894.20210 Military Affairs. Army. Army Posts. Fortifications. Defenses. Military Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., Military Activities Of Japan In America. Pan-America Including Gathering Of Information. Espionage. Propaga (File 1466)
ID: 894.20210-1466   Pages: 535   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.20210-military-affairs-army-5
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Conference between Japanese Ambas-ador to Argentina and Japanese
Ambassador in Chile:
Information from confidentialssource regarding -. Investigate
and report concerning same.
894.20210/18
185
For the original paper from which reference is taken
185
See
Te1.$707.10pm
(Despatah, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
Dated .Jume-19.-1943
Chile
To
File No. 701.942/40
20210
U. S. GOVERNNENT PRINTING OFFICE 1-1540

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.95)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Japanese Ambassador in Santiago:
Investigation doesnot leave any reason to believe - had
conference with Japanese Ambassador to Argentina.
894.20210/186
186
For the original paper from which reference is taken
Tel #1029,4pm
See
(Despatah, telegram, instruction, letter, eta.)
Dated
June 23, 1942
From
Chile(Bowers)
Confidential File
xxxx
894.20210
File No.
701.9425/41
Contidential File
1-1540
oo

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 15, 1942
In Lima'a despatch no. 4138 of June 24,
1942, there is forwarded a memorandum contain-
ing an account of a visit by Mr. Emmerson and
a member of the Chinese Legation staff to
southern Peru, where they made a detailed sur-
vey of Japanese establishments and activities.
Everywhere they went they got into touch with
representatives of the Chinese community who
assisted them with information. The memorandum
contains detailed information regarding the
Japanese in each community visited. It was
found in some places, notably Arequipa, the
second city of Peru, that the Japanese com-
munity, though small, was powerful. In a
number of places the Japanese appear to enjoy
complete freedom to carry on business, hunt,
fish and travel. It is interesting to note
that in some places there were a considerable
number of Okinawans (Loochoo Islanders), who
appeared to stand aloof from other Japanese.
Chinese groups promised to keep the visi tors
from Lima informed of future activities of the
Japanese.
894:20210/187
FE:BaXlantine:MHP

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.97)
EMBASSY OF THE
THE AMEHICAN
DEPA
UNITED STATES OF
Lima, June 24, 1942.
No. 4138
Subject: Investigation of Japanese Activities
in Southern Peru.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
CJUL 1 4 1942
cop
1942
Amen of State
Josu.
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
20210/187
For Distribution
yes
no
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
JUL 20.1942
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's strictly
confidential instruction no. 1268/of May 18, 1942 trans-
Affairs, Dr. T. V. Soong, to the Chinese Minister in
Lima, and to the Embassy's despatches no. 3790-of May 23,
1942 and no. 3795 of May 25, 1942 which desoribed the 0o-
operative efforts of the Chinese Legation in Lima and
the Embassy in the investigation of Japanese aqtivities
in Peru, and to enclose a memorandum on the Japanese
colonies in several cities in southern Peru, recently
FILED
visit

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
visited by Mr. George Tsung-Yuan Woo, private seoretary
to the Chinese Minister, and Mr. Emmerson of the
Embassy staff.
Respectfully yours,
Ierton
Jefferson Patterson
Chargé d'Affaires a.i.
JKE.ml
820.02
Enclosures:
Memorandum of trip to southern Peru.
No. 1 Arequipa
No. 2 Nasca
No. 3 Ica
No. 4 Pisco
No. 5 San Vicente de Cañete
No. 6 Chincha Alta
3
B.
3 canbone eon
7-9-42
93

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
Lima, June 24, 1942.
MEMORANDUM
Mr. Woo and I left Lima by Panagra plane on Monday,
June 1, at 2:45 p.m., and arrived at Arequipa at 6 oclock.
Among the passengers on the plane were Dr. and Mrs. Robert
Burnett Hall. Dr. Hall of the University of Michigan has
been in Peru several months and is making a study of the
Japanese problem in South America. He is reporting to the
Office of the Coordinator of Information.
The Chinese Minister had written letters to the heads
of Chinese organizations in each of the cities we planned
to visit and had also provided us with letter of introduc-
tion to the Chinese Vice Consuls who, in each instance, were
Peruvian citizens. Everywhere we were received with en-
thusiastic cordiality. In fact, we believe that, aside from
the value of the information obtained with regard to the
Japanese colonies in southern Peru, the trip was extremely
worth while as a good will tour. The Chinese were pleased
to be visited by representatives of their own and the American
Government travelling together. The trip may even have made
them more conscious of their position as Chinese and of the
part they can play in the cause of the United Nations.
In Arequipa we met representative leaders of the
Chinese colony at the meeting hall of the Kuomintang on the
evening of Monday, June 1, and again at a hotel managed by
the President of the Chinese Society on the evening of
June 2. About 10 Chinese were present at the first meeting.
Using the questionnaire which had been prepared by the
Auxiliary Section and translated into Chinese (copy enclosed
with Embassy's despatch no. 3790 of May 23, 1942), Mr. Woo
interviewed the leaders of the colony and a general discussion
was held, in both Spanish and Cantonese. As stated in a
later section of the memorandum, the Chinese in Arequipa were
of the opinion that the Japanese colony there was small in
numbers but important because of the weelth and position of
its members.
During the day of June 1, we called on Dr. Alberto
Fuentes Llaguno, Vice Consul for China. Dr. Fuentes is a
leading citizen of Arequipa and, in addition to his private
law practice, is Vice President of the University, and Presi-
dent of the Writers and Artists Club. His wife is a niece
of President Prado. The American Vice Consul in Arequipa,
Mr. Dwyer, later accompanied us to call upon Mr. Blaisdeli,
the American manager of the Southern Railway of Peru, and
Mr. Mier y Teran, Chief of Investigation for Southern Peru.
We were not entirely convinned by Mr. Mier y Teran's assur-
anoes that there was no Japanese problem in Arequipa.
Dr. Hall was present at our meeting with the Chinese
on the evening of June 2. The leaders or the colony assured
us of their full cooperation and their intention to keep us
informed of the activities of the Japanese in Arequipa.
We boarded a Fawcett plane for Nasca at 10:30 on the
morning of June 3. The small eight-passenger plane makes
stops
ile

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
stops at four points in the course of a scheduled 2 hour
journey. Two of these landings, Atico and Chala, are made
on the beach as there are no airport facilities. The fog
hugs the coast at this time of the year and at one point
in the flight we found ourselves low above the water with
visibility xtremely poor. We arrived at Nasca shortly
after l oclock.
The Chinese Vice Consul in Nasca, Mr. Agustin Bocanegra,
is at the same time mayor of the town, publisher of the bi-
weekly newspaper, proprietor of a store and owner of a
cotton plantation. Aithough we had said we wished to in-
terview only a few of the leaders of the Chinese colony, more
than 25 Chinese gathered at the Kuomintang Hall to greet us.
The Vice Consul, Mr. Bocanegra, presided and toasts were
drunk to the success of the democratic cause. It was dis-
covered that the Japanese colony in Nasca is small and of
little importance. The night was spent at the guest house
of the gold mine, Sol de Oro, a few miles from the town of
Nasca. Two American families live at the mine, Mr. Meissner,
superintendent, and Mr. Graff, geologist. The mine is ex-
pected to be worked out and to close within a year. A site
for a new mine has already been selected and prepared. The
world situation has, of course, made uncertain the future
of gold mining.
On the morning of June 4, we left by automobile for
Ica, approximately 85 miles northwest. The road, of ccm-
paratively recent construction, is excellent. It passes
the various haciendas located in the slim, green valleys
of the tributaries of the Rio Grande. The principal ones
are El Ingenio and Palpa.
June 4 was a religious festival and the places of busi-
ness in Ica were closed. We interviewed the President of
the Chinese Society and he supplied us with a written re-
port on the activities of the Japanese colony, and a list
of the Japanese residents. The night was spent at the Gran
Hotel Salvatierra at the springs resort of Huacachina.
The trip to Pisco requires about two hours and is
made over a good road. A car was provided for our use by
the Chinese Society or Ica. In Pisco we interviewed re-
presentative members of the Chinese colony, the British
Vice Consul and the Vice Consul for China. Japanese ap-
parently enjoy complete freedom in Pisco and they travel,
hunt and fish without molestation.
The short drive from Pisco to Chincha was made in the
afternoon of June 5. At Chincha the members of the Chinese
colony extended us an especially warm welcome. The Vice
Consul for China, Mr. Luis Sanguinetti, although of Italian
descent, is thoroughly pro-democratic in his sentiments and
placed himself at our disposition during the entire time of
our visit. He has been closely associated with the Chinese
Colony, which numbers some 300 persons, for many years and
his father was Chinese Viee Consul before him. He is pro-
prietor of a noodle factory and bakery and is one of Chincha's
leading

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
eading citizens. He entertained us in his home, intro-
duced us to most of the businessmen in the town and the
following day took us in his own car to Cañete. Since our
visit he has come to Lima and. during a call on the Chinese
Minister presented him with a complete list of the Japanese
residents of Chincha, including ages, addresses and family
details, which has since been turned over to the Embassy.
Mr. Charles H. Dixon, a British resident of Chincha and
local manager of H. W. Beausire and Company, is well ac-
quainted with the officials in the community and states that
they are cooperative. He has been working with the Chief
of Police in the investigation of certain rumors concerning
Japanese activities. Mr. Sanguinetti told the Chinese
Minister that following our visit, he called upon Mr. Dixon
and offered his own cooperetion.
The Chinese Society provided transportetion to the
port of Tambo de Mora 7.4 miles away. There we interviewed
a Chinese storekeeper and obtained information regarding the
few Japanese who had had establishments in the port town.
The Chinese promised to supply any additional information
which came to his attention.
Mr. Sanguinetti and Mr. Li, president of the Anti-
Japanese Society of Chincha, accompanied us to San Vicente
de Caete on Saturday afternoon, June 6. The leaders of
the various Chinese societies met us at the Kuomintang Hall
and a discussion wes held on the subject of Japanese acti-
vities in the district. These Chinese were intelligent heads
of businesses in San Vicente and were genuinely interested
in giving us whet information they could. They insisted that
we should visit both the port Cerro Azul and Puerto Fiel, a
beach where the Japanese frequently assemble. Although we
had expected to return to Lima on Saturday, they were ex-
tremely solicitous that we make these trips and that we re-
main for a dinner they had prepared for Saturday evening.
The trip to Puerto Fiel is described in a later part of this
memorandum. Cerro Azul is 8 miles from San Vicente and
appears to be an infrequently used port. There were, how-
ever, numerous piled up bales of cotton awaiting shipment.
A Chinese was interviewed there who promised to cooperate
with the Chinese Society in San Vicente in the investigation
and reporting of Japanese activities.
The Japanese population in Cañete Valley is the largest
in any district visited and the Chinese here were found to
be more enthusiastic and more able to make investigations
than those in any other city. They promised to make periodic
reports to Lima and twice since our return have called on
the Chinese Legation to leave material which they have pre-
pared. One of the officers in the Chinese Society is a
photographer and has supplied numerous photographs of
Japanese citizens in the community.
We returned to Lima, Sunday afternoon, June 7, having
been absent exactly a week and having visited six communi-
ties.
It

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
-4 -
It is true that many Chinese in Peru have been in-
different to political problems end have even continued
to trade with Japanese since the Sino-Japanese hostilities
began in 1937. However, the entry of the United States into
war with Japan was a vitelizing shock to Chinese patriotism.
The Chinese are proud that the United States is at last
fighting for and with them and they are more politically con-
scious than ever before. A young Chinese born in Peru told
me that until December ? Chinese nisei in Peru knew little
and cared less for their Chinese heritage. Now, he said,
they are proud to be Chinese and are intensely interested in
the progress of the war. I believe that trips of this sort
will utilize this force and will contribute materially to
the investigation and control of the Japanese problem in
Peru.
Incidentally, I wish to mention particularly the tire-
less and intelligent efforts of Mr. Woo of the Chinese
Legation. His excellent knowledge not only of Cantonese but
of Spanish, and his tact, personality and long experience in
Peru contributed much to the success of these investigations.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.98)
nclosure no. 1 to Despatch no. 4138, June 24, 1942.
American Embassy, Lima, Peru.
AREQUIPA
Population Statisticsx
White Mixed.......
56,173
Indian.
5,696
Negro.
72
Not Stated.
90
Estimated Japanese.
132
Estimated Chinese.
60
TOTAL.
62,223
7
Persons Interviewed
Cam Kuan Wun, President, Chinese Society of Arenuipa
1
Siu Yau, President, Anti-Japanese Socicty
0
Alfonso Lau Lim
Fernando Whu
8
Louis S. Blaisdell,(American), Manager,Ferrocarriles
del Sur del Perú.
Dr. Alberto Fuentes Llaguno, (Peruvian)
Vice Consul for China.
M. Mier y Teran, (Peruvian), Sub-inspector Jefe
de Investigaciones de la Region del Sur.
Mr. Tuss, (American), retired mining engineer.
x
The population statistics tabulated for cach of the cities
visited have been taken from the Extracto Estadistico del
Perú and are the 1940 census figures. Unfortunately the
census does not separate Japanese and Chinese but merely
gives a total called "amarilla" or "yellow race". The
Chinese figures have been obtained from the Chinese
Legation and the differenoe between these and the total
"amarilla" census figure has been called Japanese. In
some instances these figures are contr-dictory to estimates
made by persons interviewed. At best they are an approxi-
mation and account must be taken of the fallibility of
census takers, the inconsistent counting of second-genera-
tion Chinese and Japanese and the changes which have
tial File
occurred since 1940.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
AREQUIPA
The Chief of Investigation for Southern Peru stated that
there are 39 Japanese heads of families in Arequipa. Chinese
estimated the total number of Japanese at from 60 to 70.
The Japenese colony in Arequipa is smll but its members
are substantial business meln. On one street in the tom
were counted 7 Japanese establishments, principally bazaers
and general dry goods stores. These stores were well
stocked with merchandse and presented a prosperous appear-
ance. Funuya and Company, the largest Japanese importers in
Arequipa, are estimated to have made profits amounting to
s/500,000 1n 1941.
with the exception of two or three Okinawans, the
Japanese colony in Arequipa originates from Japan proper.
Some of the most successful business men came to Arequipe
from Madre de Dios department at the time the Peruvian
rubber market collapsed. Many Japanese had originally been
brought to Madre de Dios to work on the rubber plantations
there; wheu they became unemployed, some returned to Japen,
others migrated to other parts of Peru, and : few remained
in Puerto Maldonado and its vicinity where they raise tobacco
and mmnufacture panchos, boots, and other articles from
rubber.
There was unanimity of opinion among persons inter-
viewed in Arequipa--and these included the Manager of the
railroad, an American, the leaders of the Chinese colouy,
an American mining engineer, and the Chief of Iuvestigation
for Southern Poru--as to the most important and potextially
dangerous Japanese in the city. He is Yoshihisa Muto, an
architect, electrical engineer, and proprietor of dn
electrical supply store. Muto has lived in Peru more than
20 years; he has been in Arequipa 5 years. He was electrical
engineer with the Santo Domingo Mining Company. He is a
member of the Rotary and Jockey Clubs and is said to have a
wide circle of Peruvian friends. He is believed to be a
captain in the Japanese Army. He owns land in a Goverment
project called "Irigacion Silva". His office is in the same
buiiding as the British Cousulate. At one time Muto 1s said
to have approached the Chinese in Arequipe with e plan for
forming a joint Chinese-Japanese Society. He is believed to
possess detailed maps of Peru, especially the coastal re-
gion. He was seen frequently iu compeny with Jepanese from
the vessels which used to call at Mollondo.
Other propinent Japanese are as follows:
Luis Puzuxe. As stated above, Furuya and Company is
the largest Japanese importer in Arequipa. They sell mer-
chandise to Peruvian and Japanese stores.
Oktmake. Thie man is reported to be an officer in the
Japeanose Aray. His firm, a basear, has now been transferred
to

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.97)
to a Peruvian pamed Fernendes. This transfer was effected
by Anibal Fepbandes, a lawyer and a member of the same
family. The Japanese Society has held meetings in Okinaka's
storo.
Sal1 Hermpos. This firm operates stores in Arequipe,
Cusco, andollendo. The Saiki brothers are maturalized
Peruvians and they advertise prominently in Arequipa news-
papers that their establishmont is Peruvian.
Shimisu. This Japanese owned a watch repair shop in
Arequiph which he has now transferred to a Peruvian. He
owns a farm near Vitor, in the vicinity of the Peruvian Army
Airport.
The Japanese have not ma inta ined a school in Arequipa.
Their meetings are held in various stores and offices. At
present they us• Furuye's building.
In Pebruary, 194l, a Japanese vessel, the Aspita Maru,
was allegedly grounded near Mollaido, at a point 25 miles
north of the mouth of the River Tambo. The captain was well
acquainted with the coast and many people express doubts
that the ship actually ran aground. The vessel remaived
five months during which time it is saic that the officers
made detailed studies of the topography of the region. They
were seen iry Arequipa, often in the company of Y. Muto.
M. Mier y Teran, sub-inspector Jefe de Investigaciones
de la Region del Sur, stated in en interview that he had com-
plete information on every Axis National in Arequipe and the
southern district, all of which had been duly reported to
Lime. He showed us the list of German Mationals with police
reports on each but regretted that the Japenese list was at
the moment in the safe of his private home and not aveilable!
Mier y Teran is said to be close to the President and to
wield considerable influence in Peruvien official cireles.
He was deseribed by one person as a "go-getter" who had pull
with the Government because of his energetic investigation
of Apre activities. He expressed confidence that the
Japanese were effectively controlled but admitted that Muto
was a dangerous individual. Some person in Arequipe suggested
that Mier y Teran had not been immune to monetary persuasion
and that he was protecting Muto.x
The Japanese colony in Arequipa is a characteristically
solid, insulated group. However, it conteins no laborers
and no Japanese or Okinawans of the coolie class. Its mem-
bers are intelligent business men. For this reason, it
forms a particularly dangerous element in the community.
IIn this commection, it is interesting to note that al-
though en the Embassy's list of Japanese reeommended
to the Peruviem Government for expulsion, Mete did met
depart om the Shawmee on Jane 1s. Purthermore, a rank-
ing offieer of the Bareau of Investigatiom, several
days before the Smawmes's arrival, save orders by tele-
phome from my office that Mato be mmomed to Lime.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.94)
Inclosure no. 2 to Despetch no.4138 - June 24, 1942
American Embassy, Lima, Peru.
NASCA
Population Statisties
Indian.
2,435
310
Not Stated.
2
Bstimated Japanese...
8
Estimated Chinese...
100
4.20210
TOTAL.
...8,523
Porsons Intervieved
Li Yu Yi, President, Chinese Society
8
Agustin Bocanegra (Peruvian), Conealar
2
Agent for Chine, Mayor of Masee.
Everett Graff (Americen), Geologist,
Sol de Oro Gold Mine.
R. Meisener (American), Sol de Oro Gold Mime.
Guillermo de la Borda (Peruvian), heeienda
owner.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
Nasca, one of the numerous valley towns of Peru, de-
pends upon water for life. Deficiency of water in the past
few years has seriously injured the cotton crop. The town
is awaiting the realisation of an irrigation project which
will bring renewed fertility to the valley.
There are no more than seven Japanese families in
Nasce. Or these, two are barbers, two operate combination
barber shops and basears, one is a mechanic, one a hotel
proprietor, and the other a restaurant keeper. Their names
follow:
Javier Toygsato - a barber.
Martin Tobosato, Hotel Central, Arica.
Pension/and restaurant.
Eduardo Inoguichi, Calle Limm.
Barber and besear.
Masay Subara - a mechenic.
José Asgto - restaurant.
Jos& Egbren and daughter, Josefina Egyren,
Calle Limm, barber y basaar.
The Japanese in Nasca have not been active. They have
long resided in the community and because of their small
numbers and relative inconsequence as individuals are not
believed to constitute an important danger.
In conversations with the Mayor of Masca, and with
Mr. Everett Graff, an American goologist at the mine, Sol
de Oro, and Mr. Guillermo de la Borde, one of the most pro-
minent haciende owners in the valley, the strategic import-
anee of Puerto Lomms and San Nicholas Bay was pointed out.
Both Germans and British submarines are said to heve used
Sen Wicholas Bay in World War I., and the terrain is waid
to be highly favorable to landing operat ions.
No Japanese are known to be living in Puerto Lomas.
Japanese vessele mlled at this port frequently before the
outbreak of war. Masay Suhara, the Japanese mechanie in
Nasce, is the only Japanese known to have visited these
ships while they were in port.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure no. 3 to Despatch no. 4138, June 24, 1942.
American Embassy - Lima, Peru.
ICA
Population Statistics
White Mired........
..21,993
Indian.
3,570
Negro.
402
8
Estimated Japanese....
76
Estimmted Chinese....
407
TOTAL.
26,456
Persops Intorviowed
Augusto Fox Can, Presidont, Chinese Society.
Confidential File

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.95)
- 2 -
The Sub-prefect of Ica Province bas requested the
Chinese Colony to cooperate with him in the investigation
of Japanese activities. This is the first imstance of this
nature which has come to our attention. The President of
the Chinese Association stated that for three months, pur-
suant to the Sub-prefect's request, the Chinese bave been
making secret inquiries regarding the ectivities of
Japanese. Twice weekly they send emissaries to the various
haciondas surrounding Ica.
According to Chinese informants, there are approxi-
mately 35 Japanese heads of families in Ica and 20 nisei,
or Peruvian born Japanese. These are ell small merchants
and employees. There are no Japanese in the community of
substantial means. 70% of the Japenese residents are
Okinewans; there are seferal Koreans. The following are
the names of the Japapese businessmen in Ica. The most
important are G. Higashide, leader of the colony and Ysidro
Yshfdsu, proprietor or the largest store.
xBasaar
J. Matayoshi
G. Higeshide
J. Majayoshi
Ysigro Yshidsu
Bagar Tayama
Grocery
Jose Tanope
Jose Muchisaqui
Jose Katuquia
Santeago Kunoqu1
Augusto Murakame
K. Yapashido
Confectionary
G. Kamamoto
Restaurant
J. Yapashido
Jiga.
Pedro Higa
J. S1paga
K. Yapano
s. Mighimoto
0. Bigy
Barber
T. Kapbo
Mote: In addition there are five barbers end ome earpenter.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.97)
-3 -
The Japanese operate a school which has an attendance
of some 30 pupils. The Japanese Association hes no fixed
place of meeting at the present time. Gatherings are held
in private homes and stores. As is true in all Japanese
communities, Tokyo radio is heard nightly.
The Japanese in Ice do not comment on the war and
there has been no noticeable activity among them since the
beginning of hostilities between Japan and the United
States. They have few relations with Peruvians or other
foreigners. The fact that the me jority are Okinawans of
little education and small financial means might suggest
that this colony is less dangerous than mny others in
Peru. Government authorities apparently exercise some sur-
veillance over the Japanese. However, there seem to be
pro-Axis elements among the population and there have been
unsubstantiated reports of pro-Axis activities both in Ica
and Huacachina, the springs resort a few miles out of town.
These are being further investigated.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
Emclosure no. 4 to Despatch no.4138 , June 24 1942.
American Embassy, Lima, Peru.
PISCO
Population Statistics
White Mixed.......
15,713
Indian.
2,877
Negro
1,241
Not Stated...
17
Estimated Japanese...
180
Estimated Chinese.....
280
894.20210
TOTAL.
20,308
Persons Interviewed
187
Ku Yun, President, Chinese Society
Luis Pun Chin, President, Anti-Japanese Society
Benjamin Sasieta (Peruvian), Consular Agent
for China.
B. Balshaw (British), Vice Consul for Great
Britein.
Confidential File

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.98)
一 2 -
Chinese informants estimated the Japanese population
at 30 heads of families. The British Vice Consul placed
the total figure between 60 and 70.
The Japanese in Pisco are shopkeepers with the ex-
ception of two cotton farmers in the vicinity of towm who
work land of approximately 7 fanegadas each (1 fanegada =
7.4 acres). Seven Japanese business establishments are
found on one street, the Calle Marques de la Mancera. The
leader of the Japanese, who is the wealthiest and most
prominent business man, is Juan Yapamoto, who operates a
wholesale establishment on the Calle Independencia. He was
formerly President of the Japanese Association. Second in
importance is Juan Minemoto, proprietor of a watch repair
shop on Calle Comerci and now President of the Japanese
Association. There are two Japanese shops neer the port
of Piseo. Only two of the Japanese in Pisco are seid to
be Okinawans.
The Jepanese school is functioning with an enrollment
of some 30 pup1ls. Before December 7, 194l, the Japanese
held meetings in their school building. Since that time,
meetings have been held in various homes and stores. At
present the Japanese are said to meet in a Japanese
restaurant on Calle Marques de la Mancera. They assemble
nightly at ll oclock, presumably to listen to Radio Tokyo.
Japanese possess fishing licenses and fish on Sundays
and holidays without restriction or molestation. Further-
more, Japanese are known to own hunting guns and ammunition.
On April 30, the birthday of the Emperor of Japan, Japanese
left Pisco in seven automobiles and were absent for three
days. Four of them carried hunting guns and it is believed
they went to a nearby mcienda, having bribed the authorities
to obtain permission. On the same day ten other Japanese
came in to Pisco to celorate the Emperor's Birthday.
Japanese shops in Pisco appear to be well stocked with
merchandise and they are not believed to suffer particularly
from the restrictions of the Proclaimed List. They ere
said to buy particylarly from the Peruvian firms Papiso &
Company and E. Vargas and Company. There are also  number
of "Turkish" merchants in Pisco who deal with the Japanese.
Daring the months of September, October, and Movember,
1941, Japanese vessels called at the part or Pisco as often
as once a week. A Japanese named Tajate visited each one
of these ships. The British Vice Cohsul protested to the
authorities against these repeated and conspieuous visits
and Takate was not permitted to board the last two or three
ships which came to Pisco.
The Mayor of Pisco is believed to hold pro-Axis
sympathies,although the Sub-prefect of the province is
deseribed as favorable to the Umited Mationa. No special
preeautions appeer to be taken by the govermmental authorities
In surveillamee of Axis activities and the Japanese are free
and unrestricted in their movements.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure no. 5 to Despatch no. 4139 June 24, 1949.
American Embassy, Lima, Poru.
SAN VICENTE DE CANETE
Population Statistics
White Mixed...........
7,008
Indian.
 2,959
Negro,
381
Not Stated.
7
Estimated Japanese.....
188
Estimated Chinese....
239
TOTAL.
10,782
Persons Interviowed
7
Sun Cam Yuan, President, Kmomintang
Liu Ki, President, Anti-Japanese Society
Wong Sie Kun, Prosident, Chinese Society
fidential

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
One of the earliest Japanese settlements in Peru was
in Cañete Valley. The first Japanese school was established
in Santa Barbara in 1908. The Japanese population in
Cañete Valley 1s said to have reached 10,O00 some twenty
years ago. Most of these Japanese were employed in a
British sugar refinery. When this concern went bankrupt,
many of the Japanese returned to Japan and others moved to
various parts of Peru. The Chinese estimate the present
Japanese population in the valley to be 12o0. Towns with
the largest mumbers of Japanese are San Vicente, San Luis,
Imperial and Lunahuand. La Victoria is a Japanese hacienda.
The president of the Japanese Association of Cañete and
the owner of the haclenda La victoria was Hatsuso (Pedro)
Taghibene who was expelled by the Peruvian Government and
who departed on the SS Shawnee, June 15. Important Japanese
who will now direct the activities of the colony are T.
Mishima, Secretary of the Japanese Assoclation, and Kenso
Watanaba, Treasurer. Other Japanese cited as dangerous are
the following:
Sato. This man is a radio operator and is proprietor
of an cloctrical equipment store.
ada. A barber and Director of the Japanese Associa-
tions h Ts described as a fanatic.
Hayame. The proprietor of a general store whd is a
Director of the Japanese Associat ion.
Magda. This mn operates a store in the Hacienda
Unanue, Is said to be well educated and to be in cbarge of
Japanese propaganda.
Lato. A barber in Lunahuand who bought serap iron for
shipmodt to Japan and who invariably weut on board Japanese
vessels calling at the port (Cerro Asul).
Yguéni. In Imperial is said to be a Japanese army
ofricor.
Francisco Tukotaki. In San Vicente; a machine gumer.
Besides the farmers on the haciendas, the Japanese in
Cafete Valley carry on the usual occupations in mhich they
are engaged in other districts in Peru: storekeepers,
barbers, watch makers. Only l0% of the population is esti-
mated to be of Okinawan origin. Most of these are truck
farmers; mny of them live in San Luis. Chinese were of the
opinion that these Loochoo islanders were loyal Japanese,
although socially discriminated against by their cempatriots.
It wes remarked that Okimawans sat apart at Japanese meetings.
o

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
No collaboration between Japanese and other Axis
nationals has been noted in Cañete. One German, José
Esenwange, was cited as an ardent Nazi who at the same
time is a radio technician employed by the electric power
company. He is also a chemist.
The attitude of the general population in the Cañete
district was characterised as sympathetic toward the Axis.
Investigation and control of Japanese activities is said
not to extend beyond the requirement of permits for travel,
and these are easily obtaimmble.
The Japanese seem to have suffered little from black
list restrictions. They buy and sell merchandise without
difficulty.
The Chinese interviewed in Cafete were the most en-
thusiastic of any group met during the course of the trip.
They feel that the Japanese in the valley, because of
their numbers, location and influence, are a dangerous
•lement and they are ready to cooperate in the investiga-
tion of Japanese activities to the best of their ability.
They urged us to visit both the port of Cerro Asul and a
beach called Puerto Fiel where the Japanese frequently
hold meetings. Puerto Fiel is reached from San Vicente de
Cañete in about an hour and a halr by automobile over a
very bad road which passes near Hacienda Unanue and
Hacienda Santa Barbara, and through the towns of San Luis
and Imperial. As it nears the beach, the road becomes
mase wheel tracks in the sand. The beach 1s mmooth and is
protected by cliffs which run to the sea on both sides.
The water is said to be quite deep and to provide ample
accommodation for submarines. The Japanese hire trucks
and come in groups of 30 or 40 to this secluded spot.
Since our return, representatives of the Chinese
Society have mde two trips to Lime and have furnished
lists and photographs of prominent Japanese in Cañete
Valley. They have promised to supply further information.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 6 to Despatch no. 4138, June 24, 1942.
American Embassy, Lima, Peru.
CHINCHA ALTA
Population Ststistics
White Mixed..........
7,822
Indian.
15,018
Negro.
600
Not Stated...
54
Estimated Japanese..
80
894.20210
Estimated Chinese
269
TOTAL.
23,843
x 113 including women and children. Sourceis list ob-
tained from Prefect.
Persons Interviewed
7
Li Kam Ho, President, Chinese Society
Luis Sanguinetti, (Peruvian), Vice Consul
for China.
Charles H. Dixon (British), Representative
of H. W. Beausire and Company.
Lieutonant Bustamante, Chief of Poliee.
Confidential File

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2-
The Japanese in Chinche are shopkeepers living in the
town. There are severel mechanics and one carpenter. The
leader of the Japanese colony in Chincha is K. Mupakata,
proprietor of two general stores. He is said to be a
captain in the Japanese army. He is recognised in the
district as the most influential of the Japanese. His
name was mentioned by persons interviewed in Pisco. Al-
though he formerly made frequent trips to Lime, the police
now refuse him permission.
There are ten or more Okinawans in the Japanese colony.
These attend Chinese moving pictures and have given money
to the Chinese cause. The Chinese in Chinche have asked
Peruvian friends to inquire why the Okinawans support
China. They replied: "We are not Japanese; we are
Okinawens."
Chincha residents think that 80% of the total popula-
tion is pro-democratic. There are no Germans in the com-
munity but a considerable number of Peruvians are of
Italian descent. One German mechanic was boycotted and left
town for this reason. The Sub-prefect is said to have re-
marked that there were still, however, certain pro-Axis
•lements among the Peruvian population of Chincha. As
nearly as could be ascertained, the authorities, provincial,
munieipel, and police, are pro-democratic in their sym-
pathies and are endeavoring to control Axis activities.
The police are at present investigating reports of a
clandestine radio transmitter operated by a Japanese on
a hacienda near Chinche.
Japanese invariably go to beaches to finm on Priday
and Sundey arternooms, when all stores in Chinche are
closed. There is a Japanese barber at the pert Tambo de
More. Many Japanese are said to come here at times when
their places of business are closed. There is some police
surveillemce. Japenese are not permitted to use beats
and the Chinese interviewed stated that Peruvian police
were on gward. There is e police station at Chimeke Baja
but not at Tambo de More. There are two Japamese farmers
in the Chinohe Baja district.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
ply refer to
894.20210/187
FW 894.20210/187
JUL 11 :342
CONFIDENTIAL
The Department of State transmits to the following
the attached information in the hope that it will be of
value:
Military Intolligonoo Divlsion
Off1oo of Naval Intolligenoo
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Enclosure:
Copy or striotly conridential despatoh no. 4138
dated June 24, 1942 from the Ameriean Embassy at
Lima, subjeot: "Investigation of Japanese Activities
in Southern Peru", with enolosures.
PS/PGB
0
guir
7-10-42
FC1 JDH1 BOA
the signed origi-
mal.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.95)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Japanese Ambascador in Santiago:
Information from confidential source regerding conference
between - end Japanese Ambassador to Argentina. Investi-
gate and report conceruing same.
894.20210/188
188
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See .... Tel.fa1l.10pm
(Deepatah, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
Dated .._June.19..1942
Argensima
To
Confidential File
701.9425/41a
File No.
Confidential
U. S. GOVERNNENT PRINTING OFFICE 1-15G0
894.20210

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.90)
CHARGE SLIP
MileNo. 894.90 210
7A/E-Boggs
ENCLOSURE
CHARGE TO—
DATE
CLERK'S INITIALS
RemArks
Hesp4190--i
189
1-7-475.W
5-2-42

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
In roply refer to
FO
894.80210/189
CONFIDENTIAL
AUG 1 1942
FW 894.20210/189
The Department of State transmits to the following
the attached information in the hope that 1t will be of
value:
Military Intelligenoe Division
Office of Naval Intelligence
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Enolosure:
Copy of atriotly conridential despatoh no. 4190 dated
July 2, 1942 from the Amerioen Embassy at Lima,
subjeot: "Investigation or Japanese Aotivities in
Huancayo and Tarma, with enolosure.
PS/PGB
A true copy
the signed origt-
not 0/r.
FC: JDH: EOA
7-3042

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.94)
AA
EMBASSY OF
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA2
.422
MIRICAN HEPUPHCS
Bo oté, Colonbia, JulAm
Subject: Harmful Effect of UniteI Press Despatches
1942  1 4 12
S
EVE
P Or
6
894.20210/190
For Distrioation
C
FILED
811.9/221
20194
2
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
167
92
894.20210
I have the honor to refer to the Department's telegram
of May 18,/midnight, 1942, and to the mbassy's despatches
regarding the harmful effect of the publication in Colombian
S
newspapers of United Press despatches, especially war com-
muniqués issued by the Germans and Japanese. As of possible
interest to the Department and in confirmation of the fears
which have been expressed by the Embassy, there is quoted
below in translation an anonymous letter of July 4, 1942,
from Popayán:
"May Your Excellency permit a sincere friend,
and one who admires the great nation which Your
Excellency represents before our Government, to
point out to you that each day it appears more strange
that the Associated Press (U.P.) appears to plead the
cause of Nazism, since by preference it publicizes
world

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.95)
AA
EMBASSY OF
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA2
MIRICAN REPUPICS
No.422
Bogotá, Colombia, JulART
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
Subject: Harmful Effect of United Press Despatches
942 1 1M  1
S
EED
0
3
OEPARIENT
6
For Distribation
FILED
C)
21942
The Honorable
1172
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
167
I have the honor to refer to the Department's telegram
of ay 18,/midnight, 1942, and to the mbassy's despatches
recardin the harmful effect of the publication in Colombian
newspapers of United Press despatches, especially war com-
muniqués issued by the Germans and Japanese. As of possible
interest to the Department and in confirmation of the fears
which have been expressed by the Embassy, there is quoted
below in translation an anonymous letter of July 4, 1942,
from Popayán:
"May Your Excellency permit a sincere friend,
and one who admires the great nation which Your
Excellency represents before our Government, to
point out to you that each day it appears more strang
that the Associated Press (U.P.) appears to plead the
cause of Nazism, since by preference it publicizes
world

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
world war bulletins taken from the radios of Berlin,
Rome and Tokyo, knowing, surely, how false and ex-
aggerated they are, never making a correction or
even an appropriate reservation, presenting always
in a bad light the cause of the Allies, all of which
cannot help exercising an unwholesome influence on
the innumerable radio-listeners, who cannot under-
s tand how a company domiciled in the United States
systematically disparages or depreciates the polioy
and the conduct of the war by the Allies, at the same
time as it highly praises all that has to do with
the enemies of the democracies.
I believe that Your Excellency will find these
views well founded and will believe that it is neces-
sary to correct this irregularity, which may have
tremendous repercussions.
The fact that this letter is anonymous detracts very
little from its importance in confirming the position which
has been taken by the Embassy.
Respectfully yours,
Gerald Keith
Chargé d'Affaires a.i.
In triplicate
891
AED/jvg
2

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.98)
No. 422
Bogotá, Colombia, July 8, 1942
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
Subject: Harmful Effect of United Press Despatches
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's telegram
of May 18, midnight, 1942, and to the Embassy's despatches
regarding the haraful effect of the publication in Colombian
newspapers of Uni ted Press despatohes, especially war com-
muniqués issued by the Germans and Japanese. As of possible
interest to the Department and in confirmation of the fears
which have been expressed by the Embassy, there is quoted
below in translation an anonymous letter of July 4, 1942,
from Popayán:
"May Your Excellenoy permit a sincere friend,
and one who admires the great nation which Your
Excellency represents before our Government, to
point out to you that each day it appears more strange
that the Associated Press (U.P.) appears to plead the
cause of Nasism, since by preference it publicises
world

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
world war bulletins taken from the radios of Berlin,
Rome and Tokyo, knowing, surely, how false and ex-
aggerated they are, never making a correction or
even an appropriate reservation, presenting always
in a bad light the cause of the Ailies, all of which
cannot help exercising an unwholesome influence on
the Innumerable radio-listeners, who cannot under-
s tand how a company domiciled in the United States
systematically disparages or depreciates the polioy
and the conduct of the war by the Allies, at the same
time as it highly praises ali thit has to do with
the enemies of the democracies.
I believe that Your Ixcelleney will find these
views well founded and will believe that it is neces-
sary to correct this irregulari ty, which may have
The fact that this letter is anonymous detracts very
little from its importance in confirming the position which
has been taken by the Embassy.
Respectfully yours,
Gerald Keith
Chargé d'Affaires a.i.
In triplicate
891
AED/Jvg
A true cor
the st
X

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.96)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Fishing facilities at Iquitos and Talara:
Information regarding -.
894.20210/191
191
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See .....
#3381
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
From
Peru(Norweb)
Datedkpril.15,.1942.
Toxx
894.20210
dential 
File No.
123 B 693/445
1-1540
eo

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.96)
PREPARING OFFIÓE
WILL INDIGATE WHETHER
TELEGRAM. SENT
Full rate
Cellect (Day letter
Night lstter
Department of State
Charge Department:
Full rate
Day letter
Night letter
cntal Code.
Charge to
nrased petere July, 1942
mmuNca
noow
AMERICAN CONSUL,
196
LOURENCO MARQUES (MOZAMBIQUE, AFRICA).
alc
TRIPLE PRIORITY.
113
SECRET FOR COMMANDER H. H. SMITH-HUTTON, NAVAL
ATTACHE TO AMERICAN EMBASSY, TOKYO, ARRIVING ON ASAMA MARI.
QUOTE From a most secret source Department is
informed that Rosero, Chilean Consul in Yokohama, has been
1
transferred to Lima and is now on the Asama Maru whence he
will be transferred to the Gripsholm for return to Amerioa.
He 1s said to be carrying with him a consignment of seores
war pictures and Leica film negatives. It is desired that
at the earliest possible opportunity during the return
voyage of the Gripsholm,. under conditions insuring Rosero
being unaware thereof, his effeots be subjeoted to the most
thorough searoh and the material in question confisoated
deposited in the captain's safe until arrival in New York,
when the material will be called for by an acoredited agomt
of the Department.
For the foregoing operation it is suggested that you
enlist the assistanoe of Lioutenant Celonel G. A. Willi
Sost by pr

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.92)
PREPARINE OFPIÓE
WILL INDIOATE WHNITHER
TELEGRAM SENT
(Full rate
Collect Day letter
Might letter
Department of State
Charge Department:
Full rate
Day letter
Washington,
Night letter
Charge to
-2-
and of Sergeant Jackson, as well as any other person er
persons whom you consider entirely reliable and
specially fitted for this partioular purpose; however,
it is thought that a total of four, or at the most six,
persons would be the most suitable number for the
operation.
O.N.I. concurs and authorizes suoh action to be
taken.
UNQUOTE.
Hull
(含Q)
4
ars
FC: GAO LBH
Enstphered by
Sost by aprater

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
JG
Rio dE JanE iro
This tElEgram must bE
closEly paraphrasEd bE-
Dated August 11, 1942
forE bEing communicctEd
FROM
to anyonE.(SC)
REc'd 4:50 p.m.
SEcrEtary of State,
File
Washington.
2974, August 11, 4 pom.
3-31-48
894.20210/191
191a
FROM LIE UT COMMNDER SMITH-HUTTON
OpEration ordErEd in your 113, July 236 noon
addrEssEd to Lourenco MarquE s carriEd out. Found
threE rolls LEica nEgativEs but no (rEpEat no)
pictures. Am bringing films with mE.
SIMMONS
1/2
NK
APR  1948
Confidential
894.20210
DCR- OID UNIT
1九0
Anal.
Ttev.
co.. ene
Cict.
e

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.96)
OFFICE OF THE
Division of
MINISTER FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
REPUBLIC OF CHINA
RELETVED
Department of State
June 24, 1942
894.20210/1
Dear Mr. Hamilton:
Dr. Soong asks me to acknowledge on his behalf
894 20210/.77
the receipt of your letter of June 18th in which you
were kind enough to forward to him two covers from
the Chinese Legation in Panema and the Chinese Consulate
93
General in Manague.
We thank you for your kind assistance in the
matter.
I am,
Yours sincerely,
ujis.
Secretary to
PS/RIR
DR. T. V. SOONG
JUN 2 5 1942
FILED
Mr. Maxwell M. Hamilton
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
/178-conf.
894.20210
2

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.95)
Nu: Bacd
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 4477
Lima, August 5, 1942
Subject: Cooperation by the Chinese Legation.
liviaton of
AP AS AFAS
AUG 26 194
Depertmeer of Srese
RLS
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
8/19/42
For Distribltion
16.1 51942
fb
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
171 C..
Sir:
/175206
In reference to the Department's strictly con-
fidential instruction No. 1268 of May 18, 1942, en-
closing an instruction from the Chinese Minister of
Foreign Affairs to the Chinese Minister to Peru, and
in reference to this Embassy's acknowledgment in
despatch No. 3795/May 25, 1942, file No, 701, I
have the honor to suggest that the Department ex-
press to the Chinese Minister of Foreign Affairs
appreciation for the generous cooperation which the
SEP 18 1942
Chinese Legation is according this Embassy in pur-
suance of the instruction.
The Chinese Minister to Peru has continually made
good his offer to extend to the Embassy the facilities
of the Legation, and Mr. George Tsung-Yuan Woo of his
staff has devoted literally weeks Of his full time to
trips throughout Peru accompanying officers of this
Embassy and in other ways also has been most helpful.
Mr. Woo, whose father before him was in the Chinese
diplomatic service, was born in Peru, sohooled in the
United States, and has made a point of learning Cantonese.
His high inteiligence, diligence, and marked linguistic
talent have been of immeasurable service in this co-
PS/RIR
operative work, which has by consequence been very
suocessfully performed.
Respeotfully yours,
701-Chine (820.02-Japan)

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.96)
THE FOREIGN SERVIC
OF THE
AUG 2 0 1942
UNITED STATES OF AMEFICA
THE AMEIC LICS
DEPARTMENT OFESTATE
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 4477
Lima, August 5, 1942
Subject: Cooperation by the Chinese Legatipn.
Divisio
fivision of
FAR EASTERH AFFAIRS
AUG 26 1942
KLS
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
8/19/42
Fer Distribrtion
.19
fb
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
In reference to the Department's strictly con-
fidential instruction No. 1268 of May 18, 1942, en-
closing an instruction from the Chinese Minister of
Foreign Affairs to the Chinese Minister to Peru, and
in rference to this Embassy's acknowledgment in
despatch No. 3795/May 25, 1942, file No, 701, I
have the honor to suggest that the Department ex-
press to the Chinese Minister of Foreign Affairs
appreciation for the generous cooperation which the
SEP 18 1942
Chinese Legation is according this Embassy in pur-
suance of the instruction.
The Chinese Minister to Peru has contiuually made
good his offer to extend to the Embassy the facilities
of the Legation, and Mr. George Tsung-Yuan Woo of his
staff has devoted literally weeks f his full time to
trips throughout Peru accompanying officers of this
Embassy and in other ways also has been most helpful.
Mr. Woo, whose father before him was in the Chinese
diplomatic service, was born in Peru, sohooled in the
United States, and has made a point of learning Cantonese.
His high intelligence, diligence, and marked linguistic
talent have been of immeasurable service in this co-
PS/RI
operative work, which has by consequence been very
successfully performed.
Respectfully yours,
R.L Nourb
R! Henty 'Norweb
701-Chine (820.02-Japan)
X
CC:fh

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
AUG 21 1942
In reply refer to
CONFIDENTIAL
The Department of State transm1ts to the following
the attached information in the hope that 1t will be of
value:
4.2021B/195
Military Intelligenoe Division
 Office of Naval Intelligenoe
 Federal Bureau of Investigation
molosure:
Copy of strietly oonfidential despatoh no. 44f?,
dated August 5, 1942, fron the Ameriean Mmbasay.
Lima, subject: "Gooperation by the Chinese Legatlem".
Confidential File
A tree eeeg of
the olgned origt
nout. Coe
FO:JDH:OPV
8-20-42

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.92)
GRL
TELEGRAM RECEIVÉD
HRL
London
This tElegram imist bE
closEly paraphrasEd bE-
FROMPatEd Lugust 18, 1942
forE being colnunicntEd
to anyonE. (10)
Rec'd 3:15
1oth
Tue927 sunt
Secretary of St tE,
to danthago
Hasing ton.
201人
1942
any19:42
Division of
GRFW f RA
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
4016, gurt 18, P.1.
AUG26 1942
SEcret ritish gources rEport that thE JapanEsE
Department of State
894.20210/1
proposE to employ Chilean press reporters visiting
Japan for propagande urposEs upon their rEturn to
Latin america. ThE infornntion indicntes thet six
war news films are being sent by one Jorge ResE or
ROssEOT
Yokohana and now to bE transfEr: Ed to Lima as Consul.
96
9
ThreE indus trial filns arE bEing sEnt by a Person
named Abupto. ThesE persons sciled by the S
MARU vhich arrived at LourEnco rquEs on July 22.
810.202
It is also renorted that RosEro is to collect
merionn intelligencE end rEnort movenents of JapanesE
in Peru to thE JapanesE Eubassy at Santiago.
PS/RIR
WINNT
DIVISION OF
EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
KLP
AUG 28 1942
AR
DEPARTMENT OF ST
91942
D

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.95)
PRRPARING OFFICE
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TELEGRAM SENT
(full rate
Collect {Day letter
[Night letter
Charge Departmenti
Bepartment of State
Full rate
Day letter
Washington
Night letter
AUG 19 1942
Charge to
11pm
AMEMBASSY,
Deills
894.20210/196
SANTIAGO.
196
927
The follow ing is a paraphrase of a telegram of
August 18, 1942 received from the American Ambassador
at London:
I have learned from secret British sources that
certain Chilean newspapermen who have been visiting
Latin America will be employed by the Japanese Govern-
ment in Latin America. Moreover, Jorge Rese or Rosero,
a former employee of the Chilean Consulate at Yokohama
who is now to be transferred to Lima as Consul, is
reported to be carrying six war news films from Japan.
The Japanese are reported to be employing Rosero to colloet
American intelligence for the Japanese Embassy at Santiaga
and likewise to report movoments of Japanese in Peru.
Also, a person named Aburto is reported to be trans-
porting three industrial films. The Asame Maru which
arrived at Lourenco Marques on July 22 was carrying all
of these persons.
Huee
Eastahared by RAswra V
(PWB)

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.96)
894.20210
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Japanese problem in Peru:
Discusses - and possible solution
by internment of these nationals
in the United States.
894.20210
19612
196左
epm
For the original pape'r from which reference is taken
See
Memorandum
(Despatoh, telegram, instruction, letter, eta.)
Dated
September 8, 1942
From State Department
Confidential File
XRaxxx Foreign Activity
Correlation (Hanley)
File No. FW 740.00115 Pacif1c War/889
. GOVENNNT PRINTING GPFICE 1-1000

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.92)
PREPARING OFFIOE
TO TRANMIT
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
XXX sor
Full rate
TELEGRAM SENT
Collect
Day letter
CONFIDENTIAL
Night letter
RIESTRICTED
Charge Department:
Department of State
CLEAR
Full rate
PARTAIR
Day letter
Night letter
Washington,
Charge to
November 7, 1942.
9
11 So0.
894.20210/197
d before
AMEMBASSY,
RIO DE JANEIRO.
3437
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL FOR THE AMBASSADOR.
/894.20210/196aof
Department's 2432, August 26, noon, and your
n
197ct
3290, August 27, 11 p.m.
There 1s some confusion as to the name of the
Chilean Deputy mentioned in my telegram under refer-
n
020
Deputy Rafael Mopeno. Please cable whether a
Deputy of either name did in fact visit Rio the
9
last week in August.
Huls
4
S
CR
A-A
FC:GAG1MJY
RA.
ais
afpove d ly
Enciphered by
Sent by operater
M..

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.78)
CHARGE SLIP
File No.
ENCLOBURE
A TO—
INITIALS
REMADES
RM1
18C
12+1FRA
8
18718 RA famp n 4.
202 RA Bolde12
9-20-48
Call
/37yt
Ch Kusilavage 8
ad

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No。 4618
Lima, August 18, 1942
Subject: The Japanese problem in Peru;
review and recommendation.
Fie Chuy
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
Fil
1942
5
大
FC g
894.20210/1
or Dis:t1
Divisionof
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SE9-1942
DEPARTMENT OFSTATE
The Honorable,
Secretary of State,
Department of State
Washington.
Sir:
FILED
The present despatch is a review of the Japanese
problem in Peru as of August, 1942. It should be con-
sidered in the light of the detailed reports regarding
the Japanese situation in Peru which have been submitted
by the Embassy. Reference is made to despatch No. 4467,
dated August 5, 1942, File No. 820.02, and to the other
despatches mentioned therein. The conolusion arrived at
is that the most satisfactory solution would be the re-
moval to relocation points in the United States of all
persons in Peru of Japanese race. Such removal, if
feasible, is recommended by the Embassy as a long-range
objective and for immediate control and security, certain
other measures are urgently recomended.
A mass removal of Japanese from Peru is the one
permanent solution of the problem. It involves broad
questions

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
MAIL
-2-
questions of policy and serious difficulties; but for geo
graphic aud strategic reasons the Japanese problem on
the Pacific coast requires action that may be neither
possible nor necessary in the case of the Atlantic coast
areas of South America.
I. Numbers of Japanese in Peru.
The Embassy is of the opinion that there are approx-
imately 25,000 persons of Japanese race in Peru at
present (August 1942). The Peruvian census of 1940
(Extracto Estadistico del Perú 1940, published in 1942
by the Ministerio de Hacienda y Comercio) gives the
number of Japanese residing in Peru as 17,598, increased
by 8,290 persons of Japanese race born in Peru, or
a total of 25,888. Figures confidentially supplied
by the Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Departa-
mento de Nacionalización, Extranjería y Inmigración
give a total of 26,728, not much different from the
above census total; but these confidentially supplied
figures give the number of Japanese born abroad as
considerably less (13,547) and of those of Peruvian
birth as considerably more (13,181) than the census.
It is known that during several years large scale
immigration of Japanese into Peru was carried on under
cover of a traffic in purchased Peruvian passports
representing the immigrants as Peruvians, and it would
appear possible that the discrepancy of figures here
noted is in considerable part a result of this traffic
and consequent efforts to conceal the misrepresenta-
tions involved. But the total is of more importance,
and here there is approximate agreement.
Since the time of the census in 1940 it is likely
that there has been a decrease in the number of Japanese
in Peru more than offsetting the natural increase by
births. Departures from Peru of Japanese returning
to Japan are known to have been heavy in 1941. In
the years just preceding 1940 a movement had already
set in which was carrying back to Japan a number of
persons of Japanese race, chiefly under twenty years of
age, considerably in excess of the contemporaneous
immigration of Japanese into Peru. In 1942 up to
August the number of Japanese in Peru has been reduced
by the approximately five hundred repatriated by way
of the United States.
The presence of large numbers of Japanese in Peru
is a matter of the twentieth century. There were Jap-
anese immigrants by 1900 but very few. By 1908 there
was a colony of Japanese in the coastal area of Peru
a hundred miles south of Lima sufficiently large to
warrant the establishing in that year at Cafete of the
first Japanese school in Peru. Growth of the Japanese
population in the Lima area was marked by the opening
there in 1920 of a Japanese sohool which has since ex-
panded

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.98)
MAIL
一3-
panded to very large size. Japanese immigration into
Peru was at its peak in the early 1920's.
工I。
Extent of Information Concerning
Japanese Activities in Peru.
With the approach and ocourrence of war the
Embassy has given close attention to the problem of
Axis activities, including Japanese. An Auxiliary
Section was set up in the Embassy for that purpose;
some of the efforts of the offices of the Military
and Naval Attachés were devoted to aspects of the
problem; the Commercial Attaché, particularly through
the operation of the Proclaimed List, cooperates in
this work; and an agent of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation has been assigned as Legal Attaché
to the Embassy to assist. All the usual contacts of
these offices have been made use of. The combined
information assembled by the Embassy through these
various offices is great. Good cooperation exists
among them, and there will be maintained a single
filing and index system of that material which is of
common interest to them all. This will include one
single master file of names of individual enemy aliens
and suspected agents.
In the obtaining of information about the Japanese
the Embassy has profited by the cooperation of Chinese
sources in Peru. Even before the Embassy communicated
to the Chinese Minister the instruction from the
Chinese Minister of Foreign Affairs which was contained
in the Department's strictly confidential instruction
1268 of May 18, 1942, the Chinese Legation had shown
Itself fully responsive to the Embassy's suggestions.
The method whioh the Embassy has found most productive
has been aotually to visit and interview leading
Chinese throughout the country, accompanied by an official
of the Chinese Legation. Following out this procedure
Secretaries Coville and Emmerson have together visited
all the points of principal interest, as regards
Japanese activities, throughout the coastal region of
Peru north of Lima, as well as the oentral area in
the Andes; and Mr. Emmerson, before Mr. Coville's
arrival, similarly traveled through the coastal region
south of Lima. No such visits have so far been made
to the trans-Andean parts of Peru in the Amazon Basin,
although two informants in this region are preparing
reports for the Embassy. The Consulate at Iquitos
also is reporting to the Embassy regarding the Japanese
situation in that district. There are Japanese who
reside in the vicinity of Iquitos and reports indicate
that a Japanese communication system may operate between
Peru and Brazil via the Iquitos area. This matter is
being investigated further.
One fruit of the cooperation of the Chinese is
that the Embassy now possesses, or shortly will possess,
a fairly complete name-by-name list of the Japanese
1n

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
一4-
in Peru outside the Lima area itself. For the
Lima area the Embassy possesses a photostat of a list
containing the names of some six thousand Japanese,
which list was originally compiled by the Japanese
association in connection with a voluntary offer by
the association to collect on behalf of the Peruvian
authorities the tax required for the registration
of aliens. But the number of Japanese in the Lima
area far exceeds six thousand.. The 1940 census, in
giving the distribution throughout the country of
the total of 17,598 Japanese residents of Peru,
places 13,557 (77%) in Lima and 1,996 (11%) in Callao.
Presumably the Peruvian-born population of Japanese
race is likewise concentrated principally in that
area. The work involved in the Lima area naturally
is much greater than for the remainder of Peru.
Visits to localities throughout Peru have
proven that assurances given to tho Embassy by the
Peruvian Government with regard to restrictions on
Japanese are not being enforced by the local officials.
In spite of assurances given us in Lima, (1) Japanese
in fact move about with little or no hindrance;
(2) many of them continue to reside at places from
which they are said to have been removed; (3) in
spite of regulations to the contrary, they are in
some places permitted to hunt, fish and drive automo-
biles; (4) most of the twenty-seven Japanese schools
in Peru (which in 1940 had a total enrolment reported
to be 4,256) are operating, but under restricted
conditions; and (5) most of the Japanese associations
still exist, although also operating under restricted
conditions.
III. Removal of some Japanese Already Effected.
After the United States was attacked by the
Axis powers in December, 1941, the Peruvian Government
agreed to a policy of removal of dangerous enemy aliens.
In April and June, 1942, three ships (the Etolin, Acadia,
and Shawnee) carried full lists of enemy aliens to the
United States from various of the American Republics
including Peru. Some five hundred Japanese went from
Peru on these three ships.
It was the effort of the Embassy to induce the
Peruvian Government to send on suoh ships those Japanese
whom the Embassy (on the basis of the mass informa-
tion above desoribed) considered as being the most
dangerous. This effort was only in part successful.
Great pressure and influence were brought to bear by
various persons upon the Peruvian offioials for the
exemption of many of the Japanese named by the Embassy,
and bribery no doubt played a part. Meantime the
Spanish Embassy, as representing Japanese interests,
had supplied the Peruvian Government long lists of
Japanese applicants for passage on the ships, and
the

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
MAIL
5
shemuvian r ies rplases my names on our
list by mames of volunteurs listed by the Spanish
Embessy. Furtlernore, the Peruvian Government waited
until the last moment before informing us of the list
of aliens to leave upon each sbip, thus seriously
hindering additional suggestions on our part. The
Minister of Government proved in several respects un-
cooperative. Upon the return from the United States
of President Prado there was great improvement in
Peruvian cooperation.
Unless the Peruvian Government commits itself in
advance to accept the Embassy's recommendations, further
visits of ships like the Etolin, Acadia, and Shawnee
for the purpose of removing selected lists of enemy
aliens considered by us dangerous will unquestionably
be confronted by the same complication. On the other
hand, President Prado, in view of his expressed opinions
on the Japanese problem, might be persuaded to use his
personal influence to achieve successful action. If
not, the devious channels of influence in this country
wouid operate in the direction of striking from our lists
many names, replacing them by names of other aliens who
desire to leave Peru. There are large numbers who
desire to leave. Many Japanese wish by this means to
undertake to get back to Japan whenever it may be pos-
sible. Earning a livelihood in Peru has become diffi-
cult for them. Many Japanese shopkeepers carried
largely Japanese merchandise, now impossible to obtain;
the operation of the Proclaimed List has increased
their difficulties; they sense a growing suspicious-
ness and hostility directed toward them; they are appre-
hensive of worsening future conditions.
The Peruvian officials have consistently indi-
cated a readiness to expel any enemy alien against
whom a subversive record is proven. The Embassy has of
course been unwilling to make such evidence the sole
criterion. Our selection of Japanese to propose
for removal from the country has generally and neces-
sarily been on the basis of importance in leadership
of the Japanese community. Teachers of Japanese
schools, heads of local Japanese associations, former
Army or Navy officers, leading businessmen--such indi-
viduals, we have held, are potentially dangerous re-
gardiess of police record.
The Embassy is continuing to assemble information
looking to the discovery of enemy aliens who should
be removed from Peru and is at present prepared to
submit a list of at least two hundred Japanese heads
of families who, it is known, are leaders in their
respective communities. In spite of the difficulties
in oonnection with repatriating additional numbers of
Japanese, there would be decided advantages in remov-
ing even a few hundred of the Japanese leaders who
are considered most dangerous. President Prado might
agree

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
一6
agree to such procedure as a first step in the
possible removal from Peru of the bulk of the
Japanese now resident in the country. Certainly
the psychological effect of such a step upon the
Japanese here would be extremely salutary.
IV. Permanent Considerations.
The permanently best solution of problems raised
by the presence in Peru of persons of Japanese race
requires the considering of further points. We must
weigh possibilities and probabilities both while the
war continues and in the period following the war.
Our experience is such as to prove that Japanese
emigrants always remain unabsorbed, homogeneous
communities directing their loyalty to Japan and ready
always to perform such services as Japan may call
upon them for. Such is the present attitude of the
Japanese in Peru and such, no doubt, it would continue
after the war.
Peru's location on the Pacific coast of South
America must make her always a potential source of
danger to the United States by reason of the possi-
bility of Japanese attack or even landings with the
cooperation of the Japanese residents. We are confronted
by a problem too large for Peru to handle herself,
and, in view of the probable importance of military
actions in the Pacific, too threatening for us to
ignore. This is true during the present war, and must
remain so after the war if the Japanese continue to
reside here. In the Embassy's opinion (and conversa-
tions which I have had with President Prado lead me
to believe that he is of the same view) the best
permanent solution of the danger would be to remove
all persons of Japanese race in Peru to relocation
points in the United States, there to await the same
disposition at the conclusion of the war which may be
found for similar residents of the United States who
are understood to be already assembled in relocation
centers.
Already the economy of Peru is adjusting itself,
apparently without difficulty, to constantly decreasing
economic activity by the Japanese, and it does not
appear likely that the exodus of the Japanese would
have any adverse effect which the country could not
overcome. It should also be recalled that the Japanese
have not intermarried much with non-Japanese Peruvians,
and consequently a mass removal would not be con-
fronted by the popular opposition which would be ex-
pected if family ties with Peruvians were the rule.
The Embassy advances a further reason in favor
of removal of the Japanese from Peru. It appears a
matter of certainty that the post-war course of events
in the American Republics as well as in many other
parts of the world must involve marked economic-social
changes in the direction of betterment of the condi-
tions

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.99)
XAIL
-7-
tions of the people at large. These adjustments
in Peru will be difficult. They will stand a far
better prospect of satisfactory outcome if they are
not complicated by the existence of what is now
Peru's largest alien group, industrious and thrifty
but with a low standard of living, separatist,
unassimilable, always disliked, non-democratic, and
permanently loyal to an anti-democratic state.
V. Immediate Considerations.
I believe that President Prado would like to find
a permanent solution of the Japanese problem during
his term of office. He would like to rid the country
of its large Japanese colony under some plan whereby
there would be no danger of the return to Peru of
Japanese after the war. Some of the President's
able legal advisors have pointed out, however, that
a serious question under international law would arise
if Peru were to send its Japanese residents to relo-
cation centers in the United States. Peru is not at
war with Japan and would be sending Japanese nationals
to a country which is at war with Japan. Immediate
action on the definitive solution of the Japanese
problem in Peru can not well go beyond continued
study and exchange of views with President Prado,
and an estimate of the possibility of finding sufficient
ships to transport some 25,000 persons.
Concentration of Peru's entire Japanese popula-
tion probably would not be practicable, although the
Spanish Ambassador, allegedly in order to facilitate
the representation of Japanese interests, would like
to accomplish this. It might be dangerous to concentrate
the Japanese in any larger groups than exist at present.
Furthermore, experience has shown that the venality
of Peruvian officials, poor organization, and lack
of effective control over the morements of Axis nationals
within the country probably would result in the failure
of any plan to concentrate large numbers of Japanese
in a few centers.
The Japanese problem is, however, of immediate
importance. Up to the present the Japanese have been
grimly quiet. We know that they hold the firm convic-
tion that their Emperor's forces will finally triumph,
although it must be noted that the bombing of Tokyo
was a blow to their morale. We know that they are
prepared to do their part when called upon by Japan
and that their organization is thorough centralized,
and efficient. It is the Embassy's opinion that
neither ertensive sabotage nor armed uprising is
likely unless ordered from without and synchronized
with an attaok from without. Should Japan's war
strategy diotate an attack on the west coast of South
America, then the Japanese here, in their present
status, would constitute an active danger of the grav-
est oharacter. Furthermore, the acute and ever
inoreasing

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
increasing distress caused by economic restrictions
and the application of the Government's recently
enacted expropriation decrees will not improve the
mood of Peru's Japanese. For immediate control and
security and until a permanent solution can be effect-
ed, it is recommended that we seek from the Peruvian
Government the following:
1. An agreement in principle to expel Japanese,
whether or not they are naturalized Peruvian
citizens. A number of the most prominent
leaders of the Japanese colony have escaped de
portation because of the fact that they are tech-
nically Peruvian citizens.
2. An unconditional agreement that the known
leaders of the Japanese colony now remaining in
Peru will be expelled on the first ship to be
sent to Peru. President Prado's expressed
interest in the problem should make this possible.
One ship then could be sent immediately to evacuate
these persons.
3. The removal of all Japanese from areas desig-
nated as strategic and from an area within a
specified distance from the coast. Japanese have
been evacuated from Chimbote, Casma and a few
other port cities, but often to points only a
few miles inland. Many still remain in the
coastal cities. Evacuation of Japanese from
Callao would present certain problems because
of their position in the foodstuffs business,
but satisfactory solutions could be found.
4. The establishment of relocation centers in
the interior for small groups of Japanese removed
from specified areas.
5. The closing, unconditionally, of every Japanese
school.
6. Assignment of special police to districts
where Japanese are living. They should be well
paid and should be transferred frequently, in
order to reduce the temptations of bribery.
7. A ban on possession by Japanese of short-
wave radio receiving sets.
8. Finally, the use of radio broadcasts (from
local stations,or from Amerioan stations, should
the ban on short-wave receivers not be imposed),
similar to those now direoted to Japan from the
United States, to counteract the propaganda
which Japanese in Peru hear from Tokyo and to
raise doubts in their minds about the ultimate
success of Japan's Great Asia War. While no
propaganda is going to change Japanese loyalties,
the

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.96)
-9-
the general population, if their leaders are
removed, might be convinced of the futility of
overt acts on their part.
Respectfully yours,
R. Henry Norweb.
820.02 - Japan
CC:JKE:GHB/fs
X
wom
Received

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF THE AMERICAN REPUBLICS
August 20, 1942
RA - Mr. Chapin:
Lima's despatch no. 4467, August 5.
A hurried reading of this memorandum
indicates the very sloppy and loose atten-
tion by Peruvian authorities in the area
of Peru covered, of control of Axis move-
ments and activities in general, with
hints of clandestine radio stations, bribing
of police, teaching in Japanese contrary to
law, entry of unauthorized individuals into
Talara, of various Proclaimed List violations
which WT will of course take care of,
transfers of police who are too vigorous in
controlling the Axis, and in general a
thoroughly lamentable situation, as herein
depioted.
I should like to believe there is some-
thing which might be done in the way of
suitable instructions to Lima, ur talks
with the Peruvians here.
894.20210/194
LVB
RA:Baldwin!ojs

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.92)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
RA
601

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.94)
14
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SEP 1 6 1942
SKH
Department of State

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.95)
BA/H
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 9, 1942
MWB
RLS
MMH
The underlying strictly confidential
despatch no. 4618 of August 18, 1942 from
Lima, entitled "The Japanese Problem in Peru;
review and recommendation" is well summarized
in the underlying memorandum prepared in RA.
I believe you will be interested in
reading that memorandum.
SEPT
(114
FE:SaIASbary:MS

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.93)
Mr. Woodwerdh
Mr. Bongal
M
Mr. Haney
PA
WT
ADivision of
DCA
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ASEP 9 - 1942
Department of State

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF THE AMERICAN REPUBLICS
September 1, 1942
Summary of Lima Despatch No. 4618,
August 18, 194:, Concerning the Japanese
Colony in Peru; Review and Recommendation
The Embassy believes there are approximately 25,000
persons of Japanese race in Peru at present; 77% living
around Lima and 1l% around Callao. Although about 500
Japanese have been repatrieted in 1942, the Embassy stil1
believes the problem of Japanese activities quite out of
control. It reports that Japanese move about with little or
no hindrance; that many of them continue to live in places
from which they are said to have been removed; in spite of
regulations to the contrary, they continue to fish, hunt, and
drive automobiles; most of the 27 Japanese schools in Peru
are operating; most of the Japanese associations still exist,
although operating under restrictive conditions.
The Peruvian Government has taken some steps to control
Japanese activity, of which the deportation program was one.
This program, however, was "only in part successful". If
this country sends to Peru more deportation ships, President
Prado "in view of his expressed opinions on the Japanese
problem might be persuaded to use his personal influence to
achieve successful action. If not, the devious channels of
influence in this country (Peru) would operate in the direction
of striking from our lists many names, replacing them by
names of other aliens who desire to leave Peru". The Embassy
at present has a list of at least 2o0 Japanese leaders whom
it desires repatriated.
The Embassy states that it believes. "a mass removal of
Japanese from Peru is the only permanent solution of the
problem". However, such a program is at present impractical
because Peru is not at war with Japan, and because of the
difficulty in finding sufficient ships to transport some
25,000 people. Therefore, the Embassy makes the following
recommendations concerning the Japanese program:
1. An agreement in principle to expel Japanese,
whether or not they are naturalized Peruvian citizens.
2. An

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
2. An unconditional agreement that the known
leaders of the Japanese colony now in Peru be expelled
on the first ship sent to Peru.
3. The removal of all Japanese from areas
designated as strategic, and from an area within a
specified distance from the coast. (Although some
Japanese have been removed from the coast now, they
are still within a few miles from the shore. In other
strategic points no evacuation has taken place at all).
4. The establishment of re-location centers in
the interior for small groups of Japanese removed from
specified areas.
5. The closing, unconditionally, of every Japanese
school.
6. Assignment of special well-paid police to
districts where Japanese ere living.
7. A ban on possession by Jananese of short-wave
radio receiving stations.
8. The prosecution of a propaganda campaign to
combat propaganda from Tokyo.
ETL
RA:ETL:ES

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.96)
September 1, 19as
Summery of Lima Deepatoh No. 4o18,
August 18, 1942, Concerning the Japanese
Colony in Pern: Review end Regommendation
The Embassy believes there are approxlmately 25,000
persons of Japanese race in Peru at prement; 77& living
around Limn and 11& around Callao. Although about 500
Japanese have been repatristed in l9a2, the Embassy still
believes the problem of Japanese activities quite out of
control. It reports that Japanese move about with little or
no hindrance; that many of thes continue to live in places
frow which they are said to have been removed; in spite of
regulations to the contrary, they continue to flsh, hunt, and
drive automobiles; moet of the 2? Japenese schools in Pera
are operating; most of the Japanese assoclations atill exlst,
although operating under restrlotive conditions.
The Peruvien Government has taken some stops to control
Jepanese aotivity, of whion the deportation program was one.
This progrem, however, was "only in pert puccemaful". If
this country sends to Peru more deportetion ships, President
Predo "in view of his expreesed opinions on the Japeneme
problem might be persuaded to use his personal influence to
achieve successful action. Ir not, the devious channels of
influence in this country (Poru) would operate in the direetion
of striking from our liste many names, replacing them by
names of other aliens who desire to loave Peru". The Embamey
at prement has a liat of at least 200 Japanese leadere whom
it desires repatriated.
The Embasay states that it belleves "a mass removal of
Japanese fron Peru is the only permanent solution of the
problem". lowever, such a program is at presemt impractieal
because Peru ie nof at war with Japan, and beoause of the
diffioulty in finding sufficient ships to traneport some
25, 000 peaple. Therefore, the Embasay makes the following
recommendations conoerning the Japanese progrems
1. An agreement in principle to expel Japamese,
whether or not they are naturalized Peruvian eltiseme.

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.98)
2. An unoonditional agreement that the known
leaders of the Japanese colony now in Peru be expelled
on the first ship sent to Peru.
3. The removal of all Japanese from areas
designated as strategic, and from an area within a
specified distance from the coast. (Although some
Japsnese have been removed from the coast now, they
are still within a few miles from the shore. In other
strategic points no evacuation has taken place at all).
4. The establishment of re-location centere in
the interior for small groups of Japanese removed from
speciried areas.
5. The closing, unconditionally, of every Japaneee
school.
6. Assignment of special well-paid police to
distriots where Japanese are living.
7. A ban on possession by Japanese of short-wave
radio receiving stations.
8. The prosecution of a propaganda campaign to
combat propaganda fron Tokyo.
RAIETLIES

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
reply refer to
SEP y 1942
894.20210/198
FW 894.20210/198
CONFIDENTIAL
The Department of State transmits to the following
the attached information in the hope that it will be of
value:
Military Intolligonoe Division
Office of Naval Intelligence
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Enolosure:
Copy of strictly ponfidential despateh no. 4618
dated August 18, 1942 from the Amerioan Embassy,
Lima concerning The Japanese problem in Peru;
review and redommendation.
PS/PGB
FC: JDH: VKA
9-9-42
A t ydf
the signed
nal.

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.96)
CC-286
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
Mederal Burean of Inuestigation
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
Anited States Departmenk or Sustice
DCR
RA
100
THE AMERICAN REPUBLICS
Date:
DEPAIIMENT OF STATE
To: Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
7A
Assistant Secretary of State
894.20210/199
From: J. Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject: Chilean journalists returning from Japan.
A confidential reliable source has advised that Chilean
journalists who have been in Japan are expected to proceed to the United
States, and that the Japanese at the Japanese Embassy in Santiago
appeared to be very disappointed that these journalists were not going
to Buenos Aires first.
Among the returning journalists is an individual named Iglesias
and his wife who are reported to be very anti-American and probably
Japanese agents. This information has not been confirmed by investigation.
This information is also being furnished the Coordinator of
Inter-American Affairs.
Division of
00
Direotor, Naval Intelligence
FAR EASTÉRN AFFAIRS
Navy Department, Washington, D. C.
SEP291
SEP 211
FILED
Brigadier General Hayes A. Kroner
Department of State
Chief, Military Intelligence Servioe
War Department, Washington, D. C.
19
September 11,
2042
PS/PGB
dential File
RECEIVED
AUG 2 5 1942
jer tab
EP 8- 1942
FORDEFENSE
BUY
UNITED
1
STATES
SAVINGS
BONDS

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.90)
September 11,/1942
STRICTLY CON IDENTIAL
N0o. 2084
To the porican Arbassador,
Santiago.
The Sooretary of State quotes for tho confidential
informat: on and po..ible com ont of the Embasay, exoerpts
from a ocmmumication received rom a confidential source
w1thin the Covermment:
"A confidontial roliablo souroe has advisod
that Chilean journalists who hay been in Japan
894.20210/199
aro axpocted to procoed t the United States,
and thnt the Japanese at the Japanose Embasay
In Sa tiago appear:d t be very disappointed tiat
these journalists wero not going to B:onos Aires
first.
"Among the returning Journalists is an
ind! vidual namo: Iglesias and his wife who are
reported to be vory anti-Amerlean and probably
Japanose agents. This information has not been
confirmod by investigation."
Confide
804.20210/190
LLU
C1/L
9=68
Ra
Lus
CR12
BEP 10 196
Ae

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.97)
DIVISION OF
CONEIDENTIAL
In reply refer to Initials
1194
and No.
THE AMEHISAMEANDRDICST
DE AR PENT OF STATE
NAVY DEPARTMENTELVED
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF NAYAL OPERATIONS
WASHINGTON
DIVISION OF
CONFIDENTIAL
Serial No. 02196016
ORDS
MEMORANDUM FOR Liaison Officer,
161942
Department of State.
Subject:
Japanese Problem in Peru.
Reference is made to your letter of transmittal, o
894.20210/198 of September 9, to which was attached despatch No. 4618,
dated August 18, from the American Embassy in Lima, Peru.
894.20210/200
' On page 8 of reference despatch the American Ambassador
has made specific recommendations for the handling of the Japanese
problem in Peru. The Navy Department considers it to the national
interest that these recommendations be placed into effect. However,
since it is improbable that all of them can be immediately implemented,
the following are regarded as meriting priority:
1. The removal of all Japanese from areas designated
as strategic and from an area within a specified
distance from the coast.
2. A ban on the possession by Japanese of short-wave
radio sets.
3. The closing, moonditionally, of every Japanese school
MAY 1 3 1944
FILED
The assignment of special police to districts where
Japanese are living. They should be well paid and
should be tranaferred frequently in order to reduce
the temptations of bribery.
DECLASSIFIED
fidential File
E.O. 11652. Sec. 3(E) and 5D)  (E
OD letter, May 3. 1972
NARS Date.
U
LIAISON OFFICE
Mr. Orme Wilson
Liaison Officer
SEP 1 5 1942
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
CONEIE

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 4850
Lima, September 10, 1942
Subject:
Transmitting Translation of Intercepted
Communication from a Japanese Resident
of Trujillo.
3
C
N:
Diviston of
10-12-42
E1
JeH
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
C
OCT151942
LLJ
Depa. tment of State
HAS
894.20210/201
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
10/2
DIVISION OF COMMERUIAL APFAINS
AM
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
1/
I have the honor to enolose a translation from
Japanese of a communication addressed to José Dodobara,
enclosed in an envelope addressed to Roberto Nakashima
PS/RIR
N., Casilla postal 1790, Lima, postmarked Trujillo
and signed "Don José". The addressee, Jos6 Dodohara,
has been manager in Lima of the prominent Japanese
firm, Julio Tao. He is among the leaders of the
Japanese colony and was recommended for expulsion on
the S/s SHewnes by the Embessy. Roberto (Shoj1)
Nakashima is the fishing expert who directs an er-
perimental station beyond Iquitos and who likewise
has been repeatedly recommended for expulsion from
Peru.
心
Although
1942

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.98)
MAIL
-2-
Although the identity of the writer of the letter
is unknown, the subject matter and the style of his
writing suggest that he is educated and that he is
an important member of the Trujillo Japanese colony.
Reference is made in the communication to an
investigation of Japanese in Trujillo which the writer
attributes to the "manipulation of the Lima Embassy
of our enemy country, the United States". This
investigation is undoubtedly one being conducted
for the Ministry of Government and for the President
by Major César Larco. It is an official undertak-
ing and includes the taking of affidavits from indi-
vidual Japanese with regard to their antecedents,
family, business activities and financial resources.
An examination is being made of the accounts of
Japanese firms and general information collected
with regard to the movements and activities of
Japanese in the Trujillo area. A Japanese cook
employed by Mr. Larco and trusted by him, accompanies
him and acts as interpreter and is apparently the
Japanese mentioned in the communication.
As in numerous other letters which have been
translated by the Embassy, the patriotism and supreme
confidence of the Japanese in Peru clearly stand out.
The British and American fleets are called impotent,
the European situation described as "smashing triumph
for the Axis Powers", and the raid on Dieppe termed
a "colossal failure".
The inference is made that the United States,
by bringing on the war, has caused economic suffering
and distress in the countries of South America,
especially Peru. Apprehension is expressed lest
a "grave social crisis" develop. Countries who
have broken relations with the Axis or declared war
are called weak in their "blind subservience to
England and America".
Respectfully yours,
 Monvnt
R. Henry Norweb
Enclosure:
1. Translation of
Intercepted
Communication
871
JKE/fs
To the Dopartment
in origipal and
heotograph.
He cto to DCA

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 1 to despatoh no.
4850, September 10, 1942, from
the Embassy, Lima.
Translation from Japanese into English of a
letter addressed to Sr. Roberto Nakashima N.,
Casilla postal 1790, Lima, postmarked Trujilio,
for José Dodohara, signed Don José.
It has been some time since I have had news of
you. This year we have had extremely cold weather
but I believe the cold has already passed its
peak, since now it is quite warm here in the middle
of the day. How is it with you and how is your
family?
Actually I have wanted to get in touch with you
for some time but since the beginning of the Great
East Asia War there have been so many difficulties
of all sorts and then I know that in the Lima Post
Office there is an especially strict censorship
of all mail matter for Axis people. As you probably
know, Matsuura has arrived here with a suspicious
official and, apparently for the purpose of finding
out some weak points among the Japanese population,
is closely questioning the Japanese daily. If this
were being made on the request or on the order of
the Peruvian Government, then it would be something
that couldn't be helped but it is being conducted
through the manipulation of the Lima Embassy of our
onemy country, the United States. The whole thing
is certainly an unconscionable business and while
I dont suppose we are going to receive any punishment
as a result of this, it is a disgrace that one of
our own people shouid have turned out to be such
a dishonest rasoal.
As you are aware, the Great East Asia War is
making tremendous progress. The restoration of the
occupied territories in the south is progressing
moothly and we are able to get all kinds and
plenty of natural resouroes. In Japan proper,
the orops for the entire country are the best this
year since 1933. Therefore, the inorease in war
time food production is a triumphal success.
With regard to the military situation, our armed
forees have brought under their control ali of the
former Amorican bases for attacking Japen in the
Northern, Central and Southern areas. This means
that the continued existence of our fatherlamd, the
Great Empire of Japan, is an immutable certainty.
In Europe the war situation is resulting in a mmeshing
trimph for the Axis powers. From the pelitieal
standpoint mglend is faced with the power of an
this questien is a matter of the sravest import which
may decide the fate of the Great British Mmpire.

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
The retreat of the Soviets means the retreat of the
Allies. All of the important newspapers in both
London and New York have agreed that this is true.
Churchill went to Moscow because of Stalin's in-
sistence on the immediate opening of a second front
and disregarding the opposition of his military
advisors, ordered carried out the raid on the little
port of Dieppe in northern France on the 19th of
last month. This raid turned out to be a colossal
failure and was the laughing stock of the entire
world.
Looking at Japan's offensive, about 40 warships
and 50 airplanes transporting numerous troops and many
kinds of war materials to northern Australia, which
the Allies must make their central base, were dis-
covered by the Imperial Navy and now repose on the
deep bottom of the Pacific Ocean. According to the
Berlin Radio, every day ten warships are destroyed;
this reveals the impotence of the two main fleets
of Britain and the United States.
America dreamed that she could bring Japan to
surrender without shedding blood and by a victory
won from an economic blockade but, on the contrary,
now she is the one who is being blockaded. For
this reason even the trade of the South American
countries has come to a standstill. Especially is this
true of Peru and for this reason the Government here
has suffered a severe economic blow. Commodities
are daily becoming soarcer and prices are bounding
up to a limitless ceiling. There is strong feeling
and anxiety that a very grave social crisis will
break out. We feel that the political leaders of
this oountry must wake up immediately to the situa-
tion and devise some thorough means for meeting it.
Aocording to the news from Tokyo this morning,
Foreign Minister Togo has resigned his office because
of personal reasons. His post will be filled by
General Tojo who now holds conourrently the port-
folios of Prime Minister, War Minister and Foreign
Minister. It is expected that the Imperial foreign
polioy will take a new direotion. The enemy countries
are especially worried about this. As Prime Mimister
Tojo has said on various occasions, England and the
United States are Japan's enemies. Certain countries
submitting to the pressure of Englakd and the United
States have broken relations or have deelared war
on the Axis powers. Now, they dont know which way
to turm and the fact that they repemt or their
blind subservience to England and America shows what
weak countries they are.
Well I have rambled on quite a while and close
sending my best regards to your family.
Dom Josd

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WABHINGTON
In reply refer to
OCT 13 1942
FW
CONFIDENTIAL
EW 894.20210 /201
The Department of State transmits to the following
the attached 1nformation 1n the hope that 1t will be of
value:
Military Intelligenoe Division
Office of Naval Intelligence
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Enolosure:
Copy of strictly confidential despatch no. 4850
dated September 10, 1942 from American Embassy,
Lima, subject, "Transmitting Translation of
Intercepted Communication from a Japanese Resident
of Trujillo," with enolosure.
FC : JDH: VKA
10-12-42
A tree copy of
the signed origt-
not. Eoa

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.95)
CC-285
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
Jederal Burean of Inuestigation
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
United States Department of Sustice
ZDCR
Mashington, D. C.
Date:
AG 25 1942
A.SISTANT BE
To:
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
1942
Assistant Secretary of State
MR.
Department of State
BERLE
Washington, D. C.
From: J. Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Soptember 30,1942
Diviston of
MEION OF CELT
894.20210/202
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
OCT6 -1942
"The Gripsholm is arriving at Rio de Janeiro
in a few days time and the Chilean journalists and
others are returning home by rail. It has come to
our ears that the Americans are planning to meet
them with open arms to try to get them to make prop-
aganda against Japan. We are thinking of sending
immediately YATOI and MIyAZAKI of our staff to meet
them at Buenos Aires in order to put them on their
guard and to discuss further relations with us here.
Please advise if you concur and of your opinion on
the matter.
YAMAGA TA."
OCT 8 -1942
FILED
FOREIGN
CORREL
OF
XC
9/18
AUG271942/42
es
ini to danth
PS/RIR
DLPA
REOBIVED
PORDEFENSE
DIVISION OF
BUY
UNITED
STATES
SAVINGS

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.96)
CC-285
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
aLe:
To.
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
From: J. Eagar Heove: - Directer. Federal Eureau of Investigation
Subjeet:
For your information, this Bureau has been advised by
a confidential source that on the 5th of August, 1942 the
Japanese Embassy in Santiago, Chile informed Tokyo as follows:
"The Gripsholm is arriving at Rio de Janeiro
in a few days time and the Chilean journalists and
others are returning home by rail. It has come to
our ears that the Americans are planning to meet
them with open arms to try to get them to make prop-
aganda against Japan. We are thinking of mending
immediately YA TOI and MIYAZAKI of our staff to meet
them at Buenos Aires in order to put them on their
guard and to discuss further relations with us here.
Please advise if you concur and of your opinion on
the matter.
YAMAGA TA."

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.95)
September 30, 1949
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
No. 2155
To the American Ambassador,
Sant1ago.
894.20210/202
The Seoret: ry of State quotes for the oonfidential
information of the Embassy, excerpts from a communioation
received from a confidential souroe within the Government:
".....this Bureau has been advised by a confidential
source that on the 5th of August, 1942 the Japanese
Embassy in Santiago, Chile informed Tokyo as follows:
"The Gripsholm is arriving at Rio de Janeiro
in a few days time and the Chilean journalists
and others are returning home by rail. It has
come to our ears that the Americans are planning
to meet them with open arms to try to get them to
make propaganda against Japan. We are thinking
of sending immediately YAtoI and MIYAZAKI of our
staff to meet them at Buenos Aires in order to
put them on their guard and to disouss further
relations with us here. Please advise if you
coneur and of your opinion on the matter. YAMaGatA.
PS/PGB
BEP 29104
File
894.20210/202
gelt
RUCThA
9-24-42

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.98)
894.20210
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
203
SUBJECT
Or anization of Japanese "Colonies" in Latin America:
Transmits a memorandum re arding -.
894.20210/203
bjh
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
despatoh-#2989
(Despatoh, télegram, instruction, letter, eta.)
Dated
Sept.17.1942
From
Panama (Muccio)
File No.
894.20232/106.
U. S. GOVERNNENT PRINTING OPFICE 1-189

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.92)
894.20210
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
204
SUBJECT Return of Chilean journalists from Japan.
Submits comments in regard to the -.
894.20210/204
8m6
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Hemo
(Despatoh, telegram, instruction, letter, eta.)
From
Dated....8ept...1...1942
Stata.Dept,American Repuplic(Baldwin)
Toxx
File No. ....825.91294/5.
Conr
1-1840

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAÑ EMBASSY
No。 4991
Lima. September 28, 1942.
Subject: Japanese Population in South America.
OF STATE
52
894.20210
1942 1 10
MIONS
 RS
For Distriut
IOASICH OF
5
STRICTLY C FIDENTIAL
GURR
FBI-ONI-mi
copyto
JDH
COMMERCIAL AFF
OCT 1 0 1942
DIVISION OF
3
10//4
001 20 1942
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
OCT 3 0 1942
Sir:
FILED
I have the honor to report that the Japanese
PS/PGB
Central Society of Peru in April, 1939, published
figures purporting to show the Japanese population
in each of the nations of South America. As of
interest in cheoking statistics from other sources
Confidential File
and since, in the case of Peru, the figure appears
to the Embassy to be reasonably aoourate, they are
quoted below for the information of the Department.
Japanese Population in South America
80
(Includes only Japanese born in Japan)
As of the End of 1938.
Mexioo

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Mexico
4,635
Cuba
714
Panama
358
Colombia
296
Venezuela
25
Peru
13,019
Bolivia
769
Chile
686
6,267
Argentina
Uruguay
74
Paraguay
428
Brazil
197.733
Total
225,005
For Peru, the population figures are broken
down as follows:
Men
8,821
Women
4,198
Children (nisei of
Peruvian birth)
10,067
Total
23,086
The Embassy has in a previous despatch estimated
Peru's Japanese population at 25,O00. It is believed
that the Japanese figure for the end of 1938, which
is slightly smaller than the 1940 oensus figure, may
be considered fairly accurate for that date.
Mr. Shin-ichi Yokoyama, an Attaché of the Japanese
Legation in Lima, is the author of an article entitled
"Activities of the Japanese in Greater South Amerioa"
(Dai Nan-bei to Hon-po-jin no Katsudo) which appears in
the same publication of the Japanese Central Society in
Lima from which the above figures are taken. He sketches
briefly the commercial and industrial enterprises of the
Japanese in the countries of South America, with special
reference to Brazil and Peru. He emphasizes the strength
of the Japanese in Brazil, pointing out that the value
of their agricultural production in the state of Sao Paulo
alone amounted in the year 1936 to ¥ 150,000,000. He
concludes that the principal stage for Japanese activities
must be Brazil and Peru because of the great superiority
in numbers of Japanese residents of these two countries.
Mr. Yokoyama's final paragraphs reiterate the
spirit which has animated the Japanese in South America
and hint significantly at their ultimate aims. They
are quoted in translation:
"At present Japan is proceeding with
significant steps in her advance on the continent
of East Asia. This mission we must carry out
regardless of saorifice in order to secure and
extend the vital life-line of our Empire. For
this reason it is possible that expansion toward
1
South

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
South America cannot be considered for the
moment; however, for the very reason that we are
engaged in the "China Incident" we must foster
and develop to the fullest degree agriculture
and mining in this South American area.
Japanese activities in the South American
countries have so far been in the hands of the
first generation and we must await the time when
the responsibility will be shifted to the Japanese
of the second and third generations. Now the
responsibility rests squarely on the shoulders
of every Japanese here.
Will the day not soon come when the children
of the Japanese immigrants who landed on the
east coast of the South American continent
cross the Andes and shake the hands of their
brothers of the west.coast in the-upper reaches
of the Amazon!?"
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
Ralrndlbulch
Rolland Welch,
Second Secretary of Embassy
855
JKE/fs
To thDepartment
in original and
heotograph
Copy by Courier to
the Embassy at
Rio de Janeiro.
Hecta sent to eex

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF THE-AMERICAN REPUBLICS
LIAISON OFFICE
October 19, 1942
1010
U-L:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.20732
The Far Eastern Section of ONI ha requested copies
of Lima's despatches no.4991 and no 4890 which concern
the Japanese situation In South America. It would be
appreciated if these could be transmitted.
T07205
The man with whom I talked also asked, if in the
future, all such reports could not be sent over in
duplicate so that the Far Eastern Section could have one,
as well as one for the American Republics Section.
10-27-42.
Copieo tranonitted
PS/VH
ONI
as listed
AL.
OCT 2 81942
FILED

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
In reply refer to
OCT 16 1942
0 894.20210/205
CONFIDENTIAL
894.20210 205
The Department of State transmits to the following
the attached informat1on 1n the hope that 1t will be of
value:
Military Intelligence Division
Office of Naval Intelligence
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Enolosure:
Copy of strictly confidential despateh no. 4991
dated September 28, 1942 from Ameriean Embassy,
Lima, subject, "Japanese Population in South
America".
Confidential
FC: JDH: VKA
10-15-42

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.97)
CC-285a
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
Rkipy of Inuestigation o
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
001
FEO
Mashington, D. C.
DIVISION
Date: OCT 12 1942
131942
To: Honorable Adolf A. Berle, s.
Assistant Secretary of Stafte
01
10/206
Confiden
Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
0CT231942
Subject: Radio Broadcasts from Japan to Latin America
DEPARTMENI OE SIATE
As of possible interest to you there are forwarded horenth
PS/PGB
copies of broadcasts from Japan to Latin America which have been intercepted
Copies of these interceptions have been received from a reliable, confidential
source.
This information is also being furnished to the Coordinator of
Inter-American Affairs.
Enclosure

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.79)
Gosd evemins, reste llatesers of Latia Amarion
/stetlom seemessiemticn./
WITED BTATRS POLIEE DMPRLUUN 1 JAP MHE IN A CELL FOR
THO PERSUNS
The Takye rease hea already repeatedly breadeass Getalle
who have boasted or being the stantard bearers of Justise and
qualiy.
0
Radle Tokyo La mow broadeasting os har reports in sats
matter in ardar so appeal for Justiee.
wits the conseguess surrerins of the prleenere.
CLA AO.EN IN UNIYYSITY  HILDPD
Dome1  nt a dlapsk frem lla stesi
beem sapended beeeuse if she war.
PRUGU OF NG NSTHUOTIUN IN BUMA
-1-

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.88)
have been bel ieved peesible, bearing In mind that were cempletely
destroyed by the Brisish troepe and by shose of Chiang Kai-aksk.
ofuram.
MOBLN MAPIVEB IN JAVA ANE ADMINISTRATIVE RMPLOYE-S
A Dome1 di:patah coming from Bandeong, important a ity of
Jave, reparts that on the Sth, o monthe arter the eatry or the
wer of eonstruetion were eelebrated with eplendor. what es-
peelally attreoted astention is shat the natives of the island,
whe were slavee of the Duteh before the war, ure new adminis-
trative empleyeee replasing the Duteh. The respest /1/ of trese
natives for the Japanese ls greater emary day.
/station idontirieation/
AMBRICAN SOLDIXRS IN INDIA -RE CNPOPULAN
2
In the anti-mrIslah stmosphere /1/ of India, the Amerleen
9
zalary of an Kngl ish moldier, and a times that of an Indian.
A mountain af reporte of cemplainte of furious natives, eome dally.
sueh a etatn of asrairs, but witmus rosult.
UNITED BTATES PASBES THN UOH ECOLOBIO CRIAIS IN WAR TINE
Presidens Hoosevelt asked Gongress on the Gth so gremt him
eempletely sotalitarian pewers relative to the cesenomle peliey
of the United Ssases. Whas does the Amerlean di dater propese
te de with auah power? When in Jomwary ar this year,
 of  1048.

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.89)
his werm enemles.
UNITED STATES PROPABANDA ...... IPS DEFRATS
De are informed from Duemos Airee thme in thie eapital om
wi th shird-slass passengers. In anis eenneatiem, obeervers here
say that even wi thous having lied in suen a categerieal marmer
noutral oountrics.
TH AANTIOHARTER SHOD BF HTRACTRD
In these moments when the so-eall ed Aslantle Charter in the
ebjeet of severe arisieism in Indsa, rumors eireulate thas the
Unised Ssates and Angland mall annoumee this time a Pasirie Char-
ser, bet one mst realise that when Japem preelaimed the eom-
struetion or a new Oriental order, based on the puress ethies and
jeeting the Anglo-amerloan influenee, the indigimous populasiems
ent war. In suen aireumetanees, wbatever may be said abous she
Orient where Japan dominates, everything will prove useless. The
authore of the Atlensle Charter, wileh deee nes apply /1/ te the
Atlantle, ought to wi undrew 18 instend of formulating another
aharter of the Pasisie.
/880810n
PRANIRR URHILL ATTENDS THE INST SESSIU P THE HOUSE OP COM
Dome1, Lsbon. Aecerding to a Lendom dispateh, . Uarehill
to hin, rerusing also to state asest date abous the msuseesarul
lamaing at Diope.

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.92)
91
INSINCERE AN LO-BAXON ATTITUDF INOE THX  OVIRT
Aecarding to news from London, Premier Churehill's repert
to the House of Commons of his trip taken to Moseew, revealed
that tr. atalin and otrer direetors af the Soviet overnment,
have expressed sheir dissatlsfaotlon wisn the insineere asti-
tude of the govarnments of angl and and the United States. Im
spite of the explenations iven by Meaars. Chrehill and Marri-
man, representative of Presldent Hoosevels, the Seviet direetors
nave greatly aritioised the ... disloyalty of the Engliah and
Ameriean govermmente in produeing only slight and eonvenient
aid to the soviet armies mien were in dirfieulty.
BWOLISH NAVY HAS LOST UP T. AU U T HALY ITS CARKDKRG AND A THIND
! ITC BATT: ESHIPE
A dispaten from Llabon says that aseerding to reports frem
Londom, rnpl1sh naval authorities annowneed that the inclish
navy has lost up to the month or last August, halr of ite air-
r ame sarriers and submarines, and a tnird of its bastleshipe,
aruisers, and deetroyers, witout revealing the mmber of war
shipe lost.
/Conalusion/
/Announeer:/ You will new bear a leeture by the fmewe
intermationel eomentator, Mr. Iwasaki.
/This speeeh was on anether aheet./

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.90)
-R.
Gentlemen: Bouth or the Manehurlan plains, and between the
Sea or Japan and the Yellow ea, 1s found ome ef the most amelent
and beautirul sorners of the world. Koree, from its ... dominion
of memin, Chin Ben, Kitae and in o /phonetie apelling of these
 folioming Korean nemes, was alaimed in tie year llss B.C.
a Chinese tesrisory, nd from then uantil the date that Japan
teok the ..., it never formed a politioal unis, that la to say.
1t did not possess = the essential characteristics of a nasion.
In the rirst eenturies of our ere, Karee was divided into 3
diffepent states that had great importanee, ..... Civil ware
alosed the borders for a thousand yeare, at the end af wt lab,
the stase ar Chin Lo asquired dominion over the others. Dut in
the loth /7/ contmury, the king almine mng Chang united the
peninsule, establiahing the dmasty which has given a name to
the country. After the fall of the dymasty of Mongolia, the
plote and verious intrigums of thina, provoked ne of the most
formidable revelusions mmong the Korean people, In cunsequencs
of this, /Rorea began to be tranaformod. In Isos, Tai jo Liten,
Chinese muvereign resident in Korea, inearibed a calendar of .
Prom 1500 to 184d, the Koreans waged the fmoue war arainst
Japn. In 1597, the reat monaroh aito me Kito // .....
whleh the Koreane had e nferred on him. The Japanese general.
Rabuoh1, omanding a foro composed of 173, 000 hrsmen, ar
ried out a great invasion, osoupying three quarters of the
country, and bringing m about the destruesion of many aities,
in spite of the emergetie defense o' their inhabitants, in
whlen the Chinese kings couperated, sending help of arms and
man. finally the death of the .. and vengoful ... brought 
end to the prolonged sampaigm ... the year l39s, but she peace
was mot signed until lols. When the Manahu dynasty ascended
the throne of China, the Koreene captured the ., who ..
areat deslre, in that te Koreane had to ascompany them, paying
them elevased tributes to the ... dynestles.
but we are not geing t astempt to huld a mirror to the
extensive Korean hiatery. The fact is thet every claas of
lorious ..., produst  the virtues or this people, because
there exiass a ... cult... of the family. a veritable :evelation
for the children, sals beine porhape the nly country in the
world, mmhere she insmous at! n or iafantioide was not prastleed.
Various abandoned .... menerated the decudenee of so illustrious
a eity. when Japan oamm, everythine there alept in lotharey,
nd /Japen/ had to caume a veritable resureetion of this people.
After several ear, the resulte obtaimed were really astonishing.
-1-

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.91)
The industry ... an elestrio plant considered me of the
largest in the world. The aneriy ... usilisy for all the .
and moving the wteels N of meahimery .... /reeord nolsy/.
abundanoe of iron ... proouring multiple riahes to a country
 marahing soward progress. The eneouragemont  gricul-
ture has caused ... devel opment. The fields ... laborers culti-
vating grains ... Be millions .... ihe aultivation f rice,
whieh had becn ... several years ago, was reborn under the
stimilus o? the mystem or aprcial taxes with the Japenese .
and mome t:me will omstitute one of the hisbest ... of Its
produotion.
re edueatlonal problem hus been restored in this country,
wrere the teaching profession had been completely avand ned.
The number of primary pur1ls, whlah ms 2, 000 in l910, 1nereased
to abo..t 8 mililon 1n l942, wtlah conatitutes about 70 peroent
I the student population. There re S,Oo saho ls, mong
whlah the . . losated in Sooul is prominent. It has 1. u91 pupils,
all or them ahll ren of Kozeans. The Ju anese government r
forea requires '/ that all the ahildren o: the laborine classes
fulrill their duoati onal requ:remmnts.
m of the most n table ms mote of tis Koree, is the a
solute agroeuent of the paorle. in the work oarried out by the
Japanese. Their opinion /is/ that it would be impossible for
12
the Koreans not to cooperate = in this work wi tt fra:efu. on-
thusiamm. All show mormove interest in learning the Japaese
Lans:uas:e. They ald with real abnegatlon, whatever works ave
been initlated and established b the Japanese authorities.
The admirable shing is to real ize that the Koreane heve always
been cmsidered a ... and viclous /1/ reoe. r s provea h
evident are the good intents ons and noble intentions of Japen
whieh ls advanoing the interests and the sineere aid of all
the peoples or the ssiatio prosperity srhere.
In Kores, as in Manshurai and North China, Japan continues
to earry out its preat e netruative wrk. In spite of all the
bstacles, and ali the sasririoes, the eompenaatlons are so ...
beeause we dn's think of them either, convineed of the .. of
desire, that there mst rirat be /estabiisned/ the rel,n of pod,
of justiee, and that everythine else will come wrouih he
/cnalu1od

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.84)
 , 50er 9, 1943
/ cat lon announeemmns - ware lengtas, frequemeios, eted/
we mow brins you the latest noms or ourrent mvemss.
THY DSPEAT  V  IOA UNIT I TH PAOIPIO  PROOP 
THE YANRE D. FRAT IN NI SOLAMOIS
President Ro sevelt, Ln nis recens rireside shat, .......
Havy possesses in the lecifle, reeognising dissimalatively the
Late that she Morth her loan Mavy has Lost up to the presant:
5 battlemhips, 6/7/ oarslers, and 16 arulsers or 750, 000 toms
and that they eann t regain the nywal maperiorisy whloh they
possessed over he Je anese /Navy/, no matter how much they eem
regaia, up to a certain degree. by new cnstruoticn. locordins
to nfo.matiom whioh has reeebed here, the Morth weriean autho-
ritles heve crdered the transrer or cme bestleship mnd 3 eruieers
bulinging to the tluntle fieet at so the Poeirie whlon hes lost
its prinoipel units in sueh naval battles as that of the colomoms
and others.
WILL FREDST RO VILT B L TO RESTORE L: L /T/ TO T
COMOMICL F E UNTEDTAT
The President - dlotator or the U.s., Lir. loosevelt, La his
late ror an uppeal to the people, for it should have appeared
appeere thes fresidess coosevals belleves he ean overeome the
supply or his naval rorees atteeking she Japemess, by mmans ef
less repair the spiritwal ahoek siven to ais poople.
100.00.000 POUNDUTNOI NE PID:TUR OF NG
Leme1, Stoakholm, eeardi to a dispatah from London, the
C aneeller or the Eeabequer of . ngland Mr. Kingaley weed La the
session os the lower house on the gah, presented a prejeet,
●1-

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.84)
rease or 500,000 in comparicon with the midale fiseal peried /1/
of June.
/station announeemont./
POLIICAL APDPHEIOE II INDLA CONTINUES
Lomel, Stookholm, inrorns us thet mccording to facts roperted
from Mew Delhi, the Indian rebellion is contimuing to persist
completes a mcnth sinoe Canahi's arrost, the poople demonstrated
viulently in Bombay, 150 Rindus having bees arrested and meay
by the ririne or the ellah foroes which subjuemted tm.
THE RUD ARADA OF TIE BLAOK S A ILL BE DESTROYIED
We are Lnformed from erlin that sinee their last base was
2
on the government or Turkey pernitt me passage through the Sesperes.
As the Turkish Covernzent bas stated, ésecrding to à
19
9
/type or/ destruesicn.
THE ATTIBBRITICK MOVELNT UF IAAN IS DMORLASING
A Geapaseh from the Dome1 Ageney of /mounds 1L1mes/ Dama
parpese of procseding to Palestime will remain there.
FADLINHE CF LR. WILLKHK'G MISBIUN DIN TUNKNY
●2-

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.79)
to robaran on the lotn to cuntinue his trip.
CTRY ATHORIT
IN  IRLN
The  esi penoy, t oknola. infurre us txt moearding to
 selerrem from Lnd n, tne rube lions started the aroie ropab
lieans of Ireland hnve teken on a serious charaoter becsuse of
tho political disorcanization r the No the:n part ? Ireland.
In vlow or this Britiah muthoritles have b an obl ped so deelare
thas a ne wmiah kneludes the oity or :alfast cnd aurroundings
hes been .......... :or vhioh te rarris n hs boen reinroroed
to o ie nit et to .
/titicm and ut./
ACDTIC
 o. or ly i uhinton n th 9tn 1 rr pu
liomt ln n o tmaunique in whioh be mays th t the transport teamer
akeriold of 2h,ooo ne burned un the 3rd in the tlantie.
CT C
un the gt, the camnder in anior f mse forees in
Central chine doolared in a ocrmunique as a reoure of is cae
forees, whian begun thoir uoticn in the strategle or vinees us
chekian und larrsl in y, have mt with munesme in annlhilat
ing the anery, tivne buth matuilul u spiritual blome to the
Louders of the auery recime who ut suah hope in these sestors
that chey sant their bosttroope to complete inw carrlnon.
. J C  
rron the tiliypine capitul :one1 :nrorme us that the
disousaing plans to eebe establisn a larc peneral publis
hospital iu the central part of the city, muah un Iaauguratiom
being wee:ted with antiuslams uy the Japon ese as well as the
Fllipinos, while moo rding to the mare arenoy, the oity of
ihonan, tihe hygienio ommpain developed by Ji anese nedioime
 nst nurous ceseases uf the southern re i s heving .....
.... ...., no enjoy unquestionably hualthy conditic..
161611.T
T, wln    y viot,  bly
/actually: recleally/ aredieated, as thero ihas not been e ease
monk twh 750,000 cltisens grouped togother in the oity.
-3-

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.84)
constitut ing mute prcor of the sa dness and uffio lenoy of the
Japanese administration. /note that in a recent broadoast it was
announced that : populatin of anlle had assed 1.v00,000./
A LARO  OR /URDICION L NUUATED IN MANCHUUO
Domel reports fron the Manohu capital that the large
oompany or Reking. Firin /ph./ provinees ltanahukuo, having com
celebrate the coremony or llehting it for the imt time on the
Let or next month. It & hoped with this new oquip ant /rmetor/
to inorease the prcductivity of that steel company by 70 percant.
HE T T LANA ACRD    V
Lr. Hanke rayerr /ph./ on the morn ne os the loth was received
Le mn audienee by his ajesty the mperor or Jigan before whom
he presented is oredautlals as tie rirst inister or ulgaria
to tie Japenese Govern ent.
12
TYE PIRUT LINISTE E TO THE LWANCHU GOV OGNT PREENTS
I CREDENTA
Domel. Hsinking.  oupyins ror the rirst time tihe position
of Danish Minister to the Kananu Govern ent, tr. Lared Lelitse
/ph./ presented his crudent ials to the anehu mperor on the
marnin: of whe l0th.
C)
    H V  RV   Y T
6
DOPREUJ.UN
Her Majosty, the press of Japan, ruceived ir. Lako Marien,
entreorainary mbasnadar and planipotentiary ur the doviet Unien
to the Ja asese overament La the Imperial Paleee on the orming
of the Dth, wish the pereonnel of the ribassy ocsposed of 13
meabers, as well es the represensative of the hal Governvent,
Ambesseder Kr. Darek Chaiyanem, and his wire.
/station Identirieatica./
THE CRUELTY COLITTED Y Y AN AUTHRT AT 
COBATANT JAPAMESE
Hedlo Tokyo yusterday brosdeass to the rodto llatemere of
the werld the ereel and unfustiriable treateant glven se the
murreris of these Inside. The people ar the U.. aurely do

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.88)
oe know tf the cruuity with whion the authorities treeted Jape-
nese living there. Todey Radio Tokyo tranmnits new newm or the
inh an treat ent o.mmitted y the mmriean muthorieles against
non-o abe tant Japm: eee. All the dotainees were meakened by
nalnutrition beomuse or the extrenely poor food iven them. since
tho  mal consisted of a little ........ or ........ withoug
neat, two pleo s f sroad without butter nd o free without sugur
and tho dotainees ad tc ozciwnce their alcthing for those of
oriminals. In acditicn, the most inhuman and aruel eet comisted
by the Yoniees is the imprisonmont of u siek nan who could not
walk as he hed just been operuted un for a stonmah oaneer. It
is truly :noredible thnt clvilimed people who vay shey belleve
in Ccd huve een able to perpetrate such arue:ties. The people
or the Uos. especin ly those who have relatives or rriende in
Japan  and in ther countries or East le, upon Learming of
so any cruelsies ocrmitted aéinst Japunese in . s. mmst eartaialy
be w rrled about tibe treatrant whieh the Jup nese Jovernoans zives
tem. e ure plonsed to so able to tell them that they ay be
Japanese of imerleans and othor foreigmers in this country will
never c..ange and they will continue to be sreeted with kindness.
Radio Tokyo will broadoast further newe in shls conneetion
2
tomorrow.
/Anncunous and cr nows broadoast. t tion a noupeenum
with fre wancles, wavo legth ete. /
e will pow present a briuf pusloal interlude after which
 hear a opecah by the fumous interuational paxsntator is.
U
Iwmuani:
1625 inT /teocnd out of this recore./
/Introduotion of speaker/
Listenerm:
The spoeon  resident tocsevelt of the 7tn of soptonber
w the  fwi th 
people huve listened so. the post outatanding thing adalsted
by Rocsevelt in this speeeh was that the Amerlean natlon has
ase no progmess in its ef:orts to win the wur. fis words is
this connoctlon were: s we piay our roles wishin our country
to win this war, the anewer is that we are not doing anough."
Arter this the smerlean mandasory contimues to say that the
nation is manmoed by a series of dangercusly urcens coomomle
erimés of a dometle nature.  ecst or living is rising wish
meross she esunonio future or to coustry .....
Ropsevels does not try to hide the seriouspeas cf this danger
-3-

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.88)
wid adits that unloss Grastio o sures ce taken the comt of
living wiil cot complotely cut of o ptrol. Thv coonomio syotm
will cllepee, urlces and wurss wil! rise with muah rejidity
txt tim produotion proprem will be plmoed in aericus dungar.
 ccet cr te wu: borne /?/ by the taxpeyers, will riee far
a cve resent es i ates. This will nave a de oralizin efreot
on the poople, both scld: rs and oivili ns. hus suys noosovelt.
Le socusea cirress and the cerioun peoplo cr having caused
this sud situation. cocrding t him the ross is gullty of
.t havis taken sdequmte coasuros c ccutrol ticos. The Con
greas has followed tse ath or ravorltlem and las complotely
u cot the progren cs cocnomic stupilizatlon, y wone af the pre
perential treatient  vun to the far ers. Te not f favaritlpe
has started a vicicus ciroie in mhlah prices and mees tend /y/
to rise xlitinually niuher, givlns placo to ino mensee or inrle-
tlon mian oxturds cvur tho ocu.try.
1628
8
Rocsevelt aloo nocuses the ..arican peoyle: the nutlon must
have more money to earry on the war. The people should abatais
from luxurles. ur cow:try noeds an inoone very muoh roater
than the present cne, sinoe the war whiah has been ...
in l94).  ox rousin what he really chinks of his people, 
warns then thut battles cunnot be won by soldiors and sailers
who think firat or ul their pereoual marety und thut ware are
ocnfurt, or oy their cwm abeck b oks, afte. whioh, mot contemt
with ....... ... Courese anm his people, the Presldemt of the
. revel is true .. in maying tht he d sked
Congre s to conrer n re extansive dietatorial powers upen him se
axereise an absclute control over the eeononie astivisies of the
nation. nd /ir/ the Congress reruses to 1rmediately grant mim
these powers, hoosevels will take them hinselr withous waiting
any lo ges. " s I stated in my message to Congress, la ease
anls instasution rofuses to eet or nets inedequately, I shall
assudme the responsiuliity ir I belleve is .....
these last years, know that the inflation whieh is menesing.
p.lielos. It was no more tham deseption of Congrees and the
Aneriean people for whiah be sutherlsed she expenditure or alllsems
of the world, to realise ........ of weelese wosk in the belles
But fiually the hour of settling aecounts was bound to soms.
●-

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.87)
whieh the presidems finds tc hold back disaster is shat more
extensive powers be conrerred upon him.
Has be not already done enough danage and has he not already
caused surfieient troubles to hls people? Mas nct this the
he tock a faney to them in the past? and after all those errars
........ disillusioned upon eontemplating the sd panora
whish is now presented to them. marion, which, with the 
bisions whieh nature ........., could be the most prosperous
projeets whieh only favored his polisies. Furthermose Roose-
vels eame to power for the shird sie, an evens whieh hee no
dest ned for she unempleyed which alresdy resaned astromomie
rigures.
The sime fer settling accounss has arrived. Is is mot
surprisins that Larlat iom has begun. It is the natural and
Inevitable ecnsequenee of all nis sotions or the lest tem
91
sive pevers. Ameries La very elose to disaster. To ccnter
0
abyss ls to ruak its dowmfall en over the presepiee of hopeless
destruetsom.
END
-7-

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.84)
TRANS-PAIVIC UITLHC.T. Soptomber 11, 1942
DIU TOEYU TC LUTIN NERICA
Reaord Ne.1
1610 HT
/Due to faulty reeording, the noise in this reocrd is so
bad that trenslation is almost impossible./
Good evening, redic listeners of Latin Americe.
/station identirloatlon./
. . 5 enomy planes in Akyap.
Burra
.... bombers, lawuohed attmeks om Akyap. .. cuast
8
OREAT MUMBR UF PHILI INE PRI UERS IL. BL LACED IN LIBIRTY
1
Ascording to a Domei roport from anila, the Japanese
expeditionary forees in the Thili pines for some time have
been earrying out the emancipation or Philippike prisoners.
2
Secing the eeelient remults u this ........, deeided to
establimm ......... Philippines.
MANGHUKUOAN POPULA IUN OCUPINS JIN /T/ PLACE IN THE PORLD
u
We are Laformed frem Chumst ing that the Governrent of
O
Lamekukue has just anmouneed a rasloaal census, asccrd ns te
7
plaee én the world in importanee arter the ....
NICAN I TRKAT J DETAN S
 Amerieans La San Fearo, after the rirat
f she pen ,  f he  ime
.....m doetor of medieine named
/uemothing abous alstreet lng a Kr. Tamemeto./

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.91)
.. Australia La net satlaried with ..... Prom vicny com.
a report ar a telegram frum Camberra whieh says that ... .
Gurtin, in a session of the House of Commons on the oth, re-
ferring to the present ... of the allied countries, deelered
that ... supplies of the Allied coumtries. But it is impessible
to say mor", kmowing that ... /unintelligible/
ANOTHAR ENOLISH ACT  INVASION ON MADAGASCAR
Domel. A commmique referring to the offenaive war af ... by
the English against Madagasear, announeed that the English foree
eame at dawn ... a audden offensive agelnat the ports of Majunga,
Ambayan, and Morondava /along/ the west eoast or Madagasear.
.... with te cooperati on of planes ... a diapatah coming from
London sourees, from mhish we know that the Kngl ish ..., David
Churoh /1/, reported that she kngl ish ... now hee new interest
for the lnited states go vermment.
The Indigmation of the Preneh people, commen tm the Domel
ageney or viohy, has inareased on a large seale with the un-
8
deretanding of the . aituation of  gainst the imperial
territory dr Franee. ... all the people of Prance ean reeog-
nise . with whieh Pranee will right until losing the last
soldipr.
. As everybody kmows, the Allied forees earrled out a
landine on the coast ar Dieppe in vain. ... obliged by the
Soviet Union to come ... second front on the European continent.
In spite of the ... the problem or /opening/ a seeurd frons ls
attraosing the attention or the world, for the erisioal war
situatien or the &.lled countries has mot been solved. Quite
the eontrary, at this moment not oniy the ... Afriee ... the
forees of the Axis countries. .... the Englisb ... muddenly
15
begimning of a second Lending on the Freneh ialand of Made-
gasear. ... everyome exeept the Angle-Amerlems will seeririse
....In this respeet, loeal observers believe that the ....
to five them theright of invading the torritory of moutral
sountries. ... her tactios of obtalning advantages . ..
/station 1dentiricati on/
A ... is orgamised in England. Lecording to Lafermation
on this idee from the London newspaper, Dallx Malh, which is
feats surfered in .... Leeal obeervere belleve in unis een-
neetion that all the .... in kngl and in reality have areated to
date .... ezsept the death penalty. ... on the basslefields
mmserous Englisn troops ... dled ... aecording to the Dally a...
Recorts No. 35, 37 and 36 were peeled in error before a
tranelatien hed been mede.

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.85)
BADIO TOXO ADGALL TU BOUT ARICA
.
Good eveming, radio listeners of Latin Ameriea.
/Ratio Tolge sdentirisation./
IMHUNANE AMERICAN ACTS RRVALED
meetiem, the newapaper Tokyo Blahi Mieai publiaké on Junday an
tories, exene: itsels with the motso of justiee and humanisy.
The Roosevelt regime mde the war, and in deaperation for
Ite future beeause it df the defeats suffered, hes revealed ite
represents preelaely the astitude the Ameriean orfi chls have
adepeed towards 13  000 Japanese resident in the states along the
livelihood wi shout aay reason whatecever to jussify it. They
heve obliged the majority of these dapanese to live in desert
Imow het these Japanese have been friende of the inised ssates,
and good moighbers, and do ot deserve ! any way aush inbman
DNDIAN TREATEE!
Domel, shon. Noms from Mew Delhi roveals that in Cal-
ceeur daily w.th the mglish poliee foree.
ENILEN FLAN FAI! IN KOYPT
Mes & from Caire reveale that Great Britalm has extended 18s
eppresscre' hendagainet Eaypt at a time wien she is making dee-
perase e forte in West saia. t Egopt nas vallantly repulsed
hritiah intervention.
- 1 -

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.91)
In the resent sumer, when the Jerman forees wävansed
Into gypt, Ingland  reco mended to King Paruk tha: be take
refuge in the Sudan, but he empha 1eal ly refused. Now Premier
Churoh:ll is domanding of the true ... of Egypt, Mohaowed Ali.
that as the representative of the people of Egypt, b share his
fate with t  English troope, and tale reruge in tie  udan. but
t is was rer used. This has made it evident t:at Britlsh power
is weakening more every day.
DETICULT FOR UNITED STATTS TO REC UIT FAHRN
Mr. Ashley Hawkins, correspondent of he Reuter's agonay,
sent a dispatoh on the llth frm abmerd an Amerioan aruiser.
where he ls now, in whioh be says:
"The United states is malting efforts o construot urgently
ne new warahip after another, and as a result a new snip comes
into serviee every month. The most urgent proulem now for the
hmeriean fleets o nsiste in the foratlon of orew permonnel to
go aboard tte so new ahips."
This reveals that the decroases suffered by the Americen
navy are very mmerous, in sp:te of the great eff rts the
United states is making to hide them, so t hat their rapid re-
eruiting s cmmaldered very difrleult. It is of treat Interest
for the United states to rearuit seamem, /but it is obvious
thas there are few people so stupid as to want to offer up
their lives by embarking on a new ship destined to bo sent to
the bottom of the ses by the Japenese fleet.
/station identirieation./
UNITED STATES SERRS TC CATE ADVANTAGE OF CHAOS IN INDA
wnile the Indiams contimue fi ghting for sheir fatherland, the
Dn1 ted States, uhlee presends to be the standardbearer of liber-
alism md defender of the most philanthropie prineiples, seekm
to take mtvantage of the ahaos eaused by the kngl ish in India.
Accerding to a dlepaseh, the washingt n government, announeed
on the sth that 1t had deelded to send tmerlean teahnidans to
Indla. As is predieted, the goverament added that this la
mesessary : o Inereese she Industrial eapee  ty f the ccuntry to
that the Dadiane are fighting bloody batsles againat Greet
Britatm to cbtain her compd te Independenee, and net rer whas
Anglensmericam eaplsal tetiam whiah 1s finaneing and supporting
● 8 -

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.83)
dsopsteh of
lamded in cartain pointe in shis area.
dispmbeh of ths Domsi 
TRUTH ABOUT EWOLISH SELP: SHONESS
ANGLO-SAXOB CUNBING
/st0c1on 10mmt151emss0n/
TRNTH ANBIVERSARY OP POUNDING OF MANCENURIAN STATE CELEBRATED

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.88)
Mere in Japan, the representatives of the Axis coumtries, met
on te evenine of te l2th to congratulate Mr. Lee, mbesaeder of
Nanahukuo to the Japanese governmeut.
A great publie celebration will be held for 5 daye beginning
the lath in the two oap: tals, Hsingking and Tokyo, with various
formal gatherings, awaiting the exchange of redio broadeasts
with speclal programs between the swo friendly countries.
Italy, the first country to recognise Manahukuo as an inde-
pendent countryg sccordin to announoements from Rome, sent a
message to the Eamchar lan state in the neme of Ar. Alexander Pave-
limni, minister of propaganda of Italy, cordially ongratulating
the imereasing develepment af the country.
Ameng the a to nes menti oned, there was emphasis n the role
whi an the youne mat lon will surely play In establlakipe a durable
poese in the world.
ABUNDANT ARTICLES PROM THE SOUTH ARHIVE IN WORTH CHINA
In the ec-proeperity sphere of ast Asis, has been conapleuous Fer
the greas abundanee af mmterials wleh hes been noted for some
sime. The Domed agemey sell s us now frem a southern peint, thas
there has arrlged In North Chine for the soecnd sime an abundant
earge of riee te supply she populati on of this morthern sone.
IEDUSTRIAL AOTIVITLES ARE AL:EVI TIMS CWEMPLOYMENT PROBLEN DE PHILIP.
10go.
中

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.82)
JURE WILL DE PURS IBHED IN HAB ILA IN SUPPIONENT QUANTITINS TO
SUPPLY THE KAST ASIA O-PROSPERITY SPAERE
Ne are Lar ermed frem Namila thas a now plam hes boen evolved
/00m11/
. Mtri will deliver a leeture:
MLRY SPEBON ATTACKINO ROOBEVELT/
he teld on various escasions several ecmpletely irrelevens anse-
dotes about the deaths ef his meval aviators under the Japenese
astaeks. But the tone and somtents of this last presidential
Le spoke to his andlonee wi t ha eatemary gooular hmer
abouk liberty and alvilisation. The apeeeh real ly wes a temse
But Mm it 10 metable that President Rosevels adaitted in his
apeeeh that the Amerieen nation hes not had suseess in its weer
efforte. These alearly were his words.
"Hou are we as home eurrying ut eur aty to da the wer? The
with astonlahing apeed, while the appearanse of a disestrous in-
flation has come to shatter the eeonomie structure of the nasion.
drastie la done imodiasely, the sost f living vill rise in m
uneontre Lable wey. Ail t é eeemesie syetam would sotter whle
priees and weges weuld inerease with suck aessleratsen that the
war would mount abeve all present cal oulations wi th dovessing
affeets on aivil md military pereme alim.

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.85)
Suet were the words of the pres idens, but the most extre-
ardimary thing in this ... desaription was that Roesevelt put
the blame onCongrees and the people for having oome to such 
situation.
He ealls astenti on to the failure to take adequate meesures
to control priees. Congress succeeded through favoritiam in
conseding preferential treatment to the farmers, and this trans-
and wages rise inereasingly alose to the disastrous inrlation
that will totter the natlen.
Suen is the explanati on siven by President Roosevels, whe
also eeneered his people that they are mot as grend as they
people must abstain free sponding on lumuries. The country moods
war, and will ost the matiom almost l00 milllon dollars in l94s.
And revealing what he thinke or hie omn: people, he warne thems
Sot sattarsed mi the asfendine Congrees and she people, the
Goavoked Congress so thas it would confer on him povers to eser
Bo sasd: "Is Comgresn dose not choese to aet well,
sels will aet ms mee best to m."
These are not the wda of a detater wbe a an es
1d1m
● ● ●

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.79)
a Mo pelletee in tho yess
Inited states La mo mare sham a legleal comseguemes. It was met
precedams in the hie tory of the world. The result was only te
trap the United States in the holocaus't and new the imevitable ...
whem they contemplate the aritical s:tussion they have to con-
5ro.
reebsoning.
There La ne reason to be astontahed thet the Larlasi am hes
that the prest dens has been doing for the last tem yearee And
/0o001m010md

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.92)
TRAD-PACIPIC DETERCEPT. SOPtOmRer 1Ae 1EAR
Redio Tologo Broadeast to Latin Amerles
Reeard No. SS. l0l0 WT. /Spanian.
/stati on anpoumomment. Prequenoles and wave lengths, etc./
As is ouw tomery, we now bring you the latest rewe roports.
TH TENTH ANNIVERSARY OF TE CHHATI H OF  E STAT OP MANCHUKUO
IS CRLEBRATRD
Upon eompleting on the l4th, the l0th yoar sinee the found-
Ing of the Manehukmen nation, we rocall that General MucCoy
/medoy?/, Amerleen ... and aide to the commiaslon of the Le ague
of Wations sent to Manahurle, deelared t at if the nited Stutes
were In the position of Japan and had mobilised as great military
foroes, they would have eonquered the country wi thout granting
them independenee. The obeervati on of the "merloan seneral, who
wouid not comprebend Japan's traditiunal ideal of universal co-
fratermity, is a revelation of the imperialistio ideal of the
governors of the United States. Despite so many slanders dir-
oated against Japan by Bngland and the United tates with regard
to the foundlng of Wanehukuo, the country 1s devaloping brilliant-
ly in every respeet as ti emanoiputed country of Eunt Asia, for
the population hes inereased finally to C00,000 souls, wnile
the bandits who infested the entire country at that time have com-
pletely dise peared.
WKSBAOK O TH  VEREOR OP PRENCH IND-CHINA T THE  VERNOR OF
NADACASCAR
The attitude of England is opposed to Internatlonal law. In
Invading the Imland of dadagasoar they have oxoited the indig-
nat lon of the Frenah and te nat: ve populution of renah Indo-
hine. fie military povernor, admlral de Tue //, hus sont 
message to tho governor,os Madagaaear in whioh be makes known
the montiment of all Prenoh indo-Chine, he saye, is confident
that they will hold the honor of th Frenah aray hich.
ON THF INDIAN RVOLT...
publie places, 3 deed and innumerable wounded resulting from the
mho te or the Engl iah polloe. On the same day In the atates of
Poshive and Biher trere were deaths and wounded in similar clushes.
/stati on amouneemen t/
-1-

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.90)
BNGLAND INDE IS IVE N THE PH OPLEK OF INLIA
Domel, Limbon: A dispatoh from Reuters in London eaye that
Sir trabolci, momber or the inglisn house of Lords, made a
speech on the night of the leth ir whian he omphatioally atated
that ngland, sast:ng aside every fouling f honar, should de-
mand to intervene to solve the problem of India by whieh she
has revealed the dirfioulty in wniah mho finde herselr in the
face of the Indian rebellion.
AS OCIATION  HINDO IUU AI MACHUKUO
Domet reports from Hsingking that, with the objoot of pro-
moting the independense campaign whiah is coing forward with
unpreoedented Lmpetun in their oountry, the Hindus living in
Manahukuo and Keantung territory have organised an assoolation
whose inaugumal eeremony was celebrated In that Manahu city on
HE MOLAINED NS C OPE E : TH I AHDUSTANIS
According to a nows item from Canton, e telegrmm from Now
Dalhi on the 1sth mays that the Mohemmedane who are in Baona /ph/,
protesting against an order of the Britiah government of Indla
whieh disariminuted againet their religiove lire, have begun an
anti-British iemonstration in cooperation with the Rindus.
THE HINDU PA TY, MAHASABA, DEHAHDS AN INTERVIEW NITH IT:
ARUSTED LRADERS
From Lisbon we learn that, weoording to a New Delhi tele-
grame on the 13th, the Mindu Party, Mahasabe, demanded o? the
Britlah governor of Indie that he parmit an Interview with Me-
hatme Oandhi end other Dindu lenders who are prisonere.
THE POO ISH TALK  THE AIMBRICAN PRES  IT EXPIDI I MALY
TPSABRAD
Despite the fuet that the Amerlomn press pompously announces
that the merlean expediti onary armies already a neist o
1.0,Ov0 mn, 1t has reeently beon revealed, upon making the
dlspositi on of the lower houso of resognising the votes of those
troops abroad in the seneral election whieh will take place on
November l1, that the troepe sent overseas de not reach z half a
milllom.
/statiam sdentsrieatian/
一 8 -

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.91)
GOO,OOO TICALS OF C TTON IN THF CELEBES WILL BR HARVESTED
As ... of their tireless efforte, the Japanese mutherities
have susceeded in putting into exeeution the funetlonal plan for
the inarease in cotton produstlon on the islmd of Celebes wnich,
ascording to the teohniolams, together witn Philippine Ialand, is
land oxoollently suited for she oultivation of that plant. Thanks
to the onthusiastie cooperation a lent by the islandere in the
southern part of the ialand, only en extensi on of 4,00 hectars
has already beon completed.
89.00  UNKY Z AN
Domei, Berlin. The Dm agoney confirmed that during ome
weck, starting the 7th, the Nasi submarines susceeded in sink
Ing enemy ships with a displacement of 229,s00 tons.
TIY  TS A PROPOSAL OF . WILLE
He are informed from Istanbul that a telegrem from Ankare
says that the Turkiah government has rejeeted the proposal of
Hr. illkie, speolal envoy of President Roosevelt, that they
ferm a oommon defens:ve lime in cooperation with Iran. s0-
cord!ng to the news, the -urklsh covernment stated that they
had resolved not to beo  involved in the present war.
HARD C HAAT C NTINU S IN STALINOHAD
A dispetah from the omel agenay says chat moeording to a
fr nt dispatah, the Cermans on the Isth inteneiried their of-
fensive against Stalingrud despite the furious resistanee of
the soviets, and susceeded in taking possession of important
new enemy bases. In addition, as a Gomsequenee or Cerman for-
ees havine arr:ved at the banke or the Volge liiver to the north
and south or stal Ingred, the Rede fogund themeel ves obl1ged to
take advantece of the darkmess of night to su ply wer mmterial
In very reduoed quentities to the defenders of the eity. During
the latter part o: the 3rd, the resiatanee o! the Russlans was
noted to be muoh weakened and exhausted.
/stat1n annoumoement/
OENERA NACARTHR W.SHEB T JUTIFY HIS DESPICABL C:NDUOT OF
HAVINO ABAND NED HIS TRCOPS IN THE PHILIPPINES
no ure informed that General Mao Arthaur, ex-commander of
Ameriean troops in the Philip Ines who is in Australin /arter/
having esomped from the arehilpel ago, perbape to justiry his
despicable conduct in abandoning his soldiers in the Philippines,
save instrueti ns to the roope of his country statloned in
Aus:ralie that the surrendering of e laiers is permisseble only
when they find temeelves unable to assaek the amemy.
-8 -

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.93)
THNITY BETNEEN FNOLLH AND AWERICANS IN EOYPT
We are informed from Istanbul that aecording to reliable
information from Cairo, t e expeditionary /forees/ on the Ehyptian
fronts have openly refused to remain under the command
Record Ro. 70. 16l4 mT.
of the British commender, which ls aausing a delioute and
aritioal aituation between the two sides.
The Amerieans say, acoording to the report, that the honer
 the United States doss not pormit them to romaim under the
arders of the defeated forees of Eneland.
PAPEN SHORTAOK APPAHENTLY INCHLASINOLY SHVERE IN ENGLAND
ecordine to the London radio Bas, on the 1lth, due te the
Increasingly severe peper shortage in England, the English gov-
ernment warned the people on the ilth that it will only permit
the use of fixed quantisies of paper for letter eorrespondenee
of the greatest emergeney. The sending of Christmas presents
to the United Statea and Canade 1s prahibited.
AXIS SUBMARINK OPERAT:NO IN CAUIEAN
Domel, Lisbun. Reports coming from London reveal that an
Axls submarine operating in the Caryimean See penetrated as far
as Carlyle Bay on Barbedos Island, Fnglimn territory in the
Lesser Antilles, torpedoing the ahipe whien were anehored in
the bay. It was added that be subearine asseak lasted 25
minutes wi thout yet knowing in detall whet dmage was caused.
/Conalus10d

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.89)
TRANB-PACIPIC TNTEROEPT. SOPEEMDOP 15. 1908
RADIO TOLYO BROADCAST TO LATIN AMERICA IN SPAFISH.
Roegrd No. 80. 1611 HWT.
Good evening, radio listenere of Central and South Ameriea.
Radio Tokyo presents special programs in Spaniah at this hour
espeeially direoted to you. /rrequeney, ete. given./
CRURLTY WITH WHICH AMERICAN AUTHORITIKS RAVE TREATRD JAPANESE
Referring to the unjustirlebly inhmame treatment accarded
the Japanese detained in the United States, espesially those
on the Calirernie ecasts, by the Ameriean ofrieials, revealed
tuta lisd Japenese in Árisona, and deel ared in his artieles
published in the mage ine "The Nation," that there is no
from the west coast m to the interior, hes been greatly eom-
feeling, and politieal sorruption, sinee she Japemese were
arrested and transferred to the Interlor of she state of Arisoms
under the pretext of being involved in some ariminal affair,
whian could not be confirmed.
In the coneentrats on camp of ...., Arssome, the detaimees
their werk, gathered as the eost of whe kmeve hew moek soeat
and seeririeing?
fornia eeast to the Laterier of Arisona, rowded tegotheer l2ke
the butt-onde as their piatele and ether wonpeme.
●1●

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.92)
In Missoule an old man of 70 or 80 yours was foreed to work at
horses' stables of the police, without be g paid a cent.
An: the woret or this is  at te amerioan offiolmls stripped
the Japalese who were embarking i on t e steamer for Japan of
everythine they wore takine. Hadio rokyo has .... nly the radio
listeners of the entire erld, und espeoially those in the United
States, that the repreme tut:ves of Amerioan aut ority robbed
the Japan se in auch a contomptiule manner of everything they
possessed, taking advantage of the helploss aituntlors in which
tose detu nees found tremeelves.
PC Y BLE TRY PATI NCE ITE ATE  VERLT
e ase insormed trat the unile  late goveriment has hnd /?/
Sonator Prentiss rowm drast the projeot of a law to impede
monetary Inflatlun. Sinee the infiation problem has ggravated,
alandest:ne transeotions are ...... lir. enderson, chief of
the ofrioe of Prioe Adminiatrution, in recognition of the arieis
in prioe-conteol which tre ofrice is direoting, declared bitterly
that is s me moumure ss not tamen the I inrlation crisis will
continue to got more severe, as it is impossible to cope with
 atate of affairs more aritiomi toan he present.
SUP LY HOUTT PON CHLANO KAI-LHEF IS INIPPACT VE
espite the fact that the Chiang Kai-shek governmont in
making propagande /to the effoot/ that their new supply route
from Indin in no effoetive that it fulfilis the neods of trans-
port of mteriel, the correspondent of the Uniteu Press in now
Delni, reported the rollowing on the lgth:
The transportation of materiel for chiang Kai-shek is im-
possible during daytime, whlle the Japanese air foroe .....
Therefore it cun be oarried out only during the night. In the
Chinese aerial bases their landing trails are indicated by 11-
luminated with turches. It le obvious from this that such noo-
turnal transpurtation is diffiouit und dangerous ut the same
time. This sugrests thut tiis transportation Cupacity is of
slight onsideration.
/station announoemont./
CHUNORING N REDP CTS UNITED   PHO PAGANDA
The inglien newspaper hational lierald of semi-ofricial
chungking anaraoter, pablianed on the leth an editorial entitled
"we must destroy Japan firat" In whion he sald:
"Many people insist that we must firat destroy Germany, but
me insiet tiwt it is neeessary to liquidate Jupen firet, for the
Allies are obliged to dietribute the bulk of thoir foroes on the
Paeirie fr it besause of the Japanese menace. Japan is a nuval
一.8 -

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.90)
power, contiued the newspaper, anc ir a ite of hor dofeats
aufforod thns far In the maritine batties, Ja an cntinues
:1 tine .s borore ii. v.ry diatant sp. os, thanke to her
navy and or nuorous tranepurt flect. it in meen in t is
th t they ... morioun proparunde as to the ... oalsed in the
waters      idy. d nverthles he iol
cont1nm8
"The Japanese naval power is stiii existent, und conatitutes
the preutent monace to the United staten."
It is worthy of n te that t.ie newopaper is direutinf a
violont attack on Amerioan propu arda of iriumphs .... t one
aido.
THUTH  DAMAI A EDY JAPAS  CH ARB D
Although the nasni: gton sovernment, wsth the Intent: on of
hiding the truth about the damage aaused b. trhe Japanene in
Duton lHarbor, in the Aloutlans, continues making ralse prope-
gande stating that the damage was insigniricant, the Amerioan
magasine Life" of the loch of Lust month, unier the title
"üreat damage caused at utcn arbor" published numerous photo
graphs witn their correspondentu' co ments. In one of them are
seen soveral uil depots envolope in the flamer of fire caused
oy the Japanese bomba; in another, the sinking o: un Amerioan
steaumer "N rthwestern" and in unother, the riremen in the port
unable to do thoir job for luok of water.
.vontinuing cheu the magaxine finally saye thet the hrerloan
foroes surfered for a seo nd time the damagem of Pearl Harbor
in Dutan liarnor, whian aloarly indloated that the Amerloan people
are very diesatiafied with the attitude or their government,
whian hides all the detaile, not nly of the progress of the
war, but also these thut oocur in the interiur of the country.
STRIR IN TH LAHOET INDIAN IPA Y P.CT RY
we are informed from Shanghai that the Amerlean correspondent
w:lllam .. who as in India, on returniing to nashington, has
mede publie the strlke of the indian laborere &n the largost
milltary faotory in Indie, a fmotor /./ whioh the ondon por
ernment keepe searet.
AMEHICAK AMDASSADOR M ANKAIA WI HKSION
ae are informed from Istanbul that a telegram from Ankara
states that the Amerloan ambassador to the government of Turkey,
Ur. Steinhardt, will soon leave the furkish eapital so return
to his own sountry beeause of the condition of his health.
● 3 •

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.94)
Record No. 81. 161s HWT
It ie known fron well-informed souroem that be was summoned
by ir. Huli, Seeretary of State, as a result of the total
fallure or the mieslon of Hr. willkio to urky.
/station announoement./
PAILUNE OF NES LANDINO OF  IBD PORCES N THE PRENCH COAST
The Allied forees whieh recently vainly carried out
a f uitless landing in Dieppe, tried again to offeet/ land-
Ing on the Prench coast east of Cherbourg //. Aecording
to news from Berlin, as son as they landed on the coast on
the 13th almost all the ngl ish soldlere were arrested by
the soldiere of the orman garrison. In addition, a British
ship wan sunk by oannon fire.
ILISH PLANEC INK AN ITALIAN HOSPITAL HIP
" are informed that the Italian hospital ship "Arno"
sunk on the 9th in waters of the ooast ofr Tobruk beeause of
an attuck earried out by English planes. It is maid that the
ship fortunately did not have any woumded or siek on board but
that there were many nurees. This is not the firest attaeak
realized by the enemy agalnst Axis hospitals, as we remamber
that a Japanese hospital sh1 wus sunk on January 13 by an
enemy submarire in mouth Chine waters, and othere were attaeked
by enemy planes in waters of the island of Timer. "uoh an
Inhuman act of the enemy alearly eommitted against inter-
nationel law Is indeed shameful. The committers of such oruel
and unjustifiable sets will have to suffer the consequenee,
as Itely 1s obllged even against her will to retaliate for the
Axis eountries.
THE INVINCIHLH WAR OROANIZATILN F JA AN
ue are inrormed from Lisbon that a Routers dispateh
from Capetown says that the British ex-ambassador to Tokye,
Sir robert Craigie /?/ who 1s on the way beak to London en
the Japanese-British exehange stemmer Xl Nil, told newspaper
men who intervlewed his on the 13th upon his arrival at the
port that Japan has established an invineible organisatio,
both pelitieal economle and military, to earry the war thru
to ne and.
NANCHUKUO HAS MADE OREAT PHOGRESS
The Manehu empire eelebrated its tenth anniversary
of its founding on she lsth. In both Hsingking and In Tokye
variows commomorative funetions to k plase for this reason.

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.91)
In the oourse of these ten yoars, Wanchukuo has been changed
into a great empire. Ite populution at the time of its
founding wa 30..0.,000 wn110 t0day 1t 1. 43,000,000. Its
stute budcet l0 yemre aro was l0c,000,000 yon while now
1t comes to 2,598,000,00. he Japanese 1nvestment 1n-
creaned from i.750, 00, 000 yen upon the found1: of the
empire to 7,155, 00,0λ. rhese f1 ures are tho most elo-
quent o: ali. It is expected thut this surprising Man-
chukuan progress will ontinue permanently.
with tliis last item, wo ond the newe in panimh
unt11 i:o0 p. m. shurp, okyo lime, or about 9: houre
fror now, whon we wiil rosent :he ne we in : penieh on
che 1 , a5 and 31 motor bonds on froquenoien of 15,170,
11,800 ar.d 9575 kilocyales respect1vely. we wil1 now
hear u brier musical interval uftur whiah we present
a short b oture by Mr. Iwanaki, our famous radlo com-
montntor.
Hocord No. 8l. mocond outting. l6go HhT.
/Operator a parently forgot to turn on reoorder.
intirn outting 1 ilent./

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.85)
TRAB PACIPIC TC T. Soptonber 16, 1942
BADIOKTO TOI DICA
1608 ! T
dood evenin. radio liotonors ? Ltin orice.
/Radlo T kyo icontlrioation./
T A  CAD  BY ALAV
URICAN TR TURY.
According to nows from San runclooc, Lio Japanese nir force
offootod on the 9th its first attmok on the contineutal territory
or the Uoe, ombius a plaoe in the scuehwest f the atate of
uregun with inoundiary bombs. The m rioan military cfriclals
are ettemptiie io coln the consualon amcne the poople in tat
distriot.
AL LUI CA DY JAV CAND
OTT CONYUI N
The attaok carried out on the 9th by the Ju anese nir foree
agalnst a cortain p int in Crogon, U.s., wns announced on the 14th,
oy the wuthoritles of this ocuntry. artor navine concealed it for
several daye to c ln the reell cs or the populnce, maying that
the Jo anese planen bombed a forust. icrioan stateent hom
ever, does not perve the purpose of dunyine the fuet tiat the
J panese ais foroe earried throurn its rirst alr attask agaiast
he uotural terr t ry cf o o.d tho .u rloun poople will
realize chat to Jn unese pluneo oon carry cut ittuok araiust
this ooustry, orossing the Iine ounmeotlng tiw Aloutinna to
australin, tho urh they do nct attaok civilinn cota lial wnts, but
nly militnry onos.
VALURS  CIN. Y L.ILIXI
lir. ondell illkie or couree failud in ie mission ho under
took in ur:ey. as he proposed to nogotlate the entry of at con-
try into i he war. It is beliwved in this reapeot thnt the only
be a cruahing viotcry in
est sin, end ir the ov let Union iapruves its positiun Ie the
Caueasus. ell noquaicted with these alrxst rapossible ounditions
to overocrse, und sure or hie foiluse, the .er loan president
dlotator, gave to ir. illkie his mt du urous rival in the
ruture vleoti ns, the lmpossiule misuicn or brincl. the Turkish
guvernmut Lato his oump.
-1-

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.87)
PSDT ROO T  T  LUF ICILY P  PRODOTIUN
TY
. Routers diomton rm ashaucton seya that dospite lhe
brageart propopande ? the wrer: oan a vern unt about the indus-
trial wwr oupecity, reslident wosevelt rovouled on the l4th
in the lecisluturo ongress he insurriolenoy r the war pro-
duotlun of hio cou:try, euyins that the presant produotion of
armment is very iiroricr to thut of ciund und the oviet
Cuicn, attainlit at the proaont time only so crcont of ite cape
oity. The Iresident added tiat ir rmrioun incustry cainot
mohiuvo pro uction in Its aximus oa.o ty, cho lllod countries
will not bo culo to win finl viotory.
/sta:lon ldentirlcution./
dmmrican  repacanda . aleel!
Dempite the feot that the U.. olaims 3 rest viotorles, the
naval battlos in e Coral eu, Midmy. and the oloons, it has
not even publlahed its lo ses. The nost ridéoulous /reature/ is
that the U.s. is aprondint the rupurt that us a coneequenee of
these 3 navul viotories, the Japanese fioet hns received suoh
enor ous loasee that it In nut in a conditlon to o ntinue fight-
Int. But persplonolous /i/ :on of the untire world, oxoept in
the U.. and riund belleve the comualque or he Japanese
coneral headquartera, whian ridioules the results cr the battles
faleuly announoed by the U.s.o understann the payancloey of
the losare, wtho an not announoe the fuets as they are, but the
mrioan propegandists ahould realizo thst false propegande will
do then noro durace than silenoe.
MAED  T I ILL    
 UNT. TAT
Accord ue to reports, aneral Lewis B. Rerahey, director
of military service in the U. S., in the session or tho cuneral
meet ng of the reserves of the stete of New Jureey, cave a speech
In whioh he sald: "In the U.3. berore the end cr 1943, rarrled
man and men with children will be enlisted in the ry' /iot
certeim where direet quotation ands. "rans./ Tis is not per
seribed ln the lew for mllitary morviee now Ls foree, but the
U. . wall not be able to aularge its roroes withcut metine in
this way. It is bellovod   result thct the aricans will
rall viotims of the amuislon of the iotet r, ires. lloosevelt,
and will be lead away by foree te ar, beins soparused frum
resuls whlen the Amerieem dletator mhould ocsslder, he who with-
cut rulrillins his publle promise nct to onter te war, iavolved
the U. s. Ln the comrllet.
-2 -

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.87)
TTE ABOUT RECNT L   ATTIUDE  OODNO 
CHIANG : A-SHRK
Coineiains ainost by mireele in their praime, the Manahester
Cuardian or gland nd :be New York Times or the U.S., now
anpuasize thet wosterners ahould modiry their ancient icee of the
orlontale, e diy thet thoir treatment or the Chineee muot be
carried on in the ruture on a basis of complote feeling of im-
partiality. nis opinion, appurently vary noble and progressive,
Is nothine but the prolude of an ingenlous progrom that will moom
develop to make enerul Chiane partielpate in the supreme ilitary
Confuronce or the illlee, whion will take plaos in vashington.
 the swe time Chiane's wire will be iavited so the U.s. England
too will huve sped al envoye. These teotios will not even be able
to deouive tne hungkine ople, observers here say, not will the
Urientals on the llied line ........ in those who ue making
.......... manoouvers vith £reet coquettishnoss.
Raara Ne 1614 1T
A BURDI  TH CAACITY F ART DE TRPORTAND/U.B.
Ve are informed that an agreemont was rouohed betwemn the
ovietmbessedor ud the i comiLoner of Canade in nland
on the supply of a lu: e quantity of Danadhn wheat to the Doviet
Union for the appruecting winter due to the fuct that the Union
rinds itmelr in dirrieulsies im gotling so odstu fe because of
havine lost the Ukraine, wnleh wae the Cianary of the Union.
The nows roveals iu itsels the poor fate of the war resistanee
of the soviets, possibly hating reaced te ecgo or sollapee of
its war esunary.
TR  AH  DOR  YSTU ACTIO OF THE
JOLDIDERS C RDG SUN
A Reutors dis ateh rron Brisbane says that the Australian
soldlers, woudor on the iow ulnem front, on heir returm
stased toir impresslons re arding the cumbat whioh they carried
on witn the Jupanese in the Lich forests of the 1alund. They
say timt vIth ezceilent camourlege the Japenese forees which
apprceobed tum witlicut be'ne alsoovered adva oed wirely to the
attack, foroine ien ic flee withcut cirme to tuke up telr w
pons.
/.lation Ideatirioction./
LN INT N T OT CHUN .
Sume Ju mnese obserrars are : the opinian chat London Ls
followins ........ mwiraly she mame fate as Chungking. In she
seme way that chiang Xal-sbek, witn tinw objeotive as develeping
the autidapanese frous, sumaned she uld of  nd and the
-3-

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.96)
Soviets, Premier Churehill mo as to promote favorebly the
Gorman front looked for the aid cf the U.S. and the  oviet union.
The sume as Chiane Kai-shek, the nolend Pramier round hiself
obliged /to allow/ in lish turritory to be visited /7/. hnow
ing the terrible conseguences of ............., Churohill has
kra.ted talin the riht to direo the world in ......... of
iuland, to compensate fcr hor inablility of bringing about
the for ation of the second front whioh the soviet Union de unds.
Not oontent with this, tley continue to inslst on the opaning
of a seocnd front. Thus it may be said that ng and han just
made un initial step towards being converted » into a second
Chungking.
CUNFTRE CE O LIDIAN P.UBLEM
The Dome1 of toekholm via è dispatoh fram hashington
a nounees that President Hoosevelt neld the Puolfio military com
ferenoe on the 15th to treat the Indian problem and the situation
of China. The measion lasted a long tame. During all this time
the question of India wus the object or ineessant Iire. Mr.
alter Nesh, Now Zealand delegate, stressed after the conference
finished that Indie as an Allied offensive base, should be guar-
anteed with all uvailable eens, and predioted the Anglo-Ameriean
intention of using it.
However, aocording to a dispaton from New Delhi, Mr. Reginald
. Marwell, heed of the depart ent of interior of the government
of Indim, a nounoed on the 15th in the House of Cormmons that the
Indian situation is graver than is supposed.
PROGR-SS  AICHUKUO IN LAST N YEATS
Ten years have pe.
uoan
protocol was signed on
obtained
by Manehukuo in these 1
ooa astonishing. The faet
alone that a model olty has suddenly appeared, named Hsinking,
with 300,000 inhabitants, in the center of a very vast plain,
is enough to make one understand such progress. It is super-
fluous to may that the 5 year industrial plan initiated in 1937,
has doubled the economio value of the natlon.
The bandits in Manehukue were notorious. When the Manchu-
kuoan Ineident broke out, sheir number was estimated as about
300,000, whereas now almost no vietims of sueh bandits are to
be round, whioh is an eloquent testimony or the improvement in
the publie order of Manehukmo.
As for edueation, primary sehools are found ia the entire
compess of the country. It is expeeted that in the mear future,
there will be no 1lliteraey in Manehakue. We may reeall in
tlis conneeticm that England hes govermed India for e peried of

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.89)
some 200 years. Mevertheless, tho pereentage of Ind lans who
know how to reed and write is vory moall.
/Conolusion.//
/Announeer:/ You will now hear a speeeh by the famous
comentetor Lr. Immsaki.
Gentlemen of the /redio/ audionee:
The Americen searetary of state Mas revealed that the U.S.
has establlmhed bases on the Calapagos Islande, 700 miles wost
of ehe Louedor. lir. Curdell liull himself dealared that the net
was carried cut in mccord with the comand of se sovernment of
Doundor, and that finelly these new beses will ome under the
control or the Navy Departmant of the U.S.
Arter the capture was urfeeted, arter the U. S. construeted
Its miiitary and naval basee there, asser tho irrevosaule rait
eccompli mas ano deed, the Leuedorien autharities tried to ex-
plain that this blow wae struek witu the acm lote kmowledge and
ubeolute upproval of ouador.
The capture or tarritory belanging to a non-belligerent
Letlon w uld under orainary clreumssances be tho cause or an
encemoes senestion. Dut the world bas beccne ineensitive during
the lapt fow montbs to the capture of noutral territories and
non-beliigorens nations.
The Calapacue Inlaxds are a now ar:iriee wthish closus the
Syria, Irad, Lran, Timor, and Madapscar. Usin the pretext
and Amerlee have now adopted the ouatom ar mond ing thoir asand
forees to innceent and derenseless peutrul torritories in order
to extend their military aud polisieal scntrol beyond the exten-
sive posessiome now under their imperialime. Is is possible
thas the U. . Ls biindly pretending that this final capture
ls another stroke motivated by strategle necessities, but beyome
 coubt the cowstries of Latin srien know vury wall  what
this algmlries, It ouns thet she coicsscs or the porth, not
euatent with xivine out cr ere from a distanse, ius tranererred
wish all its weigist to the south, causins the pressure to be
felt sven more whieh thtke far ahe has been aareisine vver the
Soush Amerloam tlons. Por a lons ti, the U. . has coveted
1627 0
the Galapagce Ialande whlen heve great strategle value. It will
pezmis she eriesa Flees to suntrol Sie ccasts of Keuedor, Pure
and chile, plecine the U.s. in a favarable poa:sium to subjeet

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.90)
theee eountrles. The present war bas gi ven the United states
an oppertunity to realise her ambition. Since she entered this
war, the barrlers whler have obatruoted the path of Amerlean
ambition, wi th regard so the Latin-Amerloun countries, have
been arosned ume after the other. Pirst wan the projoot af con-
tinental solideritys the United States tried to foree all the
countries of both merloan continents into the war whian is com-
plotely alien to them. The sma lest and wakest South Amarican
countries, alose to the United  tates, as is natural do not
possess any power to reniat and the world bebeld the ludiorous
speetaale of seeLng Nicarague, Cuba, and other amall countries,
sub joetn of the collosus of the north, solemnly deolaring war
on the countries of the axis. he other stronger nd more dis-
tant republics tried to avoid the ressure which tmariee exer-
aised on thom, but rimally they hud to suooumb and ware obliged
to break cfr diplomatic relatlons with the Axis. Only Argentime
and Chile, wich re the most powerful of aI the ouh Lmerieem
countries und alao tie most distwit, were valiantly able to main-
tim their noutrality. Dut the United States was not satisried
/and/ is ane wore able to sue eed in drugging all the Latin amers-
can countries into a state of beli igereney, the United States
aould then, under the pretext of carrying out war plans, mesume
the absolute control f all of Latin Americe. Therefore, s 
result of her efforts, Brasll was mhortly afterward obliged to
deelare war agaimet Garmany and Italy, and the other South Amer-
ean countrlum begam to feel the foroe of she pressure whieh can-
simued to inerease.
All this oulminates now in the eapture of the Galapagos and
the port er Santa Elene. Tnis stationime or the Umited Stases
Army and Navy Ln theee seetors sigmirien that all the weat soast
of Bouth, Amariee is now under direet insimidation by the Uaited
States. we eam imagine what will happen to the parhape al-ready
blew, the United Stases has lifted the veil from its imperial-
Latie dosigns in Lasin America. The pretext of the Good Meigh-
bor Polley has disappeared foreve.. Lmee 1t serves no purpese.
of South Amerlean territory by naval and military forees Having
falled in ite latemtions of recovering the terriseries whi eb
Japan dispessed her of in the southwestern Pasifie, the United
states is now trying to & resoup ber lesses throwing herself
Ualted stases./annoueer e 
Thes le the end of the leeture by the fameue ee mentator
Imasakd.
1
/nm of reeeresng on esrouss./

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.93)
TRANE-PACIPIC INTERCEPT. SORGOMDEF 17. 1942.
RADIO TOKYO BAOADCA T PO SO. ANBRICA IN SPANISH.
Hooord No. 13. 16l0 HWT.
Good evening, radio listeners of Latin -merioa.....
/Radio rokyo identirioetion./
NEW JAPANESH PHBION MINISTEH NANFD
Mr. Musayuki Tani, president of che Informatlon buroau, was
named on the l7th as Japa ene minister of foreign affairs. After
Wr. Togo resigned on the lst for personal reasons, the post of
fareign affairs was filled temporarlly by Premier Tojo.
we reeall that the new minister was at one time in lusy Under-
minister of foreign affairs. e is now 5 years old.
WAVE OF TERHOR S PREADS THPCUOH E ITF STATEB
On the gth of the present month, at a tl wen the erlean
people were full of warlike fervor, moved by the worde of their
dictator president, there pecurred the rirst Japanese aerial ex-
ourslon over ite territory, whien had alreudy been visited by
our submarires whien brought an adequate anewer to the boastrul
words of the president, bombing the coasts of  anta Barbare, Van-
couver, an: Oregon. With this first merial exoursien, the state
of regon, pert on the west ooast of the Paciric, was again
placed wder a direot Japaneso attack. This fact has beon the
cause of the greatest fear amone the Amerloun peeple whe see that
oven the coasts of their country are defenseless.
UNITEDI TATES TRIES  WIN ARONATINA BY TS PWKH P DO LARS
L mel, Buenos Aires. Diotator Roosevelt hes an ouneed he Ls
negotlating with Argentine and Chile to agree on a paot for
armamon: loans. In this conneetion, authorities of argentins
assert that negotiations are now In progress, but that au aeoord
between the two fovernments hes not yet been reaohed. It is alee
reported thut the United States has indioated to Arpentine thet i8
1s prepared to ar:ange è pact for an armament lean or l00 millien
doliars, adding that it is because f a similar proposal that the
president of Chile plans to make a viait to the United States
un the gind or next month. The world is fo llowing with great
Interest the dollar polioy a the United Statee, with which she
Intends to break by means of her enormous material preasure, the
noutral ity of these worthy republics.
/station Sdentiriontion/
一10

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.92)
ARG ATINA REAF LNNS N UTRALITY
Comel, Viol.y. & dimpatah coming from Buenos niros, reports
that the omittee or foreign affuirs of t: lower house of Ar-
gentine, having deliberatod on te projeot of immediutely break-
Ine of: relations witn the  xis, hes refusod it by a majority
vute, ano has rearr rmed hor unalterablo polloy o neutrality.
UNITD STTES C NPIRNS INKIN T CARI R YORKTOHN
The Amerloan Navy department announced an the loth that the
carrler Yorktown was sunk by the Japenese on the 7tn of last
June in the Battle of Midway, the announeement having been post
poned until now, so a not to lot the Japanese know. This is 
very ourlous matter because the mentioned earrier wa: liated as
sunk in the Battle of the Corai Ses in the Japanese headquarters
communique, no more recently than on the Bth of May, and the
ourriers anterprlse wnd dornet in the Battle of Widway. The
Amerloun naval officials kiom better than anyone else shat the
Yorktown and knterprise are of t • se alass, henee the ezeuse
is very slightly ..... Ne oan Imaiire how great would bo the
noral blow to tie Amerioun people if their government announoed
to them in one stroke the number lost ships, so It goes on
making announcewonts us the losses little by little at a very
slow rate, scmetimes 3 months aster the event, as in the present
case of tin Yorktown, whioh, aster uli, In e good cnnfirmation af
the exactness and promptness of the announoements of the Japenese
generul hoadquarters.
PHGLAND SUPPER C AL SHORTATE
Ne are insormed that England, whiah has been boauting abous
her prodigious coal produotion, feels a greus ahortage of this
fuel because or the onormous dimanltion of her produetion due te
the lack of labor. The result is shat in this soming winter, the
Engliah will nave to suffer muah for It. The Engl!sh ofriolals
are instructine thelr people in the dumestle esonomy o? coal to
save some l0 mi llon tons. Nevertheless the experts in the busi-
ness bel ieve that sudh measures of the government will do very
l1ttle to save the situation whian has beecme desperate.
EX-MINISTER OF CARADA IN UNITED STATES
CLARIPIES AMBITIONS F P:ES. R OSEVELT
It ls noserloue that the present werld wer broke ous be-
sause uf the mmbitiom of Presldent Roosevels whe wanted to is-
herit the Brisish colenies in order to ebsain world dominatiem.
It is motable that Mr. Williem Marris, ex-minister or Cmnada im
the United states, nas reeen tly deelared shas te ebtaln the fimal
Leader. tr. Roosevels is the most sulsable peraem fer the
pesiti on of commender-is-cnter of these peeples. Mr. Omurehaill

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.91)
will have to yield to him the command of allthe Allled forees,
together with distatorial politieal power. The statoment of
the ex-mimieter of Canada seemm to be an Angl lsh proposal to
offer resident hoosevelt all the Britisn sorritory so that he
will aehieve his mbition.
/stati on 1dontlrlomtion
POSSIBLA C NLICT OF INTENASTS BE PKEN
ENGLAND AN UNITED TAKS VI IRAN OIL
Dompite the fmct that Amerioan propaganda publimies the
Impertance of Mr. billkie's vleit to the countries of the Near
East, wall-informed eircles observe that possibly Engle d and
the inited States will find themselves in oanfliot over te
Iran oil beoause of the arraigement greed upon by the govern-
mont of Iran and Mr. willkie portaining to the su plying or oll
to the United states, for it is well-kiowm that the nglisn
aspired to otein I the entire production.
INTENTI WS ARE T SACHIFJC: INDIA
A dispatch from Wushington of the leth says that &n the
Pacirio military oonference of th sue day, the subjeet or the
war was treated on the basis of utllising Indie to sareguard
the allied defensive. This is a revelation of the truth, now
so often attosted, that the words liberty and juatice are no
more than deceitrul watanwards an wmlan the Anilo-sax ne lay
hande when it suits their interests.
INCRL HD SOVILT DEBATLSFAOTION
The German general headquartere announeed on the loth the
occupatlon of the central station or talingred, indleating
the preolpitoue unroldirig or the war. cut despite the daigerowe
situation of the Hed Toreen, the Unit ed Etates ani lingland remain
hesltant, and takm no stepe towards sending tanks asd plaies,
the lack or mhlan is th weakest point or the Sovlet nion. To
hide thelr inactivity a amals landing on the 13th at dawn was
attempted on the Pronen ecast in the vioinity of Clerbourg. all
the partielpants fal:ine prisuners. The same fate foll the
Allies on tholr uttempted landing u: Tobruk, Nort. Afriea. Suen
Impotenay of the Allled forees has exasperated in the highest
degree the leaders of the Soviet Unlon, to suah e point that 
break in the tie linking them to the anglo-Yanke Is poesible.
SHORTAGE OF O DS IN CHUNOKIKO AOORAVATED
we are Informed from Cunton that aocerding to the tale of
an inhabitant of Kwenling whs same as a rerugee, that life In the
sones of the Chungking rogime is very difrloult because of the
eearelty af arBlales. He saye that one ean't find soep or towels
ribing. Hiee, the prindipal fo d of the hinese,
. 3.

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.90)
goard ho. lt (firot out) l6ll i. /ountinua/
hes hed a 40 percent decrease ir. thie year's harvent, due to the
leck  fertliizer. The : ar-ere timrofore are abe lutely forced
to ber the overnment ror the entire rice urvert, as :oy mrdly
have enou for their ustenance.
/01us1.
We will now begin our apecial program in commomoration of the
annivereury o' the independence of hile. You will nw hear t o
Chilean mational anthem.
/us1α
Rocord N. 1 (segond ut) 1622 mT.
/The speooh following: is spoken in the woret spanish this
tranmlator has yet hoard on  adio Tokyo. It will ie diffioult
for South amorlon to understand a man who atuttere so bucily./
... Chiloams, I have the distinguished honor of representine //
in Tokyo the Nipron - Chilean society, and in Buch u capacity,
It is very agreeable for m an this Uhilean indeperdence day to
alute the govermment an people  this nution in name or
Japamse institutions. It is a ploasure tu ansirm tht your
country has ome to the decision f keeping its freindship with
diis mpire, but it ls not surprin r beoause, aince ite be-
ginnings, Chile has aonstantly beon distinguiehed wmong the
pooples or South  wmriea by the aliaraotorlatlos of a valiant and
darine pere nality. This pereonality has broadened // and con-
solidated in the midet of bitter strugsles alnst the obatacles
raieed agalnst the country's progress. The thiloans rave strug-
gled at all times ... courage /i7, ani have succeeded in placing
themmelves in the rirst rank among the republios of Latin Ameriee.
The firet /:/ oonqulatadores were sent t chilo aster the kin:
of Spah carried on ..... These rirst men organized Cille ...
and reeeived the powerrul insluanses emenating frm : • seo-
traphieal con@itions of the territory ... ani kopt a superior
stamp on its polities and its economy. In this labor und ....
business, tho e lonies . . suataining the Chiloun race /apemer
stumbling here waree than ever. lHe may have mike fright./
Chile nae objectd and subjeotive elements whiah ... mo rully
/ia/ her pride, her sublimity with ... ? blood, the heritage
has inflweneed her destiny, bringing out the greatest aplendor
that the eharaeter of the amcient aonquistadoree posmesscd. Fer
this reason your people may be eonsidered moat authentic heirs
of spenish sulture, cemprising a sesular ... whiah shows that they
eame from Greeee by wey of Rume /%. Bere also we f nd the seeret
.. with which is adopsed she resolution of maintaining moutrality
In she war ef Greater Enst Asla. It hes overeome a real neeessity
alr rerent from the very dispesitlan of the people. we ean go Inte

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.91)
other dirferent ... in ... of Cnile as it is an importent plam
at the moment. ut we do not determine, es is mesessary, ...
that they will mever change their neutral eonduet. This would be
an act not in weping with the tredislon and spirit of thas great
republle ... in the course of its exiesonse, which is a guerantee
of the grandioee ... and eplendid ruture of the nasion. Thus,
united Chilean people, 1s your glorlous treditlon ... the nation
whiah God nas oonfided to us /17.
I alose by sending my best regards together with my sinsere
.to the men or hile and to all the other ....
/nnnounoer:/
Mr. Eij1 Xawasaki, formerly aharge d'afraires of Jepen in
Chile, representing the Marquis Tokugawa, president or the Wippom-
whilean ociety, has just delivered e greetin, In omemoration
of the anmiversary f the indopend of chile.
Now M. Gustavu labareu Garas, correspondent ar she nows-
paper " 1 imparelal" uf santlago, will promounee a areeting to
the Chilean people.
It ls the ... Intimate rojoioing /to eotablian this brier
sommunleation with the cistant home land In thas while a mortal
... shute off /7/ the breath of the world, chile serenely watobes
the disaster, putting her enersy into pley to resist the blewe of
.... Our eountry is one of the amal! corners enjoying peaee on 
planet mn on arm in the drunkedness of .....
It Is for this thet the colobration of our liberation earries
a signifiemnee that we ean underetand wholly only by experienee.
History, legends, epies, the past and the future eonverge in turm
upon this great fact of infinite beauty whieh ls our Independenes.
... institutions take form, a national ebaracter is designed.
and the ... forees, the ... of blood, even the seeret of ezistense
live with the saered splendor of e .. In tnet salemn instant
when a nati n is b rm. This is the chier id.u for all Its ...
and we shouid support 1t and dle in its defense. Ahe voloe of
nationaliom grows throughout the world like a blind /1/ outery
and intransigent ...; It exalts the racial coneept end arrirme
Bat ... reeeive the hey f al. the ... The countries whe ...
aa Chile, be ponetrated by a kmowlodge /t% of their values and
the misaion whie: infringee upon them wi thout falling into abstrest
uxly // exagyerations.
I have beem a mewepaper reporter for the reglune of hsse and
kmow /1/ hew the strength or man, baoked /?/ by patriotiam, pre-
duees miraculous reaults. Per example Japan, a poor mmall is-
land, lasking visal resourees, shut orf from the ousside world
for many centuries, Ls as this mememt os the same level as the
most powerful matlone of the earth. Just a year age, I ... the
prineipal eitisens of this eaumtry,
-  。

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.92)
Becord No. 15. 1628 WT. /Continuem/
together wi to Manehurie mnd the north of Chins. veryw.ere are
obeerved feverish palpitetions of work, an unchocked relgn of
creation. In Peking // ... us ... of progrese, the appeermnee
of armed ..., fectories, olectric plants, rerineries, and indus-
trial establiahments of ull kinds, replac'ne the old dwelling
hous s mnd ... in which for thomsands of years was slept the
sleep of abandonment and silence.
After belonging to Jupan for 12 months, you find that the -
pire as multiplied, extending its dominion moross the Pacirie
Geean am tre Indian Ocean. a rew upirit unimates the people
who were on the margine of  ropean eivilization, and who today
aspire tc sat up a governmen: formed by the ocoidental ... and
further, ooneerving always the vivifying breath of their tre-
dit1on that 1s the moul or the ruee. In the oontest whian the
arwy wmgen for the etteinment of the a omaon objectives, all the
peoplo acsmpany their louders!
The war has revealed the intense unity of the Japanese empire,
the perfeet coalitin of ali its parts, and the greut union of
all stampe /1/ in a d ngle des lre, and a  ingle orrort to aahleve
1t. hat mhe has dme reveals /?/ that she has prepared herselr
in a way that ls without parallal in history, not only In the
military side of war, but  in ite finanalal aspect, und this
la porhaps vory dir loult .. in the field of urms ... to o
throuh the ainuous and strong plan of eampaian ... race ques-
tions, and defend herselr in her oritioal economy.
The result of this, whi oh we cun call the Japanese eccmomle
defense, as well prepered and organised as the milidtarys es well,
we say sinee the sountry ls not susfering in the least at this
time frem the eonsequenees of the wer, really mueh less than mome
nations wiien are nit at war and whieh do not have several milllen
men undor arme.
I believe that works of this kind, offered, it makes mo
differeree to mat country or government, mre worthy of con
alderation for tme ... . I do not kmew, and it would be risky
to make a predietion, what the final resuls s the greas werld eam
paign will be, but the truth is that alequent realiales are dememe
atrating that it will not be the riobest nati ne, nor the meet
Intelligent, nor even the mest numerous whieh will Impose their
will on the othere, but simply the meet herele, or thas le shese
who fight for an ideal, elearly coneelved and pursued with semeeleg.
clle has made bhereelr amormous .... of beauty, much a are
thualasm. There ls a souree sprime of piehnesein her mostaims,
In her fielde and In her sees. And I, a Calleem uhe leoke at his
● ●●

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.92)
ls more purified because a noentrated by the rerlection or distance,
which is ... Imp ses upon Chile the dury to c ntimue un a model
republio, rea eotable nd respocted in the splendor of ite virtues
andlorie.
 beliove in my country wiu tihe m at immense fuith and!
meintain that or destiny is t umnu the qualiti-e / denied by
pain, supoorting i vigorously t most ni hly estee ed, che most
prooarlous f our attributes: liberty. In ih.s very hour t at
Inmlieneble attrioute perm ts us to keep peace and live in perfeot
harmony wi th all the nati ons of the world. iomor: w in rder to
found that reign of p ace, we all shall offer ourselves to all
the peoples who have served it  to t o who have des red and
not been able  possuss it. chile nas cortainly ..., oven in
its symbolic roographloal unane; it 1s long and strotaned out us
if exuressing the tature actuiied in rouchint out to the world
in an omoruce o. love and invarianie friendahip.
/conolulon u announoor./
7

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.85)
MANPACIPIO ITERET PE 1.
TOXO OADGAST TO LATE ARICA. BR
B.1.
/statlon anmeiumeemens, frequenele., wave lengthe, esee/
Nadle Toky, new yresents news bulletims of intermetional
eurrent events.
THE PHILIPPINE: KX-C. MBAT AN TS WHO DESENTED THA AMEMIGAN
FOROES WILL BE THLATAD THA SAME AS LIBERATED PRISONERS.
8
Domel advises from Hanila a that the Japemege military
adminletrati on has ordered the thilippine em-seldlers, whe
homes without becoming prisoners an: to register at onee at
2
the lesal adminietration. Arter having sworn & rideliey te
Japen they will get the seme treatmemt as liberated prieemere.
CHE POFULTION : MANILA PABSES 1,OOO,OOO.
2
mumber resenes 1,000,000 in round numbers.
THE STATUE OF THE POUNDER OF SINGAPORE .. IN THE CITY MOBEUM
Prom Shenan 10 le Larormed thas 16 has beem deesded tene
mont in arder to ... Lmrlation.
-1-

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.79)
MANUFACTURE Y ANKAMI NTS IN INDIA MEKTS WITH OREAT OMSTAOLES
te are advi oed from stoakeals that some 100, 000 wophmere from
/stati m announeemnt/
TH: ANOLO-AMBNIOAN ... PACT REVPALS THR DIPPICULT SITUATIUN OP U.B.
5
Caribboan.
/m0100

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.93)
The comentators expest also that sush a deeay in the mels-
tary potentiality of the Soviet army will greatly alleviate the
heavy vurden whieh hes been ... on the Germans.
/station announeement/
THP EX-PREWI R P IHAQ .... TI: ENOLIS FO.ICY OP RAPROACMMNT
A dispatah from Ankare says that Mr. Gohan1 /phonetia/.
exiled premier of Iraq. discussing the English poliey of ra-
promahment with that oountry, deelared the 7th that the ....
attitude of ir. Churchill tomard the government of Iraq in form-
1ng a militar: allianes between the swo countries /shows/ lack
of esteem for the Ireq people, sime they have not yat forgottem
the ... wl ah osourred a year and a halr age between the troops
diree cd by the Anglish in Basrah, by order of this eme English
premier. The only desire of the people is to ... with treat ...
British ... ror the arim.
THE REBELLION IN NORTH IRELAAD IS PURTHEH AOORAVATHD.
Domei, Liabon, Aecording to newe from Belfast sourees,
the riet whish broke out in North Lreland Is extending to verlous
other points of the country. In the eity of Skwartstowm /1/
two and wounding two others.
/C:maluslon/
/Armouneer:/ arter e musleal interlude we will hear a speech
by the famous international comentator, Mr. Iwasaki.
/see next page -- mext record./
- 8 -

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.88)
neesrd No. a4. l987 NwT. /Pirst 3 minutes f oylinder 1s blank
due to fallure of operator to put on recordins switen. Record-
Ing begins inabout the middle or Irasaki's speeeh./
... Preneh /Inde-/hina, whi ah has reeei ved so many ... bene-
fits. Arter the deelaration of war, a treaty was made with
Thailemd, mhioh had held preliminary diseussions .... Thalland
she ... frontiers sould eslebrate with us an agreemens /treatias
everything from eeonomic expedients to ccmmon military defense.
Towards the South meri u countries,  inister Togo has been
 most loyal interpreter f e polioy  tolera ee and compre-
hemslon in the dif: loult momonts f thie war. shortly berore
the conferenee or South america m nisters In nio de Janeiro, .
Chile, Brasll, and Peru, expressine to them the sentiment or the
9
Jupanese and begging tiem not to break the friendship whieh has
united them during so muny years. Unfor tunately the south Ameri-
ean countries did mot listen to the message, out without doubs
1t contributed strongly to the noutrality of argentina and Chile.
In any event, It is a dosument whiek comes from the eenasaney af
our sineere desire to maintain relati ons witm she natioms er
Soutn Amoriea.
Sush, gentlemen, Ls the personality of the mialater whe hes
resigned his offiee, guided by a spirit of nigh patriosimm. uie
Majesty the Maperer, sonvineed of the mmriss or kr. Togo, has
afteré tais, from what channels did she mewe eeme that was apread
by ememy prepaganda about intimate di ssenaloms in she seene af
the Japanese gopermeens, whereas the most somplete harmeny relgns
here, amnd the most edlrying meoord among all the alomente ees-
tituting te Japanere state.
and at the same Bime, /asll be named the minieter or Greater Beas
of all he eontimental dialests, experss im esenomy, in industery,
amd in she agrloul ture of the oeeupied reglons. sith tee this
splendtd sorpe of offioials, plased ast the serviee of the sounary.
stepe will be mede of enormovs e lgnifieanee in she eematruetiem
af how hala, for the happinese or these matiome, wnd for the peese
and well-being of the world.
/and of breedeast./
oo

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.92)
DIVISLON E
BY COURIER
Buenos Aires, Argentina, 0ctober 8, 1942
Central Information Office
(C.I.O.) Report
No. 6936
SUBJECT: FORWARDING OF FIL OF JAPANESE CORRESPONDENCE
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
894.20210/207
9 0  101256
OF
S
dfta.10/
5.1942
P
E
0
20pji
The Honorable
File
The Secretary of State,
Washington
ARTM
Sir:
FILED
As of possible interest to the Department, I
have the honor to enclose herewith a roll of film whic
has already been developed. This film is composed of
Japanese correspondence which has been submitted to this
Embassy by a confidential contact of Argentine national-
ity. As the Embassy has no facilities for the trans-
lation of such material, it is submitting the material
to the Department.
This correspondence has been received by the con-
fidential contact who had been requested by a local
Japanese firm to act as intermediaxy for supposedly in-
nocuous Japanese correspondence between divers Amerioan
Republics. As the Embassy is unable to ascertain whether
the contents of said correspondence are actually harmless
it would be pleased to receive instructions as to whether
such
ntial File
Carbon Copies Destroyed

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.97)
AIL
- 2-
such correspondence snould continue to be photographed
and submitted to the Department.
The Embassy has suggested to its contact that
correspondence continue to be received until such time
as it is deemed advisable to cease. The Embassy will
furthermore continue to make filns of all correspondence
so received pending final instructions from the Depart-
ment.
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador
First Secretary of Embassy
Enclosure: 1 roll of film.
File No. 820.02
4ont ho2n k
Sx.
HAW:mc

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.97)
OCT 29 1942
In reply refer to
70 094.20210/207
894.20210/207
CONFIDENTIAL
The Department of State transmite to the Federal
Bureau of Investigstlon, the attaohed information in
the hope thet it will be of value.
Enclosures:
Copy of strictly confidential despatoh no. 36,
dated Ootober 8, 1942, from the American Embasey
at Buenos Aires, subJeot! "FORWARDING OF FILM OF
JAPANESE CORRESPONDENCE", with or1ginal enolosure.
PS/PGB
This Department would appreciate receiving some
appropriate reply so that an answer may be made to
the Embassy at Buenos Aires in remponse to the
suggestions made in the two olosing paragraphs of
Confidential File
the despatoh tranemitted herewith.
FO:JDH:OPV
10-29-42
A tree copy of
the aigned erigt-

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.94)
DCR
gile
CT1942
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1cR
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: Ootober 1, 1942.
(CONFIDENTIAL)
SUBJECT:
Division of
PARTICIPANTS: Mr. Alger Hiss and Mr. Gordon Roid.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ACT 3 - 1942
Department of State
HmB
COPIES TO:
894.20210/208
MR. HORNBEL
ADVISER
0CT 30 1942
DEPARTMENT OF STAII
1-1608
Mr. Reid called on Mr. Hornbeck and, as Mr. Hornbeok was
busy, was referred to me.
Mr. Reid said that he called at the suggestion of Mr. Carl
Crow.
Mr. Reid said that for the past few months he has been
1n South America for the Foreign Poliey Assooiation working
on the Jubject or Japanese activities in that area. He said
that he had collaborated with our missions and partieularly
9
with Mr. Armour and that he had made all his material avail-
able to our missions or to the appropriate military ofrieials.
FILED
5
Mr. Reid said that Mr. Armour has collected material,
some of it with Mr. Reid's help, on smuggling or tungsten ous
direeted by the Japanese. He did not know whether means had
been found for shipping the tungsten to Japan or whether the
P
activity was designed merely to deny the tungsten to the
United States. He mentioned that a Nr. Franeis Herron had
disoovered these activities while in the Argentine on behalf
of the Institute of Current World Affairs. Mr. Merron, meeore.
ing to Mr. Reid, has om-returned to the United States to be O
drafted. Nr. Reid expressed some disappeintment that Nr. Herres
could not remain in the Argentine to continue his imvestigatione.
Mr. Reid

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
Mr. Reid said that the mines in question are owned by a
Mr. Williams who was aware of losses by smuggling, but had been
unable to ascertain the methcds employed until recently, when
he apparently received assistance from Mr. Herron and Mr. Reid.
Mr. Reid also mentioned that in 1937 hehad known at
Harvard a Japanese Lt. Commander named Ko Nagasawa. In Lima
Mr. Reid found Nagasawa running a restaurant. Our military
attaohé told Mr. Reid that in addition he knows of a Japanese
major who is running a laundry in Peru.
Mr. Reid also said that there is sizable and well or-
ganized distribution by the Japanese of anti-U. S. propaganda
in the Argentine. He remarked that this propaganda was notice-
ably not anti-British. Aooprding to Mr. Reid, Japanese pro-
paganda is distributed by one Pugndlin, a former Argentine
minister to Japan who served under Irigoyen. Pugnalin has an
office in a German-owned building and receives nine thousand
pescs a year from the Mitsubichi Company. Mr. Reid believes
that in all probability he is also supplied with free living
quarters. Pugnalin is able to get a great deal of material
into the local press and he also personally distributes to
friends an anti-Japanese pamphlet which is so drafted as to
evade the restriotione of Argentine law.
Mr. Reid said that another Japanese agent in the Argentine
1s an Eurasian born in Malaya and thus a British subjest, who
was formerly the General Manager of the N.Y.I. Line in the
Argentine. This man, whose name Mr. Reid did not remember,
1s married to a Chinese, and is believed to receive and dis-
tribute Japanese funds to Japanese agents in the Argentine.
He has been partioularly active in following shipping, and has
an elaborate network of agents located throughout South Ameriea
who report to him. He himselr makes frequent trips up and
down the coast to communioate with these agents. Mr. Reid
says that all visiting Japanese are received by him before they
call on the Japanese minister. The British Embassy at Buenos
Aires says that so far sufriciently definite proor is not
available to warrant taking action against this man.
Nr. Reid said further that in Chile a Swiss-German named
Bye 1is the liason between loeal Nazi greups and the Japanese
1n Chile. Mr. Bye 1s the manager or Thomas Cook and Son.
Among Mr. Bye's activities, according to Mr. Reid, are attempts
to buy up in the interest of Japan small mines, apparently
for the purpose of keeping them out of produotion. Mr. Reid
said that Mr. Bye has succeeded in obtaining two small copper
m1nos,

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.98)
-3
mines, and two small cobalt mines whioh were both bought in
English names.
Finally Mr. Reid said that he had received information
that large numbem of Japanese are filtering into Paraguay
from Brazil. From Paraguay they drift into the neighboring
mining regions, especially the tungsten regions of Bolivia,
Argentina and Chile. Mr. Reid said that he had been informed
by a former President of Paraguay that in February of this year
some 700 Japanese reached Paraguay from Brazil. According to
Mr. Reid the Paraguayan Government does nothing to prevent this
because it desperately needs additional Japanese farmers and
hopes that many of those that come from Brazil will remain in
Paraguay.
PA/B:AH:fh

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.97)
October 23, 194
STRIOTLY OOEFIDENTIAL
0.3362
To the American Ambassador,
Buenos Aires.
894.20210/208
The Secretary of State encloses for the strictly
0
confidential information of the Embassy a copy of a
memorandum of conversation dated Ootober 1, 1942,
between Mr. Alger Hiss, Office of the Adviser on
Political Relations, and Mr. Gordon Reid, conneoted
with the Foreign Policy Assoclation.
Enclosure:
Nemorandum of
Conversation,
dated Ootober 1.
SC1 23 0
LL
LLIVRC

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISION OFLB
NOV 12 1942
Rio de Janeiro
MJF
This tolegram must be
Datod Novombor 8, 1942
closely paraphrased bo-
196af
fore being communicaFROM
9th
to anyone. (SC)
11-10
Socrctary of Stato,
NOV 1 0 1942
NOV 13 194
Washington.
894.20210
STATE
894.20210/209
4625, Tovember , 10 p.m.
/197d
Dopartmont's 3437, Movomber 7
/9
Chiloan Doputy Rafael Morono visited Rio de Janei
lattor part of August and Sao Paulo (ostonsibly to
attont a Eucharistic Congress thofo) during first
.20210
wook of Soptombor.
Another Chiluen Doputy, Podro Ganeie de la Huerta,
visited Rio during August as nombor offdelogation sont
b. the Jockoy Club of Santicgo to attond the Grand
Prix of the Rio do Janoiro Jockoy Club.
N0V141942
CAFFERY
FILED
NK

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.88)
C.
PREPARING OFFICE
WHL INDIGATE WHSTHEN
TELEGRAM SENT
Fuli rate
Day letter
(Night letter
Department of State
Charge Departments
Full rate
Day letter
Washingion.
Night letter
Charge to
,1948
This cacl. v
innricential Cooe.
1t sh
rer.d tefre
7pm.
being cor. ct to any one.
AMEMBASSY,
SIA00.dtial
1365
4.4
The following telegram m received from
894.30210/209
hons beant
Rio de Janeiro:
894.20210/2090
(CODE ROOM: Please quote Rio de Janeiro's 4625,
November 8,10 p.m.)
Hull
(PCD)
PNOV 1 1942
D+
894.2021/209
LUS
FC
T
Ensiphared by -
Mu

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF THE AMERICAN REPUBLICS
November 25, 1942
RA - Mr. Chapin:
Mr. Deniel
Mr. BonsaI:
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
RAFAEL MORENO ECHAVARRIA
FC informs me that the F.B.I. states
that Moreno arrived from Panama at Miami
7 p.m., November 24, where,it is reported,
tat he will remain one or two days before
coming to the Embassy here. No further
confirmation of what has been done in his
case has yet been received, but F.B.I. is
teletyping Miami for full report. Arrange-
ments have been made to keep him covered
while here.
F.B.I. did not handle the matter at
Panama and reports from War and Navy must
be awaited on Moreno's arrival and activities
there.
RA:LVB:JAM

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.93)
NoV 1 9 1942
RCC
THE AMFRICAN REPUBLICS
THA
DEPARTVENT OF SIATRio dE JanEiro
ThiTELEGRAMtRECEIVED
closely paraphrasEd bE
Dated NovEmbEn 13, 194
fore being communicated
to anyonE. (BC)
REcd 6 pom
FROM
SecrEtary of StatE
10
Washington
NOV141942
DEPARTMENT
4742, Nov Ei.i Er 13, 4 p.m.
894.20210/210
09
DEpartmEnt's S485, HovEmb Er 10, idnight.
RLE
NOV 161942
MR.
No advErsE rEcord of his activit:Es hErE.
CAFFERY
JRL
894.20210/209
RE activitiEs of DEputy RafaEl lopeno
PS/PGB
Confidential File
DEC 1 6 1942
FILED

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.96)
CC-285
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
Federal Bureau of Inuestigation
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
DCR
United States DepartmenteNhistice
Mashington, D. C.
JDH
FC
DEC111942
RA
THE AME RICAN REPURLICS
Date:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
To:
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
191942
Assistant Secretary of State
MR. BERLE
From: J. Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject:
Summary of Japanese Messages
RECLIV:D
December 16, 1942
Reference is made to your memorandum FC 894.20210/207
dated October 29, 1942 in which you requested examination of photographs
of certain Japanese correspondence which had been submitted to you
by the Embassy at Buenos Aires, Argentina.
The confidential material has been examined by our
Technical Laboratory and there is transmitted herewith a copy of a
summary of these messages which has been prepared by the Translation
Section.
EC 2 9 1942
Enclosure
FOREIGN
NOV 2 0 1942
yuar
P
S
FORYICTORY
BUY
UNITED
DEC 2 2 1942
BONDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
STAMPS

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.96)
19
SUMMARY OF JAPANLSE MSSAGES
The 34 sheets inoluded on this roll of film constitute 15 separate
otters dated between Sept mber 20 and october 2, 1942. Al1 these letters
are related, and although parts of some are no: lugible from the film, all
appear to be leritimato businoss and personal messages and with the possible
exeption of the letter last mentioned below, do not appear to indicate any
aoversive activities. A b ief summary of heir contents follows:
4) Letters designated and dat d as follows:
SA - 4
September 26, 1942
SA - 5
September 26, 1942
SA - 6
September 27, 1942
8A - 7
October 2, 1942
SA - 8
Ootober 1. 1942
SA - 9
October 2, 1942.
These letters do not bear the name of the addressee, and are
signed only by illegible signs perhaps intended as initials. They concern
chiefly negotiations by members of the busi ess from which the letters are
sent, with the Argentino Foreign Minister and Minister of the Interior to
secure for the Japanese firm in question the ight to operate freely, and
without restriotions s to communications, traveling, eto. These negotiations,
however, appear to be still in the formative stage, and little that is conorete
ie said about them. Business matters also are discussed, as dealings in wool
and saltpeter, insuranoe, and custody of money. In letter SA - 9 the writer
states that his new telephone number, 31-025, is not listed in the telephone
book. In letter SA - 8 are mentioned the namss, Senora Varendo and Antofagasta,
and Mr. Cuadola (phonetio spelling), representative of the Saltpeter Co. Also
the writer says in this lett r that Mr. Iahii is disappointed because the
lotters he sent to Lourenoo Marques hed been sent back to Argentina. (The
"SA" proceding the numbers of these lotters possibly stands for the initial
sound of the name of the city from which thsy wure sent, as Santa Fe, San
Luis, Salta, etc.)
(2) Letters designated and dated as follows:
Chile #12
September 20, 1942
Chile #13
September 21, 1942
Chile #14
Soptember 21, 1942
Chil• #18
September 30, 1942
Chil• #19
September 30, 1942
Chil• #20
Soptomber 30, 1942.
These letters conoern prineipelly the aotivities of the head of
the company to seoure permission to expert wine, in conneotion with shioh are
mentigned the following names (phonetio spellingi Canohales Salamoru, Labal
Borgania.
(3) Letter dated Ootober 1, 1942 to Tadayoshi Ishii, Buenos Aises, from
Akihara, Chile, on the same general subjeots as the letturs in group (1).

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.97)
2
hotograph of this letter is very faint, indioating that it may be a
on oopy.
4
Two letters, both dated Ootober 2, l942, to Antonio Gonsales, and signed
wish the same initials as the letters in group (1). These letters are related
t the above, but are more personal in nature. The writer complains of his
Jw salary of 250 to 300 pesos per month. He says that last month he moved
o 578 - D Huerfano St., where he pays a rental fee of 1200 pesos, and where
11 the tenants are members of the Axis party. Illegibility of two words
aakes translation doubtful here, but he appears to say that his landlord is
an axis devotee and o ranizer. No further mention is made of this topic.

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.97)
December 16, 1942
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
no. 3606
To the American Ambassador,
Buenos Aires.
894.20210/211
The Secretary of State refers to the Embassy's
strictly confidential despatch no. 6936 dated October 8,
1942, with which was forwarded a film of Japanese corres-
pondence.
For the Embassy's strictly confidential information,
thore is transmitted herewi th a copy of a memorandum
received from a confidential source withinthis Government
which is a sunmary of the messages contained in the film
PS/VL
submitted with the despatch under reference.
The Department does not consider that the material
and information derived from the film dmaof suffieient
value to warrant taking any risk in securing this type
of information. However, if information of this type is
readily accessible and of possible interest to the Embessy,
the Department would appreciate receiving films of sush
messages in the future.
2
Confide
sure :
of memorandum
T

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.98)
CC-288
JOHN EDGAR HOOVER
DIRECTOR
Jed:SoGreof Inves igation
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
Anited States Department of Justice
Mashington, D. C.
JDH -FC
Date:
NOV 21 1647
To:
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
154
From: J. Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject:
Japanese Radio Group
As of possible interest to you there is being tranamitted
herewith information which was received from a reliable, confidential
source concerning a radio intercept sent by the Japanese Ambassador
894.20210/212
in Argentina to the Foreign Minister at Tokyo on Ootober 9, 1942.
668
This intercept stated that at the conference of the anti-
20210
American Standing Defense Committee at Montevideo on September 1,
it was decided that citizens of the Axis countries should be
subject to strict regulation with respect to entering and leaving
Brasil and Argentina. It was stated in this intercept also that
the countries of Brazil and Uruguay completed successfully negotia-
tions concerning an agreement on boundary defense. This agreement
was signed by General Vargari, Argentine's Chief of General Staff,
and by the Brazilian Army and Navy officers who recently met in Rio
to discuss joint boundary defense arrangements.
RECEIVED
This interoept was signed "Tomiin.
NOV 27 1942
DIVISION OF
cc Direotor, Naval Intelligence
Navy Department, Washington, D. C.
Brigadier General Hayes A. Kroner
Chief, Military Intelligence Service
FREIGH
War Department, Washington, D. C.
V201942
FORDEFENSE
PS/
BUY
UNITED
31944

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.96)
894.20210
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Italian. erman and Japanese Diplomatic Radio
Messages:
894.20210
Transmits a memo with the results of the examination
regarding -.
1213
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
letter
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, lettes, eto.)
From
Dated.....Nov..21,--1942
Justiee-Dopt. (Hoover)
Ta/
File No. .....R62.20210/2064.

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.95)
CC-285
JOHN EDGAR HOOVER
DIRECTOR
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
T
DEPARTAnited States Department of JusTIdAR EASTERN AfFAIRS
Dek
REHAT
Washington, D. C.
JAN 9 -1943
JFe
Depa 'ment of State
Date:
QIVISION, OF
BA
Assistant Seoretary of State
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
From: J. Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject:
Osaka Syosen Kaisya, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
As of possible interest to you information is being furnished
concerning the above mentioned Japanese firm which was received from a reliable,
confidential source. The contents of this memorandum have been furnished to the
894.20
American Embassy in Buenos Aires, Argentina.
The above mentioned firm is located at Sao Paulo, Brazil and it has
been reported that in December of 1940 Mr. A. Osaka, the manager of the above
mentioned firm visited Rosario, Argentina together with members of the same firm
frcm Buenos Aires and at that time took numerous snapshots of the port of Rosario,
the wharves, and the cereal deposits in Rosario. This firm does not maintain
2
an office or warehouse in Rosario but is represented there by one individual.
10/214
This is a Japanese firm.
cc - Director of Naval Intelligence
PS/TL
Navy Department, Washington, D. C.
Major General George V. Strong
Chief, Military Intelligence Service
War Department, Washington, D. C.
Confic
WORLD TRADE
file
DIVISION
JANY21943
FORYICTORY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
BUY
BONDS
STAMPS
AND

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.98)
894.20210
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
"Japanese-German sabotage plan, "36".
SUBJECT
Submits three memoranda prepared by Legal Attache,
Military Attache, and a member of the Embassy
staff regarding -.
894.20210/215
Confidential File
For the original paper from which reference is taken
5708
See
(Despatah, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
Dated
Deo. 31, 1942
From
Peru(Norweb)
To
800.20210/1451
File No.
1-1540

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.98)
894.20210
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Alleged German and Japanese military plan affeoting
Central and Latin American Republios:
Transmits mamorandum concerning the -.
894.20210/216
Confidential File
For the original paper from which reference is taken
e
9
Letter
See
(Despatah, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
Deo. 4, 1942
Justioe Dept. (Hoover)
From
Dated
To
800.20210/1458
File No.
U. B. GOVENNENT PRINTING OPFICE 1—1540

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.97)
BY COURIER
EMBASSY OF THE
UIVISION OF
UNITED STATES OF MERICA1943
THE AMERICAN REFURLTS
Buenos Aires, Argentina, March 15, 1943
Central Information Office
(C.I.O.) Report
MB
No. 9366
SUBJECT: JAPAN TOURIST BUREAU-ORGANIZATION
3
Copy 1.72
For Drstpin
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
894.20210
The Honorable
hy toss with.
The Secretary of State,
331-43
Washington
MAR 3D1943
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose translations of docu-
ments handed over to the Embassy by a confidential source,
giving a picture of the entire Japan Tourist Bureau or-
2
ganization for the Japanese fiscal year l94l (April 1,
1941 to March 31, 1942). These papers include (1) a des-
patch in April 194l, from former Manager T. Tsutsumi (now
in Japan) to the head office in Tokyo giving interesting
plans and suggestions for future work by the Bureau in
South America; (2) the 194l budget for expenditures by
PS
Japan Tourist Bureau Offices throughout the world; and
(3) an explanation by the head office of this budget and
/TL
the manner in which the budget items are to be used by
the various offices.
The main impression gained from a reading of these
documents is that Japan Tourist Bureaus are much more
concerned with propaganda work than with travel. Propa-
ganda appropriations in 194l accounted for Yen 843,000
(US$200,000) or over one-half of the total appropriation
of Yen 1,560,000 (US$370,000). Printed propaganda matter,
motion pictures and advertising accounted for Yen 454,000
or over one-half of the propaganda appropriation.
Japan Tourist Bureaus operate almost entirely on fund
received from Japanese Government sources. Of the Yen
FILED
1,560,000 receipts for 1941, Yen 400,000 was a government
151943
subsidy, and Yen 850,000 was received from the Railway
Ministry.
Appropriations for expenditures for l94l include Yen
116,Ooo for operation of the head office in Tokyo, includ-
ing an East Asia Tourist Conference in Manila in November
1941. Yen 425,000 was appropriated for the operation of
ten overseas offices in New York, Buenos Aires, Berlin,
Rome

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
Rome, Peking, Tientsin, Shanghai, Hongkong, Manila,
and Hanoi. The Berlin and Hanoi offices were newly
opened, and the London and Paris offices closed. Paris
personnel was transferred to New York. Personnel was
low paid, but the manager and also generally secretary
of each office was given a liberal "travel expense" item
and "reserve fund" upon which they could draw for neces-
sary expenses.
The propaganda expense item as already mentioned
totaled Yen 843,000, a decrease of Yen 203,000 from the
1940 appropriation. The decrease was accounted for main-
ly by a falling off in ropaganda directed towards the
United States, including invitations extended to Americans
to visit Japan at the expense of the Japanese Government.
The main propaganda prop was Yen 225,Oo0 for printed pro-
paganda material, to cover a diversity of folders, book-
lets, pamphlets, etc. to be issued in a number of lang-
uages. It also planned collaboration with the German
Propaganda Ministry in undertaking a magazine for Germans
called "Introduction to Japan and Manchukuo". The motion
picture appropriation of Yen 165,000 was a Yen 30,000 in-
crease over l940, but even so provided for only four pro-
paganda films sound tracked in a number of languages. It
is interesting to note that imported film was to be used
for duplicates for European distribution, while Japanese
film was to go to "backward countries". This reference
to backward countries, apparently including South America
caused Buenos Aires Manager Tsutsumi to protest that "you
should not regard this as a backward country, for whether
rightly or wrongly it thinks of itself as being far super-
ior to Japan in culture, living, etc." In connection with
films it is also notable that Japan had no color film
equipment in l94l but planned to obtain Agfa technicians
to set up color facilities.
Appropriations for newspaper and magazine advertising
were reduced from Yen 160,000 in 1940 to Yen 73,000 in
l94l, perhaps because of an anticipated refusal of pro-
Allied newspapers and magazines to accept Japanese adver-
tising. Local Manager Tsutsumi tells of the ultimate
failure in l940 of his office and the then Japanese Lega-
tion in Buenos Aires to get La Nación to print a 26o0th
Japanese Anniversary Number, the newspaper's change of
heart he suspected "was due to the interference of a third
country." Manager Tsutsumi wished that he might make use
of the extensive and effective circulation network of the
British-American group of newspapers in Argentina. He
recognized that political propaganda would hardly do, but
hoped that acceptance of cultural and sightseeing propa-
ganda, and pictures in the weekly rotogravure sections
would prove to be a possible method of using the Allied
press.
It is noteworthy that the Tourist Bureau appropriations
provided only Yen 10,000 in both 1940 and 1941 for radio
broadcasting propaganda, as radio was apparently felt to
be

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
be a poor propaganda medium for the work of the Bureau.
Apparently part time propagandists had not proven to
be effective, for of the small staff of 15 attached to
various offices five were to be dismissed, and Manager
Tsutsumi protested against the appropriation for an addi-
tional part time propagandist to be added to his staff,
preferring instead to open a branch in Rio de Janeiro.
On the other hand the item for Delegated Propaganda was
increased to Yen 94,000 from the figure of Yen 53,000 in
1940. It would seem that this fund covers part of the
clandestine activities of the Japan Tourist Bureaus, es-
pecially the item of Yen 80,O0o for "commissioned business"
expenses being paid directly by the head office "for form's
sake", and including the travel expenses of agents, enter-
tainment, and hiring of employees for special work. Japan-
ese Chambers of Commerce (or Trade Mediation Boards) ap-
parently did some delegated propaganda work on behalf of
the Bureaus, but Manager Tsutsumi was not satisfied with
delegated work.
Under the item for Invitations (to visit Japan) extended
by the Bureau to those foreigners thought to be most use-
ful in spreading Japanese propaganda, the Bureau planned
to extend invitations to about 80 persons including Chinese
and Japanese in the Far East, and requested the Bureau of-
fices to recommend others from their districts. The Buenos
Aires Manager wished to have literary lights, newsmen and
artists invited so that he might obtain their collaboration.
He also suggested the importance of inviting promising
nisei (second generation Japanese born in Argentina) students
to foster their love for Japan. He also wished to have films
sent to Argentina to show to the nisei through local Jap-
anese Associations. The New York office was excepted from
extending invitations to visit Japan. The appropriation
for Yen 96,000 for Planning Investigations in 1941, com-
pared with Yen 13,000 for 1940, included a large new item
of Yen 84,Oo0 for investigation of ways and means of ex-
panding Japanese propaganda. It might also have been another
source of funds for clandestine activities on the part of
the Bureaus.
While the Buenos Aires branch of Japan Toupist Bureau
Office is still open at Florida 746, it is understood to
be in charge of the former secretary, Mr. Ehara. Needless
to say there has been no travel work for it to do sinoe
Japan entered the war. It carries some window exhibits,
and occasionally sponsors a flower show or photographic
or art exhibition, one being planned for May l943, for
which it is advertising in the Japanese press for exhibits.
However, it is not impossible that the organization of agents
in other South American countries continues to operate under
the ultimate direction of the Japanese Government. An ef-
fort will be made to obtain a list of agents of the Bureau.
Mr. Masao TSuDA, Domei representative in Buenos Aires
also has his office in the Tourist Bureau, and it is prob-
able that both agencies of the Japanese Government collab-
orate between themselves and with the Japanese Embassy and
Japanese Associations in Argentina.
It 1s

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
It is not unliely that the Solar1 Committee of the
Chamber of Deputies will make use of the enclosed material
in prosecution of the Japanese phase of its Investigation
of Anti-Argentine Activities.
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
Hagh Milled
Firt Secretary of Embassy
Enclosures:
(1) April 17, 1941, despatch from Mr. Tsutsum1 to
Japanese Tourist Bureau iead Office in Tokyo.
(2) 1941 Japanese Tourist Bureau budget, with 1940
comparisons.
(3) Head Office explanation of 1941 budget.
F1le No. 820.02
Dup.
GW:mc

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch no. 9366,
dated March 15, 1943, Buenos Aires,
Argentina.
Japan Tourist Bureau, Florida 746, Buenos Aires.
(Letter from)
Argentina Office No. 43 (letter number)
(Copy to Nippon Travel Bureau)
April 17, 1941
Buenos Aires/Office
Tateo TSUTSUMI, in charge
(Addressed to)
Takanori KIMURA, Esquire, Permanent Director,
International Tourist Bureau (name of Japan Tourist Bureau
in Tokyo)
Items Connected with Policy for Project Activities in 194l
In connection with this main subject, your detailed
instructions of February 3, Bureau letter number 59, and
February 5, Bureau letter nunber 45, have been received, and I
trust there will be complete satisfaction with the work of this
office on activities projected for l94l.
There follow a few concrete suggestions of my own for
the plans for work and the hopes of this office:
1. Detailing of a Permanent Resident Bureau
Member to Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
Although the permanent office in Buenos Aires has been
established as the center for propaganda to the various coun-
tries in South America, it cannot be considered as sufficient
by itself for spreading propaganda throughout South America in
view of the tremendous area to be covered, the diversity of the
peoples, and the inconvenience of inter communications. At
present, to make up for this lack, it has been necessary to en-
gage people not on the regular staff to spread propaganda in
various places, or to entrust propaganda work to the Chambers
of Commerce, in other words to give this work to those who know
nothing about it, which I think is the wrong way to spread a
propaganda net. Since the great majority of these people know
practically nothing about the work of the Bureau, not much can
be expected of them, and it all amounts to expense for nothing
on the part of the Bureau.
Rather than have ten part-time propagandists, it must
be clear that one Bureau Office is more effective. Even if
all of the part-time workers, and some of the Chambers of Com-
merce were readjusted, I would want to have this propaganda
organ established (in Rio). For the time being this Permanent
Resident Member of the Bureau in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, should
be under the jurisdiction of the Buenos Aires Office, and it
should probably handle propaganda work directed toward the
northern part of South America.
While Argentina and Brazil are the two largest countries
in South America, their language, customs and peoples are dif-
ferent. If the former is the economic and recently cultural
center

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
center of South America, the latter possesses unique natural
beauty and abundant resources. Even when this office was es-
tablished Rio was a strong candidate, so that I expect that
this plan may soon be realized. I do not believe that the sta-
tioning of a permanent man at Rio will greatly influence the
budget.
2. Propaganda Printed Matter
(a) Attention is invited to the fact that except for
Brazil, Central and South American countries generally use
Spanish, so it goes without argument that most printed propa-
ganda material for this area should be in Spanish. Consider-
able propaganda material has been sent to this office in Portu-
guese, but since Brazil is the only country here using that lang-
uage the material has been practically useless.
(b) A number of different types of publications should
be made up in Spanish. Other than the special study series of
the "Tourist Library" directed to South America, something with-
out such an abundance of articles, and with a wealth of pictures
and illustrations would be better. Not liking difficult things,
something with direct eye appeal should be gotten up for the
people here.
(c) The Spanish edition of the Tourist Library should
be realized as soon as possible. If translation and such is
difficult for the home office, it can be done here.
(d) In general, the lack of good quality paper, the
inexpertness of printing art, etc. locally, makes it impossible
to produce excellent propaganda brochures here. As a result,
this Bureau continually wins praise from these people on its
printed propaganda material. So that I firmly trust that the
quality of paper, etc. will not be lowered in making up propa-
ganda material from now on, in order that it may cope with the
excellent propaganda publications being put out by the British,
Americans, Italians and others.
3. Motion Pictures and Photographs
(a) I have frequently reported on the flourishing con-
dition of the motion picture business here, and it follows as a
fact that motion pictures present the most effective propaganda
medium for these people.
So that it is greatly to be regretted that practically
no motion pictures have been sent to this office since it was
opened. As there has not yet been occasion to have the authori-
ties formally use motion pictures, I take this opportunity to
request that several Spanish editions of films be made up quickly
and sent here post haste. Of course it is best to have the films
with sound announcements on them, but if it is difficult for
Tokyo to make them, then if you send them plain or without dub-
bing, I can have the sound track put on here and the necessary
number of copies made. I should like to say that you should not
regard

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
regard this as a backward country for whether rightly or wrongly
it thinks of itself as being far superior to Japan in culture,
living, etc. So that I would add that you should send movies
which are about the equal of those which you send to Europe and
America.
(b) In order to deepen the cognizance of love for the
mother country on the part of the second generation Japanese
born in Argentina, if there are some suitable films among those
made by the Traffic Department, they should be sent. I will
get the cooperation of our official establishments, the Japanese
Associations, etc. in having these films shown in various places.
(c) The scope for using the show window facing the
street for a general exhibition of pictures is quite large, so
that a half dozen or more photographs should be sent at one time.
Also I would like to have Japan Photo Service pictures sent.
4. Advertisements in Newspapers and Magazines.
Here there is a British-American group and a German-
Italian group of newspapers. The German-Italien group has
hitherto been very friendly in articles printed, and this office
intends to form even closer association with these papers in the
future. But the British-American group is quite different. But
its circulation network is extremely extensive, and I believe
it would be very effective if our country could use that network
for spreading our tourist propaganda. However, in view of the
present international situation that will not be an easy thing
to do. Last year our Embassy (at that time a Legation) and others
were working with La Nación in preparation of a 26o0th Year of
the Founding of the Japanese Empire Anniversary Number, a Japanese
propaganda edition, when bang, the whole business was suspended,
it is said that that was due to the interference of a third coun-
try. Since then I have been thinking of various ways of edging
into the propaganda editions of these powerful newspapers. Of
course it would be difficult to get them to take straight polit-
ical propaganda, but by turns it might be possible to get them
to use cultural and sightseeing propaganda. For the present as
a concrete measure I would like to have them carry our pictures,
etc. in the weekly rotogravure sections of papers like La Prensa
and La Nación.
5. Radio Broadcasts
As I have already reported in connection with radio
broadcasting here, ever since the establishment of this office,
I have continuously been putting something into operation, and
in view of the power of radio propaganda I shall continue to do
so in the future. I believe that broadcasting methods will
gradually improve. I wish that you would on occasion send me
some new records.
6. Propaganda Exhibits
As you know, this office has two front show windows,
and inside there is a big hall and arcade which can be used to
exhibit

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
exhibit propaganda material, so I wish to have some sent. Now
and for some time past I have awaited the speedy arrival of the
skilled arts pictures requested. Also I want several dioramas
to use for exhibition at other times.
7. Invitations to Foreigners
As this country is the one fartherest away from Japan,
anyone from here visiting Japan must expect to be away at least
four months to do so. So that leaving the present international
situation aside, an ordinary person in business using for instance
the summer vacation, cannot very easily accomplish such a visit.
For that reason, in the future rather than extending invitations
to people like school mistresses and those tied down by fixed
jobs, it would be better to invite those with their time com-
paratively free such as literary men, newspaper writers, artists,
etc. And this office would especially like to obtain collabora-
tion with those quarters.
In conclusion, aside from the above-mentioned invitations
to foreigners I believe that it is today increasingly important
to strengthen the recognition for the home country of the second
generation Japanese living here. So that in the future I want to
work with our official establishments in selecting promising young
second generation boys and girls to send to the mother country on
inspection trip parties, etc., and I would like to obtain the
assistance of the home office in organizing this into a reality.
THE END
GW:mo

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to despatch No.
9366, dated Mar. 15, 1943, BA.
Japan Tourist Bureau's Budget Plan for 1941
CONFIDENTIAL
International Tourist Bureau
Prepared January 1941
Operation Accounts of Receipts and Expenditures
for the Budget Plan for the Fiscal Year 194l
(from April 1, 1941 to March 31, 1942)
RECEIPTS
Items
1941
1940
Increase
Budget
Budget
or Decrease
1. Subsidy
Yen 400,000
500,000
-100,000
General accounts
11
ii
2. Supporting Members Contri-
butions
954,000
909,000
45,000
Railway Special Accounts
850,000
800,000
50,000
Korean Railway Bureau
10,000
10,000
Formosan Communications Bureau
4,000
4,000
South Manchurian Railway
25,000
25,000
Nippon Yusen (N.Y.K.)
30,000
30,000
Osaka Shosen (O.S.K.)
15,000
15,000
Japan Hotel Association
10,000
10,000
Toa Kaiun (shipping co.)
5,000
5,000
Others
5,000
15,000
-10,000
3. Patron Members Contributions
100,000
100,000
4. Miscellaneous Receipts
Yen 106,000
31,000
75,000
Japan Travel Bureau Share
80,000
80,000
Interest
15,000
15,000
Sale of printed matter
10,000
14,000
-4,000
Miscellaneous receipts
1,000
2,000
-1,000
5. Refund to the Operation Fund
60,000
-60,000
Grand Total
1,560,000 1,600,000
-40,000
EXPENDITURES
Items
1941
1940
Increase
Budget
Budget
or Decrease
1. Business Operation Expense
Yen 116,000
119,000
-3,000
(for head office in Tokyo)
Salaries and Wages
46,500
46,500
Travel Expenses
31,000
37,000
-6,000
In Japan
5,000
5,000
Abroad
26,000
32,000
-6,000
Depreciation
7,500
7,500
Printing
8,500
8,500
Communication & Transportation
4,000
4,000
East Asia Tourist Conference
9,500
6,500
+3,000
Miscellaneous
9,000
9,000

=== Page 162 === (confidence 1.00)
2
XPENDITURES (continued)
1941
1940
Increase
Budget
Budget
or Decrease
2. Overseas Offices Expenses Yen
425,000
312,000
113,000
New York
87,000
87,000
Rome
61,000
58,000
3,000
Buenos Aires
65,000
50,000
15,000
Berlin (former London & Paris)
79,000
23,000
56,000
Peking
34,000
33,000
1,000
Shanghai
29,000
27,000
2,000
Hongkong
3,000
5,000
-2,000
Tientsin
2,000
2,000
Manila
29,000
27,000
2,000
Hanoi (newly opened)
36,000
36,000
3. Propaganda Expenses
843,000
1,046,000
-203,000
Printed Propaganda
225,000
230,000
-5,000
Motion Pictures
165,000
130,000
35,000
Photographs
20,000
15,000
5,000
Newspaper & Magazine Ads
73,000
160,000
-87,000
Advertising
64,000
150,000
-86,000
For Articles Offered
9,000
10,000
-1,000
Broadcast Propaganda
10,000
10,000
Propaganda Exhibits
35,000
25,000
10,000
Exhibitions
20,000
15,000
5,000
Propaganda Shows
15,000
10,000
5,000
Part-time Propagandists
21,000
36,000
-15,000
Delegated Propaganda
94,000
53,000
41,000
Entrusted Propaganda
14,000
40,000
-26,000
Commissioned business
80,000
80,000
Travel Lectures
5,000
-5,000
Itinerant Propaganda
8,000
-8,000
Invitations (to Japan)
121,000
284,000
-163,000
Entertainment Propaganda
8,000
10,000
-2,000
Distribution costs
60,000
73,000
-13,000
Special Propaganda Items
11,000
20,000
-9,000
Attracting Foreigners
3,000
10,000
-7,000
International Meetings
3,000
5,000
-2,000
Aiding Students of Japan
3,000
5,000
-2,000
Miscellaneous Propaganda
2,000
2,000
4.Planning Investigations
96,000
13,000
83,000
Investigations
87,000
3,000
84,000
Propaganda Expansion
investigation
84,000
84,000
Investigation of Provi-
sions for sightseeing
3,000
3,000
Guidance Expenses
9,000
9,000
Guidance (or direction)
of those connected with
entertainment
5,000
5,000
Guidance (or training) of
sightseeing guides
4,000
4,000
Japan Tourist Prizes
1,000
-1,000
5. Reserve Fund
80,000
110,000
-30,000
Grand Total
1,560,000
1,600,000
-40,000

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure 3 to despatch 9366,
Mar. 15, 1943, Buenos Aires.
JAPANESE TOURIST BUREAU BUDGET
CONFIDENTIAL
Details and Application of the l94l Ludget Plan
I. Receipts
(1) General Accounts Subsidy.
In revising the Yen 500,000 subsidy for this
fiscal year (1940) an increase of Yen 100,000 was requested,
but after repeated negotiations with the Finance Ministry au-
thorities, not alone was the requested increase not recognized
as a principle, but following the general subsidy curtailment
policy, another Yen loo,Oo0 was cut off, leaving only a sub-
sidy of Yen 4o0,Oo0 within which to work.
(2) Supporting Members Contributions
At first a s ubscription of Yen 800,o00 was requested
from the Railway Special Accounts, but in view of the down-
ward revision made by the Finance .inistry, an increase of
Yen 50,ooo was requested and obtained, making the subscription
come to Yen 850,000.
In these items the "others" comes mainly from
Kansai (around Osaka) and Kanto (around Tokyo) traffic people.
(3) Miscellaneous Receipts
In this item the "Nippon Travel Bureau Share" was
appropriated to cover the travel and other necessary expenses
of despatching a Nippon Travel Bureau man to New York, Rome,
Buenos Aires, Manila and Hanoi, and instead was handed over
by that Bureau to become a receipt here. (In the expenditure
column it appears under propaganda expenses for those dele-
gated to part time duty).
II. Expenditures.
(1) Business Expenses.
Under this item the "Salaries and Wages" was to
have provided for the employment of three more persons to add
to the twenty-seven now employed by the Bureau, but as the bud-
get is the same as before, they will not be added.
In November of this year (194l) the necessary ex-
penses for the Third East Asia Sightseeing Conference, to be
sponsored in Manila, will come out of the "Foreign Travel"
and the"East Asia Sightseeing Conference Expense" items.
(2) Overseas Offices Expenses.
In Europe, in response to the changes in the inter-
national situation, the Paris office was closed, as well as
the Railway Ministry's Office there to which propaganda work
had been entrusted, and the personnel was transferred to New
York. In place of the London office the Berlin office was
newly

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
owly established, and it took over general propaganda directed
toward Europe, and in keeping with the Tri-Partite Pact be-
tween Japan, Germany and Italy, undertook to bring into close
coalition Japanese and German Tourist work.
In order to strengthen the ties of the East Asia
Co-prosperity Sphere, and to contribute to the advancement of
friendly concert between the various countries in the Sphere,
an office was newly established in Hano1, French Indo-China.
New appropriations were made for both offices.
Hitherto travelling expenses among the expense
1tems allotted for the overseas offices have been borne half
by this office (The International Tourist Bureau) and half by
the Japan Travel Bureau, and appropriations made accordingly.
But beginning with the 194l fiscal year (April 1, 194l through
Larch 31, 1942) the expenses of the overseas offices will be
charged only to the International Tourist Bureau. Expenses
borne together with the Japan Travel Bureau have been changed
to the appropriation for Special Delegated Propaganda Expenses.
Details for each office follow. Attention 1s called
to fact that the personnel fund is about normal, but that should
not be taken to mean that salaries are to be increased or more
new people hired.
(a) New York
Total Yen 37,000 (same as 1940)
Travel expenses
Yen 33,000
1 Manager
Yen 17,500
1 Secretary
12,500
Reserve fund
3,300
Personnel expenses for 3 persons
Yen 12,200
1 person
$100 per month
2 persons
$15 per week
including bonuses
Rent
Yen 18,500
Yearly rental
$4,300
Office expenses
Yen 23,000
Monthly expenses $450
Service allowances 60 per mo.
20
n
(b) Rome
Total Yen 61,000 (Yen 58,000 1n 1940)
Travel expenses
Yen 20,000
1 Manager
Yen 17,500
Reserve fund
2,500
Personnel expenses for 3 personsYen 13,600
1 person
$130 per month
1 person
75
1
n
40
n
including bonuses
Rent
Yen 7,700
Yearly rental
$1,800
off100

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
Office expenses
Yen 19,700
Monthly expenses
Pesos
$350
Service allowance
$ 25 per month
(c) Buenos Aires
Total Yen 65,000 (Yen 50,000 in 1940)
Travel expenses
Yen 21,000
1 Manager
Yen 11,000
1 Secretary
8,000
Reserve fund
2,000
Personnel expenses for 2 persons
Yen 4,700
2 persons
Pesos 180 monthly each
including bonuses
Rent
Yen 25,500
Yearly rental
Pesos 25,200
Office expenses
Yen 13,800
Monthly expenses
Pesos
1,000
Reserve
t1
1,800
(d) Berlin
Total Yen 79,Ooo (The London and Paris
accounts were Yen 23,000 in 1940)
Travel expenses
Yen 30,000
1 Manager
Yen 15,500
1 Secretary
11,250
Reserve fund
3,250
Personnel expenses for 2 persons Yen 6,700
1 person
Marks 200 monthly
1
1"
1"
100
including bonuses
Rent
Yen 12,300
Yearly rental
Marks 7,200
Office expenses
Yen 24,000
Monthly expenses
Marks 1,000
Reserve fund
11
2,160
(e) Peking
Total Yen 34,000 (33,000 in 1940)
Travel expenses
Yen 11,400
1 Manager
Yen 5,900
1 Secretary
4,200
Reserve fund
1,300
Personnel expenses for 6 persons Yen 6,000
1 person each at monthly salary
of Yen 130, 90, 50, 40, 30 & 20
including bonuses
Rent
Yen 1,800
Monthly rental
Yen 150
Office expenses
Yen 14,800
Monthly expenses
Yen 800
Wood and coal
2800 per year
Gasoline
2400
Shanghai

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.96)
- 4 -
(r) Shanghai
Total Yen 29,000 (27,000 in 1940)
Travel expenses
Yen 11,000
1 Manager
Yen 5,900
1 Secretary
4,200
Reserve fund
900
Personnel expenses for 4 persons
Yen 4,000
1 person
Yen 100 monthly
1
91
75
1
11
32
11
1
31
ff
including bonuses
Rent
Yen 3,000
Monthly rental
Yen 250
Office expenses
Yen 11,000
Monthly expenses
Yen 500
Service allowance
200 per month
19
1n
100
11
Reserve fund
1,400
(g) Hongkong
Total Yen 3,000 (5,000 in 1940)
Office expenses entrusted to Japan Travel Bureau
(h) Tientsin
Yen 2,000 (same as in 1940)
Office expenses entrusted to the Tientsin
Office of the Railway Ministry.
(i) Manila
Yen 29,000 (27,000 in 1940)
Travel expenses
Yen 10,500
1 Secretary
Yen 10,000
Reserve fund
500
Personnel expenses for 2 persons Yen 3,300
1 person
Pesos 80 monthly
1
11
1"
30
1"
including bonuses
Rent
Yen 3,900
Yearly rental
Pesos 1,800
Office expenses
Yen 11,300
Monthly expenses Pesos
350
Service allowance
50 monthly
Reserve fund
1,000
(j) Hanoi
Total Yen 36,000 (newly opened)
Travel expenses
Yen 16,500
1 Manager
Yen
9,700
1 Secretary
6,800
(Aside from this, it is desired shortly to appro-
priate for the travel expenses of the manager and
secretary from the planning investigation expendi-
tures and from the propaganda expansion investiga-
tion expenditure).
Personnel

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
(j) Hanoi (continued)
Personnel expenses for 2 persons
Yen 3,900
1 person
Yen 200 monthly
1
17
100
9"
including bonuses
Rent
Yen 6,000
Monthly rental
Yen 500
Office expenses
Yen 9,600
Monthly expenses Yen 800
(3) Propaganda Expenses
Tota1 Yen 843,000 (1,046,000
in 1940)
This year's appropriation is a decrease of Yen
203,000 from last year. The principal reasons for this as
have already been stated in the Projects Activity Policy, are
that in accompanying the change in the international situation,
there has been a decrease of propaganda directed towards the
United States, and the United States has suspended the issuance
of passports to travelers to the Far East, etc., in view of
which the number of invitations to foreigners (to visit Japan)
has been checked.
The various items under propaganda expenditures
are explained as follows:
(a) Printed propaganda material
Yen 225,000 (23,000 in
1940)
The principal things planned for this year are as
follows:
General guide booklets in various formats,
the same as this year (1940) in German, Ita-
lian, Spanish, Portuguese, Anamese and other
languages.
Continuation of the Tourist Library Series as
hitherto, and selection of some of those already
published for translation into German.
Continuation of Travel in Japan after scrutiny
of the contents, and publication of a special
number in German and Italian.
Combined publication of the Guide to Japan and
the Graphic into a folder style photographic
guide for backward countries.
It is planned to bear part of the joint publi-
cation expense for the magazine Introduction to
Japan and Manohukuo being planned by the German
Propaganda Ministry.
(b) Motion

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
(b) Motion pictures
Yen 165,000 (130,000 in
1940)
Plans have been made for the production of two
two-reel pictures for European distribution, one three-reel
picture for the Greater East Asia Co-prosperity Sphere, and
one one-reeler for general distribution, suitably sound tracked
according to the context in English, German, French, Spanish,
Portuguese, Chinese, Malayan, and Anamese.
Imported film will be used for making duplicates
for European distribution, while it is planned to use Japanese-
made film for those going to backward countries.
As 16 mm reduced editions (both with and without
sound) compare with 35 mm film, still more is the importance to
be attached to natural color films. But inasmuch as color equip-
ment has not yet been set up in this country, it is planned to
obtain the assistance of suitable technicians such as Agfa to
set this up. (In view of the International situation Eastman
Kodak Company has postponed setting up such equipment in Japan).
(c) Photographs
Yen 20,000 (15,000 in
1940)
The six big photographs together will be used this
coming year as it was last.
(a) Newspaper and Magazine Advertising Yen 73,000 (160,000
in 1940)
This expense item will be divided as follows:
1. Advertisements
Yen 64,000
a. North & Central America
Yen 20,000
b. South America
10,000
c. Europe
8,000
d. China
5,500
Peking
Yen 1,500
Shanghai
"
3,000
Hongkong
1,000
e. Philippines
n
2,500
f. French Indo-China
2,000
g. For use of main office
16,000
2. For articles (written) offered
This item is covered in detail elsewhere.
(e) Propaganda Broadcasts
Yen 10,000 (same as 1940)
Radio broadcasts, including the purchase of re-
cordings, is covered separately in detail.
(f) Propaganda exhibits
Yen 35,000 (25,000 in 1940
This item includes editions of Japanese skills and
arts, the making of dioramas and such for the overseas offices,
packing

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.97)
- 7 -
packing charges, etc., and exhibit expenses for exhibitions,
shows, and participation in sample fairs and such.
(g) Employment of Part-time Propa andists Abroad
Yen 21,000(36,000 in
1940)
Of the 15 part-time propag nda workers employed
the activities of some have been rendered useless by the change
in the international situation. The services of about five of
these may be dispensed witn. Furthermore, it is planned to hire
two new part-time men for work in South America and within the
Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity S here. Appropriations have also
been made in the budget for continuance of the work entrusted
this year to the 19 places having Chambers of Commerce (or Trade
Mediation Boards). If in view of the changes in the international
situation you have some thoughts in connection with some read-
justment of the foregoing plan it is desired that you make your
views known after consideration of the foregoing.
In this connection each jurisdictional office should
endeavor to form even closer contacts.
(h) Delegated Propaganda
Yen 94,000 (53,000 in
1940)
This item of expenditure is a lumping of the 1940
items for Delegated Propaganda, Travel Lectures and Itinerant
Propaganda. As an expenditure for Delegated Propaganda it will
again take care of the travel expenses of Japanese Tourist Bu-
reau agents, and necessary expenses incurred by the Japanese
Tourist Bureau (including various office expenses, entertain-
ment expenses, the hiring of employees on the spot, etc., and
rental in New York). For form's sake expenditures from this
fund for commissioned business will be paid by this Bureau.
Details of allotments for the foregoing, follow:
For New York
Yen 29,200
11
Rome
15,000
1"
Buenos Aires
9,200
11
Manila
15,000
1"
Hanoi
8,500
Miscellaneous
3,100
Total
Yen 80,000
In connection with the use of an additional Yen
14,Ooo for Delegated Propaganda, separate detailed instructions
wiil be issued.
(1) Invitations
Yen 121,000 (284,000 in
1940)
The main office is thinking of extending invita-
tions (to visit Japan) to 20 educators, eight famous writers,
artists and leoturers, ten travel, communications and hotel
people, 30 Chinese gentlemen, 15 assorted Japanese gentlemen
within

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8 -
within the East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere, and others as
far as the scheduled appropriation permits. Subject to the
need of revision depending upon the chanes in the interna-
tional situation, it is desired that the various offices recom-
mend suitable candidates from within their districts (with the
exception of the North American office--in New York--).
(j) Entertainnent Propaganda
Yen 8,000 (10,000 in
1940)
This item is to be used as in the past to make up
a present of some suitable and effective propaganda momento
for the foreigners coming to Japan, and to entertain famous
visitors to Japan.
(k) Distribution Expenses
Yen 60,000(73,000 in
1940)
This will cover postage, freight, wrapping and
other incidentals connected with the distribution of printed
propaganda material, motion pictures, etc.
It will also especially be used for necessary ex-
penses for investigatin an expansion of the mailing list.
(1) Special Propaganda Expenses
Yen 11,000 (20,000 in 1940)
This item lumps those formerly under furthering
the Attraction of Foreign Guests (formerly called Encouragement
of the Solicitation of Foreign Groups), Fostering of Interna-
tional Meetings, Aid to Students Studying Japan, and Miscel-
laneous Propaganda.
(4) Planning Investigations
Yen 96,000 (13,000
in 1940)
Planning Expenses for l940 are unified and read-
justed under Investigation Expense and Direction (or Guidance)
Expense. Under Investigation Expense is included that needed
for an investigation of the expansion of propaganda and an in-
vestigation of provisions for sightseeing in the various coun-
tries in the East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere.
Under Guidance Expenses are included those for
rounding out the training of tourist guides and those connected
with entertainment. This is also to be used for the elevation
of character, business improvement, and especially in obtaining
cooperation in spy-prevention.
(5) Reserve Fund
Yen 80,000 (110,000 in
1940)
(End of budget explanations)
GW:mo

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.95)
6
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
81LY
ECEVED
OF THE
UNITÉD STATES OF AMERICA
Auy
MAR 30 PM 12 49
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Santiago, Chile,
'arch 20, 1943.
Subject:
Analysis of Certain 'aterial Contained in the Takano
File which was Obtained by the Legal Attaché from
the Files of the Japanese Compañia Chilena Oriental.
894.20210/208
STRICTLY CTFLDEMTIAL.
copy
40
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have/the honor to invite the Department's attention to
P
the Legal Attaché's communications  o. 1750'of December 11 and
IS
No. 1754 of December 16, 1942, and to the letter in reply from
Washington dated February 27, 1943, concerning certain material
obtained by thd Legal Attaché's office from the files of the
Japanese CO!PAIA CHILENA ORIENTAL, a firm representing the
MITSUI interests in Chile.
Although the Compañfa Chilena Oriental was ostensibly
interested primarily in the importation of textiles from Japan,
APR
the principal concern of the company appears to have been
minerals needed by the Japanese war industry. Furthermore,
2
this firm was for a long time suspected of being engaged in
1
espionage activities. This suspicion was given weight in August
6
'1942 by the disclosure that the expulsion from Chile of GORO
MIYASkI, anager of the Compañfa Chilena Oriental, had been
ordered by the Minister of the Interior for the stated reason
that his immigration papers were not in order but actually be-
cause reports of the Dirección General de Investigaciones had
proven him to be a spy. As reported in my strictly confidential
despatch No. 4296/ dated August 28, 1942, the person who informed
the Embassy regarding this action, a high official of Investigacionas
said that he believed Miyasaki to have been the most dangerous
Japanese espionage agent in Chile.
894.20225960
An examination of page 3 of the material obtained by Mr.
Wall and subsequently translated by his Home Office would lead
one at first sight to the opinion that officials of the Com
pañfa Chilena Oriental had foreknowledge of the impending
attaok on Pearl Harbor. In this connection reference is made
to the items noted under the date December 5 Order to evacuate
from

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
from the head of the personnel department"
 . . "(2) methods of liquidating the company." However, it
appears that TAk NO and the other officials of the company could
not have known that the Japanese Navy would attack as early as
December 7 in view of certain plans made by the company on
December 5 as stated in items (3) and (4) of page 3: "(3) state-
rooms on the Tatmuta Maru ordered by the San Francisco office"
and "(4) Made reservation for Panama by airplane (leaving the
21st) and by steamship (leaving the 13th)."
It will be noted that in general the Takano file deals with
Japanese interest in the availability to Japan of strategic war
materials in Chile and in the stooks of strategic minerals and
the production of war materials in the United States. Of more
specific interest, however, is the revelation that officials of
the Compafifa Chilena Oriental were in close contact with Mr.
"MO" immediately prior to his departure for the United States in
November 1942. According to the Takano file (photostat Nos. 178-231),
HAGIWARA and NAKATSUKA met with Mr. O on October 26, 1942, and made
a request of him, probably with regard to a cable reoeived from the
Oriental Cotton Company of Japan; on October 28 Takano received
word fromn this person about a certain matter; on October 29 and
November 10 officials of the company visited the home of Mr. MO;
and on October 29 Hagiwara and Takano deposited in the Japanese
Legation one hundred receipts from r. MO. As the Department is
aware, Ir. MO has been positively identified as Rafael MORENO
Echevarria, anti-American and pro-German Chilean Deputy who has
been in the pay of the Japanese Government for acting as its
agent.
There are other items of possi ble interest to the Depart-
ment in the written material in qestion. As early as September
1, 1942, Takano was taking a pessimistic view of Japan's position
with regard to Chile because of his anxiety over the forthooming
break in diplomatic relations. On the other hand, with character-
istic Japanese optimism, in the "Survey of Amerioan Munitions
Industry" dated July 7, 1942, in the seotion dealing with man-
ganese, it is stated t hat although it is not likely that there
will be a shortage of manganese in the United States until 1965,
since sixty per cent of this mineral will from that year on have
to be imported from overseas, in the face of a blockade the United
States would be in a serious position with regard to manganese.
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
Donald R. Heath,
Counselor of Embassy
Transmitted in triplicate
to the Department.
File No. 820.02
GDA:hoo
2 Carbon Dapiog

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPART ENT OF STATE
The Under Secretary
Lisison Office
A-A
FA
PR
A-B
FBO
AE
②
RC
FEB 25
A-L
FD
RP
AP.
FE
A-S
FF
SA
A-3/2
FF
SA/E
A-S/3
SS
SA/F
A-S/F
CE
SD
CI
IC
SR
CR
ST
DA
LE
TA
DCA
LI
TA/B
IA
TC
DN
IE
TD
DP
FA/D
Tr
EA
FA/I
U
EO
PA/LD
ET
FA/I
VD
EU
PD
WT
PI

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.92)
Took
N. N. I. 96—1948
ISSUED BY THE INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
OFFICE OF CHIEF OF NAYL
23-73
Serial
MonogranmEHidex/Guide No.
602-23
(Start ne w series ench year, 1. e. 1 40, 2-40)
From
Raval Attaché
at ntgo, Chile Date
(Ship fleet, unit, district, oflice, station, or person)
Reference
Source
louspe por
Evaluation
"D-5
(As official, personal observation, publfeaton press. conersation with-
identify when pratticable. etc.)
(As reliable, doubtful, unverified, etc.)
Subject
HLEeJan hysicel Go raphy
Local Pross, Iropagunda
(Nation reported on)
(Main title as pes dgs guide)
(Subtitles)
(Make separate report for each title)
BRIEF. (Here ent: careful summar, of report Vtontamng substance succinctly stated: include important facts. names. places. dates. etc.)
Jopineso prono mropegenca pelease guotiy ateronts of Lt. Condr. Thomas Alton
Donovan, En, nd Lt. Condr. George T. Cooper, R.N., prisonere, concerning
Allied mistr kos end loscos.
1。
The following is a direct translation of n article ap oaring in the
strongly mo-Axis "E1 Chilono" of Santingo on Jamuary 18, 1943:
"LUIGTI O JA AVY ACSOU LG TO A AROER
89
"From c c thern port Jan. 18 -(by YUYI Whs)
4
"The ex-officer of the Generel Steff of tho Amorican airp
carrier "Lencley" cunk on Aurust lst of last yeer, Lt. Condr. In
Alton Donoven, declared: "That it is ti o the the fathers and
in tho United  t tes think seriously on tho morican losces not
of warships nd planes but also of nen'.
"Donovan, tho is one f the highest ranking officere emonththe
2
Americen prisoners at this port, added: Wo found that our Navy which
to thought insuperoble, mas not so, but inferior to the Japenese Navy
6
not only in combat camcity, but in equipment. The losses in warships
and Americen men has bocome alarming. We vould be interestod in kmotre
ing if the American public has been informed of the circumetences
unüer vhich the U.S. Navy wes sent to fight against tho Japanese
PS/JK
Navy'.
894.20210
"On the other hand, Lt. Condr. George T. Cooper of the British
cruiser "Exeter" sunk by e Jamnese dostroyer in the battlg of Jave
declared: 'The Amcricans com itted a foolish act then they Sblid the
Japanose to to to var, tut Churohill also committed c foolish ad vhen
he so openly boested about the Singapore Fortress'.
5
"After pointing out how the vealmess of Singapore affeotou the fell
of the Philippines, Birmenia, Java and other Alliou possessions in the
Far East, e stated: 'I think that our Prino Minister ought now to take
into account het the veeknoss of Singapore has signified to the British
Empire'."
Distribution By Originator
Routing space belew fer use in O. N.I.
DECLASSIFIED
0p.16.
E.O. 11652, Sec. 3(E) cmd 5(D)  
11.963
CIAA
 letter, May 3. 1972
B-7-0
IADB
USPART
State
Mi
Reproduction of thasanterial in any
BuPero.
formihorized except by specific
'on 
BAS
pprovul of the Secretary of the Nav

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIALRA
OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES
WASHINGTON. D. C.
April 28, 1943
MAY 6 1943
DEPARTMEN
Mr. Philip W. Bonsai
Chief, Division of American Republics
Room 316
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
894.20210/220
Dear Mr. Bonsal
I am transmitting herewith one
copy of R. & A. No. 791, "Field Notes on
the Japanese in Latin America". This
report was prepared in the Research and
Analysis Branch of this office and classi-
fied as confidential.
hbs
20210
Sincerely yours,
PSTL
William L. Langet
Director, Branch of
Research & Analysis
MAY 1 7.1943
FILED
Enclosure
dena i

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.97)
May 21, 19
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
0.3296
To the Amerioan Ambassador,
Mexico, D.P.
The Secrstary of State transmits, as of possible
894.20210/220
interest to the Embessy, a confidential revort entitled
"Field Notes on the Japanese in Latin America". Pre-
pared for the Office of Strategic Services by Professor
(now Colonel) Robert B. Hall, this report is based on a
field trip made in the middle of 1942.
Eaclosure:
Report entitled "Field Notes
on the Japamese in Latim Ameriea"
Confidential Fle
MAY 20 1943

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.93)
May 7, 1943
My dear Mr. Langer:
I take pleasure in acknowledging recsipt of your
entitled "Field Notes on Japanese in Latin Ameriea".
Very truly yours,
894.20210 /220
Philip W. Bonsal
Chief, Divisien of
the Ameriean Republies
Mr. William L. Langer,
Direster, Branch' of Research and Analysís,
Ofries ef Strategis Serviess.
JET
RA:JEJ:VLH
5-4-43
LL
CREAX
MAY 6 1943PM
国
Coniadal Fro

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.98)
DIVISION OF
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF THE AMERICAN REPUBLICS
THE AMERICAN REPURLICS
May 5, 1943
DEPARTMENT OF A
RA - Mr. Dr1ey:
Mr. Bonsal:
STAIE
O.S.S. REPORT "FTELD NOTES ON THE
JAPANESE TH. LATIN AMERICA
Attached is a reply
signature.
With respect to the report itself, I think it may
be said that it contains comparatively little informa-
FW 894.20210/220
tion not already available in the Department in.the
form of reports from Mr. Emmerson in Lima, Mr. Cabot
Coville and Mr. Lynn Smith.
However, the O.S.S. report has two definite
adventages. First of all, it is an excellent brief
summary of Japanese immigration, population and
economic activities in the other American republics,
and of the controls established by the Japanese Gov-
ernment and by Japanese corporations over Japanese
immigrants and their second generation descendents.
Secondly, this report presents an excellent and
careful anelysis of population statistics with respect
to Japanese in the other American republics. This is
scarcely surprising since it appears that its author
is Robert B. Hall, Professor of Geogrephy at the
University of Michigan, who has specialized in the
894
study of Japan and the Japanese. I can safely say that
I have seen no more compact and carefully presented
MAY 1 7.1943
study on any foreign minority in the other American
FILED
republics. In addition to text and tables, there are
a number of excellent maps.
One interesting point made in the report is that
there are among the Japanese in Latin America, and
especially in Peru, a number of Okinawans, or natives
of the Loo Choo Archipelago. The report emphasizes the
fact that these people are somewhat despised by the "true
Japanese and that they feel certain resentment on that
account. On pages 37-38 and 65-66 there are suggestions
that it might be possible to take advantage of this fact
in our propaganda and thereby weaken the unity among
the Japanese, especially in Peru, and to a certain ex-
tent in Brazil.
LLJET
RA:JEJ:VLH

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.94)
May 21, 1945
STRICTLY CONVIDENTIAL
no.4498
894.?0?10/220
To the American Ambassador,
Rio de Janeiro.
The Secretary of State tranamits, as of possible
interest to the Embassy, a confidential reportentitled
"Field Notes on the Japanese in Latin America". Pre-
pared for the Orfice of Strategic Servioes by Professor
(now Colonel) Robert. B. Hall, this report is based on a
PS/TL
field trip made in the middle of 1942.
220
894202
Enclosure:
Report entitled "Field Notes on
the Japanese in Latin Ameriea"
Confidential
1
JET
RAIJEIIVLE
MAY 20 1943

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.96)
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
Anited States DeantntehioNfSustice
In reply, please refer
THE AMERCANREPU
to File Numbers 64-21536-1,
DEPARTMENT OFSTA
64-21536-3
Der
Date:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
UNI1943
RECEIVED
To: Honorable Adolf A. Berle,
ADVISER
LPARTMENTOF STATE
Assistant Secretary of State
E
ER
894.20210/221
Federal Bureau dPInvsigation
From: J. Edgar Hoover - Director,
AND REQUREMENTS
Subject: Compania Minero Petrolera del Pacifico--Republic of Ecuador
As of possible interest, there is attached a memorandum concerning
the captioned company, on which previous information has been furnished.
The information has been obtained from a confidential reliable source and
has been made available to the United States Embassies at Quito, Ecuador
and Bogota, Colombia and to the Office of Exports.
Confidential File
Enclosure
cc - Director of Naval Intelligence cc - Assistant Chief of Staff
G-2, War Department
Navy Department
Washington, D. C.
Washington, D. C.
CORRELA
Attn: Colonel L. R. Forney
PS.
PORYICTORY
BUY
UNITED
JUN3 1943
STATES
WAR
BONDS
JUN1948
STAMPS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEPARTMENT OF STIA TE
AN

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.98)
MEMORANDUI
Re: COMPANIA MINERO PETROLERA DEL PACIFICO
Republic of Ecuador
The Compania Minero Petrolera del Pacifico is an Ecuadoran corporation
and appears to be principally owned by Colombians and to have originated in
Bogota. The company was founded in March, 1940 and grew out of concessions
acquired in August, 1939. These concessions were the oil rights to 2,100,000
hectares of land along the coast of the Province of Esmeraldas, in Ecuador.
22
The officers of the company were Luis Matinez Delgado, President; Marco
Antopio Aulle, Vice-President; Gustavo Diez Delgado, Manager; Enrique
Mosquera Wallis, Assistant Manager; and Carlos Meroado, Secretary. Diez
Delgado is an Ecuadoran, and a nephew of President Arroyo del Rio. Mercado
is also an Ecuadoran, but the remainder of the officers are Colombians from
Bogota. However, Luis Martinez Delgado has resided in Ecuador since 1938.
According to the informant, it has been a matter of general knowledge
that the International Petroleum Company, Ltd., has been interested in
buying the concession held by the Compania Minero Petrolera del Pacifico for
some time. The informant states a reliable source has advised that although
there have been many reports of Japanese interests in the company, as yet
no definite information or proof has been developed that the Japanese had any
interest in it. This source advises, however, that information had been
received at the United States Embassy in Bogota from a source believed reliable
to the effect that the Compania Minero Petrolera del Pacifico was controlled
by a Japanese trust and that it was financed by Japanese interests. No details
were set forth as to the trust or the manner of financing. The source further
advised that several other communications to the same effect had been received
from Bogota, but since they did not state specific information and seemed
to be based on rumor, it has not been agreed to give them any credence.
He further stated that in the pending transaction,unls
specific evidence was produced, the Compania Minero Petroler de Pa
would be treated as if no enemy interests were involved, wi texcoption
Confident
that a clause was to be placed in the contract guaranteeingon the part of
the contractors that none of the money should in any event go to subjects
of the Axd.s.
The source of the above information further staate had informatio
to the effect that the Japanese Legation had interested itself in the Compania
Minero Petrolera del Pacifico when it received information that the company
could not afford to hire American geologists. Upon receiving this informa-
Te
tion the Japanese Minister had offered to obtain Japanese geologists at a
lower price than Americans could be paid, and it was stated that Japanese
geologists were hired through his intervention. In regard to Martines Delgado
and Dies Delgado, the source advised he had never received any information
to the effect that these individuals were in any way sympathetic to Japan
or to the Axis.

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.99)
JDUM
Page 2
The informant also advised that another reliable source has stated
that since 1942 the officials of the Compania Minero Petrolera del Pacifico,
principally Luis Martinez Delgado and Gustavo Diez Delgado, and the officials
of the International Petroleum Company had been in agreement upon a contract
whereby the International Petroleum Company was to pay the Compania Minero
Petrolera del Pacifico the sum of $100,000.00 for the concession on the
signing of legal papers and a royalty of two cents per barrel on the first
ten million barrels and one cent per barrel on all the petroleum taken out
thereafter. According to the source, the Delgados are very anxious to
cloge the deal because they have no money with which to pay S/8o,ooo in
taxes coming due on the concession in March, 1943 and they fear a forfeiture
of the lease. According to the informant, all that was needed to culminate
the transaction was the final approval of President Arroyo del Rio.
The source further stated that the International Petroleum Company
had conducted investigations in Ecuador, Bogota and the United States to
determine whether the Japanese held an interest in the company, and as yet,
they had been able to find no evidence of such ownership. He indicated,
however, that he was by no means sure that they did not have such an
interest and said he was suspicious because the officers of the Compania
Minero Petrolera del Pacifico had hired Japanese geologists and had given
as their reason that American geologists wanted more money than the company
could afford to pay. He further stated that he had had an opportunity to
examine the sums paid to the Japanese geologists, and it appeared that
they were paid as much as American geologists would have been paid for the
same work. Therefore, said the informant, it did not appear that the
Japanese geologists had been hired for financial reasons.
The source pointed out an incident which might possibly bear on
the question of Japanese capital in the company. He stated that in June
of 1940, he was travelling from Balboa to Miami when he was accosted by
an American, a total stranger, who said that he represented the Japanese
banking house of Mitsui in Panama and that the Mitsuis were interested in
acquiring rice and oil lands in Ecuador. He told the source that he
would pay him one dollar per hectare for any land that he was instrumental
in assisting him to acquire. He asked the source to stop at the offices of
the Mitsui interests in New York City for further directions. He stated
that he later consulted the president of his (the source's) company and did
not have anything further to do with the Mitsui proposition. The source
suggests that Compania Minero might have received a similar offer and that
the Japanese interests might have been in the nature of an option, pending
the report of their geologists.
The following information has been received from a confidential
reliable source in Bogota, Colombia concerning the Compania Minero Petrolera
del Pacifico:
A confidential reliable source stated that the company in question
was founded August 1, 1939 and was originated by Martines Delgado, Gustavo
Dies Delgado, and Sr. Mosquera. It also appears that one Manuel Topres
Peralta, former secretary to the Colombian Minister of Mines and Petroleum,

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.99)
ORANDUM
Page 3
and presently employed as a landman for the Tropical Oil Company, was also
interested in the company. However, it appears that Torres lost his interest
in the company and its concession in Ecuador through the failure to meet
a payment of 23,000.
According to another source, in January, 1940 Torres went to the
Republic of Ecuador, where he obtained with Martinez Delgado an enormous oil
concession consisting of approximately 4,000,000 hectares, as pointed out
above. Torres lost his concession through the failure to meet the above-
mentioned payment. According to the source, this same concession is the
one which was later obtained by Japanese interests. The Japanese interests
appeared to have arranged with the interested parties, who could not raise
40,000 Colombian pesos, to meet obligations to the Ecuadoran government.
It is said that the Japanese paid the current obligations and that the
negotiations were held in Bogota in the office of one Sugamami and another
Japanese called Nakamura. Nakamura is said to have been the one who actually
paid off in order to keep the whole matter secret. The deal, according to
the source, was legalized in Quito, Ecuador with the assistance of a lawyer
named Ayora. It is said that the Japanese then sent geologists to Ecuador
and mapped the concession. The source is of the opinion that Martinez
Delgado, if not actually presently representing the Japanese, certainly did
so until recently.
In further connection with the negotiations with the Japanese, the
source stated that the payment in question was made in May  June of 1940
and that he believes the Japanese paid in the neighborhood of 500,000 pesos.
It is not known whether the 40,000 pesos used to pay the Ecuadoran government
obligations was extra or was included in the original amount. The contact
man and the individual who seemed to have first interested the Japanese in
the deal is believed to be a former Lieutenant Colonel in the Colombian Army
Intelligence by the name of Felis Castillo Marino. It appears that Castillo
started to interest the Japanese in the proposition during the latter part
of l939, and it is believed that he received a commission for his work in
the transaetion. According to the source, the money paid by the Japanese
was probably paid in the presence of Luis Martinez Delgado on the one side
and Nakamura on the other. It is said to be a positive fact that the meeting
actually took place in Suganami's office in the Bolsa Building in Bogota.
About this time Martines Delgado had been seen in several public conversa-
tions with Suganami and had appeared with him on numerous occasions in the
Hotel Granada.
The files of the confidential source reflect in a memorandum
dated November 13, 1940, that a bill had been prepared for the National
Congress of Colombia jointly by the Minister of Labor and the Minister of
National Economy which would permit the Colombian government to import
rayon directly from Japan and to sell the rayon to private interests.
According to the memerandum, the three Japandse supposedly behipd this
idea were Toranosuke Nakamura, Tadao Nakmmurasand Truneso Yago, all of
whom had arrived in Colombia from Quayaquil, Eouador in October, 1940.

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.99)
ANDUM
Page 4
The files also reveal that one K. Brandoh arrived in Barranquilla from
Bogota February 16, 194l and that he was the secrstary of the Nippon
Trading Agency in Bogota. This individual was apparently connected with
S. Suganami, who had been in Colombia for fifteen years and was the agent
for the Nippon Trading Agency.
The following is a sumary of the information presently available
regarding Shimichi Suganami, who is apparently identical with the Japanese
individual of the same name concerned in this case. His address in Bogota
was Bolsa de Bogota and his occupation, that of agent of the Nippon Trade
Agency. Information was received in August, 1940 that Suganami was born in
Tokyo January 26, 1887 and is a Buddhist. He possessed Passport #214632 and
#113877, the first bearing the date January 16, 1933 and the latter January
21, 1929. It was stated he arrived in Bogota in 1930 to remain for fifteen
days. He allegedly works for the Japanese government and had been in
Colombia four times, the first being in 1928. In December, 1940 a report
was received that the Japanese were endeavoring to purchase scrap iron in
Colombia for Mitsui interests in Japan and that Suganami was the Bogota
agent. In February, 1938 it was stated that Suganami was believed to be
a Japanese Chamber of Commerce representative and possibly connected with
the Japanese government. It was stated that he made an inquiry at the
Tropical Oil Company concerning the possibility of making large purchases,
and repeated the inquiry in October of 1937.
In an undated memorandum, it is reflected that a confidential
reliable source had advised that shortly after his arrival in Bogota, he
encountered a Japanese whose face was familiar. He later recalled that
this individual had been employed in the British Consulate in Manila and
had been implicated in an important espionage case there. He identified
the Japanese as Sugmnami, who was then the manager of the Nippon Trading
Agency and a frequent guest at the home of the Japanese Charge d'Affaires.
It was further stated that it is believed that Suganami was a captain in
the Japanese military service at the time of the Manila incident and that
it was presumed that he was still a member of the Japanese intelligence
service.
In December, 1941 a report was received that Suganami had just
registered with the police, giving his address as the Japanese Legation.
It was indicated that the Legation was then under surveillance by the
police. Final notation indicates that Suganami was deported April 10, 1942.
In connection with Suganami's departure, it is interesting to note that
the Japanese who were being deported from Buenaventura on April 18, 1942
aboard the SS Acadia raised every possible objection to leaying the country,
but finally received the necessary departure orders direct from Tokyo. It
is stated that Suganami even went to the extreme of professing a desire to
become a Catholic and tried to have Catholic leaders intercede for him. His
request, however, was refused.

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.99)
ORANDUM
Page 5
The following data have been obtained from a confidential source
concerning Luis Martinez Delgado. In an undated memorandum, it was stated
that Luis Martinez Delgado was an active defender of Nazism, and that he
is capable of entering into any kind of business enterprise which would
be beneficial to Germany. It was stated that he had had business with
Nazis and Fascists and that these individuals had put him at the head of
the Compania Minero Petrolera del Pacifico in order to work with the
Japanese, who have direct connection with them. On March 16, 1943 a
report was received indicating that Jose Tibau y Duran, Chancellor of the
Spanish Legation, Quito, Ecuador, frequently came from Quito to Tulcan,
where he always stayed with Delgado, "who acts as mailing agent for Carmelite
Friars in that area."
On April 10, 1942 a reliable informant reported that the Righmond
Petroleum Company had become interested in an oil development project on
the coast of Ecuador near the Colombian border. It is stated that rather
than use the company name, the Richmond Petroleum Company had used the
name of a Colombian, Luis Martinez Delgado, and a Venezuelan by the name
of Torres. The informant stated that both men had made plane trips to the
locale in Ecuador and had been reimbursed by Richmond. The source stated
the Richmond Petroleum Company suddenly lost interest in the development,
inasmuch as they heard it was not a good petroleum field. Afterwards,
however, the venture was reestablished and the new company was organized,
under the name of Luis Martinez Delgado, without the participation of
Torres, Richmond, or any American or British oil companies. The informant
stated he suspected that either Japanese or German interest have financed
Luis Martinez Delgado in this venture, since they are the most logical
groups to be interested in oil developments or a possible base on the
west coast of South America.
The informant further stated that the reason he suspects some
connection between Japanese interests and Martinez Delgado is the fact
that the latter has had for some time very friendly relations with the
Nippon Trading Agency, whose offices are on the sixth floor of the Edificio
de la Bolsa.
Considerable information has been reported concerning the
Compania Minero Petrolera del Pacifico suggesting that Japanese are
involved in the company. However, most of the reports are reiterations
of the above and are not considered worthy of mention at this time. Furth
investigation is being made in an endeavor to obtain information either
confirming or nullifying the allegations of Japanese interests in this
company.

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.98)
Lt39
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
Hederal Suréau of Inuestigation
SPECIAL MESSENGER
United States Departmentacypaffce
THE MI HICAN REPUBLIOS
DEPARTMEN OF SPATE
Date:
To:
Honorable Auolf A. Berle, Jr.
JUN71943
SECRET
Assistant Secretary of State
VISA DIVISION
MR.
BERLE
From: J. Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigatio
File
894.20210/222
Department of State
Subject:
JAPSA CASE
FiG COMPANIACHINONA ORIENTAL
NAMBAI TRADING CO.
There is attached hereto a memorandum concerning a Japanese
espionage ring operating principally in Buenos Aires, Argentina, Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil, and Santiago, Chile for the forvarding of information
to Japan.
The individuals in this croup are presently the subject of
intensive investigation, ana as additional information is received you
will be promptly advised. Due to the fact that investigation is
11
presently going forward in this matter, it is requested that the
information contained in this memorandum not be disclosed without
authorization.
This information is available to the American Embassies at
PS/TL
Buenos Aires, Argentina, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, Santiago,
STATE
La Paz, Bolivia, and Bogota, Colombia.
RECEIVED
JUN-91943
DIVISION OF
Attachment
JUN7
1943
Confidential File
cc - Assistant Chief of Staff, C-
JUL 22 1943
War Department
FILED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Washington, D. C.
Attention: Colonel L. R. Forney
Director of Naval Intelligence
Navy Department
VICTORY
Washington, D. C.
SEdRET
BUY

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.99)
JUN 5 1943
RO: JAPSA CASE
Note:
Inasmuch as the principals of this case are actively
being investigated at the present time, disclosure
of this information without authorization is pro-
hibited.
SLCRET
GENERAL
Two factors mitigate against the successful conduct
of espionage by the Japanese in Latin America. The first of
these factors is that of racial physiognomy applicable to the
Japanese the world over, and particularly to Latin America
where this race has never been really socially or racially
assimilated into Latin American Nationals. The second factor -
that twenty of the twenty-one atin American nations have
broken relations with or declared war on Japan - when coupled
with the resulting social and geographical isolation, com-
.202
bine to almost completely impede the Japanese - as Japanese -
in such effort.
Frozen into a national unity by these factors and
under the control of the Japanese Overseas Ministry, the
Japanese National has become entrenched in Japanese govern-
ment controlled, financed and purposed, small industries,
and are compelled to conduct their espionage under the cloak
of Spanish cover names and seemingly small middle class
businesses. Ostensibly individual and unconnected entities,
these Japanese Nationals are actually woven into an inte-
grated espionage network which funnels information to their
onepresently open control point and clearing house, the
Japanese Embassy at Buenos Aires, Argentina.
BACKGROUND
Confidential File
Information has recently been received which
develops the "Japsa" Espionage Ring as being operated
principally in Argentina, Brazil and Chile. Inasmuch as
the Japanese Embassy at Santiago, Chile, flourished openly
until the break of relations in January, 1942, that city
to that time was the intermediary coordination point for
the collection of espionage information for re-transmittal

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
4
to Japan. The control and operation of this system was
originally cloaked under the Compania Chilena Oriental, with
alias Sogledad Commercial Chilena Oriental, the representative
of the Mitsui interests for Chile.
Functioning in a coordinated effort with this cover
company was the Compania Taibo, with alias The Pacific Trading
Company. Both of these Mitsui comnanies, having branches under
varied Spanish names throughout Latin America, were still
further coordinated with the Nambei Trading Company, the Iwei
Company and the Oriental Cotton Wool Company, at Buenos Aires.
Upon the breaking of relations by Chile with the Axis on
January 20, 1?42, the Nambei Trading Company and others at
Buenos Aires became the main focal point for the reception
of information and its re-transmission to Japan. As an
illustration of this, it is known that the Japanese Ambassador
at Buenos Aires has informed Tokyo as follows:
"Various studies are being made of the
proper way. of establishing an organization
of research on conditions in the United States.
In view of the fact that there has been a
suppression of Fifth Column activities and
invigoration of pro-Anglo-American elements,
we are afraid numerous merchants going in
and out of this office would arouse public
criticism. Since the beginning of the war
we have added six persons to the staff in
the U. S. research (Yoshioa of litsui; Liyakawa
of Asano; Izawa of Iwai; Tanabe of Okura; Ogawa
of Shoshen; and Suzuki of Kahematsu). More-
over, Suda of Iwai and Fuiri of Itochu have
been working on South American research. (I
have always had an understanding with the
proper heads of the branch offices.) (These
eight men are now working on secret materials,
and it is again necessary to take over em-
ployees from private business for office work.)
I would like to appoint these eight persons
to the position of shokutaku."
The position of "shokutaku" is the official title
for a specialist attached to a diplomatic mission who is

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
not an employee of the regular roreign service staff. The
Asano mentioned above is the Asano Bussan (Asano Products
Company); Iwai is Iwax Shoten; Okura is Okura - Ministry
of France; Shoshen is Osaka Shoshen Kabushiki Kaisha (Osaka
Steamship Company). In addition, it is known that the
Japanese Ambassador was empowered by the Japanese Foreign
Office to use the personnel of Litsui for investigative
operations concerning American conditions, and also was
allowed to employ other Japanese mercantile personnel in
a similar manner.
PERSONNEL
COMPANIA CHILENA ORIENTAL
Reliable information has been developed that the
Compania Chilena Oriental at Santiago, Chile, is being used
as a cover for the obtainance of espionage information. It
has been ascertained that this firm was originally established
under the name of S. Shuakata in 1935. SI UAKATA himself is
presently believed to be in Buenos Aires, reputedly in charge
of the Mitsui interests at that point. The firm so named was
changed to the Compania Chilena Oriental in 1937 but the
Japanese principals of the company still remained as Mitoui
and Company of Japan. The principal exports of this firm
were ostensibly copper ores, wool, manganese and Chilean
prodyee (barley, oats, wheat, etc.). Two Japanese, KANAME
NAKYAMA and SUCYUKE NAKATSUKA, are reported to have a joint
ownership and interest in the firm. The declared capital of
this company is one hundred twenty thousand dollars (pesos),
but they have operated reputedly in millions of pesos until
the outbreak of the current war. Reputedly, this firm has
in the neighborhood of twenty-five million dollars (pesos)
presently in Chile, which amounts are in the hands of third
parties, but more especially under the control of ISAO TAKADA,
a representative of the Yokohama Specie Pank. . Also employed
by this company at the present time are TAKEO TAKANO, SUSUKI
NAKATSUKA and S. HAGB!ARA, as present managers to replace
one GORO MIYAsAKI. An additional confidential employee of
tris company 1s TAKEO AZASA TANAKA.
Additional information follows regarding this
personnel.

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4-
ISAO TAKADA
TAKADA, a Japanese National and representative of
the Yokohama Specie Bank, resides at Calle Monjitas 560,
Santiago in the same apartment with NAKAYAMA, the Japanese
Naval Attache. It is reported that TAKADA is financially
reimbursing most of the Japanese who appear to be collabo-
rating with the Japanese Ministry, and that the vast majority
of them usually manage to maintain contact with TAKADA, either
personally or through third parties. TAKADA is considered by
the Japanese Legation as an individual of considerable impor-
tance and an expert in both the banking and economic fields.
In addition to being representative of the Yokohama Specie
Bank, TAKADA acts as Chief Financial Advisor to the Nippon
Trade Agency. TAKADA has been reported a number of times as
acting secretary for the Japanese Military Attache, and is
krown to have been present with Japanese Military Attache
TFSINA at a meeting with a number of German espionage sus-
pects at the Munich Cafe in Penaflor on July 19, 1942, where,
it is stated, plans were made for Japanese and German collab-
oration. TAKADA is described as follows:
Age
45 years
Weight
130 pounds
Height
5'5"
Glasses
Horn-rimmed glasses
Hair
Long, black
Eyebrows
Long, black
Characteristics
Domineering
KANAME NAKAYAMA NAKAYAMA
NAKAYAMA presently resides at Avenida Bulnes 80,
Apartment 84, Santiago. In addition to his position with this
company, he is reported as a representative of the Japanese
firm Yoya Lianka Kanisha Ldta. It is also known that although
NAKAYAMA is married to NOBUKA KOBAYASHI MIYANEHI, who left
for Japan on August 18, 1941, he is living with an unknown
young woman recently arrived from Argentina, who is believed
to be his secretary. He is the holder of Brazilian passport
No. O16216 issued at Sao Paulo, Brazil, September 13, 1939.
NAKAYAMA left Kobe, Japan, on March 23, 1935, arrived in
Rio de Janerio in June of the same year, left Santos, Brazil,
on September 18, 1939, from where he journeyed to Santiago,
Chile, via Buenos Aires, arriving in October of the same
year. His Japanese passport is No. Ol286.

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.99)
-5 -
NAKAYAMA has made a special effort to ingratiate
himself with Chilean society, and to some extent has achieved
success. He has endeavored to develop friendships among
important governmental and army officials, and through these
individuals he has been able to photograph many important
installations. It might be noted at this point that NAKAYAMA
is the owner of a complete set of very expensive photographic
equipment, which includes two of the best modern Leica
cameras.
NAKAYAMA, it is said, is the son of a wealthy Japanese
who is a member of several large Japanese industrial concerns
in Japan, and it is believed that because of type and volume
of. his contacts that he is also charged with a portion of the
Mitsui fund dispersals through the Japanese Consulate. NAKA-
YAMA has never hesitated to boast of his former affiliation
with the Japanese Army as a Captain and his speciality as a
commercial draftsman artist. He is known, however, to be
somewhat contemptuous of his fellow Japanese employees in the
company, who, it is stated, treat this individual with consider-
able respect.
During February of 1940 NAKAYAl'A began to assemble
aerlal photographs of the Chilean coastal regions, with par-
ticular attention to terrain details. It is known that he
endeavored at that time to amass a collection of these photo-
graphs which it was believed he obtained from the Linea Aerea
Nacional, the Chilean Air Line.
NAKAYALA's interests, however, extend to other sub-
jects, and it is reliably reported that as an expert drafts-
man he has made accurate maps of the coal mine districts of
the south of Chile. In addition, reputedly, he has made a
complete study of coal and copper mining in Chile. He has
stated that his investigations and interest in these matters
were prompted by his ultimate intention of forming a large
scale Japanese Chilean firm to exploit these mines in Chile.
During the period that GORO MIYASAKI acted as Manager
of the Company, it appeared that NAKAYAMA served more or less
as his private secretary and intimate friend, travelling in
the same general social circles. It is known that in addition

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
to receiving salary payments in Santiago, Nakayama, in the
position of being an agent of the South American Cotton Com-
pany of Dallas and Santiago received his May and June, 194l,
salary totalling $3l2.00, through the Sao Paulo, Brazil, office
of the company. The correspondence forwarding this payment,
copies of which were furnished to New York and Dallas, stated
that NAKAYAMA's May salary had been paid by the Osaka main
office in Japan, but that future salary would come from the
New York office at the rate of $156 per month. It is to be
noted that a letter from the Sao Paulo office dated May 19,
1941, advised the Santiago office that separate from the
salary question the Sao Paulo office desired to know why
the Santiago office requested 40,000 or $50,000 from a cir-
culating fund maintained in the Dallas office. The inquiry
requested that the withdrawal would depend on how and when
it was to be repaid, and who was to receive it.
NAKAYAMA is described as follows:
Age
28 years
Height
1.66 meters
Weight
132 pounds
Glasses
Light rimmed spectacles
Build
Wiry, slender
Charecteristics
Walks very rapidly, dresses
fastidiously
GORO MIYASAKI
This individual, former manager of the Compania
Chilena Oriental, is presently living in Cordoba, Argentina,
as a concession from his Argentine Government Internment
Processo, which ordered him interned in the Plaza Hotel,
Cordoba, Argentina. This individual was born in Shizueka,
Japan, on July 29, 1903. MIYASAKI has practically commuted
throughout lower Latin America during the last eight years,
with his main headquarters at Santiago, Chile, where he
was manager of the Compania Chilena Oriental. As an
example of Subject's Japanese intelligence activities, it
is known that MIYASAKI arranged for and planned the robbery
against the American Cultural Attache at Santiago, Chile,
on the part of Alira Inostrozo in the belief that the

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.99)
-7~
Cultural Attache was the Intelligence Officer of the American
Embassy and as a consequence documents valuable to the Japanese
would be so procured. A further example of his connections
is in the fact that a close collaborator with MIYASAKI was
one HANS POCHERS, formerly German Consul General at New York
City, presently interned at Zapallar, Chile.
On September 15, 1942, the Chilean government failed
to renew the passport of MIYASAKI, who was forced to flee to
Argentina. LIYASAKI was arrested by the Mendoza, Argentina
Police as a Japanese espionage agent and undesirable person.
Since MIYASAKI's move to Buenos Aires, it has become known
that he is associated with and used as a cover the Nambei
Export and Import Company, San Martin 379, Buenos Aires.
Voluminous reports have been received from reliable
sources to the effect that from 1936 on, MIYASAKI, protected
by his commercial activities, has carried on an active espion-
age campaign in favor of Japan. It is said that it was the
result of the public disclosure of these activities that prompted
MIYAShKI's move to Chile where his activities were continued.
As an example of Subject's travels, the records show
that IYASAKI has a passport granted by the Japanese Consul
in Buenos Aires in February of 194l, which is followed by a
six month's visa by the Chilean Corfsulate at that point. In
March of 194l MIYASAKI went by air to Bolivia and again ob-
tained a further visa for Chile from the Peruvian government
on April 27, 194l. His passport was re-visaed by the
Argentine Consul at Santiago, Chile, on September 1l, 1942,
in order to provide for his being expelled from the country.
A review of the reports received shows that in
addition to the supervisory duties which MIYASAKI had with
the Compania Chilena Oriental while in Chile, he was also
very active with the direction of general Japanese activities
through the intermediary of the Nippon Trade Agency and the
Club de Residentes of Santiago, ru by one MIYOSHI SHIGO
SOZAN, a member of the Overseas Ministry, as a medium of
Japanese propaganda. As a further example of Subject's
activities, during the course of one of MIYASAKI's trips,
his luggage was searched at Arica, Chile, by agents of the
Department of Investigations and a number of maps of ports,

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
airports, coastal defenses and mineral regions were removed
from his luggage.
The following description of MIYASAKI has been
received:
Age
40 years
Height
1.69 meters
Weight
165 pounds
Build
Heavy, athletic
Face
Broad
Clothes
Dresses well
Languages
English, Spanish and Japanese
Hair
Dark, long
TAKEO GAKUO TAKANO
This individual, one of the present managers of the
Compania Chilena Oriental, was born in Yokohama, Japan, in
1904. Information has been supplied that this individual,
acting as secretary for the company, is the actual coordinator
of economic intelligence information received by the company,
and in addition is known to work for the Japanese Legation.
An example of this latter is the fact that he himself has
noted that on November 14 to 16, 1942, he worked all day send-
ing by cable to Japan, the report on the survey of metals in
America.
TAKANO left Tokyo, Japan, on March 8, 1940, and
arrived in San Francisco, California, enroute to Santiago,
Chile, where he arrived on April 20, 194l. At that time
as well, TAKANO was employed by the Mitsui interest, inasmuch
as his United States address was given as Mitsui and Company,
New York City.
SUSUKI NAKATSUKA
This individual, a Japanese National 36 years of
age, is considered to be the actual ostensible successor to
MIYASAKI as Manager of the Compania Chilena Oriental. It is
noted that NAKATSUKA, similarly with MIYASAKI, was a contact
of HANS BORCHERS. It has been reliably reported that this

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.99)
- 9 -
individual, considered the most capable business man of the
company, is a member of the Japanese Naval forces sent from
Japan as an intelligence observer.
NAKATSUKA is described as follows:
Age
36 years
Height
1.65 meters
Weight
128 pounds
Build
Stoop-shouldered, slender
Glasses
Horn-rimmed glasses
Face
Pasty complexion, thick lips
TAKEO OZASA TANAKA
This Japanese National, 40 years of age, is the holder
of Argentine Passport No. O08363 and Argentine Certificate of
Identification No. 78O8l9. His wife's name is HIRO YAyAGATA
and is the holder of Passport No. O50071 and Argentine Certifi-
cate of Identification 135l33l. This individual has two
daughters, MYRIAN and YORANDA, both Argentine citizens by
birth, and the holders of Identification Certificates Nos.
3358784 and 3358785, respectively. This subject has been
in Chile since 1938, having been formerly connected with
Japanese business houses in Buenos Aires as an expert in
cotton goods and statistics. He is considered as NAKATSUkA's
right-hand men.
OZASA TANAKA is described as follows:
Age
40 years
Weight
138 pounds
Height
1.69 meters
Appearance
Typically Japanese
Languages
Fluent Spanish and Japanese
S. HAGEWARA
This. individual, a Japanese National, formerly he
accountant for the company and believed to be the official
successor to MIYAsAKI, is similarly reported as being involved
in Japanese espionage due to his German contacts and his close
association with the Naval and Military Attaches of the
Japanese -Embassy.

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
He is reportedly described as follows:
Age
37 years
Weight
120 pounds
Height
1.72 meters
Build
Thin
General appearance Sickly; typically Japanese
NAMBEI TRADING COMPANY
This firm, formerly at San Martin 379, and presently
at Larrea 1287, Buenos Aires, is a Japanese Importing and Ex-
porting Corpany which Mitsui controls. This organization was
incorporated as Sociedad Anonima on January 14, 1937, for a
period of 50 years, with a subscribed capital of 50,000 pesos.
Its manager and president, ISOMA KQBAYASHI, residing at Jura-
mento 108574, is a close associate of the Japanese Ambassador
at Buenos Aires. KOBAYASHI, a Japanese National who was born
in Japan on October 1, 1937, has been manager of the Nambei
Company since his arrival in Argentina on October 10, 1939.
Other offigers of the company are MASAHARU TOKUNAGA
and YOSHIKAZU CHIASHI, directors.
ESPIONAGE OPERATION AND CONTENT
A review of the confidential files of TAKEO TAKANO
of the Compania Chilena Oriental, made available through a
confidential source, reveals that this company is heavily
engaged in espionage activities for the Japanese. An example
of the content of such files is shown by the following letter
dated September 16, 1942, with the heading "South Chile No. 2"
in regard to matters preyiously agreed upon concerning corres-
pondence to one S. MIURA of the Nambei Trading Company at
Buenos Aires from TAKANO of the Compania Chilena Oriental.
This correspondence translated from the Japanese reads as
follows:
"1. Not too many written acknowledgments.
2. Not to include name and address of sender
or receiver.
3. Include only changes and enclosures.

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
"4. Write briefly only the essential points.
5.
Your name and address, Ramon Mihura.
A. Usual address, Dr. Francisco Ortiz,
Tucuman 1687.
On special occasions, Humbolt 2477,
5th Floor No. 11.
6.
Our names and addresses.
Ozasa
Sr. Enrique Clivos
Nakayama
Sr. Manuel Correa
A. Usual address, . 0. Box 2146. (Do
not include name of the company "Bussan",
write my foreign name above the post box
number.)
B.
On special occasions, Dr. Juan Esteban
Montero, P. 0. Box 2526 (telephone 84129).
P. S. As for your address, I do not know of any street
called Humbolt. Isn't it a mistake for lst. Humbelto?"
This communication, inasmuch as it is unsigned, ob-
viously was never sent. However, it is apparent that these es-
pionage administrative instructions were carried out, inasmuch
as the letter set out infra shows that on the sixteenth of
September the same instructions must have been sent to Buenos
Aires in another communication in order that the following
communication make sense, and undoubtedly refers to this
information.
"Buenos Aires
October 1, 1942
"Enrique Olivos
Manuel Correo
Post Office Box 2146
Santiago, Chile.
Gentlemen:
With reference to your letter of the l6th
of last month, Nanti Number 2, please cancel
address A of 5, and send to the following
address,
Mr. S. Miura
Larrea 1287
Buenos Aires.

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.99)
- 12 -
"Thanking you for your attention to this,
I am
Sincerely yours,
S. Miura"
Identification of the individuals mentioned in these
communications shows that . IUfA, presently in charge of the
office of the South American Cotton Company at Buenos Aires,
which is also known as the Southern cotton Company in the
United States, is believed to be identical with S. MIURA,
formerly in charge of the New York Office of this latter
company, which is the Mitsui interest at that point. However,
the address given by him as Larrea 1287 is that of the Nambei
Trading Company.
TAKEO OZAA and KANAME NAKAYAMA, both of whom are
identified supra, evidently then, are representatives in
Santiago for this same South American Cotton Company, in addi-
tion to being employees of the Compania Chilena riental. It
is known that one T. TANAKA, formerly of 343 Jest 87th Street,
New Lork City, was also an employee of the New York Branch of
Mitsui Company, and it is believed that he is identical with
TAKEO OZASA (TANAKA)
The name and address of Dr. FiANCISCO ORTIZ, Tucuman
1687 has been identified at Buenos Aires. ORTIZ has been found
to be an elderly lawyer serving as counsel for the Nambei Trad-
ing Company, and it has been revealed that he served as Argen-
tine Consul in Tokyo for a period of approximately twenty
years. The address Tucuman 1687 is the home of CRTIZ.
In his capacity as counsel for the Nambei Trading
Company, it is known that ORTIZ has been asked by ISOiA
KOBAYASHI, Manager of the Company, if he would be willing
to serve as intermediary for the transmission of Japanese
correspondence from Chile to the Nambei headquarters at
Buenos Aires. Inasmuch as ORTIZ was counsel for this company,
he allowed this procedure to be carried on until he began to

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
receive coded messages, and as a consequence advised KOBAYASHI
that he would not be willing to continue under such conditions.
It is believed that this circumstance is the reason for the
letter from MIUfA, set out supra, advising that the ORTIZ
address was to be no longer used.
Dr. JUAN ESTEBAN MONTERO, P. 0. Box 2526 has been
identified as the 1932 President of Chile. Montero resides
and maintains his offices at Calle Santo Domingo 1382/6,
Santiago, Chile. He was born February 12, 1879, a Chilean
citizen, and has held prominent positions ranging from a
professorship of Roman law at the University of Chile, Minister
of Interior, up to the Presidency of Chile. He was elected
President of Chile for the constitutional period extending
from 1931 through 1937, but served only one year of this term
because of a revolutionary movement. Although it is known
that MONTFRO is a member of the Chilean hadical Party, which is
quite pro-democratic in its sentiments, MONP!tO has stated that
he believes the Germans will ultimately win the war.
At the present time it is known that MONTEhO is actively
engaged with one BAIEND BAtRNDS, the accountant for the Compania
Chilena Oriental, in an effort to liberate NAKATSUA and NAKAYAMA
from their internment as Japanese Nationals, which has been
ordered by the Chilean government.
Perusal of the files of the Company shows a voluminous
mass of material consisting of reports and drafts of reports on
United States strategic materials, governmental operation, and
data concerning minute details of war production, distribution
and consumption. It is noted that the majority of this material
is referenced from sources such as Fortune magazine, Nation,
Time, Mineral Industry, Mining Industry, News Week, American
Bureau of Metal Statistics, United States Pureau of Mines,
The Engineering and Mining Journal, and a number of government-
distributed pamphlets. An example of the type of surveys is
best shown by one which is titled "Report of Investigation of
Supply and Demand in the United States of Tin, Manganese and
Chromium - Revised and Printed October 25, 1942. Mitsui Bussan,
Miyasaki, Survey". Similar surveys in this material had such
varied subjects as follows:

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
"Summary of General Survey of Liunitions Industry"
"Munitions Production Flan - faw Materials and Resources"
"Aircraft Production and Industrial Machinery Production"
"The Economic Failure of the United States - Survey of
Yeak Points"
The method of collating such information is shown by
the fact that the following announcement was found in these
files:
"Thursday, May 28, 1942
"The day before yesterday it was announced
by the Diplomatic Establishment that there will
be held Thursday at the Official Residence the
meeting of the Survey and Research Society,
concerning which reports will be submitted by
Friday. This morning the items arranged for
survey as noted above have been determined,
and the translations of all the members will
be examined and classified, and together with
Mr. Hagiwara will be synthesized."
The HAGIWARA mentioned is believed to be the one
identified supra.
"To the Head of the Compania Chilena Oriental.
Re: Investigation of the Mining and
Farming Industries in this
Country.
"Have received your letter and orders of
September 26. Summary investigation of this
matter follows.
"In brief, there is in this country a
deficiency in total resources and, moreover,
at the time of the investigation (survey)
it was noted no surplus and an extreme
carelessness. It is requested that oppor-
tunity be granted, if the opportunity is
seen, to draw up a more detailed report.
Yamamoto
Resident Member in Bolivia"

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
Also mentioned in these files as collaborating in
such surveys are the Sanwa Company of LaPaz, Bolivia and the
Japan Colombian Trading Company of Bogota, Colombia.
A complete file was found in this material as to
the initial measures which were taken by the company at the
beginning of the war and plans for the probable evacuation of
the personnel during December of 1941. The data shown under
date of December 5, 1941, indicates that previous warning had
been given to the company as shown by notations that en order
to evacuate had been received from the head of the Personnel
Department at & gathering held by Manager MIYASAKI. Instruc-
tions were given as to the work of each man, the methods of
liquidating the company, the plans for reservations on the
Tatsuta Maru ordered by the San Francisco office, and a pro-
gram for the firm to be a "sleeper company" in the future.
These notes recorded the designation of a liguidator as one
Lawyer MONTERO, working for the Stout Company.
The division of work to be accomplished prior to
the evacuation was listed under date of December 6, 1941, as:
HAGIVARA - Liquidation business
KATANO - Export and account liquidation
NAKATSUKE - Collection of import bills
KOSASA - Assisting in collection of import bills
NAKAYAMA - Arrangements for the departure and
the handling of employees
Under date of December 7, 1941, was listed the report
of the outbreak of the Japanese-American war, and the fact that
all documents and correspondence were put into a cotton bag
and taken to the home of MIYASAKI for burning. Under date of
December 8, the documents were actually burned, with the nota-
tion "Made sure from the garden that no smoke was emitted. Two
men attended the fire alternately in thirty-minute shifts."
Financial arrangements showed that three million
pesos would be deposited in the custody of the Legation and
one million pesos deposited in the custody of the Stout Company.

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.99)
- 16 -
This latter transaction is noted as "Ostensibly this is a
special deposit by this company as reparation for wool can-
celation. It will be returned at any time. A receipt will
be obtained."
The notations further arranged for three hundred
sixty thousand pesos as a provision for individual emergen-
cies. Of this, each employee was to have ten thousand pesos
with the remainder to be in the possession of MIYASAKI. In
addition, as an emergency fund, one hundred thousand pesos
were to be given to Mr. LONTERO, the lawyer, who was to
receive also a list prepared as to the name, age, address,
telephone number and carnet number of the various employees.
Merely as a note to show the close connection of the Compania
Chilena Oriental with the Caga Taibo (Paglfic Commercial
Trading Company), the following comment was found:
"Order - There was the incident of a
Taibo (Pacific Commercial) employee who
quarrelled with an American and was in-
jured. Everybody said he was simply crazy."
Instructions were further given as to the conduct
of the employees; the clothing and property to be taken along;
the other property to be left in custody; and warnings concern-
ing things which should not be done, such as the discussion of
the war situation or the bothering of the Legation personnel.
As a further example of the integration between the
various named companies and their branches, correspondence was
found sent from the Sao Paulo office of the South American Cotton.
Company to the Santiago agents in the Compania Chilena Oriental,
advising them that they would be listed on the "Japanese Division"
and in the future would receive their salaries from the main
office. Other such correspondence directed from the same office
to Buenos Aires as well as Santiago noted that the Sao Paulo Office
had been disbursing large sums to agents, and since part of the
money had come from Osaka, Japan, it was requested that the
agents submit an account showing distribution of the funds and
what remained. Further, a communication was found from OZASA
to one MITSUZO HOSHZKUMA, Personnel Manager of the Toyo Cotton

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.99)
-17 -
and to SEIJIRO SHDA, Manager of the South American Cotton
Company, complaining of the fact that the Santiago "agents"
had not received a raise despite the fact that he had been
with the company for two years and that NAKAYAMA had been with
them a year and a half.
Communications were found to MIURA expressing anxiety
at the Chilean situation since Brazil had declared war, and
requesting permission from LIURA, as being in charge of the
employees of the Mitsui Company, to come to Buenos Aires, and
stated that permission had been received from Japan. Replies
from lIURA were also found advising that extreme discretion be
used to avoid any behavior which would excite the attention of
the authorities. In view of the situation, MIURA was requested
(September 7, 1942) that all important letters be addressed
to him under the name of RAMON MIHURA, Humbolt 2477, 5th Floor,
No. 11, and that OZASO and NAKAYAMA "in considering possible
situations which might arise should choose another foreign
name and address" which should be communicated to Miura.
A carbon copy of a letter dated October 7, 1942,
from OZASA to one ANTONIO GONZALEZ, address unknown, but
believed to be Santiago was found. This letter stated that
the Toyo Cotton Company had cabled that provided permission
was obtained from the Chilean Government, they would send
$15,000 to cover three years' expenses. After advising this
information, OZASA wishes to know if there will be danger of
having these funds frozen so as to be unable to draw out money
for living expenses. To date GONZALEZ has not been identified.
Communication listed as Letter #7 from "South Chile"
dated October 31, 1942, was found stating that TAKANO's new
office was Huerfana 578, Apartment D, and the residence of both
OZASA and NAKAYAMA was Estado 75. In this communication the
writer advises that he has not telegraphed the main office in
Japan because Japanese and coded telegrams are prohibited,
and he wants to keep the place of this new office a secret.
However, if it is necessary, the writer wishes the addressee
(MIURA) to do it in Japanese from Buenos Aires. This same
individual, also writing letter #1 from South Chile under
date of October 29, 1942, after commenting that telephones
in Chile belonged to American capital and therefore the sub-

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.99)
- 18 -
stance of conversations were known, asks that the Bussan
telephone be used in calling him, and gives a schedule of
times and places to call, with instructions to use the Trans-
Radio Company international telephone.
In return for this communication …IURA advises as
to the possibility of the families of OZASA and NAKAYAMA
coming to Buenos Aires and states that his home telephone
number is Buenos Aires, Parque 1244, and that of the Company
is Callao 2376.
A large amount of varied miscellaneous material was
also found in these files. Among such data was a notation
that the Japanese Association of Santiago had moved to Moneda
1806 and had a telephone of 69526, and was having its usual
business hours from 3 to 6 P.1.
This material further showed that company carried
a great deal of its financial banking operations with the
German Bank at Santiago.
On February 10, 1943, a communication post-marked at
Buenos Aires, Argentina, was addressed to Candido Santidrian
Castillo, Correa #5, Casilla olOl, Santiago, Chile. This
communication was decoded from the Japanese coded as follows:
"Your telegram #03
(1) Am reporting arrival dates according to
principle divisions.
A. Concerning the (serial) numbers of
mailed messages, 8 and #1l have
not yet arrived. The transmission
by radio up to #14 is completed.
B.
Concerning the (serial) numbers of
messages, transmission by radio of
all up to #19 has been completed.
C.
Six unnumbered messages have been
transmitted since January 15. Of
these two (constituted) message
#24 to the Minister. (One was
transmitted January 15 and the

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.99)
-19-
other January 19, encoded accord-
ing to the system of the head of
this government office.) Two
others were designated by the
letters "A" and "B" in place of
numbers (all having been handled
in the code of the head of the
government office).
(2)
There have been some sections "cut" by
the censor from messages from you
addressed to the alias "Francisco
Ortiz", but we have had no trouble in
decipherment.
(3)
It has been possible to dispatch from
this place postal messages up to #7
(which was sent January 30), but have
you transmitted them all by radio?
(4)
The first three messages are all
telegrams which have come from the
Minister (of the Jap. Cabinet)
A. From the TAIHEIYO BOEKI (Pacific
Cormercial) to KAyAGUCHI, the
resident agent in Santiago (the
following message was sent:)
'Conversation completed. Have
it telegraphed that the money
from ONO (OHNO) to IWAI has been
received. 1,500,000 request by
telegraph from Buenos Aires has
not yet come.'
B.
From the IWAI Company to ONO
(OHNO), the Santiago Agent, (the
following message:) 'Have arranged.'
C.
From the Pacific Commercial to
Kawaguchi (the following message:)
'1,500,000 received. How about
compensation to agency?'n
From this example of the espionage workings of the
group, it can be seen that the address of FTANCISCO ORTIZ is
presently again being used. The only individual in such

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.99)
- 20 -
communication not previously identified is one CNC (OHNO).
This individual was SIRO ONO, living at Pauline Alfonso 6,
Apartment B, 2nd Floor, Santiago, repeatedly reported as a
Japanese espionage agent, and known to be a captain in the
Japanese Navy. ONO, who died of cerebral hemorrhages on
March 12, 1943, was a representative of Iwai and Company in
Santiago, Chile. ONO is known to have used post office box
Casilla 33lO at Correo Central, in Santiago, which is listed
in the name of ROBERTO HIDELL NOBEL: It is also known that
this post office box is being used also by a presently
unknown German girl living at Calle Las Horas 1670, Santiago.
The Iwai Company, mentiened in the Castillo letter,
was formed under the name of Iwai Argentine Sociedad de Resp.
Limitada at Buenos Aires, for the purpose of carrying on an
export and import business under the capital of 70,000 pesos.
It presently occupies space in the Eanco Germanico Building,
which also houses the German Embassy. One SUKEYE ASAYA and
KENKICHI SUDA are the Lanager and Assistant Maneger, respec-
tively. Other employees of the Iwai Company of Buenos Aires
who are listed as officers are DAIZAFURO SUEMATSU (also
Treasurer of the Soctedad de Residentes Japones in Argen-
tina), and HII:OHI ISAWA (Secretary of the same society and
also Secretary to SUMaTSU). The United States Branch of
this company is Iwai and Company, 233 Eroadway, New York
City.
The Casa Taibo, similarly noted in this letter,
and which is also known as the Pacific Commercial Company,
at Santiago, Chile, is one of the three largest Japanese
import and export firms in Chile, with headquarters at
Huerfanos 972. This company has also been repeatedly
reported to be a center of Japanese subversive activities.
This firm, subsidized by the Japanese Government, emphasizes
trading to Japan in minerals. It also was the agent for
the NYK Steamship Line. The firm was originally known as
the Pacific Commercial Trading Company until 1927 when it
was involved in a customs duty defrauding whereupon the
title was changed. After several reorganizations, it
eventually wound up in 1938 under the name of the Compania
Commercial Taibo, with a capital of a million pesos. It is

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.99)
- 21 -
interesting to note that the capital was paid into the Banco
de Chile and that at times the firm has been indebted to the
sum of three million dollars to this bank, guaranteed by
"dollars in New York". It hes been reported reliably that
eight million dollars in pesos of this firm are being held
by one TAKADA, the representative of the Yokohama Specie
bank at Santiago and reputedly the disperser of funds for
the Japanese Legation at that point.
An intensive investigation has been carried on
concerning CASTILLO, to whom instant message was addressed,
and it has been found that he is of Spanish nationality, a
merchant, and resides at Cuevas l494. To date, close super-
vision of his activities has met with negative results as to
any subversive activities on his part.
It has been ascertained that the communication re-
ceived at CASTILLO's post office box was picked up by a pro-
stitute named CARMEN and taken to one KO KAWAMURA, an employee
of the Casa Taibo. The prostitute CAkMEN resides at a house
of prostitution located at Calle Los Valdeses 627, which is
known to be the present meeting place for confidential visits
between FUKONOSUKE NOVA, the Manager of Casa Itoh, and Dr.
RUPERTO VARCAS MOLINAHE, the brother of GUSTAVO VAROAS
MOLINARE, the pro-Nazi Chilean Deputy and Chief of the "Lo
Condores de Chile". This latter Axis propaganda organization
is believed to be financially backed by the Japanese.
The only further communications received at the
CASTILLO drop box have been copies of the La Prensa newspaper
of Buenos Aires, mailed from that point.
On April 29, 1943, a small piece of paper contain-
ing a message written in Japanese fell from the pocket of Taibo
Manager KAWAGUCHI, which stated "To Senda: Study as soon as
possible and act quickly." It is believed thet the "Senda"
referred to is the former employee of the Casa Hombo, a prom-
inent Santiago Japanese firm who presently acts as a collabo-
rator of KAWAGUCHI.
Advice has been received from a confidential source
at Buenos Aires that coded communications presently undecipherable

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.99)
22 -
are being forwarded through FRANCISCO ORTIZ for Nambei Trading
Company Manager ISOMA KOBAYASHI. These communications are
return-addressed as "RCDOIFO IBARFA, Galvez 131, Santiago,
Chile". Additional advice has how been received that there is
no individual by this name residing at this address, which is
a rooming house.
On September 28, 1942, two communications postmarked
at Buenos Aires, Argentina, were intercepted and brought to
light. One communication bore the return address of FRANCISCO
ORTIZ, Tucuman 1687, buenos Aires. The other had no return
address. Laboratory examination showed that both communications
were written by the same person. These commyncations were
addressed, respectively, to Dr. ALBETO GOIS TELLES, Avenida,
Rio Branco 143, 4th Floor, Rio de Janerio, Brazil, and to Dr.
ARY P. de ANDRADE FIGUEIRA, de Rosario lO7, 3rd Floor, Rio de
Janerio, Brazil.
Additional laboratory examination reflects that the
typewriter used to prepare these messages was also used to
prepare the Santiago letters from HIUfA at Buenos Aires.
Investigation of Dr. ALBEItTO GOIS TELLES, home
address Rua Toneleiros l67, reveals that he is the proprietor
of a jewelry and curio shop at Avenida, Rio Branco 143, Rio
de Janerio, Brazil. It is known that TELlES is accustomed
to associate with Jepanese, end it is reported that TELLES
has a daughter who is in love with an employee of the Japanese
Embassy at Rio de Janerio. It is further reported that this
daughter worked at the Japanese Embassy prior to its being
closed by the Prazilian Government.
It has been ascertained that Dr. AhY P. de ANDRADE
FIGUEIRA is a wealthy lawyer and was the partner of one Dr.
ANTENOR VIERIA dos SANTCS, falling heir to dos SANTOS's con-
siderable practice at his death. FIGUEIRA has been attorney
for the Bank of London and South America at Rio de Janerio for
a number of years. lle is also the representative of the
Yokohama Specie Bank and other Japanese firms.
The communication addressed to TELLES and which
carried the return address of FRANCISCO OFTIZ, advised TELLES

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.99)
-23 -
in Spanish to deliver an enclosed letter to a Mr. NAGAI. The
communication to NAGAI requested NAGAI as follows:
"South Brazil #7 - September 4, 1942
"Please give Mr. Suitaka Hayao help
according to special enclosure.When
finished, be sure to send the simple message
"Finished". I think you already know the
address. If not, ask at the Yokohana
Specie Bank."
Attached to this communication was the following
communication:
"No. 6 - September 3, 1942.
"Your communication number seven is
at hand.
"Because Brazil has declared war on
Germany and Italy, her attitude toward Japan
will harden. I will keep you informed of
this and hope that better relations will
come about.
"In regard to the matter in the other
letter, if the directors are given three
months' notice and relieved of the office,
there is no other way but to depend upon
the Brazilian Government for the manage-
ment of the property of the Brazil Japan
Company. The Specie Bank agrees thet
there is no other suitable course.
"If the Company registers the pro-
perty with Department of Property, it can
be held for 15 years, so it should be
handled that way.
"If the Government takes over the
management, what about your salary and
other supplies?

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.99)
- 24 -
"Please take note of the following:
1. Don't send documents that are
too thick to this place. Stop
at 3 or 4 pages.
2.
Do not affix your seal. (Stop
using company postage.)
3.
Change this company address from
time to time. I want to say
this definitely to you.
"Your number 4 has not been received.
Do not affix the company insignia, and even
though you have to write with a pencil, stick
to the essential facts.
"From this place to you how about sending
addressed 'Teller' without putting on 'Japan
Brazil Co.'?"
The communication to Dr. ARY P. de ANDRADE FIGUEIRA
enclosing an envelope addressed to Mr. R. NACaI, Rio de Janerio,
which in turn contained an unsigned message written in Japenese,
was a request for instructions of a commercial nature on "how
to proceed in case of the nationalization of the society or of
the revision of the agreement regarding said society by the
Brazilian Government in view of the international situation's
becoming aggravated." The letter also cautioned the addressee
to "change the address of the Company from time to time," and
further that he should not include anything that would identify
his letters.
To date, R. NAGAI has not been identified. However,
SUETAKA HAYAO, for whom the coded message was destined, is
known to be the former second secretary of the Japanese Embassy
at Rio de Janerio. He is presently acting as a representative
of the Japanese Government for the handling of Japanese interests
in Brazil. He maintains an office in the Spanish Embassy at
Rio de Janerio, along with one HEINRICH EHLERT and EUGLN JUNZCK
representing the German interests, who likewise maintain offices
in the Spanish Embassy.

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.96)
-25-
In an independent investigation being condyeted
concerning Colonel Count FREIDI.ICH H. KARL GRAF ZEDLITZ,
reliably reported as a Nazi agent and head of the German
Secret Service in Lrazil, informtion has been developed
that ZEDIITZ is a representative of, and connected with,
the Japanese firm of Mihara and Co., Alsina 478, Buenos
Aires. It has been ascertained in this case that ZEDLITZ
is under the orders of the Gernan Ambassador, with the
particular mission of finding out the dates of arrival
and departure of allied ships. An investigation is presently
going forward in an effort to definitely identify "S. LiIUPA"
with this Mihura Company.
8
Similarly, advice has been received from a reliable,
b
confidential source that Tokyo, Japan, hes requested one
h
"LiIURI" of Buenos Aires to telegraph his opinion as to the
anti-aircraft defense system presently being used on the east
e
coast of the United States. He is also to furnish data on
0210
the American air forces in China, including their formation
and strength, supply routes, and the quantity of planes in
terms of percentage of whole numbers being sent to world
fronts. Investigation is presently going forward in an
effort to identify this " IUkI" as well in connection with
this case.
2
22

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.97)
JOHN EDGAR HOOVER
DIRECTOR
Division of
EAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Jederal Burean of Inuestigation
JUN 2 9 1943
Depa tment of StatBY SPECIAL MESSENGER
Mashington,D. C.
RHOHITVRID
DCR
(H)-Fc
Date:
OIVISION
To:
Asistant Secretary
1943
PETRSLE... ADVISER
BERLE
From: J. Edgar Hoover - Director,
OF STATE
Subject: Japanese Activities in Argentina
894.20210/223
As of possible interest to you, information is being furnished
concerning Japanese activities in Argentina. This information was
received from a reliable, confidential source and has been made available
to the American Embassy in Buenos Aires, Argentina.
It has been reported that Carlos Sapta Cruz, who is a Chilean,
is planning a trip for the Japanese to Bolivia, Peru, and Ecuador under
the direction of the Japanese Embassy in Buenos Aires. It is reported
that the purpose of this trip is to observe strategic areas, especially
oil bases, and the trip will last about two months. It is further reported
that Cruz is taking letters to Peru for the Japanese, which letters will
be hidden among his luggage. Reportedly the subject receives letters
at his address of Piedras 338, Buenos Aires, from his mother Luz Poblete
de Santa Cruz in Santiago, which letters are intended for the Japanese
in Buenos Aires.
This information has been made available to the American
Embassy in Buenos Aires, Argentina.
JUN 3 0 1943
FILED
cc - Director of Naval Intelligence
Navy Department, "ashington, D. C.
Confidential File
ACTIVITY
cc - Assistant Chief of Staff
G-2, War Department
Washington, D. C.
Attention: Colonel L. R. Forney
JUN-1 41943
PORDEFENSE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
BUY
UNITED
STATES
SAVINGS
BONDS

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.96)
CC-285
DIVIION OF
JUREHAONA4AND CONFIDENTIAL
United States Department of DueehnEfOF STATE
DOR
(SON) F
Mashington, D. C.
FICTHE ETROLE
ASSISTANT
Date:
JUN191943
To:
Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
BERLE
1943
From: J. Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Burbay of Investigation
Subject:
Compania Minero Petrolera Del Pacifico - Ecuador
894.20210/224
There is transmitted herewith a memorandum containing infor-
mation relative to the above-captioned company. This will supplement
previous information furnished to your office by this Bureau, and any
further pertinent information developed during the course of inquiries
which are still being conducted, will also be transmitted to you.
22
The information contained in this memorandum has been obtained
from a reliable and confidential source and has been made available to
the American Embassy at Quito, Ecuador, and Bogata, Colombia, and also
to the Office of Exports.
Enclosure
cc - Assistant Chief of Staff. G-2
FOREIGN FUNDS CONTROL DIVISION
PS/TL
0171943
AUG 6
cc - Director, Naval Intelligence
gmw
TILDEPARTMENT OF STATE
AUG 1 4 1943
oKH
UN191943
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FORYICTORY
BUY
UNITED
STATSS
BONDS

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.97)
N 183
COMPANIA HINARO ETROLERA DRL PACIVICO
The question of foreign hostile interests being comnected
with the Compenia Minero Fetrolere Del Pacifico has arisen based upon
reports that this com any has employed in the past Japanese technicians
and has been reputed to be partly fimmnced by Japenese capital. It
should be noted that the Commercial Division of the United States Em-
bassy et uito, Ecuador, has revoked permission for the sale of the
Compania Minero Petrolera Del Pacifico to the International Petroleum
Company. The Stendard O1l Compeny of California 1s now reliably re-
ported to be attemptine to purchase the conceesion, end before the ap-
proval of the transaction will be given by the Commercial Division,
the question of foreign interests in the Company is egmin being mede
the subject of investigation. This is to determine whether a Treasury
License 1s needed in comyliance with Executive Order No. 8389, which
provides for cases of traneactions in which foreign hostile funde are
involved.
In connection with the propesed sale to the Standard Cil
Company of California and related matters. the questioning of the of-
ficere of the Company, Luis Martines Delgado and Gustavo Dies. Delgado,
224
was effected. The officials steted that in l939 they raised the sum
of $80.000 (U.S.) in Colombia through 1nfluential friends in that country.
They stated that this amount of money was not sufficient to hire European
or American geologists and that sometime prior to Jume, l939, upon a
visit to Ecusdor of the Japanese Minister to Peru, he made a statoment
to the press that Japanese techniciens were ready and available for
work in Scuedor, thus influencing the officials of the Company to con-
tact the Japanese Minister with * view to obtaining techniciams for
explorstory work on the concession at a cheaper rate then white tech-
nicians would charge. According to Martinez Delgado, the Japanese
Minister was contacted in the bar of the Metropelitano Hetel, Quite,
Ecaador, and the preliminaries of the transaction agreed upem. Nartines
further stated that the matter was discussed with the Reuadoresn govern-
ment and approved. The topographers to be furnished by the Japanese
Miaister were to be paid at the rate of S150 per momth plus expenses
in the field, and the geologiete were to be paid $300 per month plus
expenses. These men were to have a three-year contrect, and there was
to be placed in Tokio, Japan, the sum of S75, 000 ae a guarantee for
Confidential F
the fulfillment of the contract. The Minister of Japem to Peru repre-
sented these techniciens, and while the contraots of empleyment were
made individually with the technicians, the Japmmese Government in effest
acted as their representative. According to Hartines Delgade, these
techaicians were obtained in Peru, and all arrangemente fer obtmiming
them were made in Limm by the Jananese Mimister.

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.96)
-2
Martinez Delgado stated thnt twelve technicians were contracted
for, but only eight were ultimntely furnished. The first two technieians
commenced their employment on the concession on September 1, 1939. such
etion bein reported to the cundopien overnment by letter. Theve
two techmiciens were r. anji qaddo ad . Taamure. It should be
noted in this resvect that one Mekamurs is re orted to have handled
the money for the Japanese intereata in  ogete, Colombia. Vchide and
Nakamura did not si the contract of employment and left such employ-
ment prior to the hiring of the remainder of the technicians. Japanese
techaiciane who signed employment contracte end the date of their sign-
ing, plus the capecity in which they were to be emmloyed, were as followe:
r. M. Sawatari, April 1. 1940 to nn. 6. 1941, Geolog1st
Dr. T. S1rasaka, April 1, 1941, died June 15, 1941, Geologist
)r. 2. Inou. April 1, 1940 to Dec. 8, 1941, Geologist
3. Hirasawa, April 1. 194l to Dec. 8, 194l, Geologist
H. Takahaski, Apr11 1, 1940 to Dec. 8, 194l, Topographer
M. Mukumoto, June 1. 1940 to Dec. 8. 194l, Topographer
. Makimhima.June 1. 1940 to Dec. 8. 1941, Goologist
B. Yanaguida, June 1. 1940 to Dec. 8. 1941, Topographer
There contracts were for a three-year duretion but were terminated by
mutual agre-ment in the form of a release contract on December 8, 1941.
à copy of this contract of release, signed by all the technicians whose
employment terminated December 8. 194l, is included in this memorandum.
Durins the progress of the work it became necessary for the
Company to use the S75, O0 deposit in Tokio, Japan to pay for the develop-
ment of the concession. Since thie was deposited as a guarantee, the
government of Japen as the representative of the technicians, demanded
additional guarantees. The officials of the Company considered giving
26 percent of their share in the Company to the Japanese government
as a guarantee, such guerentee to be in the form of a hypothecation.
Before this was accomplished, it was discovered to be contrary to the
laws of Ecuador, which provided that a foreign government should not
have an interest in an Ecuedorian corporation. Later it was orally
agreed between the parties that the Japanese government should have
the right to purchese 80 percent of the oil produced, such agreement
to be in lieu of the guarantee. This latter agreement was never exe-
cuted due to the fact that it was also contrery to Ecuadorian law.
On July S. l94l. the Ecuadorian government ordered the Japanese
technicians to leave the coastal aree due to rumors that they were in-
dulging in espionage activities in favor of Peru and also againet the
United States. The Japanese technicians remmined im Quite until December 8.
194l, when they were removed to Riobamba for confinememt.

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.98)
-3
The same relible source furnished information to the effect
thet Fortiner Delgado had been in contect with the Spanieh Legation
in reletion to the Company and to & sum of money on denosit in this
Legation. Nartinez Delgado is alleged to have stated that the sum of
10.000 sucres wes involved in this transection. He stated that on
July 1. 1941, the techniciens were advanced the sum of 14.800 sucres
for exploration ex enses, and he exhibited a receipt from the technicians
for this amount. After receipt of thi: sum, the technicians informed
the Commany that they had been the victims of an accident while navi-
gating the River Lagarto due to which the sum of 10.000 sucres was lost.
This incident provoked & bitter discuesion between the menegers of the
Company and the technicians, the techniciane teing held liable by the
managers for the amount lost. The techniciens finally recognized this
debt, end steps were being teken with the Japenese gov-rnment for the
approval of the debt. Rowever. such approval never was received until
the Spanish Legation early in 1943 summoned the directors of the Company
to the Legation for the purpose of receiving 10,000 sucres as payment
for the sum lost in the river. According to Martinez Delgado, he viewed
this offer with suspicion and refused it because it concealed an attempt
to reopen the claime between the technicians and the Company, which
were settled by the contract of release. Martinez further stated that
this contrrct settled all outstanding claims between the Company and
the technicians, including the Company's claim for the 10.000 sucres.
To accept the 10. 000 sucres would be tantamount to an admission that
the mitual claims had not been settled and would reopen the contract,
thus rendering the Company liable for a sum of one-half million sucres
for the belance of the terms of the technicians'contracts, which still
had a year and a half to run at the time the contract of release was
signed. Martinez stated that at the time the contract of release was
drewn up, great pressure was exercised upon the technicians to sign it
and that they were very loath to do so because they stated that Japan
was not at war with Ecuador and no reason existed for the termination
of the contract.
It should be noted that this contract of release is made
direct ly with the technicians and not with the Japanese government,
which formerly represented them. It will further be noted that no capital
rights are mentioned end the contract 1s in effect merely a release of
claime arising from the service contracts, and if there was any Japanese
capital in the Company, it is not ntioned and hence no obligation of
the Company. Also it should be noted that the contraet does not mentiom
the then outstanding claim for 10,000 sucres against the Japanese teshni-
cians. Martinez stated that this was not mentiomed because he was ez-
tremely anmious to cease the emplorment of the Japamese and that he
did not want to do anything that would hinder the signing of the comtract.
Martines stated that this sum was included in thesettlement with the
technicians and the Company's claim was waived and surrendered by this
contraot.

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.91)
-
oth )ieg Jelgado and Nertines Delgado deny that there 1s any
Japenene cn ital in the Company, n to prove such contention, they
made avallable all the recorde of the Company for inspection. These
records 1ndicte thet the Company was incorporeted on August 1. 1939.
and thet contect with the Japanese Minister wes made in June, 1939. The
capitalization o? the Comoany wae 150, ) sucres, the stock being issued
as follows:
ustavo Diez Jelgado
cundoreen
40 shares of 1000 S. each
rloserndo
ciadorenn
40
1000
Freo Antonio Adi
Colombian
50
11
16
200
14
18
nrique Mosquera wellis
Colombian
50
11
200
1
à
Luis Hartinez Delgado
Colombian
100
n
1i
500
1
The Company did not have a stock record book, but by checking
the stubbs of the share book, it was found to be correct except that
Dies Delgado had 50 shares insteed of 40 and Carlo" Mercado had 30 shares
instend of 40. Martinez steted thet this was merely an error in the
issuance of stock. It was also found thnt Auli transferred his interest
to Mertinez on February 20, 1941.
Ou July 1?, 1940, the Company's canital stock was incremsed
from 150.00 to 1.500,000 sucres. The new stock was subscribed as followst
Luis Mertinez Jelgado
50 sharee of 10,000 s. each
Gustavo Diez Delgado
35 shares of 10.000 3. each
The certificates of stock were 1eaued on July 1?, 1940, and the officials.
upon questioning. stated that the money to purchase the stock was loaned
to them by the following Colombiana: Enrique Mosquera Wallis. Abel
Cateedo, Marco Antonio Auli, Juijuel Arrpngo, Felix Castillo. Ernesto
Vargds, and a Dr. Megia. From the records of the Company it appears
that no evidence of indebtedness exists between these parties and Diez
Delgado or Martines Delgado, nor i- there anything in the papers of
the Company that would indicate that these men had contributed any capi-
tal to the enterprise. Martinex Delgado is reported to have informed
one of the representatives of the Standard Oil Company of California
that should the proposed purchase go through. he would present them
with receipts for the amounts advanced by these Colombians,
It has previously been reported that Felix Castillo Marino,
e lientenent in the Colombian Army Intelligence, was instrumental in
interestin: the Japanese in the concession. Castillo is also reported
by a relisble source to have had little or no money at the time that
he dealt with the Jepanese, but since such time, he has become affluent.
Felix Castillo, it should be noted, is one of the contributors to the
1ncrease in capital of the Company.

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.99)
-5
It should be noted that Jose Maria Ayora has been reported
to be the lawyer who drew up the corporation papers. and it is known
that Ayora also represents the International Petroleum Corporation.
According to a reliable source, Ayora possesses a good reputation. both
as to character and to legal ability. Long prior to the time that the
International Petroleum Commany became interested in the Company, that
firm made inquiry of Ayora concerning his knowledge of the Japanese int-
erests in the Company. Frank Dosteler of the International Petroleum
Company stated that such inquiry took place prior to Pearl Harbor, and
while Ayora had drawn up all the papers for the Company, he had stated
that he had no knowledge of any Japanese interest in the Company. Ayora
personally stated that he had drawn up all the papers for the Company.
and as far as he knew, there were no Japanese interests involved. How-
ever. it would be simple to conceal such interests, according to Ayore,
from the incorporating attorney so that he could not state that they
did not exist. Ayora stated that he had never come in contact with
any of the Japanese employess .of the Company.
It should further be noted that Frenk Dosteler, who is at
present office manager of the Internetional Petroleum Compeny, has
advised th  white topographers in his com any receive the sum of $200
per month, which would be $50 more monthly than the Japanese technicians
received. As to geologists, a junior grade geologist with little or
no experience, receives $275 per month, and depending on experience,
up to $500 per month, while the Japanese technicians in the same classi-
fication received only $300 per month. Therefore, it would seem evident
that in a contract of three years' duration, a considerable saving could
be effected by the employment of Japanese technicians.
Mr. Dosteler also stated that he had examined the amount of
money spent on the concessions of the Company and it would amount to
roughly l00,000. This corresponds roughly with the amount of capital
contributed to the corporation. It is, in fact, in excess of the amount
of the capital1zation; but from th1s $100.000. $20.000 should be taken,
since there were two coneessions in the area of the Company's concession
that /were known as the Grimaldo Concessions and were owned by Enrique
Gongalez Grimaldo. These concessions were transferred to the Company, each
for the sum of 140,000 sucres, on September 4. 1939. These sums were never
paid. though carried on the books of the Company as paid. Martinez
Delgado admitted that this was not paid, to the representatives of the
Standard Oil Company of California.

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.97)
8
ertiner Delgado attributes the repoyt that the Japaneme
have an interest in the Company to anuel Topres "eralte. Hartinez
Delgado, in explmining hi- relationshin with Torres Peralta. stated
that at the beginning of the year l939 he and Diez Delgado obtained
the origina! Eemeraldas concession. This is probably true. rather than
in 1940 as stated by Torres Peralta, since the Jepanese were alreedy
at work on the conces-1on in Saptember, 1939. Martinez states thet
shortly nfter he obtained the concession he met Torres Teralta in Bogata.
and nt that time Torres Perelta oc u ied the position of Seeretary of
the Department of Hines and Hiniater of Industry. Torres suegested
thet becouse of hie reletionehip with Sr. . A. Torres Pinzon. agent
for the Socony Cil Company in Colombia, he could interest that company
in the concession. In order to obtain an interest in the Company's
concesqion, Torres wes to reise the sum of 300, 000 sucres. Torres could
not interest Socony. nor could he raise the money which was to repre-
sent hie share. Martinez also claime that he found that Torres was
dealing behind their ncke with . laza of the Standard Oil Company
of California and with L. Restrepo, a Colombian oil man. Moreover,
when Torres came to uito he inourred debt- with the Socony Oil Company
which he did not pay. and it was discovered by Hartines that Torres
had no credit standing and could reise no money anywhere. Through these
misrepresentations the concession wae lost because no money was raised
to meet the 1aitial demands of the Ecundorean government. Martinez
said that hs ousted Torres from the deal and began again to secure the
conceseions, which were recovered on July 20, 1940, after the contracts
with the Japanese technicians had been made. Martines stated that after
the concession was re-obtained, Torres went to the Japanese Legetion
in Bogata and demanded a share in the Company which was refused. Torres
at the same time demmnded two percent of all the profits of the Company
from Martines, which wms likewiee refused, whereupon he went to the
American Legation and denounced the Company as being controlled by the
Japenese, and he has since made defamatory end slanderous statements
against the Company and ite officials.
In evalueting this statement of Martines against Torres, it
must be borne in mind that because of the close relationship to the
President of Koundor of Diez Delgado and Martines Delgado. it would
have been very easy for them to have the concession cancelled to freeze
out Torree and then re-obtain it. It also must be borne in mind that
after sixnine a contrect of male of the concessions to the International
Petroleum Company. these two officiale are dealing with another oil
company for the sale of the same concession while the President of
Ecundor is withholdins his coneent to the contrnct of malo to the Inter-
national Petroleum Company.

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.95)
-7
It is intere-tinr to note that Torree Perelte =tated that
the payment of Jm anese ca 1tal was made 1n May or June of 1940 and
that the incresse in ca italigntion of the Company by one million sucres
came on July 1?. 1940. For this reeson eeneciel importance is placed
on the determination of whether wealthy Colombiens furnished this capital
ernot.
It hes been determined thot Jorge Arcos ls an employe of the
Benco de Credito of uito. Arcoe he nn offictal connoction with the
Company. However, he hes prepared a financial etetement for the Company
and ie in touch with it. No informotion ns to his having sympethies
hostile to the United Nations hes been obtained nor of his having been
engaged in subversive activities.

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.96)
-8
The following is A translation of a document which Gustavo
ies Delgado stated is the contract of release from mutual claime of
the Compania Minero Petrolera Del ncifico and the Japanese geologists
who were prospectin for oil for thie compeny on the coast of Esmereldes.
he undersigned. Jurtavo iez Delgado, in his capacity
as manager of the Compania Minero Petrolera Del Pecifico, on the
one hand, and the Srs. Shigetane Hirasaw, Ziuity Inoue, Hiroji
Takaheski. Masao Makishima, Makoto Mukumoto and Bunjy Yanaguida.
on the other hand. have agrreed by mutuel and spontaneous agreement
in committing to binding form. in nccordance with the respective
legal formalities, of the aforestated snd the agreements and
resolutions following:
FIRST:
The undersigned already mentioned did enter into with the
Compania Minero Petrolero Del Pacifico, Inc. individual contracts
by which each contracted with it in the capacities and for the terms
set out as follows:
Shigetane Hirasawe, in the capacity of a geologist, for
three years
luity Inoue, in the capacity of  genlogist, for three
years
Hiroji Takahaski. in the capmcity of topogranher, for
three yeare
Hasao Makishimm. in the cmpncity of a geologiet, for
three years
Maketo Fukwmoto, in the capacity of a topogre her, for
three years
bunjy Tanauide, in the capacity of a topogrmuher. for
three yeare
D: In fulfillment of these contracte, the undersigned worked
until the Sth of July of the present year in the petroleum concession
that the aforesaid company holds in the Province of Esmereldas.
THIRD:
:In the time indicated in the previoue cleuse, we, the
undereigned, had to come to luito by axpress orders given to the
Manager by the President of the Republic, after the repeated efforts
that the Sr. Dies Delgado made to the Government to revoke these
orders.
uT: Since our ectual return to Quito, the Srs. Dr. Luie Martines
Delgado, President, snd Sr. Gustavo Dies Delgado, Mamager of the
Companin Mimere-Petrolera Del Pacifice, heve been displaying the
greatest interest and making all the maneuvers possible to obtain
from the Sr. President of the Republic permiesion thet the undersigned
might return to continue their labors in the Provimee of Esmeraldas,
the said gentlemen having even made e trip to Remeraldas to follow
out this purpose.

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.95)
-9-
FLITH:
When it appeared, that at least in part, the afore-mentioned
difficulties were sbout to be solved, through the permission of the
Government that the undereigned might be able to go to work in the
region of Santo Domingo de los Coloredos, the war between the Japanese
hmpire and the United States of America he pened to break out. an
event which has made impossible the completion of the above-mentioned
contracts, without any blame or responsibility on the part of the
Companie Minero Petrolere Del Pacifico whose efforts for the con-
tinuation of the terms and the fulfillment of the contracts the
undersigned recognize.
SIXTH:
In consequence of the aforesaid, the undersigned, Gustavo
Dies Delgede. as mmnager of the Companin Minero Petrolera Del Pacifico.
on the one hand. and Shigetane Hirasawe, Ziuity Inoue, Hirodi Takahaski.
"asao Maxishimm. Makoto Fukumoto and Bunjy Yanaguida, on the other
bo-a. declere freely and spontaneously that by mutual agreoment
we hold es definitely decided, terminated, as of no value or legal
effect, the contracts mentioned in the first clause, without any
obligation.cherge or reeponsibility for any of the contracting parties.
SEVENTH: The understened Japanese tochnicians declare thet all
our credit= have been completely cancelled, and we do not demand any
indemnity, recoguizing that the Compania Minero Fetrolera Del Pacifico,
S.A. hes complied faithfully end exactly with each and every one
of the clauses of the contracte that mutually bind us.
For legal effect we each s1en 1n Quito, Dec. 16th, 194?
For the Cia Minero Petrolera Del Pacifico, S.A.
(S1gned)
Gustavo Diez Delgado. Mer.
siened
Shigetane Hirasawe
Ziuty Inoue
Airoj1 Takahaeki
Maseo Makiehime
Makoto Fukumoto
Bunjy Yenaguida

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.95)
THE OPPICE
HOATE WHETHER
TELEGRAM SENT
etter
fht letter
Department of State
Depertment:
Full rate
Day letter
Washington.
Night letter
DISTRIBOTION
Charge to
AIRGRAM
s
A-1215
AMEMBASSY,
BUENOS AIRES.
for the Q
whioh must not be compromised that correspondents of the
894.20210/224A
Spanish newspapers EY Alcazar, A.B.C. and Informagión may
leave Spain for Buenos Aires in the latter part of July,
to undertake reporting ostensibly for thoir newspapers at
Buenos Aires, Rio de Janeiro and Santiago. The Department
a
understands that the actual work of these "correspondents"
will be to send in, presumably through the newspaper offiod
in question, special dispatohes and seoret communications
on intelligence matters of interest to the Japanese Govern-
PS/AEB
ment. They will also send to the headquarters of the
"Hispanidad" in Madrid important newspapers and magazines
for forwarding to Japanese authorities.
While you should not (repeat not) take any overt
Confidential Fi
aotion in the matter whioh might give rise to suspioion
that this information had reached this government yeu are
requested to watoh for the arrival of these correspendents,
to
Enciphered by
Sont by operator
M..

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.94)
TO  TRANMIT
THER
TELEGRAM SENT
SRChET
CONFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTED
Department of State
CLEAR
ment:
PARTAIR
ate
ay letter
Washington.
Night letter
Charge to
-2-
$
to keep a disoreet surveillance over their activities
only
and to report promptly to the Department by sooret airgram
Gorrelatton any developments whioh may be of interest.
Hull
A-B
7-175
Sent by apore

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.95)
OFFICE
TO BE TRARSMIYTED
TE WHETHER
TELEGRAM SENT
CONFIDENTIAL
letter
RESTRICTED
rtment:
Department of State
CLEAR
PARTAIR
rate
letter
Night letter
Washingion, NOT FOR
marge to
DISTRIBUTION
AIRGRAM /OOS
A - 8:00
Date
secneto bny
JUL 2 0 1943
AMEMBASSY,
894.20210/224B
SANTIAGO.
The Department has learned from a very reliable souroe
4 Counselon
whioh must not be compromised that correspondent of the
Spanish newspapers El Alcazar, A. B. C. and Información may
leave Spain for Buenos Aires in the latter part of July, to
undertake reporting ostensibly for their newspapers at
Buenos Aires, Rio de Janeiro and Santiago. The Department
understands that the aotual work of these "oorrespondents"
will be to send in, presumably through the newapaper offioes
P
in question, special dispatches and seoret communications
S
/AEB
on intelligence matters of interest to the Japanese Govern-
nw2
ment. They will also send to the headquarters of the
"Hispanidad" in Madrid important newspapers and magazines
Confidential Ple
for forwarding to Japanese authorities.
852.
While you should not (repeat not) take any overt
aotion in the matter which might give rise to suspicion
that this information had reaohed this government you are
requested to watoh for the arrival of these correspomdents,
to
Enciphered by
Sant by operader.
M.,
19

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.90)
TO E TRANSMITTED
TELEGRAM SENT
SOCN
CONFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTED
Bepariment of State
CLEAR
PARTAIR
Washington.
etter
to
-2-
to keep a disoreet surveillance over their activities
and to report promptly to the Department by secret
airgram sed to the Chief ef the Division of Foreien
14
Aotivity Correlation any developments which may be of
interest.
frull
ann
A-B
8
a.4
BC:SC:ES
3-17-43
Enciphared by
Sent by operater
M..
19

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.97)
PREPARING OFFICE
ALL INDICATE WHETHER
TELEGRAM SENT
rull rate
CONPIDENTIAL
Day letter
RESTRICTED
(Night letter
CLEAR
Charge Department:
Department of State
PARTAIR
Full rate
Day letter
NOT FOR
Washington.
Night letter
DISTRIBUTION
Charge to
AIRGRAM
A-1872
JUI 2019
Date 8:00
AMEMBASSY,
686
RIO DE JANEIRO.
Frnit hnt cndoy
The Department has learned from a very reliable souroe
.20210/22
whioh must not be compromised that correspondents of the
Spanish newspapers, El Alcazar, A.B.C. and Informaoión,
may leave Spain for Buenos Aires in the latter part of July,
224C
to undertake reporting ostensibly for their newspapers at
Buenos Aires, Rio de Janeiro and Santiago. The Department
understands that the actual work of these "oorrespondonts"
PS/T
will be to send in, presumably through the nowspaper ofrices
in question, special dispatches and seeret oommunications
on intelligence mattors of interest to the Japanese Govern-
ment. They will also send to the headquarters of the
"Hispanidad" in Madrid important newspapers and magazines
91230
852.
for forwarding to Japanese authorities.
While you should not (repeat not) take any overt
action in the matter whioh might give rise to suspioion
that this information had reached this governmert you are
requested to watch for the arrival of these eorrespondents,
to
Enciphered by.
M...

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.94)
PREPARINO OFFICE
TO BE TRANSMITTIED
WILL INDIGATE WHETHER
TELEGRAM SENT
SECRIT
Full rate
CONFIDENTIAL
Collect {Day letter
RESTRICTED
(Night letter
Department of State
CLEAR
Charge Department:
PARTAIR
Full rate
Day letter
Washingion.
Night letter
Charge to
-2-
$
to keep a discreet surveillance over their activities
ones
au0
and to report promptly to the Department by secret airgram
Cerrelatien any developments which may be of interest.
Aull
aas
A-B
to:SC:ES
yay
7-17-43
Enciphered by
Sand by operater
M.n
19.
108000-1

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.98)
COHNSDGAR HOOVER
DIRECTOR
CC-285
Federal Bureau of Inuestigation
π
Anited States Department of Justice
Mashington, D. C.
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
AUG 1619-3
Date:
To:
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
71943
J. Edgar Hoover Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
DEPARTMENT
Subject:
Lysette Telles
Japsa Case
As of possible interest to you, it has been ascertained that the
above-mentioned person, formerly an employee of the Japanese Embassy in
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, and daughter of Dr. Alberto Gois Telles, a prin-
cipal subject in the Japsa Case, a memorandum of which has been preriously
894.20210/225
furnished to you, is presently employed by the Rubber Development Corpor-
ation in Rio de Janeiro in a non-confidential capacity.
It will be remembered that Alberto Telles of Rua Toneleiros 167,
proprietor of a jewelry and curio shop at Avenida Rio Branco 143, both
894.2021
addresses Rio de Janeiro, was the recipient of a communication from Baenos
Aires, Argentina, dated September 28, 1942, from Francisco Ortis, Tucuman
l687. In thie communication was an enclosure which was to be forwarded by
Telles to Ryokichi Nagat, a Japanese who is believed to be engaged in es-
pionage activities in Rio de Janeiro. A Laboratory examination of the
letters addressed to Telles rerlects that the typewriter used to pre
them was also used to prepare letters of an espionage natare written 
Santiago, Chile, from S. Miura, presently in charge of the office or the
South American Cotton Company at Buenos Aires.
au/222
SEP
It has been ascertained from a reliable, confidential source
FILED
that Tokyo, Japan, has requested one "Miuri" of Buenos Aires to telegraph?
his opinion as to the anti-aircraft defense system presently being used 
on the east coast of the United States. He was also requested to furnisho
data on the American air forces in Chine, including their formation nd 3
strength, supply routes, and the quantity of planes in terms of percentage
Confidential File
of whole mumbers being sent to world fronts.
It has lately been established that Alberto Telles is Handling
the affairs of Sociedade Commercial, Nipo-Brasileira, am affiliate er
PS/HSPSA
representative of the Mitsui interests. In addition thereto, it is
FORYICTORY
believed thet Telles is eagaged in gathering espiomage information fer
BUY
the Japanese.
This information has been made available to the American Embessy
at Rio de Janeiro, Brasil.

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.94)
OOVER
CC-285s
OCK
United States Departntent gfJustice
SEF 1 3 1943
Date:
AUG 28
RECEIVED
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
CL
DIVISION OF
SEP6-1943
LIAI Honorable Adolt A. BeplesoNra
EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
SECRETARY
SEP1519430
RP
1S.SISTANT
INFORMATION
894.20210/226
00T6
MR.
au Of Investigation
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Division of
Subject:
Japanese Espionage
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
mmo
1943
As of possible interest d yol,1gito has been aseertaipsstate
that the Japanese Intelligence Seryige has instructed its aghh
throughout South America t
Toarding to Japan, copies
ing td the fields of
A list of these United States publications is herewith attached.
in Latin America.
DIV. OF
PORYICTORY
AUG 31 1943
BUY
Enclosure
loy.
UNITED
STATES
WAR
BONDS
AND
War Department, Washington, D. C.
STAMPS
Navy Department
Attention: Colonel L. R. Forney
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.99)
MEMORANDUM
RE: LIST OF UNITED STATES PUBLICATIONS, COPIES OF
WHICH JAPANESE INTELLICENCE SERVICE HAS REQUESTED
ITS AGENTS TO FCRWARD TO JAPAN
Natural Science
Natural Science in General
American Journal of Science
Science
Mathematics
American Mathematical Monthly
Physics
Journal of the Optical Society of America
Physical Review
Chemistry
Chemical Abstracts
Chemical Reviews
Journal of the American Chemical society
Journal of Physical Chemistry
Medical Science
Journal of the American Medical Association
Journal of Experimental Medicine
Quarterly Cumulative Index Medicus
American Journal of Public Health and the Nation's Health
The American Review of Tuberculosis
Journal of Aviation Medicine
Productive Arts
SPECIAL
SKL
DIVISION
Agriculture and Forestry
SEP 1S1943
Journal of Agricultural Research
Journal of the American Society of Agronomy
Social Science
DEPARTMENI OF SIATE
Chemical Technology and Manufacture
OCT 15 1943
Chemical and Metallurgical Engineering
Industrial and Engineering Chemistry
FILED
Fertilizer
American Fertilizer

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
Fuels
Oil and Gas Journal
Ceramics
Journal of the American Ceramic Society
Engineering
Engineering in General
Engineering Index
Industrial Research Laboratories of U.S.
Bulletin of the Bureau of Standards. Supplements 74, 75
Civil Engineering
Civil Engineering
Concrete
Proceedings of the American Society of Civil Engineers
Transactions of the American Society of Civil Engineers
Mechanical Engineering
American Machinist
Mechanical Engineering
Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical
Engineers
Welding Journal
Electrical Engineering
Electrical Engineering
General Electric Review
Electrons
Transactions of the American Institute of Electrical
Engineers
Bell System Technical Journal
Proceedings of the Institute of Radio Engineers
R. C. A. Review
Mining and Metallurgy
Blast Furnace and Steel Plant
Engineering and Mining Journal
Heat Treating and Forging
Iron Age
Metal Finishing
Metal Progress
Mining and Metallurgy
Military and Naval Science
Proceedings of the U. S. Naval Institute

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
Naval Engineering and Navigation
Journal of the American Society of Naval Engineers
Marine Engineering and Shipping Review
Autdmobiles and Cycles
American Automotile
Automotive Industries
S.A.E. Journal of Aeronautics
Aero Digest
Aviation
Journal of Aeronautical Sciences
N.A.C.A. Technical Note
N.A.C.A. Technical Memo
M.I.T. Report
C.I.T. Report
Patent
The Official Gazette of the U.S. Patent Office
(June 24, 1943, Vo1. 527, No. 4--)
Patent Specification (2245551--)
Patent Specification (Reissues)(No. 21826--)
Patent Specification (Plant Patent)(No. 475--)
Index of Patents (1941)
Index of Trade Marks (1941)
Engineering
Engineering in General
Bock of A.S.T.M. Standards (American Society for Testing
Materials)
Industrial Standardization and Commercial Standards
Monthly
Miscellaneous
Physical Review (American Physical Society)(Issues subsequent
to October, 1941)
Electronics (subsequent to 1942)
Bell System Technical Journal (same)
The Journal of Aeronautical Science (same)
The Journal of the American Chemical Society (same)
Science
Most recent catalogue of the DuPont Company
Special details, literature and catalogues in regard to
equipment using Pfaudlar (glass-lined hardware)(Standard
Pfaudlar, highly acid-resisting glass-lined chemical equip-
ment)
Other British and American Materials on Electronic Physics

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.96)
EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
OFFICE FOR EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
JDH-FC
COORDINATOR OF INTER-AMERICAN AFFAIRS
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT BUILDING
WASHINGTON, D. C.
FOREIGN
OF
244943
DEPARTME
OF
STATE
July 20, 1943
MEMORANDUM
H
TO:
Mr. John Draier
State Department
894.20210/227
As requested by telephone,
we are sending you herewith six additional
copies of Mr. Naft's report "Japan's Menace
to the Americas."
Russell Pierce
OCT 181943
FILED
Russell Pierce
Assistant Director
PS/JK
Radio Division
Enclosures (6)
Éon e

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.95)
Division of
FAR LASTEDU AFFAIRS
RESTRICTED
11942
July 21, 1943
7.W894
RABIO REPORT ONTHE
FAREAST
Number 25
FOREIGN BROADCAST INTELLIGHNCE S RVICE
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
JAPANESE RELIGIOUS POLICY IN ASIA.
JAPAN
41
FREE CHINA
OCCUPID CHINA
MANCHURIA.
THE NETHERL NDS EAST INDIES
TH: PHILIPPINE ISLANDS
MALAYA.
INDIA
FAR EAST FRONTS
THAILAND
AUSTRLL

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.99)
This is one of a series of reports on the Far East prepared for
the use of government Far East specialists by the Analysis Division
of the Foreign Broadcast Intelligence Service. Each report deals
more or less intensively with certain regions in the Far East, but
not all reports cover all regions. Briefer treatment of these and
other areas can be found in the regular Weekly Review issued by the
F.B.I.S. Communications should be addressed to the Chief Analyst,
1424 K Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. (Executive 3620, Extension
330.)
Readers will unäerstand that the material presented here is
necessarily fragmentary, and frequently monitored under unfavorable
reception conditions, so that accuracy with regard to places, names
and figures cannot always be guaranteed. The Japanese radios do not
broadcest regular, progressive reports on specific developments in
the Far East; rather they carry certain news items when those will
serve some useful propaganda purpose. It should also be borne in
mind that the material from Japanese and Japanese-controlled stations
is frequently mothing more than propaganda. Experts in the field
will be able to determino the accuracy or inaccuracy of Japanese
statements, in most cases, and will be able to supplement their own
sources of information with useful items of this report.

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.97)
- A1 -
JAPAN
JAPAN INTRODUCTION
Biggest event of the fortnight. on the home front in Japan was the
forth Central Cooperativ, Council mecting. All the mein speeches by
Promier Tojo, Eiji Amou, Goneral Vahagi. Commander Sashiro, Teiichi Suzuki,
stressed the critical war poriod which Japan fecas his yeer and next.
ojo's tour of th- Souther Regions was complet d, and some fan-fere con-
corning Japan's political successes in Asia followed his roturn.
POLITICAL DVELOPMENTS
CEITRAL COOPERATIVE COUNCIL MEETING
The fourth general conference of the Central Cooperative Council
of the Imperial Rule Assistance Association (Taisei Yokusankai) was held
at the Dniton Kniken (Greater Irst Asie hall) at Morunouchi in Tokye for
three deys. July 14 to 17. Tokyo nglish Domei (July 13) definos the
Centrol Cooperntiv Council s the "Nation:l Neighborhood Associrtion
nttrched to the Imperirl Rule assistance Associ-tion. In other words
the Cooperativ Council is the consultation body. of the whole nation,
with attendence of ropr sentntives from nll welks of life. This idee
was born out of th ago-long trrdition of our couniry nd is a develop-
m nt of the system of Gonin Gumi (nssocirtion of 5 men)."
Domei describes it es's "fnmily council" designed to foster national
organization of the peopl. and the Yokuson. Imperial Rule Assistence,
mov ment. Th. Council has no Constitutionnl rights. Helf the members
are directly npuointed nch yeer by the president of the IRaa (who.
happens to be Premier Tojo) the othor half pre appointed by the president
from among nrmes nominot d for membership by honds of prefecturel and
municipel brench's of the IRAa.
The Council mects twice a year, This is the fourth regular session.
and there heve been two extrnordin ry oncs. In addition to those regular
conferenccs.there ere irreguler depertmentel conferences.
Japenese home service brondensts (July l2) refer to the Conf rence.
as being the "goneral ss mbly of the 100, 000, 000 poop1r of the netion."
Procoedingel The first day of the conforence lasted for leven
continuous hours. Speeches wore given by Promier Tojo nnd 36 pre-chosen
mombers of tho council. Chrirmon Admiral Seizo Kobeyashi appointed
chairmen and mombers of th four committees which mot on the sccond
dry. Mnjor probloms token up wre (1) promotion of nationel morale;
(2) inercese of production end strongthening of the national fighting
pow r; (3) scourity of tho food situntion within Japen; (4) socurity of
wartime notionel life.
More thon a O proposnls for boosting the nation's wer offort were
delibernted in thn first two days of the conforenoo (Inglish to Australie,
July 16).

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.97)
-A3 -
Tojo was one of noarly l00 governmont officinls who participated
in tho conferencc. "Observers, ""says Tokyo English Donci July 16
"noted the perticularly straight and unequivocal responses and explana-
tions given by govornnent representetives on various questions posed
by the council members. Observers saw in this cameraderie but a sincere
and serious exchange of opinions between the governnent and the people's
ropr sentetivos as on of the most important factors in the inflexible
unity of Japan today." nother Domei dispatch on July 17 revealed that
"all those who were given a chance to speak" (the right to speak on the
floor wes apperently arbitrarily decided by the chairman on the basis
of inportance) "offered portinent suggestions to the officials out of
their own daily experience."
SPIDCHIS GIV N BUFORI H CONFIRINCD
Premier Tojo. President of the IRaA: The Premier reviewed the
"glorious achievements" of the armed forces, Japan's political success
in tho Co-prosperity sphore, and prid a comprimont to Germany and Italy.
These subjects are of cours routine in all Tojo speeches. While he
reitorated the conviction that "victory in this war is sure." he elso
warned that "th, attainnent of this victory most certainly is not going
to be casy." He stated that the war situation was "gaining in gravity
with ov ry moment, and we are in truth confronted with a grave period
which will decide victory or defeat. Our enemies Anerica and Britain
have cone forward with counter-offensive attempts, relying only on
their meterial strength, but the enemy attempts must not be considered
too lightly. Such an attenpted offensive by the eneny...has long been
anticipated by Japan and ie not to be feared.... The one hundred million
peopl must not bi disturbed by eny hardships such as tho incrcased
shortage of materials or the growing number of inconvoniences.... This
is tho r sponsibility and duty of us who have been  llowed to live in
the glorious Showa era in which occurs the war which will decide the
fato of the Ga sphere for tho next 1. Ooo years. very person, if
he be a member of Imporial Japen, r gardless of whether he be man or
wonen, must do the work of five or ten individuals, united in the
spirit of our officers and men and oxerting a burning loyelty end
sinocrity...". (Toxt availeble.)
Eiii Amau. Prosident of the Board of Information: Anau's speech
. was concorned with the war guilt of america end Britain. the opposing
war ains of Japan and tho oneny. He said, "This is truly a war un-
precedent d in the world; in which Japan will eat or be eaton, whether
Asia will or will not be liberated, and whether a now world of justice
and righteousness will or will not be establishod."
:Amau, lik, Tojo, stressed tho growing strength of the United States
and Britain. They "are planning to recapture our various baset in the
occupicd aroas and to sink our vesscls with subm-rines and planos. They
pre trying to obstruct tho construction of the Gri Co-prosperity sphere
end at th- sane time to cut the connunicetion lines between Japan and
the Co-prospority sphere and wear down Japan' fighting strongth., they
are trying to crush th fighting will of our people by attenpting air

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.97)
-43-
reids on tho Japan mainland." He foresaw attempts to attack Japan
fron the aloutians and from the south Pacific islands. He predicted
countor-attacks in Burna after thd rainy scason, and airraids on
Japon fron bases in China.
a roviows th vidonce of int rnel disruption and dissension
in m rica, but to mak sure thet this news would not result in over-
confidence, he insisted that th, eneny's fighting spirit "has not
wenkoned end th ir driving forces depending on thoir trenendous productive
pow r must not bo underestinated.... If we should be caught off-guard
v n for a monent we shall suffor serious (regret).... Victory will be
Cifficult to attain unless we are constantly on guard, naintain the
so fighting spirit, opposo th, onomy's power of rosistanco end crush
the onemy."
Annu urg d that tho. people n ither becono intoxicated with initial
victorios nor. on the other hand. be disnppointed in setbacks.
"is the wer progresses and as the country faces acute conditions,
wartine diplonecy changes...and the schening propaganda of the eneny
will becono increasingly active, but w people must not be influenced
by it and whether tho notionel norale will or will not be shaken is
the key that will decide the war. This wer cannot be won if the
poople's morale should collapse..." (Text evailablo.)
Enjor Gencral Nakeo Yahagi: Yahegi's speech was also characterized
by predictions of gray events to cone. In a report on the "latest
situntion on th, arny war fronts."he stated thrt as Nippon was deternined
to strengthon its strategic and politicel positions in Asia.the Unit d
Stat's would try to launch a. big countor-offonsiv, ngeinst Nippon "with-
in this year or noxt." He seid that since it would be impracticable
to launch attacks on Japan fron the Pacific Islands or the Aleutiens,
or to bring aircraft carriers close to Japan proper, the eneny would
try to sain bases on tho continent, Ho also foresaw attenpts to recover
Burna eftor tho reiny season,
As for the "urope-first" policy of the United Nations, Yahegi
advised that it not be taken too seriously as the United States,
coveting ustralia and India and wanting to deal Japan a knock-out
blow, wes lukewar: on thet strategy. "The present counter-offensives
in th: South Pacific nay be considered not a local counter-attack
arising fron a monentary whim, but the materielization of a broad
counter-offenstve stretegy enbodyim close coordination and planning
following a general survey of the whole war theater." (English Donei
to ast sia, July 16).
The Japanese hone s rvice r port of Yahagi's speech also inoluded the
ron rks that the Pecific battlcs will becono "nore acute and will in-
crease in ferocity, and the decisive stage is steadily approaching.
In view of the general situntion of the wer, a drastic inoreese in fight-
ing power of our airforce and the perfection of our air-raid defense
facilities are nost importont." (Text available)

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.97)
一A4-
Connander Itaru Tashiro of the Navy Press Section: Conmander
Teshiro followod Major-Goneral Yahagi, naking a report on the battles
centerod eround New Georgie Island. He said thet the eneny had changed
its tactics in the landing operations at Rendova, and gave as proof
of th: fiercenoss of Japanese resistance the fact that Japen lost 30
plenes, th, largest nuibor since the first Solomon Islands naval battle.
1 large port of his spench was spent in recounting exploits of personal
bravery on the part of Japanese pirforco squadrons, and of pilots of
Japanes inferior in spced and maneuverability to the merican P-38's
opposing then.
Pr sident Suzuki of the Cabinet Planning Board: Suzuki's speech,
agrin, contained many grav pronouncenents on tho critical war situption
with which Japan is now feced. In an attempt to whip up a greater
popul'r cet rnination and sacrifice he said thet "judging fron the
trond of the world situation and fron the fierce battle going on in the
Pacific front, tho grevity of the situation is beyond expression of
words.... as seen fron the part pleyed by nircraft we can easily under-
stand the inportance of iner asing fighting strength. The incroase of
pircraft is an absolute necessity," (Goneral Yahagi had stated in his
specch that the life of an airplane is only three nonths, so ther was
constant need for replacenent in order only to meintain existing strength).
Suzuki urg d thet the people be fully cognizant of the fact that the
industrial roadjustnent progran "cannot be carried out unless the
total effort of the nation is achieved. It is truly a natter of being
crushed by the eneny or crushing the oneny." He stated that the
voluntary progran of industrial reorganization had slowed down since
the latter part of last year. (Text available)
Reilways Minister Yoshiaki Hatta: Hatta reported on wartine neasure
being ta-en for strengthening the nation's transportation capacity. As
reported by nglish Domei July 16, Hatta said that "the trensportation
of such inportant naterials as coal, iron and steel is being handled
es ruch as possible by ovorland facilities, thus allocating bottons
hitherto engaged in coastwise shipping to the transport of vital materials
to Jepen fron the continent and the south." In order to neet the in-
creesing volune of treffic between Japan and tho continent, ferryboat
scrvice was opened July15 between Hakata and Fusan. supplenenting
the Shinonoscki-Fusan ferryboet service. Between the Japanese mainland
and Hokkeido, the Railways Hinistry is increasing the number of ferry-
boats in operation, and contampleting opening new ferry services.
Hatta surmed up by saying that "drastic neasures" would be'necessery
to nhance wartine trensport capacity.
Other Speakers: (Jepenese hone service July 15) These included
Diet nenbor Matsunhga Ode. who stated thet the "central treining educa-
tion under a decisive wartine should be suspended, end the onthusiasn
of patriotic service of students should bn concentrated toward the in-
crense of fighting strength;"
Tadao Obata. President of tho Boerd of Directors of the Industrial
Petriotic Service association, who urged that industrial lebor 'reserves

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.99)
-A5-
Yasaburo (Sugimate). who said a Science and Technology Patriotic
Service Corps should be formed for increasing fighting strength.
Victory Pledge: Final action taken by the Fourth Central Coopera-
tive Council meeting. was a victory pledge to be "at all times on the
tips of the tongues of the one hundred million people," It reads as
follows (home service. July 17):
"We, the subjects. will sacrifice all for His Imperial Majesty.
"We, the subjects, will guard and fight for our nation to the very end.
"We, the subjects, will work to the limit of our strength.
"We, the subjects, will fight through (word) with justice,
"We, the subjects, will fight to the final victory of this great
sacred war."
POLITIC.L ACTIVITINS OF PAST FORTFIGHT
Meetings Held: The first meeting of the new members of the Informe-
tion Board was held July 7 at the premier's official residence. The
officials present exchanged views on administration and propagenda plans
(home service July 7).
The Diet Procedure Investigation Committee of the House of Repre-
sentatives held a meeting at which Okad. Speaker of the Hous, Uchigasaki.
vice-speaker and about 30 committee members attended (home service,
July 13). 10 members of a subcommittee were eppointed by the Speekor,
charged with the "task of research and of making decisions of concrete
policies." It was considered that study of wartime procedural policies
of the Diet would also affect the House of Peers and the IRuPS "con-
siderably."
The first reguler semi-weely Cabinet meeting since Tojo's return
from his southern tour was held (homa service end English Domei, July
13). The meeting approved a list of itemizcd instructions to be given
the chairmen of the newly-created nine regional administrative councils.
"Salient points" are: (1) monthly conferences in Tokyo, at which the
Premier and Cabinet members will be present elong with the special ad-
ministrators; (2) reeching self-sufficiency in food within the Jepenese
Empire before the end of 1944. The instructions cover "increased food
production, improved maritime and overlend trensportation and efficient
supply of materials to the five key defense industries as well as other
industries on the priority list, and smoother distribution of commodities
as well as wartime labor."
A conference for the training of phyeicel strength was opened at
the Welfare Ministry (home service, July 5). Vice Minister Takei.
Director of the Training Depertment Kobayashi, effiliates end directors
of training sections from districts, prefectures and munioipel pre-
fectures numbering about 200 attended. They discussod measures to
cope with physical training of the people, "guidanco of civilian thoughts."
promotion of infant strength, protection of wartime babies and mothers.

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.98)
- A6 -
The Nagove city council called a city council meeting (home
service, July 5) to elected Surgeon-General Tokichi Saita, president
of the Tottori Prefecture Motive Power Conpany, as mayor of Nagoye.
City meyors were also eppointcd for Hiroshima, (Hikari), end
Matsudo (home service, July l0). ppointed by the home affairs ministry
were Hajime Nishimura. formor (secretary-general), mayor of (Kikeri)
in Yamaguchi prefecture; Senkichi Awaya. former governor of Oita pre-
fecture, mayor of the city of Hiroshima; and (Yoshiro) Abe. former
(secretary-general) of Matsudo, mayor of the city of Matsudo in Chiba
prefcture.
A meeting was hold by the IR Ps Diet Representatives' Socicty of
th Headquarters, attended by approximately 2 0 officials and members
including Gov rnor be, Pr sident Mayeda of the Board of Directors,
State Minister Oase, Speaker Okade of the House of Representatives and
President (Kuniyuki) of the Political Affairs Investigation Committee
(homo service, July 12). A "battlefield spirit movenent" will go into
effect for the 100, 000, 000 poople in thc latter pert of July, by mobilize-
tion of the entire Hous, of Peers and House of Represontatives.
Meetings to Come:
Dai Nippon Imperial Rule Assistance Youth Corps Reorgenization:
This group has been reorganized in accordhnce with the District Bloc
ndministrntive reorganization of the government. Recent steps have
been tokon to facilitato smooth operntion of the orgnizntion by unifying
the central headquarters with the locel districts through the establish-
ment of brench councils (home sorvice, July 12). A "lenders conference"
of th IRa youth associntion will br held from lnte July through errly
September, separately under ench district administretion through the
netion.
The Home Affairs Ministry will hold an extraordinnry conference of
pref ctural police chiefs for two days on July 26 end 27, end en xtra-
ordinary conference of economic departnent chiofs for two days on July
27 and 28. Th, police chiefs will coneider "important affrirs portein-
ing to the maintonance of peace end order-during wertine." The conomic
conference will "exchenge views," and talk on enforconent of the
industrial reorgenization plan. It will also consult with the various
ministries on foodstuff increase.
The Foodstuffs Situation Invcstigation Cornittec. a sub-committcc
of the Investigotion Committee of the House of Peers hns hold ight
meetings since May 18 (home service, July 5). A new sub-committce is
bring cstablish d to summerize tho results to date. "Without confining
invostig tions to thoso of the foodstuffs situation in Japen proper and
in outside possessione only, the committeo will also cerry on invostiga-
tions as far as circumstences permit of the foodstuffs situntion in
Manchukuo which hes indivisible co-existonce and co-prospority rolrtions
with Japan."

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.98)
-47 -
On July 19 the government was scheduled to convoke an extraordinary
gubernetorial conference and will "strive to inspire it with the con-
sistent determination of the centrrl government" (home service, July
13)。
Home Front Control: In the Cabinet meeting of June 1 the govern-
ment decided to abolish or suspend public functions which have "no
direct connection with increasing fighting strength" (home service.
July 5). Hoshino. chief secretary of the Cabinet, proposed e simplifi-
cation of functions whereby decisions will be mae on methods for hold-
ing functions sponsored hereafter by any Ministry or non-government
organization only after consultation and approval by the Board of In-
formation. All the vice-ministers greed. Presumably there have been
so mony meetings and public gatherings on this and that that the
public's energies have beem to some extent diverted from activities
directly contributing to the war. The F.B.I.S. Japanese-language
staff sees in the restrictions a determination to narrow down such
activities, partly perhaps to free the public transportation systems from
congestion, or to heve a safeguard against things being said or done
by government or private groups that are inconsistent with the aims of
the government.
Rangoon radio in Burmese (June 30) reported that the "Nipponese
propaganda department" h-s issued notification thet under no circumstances
can newspepers or leaflets be sent out of the country. Severe punish-
ment will be inflicted on those acting contrary to this'notification.
July 8 a Japanese home service broadcast announced that the Board
of Information held its inaugural meeting with the correspondents
recently appointed to "deel with the practicel epplication of propaganda,
making use of war information," President Amau explained the "objec-
tives of the Borrd in wertime end various discussions were held relative
to the newspapers, pamphlets, publicetions (word) and writing groups for
peoples' movements with which the respective correspondents ere affiliated
and relative to their doing an effective job with the Informetion Board."
a July 6 home service broadcast reports that "in order to enhance
the spirit of loyalty end patriotism the IRa selected "Umi Yukaba."
the song of the immortal poet Otomo-No-Yakemochi, as a national song."
It will be dedicated at three shrines - in Kyoto, Oseke and Toyama--under
the auspices of the IRAA brenches in these cities.
Imperial Rule Assistance Political Society: A delayed New Delhi
monitoring of e home service broadcast for June 14 (confidentiel) gives
a clerr-cut picture of the politicrl technioue of the Imperial Rule
Assistence Politicrl Society before a Di-t session. The party's Diet
members held a conference on June 14, and President Abo nominated nomes
of party officials for the coning extraordinary Diet, Questions concern-
ing methods of dealing with government legisletive mensures during the
session were discussed, rnd arrangements made; Th- brondcast continues,
"Officials selected todey are ns follows:

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.97)
-8-
Diet Secretarias - 19, persons, including Yonezo Macdn, the
Party's Secretory
Diet Directors - 55 persons, including Katsu Ando
Diet Committ o - Presidont - Hatnjiro Koizumi,
Vice Presidents: Shingoro Hnshimoto, Takekyo llatsuts and
Juji Yokokawa.
Investigetion Committee - President - Miyoshi Kanemitsu
Vice Pr sidents: Shitenosuko Mecda end Kunio Nyuda.
Heads of various Dopartmonts:-
Cabinet Deportment
Hideo Ikede
Home Ministry Dopartment
Tadayoshi Matsumoto
For ign. Hinistry Department
Keiri Haruya
Financo Ministry Department
Yotanji Nakajima
Army
Masayoshi Kimura
Navy
Kisaburo Ichimura
Logal Affairs Ministry Department
Yoshitarc Kawano
Education
Kawataro Usuguta
Agriculture end Forestry
Noburu Miyoshi
Commerce and Industry
Sankuro Ogaseware
Communications
Uranosuke Koyema
Railways
Taketoshi Inai
Welfare
Goro Kato
G.E.A.
Masashi Kishida
At.the close of the conforence, the noninated officials met end decided
upon tho following arrengements:-
(i) that r1l officiels undertake to work from 8.30 n,m. to 9.00 p.m.
during the 82nd Diet;
(ii) that all inquiry connittees on Budgets or Special legislative
measures must begin their inquiry scssions overy day not later than
9.00 a.m.;
(lii) (this item unintolligible).
The sem, home service brondenst announced that the IRaa hed announced
th, following appointments ns officiels of its General Affairs Department
vecated by Shogoro Sakurai (who resigned to bacon? Advisor to Japanese
Militery Adninistration in the South Seas) and Okebo, Owate and Yaneguchi
(who have Joined the Cabinet): (1) Count Takamesp Sadai, nomber of
House of P ers; (2) Ichini Kato, Menber of Housc of Representetives;
(3) Yotanji Nakejina, momber of Houso of Reprosentatives; Toshine
Toshikata, member of House of Representatives; Kozo Yanamoto, dember of
House of Representatives,
Broekdown of Supplonontery Budgot Bill: Another hone sorvice broad-
cest, of June 14, nonitored in Now Dolhi, gives the following details
of tho supplonentary budgrt as ennouncod by the Bonrd of Infornation
(confidontial):

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.98)
- A9 -
Generel Budget - (1)
Revenues:
Supplementery annuel revenues
620,004,000 yen, 6,776,000 yen being
fron new revenues.
National bonds 313,228, 000 yen, which, to-
gether with the sum trnsferred from last
year, totals 400, 000,000 yen.
(ii)
Expenditures:
Current section
76,000 yen
Supplementary section
619,927,000
total
620,003,000 yen
Expenditure in detsil being:-
Home Ministry
4,416,000 yen
Finance Ministry
3,190,000 yen
Agriculture Ministry
491,356,000 yen
Commerce end Industry
63,479,000 yen
Welfere Ministry
57.561.000 yen
620,002,100
Office of Governor General
of Korea
140,414,000 yen
Food control in Korea
368,750,000 yen
Office of Governor General
of Formosa
43,149,000 yen
Rice control in Formosa
16,640,000 yen
National Bond Adjustment
Fund
420,874,00 yen
National Bond Fund
440,008,000 yen
Imperial Railways
2,000,000 yen.
POLITICAL DEVELOPMIN S IN "GREIAT  AS? ASIA"
Tojo's Peregrinations: Premier Tojo's 13-day trip to French Indo-China,
Chine, Thailend, Singapore, Sumatre, Borneo, Java end the Philippines has
been the biggest GTA news of the fortnight. Tojo left on June 29, return-
ed on July 12.
In Theiland Tojo conferred with Premier Pibul Songgrem and handed
over to Theiland two Shan States of Burma and four northern Malay states.
Significance of the deal is, according to home service broadcests, that
"whatever Japen promises is fulfilled, and the sense of gratitude of
Thailand toward Japan has been strengthened.".
In Singrpore Premier Tojo conferred with Field Marshal Count Hisaichi
Tereuehi, Supreme Comnander-in-Chief of the Japanese Expeditionery Force
in the Southern Regions. nglish Domei (July 6) reports thet on the
second day in Singapore he arose about 5 a.m. and merged from officers
headquarters in khaki shorts, open shirt and blue socks, walked around
the compound, chatted with police guerds And native youths. He stopped
e Japanese military car to learn its destination, end advised the official

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.95)
- A10 -
in it to walk tho three kilometers toward his destination in order to
conserve fuel and set an example to the local inhabitants, and also
in deferenco to the Japanese suffering hardships at tho front. Ho
also conferred with Ba law, chief of tho Burmese governn nt, and
SubhsBosc.
In Brtavin Tojo conferr d with supr me connander Lieut.-Gen. Kunakichi
Harada ond locnl military loaders, govornnent officials and civiliens.
H acknowl dged the "joyful ch ers of the crowds of nativ s lined along
th road" (hone s rvice, July l2). Ho spoko to e people's rally, elloged-
ly attended by 100,000 persons.
In Hanils ho conforr d with Jorg Vergas, chairnan of tho Philippines
x cutive Com ission, chicf conmander of Japancse forcos in the Philippinos
G n. Kuroda, Japanese military adninistrators end nombers of the Philippine
Indep ndence Preparatory Committeo.
Tho ASAhI SHIMBUN doscribed his journoy as a "mast rly blow against
Anglo-Anorican plens to disturb th steblishmont of Groator Eest Asie
by oxpansion and prolongation of th, war."
Matsui Statonnt: Gon rol Iwan  Hatsui who is "inspecting th
south rn r gions" issuad a stat mnt to roporters in Singopor (home
survice, July 1l). H ramark d that one of Jroen's paranount jobs would
be to unito the rncos of inst Asia. that officirls on th spot needed
to work harder toword this nd and thnt "the concopt of the southorn
 gions of the prople in gonoral in Japan scons to be quito difforent
fron th ctual conditions on th spot."
Aoki Rcturns: Hr. Aoki, Ministor of GTA Affrirs, roturned to Tokyo
and appaured at the Imperinl Palece to subnit to the thron a roport
concerning Jenonose-Thailand collaboration (Tokyo Frnnch to Indo-Chine,
July 7). His visit. followed so quickly by that of Promior Tojo  nd the
gift of territory to Theiland, re indicetive of the inportence Japen
placcs on Thei collaboration.
South Sons Offico Anniversary: A corenony for the 25th anniversary
of th: South Soas office was held nt tho Gma Hall in Tokyo. Count Hideo
Kodara, Hidejiro Nagate, Tsunco Kanomitsu end other notables attondcd.
Presidont Yondo of the South Sens Offico spoke. The Enperor grented
Imp riel gifts to the menoging-director of tho South Soas office.
Toshiyuki Fujita, in recognition of his "distinguished serviccs in the
offic" (hon, sorvicc, July 1),
Meeting of N w GEA Committer Nombors: The first mooting was held at
the officiel residonce of the Ga Ministor (home sorvico, July 9),
Minist r Aoki, a proxy of Vico-ninistr Takeuchi, chiefs of bureaus and
sections of tho Gla Ministry and 30 connittee mombers attended. It hes
been decided that the Gaa Ministry will call reguler monthly mretings
of th GEa Ministry committee.

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.97)
- All -
Burme Society: More than 40 "prominent persons" including Itaro
Mizuno. Director of the Southern Affairs Bureau of the Ga Ministry,
attended the ineugurnl ceremonies of the Burrm Society at Daitoa Hall
(Tokyo English Domei, July 8).
New Asia lienorial Day: This cerenony wes held in Peking on July
7 (Tokyo in Cantonese, July 7). About a thousend delegates ettended
the cerenony to conmemorate "the brave soldiers who died for New sia."
North China Koa Yokusankai: Tokyo English Donei (July 6) reports
from Peiping the inauguration of the "North China Koa Yokusankai"-
East asia Imperiel Rule Assistance associntion for North China--intend-
ed to function as headquarters for the IRaa movenent in North Chine,
embracing 400, 000 Japanese residents. (The party is expending. Pre-
porations have allegedly been in progress since the beginning of the
year, largely through the Peiping anbassadorial office. "Kiyonobu
Shiozawa, Japanese minister, and Juichi Tsushime, president of the
North China Dev lopment Conpany, have consented respectively to serve
as president end vice-president of the new orgon." Councillors will be
chosen from among the Japen se army end nrvy end the Hsin Min society
in North Chine.
Dest Asia Devclopment Confcrence: The second of these will be.
held at Hsinking for three days beginning August 16 (hone service, July
9). The. purpose will be to start a GEa novatent "to ndd great vigor
to the livelihood of the Asintic peopl s." It will be particip ted
in by the general heedouarters of the East Asia Pronotion Loegue, the
China section of the GEa Ministry, the Hsin Min Society, the Concordia
Association of Manchukuo, the People's Total Effort (word) of Koree,
and representetives of the IRaa and (word) trensportation federation
of Ewrngtung.
The Arts end Literature: Two French Indo-Chino artists will be
dispatohed to Japen (Tokyo Jepenese to South Seas, July 1l), in order:
to "facilitate goodwill and understanding of art between Japen end
French Indo-China."
A Japenese cultural nission will be Bent to Thailend in Novenber
(Tokyo Itelian to urope, July 8). Thailand will send e mission to
Japan in Soptenber. A Japanese prince, a peinter, a professor, a poet
end "seven fenous personages fron the fialds of nedicine, erchitocture,
Buddhian, end literature in the Japanese rpire" will comprise the
Japenese nission.
The Society for International Cultural Relations, "which is attempt-
ing to stablish a bright.Greater East Asie by utilising Japan's enornous
literary influence" (honc service, July 8) has published a special
number of "Spoaking Japenese" as cultural reading naterial for thc southern
regions. It boasts 68 pages with illustrations and caricatures, and.
sells for three yen.: It is the result of nearly thrce years of work
and will be used for Japanose language studiee in the niddle schools,
colloges and universitins in Asia, Plans ero in process foe a wrekly
edition.

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.97)
—A13 -
Four prize winners were ennounced for the GEa Co-prosperity sphore
in an essay contost sponsored by the MaINICHI SHIMBUN (English Donci
to GEA. July l0). Nenes of prize winners include e Burmeso, an Indonesian.
en Itelien. a French, two Filipinos, and en Indian.
The "GEa Decisive War Literary Men's Conference" will be held in
Tokyo for ten days boginning August 25 (Tokyo in Japanese to South Seas.
July 13). The conferonce is sponsored by the Nippon Literery Men's
Patriotic Service Association and is supported by the Infornetion Borrd.
the GEa Ministry and the Arry end Navy Ministries. It will be attended
by representatives of Japan. "Manchukuo," Nanking China, Thailand,
Burna, French Indo-Chine. the Philippincs "and other regions." Repre-
sentatives will be selected by the respective govern ent authoritles
ot the request of the Ministry of GEA effairs. The conference will
discuss establishnent of GEa literary prizes, and will heer reports by
delcgetes.
More Toure: Tho Java Military Adinistration has decided to send
the first inspection party of Javenese native inhabitants (twenty persons)
to Japen during tho first p-rt of August (hone service, July 13). It
will include "fanoue rocor onded leaders of the finenciel, eduction end
press worlds" being selected now by the nilitary edninistration. They
will stay in Japen for about a nonth. A July 15 English Donei dispatch
reports thet a party fron Sunatra conposed of 13 persons had alroady
reached Singapore en route to Tokyo.
Wonon for the Southern Regions: The "Wonen's Page"--a Batavia
broadcast in English to ustralia (June 15) announced that a Wonen's
Meritine Service Associetion has been founded in the Akasaka district.
Headed by the principal of a girl's school, the organization was founded
with a nenbership of 2. 000 and is expected to extend to ell parts of
Japen. Tho NIPPON TIMES is said to have reported it has the support
of the Maritine Affairs Bo rd, the Cormunications Ministry and other in-
portant bodies. "Its principal ain is to give those young wonen sone
treining in handling rowing bonts, notor bonts and other snell oraft.
At the sane tine, they will be trught things to prepare then for 
future coloninl life oversens; they will lerrn the rudinents of farn-
ing and other things relntive to work of colonization and developnent.
In short, everything possible is being done to oreate a lnrge group of
women with specinl training to be the wives of young nin going to over-
seas settlenents. The adventeges ere obvious...Nipponese people do not
casily overcone their reluctance to leave their own country...it is 
greater wrench than for neny others.... Yet Japanese young nen will
face it..., They will go with a lighter heart if they have wives specially
treinod to face such a life. Nippon nen usually prefer to look for
their wives in Japan, even if they live abroed such es second generation
Ancrican-Japennse. Or course the new orgenization will porforn othor
duties. also its menbers cen help raise funds for the building of wer-
ships. It is enothor way in which wonen play th-ir port in the notion's
war."

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.98)
÷A13 -
JAPANESE COFOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
ECOFOMIC ACTIVITIES IN ASIA
Economic Mission to China: A Japanese economic mission headed by
former Finance Minister Masatsune Ogura arrived in Nanking July 12
(Tokyo in English to Americas, July 13). It paid a courtesy call on Wang
Ching-wei, and hed a banquet given in its honor by Masayuki Tani. Jepanese
ambassedor to Fanking China. The party held an "intimate e xchange of
views for approximately two hours" with Finence Minister Chou Fu-hai,
Commerce Minister Mei Tzo-ping end Foodstuffs Minister Ku Pao Heng in
connection with current economic collaboration between Japan and Nanking
(home service, July 13). The mission is composed of "five influential
people representing Japanese private financial circles."
Burmese Mission to Tokvo: The chief of the Bank Bureau of the
Burma Civil Administration and other officials arrived in Tokyo end
attended e welcome banquet at the official residence of the GEA Minister.
He is the man who will take charge of banking and finance of the New Burmese
government, and expects to stay in Japan for about six months "to learn
the Japanese banking system" (Tokro Japanese to South Seas, July 10).
Textile Machinery for Burra: The first Japanese ship with a cargo
of spinning mechinery for Burma has arrived in Rangoon (Transocean,
July 13). Mechines will be mounted immediately so that work can start
in the near future. Says Transocean, "It may be recal led that an agree-
ment was concluded in April betwe:n Japan and Burma which provides for
the steblishment of  Burmese textile industry for strengthening the
cconomic position of the country."
Mooden Shipbuilders Go South: A party of 39 wooden-ship builders
has left Japen for the "southern regions" where they will utilize the
resources for building wooden ships (Tokvo in Japenese to South Seas,
July ll). The lender of the party, Riichi (Kido) said: "We the people
of the shipbuilding industry working at home, havea feeling of restlessness
each time we are told of the work being done by the armed forces.... e
aro happy that we cen now go to the southern regions on the spot where
is an unlimited supply of resources for building of wooden ships...."
Tokyo adds, "In the foregoing words the shipbuilders are showing a re-
assuringly healthy fighting spirit."
Tochnicians Go South: Supported by the GEA Ministry, the Nippon
Southern Association undertook training of technicians who will guide the
development of industry in the southern regions (Tokyo in Japanese to
South Americe, July 1l). The associetion ms selected a lerge number of
graduntes of local agricultural schools, trained then in growing of cotton
and fruit-cultivation. They will be sent in August to the Philippines,
Jave, and Sumatra "as industrial leeders. Much is expected of the out-
come."
Takase Returns to Tokvo: "The thing to be feered in the construction
.of economy in the southern regions is inflation. There is no infletion
said Dr. Sotero Tekase, President of the Tokyo University of Comnerce
when he returned from a two-month tour (home service, July l0). Takese
is a director of the GEA Economic Rescarch Institute atteched to the
university. He sees the economy of the future based on "smooth interchange,
especially, for example, the tin of Male1 (Malaya) for the rice of Djawa

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.98)
A -A14-
(Java) or the lumber of Thailand among member nations of the Co-prosperity
sphere.... He adaed that there is a great need for s ending teachers of
Japanesc to the southern regions in view of mounting enthusiasm to learn
the Japanese lenguago am ong the southern peoples."
Sericulture in Jave: An English Domei dispatch (July 8) reports
from   tavie thet "having successfully carried out experiments to produce
substitute work from the "ittucus Sicini" speces of wild silkworm,
Jopenese scientists at the Ched Bogol Agricultural Experimentel Ststrion
under direction of Masekaichi Hori, former spinning compeny lecturer et
Kyoto higher school, seriously mounced they are advancing rapidly toward
the gool to make co-prosperity."
Agriculturc Investigating Missions: Comprehensive inspections with
rogard to metters concerning the Agriculture Development Ministry,
started July 1, with Chief Takebe eppointed to head the inspection ended
July 10 (Manchukuo home service, July 10). The inspections wer: the first
ever to be carried out by the centrl government. As a result "great and
satisfectory results were achieved in connection with the significance
of Manchutuos  country for egricultural dovelopment." Consultations
on t he inspections ere to start July 17 at the Agriculture Ministry.
Flood of Goods: Says Tokvo English Domei July 16, "While the United
States and Britain are suffering from an acuto shortage of cardinal ar
materials Nippon is presently being flooded with important resources
flowing in from the southern regions.
Tin, one of the most important materials required by the war indus-
tries of Kippon is now allegedly supplied pbundantly from the southern
r gions which produce over 70 percent of the total world output. The
importation in "enormous quantity" of this vital material has resulted
in the reduction of the tin market price by 48 percent from the standard
price which was fixed by the government et 425 yen per 100 kilograms in
November of 194l. The present cut in tin prices which was officially
announced by the Ministry of Comerce and Industry was hailed by economic
circles as indicative of the "extremely sound wartime price structure"
of ippon as well cs the smooth progress of the development of natural
.res.ources.
Tokro adds in a German-language broadcest to Europe that the sane
is expected in regard to rubber, quinine, manila hemp and petroleum.
"With the progress of the work of cconomic development the price policy
of fighting Japan will tend more and more toward stabilizetion."
"Greeter Jast Asia Weekly Sumnary:" A delayed Tokyo Japanese-language
overseas broadcast, monitorod in Austrl in, summarizes the economic
developments in the southern regions for the werk onding June 27:
In Maleya. the iron menufacturing industry is being expended by using
native products, while plans are being considered to increase the efficiency
of power supplies, the production of aluminum etc. Rice end superior
coal beds comparable with those of smokeless coal of Manchukuo have been
discovered at several places in Sumatra, and they are being investigat d.

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.98)
- A15 -
In Java. the output of barley has increased remarkably. Cotton produc-
tion has also turned out to be much b,etter than expected. Irrigation
works in East Java have begun. and great hope is being entertained.
In the Philippines. the pre-war monthly output of Manila hemp of 1.000
tons hes been surpassed by a large mergin, end plans lave been set up to
use materials locally for the manufacturing of gunny bags. Other local
products such as soap (and ather articles named) have also increased
considerably. Sea transportation in the Philippines is improving with
more ships avai lable through salvage work etc. Final ly, in Japan. engineer
Oka of the Ministry of Commerce end Industry hes recently suçdeeded in
process. for making (Kokyu Junka yo-refined oil?) from the scrap of
'naga gomu! (rubber), and very soon production by the said process on a
large scale will be inaugurated in various places in the Southern Regions.
Food For Japan: In a first exchange broadcast for the "German
national radio" Tokyo, presents Erwin Wickert, in Gorman, speaking on the
subject of Japanese agriculture (July 5). This was the rainy season in
Japan when rice was being planted in the moist earth. "Rice has'be n
and contipues to be the.staple food of the. Last...for twenty vears attempts
have been made to introduce the potato into Japan, but without sucecss.
Today again the potato is being advertised. a grcet deal in Japan, sinco
there would bo no food problem whatever if the whole people ato potatocs
instead of rice."
Wickert points out that Japan has always imported rice from Thailand,
Indo-China and Burame, but that today, despite the fact rice is still
produccd abundantly in these areas, Japan cn not afford the shipping
space. Only, apparently, to avoid famine would Japan allocet e extra
shipping space for food imports. So Japan and Manchukuo are cxerting
effort to b ccome sclf-sufficient in food. From Manchukuo, whera 500.000
morgen (in Prussia this is usually the equivalont of O.631 ecres) of
rice ficlds ere to be planted on the banks of the Sungari tributary, rice
can be shipped into Japan largely by reil, He says the big industrial
works in Manchukuo are planning to satisfy the ne ds of their workere
by planting their cwn food, and cites the case of the Showa Steel works
which plans to plant 12,000,000 morgen of wheat and potatoes this year.
Another company is planting 8 million morgen of wheat, and a fishing .company
is planting an' equal amount.
Wickert reports the recent law by which student labor is provided
for hervesting and planting in. Japan, and. says that along'the etreets
of Tokyo's suburbs today one sees "corn, cucumbers or beans, egeplants;
melons.".
Coal Productioni According to a report of the Coal Control Associa-
tion the eotual-records for increased poal production from April through
June, inclusive, have shown a "remarkable advance" (home service, July
7). Although coal production usually decreases during April and Mey the"
production for these two months showed an increase of three percent and
in June an increase of. 7 5/10 percent. There is an increase in every'
depertment for the same period of last year.

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.98)
-A16
Machine Tool Production Exhibit: This.exhibition. held in Tokyo
(Tokyo in German to urope, July 13) shows the first results of measures
taken for the simplification of machine tool types, made necessary by
the war. Only simple machines such as lathes are being shown now, but work
on precision machines is progressing, says the reporter (a German m& chine
tools expert). . The machines are similar to American and German patt erns,
because unti1 1941 Japan imported most of her machinery from the United
States and "auring the first years of the Japanese metal industry most
of the equipment.was supplied by Americe." Jepan started producing machine
tools about 15 years ago, and after outbreak of the China Incident fac-
tories sprang up "everywhere." From. 1932 to 1935 Japanese machine tool
production was quadrupled. Two years ago there was an excess of produc-
tion over demand. Since l936 the authorities heve not published any
statistics, but in 1938 and 1940 two special bills were passed deal ing
with measures supposed to foster home production. The industry was re-
organized and the number of, plants decreased from approximat ely 1,000
in 1940, to 400. It was one of the first branches of Japanese industry
to go under semi-government control.
The reporter states that because of special subsidies and bonuses
granted by the stete, t he industry has improved so much "as far as machine
tool industry for armament purposes is concerned that Japan does not have
to fear the American production potential."
Toy Manufacturing Control Association: This ms been established
(home service, July 9) for toy manufacturers: the Tokyo Wooden Toy Manu-
facturing Association, the Tokyo Toy (word) Association and the Fational
Toy Retailers Association.. "The federation will strive for a heal thy
development "of the younger generat ion in accordance with the nationel
objectives.". The inaugural ceremony wes hcld in Kikuyabashi of Asakusa
ward in Tokyo on July 9. Representatives of the Commerce end Industry
Ministry, the Information Board and others attended.
Women at Worki A home service broadcast on July 7 reported thet in
accordance with the revised Special Ordinance of the Labor Control
ordinance, put into effect on July 1, the Welfare Minister or the governor
of the Tokyo Metropolis will enforce a limitation on the number of men
employed; and the Con erce and Industry Ministry (or governor) will
abolish all or parts of factories depending on importencc of the factory
to war industry, end shell have the men from these fectories employed in
vital factories or industriel locations designated by the Commerce and
Industry Minister. By this arrangement the entrance of women into in-
dustry is seen to have been made easier, among othor things, beeeus
regatesion on sensonal lnborallotmonte is to be dono by the state.
(Lt.-Gen. Teiichi Suzuki, Presidont of tho Planning Board, stat d in a
spc. ch on May 3 that "to provido tho personnel roquirod for industrial
expansion, the Government undor the national mobilization plan will
restrict or prohibit the employment of males whoro such tasks can easily
bo handled by women."
A typicel oxample of. the sort of propaganda prossure being put
on Japancse women to go to work is scen in a homc sorvice broadcast of
June 3 which says: "It is importont for the womenfolk to holp in the

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.99)
-A17-
effort to increase production during their leisure hours. Since 1939
there have been guidance centers in existence, where women are trained
in the sort of work they cm do in the home... (broadcast describes types
of work women can do in factories, simple jobs). The hours of work for
women are usually 10.00 to 15.00 which 1s a convenient time; and five
hours' work is, not excessive. Many women have started to work since
their menfolk left for the front. They have found they become stronger,
their health is good, and they acquire precise habits. They have a break
of 30-40 minutes rest during their period of work. There are many
factories which have excellent facilities for the care of children while
their mothers are at work; there are a number of girls aged about 20 in
the workshops, but more middle-aged women should take up employment too,
instead of idling away their time at home."
Young Girls Labor Patriotic Service Corp: This new organization
will join with the Dai Nippon Touth Corps and will come under a system
of governing regulations. Members will be unmarried girls between ages
21 and 25.
24-hour Day: Transocean (July 15) says that the introduction of a
24-hour day in Japan's war industrics was discussed at the Central Coopera-
tive Council meeting. Before this step could be teken, however, various
difficulties have to be overcome--such as acquisition of sufficient
supplies of raw materials to keep the factories going, and a sufficient
nunber of factory hands.
Pictorial Weekly' Reviews New Labor Structure: The July 8 issue of
the Weekly and the Pictorial Weekly edited by the Informetion Board pre-
sents an article on recent labor trends in Japan titled "The Establish-
ment of the New Labor Structure," says a Hsinking home service broad-
cast, July 7. It is concerned with the activities of the netional labor
scrvice association, the students' lebor law, end the problens of women
in wartine labor.
Shippingi Saigon in French (July 16) reports that a Maritime Trans-
port Service between Japan and Chosen opened on July 15.
Fishcries: The Teikoku Suisan Tosei Kaisha (Imperial Fisheries
Gontrol Company) has decided to control distribution of all meterials
used at sea on fishing vessels (home service, July 9, monitored in Delhi).
Manila in English to the Philippines (July 9) reports that "çon-
sidering the importance of en adequate merchant marine to the New Philippines,
the Jepanese Military Administration has au thorized the office of Maritime
Affairs to open a Philippine Trai ning course. Thrce separet e courses.
will be given: one for boys of 16 to 20 years, who have finished elementary
school, who will: be given training as naval seamen; one for deck officers
and engineers; and one for "ships' engineers who will replace engineers
aboard steam vessels under seil with auxiliary engines.".
The first comnendation ceremony was held on "Sea Memorial Day," July
20, for "excellent seaien." The programs were scheduled to emphasize
ship-building and seamen's morale (home service, July l0).

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.98)
-. A18 -
Salvage Workers in the Indies: A relay program from Batavia to
Tokyo, in Japenese, was picked up by F.B.I.S. engineers on July 8 for the
first time. The progran was excellent propaganda for recruiting merchant
marine personnel, being a series of messages-to-home from men in the
morchant marine servico in thc Dutch East Indies.
An old man talks first. He is introduced as Ijuro Mori, chief engineer:
"As an essential measure, the government is speeding up ship build-
ing. A ship is a thing that unless man's hands are adequate it is hard
to express her fullest capacity. .Seamen are important. Is there eny boy
who is scared of an enemy submarine or a flying fortress? It is your
duty to do your duty. I am a 63-year old man, but a patriotic desire is
burning my heart. I am doing all I cen with the rest. There may be a
chance that our ship may be attacked by the enemy. Is there any boy
who cannot compete with this old man? I know there is none, Each one of
us has determination to defeat the enemy. In order to complete this
war. there are meny things we must do. However, completion of the sea
route service is our greatest duty. Our sea is calling you. Can you
hear her voice?"
Next comes & "letter to mother" from l6-yeer old Takeshi Yamamoto.
His mother's name and address in Kobe is given, He says: "Since I
left there I arrived here on May 1. We. are down here since we left there
on March. I am working h rd where the enemy planes at tack occasionally.
I often dream about you. I remember my school teacher told me that the
sec route is most important in this war, Our equipment must be sent to
the fronts. I was told by my teacher that we must exert our all for our
country.
"My heart gets heavy sometimes, but when I see the soldiers my heavy
heart gets light. Each time I see their bright faccs, I feel very proud
of my service. Our ships are so busy they have no chance to get new
paint. It is sometimes hard to differentiete the ships. During the night
we watch for enemy submarines, As you know, the enemy is always looking
for our merchant ships. Our ship was at tacked by a flying fortess. The
enemy planes dropped bombs. But, by its third swoop our plane was sightad,
It was our hayabuss plane. It gave us a decp gratitude.
"Mother, I have confidence now. I am not afraid of the enemy. I
discovered an enemy submarine. I shouted. The ship canged its dire ction.
The ship added more speed. Two torpedos were released by the anemy. The
captein was watching the torpedos. He was very calm. The torpedos missed
our ship. I was ver glad when the ceptain praised me.
"Mother, I an tired. Our members are ell asleep for they are dead
tired.
"Now we are allowed to go out when we arrive et e port, Each time we
onter a ship, there are clubs where wo cen stay and pass our time.
"We cre not efraid of the enemy. Our soldiers ere watching the
"Washington sky" in full preparation.
"Mother, is Naoko bothering you? Is she a nice girl? Soon, we will
have a brighter day. Goodbye."

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.99)
-A19
Next a Commander Hino tells the s tory. of ship salvage work in
Indonesia. "There are many ships exposing their ugly bodies in port.
Is it possible to make use out of them? But, we have done our dut.
It is easy for us to contact malaria fever. It is very hard work.
"Indonesians are giving great aid to us. Of course, they cannot do
complicated work, but they are used freely on ensier work. Then in what
manner do we salvag ships?
"First we study the condition of the ships. The hidden parts of a
ship will be carefully studied under the weter. But, this is very hard
work. Based upon this study we plan so that the ship can be salvegcd.
The cnemy removed all the valuable parts of ships. All the unvaluable:
parts were left behind with the ships.
"After preparatory work is done we repair the holes.  Of course,
the enemy badly damaged the ships when they sunk them. Thers are ships
sunk by dynamite. Then, after this weter is taken out so that she
may be made lighter. Twisted ships will be s traightened beforc"brought
to the shore.
"You might think it is ver easy, but it is not so easy: It is very
dangerous, too. Sometimes the ships fall down t oward"the opposite side
than we intended. Sometimes the ships are placed in a position much harder
to handle than before. In such manner the work continues.
Sometimes, we think whether the ship is usable or not. But we
patiently repair them when we see.the ship floating over the water it gives
deep gratitude. Our hard work is sufficiently rewarded and we forgt all
the hardships.
"After the ship is completely repaired it will be offered for service.
When the ship leaves port, we feel great happinees.
"Ladies and gentlemen; there are many ways of serving the nation,
We are serving the nation in our own way."
Development of Marine Transportation Control: A Japanese Domei press
service dispatch to Asia (July 12) reports thet an "epoch-making develop-
ment in marine transportation controi" has occured as a result of the
fact that marine transportation ts becoting "increacingly acute:" The
goverrment recently decided to rcadjust and renovate the ship trensporta-
tion and navigation syston, with the following principal ains in view:
(1) The organization and work of the ship operating conpanies were.
sinplified and at the sane tine the parties nanaging the trensportation
and navigation business were brought together and consolidated and their
responsibilities were made greater by transferring to ther the task of.
transportation and nevigation.
(2) The fundamental policy of the readjustment end control of the
marine transportation industry, which the (policy) is the besis of the
foregoing point, was clarified.

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.98)
- A20 -
The reorganization of the shipping managenent world will complete
the consolidation of the perties managing the transportation and navi-
gation business one after another during the period ending Octobor 31.
The new organization is scheduled to be ineugurated on (November 1).
The discharge end new appointments of perties managing the transportation
and navigation business will be effected as of August 1.
The gist of the outline for an urgent readjustment of the ship
transportation and navigation system is as follows:
"(1) The work of the ship transportation management association will
be mainly affairs relating to plans for putting ships into service, com-
pensation, the menngement of transportation and of recruiting of seanen.
These on the whole will be trensferred to the porties managing trans-
portation and navigation. However, det ils of this now are baing studied
and they will be n nounced soon.
"(2) Parties managing transportation and navigation were designated in
the past on the basis of tonnage, but ns e result of the recent consolide-
tion consideration will be given herenfter to actual records in transporta-
tion and navigation, tonnage in transportation and navigation, the trans-
portation and navigation system, expericnce, (and so forth) and the
parties will be designated." (Rest incomplete and garbled.)
Transocenn (July 13) cites the MAINICHI as reporting that in the
future there will be in Japan only 21 shipping compani.s compared to 40
at present. This is a result of the project to centralize Japanese morcantile
shipping, not only for the war period but also for the postwar period. The
newspaper declares that six of these companies were employed regular service,
eight in special service, five in tanker service and two wcre called upon
for-carrying through special missions.
Wooden Ship Building: (Scc also section on Econonic Dev lopmonts in
Asia, this report.) The Federation of Wooden Ship Construction Associations
held a special conference at the GEA hell in Marunouchi attended by
Communications Minister Terashime, Chiof Matsuki of the Merine Affairs
Board and others (home service, July 8).
"In order to plan for the strengthening of the structure of the fedora-
tion to keep in step with the rapid advance of mass wooden ship construc-
tion, the control regulntions wore revised and at the same tine directors,
additionel members of the executive board end members of the general affairs
comnittee were selected.
(A decision) has ben renched to revise the control regulations, and
President Chiba of the federation resigned from office. (Ryosei) Kawai
former vice-mayor of Tokyo, wns eppointed as the new president. In
nddition, Takuo Godo was appointed adviser to the federntion."
A large number of Chinese experts for building Chinose junks will
shortly proceed to Japan from Shanghai in order to assist Japanese offorts

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.99)
-A21
to increase construction of wooden ships according to Transoccan, July
4. With Nanking's epproval and support, lending Chinese circles in
Shanghai forned a committee in order to rucruit and send more Chincse
building experts later to Japan.

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.98)
一31
FREECHINA
In celebration of China's six years of resistance, Tokyo propagandists seize
the opportunity to loose another dart at their constant target in China:
"CEASE RESISTACE" (see Weekly Review, No. 84, July 1O, p. 13). . In Chinese
broadcasts from Tokyo, Japanese spokesmen are painfully confused as to why
Chungking continues to be the "puppet-traitor of China," the "turncoat of
G. E.A.," the "cat's-paw of the Anglo-Americans." "If Japan has committed
any blunders, she hopes Chungking will plainly advise her to refrain from
such action, " says Kamizo Tomogani in a Chinese commentary on July 8. He
hastily adds, "But I think Japan has made no blunder." Chungking is the
one, he says, who, through ignorance, has made the serious blunder of
mortgaging its country through Anglo-American promises of help which will
avail China nothing." Tokyo continually warns China to beware of Anglo-
Americans bribes and promises which are designed to keep China fighting
for them. Free China has become the "Orphan of Asia." This aspect of
China's international relations is reason enough for her to stop fighting;
but.added to this, as pictured by Tokyo, are conclusive evidences of her
internal disintegration.
CHINA AND THE UNITED STATES
Radio Chungking celebrates America's Independence Day by.paying tribute
to the spirit which sustained America through her long struggle for national
independence. Simultaneously, Tokyo propaganda concentrates on charges
against the United States, which to the Japanese mind, are convincing
proof that China dares not trust America as an Ally. In the general
pattern of discrediting the Anglo-Americans, Tokyo and other Axis radios
single out the United States for more specific attention during the past
fortnight. The chief culprit in perpetuating China's regrettable depend-
ence on America is Chiang Kai-shek, who has left "the command of China's
fighting services...at the disposal of Americans, the domestic administra-
tion in charge of American political advisers;and Chungking's diplomacy
at the beck and call of President.Roosevelt and.the United States." This
"traitorous" record disqualifies Chiang from having any right whatsoever
to speak for the Chinese people and their independence, as he. "unblushingly"
does in his recent work entitled China's Destiny.
Specific charges are levelled againet the United Statesi (1) President
Roosevelt has instructed General Stilwell to make every effort to become
Commander-in-Chief of the forces of East Asia just as Eisenhower has done
in Europe. "General Stilwell's. efforts show that America- wishes to have the
balance in her favor and does not want her generals. to serve under other
nations" (Free Moslem Radio in Hindustani to India. July 3, 9:57 a.m.)
(2) Tension between Major General Chennault and Generalissimo Chiang over
the control of air forces in China came to a head in a June 26 mesting.
"Chennault has demanded of the. Chungking regime the exclusive use of the
airfields at Kweilin in Kwangs1.and Chienan in Fukien, in addition to the
monopolising of the airfields in Lingling and Liangshan" (Tokyo, English
to Latin America, 7130 a.m., July 1l; also Tokyo in Japenese to India,
July. 16 and Tokyo 1n English to: the Americas, July: 15): Part of the

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.98)
-.B2 ~
friction between the Chinese and American air arms is said to be "the
arrogant attitude of the Americans toward the Chinese people." They have
"assumed absolute speriority over the Chinese people as well as their
racial prejudices." They cat and drink without paying and "commit
violonce" with Chinese women sent to comfort them.
(3) American periodicals are cited for evidences of "comploto absonce
of accord over the now fast-tottering Chungking rogime." The NATIo, Poarl
Buck's article in LIFE, and Eligt Janeway's article in ASIA are cited as
evidqnce that "Chungking is ready to explode at any moment. " due both to
internal and oxternal oonditions.
(4). The discriminatory treatment of Chinese sailors on Anglo-American
ships turns up bricfly on Paris end Free India radios, July 8 and 5
respectively.
(5) Tokyo becamo most specific in its English language broadcasts on
July 1 and 2, which discusscd in detail the history of the American Immigra-
tion. Act enacted 19 years ago. "Opon hostilities do not happen on the day
when they como to.the fore. But one can trace back for their real origin
to a certain definite cause comnitted well in advance by an offender."
Again, "What else is this war but the very gravo consequence of that primary
doad of enmity so carelessly thrown by the American people 19 yoars ngo?"
"Any nation similarly insulted by another is perfectly justified in doclar-
ing war on it." "Tho seed of race prejudice the United States has sown
against the Japanese people is now being reapod in tho form of death and
destruction in the present conflict." "The fundamental cause of the present
war is attributable to tho Exclusion Act. The racial supcriority complex,
which is a strong mark of the Anglo-Saxon character. is a great (holocaust)
to humanity." "It does the (Japenese) people credit that they have kopt
their nerve, and that it was only. after countless other provocations that
17 years later they finally took up the gauntlet."
Throughout those discussions, constant raference is made to the "Japanese
Exclusion Act" and the. "Anti-Japanose Immigration Law. " by which is meant
the Imrigration Act of 1924. While the "plight of the oarly Chinese im-
migrents" is included in the discussions, emphasis is on discriminntion
against Japan, and no mention 1s made of the fact that betwoen 1882 and
1913 the American Congress enacted 13 laws conteining provisions which
singled out the Chinese by name for spocial discrimination.
In the face of these. Japanese charges, the Chungking radio maintains
the usual tone of confidont optimism. An audience of more than one hundred
thousand people listoned in Chungking to Madame Chiang's report of her trip.
to America.. Madame Chiang said (1) that "The Chinese people ought to under-
stend thoroughly the friendly regard: the American people havo for the
Chinese. (2) Under the same ideal and the same banner which will ovor-rule
all obstacles of racial and othor problems we will await victory with one
heart, and.one. virtue. (3) Now that we have the aid from our Allics, we
must fürther build our own destiny to make oursolves strong and solf-
reliant." On the question of Chinese seamon, the bill which has passod the
House is "hailed as a signal viotory for: Chinese seamen who have boen de-
tained by American. authorities during the past yoar." On tho ropoal of the
Exclusion Act, the efforts of Mrs, Roosovelt and Clare Luce are reported.

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.99)
CHUNGKING REGIME ON THE WAY.OUT
Japanose radios continuo to present thoir picture of the Chungking
regime as boing on its way out, Multiple reasons ere given for this, among
which are the loss of e reason for resisting Japen which now has a "new
policy" in China, the doclining power of resistance due to riots which
caused the failure of the northwest developmont, China's abandonment by
her Allies, the incrcase in the number of prisoners ond groups surrendering
to the Japanese, dissatisfaction of the people over inflation, and the
radual reawakening of the masses of China to their pride as Asiatics.
Two wecks ago Tokyo said it was tho Moslems in Kansu who werc chiofly
instrumental in furthering China's political. disintegration., During the
past fortnight the Chinese Communists have again enjoyed the spotlight of
Japanose radio attention. But consistency is no hobgoblin of the Japaneso
propaganda mind. In one breath wo are told that it is the Communists who
cre tho villains in the picce. In tho noxt it is the ovil Chungking rogime
which is responsible for China's disintegration.
Chungking-Communist Crisis: Tokyo takes its cuo this time from the
statement of a Chinese government spokesman, whom Tokyo identifies as the
Minister of Information. (The. statement was roported to tho Amorican press
by the Associated Press Chungking, corrospondont, but has not appeared in
monitored Chungking broadcasts.) According to this statemont, as reported
both by the Associnted Press and the. Tokyo radio, "a. split has arisen in
tho Chinese Communist Party" as a result of tho rocent dissolution of the
Comintorn. This crisis is given by the Chinese spokesman as the roason
for'the doparture from Chungking of Goneral Chou En-lai, one of tho
Communist Big Three, whd has been serving in Chungking as Communist repre-
sontative. Chou is seid to have gone to Ycnan, the Communist Capital of
Shensi Province, to straighten out the diffcrences betwoon the Communists
who are inclined.to abide by the authority of the Chungking regime and
others still holding to the Comintern school of thought.
Tokyo's additions to the Associated Pross report are (1) that Chiang
Kei-shek is utilizing tha recent dissolution of the Third International
to smash the power of the Chinese Communist Party, and (2) that the
Minister of Informtion "ropudiated suggestions for negotiations...and
declared 'It isn!t practicable for a government to nogotiate with the
oppositian'" (Tokyo Domei to Greater East Asia, 7:00 p.m., July 7). The
Joponise interpretation that Chungking capitalizing on the dissclution of
the Cofintern 1s not new. On June 1, 1943 a Hongkong Chinese broadcast
stated, "Chungking was very pleased with the dissolution. The former's
propagonda against the Comminists in China was spread all over the Chungking
area on the 25th and its anti-Communist papers published editoriels end
criticisms for two days on the 27th and 28th." On the Chinese Communist
intorpretation of.tho meaning of tho dissolution, a Domoi Press Service for
the Pacific Zone on May 29 cited a Shenghai source for stating: "Evidence
showing the dubious nature of the Kromlin's move to dissolve the Third
International was disclosod in a report roceived recontly by tho Central
Chine Anti-Communist Loague hare. The report said that the Central
Executive Committeo of the Communist Party, it is understood, hap sent
spocial instructions to Communist alomonts here to the effect that they

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.98)
一B4 -
should not take the dissolution of the Third Intornational at its face
value. The instructions further pointed out that, although tho dissolu-
tion cf the Third International will continue to be propagandized, all
branches of the Third International are roquested to continue their
activities without any change, the roport. revealed. It is said tho in-
structions pdded that the basic policy of the Third International in carry-
ing out world rovolution will remain unchanged and that a Fourth Inter-
netional to replace the Third International will be organized in the near
future.n
It will be recalled that on July 2 Saigon and Shanghai radios reported
that Mao Tse-tung accompanied by Ching Chao-yu, and other Communist leaders,
had sone tc Moscow to consult with Soviet leadcrs concerning the attitude
to be takon by the Chineso Communist Party aftor tho dissolution of the
Comintorn. According to a June 1l broadcast Tokyo reports that Mao Tee-
tung is taking part in the discussion going on in the Communist capital.
Chungking Demands: Tokyo's report, cchoed by Peking, Saigon and
Hsinking, is that the Chungking regime has ngain prosonted "strong demands"
--in cno broadcast charactorized as "a high-hended aggrossive policy--to
"oradicate Communist influence from its controlled areas." Tho demands
aro said to include two specific proposals: (1) that the Shensi-Kansu-
Ninghsia border government be dissolvod, and (2) that the 18th Group Army
and its subordinate units be put under the direct command of the Chungking
Supr me Defense Council. The Chungking Supreme Defense Council is said by
Tokyo to have sent Chang Tsung, Chou En-lai, and Kuo Mo Jo to Yenan to
persuade the Ccnrunist leaders of the reascnableness of these demande. The
Communist leaders named are Chu Teh, Mao Tse-tung, and Lin Chu-han (Tokyo
in Chinese, July ll).
Conmunist Reaction: Upon receiving the denands from Chungking, says
Tckyo, "the highor-ups of the Chinese Communists, including Mao Tse-tung
and (Chou Won-chen) met in conference, deciding upon tho convccation of an
oxtraordinary meeting of the Chinese Red leaders and the Chinese Communist
commanders, It is reportod that such Communist commanders as Chu Teh, Lin
Piao, and Ho Lung are already hurrying to Yennan fron their front lines.
Although the final decision is expected to be made by the vote of the
conference, the radicals whioh constitute the majority are now advocating
the flat refusal of the Chungking demand, even at the sacrifice of the
unifioation of the Chinese races" (Tokyc, English, to Latin America,
7:30 a.n., July 13). In another broadcast on July. 16 Tokyo states, "Con-
fronted by a great political crisis the Rods are now holding an omergeney
(...) under the chairmanship of (Mao Chu Fan). In addition the Communist
officials of the Provincial governnent (...) are ordering the Communist
General Governnent to take drastic measures against the attitude being taken
by the Chungking regino" (Tokyo, English, to Latin Anerica, 7:30 a.m.,
July 16). A third broadcast represents the "preveiling" view in the.
Communist emergency meeting as being that which "supports the decision that
the demands of the Chungking regime should be resolutely refused, even if
this means ignoring the conmon defense agreement--ae long as the Chungking
regimo continues this attitude of suppression" (Tokyo, Japanose to United
States, 3:40 a.m., July 13);

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.99)
一B5 -
Chungking Counteraction:  On July 17 Saigon reported in English to
Australia and New Zealand with a Nanking dateline: "Under instruction
from the Chungking Supreme National Defense Council. Chungking military
leaders in the northwestern provinces held a conference on July 10 and 11
under the chairmanship of Chen Cheng, Governor of Shansi Province, to,
discuss concrete military measures for dealing with Chinese Communists.
(Note: Latest official listing of Free China Provincial Governors place
Chen Cheng in Hupeh and Yen Hsi-shan in Shansi.) Those who attended the
meeting besides Chen Cheng included Hu Tsung-nan, Commander-in-Chief of the
Chungking 34th Group Army; Sun Wei-chu, Commander-in-Chief of the Fourth
Group; (Ting Pao-chun) Commander-in-Chief of the Shansi-Suiyuan Border
Zone; (Tao Kwan-ching) Commander of the 32nd Army; (Yang Shen) Vice-commander
of the Second War Zone, and Sun Ying-ting, Chief of Staff of the First War
Zone. At the conclusion of the conference, both Sun Wei-chu and (Ting
Pao-chun) proceeded to Chungking in order to discuss the concrete measures
to be taken against the Communists."
The pattern of the above Japanese report on a Chungking-Communist
crisis is interesting in the extent to which it parallels other Japanese
reports of similar "crisis" in the past. "Demands" and "counter-demands,"
"aggressive policies," "splits," "extraordinary sessions," "radical
elements, ". "purges," "suppressions,"--all appear in faithful succession
until finally comes a deadlock with the "breach" fatally widened between
the two groups. In August 1942 the initiative was said to have been taken
by the Communists in prosenting demands to Chungking, which responded
with a "categorical refusal" and "counter-demands." In August, 1942
Tokyo reported a "split" in the Communist Party, resulting in the explusion
of Chou En-lai as Communist Party representative in Chungking. The group
in the Party was said to be composed of followers of Mao Tse-tung, and the
other to be the "elders' faction." In September 1942, Tokyo reported that
"thc Communist Party has organized a purge corps ordered by Mao Tse-tung.
who is callad the Communist Dictator of China, to stamp out the Chungking
elements which have been disturbing the Red Party from within." An"extra-
ordinary" session of Communist Party leadors was called to deal with the
"crisis" then, as now.
Two slight variations are given by Tokyo in interpreting the present
situation, (1) The Communists are represented es prepared to give a
"flat refusal" to Chungking's demands, even at the expense of the "common
defense agreement." Tokyo radio material has not before made reference
to the Communists! willingness to abandon the United Front. (2) Tokyo
credits the Communists with obstructing a mounting "racial awakening" among
the people of the Chinese hinterlands. The realization is growing among
the Chinese people, says Tokyo, that Japan's "new policy" is much more pro-
ductive than Chungking's "negative" policy, The only "barrier" which pre-
venting all-out cooperation be ween Chungking and Japan is "the constant
attempt by the Chinese Communists to nip such a popular reawakening in
the bud" (Tokyo, English Domei, 11:00 a.m., July 8). In another broadcast
attacking Chiang Kai-shek, Tokyo declares, "There is left in Chungking not
even the slightest sign of the Three Peoples' Principles. As far as the
Chungking regime is concerned the Three Peoples' Principles have already
been replaced by Communism through compromise and dealings with the
Communist Party."

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.98)
B6 二
An alleged Chinese Communist Party Declaration on the 6th anniversary
of war is answered by Japanese named Tani, identified by Hsinking radio as
President of the Information Board of the North China Political Committee.
The statement was said to be "an attempt to pull through the people of
China who are disillusioned by the failure of the fighting camp." Tani
"oriticizes" the declaration, "warns" the resisting army, and concludes,
"The 50 million of China must be solidified so that they may realize the
establishment of the Greater East Asia as taught by the national father.
Sun Yat-sen, by completely exterminating Communist bandit armies."
Current discussions by Tokyo of the Moslem revolts in Kansu, fully
reported in the RADIO REPORT, add three names of prominent Mohammedans.
Lt. General Ma Chung is reported to have joined the Nanking foroes. Sixty-
two year old General Ma is said to have been attached to the 1st War Zone
headquarters: formerly. he was a member of General Yen Hsi-shan's provincial
sovernment in Shansi; at one time he was chairman of the Shansi-Moslem
Association and director-gen ral of the anti-Communist movement in Shansi
(Tokyo, English to the South Seas. 5:on a.m., July 6). The other two
Mohamnedan leaders mentioned are Ma Men-li and Ma Chung-wu, who are said
to have been appointed by Chiang Kai-shek to cooperate with Governor Ku
Cheng-lun, General Chu Shao Liang, General Pai Chung-hsi and General Ma
Hung-kwei, in "subduing" the suspected Mohammedan uprising (Tokyo, English
Domei.. July 10).
CHUNGKING RECONSTRUCTION PROGRESSES
Northwest Reconstruction Investigation Party: This party, headed by
Dr. Lo Chia-lun, has started its work in Lanchow by collecting data from
local organizations on problems of water conservation, agricult re,
industry and public healith. The party will shortly proceed to Sinkiang.
Admiral Shen Hung-lieh is reported by Chungking to have left for Lenchow
for a northwest food conference. After a brief stay there, he will proceed
to Tsinghai, Hinghsia, Shensi and Honan.
Nine-Provinces Investigation: Kwangtung, Kwangsi, Kweichow and Yunnan
will be the aroa investigated by a party led by Dr. Wu Shang-ying, Secre-
tary-Goneral of the Legislative Yuan. Hunan, Hupeh, Kiangsi, Chekiang and
Fukien will be the areas investigated by a party led by Dr. Lou Tung-fun,
Chairman of the Economic Affairs Commission of the Legislative Yuan.
Railway and Telecommunications, Relief: Encouraging reports are pre
scnted by the Chungking radio on the construction of railways and telegraphc
communications during the prosecution of the war. Relief of famine and
flood victims is reported as progressing in Honan, Hunan, Kwangsi and
Kwangtung, with special attention to a water conservation program in Honan.

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.99)
- C1 -
OCCUPIED CHINA
Japan seems to be marking time in her propaganda, spreading out her activ-
ities in China so that the impact of them may be felt without ever really
accomplishing anything crucial. The next step seems to be the formal
"return" of the International Settlement at Shanghai to the puppet Chinese,
scheduled for August 1. The anniversary of the opening of the "China
Incident" was not after all, the occasion of any new action--only speeches
and celebrations merked the occasion.
TREATY REVISION
There has been no further mention of the promised forthcoming re-
vision of the treaty between Japan and Nanking China. No explanation for
the delay or the silence 1s given by Tokyo. It hardly seems probable that
the revision was made but kept quiet since any "revision" would be mainly
for its effect on public opinion in Occupied and Free China.
INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENT
Tokyo seems to be marking time until August 1 when the International
Settlement will be formally handed over to the puppets. However, it would
seem that conferences are continuing on the details of the agreement. On
July 10, Domei announced that a conference was held in Shanghai between
Japanese officials and the puppet Chinese of Shanghai "to discuss the handl-
ing of business of the SMC (Shanghai Municipal Council) following the
restoration of the International Settlement." "It is understood the
utilization of the Council's funds, payments of salaries of former officials
of the SMC and the disposition of leading personnel were the principal
topics of discussion."
EXTRATERRITORIALITY
There has been no announced agreement on the question of extraterritori-
ality. Radio materials point to various conferences and say that the
negotiations were conducted in the spirit of "mutual understanding" and
that satisfactory progress was made (Transocean, July 3). Dome1 on the
same date was a little more specific in saying that "an amicable settlement
was reached regarding the question of the right of taxation." It is
problematic whether any agreement reached will be announced before August 1
when the International Settlement will be formally handed over--lest an
extraterritorial agreement detract too much from the deed at hand.
FOREIGN CONCESSIONS
French Concession at Shanghai: Predictions still continue that the
French Concession will be "returned" to the puppet administrators very
soon. The formal agreement ias not yet been announced as signed.
Italian Concession at Tientsin: Berlin reports that a 20 year agree-
ment concerning the Itelian Concession in Tientsin was reached. It was

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.99)
- C2 -
pointed out that with this agreement and the French agreement, "all foreign
concessions in China have ceased to exist" (Berlin in Germany, July 13).
JAPANESE IN CHINA
Japanese Economic Mission: Besides the various Japanese business men
mentioned in the last report on the mission, recent radio material shows
that the following are members of the party: Matsusune Ogura, head of the
mission, former Finance Minister and now Cabinet Advisor; Kanichiro Akutsu,
Secretary of the East Asia Economic Round Table Conference; Kyohei Hamano,
Director of the Osaka Chamber of Commerce and Industry; Masaji Yoshida,
Director of the Mitsubishi Bank in Shanghai and "one of the leading
authorities on the China question"; and Toshinori Nakanishi, Director of
the East Asia Economic Society. Also mentioned in another dispatch are:
"Teruo Akashi, Chairman of the Teikoku (Imperial) Bank; Saburo Nagano,
President of the Trae Control Association; Gengo (Oda?) President of the
Dai Nippon Spinning Company (Domei in English, July 6).
Satisfaction was expressed in regard to the results of the conferences
between the pupnets and the Japanese in Nanking and Shanghai.
Trade Control Organ: "More than 40 leading Japanese concerns in
China including the Mitsui and Mitsubishi Companies have formed a new
trade control organ completely independent of the 'Trade Control Organ'
under the puppet Nanking puppet organization." Chungking's Central News
reports this in English and adds that the organ is expected to play an
important part in the exploitation of the economic resources in Central
China (July 14).
Propaganda to Free China: A Tokyo broadcast in Chinese shows a
consciousness of how Japan expects her actions in regard to the puppet
regime to have effect on Chungking. Tokyo said "We admit that your wa:
resistance was actuated by high patriotism at the outset but as the excuse
of continuing war is lost, we have little sympathy now for your stupid
actions. If the Government at Nanking is actually Japan's puppet, why are
half of the Chinese people zcalously supporting (it)? Can you justify to
yourselves that 200 million Chinese are all traitors?" This message was
delivered on the anniversary of the beginning of the "China Incident."
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE NOTES
Judicial:. There was recently promulgated a law whereby a Public Pro-
curators Office and a Supreme Court was established under the Judicial
Yuan.. The puppet Executive Yuan eppointed Chien Szu-pu as the first
president of the newly cstablished Suprome Procuratcrs Office (Domei in
English, July 6).
"Society for Active Diplomacy": This society gave a tea party in
Shanghai for the puppets and Japanese. The president of this organization
1s Wen.Lan-tin (Domei in English, July 9).
Wang Ching-wei: An "extensive article" on Wang Ching-wei, describing
his life and political carcer appeared in the ESSENER NATIONAL ZEITUNG on

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.97)
- C3 -
July 9 reported Transocean. The reason for the intcrest is said to be be-
cause "Today it has become clcarly evident that Wang Ching-wei's political
ideas are of great impprtance for the development and reconstruction of
China. He is slated to lead China to its due placc within reorganized East
Asie and to k p away from it the noxious influencc of Bolshevism." The
paper concludcs after a review of his life which is not roported by Trans-
occan, Wong's "political career." inconsistent as it might perhaps appear
at first sight neverthcless elways served only one purpose, namely, to
off ctuate the ideas of his master, Sun Yat-sen." There was no mention
2
of how Sun Yat-scn's idcas fitted in with the ideologies of Japan or
Nazi Germany.
Economic Commission to Tokyo: Chen Chun-hui, "reconstruction member
of the National Government" and a group forming the All Chine Economic
Commission arrived in Tokyo in July 7 "for the purposc of inspecting war-
time construction projects in Japan" (Domei in English, July 7).
Religious Group to Japan: A group of 10 Chincse Christian students
have arrived in Japan from Nanking, The "guide" of the group is Yasuo
Iguchi, secretary of the Japancsc YMCA in Nanking. "Thc students of the
party arc all members of thc Japanese Language Club of Nanking and the
Japanesc YMCA and are well versed with the Japanese language as well as
things in Japen as e rcsult of their carnest study in the Japanese Language
Club" (Domci in English, July 14).
Warning to Lcsser Officials: Wang Ching-wei sent a message to "all
distr et chiefs of Police, government officials of various departments and
to v:ious quarters...for the purpose of ensuring thc security of the live-
lihoei of Japanes( residents in China." The message as presrnted by a
Jepan se domcstic broadcast on July 5 reviewed instences of Japanese
polic, to Chins and said that "in such a time, the pcople of China must
be fuily cognizant of the present important mission...and must go forward
toward the cnhancement of China's position."
Postal Sorvice Bctwcen Free and Occupicd China: A Jrpenese Vice-chief
of the Postal Teleghaph Department of China Maisijiro Nakamura admitted
with an air of incomprehension that the postal service between Free and
Occupied China was furctioning smoothly, and that "normal postal service
was being maintained ail over China as thbugh mothing wore happmaing."
"Saying thet the xchang is madc at cortain points along the Yellow
River between Nanking and Chungking by postel officials is an open secret,
Nakemura said that war or no war, Chinese are Chincse and there is no
sonse interfering with intcrnal postel scrvice which would go on despite
any form of obstruction. He stated that last year the Chungking postal
authorities, hard pressed by a financial deficit, approached the Nanking
postal authorities proposing a raise in postal rates. Nakamura said that
this is rc'ly going ico far and the Nanking authorities just ignored the
Chunekin" proposal. Hc doscribcd the whole episode as the eighth wonder
of modeeu Uhin. and typicel of Chinese audacity."
This em susuri for several reasons: this is the first time that
the Jepenesc heve  matted intcrcourse with Free China; the write-up of
this Domci dispatch w ows a certain jocular attitudc toward tho situation:

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.99)
-C4-
and the report of this itcm might well serve Japan's purposes in dignifying
the Nanking regime--the propaganda import of this would be that Chungking
almost recognizes the existence of this government in Nanking.
CENTRAL ECONOMIC
Three Yeer Plan: According to MAINICHI dispatch, the three year plan
is "large-scale" and seems to be mostly devoted to waterworks and communioa-
tions (Domei, July 9).
Under a three year plan, the first year will be devoted to repairing
and reinforcement of the embankment along the Grand Canal while in the
second year construction of large embankments along the Wei River and also
around the Hungtze Lake in Kiangsu province will be undertaken. Reinforce-
ment of the Yangtze embankment will be launched in the third year. Upon
completion of the project the water level of Hungtze lake will be elevated,
recleiming approximately seven million acres of land. A 279-kilometer new
canal will be constructed in northern Kiangsu province and 7,O0o square
kilometers of land will be converted into cotton producing areas. The cost
of this project will be 300 million yuan. Swamp lands are to be reclaimed
on the eastern bank of Lake Tai in Kiangsi province to create 45, O00 acres
of arablc land. A waterway will be dredged from Lake Tai to Tienshan
lake and there will be cmbankments "to free the region from the annual
floods which have heretofore swept the area. The Wi river project will
have locks.
Some of the embankments have been destroyed "by retreating Chungking
troops," claims Tokyo.
Roads: Some contemplated highways are: the Nanking-Shanghai road
"which has a special economic significance"; a highway between Nanking and
Tsaowuchen in Chekiang via Shanhsing "regarded as significant for
industrial development of the region"; a highway joining Nanking and
Pengpu in Anhwei province "having a military as well as a political value";
a Shanghai-Kientsi road via Hangchow; a Nanking-Pahsien road via Wuku;
the Pukow-Wopi road via Wukiang; and the Pukow Weiyin road. (This is
taken from the same source as above, Domei in English, July 9.)
Chen Chun-hui, Minister of Construction, in Tokyo said the plan is
bcing pushed vigorously (Domei in English, July 9).
Banks: The four banks which were placed under the Central Rescrve
Bank will shortly commence activities "as pure commorcial banks." The
Directors of the banks "have informally been decided on." The head offices
will be located in Shanghei with branch offices wherever necessary. (For
previous mention .of these banks see Radio Report, No. 23, p. E6).
Taxation: Expansion of the budget of the puppets will be necessary
because of the "growing number of Chungking troops going over to the
Nanking government" reports Transocean quoting Chou Fu-hai. Chou quoted
by YOMIURI HOCHY said thet land taxes constitute the main source of
revenuc for provincial finance, Any tax increase for the government's
needs will follow the policy of not affecting commodity prices, reported
Dome1 in English, July 15.

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.99)
- C5 -
Again Chou assures the public that the issuance of bonds to meet war-
time expenditures is not being contemplated "for the time being at least."
Central Reserve Bank: Chou Fu-hai did not give any assurance to
business circles that a curtailment of the issuance of the puppet Central
Reserve Bank notes would. be undertaken. He said that no limit is being set
"but the government will be prudent in their issuance in order to prevent
vicious inflation."
Enemy Property: In the same interview reported above, Chou mentioned
the plan of the puppets to dispose of the property that has been trans-
ferred to them by the Jap nese Army. "The government plans to sell lease
or entrust the management to companies designated by the Government."
Trade Control Association: The Central office of the National Trade
Control Association and the Central Commodity Control Board in the Wuhan
district in Honan, Hupeh, Hunan and Kiangsi announced the opening of a
Wuhan Branch office. "Its function is to control commodities in Wuhan and
to see that the people's living run smoothly and peacefully."
Economic Research Institute: An economic research institute has been
founded by the puppets with Wang Ching-wei as the head. The institute is
eypected to "pursue the comprehensive study of all economic problems for
mapping out various economic policies at the moment when a cancerous impe-
diment in the sound development of the wartime development of the wartime
economy has been eliminated (Shanghai International Settlement)." This
was reported in an English language broadcast to the Americas on July 5).
Cotton: Chungking reports elaborate efforts are being made by the
Japanese to improve cotton production to meet the needs of the Army. "At
Hanshan Central Anhwei province, the enemy has placed large orders for
cotton at a nominal price. In southern Hupeh province, the Japenese have
formed a big cotton corporation at Hohsueh, trading Japanese sugar, cotton,
piece goods, cigarettes, matches and opium for cotton" (Chungking, Centrel
News, June 20).
CENTRAL MILITARY
Chungking is now waging its counter-campaign albeit intermittently
concerning the number of reputed defections to the puppets and Japanese
and the alleged strength of the puppet Army. It does this by explaining
the presence of some former Chungking military offioials in the hands of
the Japanesc, reporting trouble between the puppets and the Japanese
military masters, reporting defections of the puppets to Chungking side
by pointing out the exploitation schemes of the Japanese involved in any
development in Occupicd China, and by showing the oppreesion of the puppets.
Pang Ping-hsun and Sun Ticn-ying: Chungking reported that these two
were captured and that appointment of these men as "Commander-in-chief of
the so-called 24th Group Army" and Vice Commander is not only "ridiculous"
"but also reveels a treacherous plot of the onemy." The Chungking military
spokesman insists that the men were ceptured and that their troops are
still fighting the Japanese and have lately regained 40 towns. The

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.99)
-C6 -
spokesman points out that the puppets hope by this ruse of using these two:
men "to draw to their side the troops formerly under these men." "This
enemy hoax will undoubtedly be futile."
The two men have been appointed, according to Tokyo, to the puppet
"National Military Council" (Domei in English, June 24).
Defections--to Nanking: Japanese sources are still maintaining the
rapid pace of desertions and defections to the side of "peace and order."
The latest reported convert is Ma Chung who was attached to the First Zone's
Headquarters. He is reported to be 62 years old and was once Director of
the Anti-Communist Movement in Shansi province and was also Chairman of
the Shansi Moslem Association (Domei in English, July 6).
An intcrcsting sidelight is provided when Tokyo in describing 300
men of the "former Chungking Indepondent 2Oth Brigade" who are now receiv-
ing training preparatory to actual service, tells that "these men were given
the choice of roturning to thoir farms, opening businesses in thc peace
zone or remaining in the Army." However, as expected, "none of them returned
to their work" and all scemed to have pledged allcgiance to the "National
Government."
Tokyo sums up its reccnt propaganda campaign in these terms: in the
ratio of prisoners and voluntary surrenders to "the number of abandoned
bodies" the ratio in 1941 was 45:100, in 1942 67:100 and for the first six
months of 1943, 138:100.
Two "district Governors" Nieh Shih-ching of Changchen and Tien Hs1-
an of Changtze, both of North Shansi province have joined the puppets
with 2000 men, reports Transocean on June 21.
Defrctions--to Chungking: Chungking claims are more modest in the
number of puppet troops that have turned ageinst the Japanese. A unit
stationed in Chaoan, eastern Kwangtung joined the Chinese and brought with
them their equipment. Loyalty and patriotism were the reasons given for
the return to Frec China side (Chungking in English, July 1).
An attempted defection that scemed to have been nipped by the
Nipponese, was reported by Chungking in English to North America on June 28.
The revolt of this division seems to be in Chekiang.
Manpower Exploitation Scheme: Chungking reports a Japanese schemo for
recruiting ablc-bodied Chinese as cannon-fodder as well as exploiting
Chinese economic resources.
It secms that the recruiting would be done under the name of the
Nanking puppet government, under whom training will be given. "In some
districts in Hupeh and Fukien province, the Japanese occupation authorities
have started to draft Chinese students for military service. At Yingcheng.
Suihsien in Central Hupeh. all boys of military age have been called up
and organized into 'Locel Self-Defense Corps,' They are now undergoing.
compulsory training end will be sent to the front when needed, To fore-
stall desertion the Japenese require each new recruit to secure a guarantee

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.97)
- C7 -
from the chicf of his district. School children undor the military age
are: orgenized into separate units called the 'Huang Erh Tuan' (Imperial
Children's Corps). In Amoy, Fukicn's premicr seaport, compulsory training
is bcing enforced in all Chincsc schools" (Chungking, Central News in
English, June 20).
Lotting by the rupocts: Chungking reports that the puppet troops
ore looting, with the approval of their Japanese masters. From this Chung-
king broadcast in Cantonese to North America on July 15, it can not be said
wh ther Chungking means that the puppets were driven to it by their
Jopanese masters or wh ther they lootcd on thoir own accord, with tacit
Jep nesc permission, It would sccm that the puppet troops are the ones
that arc the offenders and "thc (peopl ) are waiting...to strike back."
"Provocateurs in the Poace Arcas": Japan accuses the Chungking Govern-
ment of sonding in "provoceteurs" to the peace arcas like Shanghei. As an
xampl the Japanese domrstic radio announcces the statistics of the
Shanghai gendarmoris thet show that a largc group has bren scized. The
figures "in the past month" (another broadcnst reported thcse figures "in
the past 12 months") reach more than 2700 persons, of which "four are
Lt. Gen rals, 1l are high officors and 200 are officcrs"; the things seized
amount to 240 riflcs, 180 pistols, 400 hend grenades, (...?) 1and mines and
"misccllancous explosives." Tokyo considers these as "obstructing thc pro-
gross of thc political strength of the National Government of China"
(Japanese domestic broadcest, July 5).
Officers Trnining School: The graduetion ceremony of the fifth class
of the "Central Military Officcrs Treining School" was held on July 1.
Bofore the ceremony, a mock bettle was staged (Domei in English, July 1).
Modical Supplies for the Puppcts: The Japanose Army in China will
donato medical supplies to the puppets in apprcciation for their efforts.
"Formally the donation consists, in nart, of thc Japanesc Governmont's loan
of 300 million yen to the National Government of China but actually it
will be made without compensation to the latter. (No other mention has
been mado of this loan, and it is not known whether a recent or an old one.)
The medical supplies will consist of "approximately 500 items" including
stcthoscopes, thermometcrs and microscopes" as well as sevcrel hundred
pieces of votorinary medicinel equipment. No mention is made as to the
origin of the equipment, whether from Japan or seized from various places
in China.
Gliders: Threc gliders were presented by "The Committee for the New
Movemont by MAINICHI SHIMBUN" to Wang Ching-wei. The gliders were named
Chingnien, Hsinghsu and Paoya (Dome1 in English, June 29).
CHU SHEN--WANG KEH-MIN
Chu Shen: Chu Shen, puppot heed of the North China Politicel Affairs
Commission, died on July 3 of jaundice, Hc hed been sick "since June 27."
The biography of Chu is as follows: Ho was born in Yungohing, Hopeh
province end went to Japan in 1896 where'he was in high school and the law
department of Tokyo University. Ho graduatcd from the University in 1912.

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.99)
一 C8-
Returning to China,he entered the legislative bureau and served as "chief
procurator of the Metropolitan High Procurate in 1913 and later became a
member of the Chief Procurate of the Supreme Court. In 1919 he became
Minister of Justice in Tuan Chi-jui's cabinet and in the following year be-
came Minister of the Interior in the "Chin Hu-hsun cabinet." He became
Prime Ministor with the backing of the Anfu clique, but with the downfall
of the Anfu clique, he fled to the Japanese conccssion in Ticntsin."
In 1924 he was Inspector-General of Police under Tuan Chi-jui's gavern-
ment but "within less than a year retired to enter tho business world, be-
coming Vice-president of the Peking Electric Light Company." Upon the
outbreak of the "China Affair" he became Minister of Justice in the
"Provisional Government of North China." In 194o he became President of
tho'North China Electric Industry Company and also a member of the puppet
Contral Political Council and of the North China Political Council. On
February 8, 1943, he was appointed to the chairmanship of the North China
puppet group. (This biography is taken from Domei transmitting in English,
July 4).
Wang Keh-min: Immediately after the announcement of Chu Shen's
death, an acting chairman was appointed by the North China puppets and'a
pormanent chairman was appointed by the Central China puppets. An extra-
ordinary mooting 'of the Commission was held in Peiping and Wang Shih-ching
was appointed "acting chairman pending the appointment of Chu's successor
by the National Government." The National Government appointed Wang Keh-
min as the new chairman reported tho same Domei dispatch on July 3.
Wang Keh-min was born in Chekiang province and first went into the
diplomatic service when he was appointed the advisor to a group of Chinese
students studying in Japan. Later he was the counselor of the Embassy in
Tokyo. After serving in France, he was appointed the President of the
Bank of China and served as "Home Minister from 1917 to 1918 in the Wang
Tsu-liu cabinet." He was a member of the Hopei-Chahar Political Council
and assumed the chairmanship of the North China puppets after the outbreak
of "the China Incident." Upon the advent of the "National Government" at
Nanking, when the name of the North China puppet group was changed he
was still the chairman until June 1939 when "he resigned in favor of Wang
I-tang." It seems that he has been the heed of the North China "advisory
council" to the puppet council since. Recently he has been in "Manchukuo"
and in Nanking a short time ago (Domei in English, July 4).
He is now appointed to the chairmanship of the Hsin Min Hui and in
an "instructive address" pointed out "the importance of the Hsin Min
Society as the leading organization of the people of North China." The
official investiture ceremony was to be held on July 20 (Japanese domestic
broadcast, July 5).
On July 12 he left for Nanking by plane "to r port his assumption of
office to President Wang Ching-wei" announced the North China :information
bureau. Wang Shih-ching will be acting chairman in Wang Keh-min's absence.
A Japanese domestic broadcast on July 5 says with a Hsinking dateline
that Wang Keh-min is "expected...(to) devote most of his effort on the
promotion of the political and economic collaboration between Manchukuo
and North China." There has been no monitored comment from the Central
puppets on his assumption of the new post even though he is now in Nanking.

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.98)
- C9-
NORTH AND CENTRAL PUPPET RELATIONS
Wang Keh-min Appointment: There is no evidence that Wang Keh-min's
appointment to the head of the Northern puppet group is an indication of
any growing control of Wang thing-we1 over the N rth. Nor is there any
indicetion that this appointhent is the one roferred to in Wang Ching-
w i's press interview with the North China newspapermen in which he spoke
of "rumors" concerning personnel changes. The statement was reported by
the Japanese radio on June 25 whale:Chu: Shen was reported to have gotten
sick on June 27. Thus it" would seem that Wang Ching-wei's statement did
not refer to Wang Keh-min.
Evidence of the lack of enthusiasm of the Central puppets may be.
seen in the absence of any comment regarding the appointment of Wang
Keh-min. The announcement as reported by Japanese sources shows only
North Chinese and their Japanese masters extolling him while the Central
puppets remained silent. In fact the announcement itself came from North
China relaying the statement that Nanking made the appointment.
Another indication that Wang Keh-min was not chosen by Wang Ching-
wei for his loyalty is seen in the background of Wang Keh-min. He has
always been a North China puppet--in fact one of the earliest that the
Japanese entrusted with a puppet government. His activities prior to the
advent of Wang Ching-wei and his subsequent removal would seem to indicate
that Wang Keh-min had no particular sympathy in the Central puppet camp.
Wang Keh-min Trip to Nanking: After Wang Keh-min's appointment to
his post, he started off on a trip to Nanking. There he'attended "an
extraordihary session of the Central Political Council" called by Wang
Ching-wei where the leaders "exchanged free opinions regarding the
political and economic policies to be pursued by the government". (Tokyo
In English to the Americas, July 15). Right after this Wang Ching-wei
called a meeting of the puppet "Supreme National Defense: Council: under
his ohairmanship."
Other reasons for his trip are given by.Transocean on July 15. This
German agency reports that Wang Keh-min will report on the situation in
North China "especially on the economic distress there." "He will have
.a, conference: also with Chinese-Japanese economists an exchange. of goods
: between: North and: Central China."
Credit Agreement: A credit agreement will shortly' be signed between
the puppet banks:of Central and North China--the Central Reserve Bank of
China and the Foderal Reserve Bank of North China. This statement is
attributed to Matsutaro Kimura, the Japanese "advisor" to the CRB in the
MAINFCHI upon:"his return from Tokyo after consultation with quarters
concerned" (Domei in English, July 9).
A formal agreement will soon be signed, establishing a mutual credit
system where "the "settloment of balances will be made in Tokyo, to which
the authorities concerned gave consent." The significance of the move is
reported as followd:  "The establishment of the credit eystem is expected
to expedite the movement of foodstuffs from Central China to North China

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.99)
C10
which in turn will enable North China to increase its important commodity
supply to Central China and Japan." It cannot yet be ascertained whether
this coming agreement is part of the results of the negotiations concern-
ing the interchange of goods about which there has beeh much talk on the
Japenese radios. It would seem related, since it gives Tokyo a close
surveillance over the movement of goods and commerce.
Northern Branch Office in Nanking: The establishment of a branch
office in Nanking by the North China puppets "to onsure still closer
contact with the National Government" is reported by Transocean on June
30 within a context of "anti-Communist activity" in North China. It would
seem that the branch office reported in the previous issue of the RADIO
REPORT will have more than economic functions. This may be related to
the tour of "Pacification officials" from North China who are inspecting
the "peace zones" in Central China. "Anti-Communist" activities have been
emphasized more by North China than Central China puppets. The real fact
of more Chinese Conmunists in North than in South China does not explain
this difference complately since quite a bit of the opposition to Japanese
activities is always attributed to "Communists."
NORTH CHINA
Foodstuffs: Weng Keh-min as chairman of the "North China Commodity
Price Adjustment Committce" said that the good harvest which is expected
will help solve the food problems. There are three factors in North
China's role as a "supply base" for the war: "lational reduction of
prices, developmcnt of industrial resources and the proper control of
comnodities including foodstuffs." Progress is stated due to the aid of
Japan (Tokyo in English to the Americas, July 1l). A Japanese domestic
broadcast reports that Wang said that "stridcs would bo resolutely taken
toward the scttlement of the foodstuffs problem" (July 1l). Japan will
extend further aid to the puppets: "In the past Japan has not begrudged
full coopcration with the Commodity Prices measures and other measures
of the North China Political Affairs Commission. However. Japan intends
to further strengthen Japan's cooperation in all fields and thereby
respond to the enthusiasm."
Chungking forthrightly claims that "trree are indications that.Japanese
forces in North China arc embarking on another foraging expedition, this
time for wheat, as the harvest season is.approaching" (June 16).
Cotton: Failure of the Japanese exploitation scheme as far as cotton
is concerned is reported by Chungking Central News on July 9. A reporter
who has been to the North said that "although cotton was planted in
extensive areas in Shansi and Honan, lack of rains affected the crop which
even in the most fertile areas was only, 50% of that expected; in ereas
near Peiping, only 20% to 40%. In other parts of Hopei and Shantung,
cultivation was made impossible due to the drought.  The total cotton
production for the present year is less than 50% what the Japanese expected."
Irrigation: Completion of another series of irrigation works is
announced in Hopei province. It will draw water from the Su canal to
paddy fields in the area around Lutei on the Peiping Shahaikwan railway.

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.99)
- C11 -
The plan is to have well irrigated fields in this area to the extent of
2,Oo0. chobu and thus contribute to the food supply.
The system was constructed at a cost of 1,500,000 yen and employed
50,000 workers. "It has pumping installation in each of. 27 prefectures
including Chaochuang, Peijun, Nanjun and Tsaoku." The ceremonies around
the opening of the system were held on June 27 at Tsaokuhsiang and
Nanhohsien in Hopei province. This seems to be one of the results of
the second year of a five year project of the "Chunliangcheng Rice
Polishing Company" (Domei in English, June 28).
Inspection Party to Japan: Local administrators of Hopei province
have travelled to Japan to "study the industrial and cultural situation
and the organization of the nation" (Tokyo in French to French Indo-China,
July 4). The party of fifteen is headed by "Chin Hsi-min, magistrate of
Nanhoshieng in Hopei province. This magistrate is reported to have said
that "the Chungking regime in frantic efforts to deceive important
Chinesc has been spreading false propaganda with reports claiming the
degeneration of Japan's economic power as well as Chungking's victory
over Japan within two years." The inspection party is expected'to return
homo "to describe Nippon" thus blasting all of Chungking's claims (Domei
in English, July 4). They will also study the "neighborhood associations"
of Japan in order to improve a similar association in North China as well
as other parts of the continent."
Taiyuan: This city in Shansi has had a peculiar status in occupied
North China. Former radio materials scem to indicate a hoavy concentra-
tion of Japanese here. Further indications: a college whero a class will
be "exclusively in Japanese" is to be opened in the middle of August; some
residents of the city, mostly Japanose and some Chinese, contributed
133,000 yuan to the Japanesc Navy to be used for the constructing of
warships (Domei in Spanish, July 5; Hsinking in English, July 16).
SHANGHAI
Banking: New regulations were announced for small banks in Shanghai.
The regulations provide for registration and a provision that banks must
have a capital of at least six million yuan. "Banks which are unable to
meet this provision within six months will have to close" (Domei in
Spanish, July 11).
Shanghai Stock Exchange: The stock exchange will reopen on August 1.
The cepital of the e xchange "will be raised from one million two hundred
thousand yuan of the old legal tender to twenty million of the Central
Reserve Bank notes" (Tokyo in English to the Americas, July 1l). Tokyo
broadcasting in Cantonese to China and the South Seas reports the old
currency in terms of "French curroncy."
Pacification Bureau: Chen Kumg no, concurrently Mayor, has been
appointed Director of the Rural Pacification Bureau of the Shanghai
Special Municipality.
Publicity Office: The puppets decided to establish a publicity
office within the Shanghai Special Municipality and appointed Liang Hsiu-yu,

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.99)
-C12-
advisor to the Publicity Minister, .as chief of the new office. The Shanghai
branch of the Publicity Ministry will be abolished.
Press: The editors of "16 important Chinese magazinos" attended a
press meeting "to inaugurate the Federal Association of Shanghai magazines."
"The aim of the associntion is to unify the reviews to cooperate with the
government in the development of China's new culture" (Tokyo in French to
Europe, June 28).
Chungking reports that several newspapers published in Shanghai have
been teken over by the Japanese. It mentions the NORTH CHINA DAILY MAIL,
THE CHINA PRESS. and thO SHANGHAI EVENING POST AND MERGURY. "ThO SHANGHAI
EVENING POST following the outbreak of war continued to operate under
the original American management but.during the summer, the American
management, heded by George N. Bruce was disposed of while the Japanese
under the auspices of the Japanese Army press burcau took over full
control. Bruce was later interned by the Japanese. Also seized on the
first day (after the outbreak of war) was the China Weekly Review edited
by J. B. Powell" (Chungking, Contral News in English, July 12).
Shipbuilders to Japan: A "large number of Chinese experts for
building junks" will go to Japan from Shanghai "in order to assist Japanese
efforts to increase construction of wooden ships." "With the National
Government's approval and support," leading Chinese circles in Shanghai
formed a committee in ordor to recruit and send more labor to Japan
later (Transocean, July 4).
Rice Shortage: Chungking reports a severe rice shortage in the
Shanghai area. The rice shops are now selling the worst grade of rice
to the public. The rice sold is that usually given to chicken, declares
Chungking, being mixed with barley and other grains. Sand and pebbles
are reported mixed in with it. At first, the rice shops were supplied
with rice from the warehouses four times a month, but later it was changed
to three times with the amount of each delivery substantially decreased
in volume. Prices are also going up (Chungking in Cantonese to North
America, July 6).
The food situation is getting so bad that "the courts find themselves
unable to provide daily food rations for prisoners." Terms have been
shortened to relieve the feeding problem (Chungking, Central News, July ll).
Chungking undertakes to analyze the reasons for the rise in prices
during Jepanese occupation even though the area is located in the "rice
belt" in east China (Chungking Central News in English, July 15).
The rise in prices has been from $14 per picul early in 1939 to
nearly $3000 per picul early in 1943. "The principal underlying factor
is due to the Japanese effort at controlling rice export from growing areas
so that the Japanese authorities may seize any amount required by their
armed foroes in China as well as the starving Japanese back.in the islands.
Lack of bottoms however, has made it impossible for the Japanese to trans-
port rice out of the 'growing areas but the amount required by the armed
forces is still enormous." Chungking reports further that the Chinese
farmers attempting to take rice into Shanghai have been shot by Japanese

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.98)
- C13 -
sentries standing guard. Another reason for the shortage is the complete
absence of Indo-China and Burma rice on the market.
Economic Reconstruction: Pointed advice was given by the Jananese
Minister at Shanghai: "The economic reconstruction of Shanghai can not
be efiected in any real sense unless it is subordinated to that all-pre-
veding aim of reconstructing the GEA, for these two o jectives must
merge as one." This was stated before the "Shanghai Industrial and
Commercial Friendly Association" at its second meeting held on June 23
reported Shanghai's XliHA in English to Australie on June 24.
Industrial Ability Contest: Contests in machine ability will be held
twice a year and the first wi s held on June 15. The purpose is the
"training of Chinese skill'd vorkers in hervy industry in order to
advance themsclves and increase production in their factories." Contests
will be held in welding ability, lathe work and precision tool work.
The first contest was scheduled to be held at the (Hangchow?) plant
of the Centrel China Rallway Company end was sponsored by the Central
China Technical Association. The ten best Chinese welders were selected
from various heavy industriel plants and will demonstrate three kinds
of electric welding. Experts will be the judges of the work done (Domei
in English, June 1l).
Industrial Hospital: A hospital for workers operated on funds
supplied by the factory owners will be founded soon by the "Industrial
Hygiene section of the Industrial and Social Division of the Shanghai
Municipal Council" announced Dr. John Yui. He pointed out that this will
be the first hospital for the exclusive use of the workers of the city.
He said that health clinics had an uphill fight against the opposition
of factory owners, many of whom hed their own medical steffs, "but the
opposition seems to be broken by the (example?) of the Chine Biological
and Chemical Factory which cooperated despite the fact that it (had its
own) nursing staff" (Domei in English, June 14).
Work for Stateless Refugees: Tsutomu Kubota, Director of the State-
less Refugee Bureau announced plans for the creation of a number of
industries for the refugees. It is expected that they will manufacture
"medical instruments and leather articles which will be sold on the market
at fair rates." Others who have jobs outside the prescribed areas will
be given passes, At the beginning of June up to a3s of the people who
were supposed to move into these limited areas have done so and the rest
have been granted prolongations. The quick results were due to the co-
operation of the refugces who formed the "SACRA (Shenghai Ashkenezi
Communal Relief Association)" to give assistance to the authorities end
to the Japanese rrsidents within the designated area, the ghetto, "who
voluntarily offered their residences for the use of the refugees" (Domei
in English, June 9).
Telephonc Service: On May 31, telephone sorvice betweon Shanghai.and
Hankow was opened by the Central China Telecommunications Corporation.

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.97)
- C14 -
Education: Scholarships will be awerded to municipal secondary
schools for Chinçse "cnabling necdy children to obtain threc years course
in junior middle school." "The scholarships take the form of full re-
mission of tuition fees, the frce issue of books and stationery:" 15
scholarships will be awarded (Domei in English, June 12).
Among the subjects t sted, the natural sciences, arithmetic and
Chinesc literature, Japanesc nnd English languages will be on the program
of examination reported Domei in French on June 19. Tokyo broadcasting
in Cantonese to China and the South Soas says that English will be
abolished and that Japanose will be substituted instead (June 19).
Terrorism: Chungking reports that bomb explosions were heard in
Shanghai on Japaneso Navy Day end as a result many persons wero arrested
in tho Intcrnational Concession. (Chungking in Dutch to the South Scas,
June 8).
The closing of many shops in Shenghai was reported by Chungking's
Central News, due to the Japanese demands that these shops buy bonds to
aggregate an amount of ten million yen. "The Japanese arrosted the pro-
prietors of some shops for disobedience" (Juno 13).
Central News also reports that commodity prices have gone up 400
times over those of 1937. There is an acute shortage of fuel and the
streets are litcrally packed with starving people (June 15).

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.98)
- D1 -
MANCHURIA
Despite the aingly super-human efforts being put forth in Manchuria to
insure production in accordance with Japanese imposed standards, ricultural
output is still below the expected fisure and transportation remains a
problem of primary importance.
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
Agriculture: Increases in agricultural production in Manchuria are
necessary to meet the food needs of Japan. Korea nd Formosn. Quotas
must be met even if it means sacrifices for anchurian farmers according
to a Mr. (Mori) quoted by Hsinking in a home service broadcest on July 5.
The broadcast was a summary of discussions held at a conference on
agricultural problems at which the speaker told delegates to the conference
that empty rice end wheat fields should be used for planting buckwhct,
millet, deccan grass and other grains and that donestic use of polish d
rice should be curtailed in order to increase exports. Th: drily rice
ration should be supplemented by unhulled rice. It is estimated that "an
additional 700,000 to 800, 000 koku" of rice could be saved in this
menner. "By this order those who eat rice will have to be contented with
a rather inf rior quality ricc although they will have nothing to worry
about ns to thc quantity they consumo." After stating that the productive
capacity of Japan, Korca and Formosa has bc n reach d (Mori) concludes
"it is acsirous that Manchukuo draw up and oxpcditiously carry out con-
structivc incrcased production plans."
Agriculturel Dcvelopment Sank of Manchukuo: Details of this organiza-
tion, which will start operations on August 1 (sc: RADIO RPORT, No. 24,
July S, 1943, p. D3), were report d by both Tolyo and Hsinking during the
past fortnight. This institution which is designcd to solve the problom of
long torm, low interest loans for farmers is "the finishing touch to the
wartime monctary structure of Manchukuo" according to an English Domci
dispatch from Tokyo on July 9. Establishment of this ncw bank is cxpccted
to result in reorganization of other banking organizations in Menchuria
such s the Yokohama Specie Bank and the Centrel Sont of Manchuric in order
to avoid duplication of efforts.
Contrary to the impression given in the original announcements con-
corning this bank. it will not deal directly with the individunl former in
erranging loans. Rather it will work through the Agricultural Dov lopment
Associations which will in turn make the necessary fi mcial arrang ments
with thc individual fermers (Hsinking. home service, July 12). Howevor,
farmers will be permitted to deposit moncy in sevings aocounts with the
Agricultural Developmont Banks and to purchasc from it "Agricultural
Development Bonds and Agricultural Development Savings Bonds." This is
intended to prevent surplus money in the rural comnunities. "In short...
the ontire finencial activiti:s of the Centrel Hendquirters of the
Agricultural Development Associations end its relationship to tho vorious
local Agricultural Development Associetions will be trensferred to the
newly established Agriculturel Development Bonk and the Central H ndquorters
of the Agricultural Development Association will take the full rosponsibili-
ties in guidance of the marketing affairs of farmers."

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.98)
-D2 -
"Bumper" Crops: They will be harvested in Antung and Kirin provinces
this year as a result of abundant rainfall nd "the all-out offort" of the
farmers and officials. Crop estimates for Antung province as reported by
Hsinking in English to North America on July 17 are as follows: "paddy
ricc is up 140 percent; soya beans, 112 percent; kaoliang, 105 percent;
(Antung) rice, 124 percent; and hemp, 181 percent as compared with the
corr sponding p riod of last year." No further "apprehension" need be
felt concerning crops in Kirin province, "the granary of Manchukuo," says
Hsinking in an English broadcast to the United States on July 12. In fact
an increase in production can be expected as a result of the favorable weather.
Transportation: Two shortages-freight cars and fodder for horscs-
have caused such serious difficulties in internal transportation that con-
ferences were held on each. The conference on cars wes called by the Minis-
try of Transportation and includcd representatives of the Kirin railways.
Fengman railway "and the nation's main and standard (...) transportation as
well as of established railways" (Hsinking home service, July 7). "is 
result of the conference, with the cooperation of the South Mnnchuri~ Roil-
way, established railways and private railways which are not able to manu-
facture reilways cars, will receive the number of rnilway cors needed fron
the South Menchurin Railway Company, and adjustment in railway cars will be
made by giving old railways cars in exchange.
"The repair of railway cars hereafter, it has been decided, will be
carried out according to a uniform plan for repair as fixed by the govern-
ment, end moreover at the same time a decision was renched to revise the
transportotion (...) of established railways and to effect n exchange of
employees with the South Manchuric Railway."
Rotioning of horse fodder: This is to be resorted to in an cffort to
solve the "serious dislocation in supply and demand of small transportation
services" (Hsinking. home service, July 10). The disl cation is reported
to be particularly serious in reas where "repair and construction of public
projects is being cctively carried out." The grent demand for horsedrawn
vehicles has resultcd in an incrense in transportation charges and in the
use of mechanized vehicles.
"In order to remedy this situetion, measures will be taken to exercise
control on the operntion of transportation servicos, the supply and demand
of horse fodder which is the motivating element will be equalized nnd in
addition the control of transportation prices will be carried out both
through the use of more stringent measures and more extensively.... More-
over, strong transportation associations will be established end will
strengthen the control of transportation by exercising direct surveillance.
However, really satisfactory results will be difficult to attain unless the
(...) and other daily necessities are distributed on a priority basis."
Cooperative Shipping Method: By means of this farmers of Manchuria
have achieved a gain in their net profits of 68.04 yen, says Hsinking in 
domestic broadcast of July 10. The system wns first established in 1939 and
last year was expended to cover 30 products according to the broadcast.
Methods for improving the service were discussed at a conference held Jul:
10 at which the following were represented: the Ministry of Agriculture, the
South Manchuria Railway. agriculturnl associntions, agricultural resoerch
institutes and tho Silk Cultivation Coopcrative Association.

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.98)
- D3 -
Transportation problems on & continental scale are to the specific
function of the Asiatic Mainland Railway Transportation Council established
in June at the Soldier's hall in Hsinking (Singapore Domei, June 1,
New Delhi monitoring). "It is recalled thot the bove council hs been
in ugurated to promote coordinated and concentrated operntion of 1l
rilway transport-tion facilities in the sintic continent."
A water route to be built between Mukden nd (Chi I Linko) will
be of great benefit to Manchurian economy says Hsinking in an nglish
brondcrst to the south seas on July 7. Work on the canol is expected
to begin shortly since the preliminary surveys hove been completed.
Takuichi Omure. for 50 years president of the South Manchurie Roil-
way. resigncd on July l4 to be succeeded by Naoto Kobiyama (or Kuriyoma)
president of the Shown Steel Works and a "noted poet" Hsinking in nglish
to the United Statts, July 13).
Industry: Technical collaboration between industries in Japon and
Manchuria will bc increased in the future as port of the det rmined effort
being made to incrense production in the latter. The p rticular fi. ld
in which this collaboration will be incresed is that of duralumin
production. For this purpose the Manchuria Light Metals Company will
set up a Duralumin Production Company which will work with the Sumitomo
ond Kurukawe metal "interests" nd the Kobe Steel Works. The Ponhshihi
Iron and Colliery Company and the Tungpingtao Development Company oro
others which will take part in this program. "The light alloy and special
steel production industries are depending on an electrode which can be
obtained from tar, which is produced as  by-product by the Showa Steel
Works and Penhshihi Iron and Colliery Company end measur's will be
token to encourage tar manufacturing by those companies" (Tokyo, English
Donei, July 14).
Outright transfor of 15 medium and smoll factorics from Japan to
Menchuria has been decided upon ot a scrics of conferences of officials
of both countrics. Hsinking reports in an nglish broadcast to the south
seas on July 5 that a powder mill, wire cables, ice and leather goods
manufacturing establishments will b includod in those transferred.
"Definite promotion of the development of production resources" is
the objective of the newly promulgated industrial c ntrol law for mines
snys Tokyo in a home service broadcast on July 1l. "The law makes
provisions so that mining industry authorities or Ministry authorities
can take necessary measures to permit, command or prohibit the beginn-
ing of operations, or to continue or suspend work in accordance with
the decisions of the Finance and Comnerce Minister when he dcems them
necessary from the standpoint of control."
Resources: Construction of electrical power facilitics and utiliza-
tion of that power when it is made available werc the problems dis-
cussed at the first general assembly for the year of the Manchukuo
Electrical Council held July 1l in Hsinking (Hsinking, home service,
July 11). "The assembly was attended by appropriate officials of the

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.98)
- D4 -
Finance and Commerce Ministry, various other appropriate ministries and
the hydroelectrical power plants construction bureau representing
the government, while President Hirashime of the Manchukuo Electrical
Council'end members of its executive board ttended repres nting the
council. The assembly wes lso ttended by the representatives of the
South Manchurin Roilway Company, (l.ctrical corporation, Kyowe (...)
Compny."
Actual construction work on the Huanjen Hydro-electric power plant
on the Hun river in (Fengtien) province is "progressing smoothly" soys
Tokyo in n nglish Domei disptch of July 9. "Completion of the
temporary damming of the riverside on both banks is to b: started soon
s well s negoti-tions for the purchase of  reservoir or . Work
on the concrete enforcement is expected to comm nce this comin utumn."
A new paper manufacturing compony is to be estoblished in Manchuria
s  subsidinry of the Oji Paper Manufocturing Company of Japon (Tokyo,
English Domei, July 17). The company, which will be copitalized at
20 million yen, will be located t Mongkuli, enst of Chirmussu, where
timber end w-ter resources are reported to be of "suitabl. quality"
and rendy nvailability. "It is understood the Company will cngago in
manufacturing newsprint in quantities nough to not only meet the
Manchukuo demand but also to cxport it to Chinn."
Marshy lond locoted in Tungan nd Sankiang reas on the northerstern
border of Manchuria is to be prepored for agriculturl production "and
other simil-r phases" s ys Tokyo in on nglish Dom i lisp-tch of July
15. A two nd one holf month's survey of the are  hos just been com-
plcted by a port: of experts nd will be followed by  sill  ore
exacting survey b fore, actunl improvement of the land is under taken.
Health and accident measures for the protcction of mine workors
will be the subject of a conference to be held July 20 nd 31 in Hsinking.
The conference will be a round table discussion in which represontatives
of both Japan and Manchurin will prticip tc. Conforers will discuss
such hazards of mining as gas and spontancous combustion in an offort
to eliminato these factors which restrict production.
Idle machinery originnlly intonded for gold mining will be converted
to fluorspar production at (Wolungchuan) says Tokyo in an nglish
broadcast to North America on July 16. This will further increas: the
supply of "cardinal war matcrials" in the GEA soys Tokyo.
Savings of the people of Harbin showedanother incrcnse during the
month of May says Hsinking in an nglish broadcast to the Unitcd States
on July 14. The record figure of 200 million (yuan) "revoals that an
increasing amount of vital apital is being placed at th: disposal of
the government to aid Japnn in prosecuting the war against the nglo-
Saxon powers."

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.98)
- D5 -
MANCHURIA POLITICS
Police: Appliconts for positions as police in Kwantung are b ing
sought says Hsinking in a home service bro dcast of July 4. The principa1
requirement seems to be that pplicants be Japanese, betwcen the ages
of 2l nd 35 nd physically henlthy. They will be examin.d in intermedinte
writing, mothemtics, composition, geography and history.
Stabilization of living conditions of the police throughout Manchuri
is recommended by Chief Yamada of the police force who was quoted by
Hsinking in a home service broadcast on July 1l. Yamad after a tour of
the western and southwestern districts of Manchurir reported that higher
salrrics should b prid nd moral should be improved but that transfers
of governmint personnel should be restrictcd since they are too frequent
t present. Yanada is quoted as believing that long experience as  law
enforcement officinl is not necesserily narrowing. He does not have
much faith in short training courses. Rather, he edvocates systematic
training in all branches of eduinistration.
Race Groups: The Indian Association of Murden has now become a
part of the Indinn Independence Lengue with the formal status of Manchurin
chapter of the League (Hsinking, in English to North America, July 11).
SOCIAL PROGRESS
Population: There are now some 772,131 residents of Hsinting com-
prising 150,269 families says Hsinking in en nglish broadcnst to the
United States on July 15. "Of the 772,131 people countcd, 410,029, more
than half, were males. Of the tota1 566,841 re Manci urians, 127, 755
were Japanese, 26,951 Korcans and 584 nationals of other countries.
It was disclosed that the population of the capital increased by
16,227 since the cnd of Apri1 this year."
War Nerves: "An increase among those who listen to the redio with
their windows open" has accompani d the advent of warm weather in Hsinking.
Redio Hsinking, "presuming" that there are people who are bothered by
too-loud radios, requests in a home service broadcast on July.7 that such
listeners keep their rndios turned low in order to void undue strain
on the nerves of others.
MILITARY
Applications for membership in the Army Eagle Squadrons are pouring
in from training schools throughout Manchurin (Hsinking, home service,
July lo). In response to this "honest enthusiasm" the irmy has establish-
ed the Army special pilot cadet system, the Monchukuo Aviation Federa-
tion end the Eagle Squadrons for Manchurian aviators. The broedcast is
apperently intended to counteract rumors that students in Manchurin are
not interested in eir training, for the home audience is told that the
apparent lack of enthusiasm is the result of the fact thet winters are
long and "Manchukuo is not fortunate in any natural circunstances. Hence.
there are not many facilities for student pilots and aviation meterinls
are also short, so that concrete guidance is l"cking."

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.98)
-D6 -
This same theme was contained in a subsequent broadcast (Hsinking
in English to North America, July 12) in which it was reported that
"an ever-increasing number of middle school students throughout the
country are making applications or volunteering to join the Japanesc armed
forces." The students have filed applications for the Japanese Military
cademy, the Army quartermaster corps, the Naval Academy of Japan, the
Meiji Aviation preparatory school "and others."
MONGOLIA
Completion of the Sangchien river dam is expected to increase agricul-
ture production in M ngolia lo-fold. Tokyo reports in an English Domei
disp"tch of July ll.' "Work on the construction of the gigantic irrigation
system, including the dam, drainways, roads and other accompanying facili-
ties, commenced two and one helf years ago with an outley of 30 million
yen."

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.99)
一 E1-
THE NETHERLANDS EASTINDIES
The visit of Premier Tojo and plans for the anti-esponiage week held July
12 to 18 receive the major share of attention on Far East radios during
the fortnight. The spread of malaria in the Makassor region and develop-
ment of a substance for highway construction in which rubber is substituted
for asphalt are also emphasized.
POLITICAL DEVELOPMENTS
The Tojo Visit: The Premier arrived in Batavia in the morning of
July 7 where he was welcomed by "Supreme Comnander Harada and a lar e
number of locel military leaders, government officials and civilians and...
the joyful cheers of the crowds of native inhabitants who were lined along
the road" (Tokyo, home service, July 12). Following a conference with
Commander Harada on military and administrative matters, Tojo,attended a
rally of 100,O00 Indonesians held at the Gunbil plaza in Batavia. In
addressing the assembled crowd Tojo reiterated his "imperishable conviction
of certain victory" for Japan, described his "happiness" in visiting the
southern regions and witnessing for himself the cooperation extended by the
natives of these areas (Tokyo, home service, July l2). Ir Soekarno, chair-
man of "Poetera," also spoke at the rally and, as the representative of
the entire 50 million Javanese, pledged "the strong resolve...for positively
cooperating with Hippon" (Tokyo. English Domei, July 12). Similar senti-
ments of happiness and pledges of cooperation were expressed by four
native rajas--of Solo, Mangkoe, Negoro, Djokjo and Paloealaman--after on
interview with the Premier.
Anti-Esptanage Week: July 12 to 18 was set nside as a period of
emphasis on counter-espionage work in the Celebes. Elaborate schedules of
activities were announced for each dey. These activities consisted largely
of speeches by native and Japanese leaders, the singing of songs by students
and dropping of pamphlets in Makassar. As reported by Makassar to Indonesia
on July 6 the program was to be as follows: On the first day employees of
"Naishoko) "will go around in cars with pamphlets concerning how to disable
spies in their work with Makassar as the area." Other organizetions were to
distribute similar pamphlets. Propaganda material in speeches and pamphlets
was to be distributed on the second day by students and employees of speci-
fied firms who were stationed throughout the city. The third day's program
consisted of motion pictures "about the rising sun and the GA war which
will help fight the spies." Speeches, each 70 minutes long, were to be
given by two officials of the Japanese military administration. Programs
for the subsequent days followed the same pattern with the inclusien of
songs by students. But more pamphlets were dropped, pictures shown and long
speeches given all of which showed the necessity of discounting "whisper
ing campaigns and false rumors" and of destroying the spie "knorm to be
·living in the city."
Governors' Conference: Instructions given to Harada by Tojo filtered
down to provincial governors at a conference held July 12 in Batavia. The
meeting was attended by high military and civil officials, chiefs of all
bureaus and departments and governors of all provinges. This wns the second

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.98)
一 E2 -
such conference in Batavia since Japanese occupation of Java. The usual
"frank views" were exchanged with reference to local problems and the
delegates were informed of the decisions reached at the conference of
administrative officials for the occupied regions held recently in Tokyo.
A similar two-day conference was held in Bukit Tinggi on July 13 and
14 at which local officials were informed of the policies to be followed
in the future in developing the self sufficiency of the area along ilitary
and economic lines. An official of the military administration was inter-
viewed by the press just prior to the conference, says Tokyo in an English
Domei dispatch on July 14 and reported that "the most important task before
the military administration" is the improvement of local defenses. im rove-
ment of self-sufficiency, increased production of war goods and abiliza-
tion of the peoplc's livelihood." This official further report hat
efforts are being made to effect closer working relations betwoI ne
natives and the Japanese administrative staff, to bring the Indonesians
into the administrative picture and to maintain the religious and social
customs of the people.
As a result of the conference Tokyo reported in a Jepanese lan uage
broadcast to North America on July 16 that the following decision had. been
reached: "In initial moves in order to realize the political participation
of the local inhabitants, based upon the Tojo declaration, it has been
decided as a special new palicy to establish an inquiry organ in each
province and in addition a plan to let the local inhabitants participate
in military administration activities by using capable individuals exten-
sively.n
Inspection Tour: A group of some 20 "prominent Djawanese officials"
is to be sent to Japan for a two weeks inspection trip says Tokyo in an
English Domei dispatch of July 13. The group is being selected from govern-
ment workers, educators and "literati."
A similar group of 13 representatives of the various sections of
Sumatra was reported to be in Singapore on July 16 en route to Tokyo.
The
party is expected to stay in Japan proper for two months. (Tokyo in
English to North America, July 1s).
Refugee Colony: Living accommodations for families of Indonesian
soldiers killed in the Java campaign will be provided free of charge by
the "generous Japn ese military administration" when a group of 24 housing
units is completed near Soerabaya. Work on the project has been under way
since last May but it is to  completed "soon" says Tokyo in an English
Domei dispatch of July 3. "Each apartment will house 24 families. The
colony, which is equipped with every living facility as well as a vocational
training institute, will be free of charge.... About 1600 refugees at
first will be housed. The municipal office so far has been helping refugees
by providing free lodgings...and community kitchens for freo use at present."

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.98)
- E3 -
INDONESIAN ECONOMY
Resources: Development of mining, agricultural and marine resources
of the Celebes area is to be the function of the scientific institute
opened July 7 in Makassar says Tokyo in a French broadcast to Indo-China
on July 7. The institute, which will be headed by e Dr. Ichiro Tanabe,
will also "re-edit" the knowledge of scientists who have done previous
research in the area. Dr. Tanabe is quoted in a domestic broadcast from
Tokyo on July 16 in which he statesthat by bringing superior Japanese
techniques to the southern regions, Japen will be able to develop the
abundant material resources of the area, "those which the Dutch could not
develop."
A shortage of asphalt and a surplus of rubber will both be eliminated
by the extensive use of a newly developed paving material made of rubber
says Tokyo in an English Domei dispatch on July ll. The process was dis-
covered by the East Coast Agriculture Experimental station of Sumatra.
"The paving material is manufactured by first heating a mixture of palm
oil and lime at 150 degrees Fahrenheit, adding chemically treated rubber
scrap and again employing heat for two hours. The solution then is poured
out over a rock bed end allowed to cool, forming a durable pavement."
Tests have proved that the new substance is equal to, and even superior
in some instances to, asphalt according to the report, especially in wear-
ing and "adhesive qualities."
A substitute for previously imported woolen cloth has been discovered
at the Ched Bogol Agricultural Experimental Station near Batavia says Tokyo
in an English Domei dispatch of July 8. The substitute fabric which is
reported to be superior to pure woolen goods in its wearing, washing and
dyeing qualities is produced by the "Attucus Ricini" specie of silkworm
which feeds on castor bean leaves. The silkworm works so rapidly that the
cocoon may be unwound 15 days after it is started. Raising.of the worms
on an industrial scale will be begun "immediately."
Button demands of the entire GEA will be supplied when arrangements
are completed for large scale collection of sea shells in the Makassar
region (Tokyo, English Domei, July 6). "According to present plans the
shells will not be shipped to Japan as hitherto but roughly shaped into
buttons on the spot and then finished in Japan."
”、
Production and sale of salt in west Borneo is to be the function of
the newly organized Salt Production Sales Association (Tokyo, English Domei,
July l4). Present efficiency in production surpasses that of former times
but will be still further improved by the use of Japanese technigues in the
salt fields at Singkawang. "Various other measures have also. been taken to
encourage production including tex exemption for salt, enforcement of
officiel salt prices and granting subsidies to salt producers." Emphasis
is also being placed on salt production in the Celebes where a new salt
field has been partially completed near Makassar. The product of this new
field when combined with that of previously operated fields will be suf-
ficient to meet the demands of the entire southern regions (Singapore,
Domei July 12).

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.99)
-E4-
Improved breeding of horses will be undertaken by the military admini-
stration in Sumatra according to a Singapore Domei dispatch of July 1. Both
the quantity and the quality of horses are to be improved as a result of
the contemplated drive.
Manufacture of sake from the "stamate flower of the sago palm" is
how under way in Makassar (Tokyo, English Domei, July 9). The synthetic
beverage is reported to be of "good quality" since the sago palm "contains
between 25 and 45 percent alcohol." "The spokesman of one large brewery
said his firm is planning manufacture of sago palm sake in quantities not
only for export to Japan but to other markets' of the south seas where
Japanese communities are sure to increase."
Harvesting of cotton planted last October on the eastern coast of
Java is now under way (Batavia in English to North America, July 12). The
crop will be sold to. the military administration for export.. "Since the
cotton plants originating from Taiwan and Chosen are qualitatively inferior
to those of Cambodia the agricultural experimental station is studying
ways and means of improving this brand."
. New Guinea: Economic activities on this island are keeping pace with
the successful military operations there, says Tokyo in English to the
Americas on July 8. "Great efforts are also being thrown into mining,
farming, fishing and chemical manufacturing industries.... Initial experi-
ments have already shown that rice cultivation in the island, on a large
scale, is possible, even without fertilizer due to richness of soil and
favorable weather."
Finance: Drastic price control measures enforced by the military
administration in Java "nipped in the bud" any tendence toward inflation
after the arrival. of the Japanese, says Tokyo in English to North America
on July l2. Success.of this policy is proved by the "slight deflationary
tendency" which developed following the introduction of military currency
and by the fact that "the living of the people is stabilized to the
satisfaction of all. (It may also be related to hoarding of Dutch guilders
by the Indonesians, although this is not mentionod by Tokyo.)
Labor: Additional facilities for training agricultural labor will be
provided with the epening of a new school at Magelang. The school will
offer a three-year training program for 30 students from the middle of
August.
"Leaders for industrial development" in all the southern, regions are
now being trained at the school conducted by the Southern Regions Society
in Tokyo. The first group of students will complete the nine-months
course in August and will then be sent to the Philippines, Java and
Sumatra where they will attempt to bring up to deto the. "primitive methods
of native farmers," according to an English broadcast from Batavia to North
America on July 12.
Another new organization has been set up in Indongsia to deal with
labor problems. This is the Labor Association organized by a group of
Japanese industrialists which will arrenge emigration of surplus Javanese
labor to other areas.

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.99)
-E5-
Communications: Telegraphic communications between Makassar and
Manila will be started soon, says a Singapore Domei dispatch of July 10
received in New Delhi. "Telephone services between Makassar and Keijo in
Chosen, Dairen in Kwantung province and Hsinking in Manchukuo are also being
contemplated."
Water Supply: Residents of Bandjermasin are now being supplied with
filtered water from the Modjoto Era river says Hsinking in an English broad-
cast to the United States on July 14. "The construction of proper water
lines to the general public as well as to government and (reservational)
quarters is expected to start on July 20 and regular distribution of water
will begin before the dry season reaches its. height."
SOCIAL PROBLEMS
Health: Malaria is now "raging" in the central Celebes says Tokyo
in a home service broadcast on June 28. The month of July has been set
aside for a campaign to eliminate the fever. Mosquito breeding areas are
being destroyed and malaria patients treated. In addition a Tropical
Disease Research Institute will be established in Makassar under direction
of Dr. Oshiro, graduate of the Tohoku Imperial University medical depart-
ment and "well known authority on dengue fever" (Tokyo, English Domei,
July 8).
Use of vitamin C in the treatment of diabetes is reported by Tokyo in
an English Domei dispatch of July l4. This trcatment was discovered by an
Indonesian chemist, Soctarman, who also perfected a method for manufactur-
ing a romedy for diabetes containing the vitamin.
Morning calisthenics, a traditional feature of Japanese home trans-
missions will now be broadcast from Makassar according to a June 30 broad-
cast from that station. Indonesians are urged to gather in groups to re-
ceive the greatest benefit from the excrcises. This is presumably part of
the campaign to reduce the prevalence of tuberculosis which was reported
to be extensive in the Celebes last spring.
Education: Selected students from Borneo, Bali and the Celebes are
now gathering in Makassar prior to their departure for Japan for a period
of study, says Batavia in an English broadcast to the United States on
July 12.
Technical training for agricultural and industrial workers will be
provided at schools to be established at Balikpapan and Samarinda (Toky•
English Domei, July 5). "Technical and agricultural school students will
utilize the islands natural resources so that upon graduation they will be
able to use Borneo's resources for the development of the country."
Alborto Kolon: This Dutch physicien is still residing on the island
of We off the coast of Sumatre, says Tokyo in an English Domei dispatch of
July 13. Prior to the war Kolon was in charge of the hospital for the
insane which received patients from Sumatra and in addition provided
medical attention for the "8,000 natives " on the island.

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.97)
一E6 ~
Help for the Censors! Residents of the Celebes have been asked to dis-
continue the practicc of sealing their letters and "postbladen" (a combina-
tion letter and envelope) in order to assist the censor, says Makassar in
a domustic broadcest on July 3.
MILITARY
Inspection Tour: Field Marshal Count Hisaichi Terauchi, commander of
all Japanese forces in the south, made an inspection tour of Padang, Medan
nd Koeta Radja during the last week in June according to a French broad-
cast from Tokyo to Indo-China on July 4.
The spirits of Japancse soldiers killed in the Soerabaya campaign
were honored by the construction of a road from Soerabayn to the cemetery
in which they are buried (Tokyo in English to the Americas, July 15).
"Native inhabitants including boy and girl (students) numbering more than
1,Ooo volunteered to offer their labor service for the construction work."
The road, three. meters wide and seven meters long, was completed in a
singlc day.

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.99)
- F1 -
THE
PHILIPPINEISLANDS
Premier Tojo's second visit to the Philippines allegedly reflects the "secure
and enviable position" which the Filipino people occupy in his heart and
in the hearts of the Japanese, and is said to have brought "fresh encour-
agement" to 18 million Filipinos who are suddenly brought face to face
with "full independence" (Domei, July 12).
Confidence is further tolstered at this hour of supreme challenge by
the dramatic rise of the Preparatory Committee for Philippines Independence
which has occupied the center of the Philippines stage for the past month.
This body is actually engaged in drafting a constitution "that fits the
time in which we live" (Camilo Osias Manila, June 24). However, its title
and dramatization suggest that it is intended to solve all problems
connected with independence. Thus all.the organs of the Executive Com-
mission have been "placed at its disposal" by Executive Order of June 22
and Premier Tojo himself increased the prestige of the new architects of
Philippines independence by calling in person upon the Committee and com-
mencing its progress (Tokyo, July 12).
Jose P. Laurel, Commissioner of the Interior and President of the
Independence Committee, expressed the hope that it will succeed in evolving
a plan of government for the New Philippines "that will reflect popular
will and advance the interests of the nation and also meet the many difficult
problems that will confront our new nation as an intogral part of the Co-
prosperity Sphere of Greater East Asia" (Manila, June 30). He further
asserted that the fundamental policy of the Committee in laying the founda-
tions for Philippine's independence will be to secure the well-being of the
Filipinos (Tokyo, July 6).
Meanwhile the real arbiters of Philippines fate have temporarily with-
drawn from the limelight. A single brief dispatch reveals that the military
administration held a two-day confercnce of.its various branch chiefs to
discuss "vital problems" accompanying the beginning of preparations for
Philippine independence and "various measures" related to the strengthening
of the military administration (Domei, July 13, monitored by New Delhi).
POLITICAL
Committee for the Preparation of Philippines Independence: Instructions
for the creation of this body were issued direct from Tokyo to Lieut.
General Kuroda who passed them on to tho Kalibap1 National Convention,
then in scssion in Manila. The business of selecting 20 persons as "repre-
sentativos of the people of the Philippines" progressed smoothly and
"without a hitch." A nominating committee of five persons was unanimously
chosen by the convention on. June 18. The following day at the giant rally
hold in Luneta Park in gratitude for Premier Tojo's latest promise of
independencc, the names of the mombors of the Independonce Committee were
announced by Benigno Aquino, Director General of the Kalibapi, and allegedly
received the "adherence" of the multitude. In broadoasting the ontire pro-
coodings of the rally to the Japanese Broadoesting Corporation in Tokyo,
the announcer twiee remarked, "The announcement of these names 1: forbidden
yet, so please bear this in mind."

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.99)
-F2 -
On June 20 the Japanese expeditionary forces in the Philippines
announced that the members of the Committee had been formally appointed by
Lieut. General Shigenori Kuroda upon the unanimous recommendation of the
Kalibapi (Domei, June 20). Jose Laurel, Commissioner of the Interior, heads
the Committee, while the first Vice-President is Ramon Avancena, former
Chief Justice and at present a member of the Council of State and Superior
Judge of the Philippines High Court. Benigno Aquino, Director General of
the Kalibapi has been named second Vice-President. The other members of
the Committee are: Jorge B. Vargas, Chairman of the Executive Commission;
Antonio De Las Alas, Commissioner of Finance; Teofilo R. Sison, Commissioner
of Justice; Rafael Alunan, Commissioner of Agriculture; Claro M. Recto,
Commissioner of Health and Public Welfare; Quintin Paredes, Commissioner
of Public Works andCommunications; Jose Yulo, Chief Justice of the Supreme
Court, General Emilio Aguinaldo; Miguel Unson, member of the Council of
State; Camilo Osias, Assistant Director General of the Kalibapi; Vicente
Madrigal, Member of the Council of State; Manuel C. Briones; Emiliano
Tirona, Director of the Bureau of Employment; Manuel Roxas; Pedro Sabido,
Manager of the Abaca Corporation; Sultan Alaoya Alsonto Saramain; and
Melicio Arranz, former Senator.
These twenty men "represent" all the important linguistic groups and
the three regional divisions of the Philippines--Luzan, Visaya and Mindanao.
Mssrs. Laurel, Recto, and Roxas were among those who drafted the Common-
wealth Constitution of 1935, a fact which is said to prove that the past
political experience of the Filipino people will be drawn upon in drafting
the new constitution. However, the presence in the Committee of Vargas,
Laurel, and Aquino is said to "guarantee" that the experience of the past
will be "suitably adapted" to the necds of the New Order (Domei, July 12).
(Arsenio) Sebastian, judge of the court of the first instance, has been
selected as the chief secretary of the Commission (Manila, June 23).
The members of the Independence Committee unanimously voted for the
organization of six sub-committeas and agreed to leave the selection of their
chairmen and members to tho discretion of Commissioner Laurel (Domei,
June 30). The Constitution Drafting Committee will be headed by Commissioner
Laurel himself and will be responsible for the actual drafting of the
constitution, incorporating therein the recommendations of the other
committees. It is noteworthy that its members include all three of the
men who aro expected to see that past experience is suitably adapted to
the requirements of the New Order.
The six different committees with their rospective chairmen and members
are the following!
Administrative Department Committees: Commissioner Rafael R. Alunan,
Chairman; Magistrate Manuel C. Briones, Manuel Roxas, Suftan Saramain,
Pedro Sabido.
n
Committee of the Legislative Department: Jorge B. Vargasy Chairman;
Rafael Alunan, Camilo Osias, General Emilio Aguinaldo, Vincente Madrigal.
Committee of the Judicial Department: Commissioner Teofilo Sison,
Chairman; Hagistrate Briones, (First Name) (Pirson), Pedro Sabido, and
Commigsioner Antonio De Ies Alas.

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.99)
- F3 -
Committee on Miscellaneous Affairs: Commissioner Quintin Paredes,
Chairman; Canilo Osias, (Name Piron), Miguel Unson, Melicio Arranz.
Committee of Constitution Drafting: Jose P. Laurel, Chairman; Vice-
President Avancena, Benigno S. Aquino, Jorge B. Vargas, Comnissioner Clare
M. Recto, Jose Yulo, Manual Roxas.
Comnittee on Planning and Investigation: Conmissioner Antonio De Las
Alas, Chairnan; Miguel Unson, Melicio Arranz, Rafael R. Alunan, Teofilo
Sison, Quintin Paredes, Canilo Osias, Pedro Sabido, Vincente Madrigal,
Goneral Aguinaldo, Sultan Saramain, Manuel Briones and Emiliano C. Tiron.
The Planning and Investigation Committee is authorized to create all the
necessary comnittees for the adequate accomplishnent of its activities
(Menila, July 6).
Popular Support: "The people owe it to thenselves," urges Canilo
Osias, "to give those public servants of theirs their completo support
and cooperation.... This is no tine to wish (for) what night have been;
this is no time to indulge in dreaming.... These are truly tines for
creative living" (Manila, June 22).
There are indications that the creation of the Independence Connittee
has given risen to considerable discussion of a nture disturbing to the
authorities. Leon Quinto, Mayor of Manila, urges the people not to
"waste their time in idle talk and gossip" and to avoid "unnecessary
disturbances" and adds that if there are any good suggestions with regard
to the present national issue, he is sure the Committee will be willing
to consider them (Manila, July 13). The Mayor also "allayed all fears"
aroused by the "false rumor" that conscription will be the price of
Philippine independence, citing the Director General of the military admini-
stration to the effect that Japan has no need for soldiers from the countries
under her influence, since "Japan has at least 25,000,000 men prepared and
trained to take up arms whenever the Government (thinks it necessery)."
Mr. Quinto concluded with an appeal to "all the guerrillas who still infest
the mountains" and to those who form "a militant insignificant minority"
to cease their efforts to disrupt "this fruitful period of our policital
life" (Manila, July 6).
At about the same time, Hilarion S. Silayan, Director of the Bureau
of Plant Industry, who is being royally wined and dined and otherwise im-
pressed together with other members of the Philippines inspeotion party
which is touring Japan, declares optimistically, "We shall find no dif-
ficulty in our task of convincing our people of the principle of Hakko
Ichiu, because all the past acts of Japan are living proof of her noble
intention" (Dome, July 1).
Nonetheless, Japan's spokesmen in the Philippines are constantly point-
ing to new proofs of Japan's sincerity, while independence in all its glory
and imminence and hallowed by countless generations of martyrs who have
fought and died for it is their favorite theme. The universality of this
appeal is not marred by specific definition of its "abundant blessings" or
of the "obligations" which it entails. There is even a marked decrease
in references to the pre-requisites for independence originally stated by

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.98)
- F4 -
the Direotor General of the military administration, namely. peace and
order, economic self-sufficienoy, and a return to the spirit of Asia.
These requirements are now subordinatod to a single plea, that for unity.
For the most part the Filipinos are being urged simply to "unite"
under the banner of independence. and speakers claim that tho Filipinos
have boen asked to do "little enough" for independenoe, simply to make
thomselves a strong united nation.
According to Benigno Aquino, Director Genoral of the Kalibapi,"...
independence is the only standard beneath which the Wilipino people have
been solidly and unalterably united." However, indications abound that
thoy are not so united by the prosent previow of independonce. Thus Mr.
Aquino adds that the Kalibapi will strive "as far as it is humanly possible"
to marshal into action "tho lethargic olements of the country" sinee it
realizes that this is no time "to hesitate, to doubt, or to waver."
The xistence of doubts and hesitation is further indicated by
Frencisco Icasiano of the Tribune editorial staff who writes on the birth-
day of Jose Rizal, "Rizal would nover ask, 'What independence will they
give us?' Rather he would say, 'Let us put all our might and determination
into the perfoction of this gift whose coming we've awaited for over four
hundred years.'" Tho martyr, ho adds, would never have hoeded "silly pro-
paganda and chatter...about freedom," "The kind of indepondence we'll
got," according to Mr. Icasiano, "1s the kind we desorvo" (Dome1, June 19).
That unity is still to be achieved is further suggested by the Honor-
ablo Melicio Arranz, former Sonator, who remarks that unity requires that
"we firmly rosolve to adjust completely our social and moral standard
(and) our mode of living, and observe a strong national discipline" (Manila,
June 25). The Japanese pattern of this much-streesed "unity" is also re-
vealed by Camilo Osias, Secretary Genoral of the Kalibapi, who declares
that the Junior Kolibapi is intended to produce "like-minded men" (Manila,
June 19).
A certain dissatisfaction with the results of the impact of the promises
of independence on the Filipino people is suggested by the newspapor ASAHI
which expressed the "confidence" that when the joy over Philippine indepen-
dence is "orystallized" the greater obstacles can be overcome (Manila,
June 28).
General Aguinaldo is equally optimistic declaring, "As an independent
people, we oan with happier heart oooperate much better with the Japanese
cmpire" (Manila, June 17). The General sees all troublesome doubts dis-
polled by the light of Japan's rising sun by whose.rays "we-have found the
contral fact of our national existonce; tho eternal truth whioh cluded us,
but to whioh our national soul was anohored from the boginning, namely that
we are Oriontals and that it is our God-givon duty to do our part as members
of that proud race" (Domei, July 13).
Constabulary: Two hundred new polioemen are to bo added to the
metropolitan constabulary of Manila with a corresponding numbor of officors.

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.99)
- F5 -
This increase on the police force is considered "necessary" in view of
its manifold activities which include enforcing the rules and regulations
issued by the administration for the improvement of economic conditions
within the city (Manila, June 25).
Legal Reforms: Recommendations of the last convention of judges and
prosecutors envisaging amendments of existing laws and regulations are
being reviewed and elaborated by the Department of Justice (Manila, June 25).
Neigiborhood Associations: A general convention of officers and
members of the district and neighborhood associations was called by Mayor
Quinto on July 4. The assemblage was treated to the impressions of the
Mayor and Pio Duran, Assistant Director General of the Kalibapi, gathered
during their recent inspection tour of Japan. (The Mayor and Mr. Quinto
returned suddenly to Manila by plane leaving the rest of the inspection
party in Japan.)
Moros: In order to attain unity and understanding between the leaders
and peoples of the Moro tribe, a "consultative council" headed by Sultan
Saramain was recently formed. The Sultan is a member of the Independence
Preparatory Committee, and two Moro youths are among the Filipinos who
were recently selected to study in Japan. A number of Japanese language
schools are being established in Zamboanga, Cotabato and the Sulu States
(Domei, July 1).
Peace and Order: Economic as well as political independence of the
Philippines is dependent upon complete restoration of peace and order
throughout the islands, according to the Tokyo and Manila radios which are
assisting the military administration in the increasingly intensified
campaign being carried on to destroy resistance. Problems of peace and
order were discussed at the Kalibap1 conference in June and at a sub-
sequent conference of provincial governors and mayors. On both occasions
the audiences were deluged with both orders and requests for complete
destruction of belligerent individuals and groups so that the people may
resume their normal economic activities as well as be prepared for the
much longed for grant of independence.
An indication of the fact that the campaign is by no means near
completion, despite radio claims that complete peace and order has been
restored, is the creation of a new bureau in the Commission of the Interior
to be known as the Bureau of Information and Public Security. Manila
reports in a Spanish broadcast on July 1C that Chairman Vargas, with,
of course, approval of the supreme commander of the Japanese forces in
the islands, promulgated Executive Order 173 which creates the new unit.
"The Bureau of Information and Public Security, which will have juris-
diction over all provinces and cities of the Philippines will exercise
the following functions: To circulate proper and correct information and
to develop a more intelligent and enlightened public opinion about the new
order, with a view toward achieving the quick re-establishment of peace
and order all over the Philippines; to study and exploit ways and means
which will be useful in promoting the activities of the Central Pacifica-
tion Committee with special reference to the urgent need for immediately

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.99)
-F6-
re-establishing'complete peace and order; to (obtain) and submit such
reports (from) the public as the Commissioner of the Interior may order
from time to time, as circumstances may require; and to discharge various
othr duties pertaining to investigation and information on pacification
and public security."
The little active resistance remaining is the result of ignorance on
the part of isolated people, according to Manila. An official who
addressed the Kalibapi conference was quoted by Manila on June 21: 90 per
cent of the Filipino people have complied with the conditions set and are
ready for independence.  "Those people who have not yet complied are those
who cannot be reached by radio, newspaper or by any other means.... Those
who have been reached through the radio and papers are convinced of the
true (spirit) of (Japan)."
Beoause of this state of ignorance, mere pacification is not enough.
Camilo Osias, assistant director general of the Kalibapi, addressed
students of the Philippines Constabulary Academy on the necessity for
preventive and educational work among the few remaining belligerents
(Manila in English, July 9). Similar references are to be found in other
broadcasts.
Meanwhile Manila reports resistance in the following areas from time
to time: Negros, Nueva Ecija, Luguna, Ilocos Sur, Batangas, Sorsogon,
northern Cebu island and the hinterland of Davao.
The progress of the pacification campaign is indicated by the following
reports. General Ricarte, on a pacification tour of the Bicol Provinces,
conferred with the Governors of Rizal and Laguna and the Mayor of San Pablo.
All of them assured him that the protectors of public order are fulfilling
their duties and that the pacification carpaign is progressive rapidly.
"The only problem that remains is the (intransigence) of certain rebellious
elements in the mountains" (Manila, July 3).
Rafael Alunan, Commissioner of Agriculture and Commerce, has submitted
his written report to the Director General of the military administration.
on his recent pacification trip to Negros and other provinces in the
Visayan Islands. In general, the Commissioner reported that the situation
in the Visayas has "greatly improved" and that peace and order have been
restored "in many parts" (Manila, July 9).
On June 26 Manila remarked that the pacification campaign in the Central
Luzon Provinces have been enjoying great success as proved by the surrender
of a guerrilla leader in Nueva Ecija. However, a subsequent report from
Zaragosa. Nueva Ecija reveals that the municipal committee in charge of
pacification has been reorganized (Manila, June 1l).
ECONOMIC
The establishment of "self-sufficient" economic structure is, all
speakers agree, of the greatest importance, How ver, all display a distinct
tendency to slide over this aspect of the preparation for independence.

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
The people are urged to work for self-sufficient, but its attainment is no
longer said to be a necessary pre-requisite for the grant of independence.
Claims of economic progress are unusually vague and few in number.
Interviewed by the press together with the other members of the Executive
Commission on June 19, Arsenio Bonifacio, acting Commissioner of the
Interior, declared that with the help of the Department of Agricultural
and Commerce, the people's "vital needs" are being supplied, contributing
to "overall contentment and tranquility." Jose San Victories, Assistant
Commissioner of Agriculture and Commerce, merely referred to "plans"
directed toward the attainment of self-surficiency and the "harmonization"
of economic development in the Philippines with that of Greater East Asia.
Antonio De Las Alas, Commissioner of Finance referred to "tentative plans"
now being made to secure a sound financial basis for an independent
Philippines including the establishment of a central bank to refinance
local banking institutions (Domei, June 20).
Financo: In a fuller version of this last statement, Domei reports on
Juno 23 that Mr. De Las Alas stressed that a new central Filipino Bank
should have a strong financial basis, for which Japan's financial collabora-
tion in the form of the extension of credits is "vitally necessary." The
Commissioner expressed the hope that a greater number of Filipinos will
venture into the Islands' industrial and business fields with the attain-
ment of political independence, and declared that e central bank would
greatly oncourage and facilitate such participation. Present banking
facilities, he said, consist of the National Bank and three Japanese-owned
banks, the Yokohame Specio Bank, the Bn of Taiwan and the Southern
Development Bank with the most extensiv activities carried on by the
latter bank which advancos the funds for the industrial development of the
Islands, besides handling all treasury tusiness connected with the military
administration. The only function of the Netional Bank mentioned by
Mr. De Las Alas is the handling of treasury business connected with the
Executive Commission.
It appears, however, that the National Bank is being allowed to
expand its activities, since Domei reports on July 16 the rcopening of
three of its branches in the Cagayan Valley. Offices in Bayombong, Nueva
Vizcaya; Tuguagarao, Cagayan; and Ilegan, Isabela were opened on June 16,
23 and 26 respectively and will extend loans to farmers and merchants
to boost local agriculture and industries.
This extension of banking facilities was admittedly approved in
view of "the urgent need for extending aid to the farmers of the valley"
and the banks are expected to contribute to the increase of food produc-
tion in accordance with the five year plan of the military administration.
Domo1 reports from Manila on July 16 that Government revenue from
internal revenuo and customs taxes during the month of May showed an in-
crease of approximately 300,000 pesos over the previous month. Manila
remarks on July 10 that most of the municipal and provineial governments
in the Bicol provinces at presont have a groater income from existing
sources of revenue than before the war.

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.99)
-78-
Food Production: Citing a review of food production during the nast:
year and a half, prepared by the Department of Agrieulture and Commerce,
Domei reports on July 17 that approximately 1,600,000 hectares of land
representing more than one-third of the total cultivated area in the"
Philippines has been planted in essential food crops such as rice, corn and
cassava. Truck farms on Luzon alone are said to number more than 68, 000.
The Preparatory Committee for Philippines Independence "notes with
satisfaction the self-sufficiency of food production already attained"
and is grateful for the "farsighted policy" of the military administration
in adopting the food production campaign, initiated one year ago, which
saved the people from "undue hardship" as far as staple crops were con-
cerned by distributing seeds and seedlings free of charge, furnishing
technical and agricultural assistance and various other measures.
Most "encouraging" aspect of the present program of agricultural
development. is, according to Domei, the fact that "there is every indica-
tion" that the Philippines will attain a food-production record surpassing
the prewar mark.
The administration of the food production intensification campaign
has received information indicating that the great majority of small
planters in the rice producing provinces are faced with lack of funds to
meet the expenses connected with sowing. Some officials connected with
the campaign would have the administration help these planters with small
loans in accordance with the needs of the applicants but not exceeding 50
pesos per hectare to be repaid immediately after the harvest, according
to Manila on June 26.
On July 8 Manila reports from Malolos, Bulacan, that hundreds of
farmers have been given seeds free by the Government, and that town mayors
and officials of the neighborhood associations have been instructed to
help in the promotion of agriculture.
Ways and means of obtaining increased food production and improving
the rice industry were discussed at a convention in- Manila of some 270
dolegates of the Municipal Rice Growers Cooperative Association, represent-
ing 13l municipal cooperatives in each of the rice-producing provinces of
Central Luzon (Manila, July 15). Other business on the agenda included
the organization of additional chapters of the National Rice Growers
Cooperative Association in Pangasinan and Tarlac which are said to be the
only two provinces where duly constituted provincial chapters heve not al-
ready been set up. The delegates will also receive instructions from the
proper authorities concerning the cooperation which the administration
expects from the municipal producers cooperative sociefes in the production
and distribution of grains in the Philippines (Manila, July 16). According
to Domei on July 17 (to the Americas) 92 rice growers' cooperativos and 107
agricultur:l cooperatives have been organized in connection with the food
production campaign to which they have greatly contributed by educating
farmers on the value of occupational teamwork besides facilitating super-
vision and control.

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.98)
-9 -
Experiments are underway to produce new breeds of horai rice "more
suited to local conditions" since its cultivation is spreading "widely,"
the same dispatch reports.
Secondary crops will be increased in number to meet "the supplementary
food demands of the population," Manila deciares cn June 28. However, the
crops mentioned (unhusked rice, cassava, vr e:, ubers, tomatces,
corn, and peanuts) do net include any innovons  the protation pro
gram. Corn is said to h been sown on some .o ectares of land which
is oxpected to yield 2, 59n ooo (bushels?). . priaiant harvest has been
gathered in nearly all  provinces of Central sor and groat quantities
of corn are arriving in r. nila by cart, truck and train, according to a
locnl broadcest of Juiy15.
Indui y: The authorities are reportedly planning to troblo the exist-
ing faci itics for the manufacture of textiles tnrough tho importation of
more machinury from Japan. In the meantime, the National Industrial Company,
with 20,000 spindles and the Philippine Cotton Mill, with 8,000 spindles
are running at full capacity. Clothing fabrics have been successfully
wovon by using cotton threads for the warp end Manila hemp threads for the
woof and consoguently hemp will be mixed with cotton for the time being
(Japanese home scrvice broadcast, July 4).
The inauguration of the Kanebo Cotton Ginning Factory was held at
San Fornando. Pampanga (Domei, July 2). Another cotton factory is to be
built 1n Capas, Tarlac (Manila, July 9).
To stimulate tho production of cotton in Batangas a cotton growing
contest was held by field inspectors of several districts (Manila, June 30).
Other Industries: The prosont factory equipment of the Johnson Picket
Rope Company General Manufacturing Company in Davao is to be utilized to
establish a rope fish net induutry which is expected to supply the whole
of Greater East Asia with fish nets. Meanwhile.the Manila Cordage Company
and other similar companies in Manila which have been under the manage-
ment of the Nippon firm since May of last year, aro turning out rope fish
nets in amounts greater than the prewar output (Domei, June 26).
The production of bean paste, soy sauce and other daily necessities
is oxpected to be trebled as compared with prewar days due to the expansion
cf factories and technical improvements (Japanese domestic, monitored by
New Delhi, June 29).
A nowly discovered process for the manufacture of an automobile
lubricant to be extracted chiefly from palm oil 1s to be taken over shortly
by the Philippines Manufacturing Company (Domei, July 1).
The mass production of charcoal from palm trees, found in abundance
in Laguna end Tayabas Provinces is said to be playing a vital role in the
transportation system as charcoal is used as a substitute fuel to operate
busses (Domei, July 12, monitored by Now Delhi).

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.99)
- F10 -
The Y.li.C.A. Foodstuff Shop in Manila started last April is now claimed.
to be producing an average. of 50o food products a day from local materials,
thus employing some 80 ex-prisoners of war, war widows and orphans at a
basic wage of 70 centavos (Manila, July 11).
Shipping: Travelers to Manila from Bataan and Zambales need no longer
worry about missing their train since they now have a steamship line to fall
back on. This line connecting Guagua in Pampanga to Manila will soon be re-
opened utilizing the wharf of the Braza Cannery. Pampanga is said to be
enjoying "an unprocedented business and agricultural boom, " and a truck
line has been opened to join Baguio to the lowland provinces including
Tarlac, La Union, Ilocos Norte, Bontoc, and Pangassin (Domei, July 17).
Nearly all the main sea routes of pre-war days have been reopened
while the shipping tonnage now in comnission exceeds the pre-war level,
accerding to Hsinking on June 23. The launching of a number of locally con-
structed wooden ships having a capacity of 160 tons each was announced by
Manila on June 27 for the near future. Several sailing vessels with
auxiliery engines were launched at Malabon, Manila dockyards, on Juie 31
(Manila, July 1).
The Office of Maritime Affairs will open a Philippine Seaman's training
course. Boys from 16 to 20 with an elementary school education will be
trained as ordinary seamen. The course for deck officers and engineers
will last for one year. A marine post graduate course of two months dura-
tion will also be given (Manila, July 9).
ir. Vargas has appointed the members of the examining boards for
machinist mates and ships' officers from the lists of the Civil Service
(manila, June 22).
Communications: Radio telephone service between Davao and Manila will
be completed by the end of the year. Telephone exchango offices have been
opened in thirty-one important cities.
Wireless telegraphic sorvice connecting several points of Mindanao
are alroady in operation bringing the wireless communication systom up to
tho pre-war level. Stations are located at Zamboanga, Cagayan, Cotabato,
Dansalan and Surigao (Domei, June 24).
Private tolegrams will be accepted beginning July 1 at tho telegraph
officos at. Echague of Isabela State, Pagsanjan of Laguna State and Taal of
Batangas Stato (Domei, June 28). New telegraphic stations at Nasugbu,
Batengas State and Masbate, Masbate State will commence services from
July 5 (Tokyo, July 3). Service will be commenced on July 16 by. tho newly
osteblished telegraph office at Fabrica, Negros Occidental (Domei, July 13).
16 post officcs transacting postal savings busincss have beon reopened
in addition to the 290 which are already operating. These are located at
Isabela, Negros Occidental; Angadanan, Tayabas; (Pagsanjan), Laguna; (name).
Cobu; Santo Domingo, Ilocos Sur; Tilig, Mindoro; Bani, Pangasinan; Castillejos,
Zambales; Tiwi and Libon, Albay; San Rafael, Bulacan; (Perauquillas), Rosario,
and (Bulan), Cavitc; and Aborlan, Palawan, Checks and remittances by money
order may now be sent to these offices from Manila and vice vorsa (Manila,
July 9).

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.98)
- F11 -
On July 15. the reopening of 26 more post offices was announced at!
Calbayog, Samar; San Miguol, Iloilo; Liloan and Compostela, Cebu;
Cervantes and (Caoayan), Ilocos Sur; Bato, Camarines Sur; Canahauan
Island and Sampaloc, Tayabas; Lilio, (Ilaya), (Luisiana). (Sabuliao,
probably Sibulan or Sibeuan) Alaminos, Laguna: San Antonio, Nueva Ecija;
Bustos, Santa Maria: Guiguinto; Angat; Norzagaray, Bulacan; Mankayan,
Mount in Province; Barcelona, Sorsogon; and Antipolo, (Sunagonan),
(B nga) and Montalban. Rizal.
CULTURE
Education: Re-establishment of educational facilities in accordance
with the "new idea" of the Philippines is making rapid progress, says
Tokyo. A homo sorvice broadcast on July 2 reports that emphasis is being
placed on modicine, pharmacy, engineering and agriculture "which are
nocessery to the reconstruction of the Philippines." In addition to re-
opening of existing facilities in the above fiolds, schools have been
opened for the training of administrators and teachers. "Recently it was
docided to reopen the College of Pharmacy and the Home Economics college
of the Philippino Women's University and the Ophthalmology College of the
Sento Esperado Women's University."
In line with this "new" policy, two new schools, one for boys and the
second for girls, are to be opened in Cebu. "The courses in the new
schools (will) include Nippongo which will be taught one or two hours weekly
while English will be completely elimineted" (Manila in English to the
Philippines, July 12). Thesc are but two of the 600 elementary schools
scheduled to be opened this year, These schools will be staffed by the
840 Filipino teachors of Japanese who have completed training courses held
by thc Bureau of Public Instruction, according to a Domei dispatch in
English from Tokyo on June 24.
The so-called practioal courses were also emphasized in tho awarding
of scholarships to 92 students reported in an English Domei dispatch from
Tokyo on July 16. Tho scholarships were awarded to s tudents in engineering.
dontistry. pharmacy and in tho junior college of the University of the
Philippines.
Dr. Gabriol Manelac, president of the University of Manila. was
appointed to the post of essistant commissioner of the Department of Educa-
tion. Hoalth and Public Welfare according to a Spanish broadcast from
Monile to the Philippinos on July 1. The appointment, approved by the
Jepancse commender in the Islands, filled the vacancy left by the appoint-
mont of Mr. Cemilo Osias to the assistant director generalship of the
Kalibapi. Dr. Manalec formerly served as the direotor of the Bureau of
Public Instruction and this post was subsequently filled by the appointment
of Dr. Coledonio N. Salvador, formerly Director of Private Instruotion. Dr.
Marieno De Los Santos wes then appointed to the last namod post (Tokyo,
English Domei, July 9).
Lenguage: Qualifying oxaminations given June 1l and 12 for prospective
teachers of Nippongo wore passed by 112 out of a group of 213 candidates
(Manila in English, domostio, June 27). "Those who failed in the recent

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.99)
- F12 -
test are advised not to be discouraged and to take the third Nippongo
teachers qualification examination which will be given:on July 29 and 30."
Additional Japanese language schools are to be opened in Zamboanga,
Cotabato and the Sulu states, "in order to meet the popular demand" in
those area" says Tokyo in an English Domei dispatch of July 2. This
popular demand is further evidence of the cooperative attitude of the
Moro tribes, says the dispatch.
Propagation of the Tagalog language is part of the basic policy for
cultural rejuvenation, according to Claro M. Recto, Commissioner of Educa-
tion, Health and Public Welfare. Mr. Recto reported on June 20 that
Tagalog is now read and written by five million Filipinos and understood
by an additional eight million (Domei, June 2Q). Importance of this
language was also stressed by M. Benigno Aquino, Director General of the
Kalibapi who described it as "the only way to unify'the people and enlist
their mutual combined efforts in national reconstruction."
A part of the program of propagation is an exhibit of historical
documents written in Tagalog now on display at. the Department of Education,
Health and Public Welfare. "Among the documents exhibited is a copy of
the first published in the Philippines edition of the Tagalog vocabulary
written by Franciscan Father Pedro De San Buenaventura in 16l3....
Another Filipino relic is a 1752 edition of a (...) book written by Father
Franciseo to give fellow Spaniards better facilities to learn Tagalog"
(Tokyo, English Domei, June 24).
Propagation of Nippongo will be the function of a new'society to
be established in Manila, according to an English Domei dispatch of July 16.
"Among the promoters of the society is Francisco Lavidez, secretary, and
Jorge B. Vargas, Chairman of the Executive Comnission of the Philippines."
Religion: Guidance and enlightment in matters pertaining to the
"new" Philippines is being furnished the people of central Luzon Island
by Monsignor Cesar Maria Guerrero, Assistant Bishop of Menila, and
Monsignor Gabriel Reyes, Archbishop of Cebu, who are now on a proaching
tour (lianila, domestic, June 30), Monsignor Guerrero, reported to be one
of the most venerated of the Catholic leaders in the Philippines, told
Filipino Catholics they should abandon the "vainglorious" faith of the
Amoricens and turn to the "Oriental type of faith." This faith is
necessary for the reconstruction of the Philippines, according to the
prelate (Tokyo, English Domei, June 29).
Exchange Students: Graduation exercises were held June 27 for a
group of students who completed the preliminary training which will pre-
pare them for their future studies in Japan. The group was addressed by
the commanding officer of the Japanese troops in the Philippines and by
other Japanese and Filipino officials (Tokyo in Italian to Europe, June 27).
Jose Rizal: Ceremonies were held on June 19 to mark the laying of
the cornerstone for the Rizal Momorial Hall in Manila, says Tokyo in an
English Domei dispatch of June 21. The cornerstone of the new hall is a
"sacred stone" taken from the plasa of the Imperial Palace and will
"immortalize" the patriotism of the Filipinos.

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.97)
-13 -
A personal record of Rizal is to be published in the Tagalog language
in pamphlet form (Tokyo, English Domei, June 22). The project will
include 12 works by Rizal, his personal lotters in Tagalog, and his trans-
lations of Andersen's fairy tales and of the "Monkey and Tortoise."
Culture Institute: Offices of the Japan World Cultural Rehabilitation
Society are to bo opened in the Peacock building in Manila, according to
an English Domei dispatch of July 7. "From the first to the third floors
will be found the inquiry office, the East Asia Tourist Bureau. the
medical office, the Japanese Residents' Club, a tearoom, hotel facilities,
oxhibition hall, library. concert rooms and other (...)." The romaining
floors will be occupied by the Japanese broadcasting and news services.
"Saburo Yoshida, instructor of tho East Asia Training Instituto, has been
chosen chief of the planning bureau of the Cultural Institute and is
scheduled to leave shortly for Manila."

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.99)
一 G1 -
M A L A Y A
The visit of Premier Tojo to the southern regions and particularly his
overnight stay in Singapore was the major social and political topic in
Radio Tokyo's references to Malaya during the fortnight.
POLITICAL DEVELOPMENTS
The Premier: Tojo's arrival was greeted by thousands of Malays,
Chinese, Japanese, Indonesians and Indians, says Tokyo (English Domei,
July 4) who waved flags and cheered when the Premier appeared in the
central plaza of Singapore. After this public appearance he conferred
with Field Marshal Count Terauchi, commander of all Japanese forces in the
southern area, and other military leaders. He then met with the sultans
of the Malay states all of whom according to Radio Tokyo, were "profoundly
moved" by the magnanimous spirit of Japan. Arising at 5 a.m. on the second
day of his visit, Tojo "mingled informally and intimately" with soldiers of
the Malayan army, and visited the war dead memorial, the Ford assenbly
plant at which the surrender of the Allies took place last year and the
army hospital (Tokyo in nglish to Latin America, July 6).
Conference: Governors of all Malayan provinces attended a conference
on administrative problems held July 12 at the military administration head-
quarters in Singapore, says Tokyo to the home audience on July 13. "There
was an instructional address on the policy regarding military administration
measures given by a military administration official and an address by
the chief of the General Affairs department." Each governor reported on
conditions in his province'with reference to "participation in political
affairs by the native inhabitants, the problem of foodstuffs production
increase, and the problem of the handling of rubber plantations which are
problems requiring immediate attention." For the benefit of the governors
a representative of the administration "clarified" the policies which will
be followed in solving these issues. These policies will be determined by
the plans outlined by Tojo in his June Diet speech and by discussions held
in Tokyo in which military administrators of the various regions participated
says Tokyo. The principal points to be followed, according to a French Domei
dispatch of July 3, are "first, exploitation of the resources necessary
for national defense and sending of these resources of Japan and second,
integral realization of regional economic self-sufficiency." In addition
to the problems mentioned above and to those of banking and finance, the
governors apparently discussed the questions involved in the transfer of
the four northern provinces to Thailand, for the governors were told to
"formulate appropriate measures until special instructions come from Japan in
connection with the transfer of the four states in the north to Thailand
and thereby see to it that there would be no change in administration."
ECONOMICS
Shortages: Inadequate supplies of clothing and medical equipment
"and other necessities" are being supplemented rapidly, says Tokyo. To
fill these needs heavy industries are being encouraged and domestic industry
by Chinese and Malays for production of "articles for daily use" is being
stressed (Domci in French, July 3).

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.98)
一 G2 -
Training: Expansion of training facilities for seamen is reported:
by Hsinking in an English broadcast to the southern regions on July 3.
The Higher Maritime Training Schools has been opened in Singapore to
supplement the nautical schools opened earlier in the year. Meanwhile
students under 22 years of age were celled upon to fill posts as apprentice
telegraph operators.
In the future Malay seamen will be known by the Japanese names denoting
their rank, says Singapore in a Domei dispatch of July 12 received in New
Delhi. "Seamen are divided into 23 categories ranging from captain to
first, second and third engineers down to cooks."
Graduation exercises were held July 8 for the 160 students who com-
pleted their training at the East Asia Development Training School in Singa-
pore (Tokyo nglish broadcast to the Americas, July 9). The school was
then closed "temporarily" but a similar one is to be opened in Sumatra.
The reason for the closing, possibly lack of students, was not mentioned.
Industry: In another attempt to incite Malays to greater industrial
effort an exhibit of Malay manufactured products will open at Kuala
Lumpur on July 19 according to a Singapore Domei dispatch of July 14
monitored in New Delhi.
MILITARY
Some 50 Malay residents of Singapore are to be selected for training
as military interpreters nccording to a Singapore Domei dispatch of July
12. The young men who must be between 16 and 25 will be trained at the
"Koakun Renjo" or officers' training institute.

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.97)
- H1 -
INDIA
The cstiblishmant on July 8 of the "Indian National Army" provides the
main news event for the Bos -centerd propagenda campaign which con-
tinuos unabated. Glowing r ports of th army's high moral and impr ssive
military strength ar contrasted with a diametrically opposite picture
of the British Indian Army. The Azad Hind Radio procleims a Revolution
Voek. Axis sources warn Indians against British compronis offers, and
continue to report famin end inflation. .The ized Moslom station claims
location.
BIRTH OF  ARM
A communique from the headouarters of the Indin Inependence
League on July 8 serves as the officiel announcement of the birth of the
army. Th date of its first public appearance is peculiarly unclear.
3roadcasting in Italian to Europe on July 8 Tokyo seys that Bose re-
viewed the Indian National Army on July 5. This day is also given in
a. Tolyo English broadcast to the United States heard on July 9: "Last
Mondey a part of this army assembled in a large force for the first
time in public for a military review in the city of Shonan."
a Domei dispatch of July 8, however, bearing the datcline "Shonan,
July 8" postpones the review a day: "Officielly the Indian Indopendence
Army st ged a colorful roview on Tuesday (July 6) in honor of tho visit-
ing Japenese premier." On July 9 Tokyo broadcasting to the United States
also foetures Tojo's presonce: "At its first formal roview in Shonen,
the visiting prime minister Goneral Hideki Tojo took the salute." But
the progress reports of Tojo's trip dated July 5 and July 6 give no hint
of eny Indien Army review, graced or ungraced by his presence.
Several later dispatches also dispense with the visiting premier,
and allow Bos to reviow the Army. Tokyo in English to the United States
on July 9 says that Boso gay his pddross to th Army "on Thursday
morning (July P) following his reviow of the Indien National Army."
The Domoi text of the speach is dated "Shonan, July 8" and elso carrios
no roference to Tojo. A long broadoast from Tokyo to merica on July 9
announces that the Tokyo press of thet det gave prominent place to
photographs of the Indian National Army in a parade. The photographs,
claims Domei, show tho Shonan Municipality Building in tho background
of th- drawn renks of volunteers. Thero are also close-ups of the
Indian Nationel Flag and shots of Bose surrounded by an elite guard.
While Tojo is reported to hava been present at the parade, no mentton
is mode of photos of him, and the date on which the pictures were taken
is not givon.
THE ILLUSION OF INEVITABLE SUCCESS
Unembarrassed by these initial discrepanci s Tokyo procceds to use
th: young rmy es a propagandistic if not e military werpon. Bose's
thr ts, promises and plens as expressed in his spe ch to the army and
his address to a Singapore mass meeting ere juxt posed with evidencos

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.96)
- H2 -
of the nrmy's present and incroasing power to produce an improssion
of inevitabl success. Prosumably this strategy is intended both to
incite tho Indirn proplr to nti-British rctivitics in supposnd
cooperation with th- Freedom Army from within, nd to affoet Allied
militery plans bes d on Indin.
Promise of Victory: Bose's confidence is therefore high in his
spe ch to the "soldi rs of India's nrmy of liberotion." Ho bonst:
"This is not only tho army that will omoncirate Indin from the British
yoko--it is also the army that will creete  future notionel -rmy of
fren Indin." Ho makos xplicit use of the significence of tho founding
of the army in Singeporo: "Th Indien Netional army gev" its histeric
birth. in th nowly born Shonon which forn rly wee tho impregnabl
stronghold of the British mpiro." is a battl cry he offors the
most potont synbol of control of th- ntir, subcontinent: "On to Delhi!
On to Delhi!" Furthering tho illusion of en army of extremo dovotion
whoso victory is gunranteed in ndvanco by willingness to faco evon
the most difficult obstaclos ho docleres: "For tho present I crn offor
you nothing except hungor, thirst, privati n, forced mnrchos end doath.
But if you follow me in life or denth, as I em confident you will. I
sholl leed you to victory end freodom."
Total. Mobilization: To a mrss neoting in front of th Sin apore
City Hell on July 9. Boso propounds a slogan for the Indinns in the
Japancso-occupied arons, also devised to fit into tho pattorn of
inevitebl victory through its str ss on complete prepnration. He
calls for "totel mobilization of. cll th resourccs of the Indien people"
out of which ho oxpects "at lorst 300, 000 soldiors nd 30,000,000 do1lars."
He asks in sddition for a "death-dofying regimont of Indien womon." On
tho basis of this support ho promisos "n roal second front for tho
Indians at home." In a press interview the next morning he stress s the
same point: "He is firmly convinccd thnt if Indien in est Asin mobilizc
their entire resources now thcy would bo ablo to bring to th ir country-
mon at home h lp sufficient to  xpel British power from Indin."
Adi Nogro, Chief ditor of the Sumatra Shimbun. furthor clnrifies
the demands in e commontery on the spocch. "It is ovidont thet grent
sacrifices must be offered. not only in the forn of don-tions to
associ: tions, but also metoriel end physicnl..., Throughout tho southern
rogions aro found Indian peaplo who are merchnts, lnborers, etc., end
mrny of whom ere weelthy.... It is now time for Indiens of all clesses
end groups.to take steps conjointly." (Dom i, July 1l)
Composition of the rny: Roports about the arny itslf ettompt
to build it up es e real monaco without disclosing any military informa-
tion as to units, officers, otc. The photogrephs in the Tokyo pnpers of
July 9 are described as showing, "snart uniforns, bayonots, rifles, mechinc
guns and tanks." Tho san, Domei dispatch (July 8. in English) quotos
"somi-official quarters" who term tho ermy's moralo nnd disciplino ox-
cellont. "There have beon no instences of religious. or rnciri difficul-
ticse... The Hindusteni langurg is allowed for commands ns woll as
genorel use among the troops...infentry, artillory, signel end engincering

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.98)
- H3 -
units as well as others...will eventually include naval and air con-
tingents.". The size of the army is given here as "already numbering
tens of thousands." Another Domei dispatch of the same day releases
a more modest figure: "The newly organized Army is composed of 1.000
youthful Indian patriots."
A history of the prmy is given Tn e Tokyo commentary on July 9.
Organization was begun in april of last year, end the force was ready
for action by Sopt moer. Another broadcnst of that dat gives the
testimony of an "observer" to the effect that the army is equipped with
the most up-to-date weapons and machin ry, and "emphasis is being especially
placed on cooperation between the infantry and mechanized forces." On
the l5th a Domei correspondent describes his recent visit to the army
at its camp "surrounded by heavy tropical folioge" in contrel Malaye.
The camp is "typicel of the many camps set up for the trrining of the
Indinn National Arm." Officers and mn are undergoing training "night
and day." Most of the men ere still in their twenties.
Influx of Volunteers: Great enthusiasm for the army is reported
 by Tokyo throughout the occupicd areas. The Canton branch of the Indian
Independence L ague is credited with having sent a lnrge numb-r of
volunteor troops to Singapore as early es July 4. From Bangkok com.
press reports that a large number of Indien routh in Theiland heve applied
to enlist (the total number of Indien r sidents in Thriland is given
in these reports as approximetoly 20,00o). In Manila tho spokasman for
the local branch of .the Indian Independonce Longue declered thet "young
and old elik are longing and waiting patiently for the momont when
their turn comes to lay down liv- f r the saered cause of th• mother-
land's liberation." From Singapore on July 10, Domci speaks of "volunteers
in ever incr asing numbers, a steady inflowing of monetery donations and
telegrams of encouragement," Applications are reported from young Indian
residents in Malaya. On July 13, th- departure for thc army of two
Indian instructors from a Girls's Normal School in Kob? is roportcd.
The influx of volunteers roachod a high mark on July 17 when it is ro-
ported from Singapore "more then twenty-five hundred Indian youths rushed
to the headquerters of the Indian Independence L ague yesterday slone."
Bose visited the headquarters and spoke to the applicents.
THE BRITISH INDIAN ARMY
As a contrast to thc Freedom Army, Axis propaganda develops e sorry
picture of the Indien troops in tha British Army. Recent praise of
Indirn soldiers by Amery end Wavell is countered with cherges of hypocrisy.
while Churchill's Guild Hall reference to the volunteer status of the
army is ridiculed. In a commontery ontitled "Why Englend Flatters Our
Soldiers?" the clandestine (B rlin-controlled) Netional Congross Radio
on July 9 answers its own question: "So that they mey remain satisfied
with their prement conditions and will not demend better conditions end
equality of tatus of the British troops and finally tho right to be
commended by their own Indien officers." Tokyo on July 12 describes the
condition of the British-Indien ermy ns vory poor indeod; there is dis-
content and it is ripe for a revolution; it lacks modern equipment nd the

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.97)
一H4-
relntion between Indien soldiers and British officers is not cordial.
The reason why Indiens enlist according to Tokyo is: "the Indien
masses are reduced to starvation and they go to the army to be able to
fill their bellies. Besides this, they get wenpons from the British which
they will use ageinst them." A Mainiohi editorinl predicts thot when
Bos? returns to India, Indian troops. under British commond will welcome
him nd join his forces. This forecast is echoed in several commenteries,
Singapore ppeals directly to Indinns "that they should m st certainly
enlist in the British forces...we will succeed in getting weapons from
the British government only by enlisting and then, we sholl release
and liberete our country with the help of the same weapons,"
Revolt Rampant: Several alleged incidents envolving Indien troops
are reported. On July 5. according to Domei there was a clrsh between
Indien nd British soldiers in the northwestern part of the United
Provinces. It started when British officers suspecting that the Indirns
were listening to Subhas Chandra Bose's redio broadcrst from Singrpore,
destroyed the radio set and. whipped all of the Indien thet were listening.
In the frecas which lasted for 8 hours the British side suffored 35
derd, nd 180 injured while on the Indirn side 13 waro killed and 62 wounded.
On the same day Domei claims the British High Commnd took ection to
diserm all Indians when off duty. From Bangkok on July 13, Tokyo Feports
that Indian soldiers are ordered to be in their berracks by 8 p.m.
instesd of 10 p.m. This is coupled with the flnt stetement thrt
4,O00 Indion soldiers porticipmted in e mutiny egeinst tho 3ritish, and
1,500 have deserted and joined the notioncl guerrilles. Tho next dry
Domei quotes a.Lisbon source for the informotion that "Indien troops
in Indin pre deserting the prmy in droves. often forcing their way out
by use of arms."
As an example of the spirit of these troops; Tokyo presents an
interview with en Indinn wer prisoner. "I think" says Knter Sindh (?)
after an enti-British tirade "that my people at hme pre thinking exactly
in the same way as myself."
REVOLUTION WETK
Azed Hind celebretes Boso's arrival in Singapore vith the proclamation
of a Rovolution Week, July 9 to 16. For the first time since last fall,
direct instructions nre givon over this Borlin-sponsor d olandestine
radio, "All right, now for the revolution wee, write pbout the work you
all hove to do: Ploas write fast. (1) By organizing processions and
demonstrations, give your sympethy for ose's progrom. On the emblms or
standerds ring these processions you should write this: Long Live
Revolution: According to Subhes Chandre Bos, freedom is imnossibl
without an ermed struggle; We shall do or die: Long Libre Free Indi- Army:
Drive th- British aut with a bullot; end so forth. You should dopt
resolutions, oxpressing your decision that non-violent methods pre not
nough for gaining independence and thst now you nre ready to take up
arms for th-t end. (2) In th factories., pspecielly those in which war
materials are produced stir up sabotage activity.

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.95)
- H5 -
(3) By spr ading rovolutionory propsganda among the pensants and
farmers, prepare them for refusing to pey texes. All the farmors
should hoard foodstuffs. (4) All over India everybody should be pre-
pored to welcome the Fre Indin upon its. antering India. Whon the
soldiers of tho Froe Indin army descond by parachute in eny pert of
the country, th y should b givn very kind of aseistence. (5) Or-
gonize syst matic sabotag activity to disrupt British com unication
syst m, mail, telophono, and telegreph.
(6) Workers in the transportation systom should b brought under
prop grnde influence with a view to stooprg: of work end sebotago.
(7) By means of propagrnda police should be made to side with the
workers for tho notionnI couse in matters of civilinn prrests. (8) New
rgcruits in the British army should be influ nced by propogende to
rivolt whan the Free Indin Army will nt r Indie and to join it.
(9). Stop going to schools and collegos, (10) Write.or inscribe
r volution ry slogans on buildings. (1l) Pictur s.of ehetma Gandhi,
Maulana Azad, and Subhas Chandra Bose should be distributed. Approoch
the shopkeepers to sk them to display them in windows, or they should
hong these pictures in clear view. (12) Picture of Gendhi, Maulone
Aznd, nd Subhas Chendra Bose should be displnyed on large buildins.
if you do not heve pictures in sufficient numbers, cut them out from
newsp pers for this purpose. (13) Pictures of Churchill. Am ry.
Way 1l, ond auchinleck ond members of Vicaroy's Council should be
burn d publicly in a pil at street corners.
t?
(14) In mectings or theaters d stribute revolutionery literature.
(15) L aflets supporting Subhes Chendrr Bose and containing his
speeches should be distributed. (16) Distribute frocly ll informotion
you may rec ive concerning Bose's rctivitics or his lictures in ast
Asin.: (17) Vrite such slog'ns on your doors as: elcome Free Indie
Armyi
On July 13 tho cempaign is put in its setting, "Che aim of this
mov: (Revolution Weck) as ll of you know, is firstly the intonsifica-
tion of the present capaign of civil disobedience, end secondly the
preparation for the noxt and final steg which will mark'a r volution
in our methods of fighting. This finel steg is armed wnrfare, and
we shell lontor this stage during the s cond year of our struggle which
bogins on August 9."
Friday the l6th, the last of the weak is declared Army Day: "On
Friday you must take e vow thet you will: enlist in the Nationol Army.
and henceforwerd you will considor yourselyes soldiers. . "Slogans to
shout "The Indian Nationel Army - a guarantee of Indie's freedom;
Enlist in the Nntional Army; We pre with Subhes Chendra Bosc; Deihi is
not. far from Shonep." . These appeals are not echoed by any of the
Japanese-controlled stations broadcasting to India.

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.99)
- H6 -
COMPROMISE OFFERS IN THE OFFING
Enemy sources claim that the arrival in Singapore of Bose and the
formation of the National Army have caused extreme consternation in the
councils of the Government of India. Saigon on July 12. quoting the
LONDON TIMES, reports that the main topic discussed at the Indian National
Defense Council. which was in session from July 3 to July 8. was how to
cope with the activities of fifth columnists and nationalists. Axis radios
warn repeatedly that the British answer to the new threat will be another
attempt at compromise.
From Istanbul, on July 7. Tokyo hears "the British-Indian government
feeling restless about internal conditions in India which are becoming more
serious is reported to be contemplating once again crafty methods of re-
conciliation with the Indian National factions, proposing that if these
factions should go back on their determination to oppose Britain the treat-
ment accorded now interned leaders would be, made lighter." A week later
"political observer in Tokyo suggested that the British Government attempted
to appease the all-Indian National Congress with the release of political
prisoners on the condition that the Congress Party withdraw its independence
demands."
Transocean reports a proposal of Sir J.P. Scrivastava that Congress
members who have been released from prison hold a rump meeting of the party
committee and cancel the demand for independence made at the Bombay meeting
last year in order to en le nationalists to resume talks to the British
authorities. Saigon speaks of a "feeler" put out on July 6 by the New
Delhi radio, in the form of an endorsement by Mr, Mnnwhi, former Congress
Minister in the Bombay government of the Srivastava plan. Munshi is critie-
ized sharply by both Saigon and the National Congress radio,
On July 13, Istanbul again 1s the source for a single unconfirmed report
that 318 political offenders have already been released. On July 19, Azad
Hind fredits London with a rumor of enother plan along the lines of the
Cripps' proposal in which the British government will request the Indian
princes and Mr. Jinnah to take the initiative.
VIOLENCE VS. NON-VIOLENCE
Tokyo's answer to the danger of negotiations between the Indian
Nationalists and the Government is continued emphasis on the need for violen!
direct action. One aspect of the formation of the Freedom Army is its
poteney as an advertisement for force.
Tagore's Name Taken in Vain: A recent commentary by the Japanese
poet Toni Noguchi (Tokyo in Hindustan1, July 13) manages to endorse the
concept of violence and at the same time evoke the benevolent image of
Tagore, Four years ago there was an exchange of letters between Noguchi and
Tagore in which the Indian sage attacked Jepanese aggression in China. On
the anniverwary of Tagore's death in July, the Allies have in the past
referred to this condemnation. This year

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.97)
- H7 -
oguchi prepares his defense errly by bringing up the Tagore remarks
himself, and concluding that if Tagore had lived today he would have
changed his mind.
Pose the follower of Gendhi: "I an still . follower of
Gandhi," declared Subh s Bose in his Singapore press interview, accord-
ing to Tronsocean of July ll. Vording his statement very carefully to
m int in his identific tion with Gandhi as the leeder of Indian re-
sis  nce nd yet to polerize around himself all desiros for more direct
ction Bos, continues, "It is our view thet Gandhi's civil disobedience
compnign is b: far insufficient for overthrowing British rule in Indis.
In spit of this we do not take up a stand against Gandhi, Our movements
are running concurrently. We pursue by different ways the same aim,
India's liberrtion."
BOSE'S POLITICL IDENTIFICATION
While Gendhi's neme is the one most frequently heard in commenteries
linking Bos with Indien trnditions, there are also, favorable mentions
of Jawaherlal Nehru, nd Meulana Azad, the last elected President of
tho Congress.
Bose. the Indinn! Although Bose cartainly mnkes no secret of the
support of his cause by Jepan, and on occasion pays extrovagant tribute
to his sponsors, his campaign is playe: up as an Indinn affrirs. In
his army speech, he clrims that tho nrmy "hos been orgenized entirely
under Indien leadership." In the Singepore interview he reveals an
important motive behind the plen for a Provisional Govornmen. "I an
firnly convinced that if we succeed in establishing this Provisional
Governmont there will be absolutely no reason whatever for anyone
whother he be Indian or any other nrtionnlity to doubt that we are
really working not only for India, but in the rna of Indir for in-
depenaance."
Bose the leader: Certain new elemonts in th  presentetion of the
Bose campaign, however, are. completely alion to Indien tredition, and
in fact strongly reminiscent of European fnecism. Since Bose assumed
the presidence of the Indien Independence League, he hes been referred
to on all Japenese-sponsored broadcasts rs Netheji. Nethe m ens leader,
cf. Fuchrer, Duce: ji is a respectful suffix.
The Domei report of the rrmy reviw speeks of Bose "surrounded by
en elite gurrd." Leter montion is made of the thre, principles accord-
ing to which the army is organized--faith, unity, and sacrifice. P-rti-
cul rly reverling is e strtenent in tho Singepore press conference.
"Then asked Whnt tyye of governm nt would the Provisional Government
-dopt? Would it be in any wey a democretic government for example?' the
Indian lender countered in his inimiteblo menner 'I would like to esk
the questionor whether there is any democracy in eny gov rnment which
can truthfully sny it is democratic."

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.95)
一 H8 -
ECONOMIC INFORMLATION ROM AXIS SOURCMS
Long disquisitions on Indinn cconomic hardships have beon crowded
out of this fortnight's broadcests by the urgency of the Bose camprign.
Scatterad food shortag ref rences include 70 denths from starvetion
as r ported by the District iagistrr e of Balasore in Orisse (Saigon,
July 5); the introduction of rationing in the Kandesh District of
Borbay and the domend of the Loslem L ague in Bihar that all exports of
food be forbidden (Tronsocoan, July 8); on ennouncement thet control
of gr in will b enforced in liadras and one that rationing will be
Extended to all villages in Nepal state (Trensoceán, July 12); a
roport thot tho opposition in th Bengal legisl ture led by ex-premier
Fazlul Haq hrs demanded complete prohibition of food exports (Trans-
ocean, July 13); a claim that the Delhi Radio report d famine in
Bijapor (Azed Noslom. July 15). There is also a Tokyo figure of 60%
for the rise in the cost of living for th, working clnss during the
lnst thre yoors (July ll), and a Transocern report thet Celcutts
toxtile mills will hove to clos down if tho present shortago of corl
continues (July 14).
MISCELLANIOUS NOTDS
Azad Moslem in Waziristen?: On July 10, for. the first time, FBIS
monitors heard Azad Moslem, clandestine station broadcasting from Huysen
in Holland, clgim a location - Waziristan (7). Azad Hind and the
National Congress Radio which broadcnst over the same wevelengths give
no loction.
The Voioe of Japant The BIs Hindustoni trenslotor judges from the
phraseology and use of idiom in the Tokyo Hindustani brondcasts that they
ar written in Japanese and then trenslated into Hindustani.

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.97)
-I1 -
FAR EAST FRONTS
SOUTHWEST PACIFIC
Tokyo's treatment of th fighting in th Southwost Pecific continues
to be cautious. Since th initial announcement from Tokyo that the
Allies had landed on Jun 30 on the island of Rendova, several other
landings have been admitted. According to Tokyo several naval battles
have occurred since the opening of the offensive.
The now head of the Navy Pr ss Section of the Imperiel Headcuerters.
Commander Itaru Tashiro delivered a speoch at th. Central Cooperative
Council conference in Tokyo, reporting on developments sinc Navy Minis-
ter Shimada's report in June beforo the Diet. In Tashiro's report, emphasis
was placed on the Solomons. No mention was made of the New Guinea
battles. H srid "at present an int nsive battle is raging in the
southwestern Pacific with Now Georgia, Kolombengarn and Rendova Islonds
as the center of activitios. Tracing the developm nt of the air battles
in the r gion since early Jun, he pointed out that both sides wer
rugmenting their air forces in this ar a, "each trying to destroy nir
bases and disrupt the communications linos of cach other or engaging
in spectacular air bettles." Ho presented a graphic picturo of sir
bombardment of Japanes, positions in this region. The enemy's nir
attacks on our land positions and air bas s also beceme intensificd. In
fact, since the beginning of June the number of enemy warplanos which
assault d us sometime reached from 70 to 10) planes a dny. "100 planos
daily mans th quivalont of having 10 raids daily by formations con-
sisting of ton planes enoh. If we should assume that the enemy reids
us once each hour during a 10 hour-per day period, th enemy plnnes
would be raiding us throughout 10 straiht hours drily. This meens that
there are always enemy planes ov r our hends throughout the day." This
admission of Americen air supremacy is ouito startling in view of the
number of Allied plan's claimod shot down by To'yo.
AIR NGAGIENTS
A summary of the results in air ngagments claimod by Tokyo;
July 5 Shortland Island -- 20 out of 60 shot down
July 8, 9 Kolombangara--Americans raidod Japanese positions
July 9 Rendova--5 out of 20, 6 lending bargos sunk
July 10 Antieircraft fire at Munda shot down thrcn plenes
July 9
Rubiena--3l planrs shot down, Japanesc losses 4
July 11
New Georgia--24 P-38's out of 40. Japanese losses 3
July 14
New Georgia--1l planes out of 60--bombing damage
July 15
Rubiana--19 planes out of 50. Japenese loss s 10
July 16
Guadalcanal--damages on warships in hrrbor
July 17
 Buin Bougainville--58 planes out of l07, Japanesc lossos 9.

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.96)
- I2 -
NAVAL NGAGILENTS
Thero have been two neval engagmonts since th- oponing battle of
Rendova Islond: the "Night Battl- off Kuln Bay" and the "Night Battl
off Kolombangarn."
The war rosults ns onnounced by Tokyo ero ns follows:
July 4 Kule Bay or Gulf Battl called the "Fight Battlo off
Kula Bay."
SUNY
July 4
1 Santa Fr type Cruis r Type B
1 Strong Clnss d-stroyer
1 unidontifiod type wership
July 5
1 Helena type cruiser
1 unknown type cruisor
1 special s rvico wership
July 12. "Night Battlo off Kolombangera
SUNK
2 cruisors
DAMAGID
1 cruiser sot afire
JAPANEST LOSSES
1 cruisor hoavily drmnged.
SUM ARY OF RISULTS FRON JUIE 3O TO JULY 13.
SUNK
6 cruisors
5 larg destroyers
1 destroyr
1 unidentifid shin
1 special sarvicc ship
1 torp do bont
1 (7)
DAULAGD
2 crisers
1 destroyer
12 transports sunk or demeged

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.96)
- I3-
LANDINGS
The Navy Press spokesman in the obove speech edmitted several
new amorican lendings on the Solomons Islands. Reviewing the events,
as seen by Tokyo, chronologicrlly, tho following operations were
m ntioned.
Junc 30--Succrssful landings mede an Rendova island with subsequent
Allied advance into the island and Allios beginning to "appoar in the
preas north of Rondovn to tho south of New Georgia.
July 1--Landing on kobian Island (and island between Munda and
Rendova.
July 2 and 3--Landing south of Munda
Landing at an aren locatod in the south contrel art
of New Georgia.
July 4 and 5--Landings on Rice anchorago in Kula Gulf in the N.W.
coast of New Georgia. Landins on Beiroko which was repulsed.
July 12--Lending on Kulr Gulf shore.
Lending east of Munde from Robiane which was ropulsed,
Landing of another unit nenr Munda which succe ded at
first, thon was ropulsed. (See Naval ngagment of this dete.)
Thesc seem to be the only lendings which th: spokosman m ntiond
elthough th broadcast version to the Japenese domostic eudience is
different from the version crrried on the forcign beams, causing some
confusion over just whet the Tokyo propegandists wants thoir nudionce
to b-lieve.
SIGNIFICANCE OF TH BATTLES
Tokyo edmits thet the imm diat objective of the fighting is the
recapturo of Mundn, and describes the action as "grim." There is an
absence of predictions of how th  fighting is going. No overall tate-
ments are mede about th success of the Japanese dofondors in driving out
the invaders. Instead thore seems to be some smell evidonce of pr pera-
tion for the oventual loss of the islend.
The pr paretion in case of defent seems to consist of pointing
out the cost of island-to-island strategy, Trensocoen quotes "Japanese
military xperts" to thc effect that landing operations with an air
umbralla could be successful, m ntioning Sicily, end that hervy losses
hav occurred on the am rican side. "Japan had still n fow dozens of
such islands for sale at that price, it was ironicelly added."
Minister Shimada not d in a broadcast to tho Japanese homo eudience
"the rocent progress of war around R-ndove Island end Now Goorgin Island
in particular has been truly bitter, Although the loss s of th: nomy

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.93)
-I4 -
were really enormous,...tho enemics are persistently continuing. do
pending on irresistibl. numbers and productive strongth." It might bo
possibl to discount th- soverity of this statem nt in light: of the
fact that thr whole talk was intonded as a production booster.
Tashiro clos d his specch with this admonition to his listonors:
"Then you road the contents of th war achievements announced by Impcriel
H adguerters, I would lik to ask you not to hold the attitude of. ax-
pacting winningn ws all h tim.."

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.98)
-J1-
THAILAND
Premier Pibul Songgram receives more than his usual share of attention
from Radios Tokyo and Bangkok during the past fortnight for two reasons:
The visit to Thailand of Premier Tojo and the occasion of Pibul's 46th
birthday which occurred on July 14.
THAI POLITICS
The Tojo Visit: Japan's Premier arrived in Bangkok on July 3 where
he held conferences with military officials, received decorations from
the Thai king, attended a state banquet and conferred on both days of
his visit with Premier Songgram. Public announcement was. made of only
one of the topics discussed at these conferences--the transfer to
Thailand of four Malay and two Shan'states. However, it was reported
that "complete accord" was reached on the "common objectives of the two
nations" (Tokyo in Japanese to the south seas, July 5).
Thailand has thus been enlarged by the acquisition of the Malay
states of P rlis, Kedah, Kelantan and Trenganun and the Shan states of
Kengtung and Mongpan. Justification of the transfer was based upon the
historial fact that all these areas had previously at one time or another,
been included in the territory of Thailand. Political implications
of the deal are omitted in broadcast references. It is reported to be
an effort on the part of Japan to correct an injustice and to repey
Thailand for the cooperntion extended during the drive on Singepore end
after. "This arrangement was made solely out of respect for the sovereiagity
and independence of Thailand and not on the basis of the so-celled 'give
and take' or mechinations as usually employed by the United States and
Britain" says Tokyo in a broadcast to the Americas on July 6.
These claims of historical justification are substantiated by Tengku
Nara Wanga, member of the Trengannu state council, whoseid that Trengannu
"always looked to Thailand as overlord since 1776, but as a result of
Anglo-Thai treaty of 190l, came under British rule. He related that be-
fore the British ceme, a periodical exchange of gifts was carriod out
between Thailand and Trongannu which was a token of good will between
the people" (Tokyo, English Domei, July 10).
The Premior: That the move achieved the r-sult of strengthening the
position of Pibul as Premi r of Thailand is ovident in domestic broad-
casts from Radio Bangkok. On July 10, two Bangkok commontators Mun and
Kong described the transfer ns a "great honor" showing that "Japan re-
spacts and trusts Thailand of the present day under the leadership of
our Premier." On July 6 Thais are told that the gift of territory should
be satisfactory proof of the ebility of the Promier. The commontetor
allegas that those who criticize their leader are the sort who "refuse
to work when required to do so" (Bangkok, July 6, monitored in New Delhi.)

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.97)
一 J2 -
"Onc thing is certain," says the speaker, "our leader is a real Thai
who wishes only well for the nation and tho people." Again, on July
8, Thai list ners ar told that "we must ell undcrstand our leader
and follow him ovory way" (Bangkok, dom stic, New D-lhi monitoring).
Chose xpressions of devotion ar accompanied by the femilinr requests
that the Theis cease questioning the motives end actions of Songgram
who is unablo, for strat gic reasons, to xplpin fully all his actions.
The above sontimonts wer, repoatoa on July 14 when Pibul observed
his 46th birthday. Bangkok emphasizes again the Premier's devotion to
his country and us s as an example in its defonse of the lcader the
fact that h gots up carly cach norning to saluto tho flag. "Sone
people probably think he does not got up arly, but romains snugly in
b d. This is not so. He works so hard that h even takes his lunch
at his desk." Needless to say all Thais aro urged to emulate these
exomplary habits of th ir Promier.
Aside from laudatory romarks on Rndio Bangkok, the birthday wes
celebrated by a garden party held "under the puspices of the Japanese
forces in Thailand" (Tokyo in nglish to the Americas, July 4) and by
the prosentation to Songgram of a gift of guns nd other military equip-
ment which ceme fron "the people." "Tho promier later contributed
gifts to the Thai army in his name" (Tokyo, English Donei, July 14).
Those pleas for support of the Promior ere in answer to the internal
unrest which Songgrem-himsolf revealed in an April 5 broadcast monitored
in Melbourne. Songgran admitted that his efforts "heve feiled.... I
should liko to lot you know that our country is confronting a procarious
military, economic and financial position.... I cannot allow the
subversive movement to pass without check.... I heve been reproached
that my Minist rs are men of dishonorable charactor.... Not only does
the enemy hate me, but the Thai peopl- hate ne as woll." These pleintive
romarks were followed by the report that he had asked his cabinet
ministers to choose his successor. Further evidonce of this internel
dissatiofaction is another speach by Songgram broadcast by Bangkok on
June 24 in which he refers to int rnal disagreements and "rancours."
"The enemy has tried his best to throw our country into confusion by
instigating int rnal dissension and factionel rivalry, which, if we
fall into his trap, will ruin our country. I bog you not to believe in
eneny propagande nor in evil rumors. I know you are patriots end with
this confidence I beg to pponl to you to cooperate with the governm nt
to your utmost for the safety of your fatherland" (New Delhi monitoring).
Administration: Proliminary plans aro being leid for government of
the newly acquired territories but final decisions must necessarily .
wait official word from Tokyo. Meanwhile e committee of representatives
of the various Ministries in the Thai government has. been set up, seys
Tokyo in an English Domei dispatch of July 8, "Incorporation of Kengtung
province of the Shan states is expected to be easily effected since the
province has bcen under the Thai military administration. But as for
the other provinces of the Shan states and four provinces of northern
Melai thcre still exist a number of details which must be settled in
connection with thcir transfer." As a rosult of the "rapid progress"

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.98)
- J3 -
that was made in the "necessary procedures" the Thai home ministry was
able to report on July 12 that 41 officials had been appointed for the
government of the Shen states. These included clerks and public pro-
secutors (Tokyo in English to the Americas, July 14).
Foreign Relations: In honor of two visiting Thai officials, Eiji
Amau, president of the Bonrd of Informetion of Japan, entertained at
dinner, says Tokyo in an nglish Domei dispatch of July 16. These two
officials whose visit to Japan has received much attention from Tokyo,
are Pairot Jaiyanama. chief of the publicity bureau of the Thai govern-
ment. and Prichanusat Panyarachan, president of the Thai Press Associa-
tion. (Pairot Jaiyanama is a brother of the Thai Ambassador to Japan,
Nai Direck Jaiyanama.) The visit has included conferences with Japanese
officials and visits to other sections of Japan.
THAICONOMY
Food: The apparently increasingly serious problem of food short-
ages hos led to more and moro appeals on Radio Bangkok for the cultiva-
tion of kitchen gerdens. Women listeners are told that such gardens
aro their particular function since the work is light, "to allow any
such shortages to exist in Thailand is just like accepting defeat in
the present war" (Bangkok, domestic, June 3, New Delhi monitoring).
Evidences of the shortage are broadcasts on July 8 and 10 which
report increases in the price of dried fish, fish sauce, oil, coconut,
and ocan oil whil a July 3 broadcast urged the people to plent more
potatoes.
In an effort to improve the distribution of fruits and vegetables,
the Premier appointed a committee of Ministers "to consider the ways
of...transporting fruits and vegetables along the astorn coest" (Bangkok,
domestic, July 8). "The minister of Intcrior is the president of the
committee and the representatives of the Ministry of Trede and the
Ministry of Transportation are members." Among the suggestions proposed
by this committee are: "The Ministry of Trade is to work with the
fruit and vogetabl, corporation in products, the corporation will buy
all the surplus products. The port authority will arrange with the
steamship company for better ways of transporting these products. The
ministrics will work in close coopcration." It is reported that Songgram
approved these proposals.
Meanwhile Tokyo reports a "bumper rice crop" in Thailand this year.
On July 13 en English Domei dispatch notes that "there will be enough
rice this yeer for Thailand to oxport large cuantities of this staple
product to other countries in the Co-prosperity sphere." (One of the
charges against Songgram is reported to be that too much food is being
exported.)
Cotton: Promotion of cotton production is the function of the newly
organized Raw Cotton Production Promotion Company which is capitalfzed
at 2,500,O0e mhts says Tokyo in an nglish broedcest to the Americas on
July 8. The company is to be headed by a board of directors containing

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.97)
一J4 -
ropresentatives of government agencics as well as private business.
"Its chiof line (will be) the promotion of cotton cultivation as well
as the purchase of the product." A similar somi-governmental corporation
has been organized for production of (wood alcohol).
Finance: The Central Benk of Thailand has been given a still larger
part of the dministration of governmint finances. "The Thei government
in the official gazotte under yesterday's dato ennounced the transfer
of all business portaining to reccipt, payment and possession of govorn-
mnt notes to th Contral Bank and elso ruthorized it to take over verious
other routin's portaining to the netional treasury" (Tokyo, English
Domei, July 15). Th broadcast concludes that tho benk is now the
"pivotal monetary organ of Thailand."
ODDS JD INDS
L nt: July 16th and 17th which mark tho opening of Buddhist Lont
wore public holidays in Thailand (Bangkok, July 13). In addition it was
report d that sormons would be broadcast on cach weckly Holy Day during
thpriod.
Race Groups: Indian residents of Thailand are "flowing to recruit-
ing officos" to volunteer for the Indian National Arny according to a
Trensoceen report of July 9. The report adds t hat there are "about
20, C00" Indians living in Thailand at the present.
Boats: The Thai govornment is making a determined effort to secure
tho uso of all borts in Thailand. Hotor and steemboats were to be turned
in to thc port authoritins by July 10 says Bangkok on July 5 and violators
of this rule would bo subject to a ponalty of 20, 000 baht or 20 years
imprisonment. On July 7 Bangkok told its dom stic audience that the
governnent was desirous of renting "nany motor boats" and that those who
wore willing to ront th ir boats should so notify the port authoritics.
After ordering Thais to turn in their boats by July 10 or facc e penalty
Bangkok on July 12, appealed to its listeners to rent then to the govern-
mont since the gasoline shortage made it difficult to operato the vessels.
"With the leck of gasoline it is better to got a small rent than for the
bont to remain idle."

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.99)
-K1 -
AUSTRALIA
Receiving only slight attention in Melbourne broadcasts of this past fort-
night, the lection campaign is overshadowed by the perennial issue of
federal-state relations revived last week at the State Premiers' Conference.
Australian war expenditures and an expanded shipbuilding program are
reported.
STATE PREMIERS ACCEPT FEDERAL COUNCIL
State Premiers and Federal Cabinet Ministers' meeting in Melbourne on
July 13 adopted a plan for a National Works Council. According to Mr.
Curtin, the Council will probably have a permanent status in peacetime,
and will then have executive authority for the general public works program
of the whole nation. For the duration of the war, however, it will limit
its activities to planning a comprehensive program of post-war reconstruc-
tion projects. The decision to form such a Council marks an important
departure from the existing policy in Australia in regard to public works;
they have in the past been directed by seven governments and many munici-
palities rather than one over-all agency.
Explaining to the Conference that the Commonwealth Ministry for Post-
War Reconstruction had already been established to assure smooth transition
without delay from war activity to peace-time programs and living standards,
the Prime Minister also pointed out that the planning at present was pre-
paratory and was intended to provide a sound foundation for post-war
activity. The successful completion of this task, he said, would call for
the use of Commonwealth and State administration. Treasurer Chifley, who
is Commonwealth Minister for Post-War Reconstruction, also emphasized the
necessity for a single authority to see that future undertakings were
properly related to one another. Other problems involved will be re-employ-
ment of men in peacetime occupations after demobilization from their present
jobs, decentralization plans, rural developments, housing, migration, and
overseas trade.
The National Works Council, which will be establfshed immediately, will
consist of representatives of the seven state governments in addition to
Mr. Curtin, who will serve as Chairman, and will meet late this year follow-
ing the federal election.
Also discussed at this Conference was a proposal by the Commonwealth
government that federal financial grants to the states should be reduced
or abolished where states were piling up surpluse as a result of the in-
creased volume of money in circulation arising out of war expenditures.
CAMPAIGN NOTES
The Case of the Missing Document: Inquiring into a statement made by
Labor Minister Warde that the Opposition had stolen a document from the
official defense files (see Radio Report on the Far East, No, 24, July 6,
1943, p. J-1), the Royal Commission of Investigation reported to Prime

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.99)
K2-
Minister Curtin that the files were complete and no dacument had been or
was missing. Following the release of this report, Mr. Curtin said that
since the rights and privilcges of Parliament were involved, Mr. Warde
would continue to abstain from the administration of his department. The
whole question will be submitted to the new Parliament when it meets after
the Federal election on August 21.
Political Information for Soldiers: Mr. Forde, Minister for the Army,
and Australian Army Chiefs are discussing a plan under which it will be
possible to place election issues before Australian soldiers without lift-
ing the Army ban on political. speeches in camps. It is expected that
arrangement will be made for publishing in Army journals the policy speeches
of each party leader with names, parties, and other necessary descriptions
of candidates.
WAR ECONOMY
Expenditures Summarized: During the past four years, Australia has
spent the equ1valent of $3,600,000,000 on the war. Of this $1,822,000,000
has been spent on war exponditures for the past year, according to a
report recently released by Treasurer Chifley. Civil expenditures for
the past year amount to only $351,O00,000. Income tax collections in-
creased from about $141,000,000 in 1941 to about $462,000,000 in the last
financial year. The actual returns were about $24,500,000 above these
estimated by the Treasurer.
Shibuilding Expansion: Undaunted by Berlin's report that Australian
shipyards and dry docks are so overtaxed with repairing ships that new con-
struction are entirely out of.the question (Transocean, July 6), the
Australian War Cabinet announces on July 10 that an expanded shipbuilding
program will be undertaken. Appropriations for building and repairs have
been increased by more than 33 1/3% on the advice of a special committee.
An important feature of the new plan is a provision for a fleet of 30 new
ships ranging from 10,000 to 20,000 tons for the Australian coastal and
Pacific island trade. Navy Minister Makin emphasized that naval and
merchant marine repairs will continue to have higher priority than new
construction, adding, however, that "The Australian shipbuilding industry
has come to stay. The foundations are being laid for an industry essential
to the future of an enormous maritime country" (Mclbourne in English to
Western North America).

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.98)
CONTENTS
Page
I.
Japan's Ambition for World Rule
2
II.
Japan's Activities in Latin America
19
Cultural and Racial Propaganda
19
"Scientific Missions"
23
Japanese in Business
23
The Japanese in Mexico
27
Cul tural Propaganda
30
Japan's Secret Army
33
The Japanese in Peru
40
Japanese Pcnetrat ion
41
Japan's Fifth Column
46
The Japanesc in Brazil
49
2
Forming "minoritics"
50
Their Schools and Propaganda
52
Their Trojan Horse Wrecked in Time
54
2
III. Mikado Worship to be the Religion
of the World.
62
IV.
Japan's Blueprint of its "New Order"
70
The Workers
71
The Peasants
72
The Upper Crust
73
The Women
74
Their Government and Policies
77
V.
Their "New Order" for the Rest of the Workd
80
Japancse Technique of "Living Space"
85
Japan's "spiritual culture" - myth
and reality
89
VI. Conclusion
94
VII. Bibliogra
97
B-0279-P3-NCMU-008-WP

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.97)
I
JAPANIS BITION FOR WORLD RULE
Japan's imperialism in Asia is not a purely Asdatio
affair of no concern to the other continents or the
rest of the world, as some still seem to believe.
Even if Japanese official assertions that their
ultimate ain is "only" a "Greater East Asia Co-Pro
perity Sphere" - be taken literally, this sphere wauld
incluae under Japan's control a population of more
than one thousand million people: the 450 million in
China, 40 million in Manchuria, the 350 million in
India, 20 uillion in Malaya and Thailand, 67 million
in the Lutch Indies, 23 million in Rorea, in addition
to the 80 million Jap anese in Japan proper. In the
regione which they conquered during 1943 and occupy at
present, they nor have all the tin, all the rubber,
netals and food stuffs and all the oil; they need for
a war which they say they are willing to contimue Tor
a hundred ycars" - "to dictete peace in the White Haase
of Vashington. And once in Washingtin,they will feel
strong enough to try to dictate to the rest of the
henisphere. How the ground work for this conguems
has been laid in Latin America is desoribed in dumpte
That their aspiretions of conquest and

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.98)
 but very gignificant, addition they mhde in 194s to
their aim of establishing the "Greater East Asta Co
Prosperity Sphere", under Japanese protecticn. Thie
addition is: "including the South Seas" - by which they
als meant Austral ia, an other continent ertirely in-
habited by people of European non-Asiatic origin. "South
Seas" is a very vague geographical term. The Southern
Pacific, as far as the shores of South America, may be
included in this tern.
If Japan is allowed to remain in possession of
its present conquests which gave it control over all the
.strategic war material, to continue wars indefinitely,
it will soon be able to conouer and subjugate the rest
of isia - the first step on its program. With the
countless armies it would be able to recruit from its
billion Asiatic subjects - Japan's war lords may feel
that they can take the next step to attempt the conquest
of the rest of the world - to realize their dream of
ruling all the peoples of this globo for their own profit
and glory.
Hitler's drcams of conquering Furope, as expressed
in his Mein Kampf were modest invisod compared with
those of the Japanese theoreticians End philosophers
of world conquest. For many years Mein Kampf was con-
aidered as the personal ravinge and bllucinations of
a paniac. Hitler'a theories and dreams were; for mny

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.99)
years, not shared by the majority of the Ga
When his book was published the then German govern
by no means approved his theories. But in Japan many
books advocating world conquest were and are being mub-
lished. by personalities occupying high posts in Japn's
navy, army or the government. They are published under
the protection or approval of the present regime whi ch
frankly expresses Japan's aspiration for world rule.
These books spread the theories that Japan is entitl ed
and called by destiny to rule the world. They spread
that gospel among the indoctrinated and fanaticized
population, to make it willing to die for the ideal
of conquering and subjugating the rest of the world
to place it under the rule of their divine emperor.
The mystic formula for this aspiration in Japanese
verbiage is the "ideal to unite the four corners of
the world under one roof, under the proteotion of me
God" - and this God is no other than the Emperor of
Japan.
A few quotations from some of the best known boks
or documents advocating the gospel of world conquss
by Japan and preparing the peoples for this offort,
will illustrate the spirit of present day Japan and
its government.
Only two years after the publication of the first
edition of Hitler's Mein Kampf. appeared the revelatiom-
of a Japanese confidential document, the famous

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.97)
oaial of the then Premier General Tanakh,
foll into the hands of the Chinese.'r The muthentiet
mof the aocument was violently denied by the Japanes
because it revealed prematurely their plans for the
conquest of Manchuria as the firet step for the con-
quest of all China and the rest of the world.
The Japanese accused the Chinese of forgery for
the deliberate purpose of creating ill-will mong the
nations. Tanak was quietly repleced and the sensation
subsided. Even those among the statesmen and jourraliste
of the Western world, who were convinced of the authen
ticity of the memorial dismissed it as a wiid, insane
dream, impcssirle of realization due to the poverty of
Japan's economic resources. But it was exactly the
unlimited scope of their ambitions  just as the fantrstio
ambitions of Hitler and the Fan-Germaniste,  Thich
prevented the world from taking them seriously.
Three years later the Japanesc began to put into
execution their program in China exactly to the letter
in accordance with the outline revealed.
This program was the:
Memorial presented to the Emperer ef Japan on July 2s1
By Premier General Baron Glichi Tanaka outlining
the positive policy in Manchuria.
A few quotat ions from this historical document tel)
us what tho Japanese have in store for us:
Ia order that
the colonizatidn of tde
opmont of our new oontin

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.98)
confor ncd was held from June 27th to Ju117th
laeting all eleven days. It wes sttended by
Manchuria anc Mongolia, whose ciscuseione wesult d
in the following resolution. Theee we rempeot-
fully submit to Your Majesty for consideration.
"For the sake of self-protection ae well
as the protection of others, Japan cannot remove
the difficulties in Eastern Asia unless she
adopts a policy of blood and iron. But in.
carrying out this policy we have to face the
United States which has been turned against
us in its China policy. In the future if we
want to control China, we must first crush the
United States just as in the past we hac to
fight in the Russo-Japanese War. But in order
to cnnquer China we must first conquer Manchuria
and Mongolia. In oruer to conquer the world.
we must first conquer China. If we succeed
in cnnguering China. the rest of the Asiatic
countries and the South Sa countries will fear
us ana surrenuer to us. Then the vorld mill
realize that Eastern Asia is ours anc, will not
dare to violate our rights. This is the plan
left to us by Emperor Meiji, tne success of
which is essential to our national existence.
"The Nine Power Treaty is entirely ad ex-
pession of the spirit of ommercial rivalry. It
was the intention of England and America to
crush our iniluence in China wi th their power
of weel th.  The proposed recuction of mrmaments
is nothing but a means to limit our military
strength, making it impossible for us to conquer
the vast territory of China.
"A more angerous factor is the fact that
the pe ople of China might some day wake up. Even
curing these yeare of internal strife, they can
still toil patiently, and try to-imitate and.
displace our goods so as to impair the develop
ments of our trade. When we remember that the
Chinese are our sole customere, we muet beware
lest one cay China becomes unified and her in-
dustries become prosperous...
"The way to gain actual righte in Manohuria
and Mongolia is to use this region ms a bite
and under the pretonoe of trade and pommerae
penetrate tho rest of Ohina. Armod by the
Asia, ane even Europe. But to get control of

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.98)
Manohuris is the first step if the Yamato
race wishcs to cdistinguish themeelves in
Continental Asia....
Premier Tanaka givcs his Emperor a report how
Japon's Fifth Column in China is working - in exact
replica of Japan's activities in Latin America, cis-
co vered fifteen years later:
"The princes of Outer and Inner Mongolia
have all shown sincere respect for us, es-
pecially after we allured them with special
benefits and protection. Now there are nine-
teen Japanese ret ired military officers in
the house of the Tushiyeh. We have poquire
already monopoly rights for the purohase of
wool, for real estate, and for mines. Here-
after we shall send secretly more retired
officers to live among them. They should wear
Chinese clothes in order to escape the attention
of the Mukden Government. Scattered in the
territory of th Prince, they may engage them-
selyes in farning, herding, and dealing in
woo1.
"Once we have purchased most of the land
there, there will be no room for cispute as
to whether Mongolia belongs to the Japanese or
the Mongolians.  Aided by our military prowess.
we shali realize our positive policy. In order
to carry out this plan, ve should appropriate
one mil!jon yen f rom the secret funds of the
army Dep   ment's budget so that four hundred
retired o icers disguised as teachers and
Chinese c izens may be sent into Outer and
Inner Mongolia to mix with the people, to gain
the confiuence of the liongolian princes, to
acquire from them rights for pasturage hrd mining
and to lay the foundation of our national intersts
for the next hundred years......
"Man churia and Mongolia are the Belgium
of the Far East.  In the Great War. Belgium
was the battlefield. In our wars with Russia
and the United States, me must also make Man-
churia and Mongolia suffer the ravages. As it
is evicent that me have to violate the neutral-
ity of these territories, we must build the.
Kirin-Hueining and Changchun-Talai Railmays
in order that we may be militarily paepared.

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.96)
and in time of veaon re oan sen
rork on the rice fielcs. This Tine offute the
Ley to economic devdopments as well as to
military conquests..
In Setember 1940, at the time of the triangulation
of the Axis, by the inclusion of Japan into the group
of the aggressor powers, Japan's Emperor issued an
imperial rescript, the folloming paseages of hich are
illumineting:
"It is the bequethed instruction of our
Imperial Ancestors that justice be enhanced
in all directions an the mhole universe be
placed unuer one roof. This instruction is th
one which We are faithfully observing day and
night...... we, therefore have orderet Our Govern-
ment. to nogotiate with Gernany ane Italy. both of
whom have the sane iceal and policy as Japan for
concert anc cooperat ion. It is source of Our
great joy to see that a t reaty has been concluced
Cuone the three countries..
"The construction of a new world order has
just started on its task. A group of liberal-
istic ana democratic nations, stancing for main-
tenance of the status quo, is uniting in their
front in an attenpt to check its realization.
"The ideals of Japan are to manifest-to
the entire worlc the spirit of her Empire-
founcing repres nt l by the principle that its
Capital may be xtendel so as to embrace the
six carlinal points. and that the eight corners
may. be coyered so as to form one roof.
There
is virtually no country in the world other than
Japan having such e superb and lofty miesion
bearing worlc significance. So it can be said
that the construction of a nem structure and
a defense stote is all in orrler that Japan may
revive her proper national structure ant come
back to her criginel status nf suppbrtink the
Throne by the myriad eubjects, thereby perfecting
the workings of national etrength ant leaving
no stono unturneu in (tsplaying her total power
to the fullest extent."")
 usted In Otto D. Tolishue: Toky Reoorc; Now Yok,
1643.

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.97)
In apite of its mystic and absttase verbiage the
meaning ia quite clear.
The Tanaka memorial, officially repudiated as a
cocument, but partly already naterialized as a historiol
fact, was followed a few years later by a "philosophical"
anu theoretical treatize to justify the aspirations
of the country's var lords.
In 1935, the former Japanese representative
the
Permanent Sccretariat of thc League of Nations. Oniko
Fujisawa, a. Professor of Political Science at Kyushu
University, gave a series of lectures at the exclusive
"Gr ater Ori ntal Culture Association", under the title
"Japanese Oriental Political Philosophy". 1hese 1 ctures,
later published in bonk form, are an apotheosis of
Japanese world lcadership based on Shinto cosmogeny.
In this bo k Fujisama announced that Japan's national
spirit is "infallible for all ages an valic in all
places", anu "provau" to th: satiefaction of his cis-
ciplcs, his ccuntry's auperiority over all other poples
of the worlu.
In 1940 the army-controllec "Imperial Rule Assis-
tance Asscciation" (Taisei Ypkesun Kei) appointeu him
Research Director of its Bureau for East Asiatic Affaire.
anu in this capacity he published in 1942 a new booklet,
intenued to popularize Japan's ideas of its mystic nision
to rule the werld. As the I. R. . A, ie now the only
permittel political party in Japan, this bocklet ts 

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.97)
official document. Whilc the Tanaka Memorinr was
kint of blue-print for world conquest for tha aray
the latest product of Fujisawa was intenced to use
the religious faith ane devotion of the great masses
of the people to mold it into militarist and imperiai
fonaticism.
This booklet is entitled:
"The Great Shinto Purification Ritual and the
Divine Mission of Nippon
- A Prophecy of the Dawn of a New Age."
The booklet referring to the Imperial Rescript
quoteu above, also printec. in English, hau the wicest
istribution throughout the Far East. It mace explid
what theretofore Japenese pronouncements hac. sai merc
by implication. It bluntly announce that Japan was
fighting by the comman. of the Japanese gous to "reuni
all nations under the rule of the Japanese Enperor "as
it vas in the beginning" when "mankind formed  single
Morlc-mide family system mith Mikoto (the Jmpanese
Emperor) as its hea(". icc rcing to thie Japinese
scientist, Japan was the original motherland of all
nations anc the cracle of civilization, from which
ther nations have streyed, and to which they muet
r turn. The whole warring worle, he proclained, must
be converted into one large family under the divine
rule of the Japanese Empcror, in which each matton
rill "take its own proper place". This no blandly
anncuncou. is the goal of "the civino mioston of wippor

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.99)
11
and the objective which Japan has been pursuing through
out her history."
"By keeping in mind the philosophical im-
plications one will be able to grasp the key-
note of the Imperial Rescript, at the time of
the conclusion of the Tripartite Pact. Therein
our gracious Tenno, Emperor Hirohito, proclaime
solemnly that the cause of great justice shoul d
be extended to the far end of the earth, so
as to turn the world into one household and
thus enable all nations to secure their due
places. This significant passage in the Rescrip
will clarify the very character of our August
Sovereign, ever anxious to act as the head of
an all-embracing universal fanily, in the
bosom of which all nations shall be alloted
their respective posts in a dynamic order of
harmony and co-operat ion....
"This is the objective of the divine missic
Japan has been called to fulfill from time imme-
morial. In a word, it is to permeate the whol e
earth with one cosmic vitality ombodied in
our Divine Sovereign so that all the segregated
national units may be led to re-unite them-
selves spiritually with the sincere feeling
of brothers sharing the same blood. Only in
this way will all the nations of the world be
induced to abandon their individualistic
attitude."
This is followed by an explanation that while
"Sumera Mikuni" is the poetic name of Japan, because
its meaning is the "all embracing and all-integrating
divine clime", the expressions "Sumera Mikoto" or
"Tenno", mean Japan!s Emperor or likado.
Thereupon our philosopher and theologian of
Japanese world rule continues:
"Mikoto is to be intcrpreted as the soul of
God or that of human beings. Hence, by Sumem
Mikoto is meant the major all-unifying life or
spirit...Sumera Nikuni, then, is the divine land
from which Sumera Mikoto wishes to undertake his
heavenly task of reconstructing one universal
B-02793014-1

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.98)
12
householc embracing all mankind. It is the
first ne foremost axiom of the way of the Gods
that mithout Sumera Mikoto no nation of the
world would have ever come into existance
because he proves the sole successor to the
Progenitross of the whole cosmos -- the Sun
Godcess. Inspired by sheer parental love
for all beings, Sumere Mikoto is ceeply con-
cerned with the attainment of their welfare
an prosperity. He cares for all incivicuals
an all nations as if they were born as his
own beloved chilcdren; he besoeches them to
assist him wholeh artedly in the accomplishment
of His Divine mission bequethed by his ceified
forbearers.
"However, shoule any porverse nation dare
obstruct Sumera Hikoto:in the carrying cut of
his celestial unuertakinf, he will resort,
though reluctantly, to arms for the purpose
of constraining that nation to come back to
the right path anu to collaborate vith Sumera
Mikuni once more with ficelity. It is just
as a mother chastises her naughty child into
obeience so that his coneuct may be duly roc-
tifieu."
Chastisement, he explained, is the purpose of
Japan's war a ainst the United States anc Britain, in
vhich:
"Thanks t. the earnest prayers fferee by
the Japanese Emp rr to the spirit of the Sun
Godcess, divine power hae at last been m bil-
ized to deal a thorough-going blor to those
revolting rainst inviolable cosmic law."
"Th- holy war launched by Sumora Mikuni
will soonor or later awaken all nations t
the cosmic truth that their respective national
lives have been issued forth from the one ab-
solute life-center embodied by Sumere Mikoto
and the peace and harmony of the vorld cannot
be realized otherwise than by reorganizing
them into one all-embracing family system under
the guidance of Sumera Mikoto."
B-0279-P15-BU-008-WP

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.99)
一13
In 1940 the former Japanese Minieter of War,
General Sadao Araki published in the "Records of the
Marchers Club", a monthly circulating among ex-service
men, a signed article, entitled "Japan's Mission in
the Reign of Showa" (the pr esent Emperor of Japan).
The most outspoken passage reads:
"The great vision of our people stands
in urgent need of being proclaimed to the
corners of the four seas and established in
this war..... This vision was proclaimed when
Emperor Jimmu..... issued an Imperial proc-
lamation on his ascension to the throne....
after the conquest of the eastern barbarians.
This proclamation reads: 'To accept with regard
to the past the mission of our ancestors to
give life to the state and greatly to nourish
and increase with regard to the future. In
accordance with our Imperial Ancestor's ambition
I now establish my capital to conquer the whole
world and to embrace the whole universe as our
state.
"Now to fulfill this vision, 'to :conquer
the world and embrace the universe as our state!
so as to satisfy Emperor Jimmu's desire, Igreat1
to nourish and increase' has been our traditiona.
policy..... The Manchurian incident, viewed in
this light, has very great significance. Under
the direction of heaven, Japan has put forward
the first step."
On another occasion the same General Araki, referrin
to the United States, declared:
"Our country is designed to propagate it s
national ideal over the seven seas and to ex-
pand and divulgate it over the five continents
of the globe, even if it should be necessary to
use force."
A book written by Lt. General Kiyokatsu Soto, en-
titled: "Japanese-United States War Eminent?" - has
B-0279-P16-BU-008-WP

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.98)
been on sale Tor several years, befofe the
of the present war. The U. S. Congressional
on Un-American activities obtained a tranalation of
this book, a few passages of which, quoted here. tell
us what the Japanese have in store for al1 Amerioas:
"When and where a Japanese-American War
will be fought we cannot say. If the United
statue carries out her traditional policy to
full extent, then she is bound to clash with
Japan sooner or later on the China question
which is vital to the existance of this country.
"We shall have to settle the question by
force of arms, if diplomatic negotiations fail.
"If the Japanese Navy succceds in crushing
the American fleet in the Pacific, landing on
the Pacifio coast of Americe would brcome easy.
At the same time the Panama canal must be des-
troyed, as the maintenance of traffic through
it mould facilitate replenishment of the Americar
Navy. Attacks should be made on the canal by
an ffectiv- air fleet. The destriction of the
Canal and the American fl et would be literally
half the battle. Thus will end the second period
of the war.....
"Ihe third period would begin with the
landing of Japanese forces on the Western coast
of the American continent and the mork of
destroying the cities and neval ports on the
west coast...
"Bach period would probably last several
years; th: third and fourth period fould last
four or five years: It might even drag out to
last scveral score years.
In 1940 appeared in Tokyo a book entitled "The
Three Power Alliance and. the United States-Japanese
Wer". Its author was Kinonki Mateuo, a high official
of the Black Dragon Society, a religious-political

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.98)
organization of fanatical militarist! wielding a dech
sive influence in Japan's expantionist policy. In t
preface the author thanks the Intelligence Bureau of
the Navy Department for the help it gave him in pre-
paring the book, published for the purpose of allaying
apprehensions about the power of America. The book
was first translated for the Special Committee on
Un-American Activities of the United States House of
Representatives (the "Dies Committee) *) and appeared
later in 1942, in the United States in book form under
the title "How Japan pIans to Win". It was translated
by Kilsoo k. Haan, the Washington representative of the
anti-Japanese Sino-Korean Peoples League, It is a
handbook for Japanese espionage and gives full details
about America's naval and air power and describes how
Japan will take Singapore, Guam, the Malayas, the Phil ix
pines, Burma, and Hawai. Except for taking Hawai the
program was executed to the letter as predicted in his
book a year before Pearl Harbor. The author, taking
the loss of Hawai, following the defeat of the American
flect for granted, writes that aftor "she (the United
States) loses her naval pomer, no matter how much her
air power and chemical warfare develops, they will be
Investigation of Un-American Propaganda Activities.
Hearing Before a Spe cial Committee of Un-American Activ-
itias. House of Representatives... ?7th Congress.
Appendix Report on Japanese Activities. nmternment
Printing Office, Washington, 1942.

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.98)
uselces, and she'might as wall surronder
time she loses Hawaii." (p. 300).
He continues:
"It is neceseary for Japan to occupy the
Panama Canal Zone and even administer it mfter
the war, for future peace will largely depend
upon it....
"So long as it (the Canal) remains in the
hands of Japan the United States fleet will
be separatod so that it cannot get together
in time of war.... Thus for the first time the
world will be restored to peacc by force of
arms, and in China we mill be able tome estab
lished a real Co-Prosperity Sphere in the East.
immune from the intervention of Europe and Adertc
Besides, liexico and all other small countries o
Central and South America will be saved from th
threat of the United States.
..obviously to be pl ced under the benevolent
protection of Japan.
In the Three Pover Alliance between Germany, Italy
and Japan c∞ncluded in 1940:
Clause I stipulates: Japan recognizee and respecte the
leadership of Germany ana Italy in connegtion
Vith the establishment of the New. Order in Euror
Clause II says: Germany and Italy recognize and respoa
the leadership of Japan in connection with the
establishment of the New Order in the Far East.
In one chapter, entitled "Meaning of the Triple
Alliance", me rend in Matsuo's book:
"Only the flag of the sun which symbolizes
our nation would fly over the Paoific. On the
Atlantic the Swastika which alao symbolizes the
sun and life will be eotive with'mlght
Thus, in thie noat distribution of the wor
is included in the "muropean", Bphere,

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.98)
Australia, and the "Pacific", whatever that meone, in
the Japanese sphere.
If we consider that Japan holds today - Korea,
Manchuria, Hongolia, great areas in China proper,
Formosa, Indochina, Thailand, Burma, and the Andamans.
the entire Halay Peninsula, Hongkong, and Singanore,
the Philippines, the Netherland East Indies, and farthe
to the south and to the east, myriads of islands many
of which are unsinkable aircraft carriers, and that
the.iron deposits in Manchuria and liongolia are estimat
by the Japanese at 1,200, 000,000 tons, coal ceposit
at 2,500, 000,000 tons and timber at 2,000,000 tone, -
the threat cannot be aisuissed lightly. These deposits
could last Japan for 200 years - and enahle it to vage
wars indefinitaly - if Japan's nower is not destroyed
within a few years.
Japan and Hitler-Germany are still allies. But
both claim the rule of the world. The Germans still
sing "und morgen gehort. uns die ganze Welt" ("and
tomorrow the whole world will belong to us".) For
the present however, Hitler and Hirohito seem to be
satisfied.with dividing the world between then. The
Japanese still speak about "dictating peace in :"shington
The late Japanese admiral Isoroku Yamamoto said that
.the war will be concluded with washington and London
"begging for peace on their knees". They do not spek
much of Latin Amcrica, because after the defeat - patoh.

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.99)
they fancy of the United States, the strongest
in the Americas, the country which has more inhabitan
than all the rest of the Americas. all Latin America
coula fall into thcir lap, so they believe, like 
ripe fruit after, at best, an ineffectual defense.
Accepting for argument's sake the hypothesis of
a victory of the Axis, another war mould be fought in
the future between the Nazi Empire and that of the
Rising Sun, to decide who shall sit on the single throne
of the morld. Such a mar "ould hring about the total
devastation of the lands in hich it mould be fought,
and the final destruction of human civilization. It
would be fought vith the help of German and Japanese
Fifth Columns in the Americes, the only place where
Germany and Japan could fight it out.

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.98)
19
II.
JAPANESE ACTIVITIES IN LATIN
AMERICA
Japan's interest in Latin America began shortly
after the first World War, and became more insistent
after Hitler's ascent to power. Particularly since
the outbreak of the present var in Europe, Japan in-
creased its effort toward closer relations with Latin
America. Innumerable commercial, scientific and
cultural missions arrived in almost all these countries,
headed by suave and polished Japanese gentlenen who
spoke Spanish or Portuguese fluently. Some missions
came over to visit and see the country for the promotion
of Japanese tourist travel. They negotiated trade
agr ements, mostly for th purchase of strategic materinll
for which they offered, frequently on a barter basis,
consumer goods manufactured under the extremely low
wage conditions of Japanese labor, at prices below those
of American or European products.
Cultural and Racial Propaganda
It must be admitted that in their "cultural" propa-.
ganda the Japanese shor considerable subtlety, certainly
more than the Germans or ven the Anglo-Saxons. They
seem generally quite content in publishing purely
abstract cultural articles without any special refer-
ence .to imnediate sims. They supply to magazines
B-0279-P22-BU-6OB-WP

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.99)
and newspapers articles and stories about Japanese
life and travel, art and history in such form that
not the slightest impression is left that political
or commercial propaganda was intended. Various
Japanese propaganda Bureaus in almost all Latin American
countries were sending,and in a fev countries still
do send out, to magazines and newspapers, free material
translated into perfect Spanish or Portuguese....They
also learned from North America the art of getting
free nevs or editorial space, along with their ad-
vertising. In one or two countries their embassies
maintain special pess attachés.
Besides numerous Japanese organizations in the
various countries, Tokyo has or had many societies
for the promotion of good-will with Latin-America:
such as the Japan-Argentina Society, the Hexico-Japanese
Society, the Associação Central-Nippo-Brasileira, etc
These societies and the Japanese government send
out lecturers, who speak perfect Spanish or Portuguese,
to talk at universities, clubs and elsewhere on Jop-
anese culture, on sciencc, philosophy, history, math-
ematics, and kindred subjects. Japanese poets, riters
and painters have been subsidized. Japanese theater
troupes, musicians, singers, were aleo sent out, even
leaders of Oriental religious cults, ho find converts
anong persone groming skentical of the traditional
religions.
Radio programs are broadcast in Spanish
and Portuguese.

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.97)
-21-
One of the very-suocessful propaganda methods,
cloaked in cultural-scientific theories, is the spread-
ing of the hypothesis that the native Indians of the
Amerigan .continent and their Maya and Inca cultures
came from Japan, and that thus the Japanese are racial
brethren of the aborigines and mixed races of the
Americas. as in Latin-America the mixed races are
considereblymore numerous thn the pure white element,
this propaganda is sometimes quite effective.
These theories also affirm that Manco Kabac, the
founaer of the Inca Empire of Tahuantinsuyo, was a
Japanese. On this subject even Peruviane have written.
Francisco A. Loayza, a Peruvian mestizo and well knawn
journalist, wrote a book maintaining that "anco Kapac
was of Japanese origin. He sunported his thesis with
: etymological comparisons of many place names; both
Japanese and Peruvian, and with the meaning of the
name Manco Kapac in Japanese.
Loayza sustained this thesis at the Twenty-secom
International Congress of mericanists in Rome. "ost
of his arguments were philological and etymological .
He regarded the institution of Amautas (Inca sages and
teachers) as typically Japanese. He described hor the
Japanese managed to reach the Peruvian coast, Folloring
..the kuro-Sivo current, ianko, Kapac, according to Loayza,
landed in Arroa Bay. turned eround. and then climbed
to the korro, which wae to become famous later during
the Pacific War through the heraic saortfice of Colonel

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.98)
22
Francisco Bolognevi and Colonel igarte. After he had
seen some of the poor natives, "the alturistio spirit
of Manco Kapac assumed the philanthropic duty of
civilizing them. And he devisec the glorious program
of his apostolic ana constructive mission".....*)
Though it is not likely that Loayza, who had livec
for two years in Japan, developed these theoriee to
please the Japanese, the latter warmly welcomed his
thesis and made it their own. They teach it in their
schools and try to transform speculation into popular
conviction in Asia as well' as in the Americas. The
legend that the first Inca emperors dropped directly
from the sun on the islands of the Lake Titicaca,
where their empire began: and the Japanese myth, tough
in all their schools, that the founder of the Japanese
empire was a direct descendent of the Sun Goddess,
helped to spread belief in this mythical ideology.
It is also significant that the only one monument
to a pre-Columbian historical or mythical figure in
Peru is the statue to llanko Kapac in Lima, which was
presented by thc Japanese colony in Peru on the oooamn
of the hundreath anniversary of Peruvian independene
"Scientific"!fission.
Japanese "scientific" missions often obtained
) Francisco A. Loayza: Manko Kapac, El fundador,del
Imperio de los Inkas fie Japones. - Para,
1926,
p.111.

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.98)
23
permission to prospect for oil and other ra mato
which they need for their war preparatignes
also biading for all kinds of engineering projects
and public works such as dams, vater supply plants,
harbor improvements, particularly near the Pacific
coaet.. Nobody knows better how to operate such plant:
than those who buiit them, and, due to intricate sec-
rets in some of such installations, they aleo know
best hom to render them useless in a few moments. if
so desired.
This was well illustrated by a recent event. On
March 17, 1943, fire destroyed the Tominaga rubber
factory in Lima, the only one in all Peru. This
factory, which had been owned and onerated by Japanese
for many years, was taken over by the Peruvian govern-
ment in accordance with the law providing for the.
liquiuation of Japanese interests. But as there were
no Peruvian technicians available, four Japanese
experts were left in charge over the rest of the
Peruvian employees. On the very day when. the final
papers for the transfer of the property to the state-
controlled Banco Industrial were to be signed, a
petroleum motor under the direct supervision of
Japanese expert technician exploded and caused the
destructive fire.
Japanese_in ugin s
Thile most of the Japanese immigrants in Iatin

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.99)
America mere engaged in humble tasks, working as
agricultural laborers, fishermen, barbers or domestic
servants, often entirely out of proportion to their
education, others gradually acquired large cotton,
rice, sugar, coffee, and cattle estates, usually
situated near important ocean or river ports, and
often near airfielas or on plains which could easily
be transformed into airplane landing places. On
these estates they employ their compatriots. T
They
were also greatly interested in fishery concessions
on the West coast of Central America, particularly
of Costa Rica and near islanas on both sides of the
Panama Canal. Large flat acreages near Puntarenas
in Costa Rica were rented by a Japanese official
supposedly for cotton experimentation. Thie land is
only two hours flight from the Panama Canal.
Thus they tried to secure fishing rights in the
Galapagos islands off the coast of Ecuador. These
islands are ideally situated for a stopping place
for airplanes from Japan or Japanese airplane carriers
for an attack on Central America. On the other side
of the Canal the Japanese tried a few vears ago to
obtain fishing concessions in Cuba through native
go-betweens. A high Japanese official, K. Uchyama,
was sent to Cuba to sign a special most-favored-nation
trade treaty. Japanese fishermen were allowed to
swarm about the landlocked harbors that abound on both
B-0279-P27-BU-C0S-WP

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.99)
25
sides of the island. The Japanese did not get their
concession but the Japanese "fishermen" got all the
soundings they wanted. Panama city itself was in-
fested with Japanese barbors, who had nothing to do
except listen to the talk of their occasional cus-
tomers.
Under the cloak of the commercial interest Japan-
ese consulates and embassies made many official.in-
quiries which were obviously of strategic value. Thus
a few years ago Japan asked for informattion concerning
the facilities anu capacity of the San José -Puntarenas
railway line in Costa Rica, but the authorities refused
the information on the ground that this information
was more important to possible troop transportation,
than for tourist promotion.
.As late as 1940 Japanese diplomats and special
envoys were still receiving warm welcomes in almost
all Latin American countries. The Japanese pointed
out that with the closing of the European markets
for Latin American goods, and the inability of the
United States to buy them due to the lack of shipping
space, Japan was becoming the best customer.
In that
year Jatsuo Kawai visited Venezuela, Panama, Colombia,
Ecuador, and Peru and pointed out that his country
was buying more in Latin countries than it was selling.
In South America the Japanese also tried repeatedly
to acquire property on the Pacific coast. In Colombia
B-0279-P28-BU-C0S-WP

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.99)
they have a settlement of several hundred persons
near Cali in the Cauca Valley, adjacent to Panama
and tried to purchase 400,000 acres, (160,000 hectares)
more for colonization.
. There were large Japanese
fishing fleets on the coasts of Colombia, Equador,
Peru, and Chile, and a Japanese-Argentine fishing
Company still operates in the South Atlantic.
In Ecuador the Japanese have created a quite
original industry. Many gullible North American
tourists are anxious to buy as souvenirs the famous
"shrunken heads" supposed to be made by the Jiyara
Indians from the heads of their killed enemies. Such
trade does not reflect very favorably n Ecuador,
because it produces the impression that Equador is
still inhabited by head hunting savages. The fact
is that these "shrunken human heads" are heads of small
monkeys, skillfully prepared by the Japanese for the
American tourist trade. They also manufacture and
sell most of the famous "Indian" spears and blow pipes.
The height of Jap nese presumption in Latin America
was reached when, after the attack on Pearl Harbor,
the Japanese government protested to the Panama govem-
ment
"in the name of all Asiatic peoples" for closing
Japanese businesses. It demanded that Panama "recon-
sider" its action, and "suggested" to the Panama
government that it "revert to its free independent
policy in settling this unpleasant question without
being influenced in any way by any foreign power."
1-0279

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.99)
一27
Panama, of course rejected thisorotest as insulting.
But the principal and most dangerous activities
were concentrated in Mexico, Peru, and Brazil, which
are treated in the following sections.
The Japanese in Mexico
Mexico not only broke relations, but has actually
been at war with Japan since May 1942. No longer is
the Japanese embassy in Mexico in a position to listen,
see and report on joint United States-Mexico defense
activity along the West coast of Mexico. Despite
the relatively small number of Japanese and the un-
known strength of the pro-Axis elements among the
Mexican Sinarquistas who are probably inspired by the
Spanish Falangists, the Mexican government took,
since Pearl Harbor, energetic measures to hamper all
Japanese attempts working through Mexican fascist
groups to isolate Mexico from the United States.
Japan's long range colonization and investment
program along Mexico's Pacific coast, a program in
which military considerations were paramount, has
been completely upset.
For many years, Japanese government agencies,
development and colonization companies have been
interested in agriculture, water power, business
opportunity, immigration and colonization along the
West coast of Mexico. On the Pacific, Mexico has
B-0279-P50-BU-00B-WP

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.99)
-28
a longer strategic coastline than that of Paoifio
United States. It also has a large Japanese popu-
lation, closely linked by ties of discipline, banking.
family and clan, business and trade to the Japanese
born in America (the nisei) as well as those born
in Japan, now living in California.
The fornation of the Kagai Kogyo Kaisha (Inter-
national Development Corporation) in 1917 opened
the era of planned organization of Japanese in igm ticr.
capital and shipping into Hexico, as well as the
rest of Latin America. The offices of K. K. K. super
vised their commercial and financial interests in
that country. Life for the Japanese emigrant in
Mexico is not very different from that of their brethre
in Brazil or Peru. Most West Coast enterprise was
in agriculture and fishing, but Gulf activity was
largely in oil and mining. Their fishing occupation
brought them into close relation with San Diego
and Lower California canneries. For agriculture,
they chose the few,. but fertile, river valleys that
flow to the Paoific.
Since 1932 Japanese trade missions and a Chamber
of Commerce tried to expand commercial relations
with Mexico. Between 1931 and 1938 Japanese trade
with liexico in rayon, electric bulbs, toys and small
machines increased eightfold, and between 1938 and
1940 Hexican exports to Japan of oil, zinc, lead

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.99)
29
and mercury took on added importance.
Up to the war, two Japanese companies owned oil
concessions in Mexico: the La Laguna (in the Poza
Rica &ields near Vera Cruz) which produces crude
oil, and the Conpañia Petrolera Veracruzana, owning
drills in the Panuco region.
Some of the exports to Japan from Mexico in
1940 came to the Pacific port of Salina Cruz from
Japanese owned fields.
The activity of Japanese fishing boats off
Lower California and the Gulf of California began
to increase before the war.
Cperated by the Taiyo
Sangyo Kaisha from San Diego, Tijuana and Guaymas,
the Japanese competed with Hexican-owned West Coast
fishing fleets operating from mazatlan. In 1939 it
was reported by the Mexican press that Japanese
radio transmitters were raided at Guaymas. The ships
of the Japanese fishing fleet v'ere described as being
formerly in the British Coast Guard service, of
650 tons, steel-hulled, with enplacements for three
inch guns and nachine guns. Fishing activity has no
connection with the investment of Mitsui and Iwai
(represented in Mexico by Nogabushi), who have re-
peatedly sought to obtain salt concessions in Lower
Califomia, near the Bay of Ojo de Liebre; and
proposed to build a 50-mile railroad to the Gulf
opposite the port of Guaymas, in Sonora.
Japan took from Mexico only what was needed
for Japanese industrialization and rearmament,

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.98)
一 30一
and especially for the war in China and the indue-
trializetion of Manchuria. Mineral exports from
Mexico (mercury, antimony, lead), excluding oil,. rose
in value from.3,590,976 pesos in 1938 to 9,393,887
pesos in 1939.
"Cultural" Iropaganda
The Japanese military machine is at present in
possession of oil; antimony and cotton supplies to
make Tokyo independent of Mexican exports. Japanese
"cultural" propaganda in Mexico, vas, however, more
important. Tokyo organized a campaign of "scientific"
arguments and political propaganda to go with ex-
pansion, emigration and conmerce in the Pacific.
Japan's aim was to foster iexican and Latin-American
friendship and neutrality during a war in the Pacific,
and particularly the isolation of Mexico and the
United states during wartime.
Though the Japanese failed in this, it may be
useful to describe their methods. It was difficult
to separate Japanese propaganda from that of the
Axis before Mexico declared var, May 22, 1942. Since
the fall of Manila, Hexican Fascists have recalled
the ancient. colonial bond between New Spain and the
Philippines. Today, the Fifth Column in Mexico,
which once applauded the American defeat by the Japan-
ese and applauded the Japanese "liberators" of Luzón.

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.98)
-31-
is under control. To these groups, Mexico should
have been an ally of Japan. *)
Pro-Japanese propaganda was observable in Mexican
Fascist-inclined grouns, aided by theories emanating
from Japan. Tucre usea to be a good deal of this
type of wishful thinking for a defeat of the United
States by Japan. Its history in Mexico among its
aaherents goes back to 1912, when the United States
protested against the attenpts of the earliest Japan-
ese colonization companies to exploit strategic
Magdal ena Bay, on the West Coast of Mexico (Lower
California). The Japanese cleverly associated a
scientific doctrine with its "cultural" propagonda
purporting to show that the great civilizations and
people of pre-Columbian America (ospecially the
Mexican Aztec, Maya, Toltec and Zapotec) are basically
Asiatic, that is, they originated vithin Japanese
cultural areas. This hypothesis was repeatedly em-
phasized in articles, Japanese missions, lectures,
advertisements, education and student tours.
Leading lexicans were well aware, before the
declaration of war, of Japanese expansionist policies.
Few prominent Hexicans shut their eyes to Japan's
naval po-er. They rejected the illusion "that Japan
For detailed report on Japanese-Falangist cooper-
ation, see section on "The Spanish World Axis."
page 275, Covering the liexican Front. By Betty Kirk,
University of Oklahoma Press, 1942.
B-0279-P3K-BU-00B-WP

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.98)
一32
is a toy country, where child-men play at being
Europeans." In 1935, Andrés Holina Enriquez, "Grand
Old Man" of the Mexican Revolution, proposed a new
amenament to the Monroe Doctrine, this tine aimed
al Asiatic aggression in the Americas: "All free
nations of America will consider an attack on any
one of them, on the part of one or more Asiatic
povers, as an attack on all." This was a Mexican
contribution to hemispheric unity long before the
war began. It proposed to create a front of Latin-
American states against the Japanese menace. Molina
Enriquez foresaw war riding in the Pacific, and de-
nounced both Pan-Hispanic and pro-Japanese pr opagand-
ists who were trying to isolate the United States
in order to undermine the common continental interest,
needed to maintain peace.
The Mexican West Coast, with its Japanese pop-
ulation in the north-west, near the American border,
is peculiarly adapted to submarine bases, and within
bomber range of Boulder Dam, Kelly and Randolph Fields,
Southern California, and in a different direction, the
Canal Zone.
Mexico followed her own declaration of war early
in June by moving Japanese nat ionals inland or to
concentration camps. Several hundred Japanese com-
prising the key men of the Japanese colonies, are
held on a ranch near Toluca. And at least 1,500
B-0279-P35-BU-008-WP

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.99)
33
Japanese have been moved from coastal settlements in-
land.
Japan's Secret Army
Two Jananese spies, ecuipped vith a wireless
outfit and topographical maps showing every inlet
of the highly strategic Magdalena Bay coast, were
seized at the port of San Blas, Hayarit, by Mexican
soldiers. in November, 1942, according to a press news
dispatch. Six Japanese were captured bv Mexican
authorities at t heir hiding place in Aguascalientes.
after defying orders of the Mexican Government to
move from the coast inland to Mexico City. According
to. another Associated. Press dispatch of November 1942,
a Japanese dentist, who had for years been operating
on more than teeth, was nabbed in. the oil port of
Tampico by liexican secret police, when it was dis-
covered that he was a high ranking naval officer.
These are but fragmentary reports on fexico's
open war against hidden Jap anese. They represented
but a part of her relentless battle to rid her vul-
nerable coasts and interior of Axis agents of all
nationalities. Long before she herself went to war,
she started this purge of the Fifth Column. Her
first move was to break relations with Germany, Italy,
and Japan, immediately after the Japanese attack on
Pearl Harbor. She deported their conniving diplomats,
many of whom directed the espionage activities within

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.98)
- 34 -
her bordors. Iycluded in these were the Japanes
Captain Hamanaka, and the German Baron von Walkehburg.
They were sent to the United States, later to be
exchanged for U. S. diplomats abroad.
Next, Mexico rounded up succeeding bevies of
Gestapo and Black Dragon Society brain trusters and
shipped them to the United States for interment
in. concentration camps there. Among them were two
German key men, Karl Kordeb and George Nicolaus,
and also the mysterious Dr. Tauru, credited with
being the representative of the Black Dragon Society
in Mexico.
The Mexican Government continues an unceasing
search for the other Japanese hidden in her dense
tropical regions, her mountain wildermesses flanking
the virtually unpopulated coasts. For by sheer
statistics the government kmows that the land is still
honeycombed with Japanese agents, many belonging to
the exclusively Japanese, highly organized Mexican
Military Service Men's Association.
These statistics reoord that 2,600 Japanese
were registered at the Japanese Legation and Consul-
ates when war broke. Yet not all Japanese nationals-
in fact, none of the espionage ring -- were listed
by their government. Reliable estimates inorease the
number to 4,500 seattered throughout the Republic.
And the generally accurate newspaper El Univermal,
B-0279-P37-BU-008-

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.98)
-.35
in a report made carly in June, 1942, lieted Japaneso
resiaents in Mexico as high as 6,232. From the con-
servative estimate of 4,500. subtract the 1,500 offio
ially announced as having been sent inland from the
coasts, and there remain 3,000 Japanese at large. Or
to be even more cautious, 1, 500 subtracted from the
2,600 registered at the Legation and Consulates still
leaves 1,100 sons of Nippon on the loose.
These are the figures which have put the Mexican
Government on the alert, which inspire a day-and-night
hunt for hidden Japanese. The search presents a
particularly critical problem to the Mexican author-
ities, because many Japanese bear a certain racial
resemblance to the Mexican Indian. hen mingled with
the pure Inaian types found in the undeveloped regions,
a Japanese can pass vithout notice, if he is garbed
as the Indians are and speaks their colloquial lang-
uage. Such aisguises are part of the armor with which
the Japanese Fifth Column is girded to carry on its
subversive work.
Behind these cold statistics lurks a greater
danger, a more immediate threat to. the safety of
the lexican people and their allies. This is the
discovery, ma de but a few months ago, that Japan
has a skeleton army in Mexico.
Japan's skeleton army is under the direct command
of Premier General Hideki Tojo. This army, mumbering

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.99)
一36
. 300 men, is divided into three groups. At the top
are, or were, thirty high ranking army and navy
officers, The second group includes men who have
had military service; and the.third comprises men
eligible for military service.
All branches of Hirohito's war machine are rep-
resented in the skeleton army, known officially as
the Mexican Military Service Len's Association. Among
them are infantry, cavalry, artillery,. sailors and
their officers, transport experts, communications and
radio technicians and even male nurses Most import-
ant of all, however, are the intelligence agents,
directed by a ranking naval officer.
One month before the attack on Pearl Harbor,
these 300 men met in the village of Mexicali, Lower
California. They were there in full uniform to re-
ceive praise for work done, and orders for future
operations.
Both came from General Hideki Tojo, then Minister
of war, who within a few weeks became Japan's Premier.
Proof of General Tojo's airect command of his army
in Mexico was found in a document, signed with his
own seal, in which he thanked his 300 agents for
their expert services and contributions to the war
fund. Next, it warned them to be prepared and to
await further orjers. Printed in Japanese script
on hoavy cream colored paper, bordered *ith an engr

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.99)
- 37-
design, it was as formal as a diplomatic notc.
Captain Hamanaka, naval and military attaché
at the Japanese Legation in Mexico City, prcsided at
this neeting.
. After the impressive message was
read from the War Minister, he called for individual
reports to be made by each man pregent to the chief
of the Intelligence Division, which operated under
the name of the Japanese Association of Lower Calif-
ornia.
Captain Hamanaka at this meeting appointed special
committees to whip up morale among the widespread
Japanese colonies, obviously in preparation for the
great task Japan haa before her. Other members were
appointed to collect more funds for the war effort.
Then the meeting was dissolved, after the group had
observed a moment's silence for the dead in the China
war, bowed to the Emperor's portrait, and shouted
banzai three times.
The uniforms which had glittered during the
meeting were doffed.
Naval commanders and army
colonels were again transformed into barefoot fish-
ermen, poverty-stricken farmers, or modest barbers,
and returned to their humble dwellings along the
Mexican coasts, or about the vital mines and oil
fields. These threadbare "peasants" form an es-
pionage network th ughout Mexico today.
Because
of its successful camouflage -- which no Nazi nor

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.98)
-38
Italian Fascist could imitate --.it is a epy aystem
almost impqssible to track down.
That.some of these men are being apprehended
is evident through the announcements which appear
in the press from time to time. That others will
be uncovered ana jailed is also certain, in view
of the vigorous activities of the Mexican officials
seeking them. But that all 300 Japanese can be ap-
prehended before they acomplish their deadly tasks
is doubtful:
These deadly tasks are manifold. They are to
wireless boat movements to waiting submarines on
either the Pacific or Gulf coasts. They are to plot
sabotage. agai nst those boats and the ports where they
get fuel. They are to damage, if possible, the oper-
ation of Mexican oil wells and mines producing strat-
egic metals, and to follow up by wrecking trains carry-
ing those precious cargoes.
In 1941 the new Chinese Minister Mr. Ching-Tien-Ku
arrivea in ifexico at the same time as a Japanese
mission for the purpose of e stablishing. "friendly.
relations ana trade between Japan and fexico." Mr.
Ching-Tien-Ku who was a member of the Central Committe
of the Kuo-lfing-Ku and linister of Commerce and In-
duatry in the Chiang-Kai-Shet government was. however,
able to inform Mexico of the real objectives of Japan.
He pointed out that:

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.97)
-39-
"Japan's mission was to open a gateway
through the states of Sonora and Sinaloa for
an attack upon the southern border, of the
United Statos. These states, sparsely popu-
leted and undefended, were honeycombed with
Japanese "farmors" and "fishermen", and the
Japanese fishing: fleet, operat ing in Magdalona
Bay, knew every inlet and cove.
"Italy and Germany were ready to strike
in Latin Anerica at a moment's notice, and
lir. Yamagata had beon sent to instruct all
Japanese diplomats and colonies to co-operate
fully with her Axis partnors, particularly
in sabotage and subversive activities.
"The Japanese vere desperate for raw
materials and would attempt to sabotage
the recently signed Douglas-Weichers agrcement
by which the United Stat's agreed to absorb
all exican strategic mutals and Mexico re-
fus a to sull then to the Axis powers. To
do this the Japanuse woula folloy their usual
tactics of ovurbiduing computitors.
"Japan sought to insure the neutrality
of the Latin Anerican governments in order
to have a source for raw matcrials, should
the United States enter the war.  Her offer
would be the usual bonanzas vhen the Axis won "
Mexico's war against thosc hidden enemies is,
fortunately, ably nd energctically conducted by the
lHinistry of th Interior, and its department of
Political and Social Investigation, aided by an ex-
port Tilitary Intelligence Department from whose
keen surveillance little cscapes.
This section has been prepared mainly, on the basis
of quotations and condensation from articles and
chapters of: Betty Kirk: Hexico's War on Hidden
Japanese, published in the January, 1943 1ssue or
The Inter-American (Washington): of Henry Bernetein:
Hexicorg War With Japan, in the issue of November 30.,
Covering The Bexican Front, públished in 194a,

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.98)
-40-
The Japanese in Peru
In the bestern bulge of South America, in Peru,
which was the first to establish diplomatic relations
with Japan (1873), its subjects began to arrive.
shortly before the end of the twentieth century. At
that time they unaoubtedly came for the sole purpose
of earning a living, without any ulterior political
motivcs. They first morked on cotton and sugar plant-
ations but after some time started to drift into
towns vhere they first became domestic servants and
later established snall businesses such as barber and
beauty shops, groceries, coffee houses, refroshment
stands, bakcries, flomer or candy stores end toy
shops. Gradually they almost monopolized these lines
in most towns and finally they began operating large
stores in the capital and most of the electrical
repair and machine shops.
After the end of the firet world War the Japan-
ese Government began to airect and control the emigre-
tion of its subjects. This was followed by system-
atic utilization of Nipponese settlers in. Peru in
the interest of the economy and the foreign aspirations
of Japan.
B-0279-13-BU-00

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.99)
-41
The estimates of the number of Japanese in Peru
vary widely, from the official figure of 22,600 to
as many ns 30,000. Huaral,  valley on the coast
is completely inhabited by Japanese. It is difficult
to know the exact figure because formerly the Japanese,
unlike other foreigners, were not required to register..
In order to support the contention that the
Japanese in Peru are loya1 to the laws of that country,
the Japanese Legation in Lima once announced that
18,000 children of Japanese origin attend the national
schools. If this figure is correct the Japanese pop-
ulation of Peru should be calculated at as much as
80,000.
Japanese Penetration
In that country the Japanese form the largest
foreign element, by ar exceeding the Italians,
Germans, or the North Americans. Characteristic of
the efficiency of the Japanese government in selec-
ting those whom it "permits" to emigrate to Peru is
the fact that it was ascertained that almost all
immigrants during the last decade were not only
literate but. had obviously a higher education, and
seemingly, a special gift for languages, because many
of them knew how to speak, read and write Spanish
fluently in a surprisingly short time after their
arrival.
Japanese had no difficulties in acquiring Peruvian
B-0279-P44-BU-00

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.97)
citizonship. This may have contributed to the t
that while most Indians have no vote, due to i
requirements, the mayors in two villages, Maldonado
in the epartment of uadre de Dios, in Viru in the
Department of Trujillo, and in the town of Ayacucho.
the capital of the Department of the same name, were
Japanese: *)
Japanese nationals in Peru are organized in mum-
erous societies scattered throughout the land. In
the clubroons there are niches holding the picture
of the Emperor so that his faithful subjects may ful-
fill the command of bowing before hin and keeping alive
the memory of the distant fatherland. But the soo-
ieties a lso have more practical purposes. One is to
advise the newcomer regarding the work he wishes to
take up and to grant him a. sum of money, ranging from
a thousand to ten thousand soles for his ney start in
life....*) Of spe cial significance, is the penet-
ration of the Japanese immigrant into agriculture,
where, with capital borrowed or supplied by his organ-
ization, he easily outbide the Peruvian farmer. In
the Chamchamago Valley the Japanese Paru Takushoku
) Hugo Fercandez Artudio: The Nazi Underground
in South Ape rioa. New York, 1942, p. 223.
**) diro Alrgria. and Alfredo Saco: Japanese
in the Amerioas, in Free World, New York, Febm
and March. 1942.

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.99)
43
Compeny owns l000 hectares, where they cultivate
corn and cotton.
Japanese own 18,000 acres of the 30,000 cultiv
able acres in Chancay province on the border of Brazil,
Peru and Bolivia. They oyn all the water front and
land adjacent to Chimbote. Though undeveloped, Chimbote
is the first good salt-water harbor on the/Pacific
south of the Canal Zone. Japanese goods and Japanese
immigrants are easily smuggled in there.
"In agriculture the Japanese at first contented
themselves with veg otable gardening but later they
took over the cultivation of cotton, one of the
principal branches of Peruvian agriculture and one
of the country's leading exports. Of the 12,000
hectares of the val ley of Huaral, about 100 kilometers
from Lima, 80% are or were in the hande of the Japan-
ese. The firm of N. Okada and Company alone, one
of Peru's largest cotton growers, owns 4,200 hectares.
Around Lima there is a numerous colony of Jap anese
vegetable and cotton growers. To buy cotton around
the capital of Penu, one has to empl oy aJapanese
middleman, because of the preference given by Japanese
growers to ∞mmiesion men of their dn race." *)
As far back as 1934 Salinas Cossio, a prominent
Poruvian journ-list nd writer pointed to the growing
danger of Japanese land grabbing. He ehowed that
) Alegria, Loc. cit.

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.98)
15 percent of the coastal cotton orop
by Japanese, and later, in a series of artin
entitled La Infiltración Japonesa, published in
he raised this estimate to as much as twonty-r
percent. He explai ned the higher percentage of Japa
ese production by the fact that they. have choben the
most fertile and least risky valleys. In its issues
of September 18, and 24, 1932, La Prensa of Lima sid
that the Japanese in that country begin to represent
a real political peril and hinted at the possibility
of the Japanese in Peru serving as a pretext for a
future armed intervention of Japan for the protection
of their "oppressed" nationals, as it did in Manchuria,
The establishment of modern department stores
orfered tremendous difficulties due to the underi
bidding competition of the almost exclusively Japone
orned "bazaara", which owe their success to sharo
practices such as frequent "inventory" and "liquid-
ation" sales, featuring specially reduced articles
as bait and fraudulent advertising. These firms usually
refuse to disclose figures on their capital turnover
and profits, as well as the figures of their sales, to
avoid Peruvian taxes as well as too onerous fo c:a
contributions imposed by Japanese societies and organ-
izations in the. colony. *)
) The Japanese in Peru: By Antonello Gerbi, Wew York
1943, p. 94, 97.

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.99)
45
Many bf the dance halls and disereet little
hotels, renting roome by the hour, and probably
three quarters of the more thar 200 hairdressers
and barbers, and smal! coffee and tea shope in Lima
are owned by Japanese. Most of them utilize their
well attended shops as meeting places, information
exchanges and centers of influence. There, as any-
where else, the barbers have the opportunity to
engage in conversation with their customers from
all classes of the Peruvian people.
By their ruinous competion, made possible by
their lower standards of living, and due to the
support from their government, Jap anese merchants
have bankrupted innumerable small Peruvian business-
men and destroyed their livelihood . The resentment
created by this situation contributed to the anti-
Japanese demonstrations which broke out in May 1940,
in-Lima and Callao. During these riots, Japanese
businesses were attacked, which resulted in a loss
of about one million aollars. The Japanese govern-
meni protested to Peru in threatening terms, objecting
also to the laws passed then against further Japanese
immigration. It exacted a heavy indemnity, which
the Peruvian government paid. At that time Japan
was still at peace with every country of the Jestern.
hemisphere.
3-0279-28

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.96)
npan'Et CoL
 Long before Japan unleashed its ar
many significant incidents were reported in te
revealing the existence of Japanese secret or
tions and activities in Peru. Some rumors sounded
fantastic but in view of the subsequent discoverie
of Japanese secret military preparat ion and penetiat
in the Philippines, in Burma, in the Malayas, these
reports seem to have been well founded and acguire
added significance.
Thus it wes reported that the Japanese had secret
air bases in several spots on tho bnely and deserted
coast, and that they acquired lands close to the oil
wells of Talara, Lobitos and Zorritos; in the' Depart-
ment of Tumbes and Piura on the border of Equador,to
servo them as bases to s cize these: oil wells in the
case of a conflict with the United States.
Significant are also reports of such single in-
cidents as that during the attack on the Japanese
shops in May 1940, in one of the rooms of a: Japanese
school in Lima, rifles were found hidden among the
bolts of cloth, as well as thousands of brase badges
with swastikas. The face bearing the swassike sould
be slipped uown, to reveal a Japanese idol.  Jurther
examination discorared a number and coda word in
Japanese.
"Japanese penetration does not belk at eervilo

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.99)
47
duties. Until recently it was posaible to fimm
Japanese performing the most menial taaks in
connected with the Peruvian Army and Mavy. There
was a Japanese laundryman at the Peruvian Maval Sohoo
who sometimes helped the.students solve their problems
in higher mathematics.
"The cadets, aparently unperturbed by the math-
ematical skill of their laundryman, nicknamed him
the 'admiral'. In 1915 the provincial authorities
of Trujille captured a Japanese mapping the region
with a theodolite. Police investigation revealed that
he was an engineer who had concealed his identity
by selling candy from a. pushcart on the street of
Trujillo". *)
By its geographical position Peru is the most
strategic place in South America for penetration from
the West. Its northern coast, where large numbers
of Japanese have gone to live in the past ten years,
is South Americas western bulge. comparable to Brazil'
Natal region.. Japanese control there could paralyze
Peru ana Chile to the South. From deep water harbors
along the coast from Peruvian airfields, Ecuador and
Colombie can be attacked and the Panama Canal etruck
at with ease from Talara, almost at the"tip of Peru's
bulge. Eighty percent of Peru's.40,000 barrol--day
Alegria, loc. cit. March 1942.

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.98)
148
of oil products is centercd on e cliff not far north
of Talara. There stands the only gasoline refinery
on the South American west coast. Peru produces also
many other war materials. It is the greatest exporter
of vanadium. It is the sccond American source of
copper and zinc, and in 1933 Japanese imports of
copper leaped from one percent to thirty percent,)
In view of these facts and incidents qioted above
can the alarming statement of Victor Raul Haya de la
Torre, the leader of the Peruvian APRA party be lightly
dismissed as an exaggeration when he said:
"The Japanese have a perfect organization in our
country, integrated by 20,000 officers of the Japanese
Imperial Army. They are armed and strategically
situated to control the country by availing themselves
of a huge army of natives which might easily reach
a total of 80,000." **)
After Peru's breaking of relations with Japan most,
if not all of the land concessions given to Japanese
individuals or companies have been cancelled, which
partly removed the danger from these sources. But
these decrees did not include these Japanese who, par-
ticularly in the year before the Pearl Harbor,
rushed in great number to be naturalized and become
Peruvian citizens.
*) Washington Post: May 30, 1942. In: Peru Curbs
Japanese, By Virgile Prewett.
**) Quoted in Hugo Fernandez Artucio: The Nazi
Underground in South America, p. 230.
B-0279-P51+BU-COB-WP

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.98)
49
The Japanese in Brazil
Brazil harbors the largest Japanese colony in
this hemisphere: while the more or less official
Brazilian census figures give their number as 186,000.
it is generally estinated that there are no less than
300,000 or 350,000, and, including the Brazilian born
Japanese of the second ana third gener tion their
number may be not less than half a million. *). Almost
all of the second generation retains their Japanese
nationality. Of the 300,O00 foreign born Japanese -
most of them men - about 40 percent are of military
age and thus would have been able to form an army
of 100,000. After the raids and arrests following
the severing of diplomatic relations with Japan. the
Brazilian authorities established that they were organ-
ized along semi-military lines.
The number of Japanese residents in São Paulo
is variously estimated at 150,000 to 250,000, and
they consider the land they occupy or occupied as the
personal property of the Mikado. •) There are about
20,000 Japanese in Matto Grosso, 25,000 in the state
of Amazonas, 20,000 or 25,000 in Ceara, and, beyond
the Brazilian frontier, 2C,O00 in Bolivia. During
the debates in the Brazilian Senate about Japanese
*) Christian Scienoe Monitor, Maron B5. 1942.
**) Time,: New York, Maroh 26.

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.97)
50
concessions in the amazonas, it appeared
the state 1,O30,000 hectares, a territory
eize to that of the Republic of Haiti, was owned
controlled by the Japanese Hachiro Fukuhara Company.
The settlements of Japanese in Peru and Brazil are
in the same latitude, forming a continuous'belt
across South America f rom the Atlantic to the Pacific
They are settled along the coast south of Santo and
along the strategic rivers and railroads in the state
of Parana, Matto Groeso, Para and Ceara. From Seo
Paulo and Parana a line of similar, strategically
loc ted colonies extends through Paraguay and Bolivia
into Peru.
Another line of ∞lonies extends up the Amason
Val ley through the states of Para and Amazonas into
Peru, Ecuador and Colombia.
Forming "Minorities"
In these regions many former Japanese army offioor
became big landorners enploying hordes of Japanese
servants and farn laborers who were also soldiers in
ikaco's arny. This is a perfect analogy to simila
events in Germany before the ascent of Hitler, when
many large nonarchist landowners employed on their
properties "laborers" in mumbers far beyond the
actual need of their lande. These laborers were all
mona
tet or pro-nazi ex-soldfere and ortLoere
"The Lay". In the state of São Paulo lo

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.97)
-51-
the Japanese own approximately 1,250,000 acres, (about
500,000 hectares).
In many places they form such compact colonies;
living apart from the natives in communities of 300
to 6000, that they could almost claim to be a "national
minority" in Brazil. The government, naturally,
tried to prevent this, in recognition of the fact that
the existence of such "national ninorities" in various.
European countries gave the Axis powers the welcome
pretext for attacks and invasions, in order to "protect
their conpatriots. Thus a Brazilian law provides
that not more than 25 percent of the inhabitants of
a given locality may be of on foreign nationality.
Nevertheless, in April, 1941, an investigation of
the Brazilian Council of Colonization, a government
agency, reported, among others, that 90 percent of
the inhabitants of Bastos, in the State of São Paul o,
were Japanese.
The people of Bastos, who usually went only to
the Japanese consulate to be narried by the rites of .
their homeland, read only Japanese, and the only
Portugiese books in the to"n were two dictionaries *)
In Registro, a city of 9000 inhabitants more than
half are Jananese and of the 45 businesses in town
only three were Brazilian. In such communities
criminals were tried by their own Courts in dieregard
) Hemisphere, New York, April 4, 1941.
Br0279AP54-B0-008-1

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.98)
-52-
of the Brazilian laws, and native Bražilians felt
l ke strang rs in such towns. In places they inhabit,
the Japanese have introduced many of their on trees.
and plants, such as the feathery bamboo and water
lilies, so that these, together vith their rustic
ten gardens, give some parts of the. Brazilian land-
cape an alnost Japanese appearance.
Throu hout South America the Japanese colonies
are strictly regimented.
The suprepe authority em-
enates from the Japanese ambassador. His immediate
lieutenants are the consuls closest to the Japanese
colonies. They transmit his instructions to the
aaministronors of the colonies. Every Japanese far mer
raises only rhat he is tolu to raise, ane the colony
auainistrator sells it for hi.
Their atteapt at creating a "national minority"
in Brazil has been considerably stregthened by their
clannishness nd their persistant efforts to educate
their children in the Japanese tradition, with alle g-
iance to the Shinto religion, and vorship of the
Japanese emperor as their only ruler and god.
Their Schools and Propaganda.
As early as Morch, 1936, Major Correa Lima, in
a lecture at Pio de vaneiro, produced evidence that
Japanese children in Prazil vere heing educated in
accordance "ith a plan directed by the Japanese govern-
ment fron books printed in Japanese, so that they
were being taught to think as Japanese rather than
asazilians.

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.97)
-53 -
In spite of the prohibition of special Japanese
schools and the law compelling 1 schools to conduct
their classes in Portuguese, the Japanese establis hed
literally hunareds of clandestine schools all over
the country. In 1941 the police discovered and closed
325 such secret schools in the state of São Paulo
alone. The Federal Hinistry of Education got posit ive
information, that at the "Day of the Japanese Teach ers
Abroad" celebrated in Tokyo in 1940, it mas proudly
reported that Brazil occupies first place in their
scheme, rith 20,00) puni1s, anu 554 teachers, while
in Japan-anmexed anchuria there were only 93, and
in occupiee hina only 43 Japanese schools. *)
Thus
the Brazilian covernnent is certainly justified in
considering the native born Japanese in general just
as unreliable or dangerous as the foreign born
Japanese.
The Japanese were, however, not satisfied with
"eaucating" the young and ola mong their own natio nale
in Brazil, but also made strenuous efforts to sow
among the prazilians the inpression - to which their
extreme foruality and apparently humble politeness
greatly contributed, - that Japan is all art and be auty
sweetnees and char, anc good will for everybody.
Carlos Lacerda: En Busco do Imperio do Sol Naci ente
in Estauo de Linas, December 17, 1941. Belo Horizonte.

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.98)
uost at the Japanese propes
the "Brasilian Institute of Japanese Caitur
Rio de Janeiro, founded in 1936. The founder and
organizational head of the Institute was Alexand
Konder, Brazilian of German parentage, who worked
closely with the then ambassador Itaro Ish1, Mr.
Konder was recently arrested as an Axis spy.
An interminable flood of Japanese lecturers,
students, stars, tourists, merchants, and conmissions
of "study" or investigation moved among the influenti
circles of the country among hom they eetablished
valuable contacts. But behind all this Japanese
aiplomacy there was espionage and the technique of
the Fifth Column long before the vermans and Italians
began to use it.
One of their propaganda uethods is to state a
to point out that, as United States has all the
material she neeas, outsiae of ubber, tin, and coffe
the Latin American countries will be unable to sell
anything, either to the United States, or to Europe
on eccount of the war, and that therefore their best
bet is to establish commercial relations with Japan.
Their Trojan Horee Wrecked in Tame.
For years the Brazilian government was aware
of disquieting reports and runors about the sugpioid
 activigise and plane of the Janenese in Brazil.

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.97)
due to the restraints imposed by diplomatic relat
with a powerful country, the goverament could not
do much, particularly as all these activities were
under the protection of the Japanese embassy and
consulates. But after the attack on Pearl Harbor
the government abanaoned its reserve and swooped down
on the Japanese vho, for a long time, had been under
suspicion . Among the discoveries made, a few quo
tations from the newspaper reports are characteristic:
"One raid unearthed an arsenal of
450,000 cartridges and automatic rifles
and machine guns. Another raid in ão Paulo
confiscated 42 high-powered speed-boats
(Time, New York, Apri1 13, 1942.)
"Police arrested Kentaro Takaoca, born
in Brazil of Japanese parents, who is
a member of the brazilian Reserve Officer's
Corps. A short-wave radio transmitter
was found in his possession.
"In São Paulo, police seized Musci
Tonogawa, reportcdly a general of the Japan-
ese army. He vas disguised as a farm
laborer. Police said that before coming
to Brazil he had participated in the Japan-
ese invasion of China. War trophies and
rifle ammunition were found in his posses
sion." (New York Times, U. P. dispatch.
Apri1 1, 1942.)
"A report that Japanese along the SMo
Paulo coast have been supplying fuel to
German submarines was the outetanding sen-
aation of a day in which police rounded up
Axis nationale in raide in towne through out
that tate.
"Japanese in the São Baulo doastal
region have operated twenty.
motor launchos. these, wuse
by government order yesterday. On 
of the Japanose pought in th
have been found detälled
11no,

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.98)
muitable for subpertnee
south-west of bantos.
Aleo reported the arrest of a Japanesa
general dieguised ng a farmer,  
Army Officer and a Brazilian reserve oifs
of Japanese parentage.
"In São Paulo the Japanese are taring
the limelight from the Germans in revel-
ations of espionage. The Japanese tech-
nique differs from that of the Germane.
When cought they, do not try to deny their
guilt but brazenly pose for photographers
With their Japanese uniforms, decorations
and other military trophies."  (New York
Times, April 1, 1942 in: Brazil Finds
U-Boat Fuel Base: Japanese General Seized
as a Spy, by Frank M. Garcia).
"Two Japanese naval officers posing
as griculturists vere arrested at the port
city of Para and large caches of Japanese
arms were uncovered today in the interior
of the State of São Paulo..
hotbed af
fifth columnists, by Brazilian authoritiee.
"The Japanese identified as Iossio
Yamata and hrota Ushi, mere found in posses-
sion of their officer's uniforms, photo-
graphs of shipe and strategic Brazilian
developments, maps and epy reports. Arrest-
ing officert said that the men had long
been carrying on espionage around Para,
strategic coastal city at the nouth of
the Amnzon.
"The hidden arms and a large guanti ty
of propaganda were seized in Bao Paulo
just a week after disclusure of Japansse
Japanese farm, desoriped by mithoritias
in the. Campinas region.

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.96)
"The launoh
induetry of
fiohing veasa
towed to sea by
"The police have redently found ad
arrested in the oão Paulo fishing-colony
several Japenese naval officers. Aocordi
to reports given the police these rapanese
naval agents had plane for using 
launches for espionage and raiding purposes
along the coast.
"Another charge was that the Janansse
had used them to map the entire coast.
"At Curitiba, capital of the state of
Parana, south of São Paulo, a Japanese
named Noriatsu Chopuke, said to be an
aviator, has been arrested. They reported
that he had maps showing flying fields in
São Paulo and Parana States." (New York
Times, March 29, 1942).
"The authorities discovered that one
Japanese dentist in Brazil was a General
Among the tomatoe growers was discovered
a one time Japanese Finance Minister. As
reported by the Brazilian Government Press
and Propaganda Dcuertment, 'There were
secretly trained Jupanese troups exeroisins
with anti-tank guns and attillery import
in the guise of agricultural machineryl
(Time, New York, May 1942).
A well known journalist, John W. Waite, who has
lived in South America for twenty-five yeare, publishe
in the Saturday Evening Post, of June 27, 1942, an
illuminating article entitled: The Japamse in Brabil.
several pagsages of vhich aeserve to quoted:
"Brazilian authorities firet bedme eus-
picious of the C nanea cokony when they
that engineert; doctore.

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.99)
58-
army and navy fficors were entering the country
as third-class immigrants, so that the state of
So Paulo lad to pay their steerage passege and
then pay the colonization company a bonus for
bringing them into the country. Poor ragged
farmers had surveying equipment and other ex-
pensive engineering and navigating instruments
among their farm tools.
And whereas the usual
Japanese immigrants sent to Brazil to work on
the coffee plantations almost invariably were
illiterate laborers from the outlying islands
of the Japanese archipelago, many of those
introduced into the São Paulo colony could not
hide. the fact that they were highly educated
along scientific lines and in the languages.
"None of the South American- countries
sought these Japanese settlers. In each case
the initiative cane from colonizing companies
or agents subsidized by the Japanese government.
Invariably the argument was that the Japanese
would strengthen the country's economy.
The
colonizers took great care to keep this promise
and thereby induce the country to permit the
entry of more Japanese.
"If any doubt remained as to the political
motives behind the Japanese government's keen
interest in forcing these colonies onto the
B-0279-261-20-008-V1

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.99)
59
the South american countries, it was dispelled
in April by Tokyo itself. The spokesman was
Montanoa Ona, a former administrator of one
of the colonies in Brazil who, significantly
enough, had been called home to take a position
in the Eaperor's government. In a belligerent
interview in the newspaper Asahi, he warned
Brazil that any restriction of Japanese "rights".
in the Amazon Valley would be considered a .
hostile act against the Imperial government..
The Amazon zone, he said, "morally" belongs
to Japan, because the Japanese colonists have
spent ten years reclaiming it from the jungles.
After charging Brazil with having done nothing
to develop the resources of the Amazon, he
onunciated the interesting theory that natural
resources, whereyer
found, belong to those
who develop them.
"The former commandant of the São Paulp
army zone recently reported to the government
at Rio de Janeiro that the Japanese were in
complete control of the coast and.excellently
organized for a surprise attack on Brzilian
barracks and other strategic points. They were
reported to be well supplied with antitank
and anti-aircraft guns, as vell as other
artillery and machine guns, al l reported to
have béen imported as farm machinery consigned
B-0279-162-30-008-W2

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.97)
一60-
to the agricultural colonies. The farmers
were reported to have prepared landing fields
and the fishermen to have prepared submarine
bases.
"After breaking off diploxatio relations
with Japan and the other Axis povers, while
the conference of Aerican Foreign linisters
was in session in Rio de Janciro in Januay, 1942,
the authorities moved rapidly to get control
of the situntion before any plots could be
put into motion. A major of the Federal Army
was appointed chief of police for the state
of são Paulo end began rounding up fifth-column
ringleaders.
"The investigation disclosed that wherever
there is an airfield, an important railroad
junction, a high-tension electric-transnission
line, a vital source of drinking water, a mun-
tions plant, or a factory capable of engaging
in war work, there was a ne'r-by Japanese furm
or group of farms peopled by loyal subjects of
the Emperor, who couid destroy these vital
positions on short notice."
The Brazilian government could net fail to rem-
ember the activities of the Japamese coloniste in
the Philippines, anc in the Lutch East Indies, part-
icularly when considering the geographical distribution
B-0279-P63-B0-008-WP

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.98)
一61-
of the Japanese settlements along the economically
and strategically most important locations. About
200,000 well organized Japanese, loyal only to their
Emperor, used to ccordinate work by their controlled
cooperatives from Tokyo, resisting any attempt to
assimil: te them, trained in Japan for work in Brazil
for the glory and power of Japan, meet on the coast
the German colonics in the South. The immense
Japanese concussions in the unexplored Amazon region
were iacally situateu for secret air fields and as
springboards for aggression by air tovard the Panama
Canal in the North, to Puru in the West and the
bulge in the East to hold th ground for an expected
attack by their allius from Dakar.
But the Brazilian government saw the danger and
know how to prot ct its own nation and incidentally
the rest of this hemisphere by acting quickly and
energetically. All Japanese concessions on the
Amazon totaling more than 6,000,000 acres (2,500,000
hectares) have been cancelled and soveral hundred
Japanese have been arrusted, including two colonc!s,
two generals, and several army captains, an admiral
and several naval conmanders, nost of them disguised
as farmers.
The prisoners included an army officer who far
five years has posed as a voman cook, a master spy
disguisea as a Buadhist priest and a vide variety
of sabotage agunts and other plotturs.
B-0279-P64-BU-C08-WP

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.97)
62-
III.
MIKADO WORSHIP TO BE THE RELIGION OF THE WORLD
While the Nazis and their predecessors, the Pan-
Gernanists, juslified their anbition for world conguest
by their self-asserted racial suneriority, they at
least do not pretend to impose their faith or any
relrgion on the peoples they conouer and subjugate.
They frankly oass ti eir "right" on their cannon and
stukas. Thus  ith the some logic their arguments
can be, and are b, defeated by better cannon and
better bouber.
Not so *ith the Japanese. They declare that their
design for world conquest is for ethical and spirit-
ual reasons, that it is the "divine" mission of
Japan to rule the world and to impose on this planet
the one true religion, which is the worship of their
emperor as the supreme god destined to rule the un-
iverse.
Hajor-General Tada, commander of the Japanese
garrison of North China issued in 1935 for the press
representatives in Tienstsin,a pamphlet entitled:
"The Basic Conception of China in which he wrote:
.... the international situation.
is also the beginning of a spiritual war
for
rectifying the material civiliza-
tion of the West by the moral civilazati on
of the East. Thoee two great missions
from Hcaven are the natural obligatione
which our Japanese empire muet bear".
) Cuotea in Freda Utley: Jepan'a Tes

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.98)
-63 -
The Japanese claim their right of dominance over
the rest of humanity by reason of their assertion
that they were the first on the earth. According
to Dr. Choymatsu Ishikawa, a Professor of Zoology
at the Tokyo University, Japan was the scene of man-
kind's first appearance on this earth somewhere in
the southern part of the Japanese isIand of kyushu
From there all mankind stemied and spread all over
the carth. The pr sent Japanesc Emperor, as all
his predecrssors, is a direct descendent of the
first Emperor, the legendary Jimnu, whe was only
a fow genorations removed from the Sun-Goddess. the
Hother of Jopan.
As a desc rdent of the Sun-Goddess, the Japanese
Emperor, the Ruler of the Heavens, has been intrusted
with the rule of the Earth. He is the highest
ranking god on earth and all men ove him obediance.
And the Japanese themselves, being also descondents
of the gods, specially those gous who attended
the Sun Goddess' grandson on his aescent from Heaven,
are also gous,, ana therefore superior to all men
on earth. The divinity of their Emperor being an
undisputable dogma, the Japanese claim that Japan,
by right of its unique qualities must become the
dominant power in the vorld, with the Imperiaf family
as the new Saviour. And as Japan's emperors are by

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.97)
L-64-
divine right lords of the whole world, resistance
gainst their power is criminal rebellion.
These conceptions of the world, past, present
and future are among the tenets of the official
Shinto religion of Japan, to which all other rel-
igious denominations must submit, as long ae, or
whenever they are tolerated.
In the seventeenth century, when Chrietianity
began to win adherents in Japan, the government
issued an edict vorded:
"So long as the sun warns the earth,
let no Christian be so bold as to come
to Japin; and let all know that if the
King of Spain, or the Christian's God,
or the Great God of ll violate this
command, he shall pay for it with his
hed."
When in the nineteenth century, Japan was opened
to foreign intercourse, the profession of Christinity
was permitted. Its excercise is, however, now toler-
ated only on condition that a elight modification
be adooted. This modification is the incorporation
of a fourth person in the Holy Trinity. This fourth
person is the Japanese Emperor, tho is placed above
the three othere of the Trinity. *)
*) See D. C. Holton: odern Japan and Shinto Nati onal
ism: A Study of Present day trends in Japanese Rel-
igion:  Chicago, 1942. Mr. Holton was representative
of the Anerican Baptiet Foreign Kission and Profere or
of History of Religion in Japanese colleges for thirt
yers.

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.98)
一65
Dr. Albertus Pieters, an American Missionary.
and scholar cuoted the following decleration of the
spokesman of one of the shinto sects:
"Japan is the parent nation of the
world. He ho is hostile to this nation
oppoees the will of God....The Imperial
family of'Japan is the parent not only
of the Japanese race, but of all the
nations on earth. It is above all raoial
considerations. All human disputes there-
fore must be settled in accordance with
its immaculate justice. The League of
Nations con only attain its object by
placing the Imperial family of Jaan at
its head, for, if it is to succeed, the
League must have a strong punitive force
of a super-racial and super-national
character and this can only be found in
the Impe rial family of Japan". *)
The shinto Religion, originally mainly vorship
of the Imperial ancestors before Shinto Shrines, is
closely allieu with the principle of Hakko Ichiu.
literally "eight corners unaer one roof". This
principle is ascribed to the proclamation of the
mythica1 Emperor Jimmu, "ho announced: "Therefore
the Capital may be extended so as to embrace all the
six cardinal points, and the eight corners may be
covered so as to form a. roof". In spite of this
oriental imagery the symbolism is obvious enough
to understand that the "eight corners" mean the
world, and the one "roof", which was to be extended
to cover the whole world, signifies the Japanese
) Hugh Byas: Government by Assaesination, New York
1943, p. 310.

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.98)
-66
Imperial rule, or to be more specific, the rule of
the Japanese feudal militarists using the Emperor
as a. puppet and a symbol.
Accordingly the Japanese war pr opaganda proclaimed
that Japan is engaged in a holy war to unify all
races and nations under the paternal rule of the
Japanese Emperor, in conformity with Shinto's holy
principle of Hakko Ichiu, which allots to each nation
its "proper place". "The holy war launchedby the
Emperor" - so they proclain - "will sooner or later
awaken all nations to the cosmic truth that their
respective national lives issued forth from the one
absolute life-center embodied by the Japanese Emperor,
and that peace and harmony cannot be realized other-
wise than by :reorganizing them into one all-embracing
family system under the guidance of the Mikado."
This convenient amalgamation of mystic religious
doctrines with very concrete and brutal imperialist
ambitions in the interest of Japan, has recently
again been reiterated by the present Premier Hrdeki
Tojo, who declared that Hakko Ichiu is the process
of "making the boundless virtues of the Emperor
prevail throughout the world", and since the Japan-
ese "know" that their Emperor is the only divine
ruler on earth, it stands to reason - to their
reason - that the Mikado should rightfully rule
the worla.

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.99)
-67-
Wherever the Japanese establish their rule
they begin by forcing the followers of all. religims,
Christians included, to perform obeisance before
Shinto Shrines. All Japanese and Korean Christians
must have shinto Goa-shelves in their homes and
must bov to the image of the mperor, ane revere
him as the destined ruler of the world. They must
participate in the shinto ceremonies, as obligatory
"acts of patriotism".
When, at one occasion, a
Korean Christian clergyman, said in the course
of a sermon that "God is the only creator of the
world", the police interpreted this as sedition, and
kept him in jail for four years.
In 1907 ur. Hiroyuki Kato, Professor of the
Imperial University of Tokyo wrote:
"sovereignty in Japan is vested in
a single Race-Father, a form of govern-
ment vithout peer among all the nations
of the worla. It is therefore not to
be tolerated that a sovereign should be
accepted who receives reverence above
and beyond the Emperor and the Imperial
Ancestors. Cur national structure makes
it impossible to permit the acceptance
of a 'One True God' above the Emperor.
For this reason it is entirely clear
that the teachings of Christianity and
our national structure can never stand
together.
The best known interpreter of modern Shinto is
Dr. Genchi Kato, formerly professor of Shinto at
the Imperial Univerisity of Tokyo and now on the
staff of the Shinto College of Tokyo. In his book
"Our National Structure and Shinto" he writes:
B-0279-P70-B0-000-HP

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.97)
-68 -
"Shinto has culminated in Mikadoism
or the worship of the Mikado or Japanese
Emperor as a divinity, during his life-
time as well as after hie death.
Herein lies...the essence of life of Shinto,
inseparably connected with the national
ideal of the Japanese people....All this
is....the actual manifestation of the
rel igious consciousness of the Japanese
peopIe.
In all history and in all other lands, religions
have been founded or reformed by philosophers,
teachers, or theologians. That the present form
and tenets of the Shinto and Hakko Ichiu religion
have been concocted by and for the Japanese war
lords, appears from a little sentence, used in the
decrees imposing Shinto worship in all the conquered
regions of China, Korca, Formosa, Manchuria. It is
enjoined that all inhahitonts must bow in worship
before Shinto shrincs. and all Shinto worshippers
must recognize the Japanese army as "the chief med-
iating agency of the Divine Imperial will". And
that no Japanese subject may have another will or
thought than the Emperor - ( speaking through the
edicts of the war lords) was clearly expressed
by Dr. Shinkichi Uesugi, former professor of Law
at the Imp rial Univereity of Tokyo. In his book
"Exalting tn Essenco of National Structure" (1919),
he says:
"Subjects have no mind apart from
the will of the Emperor. If they act
according to the mind of the Emperor,
they can realize their true nature and
attain their moral ideal".
B-O27S

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.97)
-69 -
The Nazis at least do not pretend or proclaim
that the Poles and Greeks and Norwegians love them,
but the Japanese boldly announce that the peoples
subjugated by them are grateful for the favor of
having been taken into their fold. In his book
published in Tokyo in 1934 entitled: "The Teachings
of issho Ankoku - On a Rightcous and Peaceful Country -
and the Japanesc Spirit", Professor Ryuzan Shimiro
of the Nichiren University of Tokyo tells us:
"Just as our brother Hanchurians have
cone to follow us with aff ction, so also
must ve lead all nations of the world into
righteousness and cstablish heaven on
earth....This is th true ideal of Nippon -
ism.
The pitilessly exploited and enslaved Koreans
and Manchurians and Chin s in the occupied regions,
and the massacred people of Nanking and Chunking
got a foretaste of this "heaven on earth" in the
Japanese "New Order" - described in the following
pagts.
B-0279-P72-BU-008-WP

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.98)
-70
IV
JAPAN'S BLUEPRINT OF ITS "NEW ORDER"
The "heaven on earth" vhich the Japanese promise
the rest of the vorld after uniting it "under one
roof" is. not difficult to visualize. We have only
to look at Japan itself and see how the Japanese
people live and how they are governed, what is
their standard of living and their government, which
is so willing to bestom its protection on the rest
of the world. Most European and American observers
who lived in Japan any length of time, and looked
below the surface of the exaggerated but meaning
less politeness of the upper classes, but came
in contact with the masses of the people, know
that the real Japan is far from being the land
of eternal cherry blossoms, gayety and. sweetness
as represented in prints and operettas. It is
a country of eternally half starved peasants, of
hungry children working long hours, of workers
without rights to combine in trade unions or to
form political parties to improve their medieval
standard of living; of women dragging coal in the
mines; of sweated comestic industries with women
and children working fourteen or fifteen hours a

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.99)
-71
day for four or six cents; of crowded prisons
where medieval tortures are used to extract
"confessions".
The Workers:_
In 1938 the "Standard of Living Report" of
the Internat ional Labor Office of the League of
Nations, reported that twenty five percent of
Japanese families, and thirty seven percent of
Japanese children were not earning enough to main-
tain health and efficiency. Japanese law permits
children to work beginning at the age of twelve.
In 1935 a survey of the larger factories of the
nation showed that over sixteen percent of the
workers were unaer sixteen. On top of this a
leading Japanese econonist, Seichi Kojima, estim-
ated in January 1941, that the standard of living
had declined forty percent since the outbreak of the
Sino-Japanese war in July 1937. *)
This did not deter a Japanese general from
admonishing his people that in view of the war:
"The lomering of the people's
living standards and increased savings
are of vital importan ce. Taking the
people of Japan as a whole, each one
must live on one-third of his monthly
income. allocating the remaining two-
*) Anthony Jenkinson : Know Your Enemy, Japan
New York, 1942, Institute of Pacific Relhtions.
B-0279-P74-B0

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.97)
-72 -
2
thirds for taxes, savings and other
irportant fields."
The Peasants:
An investigation carried out in 1937 by the
Japanese Linistry of Agriculture showed that most
of Japan's farm families border on destitution.
In that year three-quarters of the 5,575,000 fam
households owned less than one hectare each. (The
average size of a farm in the United States is
sixty three hectarcs.) Seventy percent of the
farmers rented all or part of th ir l ne from tho
landowners, who exacted rent calculated at seven
times that paid in England. Rice rents were usually
paid in kind; on an average the farmer hands over
to the landlord more than half of his crop. *)
The lot of the peasant-owners is little better.
For the most part they own tiny farms in the up-
lands, where the soil is less fertile. In 1937,
fifty percent of Japanese landowners owned only
nine percent of the land, while eight percent
owned fifty percent. **)
To relieve their misery farmers are often forced
to sell their daughters into slavery in textile
mills or brothels for a period of many years.
The textile mills employ 700,000 such girls who
*) Jenkinson. op. cit.
**) ibiu.
B-0279-P75-

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.98)
-73
are kept virtual prisoners on the premises. If
those sola to brothels attempt to run away, the
police will bring then back. For the government
is a partner in this honorable busincss. It
collects seven percent of the girl's carnings
and ten percent of the brothel keeper's profits.
The Upper Crust:
While the great mass of the people live in
the most abject poverty, inconceivable by any
inhabitant in the Am ricas, the wealth of Japan
is concentrat ad in the hands of a few family trusts,
richer probably than the richest in the rest of
the world. Those families, forming Japan's fin-
ancial oligarchy, ar the Houses of Mitsui,
Mitsubishi, Sumitomo, and Yasuda. Between them
they own the greater part of Japanose industry,
tradc, banking and shipping. By 1937 they controlled
more than one third of the total deposits in private
banks, seventy percent of the deposits in all
trust companies and onc-third of the total forcign
trade. By controlling the banks, they controlled
the smaller credit institutions throughout the
country.
The Emperor of Japan holds a large proportion
of the nation's wealth. In 1927 he owned more
than 1, 520, 000 hectares of land, and with the
B-0279-P76-8U-008-WP

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.98)
-74-
buildings and tenements on them, this property
was valued at 637;234, 000 yen. In addition he
had 300,000,000 yen deposited or invested in the
Bank of Japan, the South Manchurian Railway, the
Yokohoma Specic Bank, Nippon Yusen Kaisha (Mitsubishi's
shipping linc), and the Imperial Hotel in Tokyo. *)
The Women:
The "heaven on ear th" which the Japanese promise
to establish in the rest of the world as soon as
it recognizes Japan's "divinc mission" - will be
particularly heavenly for the women. It cannot
be expected that their status should be botter than
the status of the Japanese women in the country
of Mme. Butterfly.
Social custons as well as the laws kccp Japan's
woman in subjection and giv her a status very
slightly removed from slavery. The Japanese woman
has no legal pcrsonality, no social or political
rights; sho can b sold to a factory or a brothel
by a logal contract signed by her father or her
husband or other male guardian; she can be divorced
without cause at the will of her husband. Her
social status is one of perennial servitude; first,
sho is the slave of her father, thon of her husband
*) Jenkinson: op. cit.
B-0279-7

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.98)
75
and finally of her otn son. A married woman has
no property rights and no rights over her children.
Women are forbidden by social customs from going
to places of entertainment with their husbands....
Yet while women ramain subjcct to a partriarchal
code which deprives them of all liberty, they are
exposed to all the brutality of the early forms
of industrial exploitation. They may not enjoy
the scanty political or social rights of men, yet
they have to carn their living side by. side with
men in offices and factori's and farms.
In the streets wonen carry packages and luggage
while their men folk valk in front unburdened. Any
man who treats his wife with consideration is re-
garded as a dangerous radical or at best as a crank.*)
In the occupied countries the Japanese author-
ities estahlished everywhere Monopoly Offices **)
to control and to take over all profitable businesses.
One of their most nrofitable monopolies is the reg-
imented "white slavery".
A special Honopoly Office naintains enormous
files, listing available women of all ages, beginning.
with girls of ten, ai of all nntion-lities. Each
file card incluaed a photograph of the woman, with
) See Otto D. Tolischus' Tokyo Record, New York, 1943.
extracts from: Alexander Pernikoff: Bushido, The
ail tomy of Terror, New York, 1943.

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.99)
-76
a full description and a list of her special attrac-
tions. A prospective customer may choose the
"merchanaise" he likes and then place the order
for any number of girls, for one or for a thousand.
A down payment of thirty percent is then deposited
with the Yokohoma pecie Bank in Harbin, which
handles all these deals. In due time, the buyer
is notified of the arrival of his consignment, which
is delivered to him by the bank against payment of
the balance.
The Monopoly also supervises the sale of girls
by their parents. Any father who wishes to dispose
of his female offspring simply applies to one of
the rural Monopoly branch offices, which then arranges
the sale on a percentage basis. The father receives
sixty per cent of the price, while the Monopoly
keeps the rest of its commission.
All these slaves have no rights whatsoever.
The purchaser becomes the absolute owner of the
girls he has bought and can do anything he chooses
with them. It was estimated that the Prostitution
Lonopoly inported an average of fifteen thousand
Japanese girls into Manchuria each year. It also
handles thousands of local Chinese and.Korean
women.
There is no law to protect the women once
they are bought into a Japanese household. In

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.97)
77一
case of escape they are hunted down by the police
and returned to their owners, who then have the.
right to punish then in any way they deem proper.
Their Government and Policies:
Theoretically Japan is a constitutional mon-
archy. In fact it is a dictatorship without a
personal dictator. It has no Hitler. but dictatorial
powers are exercised by a ruling clique dominated
by the army. Like the Nazis, Japan's dictet ors
have but one object: oppression. of their own people
and despoilment of their ncighbors.
The Constitution provides for a Diet composed
of a House of Peers and a Housc of Representatives,
a Cabinet, and a Privy Council. The Emperor, not
the people, is the supreme source of political
authority, and the Cabinet is responsible to him
and not to the legislature. The Army and Navy
kinisters, unlike thcir civilian colleagues, cnjoy
the right of air ct access to the Emperor. Also,
since they must be officers in active service, m
Cabinet can be formed until Army and Navy head-
quartcrs have approved the appointment of the Minis-
ters of War and Navy. Thus tho Army or the Navy -
as happened repcatedly - can eliminate any cabinot
it dislikcs by a very simple procedure: Tho ruling
B-0279-

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.97)
-78-
army clique requests the Minister of Var - or of the
Navy to rosign and no other officer is allowed to
accopt the cabinet post until the Emperor sclects
men who have the approval of, or rather are des-
ignatad, by th: army. It is thus a self-porpotuating
aictatorship of th. arny. slightly v il d and
sni lded by th symbolic po er of th. Emp ror  and
the hypocritical sham of a purcly d corative but
impotent Dict.
In 1940 all politice1 p rti s .r. dissolved
at the request of th
army end a new "party" created
by the Army clique.
This perty, th "Imperial Rule
assistance arsocioticn" is th only on purnitted,
and its purpose is to "unit all classes into one
fullovship of survice to the Emperor". in renlity
to mobilize popular support for th arny and its
imperialist aime.
Not only is no other political party or move-
mont permitted vhich vould care to opnose or crit-
icize the policies of th rogime, but Japan is
th: only country in the vorld, "hose lams provide
for punishment for "dangerous thoughts".
Following th: dissolution of Japan's political
parties the trade unions were also abolishod, ad
the workers vere compclled to join the "League for
Sorvice to the State Industry." It is an organiza-
tion modelled on the coapulsory 'labor fronts'

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.93)
-79一
organized by the Nazis, the sole purpose of which
1s to squceze out of the workers, in addition to
the regular taxcs, extra contributions for the
rogime - under the guise of union ducs
Thi: if Japan's rul for the Japahese.
3

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.98)
一.80一
IV
THEIR "NEW ORDER" FOR THE REST OF THE WORLD
The short outline of the social system under
which the Japanese "god-descended" people live,
under its own "divine" Emperor, gives us a fore-
taste of the"New Order" reserved for the congucred
regions on which Japan wishcs to bestow its bless-
ings, in the intorim, beforc confcring them on
the whole world.
Concerning the occupied territorics, Navy
Minister Shigetaro Shimada told th Diet:
"The Japanose race must take the lead
not only in the southern regions but
in the whole area comprising the Greater
East Asia Co-Prospcrity Sphere. What's
the use of occupying an arca yhere the
cconomy is in the hande of other races?
The Japanese must see to it that they
form the center of all activities in
Greater East Asia. They must have m
scruples about eliminating any eloments
reluctant to conform to the sphere of
the Japanese race.*)
Licut. Col. sukasa Kato of the Military ffairs
Bureau of the War Ministry supplemented:
"It is imperative that all measures
necessary for Japan's own cxistance
should be carried out resolutcly. Too
much consideration shown for the in-
habitants might engender in their minds
*) Quoted in Otto U. Tolishus: Tokyo Record,
Now York, 1943.

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.99)
81
the tendency to presume on Japan's
kindncss with pernicious offects on
Japanese rule.
A fow instances will illustrate how Japan
applies its "New Order" in thc countries it
occupied and enslaved.
The seizure of Menchuria, effected by the army
in 1931 was the first step in the army's assumption
of absolutc power over Japan and her possessions.
The wealth of Manchuria was taken over by the Japan-
esc army. All of the important cnterprises are held
by big trusts in which the Jap anese state is the
majority stockholder. In other words they are be ing
run by and for the army officers.
The Manchurian farmers have been forced into
"cooperatives" that impose upon then certain quotas
of production often impossibl: to attain. Thcy
must deliver that quota at fixed prices and buy
back .their own food at higher prices.
The gonerals and other officers are converting
conquered Chim into a sort of public property of
the invauing army. In army-ruled Gernany the
busineseaen and industrialists, though still nom-
inally owners of the plants, have no say either in
matters of managenent or in the distribution

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.98)
-82-
of profits. Those functions have been taken ove
by a combination of Nazi party leaders, military
commanders and technical managers. In Japan this
"New Order" is called the "restitution" of all
property to the Emperor. The people are ruquired
to drop their "sclfish interests" in order to
"assist the throne in its divine mission". Wherever
Japan's army arrived in Manchurin or China all
banks, factories, businesses wer taken over "for
the Emperor". -
In Koren - which Japan subjugated in 1894 under
the pious pretext and repeated assertions of solely
intending to prot ct its independence against
China - the propl are forced to surrender their
very souls. They are forced to "ask for the priv
ilege" of joining the Japanese army and changing
their names into Japanese. When the Japanese dec-
ided to abolish the study of the Korean language
even as a cultural subject in the high schools,
the school principals were compelled to petition
the government to eliminate such studies.
The wealth of the country has been pumped
across the sea to Nippon with total disregard
for the welfare of the people. Along the streets
of Seoul, the Korean capital, one sees only Japan-
ese shops filled with Japanese goods. The store
clerks are Japanese, and so are the #ell-dressed
individuals on the side-valke. The Koreans are

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.98)
83-
hawking vegetables, pulling rickshas, carrying
heavy Ioads. The Japanese have acquired pose-
ession of banks, mines and four fifths of the
arable land.
To the farmers, who comprise 80 percent of
the population, the conquest has meant a. system-
atic house-to-house looting. It began as a
search for weapons, and soon became outright seizure
of all articles of value. After three decades
of this, virtually nothing wasleft to the Koreans.
Japanese citizens gained possession of the
land by "legal means" - heavy taxes, exorbitant
charges for irrigation water, loans at rates that
ran up to 70 percent. C1ose to 18,000,000 out of
a total population of 23,000,000 have become tenants
and squatters. The average tenant's share of the
crop, when all deductions are made, gives him an
annual income equivalent to about $10. And if ms
land fails to produce what the authorities regard
as a good. crop he may be forcibly sent to colonize
Fanchurin.
Japanese agricultural specialists have succeeded
in doubling the harvests since 1910. Yet official
figures show that the Koreans themselves now have
only half as much food as they aid before the
annexation. They proauced the fineet rice in the
world, but are obliged to sell it to Japanese mar-
chants. koreans can eat rice only once a wesk --

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.98)
-84-
about two handfuls per person, mixed with barley.
six days a week they subsist on cheap millet im-
 ported from Manchuria.
Today a Japanese coolie can slap or kick a
korean aristocrat and go unpunished. In a post
office or railway station, wherever lines form,
the Japancse must be waited on first.
There are separate schools for the "inferior
race". Host of the teachers are Japanese men who
stand before their classes in belt and sword and
make it clear that the object of education is to
produce "good and loyal subjects of the Emperor".
In 1923, after the Yokohama carthouake, a
rumor was started that Koreans in Janan were plotting
to take advantage of the n tional disaster to
wreak revenge. A pogrom followed. The Encyclo-
pedia Britannica cstimates 9000 were slain. )
The Germans try to justify their conouests
and ambitions with the neccssity of "Lebensraum" -
"living space" for the Germans. The Japancse in
vented for their "Lebensraum" - ambition. a term
intended to be more ingratiating to the peoples
aestined to be absorbed. They.call.it the "Co-
Prosperity Sphere" - This expression sounds much
more benignant, but the methode used by the Japanese
*) From: Korea -- Exibit "A" in Japan's New Order,
by.George Kent in Asia. New York, April 1942.

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.99)
to obtain this "living space" are incomparably
more primitive than those of the Nazie.
Japanese Technique_of Living Bpace*)
It is natural that the Chinese population in
the Hanchurian villages overrun by the Japanese
sympathizcd with the Chinese guorillas and some-
times harbored them. This gave the Japanese army
the desired pretext to decree that all villages
guilty of giving help to the "bandits" were to be
punished summarily. From then on, the problem
was easy. The "guilty villages" were chosen at
random, and Japanese punitive battalions were dis-.
patched to clear them for future Jap nese settlers.
The technique of this "clcaring" process scldom
varied. First, the entire population of the "gui lty
villages" - men, women, and children - were sent
away from their homes, and removed to a concen-
tration camp outside the village.
Then, the die
possessed population would be put to vork remodell-
ing their homes under the supervision of army en-
gineers. As soon as this work was completed end
the remodelled farms ready for occupancy, a court
martial would be held to determine the punishment
of these "bandit supporters". This court, of caurse,
*) Condensed from Alcxander Pernikoff: Bushido,
The Anatomy of Terror, New York, 1943.

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.98)
86
would sentonce them to doath, and then the entire
population would be destroycd in the way so much
the vogue among Japanese soldiers; that is, bay-
oneted to death. Before this mass execution, all
the young women would be, as a matter of course,
raped by their executioners - and then bayoneted
to death.
It is estimated that, in this manner, the Jap-
anese army "prepared" not less than twenty-five
thousand free homes for the settlers within four
months after the occupation of lianchuria. After-
wards the practice was greatly accelerated to
occommodate the ever-increasing number of Japan-
ese iamigrants.
The bayoneting of helpless prison rs was one
of the methods of training Japanese oldiers for
real combat, just as civilized nations are using
bayonet dummies. There was mass bayoneting of
war prisoners during Japan!s previous wars against
China and Russia, though it vae discontinued offi cially
when the whole vorld protestcd.  Since. the seizure
of lianchuria, howover, this nohle practice has
been revised and it had becn in daily use in lan-
churia since the first day of the occupation.
Another method of. exterminating the native
population is wholcsale poisoning with nerootics.
The Japanese turnod Hanohuria into the porld's
chief source of narcotics. Many thousands of

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.99)
8
hectarcs of the fertile Hanchurian soil were, or-
dered sown with red poppics, the source of opium.
Travelers riding along the Chinese Eastern Rail-
way, crossing Manchuria, enjoy the sight of beautiful
red hillsides and plains. This destructive poison,
the cultivation of which had been strictly for-
biauen unaer Chin se law, is now being cultivatad
in inmonse quantitics.
Several narcotic factories opened in Manchuria
under military management. Tons unon tons of the
stupefying drug arc being turned out each month.
In addition to opium, huge quantities of morphine,
heroin, and cocaine are also being manufactured,
and sold in Manchuria. and China. by the. local Monop-
olies.
In Manchuria's capital, in Harbin, hundreds
of Narcotic shops sprang up overnight in every prt
of the town, each operating under a license granted
by the Narcotic lionopoly. But it is prohibited to
sell narcotics to Japanese officers and soldiors.
The prices were intentionally kept at an extrenely
low level. "Trial offers" were made for the benifit
of beginners. Children were among the first to
be affected by this practice. There was no law
banning them from the dens, many of which were
operated near schools. Some of them featured "funior
doses" of opium at still more reduced rates.

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.99)
-88
Entire populations of many Chinese districts
became drug addicts, for narcotics are cheaper and
more plentiful than bread. Manchuria is being
slowly poisoned to death, while the Japanese army
supervises and encourages it, reaping huge finan-
cial benefits. Drugged men are harmless slaves,
and are not inclined or able to fight back or protest.
They die in slow agony without complaining.
This is the "Heaven on Earth" in Japan's "Co-
Prosperity Sphere".

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.97)
一89-
Japan's "Spiritual Culture" - llyth and Reality
Few:people were greeted with nore sympathy
than the Japanesc when, less than eighty years
ago, they decided to join the family of civilized
nations. For decades books and magazine articles
were replctc vith praise for Japan's supcrior art,
the high cthical standards of the people, and its
profound and superior oriental philosophy.
There shall be no dispute about the profundity
of their philosophy, brcause the conception has
not entirely disappeared fron many ninds, that
what is clear and simple is shallow, and what is
mystic, abstruse and obscur, is th: more considered
great and profound wisdom, the nore it is incom-
prhonsible.
Until a few years ago there were still esthotes
who cherished romantic illusions about Japan's
uthical "code of the "arrior", the Bushido, which
they exalted as corresponding to the disaopearing
code of uropean chivalry. Some of the romantic
admirers of the Urient nover forgot stories and
pictures of the knightly Samurai whose Bushido
cthics enjoined then never to think of thomselves,
to live in poverty and abnegation and to dedicate
their lives to defend the weak, to fight for their.
lords and to die rather than to submit to dishoner.
B-0279-P92-BU-008WP

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.97)
- 90 -
This idealrzed picture of the suppo nd old Japan
reflected a certain glamour upon the very realietic
modern Japan.
These legends about imaginary old Japan over-
looked or forgot that as late as 1853 Amerio'n nd
Europenn sailors, "rccked long the Japanese coast
were caged like wild bensts and tortured, not only
for information but in attompts to make them recant
their religious belicfs. *)
Nuither is the fact widely known that it vns
perfectly in accoraance vith the Japanese cthical
codc to massacre disarned prisoners of war, on
condition that they would not be shot, but killod
vith cold steel. Butchering by bayoneting vas
considered ceremoniously correct from the Bushido
point of viev - just as no English rcd-conted
gentlcman shoots = fox, but must leave the killing
to the dogs.
But latcly thcy do not always insist
on this asn ct of Bushido.
The world finally awoke to the fact of Japan's
unrestrained savagery and unnitigated bestiality
at the time. of its assault and sack of Nanking in
Docember, 1937. Undisputable evidence by Amerian
and European observers proved the wholesalc massacre
*) See Edwin E. Falk: From Perry to Pearl Harbor.
The Struggle for Supremacy in the Pacific. New
York, 1943.
B-0279-193-B0-008-NP

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.99)
of disarwed military prisoners after their surrenden
According to careful estimates of distinguished
American and other foreigners who remained in the
city during and after its conquest, approximately
40,000 unarmed persons were killed and 20,000 women
including emall children, raped, many of whom were
bayoneted afterwards. Many buildings in the city,
incluaing embassies, mission houses, the dormit-
ories of school and colleges were entered by the
soldiers and robbed, and the women raped in presence
of the men, who were killed if they tried to inter-
fere.
The New York Times published on January 9, 1938
a report from its Shanghai correspondent F. Tillman
Durdin about the Japanese sack of Nanking.
It is timely to recall a few passages of this
report:
"In taking over Nanking, the Japanese
indulged in slaughters, looting and rapine
exceeding in barbarity any atrocities
committed up to that time in the course
of the Sino-Japanese hostilities. The
unrestrained cruelties of the Japanese
are to be compared only with the vandal ism
in the Dark Ages in Europe or the brutal-
ities of medicval Asiatic conquerers.
"The helpless Chinese troops, disarmed.
for the most part and ready to surrender
were systematically rounded up and exeouted.
Thousands who hed turned themselves over to
the Safety Zone Committee and been placed
in refugee centers were methodioally weeded
out and marched away, their hands tled
behind them, to execution grounds outside
the city gates.

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.98)
-92-
"Small bands who had sought refuge
in dugouts were routed out and shot of
stabbed at the entrance to the bomb shel-
ters. Their bodies vere then shoved into
the dugouts and buried. Tank gune we re
sometimes. turned. on groups of bound
solaiers.
"Every able-bodied male in Nanki ng
was suspected by the Japanese of being
a soldier. An attempt was made by in-
specting shoulders for knapsack and rifle-
butt marks to single out the saldiers
from the civilian males, but in many cases,
of course, men innocent of any military
conncction were put in the exccution
squads.
"Civilians of both sexes and all ages
were also shot by the Japanese. Firemen
and policemen were frequent victims of
the Japanese. Any person who, through
excitement or fear, ran at the approach
of the Japanesc soldiers was in danger of
being shot dovn. Tours of the city by
foreigners during the period when the
Japanese were consolidating their control
of the city revealed daily fresh civilian
dead. Often old men were to be seen face
downward on the pavem nts, apparently
shot in the back at the whim of some
Japanese soldier."
When it became known that after Japan's attack on
Pearl Harbor American and English civilians, newspaper
correspondents and missionaries in Japan, were sub-
jected to the most unspcakable and sadistic tortures,
from which some died 'and others remaincd crippled far
life, and that American nilitary prisoners, the
aviators who flew over Tokyo,: were executed in defiance
of all international lawe ruling civilized nations, a
cry of horror went through the world. It was diffi-
: cult to believe that a nation which claimed to 'be a
modern civilized statc could commit such savageries,
relegated. in our minds to times of prehistoric

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.99)
93
But Japan only acted in accordance with its
past history and traditions. The precendents and
methods followed in its war against China were now
applied against the nations of Europe and America.
It is the way Japan understands civilization, as
defined in a speech made in Tokyo on Jauary 27, 1941,
by the then lHinister of Foreign Affairs. Yosuke
Matsuoko.
"The Manchuria incident and the
China affair are nothing but manifes-
tations of Japan's attempt to forestall
the destruction of civilization. The
Manchuria incident should be terned
the start of construction, not destruction,
of world peace. The Co-Prosperity Sphere
in the Far East is based on the spirit
of Hakko Ichiu, or the Eight Corners
of the Universe under One Roof. It is
not that Anerica's leaders don't under-
stand this, but that they don't try to
understand it."
About a year later the United States Federal
Communication Comnission recordea a broadcast of the
spokesman of the linistry of Foreign Affairs, trans-
mitted by short wave fron Japan to the Eastern United
states and Latin Anerica, and reported by the Office
of War Information and the Associated Fress. The
high point of this statenent was:
"Without the annihilation of America
there will be no true Greater East Asia
Sphere. Therefore, the enemy's destruc-
tion must be carried out in a most dec-
isive manner.
..... And the "New Order" will undoubtedly follow
as soon as they have created their "lehensraum" by
the "annihilation of America".
B-0279-P96-BI-00B-VP

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.99)
-94 -
VI
CONCLUSION
In an address made on January 16, 1943 to the
Woman's National Republican Club in New York, Mr.
Joseph C. Grew, who for many years was United States
ambassador to Japan, resumed the situation and the
attitude we nust take for our own security and
future:
"What worries me in the attitude of our
fellow country-men is.......the utterly fall-
acious pre-war thinking which still widely
persists, that the Japanese.....are incapable
of developing such power as could ever serfously
threaten our home shores, our cities and our
homes, a habit of mind which is reinforced by
the great distances separating our homeland
from the Far. Eastern and Southern Pacific battle
fronts today.
"Moral stimulation is good but moral
complacency is the most dangerous habit of mind
we can develop, and that danger is serious and
ever-present. I have seen with my own eyes in
some cases and I have had first hand vivid per-
sonal accounts in many other cases of the horrible

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.98)
-95 -
tortures inflicted on some of our fellow
citizens by those utterly brutal, ruthless and
sadistic Japanese military police; I received
in Tokyo the first-hand stories of the rape of
Nanking; I have watched during these fateful
years the purposeful bonbing of our American rel-
igious missions throughout China, over three
hundred incidents of infamous destruction of
Anerican life and property, the intentional
sinking of the Fanay, the attempts on the Tutuila
and on our Embassy in Uhungking, and other efforts
on the part of those nilitary extremists to
bring on war with the United States for the
very purpose of leading up to the ev ntual carry-
ing out of th ir full a signs; and I say to you,
rithout nesivation or reserve, that our own
country, our cities, our homes, are in dire peril
from the over-weoning ambition and the potential
power of that Japanesc military machine - a
power that renders Japan potentially the strongest
nation in the world - potentially stronger than
Great britain or Germany or Russia or the
United States - and that only when that military
caste and its machine have been wholly crushed
and dcstroyed on the ficld of battle, by land and
air and sea, and discredited in the eyes of its
B-0279-P98-1U-008WP

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.96)
-96
own people, and rendered impotent either to
fight or further to reproduce itself in the
future, shall we in our own land be free from
that hideous danger and be able once again to
turn to paths of peace."

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.98)
-.97-
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Books and Articles condensed, quoted or consulted
I.
On Japanese Ambition for World Rule.
U. S. Investigation of Un-American Propaganda Activi-
ties. Hearing Before a Special Committee
on Un-American Activities. House of
Representatives. 77th Congress. Apnendix:
Report on Japanese Activities.
Washington - 1942 - Government Printing Office.
Araquistain, Luis: "El Imperialismo Japones". In:
Tiempo
Bogota - February 1, 1942.
Bisson, T. A. : Shadow Over Asia. The Rise of Militant
Japan.
New York = 1941 - Foreign Policy Association.
Headline Books.
Brodie, Fawn: (eaitor) Our Far Eastern Record. (A Ref-
erence Digest on American Policy. Vol. II.)
New York - 1942 - Institute of Pacific Relations.
Byas, Hugh: Government by Assassinetion.
New York - 1943 - A1fred Knopf.
Byas, Hugh: The Japanese Enemy.
New York - 1942 - knopf.
Byas, Hugh: "The Japanese Problen". In: Yale Review
New Haven - Spring, 1943.
Chamberlain, . H.: Japan over Asia
New York - 1939 = Little, Brown & Co.
Colegrove, Kenneth: "Militarisn in Japan's Foreign
Policy". In: Annals of the American
Acadeny of Political and Social Science.
Special issue on America and Japan.
Philadelphia - 1941.
Crow, Carl: Japan's Dream of Vorld Empire: The
Tanaka Remorial.
New York - 1942 - Harper.
B-0279-P100-3

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.97)
二98-
Epstein, Julius: Die Gelbe Pranke. Japan an der
Schwelle der Weltherrechart.
Prag, Leipzig = 1937 = MichaeI Kacha Verlag.
Falk, Edwin E: From Petry to Pearl Harbor. The
Struggle for Supremacy in the Paciric.
New York - 1943 - Doupleday Doran.
Fry, Varian: War in China. America's Role in the
Far East.
New York = 1938 - Foreign Policy Association.
Headl ine Books.
Grew, Joseph C. (Forner Ambassador to Japan): "Address
Before "omen's National Republican Club
in New York
January 16, 1943, In:
The United Nations Review.
New York - 1943.
Lockwood, William W. (Ecitor): Our Far Eastern
Record: (A Reference Digest on American.
Policy - Vol. I. - Bibliography)
New York - 1940 - Institute of Pacific Relations.
McCulloch, John L. B.: Uhallenge to the Americas:
New York - 1940 - Foreign Policy Assoclation
Headline Books.
Hatsuo, Kinoaki: How Japan Plans to Win:
Boston - 1942 - Little Brown.
Mowrer, Lilian T.: Rip Tide of Aggression:
New York - 1942 - Ti1liam  orrow & Co.
Price, Willard: Japen Rides the Tiger
New York - 1942 - John Day.
Takashi, Shingoro: "A Fan asiatic: Union. A Japanese
Conception"
:In:: Annels of American
Academy of Political and Social Science.
A special issue on America and Japan.
Philadelphia - 1941.
Timpe ley, H. G. Japan: A orld Problem.
New York - 1942 - Jonn Day
Tolischus, Otto D.
Tokyo Record
New York - 1943.= Reyna1 & Hitchcock.
Utley, Freda: Japan's Feet of Clay.
New York - 1937 - W. W. Norton.

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.98)
 99-
Japanese Activities in Letin America
Deals. Carlton: The Coming Struggle for Latin merica.
Philadelphia - 1938 - Lippincott.
Beals, Carlton: "Japan Inyades Latin America.". In:
The American Mercury.
New York - March 1935.
Behrendt, Richard F. "Foreign Influences in Latin
America". In:  The Annals of the Americ
Academy of Political and Social Science.
Fhiladelphia - July - 1939.
Bradley, Anita: Trans-Pacific Relations of Latin
America.
New York - 19z2 - Institute of Pacific Relations.
Hodges, Charles G.:  "Japanese Ambitions in Latin
America"
In: Sunset.
San Francisco - October 1916.
Porter, Catherine: "Japan's Fonetration of Latin
America".
In: Far Enstern Survey.
New York - May 22, 1935.
Sawaaa, Setsuzo:
"Observations on South America".
In: Contemporary Jopan.
Tokyo - August 1939.
A. Japanese in Mexico.
Bornstein, Henry:
: "Texico's War with Japan". In:
Far Eastern Survey.
Nem York - November 30, 1942.
Janeway, E.: "Hexico, Tokyo, Borlin and the Oil Axis".
In: Asia.
New York - September 1938.
Kirk, Betty: "Hexico's War on Hidden. Japanese". In:
The Inter-American.
Washington, D. C. - January 1943.
Kirk, Betty: Chapter: "Japan's keleton Army". In:
Covering the Liexican Front.
Oklahoma University Press - 1942.
Nieto, R.: "Vexico, Japan and the Unfted States." In:
Living Age.
New York - October 3, 1925.
B-0279-P108-B0-008-10P

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.98)
100-
B. Japanese in Peru.
Alegría, Ciro & Saco, Alfredo:
"Japanese Spearhead
in the Americas"
In: Free World
New York - February 1942.
Alegria, Ciro & Saco, Alfredo: "30,O00 Japoneses
Foman la Quinta Columna del Poru".
In: Norte.
New York - February 1942.
Gerbi, Antonello: The Jananese in Peru (Part IIof:
The Jananese in South America. By J. T.
Formano and Antonello Gerbi)
New York - 1943 - Institute of Pacific Pel ations.
C. Japanese in Brazil.
"Jap an in Brazil". In: Newsweek
New York - Septenber 5, 1936
Lacerd=, Carlos: "Em Busca ao Sol Naciente". In:
Estado de Minas,
Belo Horizonte - December 17, 1941.
Normano, J. F. & Gerbi, Antonello: The Japanese in
South America. (Part I. The Japanese
in Brazi1)
New York - 1943 - Institute of Pacific Rel ations.
white, John W.: "Japanese Pincers. in Brazil". In:
Saturday Evening Post.
Philadelphia - June 27, 1942.
III. Mikado Worship to be the Religion of
the Vorld.
Fujisawa, Chikao: "The Great Shinto Purification
Ritual and the Divine Mission of Ni ppon.
A Prophesy of the Dawn of a New Age. In:
Tolishus' Tokyo Record.
Holton, D. C.: Modern Japan and Shinto National ism.
À study in present day trend in Japan-
ese religion.
Chicago - 1943 - University of Chicago Press.
B-0279-P103-B0-00B-

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.96)
-101-
Olde, Bulhell C.: "Japan Harg Je Re)
National Service
New York - April, 1943.
Steiner, Jesse F.: Behind the Japeneae
New York - 1942 - Macmi11an Coup
IV. and V. Japan' "New Order".
Jonieinson, Anthony: Know Yowr Enemy: Japan
New York - 1942 - Amerioan Council, Institute
of Pacific Relations.
Pernikoff, Alexander: Bushido. The Anatomy of Terro
New York - 1943 - The Macmi11an 00.
Timperley, H. J.: (Chinese Correspondent Mancheeter
Guardian): Japanese Terror in China
New York - 1938 - Lodern Age Books.
Files of Magazines.
Hemisphere, New York - 1940 to 1941
The Inter-American, Washington, D. C., 1942, 1943.
Pan-American News, Washington, D. C., 1940, 1941.
Quarterly of Inter-American Relations, Cambridge,
January 1939, 1940.
Iuter-American Quarterly, 7ashington, D. C., 1940, 1941.
B-0279304

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.97)
EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
OFFICE POR EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
COORDINATOR OF INTER-AMERICAN AFFAIRS
PARTMENT BUILDING
NSTON, D. C.
July 7, 1943
Mr. John Begg
Assistant Chief
Division of Cultural Rolati
Department of Stath
Washington, D. C.
JUL 8 -1943
DEPAHT MENT OF STATE
Dear Mr. Begg:
The Radio Division is pleased to submit herewith for
your review, use and comment a rather comprehensive
study entitled "Japan's Menace to the Americas."
894.20210/227
This is of timely interest in view of the probability
that operations in the Pacific theater of the war will
be intensified during the coming months.
This study was prepared by Mr. Stephen Naft, inter-
national journalist and scholar, who also prepared
the roport "One Hundred Years of German Ambitions in
Latin America" which was so widely used. In both
studies Miss Gabrielle Swados advised Mr. Naft on
the suitability of the material for radio use. Kr.
Naft consulted the most significant publications in
this country on the subjects of Japanese ambitions
for world rule, Japanese activities in Latin America,
and Mikado worship and the "New Order." The work was
done under the general supervision of Mr. Russell
Pierce.
OCT 181943
The report was prepared specifically for use in our
FILED
/JK
Hemisphere radio efforts and we feel that the actual
documentation of quotations will make very convinoing
material for a number of radio programs.
Sincerely yours,
Nh. thanuio
Don Francisco
Director, Radio Division
Enclosure
11191
oni e

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.99)
July 21, 1943.
CI/L - Mr. Myers:
Here are two copies of the CIAs
survey on Japan whioh Mr. Dreier men-
tioned to you earlier. I understand
that you plan to send one oopy to FE.
We will be glad to receive your com-
monts on this.
Richard A. Yahraes
CI/L:RAY:DRJ

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.98)
JAPAN'S MENACE TO THE AMERICAS
(A Stuay prepared for the Radio Division -
Coordinator of Inter-Anerican Affairs)
by
Stephen Naft
1943
E-0279-22

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF THE ÂMERICAN REPUBLICS
September 8, 1943
FE - Mr. Bedninghoff:
"Japan's Menace to the Amerfcae"
BIMENT OF
RAOEIVAID
COM
With reference to our telephone
conversation this afternoon,Im send
ing you herewith the pamphlet put out
by the Radio Division of the Cogrdina
tor's Office entitled "Japan's Menace
your offer to provide me with more
detailed comments on the objections
which are extended to the final section
of this pamphlet, namely, chapters 3 to
5. As I told you, the Coordination
Committee in Ecuador is planning certain
radio programs based on this pamphlet
and I think the Mission should be
supplied with our commente concerning
the pamphlet. You will find attached
to this file my draft instruction to
Quito which will presumably enolose a
FILED
Ws
Wells Stabler
194
RA:WS:LMS

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.92)
Soptamber 14, 1048
n.237
To the Ofriser in eharge of the American Missiem,
Qaite.
The Seeretary of State transmits herevith eommwmi-
894.20210/22
catien me. E-1537, dated August 30, 1943, addressed to
the Chairman ef the Geeréination Commistee Fer Bemader
by Mr. Den Franeisce, Direster er the Radie BMvisien.
Ofriee of the Ceerdimator of Inter-Ameriean Affairs.
of the Committee based on the beeklet eatislee "Japen's
Menace to the Amerieas". The efrieer in sharge is re-
quested to forward this cemanieatien to the aadresses
if me objection 1s perecived therete. A eopy ef the
cemmmmieation is enolosed for the files of the Embassy.
In connestiem with the preparatien of seripts
PS
randum certain precautieas should be cbserved is the
proparation of radie seripts.
Eeelesures:
16
cat
2.
SEP 13 1945

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.97)
Anerleae
Chapter III
m1s chapter disousses the mythe of Japan's origin
bries in the Book of Genesis constitute the Christian
story of the beginnings of man. In general the state-
ments appearing in this chapter are true and have been
made by Japanese leaders from time to time. I believe
that it 1s a mistake to state that the Japanese propose
to impose their own religion on other nations. They have
1mposed it on the Koreane, but these people have the
status of Japanese subjeots. The recent trend has been
for the Japanese to attempt to divert or utilize the
religions in ocoupied territories for their own use. In
this oonneotion, it 1s suggested that for propaganda pur-
poses in South America it might be well to utilize the
manner in whioh the Japanese Army in the Philippines 1s
using the Catholio Churoh there to further its own
political ends.
Chapter IV
This chapter which attempts to desoribe living and
social conditions 1: Japan 1s, it 1s thought, distinotly
unfair. It is true that the people are worked very hard,
that the agrioultural situation is bad, that there 1s
widespread poverty, and that women do not enjoy as favor-
able a position in soclety as in western nations. However,
these people are used to these conditions and know no other;
henoe it cannot be said that they are unhappy or are grumbling
against conditions. The desoription on page 74 of the position
of Japanese women in society is inacourate. At the present
time women have certain legal rights, and, for inatanee,
cannot be divoreed without cause as was formerly the case.
Neither can a husband sell his wife to a feotory or 
brothel without her consent, although in certain oiroum-
stanoes a father may do so. On pages75 and 76 there 1s a
deseription or a white slave "monopoly", extraeted from a
sensational book by Alexander Pernikeff. It is true that
the abuses desoribed in his book aetually teok plaee, but
It would be Just as true to state that Al Oapone was typseel
of every Amerioan city.
Chapters V and vI
I have no partioular suggestions in regard to shese
chapters. It 1s assumed that this material will met be
queted

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.93)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF CULTURAL RELATIONS
July 17, 1 43
CI/L - I r. . S. : yers:
I have read this renort with interest,
and I should appreciate any corments you
or your collearues in FE miht care to
make on it.
IVED
SEP 11
V M
DVSION OF
JUL 19 1943
RC:JMBegg: JEG

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.95)
iHec
EMORANDUM
C1/L-leur :
RA - Mr. Dreier:
Reference your tag of July 16 concerning the under-
lying pamphlet "Japan's Menace to The Americas"
894.20210
I question the suitability, in their present rorm,
of Chapters III to V inal usive of this pamphlet as back-
gro und material for persons engaged in propaganda to the
Latin Amerioan countries. Although much or the material
contained therein can be substantiated, this part of the
pamphlet is mainly a ∞mpilation or sensational features
which are not shown in their true perspeotive and there-
fore would be likely to create a aistorted impression in
the mind or a reader unfamiliar with the situation.
Accordingly, I feel that it woula be unwise to use these
ghapters without appropriate revision.
M. S. Myers
FULED
141943
Confidential File
CI/L:MSM:MOMN

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.86)
4
MD/1
CONFIDEN
a reply reter
WAR
PARTMENT
t
1194
巨
1943
Subjeot:
Summary of Information:
Records of this office reflect the follewing informatien on passengers
sehokaled te arrive in kiani, 23 Movember 1943:
TRANOISCO CXTIZ
I letter addressed to Dr. Alberto Gées Telles, Mio de Jameiro, bere
the retarm adáress of Fransisee Ortiz, Buenos Aires; amether lester
addressed te Dr. Ary de Aaárade Figueira bore no retura mdáress.
The envelepe sdaressed to Tellee costained & letter reguestins him
letter comsisted ef a code message and asther sommanicatien in
Japamese. The cmvelepe adáressed to Dr. Figusire cestaimed twe
Letters in Japanese addressed to R. Magai. An intereepted letter
à eede message, whem deceded stated in part "as for year meseegee
addressed to fransisse Ortés, besasse ef conserakip have had no
DEC
the meani
Previous Distribution:
Distribmtion:
DEC 14 1943
Ttalk
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ce
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.93)
RIVIRIAN N
1944
XR
REOEIVED
Date:
January -4 1944
JAN 4 - 1RFSSONAL AUD CONFIDEITIAL
JAN 8 - 1944
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
To:
sistant Secrete
of state
From:
Dirootor, Federal Bysbau of Investigati
JANA J044
subjeot:
JAPSA CASE
222
with which you were furnished a memorandum concerning the above captioned case.
This case invclves a Japanese espionage ring operating principally in Buemos
Aires, Argentina; Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; and Santiago, Chile, for the purpose
of forwarding intelligence information to Japan.
2
0
As of possible further interest to you, there is attached hereto a
2
mmorandum covering a summary of the information gathered to date at Rio de
Janeiro. In addition thereto there is also furnished you a ohart setting forth
graphically the individuals in the case and their connection one with the other.
22
It will be remembered that there have been five coded messages inter-
cepted in this case, two of which were ineluded in the letter pestmarked at
Buenos Aires on December 4, 1942, and addressed to Alberto Goes Telles in Rie de
Janeiro, which letter is described in the attaohed memorandum. These twe
messages were designated for Suetake Hayao, who was formerly the Seoond seeretary
of the Japanese Embassy in Rio de Janeiro prior to the severanee of diplomatie
relations between Brasil and Japan. Since April 21, 1943, Hayao has beem emaleged
eations to Hayao has been decoded.
Santiago, Chile, to Francisco Ortis in Buenos Aires, both centaining ceded eamr
mmieations, decodes for whioh have not as yet been effected. The eemmmisatiem
postmarked January 22 bore the return address of Rodolfo Ibarra, while the seeemd
bore no return address. Investigatien in Santiago, Chile, at Galves 1sl, wideh
was the return address given by Rodolfo Ibarra, fails to reveal amy persemky
B
with sire One, a Japanese presently deesased whe had heen aetive in Japamese
espiomage in Chile. It is kmown that Aurelie Ibarra has received a ee
Brittan in Japanese whioh bere the return address of Carlos R. Belatmde, 
Seetion aad holds the position of "Reeeptor de Mmor Cuantimapm 
de pandera 361."

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.99)
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
The fifth communication which has been intercepted in this case is
one postmarked at Buenos Aires on February 10, 1943, addressed to Candido
Santidrian (Castillo). The encoded message enolosed in this communication has
been decoded and the plain text has been set out starting on page 18 of the
memorandum previously submitted to you. Investigation in Santiago, Chile, fails
to reveal the identity of the addressee. It has been ascertained, however,
that Alberto Veloz (Santa Cruz), a Chilean and known Japanese propagandist, is
the owner of Casilla 6lOl, Correo No. 5, Santiago, Chile, which is the address
of the communication to Santidrian. He has acted as an intermediary for the
Japanese in the case entitled "Tomigyo Koseki," information concerning which has
been previously furnished you, and it is apparent that he has furnished the
Japanese involved in this espionage ring with the facilities for receiving
communications from Buenos Aires. It is also apparent that he has furnished
the cover name of Candido Santidrian (Castillo) which is quite similar to the
name of his father-in-law, Candido Santidrian (Teran). Investigation reveals
that the real Candido Santidrian (Teran) is not engaged in espionage activity,
and it is thought that his name has probably been used without his consent.
Santidrian is the holder of Chilean Prontuario Civil No. 1,46l,437, which reveals
that he was born February 2, 1880 in Burgos, Spain; that he still maintains his
Spanish citizenship; that he arrived in Chile in 1907; and that he presently
resides at Calle Cuevas l494. He is a man of humble origin and is practically
illiterate; it is believed that he is in no way engaged in subversive activity.
All the Japanese subjects who have resided in Chile and who have
been active in instant espionage case have been repatriated to Japan. The re-
patriation took place in September of 1943 and the following mentioned individuals
have left Chile for Japan:
Takeo Ozasa
Takeo Takano
Kennosuke Kawaguchi
Kaname Nakayama
Teruo Miyaki
Fukunosuke Nomura
Yei Mamiya
Akira Abe
Sueuki Nakatsuka
Ko Kawamura
Itsuki Takada
Motozo Hattori
Yonosuke Hagiwara
Akira Uye
It will be remembered that Goro Miyasaki, the former manager of the
Compania Chilena Oriental, is known to have arranged for and planned the robbery
against the American Cultural Attache in Santiago, Chile, in the belief that he
was the intelligence officer of the American Embassy. It will also be remembered
that at the time that Miyasaki's location was searched at Arica, Chile, by agents
of the Department of Investigations a number of maps of ports, airports, coastal
defenses and mineral regions were found. From July until September 12, 1945,
Miyasaki lived at 165 Avenida Olmos, City of Cordoba, Argentina, with Hidenosuke
Ueda under technical detention, awaiting deportation as an undesirable alien.
During this period both subjeots had apparently traveled throughout the Province
of Cordoba without restriotion and contacted both Japanese and German nationals
who are suspected of being engaged in espionage activities. On September 12,
Miyasaki left Cordoba and journeyed to Buenos Aires, and on October 10, l94s,
Ueda followed him to that city. Both are presently living in the Alvear palace
Hotel.
-2-

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.99)
onorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Investigation is continuing in Argentina and Brazil. You will be
furnished with the results of such investigation as soon as they are made
available to this office.
cc - Director of Naval Intelligence
Navy Department, Washington, D. C.
cc - Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
War Department, Washington, D. C.
Attention: Colonel L. R. Forney
Attachments

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.98)
Rio de Janeiro
RL: JAPSA CASE
ISOMA KOBAYASHI - FRANCISCO ORTIS
By way of brief reforence relative to the basis of the instant
investigation, it was ascertained on September of 1942 that two com-
munications postmarked at Buenos Aires, Argentina, were intercepted.
One communication bore the return address of FRANCISCO ORTIS, Tucuman
1687, Buenos Aires; the other bore no return address. Source "A" has
advised, however, that both communications were written by the same
person. These comnunications were addressed respectively to DR.
ALBERTO GOES TELLES, Avenida Rio Branco 143, 4th floor, Rio de Janeiro
and to DR. ARY P. de ANDRADE FIGUEIRA, Rua do Rosario 107. 3rd floor,
Rio de Janeiro.
Source "A" has advised that DR. FRANCISCO ORTIS has been
identified as an elderly lawyer, sorving as counsol for tho NAMBEI
TRADING COMPANY of Bucnos Aires. It has been revealed that he served
as Argentino Consul in Tokyo for a period of approximately twenty
229
years. The addross, Tucunan 1687, is tho home of ORTIs.
In his capacity as counsol for thoNAMBEI TRADING COMPANY, it
is known that ORTIS was requestod by IsOMA KOBAYASHI, manager of tho
company, if he, ORTIs, would be willing to sorve as an intcrmediary
for the transmission of Japaneso corrospondonco from Chilo to tho
NAMBI hoadquartors at Buonos Airus. Inasmuch as ORTIS was counsol
for this company ho allowod this procoduro to be carried on until he
received codod mossagus, and as a consoquonce advised KOBAYASHI that
ho would not bo willing to continuo under such circumstancos.
Sourco "A" has also advisod that an intorceptod communication,
dated Octobor 1, 1942, at Buunos Aircs, addressed to ENRIQUE OLIVOS,
MANUEL CORREO, Post Offico Box 2l06, Santiago, Chilo, diroctod the
addrosseo to rofor to a provious communication, datod Soptombor 16,
1942, whorein tho namos and addrossos of ccrtain intormodiarios for
corrospondonco wcro sut forth, and instructcd tho addrossoo to coaso
using "A of 5" which appoars to havo boon tho addross of DR. FRAN-
CISCO ORTIS, Tucuman 16B7. It would appoar that as FRANCISCO ORTIS
had oxprossod his unwillingnoss to continuo furthor as an intormodiary
for tho Japanoso corruspondoncc ho is no longer boing usud.
Source "A" has furthor advisod that tho NAMBBI TRADING COMPANY
formorly locatod at San Martin 379, and prosontly locatod at Larrea
1287, Buonos Aircs, is a Japanosc importing and oxporting company
which is controllcd by tho Japanoso Mitsui intorosts. This organi-
zation was incorporatcd as Sociodado Anonima on January 14, 1937 for
a poriod of fifty yoars with a subscribod apital of 50,0oo Argontino

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.98)
pesos. Its manager and president, ISOMA KOBAYASHI, who resides at
Juramento 108574, is a close associate of the Japanese Ambassador at
Buenos Aires. KOBAYASHI is a Japanese national, was born in Japan,
and has been manager of the NAMBEI COMPANY since his arrival in
Argentina in October, 1939.
Source "A" has ascertained that other communications, some of
which were coded or in cipher, were forwarded through FRANCISCO ORTIS,
for the NAMBEI TRADING COMPANY manager, KOBAYASHI, to addresses in
Santiago, Chile, which appear to be drop boxes for Japanese espionage
information. It has been further ascertained by Source "A" that the
typewriter used to prepare the messages directed to Santiago was also
used in preparing tho intercepted letters directed to DR. ALBERTo GOES
TELLES and ARY P. de ANDRADE FIGUEIRA in Rio do Jandiro.
Enclosed in a letter to DR. TELLES was a letter written in
Japanese which requested "IR. NAGAI dcliver still anothor enclosed
envelopc to MR. HAYAO". The envolope dirccted to HAYAO contained a
letter on which was writton a codod mossage, as yet undociphered. In
the letter directed to FIGUEIRA was onclosed an envolopo to MR. R.
NAGAI. The NAGAI referred to in the letters has beon identified as
RYOKICHI NAGAI, and tho LiR. HAYAO ruforrod to is known to bo SUETAKA
HAYAO, Japanese ropresentativo at tho Spanish Embassy in Rio de
Janeiro. As indicatod above, it appears that both of theso letters
wore written by tho same individual, prosumably ISOMA KOBAYASHI or one
of his roprcsontativos.
Sourco "B" adviscd that othor corrospondenco is known to havo
passed subsoquont to Soptembor, 1942 bctwcon RYOKICHI NAGAI and
ISOMA KOBAYASHI of Buonos Aires. Ono communication which boro tho
roturn addross of RYOKICHI NAGAI, Rua Hugo Bozcrra 241, Rio de
Janciro, was posted on May 22, 1943, and was diroctod to MR. ISOMA
KOBAYASHI, Larroa 1287, Buonos Aires. Still anothor lottor was sent
by NAGAI somotime in Fobruary of 1943 to tho NAMBEI TR DING COLiPANY of
Buonos Aircs.
From tho information devolopod it would appoar that considcra-
blo corrospondonco has passcd botwoen DR. ARY P. DE ANDRDE FIGUEIRA
and tho NAMBEI TR.DING COMPANY of Buonos Aircs. DR. FIGUEIRA advisod
Sourco "C" that hc is tho represontative of tho Yokohama Spocio Bank
of Rio do Janoiro but at the prosont timo handlos very fow mattors
of this concern in viow of tho fact that it is undor tho fiscalization
of the Brazilian govornment and is not offocting much businoss. Hc
also indicatod that ho had reproscntod various other Japanoso concorns
from time to timo but at prcsont had sovorod all rolations with such
concorns except tho Yokohama Spccio Bank. Ho statod that for a timc
he was tho roprosontativo, under power of attorney, for tho Sociodado
Commorcial Nipo-Brasiloira, a rcprcsontativo of tho Mitsui Branch
Offico of Now York City and which at tho presont timo doos vory littlo
businoss. Ho stated that in connoction with tho managomn t of the
-2-

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.98)
affairs of this concern he had received several communications
from the Nambei Trading Company of Buenos Aires, which also appearea
to be interested in the affairs of the Sociedade. He exhibited to
Source "C" a file relative to the Sociedade Comercial Nipo-Brasileira
in which were observed a number of communications to and from the
Nambei Trading Company of Buenos Aircs. It was not possible, however,
for Source "C" to review this file or to observe it closely, nor was
it possiblo under the circumstances to question DR. FIGUEIRA closely
concerning the contents of the comnunications. It was not learned as
to whether any of the comaunications bore the roturn address or were
directed to FRANCISCO ORTIS as an intermodiary for the corrospondence.
DR. FIGUEIRA stated that he had accepted a power of attorney
to handle the affairs of the Sociedade after boing requestod by
frionds connected with the Yokohama Specie Bank of Rio de Janoiro,
and by persons connected with tho Socicdado Comorcial Nipo-Brasi-
leira. Ho stated that he had conferred with rcpresentatives of the
British and American Embassies rclative to accepting the powor of
attorney, indicating that ho did not dusire to cffoct new business
for the concorn but would only handlo logal matters. He indicatod
that he had conferrod with Amorican and British rcprosentatives duo
to the fact that tho Socicdado was, and still is, on tho British and
Amorican Proclaimod Lists. Ho actually bogan to handlo tho affairs
of the company about May of 19l2 and continuod as attornoy for the
concorn until about February, 1943. When quostioncd by Sourcc "C"
as to his reasons for suvoring his rolations with tho concern, ho
stated that ho did not dosire to continue in this capacity aftor
Brazil's doclaration of war against Germany. In this conncction it
should bo notod that although DR. FIGUEIRA stated that ho actually
coased handling thc affairs of thc Sociodado shortly aftor Brazil's
doclaration of war, it appeers that his rcsignation did not actually
bocomo offoctivo until about Fobruary, 1943. Hc statod that his
patriotism for Brazil cnd his sympathios for tho Allicd causo had
brought about his rosignation, togcther with tho fact that mombors of
"the company" in Buonos Airos, prcsumably roprcsontatives of the
Namboi Trading Company, porsistod in carrying on corrospondonco with
him and persistod in attompting to uso him as an intormediary ir
correspondonco, and, furthor, had roqucstod him to obtain "cortain
information" which ho did not focl that tho Japanoso intorests should
havo. Whon qucstioned moro closoly by Source "c" as to tho type of
information dosirod and as to tho other mattors montioned above,
DR. FIGUEIRA was rathor ovasive and morcly statod that tho principals
in Buonos Airos only roquestcd commorcial information, principally
curront pricos of coffoc, cotton, micu and othor Brazilian
comroditios. Although FIGUEIRA was rathor vaguc in oxplaining tho
typo of information dosired by tho Japanoso intorcsts in Buonos
Aires, hc did commont that it had novor occurred to him that thoy
worc scoking information of an ospionage character inasmuch as tho
data requestod was of a commerciai nature. Source "c" has advised
that FIGUEIRA did not appear to be entirely honest in his explanation
of these matters.
-3-

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.98)
FIGUEIRA commented that he refused to furnish information to
NAlBEI interests in Buenos Aires and advised the principals that he
had accepted the power of attorney for the sole purpose of represent-
ing the company legally and he did not desire to effect new business
for the company nor would he be a party to any agreement whereby he
would be used as an intermediary for correspondence. He advised the
Argentine represontativos that if they were not satisfied with his
handling thc affairs of the SOCIEDADE COMERCIAL NIPO-BRASILEIRA.
solely from a logal standpoint, he would rosign his power of attorncy.
As a result of this oxchango of corrospondence, FIGUEIRA did resign
his power of attorney, and sovorcd all rulations around the first of
the year, 1943.
Prior to his actual resignation, NAMBEI representatives
requested him to recomnend an attorney who would take over the affairs
of the SOCIEDADE. He rocomnended DR. ALBERTO GOES TELLES who accepted
the assignment and continues in this capacity at the present time.
FIGUEIRA added that TELLES had accepted the position due to the fact
that his daughter, LYSETTE, was then employed by the SOCIEDADE and he
was already familiar with porsons connected therewith. LYSETTE
is prosently employed in a non-confidential capacity by the U. S.
RUBBER DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION in Rio and further information concern-
ing her activities arc set forth below.
With regard to TELLEs' being recommended to the Japanese,
FIGUEIRA commented that TELLES was also a "good Brazilian" and ho was
certain thut he would not engago in questionable activity. He further
stated that he had had littlc contact with TELLES and the affairs of
the SOCIEDADE since his rcsignation and he did not lmow whothor TELLES
was corrosponding rogularly with MITSUI reprosentatives in Buenos
Aires at tho presunt time, but would make inquiry in this regard and
advise Source "c". In this connection it should be observed that
Sourco "D" has boon roquestcd to advise of any correspondonco passing
between TELLES, FIGUEIRA and others with persons in Buonos Airos and
inquiry in this rospect has bocn negativc to dato.
From information submitted by Source "B", it would appear that
FIGUEIRA was actually not performing as attorney for the SOCIEDADE
COMERCIAL NIPO-BRASILEIRA to the satisfaction of the Japanese princi-
pals in Buenos Aires. This contention is based on the fact that
NAGAI in writing to the NAMBEI COMPANHIA IMPORTACION, S. A. Larrea
1287, Buenos Aires (exact date not lmown, but presumably around the
first of the year, 19l3) stated as follows:
"DR. TELLES has already spoken with a man who refused
to send details as requested, it therefore being use-
less to intervene since ARY TELLES (in error, apparently
referring to ARY P. ANDRADE FIGUEIRA) refused to write
to the addressees....... The present situation does
not permit compliance with the request and tho only
solution is to order DR. GOES TELLES to replace
DR. ARY FIGUEIRAS (FIGUEIRA)."
-4-

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.98)
NAGAI in his 1etter of May 22, 1943. directed to I. KOBAYASKI,
Larrea 1287, Buenos Aires wrote as follows:
".....Regarding the firm, the present 'procurador',
DR. GOES TELLES, has made all arrangements with me
and everything is in order and alright....."
It would seem from the above communication that TELLES was
accepted as satisfactory by NAGAI as well as the Japanese in Buenos
Aires. It would also appear significant, that TELLES received the
letter dated September 4, 1942 signed FRANCISCO ORTIZ, requesting him
to deliver an onclosed letter to RYOKICHI NAGAI, which in turn was
found to contain still another onclosure to SUETAKA HAYAO, containing
a codo or cipher. At this time, FIGUEIRA was admittedly still the
attorney for tho SOCIEDADE COMERCIAL NIPO-BRASILEIRA, but TELLES was
alroady sorving as an intormodiary for tho Japanose correspondonco.
The samo individual who wrote thc letter to TELLES was found to have
also writton thc lotter to FIGUEIRA dated Soptombor 3, 1942 containing
an onclosure for NAGAI, which upon translation was found to rolate to
the handling of the affairs of the "NICHI-IIAKU Co." (believed to refer
to the SOCIEDADE COMERCIAL NIPO-BRASILEIRA, LTDA.) In this letter
addressed to NAGAI was written the following:
"P. S. How would it do to send comuunications from
here addressed to a lawyer of the NICHI-HAKU CO.
by the name of TELLEs? Please answer."
Source "A" has advised that this paragraph of the letter to
NAGAI which was written in Japanese is also subject to the following
translation:
"From this place to you, how about sending addressed
"TELLER" (TELLES) without putting on "JAPAN BRAZIL
CO."(NICHI-HAKU CO.)
It would appear that the subjects in Buenos Aires, presumably
ISOlIA KODAYSHI, did not wait for an answer, as the letter containing
enclosures for NAGAI and HAYA0 dated September 4, 1942, only a day
later, was directed to TELLES. It should also be noted that in the
letter to both FIGUEIRA and TELLES, reference was mado to "Communi-
cation No. 7", apparcntly sont by NAGAI, which would indicate that
persons in Buonos Airos had not hoard from NAGAI in the moantime.
FIGUEIRA in discussing the affairs with SOURCE "C" of the
SoCIEDADE statod that prior to his rcsignation, he had rocommendod
to the ropresentatives of tho NAI BEI TRADING COIlPANY, Buonos Aires,
also a MITusI subsidiary, that tho company bo placod in liquidation.
He was advisod by lotter howover, that it was not dosired that tho
company bo placed in liquidation, but proferred that it romain a
"sleeper company". It appcars from information furnishod by Sourco "A"
-5-

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.98)
41
that MITSUI interests proposed to havo its subsidiaries romain as
"sleeper companies", and further, Source "A" has advised that it is
known that the Japanese Ambassador in Buenos Aires was empowered by
the Japanese Foreign Office to use the personnel of the MITSUI
companies for investigative operations concerning "American conditions"
and also was allowed to employ other'Japanese mercantile personnel in
a similar manner. It is suggested that in view of the concern over
the status and position of Brazilian concerns, particularly the
NICHI HAKU CO. (SOCIEDADE COMERCIAL NIPO-BRASILEIRA, LTDA.) aS
indicated in the FIGUEIRA letter, representatives hoped to keep their
Brazilian subsidiaries free from nationalization and supervision of
the Brazilian Government, possibly so that they could be used as a
cloak for intelligonce activities. It appcars significant, however,
that DR. ALBERTO GOES TELLES and RYOKICHI NAGAI aro the only porsons
known to bo prosontly connected with the SOCIEDADE CONERCIAL NIPO-
BRASILEIRA, LTDA., which now appoars to bo inactive in a business way
as will be indicated below. It will be observod from the rosults of
tho investigation so far, however, that some suspects boliovod to bo
connoctod with this case are cmploycd by various JAPANESE-BRAZILIAN
companius, which are allegodly controllod diroctly or indirectly by
MITSUI or MITSUBISHI intercsts.
SOCIEDADE COMERCIAL NIPO-BRASILEIRA, LTDA.
Source "A" has advisod that thc luttor written in Japanoso to
RYOKICHI NAGAI datud Soptomber 3, 19L42 at Buonos Airus and onclosod
in the lettor to ARY P. ANDRADE FIGUEIR can bc translatod as follows:
"No 6 Sept. 3, 1942
"Your No. 7 was certainly received.
"Because of the declaration of war by Brazil against Germany and
Italy I think there has been a stiffening of her attitude towards
Japan, so I am anxious about you. In the future I desire more than
ever to hear from you as to your well being.
"Concerning the matter mentioned in the former letter, I under-
stand that the arrangement is for managers to give three months ad-
vance notice when resigning, so there is no alternative but to en-
trust the property of the Nichi-Haku C∂. (Japan-Brazil Co.) to the
management of the Brazilian government. However discuss with the
Yokohama Specie Bank whether there is any other suitable plan and
let me kmow.
"If the company registers its name with the Patent Bureau, for
one conto property can be hold for fifteon years, so I think I would
like to have it handled in tho above manner.
-6-

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.99)
"Also, if the government takes it over, what about your salary
and other things provided for by your contract with the Nichi-Haku
Co.?
"Next, plese give attention to the following points:
"(1) For the time being don't send thick letters, as you have
been doing. For the differont communications, stop at three or four
pages of thin paper pasted together.
"(2) Do not affix your seal. (Stop using company postage.)
"(3) Change the address on letters from time to time. I want
to request this definitely from you.
"Best regards in spite of the fact that I have scribbled hastily
with pencil before receiving your number four. Report briefly only
the essentials.
"P.S. How would it do to send communications from here addressed
to a lawyer of thc Nichi-Haku Co. by the name of Telles? Please
answer."
Source "A" has furthor advised that the reference to "NICHI-HAKU
CO." is literally translated as "JAPAN-BRAZIL CO", and would be tho
ordinary way that a Japanoso would write SOCIEDADE COMERCIAL NIPO-
BRASILEIRA. It would appear that this is the concern referred to in-
asmuch as FIGUEIRA was at tho time tho lottor was written, tho
"Procurador" for the concern and NAGAI was also omployod therc at tho
timo.
The following information has bocn obtainod by Sourco "E"
rolative to this concorn: Ono TOMIICHI HARAGUCHI wont to Rua Nilo
Poçanha 151, Rio do Janoirc on March 12, 1937 and ronted rooms 303 and
30L4 in tho namo of tho SOCIEDADE COMERCIAL NIPO-BRASILEIRA, LTDA.
HARAGUCHI at this time was the roprosentative of tho New York City
branch of MITUSI & CIA, LTDA., also known as MITUSI BUSSAN KAISHA
LTDA. Ono of tho MITSUI cmployeos who workod undor HARAGUCHI was
RYOKICHI NAGAI.
On January 7, 1938 HARAGUCHI loft Brazil and wont to Japan. Upon
his departure, hc installod onc MASUo IliAKI, of São Paulo, who
togethor with ono TOHRU TAKATA purchascd tho capital stock of 50
contos of Brazilian Reis ( 2,50000 U. S. curroncy) which was divided
into son sharos of fivo contos cach. After a briof poriod of absenoc,
HARAGUCHI returncd to Brazil, but apparontly ontorod into businoss in
São Paulo. His businoss connoction thoro is not kmown but ho may havo
continuod his affiliation with thc firn as it is kmown to havo
formorly maintainod its hoad offico in São Paulo at Rua Dr. Falcão
Filho 56, 7º, sala 575. HARAGUCHI loft Brazil a soccnd timo aftor the
war bogan and IMAkI is allogcd to havo statod that ho wont to
-7-

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.98)
Singapore to take over the management of the Light & Power Company
there after the Japanese took Singapore. According to information
received by the informant, IliAkI has since been repatriated to Japan.
The files of Source "F" reflect that the original partners of the
firm were TOHRU TAKATA and MASUO IMAKI referred to above as persons
who took over the management of the firm after TOIfIICHI HARAGUCHI left
Brazil. As of October 29, 1942, the partners of the firm were listed
as follows:
TATUO OKI - 8 shares
YO MURAI
- 1 share
TADAHI YALLADA - 1 share
The exact date of the transfer of the shares of stock is not
known, but it appears that tho above individuals assumed control of
the company about 1940. Information concerning these individuals is
not presently available, but investigation in Rio de Janciro has
failod to disclose that they are prosently active in tho affairs of
the concern. As indicated, IMAkI has bocn ropatriated to Japan, and
it is boliovod that TAKATA has also loft the country as did HARAGUCHI.
IMAKI came to Brazil in 1937 and for about one year having come from
Japan where he is said to havo bocn an cmployec of some rank in the
Mitsui Company. Tho firm and all of tho prosont partnors aro on tho
Unitod Statos Proclaimcd List.
Source "E" obtained work records relative to the 1941 and 1942
employees of the Sociedade and the following were said to be employed:
SARAII DA SILVA CABANELLAS
FERNANDES ADAHURY
ANTONIO DA COSTA SENA
LYSETTE A. DE GOES TELLES - (daughter of ALBERTO
GOES TELLES, who is now employed by the U. S.
Rubber Development Corporation)
RYOKICHI NAGAI
AMADO AVELINO GONÇALVES
Recent inquiry reflects that none of the above listed employees
appear to be presently employed by the Sociedade except NAGAI and
TELLES who is the legal representative for the concern.
- 8 -

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.98)
The files of Source "E" further reflect that the firm was
organized to represent the New York Branch Office of the Mitusi
Company and during the time it was actively engaged in a general import
and export business, dealing principally in strategic materials main-
taining warehouses and other places of business necessary to the com-
merce of the firm.
FIGUEIRA advised Source "C" on interview, that the company has
never been large and since early 19l2 has effected little business due
to the prevailing conditions in Brazil. This is borne out by inform-
ation submitted by Source "E" who has advised that the files of the
concern now maintained in the office of TELLES, Avenida Rio Branco 143,
snow 1ittle business activity by the firn since 1941 and early 1942.
Host of the correspondence and other data observed there by the in-
formant relates to the comierce of the firm and nothing of apparent
significance was obtained. It was noted that a receipt dated December
22, 1942, signed by RYOCHICKI NAGAI (RYOKICHI NAGAI) indicated that he
had received the sum of Cr§1,000.00 - - - 50.00 dollars in United
States currency - in payment of his salary 1or December, 1942.
There was also observed a receipt signed by ARy P. AllDRADE FIGUEIRA,
dated October 8, 1942 reflecting that he had received Cr§100.00 -
§5.00 dollars in U. S. currency - from the SoCIEDADE in payment of the
rental on the office located at Avenida Rio Branco, 14:3, 4º. It
appears that FIGUEIRA owns the prenises or may be sub-letting the
office to TELLES, who also maintains a law office there.
The files of Source "F" reflect that the SOCIEDADE was obtaining
wolfram ore, produced at the mines at Itupeva, Brazil belonging to the
SOCIEDADE IIHAl DAJARA DE MINERAÇAO LTDA., which Concern is directed
by OSVALDO SALLES SAMPAIC. The files located in TELLES! office showed
that quite a bit of correspondence had passed between the two enter-
prises and several shipments of wolfran ore to Osaka, Japan via
Japanese vessels were recordec thorein.
As previously indicated, the main office for the sOCIEDADE
COMERCIAL NIPO-BRASILEIRA LTDA., was located for a time at Rua Dr.
Falcão Filho 56, 7º, sala 575, was later moved to Rua Nilo Peçanha
151, salas 303 and 304, and at present is located at Avenida Rio
Branco 143. The files of Source "F" indicate, however, that the firm
is still represented in São Paulo by a representative of the firm
ALGODEIRA Do sUL, dealers in cotton and allegedly a subsidiary of the
CIA, 3RATAC, which in turn is said to be an affiliate of the MITUSI
interests. Source "G" has advised that the ALGODEIRA DO SUL LTDA.,
is identical with TOYO LNKA KAISHA, LTDA., a branch of the SOUTILERN
COTTON COLMPANY, alsO knOVM aS the SOUTH AMERICAN COTTON COLPANY.
LINCOLN DE CARVALHO MACLDO is the Brazilian interventor of ALGODEIRA
SO SUL and SEIJIRO SHIILA and GORO IURATA are associate managers.
-9-

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.98)
It has been established that RYOKICHI NAGAI has access to Caixa
Postal 1269, as he was observed to have obtained correspondence from
this box. Source "E" ascertained that this post office box was
registered in the name of TOMIICIII HAiAGUCHI, referred to above, from
April 6, 1937 to April 10, 1943. on the 1atter date, the box was
transferred from HARAGUCHI to the SOCIEDADE COMERCIAL NIPO-BRASILEIRA.
LTDA, Avenida Rio Branco 143, and ALDERTO GOES TELLES was listed as
the person who guarantees payment of the rental of the box. It appears
that NAGAI, by virtue of his employment with the SOCIEDADE has access
to this box. In connection with this inquiry the informant learned
that NAGAI was formerly employed by tho firmBRATAC LTDA., and it also
appears that HARAGUCHI may have boon also affiliated with this concern
during his residence in Brazil. It should be observod that at the
timo tho post box was transferred to the SOCIEDADE, HARAGUCHI was
already out of Brazil.
Source "B" indicated that Caixa Postal was listed in the Rio
"Red Book" in the name of one JOSE MORAES CASTRO. In view of the
above information, however, it appears that CASTRo must have been the
holder of this box prior to 1937 and has no connection with the same
at the present time.
Source "B" also indicated that NAG I on one occasion was observed
to have removed from the box the newspaper JORNAL DO COMERCIO, account
number B. 34810, which is the number of the SOCIEDADE COIERCIAL NIPO-
BRASILEIRA, LTDA. Source "E" has loarned that the Sociodade has sub-
scribed to this paper fron January, 19l:o until the present time.
A coverage on the box by Source "E" has been relatively unpro-
ductive. Vory little correspondenco has been directod to this addrcss
in recent wecks. About tho only type of correspondence observod has
boen businoss or advortising circulars, newspapers and magazines, but
one lettor addrossed to R. NAGAI boaring tho roturn addross of
TIKARA TANAAMI, São Paulo, Brazil has bocn intorceptod. The contents
of this communication wili bo sot forth below. It has also boon
obsorvod that TOMIICHI HARAGUCHI continues to have circulars and
pamphlets dirocted to him at this box. Nothing of further significance
has beon noted through this typo of covorage.
ALBERTO CAMPOS DE GOES TELLES:
Source "E" has advised that the subject is a Brazilian, the son
of ALBERTO JULIO DE GOES TELLES and ANTONIO CAMPOS DE GOES TELLES. HO
is married to ELIVIRA AZEVEDO, also Brazilian and there are two
daughters in the family, one being LYZETTE AZEVEDO and another whose
name is unknown at the present time.
TELLES was born in the State of Pernambuco and lived there for a
number of years. About 1924, he was the Promotor Publico do Municipio
de Belmonte, Pernambuco. He moved to Rio several years ago and
- 10 -

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.98)
continued to practice law here, maintaining an office at Avenida Rio
Branco 143, 4º. He continues to reside at Rua Toneleiros 167.
The daughter, LYZETTE, is presently employed by the United States
Rubber Development Corporation, Room ll2l, Brasileiro Building, Rio,
having entered on duty as a stenographer on February 1, 1943 at a
salary of Cr§2,000.00 per month - (§100.00 in U.S. currency) It has
been ascertained that she is doing work of a non-confidential capacity
and will not be placed in such a confidential position by Rubber
Development authorities.
In her application for a position, she gave her date of birth as
February 22, 1924 at Belmonte, Pernambuco. She is singlo and resides
vith hor parents. She has receivod an education equivalent to grammar
and high school, speaks and takes dictation in Portuguose to English
and also speaks French.
Sho gave her fromer employers as follows:
DR. ALBERTO GOES TELLES, father, - stenographer, two years
SOCIEDADE COMERCIAL NIPO-BRASILEIRA, LTDA, (1mPOrt & eXPOrt),
stenographer and correspondent two years.
ESTAÇAS FRANKI LTDA., (Piles & Fonciations), stenographer, one
month COMPANHIA GOODYEAR DO BiASIL (Tires, tubes, etc) stenogra-
pher, four months. (Was omployed at the time accepted position
with U. S. Rubber Development.)
She gave as references the following:
CLIFFORD ROWLAND LLOYD, Cia. Goodyeur do Brasil, Avenida
Rodrigues Alves 179, Te1. 42-5090.
DR. BENJAMIN MORAES, Director of Ginasio Copacabana, Rua Oto
Simon 89, Tel. 27-6378.
OSCAR RUDGE, owner of CASA OSCAR RUDGE, Rua Silva Jardim 16,
Tel. 42-1051. (It wil1 be noted below that RUDGE is in froquent
contact with DR. TELLES.)
M. J. SILVA ANACHORETA, Departamento de Cambio, Banco do Brasil.
Source "H" who is acquainted with LYZETTE and has been out with
her socially has furnished tho following information: During a con-
versation on one occasion with LYZETTE, the Japanese worc discussed
and she remarked that she thought tho Japanese to bo wonderful and
admirablo people. She stated that sho had worked for tho Mitsui
Company in Rio (meaning thG SOCIEDADE COIERCIAL NIPO-BRASILEIRA, LTDA)
for over a year and had also workod in tho Japanesc Embassy in Rio for
a short time. Sho commented that she had boen in closo contact with
- 11 -

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.98)
Japanese on both a social and business basis and considers many of
them as close friends. It was also observed that the Japanese seemed
to think very well of her and while employed by the above mentioned
firm, she handled the personal affairs of a number of Japanese. She
indicated that whenever Japanese entered the country, it was her
province to arrange their papers, obtain their "carteiras" and to do
anything else that might be holpful to thom. She furthor admitted
that at the time diplomatic relations were broken with Japan, she as-
sisted in arranging for the comfortable departure of the diplomats on
the SS GRIPSHOLM. Prior to the time that the Japanese left they gave
her Cr§10,000.00 (§500.00) as a bonus for efforts in thoir bohalf.
She also advised that she still has a number of Japanose friends in
Rio.
Source "H" has advised that LYZETTE appoarci to bo sympathetic
toward both the Japanese and Gcrmans, and on ono occasion during a
discussion of the war, stated "Why should you wish to kill tho
Germans and Japs, what havo they over done to you." During a sub-
sequont discussion sho stated at longth that she hates the Jows.
Source "H" furnishod the following doscription of LYZETTE:
AgC
19, born Fubruary 22, 1924 at Belmonto,
Pornaabuco.
Hoight
513"
Weight
115
Build
Slim
Hair
Black
Eyos
Vory dark
Comploxion
Dark
Tocth
Good
Charactcristics Wears no makoup, very intolligont.
Source "H" has furthor adviscd that ho met both Mr. and Mrs.
TELLES through tho daughter, LYZETTE. The moeting, howover, was vory
perfunctory and hc was affordcd no opportunity to convorse with thom.
Tho following doscription of TELLES was obtainod on this occasion:
Ago
Approximatoly 55
Hoight
516"
Woight
140
Build
siim
Hair
Whito with black patchos, vory curly
Comploxion
Vory dark, almost a mulatto
Foaturos
Vory sharp, almost haggard
Eyos
Dark brown
Peculiaritios
Has a grim, haggard appoaranco, with sharp
foaturcs.
-12-

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.98)
Source "B" advised that TELLES on June 1, 1943 met an unidentified
Japanese on the corner of Rua Ouvidor and Rua Gonçalves Dias and gave
him a piece of paper to read. The Japanese was observed to have gone
to Avenida Passos 109, where he stopped to speak to another Japanese
Who has a novelty store at that address. He gave the piece of paper
Which he had previously showm to TELLEs to the Japanese and then
proceeded to Rua Barão de Bom Retiro 773. Investigation by Source "E"
has disclosed that one HONG HAN YREN, a Chineso, is thc owner of a
novelty shop at this address and is probably the person contactod by
tho unidentified Japanesc. Ho is roported to bo a loyal Chinese and
is said to bo vory pro-Alliod in sympathy.
The informant also learncd that one SRUIEL NAHOU BAGDADI, a
Syrian, is prosontly rosiding at Rua Barão de Bom Retiro 773. Ho has
occupied this address sincc August, 1942  two Japanese brothors,
MARCELO and CHILO SHIBRUJA having formorly rusidod thoro. BAGDADI, is
a nativo of Boyrout, Syria and is a stroct peddler by occupation.
Nothing of a dorogatory naturo is knovm concerning him.
With further regard to the two Japuneso who rosidod at the above
address, it hes been learned by the informant that they now reside to-
gether at Rua Leopoldina 37, casa 1l. Both are employed as tea sales-
men by the firm ZAKI HIRATo & CIA, Rua do Rosario 69. Information
concerning KANI SHIRATo, partner in this firm is set forth below.
MARCELO SHIBRUJA is the fianc& of a Brazilian girl named MARIA
 who resides at Rua Barão do Bom Retiro 773, casa 6. Inas-
much as he is known to call at this address frequently, it appears
that he may have been the individual that TELLES contacted on the
corner of Rua Ouvidor and Rua Gonçalves Dias.
Source "B" has also advised that TELLES was at one time in contact
with DR. ALBERTO DE PAULA RODRIGUES, a reported Integralista and a
friend of DANIEL VIVAQUA and PACiECO DE ANDRADE, who have also been
reported as Integralista agitators.
Informant "E" has advised that PACHECO DE ANDRADE is probably
identical with EDUARDO PACHECO DE ANDRADE, an ex-official of the Civil
Police in Rio de Janeiro, who worked in the General Directory of
Communications and Statistics.
PACHECo DE ANDRADE was denounce: as an Integralist in May of 1938
to the Rio Police. Since that time he has been involved with the
police on a number of occasions. In the administration of Chief of
Police FELINTo MULLER, he was arrosted twe or three times by order of
President VARGAS.
-13 -

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.98)
He was reported as one of the leaders in an attempted uprising by
soldiers of the Brazilian Army garrisonod at Cruz Alta, Rio Grande do
Sul, was arrested but was soon released. He was jailed in Rio de
Janeiro, charged with having worked as a Nazi espionage agent in con-
nection with the clandestine radio transmitter station LFS, run by
FRANK WALTER JORDAN and others in connection with the German Inteili-
gence activities in Brazil.
In the opinion of the informant, PACHECO DE ANDRADE is an agent
of President VARGAs, paid to work in an undercover capacity among sub-
versive elements in Brazil. Ho has been involved in a number of
situations where the police have compiled sufficient ovidenco against
him, yet at the end of two or three months he is always ordered re-
leased.
With regard to Dr. ALBERTO DE PAULA RODRIGUES, it has boen learnod
that he is presently the inspector de Alimentação da Profeitura, which
has offices at Avenida Graça Aranha 81, Rio do Janoiro. Ho has
recently boon serving as director of this department in the absence of
that official. Ho is doscribed as an old and insolent porson and for
this reason he is not liked by a large majority of the employees of his
department. It is reported that he was an Integralista at the time
that the party existed legally in Brazil, but since the organization
was "outlawed" by the governnent, he has not interested himself in
political matters in recent years.
Source "B" reporteu that on June 15, TELLES left his office with
an unidentified individual and the two proceeded to the corner of
Rua de Assemblia, where they separated. The unidentified subject was
observed to have entered a coffee shop located at Rua Sonador Dantas
113 and is reported to be a diamond cutter for a firm which has offices
at this address. Investigation by Informant "E" has disclosed that
tho SOCIEDADE INTERCAMBIO MERCANTILD ARGENTINO-BRASILEIRO, has offices
in this building and is a firm which cuts, imports, and exports
precious stones, somi-precious stones and crystal. Exportation of
crystal is believed to be the principal business of this firm.
Partners of this firm aro RUDOLPIE PICARD and RENE WEIL, both
French nationals. WEIL is in Buenos Aires, Argentina most of the time
and one LEOPOLDO GOETSHEL reprosonts him in the firm during his
absence. GOETSHEL lives at Praia do Flamengo 194, Rio de Janeiro.
Although not definitely establishod, it is bolieved that TELLES con-
tactod one of tho partners of the firm. Nothing of a derogatory naturo
is kmown concerning thom.
TELLES has becn under periodic but not continuous surveillance
during rocont weeks but Informant "I" has advised that nothing of
apparent significanco has boon dovolopod. It has boon notud that
RYOKICHI NAGAI continuos to call at TELLES' offico almost daily
-14-

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.99)
presumably in connection with his work for the SOCIEDADE COMERCIAL
NIPO-BRASILEIRA, LTDA.
TELLES activity appears to be normal and the details of the
surveillances are not being set forth in the instant report but the
investigator's notes are being made a part of the Rio file in this
case.
The following information has been obtained, however, through an
observation of the subject. TELLES is known to have gone to Rua da
Carioca 48, which was found to be X-Ray Institute of DR. NELSON
MIRANDA. He has contacted KANJI SHIRATO on several occasions and it
has been observed that TELLES never calls at SHIRATO'S office nor does
SHIRATO call at TELLES' office. They invariably meet in the city and
converse for a few minutes at a time. The connection between SHIRATo
and TELLES has not been established.
In connection with the observation of TELLES and NAGAI'S
activitiy, it has been noted that NAGAI has made frequent calls at
the Yokohama Specie Bank as well as the Banco Do Brasil and has been
observed to obtain money from the Yokohama Spccie Bank. A check of
the surveillance notes on filo in tho Rio Office has disclosed that on
June 25th, NAGAI callcd at thc Yokohama Specio Bank and obtained what
appeared to be a sizeablo amount of money and later roturned to the
office of TELLES. A short timc lattor, TELLES was observed to havo
gone about town paying certain bills. It is suggosted that both
TELLES and NAGAI havo in the past, received certain payments through
the Yokohama Spocie Bank.
One TAKOZO HIROTA, about whom information is set forth below, has
been observed to contact TELLES on a number of occasions. HIROTA
usually goes to the office of TELLES and remains for only a short
time. It has been established through investigation that HIRoTA is
presently residing at Rua Carvalho Monteiro 34.
TELLES is known to have made a number of calls at the firm of
OSCAR RUDGE, located at Silva Jardim 16, Rio. This firm deals in
stationery and office supplies and it appears that TELLES has handled
some legal business for OSCAR RUDGE. Attention should also be
directed to the fact that LYZETTE TELLES gave the name of OSCAR RUDGE
as a reference at the time she applied for a position with the Rubber
Development Corporation.
TELLES is also lmown to have been in contact with one PEDRO
FRANCA who maintains an office at Rua l: de Março 10l, 2nd floor, room
4. The informants have advised, FRAnCA is a"aespachante"and that he
also handles some legal matters. It has been learned that in July,
he was doing some work for TELI,ES and spent some time in TELLES' office
1. -15-

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.99)
Nothing of a derogatory nature is kmown concerning this individual.
TELLES is also known to have been contacted by one WALTER DOTE
who is known to Informant "I" and nothing of a subversive or derogatory
nature is known concerning this individual.
KANJI SHIRATO:
Investigation was instituted concerning this subject after
information was furnished by Source "B" indicating that he has been
in COntact with RYOKICHI NAGAI, DR. ALBERTO GOES TELLES and TSUNEO
HOliA. SHIRATO continues to reside at Praia Botafoga 22, Apt. 402 and
continues to maintain his business at Rua do Rosario 69.
As indicated by Source "B", the name of SHIRATO'S firm is the
ZAKI, SHIRATO & CIA, a general import and export firm which deals
principally in strategic materials and prior to severance of diplo-
matic rclations botween Brazil and Japan, was a hoavy shipper to
Japan. The firm, togother with all of the partners, are on the U. S.
Proclaimed List and the business of the firm hes been materially cur-
tailed during the past year and a half.
The firm was founded by two partners, KANJI SHIRATO and JOSE
YONEGI ZAKI, in March of 1940. It has been recently ascertained by
Source "I" that ZAkI has loft the firm, apparently having sold his
share of the businese to SilIRATo.
On August 7, 1943, SEHI SATOH called at SHIRATO'S office
located at Rua Rosario 69, and the two conferred for some time. It
has been ascertained that SATOH is a bookkeeper in the firm of
ANTONIO REGESE, Rua do Mercado 11. Around 10:30 am on this date,
ZAKI arrived and he and SHIRATO later proceeded to a cafe-bar.
SliIRATo was overheard to tell ZAkI that he should not have left the
firn. ZAKI called SHIRATO'S attention to the fact that although he
had left the firm approximately scven months prior to that time, he
had still not received his share of the capital and inquired as to the
reasons why tho auditing of the firm's books was taking so long.
SlHIRaTo repliod that evorything would be completed within a short time.
ZAKI also stated that he felt that SHIRATO should ceasc holding
"meetings" in his office.
It has beon ascertained that ZAKI is a Brazilian, born December
2. 1914 in Braz1l of Japanese parents. Since breaking of the partner-
ship with SHIRATo, he has operated a trucking company which runs
between Minas Gorais and the Fedoral District. The offices of the
firm are located at Rua Senador Pompeu 30 and ZAkI presently resides
at Avenida 7 de Setombro 318, apt. 202.
-16 -

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.99)
Source "B" advised that the following employees of SHIRATO are
registered in the Brazilian Ministry of Work:
MIGUEL DIAS, a Brazilian born October 23, 1923.
NOEMIA LOPES, a Brazilan born July 27, 1913.
JOSHIO MASUDA, a Japanese born October 10, 1919.
GILBERTO RAMALHO CAMPOS, of unknown nationality, born in 1912.
LEA VIEIRA DO CARMO, of unknown nationality, born in 1912.
This source also advised that KENJI TAMIJA is a partner in the
firm. Source "I" has ascertained that the following employees are
presently employed by SHIRATo. No record of these persons has been
ound in the Registry of the Ministry of Work.
HIROSABURO SHIRATO, manager of the firm and son of KANJI
SHIRATO, presently residing at Rua
Leopoldina 37, casa 13.
TATSU YVATA - salesman, residing at Rua Benjamin Constant 1li3.
KISABURO MIYAMORE - salosman, rosiding at Rua Ipuera 10,
Estagão de Acari.
YOSHIO MASUDA - salesman, residing at Rua Maria Deolinda 6.
MINORO MASUDA - salesman, rosiding et Rua Maria Deolinda 6.
SHIRO SHIBUYA - salesman, residing at Rua Leopoldina 37, casa 11.
This individual has been previous y referred to
in the report as CHILO sHIBRUYA and his trother
MARCLO, who is also employed by the firm as a
salesman.
EITARO NARA - employed in the store, resides at Rua Santa
Christina 41.
MASATOSHI KITSUTA - employed in the store and resides with the
son of SHIRaTo at Rua Leopoldina 37, casa 13.
SHIRATO's activities have been observed from time to time and it
has been noted that a number of unidentified Japanese have called at
his office on Rua do Rosario 69. It has been established that
SHIRATO'is acquainted with one JOAQUIM HIGASHI about whom informetion
is set forth below. SEHI SAToh, mentioned above, has also been in
frequent contact with SHIRATO. KINROKU sUZUKI who formerly resided
at Ladeira da Gloria 12, 7th floor, apt. 47, who was recently re-
patriated on the SS Gripsholm, appeared to be quite friendly with
SHIRATO and frequently contacted this subject. SUZUKI was also quite
-17-

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.98)
friendly with RYOKICHI NAGAI and additional information relative to
his activity in Rio is being set forth below.
The following 1s a description of SHIRaTO obtained from Informant
through observation:
NAME -
KANJI SHIRATO
AGE -
Approximately 48
HE IGHT -
One meter, sixty tall
WEIGHT -
68 to 70 kilos
BUILD -
Heavy
HAIR -
Black
EYES -
Very dark
APPEARANCE - No visable marks or scars, wears glasses: presents
a good appearance but typical Japapese.
ARITAL STATUS - Married.
TAKOZO HIROTA, alias Paulo:
HIROTA formerly reside at Andrade Pertonce l, Fio and is pre-
sently residing at Rua Carvalho Liontc iro 34. He is ar artist by
vocation (Desenhista). and hs cio sele is dram rom various
restaurants, bars and caes. He re  arly calis t su planes and
makes sketches of persons. charging 1 ve cruzeiros  25 cents in U.
S. currency - for each pict,uro made. Ho is not known to have other
employment.
Observation of HIROTA'S activities disclosed that his work does
not appear to keep him well occupied anu as a. consequenct he travels
throughout the city. He has been observed to go to the Rio docks and
observe the ships anchored in the harbor. Informants have reported
that on July 1th, he was observed in the Prac& 15 de Hovembi, where
he remained for some time, apparently watching th ships of a convoy
which at the time were anchored in the harbor. He was  ater joinod
by two unidentified individuals and the three apparently conversed
concerning the convoy. After loaving the docks, HIROTA walked to
TELLES' office and found TELLES waiting in the doorway, The two con-
versed for a few minutes and HIRoTA proceeded to tho Edificio de
Lyceu de Artos e Oficio, located on the Avenida Rio Branco and there
met two men, one of whom was a sailor. They convorsed for a short
timo and HIROTA returned to his home.
HIROTA has also been observod to contact an individual at the
Edificio Belmar, located at Avenida Saldanha 71. He has called at
the residenco of DR. MILTON FERNAtDES, Rua Fernando Mondes 45,
2nd floor, apt. 201, and also at tho rosidence of JORGE CAFFIOLI, who
lives at Av. Atlantica 598, apt. 21, wi th his mistress, MARIA D0 CARMO
COSTA LIMA. It has beon ascertained that DR. MILTON FERNANDES 1s a
- 18-

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.99)
is a medical doctor with offices at Rua Araujo Porto Alegre 70,
7th floor, room 714 and 715. He shares this office with his partner,
DR. FRANKLIN BORGES VERAS and the two maintain an X-ray laboratory at
this address. JORGE CAFFIOLI is said to be a worthless individual
who is supported by his mistress. Nothing, however, of a subversive
nature is known concening these individuals. HIROTA also has been
observed to enter the offices of the HACHIYA ANDRADE & CO, located
at Rua Teofilo Ottoni 85.
RYOKICHI NAGAI:
This subject continucs to reside at Rua Hugo Bezera 2l1, Meyer,
which is a suburb of Rio.
It has beon definitely ascortained that he is presently employed
by the firm Sociedade Comercial Nipo-Brasileira, Ltda., Avenida Rio
Branco 143, 4th floor, which as previously indicated, is the office
of DR. ALBERTO GOES TELLES. NAGAI'S duties in connection with his
employment is unknown and observation has disclosed that he spends
very little time in the office. Ho usually calls there almost daily,
staying only a short timo and it does not appear he is very occupied
with his omployment due to the inactivity on the part of the firm at
tho present timo.
As previously indicated in this report, NaGAI is believed to
receive a salary of approximately one thousand cruzeiros per month -
fifty dollars in U. S. currency - and it is conceivable that this
salary is paid through the Yokohama Specie Bank of Rio de Janeiro in-
asmuch as he has been observed to call at the bank to receive payments
of money. Informant "E" has advised, however, that on one occasion a
receipt indicating that NAGAI had receivod the payment for his salary
for the month of December, 1942 from the Sociedade Comercial Nipo-
Brasileira. Although NAGAI's activities would seem to indicate that
ho does not have a position of trust in connection with his employment
by the Sociedade Comercial Nipo-Brasileira, attention should be
directed to the fact that the members of the Nambei Trading Company
in Buenos Aires, apparently entrusted to him certain responsibilities
in connection with the handling of the affairs of the concern referred
to in the FIGUEIRA letter as the "NICI-HAKU COMPANY".
Source "B" indicated that NAGAI'was believed to have been seen in
the company of KITAGAWA TETSURO on June 23rd in Rio de Janeiro. This
source also advised that on June 15, 1943, ARY P. ANDRADE FIGUEIRA,
together with ERMANO DOS ANJOS proceeded from Rio by car to Campo-Grande
just outside of Rio and enterod a houso locatod at Estrada do Monteiro
634. Informant "I" stated that KITAGAiVA TETSURO formerly lived with
his wife and two sons. He was said to have moved, however, on June
17th, and his present whoroabouts aro unknown. He has not been
identified as boing in contact with NAGAI in recent weoks. An attompt
-19 -

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.98)
was made by Source "H" to ascertain the present whereabouts of this
subject and in this connection he made inquiry of the occupants of the
house located at Estrado de Monteiro 634, Campo-Grande, and was
advised that TETSURo'S present address is unknown. Source "B" also
advised that NAGAI contacted one OKIOSKIO SHIOCKWA at Avenida Princeza
Izabol 62, casa 17. SHIOCKWA resides with & Swiss, HANS KARL STUCHI,
and is presently employed as a waiter in the Copacabana Palace Hotel,
where he works on the first floor and has been employed there for a
number of years. STuChI is also said to be employod at one time at
the hotel as a waiter but was discharged after he was discovered to
have committed a robbery.
Source "I" has advised that after STUCHI was dismissed by the
Copacabana Palace Hotol, he associated himself with others in the
management of a bar located at Avonida Ataulfo de Paiva, 12l40-B, which
is known as Caf& o Bar Cisne. It was lorned that he is no longor
connected with tho firm due to the fact that ho had embozzled sevon
thousand fivo hundred cruzeiros. While a partner in tho cafe and
bar CI3NE, STUCHI was said to roccive many visits from many Gormans
and Japaneso. He is known to have boon friendly with a numbor of
Gurmans who are presently intornod by Brazilian authorities.
STUCHI appoars to bo unomployed at tho presont time and according
to Informant I", is attompting to obtain a job in tho Cafe Moka,
located at Rua Gustavo Sampaio 2ll. Ho is said to bo a vory heavy
drinkor and sponds most of his time in bars and street cafes. He is
also suid to have beon observed on the Praca liaua, wnich is located
near the Rio de Janeiro harbor. Ho has been in contact an unidentified
German who is a violinist and resides at Rua Ministro Viveiro de
Castro 82. He is also known to have been in contact vith one ARThUR
BURGER, who is said to be the chiof of the "Sala de Jogo" of the
Jockey Club in Rio de Janeiro. This individual resides at the Hotel
Britania, located at Avenida Copacabana 66l. A police ficha containing
the fingerprints of STUCHI has been obtained by Informant "E" and has
been made a part of the Rio file on this case.
NAGAI has been under periodic observation in recent weeks and
names of individuals and the numbers of his contacts have been
ascertained. He is in almost daily contact with DR. ALBERTo GOES
TELLES in connection with his employrient by the SOCIEDADE COMERCIAL
NIPO-BRASILEIRA.
It has also been established that he is in frequent contact with
one KANJI SHIRATO referred to above as well as TSUNEO NOMA who was
recently reparated on the SS Gripsholm. Although it appears that
NAGAI is acquainted with SUETAKA HAYAO, tho surveillance has failed
to disclose that the two have boen in contact. It has also been
established that NAGAI has boen in contact with JORGE HIGASHI, referred
to above and KINROKU SUZUKI, rocontly ropatriated on the SS
Gripsholm has been obsorved to call at the home of NAGAI.
- 20 -

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.98)
Source "B" has advised that NAGAI is also acquainted with
KUMEKICHI AOKI, also known as TOGO, and recent observation of NAGAI
has disclosed that the two continue to maintain contact.
NAGAI is known to call at the Banco do Brasil and the Yokohama
pecie Bank quite often and his visits there are said to have been in
connection with the affairs of the Sociedade Comercial Nipo-Brasileira.
The observation of NAGAI'S activities has been relatively unpro-
Cuctive and nothing of any apparent significance has been developed
through this type of investigation.
On Septomber 13th, however, while NAGAI was under observation,
it was learned that an employee of ARY FIGUEIRA arrivod at DR. TELLES:
office and remained there approximately for ten minutes. The nature
of his business there was not established but he apparontly contacted
both NAGAI and TELLES.
Source "B" indicated that NAGAI has access to Caixa Postal 1269,
which is indicated above, as listod in the name of tho Sociedade
Comercial-Nipo Brasiloira. The coverago on the box has been main-
tained by Informant "E" who has advisec that very little correspon-
dence is received in the box in recent wecks. lost of the commmicatiors
appear to be of a comnerciel nature, such as advertising circulars,
news papers, magazines, otc. Informant "E" obtained one letter from
the box, however, which was addresed to NAGAI and bore the return
address of T. TANNAI, Caixa Postal 1269, São Paulo. The letter, which
was handwritten in Portuguese under date of August 1, 1943, was
signed TIKARA TANAAliI. The letterhead contained the following:
"ORIENTADOR CONTABIL (PERITOS EM CONTABILIDADE E ASSUNTOS FISCAIS,
Praça João Mendes 154, 4º, Sala 45, Tel. 3-1325".
11
São Paulo, August 1, 1943
Iir. R. Nagai
Rio de Janeiro.
steemed Friend and Brother in Christ:
I am writing this to you wishing health and happiness to all.
Today is Sunday, the day of the Lord, and I went to Church early
vith the people from the House. Uncle SHIMEKITI went to Marilia
yesterday and to the District of Paulista-Noroeste. Mr. TAMURA from
Santos is still with us and is going to Mogi during the first part of
the week. For the time being nothing is known concerning their
return to their homos. For this roason Brother NAKAJIMA is also
staying in the home of IzUmI. The number of visitors who come to
-21 -

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.98)
São Paulo on Sundays, is large.
I remembered to write today, the comnemoration of the centenary
of the first Brazilian stamp. Thus, observe on the cancellation stamp
(x) of this letter a special seal.(xx)
Thanks to the Good Lord, wo are all well. The brother who was
resting, can now go outside a little without feeling tired. He un-
doubtedly needs some time to strengthen himself.
iother and Father send regards. I hope that your little girls
cre strong and wish much happiness for everyone.
Regards from
TIKARA TANAAMI"
TRANSLATOR'S NOTE:
(x) The Portuguese word "Carimbo" signifies an "impression
seal", "rubber stamp" or some similar "stamp" for placing
a mark or impression on somothing. It does not mean
"postage stamp". The only "stamp" or "scal" of this sort
appoaring on this letter is tho "cancollation mark" on the
envelope.
(xx) The Portugueso word usod appears to bo "sinete" meaning
"seal".
Source "A" has advised that a photographic copy of the envelope
and the letter was checked against the files of Source "A" without
effecting an identification. Source "A" pointed out, however, that
the writer of the letter in the first paragraph may have been trying
to inform NAGAI of the whereabouts of SHIMEKITI, TAMURA, NAKAJIMA and
IzUmI. It was suggested that these may be actual names or code names.
It appears that the places referred to, namely, Marilia, District of
Paulista-Noroeste and Mogiare sections of São Paulo. It was pointed
out that the sentence "For tho time being nothing is known concerning
their return to their homes." may be a doublo meaning for "For the
time being not hing is known concerning their roturn to Japan". In-
asmuch as the list of Brazilian ropatriatos was at that time being
made up, the writor of the lettor may have beon roferring to indi-
viduals who would embark on tho SS Gripsholm at Rio do Janeiro.
Source "A" also pointed out that the reference in the second
paragraph to the stamp seems to be suspicious. It was not possible
to examine the postage stamp and seal on this letter, inasmuch as
it was impossible under the circumstances to retain the letter for any
length of time. Source "A" suggested that this paragraph may have been
- 22-

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.98)
designed to attract the addressous attcntion to tho stamp which by
previous agroomont, might roprosont a code indicator.
Also in tho socond paragraph, tho writer stated "I remombered to
writo today in commcmoration of the contonary of tho first Brazilian
t ip. Thus, obsorve on tho canccllation stamp of this lotter a
cial scal." It was ascortainod that the stamp on tho lettor was
ctually an ordinary ono and not of the commomorativo issuo. It was
determinod, howcver, that a now stemp was at that timo boing printod
in Brazil in commomoration of tho lo0th Annivursary of tho First
Postago Stamp in Brazil which was known as "OLHo DE BOI". It was
notod by Sourco "A" that the writor of tho lotter in tho second
paragraph spocifically roforrcd to the canccllation stamp and not to
the postage stamp. It ppoars that a cancollation stamp may havo
actually bocn a spocial soal.
Source "A" also obsorved that the rofurunce in tho third para-
graph "The brother who was resting" may refer to someone who was
under surveillance. If the paragraph is interpreted as follows:
"Thanks to the Lord we are ail well, the brother who is resting
(under surveillance) can now go outside without feeling tired (appre-
hensive) . He undoubtedly needs some time to strengthen himself."
(Establish himself again.)
KUMEKICHI AOKI, ALIAS TOGO
Investigation was instituted concerning this subject after it was
established that he was in contact with RYOKICHI NAGAI and TSUNEO
NOMA. It was also reported by Source "B" that AOKI was constantly
vis1ting MANOELINO ALVES SEIXAS, Rua da Gloria 82, apt B-4 and DONA
ARIA FERNANDES PEREIRA who also resides at that address in apartment
B-2. An investigation by Infermant "I" disclosed that AOKI's contacts
with persons residing at Rua da Gloria 82 was for the purpose of
teaching English to the duaghters of DONA MARIA FERNANDES PEREIRA and
MANOELIÑO ALVES SEIKAS.
It was also indicated by Source "B" that AOKI resides at Rua da
Lapa 90, together with his employeers who ere the owners of CHA
IPIRANGA located at Rua da Gloria 6. AOKI is employed as a tea sales-
man by this firm and a surveillance of his movements has disclosed that
he spends the greater portion of each day selling tea, calling at
restaurants, cafes and houses. AOkI continues to call at Rua da
Gloria 82 and of ten has dinner in the apartment of DONA MARIA
FERNANDS PEREIRA. He has been in contact with a number of unidenti-
fied Japanese in recent weeks as well as TSUNEO NOMA, pri or to the time
he was repatriated on the SS Gripsholm. Hè is knowm to have called at
the home of RYOKICHI NAGAI.
- 23-

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.99)
Although it has not been established that AOkI has been in con-
tact with one MOICHIRO ADASHI who maintains a produce firm in the
Municipal Market of the City of Rio at numbers 38 and 40 in connection
with the obser vation of AOkI'S activities, it was learned that an
individual left Rua da Lapa 90, the residence of AOKI, and proceeded
to ADASHI'S firm where he conversed with ADASHI and other Japanese
there. Information concerning ADAshI's activities and contacts is
being set forth in detail below.
During the period that AOkI was under observation, his activi-
ties appeared to be normal and as indicated, most of his time was
spent in attempting to sell tea. It was observed, however, that a
number of Japanese called at Rua da Lapa 90, one of whom has been
identified as NELSON TIARA, who according to Informants is also known
as SHUKI HARA. He is presently residing at Avenida Gons Freire 104
and is employed in the 4º Enfermaria Servico de Oto-Rino. This
Japanese is also known to have been in contact with KINROKU SUZUKI.
TIARA is said to have friends who are connected with the local police
and on one occasion was observed in the company of two polico
investigators.
MANOELINO ALVES SEIXAS:
Informant "I" advised that SEIXAS was formerly a socond mate on
the German ship WINDHUCK and was later transferred to the SS Santos,
a ship owned by the LLOYD-BRASILEIRO LINES. SEIXAS has not been to
sea for approximately two years, now being employed in tho Purchasing
Section of the Rio officc of the LLOYD-BRASILEIRO SHIPPING COMPANY.
It has been stated that he was removed from sea duty due to his
known pro-Axis sympathies. Observation of SEIXAS' activities has
failed to disclose any evidence indicating that he is engaged in
espionage or related activities and his actions aside from his con-
tacts with AOkI do not appear to be suspicious. As indicated by
Source "B", he is married to LLNY CA ARGO SEIXAS, a Brazilian, who is
employed in the Federal Supreme Court in Rio. The two reside together
at Rua da Gloria 82, Apt. B-4. Informant "I" advised, however, that
an unidentified French woman, who is married to a Brazilian Merchant
Marine Officer, frequently visits SEIXis' apartment and the two
apparently are having an amorous affair. The janitor of the building
located at Rua da Gloria 82, has advised that on one occasion that
AOKI was observed by the unidentified French woman while in the
company of SEIXAS. SEIXAS refused to admit that he was acquainted
with AoKI, and attempted to ignore the latter when he entered the
building.
It has been ascertained that SIXAS has been in contact with one
Dr. NORIVAL PADRENOSSO, located at Rua Anchieta 21. He is a doctor
for the CERAMICA DOM PEDRO II, and nothing of a derogatory nature is
known concerning him. It was observed by the Informants, however,
-24-

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.98)
While attempting to identify him as a contact of SEIXAS that he
appeared to be very "tail shy". He was under observation only a
short time, however, and made no suspicious contacts.
SEIXAS has also been seen quite often in the company of another
cmployee of LLOYD BRASILEIRA LINES who has been identified as
ALFRLDO ELIAS DE MORAES who is married to a German and resides at Rua
Araujo leitão 736. He is reported to be Germanophile. Nothing fur-
ther is lmown concerning his activity at this time.
FRANCISCO HIDEMI NAKANO:
In connection with the investigation of KUEKICHI AOKI as out-
lined above, it was indicated that persons who called at Rua da Lapa
90 had also been observed to contact MOICHIRo ADASHI whose activity
appears to be suspicious. It was ascertuined that NAKANo resides at
Rua do Catete 247, casa 12 and has been in contact with ADAsHI and
is believed to be friendly with KU EKICIII AOKI. NAKANO, on one
occasion, while in contact with ADaslI was accompanied by a Brazilian
girl who has since been identified as CONCEICÃo COSTA, who: resides
at Rua Pedro Americo 32.
Investigation by Informant "I" has disclosed that NAKANo is a
native born Brazilian of Japanese extruction whose parents live in
São Paulo. Ho is & Second Lieutenant in tho Brazilian Army Reserve
and is a second yoar medical student in Rio. It has been learned that
he has becn employed from timo to time by the local plicc and has
handlod translations from Japaneso into Portuguose.  Inquiry has fur-
ther disclosed that he is quito friendly with another Japanese who has
been identified as GERALDO MASATUSI LiUTO, a dentist in São Paulo who
is presently residing at a boerding house on Rua Marques do Parana
110. It has been ascertained that MUTo is studying denistry in the
City of Rio and in this connection frequently contacts two dentists,
ALCEU MATISTA and DAVID SIMON who maintaine offices at Rua da
Assembleia 104 in the Edificio Gonçalves Dias. IMUTo is also friendly
with one LUIZ KA YUKAISAKAI, residence, Barão da Torre 624, and he is
the owner of the Fabrica de Doces Biton, also located at this address.
I UTO has been observed to have called at the residence of NAKAMO quite
often and the two go tocially together frequently. It appears that they
were acquainted with each other while they resided in São Paulo. It
was also established tho the investigation of NAliNo that ho is
acquainted with JORGE HIGASHI about whom information is sot forth
below.
Aside from NAKAno'S association with Japanese, nothing of any
particular significance has beon ascortained through investigation of
his activities.
-25 -

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.98)
KINROKU SUZUKI, ALIAS KIUROKU SUZUCKI
As indicated above, SUZUKI was in contact with RYOKICHI NAGAI
as well as TSUNEO NOMA. It was learned by Informant "I" that SUZUKI
formerly resided at Ledeira da Gloria 12, 7th floor, apt. 47, prior
to the time that he was repatriated on the SS GRIPSHOLM which ieft
Rio de Janeiro on September 18, 19l!3. On the repatriation list, he
was listed as an employee of BRAZCOT LTDA, and his wife, NORIKO
SUZUKI, was returning to Japan with him. sUZUKI was in possession of
Carteira de Identidade Number 10S036; that his wife's Carteira Number
was 112420.
SUZUKI was placed under observation on September 13, 1943 which
was just prior to the time thet Japanese Repatriates from São Paulo
were arriving in Rio de Janeiro. SUZUKI was observed to have made a
number of purchases proparatory to his leaving for Japan.
14th,
On Soptomber. SUZUkI went to the Taberna da Gloria where he mot a
Woman who has since been idontified as LIDIA PEREIRA LANGHANS. This
neeting took placc in the lato afternoon and around 6:25 pm, another
Japanoso arrived and was prusented to Miss LIDIA PEREIRA LANGHANS,
and thc throe rumained in tho Taberna da Gloria drinking and con-
versing for some time. At 7:40 pm, they left and walked to the
Hotel Regina where they partod company; tho woman procoeding to
Rua Santa Christina 41, where sho rosidcs.
On September 17th, SUZUKI 1eft his home at 7:35 am, and met an
unidentified woman on the Praca Paris. Informant "I" has advised
that the womanwas
of Japanese extraction. They conversed for
a short time and SuzuiI took four letters from his pocket and gave
them to the woman ho put them in her purse. Soon after, they parted
company; the woman took a strcet car and proceeded to the corner of
Rua 7 de Setembro and Rua Uruguaiana whero she met a Japanese who was
waiting there. She gave him tho letters and the two later mado
several purchases and finally procecded to the Hotel Suisso where
most of tho Japanese repatriatos were residing prior to their de-
parture for Japan. SUzUkI was observod later on in the afternoon
around six o'clock pm to proceod to Rua Fabio da Luz l:39. Informants
state that SUzUkI appoerod to bo rather nervous on this occasion as
he was continually looking behind him. This stroct is said to be
located in the "Boca do Mato" and is completoly desolate during the
day and night. Inquiry by the infornants disclosed that a Japanese
whoso name is sUzUkI resides at this address. Furthor inquiry by
Informant "I" has disclosed that SUZUkI also maintained contact with
both TSUNEO NOMA and KANJI SHIRATO, and it appoars that SUZUKI at
ono time may have boen employod in the firm ZAKI SHIRATO & CIA, Rua
da Rosario 69. The Informant stated that it appears that SUzUKI
had an interest in this business and was observed to heve called at
the office of the firm on a number of occasions.
-26 -

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.99)
LIDIA PEREIRA LANGHANS: ALIAS VERONICA:
After it was established that Miss PEREIRA was in contact with
KINROKU SUZUKI, further investigation was carried out concerning her
by Informant "I".
It was learned that she is employed as an entertainer in the
baret Tabaris, located at Rua Riachuelo No. ll. She has worked
ore for approximately one year and earns her money from that spent
y patrons, receiving a commission on the sale of drinks. This
cabaret is said to be frequented by sailors and quite a number of
Americans have been observed there. In the cabaret, she is known as
VERONICA and passes as a Polish girl. Sho speaks English fluently and
apnoars to prefer American and English sailors. An assistant of
Informant "I" questioned liiss PEREIRA under pretext as to her relations
with the Japanese and she stated that SUZUKI had known her for some
time; that she had met him casually in the city and had made a date
with him at the Taberna da Gloria where they had conversod. The
informant stated that shc did not appear to be carrying on an amorous
affair with thc Japanese.
Miss PEREIRA'S activities werc observed periodically and nothing
abnormal was noted by the informant. The informants advised, however,
that on September 22nd, she Was obscerved to have gone to the Florida
Bar, located on the Praca Maun, whore she convcrsed with a waiter in
this establishmont apparently attompting to locate some one. Apparont-
ly not finding tho person she was looking for, finally roturned to
the center of the city where she did somc shopoing and finally around
8:30 pm, she went to tho Taberna dos Arcos where her fiancee JoSE
GERALDO was waiting. They had dinner together and around 9:30 pm,
she proceeded to the Tabaris where she entered on duty for the evening.
The informants later ascertained that Miss PEREIRA contacted in the
Florida Bar, one HANOEL DE SOUZA IENDES who resides on Rua Dr. Bulhoes
No. 774, casa 5.
Informant "I" contacted SOUZA and attempted to elicit information
concerning Miss PEREIRA, but he steted that he knew no person by this
rame and was not acquainted with any girls employed in the Tabaris.
Informant "I" furnished the following description of the subject
as was obtained through observation:
AGE:
28
HEIGHT:
1 meter 65
BUILD:
Slightly stout; thick legs
EYES:
Blue
HAIR:
Brown and long
APPEARajiCE: Is very attractive; wears quite a bit of
makeup and has a German appearance.
NATIONALITY: Possibly German or Polish. Is in
possession of Carteira Number 132252.
-27-

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.98)
TSUNEO NOMA, ALIAS TSUNEO NOWA:
Invostigation concerning this subject has been carried out based
on information submitted by Source "I" to the effect that he is known
to have contacted RYOKICHI NAGΛI, KANJI SHIRATO and other individuals
under suspiciaus circumstances.
Source "B" advised that he resided at Rua Paulo de Fonton 53,
Rio. It was ascertained, however, that HolA moved from this address to
ua silvio Romero 22, where he was residing up until he left Brazil
on the SS GRIPSHOLIf under repatriation to Japan. Of possible
significance to the instant investigation, an anonymous letter dated
August 12, 1943 was dirocted to the American imbassy in Rio de
Janciro. The envelope in which the lettor was onclosed appeared to
have been posted on a train in tho State of São Paulo on August 15,
1943, and it was noted that the envelope bore the return address of
Hotel Globo, Cruzoiro, State of São Paulo. In the right hand corner
of the envelope was printed the name I1. Al Tos, Tolephono 63, Rua Eng.
A. Ponido 694. The body of tho letter which was written in oxcellent
Portuguese is translated in English as follows:
1i
Cruzciro Station of São Paulo, August 12, 1943
To the Chief of the War Information Service
o thc American Enbassy in Brazil.
To hide behind the mantel of anonynity can very often be the
igma of cowardice, but it can also be the sign of those whom destiny
co iges to work for one cause in benefit of another. Thus, I wish to
bring to your attention a fact and to show you one cf those beloved
Orientals who work so hard against Brazil and her Allies overseas.
You will undoubtedly find it strange that this letter is addressed
to a Chief of a secret organization foreign to Brazil, but with your
knowledge of the secret service, you will soon realize the small degree
of efficiency of our agents, who only now have como into contact with
an organization modeled after the great organizaticns.
Let us now take up the subject whichh is the object of this
letter. Thrce years ago in Buenos Aires I kmew an agent of the
powerful Oriental organization, the BLACk DRaGON, with whom I was very
well acquainted and from whom I meritod the most dclicate attention.
One night in a cafoteria situated on Avenida Corrientes. after con-
versing for some time, the agent in question told rc thit tho
oporations of the Nipo-Nazi agents vould bo directod from the
Argentine Capital with branches in all the Amcricas - referring to
the fact of a possible war with tho nephows of Uncle Sam - and that
all the American Ropublics, with tho exception of Argontina, would
join the United States; He showed mo how dungerous it would be to
have a transmittor within enomy torritory and (told mo) that the
-28-

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.99)
communications of agents operating in belligerent territory would be
sent in coded messages contained in innocent announcements and arti-
cles appearing in the papers which have the largest circulation in
the country. Well, yesterday I saw this agent in the Cruzeiro Station
and while talking to him I learned that he is operating in Brazil
together with other of his compatriots. In mentioning the names of
these agents, I make the modest requcst that you avoid as much as
possible letting the Secret Service of the Brazilian Army and certain
elements of the P.C.D.F. (belioved to be Policia Central do Distrito
Federal) know that you aro working for the destruction of the
Oriental castle in Brazil. If my roquest is not granted, you lose
from the beginning the hope of getting anywhero and beliove me when I
say that my life will be in groat danger.
Hero is tho list of those which I succecdod in learning and which
I investigatod:
NOWA TSENEO;
Controller of information and
directly rosponsible for tho
officiency of tho servicc in
Brazil.
ZOMURA ARAKI;
Responsible for the finances
of the organization.
AKI AOKA;
Contact agent (or courier).
CATHARINA IRIS;
Sentinel of the organization
and charged with obtaining
financial bc.cking among the
subjects of the likado.
According to the information of ZOMURA ARAKI, the agent
mentioned throughout the letter, NOwA TSENEo abandoned, for the
convenience of the service, the post vhich he held, and the new
Chief proceeding from Chile shouid arrive within a few days.
Hoping that your efforts will be crowned with success, I remain
in the expectation of one day being able to come forward.
I sign myself....for example.
UBIRATAN ROBERTO SIQUEIRA
Ro-Rome-ber-Berlin-Toyko"
- 29 -

=== Page 466 === (confidence 0.98)
Subsequent inquiry by Informant "I" has identified the writer of
this letter and it now appears that the realibility of the information
furnished is doubtful. Inasmuch as the Informant appears to have
some knowledge of Japanese activities; however, it is being considered
as of possible significance, due to the fact that reference was made to
OA TSENEO who is believed to be identical with TSUNEO NOMA referred
 above. It should be noted that the writer of the anonymous letter
escribed NO/A as the "Controller of information and directly
esponsible for the efficiency of the service in Brazil". It should
also bo noted that the anonyuous informant stated that NoWA had
abandonod "For the convenience of the service" the post which he held
and a new chief who was procecding from Chilo should arrive within a
few days. It is to be observed that at the time this letter was
vritten, NollA already roqucstod to bo repatriated to Japan, had moved
to Rua Silvio Romero 22, and was not obscrvod to have boen contacting
other suspects that ho had becn regularly contacting prior to that
time.
Attempts to identify the other subjects referred to in the
anonymous letter have been negative. Confidential Source "E" has
advised that the records of the local police department and the
Ministry of Labor have been choclod for fichas in an effort to
identify the following subjects with negative results: NOWA TSENEO,
ZOMURA ARAKI, AKI AOKA and CATARINA IRIS.
Informant "I" has advised, however, that in the latter part of
1940, one CATA7INA IRIS Was registered With the REGISTRO DO ESTRAN-
GEIRos in Rio and had applied for her cartoira de idontidade. However,
in the beginning of 194i those papers disappeared and thero is no
record of this subjoct at the prosent timo. All other checks by
Informant "I" have likewiso boon negative.
As to tho possibility that an agont or agonts may be proceeding
to Brazil in conncction with Japaneso intelligonce work, Source "j"
has advised that inquiry failed to disclosc that any of the Chilean
subjocts connocted with the instant case are planning to come to
Drazil.
Source "A" has previously advised that one KATSUSHIGE, South
American leader of the Japanese Black Dragon Society arrived in
Buenos Aires several months ago for the purpose of organizing a wave
of sabotage in Brazil and Chile. Information received by Source "K"
to the effect that three agents of the Black Dragon Society who will
assist HANANI are: HARUMI GATO, INANO ITAKURA and RICHEL SUZUKI.
The last mentioned agents are connected vith the dry cleaning establish-
ment
-30 -

=== Page 467 === (confidence 0.97)
located at Calle de Independencia 3693, Buenos Aires. Source "K"
also advised that information had been received to the effect that
HANANI had left Buonos Aires proceeding to Cordoba, Argentina, and
is belioved to havo recontly crossed into Brazil. According to the
information received, he is believed to be rosiding in Sao Paulo,
 inquiry there has failed to disclose his prosent wheroabouts.
As indicated above, Source "I" advised that NOMA formerly
sided at Rua Paulo de Fonton 53, and hc is said to havo lived for a
time with an "AMANTE", one ROsnLIn LEITE LINS, a native of Fortaleza,
razil who is last known to have resided at Rua Voluntarios da Patria
2. The two are said to have carried on un affair for almost two
years and prior to the timo thet Nolia came to live with the woman they
took their meals togother at a pensão located at Rua Pinhoiro
Guimaraes 78. Tho woman is doscribed as approximately twenty-nine
yoars of age and is in possossion of Cartoira Proficional 957,697.
In addition to NOA'S known contacts with NAGAI and SHIRATO, it
was ostablishod through investigation by Informant "I" that ho con
tacted JOAQUIM HIGASHI occasionally at his place of business locatod
at Rua Alfandega ll0, and he was also obsorved to havo called on two
Japanose, TSUGIO KAlI and ONOYUKI HA EGA A who run a ropair shop for
bicycles at Rua Barão de Mosquitu 932. Theso Japanoso lave resided
in Brazil for a number of years and notning of a derogatory nature is
known concerning them.
NOMA is also known to have been in frequent contact with KINROKU
SUZUkI, referred to above and Informant "I" has advised that SUZUKI
is an old friend of NOlil. He has also been observed on one occasion
to meet MOICHIRO ADASHI on the corner of Rua São José and Rua da
uitanda where the two conversed for some time. NoMA is kmown to
have been in previous contact with ADasHI. Informants noted that
TOMA made a number of purchases preparatory to his disembarking on the
SS GRIPSHOLll, and he is knovm to havo had at least. eleven pieoes of
luggage at the time he actually left. He contacted a number of
Japanese apparently in connection with his purchases and it seems that
he was attempting to carry as much clothing and wearing apparel out
of Brazil as possible.
On August 30th, NOMA left his residence and went to Rua São Pedro
208, which is the address of the Nichitani & Co., where he conversed
with a fellow Japaneso. On the following day, August 3lst, a
Japanese arrived at NOMA'S residonce around 8-25 am, and tho two
shortly thereafter left the houso with & suit case which they took to
Rua São Pedro 208, leaving tho suit casc with an employeo of the
Nichitani and Co. Prior to his doparture, NOMA was obsorved to have
COntacted KANJI SHIRATO and JOAQUIM HIGASHI upon a number of occasion
He was also in contact vith an unidontified Japanese who is an
employee of the HACHIYA ANDRADE &: CO., Rua Toofilo Otoni 85.
-31-

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.97)
On September 3rd, he was also observed to have called at the
residence of KOJIRO SAWAMURA who formerly resided at Rua General
Joffre 62, who also was repatriated on the SS GRIPSHOLM.
On September 4th, NOMA ontacted RUITARO KIYOKARA who resides
at Rua Cosme Velho 104, casa 15, with two other Japanese.
On September 5th, he met another Japanese, one KANEKO DAGYRO, who
is presentiy residing at Rua Idalina 15.
On September 8th, NOliA went to the railway station Estacão Dom
Podro II, in tho company of another Japanese vhere they met SUETAKA
nYro and two other menbers of the Spanish Embassy and still another
Japancse who were waiting for the arrival of tho Japanese repatriates
from São Paulo. It was learned that the daughter of NoMA who is
married to ono HAliAmURA was on the train and both were being repatriat-
od. ost of the Japanose from São Paulo registerod at Hotel Suisso
and NOliA was observed to go on a number of occasions to this hotel to
visit the Japanese who were waiting their departure for Japan.
It appears that the Japanese friend of NOMA who 1s employed by
Nichitani & Co.,
is one YaoUo AGURA as he is known to have called
at the residence of NoliA on Septcnber 11, carrying a suit case which
was apparently
identical vith the one 1eft at Rua São Pedro 208 by
NOMA.
On September 12th, NOIiA callcd at the residence of SAWALURA,
later returning to the Hotol Suisso and upon loaving there
returned to the residence of KI ROKU sU UKI.
On September 13th, NoliA left his rosidonce going to the Hotel
Suisso around 8:30 an, remaining there about an hour and then
went to Rua da Alfandega 11O, tho firm of JORGE & JOAQUIM HIGASHI.
On September th, NOlMA called at the office of NICHITANI & CO.,
later convorsed with KANJI SHIRATO and around 3:30 pm, went to the
Spanish Embassy. Shortly thereaftor, about four o'clock, SUETAKA
AYAO accompanied by an employec of tho Spanish Embassy arrived and
HOMA finally loft the Embassy around 5:30 pm.
On September 15th, NOMA met ono OTA KAGO in the city on the
corner of Rua Rodrigo Silva and Rua da Assomblbia where thoy con-
vorsed for somo time. They parted company but continued in the same
direction. KAGo going to the llunicipai Market No. 22|2lt. It has beon
loarned that KAGo is a partner in tho store located at this address.
Around four o'clock pm, NOMA was arrostcd by tho local police while
at tho Hotel SUISSO. It has boon loarned that NOmA'S effccts wore
given a porfunctory search. Ho was intorrogated a short time and was
later roleased. Nothing of significance was dovoloped through the
search and intorrogation.
-32-

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.97)
In connection with tho handling of the inspoction of the
baggago and tho porson of the ropatriates who wure disombarking on
the s GRIPSHOLM, it has bocn loarned that all were given only a por
functory examination and were allowed to co aboard the vessel.
Several Japanese in addition to NOliA were held for questioning and
closer inspection, but nothing of significance has been obtained from
the local police relative to their inspection. NoMA went aboard the
s GRIPsHoLi: on September 17th, and did not leave the ship again prior
to the time it left the Rio harbor.
-33-

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.98)
JORGE HIGASHI:
Some inquiry was made conccrning this subject after it was
established that he was in contact with RYOKICHI NAGAI and had been
observed to call at the latter's home on several occasions. Informant
"I" has ascertained that HIGASHI is presently residing at Rua 2 de
Dezembro 1l0 and is living with a woman who is not believed to be his
Wife. He is employed by the J. HIGASHI & CIA., a firm dealing in
china and porcelain, located at Rua da Alfandega l10. This firm is
caid to be a subsidiary or a branch of a Japanese firm whose head
office is in Japan. JORGE'S brother, JOAQUIM HIGASHI, is one of the
owners of the Rio firm and the head of the concern is said to be a son-
in-law of JOAQUIM, onc ROGER ANQUENTIN, who resides with his wife and
son at Aveneida Ataulfo de Paiva 1280. ANQUENTIN 1s of Fronch ex-
traction and has rosided in Brazil for some time. One of the employees
of the firm has advised Informant "I" that the Japanese are.exceilent
employers and associates and that tho chiof of the firm JOAQUIli
HIGASHI is a very good and charitable man. This employeo further
advised that he was well regarded by the police and nothing of a
derogatory nature was known concerning his activities.
Inquiry by Informant "I" has isclosed that JORGE HIGASHI and his
wife or mistress aro acquaintcc with CONCEICAO COSTA previously re-
ferred to as having been obsorved in the company of both FRAnCIsco
HIDEMI NAKANO and MOICHIRO ADASHI. Ine Informant has loarned that
she is a daughter of a Portugueso coal icaler in Rio and she is em-
ployed at a dress maker's shop by one IARIA AsCoLI, located at Rua
2 de Dezembro 22a. She rosidis with hor father at Rua Pedro Americo
32. It was also dctornined that HIGASiI accompaniod by an unknown
individual called at Rua Francisco Coutinho No. 298 locatod in Maria
da Graça, a suburb of Rio. In tho ncighborhod, it was lcarned that a
woman who is. married to an Italian who livos at this address was
known as DONA AURORA. She was intorviewod undor protext, by an
assistant of Informant "I", advising him that she and her husband, who
yoars. She adviscd that sho is a Brazilian and has a daughtor who is
about sixteun years of ago. Sho furthor advised that she had a niece
who camo to visit DONA AURORA and who is staying at her addruss and
commented that the niece is un orphan and lives with JORGE HIGASHI.
IIGAsHI was also obsorved to call at Rua Santa Aloxandrina 1lo, but the
idontity of tho prson contactod thero is not known. It was learned,
howover, that tho mistross or wifo of HIGAsHI has visited tho wifo of
JOSE ALVES DA SILVA, who is omployed by the Casa do Banhos, locatod
on Rua do Carmo.
JOAQUIM HIGASHI:
As indicated abovo, this individual is a brother of JORGE HIGASHI
and inquiry concurning his background activities was made by Informant
"I" inasmuch as it was ostablishod that he has proviously boon in con-
一4-

=== Page 471 === (confidence 0.98)
contact with TSUNEO NOMA and is friendly with KANJI SHIRATO. He 1s
presently residing at Rua Acaraf 1l. Heis married and has two married
daughters, one of whom 1s the wife of ROGER AWQUENTIN, Av. Ataulfo de
Paiva 128o, referred to above, and tho other married to one KARL
BECKER, a German who resides at Rua Dias Ferreira 68.
JOAQUIN is the manager and principal owner of the J. HIGASHI & Cia,
Rua da Alfandega ll0 and inquiry by Informant "I" has disclosed that
he bears a very good reputation with the employees of the firm.
Observation of JoAQUI'S activity has failed to disclose any abna mal
movements and ms t of his time is spent either in his store or in his
home or in the homes of his daughters. Io is said to fish quite a bit
and of possible significance, it was ascertainod that on July 24th, he
was contacted vhile fishing off the rocks of Aveneida Niemeyer by an
individual who has subsequently been identified as PAULo SELMUND, a
German who residos at Avenida Epitacio Pessos 128. SEEMUND is said to
bo a mechanic and is believed to be omployed by the firm ROBERTO KRONIG
& CIA, located at Rua Telfio Otoni 90. SEElUND 1s said to be friendly
with one WOLFGANG HANSTEIN, Rua Prudente do Moraos 45, casa 1, and
CARLOS DOBBELIN, who resides in Casa numbor 2 at the same addross.
SEEIUND is also friendly with onc LUDVIG STUTZEL who resides at
Rua Visconde do Piraja 430, and is omployod by the Michaholles & Cia.,
Ltda.,
Rua Mayrink Veiga 8. LUDWIG STUTZEL is also a contact of
SUETAKA HAYAO as HAYAO is known to have called on him at his residence
on July 26th. Although it is not established that he has been in
contact with JOAQUIM HIGASHI, he has been seen in the company of
HANSTEIN and DOBBELIlf. STUTZEL is apparently carrying on an affair
with AGDA TEIXEIRA who resides at Rua Francisco Muratori 36.
STUTZEL'S activity was obscrved for a short time and the inform-
ants stated that he appears to be very nervous and is apparently
"tail shy".
With regard to KARL BECKER, the son-in-law of JOAQUIM HIGASHI,
nothing of a dorogatory nature has been obtained. The employement of
BECKER is not known at this time but he maintains an office at Praça
Tiradantos 79, where he has vorked for approximately eight months. An
assistant of Informant "I" questioned the janitor of this building who
advised that while cleaning BECKER's office, he has noticed envelopes
bearing American stamps and one letter was postmarked Chicago.
Illinois. On another occasion, he noted a letter written in Japanose
in BECKER'S waste-basket. A "waste cover age" on BECIER'S office has
failed to disclose anything of significance.
-35-

=== Page 472 === (confidence 0.98)
The following description of HIGAsHI as obtained by Informant
"I" through observation is set out below:
AGE:
Approximately 50
HEIGHT:
1 meter, 55
WEIGHT:
50 kilos
BUILD:
Small and very thin
HAIR:
Black; slightiy bald
EYES:
Very dark
APPEARANCE:
Always well dressed
PECULARITIES:
alks very fast, takes small steps,
when removing hat, uses both hands
and always holds it with both
hands. On the bottom of his left
eur he has a snall ball of skin.
He is a tynical Japanese.
KOJIRO SAWAMURA:
As indicated above, this subject was repatriated on the S. S.
GRIPsHOLH which 1eft Rio de Janeiro on September 18, 1943. He
formerly resided at Rua General Joffre o2, and one SHOSAKU HaNANO
resided at this address vith him.
It was previously established through investigation that SAwAmURA
was in contact with SUTaKA HAYAO and on August l6th, HAYAO was ob-
served to have met SAlvAliURA, who after leaving HAYaO, went directly to
Rua Carauru L148, Apt. 201, where he remained for some time conversing
with two Japanese who reside there. In view of his known contacts
with HAYAo and TSUmo OLA, inquiry vas mede in an offort to identify
the occupants at Rua Caruaru Ll:8. It was ascortained by Informant "I"
that KASU HAKIAliA, TOMATZU ABE and HERlANP GATTER all roside together
at this address. HiKIiiA is the chief of a button and china factory
of tho HACHIYA, ANDRADE & CIA., Rue Toofilo Oton1 85. It was also
ascertainod that ABE is a stono-cutter and works at Rua Visconde do
Rio Branco No. 29. He has been employed there since July 1, 1943 and
1s the bearer of Carteira No. 178,393.
HERliANi GaTTER is also employed at this address, is a German and
is the bearer of Carteira No. i62,703. le has been so employed since
February 15, 1943. Aside from their contacts, nothing of a derogatory
nature is known concerning any of the individuals who reside at this
address.
It was ostablished by Informant "I" howover, that HAkIaMA is
friendly with a Japanese, one MITSU HAilANO, who is the son of SHOSAKU
HANANO, who residod with SA AiaURA before the lattor left Rio under the
repatriation quota. Young LilANo was formerly employed in Nilopolis.
His employment at tho present timo is unlmown. He resides at Rua
Ernesto de Souza 13; both ho and HAiIAiiA havo beon observed to call at
the former rosidence of SA /AliURA on scveral occasions and HAkIAMA often
visits the firm NIsHITANI & CIA.
-36-

=== Page 473 === (confidence 0.99)
ARY PINHEIRO ANDRAD FIGUEIRA:
As indicated by Source "B", FIGUEIRA maintains a residence at
Rua Clemente Falcao 64, and maintains a law office at Rua do Rosario
107, 4th f1oor, sala 401.
FIGUEIRA is reputedly quite wealthy and not very active in the
practice of law at the present time. He continues, however, to repre-
sent the Bank of London in Rio; is the retainer for the Yokohama
Specie Bank, which at the present time is effecting little business
due to the stringent fiscalization by the Brazilian covernment.
His law office is also shared by three other attorneys, OSWALDO
SABACK, HARALDO MELO and DOMINGOS FEREIRA. Informant "E" has advised
that FIGUEIRA is married to MARIA RITA and the couple have two minor
sons. FIGUEIRA is also the guardian of his minor cousin SERGIO
MANERAT, who lives at the FIGUEIRA residence. The informant has also
advised that FIGUEIRA has been the subject of some inquiry by the
local police but the exact nature of this investigation has not been
determined. His activity, recently, appears to have been normal and
it has been observed that he has very few contacts, other than with
other attorneys and his clients. As indicated previously, FIGUEIRA
was interviewed by Source "c" and stated at that time that ho had
no connection with Japanese since he resigned his power of attorney
as a representative for the SOCIEDADE COi. ERCIAL NIPO-BRASILEIRA. He
also stated on this occasion that he continued to handle a few legel
matters for the YOKOHAlA SPECIE BANK but stated that he had little to
do in this connection at the presont time due to the fact that the
bank was effecting very little new business. During the interview
with Source "C", FIGUEIRA appeared to be quite cooperative and
described himself as "a good Brazilian", and appeared to be very pro-
Allied in sympathy. Ho volunteored to furnish any information that he
might have which would be of interost in connection with subversive
activities, but when questioned specifically with regard to his
dealings with the Japanese, he appeared to be quite evasive. It
should be noted that under the circumstances, Source "c" was not in a
position to question FIGUEIRA closely in connection with subjects in
instant case, but as previously stated, he volunteered the information
that he had severed his connoctions with the SOCIEDADE COMERCIAL
NIPO-BRASILEIRA due to the fact that representatives of the NAMBEI
TRADING COMPANY had written him several letters:which he had not
answered, requesting "certain information which he did not feel
the Japanese should receive, especially since Brazil had severed
relations with Japan and was at war with her Ally, Germany"
Source "K", who 1s acquainted with FIGUEIRA, was questioned gon-
cerning his background and activities and this source advised that he
was satisfied that FIGUEIRA was actually pro-Allied in sympathy and
was not engaging in any subversive activity.
-37-

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.98)
Inasmuch as previous inquiry has failed to disclose any unusual
activities on the part of FIGUEIRA in recent weeks, the surveillance
on this subject has been discontinued, but the following additional
data has been obtained concerning him and his contacts through
investigation.
Source "B" indicated that on June 15, 1943, around 6:10 pm,
FIGUEIRA, together with one ERMANo DO, ANJOS, proceeded by car to
Campo-Grande just outside of Rio and ce two entered a house located
at Estrada do Monteiro, No. 634. It was subsequently ascertained that
one KITA AGA TETuURo formerly lived there with his wife and two sons,
but has since moved from this address and his present whereabouts are
unknown. Anothor Japanese thought to be HaCHIYA MOTOSUKI joined
TETSURO, DOS ANJOS and FIGUEIRA and they all proceeded to e confeitaria
located on the Av. Duque de Caxias where thoy entered and sat down and
ordered sandwiches. Tho investigator obsorving the group, overhoard a
portion of tho conversation which indicated that certain information
vas expectod fron Mangaratiba which is a very small town situatod on
the Coast of Brazil, approximatoly fifty milos south of Rio do Janeiro
in thu Stato of Rio do Janciro. FIGUEIRA, on leaving tho confeitaria
gavo DOS ANJOS three contos -- 150 dollars in U.S. Currency -- and
indicated that ho, DOS ANJOS, was proccoding to Liangaratiba and that
information obtained by DoS ANJOS should bo telophone to telephone
number 43-1599 in Rio, which number is rogistorcd in tho name of Dr.
FAULO MARTINS FILHO, a lawyor who maintains an offico at Rua 1º de
Larço 6, 4e sala 8. Dos AiiJos was also a1luged to have mentionod that
cortain nows was coming to tho ILHA DO PINTO DAS BAlAilAS.
Inquiry by Source "H" disclosed that lMangaratiba is situated on
a natural harbor but which is without sufficient dept for large
shipping. There aro many islands in the harbor, one of which is the
Island do Pinto das Bananas. One of the largest islands located in
the harbor is the Ilha Grinde mhicn is used as a political prison for
approximately four thousand interned pro-Axis political prisoners.
Most of the prisoners there are saic. to be Gerinans, but it is known
that there are some Japanese also interned on the island. For this
reason, the Hotel Rio Branco which is owned by a young man of Italian
descent, one HERNANI JAN/UZZI, is often filled with relatives and
friends of the interned prisonors who aro permitted to spond all of
their daylight hours on the Ilha Grande visiting these persons.
JAInNUZZI informod Source "II" that at times Japanese have come
to visit those prisoners. Inasmuch as ERNANI DOS AllJOS is a lawyor,
it is suggested that he may have beon making tho trip to Mangaratiba
in connection with the handling of legal affairs of Japanese interned
on the island.
Source "H" also loarned through JAfyUZZI that tho Ilha do Pinto
das Bananas is ownod by onc ALBERTo PINTO, who spends somo time on the
island and also maintains a residonce in Rio do Janeiro at Rua Alziro
Brando 38. PInTo has a roputation of being a very heavy drinker and
-38 -

=== Page 475 === (confidence 0.98)
is generally disliked by the inhabitants due to his overbearing manner
toward his employees in connection with his banana business on the
ILHA.
One of PINTo's closest friends is the owner of the bar and
estaurant "MANGARATIBA", and one NACIME DUAS, an Italian, who is also
nown as JOSE. These two, according to Source "I", are very close
riends and DUliAs takes care of any correspondents coming to Mangar-
tiba for PINTo. PINTo and DUliaS are said to be pro-Nazi in sympathy
is Woll as others who frequent DUMAS' place of business. PINTo has
lis own transportation service between his island and the mainland and
in addition, thereto, thore is a commercial company known as the
BITEiCoURT & CIA., which operatcs a launch traveling between Jacarehy
and liangaratiba, as woll as to other islands in tho harbor. Source
"I" has advisod that it is well known that tho company is somewhat un-
scrupulous in its businoss and due to the laxity of tho local police,
it is possible for persons to travel from tho mainland to tho nearby
islands at almost any time. The launch maintained by the company is
actually said to bolong to DIB JORGE SIMOES who in turn owns the
CIA. VIAÇAO SUL FLUMINENSE. The informents have advised that due to
the fact that many foroigners stay at JANNUZI'S hotel, JANNUZI is very
cooperative with the opurators of the launch and it is possible for
him to arrango for boat service any time of tho day or night.
Another friend of ALBEITTO FINTO is ono JOAO HARRINGER, who buys
PINTO'S bananas for oxport. Ho is tho owmer of thc launch "GUANABARA",
which is registercd in the numo of one  ANOEL DIAS FERNANDES.
In addition to the banana business carried on on the island,
PITo is also said to maintain a lumber business and raises some
produce supplying the prison on the Ilha Grande. He has in his employ,
one JOAO BENEDITO, who operates the launch that carries the produce
from the Ilha Grande to the prison, as well as to the mainland. In his
leisure time his launch is available for sight-seers.
Source "H" made the acquaintance of JOAO BENLEDITO and took a
short trip on his launch through the harbor. BENEDITo was very non-
committal and his conversations disclosed nothing of interest concern-
ing the operation of the island. PINTo, as indicated, is presently
residing in Rio, goes to the island on Fridays and returns to the city
on Monday Nothing of a derogatory nature has been ascertained c∞n-
cerning him while in Rio.
FIGUEIRA continues to contuct one MARJORIE WICKS, a French woman,
who resides at Avenida Atlantica l008, 8th floor, apt. 18, with whom
he has been carrying on an amorous affair for some time.
Miss WICkS' activity appears to bo normal and nothing of a
derogatory nature is kmown concorning her. FIGUEIRA has also been
observed frequently in the company of Dr. JOAQUIM NOGUEIRA LIMA who is
also a lawyer with offices at Rua 1 do Margo 6, 4th floor, room 8.
-39 -

=== Page 476 === (confidence 0.99)
The following is a description of FIGUEIRA as obtained by Source
"C" through observation:
AGE:
Approximately 38 to 40
HEIGH T:
5 feet 8 inches
WEIGHT:
150 pounds
HAIR:
Black, rather bushy, combed dry and
straight back.
EYES:
Dark brown.
COMPLEXION:
Dark or rather brown.
SPEECH:
Speaks fairly good English but
slowly and with deliberation.
DRESS:
Very neat.
APPEARANCE:
Wears expensive but conservative
clothing; wears golden wedding band
on third finger of left hand. Is
typical Brazilian, giving impression
of being very intelligent.
ERMANO DOS ANJOS. ALIAS ERMANI DOS ANJOS:
Due to the subject's association With FIGUEIRA, and because of his
contacts with Japanese under the circulsiances as outlined above,
further inquiry has been made by Infornant "I" concerning his back-
ground and activities. It has been learned that he is presently
residing. with lirs. ODILIN DOS ANJOS,. presumably his mother, at Avenida
Pasteur 463. He shares the law office of his uncle APRIGI0 DOS ANJOS
located at Rua Araujo Porto Alegre No. 70, sala 318. The uncle
resides at Travessa Umbelina 14, 4th floor, apt. 17. The subject
handles some legal practice and is also employed in the Juridical
Section of the Rio Port Administration which maintains offices at Rua
Rodrigues Alves 20.
Nothing unusual has been noted through an observation of Dos
ANJos' activities and most of his time is spent either in the office
of his uncle or in connection with his employment by the Rio Port
Administration. Aside from his contacts with the Japanese, as pointed
out above, most of his acquaintancos aro Brazilians and he has not
been obscrved with other Japanese in recont weeks. His uncle,
APRIGIO, is a quite well known attorney in Rio and is well regarded by
acquaintances, both from a social and political standpoint.
PAULO MARTINS FILHO:
As noted above, FIGUEIRA, while in Campo Grande in the company of
ERMANO DOS ANJOS, KÍTAWAGA TETSURO and MOTOSUKE, reQUOSTed DOS ANJOS
to telephone certain information from liangaratiba to telephone number
43-1599, which number is the teleplhone number of the above-named sub-
-40-

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.99)
ject who is a lawyer with offices at Rua 1e do Março 6, 4th floor,
sala 8. He resides at Rua Xavier Silveira 42.
It has been ascertained by Informant "I" that MARTINS is the son
of Dr. PAULO MARTINS, whowas an official of the Brazilian Treasury
Ministry at the time President GETULIO VARGAS was Minister.of this
department under the: regeme of President WASHINGTON LUIZ. His father
continued in this position after VARGAS was substituted as Minister
by OLIVEIRA BOTELHo, later the father was involved in a celebrated
scandal involving the purchasing of wheat from Argentina. The son,
is generally rogarded as a reputable lawyer but was reported at one
time as being pro-Nazi in sympathy and wus allegedly a momber of a
German club in Rio. MaRTINS is known to be on friendly terms with
ARY P. ANDRADE FIGUEIRA nd ALBERTO GOES TELLES.
SUETAKA HAYAO, ALIAS A. P. HAYAO:
This subject has been identified as the addressee of the quoted
letter enclosed in the letter to RYOKICHI NAGaI which was in turn
enclosed in the 1etter of September 4, 1924, addressed to Dr. ALBERTo
GOES TELLES. The envelope addressed to TELLS bore the return address
of FRANCISCo ORTIZ, Tucuman 1687. who as indicated above, 1s known to
serve as an intermediary for Japanese correspondents. between Buenos
Aires,and Santiago, Chile.
HAYAO has been under physical surveillance periodically during
recent woeks and has been observed to have been in contact with a
number of Japanese and other persons who may be considered suspicious.
In this connection, however, it should be notod that HAYAo is the
acting representative for the Japanese Covernment in the handling of
Japanese matters for Brazil through tho Spanish Enbassy and it
appears that many of his contacts heve been mado in the course of
legitimate business.
HAYAO was formerly tho Soc∞ond Socrotary of the Japenese Embassy
in Rio prior to tho severencc of rclations between Brasdl and Japan,
havirg been assignod to this position for a number of years. At the
prosent time ho maintains an offico in the Spanish Embassy, located at
RuaDivivier 43, Apt. 3. HAYAo also has boen observed to call at Praia
do Botafogo il2, 5th floor, which is the Commer cial Section of the
Spanish Embassy, and also at Praia do Flamingo 224, Apt. 2, which is
now the address of the Spanish Consulate.
HAYAO continues to reside at Rua Garcia d'Avila 118, which is
located in the Ipanema section of Rio. He is married and has one son,,
OTTo, who is reported to have applied for a scholarship to study in
the United States, but his application was refused. The son is
-41 -

=== Page 478 === (confidence 0.99)
reported to have recently entered the Reserve Officers, Training
Corps of the Brazilian Air Corps.
Although it would appear from the original letter directed to
TELLES that both TELLES and NAGAI were acquainted with HAYAO but
investigation has failed to disclose any contacts between these
individuals. It should be observed, however, that these subjects
have mutual contacts as indicated in this report.
Surveillance and inquiry by Informant "I" has disclosed that
HAYAo leads a very quiet life, spending most of his time at home and
usually spends two or three hours each day at the Spanish Embassy.
The inquiry has established that MOICHIRO ADASHI, about whom
information is set forth below has been in contact with HAYAO and has
been observed to call at HAYAO'S home. He is not known to have con-
tacted HAYAO at the Spanish Embassy.
A Japanese employee of the firm NISHITANI & CO., Rua São Pedro
No. 208, who is believed to be identical with YOSU YOGUSHI : has
been observed to contact HAYAO at the Spanish Embassy on several
occasions, As previously indicated in this report, HAYAo was observed
on July 26th, to have called at Rua Visconde de Piraja 430, at which
time he was carrying a leather brief case and was met at the door by
a man and two women. Subsequent investigation by Informant "I"
indicates that the individual contacted there by HAYAO was LUDWIG
STUTZEL, previously referred to in this report. The Informant has
advised that an individual who is apparently an employee of the
Spanish Embassy has been observed to call at the home of HAYAO,
apparently for the purpose of delivoring to him mail and other cor-
respondence in connection with his work at the Spanish Embassy. This
individual is referred to as EDUARDO; is a Portuguese, and was formerly
employed by the Japanese Embassy for a number of years.
On August 14th, HAYAO was observed to have met and conversed with
a Japanese who was standing on the corner noar a drug store kmown as
V. SILVA, located on Rua Rodrigo Silva. Subsequent investigation by
Informant "I" identified this Japanese as one KOíZo TAKAHASHI, who
resides at Rua Monte Alegre 377. On this same date, another Japanese
called at HAYAo's home and roceivod a letter from a woman during
HAYAO'S absence and was later identified as TADAU SIMIZU, Rua Concordia
33。
On August 16th, HAYA0 left tho Spanish Embassy around 2:30 pm and
ontered a small cafe on the corner of Rua da Quitanda and Rua 7 de
Setembro, where he met another Japanoso who was waiting. This Japanoss
was lator identifiod through invostigation as KOJIRO SAWAMURA, formerly
a resident as Rua Gonoral Joffro 62. As indicatcd above, SAWAMURA
was repatriatod on tho SS GRIPSHOLM which loft Rio do Janoiro on
Soptembor 18, 1943.
-42-

=== Page 479 === (confidence 0.98)
On August 17th, HAYAo was observed to have left the Spanish
Embassy and proceeded to Rua Tavares Bastos 21, casa 25, which has
been determined as the residence of a Japanese known as TAKEO GATO,
whose son is a Second Lieutenant in the Medical Corps of the Brazilian
Army. It was also learned that other Japanese reside at this address
and one MASAlMICHI MURAYA who resides at Rua Tavares Bastos 194. was at
this address during the same period that HAYAo was there. It has also
been established that one MAToZo NoGUCHI, Rua 18 de Outubro 86 has
called at the home of HAYAo. It has also been learned that one
EISUBURO MITSUZUKA who resides at Rua Gomes Carneiro 161, apt. 403,
as called at the home of HAYAO. This individual is said to be an
official of the YOKOHAMA SPECIE BANK in Rio de Janeiro and is quite
wealthy. He is the bearer of Carteira de Identidade 158,553. He
is approximately l4 years of age and married to AIKO MITSUZUKA, who
is 29 years of age and is thc bearer of two cartoiras 703,152 and
107,4443. They have two children, TAKESHI and NORIKO.
Of possible significance, HAYAo was observed on August 24th, to
go to the Astoria Threatre around three-thirty pm where he saw the
film, "The've Got Me Covered". He was observed on August 27th, to go
to the Astoria Theatre and again saw the film. It is suggested that
HAYAO may have possibly gone to the theatre on these two occasions
to meet someone.
On August 25th, an unidontified Japanese called to see HAYAo at
the Sp nish Embassy and upon leaving the Embassy with HAYAO was
carrying a roll of papers. He was la ter observed to call at Ladeira
dos Tabajaras 10, and while there apparontly left the papers that he
had previously had with him. Investigation by Informant "I" has
disclosed that one ANGELo PEDRo EsTAZIOlI resides at this address.
He was formerly connected with tho Rio Police but was dismissed by the
former Chief of Police ETCHGOYEN. He is now unemployed but oocasion-
ally serves as "DESPACHAiTE" who assists foroigners in obtaining their
identification papers.
On August 28th, HAYAO went to the Lido Restaurant, located just
off Av. Atlantica where he had lunch. About 2:45 pm, a Japanese who
has since been identified as TAKOZA HIROTA joined HAYAO at his table
and they conversed for a short time.
On August 30th, HAYAO was observed to have hurriedly left the
mbassy and went directly to his residence. A short time later, a
Japanese who has been identified as MANUEL JOAQUIM DA SILVA, also
known as "JAPONEZ" left HAYAO'S residence and proceeded to Rua Alvaro
Ramos 89, House Number 11, Apt, 20l. There he contacted KIUCHI
NANAMORI, whose daughter is employed by HAYAO in the Spanish Embassy.
JOAQUIM DA SILVA gavo the Japanese some money and it appears that he
had previously received this money from HAYAo as he was observed as
he loft HaYAOis home to put his hand into his pocket and took out
a sum of money and appeared to be counting same. It has been
-43-

=== Page 480 === (confidence 0.98)
ascer dined that SILVA is a Brazilian by birth, but is of Japanese
extractlon and presently resides at Rua Visconde do Uruguay i28,
Niteroi.
On August 31, FRANCIsCo HIDLMI NAKANO, referred to previously in
this report, was observed to have arrived at the home of HaYAo about
7-45 pm and remained there until approximatcly 9 o'clock, at which
time he left, returning to his residence.
HAYAO has also been contacted at his home by an unidentified
Japanose who resides at Rua Mario Montciro 4l8, Nilopolis, which is a
suburb of Rio. This Japanese apparently is employed by the HACHIYA
AllDRADE & CIA, in a warehouse of the company located at Av. Rodrigues
Alves 279. The subjoct claims that he is a Filipino but inquiries by
the Informant has disclosed that he is of Japanese extraction.
HAYAO was observed to have contacted a number of the Japanese
repatriates who arrived from São Paulo just prior to their departure
on the Ss GRIPSHOLM, and on September 16th and 17th, he was observed
in the company of KOJIRO SAWAliURA, who also saiIed on this vessel.
Nothing abnormal was not ed from HAYAo'S activities while the Japanese
were in Rio. Nothing further of significance has been obtained through
a surveillance of HAYAo and this type of coverage has been recently
suspended, inasmuch as it appears that HAYAO may have become conscious
of the "tail" on him.
The following is a description of HAYAO as obtained by Informant
"I" through observation:
AGL:
48
JEICHT:
80 kilos
HEIGIT:
1 meter 65
MARITAL STATUS: Married
HAIR:
Black
PECULIARITIES: He is robust, wears yellow-rimmed
glasses, and has thick lips.
MOICHIRO ADASHI:
After it was ascertained that this subject had been in contact
with SUETAKA HAYAO, inquiry was made by Informant "I" concerning his
background and activity. ADASHI runs a produce concern located in
the Municipal Market at numbers 108, 110 and 112, and fronts on the
Rio harbor. The business is actually located on Rua X, No. 38/40.
He resides with his wife TOSHIKO, and two children, and one TSUNEHISA
OKAMURA, at Rua Argentina 75A. OKAMURA is employed as a cashier in
the firm Sociedade Agicola Cotia, located at Praça 15 de Novembro
Jo. 38a. ADASHI buys most of his produce from Japanese who reside in
Santa Cruz, just outside of Rio and for this reason is known to have
many Japanese contacts. It should also be noted that a number of
-4-

=== Page 481 === (confidence 0.99)
oth Japanese have places of business in the Municipal Market and
ADASHi  opears to be quite well acquainted there. ADAsHI'S activity
and contacts do not appear to be suspicious but informants assigned
to this investigation have advised, however, that he has been seen on
more than one occasion to observe the ships that are anchored in the
Rio harbor with binoculars from an office window of his store.
Among those Japanese who have been identified as contacts of
ADASHI, is one YEMITSU NISHO who lives in Santa Cruz, and JUM KOGA who
is employed at Rua 10 do Mercado 22-24. (Municipal Market) and who
resides at Niteroi. KUMEKICHI AOKI, previously referred to in this
report, has also been in contact with ADAsHI, as well as SEHI SATOH
who has also been previously mentioned in this report. FRANCISco
HIDEMI KANANO is aiso known to be a friend of ADASHI, as well as
OSAMU TAMURA, who resides at Estudo Rio Grande 264. ADASHI has also
been contacted by a German, EDI.UNDO SCHULTZE, who resides at Av. dos
Aliados 421. SCHULTZE is said to have lived in Brazil for a number
of years and he owns a small farm called the "SITIO EDMUNDO" located
just outside of São Paulo in Suzana. SCHULTZE is said to be friendly
with two other Germans, EDGARD R. ZAlDER, Rua Natal 36, casa 5, and
KARL WOGERER, Praia Botafogo 296.
ADASHI is described as follows:
AGE:
Approximately 43
HEIGHT:
1 meter 60
WEIGHT:
56 to 60 kilos
BUILD:
Robust
HAIR:
Black
EYES:
Dark
APPEARANCE:
Typical Japanese; wears mustache.
MARITAL 3TATUS: Married, has two children.
NATIONALITY:
Japanese
With regard to TSUNEHISA OKAITURA. who resides with ADASHI, it
has been learned that he was in contact with TSUNEO NOMA prior to the
time this individual left Brazil.
OKAMURA is described as follows:
AGE:
Aporoximately 27
HEIGHT:
1 meter 55
WEIGHT:
56 kilos
COMPLEXION:
Regular
HAIR:
Black
EYES:
Dark
APPEARANCE:
Typical Japanese; clean shaven;
dresses neatly; walks with
short, quick steps.
NATIONALITY:
Japanese
MARITAL STATUS: Single
-45-

=== Page 482 === (confidence 0.99)
With regard to OSAMU TAMURA, a friend of ADASHI, is said to live
in the Japanese Colony at Santa Cruz, is friendly there with TOHIRO
OKY and his brother, TSHIRO OKY, both of whom reside at Estrade Rio
Grande 265; also MORIHAREI OGURO, who resides at Estrado Rio Grande
271, and CHYOiMATSU TOGASHI, who resides at Estrado Rio Grande 271.
KIUCHI NANAMORI:
As previously indicated in this report, this subject was given
money by MANOEL JOAQUIM DA SILVA after the latter had left the home of
SUETAKA HAYAO.
Investigation was carried out in an effort to obtain background
information concerning this subject and it was learned that he resided
at Rua Alvaro Ramos 89, casa 11, apt. 201. NANAMORI resides at this
address with his wife, two daughtors and one son. As previously
indicated, one of the daughters is employed by HAYAO in the Spanish
Embassy and the son has been drafted by the Brazilian Army and is
bolieved to be stationed in the North of Brazil at tho present time.
NelNAMORI has becn observed to go to Rua Voluntarios da Patria 241,
shop 2a, and may bo employed at this address. This shop, which does
radio repair work is said to be owned by JOno GOIES DA SILVA, whc is
a Brazilian nnd former radio-telegraphist.
MANOEL JOAQUIH DA SILVA. ALIAS JAPOIHEZ:
In view of the subject's contact with HAYAO and NAllAMORI, further
inquiry was made as to his identity and activities by Informant "I"
and it was learned that he is married to TEREZA DA ILVA, a Brazilian,
and has three children. They reside at Rua Visconde do Uruguay 128,
Niteroi. He is employed on the ILHA DO MUCANGUE, as a mechanic. His
parents. are Brazilians and reside at Rua Assis de Vasconcellos 47. His
father also bears the name of MAllOEL, is a native of Valença, State of
Rio de Janeiro and is employed in the shops of the Lloyd Brasileiro
Lines on the Ilha Do Mucangue. The mother is also said to be Brazilian
and a native of São Paulo. It appears, however, that she is of
Japanese extraction and some of the children have a definite
oriental appearance as does the subject. The subject is said to be a
very good telegraphist and also doos some work on radios for the
Lloyd Brasileiro Company.
Nothing of a derogatory nature is known concerning either the
subject or mombers of his family.
-46-

=== Page 483 === (confidence 0.98)
TAKEO GATO ALIAS TAKEO GOTO:
This subject who has also been observed to contact SUETAKA HAYAO,
is prescntly residin6 at Rua Tavares Bastos 21, casa 25, is married,
and has two sons, one of which is an Officer in the Brazilian Army.
he other son, HUgo, is a third year engineering student at Escola
olitecnica. The subject appears to be rather old and is not known
 be employed at the prosent time. Nothing of a derogatory nature
is lmown concerning him or any member of his family, but it has been
scortained that he is friendly with the following Japanese:
ATAKICHI LURATA, MIYOCHI MURATA and MASAMICHI MURAYAMA, al1 of whom
eside at Rua Tavaros Bastos 194. These individuals are the owners
of a grocery store locatod at Rua General Polidoro 174.
SOUTH AMERICAN COTTON COMPANY; KANALE NAKAYAMA NAKAYAMA:
The following information relative to the above named individual
and firm, which appears pertinent to the Brazilian investigation of
this case, was submitted by Source "A" under date of June 3, 1943:
"NAKAYAMA presently resides at Avenida Bulnes 80, Apartment 84,
Santiago. In addition to his position with this company, he is
reported as a representative of the Japanese firm YOYA MANKA KANISHA
LDTA. It is also know that although NAKAYAMA is married to NOBUKA
KOBAYASHI MIYANEHI, who left for Japan on ugust 18, 1941, he is
living with an unknown young woman recently arrived from Argentina,
who is believed to be his secretary. He is the holder of Brazilian
passport No. 016216 issued at São Paulo, Brazil, September 13, 1939.
NAKAYAMA left Kobe, Japan, on March 23, 1935, arrived in Rio de
Janeiro in June of the same year, left Santos, Brazil, on September
18, 1939, from where he journeyed to Santiago, Chile, via Buenos Aires,
arriving in October of the same year. His Japanese passport is
1No. 01286:
NAKAYAMA has made a special effort to ingratiate himself with
Chilean society, and to some extent has achieved success. He has
endeavored to develop friendships among important governmental and
army officials, and through these individuals he has been able to
photograph many important installations. It might be noted at this
point that NaKAYAMA is the owner of a complete set of very oxpensive
photographic equipment, which includes two of the best modern Leica
cameras.
NAKAYAMA, it is said, is the son of a wealthy Japanese who is a
membor of sovoral large Japanese industrial concerns in Japan, and it
is believed that because of type and volume of his contacts that he is
also charged with a portion of the litsui fund dispersals through the
-47-

=== Page 484 === (confidence 0.98)
Japanese Consulate. NAKAYAMA has never hesitated to boast of his
former affiliation with the Japanese Arny as a Captain and his
speciality as a commercial draftsman artist. He is known, however,
to be somewhat contemptuous of his fellow Japanese employees in the
company, who, it is stated, treat this individual with considerable
respect.
During February of 1940 NAKAYAliA began to assemble aerial
chotographs of the Chilean coastal regions, with particular attention
to terrain details. It is known that he endeavored at that time to
amass a collection of these photographs which it was believed he
obtained from the Linea Aerea Macional, the Chilean Air Line.
NAKAYAMA's interests, however, oxtend to other subjects, and it
is roliably roportod that as an expert draftsman ho has made accurate
maps of the coal mine districts of the south of Chile. In addition,
reputedly, he has made a completo study of coal and coppor mining in
Chile. Ho has stated that his invostigations and intorost in these
matters were prompted by his ultimato intontion of forming a largo
scale Japanesc Chilean firm to exploit thoso minos in Chile.
During the period that GORO IYAsAliI acted as Manager of the
Company, it appeared that NAkaYAlA served more or less as his private
secretary and intimate friend, travelling, in the same general social
circles. It is Imown that in addition to receiving sulary payments in
Santiago, Nakayama, in the position of being an agent of the South
American Cotton Company of Dallas and Santiago received his May and
June, 1941, salary tota1ling 312.00 dollars, through the São Paulo,
Brazil, office of the company. The correspondence forwarding this
payment, copies of which were furnished to New York and Dallas, stated
that NAkAYAiiA's liay salary had been paid by the Osaka main office in
Japan, but that future salary would come from the New York Office at
the rate of 1.56 dollars per month. It is to be noted that a letter
from the São Paulo office dated Hay 19, 1941, advised the Santiago
office that separate from the salary quostion the São Paulo office desired
to know why the Santiago office requested 40,000 dollars or 50,00u
dollars from a circulating fund mainteinod in the Dallas office. The
inquiry requestod that the withdrawal would depend on how and when it
was to be repaid, and who was to receive it.
NAKAYAMA is doscribod as follows:
Ago
28 years
Height
1.66 meters
Woight
132 pounds
Glassos
Light rimmed spectacles
Build
Wiry, slender
Charactoristics
Jalks vory rapidly, drosses
fastidiously."
-48-

=== Page 485 === (confidence 0.97)
named companios and thoir branches, corrospondence was found sunt from
the São Paulo offico of tho South Amorican Cotton Company to the
Santiago agonts in the Compania Chilena Oriental, advising thom that
thuy would bo listod on tho "Japanose Division" and in the future would
receive their salaries fron the main office. Other such correspondence
lirected from the same office to Buenos Aires as well as Santiago
noted that the São Paulo Office had been disbursing large sums to
agents, and since part of the money had come from Osaka, Japan, it was
requested that the agents sulnit an account showing distribution of
the funds and what remained. Further, a communication was found from
OZ..SA to one MITSUZO HOSHIKUMA, Personnel Lanager of the Toyo Cotton
and to SEIJIRO SHIMA, Manager of tho South American Cotton Company,
complaining of the fact that the Santiago "agonts" had not received a
raise dospite the fact that he had becn vith the company for two years
and that NAkAYAl A had beon with thom a year and a haif."
- 49 •

=== Page 486 === (confidence 0.97)
Federal Bureau of Inuestigation
MehTStatea Department of Justice
REOEIVMashindton, D. G.
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
DCiz
JAN 2 11944
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
In reply, please
refer to 64-20032
DIVISION OF
Date:
January
211944
MR. BFRLE
To:
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
894.20210/230
From:
J. Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject:
JAPSA CASE
229
Reference is made to the recent communication from this office re-
garding the above captioned subject with which you were furnished a memorandum
covering a summary of the information gathered to date at Rio de Janeiro.
It will be remembered that this case involves Japanese espionage
agents who use the dover of various commercial houses throughout Latin America
principally the Soythern Cotton Company.
As of possible further interest to you there is hereto attached a
memorandum covering the information presently in the possession of this
Bureau concerning the operation of the Southern Cotton Company and others
in Lima, Peru. It is to be noted that Akira Uesugi, who is mentioned on
page six of the memorandum as having entered Peru, October of 1941, was
accused of being a commercial spy. He was deported from Peru on June 16,
1942 and was subsequently repatriated to Japan having left Jersey City,
New Jersey on September 2, 1943 aboard the "SS Gripsholm."
The information contained in the memorandum has been obtained from
confidential reliable sources and has been made available to the Military
Attache, the Naval Attache, and the United States Embassy at Lima, Peru,
as well as the American Embassies in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, Santiago, Chile,
JAN 2 41944
La Paz, Bolivia and Buenos Aires, Argentina.
FILED
Enclosure
Confidential File
R
cc - Director, Naval Intelligence
S
Navy Department, Washington, D. C.
JAN 2 1 1944
cc - Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
War Department, Washington, D. C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FORYICTORY
Attention: Colonel L. R. Forney

=== Page 487 === (confidence 0.97)
January 21944
Limm, Poru
RE: "JAPSA CASE"
On December 8, 1 41, the Peruvian Government froze all
Japanese funds in Peru. However, it was not until Jantary 24, 1942
at the conference in Rio de Janeiro that the Peruvian dvernment
saw fit to freeze the funds of the remainder of the Axis Wationals.
Law No.9577, passed Larch :, 1942, gave to the President er Peru
the supreme power to expropriate all businesses and properties of
Axis Nationals. This law was general in nature and was superceded
by Law No.9586 on April 10, 1942. lHowever, inammuoh as this
latter law was not published until April 13, 1942, the Axis Matiomals
had three days to arrange the transfer of funds and the withareval
of sums of money so as to alleviate total or material loss of their
interests. This law provided for just appraisal, type of sale,
wanner of advertising, and also stated that titlo to instant
businesses or properties could pass only to native born Peruvians.
The Superintendency of Economy was named by the Govermmen
to handle the liquidation of xis interests. Thus it is interes
to note that the firms disoussed in this report have been liquie
by the Peruvian Government in accordance with the Expropriatéon L
It is also interesti. to note that the Japanese Espione
system in Peru was severely struined by the repatriation and
deportation policies adopted by the Feruvian Government in
cooperation with the United States, whereby hundreds of Japanese
have departed from Peru via United States Army Transports.
SOUTHER COTTON COMPANY, S. A., (PrOolaimd Limt)
The Southern Cotton Company, S.A., Mdirisio Royal so4,
Ayacucho 309, Lima, Peru, was a MITsUI organisation representing
TOYO LENKA KAISHA, Ltda. and was formod May 8, 194O with a
capital of 100,000 soles (approximately $16,000 U.8.), represemt
by one hundred registered shares fully paid up, sixty by Tamuo
DAIKO Y CHLADANI, and Forty by GORO MORI Y MOCHIZUKE, both Jap-
anese subjects. The Board of Directors provided in this
organizational documert consists of the above two stoekholders and
HUGO E. GRAU (P.L.).
MR. ENRIQUE BUNSEN FLORES, former Cashier of the
Southern Cotton Company, S.A. has stated that the eetual owmers
of the firm were TATBUO DAIKO and SEIJIRO BHImA, both of wAom
-1-

=== Page 488 === (confidence 0.97)
apanese Nationals who have returned to Japan, DaIko from Peru
and SHIlu. from his former residence in Sao Paulo, Brazil.
The Investigative Section of the Superinte.donoy of
Eoonomy stutes that tue owners of the Southern Cotton Company
S.A., are TATUO D.I.O and GOnO LOKI, and that SEIJIRO SHIA and
SiGOho NuB ITsU acted as bankers for the company, all four of
whom have returned to Japan.
There is set forth bolow a list of employees of the
Southern Cotton Company, S.A., together with directors of the
company as obtained from the tax return submitted to the Peruvian
Tax Collector dated January 29, 1942. It appears that TArsUo
DAIKO, SANGORO NOBUMITSU and JÍRO HINOIZU, constituted the last
Board of Directors of the conpany.
Employees
Annual Salary
CARLOS DAVIES MACDONALD
4,775.00
ENRILUE BUNSE: L RLS
4,175.00
NARAO TVIMOTO
2,000.00
RIKUHEI .ILOTO
2,450.00
JOSE VIDAL UIRLAGA
2,100.00
BLANCA ISABEL SLLINRIO
1,500.00
ISABEL FUKUY
1,000.00
CLOTILUE ALLANDOS
450.00
JORGE OUCHIDA
600.00
ARTURO BUNSEN
300.00
Directors
Annual Salary
TATSUO DAIKO
18,000.00
SANGORO NOBULLITSU
15,600.00
JIRO HINOLIZU
14,400.00
Lawyer
DR. ALBERTO UESADA
1,600.00
On Maroh 31, 1942, before Leaving Peru, TATsU0 DAIKO
executed a Power of Attorney to NAkATARo ARAY by whioh instrument
ARAr was constituted a direotor of the company with rull power to
vote, transfer and otherwise deal with Dalko's shares.
-2-

=== Page 489 === (confidence 0.98)
The Superintendency of Economy, Peruvian Ageney to
Aminister Japanese Property, appointed an interventor for the Southerm
Cotton Company, S.A., who has proceeded to liquidate the remaiming
assets of the company. Except for the liquidation operations,
the Southern Cotton Company ceased to do business in Deeember, 1941
and no longer aintains an office in Peru.
It should be stated that TATSUO DAIKO, SANGORO NOBUMITSU,
former directors of SOUTHERN COTTON CO.,S.A. were voluntary
deportees to the United States aboard the SS. ETOLIN which em-
barked from Callao, Peru, April 4, 1942. The records of the
Peruvian Superintendency of Economy reflect that SEIJIRO SHIMA,
one of the former bankers of the firm, returned to Japan from his
former residence in Sao Paulo, Brazil. These records further show
that GORO MORI also returned to Japan. Thus all the Former Jap-
anese Directors of the SOUTHER COTTON ClANY,S.A., Lima, Peru,
have returned to their native country with the possible exception
of JIRo HINOl.IzU, who was one of the members of the last Board of
Directors. HUGO EBEhlH.RD CRAU who was a former director was a
German merohant in Lima who was supposed to be deported from Peru
on the steamships ETOLIN, ARCADIA and SHAwNEE, but sucoessfully
avoided deportation and escaped tirough Chile tc Buenos Aires
where he is allegedly working as a technioal advisor for the
STAUDT firm in Buenos Aires. It has been reported GRAU went from
Poru to Chile on August 1, 1942 on an undetermined mission with
185,000 soles. Attention is called to the fact that on March 31,
1942 TATSU0 DAIK0, before leaving Peru, executed a Power of
Attorney to NAKATARO ARAY by which instrument ARAY was constituted
a Direotor of the company with full power to vote, transfer and
otherwise act as a Director.
NAhATARO ARAY, kmilio Althaus 586, Lima, was the
Prosident or Sociedad gricola Retes, Ltda., one of the most
powerful Japanese firms in Peru. He has been in Peru more than
n5 years during which period he has taken a leading part in all of
the activities of the Japanese colony. He was a momber of the
founders committee of the JAPANESE CKNTRAL SOCIETY, and was its
treasurer in 1923. In 194l he was treasurer of the FEDERATION OF
JAPANESE ASSOCIATIONS and has served in numerous other capacities.
ARaY's name appeared constantly in the Japanese press in Lima in
connection with the organizations and enterprises of the Japanese
colony. Aithough previously recommended for expulsion, he is
still in Peru and his activities are presently under investigation.

=== Page 490 === (confidence 0.95)
In a disposition given to the Peruvian Superintendemey
Zeonomy, AkaY stated he was naturalized as a Peruvian in l9ms,
Athough he was born in Japan. ie claimed to have no conneetion with
the SOUTH. COTTO C NY,  except tht TATSUO DAIKO 
him a Power or Attorney dateu Larch 31, 1942, to represent his
shares in the company und e ,urther states Daiko told him orally
to colleot from CAhLos i. VIS, an eaployee, 11,0oo soles and 
stron box belonging to the company valued at 1,000 soles.
A chook of the deportation records reflect RIkUHI
ikImoTo an employee of the Southern cotton Company, S.A. set out
above, as an employee was deported by the eruvlun covernuent on
the S. SluE June 10, 1942.
An examination of the available omployment rorms of the
Southern cotton company of : eru Ierlect the following Information
in recard to tue employees:
NRI UA BUNSEN (FL), Is a cruvian citizo 3u years of ago,
married, residing at Enilio Althuus 831, Lima. ic entered the
amploymont of the Soutrein cotton company on  ay 1, l940, as
cashier and was paid the salary of 3o0 soles monthly. lie is
married und the father of four cnildren.
IsAbkL FUkUI, is a reruvian citizen 19 years of age, single, re-
Iding at Calle oneral lo65. She began her employment with the
Southorn Cotton Company, ay 1, 1940, at the salary of 80 moles
por month.
NARAO TANIMOTO. Japanese citizen 37 years of ge, married, resiaing
at Talala 378, Lima. He began his employment with the Southern
Cotton Company may 1, 1940 as a salemman and was paid 250 soles
monthly. e is arried and the father of two ohildren.
CARLOS DAVIES (MAC DONALD). 1s a chilean citizen, 30 year of age,
married, residing at Pasaje honald, third floor, in Callao. He
began his employment with the Southern Cotton Company, May 16, 1940
in the Seccion Embarques, and was paid the salary of s50 soles per
month. lie is married and the father of a daughter.
BLANCA ISABEL SEMINARIO (V RGAS), Peruvian c1tizen, single, 19 years
of mge, residing at Anoash 53o, Lima. She began her employment with
Southern Cotton Company as a stenographer, December 16, 1940, and
was paid a monthly salary of 120 soles.

=== Page 491 === (confidence 0.97)
GE KADZUO OUCHIDA. is a Peruvian citizon 21 years of age,
ngle, residing at Calle Marañon 267. No other information is
reflected on his personnel form.
ASSETC OF SOUTHERN COTTON CON ANY, S.A.
Sowrce C advised the most important physical asset of
the Southern Cotton Company, S.A. on Dece.ber 8, 1941, whon
Jupanese properties 1e frozen, consisted of 7,609.39 quintal
of cotton which Lad been maintalned in storuie until turned over
by the Superintendency of bconomy to the Bar co cricola del Poru
to be sold. At the tice of the last roport, 3,oo0 quintals had
been sold at 11s soles per uintal, und 2, o0o ut 1l soles. Tho
proceeds of these operations were deposited i. a frozen account
under the control of the superintendent of the conpany.
The records of the Southern Cotton Company, S.A. dis-
close an ag regute of 3,497,851.19 soles worth of cotton shipped
to Japan for whioh uhe Local ca, any has not been paid. It is
interesting to observe that the shipments up to August, 1941, were
invoiced in dollars, whereus snipments involved thereufter, were
irvoiced in Yen. This change in financing may be related to the
freezing of Japanese assets in the United States. It is also to be
observed that a shipment to Japan in November, l94l, invoioed at
1,005,415.11 soles is not inoluded among the unpaid shipmonts,
although other cotton shipments as early as April, 1941, do appear
to bo unpuid.
Another possible olaim is indicated by certain unexplained
transactions vetween the Southern Cotton Company, S.A., and Y.S.B.
which probably refers to the YOKAHAkA SrECIE BANk, holder of frozon
assets in Peru in excess of 2,000,000 soles. The trial balance
of July, 31, l941, and August 31, disolosed a decrease in the bank
accounts of the Southorn Cotton Company, S... from 1,821,225.98 to
85,625.85 soles. The Suspense Aocount on August 31, 1941, discloses
the transfer during August, 1.41 or 1,486,700.00 soles from the
bank acoounts of the Southern Cotton Company to the Yokahama
Specie Bank and the Accounts l'ayable In August 31, 1941 includes
an item of 300,000 soles due the Banco Italiano, desoribed as
"Advance by order and for the acoount or Y.S.B." Neither of these
items appear in the Suspense Account or Accounts Payable of
September 30, l94l and it would therefore appear that they were
liquidated in some manner during September.
5

=== Page 492 === (confidence 0.94)
There are a number of other smaller assets sueh as
two promissory notes aggregating; 20,ooo soles of one AkIRA UmsuGI,
sometimes called ASANI UkSUGI, who was deported to the United
States in June, 1942, a clain of some 11,500 soles against
CARLOS G. AVIE, a forMer emplOyee of the SOUTHERN COTTON COMPANY,
S.n., und u nuaber of other small claims.
There are set out below two promissory notes made by
AKIkI UL UGI in favor of the Southorn Cotton Company, S.A. in
the sum of 10, J00 soles (1,542 U.S.) euch, dated Lima, Peru,
December , 1941 and arch 31, 1942.
"Vale a favor de la Southern Cotton Company, 3.A.,
por la suma de diez mil Soles oro (S/ 10,000.00)
que he recibido a mi entera satisfacción y que
me comprometo a devolver a la presentación del
presente docwnento.
Linna, 5 de diciembre de 1941
(SHAL)
/s/ A. UESUGI "
"Vale a favor de la Southern Cotton Company, S.A.,
por la suma de diez il soles oro (8% 10,000.00),
que nc recibido a mi entera satisfacción y que
re comprometo a devolver a la presentación del
presente documento.
Liima, 31 de Warzo de 1942.
(S)
/8/ A. UESUGI
Source A related AKIRA UESUGI, alias, MASAMI UESUGI,
Huallaga 307, Lim, was the traveling representative and in-
speotor of the Japanese steamship line, KAwASakI KIsn kAIsHA
(K Line). This firm was formorly represented in Peru by DUnCan
FOX & CO. Ltda.
Source b added tiat UEsuGI entered Peru in Ootober
l94l, and was acoused of being a commeroial spy. Ho was deported
on June 16, 1942, on the SS. SHAWNEE under the name UESUGI AKIRA
MASAMI.
The Balanee Sheet of the Southern Cotton Company, B.A.
of December 31, 194l, d1soloses a debt due the Bouthern Cottom
Company of Dallas, Texas in the sum of $582,960.18. It has beem
-6-

=== Page 493 === (confidence 0.96)
sed that this amount is ll2,752.10 less than the claim made by
me Dallas Company.
The opinion has been expressed by some Peruvian ofricials
that frozen ass: ts of uerman and Japanese individuals and antities
should not be rdeased for payment to creditors outside of Poru
until the termination of the war. The argument is advanoed that
Peru  ay be in the war before its termination and in any event
may have damage cluime a ainst the Axis wlich it might wish to
satisfy from these assets, leaving the individual owners of Axis
nationality to look to their own governments for compensation. So
far no definite or official position has been taken to this offeet.
Furtuermore, it is known that a number of outh Auerican Govern-
lments have taken over the froze assets of Axis nationala and
deposited  overnaent bonds i: lieu thereof. Should the govern-
Lent of 1eru take suchh a step they would considerubly complicate
the claiu of the Dallas company.
As previously set fortl except for the li uidation
operations the soUTHEn coTTo. cOlrY, S.. ceased to do busines
in Septeaber, l941, and no lon er aintains an offioe in Peru.
PARU : ENA BUSHIkI ISIL. (Proclaimed List)
Source A related PEkU .ENh. iBUSHIKI AISHA was a joint
stock company, organized in Tokyo, Japan, January 20, 1926. It
was an affiliate of kIcI kOGYO kABUSHIkI kAISli. and the Peruvian
representative of NIPPON MsNA AABUSHIKI kAISHA, of Osaka, Japan.
The capital of this organization amounted to Yen 1,O00,Ooo and
in the same year (1926) the Lima Branch Office opened with a
capital of Yen 200,000. Their investments in Peru are estimated
at more than 1,000,000 so1es (153,846 U.8.).
PkhU h. is an importing and exporting firm doaling
primarily in cotton and also other products inoluding copper.
Since they began to operate in Peru they leased the Important
hacienda "Pall'A" of Chancay, whose annual produotion amounted to
20,o00 quintals of cotton. This cotton was of good quality and
was exported to Jupan. In fact, their 1939 and 1940 crops were
exported in entirety to japan. Hacienda Palpa is owned by the
VIZ UERR. Estate, a reruvian family, and the lease in question
no longer exists. The records of Souroe C reflect this firm
imported 7,llo kilos of merohandise from Japan during the first
ten months of l94l. These 1mports, many of which were consigned
to the Banco Italiano, consisted of auto tires and tubes, canned
-7-

=== Page 494 === (confidence 0.96)
, cotton oloth and jute riber. During the first nine monthe
Or 1941, Peru Lenka exported 1,942,019 kilos or cotton to MIPPOm
MENKA K.BUSHIKI KAIShi of Osaka, Kobe and Yokahama, Japan; S0,400
kilos of leud to "order" at Yokahame, and 407,ll5 kilos of copper
to "order" at Osaka.
The recorde of Source C further show Peru  enka had a
large inVestment in "SINDICATO EXiLOTAD R DE SAYAPULLO, Ltda."
This orcanization nas been from its inception, a l'eruvian onter-
prise, the  ajority of the shareholders being such prominent
PerUVianS aS ALBERTO LVIDE, AGUSTO EAVIDES, HECTOR BOZA,
PEDRO DAVALOS y LISSO, ALFO: O LVAREZ (CALDERON) and FELIPE
ALVAREZ (CALDERON).
On January 20, 1940, the SI..DIcT0, represented by
AUGU TO VIDES SC, mde  contract with PERU NA KABUSHIKI
kAIsHA, represented by MOSUhs TA, unuer the terms of whioh the
property was rented to lhe Japanese for a inimu of five and a
maximua or twenty years. The terms of the contract called for
fixed payments of S% 1,Oo0 a month and royalty payments based upon
the quantities of ore which might be extracted and the prioes
obtainable for them in the market. The cancellation olause
provided that all rails, cuble ways, cars, buildings, and in
general any improvements of a fixed nature, would remain to the
benefit of the SINDIi ro without remuneration, and that on the
other hand the ieru .enka could remove without opposition its
machinery, motcrs, concentrators, dynamos, stocks, etc.
Peru mensa discontinued operations at the mine in June,
l942, and the document which was extended to cover the cessation
of work res erred to the application of Laws Nos. 9586 and 9598,
the latter, it will be recalied, having decreed the caneellation
of all contruots to which Japanose citizens were parties.
A now contraot between the SINDICATO and PERU MENKA
was drawn up on June 10, 1942, containing the conditions under
which the original contract would be canoelled. It provided for
the transfer to the Sindicato of all movable property located at
the mine, and a hydroeleotrio plant with all accossories and
installations whioh the Japanese had built there. The prroe
agreed upon for all the propertiee acquired by the sindicato was
S/.250,000 and the terms of payment whioh were stipulated to be
carried out under Law No.9586 were 8/.250,000 cash and s/.100,000
in May of eao year from l943 to 1946, inclusive. The entire
oash payment of S/.250,000 was turned over by the Superintendeney
8

=== Page 495 === (confidence 0.96)
Eoonomy to the Banco de Credito in payment of a debt of like
hount owed by the EkU ENkA to the said bank.
On August 10, 194l, the Peruvian Governmont issued a
decree prohibitiny the exportation of copper to Japan which made
it impossible for Eku EiiA to return the capital to the
original investors in Japan. Thus, on November 14, 1941, Poru
Menka addressed a plea to the reruvian inister of Finanoe
stating tey would invest approximately 1,000,000 soles in
perfectin: and outfittin the minin: smelters and requesting
permission. to export zoc tons of crude mineral or smelted copper
monthly to the ordei of the Japanese investors, which was the
ninimun quartit. l.ic. vould ive the cor, uny the necessary
money to continue operations. This plea was denied by the
Peruviun Government.
Source A nas reported that MOSABUIo OTA was the local
manuger or Peru menka. The reccrds of Source  reflected that
under the dute of Septenper 4, l42, the eric.n Consul General
in Guayaquil advised the Enbassy in Lina concerning the trans-
mission of a pachage fron a woman in Italy to ner brother in
Guayquil. Tne orctner, Sehor don OCTaVIo Ro. (CARBo), manager
of the Banco de irestaucs, confiaentially advised the Consul
General that he hud just received the package but finds no
indicution that it wus :ailed fro. Italy. The return address.on
the paokage was Señor LUIS F. LliTA (COUDY), Avenida Arequipa
1989, Lima.
The suggestion was ade by the Consul Genoral that
LuVaTA CoUDY might be cloaking und covering for totalitarian
agents and may have received this package via some diplomatic
pouch such as the Argentine or Chilean. It is noted in the Guia
Verde that avenida rrequipa l989 was the former address of
LOSABURO OTA, the fermer General Manager of Peru Lenka. The namo
of LUIS F. LuT. CoUDY does not appear in any of the Lima
Directories.
MOSABURO OTA was repatriated from Peru on the SS.
SHAWNEE in June, 1. 42. It wae reported OTA was a good friond of
JUAN BRTHELESS who was the former representative of the black
listed Japanese firm "TAIBo", Sociedad Anonima, Ediricio Royal
2l0, Lima, and upon whom a current subversive aotivities investi-
gation is being conducted. BaRTHELMEss was the recipient of a
letter cated January 26, 1943, postmarked Santiago, Chile with
the return address FERNANDO S. AHUMADA of Santiago purporting
to contain advice from the Japanese Minister in Chile to the
Japanese in Peru with regard to the forced transfer of their
business establishments.
-9-

=== Page 496 === (confidence 0.97)
Examination of the account books of the main offiee
PERU MENK. reflects that on December 5, 1942, a cable in
he amount of 6 soles and one centavo was sent to OTA in
Kenedy, Texas.
An exaination of the cash buoks of the SAGAPULLO
LInE Lude available by Source E reflects the following trans-
actions and notations of interest:
December 6, 1941:
Cash sent h. Kawachi
3/. 900.00 Salary
H. Sousa
250.00
M. Yoshimura
8,000.00
December 13, 1941:
Indemunization and Vacations:
L. GANDINI
s/. 500.00
R. TSUGAWA
400.00
C. H. NAGAI
250.00
R. SHIMIZU
150.00
L. SUEHIRO
150.00
December 20, 1941:
December Salary to:
M. YOSHLMURA
S/. 572.58
M. MOCHIZUKI
290.83
December 24, 1941:
Indemnization and Vacations:
R. TSUGAWA
8/.2,000.00
C. H. NAGAI
1,208.33
M. NAKAGANEKU
1,080.00
K. SEHIRO
750.00
R. SHIMIZU
537.50
M. LOPEZ
600.00
Dulx 30. 1918:
Mentions receipt of 3,500 soles from "Branoh Orriee" for
expenses of M. YOSHIMURA in preparation for trip.
-10-

=== Page 497 === (confidence 0.96)
In regard to the cash payment of 9oo soles listed as
salary payment to h. KAWACHI on December 6, 1942, 1t is
believed this individual is identical with KAZUO KAWACHI who
was repatriated on the SS. ACADIA from Callao, Apr1l 14, 1948.
It is noted that on December 6, 1941, a payment of
8,000 soles was made to . YOsHIlMURA; on December 20, 1941 a salary
payment of 572.58; and a further entry as of July 30, 1942 whioh
mentions receipt of 35o0 soles from the "Branoh Orrioe" for expenses
of L. YosiL.Uk in : reparation for a trip. There is another entry
as of June, 1942, wihich reflects 1,400 soles (200 U.8.) was paid
For trip of . MOCHIZUnI and M. YOśHILURA. YOSHIMURA was an
important ficure in Peru Lenia and held a power of attorney
legalized August 24, 1939, setting forth his ofricial duties. Ho
was repatriated on the Ss. Sliil.LE which sailed from Callao on
June 10, 1942.
On December 13, 1941, a salary payment of 150 soles was
Lde to R. SIILIZU. ROI.US.wUhU SHIMIZU was repatriated aboard
the SS. SlilsiiE which embarked from Callao June 16, 1942.
On December 20th the salary of 290.83 soles was paid to
.. L.OcnIZUki who was deported via Army Transport Plane to the
United Stutes on December 16, 1942. In June or 1942, a payment
of 1,300 soles (200 US.) was made for trip of M. MOCHIZUkI and
M. YOSHIMUKA.
LILI0 MOCHIZUkI was born January 29, 1911 at Yamanash1,
Japan. lie received 14 years schooling as an electrical engineer
and topographer in Japan. He came to Peru in 1931 with his
brother who is presently employed in a Lima grocery store. Upon
his arrival MIkIo MOCHIZUkI was employed by Peru Menka in Lima
and was later transferred to the Sayapullo Line, where it was his
job to make topographical maps at the time of his arrest on
November 15, 1942, and was believed to be a Japanese py. MochIzukI
appeared to be very intelligent and spoke four languages.
An entry in the books of the Commeroial Seotion of Peru
Menka dated June 30, 1942, regarding "expenses and preparation
of voyag• of SADAHIko IGUCHI" in the sum of 2,500 solos is of
interest. According to Source C IGUChI possessed a Power of
Attorney setting forth his duties, wh oh was legalized June 30,
1942. A cheok or the various deportation lists from Peru does not
reveal the name of IGUCHI. An entry in the Account Books of the
main ofrioe of Peru Menka dated December 14, 1942, informs that
payment to TRukU TAhaU of 3300 soles on "Aooount of Roceipt of
Feeding": T. SONE, T. TATOMI, and N. SENOH. On the 18th of
Desember, 1942 a payment 1n the amount of 3,000 soles was made to
TROKU TakAMU on account of "Receipt in preparation of Journey:"
of T. SONE, T. TATOMI and N. SNOH.
-11-

=== Page 498 === (confidence 0.96)
T. SONE, mentioned above, is 1dentical with TUTOMU SONE
o was born May 5, 19l0 at Schija, Japan, where he reeeived
ight years public scliool education. He came to Peru December 87,
1940 as an employee of Peru enka in the capacity of a cashier
and accountant. SonE stated he was able to leave Japan at this
time because he wan near sighted. sonE was among the Japanese
arrested by the Peiuvian Division of Investigation the latter
part of 1942 and hud In his possession a Japanese khaki uniform
which had been ade by vu ious Japanese tailore in Lima. Upon
interview in enedy, Texus, aiter his deportation, SonE admitted
obtainin a khaki "National r'opular Uniform" from the Japanese
tailor GSIcnI LUiu.T. on the speciric instructions of the Japanese
Consul in Lima, Lssit.I YoDsGisiA. lie advised a ciroular was
issued by the Japanese Consulate stating all Japanese who expeoted
to return to Japan were requested to obtain one of these uniforms.
SONE was deported from Peru via United States Army Transport plane
Decembor 16, 1942.
N. SENOH, Lentioned above, is NAONOBU SLNOn, who was
borl: December 5, 1907 at ToTT hIiEN, Japan. After his arrival in
Peru he was employed by the N/Y/r/ STEAlisi.II cOlJ ANY at a salary
of 400 soles. His address at the time he lived in Peru was
Lontero Rosas 1154 and he ossessed Alien Registration No.19327.
Se Oll stated that the lutional ropular Uniform was purchased in
July of 1942 inasmuoh as c conteaplated returning to Japan
and wished to have everything in order to serve his country upon
his arrival. It is interesting to note that in an interview
with SLioli in Lenedy, Texas, Sel.oh stated he had been employed
by the NY. Steanship Line and no mention was made of amployment.
with Peru Lenka, although it appears that Peru Menka paid TRokU
TklU certain sums of money for "feeding" and in "preparation of
voyuge" of SLNOH. Senoh was deported frou Peru via United States
Army transport plane December 16, 1942.
The records or Peru Menka further reflect a payment
on June 10, 1942 of 2,600 sole8 (400 U.S.) to J. KAWAKUB0 for
expenses of family's trip to Japan and a payment of 1,5o0 moles
for his own trip. JoHo luvikUBU, together with his wire and
five children were repatriated aboard the SS. SHawnrr which
embarkod from Callao, June 1, 1942.
Peru Menka habushiki kaisha is presently being liquidated
in accordanoe with Peruvian Law No.9586 regarding the expropriation
of Axis Nutionals interests in Peru.
-12-

=== Page 499 === (confidence 0.96)
SOCIEDAD AGRICOLA RETES. LTDA., (Proola1med List)
Sociedad cricola Retes, Ltda., Edificio Lineria 480,
Lima, Cotton growers and exporters, is one of the largost Jap-
anese firms in Peru. During the firat 8 months of 1941 this
firm. exported 479,940 kilos of cotton to C. IToH & co. of Kobe,
Japan; 152,176 kilos of cotton to .ITsUBIsiiI of hobe, Japan;
45,802 kilos to OkU.. of Yokalama; 74,183 kilos to LITSUBISHI SHOJI
K.K. or Darien. This firm also appeurs on the etal Export lists
as an important exporter to Jupan of vanadium ashes and other
inerals.
There is set 1orth velow a list of the employees of
Sooiedad grfcola Retes as well us the two subsidiary haciendas,
"Retes" and "La olina" to ether  ith thc salary or individuls
listed.
The name of IUJIi i ISiiI is not cet forth inasmuch as
he retired his position as Iresluent of the company on January
19, 1942 claimin: thut his pour health prevented him from con-
tinuing in this capacity. At an extraordinary ueeting of the
stockholders Dr.  D..  lBI. L. was elected the now
president. During Januuly of 1942 kIsliI also transferrod his hold-
Ing in the Sociedad ricola Retes und Compañia Deamotadora •
Industrial de uaral to DR. NcIBIA E., who was his lawyer and
a partner of the firm RNcIBI. y COlNEJO.
Employees of Sociedad ricola etes, Ltda.
December, 1941:
Direotor
NAKATARO ARAY
500.00 soles
EDU.RDO RIVERO
240.00
Contador
ALFONSO RIVERO
240.00
HUMBERTO JOLAY
50.00
n
OSWALDO LOMIZ
60.00
n
AQUILINO LAKABE
40.00
Chaurreur
EMILIO ASIN
110.00
As of October l943, the following individuals were em-
ployed by Sociedad Agricola Retes:
Direotor
NALATARO ARAY
500.00 soles
ALFONSO RIVERO
240.00
OSWALDO MOMIZ
240.00
-13-

=== Page 500 === (confidence 0.97)
ILAJILE LISHI, Coronel León Velarde 370, Lima, te1:10793,
Puvian Carnet Identidad No.13565, Peruvian Passport No.375,812
me to Peru from Japan on January 22, 1921 via the Japanses
teamship Liong Kong Maru. He journeyed to Japan on July 9, 1940,
via the Heizo Laru and returned to Peru, March 26, 194l aboard
the same ship. It is reported he received instructions from the
Japanese Government during his stay thcre in 194l. It is also
reported he has a high reserve staidin in the Japanese Army.
KISHI was born in Japan in 1885; is a Japanese citizen
of the Buddhist faith. ie is married to SHIZUE kISIlI and is the
father of four chil ren. He is a gruduate of the University of
Waseda. kIclI is known to be one of the .ain lawyers of the
Japanese colony in Peru. lic was one of the founders of the
Japanese school "Santa Beatriz de Lima" which is now closed and
in l936 was Chairman of the Physical Training Section of the
Japanese Central Society for Peru.
Source A related I.ISHI was one of the more prominent mom-
bers of Sociedad itricola Retes, Ltda. from its inception on
August 27, 1927. 1I01I owned 2,300 shares of this firm, the
authorized capital of  hich was 500,000 soles (77,000 U.S.) rep-
resented by 5,00 shares of 100 soles (16 U.S.) each. He was
also a prominent meber of "Sociedad Desmontadora e Industrial de
Huaral", owners and operators of a cotton gin and cotton seed
oil factory with a registered capital of 300,000 soles ($46,000)
(U.S.). This firm operates under the supervision and financial
assistance of Sociedad uricola Retes, Ltda, who are the registered
stockholders.
The entities Sociedud Agricola Retes, Ltda. Sociedad
Desmontadora e Industrial dc IHueral, as well as HAJIME kISHI,
are Inscribed on the British-Americun Statutory lists.
HAJ IE KISIII has been repeatedly rec mmended by the
American Embassy and the British Ministry for expulsion. Souroe
B advised at the time of the sailing of the SS. SHAWNkk, June 15,
1942, Dr. CARDENAS GARCIA, Director of Government stated that
KISHi had been guaranteed by an official of the Peruvian Govern-
ment and was not to be deported. A separate investigation is
bein; conducted into the activities of HAJIME KISHI.
-14-

=== Page 501 === (confidence 0.98)
NAKATARO ARAY is a naturalized Poruvian residing at
Althaus 586, Lima. His business address is Billinghurst 321,
Lima, tel:lOO72. ARAY is president of the SOCIEDAD AGRICOLA
RETES, LTDA. one of the most powerful Japanese firms in Peru.
He has been in Peru more than 25 years during whioh period he
has taken a leading part in all tie activities of the Japanese
colony. lHe was a member of the Founders Couaittee of the
Japanese Central Society; Treasurer of the Japanese Central
Society in 1923; Treasurer of the Federation of Japanese Assoc-
iations in 194l, and has served in numerous other oapacities.
ARiY's name appeared constantly in the Japanese press of Lima
in connectior with the organizations and enterprises of the
Japanese colony. In a book in Japanese containing biographical
sketclies of prominent Jupunese residents of Peru, ARaY is des-
oribed as a "pioneer on the Japanese businessmen in Peru".
Alruy's business interests are extensive. He has been lessee
of the Hacienda Larquez, located in a strategic position on the
coast at the mouth of the hiver Chillon.
He was recorale ded for sxpulsion aboard the SS. SliAwNkk
and SS. FIEDL. ICk J Jln.O.. by the United States Embassy and the
Division of Investi, ations, but anaged to evade deportation.
A list of irdividuuls employed at llacienda Retes is
first made available for the month of ay, 1942, and reflects
the followin: individuals employed at this date:
Honorio Conscjero
CHIZO HIDAKA
400 sole
Director
GENJI NIMURA
400
Administrator
AGUSTO LATSUDA
350
Administrator
CARLOS SALIHAS B.
200
Cashier
WASAKU ITO
170
Helper
AKIRA SAGAWA
130
Cook
TORAJI HASHDMOTO
70
Chauffeur
JUAN MOMIZ
60
n
Dootor
SANTIAGO MAGILL
40
-15-

=== Page 502 === (confidence 0.97)
In August of 1943, a payment of 400 soles was made
aENJI NIMURA and the sum of 250 soles was made to the adminis-
trator AGUSTO LATSUDA. There were more or less 70 employees at
this hacienda who received 12 soles weekly.
GENJI NIMURA, who is mentioned above as the Diroctor
of Hacienda Retes was reported by Source F as a naturalized
Peruvian of Japanese descent who was engaged in the spreading
of Japanese propaganda in the Chancay Valley.
In December, l94l, the "Planilla de Sueldos" of Hacionda
La Molina, Carabayllo, reflected the following individuals as
being employed:
Administrator
ROBERTO MURATA
230 soles
Cooks
RIC.RDO .OSHILA
70
n
JUAN J. OSHIGE
50
n
The last entry available in the account book reflected
a payment in November, 1942 of 250 soles to the Administrator,
ROBERTO MURITA.
Source C advised an examination of the books of
Sociedad gricola Retes reflected during the months of October
and November, l94l, there developed a brisk business representing
receipts of money from sundry Japanese for remittance to Japan.
This phenomenon was not present in anywhere near a like degree
in any other month. Some of these are as follows:
k. FUKUZAVA
7,200.00 Soles
JOSE H. SATO
1,808.00
n
JOSE i.. SATO
4,712.00
S. MARUYALA
1,064.00
n
KOKICHI SHIASAKA
3,040.00
JUNTARO MISHIZANA
1,520.00
KIZUKE KUZUMA
1,520.00
K. FUKUZAWA
4,602.00
S. YANAGISHI
1,520.00
9. YANAGISHI
152.00
S. KURIHARA
152.00
-16-

=== Page 503 === (confidence 0.97)
The Peruvian interventor S. BEZADA drew monthly
punts of more or less 1,250 soles and the company lawyer,
DR. ALEJANDRO AHANCIBLA, who was also President of the Board
ince the resignation of HAJIlE KISHI, received 1300 soles per
month, a00 soles as 1resident of the Board and 500 soles as
legal yetainer. Souroe A related through arrangements made with
LUIS ERI e HIJ0S, Luis Wilson 1064, tel: 32046, a Peruvian
Firm have assumed the assets und liabilities of Sociedad
Agpcola Retes in accordance with the Peruvian Laws regarding
ex ropriation of Axis Nationals' interests in Peru.
NONOLIYA SHOTEN. S.A. (Proclaimod List)
Souroe A advised that NONOLIYA SHOTEN, S.A.,JunÍn 312,
Lima, was an importing firm and wholesale dealer in drugs, chemioal
and pharmaoeutioal produots, patent modicines and like products.
In this connection they held the exclusive representution for sale
and distribution of products manufactured by importat Japanese
firus and were exporters of native medical produots.
NONL.IYA SliuTEN was a joint stock company established
January 21, 1939 w1th a registored and paid up capital of 253,000
soles (38,923.00 U.3.) represented by shares of 100 soles.each.
The business was originally founded in 19l7 by MOTOSo NONOMIYA
but was converted into a joint stock company on Jarnuary 21, 1939.
NONuLIYA, who is 56 years of a e, remained the largest stockholder.
After the formation of the joint stock company MoToso
NoNukIY. was named president. However, on April 15, 1942 he was
ropatriated from Peru aboard the SS. ACADIA. liis wife and sons
were removed to Japan before the war.
The directors of NONOkIYA SIHoTEN, S.A. as of January
1943 are: GISAKU TENYA, FAUSTO ALVAREZ (VILLA) and ALBERTO SUGAY.
GISAkU TENYA, Leon Velarde 316, Lima, Peruvian Carnet
No.21764 was born in Japan in 1896. He arrived in Peru, Maroh 14,
192l. No information Available reflecting he is engaged in sub-
versive activities.
The "Planilla de Sueldso" on NONOMIYA SHoTEN refleots
the folloving salaries paid January, 1943:
-17-

=== Page 504 === (confidence 0.95)
Directors:
GISAKU TENYA
225
Soles
FAUSTO ALVAREZ (VILLA)
130
ALBERTO SUGAY
100
Employees:
RICARDO MORLA (Cashior)
150
n
JOSE HERBAS V.
140
n
BERTA LARREA P.
120
n
LUIS T. ITO
100
n
ANTONIO YADA SOTO
150
n
ALICIA ALANCIVIA B.
60
n
ARMANDO VIDALON (ORE)
125
n
HARUELON OGUCHI
150
1"
AKL SIRAKAVA
170
n
JULIO RENAS G.
55
n
CARLOS SOTO
200
Chaurfour:
MANUEL SCILEZ
88
1n
It was noted that in hay through October, 1943, the
directors were paid as follows:
GISAKU TENYA
450
Soles
FAUSTO ALVAREZ (VILLA)
260
11
ALBERTO SUGAY
200
n
The Balance Sheet as of January 1, 1942 of NONOMIYA
SHOTEN, S.A., reflects assets as follows:
Credits:
Stooks
41,062.50 Soles
Cash
1,650.56
Cash in Banco Aleman
116.46
Cash in Banoo Popular
1,116.95
Cash in Banco Popular, A0count "A".5,368.94
Cash in National City Bank
57.34
Trucks
7,260.00
Accounts Current (Receivable)
48,200.04
Long Torm Aocount Reoeivable
or Commeroial Paper
48,910.88
Banoo Italiano CTA COB
88,132.33
Banoo POpular CTA COB
3,400.97
Merchandise
517,649.62
Furniture & Fixtures
3.110.00
Total assets
110.088.86
soles

=== Page 505 === (confidence 0.97)
ii
Banco Italiano (Account Current)
7,857.56 8oles
Banoo Italianc (Guaranty Account)
22,813.61
Capital
253,000.00
Accounts Payable in city
7,439.42
Acoounts Payable abroad
19,387.80
Dividend layable
12,650.00
Employees Fund
12,270.00
Reserve Fund
6,464.39
Promissory Notes
131,647.05
Promissory Notes (Dollars)
31,886.47
Promissory Notes (Swiss Francs)
590.87
Shinogi & Cia.
4.019.42
Total Liabilities
510,026.59 Soles
NONOMIYA SH TEN, S.A., has been liquidated in accordanee
with Peruvian Law No.9586 regarding the expropriation of Axis
Nationals interests and is now in the hands of Peruvian citizens.
-19-

=== Page 506 === (confidence 0.94)
RPA
UCYRIMIN!  SIAIL
ARA Gat
APR 20 1944
United States Department of Justire
Amx
2
Dc
REOEIVED
Date:
DIVIS
In reply, please refer to
To:
Honorable Adoaf A. Berle,
file No. 64-3808-B-11(50H)
From:
J. Edgar Hoover - Direoter, Federal Bureau of Investigation
8
6
A
Subject: Movements of Japanese between Uruguay and Argentina
efe
20210/231
On the basis of allegations recently received to the effect that Japanese
20210
nationals were engaged in extensive travel between Uruguay and Argentina, inquiries
were instituted to determine the truth or falsity of the allegations.
In this connection there is transmitted herewith a copy of a report
reflecting the results of the investigation in connection with this matter. The
attached information was furnished by a confidential source and has:been made
available to the Military Attaches, the Naval Attaches, and the American Embassies
onfide
in Montevideo, Uruguay, and Buenos Aires, Argentina.
2
C
cc - Director of Naval Intelligence
Navy Department, Washington, D. C.
RYICTORY
cc - Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
PS/HS
BUY
War Department, Washington, D. C.
181944
UNITER
STATES
WAR
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
APR 2 6 1944
Attachment
DEPUTY DIRECTOR
Department of State

=== Page 507 === (confidence 0.92)
s ef Japaness Betveen Urugaxy
atevideo, Uruguay
ATSUMI SEISHO (ZISMMPEI, true name), aliaS, ANTONIO, Was a chauffeur for
 DLGaDO, located at Rambla O'Kiggins 6435. For the past two and one half years he
has been in the flower business with MISHAGAWA KARAICHI at the "Quinta de los Japomeses".
MISHAGAWA was intervieved by source A and advised that he knew of no Japanese
is Mostevideo who were doing anything other than working and attempting to live without
baving any trouble from the local amthorities. Source A was invited inte the house to
bserve a radio, which was only a small receiving set.
At the flover market souree A inquired as to ATsUMI and was informed that
AtsUMI always states that he is Chinese and does not desire to be known as a Japanese.
No information of a derogatory nature was secured.
Sourse A intervieved ArsumI who advised that be came to Uruguay in Febreary 1932
and that he has been werking at flower cul ture most ef the time sinee his arrival in
Uruguay. He informed that he worked for Dr. DELGAno from 1939 to mid-pear l941 and that
he sawed sufficient funds to so into partmership with MIshkGkwa in the flewer busimess.
He stated that his only desire is to besome an Uruguayan citisen and that he has me
relation or interest in Japan. He advised that the oaly trips he has made to Busmes Aire
23
since lg41 have been one trip each year te visit friemds in the flewer basiness.
Source A interviewed Dr. DELGAnO who advised that ATsUMI was his cheaffeur fer
two or three years: that AtsUMI was always having accidents and for this reasen was me
good as a servant. He stated, however, that ATsuMI had always appeared to be unobjectiem
able in svery way and in his opinion had never been engaged in political aotivity.
IAMAMATO HISAO
Source A advised that the address of YAMaMaro HIsaO is Camino Vecinal 5014
La 1939. s0 came to Busnos Aires from Japam in 1929, te Uruguay in 1932 mhese he
er Germany and that he belongs to no alabe er asseciations. He also advised that he
kmews of no relationships between any Urugaayan, Japanese and Germeas in Nenteyidee.
2
HISHAGAVA KABAI CHI
deregatory iafemation vae obtaiaed. Souree A vas farther waakle to develep any dene
tnformetien after nakiag a nsighberheed investigatien.
-2

=== Page 508 === (confidence 0.96)
TAKATA NAOKI
This subject lives at the "Quinte Japonesa". has four chilåren, two born in
pam ind two in Pera. When interviowed subjeet advised that he knew nothing as to the war
Fffert of Japan and cared less: that he had boen called before the cosmittee Investigating
Anti-mitional Activities and had been cleared by that group. He advised that he has lived
in Wruguay about six years, before that in Brasil six years and prior to that in Peru
nine yěars.
UI KANZO
JUKIE TUSIRO, wife of above subjeot, advised that he is now living in Buenos
Aires at Estacion Don Tarouato, thst he had made several trips to Montevideo for the
purpose of securing a divorce from her. She advised that she had no information te indicate
that u KAnzo is engaging in subversive activity.
HOMAMURE KHISABURO
None of the subjects questioned were able to 1dentify HOMAMURE KEISABo.
SUZUKI DAHXI
DAHEI lives at Camino Casavalle 5050. Souree B advised that DanXI used te be
in the flower business at the "Quinta Japonesa", but now has his own mereage in the
Department of Canelones. No derogatery information was obtained in the meighbesheed
investigation and mone of the subjects questioned were able to give aay infermatien
regarding DAHEI.

=== Page 509 === (confidence 0.94)
Ut V.NF
CONFIDENTIAL
MESSENGER
Rt
Hnifan States Department of Austice
DEPA
JUN
Mashington,. C.
please
194kefef to
64-20032
Date:
MAT
ROBLEM
Dce
DIVISION
8
To:
Honorable Adolf A. Beple, Jr.
MR
BERLE
6
Assistant Seoretary of State
JUN 9 1944
4
From:
WEAN
894.202
02
Subject:
JAPSA CASE
0
With further reference to the captioned matter there is transmitted
herewith a copy of a report reflecting additional data regarding various in-
2
dividuals in Bogota, Colombia. Most of the individuals involved have departed
from Colombia, however, Tatekawa and Doku are presently residing in Colombia
W
and investigation concerning their activities is continuing.
2
The attached information was furnished by a confidential source and
is generally believed to be reliable. This information is available to the 
American Embassies at Santiago, Chile, Buenos Aires, Argentina, Quito, Ecuadar,
and Bogota, Colombia.
Enclosure
2.2
lential
cC
Director of Naval Intelligence
CO
PORYICTORY
Navy Department, Washington, D. C.
P
BUY
elye
IS
UNITED
Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
STATES
WAR
BONDS
War Department, Washington, D. C.
MAY 271944
HS
Attention: Colonel L. R. Forney
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 510 === (confidence 0.97)
Bogotá, Colombia
RB: JAPSA CASE
Information has been recelved which indicates the
"JAPSA" Espionage Ring has been operating in South America
principally through the Japanese Embassy at Santiago, Chile.
It has been reported that this Fspionage Ring flourished openly
until the break of relations in Chile 1n January, 1942. 1t
has been reported that the Compania Chilena Oriental, operating
in Santiago, Chile, gathered espionsge and commerclal information
throughout South America for the Japanese Government. It is
known that the Compania Chilena Oriental communicated with the
Japan-Colombia Trading Company of Bogotá, Colombia.
Reliable Source A reported that the Japan-Colombia
9420
Trading Company, as such, was not registered under this name
with the Chamber of Commerce at Bogotá, Colombia. This souree
reported that he had received information that the following
named Japanese companies operated in Colombia, namely: Nipon
Trade Ageney, Ageneia Comercial Japonesa, and the Japan-Colombia
R0
Trading Company and that information he had received was to the
effect that the Japan-Colombia Trading Company was a name used
by the Nipon Trade Ageney. This same source reported that one
232
SHI NI CHI SUGANAMI OKUMURA was the head of the a ove montioned
Japanese companies.
SHI NICHI SUGANAMI OKUMURA was registered at the National
Police, Bogotá, Colombia, and has Prontuario l02a3. He first
came to Colombia from Baiboa, Canal Zone, 1n 192s, arriving 1n
Barranquilla, Colombia on the Ss Santa Rita. In Barranquilla he
was g1 ven Cedula de Extranjeriá No. 1-173, dated Jume 18, 1928.
SUGANAMI is married ahd professed the Budhist religiom.
He claimed he came to Colombia to study the commereial activities
of this country. SUGANAMI returned to Japan in 1929 and again
came to Colombia on October 4, l929, traveling on a passport
1ssued by the Ministry of Foreign Relations of Japan and visaed
by the Colombian Consul at Yokohama, Japan.
Source A reported that SUGAnAMI came to Colombia for
the purpose of organising a company under the name of the Mipen
Trade Ageney and for this purpese had a capital er $so, 0oo (U..).
He epened an offiee in Bogotå fer the purpese ef selling Japameme
merehandise as well as to buy preducts im Celembia fer shipmomt
to Japam. This souree advised that SuGAßamI's activities were
very suspleious inasmuch as he seld little and fer a peried ef
time bought no produets to be shipped te Japan.

=== Page 511 === (confidence 0.97)
Source A described SUGANAMI as a very intelligent and
clever individual who appeared to be extremely well edueated.
SUGANAMI returned to Japan in 1933, thereafter returning to
Colombia the second time. Upon his second arrival in Bogota,
he opened an office in Edificio La olsa, No. 60l, under the
name of the Wipon Trading Agency. This office was also known
as the Japan-Colombia Trading (ompany, as well as the Ageneia
Comercial Japonesa.
While in Colombia, SU3ANAMi also represented a Japanese
semi-official firm by the name of "Boyeki Kumiai Chuokai Del Japon".
pon the latter trip of s GANAMI to Colombia he ls reported to
have arrived with two Japanese Government employees named KATUJIRO
BANDO OKADA and KEIZO YASUMA SEO. The latter tWwo 1ndiv1duals are
reported to be confidential agents of SUGANAMI. They are reported
by Source A to have worked directly with the Japanese Government
for the firms called "Asoelacion Contral Del Comercio Exterior
Del Japon" and "Boyeki Kumia1 Chuoka1".
Source A reported that his investigation 1ndicated that
all tiree individuals were to form a Japanese Chamber of Commerce
1n Colombia and they also had in mind the exploitation of copper
mines and in the event the copper mines produced they were to
ship the copper to Japan.
The same souree reported that Senor Don EDUARDo OPEZ
FUMAREJO attempted to sell the three indi viduals a copper mine for
exploitation but insofar as he knew this deal did not o through.
Source A reported that 1n 1939 the three 1ndividuals
were very interested in buying all of the sorap iron that they
could find in Colombia and ship 1t to Japan and Germany. Souree
A reported that during the years between 1933 and 1942, 8U0ANA1
made many trips throughout Colombia.
According to Souree A one KOICHI OGAwAH, a Japanese,
was also a very close friend and confidant of the three individuals
heretofere mentioned. OGAwAH 1s reported to have resided in
Barranquilla during the time he was in Colombia.
Wi th further referenee to KATUJIRO BANDO OKADA, Source A
advised that he was in possession of Prontuario Ne. lo973 and
arrived in Colombia for the first time in Mareh, 1939, bearing
Passport No. 35654s, dated February 8, 1939. This Passport was
issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan in Tokie and
visaed by the Legation of Colombia in Tokio on February 21, 193s.
-2

=== Page 512 === (confidence 0.97)
Source A reported that the mission of BAN O, who was
an official of the Japanese overnment, was to work in the interest
of the Japanese firm called "Boyeki Kuimmo Chuokai" of Tokio, Japan.
According to Source A it is well known that SUGANAMI, as
well as BANno came to Colombia to work for the Japanese Government
and that these two individuals purchased scrap iron for shipment
to Japan.
Source A also reported that BANI) made many tri ps through-
out (olombia during his stay in Colombia.
w1th reference to KElZ0 YASUMA SEO, Source A reported
that this 1ndi vidual had Prontuario #1l179 and traveled on
D1plomat1c passport #341307, dated February 21, 1937 and issued
by the Ministry of Foreign Kelations of Japan, and was visaed by
the Legation of Colombia in Tokio as an official passport. Souree A
reported that this individual arrived in Colombia in November, 1937.
YASUMA claims to be married and is by religion a Budhist.
He claimed to have as his professlon that of being a representative.
Source A reported that YASUMA had made one trip to Japan
since his arrival and that he arrived the second time in colombia
in 1939. This same source reported that YASUMA was a very active
man and worked closely with SuGAnAmI in buying serap 1ron and
shipping the scrap iron to Japan. It is also known that YAsUMA
made many trips throughout Colombia.
Source A reported that he had made a seareh at the All
America Cable Company as well as Mareoni in an effort to locate
cables which emanated from the offices of SUGANAMI but this seareh
was negati ve.
Souree A further reported that when SuGAnAMI arrived in
Colombia, he gave as references, OTTO MANGELS, ALFREDO ROBEHEIN
PERALTA and three other individuals. (It might be stated that both
MANGELS and PERALTA are known to be leading Nasis in Colombia.)
Souree A also reported thate Japanese by the name of
KOSUKE SASAKI KOBAYASHI, Prontuario #18-13 C.T. was another Japanese
who closely assoeiated with SUGANAMI in the latter's activities.
He reported that KOBAYAsHI arrived 1n Celombia fer the first time
on Nevember 11, 1937 bearing Japamese Passpert 0341304, dated
September 21, l9s7 and 1sswed by the Mimistry of Fereign Relations
in Tekie, Japan. This Passpert was in character ofricial.
-3-

=== Page 513 === (confidence 0.96)
£0BAYASHI was born 1n Japan on July 3, 1895, 1s
married and his religion is that of a Budhist. He came to Colombia
on a special commercial mission for the Japanese Government and,
Source A re orted, was a irect representative of the Japanese
Government. His activities in Colombia are re orted to be very
limited and it 1s be ieved that he departed from Colombia for
uito, Ecuador on November 29, 1937. Source A reported that this
individual 1s poss:bly in Chile or Agentina at the present time.
Source A made available to this office an exact copy of
a document from the Legation of Ja an, which reads as follows:
"REE: FHI NC SLJANAM
"The undersigned 1s in charge of Japanese business in colombia, and:
"CERTIFItS - that Shinichi Suganami, a Japanese subject, resident
of this ci ty, 1s the agent of the NI PON TRADE AGENCY, (AGENCIA
COMERCIAL DEL JAPON), at the request of the 1nterested party,
this paper 1s issued, 1n the city of Bogota, on the 22 day of the
month of June, 1939, to be used in any manner necessary.
(signed by) F. MI NODA
ENCARGALO DE NEGOCIOS ULL JAPON
(1n charge of Japanese business)"
Source A also made available to this office the following
letter, which is quoted as followe:
"Tokyo, Japan, March 15, 1939 - #18
CONCERNING TRIP ANI ACTI VITIES OF
3 JAFANESE
"Doctor Luis Lopez de Mesa,
Minister of Foreign Relations,
Bogota, Colombia.
Senor Minister:-
At the direction of the Police 1 sent the certificates
of vise in the passports of KEIZO YASUMA, KATUJIRO BANDO, and
SHI NI CHE SUGANAMI, vises are made in the name of the Consul Gomeral
of Yokohame, in the month of September, For your use, I am sending
to you in this envelope, copies of the said certificates of vise
1n whieh you will find the partieulars coneerning these three
Japanese mentioned. The first two had to make a customs depesit
of $800.00, according to Deoree No. 1723, of September, 1938. Senor
Suganami was exempted from this deposit, in accerdance with arsiele 1
Decree No. 397, of 1937, by virtue of the note from that Ministry
(Consular "epartment), No. 3843, dated August 16, 1938.

=== Page 514 === (confidence 0.97)
"Senor SuGANAMI, a resident for many years in Colombia,
returns accompanied by Senor BA D0, who is g ing for the first time,
and bOth are employees of the AS  IACI ON CHNTRA EL ( MERCIO EXTERION
D L JAPON - (BOYEKI KUI MIAI CUOKAI). They are going on bohalf of tho
Japanese Minister of ndustries, paid by this government, they may
not engaged in private business, and will found a Japanese Comereial
Agency in Bogota, separate from the Legation and if it is possible
a Colombo-Japanese Chamber of Commerce. Among t he prospective plans
of Senor Suganami is the exploitation of a zinc mine, which has
been offered to him by EDUARD) LOPEZ PUMAREJO, and fDom what I
find, this business is regarded with special interest by certain
cireles in Colombia. He also hes in mind studying the cultivation
of cotton with a view to future exportation to thls country.
"Senor YAsuMA, who also 1s not traveling as a private
Individual, Os ropresenting the ASOCIACI N LE EX ORTADORES DE
NoooYA, and hopes to buy products on behalf of this associatlon,
1n order to apply the resulting differences to exportation from
Japan to Colombia, and as I have told you, he called my attention
to this new method of exterior commerce in both senses, of ex-
portation and importatlon through ShmIOrFIClAL agents, who do not
have diplomatic character, but who work with instructions of his
GOVERNMENT, and 1n behalf of large groups having related interests,
like the Associations of xporters here.
"Also 1 have known that Sonor YASUMA, leaves in charge
of buying scrap iron, which is greatly needed in Japan.
"In convereutions with the Japanese I have heard that
there are 300 Japanese in Colombia, but in some of the official
publi cations of ours, I ha ve read that there are only 170. Also I
have been told that thoso who aettled in a haclenda in 'CORl NTo' in
the Cauca valley, started with l0 hectares and today have 100
heetares apiece, and furnish all Colombia with beane. Do you think
that it might be useful to ask the FOREIGNERS SECTION OF THE NATIONAL
POLICE, to acquire complete statistics on the number of Japanese
residing in Colombia? If you agree with this suggestion, the
Legation will appreciate 1t if you w uld send to it one copy of
the 1nformation which the Police Obtain.
"Your attentive servant and compatriot,
// ALFREDOMICHKLSEN,
EMBASSADOR OP COLOMBIA IN JAPAN.
-5-

=== Page 515 === (confidence 0.96)
With reference to K0ICHI OGAWAH, Prontuario #7177 C.T..
Source A advised that this in ividual was the bearer of Cedula do
Extranjerla #2l80, .T. 1ssued to him for eight months in Barranquilla
on August 8, 194). In Barrangu1lla he reeidod in the house of
JULIO C. I NTANA at Libano (aracas y 7 de Agosto.
AWAH originally came to (olombla on August 7, 1940.
bearing Passport #370317, dated June 21, 1940 issued by the Govern-
ment of Japan in Tokyo and visaed by the Consul eneral in Yokohama
OGAWAH claimed his profess!un as a merchant, his religion as Budhist,
and stated he was married. e claimed that his wife lived in Tokyo.
Ja an.  AnAH was born in Tokyo, Japan on August 11, 1913. Ho
gave as a reference in Barranquilla one DUARi) D)KU and also
SHiGrKI TATEKAWA, both Japanese citizens. In Barranquilla, Colombia,
he establlahed himself with a company known as "Nikko Boyeki
Shokai Ltda." This compuny registered at the Chamber of Commeree in
Barranquilla, being represented by the partners, KOICHI OOAwAn and
EIUARDO D KU. OGAWAH, as well as the other Japanese heretofore
mentioned, traveled extengively in Colombia. He is known to have
visited SugANAmI in Bogota, Colombia, on numerous occaslons end
Source A roported t ut SUGA AMI was OuAWAH's superlor in Colombia.
Source A reported that CuAwAH departed from Colombia on April 14,
1942 for Japan by way of a diplomatlc steamer.
1 th reforence to Shl SEkl TATEnAWA, Souree A reported
that thls 1ndividual has Prontuario #9486 C.M., and that he arrived
1n Colomb1a on November 23, 1928. He cla1med to be a Budhist at
the time of arrivai and was single. His profession wae that of a
merohant. He was married to a Japanese woman in Barranquilla,
Colombia in l932. At the present time he has five children, all
being born in Barranquilla. while residing in Barranquilla, he
lived at Calle Sello Nacional, Carrera Aduana. He operated a
general mercantile establiehmont and cafe in Barranquilla and it is
reported that at the time of his residence in Barranquille he was
worth approximately $14,250 (U.8.), including his mercantile estab-
lishment and several pieces of real ostate.
Source A reported that TATEXAwA was a very close friend
of EDUART ) D KU as well as an indI vIdual by the name of OTTO MANGELS,
a known Naz1 sympathizer. n September 28, 1943, TATRkAwA and his
family left Barranquilla, Colombia for Bucaramanga, Colgmbia, upon
instruetions received from the National Police of Bogota. He is
presently residing in Bucaramanga where he is under surveillanee of
the Colombian National Police.
Source A conducted an investigation at Buearamanga con-
cerning the activities of TATEKAwA and at the present time is
residing at Carrera 22, #l4 3, Bucaramanga, Colembia, with his wife
and four daughters. It is reported that they live very poorly and
-6

=== Page 516 === (confidence 0.96)
TATekAwA operates a very small store located in the corner of his
house. It is stated that hie earnings are very small at the present
time and thst his wife and daughtere, in order to assist in their
livelihood, operate a small sewing shop called the Hodesteria.
Source A personally inter viewed TATEkAWA and was informed
by him that he had sold all of his business and properties in
Barranquilla on account of the war and that he lived in the outskirts
of the city in order to economize.
Source A reported that he talke: with a Chinese by the
name of P AN concerning TATEKA. A's activities in Bucaramanga and was
told by PHAN that IATEXAwA was leading a very sulet and retired
11fe.
Source A reports that from the general demeanor of
TATEkAwA, it appears that he is fearful that he will be involved
in some kind of trouble if he becomes active and for this reason
he is leading a quiet, inactive life and 1s princlpally l1ving on
the money whieh he gets from the sale of his merchandise and the
m ney the wife and daughters recei ve from sewine for the people in
Buearamanga.
Wi th referenee to DuARDo DOKD, Source A advised that
this Japanese has rontuar o 29321. de stuted that D0kU first
arri ved 1n Colombia on February 24, 1918, at which time he was
using the name of TOSHI0 DuKU SaI OTANI. That upon his arrival in
Celombia, Doku elalmed to be a Budilst, single and had come to
Colombia to work for himself. He arrived in Barranquilla, Colombia,
and was given Cedula 1442 RE. Shortly after hie arri val in Bar-
ranquilla, DokU ostabiished himself in a smell town called Usiacuri
located 1n the Department of At antic. That 1n 1921, DoKU desired
to marry a Colombian woman. Therefore, he was baptized in the
Catholie Churen and changed his name to EDUARDO DOKU. That there-
after he married a Colombian girl by the name of CANDELARIA BERMEJO.
To this union there was born five sons, whose names are GuFhA?
KAORU, JESUS, MARIA, AnD YULIKOV.
In Barranquilla, Doku operated a cafe which was equipped
with billard tables. This cafe was located 1n the streets ADuANA
and MURI LLo ESQUI WA. The busineas thrived and DOKU was reported
to be in good financlal cireumstances while he resided in Barran-
qui1la.
S URCE A roported that UFRAN, one of the sons of DOKU,
1s at the present time a student of the Colegi Salesiane of Bogotá.
GUFRAN 1s married to a Colombian citisen. Another son, KAORU, at
-7-

=== Page 517 === (confidence 0.95)
the present time is a student at the Natiomal Sehuel of the
Maval Academy in Cartagena.
Membe: of the Colombian Nutional Police searebed the
home of DokU and found several photographs axong them being a
photograph of the oll fields of Barraneabermeja, as well as
protographs of the steamahip "Jaake". There was also found a Large
number of newspaper clippings whioh ineluded the names of many
prominent Japanese.
On September 22, 1943 D. KU and hi: fam1ly were ordered
to the interior of olombia by the Colombian National Police.
They are premently residing in Hogota, at Carreru 21 #69-81.
Souree A reported that the following individuals in
Barranquilla, Colombia are perasnally aoquainted with LokU and
should know of bi ueti vi ties: J. JiA s i NA, lo RalRz,
ELI AS MULSES P. ND G. CAETELLANOS.
Fource A re orted that it is well known that DukU was
a very good friend and partner and worked on special misslons with
ROICHI ÖWAH, ATUJO DN AI A, EIO YAA SO N HI MICHI
SUGANAMI.
Source A further reported that be conducted some investi-
gation concorning )l acti v! tles in Bo ota, olombia, and be
had ascertained that . KJ is leadlng * very quiet life in Bogotá,
rarely ever leaving his home. He reported Doku is engaged in
candy making in his home.
Souree A reported that he has Informati on that DOKU has
over 325, 000 invested in real eatate in the City of Barranquilla.
I rom Source B It wae ascertaimed that SUgANAmI and his
assistants in the Nipon Irade Ageney aetually did no bnsimess out
were engaged in collecting conmeroial information. This souree
reported that all the employees of the Nipen Trade Ageney were
spies and were keeping in close touch with the German Legatiom.
Souree B further reported that plans were being develeped
by the Germane and Japanese to sond trained men to South Ameriea
after the Axis victory.
The same source advised that SUJAnAMI departed from
Colombla on April 18, 1942 on the 38 Cardio for Japam. That the
Japanese were se auxious to leave one of their number in Celombia
that SUgANAMI wont so far as to profess a desire to become a Cathels
and made every erfort so have Cathelie leaders im Colombia intereeds
for him but that metwishstanding she fast that suoAnaxl desired to
remain in Colombia, be wms expelled frem Colombia.
188

=== Page 518 === (confidence 0.96)
Fro this same souree it was reported that SUGAMAMI
was believed to be the Japanese Chamber of Commeree representative
in colombia and had connections with the Ja anese overnmont.
-his source reported that S A A 1 had made ingulries
of the Tropical il  pany of olomuia concerning the possibility
of maxing large purchases for Japan.
Source B roported that  A AI was seen in company with
a Syrian and lerman merch nts at  artagena, Colombia, and he was
very interested in the purchame of cattle, hides, platinum and scrap
iron. The yrian firm ofA  of artagena are reported
to have sent a caole on the morning of June lc, 19sl to the cuble
address "Salmar" In Now York Ity reouesting platinum prlces in
connectlon with quotatlons to be nade by  A  CAiAtE, the head of
a platinum syncicate at Condoto in the hoco rogion of colombia.
CAJELE was said to have contacted  ANAMI 1n regard to platinum
through the Japanese. (it ie known that FUA: AJaLE 1s or has been
one of the leading contracandlets of platinun In olombia.)
From this same :ource it was ascertained that Japanese
interests were active in the Republic of Colombia 1n the purchase
of scrap iron. It 1s reported that on February 20, 1941, 
Japanese boat le1t the :ort of (olombia with 2500 tons of scrap
1ron purehased throurn the  era ar controlled fira of CAsA Hh LD,
but these activities were carriec on by Japanese commercial agente
through the facilities of the Mitaui ompany and the Nippon Trade
Agoney. Further, that SUGANAMI was one of the principal Jupanese
interested in the activities ano the shipment of tho scrap iron.
The same source reporte thet the Nipuon Trade Ageney
in Colombia was represented by SUGA AMI. In this connecti n, this
souree reports that Suca AMt war identified by members of the U. S.
Mission as being identical with a Japanese arrested for Espionage
in the hillipines and later deported. The date of this arrost
1s not known.
The same source reports that on April 18, 1941, the
Colomblan authoritiee hao 1seued an export l1cense for 2000 tons
of sorap metal for shipment to Japan. Although thie shipmont was
reportedly made by a Colombian, it 1s reported that the Japanese
Government handled the shipment, acting through its local representa-
tive of the Nikko Boyeki k Shokai, Ltd.
From this source it was determined that on December 21,
1940 and for the past several months, agonts, acting for the Japanese
Government and for the Mitsui interests had been endeavoring to
purchase quantities of sorap iron. That one of the principals in
negotiating for sorap 1ron was a Japanese by the name of SugAnAMI.
It has been definitely determined that all of the
1mdividuals mentioned in this repert, with the exeeption of ToshIo

=== Page 519 === (confidence 0.93)
LOKU SHI OTANI, ali EDUARD) DOKU, and SHIGEKI TATEKANA, 
departed from Colombia.
-10

=== Page 520 === (confidence 0.92)
13. MEXICO
DEPARTMENT
3F-1
FOREIGN SERVICE
DC A
Máxice, D. P., Mxiee, May 21, 1942
FC
RA
1590
894.20210
JUN 4 1942
FILE"COPY
2
Jt.Si
FOREIGN SERVICE
SR:
on oC
noon OC " of M egucant a patidern,
Laguma, S. A., Ca.

=== Page 521 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 522 === (confidence 0.90)
==
is mentioned only casually; he eppears to have held
a Power of Attorney whieh enabled him to sign sertain
correspondenee for the Compafia Petrolera Veraeruzana,
S. A., but there is moshing so indiemte his status in
that sompany nor hew long he was employed by it. There
does mot seem to bo sufrieient imrormation to substan-
timte a reeommendation fer the imelusiom of the mame
of Mr. Seavedre in the Proelaimed List.
Respeotfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
Thomas H. Lockett
Commereial Attache
In semsuplieate te the Departmest.
Geyy fer Division of Cemmereial Affairs.
610.1
GRP/med-A.
517

=== Page 523 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF
ADVISER ON POLITICAL RELATIONS
OCT 2 -1941
MEMORANDUM
THE MERICAN REPUBLICS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
October 2, 1941
UEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF
89
RA--Mr. Bonsal:
AMERICANNEPUBACAFFAIRS
A06121944
Mr. Compton:
The Coordinator of Inter-American Afn   dosires
2
10/10-141
894.20210
data regarding Japanese activities in the other American
republics. A written request listing the data desired
will be submitted. The request as originally formulated
is extremely broad. I told Mr. Robbins that we would
get together what we could and then consult with regard
to the desirability of instructing our missions to secure
the remainder.
5 8.
Laurence Duggan
AUG 121944
FILED
PA/LD:DMZ

=== Page 524 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICEOF
AMERICANREPUBACAFFAIRS
EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
AUG121944
OFFICE FOR EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
COORDINATOR OF INTER-AMERICAN AFFAIRS
IMERCE DEPARTMENT BUILDING
WASHINGTON. D. C.
October 1, 1941
894.20210/10-141
Dear Arthir:
The attached memorandum was made up for me for
transmittal to Harry Duggan, requesting general inform-
ation on Japanese activities and propaganda.
May we have the information you can give us on
this?
This will also serve to remind you that on
September 22, 194l, we requested general information
on the attitude of the Catholic Hierarchy in the various
other Republics towards this country and general world
conditions.
Very sincerely yours,
10.141
Rottws
894.20210
Edward H. Robbins
Assistant to the Coordinator
Mr. Arthur A. Compton,
The Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
Enclosure
AUG 121844
FILED

=== Page 525 === (confidence 0.98)
MEMORANDU!
September 29, 1941
TO:
Mr. Lavrence Duggan
State Denartment
FROF:
Edward !. Robbins
SUJEUT: Japanese Activities and Propa anda
Yr. Harry Frantz, of our Information Division, is anxious
to make a rather complete study of Japanese activities and propaganda
throuvhout Latin America.
I should be exceedinyly grateful if the State Denartment could
make available to our field office, through whom all such material is
gatheced for the rest of the Coordinator's Office, material on this
question. And I vonder whether it would be possible for this materi al
to answer the following questions:
(1) The location, numhers, and economic activities of
the important Japanese colonies in the other American Republics.
(2) A general outline of the past political and related
activities of the Japanese in the other American Republics, naturally
with special emphasis on such of these as may have impinged on U. S.
interests or policy.
(3) An analysis of the policy of the Japanese Government
itself regarding these Japanese colonies, with emphasis on specific
Japanese activities carried on at the official instance of the Tokyo
authorities themselves.
(4) An analysis of political and other inter-relationships
between the Japanese colonies in the other American Republics and the
Germans and Italians there.
(5) The opinion of students of the problem of the Japanese
in the other American tepublics, regarding the trend of such Japanese
activities and what problems or difficulties are anticipated in this
connection.

=== Page 526 === (confidence 0.98)
Mr. Lawrence Duggan
September 29, 1941
-2-
We have refrained from making  study of this particular
problem ourselves, in the beliof t at tho State Department has
unquestionably covered the subject most thoroughly and that duplica-
tion is altogether undesirable. Ye are most anxious to make this
information available to the division of the Coordinator's Office
which has requested it, and, as I say, we shall greatly aporeciate
your assistance in doing so.

=== Page 527 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
m CI-R8
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF
WAR DEPARTMENT
AMERICAN REPUBLIC AFFAIRS
M. I. D.
JUN 1 9 1945
DIVISION OF AMERICAN
REPUBLIC ANALYSIS AND
LIAISON
11 November 1944
DECLASSIFIED
(Date)
Subject:
E.O. 11852. Sec. 3(E) (md 5M) 
19/73
Oleor. May 3. 1972
Summary of Information:
NARS Dato.
RY
8-15
ITEM:
Noburo HARA and Cia., Japanese textile firm in Buenos Aires,
Argentina is a center for the collection of British, U.S., neutral
and also Argentine maritime infornation for the japanese. It is also
apparently the destination of maritime intelligence obtained on
the West Coast. Dr. Albino PUGNALIN, former Legal Advisor to the
Japanese Embassy and alleged head of a martime espionage ring;
Tomiya KOSEkI, former Embassy secretary and known agent; Olga ALEssAnDRI,
espionage intermediary; Adm. Katsumi YUKISHITA, ex-Japanese Naval Attache
and alleged chief of Japanese maritime intelligence, have all either
called at or been in contact with HARA & Cia. The firm has avoided
blacklisting through the ruse of transferring ownership to two Argentine
employees, Cleto SANCHEZ and Jaime GARCIA, and is now known as SANCHEZ
and GARCIA. Both of these individuals are reported to be intermediaries
in the Japanese espionage ring.
SoURCE: M/A, Argentina, Report #11839, 27 October 1944; Evaluation B-3.
COMMENT:
The Argentine Government severed relations with the Axis in January
1944. Since that time there has been little control placed over former
members of the Japanese Embassy staff, or over citizens or aliens of
Japanese origin. Ineffective steps, largely window dressing, were taken
in February to curtail the activities of Japanese espionage agents.
Since that time such individuals have been allowed to operate with no
interference from the Argentine Government. The above report is but
additional confirmation of the existance of an active maritime collection
agency forwarding data to the Japanese.
P.D.Q!
SHIPPING DIVISION
AUG
94.20210
JUL 3 1 1946
10L1
5
Evaluation
source
tion
Reliable
(D)
Credible
Questionable
Distribution:
Undetermined
State Dept.
B-3
ONI
FBI
16—82909-1
GPO
Treasury Dept.
CONFIDENTIAL
Western Hemisphere Specialist, MIS

=== Page 528 === (confidence 0.95)
OF JAPANESE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
LUn5FBI
12/2/4
(bed)
G/JON
Cneeg
BM:pmo
DEC-91944
MedEfaldu
1944
weau of nuestigatiol
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
REOEIVED
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
IN REPLY, PLEASE HEFER TO
DEC1-1944
FILE NUMBER
DIVISION OF
Date:
NOV 2 59944
To:
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
2444
AFrom:
John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject: JAPANESE PUBLICATIONS
As of possible interest to you, it has been learned that the Police
Department of Porto Alegre, Brazil, recently confiscated a number of Japanese
publications which had been translated into the Portuguese language. A list
of the titles and the authors of these publications in Portuguese and English
is attached.
These books are available for forwarding to Washington and since the
information contained therein may be of value to you, you are requested to advise
C
S
this Bureau the titles of any of these publications which you would be interested
in examining.
Enclosure
cc - Assistant Chief of Staff
FORVICTORY
G-2, War Department
BUY
cc - Director of Naval Intelligence
Washington, D. C.
UNITED
FELED
STATES
WAR
Navy Department, Washington, D. C. Attention: Colonel C.
BONDS
STAMPS
AND
-1945

=== Page 529 === (confidence 0.99)
Japanese Dictionary
DICI NAF IC JAPONES
Soe Tamack
2
Study on Civil Construction
ESTUDO DE C NSTRUCAC CIVIL
Ju Amada
3
tudy on Vines
ESTUDO DA VIDEIRA
Ko Oinove
4
Study on Breeding of ivestock
ESTUDO DA CRIACA DE GADO
Kenso D. Guchi
5
Study on Horticulture
FSTUDO DE ORTICULTURA
Jukisaku Kato
6
Manufacture of Dairy Products
FABRICACAO DE LACTICIN IOS
Rokuro Duvanami
7
Organization of Rural Society
ORGANISACAO SOCIEDADE RURAL
Dinamark Hokkaido
8
Study on Citrus Fruits
ESTUDO DAS LARAGEIRAS
Ykuro Takakaski
9
Study on Television
ESTUDO DA TELEVISAO
Tadaoki Jamomoto
10
Study on Cooperatives
ESTUDO DAS COOPERATIVAS
Tosaburo Ysokida
11
Summary Study on Algebra
ESTUDO SUMARIO DE ALGEBRA
Chuto Rigokukai
12
Study of Mathematias
ESTUDO DE MATEMATICAS
Ko Tonimura
13
Study on Rural Economy
ESTUDO DA ECONOMIA RURAL
Tokijo Niohi-Nichi Skim
14
Study of English Grammar
ESTUDO DE GRAMATICA INGLESA
Kaibuns Ka
15
Study on the Infant Theatre
ESTUDO TEATRAL INFANTIL
Masao Jamomoto
16
Study of the Biography of General Nogus
and Admiral Togo
ESTUDO DA BIOGRAFIA DOS GENERAIS NOGUS
E ALMIRANTE TOGO
Kan Kikuehi

=== Page 530 === (confidence 0.99)
Annual Study for 1938
ESTUDO ANUARIO PARA 1.938
Hosaki Schimbum
18
Study on Festivals
ESTUDO SOBRE FESTIVAI
Kocho Baba
19
Study of Handwriting
ESTUDO DAS CALIGRAFIAS
Chudo Ykeda
20
Study on Radios
ESTUDO DE RADIOS
Tarsuo Jukuschima
21
Romance of a New Life
ROMANCE DE UMA VIDA NOVA
Denkiti Yschida
22
Study of Laws for Economy in Time of War
ESTUDO DE LEIS PARA ECONOMIAS EM TEMPO DE
GUERRA
Archioiken Keizarbu
23
Commercial Dictionary
ICIONARIO COMERCIAL
Chugai Schogjo Skimpo
24
Rural Questions
ASSUNTOS RURAIS
Tojochiko Kacamg
25
Culinary Recipes
RECEITAS CULINARIAS
Rijosino Tmoscha
26
History of War
HISTORIA DA GUERRA
Koeishindo
27
Medical Treatment in the Colony
TRATAMENTC MEDICO NA COLONIA
Jujoki Masuoko
28-29 History of Malaria
HISTORIA SOBRE A MALARIA
Suo Ko
30
Album of Sino-Japanese War
ALBUNS DE GUERRA-CHINO-JAPONES
Masao Jamozaki
31
Child Opera
OPERA INFANTIL
Sieka Schibasauva
32
Rural and Youth Questions
ASSUNTOS RURAL E MOCIDADE
Joshisuke Taosauva
33
Lamb and Lamb Produots
CARNEIROS E SEUS PRODUTOS
Kikei Jamada
34
Letters for Lovers
CARTAS PARA NAMORADOS
Otay Jiro

=== Page 531 === (confidence 0.99)
Study of Portrait Painters
ESTUDO DE RETRATISTAS
Ochoto Tymeo
36
School Lectures
LEITURAS ESCOLARES
Ministerio de Educacao
37
Elementary Course in Geometry
CURSO ELFMENTAR DE GEOMETRIA
T. Hujaski
38
Memories of the 5Oth Anniversary of the
University of Tokyo
MEMORIAS DO 5O° ANIVEL SARIO DA UNIVERSIDADE
DE TOKIJO
Tokjo Nogojo Daigaku
39
Study on Television Machines
ESTUDOS DE APARELHOS DE TELEVISAO
Nipon Denkikassischa
40
Daily Bulletin
BOLETDM DIARIC
Kion Hmigoki

=== Page 532 === (confidence 0.91)
December 23,1
In reply refer to
RP 894.20210/11-2444
8
My dear Mr. Hoover:
I refer to your memorandum (referense 110-3)
2
regarding the availability at Porte Alegre, Brazil,
of a number of Japanese publications whieh had
C
been translated into the Portuguese language.
23
It will be appreclated if the following titles
oan be secured for the Department of State:
22 Study of Laws for Economy in
Time of War
Estudio de Lels Para Eoonomias
em Tempo de Guerra.
Archieikon Keicarbu
26 History of War
Historia da Guerra
Keeishinde
2444
30 Album of Sine-Japanese War
Albuns de Guerra-Chine-
Japones.
Nasao Jamesaki
32 Bural and Kouth Questiens
Assuntos Rami k Kssidade
Jeskisuke Taesauva
sinserely yours,
DOR NE Uuit
nal. m.
(Bam)
m
I. Wilder Spaulding
Chief, Divisiss ef
Researuk and Publieation
Jehn Mger Eoover, Esquire,
DEC 23 1944P.M.
S/CR
apartment of Justice.
A tru
the sig
na!.
RP: M: pmb
18/m1/44

=== Page 533 === (confidence 0.99)
Please index and return
with previous correspondence,
if any, within—
*Half hour
One hour
Two hours
Today
*Please check.
1616912
GPO

=== Page 534 === (confidence 0.92)
CC-285a
HOOVER
Jederal Burean of Inuestigation
≤14
Anited States Department of Justice
DeR
Mashington, D. C.
JUL1
Date:
RA
To: Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
po
Assistant Secretary of State
JUL1942
MR. BERLE
From: J. Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject: Alert Incident
Additional information has been received on the Alert Incident in
This information has been received from a reliable, confidential
source and is being transmitted by the attached
Y
cc - Director of Naval Intelligence
Navy Department, Washington, D. C.
JUL291442
SEP 7三1942.
dele
cc - Brigadier General Hayes A. Kroner
FILED
PS/PGB
Chief, Military Intelligence Service
War Department, Washington, D. C.
STATE

=== Page 535 === (confidence 0.95)
ALERT INCIDLNT
It is reported that after the Tuna boat "Alert" reached
Puntarens, Costa ica, with a Japanese crew on hoard, it left Puntarenas
to go to Caldera to secure lo,Ooo gallons of oil, with the Japanese
crew still on board.
Besides the crew two sons of Rafael Beache (Pafael Beeche,Jr.
and Chanin Beche) and a Customs guard from Puntarenas were on board.
The West India Cil Tanks are locate at Caldera and the Customs guard,
one Jose Ma Castro, had an order for oil for the Customs guard, Mr.
Faniagua at Caldera.
When the "Alert" reached Culdera it was found that 5,000
gallons of oil remained in the tanks of the boat and also the hose used
for transferring the oil from the tanks to the boat was broken. The
boat started back to untarenas and shortly thereafter the attack by
United States planes began.
The above information is in variance with previous reports which
state that the attack took lace before the "Alert" reached Caldera.
Rafael Beeche, the Port Captain at Puntarenas, recently stated
that he had received a letter from a United States Military man in
Washington, D. C., asking him to relay the facts of the matter in his
official capacity as Fort Captain. However, Beeche stated that he owned
some stock in the Company that owned the "Alert" and that it was almost
certain that if he wrote out the facts and signed it, the United States
Government would undoubtedly confiscate the "Alert." He stated that he
therefore tore up the letter from Washington and is not sure from whom
the letter was received but believes the Military man's name was Steever
or Steiner.
It is reported that Rafael Beeche did not remove the Japanese
crew from the "Alert" when it reached Puntarenas and before it went to
Caldera because he is the agent for the West India Oil Company and wanted
to make a sale of oil which would not have been possible had the Japanese
crew been removed at that time.
INR
AU6 5-1942
7me
41
