894.014 Government. Mandates, Recognition., Japan, Territory. Maps, January 6, 1945 - October 24th, 1949 (File 1774)
ID: 894.014-1774   Pages: 453   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.014-government-mandates-recognition-6
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.94)
AFFAIRS
mdNe.
Serial No. 00160813
(80) A17-10
NAVY DEPARTMENT
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS
WASHINGTON
6 JAN 1945
SECRET
SECRET
My dear Mr. Secretary:
Acknowledgment is made of your letters
(SP, FE) of December 23 and December 28, 1944,
addressed to Captain L. S. Sabin, Officer in Charge,
wi.itar
e:ra! 11vision, with
lyin
Is lands.
The suggestion in paragraph 2 of your
letter of December 28 has been incorporated in
paragraph ll of the Political Directive.
I appreciate your prompt attention in
this matter.
Sincerely yours,
L
Hon. James Cloment Dunn,
Assistant Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
SECRET

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.97)
No. 65,
AMERICAN CONSULATE
CONFIDENTIAL
Questions of Ir ternat fonal Law and of
Americar Pelicy Raised by Dr. George
SUBJECT:
H. Blakeslee's Article "Japan's Mandated
Islan is" in Derartnort of State BULLETIN.
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
C
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
I have the honor to refer to the article "Japan's
Mandated Islands" by Dr. Georfe H. Blakeslee which
afrears in the Department of State BULLETIN of
December 17, 1944, Vol. XI, No.286, and particularly
to the sentence on page 765 which opens the section
"United States Interests to 19l9" and which reads as
follows:
"Missions from the United States. United
States missionary influence became so
strong throughout the Marshalls and the
eastern Carolines that the claims of the
missions alone would probably have been
ample to justify the United States in
extending its political control over all
the archipelagoes in this part of the
Pacific."
The implication that there is or can be a nexus
between missionary work and political control is so
challenging that a request for further information on
Doctor Blakeslee's statement is respectfully ventured.
Perhaps it may be a superficial observation on my part,
but if any one thing did impress me during a career
in China it was that the Chinese in fact did challenge
Christian missionary work not on its religious or
ethical content but on its political character -
as something altogether too intimately connected with
the political motives of foreign powers. And on the
other hand the missionaries of all nationalities went
through many trying experiences, including martyreem,
to refute the Chinese contention and to persuade the
Chinese that missionary work was based solely en
SEP&01905
JUN 7r

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
religious motives and had no politieal significance.
So much so, that in the American-Chinese treaty of
1903 it was deemed necessary to state in the open-
inf sentence of Article XIv what the principles of
the Christian relipion were, what the Chinese were
intended to understand what American missionary
effort meant.
One recalls the cynicism with which
was met the Japanese demand in 1915 for the right to
ownership of land for the building of Japanese
"hospitals, churches and sehools."
In my own
experience similar cynicism was directed by some
Chinese toward Christian hospitals, churches and
schools.
Neither in the such standard works as Moore's
International Digest under the subject "Sovereignty;
Its Acquisition and Loss"; nor in Hyde's International
Law - Chiefly as Interpreted and Applied by the United
States under the subject "General Rights of Property
and Control"; nor in Hackworth's Digest of International
Law under the heading "Territory and Sovereignty of
States" do I find material which supports Doctor
Blakeslee's proposition that the claims (presence ?
residence ? property ?) of American missions might be
the basis for the extension of American political
control (sovereignty ?).
I do not wish to be understood as challonging
the wisdom of a policy which might have resuljed in
the acquisition by the United States of the territory
referred to by Doctor Blakeslee, but in the light of
the opposition of the Chinese (and perhaps other non-
Christian peoples) for many years to missionary work
precisely because of the political character they
attached thereto (and strenuously denied by the
occidental0 it appears proper to raise the question
whether Doctor Blakeslee's statement is tenable:in
international law or has ever received recegnition by
the United States Government in any premouneements of
national poliey. As a subject for researeh, Doctor
Blakeslee's proposition might well be worth pursuing
in American "Foreign Relations" and in works on inter-
national law.
Respectfully yours
Samuel Bokebin
American Consul
801.3
Ss:mee
In single osalid only to Department.
Cepy to Eabassy, London.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.91)
CHARL M. LÁ POLLETTE
Ont DTIST INANA
SEBRETARICS
Congress of the United States
MISS GRACE A. BLOAN
MISS EMMALINE RUSCHE
DCR
Pouse of Representatibes
Masbingten, D. C.
June 13, 1945
11945
894.014/6-1345
CEFARIME
Hon. James C. Dunn
Assistant Secretary of State
State Department
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sir:
A constituent of mine has written me asking:
"What is the area of Japan and all its holdings? And
its population?"
yR,
I will appreciate it if you will furnish me such informa-
794.5011
tion as you may have available in order that I can reply to this
inquiry.
Yours truly,
S
Karles M. La Frlett
N
C.R
Charles M. LaFollette, M.C.
894.014/6-1345
er
E
1pust

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.97)
frl
June 18, 1945
My dear r. LaFollette:
In response to your letter of June 13, 1945,
addressed to r. Dunn, Assistant Secretary of State,
requesting information as to the area and population
of Japan and all its holdings, I anner the infor-
mation desired.
Sincerely yours,
Special Assistant to
Secretary of State
Enclosure:
population of Japan
The Honorable,
Charles M. LaFollette,
House of Representatives

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
2
Total Area of the Japanese Empire - 681. 2lh.75 square
Japan Proper
382,545.42
Housh1
230,532.32
Sh1koku
18,772.83
Kyushu
42.078.99
Hokkaido
88.775.99
Looohoo
2,386.24
Korea
220,768.65
Formosa
35,834.35
Pesoadores
126.86
Karafuto
36,090.30
Kwantung Leased
Territory
3,462.45
l.andated Islands
2,148.80
SMR Zone
297.92

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.98)
Estimated Population of the Japanese Empire as of December 1. 1937
Japan Proper
71,372,400
Korea
23,640,800
Formosa
5,445,700
Karafuto
338,500
Kwantung Leased
Territory
194,400
Handated Islands
78,600

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE
DIVISION OF EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
Division of British Commonwealth Affairs
July 16, 1945
FC - Mr.Noal
In going over some. papers I found the attached
paoket of.post cards of views of the Japanese ooast
894.014
near Atami. If they will be of any use to G-2 or
ONI will you kindly pass them along.
Theodore C. Aohilles
Cond
7-23-45
CS/LE
FC:ROL:LP
JUL 2 01945
Attaohment:
Packet of
20 post oards.
ih Ni Init
JUL 251945
ànn
Ru
BC:TCA:mrh
Oas.
Dist.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.86)
ERESTHICTER
r0: Direetor,
Divislon of Naval Intelligemse,
Mavy Department.
Fhin: Frederiok B. Lyon, Onief, Division of Pereigm
otivily Jurroiullon
: rut v ur vi  the Japns Co
nour Atami
The enolosed paaket ef post eards has beem
transmitted to this office by Mr. Theedere 0.
nollilles, Chlef of the Divisien of mrisian comm
Affaire as a posaible use to the Inselligense
or the assed forees.
Enclesure:
Packes of so
pest eards.
A tree oou of
FG: RDLengvedr: LP
DOR. NE

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.92)
Orfico of
FAR EASTERN APFAIR
MAY 1 4 1946
Thr Mem Pork Times
DIRNCTOR
Department of State
D
S TIm IDEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE
a:JRe
1946
M.A
DIVISIS
291946
、94t
LVISION OF
LICATIC
My dear Mr. LohesonRANCH
Dc/
I have been directed to ask you several questiems. These questieme were
previously presented to General Dougles Maearthur's headquarters in Tekye,
where it was said the answere would be given only in Washingten. Them the
questions were presented to the War Department.
Mr. Howard Petersen, Assistant Secretary of Bar, has advised me to
894.014/5-646
go to the State Departmemt and has told me in & letter: "The War Bepartment
has confirmed that your letter will receive prompt attemtiom in the Depert-
ment of state and that your questiome will be answered as fully as pessible
under the ciroumstances."
The questioms follow:
Has there beem any agreement by which Russian troops may legitimate-
ly patrol the islands fust off the cast of Hokkaido and ostemsibly outaide
the Russiam-controlled soms? If so, whem was it made and what are the
terms?
If there has not been any such agreement why have Imesiean troops
beem instrueted to avoid these places which (this is commem kmewledge on
the north Japanese east) the Russians regalarly visit?
Is it admitted that the islands in the strait betwesm Russian-
oceupied Sakhalin and Umited States-occupied Hokkaido have beem taken over
peremptorily by Russian forces in the absenee of United States troops?
Has an agreement been made with the Russians which alters the
Potadm definitiom of Japan and bamis over certain islands south of
GS
Sakhalin to the Russians for safekeeping? If so, whem was the agreement
reached and why was it not announeed?
I should be grateful to you for a reply.
DCF NF Juit
24
Yours truly,
CA
Berman H. Dinsmere
JUN 3 1946
Di
DEPARTMFNT OF STATE
To FE fon antin T/1s/t6
The Eop. Dean Achesen
MAI:1946
RF
Department of state
TREATY SECTION
United states of Americe
Beingten. D. C.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.88)
My dear Nr. Diamere:
The Departmeat is in receipt of your letter
of May 6, 1946, posing oertain inquirlee regarding
894
the boundary between the nerthern Japamese 1sland
of Nekkalde and Beviet-centrelled tarritery.
You have ne doubt by now reeesved the Bepert
ment's reply to an identieal lotter wmsen you
addressed to the War Department on Aprt1 29, 200s.
Sinccrely yours,
For the hestng Seeretnvg
DOR. NE Umdt

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.93)
3
FOR JAPAN
NOV101010
RECEIVED
GENEHAL HILLDRING
ARTMENT OF STA
I'GVI R 9 26
DCTR
estricted
Tokyo, October 21, 1946
REPORTING SFAVILL.
DIVISION OF FORT
NOV-11946
6.66
1 OF STATE
:
Tran:mitting petition of certain Okinawans
Kecuesting that Okinawa be returned to Japan
x1
894.014/10-2146
The Unitrd  tates Folitical Adviser has the honor to
enclose herewith a copy of a petition Baron Chosuke Iye
and kyoko Nakayoshi, vho allege that they are a cting on
behalf of a group of Ohinavans now residing in Japan,
requesting that Orinawa be placed uncer the administrative
cart of the Japanese Covernment.
The petition cleims that the Okinawans are a Japan-
ese rece ano assert that union with Japen is the best
assurance for the economic stability of Okinawa.
This paper is forwardec merely for the Depertment's
informetion as incicative of the attitude of certain
1.5A
former residents of Okinawa.
IFE
60CD
DEC9 1946
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FF STATE
1ED
1.DA
BECE.YED
2 SPD
Enclosure:
NOV 2 5 1946
Copy of petition, as stated
CS
(1 copy only)
Original and hectograph to Derartment
12
701.32
GAAbbey: cby
DEE121946
NOV 2 1 1946
JEC 31 1946
FILED
88

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's No. 660, October 21, 194
subject: "Transmitting petition of certain Okinawan
Requesting that Okinawa be returned to Japan"
632 Karagasaki.
Meguro-ku, Tokyo
October 2, 1946
General of the Army Douglus LacArthur,
Supreme Commander of the Allied Powers,
Tokyo.
Your Excellency:
In behalf of tne leading Okinawan signatories now
residing in Japan, we have the honor of submitting this
Fetition to Your Excellency for your sympathetic
cousideration.
When the Military Administration wus promulgated
in Okinawa immediately after the occupation by the
American Forces last summer, the Military Government
lost no time in establishing hospitals and infirmaries
at strategic points to give medical care to the afflioted.
in distributing food and clothings to all the people and
in supplying lumber and building materials for the re-
building of homes. For these acts of human kindness, the
people of Okinawa have felt most grateful to the Military
Government and the people of the United States. The
inhabitants of the islands with a few exceptions have
now returned to their towns and villages as though oblivi-
ous of the horrors of the past war and are busily engaged
in the rebuilding of their homes and in the cultivation
of their lands while collaborating whole heartedly with
the authorities there in the rehabilitation of the varied

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.98)
peace time industries and institutions.
While manifesti.g  deer sense of gratitude and
fully up re juting the generosity of the united states.
the Ckinawans connected as they are in blood with the
people of Japan, are eurnestly craving to be again
placed under the administrutive care of the Japanese
Government and their homeland to be returned to Japan
as and wnen conditions would warrant sucn ciunges.
It is said tnat blosd is thicker than water and our
people fully coglizant of the fact that they are of
the Japunese ruce and wiling to brave wnatever con-
ditions destiny may thrust upon the vanguished nation.
stand ever ready to share in the fate of their con-
sauguineous brothers of Jupan.
In certain uarters of America and Europe, there
seems to exist a fallacious view that the reople of
Japan have in the past looked down upon the Okinawans
as their pour cousins and have  ot, therefore, accorded
them fair and symrathetic treatment. In this connection
it could be said witn impunity that neither the Govern-
ment nor the people have ever ccorded the Okinawans
any discriminatory treatment whatsoever. Okinawa has
always been given exactly the some treatment as the
other prefectures of Japan. For seventy years, since
she came within the administrative fold of the Maiji
Government. Okinawa has continued her existence and

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.96)
development as : territory of japan and it is presontly
the fervent hope und Ir-yer oi all Okinawans taat their
nomelane be per.ittec to renuin as an integral part of
Jupun as heretofore.
Some recple in Europe und in America are discuss-
ing the queut on ci avarding Cailluwa like Formosa and
Munchuri to Juin. Tnis. in ou nu.ple opinion. is
nut tounded on. gouu subst tiul reusons. It is true
that (kinawa us - Ryukju Mingdon nud main tained friendly
relations with. Caina for more.than five hundred yeurs
until tne dav: or the Meiji Sra. und that sweet potatoes.
the stuple food of the Ckinluwans und sugar manufacturing.
the only important industry of the islunds, had been
in troduced to tne Ckinawans by the hinese. Oainawa
oved muen to cuint for these tnings and because of this
fact, tne people of the islunds hud ut one time in
their history eutertained a desire to keep up lasting
cordial relations with her benefactor neighbors.
Hov.ever, the Government oi Cnina had never had a direct
hund in. tne administration of the Ryukyu islands.
The only affair worthy oi rolitical signiiicance in
Okinawa's relations with Chint might be mentionec the
dispatch of in envoy by the successive Chinese Emperors
once every forty or fifty years to confer a crown on
the Kings of the Ryukyus. Although limited in area
and meager in natural resources, Okinawa had never
sought China's patronage. Her object in maintaining

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.94)
friendship with Chine luy in her desire to imbibe lattor'
culture  turfit  re ry trade. The relation-
sn ther.  t.trl und economic in
ture.e the sts lec to rule tue islunde.
sone three ht.ureu yeurs uro, the Oainuwans were then
uuligee by cire mstunces to muintuin relatione with both
rapun und Crinu. However, several hundred years prior
to Suts u a'e r, the - nese begn to come to the
islurde d smen st ther vas  amous wurrior Tametomo
Hinamoto wnose son Shu-ten becule the firut ruler of
Ckinala to be r  orded in her histury. buddlism wus
also introduced to the reople oi Oninawa by the capanese
priests who migrated to the lsiunds t bout that time.
Thus, the interccurse between Japan und Cxinawa d become
increasingly more freyuent until the time oi the appearance
of the notorious band of pirates known as ako who roved
the China Sea and the waters around Korea. In order to
avoid beccmine the rrey of these murauders, the Okinawan
ships from that time began to sail to Cuina und the South
Seas, temporarily interrupting communications with Japan.
However, tne Oki..awans being one in race, language and in
manners and customs vith the Japanese, it was only natural
for them to again bind themselves in amicable relationship
with the people of Japan by coming under the rule of the
Satauma clan. At that time when Hideyoshi Toyotomi was
about to dispatch expeditionary forces to Korea, he urged
the Okinawans through the Lord of Satsume to join the

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.94)
expeditio.. in. exactly the um manner as the other
clans of cup-r, tact  hich cleurly sioned that the
 nose e ted re rdee the people of
Cainavu as trneir tello: countrymen.
Yusuju Hune, n Cninawan statesmen and a
nistorin, some three hu dret yeurs aco stated that
from the philolo ic 1 stundpcint, the ranese and the
Peol. o. Caih: are desce de ts from the same stock.
Sinee then, tne Cin awans nave ulwuys believed with
immovabie fuitn in tno truth oi this assertion. It
was with this b li-f that Tai Suo, the last Lord of
Ckinavu, at the behest of tne Joverument during the
Meiji Restoration ludly -ne villingly gave up his
feudul loresli, oi tue i lands a..d submitted himself
and his posses. is to the uuthority o1 the mperor
with  feeling o1 a son coming home to his parents.
All this was brou ht about most naturally with mo
coersion from the roverent und without yielding to
the mi ht of the military. Farticulurly at this
juncture we would like to point out that in no way was
this rolitical transition comparable with the way
Formosa was ceded to Japan by Chinu or with the manner
Korea was annexed to t his country.
Since Okinawa came under the administration of the
Meiji Government, she saw remarkable diffusion of educa-
tion and great development of industries while communi-
cations with Japan were efficiently maintained by regular
lines of steamers. The people of the islands enjoyed the

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.97)
same rights und privileges, politically and administ-
rativeiy, as the ! eoi los o: the other prefectures
vitnout  tu o. ifierence. Ckinawa was undeniably
an inte rul .t o: i-pun. I. view of this fact it is
out maturui that tne Iuople of Ckinawa should crave to
seo at this time the return o: tneir islands to the
mother country. Tnese pleas and entreatics for the
realizut:on of t eir fervent hopes are but natural
mnifestation of their deel sincere humen feelings
vitnout ny ulterior motive.
We lirmly believe tnat Osinawa because of her
geo rupnical propin uity to Jepun will be best able
to sustair. her economic life througn ner commercial
intercourse with Japun and the Feople of Okinawa will
be best able to secure treir happiness by being Japan-
ese as in the past. Your great country, now assuming
the most active role in the effort towards the establish-
ment of world peace and always solicitous of the welfare
and happiness of mankind, will, we pray, not fail to
lcnd & listening ear to the plea of the people from
Ckinawa and give full consideration to their entreaties.
At the present juncture with the Peace Con-ference in
not too distant a future, we take the liberty of sub-
mitting this humble Petition to Your Excellency hoping
that it will be given full consideration.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.89)
We remain.
Yours respectfully.
Blosnre Jye
(Baron) chosuke 
Ryrks Manay orh'
Ryoko Nakayoshi

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.98)
We, tue undersigned, respectfully petition Your
Excel ency fur tne return of our heme land Okinawa to Japan.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.94)
We, the undersigned, respectfully petition Your
Excellenoy for the return of our homelend Okinawa to Japem.
子
仲尾次嗣善
安注英

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.87)
友寄隆德
照屋利夫
宫里長太郎
中政
下地惠榮

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.86)
Pomin. zed list o. un.es oi .etitioners
Rono lhu
un ie-on
enwa Ranna
"iyomateu ino
i. eit.tsu i..n ine
Lusuyoshi umiyuma
Seneu  aur
Fomculde voeute
Yoshinuo cenaga
Mobo..u Morita
one Migusato
Moritoshi Suimabukuro
Yuouo To.ud
Suinl in
 Yonuda
oteu r
Som1mur
Antei loxuda
"iyomatsu Jusni
si o ni
fasuicni rokumura
reishaku  r sa i
wto u fare re
Cnigoko Nokamura
Chinsho mijagi
"
Hiroyuki Morita
xycicni uniyoshi
:oshio .ui uru
Shokichi uuaka
Tsunmasa Alugi
Inutero kmoto
: owa .or ikuva
Sanae :ununosni
seine Togueni
elfuku umita
Sogyo Yaga
Yusho rum nahu
Hoei Miyugi
Masatsune Sotoma
Lensno Shinbururo Isuneyosni Huwae
Jyuri Kategawa
shizen wkaoshi
Shinsen unama
Sninei Isa
Koei Asnimine
Shien Yoshida
Rinjin Teruya

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.88)
Ryutoku Tomoyoshi
Toshio teruya
Chotaro Miyasato
Yeiei Snino
e iehu  mura

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.84)
AECEVEO
30
N3M
Torm. Five copies
I. lund. d jecent
894.
I cofy
retained
.IAL
4/10/47
LIMLA! 
66
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
GUISITION AND DISTRIBJTION
DIVISION
rivo.o.i.
DISTRIBUTION BRANCH
MAR 1 7 1947
Fn
Copy of enclosure to
IWP(IAD)
MIS
om
-ri i.'.1..
eto. r to Detrtont.
JEPARIMNT OF LATE
801.45
RECETVED
Risushor: vr
EC
E
1:917
MAR 2 5 247
OFF ICE OF INTELNDENCE
服
COILECTION ANO DATION
PILDD
APR 28 1947
MAY 28
MAR:11917
D
Mtethelen 583+ 429

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.97)
O NOT DETACH THIS FORM!
R E C O R D C O P Y
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A DESPATCH HAS BEEN DESIG-
NATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL ACTION
COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TÒ THE CENTRAL RECORDS
BY THE ACTION OFFICE.
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
--o0o--

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.80)
F AN
Tolyo, isrch 4, 1947
MAR 28 1947
001136
kec'd DC/L
Mar. 20
11:05 .r.
P!
fadlon
A-0 -0
 inforolly to one of the
894.014
.cector of enoral
ntii.
tne overnent.In vie
uf. uak iret in sutn xubjuct. rs solerted ln thin
  ..  . 17. n no. .
reoryy 26. i7. it 1o obrole tht the ubovomenttonnd coraittee
3-447
Is u officinlly ispirel orgnniw tion, end eusmste en endeevor on
the  rt of the Je iniro Forei p uffice to stimulate interost in the
return to Jrpan of tlm tolnndo entioned in the patition.
Enclommre:
Co of Petisiom.
Craglal and hotegrayh to smparteet.
Go to? mlem y, Ls.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.85)
tr.clorure to Jesuetch ..0. a91 urted wareh 4. 1047 from the Usd
tater rolitical dviner for Japan, Tolgo. on the subject "Jormre
Int Cony of I-tition for estoration of Inlrnds Helonging to
okm1do",
de of to y eel rtour.
-upreme cormrnor for the Allied rowere.
Jen. 15, 1947.
I hve the horer  renetn the vatition whiou on ug. 6, 1946
I prt to   brhlf t voinittee of rotition for the
o tn of t lonntookido, to ot thoee telondo
ristorra Pror.  ai'e corup ion.
L. In tno ti on e prreontol to you under the unte of
  ls. w entrcu o for ur afrorte to roleed orofu.
wnslirin tovo:l Il ue (hikoten. rermitu. nibrtou.
. uri. u:i) sro soviet' ocoupution. so that thoy
any to brou at under t'uit of the U.t. vecupation roroeu. for those
1elanma ro erly belon: to Hokk ido. refugees from thosn islende
vho rro now in eruro re nxtouxly asiroue of the relenme of the
ialrnde which  re theis old hono from sovict's occupation end of an
early opportunity for their rotum thore, but contrary to their
expoct tion they leern Soviet's suthorities ero furthoring her oo
cupntion policy only the moro strenougly.
.  1s io known by the fact thet. on Anril 12. 1046. the
peonlr's Cov iarlct thorr iosucd , circular (es on the pttached sheot)
nnnouncing to thoae Jepnene who rorwined on Kuneehiri sut the
Fudomei Irlnnds thnt p soviet's ndministrtive office hed beem newly
sotablished at urukanapyu nnd tn Jrvenese ofrices in the dietriot
under ite juriediction hd been diasolved enn thit rll nduinistmsion
vould henceforth be menrg'd in pocordance with the toviat's laws.
(Tho. atrtc of thingm in  torofu is unknown, but it is premumed to
be tno crme se in Yuuasliri.)  etrict vetch hre been kopt on eny
atteimst to escape from these islends, no thrt thoer Jrpanose who
remrin there are dospeiring of neking good their esca,e, nor nve
they eny hope of their islande beink restored to the Jepenese sover-
ointy.
. o hrve purrendered to the allied rovern by wccaptin? the
commitions of the sotsds Declaration, smd are faithfully livinx
up to every clrume of it. In the ath clrune of the veclaratiom is
is proviued for that "Jr innrsn sovarei nty uhall so limited to the
islrads of Honaha, Hoktyido, yusbu, uhikoku inu such minor islemin
us w eterwine." torofu, unmshiri rnd the bumai Ialrds 
ssstutins :wrte.of Hokiouiao. historicully ro unll a so mlly
lemging to hokdanido, mnd as such oney shouia uroperly be plem
under the cosuw:tiom of tne llied rowere forose woder your

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.78)
nolosu.a to
P.. .
rch4. 17
1.17: 1ro there
tor.ed not only
)lr out Iro 1ro the eu
i lI lrnnd cught to e Jeunne
 . voroi nty te limited to the
Tn, Thoretore it ie the
on trore irlen. but
c ion y be lifted
m v toor for increased
rotrh rotecton and
 ht nd for aemocrroy, lib
 o trouble Your
 boforebut 1 hope
 co. tor vion on tho watter.
 rd e Yort ofemuro
mcluain torofu. Kunsjiri.
oined ia the rrow poutit
ro bout 14500 n
  th loent unintentionl
 Cinnspon invits heir arroat
n their territorirl cee
 r uroerrie to o oat zohin
un tne t. oo. iiehir bot vith a cre/ of jour on board.
tv.enrhl n monrokoku.
 o.l9.uher ioin. bot corryina  crew of
,  to . rb. 
    cr ae o  coe bk.
as tal n r ero io outns to the buviet'e 
cu: tion of o r. cur aren for fiuhins he become cxtronaly
reetricld. t n fl hory centoriu rount Fonuro ia ps sool 
ourenden.
Fis ind lon ts co  ve of ixienc" in tho wlsty watere or iu
tho lrke-lie ininuu vos nich lu livided oy che bouniare lino. fion-
int-hin tro vary tpt unwittinly to teke  rong course or to be
carrird y u currente na thas to treepne on the coviet's waters.
after all the ocoupation of thonn islonr oy the sovlet's Foroee
inctead of the .s. Forces in the cruso of rll theso trom sses.
I tsn you voul: rrciourly bostoy n nyroathetic considormtion
on the ytter for the srke of the citizenn of zeruro cud the rofureen
from thore ielends as well :s thoee who pre keut on thoi, that thry
mey bo cu:blrd to ra-unite aud to contrioute, unuer tize proteotlon
of the U. . Occu stion forons, "omrthin to inoreased rodactiom
for our country, which is urgently reouired.
 avoil of this ovnortunity to rarseure our devosios to Yeur
"xoellenay, no prry for your herlth mnd hp iness.
Cmirman.
The Gesmitto

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.90)
D
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
AAFE
Tokyo, April 3, 1947
DIVISION OF
UNCLASSIFIED
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
Nc. 957
APRI B1547
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SUBJECT:
Forwardin Copy of Petition for Restoration of Islands
Belonging to Hokkaido.
1)
The United States Political Adviser has the honor to refer to
this Mission's despatch no. 91 dated March 4. 1947, and to previous
correspondence regarding the return from Russian jurisdiction to
994.014/4-347
Japanese jurisdiction of certein 1slends adjacent to Hokkaido, and
to forward a copy of the En lish text of a petition dated March 24,
1947, filed at this Headquarters by HoNIA Takeshi, representing the
members of the House of Representatives from Hokkaido.
The petition requests the return of the following named islands
of the Kurile Archipelago to Japanese jurisdiction:
The Shikotan Group (including Shikoten, Taraku, Shibateu,
SE
Suisho, Yuri, and Akiyuro), constituting a part of
PA
Nemuro Province on the main island of Hokkaido; and
Mw
D
The Islands of Southern Kuriles, i.e., Etorofu and Kunashiri.
CPD
MIS
ON1
Enclosure:
CIG
Copy of petition dated
March 24, 1947.
894.014
Original and hectograph to Department.
JUN 11 1947
Capy to: American Embassy, Moscow.
FILED
STATE
2
C
1
Jnit
801.45
EED
EP 
Gabbey:lh
Ana
18.
18
1947 APR 14
Uai
Dis

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 957 dated April 3, 1947 from the United
States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject "Forwarding
Copy of Petition for Restoration of Islands Belonging to Hokkaide".
COPY
To His Excellency General of the Army
Douglas MecArthur.
P E T I T I O N
We, the undersigned members of the House of Representatives
clected from Hokkaido, have the honor to present to Your Ixcellency
this petition concerning certain islands of the Kurile Archipelago
now under Soviet military occupation, -- to wit:
The Shikotan Group (including Shikotan, Taraku, Shibatou,
Suisho, Yuri, and Akiyuri), constituting a part of Nemuro
Province on the main island of Hokkaido.
The Islands of Southern Kuriles, i.e. Etorofu and Kunashiri.
These islands, which are en integral part of Japan, are now oc-
cupied by the armed forces of the Soviet Union. Since all the com-
munications with Hokkaido heve been cut off, the local populace is
subjected to reat difficulties and hardships. We beg to submit a
statement of our cese as follows:
Statement
1. The Shikotan group which is now under Soyiet Occupation belonged
administratively to the Province of Nemuro on the main island of
Hokkaido even under the regime of the Tokugawa Shogunate. Geograph-
ically, the group lies outside the Kurile Archipelago.
The islands of Etorofu and Kunashiri, situated close to the
Shikotans, were definitely recognized as Japenese territory by the
Russo-Japanese Treaty of Commerce of 1854. The Sagahlien-Kuriles
Exchange Treaty concluded between Japan and Russia in 1875, does not
mention these two islands, but provides only for the exchange of
Uruppu and the islands to the north for Sagahlien.
It will give indisputably a proof thet these two islands as well
as the Shikotan islands were always under Japanese possessions. Certain-
ly not a territory taken from Russia by "violence or greed" to borrow
the words of the Cairo Declaration. It only so happened that follow-
ing the above-mentioned exchange, the Japanese have used the name
"Chishima" as a generic term to cover the whole Kurile Archipelago.
2. Btorofu and Kunashiri as well as Shikotans have been for the past
200 years the home of Japanese fishermen. Their inhabitants are close-
ly bound with the people of Hokkaido economically as well as in blood.
Now the complete severance of communication between these islands
and the main island of Hokkaido have given rise to the following
sisuation:
(a) The fishermen in northern Hokkaido have lost their most
important fishing grounds for crabs, salmon, and ced, and also
rich Kombu (odible ses weed) fielde. The loss of these asee
epesatáng ia d jacent watere. Por, if shey sheald stzey

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Enclosure to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 957,
April 3, 1947.
capture and detention.
(b) In case these islands are placed permanently under Soviet
rule, the proximity of the Japanese and Soviet possessions is
likely to lead to endless troubles and the Japanese fishermen
will be subjected to constant fear.
(c) The 17,000 Japanese settlers on these islands will be
deprived of their livelihood as well as their homesteads. The
settlers if forcibly repatriated to Hokkaido may cause a new
burden to the island that is already suffering from the short-
age of foodstuff.
(a) One-third of Japan's fishery products used to come from
Hokkaido; and one-third of the Hokkaido fishery products from
the Nemuro and Chishime erea. The loss of these islands will
cause acute shortage in the protein food supply for the
Japanese people.
Under the sympathetic guidance of the U.S. Occupation Army the
people of Hokkaido. have made a rapid progress toward democracy. We,
who heve been elected to the Diet es their representatives according
to their freely expressed will, cannot but have deep concern over the
possible plight of that part of our homelend and that section of our
people, who are shut off behind an "iron curtain."
It is reported that the Soviet government has decided to make all
the Soviet occupied territories permanent Soviet possessions. Such a
decision, unilateral as it may well be, cannot but fill us with grave
apprehensions. The undersigned on behalf of our fellow citizens of
Hokkaido do hereby most respectfully appeal to Your Excelloncy for
your good offices in order that these little islands which have been
always Japanese may remain Japanese, and free intercourse may be re-
established between these islands and the main island of Hokkaido.
24th March 1947
Members of the House of
Representatives from Hokiaido.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.93)
W
S POLITICAL ADVISER
OR JAPAN
ESP
STATE
Tokyo, July 14, 1947
SPA
1947 JL 22 PM 3 5 5
UNCLASS IFIED
Ho. 1166
DC/M
DIVISION OF JAD KOREAN
FICLITIS BRANCH
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AUG 2 1 1947
SUBJECT:
Minor Islands Adjacent to Japan.
人
The Ünited States Political Adviser has the honor to refer to
this Mission's despatch no. 957 of April 3, 1947 concerning the
restoration of islands formerly belonging to Japan, and to despatch
no. 844 dated February 26, 1947 submitting Part I of a study
15S
by the Foreign Office of the Japanese Government, entitled
701R
Islands Adjacent to Japan Proper". Parts II nd III of th
OCD
wow been published and five copies of each are enclosed.
SP.
A
794.01412
17
advv.
copiem each of Parts II
"Minor Islands
Unt to Japan Proper ".
rch 1947.
Original and osalid to Department.
CS
801.45
RHBushner:1h
SEF 3 194

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.96)
Enc losure to 1 w116 iom Tokyo
MINOR ISLANDS
ADJACENT TO
JAPAN PROPER
m
894.014
PART II.
RYUKYU AND OTHER NANSEI ISLANDS
7
-1447
FOREIGN OFFICE
JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
MARCH 1947

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.96)
For information of the Allied authorities

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.93)
NANSEI ISLANDS
122
130°
132
KYUSHU
KAGOSHIMA PREFECTURE
OSUMI
(SATSUNAN GROUP)
Kackino Shima
30
30
Naa
Sumanese
TOKARA
Watase Line
Takara
Yokoste:
Amam 0Sh
Kakeroma
OKINAWA PREFECTURE
(RYUKYU GROUP)
Ichorno Shi
AMAMI
Oki no yeraky
Lioya 15.
OYorem
Isene8
Iyeom
Kita Daite
26
OKINAWA
Sentolslands
Miyakolslands
Yayeyamalsla
SAKISHIMA

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.96)
EARLYDAYS
Probably around 3rd. cen
migrating race from the conti
Japan Proper (B.H. Charibute to
th century.
Some of the um
seitled in thes
fled t
nder Rvuk uan control
after 13th. century.
Sakishimo
Shunten founded first Ryukyu dynasty
in 12th.century.
mI
17th.-18th.century.
Prefecture
After the Expedition
mited Japanese
Shimazu's direct Domais
The kingdom made a sort
of Shimazu's protecterat
But allowedbcontinue
tribute to China.

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.90)
Ⅱ
12th-14th.century
Asuma
Resumen tbule to
Tokara
Inthe 8th.
Japan in 15 hreetury
Paid tribute to Chin.
B
Under Ryukyuan centrel
after 13th. century.
Under Ryukyuan control
after 14th century.
Shinten founded first Ryulyu dymasty
n12th.century.
N
After Meiji Restoration
Kagostuma Prefecturt
SCAP Jay 29,194 Iimited Japanese
mistratin tatho north of 30N
The Prefectural Governments.
Prefecture.
Okinawa

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.97)
CONTENTS
Page
I. Physical Geography
1
II. The Origin of the Nansei Islanders
3
III. History of the Ryukyu Group
1. The Ryukyu Dynasties
5
2. `Relations with Japan
6
3. Relations with China
8
IV. History of the Satsunan Group
9
V. The Ryukyu Problem after the Meiji Restoration
10
J. Sino-Japanese Negotiations concern-
ing'Ryukyu
10
2. Attitude of the Powers toward the
Ryukyu Problem
13
一
VI. Conditions of the Nansei Islands prior to
Japanese Surrender
14
J. Government
14
2. Education
14
3. Economy
14
4. Population
16
5.. Culture
17
6. Meteorological Observatories
18

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.98)
Japan's southwestern islands, which form & chaind stretching 570
long between Kyushu and Formosa and along the eastern fringe of the a
China Sea, are called collectively the Nansei Islands (Note ).
The archipelago comprises two principal island groups: the Sat
constitutes the main part of Okinawa Prefecture. These groupe an
divided into five sub-groupe, as shown in the table below, there being
islands in all, of which 25 have areas pf 4 squste miles or more (Not a).
THE SATSUNAN GROUP (total area 922 sq.m.)
(KAGOSHIMA PREFECTURE)
Osumi Sub-group
Tanega shima (173 sq.m.)*
(total area 406 sq.m.) :
Yaku (208 sq.m.).
Kuchino-Yeraba
Tokara Sub-group
Kuchino shima
(total area 35 sq.m.):
Nakano shims
Suwapose
Amami 'Sub-group
Amami-Oshima (274..m.)
(total area 481 sq.m.) :
Kikai
Kakeroma
Uke
Tokuno shima (98 sq.m.)
Okino-Yerabu,
Yorom
THE RYUKYU GROUP (total area 810 sq.m.)
(OKINAWA PREFECTURE)
Okinawa Sub-group
Okinawa (471 q.m.)
(total area 518 sq.m.):

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.98)
Sakishima Sub-group
(total area 292 sq.m.) :
Miyako Islands:
Miyako
Lrabu
Tarama
Yaeyama Islands: Ishigaki (85 sq.m.)
Iromote (110 sq.m.)
Yonaguni
Hateruma
* (The areas of istands smaller than 40 square mües are not given).
There are two other isolated groups, Daito and Sento, which are admm
stratively included also in Okinawa Prefecture. Of these, the Daito group
will be dealt with in another chapter, while the Sento Islands (total area 2
sq. m.) lying north of Sakishima sub-group are uminhabited and of little im-
portance.
The "Nansei" is a geographic term of recent date. On the other hand,.
the southern portion of the archipelago, with Okinawa as the center, which
constituted formerly a semi-independent country, has been known as Ryukyu
(also spelled Riu-Kiu), or more widely among Occidentals, as Luchu.(pened
variously, Lew Chew, Loochoo, Liu Chiur, :etc.). Sometimes, "Ryukyu" is
applied as a generic name to the entire archipelago (Pirective of the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers, 29 January 1946). Here, however, the.
term is used in the original restricted sense to designate what was formerly
the so called "Kingdom" of Ryukyu (Note 3).
Most of the islands are ragged and barren. A few in the south, having
comparatively large areas of level ground, are mostly composed of elevated
coral reefs. Water supply is generally ina'dequate. Fierce typhoons are
frequent in summer and autumn, while in winter there blows a strong mon-
soon.
The Kuroshio (Japan Stream), which flows northvard along the eastern
coast of Formosa to the west 'of the Nansei Islands, cuts across the island chain
between the Osumí and Amami sub-groups passing out again to the eastern
side.
. Note 3. (1) The Enc3clopedis. Britonnica (14th edition) places Ryukyu to the south
of 3o° N. including the Tokaras and the Amamis.
(2) According to Lippincott's Gasetter of the World and Commodore Perry's
Nerrative of'the Risbedition of an American Squadron to the Chine Seas and
Jepas, Byukyu lHes to the south of 28'40' N. Including the Aimamis.

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.94)
-The path of this current corresponds to the bo
the archipelago into the northern and southern partg cu
in the distribution of fauna and fora (Note 4).
Another dividing line further to the south is suggested by M. Ha
who from the view point of birds would include the Sakishima sub-group
the same region with Formosa. This is called the "Okinawa Line" (Note S),
Il. The Origin of the Nansei Lalanders.
According to Anthropometrical researches made thus far, the present
inhabitants of the Amami sub-group ad islands to the north bear greater
resemblance to the inhabitants of Kyushu than those of the Okinawa sib
group and islands to the south (Note 6).
Howeyer even the latter, generally called Ryukyuans, can be regarded
from the view point of the physical characteristics, as a local typa of 
Japanesa race (Note 7).
Note 4. (1) According to Alexander Supan, German geographer, thbe isothermal e
of the annuad average of 20 C, which divides the tropical zone and the
temperate zone, also runs between the Osumi Islands and the Amami Islands.
This line has been adopted in Japan as a climatical boundary ine.
Alexander Supan: Grundsüge der pysischen Erdkunde. 1896.
FUKUI, Eichiro: Climate in Japan, 1941.
(2) The above mentioned line is regarded as the demarantion Hne in the
distribution of vegetation, separating the southern temperate zone from the
sub-tropical zone.
(3) With regard to the distribution of fauna, the late Professor WATASE,
Shozabura recognized a boundary line between the Oaumi sub-group and the
Amami sub-group, which divides the Palapoarctlc region and, the, Orieptal
region. This line was. named the "Watase Line" by Dr. OKADA,' Yaichird
in 1924.
OKADA, Yaichiro: A study on the Distribution of Tailless Batrachisns of
Japan, 1924.
Note 5.
Hachisuka, M.: Avifawma of Rin Kiu Islands, 1926.
Note :6.
OSHIMA (later, SUDA), Akiyoshi: "Anthropological Researches on the
Amami-Oshima" (Jhiruigaku Zassi=The Journal of the Anthropological Society
of Tokya, Vol. 43, 1928).
Note 7.
Japanese
Ryakyusm
Height
157 — 164 c. m.
157 — 150 0. m.
Head length
188 - 198 m.m.
187 - 191 m.m.
Hend breadth
147 — 154 m.m.
149,-.150m.h.
Bisygomatic breadth
140146 m.m.
Morphologlaal 'face height
115-137 m.m.
Eas height of head
120 — 183 m.m.
Déphalle breath indez
76-88
Oophalic löngth index
08-72
(Research' made by Assistdpt Professor Suzuki, Sentinar pt
Tokyo Imperial University):

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.96)
This can be confirmed by the archeological
the ancesters of the present Ryukyuans kad common
Japanese.
For instance:
1. Small domesticated dogs of the stone age unearthed in the matn
island of Okinawa closely resemble the dogs of the stone age of southern
Kyushu and! Honshu of Japan (Conis familiaris Nipponensis primus). Thoe
dogs are believed to have migrated to these islands together with their masters
(Note 8, Illustration 1).
2. Bones of ancient man unearthed in the main island of Okinawa also
resemble those of the stone age of Japan (Note 9, Illustration II).
3. Old stone implements and earthenwares, in spite of their consider-
able local peculiarities, also reveal features in common with those of Japan
proper, especially southern Kyushu (Note 10).
4. Linguistically, both the Ryukyu language and the Japanse langge
belong to the same system. Sho Sho-ken, a native scholar and statesman of
Ryukyu in the 1 7th century, noted such linguistic connections and propounded
the identity of the origin of the Japanese and Ryukyuans (Note 11).
Commodore Perry who visited Ryukyu in May, 1853 says in his Nerrattve
of the Expedition of an American Squadron to the China Seas and Japan (Chap.
XVII, p. 365) as follows:
 The island seems to be peopled by two distinct races, the Japanese
and the Lew Chewan, properly so called. They both have originally
sprung, however, from the same stock..
The Japanese and the Lew Chewans differ slightly from each other,
the latter being more effeminate and somewhat less intelligent, but this
imay be owing to their simple, retired life, upon a remote island, whrre
their wants are few, and nature is generous. They have, however, ch
strong resemblances that it is almost impossible to resist the conviction
of their sameness of origin.
Concerning the origin of the Nansei islanders, Basil Hall Chamberlain,
Note 8. Dr. MiYAkE, Soetsu: "Domesticated Dogs of the Shett-mound of Sak
Gawa" (Jhurmigaku Zassi, Vol. 47, 1932).
Note 9. Dr. KANBSEkI, Takeo: "On the Human Bones unearthed from the 
mound at Gusukudake of Naha City, Okina wa" (Jinrwigaks Zaasi. Vol 
1939).
Note 1o. Verlons archaeotogical treatises of Dr. MIYAkE, Sooha, on enathe
(Delmon, Vols. 3 & 4, 1934–-5).
Süo sho-ken states In his "Shtokr" of 1673 to th

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.92)
in bhe beek The Grodgmer and Dlesieinery inf the L
A glance at the map shows Kyushu.to be th
conquering race to have entered the country a  dat
third century of the Christian era;—for the geographicak
mentioned by the Chinese historians of that century have as
ably Japanese ring. From Kyushu the invaders would have
forward East and North,
Now is it not intrinsically probable that, while the main body move
or weaklings should have wandered south,—driven perhaps by def
internecine strite to take setuge in the little archipelago, whose e
e yfrom the gult of Kago
Great Luchu?
Racial and linguisiuc affinities would thus find a very simple ex-
planation, while the distance in time and space amply apcounts for th
existing differences.
The names of many islands and also certain old legends indleate h
affiation between ancient Japan and the Nansei Islands (Note 12, Ne
III. History of the Ryukyu Gremp.
1. The Ryukyu Dynasties.
about the close of the 12th century by Shunten, said to be a
for three generations. In the middle of the 13th century, th
Omanososhbi, a Ryukya oplc of varty satle esatory.
Mote 86.
Ts-

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.98)
the succesding dynasty of Eiso grew in power ao that
such westera islands as Kume, Kerama and Ibeya: It was also im
that even Amami-Oshima was.put under the control of Ryukyu
After the beginning of the 14th century, however, the island was thnown
into chaos, and was divided into three so-called "Hills", each Hill having its
own leader.
About that time, Satto, the leader of the central Hill, paid tribute to China
for the first time at the latter's demand. Eventually the house of Sattq. gained
ascendence over the two other Hills and extended its sway as far south a the
islands of Miyako and Yaeyama.
At the beginning of the 15th century, Sho-Hashi establishing his control
over the southern and northern Hills achieved the unification of the kimgdom
(1429). Prosperity was brought to the country through trade with Japan,
China and south sea regions. This dynasty, after having lasted for six genera-
tions, was replaced by the Sho-En dynasty which continued under 19:rulers
for 410 years up to the days of Meiji. The power of the Ryukyu momarchy
was at its zenith in the days of Sho-Shin, the third ruler of the dynasty, his
influence being extended as far as Amami-Oshima in the north and Sakishima
in the south. In 1609 Ryukyu was conquered by SHiMAZl&, Jehisa, feudal
Lord of Satsuma, and the country wa's definitely placed under Japane suze-
rainty.
2. Relations with Japan.
Acoording to the Nihon Shoki (Chronicle of Japan) written in 720 D.
(the reign of Empress Gensho) and the Shoku Nihongi (Supplemeatary
Chronicle of Japan) written in 797 .D. (the reign of Emperor Kammh).
Japan's relations with Nansei Islands date back as early as 616d (the reiga
of Empress Suiko). It is recorded that tribute bearers from Kume and labi.
gaki islands arrived in Japan in the year, 714 A.D. (the reign of Empress Gan
myo). The people coming from these islands werd cordially received, granted
court ranks and family names. . Some of them settled down in Japan and
were naturalized. The imperial, court also despatched missions to thele far.
oft islands.
Towards the end of the 9th century these relations gradually began to
weaken. Especially from the middle of the 14th century, owing to political
disturbances prevailing in Japan proper as well as in Ryukyu, the offieial inter-
paurse between Japan and Ryukyu was greatly curtailed. It seems, however
that oultural and commercial relations continued to be maintained even during
that period. Ancient tiles considered to be those of the Heian and Kamakura
eras of Japan (the 11th—12th centuries) have been unearthed in Ryukyu.
and many other facts have come to light, showing the influence of pld Japanese
culture upon religion, architecture and painting. The offcial documents in

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.93)
Ryukyu in those days were written in Japanese (Illustration ll)- tadad
style.
of 1609, which was undertaken by order of the Shogun. As
expedition the main island of Okinawa and the islands to the south w
granted self-governing status under the existig dynasty. A magistrate ap-
pointed by Lord Shimazu was stationed at Naha (principal city on the island
of Okinawa) to supervise domestic and external affairs of the local govern-
ment (Note 16).
Commo re Per u te in he Nurratre (Chap. X1, p. 254) from. D.
oe te.ne.n. a.
Rwho helieved for several
good reasons", that "the country, though independent to a certain extent, (its
ruler being permitted, for a good contribution to Pekin, to assume the high-
sounding title of king), yet is, to all ends and purposes, an integral part of
Japan".
One of the important objects of Lord Shimazu's control of Ryukyu was
to supervise its trade with China, which had been carried in the ferm of
tributes. Lord Shimazu not only allowed Ryukyu to remain nominally
tributary state of China but loaned money to encourage the twade and shared
in the profits (Note 17, Illustration IV).
The Shimazu expedition enhanced the infuence of Japamese culeppe lm
Ryukyu. Buddhism and medical science were introduced from Jap per;
mochi, who was the then Shogun of Japan, sent a reply to the Lendtae
the begiasing of the ressmption af tributes by Ryakyk.
to z the ambunt of tazes, do speciiy the expeadtare af the Rrekye geeare
mene and to determine the amount of ammpad tribute.
frem. Roakye.
Note 19.

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.97)
the teméo Japanédé pooms of thirty-one syllables, the tes
noh drems became populer as they are even to-day.
Ryukyu which had remained & sort of protectorate of Lord Shimamu fer
260 years was incorporated in 1872 as an integral part of Jape undrthe
dinect control of the newly established Meiji Government. In 1879, Okimewa
Prefecture was instituted with governor appointed by the central government,,
and the former ruling house of Ryukyu was granted peerage with the title of
Marquis.
3. Relations with China.
It is generally believed that China's relatons wtih Ryukyu began ia 1372
when Tai-Tzu, founder of the Ming dynasty dispatched a mission to demand
the Ryukyuans topay tribute to his court (Note 18). The clan of the Central
Hill complied and secured China's assistance, unified the country and set up
the Ryukyu dynasty. Thereafter missions bearing gifts were regularly sent
from Ryukyu to China.
China sent a mission whenever a new suler was installed in Ryukyu to
grant him recognition. No Chinese functionaries were stationed in Ryukyu
(Note 19).
B.H. Chamberlain says in his essay "The Lüchu Islands and their in.
habitants" published in The Geographical Journal, Vol. V, April, 1895, p. 344.:
The Chinese over-lordship, on the other hand, was rather nominal
than real, and the so-called tribute-ships despatched annually to Puchan
did such good strokes of business under the rose, that the Luchuans
actually requested to be allowed to send more tribute to China than the
amount originally stipulated!
Further, in the same page he writes "tribute ships—in other words,
trading-ships".
When a Ryukyu mission brought tributes to China and paid its respects
Note 18. (1) In protest against the 1875 Japanese disposition of Ryukyu, the then
Chinese Government mentioned the, year 1372 as marking the begimnlng of
tributary relations of Ryukyu to China
(2) In the Sui-Shu (History of Sul dynasty) it is recorded that in the third
year of Ta-Yeh (607 A.D.) in the reign of Emperor Yang-Ti of the Sui dynasty.
a mission visited a country called "Lu Chu" by imperial'order..
The identity of this "Lu Chu" is a moot qudstion. Some schotars, inclading
Dr. Gustave schlegel, belleve'that it was the island of Pormosa.
1924.
Dr. Gustave Schlegel: "Le Pays de Lieou-Kieou," Toung Pao, Vl, 1895, pp.
165-215.
Note 19.
(1) From China missions were sent at long intervalsonly 15 times in 230
years.
(2) The omcial documents of Ryukyu usad the Chinese calendar. One of
these is dated "Sth day of the 2nd month, the sth year of Lungwe" (lllustra-
tion V), the Ryukyuans being evidently unaware of the fact that in Chjne the
Lungga era lasteg. only one year.
(8)

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.97)
to her court, China would give in return far more then what
And the comodities which were brought to Chins tegethay
butes were all purchased by the Chinese government agencies 
times the current prices. Such being the case, Ryukyu could co
tive trade with China in the name of tribute.
Ryukyu naturally wanted to pay tributes as frequently as poi
sent a mission almost every year. China, on the contrary, destred to 
the tribute mission to once every two years, and later to once every three or
tive years.
After l.ord Shimazu's expedition, China tightened the limitation to once
every ten years However, at the insistance of Ryukyu, a tribute mission was
tll ent ever three veat beside numerous other missions under various
(hinesereligion.
literature, arts and cratts nto Ryukyu At ihe end of the 14th century 36
Chinese families came to the main island of Okinawa and founded the village
of Kume, which later became the center of Chinese culture in'Ryukyu.
Even after the resumption of tribute to Japan carly in the 15th century
Ryukyu continued its tributary relations with China until 1875.
IV. History of the Sateumam Group.
The northern half of the Nansei Islands which constitutes a part of Kago-
shima Prefecture, was historically bound with closer ties with Japan peeger
than the Ryukyu group. The fact that the inhabitants of these islands together.
with Ryukyuans maintained contact with the Imperial Court of Yamtato 
the 7th century is recorded in early Japanese chronicies. (see page 6). 
the Sth century Japan established the Province of Tane, comprielng Tamega
shima and adjacent islands, which was placed under a governer 
by the central government. When Tane Province was abolfshed l , the
island group was incorporated into the Prevince of Osumi, Kyushu, a 
tinued to remain a Japanese possession, being used sometimes a a pl
colony.
In 1185 when the Tairas, which had dominated Japan, were drieem t
of power by the rival clan of Minamoto, a number of the defeste claasme
fled to Kyushu—thence to these islands as far south as Tokara and Ammah
where they settled permanently. Today'there are on these stands memy
families who trace their ancestry to the ancient clan of Taira (Nete 2o).
In 1188, SHiMAZU, Tadahtma, the first feudal lord of Setsume'm seu-
 Kyusku, was appointed overlord of the "Pwelye Lalands on  S
Sea", which are preswmably, to be identifßed with the tetends of the

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.96)
ster by the Shimasu clan (Note 21) until the Melfi Reeterad
or Ryukyuans (Note 22).
government began to wane from the close of the 9th century, it was spat up
among powerful families, who are believed to have moved in from Ryukyu,
and who plunged the islands into the turmoil of petty warfate. In f266 the.
islands passed under the control of the Ryukyu Kingdom, to which they pald
tribute. However, with the decline of Ryukyu in the 16th entury the slands
rose in rebellion, necessitating the kingdom to carry out three punitive ex-
peditions in succession.
This sub-group was the first to be occupied by the conquering atimy f
Lord Shimazu in 1609, and it was put under the direct administration of ttm
Shimazu clan, whilt Ryukyu itself was made a sort of protectorate (see page
7)
The Shimazus stationed magistrates and numerous administrative oietals
in the islands, and encouraged the sugar industry which came to be am im-
portant source of the clan revenue.
Like the Tokaras, the Amami Islands also provided refuge for the Taira
clansmen, whose settlement on the islands together with the later infux of
Shimazu officials undoubtedly served to infuse the blood of the istanders with
a fresh Japanese strain. This group was with the rest of the Shimazu dpmain
incorporated into Kagoshima Prefecture after the Meiji Restoratio.
V. The Ryukyu Problomd'after the Meiji Restoratiem.
1. Sino-Japanese Negotiations concerning Ryukyu.
When the Japanese Government prohibited Ryukyu to pay tribute to
Note 21.
It was the Amami sub-group that Lord Shimazu frst landed ln the expedi-
tion in 1609, the Osumi and the Tokara sub-groups having tizd been territory
of his cian.
Note 22.
(1) The Chasss Seife (Chronology of the Ryukyu dynasles) writtem ta
1724 by Sai Om khown as one of the most important historlcal works by
Ryukyuans, contains a map which excludes from Ryukyu the Osumi and the
Tokara sub-groups.
Hais Lu (Historical Records of the Rykya dymastles) by Ban Pa
and dsa the Lin: Chiu Kue Chik L= (History of Rynkyé) by

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.92)
China in 1875, the Chinese Governmeat protestedt
Japanese negotiations were opened,.
was because China had recognized Ryukyu as an ledepes
that China, though well awate of the fact that Ryukyu was ala 
to Japan, toletated Ryukyu's relations with Japan. Japan by
rating Ryukyu into her territory, in disregard of the above-montlomed
status of Ryukyu, violated Article 1 of the Sino-Japanese Treaty of
Amity providing for mutual respect of territorial sovereignty.
The Japanese argument was (Note 24):
Ryukyuans had
wned aliegiance do lapa 
d tpan nd actually
administered the country trom 1609.
2. China did not file any protest against Lord Shimazu's exped-
tion of 1609. China had lost her claims, if any, over Ryukyu since
that time.
vassalage to China. Did not China consider even English and Itallam
missions as tribute bearers?
4. When Ryukyuans were massacred in Formosa in 1871, 
Japanese Government despatched a punitive expeditiom. As the rel
of the subsequent Sino-Japanese negotlations between OKUBO. Teah.
mitsu, and the Tsungli-Yamen, China recognised Japanese mationay
of the Ryukyuans and the justificableness of the Japamese expeden.
(Note 25).
Ho Lu Chang to Foreign Mtsister M. Tereshtme of Jepen, Gesed reepoettnd
October 7, 1878 and Jume 10, s879 and aso in the mote adesed.te Sa
nese Minister Shishido under date of May 10, 1879.
Note 24.
seatstien of the Chlpese Goverament" of Septesber, 1879.
".... Cortadan Japanese oubjocts beving bode watstonty to
redlalmed sevages of Fermese, ....
ment of Jagen fee the e
the Caverapnent Chlne  st hee

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.97)
3. It was inconsistent to object to Japan's
as a violation of Chinese sóvereighty while assert
independent state.
In 1879, when General U.S. Grant, the retired Prendent of U.S.A.,
visited Japan, he exercised good offices between the two governments i their
controversy over the Ryukyu question and advised China to seek an ami-
cable settlement through direct negotiation with Japan (Note 26).
The negotiation was thus resumed between the Japanese Minister Shishi-
do, and the Chinese Tsungli-Yamen. On October 21, 1880, poth parties
agreed upon the draft of treaties to the effect that Japan would cede to China
a part of her territory, namely the two southernmost island groups of Ryukyu:
Miyako and Yaeyama (Note 27), and that China would permit Japanese sub-
jects to carry on commerce in the interior of China. It was also agreed that
the ceremony of signing the treaties would take place within tem days and the
exchange of ratifications in about three months. However, the Chinese Gov-
ernment deferred signing, and replied finally on November 17 that the treaties
could got be signed as prior authorisation of the Southern and Northern Com-
mercial Ministers had not been secured. Thus the negotiation was dropped,
and Japan continued to hold as before all the Ryukyu Islands..
It was British Minister Sir Thomas Wade who used his good oices in this
incident.
Note 26.
Letter from General Grant to Prince Kund & Viceroy Li dated, Tokio, Auguit
13th, 1879:
Since my arrival in Japan 1 have been favored with several interviews
with the Cabinet of His Majesty the Emperor on the subject which His High-
nest Prince Kung and His Excellency Viceroy Li-Hung Chang have so much
at heart,—to wit an honorable and satisfactory settlement of the Liew Chiew
question, a settlement which win be alike honorable to both pations, While
the statement of facts relating to this question, as stated by the Japanese
side differ in many material points from the statements made to me both in
Peking and Tientsin, yet I feel that what I have heard here will Justify me
in saying that the Japanese are most anxious to preserve the most amicable
relations with China, and to this end would magnanimously make sscrifices of
what she believes to be ber just rights, if Chins would meet her In that same
spirlt. But in the beated controversy which has already taken place between
the two Governments on the Liew Chiew questiom there has been one or
more communications on the part of Chins so threstening in tone,, or if not
threatening so offensive, that I do not belleve thát the Jepanese would consent
to treat. with any commissioner from the other side untll Chins consented
to withdraw such despatch or despatches.
This being done, I belleve Japan would gladly appoint a camemissioner.
or commissioners, from among her able citizens to méet a like commissioner
or comamesionera appointed In üke manner by China from among her own
representative -citizens.
Note s. The boundary lize tentatively agreed upan as a result of thle negotiation
: colneldes with the so-called "Okinawa Lipe" In soogoography (See page 3),
(1)

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.97)
2. Attitude of the Powers toward the
Commodore Perry concluded on July 11, 1834
which he regarded as a dependency of Japan (Note 28).
Government informed the U.S. Government in September
corporation of Ryukyu in Japan proper (See page sy. th U.
Japan, C.E. De Long, in his reply dated October. 20 of the sams yes,
no objection to the incorporation, only asking the Japanese Governt
Ryukyu (Illystration- VI).
The Japanese envoy in Washington was informed to similar 
the U.S. Secretary of State (Note 29).
France and the Netherlands had also concluded treaties with Ry
respectively on November 24, 1855 'and on July 6, 1859. However,
of the two countries made representations to Japan in commectlen wit
disposition of Ryukyu of 1872. - When the .Prefecture of Okinawa
blished in Ryukyu in 1879, the Japanese Minister to France was instructe
explain the historical background of the event to the French Gove
He reported to his government in his letter of November 14, 1879, th
saw no need of demarche since the treaty between Ryukyu and Frapce
not contained in the treaty series compiled by the French Goverament
mereover the European newspapers mostly justified the steps of the Jam
Governments
The Italian charge d'affaires in Tokio expressed in a letter dated August
27, 188o, the desire of his government to share the rights enjoyed by the
other Powers in Ryukyu.
No exchange took place with other countries concerning this proby
Note 28. Dennett, T.: Americans in Eastern Asia, 1922 p. 274:
for his squadron and successfully negotiated for a coal dapot at Napet
had the best harbor. During the followlign sutumn he kept one or ueses
vessels of the fleet stationed there constantly, and just before ble
his intention of placing Great Lew Chew under the Ameriesn ag:
"It is my intention, should the Japanese Govermment retuse te
under surveillance of the American fag. upon the ground of reck
insults and injuries committed upon Américan citisens, thts'd
Lew Chewy a dependeney of the Empire, to be beld under rest
decision of my Government shall be known, whethed to wvow
acts".
Note 29.
A. Mori, Japanese envoy to the United States, reported I
Minister T. Soejima dated November 20, 1872, that t was
was no objection on the part of the U.S. Secrftary of
by、Jayan.
(18)

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.93)
VL. Condle of t Nl  pr to
1. Government.
Following the establishment of Okinawa Prefectuee Im, 18?
of Okinawa Prefecture had their representatives in both Housesglaws
ture, there was no difference from other prefectures while in Kore and Po
mosa the organization of the courts was different from that of Japan prope.
The Amami Island Group and other islands to the north constituted
part of Kagoshima Prefecture.
Education in Okinawa Prefecture was carried out in the same way a in
any other prefecture. In 1931 there existed 141 primary schools, 10 mi
to receive higher aducation came to the mainland of Japa. It is 
that the number of the people of Okinawa Prefecture whe have
43 thousands. Many of those who have received higher etsci a
occupying important posts in the government and business circes 
211
3. Economy.
Owing to its meagre resources Okinawa Prefecture can hany t
self sufficient economy.
Okinawa lives on agriculture with some manufacturing industries, ag
cultural families comprising about 76 per cent of the total mumhps of 
holds. The chief products are sugat-canes (13,322,167 Ym  1940)
sweet potatos (27,140,423 Yen in 1940), the plantation for both 
in area 75 per cent of the total cultivated land. Being mountameeus, t
by typhooms. Rice planting therefore gradually docreased so that.s
ammual crop could meet only 16 per cont of the local come
comupriees 58 per cent of the industrial production and 54 par-dest 
expert of the Prefecture.
Okiaame Papfecture had to lempost a large quantity of rtny
Sabary praducte such as dried boalle, and shole
()

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.92)
Okinawa able to do away with the ennees
taking advantage of the local climatla con
produce to the malaland. Okinawa is of vital la
ture. The losger leafing season of mulberry trees and ather fet
tic conditions in the prefecture render possible the rap reeding 
silkworm species to be supplied to other regions of Japen.
130
Furthermore, the improvement of the sweet potatos by cross firtittaatiom
is only possible in Okinawa since the plant does not efforence d
to the new species originated in Okinawa.
Rice, which is the most important item of import, used to be pp
lirgely by Formosa in the pre-war days. On the other hand, sugar, Ot
nawa's major product, was exported exclusively to the msinland as Japan
ducts of Okinawa, such as textiles, hats, porcelain, etc. were all arket
in the mainland while the raw materials for textiles, excopt banana-abre
fabric, were imported therefrom. Thus the economy of Okinawa Prefecture
was maintained principally only in relation to the mainland of Japan.
In the Amami Island Group which constitutes a part of Kagoshima Pre-
fecture, there prevailed economic conditions somewhat similar to those of
Okihawa, their main products being the sweet potato and sugar cane. How-
ever the relative importance of sugar cultivation was greater in these islands
than in Okinawa, owing to the fact that its cultivation had been spocially
encouraged under the Shimazu regime. Not only rice but also materials for
clothing and housing as well as daily necessaries had also to be imported from
the mainland.
(1) Excess of import over export is very high, as showm la the tater-pre
Note 30.
fectural trade statistics through Naka, practically the only port of Okimewa
Year
Export.
Import
Exoem of Immpast (Yen)
1981
12.270.058
18.164.230
1983
11,908.886
19.721.810
1988
17,952.968
21,867.900
1984
17,882.297
25,684.019
1985
18.048,118
26,686.500
1906
19.468,818
27,495,890
1987
31,452.641
26.407.407
1988
24.665.875
20.822.100
1000
81,060.060
34.002.188
1940
87,650,070
40,086,987

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.93)
4.Pepulation.
Acoording to the tetisus of 194e, the poputation of O
stood at 374,368. Its increase has recenitly come to a sta
of the increase of emigration to the mainland and oversssThe
tively high excess of the number of females over that of máles (fe
303, 816: males, 270,552) is attributable to the fact that more mates emigrate.
The number of the natives of Okinawa who lived in the: mainland of
Japan at the time of surrender was estimated at 268,400, of whom 180,000
had long been settled in the mainland and engaged in, activities in: vasiaus
circles and 53,000 had moved in during the war (Note 31). About 90,o00.
men are married to. women of other prefecture. On the other hand, in 4930
there were 7,512 people from other prefectures settled in Okinawa. Some
of them are married to native women. The number of immigrants from
Formosa or China proper is negligible.
As for the total population of the Satsunan group, it stood in 1940. at
244,055, of which males numbered 114,391 and females 129,664. The
proportion of males to females indicates that here again mere males emigrate.
(2) Principal commodities imported and exported through the port of Nake
were as follows in 1940, in 1,000 yen:
Prineipal Import
Prinhipal/Export
Rice
8,856
Vogotablen
1,810
Barley
1,011
Other agrioultural prohugts L.rel
Other agricultural pruducts
2.208
Noodle
1,622
Bugar
29.879
Flour
1,067
Liquor (awanori)
8.960
Tisses of cotton
1.016
Hats
1,205
Machinery
1,071
Otber industrial products
1,764
Drugs and chenuicals
1,261
Dried bonito
1.184
Fertiliser
2.886
Cattle
1.967
Iushricating oils
1,287
Osher tidustrial products
11,202
Wood
1,626
Other forestry prodpots
.1,008
Kote 31. According to the Sumimation of United States Army Militery. Goven
Activities in the Ryukyu Iolande No. I Jaly-Novomber, 1946, 142,7131
were repatriated from Japan and 12.154 from Formosa to the islands southol
30° N. L.e. inciuding Tokara and Amami sub-groups.
The increase in population caused by repatriation is as follows:
690,160
Juna 194€
July, 1946
692,407
700,826
Sentember, 1946
727,695
November, 1940
817,160
(iè)

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.96)
5.
Lenguage
As has akreadyy been stated the mame: Rykyy
sidered a dialect of Japanese with the ame gram
of its vocabulary derived from Japas. (N ). i
This dialect is still spoten by the Ryukyuans in thelr dally 
whereas the standard Japanese is exclusively used in,writing al
conversation at schools and offices.
While. the Amami sub-group has ite own dialect akim to thed
vernacular, the people of the Tokaza sub-group and the talands:toth
speak the dialect of southern Kyushu.
Religion
Buddhism and Shintoism are ingrained in the daily life:of the p
Okinawa Prefecture. The first Shinto shfine was astablished about the
of the 15th century, while Buddhist temples were introduced by
priests in still earlier days. Before the war there wese 8,:shrimes and 32
temples.
There still exists a very popular aboriginal religion. It bear
likeness to the originat Shintoism of Japan.
There-are also influences of Taoism and Confucianism. Some Dokwa
(Taoist temple) and Bunbyo (Confucian shrine) are traceable directly to
Chinese origin, but most of the customs in Ryukyu which retain the in@wence
of these cult have been transplanted through Japan.
Christianity was first introduced when a European ship came to'the
Yaeyama Island Group in the beginning of the 17th century: Around he.
middle of 19th century Dr. Bernard Jean Bettelheim, an Engltsh misstonary,
worked zealously to spread the Gospel. However, the free propafation of
Christianity became possible after the Meiji Era when the anti-christian policy
of the Tokugawa Shogunate was discarded and the freedom of religion was
established. Before the war there were r8 churches and missions, repre
senting various denominatións.
Mode of Life
The principal staple food in Ryukyu is rice. The sweet potato was
Note 32. Aston, W.G.: A grommer of the Japanese wrillen languege, 1897, Lomdn.
Yokohama
The number of vocables common to Japanese with its kim
is much smafter than might have been expected. The omly
contains any considerable proportion of words which are ale
nese is that spoken in the Loo-choo Islands. Lood
Interpreters, but it Is only a dlaleet of Jepanese, and
much as Lowland Scotch does English.
()

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.96)
introduced lIn the begeedng of 17th dry.
land, the Ryukyuans take bean cund and 
for sessoning.
The lecal costume ls qelte simlter to Jagy
encd being that the obi (sash) is not wore, probably fbec
Some maintain, however, that the aaclent castom of Japan not to
happened to have been preserved in Okmawa. Their houses are bumt
like the Japanese. They lay out straw mats on the Soor and go about
footed insida the house.
Many Japanese manners and customs of ancient timen are geta
Okinawa in connection with birth, marriage and other fumotlomns
6. Meteorological Observatories.
There are several important meteorological observatories—namely,
Amami-Oshima, the main island of Okinawa, Ishigaki and at other plage
The Nansei Islands lie in the path of the typhoon which frequently v
Japan from summer to autumn, and which generally changes its course when
it reaches the islands, namely around 27° N. The typhoon forcast ls mot
possible in Japan without meteorological observation in the Nansel Is
In winter too, the observation of the cyclons moving over these islands Iis
needed for forecasting the atmospheric changes in Japan.
(18)

=== Page 58 === (confidence 1.00)
ILLUSTRATION

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.87)
Illustration 1
琉球的通川貝州土家大竹
十七（三）
Na.4
a1
Nas
Maz
Na
No.5
Na8
No.7
No.1 左侧上筋骨.Na.》——Na.4 右侧下骨（侧写）
No.S. No.6 右侧上腓分，Na.7 右侧大漏骨，No.8右侧脚矛（各前侧）
Skoletons of Doge frem fakihigawe Shell-madtnde, Lia-kin.
Bones o? the domesticated dogs of the stone age unearthed in the main island of
okirawa, which show close resemblances with those of the aneient dogs of southern
Kyushu and Honshu of Japan. (See page 4)

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.86)
Illustration Il
见人大骨
人王
82
Lin h.
A bone of an ancient Ryukyuan unearthed in the main island of Okinawa. which
resenbles those ot the Japanese ot the stone age. (See page 4)

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.84)
Illustration Ill
ARいuku
Government order  appointment ot .n euvov to China in the midale
dee: writt n in J.panese. (See page 7)

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.88)
Illustration IV
x
An old picture which shows a Ryukvuan tribute ship (in the centre) n its retur.l
trom China. being visited by the otticials ot Lord St mazu: de ne by a native artist. (See
page 7)

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.85)
Illustration V
育
9
4
力
A Rvukvu Government order ot appointment of a priest, dated with a vear in the
(hinese calendar. which did not exist. (See puge S. Note 19. (2))

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.82)
Illustration VI-1
2
1
, 
2
The letter ot the U.S. Minister to Japan. C.E. De Long, in reply to the communica
tion of the Japanese Gtverrmert ot Septemter. 1872. on the ineorporation of Ryukvu
into Japan. (See page 13)

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.80)
Illustration VI-1I
. P ak

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.96)
MINOR ISLANDS
ADJACENT TO
JAPAN PROPER
19
PART III.
THE BONIN ISLAND GROUP,
144
THE VOLCANO ISLAND GROUP
FOREIGN OFFICE
JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
MARCH 1947

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.98)
For information of the allied authorities

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.84)
THE BONIN ISLAND GROUP AND THE VOLCANO ISLAND G
The Benin Island Group
Kita
Mlko
Q0 Shum)
Nakodo
OMiyake
me
Muko 1s
Aiga Shim
Island
0
2010t0
.Ton
Kita Iwo
zofu Gan
(Late uia)
Chichi 1s.
2
14110
two
o
0
Haka 1s.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
CONTENTS
Chapter I. The Bonin (Ogasawara) Island Group
1. Physical Geography
1
History
1
1
(2) Visits of European and American Navigators and the
Anglo-Anerican Dispute on the Island Group
(3) The Second Expedition by the Shogunate
(4) Formal Incorporation into Japanese Territory and
Negotiation with Foreign Countries
(a) Britain
(b) United States.
(c) Other Countries
3. Inhabitants
4. Industries
5. Other Facts
Chapter II. The Volcano (Kasan) or Iwo (Sulphur) Island Greep. si
1. Phyaical 'Geography
2. History
3. Inhabitants

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.96)
remain unconfirmod (Note 5),
In 1675 TOKUGAWÀ, Ietsune. the Bhegun, despatobed MeAYA
Ichisaemon to the Island Group. This may be regarded as the tst olal
step taken by Japan for the investigation of those islends with the view
of taking possession 'of them'(Note 6).
This inspeotion was motivated by the extraordinary interest ed
Note 3. (1) There exist old records stating that OGASAWARA, Sadae, ae
the Bonins on July 26, 1593, smd set up two sign-posts there, declaring.
Japanese sovereignty over the islands.
(2) The American Hydrography, 1930, states: The Islands were dis-
covered in 1593 by Sadayori Ogasawara, who lived there for 30 years.
(3) The British Hydrography, 19no, states: This. group was discovered.
by the Japanese in 1593.
(4) The Encyclopedia Britanuice says: According to Japanese anmals they
were discovered towards the close of the 1eth century, and added to the:
fief of a Daimyo, Ogasawara Sadayori, whence the mame Ogasawara-Jima.
Note 4. Von Siebold P.F.: History of Discoveries in the. Jepem Sess, 1852. The
Bonin islands are first mentioned in a map published by the Dutch hydro-
grapher Orteltus, in 157o, and therein reported as first to have beém seen
in 1S43 by Bernardo de Torres who gave them the name of Maloabrigo and.
Los dos Hermanos.
Note 5.
(1) Commodore Perry, in his Nerratice of the Bspedition of en Amerisen:
Squedron in the China Seas and Japan, 1865, (Chap. X. p. 230) says as follows:
It is quite clear that the Japanese were the frst dscoverers of these
islands. They probably settled and then subsequently abamdomed them. It:
is possible that the early Spanish, Portuguese. and Dutch navigators may havé
been acquainted with the Bomins, and In later years they have been visited.
Occasionally by the Americans. English and Russians. The fact of a Spanish
visit would seem to be proved by the name of Arzobispo or Àrchbishop,
by which the islands are sometimes distinguished.
(2) Cholmondeley, In his History of the Bonin Islands, 1915, says that
the Islands were "sighted by" Spanish explorer Villalobos and "dlaçovered
by" OGASAWARA, Sadayori.
The suthor confounds Torres with Villalobos whe despatched Mm.
Note 6. Concerning the arst inspection of the Ogasawara lalanda by the Shogenate
Ia (67s, mention was made in the Histery of Japen, writtem Ip 1727 by
Kaemphker, Dutch scholar who then stayed In Japan. Heiarich Jartas Klapretk,

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.91)
of y traes d   reviess te 
Boundaries of Great Japan". The map of the islands prepared hy Sa
ya then may be considered the most accurate of all such maps avalketes
in those days (IMlustration I).
There are ten recorded cases of Japanese castaways on the mhands
between 1669 and 1823.
Meanw hile -everal attempts were made to develop the telands with
he approva!! the Shogunate hut they all fell short of attaintng the
desired end. The people of those days, however. called the islands Oga-
sawara-jima, or Bunin-to (Uninhabited Ialands), and considered them
Japanese territory. The name "Bonin", which is empioyed amomg oc-,
cidentals is none other than a corruption of the Japanese word, "Dumta"
(Note 8).
(2) Visite of Europran and American nuvigators and the Anglo-Ahgriosn
dispute on the Inland Group.
After the first expedition of the Shogunate to the talands  let,
an American whaler Transit was driven adrift to Haha-jima in 1sss; ase
Coffin, the captain of the whaler, named it Coffin Island.
On June 9, 1827, a British warship Blessam put into the present pest
of Futami, Chichi-jima, and her captain Beechey christened the port Pere
Lloyd, Chichi-jima Peel, and Haha-jima Beiley. Before departimg he Jest
Note 7. A certain Chozsemon and his party, while sajling irem K Proviaé Bo
with a cargo of oranges towards the end of 1669, eneountered a stenm and
to les, via the Hachtio Istand. in May. it wes Cheesemen and sbas ekers
who presented reports to the Shogumate.
was Inisiated, that appellatien is gomerally coaedered to dase m  
To"..
to mean antabablted letend..
sheve, sags:

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.94)
à  plte with   te dd
Navy.
but others settled for good in Chichi-jima and Habaee
new animals and plants to assist produodve industay. n 
modore Perry, in a letter dated Dec. 22, 185s, pointág out the factthel
of in the name of the Government of Great Britain" (Note 11).
Perry in his letter of Dec. 23, 185s emphasised the two pointa deay-
ing the British claim:
prove that these islands were known to navigators as darty ms the
middle of the sixteenth century, and were visited by the Jai
in 1675, who gave them the name of "Bune Sima
It would, therefore, appear, that so far as the nationality of the
were as two to one, compared with the three others, who were wub-
jects of different sovereigns.
This question was never again disputed between the Uaited States
and Great Britain.
Note 9. According to Cholmondeley. the Inscriptlon reads as follows: 
H.M.S. Blessom, Captain Beechey, R.N., look pbesesstow of this Broup
of islands in the name and on behalf of His Majesty King George, the 's4th
June,. 1827.
Note 10. Letter of Commodore Perry to Nathalel Savory, ded Jube 15, 8s3: .
I give you charge aa my agent of the pleee ag

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.93)
The drst epdtion coadted by the
the foreign settlers on the islands caused the Shogunate to
Chikugo-no-Kami.
This party arrived in Chichi-fima on Dec. 19, 1861 and left the
archipelago on March 9 of the following year. During the intervemlt
period of two and a half months the party hoisted the Japanese fag on
Chichi-jima; called together all its inhabitants and told them the aland
belonged , Japan promulgated laws and set up harbor regulations (Note
12); established an administration office, and also installed a shrine.
The party went over to Haha-jima, where similar measurea were
taken. The inhabitants of all the ialands signed a written statement.
pledging to live under Japanese administration (Note 18). Besides, the
are still extant (Illustration II).
When the Misuno party set sail for home, there remained sts om
more officials who arrived on March 17. In August the. Sest hatelt
were ordered home in May, 186a.
then boleted on the tstead the Unlon Jack reeotred toden g
Note 12.
13.:

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.96)
Red under the date of Novembew 18, 18ea
Townend Harrls, the
and interests of the Americans on. the
that, even admitting the discovery of the lalands by Japaneme
that Japan had neglected the adaministration nulined any Japanese claim
Americans; and that therefore his country was not prepared to recognise
the possession of the islands by any single nation.
In reply the Shogunate sent to British Chargé d'Affatres a note, dat
that the Bonins would soon be stocked with coal, water, food, and other
provisions for ships calling at those islands, and requested that an whaling
and fshing vessels be notifed to that effect. Similar communications
Portuguese Ministers, which were accepted without, dissension from any
quarter.
(4) Fornal Inoorporation into Japancar Yerritory and Negotiatione with
Forrign Countricn.
For a dozen years or so from the time when it eantd back the Jape-
nese from the Bonins in 1863, the Shogunate was too hard pressed with
with the establishment of the Meiji Government the developiment questiop'.
of the islands was brought to the fore. In November, 1875, the Gov
ernment despatched a party led by TANÀBE, Taichi, to the talende fer
the purposes of inapection and investigation (Note 15). And on the base
of Tanabe's report, the government, putting the arohipelago under the
direct jurisdiction of the Home Ministry, promulgated the Islands Regula-
on Chichi-fima; 4 households on Hahd-Jima with öhe British, one Portugwese,
and some Kanakas; and no inhabitant on the other istends.
Note .14.
The reply of the American minister dated Dec. 19, 1861 to the communication
of the Shogunate (retranslated from Japanese translation), stated to the
following effect:
I have the honor to acknowledgé the recelpt of Your Excelfency's letter
of November 16; notifying that Your Excelleney's government is sending
ofécials to the Bonins-Bune islange, with a view to reoccupying them.
In ordet to report thie to my goverament I ave sent a by of Your

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.94)
nese subjects thereafter.
(a) Dritain.
It is recorded that the Britich Minister Sir Harry Parkes took
cor.versations on the matter with the Mely Goverant on May , 
to ascertaik Japanese attitude and policy toward the ialande.
When in November 1875 the Japanese government decided to meed
is going to administen the islands, the other countries will have mo ob
jection" (Note 16).
As the Tanabe party left on the Meifi Mers for the Bonins the Britch
Minister ordered Consul Robertson at Kanagawa to procsed also to the
spot. He arrived on the H.M.S. Curieo at the lalands while the Japanes
offcials were still there, and he recognised as fait sccompli what had beem
done by them (Note 17).
On October 17, 1876, the Japanese government transmitted to the
ministers of the foreign countries the Bonim Islands Regulatione,
Harbor Regulations and the Tax Regulations and notified them the
thenceforward Japanese officials stationed on the isiands weuld emfose
these regulations. On this occasion Minister Parkes held several 
ferences with Foreign Minister M. Terashima on the question of juriedk
of November 24, the same year, recognised Japanese posssslen of 
Bonin group and requested for the protection of the rights and ubegd
of the British subjects. The, note read in' part as follows:
In acknowledging this announcement of the intention of the
Japanese Government to take possesion of the Bonin group, I sbpe
ber 5, 187s (Jepanese Diplomatic. Desumrata Vol. Vil, p0. 360-3).
harbour on the fridayl the couventlonal courteses were 

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.94)
celleney that the rights and
settled on these talande are not affeoted by thien
(b) United States.
In April 1878 Benjamin Pease, an American settler on Chichi-fima.
sent a letter of inquiry to the American Minister in Tokyo concerning the
jurisdiction over the Bonins and the protection to be afforded the settlers.
When Mr. De Long, American Mintster in Tokyo, referred the matter to
his government, Secretary of State Hamilton Fish reped:
The annexation in 1858 had never been expressky menctlomed by
Congress, and he was not aware of any later act whish would whow
a disposition to support such a step. The American citisens who have
gone there had done so witheut any promise, expresded or implhed,
that the Government would protect them. By resorting to such re-
mote spots on the globe's surface, under such ciroumstances, they
may fairly be held to have deliberately abandoned the United States
without a purpose of returning, and therefore to have relinguished
the rights as well as the duties of citisens (Note 18)...
When on October 17, 1876 the Japanese Goverament infermed the
U.S. Minister of the various regulations, the latter in a letter dated:October
27, 1876 suggested to the effect that the Article VII of Harbor Regulations
and Article XII of Customs Regulations "be so amended es to provide thet
for all offences committed against the same by foreigners the offender
shill be arrested and sent by the Japanese officials to the nearest Consul
of his goverament in Japan for trial and punishment" on the ground that
rights of American citizens in Japanese territory (Note19)
w
(c) Other Countries.
The Spaniah, German, French and Dutch Ministers who recetved the
abóve-mentioned communication of the Japanese Government, deted
come with no intention of thwarting or Interfering with Japanode plans, Mr.
Robettadn, meceptig the declereton made as à fals accomal, was carata that
everything he did should be done as openly as posstble...
1853-1855. (Tol:1t, pp. 486-7).

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.95)
Oétoher 17, 1820
On June 1st, 1944 the population of the istands was 6,ses.
87 naturalised forelgners.
As regards the Japanese population, with the increasing cultsves
of sugar cane and manufacture of sugar, there was a steedy tmcreads
in their number. In 1886, they numbered 500; ten years later, by 1898
the number had swallen to no less than 4,200, exceedng 6,s00 by le
The majority of the populationr are permanent settlers. As Tbe
tion of the islands into Japan as an administrative unit, these peo
naturalized by 1882.
4. Industries.
The agricultural production of the islands is insignifcant, owtng'to
in a very primitive way on small farms which dot steep hilieldes.
Less than 2 per cent of the arable, land is planted to upland rics
tants used to look to the matnland for almost all of their staple foon
supply.
Taken as a whole, the islands' production is not considerable; and
they have imported always from the mainland more than they mpory
thereto. (In 1936, total of imports 1,456,496 yen, that of exports 1,018.
405 yen).
5. Other Facts.
The fishing industry of the islands, as it exists to-day, is scarcely
more than a minor coastal enterprise. However, the tslands serve es
convenient base for tuna and bonito fishing vessels of the 
operating in 'the western Pacisc. At the same time, no m
portance attaches to the, whaling in the neigtporhood of/th
only harbor' bouth of the Lsu Ialand Group whte

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.82)
The Boakn Inlande, ae is the ohee ut the tm
of the main tra of the n, w  Jan 
thus animportant base for meteorological obeervatiem 
. mospheric disturbances.
()

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.97)
Chapter II. The Velonine (Ktmen) e
Greegp
1. Physical Geography.
A Group of 8 islands and several rocks lying at a polns abode
miles to the south-west bf the Bonin Islands are generally kmowm 
Volcano (Kazan) Islands or Iwo (Sulphur) Islands. The biggedt telana
is Iwo-jima (7.79 sq. m.). These islands though sometimes included tm
the Bonins, are of a later origin geographically having sprung tato 
istence in the Quaternary Period; their volcanic activities stim contma
2. History.
The existence of the Volcano Islands was not conarmed until 177
when Captain Cook's Third Expedition saw three islands at a distance
Island". Previoualy, in 1548, it is said, Bernardo de Torres, Spantah
explorer, sighted alsó three lslands between 24º and 25° N., with a volcano
on one of them, and named them "Los Volcanos". . This latitudinal mee-
surement, however, differs from that given by the Cook Expedition. Fus
quite a long time thereafter, not a few maps continued to treat the "Los
Volcanos" of Torres and the "Sulphur Island" of the Cook Expedition
as different islands. The fact is that these islands had been seen merely
from a distance, and no particular country had laid claim to their pos
.session. They remained uninhabited until the end of the 1oth century.
TAKASAKI, Goroku, Governor of TOKYO Prefecture, who, during
his inspection trip in Bonins, visited the Volcano Islands in November
1887, is presumed to be the frst man to land there. In September, 1801,
the islands were formally declared to be Japanese possessions and placed
under the jurisdiction of Tokyo Prefecture. It is about his times.that
Japanese settlers began to arrive.
3. Inhabitants.
The population as of June 1st, 1944 was 1,029, most of them Hving
on Iwo-jima, the largest of the three islands. A few also live on North
Iwo-jima, bnt there is no settler on South Iwo-jima.
All the inhabitants here are either those who have immigrated trom
the mainland or their descendants. They are engaged in the cultivatiom
-of sugar-cane and of coca. No naturalized foreignèrs or their desoen
dants live here as they do in the Bonins.

=== Page 80 === (confidence 1.00)
ILLUSTRATION

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
Illustration1
Map of the Bonin Islands prepared by the Shimaya expedition party despatched by
Tokugawa Shogunate in 1675, which is considered the most accurate of all maps of the
islands made in those days. (See page 3)

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.79)
Illustration 11-1
N
母
2
2
4u
2
Map of one (Haha-jima) of the Bonin Islands drawn by the Mizuno expedition party
despatched by Tokugawa Shogunate in 1861. (See page 5)

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.95)
Illustration 11-2
Iar:at map of the Bonin Islands drawn by the Mizuno expedition party despatched
ly Tohugawa Shogunate in 18o1. (See page 5)

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.98)
S365966
'Copy
TOP SECRET
Document D
PRESIDENT TRUMAN TO GENERALISSIMO STALIN
AUGOST 27, 1945 *
(Files of the Executive Secretariat)
In response to your message of August 22nd, 1945, as far as
the base on the Kurile Islands is concerned, my idea was that use
of landing rights in the central Kuriles during the occupation of
Japan would be an important contribution to the cooperative action
we will be taking in connection with the carrying out of the Japanese
surrender terms as it would afford another route for air connection
with the United States for emergency use during the period of
occupation of Japan.
/8-2745
I also felt no hesitancy in bringing up the matter of landing
facilities for commercial use. You evidently misunderstood
my message because you refer to it as a demand usually laid
before a conquered state or an allied state unable to defend parts
of its territory. I was not speaking about any territory of the Soviet
Republic. I was speaking of the Kurile Islands, Japanese territory,
disposition of which must be made at a Peace settlement. I was
advised that my predecessor agreed to support in the peace settlement
the Soviet acquisition of those Islands. I did not consider it offensive
when you asked me to confirm that agreement. When you expect
our support for your desire for permanent possession of all the
Kurile Islands, I cannot see why you consider it offensive if I ask
for consideration of a request for landing rights on only one of
those Islands. I consider the request for discussion all the more
reasonable because of the close and cordial relations existing
between our two governments and between us personally. While I
believe early discussion of these matters would be helpful, I will
not press it if you do not wish to discuss them now.
TOP SEORET FILE
SEP 1 3 1956
*Drafted in the Department
TOP SECRET

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.88)
DIVIGION OF
FOR JAPAN
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JcIR
Tokyo, september 18, 1947
0. 1204
CBJ.CT: Forwardin
utitin
r1i n or Islunds
t.
okkaido
The Counsel ioi her  refer to
is ission's desputelh . loo u uly , lc nd
894.014/9-1847
trevious correspondence regurdinetition r the
torn of certain islands adjucent to
oie iu b viet rorces.
In this connection re i.  closed  ctition
cuarscd to General of the rny D ugls crtur, re-
FE.
iv a t rou i. the Tapanese Government, rrom he rerectural
ly  ide reuesting the return to Junese
Jurisuiction o 'h t llovin islands:
OE
Habomai Islanus
SPA
stororu Tslunus
EE
cp
Funmiri Tolenis
OCD
1947 8EP 26 PM 3 50
DC/R
unclosure:
THE T CF STATE
RECEIVED
DC/L
Fetition addressed to enerul
F
ucarthur dated 13 u ust 1947
(original Japanese and nglish
17
trunslation).
C1C
Original und hectgraph to Department.
OCT 23 1947
cis
801.45
LNJohansen:mm
TE
An
0n
Dist

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.76)
Enclc: :
.14er181947
fr.
ei r ,oke, on the
Ict Formurdi tin   toration of Tslands
..Hokkuiuo'.

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to C.L.O.No
PETITION FOR THE RETURN OF HADOMAI BOLAN
AND THE ISLANDS OF ETOROFU AND KUNASHIRI
Your Excellency General of the Army
Douglas Macarthur,
13 August 1947
The Habomai Islands (including Shikotan, Taraku,
Shibatsu, Suisho, Yuri and Akiyuri) and Etorofu and
Kunashiri Islands of Kuriles now under the occupation
of Soviet Army are an integral part of Japan and also
the place where we can get great amount of fishery
products as the sourge of protein food supply absolutely
necessary for the sustainance of Japanese people.
Therefore we take this opportunity to lay a. petition before
Your Exceliency concerning the return of these islands.
Staterent
1. The Habomai Island (including Shikotan, Taraku,
Shibatsu, Suisno, Yuri and Akiyuri) which are now under
the occupation of soviet Forces have belonged administre-
ti ely to the Province of Nemuro of Hokkaido Mcin Land
since under th regime of the !a: distant Tokugawa Sho-
gunate and ne been includer in the Kurile Islands.
While, of the cent ui Islands, Etorofu and Kuna-
shiri were definitely recognized as the Japanese territory
by the Russo-Japanese Treaty of Commerce of 1854. Another
evidence to prove this is the fact that the Saghlien-Kuriles
Exchange Treaty concluded between Japan and mussia 1n 1875
does not mention these two islands, but provides only for the
exchange of Uruppu and other 17 islands to the north thereof
for Saghalien, thus excluding these two islands from the
object of exchange.
Therefore the Habomai Islands as well as Etorofu and
Kunashiri Islands were always under Japanese possession
and not a territory transferred from Bussia.
Etorofu and Kunashiri as well as the Habomai Islands have
been for the past 200 years the home of Japanese engaging
in fisheries, with no settlement of any alsien nation. Im
other word Japanese people have been living there for more
than l00 years before the Meiji Restoration, t efr inhabi-
tants have lived there through three to six gonerations eme
closely bound with the people of Hokkaido Lain Land econom-
cally.
2. The Russian Army, however, took over these islands
under military occupation suddenly on 1 eptember 1945 and
cut off all the communications between there and Hokkaido
as if by ah "iron curtain".
At the begining of the occupation some of the inhake-
tants were very much seared and frightened that they mames
to: extrieate their beloved old parents, wives and ehilasem

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
secretly by small boats to the coast of Nemuro, Hokkaide.
Although these island lie just in the hailing distance frem
Nemuro, these refug can not hear anything from their
dependable husbands and sons stranded there, and are tery
much anxious about them day and night. To add to their
grievances, it has been reported of late that all the
areas now under Soviet occupation will be integrated as
the territory of Soviet Russia. Such a report can not make
us foresee a gloomy prospect on this problem.
We have surrendred to the Allied Powers by accepting
the terms set forth by the Potsdam Proclamation and we are
making our best efforts in faithfully carrying out the
proviseions thereof. Now the Proclamation provides that.
"Japanese soverignty shall be limited to the islands of
Honshu, Hokkaido, Kyushu, Shikoku and such minor 1slands
as we determine," and no decision has yet been made of
the disposal of the Habomai Islands, Btorofu and Kunashiri.
These islands, however, do not fall under the category of
"territories which she (Japan) has taken by violanee and
greed" as provided by the Cairo Declaration, but have
been an integral part of Japan historically and practically.
Therefore we are convinced that you will be sure to return
these islands to us in the future.
3. About one third of fishery products of Japen has
hitherto come from Hokkaido, of which one third is produeed
in these waters. As these islands are completely separated
from Hokkaido, we have lost an important area of Sishery
producing salmon, trout, codfish, crab and seeweed, and are
suffering from the shortage of protein food supply caused
thereby. In addition t: this, fishing in the adjacent
waters in misty weather, fishermeh are very apt: unwittingly
to take a wrong course and to trespass on the Soviet's waters,
resulting in their arrest or detention by Soviet Authorities.
Therefore the fishermen around these waters are very much
afraid to go out fishing.
In case these islands become the territory of Soviet
Russia, the proximity of territories of two countries will
becontinous cause of fishery trouble, precipitate  the
Japanese fishermen into a great difficulty under fear and
oppression and also we shall be deprived of the birthplaces
of about 17,000 inhabitats imbued with the efforts and
sufferings of their ancestors.
- 2 -

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.94)
In vie: the various situations mentioned above,
we, as t e rep esentatives who have been elected by the
free il.  te people of Hokkaido, can not overlook
these  isery and sufferings and express before Your Excell-
oncy
y desire for your consideration.
Wit the resolution of the Prefoctural Assombly of
Hokkaido, we hereby humbly teg to entreat Your Bxcelleney
to return Etorofu, Kunashiri and Hamobai Islands to us.
HIDETARO BANDO,
Chairman of the Prefectural Assembly
of Hokkaido
representing
all members f te Drefectural Assembly
of tod.
-3-

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.60)
曰
七海首卷

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.76)
三現在水ら諸小島北海道本島上完全に切離水
に迷じ入り柳留或乙は拿捕される力で同地域近接り
線の認識を誤往くにて
加るに接續十る水域に出漁十水は濃雨霧によう境界
蛋白給源の生產に重大な影書生及ぼ一六いる
海道の漁業生産の三分の一を占めたこれらの地域におけ
乙いるため從来日本全國水產物の三分の一に達した北
とともに日本國民三る島民一萬七千余の墳墓の他は制
渔民は恐怖と壓迫とに非常なる困難に遭遇する
あるた四日演業上紛爭は間断なく惹起十水日本
諸小島か聯邦
漁民は旬仁不安堪
万
鮭轉鱈蟹昆布等重要漁場失公日本人
尹領なるならは彼我り領土指呼間に
ない状況である若し將来これら
聯邦軍占領下水域

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.75)
如朝夕鳥
艮
分
者
t
そ安否正氣遣い哀愁の念に
72
島に殘留
引

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.59)
解
57

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.69)
同本司
/E

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.78)
7
キ各島は遠く德川幕
道遠舞諸島而
從帰される
水立生物生

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.86)
100
A5E
894.014
The
9-147
BOND
MR. NILES

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. Organization, RYKOM
2. Station and Troop List, RYKOM
3. Strength of Army, Air Force, and Navy
4. Personnel Strength of RYKOM Units
5. American Civilians employed in the Ryukyus
6. Dependent Housing in the Ryukyus
7. Reports from Technical Services:
a. Chemical
b. Engineers
c. Medical
d. Ordnance
e. Quartermaster
f. Signal
g. Transportation
8. Disposition of Surplus Property
9. Bettle of Okinawa
10. Native Population of Ryukyus Islands
11. Background Information of the Ryukyus
12. Information Bulletin, Okinawa District Engineer
13.Military Government Report
14. Map Okinawa Shima - Location of RYKOM Units *
15. Road Nap of Okinama Shima *
*(Above maps in pocket)

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.83)
RYUKYUS
COMMAN:
COMMANDING GERERAL
AIDE
BRIG GEN FL HAYDEN
DEPUTY
COMMANDER
SECRETARY TO
GENEAL STAFE
CHIEF
of
STAFF
COL
TRIPLET
CHIEF F SF
DEDT
PLANS
DEPUTY CO
OF
SPECTOR BEN
CONTROL SECTION
MILITARY GOVT
LT COL
-0.
FISCAL JEFICER
MERG DENNETT
. COL
FRDELATOUR
MAJOR
COL 
TO C 
THOMAS GJEINS
MAJ
OL'VER E WOOC
GENERAL
STAFF
1
ACOS, 
AC OM S. 6- 3
acs. .
L° COL
LT COL
 COL
COL
STUBDTVA..ET
BYRON R PATTON
IVER A PETERS
THOMAS  ERIN
PUBLIC RELATIONS
INFORMATION
CAPT
EDUCATION
THONAS WATBON
CAPT
GEORBE A KELLUM
SPECIAL
STAFF
CHPLa
FIRANCE OFPICER
PROVOST
CHEICAL OFFICER
ENGINEER OPFICER
SIONAL
OFFICER
TRAMSPORTATION
LT COL
MA
CAPT
LT COL
ULT
LT COL
LTCOL
OFFICER
M C RELLY
E BADI
CALVERT SMELTON
GERALD R MONETER
WILLIA I CARY
FRED E ROBDWS
SAUEL O A
COaL
3
林
a
4
RODERT ALLER
ERGRGE PI
SPECIAL SEE
OFPIGER
JUDGE AGVOCATE
SURGEOR
POST ENGINEER
ORANCE OPFICER
GUARTERMASTER
O I SEYLORS
LTOGL
BAJER
JO GALLEY
LT. BOL
WELS Pardam
MAJER
COL
GARTERU KOLD
OPFICER
CaL
ART 
LT COL
(PB)
(P8)
LT CaL
LT. .
LN S. SE
APPROE

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.97)
HEADQUARTERS
RYUKYUS COMLND
APO 331
319.26 (AIC 2 Oct 47)
2 October 1947
SUBJECT: Station and Troop List RYKOM Units
TO
: See Distribution
1. Attached herewith as inclosure is station and
troop list of RYKOM units now present on Okinawa.
2. It is requested that any discrepancies as to
assignment, attachment or map location of units be brought
to the attention of this Headquarters.
BY COMMAND OF BRIGADIER GENERAL HAYDEN:
GEORGE G. ROWLAND
Major
AGD
1 Incl:
Asst Adjutant General
Station & Troop List
DISTRIBUTION: "D" Plus
20 - 1st D
30 - G-3, RYKOM
5 - G-3, PHILRYCOM
DECLASSIFIED
Eq. 11052, Sec. 3(E) and 5(0) g (E)
NND 750063
VC NARS, Dote MOY

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.94)
RESTRICTE
RYUKYUs COLLAND STATION AND TROOP LIST
1 CCTOBLR 1947
Location
Units sgd to Ryukyus Command
Further Asgd
Further Atehd
Ryukyus netto p: 1-25.000
87th A Gp, Hq & ∃q Btry (PS)
arine Bks
TA 9291-B
46th An Opns Det (PS)
37th Gp
Larine Bks
TA 9291-8
511th   B (b1) us
87th  Gp
Kuba-Saki
TA 8980-0
Btry "A", 51lth   Bn
Takabaru
T 8882-K
btry "B", 511th  A Bn
edicel bervioc
Kuba-Saki
TA 8980-0
532d  Gun Bn (S) (Typ A) inus
87th  Gp
arine Bks
TA 9291-
Btry "B, 532d  Gun Bn
ungineer Servior
Sobe
TÀ 8090-8
1st Section Btry "c", 532d  Gun Bn
edical Service
Sukiran
TA. 7578-5
"A" Btry, 54lst Slt Bn, Type C (PS)
87thGp
Auba-Saki
T
44th Inf Regt (PS) inus
Nupunja
T4 908
"" Co, 44th Inf
116thCo
Yamaji
Tà
"B" Co, 44th Inf
Trans Service
Naha
TA
"c" Co, 44th Inf
Lwase
"D" Co, 44th Inf
Ordnance Service
Hoshichiya
"B" Co, 44th Inf
Ishikawa
"p Co, 44th Inf
Qu Service
Tengan

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.93)
Location
Badts ased to Ryukyus Command
Further usgd
Further atchd
yus etto ap: 1-25,000
44th Inf Rogt (PS) (oont'd)
"G" Co, 44th Inf
T 
n
"H Co, 44th Inf
Engr Service
TA 7572-C
Cannon Co, 44th Inf
icniy
Th 9982-E
anti-tank Co, 44th Inf
Ordnance Servic
crinuto
TA 8077-Y
2lst Base Post Office, Type B
TA 7371-N
239th PU, Type C
FLAF
TA
90th Cml Sv vet (PS)
Cml service
Ordnance servic
minuto
Th 7675-
556th Engr Sv Bn Col AD
Engr Service
Ta 7471-8
29th Engr Base Survey Co
Engr Service
h.
Ta 8585-I
514th Engr Depot Co ( ) (vs)
Engr Service
wha
TA 7471-8
544th Engr Const Co (PS)
Engr Service
TA 7471-8
697th Engr retr Dist Co
(w/md, less Oper P1tn) (PS)
Engr Service
jaha
TA 7471-8
559th Engr Fire Ftg Pltn
(Col F, 2 FB, 3FD) (P3)
Eingr Service
oukiran
TA 6004-
Ryukyuan Construction Bn
Engr Service
Sukiran
T& 8503-9
 Co, Ryukyuan Const Ba
Engr Service
Sukiran
*g Co, Ryulyuan Const Bn
Engr Service
awase

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.94)
Lo.
ion
Uaits usgd to Ryukyus Command
Further asgd
Further atchd
Ryukyus Retto p: 1-25,000
Ryukyuan Construction Company
Engr Service
Naha
TA 7572-X
586th Engr üaint Pltn (PS)
Engr Service
Sobe
TA 8090-S
555th Engr Sv Det (nint Type #3)
(Co1 DC)
Engr Service
Sobe
Ta 8090-S
560th Engr Sv Det (Co1 EB) (PS)
ungr Service
Naha
TA 7471-S
63rd Engr Slt LUaint Det (inoperative)
(1) (Col DF)
Engr Service
Szth Sta Hosp (750 bed) (PS)
edical Service
Uchitomori -
TA 8079-W
4th Ualaria Survey Det (Col FB) (WS)
edical Sorvice
Uchitomori -
TA 8079-
5th L1 ria Cont.o1 Det (Col Fa) (PS)
edical service
E: :So (o1)
for ratñons
Suliran
TA 7575-E
50sth alaria Control Det (Col F) (PS)
Liedical Service
Lngr Sv (8104th)
for rutions
Suldran
TA 7575-8
536th Lied Supply Det (Co1 BC)
edical Service
chin.to -
Ta 7675-B
10th Vet Food Insp Det (Col DD)
Ledical Service
Tengan
Ta 9393-I
507th Optical Repair Vet (Col DF)
Ledical Service
Uchitomori -
TA 8079-
116th iilitary Police Co
Futoma
TA 8581-L
7s8th Wilitary Police Bn, Co "D"
Nakagusuku -
TA 8781-0
11th army Band (PS)
87th Gp
Suba-Sali -
TÀ 8000-0
227th rmy Band
Trans Service
Jaha
Th T27e-5

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.95)
Loc..tion
Units asgd to Ryukyus Command
Further asgd
Further tchd
Ryukyus Retto mp: 1-25 090
176th Fin Disb Sec (Col B, BL, DC)
Sukiran
TA 8565-4
226th Ord Base Depot, dq & Hq Det
Ordnance Service
Machinato
Th 7776-0
188th Ord Base Depot Co (PS)
Ordnance Service
Machin ato
Ta 8077-C
554th Ord d to aint Co (PS)
Ordnance Service
achinato
TA 8077-C
99th Ordnance Hvy idint Co (Fa) (PS)
Ordnance ervice
achinato
TA 8077-C
581st Ord Hvy uto int Co
Ordnance Service
achin.to
TA 7776-C
96th Ordnance Service Det
Ordnance Service
Machinato
TA 8077-C
605th Ord d int Co (PS)
Ordnance bervice
Machinato
T4 8077-C
So4th Or: Depot Supply ltn
Ordniance S vice
uch to
T. 7776-C
3rd Ord Bomb Disp qd, (Col EB) (PS)
Ordnance Service
achinato
T. 8077-C
504th Ord Tire Repr Team (lb1)
(Co1 EA) (PS)
Ordnance Service
chinato
TA 8077-C
505th Ord mo t (PS)
Ordnence Service
*44th Inf Regt
Hupunja
TA 8990-E
575th Ord mo Co (PS)
Ordnance Service
*44th Inf Regt
Nupunja
TA 8990-E
8104th Service Detachment
Sukiran
TA 8583-
8115th Service Det .chment
Shinzato
TA 8564-
* For udm, Rations and Quarters only
DESZRICTK

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.96)
Location
Units asgd to Ryukyus Command
Further asgd
Further utchd
Ryukyus Retto ap: 1-25,000
561st Cil Group, Hq & Hq Det
(w/atchd Chaplain & Asst)
 Service
Tengan
TA 9393-I
34th Qu Bn, Hq & Hq Det (w/o ied) (PS)
Ci Service
Tengan
TA 9393-I
357th S Sv Co (-20 EU, LHOS 590) (PS)
Service
Naha
Té 7371-R
71st Q Blry Pltn (Sep (Col BH) (PS)
C Service
liaha
TA 7371-R
74th  Blary P1tn (Sep) (Co1 BH) (PS)
 Service
Naha
TA 7371-R
261st Q Ldry P1tn (Co1 E, J, 5JB) (PS)  Service
Chatan
TA 8383-S
502nd  Salvage Repr Pltn (Scm)*
Q: Service
Naha
Ta 7370-M
520th Q D:pot Supply P1tr (b1)
 Service
Naha
TA 7470
18th Qu Refrig Pltn (b1)
qi Service
Tengan
TA 9393-I
525th q Co1 Storage P1t (Fxd) (PS)
Q1 Service
Tengan
Ta 9393-I
567th Q Gas Supply P1tn (PS)
Q Service
Kadena
T4 8289-N
lst Gd Petr Prod Lab, (Col F)
 Service
Tengan
TA 9393-I
79th  Dry Cleaning Det (Col E) (PS)
 Survice
Chotan
Ta 8383 T
151st Q Ldry Det (Col J) (PS)
 Servico
37th Sta Hospital
Chotan
TA 8290-Q
566th C Office Lach Ropr Det (Col DI) (PS) I Service
Naha
TL 7470-E
569th Qi Office Repr Det (Col DI)
Service
Tengan
Ta 9393-I
586th Sales Det, Col BD
Qi Sorvice
Naha
Ta 7470-8
- 5 -

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.92)
Locatio..
Units asgd to Ryukyus Command
Further usgd
Further atchd
Ryukyus Retto ap: 1-25,000
11th Sig Sv Bn (Cols AC, D, AI, 2L,
CB, CC, CD, DB, DI, EF,
EG, EH, EI, EQ, FE, FJ,
GD, 2GH, GI, GQ, 3HC)
Signal Service
Koza
TA 8687-0
547th Signal Base Depot Co (PS)
Signal Service
lachinato
TA 7676
8th Sig Radar aint Unit, Typo F
Signal Service
achinato
TA 7676-J
532nd Sig Hvy Const Pltn (PS)
Signal Sorvice
Machinato
T. 7676
232nd Sig Radar aint Unit, Type C
Signal Service
Machinato
.TA 7676
RYKO:1 Ionospheric Obser Team (Prov)
Signal Sorvice
Sukiran
TÀ 8584-R
61st Irans iv Ggi Hn & Hg Co
( 2.,,,
Tu 7270-1
B 3B, plus 10 officors) (PS)
Trans Service
Naha
66th Trans Trk Bn, dq & Bg Det
(ibl) (w/o mdics) (PS)
Trans Service
Ncha
TÀ 7473-T
Sth Trans Harber Craft Co
(Cols AC, AG. BA. 3HI. 2J, 5 H) (PS)
Trans Service
Naha
TA 7270-1
Znd. Irans Trk Co (Trp)
Trans Scrvico
Naha
Tà 7573-X
B4th Trans Trk Co (Irp)*
Trans Service
Naha
TA 7873-K
Saard Trans Trk Ce (Trp)•
Trans Service
Maha
TA 7871-0
:Srd Trans Trk Co (Hvy)
Trans Sorvice
Naha
S94th Trans Trk Co (Hry)
Trans Servico
Maha
BESTRICORD

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.92)
Location
Units usgd to Ryukyus Command
Further ud
Further atchd
Buus detto ap: 1-25.0)
145th: Brame Port Go*
Trans Service
Naha
TA 77
1arth Trans Post Co*
Trans. Service
Naha
TA 727C -F
624th Truns Fort Ces
Truns Service
Naha
TA 7270-I
507th Port arine aint Sec (Col BD)
Trans Service
Naha
Th.72900
Co "a", Ryukyuan Trk Bn (Prov)
Trans Service
Naha
TA 7371-.
Co "B*, Ryukyuan Trk Bn (Prov)
Trans borvice
Naha
Th 7371-
Co "c", Ryukyuan Trk Bn (Prov)
Trans Service
Naha
TA 7391-5
Co "D", Ryukyuan Tr': Bn (Prov)
Trans Service
Hoschichiya
TA 9982-5
Co "E", Ryukyuan Trk Bn (Prov)
Tr.ns Serváce
liaba
T. 
Location
Units attached to RYKOU
Furtner atchd
Ryukyus netto uaps:1-8,000
1st Oporuting P1tn, 126th Sig Sv Co
signal Service
Sukiran
RYULYUS. BRNCH OFFICE, 1135th CIC Det
Sukiran
583rd Q Graves Regiatration Co (-one pltn)
 Service
Isa
TL
*Denotes: Magro. Fersonno l
-7-
DESERIA

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.98)
STRENGTH
REPORT
OF
ARMY, NAVY, and AIR FORCES
ARMY - Ryukyus Command (Ground)
9589
AIR FORCES - lst Air Division
6618
NAVY
602
15809
TOTAL

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.96)
HEADQUARTERS
RYUKYUS
COMMAND
APO 331
DATE 30 Sept 1947
PERSONNELSTRENGTH
AUTHORIZED
ASSTGNED
ENLISTED MEN
AGG
ENLISTED MEN
AGG
OFFICER
WHITE
COLORED
PS
AUTH
OFFICER
WHITE
COLORED
PS
ASGD
TOTAL
704
2196
1080
6039
10019
691
2n62
957
5873
9584
Service
Detachments
130
575
4
124
773
132
474
134
740
Postal Units
6
13
71
7
7
78
Finance Units
3
28
31
3
76
70
Military Police Units
10
208
77
21.2
253
Chémical Units
1
17
19
1
19
Engineer Units
210
:12
41
353
564
958
Medical Urits
384
526
110
20
4.15
554
Ordnance Units
52
285
833
1170
49
303
836
1100
Quartermaster Units
30
176
87
498
800
41
190
3
483
8m
Signal Units
37
261
195
493
31
243
199
473
Transportation Units
93
303
961
281
1638
100
141
849
293
1363
Bands
2
28
28
58
1
22
20
44th Inf Reg't
112
1783
1895
84
1567
1651
AAA Units
75
1326
1401
80

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.97)
SPRVICE DETACRANTS
8104th Sv Det
58
377
8115th 9v Det
69/261
66
396
Sub Total
130515
124
773
132
1.74
POSTAL UNITS
239th APU
5
6
7
21st BPO
63
68
Sub Total
68
74
FINANCP UNITS
16
176th Fin Dis Sec.
28
31
Sub Total
28
31
3
16
MILITARY POLICE UNITS
116th MP Co
144
149
61119
2
Co D, 738th MP Bn
144
149
5123
Sub Total
10
288
298
242
2
CHMICAL UNITS
90th Cml Sv Det (rS)
17
18
Sub Total
17
18
18
PNGINPPR UNITS
29th Fngr Base Surv Ço 6 210
216
5233
2
63rd Engr Slt Maint bet
3
3
514th Engr Dep Co (P$)_6
17d
176
161
1
544tin Engr Const Co (3)_5
209
214
202
555th Engr Sv Det
15
556th Engr Sv Bn
16
20
121
559th Engr FF Plat (sS)_1
321 33
560th Emgr Sv Dot(Ps).3
586th. Engr Maint. Pl

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.97)
OFF
NGINTER UNITS (Cont)
697th Engr Pet Dis Co (PS)
55
5
Sub Total
31
8:4
1.1
1353
INFAN 
1561
/4th Trf Reg't (PS)
112
7783
1895
84
1562
Sul 1-ca.
112
783
1895
84
MPDICAL
4th Malaria Surv Det (PS)
2
11
13
14
5th Malaria Cont Det (PS)
11
12
10
37th Sta Hosp (PS)
106
351
457
105
378
70th Vet Food Inspection
1
5
1
507th Optical Repair Det
1
7
6
508th Malaria Cont Det
11
12
13
536th Medical Sunply Det
1
19
20
19
Sub Totel
113
22
384
526
110
29
415
ORDNANCF
1
6
7
2
6
96th Ord Sv Det (PS).
19
20
19
188th Ord Base Dep (PS)
6
109
115
111
226th Ord Base Depot
10
31
41
18
48
504th Crd Depot Sup Plat
1
59
60
1
66
504th Ord Tire Rep Team (PS)
1
15
16
505th Ord Ammo Det (PS).
2
60
62
61
581st Ord Ho Auto Maint Ca 7
195
202
6
189
9th Ord Av Maint Co (FA)(P$)6
184
190
3
605th Ord Med Maint Co (PS)
155
162
3
153
575th Ord Ammo Co (PS)
6
173
179
172

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.98)
AGG
ORDNANCE (Cont)
112
116
554th Ord MA" Co (PS)
52
285
833
1170
49
303
636
Sub Totel
QUARTERMASTR
2110
15
12
2
19
1 Pet Prod Lab
27
28
29
18 QM Refrig Plat (MBL).
20
11
5
34 QM Bn Hq & Hq Det (PS).
6
26
26
27
71 QM Bakery Plat (PS).
26
26
27
74 QM Bakery Plat (PS)
8
8
8
79 QM DRY Cleaning Det(P$)
15
15
16
151 QM Laundry Det (PS).
1
60
61
62
261 QM Laundry Plat (PS).
1
185
188
192
357 QM Sv Co (PS).
87
88
2
86
502 QM Depot Salv Rep Plat
49
50
52
2
520 QM Depot Sup Plat (PS).
2
59
60
58
525 QM Cold Storage Plat (PS)1
561 QM Gp Hq & Hq Det
11
26
37
12
33
566 QM Off Mach Rep Det(PS
2
2
49
49
50
567 QM Gas Sup Plet (rS).
569 QM Cff Mech Rep Toam
2
2
2
97
102
94
583 Q11 Craves Reg Co (Atch).5
15
13
586 QH Sales Det
39
176
87
498
800
4.1
190
86
483
Su2 Toi
SII
8 Sig Radar Maint Unit
1
3
11 Sig Sv Bn
25
255
280
20
243
232 Sig Radar Meint Unit

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.97)
SIGNAL (Cont)
532 Sig Hv Const Plat(PS).
547 S1g Base Nenot Cc(ps).
126 S3 Ser Co (AT7 RY)
Sub Total
37
261
195
TRANSHO.CTATION
2 Transp Truck Co
105
110
3 Transp Truck Co
112
61 Transp Sv Gp (PS).
23
172
64 Trensp Truck Co (Col)
105
65 Transp Har Creft Co(PS)19
95
114
66 Transp Truck Bn (FS)
19
145 Transp Port Co (Col).
213
147 Transp Port Co (Col).
213
507 Port Marine Maint Co.
86
583 Transp Truck Co
105
574 Transp Truck Co
112
624 Transp Port Co
213
Ryukyuan Truck Bn (Prov)
Sub Total
93
303
961
281
1638
AA (PS)
46 AAA Oper: Det: (PS).
87 AAA Gp Hq & Hq Btry
511 LA AW Bn (MBL) (PS).
592 AA Gun Bn (PB)
541 AA S1t Btry (PS)

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.98)
ENLISTED MEN AGG
OFF W CPB LAUTH
ARMY BANDS
11th Army Band (PS).
1
28
29
227th Army Band.
1
28
29
22
Sub Total
2
28
28
58
22
20
GRAND TOTAL
704
2196
1080
603910019
691
2062957
5873

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
HEADQUARTERS
RYUKYUS
COMMAND
APO 331
Report of Civilian Personnel (VIP) 1 October 1947
American Civiliens Employed in the Ryukyus
Male
Female
Total
Rykom
299
157
456
lst Air Division
232
70
302
Dist Engr & Army Audit
93
68
162
Holmes & Narver Construction
90
13
103
American Red Cross
6
37
43
Army Exchange Service
1
8
Concessionaires
2
1
Coca-Cola Company
2
Marsman Contractors
43
43
Maritime Personnel
36
36
Special Services
14
14
A & J Construction Co.
2233
111
2344
Total
3037
479
3516
Filipino Civilians Emploved in the Ryukyus
Rykom
454
15
469
1st Air Division
58
10
68
Dist Engr & Army Audit
Holmes & Narver Construction
American Rod Cross
6
6
Army Exchange Service (11 Chinese) 99
99
Concessionaires
(75 Chinese)123
123
Coca-Cola Coupany
4
4
Marsman Contractors
Maritire Personnel
360
360
Special Services
14
15
A & J Contractors
Total
1118
26
1144
TOTAL IN RYUKYUS
4155
505
4660
Total nur:ber of Established Positions - Rykor: Only 1620
Total nurmber of Positions Filled
- Ryko Only 925

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.98)
HEADQUARTERS
RYUKYUS
COMMAND
APO
331
1 0ct 47
(Date)
Status of Dependency Housing, Okinava
(VIP)
UNDER RYKOM OPERATION
COMPLETED QRTRS
ASSIGNED QRTRS
AVAILABLE
AREA
BY 15 Doc 47
BY 15 Doc.47
QRTRS FOR
(Date)
(Datc)
DEC LIST
Amasc
211
Buckncrville
87
Quartormaster
10
87th AMA
18
Mil Govt
20
Transportation
8
Nupunia
4
Boone
0
Miscollaneous
2
SUB TOTAL
360
296
64
UNDER 1 AD OPRATION
A
37
B
155
C
55
Naha
82
Niscellaneous
SUB TOTAL
329
297
32
UNDER NAVY OPERATION
Yonabaru
21
Naha
0
Miscellancous
0
SUB TOTAL
21
15
26
GRAND TOTAL
710
608
102
STUART M. ALLEY
Lt Col
GSC
A C of S,
G-1

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.98)
HEADQUARTERS
RYUKYUS
COMMAND
APO
331
1.00t 1947
(Dato)
Status of Dopendent Familios, Okinama
(VIP)
COIMAND
OFF
EM
CIV
TOTAL
RYKOM
141
19
13
178
1 AD
189
90
19
298
HERE
OKED
2
0
17
19
NAVY
6
6
0
12
TOTAL
332
109
54
495
RYKOM
39
1
从
ALERTED
(THRU
1 AD
112
23
1
136
Nov 47
PRIORITY
OKED
0
0
1
1
LIST)
NAVY
0
0
0
0
TOTAL
151
27
3
181
RYKOM
115
12
18
145
1 AD
119
172
8
299
WAITING
OKED
3
0
10
13
NAVY
0
0
0
0
TOTAL
237
184
36
457
STUART M. ALLEY
Lt Col
GSC
A C of S,
0-1

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.99)
HEADQUARTERS RYUKYUS COMMAND
WTC/rba
OFFICE OF THE CHEMICAL OFFICER
APO 331
7 October 1947
CURRENT REPORT OF CHEMICAL SERVICE (VIP)
I. COMMAND
1. The Chemical Service, RYKON, is commanded by lst Lt. William T.
Carney, CML C, who assumed command on 16 August 1947.
II. NISSION
1. To advise and assist the Commanding General, RYkOl,in matters
pertaining to Chemical Corps supply and training.
2. Operation of the RYkO Chemical Corps Depot.
III. SUBORDINATE UNITS
1. RYKOM CHEMICAL CORPS DEPOT
2. 9OTH CHEMICAL SERVICE DETACHMENT (PS)
IV. FUNCTIONS
1. The 9Oth Chemical Service Detachment (PS), having a strength
of one (1) officer and seventeen (17) enlisted men is the only Chemi-
cal Corps unit in the Ryukyus Command at this time. This detachment,
plus two (2) War Department Civilian Employees, operates the RYKOM
Chemical Corps Depot.
2. All Chemical Corps supplies necessary to the requirements of
this Command are received, stored and issued by the RYKOk Chemical
Corps Depot.
V. PRESENT ACTIVITIES
1. Receipt storage and issuè of Class II, IV and V Chemical Corps
supplies for the Ryukyus Command.
2. On-job-training of enlisted personnel.
3. Surveillance, segregation and rehabilitation of supplies and
equipment that have become unserviceable.
-1-

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.98)
CURRENT REPORT OF CHEZICAL SERVICE (VIP)(Cont'd)
4. Shipment of excess items to other commands which are in short
supply.
5. Shipment of excess critical items to Z/I.
6. Delivery of all surplus to Chinese government has been com-
pleted.
VI. FUTURE PLAIS
1. Continuation of present activities.
2. One small surplus declaration is contemplated in the near
future to dispose of supplies that are found to be unservicoable and
uneconomically repairable when turned in by using units.
3. Formulation of plans to take over Chemical Corps supply for
Air Force and Navy if called upon to do so.
WILLIAM T CARNEY
lst Lt.,
CML C
Chemical Officer
-2-

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.97)
HEADQUARTERS
ENGINEER SERVICE
APO 331
8 October 1947
Current Report of Engineer Service
I.
COMMAND
1. The Engineer Service 1s conranded by Lt Col Fred E.
Robbins, CE, who assumed his position on 28 August 1947.
2. The Engineer Service is comprised of the following
subordinate units:
a.
556th Eng1neor Service Battalion
b.
29th Enginoer Base Survey Company
C.
514th Eng1neer Depot Co (one Platoon) (PS)
d.
544th Eng1neer Construction Co (PS)
0.
697th Engineer Petroleum Diatribution Co (less
Operating Platoon) (PS)
f.
559th Engineer Fire Fichting Platoon (PS)
G.
586th Engineer Maintonance Platoon (PS)
h.
555th EnCineer Servico Detachment (Naintenance,
Type 3)
1.
560th Engineer Service Detachment (Utilities)(PS)
J.
63d Engineer Searchlight Detachment (In-
operative)
k.
Ryukyuan Construction Battalion (3 companies)
3. The Ryukyuan Construction Battalion and one new
Ryukyuan Construotion Company were organized per authority con-
tainod in paracraph 3, General Orders 53, Hq Ryukyus Command,
3 September l947; effective date of orcanization, 1 Soptember
1947. The 29th Engineer Base Survey Company was ass1gned to
Engineor Service and attached to GHQ Far East Command for
operational control per paragraph 1, General Orders 54, Hq
Ryukyus Command, 9 September 1947. The 555th Engineer Service
Detachment (Maintenance Team, Type 3) and the 560th Engineer
Service Detachment (Utilitios) (Ps) were rodesignatod per para-
Graph 2, General Orders 56, Hq Ryukyus Command, 16 Soptember
1947, without chango in numoricai dosignation.
II. MISSION
1. a. The mission of tho Engincer Sorvico, Ryukyus
Command, is to provide for and suporvise the oparation of
Enginoer activities in thc Ryukyus Command.
b. To exercise techniccl suporvision of the
Engineer construction forces and Enginoor countcrparts in
subordinate commands.

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.98)
c. To issue necessary orders, instruotions,
supplies, and equipmont to assigned units, and follow up to
insuro that operations aro consiatent to tho accomplishmont of
ho Engineer mission.
d. To accomplish its mission the Engineer Service
operatcs and administors the Naha and Sobe Engineor Depots
for tho distribution of supplies and oquipment; tho Naha
Kadona, and Whito Boach tank farms for tho storago and distri-
bution of al! PoL products; the combinod activities of the
Post Engincer ond four Ryukyuan Construction Companies for
Ro'x irs and Utilitios and now construc tion which includes the
Dopendont Housing 1n Naha, Kadena, Buckmervillo, Awaso, Soction
Basc, and NOB areas, as well as troop housing and the regular
R&U activitios.
e. A mission assumod by tho Enginecr Sorvice 1s the
training of nativo civilian labor in the performance of
construc tion and R&U activities. This was nocessary due to
the lack of sufficiont civilian and military porsonnel..
III. FUNCTIONS OF SUBORDINATE UNITS
1.
Operations Division:
a. Suporvises and oxorcisos technical supor-
vision of all construction, both intorim and pormanent.
b. Proparos nocessary layouts, plans, and work
ordors for all new construction not pcrformed by the District
Enginecr.
2. Post Engincer:
a. Porforms all R &: U activitios.
3. Subordinato Units:
a. 556th Engineer Sorvicc Battalion provides the
onlistod personncl for clcrical work and othor nocessary
adninistrtivo functions at Hoadquarters Engineor Troops.
Administors command responsibility of all Engineor Troops of
the Enginoor Sorvice,
b. 29th Enginoor Baso Survoy Company conducts a mapping
and survoying program for all tho Ryukyus Islands.
c. 514th Enginoor Dopot Company (Ps) conducts opora-
tion of the Naha Gonoral and Sparo Parts Depots. Rocoivos,
storcs, and issuos all Enginoor supplios and construction
matorials.
2

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.97)
d. 544th Eng1noer Conatruction Company (PS)
casists the Engineor in construction of troop and dependont
housing and in any other typo of construction activity.
0. 697th Engineer Potrolcum Distribution Company
(PS) rocoives and storos all POL products under the ¿uidanoo
of Sub-Area Petroloum Officcr, Ryukyus (SAPCR). Installs nem
and muintains oxisting pipolines and tank farms throughout
the commend.
f. 559th Enginoer Firo P1ghting Platoon (PS)
assists the Post Enginccr in tho maintonance of a firo depart-
mont and its associctod firo fichtins oquipmont.
C. 586th Engineer lMuintenenco Platoon (PS) pro-
vidos socurity for Sobo Encineer Dopot, and cssists tho Depot
Commandor in tho opcration and maintonenco of Engineer hoavy
equiprent and Enginoor rcpair shops within tho Depot.
h. 555th Enginocr Sorvice Dotachnent (Kaintonanco,
Typo 3) procosscs, ropairs, and maintains all reefors, houso-
hold rofrigorntors, and rcfrigorator facilities on Okinema.
1. 560th Enginccr Sorvicc Detachment (Util) (PS)
assists tho Post Encinocr in ropairs cnd utilitics activitios.
J. 63d Engincor Socrchl1ght Maintonancc Dotach-
mont  Inoporativo..
k. Ryukyuan Construc tion Bcttalion is used for
all Engineor construction activitics, both intorim and perma-
nont type.
IV. PRESENT ACTIVITIES
1. Currcnt ectivitios aro prosontly hamperod by lack
of qualificd poreonnol cnd the grcat nocd of sufficiont spare
parts for meintenenco and ropair of oquipmont.
a. Prosont operations includo tho sogrogation of
somo 47,000 M/T of surplus proporty for tho Chinosc covorn-
mont, one third of which hes siroady boon romoved. Approxi-
matcly 613 M/T of Engincor supplios and sparo parts woro re-
ceived, and 21o0 M/T hevo boon issued during tho samo month to
local supply aconcics.
b. During tho samo month tho Oporations Division
was ongagod in tho construction of 21 dopondent houscs at
Awaso, tho oporction of a small rock-cruahing plant, con-
struc tion of 35 quonscts for a native labor conpound, and tho
3

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.97)
complotion of troop housinE at tho Quartormastor Laundry.
Plans wore laid to convert tho presont laundry building and
for tho dovolopmont of a ncw depondont housing aron at Awase.
c. The Post Engineor during the month of Soptom-
bor has inspocted and rocoivod as conplcted construction the
nev Cuartormaster Lcundry, Neha storago warohousos, and elovon
sots of dopondont housing at Awaso. Inspoctions were made of
tho loccl wator systoms and conforonccs held in an ondoavor to
eliminato existing doficioncies. Thc usual ropairs and utili
ties activitios woro porformed, but w-rk ordors and requests
woro so crott cs to ccusc c sorious backlog.
d. All nocessary administrctivo functiona porti-
nont to the acconplishmont of tho mission woro porformod by
tho hdministrative Division and Headquartors of tho Engineor
Troops.
V.
FUTURE PLANS
1. A continuation of tho proscnt miesion, with
omphesis on tho dcmend for compctont and qualified porsonnol
and the incronsc in supplics of sparo parts for provontivo
msintcnanco and upkcop of oguipment.
2. Continuous training and proper utilization of
militery, civilian, and native labor, in all functions of tho
sorvice, to cfficiently and oxpoditionsly accomplish the
Eninecr mission.
F. E. ROBBINS
Lt Col, CE
Acting Staff Engineer
4

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.96)
HEADQUARTERS
LEDICAL TROOPS
RYUKYUS COLDHAND
APO 331
RMS/baa
8 Ootobor 1947
CURRENT REPORT OF LEDICAL ACTIVITIES (VIP)
I. COMLAND
1. The MEDICAL SERVICR is commanded by Lioutonant Colonol Jackson
B. Dismukes, who assumed his position on 11 Soptember 1947. Lieutenant
Colonol Dismukos servos in a dual capaoity as Surgeon of tho Ryukyus
Command and Commanding Officer, S7th Station Hospital (PS).
2. The MFDICAL SERVICE is comprised of the following subordinate
units:
a. 37th Station Hospital (PS)
(2)
RYKOU Disponsary
Maha Disponecry
(8)
Bucknerville Disponsary
(4)
NOB (Quartermastor) Disponsary
b. 536th Modion1 Supply Detnohmont
6. 5o7th Hodioal Optioal Ropair Dotaohment
d. 7oth Vetorinary Food Inspootion Dotaohment
e: 15lst Quartermaster Laundry Detnohmont (Ps)
f. 4th Malaria Survoy Dotaohment (Ps)
6. 44th Infantry Regiment (Ps) Disponsary
h. 87th AA Group (PS) Dispensary
i. Publio Health Department, Military Government
(1) Military Government Dispensary
J. Sth Malaria Gontrol Detachment (Ps) (Attached to Angineers
for Operations)
k. Bosth Malaria Gentrol Dotashment (Ps) (Attached to Engineers
for Operations)

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.99)
1. Port Surgeon, Naha Port (Operates out of Waha Dispensary)
m. Port Surgeon, White Beach(Operates out of NOB Dispensary )
II. MISSION
L. Hospital and Dispensuries
a. To conserve the fighting strength of the Army by providkmy
adequate medical care and hospitalization for army pers-
onnel in the Ryukyus Command,
b. o provide adoquate medical care and hospitalisation for
civilian empleyees and dependents in the Ryukyus Command.
o. Arrange evacuation of pationts by air and water to the
Zonc of the Inturior for further hospitalizationi
:2. Malaria Control and Survey Units
a. Maintain a program of constant mosquito survey and
institute control measures to control and destroy the
breeding places of mosquitoes.
b. Maintain a progrum of rodent control.
3. Medical Depot
a. Requisition, store and issue all medical supplies nosessa:
for the successful completion of the Medical mission in t
Ryukyus.
4. Veterinarsy Food Inspection Detachment
a. Inspect all perishable food supplies arriving or leaving
the Ryukyus Command and to confisoate all food unfit for
human consumption.
b. Maintain a small animal olinic and veterinary sertice for
the oare of aninals on Okinawa for the purpose of provent
ing transmission of diseases that are carried from animal:
to man.
c. The protection and preservation of livostock in hahds of
Okinawans.
5. Port surgeons
To supervise the immunation of personnel leaving the
Ryukus Copmand for the purpose of preventing the trans-
mission of disease to the Zone of Interior or other theat

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.97)
III. FUNOTIONS OF SUBORDINATE UNITS
1. 37th STATION HOSPITAL (PS)
Providos porsonnel nnd fuoilities nocossary for hospital-
ization, oaro and troatmont of hrmy porsonnol, oivilian
omployous and .dopondonte of thu Ryukyus Command.
2. Dispcnsarics
Providcs out-pationt troatmont for Army porsonml, oivilian
omployccs and dopondents of th Ryukyus Command.
3. 536th Lodioal Sup ly Dotachment
Provides personnel and facilitics for proouromont, storago
and issuc of all modioal sup lics nooossary for tho suoooss-
ful treatmont and carc of pationts
507th Wodioal Optioal Ropair Dotaohmont
Sunplics porsonnol and faoilitios for the proourcmont and
issuanoc of optioal supplics and grinding lonsos ncoessary
for rorair and issuanoo of snootnolcs to porsonnol of tho
Ryukyus Command.
5. 70th Votcrinary Food Inspcotion Dotaehmunt
Providcs porsonnol and faoilitics for tho inspootion of all
porishablo food supplios arriving or loaving Okinawa and the
oporation of a small animal olinio.
6. 15lst Quartcrmastor Laundry Dotaohmont (PS)
Providcs scrvioos for tho laundoring of hos;it.1 linons.
7. 4th Malaria Survoy Dctnohmont (PS)
Survoys terrain for possiblo brooding plaoos of mosquitoos,
flios, oto. Classifios typo and spocics of mosquitoos found.
and makos rocommendations for climimtion of mosquito brood-
ing plaocs.
8. Publio Hoalth Dopartmont, Military Govornmont
Rosponsiblo for suporvising hospitalisntion and.troatmont of
nativo population: for sanitation insxxotions and provontivo
modicino onmpaigns for nativo population.
8

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.98)
9.. 5th and 508th Malaria Control Detaclments (PS)
Responsiblo for control measures over the breeding of
mosquitues, rats, vurmin, flies, etc.
IV. PRESENT AC TIVITES
L. Statistical summary of the 37th Station Hospital (rs) is
attached herewith as Insl # 1.
2. Monthly Dent Operations Report (Report Control Symbol
CC4-77-R1) is attached herewith as Ino1 # 2.
3. Recapitulation of 7Oth Veterinary Food Inspection Dotaohment
for month of Scptember is attached herewith as Incl # 3.
4. The Nonthly: Operations R., ort of Malaria and Inseot Control
for the Ryukyus Command by the 4th Malaria Survey Detachment
((PS) and 5th and 508th M 1aria Control Detachments (PS) is
atcacned herewith as Inc? #4.
V. FUTURE PLANS
1. a continuation of the present mission with an ever-increasing
emphasis on thc following:
a. Completion of constraction, theroby increasing tho capacity
of the 37th Station Hospital (Ps) to 750 beds.
2. Expanding tho prősent malaria control measures and continuance
of the program on a year to year basis.
3. amplifying the prusent dispensary net-work in order to peovide
greator coveage for out-pationt and initial medical care by the follow-
ing measures:
a. Inoreasing Medical Corps pereonnel now engaged in dispensary
work.
b. Providing more adequate amtulance servioo.
4. Amplifying the Fuolio health Department, Military Government,
by inoreasing the number of Medioal Corps Offisers now on duty with
Military Governmont.
5. The instnuction and cupervision of sanitary meusures to improve
the sanitatidn of the Island for the benofit of the army and sivilian
employecos, together with the native po ulation of the Ryukyus Command.
4

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.94)
6. To sot up an agrossivo, comprohonsivo and continuous training
program d signod to inoronso thc officionoy of Ucdionl Dopartmont
porsonnel and to raiso tho standards of tho Ncdionl Dopartmont of tho
Ryukyus Command to the. highest lcvol.
FOR THE COMMANDING OFFICER:
Elurardm Atifel
EDWARD M. STROBEL
1st Lt
uSC
Historioal Rocords Offioor

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.96)
STATISTICAL SUMMARY
37th Station Hospital (PS)
Beds Established:
443
B-ds Occupid
327
1.
rmy
241
2. Navy
1
3.
Marine
0
4.
Othors
85
0
Awaitin Evacuation:
1
:s
1
1
:N
0
1
B
0
1
C
0
2
2
3
3
4
0
5
0
6
Total
Total Evacuated
Total Evacuated
this month
in 1947
By ir
26
By Air
172
By Water
61
By Water
358
Total
87
Total
530
Inc!.

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.96)
EXTR:CT OF PERTINENT DATA: FROL HONTHLY DEPOT OPARATIONS E
SECTION I
STOR'GE SPACE ND OCCUP^NCY
(Thousands of Square Feet)
ITEI
COVERED
OPEN
Occupied
Hardstandings
Unimproved
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
1.
TOT L GROSS STOR'GE R
40
104
2.
NON-STOR GE SPAC IN STOR'GL
R
2
0
3.
ARE: AVAILABL FOR STOR GL
(Iten. 1 vinus 2)
38
104
4.
BIN STOR .GE AR
2
5.
ISLES AND RECLIVING D
SHIPLING RL .S
18
64
6.
NET US IBL GENRAL STOR GE
SPACE (It-. 3 .inus (1 plus 5)
18
140
7.
VC NT (Iten. 6 rinus 8)
4
33
8.
OCCUPIED (Ite... 6 .inus 7)
14
7
1
9.
OCCUPICD BY HON-US :BL
SUPPLIS (Ite: 9a plus 9b)
1
7
0
a. Surplus Equipront
1
7
0
b. Exccss equipi.nt
0
0
0
10.
RT UIDER CONSTRUCTION
0
0
SECTION II
M TERI'LS HAIDL_D
D IN STORAG
( asurerent Tons)
ITM
TO TAL
COVeRLD
OPEN
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
1.
T SR G T BLGIHIHG OF
4308
21462
1846
2.
P) P STOR G DUO1
-168
-296
-784
Tr 
na

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.93)
TTEN
TCTAL
COVEREDOPEN
(1)
ERTOD
3840
0750
1082
a.
Io be retained for Theatre
U.,e
2840
b. To be Returned to the g/I
0
c.
Declared Surnlus
1200
d.
To be Declared Surnlus
0
e.
Other Disnosition
(1) To be shinned to Other
Commands
0
(2) Disposition Unknom
0
TONNAGE RECEIVED
10
5.
TOFAGE SHIPPED 478
a. From the U.S.
4
a. To Zone of Interior
0
b. From other Base
2
b. To other Bases or Commands 86
c. Turn-Ins
4
c. To Local Supnly Agencies
or Using Organizations
66
d. Saplus Pronerty Sold
325
e Destroyed by Demi itar-
ization
0
General
Vehicles and
Total
Suprlies
Mobile Equip.
6. TONNAGE OTHERTISE HANDLED
1286
7786
0
a. Inter-denot transf rs
86
36
0
b. Rewarehoused
1000
C00
0
c. Transferred to Surnlus
Ponerty Area
200
200
0
SECTION III
MATERIALS HAIDLING EQUIPME.T
Nrnbel on Han! 12: Jperation
Number Out
LYPE OF EQUIPMENT
Solid PrJumarie
Cravler
of Service
Total Tire
Tired
Mounted
(Daily Average)
(
[2)(3)
(4)
(5)
(6
1. FORY JFT PROCKS
4
2
2
X
2
2. TOTTY TRACTORS
1
0
1
0
1
3. MOSIL CPANES
Thre a plus 3b)
1
0
1
0
1
a. 5 ton capacity or loss 1
0
1
0
1
c Over 25 ton capacity
Incl /?-Page 2

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.97)
RECA ITUALTION ON 7OTH VETERINARY FOOD
INSPECTION FOR MONTH ENDING
30 September 1947
AM'T IN LBS
Total Sub-i.r of a lmal origin rucei.ed
753607
Total uv eve a iral Origin recorvo 98420
Grand 7ut
1738227
Total Stbisiance of animal origin
handled thru reclamation center
16231
Total Subsistence of non-animal origin
handled thru reclamation center
52408
Grand Total
68639
Total Subsistence of animal origin
condomned as unfit for human consumption
13034
Total Subsistence of non-animal origin
condemned as unfit for human consumption
12248
Grand Total
25482
Total Subsistence of animal origin
issued to troops during month
1:38017
Total Subsistence of non-animal origin
issued to troops during month
2049836
Grand Total
3787853
Inc h3

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.96)
SUCARY OF OPRRATIONS OF N.LARIA AND INSMOT COMEROL
1. Summary of Entomologists hotivitos, findings and conslusie
a. Total rainfall and avorage daily temperature:
(1) Rainfall.
. 2.43 inohes
(2) Temperaturos
(a) Mean Maximm.
(b) Moan Minimum.
750
(3) Promiling Wind
ENE
(4) Moan Wind Volooity
8 mph
(5) Monthly Rainfall and muan maximum tomporatures:
Soptombor
August
July
Juno
May
2.43
9.16
14.05
10.21
5.38
87°F
88°F
86°p
82°F
77℃F
b. Entomologioal Activitios
(1) Tho following spocimons havo been collootod during
tho month:
Date of Dato of
Rosults of
Station larvioi- Collect- Numbor of
Spooimen
larvioiding
Number
ding
ion
dips
collected
& Recommendations'
L-12
21 Aug 47 9 Sopt 47. 6
Culex Trit.
25% dead laryee
& Culex Bit,
on rico paddiés è
10% dead larvee
on ravines & stag-
nant wator not
accessible by plame
spraying. Spraying
by manpower is
reoommended on such
aroas.
L-24
22 Aug 47 11 8ept 47 30
No mosquito
lárinè áollootedheoommonded that
area be olimima
from plane

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.92)
i0n
ain
L8423 4ug €7 11 Sept 47
Culox Quin.
& Culox Fut.
larvee on stoo
that this aree be
sprayed by plane
onco a weel, with
anothor solktion
and doable she
amount of not.
L-12
4 Sopt 47 11 Sopt 47 .6. Culox Trit.
80% dead lartee cm
& Culox Bit.
rice paddies and
25% doad larvee on
ravine & stagmant
wator not aooess-
iblo by plane sprag
ing.
L-20
5 Sept 7 11 Sept 47
8 7-d. Byr. Sin
10% dond larvee on
13-C. Quin.
rice paddies which
shows that the 
of DDT sprayed was
not onough.
L-26
6 Sept 47 11 Sopt.47. 6 2- Hyr. Sin. 830 gale of Wmiool
9-C. Quin.
0i1 with 6% nDT me
sprayod on almgst
500 aores of riee
paddies..s0% dead
larvae collsated,
Rocommonded area be
sprayod onoe a weok.
(2) This survoy was undertakon by the 4th Malaric Surveay
Detaohmont (Ps) just aftor spraying was made by an L-5. Partioular
attention was given mostly on riod paddies whoro in most cases beavy
broeding of mosquito larvae was found.
(3) Idontification of larvae and adult specimons has been
accomplished by enlistod, men of this detachmomt. Spoeimene unident-
ifiable weve sont to the Srd Modical Gonmral Laboratory. 4 trained
ontomologlst has beon added to the Staff of the Post Bngimer.
(4) Unit mativities of he Survey Detuohment have beon ourtakse
by lack af transportation. hepeated requisitions havo been urhonored
Informatlon reseived states that the T/o a & will be fillod shis
A large area moar Mahe br Baso wan disoovered where breadine of 0
Zrit wae kigh. atepe to control this aro have been mde.

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.96)
2. Summary of Parneitolngists' Lotivitios: No pa
aotivitos wuro porfori lurirg ho month o? sntomber.
8. Summary of Sanitary Kugireors' Ronort
a. Gonornl-- This work is porf-rmod vith the holp of mti
labor and cnsists of ditohing (small projoots), spraying with DDT
insootioidos, buth inside and outsido of buildins, dusting rioo
paddios with DDT in talo, filling holus, destroying oontaimers found
to bo brooding lroos of flios and mosquitoes and olearin; oxisting
streams of impodiments to tho flow thoroof.
b. ctivites of tho 50sth alaria Control Doteohmert (P8):
575
Man days (military).
750
Man days (nativo).
175
Vohiclo days. ..
3% DDT DDT
DDT EMULSION DDT DUST
ORG.NIZ.TIONS
SERVED
RYKOM HEADQUARTERS ARA:
95 gal
15 gal
Rykom Officors' Club
30
El Moss Hall (Central Mess Hall)
150
30
Womon's Compound
60
20
Filipino Civilian Compound
45
20
Guost House
30
10
Goncral's Liess He:ll
15
5
Rostaurant
130
Easloy Bowl Theater
155 1be
Rioo Tnddies
10
Sigual Crps (K)
RYOU Atrs Aron (Bushes and
250
Tall Grassos)
6
CID Detaohment
50
10
560th Engr Sv Det
Village (North of 560th Engr
300
100
Sv Det)
50
20
PE Okinawn Civilian Compound
220
RYKOM Stockade
10
WXLH Station
116TH MILITARY FOLICE COMPANY
255
25
Company Aroa
200
25
Kin & Imbu Outposts
85
10
DAILY CKINWAN
330
OKIMATIL. UNIVERSITY

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.94)
ORGANIZLTIONS
3% ODT
DOT
DOT
SAn VED
DIEPEL
KEROSSIB
414SE ARELS
660
50
DUMPS
Nnkamo
50
Naha
110
Futem
55
RYKOU
110
Cushikawn
150
QUARTETIL. STER DEFOT (TENG.N)
900
120
87TH ST/TIOU HOSFIT.L (TS)
250
583RD UI VES REGISTRTION SV
DATLCHIENT
60
30
hoho.
511th
40
632nd
15
30
CAMP FILIPIN.S
100
15
226 TH ODN. NCE
2. SE DEPOT
20
COCA COLA PL.NT
50
15
176TH SIGNAL IEFAIR CO.
50
30
44TH INF DET LiCHINTO (inoludos
70th Chom Det & hh. Depot)
50
TRANSTORTATICN CORPS
Officers Quarters
100
30
6lst T.C.
30
MITIVE LABOR COMPOUND (Dook Area)
) 200
357TH QH SV CO (PS) (Inoludos
71st & 74th QM Bakory)
100
25
BOCKMERVILLE
200
40
5365
805
30
165
Inal €--Page 4

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.95)
o. Activitios of the Sth Malaria Control Do
(1) The mission of this organisation is the contsel
of insocts and rodents. It operates, also, the
DDT Dissolving and ixing Plnnt Joontod at the
Purplo Bonoh Tank Farm and handles tho distrib-
ution  nd suprly of DDT to tho Army and Lir Foroos.
(2) . The folloving is a summary of tho notivites of the
DDT Mixing Plant for the month of Soptomber:
Mnn days (Militrry).
.104
Man days (Nativo).
156
Trusk dnys
No. of lbs DDT Tovdor dissolvod.
7800
No. of Guls Diosol Uil used.
19800
No. of nls DDT Solution issued to:
iir and Ground Foroes.
18700
MMlitary Governmont.
600
Navoy. ..
0
TOL.L
19300
d. Tho following is a sumnry of tho unit aotivites in Rodent
Control:
rea or Orgn
Pounds (Poison Bait)
RYKO! Aroa
60
Naha i Bakory
20
Awaso Aroa
20
556th Engr Sv Bn
20
NOB .archouso
30
XLI Station
10
623rd ACTiS omon's Compound
20
Post Engr Civilian Compaund
15
Signal Co Hachinato
30
Unit brea
20
560th Engr Utility Det
10
TOTLL
250
5, Progress of training program for military control of alarie
and Inseot-Borne disoasos:
Satisfactory
6. Status of all personel ongaged primrily in seot control:
strength at ond of month
Units
Lopation
420
Ofricors
ZEh Ksn
OEnora
381
5th MCD
Okinawa
331
BOSth MOD
Okinawa
331
Status of Inseut and Rodent Coutrol Supplies--

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.94)
HEADÇUARTE-8
226TH ORDRANCE BASE DEFOT
APO 331
7 OCT 1947
CURRENT REI CRT OF CRD :N F SERVICE AND SUPPLIES (VIP)
I. COML.AND
1. The 226th KD. NCE BASE DE. OT is commanded
ry Colorel Olaf P. Winningstad, Ord Dept, who
as umed ris rositio on 10 April 1947.
2. The 226TH RDN NCE BASE DEFOT 1s comprised
of the follouirg subordin te units:
a. Headquarters and Headquerters, etachment,
726th Ordrance Bese Depot
b.
504th Ordnance Depot Supply Platoen
C.
58ist Ordrance He vy Autoaotive Maint-
enance Crmpany
* d.
188th Orinance Base De ot Company (PS)
* e.
9 th Service Detachment (PS)
* f.
22th Ordnance Heavy Meintenance Company (PS)
* g.
J04th Crdnance Tire Repair Detachment
(ML1)(PS)
* ri.
605th Ordnar.ce Medium Maintenance Company
()
* i.
554th Ordnance Medium Automotive Maint-
enence Corrany (PS)
* j.
3rd Ordnance Brmb Disrosal Squad (PS)
* k.
5/5th Ordnance Ammunition Comnany (PS)
* 1.
505th Ammunitic: Letachment (PS)
* a.
Anti-Tork Co - 44th Infantry on D/S
* h.
Com any "D" 44th Infantry
TI. MISETON
1.  rec ive. store, a is ue Ordnence ganeral
li frd ammun ion as ness ry.
?. To prrfur third ecni n and higher echelon
mionance for a i equipment of the command for which
:o rssp. neib:lity of meintenirce is assigned to the
Crv crre Department.
cmritlol as mey be required.
To disp se of excess Ordnance stocks by de-
n Liturizatoxn, demolition, shinment, or as required.
5. To dispose of surplus Ordnance property.

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.96)
CURRENT RE ORT OF ORDN.INCE SERVICE AND SUP LIES (VIP) (COBT'A)
III. FUNCT ONS OF SUBORDINATE UNITS
1. Thc Hecdquarters and Headqucrters Datachment,
226tr Ordnance Basc D:pot provides enlisted persdnnel for
clerical vork, notor pool functions, and othcr administrative
functions at Headqurters.
2. PEPOT DIVISICN - The 504th Ord Depot Supply Platoon
and 18sth Crd Bas T ot Co (Fs) work in sectmons such as
adninistration, t r: sepims, issuing & recuiving, supplus
pronerty  sal. recl ation, operation cf equipment, stock
contrel nd rro:i mintenance of the Dopot Pivision.
3. AREFT DIVISICN - The 96th Sorv De: (PS) repai
end raintnins Firc Control. Some porsonnel oi the 605th Or
MM Co (PS) and the 554th Or! MAM Co (PS) process meterie1 for
return to Zonc of Intcrior. Tho 99th Ord HM Co (PS) stcffs shops
witl: pcrsonncl for smcll arns, ertillery, instrunent, and
carpenter shops.
4. LUTOOTIVE DIVISIOI: - The 581st Ord HAM Co provides
mechenics vorking in shons such as brako-jeep-tire-paint-
supply-welding-and wash reck shops. The 99th Ord i Co (Ps)
work in the joep sliops, paint shops and utilities shops.
The 605th consists of porsonnol working in the jecp-brake-
welding-paint-sign painting-and supply shops. The 554th M Co
crc mechanies in the Heevy Meintenance Shops. The 504th Ord
Tire Repair Det (PS) mork in the Tire Shop.
5. MUNITICN DIVISION - The ammpnition units consist
of the 575th Ord Ammo Do (PS), 505th Ord Anro Det (PS) and the
3re Ord Bomb Disp Squed who are involved in the destruction,
derokittone dunping at sca, and the storage of U.S. end Japenese
bonbs snd artillery projectors.
6. The inti-Tank, 44th Infantry and Co D, 44th Irfantry
vho are now on D/s vith this De ot sre available es security
gucrds and c labor battalion in the Do ct Disivion. They are
also assigned as a utilities unit in the .utrotive Livision.
IV. PRESENT ACTIVITIES
1. ARILAMENT DIVISIOI - During the month of Scptember 47,
the Armament Division processed and corpleted 354 pieces of
heavy combat materiel, totalling 3,289 L/T for shiprent to &/I.
.puroximetely 230 rilitary and civilien pereonnel cre assigned
to the rnanent Division to oarry out the functions of the
Naha and Ima Mcintenance Depots and Smcll Arms, Machino,
Lrtillery, Instruent, Carpenter end Supply Shops. ll Hoavy
combet vchicles havo been stored in the Fute a and Ims storage
areas, and aro hauled or towed to the Naha and Iva Haintenance

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.93)
CURRENT RE ORT OF CDNANCE SERVICE-NT SUP LIES (VIN) (COnt'd)
this, the Ime Maintenange Denat is prgesanth
Armunition Division, 226th C. dnance Base Lupot. : The Supply
Branch of the irmament Division is completing an inventory
of all corbet equipment, including instruments, small erms,
to using units in the Ryukyus Cormand in acdordepce with
T/O & E.
-ition; ll cutdoor storage sites were insposted in the
Tontan-Xedena ren, reas "B", "C, "T", and the Haharea
Cleaning up of extrene fire and explosive hasard, that are:
evident has been earried out ?uring the month.
45 revetments nore cleared, and anmunition destroyed by
denolition and Curnin( ct sea, of vhich 22 Sere:in the Naba
.rea, 13 in "B" . rca, 5 in "D" rea, and 2 in Yontan-Kadeha
Lrea.
Movement of nntcrial for the erection of 10 20'by501 quon-
sets has beon underway s of 26 Sopt to the Yonten-Kadena
Area. Efforss are being made to secure 3 Jumbo qunnsets
no7 occupied by the 44t! Infantry as maintenance shops for
tho storege of Class I cn Class IV Armunition.
Tork of controlling vegatetion within the mmunition sites
in "B" rea and thc Nehc rce bas been ccrried out during
the month vith native wonon labor. 73 sites in "B" rea and
31 sites in Nahe ren were clearod. 4ttempts are being made
with native labor to maintain roads in Nahn Area and a feir
showing hes beon mmdo.
(b) Renovation; Tho 595th Ordnance Ammunition Co (P6): hes
rade a creditable shoring and mill be of greet assistanoe in
the future on restoring and inspection of cnmunition of
amrunition to be held for disposition lovel. The Borb
Disposal Squad is continually romoving and cestroying non-
uscble and excoss moricen and Japenese cnmunttion fron all
points on the island.
(c) Disposition; Disposition of Grtde III and Exoess
Amunition wes:
Durped at Sea
2,66358
Destroyedb. Demolition
9248/T
Destroyed by Burning
158/π
Damppd at Soa for Chenioal Depot
492.BA
4,036.9 8/T
3. LEPOT LIVISI N - The Stook Pontrol Branoh has
processcd 1,641 requosts totalling 10,489 itema: The
storage Section probessed a like muibor of,requosts, issuing
904 M/T of parts and aacessories and 201 vehioles. Received
148 M/T
-3-

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.96)
CURRENT REPORT OF ORDNANCE SERVICE AND SUPPLIES (VIP) (ConT'a)
of parts and ronoved fror bulk storage and binned 250 WT
of parts. Moved 257 vehiclcs and towed weapons into the
depot from other areas. Receiving and Classification Seotion
received 345 unserviceable vehiolos. 281 vehioles an? 557
wea ons vero procesacd to be made RrI. Transportation Seotion
shipped out 560 M/T of parts. Surplus Property Branch physic-
nlly delivored 4,687 M/T of property to.the Chinese. The
Labor Section reeruhoused 14,206 M/T of netorial and vebioles
on tho ost Strip.
4. ..UTO! CTIVE IIVISICN - Job orders completed by the
.utorotive Division cro as folloms:
TOTAL NO. MEN
AVER&GE N).
JOBS
IVOLVED
MZN-IOURS
COMPLETED
ER JOB
Vohiclos for Using Units
26
8
23
Vohiclos for RFI
272
94
Misc. Se2vice Jobs
75
7
15
C & I for Dopot
40
7
2
C & I for Shops
456.
MHE Using Unit
3
3
95
MHE RFE
2)
Overhead
27
The Soptonber priority list ostablished by the Last Chief of
Staff, G-4, was corpleted except for the repair and issue of
3/4 ton Weapons Cerriers, 1t ton personnel carriers, 2t ton
and 4 ton durp trucks. These vehicles nered wore in such a
bad condition that it vas inposmmible to cot ther ready for
issue during the month of Sept. Inoluded in the above figures
ere a Speciel priority for 21 2g-ton cargo trucks (for the.
ir Forces) thich are to be usod to hnul ammunition. The
Lsst Chief of Staff, G-4, sstablished a priority for convert-
ing 30 4-ton dump truoks into fifth whee1 tractors for the
Transportation Corps, this priority as to be completed. by
the 15 Oct. Three enlisted nen fror the phops spent epprox-
imately ono veek constructing a float for Or'nance for the
Labor Day Tarado.
V. FUTURE PLANS
1.. A continuation of the present nission with spectat
orphasis on securine necessary personnel to perforn said
duties in the nost efricient mamer., To keep the vehicles
on the road. To clean up the anmunition dunps.
1.5
95
27

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.94)
CUFRENT REPORT OF ORDNANCE SERVICE AND SUPPLIES (VIP)(COB$'C)
2. To contimue training of native civilians as auto
shon nechenics c.ssistants, utilitics branoh porsonnel, olerical
as istents, denct opore.t ons porsonnel, chaurfcurs, and notor
pool mochanics. It is cur ain to utilise trained native per-
sonnel vhorcver possjbl:
HARREY BOTER
Lt Gol, Ord Dopt
Control of:r
LEGEND
* Filipino Porsonnol

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.97)
HE JCULTERS
561st Gu....  nster Group
¿PU
331-6
8 October 1947
CURRENT REPORT OF QUARTERMASTER SERVICE (VIP)
I. COMMAND
1. The QUARTERMASTER SERVICE is Conmandod by Colonel Carter M. Kolb, QMC
who assuned his pcsition January 1946.
2. The QUARTERMASTER SERVICE is comprisod of th: folloving sections:
a. RYKOM QUARTERM.STER DEPOT
Subordinato Unit:
1st QM Pet Frod Lah
3th QM Service Co (Ps)
. Oth QM Depot Sup Plat (PS)
525th QM Cold Storage Plat (PS)
507th QM Gas Supply Plct (PS)
b. CUARTERMASTER SERVICL DIVISION
Subordinate Units:
71st QM Bakery Plat (PS)
74th QM Bckory Plat (PS)
79th QM Dry Clcaning Det (PS)
261st QM Laundry Plat (PS)
502nd QM Salv Rcp Plat
566th QM Office Mach Rep Det (PS)
569th QM Office Mach Rep Det (PS)
586th QM Sales Dot
c. GRAVES REGISTRATION ACTIVITIES
583rd QM Graves Registrction Co
d. HOUSE-KEEPING UNITS
561st QM Group, Hq & Hq Det
34th QM Bn, Hq & Hq Dot
3. Tho following units vero inactiviated during month of Septenber 1947,
per authority Goncral Order 53, Hq, Ryukyus Conmand, AP0 331, deted 3 Sept 1947.
Co. "A" Ryukyuan Servico Bn (Prov)
Co. "B" Ryukyuan Service Bn (Prov)
Co. "C" Ryukyuan Service Bn (Prov)
Co. "D" Ryukyuan Sorvice Bn (Prov)
Co. "E" Ryukyuan Service Bn (Prov)
1

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.96)
II. MISSION
1. RYKON CUARTERN.STER DEPOT
a. The mission of the RYkol Qu rtcr ster Dupot is to roceive, store, and
issuo cll Quartermastor iteris used cn Okinavc. This includcs food, clothing,
general supplios cnd cll Petroleun products including bulk aviction msoline.
Accountability is also naintrined on Milit ry Govornnent subsistenco and trade goode
b. Tho RYkol Qurrternxster Depct consists of tho nain Depot ct Tangen
and Sub-Depots at Nahc, Scbc cnd Kadcnc. Although considerod cs parts of the
cnd Tengan Depots, separate petrolcun stormro arons cro operated at
Nehe 1ort, Seuth cf Fahc (Package Yard), end Whito Beach.
2. CUARTERII.STER SERVICE DIVISICN -- The missir cf the Servico Division is
to supervisc, coordinato cnd naintain ufficient pre: ion of miscellaneous QM
Services outsido cf regular supply. Those inc a. viccs offered by the 10,000
man Laundry, 5,000 man Dry l ring Flant, tvo conmiasurics locatcd ct Awase end
Bucknerville, Salvage Repcir. ti  tics, Sclcs S. . Lakery and Coffee Roasting
Plant.
3. GRAVES REGISTRATION
nission of Gr s Rogistration Service
Ryukyus Comnond, is to supcrvi dninister, cccrdintc nd maintain the six
(6) ceneteries on Okincra unti)   e cventur1 rup tri ticn to the Zono of Interior
or concentraticn to such pcint ( points to bo designc.ted by the Comnanding Officer,
Anerican Graves Recistration Scrvice, Fer Enstern Zone. The nission of this
organization urther includes Acmuistration cnd Records, Concontrction, Seerch
Recovery, Identification, Current Deaths, end Conetery Mainténance. The
Jo3rd QM Graves Registretion Conpany furnishcs the nuclcus of personnel for these
functions.
4. HOUSE-KEEPING UNITS -- The mission cf the licusc-kceping units is to
perform all administretive nd supervisory urctions for the sections and units
assigned to Qucrtermcster Group. The units prcvico over-head personnel for
these functions.
III. FUNCTIONS OF SUBORDINATE UNITS
1. RYKON QUARTERMASTER DEPOT
a. The 1st QM Pet Frod Leb is to test cnd check samples of all Petroleum
products stcred cnd issuod by the Rykon Quarternnstor Depot.
b. Tho 357th QM Sorvico Co (PS) provides personnel for security and ware-
house functions that roquire labor and labor supervision.
c. The 520th CM Depot Supply Platoon furnishes personnel for the Tengan,
Neha, and Scbo Depots.
d. The 525th QM Ccld Storage F1at (PS) handles stcrage and issue of per-
ishables at the Tengan Roefers end the Reefer Barge.

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.95)
III. FUNCTIONS OF SUBORDINATE UNITS: (COnTinuod)
2. QUARTERMASTER SERVICE DIVISION
a. Tho 71st and 74th QM Bckery Ilatoons (PS) bakcs end issues bread to
all arny units in tho Ryukyus Corwand end tc all Connissarics.
b. Thc 79th Dry Clocning Dct (PS) operc.tos to provide adoquate cleaning
focilitice fcr the pcrsonnel cn Okinaa at the site cf the 10,000 nen launery.
The Dry cloaning plant is cquipped t. handle a meximun cf servico for 5,000 nen.
c. Tho 261st Q! Lcundry Flat (FS) provides scrvice for 20% of the Is1ad
strencth at the prcsont time. Tho laundry is opercted vith the assistence of
Filipinc end Okincvan civiliens end Ancrican civilirns hold superviaory positions.
d. Tho 502nd QM Salvago Ropair Platoon is rosponsille for the ropair
of shees, clcthing, wobbing, tentc c, ccsclino stov und cther Quarternaster itemp
of oquipnent and ocnducts sclvge nctivitics fcr tho (M tiroughout the Ryukyus
Connand.
e. The 566t) and 55 +n 0M Offico Machin  ir D tachnents (PS) operate
to maintain and repcr tyms, adding-nac    er office nachine
equipnent vith the cid cf (k ravn civilien m hs r vork under tho super
visien of the Operatirns C  salvage and Repair ateo.
f. Thc S3r.h  Srls Det chuent operates and rr. nte ins Scles Conmissaries
at the Bucknervill cl huast do-  dent heusine crens. The detachnent further
operates the C cicihing S. I Sicre at Tengen.
3. GR/VES REGISTRATIO SLRVICE (583rd CM Graves Registraticn)
a. The Graves Recistration Service is respensible for the edministretion
and naintonance of rec rds regarding the  odies ccrnitted tc the ground in the
Ryukyus Connend. It hcs initiated concentrcticn activities fcr the concentration.
of Wcrld Wcr II decd in the Island Connand Cenetery from the outlying islands
of the Ryukyus group. Soarch and Rccovery cporctions are carried on to locate
sing personnel usinf a ncbilc identificction laboratcry fcr the identification
ronains. The Service attends to current dccths occurring cn the island, both
for internent and fcr repatrintion of dececscd personnel. It nainteins ali
ceneteries in vhich "orld Far II dead are buried.
4. HOUSE-KEEFING UNITS -- Tho Hq & Hq Detcchnents cf bcth the 34th QM Bn
and the 56lst QM Grcup conbine to adrinister to cnd supervise the units assigned
to 561st QM Grcup.
IV. PRESENT ACTIVITIES
1. RYKOM QUARTERMASTER DEPOT
c. During the ncnth cf Septenber 1947, approxinctely 2500 neasurenent
tons of ucrternaster supplics cthor then porishablo subsistenco were received and
3200 necsuronent tcns shipped. Apprcxinately 2000 neansurenent tons of perishablee
rere roceived and 2l00 nesurenent tons issuod.
3

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.97)
IV. PRESENT ACTIVITIES (Continucd)
b. During the month, the move cf property fron Nahc and Sobe to Tengan
continued. During the last cf the mcnth, heuling frcm Nahr wes stopped and all
available trensportaticn shifted tc Scbe vherc nore critically needed itons are
stored. It is plcnned to clear thc Scbo Depct vithin six (6) vecks cnd turn over
the cren end remnining stccks to the Militrry Gcvernnent.
c. All wool clothing rencining at Scbc is ncw being scrted in an effort
to obtain a sufficicnt stock tc nect nocds this vinter. PHiLRYCOM adviscs that
wool clothing in snall sizcs vill bo nanufactured in the Philippincs but that
lergor sizcs must bo salvaged fron stccks cn hand.
d. At the later part of the nonth, a large open storago nrea on the
Tengen Post vms assirned to the Depot for storage cf drunned petrcleun products.
All inconing shipnents arc new being received there cnd it is planned to closo out
Neha and Kedena packarc farns by gradual issue cf all itens at these locations.
c. The Depct vns inspectcd sevcral tines during the ncnth by representa-
tives fren FHILRYCOM and RYKOM. A dctailod inspection wcs conducted by a teen
fre Quarternaster, PHILRYCOM. They connented that storcge had inproved greatly
si  the last inspection and agrced that additional civilian porsonnel, which
has been cn requisiticn for scnc tinc, must be obtcincd befcrc all presêribed
procedures can bo placcd into effect. An inspecting party from G-4, PHILRYCoM,
headed by Mr. Lanre alsc oxpressed thenselves as pleased vith progress being nade.
They agreed thet prccurenent cf additicnal personncl was new the nain problem
and pronised to check cn recruitnent vhen they returned to Manila.
2. SERVICE DIVISION
a. Installation of equipnent in the new pernenent post bakery at
Tengen bcgan. Date cf ccnplctien is tentative schedulcc for 10 November 1947.
b. Thc coffec-rccsting plant cpencd nd will begain supplying freshly
ronsted coffce tc all requcsting units apprcxinctely 10 0ctcbar 1947.
c. Thc Awasc cnd Bucknervillc Connissarics served a total of 2088 persons
snack bars nd clubs during thc month cf October.
d. Opcraticns ct the laundry and dry clcaning plants aro continuing ct
20% of capccity. Lack cf vmter hcs proved a hendicap to complctely efficient
cperaticn. Unskilled personnel prosent ancther doterrent to capacity scrvice.
Dry Clecning service is nor: boing cffered contrecter personncl present cn the
island. The plants cre currontly cwaiting shipnent of spare perts fron Manila
and the Zcnc of thc Intericr.
3. GRAVES REGISTR.TION (583rd QM Grcvos Rogistrction Cc)
c. On the 5th of Lucust tho Ccncontration tean was sont to Sanani Shina
to expeditc tho concentration cf 813 ronnins of World War II dcad. Those renains
wore esccrted tc thc Island Conrnnd Cenetery for re-intorment and the concentration
of thesc roncins fiir cut-lying ceneteries hcs ncw beon conplotod vith c total
of 1,215 rencins n intorrod.
4

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.96)
IV. PRESENT ACTIVITIES (Continued)
b. Search cnd Recovory Operctions are being ccrried cn by Officers placed
on Special Duty by tho 5Clst QM Grcup cnd Officors cttached tc the Graves
Registration Sorvice. Areas serrchol s shcim cn the sonrch crec nap cre
number 64, 67, 68 cnd 69 1caving 65 cnd 66 roncining. This operctions has been
greatly henpored cn Okinawa proper duc tc tho fr.ct thct cortcin plccos such as
Chocolatc Drop hill and Sugar Lcaf hill have nct beon de-ninod, naking it
inpossible fcr ecarch cnd recovory cper: ticns tc bo pursued in theso sectors.
c. Identificaticn cf bodics is carried cn daily in attempts to
idcntify pcsitivcly cny unknorm decd.
d. During the ncnth of Septenber the Service handled the prepcrction
and shipnent of nino curront dead ind thrce Allicd dcad to the Zne cf Interior
and/cr such plrces ns designcted by next (f kin. Twolve funeral services
vere hcld.
4. HOUSE-KEEPING UNITS
c. Daily cdrinistrative functions cre being perfcrned by the group
ndquarters for the units assigmed to the group including ness, supply, hcusing,
persennel cdninistraticn, cnintenonce cf recerds cnd the ncrmal procodures of
cny reginental or group headquarters.
V. FUTURE PLANS
1. RYKOM QUARTERNASTER DEPOT
a. All Depot activitics cxcept bulk potrcleum strrare cnd issues will be
progressively neved to the nain Depot at Tcngen. Thc Sobo Sub-Depct will be
closcd vithin six (6) wecks and cther censclidntion shculd bo conpleted within
six (6) months.
2. CUARTERNASTER SERVICE DIVISION
a. The continu.ticn (f the prcscnt nissicn is planned with enphasis on
creased efficiency and ncre rcpid and constently inpreving service.
b. Increascd Laundry and Dry Clcaning service vill be cffercd as technical
difficultics cre sclved. Efforts to sclve the vr ter shcrtage cre being made.
c. The coffcc recsting plant will begin distributing its product
as socn cs practicable.
d. The prcpcsod pernenont bcsc bakery is cxpected to be conpleted by
10 Noverber 1947.
3. GR VES REGISTRLTION SERVICE
a. Frcrrems previcusly cutlined in this report will be continued.
b. Thc : t. identificction progran to establish identity of unknowm
rennins will re contiic nd intonsified.
5

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.94)
V. FUTURE TLANS (Ccntinucd)
c. A nauscloun vill bc estrbii hed tc reccivo tho rorr.ins takon fron
conotories on Okincvc and awciting shipnent tc designatcd pcints.
d. It is undorstrcd that the rencins cf all crld Wcr II dcad ncv
intcrred cn Okinave vill be concentra.ted tc scne pcint dosignated by the
Ccnnanding Officer, Anericen Graves Registration Scrvicc, Far Eastern Connand.
c. Scarch nd Reccvery aetivitics in search arecs 65 cnd 66 will bo
undert ken by a Search and Recevery tuan cbeard the F.S. boat assigned to
this hecdquarters.
FOR TIIE COMMUNDING OFFICER:
DauglasL Behenna
DOUGLAS L. BEHENNA
1st Lt., CiC
Assistant Adjutrnt
6

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.99)
HEADQUARTERS
SIGNAL TROOPS
RYUKYUS COMMAND
APO 331
10 October 1947
C URRENT REPORT OF SIGNAL SERVICE (VIP)
I. COMMAND
1. The SIGNAL SERVICE is conmanded by Lt Colonel Samuel G. Ashdown,
Sig C, who assumed his position on 21 July 1947.
2. The SIGNAL SERVICE is comprised of the following subordinate units:
(u) 11th Signal Service Eattalion, APO 331.
(b)
547th Signal Base Depot Co (PS), AP0 331-2.
(c)
532nd Signal Hvy Const P1t (PS), APO 331-2.
(a)
232nd Signal Radar Maint Unit, AP0 331-2.
(e)
8th Signal Radar Maint Unit, APO 331-2.
(f)
RYKOM Signal Depot, APO 331-2.
(g)
RYKOM Ionospher6 Observing Tcam, APO 331.
3. The 547th Signal Base Depot Co (PS), APO 331-2, organized and estab
lished at the Machinato Area, 12 August 1947. Coordination is thoroughly
exerciscd bctween the existing 532nd Signal Hvy Const P1t (PS), and 547th
Signel Base Depot Co (PS), for better accomplishment of missions. During
the first weck of September thc llth Signal Scrvice Battalion was reorganized
to form a Hq & Hq Company and seven (7) outlaying detachments of Hq & Hq
company.
II. MISSION
1. The Mission of the Signal Corps Troops on Okinawa is as follows:
a. Supply Signal equipment to units remaininc on Okinawa.
b. hcceive and classify cquipment from inactivated units.
c. Mark, segregate and dcclare surplus property to forèign
Liquidation Commisaion.
d. Assemble, book and outload signal supplics for return to
the United States or other bases.
III. FUNCTIONS OF SUBORDINATE UNITS
1. The assigned strength of the llth Signal Service Battalion on 1
September 1947 was two hundred twenty six (226) enlisted men, eighteen (18)
officers and two (2) Warrant Officers.

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.97)
CURRENT REPOIT OF SIGNAL SERVICE (VIP) (Cont'd)
III. FUNCTIONS OF SUBORDINATE UNITS
2. The Sig Sv Det (A) of Hq & Hq Co., located at Naha, Okinawa, operates
and maintaines the Naha Telephone Exchange. Sig Sv Det (B) of Hq & Hq Co., 1o-
cated in the Hq RYKOM area operates the RYKOM Signal Center. Si: Sv Det (C)
of Hq & Hq Co., located north-east of Hq kYKOM, is responsible for the observing,
analyzing, and computing of 1onospheric data 24 hours per day: Sig Sv Det (D)
of Hq & Hq Co., located at Deregawa, Okinawa operates the army transmitters lo-
cated at the station. Sig Sv Det (E) of Hq & Hq Co., at Tengan, Okinawa operates
and mmintaines the Tengan Telephone Exchange. Si: Sv Det (F), located at Buck-
nerville, Okinawa, operates the Bucknervillc Telephone Exchange. Sig Sv Det (M)
r Hq & Hq Co., located at Machinato, Okinawa.is responsible for the operation
of tho RYKOm Sinal Depot.
3. Hq & Hq Co llth Si,nal Servicc Battalion cperates the Okinawa and Awase
Telephone Exchanges, telctype scrvice, installcr repairman tcen and battalion
administration. Twenty three (23) cnlisted men were transferred from outlaying
detachments to hq & Hq Co to fill vacanoies in opcratin the aforementioned ins-
tallations and to formulate tho installer repairman team.
4. Tho 532nd Sinal Hvy Const P1t (PS), APO 331-2, 1rcated at Machinato,
Okinawa is working with the ilth Si: Sv Dn pole line construction teem on tele-
phone comnunication. This unit also has nine (9) men assigned to the Mechinato
telephone exchange as switchboard opcrators.
5. The 547th Signal Base Dcpot Co (PS), APO 331-2, 1ocated at Machinato,
Okinawa, arrived on Okinawa 15 Septenber 1947 to pcrforn duties in the RYKOM
gnal Depot.
6. The cnlisted men of the 232nd Signal Racer Maint Unit, AP0 331-2 wore
transferred to tho 11th Signal Scrvice Battalion, AP0 331, 26 Soptenber 1947
leaving this unit inoperativc.
7. The 8th Signal Iadar Maintonance Unit, AP0 331-2 lost its enlisted
personnel 26 Septembcr 1947 when thc men werc transferred to the 11th Sigal
Service Battalion, APO 331 leaving the unit inoperative.
8. Two (2) Officers were transferred fron the llth Signal Service Batta-
lion and one (1) Officer joined. Three (3) enlisted men were transferred to ZI
for reassignnent and nine (9) cnlisted nen joined this orcanization bringing the
aasigned strength, as of 30 Scp 47, to two hundred thirty two (232) enlisted men,
nineteen (19) Officers and two (2) Warrant Officers.
- 2 -

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.96)
IV. PRESENT ACTIVITIES
A. Signrl Dopot
1. During the month of Septamber the RYKOM Signel Depot,
which operates a Repair Shop in addition to running the Depot itself,
perfords third and fourth echelon maintenence on mumbrous Sigml items
vhich vere turned in for repair by using orgcnizetions, and also on
unsorvicecble items vhch ere indopot stock.
2. Personnel in the repcir shop number twenty-five, of which
seven nre Okinavan repctrmen, threc ore Americen Civil Service workers,
ten cre Anericcn Soldiers, four are Philippine Scouts and there is one
Officer in Charge.
3. The total inventory of depot stock is 23, 101 M/8, amounting to
$17,325,750.00. Of this amount 3546 M/T is Closs "C" property , and
468 1/T is declrred surplus propebty.
4. To dote 22,214 /T of surplus hes been declarcd, of vhich
22,138 has been sold cnd delivered. There is opproximetcly 400 1/T
of surplus roncining to be declered.
5. 15,327 :1/T of excess property hes been shipped to the Zone of
the Interior fror the RYKO11 Sirne1 Depot to detc, end 1,807 11/T hts been
shipped to other Brses ond Conu nds. ht the present time there is no
property bypted for shipmont to the U. S. or to other bases cnd commen's.
6. Of the covercd storcge spaee in the depot, hich totals 52,0
squaro fect, (of vhich 25,000 is avrilcble for ster ge,) 25,000 sq ft.
is owwupicd. 264, c squcre fect of open storage is oucupied in both the
Pole and Coble Yard at Kedenn cnd thc Depot et Mchineto, leaving a total
of 296,000 squaro foet vaocnt. 20,000 squcre fect of arcc :s occupied by
non-usable supplies, of vhich 3,000 is surplue equipment, and 17,000 is
occupiod by cxcess equipment. At the present time there is no area under
construction.
7. Personnel in tho Depot totel 231. Of thosc, 57 ere Amerieen
ilitery Personnel, 35 aro Philippine Scouts, 9 erc Americen Civil
Sorvioo Employees, 3 cre Philippine Netioncls, and 127 ere Okimwams.
B. OPERATIONS
1. INSTALLE. AND IEPAIR: During the month of September
1947, a conploto nev systen  es initicted by Signel Operctions to insure
more efficicnt tolephonc service on Okinewe. In the pest, ecch exchange
hod one or nore I & R terns vorking directly from that exchange. On 28
Septomber 47, cll I & R t cns wero consolidcted under one unit vorking in
tocms cnd rxceiving thèir job cssignments dircctly fron Signal Operation
Herdquarters. This I & R unit consists of four teams and its mission is
to provido scrvico for the 932 phonee in cight exchcnges for which it is
r sponsible for inside plent mintenence. Despitc the shartege of
personnel ond the development of severcl emergencies dur to bad ocble,
the munber of loccls in trouble at the end of the month shoved c sherp
decrecse ovor the previuus month.
-3-

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.96)
CURJENT REPORT OF SIGNAL SELVICE (VIP) (CcnT'd)
IV.
2. SIGNAL SUPPLY AID IEPAIh: A consolidatod Signal Supply and Repair
Shop has boen installed in quonset #145 at Sinal Headquarters. This section
will bc responsible f r thc requisition and distribution of all Signl Supplies
as well as fer the repair cf all light Signal equipment such as telephone and
teletype mchincs, ctc.
3. POLE LINE CONST.UCTIONe During the month of September the pole line
construction teams have worked cn Catenary spans in the Sukiran aren on Cable
170. Work Ordcr #C-744-47 authorized this work.. The ccnstruction of Aerial
cable, 27 qd. J.P., fron Naha to 53rd Port Headquarters was also completed du-
ring this period.
4. CIDLE SPLICEIS: Thc aablc splidng toans have worked on misdellaneous
repair of the island cablc systen durin: the nonth.
V. FUTUE PLANS
1. INSTALLEh & IEPAI: Under the present syston, the I & I teans can be
expocted tc grcatly reduce and brin: under control the local troubles not due
tc bad cables. Several key cfficcrs and cnlisted men will bc lost during the
nenth but other perscnncl whc will bc brought in to fill such vacancies should
have sufficient training by that tine to carry on thc operaticns without a
letdown in efficiency.
2. Pole line construction will work on thc local distributicn to Camp Kue
during the month of Octeber. Work Ordcr #C-771-47 authorizes this construotion.
Lecnl distribution in the Awass Dependcnts Hcuaing rea will also be repaired
under thc nuthorization of work Order C-739-47.
3. The cablc splicing teans will continuc thc splicing of miscellaneous
cables in the island ccnmunication system.
FOF THE COMILNDING OFFICEI:
L2CD
DAVID S IEYNOLDS
1st Lt,S
Sig C
Ad jutant

=== Page 153 === (confidence 1.00)
REPORT
HEADQUARTERS
TRANSPORTATION
SERVICE
SEPTEMBER 1947

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.92)
TRAVSPORTATIOF SIRVI CA
APO 331-9
7 October 1947
C RRI T RIPORT OF TRA S-ORT IIOF SRVI OD (VIP)
7.47
I. CO AD
1. The TRa SPORTATION SRVC: i: commanded by Colonel Robert
L. allen, Jr., 20, who assumed nis position on 27 August 1946.
?. The TRaSPORTs.TIOF SRVIC is commr!ed of the followim
suboriinate units.
Hear uarters and Headnuarters Company 6let
Transportation Service Group (PS)
**b.
5,7ta Transportstion Port arine Maintenance
Detacnment
c.
65tn Transportetion Harbor Craft Comnany (PS)
。
Headuarters and Headcuarters Detachment 66th
Transportetion Truck Battalion, obile (PS)
***(1) 38r: Trans ortation Truck Company
*() 3rd Transportstion Truck Comoany (Hvy)
**(3) 2nd Trans ortetion Truck Company
***(4) 574th Transportstion Truck Company (Hvy)
***(5) 64tn Transportrtion Truck Company
***(6) 6o4th Transportetion Port Company
***(7) 147th Tranevort=tion Port Company
***(8) 145tn Transportetion Port Company
**(9) ?7t y Band
****e. (1) Co a Ryuis (en Truck Battalion (Prov)
(o) Co B R ukuan Truck Battalion (Prov)
(3) Co C Ruiguan Truck Battalion (Prov)
(4) Co D Ryuyuan Truck Battalion (Prov)
(5) o E Ru yuan Truck Battalion Hvy (Prov)
3. The 507t.r Transpcrtation Pot Harine Heintenance Seotion:
was redasignated O7in Traneportation Port arine eintenancs
Dotachnent oy Perasrepn 1, Section II, General Ormer No. 105, Hq.
Pail: com, APO 707, dated 6 Sete.1ber 1947.
II. ISION
4. The mission of the Traneportation Service, Ryukyue Commend,
is to suparvise, sdminister, coordinste, and onerate such trans-
portstion facili ties of nienwaye, and water that are made availabas
for the mowement of mupplies, ecuipnent, and peresonnel, to and from
the Rucyua Air traneportation is often utilised for priority mow
 P   Tk C

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.91)
ment of personnel and suppl es. Inie nead uartere
pur ose of coordinstin all sir movements of peronmel s
involvint the Transportetion Corps.
a. The di ecnergin an outlosrin of vessel mich asri
depert at the port of ane, en whon o necessity, the utilisatiom.
for the sane purhose, oi the ie: et inite Beach, Buckmer Bay,
hich has been released b' tno Navy ane is now operated by the 
ort tion Service.
b. A mission assuned by the Trens ortetion Service ie the
trainin o? Jetive civilian lavor to jobe neceseary for Port
operstions, due to the lack of sufficient soldier peronnel.
c. The eibaridne end debarking o mili tary enr oi vilen per
sonnel errivin snc d, srtin. tie Ryukyus.
5. To eccomplian its mission tne Transportetion Service
operates and admini sters the Port of Jana, and also utilises other
loc tions, such as Vai te Ber in and other discnarge nointe in the
R'u us neceesar to expedite tno novenent o? cargo and personnel.
III. FUNCTIONS OF SUBORDINATE UFITS
6. The Hea uarters Coa eny Glst Trensnortetion Service Group
(PS) povides the enlister pereonne? for clericel work, and other
necessary edministrativa functions st Hearsuarters, Traneportation
Service (Ho, 61st Tranaportetion Servi ce Group (ps) ), as mekl as,
furnislint aritional snc lity  usras st the Port wmen meeded.
7. The o5tn Transpc tatien Harbor Craft and the 307th Tren-
portation Port rino sintenance Detecanent operate, maintain, nd
suvervise t.ic use or all snall narior creft. Taese smell praft a
usoc for inter-islend t:sin ortation. Tugs opevated and mmtntoimed
by these unita are ised to bertn inco nint vessels at the niore.
also  or E idanco on dmparture of such vessele. The 65th Harbor Oraft
supply the nucessery tuards for Port socurit- at Berthe, open stow-
ato crea fnd wherover cargo and/or bageage is stower. The 507th
aloo vai or is inor revsir work on ocern eoint veszal, in :the Rort
when naceesery.
8. The 66th Transportation Trucs Battalion aeinteins. oper-
stes, ald administere control over u ite asvitned tpereto for. xer-
niway transportetion and stevedorin operetione et thn piere at
Fai an ite Beach.
e. The 583r and nd Tranamortetion Truck Com enies Brd
portation. Trucr Company (Hvy). ani tne 574tn and 64th Traneporsakion
Truck Compenies sup ly te needes veniclee end dat vere for delmr-

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.90)
ing tin di eanarged cargo from tae Port to varie
throu mout the islen". The eforepentioner Truck
ick up fro the de ae ceigo to be delivered to sho
outloading.
b. Tae 143tn, 147ta, and s24tn Port Comanies furn eh.
availa.le, such steverores fnd techn'ciens as ere needed for tho
loa in and diacn re of cego fron vessele end assiet in the
ppii nd msintenance o: erui nent necessars for port oporatione.
c. Tne ortn army Band na the obvious funotion of furniehi
o.itertaini.e s'c for tne enbecn an debardng pereonnel at
tho Port, and, when called upon, for the ceremaies that ooour 
virious occesione A tnin thi a connend.
IV. RS.  VI IS
9. For the montn of Sest aber appro1tely 3.96 long
tons e usline 61,Ol4 neagurewent tons were discharged and about
713 lon tons enuslint 3,375 meas:renent tons were outloaded t the
Port. During tais saie eriod t.o Transportetion Sarvico elo
nandle tie dabaridn o: 1653 pereons and the en arking of 1441
pereons. all neces ery aiministrstive functions pertinent to the
e aberne an eber int o personnel was conducted b the Troop
Rovem at Section.
10. Operations, are presently ha mered by the lack of teche
trrinins oi replacenents for readjusted peronnel end are further
in:erai b: the sb ence o su.icient spare parts for neintenance and
repair of ecuiment.
V. TUR PS
ll. À continuetion o the present adi ssion with omohasie on
tin e  cient and axpei! tious disclarging and outloaning of cargo
end tie emberidn eni deberine of pe. sonnel.
12. Jontinous trsinin o nstive civilien leborere as truck
"rivers, steve ores, maintenenca men, clerical ansietents, en? other
routine jobs nocessary for tae operation of the Port.
Richiend s. utotondo
RIC. ARD . ROTOWDD
1st Lt
LMEND:
Hietorical Recorde Offio
* Filipino Personnel
** nite Personnel
*** Fegro Personnel
**** Oinawen Personnel
-3-

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.98)
STATUS OF ARMY SURPLUS PROPERTY 30 SEPT 1947
Army Surplus Made Available to Bosey
UNIT
I/T
VI
VALLE
Chemical
1,071
4,879
1,023,236
Medical
2,076
6,158
2,788,053
Signal
7,819
22,138
11,776,519
Quartermaster
13,833
35,000
7,277,423
T/0
6
10
7,200
Oranance
33,085
181,879
31,277,395
Engineer
20,373
64,768
11,220,896
TOTAL.
..78,267 L/T
314,832 /T
$65,281,722
Army Surplus  be Declared and Made Available to Bosey
L/T
W/T
VALUE
Chemical
36
86
27,000
Medical
0
0
0
Signal
200
400
300,000
T/C
0
0
0
Qua'termaster
175
100
106,000
Ordnance
11,206
35,202
13,447,000
Engineer
16,956
24,726
6,496,000
TOTAL. .
...28,573 L/T
60,514 /T
20,376,000
Surplus on which Right to Posession has passed to Bosey
L/T
1/T
VALUE
Chemical
1,071
4,879
1,023,236
Medical
2,076
6,158
2,788,053
Signal
7,819
22,138
11,776,519
T/C
6
10
7,200
Quartermaster
13,783
34,899
7,160,111
Ordnance
29,946
162,403
28,873,478
Engineer
14,993
50,949
8,123,665
TOTAL.
. .69,694 L/T
281,436 /T
59,752,262
Army Surplus Outloaded by Bosey
141,562

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.95)
THE
BATTLE
OF
OKINAWA
Written hy S/Sgt Howard R. Goodhew
Edited by Tec 4 Paul J. Deutschmann
Published by I & 3 Section, Egs.
62d General Depot, 12 Feb 1946.
Reprodaced at Bc MXMM. APO:331, 3 0teber 1947.
M.MOG.

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.94)
ICEBER
OPERATION
1.
Maeda Escarpment ("Skyview Hackeaw Ridge)
2.
"Item" Pocket
56
Kakaru Ridge
Chocolate Drop Hill
Conical Hill
Sugar Loaf Hill
Chinen-Mura Peninsula
8.
Oroku Peninsula (Naha Airfield)
9.
Yaeju-Drake Escarpment
10.
Buckner Memorial
11.
32d Jap Army Headquarters
SeCURED
12.
Tenth Army Headquarters
5MAY45
13.
Iegusugu-Yama
D
Tenth Army (Buckner)
XXIV Army Corp= (Hodge)
7th Infantry Div.
27th Infantry Div.
77th Infantry Div.
96th Infantry Div.
III Marine Amphibious Corps (Geiger)
lst Marine Div.
2nd Karine Div.
Yontan
6th Marine Div.
xKadenn
12
Makagusaku Castle
2
Buckner Bay
Machinago
6x
Naha
SLCURCO
N
Itoman
9
11
L10S

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.96)
OPERATION ICDERO" AND THE ASL OF
s/agt Howard Goodhow
Al thoush Olinawe was a word added to the vocabulary of the mes o the
street only after the Easter invasion of that island, the actual military
operations against the enemy there were begun over six months befere Amerleem
troops stormed ashore. It was on 10 October 1g44 that carrier based planes
staged a severe bombing raid on the island, completely demolishing the ege-
old city of Neha and other vital military installations, and causing the
Jepaneso army; which had only arrived in force in June of that year, to start
the elaborate cave fortifications which proved so offective in the campai
to follow.
However, more important than the damage inflicted were the reconnals-
sance photographs made at the same time which provided the essential details
for preinvasion planning by the Tenth Army.
TENTH ARMY ACTIVATED AT FORT 'SAM!
Originally activated at Tort Sam Houston. Texas, the Tenth Army was com
manded by Lt General Simon Bolivar Buckmer, re-conqueror of the Aleutians.
From "Tort. Sam" it moved to Oahu, T. H., where it began the planning of oper
ation "Causeway", the invasion of Tormosa. However, it was decided to by
pass this island in favor of Okinawa.. Oahu was an ideel spot for the pre
paration of the new attack, since immense supplies wero on hand and many per-
sonnel skilled in planning invasions wero already stationed there.
In addition, many formor Okinewans were living in Hawail as naturalised
citizens of the United States. Okinawa, on the other hand, was the only is
land large amough to support the 26 projected airfiolds for the bombing of
Japan proper with land-based planos, and at the same time provide room for a
taging area for the vast number of troops and supplios required to sepport
the ultimato invasion of Japan.
OPERATION 'ICEBERG' CONCEIVED
With the information and experience gained in planning the inyasion of
Formosa. the Tenth Army wns ready. for oporation "Iceberg" the assault upon
Okinawa.
Many plans for new equipment, such as recoilless cannon, "leaflet tanks",
M-26 General Perahing tanks and the new M-15 mobile 155 mm gun carriages had
to be shelved in favor of the top priority of the European Theater of Oper
ations. which was at that time in its most critical stago.
However, one weapon which up to that time had not been used extensively
by the ground forces in the Pacific was given to the Tenth Army. This was
the than"top secret" vT radio operated fuze which hnd aided in winning the
"Battle of the Bulge" in Germany and had permittod our floet to sail under
tho very noses-of the Japenese in the Pacific. Other now piecee of ordnance
wore devised, espedially for-tank warfare.
L' DAY DRAWB NEAR
As "L" day drew near, troops were staged on Oaku and in the Philippines.
To prepare for this combined oporation, navy, army and marine officers and
men worked side by side and aoross from one another at tho same desks. Most
of those working on the operation did not know what island or what sget was
to be the target since "Iceberg" was a code name idontifiod with Okineme only
to th top commanders and the few enlisted personnol whio were sworn to seor
ocy in the security rooms at Tenth Army headquarters.
0.1

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.98)
(Operation "Iceberg" and the Battle ef Okineme, eentfa)
In the first part of March, the advance parties from Teath Aray assemtaea
on the parade ground of the Headquarters quadrangle at Schofield Barracks.
Those who were to follow a week or so later cheered them as they left for
operation "Iceberg." an unknown destination which would be given to the oaly
after they had left all friendly land and were in the "security safety" of
Jap-infested waters.
TOKYO ROSE GUESSES
Japan hazarded her guess at the probable destination of the troop laden
convoys which the enemy now knew were unaerwey. Through the Tokyo Rose pro-
gram she "informed" the Tenth Army men that they were sailing to their "death"
to invade the first home island of the Japanese Impire - Okinawa. On 17 March
1945, the initial pre-invasion tactics began with repeated air strikes on
Okinawa by the famed Task Force 58, which only shortly beforo had been causing
the Japanese homeland no end of trouble. The men laughed as their own ships
were "sunk" and "re-sunk" over the Japanese propaganda programs, but began
to consider seriously tho job phead as some of our naval losses were confirmed
and the call to battle stations was sounded more frequently in the convoy.
SURFAC BOMBARDMENTS BEG IN
Thon on 25 March 1945 the initial surface bombardmente of Okitawa were
begun by Task Torce 54. ▲ day later landings were made on Kerame Retto by
units of the 77th Infantry Division. That group of islands southwest of
Okinawa was secured by 29 March. providing a safe passage for the major in-
vasion fleet which passed in the channel between them and the larger island.
At the same time, daring units of the Navy began underwater reconnais
sance of the two invasion points - the southeastern Okinawa beaches and the
Hagushi shoreline near Kadena and Yontan airfields, which had already been
put out of commission by the preliminary bombardments. The Navy units came
to the shores and removed underwater obstacles and mines which had been
cleverly planted to hamper the invasion of the coral reefed island - a base
large enough to accommodate the entire Japanese Navy in its pre-war maneuvers.
FEINT ATTACK MADE IN SOUTHEAST
Finally, on Easter Morning, 1 April 1945, the Japanese observed the firet
landing attempts on Okinawa as the 2nd Marine Division, with attached Army
troops, began a feint attack on the southeast coast to draw the enemy's at-
tentton from the main landing which began at 0830 on the Hagushi beaches..
The 7th and 96th Army Divisions and the 1st and 6th Marine Divisions
found comparatively slight resistance to their landings at Hagushi. Unper-
turbed Okinawa farmers continued to plow their fields as these strangers
streamed ashore.
In one day the beachhoad was established with the capture of both
Kadena and Yontan airfields. By 2 April the 7th Army Division had completely
severed the island in a drive to the west coast. By 5 April Phase I of the
campaign was completed. The XIv Army Corps. under command of May General
John R Hodge (now Lt Gen), formed a battle line to the south. while the III
Amphibious Marine Corps under Lt General Gaiger began its push to the north-
ern tip of the island.
PREPARED DEFENSES RLACHED IN SOUTH
On the southern army front scattered Japanese resistance gave may until
army units reeched the first prepered defense area on the approaches to the
Machinato line, running from the north end of Machinato airstrip to the north
end of Yonabaru airstrip. and including Kakasu and Skyview (Hacksaw) ridges.
Here, on 7 April, the 96th "Deadeye" Division engaged in the fiercest artil-
lery duel of Pecific warfare with the Japanese 32nd Army.
-2-

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.97)
(Operation "Iceberg" and the mattle of Okinawe. cont'd)
On the northern front moderate opposition wde encbuntered'by the merines.
and the northern point of the 60-mile island (some 40 miles from the favmsion
boaches), was reached and secured by 5 May, without any significant battles.
Meanwhile, on 16 April, the 77th Army "Statue of Liberty" Divieion Had
begun working on Phase II of the campaim, striking the tiny Jap eirbase of
Ie Shima. Casualties were heavy from both direct Japanese fire and a lerge
number of mines which hed been oleverly planted on the island. Reminiscent
of earlier-mon Iwo Jima in size and topography, Ie Shima was dominated by
Iegusugu-Yama, the only promontory on the otherwise levol, dirfield-covered
island.
The battle revolved around the capture of this peak, and within five days
it was secured. Ie Shima is now world-famed, not for the battle, but as the
final resting place of the GI's favorite correspondent, Ernie Pyle, and as
the historic airstrip on which the Japanese peace envoy laden planes landed
enroute to Manila.
It was of immediate importance to those fighting on bkinawa too, because
it provided an advance base for the interception of Japanese airoraft which were
taking a terrific toll of our invasion fleet. The Jap attacks also were reducing
the vital flow of supplies to the beaches at night, by causing as many as 12 or
15 blackout air alerts an evening.
96TH, 27TH HELD UP AT MACHINATO
On the south front the 96th and 27th Divieions' advance was still held up
at the Machinato line. At night the battle field was contimuously lit with navy
tar shells, while the more deadly 12 and 16-inch navy shells arohed across the
sky into the Japanese dofenses. Tanks were brought into play but were alarm-
ingly decommissioned by the sting of Jap 47mm antitank guns, which seemed to be
firing out of the solid coral hills.. Disabled tanks were completely demolished
by Jap "satchel charges" dropped inside the turrets at night.
On 24 April a 27th Division combat team finally broke through the cave
fortifications of Kakaru ridge and "Item pocket," on the Jap left flank, and
encircled Skyfiew ridge. Then the 77th Division from Ie Shima came into line,
replacing the 96th which had suffered more than 50 per cent casualties in the
battle.
The enemy troops still in the Hacksaw ridges fortifications were finally
eradicated with burning gasoline, flame throwers and a final asseult by the 77th
Division from the crest of the hill with cargo nets and hand grenades in some
of the fiercest hand-to-hand battles of the campaign.
JAPS TINALLY RETREAT
Finally, the main element of the Japanese force retreated, only slightly
further south, to the most formidable defenses of the campaign, the Mahe-Shuri
Yonabaru line, lanked by Conical hill on the Jap right and Sugar Loaf hill on
the left. The Japs counter-attacked fiercely at night with landings above
Yonabaru and at Machinato in small ten-man boats, and with infiltrations of
hundreds of troops through the very center of our lines.
The infiltrations resulted in the enemy reocoupying a strong point alpost
two miles behind the line for over three days. Other units of the Jap spesial
attack corps landed on Yontan in planes and succeeded in wrecking. havoe on the
newly repaired airstrip before their suicide mission was liquidated. A new Jap
defense weapongalso came into play at buri -- the "spigot mortar." mhich hurled
a 38-pound projeetile whiacling through the air head over heals. Bowever, it
1.

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.97)
(Operation "Icoberg" and the Btt of Okinewai Oantra)
*PISTOL PETE' HITS AINFIELDS
Coupled with these attacks came the regular 0200 air raids on Kedeme ané
Yontan and the bombardment of the frelds by a Jap 15smm gun some 10 milee
distant in the Maha areb. "pistel Pete," as the sun was nidknemed, was moze
difficult to eliminate than the 'air raids. It was moved on rails from ome
cave position to another and fired only 10 or 12 rounds .before returning to
camouflage ecurity.
At this time the line contained three civisions. The g6th replaced.the
7th on the east, and the 27th took the west flank, and the 77th was in the center.
On 5 May, the III "Phib" corps was called in to relieve the 27th, which took
up the security mission in the northern part of the isle. On 7 May for the
first time, two corps assaulted the Japanese Shuri line. On 13 May the "dead-
eyes" captured strategic Conical hill to begin the encirclement of shtri from
the south and east, along with units of the 7th which were returning to the liaes
MARINES TAKE SUGAR LOAF, NAHA
On the right flank the marines fought their first major battle of the
campaign with the capture of Sugar Loaf hill and the heavily mined city of
Naha. Then the lst Marine Division shot a spearhead into Shuri from Mahe and
the 77th Army Division, pushing on through such Jap defenses as Chocolate Drop
hill, hit Shuri from the north. From the south, the 7th, now back in line,
and the 96th, increased the pressure of the enciroling movement and on 31 May
Shuri fell to the victorious Tenth Army.
Meantime, the rainy season on Okinawa had set in, and like the mud, the
Japanese army oozed southward, never establishing a main line of defense. We
pushed rapidly onward and the 7th Division reached the southeast coast of the
Chinen-Mura peninsula on 3 June. On the west coast the 6th Marine Division
climaxed an amphibious lanaing from Naha Bay on the Oroku peninsula on 4 June
with the capture of Naha airfield two days later. The peninsula was secured
on the l3th when the lst and 2nd Marine Divisions wiped out last enemy resistance
in the Naha area with the annihilation of a strong pocket of crack Jap naval
troops in the southern outskirts of Naha Town.
JAPS RETREAT TO LAST LINE
The 96th and 7th Army Divisions elong with the 6th Marine Division contimuqa
their push until finally the Jap line held at their last strongpoint, YaefuDake
escarpment, running east from Itoman. Increasing mortar supporting fire was
needed and our dangerously low supplies had to be augmonted by air freight,
since sbveral vital ammunition ships had fallen prey to the deadly Baka bomb
piloted by the suicidal Jap Kamikaze corps.
Army and navy guns shelled the last stronghold and Marine planes dropped
makeshift "napalm" bombs, made with auxiliary airplane gas tanke filled with
flame-thrower fluid and ignited with an impact fuse. Five handred foot hoses
were attached to flame-throwing tanks and the cliff defenses were saturated
with gasoline which was touched •ff with dynamite charges to clean the Japs
from this last stronghold.
GENERAL BUCKNER KILLED
On 18 June 1945. the Tenth Army was shocked by the death of its commander.
General Buckmer, who was killed as he viewed the battle from an observation
point on the front lines. Had he Tived but three days longer, he mould have
seen the Japs surrendering at the rate of 2,000 desly and the sesuring of the
island 2l daser with the flag raising ceremony et tetith Army headquartere et
which Gensral Geiger of the marines officiated.
一4

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.98)
(Operation "Iceberg" and the Battle of Okiname, Cont'a)
Rumors of a purported large-scale Japanese re-invasion of Okineme 
Commander-in-Chief of Okinawa troops, didn't believe it. He and his ehief of
staff committed hari-kari, leaving behind his personal cook to'relate the
lurid story of the traditional ceremony and to reveal the Babulous Jap head
quarters stronghold and the bodies of the vanquiahed warlords.
GENERAL STILLWELL TAKES COMMAND
On 23 June, General Stillwell took command of the Tenth Army, vacating
his position as Chief of Army Ground Torces. Several other phases of the
campaign were cancelled, and other malle? islands, such as Iheya Shime.
Kume Shima and Aguni Shima were taken without event by reconnaissance units.
As a security measure a final meticulous sweep of the island was mede, this
time from south to north. Caves were' sealed with bulldosers and blasting
charges, and isolated snipers eliminated.
slight opposition was encountered in the area south of Kadena, but many
isolated groups of Jap fanatics held out for months in northern Okinawa.
RYUKYUS SURRENDER COMPLETED
On 10 September 1945, surrender of the Ryukyus was completed on the same
spot at Tenth Army Headquarters on which the flag was first raised upon seour-
ing the island. The abandonment of the other phases proved a wise move, since
the ememy did not even have a single plane or ship with which to bring its
generals to the surrender ceromonies from such cave-entrenched major islands
as Miyako, Okino and Amami; their airfields were in such a shambles that no
planes could use them.
The final ceremony was simple and informal and typical of the way General
Stillwell got things done. To start it off with a bang and a touch of humor.
the band struck up "The Old Grey Mare", following with the GIs' favorite,
"Tho Beer Barrel Polka." After about 20 minutes of music the Japanese
military representatives walked out to take their places, standing in back of
the surrender table.
On their left was a platoon honor guard of precision marines: at their
left rear a platoon of kheki clad Army infantrymen; in front of them a double
row of U.s. Army and Navy genaral officers. The area was surrounded with 25
spanking new General Pershing tanks, and 15 or more 155mm mobile gun carriages.
all with their open barrels pointed down the Japs throats.
The witnesses to the ceremony were a crowd of camere-clicking GIs and
officers who perched themselves on every vantage point. Promptly at 1430
the General's flourishes were sounded, and General Stillwell, followed closely
by his Chief os Staff, General Merrill. strode out of his camouflaged head-
quarters quonset to take his place at attention in front of the table. It was
one of the few occasions on which the well liked general wore the four silver
stars of his rank, but he wore no other decorations. A few curt orders through
an interpreter, the Japs signed, then General Stillwell signed.
AERIAL PARADE ENDS CEREMONY
An aerial parade roared overhead, starting with the majestic B-29s at
high altitude and followed by other bombers anf fighters until the cooky little
Mustangs skimmed the flagpole. General Stillwell was heard to remark, as the
defeated Jape marched off "There go the warlords of the Pacific". as the
realisation of the complete victory brought jubiliation for the first time.
GIs, Generals and admirals mingled, shook hands and slapped backs.
一5一

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.96)
(Operation "Iceberg" and the Battle of Okinawa, Cont'd)
All that remained was to send out a task force to the remaining yekyes
islands to see that surrender terms were carried out. this was done a few
weeks later, On the return trip of the task force, a morld famed typhoon
hit these waters, and again Okinawa was in the news, a "last flash in the pan"
before the 1sland where 110,000 Japanese and 8.000 Americans were buried
slipped out of the public eye and bocame just another desolate Pacific out-
post under the Stars and Stripes.
一 The End -
76

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.94)
OKINAWA BACKGROUND INFORMATION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CHAPTER
SUBJECT
PAGE
I
Geography of the Ryukyus
1-4
II
Hi story of Okinawa
5 - 11
III
People of the Ryukyus
12 - 25
IV
Okinawan Tombs and Burial Customs
26 - 29
V
Government and Econemy of the Ryukyus 30 - 49
VI
Places of Intorest on Okinawa
50 - 54
(Information obtained from:
1. U. S. Navy Civil Affairs Handbook.
2. Compilations by U.S. Naval Military
Government Education Department.)
P

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.97)
OYINAWA BAKGROUND INFORMATION
CHAPTER I
GEOGRAPHY OF TIT RYUKYUS
If you are st tioned on Okinawa, look at your map
and you will see that ycu are betwcon 5000 and 6000
milos fron. San Francisco, depending on the route takon
by your shin. You are a Little less than 1000 air miles
fron Tokyo. You are oniy abcut 500 mil es from Shanghal.
Tho Rukyu Islands lio southwest of Japan proper,
north st of Formosa and the Philimpines, amd wost of
the Eunins. Thcre  re 140 islands in the chain which
extends 775 miics and scrcens the East China Soa from
the Nerth Prcifi: Occan. Go to Buckner Bay and look to
the enst and you will bo gizing upon the Pacific. Go to
Naha and look to tho west and ycur oyos will be rosting
upon the Ciinn ia.
Okinawa, certrl link in tho Ryut u group (also
krowm as tho Loocher roup or Nansoi Shoto), is tho most
importent of thc islands. It is approximately 67 milos
long and averago tir c to 10 milcs widc. Tho northern
two-thirds of the island is rugged torrain, having boen
formed . cclogically by the sinxing of mountains. Its
highest hills riso to 1500 or more feet. In many areas
tho tcrrain onds at tho coastlino in stoop cliffs.
Southern Ckinewa is lcss rough, consisting of rolling
hills broon occasionally by ravinos and valloys.
Tho Ryukyu Islands arc famcus -- and not favorably
so among thoir American visitors -- for their froquent
typhoons. From 12 to 45 typhcons affcct Okinawa anm-
ally. An avora of 3 to 6 of thesc can bo oxpocted
to cross diroctly over the island causing maximum damago.
May to October aro tho "typhocn months, " although thoy
have been rocordod during winter months as well. Tho
strongost wind on rocord at a formor Naha wonthor station
was l00 milcs por hour, although rontor velocitios have
boon recordod by U.S. Army instrumonts during tho prosont
occupation.
From Novombor through May or June, about 75 por
-1-

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.97)
cont of tho days aro cloudy. The woather clears con-
siderably during tho summor, howovor, with aahigh ratio
of sunshino.
Rainfall is hoavy in the Ryukyus. At Naha. tho
mocn anmual procipitation is 82.8 inches, with at loast
4 inchos falling in ovory month of tho ycar. Tho rain-
iost months aro Juno, July, and August.
Tomporatures in tho Ryukyus aro mild, duo to tho
influonco of tho Jupanoso current which flows north-
anstward among thesc 1slands and 1s from 5 to 15 dogroes
warmor than tho wators about it. Tho former woather
station at Iaha hnd rocordod a moan annual temporature of
72 dogrccs Fahronhoit, with 41 do roos tho lowost on
rocord and 96 doroos tho highost. Jamuary and Fobruary
arc tho coolost months and June to Soptom ber aro tho
hottost, tho temporaturo hovering around 81 dogrmes.
Tho typicel soil of tho Ryukyu Islands is licht clay
loam of a roddish color, overlying limostono. Thore aro
some aroas of whito clay and somo doposits of gravol.
The Naha- Shuri district of southorn O:inawa is covorod
with a stiff bluo or slat-colorod clay. not common elso-
whoro in tho islands. Tho stiffnoss of tho clay limits
its fortility.
A considcrablo mumber of mincrals aro found in tho
Ryukyus but phosphatos and coal aro the only onos with
deposits of sufficiont sizo to bo valuablo commorcially.
A small amount of coal has boen minod on Okinawa but
the largost deposits aro found in tho lowor Ryukyus.
Phosphatos, which constitutc tho most important minoral
rosourco of the islands, aro found principally in tho
Daito Shoto, a mall roup of islands oast of akinawa.
Othor mincrals which aro found on tho various islands of
tho Ryukyus tnclude argil, bauxito, coppor, gold, iron,
maganeso, potroloum, salt, somi-procious stonos inclu-
ding garnot and opidoto crystals, and aulphur.
Tho vogotation of tho Ryukyus is unumual in that it
shows a gradation from plants that aro typical of tho
tomporato zono to thoso that aro tropical. Tho tropioal
variotios of plants usunlly aro fond at low olovations
whorons tho subtropical or tomperato zono variotios aro
found in tho high and coolor aroas.
一2-

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.96)
Common varietics of vegotation to look for on
Okinawn includo bannnn trocs (largoly of tho fibor-leaf
type, usod by nativos in making cloth), bamboo, pino,
spruce, fir, juniper, oak, camphor, mangrove, palm,
banyan, poppers, cnctus, cycads, rhododendrons, nastur-
tium, asters, chrysanthomun, lilios, and forns.
Excopt for domosticntod horsos, dogs and cattlo tho
only largo mannnls in tho Ryukyus aro tho Japanoso doer,
which has boon importcd from Japan, and tho Ryukyu wild
pig which on somo islands is rcported in sufficiont
mbers to somctimos damago crops. Noithor is soon
ofton on Okinawn. Tho mongooso is common, having boon
brought in from India somo yonrs ago to combat snakos.
There nre a number of spocics of rats, mico, and bats.
throughout tho island. Four spocics of pit vipors arc
found, the two most camon being the habu and mamushi.
Although Amoricon invasion troops hnd oxpoctod many cae
sunltios fron snnko bitos, vory littlo troublo was
oncbuntcred throuthout tho entire campaign. Apparontly
the native anti-sunko cempuim of rocont years has boon
offcctive in controliiu ticir numbors on Okinawa.
Inscet: of tho Ryukyus are of tho variotios found
over the world, inclu ing nosquitoos, flios, lice, bed-
bugs, cockroachos, s dccrs, ants, scorpions, buttorflios,
fircflics, dragonflics, grasshoppors, locusts, and
bootlos. Mosquitoos aro found tho yoar around on Oinnwa
and caro must bo oxorcisod against becoming infoctod
with malaria. denguo fovor or filarinsis.
Birds abound in the islands. Among those well
Imown to Amcricans aro plovor, duck, kinefishor, horon,
ravon, robin, snipo, woodpcckor, jay, ouscl, Hitc, rock
thrush, wagtail, titmousc, spnrrow, spoonbill, starlot,
starling, sandpipor, albatross, orct, hawk, nightingalo,
and polican.
Many spccios of fish aro found in tho stroams,
pools, and off-shoro wators of tho islands. Fishing is
a major industry for many of tho islandors. A majority
of spocios of fish aro tropical and arc not voll known
to tho avorago American, but among spocios which will
bo recocnizod aro bonito, tuna, shark, blucfish, ool,
flathoad, floundor, flying fish, gorfish, horring,
mackorol, mullot, soa bass, snappor, tarpon and a
一.3

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.92)
groat mumbor of shollfish. Most of tho fish aro odiblo
but thoro aro a fow poisonous specios and if tho G.I.
fishorman is in doubt, tho best authorities to consult
nro tho nativos thomsolvos.
一 4 

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.98)
OKINAWA BACKGROUND INFORMATION
CHAPTER II
HI STORY OF OKINAWA
Okinawa is not merely tho island of the swoet
potato, the habu, the Gook, and the "forgotton G.I."
It is — or was — a glittoring Oriental state in
microcosm. Its history has all the trappings of its
more protentious neighbors -- logodary herpes, tho
riso and fall of dynastios, alternating poriods of
vigorous indepondence and foroign domination, groat
artists and lordly patrons of thc arts, sagos, saints
and statesmcn, virtuous and voluptuous womon, philo-
sophers and philandorors, pious priosts and pationt
poasants, overy elomont, in fact, of a varicd and
often exciting society. Whatover it may bo or soom
to be today, Okinawa has not been historically a for-
sakon Pacific isle ronoto from oven thc backwash of
civilization.
Okinawan history bcgins as it rocently soamod to
cnd — in chaos. In the boginning. according to tho
Omoro, Okinawa's Book of Gonosis, was Todo-ko, tho
Sun god, and chaos. Through Todo-ko's intervontion,
chaos was resolved into land and sea. Tho first
land to materialize was the mimute island of Kutaka
Shima, several miles off southeastern Okinawa.
There two dem-Gods. Shinireku and Mamiko, performed
momumental labors. They carried stone and sand and
earth, hewed rock, and planted trees and grasses.
They arrested the floods which regularly imundated the
island. Later they wrested fire from the jealous fire
breathing Sea Dragon. Finally. through the mediation
of the Wind, they produced offspring - mortal men,
who anjoyed the fruits of the land and the blessings
of fire. Presently the descendants of these men
amigrated to Okinawa, a vast new universe to which
their own labors gave final shape.
Written records of tho Ryukyus begin about 600
AD in Chinese and Japanese documents. In 605 and 606
the Ohinese engaged in an a-typical episode of foreign
expansionism when they sont missions to Okinawa to
demand tribute and submission, demands which the
Okinawans refused with vigor and impunity. The Jap-
-5

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.97)
anese in 714 indulged in a correspondingly a-typical
indifference toward the Ryukyus, imoring an open
invitation'from the Northern Ryukyu islanders to
investieato the group. During the next few centuries
contacts with China and Japan were infrequent and
irregular. The period was of independent Okinawan
dovelopment with the island divided into many tiny
feudal states whoso potty lords built themselvos
fortified castles and supported small armies of re-
tainers.
The yoar 1187 1s tha first momentous dato in
Ryukyu history. Thon Shunten, reputodly the sono
of a Japanoso hore Minamoto Tanotomo and an Okinawan
princoss, ostablishod himself King of all Okinawa.
King Shunten acknowledgod tho ovorlordship of tho
Princo of SSatmma in Kyushu and thus gavo basis to
lator Japanese claims to the island. The unifiod
kingdom of Okinawa survivod, Shunton and his son and
grandson. Under the succoeding Eiso:line of kings
it first mado rapid stridos in cultural dovolopment.
King Eiso himsolf (rcignod l260-1298) 1s famous for
having dovisod an oquitablo systom of taxation, for
introducing (from China) tho splcndid "turtlo-baok"
stylo Okinawan temb, for importing (from Japan) the
practice of Budhiem, and for bringing all the Ryukyu
Islands by penceful moans to acknowlodgo his souvo-
rodgnity.
Aftor a fow genorations tho. United Kingdom
collapsed and semi-indepondent feudal lords dofiod
the powor of the king at Shuri. Now came tho poriod
of the Throo Kingdoms when warfaro was inoessant,
oconomic distress mountod. and tho cultural achiovo
monts of soveral conturios wero imporiIod. But a
fortunnto now influonco mado its appoarance and soon
resultod in groat onomic and political and cultural
advances. Okinawn oamo into direot and contimuod and
fruitful contact with China, whióh itself was ox-
porioncing a renaisscnoo undor tho nowly. ostablishod
Ming dynasty.
In 1372 King Satto, who had umurpod tho throno
at Smuri, dispatched his brothor to. Paking with
voluntary tribute of sulphur and horses for. tho
Ming omporor. Tho visit paid off handsomely. for the
prince returnod to Okinawn with rich gifts of silk,
一

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.98)
pottor, procolain, and iron tools. Mhat was more,
ho brought reports that the Chinose court would look
with favor upon tho contimued communications and
tributo from Okinawa and would mako moro than con-
munsurato roturns. King Satto had achieved Ohineso
imperial recognition and patronago and he capitalized
upon it. Presantly tho sons of tho Shuri gontry
woro voyaging to Poking to study i= a special hall
maintainod for them by tho Ming mperor: they returned
to Okinawa to introduco Chinese arts and sciences and
mannors. Somo yoars lator (1392) the Ming mperor
graciously permittod 36 Chinoso familios to emigrate
from Foochow to Naha, thero to toach shipbuilding and
navigation, Chinose language and philosophy, to act
as commorcial and cultural intermediaries between
Paking and Shuri. The pooplo of Chuzan (King Satto's
state) rapidly dovclopod into onterprising and pros-
perous son tradors, voyaging as far north as Korea,
as far south as the Indios. Thoy also became students
f Chinese art and philosophy, and imitators and adap-
tors of Chinese arts and crafts. The lords of Manzan
ind Hokuzan (the two rical states of Chuzan), mean-
wnile, woro not unawnro of tho advantages occuring to
Cauzan and thomselvos ostablished tribute rolations
with China. Soon they rocogmizod the paramount power
of Chuzan and Okinawn was once agnin a unified nation,
now ncknowlodging Chineso sovereignity, its kings
invested with authority by Chinese imperial emissaries
who travolod from Peking to Naha by specially dosignated
"Coronation Ships". Okinawa flourishod, and talos of
ita cultural advancos and its commercial prospority
roached Japan. Tho Japanose sent traders to oxploit
tho Fyukyu-China trado and Budhist missionaries to
propagato tho Japanose brand of Budhism and Japanese
art and loarning in genoral. But Japaneso influence
was still peaceful and still subordinate to Chinoso
and rosultod actually in further quickoning of Okd-
nawan dovolopmont.
In 1477 the third king of tho socond Sho dynasty,
ono ho-shin, asconded the throne at Shuri and what
local historians proudly tarm Okinawa's Golden Ago
was ushorod'in. King Sho-shin.contimued to encourage
trade, which was tho sourco of Okinawa's wealth and
powor, and he now procoeded to spond largo parts of
the profits of trade enhancing the state. Idke Louis
XIV of Franco, ho sought to achiove at the same time
一7

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.98)
the unification, beautification of his stato and the
enfeeblement of his nobles by gathering his foudal
lords togother in his capital, encouraging them to
build fino villas, to patronise the arts, to satiate
thomsolvos in luxurios, and, as a not unforesoon
consoquonco, to forogo the stornor ways of war. Ho
built Shuri Castle for himself, luid out a magmificont
wall nnd parkway and moat, robuilt Smuri according to
a unifid city plan, institutod roafforostation and
consorvation programs, ostablishod a rigid casto systom
with difforontiations of costume and manners, soquo
torod ail tho arms of tho ialand and stored thom in
his nationnl warehousos, patronizod all the arts,
rocording tho "omoro", tho Okinawa Divino Poom.
King Sho-shin's successors carried on tho grand
tradition and for ovor a contury Okinnwa enjoyed woalth
and prospority. Thon in 1609 tho Goldon Ago camo to
an abrupt and disastrous tormination when tho Japanoso
suddonly invadod tho island. Japan had just sufforod
ignominous defeat in Korea, and partly to save face,
partly to aohieve rovonge bocause Okinawa had rofused
to holp provision Japanoso armies in Korea, Japan
sathorod togethor a small fleot and invaded the defense
loss islard of Okinowa." In tho courso of a couple
of yoars, during which timo the King of Okinawa was a
privilogod hostage in Japan, a Japanoso carpot bagging
govornment oxploited and impoverished the island and
monopolisod. the Chinn trado. Two factors, howovor,
combincd to work Okinava's rapid rohabilitation -
ono was tho sagacity of hor statesmen, tho other was
tho poculiar doviousnoss of Japnoso politics.
To offoct tho oconomic reconstruction of Okinawa,
a projoot which was under way oven before Japaneso
invasion mado it imporativo, two of King Sho-noi's
statemmon, Gima Shinjo and Nogumi Sokwan by name.
1ntroduood from Chinn the swoet potato (1605) and
the techniques of sugar mamufacture (1623), thus
placing Okinawan agricultural economy on its modern
footing. A few years later (1638) Japan instituted
:hor polioy of isolationim, a policy which worked to
Okinawa's immediate and great advantage since Japan
typically left several loopholes, of which Okinawa
was one. Okinawn was considered by the Japanese to
be a part of the domain of the Princess of Satmuma
in Xyush), not a part of the Japanose empire proper.

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.98)
This circumstance was perfectly satisfactory to the
trade conscious Princess of Satsuma, who reasoned that
the closure of the ampiro did not imply the clomure
of Okinawa, that thoir own trade with the island
could contimuo and incroaso, and that the ultimate
source of goods which they secured in Orinawa was a
mottor of which they nood take no offical comizance.
So tho Princess of Satsumc quietly encourage Okinawa's
Chinn trade and in ordor to avoid tho suspicion of
oponly dofying an imperial edict, they themeelves
withdrow from diroct mancgoment of it and evon from
diroct oxploitation of tho 1slnnd, leaving Okinawan
trado and politics alrost altogother in the hands of
the Okinawans thensolvos. Thus Okinawa enjoyed a
rostorntion of prestige und prosperity and bocano
tho centor of a bri ak transhipment wade betweon
China and Japan. Okinawa paid tribute to both coun-
tries, and since it suited the converience of both
to contimue the Okinnwan trade without intervention,
neither denanded a clarification of Okinawa's ano-
nalous position. The situation at Shuri typifios
the relations anong China, Japan and Okinawa for
sevoral hundred years. On either side of the nain
audienco chanber at Smuri Castle was a subordinate
chamber, one built and fitted in Chinese stylo for
roception of Chinese envoys, the other built and
fitted in Japanese stylo for reception of Japanese
envoys; on occasions when either Chinese or Japaneso
wero to bo especially honored and feted, the other
party left town and therofore was not officially
aware of the favors shown their rivals.
In tho two hundrod yoars aftor 1638 Okinawa
onjoyod prosperity not as great as boforo and grad-
ually dininishing as the years wont on, but prospority
novortholess, and peaco and virtual independonce.
Thon about the beginning of the 19th century tho
Westorn powors began to tako an interest in Okinawa.
In the 1840's the Fronch and British both tried to
negotiate trade agreomonts and both suggled in semi-
official missionary roprosentatives. In l853 the
Amoricans arrived when Conmodoro Perry, as a sort of
trial heat for his Japan venture, visited and opened
Okinawa, soouring a trade agreement with the King at
Suri, actually purchasing land at Naha for a U.S.
Naval Coaling Station. Commodore Porry had grandioso
ideas about the futuro of U. S. intorost in Okinawn
一9-

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.98)
and in the islands of tho Southwest Pacific in goneral.
Ho failcd to roalize his ambitions in this rospect
largoly bocause he succeeded so brilliantly in opening
Japan. In Japan the United States found more than
adoquato opportunity for commorcial oxpansion and
for ports of call on trans-Pacific voyages and con-
soquently lost interest in the Ryukyus, the Bonins,
and othor island toward which sho had possible claims
or aspirations.
Soon aftor Perry's visit, Japan hereelf bogan
to plan cxpansion. Tho Ryukyus woro a natural first
choico. In l871 Japan announced that the Ryukyus
wero a Japanese posscssion. In 1874 she placod tho
island undor the Japanoso Homo Offico for administra-
tive purposos. In 1879 sho made tho islands an
intogral part of tho ompiro propor. The King of
Okinawa was reduced to a Viceroy of Japan in 1871,
to a Marquis of the Japanose. roalm in 1879, when he
was removod to Tokyo and there provided with pensions
and estates sufficient to make him forego any further
claim to Okinawa. In this regard, it is noteworthy
that the rostoration of imperial power in Japan,
which lod diroctly to Japan's influence and woalth
of tho Prince of Satsuma. who had acquired no littlo
of that influence and wealth as a result of tho Oki-
nawa trade. Okinawa contributed very directly to
the Meiji restoratic and the appearance of Japan as
a world power, and Okinawn was the fir st to suffer
as a consequence theroof.
SAnce 1879 the history of Okinawa has boon a
story of increasing Japanese influence and of Japan-
ization. Tho two groatost Japanese achievements
cane after 1900. One was the land readjustmont pro-
gram which convertod what had been commonly owned
lands into privately owned lands. To this land tho
small privato owners managed amazingly well to retain
titlo. a fact which onablod them to remain self-res-
pocting and rolativoly, prosperous independent farmers.
The other was the educational program, which went
far toward converting tho people of Okinawa and tho
other Ryukyu behaviour patterns, the same manner of
living and thinking as the peoplo of Japan propor.
But thore remained, naturally, a difforence -- tho
poople of Okinawa had thoir own history and their
own culture and thoy did not rapidly forget it.
-10

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.97)
Thoy wore treated as social inferiors by the mainland
Japanesc, and while thore was no roal oppression or
exploitation of Okinawa, neither was there a full
assimilation into the Japanese system. The people
of Okinawa were loyal to Japan, but they wero not
ardently, certainly not fanatically patriotio Jap-
anoso subjects. They had a local pride as Okinawans
which caused them to resist comploto Japanisation.
Sinco 1 April 1945 tho Okinawans havo considered
thamselves once again cut away from tho Japanese
sphere; they aro not as yet permanently attached to
ny othor, but when thoy are it will be as Okinawane
a pooplc who realizo that they have a history and a
civilization and a culturo which is truly their own.
-11-

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.96)
OKIHAWA BACKROUID INFORMATION
CHAPTIR III
PEOPLE OF TIE RYUKYUS
I.CIAL CHARACTERI STIC S:
Racially, the Riuku islundors arc similar to
tho Jnpnncsc. Both scen to roprosort mixturos of
four types of pcoplo: First, the oarly Aimus, a
stocky, licht.skinned. hoiry pe pc; cesond, a pro
histor:c wave of innigrants fren the south,, Malayan
in blood and rosonbling thc aboriginos of Formosa
and the Philippines; third, an carly Mongoloid stock,
nigrating by wa' of Korea; and later, infiltrations
of moro advanccd Mongolian peoples, also by way of
Koron.
Tho Aimu charactcristics are moro prodominant
mong the Ryukyuans than among the Japanose. Another
differonco is that during carly historical poriods
the Chinese interminl od with tho Rrukyunns to some
oxtont. The ndmixturo of European blood has boen
oxcccdingl slight.
Thoro is little Cifference in physical appean
anco betwcon the Ryuus islanders and the Japanoso
although, Cuc to the heavier admixturo of Aimu blood,
the Rrukyuans often are somewhnt shorter, are stockier,
have more prominent nosos, higher foroheads, loss
noticoablo chockboncs, and have moro beard and body
hrir. Tho adult malc of tho Ryukyus averages two
or throo inchos ovor five foct in height and tho womon
about four inches loss. They have olive comploxions,
black hair, and black or brown eyos.
Dospito thc close similarity botwoon tho Ryukyu
islandors and the Japanosc, the lattor rogard thom as
"poor country cousins" and look down thoir nosos at
thom. Tho Ryukyuans, howover, aro proud of thoir
own heritago and do not look to Japan for thoir his
torical or cononlogical inspiration.
-12-

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.99)
LANGUAGE:
Standard Japanese has been taught in Ryukyus
schools for more than 50 years and is widely spoken
throughout the islands. Even before modern education
came along, Japanese as spoken in Okinama's court
circiles.
The Okinarans, hovever, do have colloquialisms
which are not readily intelligible to the Jananese.
Some of these are hangovers from their aboriginal
language, commonly called Luchuan. This language
no longer is commonly spoken, oxcept perhaps in the
most isolated areas of the Ryukyus. Pronounciations
vary somevhat throughout the islands, just as they
do from one area to another back in the United States.
Very fen Ryukyuans are proficient in English
sinco it vas not stresscd in thoir schools nearly as
much as it has been in Japan. Once in a while one
finds a native who has returned from Hamaii or South
America, bringing back a knonledge of English, Spanish
or Portuguose, but thesc persons are few in number.
POPULATION:
The Ryukyus Islands have been heavily populated
for centuries. When Commodore Perry visited in 1853
he estimated that the Great Loo Choo (Okinava) had
from 150,000 to 200,000 inhabitants, or 310 to 412
persons por square mile.
The first official census made by the Japanese
Government in 1920 indicated a total population through-
out the Ryukyus of 856,&92. Emigration from the
islands has beon quite common, however, and by 1940
the population had dropred to 839,449. Of this number,
435,681 persons lived on Okinawa.
Virtually all tho inhabitants of the Ryukyus,
for a census purpose may be classed as Japanese.
A census report for 1937 showed only 66 foreigners
living on Okinava. Theso were: listed 25 Chinese,
20 Hamaiians, 13 Americans, 6 Russians, 1 Filipino
and 1 Canadian.
-13-

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.98)
. The. Ryukyus have more women than men. On Oki-
newa the pre war sex ration was l15 women te oach
100men.
The birth.rate of tho Okinawa prefecture for
1937 was 26.4. This is high when compared to Wostern
standards (comperative rates.in 1936 where 16.6 for
tho Unitod Statos. 15.3 for England, and 22.4 for
Italy) by rolatively low according to Japanose standards
Tho birth rate for Japan proper: in 1937 was 30.6.
Although tho fomale population throughout the islands
oxcceds tho male population,. the samo census figures
reported more malo than female births, particularly
in Smuri city on Okinawa. There are some intimations
that femalc infanticide may have accounted for tho
disparity. Although the rate in tho Ryukyus is high
according to our stendards, so is tho death rate —
with thc result that the population is not expanding
cxcossivoly.
CLOTHINGAD RANEAI
Most clothing of Okinawan nativos shows a do
finite G.I. influenco theso days, duo to. tho genoro-
sity of the Military Government which is helping
them rosume their pro-ways of lifo.. But tho nativo
clothing as worn before the American invasion was
similar to that found in Japan propor.
The businessmen and official's of Naha and Shuri
generally wore Western style clothing during working
hours, exchanging thoir businoss suits for kimonos
or robos in the privacy of their homes. Such robos
usually were of cotton, infreguontly of silk, mado
loose and flowing with wide sleovos and a wido sash
tied in front.. From the sash usually hung a tobacco
pouch and fan. Formerly the robos wore colorful, but
gradually ceme to be tonod down to colors of drab
blue or gray. A malo workor, whilo in tho fiolds
during hot woather, ofton woro only a loin cloth.
A looso short-sleoved shirt and baggy trousors was a
common conbination anong the laborors.
Nativa garb is still worn by most Ryukyus woncn.
This consists of a ano-pioce sleevoloss undergarnent
ovar which, is worn a robo of cotton or of oloth wovon
from banana fibers. Hero and thore one sees an Oki-
-14

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.97)
nawan woman who woars Westorn stylo clothing. Among
the younger women ofton is found a blouso-skirt con-
bination much like those worn in tho States. Thoy
younger women are "style-conscious" and groatly onjoy
lopking at tho illustratod Amorioan nagasines to soo
what Wostorn girle aro voaring.
Westorn style:shoos aro scaroo in tho Ryukyus
and usually are found only on thoso people who had
some wealth befare the war. Woven sandals aro
common, as well as wooden clogs. A majority of tho
laboring poople(go barofaoted, oxposing them to hook-
worm infestation.
Ornanontation doos not play an inportant rolo
in the life of the avorage Ryuryus islander. Tho
man onco wore colorful robos and woro metal pins
in their hair, bat the robes havo assumed a more
somber huo and tho men disoardod tho pins sono years
ago whon thoy began woaring thoir hair short. The
womon cormonly woar gold rings and ocoasionally wear neck-
lacos. Formorly thoy woro tattooing on the backs of
their bands placed thore as e part of cach young.
girl's puberty ritos,:but this ritual was diboardod.
Perhaps'tho most common ormamontation of all, among
both sexos, is cold teoth.  It is considerod a mark
of affluonce and prostige to havc ono's tooth filled
or cappod with ghiny. gold.
LIFE ROUTINE:
Tho Japaneso introducod the Grogorian calondar
of Wostern culture into the Ryukyus, and vilaago offi-
cos and the schools officially obsor vo its Sunday
holidey foatures. But tho natives, ompocially tho far
mers, follow their old lunar calendar of 12 nonths of
29 and 30 days altornatoly, with an interoalary
nonth of varying longth added in sond yoars to bring
tho calondar back into harmony with tho. solar yoar.
Many houscholds had both types of calondars..
The nativos havo a punbor of spocial holidays
throughout the yoars, observing soasons, growing of
crops, and paying respoct to tho dead.
The woet potato is tho staplo food for all class
os and for all meals in tho Ryukyus, with rico as a
substituto or additional dish. Tho'principal meats
-15.-

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.97)
aro pork, boef, horso nont, goat moat, chickon and
duck. Fowl is ponsidorod such a dolicacy that anong
tho poorer families it is cnten only upon cotomonial
occasions or is saved for the agod or ill. A consi-
dorablo varicty of fishcs aru onton, as woll as octo-
pus, frogs, and driod col, with turtlo and ahollfish as
dalicacios. Vogotnblos includo boans (used in cakos
or soups), cabbages, turo, tomatoos, cucumbers, and
squash. Fruits arc consunod in linitod quantitios.
Thoy consist.nainly of small orangos, with sono
poachos, watermelons, persimmons, and pomogranatos.
.Tho comnon condimonts aro sugar, salt, peppors, and
soyboan smeo..
Tobacco is widoly usod throughout the islands, by
womon as woll as mon. liost of it is homo growm.
Miners aro forbiddon by law to snokc. Thorc is no
roport of thousc of narcotics in thc islands.
SEX AIND MARRIAGE CUSTOMS:
Boforo tho war there was allargo amount of opon
prostitution in the urban crcus of tho Ryukyus, which
might indicato that cxtra-maritel sox relations, if
not premarital sox rolations ns'woll, woro common and
wero acceptod. The actunl fact. hovover. is that wives
and daughters are woll protocted. As lnto as tho bo
ginning of this contury rospoct for womon was so
great thnt it was considcrod rudo to ask aftor tho
hoalth of onc's wifo or daughters.
In 1933 thoro werc rogistorod in tho Okinava pro
focturo 333 go1sha g1rls, 640 prostitutcs, and 325
"waitrosses" in Japanoso restnurants, cafos or bars
who also practiced prostitution. In 1939 onc liconsod
quartor in Naha was said to havo botwoen two and four
thousand irls. Tho Okinawa prefocturo maintainod on
station for tho examination of prostitutos and ono
hospital for thoir trontmont. In 1937 tho oxmining
station avoraged 657 oxaminations a day, administoring
a total of 29,372 oxaninations and troatments during tho
ycar. of thoso 906 or about 3 por cont woro found to
bu affcctod with voncraal diseaso, but nly 52 cascs
woro syphilitic.
Tho Tsuji quartor in Naha, tho largest in tho
Ryukyus, was a contor of social lifo. The best ros
-16-

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.97)
taurants woro found thoro. It was a rondozvous for
parties, rounions, conforonces. and othor social gnthor
ings. Tho sirls, in addition to othor contributions,
jvovidod ontortainmont in tho form of song and danco.
Tho girls ont rod tho ontortainment businoss
thraugh salo from tho pooror familios. Thoy woro ablo
lator to obtain thoir froodom. howovor. and to sot
thomsolvos up in businoss through buying irls. In
many. casos thoy bocdmo mistressos.or ovon wivos of
wonlthy patrons. Mon condidet in thom and tradors ofton
loft businoss mattors in their hands, for thoy woro
roputod .to bo quito honost. On occasion thoy dancod
through tho stroets for tho benofit of the puhic.
Thoir dross usually was a bright-colorod kimono in the
traditional Ryukyu stylo. .No mon, oxoopt patrons,
wero to bo found in tho quartor. Tho honds of tho
ostablishmonts usually woro oldor womon, usually for-
mor prostitutos, who woro callod "mothors" and who troa-
tod tho tirls in a matornal fushion. Each girl had
hor own room and a fair amount of frcodom. Many bo-
camo tho o:xlusivo mistrossos of individual patrons.
Somotimos thoy bocano pr ognant and roarod thoir chil-
dron in tho quartors.
Marriagos among R:ukyuans nro noarly always nogo
tiatod by paronts. Botrothals arc concludod, through
a.go-botwoon, at any timo during tho livos of tho
young pooplo. The botrothal is usually a coromony.
accompaniod by tho drinking of rico wine and tho crrry-
ing out of rituals.
Although oxcoptions occur it has:boon conmon to
frown upon intormarriago botwoon Ryukyurins and Japo-
noso. Japaneso familics commonly disown thoir daugh
tors for mar ying a nativo Okinawan: at tho samo tino,
many Okinawans havo such prido in thoir horitago that
thoy rofuso to marry a Japanoso.
"Child marriagos" aro not common in tho Ryukyus.
In 1937 tho avorage mnrrying ago on Okinawa was ropor
tod as 37 yours for mon and 24 yours for womon. In
tho town of Itomen it was conmon for a man to marry
a wonan oldor than hinsolf.
RELIGTON IN THE HYUKYUS:
-17

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.97)
Tho roligions of tho Ryukyus aro not nocrly so stan-
dardimod as the moro popular religlons of Wostorn Givi-
lizntion and it is a bit difficult to dofino oxactly
the common roliglous boliefs of thoso islands. Howovor,
the influoncos which aro conbinod in naking up today's
rather evasivo boliofs can bo shown.
Prinarily, tho avorago Okinawan's roliglon is based
upon animisn -- whidh is a form of nnturo worship in
which tho boliever regards inpersonnl objects as having
lifc or a soul. Tho mtive animian has beon omporod
considorably by tho influoncos of Shintoiam. Buddhism,
Confucianian and Christianity.
Tho Okinawans onorally do not havo roliglous noo
ting placos comparablo to Wostorn churchos. Roligious
obascrvnncos cornonly tako placo in the hono, at tho
family tonbs, at outdoor ahrines and tomplos, or in
othor outdoor provon sitos.
Tho placos of worship at Itoman on Okinawa probo-
bly woro typical. Thoy woro of throo typos: irst,
tho nountuins, the ocoan and tho natural cavcs noar tho
boach; socond, tho prayor sitos scattered about tho
country-sido, including sacred groves, nountain poaks,
hills, and dodiceted spots along tho roads; and, third,
tho templ os, most of which woro vory simplo structuros.
Pricstossos comnonly hclpod administer tho nativo
roligion, taking a praninont part in tho annual fosti-
vals. Thoy ofton woro visited for advice and pmayers.
They dorivod their support from offorings and from pay
ments, ofton of land. In somo fapilios tho priostoss
tradition was handod down from gonoration to gonoration,
and tho various gifts and offorings mado tho fanilios
rolativoly woalthy. Celibacy onco was roquirod of tho
priostossos but has bocono a dognn of tho past.
Roligdous sorvicos aro hold only in obsorvanço of
cortain inportant fostivals. Thoso fostivals aro'markod
by obeisanccs to tho gods, by singing and dancing by
tho rocital of prayor formulas, and by sacrificial offor-
ings. Thoy aro arrangod in a coromonial calondar which
varies from locality to locality. Tho following 1s a
typical serics:
-18-

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.97)
A new year dorhmeny s the'first day of tho
firet month of tho calondar.::
A fostival colobrating tho planting of swoot
potatocs, hold during tho third month.
A rico-planting coremony in tho fifth month.
A so-cnllod "grcat fostival" in tho sixth nonth
An important coromony, hcld in tho soventh
month, at which the gods of tho soa and nountains
arc askod for good fishing and hunting.
A colobration on tho tonth day of thc cighth
month
A harvost corenony in tho ninth month, at
which rice is cut and offerod at shrinos.
A firo-worshipning ccromony in tho tonth month.
A ccromony during the oloventh month, at which
swect potatoos aro offerd.
Shintoism. Shintoism was introduced into tho i
lands by tho Japancso in carly days and moro.rocontly
has boon officially fostcrod. It has its strongost
follwing in the islards closost to tho mainland, but
olsowhore it rcportodly has influencod tho nativo cult
only sl1ghtly. In the Okinawaprofocturc in 1937 only.
9.335 Shintoists werc officially rcported. So-callod
"Emporor worship" socns not to have been tnken very
soriously in the Ryukyus. at lonst, not on Okinawa or
its noarby islands.
Buddhism. Buddhism was introducod in thc thirt
tconth contury by a few Japanese Buddhist priests.
Though it had some influence on tho native roligion in
oarlier days it nevor took firm root and ceasod to bo a
powor by 1895. Thore aro no monastarics, althouch a
fow priosts havo functioned on corononial occasions
such as funcrals. In tho Okinawa profocturo 29 tomplos
wore reported in 1932 and 22, 208 Buddhist adhoronts in
1937.
-19-

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.97)
Confuciantm. Confucianian had a mall influonco
during tho fourtoonth contury in consoquonco of contacts
with China. Its prinoipal offects were to fostor an-
costor worship. Boforo tho war thore reportedly was
only ono mall templo dodicated to Confucius, locatod at
Naha.
Christianity. . Christianity has had a difficult
time taking root in the Ryukyus. In 1937 thoro woro
21 Protostant churchos and preaching stations of various
donominations in tho Okinawa profocturo, all sorvod by
Japanese pastors. Thcir total memborship was 1,207 or
about ono-fifth of ono por cent of tho population.
That Christianity, though lacking a strong fol-
lowing, has had a pronounced influcnco upon tho livcs of
many.Okinawans is tho opinion of Chaplain Garland E
Hopkins of the U.S. Army who, Iato in 1945, mado a.
study of Christianity on Okinawa.
Tho study, which was printed in a U. S. roligious
publication and reprintod in Timo Magazine, said in
part:
"Thoro is in Okinawa an Advisory Council, which
was clected from approvod candidatos by the Okinawans.
Not oxpocting to find ovon one Christian among tho 15
logislativo advisors, I yot asked if any of thon woro
Christians. No official of Military Governmont know,
but one remombered that a member by the name of Toyama
rofused a cigaretto onco and someono hnd oxplainod that
ho did so bocuase he was Christian I hurried to find
Mr. Toyama. I have met many splondid, worid-nindod
Christians in my own and in othor lands, but nono of
them evor combined more traits of tho true Christian
Contleman than scholarly, courtoous Toyama Soikon.
Unable to speak English he mottbncd mo to bo soated and
wont next door for an intorprotor. Tho intorprctor
turnod out to bo a mombor of St. John's Episcopal
Church. Now York, who has his M.A. in Enginooring
from Colunbia Univorsity. Councilman Matsuoka Soiko.
I soon lcarnod that four of the 15 councilmon aro
Christian, and .that thoy hold tho most important posts
in local government.
"Shikiya Koshin is Prosidont of the Council; Mr.
-20 -

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.96)
Matsuoka is Socrotary: Mr Toyana is Chief of Tho Dopart-
mont of Oulturo. and Adunia Soiro is Chiof of Commorco
and Industry: Tour out of 15 whon today thore renain
only nbout 800 Ohristians out of a. postwar populction of
865,000."And thoso aro no opportunists. Toyama was a
profocturaI assombly nombor beforo the war. Shi!dya
was tho hoadmastor of a boys'cschool. Matsuoka was an-
agod in tho sugar businoss, whilo Adonia was hoad of
tho handwork industry of tho island.
"... I boliovo that a proporly staffod mission forco
could como in now and convort moro than half of Okinawa
to Thristianity within a goneention. Tho timo is oppor-
tuno. Anorican tro tment of ainawans, mrticularly
Ocinawan prisoners of war, has nonrly complotoly won
tho rospoct and adniration of tho pooplo. Sinco thoy
havo lnrnod of Japanoso atrocitios thoy think of our
policy as a Christian way of doing: good for:ovil...
Mhat is noodod now aro schools (including a sominary),
a hospital, public. heal th workcrs aml.pastors. Put
ton workors horc for ton yoars and I fully beliovo
that tho Okinawans could carry on for thonsolyos
aftor that.
"... Tho caliber, rather than tho mumbor of workors
1s tho most important consideratior Okinawans aro
peoplo of an old and valid culturo. Thoy havo thoir
own logitimntc stago, thoir profossional oporn can
panios which porforn' thoir native opcras, writton
hundrod s of yoars ago. Thoy aro a raco of thinkors and
artists.  In Mr. Toyama's worde. "Sond us mission rics.
Wo noed then. But toll your pooplo. to send us mon who
aro not so much concornod as to whothor we. smako or
dancos 'Send us mon who havo a mcssago of intorntional-
ian throuh Christian brothorhood, whoso devotion
is to truth and lovo,:not passing fads and fancios."
DETH AND. BURIAL8
Funcral proctioos of tho Okinawans are rolatod to
tho ancostral cult'and have no connoction with Shin
toimm. Indood, crmation, which is concral. in Japan,
was little known on Odnawa althongh it was-radually
coming into use in tho Nahn-Shuri aroas. Earth barial
is tho goncral rulo. Thorp woro roported. Soforo the
war, to bo 386 comotorios in tho Okinawa prefpcturo
and 32,71l family burial placos. Tho well-built stone
aind concroto tombs on tho hillsidos contrast sharply
-21 -

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.98)
with the miserable dwellings. The natives believe
tombs to be more important than homes.
(For further information on burial customs, see
OKINATA TOMBS AND BURIAL CUSTO'S, ritten by Military
Government, copy included with this memorandum.)
RECREATION:
Music and dancing form an important part of the
social life of mbst Ryukyu~nntives. The darisen, a
three-stringed instrumont introduced centruries ago
from China, and the somisen, a similar Japanose in-
strumont, are commonly used to accompany traditional
songs of thc islands. Dancing and music are foatures
of most rural social gatherings and of tho annual
fostivals.
Commorcializod amusoments were largely centered
on Okinama in tho citics of Nahe and Shuri whore
there wore movio theaters, playhousos, concorts,
vrostling and fencing bouts, and numerous houses cater-
ing exclusively to thc pleasures of mon.
Basoball has been introducod to some oxtont in
the Ryukyus, although gamos poculiar to the islands
.are more common, including karato, a type of solf-
defensc, as vcll as the well-knom judo. Horso
racing once as nopular. Bofore tho destruction of
Naha, festivals often vould includo a tug-of-mar
involving several hundred mon pulling on a rope about
300 yeards in longth.
ATTITUDES:
Tho Ryukyu islanders gencrally are industrious,
mild-mannorcd, fairly cloan, courtoous to outsiders,
and subserviont to authority. They havo showm thom-
sclves in recont gonorations to be almost totally
uniarlike.
Politenoss, vith all its formal boving and de-
forence to tho rank of ecch individual, is oxhibited
by Okinarrans but to a much smallor dogroo than in Japan.
Standards of personal modesty aro loss rigid than in
vestern culturo, and nudity and cxcrotion are not or-
dinarily considored matters to cause much cmbarassment.
-22 -

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.97)
"Saving faco" has its moaning to tho Ckinawans,
howerer, and one ahould not causo unnocossary ambarass
mont to a nativo unloss ho has a noans of covering tho
discomfort.
FAMILY LIFE IMPORTANT:
Tho houschold is tho nost important unit in Ryulgu
sociotys It is basod upon tho biological family of
paronts and children. In 1935 only 7,555 parsons out
of a total populution of 839,449, or fowor than ono per
cont, wero not attached to a houschold. The avorago
housohold on akinawa containod botwoen 4 and 5 porsons.
The husband and father is tho hoad of a houschold,
: although thoro ofton is'strong individuali m among
fanily mombors. On Okinawa, for oxanplo, cach nambor
of tho fanily had control of his own finincos and oach
contributed to tho cost of maintaining the fanily
unit. In Itoman a huisband ofton would sell his fish
to his wifo at a reducod price, and sho in turn would
market them at a profit, keoping tho difference as
"pin monoy."
Excopt for tho houschold, kin roups arn far less
important than in many other socioties.
Throughout most of the Rukyus tho unit of sot-
tlenent is the famstead. It consitts of a small plot
of land with a dwelling and outbuildings. Although
farmstoads sometimes aro isolntod, thoy usually aro
cllsterod in amall villagos.
Mine sottlamonts in tho Ryukyus aro, or woro,
large enough to be ranked as: citios or towns. Tho
cities woro Shuri, tho ancient capital, and Naha,
loading port and business center, located about throo
miles apart in south contral Okinawa. Tho towns aro,
or woro, Mshinoonoto on Tancga Shima, Koniyu and Naso
on Amani O Shina, Itonan and Nago on Okinawa, Hirara
on Miyako Jina, and Ishigaki on Ishigaki Jima In 1940
Naha had a population of 65, 765, Smur1 17,537, Itoman
6,872 and Naz0 21,372.
SOCIAL CLASSESI
-23-

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.97)
SOCIAL CLASSE S:
In typical Japanoso sociuty class difforontiations
havo long boon considorod vory important. Pooplo aro
o pocted to move only among mambers of thoir owm class.
To a lossor degree this has boon truo in tho Ryukyus.
Beforc Japan annoxod tho Ryukyus there was a
woll-dofinod class systen dating back sevoral hundrod
years. Thorc woro as many as nino differont kinds.
nost of thom boing ordors of royalty, nobility and
contry. In addition thoro was a typo of sorfdom
among housohold servants of high ranking familios.
undor which tho sorvant would havo to work out his dobt
to his master. Strict rulos oxistod controlling tho
size, numbor of roons and nature of building matorials
for dwollings. Clothing, particularly hairdress, also
was rogulatod. The chiof signs of rank wore hairpins
of gold, silvor and baso motals, for use of royalty.
nobility and gentry, rospoctivoly. In addition there
was a warrior, or sanurai, class which owod loyalty to
its overlords.
But with Japan taking over, tho old class distino
tion began to break down. At tho prosont timo, or
provious to tho war. tho Japanese had listed throo
classes: nobility, gentry and connoners. Practically
all tho Ryukyuans woro rogarded by tho Japnnese as
being commonors.
In tho Ryukyu Islands. as in rural Japan. local
officials hold the positions of highest rank in the
community. Local hoadnen, school teachers and assom
blynen onjoy high social status. and landed farmors
form an upper middle class from which local officials
tend to be chosen. Artisans, fishormen, tenant farners
and operators of shops, rostaurants, and hotols also
occupy a relativoly low occupational status. A compli-
cation of this pattern comos about in the Ryukyus,
however, in that almost all of the highor administra
tive and school officials. and somo of tho lowor onos,
woro Japaneso and diù not minglo with tho nativo peoplo.
Ono of tho outstunding charactoristics of tho Jo
panoso poople is thoir tondoncy to align themselvos
with othors for the accompliahnont of cortain specific
purposos. s a rosult, thero aro nunorous orgonizo
-24

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.95)
tions in practically ovcry fiold of activity, both in
Japan and in tho Ryukyus. Thoso run all tho way fron
agricultural cooporativos and agricul tural improvomont
nssocintions to patriotic assxintions, young pooplo's
associntions, physical culturo nssociations, modical
associntions and housing associntions.
-25-

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.97)
OKINAWA BACKGROUND INFORMATION
CHAPTER IV
OKINAWAN TOMBS AND BURIAL OUSTOMS
Probably the most conspicuous man-made foature of
Okinawa is the Okinawan tomb, some thirty-two thousand
of which are built into tho nonmarable land of tho
Okinawan hillsides. About theso tombs and about Okd
nawan burial practicos thoro has boon much spoculation
some information, and considerable misinformation
The facts, as gathcred from investigation among the
local people themselvos, including tho most sbholarly
akinawan antiquarian, soom to bo as describod below.
Tho oarliest practico of the Okinawan people was
to placo the dead oither in the forests or, mere
commonly, on the senshore, and to allow the foroes of
naturo to dispose of the remains. Later the dead
were placod in natural caves in the cliffs by the see
shore. Tho practice subsequently arose of fitting
cavos with wooden, then stone doors, and of enlargiing
and imporoving upon the natural formation. inally.
as Okinawan civilisation advanced and as Chinose influ
ence became felt, the peeple began to build tombs of
the presont type. King iso (1329-1399) 1s reputedly
the first butlder of the imposing style of tomb which
characterizes modorn Okinawa. Tho shape is that of the
turtle's shell. The style was imported from South
Chinm, whoro the turtle symbolizes longevity: this
spocial significanco is still attached to the turtlo
in Okdnawa today, and it seoms clear that original
symbolism of the tomb was thereforo that of long life.
Much later anthropologically minded observors noted the
resomblanco of the shape of the tomb to tho bolly of a
woman and imposed their mere sophisticated interpre
tation in an effort to derive deeper religious signifi
cance from Okinawe practices. Thoir aocount has beoome
ourrent even among the Okinawans themselvos; briefly.
it is that the tomb roprosents tho womb, that entry
into tho tomb is thoroforo symbolical of reentry into
the womb, that the dinawans thus in their burial prao-
tiges o:proes thoir roligious belief in a Buddhistio
concent of the ovor-renowed lifo cyolo and of ro in
carnation. Thore appoars, howovor, to be no local
- 26 -

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.96)
boliof oithor in the non-ending lifo-cycle or in ro
incarnatiun,' and. while it is truo that the akinawans
arrango tho bodios of the dond in a position rosombling
tho position of tho fotus tho womb, tags drawm up
aminst the chest, thoy soom to attach no spocial
significanco to that fact. Tho rosomblanco of the tomb
to the womb sooms to bo puraly coinobdental, and whilo
tho akinawans may now accopt tho womb interprotation.
it was cortainly not tho original or ovon carly
concopt.
Tho turtlo-back tonb, in tho south a fanily
group tonb and in ather soctions of tho island a fam
ily torb. is tho most provalont typo. Thoro is
anothor typo, howovor,. which rosonblos a dwolling, samo-
tinos built into a hill, sanotimes, particularly in tho
Motobu aroa whore.tho tomb is much smaller, built above
ground liitć a dog houso. This typo is possibly oven
oldor than" tho turtlo-sholl type; it indicatos, por-
haps, a Ohinoso influenco and a bolicf in a lifo aftor
death whoro buildings and bolongings aro ossential.
akinawans lavishod comparativoly largo sums of
monoy upon thoir tonbs. Thoso which woro meroly
carved into a coral cliff like natural caves cost about
500; tho moro magificont turtlo-sholl tombs cost up
to 10, 000, and in' rocont yoars tho amount which could
bo spont upon tomb construction was limitod by law.
Tombs: woro roal proporty in overy sonse of tho word:
thoy could bo mortgagod, bought and sold, and it was
hot infroquont for a'family to ropair its fortunos by
disposing of a fing tomb, buying a-less improssivo
ono, and pockoting tho differoncoe.
Proferrod sitos for tombs were scenic hillsidos
facing South or.mst Locations wero soloctod by
nooromancors and had to bo in accord with tho "Funshi",
the Spitits of the Wind and of tho Wator. Tombs woro
built by the fandlios thomselves and their noighbors
or by profossional buildors. Once built. tho tomb was
dodicatod with somo coramony, not by priosts as might
be expoctod. but by musicians. Tho musicians would
play thoir sanisons and sing thoi'r most joyous songs;
thon tho fanily and frionds would foast in tho tomb
courtyard. and the spot would thoroaftor bo hallowed
for tho doad.
-22-

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.97)
Dunoral: practiccs vnriod in difforont soctions of
tho island but followod a gonaral pattorns Tho corpso
was washod and clothod in handsomo nrments appropriato
to tho sonson, thon placod in a woodon caskot In tho
main roon of tho hono Nocronancors wore consulted
inmediatoly after a denth to dotomino tho timo for
tho funornl coromony and othor dotails. A simplo cero-
mony was held in tho homo with Buddhist priost and
monbers of the family in attendanco, tho coronony con
sisting of burning inoonso boforo tho ancostrnl tablots
and inforning tho ancostors of the now doath. Tho body
was borno to tho cravo on a lacquor littor ormamontod
with paintod lotus flowors. The funoral procossion was
hoadod by a man boarin a white bannor on which were
aabroidorad religious charactars; folloving hin came
flowor, lantorn and incenso boarors, priosts, boarors
of tho doconsod's nano tablot, tho malo kin, tho littor
borrors, and thon tho rost of the rolatives and nour
nors. Most of tho mournors woro whito, but tho
chiof mournor woro a light browm kinono draped ovor his
hoad and was led by tho arm by his frionds.
On roaching tho tonb tho boarors plncod tho ca
kot just insido tho oponing with tho hoad pointing
Wost or North. Tho priosts thorod in the courtyard,
rociting tho sutras and boating gongs and ringing bolls;
tho chiof of nournors burnt inoenso beforo tho tomb;
tho othor mourners bowod to tho chief mournor and to tho
tomb. Aftor this &imple coromony. tho funeral party
returned homo, boing caroful to chooso anothor routo
than the one by which thoy camo. Stone masons ronainod
bohind to soal the tomb. Mournors might stop by tho
soashoro to cleanso thoir bodios on the way hono fron
tho tomb. and on the ovoning of the burial day thoy 
would throw stos around tho homo of tho docoasod to
drivo away his spirit of any ovil spirits which night
chanco to bo hovering about.
During tho fortynino days fallowing the funoral
corcmony, tho relatives wauld visit tho tonb ovory fair
day, carrying offerings of food and flowors. A spocial
sorvico would bo held on tho day following tho funorel,
anothor cvory sovonth day for sovon woaks. Tho docon
sod's nano tablct, which had beon carriod in tho
fulom:1 procossion, was rotainod in tho homo for sovon
woaks and beforo it woro mado offorings of food,
gonorally vogotable offorings only in good Buddhist
tradition, but somotimos pork as woll. At tho ond of
-28-

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.90)
tho seventh week the tomporary namo tablot was talon
to tho tomb and burnod; the name of tho decoasod was
thon cntered on a pormanent namo panol in tho ancostral
tablet rac': in the home, and it was thon as sumrd that
ho had  ssed cotely into the other wor d. Ciher cero
moni s w vo. acid on the hunlr th ry ater coath and
on ariv rs ries. particulari the ist. t.
sovenh thco, twertfsr, d thr hird.
Yoorly on Jemu ry 16th the fanil'as vi i t ho tombs
and  lt  r ef pcnie in hor  he doad.
After ciht coratirns tho dond were   domi
cods tt cs to  ays of the yenr were ros ho for
vor
n one to threo yoars aftor de h t tuab
would  r orond. the budy pomoved fror the as t.
the bone w.shed und seraned by the young unvried
girls of the frily. thon placcd in burinl urns,
plain pottcry urns for ordinnry porsono. c lorfully
glaz d and ornnmerted urns for the hoad of the fomily
and his wifc. Aftor many yoars tho dust might bo
omptiod ou of tho urns bohind tho altor insido tho
tomb and roon would bo mode for new tonants.
Of recont years tho practico of cremation was
gainin ir crularit, particularly in tho Naha-
Shuri urun. the ronson being tho profound distasto
of tho modein irls for the tosk of clcaning and scr
ping:hc bonos
THI S ILATERIAL IS NOT TO BE REPRODUCED IN PART OR IN
WHOLE WITHOUT ACKNOWLEDGMENT TO U. S. NAVAL MIL ITARY
GOVERNMENT HEADQLARTET S EDUCATION DEPARTMENT.
-29

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.98)
OKINAWA BACKGROUND INFORNATION
CHAPTER V
GOVERNMENT AND ECONOMY OF THE RYUKYUS
GOVERINMENT:
Prior to tho 15th contury.Okinawa had bocomo
brokon up into throo rival kingdoms. Undor tho King
of Chuzan, howovor, it was unitod into the kingdon
which contimuod until abolishod y tho Japanoso in
1872. During all of this timo tho political framo-
work ramainod much liko that of tho Chinoso stato.
with tho king surroundod by culturod noblos and supportod
by industrious poasants.
Undor tho now Japanoso rulo tho Rru'yu Islands
camo to bo divided into two areas, or profecturos,
for administrativo purposos. Naha. tho capital of
tho Okinawa Prefocturo, was tho. administrativo contor
for all tho islands from Ihoya Jima south. Kagoshima
city in Kyushu, capital city of tho Kagoshina Pro-
facture, has boon tho administrativo ccntor for tho
islands from Yoron Jina north and for tho southorn
part of Kyushu. Normally tho profocturo has boon
tho connocting link botwoon tho Imporial Govornment
and tho local govornment.
The Goyornor. A govornor, appointed by tho
Primo Ministor upon tho rocommondation of tho Ministry
of Homo Affairs, has boon in chargo of each profocturo.
Tho govornors actod both as represontativos of tho
Imporial Govornmont and as tho honds of the local
self-govornmont. In 1940 the govornor of Ckinawa
Profecturo was Fusataro Fuchigami, 47 yoars old,
who had studiod political scionco at Takyo Imporial
Univorsity and had sorvod in various govornmontal
burodus until his appointmont to tho Naha position.
His anmual salary was  4,650. Tho governor had an
administrativo organization consisting of a Dopartmont
of Goneral Affairs, a Dopartmont of Education, a
Dopartmont of Eoonomic Affairs, and a Dopartmont of
Polico.
-30

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.98)
Assembly and Council. The governor was assisted
by an assembly, chiefly of an adisery nature. Members
were elected by and from male citizens, 25 years o1d
or more who had lived in the prefecture for at least
a year. They served without malary, for 4 years. In
1930 the Okinawa Prefectural Assembly had 30 members.
Although the governor could override any decision or
rocommend tion of the assembly, nevertheless the mem-
bors were influential political leaders of the prefe
ture.
Special Government Officcs. Although the profea
tural governmonts, acting for the various ministrios
of the contral government, exercised general supor-
vision over the islands, some ministries had ciroct
jurisdiction over 1sland affairs peculiarly within
their sphcro of interost and maintained separato
offices rosponsible to the Japanese home govornmont.
Thoso includod moteorological observation, judicial
affairs, prison affairs, postal affairs, taxos and
oustoms, agriculture and forestry, communications and
war.
Civil Sorvice Systom. In 1939 thero woro roportod
a proximatoly 1,500 civil sorvico omployees in tho
Okinawa Prefocturo. "Rank" had a particularly strong
meaning in tho Japanoso Civil Sorvice System. carrying
noarly as much importanco as in military affairs.
There woro four major classos of Civil Sorvico offi-
cials: Shinnin, Oholunin, Sonin, and Hannin, in ordor
of rank. Tho Shianin wero the top ministors, rospon-
siblo to tho Emporor, and they received from ¥ 5,800
to ¥ 9.600 per annum, plus cortain servico allowances.
Tho Dhokunin wero tho buroau diroctors, vico-ministers
and prefoctural govornor and thoy roceived from ¥ 4,650
to Y 6, 200 per yoar. Tho Sonin comprisod the buroau
socrotarios, soction chiofs, and othor of intcrmodiato
status. Thoy woro appointod from among graduatos of
tho Imporial universitios who had obtained Ph.D.
degrees and had passed the examination for highor
civil sorvice. Salarics rangod from ¥ 900 to ¥ 4,050.
Officials of tho Hannin or clerical rank woro tho "on
dinary" civil servants and thoir salaries ranged from
¥480 to ¥ 1,920 per yoar.
Positions in tho civil sorvico systom carriod both
i31-

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.98)
prostige and power. Employees of high rank commonly
"pulled thoir rank" on thoso of intormodiato grade who
in turn "pulled thoir rank" on thoso of low grade.
Shi (City) Administration. The two most donsely
populated aroas of tho islands, Naha (population 65.
765 in 1940) and Shuri (populat1on 17,537 in 1940).
both on Okinawa; had boon classifiod as "shi" (citios)
sinc 192l. The Japanose city exorcised a wide variety
of fr.:tions. It proparod and passod a budgot; borrow
od m roy; loviod and collocted taxos and fees; ownod and
manarod electric light, gas, end wator plants and trans-
portation and sowago systoms; built and conducted pri-
mary schools; carried on activitios in the field of
public hcalth; provided care for depondents delin-
quen s, ani dofectives; participated in the centrel
and aivancoment of labor; buiit roads, bridgos and cam
nals; propared lists of totors for cleotions; and col
lected statistics for tho national consus and for agri-
cultural, industrial and labor survoys.
On tho other hand, the city had no jurisdiction
over the police forces within the city or over fire-
fighting, fire provention, and builsing regilations.
for police and public safoty functions were oxorcised
by the prefectural authorities. Moreover, the city
could not go ahoad with important matters without first
consulting with profectural authorities who could
appoint a temporary mayor if they desired. Tho Min-
istor of Home Affairs could evon dissolve tho city
asscmbly if he wished.
City government was in tho hands of a mayor, an
assembly and a council. The mayor was elected by the
assembly for four yoars, usually being an experlenced
burcaucrat from the ranks of higher civil service.
The mayors of Naha and Shuri each received a little
ovor ¥ 2,000 per yoar.
The city assembly (36 members 1n Naha, 30 in Shuri)
was elocted by malo citizens at loast 25 yoars old,
and assomlymen served for four yoars.
Machi (Town) and Mura (Towmship) Adninistration.
Machi and Mura aro the imallest solf-governing units
in the Japanese system of goveriment and are sot up
very much alike. The Ckinawa Profocture had 4 Machi
-32

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.97)
or town political units and 5l Mura or township units.
The political organisation of a town or township
consists of an assombly and a headman, a deputy head-
man, or troasurer, ono or more clerks, and a mumber of
ettlement headmen. Tho assembly consists of 12 to 30
members, dopending on tho sise of tho political unit.
all mombors boing elected by the mon over 25 yoars of
ago. The assembly, in turn, elects most of the offi-
cials, ingluding the hoadman. The hoadman usually
serves a torm of four yoars and ofton is roolocted fer
consecutive terms. Usually tho town and township
assemblymen and headmen served without salary, with
only the treasmurer, the clerks, and a few full-time
minor officials being paid for their work,
Civil Rishte. The natives of the Ryukyus havo
had the simo citisenship rights as the people of Japan
homeland, which usually has meant that the sovare civil
and criminal codes and censorship laws of Japan have
applied to the Ckinawans. Police customarily supervised
innumerable details of day to day life.
Male islanders 25 yoars old or more who had lived
a year in the same city, town or township and otherwirse
wore not disqualified could vote. They elected their
local assemblios as well as delegates to the House of
Representatives of tho Imperial Diet. There was a
fair amount of interost in voting. In a national
olection held in 1936, a total of 62.7 per cent of
oligible-Ckinawan men cast their ballots.
Prior to 1940 the two major political parties of
Japan proper hnd their followers in the Ryukyus but as
a war-time moasuro all political parties were dissolvod
and wore roplaced by tho Imperial Bulo Assistance Asso-
ciation, a government-sponsored organisation along
Fascist linese
LAV AND . JU STI CB:
In tho old days the Ryukyu Islands had a ropute-
tion for peacoful living conditions, and one of the
reasons for. the genoral lack of law breaking may woll
havo been the violent mothods by which the laws were on-
forood. swift and severe punishment, sometimes of the
torture varioty, faced the evil-doer.
一33-

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.98)
Provious to tho war the Ryukyus had continuod
to have a rolatively low crimo rato. Crimes woro
porhaps half as provalent as in Japan propor. Tho most
provalent crimes were thoft, fraud, gambling, ombozzle
ment, and forgery. Crimos of violenco, such as murder,
rape, robbery and arson, wcro infroquont.
Apparontly tho will to livo was strongor in tho
Ryukyus than in Japan also for the suicido rato was
only ono-fourth to ono-third that of Japan. About
throo-fourths of tho suicides woro mon, and hanging was
tho most commonly used mothod.
Police Organization. The importanco of tho police
organization in poo-war profectural administration
cannot bo ovor-amphasizod. The polico road all publi-
cations and suspondod those which thoy found "dotri-
mental to public poaco and ordor." giving thom an iron
hand of consorship. Thoy attendod all public meetings
and could interrupt tho spoaker or stop the proceodings
whenovor thoy boliovod such action dosirable. Their
approval wns requirod for tho formation of a society,
and for the plans of a now building. They published
rogulations for and inspocted the promises of a long
list of businesses, including privato omploymont agen-
cios, printing and ongraving establishmonts, mining
firms, food and liquor stores, inns and restaurants,
bathhouses, theaters and motion picturo houses,
goi sha ostablishmonts and housos of prostitution.
Thoy rigidly controllod the activities of barbors,
butchors, contractors, guides, pawmbrokers, poddlors,
and public socretarios. They mediatod in labor dis
putes, and wero responsiblo for tho provontion and con-
trol of firo. Thoy had'to take monsuros so guard
agninst tho sprond of disoaso, whothor among humans,
animals or plante. Thoy took chargo in omergencios
caused by firos, opidomics, floods, storms, and ox-
plosions. Thoy oven suporvised tho spring and cutumn
houso cloanings of housowives.
Most of tho polico supervision was handlod by tho
profoctural governor through his police chief. Tho
polico chiof had oxtraordinarily groat powor in enforco-
mont and intorprotation of law. In 1935 thoro woro 347
police officors of all ranks in tho Okinawa Profecturo.
Tho salarios were lbw, ranging from only X 480 for
patrolmon to  1.300 for inspectors. Small incontivo
payments ofton woro mado for espocially moritorious
-34-

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.97)
sorvico.
Laws and Courte. For tho groator part, tho rogr
lar laws of Japan wcro in force throughout tho Ryukyus.
Many of thoso originally woro based on Westorn codos.
modifiod lator to meot tho varying conditions of Japan.
Tho Japanoso cririnal codo applied largely to major
crimos. Minor crimos wore undor jurimdiction of polico
officers, including a wide variety of acts for which
punishmont included confinemont for not moro than 30
days or a fine of loss than Y 20. This inoluded such
things as vagrancy, throatening anothor porson, beg-.
ging, falsg advertising to make a profit, making sport
of or obstructing a religious procossion or coromony,
failing to notify tho polico of somoone in nood, disso
minating falge rumors, polluting drinking wator, sub.
jocting omployoos to cruol treatmont, dofiling roli-
gious or public propeity, bohaving indocontly in pub-
.lio, and trospassing in tho fioles of another porson.
Under tho ordinanco powor, a tromondous list of offon
sos had devolopod. Capital punishmont was not common.
PUELIC SAFITY:
Fires heivo not boen a sorious problom among tho
arinawans. Most firo departments woro of a voluntoor
varioty.
Storms aro tho major omorgoncios in tho islands.
From 12 to 45 typhoons affect tho Okinawa rogion oach
yoar, and from threo to six of theso can bo oxpootod
to pass diroctly across tho aroa. Damage usually con-
siste of brekon broakwaters, washod-out roads and
bridges; damagod river ombankmonts and lovoos, damaged
irriation ditchos, wnter mpins and canals, buildings
washod avay, damago duo to landslides and cavo-ins,
and vossols lost at soa.
Dospito largo propoity damago, apparontly tho Oki
nawans know how to protoct themsolves during a storm
for very. doldom is loms of life roportod.
PUBLIO WELFARE:
Sandard of Living. The Ryikyu Island standard of
living is lowest among Japanese areas. Figuros of 1927
ostimatod tho general productive capacity of the islands
-35-

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.98)
at ¥ B0 pcr porson, as contractod with * 219 por
porson in Japan as a vholo. Tho largost, singlo
factor in this situation is tho ovorcwowding of poor
agricultural land which has boon forcod to support
a population which mumborcd 454 porsons por squaro
milo in 1940. Bocmuso of tho povorty many porsons
have loft tho isi ands cach your in soarch of bottor
cconomic conditious. It is ostimatod that as many as
a qunrtor of a million porsons loft tho islands bo
twcon 1920 and 1940.
Tho agricul ture of tho Ryukyus is typical of aroas
in which a majority of tho population is ongagod in
subsistonco farming combincd with tho production of a
singlo cash crop.
Ferming housoholds compriso about 70 parcont of
all housoholds on tho islands, and about 60 por cont
of tho lccding housoholds formorly raisod sugar cano
as tho principal cash crop. Sugar cano, in normal
yoars, yioldod n cash incomo sovoral timos thnt from
woct potatoos, tho main focd crop. Howovor, tho ono
crop systn causcd fluctunting prospority duo to occa
sional bnd roving yoars and dopondonco on world sugar
pricos.
Tho fishing industry in tho Ryukyus has boon on a
soundor basis than ngriculturo, but sinco orly about
four por cont of all housoholds woro ongagod in
fishing its cconomic influonco was not groat. Tho
avorago fishing family usunlly was bottor off than tho
avorago fcrming family.
Poyprty and Roliof. Through both writton and un-
writton law it is tho custom for noody porsons to bo
carod for largoly through assistanco from thoir fami-
lios and noi hbors. liany familios aro aidod by romit
tanccs from moro prosporous rolntivos living in othor
countrios.
Official roliof nid, according to Japanoso law,
vas givon largoly to tho agod poor (ovor 63), to tho
montclly and physically handicappod, to holploss
childron, and impovorishod wemon vho are prognant or
aro mursing infants.
Considorcblo govornmont funds woro oxpondod in tho
-36-

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.90)
Okinawa prcforturo to support travoling modical clinics
which in 1975 trcntod morc than 16,000 porsons.
Scl Tu uce. Voricns typos of govornmont-
sponso in pr: woire (eninon. ircluding Wor
kors Hse, ried Dployees Hoalth In
murcnc. e To Ineuranco, and
Villere Hc!  . uarance.
Unnacrp tiun. Tho uru Islands are not solf
sufficicn  .ber und mu inport much of what they
need. Conrocuontly offorts bave boon a'e for somo
tine  i clutu Sorest owih. Rosponsibi
lity for   purrisior of forect, is vostod in forost
ad. itr icn officcs of the Ministry of Agriculturo
and P veetry:
Afforectation has bcon conducted on a fairly largo
scalc. i: tho a-inawn prerpctie in 1939 thoro were
158. 375 s are vorls of saclbei. in which moro than 3
mil .. soral ro vere boils r. sod. Thoso woro mostly
pine  mnhor.
Afferostation hns been cnccuraged undor a plan
whercty citios, towns and villages could lonse govern-
mont forcst land, cro for it properly, mako plantings.
and rec cive un to 8c por cent of the roturn, the romain-
der coins to tho coverment.
Soll conscrvation has been effected by sotting
apart  ive forests ror that purposo and by pan
ting 1   mbers of cyerds, often on vory stoop
slopes. The groros of cyceas aro very oxtonsive and
fom on the most promincni i tural featuros of tho Ryuk-
yus.
HEALTH AND SANITATION:
Diseasos and Diotary Deficioncios. Tho Ryukyuans
do not onjoy particularly good health.
Ovorcrowding, concral un  rnourd shinent, inoffoo-
tivo sanitary practicos, iil to sowage disposal and
provalonco of disoaso boaring insccts all contributo.
Inpotieo, soabios and ringworm infoctions aro
-37-

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.97)
common. Thoro is somo loprowy.
4
Pulnonary und intostinal-tuboroulo: mogount for
many doaths eaoh yoar.. Influanza, pnoumonia, diph-
thoria, corobra-spinal niningitis, and measlos have all
been roportod as conv.on cmces of death in rocent years.
Shallpox is believed offectively undor control throughe.
out the Ryukyis.
All of tho cammon varieties of vonereal disoasos
aro found in thi Ryukyu with gonorrhca being by far the
most ommon.
Intostina'l disoasos aro among tho more gonoral
types of infostations, including amobic and bacillcry
dysontory, ani diarrhcas.
Cholorn hns boon roportod throughout tho islands
although conditions aro such that it could sproad rap
pidly. Typhoid and paratyphoid fovor occur throughout
tho island. Fuko infostations, which rosult from
cating raw fish, crustaccans, and wator plants, or
from using untrontod wntor fou drinking and bathing.
aro common anong tho nativos.
Worm infostations aro gonoral among tho nativos,
including hookworm, pinworm, roundworm, and tapoworm.
Mosquito-borno disonsos aro connon and aro among
tho most difficult to control. Thoy includo malaria,
filariasis. and donguo fovor. Typhus has occurrod
on sono of tho Ryukyu Islands. Tho body louso and tho
tropical rat floa aro principal sproading agonts.
Hcalth Hazards. Sinco intostinal disoasos aro
sproad chiofly throuh contaminatod food and wator, all
food should bc thoroughly coakod boforo oating. and
water from springs, stroams and wolls should bo pro-
porly troatod. Scrooning agninst flic@ and mosquitoos
is important. Raw moats, fish or wator plantt should
not bo onton sinco they may contain larvao which
causc tapeworn or fluko infostation. Walking barofoot
is hazardous bocauso of tho provalonco of hookworms.
Nativo Modicino. Mostorn nodical thoory and prao
tico has boon adoptod to a largo oxtont among Ryukyuans,
but tho boliof that disonso and illnoss is of super
-38

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.97)
natural origin is still hold to sono dogroo. Tho
practico of driving away ovil spirits is traditional in
the islands and is still followod by priosts and othors
who havo local roputations for spiritual powors.
Modical Sarvicos. According to tho Japnoso
Modical Yoarbook for 1939, thoro woro 247 physicians in
tho Ryukyu Islands, or about 3.5 por 10,000 population
— as comparod to 8.6 physicians por 10,000 in Japan.
Thorc worc about 40 doutists in tho Okinawa Profocturo
at that timo.
A fairly oxtonsivo public hoalth program was
carriod on throughout the Ryukyus, undor suporvision of
tho govornors of tho two profocturos. This inoluded
physical education in tho schools, inspoction of food
and drink, oxamination of prostitutos, otc. Thoro woro
throo profoctural hospitals (one at Iazo and two at
Nahn) and 24 privato hosnitals.
Also, thoro woro 148 doctorst offices with
clinics and abovo-avorago facilitios.
Snnitation. Naha had a wator borno sowago systom
with a'littlo moro than threo milos of pipo, but olso
whore throughout tho island sowago disposal facilitios
gonorally woro crudo and rolativoly inoffoctivo. Most
of tho dwellings had prinitivo outhousos. Gonorally
homo sowago was disposed of bth by using it as for
tilimor and foeding it to pigs.
Thoro soamod to havo been no garbage colloction
sorvico, ovon in tho citios. Roports of Nahn and
Shuri show that in tho twico-a-yoar house cloaning
activitios, tons of dobris wero haulod away.
Thoro woro same rogulations controlling food and
drink but suporvision gonorally was lax and inoffoctivo.
Throughout tho Japanoso Impiro sinco 1937 tho amount
of polish givon rico has boon limitod to 70 por cont
to holp combat vitanin doficiency.
Thoro was polico suporvision ovor wator supplios,
in an offort to koop thom froo of contamination, but
roports indicato thut a roat mumbor of souroos woro
pollutod.
-39-

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.98)
Apparontly liquor was a Stato monopoly throughout
most of tho islands and individuals gonorally woro for
biddon to mako thoir own homo-brow. Thero is ovidonco,
howovor, that the rogulation ofton was ignorod.
EDUCATION AND PROPAGANDA
Informal Iducation. To somo oxtont tho Japanoso
systom of child training was followod in tho Ryukyuse
Paronts bogin to train. thoir childron whilo tho lattor
are vory young, teaching thon to sit quiotly, how to
bow, and ot hor fornal courtosios. At about tho ago of
four, girls and boys bogin to roccivo difforontial
troatmont. A girlis conduct is rigidly proscribod
by convontion and, although sho is not roprovod for
modorato oxprossions of onotion, sho is roquirod to ro-
press any tondoncios toward agrossivonoss and indi-
vidualism. Sho loarns to dofor munbly to any nalo,
no nattor vhat his aco, to oboy and sorvo all uldor
fonalos, and·to help caro for all youngor childron.
A boy has a noro complox adjustmont to mako. Ho con
timues to bo pampcrod by tho famalo mombors of his
family, and loarns thnt by aggrossivo conduct he can
mako thon noot his domands, no mattor how unroasonablo.
At tho sano tino ho discovors that in the malo world,
which is tho world of school and work and all inpon
tant achicvenont, ho must show absoluto obodionco and
complianco to all nalos suporior to hin in ago or sta-
tus, and that any lapso from docorum will bo mot with
sovoro physical punishnont or dovastating mockory.
Ho lcarns to suppross any outward manifostation of
anotion, and to acccpt all situations with stoical
composuroo
Educational Syston. Tho Japdnosc oducational
systen had as its singlè unified goal tho production
of loyal citizons. Ench school was roquirod by
law to possoss photographs of tho inporial fanily which
had to bo kopt in a socuro place and safoguardod, oven
to tho cost of lifo itsolf, Porsonal hygiono, physical
oxorciso, and etudy of tho Japanoso langungo loonod
largo in tho avorago school curriculum.
Tho school systom on Okinawa was under supor
vision of tho Okinawa Profocturo's govornor, who in
turn answorod to tho Ministor of ducation in Tokyo.
-40

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.97)
Tho education systom includod primnry schools,
offoring olomontary oducation for childron of six to
fourtoon yoors, and socondary schools of four typos,
namoly, young pooplo's schools, niddlo schools for
boys, high schools for girls, and vocational schools.
Finally, thoro woro normal schols.
Sphools woro in sossion ovory day oxcopt Sindays
and sano of tho nationnl holidays, and during school
vacntion poriods:
In 1935 tho ol amontary and highor olomontary
schools in tho Ckinawa Profocturo hrd 139 prinoipals
and 2, 285 tonchors, an avorago of ono oducational loe
dor to 42.9 pupils. Sclarios woro about * 50 por nonth
for olomontary toachcrs and about twico that for prin
cipals.
Thoro vas considorablo intorost in vocational
schools, in which tho mibjocts covorod tho fiolds of
industrial or tochnical, aricultural, commorcial,
and navigntion subjoct's.
Thoro was ono public l1brary in Naha in 1940, ho
ving 24,654 volunos.
Propaganda and Consorship. Tho officail Japanoso
propaganda policy in tho Riukyus was tho sano as that
for tho rcst of tho Empiro, omphasizing national ovor
local lpyaltios and ongondoring boliof in and support
of tho "Japanoso Spirit" and the "Imporial Way," tho
lattor boing tho world mission of Japan to sproad tho
bonovolont rulo of tho Enporor to loss onlightonod
nations. Tho donocracios worc picturod as boing
groody and arrogant and standing in tho way of Japan's
"just aspirations in Groator East Asia."
Consorship in tho islands was tho ano as in tho
honoland, which monnt that conmuniontions woro subjoot
to official intorcoption and oxanination Publications
hod to conform to rogulations forbidding printing of
anything which is "injurious to public penco or good
moruls." Discussions of tho Imporial Houso or of tho
nilitary command woro strictly forbiddon, although
criticism of lowor govornmont londors and of local
politicions was pormittod in poacotimo. Nowspapors
sont proofs of thoir issuos to tho local polico by
-41

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.97)
way of ccnsorship.
Visitors to tho islands had to rogister with tho
polico, answor long quostionnairos, and ronain undor
coneral and sonctinos closo survoillanco during thoir
stay.
COMMUNICATIONS:
Post Officos. Naha had tho only first-class post
offico in thc Rukyus. Thorc woro soveral socond-class
post officcs, and inuncrablo third-class post officos
scattcrod throughout tho islands, noarly cvory town-
ship having ono or more on idorablo naii was handlod
by tho systan. Tho stand.rd ostal rato for lottors to
any part of tho Japanoso apiro was threo son. Lottors
to oth:r countrics roquired a postago of 20 son.
Tolcphono, Tclortaph and Cablo. Tolophono facili
tics oisted boforc tho war in tho najority of settlo
nonts having poss officos. Sonotinos the post offico
also was thc tclopiono torminal, tolograph station
and radio station.
In 1936 ahcrc wcrc 27 tolophono státions oporating
in tho Okinawa Profccturo and nearly 1,00 tolophono
subscribers wero listed. It is bolicved that this
number lhad noarly doublod boforo the war bogan. A
najority of tho subscribers woro basinoss housos and
officos. Tolcphonos werc not connonly found in pri-
vato hones.
Most of tho post officos woro oçuippod with tolo
graph scrvicc, ofton through a combination of ovorhood
wiros and subnarino cablos. Most of tho largor islands,
including Okinawn worc connocted with ono anothor as
woll as with tho Japanoso nainland by subnarino cablo
Radio. All rodio broadcasting throughout Japan
propor was undor control of tho Japan Broadcasting
Association, a soni-official agoncy suporvisod by
tho Ministry of Conmunications. Thoro woro 7 "koy
stations" and 37""rolcy" or sub-stations. of tho two
relay stations in tho Ryukyus, ono was locatod at
Naha, tho othor boing on ono of tho northorn islands.
Radio Naha, ostablishod in 1942, opcrated on a fro
quoncy of 1,000 kilocyclos with a power of 1,000
-42-

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.96)
watts and had tho cnll lottors JOAP. Tho station vas
on tho air from 6 o'clock in tho norming until 10 o
clock at night. About 90 por cont of its progrons
woro robroadcnst fron tho Japanoso koy stations. Tho
prograns could not havo boon.vory livoly, according to
Ancrican standards, sinco around 45 por cont of tho
tino was dovotod to propaganda nows, 18 por cont to
locturcs, lçss thnn 8 por cont to music, and tho ronain-
dor to miscollanoous foaturos.
In Japan it was nocossary to havo a liconso in
ordor to opcrrto a rocciving sot. In 1940 only 1,127
porsons in all tho Ryukyu Islnnds had obtainod licon-
acs for having rmdio rocoivors.
Nowspapors. s of l940, six ocrly nowspopors
woro boing publishod in Hnha. In addition thoro woro
six wookly papors and 12 nonthly publicati ons. Sono
papors publishod on tho Japenoso nainland also cir
culntod into tho Ryukyus. Although "froodon of tho
pross" thoorotically was guarantood undor tho Ja-
panoso constitution, actually tho oditors had to bo
vory caroful that thoy printed.
TRAISPORTATION:
Roads and Stroots. On tho mallor ialands, foot-
pathe and cart trails conmonly aro tho only avomos
of land conunication. On tho largor islands, hovavor,
thoro woro fairly woll-dovolopod road systons provious
to tho war. In 1939 tho Okinnwa Profocturo had sono
what noro than 3,000 nilos of ronds and 754 bridgos,
naintainod by national and local govornnonts. Bo
causo of arinawa's rouch intorior, nost of thoso
narrow roads hu sod tho coastlino and did not attonpt
to cross tho ialand oxcopt at tho norrowost plncos.
Nahn and Sheri had woll-dovolopod stroct systons,
oxcooding 1,280 nilos in longthifor tho two citios.
Many strocts woro brond and woll-pavod.
Vohiclos. In 1938 tho Okinaum Profocturo roportod
only 244 autonobilos and approxinatoly 100 bubos: On
tho othor hand, that your's conmus also showod 4,000
carts, 6,000 wagons, 1,000 jinril:ishas, and 7,500
bieyclos. Thoro woro 13 arinawn bus linos cdvoring
504 mil0s.
-43

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.95)
Rnilroads. Thoro woro thrco public railroads
on Okinava, ono a stoan railway having 30 nilcs of
tracks out of Nahn, and tuo horso-draim railways.
ono fron aha to Itonan and tho other fron Yonabaru to
Avmsc. ll vere of tho narrow gaugo varioty. The
Haha stcar: railway was ounod by tho profocture,had
nore then 200 cnployces, 30 passon or cars and 71
frcight cors.
Air Tr nsport. Tho Naha airport was tho najor
conncrcicl cirfisld in tho Ryukyus. Sinco 1936 it
hod bcen uscd as an intcrmcdiato stop in flights
botween Japan and Formosa. Air passongor travel was
lini tod, according to Wostorn standards.
Vater Trensnert. Ono of tho nost conmon vator
craft in the Rwryus roncins the dugout canoc, 20 or
noro foct in lon th and crpnblo of carrying fivo or
six persons. Carpcntcr-built fishing boats aleonaro
connon. Largo nupibers of fi shing creft, many of largo
sizo, woro bascd at Jaha, Itonan and ago.
Stcanship linos connccted tho largor of tho islands
Nahe wns tho largost port on Okinaum. In 1935 a total
of 2,778 vcsscls totaling 493,844 tons callod at Haha.
Beforo the war Nhha was tho only port in tho Ryukyus
designatcd as opon to forcign trado. During 1937,
80,000 stcanship and 72,000 notorboct and sailboat
passon ors pessed throuch tho port of Nahn.
FOOD PRODUCTION:
Agriculturc. Agriculturc is tho principal in-
dustry of thc Ryukyu Islands, and is thc occupation
followed by a largo majority of tho population.
In 1939, for cxnmplc, 89,981 houscholds in tho Okinavm
Prefccturc vorc acricultural -- 73,118 as thoir prine-
ry occupation and 16, 863 as subsidiary activity.
Thesc farn fanilics represontod 75 per cont of all tho
fanilics in thc prefccturc.
In that yoar. 65 por cont of farners tillod land
vhich they owned thensolvos. Tho oxtont of tonancy
was tho lovest on Orinawe of any Japanoso Profocturo.
Individual farns, in conoral, are very small. In
1939 tho avormg fam housohold worked only 1.6 acros
of cultivat d land in tho arinawa Profocturo. In that
yoar it was roported thnt 25 por cont of tho total
- 44 -

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.85)
hand in Ckinawe Prefocture was under cultivation,
15,494 acres being irrigated and 131,881 acres being
dry-land farmed.
Farming Methods. Although horses and oxen often
are used to pl a light plv. most of Okinawa's oul
tivet r ie cco by nni e soil ueually is pre
per vi  oa udoord ooe Yery littlo
con le ni cmrey is il u e. Ldicative of tho ro
ta c! : i tor, n 1s53 census showed Ckinawa
Profectcre to have pe tractors, rotary mumps, or power
dri  ror,r r mil ing machinos, and to
ma..
 machr 5 wht btowr
3 muc r.: f met poo to flour. 3 fertilizer mixoro.
6 mr s for cruchi  rlissr, aa in aldition
somo sociel cgp ch fo: suga. ton, and tcxtilo
mamfa.ri,
Fort Ir3 cre scosary vhrughout the Ryukyus
in order  u ic s vicid trer tho emall
plose  ll. oy le fortillirs are animal and
mun ro c eps, od coxicriel fertilisor.
Before the war, irlivlac motcokcids orier would
spond s 7s  mire er yoar in buylng tortilizers.
Ir.igntion js corlinod imost exelusively to the
cultivotlon of rice ishsiy roro than 10 per cont
of. c inavn Yrreecuc's cltiveted land wes irrigated.
Irr ratc: us Ly is nccompli sucd ry broadoning a
stren hl, aas, es tho water omergos irom the hill
causing is to flow ir a sori s  cuscados fron one
lovoi to tno noxt lovor ovor low grass-covorod ambanko
monts whicn do not roadily wash away.
Crriso Okinawa's throo most important crops in
rocont ars vere ewoos potetocs, sucar cane, and rico.
in that crter. yoet pototoer and wloo aro srown
larty ior fuii nd  ccl usc. Sugar ceno was
gro wn as thc rricipl cuch crep.
Abut bolf of artaa's cultivatod Jand was dovoted
to swcct poia cos, onot fanlly attomptins to grow
onoush or its awe use, he piart s sho staplo food
of both mon cad drmos ic animals. ond aiso wae used
in mururac  ring lpohor pa i ricre t ts cultivated
in slr picu orpooily on ptatos und tho gentler
siopeo  hills, rui is imsluablo bocmeo of it
wide utalit a ts abilliy to rosiat winde and d
dreeg t. fve crops commoni ro rovm cuelh your.
Birjo the tubo: 's do sot koup woll thoy of ton are
gratod or cut into mall piocos for drying. They
-45

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.95)
arc caten boilod, and ofton aro sorvod cold. In 1939,
an akinawa Profccture, 638,758 tons of weet potatoow
scrvod oold. In 1949, an Orinawa Profecturo, 638, 758
tons of woct potctuos wore rown on 76.481 acres of
land.
Sugar co is rown in rows on snall plots.
rarcly more vn on ero in stre. Tho cane maturos
aftor a year an cun bo cut fo throe succossive
yorrs boiere  planling is rrqul-ed. When harvested
it is stripped (f its loavos. larlicd. in tundlos.
and transport,! so the srali mills whore crido
suger is cxtricte, ugur ceic ves rown on approd
matuly one fc th of the cuitivatod acrongo. Okinawa
Prefoctuc, 1n 1939, grow 1,193, 255 tons, valued
at ¥ 14,100,(35.
Tho pri cipel corcal crop is rico, which ranks
next to swoc: pot atoes and sugar cano in inportance
The Ryikyis ow only one-third enough rice for thoir
own uso and custontarily importod largo quantitios
each year, cspecially from Koroa and Formosa. Most of
the rice ron on Okinawa is raisod in the northern
part of tho island whoro irrigation waters como
down from thc hills. Two crops commonly are grown each
your on Oki:uva: with tho paddles allowod to lio
fallcw thc sccod soason of altorncto yoars. Bo-
forc tho war, rico was grown on approximately 40
por cont of Oinawa faims, each devoting an ave
rago of hlf n ncre to the crop. The cost of
product:on vas officially cstimatod in 1937 at 
3 per bushcl, and tho avcrage yiold in 1939 was
31 bushols per acro.
Much sn?"r quantities of wheat, millet and
barley are irowm.
Vogotatlos arc raised to a limited extent,
the most impo ant boing boans, poas, cabbagos.
tomatoos, ccumbors, squash, watermolons, and
root cnsis. Aimost tho olily fruit tree of any im-
portanco on Ckinawa is a dwart orango.
Silk production, through raising mul berries
and groving cocoons, has beon of minor importanco
in tho Ckinava Prefocturo, although it has beon
a major industry in some of tho ielands farthor
north. Tho toxtilo banana is grown for its fibers
which aro used in woaving cloth. Tea is grown to
-46-

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.93)
c. limitod oxton': and naarly overy family has a
small path of  tcco for homo use.
Livestoc!. Por: accounts for noarly 80 por
cont of the valuo of all moat produced in the is
lands. Boof is sccond. goat moat third. and
horso meat fourth.
Most of tho Okinawn housoholds raisod chi-
cons, although they gonorally had fower than 10
birds each. Tho rypical farming houschold koops
ono or noro hogs and throo or four goats, as woll
as a fow chickons, in tho courtyard bohind tho
housc. If sufficicntly prosperous, tho family also
has a horsc or cow, used as a draft animal. Most
of thollivestock is of inforior quality and could
stax consicerablo improving.
Fi shing Fisning is not of outstanding im-
portancc in tho Ryu'-u cconomy Agriculture, food
proccssing, and the textilo industry all outrank
it in tho acinawa Prefocture, with rospect to valuo
of products and mumber of porsons oneagod. In 1939
a total of 125 fnirly largo fishing boats, with
crows totalling 1, 701, oporated out of Okinawa
Profocturc. In nddition a largo munbor of small
fishing craft oporotod from tho various coastal
villagos. The official governmont policy was to
oncourage te fishing industry whorover possible.
through insuranco, subsidios, and fishory oxpori-
montal stations.
INDUSTRY:
Corrics. Durinc tho 17th contury the cora-
mich art, imported from Koron and China, was
hichly dovclopod in tho Rrukyu Islands, ospocially
in tho Nhiv- Suri area. Fine porcolains with high
monochcnc clazing or brightly paintod dosig
were nuced. Modcrn pottery, howovor, has been
infurnon, civing riso to gaudy dosicns and utili-
tarion pottory such as large wator jars,cooking
pots, ad funeral urns, all for local consumption.
Root  io, and p po. beth af (lay md cocr to.
arl sles co atso vore mede ca koracao In
195 J9 we a1y 100 s 01 rs on
oa vt erarou in maduve r rte
-47-

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.98)
Lncquerwar! The Ryukyus have long been
famous for thoir lacquerware. Its durability and
brilliant red color wero said to result from using
pigs blood as one of its ingrodients. In 1938,
Okinawa Profecturc had B27 lacquor factories, am-
ploying 546 workers and producing itoms largoly
for export to Japan.
Wickerwork. Ryukyu artisans also have produo
ced a amall anount of wickerware, dhiofly from bam-
boo. Tho mamufacturod articles were largoly in
the naturo of baskets and houselhold furnituro.
Textile Manufacture. The textile industry in
tho Ryukyus has beon socondary only to tho sugar
industry in importanco. It flourishod in tho 1920's,
only to tapor off by about two-thirds in recont
years. Silk, panama-typo hats, linon cloth mado
from banana fibor, rush mats, and cot ton cloth
account for most of such products. In tho most
casos, toxtilo mamifacturo was carried on as a
houschold industry although wero a few largor os
tablimhmonts around Naha.
Tho silk industry, which once flouri shod tn
throughout tho Ryukyus, suffored hoavily in rocont
yoars from compotition with cheap machino-mado
matorials from Japan, as well as lawe holding
down the price of tho high quality spocialty silks
which camo from theso islands. Ckinawa produced
some silk but the isbands to the north were far
greater producers.
Building Trades. Ryukyu stono masons arc con
sidered to be especially export. Walls of coral
stono camonted with lime are genorally considered
botter than those found in Japan propor. Indivil
dual farmors and fishornon normally build their own
huts, but city houses aro usually constructod by
specialtsts. In 1930 there were 2,615 persons in
the Okinawa Prefecturo whoso chiof occupation was
listed as construetion and civil ongineoring.
Housobuilding in the islands is largely fin-
ancod by cooperntive associations. In 1930, 120
housos woro built in tho Ckinawa Prefecturo by
menbers of 15 housing associations, at an avorago
-48-

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.97)
cost af  2,055 per building
Busar Industry. Sugar cane and mamufacture of
sugar were introduced in 1623, but until 1838 mugar
production in the Ryukyus was negligible. Snco
that timo production has increasod rapidly and un
til boforo tho war the principal cammercial cmmp.
In l939 the Okinawa Prefocture sugar cano crop
amountod to moro than ono million tons, valuod at
¥14,100,685.
Most of tho cane was procossod in small local
sugar mills as an individual or cooporativo ontor
priso. The stalks wore crushod, and tho fuice
convortod into crudo brown sugar by boiling and
drying. Thore woro about 10,000 much primitive
mills in Ckinawa Profocturo in l939. In addition
thoro wero a few largo commoreial rofineries
which"rofinod sugar for oxport.
Liquor Production. Shochu, a whi akoy distil
lod from swaot potatoos, is producod throughout
tho Ryukyus but a moro inportant alcoholic product
is "awamori." a whiskoy mado from rico. Tho lattor
is tho traditional nativo drink and has boon mamu-
factured foe centurtos. The centor of its produc-
tion originally was at Smuril Horo many familios
skillod in tho art mado rice whiskoy as a principal
moane of livolihood. Prinitive mothods gonorally
woro used. Swamp rico was soakod, mixed with a
spocies of mushroom which was baliovod to assist
in convorting the rico starch to sugar, and spread
out on mats in warm rooms. Tho mixturo then wont
into a largo earthonwaro vat with yoast and water,
and allowed to ferment. Aftor fermontation was com-
ploted,tho liquid was drawm off and distilled, and
the mash was fod to hogs. The liquor had a high
alcoholic contont and usually was diluted with
wator boforo being drunk. In' 1934 the Ckinawa Pro-
focturo roported mamufacture of nearly two million
gallons of rice whimkeye Most of the liquor pro-
duced in the islands was conmmod locally, though
somo was oxported to Japan wharo it was highly
prizod for its distinetivo flavor.

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.98)
OKINAWA BACKGROUND INFORMATION
CHAPTER VI
PLACES OF INTEREST ON OKINAWA
Boforc taking that bont rido homo, ovory
man in uniform ought to turn tourist and bocome
familiar with tho two or throo dozon points of
spocial intorost on tho island. Ono of the most.
officiont mothods of socing tho ights is to fol-
low out tho planned tours sponsorcd by OBASCOM
Spocial Sorvico. Four of such tours have boon char
ted on maps. Theso maps aro available to unit
Spocial Sorvice reprcsentatives. Tho tours vary
from 2 to 4 hours in longth and cover a total of
22 points of interest.
Following arc somo of the main points of in
torost on Okinawa, as organizod under the Special
Sorvice tour prorram:
ITINERARY "A" (4 hrs)
1. Futcna Shrinc. This is an anciont
Shinto shrino ldoat od in a large cavc, stalac
tites hanging from its lime stono coiling. Noar
by is a Buddhist tomplo constructod around 1450,
some years boforo Columbus came to the Americas.
Tho spot is considered sacred to Futcma Gongon.
guardian spirit of voyagors. Tho shrino is across
tho highway fron the Daily Okinawan printing
plant, once the home of Yank magazine.
2. Kakazu Ridgo. It was at Kakazu Ridgo
that tho 96th Infantry Division ran into tho
bittorost fighting in tho ontiro campaign. This
battle ragcd for 17 days with the.Japanoso using
more artillory and mortar firo than over before
onc ountorod in tho Pacific. During the fight for
this ridgo tho 96th Division oblitoratod part of
tho 63rd Japanoso Brigade and olomonts of the 62nd
Japanoso Division, killing 4,663.
3. Maoda Eacaromont (Hacksaw Ridgo). The
Maoda Escarpmont, bottor known as Hacksaw Ridgo or
Hill 156, was tho scono of bittor fighting. The
96th Division fought here for fivo days, being
:50-

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.97)
roliovod at loss than 50 por cent strongth by the
77th Division on 30 April 1945. Tho 77th contimued
tho assault until 6 May whon ontrancos to tho elabo-
rate fortificaticns had been sealod. Hundreds of
planes had pounded the ridge and artillery hed
blasted it incossantly. Maments of our foroes had
gainod tho crost of the hill again and agaim, only
to bo thrown back by withering enomy fire from the
othor sido of the ridgo. Hundreds of onemy troops
wore soalod in thoir cavo fortressos as mon of the
77th pourod thousands of gallons of gasolino into
tho forts and ignitod it with TNT.  total of
2,507 Japancso wore killed at tho Ridgo.
4. Chocolato Drop Hill. This erodod pramon
tory is a principal landmark in tho backyard of tho
25th Roplaccnent Dopot. Rusting hulks of U.S.
tanks dotting tho surrounding landscape are mute
testimony to offectivonoss of enemy land mines
and anti-tank firo. as tho 77th Division pushed ac-
ross difficult Chocolato Drop Hill to hit Shuri
from tho North.
5. Sugar Lof Hill. Hero, north of Naha and
on tho right flank of the Smuri Lino. the Marines
fought thoir first major battle of the campaien
with tho capturo of Sugar Loaf Hill, followad
by movin: into the hoavily mined city of Naha.
From Naha tho lst Marines were able to shoot a
spearhead into the town of Smuri.
6. Shuri Castle. Snce 1926 a National
Treasure of Japan and site of the kinawan Pre
fectural Shinto Shrine, in honor of Minamoto
Tanetono, semi-legendary Japanese hero. who, cun-
turies ago, supposodly fled to Okinawa after de-
feat in war. Herc his son, Shunten, was the first
king of a unitod Ckinawa. He reigned from 1187
to 1237. During the combat phases of tho campaign.
the 32nd Japaneso Army Headquarters was located
in the caverns beneath the castle.
7. dity of Jahas Before it was blasted
into a heap of. rubbls,'Nahe was the largest city
in the Ryukyu Islands, with an ostimatod population
of around 60.000. It had been the capital of Cki-
nawa Prefocture since 1879. It was largely des
troyed in 10 October bombings in 1944. It was
capturod by the 6th Marine Division on 24 May 1945.
- 日 -

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.96)
8. International Cemetery. Here, near Maha,
are buried 20 visitors from other lands who had
died during by-gone years. Among the grave markers
mte thoce of six American sailors who died aboard
Commodore Perryls flagship while it lay at anchor
in the Port of Naha in the Year 188s.
9. Itom Tuchet. Tho Japanosé descri bed the
action at Iier Pvkat as decisive in their loss
of K  au Riacu is was the first defensive posi-
tion te'en by he Imerican forces on Okinawa.
The  ting bagan on 19 April and on 29 April
1945 'ho Japaruse rouroated to the south, only to
bo discovered and annihilated by the 27th Infantry
Division.
10. 27th Infantry Division-Ialand Command
Cemetery.
ITINERARY "B" (3) hrs)
1. Ishikawa. A nativo village which is used
by Military Government as a "Staging area" in mo
ving natives back to their original homes or to
now home areas.
2. 6th Marine Division Cemotary.
3. Hapushi Beaches. his was the center af
the initial Lindings on Okinawa, on 1 April 1945.
Tho lst ind Eth Marines of the III Amphibious
Corpe larded that morning north of Hagushi, while
the d Merine Dlvlsion lay in fioating reservo.
Simultenoously the 7th and 96th Infantry Divisions
of the XXIv Corps struck south of Hagushi, while the
77th Division remained in floating reserve.
4. 7th Infantry Division Cometery. General
Buckner is among the Army deed who lie in this
cemetery.
5. 77th-96th Infantry Division Cenetery.
6. Tonth Army CP. Hore on 10 September 1945,
Gonoral Stilwell in command, surronder of the
Ryukyus was complotod on the samo spot at Tenth
Army Headqualturs on which the flag was first
raised upon sesuring tho island.
ITINERARY C (a3 hrs)
-53-

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.97)
1. Nakaushuku Castle. A fortified castle built
500 years ago by Gosamaru, liege lord to King Shotai-
kyu. When attacked by Amawari, the disloyal lord of
Katsuren, who had craftily insinuated himself into
royal favor and mined approval of an expedition agai-
nst Nakagusuku, Gosamaru committed suicide rathor
than resist the king's nuthorized agent. The castlo
was captured and razod by Anawnri (1450) and not aftor
werds rebuilt. Amawari himsclf raised an insurroc-
tion a~ainst tho ing a few yoars lator but was dofoo
tod, captured and killod. (Tho Xiv Corps, conmandod
by Maj Gonornl John Rs Hod o; had its cormand post loca-
ted in tho ruins of the cnstlo from 10 April to 15 00
tobor 1945.)
2. Conicnl Hill. Its gapturo on 13 Mny 1945 by
the 96th Infantry Division was considorod to bo tho
rost imortant sin:lo factor in tho collapso of tho
Shuri Line. The copture of this hill oponod tho way
for an onvelopmont of the onemy's right flank.
3. HOB. The Naval Oporating: Baso is tho contor
of U. Navy oporati ons on tho island of Okinnwa.
ITINERARY "D" (3 hrs)
1. Itoman. This famous fishing villago, south of
Naha, was hoavily hit durin: tho war yet sufforod Joss
damaro thar nost citios and towms on Okinawa.
Nativos have moved back in and are repairing and ro-
buildin. :toman is umusual among Ryukyu towns in
that wonen customarily havo oqual rights with mon.
2. Bucknor Memorial. This nemorial narks the
place whcre Lt. Goneral Smon B. Buckner, Jr, was
killed in action by a sholl frarmont, on 18 Juno.
From this OP. to tho wost is Kunishi Ridgo and to the
northoast is Yaoju-Dake Escarpment where, botwoon 10
June and 13 June 1945, remnants of the Jap forcos
mado thoir final stand.
3. Hara-Kiri Hill (Sucide Ridge). At dnwn on
22 Juno 1945 the Comrianding Gonornl of the 32nd Japa-
noso Army, Lt Genoral Ushijima, and his chiof of
staff conmitted hara-kiri just outside of tho ontranco
to tho cavo which thoy had occupiod on the soaward
slopo of what was known as Hill 89.
-53 -

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.96)
ADDITIONAL POINTS OF INTEREST
Machinato Airficld. Machinato Airfiold was cap-
turcd b: thc 27th Infantry Division 28 April 1945. Tho
airficld was protected by onony un positions locatod in
caves and pill boxos. Utilizing modium tanks and solf-
propollcd cannons, our foroos sccured tho liachinato
Airficld in eight hours.
Inha Airficld. On 4 Junc 1945 tho 6th Marino
Division captured approxinatoly ono-half of Hcha Air-
ficld nd the arco northcast of tho field to Nahe Bay.
It was not until 6 June, however, that thc divi sion
ca:plctely overran tho airficld.
Yontan and Kndoan Air Ficlds. The onony nirficlds
at Yonten and Ka onn were tho first to bo capturod by
cur forccs on 1 April 1945. Against 1icht rosistanco
both ficlds were wrested fron the cnony with practi-
colly all installations intact cxcopt for minor dane
cos inflictcd by firo fran our om forcos. on 2 April
1945 construction creus landed and connonced (rading
and fillin portions of tho Yontan strip. ivo Coys
later the north-south runway ws rondy for uso.
Plancs cvacuntcd casualties on 9 April, just cicht
days aftor "L" Day.
Qhuri Tovm. Shuri wastho canital of Qrinava
fron about 1422 until 1879. When tho island bccano
a prefecture of the Japanoso Enpire, Noha becano tho
capital. Shuri fron anciant tincs was tho contor of
Okinauen political and cultural coveloment.
-54-

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.82)
11
VAA

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.95)
8. On 7 Mhy 1947. 001. Tashb
transferred to the United States. Colonel
as District Engineer on 19 May 1947.
II
TRAIF ITION TO CPTF CONTRACTORS
9. The transition of responsibility for military construction fro
commanders to a District Engineer under the Vestern Ocean Division. Corp
Enfincers, involved a complete change of procedure. The use of troop laber
rapi ly ciminished, though not yet entirely discontinued. In lieu thereef.
function- of the Ti-trict Eneine r were to he effectuated through the foroes
n Archit ct-ngineer, for overall planning, de ign, and inspection, and of
n r:l onir tor, for onstru tion. The construction equipment previously
tilin by troons  s in liree part been taken over by the District for use by
contractor "orcc; unplier previously vailale for troop use have in part
n a cured y t rirtrict, but have of necessity been extensively supplemented
crom a tic.
hi proeram,
ore of the
itr1t 1nr. 
nerai ontractor,
i un er con tru tion t  mp Kue, on route lo. 1 near junction with route No. 20.
s of July 19l7. this camp i~ occupied by approximately 2200 persons in the
construction forces; an it is nticipated that Camp Boone vill be evacuated.
and Camp Kuc occupied by a total of approximately 280o persons. during September
147. Camp Kue. in addition to quarters an messing facilities, is provided with
all necessar' construction fucilities, uch as shops, warehouses, motor pool.
storag" an equ ipment yards, laboratories, etc. and an administration building.
11. To suppl ment the  ork of American forces, native Ryukyuan laber. in
e cess of five thousan? persons, is be ing emploved. A large native camp, Camp
Futem, is under con-truction adjacent to the Post of Sukiran, and when complote
:ill house appro imately three thousand natives. Since many of these natives
re no" bein/ transported daily betveen their homes and the various vork sites.
the completion of Camp utema in the near future  ill creatly reduce the prosent
henvy tranportation load, n nd considerably to their efficiency.
III
ORGANIZATION
12. The Okinava Engineer District is a civilian organization exeept for
a total of eight officers, serving as District Engineer, Executive Officer.
Executive Assistant for Engineering and Supply. Executive Assistant for Operatie
etc. The present authorized civilian strength of the District is approximately
two hundred, comprising necessary engineering and construction technicians, and
personnel for fiscal, udit, ~upply, mmnagement, and administrative functions.
rith required clerical assistance.
13. The construction technicians of the aistrict are closely related to
the construction program being carried formard by the General Contractor, whil
engineering technicians are similarly associated with the funotions of the
Architect-Engineer. The other divisions are necessary to maintain requirt
ment controls of costs, disbursements. peyrolls, protection and
equipemt, ota.

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.92)
WAR DEPARTIENT
CORPS OF ENGINEERS
OFFICE OF THE DISTRICT ENGINEER
OKINATA DIBTRICT
APO P31-?, CAN FRAJCICCO, CALIFORNIA
INEORMATION BULLETIN
21 JULY '1947

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.96)
1. This Informtion Bullatin ir prepered 
with the mission, structure and program of the Okinave
of Engineers, U.s. Army.
2. The Okinawa Engineer Distriit is one of four such distrieto
jurisdiction of the Divinion Tn ineer: "esc en Ccean Division, Corpe of
U.S. Army. The office of the Tivision Engineer, Western Gceun Divisicn.
estab!i-hed at Causalito, California. The other districts are establi
the Honolulu Engineer Fistrict, the Guam Engineer District, and the Mems
minuer District.
3. The Okinava Engineer District "as authorized by The Secretary or
on 12 Pecember 19'5, an establiahed under General Order No. 2, Offico 
of ngineers, 18 Tebruary 1946. The territory of this District inoludes 
the islands of the Rukyus Archipeligo lying betreen Tormosa on the south
and Honshu on the north enst The approximate range of this archipelago
24 to 30 degrees north latitude, an' from 12 to 191 Pegrees east longituo
The Headquarters of the iatrict are located on the island of Okiname, hses
is practically at th goographical center of the District.
4. Th: asri ne mis-ion o' th District is to accomplish the approved
Department program in the Pyukyus Islan'e, an' to carry out certain other
spon-ibilities of the Chi f o Engineers in this area.
5. During the months betreen the final surrender of Japanese forces 
Okinava ane the pring of 1946, an extensive program of military construots
and Tapanese pri-oners of war. Among the projects undertaken were: roads.
guneration an transmigsion, mater supply, severage disposal, housing, 
facilities, 'arehouging, shops, laun'ry, airfields and ansociated faciliti
communicntions, oil storage, and man' others. Construction for military
merts, together ith necessar' demolition and some reconstruction, were und
takon to the full capacity of available man-porer, materials and equipment. 
very large part of the cons truction no visible upon Okinawa vas the produetos
this tpe of activity.
6. V'ar Depa"tment Circular No. 114. 18 April 1946, transferred to tho 
of Engineers, U.S. Arm', responsibility for over eas construction, with corte
erc:ptions, as of 1 July 1946, or earlier if so determined in the theatre. 
Circular implemented the authorizations mentioned above.
7. Under the troop labor program, the Staff Engineer of the Okinawa Be
Commmnd, Colonel Lee B. ashbourne, CE, had ?irocted military construction.
the Island for the Commmnd ing General. By General Order No. 49,' 10 April 
Colonel 'a-hhourne was a~signer as District Engineer., Okinawa Distriet, in
aldition to his duties as Staff Engineer, OBAsCO! (later RYkOM). Ho funet
in dual capacity until ? October 1946, vhen the functions were separated.
27 July 1946, the office of the District Engineor ras ostablirhed at 0
Boone, on route No. 1 near Machinato.

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.96)
11
TRAIF ITION TO CPIT CONTRACTORS
9. The transition of responsibility for military construction fre
commanders to a District Engineer under the Festern Ocean Division. Cos
Engincers, involved a complete change of procedure. The use of troop lat
rapi'ly diminished, though not yet entirely discontinued. In liou th
functions of the Di-trict Eneine:r were to he effectuated through the
an Architect-Engineer, for overall planning, design, and inspection,
Gen:ral Contractor, for construction. The construction equipment pr
utilized by troops has in large part been taken over by the Distriet for
contractor forces; supplie previously availarle for troop'use have in
heen secured by the District, but have of necessity been extensively oup
by purchases from stateside.
10. To provide for the greatly enlarged forces required by this pro
far beyond the capacit of Camp Boone, a consolidated camp for the forees
District Engineer, of the Architect-Enpineer, and of the General Contrester
is un er con-truction at Camp Kue, on route No. 1 near junction with remto
s of July 1947, this camp i- occupied by approximtely 2200 persons in
construction forces; an it is anticipated that Camp Boone will be emouated
and Camp Kue occupiod by a total of approximately 2800 persons, during Sep
1947. Camp Kue, in addition to quarters an messing facilities, is provide
all necessary construction fucilities, such as shops, warehouses, moter pool.
storage an equipment yards, laboratories, etc. and an administration builai
11. To suppl ment the "ork of American forces, native Ryukyuan labes
Futem, is under con-truction adjacent to the Post of Sukiran, and whem
ill house appro imately three thousand natives. Since many of these mativen
are nor bein/ transported daily between their homes and the various work i
the completion of Camp Futema in the near future rill greatly reduce the
heavy transportation load, an ad? considerably to their efficieney.
III
ORGANIZATION
12. The Okinava Engineer District is a civilian organization exeept for
a total of eight officers, serving as District Engineer, Executive Officer
Executive Assistant for Engineering and Supply, Executive Assistant for or
etc. The present authorized civilian strength of the District is approxi
two hundred, comprising necessary engineering and construction technicion
personnel for fiscal, vudit, -upply, mmnagement, and administrative fumet
ith required clerical assistance.
13. The construction techniciams of the "istrict are closely rel
the comstruction program being carried formard by the General
aring techniciane are similarly associated with

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.98)
plus-fized-fee besis were approved by the
District Engineer.
IV - CPFF .CONTRACTORS
15. Upon the recomendation of the Chief of Engineers, U.s. Arw
the Secretary of War approved two contracts on 12 June 1946. The fis
of Holmes and Narver, Los Angeles, California, vas engaged to furnish
all architect-angineer services. The Guy F. Atkinson Company and J. .
Construction Company was engaged as general contractor.
16. During July 1946, bo th contractors sent representatives to Olime
to make reconnaissance inspections of the Island, its terrain, formatione
and other engineering and construction factors; of the available supplies.
materials, equiprent and facilities; and of the proposed plans and progrem
for military construction. The rchitect-Engineer was fortunate in being
able to find and save from loss or destruction, certain Japanese control
survey data developed during the previous regime. This proved of som velmo
in basic surveys, although all data have required checking and correetion.
The General Contractor anticipated the availability of military construetion
equipment in substantial volume; however it was found in due course that
much equipment required extensive rehabilitation, and had to be supplempnted
from other sources.
17. The American civilian forces of both contractors moved to the
Island in increasing numbers during the latter half of 1946, and during
1947 vill reach a maximum of approximately 2600 for the General Contreetor
and 20o for the Architect-Engineer. Correspondingly the program of survoye
planning and design, and of construction, moved into full eotivity.
V - CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
18. In general, the presently authorized construction program involves
provision of facilities and services required by the occupation foroes.
Apart from some preliminary planning, little activity other than road work
has been undertaken by the District to rehabilitate civil facilities.
19. The military construction program is set up for convenience es
either interim, that is temporary construction, or as typhoon-proof oon-
struction having a longer anticipated use expectancy.
20. The latter type of construction is under mmy at the Suldren
etc. for use by ground forces, and at the Kadena Army Air Base, compmimss
runways, lighting, and appertenant facilities for the air foroes.
3

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.97)
Amons the interim
37th station Hospital, housing for mil
warehousing and storage facilities, utilities, rod
and other recreational services, harbor improvements
22. Tor the total approved program, the expenditure ofp
thirty-one million dollars has been authorized, and all approved
be completed by 31 December 1947. A considerable proportion of th
of necessity be expended in the United States for supplies and peeial
ment not available in the theatre.
23. Prcliminary planning for additional construction is well advanoed.
but funds for same have not been authorized. It is not at present knoum what
construction program vill be carried forvard after completion of work now
ir. progrcss.
JAIES L. CREEN
Colonel, Corps of Encineers
Di-trict Engineer

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF
FAR EAST
SUMNATION No. 10
UNITED STATES ARMY
MILITARY GOVERNMENT
ACT 1V IT IES
in the
RYUKYUS
FOR THE MONTH OF
AUGUST
1947
Reports Control Symbol, QSRS-03

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.97)
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF
FAR EAST
Number 10
hugust 1947
TABLE OE CONT EN T S
Page.
PART I
GENRAL
1
Section l. Political Activities
Section 2. Econonic Activities
Section 3. Social ctivities
P.RT II
POLITICAL
2
Section l, Government and Politics,
. .3.
Section 2. Legal and Public Safety.
. 6
PIRT III ECONOLIC
13
Section 1. Natural Resources .
.14
Section 2. Commerce and Industry
. 18
Section 3. Finance. .
.29
P.RT IV
SOCLL
32
Section l. Public Health and Vielfare
..33
Section 2. Education and Culture
.38

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.98)
COLMANDER-IN-CHTEF
FAR EAST
SULMUTION
OF
UNITED STATES ARMY
LILIT.RY GOVERNL.ENT
CTIVITIES
in the
RYUKYUS
Number 10
August 1947
PART I
Section l. Political ctivities
Section 2. Economic Activities
Section 3. Social Activities
(This part will be written by
Statistical and Reports Section,
GHQ, SC.P.)
-1-

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.97)
COIMANDIR-IN-CHIEF
FAR EnST
SUMTION
OF
UNITED STATES ARNY
ILIT.RY GOVERNMENT
A.CTIVITIES
in the
RYUKYUS
Number 10
Lugust 1947
P.RT II
POLITICAL
Page
Section 1. Government and Politics
Section 2. Legel and Public afety
-2-

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.97)
SECTION 1
GOVET.NEIT D POLITICS
CONTENTS
I aragraph
Govornnont....
1
Politics.
5
COVE HENT
Special Iroclanations, Diroctivos and Crders
L. United States Hilitary Govornnent Special Troclanation 18, entitlod
"orkmen's Conpensation Clains", was issued on 6 ugust 1947. Its purpose
is to provido worknon's conponsation benofits to insured Iyukyuan enployees
of United Statos nilitary installations or agencies in the Tyukyue.
United States ilitary Government Special Troclamation "21 vent 
effect on 1 August 1947, amending Proclamation 11. It extends the use of !
E  ilitary Yen as legal tender currency aong the people of the Ryukyus,
2. Military Government Directives submitted to Ckinawan Civilian Admini.
traticn during August were as follows:
(1) 1G Directite #34 is change #1 to HG Directive "26 dated 24 Ju
1947, "Commercial and Financial Transactions in Okinawa Gunto".
(2) NG Directive "35, "Establishment of an Okinawan Bus System".
(3) HG Directive /36, "Changes in HG Directive 17 Vithholding Ta:
(4) NG Directive "37, "Porkmen's Cempensation Claims".
(5) MG Directive 38, "Trocedure for the Operation of Central
Subsistence Parehouse".
(6) MG Directive 20 is change #3 to MG Directive 20 dated 1
December 1946, "Addition of Occupational Class1fication
to NG Directive 20, dated 1December 1946".
3. The folloving lilitary Government Directives, Northern Ryukyus Island
were promulgated during August:
(1) HG Directives 1947-36 and 39 providing for confiscation
and dispositicn of certain black-market ships.
-3-

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.99)
(2) MG Directive 1947-33, promulgated on 28 July, provides
for procedure in handling of "Japanese Vessels Entering
Water, Harbors, or Ports South of Thirty Degrees North
Latitude, Without Authorisation".
(3) IMG Directive 1947-34, "Manufacture of Sake".
(4) MG Directive 1947-35, "Maximum Price List #3".
(5) MG Directive 1947-37, "Maximum Price List #4".
(6) MG Directive 1947-38, "Amendments to Price and Wage Contro.
Reguletions".
4. The Provisional Government, Northern Ryukyus, issued the follovin?
regulations or orders during August:
(1) Provisional Government Traveling Expenses.
(2) Regulations on Cultivation of Rice, Barley, Cereals, an
Sweet Potatoes.
(3) Registration of Srine.
(4)
Gathering of Seeds of Rice, Barley, Cereals and Sweet
Potatoes.
(5) Partial Revision of Tax Regulations.
(6) Registration of Cattle.
(7) Regulations on Construction of Sampans.
(8) Examination of Probationary Judge and Counsels.
POLIT ICS
5. Tvo political parties have been activated on Okinara. The Okinawan
Peoples Party vhich might be considered the labor party and the Okinawan
Democracy Union vhich could be considered the conservative party.
The objectives of the Okinavan Democracy Union aro to secure
democratization in politics, economics, society, culture and education on
Okinawa. The Union shall carry on all activities necessary to accomplish
these objectives.
The principles of the Okinawan People's Party arettorrepresenttthe
interests of all the vorking people such as laborers, farmers, fisherman,
selaried men, small tradesmen and small mamufacturers, and to fight all
feudalistic conservatisms and reactions in accordance with the spirit of the
Potsdam Declaration, and to establish democracy in political, social and
-4-

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.96)
cultural fields during the restoration of Okinawan self-government.
6. No organized political parties exist in the Northern Ryukyus and
there are no indications that any parties are being formed.
-5-

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.99)
SECTION 2
LEGAL AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Legal
Public Safety
LEGAL
Courte
1. The Civilian Courts tried two hundred and ten cases in Okinarar:
Gunto during August. Most of these dealt vith petty larceny, blackmarket-
ing, traffic violations and violations of fish and game laws.
2. The Magistrate Courts, which try misdemeanor cases, commenced
to function in Okinawa Gunto on 25 August 1947.
3. The Supreme Board of Justice in the Northern Ryukyus has promul-
gated and published orders #5 and #6 which provide and set up certain
standards and a definate procedure for qualification, examination and appoir
ment of Civilian Judges, Public Procurators, and Attorneys who would be
permitted to practige in the civilian courts.
The Supreme Board of Justice on 5 August submitted a rcquest for
the expansion of the Civilian Court system in the Northern Ryukyus. It was
recommended that a Court of Appeals composed of a Chief Judge and two
Associate Judges be eetablished who would have jurisdiction over all
appeals from the Civilian District Courts. It was further recommended
that four additional district courts be established to be known as the Koniy
Tokunoshima, Erabu and Kikai District Courts.
4. Of the 22 cases tried by the Civilian Court in the Northern Ryukyus
during August, 12 cases were in violation of the National Mobilisation Law;
two each of larceny, fraud and assault; one each for forgery, trespass,
cruel and inhuman conduct and possession and use of dangerous weapons.
litary Courts
5. The Military Government Courts on Okinawa Gunto tried seventy-five
cases during the month of August. Of this mumber, 33 were tried by the
Superior Provost Court and 42 were tried by the Summary Provost Court.
Most cases deult with petty larcery, wrongful possession of proporty,
blackmarketing and prostitution.
6. The Superior Provost Court of the Northern Ryukyus Tried a total
of 15 gases during August which involved 77 persons for violation of Mil-
itary Government Proclamations. The majority of these cases concerned ships
-6-

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.99)
involved in Black-market activities. A total of 76 persons were conviotes
sentenced and one porfon was acquitted and discharged. Six ships were
confiscated and ¥ 126,500.00 were levied in fines.
The Summary Provost Court tried 2 cases involving five persons who
vere convicted and sentenced. Four fines were imposed for a total of 15,500.
Citizenship Claims
7. Five new claims to American citizenship vere filad by Okinawans and 1
claims vere further progessed.
Fares have been collected and passports processed for 38 Okinawan
Americans who are to be repatriated to the United States and Hawaii in Soptemi
L'arriages
8. Sixty- three marriages woro performed in the Legal Department by the
local registrar with the assistance of the Vice Consul from Yokohama.
(1) Fifty-threo marriages betveen Nisei-Amcricans and Okinawans.
(2) Eight marriages betwoen Caucasian Americans and Okinawans.
(3) One marriage botweon Nisei-Americans
(4) One marriage between Negro Amcrican and Okinavan
PUBLIC SAFETY
Paragraph
Law and Order.
Polico
16
Prisons
17
Accidents.
22
.26
Fire.
Law and Order
9. A "Racket Squad" has been organized to investigate alleged corrupt
practices on the part of certain officials of the Okinavan Civilian Adminls-
tration. Personnel of tho squad report diroctly to the Polico Commissioner
and are authorised to conduct investigatiors anyrhere on Okinawa Gunto. An
investigation of the Transportation Section of the Okinawan
-7-

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.98)
Civilian Administration rasulted in tho arrests and indictments of a
soction chiof and sovoral of his assistents for bribory extortion or
othor corrupt prccticos,
Sovoral othor officials of tho Oklnavan Civilian dministrction
voro also arrostod by tho "Racket Squad" for allogod corruption in offico
including tho .ssistent Diroctor of Fishorios and several rction board
hoads in t ddition to tho prosidents ind managers of various privato indus-
tries.
10. Tho Itonan district is tho contor of Okinawan black-markot
rctivitios. Locnl police havo mado numerous crroste during tho past six
months nd have brokon up soveral rings of blackmarketoers cnd smugglers.
Tho Comnissioner of tho Okinaian Polico Dopartment reports that tho
Racket Squad has arrested tho loader vho proved to be a residont of Liyak
Southorn Ryukyus. The brotking up of tho black-market ring in tho Itoman
District is oxpected to result in a tomporcry curb of these activities.
11, In tho Northern Ryukyus thoro has boon a small increcse in black~
markot activitios during tho month. Tho majority of ships which vore ap
prohondod camo from tho Japanoso main islands. Although tho Civilian Poli.
cro mcking a splondid effort in guarding cgoinn: thoso cctivitics, thoy c:
still soverely handicippod by tho lack of dcqucto vcter transportation.
12. . total of 615 arrosts voro made in Okinaue Gunto including juv-
onilo offonders. This is cn incroaso of moro than 25; ovor the procoding
manth. in cnclysis of tho figurcs for tho two months revoals that a Icrge
porcontcgo of tho incrocse in crrosts vas for treffic violations. This
was tho rosult of the curront drivo for stricter onforcemont of tho traffic
rogulations by both civilian cnd military polico authoritios to cut down tn.
high uccidont rcto. rrests for larcony which constitutod tho bulk of tho
crimos showcd & slight incrouse. Juvonilo offondors rcmeinod fairly con-
stant with the procoding months.
ESTS IN OXIN.. GUNTO
July
Adults
Larcony
176
I.anslaughter.
3
Injury.
3
Rccoiving stolon goods.
15
Intorfering vith police
1
Illogal posscssion of U.S. curroncy
1
Illcgal ontry (black-merket ship)
12
rson..
1
Iapo.
1
Prostitution.
22
Traffic Violations.
128
Lopors arrostod .
7
Bertoring with imoricans.
5
Trosspassing into Military Roscrvation.
5
Illegal possossion of U.S. Govornnont proporty 16
Illogal possossion of oxplosivos and firoarms 4
-8-

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.98)
Violation of fishing regulations
10
Gambling.
58
Illegal manufacture of sake
2
Curfew violation.
3
Fraud. .
3
Violation of ceiling prices.
65
Total
541
Juveriles
Larceny.
50
Trosspassing into military reservation.
Illogal possession of U.S. Goverrmont Property. . 3
Illegal possession of oxplosives and firoarms . . 2
Curfew violation.
Rape.
lanslaughter.
Recoiving and selling stolon goods.
Total
74
ARRESTS IN NORTHERN RYUKYUS
ugust
Arrests
Larcony .
.58
Violation against MG Proclamations and Directives 7
Assoult
Fraud
.25
Extortion
Juvenile Delinquents.
Others.
.19
Total
125
13 The Economic Control Soction of the O'Shima Polico Department has in-
vestigated 47 cases involving 103 persons for violation of ceiling prices.
Twenty-three of thoso casos involving 59 persons wero considered petty or firr
offonders and the persons concorned were dismissed with an admonition. Twenty
cases involving 29 persons are under furthor investigation and four cases in-
volving 15 persons vere found guilty and punished accordingly.
14 Tvo cases of manslaughter and one suicide wore reported by tho Civ-
ilian Polico Department this month. A women resident of Tokuncshima strangled
her two minorohildren and then committod suicide by hanging herself.
- 9-

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.98)
Illogal Entry
15. In tho Northorn Ryukyus, nino porsons havo boen convieted
illogal ontry and sontoncod accordingly. Fourtoon othor persons ere
ing trial and 5 nov cssos aro undor invostigation.
POLICE
16. In tho Northern Ryukyus a conforanco is callod onco a wook by
the Civilian Polico Dopartmunt. Employoos sre acquainted vith all now
la:s, ordors and directives, thoir applicstion and manner of onforoomont.
An invostigation involving sevon policomon as made and complet-
cd in thc Tokunoshima Polico District. Thoy woro found guilty of malfes-
ancc in offico and dcrcliction of duty and voro punished accordingly.
A special crime provontion program is now in operation and is
yiolding setisfactory rosults. Police training is still being continuod
nd its activitics arc constantly boing incrcasod.
PRISONS
17. Prison populations at tho cnd of August aro shown in tho figurcs
bolow:
PRISON POPULATION
25 August
Okinawa Contral Prison
. 308 (1 juvenilo)
Branch Prisons
82 (2 juvonilcs)
O-Shima Prison
104
18. In Okinaven Prisons, 161 malos and 21 femalos aro scrving son-
toncos undor six months, 13l malus and 9 fomales are serving sontoncos of
six months to ono ycar and 85 malos and 3 fomalos arc sorving sontoncos of
over ono yeer. Thesc figuros ere teken from the roport of 25 July.
Of tho 104 convicts in tho O-Shima prison, Northorn Ryukyus, fivo
aro fomalus.
À prison porsonnol treining program is in full swing in tho North-
orn Ryukyus. Prisonors aro put to nork on various tasks dopending on their
particular skills. Many uscful commodities havo bcen thus manufacturod.
19. Sanitary conditions aro collont in the prisons. On Okinawa,
a now vetor tank is boing installed at the Machar: Branch prison and a cloan-
up vas madc in tho Chinen Branch prison.
20. A routino inspection of tho Chinon Branch uncovered cortain
deficioncies as a rosult of which two prisoncrs oscaped. The Chicf of
the Chinen Branch was dismissod from the job. All other omployoos and
prisoners cre movod to tho Contral Prison. In the future the buildings
and grounds of this prison will be used to house only the juvenile prisoners:
-10-

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.98)
21. During August women from the Venereal Disease Ward of Chimem
were taken to the Kosa Hospital for treatment. The mumber of women in
ward will be cut down rapidly as they are treated and pronounced non-infentio:
The small childron belonging to the prostitutes were tumed over
to the Welfare Department to be placed in tho orphanages.
ACCUDENTS
22. During July on Okinawa Gunto, a total of 53 accidonts of all kinds
resulted in 26 decths and 44 injuries. Theso totals reflect and increase
over the preceding month.
(1) Thirteen accidents from explosives killed nine people
and injured six,
(2) Twonty-one traffic accidents killed nine poople and
injured 21.
(3) Fourtcen accidents from poison by alcohol causcd 1 death
and injured 17.
(4) Five deaths werc caused by drowning.
Bonb Disposal
23. The Okinavan Civilian Polica working with the 226th Ordnance
asc Depot Bomb Disposal Team are continuing to dispose of all bombs
and other cxplosives located in areas where they constitutc a menace
to military and native installations.
The proposed sitc for thc new Shuri hospital was located in an
old Japanesc minc field, waking native laborers reluctant to work in the
area. A report was nade to the Staff Enginecr Rykon vith a request that the
area bo clcarcd. On 25 August the Connanding Officer of the 556th Engineer
Servicc Battalion roported that the area had been cloared of all mines.
24. Thc nunber of firearns and explosives found and disposed of
during July in Okinawa Gunto:
Weapons.
3
Sholls
.290
Bullcts
.1,526
Misccllancous
455
Total
2,274
Traffic Control
25. In the Northern Ryukyus, an intensive program of Traffic Safety
has beon initiated. All motor vehicles are being inspected for nechanical
defects that could possibly affect rhe safety of passengers and operators.
Roads aro being inspected and repaired in sone districts.
- 11 -

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.98)
FIRES
26. Several small fires occured in Okinawa Gunto during August.
There vas no loss of life. Total monetary losses amounted to ¥4,450.00.
-12-

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.98)
DOMMANDER-IN-CHIEF
FAR EAST
SUMATION
OF
UNITED STATES ARMY
MILITANY GOVERNMENT
ACTIVITIES
in the
RYUKYUS
Number 10
August 1947
PART III
ECONONIC
Page
Section 1. Natural Resources
. 14
Section 2. Commerce and Industry
.18
Section 3. Finance
.29
-13-

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.99)
SECTION 1
NATURAL RESOURCES
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Agriculture
1
Fisheries
7
Forestry
11
Mining
16
AGRICULTURE
Food Production
1. The estimated rice harvest for July in Okinawa Gunto totaled
1,758,080 pounds and 12,922,740 pounds of sweet potatoes were produced.
2. The following food production figures are reported for July in
the Northern Ryukyus in pounds:
Sweet Potatoes
3,952,000
Rice e/
2,541,000
Cercals
48,000
Vegotables
392,000
Meat
49,000
 This figure includes 212,200 pounds of seed to be used for the
second crop.
Ryukyus Rice Production and Land Reclamation Authority
3. The Ryukyus Rice Authority assumed control of the Hentona, Okinawa,
cocaine farm for reclamation purposes. After reclamation is completed the
land will be turned over to farmers for the production of food crops.
Nago Experimental Station
4. At the Nago Experimental Station on Okinawa experiments are being
made in pruning tea bushes, the relationship of the size of the tea bush
to the yield, silk production methods and rice production methods.
Livestock
5. The table below shows the animal population of Okinawa Shima at the
end of July and the gain for the month of July.
-14-

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.99)
Present
Population
Importe a/
Birthe
Deathe
Gain
Cattle
2,525
364
40
14
390
Horses
2,555
0
7
2
5
Swine
14,341
265
1,200
240
1,225
Goats
9,283
0
170
20
150
Poultry
36,996
0
2,100
670
1,430
Fortilizer
6. A total of 2,13l,900 pounds of fertilizer was distributed to the
farmors of the Northern Ryukyus through the local agriculture associations.
FISHERIES
Fish Landings
7. Reported fish catch in Okinawa Gunto for August showed an increase
of 229,655 pounds over the month of July 1947 and an increase of 379,407 ove.
the month of August 1946. The gain is attributod to the recont rise in
the price of fish and increased efforts to curb blackmarket activities, re-
sulting in the sale through logal channels of a larger amount of the fish
catch,
FISH CATCH - OKINAA GUNTO
August
(in pounds)
Bonito
512,776
Tuna
24,707
Swordfish
31,337
Sea Broam
15,829
Squid
54,838
Gurukun
26,326
Shark
95,943
Machi
4,452
Flying Fish
6,908
Lobster
1,093
Other Typos
68,418
Total
842,627
Fich landings in the Northern Ryukyus totaled 405,212 pounds for
the month of July.
Dried Bonito Production
8. The reported dried bonito production for July in the Northern
Ryukyus total 22,269 pounds.
-15-

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.98)
Lishing Boate
9. A total of 128 pomerod boats and 1,659 cenoes aro in operation as
fishing boats in Okinawa Gunto, The Cxinawa Beat Building and Repair Yard
at Toguchi comploted major repairs on 38 ongines and 10 hulls during the
month,
In the Northern Ryukyus 42 powerod hoats and 1,278 non-powered
boats aro being oporated for fishing purposes.
Rosidont Inspectors
10. At their regular monthly meeting the Resident Inspectors of Ckinawa
Gunto discussed improvemont in methods of collection end distribution of fish
and shells by the lccal fishing associations.
FORESTRY
Forostry Productior
11. A total of 24.00c board feet of lumber, 4: cubic foet of firewood
and 96; bags of charcoul vere produced in government-owmed forests in the
Northorn Ryukyus during August.
Iriomote Timber and Lorging Froject
12, During August 2.275 logs totaling 459,227 board feot vero cut in the
uppor Nakara vuiley on Iriomote, Logging continues at Sonai and 350 logs
are being loaded on an LST from the boach at Shirahama. Of this total 2C0
logs will go to Miyako for rebuilding tho leper colony and 150 will go to
the Cushikava sawmill on Ckinawa to bo usod in the rehabilitation program.
13. On 28 August a typhoon hit Iriomoto vith winds of from 30 to 40
miles per hour, increasing to 70 miles per hour on 29 August. No injurios
to pursonnel or loss or damago to installations more sustained.
14. The foundation for tho residont quartors is complete and ground
plans are laid for a camp infirmary.
15. The training of native riggers and donkey enginoers is progressing
slowly. Tho training of the stovedores, who wore sent to Iriomote on
16 August after a short training period at Brorm Beach, Kuba Saki, Okinawa,
is progressing satisfactorily.
MINING
Daitos Phosphate Project
16. Military Govornment's re-ostablishment of the phosphate mining
operations on Kita Daito was brought to a successful conclusion vith the turn…
over of the projeot to the native government on tho island. The aggregato
dryor has been installod and ropairs to the storage bin are largely completed.
This will make it possible to continue shipment of the 7,500 metric tons of
phosphate ore to Japan each month.
-16-

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.97)
show the following resuits:
Guano on Yokiato Jima
5.38.7%
Phosphoric Acid
Organic matter (nitrogon,
carbon, hydrogen)
12.375%
Silicie Acid
80.20%
Potassium, Iron
1.00%
Oro on Kodakara Jima
83.7%
Sulphuric Calcium
503%
Cypsum
11.00%
Anhydrous Silicic Acid
Earth in Kuchinoshima
37.6%
Oxide of Alminium
21.5
Inhydrous Silicic Acid
40.6%
Bypsun
Travertin on Okierabu
97.8%
Carbonate of lime
2.2%
Inhydrous Silicic Acid
-17-

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.99)
SECTION 2
COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY
CONTENTS
Paragraph
Industry
Trensportation
17
Communications
24
Labor
34
Imports and Exports.
39
Rationing and Price Control.
42
INDUSTRY
1. Tventy-one new industries were licensed in Okinawa Gunto during
August bringing the total of licensed industrios in that area to 289. of
theso newly licensed industrics there are five rice cloaning concerns, five
iron works, two voodworks, two sho repair concerns, two souvenir factories,
one geta factory, ono stationery factory, one manufacturer of scales, ono
flour mill andono limo plant.
2. Of tho 300 Yamar Diesel onginas imported from Japan in July, 93
vero mado available to Okinavan industries. They vill be distributed as
follows:
Iron Borks
11
Casting "orks
9
Yood "orks
34
Tile and Brick Factories
Pottory Industrios
1
Miso & Soyu Factorios
2
Food Procossing Factories 17
Lacquorvare Factorios
2
Button Making Factories
6
Others
4
Of the other onginos roccivod, 152 voro allottod to the Dopartment of Agri-
culture of the Okinawan Civilian Administration to bo allocated vhore
needed; 2 vont to the Department of Fisheries; 28 to tho Northern Ryukyus
and 25 to tho Southorn Ryukyus.
-18-

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.98)
3. During August the Okinawan Gift Shops were put: on a yen basis.
Purchases had been made proviously with Military Payment Certifioates.
The stores will be staffed entiroly by natives under the new system. Gross
salos for the shops amounted to ¥ 127,788.50 for the month of August.
Production
4. Metalworking production figures for Okinawa Gunto remained at
nearly the sumo lovel during Lugust as during July with a slight increase
in production of pots and pans. Machine ropairs, mainly conversion and
renovation of equipmont, totaled 1,090.
METILARE PRODUCTION
hugust
Farm Tools
1,886 each
Other Tools (Knives,chisels,planes
hammers, saw blades)
6,895 each
Pots and Pans a/
2,464 oach
Rice pots of one-half gallon end one gallon capacity and
cooking pans of one-half gallon, one gallon and ono and one-
half gallon capacity.
5. Production figuros roceived from tmo brick and tile factories in
Okinawn Gunto shored that 30,600 picces of old style Okinnwan tile, 3,100
picces of now tilo and 38,400 bricks vere manufactured during lugust. The
Inrgo incrense is attributed to tho fact that moro transportation was
aveilablo during the month to haul fuel and clay.
6. Manufrcture of two now food products ns reported during hugust.
1. total of 528 pounds of fish pasto (similar to anchovy paste) and 528
pounds of sprghetti wero produced. Approximatoly 712.4 bushels of rice wore
cleaned and 1591.2 bushels of flour were milled. The decrease in the
amount of flour milled is due to the fact that no wheet was harvested during
the month. Salt production decreased because of lack of transportation to
haul firowood to the salt fields.
FOOD PROCESSING
August
Salt
15,328 Pounds
Hiso
10,000 Pounds
Soyu
2,640 Gallons
Sako
735 Gallons
7. Figures on pottory production cre shorm in the table below.
POTTERY PRODUCTION
August
Rice Bowls
3,720
Toa Cups
590
Tea Bowls
1,724
Tea Pots
300
Flower Vases 
110
-19

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.94)
Ash Trays g/
220
Jars, largo
1,465
Jars, small
50
3
Itums made for sal3 to occupation porsonnol through
tho Okin: an Gift Shops.
. "ood orking production accreus d bucaus of the continuing
shorte u of lumber.
"OODORIING PRODUCTION
ugust
Schocl Dusks
600
School Stoole
610
Of ice Desks
23
Ofic. Chairs
70
Gotes
475 pr
Lumber g/
153,240 board foot
at aving liachines
4
Tho lumb r is cut for individuals fron lors urnish d hy
thom. The preduction fi ure is lik. ly to vary poatly
from month to month for this r ason.
9. A total of s04 shoo ropcirs are mad end 281 shoos vere roformed.
"he lattor oporation consists of rumodelin, American shous to fit the
sm.1l r Okinaun foot.
10. Production of  danhe grus souvenir items for the Okinaven Gift
Shons contirued. oat s 1ling ituns vere the 1, 017 hats and 710 gless
holdors. Duriny August 94 ni c. s of hamhoo furnitur., manufectur.d in tho
orth rn Ryukyus, ! r. a nt to Okinava for scle in th Okinawan Gif+ Shops.
jl. a slipht inerens occurred in th. r portud nenufacturu of floor
mats in Okinava unto vith a total of 120 for .ugust. Production is gructor
ct this time of vor ' ccuse of the cvailability of ricc strev cnd "voo"
grass, both of uhich tre us d in mukt'ng mats.
Euildinz sturicls
12. Lime ash produced in Olina Gunto totaled 11,996 pounds. Sand-
stono totaling 2,400 cu ic fot s cut.
13. Rock drillin; oquipmont including drills, comprossor nd approximat
1, Ooo bits s shipped to Okina rom tho Daitos to  utilizod by tho
ILinatogca Sendstone Guarry in Southorn Okinaw..
Building Construction
14. Approximatoly 1,643 profatricut d homes mero complutud in Okinava
Gunto in August. Fiftoon primary school buildings end four high school
-20-

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.96)
dormitorios voro constructod. Nino quonsots to bo usod for sohool
huildings voro croctod. Fivo mura storos and fivu polico stations woro
constructod. Ono hundrud forty ballot boxos Wero constructod to ho used
in tho forthcominz Okinawan oloctions.
Electric Power
15. Tho total cluctric outout in kilovttt hours for mugust on
Ovinev unto  s 368,455. The gonerators, c1l di sul or zasolino driven,
s rve ratien dumps, pullic vorks install tions, motor pools, iron nd
vood vorks and other public or large privato conc rns.
16. Infermation on clectric powor consumod in tho l'orthorn Ryukyus
is not .vail:l. Cf tho tvonty-ono districts in tho Forthorn Ryilyus,
ton hav:  n l ctrificd. Tho tahlo helow gives somo information on
supply of lectricity in tho Northorn Ryukyus.
lil s of high tunsion vire
82
I il s of low tension viro
22
To. homs using loctric nover
9,349
lo. homes using motors
64
No. luctric motors in us
75
"o. hom s usi"? ,lectricity for heat
219
TR. NSPOPTATION
"ator Transpcrtation
17. Thor re 20 Iilitary Government vosnols mployed in Ryukyus
int risland distrihution of civilian food, ho vy cquinment, mcdical supolics,
POL (potroloum, oil and lubricaents) and rulk oil.
INTERISL.ND C.RGO "ISTPT UTION
August
Carzo (short tons)
No. Passonzors
Northorn Ryukyus
1,980
112
Southorn Ryukyus
2,970
172
Daitos
270
159
Irionot
590
Totcl
5,810
443
A total of 10,O00 gallons of bulk oil Vis d livorod by LST to tho orthorn
Ryukyus and 76,28C gallons voro shippod to tho Southorn Ryukyus.
Broakdoun of Vos uls
18. Two Military Govornmont FS vossols verc daadlinod for poriods of
ono vock oach for onzino ropairs.
-21-

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.99)
Curront Nativo Shippine in tho Northern Ryukyus
19. The four interisland runs, made by the Kanato Maru, transported
68 passengers and 927 tons of cargo.
Repair Facilities
20. Shipyard repair and dry docking facilities in Naze, Amami O-Shima,
which are capable of accommodating boats up to 50 tons, have not been
utilized to their full capacity because of the lack of rew materials and
hardvare. At present the yards are making minor repairs with locally
produced materials.
Land Transportation
21. A total of 53 cargo trucks and one ambulance were received from ti.
Surplus Property Officer, Efghth Army. Twelve of the trucks were turned
over to the Ordnance Depot for the use of military organizations on Okinawa
and the remainder will be utilized by the Okinavan Civilien Administration.
Thirty-five of the trucks were processed and put into operation during the
month.
22. The new Okinavan bus system, knon as OBusco, vrent into operatio.
on 18 August charging fares of ¥ .30 per mile. Sixteen of the 20 buses a
in operation every day covoring an average of 1,515 miles per day.
During tho 12 days of operation in August a total of 18, 744 passengers mas
carried and ¥ 108,516.65 in fares were collected.
23. Approximately 26,955 short tons of cargo were hauled during August
in Okinava Gunto. A total of 635 persons were moved in the resettlement
progran.
CARGO HAULED BY TRUCK - OKINAA
(short tons)
Type of Cargo
Tonnage
Water Transportation
7,210
Agriculture
6,803
Commerce
196
Fisheries
1,134
Industry
400
Food, clothing and fuel
7,835
Medical Supplies
238
Public Works
Road Maintenance
2,500
Building Matorials
5,336
Ammunition
315
Personal Baggage
184
Soven of the ten 2-ton trucks operated by the Northern Ryukyus
Provisional Government were in operation during August traveling a total
of 5,360 miles. Passengers carried mumbered 4,315 bringing in a revemue
-22-

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.99)
of : 6,382. Tons of freight carried totaled 1,715 with a reveme of
¥ 13,757.
COMMULICATIONS
Postal Communications
24. Regular or ordinary mail of Okinnwan origin for Ryukyuan
addressees totcled 25,022 pieces and parcels numbered 506, Local Northern
Ryukyus regular mail delivered in July amounted to 46,648 pieces and parcels
totaled 412,
Ryukyuan interisland meil delivered totaled 762 piecesesf regular
mail. The Ryukyus sent 11,799 pieccs of regular mail to foreign countries
and received 14, 958 pieces of regular mail and 7 parcels from foreign
countries.
25. Postal revenue for Okinavwa Gunto tataled ¥ 14,206.65 in August.
The corrected figure for Okinava Gunto postal revemue for July is
¥12,390.05.
26. The monthly magazine on Okinawe, The English Student's Companio
was given a rating as third class mail matter.
27. Twenty-five persons are employed in the Postal Affairs Section of
the Okinawan Civilian Administration and 265 persons are employed in
Okinava's mura post offices.
Telephone and Telegraph
28. New telephone exchange offices were opened at Ogimi and Kunigami
on Northern Okinawn. They are tied into the island system by circuits
from Nago.
29. Telephone exchanges on Okinawa operate from 0700 to 1730
seven days a week. A night duty system for typhoon warning was put into
effect during August.
30. A tatal of 10,218 long distance telephone calls were made during
August in Okinawe Gunto. In July 21,396 long distance calls were made in
the Northern Ryukyus.
31. Six officials of the Department of Communications, Okinavan
Civilian Administration went to Naze, Amami O-Shima, to make a survey of
electrical communications to determine what equipment and upplies are
needed.
32. In July 4,702 domestic telegrams were sent in the Northern Ryukyus,
1,921 were dispatched to Japan and 1,949 were received from Japan.
33. The Wire Communication Department of Okinawan Civilien Adminis-
tration employs 77 persons, the telephone exchanges employ 15 and
telephone subscribers number 197.
-23-

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.96)
LBOR
Lahor Suryoy
34. Tho numbur of porsons omployud by military units on Okinawa was
34, o2 for the month of ugust, showing an incroasc of 1,799 ovor tho
33,1? omploy d during the pr coding month and an incroaso of 31,864 ovor
th: 3,118 porsons gainfully omployed during tho month of Autust jo46.
Suv ntv-one percent of thos: orsons onnloyod by military units in august
19/7 :r ur1. Tho total numbor of Okinowans guinfully omoloyod as
207,/03. Un.rnloynent on Okinava ruechod a n  low during tho month with
only 5,075 persons unomoloyod .s compar d with the ,773 porsons unomployed
during July. 0f t is numbor 3,583 aro unskillod fomalos.
35. Ric. harv. sting on Okinava during tho month causod hsontooism
of Okinaun labor us high as 60 norcont in some casos. By 10 August this
finure vs ducro scd to an average of 30 porcont a day and continurd to
decroase s the month passed and harvestiny v s comploted in certein arots.
36. Unumnloymint rolls in tho Northorn Ryukyus in July show'd a total
of c,233 unomployed porsons. Tho groct iscropency betuoon tho Juno and
July fizur s is du to incomploto r porting during Juno.
RE ORTED ULFLOY ET - HORTLERF RYIUYUS
July
Skillod L borers
?42
Unskilled Lahorcrs
7,871
Clorks
510
37. Chan. 2 to ilitary Gov rnmont Momorandum o.  bocumo offcctive
duriny au :ust. It is an cdministrativo chango concerning tho acccunting
for do uctions of retions : nd the systom of cccounts of rations on hand at
the cnd of +h: nonth.
38. Tho "orlm n's Compensation Act, uhich applius to persons umployed
by United States Govornmont units, s mudo offcctive on 6 August.
IUPORTS .D EXPORTS
Intorislond Trado
39. Comroditi s imported to Okinar. Gunto fro othur suctions of tho
Ryukyus are shour in tho tablo b low.
Commodity
Exporter
Qucntity
Calvos
". Ryukyus
205 hosd
Cattlo
I'. Ryukyus
187 h.ad
Dried Bonito
N. Ryukyus
7,325 pounds
Dri d "onito
Miyako
5,443 pounds
Tamagai Sholls 
S. Ryukyus
27,700pounds
Hirosogai Shclls 
S. Ryukyus
23,500 pounds
Takescgei Sholls 
S. Ryukyus
3,800 pounds
 To ho oxportod to Japan to bo used in meking poarl buttons.
-24-

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.99)
Ecreign Trade
40. Avaiting export to Japan are 52 metric tons of Tamagai shell, 13
metric tons of Hirosegai shell and 26 metric tons of Takasegai shell.
41. Received from Japan vere 1,333,400 pounds of super phosphate
and 1,000,000 pounds of ammonium sulphate.
RATIONING AND PRICE CONTROL
Subsistence
42. Of the subsistence consumed in the Ryukyus in August, 52,5 per
cent was produced by the Ryukyuans themselves with the remainder being
supplied by Military Government. This constitutes a deerease of 9.3
percent over the amount of imported foods supplied last month.
43. The following native products listed in pounds were released for
distribution in the Ryukyus in July:
Sweet Potatoes
24,023,100
C T
751,534
Rice
1,722,969
Fish
3,661,277
Vegetables
1,329,780
The increase in rice results from the harvesting being carried on at this
time. The increase in the amount of fish distributed is attributed to the
fact that the fishing season is nor at its peak. The distribution of
cereals increased because a large amount had been held in resorve in the
Northern Ryukyus for distribution in July.
44. A total of 17,355,740 pounds of flour vas received from the
United States and distributed as follows:
Northern Ryukyus
2,200,000 pounds
Southern Ryukyus
2,298,240 pounds
Subsistencearehouse
12,857,500 pounds
(Okinana)
45. ith the exception of 41,202 pounds sent to Iriomote no dry
provisions or canned goods were shippod to the Northern and Southern
Ryukyus because no shipping was available. A total of 2,121,324 pounds
was distributed to Okinana Gunto during August.
46. Subsistence supplies in the amounts showm were on hand on
1 August stored at the locations noted:
-25-

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.99)
Location
Calories an Hand
Subsistence Warehouse
(Tengan-formerly NOB)
25,340,954,411
36
Southern Ryukyus
1,138,833,436
20
Civilian Depots on Okinawa
229.637.082
b
Total
26,709,424,929
37 (All Ryukyrus)
Calories were not computed on the 1,792,224 pounds of foodstuffs that
were received in the Northern Ryukyus just prior to 1 August.
47. The calories on hand at the main Ryukyuan supply warehouse at
Tengan on Okinawa on 1 August are broken down into the following food-
stuffs:
Starches
19,806,996,432
Proteins
1,736,996,711
Sugar
2,821,902,216
011
69,909,612
Milk, evaporated
905,149,440
Salt, which has no caloric value, totaled 1,661,658 pounds on hand.
48. As a result of the fine wecther during the rice season just past
the quota set for the government-controlled rice surrender program in the
Northern Ryukyus for the 1947 summer crop is 26 percent above that of the
previous year. The surrender quota amounts to 677,160 pounds for the
season.
49. Estimated food production in the Northern Ryukyus for the next
three months is shown in the table below.
ESTIMATED FOOD PRODUCTION - NORTHERN RYUKYUS
(in pounds)
September
October
November
Rice 
1,941,925
1,525,798
1,387,089
Sweet Potatoes
9,096,000
13,944,000
12,300,000
Cereals
160,000
68,000
46,000
Vegetables
617,000
319,000
412,000
Fish
231,000
206,000
148,000
Meat
10,000
12.000
12.000
Total
12,055,925
16,074,798
14,805,089
Produced in previous months and now available for distribution.
-26-

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.96)
50. Estimato ood roquiromonts in tho Northo Ryukyus for
throo months aro showm in th: tablo bolow.
CSTD!ATED FOOD REQUIREMENT3 - NORTHERN RYUKYUS
(in pounds)
onth
Total
Homc
Supplomontal Food
Requiremonts
Production
Roquisitioned
Septembor
14,006,172
12,055,925
1,950,24
Octoher
17,36,196
16,074,798
1,761,38
Fov rbor
16,747,132
14,805,09
1,942,043
51. A mura storc s constructed in tho Iilitary Governmont Compound
ar n on Orinaa for th bonefit of Ckinawan laborors living in compounds at
: ilitary Govurnment nd th. Buckmorville Dopendont Housing Aron.
Trade Goods
52. Trade goods for sale in tho mura storos and goneral items for
us. in th
civilicn supply progrem  ro distributed uring tho month as
shoun.
Itom
Okinava Gunto
.Ryukyus
S. Ryulyus
Stction ry Supplis
Papur
12,220 rms
252 rms
0
: imuograph ink
50 cans
10 crns
0
I-k
457 htls
400 btls
0
Office Supnlius (oras rs,
unvelones, pcncils, otc.)
46,452 ch
2,620 cch
0
Wouring apparol
Clothing
1,420oach
0
0
Shous
109 prs
0
0
Glovos
25 prs
0
0
Yard Goods
200 yds
0
0
Bodding
Cots, canvas
10,662 oach
0
5,848 cach
Blankots
1,000cach
0
0
Shoots
1,404ach
0
0
Tobacco
Smoking Tohacco
12,074 pkgs
4,260 pkgs
3,932 pkgs
Cigarotto Paper
120,60 pkzs
43,200 pkgs
43,200 pkgs
Pipe Cloaners
60,000 pkgs
10,058 pkgs
14,100 pkgs
Miscollancous
Toilot Goods (soap, shaving
2,480 ch
5,000 oach
4,518 h
croam)
Hatchos (boxas)
150 doz
600 doz
360 do?
Shovols
20 oach
0
0
Tonts
10 c.ch
0
0
Throċd
26 sp001s 15,000 sp0o1s 8,000
-27-

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.97)
Potroloum. Oil and Lubricents
53. Approximately 1,169,830 gallons of POL wero allotted during August
making an incroasc of approximetoly 229,550 gullons ovor tho previous month.
Tho only groese distributod, totaling 8i9 pounds, was allottod to Okinawa
Gunto.
POL ALLOTTMEN:TS
(in gellons)
August
Okinava G.
N. Ryukyus S, Ryukyus Iriomoto
Eater Trens.
Gasolino
191,701
19,080
29,574
0
4,5E0
Kerosonc
1,900
25,753
36,252
212
0
Dicsel
249,955
40,000
26,288
0
509,720
011
25,325
0
0
0
7,685
Lubricant
1,800
0
0
0
0
Iriomoto Coal
54. During August the sale of coal as very slow due to the shortag?
of transportetion. A total of 16 motric tons vas sold to concerns on
Ckinava through tho Comnerce Department of thc Okinausn Civilien Administre-
tion. Coal rcccivad from Iriomotc during August totaled 174.l metric tons.
-28-

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.98)
SECTION 3
FINANCE
CONTENTS
Parngraph
Monoy and Banking
Public Finance
MONEY AND PANKING
Currency Transactiong
1.
The folloving mounts in various types of currency wero in cus-
tody of thc Fina co Departmcnt, Military Government, ns of 31 Aug-
ust: 1947:
Supplenonta1 Yon - Type "B"
Hendquarters Disbursing Officor
￥119,642,573.50
Clnss B Agent - Southern Ryulgyus
28,160,175.61
Class B Agent - Northern Ryukyus
129,479.70
Class C Agent - Northorn Ryulkyus
27.483.309.07
￥175,415,537.88
Bank of Japnn Notcs
Headquarters Disbursing Officor
¥15,326,108.41
Class B Agent - Southern Ryukyus
4,000,000.00
Class C Agent - Northern Ryukyus
12,397,500.00
Class C Agent - Okinawa Gunto
29.667.065.48
￥61,390,673.89
Old Imperinl Yen (Incl Bank of
Taivan and Choson Notos)
￥32,287;123.45
Hoadquartcrs Disbursing Officor
269.093.335.22
Cash on Hand 31 Jul 1947
¥ 276,732,093.32
Rcccipts (add)
2.
Colloctions by Payroll
¥ 1,028,257.07
Voucher Dcductions
Cash Collcctions:
Rations furnished Nativo
Labor Compounds
471.50
Clothing furnished Native
Labor Compounds
-0-
Depositod w/Class B Agent
Northern Ryukyus for Court Finos
92,000.00
Dopositod w/elass C Agent
Okinawa for Court Fincs
102,980.00
-29-

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.97)
Collcctions from sclc of Food,
Clothing nd Supplics
19,430,346.80
Depositcd w/Class C Agent
Okinnva for Taxes
690,181.07
Collcctions of Inconc Tax at Sourco
2,156.00
Collcctions for Ryukyus Students
in Japan
118,390,00
Collcctions for Okinavan Gift Shops
125,587.50
Reccipts from Funding Officer-Far East
Command, APC 500
2,000.00
Incomc fror Govt Monopolics
96.658.91
¥21,689,028.85
Cash on Hand nd Roccipts
5-21.689,028.85
Sub Total
.¥298,421,122.17
Disbursements
3.
Advancc to Studcrts in Japan
2,000.00
Payrolls for Fay of Native Ep-
ployees, Arned Forccs Ryukyus
7,01.0,499.11
Support of Civil Govts
21,476,187.84
Advanccs to Accountablc Officcrs
Capt Shelton
571,500.00
Advanccs to Accountablc Officers
Capt Brenneman
267,600.00
￥ 29,327,786.95
Cash on Hand 31 August 1947
.￥29.327.786.95
Total.
¥269,093,335.22
PUBL.IC FINANCE
Budgcts
4. A Supplonental Budget for thc Okinawan Civilian Administration
covering the bal ncc of thc Fiscal Year 1948 in the amount of Y1,225,000.00
was approved by Military Governmert Hcadquarters and submitted to PHILRYCOM
for final approval.
5. A Budgct for the Ricc Production and Land Rcclamation Authority
covering the Fiscn1 Ycar 1948 in the anount of ¥480,199.90 was submitted
to PHILRYCOM for approval. This is a proliminary budget to cover tho
wages of the ll4 persons now omployed by this projcct. Employces will bc
conducting prcliminary surveys in Yacyama, Southcrn Ryukyus and Anani O'Shina,
Northern Ryukyus.
6. A Supplonental budgct for tho Public Safety Dcpartm nt, Military
Governnent, covering the period 15 July 1947 thru March 1948 in thc anount
of 748,000.00 wns formrded to tho Commanding Goncral, PHILRYC0M, for
approval.
7. A Reparations Budget for Subsidization of Okinam covering tho period
23 Septomber 1946 thru 31 March 1948 in tho amount of ¥18,604,302.04 was
forwarded to thc Conmanding Genoral, PHILRYCOM, for approval.
-30 -

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.98)
8. Roveruc fron taxcs, chargus and focs in tho Northorn Ryukyus ts
Fiscal Yoar 1948 is cstimctud at 9,215,483.00 not inaluding looal tams
and chargos. Tho prosont incono tax syston is quito complioatod boing
nodificd over a period of ycars by spocial profits, busincss and sur-
texos. Those taxes wcro addod as specinl var taxos by tho Japanoso Gov-
ornront. Thc Provisional Govornnont is prosontly proparing rocommondations
to charge and simplify tho ontire incono trx systen.
9. Thc field auditor for Military Governnent audited tho accounts of
the conficcated O'Shina and Koniya Branchos of thc Kagoshina Kogyo Bank in
tho Northern Ryukyus during August. Ho stated that tho bink mas in oxsoll-
ont financial condition and that ho belioved cither liquidation or nerger
with the government bank vhen cstablished will be cnsily acconplishod, Tho
dircctor of tho Finance Departrent, Provisional Governmont, was appointod not-
ing prusidont of this banking organization.
10. Finincinl Instituticns in tho Northcrn Ryukyus showed roceipts
amounting to ￥ 27,049,090.89 and disburscments anounting to ¥34,939,541.47
at thc end of July.
RFCEIPTS AND DISBURSEIENTS
NORTHERN RYUKYUS FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
(in ycn)
July
Facility
Roccipts
Disbursomonte
Post Officc
6,048,382.36
8,267,875.69
Bank:
20,121,607.30
26,006,385.74
Nazo Shi
Credit Assn.
786,449.66
584,651.07
Mutual Financc Assn.
92,651.57
80,628.97
Food nd surplus property sold to tho Provisicnal Govcrnmont,
Northcrn Ryukyus, in August totalcd ¥ 20,897,803.31.
-31-

=== Page 265 === (confidence 1.00)
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF
FAR EAST
SUMMATION
OF
UNITED STATES ARMY
MILITARY GOVERNMENT
ACTIVITIES
IN THE
RYUKYUS
Number 10
August 1947
PART IV
SOCIAL
Page
Section l. Public Health and Telfare .
33
Section 2. Education and Culture
38
-32-

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.95)
SECTION 1
PUDLIC HEITH ID LF RE
CONTELTS
Parcgraph
Velfare
1
Russottlument
7
Ron triation
Public Hoalth
10
WELL ARE
Reliof Roll
1. Tho total nubor of Ryukyuans living on Okinawa who aro now on
roliaf is 26,45f, a ducruase of 1, ?26 over July figurus. This d crceso is
du. to the continuous scrconing by the " 1"cro Dooartment.
RELIEF ROLL - OYIF. HUNTO
August
Pooplo und r 15 ycars of a :o
18,952
Puonlo over 61 yocrs of ago
3,875
Prognent vomon
363
Invalids
1,163
Deform d
737
"omon vith childron
7.368
Total
26,458
2. Durin? the month, roughly nine tons of roliof supplios woro ro-
cuivod from th Amcricen Rod Cross. Thoso supplies consistod of six end
ono-hal tons of doughnut flour and thro nd ono-half tons of clothin?.
Tho distrihution of th so su plios is being mado by tho Okinanan "olfero
Department vith th suporvision of the Military Govornmont Dopartmont of
Labor and Wolfaro.
3. Final movomont of childron from tho Fukuyama Orphanego to
tho Hyakune Orphanago has boon complctod. Convorsion of tho Fukuyame
Orphanago to a Rcform School for Boys is noar comrlotion.
4. Finel arrangomonts havo boon mado to placo child-un of par nts
sontoncod to prison, in orphanagos. Thoso childrop aro to bo rotainod in
tho Orphanage until tho timo of tho paronts rèloeso. At this timo, tho
paront is intorviovod vith ragard to rohabilitation and tho atility to
caro for and oducato his childron. This program is ving conductod by tho
Okinawan Social and Wolfaro Dopartmont end tho Prison Officials.
-33-

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.99)
5. Investigation by the Provisional Government of the Northern
Ryukyus indicates that reports submitted by each shi, cho and mure on
persons requiring relief includes only those persons who are in extreme-
ly distressed circumstances. The number of suoh persons requiring relief
for the month of August was 4,240.
6. Three relief housing units wore completed in Nase, Amami O-Shime,
this month. Each unit will bccommodate six families of about six members
each.
RESETTLEMENT
7. Land released by other military units to Military Government and
in turn to the Okinawans was as follows:
Mura
For Resettlement
Cultivation Only Total
Giowan
107.4 Acres
0
107.4
Mawashi
183.9
0
183.9
Total
291.3
0
291.3
8. During the month of August, approximately 400 Okinawans, super-
vised by Ordnance personnel, removed or destroyed 1,O49 tons of ammunition
in the Naha Ammunition Storage area. It is estimated that within four of
five months this ontire area will be cleared of ammunition and can be
turned over to the Okinavans for resettlement and cultivation.
REPATRIATION
9. Repatriation activities show an increaseoover July with 1,985
repatriates reccived from Japan: 747 for Okinawa; 1,125 for the Northerr
Ryukyus; 113 for the Southern Ryukyus. Repatriates sent to Japan totaled
1,082: 60 from Okinawa; 1,022 from the Northern Ryukyus.
Twelve persons were repatriated from Okinawa to the Northern Ryukyus;
three from the Northern Ryukyus to Okinawa.
PUBLIC HEALTH
Medical Care
10. Medical care in the Ryukyus for July is shown in the table below:
Qkinava Gunto (July) N. Ryukyus
In patients
719
256
Out pationts
103,683
23,848
1,337/
Hospital capacity
a/ This figure includes beds in the 37 dispensaries in the Gunto, to
which patients are admitted for temporary troatment only.
-34-

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.95)
Disc se Taciicnce
11. Autust incidonco of thirteen important diseesos in tho Ryukyus
is shown in the followinz t. 1..
DIST ST TCID NCE
ugust
Ckinava Gunto (July)
". Ryukyus
S. Ryukvus
Chickon Pox
19
e.c1s
94
25
Gorman Mo slos
156
I umps
260
Influenz
3,687
一
Lob. r Pnouronia
271
0
Dinhtheria
22
6
"hooping Couth
459
86
Tuberculosis
406
33
Filcriasis
27
0
lalaria
13,2/1
19
Amochic Dysentory
200
22
Trachoma
6,19
44
 It is believed that othor forms of conjunc ivitis are boing reported
s trachoma.
12. Fifty-four vomen cre succursfully trert d for chronic zonorrhea
vith penicil in. Those indivi uals voro isolated in hospitals end prisons.
Practicclly lo0 vercont of zonorrho c ses aro sulfa-r sistant.
Japanuse B Encephalitis in Okinave Gunto
13. Thero vorc 26 cases of Japan so B Encophalitis roportod for July.
Durin, Lugust roports shov a large incrocs . Bolow is the tehlo shovin?
new cases in August; tho total number of cas s for 19/7 end the total
numter of dorths or 1047.
District
Cascs in Aurust
Total for 1947
Total Death:
Hontona
0
0
0
Taire
2
3
0
Jinuza
4
11
2
Ishikane
4
6
5
Haobaru
14
24
1
Kozε
32
38
11
Naha
8
8
0
Itomen
4
4
0
Chinon
62
62
23
Total
130
156
42
14. Momhors of tho Neurotrophic Virus Comvission, Tokyo, spent con-
siderahlo timo on Okinawa collecting data on mosquito hahits end Encophalitis
casos.
-35-

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.95)
Operations
15. The folloving opora ions  ro porformod in Okinava Gunto during
the month of July:
Appondoctoni.s
21
P.ritonitis
4
Int stinal Obstruction
1
Hornia
2
"on i'alignanei s of Ut rus
1
Cancer Corvix and Utorus
4
Retro Tluxion
18
Rotro Virsion
22
Cvarion Cyst
L
Utorine Prolanse
2
Endometritis
7
Extra Utorino Pregnancy
4
Cancur of Protst
2
Non malimert Tumora of Precst
4
yma
3
Trech atomy
2
Hastoidiis
1
inout tion
1.
Ostcomyilitis
1
Hydroc.le
2
Sanitation .ctiviti s
16. Orinau
(Jun)
Ten-hours lhor
290,659 hours
Dreinagu Ditchos constructed
,066 motors
Dreinage Ditch s s rvic d
508,367 mot.rs
DDT povd r 10% expunded
250 pounds
DOT in oil exounded
3,251 gellons
Penite xoonded
197 gallons
Hous  sprayd
9,886
Latrin s constructed
1,091
Latrines clos d
273
Latrins maint: ined
66,840
Wolls constructd
40
ells claned
511
"ells clos d
0
17. Northorn Ryukyus (July)
Houses sprayed
7
Wolls maintained
7,942
"clls constructd
20
Wolls 6losod
0
Mella cloaned
9
Latrinos (total)
40,820
Latrines constructed
246
Latrinos closed
0
-36-

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.98)
Modical Supply
18. The folloving medical supplics listed in pounds woro distributed
during August for civilian usc throughout the Ryukyus:
Okinava
N. Ryukyus
Surgical Drossings
12.500
Biologicals and Drugs
83,905
11,757
Equipment
15:450
1,460
Alcohol
2.944
Total
114,799
13,217
19. There were 500,000 bottles of Atabrine receivcd for distribution
during August. 1,000 vials of Penicillin verc also reccived for distribu-
tion.
Vital Statistics
20, No record of marriages and divorces in tho Northern Ryukyus is
available for August.
Vital Statistics
(Dugust)
Okinava Gunto (July)
N. Ryukyus
Births
1,132
515
Stillbirths
4
4
Deaths
368
310
Marriegos
527
Divorces
81
-37-

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.97)
SECTION 2
EDUCATIONND CULTUR
COLTENTS
Paregraph
Education
1
Cultur
14
EDUC TIOU
Schools
1. School attundanco uring tho month of August in Okinave Gunto.
Typo of School
Lo. Schools
Toachors
Pupils
Kindorgartons
135
701
25,908
Elenentary
141
3,107
112,482
High Schools
12
281
,338
Tochnical 'igh Schcols
3
44
512
Inustrial High Schools
25
296
16,301
Hi ;her Schools
21
241
Tot: 1
318
4,450
163,782
School ettendance during the month in the Torthern Ryukyus.
Typo of School
No. Schools
Toachors
Punils
Kindorgartons
2
11
375
Technical High School
28
182
2.91
Totel
30
193
10,356
Primary and High schools vero havinz their vacation durin? tho
month cf August.
2. Toachors' Institutos woro hold during tho rock of l&-23 August et
throo diffcront high schools on Okinawa. Goography, history, and civics
toachors not at ! sobaru High School. athomatics and scicnce teachors mot
ct tho Taire High School. English toachors mot et Chinen High School.
Throo officials of tho Military Govornment Education Denartment conduct d tho
instituto :t Chinen and zavo locturos concorning English instruction,
Amorican govornmont and domocracy, psychology and mothods of instruction.
About 140 toachors attonded tho throo institutcs.
3. Schools on Okinawa Gunto woro clos d durin? tho l.st tπo vooks of
August for tho summer vacation. Thoy vill ro-opon on 3 Soptombor.
- 38 -

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.98)
4. Fivo studonts arrivod from the Daito Islands on 12 August to atte
tho Maobaru High School on Okine:a.
5. A total of 2,550 toxtbooks werc mimiographed and distributed during
August on Okinawa.
6. Four hundred school dosks and chairs Were distributod to tho schoole
on Ckinava during August.
7. Expendible supplics issuod to the schools on Okinawa during the
month included 38 vorld maps and 6 English-Japanese dictioneries.
8. Five teachers from the Northorn Ryukyus visited Okinawa to in-
spect cducational facilities on Okinawa and to confer with Hilitary Gov-
ernment Educstion Department officials on educational problems of the
Northern Ryukyus.
9. There vere 17 scwing schools established on Okinawa during July
and August. The enrollment of approximately 1,700 consists largely of g. rls
of high school age or older who are not employed or attonding high sch-ol.
10. Tho Provisional Governmont, Northern Ryukyus, distributod 600
reams of mimeograph paper among tho schools.
11. The Central Educational Council mct to discuss and plan in de-
tail proposed cxpansion of Middlc Schools (high schools) in tho Northern
Ryukyus. At the present therc are only thrce High Schools and 28 Technical
liigh Schools.
12. It is thought that the prcposed high schools in the Northern
Ryukyus vill be complcted and in operation by April of 1948. Those now
high schools vill be cstablished on tho following basis:
(1) Schools will be so locatcd as to bc within at least
seven miles of all pupils.
(2)
Schools having over 300 pupils vill bo called "Principal
Middlc Schools" and thosc heving less will be called
"Branch Miiddlc Schools".
(3)
"hen all middle schools in a cho or mura have over 300
pupils cach, only ono will be callod a "Principal School".
(4)
A middle school in a district including tvo or moro primary
schools, will be called a "Principal School" rogardless of
the numbor of pupils.
13. Each shi, cho and mura will determine the sitos of its middle
schools on tho following basis:
(1) An area no loss than 3 tsubo (11.35 sq. yds.) will be
providod for each pupil.
-39

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.98)
established with a primary school.
(3)
Sanitation, location af villagos, sccnery, commmicatio
and typhoon protoction will bo primarily considerod in
choolsing tho sito.
CULTURE
14. A chil.dren's dancing school has beon ostablished in Shuri,
Okinawa. This school is using a small building adjacent to the Shuri
Musoum and hes an enrollment of 40 giris betwoen tho agos of nine exd
twelve.
15. Nine plays were presented in Nazo, Amami O-Shima, during
August, by the various entcrtainmert organizations. Six dance concerts
and one music conccrt were also prosonted.
-40

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.95)
UNITED STATES POLITI
FOR JAPA
QDAYON OF
1947
D
UNC LSSIFI D
OCT 221947
No. 1296
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
UBJECT: Minor Islands Adjacent to Japan
The Counselor of Mission has the honor to refer to
this ission's despatches Nos. 844, February 2o, and
1166, July 14, 1947, with which were enclosed Parts I,
II, and III of a study made by the Japanese Foreign
Office on the subject, "inor Islands Adjacent to Japan
FE
roper." There are now forwarded as an accompaniment
twenty copies of Part IV of this study, dated June, 1947.
E
SPA
accompaniment:
Twenty Copies of Study,
DC/R
as described.
6
Original and hectograph to Department.
801.45
JWBurnett:mm
Ene ni Bulbry File
1947 OCT 1 PM 12 00
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECEIVED
LIAISON
DC/L
い
P 
97 SE
OCT 23 1947
FILED
J.B.B.

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.99)
MINOR ISLANDS
ADJACENT TO
JAPAN PROPER
894.014
PART IV.
Minor Islands in the Pacific
Minor Islands in the Japan Sea
w
FOREIGN OFFICE
JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
JUNE 1947.

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.98)
For information of the Allied authoriti•

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.89)
Utsuryo 1. (278.000)
OTHER MINOR ISLANDS
120
130
140
150
160°
.2
HOKKAIDO
Japan Sea
5
Takel.(278.000)
(Utsuryoor Ullung)
KOREA Dagalel.
ob
Take Shim
HONSHU
Pacific Ocean
Daitol.Gr(7.oo)
(Nakame-Tan1)
Narth Daito
Minami-Toril
Narth Daite
Benia Is
(North Berodimal
0
South Dane
Valcanels.
South Daite
OKinoDaite
FORMOSA
d山)

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.99)
CONTENTS
Chapter I. Minor Islands in the Pacific
Introduction
I. Daito Island Group
1. Geography
2. History
8. Inhabitants
4, Industry
II. Marcus Island (Minami-Tori-shima)
1. Geography
2. History
3. Inhabitants
6
III. Parece Vela Island (Oki-no-Tori-shima)
1. Geography
2. History
6
Chapter II. Minor Islands in the Japan Sea
8
Introduction
8
I. Liancourt Rocks (Take-shima)
1. Geography
2. History
3. Industry
10
II. Dagelet Island (Matsu-shima, Utsuryo or Ul-lung Island). 10
1. Geography
10
2. History
10
Industry

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.95)
Chapter I. Minor Islands in the Pacifle
Introduction.
Japan's so-called outlying Pacific Islands include the Dafto (Oagari)
Island Group, Parece Vela (Oki-no-Tori-shima) and Marcus (Minami-
Tori-shima) Islands. In addition to them, Ganges (Naka-no-Tori) also
 sometimes included (Note 1) which however in reality is pon-existent
During the period from May 27th to June 2nd, 1933, the Japanese warshtp
Komahashi explored an expanse 70 miles with the island's supposed posi-
tion as the center but failed to find it. As a result the naval authorlties,
on November 13th, 1933, notified the interested quarters under the jurle-
diction of the Navy Ministry that the island did not exist, although this
information was withheld from the public at that time (Note 2).
I. Daito Island Gróup.
1. Grography.
The Daito Island Group is isolated in mid-ócean, consisting of North
and South Daito Islands (131°14' E. and 25°50' N.) about 195 miles east
of the Main island of Okinawa and of Oki-no-Daito Island (181'11' .
and 24'28' N.) about 80 miles to the south of the two islands. Admini-
stratively, the Island Group belongs to Okinawa Prefecture, but, it is
separated from the Ryukyu Islands not only by a great distance but also
by the Ryukyu Trench 6,000 to 7,000 meters in depth. Furthermore,
unlike Okinawas these Islands are all elevated coral reefs, each with a
circular basin in the center. The whole islands are composed of coral
limestone, but North and South Daite Islands contain each in the center
a seam of claysoll which is fit for the cultivation of the sugar-cane.
Phosphate also is produced on North Daito Island and Oki-no-Dalto
Island. The largest of the three is South Daito Island which has area
of 5.01 square miles.
2. History.
Maps made in Europe early in 17th century indicated an island named
Note 1.
S0AP Directive of Jamary 29th, 1946, concorning " Goremmental and Adml-
nistative Separation of Oertain Outlying Arens from Japan."
Note 2.
How the name " Ganges " came into ume lo not clear. The name " Nakaño Tost"
was med in the Tokyo Prefectue notifiestion of Augint Sth, 1o0s, whleh we
iamed on the bad of a reprt tha in Ag Ide, a Japa   AD.
Toleabaro, hed disoresed an leland at a poine aes' . and 1sdºg . and
placed the ame under the jurissdetion of the Ogamawam Beanck

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.97)
"Amsterdam" where North and Sowth Datte
The identity of that laland is not cleas, but it is
Daito Island. It seems that the tsland was
in the 17th century by a Hollander sailing the sees we
name "Amsterdam" has long been used also to later
porary maps made in Europe and America, in most cases, give
South Daito Islands as "Borodino Islands" and Oki-no-Datto
"Rasa" or "Kendric." The name "Borodino" was given by
naval officer, Ponafidin, in 1820, after the name of the warship
sighted the islands. "Rase" dates back to 1807, when a French
sighted and so named the island.
For a long time these islands were left ownerless and u
(Note 1). In 1885 the Japanese Government had the Governo
nawa Prefecture inspect North and South Dafto Islands, and ind
them into Japanese territory (Note 5). Thereafter varlous pl
made for opening up of these islands, the development work be
in hand on South Daito Island in 1900 and on North Daito Island
Oki-no-Daito Island was visited in 1892 by the Japanese
Kaimon and formally incorporated into Japanese territory on
17th, 1900.. The work of developing the island was commenced  1
3. Inhabitanls.
The first settlers to arrive in the Daito Islands were 28 inhabe
of Hachijo-jima, Tokyo Prefecture. For this reason, the domimamt
fluence on the islands used to be exercised by persons hailing from th
island.
In subsequent years, natives of Okinawa Prefecture also came
these islands, and they outnumbered the settlers from Hachijo-fima.
stituting over 60 percent of the whole population. Most of them,
ever, having come as casual laborers did not remain permanently ont
islands.
Before the war, the inhabitants of North and South Daito Iak
numbered respectively about 1,800 and 3,500 and they were largely
bers or tenant-farmers of the Dai Nippon Sugar Company.
Note 3.
For example, the map of 16so by Willem Bleeu and the map of Iess by. Jedo
Hondius. The island is not found in earlier maps made in Europe.
Note 4.
Commodore Perry who navigated the vicinity in 18se mys in his Narrative (Chep
X, p. 245):
No signe of people were dispovered, and it is presmmed that the lalemds
uninhabited.
Note 6.
A party of officials dispatched by Oisimawe Prefegtme arrived on Soeth D
Island on Augast 29th, 18ss; and, bef ore they left the aland on the stst of
month, they had maile explomtions and put up.a sigapost indlesting Ja
posseasion.

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.98)
The latter island hed
railway for sugar plantation.
The population of Oki-no-Dalto Island was
whom were members or employees of the Rase P
pany.
4. Induntry.
The task of opening up the Daito Islands was undertaken entirely by
Japanese. In the space of some 30 years after the work was started
the beginning of the present century the islands underwent a rapld dev
lopment, in the manufacture of sugar and in the mining of phosphate.
The yearly output of sugar.amounted approximately to between 6.0
and 10,000 metric tons which corresponds to the total volume of Japame
sugar rations for infants and medical uses in 1946.
Sugar Output in Latest Ten Years
(In Metric Tons)
South
North
Year
Daito Island
Daito Island
Total
1934-5
4,237
809
5,046
1935-6
6,930
708
7,638
6,948
1936-7
6,033
915
1937-8
9,987
1,252
11,239
1938-9
9,984
1,176
11,160
1939-40
8,563
1,053
9,616
1940-1
5,104
627
5,766
1941-2
5,343
453
5,794
1942-3
5,992
859
6,851
1943-4
.6,152
639.
6,791
As to industrial equipment, South Daito Island has a modern sugar
refinary with a daily capacity of 500 metric tons, together with its accen-
sory installations. On North Daito Island there exist fve old-style work-
places for the manufacture of brown sugar.
On North Daito Island, there is carried on also.phosphate mining.
This enterprise was commenced in 1910, but was for a time suspended
as it did not pay. It was recommenced in 1919. The phosphate de
are estimated at 1,440,000 tons. The following table indicates the ye
shipments of phosphate to Japan Proper in the latest tem year
( 8 )

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.98)
 Malpment trom North Datte
(In Tone)
Year
1935
1936
42,805
1937
43,031
1938
33,900
1939
35,977
1940
33,637
1941
44,163
1942
72,084
1943
59,150
40,024
1944
The only industry on Oki-no-Daito Island is phosphate-mining. The
exigtence of phosphate deposits was confirmed in 1906, and in 191r the
mining was taken in hand. The operations were thereafter carried on
by the Rasa Island Phosphate Mining Company. Owing to ooonomic
depression and the diminution of phosphate deposits, then accessible, the
operations were suspended in 1928 and resumed in 198s. In the period
1911-1928 representing-the first stage of operations, that is, from the
initiation to the temporary suspension of operations, the total volume of
phosphate production amounted to 1,108,883 tons. In the ensuing second
stage of operations, the annual production stood at about s0,000 ton.
The entire output was shipped to Japan Proper.
Phosphate Stipment fron Oki-no-Daito Island.
(In Tons)
Year
Shipments
1935
30,150
1936
59,563
1937
53,520
1938
58,206
1939
48,284
1940
46,169
1941
34,504
1942
45,300
1943
34,611
1944
4.728
The Daito Islands began some years ago to cultivate the potato and
raise domestic animals, with the view of supplying théir own wants 
much as possibie. However, as the inianders are engaged primarlly im the
(4)

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.98)
sitles of life.
The Daite Islands occupy an important positiod
rological observation, especially in predicting the cour
which visit Japan. For this purpos?, an observator has hitherto been
operation on South Daito Island.
11. Marcus Island (Minami-Tori-ohima).
1. Geography.
Marcus Island is situated at 24°17'30" N. and 158°58' E., 684 mle
east-south-east of Chichi-jima of the Ogasawara Island Group.. It is
isolated oceanic island, formed of coral reefs, flat and nearly triangular
in shape, and about 0.8 square miles in area, its highest point being onty
19 meters above sea level.
The island is of much importance for meteorological observations,
especially for typhoons.
2. History.
It seems that existence o7 the island was first reported in 1864 by an
American missionary who called it "Marcus" or "Weeks". Subsequently,
it was visited by an American ship in 1874 and by a French ship in 1880.
The island then came to be inserted in hydrographic charts, but it was
at that time uninhabited and its ownership was uncertain.
In 1879, a Japanese called SAITO, Seizaemon, and others, while sailing
in these waters, found the island, and by visiting it several times, thereafter
ascertained that it was not inhabited. In 1896 one MIZUTANI, Shinroku,
came to settle on the island with 28 workers under him and to engage in
catching birds and fish.
On July 24, 1898, the Japanese Government made the island a part
of Tokyo Prefecture and placed it under the jurisdiction of its Ogasaware
Branch Offce and granted licence to Misutani to carry on his undertaking.
Previously to the above, an American called A. Rosehill, cruising the
south seas in 1889, discovered the island, and finding it uninhabited, afixed
an American flag to a coco-palm. After returning to Honolulu, he applied
to the United States State Department for permission to take guanos of
the island. But, as he did not go through requlsite formalities, no action
was'taken, his application being only kept on record. In 1902-the Japa-
nese Government learned that the aforesaid Rosehill had formed a arm
called the Marcus Ialand Guano Company and was coming to the leland.
In order to explaim to him the fact that the laland was ofmclally lack
in Japam's territory in 1898, the Japanese Government dees

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.98)
spot Foreign Ministry Secretary ISHll, Kikujiro (subeequeatly Vi
arrived at the island on the 27th of the same month.
Rosehill was not there as yet. So, a small corps headed by Loute-
nant Akimoto remained on the island, and the Kusagi sailed homoward.
Secretary Ishii left a letter addressed to Rosehill stating the status of the
island and suggesting that if there were any doubt as to which country
the island belonged to, it should be discussed between the American and
Japanese Governments and the individuals should abide by their decision.
A day after the Kasagi left the island, Captain Rosehill arrived. He read
the letter handed by Lieutenant Akimoto and salled back to Honolulu
after two or three days. On his return Rosehill applied to the United
States Government for the payment by the Japanese Government of the
damages incurred by the Marcus Island Guano Company and of his ex-
pedition expenses. The United States Government did not, however,
entertain the application.
No question has since arisen between Japan and the United States
concerning the island.
3. Inhabitants.
In 1902 there were 29 inhabitants on the island, engaged in catching
birds and making them into stuffed specimens. Their number fluctuated
between 30 and 50. Later, a firm called Minami Tori Shima Company
had been carrying on the mining of guanos, cultivation of coco-palms,
and flishing. But since November, 1930, most of the inhabitants have
quit the island.
IIl. Parece Vela Island (Oki-no-Tori-shima).
1. Grography.
Situated at 20°25' N. and 136°5' E. about 370 miles southwest of
Minami-Iwo-jima, Parece Vela Island is an isolated uninhabited oceanic
atoll without outlet. It is oblong in form, about 2.5 miles from east to
west and from half a mile to 1 mile from south to north.
With the exception of one or two above-water rocks on the western
side the atoll is usually submerged, with rocks appearing here and there
at low tides.
2. History.
In the Spanish charts published up to 16s9, there was mentioned
"Parece Vela," which corresponds to the above island. But it is not clear
when it was discovered and who discovered it. Probably the island was
(6)

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.99)
found before the beginning of the seventeemth
who frequented the Pacific Ocean between
Islands.
In 1689 this island was sighted by Dutchmen.
Janszoon Tasman, and called by them as Engelsbroogte. Thie
then, the name Parece Vela being still employed. In 1789 English Captain
William Douglas visited the island and since then it has come to be pall
Douglas Reef. Further, in 1890 the reef was surveyed by the B
vessel Amphion.
The Japanese Government despatched the warship Monshs to the
atoll twice, in 1922 and in 1925. In the chart published in Japan, in May.
1922, it was noted as Parece Vela, but in the one published in Septemher,
1929, it was put down as Oki-no-Tori.
On July 6, 1931, it was incorporated into the Japanese territory and
placed under the jurisdiction of the Ogasawara Branch Ofce of Tokyo
Prefecture.
This island constitutes an important outpost in connection with the
chservation of typhoons. It is also so situated as to make it an land
mark on the air and sea routes. It was therefore decided to set up on t
a navigation beacon and a meteorological observatory.
The Japanese Government began construction work in June, 1986.
It was necessary to build up the foundation upon the coral reef under
water. Because of the diffculty of transporting materials to this far and
isolated island, and the absence in the vicinity of any convenient anchor-
age for shelter from typhoons, the construction proved an onerous task.
The project was dropped after three years chiefly spent im the com-
pletion of the foundation.

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.98)
Chapter 11. Minor Islands in the Jappn Sea
Introduction.
Of the minor islands in the Japan Sea, the present chapter deals
the Liancourt Rocks and Dagelet Island, which lle off the Tsushima str
and some 50 miles apart from each other.
The Liancourt Rocks, also called Hornet Islands in Europe, is
in Japan as Take-shima. The Japanese name for Dagelet is Mstsu-st
or Utsuryo, of which the Korean equivalent Ul-lung is also used som
times in the West.
The existence of these islands was known to Japanese in early times
(Note 1). Originally it was the Liancourts which were called "Matsu
shima", and Dagelet which was called "Take-shima". The revesing of
the nanmes originated in a curious combination of circumstance.
The old-time "Take-shima" was visited by Europeans in the begin-
ning of the 18th century—firstly by Captain de La Pérouse (Note 2) and
let" and "Argonaut". But as the two explorers had given different longl-
tudinal measurements, "Take-shima" was shown as two islands in the
maps then made in Europe.
Philip Franz von Siebold, when preparing his map of Japan published
in 1840, thought that the two islands long known to Japanese as Matsu-
shima and Take-shima corresponded to Dagelet and Argonaut; and he
designated Dagelet, supposed to be in the east, as Matsu-shima, and Ar-
gonaut, supposed to be in the west, as Take-shima.
Afterwards, although it was established that the two islands were
in reality one and Argonaut was discarded, Dagelet continued to be called
Matsu-shima, and the name Take-shima came to be transferred to the
Island which had been originally Matsu-shima and which was later named
Note 1. Professor TAROHAsHI, Kiyoshi, writes in his monograph Utsuryo Island-its
discovery and its possession (Seikyu-Gakuho No. 3, Fobrumry 1981):
It is in more or less ancient times that Japanese fishermen in the fan-in.
district had come to gain a fair knowledge of these ialands and it is gizite
possible that in the days of early history a ses route was alreaedy knowm to
reach Kores from the San-in district through Qki Islands, Take-shime and
Utsuryo Island.
Note 3.
Captain Jean Francois de La Perouse, under the osders of King Louis XVI of
France, left France in 1785 in command of two frigates Boussole and Astrolebe
and, on discovering Utsuryo Island on May 97, 1787, named it " Dagelet." The
nase was taken after professor Lepante Dagalet of l'Ecole Militaire on bonsd the
Boussole who firmt sighted the island.
( 8.)

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.98)
Ldameourts by the Freach.
I. Liancourt Rooks (Take-shima).
1. Geography.
Liancourt Rocks are situated at 37°9' N. and 131'56' E, being about
86 miles from Oki Islands of Shimane Prefecture. They consist of a pair
of islets, 0.06 and 0.02 square miles respectively and a number of rocks
scattered around them. The islets, composed of tarren rocks and dovold
of any overgrowth, look white being covered with birds' droppings. The
rugged beaches dotted with strange looking caves are noted as breeding
grounds of sea-lions (zalophus lobatus). Lacking in open spaces and
drinking water, the islets are unfit for human habitation. The rock
scattered around are generally flat at their tops and barely show them-
sclves above water.
2. History.
As stated in the Introduction, the Jepanese knew the exiitence of
the Liancourt Rocks from the anclent times. Bút the earliest document-
ary evidence of this knowledge is to be found in the Inshu Shicho Göki
(Oki Provnce; Things Seen and Heard) a book published in 1667, which
contains the following description:
To the northwest from the Province of Oki there is Matsu-shima
at a two days' distance, and at another day's distance further out
there is Take-shima. The latter, also called Iso-take-shima, is rich,
in bamboo, fish etc.
It is clear that Matsu-shima here refers to the Liancourts (Illustra-
tion).
As for European acquaintance with the Rocks, it was in 1849 that
the Liancourt, a French whaling ship, first sighted them and gave them
their present name. The Pallada, a Russian frigate under the command
of Admiral Putiatin, is said to have taken soundings of the adjacent sea
in 1854. In the following year came the Hornet, a corvette of the British
China Fleet, which also sounded the vicinity of the Rocks.
It should be noted that while there is a Korean name for Dagelet,
none exists for the Liancourts Rocks and they are not shown in the maps
made in Korea.
On February 22, 1905, the Governor of Shimane Prefecture, by a
prefectural proclamation, placed the Liancourts under the jurisdictiop of
the Oki Islands Branch Offce of the Shimane Prefectural government
(Note 8).
Note 8. The United States Hydrographicel Surocy a   with 
under the head of Oki group of inlaarda.

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.99)
8. Industry.
It is presumed that no one has ever settled on the tak
natural conditions as stated above. In 1904,
of Oki Islands began to hunt sea-lions on these lalets and
summer the islanders, using Dagelet as their base, went regularly
Rocks and built sheds as temporary quarters for the season.
II. Dagelet Island (Matsu-shima, Utsuryo or Ul-lung Island).
1. Geography.
Dagelet Island is situated at 37'30'N. and 130'52'E. and a
equidistant from the port of Fushan of Korea and the port of Sak
Tottori Prefecture, Japan. Its area is 28 square miles. Almost
covered with volcanic rocks, it presents a complicated topography
a lone peak in the middle, rising 983 meters above sea level.
The terrain is rugged, surrounded by steep cliffs nearly all aro
and there is no good anchorage in the adjacent waters. The mount
areas were fornmerly covered with dense woods but, owing to reck
deforestation, there remain to-day only a few aged trees here and th
at higher altitudes. The flora of this island, though forming a smiall
distinct domain, is recognized to have many common features with Jap
Proper. For instance, while 14 out of 90 specimens of trees are endemle.
64 are identical with those of the central part of Honshu. In passing, It
is interesting to note that the cultivation in Japan of the Take-shime
lily (lilium hansonii), an endemic plant of the island, is mentioned in a
book published in 1710, a fact which points to an early intercourse be-
tween the island and Japan.
2. History.
It is only in 1787 that the island was first mentioned, by the name
of Dagelet, in the world history of discoveries by Captain Jean. François
de La Pérouse of the French navy (See Note 2). In Japanese documents,
however, reference was made as early as 1004 to Uruma Island, an old
Japanese equivalent for Ul-lung Island.
The island was known to Koreans also from ancient times. Several
attempts at colonization were made by Koreans after the middle of the
12th century. The Island became later a convenient hiding-place by
criminals and brigands. The Korean Government from 1400 and on-
ward adhered for a long time to a policy of keeping it uninhabited.
As the island was thus virtually abandoned by the Korean Govern-
ment, the Japanese continued to frequent it in increasing numbers. The
expedition of TOYOTOMi, Hideyoshi to Korea in 1592 served to accelerate
activities of the Japanese in this area, and for about, a century thereafter
(10)

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.97)
the lsland remained in all appearasces a Japane
From the beginning of the 17th century rep
carried on between Japan and Koren on the question of
island.
In 1692 the arrival of a large númber of Koresns in the letand
rise to a dispute, on which negotiations were conducted between
Korean Government and the feudal lord of Tsushima representing th
Shogunate. As a result, in 1697 the Tokugawa Shogunate py
the Japanese from going to the island for fishing and informed the t
Government to that effect. The question was thus apparently settled for
the time being.
The Korean authorities, however, made no change in its polley to
keep the island uninhabited even after the above mentloned incident.
They despatched officials only once in three years to have them cut down
trees and bamboos and collect native products to be presented to the
government. The Japanese, therefore, never stopped fishing near the
island (Note 5).
Toward the end of the Tokugawa Shogunate and in the early years
of Meiji (around 1868), a movement gathered force in Japan urging the
development of "Matsu-shima" and petitions were made to the Goverm-
ment. As it was ascertained that "Matsu-shima" was none other than
the island which was once the subject of negotiations with the Korean
Government and which the Japanese had been prohibited from entering.
the petitions were not taken up by the Japanese Government, although
Japanese still continued to go to the island. On the other hand the Ko-
rean Government made repeated demands to Japan to keep her subjects
out of the island and at the samè time tried to develop the ialand them
selves but with no appreciable results.
The Annexation of Korea in 1910 brought the island under the rule
of the Government-General of Chosen.
Note 4.
In 1618, the foudal lond of Inabs, under the mnction of the Shogunate, authorieed
two citisens by the name of Otani and Muakawa of Yonago, Hoki Provinoe, to
visit Take-shima (vis. Dagalet).
thus caught were sent from the Imabe Clan to the Shugunate as an samual poseet.
Note B.
Iwami Province, was ereuted for engaging in contmband trade with 
stated that wheress Japanese hed male frequent tripe to Dagoket feef
over to Koree since 1007.
(11)

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.96)
8. Industry.
The development of the island ls stm in 
the settlers having come no eartier than several domee
total population, mostly Koreans, as of 1985, was, 11,740, the
numbering a little over 500 among them.
The industries mainly consist of agriculture and ashing.
of the lack of alluvial soil. farnring is limited to the cultivation
land for potatoes, corn, soy beans, wheat and other crops.
production is barely adequate to meet the needs of the inhablu
The fishing industry is'actively engaged in as the surroundte
are rich in fish and sea-weeds because of the confluence.of both
and warm currents. More than 120,000 yen worth of products are
every year. Cattle and silk are also raised on the side-line.
(18)

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.91)
Illustration
1y
A Part of a " Complete Map of Japan" ( Nippon-Yochi-Rotei-Zenzu), a representative
map of Japan in the middle of the Tokugawa Shogunate period, prepared by NAGAKIU BO,
Sekisui, in 1775, in which Dagelet and the Liancourts are shown with their original Japanese
names--Take-shima and Matsu-shima respectively--in which they used to be called before the
eversion of the appellations took place. (See page 9)

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.87)
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
FOR JAPAN
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1.
RECEIVED
8
Hs itt-  : Petitin for tne Restoration
t  ert i Isl s j cent to Hokkaido.
LiolEi
issis. : t..e . r to refer to
1.1
  er 10, 1047,
ti for
isto
0-247
FE
iao
 ict forces.
Intinieloetitinin
SPA
AS
OCD
FC
oert,rit
 lisn trens
I ti. thereor. he  titi, urs ce eneral of
Dc
te Ar ketur   it  Y  uc v.e styles imself
"cheirm of the monne ido mot na villa e ouncil,"
CS/V
re uest: the reture to Jap lese jurisdiction of the Haso-
mi, Aki-yuri, torofu, : m Aunasniri Islands.
Enclosures
Petition addresseu to Genersl
Mac Arthur, September t, 1947
(original Japnese : nd copy of
English translation).
Original and ozalid to Department.
801.45
RHBushner: emn

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure to Desputn No. 131i Jated October 2, 1947 from the Politioal
Adviser for Japan,  kyo, on the subject, "Trunamittal of a Petition for
the Restoration to J. pan of Certain Islands Adjacent to Hokkaido."
(Translation)
General of the .ry Douglas acArthur,
upree Cor under for the Allied Powers.
Your xcellency,
1. e huve tie honour to petition your xcellency for the return
to the territory of Jupan of the  abonai islunds, consisting of shikotan,
Taruku, nibutsu, suisho, Yuri nd mi-yuri islunds, which belong to Nemuro
Chire of  okkaido und Islands of torofu and Kunashiri, which are the south-
erost tio isl nds of the Kurile Islunds becuuse those islands, although
they are now. :er the occu ution of the soviet rmy, ure the integral part
of Jupan he  the listrict lcre there were plenty of marine products
which re tine urce of protein supply bally needed for the life of the
Jupanese puop..
2. The reasens of this petition.
a. he Iabonmai Isl-nis, including shikotan, aruku, Shibatsu, Suisho,
Yuri und .kiyuri Islands, which are now under the occupation of the soviet
ary, vhere inistered us a part of Lubomai villt ge of Nemuro county of
Hokkuido, and never included in the hurile Islands.
b. The Islunds of terofu und kunashiri of the Kurile Islands, sit-
uated very close to the I abomui Islanus, were definitely recognized as the
Jupenese territory by the Treaty Coll.erce, avigation und Delimitation be-
tween Russia und Jupan signed in 1854 und tlis fuct was confirmed by the
Treaty of xchunge of the  ulien Islund end the Kurile croup of Islands
between Jupan und Russit si ned in 1875 which does not refer to these two
islands but provides only for the xchn e of 1' islands of the kurile
north of "ruppu Tuland for Sagalien. hus, it I ust necessurily be concluded
thet the Iclunes ef torofu und Kunash iri cre verritories proper to Japan
and not transferred fror. ussi.
c. For the last 20o yeare, tle Te  nese lived in these islands. They
are encd in firheries for three to six enerations. nd these islands
were udninistered under the crlinary Jupanese hone nunicipality system. Thus
from the economic point of vic. t! re closely bound with the mainland
of Hokkaido. li eopl ave never lived in these islands.
d. One third of the fisery roduct of Hokkuido which again produces
one third of that of Jupun, come eretofore fro. the waters near these islands.
the main fishery grounds of sulnon, trout, codfish, crab, seaweed, and shell-
ligament, the loss of which means that of protein supply and very serious
blow to the Jupanese.
e. On these islande several thousand Jupalese still live in confine-
ment. Some have mude ood their escupe therefrom, cut then their families
were broken up and their colununication with then was completely severed.
They

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.91)
Encl. to Jokyo's
1311, uctober 2, 1947.
-2-
Phey very  teit verir welfare, those
istands w ic. re i.. hiiin. list ce.
.  ot unly i. it  matter of reut conseuences for our country
 ther or net these islands ure restored to Jupun, but we, for our part,
lave lot the leurt to sit idle, watching the distress of those people con-
cermed. , rupresentin the peopie of onkaido, therefore by the resolu-
tion of the cenerul meeting of the : okkaido Tons und villages council,
respectfully sclicit your xcuilency's speci-l consideration for the restor-
ution of the Iupcrai Isitnis und the Islanls of torcfu and Kunashiri to the
territory of Jepun.
I Y
Chuirman of Lokkaido
Towns and Villuges Council.

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.92)
懇
願
書
7480
Enclosure0.
(T)

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.99)
甲

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.91)
懇願す了
めらる、よう格別の御同情と御高配を賜わりたく謹んでこれを
經之齒舞諸島及擇捉島並國後島を日本國領土復歸也
全道住民を代表す我等は二に北海道町村會總會の議決を
重大問題であるっみなうず關係住民の苦難を見るに忍ひなので
以上の諸點より二れ等附屬諸小島が復歸すると否とは將來わか國の
五之等諸小島日今猶數千名の島民加居住監禁七5北一部脫出
影を眺めて毎日その安否を氣遺ひつあり
せのは一家離散 交通は全く杜純し朝夕指呼の間にある島
重要漁場下日本人蛋自給源生產重大問題下あ了
北海道全國水產約三分の一鮭鱒蟹鯉昆布貝柱等
昭和二十二年九月五日

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.88)
D-34
45
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, October 71947
NORTHAST ASIAN AFFAURS
1.0. 1313
DIVISION OF OCCUPIED AREAS
OCT 1 71947
EGONOMIC AREARS
OCT 211947
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
C: runs ittal of a neport Containing a List on
'istoric sites, scenic spots and Natural
: istory . reserves in Jupan.
he Jounselor or : ission has the honor to forward
under -e urute cover, live copies of a list of histori
sites, seenic t, u nutural histery preserves in
Jupaln, duted ugust 7, l9a6, prepared by the civil
Ior. t i n ud uucation scction of this Headquarters
1114
1E
inclosures (under sepurate cover):
Five copies of a List of
1
istoric sites, scenic pots,
and 'atural listory .reserves
in Japun, .ugust 7, 1946.
OCD
tu1. P.l
Original and ozald to Department.
020
RiBushner:mm
RECEIVED
OCT,281047
FILED
J
PARTEN
C
1947 0
()

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.94)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMIANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Civil Information and Education Section
Anlysis and Researoh Division
TRANSLATION
7 Auust 1946
Serial Nwnber: R-231-CR-E-1
SUBJECT
List. of Historic.Sites, Scenic Spots, and
Natural History Preserves in Japan
PREPARED BY : Cultural Resourdes Research
INDEX
I. Preface
p. 3
II. Explination of Teras and Abbrevictions
p• 5
III. Statistics: Historic Sites, Scenic Spots,
Natural History Preserves
0
A. Totals for Japan . .
p. 6
5
B. Totuls by Prefecture
p. 7
IV. List of Historic Sites, Scenic Spots. Natural
History Preserves:
Hokiaido
p. 9
homori
p. 12
Iwate
p. 13
Miyagi
p. 16
Alita
p. 18
Yaungata
p. 20
Fukushina
•p. 21
Ibaraki
p. 25
Tochigi
p. 26
Gumma
p. 29
Saitame
p. 32
Chiba
p. 34
Tokyo
p. 36
Kanagawa
p. 40
Niigata
p. 42
Toyama
p. 48
Ishikawa
p. 50
Fukui
p. 51
Yamenashi
p. 54
Nagano
p. 57
Gifu
p. 61
Shizuoka
D. 64
• - Material in Seotions I and II is introdustory and
was written by the researcher, Remainder of report
was trans lated fran indicated sourees.

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.91)
AR-231-CR-B21
Aichi
p. 68
Mio
p. 72
Shiga
p. 74
Kyoto
p. 78
Osaka
Hy250
85
No.ra
p.
87
Halayrun
p.
92
Tottori
p. 93
Shinane
p. 94
Okayan
p. 98
Hirosnime.
p. 101
Ymaguchi
p. 103
Tokust.ime
p. 108
Kgawa
p. 103
Ehine
p. 110
Kochi
p. lll
Fukuoka
p. 112
Suga
p. 116
Nagasaki
p. 117
u.moto
p. 118
Oit
P. 120
Kagoshinn
p. 122
Miyezeki
p. 124
Quer vo Prefectures
p. 127
Uncorain
p. 130
Removed Designation
p. 132
V. Scurces
p. 133

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.97)
I.
Soon after the Meiji Restoration, the Japanese'te
servation of famous or unusual localities. mas
on by the national government.. This responsibility wms delegetee 
the Preservation Section of the Ministry of Education (Hoson-lm. Mon
busho). At the same time, laws and regulations were made under which
the Ministry of Education designated and registered every site thought
worthy of special care and protection. Huntinc was forbidden in the
areas containing important spacies of wild-life, and cutting s for-
bidden in those areas containing important spacimens of plant-life.
Areas were and continue to be placarded as under the care of the Min-
istry of Educetion: and caretakers usually were employed.
Laws no effoct regarding administration of Historic Sit.
Scenic Spots, and Natural History Preserves are as followas
Law for Preservation of Historic Sites, Soenic Spots and
Natural History Preserves, #44, 1919
Enforcement of Laws for Preservation of Historic Sites.
Scenic Spots and Natural History Preserves, #499. 1919
Regulations for Preservation of Historic Sites, Soenic
Spots, Natural History Preserves, #27, 1919
Regulations for the Investigation Cammittee of Historio
Sites, Scenic Spots, Natural History Preserves, #397, 1936
Regulations for Proceadings of the Committae for Investi-
gation of Historic Sites, Soenic Spots, Natural History
Preserves, Ministry of Eduoation Register, 1936
Classifications of Historio Sites, Scenic Spots, Natural
History Preserves, #51, 1920
Principal Sites to be Preserved in This Classification,
Ministry of Home Affairs Decision, 1920.
Certificates of Members of the Committee for Investigation
of Historic Sites, Soenic Spots, and Natural History
Preserves, #209, 1921
Items in the Racords of Historic Sites, Soenic Spots. Matural
History Preserves, Ministry of Home Affairs Decision, 1920
Established Ragulation of the Ministry of Education on Historic
Sites. Soenic Spots, and Naturel History Preserves:
Control of Matters Relating to Preservation of
Historic Sites, Sosnic Spots, Matural Hissory
Preserves, #81, 1928

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.96)
Photographs of Historic Sites, Seenic Spots.
Preserves, #48, 1922
Use of Nati onal Parks, #91, 1931
Admintstrators of Historic Sites, Soenic Spots, matural
Preserves, #29. 1937
Institutions for Preservation of Historic Sites. Soonio Spots,
Natural History Preserves. #7, 1925s #73. 1936;.#7. 1936
Selection of Natural History Preserves. #8, 1928
Granting Medals to Japanese Dogs, #26, 1937
Funds from Historic Sites. Scenic Spots. Natural History
Preserves, #1, 1925
Preservation Laws Appliad to Imperial Estates. #5. 1924
Transfer of Control of Sites, #1, 1923
National Properties Supervisad by the Ministry o Ho-a
as Authorized by the Preservation Laws, #52, 1929
National Toperties Supervised by the Ministry of Education
as Autorized by the Preservation Laws, #22, 1929..
Stateent of Increase and Decrease of National Properties
Authorized as Sites. #842, 1930
Treatment of National Properties, #162, 1930
Control of National Property Belonging to Universities,
Colleges, Li braries, Ministry of Education Register, 1922
Differences Between Public and Privato Property Control,
#99.1922
Report of Discovery of Ancient Tombs. #59. 1874
Report on Discovery of Ancient Tombs on Private Property,
#3.1880
Archeological Finds as Materials for Study. #985. 1899
Arcieological Finds Preserved by Prefectures. #221, 1901
Archeological Finds Preserved by Prefacturas. #222. 1901
of Tombs for Anthropological Study. #410. 1901
Exoavation of Mausolea, #17. 1901
Mausolea Exoavated by Imperial Universities, #1339., 1902
Moving of Exoavated Articles to Universities, #655. 1908
Handling of Exoavated Articles by University Professoras
#11.1908
ton of Mausolea. #2653. 1913

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.95)
AR-231-0R-2-1
Discovery and exeavation of Mausolee.
Construction of Cable Railmmys, #22, 1928
Cutting .Trees in Compounds of Shrinas end Temples.
#235.1873
Construction of Monuments at Sitoo or Mausolea,
#115，1898
Shapes of Monuments Above Desoribed. #18, 1900
Law for idvertisements, #70, 221, 1911
National Forest Laws, #85. 1899; #43. 1907
Town Planning Law. #36. 1919
Re-adjustment of Rice Fields Law. #30. 1909
Laws and Regu lations on fluntins. #32, 1918; #28. 1919
Maintenance and Repair of Roads, #15, 1921
Incon. Ccm Trees on Sites. 116, 1900
Miscoll s
les Regarding Cataloguo of Shrine Gods, Desoription.
-Type of Notices, Transfer. etc. of hrines, #6, 1913
Regulations on City Building, #438, 1920
Iaw of Petition. #105, 1890
II. EXPLANATION OF TERMS AND ABBREVIATIONS:
The following abbreviations have been used:
H S
Historic Sites
S S
Sconic Spots
N H P
Natural History Preserves
B
Designated because of unusual Botanical
Spacimens
Designated because of unusual Zoological
Specimens
Dasignated because of unusual Mineral-
gical Spacimens
Designated because of unusual Geoloziosl
formation
These abbreviations will be found in the colums of the main list
under "Clazsification" and "Rescon for Designationa"

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.94)
AR-231-00-2-1
III. STATISTICN)
A. ALL JAPAN (31 Dacomber 1944)
Historic Sites
Soenic Spots
205
Natural History Presorves ..
Total. . .1.943
2.
Historic Sitos are those areas or structures deemed by the pert
of the Ministry of Education to be worthy of preservation because of
their historic significance, and often relate to members of the Imperial
family.
Scenic Spots aro those localities vhich have been deemad partie
ularly beaut:1l.  which aro celebrated in Japanese musio or litere-
turc.
Nat l istory Proserves aro those designated areas in which are
plants, nimals, or mineralogical spacimons and formations are found.
In some casos the tem is applied to certain protected animals, as in
the case o the Japanese antelope. When this happens, the area listed
is usually designatad as uncortain or indefinite.
A combination of two or all three types of areas is often found
in one locality, but for the purpose of this report. the main claasi-
fication :s usad.

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.98)
HISTORIC
SOENIC
LOCATION
SITES
Hokkaido
18
1
25
Aomori
11
2
4
17
Iwate
11
6
31
48
Miyagi
15
5
17
37
Aldta
12
1
10
23
Yamagata
14
3
4
21
Fulausniza
32
3
25
60
Ibaraki
22
1
5
28
Tochigi
33
1
7
41
Gunma
30
4
16
50
Saitama
15
2.
10
27
Chiba
17
0
13
30
Tokyo
41
5
20
66
Kanggawa
24
3
8
35
Niigata
51
5
24
80
Toyama
16
0
12
28
Ishikaw
10
4
15
29
Fuai
28
9
9
46
Yamanashi
9
3
35
47
Nagano
30
3
22
55
Gifu
20
2
35
57
Shisuoke
17
7
26
50
Aichi
29
4
26
59
M10
24
3
15
42
shige
32
13
15
60
Exoto
50
18
12
23
●
5
23
3
36
46
25

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.99)
291-0R-2-1
HISTORIC
ao
LOCATION
SITES
Okayama
28
10
10
Hiroshim
11
4
11
26
Yanaguchi
31
8
48
87
Tokushima
1
2
8
11
Kagawa
a
4
8
20
Ehimo
4
8
8
20
Kochi
5
5
15
25
Fukuokn
36
2
16
54
Saga
5
1
10
16
Nagasaid
7
1
12
20
Kumamoto
16
5
17
38
Oita
19
1
12
32
Miyuzak.
10
8
19
37
Kagoshima
13
5
18
36
Two Prefocturo
3
3
17
23
or more
Uncertain
0
0
26
26
TOTAL
951
205
787
1,943

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.96)
IV. LIST OF HISTORIC SITES. S
REASON
CLASSI-
FOR
NAME
PICITION DESIG
HOKKAIDO
Temiya Dokutsu
H.S.
H.S.
Mar. 1921 Otaru City
Timiye 
(Temiya Cave)
Otaru City
Akanko no Marino
IH.H.F.
B.
Akan Village
Akan Village.
(Unusual Duckweed
Akan-gun
in Lake kan)
Atsukeshiko Kaijima
B.
Atsukeshi
Atsukeshi Town-
no Shokubutsu Gunraku
Township
ship
(Unusual Plant Area at
Atsukeshiko Kaki jima)
Shiriheshi no Kozan
B.
Hokkaido
Abuta-gun
Shokaeerea-tar (ripine
Government
Plant Zone of Shiri-
heshi)
Nohoro Gonehirin
n
B.
Ebetsu Township.
(Nohoro Primeval Forost)
Sapporo-gun
Maruyam Gersnirin
B.
Moiwe Village.
(Maruyann P1in va1
Sapporo-gun
Forest)
Moiwa Gunshirin
B.
(Moiwa Primeval
Forest)
Goryokalau (Ruins of
H.S.
H.S.
Oct。 1922
Hukodate
Kame da.
Goryokaku Castle)
City
Hakodate City
Asunaro Jisei Hokugen
N.H.P.
B.
Hokkaido
Rsashi Township.
Chitai (Northorn Limit
Government
Hiyama-gun
Zone of Wild Hatchet-
leavad Arbor-Vitae)
Todomatsu Jisei Nangen
B.
Chitai (Southern Limit
Zone of Wild Fir "Abies
Sachalinensis")
Shizukari Deitan Kaisei
B.
Oshamanbe Village
Shokubutsu Gunraku
Yamm koshi-gun
(Stand of Plants which
formed Shizukari Peat
Bog)
Kiritappu Deitan Keisei
B.
Hamanaka Village
Shokubutsu Gunraku
Atsukeshi-gun
(Stand of Plants which
formad Kiritappu Peat
Bog)
Noboribetsu Genshirin
B.
Dac. 1924
Harobetsu vill
(Noboribetsu Primeval
Horobetsu-
Forest)
Usuragawa Goyonomatsu
1.
Feb. 1928
Jissi Hokugen Chitai
Hiya
(Northerm: Limi't Sone
of Wild Pimus Penta-
wlle at Usuregama)

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.97)
AR-231-0R-2-1
REASON
DATE
CLASSI-
FOR
ADMDNES"
FICATIONDEBIG.DEBIG.
TRATOR
Hirau Goyonomatau
N.H.P.
B.
Fob. 1928 Hokaido
Samani Village.
Jisei Hokagen Chitai
Government
Samani-gun
(Northern Limit Zone
of Wild Pinus Penta-
phylla at Hirau)
Omijunagidori hansho-
z.
Mar. 1928
Oshima Village.
(Nesting Aroa of Leu-
Matsunae-gun
comelas Puffin or
Shearwater (Puffinus
Leucamelas)
Utazai Buna Jisei
B.
Dac. 1928
Kuronatsunai
Village, Suttsu-
Hokugenkai Utazai
(Northern Linit Zone
gun
of the Wild Boech)
Meiji Tenno Supporo
H.S.
HS.
Jov. 1933 Sapporo City Kitashiohijo.
Sapporo City
Gosho Koijyo (Emporor
Meiji's Resting Place
in Sapporo)
Meiji Tenno Shimamatau
Hiroshima
Hiroshima Village.
Anzaisho (Empuror )ji's
Villago
Sapporo-gun
Place of Sojourn ot
Shimamatsu)
Meiji Tenno Hakuseinwa
Shichihan
Shichihan Village,
Gosho Keijo (Emperor
Village
Kameda-gun
Meiji s Rostin3 Place
in Hakusainn)
Moiji Tenno Sappcro
Sapporo
Nishi-Itchame,
Anzaisho (Emperor
City
Odori, Sapporo
City
Meiji's Placa of So-
journ at Sapporo)
Shiryokaku (Ruins of
Jan. 1934
Kameda
Kameda Village.
Shiryokaku Castic)
village
Kaneda-gun
Motomuroran Nanbuhn
May 1934
Muroran City
Jinya Towns hip.
Muroran City
Ginya-ato (Ruins o
Nanbuhan's Camp in
Motomuroran)
Shinorikan-ato (Ruins
Aug. 1934 Zonigamezawa Zenigamezawa
of Shinori MEnmion)
-Village..Kameda-
gun
Matsumae Bugyojo-ato
Dec. 1934 Matsumae
Matsumme Township.
(Ruins of Matsumae
Township
Matsumae-gun
Magistrate's Offico.)
Fukyama-jo
June 1935
(Fulayama Castle)
Kushiro Tanchosuru
N.H.P.
Aug. 1935
Hokkaido
Kshiro Village,
Hanshokuchi (Nesting
Government
Kushiro-gun:
Shibetou Village
Area of the Japanese
ano in Eushiro)
H.B. Deo. 1935 Mushiro
City

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.95)
Cheranks
ranke Fort in Torigatalm)
Katsuragaoka Chashi
(Ruins of Ratsuragaoka
Fort)
Harutoru Kaichi Tate-
Kushiro City
anagun (Group of Pits
on Harutoru Plateau)
Soya Gokokuji-ato
Soya Village
(Ruins of Gokokuji
(Tomple) in Soya)
Meiji Tenno Mori Anzai-
Nov. 1936 Mori Town-
sho-ato oyobi Go-Jori-
ship
kushi, (Emperor Meiji's
Landing Place and Place
of Sojourn at Mori)
Moyoro Kizia (Mor
Dac. 1936.. Abashiri
Abashiri
Shell Mound;
Township
ship.
gun
Harutoru ko hitun Soi-
N.H.P.
2.
Dac. 1937 Kushiro City Mushiro C
sokuchi (Harutoru Lako,
Habitat of the Scarlet
carp)
Teure-giru icho Han-
Z.
Aus. 1938 Dept. af
Teure villay
shokuchi (Teuro-gima.
Hone Arfairs
Tamamae-gun
Sea-bird Nesting Grounds)
Tento-zan (Tento Hill) S.S.
S.S. Dec. 1938 Abashiri
Abashiri
Township
Abashiri
Nakatonbetsu Shorrudo
N.H.P.GM.
Nakatonbetau
Nakatonl
(Nakatonbetsu Sta.-
Village
Villag
tite Cave)
gun
Appori-dake Kozan Shoku-
B.
Sept. 1939 Hoklaido
butsu Gunraku (4ppori-
Government
dake. Stani of Alpino
Plants)
Nayoro Suzuichi (Nayoro
GM.
Nayoro Town-
Bell-shapad Stone)
ship
Nayoro Koshi Kozo
(Cliff at Nayoro)
Nemuro Muruma-:shi
(Nemuro Round Stone)
Peb. 1940

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.92)
A5-23200-2-1
PEASON
DATE
CLASSI-
FICATION DEIG.DESID.
abura-jima Umineko
N.H.P.
z.
Mar. 1914 Hachinohe
Hanehokichi (Kabura-
City
Hachinohe City
jima, Larus Crassivos-
tivis Vioillot - Black-
tailed Gull Nosting
Grounds)
Higashitaugaru H.ucho
Z.
Kominato
Kominato Town-
Tor ieni (Hi pshi tou-
To.msi.ip
ship. Higashi-
ruL
tsugaru-gun
Horyo no Ksor ju
II
Oct. 1
T wada
Towuda Village,
(Gingko-true in Hory)
Villago
Kamikita-gun
Meiji Tenno Hachino
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1936
Hachinoo
Horibata,
Anzaisho oyobi Kyushi
City
Hachinoe City
(Emporor Meiji's Placo
of Sojourn and its Ro-
mins in Hachinoe)
B-53F-23-J
Meiji Tenno Sanbongi
santongi.
Sanbongi Townshin,
Anzaisho (nperor
Tosnwhip
Kamikita-gun
Meiji's Placo co
journ.in Sanbongi)
Moiji Tenro Gono: 
Gonoo Town-
Gonoe Tomship.
zaisho (Ea,eror M iji's
ship
Sannae-gun
Place of Sujourn in
Gone)
Meiji Tenno Yawatazaki
Nov. 1934 Saruga
Saruga-Village,
Goshokoijc (Emporoc
Village
Minamitsugaru-gun
Meiji's Pesting Place
in Yawatazaki)
Meiji Tonno Oshaka Go-
Osugi Village Osugi Village.
shoksijo (Emporor Meiji's
Minamitsugaru-gun
Resting Place in Cshaka)
Saruga no Uojobi Sgi N.H.P.
Dec. 1935 Saruga
Saruga Village.
Hanshokuchi. Snowy Heron
Shrine
Minamitsugaru-gun
and Cormorant Nesting
Grounds in Saruga)
Moiji Tanno omori Go- H.S.
H.S. Apr. 1937 Aomori City Shinhama Towmship.
josen Marotini Go-joriku
40mori dity
Sanbashi-ato (Remains of
-HO-TS-
Pier in Acmori, from which
Emperor Moiji Landed and
Deperted)
s.s.
3.3. Dee. 1997 Hechinobe
me Coast)
City
H.S.
HS. June 194h Nos given

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.93)
No-jiro-ato
H.S.
(Ruine of ite Castle)
Shichonobe
Shichinohe Jyoshi
Towns hip
(Ruins of Shichinohe
Castle)
IWATH
Motau-ji-ato, (Ruins
H.S.
H.S.
Oot. 1929 Hiraizumi
Hiraisumi vill
village
Nishi-dwai
of Motsu-ji (Tomplo)
Muryokoin-ato (Ruins
of Muryokoin (Tamplo)
Sakuragawm
Sakauragawa
Izawa-jo-shi (Ruins
Village
Isama-gun
of Izawn Castle)
Aorioka Ishiwari Zalra N.H.P.
B.
Mar, 1923
Dopt. of
Nio. Morioke City
Justico
(Morioka Stone Broaking
Chorry Troe)
3hidare Kazura
B.
Doo. 1924
Nano
vil.lage.
Shilm Morioka Cisy.
Nakano Villago"
(deeping Japaneso
Morioka City
Iwa to-g un's Otobe
Judas Tros)
Village, Shikm-
teibi Koi (Geibi
s.s.
ss.
Oct. 1925
Matsukawa
Matsukam Villa
village.
Nagasaka Villa
Valley)
Nagasake
village
Sazuguri jisei-chi
N.H.P.
B.
Apr. 1927
Oma
Oyamada Villago.
v_llago
Waka-gun
(Habitat of Wild Kazu-
Chestnut Troo)
Itsukshi Kei
(Itsukuahi Vally)
N.H.P.
s.s.
GM.
S.S.
Sept. 1927 Itsukushi
village
Itsuirshi villa
Nishi-immi-gun
Uchi.kauame villag
ayaohino-yan Konn
B.
Jan. 1928 Dopt. of
griculture
Hienuku-gun
ihokubutsu-tai Mt.
ayachine. Alpine
?lant Zone)
Takizam ville
wateyama Kozan Shoku
B.
Iwate-gun
utau-tai (iveteyama
lpine Plant Zom)
hogenin no Saka-Gas hi
B.
Dao. 1929. Shogen-in
(Templo)
Shogenin (Tample) in-
ortad Cak)
.chookm no Kosonju
B.
Fob. 1931 Junilabura
village
Ginko Tree in Ichookm)
Chosenji
hosenji no Daikmsonju
B
(Templo)
Giant Ginko Tree as
hosenji (Tomple)
xano Chosi Krutalas
H.S.
H.S. Apr. 1933
Takano Choei's Old

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.92)
AR-291-0R-8-1
CLASSI-
Shimofunato Misuka
HS.
H.S. Jan. 1934
ofunato
(Shimofunato Sholl
Township
Mound)
Takonoura Kaizuka
Alasald
Alasaid Village.
(Takonoure Shell Mound)
Village
Eosen-gun
Nakazawahama Kizuka
June 1934
Hirota
Hirota village
(Naiazawahama Shell
village
Dbsen-gun
Mound)
Taubakigime Umineko
N.H.P.
Z.
Dec. 1934
Hanshokichi (Tsubald-
jima. Larus Crassi-
vostvis Viuillot
Black-tailed Gull
Nesting Aroa)
Hanawazutsumi Hana-
B.
Apr. 1935 Miyaname
Miyaname Village,
shoku Gunraku (Stand
Village
xlonuid-gum
-S3-H--T
of Wild Iris in Hana-
wazutsumi)
Kanaya Fenho.   
B.
Yum
Yumoto Village.
(Stand or Wild Iris in
Viliage
Hienukd-gun
Kmnaya)
unoo Jo...i. (R. a of
HS.
H.S.
June 1935
Fukuoka
Fukuoka Tomship.
Kunoe Cas ilo)
Township
Ninoe-gun
Sanganjima Cmizunagi- N.H.P.
Z.
Dac. 1935
Uzunii
Uzumii Villas
Village
Kumihei-gun
dori oych. Himekuroumi
tsubamo Ianshokichi
(Sanganjima, Nosting rea
of Puffin r Shear-
water and Himekuro Petrel
(Puffinus Leucomelas)
Hinode-jimm Kuroke-
Z.
Sakiyama
Sakiyam Village,
Village
Shimotojii-gun
shijiro Unitsuhame
Hanshoku-chi (Hiuodo-
jima. Aurokoshijiro
Petrel Nesting rea)
Kasoji ro Hojumatsu
B.
asoji
Otamo Village..
(Temple)
Dese-gan
(Hoju. Pire at Kazoji
(Temple)
1S31-CH-1
Rywkokaji no Marioka-
B.
Sept. 1936 Ryukokuji
Mitahwari.
shidare (Moriokm Woep-
(Tompla)
Moriolm-City
Ing Tree in Ryukolauji
(Temple)
agishino midltsubata
Moriola City
mmraka. (stand of wild
ris Albropurpurea at
Dee. 1936

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.92)
AM-231-09-8-1
CLASSI
LICATIO
Goishi migan
s.s.
3.8. Juno 1937
(Goishi Coast)
N.H,P.
GM.
Iwaizuni Yukutsu oyobi N..P.
山.
Deo. 1938
Imaisumi
Komori (Iweizumi Cavo
Township
and Bata)
Jishoji no Kosonju
B.
Jishoji
Ichonoo-To
(Ginko Trae at Jisho-
(Tumple)
ji (Tample)
Fujishima no Fuji
B
Kotoriyu
Kotoriya vall
(Wistaria in Fujishima)
village
Ninos-gun
Meiji Tenno Shibutami H.S.
H.S.
Sopt. 1939 Shibutami
Shibutand villa
Anzaisho (Enperor Noiji's
Villago
Iwateu
Place of Sojourn in
Shi Butami)
Tategasakd Kakuiva.
.N.H.P. G.M.
Suezhld
Suésald villa
Ganmyaku (Tategasald
village
Kesen-gun
Square Stcne Dyko)
Saldyama-mura no Shio
Sakiyamm
Sakiyana Village.
fuldiana (Blow. Hoi in
villago
Shimotojii-gun
Saldyam Villag:)
Sakiyam-mura no Ro-
oku-iwa (Candle Stono
in Saldyam Village)
Kuzuneda no Civaya
Feb. 1943 Not given
Nishiyama Villag
(The Great Cave of
Iwato-gun
Kuz uno da)
Sangojima (Coral
S.3.
S.S. Aug. 1943
Ofunato Toumshipe
Island)
Kesen-gun
Yaibashiri Yoganryu
N.H.P.
GM.
Nov. 1944
Tagashira Villags
(Yaibashiri Lava Jlow)
Iwato-gun
Takada Matsubara.
ss.
S.S. Nov. 1940
Talada.
Takada Township,
(Takada Pine Grove)
Township,
Eesen Tomship.
Kosen Towm
Kosen-gan
ahip
Aneobi, Kotoriya, Ne- N.H.P.
G.M.
Fob. 1941
Dept. of
Amobi Village.
zari no K ilaboki
Home Affaira
Otoya village,
Chitai (Petrified
Namiuehi villas
Wood. Zone of Aneobi,
31
Ninoo-gun
Kotóriya and Nosori)
Geyu Casun no Sekimi-
Dept. of
Im (Caleareous Sinter
Agriculture
in Goyu-spa)
Mamiuchi-toge no Ko-
Aus. 1941 mamiuchi
Villaee

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.92)
AR-231-0R-2-1
CLAI
PICATIO
Otamo Haiaseho Tora.
N.H.P.
Doo. 1941 Dept. 
ichi (Otomo, Swan
Home Árfnirs Bset
Habitat)
MIYAGI
Kyu Yokando (Old
H.S.
H.S. Mar. 1922 Miyagi
Sagiatedai-dori.
Yokondo House)
Prefacture
Sandai City
Mutsu Kokubunji-ato
Oct. 1922 Senda1 City
Kinoshita To
(Ruins of Mutsu Koku-
Sondai City
bunji (Tomple)
Tagajo-shi, fu Taga-
Tagajo
Tagajo Village.
ji-ato (Ruins of Taga
village
Castle and Tagaji
(Templo)
Matsushim (Pino
S.S.
S.S. Mar. 1923 Miyagi Pre-
Miyagi-gun,
Islands)
fecture
Manou-gun
Gov. of
Agriculture
Kyujo Senrycai-gan
N.H.P. GM.
Shiralawa
Shiralawa Village.
(Ball-shipud Diorite
village,
Otakasara Villago.
Rook For. ation)
Otalasawa
Dtta-gun
Villago
Ryugaoka (Sakura)
s.s.
S.S. Dac. 1924 Miyagi Pro-
Ryugaoka Township.
(Ryugaoki (Cherry
facturo,
Sendai City
Blossans)
Dopt. of War
Kuchiku ro Koson'u
N.H.P.
B.
Oct. 1926 Sendai City
Kuchiku Haramachi,
(Ginko Treu in Kuchiku)
Sendai City
Naruko Kyo
S.s.
S.S.
Oot. 1932 Narukó Town-
Naruko Township.
(Naruko Valley)
ship, Dept.
Tamtsuari-gun
of Agrioul-
turé
Kyu. Yubikan oyohi
HS.
H.S.
teb. 1933
Privato
Iwaideyama Township
Teien (Former Yubi
S.S.
S.s.
Owner
Tamatsukri-gun
Mansion and Garden)
Yutorimura Tatsugyo
N.H.P.
Z.Apr. 1933 Dept. of
Miyasald Village,
Seisakuch, (Yutori
Agriculture
Onoda Village.
Swamp. ubit a
Dami-sun
Tetmugyo (Name of Fish,
Iron Fish)
Onilabe-mura Mogama
M.G.
cyobi Ogaa Manitsu
Onsen (Onikobe Village
Sagame & Ogama Intormit-
Hot Spwing)
f4
mj Tenno Matoushima H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1933
Zuiganji
riMeiji'a.
(Tample)

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.95)
AR-231-08-8-1
CLASSI-
Rikasen Enoshimm Umi- N.H.P.
Z.
June 1934
Township
neko Hanshokuchi
(Riksen Enoshima Larus
Crassivostives Visilla
(Black-tailed Gull)
Nesting Arua)
Oharamura no Zaimokuiwa
G May 1934
Ohara Village
Ohara Villag
mtta-mn
(Wood-like Rook in
Oham Village)
Anedaki (Ane Water
Aug. 1934 Dept. of
Akiho Village
Fall)
Agriculture
Natori-gun
Meiji Tenno Furukava
H.S.
HS.
Nov. 1934
Furukawa
Puruknma Vill
Villago,
Shida-an
Anzaisho (Emperor Meiji's
Pla∞ of Sojourn in
Furuknwa)
Private
agino Villaga
Maiji Tunno rikabe
Goshokeijo (Emperor
Owner
Dribara-gin
Moiji's Resting Pla∞
in Arikabe)
Meiji Tenno Saikaua
Saikma
Sai kame Village.
Village
Katta-gun
Goshokei jo (Earor
Meiji's Resting Pa
in Saikava)
Yokoyam-mura Ugui Sei-
Aug. 1935
Daitokuji
Yokoyama village.
(Temple)
Motoyoshi-gun
sokuchi (Yoroyarn Village,
Dace (Freshwator Fish)
Hnbitat)
Nov. 1935
Daigyoji
Matsushima Township.
Meiji Tonno Toyama
(Templo)
Miyagi-gun
Goshokeijo (Emperar
Meiji's Resting Place
in Toyam)
Masuda Tom- Masuda Township
Meiji Tenno Masuda
ship
Natori-gun
Goshokeijo (Emperor
Meiji's Resting Placa
in Masuda)
July 1936 Talakama
Iwanume Township.
Meiji Tenno Iwanuma
Shrine
Natori-gun
Ansaisho (Emperor Meiji's
Place of Sojourn in
Iwanuma)
Muiji Temo Tsulcidate.
Aug. 1938 Private
Tsukida te T
Ansaisho Cmmperor Meiji's
Owner
Krihare
Plase of Sojourn in
Tauicida te)
N.H.P.
Fob. 1940 Sawabe
village

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.93)
AR-231-0R-8-1
Akdu Otald
s.s.
8.3. Mar. 1942 Akdu Villago
(u Great Falls)
Hayashi Shihei Haka
HS.
H.S. July 1942 Sendai City
Isedoshitae
Sondai City
(Tomb of Shihei Hayashi)
Chara Village Chare Village
Ohara no Saikachi
N.H.P.
B.
Latta-n
(Honey Locust Tree in
Ohara)
Ohara no Kantomayumi
B.
(Evergreen Shrubs (Evo-
nymus Sieboldianus) af
Gbara)
Chosen Uue
B.
Sept. 1942 Dopt. of
Gyojinukm.
(Karoen Plum Troe)
Justi∞
Sendai City
Yokoguranoki Hokagen
B.
Oct. 1942 Not given
Ohara Village.
matta-gun
Ghitai (Northern Limit
Zone of the Yokogura Trec)
Ohara no Hidarim:ki.
B.
my (Lft-wisiu
Totreya Txeo of Ohara)
Ohara no Kotsubagaya
B.
Feb. 1943
(Small Torreya Tree of
Obara)
Shameiji no Hinokd
B.
Aug. 1943
Matari Townshipe
Watari-gun
(Jamneso Cypress at
Shameiji (Tomple)
Meiji Tenno Ichikiwa
H.S.
H.S. June 1944
Tagajo villago.
Miyagi-gun
Goshokeijo (Emperor
Meiji's Resting Place
in Ichikawa)
AXITA
Thzawa Village
Holuto-seki (Hokuto- N.H.P. G.M. Oot. 1922 Dept. of
Agriculturo
Senhoku-gun
lite (Radium Ore) Stone)
Deo. 1924 Kosaka Town-
Kosa in Township.
Funsen-to
ship
msuno-gun
(Fountain Tower)
Jijyo Keiseki oyobi
Dopt. of
Funsento (Fish-roe
Agricul ture
Tower)
t Fomagatake Kosan
B. Peb. 1926 Ihonai
sai (Wdit

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.93)
AR-231-0R-B-2
CLM
TICATIONL
Jindai Puji
N.H.P.
B.
Oot. 1928 Yawate
(Aneient Wistaria)
Slirine
Naso no Hakubakukoku
ss.
S.S. Mar. 1932 Kamigo
Dauaigo
(White Water Fall
village
Yuri-n
VaHley at Naso)
Meiji Tonno Takanosu
HS.
HoS. Nov 1933 Tknosu
Talanosu
Anzaisho (Emperor Moiji's
Towaship
Xitaaldita.
Place of Sojourn in
Takanosu)
Meiji Tenno Miyukijo
Furukawa Com- Innai Towmship.
Innai Miyuki-ko (Mine in
pany: For-
Ogachi-gun
Innai Visited by Emperor
estry Dapart-
Moiji)
mont
Meiji Tonno Innai Ono-
dachi-jo (Emperor Moiji's
Pield Haadquarters in
Innai)
Zarigani Suicolachi
N H.P.
Z.
Feb. 1934 Odate
Odato Township.
(Crawfish Hbitat)
Township
Kitaaldta-gun
Kisagatu
MG.
Kisagata
Kisagata Towmship.
(Remains of Inlet)
Tomship
Yuri-gun
Hirata Atsutano Haka
H.S.
H.S.
May 1934
Akita City
Tegata, Adta City
(Tomb af tsutano
Hirata)
Meiji Tenno Jinguji
Nov. 1934 Jirzuji
Jinguji Tonahiss
Anzaisho Eaperor Meiji's
Township
Senhokau-gun
Place of Sojourn in
Jinguji).
Meiji Teno Yatato An-
Yatato
Yatate Townshi
zaisho (Emero Moiji's
Towmship
Ki taald ta -gun
Place of Sojourn in
Yatate)
Meiji Tənno Rokugo
Rokugo Town- Rokaugo Townshim
Gosholeijo (Emperor
ship
Senhoku-gun
Meiji's Festing Placa
in Rokugo)
Meiji Tanno Kanazawa
Kanazawa
Danasam Towns
Goshokeijo (Emperar
Township
Benhoiagun
Moiji's Resting Place
in Kanazawa)
Mei ji Tenno Olabo Go
July 1936 Olubo Town-
shokmi jo (Emperor
ship, Enfa-
Meiji's Resting Place
mji (mample)
in Otubo)
Sopt. 1937 Shalmnat

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.93)
AR-231-CR-8-1
CLASSI-
FICATION DEBIL.
'Asumane no Okayald
N.H.P.
B.
0ot. 1926
Asumane
(Giant Zelkova Tree
Township
in Asumne)
Isazama no Kubozakura
B.
Dao. 1924
Isazavm
Isasasa Village.
(Kubo Cherry Treo in
Village
Higashioldtamm-gun
Isasawa.)
Onuma no Ukishima
ss.
S.s. 0ct. 1925
Otani Village.
(Floating Island in
Nishimurayasa-gun
Onume)
Kumano-jinja no Osugi
N.H.P.
B. Apr. 1927
Kamigo
Kanigo village,
(Giant Jupaneso Codar
villago
Nishitagawa-gun
at Kunano Shrine)
Yamadora
s.s.
S.S. Mar. 1932
Yamagata
Yamadera Village.
(Mountain Tample)
HS.
H.S.
Profesture
Higashimurayasaiu
Shirown-saku-ato
HS.
H.S. Apr. 1932
Hondate
Hondate Village.
(Ruins of Shirova Fort)
Village
Ueda village,
Alami-gun
Meiji Tenno Tsuruoka
Nov. 1933
Tauruokn
Babe Township.
Anzaisho (Emparor Meiji's
City
Tauruoka City
Place of Sojourn in
Tsuruoka)
Meiji Tenno Kiyoliwa
Nov. 1933
Kiyokawa
Kiyokawa village.
Anzaisho (Enperor Meiji's
village
Higas..itagawa-n
Place of Scjourn in
Kiyokawa)
Meiji Ténno Takahatake
Nov. 1934
Takaha take
Takaha ta ke Towmshi)
Anzaisho (Emperor Meiji's
Township
Higaahiokitama-sum
Plac∞ of Sojoarn in
Talnhatake)
Meiji Tenno Kaniyama
'Kamiyama
Kamiyama Village,
Goshokmijo (Emporor Meiji's
Village
Minamimurayaun
Resting Plase in Kamiyama)
Meiji Tənno Uruahiyama
Private
Dewa Village.
Goshoksijo (Emperor Meiji's
0.mar
Higashimurayama-gu
Resting Piase in Urushiyamm)
Uesugi Chikan Keishi
June 1935
Haguro
Yamkami Villege
Eogen-shi (Remains of
Shrine
Minamiokitaga-gu
Place where Uesugi Wel-
comed his old Master)
deigi Tanno Daidui
Nov. 1935
nayama
mája (Emporor Maiji's
village
ing Place in Eaidai)
Yokayam Gow
Yokxyama

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.93)
AR-291-0R-8-1
Moiji Tonno Tendo Ansai- H.
H.S. Nov. 1996
Tendé
sha (Emperor Mei ji's Place
of Sojourn in Tondo)
Meiji Tenno Kameoki Go-
Kune okaa
shokeijo (Emperor Meiji's
village
Higashi
Resting Place in Kamooka)
Meiji Tonno Kwni Gosho-
Doo 1927
Kamigo
keijo (Emperor Moiji's
villago
Resting Place in Kawai)
Tobishim Uminoko Han-
N.H.P.
Z.
Deo. 1928
Tobishima
Tobishim V
shokuchi (Black-tailod
village
Alami-gun
Gull Nesting Area in
Tobishim)
Kinpo-zan
s.s.
S.S. Apr. 1941
Kogane
Kogane Vill
(Mt. Kinpo)
village.
Higashit
Yudagawa
Yudagam
Village
Nishitag
FUKUSHIMA
Miharudali-za ara
N₂H.P.
B. . Oct. 1922
Nakago vill
(Miharudaki Cherry Tree)
Tamura-gun
Kinoezulm Kef:in
HS.
H. Mar. 1923
Natsui
Natsui Villa
(Kinoezuki Old Mond)
village
Isik-gun
Azumayama Yaohakusan
N.H.P.
B.
Niwnaaka
Niwasaka Vill
Shaigunage Cisoichi
and 8 other Shinobuo-pin
(Mt. Azuma. Yuebikusan
villages
Alpine Rosc Habitat)
Minamiko Koen
HS.
H.S. Dec. 1924
Shirakava
Shirakam
(Minamiko Park)
S.S.
s.s.
Towmship
Nishishira
Akai Yachi Nuano Shoku- NoH.P.
B.
Mar. 1928
Dept. of
Minato Villa
butou Gunraku (nano,
Agriculture Kitaaizu-sun
3tand of Plants in Akai
(alley)
3hinchi Kaizuka. fu Ten- H.S.
H.S. Feb. 1990
Shinohi
Shinshi Ville
me-jinja-ate (3hinchi
village
Soma-gun
3hell Mound and Ruins of
(ename Syrina)
(abshido Saldibutsu fu
July 1930
Pulaure.
Lmidado Se libutau (Stone
village
Buddha of Yalashido of
imidado)
July 1930
Pulaiura
Villagd
July 1931

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.93)
CLASBI-
TICATIC
Sakmgama no Botan-en
3.9.
S.5. Ost. 1932
Suimgaa
(Feony Garden in Sulagaxa)
Townstiiy
Meiji Tenno Mwano Anzai- H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1933
Koriyema
ho (Emperor Mei ji's Place
City
City
of Sojourn in Kuwano)
Arai no Oyamamomiji
N.M.P.
B. Juno 1934
Private
Nokaauma Villago
(Giant Wild Maple in Arai)
Owner
Tamure-gun
Senzald Yokoana
H.S.
H.S. May 1934
Xawasa ld
mmsakd vill
(Senzaki Cavorn)
Village
Nishishirak
Ryosen
Ishido
Ishido Villago.
(Mt. Ryosen)
33.
s.s.
village,
Ryosen Villags.
Ryosen
Date-gun
Village,
Dopt. of
Agriculture
Khisei-zan (Sa kura)
s.s.
s.s.
Kiseizan
Mhiseisan.
(Kaisei Hiil (Cherry
N.H.P.
B.
Houho-kai
Koriyama City
(Sociuty)
Blossan)
Daizenji no Fuji
N.H.P.
B.
Aug. 1934
Inari
Moriyama Township.
(Wistaria f Daicenji
Shrino
Tamure-gun
(Temple)
Moiji Tanno Miyuld jo
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1934
Sukagawa
Sukagawn Township.
Township
Iwase-gun
Sulogawa Kyu Sanba Gaisha
(Former Horse Brmeding
Farm Visited by Emperor
Meiji in Suragewa)
Private
Otsuld Townahip.
Meiji Tenno Okuradan-
nobara Goshokeijo oyobi
Omer
Asaka-gun
Onodachijo (Emperor Meiji(s
Resting Place and Field
Headquarters in Ckurmdan-
nohara)
Nagamori Village:
Meiji Tenno Sasagawa
Azuchi-gun
Goshokaijo (Emperor Meiji's
Resting Placs in Sasagawa)
Kagamiishi
Magamiishi village.
Meiji Tennc Sasaishi Go-
village
Iwase-gun
shoksijo (Enperor Meiji's
Resting Piaco in Sasmishi)
Meiji Tenno Muraishi Go
shokei ja (Emperor Mei ji's
Resting Place in Kurai..City)
Seiji Tonmo Shira lawa
Private
maisho (Emporor Mei ji's
Owner
of Sojourn in Shiralawe)
Des. 1934
Valamatsu
City

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.93)
AR-231-CR-B-1
PICATION
Ishimoda Myo Seldito
H.S.
H.S. June 1935
mujita
Township
(Ishimoda Stone Tower
Erected ror the Repose
of a Porson's Soul)
Tofuáiji
Sugama vill
Sugama Tofukuji Shari
(Tample)
Ishikawn-gun
Sekito (Sugama Stone
Tower Erected to Presorvo
Buddha 's Ashos)
Nov. 1935
Privato
Motamiye
Meiji Tonno Motomiya
Ownor
Adadhi-s
Anzaisho (Emperor Meiji's
Placo of Sojcurn in
Motoniya)
Munoji
Kuori Townships
Meiji Tenno Kuori Go-
(Tmple)
Dato-gun
shokoijo (Enperor Muijito
Resting Placo in Kuori)
Osasau
Osasau Villege.
Maiji Tunno Sasau Gosho-
Village
3hinobuo-gum
keijo (Emperor Meiji's
Resting Place in Sasev)
Nakno
Nulkano-Villa
Maiji Tenno etaki Co.
r
Village
Shinobu-gun
shokoi jo (Emperor Mi ji:s
Resting Pinco in Gak)
Sugizua
Sugizum ville
Meiji Tenno Fushini
village
Shinobu-gun
Onodachijo (Emperor Miji's
Placo of Field Headqucrters
in Fushihai)
Hi
Hiwada
Hiwada Township
Meiji Teano Yokcmori
Township
Asake-gun
Onodacuijo (Emporor
Meiji's Place of Field
Headquarters in Yokomori)
Dec. 1935
Nihonmatsu Nihonmatsu Townshi
Kyu Nihonmatau Hankai
Towrship
Adachi-cun
Seldimeiho (Maxin Stono
Monument of Fomer Nihon-
matsu Clan)
B.
Sonri
Sonri villd
Inawashiroko Mizusugi- N.H.P.
villago.
Oshima vill
Goke Gunraku (Lake Inn-
Oshima
Yama -gun
mshiro, Flant roa of
Villoge
Spacial Moss (Sphagnum)
Meiji Tenno Goko-jo
H.S.
H.S. July 1936
Nihonmatsu
Township
Nihonmatsu Seishi-gaisha-
ato (Ruins of Silk-reeling
Factory where Emperor
Meiji Visited)
Sulagama Ighirizuka
H.S.
H. Sept. 1936 Dept. of
HOmG
(Sukngama lile Stone)
Arsairs
N.HAP.
D1996

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.94)
CLASSI-
PICATION
malmmato no Shidare- N.H.P.
B. June 1997
mondji (deeping Maple
village
in makakamato)
Moiji Tenno Shirakama
H.S.
H.S. Dec. 1937
Shire kam
Gyokojo (Eaperor Moiji's
Township
Visiting Place in Shira-
kam)
Yoneyamji Kyozuka
HS.
Nishibularo Nishibularo To
(Yoneyamaji (Tample)
Township Iwass-gun
Mound)
Ayudakd Tosonba-ate
Tatoukoyamm Tatsukoyam ville
(Ruins of Ayudaki Ferry)
villge
Date-gun
Suwa Jinja no Jiji Sugi N.H.P.
B.
Suve
Natsui Village
Baba Sugi (Grundfather
Shrine
Tamura-sun
Codar and Grandmothor
Cedar at Suwa Shrine)
Suzuld Shinkyo Haka
H.S.
H.S.
Nyoho
Dame Towns hip.
(Tomb of Sninko Suzuki)
(Turplo)
Koriyana City
Nango no Thro Sugi
N.H.P.
B. May 1938
Inari
Takmshiro villag.
(Taro Cečar in Nargo)
Shrino
Higashishiralsmm-gun
mahiko-nwm Unai
Z. Sept. 1939
Toyema
Toyoma Township.
Seisok-chi (Khshko
Township
Ishikd-gan
Swamp. Eol Habitat)
Yanaizu Ugli Seisckichi
Z. July 1940
Yanaizu
Yanaizu Village.
(Yanaizu. Jaco (Fish)
Villago
Kawanuma-gun
Habitat)
Takase no Tuiboku (Ko-
B. June 1941
Kozashi
Kosashi Village
yakd) (Giant Zolkova
village
Xitaaizu-gun
Tree in Takase)
Almtau no Ktaura
B.
Akatsu
Akatsu Village.
(Japanese Judau Tree
Villoge
Asuchi-gun
in Akatau)
Tomita no Kayald
B.
Private
Tomita Village.
(Zolkova Troe in Tomita)
Omer
Asuahi-gun
Hirgbusemvina Mariaogaeru
Z. Fob. 1941
Dept. of
Futaba-gun
Hansholichi (Mori Green
Agriculture
Frog Breeding Grounds in
Hirabuse Suamp)
Xobate no Osugi
B. Mar. 1941
Oci tsushima Kobata Villas
(Gimnt Japanese Codar
Shrine
àn Kobeta)
(Pino
Apr. 1941.Choenji
(Temple)

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.93)
NAH.P.
Z. Auge 1943 Not sive
(Terushimm, Comormnt
Nesting rea)
IBARAGI
Funataulayama Kofun
H4B.
H.S. Mar. 1921
Takahama
(Funatsuknyaa Old Mound)
Village
Nibaru-gun
Yoshida Kafun
Mar. 1922
Yoshida
Yoshida Ville
Yoshida Old Mound)
village
Higashiibart
Kyu Kodokan (Former
Ibaragi
Mmiichi,
Kodokan (Mansion)
Prefecture
Mito City
Tokiwa Koen
(Toldwa Park
s.s.
S.8.
Hitachi Kokubunji-ato
HS.
H.S. Oct. 1922
Ishioka
Ishioke To
(Ruins of Hitachi Koku-
Township
Nibaru-gun
bunji (Tample)
Hitachi Kokubunji-ato
(Ruins of Hitachi Kola-
bunji (Nunnery)
Ibuldiyama Ibik! J:so
N.H.P.
B.
Kushigat
Kushigata-Villag
(Chineso Juniper Forest
Village
Taga-gun
in Mt. Ibuki)
Sakuragawa (Sakura)
s.s.
S.S. Deo. 1924
Hignahinaka Higashimlm Villa
(Sa lauragawn Cherry
Village
Nishiibarakd-gun
Blossuma)
Shirabatayama Hachiman- N.H.P.
B. Apr. 1929
Shirahata- Tokiwa Towmshipe
gu no Obatsuld Iaho
yama Hachi- Mito City
(Obatauld Ginko Tree at
man Shrine
Hachimn Shrine in
Shirahatuyam)
Odo no Sakura.
N.H.P.
B. July 1932
Nagaoka
Nagaoka ville
(Cherry Trees in Odo)
villago
Higashiiberald
Meiji Tenno Mito Anaai- HS.
H.S. Nov. 1933
Ibaraid
Xitasanno V111
sho (Eraperor Meiji'
Prefocture Mito City
Place of Sojourn in Mito)
Yasuragawe no Jijisugi N.H.P.
B. Doo. 1924
Takabagi
Takmhagi
(Jiji (Grandfather)
Township
Taga-gun
Japanese Cedar in Yasu-
ragawa)
Meiji Tenmo Ushika An- H.B.
H.s. Nov. 1933
Uahil
saisbo (mperor Meiji's
village
Place f Sojourn in Ushikd)
An .
HS.
Townahip

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.92)
OLASBI-
LEATIC
Sekd Joshi
H.S.
H.S. May 1935
Mwachi
(Ruins of Sekd Castle)
Village
Hachiman
Shrine
Taiho Joshi
Taiho,
Taiho Villags.
(Ruina of Taiho Castle)
Kuroko,
Kawachi Village.
Kawachi.
Kuroko Villago,
Kamizua
Kamizuma Village,
Villages
Makabe-gun
Hachiman Shrino
Kitunlw: h-z..l
).pt. .f
Ki t'y nouchi
Hasseichi (ktiniwa,
Ariculture.Village.
specie of Cicada(Hix-
Gakuganji
Ni shiibarakd-gun
haru-zemi) Habitat)
(Te.iplo)
Meiji Tunno Shimodate
11.3.
H.S. Mar. 1936
Shimodato
Shimodato Township,
Anzaisho (Emporor Mui ji's
Township
Makabe-gun
Plaoe of Sojourn in
Shimod: to.)
Maiji Tenno Iwase Na
Iwase Town- Iwase Township.
Nakmizumi Anzaiaho oyobi
ship
Nishiibaraki-gun
Gokohyojo (Daporer M1'
Place of So s
Reviewirg Spot in 
Nakaizun
Meiji Tennc Iwa 'e Hoshi-
nomiya Cnodachij) (Emperor
Moiji's Field Hendqunrters
in Iwase Hoshinariya)
Meiji Tenno Itama Ono-
Mar. 1936
Iwama
Iwamm Township.
dachijo (Erpuror Moiji's
Township
Nishiibaragi-gun
Field Heaugunrters in
Iwame)
Oda Joshi
June 1936
Oda villago oda Village.
(Ruins of Oda Castle)
Tsukuba-gun
Moiji Tenno Oshzukn
Nov. 1936
Ohara
Chara Village
Onodaohijo (Emparor Moiji's
village
Nishiibaragi-gun
Field Headquartors in
Oshosuka)
Moiji Tenno Mokabare
July 1942 . Not given
Nares hiba Village.
Goshckeijo (Emperor Moiji's
Inashiki-sun
Rosting Pa in Mokahara)
mbaru niji-ate fu
Nibaru Village.
Uesohera Gayo-ato (Fuine
of Old Temple in Nibera
and ains of Tile-kiln)
Mar6-1944

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.94)
Shimotsuks Rolibunji-
.
H.S. Mar. 1921
ato (Ruins of Shimotsule
Kokibunji (Temple)
Ashikaga Gakko-ato
Ashilngs
(Ruins of Ashikinge School)
6ity
Koshinso Jisuichi
N..P.
B.
Not givon
Shohei vll
(Swamp Plant, Butter-
Ashilga 0
wort (Pinguiculn Kamosa)
Habitat)
Koganei Iohirizuka
H.S.
H.S. Mar. 1922
Lokmbunji
Kolubunjs
(Koganei Milestone)
village
Shimot
Nikko Namikikido
Toghigi
Nikco. Imi
(Nikko Troe-linod Street)
Prufecture
Townships.
toga-guns
Toyooke 11
Knwachi-gun
Ashikagashi Tuku-ato
Ashikga
Yatomi Towns
(Ruins of Ashikge's
City
Ashikaga Ci
House)
Uzawa Funsunto
N.H.P.
G.M.
Dept. of
Kriyama Vill
(Uzawe Fountein Tower)
griculture Enya-gun
Oya Sekikutsu Butsu
HS.
H.S. Feb. 1926
Oyaji
Shiroyama vill
(Stone Buddha in Oya Cave)
(Tomple)
Kawachi-gun
Sanuld Sekibutsu
HS.
HS.
Kamon-do
Funau Villa
(Sa nuld Stone Euddha)
(Tumple)
Enya-gun
Biwazuka Kofun
Kuwa
Kuwa village
(Biwazuka Old Mound)
Village
Shinotoga-gun
Atagozuk Kofun
Mibu
Mibu Tomship.
(Atagozula Ojd Mound)
Tomahap
Shinotoga-un
Kurumazuka Kofun
(Kurumazuka Cld Mound)
Ushizuka Kofun
(Ushizuka Old Mound)
Mibu Ichirizuka
Mar. 1928
(Mibu Milestone)
Eagon no Tald oyobi
s.s.
S.s. Mar. 1931
Tochigi
Chusénjiko (Chugugiko)
Prefecture
Köhan (Mgon Fall and
Shore of Lake Chusenji)
nuammehi Ginya-ato
H.S.
H.S. Mar. 1932
amranmchi
Nov. 1933

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.92)
H.S.
E.S. Nov. 1993
ror Moiji's
Nov. 1934
Alautsu
Alortsu vi1
Moiji Tonno Akutsu An- H.S.
Village
Enya-gun
saisho, Onodachijo oyobi
Golohyojo (Enporor Meiji's
Place of Sojourn. Rosting
Place and Reviewing Spot
in Autau)
Nasu Village.
Nasu
Moiji Tenno Takku. Ono
Village
Nasu-gun
dachijo (Emperor Meiji's
Field Headquarters in
Takak)
Dee. 1934
Bato
Bato Tounship.
Karagosho Yokoana
Towmship
Nasu-gun
(Karagosho Cave)
Nov. 1936
Nikko
Nikim Townshipe
Meiji Tenno Shichiri
Township
Kmitoga-gun
Goshokoiio (Emporor Moiji's
Restine Ynco in Scri)
Meiji Tenno Uuagcesii
Goshoke: jo (Emparor Meiji's
Restin: Flace 2n Umagaoshi)
Nov. 1936
Ashino
Ashino Township.
Meiji Tonno Yananaka
Tomahip
Nasu-gun
Goshokeijo (Raperor Meiji's
Resting Flace in Yamanaka)
Kmiugawa
Kamiogawa Towns hil
Meiji Tenno Hikidabara
Tavnship
Nasu-gun
Goshok:jo (aperor
Meiji's Resting Place
in Hikdda mra)
Ashino
Ashino Temship.
Moiji Tenno Meotoiwa
Township
Nasu-gun
Onodaoni jo (imper or
Moiji's Field Head-
quarters in M.otoine)
Iwafune villegs.
Iwafune
Meiji Tonno Washinosu
Village
Shimotoga-gun
Onodaobijo (Emperor
Meiji'a Fiold Head-
guarters in Washinosu)
mnoniya no Clayali
N.H.P.
B. Dao. 1936
Utsunomiya
City
Asahi Townshép.
Utsunomiya ai
tant Zelkove Tree
Véaunaniye)
Rimoji
B.
(TempleO
Tree)
B. Apr. 1937.

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.93)
Isurubarg Bentenilm . N.H.P.
G. Des. 1936
(Benten Pond at Isurutara)
ville
Meidi Tonno Kegon no
H.B.
Hs. Sept. 1939 Fu
Takd Gokurau Onodachijo
(Shring)
(Emporor Mei ji's Rosting
Pla where h viowed the
Kegon Fall)
Moiji Tonno Nakajaya
Sept. 1939 Futarayam
N1.kdoo
Onodaclijo (Emperor Mci ji's
Shrino
Field Headquarters in
Nakajcya)
Meiji Tanno Otabara Go-
Otabara
Otabara
shokuijo (Enperor Maiji's
Township
Nasu-gun
Resting Place in Otabira)
Nagusamura no Kyosei- N.H.P.
GM.
Nagusa it.....Nagusa villag
gun (Group of large
village,
Ashikga-gm
Rocks at Nagusa Vi.lago)
Itsukshima
Slrine
Meiji Tenno Sarurano
HS.
H.S. June 1944
Not given
Ujiio Townshipe
Anzaisho (Enporor M:i ji's
Enya-gun
Place of Cojourn in
Sakurano)
Meiji Tonno Tanonua
Mar. 1944
Namoto Villa
Goshokeijo (Emperor Meiji's
Shimotoga-gun
Resting Place in Tomonuna)
GUMM4
Tataranuma Mujinamo
N.H.P.
B. July 1918
Sanchi (Tatara Swamp.
Habitat of Aquatio Plant,
(Aldrovanda Vəsiculosa)
Sundew Fasily)
Tako-hi
H.S.
H.S.
Yoohii
Yoshti T
(Tako Monument)
Township
Tano-gun
Yamano Kami Hi Oyobi
Yasata
Yamta Vill
Kofun (Yamanokai Monu-
villago
Tano-gan
ment and Old Mound)
Danaiznwa-hi
(Kanaizaua Monument)
Myogisan
8.s.
S.8. Mar. 1923
Dapt. of
(Ms. Myog1)
Agriculture
Guma
H.B.Oct. 1926

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.96)
CLASSIO
FICATION
Myotaisan Kofun
HS.
H.S. Apr. 1927
Ota Town-
(tyotaizan Old Mound)
ship
Maefutago Kafun
Arato
Arato Villa
(Maefutago Old Mound)
Village
Sota-gun
Nakafutago Kofun
(Nakafutago Old Mound)
Ushirofutago Kofun nare-
bini Sho Kafun (Ushiro-
futago Old Mound and
Small Mound)
Futagoyamn Kofun
Soja Town- Soja Township.
(Futagoyam Old Mound)
ship
Gunma-gun
Taldzawa Sekkijidai
Yokono
Yokono-Village.
Isseki (Renn ins of Stono
Village
Sota-gun
Age in Tulizawa)
Futagoya Kofun
June 1927
Maebashi
Tenkewa Towns hip.
(Futago  Md)
C.ty
Maebashi City
Nanayoyen Koiun
Midori
Midori Village,
(Nanay ma Old Mound)
Village
Ton o-gun
Sanno-to-ato
Fab. 1928
Soja
Soja Towmship.
(Ruins of Sanno Towor)
Tomship
Gunma-gun
Takayana Hikokuro Taku-
Nov. 1931
Ota
Ota Township.
ato fu Jhatsu cu'a (Former
Township
Nittasgur
House of Hiko'uro Takayama
and Mound Covering Hair of
Dead)
Takasakd Koon no Shiro- N.H.P.
B. Apr. 1932
Taknsald
Miyamoto Township
mokren (White Magnolia in
City
Takasald City
Takasaki Párk)
Annala Harmichi. no
B. Apr. 1933
Gwma
Amaka Township.
Suginamild (Roadside
Prefecture
Haraichi Township
Japanese Cedars in
Usui-gun
Annaka Haraichi)
Haramachi no Okayaki
B.
Nara
Hara Township.
(Giant Zelkova Treo at
Township
Amuma-gun
Hara Township)
aro no Olaya
B.
Fujimi
Fujimd villd
Torreya Tree in
village
Sota-gun
Osugi
B.
Myogi
Shrine

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.93)
Mei ji Tenno Shinmachi
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1933.
Anma is ho (Emperor Mei ji's
shiy
Placa of Sojourn in
Shinmachi)
Ikushim Jinja Keidai
Mar. 1934
Ilashime
Ilshi
(Nitta Yoshisada Kyoho1
Shrine
Densetsuchi) (Legendary
Ikushima
Location where Yoshiaada
villago
Nitta Raisad an Army at
Ikshina Shrine)
Meiji Tonno Shibukowa
Nov. 1934
Shibukawa
Shibuka
Anzaisho (Eaperor Meiji's
Township
Gunma-gun
Place of Sojourn in
Shibukawn)
Meiji Temo Goryo Go-
Usui Town- Usui Township.
shokeijo (Emperor Moi ji's
ahip
Usui-gun
Resting Place in Goryo)
Meiji Tonno Haraichi
Hormishi
Haraiohi
Goshokoijo (Empera
Towns nip
Usui-gun
Meiji's Resting Placa
in Haraichi)
Rnayax Josid 'Puins
Dec. 1934
Ota Town-
Dta Towns hip.
of Kanaya Castic)
ship.
Nitta-zun
Nitta
Shrine
Tautsujignokn (Tautsu-
S.S.
S.3.
Tatebayc.ahi Alkabane Villag
ji) (Azalea on Isutau-
Townsiip Qra-gun
ji Hill)
Maebashi Joshi no Eda- N.H.P.
B.
Gunma
Magarime Tow
yori Matsu (Edayari
Prefecture. Maobashi City
Pino Tree in Fuins of
Maebashi Castle)
warayu Genmyah! (Ca-
G.M.
Naganohara Naganohara
ryu-iwa, Shoryu-iwa)
Township
Azuma-gun
(Kawarayu Stone Dike,
Garyu Stone, and
Shoryu Stone)
Asumakyo
8.s.
S.S. Dec. 1935
Dept. of
Immshim
(Azuma Va:ley)
Agriculture n
Fukiwari-koi marabini
N.H.P.
GM. Dao. 1996
Pukimari-dald (Puid-
S.S.
8.8.
village
wari Valley and Fuld-
wari Water Fall)
S.S. Apr. 1937

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.95)
N.H.P.
G.M. Aug. 1998
Kosule
villego
Flase of Froduction of
Losenge Pattern Stone)
Ildinu Ana
(Ikdinu Hole)
Maebashi
Iwagami Township.
Iwagami no Tobi-ishi
City
Mhebashi City
(Tobi Stono in Ivagami)
1940
Taumagoi
Tawagoi Village.
Asamayamm Yogan Jukai
villago
Azuma-gun
(Tree-shaped Lava on
Mt. Asama)
Takoi Haiji To-ato
H.S.
H.S. June 1941
Niza to
Village
Nizato Village,
Sota-gun
(Ruins of Tower in
Takei Temple)
ota Town-
Ota Towmship.
Tenjinyamu Kofun
ship
Nitta-gun
(yt. Tenjin Old Mound)
AuC. 1941
Gunma
Matsuida Township.
Meiji Terno Matsui1a
Prcfucture Usui-gun
Anzaisho (Empeco: Mei ji:s
Placo of Sojourn in
Matsuid.)
Nov. 1934
Takasald
Yoriai Township.
Meiji Tecno Talosaki
City
Takasakd City
Anzaisho (Empercr Meiji's
Pla∞ of Sojourn in
Ta kmsa kd)
Hotozan Fafun
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1944
Not givon
Soja Township.
Gunma-gun
(Hotozan Oid Mound)
Mikuri Village
Hongo Haniwa Yoshi
H.S.
H.S.
Tano-gun
(Rema ins of Oven for
Clay Imayes in Hongo)
Minagami Village.
Minagami Sekka jiloi
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1944
Tone-Gun
Jukyo-ato (Remains of
Stone-age Houses in
Minagami)
SITAMA
Togo-mura Sakaraso
N.H.P.
B. July 1920
Togo
village
Togo Village,
Kita-adaohi-gun
Jiseichi (Tild Primrose
Area in Togo Village)
Ishido Gamasakure
N.H.P.
G. Oot. 1922
Saitama
Ishido Village.
Prefeoture
Kita-adaohi-gan
(Ishidogam Cherry Treo)
shimi Hyakin tau
H.S.
H.S. Mar. 1923
Nishi Yo-
Nishi Yo
shimi
Hild-gun
at Yoshimi)
villege
3B.
8.8. Deo. 1924
Spot)

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.94)
Rumagaya-sutsumi
8.8.
S.s. Aug. 1927
City
(Sakura) (Cherry Tree
on Kumagaya River Bank)
Ushijima no Fuji
N.H.P.
B. Juno 1928
Yudmatsu
village
(Wistaria in Ushijima)
Minamigawara Seki Toba
H.S.
H.3. Vab. 1928
Minaizawara
villago
(Stone Bagoba in Minami-
gun
gawara)
Nogani Shimogo Seki Toba HS.
H.S. Feb. 1927
Higuchi
Higuchi vili
village
Chichit
(Stone Dagoba in Nogani
Shimogo)
Nov. 1927
Nishi Yo-
Nishi Yoshimé
Yoshim Hyakkotsu Hikiri- N.Il.P.
shini
Village, Huld
goke (Luminous Moss
Village
(Schistostoga Osmundacea
Schimp) in Yoshimi Caves)
Komi Shinkanji Kofun
H.S.
II.S. Mar. 1931
Shinkanji
rakd Village.
(Temple)
Kita -saitam
(Koi Shinkinji (Temple)
Old·Mound)
Nov. 1931
Hiashi-
Higashi-koodaim
Mizudono Gayo-ato
Kodama
village, Koda
(Ruins of Tile-kiln in
village
Mizudono)
Hachigata Joshi
Ii.S.
H.S. Apr. 1932
Hachigata
Hachigata villa
Vilage
Osato-gun
(Ruins of Huchigate Castle)
Yono no Olaya (Giant
N,H.P.
B. July 1932
Yono
Yono Townshipe
Towmship
Kita-adashi-gun
Torreya Treu at Yono)
Mokkoji no Oyanamomiji.
B.
Mokuko-ji
Totsukn Village
(Temple)
Ki ta-adachiegun
(Giant Maple at Mokkoji
Temple)
Meiji Tenno Uruwa
HS.
N. Nov."1933
Saitama
Urawa City
Prefecture
Anzaisho (Emperor Meiji's
Place of Sojourn in
Urawa)
Meiji Tenno Sola An-
H.S.
H.S.
Soka
Soka Towns hip.
Towns hip
Ki ta-adachi-gin
zaisho (Emperor Meiji's
Place of Sojown in Soka)
Meiji Tenno Okagawa An- H.S.
HS.
Okagawa
Okegawn Towneh
Township
Kita-adachi
zaisho (Emperor Meijits
Plage of Sojourn in
Okagawa)
Mamiya-mra Sakauraso N.H.P.
B. May 1934
Mamiya
Mamiya vil
village
Jiseichi (Wild Primrose
Habitat in Mamiya Village)
H.S. Nov. 1995
H.B. A1936

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.89)
Omatm Go- HaB.
H.S. Aug. 1940
ijo (mperor Maiji's
mating Place in Osewe)
Mita no amiimeN.H.P.
G.M.
Waka is uni
(Mirror Rook on Mt. Mitale)
villago
Meiji Tonno Okabe Go- H.S.
H.3. Feb. 1941
Gensho-in
Olmbe ville.
(Tample)
Osa to-gun
shokei jo (Rmparor Meiji's
Resting Place in Okaba)
Meiji Tanno Gongando
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1941
Dopt. of
Yuldide ville
sutsumi Onodachidc
Homo
Kita-datoushis
refairs
(Emperor Meiji's Fiold
Headquarters.in Gongondo
Riva Bunk)
Mnaya. Village,
Hanawa Hokdlich1. Kyu-
H.S. H.S. Nov. 194. Not givon
Kodana-gun
ta lu (Former House of
Holdiahi. Hanuwa)
CHIBA
Putodomaa.Koib: S!N.LoP
B. July 1920
Ritodo
Futodo Village
Village
Chosai-gun
Mibutau Gunrakacl:i
(Habitn l
Seaside ts)
Nando uachi.Shoki-
N.H.P.
B.
Nando
Township
niku Shokubutsu Sanchi
(Carnivarcis plant
Habitat)
Kominato-Township.
Tainouror Tai-Soiabo-
N.H.P Z. Mr. 1922 Karinato
Township
wa-gun
Juchi (Tinoura, Sea
bream Habitat)
yosumi no Caugi
N.HaP.
B. Dac. 1924. Seiahoji. . Amatau-Towmahip..
(Temple.)
Awn-gun
(Giant Japene e Cedar
at Eyozuni)
Duma no Clasu ()ian)
N.H.P. B. Oct. 1926Fumm
Fumn Township.
Township
Eatori-gun
Camphor Tree at Fuma)
Kansaid. mnsald Townshipe
Emsald no Okisu
N.H.P..
B....
Township  Katori-gun
(Giart Carphor Tree at
mnsald)
Takoaka
Taimoke villeg
ola Hrimo., N.H.P. ..D.  Nov. 1928
village
Dinitsu-sun
fi Busschli)
Duckcseed Grow-
aee at Takm oko
.B.. .. Do. 1929

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.94)
AR-231-0R-2-1
FRASON
CLASSI-
FICATION DESID.
Ino Chukai· Kyutalau
H.S.
H.S. Apr. 1930
Private
(Former House of Chulkei Ino)
Osner
Senbon Kosonju
N.H.P.
B. Feb. 1931
mtsushila
(Senbon Ginko-Tree)
Hachiman
Higashi-k
Shrine
gun
Ryukakaji Kidai no
HS.
H.S. Apr. 1933
Ryukakauji
Ajikd Township.
To-ato (Ruins of Tower
(Temple)
Inba-gun
at Ryukakuji (Teple)
Meiji Tenno Kamkami
HS.
H.S. .Nov. 1934
Ichikawa
Ichikawa Township
Deguchi Anzaisho (Emperor
. City
Ichikma Oity
Maiji's Place of Sojourn
in Kawakani Deguchi)
Meiji Tanno Naritc An- H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1933
Shinshodi
Narita Township
zaisho (Emperor Meiji'a
(Temple)
Inba-gun
Place of Sojourn in
Nari ta)
Meiji Tenno Naraslhino
H.S.
H.S.
Dopt. of
Ninomiya Townshigi
Gyokojo (Emppror Meiji's
war
Chiba-gun
Visiting Place in Nare-
shino)
Jurokginn Lote ru bi
N.H.F.
Z. May 1934
Sawara
Sawara Township.
Haaseichi (Luminous
Township
Katori-g8n
Lobster Habitat in
Jurolai Island)
iji Tenno Ichikawa
HS.
H.S. Nov. 1934
Ichikawa
Ichiknwa Township"
Dairokuton Anzaisho
City
Ichikama City
(mirokuten, Enperor
Meiji's Place of Sojourn
in Ichikwn)
Meiji Tenno Tannodai
H.S.
H.S. Mar.. 1935
Yáchinata
Yachimnta Township
nodachijo (Emperor Meiji's
Township
Inba-gun
Field Headquarters in
Tannodai)
Nijuseiki Nashi Genju
N.H.P.
B.
Dec. 1935
Matsudo
Matsudo Township.
(Original 20th Century
-Township
Higashi-katsushike
Type Pear Tree)
gun
Meiji Tenno Nakano An-
HS.
H.S. July 1936
Shirai
Shirai Villeg.
zaisho (Euperor Meiji's
Village
Chiba-gun
Place of Sojourn in
Nakano)
Maiji Tenno Kawni Go HS.
H.S.
Shitai
Shirai-Village
shokeijo (Emperor Meiji's
village
Chiba-gun
Resting Place in Kawai)
Mukoyana Pujizakaura
NoH.P.
B.
Sept. 1936 Tenjinyam
Tenjinyama-Villeg
Jurin (Mukoyana Cherry
village
Kimitsu-gm
(Prunus Incisa Thunb)
Forest)
Meiji Tenno Usui Sn-
H.S.
Li.s. Deo.' 1937
Private
Usut Townahipe
saisho (Erperor Meiji's
Owner
Inba-gun
Plase of Sojourn in Usui)
 no Rakmad N..P.
B.
Jotumji
(Demple)

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.90)
FBASON
CLASSI-
FOR
ADMINES-
FICATION D
Meiji Tonno Kogane Go- H.S.
H.S. June 1941
Kogane
Eogane Tomnshig
shokmijo (Emperor Meiji's
Township
Higashi-ln tous hts
Resting Placs in Kogana)
un
Meiji-Tenno Mashiwa Go- H.S.
H.S.
Bshiwa
Dshim Township.
shoksijo (Emperor Meiji's
Towns hip
Higashi-katsushilm-
Resting Pla∞ in Kashiwa)
gun
Iwaya Kofun
HS.
H.S.
Ajikd Township.
(Iwaya Old Mound)
Inba-gun
Tourueda.Himaharu-zeni N.H.F.
B.
Dao. 1941
Matsuoda Village.
Haaseiahi (Habitat of
Shosei-gun
Himaharu Cicada in Taurueda)
Maiji Tenno Matsudo
H.S.
H.. July 1942 Mataudo
Matsudo Towmship.
Anaaisho. (Emper or Maiji's
Township
Higashi-katsushilm
place of sojourn in
gun
Mntaudo).
TOKYO
Ota ule Serju Bosho
H.S.
H.S. N. 1921
Tokyo
Otsuka-eakashita.
(Tamb of nju Osk)
Cisy
machi, Koishikmma-k
Yushim Said) (Kvshima
H.S.
H.S. Mar. 1922
Min, of
Yushim 2ochone.
Temple of (onfussls)
Eduontion
Hongo-ku
Aano.. Naganori na Hka H.S.
H.S.
Tokyo City -Muruma-maohi.
ayobi Ako Cishi no Hak
Shiba-kau
(Tomb of Naamori. Asno
and Tonba of Ako-gishi)
Nishigrhara.Ichirizuka. H.S.
H.S.
Nishigahara-machi
(Nishigahara Mile Stone.)
Ta kinogawa-ku
Shimura Ichirizuka.
HS.
HS.
Shimura-machi.
(Shimura Mile Stona)
Itabashi-ku
washi Kolubun jiato
H.S.. H.S. Nov. 1922 Kokibunji
Kokubunji village.
(Ruins of Musashi Koki-
Villaga
Kitatana-gun
bunji (Bemple).
Zaishikowa Koraken.
H.S.
H.S. Mar. 1923 Tokyo City Koishikamamahi.
(Koishi! KarakS.
..ss.
Koishikawa-ku
Gardan)
Xoganei (Salara)
S.8.  8.S..Dao..1924
Kodaira Villag.
(Cherry Tree at
Musashino Township.
Koganai)
Dtatawn-gun
Arakoma Sutsumi
....
Adachi-kar
(Sa kure) (Cherry Trees
on Aramma River Bank)
Mabedaimon no Kaye k.H.P.
Z.
Olaxnitama
Puckme Townahipe
mild (Roadside Zelik
Shrine
Litatarn-gun
ee at.Babada imon)
Ja Sakki jidai
H.S.
H.B.r Fabr 1926
Minami
Minami Villages
Stone Age Ramains
H.. -Cas..1926. Tolyo City-Bhibe

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.91)
AR-231-0R-2-1
CLASBI
DICATIO
Hayashi-shi Bochi
H.S.
H.B. 0ct. 1926
Tolgro C1ty
(Graveyard of the
Hayashi Panily)
Takan Haka
HS.
HS.
(Toub of Takuan)
Shinagasa-km
Khuo Mabuchi Haka
HS.
H.S.
Kitashinagawm.
(Tomb of Mabuci Ano)
Shinagawa-kas
Eishoin no Shii
N.HP.
B.
Dagone, Hoa
(Pasania Trea in Eishoin
mmohi. Hongo
(Temple)
Zenpukuji no Kosonju
N.H.P.
B. 0gt. 1926
Yammeto mh
(Ginko Tres at Zenpulauji
Aanbu-ka
(Temple)
Matsudaira Sadanobu ak H.S.
H.S. Jun 1928
Shirakmwmchi.
(Tamb of Sadanobu Matsu-
Pukngawa-ku
daira)
Kobotoke Salk.-ato
H.S.
H.S.
se kowe
Asakava Tornshipe
(Ruins of Kocotolo
Township
Minari-tana-gun
Barrier Gate)
Funada Selijidn: Tseki H.S.
H.S.
Yokoyam
Yokoyama Village.
(Stone Ago Rnins in
Villago
Minani-tcra-gun
Funnda)
kkozan Kefun
HS.
H.S. Feb. 1928
Tokyo City Donenohofu,
(Kikkozan Cid Mound)
Omori-k
Pakinawn Okido-ate
H.S.
H.S.
Kuruna-mechi.
(Ruina of Parrior Gato
Shiba-a
in Takenana)
Ontaka no Zindaikeyaki N.HP.
B.
Mita
Mita Village,
(Old Zelkova Tree in
village
Nish.-tam-gun
Ontake)
rokiwabashi-non-ato
H.S.
H.S. Mar. 1928
Tokyo-to
Ote-mchi. Koji-
Ruins of Toldiwabasli
máchi-kau. Moto-
rohg
ishi.-mchi, Nihon.
saksa Ke no Kosonju N.H.P.
B. July 1930
Asckusa Park,
Ginko Trcè n saksa
Asalo:ma-ku
ark)
ishibojin no Kosonju
N.H.P.
B.
Homyo-ji
Zoshigaya
Ginko Tree in Kishi-
(Temple)
Toshima-ki
ojin (Shrim)
hiba tToshoga: no Ko- N.H.P.
B.Au.1930
Toshogu
onju (Ginko Tree in
(Temple)
ihiba Toshogu (Grave-
and of Tokgawa
NeH.P.
B. Feb, 1991

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.93)
CLASSI-
POR
PICATION
Horikdri Kodakmen
9.s.
8.3. eb. 1993
Tokyo City
(Kodaka Garden in
Horikiri)
Mukojina Hyakkmen
S.S.
s.s.
Torajima-jach
Mukojina-ka
(Hyalda Garden in Muko-
jima)
Nishiakidone Shimizu
II.S.
H.S. Apr. 1933
Nishinidoe Nishiakddo
village.
Village, Nishi-
Sekkijidai Jukyoshigun
tam-gun
(Group of Ruins of Stone
Age Houses in Nishi-
akidone Shimizu)
Kyu Shibariku-nto
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1933
Tokyo City Hamazaldi-maohi.
Shiba-u
(Ruins of Former Shiba
Detachad Palaca)
8-chome Kaiinoguro.
Meiji Tenno Gyokojo Sai- H.S.
II.S.
Moguro-ka
gotei (Saizo's House
Visitad by Emperor Meiji)
Meiji Tenmo Gyokcjo Kico H.S.
II.S.
1-chono Konagane.
Toshima-k
Kyutei (Kido's Fer
House Visitw? by E po.cor
Meiji)
Meiji Tenno Gyokcjo. Mito H.
HS.
Sumida Park,
Honjo-ku
Tolagawa Tsi Ky'sni
(Ruins of Former House
of Mito Tokyawa Visited
by Emperor Moij1)
Meiji Tenno Gyokojo
H.S.
H.S.
Tana
Tema Village,
Village,
Minami-tarm-gun
Taioso oyobi Kyushi
Tokyo City
3-chome. Hashiba.
(Taioso and the Ruins
Asakuan-ku
Visitod by Emperor Moiji)
Meiji Tenno Gyokojo
HS.
H.S.
Tokyo City
Kamata-achi.
Knta-ku
Kamata Umeyashii (Enata
Umeyashiki visited by
Emperor Meiji)
Moiji Tenno Fuahu An- HS.
H.S. Nov. 1933
Fuohu
Puchu-Townabip
Township
Kita-tama-gun
saisho (Fperor Meiji's.
Place of Scjourn at Juchu)
Meiji Tenno Renkoji
H.S.
H.S.
Tam
Tarn Village,
Village
Minani-tain-gun
Goshoksijo (Emperor
Meiji's Resting Place in
Renkoji)
Ando Inari-ato no Ko- N.H.P.
B. June 1934
Min. of
Ossuka-mnohi.
.Education
..P.
G.M.
Enokibare
Tomship
Torgo Cáty

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.92)
AR-231-08-8-1
Meiji Tenno Ogikubo
HS.
H.S. Nov. 1934
To yo Oity
Goshokmijo (mapror Meiji's
Rest in3 Place in Ogikubo)
Meiji Tenno Hino Gosho- HS.
H.S.
Hino
no
keijo oyobi Tatemono
Township
Minami-t
(Emperor Meiji's Resting
Place and Building in
Hino)
Maiji Tanno Kobotoke
H.S.
HS.
Ase kawa
Asakamm Towmal
Gosloleijo oyobi Ono-
Township
dachijo (Emperor Meiji's
Resting Place and Fiold
Headquartors in Kobotoke)
Kiun Deioku Seimonme N.H.P.
B. June 1935
Nova1
Shiroge nedai-machi
no Shii (Pasania Tros at .
Collage
Siba
the front Main Gate of
the Nail Collage)
Meiji Tenno Gyokojo
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1935
Tokyo City
Sendagaya
Tokgaw-toi (Tokarav
Shiluye -kau
House vte ty po or
Maiji)
Sanppoik Sr aku
N.H.P.
B. Dac. 1935
Kanishe kijii,
Shokibutst Gun.
Itabas!i-kau
(Swaup Plants in Sang
poji Pand)
Shoma no Ekurc -kabu
N.H.P.
B. Dac. 1935
Jzni fu Village
(Cherry rao Stump in
Oshima (Is land)
Os..ima (Island)
Tokyo Bidutsugakko Mon- N.H.P.
B
Min. of
Ueno Park
mi no Shii (Paannia
Education
Shitaya-ka
Treo at the Gare of
Tokyo Fine Ar School)
Ueno Onshikoen Nihon- N.H.P.
B.
Tokyo City Ueno Park.
matsubara no Shi:
Shitaya-kau
(Pasania Tree at Nihon-
matsubaro in Ueno
Imperial Gift Park)
Meiji Tanno Mitake
H.S.
.. p. 1937
Mitale
Mitako-mmohi,
Jinja Goshokeijo-ato
Shride
Shibugtmim
(Ruine of Enperor Meiji's
Resting Place at Mitake
Shriba)
Eyu Horaien no Kosonju N.H.P.
B. Sept. 1939 Tokyo City
(Ginko Triee in the Former
Harai Garden)
Oji Jinja no
NeitoP.
0j1

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.92)
ij1 Tampo Mippon Bi- H.S.
H.S. Aug. 1941
gebeu Byokni Gyokojo-ato
(Remins of Eupror Meiji's
Visitin3 Plac∞ in Japan
Fim Arts Assxiation)
Gamo Kinpei Haka
H.S.
HS. July 1942
Tokyo City
Yanaksaka
(Tamb of Kunpoi Gamo)
Shitaya-kau
Yukigani Jinja no Shi- N.H.P.
B.
Yukigand
Olano Village.
dare Aknshide (Weeping
Shrine
Nishi-tarm-sm
Tree (Carpinus Laxiflora)
in Yukigani Shrine)
Yanaga Soko Haka
HS.
H.S. May 1943
Not given
Benton-mehi,
(Tomb of Soko Yanngn)
Ushigone-hu
Takashima Shuhan Haka
H.S.
H.S.
Ushigore Higashi
(Tomb of Shuhan Ta kashim)
kata-mohi, Hngo-k
Hiraga Gennai Haka
HS.
HS.
3-chone Ishihama-
(Tab of Gennai Himgo)
machi, Ase asa-km
Takmlasni Shiji ukn
H.S.
H.S.
Kitakdyoahina-achi
(Tomb of Shiji Taraicshi.)
Asnkusa-
Ino Chukoi hlkm
H.S.
H.S.
(Tomb o? Cimkoi Ino)
Aold Konyo Haka
H.S.
HS.
3-chone Shimo-
(Tamb or Konyo Aoki)
meguro, Meguro-lm
KANAGANA
Sagani Kokibunji-ato
HS.
H.S. Mar. 1921
Bbina-
Ebina-Townhhip
(Ruins of Sagnni Koku-
Township
Koza-gun
bunji (Temple)
Balone Sekk.-ato
H.S.
H.S. Mar. 1922
Hakone
Hakone Towne hip.
(Ruins of Hakore Rartier)
Township
Ashigarashino-gun
and two
others
Shomeij: Nnilmi fu Ka-
H.S.:
H.S. Oot. 1922
Yokóbrinn
Eamasajirao-machi,
nesamn-sbi Haka cyobi
City
Iaogo-k, Yoko
Misan Shinkai Shonin
hama City
Iom Sodai-to (Immer Part
of Showeiji. Tomb of Kana-
a Faily and burial
ware of Shinkmi Shonin.
Founder and his des-
nss)
H.S.
.B.Ma.1923

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.94)
Kyu Sagamigama Kyo-
HS.
H.S. Oot. 1926
Chigasek
Township.
Kyaku TOld Pier in the
Sagani River)
Holdodo-ato (Ruins of
HS.
H.S. 4pr. 1927
Khin kaura
Hokkado (Mansi on)
City
Hino Tosnimoto Haka
HS
H.S.
Fukagawa
Fukigaun village
Village
Kama karaegun
(Tamb of Tosliinto Hino)
Reizen Tanesuke Haka
HS.
HS.
Kankura
Kain Jara City
(Tonb of Taesuke Reizen)
City
Ninjo Inka
H.S.
HS.
(Tomb of Nin Jo)
Hojo Shigetolk Haka
H.S.
li3.
(Tamb of Shigetokd Hojo)
Den Uesugi Norikatu Huki
H.S.
H.S.
(Believad to be the tomb
of Norikita Uesugi)
Minanoto Voc toro 
H
H.S. Juno 1927
(Tomb of Yoritol) Mi.
roto)
Moroiso no Ryult Saigan N.H.P.
G.M. Mar. 1928
Misald
Mjsikd Tcwrship
Township
Miura-gun
(Elovated Const in
Mordiso)
Suarashi Sekkd jidai
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1930
Uchigo
Uchigo i llage
Villago
Tauai-n
Isekd (Store Age Romains
in Suarasm)
Kawajiri Sokkijidai
H.3.
H.S. July 1931
Kawajiri
Kawajiri village
village
Tsulali-gun
Iseki (Stone Ige Remains
in Kawajiri)
Kenohoji Teien
HS.
H.S. July 1932
Konchoji
Ofune Totmahip
(Garden of Kunchji
s.s.
S.3.
(Temple)
Kmiaura-gun
(Te:ple)
Enkakuji Teien
H.S.
IH.S.
Enkikuji
(Tanple)
(Garden of Enkakuji
(Temple)
Meiji Tenno Yokosuk
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1933
Yokosuka
Shi odoma-machi
City
Yokosuka City
Anzaisho-ato (Ruins of
Emperor Meiji's Place of
Sojourn in Yokosuka)
Meiji Tenno Kamakara
H.S.
HS.
Tsuruoka
Kamkura City
Hachimangu
Onodachijo (Enperor Meiji's
(Shrine)
former Field Headquarters
in Eamakara)
Hakone Sengolaibara Shi- N.H.P.
B. June 1934
Sengola
bara
agenshoiubutsu Gunraka
village
ap Plant Area in Hakone

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.93)
NoH.P.
B. Mare 1934
Miho
Japanése Codar)
village
hare. Hachimandai
H.S.
H.S. Deo. 1934
Isobara
Isebare
Mijidai Jukyo-ato
Township
(Ruins of Stonu ge
Houses in Isehara
Baohimandai)
Enoshima
ss.
S.S.
Katase
Katase Tormahip.
(Bnoshina) (Island)
Towmship
Kamc kura-gun
Wakmniya Oji
H.S.
H.S. June 1935
makara
Kamakura City
(Wakamiya Old Street)
City
Meiji Tonno Tsumada
HS.
H.S. Nov. 1935
Tsumada
Tsumada Village,
Anzaisho (Eiperor Mgi ji's
Village
Aiko-gun
Place of Sojourn in
Toumda)
Totauk no Ipponotsu
N.H.P.
B. c. 1937
Yokohama
Kanikashio machi,
(Solitary Pino Troe at
City
Tots uka-k.
Totsuka)
Yoohama City
Odawara Joshi (Ruins
HS.
H.S. Aug. 1938
Oduwara
Cdaware City
of Odawcre Castle)
City
Hokonji no Koya Makd
N.noP.
B. Dac. 1938
Holonji
Mitauzama Nishia
(Koya Chin se Black
(Temple)
mchi, Knagawn-i
Pine in Hormnji (Temple)
Yokohama City
Joganji no Byahushin N.ll.P.
B. Sopt. 1939 Jxganji
Kugawara Township,
(Tuniper Troe in Joganji)
(humple)
Ashigarashino-gun
(Temple)
Yemagami no Juso
N.H.P.
Yugewara
Yugawara Township.
(Bush in Yaupgami)
Township
Ashigarashimo-gun
otohakone Sekibutsu
HS.
H.S. Oct. 1941
Motohakone
Motohakone Village
un u Einiu San-ren
Village.
Ashigarashino-gun
imei S:ikizo Gorinno-to
roup of Stone Buadhas
Motoha kone, Stone
oda made in.1295 AD)
1ji Terno Seljokoji
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1944
Not given
Nishitomi,
aislo-ato (Ruins af
Fujisawa City
Pror Meiji's Plage of
NpH.R,
B. Oct. 1922
Ryogenan Tagand Willa
(Claister)
Saiho-ji

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.93)
:CLASBI-
NAME
FICATION
Baigoji no Jusukakm-
N.H.P
B.
Apr. 1927
Kyogase
zakura (Rosary Bead
Village
Cherry Tree in Baigoji)
(Temple)
Gokurakuji no Nonaka-
N..P.
B.
Kard jo
Kani jo villase
za kura (Non k: Cherry
Village
Higashi-knnbam
Tree at Gokurakuji
(To nple)
Shun Sui
N..P.
1B.
Mikaa
Mikawa Vil lage.
Villgo
Higashi-kanbaran
Shinokaifu Villag.
(Susigwe Hiver)
Prfecture
Iwafune-gun
Hakxgata Hachinangu
N.I.P.
B.
June 1928
Hakoat
Yawate Village
Shaso (Bush at Hako-
Hachiman
Iwafune-un
gata Hachiman Shrino)
Shrine)
agi no Gosho-zakura
N.H.P.
B.
Kaichoji
Ogi Township.
(Gosho Chorry Tree in
(Temple)
Sado-gun
03i)
Oyamada Hi an-zakura
N.H.P.
B.
Kato
Kato Villaga.
Jurin (Forest of Higan
Villuge
Naka-kanbara-gus
Cherry-Tree in Oyrrida)
Sado Kobubunji-ato
H.S.
H.S. Dao. 1929
Mano
Mano Villaga.
(Ruins of Sado Kokubun-
Village
Sado-gun
ji (Temple)
Sado Bukyojo-uto
HS.
H.S. Da. 1929
Aikana
Aiknwa Township
(Ruins of the Sado Magis-
Township
Sado-gun
trate's Offica)
Nakamura no Osuzi
N.H.P.
B.
Hnkusan
Hojo village,
(Giant Japanese Codar
Shrine
Kariha-
in Nakanura)
Ugawea Jinja no Okeyaki
N.H.P.
B. Feb. 1930
Ugawa
Tn kada. Villuge.
(Giant Zalkova Tree at
Shrine
mriha-gun
Ugame Shrine)
Kaiya no Okatauld-icho N.H.P.
B.
Kanazuka
Kanasuin Villageg
(Obatsuld Ginko Tree at.
villago
Ki ta-kanbara
Kaiya)
Shobuzuln Kofun
HS.
H.S. Apr. 1930
Mineoka
Hhohiokm ville
(Shobusuka Old Mound)
village
Meiji Tonno Nisaki Go- H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1933
Nigorikmwa
shokmijo. (Mmporor Meiji's
village.
Restin3 Place in Nisakd)
Tochihire Sakmm Jurin N.H.P.
B. June 1994
Mine of
(Foreet of Cherry tress
Agriealture Ee
La Toshihira)
B.S.
8.5. Mny 1954

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.95)
Tenno Niigata
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1934
Nigata City
Bisho-ato oyobi Tate-
(Chotolauji
no (Ruins of Emperor
Temple)
biji's Pla∞ of Sojourn
and Structure.)
Meiji Tenno Ryusakuba
H.S.
HS.
Niigata
Oasa Ryusaluba.
Goshokoijo (Emperor Mei ji's
City
Niigata City
Resting Place in Ryusakuba)
Meiji Tenno Takada An- H.S.
H.S. Mar. 1935
Takada
Ote-umchi.
saisho (Eaperor Meiji'a
City
Takada City
Place of Sojourn in Takada)
Meiji Tonno Arai Anzai- H.S.
H.S.
Shinshu
Arai-maohi,
sho (Emperor Mei ji's Place
Otani-ha
Nakakubild-gun
of Sojourn in Arai)
Aroi Betsuin
(Temple)
Meiji Tenno Iwamuro
HS.
H.S.
Iwanuro
Iwanuro Village.
Goshokeijo (Emperor Mei ji's
Village
Nishi-kanbura-gun
Resting Place in Iwauro)
Kasugayana Jco hi
H.3.
H.S. Aug. 1935
Kasugayam msuga Village.
(Ruins of Kasuguynnn
Historic
Nekalaubiki-gun
Castle)
Site Pro-
serving Society
Meiji Tenno Sanjo n-
H.S.
HS. July 1936
Shinshu
Son jo,Sanjo City
zaisho-ato (Ruins of
Otuni-ha
Emperor Mei ji's Place
Sanjo Betauin
of Sojourn in Sanjo)
(Temple)
Meiji Tenno Mitsuko
HS.
H.S. Nov. 1936
Miteuku
Mitsuke Tomahip.
Ansaisho (Fmperor Meiji's
Township
Minami-kanbare-gun
?lace of Sojourn in Mitsuke)
Leiji Tenno Katamchi H.S.
H.S.
Katamchi
Katarnchi Village.
Anzaisho (Emperor Meiji's
village
Nokakubild-gun
Place of Sojourn in Kata-
aohi)
Giji Tenno Ishiji An-
HS.
H.S.
Isiiji
Ishiji Township.
smisho (Emperor Meiji's
Township
Kariha-gun
Plae of Sojourn in Ishiji)
iji Tenno Shiya Go- H.S.
H.S.
Takahmma
Takahama Towns hip.
hokmijo (Emperor Meiji's
Township
Kariha-gun
ating Place in Shiya)
aji Tenno Tagami Go- H.S.
HS.
Private
Tagami Village,
mijo (Emperar Meiji's
Owmer endMinami-knnbara-gan
ing Place in Tagami)
Tagami village
Renno Omote Go- H.S.
HS.
Chonenji
Omote Vil
ror Meiji'a
(Temple)
H.S.
HB. Nov. 1936
Private

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.94)
AR-231-CR-S-1
REASON
CLASSI FOR
FICATION DESD.
Mushikawa no Osugi
N.I.P.
B. pr. 1937
Halaisan
(Giant Japanes Cedar
Shrine
in Mushikawa)
Peikan-en
S.S.
S.S. June 1937
Teikan-en
Takayamaki
(Teikan Garden)
Reservation ariha-gun
Society
Tashiro no Nanatsugama
Ss.
S.S.
Nakafukami
Noka fukami vill
(Nanatsugamo (Seven
N.H.P.
G.M.
Village
Nakanomura-gun
Pots)in Tashiro)
Leiji Tenno Sekigawa An- E.S.
II.S. July 1937
Nakayana
Nakayam Vi.llage
jaisho-ato (Ruins of Emperor
Village
Naka bub:ki-gun
ieiji's Place of Sojourn
in Sekigawa)
leiji Tenno Futamata
H.S.
HS.
7
ioshokei jo-ato (Ruins of
Emperor Mei ji's Resting
lace in Futanta)
leiji Tenno ihongi
H.S.
H.S.
Private
Naka c Va Llage.
roshokeijo-ito (Ru: ns of
Owner
Nakahuuilu-sun
Smperor Meiji's Res ting
lace in Ni.ongi)
leiji Tenno aniz
HS.
H.S.
Wada
Wada Villo
osnokeijoto (Runs of
Village
Nakalabi ki-zun
imperor Meijx's Resting
lace in Ishizawa)
əi ji Tenno Yukinohara HS.
H.S.
Katamachi
Katame ond lllage.
oshokeijo (Enporor Meiji's
Village
Nakc.kibik.-gun
esting Place in Yukinohara)
eiji Tenno Kakizakd
H.S.
H.S.
Private
Kakiza's Village.
nzaisho-ato (Ruins of
Owner
Nak.kubixi-gun
Imperor Mei ji's Place of
ojourn in Kakizli)
H.S. July 1937
Yoneyama
Yoneyu Villaga
Leiji Tenno Kamiwa Shin- H.S.
Village
Nakakbikt gun
len Goshokaijo (Emperor
Aeiji's Resting Place in
aniwa)
feiji Tenno Omigawa An- H.S.
H.S.
aisho (Emperor Meiji's
lace of Sojourn in Omigawa)
Aeiji Tenno Higashinowa H.S.
II.S.
Kashiwa-
zaki Town-
Onodachijo (Emperor Meiji's
ship
former Field Hoadquarters
in Higashinowa)
miji Tenno Isumosaki
KS.
H.S.
Isnonald
saisho-ato (Ruins of
Township
or Meiji's Place

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.95)
H.S. July 1937
Private
biji Tonno Fumoto Go- H.S.
Owner
sholmijo (Emperor Meiji's
Resting Place in Fumoto)
Meiji Tonno Takenommchi H.S.
NS.
Mineoka
Mineolm Villa
Village.
Nishikanbara-
Goshokeijo (Emperor Mei ji's
Resting Place in Takenomachi)
Meiji Tenno Akatsuka
H.S.
HS.
Private
Owmer
Mishikanbara-gun
Alatsuka Village.
Anzaisho (Emperor Meiji's
Place of Sojourn in
Akatsuka)
Meiji Tenno Arakawa
H.S.
H.S.
tsuur
Matsuura Village.
Village
·Kitakanbara-gun
Goshokeijo (Emperor Meiji's
Resting Place in Arakawa)
Moiji Tonno Yumzald
H.S.
HS.
Sasaoka
Village
Sasaoka-Village.
Kitakanbara-gun
Goshokeijo (Baperor Meiji's
Resting Place in Yaazaki)
Meiji Tenno Mizuhara
H.S.
H.S.
Mizubara
village
Mizu'ara Village.
Ki te kanbara-gun
Anzaisho (Eaperor Mi ii's
Place of Sojourn in Mist-
bara)
Meiji Tenno Nitsu An-
H.S.
H.S. July 1937
rrivate
Ormer
Nitsu Township.
Nakakanbara-gun
zaisho-ato (Ruins 
Emperor Meiji's Flace
of Sojourn in Nitsu)
Meiji Tenno Miyamoto
H.S.
HS.
Miyanoto
village
Miyamoto Villaga
Santo-gun
Anzaisho-ato (Ruins of
Emperor Mei i's Place
of Sajourn in Miyamoto)
Meiji Tenno Sochi Go-
H.S.
HS.
Nakadori
Nakadori Village.
Village
Khriha-gun
shokoijo (Emperor Mei ji's
Resting Place in Sochi)
Meiji Tenno Iwatckaigan H.S.
H.S.
Kasuga
Village
Knsuga village.
Nakaiubikd-gun
Onodachijo (Empe rer Mei ji's
Former Field Headqunrters
in Iwato Cast)
Meiji Tenno Nagahama
H.S.
H.S.
Tanihama
Village
Taniham Village.
Nakakeijo-gun
Goshokijo-c to (Ruins of
Emperor Meiji's Resting
Place in Nagahama)
Moiji Tenno Chayagahara H.S.
H.S.
Goshoksijo-ato (Ruins of
pror Mei ji's Resting
in Chayagahara)
H.S.
Nadate
Indate Tommship
Township
Nishimbikd
HS.
Isobe
village

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.94)
AR-231-0R-2-1
REASON
CLASSI-
FOR
NAVE
VICATION DESID.
Meiji Tonno Onibuse
HS.
HS.
Uremoto
Goshokeijo (Eaperor Mei ji'a
village
Resting Place in Onibuse)
Meiji Tanno Kajiyashiki H.S.
H.S.
Yamatogawa
Yaitatogawe
Goshokeijo (Emperor Meiji's
Village
Nishikubild
Resting Placo in Kajiyashild)
Meiji Tenno Itoigava
H.S.
H.S.
d
Itoignwa
Itoigawa Tonship
Anzaisho-ato (Ruins of
Towmship
Nishikubild-gun
Enperor Mei ji's Place of
3ojourn in Itoigawa)
'Heiji Tenno Mizugakubo. H.S.
H.S. July 1937
Omi
Oni Township.
Onodachi-jo (Eaperor
Township
Nishikubikd-gun
Meiji's Former Field Head-
quarters at Mizugakubo)
Meiji Tenno Shirogane
IH.S.
H.S.
Utoha
Utoba Villago,
Onodacai-jo (Eaperor
Village
Nishikubikd-gun
Mei ji's Former Field Hoad-
quarters at Siir gane)
Meiji Tenno Kasuivnzaki H.3.
H.S. Aug. 1937
Kashiwazaki Kashiwazald Town-
Anzaisho (Emperor Meij!'s
Townsip
ship. Kariha-gun
Place of Sojourn in
Kasniwaza d.)
Nofu Hhkusan Jinje
N.H.P.
B. Dac. 1927
Haiusan
Nafu To:mship.
Shaso (Bush at Nofu
Sirine
Nishikubild-gun
Hakusan Shrine)
Hiranezaki no Hasholau
N.h.P.
G.M. July 1940 . Min. of.
Kaneizuni Village.
Oketsu Gun (Group of
Home
Sado-gun
Holas Eroded by Waves
Affairs
at Hirano Paint)
Kiyotsu Kyo
S.S.
S.S. pr. 1941
Min. of
Mitsumata Village.
(Siyotsu Vallay)
N.H.P.
GM.
griculture Minaminonuma-gun
Taza:n, Duramata
Villagee, Nakano
numa-gun
ruyana no Goka-bai
N.H.P.
B. . 1941
Maruyama
Matsugasa ld Village.
(Goka Plum Tree in
·Shrine
Sado-gun
(aruya.n)
Taukigata no Ruisan
N.H.P.
B. Nov. 1941
Tsukigata
Tsukigase Village,
Jashi (Ruisan Pear
village
Nakakanbara-gun
Tree in Tsukigata)
Tenjusha no Osugi
N.H.P.
B.
Tenjin
Noka yama Village
(Grant Japanese Cedar
Shrine
Nakakubikd-gun
at Tenjin Shrine)
Nofu Himeharuzemi Has- N.H.P.
Z. Oct. 1942 Not given
Notu Tomehis
seichi (Habitat of Hineharu
Nishiabikd-
Cloade in Nofu)
Haneyoshi no Olase
N.H.P.
B.
(Giant Mulberry Tree

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.96)
iji Temo Kamo Anzai- H.S.
H.S. Sept. 1943 Not given
Kamo Tow
Minani-l
ho-ato (Ruins of Emperor
Meiji's Plac∞ of Sojourn
in mamo)
Meiji Tenno Yaada Go-
H.S.
H.S.
Teradomari Township.
Mishima-gun
shoksijo-ato (Ruins of
Emperor Mei ji's Restin
Plac∞ in Ya.nda)
POYIMA
asani Kaizuka
H.S.
H.S. Mar. 1922
Hini
Himi Township.
Township
Himi-gun
(sahi Shell Mound)
Ozakaido-kutsu Jukyo-
Il.S.
H.S. Mar. 1922
Uha
Uha Village
villago
Himi-gun
ato (Rema ins of Dwell-
ings in Ozaki Cave)
Hotaru-ika Gumyuchi
N.H.P.
Z.
Toyama
Higashi-mizuhashi
Prefecture
Towns hi, Nakashin-
abitat of (ilutasenia
kawa-gun
Scintillans) Luminous
Cuttle Fish)
Junichogata Oniba
N.li.P.
B. Mar. 1923
Junicho
Junicho Village,
Village
Himi-gun
Iasseichi (Junicho-gita
(Craek) Giant Lotus
Habitat)
B. Dec. 1924
Ki tahannya
Kitahannya Village.
Kitahannya no Bishamon N.H.P.
Village
Higashi-tonami-gun
Sugi (Bisiamon Japanese
Cedar in Kitahanry)
Oct. 1926
Hiai
Himi Township.
Jyonichi-ji no Kosonju N.H.P.
Township
Himi-gun
(Ginko Tree In Jyonichi-
ji (Temple)
Waldya no Tochinold
N.H.P.
B. Oct. 1926
Toshiga
Tosniga Village.
Village
Higashi-tonami-gun
(Horse-Chestnut in
Wakiya)
Toshiga no Tochinoki
N.H.P.
B.
Toshiga
Toshiga Village,
village
Higashi-tonamirgun
(Horse Chestnut Tree
in Tosniga)
Oiwa Nissekiji Sekd-
H.S.
H.S. July 1930
Nissekiji
Oishi Village
(Temple)
Nakani-gun
outsu (Stone Buddha at
I.issekiji (Tample in Oiwa)
Meiji Tonno Sekido An-
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1933
Sekido
Sekido Towmship.
Township
Nishi-tonami-gun
zaisho (Emperor Meiji's
Place of Sojourn in
sekddo)
iji Tonho Uotsu An-
HS.
H.S.
Uotau
Uotsu Tomship
Township
Shimo-nizawa-gun
sho (Emperor Mei ji's
of Sojourn in Uotsu)
iTemo Tomari An-
H.B.
H.S. Nov. 1933
Tomari
Tomari Towmships
Township
biji's

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.94)
CLASSI-
FICATION
Meiji Tonno Nakajaya
H.3.
H.3. Nov. 1934
Nishilarebe
Goshokeijo (Emperor Muiji's
vilrage
Resting Place in Nakajaya)
eiji Tenno Nyuzen Go- HS.
H.3.
Private
Nyusan Townshise
shokeijo (Emperor Meiji's
Owner
Shimo-niga-
Restiny Place in Iriyoshi)
Sakuradani Kofun
H.S.
H.S. Dee. 1934
Ota
Ota village.
(Sakuradani Old Mound)
village
Himi-gun
Miyazald-knahima Juso N.H.P.
B. Dec. 1936
Miyazaki
Miyasald Villago.
(Bush in Miyazakd Kshima)
village
Shimo-nigawm-gun
Uotsu Maibotsurin
N.H.P.
GM.
Uotsu
Uotsu Towmship.
(Buried Forest in Uotsu)
Tomship
Shimo-nigamn-gin
Meiji Tenno Jikoji Go- IH.S.
IH.3. July 1937
Daitolauji
Heta Villago,
shokeijo (Emperor Meiji's
(Temple)
Shimo-aigama-gn
Restin Place in Jikoji
(Temple)
Muiji Tunno Gankaiji Go- H.S.
H.S.
Private
Oita Village,
shokeijo (Emporor Meiji's
Owner
Imizu-gun
Resting Placu in Gankaiji
(Teaple)
Meiji Tanno Oiwake Go- H.S.
.... Dac. 1938
Satsuld-
Satsuld-kasumi
s hokeijo (Emperor Mei ji's
Kaz uai
Village,
Resting Place in Oiwal)
village
Naka-nigama-gun
Privato
Owner
Meiji Tanno Gafula Go- Hi.S.
HS.
Toya
Gofuka, Toyana City
shokeijo (Emperor Meiji's
City
Resting Place in Gofuku)
Meiji Tenno Kutsukake
HS.
H.S. Sept 1939
Sakrai
Sakrai Towmship.
Goshokeijo (Emporor Moiji's
Towmship
Shimo-nikawa gun
Resting Place in Kutsukake)
Iikubo no Hyotanishi
N.H.P.
GaM. June 1941
Fuse
Fuse Village,
(Gourd-shaped Rock in
village.
Himi-gun
Iikubo)
Itani no Haisha Kosha
N.H.P.
GaM. Oct. 1941
Hosoiri
Hosoiri Village.
Geologioal Formation
Village
Nehi-gun
(Anticline and Synolino)
at Itani)
Meiji Tenno Mikkaichi
HS.
H.S. June 1944
Not siven
Sakre Townshipe
maisho (B 
Empuror Maiji's Placo of
Sojourn in Mikkaichi)
Tateyama Yannzaki Ken- N.H.
GM.
Tateyama Villages
koke (Geologioal Forma-
Nalm-nigawa-gun
tion (Kar) at Yamazaki on
Ut. Tateyama)
Yaksidak no Konkoku N.H.P.
GM.
Oyamm vi1la
gun (Geological Farma-
Dund
tion (r) at Yaashidak
(aso)

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.93)
Eenrok-on
s.s.
S.S. Mar. 1922
Ishikowa
Shimoishihi
(Eenroku Garden)
Prefooture
Ichibaa-cho
Jimyoin Myoren-ike
N.H.P.
B.
Mar. 1923
Jimyoin
Anoshindo, Rolau-
(Myoren Pond at Jiryo-
(Tomple)
ban-cho, Kanasama
in (Temple)
Salmi no Baba-shii
N.H.P.
B. Ost. 1926
Yold
Yold Village,
(Baba Pasania Tree in
village
Rashima-gun
Sakai)
Shinohara-iura no Kon- N.H.P.
B. ipr. 1927
Shinohara
Shindhara Village,
myo-dako (Konmyo Bamboo
village
Enuma-gun
at Shinohara Village)
Kenrok-en no Kiku-
N.H.P.
B.
Nov. 1928
Ishikawa
Dowa-machi.
zakura (Kikl Cherry Tree
Prəfacture Knazawe City
in Lanrokm Garden)
Kashiwano no Osugi
N.H.P
B.
Suganara
Nishitani Village,
(Giant Japanese Cedar in
Shrine.
Énumā-gún
msnimano)
Nmyadera (Nakokaji) Kuri S.S.
S.s. pr. 1929
Nakokuji
Nakolau Villego,
Tei-en (Garden of Nakokuji
(Temple)
Enuma-gun
(Temple)
Narumikaku Tei-on
s.s.
ss.
Iuhikawa
Shimoishihikd
(Gardən of Narumikaku)
Prefecture
machi,
Kanazawa City
Ho-zan Yokoana Kofun
H.S.
IH.S. Doc. 1929
Chokushi
Chokushi Village.
(Old Mound in H-oan
village
Enuma-gun
Cave)
Kitsuneyam Kofun
H.S.
HS. Apr. 1932
(Old Mound in Xitsune-
yamm) (Mountain)
Meiji Tenno Kaazama
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1933
Nakaya
Minami-paohi.
Ansaishor (mmperor Mei ji'a
Store-Ltd. Manasawa City
Plaee of Sojoärn in
Xnasawa)
Meiji Tenno Komatsu
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1933
Mokuren-ji Saias-machi
Ansaisho (Eaperor Meiji's
(Tample)
Komatsu City
Pmee of Sojourn in
Xăm teu)
Meiji Tonno Morimoto
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1934
Morimoto
Morimoto Villaga,
Goshoksijo (Emperor Meiji's
villogo
Eamaldi ta-gun
sting Place in Morimoto)
miji Tomno Touldima
HaS.
H.S. Nov. 1934
Kosoji
Taukisu Village,
solmeijo (maperoe Moiji's
(Tamplo)
inz Plece in Toukizu)
H.S.
H.S. Dac. 1934
Nanao
Cisy

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.94)
Kashima no Mori
N.H.P.
3.
ug. 1998
(Forest at Kashima)
Suamtsu Haiji-ato
H.S.
H.S. Sept. 1939
Tomiol
village
(Ruins of Suematsu.
Former Temple)
ES. July 1940
Iburibashi
Iburibashi
Meiji Tenno Iburibashi H.S.
Viilage
Enuma-gui
Goshokeijo (Emporor Meiji's
Resting Place in Iburi-
bashi)
Yamashinano Dai Keiwa
N.H.P.
G.M. June 1941
K.nzawa
City
Yamishine To
Kanazawn Cit
So-kusekd Sanohi to
Olatsu (Graat Bed of
Fossil Mu berry Trses
in Yamashi. and Holes)
Sosogi Kican
S.S.
S.S. Mar. 1942
Macrino
Township
Mec.in Towmsh
-
(Sosogi Coast)
Dogatu no Shii no Ki
N.H.P.
B. A. 1943
Not given
Hirosalx -dori,
Kanozem City
(Pasania Tree at
Dugata)
4-ctome. noda
Shogetsuji no Sak.ra
N.H.P.
B.
mi. 
(Cherry Tres at Shoge-
City
tsuji (Tomp:c)
Shiramine Vill
Iwanonesha no Oieyaki
N.H.P.
B.
Nobi-gun
(Giant Zelkova Tree
at Ivanone Shrine)
Nishitani vill
Hachiman Jinja no
N.H.P.
B.
Enuma-gun
Osugi (Giant Japanese
Cedar at H:chiman. Shria)
Daiseiji Townshij
N..P.
B.
Inunosava Konmyo-dake
Enuma-gun
(Koninyo Banboo at
Inunosawa)
1-chome Nomméh
Shinmyo no Keyakt
N.li.P.
B.
Knazamm City
(Zelkova Tree in Shinmyo)
Kushi jeye Tou
H.S. June 1944
Meiji Tonno Kushijaya
Kamatmu City
Goshokaijo (Rnperor Meiji's
Resting Place in Zushijaya)
TUKIJI
Tomyoji Nawate Nitta
H.S.
H.S. Dac. 1924
Not given
Nishi-uji
Village. Y
Yoshisada Senbotau Den-
setauchi (Tomyoji Namate,
placo whera Yoshisada Nitta
Alleged. to hava/killad
in Battle)
N.H.P.
B.
Ishidoshiro Ishi
Vi1lago

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.93)
tokaaji Toi-on
s.s.
3.s. Deo. 1929
Rolcolaj1
(Garden of Rokokaji)
(Tomple)
(Temple)
Nishiyama Koshoji-ato
H.S.
H.S. July 1930
Ichijodani
Ichijodand villa
(Ruins of Nishiyama
village
Asuka-gun
Koshoji) (Tample)
Ichijodani Asakurashi
HS.
H.S.
Yakata-ato fu Nanjoji-
ato (Ruins of Manshion of
Amakira Family in Ichijo-
dani and Ruins or Nanjoji)
(Temple)
Maruyam-han Hodai-ato
H.S.
H.S. Au. 1930
Oshima
Oshima Villago.
(Ruins of Battery of the
Village
Sakai-gun
Maruyam Clan)
Kyu Gensei-in Tei-on
S.S.
S.S. Oct. 1930
Heisenji
Heisenji Village.
(Old Garden of Gensei-in)
village
Ono-gun
(Private Home)
Obama Jinja no Kyuhon
Nolio.
B. Mar. 1931
Obaina
Obama Towmship.
Dano (Nino Da.no Plants
Shrino
Oniu-gun
at Oba.m Shrine)
Mantokuji no Yammo..
N..P.
B. Junu 1931
 t.aji
Oriu Villaage.
miji (Wild Maple Trees
(Temple)
Oniu-gun
in Mantokuji) (Temple)
Mantokuji Tei-en
S.3.
S.S. Mar. 1932
(Garden of Mantokuji)
Temple)
Seifukuji Shoin Tei-en
S.S.
S.S. Apr. 1932
Seifulauji
Tauruga-City
(Garden of Seifukuji)
(Tumple)
(Temple)
Talura-mura .Itoshi Tei-S.S.
s.s.
Takura
Takura Villago.
en (Ito Garden in
Village
Nanjo-gun
Takura Village)
Amano-mura Shibatashi
s.s.
s.s.
Private
wano Village.
Tei-en (Shibata Garden
Omer
Tsuruga-gun
in Amno Village)
Meiji Tenno Maruoka
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1933
Maruoka
Maruoka Towns hip.
Ansaisho (Emperor Meiji's
Toimship
snzi-gun
Place of Sojourn in
taruoka)
City.
CEmperor Meiji's
City
of Sojourn in
s.s.
3.9. June 1994
Uehisotomi Uchisotom
village
ES. Mar. 1994

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.92)
CLASSI-
FICATION D
Hongan Shimizu Itoyo
N.H.P.
Z. May 1934
Ono
Seisokohi (Eutliyop-
village
teroma Virgatum Hout-
tuya) Fish Tabitat in
Hongan Shimizu)
Muiji Tunno Laajo An-
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1934
Foundation
Im jo Vi llago
zaisho (Emporor Moiji's
F. jun
Nanjo-gu1
Place of Sojourn in Imajo)
So ioty
Meiji Tanno Takofu n-
H.S.
. ..
Insetsuji
Taxe fu Toumshi
zaisho (Emperor Meiji's
(Tmple)
Nanjun
Ploeo of So:ourn in
Takefu)
Moiji Tunno Waki oto
H.S.
H.S.
Minami-hino-
Mi nomi Lino
Gos. skoijo Eap r Meiji's
Village
villo. Nanto
Resting Pio in Fakimoto)
Mui ji Tonno Asamizu Go-.
II.S.
sozu
g ou vage
shokeijo (E peror Meiji's
village
Restins Placs in asa.dizu)
T. eda Ken moi Too Hhato. H.S
H.S. Doc. 1934
Tsuruga
Tarruga City
(Tomb of Kosei Pseda)
City
Tojinb
No.
GM. June 1935
Oshima
Oshi v. Village.
(Sea Const)
3.S.
3.s.
Villago
Salar-gun
reregai Sujsokchi
N.H.P.
Z.
Fului
Salaya Village,
Unusual Plint Habitat
Prefecture
Ono-gun; Nalmfu-
(asaarius Gomulatus)
jishima Village.
Yoshida-gun
Senpulaji no Oyald
N.H.P.
B.
Sunpuku-ji
Kamijo Village.
(Giant Zelix va Troo
(Taaple)
Ono-gun
in Senpuky (Templo)
Hc kasan Heisen ji Joshi
HS.
H.S. . 1935
Halusan
Hojsonji Village
(Ruins of Hakisan Hoi-
Shrine
Ono-gun
senji Castle)
Sugimori Jinja no Oha- N.H.P.
B.
Sugimori
Seigo Village.
tsuld-icho (Ühatsuld
Shrine
Oii-gun
Ginko Tree in Sugimori
Shrine)
Nishizuka Lcun
HS.
H.S. Dac. 1935
Uryu
Uryu Village.
(Nisi izuka Cid Mound)
 Villago
Oniu-gun
Uenotsuk Kofun
H.S.
HS.
(Usnotsuki Old Mound)
Nakazukt Kofun
H.S.
H.S.
(Nakazuken Old Mound)
Kanifunasuka Kofun
HS.
H.S.
Miyake
(Emifunasuln Old Mound)
village
Shimofunasuk Kofun
H.S.
H.S.
(Shimofunesukn Old Mound)
H.B. Nov. 1936
HS

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.93)
CLASSI-
FOR
FICATION DESIG.
siji Tomo Sababa
I.S.
II.S. Nov. 1936
Minami-so-
miyama
villa
shokeijo (Emperor Meiji's
village
Rostinz Place in Sabaha)
Shinpukaji mheru Village.
Moiji Tenno Shindo Go- H.S.
.3.
(Telple)
Nanjo-gun
shokmijo (Emperor Moiji's
Resting Placa in Shindo)
H.S.
Togo
Togo Village.
Meiji Tenno Kinomotogo H.S.
Villago
Tsuruga-gun
Goshokijo (Empurar Maiji's
Reating Plaa in Kiname-
togo (Ridge)
H.S.
Meiji Tenno Khshingari H.S.
Goshokijo (Emperor Muiji's
Resting Placo in Kashima-
gari)
Meiji Temo Tone Go-
Ii.S.
1.3.
Privuto
Owner
Arachi Villago,
Bauruga-Gn
shokeijo (Emperor Meiji's
Rostin Place in Tone)
Hachi, Nishida.
Mikata Goko
S.S.
S.3. Junc 1937
Minani Saigo.
(Five Lakes in Mikata)
Kitasaigo Villages,
Mikataun
Tozo Village.
H.S. Feb. 1940
Togo
Meiji Tenno Hubara Go- H.S.
villago
Tauruga-sun
shokei jo (Emperor Neiji's
Resting Placo Placo in
Habara)
Meiji Tonno Kihimatsu-
H.S.
Ii.S. July 1940
Dept. of
Tsurugu City
Agriculturo
lara Onod cinjo
(Emperor Meiji's Fiold
Headquarturs in Kihimatsu-
bara)
YAMAN4SII
Kai Kokubunji-ato
HS.
H.3. 0ct. 1922
Io.inaniya
village
Ichinomiya Village.
Yatsushiro-gun
(Ruins af Khi Kokubunji)
(Temple)
H.S. 0ot. 1922
Take kwa
Takoknwa Village,
Yamataka Koniyo-zakura H.S.
village
Ki takoma -gun
(Old Cherry Tree in Yamataka)
Onta ke Shosenkyo
N.H.P.
B. Mar. 1923
Yamanashi
Profecture
malakona-gun
Nishiyamanashi-gun.
(Shosen Valley in Mt.
Untalko)
Pachidate no Osugi
s.s.
S.S. Dec. 1924
Kina
Shrine
Ichinamiya Village.
Higashi-yatsushiro-
Giant Japnese Cedar
gun
Sashidata)
n Genshirin
N.H.P.
B. ,Feb. 1926
Yamamashi
Hue
Profacture
al Forest on
NoHoP.
B. June 1928
Shrihe

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.91)
FICATION DESE. 
June 1928
Mishima
Mishima Jinja no Okoyaki N.H.P. B.
Shrine
(Giant Zelkova Tree at
Miahima Shrine)
Kawaguchi no Ohinokd
N.H.P.
B.
Feb. 1928
Sengon
Shrine
Minamitauru
maguchi
(Giant Jupan Cypress
in Kawaguchi)
B.
Mar. 1928
Ya anashi
Fukichi Villago.
Tsutsujigahara no Renge NoH.P.
rroiecture Minamiluru-gun
Tsutsuji oyobi iji-
zakura Gunsei (Wild
Rhododendrn Jica &
Wild Prunt Ina n Habi-
tat in Tout ujigulara)
Sa imu: no oyaki
N.H.P.
B.
Nov. 1928
Sa kot
Viilage
Sankei 311a.
N. . 
(i ut Zuv oe in
Sui vi g
B.
Apr. 1929
Jotakuji
Srv Villago
Jotakaji ne Oha suld- N.H.P.
(Tmple)
M-n
cho (Ohat.  i Giko
Iree at Joiulauj: (Temple)
N.H.P.
G.M.• Dac. 1929
Yaanisli
Fun : C.xmahip
asu i Jui
Profecture
Minisuugun
(Prmon t
(ave)
B.. 4pr. 1929
Honzokuji
Shi: cyp villoge
Fongokuji a) Oh tsuki- N.H.P.
(Temple)
Minomilm-gun
icho (Ohnis ki Ginko
Tree at Hon okaji (Tenple)
N.H.P.
z.
Doc. 1929
Ya.nnashi
Nishiko Village.
Nishiko Komeri-ana
Prefacture
Minamittsuru-gun
obi Kr. (Bat Cave
and Bats at Nishiko)
Khmi-ishilkd villad
N.H.P.
GM.
Fuji Fukte:
Nishiyatsushiro-sun
(Mt. Fuji Wind Tunnel)
N.HP.
GM.
Motosu Fuktsu
(Motosu Wind Tunnel)
Norusawn Village.
GM.
Kanza Fuketsu fu Kama- N.H.P.
Minamitsuru-gun
boko-ana oyobi Megane-
ana (Khnza Wind Tunnel
and Semi-ciroular Cave,
"Spectacles" Cave)
N.H.P.
GMo
Omuro Kolxtsu
(Qnuro Cavo)
amikishild vill
N.H.P.
GM.
Fugala Fukatsu
Nishiya tsushiro
(Fugaka Wind Tunnel)
N.H.P.
GM.
Ryugu Boktsu
(Ryugu Wind Tunnel)
Hyolcetou
NoH.P.
GM.
N.H.P.
GM.

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.92)
DICATION DESID, DESIG
Cheshisuin Kofun fu
HS.
H.S. eb. 1930
Shimosone
Garuyamasula Kofun (Cho-
village
Beisukn Old Mound and
Maruyannzuka Old Mound)
Momitoge no Qomi
N.H.P.
Uenohara
Uonoham villag
(Giant Fir Troe on Moni
vilago
Ki tatsuru-gun
(Fir) Ridge)
Kmtagava Gunjibotaru N.h.P.
B.
Nishijo
Nishijo Village,
Hassoichi (Firefly (Lucioca
villago
Nikakamn-gun
Cruciuta) Hnbitat by the
River Kmta)
Saruhashi
S.S.
S.s. Mar. 1932
0.
Omra Villye,
(Monley Bridge)
village
Ki tata uru-n
Gan no na
N.H.I.
G.M. Oct. 1932
Fukuchi
Fukuchi Village.
(Cave of Gan)
villago
Minanitst-un
Meiji Teano Sugavara
HS.
li.s. Nov. 1933
Frivato
Sugavara Villago,
Anzaisho (Enporor Mui ji's
Ovner
itakon-gn
Place of Sojourn in
Sugcwara)
Meiji Tenno Uenohara
H.S.
.3.
Uenpiura
Uenohara villago,
Anzaisho (Taperor :ei ji's
Villago
Kitatsuru-gun
Place of S. n i Uno
hare)
Bankyutn ne laizuru-
N.li.P.
B. Juno 1934
Bankyu-in
Takogave village.
Latsu (Mrizuru Pine Troa
(Tonplo)
Kitakaa-yun
at Bankyuin (Tample)
Ogatayamm no Jk yald
N.H.P.
B. May 193b
Inamura
Kanou Villago,
(Giant Zelkova Tree
Shrine
Minaitsuru-
un Mt. Ogata)
Oshino Hakai
N.H.P.
GM.
Yamnashi
Oshino Villago.
(Oshino Eight Srull
Frafecture
Minamitsuru-zun
Volcanio Laks)
Shiro-risu Saisokuchi N.Her.
Z..1934
Kiyoharu
Kiyoharu Village,
(Habitat of White Squirrel)
village
Oshino-gun
Tsubakuroiwa Ganmyaku N.H.P.
G.M. Dac. 1934
Miyanoto
Miyamoto Villege,
(Tsubakaroln Stono Dyko)
village
Naka ko n -gun
Turokoma no O-ume
N.Hor.. B. June 1935
Privato
Kurokan-Village,
(Giant Plum Tree in
Omer
Higashiyatsushiro-gur
urokonn)
sukshimori Otautsuji N.H.P.
B.
Yapnnao hi
Oisumi Village,
Wild alea
Prefeoturo Kitakoma-
Ueeukishimori)
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1935
Intsunuma
tsunuma Village
Maiji's
viliage
Higas hiyan nashi
GO H.S.
H.S.

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.92)
CLASBIO
FOR
NUE
FICATION DEBIG.
Meiji Tanno Maruno Go- H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1935
Privato
shokaijo (Emperor Maiji's
Omer
Rastinz rlace in Maruno)
Minobu-moni Bupposo
N.H.P.
Z. Dec. 1937
Minobu
Minobu To
Hanshokichi (Habitat af
Towns hip
Minamikana
Broad-billod Roller
Cuckoo in Minobu To:ns.ip)
Takωdasni Yakata -to
H.S.
H.S. May 1938
Kofu City,
Kofuchi-machi,
(Ruins of Tkeda Pi ily's
Takodn
Koru City
Mansion)
Strine
Yagisaa no Oitoukd-icho N.r. B. July 1940
Miyanane
Okochi Village.
(Ohatsuki Gini∞ True in
Sirine
Nishiyatoushiro
(agisewa)
Muiji Tunno Suwa Gosho H.S.
Ii.s. Juno 1944
Not ziven
Uenohara Tom
œijo-uto (Ruins of Eaperur
Kitatsuru-gun
1. iji's Restine Place
1 Suwn)
Mirinji Tei-on
Ss.
S.S. Juno 1944
Matsusato Villa
(Gurden of Keirinji)
Higashiyamanochi
(Te plo)
Uenoham no Okuyaki
N.H.P.
B.
Nov. 1944
Uunohara Tam
(Giant Zelkova Tros
Kitatsuru-gun
in Uunohera)
GANO
Hizashi-uchimura Shi-
N.He.
B. July 1920
Higashiuohi Higashiuohi Villa
dare Enokd (Weeping
Village
Chisagata-gun
Nettlo Treo in Higa-
shiuchi Village)
Ono-mura Siidaro-uri
NoHer.
B.
Ono
Ono villaga.
Jiseichi (Weuping Wild
village
kai-ina-gun
Chastnut Tree in Ono
Village)
Nishiuchi-mra Shidare- Noher.
B.
Nishiuchi
Nishiuchi Villaa
guri Jiseichi (Weepins
village
Chisagita-gun
Wild Chastnut Tree in
Nishiuchi Village)
Iwamurada Hikarigoks
N.li.
B. Mar. 1921
Imnurada
Ivarurada Towns
Janchi (Sohistostoga
Township
Itasaku-gin
Osmundced Sohimp) Luni-
nows Moss Habitat in
Ivammrada)
Fungu no Muzimeshi
N.H.P.
B.
Konoro
Sanchi (Habitat
Township  Dte
of Wheat-like Plant
(Cyana Thyae)
sumimura yunoka N..P.
G.M. Mar. 1922
oyobi Kyujo Sekmigan
 ad Round

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.92)
RRAGON
CLASSI-
FOR
FICATION DESIG, DESIG.
Asaka-mura Hananokd
N...
B. Mar. 1922
800
 vill
Jiseichi (Wild oor Rubrum
villago
Shimoina-sun
var Pyonanthum Habitat)
Taira-rura Wakiyu no
N.H.P.
GM.
·Dopt. of
Taira villago.
oka oycbi Kyujo Suidciigan
Agriculture Kita-azumi-gun
(Hot Sprin: Hill ind
Round Lino Stone in
Taira Vill)
Neza no Toko
3s。
S.3. Mar. 1923
Not ivən
Nishichikun-gun
(Nezawe-no-toko, Rocly
Villoy)
Yatsugatak Ols-slaka- N..
B.
Mar. 1923
Min. of
Minamald villago,
nage Jiscicii (Wild
Agriculture Sala-un
Yullow Riododondron
on Mt. Yts t)
Shibuno Jigokudani
N.l.F.
GM. pr. 1927
hoion
Heion Village,
Funsen (Sprin: in Ji;ola
village
Shinotakai-an
Valley in Shibu)
Kurigochi
S.S. Mr. 1928
Min. of
Azuri Village,
(igochi lto u)
No.
N.li.P.
Ariculture Minuni-azumi-gun
Nakabo Onsen no  jo
.H.P.
G.M. 2ct. 1928
Ariaka Village.
Kis   (
Minani-azuni-gun
Silicic c (Sicous
Sinter) In Nicbo Hot
Springs)
Matsunoto-jo
IH.S.
E.S. Nov) 1950
Matsuloto
Kita-fukashi.
(Matsunoto Castle)
City
Matsunoto City
Shinano Ko'ubunji-ato
H.S.
H.S.
Krikam
Khnikowa Village.
(Ruins of Slin no Koku-
Villge
Chisaga ta-gun
bunji (Teaple)
Intate Sekcijidu Jukyo- H.S.
S.ub.1933
Shigeno
Siigano village.
ato (Ruins of (Stone age)
Village
Chisagata-gun
Dwellings in Intato)
Teranoura Sekd jidai
IH.S.
HS.
Jukyo-ato (Ruins of (Stone
) Dwelling in Toranoure)
Meiji Tenno Nigano An- HS.
H.S. Nov. 1933
Daikanjin
Motozon Township,
zaisho (Emperor Meiji's
Society
Nageno City
Place of Sojourn in Nagano)
Meiji Tenno Narai An-
H.S.
H.S.
Narakann
Narakawn village.
misho (Emperor Meiji's
village
Nishi-chikam-gun
of Sojourn in Narai)
1 Temo Shiojiri-toge H.S.
Shiojiri
Shiojiri Township.
shijo (Emparor Maiji's
Townshlip
Higashi-chikum-
Beadquartere in
iri Ridga)
8.9.
8.3. June 1934
Tatsue

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.94)
Moiji Tenno Maseguchi
HS.
H.S. Nov. 1934
Goshokijo (Emperor Meiji's
Restin Placo in Maseguchi)
Uoda Joahi
HS.
H.S. Dec. 1934
Ueda City Ueda Giy
(Ruins of Uada Castle)
Juno 1935
Ontake
Miteudak vill
Mitsudak-mura Bupposo N.H.P.
3hrine.
Nishi-chi:uma
Hanshokuchi (Habitat
Hachinan
of Broad-billed Roller
Sirine
Cuckoo at Mitsud:kω Village)
Meiji Tunno Gyokojo
i.S.
H.S. Nov. 1935
Matsunoto
Minami fulnoh
City
Mats moto Cit
Kaichi Gakko (Kichi
School Visited by
Enperor Muiji)
Meiji Tonno S.inraku
H.S.
HS.
Idogawn,
Pos m to City
Goshokeijo (Emporor Muiji's
Resting Flace in Shinraku)
B. Doc. 1935
Suzakura
Imoi Villge,
Suzakura Jinja no Kai- Noli.
Sirine
Kant-mniching
yo-zaaure (old Cimrry
Treo at Suzakura rine)
Iimori Matsu
N.H.P.
B.
Nobetoku Viliege
Shrino
Shimo-takai-gun
(Iimori rin Troe)
Iwmmurada no kii
N.H.P.
B.
Iwamura da
I n Tomab
Tonship
Kita-scku-gun
Matsu (Lioi rine Troo
in Iwamurada)
H.S. Nov. 1936
Nishinaga. Nishinngakura
Moiji Tunno Oiwnka An- H.S.
kum villago village. nta
zaisho (E..poror Muiji's
a.ku-gun
lace of Sojourn in Oiwake)
Meiji Tenno Iwas ita
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1936
Kanikawa
Zamikwa villad
village
Chisagata-gun
Goshokaijo (Euperor Muiji's
Rusting Place in Iwasiita)
Meiji Tenno Nezuni julau H.S.
H.S.
Nanjo
Nanjo Villaga
village
Ianishimi-gan
Goshokeijo (Emporor Meiji's
Resting Plaee in Nezud-
juku)
Meiji Tenno Lri Go-
HS.
H.S.
Frivato
Imai, Oaya Cit
Owner
shokeijo (Eperor Maiji's
Restins rlaoe in Ini)
Maiji Tunno Tago Gosho- H.S.
H.S. pr. 1927
Walatsuld
Wakntsuld vil
village.
Kamiminachi
keijo (Emperor Meiji's
(Togo Shrine)
Resting Place in Tago)
Shika vilk
Yashimagahara Shitsu- N.H.P.
B. Sept. 1939 Shika
villago
Suwa-gun
gen Shokubutsu Gunrakau
(Swamp Plante in Yashima-
gahara)
B.

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.93)
 Tummo Myano Go- H.S.
H.S. Fob, 1940
Miyagawn
village
sijo (Epperor Muiji's
stiny Place in Kayano)
Meiji Tenno Shiio-suwu HS.
H.S.
Private
Shimo-suwa Tommship
Goshokijo (Emperor Muiji's
Omor
Suwa-gun
Resting Place in Shimo-suwa)
Moiji Tenno Hirookr Go- h.3.
..3.
Hirook
Hirooka Village.
shokmijo (Emperor Meiji's
villago
Higashi-cilama-gun
Rosting slace in Hirooka)
Shiayama no Mato-iwa
N.H.P.
G.M.
0sa
Osa Villazo.
(Mato Rock on Mt. Shia)
villago
Chisazata-un
Meiji Tenno Gohm Go- H.S.
II.. July 1940
Gofukaji
Hirooka Viilage.
(Taaplo)
Higashichika
shokeijo (Emporor Moiji'a
Restin3 Place in Gohara)
Yokazawa no Hebi-ishi N.H.P.
GM.
Kewashim
Khwashila Villago,
(Snake Rock in Yokogawa)
village
mami-ina-gun
Moiji Tenno Tarngomo
lioS.
H.S. Au3. 1940
1zum Village.
Goshokeijo (Emper or Meij: 's
Villago
Nishi-chikma-gun
Resting lace in Tsumzoe)
Maiji Tenno Sah.r aeva H.S.
H.S.
Narakawa
Narakaan village.
Goshokei jo Emp cor Meiji:s
village
Nishi-ohilama-gun
Restinz co in Sa.urazawa)
Meiji Tonno Nezume Go- H.S.
H.S.
Kuniratsu
Kanimatsu Township.
hokijo (Emperor Meiji's
Township
Nishi-ohikama-gun
Reating Plae in Nuzame)
Meiji Tenno HiruGosho-
HS.
H.S. June 1941
Nckautsu
Nakatsu Village,
Lmijo (Emporor Meiji's
Villago
Sarashina-gun
Resting Place in Haru)
Meiji Tenno Subara n-
HS.
H.S. Feb. 1941
Joshoji
Taiso Village.
saisho (Emperor Muiji's
(Tample)
Nishi-chikama-gun
Place of Sojourr. in Subara)
Benseld Sakkijidai Is-
H.S.
H.S. oot. 1942
Toyohira
Toyohira Villago,
eld (Remmins of Stone
villago
Suwa-gun
in Eminodai)
iji Tenmo Togomachi
H.S. Sept. 1943 Not siven
Cruizawa Towmship.
shokijo (Emperor Moiji's
K tasaki-gun
sing Place in Toge Town-
Tonno Miyanokoshi H.S.
H.S. June 1944
Hiyoshi Village.
ijo (maperor Moi ji'a
Nishi-chikamn-gun
N.H.P.
B. June 1944

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.92)
Saknoto mra Hnnanoki
N.H.P.
B. July 1920
Jiseiohi (Wild Maploa.
(Aer Rubum Var Pyenant-
lum)-Habitat in Sakomoto
villago)
Kukuri-mura Sakuraiso N.H.P.
B.
LDuuri
Jisuichi (Wild Prirose
village
Habitat in Kulauri Villuge)
Mino Kokubunji-ato
H.S.
H.S. Mar. 1921
4ohaka
(Ruins of Mino Kokubunji
village
(Tanple)
Takolare-ura Shidare- N.E.P.
B.
Takshara
guri Jisjichl (Wild Woop-
village
ing Chostrut Troc Habitat
in Takehara Village)
Neo Dani Usuzumi-zakura N.H.P.
B. 0ot. 1922
Noo
Neo V11
(Usuzurii Chrry Trous in
village
Motosu-
Neo Valloy
Yazochi Enanoki.
N.H.P.
B.
Taulxohi
(Aoor Rub: um Vor.
Tormship
Pyonanth:un) Wilc ples
at Yazoc'n)
Tomita Hananokd Jiseichi N.H.P. B.
Hongo
Hongo
(Wild Map)ss (Acer Rubrum
village
Var Pyentmon) ribrtat
at Tamita)
Machidaira Hananokd Ji- N.H.P.
B.
Naogi
seichi (Wild Maples (Acer
Township
Rubrun Var Pyonanthum)
Habitat at Machidaira)
Ewnto Hananoki Jisei-
N.H.P.
B.
Kmato
chi (Wild Naplos (Acer
village
Rubrum Var Pyonanthun)
at Kamato)
Kostihara Hananoli. Ji- NaHaP,
B.
Hizashi
seichi (Wila Maplos (Loer
Rubrum Var ryonanthum) at
village
Koshihara)
N.HaP.
B. Mar. 1923

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.94)
S... . 1900
Union
Haehiman Jinja N.Ha
B. Nov. 1928
Hisatsu
oto-sugi (Two
Hachimn
maese Codars at Hi-
Shrine
tou Hachiman Shrine)
pro no Osugi
N.li.P.
B.
Guro
Goro Township.
(Giant Jamnose Codar
Hachiman
Masuda-gun
In Gero)
Shrine
onshoji no Osugi
N.H.P.
B. Apr. 1929
Hagiwara
Haziwara village.
Giant Japanese Cedar
village
Masuda-gun
Zenshoji (Tomple)
onkoji no Gohon Sugi
N.HP.
B. p. 1929
Nifugawn
Nifugawa village.
(Great Codar in Sun-
villago
Ono-un
∞ji (Temple)
Chujohime Seigon-zakura N.H.P.
B.
n
Akutami
Akutami Village.
(Charry Tree to which
Villago
Inaba-gun
Chujohimo cffured Frayers)
mdo Kokutun ji -to-cto
H.S.
H.S. Dac. 1929
Kolabunji
Takayann City
(Ruins of Tovec of Hila
(Tample)
olubunji (Tmplu)
mlayam Jinya-ato
H.S.
H.S.
Gifu
(Ruins of C ps in
Prufecturo
aka yama)
hinen Jinja no esugi
N.II.P.
B. Feb. 1930
Shinen
Shinon Village.
Giant Codar in Shinon
Shrino
Mugi-gun
hrino)
arui Ichirizuke
H.S.
H.S. 0ct. 1230
Tarui
Tarui Township.
ile Stone at Tarui)
Tonship
Fuw:-gun
dodani no Yamamoni- N.H.P.
B. Nov. 1930
Oyada
Oyada Village.
Jurin (Wild Maplo
village
Mugi-gun
st in Kede Valley)
gahara Koson jo
H.S.
HS. Mr. 1931
Sekigahara Sekdzahara Township.
abara Old Battlo Field)
Towmship
Fuwa-un
magawa Iayasu Saisho no Jinchi
Brat Battle Position of
teyasu Tolagawa)
 Iayasu Saigo no Jinchi
Bastle Postion of
Tokuwawn)
ri no Jinchi

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.92)
AR-231-CR-E-1
REASON
DATE
CLLSSI-
FOR
ADMINIS-
NAE
FICTION DEBIG.DESIG.
TRATOR
Diyotaldji Kyogokuke
H.S.
N.S. Mar. 1932 Tolaugonin
Kashiwabare Villag
Bosho (Tonba of Kyogoku
(Templo)
Saknta-gun
Fardly in Kiyotakoji
(To.mple)
antsuzaki Kogan
s.s.
S.s.
Feb. 1933
Kantsu
Kaatou Village.
(Lak Coast at aatsuzaki)
villago
Shiga-gun
Moiji Tunno Tsuchiyuna H.S.
H.S.
Nov. 1933
Tsuchiya
TsuchiyarnTown-
Anzaisho (E..poror Miji's
Towmship
ship. Koga-gun
Plaou of Sojourn in
Tsucliyaua)
Miji Tunno Rokujizo
HS.
HS.
Nov. 1933
Hay
Hayan Towmship.
Goshokijo (Enporor Muiji's
Township
Kuri:noto-gun
Restin? Placo in Rolaujizo)
Muiji Tunno Bussho Gyo- H.S.
HS.
Nov. 1934
Ennnin
Bussho Otsu City
kojo (Plao Visited by
(Tumple)
Emporor Meiji in Busuho)
Moiji Tunno Kusatsu n- H.S.
HS.
Kusatau
Kusatsu Tomship.
zaisho (Emperor Meiji's
To.mship
Kuriloto-gun
Placu of Sojourn in Fusatsu)
Emanin Tui-en
ss.
s.s.
Dec. 1934
Enrnin
Boasho, Otsu City
(Garden at Ennnin (Teiplu) H.S. R.S.
(Tcmple)
Kojoin Tei-en (Gardun
S.S.
ss.
Enojoji
at Kojoin (Tumplo)
H.S.
H&S.
(Tuplo)
Zenhoin Tei-on
S.S.
S.S.
(Gardon at Zonhoin (Te..pla) H.S.
N.S.
Joshinji Tui-un
S.s.
sas.
Johinji
Kinanoto Towmship.
(Gerdon at Joslhinji (Toplo)
(Temple)
Ikea-gun
Daitsuji Ganzankon oyobi S.S.
S.S.
Daitsuji
Nagalan-Towmshipi
Rantei Toi-en (Gardon of
(Txmple)
Sakata-gun
Ganzanken and Rantui in
Daitauji)(Tample)
Seiganji Tei-on
ss.
S.s.
Suiganji
Maibara Township.
(Garden at Saiganji (Tumpla)
(Tomple)
Santa-gun
Konomiya Jinja Slanusho S.S.
s.s.
Konaniya
Taga Villago,
Tei-en (Garden at Kono-
Shrine
Inugaii-gun
niya Shrine)
Taga Jinja Okushoin
s.s.
S.S. Junu 1935 Taga Shrino
Tui-an (Garden at Taga
Shrine)
Meiji Tamo Kinaloto
HS.
H.S. Nov. 1935 Joshinji
Kinonoto Township,
Ammaisho (Eaporor Moiji's
(Tuple)
Ika-gun
Plaoo of Sojourn in Kino-
moto)
Diji Tunno Yamgaso n- ..
H.S.
Enshoji
Takniya Township.
aisho (Emperor Moiji's
(Torple)
Inugand-gun
mase of Sojourn in
HS
HB.
Nagahamn
Magahana Townsl
Mijis
Tomship
Sakata-gun

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.90)
Tenno Ochiai Go- H.S.
.S. Nov. 1935
Ochias
ijo (Emperor Moi ji's
villago
ing Plaee in Ochini)
ji Tonno Told Gosho- H.S.
H.S.
Told
Toldi Tow
ijo (Eaperor Mui ji's
Tormship
Told-gun
ting la in Toki)
Meiji Tenno Takayama
H.S
H.S. Nov. 1936
Tokitsu
Tolditsu Tomms hipe
Boshokmijo (Emporor Meiji's
Tons hip
Told-gun
Resting Place in Takyann)
uido no Shidare mani N.H.P.
B. Dac. 1937
Tsukochi
Taukochi Towmshipe
(Geepinz Fir Troo in Suido)
Township
Ena-gun
Otozulkn Kafun fu Danji- H.S.
H.S. Dao. 1938
Izuni
Izuni Township.
rimaki Kofun (Otozuki Old
Township
Told-gun
Mound and Danjirimaki Old
Mound)
Sami no Maoto-sugi
N.H.P.
B.
Sai
Sani Township.
(Two Japnese Codars
Tormship
Kano-un
in Sami)
Aburashin 
H.S.
H.S. July 1940
Dayt, of
Oe Village.
atsu Shimeli
Home
Kaizu-gun
(Pine Troe Grove cn Phire
Affairs
dri Banko n cnochin)
iji Tonno Takoi
H.S.
H.S. Dac. 1941
Take nami
Takemni village,
oshokijo (Enporor Meiji's
villacu
Ena-gun
esting Plac in Takori)
bo Dani r) Kikimsuld N.H.P.
GM.
Noo
Neo Village.
Chryaant' mun-shaped
Viilago
Motosu-gun
sone in Neo Valloy)
aan Jinja no Hito- N.H.P.
B.
Oct. 1942
Is umi Townms hipp
ubatago Jiscichi
Told-gun
ild Olivo Treos (Chio
nthus Reiusus) Habi-
at Hakusan Shrine)
an Jinja no Hanc- N.H.P.
B. Nov. 1943
(Maples (er Rub-
Var Pycnanthum) at
an Shino)
no 0-ug1
N.H.P.
B. Aug. 1943
Nishi-shiraknwa
Saganese Cedor
Village, mno-
N.H.P. B. Mar. 19h4
Tara Villa
H.B. Dee. 19hh

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.94)
Nirayann Hhnsharo
H.S.
H.d Mar. 1922
(Old Jurnaco in Nirayamm)
village
Nishikdda Ichirizuka
H.S.
H.S.
Nishikida
(Mile Stono in Nishikida)
village
Miho no Matsubarm
S.S.
3.S.
Shinizu
Shimisu City
(Miho Pino Grove)
City
Jono-ik Tokyu Gyorui NohP.
z.
Ito Town-
Ito Townshi
Suisokuchi (Spaci al Fish
slip
Tagata-gun
Habitat in Jono Pond)
Yorozuno Fuatsu
N.H.P.
GM.
Kitayan
Kitayain vill
(Yorozuno Wind Tunnul)
villagy
Fuji-gun
Sonnkido Fukatau
IN.H.P.
GM.
Fujiokm
Fujioka Villa
(Kxaukado Wind Tunnel)
villago
Sunto-gun
Kariyado Geba-zalaura
N.H.F.
B.
Oct. 1922
Shirmito
Shiraito Villa
(Geba Chorry Trues in
villago
Fuji-n
Kariyado)
Totomi kubunji-:to
E3.
.Mar. 1923
Ivata
Iwata Towmship
(Ruina' o? Potoi okl-
Township
Iwata-gun
bunji (To:pl-)
Ryugeji no Sototsu
N.H.P.
B.
Dac. 1924
Ryugoji
Shinizu City
(Palm-lik. -lont (Cyoud)
(Tmplo)
in Ryuzoji (T plo)
Namanji no Sotetsu
N.H.P.
B.
Nannji
Yoshida-Villag
(Palm-like Plant (Cycad)
(Tomple)
Haibara-gin
in Nanji (Templə)
Inno-mr. Yogan Zuido
N.H.P.
G.M. Apr. 1927
Inna
Inno-Village.
(Lava Tunnel in Inno
villago
Sunto-gun
village)
Osezaki no Hakusin Jurin N.H.P. B. July 1932
Nishiura
Nishiura villa
(Forest of ak and Chinese
villagu
Tazata-gun
Bluck Pino in Osozaki)
Yuga no Na afuja
N.H.P.
B.2
Ikoda
Ikoda Villago
(Woeping Wistaria in Yuya)
Villago
Iwata-gun
Kuzumi Jinji no Okisu
N.HP.
B.
Feb. 1933
Ito Town-
Ito Township.
(Giant Cunphor Tree
ship
Tagataegun
in Kuzumi Shrino)
Azu Sawako Jinja no Oku- NoH.
B.
4ta:d
tand City
su (Giant Camphor True
City
in Asu Sawa le Shrine)
Kyu Shisuoka Goyotei
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1933
Shizuokm
Oite Townshi
(Former Laporial villa
City
Shisuoka Cit
in Shizuoka).
Moiji Tonno Okitau An-
H.S.
H. S.
Seikenji
saisho
mperor Meiji's
(Tame)

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.93)
ano Ami An-
H.S.
Holoj1
Laho oyobi Ryushi
(Temple)
peror Maiji's Place of
village!
ojourn and its Ruins in
Arai)
Yamanaka Joshi
H.S.
H.S. Juno 1934
Nishikdida
Nishildda vin
(Ruins of Yamina is Castlo)
village
Tagata-gun
Kisho no 0-mikanju
N.i..P.
B.
Private
Nishiura Village.
(Giant Mandarin Orango
Owmor
Tagatu-gun
Tree in Kisho)
Jishindo no Sakkon
N.I!.P.
G.M.
Rn
Ena Village,
(Earthquaks Fault)
villago
Tagata-gun
Mishina Jinja no Kin- N.H.P.
B.
May 1934
Mishina
Mishima City
nokusei (Goldon Fmgrant
Shrine
Olive at Mishinn Shrino)
Yawatano Hachhiingu,
N.H.P.
B. . 1934
Hachinncu
Tsushin Village.
Kurumiya Jinja Shaso
(Shrino)
Tagata-gun
(Bush Hachiin Slrino,
Kurtiya
Kurumiye Slrine in
Sirine
Yawutano)
Toishi no Midc no Ivy N.H.P.
GM. Dec. 1934
Chilarn
Chikun village.
(Cavern of Mida in Toishi)
villago,
Eno-gun
Tanna Danso
N.H.P.
G21. June 1935
Knnani
Kannami Villago.
(Geographical Fult in
Villago
Tagata-un
Tanna)
Dogashima Tonsodo
N.HoP.
G.M. . 1935
Nishina
Nishina Village,
(Tonso Cave on Doga-
Village
Brno-gun
shinn) (Island)
Meiji Tenno Shinnda An- HS.
H.S. Nov. 1935
Shinnda
Shinda Village.
zaisho (Emperor Moiji's
villago
Shida-gun
Place of Sojourn in Shinda)
Maiji Tenno Maisak Go- Hs.
HS.
Maisaka
Maisaka Towns hip.
shokeijo (Emparor Meiji's
Township
Hanna-gun
Resting Placo in Maisa ki)
Shibaya-ji. Tei-on
H.S.
.. Sept. 1936 Shibayaji
Maruko,
(Garden in Shibayaji
S.S.
3.9.
(Tample)
Shizuoka City
(Temple)
eikenji Tui-en
s.s.
s.s.
Soikonji
Okitsu Township
Garden in Seikenji
(Tample)
Ihara-gun
Temple)
niji Tei-on
ss.
s.s.
Rinsaiji
Oiwa, Shizuokn City
in Rinsaiji (Temple)
(Tamplo)
nji tai-on
ss.
8.8
Ryutanji
Itya ilng
 in Ryutanji (Tomple)
(Temple)
Inasa-gan
s.8.
Shirmito,
to Falla)
Kxuide
villages

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.91)
CLASBI-
FIGATION DESG.
Izu Suimn mizan
3.S.
3.8. Juno 1937
Mctsusald
(South-wosturn Coust
Towmsiip.
of Izu)
Chikaum, Nishim. Imshi
Mihana, Misaka, Minamisal
Tago Villagea
3ugiboko Be tsuno Mr
Supt. 1936
Shinokmsnsu Ville
koto Jinju no Olaisu
Kano-un
(Giant Japnoso Codar in
Sugiboko Butsuno Mikoto
Shrin)
Krizoji no Ngi
N.i.P.
B.
Dao. 1937
Atami City Atumi City
Aulo:lus) in Kizoji
(Tumple)
Shoon no Matsu
N..
B. Dec. 1938
Huclianu Kitaham villag.
(Pine Trou at Shoon)
Shrino
Haena-n
chiman Jinja no Isu- N.H.P.
B. Fob. 1941
Hachinn
nhi Villago.
nold (Unusual Troa (Dis-
Shrino
Kano-gun
tylium V.comosul) at
Hachiman Shrine)
Meiji Tunno Suizuok:
H.S.
S. Duc. 1941
Shizuok
Oito Township.
Anzaisho (E peror Meiji's
Profecturo Shizuoka City
Restin' Plaoe in Shizuck:)
Muiji Tnno Yui Gosho
H.S.
.
Private
Yui Township.
kuijo (Eaporor Muiji's
O.mer
Ilnra-un
Resting Place in Yui)
Meiji Tenno Mitsudani
1,3.
Shounji
Mishina City
Shinden Goshokeijo (Enporor
(Tampla)
loiji's Restin: Place in
Mitaudani Shindon)
Bhirah mra Fshokure- N.H. G. . 1943
Not given
Shiraha Villago.
 Sanchi (Wind Eroded
Hibara-sun
Stoncs in Shirahe Villago.)
Litsudake Jeii
H3.
H.3. Mar. 1944
Ihiru villago.
(Ruins of Mitsudaio Castla)
Incan-gun
Yuzyokau-iko
N.H.P.
GM. Nov. 1944
n
Oniyc, Fujimiya
(Yugyoku Pond)
City
Meiji Tonno Miahirn An- H.
H.S.
Konakjinn Tamship.
isho-ato (Ruins of Rapuror
Mishina City
deiji's Placo of so-
journ in Mishin)
Lsiji Tono Nakane-
N.S.
H.S.
Nalano Township.
chi Goshoksijo-ato
Ha:nna-gun
(Ruins of Eaperor Mui ji's
Resting Plaoa in Nalano
Township)
Ikonahime-no=mikoto
Noh.P.
B..
Shirahma Towmship.
Jinja no Aogiri no Ji-
Xno=un
ueichi (wild Sultan's
Parasol Tros Habitat in
Ikpmahine mo-aikoto Shrine)

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.91)
n Kokabunji-ato
H.S.
H.S. Oot. 1922
Yamt
mne of Mikawe Kokai-
villugo
Ho-un
buaji (Tample)
Mikawa Kokabunji-ato
H.S.
H3.
(Ruins of Mikawa Koku-
banji (Nunnory)
Khwauro Hananoki Jisci- N.H.P.
B.
Toyonu
Toyone Villago.
chi (Wild Maplos (Acor
villago
Kitashidera-un
Rubrum Var Pycnantlua)
Habitat in Kwaure)
Mano Toki Yoshi
..
li.S. M. 1922
Sugiyn
Sugiyame Village.
Ruins of Chinos Kiln
village
Ataumi-gun
in Mano)
akani Hongoso Jisuichi N..F.
B. pr. 1927
(Unusunl Graaa (Sciaphila
Japonioa) Habitat in
aami)
Kisogcwa-zutusmi
S.S.
3.8. . 1927
Aichi
Duaai, Kitagata
(Scikurc) (Bank of Rivor
N.H.P. B.
Prefocturo
villages, Miyata,
Kiso)(Chorty Treea)
i Tomship.
Haguri-gum.
Ich:inamiya City
Konki-yam
H.S.
H.S. Oct. 1927
Kankd
Kamki Towmahip.
(Kanki Hill)
Township
Higashi-knsugai-zun
Futago Kofun
HS.
H.S.
Sakurai
Sakrai Villago.
(Futago Old Mound)
villaco
4ai-Bun
Hinwkogawa Kofun
H.S.
H.S.
(Himakogawn Old Mound)
Kitano Haiji-to
H.S.
H.S. Dec. 1929
Yatagi
Yahagi Townalip.
(Ruins of Forer Tumplo
Township
4oni-cun
in Kitano)
Oyam Hiji-ato
L.S.
Shinoolm
Shinoola villaga.
(Ruins of For..or Tomplo
villago
Higashi-kasugai-gu
in Oy)
Mnigi Haiji-ato
H.S.
S.
Sanago
Samgo Village.
(Ruin of Farur Tomple
villago
Nishikano-gun
in Maigi)
Nagashino Jushi
H.S.
HS.
Namshino
Nagashino Villago.
(Ruina of Nagashino Castlo)
village
Minani-shidara-gun
Fiyod no Okusu
N.H.P
B.
Gangari
Gangori Towmship.
Giant Camphor Trou in
To:mship
Hoi-gun
yodn)
Ya Jin Sso N.H.P.
B. L. 1930
Yaotoni
(Bush in Yotani Shrine)
3hrine
Samgayann no Kyujo
N.H.P.
G. Fab. 2931
Sanago
Sanage Village.
akogan (Round-Granito
villaBo
Nishikno-gun
in Saago Hill)
H.S.
H.S. May 1931
Nazoya City
a mll Old Mound)
Magoya dity

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.89)
CLS31-
FIC TION DESIO.
Horaiji-san
s.s.
3.S. July 1931, Horafja
(Haraiji Hill)
N.H.r.
GM.
(Taple)
Shinxislr. no Oshii
N.H.P.
B. Apr. 1932
Shinmish
(Giant Pansani: Troe
(Shrine)
in Shinpisin (Shrin)
), K.
B. July 1932
N.: y City Minani-do
Township. Nishi
(Tomr-y: Troe at i; ya
C:stle)
Nagoya City
. Duc.13.
: y City
(iof ar)
 villao
(rine s t.)
zu-un
diji T N.y. D i H.
I.S. Doc. 1933
Na
Shinojay: Towns
honui (Enporor Meijit
City
Naim-lal. Nagoya
Forer Heallu:rtors in
N)
Meiji Tunno Hntchona-
H.S.
II.S.
4tsuta-hizashi
Toums hip. Mind
vate Onode  jo (Dor
Nagoya City
Moijils Foczr Fil
Hoadgunrts in .nw:to)
Mei ji Tor no Hra Dio H.S.
H.S.
Handa City Hhnda City
honei oy s!: (Epror
Moiji s Fermor d
quarters and its Ruins
in Hunda)
Meiji Tunno Nagaoyan
HS.
Talatoyo
Taketoya Tom
Onodacnij) (mperor iji's
Towns hip
Chita-gun
Former Fiold Leadquartors
on Nagno Mounta in)
Adara no Shioliit:d
S.S.
3.s. Juno 1934
Yanayoshida Yua nyoshida'vi
(Sevon Falls at Adura
N.H.P.
GM.
Yana-gun
(Teuplo)
Nyun oyobi Nyan-kyo N.H.P.
GM.
Miva
Miwa Villagp.
(Milky Juartz and Milly S.3.
Villago
Xita-shidar
Qunrts Vallay)
Unoyam U Ha shokuchi
B. Juno 1934
Kosuzuya
Koausuya
(Cormorant Nosting roa
villa
Chita-30m
in Unoyain)
Uto Jinja no Shaso
N.H.P.
B.
Uto Shrino
(Umsual Bush at Uto
Shrima)
Hogan no Matou
N.H.P.
B.
(ine Srees at Hogan)

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.92)
Osogawa
H.S.
H.S. May 1934
Banda City
jo (Eaperor Moiji's
Siuld Hadquarters
Osogawa)
iji Tonno Jukuda An- H.S.
H.S. May 1934
Handa City
Dnsald Towshms
aisho (Emperor Moiji's
Handa City
lace of Sojourn in Fukud)
iji Tunno Shimozu Go H.S.
H.S. Mar. 1935
Inazava
Imzava village.
hokoijo (Eapuror Muiji's
villago
Nakajina-gun
Resting Flaco in Shinozu)
oiji Tonno Tono Gosho- HS.
HS.
Toyoaki
Toyoald village,
mijo (Emporor Miji's
villago
Lichi-gun
Restin: Placo in Toano)
oiji Temo Yagoto Ono- H.S.
H.S.
Tunpaka-
Tonpakal villago,
chijo (Emporor Meiji's
villago
Lichi-gun
Forer Fiold Hoadqunrtors
in Yagoto)
Amzaki Gunjibotaru
N.H.P.
Z. Dac. 1935
Olazald
Oknzald City
Hasseichi (Gunji Fire-
Ci.ty
fly (Lucicia Cruciata)
Habitat in Chnzaki)
Ushikubo no 0 mutht
N.H.P.
B. Dac. 1935
Kunno
Ushikubo Towns hip.
(Giant Urusral Treo
Shrine
Hoi-gun
(Aphananth s) in
Ushikubo)
Miji Tunno Toyohashi
H.S.
H.S. July 1936
Goshinji
Sukiya Tomship,
maisho ( poror Mai ji's
(Temple)
Toyohashi City
Place of Sojourn in To-
yobashi)
biji Tonno Shinizu Go- H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1936
Privato
Shinizu Towmship.
holmijo (Emperor Meiji's
Omor
Higashi-ku.
stiny Place in Shinizu)
Nazcya City
oiji Tunno Takatoyo Go- H.S.
HS.
Tako toyo
Takotoyo Township.
hokijo (Emporor Msiji's
Towmship
Chita-gun
tin∞ in Taketoyo)
aji Tonno Kuroda Go- H.3.
H.S.
Kisogawa
Kisogawa Township.
sijo (Imporor Maiji's
Towmship
Haguri-gun
Ins Plane in Kuroda)
Tanno Maogasu Go- H.S.
H.S.
Iyatoni
Iyataui Towns hip.
Ajo (Emperor Meiji's
Tomship
ne-Ccun
n Plae in Mnegasu)
Bshl-shijimi H.S.
A.S.
Jushiyana
Jushiynin Villo
Moiji's
villago
Ana-gun
H.B. Dao. 1996

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.91)
H.B. . Das. 1937
Olohasaur Kosenjo Den- H.S.
setsuchi fu Sonjin-sukm
(Okahazan, Belisvod to
ba old Buttlo Fiold and
Warrior's Burial Mound)
Tonit. Ial.irizuka
HS.
liS.
Okos hi
Tomship
(Tanita Milo Stono)
Ohira Icirizuk
s.
H.S.
Olazald
City
(Ohima Mile Stone)
Osaruzuk: no Matsu
N.H.P.
B.
Okada
Olada S0
Tomship
Chite
(Pine Trues on Osaru
Mound)
Yahas:ur Jinja no
N.H.P.
B. May 1938.: Yainshira
Kulizo vil
Shrine
ai-sun
Okusu (Giant Camphor
Trou at Yabushira Shrinu)
B. . 1938
Fujinitsu
Pujiata
Kozutsui Nishi-iix-no N.H.P.
viilago
Aoni-gum
Kalditsubata Gunru ku
(Iris in Kozutswi
Nishi-ik (Pond)
Shinold villag
Maiji Tenno Shimohara
H.3.
H.S. Deo. 1938 . Shinold
villago
Shindon Goshokoijo (Eaporor
Meiji's Rosting Place in
Shinohare S.inder)
Otakn Jshi fu Maruno
HS.
H.S.
Otaka
Otaln Township
Tamship
Chita-un
Toride-ato, Nuslizu Turi-
da-ato (Ruins of Otika
Castlo. Marune Fort and
Washizu Fort)
Ushikubo no Nazi
N.H.P.
B.
Kurno
Ushikubo To
Shrine
Hoi-gan
(Evergroon Shrubs (Ruscus
Aoulealus) in Ushikubo)
Taushim no Oulu
N.H.P.
B.
Ta ishinn
Tsus hir Towmel
To.mahip
Δa-un
(Giant Unusual True
(phanantlω sporc) in
Tsushirr)
Nagakarto Kosunjo fu
H.S.-. H.S. Sopt. 1939 Naakate
village
Okntayam, Kubizuka. Iro-
ganoyann (Nagakato, Old
Battlo Field, Flag Mound,
Hand Burial Mound, Iro-
gam Hill)
Olauruwa Enisuin
H.S.
H.S. June 1941 Naya City
(Olauruwa Shell Mound)
Z. Mr. 1941

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.91)
no Omshiwa.
N.H.P.
B. Mar. 1944
Not given.
Gangorl
Hod-un
ak in Jounji
20)
2-chu Chaya Town
no Jinja no ro- N.h.P.
B.
Juno 1944
ship. Nishi-k
monochi (Hola ak Troe
Nagoya City
Wex Rotunda Thunb) in
kono Shrine)
Aonhi villceu.
gimoto no Teilansugi
N.H.P.
B.
Hiyas hi-kano-cun
Sikan Japnese Codar
Suginoto)
iji Tonno Say An-
H.S.
11.8. Nov. 1944
Saya Villago.
sho-nto oyobi Kincniki
uins of Enperor !siji's
nce. of Sojourn and
ructuro)
Gyoyu Tow ship.
oya no Matsuniild
N..P.
B.
Hoi-gun
ondside Fine Trous
Gyoya)
Fucim Township,
y Kn
HS.
H.S. Mar. 1921 Fuchu
Toms hip
Ay n-un
Oak old Mound)
H.S. Mar. 1922
Matausaka
Matsusake Tono-
oori Norinagn Kyutain H.S.
City
Towns lip,Matsu
akushi (For.wr House
an kn Sainna Towms
Norinaga Motoori and
ship
ins of his House)
Kawawa villago.
Kokaubunji-ato
I.S.
II.S. Ot. 1922 
Kawage-n
ing of Iso Kskubunji
mplo)
ashi-alaragawa Inu- N.H..
B.
Kaizo
izo villago.
villago
Mio-sun
hi Jissiahi (Wild
ar (Pirus Jneusis)
vinc. Plaoo at Higasili-
agawa)
A-akiregawa Aim- N.H.P.
Jiapichi (wild Pear
Sinousia) Habitat.
H.S.
H.. Mar. 1923 Naknso
villago

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.91)
Akame no Kyokoks
s.3.
3.3. 0ot. 1925
(Valloy in Akam)
Fudoin Mukaderan Gunraku N.H.P.
B. pr. 1927 s
(Stand of Mukado Orohids
villagu
in Fudoin (Tomple)
Onigusliro Dnchisui
N.1HP.
B.
Junc 1928
Hobaru
Hobaxa
Sida Gunraku (Grogarious
villago
Watai-gun
Tropical Fern Habitat in
Qnigashiro)
Hosoya Danchisei Shida N.h.P.
B.
Gunraku (Gre arious
Tropicil Fom Habitat
in Hya)
Kyu Sukodo
.
H.S. Nov. 1930 Uano City
Ueno City
(For.or Sukodo School)
Ay:un-gun
Talarazuln Kofun
HS.
H.S. pr. 1932
Hanaoka
Hamoka To
(Tilnrczuka Old Mound)
Tomship
Hannan-an
Takelkura Jinja no Muju Nod.P.
B.
July 1932
Talakar:
Nii-gun.
kaya (Saoc) Torrye
Shrino
Troe at Takakura Shrine)
Kageji no Muju Kaya
N.H.P.
B.
Rhgoji
(Suooth Tra Te
(Tuple)
at Kazoji (Tumplo)
Hai Hodaraji-r:chi no
H.S.
HS.
Fob. 1933 Nii Village
Isind (Stono in Ruins of
Hodaraji-Tomslip)
Muiji Tunno Toba Anzai- H.S.
ES.
Nov. 1933 Joanji
Toba Townshi
aha (Emperor Muiji's
(Tomple)
Shim-gun
Plaw of Sojourn in Toba)
Maiji Tenno Isslhindon
H.S.
HS.
Senshuji
Isshindon
Anzaisho (peror Meiji's
(Tanplo)
Khwago-gn
Plaoe of Sojourn in
Isshinden)
Namra Ichirizuk
H.S.
ES. Juno 1934
ya
Xayaum
(Nomura Mile 3tone)
Tanship
Shozenji no Kinryu-
...
B.
Shogenji
Dwan Cia
ankure (Kinryu Churry
(Tuplo)
Trees in Shogənji (Temple)
Mulamoto no Qml
N.H.P.
B.
Juno 1934
Mularnoto
village
(Giant Unsual Trod
G

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.92)
i Morinaga Halm
H,S.
H.S. Sopt. 1936 
iji) fu Motoori
City
ntoi Halka (Tab of
inayn Motoori (Jukaiji)
and Toub of Shuntoi Motcori)
Xiriyan Joshi
H.S.
HS.
Thld
Takd village
(Ruins of Kiriya.n Castle)
village
Ichishi-gan
Kitabataloshi Yakata-uto S.S.
ss.
Kitabatake
oyobi Tui-on (Ruins of
HS.
H.S.
Shrine
Mansion of Kitabatake
Faily and its Gardun)
Sainaniya-ura Huna-
N.HP.
B.
Do. 1936
Sainoiya
Sainomiya vill
shobu Gunr ku (Grugu-
village
Tald-gun
rious Swet Flg Habitat
in Sainoniya Villago)
Kuki Jinja Juso
N.HoP.
B.
pr. 1937 Kuld
kld village.
(Bushes at Kuld Shrino)
Shrino
Kitauro-un
nounizu Shotaku Sho- N..P.
B.
Iino
IIno Villago.
Lubutsu Gunraki (Sw..p
viliage
kawago-gun
Plants in Knnonze)
Meiji Teono Jeki n-
IH.S.
HS.
Doc. 1937
Jizo-in
Seld Township.
aisho (Emooijia
(Tumple)
Suzula-gun
Place of s journ in Suld)
Meiji Tunno Kurmna An- H.S.
H.S.
Honto-in
Lnisshildji Town-
Zaisho (Eperor Muiji's
(Tomple)
ship, Kuwan City
Pla∞ of Scjourn in Kuwana)
Meiji T.mno Kanoo Lnzai- H.S.
HS.
Sunsluji
Kanbo Township.
Sho (Enporor Moi ji's Placo
Branch
Kawage-gun
of Sojourn in Kanbe)
Tumple
Meiji Tunno Mulaunoto
IH.S.
HS.
Mukaunoto
Mukarnoto village,
Anzaisho (Enparor Mui ji's
village
Khwnge-run
Place of Sojourn in Muku-
noto)
Meiji Tenno Nakaya.n.
H.S.
HS.
Kurin
Durine village,
Goshokeijo (Enperor Meiji's
villago
kawage-gun
Rosting Place in Naky)
iji Torno Yawata Go- H.S.
H.S.
Not given
Yawnto Tomship.
aijo (Emperor Mei ji's
Tou City
ting Place in Yawata)
Ji Tenno Tau Anaai- H.S.
H.S. July 1942. nshoin
Otobe Tsu City
(Emporor Meiji's
(Taxmple)
of Sojourn in Tau)
N.H.R.
B.
Isoji
ee at Mitak)
villago
Halm
H.S. Nov. 1944
Tnikmn)

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.92)
R-231-Ca-2-1
RELSON
DATE
CL:SSI-
FOR
OF
ADMINIS-
NME
FIC TION DESIG.
DESIG.
TRATOR
Mikrno-urc Utsukushi-
N.H.P.
B.
Mar. 1921 Miko
Milamo Villa
Latau Jisuichi (Hild
villa
Koga-gun
Utsukushi Pine Habitat
in Mikio Village)
Minani-hancsaw: no
N.H.P.
B.
Higashi-
Higashi-oshitat
Iunolt (Muplos (Acur
oshitato
Villago, Echi-
Rubru. Var Pyen..ntlu.1)
villao
at Linani-hanasawa)
Kita-b acs wa no Hana- Noll.P.
3
nokd (Maples (Acor Rubrun
Var Pycnantlen) in Kita-
h:nasaw:)
Toju Shoin-to
HS.
H.S.
Mar. 1922 oyald
Aoyald villago,
(Ruins of Toju's Study)
villago
Tinshin-
Is iya.ndera Kuikiseld Noh.P.
GM.
Isliyan-
Ishiyaabe Tome
(Wollstonite Rock at
dora
ship. Otau Ciy
Ishiyn Te..ple)
(Tomplo)
Nishioji-ura id.ri-
NoHor.
B.
Oct. 1922
Nishioji
Nishioji Villago.
naki Kay. (isted T rreya
village
Gou-un
Treu in Fis ipji Vill )
Genjibot.ru Hassuic.li
N.H.P.
2. è Doc. 1938
Moriy
Moriyaa Towmship
(Luciol: Cru.ci.ta)
Tomship
Yasu-gun. Mononobu
(Gnji Fire-fly sreodins
Munonobe
Village. Kurinoto
Placu)
village
gun
Shikire no Miya-ato
H.S.
H.S.
Oct. 1940
Shiga
Kunoi. Village
(Ruins of Shik.r: no Miya
Profecture
Koga-un
(Slirine)
Hai Shob daiji Sukitaho- HS.
HS.
Jπino
Iwano Village.
to oyobi Suibutsu (Stone
Villago
Koga-gun
Taho Tover nd Stone Bud-
dhe in Foraur Shobodaiji)
(Tu.plc)
Azuchi Joshi
H.S.
HS.
Sluga
izuchi. villege,
(Ruins of Azucii Custlo)
Profocture. Ganou-gun. Noto
gawa Villago.
Kanzakd un
Ryotokuji no Ohatsuld- N.H.P.
B.
Doc. 1929 1yotolji
Sanagai villago
icho (Ohatsukd Ginko Tree
(ple)
Salata-gun
at Ryotoluji (Teuple)
Sauegai no Fudan-
N.lH.P.
B.
Fub. 1930 0
Sapzai. village,
zakura (Fudan Cherry Troo
Shrine
Saka ta-gun
in Saegai)
Chikubujin (Chikubu
S.S.
s.s.
July 1930 Shiga
Chihibu yal
Island in Laka Biwa)
H.S.
H.S.
Profadture Higashi-asai-
tabataka Tonoyuld
H.S.
HS.
Nov. 1930
Knshiwabsa. Kashiwabare
Halm (Taib of Taloyuld
villago
village. Sak
tabatale)
gun
mákakadni Honshaa- N.H.P.
B. Mar. 1931
Kaiknkn
Gu-sei (Ahododen-
village
Habitat in Enikmkme)

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.92)
AR-231-CR-E-1
REASON
DATE
CLLSSI-
FOR
ADMINIS-
FICTION DEBIG.DESIG.
TRATOR
Diyotaldji Kyogokuk
H.S.
N.S.
Mar. 1932 Tolugonin
Kashiwabara Villng
Bosho (Tonba of Kyogoku
(Templo)
Sainta-gun
Fadly in Kiyotako ji
(To..ple)
antsuzaki Kogan
s.s.
S.S. Fab. 1933
Kantsu
Kaatau Village.
(Laka Coast at aatsuzaki)
Villago
Shiga-gun
Moiji Tonno Tsuchiyuna H.S.
H.S.
Nov. 1933
Tsuchiya
TsuchiyannTown-
Anzaisho (E.poror Muiji's
Towmship
ship. Koga-gun
Plaou of Sojourn in
Taucliyaua)
Miji Tunno Rokujizo
HS.
H.S.
Nov. 1933
Hayar
Hayan Towmship.
Goshokijo (Enporor Muiji's
Township
Kuri:noto-gun
Restin? Placo in Rolaujizo)
Muiji Tunno Bussho Gyo- H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1934
Ennnin
Bussho Otsu City
kojo (Plęo Visited by
(Tumple)
Emporor Meiji in Bussho)
Moiji Tunno Kusatsu n- H.S.
HS.
Kusatsu
Kusatsu Tomship.
zaisho (Emperor Meiji's
To.mship
Kuriloto-gun
Placu of Sojourn in Lusatau)
Enanin Tui-en
ss.
s.s.
Dec. 1934
Enrnin
Boasho, Otsu City
(Garden t Ennnin (Teiplu) H.S. RS.
(Tmple)
Kojoin Tei-en (Gardun
S.S.
ss.
Enojoji
at Kojoin (Tumplo)
H.S.
HS.
(Tuple)
Zenhoin Tei-on
S.S.
S.s.
(Garden at Zonhoin (Te..pla) H.S. N.S.
Joshinji Tui-un
S.s.
s.s.
Joahinji
Kinanoto Towmship.
(Gardon at Joslhinji (Toplo)
(Teuple)
Ika-gun
Daitsuji Ganzankon oyobi S.S.
s.s.
Daitsuji
Nagalan-Tomshipi
Rantei Toi-en (Gardon of
(Tample)
Sakata-gun
Ganzanken and Rantui in
Daitsuji)(Tample)
Seiganji Tei-on
ss.
S.S.
Suiganji
Maibara Township.
(Garden at Saiganji (Tumpla)
(Tomple)
Santa-cun
Konomiya Jinja Slaausho S.S.
s.s.
Konaniya
Taga Village,
Tei-en (Garden at Kono-
Shrine
Inugaii-gun
niya Shring)
Taga Jinja Okushoin
s.s.
S.s. Junu 1935 Taga Shrino
Tui-an (Garden at Taga
Shrin)
Meiji Tamo Kinaloto
HS.
H.S. Nov. 1935 Joshinji
Kinonoto Township,
Ammaisho (Eaporor Moiji's
(Tuple)
Ika-gun
Placo of Sojourn in Kino-
moto)
Siji Tonno Yamgase An- .
H.S.
Enshoji
Takmmiya Township.
isho (Emperor Maiji's
(Torple)
Inugani-gun
nase of Sojourn in
dya)
B.S
HS.
Nagahamn
Magahana Towns
Moiji's
Tomship
Sakata-gun

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.92)
AR-231-CR-B-1
REASON
CLASSI-
NAME
FICATION DESIG.DESII
Maiji Tanno Musc an-
HS.
is.
Nov. 1935
Kosaiji
Musa villa
zaisho (mporor Meiji's
(Tuple)
Gaou-gun
Place of Sojourn in Musa)
Meiji Tenno Toriizave
H.S.
H.S.
otsu city
Ishiyana Tori
Goshokaije (Eupuror Muiji's
Tormship. Otsu
Rustin; Pl.ce in T.riijawu)
Meiji Tunno Nigas.w
H.S.
I.S.
Fuludaji
Hoshoji Villago
Gos. koijo (Eiperor Mui jits
(Tumplo)
Sakata-gun
Rustiny Placu in Hagasawa)
Auiji Tolho Echign
H.S.
H.S.
Echigavm
Echi awa To:mshi
Gosholmi jo (Eperor Mel ji's
To:mship
Echi-gun
Rostin: Flaco in Echijawe)
Miji Tona Aitatc.iya H.S.
H.S.
Aschi
Asahi Village,
Gshohij (Eporor Moiji's
village
ICzald-gun
Rosting Flaca in Kita-
nchiyi)
Moiji Tno Nkmnogo
Ii.S.
I!.S.
Mysaji
Yozo village.
Gosihokei)(E peror iiji:s
(Te..ple)
Ike-gun
Rosting Pt.ce jn Ni: n) o)
Kyu Shurinji Tui-n
SS.
S.S. Doc. 1935 .Kosuiji
Kuchiki-Village.
(Garden ! Fori
(Tc..ple)
Takashir-gun
(Temple)
Meiji Tonno Torii.oto
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1936 Toriinoto
Toriinoto Villago
Goshokeijo (peror Mei ji's
Village
Sckata-gun
Restin; Place in Torii oto)
Meiji Turno Surilmri
H.S.
H.S.
Gos!okaij) (Emperor Muiji's
Rostin; place in Surihari)
Koteni Josi.i
H.S.
11.S. pr. 1927 Kotani
Kotani Village,
(Ruins of Kotni Castle)
Villago
Higashi-asai-gun
Meiji Teno Bub. Josho- H.S.
HS.
July 1937
0!o
Okigo village.
keijo (Eroror M. iji's
Sakta-un
Restin Place in Banba)
Meiji Tunno Otsu Botsuin H.S.
HS.
4u3. 1938
Otaniha
Sasaya Toirslip.
Anzaisho Eperor Meiji's
Honganji
Otsu City
Placo of  jurn Tplo
Branch
in Otsu)
Temple
Sufukuji-cto (Ruins
H.S.
H.S.
Juno 1941
Otsu City
Sagasato Tomship
of Sufukuji (Te.ple)
Otsu City
Koyann Kufun
HS.
H.S. .Dac. 1941
Yasu
Yasu Tomship.
(Koyana Old Mound)
Township
Yasu-un
Maruyana Kofun
H.S.
H.S.
(Maruyain Old Mound)
Sanegai Kyokoku
s.S.
S.S.
Sniga
Sa.egai Village
(Sanegai Valloy)
Prefecture
Sakata-gun
Hataruld Sanroka no
N..P.
GM。
Sept. 1942 Nishioji
Nishioji Valloy
Sesshokau Hens. itsu Chitai
valley
Gaou-gun
(Guological Ferntion at
foot of Mt. Wataruld)

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.94)
ako no Byobu-iwn
N.H.P.
GM.
Lu3. 1943 Not ivon
Daikake villogo
Iding Screen Rock
Ganou-gun
imk)
iji Tenno Moriyaa
Ii.S.
IH.S. Supt. 1943
Moriyan Township,
oshokaijo (Eiporor Mei ji's
Yasu-zun
Restin plaoo in Mriyain)
Nagaoka Gunjibotaru Hs- N.H.P.
Mar. 1944
Higashi-karoda
eichi (Lucila Cruciata)
Village, Sakata-gw
Genji Fire-fly Habitat
at Nagaokn)
Oldnaga Guujibotaru Has- N.H.P.
B.
Okinaga village.
seichi (Luciola Cruciato)
Sakata-gun
Genji Fire-fly Habitat
in Ökinaa)
Taruni-saio Tonu-ato
HS.
H.S. Juno 1944
Ono Village,
(Ruins of Taruni-suio
Koga-gun
Tongu Shrine)
Kansak: Magcibutsu
H.S.
H.S.
Konbi Villago.
(Magai Buddha in Kensak)
Kurinoto-gun
Bessho Koshikozo
N.H.P.
GM.ov.1944
Minani-hitosa
(Koshikozo Rocks in
Village, Ganou-
Bossho)
gun
YOTO
Hakoishi Ha.n Ibutsu
H.S.
li.S.
Mar. 1921 Minato
Minato Village,
Hoganchi (Run ins of
Village
Kunno-gun
Rakoisli Coast)
Saiji-ato
H.S.
H.S.
Kyoto City
Karahashi kadowald.
(Ruina of Saiji (Temple)
mnchi, Krahashi
Kawakubo-naoli.
Shinokyo-ku.
Kyoto City
Choshiyana Kufun
H.S.
H.S. Mar. 1922 Tsunano
Tsunano Tomship.
(Choshiyana Old Mund)
Tomship
Takeno-n
Tenno no Mori Kofun
H.S.
H.S.
Kyoto City
Goryozuka no koshi-
(Tonno no Mori Old Mound)
mchi. Ukyo-ku,
Kyoto City
Jinsai Thka (Kogido) H.S.
HS:
Hizashi-horikawa-
narabini Shako (Ruins
dori. Knikyo-ka,
Jinsai Ito's House
Kyoto City.
gido) and Library)
anyo Shosai (San- H.S.
H.S.
Privato
Higashi-sanbongi-
nei-sho) (Stud
Omer
Minami-anchi
of Sanyo Rai) (San-
mi-sho)
Amaro Kyutala H.S.
HS.
Kyoto
Fukakasayabuno-
House of Azun-
Prufecture
uchi-nchd, Pushii-
Ju. Kyoto City
H.S.
H.S. Mar. 1922 Byodoin
Uji Tomahipo
An (TempleB8.
8.8.
(Temple)

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.91)
Osava no Ilu fu Nakoso S.S.
no Tald-ato (Osawa Pond
and Pormer Nakoso Falls)
 no Hashidato
s.s.
S.S.
yoto
(Pine-covored Sand Bar)
Profecturo
Hioano-ura Tosoiseld N.H.P.
GM.
Hiedano
sho (Minoral (Cordiurito
village
Psuudanorph) in Hiodano
Village)
Shinxizan Kafun
H.S.
H.S. Mar. 1923
Takeno
(Shimwizan Old Mound)
village
Nanzonin Toi-on
H.S.
HS.
Nanzenin
(Gorden at Nanzenin)
S.s.
3.3.
(T)
(Tumple)
Xyoto Gst
Saihoji Tei-on
H.S.
H.S.
Baihoji
Matsuo
(Garden at Sailoji (Tu pls) S.S. S.S.
(Tumple)
achi.
Kyoto Cit
Tunryuji Tin
Ii.S.
H.S.
Tunryuji
Saga-ton
(Gardon at Tunryu:i)
S.S.
S.s.
(Tumple)
Susuldn
(Tamplo)
Ukyo-ka.
Deitokuji Hojo Tui-un
H.S.
H.S.
Dec. 1923
Daitokauji
Murasakino
(Garden at Daitokuji
ss.
S.S.
(Txmplo)
jinchi.
Vicarage)
a. Dyoto
Shinjuan Tui-on
H.S.
H.S.
Shinjuan
(Garden at Shinjuan)
S.s.
S.s.
(Tamplo)
(Tumple)
Daisenin Shoin Tui-en
H.S.
H.S.
Daitokuji
(Garden at Daisunin)
S.S.
ss.
(Ta.ple)
Kohoan Tat-on
H.S.
HS.
Mar. 1923
Daitokji
(Garden at Kohoan (Templo) SS.
ss.
(Tumple)
Ryuanji Hojo Tei-en
H.S.
H.S.
Ryuanji
Ryuanji Go
(Garden at Ryuanji)
S.s.
S.S:
(Ta.pla)
shi
Onuro (Sa kura)
8.9.
ss.
Ninnaji
(Cherry Tree in aturo)
(Tample)
Onimunagi-dor Hansho- N.H.P.
B.
kuchi (Purrin (Seabird)
ueelas)

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.91)
ga no Olawu
Oot. 1926 Yamata
Camphor Troe
Township
hinnoji (Temple)
san (árashiyana)
HS.
H.S.
Kyoto
Myo-ka
(Seenic Gorgo)
ss.
s.s.
Profecturo
Zyoto City
Min. of
Agriculturo
Daigoji Sanboin Tci-on H.S.
H.S.
Jun 1926
Daigoji
Daizo Higashi-oja
(Garden at Daizoji San- S.S.
S.S.
(Tomple)
boin)
Kyoto-City
Kodaiji Tei-on
IH.S.
H.S.
Kod=iji
Shinok ware-achi-
(Gardon at Kodaiji)
Ss.
ss.
(Tnplo)
dori, Higashiyamm.
ku. Kyoto City
Shindoichi Suisishoku- N.h.P.
B.
Kyoto City
Shinokno Shindo-
butou Gunraku (¿quatic
iohi-mohi,
Kamikyoa.
Plants at Srindoichi)
Kyoto-City
Ishikawa Jozan Hhka
H.S.
HS. Jun: 1928 Kyoto City
Ichijoji-mntsu-
(Tamb of J zan Ishik wa)
bara-nchi.
Sakyo-ki.
Kydto City
Tanba Kokuhunji-sto fu HS.
H.S. Fob. 1928 Chitoso
Chitosc-Vilaago.
Haghiaar Jinje ato (Huins
villago
Mina.i-kuwata-gun
of Tanba Kohubunji (Tuuplo)
and Hachni un Shrino)
Shisendo
HS.
H.S. Mar. 1928 Kyoto City
Iciijoji-mdo-
(Shisondo (Mansion)
guchi-nchi,
Kotani-nchi.
Matsubara-nchi.
Sakyo a. Kyoto
Goura Danso
N.H.P.
GM. Dac. 1929 Go Villago
Go Villago.
Guological foult in
Tckono-gun
to villcgo)
HS.
H.S.: July 1930 yoto City
Takananino Kyudoi-
nachi, Kn likyo-km.
Gunrding the
prial Palaoo of Kyoto)
Kyoto City
soyam Kfun
H.S.
H.S.
Dwakmi
Kumakai Villago.
ugoyam Old Mound)
villago
Yosa-gun
HS.. HS.
Eya-mohi., Haya Toumship.
ríyama Old Mound)
Kmaki
Kwaimi Villago.
villago
Yosa-
H.. Oot. 1930
Puáhu
villago
H.B. Fob. 1931

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.91)
an Bhoin Tui-on
3B
(Gamion at Tolciisan)
H.S.
(Tasplo)
Ryounin Tei-on
3.9.
8.3.
(Garden at Ryounin)
H.B.
HS.
(Tumple)
Taizo-in Tui-on
s.s.
ss.
Tuizoin
(Gardun at Thizoin)
HS.
IH.S.
(Tumple)
(Tumplo)
Koishunin Tui-on
S.s.
S.s.
Koishunin
(Gardon at Lishunin)
(Tuplo)
(Tuplo)
Maruyain Koun
S.S.
S.S.
Oot. 1931 Kyoto City
(Mruya. Park)
Iwakura Panani Yusci
HS.
H.S.
Mar. 1932
Iunkara
Kyutaku. (For..or House of
villago
Tonani Iva ara)
Kascgiy.n
H.S.
HS.
4pr. 1932 Ksagi
s.s.
Sanjingu
(Shring)
Yuryu no Matsu
N.H.P.
B.
Zonpoji
(Yuryu Pin Troo)
(Tamplo)
Shinkanno inja no Kusu N.H.P.
B.
Shinkaxano
(Camphor Tree in Shin-
(Shriho)
kunano Shrine)
Rurikoi
s.s.
ss.
Oct. 1932 Nishinoto
Nishin
(Ruri Valley)
wp village
villae
Moiji Tenno Gyokojo Ki- HS.
HS.
Nov. 1933
Privato
datei (Kido's villa
Oamor
Visitad by Euporèr Moiji)
Kusuno Gayo:hi
H.S.
H.S.
Jun 1934
Iwnkara.
(Ruins of Tilo-Kiln in
village
Éusuno)
a. Ichino Pu-
H.S.
H.S.
Xyoso
o Ferty on

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.91)
HS.
H.S. Nov. 1934
ja (Honganji 
alted by Erporor Moijil
H.S. Nov. 1934
Myohoin
Meiji Tonno Myohoin An- H.S.
(Tanplo)
saisho, (Buuror Muiji's
la, yoto diey
Place of Sojourn at
Myohoin (Tuple)
H.S.
Anrakujuin
Takada Uchihat
Meiji Tunno Goshokorgo H.S.
(Tuple)
mchi,. Jushini
Amralajuin. (Empuror Muijiss
yoto City
Restinz Place at Anraku-
juin)
Shinojuswya-meh.
Moiji Tenno Gushokaijo
II.S.
H.S.
Honganji
(Tumple)
Shinokyola, yoto
Mikokutei (Enporor
City
Maiji's Rusting Placo
at Kikokutei)
H.S.
Dac. 1934
Honganji-nonson-
Honanji Daishoin Toi-on H.S.
nachi. Shinolyo-km.
(Gardon at Honganji)
S.S.
S.S.
Ryoto City
IH.S.
Doc. 1935
Shogoin
Shogoin-naka-uachi.
Shoyoin Kyu Kari Kokyo L.S.
(Tplo)
Sakyo-lau, Kyoto
(Shozoin, Foror Provisional
City
Inprial Paiaco)
HS.
HS.
Shinsanen
Oikodori Shinsunon
Shinsenon
mchi. Nakakyo-ka
(Shinsenen Gordun)
Kyoto City
S.S.
3.3. Duc. 1936
Honganji
Shinojuzuya-nchi.
Shosei-on
(Tample)
Shinokyo-a.
(Shosei Gardon)
Kyoto City
Gion-achi, Higa-
B.
pr. 1937 yoto City
Hon no Shidare-zakura N.H.P.
shiyann-ka, yoto
(Weeping Cherry Tree
City
st Gion Shrine)
Aeiji Tanno.Gosinokaijo
H.S.
HS.
July 1937
Honganji
(Tumple)
agaru, Shinokyo-k.
aiyodori. Shichijo-
Honganji Kyu Daikyoka
Kycto City
(Honganji's Old Lecture
all Visiéd by Euporor
aiji)
Ouro Ouchi. Ulyo-
aji Gosho-ato
H.S.
H.S. u. 1938 Minai
(Tenple)
ku. Kyoto City
ins of Iuperial Palace
Ninaji (Tumple)
Daikakaji
Saza Osaua-umch
aaaji Goshèmato
H.S.
H.S.
(Temple)
Ltasaga
of Imperinl
 Daimkuji
Joshoji
B.
(Tuaplo)
80pa. 1939

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.90)
Majo-jo Ninopara Tuisun
8.5. No. 1999
(Garden of wido Castle)
Yamata Angu-ato.
HS.
H.S. Au3 194 Yata
(Ruins of Yawata
Township
Tulporary Palnce)
Karaiji-ato (Ruins of
H.S.
. 4u 1940. Kakna
Kraiji (Tanple)
Tamship
Futatsuga-oln
S.S.
s.s.
Nov. 1941
Nimaji
(Futatsu (Duble) Hill)
(Taple)
Suirunin Kyu Inrigosho
H.S.
..
Mar. 1942 Suironin
(Forer Provisional
(Tu.ple)
Imporial Palaco in Soi-
renin (Tumple)
Kinchiin Tui-en
ss.
S.s.
Fob. 1943 Not given
Napmenji
(Gardən at Kinchiin)
nchi, Sa
(Tple)
Eyoto Ciy
Jojuin Tui-en
S.S.
S.S.
Shinisu 1
(Gardon at J-juin)
Higashiy
(Taple)
Eyoto City
Higashiyaan Kosekisci
N.H.P.
GM.
Inlaano
Shokubutsu Itai Hoganso
hiyoshi
(Mluvial Epoch Plants
Higashiya
and Formation on Higa-
Xyoto City
shiyam hills)
Chisakdin Tui-on
s.s.
ss.
Hizashiyoun
(Garden at Chiseldin)
Higashiya
(Temple)
Lyoto City
081
Sakrai no eki-ato
. II.B.
H.S.
Mar. 1922 Shimauoto
Shimmoto
(Kusunokdi Masashige Dense-
Tonship
Mishina-gun
tsuchi) (Ruins or Saku-
rainoekd (Traditional
House of Masashige Kusu-
nod)
Talaida Yokxana
H.S.
HS.
knahiwabara
(Takiida Cave)
Township
H.S.
H.S.

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.93)
N.H.P.
Mar. 1989
of Beech
d mtsure-
nishiw
City
oluji no Sotetsu N.H.P.
B.
Dao. 1924
Myokolma ji
(Tample)
(ralm-liko Plant (Cyoad)
of Myokokuji (Temple)
Mishin Village.
Isera Jinja no Ibo-
N.H.P.
B.
pr. 1927 Mish
akaura (Ibo Chorry Tree
Villago
Mishin-gun
at Isora Shrinu)
Meiji Tenno Taurura
H.S.
IH.S.
Nov. 1933
Tsumra
Hon-nchi, Rigashi.
Betsuin nzaisho (Eperor
Branch
Ja, Osaka City
Tauple
Meiji's Place of Sojourn
in Tswaura Branch Tuuple)
Meiji Tenno Nanivm Betsu- H.S.
H.S.
Naniwa
Kitakyutaro-cnchi.
in Anzaisho (Empuror Meiji's
Branch
Higashi-km.
Place of Sojourn in Niniwa
Tample
Osaka City
Branch Tumple)
Meiji Tunno Tonpozan
HS.
H.S.
Min. of
Nijo-dori, Minato-
Var
l. Osake City
Onodaolijo (Enmuror Meiji's
Foner Field Hoadquarters
in Tenpo Hill)
Meiji Tonno Sakai n-
HS.
Hi.s.
Private
Nakano-nachi
aisho (Eperor Meiji's
Owner
Sakmi City
Place of Sojourn in Sakai)
Kongoji Keidai
H.S.
HS.
Mar. 1934
Kongoji
Nagan Township.
(Teriple)
Minani-knwachi-gun
(Grounds of Konzoji
(Temple)
Mmanshinji Koidai
H.S.
HS.
Mnshinji
mwakni village.
(Tample)
Minani-kawachi-gun
(Grounds of Kanshinji)
(Tumple)
Chihaya Joshi (Ruins.
HS.
H.S.
Chihaya
Chiaya Village.
of Chihaya Castle)
Village
Minani-kmvachi-gun
Msunoki Joshi (Sai- H.S.
HS.
Aknaala
Akasaka Village.
ainsakm Joshi) (Ruins of
village
Minari-kmwachi-oun
Masunold Castle, Ruina.
miaknsaka Castle)
Joshi
HS.
H.S.
of kesakn Castle)
N.H.P.
B.
Dac. 1937 Honslioji
Tonita Towns
(Taxple)
Mishinawun
N.H.P.
B.
May 1938
Mishina
...2998

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.93)
Suaiyoshi Angu-ato
HS.
.S. Ma. 1999
(Ruins of Tuiporary
Palac∞ in Suaiyoshi)
Kudaraji-ato (Ruins
H.S.
H.S. June 1941
of Kudaraji (Tumple)
(Shrine
Ogata Koan Kyutaka oyo- H.S.
H.S. Dac. 1941
bi Juku (For.er Houso
and school of Kan Ogata)
Meiji Tenno Kishiwada
H.S.- H.S. Supt. 1943
Anzaisho (Eiperor Muiji's
Place of Sojourn in
Kishiwada)
Moiji Tenno Sebui An- H.S.
H.S. June 1944
zais ho. (E.peror Meiji's
Pla of Sojourn in Sobuni)
Nonalmji Kyu Garan-ato
HS.
H.S. Nov. 1944
(Ruins of Catiodral of
Nonalaji (Tumple)
HYOGO
Wadcisali. Hodat
HS.
H.S.. Mar. 1921. Mitsubishi Hyogo
(old Bettory c vida
Ship Building City
Point)
Co., Ltd.
Harina Kolabunji-ato
H.S.
.3.
Miknino
(Ruins of Harin. Kolaibun-
Village
ji (Templa)
Goshikizur (Suntsubo) H.S.
H.S.
Tcruni
Kafun (Goshikizuka (Sun-
Tormship
tsubo Old Mound)
Danbayain Kafun Dei 1,2. H.S.
H.S.
Miknino
3 Kafun (Nanbayana Old
village
Shil
Mounde)
Tsuruyam Konotor! Han- N.H.P.
J.
Murobani
holiahi. (Stork Habitat
village
in Tsuruyam)
Shojosukn Kofun
H.S.
H.S. Mar. 1922 Milnge
(Shojosuke: Old Mound)
Towns hip
Mishinoiya Hodai
H.S.
H.S.
Niahinoniye
(Old Bastary at Nishi-
Cisy
H.B. Nob. 1923

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.93)
N.H.P.
B. 00t. 1959
in maaid villago)
 Kolaudo Matsuna-
N.h.P.
B. Fob. 1940 Mine of
Hore Affaire
Treas alone Awaji
Highway)
Benju no Matsu
N.H.r.
B.
nnon-do
Mihara-gun
(Pine Trees in Sunju)
Talahà no Kusu
No.
B.
June 1928 Kobo City
Kobo City
(Camphor Truo at Talaha)
Yashiro no Okuyald
N.H.P.
B.
Mar. 1928 shika
Yanaguchi villege,
(Giant Zelkove Treo in
Shrine
eago-gun
Yashiro)
Hirji-jo
HS.
N.S. Supt. 1928 Hineji
Ichino'o Villae
City
City
(Himedi Castle)
Yoshino Matsubara
s.s.
3.3. 0ct. 1928
Matsuho
Matsuho Villege.
village
Mibara-gun
Coshino Pine Grovo)
Genbudo
N.H.P.
GM. Feb. 1931
Tazuno
Tazuno Villago.
Villago
Kinosald-gun
Gonbu Care.)
Bashizaki no Byohu-iva N.H.P.
G.M. Oct. 1931
Mine of
Koshibe Village,
griculture
Kanoka village.
(Parpundicular Cliff
Min. of
Ihibo-gun
at Hashizaki)
Har ffaira
Haioka Village
Moiji Tonno Himwji An- H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1933
Hontokaji
Chinouchel
(Tanple)
Hinoji City
maisho (Eperor Moiji's
Place of Sojourn in Himeji)
biji Tonno Akashi n- H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1933
Kanyoji
Kajiya-machi.
(Temple)
Akashi City
isho (Emperor Meiji's
Place of Sojourn in mshi)
jiun Mihonoura
S.S.
S.S. June 1934.
Hawasaka
Hansala Tomship.
jim Mihonoura Sea
N.H.P.
GM.
Township.
Mikata-Gun
Anrube
Amarube Village.
village
Xinosaki-gun
Burcganenochi.
N.H.P.
B.
shiya City Ashiy City
Cak Trees (Ilex
Thunb) In Rokk∞)
N.H.P.
3.
in Áshya)
.. Ma. 1934
Enkyoji

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.87)
Meiji Tanno Shojo An- H.
H.S.. Nov.. 1994
zaibho (Eiporor Miji's
Place of Sojourn in
Shojo)
Meiji Tunno Otsuki Go- HS.
H.S.
Enviji
(To..iple)
3..ij (Eporor Meiji's
ustin r'lice i: Otsuld)
Miji Tun.  ide Go
.
Jizin
imida villed
s. ij) (E por r Miji's
(Tulplo)
Innan-gun
st
c. i. d..)
Piv..t
Sunura-dori,
O. mor
Su.m-lu. Kobe C
. uly 1936
Ota Vil age Ota village.
iji Toe Y nd G  .
Ihibo-gun
kaij) (E ror r hiji's
Rustin Fhco in Yer da)
Meiji Tenno Taucniya  HeS.
H.S.
IB.raoka
Hiraok
Gosnolaijo (E.peror Liji?s
Villago
Kalo-gun
Restins Place in Trmei
yan)
Meiji Tenio Chibo Go.
Es.
Ii.s.
Okubo
Olbo vil
shokoijot). .on) (Ruins of
villago
Amshi-
Emperor ji's esring
Place in hibo and tho
structure)
Kobe Maruy Tsu'dae N..P.
GM. Dac. 1937
Kobu City
Nagata v
Hayaskid
Danso (Myan Glojical
Kobe Cis
Fault in Y o)
Khswi Kaigan
s.s.
S.S. May 1938
Kasud
Kaaud
(Kaswi Sea Coast)
Tamship
Kinosaki
Yorqi no Sode (S leevo
N.H.P.
GM.
of Arnour) Geological
Fonation)
Maiji Tanno Gosholbijo
H.S.
Hes. Juno 1938
Mine of
Kyu Kobe Zo ikan Kanshi
Financo,
bu-ato, oyob: Tatulono
Kobon City
(Kobe For Customs House
and Jatch Pxur, Emperor
Meiji's Hesting Place)
Takmda Joshi
H.S.
H.S. Sapt. 1944
(Ruins af Takoda Castle)
Tantokn mbus
H.S.
(Saoke a Mound)

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.92)
Daiji-ato
H.S.
.S. Mar. 1921
Asuke
of ailan Daiji)
village
to Yalashiji-ato
H.S.
H.S.
Ünebi
Unobi Villa
(tuins of Old Yakusliji)
villago
Talmichi-gn
(Tample)
Uehigawa Magaihi
H.S.
Hi.S.
Nara
Uahi Villasa
Monuent on Uchigawa
Profecturo
Uchi-gun
Cliff)
Gyoki Haka
HS.
H.S.
Minani-
Minani-ikma
(Taub of Gyoki)
ikana Village Village. Ims
Miyayan Kafun
H.S.
ILS.
Akitau
Aldtsu Village.
(üyayan Old Mound)
villago
Minani Katauragi-
gun
Dtaya:n Juhachi Kunko
H.S.
HS.
Nara
Savakani-machi
(pld Lepor Colony and
Profecture
Nara City
Amylu)
Zuto
H.S.
H.S. Mar. 1922
Takubata-unchi.
(Zu Taver)
Nara City
Maro Ko-un
S.S.
s.s.
Nara City
(Nara Park)
Touldgase Blirin
S.S.
S.S.
Tsukigase
Touldigacs village.
(Plum Grove in Tsukigase)
village
Sounokmi-gun
Hoijogu-shi
H.S.
H.S. 0ct. 1922
Nara
Nara City
(Ruins of Heijo Palcca)
Prefecture
Buldosidake Gons..irin
N.H.P.
B.
aikita-
Zn.ikdtayan
(Prineval Forest on
yaua Village
Village, Amano.
Bukkei)
kawa Village,
Yoshino-gun
ajuin Nishi Kofun
H.S.
H.S. Mar. 1923
Monjuin
bo Towmship.
onjuin Old Mound)
(Tample)
Shikd-om
shizuka Kofun
HS.
...
Hango
Hango villago,
hisukn Old Mound)
village
Talaic i-un
in Nara Yao-
N.H.P.
B.
Zosbi chi
(Kora Double
Nam Jty
Charry Treos
okin (Taple)
N.H.P.
Kasuga
Nam City
Shrine
H.S. Dae. 1924

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.92)
Easugeyarn Genshirin
N.H.{. B. Des.. 1990
(Primval Forest on
Mt. Xasuga)
Morino Xyu Yalaón
H.S.
H.S. Fob, 1926
uta
(For er Herb Garden in
Tonship
Mxrino)
Mobara Haiji-ato
IH.S.
H.S. Oct. 1926
Toyolara
(Ruins of Old Ta.iple in
Township
Mobara)
Amalharaji-ato (Ruins
H.S.
H.S. 4pr. 1927
Taunodms
of Amharaji (Tunple)
village
Kosuji To-ato (Ruina
H.S.
H.S.
Kateura
of the Tower at Koseji)
Village
(Tumple)
Talananiya Haiji-ato
II.S.
H.S.
Katsuragi
(Ruins of Old Tulple
villate
in Takananiya)
Hisoji-asc 'Ruina
11,S.
H.S.
Oyx0
Oyodo
of Hisoj: (Templo
Tamship
Yoshin
Nishiy 
H.S.
H.S.
Tanbaichi
Tanbaishs
(Nishiyr Jd)
Tomship
Yambe-g
Sunoyain horun
H.S.
HS.
Und
(Sunoyan Old Mound)
viilage
Hanayan:rkau Kofun
H.S.
H.S. Apr. 1927
Taunanino
(Hanaya. ika Gld Mound)
village
Nakaoyan Kun
HS.
H.S.
Hango
(Nakaoyain Jid Mound)
villago
Shobuik Kn
H.S.
H.S.
Unebi
Umobi
(Shobuike Old Mound)
Village
Salafuneichi
H.S.
HS.
Taknioli
Takniohi
(Saknfum Stone)
village
Oyana-ranss Jiscichi
N.H.P.
B. Feb. 1928
Tonkn
(Wild Giant Lotus Habitat)
village
Inayamo Tuso
N.H
B. Mar. 1928
(Inóyan Bushes)
Nov. 1928

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.92)
NoHoP.
B. Nov. 1930
ad af Lilly-of-tho-
lley in Haya.n)
tsuyarn Nishiguchi
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1931
Uta Tan-
Uta Tomshiy,
annon (Jestern Gatowuy
ship
Uta-gun
of Mtsu.)
Rumis-shijini Suisokuchi N.il.P.
Z. Mar. 1932
Nam Pro-
Knsugano-cnchi,
(Unusual Butterfly (Runis
focturo
Nara City
Corbicula) Habitat)
(Kasuga
Shrine)
Shishinran Gunraku
N.H.P.
B. Apr. 1932
C.ikita-
nikdtay an
Shishin Orchid Inbitat
yu.a Villago
Village, Yoshino-
gun
Barbon Matsu
N.l.P.
B.
Sanbon Matsu Sanbon u
(Threu Fine Trous)
Villago
Village, Uta-un
Mitsui Gayoshi (Ruins
H.S.
H3.
Tanisato
Tanisato Village.
of Tile Kiln in Mitsui)
villago
Ika-un
Genkoji To-uto
L.S.
H.S.
Gunkoji
Shibashinya-mchdi
(Ruins o) T er of Gon-
(Tple)
Naru City
koji (Teaple)
Yatsufusa Sugi
N.H.F.
B.
Sakura.i
Ugashi village,
(Yataufusa Japanese
Shrino
Uta-gun
Codar)
Todaiji Kyu Keidai
H.S.
H.S. July 1932
Nara Pro-
Togai-chd,
(old Grounde of Todaiji)
fecturo
Nara City
(Teple)
Meiji Tenno Nara Anzai- H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1933
Todaiji
Zosli-achi,
ho (Emperor Meiji's
(Tumplo)
Nara City
Place of Sjourn in Nam)
iji Tunno Nara Daihon- H.S.
H.S.
Nara Pro-
Kasuga-o-nchi,
(Emperor Maiji's For.er
fecture
Nara Cit
dguarters in N:ra)
ji Tunno Lni Anzai- H.S.
HS.
Shononji
Lai-o.
(Emparor Mui ji's
(Temple)
Talx ichi. Ciuy
of Sojourn in Lxi)
ji Tcaanin Kyu Koi- H.S.
H.9. Mar. 1934
Nora Pro-
Zoh.sld.
(Grounds of Tonanin
fasturo
Nara Prefectur
odaiji (Temple)
H.S.
H.S.
Mino of
Entsurezt village
Agricul ture Minan-kntsuragi
Entsuragi
gun
Village
8.8. May 1934

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.91)
Jikmin Tui-on (Gardon
S.8
S.s. Deo. 1994
Jin
at Jikoin (Txmple)
H.S.
HS.
(Tample)
Byobu-iwa Kabuto-ivwa
N.H.P.
GM.
Noni
Yoroi-iwa (Porpondiou-
villago
lar Cliff. Holiet Cliff,
r.our Cliff)
Ishinidai Kofun
1.s.
I.S. Dec. 1935
Nara Pro-
Takmiohi vill
(Isniaidai old Mound)
footure
Takai chi-gun
Juisuzuka Kufun
H.S.
H.S. Supt. 1936
Xasuganon
(Uzuisuzuk: Old Mound)
Narm City
Eizanji ngu-ato
Iis.
II.S. . 1938
Ucii village Uchi villages
(Ruins or Toaporary
Uchi-
Palace in Eizanji)
Jujiwr: Thachinro
II.S.
I.S. July 1940
iaka (Toib of Talachi-
aro Fujivam)
iitaui Gayosli (Ruins
H.S.
I.S. Junc 1944
Not iven
Taisnto villa
f Mitsui Tile Kiln)
Ikana-un
rujiw ra Guslhi
Ii.S.
li.S.
Taknichi-gun
(Ruins of Fujiwarato
(alace)
JAKAYAMA
(Hashigui-iwa
S.S.
S.S. Dec. 1924
Kushinoto
Kushioto Tam
(Hnshi ui Cliff)
N.H.P.
GM.
To.mship
Nishi-uro-
Jishihan no Noagari-
N.H.P.
B.
i.pr. 1927
Jak.ya.n
Nishibana.
atsu (Pin with its
Citý
Waky ama City
Roots above the Ground
n Nishilnnn (C mst)
Sningu Rinzawa Uktshi.a N.H.P.
B.
Shingu City Shingu City
Shokubutsu Gunralat
(Plants on Floating Is-
Land in Shinu Rinzawa)
Yunomine-shida Jisuioli N.H.P.
B. Junu 1928
Yuttsu
Yottsu Village
(Yunonino Fern Habitat)
Village
Higashi uro-
Kii Kukubunji-ato
H.S.
I.S. Feb. 1928
Iloda
Ikoda Village
(Ruins of Kii okabunji)
village
Naga-gun
(Tnple)
Nishi Kokubunji Tomato
HS.
H.S.
Ki-ivaido Kad-dwaido
(Ruins of Wostern Tower
villago
Naga-Sun
of Kokubunji (Tanple)
Vachi Genshirin
N.H.P.
B. Mar. 1928
Kunno
Nachd To
(Priveval Forost in Nachi)
Naohi Slrike Hig
shirainn no Kseld
N.HoP.
G.M. Feb. 1931
Shiram:n
Shiralnn
Ronkon-aso (Fossils
Towmship
ind acter Mark in Shi-
mmn)
N..P.G. . 1931

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.91)
ana-jo
H.S.
H/S. Mar. 1991
Wakayama
ayana Castle)
City
Wala yara C
Myokai Kishu Iseld So-
H.S.
IH.S. Juno 1931
Tasugam, Ishdo
Sobe (Gravu-arker,
Yasuda, mdo
Renins of Kyolmi-in
Ubuishi villages.
Xishu)
Arita-gun
Naruga.i K:izula
HS.
H.S. July 1931
Waln yan
Narugani-mohi.
(Narugali Slll Iound)
City
Halayan City
Ihase Sen-zulm (T.ou-
H.S.
HS.
Nishiwasn
Nishiwasa Villago,
aand Munds in I.s)
Village
Kis o-n
Misu Haiji To-ato
Ii.S.
i.S. Doc. 1935
Misu Villago
Misu Villago..
(Ruins of the Twer of
Nishi-uro-gun
the Old Tuaple in Misu)
Knshin
N.L..P.
B..
Shinjo
Shinjo Village,
(Kashiin (Is1 nd)
GM
villag
Nishi-murao-
Monzon no O-iv
N.h.P.
GM.
n
Yura
Yura Village.
(Gruat Rock in M mzun)
villago
Hidaka-un
Tkaike no Mushi 'nui..
Nel.P.
GM.
Tikcild
Tkaiko Village.
ina (Mushtii Rock in
villago
Higashi-uro-un
Tokaike)
Torinosu-hint) no i- N.i.P.
GM. Supt. 1936 Siinjo
Shinjo Villagu:
gan Ganaya'u (Mudstone
Villnge
Nishi-uro-gun
Dyka in Toinsu runin-
sula)
Kurusugawa Kikkoseki
N.H.P.
GaM. Juno 1937
Kurusuguve
Kurusugawa Villago
Hoganso (Septarian
villago
Nishi-uro-u.
Stratua in Kurusun)
Tontokuin Tui-on
ss.
S.S. Junu 1937
Tuntolain
Koyo To i p.
(Garden of Tutokuin)
(Tunple)
Itoーn
(Telple)
Jumonin TRi-on
S.S.
S.S. Junu 1938
Frionin
(Gardon at Fuionin)
(Temple)
(Tumplo)
Hiro-mura Teibo
H.S.
.. Dac. 1938
Hiro
Hiro vilo
(Lovee in Firo Village)
Village
Hamguchi Goryo Haka
IH.S.
H.S.
Private
Minriiro Vill
(Tamb of Goryo Ha nguchi)
Omor
4rita-rn
ano Hayatan Jinja N.Hor
B. Fob. 1940
Kwno
Slingu, Shingu C..ty
Na3i (Evorgreen Shrubs
Hyata.n
sous Aouleatus) in
Shrine
ano Hayatain Shrine)
o Ichirisum
H.S.
H.S. July 1940
Min, of
Shinmaika,
stone in Shikogo)
Hae Affairs Wa layaria City
G.M. Dao. 1941
Tanabe City Tanabe Cit
4 Rook in Tanabe)

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.92)
AR-231-0R-3-1
REASON
CLASSI-
FOR
NAME
LICATION DESIG. DESP.
TOTTORI
Ifuku Kicnibu Tokutari
H.S.
H.S. Duc. 1938
Ubuno
Ubono villa
Hime no Hak-ato (Ruins
villg
Iwami-gun
of Tomb of Ifuku Kicli-
 Tokutri Hin)
Hojoji Runri Nuari-
N.L.P.
B.
Oct..1939
Hojoji
Yonago City
.tsu (Twin Pine Trous
(T-nplo)
(vit.. roots above round)
it Hojoji (Tunplu)
Daisun Kyaraboku Jun-
N.h..P.
B.
Juno 1927
Min. of
Disun Villago
rin(Forust o; Yuw Truus
Agriculturo
Suiiaku-gun
(Tar:s cuspidt) on
Daison)
Uritoni Dign
S.S.
S.S.
1.r. 1928
Not given
Uratoni, Ajiro
(Uritomi Sea Coust)
N.I.P.
J.M.
Towmships, Azuma
Tajiri Villagos.
Iwaini-gun
Mimiji Kofun
H.S.
h.S. Nov. 1931
Kurayoshi
Kurayosii Townsli
(Mi.aciji  1 Mound)
Tons.ip
Toha k-un
Ivai heiji Fo-t)
H.S.
H.S.
Imi Tova-
Iwai Towmship,
(Ruins or wor
s..ip
Ivami-un
Old Tumple in I/.i)
Haji Momoi Haiji To-ato
H.S.
Ii.S.
Chiof of
Kuninakm villago
(Ruins of Tover of Old
H. ji Momoi
Hatto-un
Tuaple in Haji Momoi)
Qwartor
Sunjozai Anu-ato
lI.S.
H.S. May 1932
Min. of
Issi villag.
(Ruins ? Tporary
Ariculturo
To.aku-gun
Palnce in oun jozan)
Sonjosan
Sirino
Ivay~ Kofun
H.S.
H.S. July 1932
Udagawa
Udagawa villago
(Iw:ya Old Moird)
villge
Suilak-
Sukci Ki
S.S.
S.S. Fob. 1933
Hinokami-
Hinoki Villago
(Sukka Vail.y)
villgo
Kurosaka Villago
Hino-gun
Yazo no Fuji
N.h.P.
B.
Junc 1934
Not given
Yago vVillago.
(Histaria in Yago)
Hino-un
Rimaaar..ruri-tsubam-
N.li.P.
B.
May 1934
Gokoku
Tsuka, Kuriya,
cho (Bruedin Placu of
Shrino,
ai Villagos,
Butturfly (Nuope
Tottori City
Tottori City
Gasohkavitschii)
Hahakd Jinja Slaso
N...P.
B.
Hainkd
Kusakabo Villag
(Slruba in Hakakd Shrim)
Shrinu
Tohak
Kurata Haohimmnzu Sinso N.H.P.
B.
May 1934
Kurata Ha-
Krata Village
(Sirubs in Kurata Ha-
chiman
Iwami-3un
climan Slrins)
Shrino
Kurayoshi no Okayald
N.li.P.
B.
Sumiyoshi
Burayoshi
(Giant Zulkova Treo
Shrino
in ayosi)
S.B.
8.8. July -934

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.89)
CLASSI.
FOR
OF
FICATION DESIG.DESIG.
omisulnno-mikoto
N.ll.P.
B.
Au3. 1934
Onamisuluno
Taisho villa
no-mikoto
Kedaks-zun
Minja Slaso (Slhrubs in
Onomisukinu-no-mikoto
Sirin
Surinu)
Hold Ic inamiyn Kya
H.S.
...S. Doc. 193
Tonri
To uri villago.
villig~
Tonku-
zuka (Kyo (Sutra) Mound
in Hokd Ic.inoniy?)
Or: Hmiji To-to
H.S.
HS.
Saigo Villago.
Viilago
Toak-un
(Ruins of Towor or Old
Tomple in O. rm)
Sainoo Haiji-to
H.3.
H.S.
Union of
Lsuzakd Villago,
Hoto Villag Toiak-
(Ruins or Old TumplL
Iciso, Isu-
in S.inoo)
zald Villeges
Tochi i Haiji To- to
H.S.
HS.
u
0cy
Olaaya Vil go.
Villa
I:xmi-sin
(Ruins or Tover or Old
Tumple in Toci.igi)
Hoki no caji
.P.
B. Ar. 1937
Knsup
Kofunos..o Village.
Shrine
Tolaku-un
(Giant P.. a Tree
in Hoki)
Shok-ki
S.S.
S.S. Dec. 1937
Shokm
Ojik Villago.
vill
Toinku- un
(Slok V.licy
Shirousai Jinja Shaso N...P.
B.
in
Shirousagi
Suctsun. Vill
(Sirubs at Shircusigi
Sirine
Kdala-un
Sirine)
Kannonin Tui-n
S.S.
3.s. u. 1937
Kannonin
Kami Tore ip.
(T-mple)
Tottori 
(Gordon at nnonin)
(Tpl)
Ozaki-shi Tui-un
S.s.
S.S.
Privatu
Uno 
(Ozaki's Crdun)
o:mor
Tol..
n
Uyu no Ronri Nuxgori
N.h.P.
B. 4us. 1943
Not given
To
Toba.
Matsu (Twin Pine Trus
(with. roots above ground)
in Uya)
Mutsugani Tinja no Saka- N.h.P.
B.
Mar. 1944
K.
 Jurin rust of
Saored Saki Trous at
Mataugani 3.rine)
08: Vi.90
Khrakawa no Kikitsu-
N.Ii.P.
B.
Ivami-
bata Gunralau (Stand of
Iris in Karalowa)
SHIMANE
2
sumo Kokubunji-ato
H.S.
H.S. Mar. 1921
Taloye
Takaya Villago
ns of Izumo Kokubunji)
Villaco
Yotsuka-gun
mplo)
Doabunji-ato
H.S..
HS.
Kokfu
Kokuru Villcgo
village
Nola-sun

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.93)
AR-231-0R-81
CLASSI-
FOR
FICATION
Kurokizuta Sanchi
N.H.P.
B.
r.1922
Kuroki, Ama
(Black Ivy Hbitat)
villages
Izumo T:rtsukuri-ato
H.S.
H.S. Oot. 1922
Tamyu
Tanyu vill
(Ruins of Old Boad
villagu
Yatoum-
Factory in Izuno)
Yn's.iro Fute o-zuk
H.S.
I.S. Doc. 1938
Oba Village
Oba Villago.
(Futa o (T. in) Mounds
Yatsuka-un
in Y msi.iro)
Ob: Tori-zuki
Ii.S.
H.S.
(Obc. Cock Mound)
Kishioji Tsukiym
R.S.
I..S.
n
Izuno City
Izumo -City
Kofun (Tsukiy: Old
Aound in Kamis.ioji)
K. is.ioji Jizoya
H.S.
H.S.
Korun (Jizoyam Old
Mound at Knis..ioji)
Imicii Driunji Y fun
h.s.
HS.
n
(D:imnji Old Mu at
I:ic..i)
Te. ikue (c
S.S.
S.S. hpr. 1927
Otsutacli
Otsutaci villago
Foration.S Co.3t)
N.n.P.
..
Village
Hikava-un
or
Oninosiit:--furi (Rock
S.S.
S.S.
Minari
Minari Towmship
Fornation on Sua Const) N.H.P.
G.1.
Tons..ip
Nita-un
Kuguri-to
S.S.
S.S. Junc 1927
Kga
Kaga Villago,
(Kyuri Peint)
N.r.P.
villa
Yatsuka-gun
Myojin no Matsu
N.H.P.
B.
Na.o Villago Nala Villago,
(Pin Tru in Myojin)
Suld-gun
Sugata-an
h.S.
H.S.
Fub. 1928 Matsuc City
Suta-mchi,
(Sugato. Cottage)
S.S.
S.S.
Matsuo City
Ta mo Danclisci Katsu-
N.H.P.
B.
Not given
Nake Villagu,
Suld-un
jo Jurin (Forcst of
Latifoliato Trous of
Warm Zone in Takeo)
Manpukuji Tei-un
H.S.
HS.
Mar. 1923
Manpukaji
Iwami-Tomship,
(Garden at Mankuji)
S.S.
s.s.
(Tompl)
Mino-gun
(Tunplu)
Ikoji Tui-un (Gardun
HS.
HS.
Ikoji
at Ikoji (T.mple)
(Tumplo)
Tamnwakasu -no-mikoto
N.H.P.
B.
Dac. 1929 . Tamwakmsu
Iso Villago,
Jinja no Yao-sugi (Yao
no-mikoto
Sukd-gun
Japanase Codar at Tam-
Slrino
wakasu-no-mikoto Surino)
Onjima no Yogan Zuido N.H.P.
GM. July 1931 . Yatsuka
Yatsuke Villa
(Lava Tunnel on Onejima)
village
Yat
Takmrasukn Kafun
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1931
Puchi
ekmrasukn Old Mound)
Villago
de

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.92)
AR-291-CR-B-1
REASON
DATE
CLASSI-.: FOR
OF
FICATION DEL.DISL.
TRATOR
Senjo no Tani
ss.
8.3. July 1932
Icliycmn
Io..iyama villa
(sunjo Valluy)
villago
Hima Villago.
Hiwa Villago Ooli-un
Taukisnima no Ganmyaku N.H.P.
G.M.
Nonami
Nonami Village.
Stone Dy in Tsukis.ima)
Village
Y:tsuke-oun
Th ko. no Ninatsuan
F.H.P.
G.M.
Nonami
Nonami Village,
(Suven Caves in Tako)
Villagu
Yatsula-n
Iwayaji no Kiri:k
N.H.P.
G.I.
Ivcyaji
YokotoTownships
(uolojical formtion
(Tumple)
Nita-gun
at Ivayn ji)
Tamayu Villa
Tokur iyo Kojun
Tomayu
(Tokuruiyo Old Mound)
HS.
H.S. Fub. 1933
Villa
Yatsukn-
Tinkan Kofun
H.S.
H.S.
Furue
Furu Village
(ankman Old Mound)
Villago
Yatauka-gun
(Mihono Kitaur: Sua
K.t~:o
Katao Village
Const)
Yatsuka-gun
Sata, Kobo kitur
li.S.
H.S. pr. 1933
Sat.
Sata Villagu
(Sata. Kbu, Shull
villago
Kobu Villnço
Mound)
Kobu Villagu Yatsuk-un
Matsue Shiroycm no
N.H.P.
B.
Matsu
Tono mmchi
Kurogenesechi
City
Tatsue City
(Holm : tr(Ilx
Rotunda Tunb)in
Matsuo Siiromya)
old Kokubunji
H.S.
H.S.
Mar. 1934
Na.nsuji
Nakesuji Vilic
Kiani (rounds of
villago
Bukc-un
Oki Kokubunji (Tumple)
bja Kofun
H.S.
H.S.
May 1934
Oba Villago
Oba Villo,
(bja Ola Mound)
Yatsuk- un
Matsuo-jo
H.S.
..S.
Matsue City
Tono Tornelip.
(Matsuu Cstl)
Matsac Slty
Hinamisald no Osotutsu
N.h.P.
B.
May 1934
Fukusloji
Hinomiso ki Villa
(Giant Foon-lilo Plant
(Tunplo)
Hilmmun
(Cycad) in Hinamisakd)
Takatsu Funri no Matau
N..P.
B.
1934
Hachiman
Ishimi Townslip.
tonusual The Trous in
Takatsu)
Misumi Ohira-zakura
N.H.P.
B.
pr. 1935
Misumi
Misumi Township.
(Ohira Charry Trees in
Toinsl.ip
Nak-zun
Misuni)
Mumomi no Taki
. S.3.
S.S Deo. 1935
Ii-ishi
Ii-ishi villae:
(Mumani Water Falls)
N.H.P.
G.M.
village
Ii-ishi-u
Onajima Daini Yoan
N.H.P.
GM.
Junu 1935
Yatsuka
Yatsuka Villago.
ldo (Second Lava
villago
Yatsuia-gun
mol in Onajima)
H.S.
H.S. Doo. 1935
Ilara, malano Ihare
vilingos

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.91)
1R-231-0R-2-1
CLSSI-
PICITION DESIG.
Ryuzugatakd
S.S.
s.s.
Dac. 1935
Matsuknsa
village
(Ryuzu Flls)
GM.
Supt. 1936 Kute
Hnunishi no Kikaboku N.h.P.
Towmship
(Putrified Hood in
Hanunis..id
Sufu Kofun
I..S.
H.S. Dac. 1936
Ha.mda City
City
Chive, Hamde
(Sufu Cld Mound)
araslima vill
Tsukriy.m Korun
H.S.
H.S.
11
ashim
Village
Noi-g
(Tsukuriyma Old Mound)
yasukd Ic.irizukm
H.S.
E.S.
Yasuld
To.:ns hip
Yasukdi Township
Nogi-gun
H.H.P.
GaM.
Kanate
Kanta Villaga.
Brane no Hebi-iwe
villago
Mino-zun
(Sna Rock in Karam)
N...P.
B.
.pr. 1937
Hilara
Usiio Village
Us.io-mura no Katsure
Shrino
Oicra-gun
(Judas Troe in Ushio
Vil)
Shinofu iji T
H.S.
H.S. June 1937
Village
Kokufu villago.
Yatsuka-un
(Ruins or Tour or Old
Temple in ..im v)
H.S.
H.S. Junc 1937
Sinji
Shinji Tomship.
Inani Icljri-zukn
Towmship
Yatsuka-zun
(Inmi Mil, Stono)
H.S.
H.S.
Shuseri,
Shusai, Lno
Slussci, I...no c..iri-
Ihanc Villagos Villages
zule (Ssi. Tano.
Milc Stou)
Z.
Dec. 1937
Hasa Villago
Hasa Village
Sufug m Kewa Slinjujai Noh.P.
Naka-gun
Soisokuchi (River Puarl
Oystur Habitat in Rivor
Sufu)
ss.
Ono Village
Ono Villago,
Yasurizaki oyobi Matsu- S.S.
Mino-gun
G..1.
shima Ji.ku-ichi (Ma- N.H.P.
nutic Stunes in Yasuri-
zald and Matsushim)
N.n.F.
B.
Matsuc City
Hi shi Tsuda
Mataue en Mic.itsuda
Township. Nishi
itsunamiki (Matsue Clan's
Tsuda Township
Roa d-sia, Pine Trous in
Michitsuda)
Oki Fuse Kigun
ss.
S.S. May 1938
Fuso Villago Fuse Villago
Sufu-gun
(Sea Coast at Oki Fuse)
Okdi Kuniga Kaigan
s.s.
s.s.
villages
Kuroki, Urago Kurold.. Urese
villages
(Sua Coast at Old Kuniza) N.H.P. G.M.
Old Hakucio Kigan
s.s.
S.S.
Naka
villago
(Soa Const at Old Haklolo)N.H.P. GM.
Okei Noridano Hana
S.S.
s.s.
(Morida Point at Old)
N.H.P.
G.M.

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.91)
TELBON
CLLSSI-
FOR
ADMDNIS-
FIC TION DESIG.DESEL.
TR&TOR
Old Chiburi Wan
s.3.
s.s. Doc. 1938
Chibu
Chibu Village.
(Chiburi Bay at Okd)
village
Chibu-
(Watatau
S.rin)
Okinoshim Omizunagi-
N.H.P.
2.. Feb. 1940
Bliratori
Naka Villago.
dori Hanslhokich1 (Puf-
Slirine
Suld-un
finus Loucon lis)
(Puffin Sua Bird Habi-
tat at Oki Island)
Koizumi Yagumo Kyukyo
H.S. . 1940
Mtsu City
Kitabori Tom-
(Foror House of Lafcadio
sip. Matsuu Cit
Hirn)
Yans..iro Hofun
HS.
H.S. . 1941Oba Vill
Oba Villago,
(Squire Mound in Yuris iro)
Yatsuix-Jun
Sulkumo-zuka Kfun
11.3.
H.S. Nov. 1941
Iwa.ni
Ivari Towmslip.
(Sukrno-zuk Old Mound)
To.ns:ip
Nino-un
Tsuino Jes.i
li.3.
H.S. Oct. 1942
Not iven
Tauweno Towmsl
(Ruins o. Tauvano Castl~)
Hatecalo Viljag
Yaachi-gun
Goneny: Dkitsu Julyo H.S.
H.S.
Not iven
Moriyema Villeg
ato (Ruin of Cave Divel-
Yatsuka-un
lin's i. It. Conon)
Takezakdi no Katsura
N.H.P.
B.
1943
Torigami Villey
(Judas Troo in Takozaki)
Nita-n
Suki no Goi.on Mitsu
N.H.P.
B.
Mihonosoki Torm
(Five Pine Trees in
ship, Yatsuka-y
Seki)
Takozaki. no Is..ivari
N.H.P.
B.
Torigmi villag
Kayakd (Ston- Split
Nita-un
Zulkov Treu in Taiwzaki)
Omoto Jinja-ato no Kusu N.H.P.
B.
Hibare Village;
(Camphor Troe in tio
Kaasli-un
Ruins of Qoto Shrino)
Sanbakcta no Matsu
N.H.P.
B.
Mihonosaki Towm
(Pine Tros in Sanbakata)
ship. Yatsuka-
OK YM4
Taukuriyam Kofun
H.S.
H.S. Mar. 1921
Kno Village.
(Taukauriyama Old Mound)
villago
Tsukubo-;un
Tsukariyama Kofun
H.S.
H.S.
Misu
Misu Villago,
(Tsukariyama Cld Mound)
Tillago
Tsukubo-n
Shizutani Gakdk∞, fu Chin- H.S.
H.S. Mar. 1922
Iri Villago
Iri Village,
san Sokimon Tauda Naga-
wako-un
tada Tak-ato and Koyotui
(Shisutani School, Ruins
Chiman Solimon Naa-
sada Tauda's House and
Cotsago)
yahan Haz ..
HS.
Oknyama
Nishi-nakayam
Clan's Sakadi)
Profocture
shita, Cmyanm

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.92)
AR-231-0R-3-1
RELSON DATS
CLSSI-
NAME
FICATION DEBIG.
Koralawn
S.s.
S.S. Mar. 1922
Okayamm
(Koraka Gardon)
Profecture
Bitchu Kokubunji-ato
H.S.
H.S. Qet. 1922
Misu Village
Misu Villa
(Ruins of Bitciu Koku-
Yamate
Yamate vil
bun Nunnory)
village
Tsukbo-gin
Kndo-shi Haka
H.S.
H.S. Mar. 1923
Mitani
Mitani village.
(Tomb of Kado Family)
villago
Oda-gun
Go no Tani
S.s.
S.S.
Yamato, Ikoda Yamato, Iloda
(Go Valley)
villgs
Villages, bi
Toramadam Tako Jisui-
N.hP.
B.
Doc. 1924
Kuse, Kawaclii Kuse, Kawaohi
chi (Wild Tabby Ba.nboo
villagos,
Willas, Mani
Hnbitat)
cun
Oterayori-u-sli
H.S.
H.. pr. 1927
Kaohi
Kachi village,
(Ruins of Otarayori
villago
Jodo-un
Shrin)
Futaniyayan Kofun
H.S.
H.S. pr. 1927
Takntsuld
Takatsuld village
(Futamiyavap Old Mound)
Village
Akaiva-sun
Manpukoi Tooiji yoshi
H.S.
HS.
Ota Village
Ota Village,
(Ruins o Tl n in
waiwa-oun
Manpuku ij: (Temple)
Garyu Mc su
N.H.P.
B.
Junu 1928
Kgato
Kagato Tomship
(Garyu Pine Treu)
Toinship
Jako-gun
Bodaijin, Kosonu
N.H.B.
B.
Bodaiji
Toyonami village:
(Ginko Treo in Bodaiji)
(Tomple)
Katsuta-gun
(Tunple)
Soa To-sto
H.S.
H.S. Fub. 1928
Kamo
mo Villago.
(Ruins of S Towor)
vill
Tsukubo-un
Magano Iclirizuke
H..ș.
H.S. Mar. 1928
Makano
Malono Villago,
(Magane Mile Stone)
village
Xibi-gun
Kabutogani Hansholucli N.H.P.
Z.
nura
Kanaura Totmolip.
(Tacl.ypluus (Crib) Hibi-
Tarnship
oda-gun
bat)
Yata Otsuka Xofun
H.S.
H.S.. Dee: 1929
Yata
Yata Villago,
(Oteuki id Mound in Yata)
village
Xibi-un
Yottsu-zuk Kofun
H.S,
H.S. Doc. 1929
Yatsuka
Yatsuka Village.
(Yottsuzuka Old Mound)
villgo
Maniwa-gun
Takamatsujo-shi fu Mizu- H.S.
HS.
Takamatsu
Taka natsu Town
zuma Clikitoi-ato (Ruine
Towmslip
ship. Oishi
of Takmatsu Castle and
Oishi
Villago, 
Ruins of River Bank break
village
which Flooded the Castlu)
Musa Otsuke Kofun
H.S.
H.S. Fub. 1930
Takatsuld
Takatsuk vi
(Musa Otsaka Old Mound)
villago
Akmiwa-gun
Danbadald
s.s.
S.July 1930
ntsuyama
(Xmbajatur Fall)
Tomship
...
1930

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.91)
mauri-mura Enkatsu
N.H.r.
.1930
Kusaxn
Reisen (Intormittent
village
Sprin' in Kusana Village)
Oni tak
s.s.
S.S. 0ot. 1930
Uto. Mikcwa
Uto, Mikaw
(Oniataka hill)
villgos
villes, d
Shimotsui das. iin-yam S.S.
S.S. Nov. 1930
Shimotsui
Shimoisui Town-
(Mt. Was..ila in Shimotsui)
Townslip
ship, Yojim-gun
Iva.adani
S.S.
S.S. July 1931
T.nosl.o
Tunoso, Fulm.
(Iwaya Cave Valluy)
Fula Villages
 . 
ami-un
Okutsuki
S.S.
S.S. ..pr. 1932
Outsu
On:.su Villago,
(Chitsu Villy)
villago
Tandgn
Zo-iive
N.E.P.
G.M. July 1932
Min. of
Shimoisui Torn.
(Elph:nt Rock)
hgriculturo
ei, fojim: -
Muiji Tunno Miyisu Ono- HS.
E.S. Nov. 1933
Miyasu
Miyasu V.llaco.
daichijo (Tmporor i ji's
villago
Joo-un
Forner bi la hdarters
in Miyasu)
Meiji Tonno Okay.m
H.S.
!.S. Nov. 1934
Ok:ydma
Kokyo Tomslip.
Anzaisho 'nperor Meiji's
Pruructuro
Oky am City
Place of Fojoura in Olc y)
Meiji Tonno Mitsuishi
H.S.
H.S.
Miisii
Mitcuichs. Tonald
inzaishe (Fmperor iji's
Tounsl.ip
dik-un
Plice of Sojourn in Mitsu-
ishi)
Meiji Tenno Magane Go- 
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1934
Magano
Magone Towmslip
slhokijo oyobi Goko-hyo-
Township
Kioi-mun
jo (Emperor Meiji's Rest-
ins Place and Reviowin
Stand in Magone)
Muiji Tunno Kagato Go- H.S.
H.S.
Kagato
Kacato Townsiip.
Shokijo Enperor Liji's
Township
Jaku-un
Rostin Placo in agto)
Meiji Tunno Yayiyama
H.3.
.. Nov. 1936
Mitsuisli
Mitsuisli Torn-
Gosloki io-ato (Ruins of
Tonship
ship, l-n
Emperor M-iji's Rosting
Place in Yaiyama)
Maiji Tonno Shikan On H.S.
H.S.
2
Kotsu
Motsu Village,
daolijo (Emperor uiji's
villago
Jodo-gun
Former Field Hoadguartors
in Shikan)
Moiji Tunno Nishiokn
H.S.
H.S.
Sugau
Sugau Villago,
Onodaolijo (Emporor Moiji's
Villago
Tsukubo-gun
Former Field Headquarters
Nisioka)
iji Tomo Soya Onoda- H.S.
HS.
Zhmo
Emo Villago.
 (maporor Moiji's
village
Tsulabo
Field Hogdguarters

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.92)
FICATION
no Osikbuse
N...P.
G. Juno 1937. vill
(Osiikmbusu Rock in Og0)
Loutnmi no Monji-iwa
H.S.
H.S. Fob. 1941
Hirakawa
Hirakam
(Monji Idoogrph Rock
villago
Kawa kui
in Kns-ni)
Shiraisli-jim no Yoroi- N.H.P.
G.M. Oct. 1,42
Kminoshi-
Kaminooht
iva (armor Rock on Slirais..i
moto Villago Viile. Soto
Isl:nd)
Shiriis.i-jin
s.s.
S.S. Fob. 1943
(Shiraisli tsland)
ojin-yama
H.S.
H.S. . 1943
Not given
Kpsaoka Towmsh
(t. Ojin)
Yuia jiku
N.H.P.
Z. Juno 1944
Yuanra To.msidp
Suiskuchi (Polypdutes)
Froy Habitat in Yunra)
Hta Hiiji To-at
H.S
H.S. Nov. 1944
Ht g
(Ruins   Tor of
the old. pl i1 Lata)
T:kasli
S.S.
s.s.
Kminoslin.soto
(Pakash o Island)
vil:ago, Oda.gum
HI ROSH
Itsukusnina
H.S.
H.S. Mar. 1923
Scloki-un
(1tsukusi.im: island)
s.s.
ss.
Taishakanno Tani
S.S.
S.S.
Hiroshima
Hiba-zun,
(Taisalkyo) (Taisin
Profocturo
Jinseki-un
ku Villuy)
Tomo Koun
3.S.
S.S. Oct. 1925
Tomo Township.
(Tomo Park)
Nunkuna-un
Sandankyo
S.S.
ss.
Tojochi Village.
(Sandan Valley)
Yainta Village
Yammgata-gun
Moiji 27-8 Non Suneld
H.S.
H.S. Oct. 1926
Moto-macli,
Hirosim Daihonei
Hiroshima City
(Imprial nealquarters in
Hiroslime in the Sino-
Japcnesa Nar (1894-5)
3
Namakujio Saisokuchi
N.H.P.
B. Mar. 1928
Sauzqld
Saezakd-mchi
(Translucent Marine
Township
Hiroshima City
(Lancelot) nim ls
Habitat)
Shimoseno-mura no Oke- N.H.P.
B. ov. 1928
Kishio
Shimoseno
yaki (Giant Zalkova
Shrinm.
Ald-pan
Tree in Shimoseno Village)
Kokutai ji no Musu
N.H.P.
B.
Kokutaiji
Ko-mmohi,
(Camphor Tree in Koka-
(Tumple)
Hiroshima
taiji (Tample)
Misen Gons irin
N.H.P.
2. Dao. 1929
Min. of
Primeval Forost in Misen)
ajia miyu
N.H.P.
Zo
Nov. 1930

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.95)
Ab ri Gunyu Mimon H.S.
H.S. Jeb. 1931
Toy.ohama
(Mehools of Red-throated
villago
Diver Fish)
(Fishery
Guild)
Mitosniro Kofun
HS.
H.S. Apr. 1933
Minamikata
Minmiinta ville
(Mitoshiro Old Mound)
Village
Toyod-
Ren Julau narabini Kan
H.S.
H.S. Junu 1934
Private
Kannabe Tomship.
Sazan Kyat:ku (Ren
Owner
Fulayasu-gun
School and Former House
of Sazan Kan)
Ichinomiya (S.uray
H.S.
H.S. Mar. 1934
abild
Abikd village.
Shi etoshi Kyohei Den-
Village
Astima-un
setsucli) (Ic.inomiya,
believad to be the place
Where Shijetoshi Sakum-
yam: Rised n arny)
Meiji Tenno Hiroshinn N.H.P.
B. Nov. 1934
Min. of
Moto Village,
Anzaisho (Emperor Meiji's
War
Hiroslhima City
Place of Sojourn in
Hiroshim)
Numatamishi mura Ehim
H.S.
H.S. Dec. 1935
Numtanisni- Numtanishi villa
 Jis  jonl
villago
Toyode-un
(Soutnern-m ot Limit Zone
of Wild Ehi  Iris)
Meiji Tenno Kusctsu Go- H.S.
H.S. July 1936
Private
Kusa tsu-azuma-mao
shokeijo-ato (Puins of
eamer
Hiroshim City
Emporor Meiji's Resting
Place in Kusatsu)
ki Kokubunji-ato
H.S.
H.S. Sept. 1936
Nishijo
Nishijo Village,
(Ruins of Aki Kokubunji)
Village
Kno-un
(Tumple)
Rai Sanyo Kyosiitsu
IH.S.
H.S.
Hiroshima
Fukuro-machi,
(Livin; Room of Sanyo
Prefecture
Hiros..im City
R=1)
Tadanoumi Hachimn Jin- N.H.P.
B.
Hachimmn
Tadanoumi Tormshi
ja S.aso (Bushes at
Shrine
Toyoda-gun
Haciman Shrine in Tadano-
umi)
Meiji Tenno Gyokojo
H.S.
H.S. July 1940
Hiroshima
Kaminagarogawa-
Asano Izumi Tei (House
Prefecture
mchi, Hiroshim
of Izumi Asano Visited
City
by Emperor Maiji)
Shukukei-en
S.S.
s.s.
(Shukikei Garden)
Koriyama Joshi (Ruins
H.S.
H.S. u. 1940
Private
Yoshida Township.
Koriyam Castle)
Ormer
Takada-gun
toce-mura no Yumikm- N..P.
B.
Nov. 1944
Not given
Chitose Village
Matsu (Yumikalke Pine
in Chitose Village)

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.94)
Komatauji no Matsu
N.H.P.
B.
n3. 1940
(Pine Tree at Kamatmu-
ji (Tample)
YAMGUCHI
Yashiro-mura Tsuru
N.H.P.
2.
Mar. 1921
Yashiro
Yashiro
Toraichi (Crine Habitat
village
Dmnge
in Yashiro Village)
Kintaibas:i
S.S.
S.S. Mar. 1922
Imauni City Iwaami City
(Kintai Bridgo)
Akiyosli-do
N.H.P.
GM.
Aldyoshi
Addyoshi vill
(akyoshi Cave)
village
Min-gin
Akgo-mura Kgekiyo-ana N.H.P.
GM.
Akago village.
(Kgeliyo Cave in
village
Mino-un
Akago Village)
Shokasonjuku
H.S.
H.S. Oct. 1922
Hagi City
Hagi City
(Shokason School)
Yosida Shoin Yushu no
H.S.
H.S.
Kyutaku (House where
Shoin Yoslhida vas for.er-
ly imprisoned)
Kawatana-mura Kusu no
N.H.P.
B.
Kavatana
Kavntana villago
Mori (Campor Forest
village
Toyora-un
in Kevatane village)
Ozori-machi Nai Jisui N.H.P.
B.
Ogori
Ogori Tomship
Hokugonki (Northern
Tamship
Yoshikd-
Limit Zone of Ruscuss
ouleatus (Evergreen
Shrubs) in Kosato Village)
Nagato Kyo
S.s.
S.S. Mar. 1923. Yamaguchi
Abu-un
(Nazato Valley)
Profecture
Kyona-mura Nakaodo
N."P.
GM.
syowa
Kyowa Village.
(Nakao Cau in Áyowa
village
Mine-gun
villae)
Akago-mura Taisho-do
N.H.P.
GM.
Akago
Akago Village.
(Taisho Cave in akago
village
Mine-gun
village)
Hagi Hansharo
H.S.
H.S. Dec. 1924
Hagi City
Hagi City
(Old Furnce in Hagi)
Iwakuni City Imakuni City
Shirohebi Suisokuchi
N.H.P.
2.
(Habitat of the White
Snak)
Myojin Ike
N.n.P.
Z.
Hagi City
Hazi City
(Myojin Pond)
Kyowa-mura Kashino
N.".P.
B.
Oot. 1925
Kyowa
Kyova VIla
Mori (eak Forest in
village
Zyowa Village)
Joeiji Tui-an
H.S.
H.S. Feb. 1926
Miyano
(Garden at Josiji (Temple)8.S.
83.
village
Bofu City

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.93)
ayaa Tao ibana
N.H.P.
B.
Feb. 1926
Hngi City
Jisei Hokgenkmi (Nor-
thern Limit Zone of Wild
Mandarin Orane Tree in
Isayama)
Sekichikei
S.S.
S.S. Oct. 1926
Jishi-ichi
Nishi-ichi Town-
(Sukichu V.:lluy)
N.H.P.
G.M.
Toinslip
ship. Toyora-un
4ami-jimn
N.H.P.
GM.
Sunzald
Senza ld Townsldp.
(Aami Islind)
S.S.
S.S.
Tonship.
Kayoi village.
Kayoi Village
Otau-un
Saiwei no M:tsu
N.H.P.
B.
Luga
Kuge Township.
(Sc immi Pine Tree)
Toinship
Oshima-un
Manju Jurin
N.H.P.
B.
Shimonoseki
Shimonoseki City
(Manju Forest)
City
Knju Jurin
N.H.P.
B.
Oct. 1926
(Kanju Forest)
Ohibi Natsunilon Gorju
H.S.
H.S. pr. 1927
Senzald
Senzakd Tomship.
(Orijinal Clineso Citron N.H.P.
B.
Toins.ip
Otsu-zun
Tree in C)
Tavara-jim:
S.S.
S.S. Junc 1927
Mukatsula
Mulntsula Villax
(Taware Iskand)
N.Ji.P.
G.M.
Villa
Otsu-un
Hirakait. no Osusi
N.H.P.
B.
June 1928
Hirakawa
Hirakave Village,
(Giant Jap: uso Coder
Village
Yosliki-un
in Hirakava)
Hosenji no Sliniaku
N.H.P.
B.
Yann ucii
Ynguchi City
(Chineso Blick Pine and
City
ak at Hosenj: (Taaple)
Kawalmmi-mura Mukugo
N.H.P.
B.
Kwn kami
Kam kami Villago.
Gunsoi (Rose of Sharon
'Village
∴bu-zun
in Xewmkcni Villge)
Aldyoshidai-yam no Ji- N.H.P.
G.M. Feb. 1928
Kyow
Kyown Village,
zokudai (Jijoku (Hell)
'village
Mine-gun
Plateau on Akiyosidai
Hill)
Susavan
S.8.
S.S.
Mar. 1928
Susa Town-
Susa Towmship.
(Susa By)
N.H.P.
GM.
ship
bugun
Daikokoka Konori-di
N.H.P.
Z.
Kogushi
Kozushi Township,
(Bat Cave in Daiko
Tonship
Toyora-gun
valloy)
Mishima-ushi sanchi
N.n.P.
Z.
Supt. 1928
Mishima
Mishima Village,
(Brsedin3 Grounds of
village
bu
the Mishima Ox)
hima-mrc no 
N.H.P.
Z.
shi (Tortoise
ia Mishima Village)
H.S.
H.S. Dao. 1929
Shimonosekd

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.91)
Otana Sugi
N.H.P.
B. . 1930
(Otam Japanese Cedar)
Saça-mura no Meoto
N..
B. Nov. 1930
Saga
Matau (Two Pine Trees
village
in Sae Villae)
Kogushi-mncli Ehine
N.H.P.
B.
Ogusini
Ogusni
yame Jisi Nunsunki
village
Toyora
(Southern Liait Zono of
Wild Iris in Ko;ushi
To.mship)
Yokono Kaki Genju
N.H.P.
P.
Fob. 1931
Shimonosuld
(Oriinal Persianon Tree H.S.
HS.
City
in Yokono)
Kido Koin Kyutak
II.S.
H.. Mar. 1932
Hai City
Lvi City
(Former Houso of Koin
Kido)
Ito Inhubun Kyutakau
H.S.
Ha. Mr. 1932
(Former E  so of H a-
bun Ito
Gabizen Jrin (Forest
N.li.P.
B:
pr. 1932
Murozumi
Murozwai Towmsh
on Jabizan (Hill)
Tns.ip
Kumag-n
Yoda Garyu vmo
N....P.
B.
Apr. 1933
Yoda
Yolr. V: llago.
(Garyu Plum Tree in Yoda)
villago
Fe sn
Rokurento no Umo Gon- N.H.P.
BM. Juno 1934
Slimonoseld
Shimcnocold-Ct
Kugan (Micn Basalt for-
City
mation ay Robirunto)
Inya Knon Kutsu
N.H.P.
GM. Juno 1934
Kuwano
Kurrano Villago
(Cave of Iinya Kannon
village
Kug.-yun
(Buddla Cave)
Takasugi Shinsakai Hake H.S.
H.S. May 1934
Yoshida
Yoshida Villa
(Tomb of Shinaaku Takasugi)
villago
eun
Kabe-shima U Toraichi
N.H.P.
Z.
Kantama
t cna village
(Khbo Island Habitat
villgo
Toyora Villago
of Cormorant)
Ryusu no Suiofuki
N.H.P.
B.M. .1934
Utauga
Utsuca Villago,
(Wator Spouts of Ryugu) S.S.
S.s.
village
Otsu~gun
Meiji Tunno Yamaguchi
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1934
Yanguchi
Kamiunorei
Anzaisho (Emporor Maiji's
City
Yamaguohi Ci
Place of Sojourn in Yam-
guaid)
Meiji Tenno Mitajiri
H.S.
H.S.
Privato
Bofu City
Emperor Maiji's Place of
Owner
Sojourn in Mitajiri)
Meiji Tenno atara An- H.S.
HS.
maisho (Emperor Me!ji's
Place of Sojourn in Tatara)
Meiji Tanno Ouchi Gosho H.S.
.
Ouchi
sholei j EmperosMeifrte Ros ting
Fillage
Pkée in Ouchi)
De0. 2904
ild Peach Tree in

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.93)
a no kmshi
N.H.P.. B. Doo. 1934.Isa Town-
(Giant Oak in Kawara)
Slip
Tokasa (Sakura)
ss.
s.s.
Tokausa
(Tokase (Cherry True)
village
Abu-3un
Shikiyama Joshi
H.S.
H.S. Juno 1935
Bofu City
Bafu City
(Ruins of Shikiyann
Castle)
Sekijo-zan Kagomo-ishi
H.S.
H,S.
Shiota
Shiota Village,
(Kngo Rock on Sekijo-
Villge
Kumge-gun
zan (Mountain)
Omura Masujiro Hake
H.S.
H.S. Dec.. 1935
Susonji
Yoshikd-
(Tab of Msujir Quro)
village
Noya Isi.iburo (Stone
H.S.
H.S.
Yuno
Yuno Villagu,
Bath-tub at Noyn)
Village
Saba-un
Aomi-jinn Kujira no Haki H.S.
H.S.
Kayoi
Kayoi Village,
(Tomb of Whale in Ami
Village
Otsu-gun
Is land)
Yamaguchi Gunjibot u
N,H.P.
B.
Y:maguchi
Yanguchi City
Hasseichi Liciola
City
Cuchi. Otoshi,
Cruciata (Fly)
Hircka, Miyano,
Habitat in Yma guc i)
Villagos,
Yoshikd-gun
Kwaslita sari--fu
N.r...
B.
Iwakuni City
Iwaluni City
Shirasagi. Toraichi
(Snowy Heron Habitat in
Kwaslita and sarifu)
Kibu no Oiwago (Group
N.H.P.
G.M.
Asc-gun
Kishibo Village,
of Huze Rocks at G be)
isa-gun
Manso no Oiwago (Group N.h.P.
G.M.
Manso
Manso Village,
of Huge Rocks at Manso)
Village
s-çun
Minamikawa Kajikaeru N.H.P.
z.
Supt. 1936
Kuvano
Kuwene Village,
Seisokucl. (Frog (Poly-
Village
Kuga-gun
pedates) Habitat in
Minamikaa)
Meiji Terno Gyokojo
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1936
Shimonoseld
Shimonosekd City
City
Rokurenic Todai (Rolau-
rento Light-house Visited
by Emperor Meiji)
Meiji Tenno Chofu An-
H.S.
H.S. Dec. 1936
Private
Shimonoseld City
saisho (Emperor Maiji'a
Ovmer
Place of Sojourn in Chofu)
yu Hagi-han Ofunagura H.S.
H.S.
Higashi-hamsald,
(Former Shiphouse of
Hagi City
Hagi Clan)
Kayama no Jishaa N.H.P. G.M. Juna 1937
Susa
Susa Township
 (nmetic Stone
Tomship
bu-in
in Susa)
.S.
H.S.
Bofu City

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.91)
AR-231-0R-2-1
PRASON
CLASSI-
FOR
FICATIGE DBIG.DES.
Sado-gava Sekimisu
H.S.
H.S. Ju 1937
Yreak
(Dam on River Sado)
village
Meiji Temo heen
H.S.
Hs.
Privata
Uta ill
Goshokaijo (maperor Meiji(s
O.mer
saba-gun
Restin? Place in Ktausc k)
Maiji Tanno Sablyax To- H.S.
H.S.
Uta Villago
go Gosi.okaijocto (Ruins
of Emperor Maiji's Rustin
Place in Sabayama Ridgo)
Noiji Teano Tonyaguchi
HS.
H.S.
Bofu City
Shinden
Goshokaijo-ato (Ruins
Bafu City
of Emperor Maiji's Rust-
ing Place in Tonyaguchi)
Muiji Tunno Kosaba Go-
H.S.
HS.
Kosaba
Kosaba Villago.
shokaijo-ato (Ruins of
villago
Yoshikd-gun
Emperor Moiji's Rostin:
Place in Kosaba)
Maiji Tanno Haginoo
H.S.
H.S. Das. 1998
Shimonoseld
Muku-no,
Goshokaijo-ato (Ruina of
City
Shimonoseki City
Emparor Meiji's Resting
Plose in Haginoo)
Kibo no Dai-sendan
N.H.P.
B.
Hagi City
Toubald.
(Giant Bead Tree in Kibe)
Hagi City
Shimpu Goryu no Matsu
N.".P.
B.
Doe. 1938 Ivakuni City Imakuni City
(Goryu Pins Tree in
Shimpu)
Hanaoka no Shinhaku
N.H.P.
B.
Kudamctsu
Dudamatsu City
Chinuse Black Pino and
Ci ty
Oak in Hanaokm)
Kuruso-zan
S.s.
...1940
Not given
Toaoi Village,
(Mt. Kurusa)
Toypra-gun
Shofukuji no Kaizukd
!AP
B. 3 1941
Yamoguchi City
(Stall Mound et Sharwv
ji (Tampla)
Murata Seifu Kutaka
H.S.
H.S.
Misund
Misumi Village.
oyobi Hhkm (Formmr Houso
Village
otau-sun
and Tanb of Soinu Murata)
NakayanTadamitsu Hile
H.S. . Dac. 1941
Shimonosold
Shimonosekd City
(Tomb of Tadamitsu
City
Nakayama)
Aradani no Okaedo
N.h.P.
B.
Yamaguohi
Yanguchi City
(àiant aplo in
City
Valley)
Khwakami no Yusu oyobi N.H.p.
Kanza inmi
Xavakami village
Ncntan Jiseichi (Wild
Village
Abu-un
Citron and Nandin
Habitat im Muakami)
Yamnguchi no Sandan
N.H.P.
B.
Yaunguehi
Yamguchi Oi
(Bead Tree im Yaaguchi)
City
yasoji no Kosonju
N.H.P.
B.
July 1942
TRoi)

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.91)
RRISON · DATS
CL:SSI-
JOR
ICTIN SILDD.
Tachibanm
B. Man..1922. Ihahibang
Bunton-fimm-Nittcisui- NuhaP.
village
Sholubutsu Gunra la
(Tropicl Plants on Ben-
ton Lsland)
Maruto Towme'dp.
Maruto no Neagari
N.H.P.
B. Des. 1924
Nruto
Touns Lip
Itano-gun
Mateu (Pine Tree (with
roots abovo ground) in
Naruto)
Sakano Village,
Salnno
Sakmno no Neagari
B..
Village
Noga-gun
Matsu (Pine Tres (with
roots above ground)
in Sakano)
aadashima no Noagari
N...
n.
Matsu (Pine Treu (isith
roots above ground)
in ada Ialand)
Kamo Villago
Kmono Okusu (Giant
N...
Oct. 1926
Kamo
villago
Miyoshi-gun
Camphor Tree in Kamo).
Naruto
Noruto Tomahip,
Naruto
3.S. . .. Fob. 1931
Tounship
Miyoshi-
(Naruto Sea Coast)
Payashi
Anyas.i Tomahip,
Hayashi-mchi Dochu
N.H.P.
. May 1934
Township
m-
(Mud Pillar in Hayashi
Tomship)
Tokushime City
S.S.
3.s. Dao. 1941
Tokuslime
Kyu Tokualhim:jo Omto-
Profecture
goten Tei-en (Garden of
Former Tokushima Jastlo
Omote Palcce)
Kozato Tomship,
Dan no Tauka-ara
H.S.-
1E.S. Oct. 1942
Not iven
Mima-gun
(Mound Entraaos in Dan)
Ioiizi Village,
B. Junu 1944
Hirankomadom ZakuraN.H.P.
Mima-gun
(Hirenkomndom Chorry Troo)
Takashi Villago.
B.
Nov. 1944
Chichiho Jiaj: no Xoson- N.HP.
Tasai-gun
ju (Ginko Tree at Chi-
chiho Shri.m)
KG
Kagava Pre- Talamatau City
S.S.
8.s. Mar. 1922
Rimritsu Ko-un
fecture (Min.
(Rinritsu Park)
of Agriculturo)
H.B.t Oct. 1922
Fuchu, Yamm- Fuchi, Yamnouchi
Puchy. Yamanouchi Payo- H.S.
nouchi Tom- Toms.ips, yauta
shi Ruins of Tile Kiln
ships
Township
in Fichu and Yamanouchi)
Fuci.izald
Fuchizakd Town-
Hoshoin no Shinhaku
N.H.P.
B.
Toms hip
ships Shodo-gun
(Chinase Blnck Pino and
Oak (Hoshxin Temple)
Kusakabe Tomaip.
3.s. Mar. 1923 m3
Kmikakayamc (mankakoi S.S.
Prefucture
Shodo-sun
(Mt. Mmikak (mnka
valluy)
iganji no Sotutau
...
B. Doe. 1924
Saiganji
(Tomplo)
Nibu Village.
Shodo-
like Plant (Cyocd)
atgani (Temple)

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.94)
Shirotori no Ubano-
N.H.P.
B. Juna 1928
Shirotori
gashi (Quoruous: Phil-
village
liraeoides) Oak Troe
in Slirotori)
Oji Jinja no Shaso
N.H.P.
B.
Oji Sirine
Mito villa
(S.rubs at Oji Sirino)
Shodo-ain
Sanukd Kolaubunji-uto
i..S.
H.S. Fub. 1928
Hasliok
Hasi oka ville
(Ruins of Sonukd Koku-
villago
yauta-n
bunji Nunnury)
Snuld Kolubunji-to
H.S.
H.S. Mar. 1928
(Buinsr.of Sa uld Koku-
bunji (T-mplo)
Ninomiya Yoshi
H.S.
II.S. ..pr. 1932
Omizugami
Ninaniya villa
(Ruins of Kiln in
Shrino
Mitoyo-yun
Ninomiye)
Is..ifun Sisuki-zuk
H.S.
E.S. June 1934
Min. of
Takamtsu City
(Is .ifune Ston Mound)
igriculture
Meiji Tenno Maru
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1934
Min. of
Ichibancho
Anzaislo-cto oyobi Tatu-
Wir (Maru-
Marugam City
nono (Ruirs and structure
gam City)
of Empuror Mei ji's Placo
of Sojourn in Maru.)
Tashina
H.S.
H.S.
Taka.ntsu
Takamatsu City
(Yashim (Island)
N.hor.
GM.
City (Min.
of riculture)
Enjoto no Kyujo Noruito N.H.P.
G.M. Dec. 1934
Knnonji-
Knnnonji-mohi
(Round Goolo,ical For-
machi
Mitoyo-machi
mntion in Enjoto)
Kindan Ko-on
S.S. Dac. 1936
.
(indan Park)
Moiji Tonno Marugane
H.S.
H.S. Jun 1938
Maruga.m
Nishihirayama
Gojoriku nrabini Gojo-
City
Tonsiip.
senchi (Emperor Meiji's
Marugame City
Landins and Boardin;
Place at Marugane)
Kinrin Koun
S.S1
S.S. Supt. 1939 Min. of
Tsuda Tanship.
(Kinrin Park)
Hamo ffairs Okam-gun
Tsuda Tonslip
Kinus. ima oyobi Maru-
N.H.P.
GM. Fob. 1940
Nibu
Nibu Villago.
.game-jima (Kinu Ialand
Villago
Okava-gun
and Marugime Island)
Kanouragoe Norenprophin N.H.P.
G.M. July 1941
in. of
Shirotorihon
Ganmiycka (Nolanprophy
griculture
Towmship.
Stone Dyke in Kanouragoo)
eknwa-gun
Ueta no Matsu
N.H.P.
B. Oot? 1942
yot given
Toldua 
(Pine Trse in Uuta)
Mitoyo-

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.93)
Iyo Kokubunji To-ato
H.S.
H.S. Mar. 1921
Sakurai
Saicurai
(Ruins of Tover of Iyo
Tormship
Ohi-
Kokubunji (Tumple)
Misa kd-mura koju
N.H.P.
B.
Misald
Misald Village
(Fiuis Wightiana)
village
Nishiuwa-
Unusunl Trou in Misaki
villgo)
Shimoh ku no Tilku
N.H.P.
B. Doc. 1924
Si.ohaku
Shohaku Village.
(Ibuki)(Gi:nt Ock in
villago
Uma-gun
Shimohnku)
Fukuok: Hacliiaan Jinja N.H.P.
B.
Fuka k
Tanbara Township,
(Jus) (Foliago at
Hac.,imn
Shuso-un
Fukuoki Hac. ian Shrino)
Sirino
Osirinji no Kinmoku-
N.H.P.
B. ..pr. 1927
Os.irinji
Ioke Villago,
(Tumple)
rai-un
sei (Goldon Frgrnt
Olive Treo at Oslirin-
ji (Templ)
Caogokei
S.S.
S.s. Fob. 1933
Min. cf
Samakama villago,
(Omoo Valley)
riculture
Kniukana-n
Ehix Pro-
focture
Yakaun no Ok tsu un
N.H.P.
GM. May 1934
Yanadani
Yamdani Village
village.
Kniukna-
(Group of Pot-h)los in
Yakma)
Uvajima-jo
H.S.
H.S. Dec. 1937.
Pri yato.
Maruno-uchi,
(Uwajima Castlo)
O.mer
Uvajima City
Hashihma
S.S.
S.S. May 1938
Has hihma
Hashihama Tomshi
(Has hiham Const)
Toaip
Hakata village,
Ochi-gun
Tobe Tauldage Danso
N.H.P.
G.M.
Tobo.
Tobe Tormship,
(Elovated Lislocated
Tomship
I.y0-3un
Rock in Tobo)
Shijimaga Hara
S.S.
S.S. Feb. 1941
Min. of
Salarai Towmship,
(Shijima Hare (Plain)
H firs
Ochi-un
Salaurai Ton-
s:ip
Sunbild no Sckura
S.S.
S.S. Dao. 1941
Nibukn
Nibukamn village.
(Cherry Tree in Senbikd)
village.
Cohi-gun
Omi-shima
S.S.
S.S. Supt. 1942
Not given
Miyaurc Village.
Ochi-un
(Omi Island)
Haohiman Jinja no Ibukd .N.H.P.
B. Feb. 1943
Ibukt-mmchi,
Uwajima City
(Chinase Junipor Treo
in Hachiman Shrina)
Hanji-ato
H.S.
H.S. Mar. 1944
Komatsu Toarnship.
(Ruins of Hoanji (Tumplo)
Shuso-un
Lehi Mosuku Hasseichi N.H.P.
B. Jun 1944
Knwalami villago.
Onsen-
dehi, Unusual Soa-
(Mamaaystus Dacipiuns)

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.91)
eLssze
PICATION
Yawatayama
s.s.
3.8. Nov. 19!4.
Not given
(Mt. Yawata)
Iwaya
s S.
S.S.
(Stone Cave)
Koivnya
S.S.
S.S.
Kawase
(Old Ston C.vo)
Kamiulon
Noshim Jusl.i
H.S.
HS.
Miyakubo Villa
(Ruins of Nosi.im Castlo)
Ochi-un
KOCHI
Taclib-na
N.H.P.
B.
Mcr. 1921
Murotozaki
Murotosald
(Mandarin Orano Troc)
Tornship
ship. Ald-un
Seisho-mur ko Jisoi- N.H.P.
B.
Not given
Shimizu Toima
chi (Wild Ficus Wi htiana)
Hata-gun
Baninn Troe Habitat in
Soisho Vill:go)
Tosa Kokubunji-ato
H.S.
H.S. Cct. 1922
Kokufu
Kolafu village.
(Ruins of Tosa Xkubun-
villo
Nagaoka-gun
ji (Teap)
by no Kus
N.H.P.
B.
Duc. 1924
Su
Onoço Village.
(Canphor Teu in Oya)
Sirino
Takaoka-un
Sugi no Osusi
N.L.P.
B.
Yasak
Osugi Village,
(Giant Japnuso Codar
Sirino
Nagaoka-gun
in Sugi)
Iogido no S. ida Gunrala
N.H.P.
B.
Oct. 1926
Ixi
Iogi Villago,
(Fern Habitat in Iogi
Vill
d-un
cav)
Hiraishi no Chichi-icho N.H.P.
B.Junu 1928
Jizoji
Jizoji Village
(Clichi Ginko Troe in
Villago
Tosa-gun
Himishi)
Odazake no aipi Matsu N.H.P.
B.
Kusakn
Kusaka Villago
(Twin Pines in Odazaka)
vVillage
Tom-
Yatsuka.ura Kusumaru- N.H.P.
B.
Soga
Yatauka villago,
bachi Jieeichi (Kusa-
Shrine
Hata-n
Alsophila Mortensiana)
Unusual Greas Habitat)
Irino Matsubara
S.S.
S.S. Fab. 1928
Min. of
Irino Village,
(Irino Pine Grove)
Lgriculture
Hata-gun
Muroto Misakd a-Nettai- N.H.P.
B. Mar. 1928
Kochi Pro-
Murotosald Town
sui Jurin oyobi Kaigan
fecture
ship, Ld-sun
Shokubutsu Gunrak
(Forgst of Sub-tropial
Plants and Grogarious
Sea Coast Plants at
Muroto Point)
Muroto Misaki
S.S.
8.S. Juno 1928
Kobhi
Muroto
(Muroto Point)
Profocture.
Tomship.
Hie Haiji To-ato
.S.
H.S. Junb' 1934
Koafu
Maine of Tower of old
village
pla in íta)

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.93)
N.H.P.
G. Dc. 193%
Ryuga-do
(tyuga Cave)
Proserving
Soioty
Baizenji Tui-on
s.s.
S.s. Dac. 1935
Suigonji
Sazawe Tommek
(Garden at Saigenji)
(Temple)
Takmoka-gan
(Tample)
Jodaiji Toi-en
S.S.
S.s.
Jodaiji
(Garden at Jodaidi)
(Timple)
(Tumple)
Chikurinji Ti-en
S.S.
s.s.
Chikrinji
Godaisan Villago,
(Garden at Chikurinji)
(Tample)
agok-
(Temple)
Takoichi Hanpeita Kyu-
H.S.
H.S. Supt. 1936 Sanri
Sanri village,
taku oyobi Haka (Former
villago
Nagaoka-gun
House nd Tomb of Han-
pita Takəichi)
Koinosode no Aii Matsu N.H.P.
July 1942
Oshino
Oshino Village,
(Twin Pinus at Koinosode)
Village
kagami-gun
Tunjin no Osui
N.H.P.
B.
Fob. 1943
(Giant Jap noso Coder
in Tunjin)
Sagava no Olasu
N.H.P.
B.
Fob. 1943
Not given
Sagaza Township.
(Giant Camphor Tree in
Takmok-gun
Sg)
Mikido-geha Suisokuchi
N.H.P.
Z. A. 1943
Fudeyam-machi,
(Milndo Srrllov-tail
Haruno-mchi,
Butturfly Habitat)
Tonjin-mchi,
Kochi City
Niida no Hirohachisin- N.H.P.
B.
 1943
Niida Village,
nokd (Hirohacl:isha Water
Taleokn -gun
Plants (Laver) In Niida)
Tani Shigoto Haki
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1944
Okusuno Village,
(Tomb of Shijato Tani)
kagami-gun
rosahan Hodai-ato
H.S.
H.S.
Suackd To:mslip.
Ruins of Battory of
Taknoka-gun
sa Clan)
JOZ4
d-shi
H.S.
H.S.. Mar. 1921
Mizuld
Mizuld Villaze,
 of Mizuld Castla)
village,
Ono Village.
Ono Village.
Chikuslii-gun
Dasaifu-ato
H.S.
H.S.
Mizuld
Mizuki Village,
(Ruins of Dazaifu)
villago
Chikshi-
Miohirinji Kafun
N.S.
H.S. Mar. 1922
Kurume
Iclikyo villogs.
(Nichirinji Old Mound)
City
Kurume City
joriuma Krun
HS.
H.S.
Nagamino
Nagamino Villoge,
riume Old Mound)
village
Yame-un
shigesada Kotun
H.S.
1s.
Miyuldi
gemada Old
viilago

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.90)
Dasaifu Jinju no Kusu N.H.P.
B.
Mar. 1922
Dasaifu
(Camphor Treu at Dazaifu
Sirine
Shring).
Yubuta no Mori (Kusu) N.E.P.
B.
Umi Shrine
Uini T
Koromokkro Muri (Kusu)
(Yubuta Forest (Canphor
Trues) Koraaokak Forest
(Camphor Truus)
Honjo no Kusu
N.H.r.
B.
Okusu.
Kamiairoi villa
(Cmphor Tree at Honjo)
Slrino
Chilaijo-gun
Clikuzen Kokubunji-t H.S.
H.S. Oct. 1922
Mizuki
Mizuki Villa
(Ruins of Chilazen ωku-
villagu
Chilushf-gun
bunji (Tnplo)
Kokubu Gayo-shi
IHi.S.
Hi.S.
(Ruins of Tile Kiln in
Kolabu)
Tond: G yo-shi
H.S.
H.S.
Tonpoda
TOmoeda Village.
Ruins or Tilo Kiln in
villge
chiio
Tomooda)
Taukehaneauki K fun
h.S.
H.S.
Miyuld
Miyuld Village
(Tsuki ule ld Mund)
villago
Ukiha-gun
Eihikozan n) Onisu;i
NT.P.
B.. Doc. 1924
Min. of
Hikosan Village.
(Oni Japinese Codar
crisulturo
Tgam-un
in Mt. Elliko)
Oldnsiim. Gunshirin
N.H.P.
B. nct. 1926
Oshina
Oshima Villago.
(Primevel Forest in
Villago
Munakata-gun
Okinos.i.n)
Kukiniya-mur no Konnyo- N.H.P.
B. . apr. 1927
Kugumiya Villago
dako (Komyo Baabo
skun
Grove in Xuki iya Vill g)
Koshozan Tauzo Gensi.irin N.H.P.
B.
Min. of.
Kanialdz:kd. villa
(Priiwval Forest of Box
riculture
Lakwro-un
Tre on Mt. Ko)
Sn Villege,
Ka'oun
Kurok no Fuji
N.H.P.
B.
Susano
Kurok. Towmship.
(Wistari: in Kurokd)
Shrino
Ya-un
Marukunyamm Kofun
H.S.
H.S. Feb. 1928
Susenji
Susanji village
(Marukumayam Old Mound)
viliago
Itoshima-gn
Hinook Kxun
H.S.
H.S.
Yavata
Chitoso Villago
(Hinooka Old Mound)
Shrine
Uldha-gin
Kyu Kisulibo Tui-an
s.s.
s.s.
Privato
Hikosan Villag
(Garden of.Former Dsokibo)
Oupox.
Tagawa-n
Tao ibanayama Kusu Gen- N.H.P.
B.
Min. of.
Tachibann
siirin (Primeval Forest
agriculturo
Esuya-gun
of Camphor Troes on Mt.
Tachibana)
Kiyomisu-dera Honbo
8.s.
S.8. pr. 1929
Xiyomisu-dora
Tui-un (Garden of Main
(Tapple)
mbla of diyomisu)

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.94)
ako Borui (Fort
HS.
H.S. Mar. 1931 Fuluoke City
Brested against Monyolian
Invasion)
rulzoka Cit
Mitsuld Kofun
H.S.
N.S. Oct. 1931
Daizenji
Daisonji Towmshis
(Mitsuld Old Mound)
Township
Mizuma-gun
Gongunzuka Kofun
NS.
H.S.
(Gongenzula Old Mound)
Raizan Kanigono-ishi
H.S.
H.S. Mar. 1932
Rizan,
Raizan, Nagaito
(Kami gome Stone at
Nagaito
villagos.
Rizan)
villages,
Itoshima-
(Konpira Shrine)
Ono Joahi nambini
H.S.
H.S. July 1932
Umi, Dazaifu Umi Tomship.
Shioji-ato (Ruins of Ono
Tomships.
Kasuya-n,
Castle and Shioji (Tumple)
Mizuld
Dazaifu Tomship,
Villago
Mizuld Village.
Chikshi-gun
Furutsuki Yoko-ana
H.S.
H.S. Oct. 1932
Furutsuld
Furutsuld Villag
(Cavurn in Fuiutsuki)
villago
Kurato-un
Muiji Tenno Kurune Dai- H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1933
Fuluoka
Ryogao, Kyo
honoi (Emp ror Meiji's
Profocture
Tonships,
Formor Head uarturs in
Shinoycma-gun
Kurwne)
Meiji Tenno Kuruao n-
H.S.
H.S.
Kurum City
Minmi-kamaui-
zaisho (Emperor Meiji's
mchi, Kurun Ci:
Placu of Sojourn in Kurume)
Maiji Tunno Okyam Ono- H.S.
H.S.
Okayama
Okyam Village,
dachijo (Emporor Meiji's
village
Yama-gun
Former Hendquartors in
Ok.yama)
Maiji Tunno Fujita Ono- H.S.
H.S.
Shimohiro-
Shimohirokmwa
dachijo (Emperor Meiji's
kown Villgo
Fillcgo, Yamo-gu
Former Field Headyuartors
in Fujita)
Maiji Tenno Kamorino
H.S.
H.S.
Kurumo City
Higashi-ashihar
Onodachijo (Enperor Maiji's
machi, Kurume
Former Eia ld Hoadyuartors
City
in Kamorino)
Nagataru no Gan Kounmo N.H.P.
G.M. Jun 1934
Ima juka
Imajúki vill
Pugmatite Ganmyaku
villago
Itoshim-gun
(Pezmatite Dyko Contain-
ing Red-Mica in Nagataru)
Najimm no Shoseki
N.H.P.
GM. May 1934
Najima
Tatara Village,
(stone in Najima)
Shrine
Kasuya-gun
Moiji Temo Arakd An-
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1934
Arald
rad village
maisho oyobi Gokmhyojo
Village
Shisumn-gun
ror Maiji's Place of
and Roviewing
Dos. 1934

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.92)
∴R-231-CR-B-1
RESON DTE
CL.SSI- .FOR
NAVE
FICLTION DESIG.DESIG.
Chinzei-mura no Ktsura N.H.P.
Doc. 1934
Chinsoi
Chinses
(Judas Trou in Chinzei
village
ho
Village)
Dazaifu Jinja no Hiro- N.H.P.
B. Junu 1935
Dazaifu
Dazcifu vill
inchislnnoki (hirohmclhi-
Sirine
Chikshi-gun
sha Watar Plnta (Lavur)
at Dazaifu Sirine)
Sonbutsu Shonyudo
N.H.P.
G.M. Doc. 1935
Higashitani
Hiashitani vla
(Sunbutsu Stalactito
villago
xika-un
Cv)
Gozn Kun
HS.
H.S. Supt. 1936
Obas
Obaso Villaga.
(G..ozan Old Mound)
village
Miyako-un
Ozuk. Kufun
H.S.
H.S. Jun 1937
isun
Kison Tomshipe
(Ozulk: Old Mound)
Toinship
-
Sukijin-yan Kofun
HS.
H.S. . 1938
Shimohiro-
Shimohirokamn
(Sekdjiny: Old Llbund)
kwa villago
Villago, Ya
Ito Joshi.
H.S.
H.S.
Ito Villago
Ito Village.
(Ruins of Ito Castlu)
Itoshin-un
Ana gahayana Kofun
H.S.
H.S. Supt. 1939
Tobaru
Tobaru Village,
(. Ol Mnd)
village
Chilajo-
Tonohrm To-to
H.S.
HS.
Futsulaichi
Futsukicii Town
(Ruins of Towor at
To..nship
slip. Chikshi-
Tonoiirm)
Funazoya Gunjibotaru
N.H.P.
B. Mar. 194!. Min. of
Hiashiyame Villc
Hasuichi (Firuily
Agriculturo
Sanmon-n
(Luciola Cuciata)
and Ho
Habitat at Funazoya)
Affairs
Yanaga Icnirizula
H.S.
H.S. . 1941
Miva Villago Miwa Villago.
(Yanaga Mile Ston)
skra-
Daibu H:iji To-to
H.S.
H.S. Dc. 1941
Min. of
Daibu. Villago,
(Ruins of Towur of Old
Finance
E.ho-yun
Tumplo in Daibu)
Tak ama Hikolaro Haka
HS.
H.S. July 1942
Not given
Tora-maohi,
(Tomb of Hikokuro
Kurumo City
Takn yam)
Shimobaba Kafun
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1944
Kusano Tomship
(ShimobabaOld Mound)
Mitsui-
Kzeum Kaaigom-ishi
H.S.
H.S.
mita Villago,
(Kamigome) Sacred Stone
ho-gun
in Kngoumm)
Goshogatani Kamigama-
H.S.
H.S.
Hiada, bo
ishi (Zhmigom) Saored
villago
Stom in Goshogatani)
Tounship
Korayama K igama-ishi H.S.
H.S.
(maiya) Saarad Stone
in Xxrayam)

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.94)
FICLTICN
Taau Soibyo
H.S.
H.S. Mar. 1921
Taku, Higasli- Takm ville
tala. Nishi-
(Take Tanple of Cenfucius)
taka. Minamitaku.
n tataku Villages
Kwako no Kusu
N.H.P.
B.
Dac. 1938
Wakngi village.
Kishimm-gn
(Camphor Trao in Kawako)
Kotakuji no Sototsu
N.H.P.
B.
Kotalaji
Nagoya Village.
(Tumplo)
Higashi-nctsu-ura
(Palm-lik Plnnt (Cyc:d)
at Kota.uji (Tamplo)
gun
Sazank: Jisoi Holayun-
N.H.P.
B.
Higasii-
Hi pshi-soburi
soburi
villago.
clitai (Nortlern Linit
villago
Sanzakd-gun
Zone of Wild Thea
Sasanqua)
Oata-ishi no Nanatsu- N.H.P.
G.M.
Minato
Minato Villago.
gam (Nan tsug.m)
Villago
Higashi-matsu-ura
Soven Pots in the
oun
Ogata Stono)
Airta no Kosonju
N.H.P.
B.
Oct. 1926
rit
rita Tomship.
(Ginko Tre. i. ..lita)
To.ms..ip
Nisl:imtsu-ura-gu
Treshino S-chanoki
N.H.P.
B.
Oct. 1926
Nishiuro-
Nishi-urcshino
shino Villago Villago.
(Giant Toa Plany in
Fujitsu-zun
Ureshino)
Niji no M tsub.ra
s.s.
S.S.
Min. of
Khratsu City.
(Niji Pine Grovu)
riculture
Kagani village.
Saga Pro-
Hmasakd Towmship
focturo
Hi;asli-matsu-uro
gun
Naoya Joshi narabini
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1926
Na ya
Na;ya Village.
Jin-ato (Ruins of Nagya
villago
Higashi-nxtsu-uro
cun
Castlo and Cumps)
Tas. iro Ota Kofun
H.S.
IHS.
Tas.iro
Tashiro Villago,
(Tashiro Cta Old Mound)
Villago
Miyoki-gun
Fumyoji no Kinmokusoi
N.H.P.
B. pr. 1927
Fumyoji
Furuadn Villago.
(Templo)
Fujitsu-gun
(Goldan Fragrent Olive
Tree in Fumyoji (Tample)
Kurokamiyama Kaneko-
N.H.P.
B.
Sumiyoshi
Sumiyoshi Village
shida Jiscichi (Kaneko
Villago
Kishima-gun
Forn in Mt. Kurokami)
Takagushi Ako Jisei
N.H P.
B.
Juno 1928
Irino
Irino Village.
Holagenc.itai (Northern
Villago
Higeshi-matsu-ura
Limit Zone of wild
gun
Banian Troe)
Ogi no Kusu
N.H.P.
B. Mar. 1928
Saga
Ozi Township.
(Camphor Troo in Ogi)
Profecture
Ogi-gun
Told Yoshi Kotoge H.S.
H.S. Fob. 194•
Taksuchi
Takouchi village.
Futoya Yoshi, Sabi-
village
siima-gun
h fu Hhjiba Nonobara-

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.93)
R-231-CR-8-1
REASON
DT
CLSSI-
FOR
OF
NME
FIC TION DESIG.DESIG.
Taniguchi Kofun
IHS.
H.S. Dao. 1941
Tanahinm
(Tani uchi Old Mound)
villago
NGASI
Takmshim Shuhan Kyu-
HS.
H.S. 0ot. 1922
Not given
Higashi-kojim
taku (Fonar houso of
mehi,
Shuhan Takashim)
Na asakdi City
Hirato Oranda Shokin-
H.S.
H.S.
Hirato
Hirato Township
ato (Ruins of Dutch
Township
Ki to-nctsu-
Establisliant in Hirato)
Dujian Orandn Shokan-
HS.
H.S.
Nayasald
Dojina-machi.
ato (Ruins of Dutch
City
No psekd City
Establislmnt in Dojim)
Siubold Taku-ato
H.S.
H.S.
Narutald-machil
(Ruins of Siebold's Houso)
Nogasnd oity
Kitatakd Suisokuohi
N.H.P.
Z.
Mer. 1923
Min. of
Kaniagata-gun
(loodpocker Habitat)
griculturo
Tatsurayan Genshirin
N.H.P.
B.
Tsutsu Township
(Primval Forest in
Shimoagate-gn
Mt. Tatsurr)
Sumoslhiredake Guns.irin N.H.P.
B.
Kachi vill.go
(Primeval Forost in
Shinoagata-.
Mt. Sumoshiro)
Haninour: Hitotsubatago N.H.P.
B. Jun 1928
Toyosakd
Toyosald Village,
Jisuichi. (Chioranthus
Villgo
mmiagata..
Rutusus) H:bitct of Spucius
of Olive Tree in Waninoura)
Unzendale
S.S.
s.s. Mar..1928
Min. of
Minci talnki-g
(Mt. Unzen)
riculture
(Nagasald
Profocture)
Jigokuchitai Slirodo- N.H.P.
B.
Min. of
Oham Tomship
dan Gunraku (White Enkd-
rioulture
Minami..takma
anthus erulatus( Unusual
Plant Habitat in Jizok
Zono)
Nodalke Inutsuge Gunraka N.H.P.
B.
(Imu Bax Treas in Nodake)
Fukandaka Momiji Jurin N.H.P.
B. Mar. 1928
(Maple Forest on Mt.
Fuanda k)
Harau-muma Numano Shok- N.H:P.
B.
Nagasa ki
butsu Gumrakar (Unusual
Plants at Nuxmo in
Harau Swamp)

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.92)
R.S.
H.S.
0ity
le Shimmbera-Olan)
Imahayamnchi Oshidori N.H.P.
Za. Nov. 1931
Nagmmald
Profocturo
Toraichi (Mandarin Duck
Habitat in Isahaya Town-
ship)
Maiji Tunno Gyokojo
H.S.
H.S. July 1936
Mitsubishi
Kosugo-mhi
Co. Ltd.,
magasnd City
Kosuze Shusenba-ato
Nagasald
(Ruins of Koeuge Dock visited
Dockyard
by Emporor Muiji)
Nanatsuzana Shonyudo
N.H.P.
G.M. Dec. 1936
Nanatsugam
Nanatsugamm Villc
villago
Nishi-sonold-gum
(Nanatsuzama Stalactito
Cavo)
Harc. Joshi
H.S.
.. My 1938
Minami-arin Minamiota
Township
Township.
(Ruins of Hara Castle)
(Sogai Shrim) Minani-tainka-g
XIM MOTO
Sonld nko Kofun
A.S.
H.S.-Mar. 1931 JshinA
Township
Hotaka-un
(Sanldnko (ld Mounds)
Idera Kofun
H.S.
H.S.
Rokuk
villago
Rokaika Village.
Karimas hikd.can
(Idera Old Mound)
Kno Kofun
H.S.
H.S.
Not given
Nishizato Villago
Hotala-gun
(Kanao Old Mound)
Qmura Yoko-ana-yun
H.S.
H.S.
Hitoyoshi
Hitoyoshi Town-
Towmship
ship. Ema-gun
(Group of Caves in Onura)
Ishinuld-mura na-knnon H.S.
H.S.
Not given
Ishinuld Villago.
Tainna-gun
Yoko-ana (ina-linnon Cavo
in Ishinuld village)
Islinukd-mura Nai no
H.S.
H.S.
Yoko-ana-un (Group of
Caves at Nagi in Ishi-
nuld villago)
Chibusan Kofun
H.S.
H.S. Oct. 1922
Hiraogi
Hiraogi Villago.
villago
Kimoto-in
(Chibusan Old Mound)
mwabo Villago.
Mabeta Yoko-ana
H.S.
H.S.
mmvabo
village
Mmoto-gun
(mabuta Cave)
B.
Dao. 1924Mi
Grove of Camphor
in Jujisakidai)
TL
N.H.P.
B.
Dunitsukari
(shrina)
Dedar in Tano)
Doe. 1938
City

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.91)
AR-231-CR-E-1
REASON
CL:SSI-
FOR
NAME
FICTION DESE.DESIG.
Tatsutayan Yaekuchino- N.H.P.
B. pr. 1929
Amanoto
shi Jisuichi (Wild Doublo
City
Cap Jaamino Habitat in
Mt. Tatsuta)
Suizunji Scislhuun
H.S.
H.S. Doc. 1929
Izumi-onchl.
(Suislu-Gardun t Suizun-8.S.
ss.
Kummoto City
ji (Tumplu)
Kenmpto-jo
H.S.
H.S. Fub. 1933
Kunanoto
Honmnru-mmohi
(Kunmoto Castlu)
Ccstlo Pro-
Kuroto City
serviny
Sxioty
Muiji Tunno Oshina An-
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1933
Privc.to
Oshin Tomship
zaișho (Eperor Muiji's
O.mor
Hitaku-Jin
Place f Sojourn in Osl.i.)
ILiji Tunno Miyuld Ono- HS.
H.S. Doc. 1934
Miyuld
Miyuld Villag
dachijo (Euperor Mi ji's
Villago
-ttaa.
Field Huad guarters in
Miyuki)
Huiroku no Ic..isii
N.h..P.
B.
Nankan
Nankan Tomslip.
(Yew Tree in Rsirotu)
Torns ip
Taana-gun
Onos..ito no Os totsu
N.H.P.
B.
Ono Viliago
Ono Villago.
(Giant Pal-lik Plant
Tamana-yun
(Cycnd) in Onoa.ita)
aida Suji
N.H.P.
B.
Kitaokuni
Kitao uni Townshir
(ida Japanuso Codar)
Tomship
-
Shionojo no Kosonju
N.i. P.
B.
(Ginko Trao in Shimo-
nojo)
souhara no Kinnolasi N.H.P.
B.
Dec. 1934
Kannon-do
Otoo Villago.
(Golden Fra mnt Olive
(Temple)
Kaninshikd-un
Trau in souire)
Moiji Tunno Toyofuku
Ii.S.
H.S. Mar. 1935
Toyofuk
Toyofuku Village.
Onodacnijo (Emporor Meiji's
villago
Shinonsikd-un
Fiuld Hoadguarturs in
Toyufuku)
Sen;onzan oyobi Taka-
S.S.
S.S. Junu 1935
Lnzu. & A
Lazu,  Villagos
maito-zan (Mt. Sun;on
villagos
Ankura-n
and Mt. Taka.nito)
Rokuroji-yam
S.S.
s.s.
Fukni
Fukai, Hayaura
(Mt. Rokuroji)
villago,
Vill, 
Hayaura,
kusa-un
Kapura Villages
Union
Takenoknno Okayald
N.H.P.
B.
Suzavara
Minani→oguni
(Giant ZulkovaTreo in
Shrino
Villago, Aso-
Takanokm)
Myokan-ura
s.S.
S.S. .1935
Takam:n
Takahan,
(Myokan-ura (Coast)
N.H.P.
G.M.
Shinoda Villages. vi
(mtashin) N.H.P.
G.M.
Ushibukn
s.S.
'S.S.

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.91)
taj
ss.
S.8. Supt. 1936
Taleato, Ödo
(guatake Mountains)
villagos
gun
Tamioka Kiris.itan Ku-
fi.S.
H.S. Ju 1937
Tanioka
Tomiokm Townsháp
yohi (Towor Erocted for
Tomship
ksaun
the Ruposu of Martyred
C.ristians' Souls in
Took)
Shiside no Okayakd
N.H.P.
B. Dac. 1937
Shofukiji
Hh.n Tormship.
(Giint Zolkova True in
(Tu..plo)
Kminshild-
Shioido)
Shinod no Ksonju
N.Ii.P.
B.
Kunnosl.o
Knnosho Tomshi
(Ginko Truo in Shinoda)
Tins hip
Shino-nshild-
Myokan no Okayakd
N.h.P.
B. May 1938
Sogai Shriho
Hana Tons ip.
(Giant Zulkova Trao in
Kani-nsliki-gun
(Myoken)
Sayara no Tobizuru
N.H.P.
B. u3. 1940
Uchida
Uciida Villago.
(n unusu l Speciu of
viilago
oto-un
Vine (T zuru) in Sa m)
Myoken no Musu
H.H.P.
B.
Torido
Torido Villago.
(Camphor re. in lyokn)
village
Kiluchi-gun
Eda Ana-k nnon X fun
II.S.
H.S. Nov. 1944
Not given
Eda To.nsnip.
(Ana-kannon Ola Mound
Tanna-un
in Eda)
Eda Funan Kofun
H.S.
H.S.
(Funayara Cld Mound
in Eda)
Bzu K.fun, K.uso
H.S.
HS.
Kofun (Bozu Old Mound,
Komso Old Mound)
OITA
Yuhara Hachi.nngu no
N.H.P.
B.
Mar. 1922
Hacinn Village.
Kusu (Camnph or Tree at
Oita-gun
Yulare Hacian Surim)
Kohan Shonyudo
N.H.P.
G.M.
Nano
Nakano Villago,
(Kohan Sc.lactite Cave)
village
Minani-anbo-un
Yabakei
ss.
S.S. Mar. 1923
Oita
Shinogo-gun, Hita.
(Yabakai Valley)
Profecturo
un, Kusu-un, Ua
gun
Matsuyadara no Sotetsu N.H.P.
B. Doo. 1924
Matsuyadora
Hinodo Tomship.
(Palm-lik Plant (Cycad)
(Tuuple)
Hayani-gun
in Matya Tple)
Tabukn no Nuagari-mntsu N.H.P.
B.
Kunisald
Kunisaki Tormship
(Pina (with roots above
Tox.ship
Higashi-anisakd-
ground) in Tabuka)
gun
on Rokrtsu
N.H.P.
G.M.
Kawanobori
Kavenobori Villay
n Cavo)
villago
Ono-gun
H.S.
H.S. July 1932
Private
Hita Towpship
Oner
Hita-jum

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.93)
∴R-231-CR-E-1
CLSSI-
'NAME
FICTION DESIG.DD.
4na-kannon Kun
H.S.
H.S. Feb. 1933
Gowa
(na-knnon Old Mound)
villago
Buno Kkabunjito
H.S.
H.S.
(Ruins of Bun) Koku-
village
bunji (Tu..plo)
Usukd Kun Sukibutsu
H.S.
li.S. Jun 1934
Hiyoshi
Usuki Tounshig
(Kn Stn- Buddla in
Shrino
Kita-aabo
Usuki)
Usukd Km on Sucibutsu
II.S.
H.S.
Usuld
(Kanmon, Stone Buddla
Towns ip
in Usukd)
Usuld Kilrra Sukibutsu
H.S.
li.S.
fu Hiysii-t) (Kilra
Stine Buddla in Usuld and
Hiyosi Toor)
Usukd Dainicii Sukibu- H.S.
H.S.
tsu (Dainichi Ston- Bud-
dia in Usuki)
Mina.li-tsuu ibli Suki- H.S.
H.S.
Minani-tsuru
Minani-tauru
butsu fu Sloan Ninon, Ka-
Villc
villago, nta-
oninen 2.i Grint
ab-un
(Hokd Ston Buddia in
Minami-tsura and Sngraved
Pa;oda as Erectod in
1172 or 1170 ...D.)
Minani-tsuru Sannozan
H.S.
E.S.
Sukibutsu 'Sannozan Stone
Buddia in Minani-tsuru)
Oita Iwayaji Suidibutsu
H.S.
H.S. Jun 1934
Oita City
Kokokafu,
(Iwayaji Stonu Buddha
Cita City
in Oita)
Oita Motonchi Suktbu-
H.S.
Ii.S.
Motoancid,
tsu (Moto-ncli Stno
Otta City
Buddla in Oita)
Inukai Sulibutsu
H.S.
H.S.
Inukai
Inukai To:mship,
(Inukai Stone Buddia)
Township
Ono-
Sugao Sukibutsu
H.S.
H.S.
Sugao
Sugao village
Suzao Stone Buddha)
Villago
Takase Sukibutsu
HS.
H.S.
Higashi-wa-
Hirashi-rascda
(Takase Stone Buddha)
sada Villago
villaga, Clta
Ogata Miyasoko To-seki-
H.S.
HS.
Ogata
Orta villag
butsu (Miyasuko Eastorn
villago
Onc-gun
Stone Buddha at Oata)
Ogata Miyaseko Sei-sokdi- H.S.
H.S.
butsu (Miyasoko Western
Stona Buddha at Ozata)
Chiyanru Krun
H.S.
H.S. May 1934
Sokijozaw
(Chiyanru Old Mound)
village
no Gsuzi
N.H.P.
B. Au3. 1994

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.93)
N.H.P.. G. D. 1934
Mriu Stalactite Cave)
151
villago
Oima Ogi-yama
N....P.
GM. Ju 1935
Min. of
(Mt. Diwa Oziyama)
griculturo
(Mori Town-
ship
Yabakei Sarutobi no
N.H.P.
GM. June 1935
Mizobu
Mizobo Village,
Oktsu-un (Group of
villagu
Shinogo-un
Put Holes at Sarutobi
in Yaba Valley)
Tsukiya.na Kofun
H.S.
H.S. Supt. 193
Haclian
anzakd village.
(Tsukiyan Old Mound)
Shrine
Kita-a.nbə-gun
Oka Joslhi
H.S.
.S. Doc. 1936
Takoda Town-
Takoda Tomship.
(Ruins of Ole Castlo)
ship
Ncori-
Tahoin no Kinaokusei
N.H.P.
B. June 1937
Ta.pin
Shirani Village,
(Golden Frarant Olive
(Tunple)
Naori-u
Tree at Tahoin (Telple)
Ozakd Shalikan Sunz
N.H.P.
B.
Tsukui
Tsukui Tansip.
nold (Original Mandarin
Toins.ip
Kita-anabe-gun
Orano Tre in Ozaki)
Yurui Jinje no Matsu
N.li.P.
B. Dac. 1937
Yurugi
Miyato Villago,
(Pine Trou at Yuruji
Shrino
Naori-gun
Shrin)
KGOSHDMA
Ahima Nettaisei Sho- HS.
H.S. Mar. 1921
Hayato
Hayato Tomship.
kubutsu Sancli (Tropical
Township
Aira-gun
Plant Habitat on Al.in)
(Island)
Osuni Kokubunji-ato
H.S.
H.S.
Kokubu
Kokubu Tormship.
Ruins of Oswli Koku-
Tommslip
Aira-un
ounji (Tenple)
Kiretauchitori Mochi
N.H.P.
B.
Kayoshina
Yeshino-nachi,
Sanchi (Kiratsuc.itori
City
Kagoshina City
(Holm Oak (Ilux Entogra)
Habitat)
Kazoshina-kn Tsuru To- N.H.P.
2.
Kagoshina
Akane, Lannotsu,
raichi (Crano Habitat
Profecture
Takmono, Noda
in Kazoshimm)
Townships, Mikmso
Village, Izuni-gun
Miremura Ryukyu Koyai N.H.P.
B. Mar. 1921
Kiire
Klire Village,
anchi (Unusual Plant
village
Ibusuld-gun
(Phisophoracoae) Habi-
in Xiire-Village)
L1
daik no Deitan Kei- N.H.P.
B.
Luda
Lmida village
Sholubutsu Gunrak
village
Satswn-un
Bos Plants in
B.

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.91)
Yakkoso Haseichi
N.H.P.
B.
Mar. 1922
Rigeshs
(Umusual Plant (Mitras-
iekikd To
tumon Yanamotoi) Habitat)
slip
Gamou no Kusu
M.H.P.
B.
Glmohinan
(Camphor Trme in Ganou)
Shrine
Sototsu Jisuichi
N.H.P.
B.
Mar. 1923
Min. of
Ya.kum
(Wild Pal-liko Plant
griculture
Ibusukd
(Cyond) Habitat)
Mimnikata
Kavanabo-
Village, Veld
Towmelhib.
un
Higan-zakura Jisai
N.H.P.
B.
Yoshinatsu vill
Nangenkai (Southorn Limit
ira
Zone of Higan Ciwrry Tree)
Ibusukobas hi Mur-ava
H.S.
H.S. Dac. 1924
Ibusukd
Ibusuid Tomship.
Ibutsu Hoganc..i (anciunt
Tonship
Ibusukd
Ruins in Murua Ibu-
全B53-CO
sukebas.i)
Yaku-jiin Sui Guns.lirin N.H.P.
B.
Min. of
Shinoyaku. Mani-
(Prilluval Forost f
yaku Villagos,
Japanesu Cudar in Yaku
Kinge-gun
Island)
Shiroyaia
N.H.P.
Juno 1931
Kaoslina
Ya.s.ita-machi
(Sliroyana (Hill)
H.S.
HS.
City
Kagosiim City
3ata Kyu Yalu-un
HS.
H.S. Oct. 1932
Privato
sata Villago.
(Old Gardun of Modicinal
Ouner
Kinotsuld-zum
Hurbs in Sata)
Mui ji Tunno Gyokojo Iso H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1933
sina
Yoshino-mchi,
Shimazu Bottoi Shusoikn
City
Doshima City
to Ijinkan (Iso Dutachod
House of Shiazu and Foruiner's
Mansion Visitad by Enporr
Meiji)
Meiji Tunno Gyokojo
H.S.
H.S.
Kaosl.in
Kagoshinako Sl4n
Funagata Daiba (Vossol-
Prefocture
hatoba, Kagoshina
siaped Battory (Fort)
City
Visitad by E.aperor Muiji)
Toni Kofun
H.S.
H.S. Jun 1934
Hinshi-ku-. Hiashi-asio
(Toni Old Mound)
stio villagb. Vinge
.taukdgun
Keian Haka
H.S.
H.S. Spt. 1936
Ishikd
Ishild Villago.
(Tomb of Kian)
village
Eegoshia-un
Linami-ura Fumiyaki Haka H.S.
H.S.
Kajild
Kajikd Township.
(Taub of Fuaiyuld Minami-
Tomship
Aira-gun
ira)
Kauamura-shi Tei-en
S.s.
3.9. Dos. 1936
Kaseda
Ihsoda
Jarden of the Mwarura
Tounship
ranily)
Chiran-mchi Hirayama- S.S.
s.s.
Chiran
sii Tui-on (Garden of the
Tamahip

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.93)
Dee. 1936
the Mori.
Shibushi-mclhi Hiraya-
s.s.
s.s.
Shibushi
ma-shi Tui-un (Garden
Tarnship
of the Hirayann Jalily
in Shibushi Tains:ip)
Miyagahara-shi Tui-un
s.s.
S.s.
(Garden of tho Miyaga-
bara Falily)
Makisono-nura no Ocia- .H.P.
B. Doc. 1937
Makdsono
Makisono Township.
nold (Giant Tua Trou
Tow slip
ira-
in Makisono Villago)
Kurino-nclii Hanashobu N.H. P.
B. Dac. 1938
Kurino
Kunno Township.
Jisui Nangon Chitai
Tomship
Aira-gun
(Soutlum Linit Zone of
Wild Iris in Kurino
Tnship)
i-Tarayhsa-Tomship.
Tsukizaki n) Okusu
N..lI.P.
B. Fub. 1940
Otsuka
(Gient Ca plor Treo in
Shrino
Kinotsuld-gun
Tsukazaki)
Kavanabe no Olasu
N.IL.P.
B.
Fob. 1941
Iikura
Kawanabe Towmahip.
(Giant Cnpor True in
Sirino
Kawanabo-gun
Kawanabe)
Fujikawa Tunjin no
N.H.P.
B.
Oct. 1941
Suaara
Kanito Villago.
Garyu-un (Garyu Flun
Sirino
Satswa-gun
Tree at Fujikava Tonjin)
(Shrino)
Shibushi no Oikusu
N.H.P.
B. Noy. 1941. Yaaniya
Shibushi Tomslip.
(Giant Canphor Troe n
Shrino
So-gun
Shibushi)
Yokose Kofun
H.S.
H.S.: S.pt. 1943 Not given
OsaH Tomship.
(Yoksse Old Mound)
S-n
Satsun Kokubunji To-ato H.S.
H.S. Now. 1944
Kokubunji-naohi,
(Ruins of Tower ?
Sendai City
Satsuna Kokubunji)
(TUmple)
Nagatoshi-ura To O- N.H.P.
B.
Nagatoshi Village,
tamanold (Special Manolia
Satsuna-gun
Tree (Michelia Cauprussa)
in Nagatshi Village)
uksald Kaun-yun
H.S.
H.S.
To. kyan Township.
Group of Ol-1 Moundsin
Kinotsuld-gun
uinsaki)
yam J:shi
H.S.
H.S.
of mlayas Castle)
N.H.P.
B. Mar. 1921
Aosima Will

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.92)
CLLSSI-
PICATIO
Tokizald Sotutsu Jise.N.H.P.
B.
Mar."1921
Toki
ichi (Wild Pala-liko
village
M1
Plant (Cycad) Habitat
in Tokizakd)
Sa.ano no Sui-nanild N.H.P.
B. Dac. 1923
Sa.nno
Tokabara Tow
(Roadside Japeso Cadar
Sirine
Nishi-morok
Trees in Su.nno)
Sukino-o-no Oktsu
N.H.P.
G.M. Fob. 1928
Min. of
Shonai Tomship.
(Pot Hol: in Sukino-o)
Hano iffairs
Ki tanorokata-gun
Takas.in no Ganaoi
N.H.P.
Feb. 1930
Kitaura
Kitnura villago.
Jiseichi (Wild Ga..a
village
Hi ashi-uswld-qun
HollyLock Habitat in
Taka Island)
Yoshi. no Kinnokusei
N.H.P.
B. pr. 1930
(Golden Fragmnt Olivo
Tree in Yoshia)
Soringanara Kuyo-to
H.S.
H.S. Fub. 1933
Kawaninai
Kawe:linai village.
(Tover Erected for the
village
Koyu…un
Repose of s uls in
Soringeia)
Tauge no Tud Si.onyudo N.H.P.
GM.
Taiacliho
Tknchiho Toumahip.
(Tougo no Tid Stalactite
Tomslip
Nishi-usuki-
Cave)
Nanaori Shonyud
N.H.P.
GM.
Nanaori
Nanaori Village.
(Nanaori Stalactite Cave)
villago
Nishiusuk..gun
Myokokuji Tei-un
H.S.
H.S. pr. 1933
Myokokuji
Tanishina Villap.
(Gardun at Myokolauji)
(Tunple)
Hi ash.-usuki-yun
(Tuplu)
Sachi-jina Saru Soiso- N.H.P.
Z. Jan. 1934
Iclikd
Ic:iki Villago.
kuclhi (Wild Monkoy Habi-
Villago
Minai-naga-un
tat on Sachi Island)
Muknbakiya:na
S.S.
S.S. Junu 1934
Min. of
Ninani-kata
(Mt. Mukabaki)
Acriculture
Villege. Hiasldp
usuld-un
Chibata Kufun
H.S.
H.S. May 1934
.ihokd ta
Kani holita Village.
(Chibata Old Mound)
village
Koyu-un
Nislitobaru Krun-sun
H.S.
H.S.
Tsua Tom-
Tsua Tomship.
(Group of old Mounds
sip, Kani-
Zaihokita V llaga
in Nishitobaru)
hokita
Koyu-gun
Village
Sumano Jinja Bupposo
N.H.P.
2.
Suano
Takainru Tomahip
Hanslokuchi (Brad-billod
Sirine
Nisti-orokata-un
Roller Cuckoo Nesting
Grounds at Sumano Shring)
oshima-mura no Ryuld N.H.P.
GM.
Aoshina
Loshina Village.
Khisho to Kikei Hashoku-
village
MiyazalH-un
kon (Elevatod Saa Bed
and Rin of Javo Ero
sion in oshina)
Nalano-o Myohi
H.S.
H.S. Aus. 1934
Tozo village Togo village
(Momuunt Erootad for the
Minani-naga
Repose of thu Souls
in mkmno)

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.93)
REASON
CLISSI-
JICATION·DEBIG.
Honjo Kofun-gun
H.S.
. . 1934
Honjo
Honjo Townshép
(Group of Old Mounds
Tomanip
Higas hi-moroldt
in Honjo)
3un
Golasegava Kyokoku (Taka- S.S.
S.S. Nov. 1934
Takachiho
Thkachiho Townshil
chiho-kyo) (Golasesawa N.H.P.
GM.
Tainship
Nishi-usuld-un
Valley) (Takachiho Valluy)
Yaura Sui
N.H.P.
B.
Juno 1935
Tonugava
Shiba Village,
(Ya..ura Japanau Cedar)
Shrine
Nishi-usuki-gun
Lnanachi Ichirizuka
H.S.
H.S. Doc. 1935
Miyakonojo
Miyakonojo City.
(Iachi Mile Stono)
City
Nakago Village,
Nakago
Kita-norokata-n
villago
Yunoniya no Zaron-ux
N.H.P.
B.
Niuta
Niuta Villago,
(Zaron Plua Troe in
Villaje
Koyu-gun
Yuhaniya)
Takmokano Tsukishiri-
N.H.P.
B.
Dac. 1935
Takaoka
Takaoka Tonship.
us (Tsuidsiri Plu.
Towns hip
Higashi-norokata-
Trae in Tala ka)
n-IS-
Sarukawa no Kosonju
N.H.P.
B.
n
(Ginko Tre n Saruka)
Hyuga Natsunik:n Genju N.H.P.
B.
..keo Town-
Akeo Tovnship,
Oriinal hinese Citrn
ship
Miyazakd-un
Tree in Hyup)
Hasnijucli-shi Tin
S.S.
S.S. Dec. 1936
Minitsu
Minitsu Tomship,
(Gardon of the Hashi-
Tounship
Koyu-gun
guchi Faily)
Teraoka-shi Tei-un
S.S.
S.S.
Obi Tan-
Obi Township.
(Garden of the Temoka
ship
Mina i-nagagun
Faily)
Otsu-shin
S.S.
s.s.
Kadokav
Zadokawa viliage,
(Otsu Island)
villaço
Hi gasli-usukd-un
Hici-an oyobi Yahazu-
S.S.
S.s. Sopt. 1939
Kita-kata
Kita-kata Villago
dake (Mt, Hici and
Villago
Higashi-usukd-gun
Mt. Yahazu)
Nanaori
Nanaori villago,
village
Nishi-usukd-gun
Honjo no Ichiigashi
N.H.P.
B.
Mar. 1941
Kunnoo
Honjo Tormship.
(Ichii ak in Honjo)
Shrino
Higas hi-norokata-
1. -1
Utsuni no Yakkoso
N.H.P.
B. s. 1941
Aoshia
Aoshima Villago.
Hassoichi (Unusual Plant
village
Miyazaki-gun
(Mitrastumon Yalanoto)
Habitat in Utsuni)
Utsuni no ko
N.H.P.
B.
Oct. 1941
Nogwn
(Banian Tree in Utsuai)
Shrino
Ilame Kofun-un
H.S.
H.S. Sapt. 1943 Not given
Ikme Village.
(Group of Old Mounds
Miyazald-gun
in Ikme)
Minami-kata Kofun-un
H.S.
H.S.
Not given
Minani-kata
(Group of Old Mounds
Village, Hi.ashi-
 Minai-kata)
usukd-gun

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.91)
R-231-CR-B41
REISON
DTS
CLSSI,
FOR
NNE
FIC.TION DESG.DESIG.
Aatsunoto-zuka Kfun
HS.
H.S. Mar. 1944
Not iven
(Matsunoto-zuka Old Mound)
Osuzuyaa Baxufu-un
S.S.
SS.
Tono Townshipe
(Group of Haturfalls on
Koyu-gun
Mt. Osuzu)
Niutabaru Kofun-un
H.S.
H.S. Nov. 1944
Niuta Villaço,
(Group of Old Aounds
Tsun Tomship.
in Niutubaru)
Koyu-un
OVER THO PREFECTURES
Shiru Renzan Kozan
N.H.P.
B.
Nuv. 1922
Min. of
Holdyo Villate.
Shulauoutsu-tii (alpino
riculturo
Kita-azui-
Plant Zone in the Slhiro-
Na ano Profeotus
u.e M untain Ranjus)
Ksta ld village.
Nishi-kubiki-zun
Niigata Profectur
Funani, Limsto.
Uchiya.e Villazes.
'Sfiflo-sfinkava-u
Toyan Profecture
Bailni Jisui Nanion-
N.L.P.
B.
Iar. 1922
Su-tsuno.
Suwtsuno village
chitai (s uticrn Iimit
TkrO
Ketaka-un, Toko
Zone of Pacsual Plants
Beido
ro village.
Called "B:ik i")
Villagas,
Suihnku-un, Tot-
Takaini
tori Prafacturo:
T.mship,
Daido Village.
Min. of
Kashi-un, Ta
riculture
hagi Township.
Tagn- un, Ibaragi
Frofecturo
Tsubaki Jisei Hokugen- NoH.P.
B.
ect. 1922
Kaninato
Kominato Tow. ship
lai (Nortiern Lilit
Tmship.
Hi ashi-tsugaruog
Zone of ild Cawllia)
Minali-iso
Aomri Profecture
Tnship
Minani-iso Villag
Minani-akd ta-guni
Akita Profecture
Ounasi Scisokuchi
N.H.P.
2.
Mar. 1923
Kabashin,
Kabashina Village.
(Giant Eal. Habitat)
Kita-tnita,
Nisli-sonold-.
Minani-toni-
Jatasakd:Brqfuetu
ta Villages
Rtartolita. Nigh
Jalita Villazes.
Nishi-urbeang.
Wak ya,a Profeotu
Kawanishi Village,
Kawebu-gun. Toku-
shia Prefecture
Zasasagi Suisokuchi
N:H.P.
2.
Mar. 1923
Fukuoka and
Ya.ato-yun, Misu-
(Maypie Habitat)
Saga Pre-
-gun, Saga City
fectures
Fukwokm Prefe
Saga-n, M
gun, Kishim-
Fujitsu-gun.
Saga Prefecture

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.92)
FOR
PICATION
Mtotsubatago Jisoichi N.H.P.
B.
Mar. 1923
Ilmno, Kaato Ikono village
(Unusual Plant (Chio-
Hirukawa
Niwa-gun, Muato
panthus Retusus) Habitat)
Villages
Villago. Toki-m
ichi Prefesture
Ksazi, Hirukme
Villages, Ena-Gun.
Gifu Profecture
Kaido Jiseichi
N.H.P.
B.
Min. of
Mnkdizono Townhip.
(Wild Aronia Habitat)
griculture
Aira-n, o-
shina Profuoturos
Kakato, Iino
Villaas, Nishi-
moroketa-gun,
Miyazald Prufoctur
Chisujinori Hassichi
N.H.P.
B.
Dac. 1924
Hijikuro
Hi jikauro Village,
(Unusual Flant (Thorud
villago,
Taiira Tamslip.
Rauosissin) Habitat)
Tahira
Nagasakd Profec-
Tomship
turo, Hishikari
Towmship. Isa-gun,
Kashia Prefec-
ture
Ehine-ayan Jisei
N.H.P.
B.
Oct. 1925
Naniwa
Naniwa Village.
Nangenchi:i (S uthorn
viliage
Onsen-un, Rhino
Liait Zone of Wild
Bofu City,
Prefacturo; Bofu
Ehime-Iris)
Nako
City. Yaraguchi
village,
Profecturo; Nakme
Saigo villgo Village, Higashi-
Kunisa kd-gun, Oitt
Prefocture: Saigo
Village, Kanzald-
gun, Kuboizuni
villgo, Saga-g,
Saga Prefecture
Hego Jisci Hokuyon
N.H.P.
B.
Oct. 1926
Mitauno.
Okago, Mitsuna
Chitai (Northorn Linit
Txnnoura;
Villages, Hachijo-
Zone of Wild Cyathea
Ohnin vil-
jina, Tokyo-to,
Boninsiursis)
ls, o-
Taanoura Toanship
shina Pru-
Ohnn Village.
footure, Wara-Minani-atsuura-u
villago
Nazasa kd Prefoctur
Nishi-wara
Uchinoura Towmship
Village
Koneshir Village,
Kinotsuki-n,
Kasasa Tovnship.
Kawanabe-gun, Sat
Kamikoshikd, Shinc
koshikd Villages.
Satsuma-gun, Kago-
shin Profecture:
Kura, Nishi-kara,
Villagas, Gunjo-
Gifu-Prefecture
anshouo Seisokuchi
N.H.P..
Z. pr. 1927
Oka yana
Uhara Township.
(Giant Salanander Habi-
Prefecture,
Chukm, Yatsukm, Ka
tat)
Minani-In-
wakani. Futakma
nai Village
Villages, Maniwmg
Okayama Prefeoture
Minani-'innai
villago. Usa-gn.
Oita Prefecture

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.93)
.R-231-CR-B-1
REASON
DLTE
CLSSI-
FOR
NAME
FIC.TION
DESIG.DESIG.
Dorohatcho
S.S.
S.S. Mar. 1928
Not iven
Tankiguehi.
(Gr3e)
N.H.P:
GM.
Village.Hig
Prefocturo, Irul
Villago. Minani-
uro-un, Mie Pro
focture: Totsuga-
iwa villago.
Yoshinoun,
Nara Profocturo
Toradako oyobi Oira-
S.S.
s.S. ..pr. 1928
Towada Villago.
seliryu (Lako Tonda
N.H.P.
Kaikita-un.
and Otrase M unta in
Amori Prefacture:
Strean)
Nanatald village,
Kazuno-un, Aldta
Profocture
Hicizan Ch.orui Hansho- N.H.P.
Z.
Oct. 1930
Enryalauji
Sakyo-kau, Kyoto
kucli (Mt. Hi i. Bird
(Tu.iple)
City, Yasa Villago
Nus tin; rea)
atago-gun, Kyoto
Prefucture, Salano
viliagsg shigaszun
Shiga Prafactura
Kisoa
S.S.
S.S. May 1931
Dota Vill, Dota Village, Kani
(Rivor Kis))
Sakehoi,
un, Sakahoi
Kunu
Village, Kano-gun.
Vill
Kugoyna village.
Inuya a
Inaba-gun, Gifu
To.mship.
Profocture; Inu-
Joto Villaga
yan, J to Village
Nim-un, Michi
Prefocture
Enryaxuji Keidai
H.S.
H.S. Mar. 1934
Enryakuji
Sakanoto Village,
(Gr unds of Enryakuji)
(TR:ple)
Shiga-gun. Shiga
(Tuple)
Profccture; Yase
Villago, tago-gn
Zyoto Prefocture
Mei ji Tenno Ichiburi
H.S.
H.S. July 1937
Ichiburi
Iciiburi Villago.
Goslokijo-ato yobi
village.
Nishi-kubikd-un,
Tatu.lono (Ruins of
My∞iji
Niigata Prufeoture
Emperor Mei ji's Rusting
(Tumple)
(Rostin3 Place):
Place and Structure
Yokoya.n Village.
in Ic.iburi)
Shino-shinkava-gun
Toyarn Prefacture
(Structura)
Kishi (Tchi) Josi
H.S.
H.S. Dec. 1937
Motoyana
Motoya.n Village.
(Ruins of Kishi (Tocli)
village
Miyoki-gun, Saga
Castle)
Profecturo: Yamm-
zuchi villge.
Chikushi-gun.
Fukoka Prafectura
Takanosuyana
N.H.P.
GM. . 1941
Min. of
Hikoyaa Village
(Mt. Takan su)
riculture
Tagawa-gun,
Fukoka Profacture
Tsukinold villeg
Shinoge-un, Oit
Prefocture

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.93)
REASON DTE
CLASSI-
FOR
ADMINIS-
FICATIONDEBIG. DEBD.
TR&TOR
LOCATION
Yokoyana Nirehara
N.H.P.
GM. Oct. 1941
Shinota,
Shimota Village.
Toukdage Danso (Elevatad
Hosoiri,
Kxli-shinkmwa-gum.
Dislocatad Rook Forwa-
Funatsu
Hosoiri Villago,
tions in Yokoyama Nira-
Villages:
Nohi-un. Toyam
bara)
Min. of
Prefecture,
Hax Affairs
Funatsu Tormship.
and Agri-
Kichijo-un,
culture
Gifu Prefactura
DESIGNATION WITHOUT LIMITING ARE
Rurikakesu
N.HaP.
z.
Mar. 1921
Not;iven
daoshin
(Lidth's ay)
Profecture
A.nni no Kurousaji
N.H.P.
Z.
(Black Hare in ami)
Raicho
N.H.P.
Z.
Mar. 1923
Japan Alps
(Ptaraigan)
Tosa Onaadori
N.h.P.
2.
Kochi Pre-
Kochi Prefeoturo
(Tosa Lon; Tail Cock)
focturo
Akita Inu
N.H.P.
z.
July 1931
Akita Pre-
Akita Prefocture
(kita Doj)
focturo
Usi U.n
N.H.P.
Z.
Nov. 1931
Kagos.ina
Nishino-onote
(Zild.ass))
Prefecture
Tomship. Kunge-
n, Kaos.ina
Profocture
Kai-inu
N.H.P.
Z.
Jun 1934
Not ivon
Yananas:i
(Kai Do)
Profecture
Kanoshika
N.H.
Z
May 1934
Niigata, Fukuslir
(Antelope)
Gunua, Yananashi,
Nagano, Gifu,
Toya..a, Mio. Nara.
e ka ya.n, Toku-
shia. Kochi,
Miyazaki Pre-
fecturos
Kishu-inu
N.H.P.
Z.
a kayan
Wakayana and Mie
(Kishu Do;)
and Mie
Prefacturas
Prufectures
Toki
N.H.P.
Z. Dec. 1934
Niigata and
Niigata and
(Japanesa Crested Ibis)
Ishikawa
Ishikawa Pre-
Prefecturos
fecturos
Koshi no Inu
N.H.P.
Z.
Ishikawa,
Ishikawa, Toyana,
(Koshi Day)
Toyana and
and Fuki Pro-
Fukui Pre-
fectures
foctures
Totenko-dori
N.H.P.
Z. Sopt. 1936
Not ven
Kochi Profecture
(Totenko Cock)
Shibe Imu
N.H.P.
Z. Dec. 1936
Gifu. Toya.a Gifu. Toyan and
(Shiba Do3)
and Nagano
Nagano Prefecture:
Profectures
Ima
N.H.P.
Z. Juno 1937
Kochi Pro-
Xvchi Profacture
Dog)
fecture.

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.89)
R-231-0R-3-1
RESON DATE
CLASSI-
FOR
OF
ADMINIS-
NME
FICTION DESIG.DESID.
TRATOR
Uzura Chabo
N.H.P.
Z.
Junu 1937
Kochi Fre-
Kochi
(Uzurc Bantan Chic.cn)
focture
Minohild Clabo
N.H.r.
Z.
(Minohild Bantan
Chickun)
okkido Inu
N.H.r.
2.
Duc. 1937
Hokkaido
Hokkaido
(Hokmido D,s)
Keyos..i pori
N.l.P.
2.
4itu Pro-
Akita, Lonari.
(Kysi Cck)
fucturo
and Ixte Pre-
fectures
T.ru
T.l..r.
z.
S~pt. 1939
Niijata
Nii a ta Pro-
(Toru C,ck)
rrefocture
fecture
Minslid D ri
N.i..P.
Z.
Au 1940
Aichi,
Lichi, Shizuoka
(Min hikd C ck)
Shizuoka
Profocturus
Prufecturus
Jiki
N.h..r.
2.
Junc 1941
Mtc, Gifu.
Mic, Gifu, and
(Jiki Cock)
and Scli
KSchi-Prsfeeturos
Prefucturos
Oludi D.ri
N.F.P.
Z.
n
Mie nd
Mio, Sliga and
(Okmi Cock)
ot)
Kyto Frefoctures
Prefocturus
N.h.P.
2.
u.1941
Tolyo Motro- Tokyo Motropolis,
(Bantin Chickan)
p)lis, Ciiba. C.iba. Kana awa,
Kan,
Scita.a, Guna.
Scita a
Slizuoke. Osala,
Gun n. Shi-
and Ku r.loto
zuk. Osaka, Profocturos
Kuna lto
rrefectures
Shao
N...P.
2.
Tokyo Motro-
Tokyo Motropolie,
(Cuclin China Ful)
pulis, Iba-
Ibaraji. Chiba,
raji, Chiba,
Aaori, Akita
ax1.ri, and
and Kochi Pre-
Kchi Pro-
fectures
fuctures
Hinai Duri
N.H.P.
2.
July 1942
Not Given
Akita Prefocture
(Hinai Cock)
Ukotsu Kui
N.IH.P.
2.
Toky) Mutro- Tokyo Motropolis,
(Ukstsu Cock)
polis, Mie, Mic, Osaka
Osc. a, Ya n- Bir s in  Yana-
uchi and
uchi and Kagawa
K Pre
rrofectures
fucturus
Kawachinu Dori
N.H.P.
Z.
Au1934
Not ivon
Not iven
(Kawachinu Cook)
Satsuh Dori
N.H.P.
Z.
(Satsun Cock)
Jito Dori
N.H.P.
Z.
(Jito Cock)

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.93)
CLSSI-
DATE OF
DLTE OF
FICATION
DESIGNTION REMOVAL
Iinoyana Yoko-ana
H.S.
Mar. 1922
Oct. 1927
Saigo Tommship.
(Iinoyan Cave)
Suki-un, Shinam
Prefacture
Shizuba-ura Shidaraguri
N.H.r.
July 1920
Feb. 1928
Shizuha Village,
Jiseichi (Wild eeping
Ena- un, Gifu
Shostnut Tree in Shizuha
Prufocture
Villa)
Muroto Misald Nottaisei
N.h.r.
Mar. 1921
pr. 1928
Tsuro villge, ald
Shokubutsu Sanchi (Tropical
un, Kochi Fro-
Plants Habitat in Muroto
focture
Foint)
Nojishi Miyuki no Matsu
N.H.P.
Oct. 1926
Nov. 1928
Nakanugishi-acht,
(Miyuki pino Troo in No ishi)
Shitaya-ku, Tokyo
Shishinran Gunrala
N.II.F.
Fob. 1928
July 1930
Shino-kitayana
(Unusual Flant (Lysionothus
Village, YosLino-
ranciflora) .roa)
un, Nara Pro-
focture
Shfukuji no Banryu Matsu 
N.H..
Juno 1928
Fub. 1933
I.nzu village,
(Banryu  ine Tr in Siofu-
Itosl.in-n.
kaji (rp]e)
Fukuok rrefueture
Koivn- uru Mujinaio Sanchi N.Hor.
Mar. 1921
Doc. 1933
Kiwa-nchi,
(ldronndi Vesiculosa
Edojawa-bu, Tokyo
Habitat...
 in Kuiwa
village)
Hitotsu-batago
N.H.P.
Dac. 1924
Aoya:a, akasaka-k
(Unusual lant Area)
Tokyo
(Chionanthus Rutusus)
Jojuin no Shidare Akashido N.H.P.
Junu 1928
Minai-oshihara
(ieepin" (Carpinus Laxiflora)
Village, Kaitsug
Unusual rlant arua in Jo-
gun. Tochiji
juin (Te..ple)
Profecture
Knnonji no Kinaokusei
N.H.P.
pr. 1927
Fub. 1934
Minawa Villago.
(Goldun Fragrant Olive Troo
Ukiha-un.
in Kannonji (Tuuple)
Fukuoka rrofecturc
Takasago no Matsu
N.H.P.
Dac. 1924
Dac. 1928
Takasazo Tonship,
(Fine Trae in Takasago)
Kako-gun, Hyogo
Frefecture
Hakusan Hata-zaiaura
N.H.P.
Dec. 1925
Dec. 1928
Hakusan-me-nchi,
(Hata Charry Tree in Hakusan)
Koislikawa-ku,
Tokyo
Tenjinmori no Okayaki
N.H.P.
Dac. 1938
Junu 140
Hijin Village,
(Giant Zalkova Treo in Ton-
Kita..tana-un.
jinmori)
Tokyo
Ogura-iko Mujinamo Sanchi
N.H.P.
Sopt. 1925 Dec. 1940
Mukojina Azumesadr
fAldrovanda Vesiculosa
Ukechisakd, Fushi
Habitat in O ura Pond)
ku. Kyoto City
Otsuke Kxrun
H.S.
Mar. 1921
Dac. 1941
Matsubara Village:
(Otsuka Old Mound)
Naka-kavaohi-un.
Takawashi Village,
Minani-kmwachi-yur
Osala Profeoturo
ar no Sundan
N.H.P.
Oot. 1926.
July 1942
Matsus. im Villagc
in mjáyahara)
Sakno-a. To
shima Pr

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.86)
V. SOURCIS:
Ministry of Education: Shisad isho Tonnen
Icuiran (List of Historic Sites, Seonio
History Praserves), Tosgyo, Junuary 1943
L ist or E uo tior: Shiseld. eis. o Tunnen Ainan-butey
Ie.irin T u.a (Sup. le unt to List or lst rio Sitos.
Sccnic Sp ts, at rl  istory Presarves), Tolye, as
or 1 Jce.1er 1 .4
133

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.94)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DIVISION_0
NORTHEAST AS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RERRDSTELEGRAPH BRANGN
JUN3190-00
in
DEPARTMENT OF STME
d0
A.I RGRAN
C4
4222
41
FROL:
USPOLAD, Tokyo
GEA
Dated:
June 10, 1948
Date of Mailing:
June 12, 1948
2
CONFIDE ITIAL
Roo'd:
June 22, 3:19 p.m.
(For Use or Departnent Only)
Z
Secretury of State,
ACTION:FE
Washington.
INFO1
D3/R
1.-123, Ju20 10, 1948.
L
8
0
During a visit to Kagoshima City by an officer of this Mission,
6
OCD
the Vics Governor of Kagoshime Prerecture expressed hope thet in the
CIA
peace treaty the territory formerly within this prefeoture would be
restored to Japan. He had reference to that portion of Kagoshime Pre-
focture which 1s bolow 30 degrees north latitude. He pointed out that
oconomically, politically, and ethnologically it has been part of Japan
proper or a loug period of time. He mentioned that nearly all residents
of the portion of Kagoahima north of the 30 degree line have relatives
or friends in the urea below this line and are deeply disturbed at this
mpe
artificial barrier. While people can now write and telephone one another,
10
3-94-48
they cannot easily travel or trade. The Vice Governor stated that the
48
inhabitants of Kagoshina Prefecture have confidence that the United States
will see to it that at the time of the peace treaty the whole of. agoshimm
Prefecture is united.
The Vice Covernor stated that information obtained from Amami-0-Shim,
1s very costly to the United States whereas formerly thore was a thriving
trade between the 1slands south of the 30 degrce line und the main portion
of Kagoshima Prefecture north of the line.
S.EALD
JUL6 1
714
PERAENTRECORU U—This copy mes be reterned to DC/R otra Ms w netaen ef  ta.

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.95)
THE POREIGN SERVICE
ACTION
OF THE
is assigned to
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
No. 612
AN ARS
UNCLASSIFIED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DYR
Subject: Korean Petition Concerning Sovereignty of "Doeksm",
Ullungo Do, Tsushima, and "Parang" Islands.
The Acting Polit ical Adviser has the honor to enclose a verbe-
tim copy of a petition dated August 5, 1948 sent to the Supreme Cem-
FE
mander for the Allied Powers by the Patriotic Old Men's Association,
Seoul, Korea, requesting that favorable consideration be siven
Korea's claim for the return of "Docksm" (said to be Takeshime or
Liancourt Rocks), Ullungo Do (Utsuryo To), Tsushima, and "Pareng"
0111
Islands. "Parang" Ialand cannot be identified by this Missiom.
The petition attmpts to trace Korea's historical interess in
these islands and to illustrate how Japan has used the islands as
0
stepping stones for aggression upon the continent of Asia. In this
connection reference is made to the Mission's despatch no. 1296,
Septmber 23, 1947, tranmitting Part IV of a study by the Japenese
DC/M
Foredgn Office entitled "Minor Islands Adjacent to Japan Proper";
Part Iv of this study discusses Japan's claim to Takeshime and to
Utsuryo To.
Although nothing is known concerning the organisation and pur
poses of the Patriotic Old Men's Association, it is believed thet
the enclosed petition may be indicative of Korean thinking in
regard to the disposition of the islands in question.
DEPARTMENTOF
Enclosure:
CSN
RECEIVED
Petition dated August 5,
1948 sent to SCAP by the
STATE
24PM410
Patriotic Old Men's Asso-
ciation, Seoul, Korea.
STATE
2
W/OO
5
RECEI
DEPARENT
R
VVL
Knd
FEB 8 1949
Origimal and oselid to the Department
ee: U.S. Reppesmtetive, Sesal.

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 612 deted
September 16, 1948 from the Offiee of
the United States Politieal Advieer
at Tokyo, on the subjeet of: "Kereem
Petition Concerning Sovereigaty of
"Docksum", Ullungo Do, Tsushima, and
"Parang" Ialands.
HEADQUARTERS
PATRIOTIC OLD MEN'S ASSOCIATION
Secul, Korea
5 August 1948
SUBJECT: Request for Arrangement of Lands Between Korea and Japem
TO:
Gen. Douglas MacArthur, Supreme Commander, SCAP
We, Koream people, are ever so interesting for your negotiation
for peace to Japan, because Korea stands near by Japan and Korea was
under the cruel compression of Japan for years and vast sacrifices
were always paid to Japan. We expect you that so sharp and keen
plans for establishment of oriental peace and order and are waiting
for its announcement. Korea who has no actual voice in the confer-
ence should be wall considered by your great plans.
Speaking oriental peace, Korean opinions which will play a great
role in it, is absolutely necessary. Before some advices are sub-
mitted you in the course of negotiation of peace and establishment
or oriental orders, we, Patriotic Oldmen's Association, are to smb-
mit a request on arrangment of lands, believing your kind consider-
ation.
Importance of legal arrangement of lands in the international
order, was shown in the corridor at the east Europe established is
the Versailles construction.
Generally speaking, legal arrangemental standards stand on a
passive side, e.g., restoration of lands taken away, and on the other
active side, e.g., division of land for supporting development some
nation and for the peace of the nation.
On the land matters between Korea and Japan, both active and
pessive sides are present and we herety request as follows:
I. Returning back the island "Docksm."
It is not suspected at all but well understood that the
island "Ulneumgde", and its attached are belenging to Koree histori-
cally and astually. Japan, hewever, plammed to profit by fishing
and feresting wader the eveemsting poliey or Kores fer intereal
seourity prohibiting people to ester the aland. Armed rebbery-
féabers of West Ceast of Japan dared toavede into the ialand and
assert that the island was belenging to Japen and wedieposed en-
tanglement ccntimeed. Bet in ascordame with the reselute megotie-
tien an it, Japen aokmenlodged their fanlt and made a werd to pre-

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
No. 612, Septmber 16, 1948.
- 2 -
both countries, Korea and Japan, became to arise, again. Under the
negotiation in Tokyo on it by Korean plenipotentiary, Suh Sang Woo
and his advisor G. von Mollendorf, Japan surrendered to Korea, and
thereafter Korean Govemment manmged in legaily and absolutely, and
no chance was given them to re-make such difficulties. On the other
hand, due to the Russian racific Policy, international equality was
made and finally Japan closed to invade somewhere.
Japan, however, never dismiss the fishering profit around the
island "Ulnoungdo", but planned to occupy a corner of it by some
means and became to find out a small island calle: "Docksung" in
Korean name, meaning a small pot-shaped island, ne r the Ulnoungdo,
where whales gathered. In 1904, Japanese fisher of Tottoriken named
Nakai Yosaburo made a cruel programme to seize th: Docksum and was
practised to submit petitions or requests to the ydrographic depart-
ment of Navy, Dep't of Home Affairs, Dep't of Foreign Affairs and
Dep't of Agriculture and Commerce, etc. to register the island into
Japanese territory.
At that time, considering the delicate international relations,
Japanese officials hesitated to put into practice. Japan, however,
guessed the Russian failure in the Russian-Japanese War, and Pro-
vincial Notice No. 40 of Tottoriken was issued officially as follows:
"Islands located 85 miles far from Okishima are hereby called
Takeshima and transferred to this province." Thus, these ialands
were occupied by Japanese Government. This was of so secrecy that
not only Korean Govermment but also either nations could not know it.
Furthermore, even if Korean Government turned his attention to it,
no policy might be made for it. As above, Japanese wills were com-
pletely successful on it.
The so-called Takeshima is the very "Dockusum (sic) in Korean
name," and this is nmely, Liancourt Rocks on the world's chart.
This name "Liancourt-Rocks" was established due to the name of the
French whaler which found out the island. Thereafter, by the Russian
Warship "Palleada" in 1854 and by the English warship "Hornet" in
1855, the said island was re-found and the ship's name was given to
it. But it was never suspected that these variously named island
was the very island "Ulneungdo."
In the 2nd edition of "the Korean Hydrographies" published by
the Japanese Navy Hydrographic Department 1889, the Liancourt-Rocks
and Ulneungdo are described as a sme island. It is to be consider-
ably said that a Japanese district office carried out such a plan
imposing upon the world. As a matter of course, it is well under-
stood that such an ialand occupied illegally by Japan should be
returned to Korea.
II. Transferring the island "Tsushima" to Korea.
The island "Tsushima" located at the boundary between the
Sea of Kores and the Sea of Japan is a strategic point on the trems-
portation from Japan to the Continent. Its geographical importance
is easily recomised by the defest of Russia. We have to waderstand
that

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Tokyo's No. 612,
Septmber 16, 1948.
- 3 -
that the Baltic Fleet could not escape from this point and it made
Russia defeated in the final stage of the Russian-Japanese War.
Oriental-nistorically, the Tsushima was the Waiku's headquarters
of aggression into the orient for 5 centuries since the 5th century,
and Korean-nistorically, it was the den of the burglars who abused
their power in the front of horea for about 2,000 years.
Thus, Japan always marched out into Korea or the continent by
using the island as a basal point or as a stepping point. In the
world-map made by Lapo Homem, 1554 (an old oriental map) the
"Ladrois" on the sea between China and Japan was undoubtedly the
Tsushima and its character was already known among the Europeans.
Escaping from the attacking of the pirates based at the Tsushime,
Korea had to pay them several million suks of rice, several million
pieces of cloth and other mans of livings annually, for 5 centuries.
when we consider that black clouds covering the recent Korean history
started from Japan and the ill air current was retained in this
island, Korean people cannot pacify their nerves against the Tsushima.
In the local reconstruction after the great world war II, the
Tsushima should be transferred to Korea as to
1) remove absolutely a standing menace to the livings of Korean
people,
2) prohibit the Japanese aggressive emergence into the continent,
3) prevent the trampling upon the orient of the burglars.
We hereby indicate the appropriate basal conditions as follows:
a. Geographically: The localization of the Tsushima is rather
nearer to Korea than to Japan, and it is not unnaturally thought that
the Tsushima belongs to Korea if we dicide its belonging freely,
standing far from the political conditions.
b. Historically: The name "Tsushima" was originated from the
Korean name "Toosum" meaning two islands (Tshushima is composed of
two islands actually) and the grounding civilisation of the Tsushime
were almostly due to the Korean old civilisation, as many scholars
said, and it is well indicated that the recent civilisation was made
by the hand of the Japanese of Korean origin, according to various
references.
First of all, when Korea subjugated the Tsushima 1396 and 1419,
due to their bad faith, the Tsushime re-recognised the relation be-
tween both nations, namely, master and servant. And as most of the
people in the Tsushima received official ranks and salaries from
Korean Government, Korea thought the Tsushima a land belonging to
Koreen Government, and this fact was clearly deseribed in the history
and geography of Kores (Lee's Korea). It is explained that Teashime
belonged to Korea md then to Korea and Japan sinse Japanese pirates
occupied the island. Such instances occupied by two natioms, are
oftm

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Tokyo's No. 612,
September 16, 1948.
- 4 -
often found in the oriental history. For example, Ryukyu belonged
to China and Japan, and Joshin belonged to Korea and China. And it
is not denied that for some period, the Tsushima belonged to Korea
and Japan doubtlessly.
c. Politically: Though the oriental peace will be completely
made according to the equally developed political self-awakening of
all oriental nations and quitely enriched national conditions of
them, the Japanese aggression should be by the root removed before
to be so. For these purposes, firstly it is necessary not to let
Japan have any bridge to the orient and the Tsushima is carefully
considered for it. As long as Japan manages and governs the
Tsushina freely and legally, Japan will have the chance and power
to aggress into the orient. Of course, this reaggression of Japan
is a great menace to Korea and the orient.
Considering frankly the uneasiness of the United States when
Cuba and Haiti being a basal ground of pirates or aggressing powers,
everyone can well understand the sharp mental process against the
Tsushima.
d. Economically: The Tsushima has poor soil to agriculture
that independent supporting was never obtained. And this resulted
from that the island was under the supervision of Japan but satis-
fied with the mean position to Korea, and, they could not help falling
to beggars as soon as they could not pirate ships. And those who
were under such stages of beggaring, they used to get fishing profits
in the Korean channel to continue their lives. In old ages, the way
to submit the Tsushima was to open them three fishing bases on the
south coast of Korea, too.
Thereafter, when the Meiji-restoration was established and
international relation between Korea and Japan was interrupted, re-
opening of diplomatic relation between both countries began with the
fishing treaty. This fishing profit obtained in the Korean coast
which center is the Korean channel, is necessary for only the island
population but al so indeed plays a great role in the financial
problems of Japan.
It is doubtlessly expected that the fighting on their fishing
centers for living between both countries will be severèly. And so
the reversion of the Tshushima where is the point of commanding sea
is of importance meaning, and this economical base may be turned to
the starting point to the political activity.
Without objection, the change of living means of Japan for their
living and development will be indeed allowed, but it will be never
permitted to rehabilitate standing on the base of our fear and sacri-
fices. We firmly carry our point that transferring the Toushime to
Koree will be the grounding stone for establishment of the new
oriental orders. Some debater may say that Korea which is not a
direet victor will not be able to request the division of land. In
the period of Imperialimm, mmy lands were taken away to compensate
for one or two lives, and so, it will not much estimated to take beek
the Tsushime for our great sacrifice or loss for 2,000 years, theugh
al

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's No. 612,
Soptmber 16, 1948.
-5 -
all lands of Japan will be less enough to compensate them. It is
better understood that a small island "Tsushima" will be a compensa-
tion for loss of people and substances of Korea. Establishment of
Folish Corridor in the Versailles construction was for the new
Luropean order but for the Polish meritorious service, and the mili-
tary service of Korea wi'l be considered.
Pot sdam announc ement of 26th July 1945 said, "the sovereignty
of Japan should only be on Honshu, Hokkaido, Kyushu, Shikoku and
islands directed-----." It is to be interesting that the Ryukyu
and the Tsushima were omitted from the item, and this point is the
very base to request the problem. Sicily to Italy, Corsica to France
and Tsushima to Korea! They are legal.
III. Making clear the belonging of Parang Island.
"Parang" is a series of islands which are on the sea,
Long 1250 E and 32030' N.L. "Parang" is a Korean word and means
"green island," and it has been a markpoint of course from Mokpo to
Hangju of China. The localization of the islands is measured by 150
km. from Cheju of Korea, 450 km. from Nagasaki of Japan and 320 km.
from Shanghai of China, and their belongings are by these distances
well explained.
People say Japan asserted to occupy these islands after surrender
to escape from the sea limitation. It will be a foolish plan to
occupy islands which historically and geographically are not connected
with them, and is an indication of their invasion.
Japan by this means got the Docksum, and Paracel Island on the
South China Sea, and the occupying of Parang will be a re-attack of
their cruel worn-out measure. If this planning above stated of Japan
is true we cannot stand out of the problem. And the chance which will
make clear the Parang's belonging comes now.
The above mentioned requests are to arrange lands between Korea
and Japan to establish a new oriental orders. And this establish-
ment will be not for temporary benefit but for permanent ground of
world's peace. Judging with right and truth, both menacing and be-
ing menaced obtain a legal peace and quaranty.
Of course, we expect that the tradition of the United States,
your sagacity and your deep plans will execute the mission of the
period. You know our walooming you is much passionate and deeper
than welcoming Wilson at the peace conference in Paris. It is be-
cause of his being sagacity and sharp decision. We submit you this
request to help your plans which might or may contain the policy to
support the position of Korea.
We are and were sorry that the unfavorable negotiation for peace
between Korea and Japan was made through the United States, but we
never be to remember it and it was already gone out. We, now, knew
the

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Tokyo's No. 612,
September 16, 1948.
- 6 -
the tradition of the United States, and we are full of hopeness
that lets us know "Right pursuiting life, freedom and happiness"
is a universal truth.
You are kindly requested your sagacity be fully given for
restoration of lands and establishment of oriental peace.
/s/
CHO, SUNG WHAN
Chairman
Patriotic Oldmon's
Association, Sooul,
Korea.

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.92)
An.
THE FOIDGN
OFTHE
UNITED STATES OF AMERISS
REC'D
United States Political Ad
MAY 2
for Japan
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
Tokyo, April 23, 1940.
AC TION
FE
No. 251
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
INFO
DCR
UNCLASSIFIND
Wa. 15, 104
mg.
OLI
OFS
OFD
ITP
POS
U/A
Subject: Impressions of Hiroshima.
m
The Honorable,
The Beeretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose a summary entitled "Impressions.
8
of Hiroshima", prepared by Foreign Service Officer Richard B. FINM
6
as a result of a visit to Hiroshima.
The enclosed summary outlines the progress of reconstruction
0
of the city and comments generally on its economic and social
4/4-2349
conditions.
Respeotfully yours,
For the Acting Political Adviser:
Clerge insgutino.
Cloyte. mustom
Counselor of Mission
d
Enclosure:
Impressiona  Hiroshine.
ty Pereign Service Officer
Richard B. Pimp.
FIM

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.97)
April 23, 1940 from Umited St
Political Adviser fer Jegam.
UICLASSIFIED
IMPRESSIONS OF HIROSHIMA
I spent three days in Hiroshina from March 30 to April 2, 1949
while on leave from the Office of the Political Adviser. Arrenge-
ments for my wife and me to visit Hiroshima were made by Mr. Takiso
MATSUMOTO, People's Cooperative Party member of the House of Repre-
sentatives of the Diet representing Hiroshima.
We arrived in Hiroshima at 3:30 in the afternoon of March 30.
having left Tokyo the preceding evening, and took a brief ride about
the city. I was immediately impressed by the extent of rebailding.
Most of the area about the station, itself a large building rebuilt
since the war, was entirely occupied by small shops, houses, or
corrugated iron shacks. Two days earlier a large fire had destroyed
was in sharp contrast with the buildings around it. Although I had
never been in Hiroshime before, I had expected evidence of war damage
have been completely built up came as a surprise. Cae buildima
has been left untouched as a symbol of the destruction caused by th
atomic bomb, and the dilapidated condition of this large building.
particularly its dome-shaped roof, stands out. Buildings of rein-
forced concrete construction appear generally to have withstood the
blast, although their interiors were without exception severely
damaged.
It was soon obrious, however, that most of the reconstructiom
was of an insubstantial wooden type characteristic of practically
all building in Japan since the end of the war. This type of con-
struction was all the more noticeable and depressing in Hiroshime
because of its complete prevalence. Much of the city appeareas
if it had been hastily built up in a very short time. Some a the
streets downtown were very narrow and buildings were jammed ekt to
each other, all evidently repeating the prewar pattern. Im contrast
were many open spaces, some consisting of only a single plot of land
and others as much as a htndred yards square, which have net yet bees
rebuilt: some of the larger areas were being held open, we were teld,
as a result of city plans for sohools and civic buildings. The rab-
ble for the most part has been oleared away.
Hiroshime is built in the delta of the Ota River, whieh. remifies
into seven branches as it empties into the Inland Sea. Surrounding
the city on the other three sides are a series of hills. The delta
is about thirteen square miles in area. It wes this aree which was
devastated by the concussion, radiation, and fires caused by the
atemic bomb. Buildings on the hills around the city, mestly resi-
totd thes ther vere deverely shakes but sot otherviseà

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.93)
Bnolosure to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 851, Apri1 23, 1949.
The resort and shrine at Itsukushime about twenty miles from s
famous as one of Japan's three beautiful sites, were of ceurse
and greatly relieve the somewhat oppressive atmosphere of Mireshime
Also located well apart from the center of the damage is the Tave
Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha (Far East Industrial), which is the primespel
pany is one of Japan's chief producers of sanrinsha, three-wheeled ve
hicles resembling motorcycles with a small carrying capacity; it pee
duces about 500 of these vehicles every month and also mamufactares
drills used for mining coal. During the war the company made rifles
in addition to its present products, and as a result a part af its
ment remains in the factory but is not being used. The company make
all parts of its vehicles except the rubber accessories, and gives
the impression of being extremely well-operated. Mr. Matsuda, a self
made man who received little schooling and built the company entisely
crease produstisa if it hat the material. Me. Maté
and that if possible he could retain at least part of the machimery
now set aside for reparations. I was unable to learn much about Mr
Matsuda's labor policy; I had heard that he had had labor treubles
some time ago but he said rather cryptically that he was having me
difficulty and that the labor union was a company organisation. e
pointed out that the company has a clinic, recreation rooms and
grounds, dormitories and other facilities for workers, and I meted
that the office and factory appeared to be clean and well-lighted.
All in all, one could not help being impressed with this cempasy as
a model of medium-sised industry in Japan.
We also spent peveral hours visiting the buildings of the Atemie
Bemb Casualty Comatssion and talking to its director, Lieutenent
Colonel Carl TEsSMER. The Commission presently occupies a large
building formerly used by the Japanese as a war memorial ceater and
one mall, temporary building. It is about to purchase or lease
from the City of Hiroshime a piece of land in a desirable site to
be used for building its permanent headquartere: Commissiem mnthori-
ties apparently saw no diffioulty in the way of acguiring this proges
t. The Commission is already preparing to operateson a Large soales
it has rearuited almost its complete staff, and has wat appears to
be.excellent, nsw laboratory equipment and a considerable meber ef
station wagons, jeepe, and trucks. Colonel Tessmer was ebliging ia
Uaited States Goverment, as a result of à centract betwedm thme latt
and the Atemie mer Commission. It la tentatively plammind 
stedy of abeut tweaty te thirty years' duratten, asd i
éintended to be ef a diagmessie rather then th
Gommissson hes at preset a sta? a ab

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.96)
molosure to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 251, Apr1l 23, 1949.
-3 -
a small unit in Nagasaki and is establishing a control laboratory 
Kure. Doctor Tessmer stated thet they are receiving excellent ee-
operation from the City and people of Hiroshima, although they are
having some trouble combating the mistaken impression that the Com-
mission's activities are of a secret and military nature. In dis-
cussing the effects of the atomic bomb, Doctor Tessmer said that
the Commission is renlly just beginning its work, but that to date
there is no indication that the bomb created abnormal genetic
effects. He cautioned that it was premature to draw any significant
conclusions in regard to the long-term effect of the atomie bomb.
Japanese residents of Hiroshina were without exception villing
to discuss the atomic bomb, although several said that it was no
longer an ordinary topic of discussion among themselves. All whe
were in Hiroshima at the time could remember vividly where they were
when the bomb burst at eight o'clock on the morning of August 6. 1945.
Few of them were left untouched by the blas:, radiation, or fire thet
followed. Almost every family lost several members. It was diffieult
to comprehend the fatalism of a man who lost his wife and four chil-
dren and said he had closed off that part of his life. The Mayor of
Hiroshime told us that although the off icial number of pereems killen
inclmde the figures for mfss ing and-for matitery paroosh
additional figure is estimated at such as to bring the total af killed
to about 100.000.
We talked at length with two Catholic priests who had lived in
with Father KLEINSoRGE, whose experience was described in John HaY!
Hiroshime -- at the time of the explosion. They have already commemeed
buildins on their former mite and have plans for a large church tomke
atarted in the near future. The priests said that the number of t
parishioners has increased somewhat over prewar figures but that there
has been no great influx of converts to any of the Christian churches
in Hiroshima.
We spent the evening before our departure talking with the Mayor
of Hiroshima, Mr. Shinso HamaI, who told us of some of the diffioulties
the city is facing. Chief of these is the problem of financing recom-
struction. Mr. Hamai said that the city has received liberal rants
from the Mational Diet but that in view of recent budgetary restrictiems
these allotments are likely to be greatly reduced or oliminated. He
pointed to the lack of an effective sewage system and of anything like
a sufficient mumber of schools as primary handicaps, and said that
carefal city planning is in danger of defeat because of the city's
imability to construct the buildings and roads it desires. As evidence
of rehabilitation he pointed to the large number of dwelling units e
in the eity, which new houses with reasonable adequacy about 240, 000
people: Hiroshima's wartime population was 450,000. The supply ef
feod, water, and alectrieity is good: transportation, including that
previded y busses and streetcars, is adequate. Ee said that ire
shima's principal prewar iadustries, ia addisien to the shiphailéias
e, but the needle intustry suffers from Lack

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 251, Apr11 23, 1949.
Mayor Hamai steted that he bad alwaye found United States mili
government officials. whose reglonal headquerters is in Kure, to 
helpful: he said that he had found Lieutenant Goneral H. C. R. momms
commander of the British Commonwealth Occupation Force, which is r
sponsible for the military occupation of Hiroshime Prefecture, eympe-
thetic and cooperative (in spite of certain puhltc pronouncements).
and that General Rctertson had secured the release to the city of
some valuable surplus property. In this connection I had noted con-
siderable grumbling by some of the prople of Hiroshima toward Britisk
and Australian forces, most y becaure they were stiff and unobliging.
particularly as contrasted with American troops and officials: there
is a saying in Hiroshima that the United States cannot like the people
of Hiroshime much because firs: it gave them the atomic bomb and them
1t gave them BCOF (British Commonwealth Occupation Force).
I asked the Mayor about the generel progress of Ocoupation r
forms in the Hiroshima area ai.d he scid they are being well received
and progrersing favorably. Ee stated that the Communist Party in
Hiroshime has little strength. He appeared to feel that the good
job being done iu rebuilding the city. together with the desire af
many civic leaders to make Hiroshima a symbal of peace, had gone far
toward creating favorable politlcei conditions.
Richard B. Finn.

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.96)
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF GEOGRAPHY
Lecten daptas
BERKELEY 4,CALIFORNIA
Lay 12, 1949
5119109 7
894.014/5-1249
OIR/GE S.W..
The State Department
SPECIAL ADVISOR ON GEOGRAPHY
Nashington 25,
MAY 18 1949
D. C.
RECEIVE
Gentlemen:
We should like to know the new International
houndary of Japan. At what point between Formosa
and Japan, also at what point north of Japan. Could
you 've us the date of the fixing of these boundaries
as well as the locat ions. Thank you very mueh for
your assistanco in the matter.
CS/H
Sincergly,
21949
101169
Secretary, Geography

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.84)
MAY 20
AIR MAIL
Im reply refer to
OIR/GE
My dear Mrs. Miller:
Your letter of May 12, 1949 is ressdved.
infernstion regarding "the mow Dnterastie
Japan."
The tresky of pease wish Japen has nh
magotisted, and it la thevetere mst pase
where asher of the houee to 
be establiahed.
sinserely youre,
DQR - NE Unit
T
R.
mm

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.94)
Office Memorandum . aunrreD sTAtES GOv
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
To: NA - Mr. Hommondinger
-1949
DATE: Ootober 31, 1949
FROM : L/P - Conrad E. Snow 
EPARTMENT OF STATE
SUBJECT:
Attached letter from Eastern United Company, Inc. regarding
the term "territory of Japan" and whether this includes the
island of Okinawa
It seems to m- that the Eastern United Company, Inc., should
be advised that the Department of State cannot assume to interpret
the words "territory of Japan" in the instrument in question without
having the instrument before it. They might be advised that Okinawe
was recognized internationally as Japanese territory before the war
and that no trensfer of Japanese territory has taken place. You
might add, of course, that it is occupied by the United States and
will not be returned to Japan upon conclusion of a peace treaty.
/10-2549
223406
V21949
ILED
L:L/P:CESnow:lml
cs
C

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.80)
H.P.P faat28
Could you
gort us an sprinson
an a bain for
anowerong thi
lett.?
NA NOkrmneudnqi

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.93)
EASTERN UNITED COMPANY, INC.
SUITE 623
GENERAL MOTORS UILDING
1778 BROADWAY
NEW YORK 19. N. Y.
VISION OF
HEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
TELEPHONE:
. AllisdUDson -A223
CABLE ADDRESS "ESTUNIKO
bhy nh.
.4224
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
October 25th, 1949
894.014/10-2549
Department of State,
New State Bldg.,
Washington, D. C.
ATT: Mr. John M. Allison,
Room 3152
Gentlemen:
Among other agencies, we hold exclusive franchise for irform Cons
truction for the Far East including the territory of Japan.
There exists some uncertainty as to whether such term as "territory
of Japan" includes the island of Okinawa.
It is our belief that until after peace treaty with Japan has been
signed, legally the ieland of Okinawa constitutes part of Japan and conse-
quently is included in our contract under the term of "territory of Japan".
Any clarification we can receive from you in this connection will enable
us to settle this point with our principals, Airform Construction Co. in Los
Angeles, and needless to mention will be greatly appreciated by us.
Yours very truly
Blu
C. A. Blum, President
cab/er
TE
10V2-1849
FILD
CS/C
Mc
223407

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.93)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL TRADE
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
HEAST MAN AFFAIRS
IT-1040-JAC
CCy. sinsts Commence
of li 04 to
UF STATE13/40.
November 1, 1949
Mr. N. O. Hemmendinger
Office of North East Asian Affairs
Department of State
Washington 25, D. C.
Dear Mr. Hemmendinger:
894.014/11-
In accordance with your telephone conversation with
Mr. Camelio of my staff on November 1, 1949, there is
attached a letter from the Eastern United Company, Inc.,
requesting information concerning the legal definition of
Japan, for direct reply.
We should appreciate a carbon copy of your reply to the
firm for our information.
Very truly yours,
m
eda V. & spemshuda
Ada V. Espenshade, for
Michael Lee, Chief
Far Eastern Branch
Enclosure (1)
894.014
FILED
1949
CS
219843
0/
WJ

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.96)
EASTERN UNITED COMPANY, INC.
SUITE 623
GENERAL MOTORS BUILDING
1775 BROADWAY
NEW YORK 19. N. Y.
TELEPHONE:
JUDSON 6-4223
CABLE ADDRESS "ESTUNIKO"
.4224
October 24th, 1949
OFFICE O
1 OF COMMERO
1949 OCT 25 AM 10 13
U. S. Department of Commerce
Office of International Trade
Far Eastern Division,
Washington, D. C.
Gentlemen:
Among other agencies, we holc exclusive franchise for Airform Cons-
truction for the Far East including the territory of Japan.
There exists a certain amount of uncertainty whether such term as
"territory of Japan" includes the island of Okinawa.
It is our belief that until after peace treaty with Japan has been
signed,legally, the islend of Okinawa constitutes part of Japan and conse-
quently is included in our contract under the term of "territory of Japan".
Any clarification we can receive from you in this connection will enable
us to settle this point with our principals, Airform Construction Co. in
Los Angeles, and needles to mention will be greatly appreciated by us.
Tours very truly
Bw
C. A. Blum, President
cab/er
RECEIVED
OCT 25 194U
Pas Basten B
