894.20293 Military Affairs. Army. Army Posts. Fortifications. Defenses. Military Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., Military Activities Of Japan In China Including Gathering Of Information. Espionage. Propaganda., February (File 1793), part 2 of 2
ID: 894.20293-1793-2   Pages: 308   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.20293-military-affairs-army-5/894.20293%20Military%20Affairs.%20Army.%20Army%20Posts.%20Fortifications.%20Defenses.%20Military%20Instructors%20Advisers.%20%2A%2A%20Country%20In%20Which%20Serving.%2C%20Military%20Activities%20Of%20Japan%20In%20China%20Including%20Gathering%20Of%20Information.%20Espiona%201793-part-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.88)
SECREI
.HC
WAR DEPARTMENT
OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF WAR
STRATEGIC SERVICES UNIT
DefR
25th & E STREETS, N.W.
WASHINGTON 25, D.C.
J/A
21 May 1946
In reply refer to
/CA
MAY 2 21946
L4-10,213
894.2C293/5-2146
: emoranewn for:
r. Jeck. cal
Departmert or state
Jubject:
Jupunese Recidents' nsnocistion in Shanghai--
Eleetion of dvisory Cormittee
 a acher e oransum  forwaried for your niormation.
 wr ( met) reyertot what vnes intor tion has been
o mate bepartmene rom resontatives un the riend.
CS/A
denPaije
894.20293
Juson Puige, Jy
Liaison Officer
Adential
xe
Gex
x
DECLASSIFIED
52146
NND 780069
ByigiAB D. 1≈100/78

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
JAPANESE RESIDENTS' ASSOCIATION
IN SHANGHAI
ELECTION OF ADVISORY COBLITTEE
Strategic Services Unit

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A. INTRODUCTION
Page
1-b.
1. ANNOUNCEMENTS OF ELECTION
85
2
(e)
Number 1
11
2
(b)
Number 2
11
3
(c)
Election Regulations
11
4
(a)
Totel Number of Voters
11
5
2.
EDITORIALS DI SCUSSING THE ELECTION
11
5
(a)
REFORM DAILY NEWS January 15. 1946
11
5
(b)
NORTH CHINA DAILY NEWS, JAN. 24. 1946
6
(c)
REFORM DAILY NEWS January 18, 1946
11
7
(a)
REFORM DAILY NEWS January 26, 1946
11
8
3. CANDIDATES
11
9
(a)
Two Candidates Withdraw
11
.9
(b)
Campaign Statements by Candidates.
11
10
4. ELECTION RESULTS
11
23
5.
ANALYSIS OF ELECTION RESULTS
11
29
PRESS COMMENTS ON THE ELECTION
11
30
(a)
REFORM DAILY NEWS, January 27, 1946
11
30
(b)
REFORM DAILY NEWS, January 28, 1946
11
32
SEORET
1-a.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.97)
-SECHET
Shanghai, 1 March 1946.
ÉLECTICF OF COMMITTEE OF JAPANESE TO ADVISE
THE RESIDENT'S ASSOCIATION, SHANGHAI, CHINA.
A. - INTRODUCTION
Informant advisec that the Japenese in Shanghai - all of
whom are reportedly segregated into the Hongkew section - are
supervised by the following Chinese Orgonizations:
1) JAPYESE SUFERVISION OFFICE.
Under the direction of General Wong, Chief of staff,
Srd Directional army. General Su. Assistent to
General Wong, meintains direct contact with Chungking.
2) FOREIGN DEPARTMENT OF CHINESE GOVERNLIIT.
Lainteins direct contact with Chungking.
3) MILITARY COUNCIL.
Tei Li's organization.
Its. Shanghai branch is a combined office for intelli-
gence and research.
4) SHANGHAI MULI CIPAL COUNCIL.
Under the direction of the Mayor of Shenghai, Chien
Ta Chun, its main task is to seize Japanese industry.
In performing this seizure, the agents of the Chinese
Government are unnecessarily brutal. Japenese civi-
liens are treated as prisoners and forced to work,
without compensation or food, for their Chinese
Lasters. There are numerous cases where the Chinese
heve orutelly beaten both former factory owners and
laborers. On nunberless occasions Japanese who for-
merly ovmed factories expropriated by the Chinese. have
been kidnapped and tortured until they told where their
money was hidden. Following this. their houses would be
roboed and their personal property end money would be
confiscated. According to informants, this does not
appear to be the policy of the Chinese Government, but'
acts by ruffians in official positions. The most
brutal of these Chinese organizations is the C.C.group
under the Chen Brothers. So bad has become this situa-
tion that approximately 90% of the Japanese in Shanghai-
many of whom have spent their entire life here and have
no attachment to Japan, or means of livelihood after
they arrive there - are requesting repatriation.
SECHET
1ob.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
As a result of the treatment received from the Chinese,
the Japanese are more and more looking to the merican for
guidance and protection. They feel that only the United
States can save them from a life of slavery, kidnappings.
torture, and extortion. Accordingly the directives of General
Macarthur, while they have no force and effect in Shanghai,
are being carefully scanned, discussed, and attempts are being
made to comply with them.
The election announced by Tsuchida TSUTOMU, former Japanese
Anbassador at Shanghai, and now head of the Shanghai Japanese
Residents' Association or, as it is sometimes called, the Shang
hai Japanese Self-Governing Association, is an attempt to prepare
the people in the exercise of the ballot under the guidance of
democratic rule.
De jure the Japanese Residents' Association has no authority.
all policy making is vested in the Chinese. But since the Chi-
nese are interested only in "squeeze", the Residents' Association
de facto acts as a public welfare society-advising the Japanese
on food and health - and a law enforcement agency - a volunteer
corp polices the Japanese residents. This volunteer Corp, of
course, lacks authority to correct Chinese hoodlumism.
The Japanese Residents' Association, from time to time, pro-
poses recommendations. to the Chinese, who are too busily engaged
to take any action. Therefore, the announced election, informant
said, is to be used, end is known among the Japanese to be used,
only as schooling in the democratic use of the ballot.
The election was first announced in late December, 1945, and
was to occur in early Jenuary, 1946. However, the election was
postponed a nunber of times, and finally the date was set for
January 26, 1946.
L. ANNOUNCEMENTS OF TITE ELECTION.
(a) Number 1.
On January 11, 1946, the Chinese controlled, but Japanese
published, REFORM DAILY NEW'S carried the following public announ-
cement:
PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE SHANGHAI RESI DENT'S ASSOCIATION (SHANG-
HAI SELF-GOVERNING ASSOCIATION) NUMBER 1.
The Second Election of Representatives Committeemen for Japanese
in Shanghai.
SECRET
2.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
SEORET
On January 26, the election of committeemen for Japanese in
Shanghai will be held. Therefore prospective candidates are
requested to report, meeting the following:
1) qualifications of candidates
Man or Wonen. 25 years of age or over, as of the 1st
of Jenuary, 1946.
2) a) Place and time of reporting
Receiving will begin at 10 o'clock, 12 January, and will
end on the l4th of the seme month. Receiving hours are
from 10 M to 4 PM.
b) Report to the election office on the third floor of
the Residents' Association.
3) Mode of reporting
These candidates or nominators (people possessing quali-
fications for the elections must fill in the required
matters on the provided paper at the Election Office.
Further, when you come to nominate someone else his
signature must also appear.
11 Jaunary 1946
Head of Shanghai Residents' Association
Tsuchida Tsutomu
(b) Mumber 2.
PUBLIC ANHOUN CEMENT OF THE SHANGHAI RESI DENTS' ASSOCIATION NUMBER2.
The Rules of the hepresentative Committee of Japanese in Shanghai
are decided as follows end are executed the same day.
The iules of the Representative Committee of Japanese in Shanghai.
ARTICLE l In order to contribute to the promotion (welfare, pro-
gress) of self government, the Shanghai Japanese Residents Associa-
tion will confer with the Rep. Com. of Jao. In Shanghai (R.C.J.S.)
ARTICLE II Concerning the promotion of self-government of Japanese
Abroad (in Shanghai) the R.C.J.S. will deliberate end decide on
important matters.
ARTICLE III The R.C.J.S. will be composed of the following Commi-
tteemen:
SECHET
3.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.98)
BEORET
25 by public election
5 district and sub-district heads
ARTICLE IV The head of the Japanese Residents Association (J.R.A.)
will convoke the R.C.J.S.
ARTICLE V The term of office of the committeemen of the R.C.J.S.
will be six months.
ARTICLE VI The head of the J.R.A. will decide what bills must be
referred to the R.C.J.S.
ARTICLE VII The R.C.J.S. can make proposals to the head of the J.R.A.
concerning the promotion of self-government of Japanese-Abroad (in
Shanghai)
ARTICLE VIII Matters among those decided upon by the R.C.J.S. which
the head of the J.R.. recognizes as necessary will, receiving the
authorization of the Shenghai Japanese (abroad) Control Office
(Chinese). be carried out.
ARTICLE IX Besides the above rules, the promotion of the committee,
the rules of election of committeemen, rules of proceedings, and
other important matters, will be decided separately.
11 January 1946
Head of the J.R.A..
Tsuchida Tsutomu
(c) ELECTION REGULATIONS
Te election regulations ennounced by the Japanese Association
on January 25 are as follows:
1. The balloting is to take place simultaneously in all four
districts of the segregation area between 8 e.m. and 4 p.m. on
January 26, 1946.
2. As a rule, one polling-booth is to be erected by each Poa
chia or neighborhood unit. However, two or three voting places
can be established by the same neighborhood unit at different loca-
lities for the benefit of voters in view of the present communica-
tion difficulties.
3. A voter is to proceed to a specified polling-station and
receive a ballot after he or she is checked with the voters' list.
The names of 7Ocandidates are printed on the ballot. A voter is
to select ten candidates and draw circles directly above the names
SECRET
4.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
of the selected ten. The selection of less than ten candidates
is permissible, but that of more than ten is restricted. A
ballot bearing other marks than circles above the names of
selected candidates is also invalid. The circles should be
drawn clearly directly above the names of selected candidates
in oráer to avoid confusion.
(a) THE TOTAL NUMBER OF VOTERS.
The Election Committee of the Japanese Association announced
on January 20 that a total number of Japanese eligible for votes
(Japanese men and women over 20 years of age) aggregated to
48,748.
This figure included the Japanese repatriated on board the
shinyu art which sailed from Shanghai on January 23, but did
not include those who were concentrated at the processing center
to be repatriated aboard the Enoshima Maru which sailed on
January 22.
The number of voters in each district in the segregation area
is:
First district (downtown section)
36,904
Second district(Dixwell Rd area )
6,539
Third district (Yangtzepoo area )
1,479
Fourth district (Kiangwan area
3,826
TOTAL
48,748
2. EDI TORIALS DISCUSSING THE ELECTION
(a) REFORM DAILY NEWS, January 15, 1946.
DEMOCRATIC ELECTION CAMPAIGN IN FULL
SWING IN HONGKEW
With only four days left until the election day, the campaign
for a pocket-size "general election" to select members of the
Japanese Association's Committee of Representatives is in full
swing. 72 cendidates commanding the keen interest of 80,000 local
Japanese in their campaign speeches, the Japanese-language Reform
Daily News reported today.
Holding an election campaign for the first time in a democratic
manner, each candidate briefly addresses the audience gathered at the
conference room of the Japanese Association, a Hongkew theater, a
factory and other improvised cempaign halls specified by the Asso-
ciation. The mutual aid. repatriation procedure, livelihood after
SECRET
5.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Japenese repatriates returned home, democratization of the
Japanese Association and woman suffrage are main subjects on
their pletform.
"If some of locel Japanese who jeered the election and
mockingly termed the cand dates as Shenghai MP's (members of
the Parliament) attended one of the campaign meetings, they
would be impressed by sincere and serious attitude of the
audience and will be forced to reconsider their attitude, " the
Heform Daily News commented.
Juaging from the response of the audience, local Japanese
mostly keenly interested in the question of their livelihood
after they are repatriated to Japan, the paper said.
In connection with the forthcoming election, a Japanese in
the Vox Fopuli column of the paper todey wrote that it should
be ascertained whether or not "undesirable elements" mentioned
in General Macarthur's purge directive are among the candidates.
Cam aign speeches he heard led him to a fear that some of the
candidates might have been backed by reactionary groups singled
out by the directive.
If undemocratic people of the past are elected through the
first general election helc by the Japenese in this metropolitan
city of Shanghei with different nationals closely watching, the
settlement of various problems facing local Japenese civilians
will become more difficult and their life in the segregation
district more difficult, the letter-writer said.
In connection with the democratization of Japen and re-edu-
cation of local Japenese, the significance of the coming election
cannot be over-emphasized, concluded.
(b) HORTH CHINA DAILY NEWS, JenurY 24, 1946.
The NORTH CHINA DAILY NEWS is an English languege newspaper,
published at Shanghai, China. It exhibits a strong pro-British
tendency.
On January 24, 1946, this peper reported as a news story
the editoriel of the REFORM DAILY NEWS on January 15, 1946, and
added the following new information:
"Three Japanese, members of the Society of Japanese Democra-
tic Revolution, arrived from Chungking to take part in cultural
enlightenment activities being conducted by the Chinese Ministry
of Publicity to re-educate local Japanese, according to the
Japanese-language Reform Daily News.
SEORET
6.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.98)
DORET
They are Osamu Haruba, Jiro Kate anā Suehiko Moriyama.
(c) REFORM DAILY NEWS. January 18, 1946.
Editorial:
Enthusiasm oflocal Japanese for J.A. election.
The election of members of the Committee of Representative of
the Japanese Association will be held on January 26 after consi-
derable deley andconfusion have been caused. The election which
is to revise the Association's Advisory Committee into an executive
committee by selection its members by popular votes was originally
set for January 7. The election is to be held in accordance with
an directive issued in December last year by the Japanese Civilian
Control Office to strengthen the Japenese Association. It was
postponed dueto irregularities unintentionally committed by candi-
dates in announcing their candidacy and elso due to confusion
caused at the meeting oforiginal candidates, which was called by
the Association to decide whether or not the election should be
held on the scheduled date. January 14.
It is regrettable that ∞ nfusion has been caused and irregula
rities committed in connection with the election which was an
opportunity given to the Japanese by Chinese authorities through
their goodwill in order to train 80,000 local Japanese in democratic
politics and strengthen the local Japanese Association. It is
possibly due to the fact that held under fascistic militari sm for
years, theJapanese have been forcibly alienated from politics,
and the Japanese Association has failed to exercise enough care to
the election routine matters because of its unfamiliarity. However,
it cannot be denied that it is also due to the lack of enthusiasm
and efforts to democratic ways on the part of the local Japanese.
The Japanese in China who have been more or less working for
Japen's imperialism are now in a position to grasp the cold fact,
their defeat, more clearly than the people in general in Japan.
They should hate fascistic militeri sm more deeply than those at
home. However, it is regrettable that they have so far failed to
show enthusiasm endmake efforts for democratic ways. This might
be explained by the fact that most of the Japanesein China have
not been in China for long and they have during the war been
forced to cooperate directly with the military and they maintain
their ideological and emotional tendencies thus gained by the mere
force to habit.
Nevertheless, it should be noted that press reports aaid part
of Japanese prisoners of war and civilians in Shanghai, still mis-
led by militarism. are conducting underground activities. It is
reported recently from Tokyo that Foreign Minister Yoshida invited
SECRET
7.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
British correspondents and made a pro-British gesture in a clumsy
and childish attempt to alienate Britain from theUnited States.
If the report is true, the Japanese in Chine should be careful not
to beinfluenced by the motive behind such gesture.
In vi ew of the above-mentioned tendencies, efforts should not
be sparet to block the way to the Committee of Representatives of
"undesirable elements" among the candidates, and crush underhanded
attempts of remaining elements of militarism. The local Japanese
should prepare themselves for democratic ways by creating the
Committee of Representatives in the true sense of democracy and by
acquainting themselves with politics though in a minor way.
(a) THE REFORM DAILY NEWS. January 26, 1946.
Editorial: Election of the Japanese Association's Committee
of Representatives.
The election of members of the Committee of Representatives of
the Japenese Association will be held today, while 70 candidates
who completed their election campaign yesterday now quietly await
the judgement of 80.000 local Japanese. We hope that no Japanese
will consider himself too busy preparing for repatriation to cast
his vote. If there is such a Japanese, we hope that his neighbors
will correct him and make him go to the voting place before the
deadline, 4 p.m. All Japanese must learn whether or not their
repatriation is close, whether or not they wish to remain in China
their votes are closely related to the interests of local Japanese
residents and also to the reconstruction of Japan. There is a
multitude of problems to be solved before we can well rehabilitate
ourselves. Eech vote counts in selecting our representatives who
will bear chief responsibility in settling the questions of repe-
triation, rehabilitation and reconstruction of Japan.
Today's election is significant in that it will be held in
this international city of Shanghai with various nationals closely
following it and that it will be held with Japanese men and women
over 20 years of age equally having the voting right for the first
time in the Japenese history. It is also being held amost two
months ahead of the general elections to be held in Japan. If many
local Japanese failed to vote in this election, the Japanese cannot
deny an allegation that they don't know anything about democracy.
And, it will be detrimental to the construction of a free Japan
under a peace-loving and responsible government supported by the
free will of the people, an early realization of which we earnestly
hope.
Through the painful defeat of Japan, we gain the right to vote.
By exercising this voting right, we fulfil our responsibility first
to the self-governing of local Japanese and secondly to our country.
SEGRET
8.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
If a Japanese failed to vote today, he is neglecting his duty as
a Japanese. It is true that a democratic election has been made
something remote from our life. Especially, for the Japanese
women. this is the first time that they exercise the right to
vote. They should cooperate and see that no onewill fail to vote.
Lastly, it should be mentioned that campaign activities of the
cendidates for last eight days are praiseworthy, They proved
themselves as trustworthy pioneers of a democretic Japan. The
Japanese Association also should be praised for its efforts to
prevent absentees. Our deep gratitude is due to Chinese authori-
ties for their magnanimous attitude toward the election activities
among the Japanese.
Two articles in the supplement section also dealt with the
election to be held today, urging the Japanese not to fail to vote.
3. CANDIDATES
(a) Two candidates withdraw:
The Reform News
Wednesday, 16 January 1946, the following article appeared:
THE BATTLE OF TONGUES BEGINS ON THE 17th. TWO CANDIDATES WITHDRAW
There were seventy two candidates for election to the R.C.J.S.. but
two, Shirazawa Shegen, and Kanazawa Shujima withdrew beceuse of
circumstences. Their withdrawal was accepted and that leaves 70
candidates. On the l7th will begin the lively battle of tongues.
(b) Campaign statements by Candidates.
Of 70 candidates, the above 58 candidates published their
campaign statements in the Reform Daily News. Each statement was
limited to 200 words in Japanese. The statements were published on
January 20, 1946, six days before the election.
1. SHUNNOSUKE ASHIZAWA
I was born in Shanghai 40 years ago and I consider this city as
my last resting place. While I reflect upon my past life after
facing the cold fact, Japan's defeat, I cannot help loving this
city and its people. Two problems confronting local Japenese
SECRET
9.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
residents now are their mutual aid and their repatriation. I
hope that the Japanese Association would deal with these problems
from warm humanitarian viewpoint, and that new Sino-Japanese rela-
tions which are free from hatred and grudge would start in Shanghei.
Now that Japan is defeated, the Japanese Association's duties are
to take care of the Japanese leaving, ensure the livelihood of those
still remaining and contribute to the establishment of new Sino-
Japanese relations. I wish to do my very best for these three things
here in Shanghai which I consider as my home.
2. SETSU TAKEMOTO - The struggle for existence.
(1) No Japanese should forfeit their right to vote. They should
display unity though they are a defeated people. (2) Organize A11
Shanghai Jepenese Mutual Aid Federation coordinating similar
organizations formed by segregation cistricts, professional groups
and prefectural groups. (3) Humenitarianism should be upheld in
dealing with repatriation problems and safeguard Japanese evacuees
from cold and hunger. (4) Members of the Committee of Representa-
tives of the Japanese Association must make sacrificing efforts to
rehabilitate local Japanese after they returned to Japan. (5) The
destitutes should be helped by the money remitted to Japan by the
wealthy people who could afford to send money at such an unfavorable
exchenge rate of 70 CRB dollars to one yen. (6) Equal protection
of the livelihood on Japan of those who were locally discharged from
the armed forces after the Japenese surrender and didnot have an
opportunity to remit Y30.000 which was permitted to each Japanese
family in Shanghai. (7) Public investigation of the wealthy Japanese
who refuse to donate to the mutual aid fund. (8) Unite the poor to
win their right to live.
3. KAZUO NAKAJIMA - My political vieWS.
Sincerity is my motto. Sincerity is prerequisite to politics.
Ly friends recommended me as a candidate, andI promise my best
effort, if elected. I need your uidance and help.
4. SHOJIFO TANAKA - Strengthening of self-governing spirit.
Have you ever visited the toilet of the Japanese Association?
Have you noticed that its steirways and rooms were all dirty? This
made me think. Self-governing begins with profound self-reflection.
The lessons I learned during my 20 years in China make me stress the fol-
lowing points. (1) The strengthening of self-governing spirit through
self-reflection. (2) The mutual aid drive through respect of popular
wishes and cooperative spirit. (3) collection of the mutual aid fund.
(4) Settlement of family troubles. (5) Immediate settlement of
Japanese properties, both private and public. (6) Prevention of
unnecessary spending and criminal acts. (7) Speedy and smooth
SECRET
10.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
SEORET
execution of repatriation affairs.
5. MASA ABE (female) - Direct route to kitchen.
1. Japanese women should be represented at importent offices
such as the Japenese Association and pao chia or neighborhood
units. 2. Functions of the Japanese Association should be
directly connected with domestic economy which is in charge of
women. 3. Wishes of women and children should be reflected in
the welfare, mutual aid and cultural activities of the Association.
4. In connection with the Japanese repatriation, women should be
chosen as representatives in order to attend to personal belongings
of women and children and their needs on a repatriation boat.
5. Equal participation of men and women to the self-governing life
here by eliminating the former custom of holding government offi-
cials superior to non-official civiliens and men to women.
6. MAONORI FUJII - Sincerity and practicalibity.
A friend of mine who is considered as an able man mong the
Japanese government officials in Shanghai advised me that I should
refrain from running for the local election and should go back to
Japan as soon as possible in view of the forthcoming geeral elections
in Japan. However, all my friends urged me to announce my candidacy.
I pledge my best effort to solve a multitude of problems confronting
local Japanese. Definite plans will be explained in my cempaign
speeches. I am determined to carry them out with true sincerity.
7. HIKARU MURAOKA - Renovation of education.
1. Establishment of new educational policies for Japan, clear
and lively. 2. Military influences should be wiped out from schools
and man's freedom should be respected to advance character education.
3. Standerdization and formalism in education should be destroyed
give way to equal opportunity and ability-first principles. 4.
Encouragement of women's social consciousness and social education.
5. Betterment of neighborhood units' schools and educational faci-
lities. 6. Arrangements for transfer of local Japanese students to
schools in Japan. 7. upervision and guidance of children in the
segregation area. 8. Completion of mutual aid and medical facili-
ties. 9. The mutual aid organization for local Japanese after they
returned to Japan.
8. SUETO YOSHI DA - Tears.
I cannot scientifically analyse tears as college graduates would
SECRET
11.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
do. But I do know why tears are shed and the bitterness behind
them. I. will bddly carry out what I believe. This is no time
to play with theories. The only way for salvation is to carry
out what one believes.
9. AKIRA KITAMURA - Sincerity in practice.
There is nothing special or extraordinary about "national
policies" advocated following the Japanese surrender, and they
do not go beyond our common sense. Local Japanese themselves
perfectly know that they or Japanesenational in general should
do at present and in the future. I will make sincere efforts to
see the people's wishes be interpreted into action. I hate to
announce empty slogans.
10. KIYOSHI SHOJI - Repatriation and mutual aid.
Knowing my limited abilities, I announced my candidacy upon
recommendation by the Federation of Mutual Aid Organizations.
We, Japanese, once contributed to he world peace as a first-class
nation. So, when we repatriate, let's do it in a fitting manner.
I consider it my main duty to attend to repatriation problems and
settle the question of repatriates' properties and push the mutual
aid drive so that no Japanese will die from hunger or cold.
11. YOSHIKI HOSHINO - Abolition of the Emperor system.
My cherished opinion is that the Emperor system should be
abolished and eternal friendship between China and Japan be esta
blished. The misunderstanding betweenthe two nations cannot be
eliminated wi thout abandoning the idea of maintaining Japan's
policy. If local Japanese convert themselves and adopt reformed
ideas, and willing to win the support of Chinese public opinion.
the questions of their repatriation, livelihood and their chance
of remaining in China will improve. As an appropriate and effec-
tive measure to strengthen the mutual aid movement which is the
most pressing problem, the collection of large donations must be
enforced in drestic manner. he Jepanese "leaders" who are unable to
enforce this should retire. The election system should be adopted
for the presidency of the Japanese Association to select a Japanese
who has confidence and courage to enforce this. I depend on the
self-awakening of local Japenese.
12. TAE SHIMAMOTO (female) - For the happiness of women.
The final objective of woman suffrege is the happiness of
women. If the problems of a new Japen are left in the hands of
men, tragedies in the past will be repeated. The Japanese women
SDOREP
12.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
should protect their own rights so that not only political.
questions, but their rights relating to education, labor, eco-
nomic and financiel matters, marriage and divorce, and children
will be settled with men and women on equal footing and without
class feeling. Protection and guidance of young single women,
orphans, mothers with infants and mothers in family way are needed
when they are repatriated. Local Japanese women and children need
a plan for special protection and consideration.
13. NAZEMATSU TOKOYAMA - Democratic politics.
In a manner never known in Japan, the members of the Committee
of Representatives of the Japenese Association will be elected in
an election which will be held ahead of the generel elections to
be held in Japen, with men and women equally enjoying the right to
vote. What kind of man you should elect? The "big shots" who
approved the aggressive war and led Japan to defeat must not be
elected. Those who can take care of their own affairs and at the
same time have courage to take care of troubles of others should be
cho sen.
14. ICHIRO CHIYODA - Speaking as a demobilized soldier.
I am a penniless ex-soldier locally released. Like many others.
I have been living a precarious life. But, I now stand as a
Japanese youth on whose shoulders rests the reconstruction of
Japan. I might add that most of Japanese youths are ex-soldiers.
I am running for the election to give e helping hand to my unfor
tunate buddies in Shanghai and encourage them. From the view-
point of a soldier released in China, I will approach the question
of repatriation, the assurance of livelihood, though problems and
protection of bereaved families. In so doing, I will work for the
fruition of democracy in Japan.
15. TOSHIO KAMIMURA - Strengthening of the Japanese Association.
Democratic unity should be brought about among Japanese organi-
zations formed here. In order to strengthen the Japanese Association,
I suggest: 1. Rationalization of repatriation procedure. 2. Arrange
ments for the livelihood of local Japanese after they returned to
Japan. 3. Just compensation by the Japanese government for losses
suffered by local Japanese. 4. Jobs for local Japanese after they
returned. 5. Promotion of mutual aid and charity medical treatment
for local Japanese. 6. To enliven the life of local Japanese by
theatrical performance end other cultural media and furniah correct
information on the current conditions in Japan.
BEORDT
15.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
16. HIDEO OHTA - Mutual responsibilities.
Local Japenese should exert themselves for the realization
of harmonious relations between China and Japan, reconstruction
of Japan and world peace by justly reflecting on our repentant
life. We should awaken to our mutual responsibilities in running
a self-governing body and contribute will our might to its mooth
operation. At the same time, we should help each other in sol-
ving many problems relating to our daily life as they greatly
influence our future course.
17. HIHOTAKA KAWAGUCHI - My greetings as a candidate.
If not properly understcod, repentance leads to withering.
If discussion does not accompany action, 80,O00 local Japanese
do not benefit from it. They are to be repatriated sooner or
later. Their problems must be attended to and settled to today
to alleviate their burden. I will fight with social justice as
my constent belief.
18. YOSHIO NISHIMURA - The object of our existence.
Man considers the appreciation of his true value as the
object of his existence. His true velue cannot be judged by his
material possessions. To judge a man by his material possessions
is to lower the intelligence of a human being to that of a pig.
19. SHUNICHI USHIYAMA - On medical charity.
As a large number of overseas Japanese is coming back to a
defeated Japan, I am afraid many diseases will be brought in with
them. Therefore, we, the Japanese in Shanghei, must be careful
about our health so that we can go back to our mother country in
good health. Much neede is a health consultation office where
local Japanese are able to consult with doctors in an easy atmo
phere. I will devote my limited abilities for this end.
20. ANPEI AGAKA - Entrusted with your happiness.
If I am elected. I as a public servant will strive for the
achievement of the following aims: 1. The repatriation of local
Japaneae without a single Japanese felling off. 2. Mutual aid
to completely avoid stervation. 3. Medical facilities for the sikk
4. Promotion of neighborhood love among Japanese residents.
5. Better environment and educationel facilities for children.
6. Elimination of egoistic elements for the construction of a new
Japan end introduction of democratic ideas.
SECRET
14.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
21. HIROBUMI SEKIGUCHI - Banner for reconstruction.
Democracy now leads the entire world. Politics not suppor-
ted by public opinion is like a fish out of water. We must deny
and rise above the ideologies of the past to form our new national
spirit. No matter how severe and stern the Potsdam terms are, the
younger and superior generation will share the burden of recongtruo
ting Japan. As the vanguard of new Japan, we will mobilize the
entire nation's political energy and direct it to a new world con-
cept in order to gain march to a leading position in the world.
22. TAKASHI TAMURA - Three things to be destroyed.
There are three things to be destroyed - three Ban's. Keban
(briefcase) representing financial power, Kanban (front) represen-
ting political bloc system. In order to ensure the self-governing
by the people. the following must be achieved; 1. Mutual aid move
ment and special taxes to help the needy. 2. Rationalization of
repatriation. 3. woman suffrage. 4. Relief measures for teachers
and employees of the former government-subsidized companies who
have been poorly paid. 5. Cooperation among local Japanese after.
they returned to Japan. 6. The Sino-Japanese friendship.
23. AIKO DOI (female) - Speaking from a woman's viewpoint.
I have nothing to add to my previous campaign statement. Only
action is left. A ting from woman's viewpoints we should make
efforts to make mef reconsider their self-centered ideas in the
past and win equal rights. Among the questions left untouched is
a public explanation of the fees and donations of the former Emer
gency Japanese Women's Society which was a guiding organization for
Japanese women in the wartime. We demand an explanation from the
former key officials of this organization as to their responsibili-
ties and we appeal to their conscience. This is the starting point
of our activities.
24. TSUNEO SEKINE - To brighten our life.
Mutual aid and repatriation - the problems of Shanghai Japa-
nese are identical with those of the former employees of the Central
China Railways Company. We, members of the Union of CCRC employees,
oppose to "Back-stage political dealings." I suppose that the young
intelligentia is busi ly engaged in the reconstruction of Japan.
We organized our union with our own hand, and this time we should
not fail to put our idees into practice. We notice many old stains
in the life of local Japanese. Let's take this opportunity to
brighten the life in the segregation area.
SEORET
15.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.98)
S E C R ET
25. KEIJI EBINA - True salvation.
This is the time to rise for us, doctors, who have been
often regarded as an individualist. Until 80,000 Japanese safely
return to Japan, it is our duty to safeguard their health which is
essential to their new life. We, doctors, are destined to save
the masses until we die. Particularly we are friends of the
working people who have been poorly rewarded for their labor and
are having difficulties in earning their daily bread.
26. KIYOTA TSUJII - nnouncing my candidacy.
Who will give a hope for the Japenese in the segregation di
trict, who are confronted with many worries ? A new hope will not
come by accusing the wrong doings in the past. It will arise from
earnest and sincere action of the whole Japanese nation.
27. KEN HOkIUCHI - Let's begin with problems within our reach.
We now face a colc fact - our defeat. Let's be modest, let's
manfully face the truth. However, we should not be servile. We
must maintain our undaunted spirit. "We want early and smooth re
patriation." "Can anything be done about the sealed factories?
These voices should be taken up faithfully. Let's tackle concrete
problems within our reach.
28. KAORU SEKIMORI - Four questions.
I am not running for the eletion for the sake of eloquent
campaign speech or clever argument. Acting as a public servant of
80.Oco local Japanese, I will do my best to settle the following
four questions: 1. The livelihood of Japanese be made stable while
they are in Shanghai. 2. safe return to Japan . 3. Increase the
present quota of 30 kilograms of personal belongings each Japanese
is permitted to take to 100 kilograms. 4. Increase Y1 O00 each
Jepanese repatriate allowed to take to Y1o, Ooo. I don't think
these are unreasonable requests.
29. CHUTARO KOMIYA - Announcing my candidacy.
If elected, I will work for (1) the increase of personal be-
longings each Japanese evauee is permitted to take, (2) immediate
relief measures for the destitutes, (3) respect for civil rights
and thorough democratization of Japanese life and (4) demand for
government subsidies for overseas Japanese upon their return.
30. TSUKUMO OYAMA - Reflecting on "fighting".
I stend as a candidate because I am not satisfied with the
S E C R E T
16.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
S E C R ET
"fighting" method adopted by a certain group, which is shaking the
foundation of the Japenese Association. I believe that we must
override this group for the sake of reconstructing Jepen. Destruc-
tion ceased with the end of the war. I am not referring to
destruction for the sake of construction, but destruction for the
sake of destruction acts contrary to winning of the people's heart
which is most urgently needed at present. We ere eli interested
in the stabilization of livelihood, smooth prosecution of repatria
tion affairs, mutual aid after returning to Japan and settlement
of properties to be left behind. The people's heart can be won. if
properly done.
31. KAZUO NAKAMURA - You can't live on dream.
Policies which do not reflect the people's voices. policies
which ignore realities in Shanghai cause a chaotic situation. You
cannot live on discussion, paper plan and dream. Politics, not
accompanying results, produces nothing but dissatisfaction. I
propose the implement of social policies based on democracy.
32. GORO NISHIMURA Ready to work in the background.
As I have no interest in political activities or social posi-
tion, I have never run for a public post. Meeting a grave situation
such as this for the first time in 63 years of my life, 41 years of
whichvere spent in China, I announced my candidature to fulfil my
duties as a Japanese resident and as  Jepanese who wish to remain
in China and at the same time repay whatever I can to China to whom
I owe a lot. Though I am not young anymore, I am ready for hard
work in the background and I am happy to work as my conscience tells
me.
33. MORIHITO SUWABE - The goal of my course.
In handling the most urgent question, repatriation and mutual
aid, much needed is e "firm hand" end "brightness." We must show
what we are in negotiating with Chinese and Allied authorities, and
earnest efforts and enthusiasm should take place of unnecessary
modesty and fear. Thus, a way for new life for the Japanese after
they returned to Japen may be found. and more positive mutual aid
measures can be discovered. I have been a priest, a newspaperman
and en advisor to a puppet government. I am a tough number who
kmows how to push his way through, has tough skina dna a tender heart
34. KOI CHI KAWANAKA - Why I stand as a candidate.
Watching Japanese residents after Nippon's surrender, they seem
to be inaulging in discussion of theroies an neglecting their
practice. There ere many questions the Japanese should consider and
S E C R. E T
17.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
there will be many others to be appealed to the Chinese authori-
ties. I stand as a candidate because I believe that the waste of
time end mental energy and the basence of action are indeed regret-
table.
35. TAMIC OKUDA - Self-awakening of the working class.
We, the Federation of Mutual Aia Organizations. have been
concentrating our efforts to the solution of important problems
relating to the Japanese repatriation and mutual aid. We now
strongly advocate that these two vitai problems be settled to meet
the wishes and for the benefit of the working class. All Japanese
problens must be & lved through the awekening and unity of the
vorking class.
56. TOSHIC SHUTO - Reconstruction of Japan.
1. A thoroughgoing censure of Japan in the past and restoration
and reconstruction of by Japanese youths. 2. True Sino-Japanese
cooperation through friendship between Chinese and Japanese youths.
37. SEIJI SATO - Rise, Youngmen!
I am addressing to Japanese youths. The defective social sys-
tem has made them spiritless and taight them to kowtow to the power.
Their young strength is needed today more than ever. Think of the
active part Japanese youths played in the Meiji Restoration. Jape-
nese youths in Shanghai must be united to settle various problems.
I am 25 years old, and I am out to test my strength.
38. KUAO OHNO - Our life and democracy.
Different in nature from the generel elections to be held in
Japen, the forthcoming election here is to train 80,00 locel
Japanese in democratic politics and at the same time strengthen the
Japanese Association. The main issue is to let local Japanese live
a stable life while they are here, go back to Japan with less
worries and actively participate in the construction of a democatic
Japan after they reached Japen. This naturally includes the ques-
tion of persona effects they are permitted to take and that of
money remittance. In short. we would like to strengthen the
Jananese Association so that we can voice our wishes even as a
defeated people.
39. YOSHITO MORICHIKA - Schools in Japan.
The main worry of Japanese parents in Shanghai is how their
children of school age would be transferred to schools in Japan
SECRET
18.

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
S E C R E T
after they returned to their mother country. We, grown-ups, who
are responsible for the present pitiful condition ofJapan, must
fully realize that Japanese children are to bear the burden of
building Japan oftomorrow. For their benefit, I suggest: 1. prio-
rity be given to the families with school children in giving.
relief aid, 2. Priority be given to shool children in repatriation.
3. local aducation facilities be maintained until the last moment.
4. an appeel be made to the Education Ministry to take care of
children of Japanese repatriates.
40. SHINICHI SAKAI - How we should behave.
We should learn through our defeat a pure Asiatic spirit.
Ascientific social system based on the Asiatic spirit is a prere-
quisite to the restoration of Japan. Our daily life in the segre-
gation district should not be a series ofSundays. Each day should
be spent for the training of our will to build a new Japan. The
Japanese should get out of negative end hysteric idleness.
41. NAMISHIRO ISHIDA - An old man behind a lunch-counter.
I am an olå man behind a lunch-counter. My speciality is to
prepare tasty dishes from inexpensive cooking material. I am
running for the election because I feel that I can and should give
full play to my special ability in solving the urgent questions,
repatriation and mutual aid. My material is the important and
pressing problem of local Japanese. It's good enough for me, and
you can depend on my skill for the rest.
42. YASUO MAUYMI - Repetriation and mutual aid.
Our vital problems are repatriation and mutual aid. The
presnet quote system in selecting repatriates should be changed.
The number of repatriates should be allocated to each district in
proportion to the number of those who wish for an early repatria-
tion. The repatriation procedure should be made more systematic.
As to mutual aid. over-ell Shanghai Federation of Mutual Aid
Organizations must be formed immediately.
43. KAZUTO MIYAKA - Japanese relief by the Japanese.
Does the authorities know that there are many who no longer
have anything to sell to make a living? Do they have any definite
pl n to meet the imminent crisis? Meetings have been held and
organizations formed. but Japanese children selling candies in the
street have been neglected. Drastic measures should be taken to
help the poor.
S E C R E T
19.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
44. TADAICHI NAGAMINE - My personal views.
I am ready to work as your public servant for the assurance
of stable life in Shanghai as well as in Japan, and for the
Japanese to come back to China. I am also interested in the
question of children of the Sino-Japnese parentage.
45. HAMAKO YOSHIMOTO - For the seke of Japenese women.
Thether elected or not, you might think it impudent for a
26-yeur-cld girl like me to stand as a candidate. But I hope you
understand my feeling that I have to. Action speaks louder than
words. I would like to serve you as your good companion. There
are many things in women's feelings, which men do not understand.
I will do my best for the sake of Japanese women.
46. KIYO ATSU ADADA - Our attitude toward reconstruction.
hat our mother country needs is not slander or desperation.
What is needed is an earnest desire to build a new Japan, which
requires a nationel life based on freedom. The local problems
can be smoothly settled by consulting with those charged with
them.
47. EISHO SOEJIMA - Key to the rehabilitation of Shanghai Jape-
nese.
I pledge my utmost effort to brighten the life of local
Japanese by eliminating spiritual and material bottlenecks. To do
this. I advocate: 1. An appeal be made to the Chinese authorities
to ease the repatriation regulations, 2. more efficiency in the
Japanese Association and closer ties between the Chinese authori-
ties and the Japenese Association, 3. individualism be discouraged
to make the mutual aid drive successful, 4. vigorous training for
the Japanese in democratic self-governing.
48. Hozumi TANAKA - True strength.
True friendship should be promoted among the Japanese who now
find themselves in a disheartening environment. Lip-service and
pretention produces no results. The soirit of self-sacrifice will
help those who lost hope or beceme skeptical. My power is limited..
but if those who share the same view are united, their influence will
be great.
SECRET
20.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
49. HIROYOSHI YUBE - I'11 fight.
I'll fight and will not give up my hope until I die. Ifll
fight to save my fellow countrymen from starvation. Men and women.
young and ola, all the Japanese must unite, to reconstruct Japan.
He who refuses to share the same fate with other Japanese is an
enemy of the Japanese people, and an obstructer to the reconstruc-
tion of Japan. I'll fight against this enemy of the Japanese people.
50. ISAMU OKAZAKI - My impression as a candidate.
It is very difficult to express my opinion completely in a
small space which is given me --- 200 words. I express my opinion
partly here. I wish to do my best as far as I am in Shanghai.
1. Realization of relief plane of the Japanese nationals in
henghai.
2. Establishment of a more concrete plan fcr the speedy repa-
triation of the Japanese in Shanghei nd improvement of treatment
of those who are repatriated.
3. Unified movement for employment after returning to Japan.
51. KAZUO MATSUNAGA - For 80, C00 Japanese in Shanghai.
1. More concrete steps be taken for the repatriation of the
Japanese in Shanghai.
2. More positive attitude be taken for the relief work of
80,000 Japanese in Shanghai.
3. More concrete promises be given to those who will remain
in Shanghai as technical employees of the Chinese organs.
These are only a part of my opinion. I believe that every
problem of the Japanese in Shanghai should be decided by the
entire will of us. I will do my best to solve every problem for
the 80.000 Japanese in Shanghai.
52. KIICHIRO TAZAIA - Realization of our democracy.
Too much are said about democracy among Japanese in Shanghai.
but there is no action. I declare that it is very hard to mate-
rialize our democracy. We must look into our actual life and do
our best to make our daily life democratic as much as possible.
At present I voice that more democratic method is necessary for
the relief work of the Japanese nationals in Shanghai.
SECRET
21.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
53. RIHEI SAKURAI - I want to do my utmost effort.
1. Since the establishment of the Japanese Association, I
have taken the responsibility for the education of the young
people in Shanghai and I have paid my utmost effort in this line.
Now that the speedy repatriation of them beceme more important
problem, I will do my best for satisfactory conclusion of their
education together with the complete employment of school teachers
in Shanghai when they returned to Japan.
2. Japan is now about to re-born as a peace-loving nation.
At this moment, I should like to strongly voice our reconsidera-
tion of out attitude in the past and present.
54. SHIGEO FUJITA - Healthy education for the young.
I believe that the education of the young people in Shanghai
must be continued even in Shanghai, because these young people
will hold the responsibility in futurefor the re-construction of
Japan. For the students in primary school and secondary school,
we must arrange everything which is necessary in order to make
them enter schools in Japan. We must also do our best to give
them every chance to study even in Shanghai. This must be conti-
nued until the very moment that they will be repatriated.
55. KOTARO HIROSE - My faith.
The world attention is centered on whether the Japanese
people would be able to come out of the militarism and become
a peace-loving nation. The people of the world pay much attention
to the future of Japan. From this point of view, the Japanese
nationals in Shanghai are being held as an example of the Japanese
people in home country. We, therefore, must do our best in order
to join the world as a peace loving nation. I think it is nece-
ssary to make the Japanese Agsociation a completely democratic organ.
I want, in this respect, to do my best to realize our object.
56. MITSUO OKANO - We request parental affection.
Most earnestly desired at present by the Japanese people in
Shanghai are the speedy repatriation and relief work for the poor
in Shanghai. However, I dare say that there is nothing effectively
materialized in spite of every endeavor made by the Japanese Asso-
ciation and persons in this organ. How do you think about the
miserable situation of those who were recently repatriated from
Shanghai. We must feel our responsibility in this connection. I
do not want to criticize the attitude of the Japanese Association,
but not a few says that the Japanese Association is undependable.
What is most necessary at present is the parental affection for
the Japanese in Shanghai.
SECRET
22.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
57. MASHIE HAMAMOTO (female) - Eternal woman.
The most important thing for the womanat present is to see
things more practically and fulfil our duties from the viewpoint
of eternal woman and the mother of human race instead of the
ordinal position of woman. In this case, however, our firm
determination is necessary because it wiil accompany many diffi-
culties. The reason why I impudently announced my candidature
before recommending many advanced and superior women for the
committee member of the Japanese Association is that I think I
myself now is in the position to make sacrifices more easily than
other persons.
58. SUEHIRO SEO - Our mission.
One plan carried out is better than mere discussions on
hundred others. Now that the repatriation of the Japenese nation
in Shanghai will be completed within several months, it goes
without saying that our relief plan should be speedily materia-
lized. The committee members of the Japanese Association are
solely held responsible for the execution of our relief plans.
The Japanese are to be concentrated in thebuilding of the
former Shanghai City Government in Kiangwan and spend one or two
nights there before going aboard the repatriation ship. However,
there are straw-mats there instead of beds or Japanese tatemi.
I request that five tatami be contributed from each Poa chia or
neighborhood unit to cover the floor in order to make our stay
here more healthy and comfortable.
There must be a great difference between the democratic
government and bureaucratic government. The committee members
must have strong decision to deal with the check of 30 000
which each Japanese family was permitted to remit. Moreover, they
must do their utmost effort for dealing with the education problem
of children of those who will remain in Shanghai employed by
Chinese organs as technical employees.
4. ELECTION RESULTS
Following is the result of the election held on January 26,
1946:
1) Kanzo Uchiyama ... ...
17,544 votes, elected.
62 years of age. Graduated from
Primary School. Owmer of the
Uchiyama Book Store.
2) Miss Mashie Hamamoto..
12,250 votes. elected.
57 years of age. Graduated from the
Rokujogaku-kan. Former vice-presi-
dent of the Shanghai Women's
Emergency Association.
SECRET
23.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
3) Shunno suke Ashi zawa
8,560 votes, elected.
40 years of age. Graduated from .
the Keio University. Owner of
the Ashizawa Printing Co.
4) Kotaro Hirose
7.135 votes, elected.
46 years of age. Waseda Universi-
ty. Former staff writer of the
Tairiku Shimpo.
5) Kumao Ono.
6.484 votes, elected.
58 years of age. Graduated from
the Kyoto Imperial University.
Former adviser to the Central
China Development Co. Lawyer.
6) Mise Hayako Yoshimoto ...
5.613 votes, elected.
26 years of age. Graduated from
Girl-High School.
7) Miss Masa Abe
6.45l votes, elected.
36 years of age. Surugadai Girl-
High School. Former employee of
the Central China Navigation Co.
8) Mirotaka Kawaguchi
5.424 votes, elected.
40 years of age. Graduated from,
the Central College. Former mem-
ber of the Shanghai Hokoku-Kai.
9) Miss Tae Shimamoto
4.95l votes, elected.
35 years of age. Graduated from
Wichita University, Kansas.
Former teacher of the Shanghai
Public School for Girls.
10) Ho zumi Tanaka
4.918 votes, elected.
38 years of age. Graduated from
Technical School.
11) Yoshimune Abe ....
4.603 votes, elected.
61 years of age. Graduated from
New York University. Former
President of Aoyama Gakuin College.
12) Tamio Okuda
4.348 votes. elected.
38 years of age. Graduated from
Tokyo Imperial University. Former
Chief of Labor Section of the
Central China Railway Co.
13) Mataichi Hayashi..
4.075 votes, elected.
60 years of age. Graduated from
Tokyo Commercial College. Owner
of The Mateichi Yoko.
14) Mrs. Aiko Doi
4.075 votes. elected.
39 years of age. Graduated from
Girl-High School.
15) Hachiro Ebina
3,738 votes, elected. 34 years
of age. Graduated from Hiroshima
Higher Normal School.
SECRET
24.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
16) Yoshiki Hoshino
3,736 votes, elected.
38 years of age. Shizuoka Higher
School. Founder of The Yokai
Middle School. Secretary of the
Shanghai Japanese Culture Club.
17) Keiji Ebina ... ...
3,666 votes, elected. 46 years
of age. Graduated from the Tokyo
Dental College. Chief of the Den-
tal Section of the Katetsu Hospital.
18) Setsu Takemoto
3.640 votes, elected.
36 years of age. Matsue Higher
School. Former staff of the Taiklku
Shimpo.
19) Goro Nishimoto
3.305 votes, elected.
63 years of age. Graduated from
Commercial School. Owmer of the
Taku Yoko.
20) Akira Kitamura
3.134 votes. elected.
43 years of age. Meiji. University.
Former Chief of the Nikka Iron
Works.
21) Suehiro Seo ...
3.075 votes, elected.
48 years of age. Middle School.
22) Rihei Sakurai..
3.072 votes, elected.
46 years of age. Graduated from
Kyoto Imperial University. Former
President of the Shanghai Japenese
Girl High School.
23) Tsunero Sekine.
2,821 votes, elected.
29 years of age. Graduated from
Tokyo Imperial University. Former
member of the Central China Rail-
way Co.
24) Suetaro Okajima
2,765 votes, elected.
61 years of age. Graduated from
Middle School. Former member of the
Shanghai Japanese Residental Asso-
ciation.
25) Kaoru Sekimori
2,751 votes, elected.
47 years of age. Graduated from the
Pacific University, USA. Owner of
the Tajikara Sports Goods Shop.
The following were unsuccessful candidates:
26) Namishiro Ishida ...
2.605 votes.
38 years of age. Nippon University.
Former chief of the Transport Sec-
tion of the Central China Transpor-
tation Company.
SECRET
25.

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
27. CHutaro Komiya
... 2,576 votes.
45 years of age. Graduated from
Middle School. Former owmer of
the Komiya Industrial Co.
28. Yoshito Morichika..
2.407 votes.
26 years of age. Former student
of the Tungwen College.
29. Yoichi Kawakami ...
2.391 votes.
48 years of age. Graduated from
Kyoto Imperial University. For-
mer member of the Central China
Water Works.
30. Norito Suwabe
2,264 votes.
38 years of age. Graduated from
Otani College. Former president
of the Daichuka Co.
31. Kazuo Nakamura
2,261 votes.
48 years of age. Graduated from
Nippon University. Former owner
of the Nakajima Co.
32. Tadaaki Tokunaga...
2,091 votes.
55 years of age. Graduated from
Peiping University. Owner of
Tokunaga Co.
33. Takeo Noda...
2,086 votes.
41 years of age. Graduated from
Normal School. Former member of
the Central China Railway Co.
34. Kiyomatsu Asada ...
2.082 votes.
42 years of age. Graduated from
Commercial College. Former Secre-
tary-General of the Central China
Railway Co.
35. Munenori Nakamura..
2.064 votes.
40 years of age. Graduated from
Kuramae Technical College. Former
managing-director of the Central
China Coal Supply Co.
36. Yasuo Mayumi
2.043 votes.
35 years of age. Graduated from
the Nagoya Commercial College.
Former member of the Central China
Transportation Co.
37. Mamoru Ozawa
2.032 votes.
37 years of age. Graduated from
Kokushikan College. Former profes-
sor of the Kokushiken College.
38. Masashi Nakane
2,030 votes.
44 years of age. Waseda University.
Former member of the Tairiku Shimpo.
39. Kiyoshi Shoji
1.992 votes.
54 years of age. Graduated from
Nippon English School.
SECRET
26.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Former owner of Shoji Co.
40. Kazuo Nakamura
1.891 votes.
30 years of age. Graduated from
Chuo University. Former member
of the Mokyo Gakuin.
41. Susumu Okazaki
1.835 votes.
39 years of age. Chuo University.
Former member of the Shanghai
Municipal Police.
42. Hidenori Soejima
1.823 votes.
42 years of age. Graduated from
Commercial School. Former owner
of Soejima Watchmaker.
43. Kaoru Ito ...
1.821 votes.
28 years of age. Graduated from
Commercial School. Former owner
of the Teikoku Suisan Co.
44. Mitsuo Okano.
1.812 votes.
37 years of age. Graduated from
Kansei University. Former member
of Soochow Industrial Co.
45. Hideo Ota...
1,777 votes.
38 years of age. Graduated from
Tokyo Dental College. "ormer chief
of Dentel Section of the Dojinkai
Hospital.
46. Yoshio Nishimura...
1.750 votes.
37 years of age. Graduated from
Dental Course of the Kyushu Impe-
rial University. Former secretary
of the Central ChinaSection of
the Japanese International Friend-
ship Society.
47. Sueto Yoshida
1.738 votes.
42 years of age. Primary School.
Former Chief of theBusiness
Section of the Fumin Co.
48. Toshio Uemura
1.735 votes.
44 years of age. Kyoto Imperial
University. Former chief of the
Investigation Section of the Shan-
ghai Japanese Chamber of Commerce.
49. Kiichiro Tazawa ...
1.676 votes.
38 years of age. Graduated from
Urawa Higher School. Former chief
of the General Affairs Section of
the Shanghai Foodstuff Supply and
Control Association.
SECRET
27.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
50. Naonori Fujii ... ... 1.623 votes.
46 years of age. Commercial School.
Former manager of Shanghai Branch
of the National Science Investigation
Society.
51. Shigeo Fujita...
1.617 votes.
38 years of age. Graduated from Tokyo
Electric School. Former Shanghai
manager of the Nippon Electric Co.
52. Kazuo Matsunaga.
1.616 votes.
33 years of age. Graduated from Wase-
da University. Former member of the
Central China Trade Association.
53. Takashi Tamura..
1.539 votes.
39 years of age. Graduated from Ritsu-
meikan College. Former member of the
Central China Telegraph Co.
54. Shojiro Tenaka..
1.473 votes.
42 years of age. Doshisha University.
Former Shanghai Manager of the Busai
Industrial Co.
55. Hikaru Muraoka..
1.433 votes.
45 years of age. Graduated from Tokyo
Higher Normal School. Former professor
of the Shanghai Commercial School.
56. Tedaichi Nagemine
1.428 votes.
40 years of age. Graduated from
Rikkyo University. ormer assistent
manager of Shanghai Branch of Mitsu-
koshi Co.
57. Shizuo Umeda ...
1.369 votes.
53 years of age. Graduated from Commer-
cial College. Former owner of ship-
fittings shop.
58. Hiroyoshi Yube..
1.364 votes.
37 years of age. Graduated from Ritsu-
meikan University. Former staff member
of the Central China Trade Association.
59. Toshio Suto
1.304 votes.
33 years of age. Former member of the
Central China Railway Co.
60. Shinichi Sakai..
1.164 votes.
29 years of age. Graduated from
Takushoku College. Former member of
the North China Transportation Co.
61. Ichiro Chiyoda..
1.148 votes.
31 years of age. Waseda University.
Former staff writer of Tairiku Orai
Magazine.
SECRET
28.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
62. Hirobumi Sekiguchi ......
1.035 votes.
33 years of age. Graduated from
Waseda University. Member of the
Nippon Marine and Fire Insurance
Co.
63. Ken Horiuchi ...
1.032 votes.
46 years of age. Graduated from
Waseda University. Former chief
of General Affairs Section of
Central China Tobacco Co.
64. Seiji Sato
949 votes.
25 years of age, Graduated from
Middle School. Former member of
the Central China Railway Co.
65. Mampei Agata ...
948 votes.
39 years of age. Graduated from
Normal School. Former professor
of the Shanghai Municipal School.
66. Kazuto Miyake...
931 votes.
37 years of age. Nagasaki Commer-
cial College. Constructor.
67. Tsukumo Oyama...
929 votes.
40 years of age. Graduated from
Tohoku Imperial University. Former
staff of the Manwa Yoko.
68. Seita Tsujii ...
785 votes.
34 years of age. Graduated from
Middle School. Engineer.
69. Shunichi Ikuyama
649 votes.
38 years of age. Graduated from
Kyoto Imperial University. Former
member of the Central Trade'Asso-
ciation.
70. Nadematsu Yokoyama ...
504 votes.
58 years of age. Middle School.
Former steff member of Konan
Science co.
5. ANALYSIS OF ELECTION RESULTS
According to the statistics compiled by the election Committee
of the Japanese Association after the election, the successful
candidates can be classified as follows according to their affilia
tion:
Name of
Number of
Number of
Percentage
organization or
candidate
elected
circles
Shanghai Oul ture
10
8
80%
Club
SECRET
29.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Name of
Number of
Number of
Percentage
organization or
candidate
elected
circles
Federation of
10
3
30%
Japanese Mutual
Aid Organizations
Recommended by
12
3
25%
neighborhood units
Former Japanese
3
3
100%
Residents' Associa
tion and former
National Emergency
Association
Backed by business
19
2
11%
circles
Others
13
6
46%
Commenting on the election results, the Reform Daily News
on January 27 said that the election was successful in that
the successful candidates constituted ofmen and women of
liberal tendencies, representing different walks of life, groups
and occupations.
The Shanghai Culture Club whose candidates proved to be most
popular (of ten candidates, eight were elected) is formed by
liberal elements among local Japanese, and was first to denounce
militarism and Fascism. TheClub was also first to launch an
organized drive for democratic education for the Japanese. Its
success in the election points to a papular demand by local
Japanese for the formation of a wide democratic front.
PRESS COMMENTS ON THE ELECTION.
(a) Reform Daily News, January 27, 1946:
HONGKEW ELECTION HELD. ALL WOMAN CANDIDATES ELECTED
Since the Japanese surrender, 80,O00 local Japanese have
heard quite a bit about democracy. But except on few occasions
they haven't been taught in- concrete manner how to act in the
democratic way.
SECRET
30.

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Their first chance to try their newly-acquired democracy
came last Saturday (January 26) when the election of members
of the Japanese Association's Committee of Representatives was
held. And they did "pretty well," according to the Japanese-
language Reform Daily News, if the extremely low percentage of
absentee is an indication of its success. A 90 per cent of the
Japenese cst their vote in response to a one-week drive by the
Reform Daily News and the Japanese Association urging them not
to forfeit their right to select their own representatives.
As a matter of fact, when the election day drew near, local
Japanese were all keyed up for the election which was, according
to the daily, the first free and democratic election in the
Japanese history with every Japanese man and woman over 20 years
of age equally enjoying the voting right. The Reform Daily Nows
held the local election as a straw in the Japa ese political wind
as it was held almost two months ahead of the general elections
to be held in Japan.
To Japanese women the election was something new as it was
the first time that Japanese women took time out from their
domestic work and went to a balloting place. Women also did
pretty well in the first democratic election: five women among
70 candidates were all elected.
The election returns announced in the Reform Daily News
showed that the election.was a landslide for two old Shanghai-
landers. Kanzo Uchiyama, well-known book-shop keeper. who spent
almost 30 years of his life in Shanghai. topped the list of the
elected representetives by 17,002 votes. Mrs. Machie Hamamoto,
a graduate of the Japanese Women's College, who has been promi-
nent in Japanese women's circles here, received 12,255 votes.
The rest of the representatives were elected by somewhere from
3,000 to 8,600 votes. They are "new faces" who never held
official positions or have never been considered close to Japan's
wartime leaders.
Yoshiki Hoshino, the only Japanese here openly advocating
the outright abolition of the Emperor system, was elected by
3,735 votes or the 16th place emong 25 successful candidates.
Hoshino's elder brother, Tateki Hoshino, was once the Director
of the Legislative Bureau of the Jepanese Cabinet and now is in
the Sugamo Prison, Tokyo, waiting for the war crimes trial.
Interviewed by the Reform Daily News. Leftist Hoshino
remarked, "It was done in a courteousand gentlemanly manner.
When I finished my speech one day during my election campaign,
the next speaker who had opposing views, helped me to my over-
coat." Whether t was a sign of genuine courtesy or a hint for
him to get out quick, he didn't say.
SECRET
31

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
However, there was a definite sign that Japanese women need
more political education before they can adequately exercise
their newly acquired right to vote. When interviewed by the
Reform Daily News after the election, most of local Japanese
women confessed that they did not know whom to elect. They paid
little attention to campaign platforms announced by the candi-
dates. One woman said, "It was the first time for me, I didn't
know how to go about it." "Have you attended any election rally?"
"No. I didn't have time. I didn't know whom to pick. I voted
for those I knew."
Similar answers were given by other women. wI voted for
Mr. Uchiyama because I didn't know any other candidate." "I
voted for Mrs. Hamamoto because she is a friend of mine."
According to an announcement issued by the Japanese Associa
tion, the age average of 70 candidates was 41, fifty-two
candidates being between 30 to 50 years of age, six under 30 and
the remaining 12 over 50 years of age. This is the lowest age
average in the history of Japanese elections because the age
limit eligible for candidature was lowered to 20 for the first
time. This is a healthy sign, the Reform Daily News commented.
(b) REFORM DAILY NEWS, January 28, 1946.
Editorial:
Duties of newly elected Japanese representatives.
The election of members of the Japanese Association's Commi-
ttee of Representatives was held Saturday with only a negligible
number of local Japanese failing to vote. The local Japanese
are now placing great hopes on their newly elected representatives.
We hope they would live up to their expectations.
There is a multitude of problems placed before the Japanese
representatives, which need prompt action. For instance, relief
money and articles for the Enoehima Maru victims are pouring
into the Japanese Association, but the victims of the sea disas-
ter have not yet received the money or goods. If they act
immediately to help the unfortunate Japanese, the model free
election which elected them will become a pride of the local
Japanese, and at the same time, the Enoshima Maru victims when
they return to Japan will be able to proudly tell to the people
in Japan Samaritanism displayed by local Japanese.
The duties of the newly elected Japanese representatives are:
S EC R ET
32.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
1. They must put into practice without delay what they
promised in their campaign speeches.
2. They should act as a nucleus in forming a joint demo-
cratic front. Local Japanese as well as Japanese represente-
tives themselves hold divergent views and ideologies, but
they should forget their small difference in view, lest there
will be no unity. Unity is the key word in solving the problems
facing local Japanese.
3. Unlike the advisory council of the Japanese Association
which is now replaced by the Committee of Representatives, the
representatives should become a propelling power of the Asso-
ciation, representing the voice and wishes of local Japanese.
The Committee should act as a democratic policy-making organ
within the Association.
4. The representatives should be a spearhead of the Associa-
tion in its activities. Local Japanese did not elect them to
sit around and indulge in discussion for discussion's sake. The
democretization of the repatriation procedure and the thorough-
going enforcement of relief measures should be immediately
tackled and settled by them.
5. They should constantly maintain close contact with
Japenese neighborhood units to listen to the voice of the people.
Otherwise the democratization of the Jepanese Association cannot
be achieved. They should be consulted with appointments the
Association is to make. but they shoudl be careful not to meddle
with unimportant routine matters of the Association.
6. In view of the fact that all five women candidates had
been elected, women's views on the repatriation and other pro-
blems should be respected.
7. The representatives themselves might be repatriated soon.
When they are repatriated, they will be naturally relieved of
their duties, but their moral obligation to local Japanese remains.
They should play an active part in rehabilitating Japanese
returning from China.
PENDING
SEC RET
33.

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.96)
JTL-FC
JOHN EDGAR HOOVER
BOTR
DIRECTOR
Federal Bureau of Inuestigation
π
United States Department of Justice
Washington, D. C.
894.20293/5-2846
CONFIDENTIAL
Date: May 28, 1946
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
To:
Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
State Department
Washington, D. C.
SubJect: FRANKLYN GUSTAV LEWIS
I am enclosing herewith photostatic copies of investigations conducted
concerning the above-captioned person in Manila.
The interview that you requested this Bureau to conduct upon the
subject's arrival in Sen Francisco will be transmitted to you within the near
AW
future.
NND780069
JUP 2 1 1946
Enclosure
JHH
25Aug.78
FILED
FORVICTORY
F Unit
BUY
UNITED
STATES
WAR
BONDS
STAMPS
AND
File

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.89)
Firet sre t f
1T0 75
9 Povener P92
MEVORANDUN FOR THE OFFICER II CHARGE:
SUBJECT: LE"IS, Franklyn Gustav,
Women's Replacement and
Disposition Center,
APO 75.
In accordance with the instruction of the Cfficer in Charge, i: is
Agent conducted an investigation of Subject, en emericen citizer. suspec-
ted of disloyalty to the United States while interi.ed by the .apenece t
Farbin and Mukden, Manchuria.
1. On 7 November 1945 this gent interviewed Ars. Claudia .itte
Ford Lewis at the Women's Replacement and icpoalicr. Center, i0 75.
Mrs. Lewis stated substantially as follows:
Mrs. Lewis was born at Kizil, wrbad, kussis, in 189f, the daurlter
of Theodore F. Witte, e Lithuanian in the employ of the Trars-Caspinn
Railwey, end a Tolish mother. In 1905, Mrs. Lewis' father moved Wit!. his
family to Harbin, Manchuria, where he was fiven the position of Chief of
the Irocurement Section of the Chinese estern Hoilway.
Nrs. Lewis grew up in Farbin and in 1925 morried  on rd,
Pritish ational in the insurance lusiness in Herbin. Irs. ewis nox
avails herself of the  ritish citizership which she cerived 'rer t i
marriage.
In l927, Irs. Lewis' purents went to lussia tc visit ner iter,
Lydia Epishina, t e wife of a Russian enrineer. iti queh cy te 
ters to the effect that they were uxious to returi. to i snchur, 
Soviet authorities apperently refused to ollow r. '
leave that ccuntry, and t latt ceoourte ser  o vr c
there, rer father hevi:s died i. 1'3..
In 1o37,rs. Jewis first hurtand,  oward Pore, 
snd sle continued to operate his inatrnnce uainens u 
the Topanere s a Tritish  ationl or le bece er 1.
Ure. fewis w prepored to to bnglend  reretriatr o
ritish vationsls wrict oceurred sbout June 1 4, tut stete: 
felt disinclined to do so ertam the tritish wemer in he r re
tole rer thet she would be re mrdee   foroigrer i Lrgi tve:
thouh she relo ritish citienss,eeycer
weuld net be weicoce rrr rertrretion mover ent.

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.88)
ccordinrly,'re. levis rertit
was roverorortin to e
unchurie. t ukder, re. Levit, the L
Subject, Frunklir Custay ewis 
one year leter, 3 Ju1y 1423.
Interned at the ! ukden cuntre 45 i:.
Satholic teachin rthers,4.nericc, e.
British etd lalestininns. The me icn wtlt.
nurelizedRussinoi
liberated, r. Iaul Aostnikoff,  rutt.u T.
to huve returned tohis rormer one in lule, .
r. Chardes inney, who is thourt to he re,
rie, with his Japanese wire, Irs. Lewis' husbanc une ier:t...
couid furnish the nemes ard present wtcreubouts orc :t:.
thn the me ricars.
Go fer es Irs. Lewis. knew, rer iusbond ves beri.  
mericar father, Jackson SarlosTewis, and t weci:! ct:.
moved to Darien when Subject wus  little boy,It:cu 
cor tinued to live there until the ottretk of te I, ut
cated in Shancrhai.
In 136, or thereatouts, Sub rct tecune attucre 
Consulute in I ukden as a secretary-cleri,csit
until interned at the outbreak of t:e ur in Decerter .t
interned in a private resicence in  ukden it! ..tncti
Ir. Alexis ohnson, te 1 ukden ct sul vicc-conete
Arerican consular steffs in. the rer East verc :ect
1942, but subject stated thet he dcclined to ro 1 
the Japanese 'officiels had tolc hi that te wouleot
to Shanchai, where his fether was invalided with"pelly:i.,
to Ame ica with his father in a subseauent novemert.
Instead of allowine him to go to Shanthei, hovever, 
moved Subject to the Civilian Interrment  Camp in ukden,
for the belance of the wer.
After they had refused to allow him to go to Shanghei, the Joj-
anese promised Subject that he would be allowed to retur to merice cr
the next repatriation ship. Noweyer, the next repotrintion shi, did pot
arrive until August or Septemter 143 ard at that time the .upcrere to
Subject that he would not go because hie nome did not sp esr upon tc
exchange list.
While he hed not been born in America and had tcen in ame.ics oly
for short vieite, Subject always regurded himself us o loyal merican
citizen and never made mny derogatory remarks regeraing the United tute
or its people.  Subject always spoke well of Ir. Irends, Er. Johnson snd
his other superiors at the Mukder consular office.
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.83)
Pter le tas been reftced repatriation in 1o23, Subject up earec
to " o to pfcces" mentally erd wae subject to protracted mouds or cer-
ir ani meluncholy, during which he would rove about enythint and
everything. This condition continued, off and on, until subject ae
lil eroted by the Americans in August 1949.
ubject spcte the Taperese lar are end oceasionully sile per-
Por interoretation ond trunslation for the camp suthorities. This
wa the only woir which he die in comp.
"either ubject nor any of the individuals interned werc elle cd
to leave cenp et ory time for eny reason other then to consult with.
apr eified doctors and dentists in  ukden, and a Japancse puard secor-
nied en on these missions.
C:  rs. Clausia itte Ford Lesis is e ic c re
vorn vith wetery : lue eyes who speals with a thick accent and re aily
shomn e ery one of he: 2 score and 7 years. She was extrenely icrvous
vile cinr interviewed, und while this condition mey te attritut-tle
to v p turel feer of the lew or to menopause, it likewise may be et-
tritutable to the rect that she hae somethine to fear with regurd to
the pli t or her husband and hereelf. She por. csced e renarru: le re-
cility ror rencmberin exuct dates, ulthouph this ray te secribed to
the r.et trot sll cutes toueled upon were extrerely important ones in.
Yrlie.
2. Cr 7 oventer 1945 thi opent interviened P. . Garland
 pfrat core it contoet with the Lewis femily througl Sur-
ea r, enna Pewir, e Swedish-aorre Euresien wo s
eoyeelcr  the emericer e y in iren o y 
one, cr .y et e
e ihi eie
Cte
e clr ir the rericr kboscy st utden sbout de yere .
Richardson ttcel
ricen diplomatic er:ly
2

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.75)
i
.L
pichardeor,
ihewen ltle.
ect ctoih
rlleredr
CC
tire,et
setoet
etrot outtort
 rur ast, pperedy utte etaet, uht
 t ,  hie  se the e, ,r 
ty, w the eotien,'Disloo",rollcel. kiche
wt ouns uor hie loi, w ele! irie!  "le
tio tate epertment other thn te er remeticred zteet
ricrerdsor. expressed dec't ret uyding Sut ect'e sctivities
durir t wer t wos xgomewhat iicliped to disbelieve sut cct's
tory thpt he hnd been interied by the Jepenese.
pr'e ores: F. Fenneth Frends is not presently listed
ns  State Depertment employee, elthough Richardeon telieved thot he is
no in mome Covernment service in Washington, D.C. It is recom-
monded that both Krende and Johnaon be interviewed.
3. On 7 September 19/5 this Agent interviewed the Subject,
I'r. Franklyn Gustay Lewis, at the Women's Replacement ang Dis-
position Center, Alo 75. Ir. Lewis stated substentially an follows:
Porn in .Shanghai, China, on 4 April 1917, the sor of Jackson
Carlos Lewis, an Americen citizen, and Anna't arie Mewis, nee Swenson,
e wedish citizen of balf-Swedish-halr-Jspanese blood, Subject was
-4-

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.80)
COT
一
educated throuri titt schecl in te ai: t  ronci: vie
tonghai,  su sequertly attede re 
thet city, craduutiny in 1995.
A short tine after Sutject's Lirth,.,
er of t'e I. s. avy turned 'ship's chandler,
Shanehei te Daiter, Lancthuria, where tt farily r
until the present wer.
Sut ject's not!r, no arie Lese,
ly 20 years prier to te cuttrenl en c:1
the American Emtassy et Dairer.he w:hte
captain an' a Japanese woren, !orn upor! se.
on 6 Februsry 1036, ject
Consulute at Vukden,a positicr whict..
Cn 8 Decenter 1941, Sutject we nter 1
the Americen consul ceneral utuhden,
Iutden vice-consul. Inuy or une 194,
portur ity to to to the Tni cu tutes or  
merfcsn consulur en loyte in tr
ther wns ill in Sharehei, n ivlid
pareleit,ne in el the 
promised hir. tte vetl' te alc.t
declined the offer of reletri vion.
Inetend of allcy irr  ubject to treve . o,
the Faanecei FuY roved i
ment in Frend's houre, to te'tkder ivre
In thin cuer itu s Jeet were 4s oter civilive,
34 elrion Cntrolie tenchit roter, enrr
Lineyuer,'anchurit, ore futherererev.
one Dutel ratler,Pey.orieber:ce,
chazarian; two bupchmen, Cepre n trmeer ,
a Canndian; Jackthresenorr, a Pale tinin citizen of Rurihn n
Jewich desgent; Micheel linkir, wn Americen citizen of meewfek
demcent, all of whom ezpreseed a desire te return to Perrin uper
t'eir liberation; Charler Kinney, en mericen marric4 to Jep mest
woman who remeined in Da ren with hie Ire arter lil eret or;  mel
Poahnikofr, en Ameriep citizen of Buseien descent wc recec c i
Lewio ng far nd ckinawa in the procehe of returnir, to i, 
home in San Franeisco, California: Cluudi  Fore, the i 
Pritiah cltiz n Crom Fartin, Ene Sub eet.
The cemp was ndminiatered by the Jepa ccc Foreiem  Lotion
Police, a seat=0ivilim orgamjvation, m .690.96m1a1at6ra4 3. 6
"apanene nemod Takehsehi fcr hhout ore-asd-orevtelr yeelg jflor to
the end of the war.

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.85)
9
1
In Fuly 1942,
Fre? ford wwa she i
the States with him.
ut ject clsimed thatc
would tot wlros tim to pond hie ratler 
ship arrived urtil zuguet  mepteuber loaoa u
time the
Papanese fr rormet cur eet t t the shir t hrr iveree tec
of the Ttaliun cepdtulation. ur jeet sr tse vently leprrerot
repatrietron rhip ed sniled,
re e e e te
Jepenese prieoromuthoritiee wit ts feet, tley Pirrt  forre
that his heme had not apyeured por. e list cr perc
for repatriation submitted by the .. Statc Depart,
stated thot they ksd not sllowed  to ro couuse te
had visited Jupon on a numter of oceneiore am, hoe 
rican Embesay for e long pericc or tire ar wu marestit  trer
the Japerese suspected him af ei epy.
Apter ttis incjderty Sut ject :tater tret he lort cli tort
lived more or rese in e stute of ete pendcd onimation unti) ps cu
en amerieen foree heeded by Major Jenes Tenneeey in nugust I 2.
Subject stated thst he hen rever teen allowee to leave the
Lukden prison camp other fher to oceed urcer Jape to
doctor or dentist in l'ukder town; tst the orly worhs ts forrc
in the camp wme an occasionel job of interpreting oi trunsuetil tct
the Japanese.
On 6 December 1944 Subjeet cleimed to Lave related ais lai t.
to a Ir. Berry C. angst, Internationel Red Croes repwesentative hone.
addrese whs Centrel Poat Ofilee Box 3lb, Tokyo, Jblur, bub elated
。
that he hod never received a reply froe his proteat to elsak otter
than mistreatment by the Japenese.
Subject etated that he bod not felt bituer erei:ut the i.  .
Government or the anericen people because pit mether, e  crnor or
but stated that he had felt "very sad" becaure or this feet, lemis
elmimed that prior to the wer he desired to return permenently to
Americe, as two of his brothera and e eister had done, bet rermined
in the Crient becouse his mother coule nct ro witi his und he  ished
nbove oll to he neer her, for "our reletionship wae ore ton thst
of mother and son rut more like thst of trether ant cister". 
Lewia' ister, Vre. Clivin lombert booper, married e U. s.
Chine, Lewis thought, until she went to the States with her Lusband
just before the outbreak of the war and settled down in ser Fernardine,
Celifornia. Lewis Enew nothing of he: ever hevitr reen in any tr uele,
and believed that she had never ived in Shsnghoi.
-6-
D

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.91)
Lewis specifically denied ever hawing mede any statement to the
efrect or seneral purport that the U. S. Coveriment was unfair in de-
nying citizer.ship to his mother or in sny other manner, or that he did
not desire to go to America for this or for any other reason.
Subject stated that he hed resigned from the employment of tlie
U. S. State Department in April 1942, when the Japanese promised him
that he could go to his father in Shanghsi, but stronely afrirmed that
tiie ection was taken for purely personal reasons and had no bearing.
upon his loyalty to America.
Subject stated thet he was femilier with the Japonese language,
having learned the same from Japanese people in Dairen, mnd furt: er
stated that he had taken vacation trips to Japen while in achool and
After he hnd heen employed by the emerican Embasay. Sul ject stated
thet his lust trip to Japan was in January 1 4l, of about 1t duya
duration, which time he opent in Tokyo. He denied ever hevine ssso-
cisted with eny Japanese people sinee his childhood, stating that an
employee of the me ican consular service."could not afford to be
friendly with any Japenese".
Subject atated thet the only peraon presently in kanile whom
  known well in previous years wee Ir. Theo Edmiston of the
Yationel City Tark, whom he hed known at Darien in 193o-l937.
pvt's crEs: Lewie seemed, comewhat uneasy during hie in-
terview, sn: took care to recite the exect hour or the day upon which
centair event: occured. le displsye no phygical sign of hie one-fourth.
Japone e blood.
In mdaition to Mre. Cooper, Lewis listed three brothere, Jeck-
=on  mderslevie, last heard of be livine et 1854 riit t., 1os
anceles, Californis, illiem Swenson iewis, living in Jeattle end
Cordon Bluckhurst lewia, whereetoute unknown.
hile he stated when interviewed tat he thou,ht his mother
to be ir Darien, kezchurie, ana his. father in Shonenei, ir still
alive, Jerie listed both ae living at zzlo lonroe ave. ptguen, Uteb
or the efridayit which he prepered for hie repatrietion processing.
Tritiah vice-conmnl in Pmaila. Mr. Finlay atated mubsseatially
The files or the British Consulate in Msuils contain no record
of Mre. Claudie itte Ford ewie, late or Lerbin ene Mukden, Manehurie.
Mr. Wislay ststed thot both Fra. Tewis ene hea hunbetn, Frenklyn
Je ie, o former Ameriean conmuler employee, hbd been to his office on
eny gocasione in bn nttexpt to verify Mre. lewis! Britiek citizenehip
prieresd their dephrture for the Irited States.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.89)
verer lo4s thrent inwrviewetr.
Matibrel CityEe,Venile,.
with ro rd
to ret Tr klyr Custv Tewis.
Sumieton stutea sulr tontially
e had known the Lewis farily in Deirer, Monchurie, cvr e riod
of yeare prior te the outhreak of he wer, und while they were pot t
most "deairetle" femily on eerth, he ha mown nothiterich ould in-
icnte that they were di, loyel to she trited States while he lived in
Deiren. During most or Edmiston's time in Deiren, however, Irurklyr
Lewis wes eway atterdint school, und later, orking in the American
0
coneulate in Yurden, a osition Ahich he held untit the outbreak of
n  result, Edmiston hud not known Frerklyn Lewis ell but h
heard hothing of derogatory eture regarding him.
lubjeet'a futher, a care free, hord drinking, n'er-doe ell tnd
arifted,sto Shins vis the U. . Mayy, there merried Subjeet'e mether,
a Swedish-Japarese Euraciar, and settled down in Dairen to opelate a
spell ship' supply end import business.
The mother, who had been employed aa a secretery in the merican
contulate in Dairen for many years prior to -orld war II, we well re-
parded about town and greatly edmired for her determination to raice her
larce family in proper menner, despite the father's defalcations.
Edmiston had heard that efter the steff of the americen consulate
in lukden tad been interwed ut wor': cutbrecr, krs. Lewis suddenly begen
to make remarks uncomplimentary to Americs, end finelly declined an of-
fer to be transported to the United States, stating that she preferred
to remein in Deiren where the Japanese were in power, rather thsn to go
to american.
Two or three Weeks ego, Lewis and his wife, a Russian woman
about 20 years older than he, had come to Edmiston with the request
that her execute an afriduvit in substantietion to her cleim to British
citizenship snd her moral fitness to enter the United States. Edmiston
End known trs. Tewie eerly in the lest decade in Harbin, Wenchuria,
where she rad been merried to a Eritieh insurence man nomed Ford,
who has since died, but he had not seen her since and accordingly
hesitated for aome time before signing the afridavit. So fer as Ed-
miston knownd, Mre. Lewis wes m jereon of relisble and truetworthy
charecter.
COPPAEHSIAL

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.92)
Eamiston knew nothing pertinent regerding the other membere of
the Lewis family.
6. On 9 November 1945, this Agent re-interviewed Mr. . Gerland
Richerdsom, American Vice-Consul at Menile, P. I., with regard to Subject,
Freakiya Gastav Lewis, Mr. Richardson stated substentially as follows:
Amme Merie Lewis, the mother of Subject, is not an American citizen,
and is mot eligible to become en American citizen because she is of one-
helf Jopemose blood.
 véee éf her lon peried of pervice et the American consulate in
hede following the outbreak of the war to
t he Smited seated mith the rest of the Consulete steff
ax Mrae Lewie beceme strengely critical of America and Americans,
the United States, and finally
woald mot definitely state that she had any
s the Jepammee, he hed over heard her break
will tell owrything!", while • Chinese
esnsulete. A short time after that, this
poltee euthorities.
his reeords, Riohsrdson stated
been eleered with the American
are 500, who stated suba-
relimed Americer of Russien
29th Roplacement Depot
mal Pootaikeff hed been
3 thru the 3iach Generel
pot had no further record
ml Moopitel etated that whate-
ine repetrsates pho haé pessed
he United States with the

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.94)
RECOMMEFDATIONS:
While it would seem quite probable that Subject was mentally
antegonistic toward the United States CGovernment following t.e cut-
breek of war between the United States and Japen, possibly cue to his
mother's plisht as a half-Japanese barred from otteining United states
citizenship, and her influence, there is no evidence that this anta-
gonism extended itself into concrete actions other tlan the utterance
of unfriendly remarks regarding Americen policy, end possibly, his
decision not to return to the States on the offer of repetriation
extended to him in May-June 1942.
It is believed that an interview with Kenneth Krends and Alexis
Johnson, former consul and vice-consul, respectively, in Vukden, and
possibly with Paul P. Postnikoff, a fellow internee of Subject at
Mukden, will mdduoe sufficient concrete evidence regarding Subject's
activities upon which to base m definite decision regarding his loyalty.
It is recomhended that an attempt be made to contect. the afore-
mentioned individukle before a final conclusion is made in regard to
Subjocttloyalty-
A0NT 2411
CATTTTONTMTAY

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.84)
CORFIPENTTAL
Hq cIC Met Unit 81
APO 503
19 Novembor 1945
MEMORANDUM POR THE OPFICER IN CHAROE:
subject: LEwIS, ranklyn Gustav
Porwer employed Amariean osulppe,
iukden vanchuria
pursuant to cablegram A Wes PAc. requesting reasons why
subject is listed as disloyal on  tate epartment tist
Americans in the Par East, mn Agent from this office intur-
viewed Mr. U. Alexis Johnson, American monsul in Yo ohama
anu a member of the Amerlcan onsulate in ukden from  met
1940 ti11 June 1942 He ave the followin infoma
1. Pranklyn rewIs was an Ameri can cltizen enpleys
the Ameriean Consulatein Mukdenes a conftucntial il lerk
His father was A crican und his mother was half-Ameri can
half-Japanese. r. Johnr on stateu tat mubjent was peyolo-
ically maladjusted. Ly is evidenced no direct loyalt ee to
any ebuntry.  me assonlated exclyaively with the Je angee,
ane felt socimlly ill at oaeo with cmericana ane forei m
nationals. Jolnson la? no preor of  inlo alty, bat bmeamse
of subjeotia close aszocintion wit. the Javannae=an± hka.
adctation to llquor, he wae never entrusted wkba confi matial
material et bho monaalate.
2.  on the outbreak ol the var vetween Ja an ahn bbe
Imited Statee, all mombors al tho.conevlar ataff=ware abbobo
Im May.1942, 1hey wora 1n 0rmaa b7 tme 74vkneaa 6mb tbe
onsvl an . bhe membere of Hle =tafr voele be evacmaten to
Jaoan for rapatriation to the united  tatee.
In  airen vanchuria wam
on attetimeor
annoumoesaat or repatristton. Johnson stato .
mothar had shown evldenre or vbious lo alty to ie
states (r, s. carland fieharo -,
Amertcan  oneal in.
vanila, le acquainteo witn her ceae).  After a talk v th
his mother, Lawts refusev repatriation amo etatod thav

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.81)
eose to reain Lo er
for ie deciaion. r. Joron
niefonsul, exolaine to
tantamomt to refusal toncet to ol
mertean itizen
mlit be conetrueted as an attem
for the nite tates.
remain
the faganase orer n orrtse do
short or Pomoe to conyinee at ferp to mceev ropelr st
Johneon stated thet the Jaoaneaoihtt 
Johnaon and Vrentz left mukten
Johnson heard in lrectly that
t yao leter
the Japanese. r. pents who  r loye
this Incident.
JEOE
Spec.ent,
A°ROVED:
1/ LAT
t/ L.A.T.
-2-

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.91)
HEA QUARTERS
PI ST COUTTR INTELLIOENCE CORPS REOION
UNITED STATER ARMY PORCES, PAC IPIC
APO75
23 Novowber 1945
Pile No. 66-44
MONORAL UN POL THE OFFICNR IN CHALOE
Subjoct: LkWIS, Pranklyn Gustav
Fomenis Replacement and Redisposition enter
APO 75
This supplementary memorandum is submitte: in order
to correct certain variances in the original memorandum
relative to Subject, dated 9 November 1945, previo sly
tranamitted by this office.
The changes horein set forth are in connoction
wi th the interviow of ur.. Garland Riohardson, onsul,
Amorican onsulate coneral's ofrice, Manila, which was
sot forth on page thiree of the orl inal memorantum.
The corrections ure as follows:
iretly, . Ric rdaon's offiolal losimation was
coscrived therein as vice-consul, whereas in fact ne is
a consul.
he last two lines on page three beginning with.
the words Yunless it we some connection...." and
enlin w th "Japanese" are to be delete frou twho ori-
-Lnal comorandu, aince u on reinterviow of informant
it wae foun that this neither represented r. icharuson's
staterents or o inlone nor was the hy otheuis sugested
or eu lied by him. as set forth in tiw sentence pre-
o
,r. iclarison " id not learn fron renda e
coupl te cireumetances eurrow ing tho atatenont and
juat  at bjoct was referring to when he a ded that
friende a been improperly treate."
rou hout the interview te nameenneth ren 
a peare. The correct s ellin is prente acco.  to
r. iciarlson. r. vrontz wua formerly onsul at
nk sn,ina. At the reeent time, r.chareeon
a ded, ur. rentz ls wi . the  tate epartost bt ia
voat is not mown to iuformunt. hereforo te state-
1 in " ont Is notee" page four of ori inal momormdue

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.95)
to the effect that r. Krents"is not presently listod
as atato epartment employee" is inoorrect and should
be changed accordingly.
Pinally, in paragraph 6 on page nine of the original
momorandum, a reinterview of ur. Richardson was set forth.
There aopeare in the last two lines of this interview the
statement, "A short time after that, this hinese was
executed by the same police authorities." This eentence
is to be eleted from the report.m liow thereof the
following statement shoul be substituted, "As tothe
dispoaition of this chinese I have no knowledge." Mr.
Richardson advise this agent that ho did not have any
personal knowledge ofthe disposition of thisChinese,
and therefore the statement as itorlginally appeared
was not correct.
The corretions set forth above. were madecuring
s re-interview ofr. Richardson bythis agent on20
November l945, atthe office of the American onsulate
conoral, Maniía, . I.
Agent 2199
ADDTAENIMTAT

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.97)
CONPIDENTIAL
HEADQUARTERS
1135th GOUNTER INTRLLIGENCE CORPS DETACHMENT
UNITED"STATES ARYY PORCES, WESTEHN PACIFIC
APO 707
28 Maroh 1946
JBJECT LEWIS, Pranklyn GustaV (American)
Mukden, Manchuria
)
Consul eneral for the United States of America
American Consulate
Manila
1. On 18 October l945 a complete loyalty
vestigation ofSubjeot was requested of First Counter
itelligence Corps Region by AGO, AFPAC, in response
a request instigated by the American Consul Jeneral
connection with the information obtuinedfromthe
"fice files of the American Consul General, Manila,
ilippine Islands.
2. On 5 November 1945 1t was recommendedthat in
lew of the lack of informants having knowledge of Sub-
sot, the authorities in Mukden, Manchuria, be contacted
 arding request contained in basic communication.
3. On 9 November 1945 an investigation regarding
ibject and Subject's wife revealed the following infor-
ation:
Nrs. Claudia Witte Ford Lewis born at Kizil,
Arbad, Ruasie, in 1e98. Zhe moved to Harbin, Man-
churia, in l905 and was married to Howard Ford, a
British national in l925. In 1927 Howerd Pord died
and his wife was subsequently interned on 12 Decem-
ber l94l. Mrs. Lewis was not repatriated in June
1942 and was later moved to a Japanese Internment
Camp in Mukden 1n July l942. Here she met Subiect
and married him om 3 July 1943. Among internees
were Mr. Michael Slinkin, Paul Postinikoff, Charles
Kinney, and the Lewis counle. According to Mrs. Le-
wis, Subject wes born in Shangha' of an American
father and n Swedish mother. The faxily moved to
Dairen when Subject was a voung boy. In 1936 Sub-
lect became secretary-clerk in American Consulate
1

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.96)
in ukden. Subject was first interned in a private
residence in Wukten with Er.Kenneth Krenz and r.
Alexis Johnson, the Vukden American Consul and Vice
Congul respectively. American Consular staffa were
repatriated in liny or June of 1942, but Subject de-
clined to go because he hoped to visit his father
in Shanghal. The Japanese refused this request and
interned him in Mukden for the balance of the war.
Subject appeared to "go to pieces" mentally after
being refused repetriation by the Japanese 1n 1g43.
Subject spoke Janenese and occasionally did inter-
pretation work in camp?
r.. Garland Hichardson, American Vice onsul
in Manila stated when interviewed, thet he had been
told by Mr. Krends that Subject had declined to be
ropatriated with other American diplometic employees
in June 1942, steting that he did "not want to ro to
country" which had treated his friends in an unfair
and 1mproper manner. Richardaon did not know com-
plete cireumatences surrounding the statement. Richard-
son also stated that Subject's siater waa married to
an American marine, but in 194l she wae involved in
a German espionege case 1n Shanghai. Subject's state-
ment parallels thet of his wife as sumarized above.
Subject stated he had not felt Bitter toward the United
States and did not know of his sister ever having been
in trouble. He believed she nev r lived in shanghai.
Lewie listed three brothere: Jackson Andere Lewis,
1854 Bright, Los Angeles, Galifornia; William Swenson
Lewis, Seattle, Washinston; and, Gordon Blackhurst
Lewis, whereabouts wnkmown. While he, stated thet he
thought his mother. to be in Dairen, Nanchurie, and his
father in -hanghai, ubject listed both on affidavit
prepared for his repatriation processing ae living at
2240 Monroe Ave., Oden, Utah.
The files of Brieieh Consulate in Manila contain
no records of Wrs. Claudia Witte Pord Lewis, although
Vrs. Lewis carries a eeemingly valid British pessport.
Mr. T. C. Ramiston, National City Bank, Manila,
P.I. was intervlewed and stated that he had known the
Lewis family in Dairen, Manehuria, over a neriod of
years, and while they wore not the most "desirable"
poople on earth he had known nothing which would in-
dicate that they were dislovel to the United Statee
2

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.97)
while he (Mr. dmiston) had lived in Dairén.
Mr. mamiston had heard that after the staff of
the American Consulate had been interned, Mra. Le-
wis suddenly began to make remarks uncomplimentary
to Ameriea. Mamiston had been asked by Subject
and Subjeet's wife about two or three weeke before
this interview to execute an afridavit to substantiate
her elaim for British citisenship. Edmiston had
known that irs. Lewis was married to a British in-
surance man named Ford, but had not seen her in so
long, that he hesitated for eome time beforesigning
the afridavit.
Mr. W. Garland Richardson, American Vice-Consul
at Manila, Philippine Islands, was re-interviewed on
9 November l945. He stated that while Mrs. Lewis
(Subject's mother) was not eligible for American
citizonship, because of her one-half Japanese blood,
arrangemonti had been made to transport her to the
United States with the rest of Consulate staff. Sub-
joot'e mother, however, beoame strongly critical of
Amorica and finally stated that she preferred to re-
main in Dairen. Richardson stated, after searching
records, that Faul P. Postnikoff, aforementioned as
an intornee with Subject had not cleared with the
Amorioan Consulate in Manila for repatriation to the
United Stetes.
Notes Postnikoff was ovrouated to the United
Statea 1n October 1945 thru 312th Oeneral Posnital
APo 75. Records at 29th Repl. Depot gave no home
address, but liated as his employer "I. Loulaieff's
Sons, Ino., Seattle, Washington. It wae recomrended
that an intorview with Kenneth Krends, Alexis Johneon,
and Paul Fostnikoff be held before a final conclusion
wam mede. On 12 November l945 Meadquartere, Pirat
Counter Intelligence Corps Region requested their in-
terviows through v1s chsnnels.
4.  0n 23 November 1945 a aupplomontary memorandum
a
was prepared to correot certain variances in memorarlum
of 9 November 1945. These were:
'r. Richardson's designation as Vise-Consul
changed to consul, a certain portion of Richardson's
atatement regarding Krends diecusgion of Sublect,
and a change in the apelliné of Erends to Krentz, a
a correction of Agont'e notes regardinr Mrentz as an

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.95)
employee of the State Department, and a correction
regarding a Chinese that appears on page nine, para-
graph e of the original memorandum.
5. On 19 November 1945 Vr. V. Alexie Johneon, American
Consul in Yokohama was interviewed regardine Subject,
Yr. Johnson stated that while he rad no
proof as to Subject's disloyalty, Subject wes
pagchologicall meladj sted, evidenced no direct
loyalties to any country, nssociated exelusively
with Japanese, was socially ill at ease ith other
nationals, and becuase of his addlction to liqpor
was not entrustedwith confidential materiels at
theConavlate.
Subject's mother had shown evidenoe of dohious
loyalty to the United States according to r. John-
son who referred Agent to Vr. .Garland Lichard-
son, Arerican Conaul in Hanila for more detaile re-
garding Subjeet's mother.
Mr. Johnaon and Mr. Kenneth C. Frentz, Chief
Consul, upon occasion of repatriation of consular
employees emplained to Subject that his rerisal was
tatamount to refusal to accept the obligutiorn of
an Americsn citizen. They further explatned that
this refueal micht be construed as an attompt to
avoid milit ry service for the United States. Lewis
persieted in his decision to remain. The Ja enese
Foreign Office uaed every persunsion short of force
to convince Subject to accept repatriation. Johnson
and Frentz left Mukden and Bubject renained behind.
Johnson heard indireetly that LEWls was later interned
by the Japanese. Mr. Erentz who is now emploved at
the State Department in Washington D. C. mey 'ave pre-
pared a roport on this inoident.
6. On 18 January 1946 Vr. Kenneth Krentz, former
American Coneul at Mukden, 'anchuria, was interviewed
regarding Subjeot.
Mr. Krentz denied having made any statement to
the effect that Subject was disloyal, and stated thet
in his opinion Sub'ect was loyal to the United States.
Mr. Krentz believes that Subject's refusal to be re-
patriated with Consular staff wes because of vis mother's
influence.
7. Postnikoff was not located in Seattlet There is
no record of I. Youlaiff Sons Incorporated in Seattle.
CONPIDENTLAL

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.96)
CONPIDENTIAL
1les of Immigration on Naturalization Service in Seattle
ntain no records of Postinikoff. Apparently entry was
ade at some other port.
8. The above facts are submitted for your information
ind such action as yo" deem advisable.
Por the Com-anding Orrioer:
JUHN SARTOGA
2nd Lt., TC
Asst. Investigations Ofricer
1stribution:
2 copies - Arerican Consul
1 copy
- A C oF S, G-2, A SPAC
1 copy
FBI Liaiaon Officer
1 copy
Adm. Seotion
1 copy
FILE

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.94)
DC/R
JWAFC
WAR DEPARTMENT
OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF WAR
STRATEGIC SERVICES UNIT
25th & E STREETS, N.W.
CA
WASHINGTON 25, D.C.
L4-11,058
CORREL
13 June 1946
In reply refer to
JUN181946
DEPARTMENT OF
Temorandum for:
Kr. Jack D. Neal
Department of State
Subject:
Japanese Secret Societies in China
894.20293/6-1346
1.
The attached memorandum is forwarded for your information.
2.
It is not reported that this information has been made
available to State Department representatives in the field.
CS/RH
Attachment
Aiftor B Shoemaker k.
Jlifton B. Shoemaker, Jr., Lt., USNR
Liaison Officer
Copy to
2
RRK
ONI
1八
G~2

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
MEMORANDUM
Re:
Japanese Secret Societies in China
During the eight or nine months since the surrender of
Japan there have appeared numerous secret societies among the
Japanese in China. These secret societies are manifestations
of the secret political, economic and espionage activities
which are taking place in the Japanese underground in China.
The very number of these orgenizations which have been identi-
fied indicates that the Japanese in China as a whole have not
yet succeeded in achieving much unity of action. However, an
analysis of the information received on these secret societies
and on the Japanese underground indicates that there is consider-
able similarity in their aims and purposes.
The possibility that these various groups may unite and
achieve centralized direction and control cannot be overlooked
as a potentially powerful threat to American interests in China.
The public declaration of Genera1 MacArthur on 2 January 1946
in which he approved the idea of permitting Japanese with
technical and managerial skill to remain in China gives American
approval to a process by which many Japanese have been evading
the repatriation order. This process has been going on almost
since the end of the var and it is very probable that official
American disapproval would in no way hinder it. Many factors
re ssisting the &panese in evading the repatriation order.
Such facts as the ethnic affinity of the two races, anti-
foreign feeling mong the Chinese, the similarity of thinking
among certain sections of the Chinese Nationalist armies and
the Japanese military and the powerful connections which the
Japanese have been able to establish over a long period of time
with Chinese puppet military personalities and other economic
collaborationists, who, in the majority of cases, have been
retained by the Chinese Nationalists in the positions which
they formerly held under the Japenese, have all contributed to
the success which the Ipanese have had in remaining in China.
While it is undoubtedly true that many Japanese who are remain-
ing in China have no motive for staying other than a personal
economic one and do possess technical and manageriel skills,
nevertheless, the net result is that many more Japanese whose
motives are quite different and who do not possess these skills
are also managing to stay. The Japanese in this category are
former military nd intelligence personnel and men who have
commercial interests to protect.Achievement by any one of
these secret societies of centralized direction and control of
Japanese underground efforts would undoubtedly find the majority
of the members of both groups willing to cooperate to attain
common aims and objectives.
The general aims and objectives of the Japanese secret
societies in China, as reflected by thirty-odd investigative
reports received on the subject, seem to be as follows:
SECRET

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-2-
I. Political Aims:
1. To widen the breach between the Chinese National-
ists and Chinese Communists and to foment as much
strife as possible in order:
to divert attention from themselves;
(b) to weaken the effect of any positive action
which might be taken against them;
with their Chinese friends and collaborators
and to protect their economic interests.
2. To undermine the position of the United States
in China in order to remove a dangerous competitor
for Chinese friendship nd a serious threat to the
political end economic position whch the Japanese
in China hope to retain and expand by assisting in
the development of the Chinese army and Chinese
industry.
3. To secure the active assistance nd cooperation
of all Japenese in China:
(a) by stirring up cnti-American and pro-Chinese
feeling among them;
(b)
by combatting the growth of liberal thoughts,
ideals and parties in their midst;
(c)
by encourging the hope for an early ameliora-
tion of conditions which the Japanese have
to cope with by playing up the differences
between the Soviet Union and the United
States and Great Britain, differences which,
ccording to the pro agandists, will soon
lead to war and thus provide Japan with an
onportunity to make a good bargain with the
United States.
II. Economic Aims:
1. To discover ways and means of concealing Japen-
ese property nd assets in China both to protect
the interests of the individuals involved,
2. To provide funds for the expected renascence
of Japanese influence in China.
III. Intelligence Aim:
To establish an undercover intelligence organization
which will remain largely inactive until some future
time when its use will prove more fruitful.
SECRET

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
- 3-
The success of the efforts of the individual organi-
zations of the Japanese underground cannot be eccurately
determined, but the cumulative result of all of their efforts
is not insignificant nd can to some extent be assessed.
The political activities of the Japanese secret
societies have been confined chiefly to the dissemination
of propaganda and consequently are the most difficult to
assess. Reports received indicate that Japanese propaganda
hes been fairly wisely disseminated among the Chinese since
the end of the wer end has undoubtedly contributed in no small
degree to the stirring up of the anti-foreign feeling which
is becoming incre: singly prevalent among the Chinese. Direct
nolitical oction has apparntly been confined to the period
immediately fter the end of the var hen it is reported
cuantities of rms nd ammunition were sold or given to the
to the Chinese Comunists and Japanese military technicians
were encouraged to desert to them.
Activities in the economic field have epparently
been extremely successful and it seems likely that a large
percentage of Japanese assets in China will escape confisca-
tion by the Chinese government. It is reported that the
Japanese have experienced little difficulty in finding Chinese
ofiicials or former collcbortors either of Chinese or other
naticnality who can be persuaded by bribery or other means to
assist in the transfer of Japanese funds or to act as dummies
to hold ssets :nd property in trust for their former Japanese
omers.
In the ield of espionage the Japanese have also had
considerble success in planting undercover agents in China.
Many former members of the Japanese gendarmerie and other
secret service organiz: tions who are ble to speak Chinese
fluently have been discharged to assume Chinese names end
dress rnd to t: ke up existence s Chinese. Others who are
not ablc to : ssume this type of cover heve been planted in
oositions where former coll bor:tionists nd friends of the
Jaoanesc re :ble to protect them. Apparently it is intended
that they should remain quiescent until their positions are
demonstrably secure and conditions are right for their effect-
ive use in the restorution of Jenenese influence in China.
3 June 1946.
SECRET

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.95)
SPECIAL PROJECTS
NO. 143
DIVISION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE DEPARTMENT OFSTATE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
American Consulate General,
TientsinfHohina
July 19, 1946
DC/R
Allied Organizations and Plans
for Dealing with Them.
PARTMENT
THESHORCROLE
OSAC
12
ORETLTY OF STAME,
SEPAIVE
AUG7 1946.
MINGTON.
DEPARTMENT OF
5
894.20293/7-1946
I have the honor to enclose as of interest to the
Degnrtment a translation of documents from the files of
the Japanese Gendarmerie at Tientsin, made available to
this office by the Tientsin Liaison Office of the
strategic Services Unit.
Unfortunately, the Consulate General has not had
access to the original documents from which the enclosed
translation was made, and the whereabouts of these
documents is not known to the SSU officers now in Tien-
tsin. It would seem that the translation consists of
excerpts from a series of documents which an unknown
interpreter thought might be of interest to the American
Government.
H
The attached document covers reports in Japanese
Gendarmerie files between March and November 10,1941
and after the outbreak of war, and gives the names and
home addresses of officers of the U. S. Marine Detach-
ment, Tientsin, and officers of the Consulate General;
measures to be taken by the Gendarmerie against such
American official personnel; American banks to be closed
and property to be confiscated; reports on the disarming
of American Marines, and the Japanese search of American
Barracks; a list of American property confiscated;
Japanese measures taken against Allied consular person-
nel; and a statement of the disposition of cases of
Allied nationals arrested by the Gendarmerie arrested
on espionage charges.
The list of British nationals detained by the Jap-
anese includes as a curious mistake, the name of Dr. J.
Leighton Stewart, President of Yenching University, who
was handed over to the Peking Gendarmerie, and who has
just been appointed American Ambassador to China.
The list of Chinese nationals includes the names
of Messrs. Chow Wen-hai (T. J. Chow, deceased), Chens
Cheh-hsiang (John S. Chen), and Liu Chow-yeng (Frankn
FILED
6
nal.2
them
DECLASSIFIED
NND 780069
Re
ByNARs, Date 24Aug 178
Cat.
ke.
Dist.

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.89)
Tientsin Despatch No.
143, Ju1y 19, 1946.
-2-
them, the upanese detained ossrs. Hang Yun-chang and
Lun iei-shen, eployees of the china conomic Problems
tesearcl. Institute, who furnished .r. Chow with informa-
tion re curded by the Jupanese as military secrets"
chiefly infor ntion as to industrial production (cotton
yurn) in Pientein.
he co ent "utilized" which uppears after the name
of touter'e correspondent in Pientsin, r. Leon
ierstenzan, is cs interest und ay be a mis-translation.
The latter ithout knowin the nature of this comment
recently volunteered the infc .ation to an officer of
the Jonsnlute lenersl thut the Tupanose Jendarmerie
endeavored to u're use of his services, which he was
successful in evadin  by neans of a trip to shenghai.
nespectfully yours,
leefetner
ican JonsuGeneral.
111
olosv.o:
Cony of a translation of
711
P.Ilin
(ri inal mmd Pour cooles to epurt ont.
Jo  to  beuy, an in.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch No.
143, dated July 19, 1946, from
American Consulate General,
Tientsin, entitled "Japanese
Intelligence Regarding Allied
Organization and Plans for
Dealing with Them".
1.
REPORT ON ENEMY'S ORGANIZATIONS, ETC. AS COMPILED BY THE
JAPANESE GEND/RMERIE FOR THE PERIOD March to NOVember 1O, 1941
U.S....
(A)
Marine Detachment, Tientsin, China.
(Comnanding Officer: Major L.A. Brown; and 90 officers
and men).
RANKS /ND NAMES
RESIDENCES
Major Luther A. Brown
402 Race Course/Hong Kong Rd
Post Paymaster: Major L. Sullivan
398 London Road
Captain John . White
402Race Course/Hongkong Rds
lst Lieut. .. H. Weinberger
304Race Course Road
1st Lieut. R. L. Vroome
303 Race Course Road
2nd Lieut. R. D. Weber
398 Race Course Road
2nd Lieut. R. M. Huizenga
304 Race Course Road
Quartermaster Clk. L.F. Shoemaker
43 Talati House Hotel
Pay Clerk H. H. Dunlap
43 Talati House Hotel
Lt. Cmdr. (1.C.) R. H. Draeger
74 Wellington Road
**Measures to be taken by the Japanese Imperial Gendarmerie
for the above:-
(1)
To be disermed and captured at the Tominage
Reginent, and
(2)
Same to be done by the rmy or the co-operation
of the Japanese Imperial Gendarmerie.
(B)
)merican Consulate General.
RANKS
NAMES
RESIDENCES
Consul General
J.K. Caldwell
On home leave
Acting Cons.Gen.
S.J. Fletcher
21 Leopold Building
Consul
F.W. Hinke
271 Dumbarton Road
Consul
G.L. Burke
295 Colombo Road
Vice Consul
R.M. Taylor
19 LeopoldBuilding
Vice Consul
W.E. Yuni
434 Race Course Road
Clerk
II. Kushner
357Elgin Road
Clerk
L.J. Miller
5 Dumbarton Flat
Clerk (Russian)
P.A.D. Plath,Mrs.
Clerk (kussian)
H. Katz
Astor House Hotel
Interpreter (Ch)
F.J.C. Liu
Interpreter (Jap) T. Imai
1/23 Awagi Road
**Measures to be

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
**Measures to be undertaken by the Japanese Imperial
Gendarmerie for the above:-
(1) The intention of our side will be made known at
once to the Consul General as the sole responsible
party for the U.S. in case of war, and properties
are to be confiscated and duly sealed. The import-
unt papers of the consulate are to be indexed and
confiscated.
(2)
ll residences of the personnels including that of
consuls general are to be searched and those of
consuls re to be out under supervision by the
supplenent ry:endurmes until all the procedures are
duly ctrried out.
(3)
fter the tusks uinst the consulate and the resi-
dences or consuls re rinished, the diplomatic
bersonnels re to be interned ut the Astor House
Totel.
(4)
Finally, the consul te is to be locked and sealed
nd ut under supervision by the supplementary
rendernes.
(5)
The diplow tic n-rsonnels re to be sent to their
on csuntry vithin the fixed period as indicated
bye Jooonese rmy, neunwhile their movements
ure to be airected by the permission of the
Japunese ry.
14) heport on Disarmine of ".S. urines:
On Dece ber 8, 1941, 13: 30 Lours, Captain and men
numberin 1l (ineludin 6 su plementary Gendarmes) of
the Inouye Re i ent disurmed 51 murines including
officers: theperic:n Barracks without resistance
and trouble; tusk copleted t 15:50 hours.
(5)
Reoort on seurch nd investir tion on the American
rrac:
On Lece ber 10, 1941, 10: 00 bours, by order of the
Japnese  Ilit ry cprison Couunder, Major Anjo, Cap-
tain of J  nese Iperiul Gendurmes, conducting a group
of mendermes torether with the coonerstion of 160
sunoiement ry gendarnes und officers, the Second
Infantry of the Japanese xueiory rmy end Medical
Corps hude thorough search and investigtion at the
umericen Barrecks. All Movables were confiscated and
reurr nged. The searel wus mede under Major Anjo at
13:30, the following t ras und ammunition, military
appliances nd otl er ovebles were duly rearranged.
The whole work w's concluded at 15:00 hours. No
resistance or disturbance was mude by any or all of
the  rines and officers.
"e above-mentioned confiscated articles were
handed. over to the locel T: panese Expeditionary Army
Division.
l. rticles confiscuted:-
Pistol
1pc.
umunition723rounds
Hand crenades 53
Telephone ap. 8 sets
wall clocks

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
Wall Clocks
4
Binoculars
3 prs.
Trumpets
3
Pistol cases
7
Gun cleaning
Antenna
i set
tool
3
Pulley
1 set
Spring
1
Magazines
100
Screwdriver
1
Calc. Mach.
6
Typewriters
7
Canteens
59
Gaiters
60
Knives
72
Spoons
70
Vater bottles
60
2.
rticles to be
keot pending decision:-
Radios
3
8-mm Cine-Camera
1
Binoculars
1
Typewriters
3
Camera
1
U. S. PRIV TE RIGI TS ND PROPERTIES
COMNFISCATED
Location
Owner
Name and quantity
Ex. Fr. Con.
Frazar, Federal
Motor car
7
Inc. U.S..
Truck
2
Car Frame
5
ccessories
Many
Victoria Rd.
Eestman Kodak
Brownie-Junior and
Shop
other Cameras.
921
Mutograph
14
Accessories
many
Rue au .
China Electric
Various kinds of
Foch
Co.
tubes
2256
Rue de France
Ferber Motors
Motor Car
13
(J. Jiorris)
Truck
5
Accessories
many
Rue de France
um. China Co.
llotor car
2
Inc. US..
Factory installations whole
Accessories
many
York Road
Name in Eng.
Gasoline
2485 gal.
unknown
Kerosene
26245
gal.
Machine oil
275
gal.
Grease
85 1bs.
Kerosene tin
5483 pcs.
Empty drum
32 pcs.
**All to be handled by Japanese Army
Rue de Verdun

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
Location
Owner
Name and Quantity
Rue de Verdun
Name in Eng.
Cholera medicine
50 dòz & 10
unknown.
Blood tonic and
disinfectant
30
4
Anodyne (fluid)
27
11
Tonic Tab.
45
Eye Ointment
7
Cough Tablets
1
Laxat. pills
4
18
"(small)178
Talcic Powder
18
Aspirin
9
Influenza Oint.
1
Race Course
Race Course
Horses
48
Rd.
Saddle
33
Bridle
39
**All to be handled by Japanese Army
PROJECTS L DE .GAINST ARRANGEMENTS TOWARDS ENEMYS
M TIONL L ND PUBLIC RIGHTS
U.S.X.
1
U.S. national rights and properties ought to be confiscated:-
FINANCIAL ORGANS.
A.
National City Bank of New York. (6o Victoria Rd)
Capitul
US124,000,000.
Deposit
80,000,000.
Credit
6,000,000.
Manager
E. W. Torrey
B.
Chase Bank. (80 Victoria Rd)
Capital
US
500,000.
Deposit
520,000,000.
Credit
40,000,000.(about)
Manager
R. C. Fairfield
C.
Union Bank.
Capital
US$100,000,000,000.
Deposit
550,000.
Credit
unknown.
Manager
S. Wainer
D.
American Express Co. Inc. (Inside Astor House Hotel).
To carry on transportation and travelling business by
means of the capital of N.C.B. of New York.
Manager
Clarke (?)
ARRANGEMEN'TS MADE TOWARDS THE ABOVEMENTIONED BANKS
(1).
Four sections are to be organized consisting of gendarmes
and their supolements as well as interpreters to be
despatched to the seid banks instantly to deliver the
intention ofJapanese Army, and the banks must be locked
up right at once. Only responsible men will be allowed
to stay in and all others must evacuate at the same
moment, and adequate supervision and vigilance will be
given.
(2).
According to warfare code, all national ownerships such
as cash money, fund, bonds, transportation materials,
provision

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.96)
-5-
provision and stuffs and all other national properties
available for wurfare use must be confiscated.
A.Military inteltion to be conveyed to the responsible men
of manage ent, two senlarme officers together with one
technician a pointed by Army will conduct confiscation
work by sealin all the nationul properties and inventory
wiil be compiled.
(3) In courue of confisc ting, only proprietors and responsible
men ure ullo ed to participute, all others of no necessity
are strictly forbilden.
(4) Consult tion must first made vith the Army uppo nted tech-
niciuns to the orler of confiscution before effective
arraisemente will be c rriel out.
(5) In cour e of supervision of bank business, vigilance will
be un tert pen by eiht supplemont gendarmes.
** Forces.
Forees to be lesputehei to mdertake supervision work on
the four banks are us follows:-
Gendare orficers und soldiers
8 persons
Supplement gendarmes
16
!"
Interpreter (ne.)
4
11
..otor cur
1
Truck
1
Forces usel in confiscating properties:
Gendarme officer
1
Genuarme lieutenant
2
Technicul officer
1
 otor car
1
U.3. public ririts ourht to be confiscated:-
American Club und all uttachments.
Responsible mun F. . Spielman.
Arrangements made aguinst te ubove.
(1) Gendar e officere nuaboring eight persons to be des-
patened to the spot, ml iiitary intention to be
conveyed to the proprietor or man in charge that
further use of the suid Club is forbidden and the
sume must be locked up.
(2)
In course of confiscating, inver tory must be made in
the presence of its proprietor or responsible man.
(3) In cuse retaliatory arrest be m de by diplomatic
organs the saii club will be ueel as the internment
pluce for U. S. consulate general nd his suborlinates.
**Forces to be usel for supervision and vigilunce.
Gendarme lieutenants and soldiers
3 persons.
Supplements
5
Interpreter
1
otor car
2
Britain

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.88)
-6-
BRITAI.
I
British national rights and properties ought to be
co.riscutei:-
sritish militury he luuarters t ) venport Rd. now
being used by Tiuntsin University will be used as
mericn interiment place in cuse of retaliatory
intern ror civiliuns be necessary, and forces con-
sistin untre lieutenants und interpreter and
others u. erin firteen p r. ons are despatch for
supervision n1 vigilance.
Finacial orguns.
Ch rterei Buln or India, australia und China.
11.
(79 victoria .i.)
Cupital
unknown
Heai ofrice
London
unu, er
J. yslop
5。
Honckon unt Shan hi Bankint Corporation.
Capital
unk.on
Head orrice
tobckong
ama er
.. B. latnews
(1) In time of vur ledarations, necessary cendarme officers
and other forees will be lespatched to the said two
banks in  in t  presence of tiheir responsible men,
all t e ati mal o nereips such as cash money, fund,
bonds, unl other iti mal pronerties uvailable for
warfare will b conriseated accorling to warfare code
au d coreerhe i irvetory mst be compilel in oonse-
quence.
(2) hhe follovin proce mre vill be carriel out.
A.lilitry  tention vill be conveyed to the responsible
d or unu onent und tae bunk authorities after follow-
int the militur instruction ust post a notice dedar-
ing the temporry suspensi n of business in certain
specified eriol of time.
3
status of te start of wrole-sule urrest of the Intelli-
unce letworks:
The intolli ence tepurt ent or the occupution
Gendarterie : eadqturters started to be in action in time
of enteri into concessions, uni co-operution vas
invited fro. reservists and technicians. On 13: 30 hours,
Gendaries und supplenentary endar: es und interpreters
totalle! 38 pors hs livi let into three sections unler the
muidance of Cuptain Temori conlueted  search und invest-
igation uainst the in teliigence petvork prsonnels of
the eneay's unl tne t iri party countries in Tientsin.
Amone tne 33 black-listed personmols, 15 ere arrested,
und seurch was also co. tintally carried on. The netion-
alitio or the errested on th-t d y  re us foliows:-
British.............8
sviet.3
Japunese............2

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
Arrangements against British and American consuls:
LIST OF ARRANGEMENTS MADE AGAINST DIPLOMATIC PERSONNELS OF
ENEMY COUNTRIES:
NATI NALITY/LOCATION/NAIE OF /OCCUPATION & /DATE
/STATION
CONSULATE/NAMES OF CON- / OF
OF
SULAR BODIES &/CONTROL/CONTROL
FAHILY MEMBERS
U. S. A.
Victoria Consulute C.G. & Mrs.
Dec.8
Consulate
Road
Generul,
J.K.Caldwell
was sealed
U. S. A.
Cons.S.J.Fletcher
with the co-
Cons.G.L.Burke
operation of
V-Cons.W.E.Yuni
Army force &
V-Cons.L.Ford
Supervisory
Clerk Mrs.Plath
Staff con-
Clerk Miss H.Katz
sisting of
gendarmes &
British
Consulate
C.G. & Mrs.
Dec.8
army person-
General,
A.G.N.Orkdon
nels was dis-
British
Miss & Master
patched to
Eupire
Orkdons
superintend
Cons.J.P.Coghell
the consular
Cons.W.G.C.Craham
bodies'action
Mrs.Coghell & Mrs.
& taking charge
Grahan & Master
of the consular
Graham
V-Cons.J.R.Boyce
right. The army
Pro-Con.W.J.McLaughlinA
personnels were
withdrawn by
& Mrs.,Miss & Master
the 1st ten
MeLaughlins
Inspector R.H.Bill,
days of Feb.
& the super-
Steno Miss D.P.Thomas
vision work
Steno Mr.Eitment
Miss & Master Eit-
was left to
ments
the gendarmes
only. Since Feb.
Guard Lindson & Miss
19 Chinese polio
and liaster Lindson
Guard Pittman & Mrs.
men were dis-
patched to join
& Master Pittmans
the gendarmes
Typist Whiteman.
to continue the
British
3rd East Summer
non-occupied now 12/13
duty.
Rd.,P.T.H.Res.Bldg.
Bldg. were seale
Beach
for Br.
& locked with th
diplomats
cooperation of
4 in No.
army force.
Belgian
London
Belgian
Cons.R.Guil-
12/12 Same as for
Rd.
Consul-
laume &
British and
ate
Masters Guil-
U. S. A.
laume, inter-
preter A.Mer-
tars & Miss &
Mrs. Mertars
Dutch
London
Dutch
Same as Belgian
Rd.
Consulate
(acting concurrently)

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.94)
1
l6) Status of Judioial and Exeoutive Arrangements against
the Intelligence Ketwork peraonnel urrosted:-
The blaok-listed personnel of the enemy's and other
third-party countries intelligenoe Metwork were completely
arrested at the end of Junuary 1942. They were examined by
the Gontarmerio oadquarters und the ccupation Gendarmorio
Branch tation separately. Those of executive charaoter were
quastioned ane oross-examined. Till the end of February 1942
the arreated totalled 4o in nuaber. They were mostly dealt
with by the beginnin, or  rch 1942, und arrangements were
made as foliows:-
(a) Guilty against the ilitary Law and
being forwarded.....
11 persons
(b) ame, but not yet forwarded.......
4
(c) Guilty of executive oharactur: re-
lessed...
25
(Among them 1 being oxpatriated, 1
bein utilized by the Jap. Imp.
Gendarmerie and others being re-
Leased in oonsequonce of light
cases and incomplete suspiclon)
(d) ade to bo executively punished...... 5
3
(e) Honded over to other Military Regi-
monta.........
3
(f) Died of illness....
1
Arrangoments for those arreatel personnel of the enemy's
and the third-party countries Intolligence networks are here-
by listed belor:-

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.94)
2
NAME
AG
OCCUPATION
DATE
ATE
REMARKS
ATR.
RRL..
OF BRITISH NATHOHALITY
E. G. Mende
49
gr. of Routers, Ltd.
Dec/8
forwarded
H. B. Collier
40
C. . Customs
n
Deo/30
. R. Myers
58
Comr. of T'sin C
n
forwarded
G. X. Wallington
37
wireless opetr.
n
Dec/31
S. B. Talati
63
proptr. Talati Htl.
Dec/10
Dec/29
B. B. Talati
65
n
n
19
T. M. Talati
58
n
n
10
L. T. Beddow
51
Thomson & Co.
Dec/14
)ec/17
H. G. MacKenzie
55
Rob. rlano to.
Joc/12
Dec/30
Frost (?)
48
C. . Customs
Jec/8
Joc/19
M. Moutrie (?)
34
Broker
ec/10
Jec/25
L. Stewart
Pres. of Y. . Univ.
Jec/8
(handed ovor to Feking
Gendarmerie)
A. :. Soohorukoff
Ex-B C staff
Fet/2/42
forwarded
MacNally (?)
47
Undertaker
000/8
ec/24
OF  NY
C. Y. Eskeline
48
of ocony
Dec/8
Mar/4/42
case for'd
J. Morris
46
Mgr. of Ya Hei co.
Dec/13
Jan/12/42
Parker (7)
of Socony
Feb/1/42 (to be released)
F. F. Spielman
56
Frazar, Fed. Inc.
Jan/25/42 Mar/4/42
Mills (?)
49
of Socony
Feb/1/42 Nar/4/42
J. B. Sherwood
54
3
Bennedict (?)
53
7
R. . MaCann
46
Frazar Fed. Inc.
n
n
OF SOVIET HATIONALITY
Selkestolepetchloff (?) 50
Chemi-analyst
Deo/8
Dec/1)
Gabrenliku(?)40

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.94)
3
NAME
A0
DAT
DATE
REMARKS
RL.
Gabrenliku (?)
40
Broker
Dec/10
Jan/8/42
. Colman
40
"gr. of Grebstein
00/13
n
K. Mateuba
57
adviser to Prench olico
Force
ec/8
ar/3/42
k. Rawazaki
41
trader
000/15
K. Saito
54
Broker
ac/10
Jan/27/42
.. laiyasaga
35
Chairmnn of eavers' Guild released at once.
OP 
Liu Tze Feno
57
Trader
40/8
Jan/4/42
Liu Hsisan
57
upervr. of harfage ue
rfice, Sxc
Jan/17/42
rei Yong hang
41
BC police force
Dec/10
Hang Yun Chang
44
(of Chinese .rob-)
Jec/9
Mar/4/42
Hang ei hen
30
(len ocisty
n
Died on Feb/9/42
Chow en Hai
36
arican Cons.
17
Mar/4/42
Euo Jen Tze
ror. of Y. . Jniv.
00/28
handed over to eking
Gendaraerie
Chen Cheh Hsiang
41
typist of . cons.
Jan/18/42 Mnr/4/42
Liu Chao Yeng
41
Interpretor
a/6/42 r/4/42
Li Tai heng
38
coolio of eavers' Guild
Jan/27/42
Huang rel Ching
47
79
eb/7/42
to be
released
rei Tieh san
29
Chang Yung Nien
49
Deputy-Comar. of CNC
Peking.
Jan/15/42 Fob/6/42
WLITE RUSSLANS
Flandoff (?)
31
trader
Deo/10
Jan/8/42
F.I.Stoparroff 27

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.91)
NASE
AG..
 TI
DAT
DATE
REARKS
APR.
REL.
. I. Steparroff
27
of Routers, Ltd.
)ec/8
OF DUTCH NATIONAL ITY
C. Gerstenzang
29
of Routers, Ltd.
utilized
OF BEIGIAH NATIONALITY
Polfankel selgian (?)
riest
200/8
handed over to Hotung
Gendarmerie
A true copy of
the signed origi

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.94)
SECRET
WAR DEPARTMENT
OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF WAR
STRATEGIC RVICES UNIT
25th &EEETS, N.W.
WASHINGON 25, D.C.
16 August 1946
111
TO: Mr. Jack Heal
Division of Foreign Retivity Correlation
o artment of State
FROM: Chief, Dissemination Branch, SSU
The attached material, which has been obtained
from reliable sources, is being forwarded to you
in the belief that it may be of interest.
3/8-1646
File
F
AUG 1  1946
KEJ
Leetonch
Chief, Dissemination Branch, SSU.
Attachment DB 602
FILED
SECRET

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
SECHET
JAPAN SE INTELLIGENCE ORGANIZATIONS IN CHINA
Introduction:
The purpose of this investigation has been as follows:
a. To c∞llect in greater detail further information concerning the
highly complex Japanese Intelligence system, particularly con-
cerning:
Organizational Structure
Prominent Personalities
Methods of Operation
b. To corrolate this information into a comprehensive report on
Japanese Intelligence in China for future study and reference.
To understand the war time system in order to be on guard for
peace time organising along similar lines, by the same people,
who may use the war time methods of operation.
Sourge of Intelligence:
The basis of statements: in this report stem from information set out
in reports of investigation during the period from September l945
through March 1946 as compiled by investigators of SSU/D in Canton,
Tientsin, Peiping, Tsingtao, and Shanghai. The findings are presented
as briefly as posaible to give the report coherence, while in the ap-
pendix following each section of the report may be found the detailed
explanations, charts, etc.
It must be remembered that at the time of the investigation, certain
unavoidable difficulties inherent to the situation in China precluded
much of the evidence from Japanese sources. One predominant hinder-
ance which existed, and still exists, is the inevitable liaison which
must be conducted with the Chinese authorities in order to interview
Japanese military personnel, which in several instances has fruitless
attempts to obtain desired interviews. This has been particularly
true in Shanghai.
Also the general destruction of evidence by the Japanese following
the surrender has completely eliminated the possiblity of substanti-
ating investigations with documentary proof, hence a line must be
SECRET

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.98)
SECReT
drawn between information furnished by Japanese officers who were asked
to submit re orts, and the informations furnished by agents and con-
tacts; in most cases neither are authentic, and in some cases deliber-
ately false statements were made by responsible Japanese in order to
prevent detection of the true facts. gent reports are generally accu-
rate and true within the limits of error of human memory.
SECRET

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
TABLE OF
CONTENTS
Pace
CHINA SEA3 FLEET
4
TL LHAIGILI JAPAIESL NAVAL BSL CONTLND
9
THE SHANGHAI SPECIAL NAVAL LANDING PARTY
10
TH  NAVAL OFF IN  AG, 
16
A.
Duties
16
B.
Organization and Personnel
16
1) Chief of the Japanese Naval Office in
Shanghai
16
2) The General Affairs Section
17
3) The Navigation Section
17
4) The Investigative Section
1
5) The Press Seotion
19
6) The Information and Liaison Section
20
A. Duties and Officers
20
1) Information Room
21
2) Liaison Room
22
a) Listening Post
26
3) The Enemy Properties Control Roon
46
B. Eugene Hovans
*80
KIKANS OF THE JAPANESE NAVY
47
1) Manwa
48
2) Sakura Kikan
52
3) Kentai Yoko
53
4) Shingishi Kikan
53
Kodama Kikan
53
Iwata Kikan
54
7) Agmol
54
8) Others
55
RELATIONSHIP BETWELN THE JAPANESE NAVY AND SOVIETS 55
APPENDIX
57a
A.
Chart Showing Organization of Manwa
58
B.
List of Employees of Manwa
59
C.
Chart Showins Organization of Kodana Kikan
67
D.
Biographical Data
6
E
Eugene Hovans
30
This was prepared at a later date and therefore is attached
o the last section
SECRET

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
SYNOPSIS
The Japanese China Seas Fleet, under the direction of
the Naval General Staff, Tokyo, with Headquarters at Shanghai,
was responsible for the Japanese Navy's mission in China,
which was to combat enemy assault troops, safe-guard sea com-
munications, patrol channels of Yangtze and Whangpoo Rivers
and blockade China Coast. At Shanghai, these duties discharged
by Naval Base Command, Special Naval Landing Party and Naval
Office assisted by numerous Service Special Units. Naval Base
Command was responsible for the defense of Shanghai and its
vioinity, Special Naval Landing Party entered Shanghai in 1937
and oocupied the Japanese seotion of the city for the purpose
of proteoting Japanese nationals and their interests. The
Landing Party aided in polioing these seotions of Shanghai
ocoupied by the Navy, although primary jurisdiction rested in
other organizations.
The Naval Ofrice in Shanghai attended to liaison, collec-
ting of infomation both for the China Seas Fleet and the Naval
General Staff, Tokyo, in whioh matters it communicated direct-
ly with the General Staff. Naval Ofrice attended to negotiations
and settlements of affairs relative to Naval operations, defense,
protection of commmnications, purahasing of military necessities
and transportation. It maintained ∞ntaot with other Naval and
Official organizations. Navigation section, Naval Ofrice
obtained economio intelligence from amugglers, Investigation
section handled researoh Press section eulogized the entire
Japanese Navy. The Information and Liaimon section conducted
investigation and kept ∞ntact with all foreign nationals,
maintained a listening post and oontrolled enemy prqerty.
The Japanese Navy was helped in its intelligence work b
numerous Kikans and Yokos, which organized to collect material
and information in China. Towards the Soviets, the Japanese Na-
vy adopted a polioy of conciliation and appeasement and received
many favors from them in exchange for ∞ nveniences, during the
war.
SECRET
3-

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
THE TPERLAL JAPANESE CHINA SE FLEET
The Imperi al Japanese Navy at Shanghai, China was under
the control and direction ofthe Jepanese China Seas Fleet
which had its origin in and was responslble to the Japanese
Ministry of Navy and the Naval General Staff at Tokyo, Japan.
The Japanese China Seas Fleet had its Headquarters at
Shanghal, China and was composed of a Commander-in-Chief and
numerous staff officers. The mission of the China Seas Fleet
was performed by many sub-branches stationed in Shanghai as
well as the rest of China.
The mission of the China Seas Fleet was :-
1. To oombat enomy assault troops end safe-guard
sea ∞mmunications.
2. Safe-guarding channels of the Yangtze and
Whangpoo Rivers.
3. Blockade and patrol of the coast of China.
The following units of the China Seas Fleet were located
at Shanghai, China
1. Shanghai Naval Base Command
Commander: Roar-Admiral TOKUJI MORI
2.
The Shanghai Naval Speoial Landing Party
Commander: Rear-Admiral Minoru KATSUMO
3.
The Japanese Naval Office in Shanghai
Commander: Rear-Admiral KEIJI INATO
The majority of the duties of the Japanese Navy at
Shanghai were discharged by the Shanghai Naval Base
Command, The Shanghai Spocial Naval Landing Party,
The Japanese Naval Office in Shanghai. These offi-
ces will be disoussed later in this report.
The Japanese Naval Air Foree in Central China
Comman dor: Cap tain UNOSUKE UMEZAKI
SECRET

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
The Second Meteorological Corps
Conmander: Kenji MATORI
The Shanghai Naval Navigation Office
Commandor: Captain YUKIHIKO IMAMURA
The Shanghai Naval Transportation Office
which had a branch offioe in Tsingtao
Commander: Captain Yasusato TANABE
The Shanghai Naval Transportation Ofrice oontrolled
all shipping firms affiliated with the Japanese
Navy.
The First Naval Ordnance Office
which had branch offiees in Hankow, Tsingtao
Nanking and Poiping
Commander: Paymaster Vic-Admiral BUMPEI OMATSUZAVA
The first Naval Ordnance Office at Shanghai stocked
and supplied war goods to the entire offices of the
Japanese China Seas Fleet, and other organizations
designated by directive.
The First Naval Office of Aocounts and Supplies
which had branch offices in Hankow, Tsingtao
Nanking and Peiping
Commander: Paymaster Vioe-Admiral BUMPEI OMATSUZAWA
The First Japanese Naval Office of Aocounts and
Supplies was responsible for the supervision of
accounts of the entire offioes of the Japanese
China Seas Fleet and the purehasing and selling
of military goods.
. The Shanghai Naval Clothing and Provisions Depot
which had a branch office in Tsingtao
Commander: Paymaster Vioe-Admiral BUMPEI OMATSUZAWA
The Shanghai Naval Clothing and Provisions Depot had
the responsibility of stoeking and investigation of
clothing and provisions of the Japanese China Seas
Fleet and other Naval Offiees.
SECRET

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.98)
SEC R ET
The First' Naval Oranance Office, the First
Japanese Naval Office of Accounts and upplies,
and the Shangha1 Naval Clothing and rovisions
Depot, in discharging their duties as a supply
branch of the organization, had contaot with and
direotion of all firms dealing with and furnish-
ing supplies to the Naval Offices, It was to these
Offices that the firma of MAN A end OD KI
which, on ocoasions, were used as epionage agen-
cies, were responsible.
The First Naval Construotion Office
which had a branch office in Tsingtao
Commander: Captain KEIICHI FUJITA
The First Naval Construction Office was responsi-
ble for the Construction of defense posts and
general construotion work of the Japanese China
Seas Fleet, with the exoeption of the Second China
Seas Fleot. . The First Naval Construotion Office
had under this control the Naval Construction
Corps in North and Central China.
The First Naval Engineering Office
which had a branch office in Hankow
Commandor: Captain JONOSUKE YUZAWA
The First Naval Engineering Office was responsible
for the production and repair of warships, arms
and ground communication sets for the Japanese
China Seas Fleet or other Naval Cffices included
in direotives. The First Naval Engineering Office
direoted and supervised the work of the Kiangnan
Dockyard at Shangnai, China, and other firms
employed by the Japanese Navy in this type of work.
The First Naval Hospital
Commender: Surgeon Rear-Admiral SHINTARC KNAZAWA
The Court-Marshal Japanese China Seas Fleet
The First Naval Prison
Commander: Provost Captain AIJI NIR
The First Naval Mail Offioo
Commander: Commissioner YUJIO HIGOHAHI
SECRET
-6-

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRLT
The following units of the China eas Fleet were ot
ted at hanghai, China, and had no offices vhere':
The Japanese Naval Office in Peking, Manking,
Hankow, Amoy, Canton and Hong Kong.
The Tsingtao Naval Base Command
Headquarters: Tsingtao
Commen der: Vice-Admiral SHIGEJI KlKO
The Tsingtao Naval Base Command had the following ision:
a. To combat enemy assault troops
b. To safe-guard sea comunications
c. To blockade and patrol the coast of China
North of 330 North latitude.
The Yangtze River Naval Base Command
Headquarters: Hankow
Comman der: Vice-Admiral TORiO SAW DA
The Yangtze River Naval Base Comend was charged
with the responsibility :
a. To combat enemy assault troops
b. To safe-guard the ohannels of the Yangtze
River between Hankow and Kiangyin
The Seoond China Seas Fleet
Headquarters: Hong Kong
Commander: Vice-Adm1ral RUITARO FUJITA
Chief of Staff: Rear-Admiral YUZURU OKUMA
The Second China Seas Fleet had offices at Hong Kong
under the command of Rear-Admiral YUZURU CKUA and
the Amoy branch under the oommand of Vice-Admiral
SEIICHI HARADA. Its duties were :
a. To combat enemy assault troops
b. To safe-guard sea communications
c. Blockade and patrol of the China coastal waters
West of looo East and North-East of the line
onnooting Gopa point (Leighow Peninsula) and
the point 200 North of 1120 East.
SECRET

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Hainan Garrison
Headquarters: Sana, Hainan Island
Commander: Vice-Admiral KEIJIRO GOGA
Chief of Staff: Rear-Admiral KI JI SENDA
The Hainan Garrison had the following responsibi-
lity:
a. To combat enemy assault troops
b. Blockade and patrol of the China coast
west of the line connecting Gopa point
and the point 200 North of 1120 East.
The foflowing is the staff of the Japanose China Seas
eet looated at Shanghai, China:
Vioe-Admiral RYOZO FUKUDA
Commander-in-Chief of the China Seas Fleet
(May 1945 - August 1945)
V1ce-Adm1ral NAOMASA SAKONJU
Chief of Staff of the China Seas Fleet
(December 1944 - August 1945)
Rear-Admiral KANJI OGAWA
Assistant Chief of Staff, China Seas Fleet
(February 1945 - August 1945)
Captain YASUZATO TANABE
Chief of supplies, engineering,
Commender-in-Chief of Naval Transportation
Seotion of China Seas Fleet.
The following were staff officers assigned to the China
as Fleet at Shanghai, China :
Captain MASANOHI OGAGIRO
Captain TAKEO KATO
Captain TOSIIO KONDO
Cantain TAKESHI SHIMIZUTANI
COmmander HEDIACHIRO TANIOKA
Commander TADAHI SiIMURA
Commander TAKESHI HUOKI
SECRET
8

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Comman der GENICAIRO KIO.MI31I
Comman dor TO H LIIRO AAGI
Commander KAUTOSHI ASADA
Lt.Comdr. ISA U KO IYA
In addition to the above officers, the Chief of Staff
of the Japanese China Seas Fleet often called for advice upon
Commanding officers of the various units under his command and
bestowed upon them the title of staff officers of the hina
Seas Fleet, in addition to their title as Commander of the
various units to which they were assigaed.
THE SHANGHAI JAPANESE NAVAL BASE CO AND
The responsibility for the defense of hanghai and its
vicinity was, so far as the Jap enese Navy was concermed in the
Japanese Naval Base Command under the direction of Rear- Admi-
ral kUJI ORI and the Shanghai Naval pecial Landing Party,
under the command of Rear-Admirel MINC U AT UNO.
The duties of the Shanghai Japanese Naval Base Command
were mtirely military. The following dhert shows the offi-
cers' strength and duties of the Naval Base Command:
THE SHANGHAI JAPANESE NAVAL BASE CO TLAND
Commender: Rear-Admiral TOKUJI MORI.
Offices or detachments
Strength
Duties
under command
ieadquarters of the
Staff officers: . 3
1. Direotion of the
Shanghai Jap anese Naval
Officers
17
entire force.
Base Command
Sailors
:180
2. Waters under command:
(Commander: Rear-Admiral
China coast, South of
Tokuji Mori)
330N. and East of
120°E.
3. Safeguarding of sea
communications
The Shanghai Naval Port
1. Officers
1. Control of port
Affairs Office
Sailors
: 810
affeirs in Shanghai
(Chief: Captain YUKIHIKO 2. Morot boats: 49
Safeguarding of waters
IMAMURA)
Converted mine-
under oommand, and
layers
7
protection of naviga-
Ferry boats:
5
tion routes.
SECRET

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Tugs
11
2. aters under con nd:
Dredgers
58444
Shanghai port areas
Mud-cariiers
i d Yantze niver
Cargo boats:
belov Kiangyin.
Lighters
Tontoons
apanese Garrison at
1. Officers
64
1. Defense of Raffle
nichiashan or Raffle
Gailors
:1,088
Island end lafeguardin
sland of Pake Liehtao
2. River Gun-boat:
of waters under co unm
roup.
ATAK
2. Vaters under c ommand :
Commander: Captain
Motor bouts:
Central China coast,
PAKECHIYO TERANISHI)
"Suicide"
Jouth of 330N. and
a)tain TERANISHI was
Torpedo
North of Ta-chu Shan.
oncurrently commander
boats
54
f River Gun-boat ATAKA.
apanese Garrison in
1. Officers
133
1. Defense of Chowshan
howshan Arahipel ago
Sailors
:2,379
Archipelago and Safe-
Commander: Captain
2. Motor boats:
18
guarding of waters
KIYOHIDE FUJINO)
"Suicide"
under command.
torpedo bts:
2. Waters under command:
Gun-boat: KISI
Central China coast,
South of Ta-Chu Shan
and East of 1200 1.
hips under direct
Old-type destroyers: 2
Specific order
o men d:
River Gun-boats
issued whenever
Transports
necessary.
Converted sub-ohaser 1
THE SHLANGHAI JAPANESE SPECI L NAVAI, LANDING PARTY
The Japanese Shanghai Special Neval Lending Tarby, entered
Shanghai in 1937 at the time of the China Incidant. Upon its
entrance, the Special Naval Landing Party took over the orthern
SECRET

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
section of Shanghai, that is, that portion of the city nort of
Soochow Creek known as: non kew in which Jan anese nationals were
living. The pecial Naval uanding arty aiso took over the
Pootung seotion of Shenghai whioh is across the mangpoo iver
inmediately opposite the Inteniational settlement and likewise
was inhabited to a large oxtent by the Japanest nationals. Ie
purpose expressed by the Japanese in tacin these sections of
Shanghai was to protect the lives and interests of the Jap anese
people living there.
Immediately upon the outbreak of the Facific war, the
Japanese Shanghai Special Naval Landire Party moved into that
part of the International Settlerent lyin vetween Soochow Jreek
on the North, venue Edouard VII on the outh, Whangpoo iver on
the East and the Shanghai Raoe Course, on est.
After the outbreak of the Pacific war the Japanese Shang ai
Speoial Naval Landing Party oocupied a very seccndary position to
that of the Army. However, they did retain jurisdiction of these
portions of Shanghai which had been occupied by the liavy.
The duties of the Japanese Shanghal pecial Naval Landing
Party were to defend Shanghai in the event of an enemy attack as
well as to protect the lives and property of Janenese nationals
under their control. In its capacity of nrotecting the lives and
property of the Japanese nationals under its control, the Naval
Landing Party maintained a small Police Force.
The Japanese Speai al Naval Landing Party in Shanghai was
responsible to the Comnander-in-Chief of the Japanese China Seas
Fleet and it continued so to funotion until April i945, at which
time the command of the entire Shanghai area was assumed by the
Commandor-in-Chief of th• Japanese 13th Army. The Jepanese Spe-
cial Naval Landing Party in Shanghai oame under his direction
and took preparatory steps against possible enemy assaults in the
former Japanese defense zone and in the defense of the many Naval
establishments. The Commander of the Japanese 13th Army at
Shanghai in April l945 al so took over the responsibility for air
defense measures.
The responsibility of the Japanese Speoial Naval Landing
Party in Shanghai as a Police organization, was limited to the
safe-guarding of the areas under its command, and took whatever
steps found necessary in the maintenance of peace and order in
the Naval zone.
SECRET
-11

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.96)
SE C R E T
The Police duti es in Shanghed were under the direct
command of the Japaneso Gendanaerie which had powers to take
preventative measures, to conduct iuvestisations, apnrchennio.s,
and examinations as de med necessary.
The Japanese Jonsular olice assumed Police duties over
the Japane se civilians in hanhai while the hanghai unicipal
Police cowposed mostly of Chinese, had policing authority over
the Chinese and neutral national s.
In maintaining peace and order in the shan hai area, the
Japenese Gendarmerie directed the Japanese Consular Police cnd
unicipal Police whenever necessary.
In the event of the terroristic acts in the Japanese Maval
defense zone, the investigations, apprehensions, and examinations
of the suspeot or suspeots anu other forms of investigative
activity were performed b, the Japanese Gendarmerie or by the
Shanghai Municipal Police. The Special Naval Landing Party main-
tained close contact with thege two organizations and took what-
ever steps they requested or recomended in the maintenance of
peace and order in the Naval defense zone.
The followin ohart shows the composition of the Japsnese
Shanghai 3pecial Naval Lan din: Party as of ugust 10, 1945 :
(0ver)
3 E C R E T
- 12 -

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
THE JAPANESE NAVAL LIAISON OFFICE
THE COMPOSITION OF THE SHANGHAI SPECIAL NAVAL LANDING PARTY
AT AUGUST 10, 1945
Name of
Commanding
Number of
Number of
Total
Arms
detachment
officer
officers
seamen
Headquarters:
Rear-Admiral
1
1
NINORU KATSUNO
Staff
Captain K.
6
18
24
officers:
FUKUSHIMA
Lt.Com. Y.
KAWADA & 4 others
Adjutants:
Lt. H. YOKOTA
3
25
28
and two others
Office
Lt.Com. G.
4
duties:
MIYAMOTO and
three others
Surgeon:
Surgeon Cap.
1.
1
S. KATSUYAMA
Paymaster:
Lt.Com.S.
1
1
SUZUKI
2 13-mm
Officers & seamen attached
68
1,013
1,081
machine-
ttheeadquarters:
guns
2 redio detectors
14 heavy machine-
cuns
SECRET
-13-

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
Name of
Commanding
Number of
Number of
Total
rms
detachment
officer
officers
seamen
Headquarters
Com. K. TANAKA
25
618
643
7 12-cm AA gun
Unit
2 15-cm trench or-
tars
1 12-cm field gun
12 18-cm trench mor-
3 25-mm machine guns
tars
4 13-mm machine guns
24 heavy machine-guns
4 12-mm machine guns
14 heavy bomb-thrower
Northern
Lt.Com.M.
38
1,282
1,320
11 13-cm machine-guns
District
MAEKAWA
16 machine-gun cars,
Unit
4 15-cm mortars,
2 anti-tank guns
27 8-cm mortars
48 heavy machine-guns
12 12-cm A. guns, 3 light tanks
2 150-cm search lights
20 heavy bomb-thrower
31 25-mm nachine-guns, 7 armored
4 110-cm search lights
2 radio detectors.
cars
Eastern
Lt.com. T.
23
608
631
4 8-cm AA guns
District
MATSUDA
7 15-cm mortars
Unit
47.5-cm mobile A
guns,
28 4.8-cm mortars
4 40-mm mach ine-guns
10 heay machine-guns 19 25-mm machine-guns
14. heavy bomb-throwers 4 13-mm machine-guns
2 150-cm search lights
Pootung
Lt. Y.HAPA.O
14
347
361
3 8-cm A. guns
Unit
15 heavy machine-puns
22 25-mm machine- uns
8 heavy bonb-t rover
813-rm machine-guns
1 150-cm search 11gh
2 15-cm mortars
1 radio detector
12 8-cm mortars
SECRET
-14

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
Inner Listrict
Lt.Com. N.
27
591
618
1 I-type 8-cm gun,
Unit
KAWAMURA
8 heavy bomb-turowers
2 40-mm machine-guns
2 radio detectors
2 35-mm machine-guns,
2 medium-size gun
boats.
2 13-mm machine-guns
2 motor boats
16 8-cm mortars,
3 small boats
26 heavy machine-guns
(officers :211
19 12-cm AA guns
74 heavy bomb-throwers
Grand total...4,713
7 8-cm AA guns
3 light tanks
(Seamen 4,502
i I-type 8-am gun
7 armored cars
1 12-cm field gun
16 machine-gun cars
4 7.5-cm mobile AA
2 anti-tank guns
guns
6 40-mm machine-guns 5 150-cm search li ht
77 35-mm machine-guns 7. radio detectors
4 110-om search lights2 medium-size gun boa
31 13-mm machine-gunsts
4 12-mm machine-guns 2 motor boats
15 15-cm mortars
95 8-cm mortars
3 small boats
127 heavy machine-guns
SECRET
-15-

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.93)
SECRET
TH JAPANS NAV   O IN SHAIGH I. CHINA.
A. - PUTES
The Japanese Taval ffice in mangia was located at 27,
the und nd was under the coran or er- mirat KrJo I.
It was respousible to the Cor ha aer-in-ni or of the Japa-
nese Chine Jeas leet and attenced to liuison work cad the sa-
thering of infor ation conceming nval opercsiens.
This office also handled cther Taval affairs specified by
the Commander-in-chief of t e Japan ese i a leet and
collected infor avion under the diree cornd of th e Chief of
Staff of the Japanese Navy in Tokyo. In this latter conneotion,
the Naval Office in Shan ghai received nd sent information col-
lected directly to the Naval General Staff in Tokyo. The Naval
office also engaged in the gatherins of infomation vital to the
operations of the Japanese China eas leet.
The Japanese Navel Office in hanghai maintained close
contact not only with other Maval organizations, tut al so with
various Jpanese official organizations. his office attended
to negotiations and settlement of affeirs relative te aval ope-
rations and defense, rotection of conrunications, prchasing of
lilitary necessities and transportations.
B. - ORGNIATTON ND PER OINL:
(1) officers in Charge.
The Japanese Naval Office in Shanghai was conposed of one
Admiral or Rear-Admiral as Chief of the (ffice, three to five
Capteains, Co manders and It. Commanders as assistents in addition
to several Junior officers, as well ss civilian employees.
The following officers were in cnarge of the aval Office
in Shanchai:
Vice-ndniral ARaT. OKA
ecember 1941 - eptember 1943
Vice- dmiral F ICT MDO
sentember 1943 - love ber 1944
Rear-Admiral KYIJO INATO
sovember 1944 - u grst 1945.
SECRET
16-

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
(2) he Generel ffairs Section:
Phe Generl ffeirs Section porfomed overall execution
of general affairs of the offic? and al so matters not hendled
by other sections of the Neval Office In Thanghal.
Specifically among its duties were the following:
a) Adjutent to the Chief of the Japanese Naval (ffice
in Shanghai. In addition to regular duties as an
adjutant, he arranged travelling facilities for
officers, sailors and civilian employees.
b) The general affeirs room - handled drafting, recei-
ving end sencing of official documents, personal
affairs and merits of servicement, pay matters and
otier miscelleneous affuirs.
c) The internal affuirs room - handled the maintenance
of tne guaraing and the maintenance of order in and
our of the uard-room.
The comianding officers of the General Affairs Seotion
are as follows:
Captein T. KITAURA
December 1941 - May 1942
Captain S. KOBETTO
ay 1942 - Ju1y 1944
Captain B. KUWABARA
Juiy 1944 - ugust 1945.
(3) The Navigation Section:
This Section performed the usual customs duties. It also
conduoted investigation in the Shanghai aree concerning economi-
cal matters. Infomation in this regard was obtained by watching
the smuggling of goods, arns and other materials into Free China,
and the movements in and out of Shanghai of guerrilla bands.
The bulk of the investigative work of the Navigation Seo-
tion was carried on by Chinese. The agents reported to the
officials of the Jan anese Havy in their area. These agenta were
eager to obtain the goodwill of the Japanese, since their
servioes would be rewarded witn pernits to bring into Shanghai
cargoes whioh otherwise would have to be smuggled. Goods, in
order to be brought in and out of hanghai, first had to have a
Navy Certificate and then a oustoms Certificate. The following
men were known to be connected ith the Intelligence Seotion of
SECRET
- 17-

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.97)
BECRET
the Navigation Seotion of the Japanese Navy in and about
Shanghai, China :-
INT ELLIGNCE SECTION, MRIN CU O.3
Conmissionor MORI TAOKA
TAKEO OMAE
Chiof of the Politioal Sootion
TAKECHU FUKUSHIMA
Assistant
HIKOTARO SATO
SEIJI HIGASHITSU-
Shanghai Offioe
ZUMI
KATSU KAWASHIMA
TOKUICHIRO NAKA-
GAWA
HARUYOSHI WAKANO
KEISAN NITTA
YOSHIO IWADA
Woosung Office
SHIMRIU TANAKA
HIRO SHI HIDAKA
KENSAN IKEDA
KAROKU HIRADA
Yangtzepoo Ofrice
KITARO YOKOYAA
SI NAKAMURA
SEI YAMAGUCHI
Pootung Ofrice
KOMEI SUGIMOTO
YOHIGI OGAWA
SABURO FUJII
Chung Ming Island
HANEI KOBAYAGHI
Offioe
(4) The Investigative Section:
The name investigative Section is misleading. The
duties of this seetion consisted entirely of researoh work,
by whioh this seotion examined the problems confronting the
China Seas Fleet in the execution of its duties. Their en-
tire work was done from magazines, books and teohnical
SECRET
-18-

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
periodicals which were collected in and about Shanghal by
the Gendamerie. They al so received printed material fron
Japan. This Sectio performed no active intelligence func-
tion in the colleotion of information and date.
The offioers in charge of this Section were as follows:
Captain S. KUWABARA
July 1944 - November 1944
Commander H. TANIOKA
November 1944 - Augu st 1945.
(5) Press Sootion:
The Press Section, through newspaners, radio Stations,
News Agenoies, magazines, theaters and movies, handl ed the
press releases and publicity work for the entire China Seas
Fleet, as well as for the Haval Office in Shanghai, regarding
the war situation both on the China Continent and in the
Pacifio.
The ∞ntrol of consorahip was vested in Tokyo. In
Shanghai, the Army, Navy and the Embassy jointly controlled
censorship through a committee which was directly under the
control of the Embassy. The Japanese Naval Office in Shang-
hai furnished a representative to t hat committee.
A few days before the Japanese surrender, the Press
Offices were consolidated into one Section known as the KoHC-
SHU or the Standard Info rmation Office which was under the
direotion of Minister TSUCHIDA.
During the war, the Japan ese Navy at Shanghai kept in
close contact wi th the Press Seoti ons of the Army a nd Embassy
and eulogized the war results of the Jap anese Navy.
Publicity was direoted to the Chinese, third Party
Nationals and Japanese resident s, thro ugh the followi ng ch an-
nels:
(1) Publicity materials concerning the Japanese
Navy were furnished to the Japanese Newspapers
TAIRIKU SHDIPO and the Chinese Journals, in
partioular: SHUN PAO and SHI WA: PAO.
SECRET
- 19 -

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.96)
SEORET
(2) Similar nattern in the Japa ese language were
sent to the Do lei. News  gency and releases in
the chinese language were sunt to the Jentral
Press Servioe of China.
(3) Connene magazines and mcsquito papers. The
Jap nese magazines TAIRIKJ GEKKAN and SHI
T.IRIKU and the Chinese magazine SHUll PAU
monthly and tho SHIN WAN PAC monthly, and
others, as well as the Chinese weekly CUG
KUO and the mosquito paner SHAO PAO were fur-
nished with publioity materials concerning; the
Japanese Navy.
(4) Publioity material was also sont to the movies,
theaters and cultural organizations in and about
Shanghai.
The following personnel was attacned to the Press Sec-
tion:
Captain S. KAMADA
Deoember 1941 - 0ctober 1943
Captain K. ATSUHDiA
Ootobor 1943 - May 1945
Captadn S. KUWABARA
(6) Infomation md Liaison Section:
a). - Duties and personnel:
The Information and Liaison Seotion had for its duties
the investigation and mupervision of the gathering of infor-
mation, liaison work and the supervision of property of
foroign nationals.
The Chiefs of the Office were as follows:
Chiof of Infornation Room:
Captain T. KIT..URA
(Do0. 1941 - May 1942)
Captain S. KOBETrO
(May. 1942 - July 1944)
Captain S. KU.:ABARA (July 1944 - ugumt 1945)
SECRLT
- 20 -

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
Chief of Liaison Room:
Conder . OTAI
(Dec. 1941 - Nov: 1943)
Co mander I. TEJM
(ov. 1943 - May 1945)
Staff officers:
Lt.Commnder 0. KYA (Dec. 1941 - Nov. 1942)
Lt.Comnander T. HTNO
(Nov. 1942 - Feb. 1945)
Lt.Commander . MUCHIWAKI(Feb. 1945 - Aug. 1945)
Liaison Room:
Paymaster-Lt. G. MIWA
(Dec. 1941 - May 1943)
Paymaster-Lt. H. TORII
(Dec. 1941 - Spet. 1942)
Paymaster-Lt. N. OGUCHI
(May 1943 - Ju1y 1945)
Paymaster-Lt. T. IKEDA
(July 1945 - Aug. 1945)
Civil Officer T. NAIBA
(Mar. 1943 - Aug. 1945)
Civilian employees:
N. FURRA
(Sopt. 1942 - ug. 1945)
J. TOYODA
(April 1943 - Aug. 1945)
I. UTSUNOVIYA
(Apr11 1942 - August 1945)
Y. IKUSHIMA
(Dec. 1941 - Jan. 1945)
T. BIZEN
(Deo. 1944 - Aug. 1945)
S. ITASAKI
(Nov. 1943 - Auε. 1945)
(1) The Information Room:
The information room was employed in the gathering of
investigative reports and information and the co-ordi-
nation of information gatheres.
Among its duti es were:
1. Study and analysis of the general situation. This
was acoomplished from material sent from Tokyo,
Press reports, and local information compiled as
reference material for the China Seas Fleet. From this
material the information room prepared analysis of the
war situation.
2. Peace negotiations with Chungking. - This Seotion was
unable to conduot any activity towards the Conclusion
of Peacu with the Chinese Goverument at Chungking be-
cause the Central authorities in Tokyo prohibited all
branoh officers from making independent peace
SECRET
-21-

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
appmaches. However, a rapprochement with Chung-
king was attempted on one occasions by the 
KIK wiose Commanding Cfficer Po Jo OKA U A was
sent to hanghai by Adnirel SHlsIr vo, Chie
of the Haval Generel Staff in. Tokyo. Cormander
OK. WRA co-ordinated his activi ties with this Section
of the Navy.
3. Stren tuening of the Janking Government. The activi-
ties for the strongthenin of the  
Regime was done in Nanking and there was no occasion
for any activity in Shanghai excepi linison work
between the Japanese Haval organizasion and the
Nanking Offioers in hanghai.
4. Operational materials. - This section supplied the
Japanese China Seas Fleet with operational and refe-
rence material.
5. Analysis of the war situation. - This section per-
formed analysis of the war situation in the areas
surrounding Shanghai. This analysis was based on
daily Press reports and infomation supplied by the
Shanghai Municipal Government.
6. Naval Info mation. - The 'eace and Reconstruction
of the anking Government stationed on the islands
of the China Coast, as well as Junks operating in
the coastal waters, supplied information c∞ncerming
the si tuetion in the coastal areas. In the final
phase of the Pacific war, such information was made
difficult to obtain beoause of the American bombings
of the coastal areas of China.
(2) Liaison Room:
The liai son roon nad for its duties the investigation
supervision of matters which required outside contact
liaison among the Japanese Army aná Navy and civil orga-
ations.
The liai son Section handl ed all matters concerning the
anese Havy requiring co nt act with foreign and Jananese
anizations as well as other Jananese offices.
SECRET
-22-

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.95)
S EC P. ET
Those metters which conoerned the Japmese avy alone
were handled by this section in consiltat on vith the 
nese Army end  mbassy office in order to aintain close co-
ordination whong the three offices. in dealin wit. aif is
which required consultation with the Cehtral authorities of
Tokyo, The Jenanese rmy, Navy and Eabasey offices jointly
decided upon them after the reply fron rokyo was received.
As its most important duty, this section was commanded to
maintain close ∞-ordination among the th ree offices.
The following chart shows the organizetion of the infor-
mation and liaison seotion of the Japancse Naval office at
Shanghai:
- ) Over ( -
SECRET
- 23-

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.95)
NAVAL REGIDENCE OFFICER SHANGHAI
Rear-Admiral MINATO
CHIEF OF LLAISON OFFICE
Capt. KUABARA.
Assisting: Lt.Com. URI .
CHERK
ASSISTING OFFICER
TATSUMI
Lt.IKEDA
1
↓
RELIGION
LIST NING
DOMAI
GENERAL
RUSSLN
FRENCH
GEN
POST
LIAISON
AFFAIRS
AFFAIRS
AFFAIRS
AFJRS
&
&
Liaison
EBASSY
General
Radio News
News
Utsunomiya
Yamamoto
Toyoda
Namba
Fukuhara
Tajiri
asaki
Ichijima
Bizen
Iwasaki
-24-
JECRET

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
I o s o I was a former college rofessor of
locioloy. Hin drties were merely o eut as liiscn offi-
cer between the churches and the Jaranese uvy at hanghai.
According to his sureriors, he contented himself with
writing lon  thesis on the social aspects of varicus religi-
ons.
ILUNUSUF.  ODa, as a liaison's man of the Japanese
Navy, represented tiem in discussions with the Press ureau
and with the representatives of the mbassy and the Army.
ToHIo . B., the civilian affairs officer, was super-
visor of this section and controlled the activities of the
other six sections.
NOBORU RUULLL and TOYOKIOHI BIZ kept in contact
and kept the Navy infomed on the hite Russians situation
in Shanghai. To this section also blonged the notorious
UGENE PICK-HOV.NS, on whose activities a separate report
is being made. It hould be noted thet Russian Affairs, as
used by the Jananese Navy, confined itself to the White Russians.
In matters dealing with the .3.3.R. were always noted as
oviet matters.
Concerning the French, the Japanese avy et hanghai
exhibited little interest since the French community was divi-
ded into Viohy-ites and de Gaullists and were warring between
themselves during the entire Pacific war. Both sides, it is
rumored, co-operated with the Japanese wh enever it tend to
advance their oause or to weaken their opponents. CoOoperation
in the main was reoeived from the Vichy-ites since th ey were
more numerous than the de Gaullists.
There was, however, an undergrcund de Gaullists movement
mioh would recruit men of French extraction and immediately
upon recruiting then, would smuggle them to Indo-China or
some other place where they could be of more assistance in
the de Gaullist movement than at Shonghai.
According to his Conmanding officers, TAJIRI, was res-
ponsible for keeping the Navy advised of these matters, but
was entirely irresponsible and wnable to perform his duties.
TAJIRI, it is aid, is fron a noble family in Jepan and he
maintained his posivion more on his antecedents than on his
work.
SECRET
-25-

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.89)
SECRET
he er  rfar werem e 
a
irbicee cot
arious tern ofricer  offieial a
a
,,..;
Tap menbality is corpletply unsnjted to listeting-
ost work. ner are slow, c ublou inter, ahd em
ever mcke a aic cscision or tke pronnt nction vetore
linkine up o suitable reason cr exeuse Por such, a e"en
kcuse or reason ust be sifficiently water-tlant to bl n-
et its ori unator ugainst loss of face.
This mase of Japanese onaracter lured e great part
n the lives and setions of the officers an men Wuo were
ireotly above us when we worked as operators in Jupalese
onitor stations. It was elso one of the main reasons wiy,
n my belief, th ese monitor stations nlaved only a inor
nd passive role in Jepan's war effort.
Before entenber 20, 1944, I did not, know whether or
ot the Japs were monito ring mericun voice circuits, as
perations were still at some distance fre the Chin lonst
ne the hilippines, and I hed very seldo. heare any' i ita-
y voice transnissions, althougn I knew that voice was being
sed in communications between airoraft en ground stations.
rior to the above date, we took y traffie only, and only
ron one suation: VT at art  erwin, ustral ie, which was
sed o/ the U. .  avy. 1l the treffic from this station
res in five-letter code gmuns, and we never got to know
hat sort of material was being sent. I don't relieve that
the Japs ever dia either, because a Ja officer in han mai
old ne tcnths later that the ". . avy's 5-letter code was
lmost i pocsible to crack, and that only the men at Tokyo
Javal H.. could creck it. I do not believe that okyo's
listening post differed such from all t e others, except
erhens in quality cf redio ecuipment.
On Sept. 20, 1944, we heard our first close-range voice
sicnals when nl en es fron a neer-by tasr force reided anila.
e were ordered to five thsir frequeney, and as we cid not
evet have the sli ntent ides cf where to leolt, I thin: it was
 mere stroke er rate thet some pilot vas tal kins as 1 tuned
SECRET
-26-

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
over 4475 ke. s soun as the Jups heard the si mals, They
ordered us te ceey what was ceins saie. tt wes very diffi-
cult for the first few minutes, aa we dicn't kmow the tyyes
of calls the lanes were using, nor did we know the phonetic
alnhabet. However, after copying the whole day through, we
Learned more then any Jm ofricer had learned in Naval
Intelligenee chool. Then came the great task!nglis
speaking Jap intelligence officers could not understand what
we had written down! We, who had listened to thes signals
for just one dey, knew more than the (fficer in Charge of
the Naval Headquarters Listening ost in anila! le was
stumped on every line of our typed copy. He asked us to
explain messages such as this:
"BROWNIE LEADER frOm 21 BRONIE. CHICKEN DOWN AT
12 SALLOW FACE O35. PILOT IS GOODYE AR, EVERGRERN.
OVER."
We had heard several versions of this message from
several planes, andremembered such catches as : 12 miles
from SALLOW FAOE" "BERRING o35", "GOODYEAR is shOwing
EVERGREEN," "I SEE A GOODYEAR", nd "EYE MARRER," SO that
we had pretty good ideas as to the meaning of the whole
message, but the officer began asking ouestions:
"Whșt is 12 SALLOW FACE 035?" - e answered that
SALLOW FACE was probably a reference point, and that 12 was
the distance in miles end o35 the bearing. To which he
replied:
"Uh? I do not understand. Then, is GOODYEAR EVERGREEN
the Pilot's nane? .See, the message seys "PILOT I GOODYEAR,
EVERGRELN."
It took some time to cxplain that GooDYEAR was rubber
raft, and thet EVERGREEN was a dye marker which dyed the
water around the raft, probably a substance such as fluro-
reseoin. The officer merely blinked and asked us how ve
could be so sure of ourselves. Of course, we didn't bother
to toll him that we had heard patehes of conversations that
pointed to our theory, but merely answered that het we told
hin was so. We ourselves were jumping to conelusions and
guessing more-then-we hould have, and, strungely, were for
the most part correot; however, there were times vhen we
made awful mistakes, and had to do a lot of fast talking to
over ourselves and put the blame on some Jap by saying that
he had told us it was so.
SECRET
-27-

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.97)
CRT
y the time we had explained the dayt cony, it was
in the wee hours of the morning. he officer tren put his
seal on the copy, phoned headquarters, ivin em some of
the more important messages (imich should huve been civen
them as soon s they were received, to e of an value),
and left. hen we saw him putting his seal on our couy, ve
understood that he would be settin the eredit forht we
took, so from that very first day we resolved to j ble 
u as uch us we could.
his turned out to be an easy job. Japanese, even
the well educated ones, understand n lich best waen trey e
spoken to in Japanese nglish (I don't suppose I have to
explain the term); knowing this, we gradually switcied to
the use of normal nglisn whenever we had something to ex-
plain. This drove them to the use of dictionaries, and
finally to attempts at reading our copy by themselves, with
the help of a dictionary. This led to some very wierd and
comical translations of messages, and all jokin; aside, these
translations were handed direotlyto Headquarters wi thout
being checked by us. The few we did check were always com-
pletely wrong and off the subject. I add here that most Jao
listening posts were run completely by Japs, and very few
had Nisei as operators, because the military hated and dis-
trusted the Nisei. The Nisei, of course, understand n lish
and make good operators, but they don't like to remain as
operators as this is a rather low rank. ost of them
climbed from the position of operator to station mana er or
instructor. In alnost every case, the actual copying and much
of the translating was done by young ensi ns who had learned
their English at a Jap high-school or university. I spoke to
several of these boys here in hanghai, and watched them take
voice traffic when they came to visit our station. They
couldn't cony at the rate the words cane out of a loudspeaker,
and for the most part got only call-signs, date-time roups,
target-area numbers, and "OVER and OUT". Turthermore, none
of them could make head or tail out of what they managed to
write down. This is no isolated instance I believe that it
was the same in every listening post the Jans had.
Later, we made the officers at Manila Headguarters be-
lieve that we could copy many times better than their own
operators, md they would always take our version of a
message for the correct one. hich suited us very well, as
we began to "take it easy" when the Japs weren't looking,
and often wrote wh at we thought we heard and at ti es even
S EC R E T
-28-

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.98)
S E C R E T
made up messages when traffic was low. aking up essa-
ges was necessary, because the Japs used to get inputient
whenever traffic died down and would tell us to searcn for
new fre uencies or copy China - India ir Service traffic,
which was tiresome as the stations worked day and night.
On October 17, 1944, we noticed that 2716 kc. was
jammed with traffic, several stations working at the sare
time. fter some listening, we came to the c onalusion that
what we heard was a convoy, evidently in motion, as every
now and then there were messages such as "reduce speed to
3 knots," "steer 270", "exeoute 1 3aker," "vessel 030, 1500
yards, showing lights," etc. This was the first time we had
heard anything of the sort, but we immediately came to the
conclusion that this was a group of vessels not more than
400 miles away (judging by signal strength on that particu-
lar frequency) and. that it was probably an amphibious foroe.
e told the Japs that they were probably going to make a
landing somewhere in the Philippines, but they said it was
impossible, and that t here was no American fleet strong
enough to effect a landing on any island in the Philippines,
and they let it go at that. Early in the morning of Oct.
lsth, we noticed that many airoraft carriers w ere ωming up
on 4475 kc. for radio checks. This led us to believe even
more that t here would be a landing, as the signals we heard
were exoeptionally strong. Later that morning, we had a
light air-raid, and the Japs ordered us to find the frequen-
cy on which the planes were working. We found a lot of
plane signals on about 4950 kc, but it seemed that there
were not the planes over Manila. On further listening, we
heard montion ef  ACTAN ISLAND, and looking for it in an
atlas, formed that it was off CEBU CITY. The raid ontinued
all day, new planes coming over every two hours or so. It
was a grand show, and we didn't bother to write as we were
too interested in the goings-on. It was like listening to
a running commentary on a prize-fight. This raid was no-
thing like the ones we had over Manila, as many more planes
and carriers participated than in any raid we had experien-
ced. The Manila raids were an "every group for itself"
affair, but in this raid they used what is known as a "figh-
ter coordinator", who met all incoming aircraft at a ren-
dezvous point, and direoted them to definite objeotives and
tasks. Returning planes would give him the results of
their attacks and request permission to return to their
bases. On giving them permission to return, he would call
their carriers, and if necessary, request a certain number
of planes to ∞mplete the job. All this was put on the air
in plain language, except for suoh t hings as target-area
S E C R E T
-29-

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.98)
S E C R E T
numbers, and longitude-latitude posi tions which were p in
shackle code.  large number of "bogeys" were shot dow!,
and we heard many squeaky-voiced youngsters co mentin: on
how easy it was. e put this down on paper, and when the
Japs read it, they were not at all pleased, because they ad
to admit that the nrecise number of Jeps reported down
coulan't possibly be "enemy propagenda." ll ref rencc to
the number of Japs shot down was not copied on to tre final
day's report, and one Jap suggested that we do not emphasize
"our" own losses. Our reply to that one was " e thou'ht
you wanted us to copy everything we hear". Naturelly, we
continued this practice, but the Japs al ways saw to it that
nothing of the sort was included in the final report. On
can hardly picture a people who will not stend for mention of
their own losses even in an official report marked "CoNFI-
DENTIAL".
That same day, we listened to a long and interesting
rescue mission on 4475 ko. It seems that early in the
morning a small vo had ditched in the channel between Mactay
Island and Cebu City, and the cruisers "KINGFISH" and
"CLAWBACK" (code names, of course)·sent up their scout
planes to piok up the pilot, who was reported to have been
resoued by a native boat. The two planes covered the whole
channel at a very low altitude, buzzing every boat they saw.
Many of the boatmen waved at the planes in a friendly manner,
but the missing pilot was not seen. The plenes were ordered
not to attempt a landing on the water as the sea was rather
rough, and after all stations had come to the conclusion that
the pilot was in good hands, they were ordered to fly home.
We didn't sleep a wink that night, nor the next five
days and nights. The big attack on the Philippines which
we had been dreaming of since the first raid on Manila had
finally materialized, we thought, And we were not the least
bit mistaken, for as soon as all planes had been reported
"on the deck" we tuned to 2716 kc, which was buzzing with
activity. All night, we listened and tuned over the the
medium-wave bands. Many channels were in operation, and on
each channel, the control station went under the call sign
"HALIFAX". e took it that HALIFAD was the "Big Boss" of
all the operations, and were quite correct,  scause many days
later, after the landings had taken place, a station called
Tacloban Field, requesting that a jeen be provided at the jet-
ty for "LLIF x MsLF" at a certain time. No doubt LIFAX
S E C R E T
-30-

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
HIM3ELF was old man MacArthur.
That night (were still on Cct. 18th) we found severel
chennels on which communications were lon the following
lines :
"ACE FrOn RIVATERR. SALVO...... FLA."
"PRIVATEER TrOM ACE. NO CHANGT, NO HAGE. R 
STARSHELL RATE TO ONE EVERY BHREL MINUTES."
"ACE frOm PRIVATEER. ROGER."
"ACE FrOM PRIVATEER. SALVO ... FLAL:. PRIV TER
OUT."
What was this? Never heard the like of it before. e
asked the Japs; they siezed our copy, ot together for half
an hour, and then enlightened us with the statement t at
they didn't know, and that we had probably missed out lany
words. In the meantime, we talked it over: SALvo and Ti
- artillery. STAR SHELLS - further proof of artillery.
ACE - the soout planes sent on the rescue mission the pre-
vious day had the call signs ACE KINGFIsl and  ID GL: BO,
and no doubt the ACE in question was ACE PRIV TEER, a scout
plane from the ship PRIViTERR. The only ships we knew to
carry scout planes were cruisers and battleships, so the
only conclusion we could possibly have come to was that PRI-
VATEER was a CA or BB, bombarding a target, and that ACE was
its air spotter. NO CHA GE. NC CH  GE varied to UF 50, NO
CHANGE, or LEFT 50, NO CHANGE, or UP 50, RIGIT 100, so it
could only have been what we now know it was - firing instruc-
tions. All this we explained to the Japs, adding that it was
probably C BU CITY that was being bombarded. This made them
get together for another conferance, after which they all
went off to sleep. The next day they were all grouchy, and no
doubt plamed the whole blitz on us.
a
October 19th started early. Arounl 4 a.m., on 4950 ko,
a rather aleepy operator drawled "HALIFAx to BINGO BASE.
RADIO CHECK" the answer came back "BINGO BASE to LALIFX.
READ YOU 5 BY 5." and so it went with BANJO BASE, TIGER
BASE, BRONCO BASE, PEDRO BASE, TEXAN BASE, GALLEY BASE, AR-
CHER BASE, LOCUST BASE, and all the other airoraft carriers
in the task foroe. Pretty soon, the first fighter controller
(ELMHURST 1) had reported on station at "POINT ESY" and
HALIFAX was instructing each carrier to send up certain num-
bers of VF's VT's, and VB's to rendezvous with him at PO T
EASY and receive their target assignments, POINT EASY,
SECRET
-31-

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.97)
S E C R E T
judging fron following conversations, appeared to be
somewh ere over LYTE GULr, and we noticed that not all
the planes were being di spatched to CEBU, but that most
of then were assigned to numbered t arget areas. ater
ention of towns suon as JAno, C. IGAA, Ta U, DuLAG,
and LACLOBAy, showed us that the main force had been s ent to
EYTE, where the ycommenced shooting up airfields, beaches
and trucks along the coastal high way. By noon we had heard
mention of "Naval ordnanco" "trajectory" end "height of
naval ordnance." This led us to believe that a llaval bomb-
ardment was al so in progress, and a quic check between 2
and 7 megacroles proved this. We found several frequencies
on which spotter-planes were working with fleet units.
HALIFAX sent frequent orders of this type: "ALL PL.Es from
HALIFAX. HSIGHP OF NAVAL GUNFIRE IY T ACLORAN AREA T 1500
FEET." and EIGHT OF NAVAL GUNFIRE ALO G.BEACH ITARGET
AREAS 5254 and 5354 AT 1000 FEET". The he1ght 1ncreased
shortly after noon, whioh howed us (not the Japs. They
were too slow to follow the whole affair and were s till
using the diotionary on yesterday's copy) that the gunfire
was going inland. That morning we had heard a message that
set us thingking; it was addressed to {LIFAx from a plane,
and the part we reoeived went like this: "UNDERWATER DEMO-
LITION CREWS HAVE COMPLETED THEIR WORK." We Were St1ll
working on it in our subconsolous minds when HALIFX gave
the order to all plnes returning to base not to fly over
Leyte Gulf. Several times after that, planes called HALIFAX
and Pequested "PERMTSSION TO INVESTIGATE SH IPPING PROCEEDING
WESTWARD IN LEYTE GULF," which made HALIFAX give the order
for al1 planes to "OBSERV STRICT RADIO DISCIPLINE REGARDING
SHIPPING IN LEYTE GULF. BY NO MEANS, I REPEAT. BY NO MEANS
WILL ANY AIRCRAFT PROCEEDING TO OR FROM TARGET AREAS FLY OV ER
LEYT GULF. OUT." The operator was quite peeved, and I
believe that more than one pilot received astrong reprimand
on landing. I don't see why pilots were not notified verbal-
ly before take-off, that any shipping in the Gulf would be a
friendly landing force. As a result of these careless re-
marks, it is possible tha t the Japs on Leyte took precau-
tions against a possible landing.
Immediately after this came mother order from HAlIFAX:
"ALL PLANES RESTRICT YOUR ATTACKS TO TARGETS WEST OF COASTAL
HIGHWAY. DO NOT, UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES, BOMB OR STRAFE
CRAFT APPROACHING BEACHES OR PERSONNEL ON BEACHES."
SECRET
32-

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.97)
SE C RT
Thus, we were sone of the first people in anile to
learn thet a najor lending had teken place on eyte. That
evening, when I went to visit my girl, I told her the news.
I caut ioned her that there had been no o ficial bro deast
fron an Francisco, and prcbably would not be for cne or
two days, ane that we were the cnly ones in town vhic knew
about it, therefore to e careful to who. she passed it on.
The next dey, half the town knew - the trustworthy half, and
the Ja s were completely unaware of the fact, we had made a
habit to sive her all the news we heard, and she in turn
passed it on to her friends and relatives. By this method
the penish com unity was always well informed, and I add
here that most of the middle-cl ass han iards in  anila were
hand-in-hand vith the guerrillas. e al so tola our house
servants'the nevs: t'vo of these boys were members of th:
R.C.T.C. guerrillas. The Japs who livcd and worked with us
often beat ther un, &nd I had received more than cne promise
from these boys th at they would knife these Japs at their
first opportunity. They had their opportunity about a
monin after we left, and I hope they tool full advantuge of
it.
By eve ing, beach-heads hat been secured, radar sta-
tions and . batteries installed. Target pottin was taken over
by 030.: Stations (0-5  was the first one to cone on the air),
and soon these  Bo stations were giving fire control to CHAiE
stations (C-23, C-24 etc. e understand that these are land
artillery ∞mp mies), as well as to ships. hen the beach radar
station (". cola") began giving battery-control colors, we
gathered that the beadhes were under light but persistant air
attack. Also, there were many erican planes flying around
with inoperative I.F.F. This was quite a nuisance, because
P IcoL was maintaining "FsI RED" condition most of the
time when danger was non-exi stant, and this hela up a lot of
the unloading of su plies at the beaches. (I learned this
fron a puarrel botween the operator of P IcoL and one on
bourd an F; vassel). Of course, such occurrences are unavoidable
when there are so many factors inyolved, and I must say that
desrite many hitches, supplemented b red tape and last-minute
changes, the landing was excellently carried out, and I under-
stand it came as a total surpri se to the Japs, resulting in
light casualties in man and equipment during the first few
days of the operation.
S EC R ET
-33-

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.93)
JECRET
The next few days are not clear in my ind, es far as
the sequence of occurrences co es, because e had almost o
sleep from the 17th to the 25th. 1 retemuer us workin for
stretches of 36 and 40 hours, and then just passin o.
further aggravate our plit, the food we were etti was
far from our daily reguirements. It consisted of o. e 4-i ch
dried fish and rice in the morning, two 4-inan dried tiah nd
cooked grass for lunch, and cooked gress wit meat sernsnd
rice in the eveniny. lack coffee was avai lable any e of
the day, but they rationed our sucar so that we coui o ly
have a cup efter each meal.e almost kissed the Jho
dropred in late one nicht and, bless his heart, roduced, of al
things - Hot rees - "by order of the Comman er, ond with his
compliments, in anpreciation of vour diligence." owever, a
couple of hot dogs din't pep us ur enou i to get us out of
the stupor that prevented us from telling day from mignt, to
say nothing of the date. All we had in our minds were signels,
oall-sins, frequencies, task forces, end c..'s. I areamed,
in one of my pass-outs, that I had stolen a Jan olene and lended
safely on an veri can carri er, forthwi th. I wes t sken to the
mess-room and fed State-side food, all the while cnattin with
the pilots, whoss voices and names I knew so well.
I believe it was on the mornins of the aoth that soo ut
planes reported a Jap leet off t Is. (at the e stom
entrance to Le te Gulf), and another in A  ST? m,  still
another coming in f rom the South into Leyte Gulf. re leber
clearly the order given b umFY to 99 GY (ho was
EL itUtsT 3, fi hter-coordinator) to take some olan es and in-
tereept thhe fleet coming up from the south. e we t o'f with
several. VT's, VB's, end VT's. he VM's were, luckily, carry-
ing two 500 pound, and several l00 pound bembs sach, md the
VT's ecch carriad a large tomedo, hile the T'e ha sull-tond
machine-guns and  mckets each. Soon  y peperted to
HAIFAX:
"LLIFAX - 99 GALLEY. AV E YNTACT T J
ELEET GROUP. LID BY THO CA'S, SCORTED Y FIV
DD'S ND INGIDING ONE CV D ON CVE."
"IHI IS 99 GALLY: VICT PR SPLIT UND
ATTACK TEF CA S. VIOTO B MEBS APTACK S 'S ND
CV'S. TN TAKE DD'S WITHI LIEHT CTEER BO SS.
VIC TO FOXES STRAE DD'S TEH ROCRNTS."
S EC R E T
-34-

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.91)
SECRET
-99Y
.C"
Then there was silance. ive minuse 1 te", o Y
reported bhat te tnd sunk one oo th cntd core, hoay iy a maged
the other, and disoersed the deatrovers.
 of  carr ers
was listing heavily with  destmyer atanan by.eter is
planes had expended thetr am o, they otamed to base.
Right after this, LALTrA ordered l stationo to
observe strict radio silence, and told the planes to switch
to VHF, limitin their communieations to ianortont messa -es
only. Fop the real of the day, th cir was not so mlon as a
peep on 4950 ke, or any other ch annel. hile lookiu" over
the dial in the afterneon, T came over a y tre mane mere
I heard:
"TIT TS NVY HVIF,
YTE GULF CULIW T
GTICY. FERGEICY. THITYTE."
end then, silence. very now and then en excited voice would
come un on 4475 ko, saying something like " 00D IT, JTY. I'LL
GET TE OTHER O" whereupon ALI woul? say "T  TLL
OFF H  R, YoU - - -" And there we sat, bitine cur reils
all aftermoon. Late in the eftemcon, I notif: ed all
planes that they c ould only 1 nd at y 1,  tat T y 2
end 3 have scattered and were under snok screens. e : thered
that the TArFTES were arrier-grours. The lones were told to
land at either Dulas or an cirfield thnt went under the name of
"Pup TooL B J". This ney have been aclobm Ficla, but as I
rexember, I believe that pert of it was still in the honas of
the Japs at the time. Some time that evenin we found a
freguenoy on whioh someone was instructin s mecno el se to load
all planes with heavy bombs an? torpedoes as that was the stuff
that did all the good work. He cautioned areinst lettin green
pilots up in heavily loaded planes, ss soe h already essed
up the Field in unsuccessful take-offs. Ho said that he vould
give the next days instructions on a frequeney that he geve in
shackle code, and that it was imperative t: t the Jas were not
let in on tomorrow's plans.
We figured this frequeney would be in the Vip recion, so
we didn't bother to look for it, but late that niglt I accide tel-
ly came over a channel on which that sane operator was saying
"all right," the, I'll be seeing you in the moming.".ell,
that was that; we had missed it. The next day there was more
silence. The Japs were happy, and many said that the silence
SECRET
-35 -

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.90)
0
二CE
was due so n  ori . fetret. We let he baen i the u
shine or their the pes, suo nou for lone, for after tht zind
e  ore groe stio ce n the ir, e even 
C  a on te ir under u  si, i
to us me tt  sous isi was ore.  ri seo
said the the Jap fieet hau su'fereu mor dere, ana ad
bee reun ceu to a lediu sized vash reree.en
Irioune' d Jokio xadlo suiu tha tne lid fiect u veen
disper seu and hv left the fo rees on Leyte to the aerey of the
Irperi 1 Jaanae r. nowever, 'ohio adio u nee ontion
how nercifur the  doertl Jup riay na rovo, arlow
merican. orces to rive deeper und deeper to e isie of
eyte.
Up to nov, the Jups had not takon suriously our soatoment
that a landin; hed been made on Leyte - they believed onl what
they heard Prom lokio Radio. This nad a rathor nfusing
effect on the reports they ∞mpiled for icudquarturs, because
whereas we took down traffic which always wentioned troops on
shore, merican pines on Taclobun arfield, erican ips in
Tacloban harbor, etc., the Japs had to compile a final report
which did not point too much to a landing. lso, when the Japs
announeed t si "vi ctory" over tae unerican an ustrlian
fleets in woyte ulf, tley nentioned that these flcets wera
interee ted in in ttaipjed landine by the ever-vigilant Jap
fleet, and that she landing had completely failed as a result
of the action tak en by the Japs, ulthough a "small nu uor of
allied oersonnel had succceded in reachin she beaches and
were beine wiped up b local Jap garrison forees." hen this
report cale through, the Japs, believing it, made us unaerstand
that we were only operato rs and that our duty was to copy down
traffic - not to voice opinions as if we were s enior officers.
In other words, we were to hand ourcony to the Jap officers and
let them do ali the thinking. By order of the Connander, "who
had been quite upset by our statements which were most untrue
and of a careless nature. They further made us understand that
if we had been Japamese, it would have been al1 the worse for
us. However, this statement was voiced by a Headquarters repre-
sentative, and we were later told by KUBo, the Jap who hed been
put in charge of us by IkUaHIMA because he was useless for any-
thing else, that we had been doing a swell job, and that we knew
our stuff, but that the Headquarteregang were a hard-headed lot
and had to be given their own way. KuBō was joined in his state
ment by Ensien Mayeda, a young headquarters officer, who admired
and envied us for our ability as operators. Kubo didn't seem to
give a damn for his own kind: he had been educated in America
and seemed to like foreigners. He also had a soft affection for
SECRET
-36-

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.97)
C1
the wiisky bottle; woins around, with a red faee wost or the
 e. arede once tolo us, "because I a Jananese, I must
not discuss it, but to you I can say that I vish the Tananese
coul fignt like mericans. e are too serious in our
fighting, while the mericans make a game of it." Nodoubt, e
had in ind the many cracks  merican pilot mace while in
danger and in the midst of battle. e had made a habit of
writ in; down all the wiseoracks we heard, md there were an.
fter the 25th, traffic died dovm to routine messages,
and all planes worked on VHF, making it impossible for us to
hear them. y this time the Japs had collected an as ortment
of "operators", who were to work 8-hour shifts parallel with
us working on 12-hour shifts. These "operators" were supposed
to see tiat we didn't fall asleep on our beat. One of the
fellows the Japs produced was a ortugues-Japanese from
hanghai, by the name of Tommy Silva. e made friends with
him quickly, as he proved to be a swell guy. It seems that he
used to work as salesman for Yangtze Motors here in hanghai,
and was sent to anila early in 1944 together with his mana er.
The manager returned to Shanghai, leaving ilva in anila - on
the lurch -, whereupon the Navy grabbed him and put him to work
in our station. rie couldn't copy a word to save his life, and
it took a couple of weeks before he learned the basic fundanen-
tals of voice communication. He was of very gre t help to us,
because whenever his duty was at night, we used to turn on all
the sets in one room and let them blare away, while the three
of us moved into another room, shut all the doors and listened
to swell music from San Franoisco over a bottle of gin or
whisky, which the Japs always had in stock. ll the Japs slept
in an adjoining house, and never got wise to our nightly cele-
brations. e were, of course, celebrating the Leyte landing,
for vilich we had a special affection, since we knew more aout
the operation as a whole than any junior officer in the U..Army,
or Marines at the time. We still think of this landing as ir we
had actually taken part in it. Our reports on such nights
usually read: "2000 to O400. Little or no traffic of importance
on 2716 and 4475 kc. Spent much time 1boking over dial for
channels which might have been operating, but results negative."
And really, there was absolutely nothing of important to report
on. ven raids on . anila didn't produce much opy, as all
communication was on VHF and we had no VHF receiver. The Japs
said they would supply us with one soon, but none was forth-
coming, probably due to jealousy on the part of the H.. staff,
who were only too glad to see that our reports were getting
smaller and smaller. They, of course, copied down all the
unimportant traffic that came through on 27l6 ko. This frequenoy
was now being used for harbor-control and messages such as this
8 e o r  t
-37 -

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
were plentiful:
"JOVIAL 742 FrOm WEETCORN. PLEAS ELY O JOV
748 LH FOLLO ING MESSAGE - THI: I3 M7 022125.
ACTION JOVI AL 748, INFORMATIOT JOVIAL 74O nd CORD-
WOOD 340 - REF RE CE YOUR 021630 IT ON (FK)
KILOCYCLES. AFTIR A IVE.PL ASE REI Y O TO
ADDE
Very informative - what? These messages with reference
to previous ones sent on a TARS B UG channel (note five-
figure shackle group in the message) were of absolutely no use
to anyone but the addressee. towever, they were sent and
repeated many times, allowing Jap operators oonortunity to fill-
in portions which they missed. The Japs liked this, and as their
superiors judged their work by volume, they were happy. e
could never get ourselves to copy suoh trash; thus i.. always
had the edge on us in bulky reports. It seems that Jap commen-
ders judged their subordinates by efforts ex ended; not by
results achieved.
In the meantime, as I am an ardent "ham", I was greatly
intrigued by the possibilities of long-skip VhF signals. I
wanted to know just how the sporadic -layer behaved in tropi-
cal regions. With this in mind, I went to our station's rep ir
shop and dug out a TN7 tube. By the end of the day I had a
simple super-regenerative VHF receiver in operation. Cur
Packard-Bell disc recorder's amplifier section provided lenty
of audio gain, and after receiving several grunts of disappro-
val from our station engineer, who did not like my meddling
around with "sets before "oonsulting" with him, I set up a VIF
antenna in one of our operating rooms and went to work. I iad
two coils on the set, one of 5 and the other of two turns. The
five turn coil brought in the local airport station and some
Jan planes with tremendous volume.
The noxt time we had a raid, I listened on my set, to the
great resentment of my superiors, who gathered that I was merely
wasting valuable time. To the delight of my superiors, I was
unsuocessful, but I was not discouraged. That evening I made
two coils, a one-turn and a half-turn affair. The set would go
out of oscillation on the high frequency half of the falf-turn
coil, but at a point just before tat, I noticed a 500-cycle,
SECRET
-38-
7

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.97)
S E C R E T
wide-band carrier. Ah! the Hanile Radar.  called uonsi n
Hayeda and asked him the frequency of the local redr. e "as
quite reluctant to divulge tie "nilitary secret", but after
some persuasion intimated that it was in the region of 15
megacycles.' After a bit of calculation I discovered that the
antenna resonated on that frequency, end a quick cieck wit
Lechter wires gave a cross-check, on tne antenn: lenot! an e
truth of Ensign Mayeda's infomation. The next few days wer
raiä-free, and wn en finally the sirens blew, I rushed to y
receiver, anå sure enough, on 141 uc I picked un my ls who
I had not heard for a couple of weeks, In a fey minutes, t e
room was packed with Jeps, all jibberin witn excitenent. he
racket they made, sunplemented by tho loud hiss of the receiver,
made it impossible to copy a wori. I got sore and cnased then
all our of the room, including officers. i: act they must
have planed on our high-strung nerves, for there were no
reprisals.
Signals were so thick that it was possible only to et
plane calls ind scattered ortions of target instruction. ut
when all planes were gi ven orderes to return to b ase, the leader
called "1 RELAY BROHIE" (to keer si mals on VIF, relay lancs
were used to handle traffio between task force and targc: area
and gave hin the results of his attaok and su gestions for
future sweeps. I noticed that the plane calls were sliitly
different from previous raids. hat would have been 21 
before, was 21 ABLE BRonc0, and so forth. s soon as their
signal's died down, ws heard a new group in rendezvous over Laguna
de Eay using calls with a BuR prefex. e sathered this was
the second wave, and as th s "all clear" siren had sounded, we
phoned headquartors and told them that a second group was on its
way. H.. sked us how we Inew, and we answered that we ad
heard planes with BAkER prefixes, and assumed that they were the
second wave. H.. however, reminded us that we should work more
and assume less, and asked what the planes were saying.c answered
that they were merely getting rendezvoused, to which I.. replied
"then why the hell do you think they're comiu here?" and hung
up. In fifteen minutes we were under a heavy air attack, and the
siren had not given warning (the radar did not pick them up,
because it was customary of Jap radars to stop as soon as they
had picked up enemy plenes - to avcid being detected and conse-
quently stop up.) This is how badly Jap tactics tank. (ver and
over again, after that instance, we could have warned ... of a
raid and even of turgets, as much as 20 minutes in edvance, but
after that first experlence with their utter stupidity, we did
not even try. That day, five waves of planes came over, each
wave giving ample. warning beforehand.
S E C R E T
-39-

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.97)
S E C R E T
-ater, howeyer, the aps merely kept the city under air-raid
contri all day after the first morniny alerm. e oftel told
then that all was clear, but th ey wouldn't even take our "ail
clear" inforation. his was bad for us, because both of us
had to stay in the house dur ins energencies, end bot wanted
to go over and chat with the gals. In the evenins, as we were
sitting on the balcony, we san a car pull u.  courle of
colonels had come to visit us. It was customary for us to
duck whenever there was brass around the nlace, so we didn't
care to dho our selves uch. ut when we cme into the
operatin room, we sa something that nade us sick. There
was our "engineer", showing off my Viy set, and evidently
taking credit for it. The army officers were  ll sniles when
we walked in, but as soon as they say us they gave us a look
that hadn't been washed in years, and asked cur Japs something
that translated probably meant, "who the hell are these tra ps?"
Our "engineor" answered that we were operators. e stuck around
and listened, as we had learned to understand Japanese sligitly.
It seens thet these colonels were askin the "engineer" for a
dingram of the set and he was stalling. The anny radio techni-
cian with them ∞uld not make head or tail of my set, and I
don't wonder. ires led from it in all directions - to a
comnunications receiver for power, to the recorder for ampli-
fication, and to a throwswdtch and a pair of leads with which
I coul use an indoor or outdoor antenna at will. After the
officers left, our engineer asked me to draw hin a diagram of
the set. Later that evening, as Kazack toyed with the receiver,
he noticed that it was being blocked b: a stron; carrior.
shcrtly after, a voice began speaking. It was a station on
LiYT, working on 98, coo kc! It was a VHF relay of a radio
correspondent boadcasting over the "Voice of reedom". he
signal was so stron, that we heard it all over the dial. It
blocked ouy super-regeneration completely. That was the only
instance of lon distance ViF that I had experienced - a dis-
tance of 340 miles!
In November and December th ere was nothing for us to do
but teke traffic during raids. The Tap operators had learned
how to c opy 27l6 ko traffic and kept our daily reports long.
I told thc Japa that there would probably be a landing
somewhere el se in the islands on Docenber Sth, to commemorate
Pearl Tarbor, but they didn't pay much attertion. ure enough
there was cn o in us radio silence on the 8th, 9th, and 10th,
and then San rancisco announced that Mindo c had been invaded.
This got the Jans quite worried, and they told us that in
the inter sts of our safety, they would fly us out in case the
fireworks came any closer. e said that we wanted to stay
S E C R ET
- 40 -

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.96)
E C R T
"until we sm ti whites of their eyes" (and hoped even lonser),
but order were ordere, und on the night of Des. 23 we were to
taat e vere to leave the next mcining, at five. shortly before
5 is, v en I veceived a remonition of our aenarture, I tola y
irl frieid that whe the lericans came, she was to get in
contact vit: intelligence and tell them about us, and also pass
on the infornation that we woulu try to set up a stavion in
nanghai (i had salvaged a 4475 ke crystel from sohe snashed
racio equipment off a rumman, which the Japs gave us) and that
our cu1 sign would be Doobilsug on 4475 kc. Later, in shanghai,
we alnost fainted wuen we neard D OsLm Ug on 4475 ko.. It seems
trat lark .'ield had taken that call, two monans after we had
reserveu it for our onn use.
e arrived in shenghai on Dec. 29tn 1944, and after a
short r est were put to work in a radio workshop on the 5th
floor of the Naval ittache's Office 27, the Bund. fter working
there a month, and relieving the Japs of a quantity of parts, we
were ordered to start uie smae work we did in  anila A r nma-
nouo vas ut in cnarge of us oy Ikushima, who nad some to okyo,
and a r. Ichiji , ananoto's subordinate was giventhe ot of
nursumaid to us. e installed the station in o0) ayfoong fouse,
nent aoor to Ichijina's apartment. sefore leaving the workshop,
we were told to convert two junk heaps into receivers, and also
given a Vif receiver which we rebuilt to suit our needs. Later,
I showed Peter how this receiver could be turned into a trens-
mitter b changing one resister and putting a micronhone in the
cathode circuit of the detector tube. We reckoned it would
come in handy if we had a chance to talk to nerican planes
raiding hanglhui. We never had a chance to use it because we
were never alone in our station. However, knowing that it radia-
tod a considerably strong signal even in receiving hoop-up, we
played havoc witi the local radars b parking our signai on their
frequency. .e used to play a regular gene with them during air
raids. aitins until their beam was directed away from us, we
would turn our si nal on their frequency. Imnediately, the beam
would be directed toward us, whereupon we would switch off our
carrier. This we used to do for hours on end, and the Japs never
succeeded in locating our phsition.
There was almost nothing to do for some time. Sigmals
from the Thilipnines on 4475 and 2716 kc. were weak and unreada-
ble, and there were no air raids. The Japs pt impatient and in
the middle of February, we were visited b Lieutenants Maruyama,
Tanaka dnd Yamawaki of the Secondary H.. Listening-Post. The
imorance and great self-assurance of these gentlemen was even
worse than anything we had exp erienced in Manila. All they were
interested in was A.T.C. and China ir Bases communication. e
S E C RET
-41-

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
did not like it when they ordered us to listen to these
stations, beoause they worked ceaselessly and the material
sent was erther coded operational data or plain lunguage
reporta on transport-plane movements. However, we did as
ordered, and purposely missed the first lanaings cn iwo jima
(of course, we followed them on our own). s soon as tè Jos
noticed th ese si mals, they told us to copy the,not believ ug
that we understood them perfectly. There were the sane tar et
designation simels, th e same lan ding craft signals, and tme
same patrol-plene si mals. ll, this was ol stuf to us, ut
Greek to the Jans.
Fron then on, we told the Japs th at we would concentrate
on Naval comunication and leave the tiresome hina traffic to
them. They agroed, as China traffic yielded more bulky renorts.
We covered the landings on Okinawa, and a few air raids fro-
kinawa bases on Ghanghai. However, there was nothing half as
spectacular as what we had seen in the Philippines. We held a
transmitter in readiness ror any possible invasion in the
hanghai area, 'but never had a ch ance to use it. Here is an
example of the utter s tupidity of the ff.. boys in hanghai.
in the first pig raid on Shanghai, the call signs of the
PBM standbys were PLAYLATE 18, 19, 20 and JUTBOX 45, 46.
arly the next morning, we were waiting for signs of another
raid, when we heard JUTEBOX 1 and 2 working with AGATI BS2, whicn
was (in our opinion) I. OJI. As soon as the Jap on duty heard
these signals, he dasned to the phone and in excit ed tones
notiried i.. that the raiders had taken off. It took some tie
to make him understand that these planes were not even from
Okinawa. Later we heard PLAY LATEs 18, 19, 20 cal1 BOXER (control
station or an Okinawa air base), saying. that they were orbiting
POINT EBRA (yesterday's rendezvous point for Shanghai-vound
planes) and inquiring as to the whereabouts of J0s0. 45 and 46.
Now this was the th ing we were waiting for, but H.. had already
sounded the alarm from the report the ap had put in previously.
Our reaction to this was "what's the use," and this reaction
prevailed until the end of the war.
Now for a bit of tecnnical data.
Our receiving station in  anila ∞nsisted of the follow-
ing receivers: Two nammarlund super-Pro's, ne iallicrafter
Diversity (cut of alignment. Never repsired because engineer
said it was in perfcct cc ndition), One allicrafter Juper-
pefiant, One Hallicrafter Sky Buddy, and two broadcast receivers.
S E C R E T
-42-

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.95)
S E C R E T
Two recorders were al so on hand, vut we never used .e..
antennas were put un vith no reaore for rees or directie.
In shanghai, we started wit: one battered Ro. 6-tise all
wave set, nd one s 10-tube affair ( rivish made, nd cali-
brated in meters) l so  proadceat set.e al so nad a su el-
egenerative Vdr set with a separate audio an lifier. "hese sets
were later suppleuented by anotner GEc of the same type, md an
old Pilot all-wave set, and still later by an At-77 vhic: we
pinched fron the German mbassy. wnen we got tie -77, we tnrew
away all the junk end used the Ax-77 with the t vo  c's, whien
were quitesensitive, as stanabys. Still leter, in July to 
exact, we received a ViF converter (whicn our engineer had built
of parts which had just arrived from Japan. re left anila lor
Tokyo in Novenber '44 for the purpose of buvins VA parts. 1t
took 8 months for these  arts to finally reao us).
To conolude, I wish to state that the .. Navy did a
good job in keeping secrets. Anything revealed in voice comau-
nication had only momentary value. unly two give-aways are
outstanding. One is the shackle code, whicn I believe can ce
broken after a few hours of traffic. The ot er is the o inous
radio silence that always precedes a landins, and persistent
orders to planes to keep away from groups of shioping, which of
course are amphibious forces ready for lanaing.
I should say that the Japs utterly failed in their radio-
snooping. Had the Gennans been given as mucn infonnation, they
could have done a lot with it, as they are muoh more methodical.
I don't believe that as much plain-language voice comau-
nication was used in Europe as here in Asia.
MinTo Y.M To was in oharge of the Listening Post for
the Japanese Navy.
This Post was establisued in February, 1945, for tae pur-
pose of monitoring radio signals only in the Pacific Ocean
areas. Phe first monito ring that was successfully completed
was that of the landing at Iwojima. At this time, according
to YaiOro, they were able to pick up voice sinals from slip
to base and from lane to ship but nct between ips.
S E C R E T
- 43 -

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.97)
SEC RT
Y0 stated that through monitoring voice messages,
hi office was able to predict the landing at okinowa anpre-
ximately two days in advance. However, at Okinawa, the sa e
situation prevailed in that his office was capable only of
monitorins messages fron base to ship and plane to ship or
base, but hot from ship to shin. "his office was nost suecess-
fui in onitoring bombardment assi n ents hich were miven iro
base to ship everevening.
Y: OT0 said his section had neither equipment nor
operators to monitor C comnunications.
TOlIo NAiBA, the officer in charge of the information
and liaison section, stated that aproximately arch 1945, the
Japanese expected a landing by the Allied Torces and picked as
the most probable landing point Hangchow Bay, immediately Jouth
of Shanghai. It was at t is Bay that the Japanese Forced lan-
ded in 1937 at the tie of the China Incident.
Because of this expeoted attack on Shanghai by Allied
assault foreed N BA stated that the Army which was the most
powerful unit in China took complete charge of ommunications
and defensive positions in and about Shanhai.
NAlBA stated at this time the Navy set up its Listening
Post in order to keep itself informed fully of the couse of the
war. However, the monitoring was very ineffective because of
lack of equipment and trained personnel. Radio equipment at
Shanghai, according to NAiB, was depleted and deteriorated to
a great extent and no replacements were received from Tokyo.
Ns stated that the supply of radio tubes was extremely acute
and because of this, even Radio Tokyo had on occasion been
required to cancel pro grams. Both the Army and Navy were
extremely jealous of communicationand refused to allow Japanese
civilians to become well acquainted with the work. lthough he
was a Japanese citizen, NA A said he was a civilian and the
Navy often was suspicious of him to such an extent that there
were nunerous communication rooms to which he was forbidden to
go although his inferiors who were regular Navy men were not
forbidden to enter these rooms. (In addition they did not have
sufficient military personnel trained in com unications.)
Lt. KTsUHISARUY. advised that he entered the Japa-
nese Navy in 1942 and after attending Navy chool in Tokyo for
six months, he was assigned to Singapore vhere he was employed
as a supply o ficer. Previous to entering the Navy, uy.
SE C RET
-44 -

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.97)
ECRT
statet hao coanleted a musiness school at Tokyo. In July 1944,
f wa transferred to hanghai and shortly thereafter, e
 ttached to the istening ost at the China Jeas leet which
as located at Janan ese arine arracks in longkew.
is duty was to ponitor the voice section of the merican
radio. he was also charged with keepin the avy iniormed of
the status of the Pacific war. This  Uy Aexplained, was
necessary, since ufficient information regardin, the conflict
was not furnished the local office by Tokyo.A Ur Astated
that his equi ment to perform this task was limited to three or
four receivers of the kC. and international ty e nanufactured
by the United tates concerns.
lis assistants were three to four Naval Petty officers
who did not speak nlish very well and accordingly were handi-
capped in their onitoring duties. lis office maintained a 24-
hour sd edule.
UYA said that the most successful monitoring was done
on voice connections from ship to station, from plane to plane,
and fro1 plane to ship. His first successful monitoring operation
was the landins of the United States Forces at Okinawa. lthouh
this was almost a year after the station had been set up,
UY, in great embarressment, explained th at while he was
monitoring merican voice conneotions, he was not iven American
speaking personnel with which to do this monitoring and according-
ly, it was necessary to train his personnel and while training
then, their monitorin activities were extremely unsuccessful and
inefficient.
Lt. ho JI advised that he was attached to the intelli-
Sencc communications service of the China Seas Fleet. Prior to
his entering the Javy in 1942, ADJIl. had had no previous commu-
nications training nor was he given any during his course of
study on the aval Office in Tokyo.
is duti es were to detect and monitor the movements of
ieri can landing Forces.
JI stated that he had the following equipment:
Direction Finder 9.3 type, of Japanese make,
10-15 receivers with a range from 300 kc to
15 mc. of the 9.2 type, Japanese make.
SECRET
- 45.-

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
With these equipments ADJInA stated thet he could minitor both
voice and Cw communications. However, these communications had
to be monitored by ear and transcribed as they came through the
air, since his office was not equipped with recoroing machines.
ADJIA stated that by measuring the veloc ty, strength,
and the call signals of the American Fleet, he was aple, he
believes with some degree of accuracy, to prei:st the location
of the Anerican ships. However, on one occasion was he able
to predict a landing of American Forces.
ADJIMA stated that each day his office sent to Tokyo the
location of Anerican ships as shown by his direct on finder.
Also, Anerican messages in code were sent to Tokyo. No attempt
to break the code was made at Shangha1 since Tokyo was the
clearing house for all coded messages.
b.
HISTORIAN
HYOZO HASEGAWA was Naval H1storian.
He was also connected
with the information and liaison section.
********
(3) The enomy properties control room:
This organization handled the investigation and superv1-
sion of. enemy properties under the control of the Japanese Navy.
The following are its officers and personnel:
Paymaster-Lt. T. KOBAYASHI (0ct., 1942 - Apr11 1943)
Paymaster-Lt. T. SUMA
(Feb., 1942 - June 1943 )
Paymaster-Lt. N. OGUCHI
(Dec., 1942 - July 1945
Paymaster-Lt. R. IWAMA
(Dec., 1941 - 0ct. 1942
Paymaster-Lt. KASAHARA
(Dec., 1941 - 0ct. 1942
Paymaster-Lt. T. IKEDA
(July, 1945 - Aug. 1945
Civilian employee:
K. TERASHIMA
(Nov., 1942 - Aug. 1945 )
In discussing the operation and duties of his office,
Admiral MINATO claimed that at no time was it necessary
for his office to set up an intelligence system or
intelligence network for the following reasons
SECRET
- 46-

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.98)
SL.CT
1) Tokyo was the center of all intelli ence
activities and they were dir cted from rokyo.
2)
The Nevy hau not given his office any funds
with which to.set up an intelligence network.
3)
The Navy was not responsible for operations
on the China continent, with the exception
of Amoy where the Navy had complete jurisdic-
tion and at Hong Kong where the Navy had con-
current jurisdiction with the Army. The
Navy was not responsible for the defense of
Chins. Their main activities were limited
to blockade the China coast and resisting any
ass&ult forces of the Allies.
4)
During most of the Pacific war, both the
Japanese Navy and Army at Shanshai felt itself
secure and did not expect an invasion or any
activity by the Allies in that area. Then
this feeling was dispatched in March 1945, the
Army took over the defense of Shan hai and
accordingly the Navy had no. interest in the
espionage activities of Allied nationals, either
within or in the vicinity of Shanghai.
KIKANS
Informant advised that the actual intelligence work was
carried on for the Japanese Navy by Kikans. In most instances
these Kikans were responsible direotly to the Japanese Naval
Headquarters at Tokyo, Japan, since this was Headquarters for
all intelligence infomation. In many instances, these Kikans
did not report intelligence information to the Shanghai Taval
Headquarters.
In some instances, Kikans were organized for special and
specific purposes, such as the SAkURA Kikan, and when its
mission was completed, the Kikans disolved. In other instances
Kikans were organized by the local Naval Headquarters to com-
plete their mission and to follow directives sent to then from
Tokyo. The most usual mission of the Kikan was to obtain
economic material and data in China.
Among the Kikans which reportedly were organized and
directly ontrolled by the Imperial Japanese Navy were the
following :-
SECRET
-47-

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
1. MAWA
The firn of Mara was established in 1937 soon after the
outbreak of the ino-Japanese conflict, by YUI l0, an old
China hand.
M/WA began operations on a s all seal e because of its
inability to secure substantial financial aid. rior to the
Pacific  ar, its staff of about ten persons negotiated small
purchases for the local Jaranese rmy nd avy. ith the
outbreak o the war, however, m became quite active in the
Shanghai purchasing market.
At the very outset of the war, MuliA was known to possess
no capital to launch into large scale business. ith every
indication of a huge upward tendency in large business dealings,
YUI, the President of ANWA, decided that the only way to obtain
sizeable financial assistance from any of the large banks would
be to enlist the support of the Japanese Navy. After this
decision YUI invited the services of Vice-Admiral TANNAWA TOSHIO,
retired from active service. TANNAWA readily agreed to aid
MANWA. Because of his rank and oonnections, as a contact man
for MANWA with the Jananese Navy, Vice-Admiral TANNAWA proved
invaluable. Heopened the road to a sudden briskness in the
business dealings of ANWA.
MANWA was registered at the Shanghai Japanese Consulate
under the name of TOKUMI KUMIAI, (Amalgamated Organization). Since
it was an Amalgamated Organization, ManWA's huge profits imme-
diately were invested in the organization to expand its business
into diversified fields. MANWA soon became known as the Go YO
Ho NIN, or the specified buyers or merchants of the Imperial
Japanese Navy. The operations of  ANWA seemed outwardly to be
under the complete control of the Japanese Navy. There are,
however, reports, unverified at this time, that this situation
was not necessarily so.
In its position of controlling MANiA, the Imperial Japa-
nese Navy had no difficulti es in placing personnel in the
organization, dictating to the organization, and controlling its
policy. There are reports that MANWA was the leading espionage
organization of the Imperial Japanese Navy in China and South-
east Asia. These reports, unverified at present, are being
investigated.
SECRET
-48-

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Shanghai is not a large manufacturing center, and
cargoes existing here at the time of the war were all imported
from foreign countries. These cargoes the Chiuese put away in
a very clever way and were unaffected by the various proclama-
tions issued by the Japanese Army against such goods. Although
such statements were issued by the Japanese, they lacked ini-
tiative, system, and organization to round up these goods, for
which they were willin to pay fabulous prices.
In its advantageous position of knowing in advance the
exact requirements of the Japanese Navy, and what their imme-
diate future requirements would be, MANiA, in a quiet manner,
would start buying the required goods in the local market. As
the Navy orders came through, ANWA, in a very conspicuous
manner, would make reorders to every seller, broker, and
commission agent.
The issuance of such orders was inmediately known to the
business world. The influential cargo owners would then adopt
a "wait and see" policy to observe the price fluctuation. Once
buying began prices skyrocketed. For instance, prior to the
issuance of orders by the Japanese Navy, an item such as carbon
steal of about 70% and 30% manganese content would be quoted at
CRb 30.00 per pound. When buying began, the price would jump
to anywhere from CRB 120.00 to CRB 150.00 per pound.
By that time, however, ANWA had purchased for the Navy
all of its requirements. This would be delivered to the Navy
at the prevailing market price. By this method MAN!A built up
a huge capital.
The position of MNWA as the GO YO SHO NIN for the Impe-
rial Japanese Navy was well known in the Shanghai business
world. Funds were issued by banks at the suggestion of the
Navy, for banks were glad to render aid to MAvWA knowing that
their investments would be good. The market continued to show
a steady upward trend, and alWA's profits were enormous.
MunWa's capital and assets cannot be accurately deter-
mined because they were invested in the purchase of various
commodities in the local market. A good estimate, however,
would be about one-half of the SHOWA TSUSHO, information regar-
ding the SHOWA TSUSHO is being ∞llected at the present time.
LANWA's cargoes and assets were impounded by the Chinese
authorities upon the cessation of hostilities. The source of
this information is, therefore, unable to give more exact
details.
SECRET
-49-

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Informant stated that the office of  A in Shanghai
was located at 53 Foochow Rcad. This buildin at 53 Foocnow
Road is occupied by the Strategic Services Unit, Unite States
rmy.
Because of the demands made on it by the Imperial Japa-
nese Navy, and with its mountainous funds,   diversified
its operations into many fields.   operuted is own snips,
but this enterprise was shortlived because of wide spread and
systematic Allied submarine cperations in the acific.
A
started transport of cargo on the II oU 2oo0 tons.his
vessel was sunk off Singapore. The T  U, 30o tons, was
sunk between Taiwan and Fukushu. I U  AI, 1600 tons, an
old ship with forty years service, was sunk off Amoy while in
transit fron Indo-China. Unable to nurchase or charter other
ships, this projeot was kept in abeyance. Charterin", however,
was actually being done on a very small scale.
Under the LurA LUBER CO PANY lumber wes purchased from
the interior of China in great quantities. This lumber Company
it is reported, was fully controlled by the Japanese Mavy. Ho
the profits were shared, or the basis on vhich the work was
perfomed, is not known. In nane, however, the company was
controlled by MANWA.
MlWA was reported to own a Receiving and Transmitting
Station, but actually this station did not belong to them. The
Japanese Navy (BU KAil FU) had full control of ti:is station,
and naval personnel only was hired to do the work. ut since
the Navy did not have ample funds to operate this station, they
had apparently obtained assistance from ai to pay the staff
and expenditures.
MANWA is reported to have operated an alcohol distillery
in Pootung. This distillery is saiu to have been the largest
of its kind in the Shanghai area. No further deteils are avai-
lable at this time.
Mu extended its activities to cover China and Southeast
Asia by establishing branch offices.
The following list of places where ArA had branch offi-
ces was furnished by Admiral MINATO:
C HINA:
AMOY
NANKING
CANTON
PNGPU
CLANGSIHLA
PEPING

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
The 'eking and Tientsin branches were oncrated under many
diffioulties beoause this area was under the control of the
Japmese Ary, with hardly a Navy man arounc.inancially they
al so net with obstaoles adnce the head office in hanghai would
not nake nonetary remittances because of the lw exohange rate.
These ofices were also capitalized-as linited companies, w:ich
added to thelr troubles. Ukuoit who had bee. the nanager of the
hoad office in Shaivhai was espeoially appointed to deal witr.
this situaticn i the northern offioes. lothins, however, is
known of his activities.
of tie many branoh ofrices the one whici proved most ao-
tive and profitable was that of Hongkong. Other outposts such
as Saigon, Bangkok, Calebes, and Borneo were very inactive.
2. SAUR YIKAN
In June 1943, Admiral Shushin NAGAv0, Chief of the Naval
General Stafr in Tokyo, Japan, sent to China Commander Tokuji
OKURA as an emissary to investigate possibilities of talking
Peaoe with Generalissimo CiIAnG Kai-Shelt. Lfter arriving in
Shanghai, CKuURi consolidated his mission with Commander OTANI
of the Naval Office at Ihanghai, Information end Liaison Section.
Commander OTANI called to Chungking agents CHENG Dah Tung
and LIN Fu, for a conferance with Commander Or' URA. After nu-
merous meetings, they agreed upon the following points:
1. The Navy should furnish them a wireless installa-
tion for oontaoting Chungking,
2. The Navy should protect their lives and allow them
certain activities,
3. The avy should furnish them with material support.
fter the last conference, Conmander Orn URa establis.ed
his Ofrice on the 13th Floor of the iamilton House at hanghai
and called it the 3AKURA KIKA.. He hired TOMTKAWA, KUROZA..A,
KIRa and liAI, and placed then in his Cffice to colleot infor-
mation fron and aiout Chungking.
CHENG Dah Tung, an agont fron General PEI Hsung Hsi,
establis:ed the hin Iwa rading Company on Jinkee Road, to
provide hinself with cover as a merahent. Thereafter he des-
patched messages to General PEi isun' isi.
LIN Fu went to Peking to contact his superior TS NG Toai,
Chief of the Chinese Young Men's Party.
SECRET.
- 52 -

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
The eking and Tientsin branches were oncrated wnder many
difficulties beoause this area was under the control of the
Japmese Ary, with hardly a Navy man arounc.inancially they
also net with obstaol es adnce the head office in hanghai would
not nake nonetary remittances because of the lw exohange rate.
These ofices were also capitalized-as linited companies, w:ich
added to thelr troubles. Ukuoi: who had bee. the nanager of the
hoad office in Sha:vhai was especially appointed to deal witr.
this situaticn i, the northern offices. Jothins, however, 1s
known of his activities.
Of tie any branoh offioes the one whici proved most ac-
tive and profitable was that of Hongkong. Other outposts such
as Saigon, Bangkok, Celebes, and Borneo were very inactive.
2.BAURA MIKAN
In June 1943, Adniral Shushin NAGAv0, Chief of the Naval
General Staff in Tokyo, Japan, sent to China Commander Tokuji
OKURA as an emissary to investigate possibilities of talking
Peaoe with Generalissimo ChIANG Kai-Shelt. rter arriving in
Shanghai, CKuURi consolidated his mission with Commander OTANI
of the Maval Ofrice at Ihanghai, Information and Liaison Section.
Commandor OTANI called to Chungking agents CHENG Dah Tung
and LIN Fu, for a conference with Commander Or URA. After nu-
merous meetings, they agreed upon the following points:
1. The Navy should furniah them a wireless installa-
tion for oontacting Chungking.
2. The Navy should protect their lives and allow them
certain activities,
3. The ..avy should furnish them with material support.
fter the last conferenoe, Conmander O UR establis.ed
his Ofrice on the 13th Floor of the iamilton House at Shanghai
and called 1t the 3AKURA KIKA'.. He hired TONTKAWA, kUROZA..A,
KIRa and liaI, and placed then in his Cffice to colleot infor-
mation fron and about Chungking.
CHENG Dah Tung, an agont fron General PEI Houng Hsi,
establia ed the hin Iwa Trading Company on Jinkee Road, to
provide hinself wi th cover as a merahent. Thereafter he des-
patched messages to General PEli Hsun" isi.
LIN Fu went to Peking to contact his superior TSNG Tsai,
Chief of the Chinese Young Men's Party.
SECRET.
- 52 -

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
The plan of the Sakura Kikan was to buy off the democra-
tic Parties through the influence of the Chinese Young  en's
Party on the one hand, and on the other hand, to get the
assistance and collaboration of Genorals Pi sung lsi and LEE
Chung Jin, and with. their 1nfluenoe to press Generalissimo
ClI.G Rai-hek to si gn the Peace agreenent fevorable to Janan.
In order to facilitate their work, the Sakura Kikan
planned to bring large amounts of gold bars fron Japan to China
by subnarine.
This plan for Peace with China was reported to WAnG Ching-
Wei who protested to TOJO and SHIGTMITSU in Tokyo. TOJO imae-
diately ordered Admiral Ni No to stop this movament. The
Kikan, failing to ccaplcte its mission, was closed in November
1943.
3. K2ITAI YOKO
This organization was founded by Captain KOBErTO, of the
Japanese Naval Office in shanghai. The purpose was to colleot
information from Chinese ciroles through the mediun of economic
transaotions. The manager of KENTAI YOKO was TOKITARO FURUKAWA.
He dealt mainly in exchange, cargo, in the port of enohow,
China, and through his Chinese agents, he collected information
regarding Chungking Chinese.
4. TTE SHINGISAI KIKAN
Vhich, it is reported, was operated by Naval offioers
under direct control or Navy Headquarters, Tokyo. This organi-
zation is said to have submitted infommation and carried on
instruotions received fron Tokyo without ∞nsulting Shanghai
ivaval Headquarters exoept in minor oases.
5. KODAMA KIKAN
3
In Novmber 1943, :IZUTA .ITSUYO HI, hoad of th• TOKO YOKO,
was found murdered in Broadway Mansions at Shanghai China. No
official investigation into this murder was conducted by the
Japanese Gendarmerie, which has been pointed out as a fact, which
indicates that his murder was ordered fron official ciroles.
KoDu Yodio was ordered to take over the management of the
TuO YOKO. KODA.n promptly changod to th Company of tho KODAMA
Kiksi and hired a large number of ruffians to do intelligonce
work. He bought up military supplies, and was instrumental in
causing inflations. Under KCDAMA, the people suffered untold
hardships.
SECRET
-53

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.94)
SECRET
KODA was arrested in Japan in 1932 and charged with
communistic activities. It is rported he was releused in
1936, upoh intervention or T 'U0 . I, who,  one tie
was spokeshan of the dnhashe, ana is uow res dent or the
Board or Infomation. I save  ,oo. o arromged
for him to visit hina. Upon arrival in hina, ho  eete
acquainted with the Japanese vaval ofeice at hansral.
It is reported that Vice-Adairal Ta , whe Nas Chief
of the Navy ir Corps, sent Fo . to Chir o ue purpose of
collecting strateic paterial for tre Ja es y.  is
believed that  D delivered 3, ooe, oo,. crt of such
material to the Japenese Navy. hir matevi l re ortedly was
collected in China through various means Crin. the L nt war.
KoD.u is reportee to nave made a personel fortune of
3,200,000,000.-
KODAMA is reported to have been a member of the Kenkoku
Kai (Black Dragon Society), Aikoko Kai (Patriotic Society),
Kyo Youth Association, and Kokusci Taishu To (People's Netional
Party).
In addition to the KoDAtA Organization, it is reported
that in 1941, KoDAM. engaged in collecting military material in
North ana South China and established the iko Steel actory for
this purpose. He also reportedly manufactured military ecuip-
ment. KoDavi is reported to have close connections with :ajor-
General KaIGESA, of the UME KIK, who established the temporary
Nanking Government.
To aid in the collection of strategic military equipment
in China, KoDAlA reportedly entrusted consider ble work to the
IWATA brothers.
a
6.PKI
The IWarA Kikan was organized and oerated by the IT.
brothers, YunkIo and SaCiIko. It was their duty to collect
transmitting equipment and machinery for the KoD organiza-
tion.
It has been reported that IAT YUIc was the right-hand
man of KODMA and that after the war TArA reuresented!s
interests in China.
7. AGMCL
AGMOL was established in Shanghai by Andrew and George
OLOSTVow, from which it derives its name. George MOLOSTVOW
attended WASEDA University in Tokyo, and speaks fluent Jananese.
He is reported to be married to a Japanese woman.
S E C R E T
-54-

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.96)
24-
SECRET
AG Ol nave offices in Tientsin, at Peking and Saigon.
The Saigon office reportedly was closed in 1944.
AG OL operated in conjunction wit  A and was orga-
nized for the purpose of collecting materi al in China for
the Japanese Havy. Most of the material collected by AOL
was reported to be jewels, gold, and precious etals of various
kinds, as well as gasoline.
AGNoL also, et the request of the J pane se avy, is
reported to have collected information throu out hina regar-
ding economical and political affairs.  vie of extensive
operations and a limited staff, it has been renorted that MoI
was not a very active collector of intelligence.
8. OTHERS
The following organizations were reported to have been
formed by and operated under the ∞ntrol of the Japanese layy
at Shanghai and Tokyo:
TAI KONAN
KINDAI HOJI
RINTAI YOKO
NIPPO:H YUHI
KOGA KIKAN
ED.I YOKO
TOWA YOKO
ARUNAGA SHODEN
KONAN KONJU
MATSUZAAYA
KOA SHOJI KAISHA
KORYU YOKO
KOKO RONSU
FUKUDAI KONSU
KONA SKYO
MARIGIODEN
TORA YO:O
OI YOKO
RELATIONHIP BETWEEN THE JAPANLSL LAVY UID
SOVIETS AT SHANGHAI, CHI..L.
The primary funotion, from the Japamese point of view
in regard to the Soviets,was to collect information regarding
the intellect of the Soviets and to win their friendship and
their goodwill, as relationship between the Joviets and the
Japanese became of paranount importance. Efforts to complete
this mission were intensified.
In order to obtain the goodwill of the sovints, as well
as to collect as much available information as possible fron
them, the RYUKo YOkO was set-up. This was reportedly a trading
firm. Actually, however, it did no business whatsoever. Its
main purpose was to promote trading and commercial relations
between the Japanese and the U.S.S.R.
SECRET
55-

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.98)
S E C R E T
This firm was amply supplied with many Army and Naval
purchasing offices. Its personnel was recruited from expe-
rienced oviet experts in the Japanese Army and Navy. Among
the personnel were IAYA, ISOD, I, KUROKI and BINA.
RYUKO YOKO attempted to influenoe local Soviet citizens
and business organizations, such as the MOSCOW NORODNY Bank,
Soviet Citizen's Club and the TASS Organization so that favo-
rable reports regarding the Japanese would be transmitted to
Mosoow and the Soviet mbassy at Tokyo.
Information on anything regarding the Soviets was
gathered with alacrity and thoroughness, especially on matters
relating to the position of the U.S.S.R. in the Far East.
Attempts were made to bribe the members of the local
Soviet community who were thought to have "faee" with their
countrymen or who had any connections in Japan, some influence
in Tokyo or Moscow. Soviet citizens usually were allowed every
convenience and facility in their daily life. Japanese firms
presented them with valuable presents, especially commodities,
which were at a premium during the war. one particular form of
bribery was as follows:- the cash shortage in Shanghai was
severe and at one time 30-40% premium was necessary to obtain
cash. During these months, prior to the capitulation of Japan,
Japanese firms supplied Soviet citizens with cash, thus making
them huge presents. The Japanese presented the Soviet citizens
with CRB$lo0,O00,Co0,O00 - in cash. This amount could be sold
on the open market for $130,000,000,000 - thus the officials
gained to the extent of 30.000,000,000 -.
In addition, presents were made to ofricial Soviet orga-
nizations whenever an opportunity presented. IMAYA was reported
to have made many gifts tc soviet ciarities, including the
Soviet Red Cross, contributions to Soviet war damaged areas, etc.
It is reported only a small amount of this sum was passed on for
official purposes.
Upon the occasion of the surrendor of Germany, the Soviets
gave a large party at the Paramount Hotel in Shanghai. The
expenses for this party were paid by the Japanese through IMaYA.
Commander SHIMURA reportedly had the task of developing
friendly relations with the TAsS Agenoy. SHIMURA came to Shang-
hai in February 1944 as a Staff Officer of the China Seas Fleet.
In Tokyo SHIMURA was acquainted with AGREVEEF, Commeroial Attache
of the Soviet Consulate who arranged an introduction for him with
S E C R E T
- 56-

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.97)
S EC R E T
. T. . CLTCH.NoFF, Press Attache of the Soviet Consulate at
hanghai and N. I. iVErzoFF, the Manager of the TA3o Agency
in China whose office was in Shanghai.
The assistants to Commander SHIMURA, Sub-Lt. TSUBoUciI
and Mr. HIDE, succeeded in becoming acquainted with V....V. LIN,
President of the Soviet Club, and KULESH, the Editor of " EW
LIFE".
After many unofficial invitations, and through bribery,
it is reported, the Japanese succeeded in obtaining the coope-
ration of the Soviets in exchanging infomation regarding
politioal development in Europe and troop movements.
Through the assistanoe of the Japanese Mavy, the TASS
Agency in hanghai recei ved many conveniences, among which were
the installation of telephones, wireless, passes in curfew time
and etc. At one time it was reported that the TAss gency and
the Japanese Navy cooperated very closely.
In November 1944, M.F. YAKUiAIN arrived in Shanghai and
through his interferenoe and that of V.V. CHILIKIN, the Editor
of the "RUSSLAN DAILY NE3", the cooperation between th e Japa-
nese Navy and the Soviets declined.
Until the declaration of war by Soviets against Japan,
Commander SHIMURA made every effort to hold his connections and
offered his assistance to obtain the cooperation of the Soviets
in the Shanghai area.
S E C RET
- 57-

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.93)
S E C R E T
APPENDIX
A. Chart Showing Organization of Manwa
38
B. List of employees of Manwa
59
C. Chart Showing Organization of Kodana Kika
67
68
D. Biographioal Data
E. Eugene Hovans
80
-57a -
SECRET

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.98)
A.
The following ohart showing the organization of M
was furnished by Admiral MINATo :-
The Mistry of Navy
Direct
Aocounts &
Ordnance- Supervision
The Banwa Branch
Supplies Bureau
Bureau
orfice in Tokyo
Shipping
of
Remittance
Pur-
Purchasing Order
chased
Route
Goods
The Headquarters
The Japanese China Seas Fleot
The First Navel Ofrioe of
Accounts& Supplies
Purchased
Purchasing
Contract
Boods
Fund
BANWA
(SHANGHAI).
(Banwa's own fund)
Branch Office
Sub-
Contractor
SECRET
-58-

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.93)
SECRET
30
LIST OF MEMBERS O THE ORGANIZATION, MANWA
MAFNGING DIREOTOR
AWA, Toshio
(Upsn srefecture,
110 Yuoh-Yang Road
Telephone 74130
DIR CTOR
YUHI, Matao
(10110)
349 Chahar Road
Telephone 21275
M.NAGER, EXECUTIVE DEPT.
YOKOYAMA, Tohiro (OFAYA A Prefeoturo)
233 T'ai-Yuan Road
ASST. DIRECTOR,
KASUYA, Kensaburo (IBARaGI Pre ecture)
EXECUTIV DEPT.
110 Yuoh-Yang Road
Tolephone 74130
EXECUTIVE DEPT.
GOTA, Koioh1
(HIRCSHIMA Prefeoture)
SHIMAZU, Shizuo (KAGOSHIMA Prefeoture)
n
n
TSURUDA, Yukinori (KAGOSHIMA Prefeoture)
a
KURAMOTO, Masum1 (NAGASAKI Prefooture)
SASAKI, Kazuo
(TOKYO)
SATO, E1j1
(YAMANASHI Prefooture)
n
SAKURAI, Kazuo
(SHIZUOKA Prefecture)
YANG, Po-Shou
(ORMOSA)
7
TAMAKI, Ikuo
(TOKYO)
n
TOYODA, Takao
(KAGAWA Prefosture)
NAKASHIMA. Kojiro (YAMANASHI Prefecture)
n
n
HITAKA, Goiohi
(FUKUOKA Prefeeture)
SAITO, Tadao
(NAGASAXI Prefeoture)
NISHIMOTO, Jiro (YAMAGUCHI Prefecture)
HAGA, Shozaburo (FUKUSHIMA Prefeoture)
11
MAEDA, Daisuke
(NAG SAKI Prefecture)
ARIMURA, Kumazo (KAGOSHIMA Profooture)
SECRET

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.91)
SEORET
EXEC TIVE DEPT.
SHIMODA, Tokudo
(KUMAMOPO Profeeturo)
ASAEDA, Muneo
(SHIMANE Prefeoture)
TAGAMI, Taka
(FUKUOKA Prefecture)
WATANABE, Masafum1 (OITA Prefeeture)
FUKUNAGA, Momee
(KUMAMOTO Prefeeturo)
SATO, Tsunae
(OITA Prefeeture)
TANIGUCHI, Miehike (HYOGO Prefeeture)
SUZUKI, Keaj1
(TOLYO)
ISHII, Misako
(MAGASAKI Prefeeture)
SAKAMOTO, Mokusan
(MAGABAKI Prefeoture)
YAMAMOTO, Eara
(KAGOSHIMA Prefeeture)
KATO, Tanesuke
(IWATE Prefeeture)
KANAYA, Touruke
(OKAYAMA Prefeeture).
MATSUZAKI, Neberu
(NAGASAKI Prefeeture)
ADAOMI, Hiseke
(ISHIKAWA Prefeeture)
MASUDA, Badaj1
(TOCMIGI Prefeeture)
TANAKA, Mincke
(NAGASAKI Prefeeture)
TOKUYAMA, Nesse
(KOREA)
MIBASHI, Hanake
(KANAGAWA Prefeeture)
YASUKANA, MaPike
(SAGA Prefeeture)
TAKAKASNI, Takake
(CHIBA Prefeeture)
MIYJI, Yeahie
(SAGA Prefesture)
OTA, Tmagie
(MIK Prefesture)
AOXI, mike
(HIROBHINA Prefeeture).
TANAKA, Nobami
(Mr0G0 Prefeeture)
KAWANO, Etsake
(GIFU Prefeeture)
LECRET
- 0 -

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.90)
BECRET
EXECUTIVE DEPT.
NAKAO, Nobu
(Gn Prefecture)
HANJO, Tokie
(FUUSHI Preeoture)
KAWAKAMI. HisatatBu (KaGOSHIMA Prefooturo)
HIR.NO, B1ko
(GI Profeeture)
1s0, Tokijiro
(IBnRAGI Profeeture)
YATSUYA, MaKOto
(HIUSDLA Profeeture)
vol mbankment Building
North Soochow Road
Telephone 44795
SKI, Jiro
-(IWATE Prefeeture)
MATSUBARA, Hidebum1 (NAGASAKI Profeeture)
FUWITANI, Tekuo
(TOTTORI Prefeeture)
KAXIUONI, Tekike
(GIFU Prefeeture)
OOA, Mitsuru
(MIYAGI Prefeeture)
TSUOHIYA, ChiyeKe. (HIROSHDMA Prefeeture)
SASAKI, Tashire(IWATE Prefeeture)
Third Floor - A, Ward Building
e2s Sseehuen Road
MONJO, Kiyenori
(YAMAGUCHI Prefeeture)
SHIRAHAMA, Easo
(KAGOSHIMA Prefeeturo)
DOHI, Masutare
(TOTTORI Prefeeture)
TAKANO, Chuj1
(IBARAGI Prefeeture)
AXDMOTO, Shigeru
(TAMAGUCHI Prereeture)
MANKAWA, Junioh1
(BYOGC Prefeeture)
TAKESA, Tekuju
(ISHIKAA Prefeeture)
IWAZAKI, Yeshimieh1 (KAGOSHIMA Prefeoture)
MIZUNO, Juhaku
(TOIYO)
MATSUMOTO, SabUPO (TOKYO)
1
- 61-

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.88)
SECRET
EXEC TIV. DE. T.
SAkAI, Konzo
(B(K..I: )
"
MIT: UD., Takash1
(OK Y A rre ecture,
MIYASHITA, higeto (NA h irefcture)
YAM..Da, Kiyoah1
(KANAGANA Irofeot.)
HARA, Takehiko
(T Prt.)
YAMANCTO, Iaku
(XUNA  TC Frefeoture)
TAGAÑA, Masao
(N.G AI Prereoture)
NISHIZUMI, K01J1
(KUOO Preteoture)
8
MAGATAKI, Antaro
(TCsHIGI Profecture)
ITANI, Akira
(NAKAYAMA refeOture)
OTBURA, Makitaro
(NAU. SAKI Tefeoture)
AGANO, Yoe
(NAGASAnI Prefecture)
MAKAI, Masash1
(HYOGU Prefeoture)
KAWAMATA, Saburo
(IWATE Prefeeture)
OKAZAKI, Shinjire
(KOCHI Prefeoture)
SASAKI, Kikujire
(IWATE Profecture)
MIKAWA, Kikuzo
(FUKUSHIMA Profeoture)
NAKAYAMA, Kotoku
(I..ATE Prefecture)
MATSUSHITA, Shiger (HYOGC Prefeoture)
TAKESHITA, Setko (KAGOSHIMA Profoeture)
IWANAMI, Se1ehu
(NAGANO Prefeeture)
HIRANUMA, Temine
(KOREA)
8
AMANO, Shigee
(AICHI Prefeeture)
TAKKNAKA, Yukio
(OITA Prefeeture)
YAMAGUCHI, Takeyosh1 (NAGASAKI Prefeeture)
OKATA, Kunie
(SAGA Prefeeture)
BBOBBT
- 62-

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.90)
SECRET
MATLAGER, BUINE DEFT.
FUKUOKA, Mimoru
(KHI Prf)
A-l Raaus Apartmonts
192 North Szoehuon Road
Tolephone 02-82261
w
A T. 
A ACHI, Akira
(HYG Prefeoture)
E1.L
DeFT.
233 T'a1-Yuan Road
AT. MNAG R,
HAYAHI, Nobuo
(OKAYAMA Profooture)
BUSINE DEPT.
44 Bunka Terrace
Scott Road
Telophone 41704
BUSINES, PT.
UT. Ul:UMIYa, Takesh1 (FUKUOKA Prerecture)
n
OYA,Tougumo
(KAGOS!IMA Prereoture)
TSUKnGO.SHI, Sahach1 (HYOGO Profoeture)
INAGAKI, Rokubaburo (OKYU)
n
ODA, Wa1oh1
(YOTO)
TERADA, Kikuo
(OSAKA)
UKHARA, Keido
(ThATk Prefeeture)
ARAXI, Fumitake
(TOKYO)
NISHIMUR., Hido1ehi (KANAGAWA Prefeeture)
IWATSUB, Ryoioh1
(FUKUOKA Prefeeture)
KAWAI, Kaoru
(KAGAWA Prefeeture)
w
ABE, Hisajiro
(KANAGAWA Prefeeture)
n
NAMISHIbA, Masamioh1 (KANAGAWA Profeeture)
MASUNAGA, Akinor1
(MAGASAKI Prefeoture)
n
KAKIGA, Haruo
(KAGOSHDMA Prefeeture)
n
MAfSUO, Sadayosh1
(NAGASAKI Prefeeture)
n
ADaCHi, Yoshiaki
(AICHI Prefeoture)
FUKULA, Toshisnige (KUMAMOTU Prefeoture)
UGIH : A, Daisaburo (HIRO. ,HIMA Prefootur•)
SECRET
-63-

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.86)
SECRET
B SINESS DEPT.
SHIMOYAMA, Yoshiheru (GUMMA Prefeoture)
BEsso, Koichi
(MIYAGI Prefeoture)
NOMATA, Akira
(MIYAGI Prefeeture)
KOmINAkA, Miehizo (YAMAGATA Prefeeture)
BINUMA, Yoshim1
(TOCHIGI Prefeeture)
OSHIRO,Moberu
(H10G0 Prefeeture)
HASEJIMO, Kasumasa (MIYAZAKI Prefeeture)
MATSUDA, Nobutada (KAGOSHINA PrefeeSure)
ODA, Merize
(FUKUOKA Prefeeture)
KATO, Masaiohi
(TOIYO)
SERITA, Teree
(KAGOSHIMA Profeeture)
ISMII, Ryeieh1
(NAGABAKI Prefeeture)
MAEDA, Sakae
(NAGASAKI Prefeeture)
GAISO, Neri
(MIYAGI Prefeeture)
SATO, Teisabure
(OITA Prefeeture)
KUMARA, Fusayaki
(NAGARAKI Prefeeture)
YANO, Masuo
(C Prefecture).
NAZAMO, Kiyechige
(YAMANASZI PPOP OG tuPO)
4
ANDO, Mineru
(ORTA Prefeeture)
IMOBE, Katsajire
(XYOTO)
KADAPUKU, Masgal
(KAGOSHINA Profeeture)
TAGNIBANA, Takatemie (HIROSHIMA Prefeeture)
MAKAMURA, YOBeteSA1 (NAGASAKI PrOf eGturé)
KIRATA, Kiyeghi
(NAGASAKY Prefeeture)
SAKAMOTO, Keike
(EMAMOTO Prefeeture)
SATO, Masabaru
(YANAGATA Prefeeture)
- -

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.90)
SECRET
BUSINESS DEPT.
MAKAI, ruj1ko
(OKAYANA Prefeot:)
SAIKI, Konj1
(Sn  Prefeotur•,
7
MINE, Sa1
(Nao. u Ar.I rretecture)
KAIYAMA, Takashi
(KAN.A Prefeoture)
TANAKA, Mieh1
(HYUGC Prefeoture)
FUKUDA, Kaichi
(AICHI Irefeoture)
SAKITA, Chigeno
(NAGA Anl Profeoture)
OTSUKU, Yoshio
(SnITan irereoture)
ARIMATSU, Ak1ko
(YAMAGUCHI irofeoture)
HIROKAWA, Shuiohi
(KnGCIA Profeoture)
ADACHI, Toruko
(ISHIKAWA Prefeoture)
FUJIMORI, Torao
(MIYAGI Profooture)
YAMANAKA, Sadako
(NAGASAKI Prefootur•)
KUNIKAWA, Shigehira (NAGASAKI Prefecture)
TAKI, Kiyoko
(SAGA Prefeoture)
KURADA, Kosaku
(KUMAMOTO Prefecture)
MANAGER, FIMANCE DEPT.
MIURA, Takeshi
(HYOGO Prefeoture)
13 Green Villa Terrace
Shang-To Road
Telephone 02-61481
FIMANCE DEPT.
HASEGAWA, Motoaki
(XYOTC)
MABE, Hiroshi
(FUKUSHDMA Profeeture)
n
WADA, Jumioh1
(TOCHIGI Prefecture)
一
n
NISHIO, Kiyohiko
(NAGASAKI Prefeoture)
MURAKAMI, Chojiro
(KYOTO)
n
MIBASHI, Iohinar1
(CHIB. Prefeoture)
HIRANO, Yasuiohi
(NAG..SAXI Profooture)
SECRET
- 65 -

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET
'INANCE DEPT.
MIYAHARA, Mitsuo
(KUMAMOTO PreTecture)
ONO, Kenjiro
(KnGoShimn Prefecture)
OTSUGU, Hiroak1(SAITAMA Prefecture)
MAGARIBUCHI, K1kuj1 (SAGA Prefeoture)
YAMANAKA, Iwao
(NAGASAKI Prefecture)
MOZORO, Kane
(FUKUCKA Prefocture)
ABE, Kiyoko
(CITA Prefecture)
MANAURA, Hiruko
(SAGA Prefecture)
FUJII, Yorike
(OKAYAMA Prefecture)
WAIZUMI, Yasue
(KOCHI Prefeoture)
BEORET

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
C.
Ji.art showin organization of D.
The Naval Aviation
Direct
KOL.. OFFICE
Headquarters
-Supervision
in Tokyo
(Tokyo)
Purchase
Order
Purohased
Goods
Romittanoe
The Headquarters
The Japanese China
Beas Fleet
Purchase
Contract
The First Naval Office
Purghasing
of
fund
The Kodama Ofrice
Aocounts and Supplies
Purchased Goods
in Shanghai
'ranch offices
SECRET
-67 -

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
D.
BIOGRAPHICAL DATA
PERS N L BACKGROUND OF CUTSTANDING OFFICERS
OF JAPANESE CHINA SEAS FLEET
Vice-Admiral RYOZO FUKUDA
Born Nov. 1, 1890. Entered Naval
Aoademy, 1907. Midshipman in 1910.
Assigned to sea duties for nert two
years. Entered the Naval Gunnery Sohool, 1912. Entered the
Naval Torpedo School, 1913, for six months. Again sea duties for
three years.
Entered the Naval Staff College, 19l6, as Class B student
and stayed there for six months. Entered the Naval Torpedo
School again for six months before assigned to sea duties for two
years.
Entered the Naval Staff Gollege as Class A student, 1919.
Instructor at Naval Submarine Sohool, 192l-22. Sea duties,
1922-25, as staff officer of a combat unit.
Promoted to the rank of Lt. Commander, Dec., 1923. Instructor
at the Naval Staff Gollege, 1925-28. Sea duties as a fleet staff
officer, 1928-33. Promoted to Commander, Dec., 1928, and to
Captain, Nov., 1933. Again instruotor at the Naval Staff College,
1933-35. Made one-year official trip abroad visiting Ameriea and
Europe.
Sea duties, April, 1938 - Nov., 1939. Promoted to Rear
Admiral, Nov., 1939. The Hainan Island Garrison, 1939-40. Member
of the Naval General Staff, Deo., 1940 - April, 194l. Served at
the Amoy liaison office of the Rast Asia Development Board (Koain),
May, 1941 - July, 1942. Promoted to Vice-Admiral, May, 1942.
Member of the Naval General Staff, Aug., 1942 - Sept., 1942. The
22nd Naval Base and the Takao Garrison, Oot., 1942 - May, 1945.
Commander-in-Chief of the China Seas Fieet, May, 1945.
Vice-Admiral NAOMASA SAKONJU Bera June 6, 1890. Entered the
Naval Academy, 1909. Midshipman,
1912. Sea duties until 1914. Pro-
moted to First Sub-Lt., 1913, Sub-Lt., 1915, Lioutenant, 1919,
after three years' sea duties. Sea duties again before promoted
to Lt. Commander, 1925.
After three years' sea duties, promoted to Gommander, Dec.,
1930. Ground duties, Deo., 1930 - March, 1933. Assigned to the.
Japanese Naval Office in Manchukuo for two years.
SECRET

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
Promoted to Captain, Teb., 1935. Co mander or  T
Naval Comwmunieat on Sorps, 1935-36. Captain ef HMs Settan.
1936-38. Staff officer or the China Seas Fleet, 1 s8-40. Chief
of St ff of the Maizuru Naval Station, Oct., 1940 - Sept., 1941.
Nav 1 Attache, the Jananese Enbassy in Banckok, Sent., 1941 -
Se t., 1943. Pronoted to Rear Admiral, Oot., 1 41. co.  mder-
in-Chief of the 16th Conbat Unit, Sept., 1943 - Nov., 1944.
Promoted to Vice- d iral, O t., 1944. Chief of Stuff o" the
China Seas Fleet, Dec., 1 44.
Rear Admiral KANJI OGAWA
Entered the Naval Acade y,  12.
Midshipnan, 1915. After tiree
years' sea duties, otte ded the
gunnery and torpedo classes. Attended the advanced gunnery class,
192l-22. fter sea duties for two years, served as instructor t
the gunnery scnool, Dec., 1924 - Dec., 1925. Pronoted to Lt. Co -
mander, Dec., 1925. Naval Attache, the Japanese F bassy in
Washington, June, 1928 - June, 1930. After two months' sea
duties, placed on the waiting list due to iliness. Inactive for
one year. Steff officer of the Naval General Staff, 193l; and
section chief of the Naval General Staff until Feb., 1 39. Pro-
moted to Commander, 1932, and to Captain, 1936.
Again Naval Attache, the Jananese Tmbassy at Washington,
1939 - Nov., 1940. The Chief of the Third ection of tae Navai
General Staff, 1940-42. Promoted to Rear Adniral, Nov., 1 42.
Assigned to the Cabinet's War Prosecution Institute, Dec., 1:42 -
Jan., 1945. Assistant Chief of Staff o the China Seas Fieet,
Feb., 1945.
Captain YASUZATO TANABE
Born March 15, 1898. Entered te
Naval ngineering cnool, 1916.
Engineering idshipman, 1)19.
gain entered the Naval Engineerin: Sohool afte two years' sea
duties. Three years' regular dutics inc ludins one year and a
half's service at the Kure arine Corps. Entered the Naval Staff
College as an engineerinc student, Dec., 1926 - Dec., 1928. Fleet
staff officer, 1 29-31. The aizuru Naval Port, Nov., 1931-33.
Promoted to Lnineer Lt. Commander, 193l. After one year of sea
duties, served as st ff officer of the Kure Naval 3tation, 1934-36.
Pro oted to ngi eer Commander in 1936.
Instructor at the Naval Engineering School, 1937-39. Sea
duties, Nov., 1939 - July, 1942. Pro oted to Engineer Captain,
Oct., 1941. Inetructor at the Naval Engineerin, College, 1942-43.
Assistant Chief of Staff at the Kure Naval Station, Jan., 1945 -
July, 1945. Chiet of Sunplies, ngineerin: Co ander, Chief of
the Naval Transportotion ecti o the Chins Seas Fleet.
SECRET
- 5-

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Captain MASANORI ODAGIRI
Born Oct. 2, 1904. Entered the
Naval Academy, 1921.idsipman,
1924. Sub-Lt. after one year and
a half on a training ship and submarine. Lieutenant afte, three
years' service on destroyer and oruiser. After one year at the
advanced olass of the Naval Academy, assigned to a battleshi for
one year. Promoted to Lt. Commander, 1934. Entered the Naval
Staff College, Nov., 1934 - Nov., 1936. Served ona cruiser for
one year before assigned to ground duties (the Naval Staff
College, the Bureau of Naval Construction, the Naval General
tafr).
Promoted to Coumander, 1940. Served on an airoraft carrier,
May, 1941 - July, 1942. The Naval Aoademy, July, 1942 - March,
1945. Promoted to Captain, Oot., 1944. ssigned to the Head-
quarters of the China Seas Fleet, Maroh, 1945.
Captain TAKEO KATO
Born May 24,.1902. Entered the Navel
Engineering Sohool, and Engineer
Midshipman, 1924. After three years
on sea, entered again the Naval Engineering School. Seven years
on sea duties. Entered the Naval Engineering College, 1934. Pro-
moted to Engineer Lt. Commander, 1936. After one year on sea,
served as instructor at the Naval Engineering School. Again sea
duties, Doo., 1939 - May, 194l. Staff officer of the Naval Station
June, 1941 - April, 1942. Assigned to the Bureau of Naval Con-
struotion, May, 1942 - August, 1943. Staff officer of the China
Seas Fleet, August, 1944. Promoted to Captain, May, 1945.
Captain TOSHIO KONDO
Born Nov. 8, 1904. Entered the
Naval Aoademy, 1921. Midshipman,
1924. After two years of sea duties,
studied at the Naval Torpedo Sohool, the Naval Gunnery Sahool,
Six years of sea duties, 1927-33. Entered the Naval Communications
School, 1933-34. Again five years on sea. Promoted to Lt. Com-
mander, 1937. Served as instructor at the Naval Communications
School, June, 1939 - April, 1940. Staff officer of a combat unit,
May, 1940 - Sept., 1940. Instructor at the Naval Submarine Sohool,
Oct., 1940 - March, 1942. Fleet staff ofricer, April, 1942 - Nov.,
1943. Promoted to Commander, 1942. Staff officer of the China
Seas Fleet, Nov., 1943. Promoted to Captain, Sept., 1945.
Commander HEIHACHIRO TANIOKA Born Deo. 29, 1905. Entered the
Naval Aoademy, 1923. Midshipman,
1926. After two years' sea duties,
entered the Naval Staff College as junior student, majoring in
Chinese language. Served at the Shanghai Naval Base Command, the
Shanghai Japanese Special Naval Landing Party, the Naval General
SECRET
- 70 -

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.98)
SE CRET
Staff, ept., 1934 - Nov., 1938. Promoted to Lt. Commander,
193. Entered the Haval Staff College, 193-40. Staff offi-
cer or the Amoy Naval ase Co Mand, April 1940 - Oct., 1940.
Adjutant to the Naval Attache, the Janenese  bassy at
Nankin and coscurrently adjut ant to the Chief of the Jap cse
Nav 1 Office at Nanking, Nov., 1940 - Oct., 1941. Served as
invc tigation of icial of the East Asia Affairs Ministry, Nov.,
1941 - Oct., 1944. romoted to Co mander 1943. ajutant to
the Chief of the Japanese Naval Office in Shanghai, and co cur-
rently staff officer of the China Seas Fleet, Nov., 1944.
Connander TADAHI HI URA
Born Feb.9,1906. Entered the
Naval Academy 1924. Midhsipuan
1927. After one year on sea,
studied at gunnery, torpedo and comnunication classes. After
six years on sea duties, entered the Naval Torpedo School, Oct.,
1934 - July 1935. Again sea duties for three years and entered
the Naval Staff College. Promoted to'Lt. - Commander, 1939.
Assigned to the Navy Ministry, Maroh 1941 - Jan., 1945. Promoted
to Counander 1934. Staff officer of the China Soas Fleet, Jan.,
1945.
Commander TAKESHI HIROKI
Born Feb., 16, 1908. Entered the
Naval Academy 1926.idshipman,
1929. After three years on sea,.
trained as a naval aviator, 1929 - 1932. The Sasebo Flying Corps,
1932 - 33. Aftor one year on sea, served as instructor at the
Kasumigaseki Flying Corps, 1935 - 36. Trained as an advanoed
flying student for one year. The Tateyama and Kisarazu Flying
Corps, 1937 - 39. Placed on the waiting 1ist, March 1939 - Sept.,
1939. For next five years, served at the Sasebo and Yatabe
Flying Corps. Promoted Lt, - Commander, 194l. Staff officer,
Sept., 1944 - July 1945. Promoted to Commander Nov., 1944.
Staff officer of the China Seas Fleet, July, 1945.
Commander GNICHIRO KONIHI
Born Nov., 14, 1906. Entered the
Naval Academy, 1924. idship.an
1927. After one year on sea, atten-
ted to the gunnery, torpedo and communioation classes. Another
year on sea duties. Inactive for one year due to illness.
Assigned to the Yokosuga Naval Station, 1930 - 1934. After two
years on sea, served as instructor at the Yokosuga arine Corps.
Sea duties, 1936 - 38. Advanced student at the Gunnery School,
1938. Instructor at the Naval Academy Nov., 1939 - Oct., 1940.
I'ro oteu to Lt. -Co mander 1939. Sea duties Oot., 1940 - Nov.,
1942. Instructor at the Naval Engineering School, Nov., 1942 -
Feb., 1945. Promoted to Co mander 1944. Adjutant, the China
Seas Fleet, Marah 1945.
SECRET
-71 -

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.97)
S E C RET
co umnder TosnLo KieI
Born Jan. 31, 190. Intered the
Naval cademy 1927. idhip an
1930. After one year on sea,
attended to the to rpedo, gunnery and conmunications classes.
eu duties, 1931 - 36. Attended the Naval Staff College, 1936 - 37
Sea and ground duties in China, 1937 - 38. Sea duties, 193-
40. Promoted to Lt. - Commander, 1941. Sea and ground duties
in China, March 1940 - May 1945. Promoted to Comander, 1944.
Staff officer of the China Seas leet, May 1945.
Colander KUTOI ASADA
Born July 15, 1911. Entered the
Naval Aoademy 1929. Midshipman,
1932. After one year on sea,
attended to'the gunhery, torpedo and communications classea.
Three years on sea before assigned tothe Japanese Speoial Na-
val Landing Party in Shanghai, 1937 - 38. Advanced student at
the Naval Gunnery School, 1939. Fleet staff officer 1939 - 44.
Promoted to Lt. - Commander, 1941. Assigned to the Kure Naval
Station and Tateyama Gunnery Sohool, Dec., 1944 - Feb., 1945.
Staff officer of the China Seas Fleet, Fob., 1945. Promoted
to Co mander, Sept., 1945.
Captain TAKESHI SHI LIZUTANI
Born Dec. 21, 1901. Entered the
Naval Academy, and midshipman,
1922. Sea duties 1925 - 28.
Attended the Naval Torpedo Sahool before another five years on
sea. issigned to the wireless station on Chichijima Island,
1934 - 35. Promoted to Lt. - Commandor, 1939. Sea duties and
fleet staff officer, Deo., 1935 - Nov., 1939. Naval adjutant
to the Imperial family, l939 - 40. Sea duties for two years.
Promoted to Commander, 1940. Assigned to the Maozuru comaun1-
cation corps and staff officer of the Maozuru Naval Station,
Aug., 1942 - Dec., 1943. Staff officer of the China Seas
Fleet, Dec., 1943. Promoted to Captain, May 1944.
Rear-Admiral TOKUJI ORI
Born Sept. 24, 1891. Entered the
Naval Aoadomy 1909. Midshipman
19l2. Seven years of sea duties.
Entered the Naval Gunnery Sohool, 1919. Three years on sea
before entered the Naval Stafr College. Promoted to Lt.-Comman-
der, 1925. Three years on sea. Instruotor of the Naval Torpedo
School and concurrently instructor of the Naval Communications
Sahool, 1938 - 32. Promoted to Commander, 1931. Staff offioor
of the Maizuru Naval Port command. 1932 - 34. Fleet staff
officer 1934 - 36. Assigned to the Naval General Staff and
concurrently to the Navy Ministry, 1936 - 37.
SEORET
- 72 -

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Promoted to Cap tain 1936. Four years of sea and ground
duties. Chief of the Personnel Affairs Section of the Maezuru
Naval Port Command. Promoted to Rear-Admiral 1942. Assigned
to theCentral Naval Aoademy of the Chinese Navy, May 1943 -
July 1944. Commander-in-Chief of the Japanese Soecial Naval
Landing Party in Shanghai, August 1944.
Captain SADAE IKEDA
Born Dec., 2, 1902. Entered the
Naval Academy 1920. Midshipman
1923. After two years of sea duties
entered the Naval Torpedo Sohool. After three years of sea
duties, assigned to the Japan ese Naval Lan di ng Party in Hankow,
1928 - Dec., 1928. One year training in navigation 1929 - 30.
Sea duties for next eight years. Promoted to Lt. - Commander
1936. Assigned to the Hydrographio Department in Tokyo for one
year. Sea duties 1939 - 44. Promoted to Commander 1941.
Assigned to the Shanghai pecial Naval Landing Party and the
Shanghai Naval Base Command as staff officer, May 1944. Promo-
ted to Captain May 1945.
Lt.-Commandor ISAMU KOMIYAMA Born May 29, 1917. Entered the
Naval Engineoring School 1934. En-
gineer Midshipman 1938. After two
years on sea, attached to the Yokosuga Naval Station and the
Yokosuga Marine Corps. Entered the Naval Construction Sohool
1943 - 44. Sea duties 1944 - 1945. Promoted to Lt. - Commander
1944. Staff officer and adjutant of the China Seas Fleet,
April 1945.
Rear-Admiral MINORU KATSUNO
Born June 17, 1891. Entered the
Naval Academy 1909. Midshipman 1n
1912. Ass1gned to sea duties for
nort six years. Entered the Naval Gunnery School, 1918. Again
sea duties for 12 years. Promoted to the rank of Lieutenant
Commander, November 1926.
Assignod to the Yokosuga Naval Station, Nov., 1932 - Oct.
1932, and Adjutant to the Naval Aoademy Nov., 1932 - Oot. 1935.
Promoted to Commander Nov., 1932.
Sea duties Nov., 1935 - Oot., 1938. Assigned to the
Kure Marine Corps, Nov., 1938 - Aug., 1944. Promoted to the
rank of Captain in Nov., 1939, and to Rear-Admiral Nov., 1943.
Assigned to the Japanese Naval Special Landing Corps,
(Commander-in-Chief), Aug., 1944.
SECRET
- 73 -

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Captain KOJIRO FUKUSHIMA
Born Mar. 10, 1902. Entered the
Naval Academy 1919. Midshipman
in 1922. Assigned to sea duties
for nert five years. Entered the Naval Gunnery School, 1927.
Again sea duties in 1928. Instructor at the Naval Gunnery
School, 1931 - 1934. Again sea duties in 1934. Promoted to
the rank of Lt. - Commander in 1934.
Assigned to Adjutant at the Bako Naval Base, Nov., 1933
Nove. 1937. Sea duties, Dec., 1937 - April 1938. Assigned to
the Kure Naval Base, April 1938 Oot., 1940. Promoted to
Commander in Nov., 1939. Sea duties, Nov., 1940 - July 1943.
Assigned to the staff of the Shanghai Naval Base Command,
Aug., 1943 - July 1944. Promoted to Captain in May 1944.
Assigned to the Staff of the Japanese Naval Special Landing
Corps in Shanghai, Aug., 1944.
Lt.-Commander YOSHIO KAWADA Born Feb. 28, 1899. Entered the
Naval Aoademy, 1917. Midshipman
in 1920. Assigned to the sea
duties for next two years. Entered to the Naval Gunnery School
1922 and the Naval Torpedo Sohool 1923. Again sea duties ar.,
1923 - July 1927. Assigned tothe Sasebo Naval Base, Aug., 1927.
Placed on the reserve-list, Nov., 1927. Mobilized as
replacement in January 1941. Sea duties, Jan, 1941 - June 1943.
Promoted to the rank of Lt. - Commander, May 1943.
Assigned to the Yokosuga Naval Base, July 1943 - Feb., 1944.
Sea daties, Mar., 1944 - Dec., 1944. Assigned to the Head-
quarters of the Japanese China Seas Fleet, Jan., 1945 - March
1945. Assigned to the Staff of the Japanese Naval Special
Landing Corps in Shanghai, April 1945.
Gaptain UNOSUKE UMEZAKI
Born Jan. 6, 1890. Entered the
Naval Aoademy 1909. Midshipman in
1913. Assigned to sea duties for
next five years. Entered the Naval Gunnery Sohool. 1918. Again
seaaties, Dee., 1919 - Mar., 1937. Promoted to Lt. - Dommander
in Deeember l925. Assigned to the Personnel Affairs Bureau of
the Ministry ef Navy, March 1927 - Dec., 1931. Promoted to thm
Commander, Deo., 193i. Assigned to the staff of the Yokosuga
Naval Base, Dec., 1931 - Dec., 1937.
Promoted to Captain Dec., 1937. Assigned to the Chief of
the Personnel Affairs Section of the Ministry of Navy, Dec.,
1937 - Sept., 1942. Placed on the reserve list in Sept., 1942,
but mobilized as replacement on the same date. Assigned to
Commander of the Japanese Navy Air Force in Shanghai District,
Sept., 1942.
BEGRET
-74-

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.98)
S E C R E T
Commander KENKI NATORI
Born May 2, 1897. Entered Naval
Academy, 1915. Midshipman in 1918.
Assigned to sea duties for next
two years. Entered the Naval Gunnery Sohool in Dec., 1920.
Again assigned to sea duties, Dec., 1921 - Dec., 1924.
Entered the Naval Staff College, 1924. Assigned to sea
duties, Dec., 1925 - Dec., 1932. Promoted to Lt. - Com nander,
1931. Placed on the reserve list in Dec., 1932.
Mobilized as replacement in May, 1938. Assigned to the
Port Affairs Office in Tsingtao, China, May 1938 - May 1939.
Assigned to the Yokosuga Naval Base May 1939 - June, 1941.
Assigned to the instruotor at the Chinese Navy Training Station,
June 1941 - Aug., 1944.
Promoted to Commander in June, 1943. Assigned to Comman-
der of the 2nd. Meteorological Observation Corps, Aug., 1944.
Captain YUKIHIKO IMAMURA
Born Jan. 4, 1925. Entered Naval
Aoademy 1910. Midshipman in 1914.
Assigned to sea duties for next
three years. Entered the Naval Gunnery Sohool, Dec., 1917.
Entered the Naval Torpedo Sohool in May 19l8. Again sea duties
for two years. Entered the Naval Staff College, Dec., 1920.
Sea dutios, Doo. 1921 - June 1942. Promoted to Lt. - Commander
Deo., 1927 and ito Commander, Nov., 1933, and then to Captain
Nov., 1939. Assigned to the Chief of the Navigation Office in
Shanghai June 1942.
Rear-Admiral KKIJO MINATO
Born Aug. 30, 1896. Entered Naval
Academy 1913. Midshipman in Deo.,
1916. Entered the Tokyo School of
Foreign Lenguage, as Chinese Class student, April l923. Promo-
ted to the rank of Lt. - Commander in Nov., 1926. Attached to
the Naval General Staff Offioe, Nov., 1926 - Oct., 1929.
Attended at the London Naval Conference as one of the
suites, of the Japanese Representative, Nov., 1929 - June 1930.
Assigned sea duties, June 1930 - June 1931. Assigned to one of
the adjutants to the Naval General Staff Ofrice, July 1931
Oot., 1933. Sea duties, Nov., 1933 - Oct., 1934.
Promoted to the rank of Commander, Nov., 1934. Assigned
to the Japanese Naval Attache to the Japanese Embassy in China,
Nov., 1934 - Sept., 1937. Sea duties, 0ct., 1937 - May 1938.
Again assigned to the Japanese Naval Attache to the Japanese
Embassy in China, June 1938 - March 1939.
SECRET
-75-

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
romoted to Captain Nov., 1938. Assigned to the Staff
member of the Ministry of Navy, April 1939 - Nov., 1941. Sea
duties as Catain of carrier, Dec., 1941 - Feb., 1943. Comman-
der of the Naval Air Force Stationing at Iwakuni Mar., 1943 -
Oot., 1943. Assigned to the surmaster of the Naval Academy,
Nov., 1943 - 0ct., 1944.
Promoted to Rear - Admiral in May 1944. Assigned to the
Chief of the Naval Liaison Offioe in Shanghai.
Captain SHIJETO KUWABARA
Born Mar. 31, 1896. Entered Naval
Aoademy, 1915. Midahipman in Nov., 1918
Assigned to sea duties for next five
years. Entered the Tokyo School of Foreign Language as Chinese
olass student in April 1923. Sea duties Apr1l, 1925 - Nov., 1929.
Assigned to the staff member of the Naval General Staff Office,
Deo., 1929 - Nov., 1932.
Promoted to the rank of Lt. - Commander in Deo., 1930.
Again assigned to the staff member of the Naval General Staff
Office, Deo., 1932 - May 1935. Assigned to the assistant to
the Japanese Naval Attache to the Japanese Embassy in China,
June 1935 - Nov., 1937. Promoted to Commander, Nov., 1935.
Instruotor at the Naval Staff Colloge, Dee., 1937 - May 1939.
Staff member of the East Asia Board, June 1939 - Oct., 1940.
Assigned to the assistant to the Chief of the Japanese Naval
Liaison Offioe in Shanghai and coneurrently staff of the Japanese
China Seas Fleet, Oct., 1940 - Nov., 1941. Promoted to the
Captain in November 194l. Assigned to the starr member of the
Ministry of Navy, Nov., 1941 - July 1944. Again assigned to the
assistant to the Chief of the Japanese Naval Liaison Office in
Shanghai, July 1944 - Aug., 1945.
Lt.-Commander MASKUMA FUH IWAKI Born Nov. 29, 1912. Entered
the Naval Academy in April 1930.
Midshipman in 1933. Assigned to
sea duties for nert four years. Assigned to the Sasebo Naval Base
Sept., 1937 - Jan., 1938. Again sea duties, Feb., 1938 - Mar.,
1938. Entered the Tokyo Sohool of Foreign Language in pril
1938 as Chinese Class student. Assigned to the Sasebe Naval Base,
April, 1940 - 0ot., 1941. Sea duties, Nov., 1941 - Oet., 1942.
Assigned to the Ministry of Navy, Nov., 1942 - Deo., 1943.
Promoted to t he rank of Lioutenant-Commander Nov., 1943.
Assigned to the staff of the Yangtze River Patrol; Jan., 1944
Feb., l945. Assigned to the assistant to the Chier of the
Japanese Naval Liaison Offtoe in Shanghai in March, 1945.
76-
SEORET

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Paymaster Vice-Admiral BUMPEI
Born Nov. 2, 1893. Assistant-
OMATSUZAWA
Paymaster in Dec., 1916. Sea
duties for next five years.
Instruotor at the Naval Paymasters Sahool, Dec., 1921 - Nov.,
1929. Promoted to t herank of staff-paymaster, i926. Sea duties,
Dec., 1929 - Mar., 1931. Assigned to the staff of the Acoountants
Bureau of Navy Ministry, April 1931 - Sept., 194l. Promoted to
the fleet-paymaster in December, 193l. Promoted to the rank of
paymaster-inspector 1n December 1936. Sea duties, Sept., 1941 -
Oot., 1942.
Promoted to the Paymaster-Rear-Admiral in November, 1942
and to Paymaster Vice-Admiral in November, 1945.
Paymaster Inspeetor YASUO SHIBUYA Entered Naval Paymasters
School 1920. Midahipman in
1923. Sea duties for next
four years. Assigned to the Naval Air Foree in Yokosuga Dec.,
1927 - Maroh 1928. Again sea dut1es, Apr1l 1928 - 1932.
Assigned to the Maizuru Naval Base, Dec., 1932 - Mar., 1935.
Sea duties, April 1935 - Nov., 1935. Entered the Paymasters
Sahool again as Special Course student, Dea., 1935 - Oct., 1936.
Assigned to the Lst Accountant Ofrice of the Navy, Nov., 1936.
Promoted to staff-paymaster in December 1936 and Fleet-Paymaster
Nov., 194l, and then Paymaster-Inspector, May 1945.
Captain SHIGEYUKI MATSUBARA
Entered Naval Engineering
School in 1919. Midshipman
in 1922. Sea duties for next
three years. Instruotor at the Kure Marine Corps, Dec., 1925-
Dec., 1928. Sea duties, Dee., 1928 - Aug., 194l. Promoted to
Engineer Lieut.-Commander in December, 1936. Assigned to the
Naval Plant at Hiroshima, Sept., 194l - Feb., 1943. Sea duties,
Feb. 1943 - Jan., 1945. Assigned to the 1st Naval Supplies
Office, Jan., 1945. Promoted to Captain in May 1945.
Paymaster Inspeotor
Entered Navy Paymasters
HIROSHI KUNITSUKA
School in 192l. Midahipman in
1924. Sea duties for next one
year. Again entered the Naval Paymasters Sehool as Class B.
student in December l925. Again sea duties for next seven years,
l926 - 32. Assigned to instructor to the Kure Marine Corps, Deo.,
1932 - Nov.k 1933. Sea duties, Dec., 1933 - Mar., 1939. Promoted
to the rank of staff paymaster in Dec., 1937. Entered the Naval
Paymasters School as Class A student in April, 1939 - Nov., 1939.
Assigned to the Japanese China Seas Fleet, Dee., 1939 - Oot.
1942.
SECRET

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET
Promoted to Fleet-Paymaster in Nov., 1942. Sea duties
Nov., 1942 - Aug., 1943. Ass1gmed to the lst Naval Suppl1ee
Office in August, 1943. Promoted to Paymaster Inspector 1n
September 1945.
Surgeon Rear-Admiral BHINTARO Born May 3, 1894. Graduated
KANAZAWA
from the Medical Beotiom of the
Tohoku Imperial University in
April l9l6. Sesond assistant surgeon in July 19l6. Entered
Naval Medical Gellege as Class B. student, July 19l6.
Assigmed to the Maval Mospital at Kure, Dec., 19l6 - May 1917.
Sea duties, Jume 1917 - Mar., l918. Inspection trip to Europe
April 1918 - July 1920. Sasebo Naval Nosp1tal, Aug., 1920 -
Mar., 192l. Again sea duties, April 192l - Sept., 192l. Neval
Gunnery Sohoel, Oct., l9zl - Mov., 19z2. Sea duties, Dec., 1922
Mar., 1923. Naval Aoademy April 1923 - Oot., 1923. Kure Naval
July l924. Eatered Naval Medical Gollege as Class À student
Aug., 1924 - Nev., 1925.
Promoted to Surgeon Lieut.-Gommander, Dec., i926. Sea
duties, Dec., l92s - Mov., l930. Promoted to Surgeon Commander
Dec., 1930. Kure Naval Mosp1tal, Dec., 1930 - Nov., 1931.
Reseived doetor's degree in December l9s2. Inspection trip for
Earope, Dee., l9s2 - Oot., l933. Maizuru Naval Mosp1tal, Dec.,
1933- Nove, 1557.
Prometed to the rank ef Surgeor Gaptain in Deo., 1936.
Chief of the Medical Gorps at Port Arthur, Dec., l938 - Oct.
1939. lst Section Chief at the Kure Naval Hospital, Dec., 1939
Oet., 194l. Sea duties, Nov., 194l - Nov., 1942.
Premeted to the Surgeon Rear-Admiral in November, 1942.
Chief of Medical Beetiom of the llth Naval Aireraft Plant, Nov.
1942 - Nov., 1944. Assigned to the Jzpamese China Seas Fleet,
and Someurrently appeinted to the Chief of the lst Naval Hompi-
tal in Shanghal, Mov., 1944.
Technical Captaim KBIIONI
Borm May 2, 1899. Graduated
FUJITA
from the Teehmical Sectiom of the
Tokye Imperial Umiversity, Mar.,
1924. Sraduated from the Gonstruction Section of the Imperial
University in Mareh l927. Appointed the Naval engimeer in April,
1927. Assigmed to the Gonstraction Board of the Mavy Ministry,
April 1927 - Feb., 1933.
LECRET

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.93)
SEC R ET
Assigned to various offices in Kure, Yokosuga, Sasebo
successively, Mar., 1933 - Jan., 1945. Promoted to Techni-
cal Commander, Nov., 1942, and to Teahnical Captain Nov.,
1944. Assigned to the ohief of the lst Construction Ofrice
in Shanghai, Feb., 1945.
S BCRET
-79 -

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.98)
SE C RET
TABLE OF CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION
82
BACKGROUND & PERSONAL HISTORY
82
MANILA MISSION
91
CONCLUSION
98
SECRET

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.93)
CT
LPTRODUOTIO:
m hovans, a he is more popularly kno m,  the
only roreigner directly conmeetod vith the Japanese Mval
office. HoV  Was in charge or the Russian de.k in the
Liaison Room. Aecording to inform tion receivod frou Roar
Admirul ute Imaro and ouher top-rankin Japanes Naval
ofricor , and also from assuciutos in other branchos or ohe
Liaison Room, HoVas Was a minor fi ure. However, iron
cutsiae cources and from newspaper reports appeurin. in
shanghui paper, it wus indicated that hovals wos ohe of the
most important men in Japanese Naval Intelligence. hov.
gainca further notoricty after heuding a mission to munil,
the alleged purpose of which was to penetrate Allica lntelli-
gence organizations and expose the Filipino underground.
Because of many rumors to the effect that HovaNs and his roup
ere responsible for extortion and killings in Manila,
extensive investigation was conducted by this office at the
reguost of ar Crimes Comaission of the China Judge Advocate
Genoral's Office. Results of the investigation failed to show
sufficient evidence of a war crimes violation.
BACKGROUND:
HoVANS' police record disclosed that he was born in
Riga, Latvia, on 19 February, 1900. Accordin, to a French
source, H0Vans first made his appearance in China in 1927 in
the company of General BORODIN, who was the Red Rus ian
Advisor to the Chinose. It is rumored thut subject sola out
BoroDIN to the British, and when this was discovered by the
Soviets, subject was arrested and tortured by pourin hot oil
on his head. As a result, subject's head was severely soarred
and to cover these scars, he usually wears a blaer Chinese-style
skuli cap.
subject later escaped to Shanghai and was contacted by
Britisn Intelligonce. He is reported to have bled the for
large suns of money for long and devious reports on Comaunistic
activities in China. After exhausting the british, subject
Became un informer for the United States Treasury De artment,
here he sold a tip-off to subjeote of a treasury investigation
ior a reported 2, 0oo. After a short pel iod with the Treusury
Dep rtment, he became assoeiated with the Chinese.  re yeais
Iate, he becume mm inrormant for Major IL I s, Uomo, of
the maval Intelligence Office. Reportedly, it vas well-known in
Shmgmai that HoVmo was double-crossing MiLLIa by also
C

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRAT
orking Tor the Japanese. At the same time he was ha king
amphlets and books, purported to have been stolen fro the
Joviet Con:ulate.
As war with Japan became more evident, Jupanens money
same casier for HoVAis. He had made connectione ith the
Shanghai t CnL.G-WEI Government through the Japancse. Then
ie succceded in convincing tho Nankin, Reform Goverment that
one lalvTOrf was a Soviet agent working against the, nd
shoule be liyuidated (dTorF had previously written un
article about HoVans in the nature of an expose). HV
received permission to arrange for the liquidation and
accordingly hired some Chinese to do the job. Largcly through
the efforts of the French Folice, the Chinese were urrested
and implicated HoVaNS. HOVs was tried and convicted 1or
inciting the murder and was sentenced to 15 years in prison.
This wus on 24 November, 1941. On 8 December, 1941, thc
Japanese Naval Landing Farty released HoVaiis from prison, and
he was installed in a suite at the Cathay Hotel and givea an
office ut Japanese Navy Headquarters, 27 The Bund. Accoraing
to a chart rurnished by Admiral KEIJo MIkATo of the Japanese
Naval Resident's offioe, HoValS was employed in the Liaison
Room of the Japanese Naval Orfice on the Russian Dek. His
immediate superior was a Russian-speaking Jupanese named FUkUllikh.
The Liaison koom, at that time, was under the command of
Commander OTaNI and a civilian officer named KICHIo IKUM.
Both were transferred to Jupan in early summer of 1945. (see
Outline of Japanese Naval Resident's Office in Suamary of
Imperial Japanese Navy at Shanghai).
Then Admiral MINATO was questioned concerning HoVaNs
connection with the Japanese Navy, MINaTo replied that subjeot
was known to him by the name of CLIGE.
The following is a report on HOVANS submitted by Admiral
MIHATO:
"JAPANESE NAVAL LIAISON OFFICE IN SHANGHAI
December 12, 1945
"The man known as HoVANS was connected with the
Liaison Section of the Japanese Naval Office in Shanghai
since the time when Commander M. OTANI was Chief of the
Section, (Dec. 1941 - Nov. 1943) and YOSHIZ0 IKUSHIMA
(civilian employee) was member of the Section.
"HOVANS mainly reported on:
"1. The activities and tendency of neutral
nationals in Shanghai; and
SECRET
-83

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.95)
S E C R E T
"2. The opinion and reuction of Shunghai
oitizens in general with regurc to the
progross of the war and its accompanyi
effects.
"He also made comments on the int orn: tionnl
situation through his pervonal ot servation.
"HOVANS was sent to the Philippines upon a re uest
fron the Japanese Naval Office in Manilt. Thcrulore,
the Japanese Naval Orfice in Shanghai hae no knu.lcde
of his activities or work in the ihilippi:s.
"His conneotions with other offices than the
Japanese Naval Office in Shanghai are not clear to us.
In viow of the fuot that he organized and led a theatrical
group in Shanghai, we believe thit he had wide contact.
However, we do not believe that he had an intelligence
net-work. We considered him as an 'information broker'
common in Shanghai.
"As to his wheroabouts, we knew that he wus in
Shanghai up to the time of the Japanese surrender.
"We then notioed a press report saying that
immediately after the Japanese surrender, Hovi went
to Tsingtao where he was arrested a month ago."
With reference to MINaTo's statement concerning HCV.s'
main duties, the following information is submitted:
Shortly after the oapitulation of Japan in Au ust, 1945,
the U.S. Naval Landing Party discovered three letters pur-
portedly Titten to Comnander CTailI and signed "C. . CLIGL".
Unly one letter is dated, that dute being 14 Junuary, 194z.
The other two letters are undated and signed ith the inilials
"C....C." The substanoe of these lettors is es follows:
1st letter, dated 14 January, 1942:
A request to orgenize a Special Judicial Invetiga-
tion Section under IKU.HDA, becuuse the :.F. or
Gendarmerie of thc Japanese Army did not have the
ualifications to carry out foreign espionge. The ..'
businoss is the handling or exposing of Chinese uzents
from Chungking and the ang Ching-ei Goverrment. The
Judiciul Invectigution Section would have two sub- ection
consistin of an spion ge Section und : Subotage suctio..
Lost of the letter is a diutribe ugainst the Genu..rmerie
und their incom etency in hunclin espion. c casc.
S EC RT
--

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
2nd letter, undated:
Wherein he discusses a method to prev lliod
air-raids upon Japan, stating that "rublic opinion
of Brituin and the United States demanc from
Roosevelt and Churchill some victory ......
"No
doubt, American and British circles will try to
effect an air-raid on Japan, no matter how co tly it
may prove, just for, the prestige and for the aciiica-
tion of the population....."
"If you gather all the citizens of the Allies
and transport them to Japan, placing them there under
the protection of various patriotic organizations,
you will have a good insurance against air-raids.
For the prisoners, oould be chosen the most importunt
cities with factories and other industrial enterprises.
All should be settled in various parts of the cities,
in barracks, and diplomats in hotels and former
schools. Certain missionaries with their families
should also be deported from China to Japan, as well
as all men of military age, also with families. You
may rest assured that there will be no air-raids on
those cities where they will be settled under adequate
and striot protection because your spokesman will
broadcast that, on account of the unhealthy climate
in the Philippines and awful sanitary conditions in
China, as well as in view of great excitement and
anti-foreign feelings of the Asiatics, the Japanese
Government had transported the prisoners of war to
Japan where the elimate is excellent and where they
are well protected. Thus, the air-raids on the cities,
having no military importanoe, but possessing factories
and works, would be prevented, for neither Americans
nor Britains would attack suoh cities from the air."
3rd letter., undated:
Contains a disoussion of present conditions in
Shanghai under Japanese occupation and proposals to
restore Shanghai to normalcy. He advocated formation
of a Russian Auxiliary Detachment under Japanese
command, so that food and shelter would be provided
to the large number of watohmen and body-guards now
unemployed.
He suggested ".....there is no need to stand on
ceremonies with the Jews. Control over the Jews should
be strengthened. They should be compelled to revive
the life of Shanghai. They need a good whip and a
clenohed fist. Your union with Germany - however you
may pamper them - is an order for them for underground
SECRET
85-

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.97)
S E C R E T
hostilities, sabotage and discreditin of you."
Concerning Soviet activities in the Internatlonal
Settlement, HoVAlS noted that the Sovict Radio
Station in the Settlement was broadcasting in Russian,
English, German and Chinese, all Allied news and propugandu
in the guise of Tass reports. He suggested that the
Soviet radio be limited to broadcasts in Russian and
1so be bound to broadcast all Domei reports.
In an effort to establish the validity of the above
Letters, Mr. TOSHI0 NANBA, 146 Quinsan Road, B-18, Shun nui,
who headed the General Affairs Desk of the Liaison Room was
questioned. NAlBA, a graduate of University or Southern
California, tentatively identified the signature of "C. E.
CLIGE" as that of subject's, but stated he would not be uble to
swear to it because he had only seen subject's signature on a
few occasions. Certain excerpts of the letters were read to
NAiMBA and he expressed doubt as to subjeot's ability to write
such a well composed letter. NAMBA  id subject's English
was very roor, and suggested the lettors had probably been
ghost-written. NAMBA further said it was not usual for HoVANS
to send communications to Co mander OT NI in English, but
that subject usually gave them to FUkUHARA in Russian and FUKUHAlA
would translate them into Japanese for OTANI.
With regard to subject's main duties, NAMBA said that
LoVANS' chief value lay in the fact that he had many contacts
in the Russian community. He said that he had read some of
subject's reports and thought that they were childish. He also
added that the Japanese Naval Office did not trust HOVANS
completely.
Also, with regard to subject's ability in the Japanese
Naval Office, Admiral MINaTo stated that he doubted if subjeot
ever contributed any worthwhile intelligence information,
because he (MINATo) could not recall any of subject's reports
although they undoubtedly passed through his hands. MINATo
said he could only speak for the period from November, 1944,
at which time he took over command of the Naval Office.
FUkUHnRA was questioned concerning his knowledge of
HoVs' activities and he furnished two statements which are
contained in Appendix D. The substance of these statements
is as follows: In his first statement given on 7 December,
1945, 1UkUHARA hedged and submitted only general information
concerning HoVAnS. He was interrogated again and the trans-
lation of his statement given December 24, 1945, states that
SE C R E T
86

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
HtVuts gathered intelligence chierly on world conditions
fron the radio, newspapers, magazines and conversations with
people familiar with foreign affairs. A schedule of Hovs
daily activities as given by FUkUlhA reveals that Hov.
listened to world wide news broadcasts from Moscow, llonolulu,
San rancisco, and London between 0400 and 0500. Betweon
0600 and o700 he made and received phone calls acquiring
the local intelligence on Shanghai. Fromo8o0 to O900 he
read three or four different Russian newspapers. About 1000
he Went to the office of the Resident Naval Officer where
his duties consisted of writing a report, interviewing
visitors, etc. He had lunch at 1300, always with a guest.
After lunch he usually cook a nan and at 15o0 he had another
appointment. Later in the afternoon he made arrangements
for his theatrical group, visited sick people, obtained free
hospitalization for needy actors, etc. In the evening he dined
with friends and admirers ana usually went to a night club
until late at night. However late he returned home, he
usually began his day at O400.
Regarding HOVAN's character, FUKUHARA states that he
was a highly emotional individual and gave vent to his
emotions easily. He wasn't anxious for material wealth but
desired position and honor in life. He met many people but
quickly tired of them. Therefore, he had many enemies and no
intimate friends.
FUKUHARA said that HOVANS had confidence in the opinions
of Mr. AWALD (FREDERICK WIEHL - German agent in Shanghal)
on problems concerning Germany, England and America, and used
them in his report.
In the course of the investigation concerning FREDERICK
ANTOlN WIrHL, WIEHL made the following statement concerning
HOVANS:
"HOVANS worked from Room 741 of the Cathay
Hotel, and from the fourth floor of the Jardine
Matheson Building which had been the Navy Building
under the Japanese.
"He, himself, did little or no personal outside
work, relying as he did upon informers and employed
workers. Among these were Captain CARNEIRA, PAUL
LOJNIKOFT. KASHIN, ARNHEIM, GERSHOWITZ and a few others,
such as TERNI, etc.
"These people were known in tue Russian and
foreign community as seeking information for the
Japanese. Those who wanted to make money in this
way sold their information to either one of HOVANS'
87-
SECRET

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.98)
S E C R E T
workers, total about 12.
"HOVANS mostly used a system of stealing
information from the various Japanese Gendarmerie
Offices, from the Army and from the Police liead-
quarters. Thus, while GEksHo.ITz was working as
a sergeant in the Detective Bureau of the rolice
Headquarters, he woula sell his information, gathered
around the police files, to HoVAls. The result of
tactic brought a general hatred of HovS from the
Gendarmerie and the police. HoVAlS was branded as
a scoundrel by the police, and, as a result of this,
the police and Gendarmerie spread negative stories
about HOVANs in Shanghai which resulted in HoVA
being hated by most Shanghailanders. In this ay,
HOVANS mishandled his intelligence work.
"In addition to information gathered about anti-
Japanese activities in Shanghai, and about gangs who
were cutting in on Japanese rackets and which HOVN
'smashed' for 'political reasons', HoVAlvS was re-
sponsible for many deaths of foreigners and Chinese
in Shanghai who were arrested on framed up information
gathered by CARNEIRA and LOJNIKOV, etc. and allegedly
executed or imprisoned at the Japanese Bridge House.
HOVANS onoe boasted of 'l8 pieces finished', which
was the way he described the liquidation of 'gangsters'
by the Japanese as the result of his work.
"Incidentally, it must be stated that every two
weeks, HOVANS performed as an actor at the White
Russian Club House on Avenue Foch in a Russian play.
While this has nothing directly to do with his
intelligence work, it was basically an effort on his
part to suppress the antagonism of the public to his
racketeoring by donating the proceeds of the perfor-
mances to Russian charity.
"Outside of Shanghai, he once took a group of
his workers to Singapore and Manila for the purpose
of counter-intelligence against the Americans and
the British there. The plan was to infiltrate his
men into the British-American intelligence vorkers
there, and to pose as British-American intelligence
workers, and to thus ensnare. the foreign intelligence
and turn them over to the Japanese authorities.
"HOVANS used the name of LUGSNE HoVaNS, but this
is not his correct name, but he has been known by
this name since his conviction and imprisonment in
1941 in connection with the murder of LuJuNTOFF, who
SECRET
- 88-

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.96)
C T
vas hetd of the hite Russian migrunt Co itle.
Hov.s, on behalf of the Japanese, hired a
Chinese to kill A HfrolF. He was senteneeu to
lo yeare imprisonment, but has not scrved thia
and i etill under sentence. Durin his riul e
claimed that he was working Tor the Germane, which
turned the German Intelligence against nim. hen
ho cume out of jail, (releused by the Ja ane c),
he useu the name C. . klIlGs, or at least hit cur
was registored in this ntane, une was hireo as
'advisor to the Japanese Navy.'
"After his trial, auring which us avove-
mentioned, HoVls incurred the ennity.of the
German intelligence, I was given the assi nment
of trying to pin something on him so thut rival
Japanese factions would rid us of him - licV.
was at outs with all Japanese except the Havy.
A
a result, I learned the rollowin &bout hi.:
"HoVANs c me from the Ukraine to the Far ast
in l9l7, first to Harbin where he made conne ctions
with the Communists. In about 1927, he beoame
associated with the Hankow Governnet which Was at
that time communistic and was headed by Ch UG-0,
later Mayor of Shanghai and acting rresiuent or
the Nanking Government. HoVANS was a Captain in
the Chinese Communistio Army, as 'Captain rICK'.
He helped the organizers on the political side, who
were constantly harassed by other Chinese.
"BORODIN, the Russian organizer of the Hankow
Communist Government eventually returned to Moscov,
after whioh they ran out of funds and the whole set-u
blew up. HoVANS came to Shanghai in about 193z to
1935. He got in touch with LUCiICH, a White Russian
writer who received a contract from the British
Government to write a book called the 'Red Menace
Over China'. The author was allegedly Captain
LUGENE PICK, or HOVANS, but the photograph which
purports to be that of Captain PIck is actually 
photograph of LUCHICH. Very few people know that
the photograph was not of HoVANs, but HoVAs let
this information out to me when I detected this.
HOVANS olaimed that he used the name Captain FICK
in Hankow. HoVANS managed to sell the Japanese the
idea that he was the author of the book, although
the language of the book is not that of HOVANS. It
was written in English for the North China Daily News,
Shanghai, a British daily newspaper. There vere uotations
in the book from British papers and from the New York
SE C R ET.

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.92)
LCRT
. Luo.mcH and HoVs apy rently had
reviously furnisheu the matorial to these
ablicatiohs. The book wat publirhed in soan pai
tout 193 vo 193b.
"HoV us Wan, duriag the years immedlately following
his, mixed u, in ail sorts or rackets, rostitu-
ion, gambling, ete., and  as in and out of juil
onetantly. In ubout 19s7, he became friendly
um   (N) bH (or F Ch),
 tvian vho wao a gangster mixed up in 'proteeoio'
ckete, etc., unu who i no, under arrest by the
hincce Gendarserie since september for ose cfreuse.
de i very toun - a reul strong-arm man.  
and lHeVae were elosely cs sciated in tne variou
rackets, though eaen worked on his oun.
"RaBIN, in addition to his racket aclivities,
trepped some of the Chinese guerilla generals, many
of whom had to switch to the Japanese to save thoir
lives. The Japanese paid him ell and he had a
G
lot of money. He was the owner of the 'Little
Club'. These incidents tcok place durin: 1957.
HoVaM was not involved in them, but only in
commeroial rackets, but he was linked up with the
Javenose.
"HoV.is told me that he had an assignaent
from Admiral OTANI to infiltrate into the American
Intelligence work at the time the war broke out.
He also told me ho. he had (for the Japanose) put
small time bombs in eg crates on Britisn ships
plyin: alon the coust in order to spoil the re-
Tri joration systems. He said that the sritish kicw
he had been responsible for this and had quite a
rude against him ior it.
"HoVm often voiced to me his wonder at the
Jupunese hirins him. Ho thought it wus only to
keep him out or guerilla vorl. He was not a
Communist, but was selfishly interestcd in muking
noney and could do very vell as a suerilia. HoV
activities consisted or teriorist uctivitics to
keop the forei ners in lime. 1eople knew he worked
for the Japanese and were afruiu to crose him.
HoVass recelved From the Japanese free foou and
Room 74l at Cubhuy notel, gasolinc for his Au tin
or, prosoente, ox enees und a small salury. Ho was
-90-

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
very foolish and didn't ave muoh co now has
nothin, in Shanghai.
"I started working against hin about end or
194 on orders of Dr. klane, trying to pin some-
thin on him to get him into disfavor with the
Jupanecc, so that either the Japanese or the
Germans could take care of him. I wanted to pin
a German killing or something of that sort on him
hich woulu have enabled the Germans to have him
arrested. HOVANS didn't like the Germans as he
had previously (a long time beforé) worked for the
Gorman Intelligence, and they didn't treat him
well rinanoially. HoVaNS orten sent people around
to try and catoh me out at the beginning. When he
got no results from his informers, he came once to
304 Kiangse Road to investigate personally and
bragged on my set-up (which bragging was only 'sour
.grapes').
"HOVANS desoription is: Height 5'7", weight
175 to l80 1bs, age 54, Russ1an appearanoe
Mongolian.cast of countonance, round face, pointed
nose, good teeth with gold fillings, no hair at all,
wears black skull cap, has burn soars on his head
on top to the rear from the time when he was
tortured by the Communists. He looks husky. Ho
sings in Russian opera. He is a heavy vodke drinker,
espeoially when in eny trouble. He is a flashy
dresser; weass a large gold ring with Chinese
characters on his left little finger; gold pocket
wateh with gold chain meross vest; has a spart coat
with pleats; blaok mhoes; flashy, loud silk mooke;
brown auit with inte
very faded; usually weare a light grey hat. Most of
his suits are sportsstyles. He walks with his
shoulders straight, very erectly, with a military
manner. He had a oheap chromium plated cigarette
lighter of the Ronson type, with release on the
right. He usually went armed with a pearl handled
revolver, 38, chrome or niokel plated. He speaks
very broken or pidgin English and has a vory deep
voice, coarse and loud. He also speaks Chinese,
Japanese, Russian and German. He used to have a
pioture or his wife, 6 x 8 inohes, also a picture
or himself as an actor, in a part from the Reneissance
Period, with long hair, eto."
MANILA MISSION:
According to information furnished by Admiral MINATo,
SECBET

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.91)
DECKLT
the Manilu Mission was requesteu by une Japunesu keval i. ict
at Manila. They requested that u nuaber of neutr 1. be ont
to Manila for intelli ence pur oset. since ci.
the
only neutra1 in the Shanthai r iee, ne as iven that1
ment. Ho evor, other sourcer no : ere closely conn cte:ith.
the Manila trip cluim that the trip as conceived by
Iku nI , the Civilian ofricer in the Liuicon toom. 
submitted plane to Co ander OTalI vho ururtea 1i 1 1 n.
and sent them to Tokyo for u p. cval. fte: ticy .
ap roved, Ikis.IM vu: laced in ch rse of the  is. io..
According to momberr or ihe Mission, the folio inI on 1
maue the trio: HoV, ccc CI.c, ,
 F ,  , (.
JOFF), BLAVA TROPOVSKY, T KN, TRIA, a Filipino,
and Japanese named - IkuhD, . OI T.I, T..   A.I,
PETR UTSUNOI.IY., KUBO, S. ICNIJD. A YUSNID...
The Mission left Shanghai early in June, 1944, uhne last
remnants of it returnod 1ate in December, 1944. HoV..s ic
reported o have returned from Manila on ugust 9, 1944.
Concerning the activities of the group while in Manila,
SLaVA TOROlOVSkY submitted a statement, the full text of vhich
is quoted in Appendix E. The substance of that statemoni is
as follows:
He arrived in Manila with K.ZAk, LOJ IKOFF and ICHIJD.
June 12, 1944, and was tuken to the Hongkong & Shanghai Bank
Compound (409 Aviles Street) where IKUsHDM. had his,head-
quarters. This was the residence of Admiral HInaIDE,
Japanose Naval Attache in Manila. The. had a few words with
HIilDE and were then introduced to Comander AoYa,
IKUSHIMA's superior.
TOROPOVSKY and KAZAK were billeted in a small bungalow
away from the other members of the group. A listening post
was set up there under YoSHIDA and they were told to copy
CW traffic from VHM, a station in Port Darwin, Australia,
which was used by the U.S. Navy for sending orders to alí
ships in five letter code.
FAUL LOJNIKOFF soon after arrival met a girl named
ESPANITA DE VIDAL, who seemed to be well aequainted in
Filipino society.' She furnished LoJi IKoFF with typewritten
sheets of information in En lish which he passed on to
IKUSHIMA.
CARNEIRO was usually with LOJNIKOFF.
SECRET
-92-

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.94)
1 becume acquuinted vin Dr.t c
tola ru creVoky he had travelled thiot i u rili
territory in Batan as anc Caal ss Nor tus  vic ol
Luzon.
mhl and Gh v1  workeu to eter mi li i..
the lo ei strata or Manila and acted s  ol- 1 ons' o
HOVAIS.
Tonor oVskY did not know much of hov..' at viti,
other than the fact thut he war blackmailinrcli c
in Manila named  VSky because A VkYe,
had not been interned.
TAkAMI, an American-born and educated Japaiese, wes
answerable only to IKUSHIMa and CommanderY..(V.KY
knew'nothing of his uctivitios.
TOkOPOVSKY said that his contuct with the group wa.
very limited and that he had not heard of any terroristio
acts or killings on the part or the group. He saiu tne only
information he had was from a story whioh appeared in the
Shanghai Russian Daily News sometime in November, 1945,
which tola of the killing of six clergymen, belioved to have
been Spanish Catholic Missionaries, by HoVANs und LoJ. 1KO
during their stay in Manila. (Mr. CHiLIkI, Lditor of the
Daily News was later contacted and said th story had no
foundation in faot, and was written by u number of his
reporters, based on various rumors that they hua herd).
PAUL LOJNIKOFF and PIETRO TERNI were both arrested on
authority of the War Crimes Commission in November, 1945.
When questioned by this office, both repeatedly denied being
sent to Manila for intelligence or terroristic purpo es. both
claimed that they went to Manila to "buy cargo" for the
Japanese Navy Purohasing Offioe. They olaimed that IKUsHI
and HoVANS saw a chance to make money in Manila and as
friends of HoVAns they were invited along to share in the
profit.
Further information concerning the ac ivities of the
group in Manila is contained in the Counter-Intelligence
Corps investigation of BORIS GREGOROVICH MEJOFFalias MORRIS
GERSHKOVITCH. MEJOFF aoCompanied the group to Manila and
when the group was evaouated he was left behind as was
FRITZ ARNHEIM and MORIHIKI TAKAMI. MEJOFF later was Peported
to the Counter-Intelligence Corps by ESPANITA DE VIDAL.
During the course of that investigation MAX ZALEVskY,
Elizalde Paint Co., Tanduay St., Manila, was interviewed and
stated, in substanoe, as follows:
SECRET
93-

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.81)
MACKAT
irtt J in col Cafe e i  u,
Y mun roi erly livtd in Sha i e rtn
unifor ed olicoman in thet ciy.  Jbu
 that ho hud  lotte rrom LVe'sre
J 1 o toid hin th t ih, lin the oth r p
Lamii Lin him, a ere r.iu ot iron sin upo..
lonou   the leuer o theo,
i. roud. oY met th the,  cl i
，11
tytte.
vit
, ttol him they  pure
Jhp
on  occuio,honeu V h
to a. 1l t ni or ee Arrivin there  V
tnat the Japunese navy h a greut deal uguinst 
t tt  could cleur himsulf by Turnishin ior
tlon. oV. was particularly interested in locutin
guerilla ladio station vaid to be operateu by a an ned
Joiso. L Vsky disclaimed any knoledgo of i 
1.ter piuked' up by the Japulese for questioning. he was
allocd to o uftor interrogation.
Cn another occasion, He VS told MALLV kY th in orr
to' t: out of trouble, he vould have to puy him (ov)
t,(o.to resos. AlsVskY paid 2o,0oc.0 and ue  dnt to
pay o. the bulanee. HoVans failed to keop the uppointenu
Tt ihteud ent hJorr to piok u the monty. This oy
VCJOI.
After hoV..  1eft Manilu in August, 1944, L0JI Inc set
hin1f up a head of the roup. Never very populur ith the
rest of the sroup, mJoFi fared oven orse aftor dey , left.
LOJ IKOFF and CAKoEIRO spoke deprocatingly or J M. und
horous the othere appeared prosperous, MeJorr looked rugged
and poor.
At one time, LOJNIkoFF and CalEIRo offered to set
ZhL VSkY up as a purohasing agent for the Japancse Navy.
ZALEVBKY refused.
From time to time, LOJnIkoFF asked ZaLsVeky for imforma-
tion about Amoricens and American property. When ZaLEVoKY
refused to give him the inrormation, LoJ IKoFF threatened
to turm him in to the Japanese. . In this vay LoJWIkOrF collected
about 100,000.00 Posos in bribet from 2alEVkY.
The qudstioning or MORIHIkO (or MoROSI KAI) TKMI by
Counter-Intelligenoe Corps in Manila disclosed the folloving:
SECRET
- 94-

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.92)
SECHLT
In,l,TI h roition 
Ju  ra L. sha hui hich posred  po urr
com c on tn the Juptnese Novy. hereur, other con ander
tre i to obluin shipping space for ex ort..
 I. tot this shippine s. ace. I.l.I u. ti
Ian  to th outhorn torrltorlt to sell on the I.ek
mar.et.
Durin May, 1944, Mr. -IkUsnli., a first-clate momoer of
the nisei-hun, th highest cranch of the Gunzoku (eivillans
atuac: to the nilitary), culied 1 1 into. his oi a. He
I.t I knov ti. t he was acguainted witn his activi ics
i the lack maiket through the Manwa Company ana tire teheu
him ith conscription.
a landI is an mericun citizen and also since ne had
no sto ch for active military duty, he listened to Ikl I..'
pro position that he join IkUsHihia. IkUSHIa promitcu to get
TArcI a cood position in the Navy counterpart of the Gunzoku.
I. MI did not want to identify himself with the military in
any ay, o he countered with the proposul that he would ive
his services to Iku iI. gratis in exchange for Ifs Hl's
protection against conscription. IkusHIMa agreed to his
proposal.
on or about to May, 1944, IxUsliIa told .k I something
o1 the mission that they were to perform. IkusHIi tolu him
that there wts to be a group composed of Japanese, Koreans
u Huropeans which was to be sent to Manila. TakamI was to
be included in this group. He did not elaborate on the work
that was to be done but told Takal.I that he would divulge
its mission in due course. On 28 May, 1944, TAKaMI was sent
ty  lane to Taihoku, Formosa, where he was to act us an
interpreter for these Europeans when they stopped there on
their journey to Manila.
He recalled that MJOFF came to Taihoku with CaRNEIRO
and LOJNIKOFF. HOVANS and IKUSHIMA, with two or three others,
cume later, but took off for Manila first. TAkaMI came to
Manila from Taihoku with MEJOFF, TERNI, LOJNIKOFF and
CARNEIkO. This group arrived in Manila on 11 June, 1944.
TakAmI said that he was shocked at the group of
Luropeans that IKUSHIMA had picked for this mission, whatever
it was. HoVanS, the leader, had been a notorious crook in
Shanghai, and,at one time, had been convicted of murder and
sentenced to 15 years. (When questioned by TAKAMI about this,
IKUSHIMA had stated that HOVANS had done important espionage
work for the Japanese Government, and, therefore, was highly
SECRET
-95-

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.96)
SEERET
respected and trusted by high Japanese ofricials.).,
another member of the group, was lightweight toxim ch ion
of the Orient ana had been mixed up in the "uy  
racket" in Shanghai. LoJNIkuiF had also been involved 
the theft of diamonds in Shanghai. Tnol I stated t
other men, ineluding MsJory, had been unknowm to hi c ore
comin? here.
On or about 15 Juno, 1944, IKUsHIima called  me 1
of the croup which was held at the resiaence or the  ruent
of the Hongkong shanghai bank in aviles treet nearlucman
Palace. At this meeting, IkUonIla stated, meucr ly,u
mission of this group in Manila. He tola the rou, Luci ding
MaJorr, that of all the territories conquered by the Jap me e,
the Philippines had taken the least kindly to the Co-r perity
Sphere and was the most recalcitrant. He stated tht the
Army and Navy were doing what they thought test to relieve
this situation, but it still persisted and was coin from bad
to worse. Therefore, it was the mission of this roup of
Europeans and Orientals to investigate and study this condition
from every angle to attempt to find the answer to this
situation and to bring the Thilippines into the line. Thi.
group was to analyze the Filipino way of life, to study the
Filipinos' ideology, and to rina the answer to this most
pressing problem.
In addition, they were to study the other nutiommls in
the Ihilippines to learn what their sympathies were, to iind
out how the Japanese had failed to win them over to thcir side.
Turther, they were to investigate the Japanese Army and Navy,
and observe the methods that they were using to alleviate
this situation, and to make recommendations as to the improve-
ment of these methods. Japanese controlled utilities, such
as Meralco, were to be investigated to learn if corruption
existed and to root out the causes if such a condition
existed. IkUsHIMA stressed the point that each man hed been
carefully chosen because of his past expelience una cuch man
was to do a specific job.
TaKliI stated that it was a grandiose scheme and a very
noble one in purpose, but it was evident to him that IkushIm
had been deceived by Hovins, and certainly the mon that HoV
had selected for IkushIln were in no way qualified to carry
out such a mission. In TAkI's opinion, they were as rine
 group of opportunists, blackmailers and swindlers as could
be found in the Far Last.
It was TkulI's job to get the overull picturc. He was
to observe and in that. way acquaint himself ith the ork to
- 96 -
SECRET

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.97)
S E C R E T
be done, so that, if necessury, he could take over the leader-
ship or the group. He also acted as inter.reter uhu cont
man between HoVAns and InUoHIi for Lbout two months, t
which time HoVaNs returned to Shanghai. In ugust, is,
TekkI took over the leadership of the group workin uirectly
under Ikushima.
Takami went on to say that almost from the beginning
the thing was a faroe. IkUSHIMa was jealous of his position
and appeared to be reluctant about giving out any inforn tion.
lest someone of the group learned too much. he would is:ue
silly orders. For instance, he would detail a man o rind
out the names of the members of a certain foreign clumter of
commerce when the information was open to everybody. Le
would detail another man to find out which puppet overment
officials had what friends among the foreign colony. he
woula ask for voluminous reports and a great deal of el:ort
would be spent gathering information that could have been
gotten out of a business directory or teleplhone book. It
appeared to TaKAMI that IKUSHIMA was more interested in cetting
a lot of nonsensical reports that might impress his superiors
than he was in solving any problems or promoting any better
relations between the Filipinos and Japanese which he had
announced as his intention originally.
IKUSHIMA set up CARNEIRO and LOJNIKOFF in the "buy and
sell" business so that they could observe this racket from
the ninside". This did not work out because the Filipino
"buy and sell" men distrusted these foreigners and ould have
nothing to do with them. As ChuNEIRo and LOJNIKOrF were inter-
ested only in the money that they could make out of this
business, they were not interested in observing the Filipino
members of the "profession" and made no effort to promote any
better understanding. In fact, they did more harm than good
because they swindled the Filipinos.
About the end of September, 1944, TAKAMI had a long telk
with IkUsHIMA in which he tried to point out the fallacy of
attempting to rectify the Philippine situation by usin these
men.IKUSHIMA, who had by now become quite disillusioned,
agreed with TAkAMI and the group just fell apart. Little or
no attempt was made after September to acoomplish anything.
The members of the group were left on their own to work out
their own salvation.
Originally, the men had been paid 3,O00 Pesos per month
which was ample. After a couple of months, this became too
little on whioh to live and the true character of these men
came to the front. They became involved in all sorts of
schemes to make money and they all had pretty bad reputations
around town. IKUSHIMA, in order to save face, called for an
accounting of their activities from time to time, but he had
lost control over them.
-97 -
SEC RET

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.98)
S E C R E T
CONCLUSIOI.:
Although allegations had been made that HoVans and his
group were responsible for the deaths and torturing of
Anerican and Filipino nationals, investigation has not shown
that to be the case. Undoubtediy, they participated in some
intelligence and espionage investigations of a minor nature
in an attempt to ferret out allied collaborators. It appears
that the real mission of the trip to Manila was a combination
of two things: (1) An investigation of the sympathies of
the Filipinos and reasons for the Japanese failure to win
them over to the Co-Prosperity Sphere; and (2) A trip to
Manila offered the HoVANS group a good opportunity to extend
their black market and swindling operations. HoVans and his
group would never have consented to make the trip on reason
number one alone and the Japanese Navy would hever have
permitted the trip based only on reason number two.
It seems apparent that the group accomplished little of
an intelligence value for the Japanese, and when it became
obvious that the Philippines would be invaded by American
forces the group disintegrated into selfish individuals each
attempting to make as much money as possible.
Inasmuch as the China Theater Judge Advocate General's
office has indicated that there is not sufficient evidence
of a War Crimes violation against American citizens by
HoVANS or any member of his group, intensive investigation
of the case has ceased. However, informants of this office
are still attempting to locate HoVANS in order that he may
be questioned concerning intelligence activities of the
Japanese Navy.
S LC R ET
98-

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
TABLL OF CONTENTS
tary Intelligence
Introduction
Higher Echelon
China Expeditionary Forces
1. Headquarters and Staff Officers
2. North China
a. Organization
b. Subordinate Agencies
c. Outline of Intelligence Collecting Machinery
d. Training and Value of Information Obtained
3. Central China
a. Organisation
b. Methods of Operation
c. Training
4. South China
a. Organisation and Systematic Arrangements of Intelligence
b. Methods of Operation
c. Reporting
d. Sectional Intelligence Operational Activity
e. General
f. Special Intelligence Units
g. Foci of Intelligence Activities
5. Special Service Organizations (Kikans)
a. Nomenclature
b. Origins
c. Functions
d. Changes
e. Employees of the SSD
f. Relations between SSD and Axis Representatives
g. SSD Urganizations
1. Ume Kikan
2. Oba Kikan
3. Matsu Kikan
SECHET

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.78)
SECLT
4. Puji Kikan
5. Sakura Kikan
6. Sakada Kikan
7.
Misui Organisation
Asiatic Prosperity Organisation
Kagami Organisation
F6
Yeshine Organisatien
Kuman Pashobe Organisation
Orgentsation and Command
Mothode of Operatian
L. duriadistion
2. Trail of Offenders
3.
D. etng As
MBT I
 II
Pelpiag Iatematien Orgn (or shigekasa Orgaa)
HaIT  Pedpiae Spesial Intelligeaee Cere
ÉHBIT 
     L, T
SEGRET

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.97)
S AC..T
L.
INTRODUCTION
The Military Intelligence Service was the most important
branch  the Japanese China xpeditionary Forces. Its Leaders, most of
whom were rabid r icals, influenced and in most cases controlled the
tactical planning staffs of Head uarters and the Armies under its command.
The conquest of China, the control of it: people and
axploitation of its wealth was both directl and indir ctly supervised
by intelligence.
The functions of this vast organization were as extensive
and elaborate as ary in the world, the main sections iucluded the following:
field or combat intelligence within Armie:, counter-espionage, espionage,
sabotage and fifth column, policing and peace preservation, propaganda and
economic control through government monopolies. The responsibility for the
performance of most of these functions did not lie strictly with the Chief
of Intelligence at Head uarters, China Expeditionary Forces, but was for the
most part the responsibility of the army commanders anc his intelligence staff;
the commanders, in turn, were not obligated to report every detail concerning
intelligence activity to Headquarters. It was in the interest of the Army of
a certain area to operate its own organizations. to successfully execut• its
duties of either combat or occupation.
Besides organizations of the Armies, oter intelligence
units, better known as Kikans or Special Service Organizations, were
created by higher Headquarters for the performance of special missions.
These independent Kikans operated for and reported only to Head uarters.
The Military Police (Kempei), in many respects independent
of Head uarters, had many intelligence duties to perform, the most important
of which was counterespionage.
Within the Army alone there did not exist a properly coordinated
intelligence system, one with a proper flow of intelligence to the supreme
authorities, the Imperial Headquarters, Tokyo. The system was for the most
part conducted as a service to the area in which it operated and in this
respect it was extremely thorough. Such. thoroughness was exemplified by the
constant repetition and over-lapping of duties by different organizations with
the same Army.
SECRET

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.98)
-SBCRT
B. Higher chelon
The Imperial General Heauquarters was the body res ons ple for strategy
and the prosecution of the war, and controlied both branches of the
armed forces. It was made up of senior army and Navy officers, with re-
presentatives of the Foreign Office for purposes of liaison and advice.
The relation of Imperial General headquarters to intelligence work paral-
leled its relation to the prosecution of the war in general, Through its
Third Bureau, it directed and coordinated the intelligence activities of
all subsidiary organizations. The function of coordination was performed
by an Inter-service Supervisory Control Board within the Third Bureau.
The General Staff was responsible for the conducting of military opera-
tions and the collection of intelligence. The latter function came under
the Jirection of the Second Department (DAI NIKA, JUHO) of the Gene ral
tafi. This department was in turn divided into a series of numbered
sections, each with particular functions or with direction towara a parti-
cular area. Subdivision of which are not known in detail, however it has
been reported that the divisions are as follows: Europe and US Division,
German and soviet Division and Propaganda Division. All intelligence re-
ceived from army units in the field was routed to the second Department,
which was principally the main coordinator of Army intelligence.
The Ministry of War, although a body on the same level of authority as the
General Staff, was responsible for military administration and played no
part in c∞mmand functions or intelligence. In actuallity the Kempei Tai,
(Gendarmerie or Military Police) was responsible to the War Ministry, but
intelligence affairs of the Kempei were channeled the Commanding General
of the area in which it operated, for transmittal to the General Staff.
C. China xpeditionary Forces (CEF)
The China Expeditionary Forces functioned under the Imperial Headquarters
on the same rank as the Southern Forces (Nambosogun) and the Manchurian
forces (Kwangtung Army - Kantogun). The intelligence section (Dai Nika)
of Hq. CF was charged with the strategic collection and coordination of
intelligence as received from the North, Central and South China Commanders
to be used by the commanding general for war plans and dissemination to the
General Staff and Imperial Headquarters.
SECILET

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.95)
SDn
1. icad uarters and staff Ufficers
The -fricer in charge of the Dai Ni Ka was the most
important wan in the r and although accordin to the -
quarters organization the Dal Ichi ka (First Section) was 
section responsible fo planning and executio. o. the ar, the
Intelligence Saction in China controlled tnis functior. Ihi:
circumstance existed since most of the Staif fficers of the
o... were the radical clement who had been expelled from Japan
to the fightin front by Premier Tojo because oi their political
intrigue and dilitary purges. These rauicals controlled with
tremendous power the direction and execution of wa Tare i.
China, regardless of the policies or directives of the Commanaine
General, who was most frequently a Tojo appointeu officer. This
power went to the extent of deiiance toward oruers issued by the
General staff and often deliberate independent action on the part
of the licadquarters CF.
Prominent radicals who held intelligence posts in the
CEF were It. General WACHI, Lt. General ISUJI, Lajor General
KAWAMUTO, Colonel OKATA and Colonel OGAWA, all of whom were
opponants to Hiddeki Tojo's government and policies.
WACHI served as right-hand man to General AKI and
with the rank of Colonel was Chief of the Dai Ni Ka in 1938 -
1939 and had as his assistant Colonel TsUJI. In 1939 Acl.1,
after promotion to Major General, and TsUJl were removed to
the front at hankow. At the end of the war Lt. General nI
was Assistant Chief of taff of Nambosogun (Southern Forces)
TSUJI, after serving in Hankow, returned in 1943 to
Nanking as Officer in Charge of the Dai Ni Ka, however, Later
in the same year was dispatched to the South Paciric. Successors,
such as Kol, UTA and A.A carried on the influence of the
Second Departaent.
The policy which WAcliI and T uJl were endeavoring to
enforce was complete military domination of China and the
dividing of China into two states, the North China Provisional
Government and Taido Puppet Regime. They strongly opposed the
formation of the Hong Ching Wei Puppet Government.
As a result of the insubordirnate activity by these
individuals, Tojo sent huKe and SAk. TA in 1939 as supervisors
to the lheadjuarters, C.F, but they were gradually inilucnced by
the radicale and became involved in exploitation and fo tune
seeking rackets.
SCRT

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.98)
By 1943 Tojo had managed to eliminate most of the
radical Staff officers from C headquarters, usually by
sending them if to the front, and there was a rapid cecline
or influence on the part of the Second Department. Infcrior
and inexperienced graduates of the Kakano Special Military
vfficers school were placed in staff positions.
The bai Ni ka devoted its attention equally toward
Chungking and Comaunist affairs until the outbreak of the war
against the United States and Sngland, at which time attaapts
were made to compromise with the Communist forces, especially
the New Fourth Army, and some success resulted, since active
warfare subsided, trade developed between the two areas anc
prominent Communist personalities were permitted to travel within
occupied areas. As a result the Second Department cou devote its
entire attention to the war against the llies. Durin, th closint
months of the war and shortly after the surrender, the taif of
headquarters CuF supported the Communist Arnies with s:pplirs and
oquipment in deliberate violation of the surrender terris.
The Dai Ni Ka was responsible for the-forming and
upervising of Special Service Organizations, developed for
pecial missions in combat areas for penetration purposes or
for economic or counter espionage activities in occupied
cities. These missions were most frequently the inspiration
of the radical militaristic Staff officers at Head uarters.

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.98)
D E C R L T
Ti. ChiNn
Organization':
The 2nd Section of the Headquarters, North China
X editionary Force was merely an office through hich
intei igence flowed, in irregular spurts, toward Nanking
headju rters. It played only a small role in supervising,
directing or instructing its rather loosely connected subordinate
organizations. The scope of investigation conducted by the
2nd section included collection of information on Chungking,
merican, Soviet and Chinese Communist forces; the first two
only by means of radio "listening posts"; the third by the
same means, through liaison with German, Italian und French
agencies, and by supervision of hite Russian communities; and
the fourth, Communist forces, by means of agents and through
the flow of combat intelligence from fighting units. s
would be natural in the North China Area, the Chinese Communist
forces were the greatert menace to the Japanese, and as a
result most of the agencies directed their efforts toward
collecting information about them.
The subordinate agencies were as follows:
Third Independent Guard Unit
The Third Independent Guard Unit was a part of a Group
Army garrisoned in the Peiping rea whose intelligence section
reported to 2nd Section, North China Army Headquarters, upon
information concerning Communist elements as obtained from the
Hsin Min Hui, Cooperatives, and other native organs cooperating
with the Japanese. It proved difficult to obtain accurate
information due to guerrilla type warfare conducted by the
Communists. (For further details re duties, organizational
structure, training, cases of success and failure, see
ppendix, ExhibitI.)
Peiping Information Organ (Skigekawa Kikan)
The Peiping Information Organ (Skigekawa Kikan), receiving
its name from its commanding officer, was charged with
collecting information on both Chungking and Communist forces,
utilized both soldiers and civilians in its offices and Chinese
agents. (For details re make-up, training, dispatching of
agents, expenses, activities, etc., see ppendix, Exhibit  .)
Peiping Special Intelligence Corps
Feiping pecial Intelligence Corps was a "listening post"
collecting information from foreign broadcasts along political
lines. (Appendix pg.)
SECRET

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.99)
SEC RE I
Hidaka Organ
Hidaka Organ was in complete charge of collecting informa-
tion on and from the foreign national groups and organizations
in Peiping and Tientsin, mainly by liaison activity. This
organization overlaps the functions of both the bove-mentioned
organs since activities in Chungking and Yenan were lso in
its scope, and this kind of information was also collected by
radio interception. (.ppendix, Ehibits IVsV).
Other agencies devoting their efforts to intelligence in
the Peiping-Tientsin area are the Kempei-tai, the Intelligence
and Investigation Corps of the mbassadorial Office, North China
Telephone & Telegraph Co., North China Communications Co.,
North China Development Co. However, these are covered in
other parts of this summary.
It is apparent from reports received concerning the North
China area that t.is part of the country, furthest removed
from strategic fighting fronts, was simply in a state of
occupation and there was little need to stress intelligence
activities other than to prevent subversive uprisings and to
suppress the guerrilla menace on the part of Communist bands.
Therefore, the various Japanesc Armies in this area dealt
with intelligence affairs in the manner that the commanding
officer wished to conduct them. The evolution of intelligence
activity in the port of Tsingtao, Shantung Peninsula, is a
good example of how the highly organized system, on the part
of both the Nawy and army, since 1938, changed to meet the
prevailing situation.
In 1938, the 5th Brigade of 43rd Japanese Army Intelligence
Department, known as Tokumu Kikan, swept into the city and
"oocupied", but in time most activity was conducted against
Communists through combat intelligence teams who collected
information concerning enemy disposition, peace and order in
occupied areas, climatic c∞nditions, and topography and terrain;
their sourees were through agents, voluntary informers among
inhabitants, Imperial Collaboration Army, Peace Preservation
Units, and the Puppet Armies.
Economic, political and counter-intelligence functions,
although conducted by the Army, Navy and Gendarmerie agencies,
were mainly the duty of civilian organizations as the Koain, under
the Great East Asia Ministry.
The general method of collecting intelligence from agents,
both Chinese and Japanese, was by extortion or subjection
means, such as granting privileges, contracts, etc. in return
for information. There was little security or concealing of
identity of agents; training was at a minimum; and pay was
SECRET

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
negligible. ll of these factore axisted because North China,
particularly on the Shantung Peninsula, was actually too far
from the war in China and the Pacific to be of tactical
importance. This area was simply heldaand had only a need
for occupation forces to maintain public peuce and sup ress
akirmishes on the part of guerrilla "bandits" and small
Communist forces. (For details, see Appendix VT.)
In order to explain in further detail the methods of
operation, the training of personnel, and to give an estima-
tion of the value of information obtained, a general statement
of The Rehabilitation and Liaison Department of the Japanese
Officers and Soldiers, entitled "Outline of Intelligence
Collecting Machinery of Japanese Forces", 2 December, 1945,
follows:
OUTLINE OF INTLLIGENCE COLLECTING MACHINY OF JAPANESE FORCES
Since the Manchurian Incident, a bad habit of neglecting
the intelligence service was created among the Japanese forces
in North China as they had always fought against weaker enemy
forces. The Japanese forces always were confident of winning
over the enemy. The Chinese forces were weaker in quality and
quipment. Information obtained regarding the Chinese forces
was not the deciding factor for the victory of the Japanese
forces. It was useful only for the Japanese forces to keep
the Japanese casualties to a minumum. Under such circumstances,
an evil habit of neglecting the value of the intelligence
service gradually grew.
It has to be admitted under the circumstances that almost
all of those members who were engaged in the intelligence
service were not of first ranking men in their line; that
enthusiasm of the commander in leading the service was not
sufficient; and that machinery for collecting intelligence
was also not sufficient.
Recently, however, importance of intelligence service
was strongly urged in some quarters in favorably leading
campaigns against Chinese Communist forces. But this advocacy,
after all, failed to attract general attention. Here may be
traced one of the causes which lead Japanese forces gradually
to an unfavorable war situation.
Along with such general situation, the information
collecting machinery of the Japanese forces in North China was
also very poor, it has to be admitted.
In North China information was collected chiefly through
interception of enemy radio communications and from secret agents
of Chinese nationality. But those who had facilities for
intercepting enemy radio communications were confined to Army
Headquarters or much higher army unit headquarters. Further-
more, the capanity of the facilities was extremely limited.
SECRET

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.99)
SECV
Of the Chinese secret agents employeu, those who apparently
seemed excellent did not roally cooperate with the Japanese
forces and the rest were generally of low mentality and most
were so-called double ageno far from sharing the same fate
with the Japanese.
Most of them, taking advantage of their positions with
the Jupanese forces, indulged in lootings or other unlawful
conduct among the Chinese populace with the result that the
Chinese public gradually oame to entertain bad feeling against
the Japanese forces and efforts were made to collect informa-
tion voluntariiy brought from the local inhabitunts by
rendering aid to them and winning their popularity and success
was obtained to some extent.
Those which supplemented the insufficiency caused by the
afore-mentioned poor radio interception facilities and inferior
Chinese secret agents were the enemy documents obtained by our
garrison units during their small eng-gements, examination
of war prisoners whem captured and lso cooperation offered by
local Chinese. In viow of special circumstances tuken into
consideration in operations against the Chinese Communist
forces, one division of Japanese troops usuully had to defend
about 140-l60 separate localities. In those areas where
Japanese troops kept friendly relations with local Chinese
inhabitants and checked the infiltration of the Chinese
Communist troops, the local Chinese inhabitants always
volunteered waluable information although there were exceptions.
Furthermore, after each amall battle, all enemy documents
captured as well as information obtained fron prisoners of
war were sent to their upper units and they were of great value.
Since Japanese forces held their commanding system in high
respect, thousands of small garrisons scattered in North China
might have well been regarded as advance units of information
collecting machinery. Under such circumstances, it was very
seldom that a special intelligence unit was dispatahed to a
certain specified locality directly by Headquarters respectively
of each Brigade, Division, Army and the Japanese North China
Army. The Chinese military authorities entertain some doubt on
this point, but this is groundless suspicion on their part.
In addition to negligence of intelligence service as afore-
mentioned, the following two factors may be accounted
additionally for the failure to obtain successful results in
the intelligence service:
Small advanced Japanese garrisons were stationed at
isolated places where commupication was difficult,
and no adequate education regarding the collection
of information given to them.
SECRET

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.98)
S E CR-E·T--
fter the outbreak of the Pacific ar, there were
fre uent shifts of troops, and no thorough-going
training had to be given up.
General speaking, it took at least six months for the
troops to acquaint themselved with special tactics to be
employed for enguging the Chinese Communist troops. Most of
the Japanese troops, however, had to be shifted to other
theaters of war when they somehow learned it, an the fresh
troops had to repeat the same thing.
In short, the information collecting mac inery of the
Japanese forees in North China was insuificient eithr in its
structure or in its capacity. It was rather annoyed by
unreliable information offered by professional Chinese secret
agents. then the war situation was generally good for Japan
effects caused by such bad information were apparently
negligible, but with the progress of the war gradually
unfavorable, various weak points were disclosed in every
direction and the Japanese forces had difficulty in grasping
the true nature of the Chinese Communist forces.
With the above description in mind, it will be interesting
to look into the following table:
TRAINING OF M MBARS ON INT LLIGENCE SVICE AND V.LUE OF
INFORLTION OBTAINED
i. Training:
Headquarters of the Japanese North China Army, with a
view to enhancing the ability of those in complete charge of
intelligence service of each Brigade, Division and rmy under
its command and control as well as giving instructions in carrying
out the service, assembled those members twice a year, spring
and autumn at Peiping, or, if necessary, special officers
were dispatched to each Brigade's, Division's or Army's
intelligence section for training of personnel.
In 1944 when general inspection of all Divisions in North
China was conducted for the first time, the intelligence
sections at each rmy, Divisdon and Brigade Headquarters were
also inspected and necessary instructions were given.
In addition, general instructions were given to each
intelligence section by means of telegrams, reference booklets
published from time to time and official circular letters.
In training and giving instructions, emphasis was
especially laid on the characteristic feature of the Chinese
Communist forces and the special fighting tactics to be
S EC RET

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
employed against the chinese Communist forces. For that
purpose, the following booklets were published:
series of the "Extermin:t: on of Com.unisto"
published onee in two or three monthe.
. Guide for Extermination of Communi t
Vol. 1 & Vol. 2.
"Suggestions on Punitive Operations against
Chinese Communist Forces".
"A Desk-Book on Intelligence Service", etc.
The authorities of each Division and rmy, besides
making use of the bove material, distributed mong the
members of the intelligence seetion some reference booklets
necessary for giving special knowledge peculiar to euch
locality concerned.
on the other hand, an exchange of information was
conducted with similar information organs other than the
military once a month as a rule and they were asked to submit
a report from time to time on the information they obtained.
uriginally, special training was not given Japnese
troops before being put on intelligence service. They were
given necessary training while they were on routine duties.
Here we find another trend of neglecting the value of intelli-
gence service.
at the end of 1944, it was felt necessary to have specially
trained members in intelligence service and plans were made to
train those officers graduated from the cadets' training
corps at Paoting and Shihmen for two or three months so they
might be appointed as chiefs of the intelligence sections of
the respective vivisions and Armies. Before these plans bore
fruit, the war was brought to an end.
ii. Value of Information Obtained:
Headquarters of the Japanese North China Army achieved
quite satisfactory results intercepting radio communications
tranamitted by Chungking forces as the latter's supervision and
control of radio communication was poor. During actual opera-
tions the Japanese forces could relatively accurately perceive
in advance attempts and movements to be carried out by Chungking
forces.
On the contrary, it was very difficult or in some cases
almost impossible for Japanese forces to know in advance the
SECRET

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.95)
secrets relative to military oper tions of chinese: comwist
forces, despite considerabl erforts fade for t. tre tion.
on the part of the Japanese forces. suci ein  , e
J panese rorces hau to depena on a rou l eatim tion t ssd on
incomplete information to infer the enemy attmpt: na move-
ments. sut it was, after ll, inaccur te. rooably t Lo migrt
be attributed to the followin, facts:
a) The elusive charecter of the chin se Conmwil t forees.
b) Inferiority of secret agente employ u uh J pnese
forces.
c) strict supervision und control of th chinese comunist
forces over their radio com.unicution  well  the
poor facilities of the Japanese rorces for intercepting
the enemy radio communication.
Consequently, with the progress of the  eneral wer situation
unfavorable to Japan and with the gradual itrurul of Jupunese
troops scattored in various areas, it became al the more difficult
to grasp an accurate conception on the strength nd e uipment
of Chinese Communist forces.
Un the other hand, Japanese forces had no f cilities for
intercepting radio c∞mmunications transmitted by the oviet-
Mongolian forces in the Outer ongolian ree, and 1so it s
almost impossible for the Japanese forces to dispatch tieir
secret agents to that areu. It is not too much to s, therefore,
that no information was obtained reg rding the soviet- ongoli n
forces.
Circumstances being as such, the soviet att cks on the
Japanese forces launched on August 9 were, frankly spe king,
unexpected ones, nd it was not until hostilities began between
Jupanese and ovict troops north of  lgan tlat th= Japanese
forces could get the general ide: on the strengtn nd eguipment
of enemy troops.

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
tral China
Organization
The Second Section of the Headquarters, Central China peditionary
Forces was located at Nanking and acted as the supervising and di-
recting office of the intelligence departments in the armies under
its com and. The scope of its activity was greatly limited since
the Area Armies Intelligence Departments furnished only matters of
extreme importance to be relayed to higher headquarters. Most fre-
quently, the Commanding General of the respective armies utilized
infomation obtained without relaying it to Headquarters, CEF.
Under the command of Central China was the Sixth Area Army, and
under it came the 34th, 20th, 13th and 11th Armies. The Staff De-
partments, containing the Intelligence Officer,as well as other
sections, placed officers responsible for the collection of intel-
ligence in the subordinate divisions, brigades, and regiments. It
was the privilege of these officers to select the men under them
to carry on their investigative functions. Many of these investi-
gators were dvilians who had a knowledge of the locality or lan-
guage qualifications.
Methods of Operation
1. The Army, by means of combat patrols, collected information
concerning both Communist and Nationalist forces at the fronts,
and also utilized agents in penetration operations in the guise
of merchants, smugglers, etc. The amall towns near the fronts
were covered by native informants at local shops, eating places,
and rest houses as well as by the local Peace Preservation Corps.
2. In the larte cities, Shanghai, Nanking, Hankow, Soochow, etc.,
a much vaster network of infomants and agents existed, however,
their duties were more of a counter espionage and economic nature.
The Army played only a mall role in these areas since this acti-
vity was mostly of gendarmerie function.
Shanghai, at which city the 13th Army (NOBORI BUTAI), had its
headquarters, is an exmple of the tremendous overlap of activity
on the part of the numerous Japanese intelligence agencies, and
showed the wast of effort and the interservices' jealousy which
existed, and yet the extreme thoroughness to which the services
conducted espionage and counter-espionage, propaganda, and sub-
versive activities. The Army, wdth its allied Army Bureau
SECRET

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
1KUGUNBU) and Peace Preservation Corps and Puppet Armies, the Gendarmerie
nd its subordinate Police Force, the Navy and its Landing Party and Resi-
ent Office, the Foreigh Office and its Consular Police and various devel-
pment companies, railroad police, etc., delved into every phuse of intel-
igence and exploitation, and formed a tremendous and inpentratable wall
round the city. Each service, jealous and completing, had its own channel
f reporting, and instead of depending on extensive exchange of information
o coordinate their activities, chose to have its own network of agents and
nformants.
Training
The training of intelligence officers for higher positions did not exist,
their positions were granted only after long periods of service with the
Army. Therefore the activities corducted by the officer were not always
according to a formed plan but more according to his personal interests
and desired field of endeavor. This was predominately the policy which
resulted in the forming of special service units (KIkaNs) which were
created to serve a special mission and were then disbanded upon com-
pletion or failure of the mission.
Less important officers and civilian employees were selected to k
in intelligence departments by the following qualifications:
Previous military services, particularly in intelligence.
Language abilities.
Residence in the area of service.
No training was given to these people; they were expected to learn by
experience.
The only persons in the intelligence service who received specialized
training were technicians who had studied radio operation and maintain-
ance, cryptography, and photography, and usually these were enlisted
men.
SECRET

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
JTH CHINA
Organization and Systematic Arrangements of Intelligence
in South China: (See Chart; Exhibit vII)
Prior to the Japanese surrender, their South China
intelligence work was under the direction of the Stafi
Department of the 23rd Japanese Army of Occupation with
Kwangtung as their designated territory. The backbone
of this organization was the Staff Department of the
Army which utilized the Divisions, Brigades, Regiments
and other intelligence units under its control to form
its intelligence net. The Liaison Department and the
Gendarmerie also assisted in such activities. The listed
details are:
1) Service Units:
a) 104th Division
b) 129th Division
e) 130th Division
d) 23rd Brigade
•) The Sth Independent Infantry Regiment
f) The 13th Independent Infantry Regiment
2) Other assisting units:
a) Liaison Department (Renrakubu)
b) Gendarmerie
3) Other Special Intelligence Units (Kikans):
The above organizations were all under the control
of the Staff Department of the Japanese Army. The Army
designated an Intelligenee Staff Officer to each Division,
an officer to each Brigade and Regiment to assume charge
of Intelligence. Under these officers-in-charge, a sub-
ordinate staff was formed from the rank and file. For
other organizations and units, the same arrangement
prevailed, an officer-in-charge, subordinate staff and
interpreters. Details are shown on the accompanying chart.
b. Methods of Operation:
1) Army Organizations: (Service Units)
In this respect, the Army colleeted informa-
tion directly eoncerning the disposition of the
Chinese Army and other relevant information con-
cerning Free China. Captured documents and/er
prisoners of war were sourees of information.
SECRET

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.87)
SECRET
2) Lntelligenes Organisations:
These waits were seattered throughout the country
headed by an Intelligense Officer who purchased
dosuments, newspapers and other printed matter sir-
sulating in Free China. From this source a general
survey was made concerning the sconomde and politieal
ceaditions in Free China, the exsesses or searcity of
materials, curreat sommodity prices, netional morale,
etc. which all contributed to his deductions concerning
current conditions in China. Furthermore, it was the
job of the erganisations to hire Chinese and Fermosans
as agents for infiltration into Free China for
espionsge purposes. Radio intalligenee intereeption,
Lafomatien ceneeraing the Chine India Air Trameport,
and the dispemitien of the American Air Feree and Mavy
Unite - all these astivities were the taske of these
Intelligenee Unite.
.marting
Special Reperts as eecasien demands
2) Radie:
Thie methed was linited to argent and/er
ispertast mettere
3) Talaphenes
For wase alese to Ammy Uaits, er for
wrgent infematien
.  L  
1) The 2ed Aney undar erders frean leadquarters af the
Command at Hankow.
2) Important iaforaatiea ebtaimed by the 23rd amy, the
13th Ay, the Taiwan Amy, the sth Air Paree Sprinsipally
SECRET

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.87)
SECET
serial information), the 2nd Exped tionary Maval
Squadron, the southern Army and the Indo-China
Army was eireulated and axchanged among each other.
3) All intelligenee departments under their respective
divisions wmre responsible for the collestion of
intelligense and the infomation obtained by their
suberdimate wits as well. Such iaformation other
than that relevant te immediate tactieal purposes,
and all mesessary information, was reported to the
23rd Ary. Uaits, besides serving as clearing houses
for their sub-maits, earried out intelligence
eperatiens of their owm and reperted to their respective
auperier Departmenks attacbed to the Amy Divisiens.
There were me desiguated intelligenee organisations
aétached to Brigades and Reciments. This work was
handled by the serviee malte thoneelves, whe were
primsrily interested is eembat iafermatien which might
be ef immedéste semeera te themselvess sueh information
was reported to their immediate superier Uaits. In
their erdimary eperatioss, the intelligense units
ineluded pesifieation propaganda fer which a spesial
offiee was set up. In regard to the Units attached
te the Army Déviaien, thair main ebjeetive chiefly
cesupation, mith main euphasis en iafermation relating
Resalse were reperted to the 23rd Asey.
5)
a) Gren
1. Repenible for atetie ad the preseratien
LLOLLI

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.89)
SHCRET
3. Collection of informatiom from the South China
Five Provinees Intelligence Group. (E anitit v)
All reports were sent to the 23rd Army.
Personnel of the Liaison Department, 23rd ammy:
Department
Mame and Bank
Duties
Liaison Dept. Maj. Gen. Matsui La charge of entire Dept.
General Affairs Gapt. Harashima La charge of personnel and
gemeral affaire.
Dmit #1
Lt. Ikdda
Administration, and direstor
of strategr, collection of
intelligence regarding China.
Unit #2
Cel. Kewai
Direeter of affairs conserning
Puppet Geverament, Army and
the Peliee.
Unit #3
Lt. Togashi
Direstor of economie sabotage
and the purehease of raw
materiale
Ia charge of the exehange of
reperte with ether members
of the.
Similer te Lésisen Department
Seate
1.01.
Gannral:
1) Before the asewmptien in charge by Lt. Col. KOBAYASHI,
the "South Chins Sepionage Agenay" was headed by a
persen whese mame was wall kaown throughout China,
Lt. Col. Oaua, am intimate friend of the German
in Desember, l944, for, the pease preposals, his duties
were taken over by Lt. Col. SAIGO. When SAlGO went
to Memgyang 1n Mareh, 1945, KOBAYASHI took over wntil
the end of the war.
2) During hostilities, various Japanese staff offieers
frequently had to leave for duty to the front and due
to their lack or incomplete kmowledge of the Chinese
language it was difrieult for them to hire and déepeteh
SECRET

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.86)
SECRET
bod agents. Because of these difficulties, Japanese
rinking officers asknewledged the poer quality of
their espionage reports.
3) At the outbreak of the Sine-Japanese war, Japan had
already establiahed many intalligence and espionage
posts throughout China. Besause of the friction that
arose between the men in charge and the agents, the
task was tranaferred to the Aray in the fiald.
4) It can be said that the main souree of enemy
intelligenes was obtaimed through the radio, besause
such reports were mestly military and political of
comprehensive natare whieh Takye and Kanicing considered
to be of great value. The Japasese paid spesial
attentien to the German "Heise" Ageney and their
sollaberation was very slose, sush as the relatieaship
of ranking offieera with HKISE, and the desigmation
of spesifis persomnal, tecbmical and ethermise, for
ccoperation with MEIsk. The list of Japanese personnel
assisting Hklss is given belowi
Unit Orranisatien
Mame and Rank Collakeratien Dutiee
23rd Ammy Hq.
Col. Masegmma Sosial relatiomship
with Waise
23rd Ary Staff Mq. Col. Chada
Ésise's iatimate friend
Capt. Aegama
L'aison with Baise
Sgt. Sasaldi
Interpreter
U Orgaisatien
Kesage intereeption
Pão. Litta
23rd Ar stast Nq. Pet. 
Prt. Masude
.    ()
The meserial referriag to the Spesial Inselligesse
Units of Beuth Chime is lesated ander a saperate seetion
entitled "üpesial Serviee Orgasisatlens (See Tahle of
Contente.)
SICRES

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.93)
SLCHLT
6. lecl of latelli ance Activities
Since the tide of the Pacific war turned in favor
of the Allies, especially since the Arican reoccupation
of Layte and Manila, the Japanese were contemplating the
ventual landing along the south China coust. m.u.ro
the rmorganisation and new juipment of the chinse y,
they kmew the time for the new thinese offanaive was wear.
Because of these facts, the primary concern o Ja unese
intelligence was directed toward the possible place anu
date of american coastal Landings, the progress in tactics
and offensive power of the rejuvenated Chines: army, the new
types of equipment and the probable time of the new chinese
offensive. Herowith is listed their primary oujectives: and
territory covered:
Ubjectives:
(1) Possible American Landinge along the South Crina
coust:
(a) points of landing
(b) time
(c) strength and strated
(2) Time and strategy of Chinese offensive
(3) Infomation relating to air transportation over
the hump
(4) Vegree of suceess. pertaining to the sabotage of
political division of China
(5) actual conaition of peace and order of occupied
south China
(6) Laformation pertaining to concentration of iorces.
SCr

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.81)
SECRET
Territory Covereu:
Shinghua
Romy
0
S ONS
Sui bwan
 Cato
Lokahong
Haan is.
ifuho
SECRET

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
1AL SERV1Cn URG.NIZATIONS
Nomenclature:
Frequent changes in Japanese Special Service organiza-
tions, both in their names and in the functions which they
imply, are apt to cause confusion. A glossary is therefore
given in this paragraph, which sets out the n mes, meanine,
and period of the organization of the special service De-
partment (SD).
CHUA BUKAN
Resident officer
1929-37
(IKUGUN: Army)
TOKUMU KIKAN
SD Army only
1. army SD for less important areas
excluding cities Peiping, Tientsin,
Nanking, Shanghai, Canton ........
...1929-37
2. D whole of China .....
.1937-38
3. Solely for Puppet Government
.1938-43
TOKUMU BU
Special duties dept.,
Army whole of China excluding
Shanghai and Nanking .......
.1938-43
RNRAKU BU
Army Liaison Department .....1943-45
Used only for work with Puppet Gov.
RIKUGUNBU
Army Department or Bureau ......1943-45
Origing:
Although the first organized effort to develop special
services was made by the Navy in l929, it is believed that the
Army had them some years earlier. They existed in the form of
Military Attaches at Peiping. However, when the Chinese
Government transferred to Nanking, the Japanese, with their
increasing interest in China, desired to retain a representative
in North China and in order to avoid diplomatic protest created
the CHUzl BUKAN (Resident Officer) in addition to the
Attaches' office. Resident officers were installed in every
city of importance, subsequently extending to Canton.
Functions:
From 1929 to 1937, the Army Special Service Department
was virtually under the control of the Imperial General Staff
(SAMBO), Tokyo. This was because the main functions of the
Special Service Department during this period were espionage
and counter-espionage (general heading GUNI), for wnich
the General Staff has always been responsible as against the
SECRET

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
function of cooperation with governments, propaganda,
economic and industrial affairs (general heading GUN LI),
for which the war Office (IKUGUNShO) and Admirality
(lGun0) were reponsible. Later, during the occupation,
the SSD's were concerned primarily with the control of the
native population, the establishment of Puppet regimes, and
organization of labor and supplies for the occupation forces,
in addition to intelligence activities.
Changes:
Changes took place as a result of prevailing circumstances,
and took effect over a period of months. The first took place
in 1930 when the IIKUGUN CHUZAI BUKAN activated the TOKUMU
KIKAN (special Service Organization) to conduct similar
functions in less important areas where sections of the
organizations were formed and disbanded as the situation in
that area demanded.
At that time, sections of TOKUMU KUKAN were not iven
special code-names; e.g., UME, MhT U, etc., which applied to
later Army organizations. Thus, during the period 1929 - 1937,
there were the following SSD's:
CHUZAI BUKAN, answering directly to Tokyo, mainly
to the General Staff.
TOKUMU KIKAN (AIKUGUN), from 1930, in less important
areas, answering to Tokyo, mainly to
the General Staff.
Following the opening of hostilities in China in the
summer of 1937, and the subsequent occupation of Nanking by
Japanese forces, the SSD was remodelled, and the office of
CHUZAI BUKAN terminated, with the exception of Army Departments
in Canton and Hankow, when the CHUZAI BUK N remained in addi-
tion to the new organ.
Although the Navy retained their Attaches, the Army
temporarily withdrew theirs until the Wang Ching ei Puppet
Government came into being.
The Army SSD throughout China adopted the name of
RIKUGUN TOKUüU KIKAN, and was for the first time under direct
control of Headquarters, China Expeditionary Forces, Nanking,
which in turn was responsible to the Imperial Head uarters
and/or War Office, Tokyo, according to the nature of the work.
This change in name and of responsibility was ordered by
Lt. Gen. KIT., Seiichi, who was later succeeded by Lt. Gen.
HARADA, Kumakiot HOKUSHI RIKUGUN TOKUMU KIKAN (North Army
Special Service Department) had its headquarters in Peiping
SECRET

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.98)
SECALT
and was in control of Army sSD's in Tientsin, Tsin tuo,
and a few northern cities. Its jurisdiction did not
extend to SSD's in Nanking, Shanghai and Hankow, who
answered independently to Hq., C.E.F., Nanking. N.N-h.1
RIKUGUn TonUmU AIK. (South Army Special Service Department)
had its headquarters in Canton.
Some time in 1938 the Army ssD began to aaopt the same
title as used by the Navy; viz., TUKUMU BU. The name RIKUGUN
ToKUaU KIKAN, especially as regards its espionage and counter
espionage functions, had become too well advertiseu in certain
areas. This cliange in name did not apply to the nry SD in
Nunking and shanghai, where their functions mainly were
concerned with the engineering of and subse uent collaberation
with Puppet Governments.
Thus, during the period 1937-1943, there were the
following SD's.:
RIKUGUN TOKUMU KIKAN -1937-1938
11
:1
BU
-1938-1943
11
KIKAN -
at Nanking - Shanghai - 1938-1943
CHUZAI BUKAI - retained at Hankow and Canton.
The third general change of names and functions of the
SSD's began in the spring of 1943. RIKUGUN TOkUMU BU, TOKUMU
KIKAN and CHUzAI BUKAN were disbanded. In so far as their
functions vis-a-vis the Puppet Government were concerned, the
three were amalgamated into the hNkAKU BU, (Liaison Department),
with the exception of Shanghai, where the SD continued to
operate as the RIKUGUN BU.
The other branch of the Army SSD, that which dealt with
espionage and counter-espionage, was centralized under an
Intelligence Branch, known as BORYAkU JisSHI KIKAN at Head-
quarters, CF, Nanking. This branch was commonly referred to
as TOKUSHU KIKAN (literally Special Duties Organization), but
was not known officially by this title. MiTsU KIkAN and KIKU
KIKAN came under the category of TOKUSHU KIKAN (literally
Special Duties Organization), but was not known officially by
this title. MATSU KIKAN and KIKU KIKAN came under the
category of TOKUSHU KIKAN.
The hENhKU BU had departments in all the important
centers of the Chinese Puppet Government, viz., in Peiping,
Nanking, Hankow and Canton, as well as in Shanghai, where it
was named RIKUGUN BU, but differed from its predecessors in
that it comes under the direct control of Army Headquarters
in Nanking.
This latest organization was born out of several trial
SEC-RET

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
and error methods used by the Army and Navy in China. It proved
itself more efficient and lasted until the end of the war. The
final change in n me to that of a Liaison Org nization and the
assuming of duties along peace preservation lines came about
when the Puppot Government was given the privilege of establishing
its own government and city administrations. The old nd much
dreaded TuKU'U died and left the Chinese people not free of
the special service as the Japanese wished to point out, but
faced by an organization which was much closer to the. eople
in its prying and watchfulness.
The RiatKU BU was usually commanded by an officer of
General's rank, or the rank of Colonel, according to its size
and importance. It became an organization much like a police
force with representations even covering most of the villages
in outlying districtc.
Its principal function was collaboration end li ison with
the Puppet Government, for which a sub-department was maintained
(SEIMU - Political dministration) and also departments dealing
with economics, industry, propaganda, etc.
Mention has already been mude of the existence of an
indopendent organization, the RIKUGUN BU, in Shanghi which
reportod directly to Nanking Headquarters and carried on the
duties of the TOKUuU BU and R NKU BU. However, this organi-
zation was also a complex intelligence organ. Details concerning
the RIKUGUN BU follow under the Sentral Ohin subsection. At
Shanghai there also existed the iRAkU EU as & separate
organization of the above.
Employees of the SSD:
1, Civilian Employoes:
Japanese civil servants who served in the SSD were
generally of two kinds - young, inexperienced university
graduates and old residents of localities in which they
worked. The younger group were generally qualified in
oconomics, propaganda, political administration, etc.,
especially as relating to China. The latter were recruited
on the spot and held such qualifications as language,
business knowledge of the areas they lived in, valuable
contacts, etc. None of the civilians received intelligence
training, but learned their duties through experience.
2) gents:
Agents of the SSD were of various nationalities -
the greatest number being Chinese; whereas Koreans, Formosans
and hite Russians comprised the remainder. As a whole
there was little specialized training, and most of the
knowledge attained was through actual job participation.
SECRET

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.99)
CECRET
Relations between SSD and Axis Representatives:
Relations between the Japanese SSD in China and the German
and Italian diplomatic representatives were maintained on the
surface in the most cordial manner, but behind the scenes
there was a strong undercurrent of resentment which the SSD
centres had towards their xis partners. Particularly was
this the case in connection with the Germans, who were un-
wontedly meddlesóme in the workings of the D.
The Japanese considered China, or at least occupied
China, under the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere, and,
as such, was, without reservation whatever, Japan's affair;
just as the Germans and Italians would have their share
of occupied territory in Europe and frica, should the war
end in the Axis' favor.
After the signing of the Tripartite Pact, the concessions
given to the Germans and Italians as regards information
collected by the SSD were increased. However, it was difficult
to satisfy the insatiable demands of the German representatives
and even of the Italians who were prone to mimic their senior
partner.
German interference in Japanese SSD operations reached
its peak after Dunkirk. On not a few occasions, the Germans
were caught redhanded in buying off Japanese agents, thus
intercepting the information which should have reached the
Japanese. The natural outcome of such occurrences was the
tendency on the part of the Japanese SSD to become even more
parsimonious in parting with information. ith the deteriora-
tion of their position in Africa and Europe, and after Italy's
elimination from the war, the Germans became less bold in
their methods. Also they learned to their cost that Chinese
did not make very trustworthy agents.
Italian representation became almost non-existent when
Italy surrendered. Those pro-Fascist officials who were
left, after the anti-fascists were interned, retained little
of their diplomatic powers and as far as the Japanese SSD
was concerned, there was little liaison to be conducted.
SSD Organizations:
Set out below are reports concerning all SSD organizations
known to this office. This information concerning each organi-
zation explains briefly the objectives, key personnel, locations
and time of activity.
1) UME KIKAN:
UME was organized in 1938 by Lt. General KAGzA in
Nanking for the purpose of supporting and promoting the
SECRET

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRE T
Puppet hegime. In Chinese it was called MLI-H-1NG
(Plun Flower Society) and was attached to the Military
Adviser's Council. In the beginning it was active in
the protection of Puppets from attacks by the C.C. Society
and Blue Shirt Society (TAI LI) und assumed leadership in
the Country Cleaning Movement.
In 1943, Lt. General MATSUI, Chief of Staff of the
Headquarters, CEF, took charge of the organization and
changed its function to one of strategic information
gathering concerning the Chungking Governaent.
It has been highly difficult to obtain information
concerning UM KIKaN as the Chinese authorities have
shrouded it in secrecy, completely ignoring requests for
inforaation about it or permission to interrogate members
of its staff.
Concerning the Shanghai office, it has been learned
that Captain NAk JIlin, Seichi, was in charge and had Lt.
HIZAATSU and Lt. KUOKI on his staff. The office had two
departments: Political, devoted to espionage; economic,
devoted to purchasing and axchange of wur materials with
the forward Chinese Armies. These transactions were made
by the TONAN KIGVO KOSU (East Southern Development Co.)
located in Shanghai, but with branch offices in Chekiang
Province at Hangchow, Chinhwa, Fuyang, Lanchi and Niwoo.
According to a statement by Major General ToMI, Chief
of Staff of the 23rd Army, it was this organization that
engineered the desertion and flight of ANG CHING-wEI and
TSLNG CHUNG-MING from Chungking to Hanoi and thence to
Nanking.
In 1938, the IWAI Mission, (sometimes called the
Special Investigation Group), an independent office of
the Foreign Office, cooperated very closely with UME KIKAN.
IwnI, keiichi, who had served as Consul in Canton, organized
the mission upon his arrival in Shanghai, and received
full cooperation and financial support from Lt. General
KAGEZA, Director of UME.
) OBA KIKAN:
OBA, Masatoshi, once a loafer in Shanghai ingratiated
himself with the military clique following the battle for
Shanghai, 1937, and formed the OBA Organization. In the
pretense of doing intelligence work, he caused many anti-
Japanese to be jailed and destroyed many British and
American industrial plants. He also assisted the Us KIkAN
SECRET

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
in the formation of the Puppet rmy. During the search
for Kuomintang personnel in outlying villages by the
Puppet Government, OBA managed to appropriate a huge
amount of grain for himself.
M.T U KIKAN (Pine Soviety):
MAT-U KIKAN, organized in 1940, was directed by
Lt. Col. OKADa, Yoshimasa, former Chief of staff of the
2)rd Army with offices in Shanghai, Hongkong, Canton and
Hankow, and was responsible directly to Heau uarters,
Nanking. The objection of the organization was to collect
information concerning political personalitles und activities
in Chungking, and utilized this information to persuade
officials to collaborate with the Puppet megime. Prior to
the outbreak of the Pacific war, M.TU Kikin was devoting
its efforts to obtaining foreign capital (gold) by
xporting Chinese native goods, bristles, wood-oil, etc. to
the United States. This trade was financed by SHo.. TSUShO.
The organization was reported to have been disbanded in
1943 and that the information section joined. U KIkaN.
However, a source in Canton reports that up to the surrender,
the activities of MATSU were entrusted to a braneh of the
ITxGAKI HOUsE, with the aim of destroying the Chinese
economic structure by the purchase of metals and ores.
4)
FUJI KIKAN (Shanghai Kikan):
Shanghai Kikan was organized and operated during 1940-
1941 by Captain UnNO (now Lt. Colonel), who assigned directly
from Headquarters, CEF. Its duties, as were the duties of
most Kikans early in the war, were both the elimination of
Chungking agents and persuasion of Chinese officials to join
the Nanking Regime. FUJI KIKAN was more of a terrorist gang
than intelligence organ, and carried out its acts by holding
as hostages members of Chungking officials' families, and in
the case of enemy agents, simply shooting them. Assistants
of URANO were two Koreans, KANZAwA (Kim Kyung Chai) and
YAASHIRO (Choi Kyung Su).
5)
SAKURA KIKAN:
This organization, directed by Major-General OKADA,
operated at Shanghai in 1940 until 1942. It's main activity
was counter-espionage directed against Chungking agents.
6) SAKADA KIKAN:
This organization, originally started by SAKaKA, operated
as an espionage organization for the 13th Army under the
direction of Lt. Col. ICHIG.WA,
_, Intelligence
Staff-Officer. It was known as the New Trading Co., (Shin
Wha Moi Kungsu), and had its offices in the Development
Building, Shanghai. KOJIuA Takeo was the manager as his
assistants, Capt. HASHIMOTO and Mrs. NOGAMI.
7)
MISUMI ORGANIZATION:
This organization was originally directly under the
Headquarters, Japanese China Expeditionary Force, but was
SECRET

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
transferred to the 23rd rmy. The main duty was the inter-
ception of military radio messages sent by the Chinese and
the American headquarters. It was divided into two sections:
the China Section and the American Section.
The attention of the China Section was the Chinese 2nd
Area Command, especially the 7th Lar Area,:the 65th Army, the
63rd Army and the Border kegion Headquarters. Messages from
these headquarters concerning troop movements and supplies
were the main objectives of interest. The main objectives
of interception for the merican Section were the messages
und broadcasts from the Philippines, whicn was the center of
the merican Naval informution, Honolulu and Oahu, nd the
messages that travelled between these points and the United
States. hen the tide of the Facific ar became evident,
this organization devoted its entire energy towards the collec-
tion of information concerning the points of coastal landings
which the Americans ana the sritish forces were contemplating.
But due to lack of equipment and shortage of per onnel, their
achievements in this respect up to the time of the surrender
were poor.
In their study of intercepted messages, the important
points of euch message were made into copies and compared with
other messages sent out. Their time of intercertion ranged
from 0800 hours to 2400 hours.
China Section:
I-C : Captain Yano
Staff : 40 (including four officers)
40
Duty : Radio interception of Chinese messges
American Section:
C-I-C : Capt. Arakawa
22
Staff : 22 (including 1 officer)
Duty : Interception of American radio messages
Apparatus (Technical) Section:
C-I-C : Lt. Sako
6
Staff : 6 (including 1 officer)
Duty : Repair and maintenance of equipment
General Affairs Department:
C-I-C : Capt. Yano (assumes this post also)
8
Staff : 8 (including 1 officer)
Total number of personnel ...
76
SECRET

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
uipment used in the China section:
10 radio transmitter sets with 28 operators
9 sets require 3 men per set
1 set requires 1 man per set
10 sets
one to two translators.
E uipment used in the American Section:
7 sets with 20 operators
6 sets require 3 operators
1 set re uires 2 operators
7
readers and translators together 2 men
Total
17 sets
Types of hadio Transmitters:
RCA
4 sets
National
3
Others
Total
17 sets
This equipment was handed over to our 38th Division and the
50th Division by the Japanese.
8)
The Asiatic Prosperity Organization:
This organization was directly under the headquarters,
Japanese China xpeditionary Force whose headquarters was at
Nanking. It was originally established in Hongkong, but in
April, 1945, it was transferred to Canton under the 23rd
Army. Its main activities were the collection of intelligence
information from documents and newspapers and the dispatching
of agents into Free China to carry out its activities,
especially information concerning military movements in South
China. From their own reports it was difficult to find good
agents for this purpose, and due to the tight anti-espionage
net set up by Chungking, these agents often were arrested or
simply disappeared. Col. NINCUE, Capt. AOYAA and Lt. Col.
KOBAYASHI all expressed the same doubt whether these agents
ever reached their objectives, and imew that results expected
from these people could not be reliable anu therefore confined
themselves chiefly to documentary information. hatever
information they had been able to obtain was concerning the
East River Communist and bandit activities.
Personnel:
Name and Rank
Duty
Present Address
Major Ninoue
Head of Organization
Deceased
Capt. Aoyama
Successor to Maj. Ninoue Honam Concentration
(PON) Camp
Sgt. Yatomi
Mamber of the Staff
Liaison Department
2nd Area Command
Mr. Masuda
Employee
Lingnan Concentration
Camp
Kwing Chuen
Chauffeur (Chinese)
Unknown
Chang Yiu
Cook
11
DECRET

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.98)
SECHET
Sphere of Operation of the Asiatic Prosperity Organization
CHAT  2
Chungking
(Chan Wang)
(ilong Kam ing)
Kioei Ying
(hong Hin)
Kunming
San Nan District
D(Hu Ming)
E. River District
(So)
Loting
(Chan)
Canton
Yin Chan
Wong Ching
Li Heung Wing
Li Shing Chung
NoLE: The chief agent for this organization was a Chinese,
LI SHING WING, a native of Toishan, aged 38. Before the
war he was said to have been connected with the Chinese
"Blueshirts", and supplied information to the Japansse
at Hongkong after the beginning of hostilities. He eame
to Canton in Märch, 1945, to continue his work by
establishing a shop as his blind under the name of CHEUNG
LEE HONG situated on Tai Mm Road, S. This was his
headquarters where he dispatehed agents to Chungking,
Kunming, Kweiyang, San-nan district, the East River and
Loting area. Once a month his men went out utilizing
the river boats and trade-travelers as means of contact.
SECRET

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.94)
SACHUT
9)  Orgnition:
This orgmization was part of the Japanese sth xir
Force at Nanking. Its main objective was the interception
of messages relating to the movements of the merican ir
Force in China. Due to the expediency of the work, it
maintained close collaboration with the German Heise
Agency at Canton. From March, 1944, it began to undertake
the main task of intercepting meesages of the A.T.C. and
Sergeant NITT., was designated to collaborate witn the Germans.
Before collaboration with the Germans, the only duty of the
Kagami Organization was the interception of n.T.C. messages.
In June, 1945, this unit moved to Central China, together
with the 5th Air Force.
Personnel:
Major KAGAMI
Head of Organization
Capt. KIGENOI
Staff Member
C. OAITO (Ofuji)
19
11
Cap. TaKAYA
11
11
Ltg (Uncertain romanisation)
11
11
Sereant NITTA
10) YOSHINO Organization:
This organization was attached to the Headquarters of
the Japanese China Expeditionary Force. It was set up in
Canton on June, 1944, with Maj. Gen. YuSHlNo as the head.
Its objectives were sabotage directed against ranking Chinese
military officers, sowing seeds of discord between local
Governments and the Central Government, and the instigation
of peace overtures through false propaganda of Sino-Japanese
cooperation.
Upon the recall of Maj. Gen. Yushin to Nanking Head-
quarters in February, 1945, Maj. Gen. TuMIT,. (ItNDn) took
over the organization which he wound up and reorganized into
what was known a "The South China Espionage Agency" whose
main objective was the instigation of peace between the
Chinese forces stationed in Kwangei and the Jupunese. The
results of this effort were nil.
Personnel:
Name and hank
vuty
Present Address
Maj. Gen. YusHINo Hoad of Organization In Japan, address unknown
Lt.Col.FUKUYAMA Assistant Head
Staff Officer, 23rd Army,
at present in Shanghai.
Lt.(Uncertain ro- Secretary
nddross unknown
manimation)
Sgt. KIT..G.
Secretary
Liaison Department
2nd Area Cammand
SUC.LT

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Take Organization:
The duty of this organization was the study of the
military, political, cultural and other subjects of the
Chinese.
The Hunan Pukkobu Organization:
The principal duties of the HUNAN FUKKObU Organization
was to avoid coercive action against the people of the
occupied area in order to gain the good will of the people,
to maintain a popular support of the people, to gain the
support of discouraged war-lords and politicians, to collect
resources and food in order to maintain the Japanese
occupation forces.
The FUKKOBU was organized under the guidance of the
Sakurabutai and the Ministry of ar. The Commanding Officer
of the Changsha Organization was Major General SAK.To TOYOKI.
The following is a diagrammatic outline of the organiza-
tion:
a) General Office:
1. Commanding Officer - Colonel HORIE
2. Principle - Same as Chinese Organization
3. Direct Section:
A. Serrice Section: Receiving and dispatching
documents and wireless messages.
B. Accounting Section: heceiving, paying, and
auditing.
b) Economical Affairs:
1. Commanding Officer - Colonel NAKASHIMA
2. Principle - Cultivate resources, "oppress" economics,
steal material in order to fulfil the military needs.
3. Direct Section:
A. Mining Dept.:
Investigat on, research and
cultivation.
B. Munition Dept.:
Metal ware and all materials concerning
munitions and to establish cigarette,
wine and soy, leather, clothing and
dyeing, soap, alcohol and bags
factories.
C. Collecting Dept.: Collecting material, drafting and
buying or exchange.
D. Finance Dept.:
Currency, banks, increase production,
loan and exchange (cooperate with
merchants to transport important
materials from interior).
E. Tochnical Dept.: Economical planning, control planning,
mining research, etc.,and concentrate
the technical experts.
F. Cooperation Assn.:To cooperate with the merchants in
occupied area on economical affairs.
SECRET

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET
1.) Ihe hunan Fukkobu Organization (Continued)
b) conomical ffairs: (Continued)
virect section: (continued)
G. Representative Jrganization:
1) Kodama Org.: ustabliahed by Naval Dept. and under
FUnnubU' direction. collecting
m. terial to supply to Naval Dent.
Pretendeu to be cummercial ore iza-
tion, but in fiet an organization
to steal materiis.
2) howa roko: satablished by Ay et. unu under
FU.uu' airection. me as Kodama
to supply to Army vepl. service-metal
ware, madicine alla coin.
3) Mana:
Established by ry Det. nd under
FUnnJBU's direction. Jame us Showa
Yoko. service-collectin, v.rious
food and grease.
H. Direct Companies:
1, nsien Kiang Tdg. Co.: Supervissd by Capt. 1..Tund.
serice-axchange with daily use,
commodities to military needs such as
food and grease.
2) Hunan Dept. Store: Supervised by MaTUl. Serdce
supply to Changsha citizens commodities
and salt. Principle - to hold people's
goodwill by maintaining C...B. notes.
3) Kung Ping shan Han: Supervised by Capt. T.KaToil
Service and principle - same us Hunan
Dept.
4) Koan Printing Co.: Supervised by Changsha FUakoBU.
Service-announcements and declarations
and military List..
c) Political Affairs:
1. Commanding Officer - Lt. Colonel TEain.
2. Principle - to hold people's goodwill by organizing
Puppet Government in occupied area
and to maintain social security in
order to aid Japanese to curry on
the war.
3. Direct Section:
A. Propaganda Dept.:
1) Consolstion Unit: To hold consolation affairs
in certain areus.
2) Cultural Unit: Cultural society, to control
the publishint of puppet papers.
3) wad Unit: Urganized rouds maintaining units
(intc)lo higwys d rlwy in order
to keep peace and increase trans-
portation.

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.91)
CLCh-T
he liunan Funkobu Organization (Continueu,
ilticffuirs (Continued)
. srect section (continueu,
. trl Dept.
1, iniormation Unit: upe rvised by I m. ..11..
(Civilin)
1. Duty-Commercial
altuation at chango.... s
curing lo mation 
survellling uerr
activitles. ure. ors than
  Tgrciation
43 were Hupei.
2) Special service Unit: Supervised by Capt.
SUMIYA (
)，
relative of uapanese mperor.
Juty - to invostlgate
actions. surveilling
working comr.ues.
3) Economical Special: Supervised by HauuCHI
jervice Unit:
(
). Organizing
econamical police and
Flanosu's plainclothes men.
Duty to maintain C.n.B.
notes and prevent inflation
(high cost of living).
4) Puppet Org. Unit:
Supervised by CH .NG I FUNG
(
). Duty -
Organizing Puppet, Provincial
City and Listrict Government
and serial organizutions.
Organizing special service
group in Interior and working
group in ocoupded area.
Communication section: To
collect information from
newspapers and articles
published in Interior.
BinNCH UFFICh: stablished in every county, district and
big cities of the occupied areas. The
organization is same, but smaller.
SECRT

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.88)
OLCRET
Cl I.IGENCE GRoUP: ource advised tt tere 
a sccret intolligence uroup vwit. the Guner
l o t J t . vce
did not know if this Grou. hd  cpo.
nme, but a iu that it wt iw. rufcrred
to by memver. of the Kampuiter ... thhe
'Secret Intclligence Group . Tias uroup
    Ca. i.
who is . retive of tio Jpanest Lp il
,  o lso . h 
cervice Unit in the Politica i irs
-ection o1 the Funkust. this C. cut con-
sisted or only two Jipcnes., C.pt. sualy.
and  ergeant, but they loyd about
30 Chinese, most of whom c.me fron Hupei
Province. The main duty o1 this Group was
to find out the number, pi.u., uctivity
and uipment of Chinece rorces.
Source also advised that Capt. sulYn had
planned for a group whose main purpose was
to assassinate American and Britlah officers.
This plan was suggested a few weeks before
the surrender and wat never put into effect.
 . o ourc dis tht
all three organizations kept tueir own
recoras ana files, but exchanged copics of
their recoras freely. Important c.sus were
forwarded to Tokyo via J. panese Heau uarters
in Nanking.
such free liaison and cooperation existed
in advancet areis, out not i ligtier hoad-
qwurters.
13) ashi iugnby ( bur:
The Jupunese nray surcau (ikugunbu) w . indepenuent
intelligence collecting orgunization, located in shangti,
uncer the uirection of Major General Kn.cu Yo hiTa.0,
.. of ., N. nkine, and was under the direct supervislon of
Huad,uarters, China expeditionary Forcet, Nunking, from
1 octover, 194x, to the enu of the war.
) Purpooe:
he general purpose of the rm ureu w to
reprosent the Headquarters in Shanghii in & varlety of
inteligunce affairs necessary in ttis l rge ci, which
str: not included in the functions of the ltn rty. It
acted not only e a li. ison body wir. the art, .v und
ssy ofiice, but so  an intelignce i,
counter-esplonage and propaenda -renc..
2C7

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.94)
1) 1. nI  ikuruntu( my sure )olinu,
b) runctions:
I. collection of politic:1 .nu economn intel gt.ce -
cerning Chinese anu torei,ners by me ns  gunts
and rauio reception.
2. Liaison affaire concernil chinese, c str.ction..
. alson with Jaanese gencls.
4. Liaison with agencies and oifl . 0. s 
noutral countries.
5. Propaganda proparation nd distrit ition.
c) Structure:
Director of the amy bureau
cenior Staff Officers
1. First Department (Inteliience,
A. Political and Economic section:
i. rolitical Information ulect.on
ii. cconomic sup-section
lii. Matoriale sub-section (Prepar. tion and
translation of publictions,
B. Foreign Affairs section
C. Foreign Information Section
i. Reception and translation o1 rao roadcasts
ii. Preparation and consoliu.tion
2. Second Department (Liaison crfice for Clinese ffairs)
3. Information Department (Press sureau)
4. General Affairs Department (Adminiatr tive,
d) Methods of Operation:
Through intorrogation with stafi olilcers, only
deniale concerning the use o1 agents were rtceivou, and
phaais was placed upon the liaison duti of tne orguni-
sation. however, iniormants have volunteered thut the
kikugunbu was the leading intalligence guncy in lanhai
throughout the war, which employed numercus J.+.ese,
Chinese and foreign plainclothes agents.
a special effort was made by the kikugunbu to penetrate
and play  role in white nussian atfairs to tne axtent of
operating a Russian language daily, the "Far Eastern
Daily Nows" owned by A. kur kl, who was also nsslstant
Chairman of the hussian migrant'o Committee. Not oniy
was this intended as a means of controlling and prejuuicing
Russian thought to favor Japan' war in cnin, but also
a means of cultivating hussian informants.
In one sense, the Bureau was  special service
organization (Kikan) om a very elaborate scale, working
directly and indepandently as a strategic office of the
Nanking Headquarters. However, unlike must of the Kikans,
this organization had many more departments and sectlons
and phases of intelligence activity to conuuct than most
Kikans operating usually on one particular assignment. it
was the one organization in shanghai which aiu most to
coordinate the efforts of all intelligence gathering gencics.
(Source: Lt. Col. d, min., Senior stafr ufficer, nixugunbu,
15 Movember, 1945. bvaluation C-3).
DACANT

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Gendarmerie (Kempei Tai)
a. Qrganization and Command
The Gendarmerie, a special branch of the armed forces, which conducted
Military Police functions, served both the Army and Navy, although it
was under the directicn of the War Ministry and of the Provost Marshal
General, and thereiore more closely connected with the Army.
The Kempei Tai in China was not controlled from Japan but was directly
responsible to General OKAaURA, Neiji, Commanding General, China Ex-
pectionary Forces; no orders or directives were received from any higher
Kempei Tai, Headquarters in Tokyo. If any Kempei matter was of suffi-
cient importance to report to the Imperial General Staff, it was reported
through command channels by General Okamura. The Kempei, l ke the Army,
was divided into the areas, North, Central and south China, the commanders
of which were responsible both to their area commanders and the Commanding
General; in the Armies, the Army commander did not decide policy matters
of the Kempei but merely laid down rules and regulations which were to be
enforced by the Kempei Tai.
In Japan, the Kempei Tai Comnander had no control over activities in China
but was solely responsible for operations in Japan proper under the juris-
diction of the Nar Ministry.
b. Duties - Generally, the Kempei is divided into two general sections:
General Affairs Section: Concerned with matters of policy,
personnel, records, and thought ∞ntrol.
Services Section: Concerned with training of personnel,
security, espionage, counter espionage, supervising civi-
lian employees cf the Army, policing occupied areas, guard-
ing military installations, surveiliance of Japanese in
occupied areas and controlling black market.
The rmy was responsible for handling of prisoners of war, and the
only connection that the empei had with prisoners was when they
were requested by the Army to provide guards for the transporta-
tion or detention of prisoners.
Reports from various parts of China, do not offer any consistant depart-
mental structure of Kempei units, although all present as duties, the
above mentioned.
SUCRET

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.96)
CECRAT
6. Gendarmerie (hempei Tai.
a. urganization and Command
The Gendarmerie, a special branch of the armed forces, which conducted
Military Police functions, served both the Ary and Navy, although it
was under the directicn of the War Ministry and of the Provost Marshal
General, and thereiore more closely connected with the Army.
The kempei Tai in China was not controlled from Japan but was directly
responsible to General UKaxUna, Neiji, Commanding Jeneral, China X-
pectionary Forces; no orders or directives were received from any higher
Kempei Tai, Headquarters in Tokyo. If any Kampei matter was of suffi-
cient importance to report to the Imperial General Staff, it was reported
through command channels by General Ukamura. The Kempei, 1. ke the Army,
was divideu into the areas, North, Contral and south Chiha, the comanders
of which were responsible both to their area commanders anu the Commanding
General; in the Armies, the Army commander did not decide policy matters
of the Kempei but merely Laid down rules and regulations which were to be
enforced by the Kempei Tai.
In Japan, the Kempei Tai Comnander had no control over activities in China
but was solely responsible for operations in Japan proper under the juris-
diction of the ar inistry.
b. Dutiae - Generally, the Kempei is divided into two general sections:
Ganeral Affaire Section: Concerned with matters of policy,
personnel, records, and thought ontrol.
zervices Section: Concerned with training of personnel,
security, espionage, counter espionage, supervising clvi-
lian employees cf the rmy, policing occupied areas, guard-
ing military instaliations, surveil ance of Japanese in
occupied areas and controlling black market.
The rmy was res onsible for hanaling of prisoners of war, and the
only connection that the Aempei had with prisoners was when they
were roquested by the army to provide guards for the transporta-
tion or detention of prisoners.
Reports from various parts of China, do not offer any consistant depart-
mental structure of Aempei units, although all present as duties, the
acove mentioned.
SLORET

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
This does not include vast numbers of informants. Exceptions to these
strengths existed in most large cities where there were numerous sub-
stations; as for example, Shanghai wtere there were five important sta-
tions axcluding Headquarters, each of which controlled sub-stations, and
patrols.
d. Rocruiting and Training
All gendarmerie personnel were obtained from other units of the army such
as the infantry, artillery, and cavalry. No one was assigned to the Kempei
Tai upon induction. The Kempei Tai always had a standing List of volunteers
from other branches and when replacements were needed examinatlons were given
to the volunteers and their background was investigated. The best qualified
men were selected for the Kempei Tai, and sent to a school. Formerly the
only school was in Japan, but in the last two years schools were set up in
Peking, Manchuria, and Nanking. The mchool in Nanking was run by the Central
China Gendarmerie Unit and furnished replacements for that command. The
course in the school consisted of about four months training in police methods,
gendarm policy, military discipline, etc.
There were only two KEuPEI schools in North Chani and Manchuria. One was
located at Peiping, and the other was located at Chang Chun (SHING KING), Man-
churia.
The curriculum at the Peiping school consisted of physical training: rough
and tumble, judo, mob control, etc.; mental treining (Shinto); superiority
of the Japanese race, unconquerability; undercover training, espionage, agent
nets, penetration, and interrogation methods. The courses varied in length
from three months and six months to one year, depending on the type of work;
police, espionage, etc. The school graduated from 20u to 300 students per
year; all of these were Japanese personnel, both military and civilian.
The school at Chang Chun was very similar to the Peking school but it was con-
siderably larger and graduated Japanese, Koreans, and White Fussians.
Refresher training was given at most units every six months to officers and
men alike in the form of trial cases, which were to be solved in theory by
written paper.
Mothods of Operation:
(1) Jurisdiction
The jurisdiction over persons of the Kempei Tai in law ana order matters is
restricted to military personnel and persons travelling with the Army.
SECRET

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.98)
Japanese civilians came under the jurisdiction of the Consular Police and
Chinese civilians re under the jurisdiction of the puppet police. Une
axception to this might be that in case of a riot the Kempei Tai w uld e
ordered by the army commander to assist the civilian and consular police
to restore order. Also, the consulate police mi tt request the hempei Tai
to assist them if they were unable to cope with a situation. The Kempei
Tai did not have a liaison officer with the consular andpuppet police.
However, the army maintained a liaison office wi ich dealt with t.e c r.su-
late and the puppet government and this army liaison office would landle
the liaison between Kempei Tai and the puppet and consular police. Another
exception concerning jurisdiction over Japanese and Chinese civilians is in
the case of suspected espionage, in which matter the Kempei Tai had the
right of arrest and prosecution over any person, may the, be enemy nationals,
Japanese civilians, or Japanese military or naval officers and men of any
rank. In the case of noutrals, an arrest may be carried out but the neutral
is usually turned over to his consular representative for punishment.
2. Trial of offendere
The trial of a civilian either enemy or Japanese national was ∞nducted in
dther a civil or military court depending upon the charge ano the arrest-
ing organization. If the civilian in question was booked with a political
charge, which most frequently was the case, since most offenses during time
of war were considered political affronts at Japan, he was subject to a
courts martial in the Japanese Military Court (Gumpo Keigi), and if found
guilty and sentenced to jail, would be placed in a military jail. Criminal
trials against Japanese citizens (non-military) took place in the Comsular
Court; against Chinese in Puppet Courts; against neutrals at their respec-
tive consulates, unless these neutrals were not nationals of courtries that
had sxtra territoriality rights in China, in such a case the trial took
place in a Puppet Court.
The Navy de not have an organization similar to the Kempei Tal, and Kempei
Taiwls responsible for order on the part of Navy personnel. In the event
Navy personnel get into trouble, the Kempei Tai turnel them over to the Navy
fo. disciplinary action. The only time that the Navy might have any control
over the Kempei Tai would be in a case where an island garrison ts commanded
by a Navy Commander, in which case the Navy Commander would also be the over
all commander of the Kempei Tai in that area.
Exceptions to this rule eisted in the cities of Shanghai and Tsingtao where
the Navy, as the arrogantly superior branch of service, was undisputed in
certain areas of the city; they were the sole economic exploiters and first-
law enforcement agency in the area, filowed by the gendarmerie, and finally
the police. It wasn't until early 1945 that the Kempei Tai, because of the
SECRDT

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Navy's loss of prestige and strength in the Pacific, was able to challenge
and counter Navy orders in these areas.
3. Agents
In outlying forward areas, the agents of the Kempei Tai were under th.e same
covers as special service men, such as storekeepers, traders and c.erchants,
inn keepers, etc., most of whom were unpaid and received only snall privi-
ledges in return for services, in the form of permits for trade, or permis-
sion to deal in illicit goods, or the priviledge of purchasing rice, cloth-
ing, and foods at lower cost than the market price.
In the larger cities, agents were of a variety of natioralities, predominantly
Chinesa however, although foreign agents and informants were most valuable in
their understanding or black market, swindling, extortion methods, bl akmail,
tc. Again, these agents received only slight monetary remuneration, and the o
only benefit they received for their services was to be able to carry on these
criminal activities at the expense of the population and to the benefit of
themsalves and the oificials for whom they worked.
Many gendarms worked in plainclothes and operated much like agents themselves,
however, they were, toward the end of the war, very disconcerted about their
personal security, since very little enemy espionage threatened their posi-
tions. Through the medium of terrorism and torture of arrested  ersons, a
vivid and realistic threat axisted in the minds of allied sympathizers and
operators, who cautiously observed all rules and regulations lail down by the
occupation forces and enforeed by the Kempei Tai,in every effort to retain
their own security and safety.
Because of such a situation there were few strictly loyal Chinese agents work-
ing for the National Government, the Communists, or the American Forces; they
only way they could exist and still carry on their intelligence role was to
act as double-agents, and for their own benefit serve both sides. The Kempei
Tai did not have the axclusive right to handle double agents, and if the Army
caught an agent they might use him without notifying the Kempei Tai.
xnibit  - Kempei Tai at Tsin tao, N. hina
SECRET

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
D. KNANTUNG ARMY INTELLIGENCE SERVICE:
This army was considered to be the best of the Japanese Army
Ground Forces until 1943, at which time it totallod 1,000,000 in strength.
However, afterwards approximately 500,000 troops were withdrawn to fight
on other fronts. Until 1943, this army was prepared and had plans to
launch an attack on Russia.
The intelligence services of the Kwantung Army was likewise
considered to be the best not only in China, but of the whole Japanese
Army.
1. ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE:
The 2nd Section, Headquarters, Kwantung Army, was charged
with the collection of information, examination and appraisal of
information collected, investigation into the prevailing military
situation, and the planning for and supervision of land services.
It was organized as follows: Chief of the 2nd Section, a Colonel
in rank, was responsible to the Commander and the Chief of Staff,
and reported directly to Imperial Headquarters, Tokyo, and had
under his jurisdiction four sub-sections which are as follows:
a. General Affairs Section - in charge of personnel, records, etc.
b. Intelligence Section - Affairs connected with information
collecting.
Military Investigations. Section - in charge of investiga-
tions for military requirements.
d. Meteorological Section.
Besides the above duties, contact was maintained with and
supervision was given to the Public Security Bureau of the
Foreign Ministry of Manchukuo and the Investigation Section of
the South Manchurian Railway Company.
2.
METHODS OF OPERATION:
Generally speaking, the intelligence servioes of the
Kwantung Army were of first rate although even they had much to
improve. The results gained through the activity of its intelli-
gence services were sufficiently fruitless in preparing any
military operation. This was exemplified at the time of the
Russian advance into Manahuria, their endeavor to reinforce
their Army last summer, and also in a series of incidents
occurring on the Russo-Manchurian Border. The means by which
the intelligence service gathered its information falls into the
following categories:
SECRET

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
a. Special information was secured from the decodin, of
Soviet army radio messages of which only the simy ler
three letter oodes were deciphered. By this meins, in-
formation about the disposition of umy grous and their
movementa and maneuvers were obtained. However, no
information was gained concerning the organization of
the armies, their equipment and their potuntial fighting
strength.
b.
Aorial photography contributed much to the formulution of
invasion plans by the Kwantung army throgct. prepuration of
topographical over-lay maps. Aerial photography was
exclusively conducted by the 2nd Air Force and much infor-
mation was gained concerning soviet airficlus and the
stationing of their aircraft, military instllations,
warehouses, fleet disposition, etc., it such places as
CHITA, KHAVALOVSK, VULASILOV anD VLAUIVO-TK.
0.
Land observations were conducted by reconnaissance
patrols that sought information concerning the general
enemy situation and their fortresses along the frontier.
d.
Information from documents which were sent to Japanese
Special Service organs in Marbin from such places as
Moscow and Chita by Japanese diplomatic representutives
were, after translation, distributed to all Army
Division Headquarters in Manchuria. such information
as the transfer of army units and war materials in
eastern Soviet territory, as well as books and documen-
tary material were curried by diplomatic agents who
traveled between Manchuria and Soviet hussia via the
Siberian Railway.
Information gained through interrogating soviet military
deserters and civilian refugees gave little information
other than that of organizations and quipment of mall
units, internal situation, and military discipline of the
Red Army. In many cases, the Russian Army sent "fake"
army deserters to willingly offer false information.
f. Sending of agents across the fremtier never proved
effective and the Iwantung Army never expected much from
such missions. It was difficult to acyuire qualified
persons; the Soviets had an excellent anti-espionire net-
work; and the racial differences teo frequently led to
the discovery of agents. Double agents were used, but
proved unreliable and ineffective in the opinion of the
JE C RE T

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.98)
S E C R E T
Japanese intelligence.
There was no use of Special Service organizations or Kikans
in this area in espionage activities and the Military
Intelligence Section conducted all of this work themselves.
However, in counter-espionage and peace preservution
activities in Manchuria, the Military Intelligence played
only a small role since these matters were handled by the
Military Police (Kempei) and the Peace Preservatior. Corps
respectively. However, the latter was supervised by and
responsible to the 2nd Section. These two organizations
shall be described under their respective headings.
Ever since the Manchurian incidant, Japan, from the
standpoint of possible hostilities with Russia and also
the necessity of rendering assistance to Manchukuo, did
everything in her power to foster the Kwantung Army and send
the best men and equipment to that army.
Report on "Kwantung Army Intelligence Service", arch, 1946,
C-3.)
SECBET

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
EXHISITI
THE AHLD INDEFOND NT GUD UNIT. PIPING
(1)
Duties:
The Intelligence Room of the Headquarters tried to gather information
concerning the activities of the Communist elements and its armed forces,
which were the most important factors obstructing construction and
Japanese endeavors to establish stability in provincial districts. The
information gathered was utilized whenever the Japanese forces started
new operations against Red forces. The information, as soon as obtained,
was imediately tranamitted to higher command and various units velow.
For this purpose, a special section was organized in the Head uarters
under the direction of an officer espocially assigned to the tisk.
(2) Organization, Personnel and Duties:
Office in charge: Captain AORU IIZUKA
Sections
Remarks
Telephone & Telegrams
Collection of information,
General Affairs
their study and examina-
Reporting & Information
tion
Special Investigation Corps
Information by Documents
Study of Communist forces,
Translation & Interpreting
party and population in
Red area
(3) Training & Training Equipments
plan existed for giving education connected with the collection
of information to intelligence officers attached to each battalion four
times a yeur. However, this plan was never realized as the war came to
an end only four months after the plan was considered.
No plan ever existed for special education to be given to non-
commissioned officers and anlisted men.
Some documents and books were given from higher commands for the
purpose of educating. Otherwise, no special e uipment was employed for
training.
(4) Cases of Success and Failure
hile in most cases, information was gained through Chinese organs
cooperating with the Japanese or from villagers, action promptly taken
by Japanese forces on the basis of these informations rarely met with
success as Cormunist forces had a very excellent system of preventing
SECRET

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.92)
C
- inst my leukage or military sccret. In thi., she r ci'I or ite or
i.le ojul: tion, too, counted much.
Hot ble aon the cuses of success was the cuse in hich the
Jp hose forces, aftor encirclin the main body of ed forces in
Huinchen -hisien in June, 19,5, successfully deult  serious blo. to 
1 ric body of Conmunist forces which tried to ruscuc their comr de units
in Jpuese encirclemont. This  adue to iniorm tion the Jp muse
ootulneu in time.
In uorrilla warfare, on the whole, it has :lways been extrenely
diffioult to get ahead of enemy hovementu. It wus found tht for an
ofriciunt orking of our intelligence network, quite  nwaber of persolel
would be needed to work exalusivaly for that, while actully it wus not
the case.
wach battalion relied on mmoossary infommation on the gunts of
the Hein in Hui, Cooperatives and other nutive organe in close contact
with local villagers for the same purpose. nemy prisoner., toc,
sauctimss, offered yaluable inrormation. Chinese spies, however, were
seldow employed, because their efficacy was very doubtful.
(~ource: "ummary Peport on inemy and Non-nemy Intelligence Organizations
in .sin tao", 10 Decanber, 1945. H/80. valuation: C-3)
SCT

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
EXHIBITII
PEIPING INFORMATION ORGN (OR SHIGEKAWA ORG.N)
i. Make-up:
This organ was mainly in charge of collecting information on the
Chungking forces and in the north-western part of China, and was organized
as follows:
Chief of the organ:
Colonel K. Shigekawa
Assistant officer:
Sub-lieutenant Senda
Information Squad:
7 men
General Affairs Squad:
5 men
Note: No regular intelligence officers and men existed. As the Chief of
the organ had long been in China, he himself called on many seniors and
friends for the collection of necessary information.
ii. Training and Education:
As there were no regular intelligence officers or men, there was no
necessity of considering this question.
Except giving necessary suggestions and guidance from the Chief of
the Organ during his personal contact, no regular training was conducted
for the members of the Organ.
iii. Dispatch of Intelligence Agents:
a) In the Muhameddan Cireles:
Keeping close contact with the Muhammedans of the Chingcheng
Temple (belonging to the North China Association of All-China
Muhammedan Federation) the branch temples of which are scattered
in various places in North China, the Peiping Organ gathered
various information obtained from Muhammedan circles in North
China.
The Peiping Organ gave no specified command or order to the
Muhammedans concerned and only sought for useful information
during the course of ordinary conversation with them. They were
under no obligation. Those Muhammedans who were used to bring
information were:
HAN
trader, at Hoehou, south-eastern part of Kansu
province.
HAN SHOU-TANG, formerly soldier, at Hsining, •ast of Chinghai
Lake, eastern part of Chinghai Province.
SECRET

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
PEIPING INFORMATION ORGAN (OR SHIGEKANA ORGAN)
MA SHI-I, local Muhammedan, at Changkiachwan, south-eastern
part of Kansu Province.
On the other hand, efforts were made to keep close contact
with the Muhammedan traders coming to Peiping from the south-
eastern part of Kansu Province. As they were large in number,
their names in detail are not available here.
b) At the Time of the Honan Operation:
At the time of this operation, Chinese traders, farmers
and Muhammedans of Honan Province were locally employed as
secret agents and were dispatched to Loyang and Sian, but no
success was obtained as almost all of them did not return.
e) Intelligence Agents in the Peiping-Tientsin Area:
As afore-mentioned under the heading of Make-up", there
were no regular intelligence agents at this Peiping Organ.
Howewer a number of the Chinese with whom the Chief of the Organ
became acquainted during his long stay in China were utilized as
medium of information required.
iv. Expense Required:
a)
Current Expenditure:
Y20,500 FRB monthly.
b)
Extra disbursements were made in case of military operations.
For instance a sum of I80,000 was appropriated at the time of the
Honan Operation in the spring of 1944.
v. Activities outside Peiping Area outlined:
a)
With the outbreak of the Honan Operation in the spring of 1944,
the Peiping Organ was order to transfer in Honan Province and was
engaged in the main in the survey of military geography and was
also in charge of the collection of information necessary for the
maintenance of local public peace.
The members of the Organ returned to Peiping in the latter
part of April, 1945. Later they went to the Japanese homeland on
a furlough and came back to Peiping in the latter part of July.
Before they were given a new duty the war was brought to an end.
b)
The principal activities undertaken by the Peiping Organ in
the past are as follows:
SECRET

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
INFORM TION ORGAN (OR SEIGEKAA ORGAN)
Just after the outbreak of the China Affair:
Participated in the formation of the Public Peace Maintenance
Association of the special municipality of Tientsin.
Keeping close contact with the members of the Chinese Youth
Corps who were residing in NorthmChina supported the development
of the same Corps.
Created the Hsinmin College in Peiping and took csre of the
institute until the first students elapsed four months of study.
Participated in the campaign to support General u Pei-fu
in 1939.
Participated in the conference between General Yen Hsi-shan
and the Japanese forces in North China regarding the peace
problem about 194l or 1942.
After the Outbreak of the Greater East Asiatic War:
Attempted to make some ∞nnection with the Chungking authorities
regarding peace negotiations, and launched various political
activities. Despite much exertions it ended in failure.
Attempted to persuade General KO CHU-KUO to have his forces
jointly carry out with the Japanese forces punitive operations
against the Chinese ∞mmunist forces, but it failed.
Engaged in launching peaee negotiations with Chungking through
Chang Hsueh-ming, Li Yu-liu and other generals, but it was in vain.
S EC RET

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
EXHIBIT 
PEIPING SPECIAL INTLLIGENCE CORPS
(1) Duty:
The main duty of this corps was to gather various information
needed by the North China Army both from the political and strategical
necessities. For this purpose, this corps at Normal times tried to
gather information concerning the situation in the Northwest Rogion of
China and the regions in the vicinity of Peiping, while at the time of
the prosecution of specific operations, information concerning the
movements of enemy forces in the specific areas.
(2) The Organization, and the equipment utilized:
I. Chinese Section
General Affairs Room: 5 Sub.-Lieutenants and 3 civilians
Sagyo (ork) Corps:
Captain and 5 officers
Accounts Room:
2nd Lioutenant and 2 civilians
No. 1 Room:
5 civilians, 3 engineers and 2 interpreters
Ordnance Room:
3 engineers
No. 2 Room:
10 engineers and 7 civilians
I. Direction of Detector Section
Chief: 2nd Lioutenant SHINGO YAMANAKA
1. Peiping Corps: 3 engineers and 3 enlisted men
2. Tsinan Corps: 5 enlisted men
3. Chinahow Corps: 5 enlisted men
t>
TABLE OF THE EQUIPMENT EMPLOXED BY THE PEIPING
SPECIAL INTELLIGENCE CORPS
Names
Quantity
Remarks
Mational Receivers
3411
R.C.A. Receivers
Zenith Receiwer
Peiping
Philco Receiver
Radio Locators
1 at Tainan
(Special receiving
2
1 at Chinchow
sets, type 94, model 5)
11
Total
SECRET

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
ACHIEVEMENTS GAINED BY THE PEIPING SPECIAL INTELLIG NCE
CORPS IN DECIPHERING LNEY S CODED  SSG
Extents of Success
Categories of
Objectives
in Deciphering
Codes Used
Remarks
Northwest District Unable to decipher
None
Most information
Radio Station
was gained in
plain language
messages
Radio Station with Able to decipher
Unknown
Information was
Lanchow as canter, most of them
gained re traffic
mostly re traffic
situation in
Northwest area
Kansu Prowincial
Successful after
Unknown
Information gained
Gor't.
one month
here was useless
and disearded
Headquarters, N.W. Suedessful to a
Same code used for
Supply Districteertain extent
long period; most
of informational
messages deciphered
Yenan & its
Unsuccessful, es-
Category No.
Employed 25-word
environs
pecially those for
1 & No. 21,
unit Ransu
military operations
for political
propaganda
Central-Chitung
Successful after
category No.
Length of Ransu
Har Zone
one month
52, intended
1,000 words
for political
propaganda
Shansi-Chahar-
Successful after
Same as above
Chitung War Zone
one month
18th Group Army
Successful after
Same as above
one month
NOTE: The Japanese ware successful in deciphering some others, but the
category of the codes used in these was similar to those mentioned
above.
(3) Educatim & Training:
a. For the purpose of interception of wireless messages and
deciphering of coded messages, no special systematic education
has ever been given. Some general training was given the men
in Manking and was ant over to Peiping. All the education
and training needed was intended to be given the men while
SECRET

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
actually on duty.
b. Direction Detector. Thirteen non-commissioned officers and
soldiers were assigned about February this yeur for about
three months since then to receive special education in this
connection. The education, howver, was confined to the
treatment of the apparatus and measurement of the dist nce
as the men assigned to this task had already been educated
on communications. These thirteen men came from various
communications units stationed in North China.
Equipment for training. There xisted no special e uipment,
documents or books for the training.
d. Cases of success and failure:
1. Cases of Success:
Sometimes while military operations were in progress, the
Chinese forces used easily-decipherable codes for the
tranamission of important messages, with the result that
we gained access to important information. Sometimes,
again, the Chinese failed to codify the names of the
transmitting and receiving agents and naturally we could
easily find hints to their identity.
During the Honan campaign, l944, following cases occurred:
The Chinese forees used codes, which had been in use for
a long time and which the Japanese nad already succeeded
in deciphering. It was customary for General ChI. NG
TING-NEN, Commander-im-Chief of the lst War Zone, to add
his own signature and address in plain language, with the
result that this afforded the Japanese an easy hint as to
the whereabouts of the headquarters of the lst ar zone.
The wireless stations used by local militiamen in Honan
Province used to exchange messages among themselves asking
about their respective location and their intention of
future movemants and so forth, supplying us vith valuable
information.
2. Cases of Failurel
The Japanese were unaware that the Communist forces were
using the Ransu-type codes and that their coded messages
were interspersed with those in conversation type, and
were trying to decipher them in the same manner as applied
to those sent by the Central Army foroes. This resulted
in our failure to find out any hints at all to decipher
them.
SECRET

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
e. Actual Results Gained:
1. hile important coded messages could never be deciphered
by the Japanese, easier ones wers successfully deciphered.
However, the lack of strict discipline on the part of
the men working for respective radio stations resulted in
affording us many times with hints and valuable information.
Apparently the Communist forces were using three categories
of codes; (1) for military operation, (2) for political
propaganda, and (3) for transmitting messages and instructions.
As for their deciphering, the Japanese side was never
successful in deciphering that for military operations,
while they were in a better position as regurds the other
two categories. The respective radio stations apparently
used different kinds of call signs for transmitting and
receiving messages connected with military operations.
3.
As regards the actual results gained by the employment of
direction detectors, it can be said that the results on the
whole were entirely unsatisfactory, due, mainly, to the
fact that we had little past experience and very scarce
material to rely upon and also because we had to change the
call signs so repeatedly and at such ahort intervals.
The actual results gained as regards our endeawors in
deciphering the enemy's coded messages are shown in the
table No. 4 attached hereto.
Source: "Summary Report on Enemy and Non-Enemy Intelligence Organizations
n Taingtao", 10 December, 1945, BH/80. Evaluation: C-3).
S E C R ET

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
EXHIBITIV
HIDAKA ORGN
i. Make-up:
This organ was in complete charge of the collection of various infor-
mation on and from the third states as well as the connection with the
military and other intelligence organizations.
It was organized as follows:
Chief of the Hidaka Organ:
Colonel Takaaki Hidaka.
Peiping Office
The Hidaka Organ ———(
Tientsin Office
Peiping Office
Chief: Colonel T. Hidaka
Assistant: 2nd Lieutenant Shimura
Classification of Works:
1) General Affairs & Accounts:
Personnel
Miscellaneous Works
Guarding
Connection
Rations
Transportation
2) Guidance of White Russians
Warrant Officer:
Iamashita
Interpreter:
Watanaba
Promlems dealing with
ditto
Magahara
ditto
Nakanishi
Great Britain
Lance Corporal:
Urano
U.S.A.
Germany
Italy
France
Soviet Russia
3) Dealing with the Japanese
Sergeant-Majcr:
Sasald
Side:
Junior Emp.:
Idand
ditto
Sachimori
ditto
Ueda
ii. Outline of Activities:
As the main purpose of this organ was in the collection of inforzation
on and from the third states, there were no special intelligence agents.
Information was chiefly gathered by the contact of the members of the Organ
SECRET

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
HIDAKA ORGAN
with the nationals of the third states residing in China.
Information on the Soviet Union was mainly obtained through the
connection with the Sovdet people in China while efforts were also made to
amell out some information while assisting the white Russians without
nationality or during the c∞urse of issuing travelling certificates for
them.
Information on Great Britain, the United States, Germany, France
and Italy was gathered through the contact with the members of the German,
French and Italian Ambassadorial officers in China as well as by the trans-
lation of foreign books and journals, thus grasping the outline situation
in foreign countries.
As auxiliary means for supplementing the above information inter-
ception of wireless message tranamitted by Britain and the United States
was carried out.
For carrying out the above duties, approximately I50,000 FRB expense
was disbursed monthly.
iii. Training and Bducation:
No special training or education was given to the member of the Organ.
Accordingly there were no facilities and materials for the education
although general cultural books and journals published in foreign countries
were provided as many as possible for their general information.
iv. Success and Failure Experienced:
Since the Hidaka Organ was in Morth China, its object of activities
was chiefly concentrated on the Soviet Union, and as its Tientsin Office
had much opportunity to contact with the Soviet people information on their
movements were eollected to some satisfactory extent. But as such infor-
mation was only concerned with the Soviet people residing in Morth China,
almost no information on the situation in the Soviet territory was obtained.
As to the United States and Britain, various information was gathered
through then allied Germany and Italy and also France.
Information on the political and cultural fields of the foreign
countries was generally obtaßned through the translation of the latest
books and journals published in the respective countries. But the process
to obtain these materials was not systematic, the information thus obtained
was rather obsolete and not so much valuable as to be useful for the con-
fronting operation or for taking suitable measures politically and financially.
In short, the activities of this Organ was not so effective con-
sidering the relatively large number of personnel it held. (Source: The
Rehabilitation and Liaison Department of the Japanese Officers and Soldiers
Report entitled "Outline of Intelligence Collecting Machinery of Japanese
SECRET

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.95)
S EC R E T
HIDAKA ORGAN
Forces" 2 December, 1945.) Evaluation: C - 3.)
SECRET

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.99)
SBCRET
EXHIBIT
(1) Functions and Personnel of HID. KA Organization
Organization, functions and personnel as per attached chart.
Explanation:
1. The Organization is located in Peiping under the Chief of Second
Section of North China Headquarters of Japanese Army Forces.
2. The organization has been receiving orders from the Commander-in-
Chief of North China Forces up to end of war in order to collect various
information as follows: (Besides this the organization has been instructed
to supervise Non-nationals, the Chinese and Japanese residents.) Necessary
information and data to observe the actigities of Britain and America, and
to observe the anti-Japanese movements (both military and,political) of
Soviet Russia; general activities of Yenan, especially the propaganda
system and necessary information to observe their anti-Chungking policy;
military, political and economic activities of Chungking and its relations
with Britain and America; movements of Outer-Mongolia; supervision of
Chinese politicians and other personnel cooperating with the Japanese;
supervision of important Japanese elements; and observance of popular
feelings among other foreigners.
3. Sixty men worked under Colonel HIDAKA and about three hundred
indirectly in order to accomplish the above mentioned duties.
4. The most important system used in collecting information was
interception of wireless messages and this system was organized as follows:
Yenan Interception Unit; Fukuyama Reception Unit; Tominaga Reception Unit;
Italian Reception Unit; D.N.B. (German)Reception Unit; Broadcasting
Stations Reception Unit; and Chunghwa Aviation Company Reception Unit.
(2) Outline of Activities in Various Sections
1. The Commanding Officer of the organization gives instructions to
each section and collects the necessary information.
The examinaticn of and report on the information obtained is done
by the Commanding Officer himself. When reporting the information to the Army
General Staff in Japan, War Ministry, General Headquarters in North China,
Kwantung Army, Korean Army (Japanese Forces in Korea) and various armies
under the North Cnina Headquarters by telegram or in written report, he
must get authorization from the Chief of Staff of North China Headquarters.
2. The Urano Organization in Tientsin is directly under the command of
Colonel HIDAKA and collects information in compliance with the duties of
above-mentioned Organization.
All the information collected in the Urano Organization is
forwarded directly to Colonel HIDAKA in Peiping without being examined.
SECRET

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.98)
terefore, Colonel trano has no responsibility whateoever reguruin, the
v lue oi this inio m tion. The whole responsibility lies in Colonel
hiu lone, in the judghent of value of infom tion collected o the
nole organizations.
3. cutline of iniormntion collected through interce tion or wireless
messages:
collection of inform tion from various countries is done  inter
ception of broaucasting and news services. The Comandin. officer of the
organisation vives the instructions to each of the teception ections
regaraing the respective stations to interce t une have them ruport daily.
11 the inform tion thus collected is classifieu as belo. unu fileu so
 to be used as dat in the judgment of the situ tion
a) merican ..ffairs:
ar situation in sia
ar situation in Europe
U.s. Army (Strength, Name of units, Names of Staff
Members, armaments, morale, training, etc.)
U.s. ir Corps (strength, names of units, names of taff
Members, types of plnes)
U.. Navy (Organization, names of taff Members, Names
of ..arships, movement s).
..ar Industries
Political movement
Economic situation
Diplomatic relations with Soviet Russia
Diplomatic relations with Great Britain
Diplomatic relations with Chungking
Diplomatic relations with Central sia
nti-Japanese propaganda.
b) British Affairs:
Classification as above.
c) Soviet Russian Affairs:
Soviet-German är situation
nglo-Soviet relations
activities of Commintern
Strength, movements and kind of troops in Eastern Siberia
(movements of troops to or from European Theater)
Political situation in Soviet Russia
Ecomomic situation in Soviet Russia
Transportation situation in Soviet Ruasia
Transportation of supplies from U.S. to Soviet Russia
Transportation of arms and planes fromu.s. to Soviet Russia
nti-Japanese propaganda
Diplomatic movements against Chungking
Movements regarding Soviet aid to Yenan
SECRET

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.99)
CECRET
d) German Affairs:
Military situation
Political situation
Economic situation
Propaganda situation
e) Balkan Affairs:
f) Middle East, Near East and Central Asiatic countries
g) Chungking Affairs:
Operation
Organization
Air Forces
U.S. Air Forces and Army in China
Political activities of Chungking
Anti-Yenan movement
Economy and Production
Supplies through the India-Burma route
Commerce and airway networks
Anti-Japanese peace movements
Political and Economic activities against the Northwestern
Provinces
h) Yenan Affairs:
Propaganda within themselves
Propaganda against outside
Activities of Yenan Army
Economic situation
Political situation
Army forces, strength, organization and armaments
4. Yenan Reception Section (In Peiping and Tientsin)
The Yenan Reception Section in Peiping consisted of six men
including its Chief, using four wireless sets of eight or ten tubes. All
the operators excepting the section Chief were Chinese. The object of the
reception were Yenan Hsin Hua News Service, Propaganda broadcast of the
Japanese Liberation League in Japanese and messages in English sent from
Yenan to Chungking.
The Reception Section in Tientsin under Urano Organization used
the same system as in Peiping with one receiver and two operators.
5. Fukuyama Reception Section (Peiping)
This Section comprised twenty operators (all Japanese), two
receivers in Turkish language, and thirty other employees. They used one
set of high speed receiving sets and about eight sets of ten-tube receivers.
The object of reception were U.P., ..P., and Reuter News Services sent
from Chungking to merica, telegrams sent from Chungking to New Delhi and
nkara Broadcast.
SECRET

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.98)
6. Tominaga Reception Section (Peiping)
This Section was operating on messages (excluding code mess
sent within sovict ussia, especially messages sent mong the principai
cities, world-wide broadcast from Loscow, hebarovsk broadcast, Ul n-b toor
broadcast and messuges sent among the principal cities aiong the North-
Nestern China houte.
The section comurised six Japanese operators, eight Chinsse
operators, ten hussians, four mongolians and firty other Jupanese enp loyees.
They used one set of high speed receiving sets and ten ordinary
receivers.
7. Italian lieception Section (Peiping)
This section comprised fifteen ex-Italian Mrine operators
using four sets of their own receiving appuratus, working mostly on soviet
news services sent out from Siberia. ith one set they were t.kin air
transportation information of the Indo-China air route, na inrorm tion
concerning the passenger and cargo transportation by ir in Chine.
"8. D.N.B. (German News Ageney) Reception Section (Peiping
This Section operated with four Chinese operators, three Chinese
employees and three German correspondents. he object of rece tion as
concentrated on the nglo- merican information and in order to get the
information concerning the uropean situation, they mostly listened in to
the London Reuter news and partly to the U.P., a.P., and outer ens
Services sent out from New York and Washington.
9. Broadcasting Station Reception Section (Peiping)
They operated with six Chinese und four Japanese Listeners,
mostly catching the Chungking broadcast and partly listening in to the
broadcasts from Los Angeles, San Francisco and Hawaii, etc.
10. Chunghwa Aviation Company Reception Section (Peiping)
They worked on the information concerning the ir transportation
on the Indo-China route and the passenger and cargo transportation in
China, with fourteen Japanese operators and six Japanese employees.
11. Information Services by gents and Informers:
Information was available through the Agents and Informers in
Peiping, Tientsin, Tsingtao, Kalgan and other principul cities. The object
was principally placed on Chungking and necessary information to watch
the activities of Soviet Russians in North China. The org uiz tion and
functions of this system is as follows:
C RT

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
a) There are very few agents with a fixed salary, working
axclusively in collecting information; but in general the infor-
mation was made available through the organizations of the
Russian Imigrant Bureau, German correspondents and the Axis
organizations such as German und Italian officials etc. In these
operations the instructions were directly given by Colonel
HID. KA or Lt. Colonel UR. NO and there were very few occasions
when they used their men indirectly.
b) There were no instances whatsoever when the agents were
sent to distant places outside North China, as, e.g. Chungking,
Yenan, etc.
c)  Through the Imigrant Bureau. This Bureau consisted of the
Nhite Russian Imigrant Bureau, Hebrew Association, Lutvian
ssociation, Lithuanian Association and Polish Association. The
Central Organization to deal with these groups was situated in
Tientsin and local organizations in Peiping, Kalgan, Tsingtao
and Chefoo respectively. The Chairmen of the respective national
associations were charged with taking control ana directing
various nationals under the order of Japanese Military Authorities.
During this period, various meetings and conferences took place
and this naturally enabled us to listen in to the information
from various districts.
as the white fussians were mostly interested in the develop-
ments of Soviet Russia, their observations of Soviet Russia's
secret propaganda activities were comparatively correct, but,
other infomation was not so reliable.. The Russian Imigrant
Bureau in Tientsin was operating a newspaper called "Vozrojdenie
Azii" in Russian language for propaganda purposes. The Chief
Editor of this organ, PASTOOHIN, is an extreme anti-Soviet and
anti-Communist element and had a fairly correct juagment con-
cerning the Soviet information.
d) hite hussian Agents.
mong two thousand White Russians in Tientsin, there were
two hundred who were confirmed extreme anti-Soviet and anti-
Communist elements. From these elements twenty persons were
available as agents and they were very willing to cooperate with
the Japanese Authorities.
e) Utilization of the German News gency and German Correspondents.
The opinion and observations of the German news correspondents
were fully utilized.
Dr. Herbert Mueller, Director of the Peking office of the
D.N.B., had a personal taste in gathering news and information.
SECRET

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.99)
Comianding hglish perfectly, he personall, listened into the
euter newscasts nd wus extremely clever in judgin; the develo-
ments in the situation.
In the sume office were two other German correspondents,
Herr Lueckenhaus and Dr. bshagen. orking is the Dir ctor of the
Ne.. York office of the D.l.B. up till merica's participation
in the war, Lueckenhaus was well versed in merican affairs and
his observations on American situation were vorth. listening to.
Dr. bshagen remained in Lrgland more than ten years as 
correspondent and was well acquainted with the higher political
classes of ngland and naturally thought much of as an expert on
nglish and uropean affairs.
Dr. van Briessen, another German correspondent in Peking
was more or less of liberal tendencies. hile having  good brain,
he was considered of anti-German inclinations.
Mr. Cordes, still another German correspondent, Was a 'Chinese
Nisei', had a perfect command command of Chinese, enjoyed a wide
and extensive friendship among Chinese colleagues and had a taste
for Mongolian affairs.
Dr. Herbert Tichy, considered of a more or less anti-German
idea, travelled extensively in various countries as a newspaper
correspondent. His specialty was Indian and China's Northwestern
affairs.
f) Special Correspondent in Peking of the German Fuehrer's
Headquurters.
Siegfried Fulkrug, special correspondent in Peking of the
Fuehrer's Headquarters, was working under the orders of Lt. Colonel
Elhardt in shanghai, and was entrusted, among other things, with.
the sounding out of developments in Soviet Russia. Besides this
he was also spying on the situation in Japan and Chun king.
while Fulkrug was not considered as a big hand, he had a very
able subordinate in the person of Dr. Heissig, an anthropologist
and archaeologist, well versed in Mongolian tongue, who was
capable to a high degree of judging developments in Siberia and
Mongolia.
Fulkrug had his agents in Harbin, who gathered information
on Russia. This information was offered to Colonel HIDaK. in
exchange for some concerning Japan and so forth. Following
Germany's capitulation, he was considering dispatching his own
agents from Peking for the same purpose. However, this plan never
materialized on account of Japan's surrender.
g) Communications & Equipment
The HID KA Organization primarily did not intend to employ
to any large extent spying agents, nor did it send them over any
long distances, with the result, naturally, that the Organization
was not in possession or employment of any special means of
communication. The only method they employed was to meet Agents
SECRET

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.97)
at  secret place or else to obtain the necessery infon tion
by means of telephone, mail or by courier.
(3) Training rlans
The HID.K. Organization never gave any specinl tr inin to
its staif members and its gents. However, it ende voured to cre se
their efficincy along the following lines:
1. henever they committed any mist kes or blunders il executing
their appointed uties, they were called to pay due tuention to them.
hen they finished their uppointed tasks, judgment on their rssults was
given by reeponsible purties with a view to lettin  cone aware of
their merit or the contrary.
2. The staff members and agents were afforded ith op ortunities
to witness for themselves how the other organizations on similar lines,
of the rmy or of the newspaper offices, were functioning.
3. Impetus was given to bring to a higher level their personal
knowledge, common sense and so forth. For this they hud a special
fixed program for their education, subjects which com rised muthemctics,
foreign languages, physics, history, economics, history of iueclogy,
military science and so forth. Lessons on these subjects were given by
officers und able men among the staff members. And, for the euucation
of these officers, the Director of the Organization, Colonel hIo K,
took charge.
Emphasis was given on the education in Chinese language. They were
asked to take lessons at night schools or else at the rusidence or t chers.
For textbooks for these lessons, guite  number of docunentary recorue,
novels and other literature was employed up until the end o1 the r.
Following the tenin tion of hostilities, li of these were destroyed by
fire.
.ccording to the memory, principal mong these books were those
concerning the education of merican G-men, secret agents of Jupun,
German spying system education given t the Chinese ilitary c deny for
gathering informction. . book specially. recorded the ctivities of
internation l spies on Siberia-Munchuria porder ree.
(4) Expenditures
1. Officers and civilians workin for this Orgnisution received
salaries fixed by army regulations and did not get any spscial allowances.
2. Regular agents got salaries, according to their respective
abilities, which were supposed to be barely enough for a minimun standard
Living. The lowerst was 500 Yen FRB. They, however, were alle eu to
make purchases at sertain design ted Japanese agencies at loser prices.
The highest pay they got wee round 1,ooo Yen Fits.

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.92)
G
ton,ol,cc.
4ever  breurnte br1 y
tion, they rot -duation 1 p cnt in c st, I . in I.o
Yen . p.
5. Just prio to the temin tion or tie 1, 
expcniture s round , en., most1 ro
2p0301
employl.cnt or sone liaison personnel, for. int inin
with the chinese ind tlso fo kupin in cont t it
Itallan org ns.
(5, v.lu tion of Iniorm tion.
The ev lu tion of respective inform tion brout i. w.. rt ke
by Colonel I kA person Ily, under his own rorsi il.
This wis done on the foloin. progr un:
1.Comparison of v ious inform tion  t eru . unt
sources.
2. Getting in contact with similar organs mitl.in  r...
In wiry is made whether these have lso ot the s he ir on. io or
not, nd, if so, compare the accuracy or depe.denc. or it ti..
3. In case particular information is considered  xr
importance, oruer is given to a responsible person to en . nto 
ciroumstunces, in an endeavour to ascertain-the rli bilthee
information.
4. In deciding on the reliability of a p. rticul r plece of
information, the ability of the particular agent who prou ht it in w s
taken into consideration. Information was reported to responsible
parties classified A, B and C, according to their degree of rellability.
Any "rumour" or "propagandistic roport" was reported as such.
(6) Cases of Success end their Causes
It often occurred that valuable information which cme into its
hand lost it intrinsic value through its failure to accur tely evaluate
or through the delay in reporting.
As the cause for all this, the following may be considered:
1. Prejudices of the man who receives the information stood in
the way.
SECRET
G

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.75)
0
ticulnto brin in e. in or tion
4  or tlonce in he loymnt  use .  
hon te c uses  cnver ted bov., It 1 is consic ra the most
rior to the outor k or the nostilitice betvesn ussi.
 uen Japn  uoside urg tio rald 
co reporsiol u rters.
hemtion iu ne scoop to s  
COCRET

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.94)
054
Jp nese intelll ence rencics hve seen ctive in rsingt o since the
initi 1 1 uings by uhe A v. na rmy roops in 19e. The N v Landed
trce a vs before-the ary nd ue since the Landine morcised more
cntroi over the aunitr tion of the city th the. T N vy
a ar  ve been jeulous of each otherst rigts and hve not cooperated
too vi. The l ck of cooper tion has extended to the exel. e of
intelll gence inforn tion, and e d. hasgwithheld vilu ble Hot infomi
tion from the ot er. Hethous used by the various gencies ic huve
collected intelligence, varied somewhat, but in general iollowed a
pattern of aploy ins civilians directly to supervise the intulligence
tork, u havin civilian agents to work under the civilins tht were
employeu. he civilin mployee would oe under st ff ofricer if the
gency was  part of the armed forces. supposedly the staffofiicer
would be in charge, but uctu:l the person in ch rge would be the
civilin. Tis is especl y true of the N vl Intelli ee ction.
. distinction must be ma between Combut Inteliigence, General
Intelligence, and Counter Intelligence. These will be discussed
separately according to their separate functions.
HLTUICAL BACKGRCUND
ohortly aftor the my and Navy landed in J.nuary, 1938,
Intelligence gencies were set up by each branch of the ervice, and
by the Kampei Tai as well. The Naval Unit was known as the pecial
Service Bureau (Tokumubu), and the  rmy Unit as the Special Service Ageney
(Tokwnu Kikan).
The Tokunubu was established for the purpose of accelerating the
restoration of peace and order in the area. The Bureau had the
following Departments: Political Affairs, Harbor Office, Peace and
order (including Propaganda Section), Management of Enemy Property, and
Information. The Information Section was further divided into two
Sections; Chinese ffairs and Foreign Affairs. The Information Section
collected General Intelligence and Counter-Intelligence. lso the
Section censored the mail and telegraph communications of Japanese,
Chinese and foreign persons for the purpose of gathering information,
particularly relating to Anti-Japanese movements, or espionage activities.
In March, 1939, the Bureau was dissolved and its functions were
transferred to the KOAIN so far as Political ffairs were ∞ncerned,
and to the Naval Resident Office so far as Naval Affairs were concerned.
The Naval Resident Office set up the censorship duties as a separate
Section. The Information Section performed the same duties as it had
SECRET

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.87)
CLCRAT
under tr.e Buretu. In M.rch, 1940, the N. val .esident frice.=
abolished and all functions were tr. nsferrea to the peci 1 . v 1. e
rorce, 1singto. 1n 1938, th  e 1 I v 1  se orct (t er. 1t
the lst Combined Lnding rorce) h_a n intelligeice cctier( c.1
service -ep rtent, prircip   therin iit lii ene or 
n ture, nu tow.ter-int lii ence for tl. pu. or
the City. Detween 1940  194,no iufom tior ts  be
s so h t t e conpl t intuli sneect vie or th et. r.
Honcver it is knonn t1.t I. y4 It. div.cLio.1.
cectlons:
Chinosession to sok out wtiitere
oper tine for the chinese ventr 1 coverrent, or t e o wlsts
(I te to the securit, or the city. ince th i. v.I ts unt
ad cditions to ri lit in th. outlyin, 1 ne ., t! e  c lon 1so
Katnerec int lliel.ce to osist t use ex  ditione.
conomic--Guthered iniora.tion r.lating to pricfl. c.s
und tre wovemont of commodities. Black m rket activitles r i.vosti-
goted y uhe Consuler or the Chinese unicipal rolice.
Foreign ffairs Cection-To tscert in the ttitu e  e foren
pooal tion towurd the nir.
ne intelligenee ection lso contrelled contors i u the
Lssu nce of pussports. in 1943 it was decideu tn t tte int ili unce
section soulo concentrate on operationl int lligence,o tcooc
and Forg ffair ections were bolished.eo
v tr nsfurred to the ou Dofense vep rent, und the Cnooroli function
w. t up seprutely. The mission or the ection no. rel teu t
detection of any Chinese Central uovernment or oth oute rr ents
ithin e city, investigation of the theft of lavl. up, li, nd
opur tion1 intelligence of one outlying are (1 o h n,. 1f thie
cection had spare time it did ork releting to the cctivitius of forelgners
within tle city. The section continued in this manner until November
1944 at hich time the Section was abolished and Naval Int lligence
activities were reduced to a small scale. he Civilians connected with
the ection were dismissed and any functione were carried on by the
St if ufficer in cherge. The Navy relied on other geneies for y
information needed. About two months before the end or the r . (.)
K. AhL, keI was placed under the  taff officer and be beg n to
coliect infora tion relstingvto foreigners. (he offi.cer rs
concentratin, on information relating to soviet kussian citi ens.)
a

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.93)
t te tine of tie ett blishant o te, tre rs
expecteu to tr nsfer tl.e ctivities of its Specil serv_c
the no iN. The rmy, however, continueu to c rr. on wit. e c.
for  period of time. im , wout o te lunctions  
specil service gene,re tr nsferret to tn tucceur o te o ih,
The Greater Bast nsia Linittry. t t e tine of t: e tr nsfer, t o
set up an investigation section. The section s ll d dia not
achieve eny notable success. It ws most exclusivel conc r.eu i
information rel ting to tho-Comunist u  o
.activitius.
Combat inform tion  needed by  units in cont ct it. t.e
ney. (nemy refers generally to what the Jese call mt,
a nane which covered both the Chinese communist: nd the uerrill:
forces. It should be stated that most of the fi htin, . the ro. and
most of the intelligence collectea involved the Chinese canlwist
forces.) The Navy had detachments up and down th cost nu ese
detachments gathered combat information.
Most of the Combat Intelligence for the rmy was getrere by the
Intelligence Department of the Sth Inuependent ixed Brigde. e
Brigade had its Heudouarters at Taingtuo and oper td under the 4rd
Amy Headquarters at Tsinan, Shantung.
1. su plying the Brigade Headquarters witn all typos of in orn-
tion ooncerning the enomy, but particul rly comp t intorm tion.
2. Information as to peace and order in the are...
3. Information as to climatic c∞nditions.
4. Information as to topography and terr in.
The sour ces of information were as follows:
1. Various Chinese forces under Puppet Covernments.
2. For giving people certain advantages such as additional
rationing privileges, information was obtained.
3." Inhabitants of various areas voluntarily brought information.
4. The Imperial Collaboration Army was used as a network.
5. The Peace Preservation Unit, part of the Puppet Armies,
was used.
SECBET

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.95)
SCRT
General intelligence included econonuc mu political intelligence
 well  such inteli ence s was neceso.r, 1or the m intennce of
peace nd order itnin the city of Tsingt o. This type of intelligence
was of riar Luport nce to civilin etivities, nd lt ough the
, Nav d Gendarmerie gthreu thi type of inton tlo, it 
mer l turned over to civilin gelicies. he nu In wat founded
p.rtly to tke care of such oration, ctin. us it diu s un
avsory oo rd to the chinese ruppet dovernaent. There der Jpanese
oificl 1: in 1l p rts of the Puppet Government syst. These were
kept in ormea by the intelligence section of the ko.IN mu 1 ter by the
ure ter ast ..sia. inistry. Fluctuations in the v lue of old und
prices were investig ted. n ttempt is made to keep the  uthorities
avare of inything thet might uffect the peace nd order oi the city.
COUNT-INTLLIGLIC
ll intelligence organizations in Toingtao did Counter-Intelligence
work. t.the simplest, such work would merely involve the censorship
of postal matter, telegrams and nowspapers. division of the censor
ship duties was effected between the Nar and the Gendarmerle. The
former asswaed responsibility for all correspondence in .estern
languages; the uendarmerie was responsible for ustern languages. In
censoring mail, two factors especially were noted; obscurity of lauruage
nd fre uancy of correspondence. . list was drawn up of persons who
were suspected on either count and their mail was subject to the
closest censorship. Une Neval censor stated th t there were insufficlent
persons available to do a computent censorship job and th. t only the
mail of suspicious persons could be axamined. He furti.er st ted tht no
person had ever been arrested as a result of censorship. Newspapers
were also censorod but the fect that the local press was Japanese
controlled usually guaranteed harmlessness of content. Newsppers
cominfrom other parts of Chin, such as shanghai, were also censored.
During the war, à careful check was maintained on all occidentels
Living in Tsingtao. Those of the Germans who were reputed to be
nti-Nazi were placed on a "Black List", as were Russians, Jews and
other nationals who were felt to be politicallyopposed to the Japanese
system. fter the surrender of Germany it was felt necessary to begin
another investigation of German residents, with some emphasis placed
on diacovering possible agents of the German Government. Information
was supplied by informants. Some of these volunteered information to
persons whom they knew worked for Japanese Intelligonce, while others
received money either directly or indirectly from one or another of the
intelligence organizations.
The main effort of Japanese Counter-intelligonce uctivities was
directed it the nationals of ∞untries not at war with Japan, or, as in
SECRET

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.95)
0T
ue c.se of Frunce, oily pussively enaged. Close scrutiny was kept
of t..eir ovements and correspondence. hen one of thea w s aue in
sint o frou hanghi, for exuple, notice was iven by teler
of inn i1 to oe on the watch for hin. such notice would be iven if
an lin or manipulation of the foreign exchnge were suspecteu, us
well if esplonage  ctivities were indic ted.
1thouh it wus known that thers were many ugents, both of the
communists, unu of L1, I1 N- x (Mayor of Tain tao) in Tsin t o,
only a rel tively a  number were ever caugit. There were uost
invri bly santenced to death.
LLOTHODS
ith the Japanese Mavy and Army in control of Tsingtuo it was
u simple matter for them to obtain free intelligence. For exaaple all
aval contractors who supplied food to the American Fleet prior to
the outbreak of the war were agents of the Japancse Navy. Maval
contractors were told that they would be refused permission to go out
on the docks if they refused to ∞operate. The intelligence brought in
by such persons hud a very limited value. Generally they managed to
got copies of the ship's nows, plans of the day, and such infonmation
us could be obtained by emptying waste paper baskets on the ship. In
that way the movaments of ships could often be learned as well as such
inform tion ae could be found by chance on sarap paper.
Ihis axtortion method of gaining intelligence wus also practiced
on ll Japanese merahante. While there were certain Japanese civilians
who supplied information systematically and went to great pains to
obtain it, most of them attempted to furnish as much as came their
way in return for the privilege of obtaining a license, etc. One
Japanese broker was notorious for his activities, employing several
persons who acted in turn as agents. One of these was a white Russian
who reported on matters concerning his community.
The information supplied by such agencies was generally inferior
because the persons engaged in obtaining it were untrained. A somemhat
more satisfactory method was that of hiring Chinese agents. For
example, sevoral Japanese empleyed by Japanese Maval Intelligence each
led a group of Chinese agents who gathered information. The Gendarmerie
and the Consular Poliee had a similar arrangement. The agents were under-
paid almost without exception, usually receiving their wages in ether
forms than money. As a result they would beast of their powers as agents,
threatening to turn in various people if they did not furnish money fer
protection. All Chinese agents in the empley of the Japanese kmew eaeh
other and competed with eaeh other. Thie aystem of using agents proved so
unsatisfactory to the Nawy, that in June, 1943, (and in November, 1944),
SBCRET

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.94)
SECRET
they published a list of l their gents in a daily nerspupe: in the
hope of utterly discreditinthem.
Japanese methods were usually extremoly crude. For axample, no
security was observed as far as agents were concerned, partially
because of their large numbers. Chinese agents would have the n me
of the Japanese "Advisor"fer whom they were workin printed on their
cards. This was sufficiont to obtain for then free food and wamon
and usually money. hen investigating suspicious char cters, little
comnon sense was used as a whole, superfici 1 evidence being t ken
for fact. (Sourcel Summary hoport on neny und Non-Enemy
Intelligence Organizations in Taingtao', 10 December, 194), bH, 0.
Evaluationi B-3.)
色
SECRBT

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.95)
Exhibit
CHART #1
JAPANESE ESPIONAGE SYSTEM IN SOUTH CHINA
Liuchow
.I.C.
ABlatic Prosperity
Amoy
Command
Drgo, Canton
Swatow
Boutherm Command
Take Organization
Biam-Burma
Canton
Sam Foo
watow
Rnd kixped.
ranch
loshino Organization
Kuikong
adse Agency
Laval Sqn.,
Canton
(German)
Hongkong
aison
anton
pept.
Juchon
Matsu Organization
sth Air
ranch
Canton
China
oree
xpedit.
lankew
Kogand Organization
orces
Canton
S
mperial
qrs.,
3rd Army
ny
lanking
wangtung
staff
me Organization
qrs.,
Hqrs.
Canton
rokye
aiwan
command
Asumi Crganization
th Area
Canton
ommand,
13th Ay
cendar-
12
ankow
Shanghai
herie
Branches
3th Ind. Brig.
4 Battalions
wangtung
0th Army
2
engyang
Bth Ind. Brig.
Battalions
uen Tam
23rd Ind. Brig.
5. Battaions
LEGEND
wangchcwan
30th Division
2 brigo, 4 tt
Direct Supervision
unui
each
Exhibit
129th Division
2 rrig.
to dions
Liaison
Tamshui
each
VI
Assisting Lines
104 Division
Reg., 5 pattalions
Hoifung

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
EXHIBIT VII
JAPANESE-SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE GROUP FIVE PROVINCES
INFOIMATION DEPARTMENT. (SOUTH CHINA POLITICAL PEACE
PR.SERVATION PARTY)
SYNOPSIS:
The Group was developed in 1940 by General DCIHARA KENJItO,
Japanese Espionage leader who founded Japanese plainclothes espionage
system. South China Head Office established in Canton for espionage
system was designed to service the Five Provinces of Southern China.
The organization was under the control of Nanking WANG Regime and
Canton Main Office under direct orders of Japanese Puppet Secret
Service Headquarters in Nanking. The Canton Office Organization was
divided into Intelligence, Counter-Espionage, Political Intelligence,
Training, Finance and Administration Sections. The Group was
interested in ascertaining information concerning military targets of
the Allied Air Force in China, political agents, economie agents,
diplomatic relations and Allied indications possibly affecting China.
Group operated independent of other Japanese Intelligence Groups.
HISTORY:
In 1940, General DOIHARA sent an agent, Major General OKUB0, to
Canton to establish an espionage system for the five provinces of
Southern China. OKUBO established his headquarters in Canton, but
received his orders from the Japanese Puppet Secret Service Headquarters
in Nanking. At first this new agency was to be a seetion of the
Nanking Puppet Central Government Propaganda Department. However,
a few months after its establishment, it beoame known as the SOUTH CHINA
INTELLIGENCE GROUP FIVE PROVINCES INFORMATION DEPARTMENT, undor
Japanese supervision. Branch offices were established in Shanghai,
Sha Ping, Hongkong, Macau (2), and Kwangahouwan (2). Major General
OKUBO, FOK WING KAI, FOK WING KAN, were known to be the main leaders.
ESPIONAGE SECTION:
CHAN CHI KONG - Supervisor
Nine known agents and two suspected agents
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION:
TSUN CHI KONG - Director, ex-member of the Central
Government Communications Ministry.
Nine known agents and one suspected agent.
PROPAGANDA SECTION:
"Fatty" LAU - Director
Three known agents and three suspected agents.
SECRET

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.93)
SACRET
PRATIONAL DATA:
1. Msion:
The mission of the Seuth China Intelligance Croup is one
primarily of espiesage amd morale eperations. There has been
no indication of sabetage er assassination activities on the
part of kmown agents, although the training sahools included
demolitien instruction in their schedules.
From available information on the Group, their mission
was as follows:
Report om military movements in the South China War Zones.
" Ameriean Air Force and the losations and
streagth of fighter and bomber bases.
" intelligease ergasisatien of the Allied Ferces.
" Quartermaster depots, storage go-downs and
supply dumps.
" Allied camouflage systems.
" conditions and morale of Allied Foreds.
In addition, agants of the Group were fnstructed to earry
the dostrines of the Puppet Gevermment and to further the
measing of the Ce-Prosperity Sphere.
2. Peraal:
The heAdquarters Staff of the SOUTH CHINA INTELLIGENCE
GRour was composed primarily of edsested Chimese puppets whe
had at ene time er amother studied in Japan. Available
infermatien indiestes that the staff may have at ome time
beem indestrinsted in the dapasese matiesalistie ideals mhile
they were in Japaa. Back year a dapaness effieer of the South
TAA, DOI  .
The group leaders er ageats appear to have been rearalted
frem the tough alass of gangsters and gang Leaders in Canten
and Meagkeng. Castenese Chinese predeminate and mest of the
Leadere speak Eaglish.
The iaformants and lesser ageats were reeruited frem
the Lewer slass geagsters, desters, beskward silitary effieers,
dissatisfied politicians, fertume tellers, Leafers and
prestitutes.
3. Lesrritig
Availablé iafermatien indieates thst SOUTN CHINA CMOUP
ageats were reerited ealy threugh persesal eeatact with
mambers. A prespestive agent was reported te the group and

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.94)
SECRET
he was watehed. Propaganda was fed to him by a trusted
friend whe was a member of the group in order that his
reactions and aympathies may be observed. If the prospect
was found to be favorable, he was first placed on cuty with
the Puppet Police Foree so that his abilitiue coulu be
watched and he could be more complotely indoctrirated. he
was then aeked to work for the Group and was want to the
training school.
Iraining Schoole:
The training choole for the uTH n 
GRoup changed their locations quite often. The most recent
school was located at the Police Club on Tun: Ming noud in
Canton. Previously this sahool was held at both the whampoa
Military Acadeny and the old Chinese fir Force Club, and
was known as the Special Service Training veaaem.
Presideat of the training branck was Lt. Col. KUU
Wkl-MING who was the Chief Commander of the Police Depart-
ment of Kwangtung.
5. Traiaiac Presdure:
Spesial Traiaing was given from three to six months.
If the student was eapable he would graduate in the minimum
time of three meaths. Subjests taught inelude dialects,
customs and habits of lecalities, precedure of interrogation
and eross examinatiem, methods of ocmmunications, ideals of
cover and puppet indoctrinstion. Iastruction was also given
in the identificatien and use of allied weapons and radio
operation and repain. Imtructors were mostly puppet
offiials whe were Japanese returmed students. ot
Japanese intelligense officers were used as instructors for
peeial courses.
6. Priority:
Àgents were appeinted to an area just in advance of
Japanese attacks or right after. Lang term agonte were sent
to areas of military isportance of deep penetration. Agents
in oseupied areas had the right to c∞mtrol epium, gumbling,
prostitution and to muggle within certain areas.
7. P:
Agent's pay was from 200 to 800 dollars, Japanese
Military Ien. agents were allowed to muggle and squeese.
For certain operations, large suas were given in either geld
or silver. Informants were paid from 40 to 150 Military Yen.
C

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.86)
SC
COTer:
The main eever ased by leaders and agents in Free China
was that of a business man or doctor. Lesser agents and
informants took the eever of fortame tellers or refugees.
All agents entered Free China as smagglers. Couriers back
to oecupied areas used the aggling cever.
9. Comsitin:
Commieatiens were usually carried out by courier or
runner sarrying ceded messages in the form of letters. an
agent very seldem left Free China, but went near the border
and ased a maggling or ruaning merehant to carry the infor-
mation acress the berder.
The finanees for the Group were derived primarily frem
Puppet levies (70g), reseived frem the Minister of Propaganda.
Addisienal finasce was received from geods amuggled and from
Japanese military seurees (30%).
11. Gadea:
Little infermatien is available regarding codes used by
the Greup. Mewever, it has been learned that names of
eemmereial predusts held sigaificant ceded meanings. The
knomm eedes are as fellews:
Large sise tubes of teetapaste indieate B-29's
D-241
Small"
" Tuda sisters' brand hair eil "
P-4O
P-38'a
Amsther brand
treeps were referred to y names af metals. Eumbere ef
treepe were referred to by the mabero 1 to 9, Ladi-
eating thoneands.
The Growp had little ar nothtag to do, no Sar ao azakaage
of infermation is eenserned, with any of the other Japanese
intelligenee greupe. It has liaisen wita the Bavy aad the
was alee lited. However, the Greep ddd report y dapasese
Groep Pive Previsess Iafomation Departnent (Sesth Chins Pelitieal
Pease Preservatien Party), dated Septamber 29, 1945, evaluated B-2.)
0

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.97)
S5ChT
ExHibIT Ix - Aompei Tai at Taingtao. North China
The Gandarmerie was established in Tsingtao in 1938 and was
initially given a sphere of activity which extended to all of the Shantung
Peninsular, ast of Pc shan. Its objectives were stated to be maintenance
of peace and order as Military Police. Prior to September, 1943, it had
five sections interested in gathering information. These were: The Chungking
Section, which investigated the possibility cf Chungking agents being in
Taingtao; Communist Section, which investigated possibility of Communists
Agants in the city; Economic Section, which investigated hoarding on part
of the Chinese and gathered information about materials needed by the agency;
Fereign Affairs, which gathered information relatin, to foreigners in the
city; General Intelligence, believed to be a section which gathered informa-
tion relating to Japanese Secret Societies and rumors that might be spread.
In September, 1943, a "Special Guard Force" of eight battalions was set up.
One of these battalions was the MATSUDA Battalion and it operated in the
Taingtao area. At that time the Gendarmerie was directed to concentrate
on Military Police work. The Communist, Chungking and Foreign affairs Sections
were abolished and their duties were taken over by the MATSUDA Battalion. The
General Intelligence Seetion did from that time henceforth gather some information
relating to foreigners, but it was for the purposes of security and "Thought
Control" and not for counter-intelligence purposes. The Economic Section remained
sphere of activity.
The MarsDa Battalion was one of the eight component
battalions of the Special Cmard Force, which was also known as the
KO BUTAI. The avowed purpose of this force was to fight the Communists
and it was specially organised to fulfill this mission. Half of the
force was from the infantry and the other half the gendarmerie. The
theory was that the gendarmerie would investigate Communist activity
and the infantry crush it. Members of the battalion usually spoke
fluent Chinese (in some cases were actually Chinese) and would disguise
themselves as coelies and peasants. They had two primary missions: (1)
To enter areas held by the Coamunists in order to determine the situation;
(2) To mix in crowds in areas already held by the Japanese in order to
discover Communists or Communist sympathizers. Combat intelligence was
obtained by interrogating Chinese, both military and civilian, who were
fleeing from the Communist held areas to the Japanese held areas. One
detachment of the MaisUDA Battalion is reported to have operated in Tsingtao
under the command of Lt. MAEDA.
Sounc: "Summary Report on Enemy and Non-enemy Intelligence Organizations in
Taingtao", 10 December, 1945, BH/80.
EVALUATLON: B-3
SECRET

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.96)
 INT Iu N
TABL. OF CUNT.,NTS
Page-No.
L. The Japanese Fo.cin Orfice
2. Functions of the Foreig 1lioe ince 1937
45
A. Organization
3. Important Foints in Comlectio Itn Various sections in u.
Foreign Office
14
4. Embassies and Consulates in Cnina
17
5. Economic Control of China by Japanese mbas
19
A. Asia Development Loard..
20
B. Greater East Asia Ministry
23
6. The Japanese Consulate Generai in Shanehai, China
27
A. Organization
27
7. Activities of the Shanghai Consulate-General, 1932 - 1937 .
31
8. Activities of the Shanghai Consulate-General, 1937 - 1942.
32
9. Activities o1 tne shangnai Consulate-General, 1942 - 1945
33
Lo. Organizations under the Control of the Consulate-General
35
A. Doa Dobun Shoyin (Tung weh University
35
BLCRET
-2-

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.98)
SE C R ET
JAPANESE CIVILIAN ORGANIZATIONS IN INTELLIGNCE
INTRODUCTION
This Report, which emphasizes mainly the Foreign Service
among the Japanese non-Military Intelligence agencies operating in China,
not only relates the historical developments and changes of these agencies
from the time of the Pacific War until the surrender, but also lists
intelligence personnel, departments and functions. The organizations,
which were subordinate to the Foreign Service and played a part in the
intelligence gathering network of the Greater East Asia Ministry,
mbassies, or Consulates, are described in sequence after the above-
mentioned topics.
The Foreign Service Intelligence Section was the most
important pre-war information gathering agenay of Japan and it may
easily be said that in two fields it was far superior to military
or naval organizations; these were long range espionage and propaganda
in areas intended for occupation.
The Foreign Service initiated and directed such companies
as the Asia Development Board, Development Companies and the Anti-Opium
League and many other organizations which were created for one simple
objective - the exploitation of China's people, wealth and natural resources.
With its powerful control of the Puppet Government and its ever prying Consular
Police and Intelligence Sections, the Foreign Service was almost as independent
a force as the armies of occupation. This independence was one factor causing
the jealousy and frigid cooperation which existed between the Army and the
Foreign Service.
S E C RET

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.96)
R1
JAPANEA CIVILIAN CIGANIZATIONS IN INI LIGNCE
Shanghai, China.
14 June, 1740.
THE JAPANS FORSIGN OFFICE, ASIA DEV LOPMNT
BOARD AND TH, GREATER BAST ASIA MINISTLY
1. THE JAPANSE FOREIGN OFFICE:
The Japanese Foreign Office, also known as the Ministry or
Foreign Affairs, is the head department mithin the Japanese Goverrment fi om
which the mbassies originate. It is through these Embassies or Intelligence
outposts, located throughout the world, that the Foreign vilice derives its
importance as the non-military collectors of intelligence. It is very important
to realize that the collection of intelligence is not limited t only one
department or section of the Foreign Office. A study of inioralion available
tends to confirm that whether military or non-military the Jap nese system for
the collection of information is one of "mass collecting" rather tan
"specialized" collecting so the various departments or sections within
the Foreign Office and their Embassies are merely the breakdown for
centralised evaluation, recording and dessimination of infcrmation
received. For this reason the overall breakdown of the Foreign Office
is given in this report and witn such a better picture of intelligence
operation within this organization is realized.
In the past, and also during wartime, the Foreign Crfice
acquired personnel only by the individual's desire to join the organizatio...
In addition to obvious requirements (family, social position, etc.) usually
demanded, all prospective members had to pass an examination for one of three
classifications: Administrative, Diplomatic or Judicial. At this stage there
is no Foreign Uffice school where personnel are placed for further training.
Although all people are given a course in cryptography upon startin to work,
all personnel interrogated stated that they received their training by starting
in a clerical position and working up through the various departments, letting
practical experience take the place of any schooling. However, prior to Japanese-
American hostilities, it was customary to send many people to foreign countries
for periods of two to four years. Representatives of the Japanese Foreign Office
include diplom ts and consular officials of all grades.
2. FUNCTIONS OF TH FORIGN OF1 ICE SINCE 1937:
S ECT
-4

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.90)
(a) O 
In ?ne or nization1 the toreinliete.
o. the ecretarlat o he rentr, tur
the surope d sin Dar u, the Aa.rican ureu,  i tre
suru, theirde r,the re , u vto.
Department.-
vo.ersuveunt
variounvers tsittLln
1.trrite
Preonner
b. accountinSection
C. Archives
D. rele raphic.Codes
.freatis Sction
2. The ast hsia Bureau
(Three lSectlone)
. lst -ection: Handles affairs concerning
politics, economy and cuilure
related to Chine
B. znd Section: Hanales affairs concerninu
Japanese residents in anchoukuo
and China.
C. 3rd Sedtion: Handles affaires related to
Manchoukuo.
3. The Lurope and Asia Bureau:
(Three Sections)
A. lst Section: H ndles affair's related to
the Soviet Union and the
Near East.
B. 2nd Section: Handles affairs related to
the Continental countries in
Europe
C. 3rd Section: Handles affairs related to
Great Britain, its dominione
and over-seas possessions.
SECRST
-5-

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.90)
(1
.191
 Le ires re t
to the unu att o
amerina.
B.  ton: hle tf relec
to thet
c u ri-s.
5. The soun seas vureau:
(  )
 A. lst beation: Handles afraire concerning
4
politi s related to the
sout ern re,lon.
B. 2nd section: Handi s affairs concernine
economy anu culture related
to the Southern re. ion
6. The irade Bureaus-
(eix bacuions)
A ach of these six se tio work on
affairs related to trade with countries
in different areas. This bureau  as
ret.er inactive during wartime.
7. The Treaty Bureau:
(Three sectzons)
A. The three sections in the Treaty Bureau
divided the work covering affeirs conceining
treaties, legal problams involving foreign
countries, international conferences and
international administration.
8. The Investigation Department
(Six Bections)
A. These six departments were concerned
with the collection of informative material
in various fields, other special investigative
work and press and propaganda work.
SECHLT
-6

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.90)
二C.-1
4
Later son chw.ges bccurred concernin u.. iv.
of outi a-t vrou ect on of the Far in rrice,
out th divi lor  dut on the varicub our a  o the
ministr ranained pr ctically unarfected oy sun .
In tui: comect on it wu: stated that  ne orn called "
(ini ormatior epartaent) was created in he Sabinet ar und 1739
cr r ed with the uti s concernin for ign au vom stie i fo mation,
 ntment ana proparanda, but inasmuch.  u is er  rpned
to tave nelther suvordinate oirices abroad nor m an t keep ret.
L. taucn with Japanese officials abroad, the Inv stigetion Depart mnnt
o1 the ror ign tfrice re pined in chare of the press and propa .a
. and wt lniol.al or. work.or foreign countris.
Neitner la the steblishment or the Asis uevelopacnt
Duaru, wi icn w  ted in 1939, affect the ore nizat on of u.e
orelgn urfice to any appreciable extent xcept that the dutles
o1 the rirst section of the ast Asia Bur sau decreased sonew at
in scope, in spite f the  ct that official duti  cering
Ci.ind were most1. t ken ovei b the Asia Development Board.
The creation of the ureater wst Asia Miristr, in
roveuver, 1942, ho..ever, br ught aoout a great change in the
or uniza lon of the rore1gn ffice as the result of the new
ministry havin taxen over ractically all Juties relatod to
the cowntries in the ureuter tst nsia reglon. lo be more
exact, all effairs wnuer the jurisdiction of the mst nsia
sureuu anu the outh cus bureau, as well as part or the
affairs unuer the jurisdiction of the Treaty Bureau (i. e.
 os c cerning consular court. in China) of the roreign
Urfice, were transferred to the Greater sast Asia Ministry
with the result, that the organization of the Foreign Office
was revised to consist of the MINISTR's SCRETARIATE, THE
POT AFAI BURAU, THE ARTD CONOMY BURAU THE
PATY BORU and thé INV TIGATION BUR AU.
Of these different bureaus, the PULITICAL AFFAIRS
Bun Au was charged with such duties as had previously been
attended to by the Bast Asia Bureau, the Europe and Asia
Bureau, the wnerica Bureau and the South Seas Bureau, but
were not taken over by the Greater ast Asia Ministry.
Conaisting of seven sections, the Political Affairs
Dureau divided its duties among these sub-divisions
as follows!
SECRRT
-7-

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.93)
lst beetion: Gene l control of bureau arf in..
d sect on: Afiairs cencernin the uater t
Asle kinistry.
3rd section: affairs co cernn th: -oviet i n.
4th section ffair concerr rope
countries
5th sectlont ffairs concernin; Great pritai.
i cominion. n. overseas
possessions.
oth Section: nffair concernin Nort. Americ..
7tn Section: Aflairs co. cerning South. merica.
O1 the other bu,theY
In effect what hao previously Deen khewn theI
the ne name derivine from the fact th t foll win tle out ax
of the Greater Last nsia ar, af air: concerning tr ue wit.
forelgn countries decreased while the sane bureau became more
and more buay keepine in touch with various overnment cfis
in Japan in connection with effair: concernir. wartime -c nory.
Thus, the First section of the art me Cconomy bureau was charged
with general affairs concerning wartime ecolomy, while th. eco.
Section of the same bureau attended to aifairs concerning econ
negotiations with foreign countries (the only one mentioned was u.e
liquidation agreement with switzerland).
In the TRsATY BUR AU, the three sections previously in
existence were reorganized into two sec ions, the First Section
attending to affairs concerning conclusion of treaties and the
Second Section to affairs concemin legal questione involving
foreign countries and affairs conceming international conferences.
SECRLT
8

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.92)
二0.1
JAPAN ONLA
The InV. 11 h BU nU consi ted of three sect or.s,
he I I sec on bein charged with investigutlon work related
to all forein countri s o er th.n the Soviet Unlor, ue Second
jection uncert kin, inve tl, atlon conce.nin. the sov e. unlon n
the Thie oTy tiaire cern  the r
1or forein con.ption.
since 1942 the torei n Office continu d to Tunction witn
it orgal ization uivideu into various bure.ut - sections
describea above until au ut, 1y4s, when lne war cae i an
.d the ureuter nast Asia kinistry ceased to xist t.  resit
that the roreign virice resuned duties concernine the ureater ist
hsia region a it nad aone before the creation of the Greater ast
asia inistry. accorui gly, there is cood reason to belicve Wat
the organization of the Foreign Office has beon reviseu to some
extent. In tlis respect, however, no oificial report nas been
recelved b, the Foreign Office personnel in shanghai. Nor are
the press reports sutficiently descriptive to clariiy the present
organizations or the Foreign vifice, but all reports coabine to
ive an impression that the Foreign Orfice now consists of the
inister's secretariate, the Political Affairs sureau, whe Trade
Bureau, the investigation Bureau and the Control Bureau. The
Liaison affairs bureau for hain; the war, which was once
reporten to pe in course of organization as an extra-
ministerial uureau of the Foreign Uffice, seems to have
been made directly responsible to the Cabinet in accordance
with a later uecision. Under presont circunstances it appears
impossiole to get further information regarding the present
or nize ion of the Foreign Orfice or regarding the division
of personnel and duties amon variou: divisions and sub-divislons
of the same ministry.
Regarding the functions of the Foreign Office, the
foregoing paragraphs concerning its organization contain
several passing references. Upon further interrogation with
the Minister of the Shanghai mbassy, Mr. YUTAKA TSUCHIDA, 
separate and more detailed account, as was obtained, will be
given below:
SECRET

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.94)
(i) Previousl, the functions or the roreign Minirter
were learl defined in Article One of treir roreian f ree-
Offi wegulatlons,ne  r h e fore
Linister shall control execeton or oliticl iistr uon
rolated to foreign countriee, protectio. of J mese
commerce  foren countrie affr cocer
Japanet residents abroad ane direct and supervist u I matic
 cor ular officila". Ihe cume aruicle, it was
stated, also provided that "The Forein lnister shail
airect and supervice the ambascador Pierdpotentitar.
and voy xtraordinary in ancnouku. witi. re are to
such auties of the aantung Bureau t are related to.
foreign affairs."
(2) In 1942, however, the above provisiors co.cerning
the functions of the Foreign Minister were revised as the
creaticn of the Greater ast Asia wiristry caused the
greater portion of the Foreign Linist-r's prevlous functions
related to the Greater aot ..si. re ion to ve taken over by
the Greater ast Asia Minister, thereby automatically narrowing
the scope of the Foreign Minister's functions. n this
occasion the phrase "execution of political administration
related to foreign countries" (in Article One of the regu-
lations uoted above was revised to read "xecution of
political administration related to foreign countrius (excepting
the Greater East hsia region)". The phrase "protection
of Japnese commerce in foreign countries and affairs concerning
Japanese residents abroad" in the said Article was revised
to read "protection of Japanese commerce in foreign countries
(excepting the Greater East Asia region) and ffairs concerning
Japanese residents abroad (outside the Greater Sast Asia
region)" and the paragraph reading "The Foreign Minister
shall direct and supervise tho Ambassador Plenipotentiary
and Envoy xtraordinary in Kanchoukuo wdth regard to such
duties of the Kwantung Bureau as are related to foreign
affairs" was rescinded.
SECRET
-10-

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.96)
こRT
wit a view to unifying foreign policy, the Foreign
Minister was placed in charge of all purely diplomatic
affairs even if such wer relatad to countri's in uns
Greater Last Asia region. Aecordingly, the Foreign minister
was empowered to direct and supervise diplosatic nd consular
offie als within the Greater ast Asia region witn regard to
purel diplomatic affairs (such as affaire concerning conclusion
of treaties or ce emorial affairs, despite the  rovision
"execution of political atrinistratior related to foreign
countries (mceptin the Greater Hast Asi. r  ion)" s in
Article one of the revised Foreign Uffice official me ulations.
Therefore, the functions of the Foreign Minister ar
revised following the creation of the Greater ast Asia
kinistry may be defined as follows: (Note: Source states
that no ex ct guotation is possible as the revised regu-
lations re not available here at present).
The Foreign Minister controls execution or political
administration related to foreign countries (excepting the
Greater Last sia re ion), protection of Japanese commerce
in foreign countries (excepting the Greater East asia region)
and affairs concerning Japanese rasidents abroad (outside the
Greater ast nsia reglon). The Foreign inioter uirects and
supervises diplomatic cnd co.sular officials resiaunt in the
Greater Last Asia region witi regard to purely diplomatic affairs.
(3) However, is the war ended in August, 1945, and
the Greater East Asia Winistry was supposed to disorganize,
all duties that lad been tken over by the said Ministry from
the Foreign Office were transferred back to the latter
office. accordigly, Article one of uie Foreign Office
Official Regulatiens must have been revised for a second
time. There has, however, been no confirmation of such,
but source believes that the original text of Article
one of the Foreign Office Ufficial agulations has been
made to stand again.
CT
-11-

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.94)
S.T
CIVILIAN OGANIAIION L INTL IG NC
As may be clear from the account given above, all
diplaatie ana consular officials in China are res onsible
to the Foreign kinister and are subject to the latuer's
directiol anu supervision since the recent, open disoreenization
or the reater wast noi ilstry, in the s e y s
they had been until the creation of the now-defunct inistr
some time go. whilte the ureater ast asia inlstr,
was functioning, diplomatic ana consular officials in
China were subject to direction ana supervisicn arerautly
by the Foreign Minister u the truater st Asi
Minister at the same time as fcllows:
(a) They were subject to direction and
supervisis. oy the roreign minister with
r-garu to auministrative afrairs relatel
to pure dipiomacy, and
(b) subject to directlon anu supervision o
the Greater ast nsia winister with regura 
affairs concerning polities, conomy .d culure
outside the seope or pure diplomacy, wil te
diplomatie anu consular criicials were in ciind,
(c) Came under the supervision of the Greater
Last nsia inistry as rar as their personmel
status wae concerned. The required cxpenuiture
for these offici was also looked wter ty the
Greater Last sia Minister.
At this point it should de mentioned thet one oi
the most important intelligence collecting agencies connected
with the Foreign Urfice is the Uffice of the military Attache
and that of the Naval attache. These offices tppear t. vork
as a part of tne Forcign Office, put actually they orly kork
with as they are responsible for tieir missions tirough their
respective branch of service. To emphasize the importance of
these posts in China, the military Attache in Nankin. mbassy
was also the Vice-Chief of all Japanese Military Forces in
China holding both positions concurrently. Previous1.
General CCHIAI was Military Attache. He was relleved by
Major-General MaI in the sprin of l944. The sale situation
SECT
-12-

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.97)
SCI
 CIVIAN U GANLAI N IN IN I N
existed with the Naval Attache, Rear-Admiral OA..n, mo
was also Vice-Chief of Naval Operatlons. Therefore, the
Military and Naval Attaches in China possessed the equivalent
rank of Minister and the Minister or Ambassador aid not
exercise any real authority over them. In other foreign
countries the Minister ranked above the Military und Naval
Attaches. The military Attache' office appeared to take
a broad interpretation of their scope of duties, which was
defined mainly as the collection of military intelligence.
This office was known to be responsible for the collection
of secret intelligence, interviewing agents, directin secret
activities, collecting political and economical inteiligence,
plus other military types of information such as targets and
battle orders. Further details as to operations by the
Attache's office were not admitted by any persons interrogated.
Other Pertinent Statements Abstracted during Interrogations:
The Third Bureau of the Japanese Imperial General
Headquarters was the highest organization among all
intelligence and infomation offices. All other
offices such as the ilitary Intelligence, Naval
Intelligence, Military Special Service Section, Military
Attaches, Naval Attaches, Foreign Offices and the Greater
East Asia Ministry were responsible to the Third Bureau.
It is stated that this Bureau had a great number of members,
but sources can make no approximate guess. It was admitted
though that every intelligence organization had at least one
member appointed to it by the Third Bureau. In the case of
the Foreign Office, or Japanese Embassy to China, the Ambassador
was appointed to be responsible. to the Third Bureau. Therefore,
it is fairly safe to assume that all important figures in
the Japanese Secret Service or Intelligence work belonged
directly or indirectly to the Third Bureau.
The Third Bureau was always very powerful in any area
because they issued orders in the name of the Commander-in-
Chief.
SECRET
-13

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.96)
SLCALT
JAPAN L CIVILIAN UNGANIN IN IN IG NC
The Third Bureau also maintained a school in Nanking,
training men for General DeIHAkA's Special Service Unite.
The course lasted ten months with classes averaging beteen
150 - 200 men. Source states, one of tne main subjects taugt
was the Chinese language. All students were nListed men in
the Japanese Army, but upon. graduation these men alwys worked
in civilian clothes. The school was "set-up" anu operated as
an Army detachment 'and gave no appearance as bein a school.
3. IMPORTANT POINTS IN CONCTION ITH VARIOUE SLCTIONS IN TH
FORIGN OFT ICE
The Financial Section of the Japanese hmbassy in Shanghai:
The Chief Secretary of the Financial Section was Mr. S. HAhIMOTO, who had
a staff of appraximately  people working under him in the Embassy. Tris
man, during interrogation, finally admitted that his chief duties consisted
mainly of advising Japanese banks on financial matters. These matters were
as follows:.
Approval for loans to be made to Japanese people;
Approvals and suggestions of loans pertaining to
business firms, (these firms were the majority of the Japanese
cover organizations) and funds for their operations were
allocated through the above procedure.
The Foreign Office Intelligerce Diroctor of the Japanese
mbassy in Shanghai was Mr. K. OKAZAkI. This man states his work consisted
of intelligence pertaining to international politics. his chief sub-
ordinates were S. OGATA, for Russian matters, and S. OTA, on all else;
each of these men had a working staff of approximately 25 people. Reports
from this office were dispatched directly to the Foreign Office
Headquarters in Tokyo, known as the "KASUMIGASEKI", (this name
has the equivalent meaning as No. 10 Domming Street, eta)
SECRET
-14

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.98)
CRT
JAPA CIVILAN ONANIATIN IN INT IGNCE
To illustrate the close connection of the kinister with all
wie varrous working departments of the Japanese abassies in t.eir respect ve
localities, each Minister was given the privilege of selectinn and making his
own appointments among his personnel, placing them where he thouht they were
best yualified. All work submitted from the various sections went out under
his name. Key people interrogated, tated that no dissemination by one embassy
office was made to any of the other embasaies, i. e., all reports flowed in to
Tokyo and received further dissemination there. These people further stated
that to their knowledge little information was ever received from German ofiices
in this area, but the German offices tried to cultivate them for the Latest
information.
The Russian Affairs Section in the Japanese Consulate
General was composed of Vice-Consul NURAK WA and a student-interpreter,
AIZAWA, (who was transferred to the Japanese Consulate in Manchuria in
July, 1945, and no successor was appointed). Soon after MUtAkA.A reached
shanghai, the Greater East Asia Ministry was established and he was trans-
ferred from the Foreign Office to the new Ministry. The Greater Last Asia
inistry was not directly interested in the intelligence activities of the
Hussians and MURAKAWA was ordered to carry out the collection of purely
local information, with an annual budget of  10,000. Thereupon, con-
sidering the allotted allowance, the work was divided into the following
three catagories:
(1) Collecting Russian publications both in
Shanghai and from Moscow such as newspapers, magazines
and books and getting materials relating to political and
economic questions.
(2) Investigating movements of Soviet citizens
as well as White Russians in Shanghai.
(3) Collecting rumors relating to Russian affairs.
The above work was entrusted to the following persons:
(a) Ár. A. A. POURIN
No. 7, Macgregor Road, Shanghai.
(b) Mr. K. KAZAKOFF
No. 76, Route Paul Henri, Shanghai.
However, source claims it became almost impossible to
prosecute the work due to the abnormal high cost of living early this
year. Thereupon, the Greater East Asia Ministry granted and forwarded
upon request of the Section the sum of  100,000 in March, 1945, which
enabled the section, for a few months before the surrender, to pay
POURIN a salary ranging from CRB $200,000 to CRB $300,000 monthly,
while KAZAkOFF was given the limited amount of CRB $50,000 monthly.
SECRET
-15-

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
JAPANISE CIVILIAN ORGANIZATIONS IN INTELLIGENCE
MURAKAWA was transferred to the Information Section. of the
Japanese Embassy Office, Shanghai, in July, 1945, and there continued the
work he had been following until the formal surrender of Japan in August,
1945.
From a separate Chinese source the following info mation
was obtained and is given in chart form below. Source states that one
or two members fron each section listed formed an Iatelligence Section
in the Japanese mbassy. The Japanese who were interrogated would not
admit that such a section existed, but considering the deliberate vagueness
and circular answers given to such questiors there is a tendency to raise the
evaluation of this separate report.
INTELLIGNCE SECTION
OF JAPANESE EMBASSY
1965
ARMY LIAISON MAVY LIAISON ANTI-BSPIONAGE
GERMAN
CHINESE
SECTION
SECTION
SECTION
SECTION
SECTION
S. KUROKI
Sec1 FUKUMA
Sec: SHIMIZU
Sec: MAKABAYASHI Vice-Consul:
MAEDA
Sec: FUKUI
Sec1 FJUINARA
Sec: SATO
Insp: YUASHA
FURUKI,
HAYASHI,
HOZAKI
-16
SECRET

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.92)
U.
Set Uh
SN MURAK
HU
ins,:
-. 1terreter.
hITA
AND CONULAT IN CNA
I IN ChINA Nanking
Ambassador: TAN1
BASSY OFFI
A.SHANGHAI
Consulate-General
Ainister: TSUchIDA
Snanghai
Suchow
Hangchiow
Nanking
Hankow
Kindang
Pangpu
uhu
Haichow
B. POKING
inister! KUMTO
Tai Yuan
Shanghaikwan
Peking
Tanshan
Tientsin
Tanku
Tsingtao
Taitung
Chinan
Chantien
Kaifeng
Shantau
Chinfu
KATUNG
Kalgan
Shihchiachuan
MinisterI TAsHIRO
uiyuan
Pactau
0
. KALGAN
Kwantwng
Aomen
Linister! HACHIRI
Hsianen
haikow
SECRET
-17-

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.85)
JA.
naer
o1 xinister
1110
ns.l.or
PRS
C.MUN
AG.ICULTUNAL
N.L AFF
SCTN
S.C11oN
COnL KUNK.
FNG
MK
A MINIS IAATIV.
FINANCE
In
SECTON
CRCILS
HASHIMOTO. S.
-Press
-Police
ailwa,8
-banke
ood-ractolles
-ison
vinema
--ducation
teamsips -Currenc -Fieh r inin,
Radio
-Hygiene
-Air Lines
Cotton
-Cultural
-Telegraph
Orgs.
-Radio
No. of mployees:
20
20
30
20
30
20
SECRLT
-18-
9

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.92)
5.   OF HIN  
The following char e tat submitten on
reli source
Ministr, for
Foreign fro (roky)
Departrent for
Department for
Department for
ast Asia
uropan
American
Asiatic
DeveLopment
affairs
affairs
Affairs
soard
1938-1942.
Mimu-y for
Great Last-.ei
1942-1945
Jupanese -mbasay
for China
Orlice o. Japanese Embasay
Office of Japanese ubusay
in Peiping
in shanghai
North Uhina Jevelopment vompany
Central China Development Gompany
L. North China Communications
 1. Central China hailway Company
Company
2. horth China Telegraphic Cumpany
2. Central China Lectrical
3. Norn hina Mining Company
Communications Company
4. North China voml mining Conpany
3. Con ral Chinining Company
Central China lectric & ater Co.
5. Centr 1 China t amship Company
6. ainan Conl nin Company
7. China-Japan Trade Associ tion
. Central China ea Products Company
9. Centr 1 Chins Lobacco Leaves Company
SECRET
-19

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.86)
   N
Lo. Centranret
.Prouct
12. Sentr1 Chine
.
1411
15. Nippon Fat.u.t .
lo.centr
17. IntrCrex
18.   
19. Contr 1 China at Pr. = Co.
Numerous Lnformant. ave advised that the Japanuse mb scies
lelieu to a gr at extene on their economic arms, te lo.t.  evop 
Coany o the ntrel C.ina vlopent ompany, f. t . I 11. u..
AASIANT 
According to source the ukouchiao L unt, whi cok
place on 7 July, 1937, rapiuy sprcad hostilit uver an i cre-.
wide area, despite the "non-aggravation"  licy 1.lowcc  e
Japanose overnnent and the Japan se Army Had to cupynou only
North China, but also many points in central and soucn Cnine. In
the meantime, efforts werede by several Chine. he
occupied areas to form local governments to tide ver the
transitory period. Jeein this, the Japanese a or ties
considered it imperative to r nder positive support to such
orforts with a view to protecting and furt erin the elfare
or the Chinese people. It is 1or this purpose that ih
eptember, 1938, a plan was mooted in favour or inaugurating
a powerful organ co-orainating military and government
organizations, hereas, in China there had b en no
official argan directly responsible to Tokyo excopt
those belenging to the Foreign Office, 1. e., the embassy,
consulates-general and consulates.
SOCRET
-20-

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.94)
JCnI
This pan was suported stro yb  aa
government circhs, but te.e Iso s a mall rou veh e
opposins it. Ie latter  i  t t, inoteat or mxing  iitar.
and government alfairs, ri departments of the uvernnent
shoulo detail large civilin personnel atten t rt
to thina, thereoy enlarging and strengtnening the structure of
the Forel n ffice. the resignation of General AU.
as Forei n lnister tooklace at this juncture on accoun  uhis
question.
The origi.al plan, nowever, continued to be su ported
anon influential circles centering around military personalities
and fin lly the Asia Devalopment Board was inaugurated in the Cabinet
in April, 1939.
The Asia Development Board was, as may be clear from
what has been said above, an organ in which the military and
the Government joined forces with ailitary personnel forming
its nucleus and wiu. various civil service ofrices supporting
it fo. the purposo of effectively dealing with the China problm.
Naturally, the Foreign Orfice and the Asia Development soard had
different duties to attend to in China, the fo mer taking care of
what little diplomatic affairs there were, besides affairs concerning
Japanese residents in this country. All other important affairs,
such as support to be given to Chi.ese domestic politics, solution
of economic probleme in China and cultural cooperation to be effected
between Japan and China came under the jurisdiction of the Asia Develop-
ment voard and not to be overlooked, also the collection of information.
The personnel of the Asia Developaent Board in Tokyo
consisted of the Premier as President and the Poreign, War,
Navy and Finance Ministers as Vice-Presidents. (At the time
of the organization of this Board, Prince FUIMAno KONOXE,
HACHIRO ARITA, General GN UGIYAMA, ACMiral MITUASA TONAI,
and OKinORI KAYA were in offige respectively as Fremier, Foreign
Minister, War Minister, Navy Minister and Finance Minister).
Under the President and four Vice Presidents of the Poard,
Lieutenant-General YANAGAA was appointed Secretary-General,
Major General SuzukI as Chief of the Political Department,
HINROKURO HIDAKA ( of the Foreign Office) as Chief of the
conomic Depertment and Dr. MATSUMURA (medical professor)
as Chief of the Gultural Department. Of these three departments,
SZCRET
-21-

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.92)
the Potiticar Deptrtmeft wat consicered the center
systm, Its three section cuiefs were sent irom the wmy, t
Navy elu the roreign vffice r spectivel. Tee
uhe  evelopment soard, clucing the cretar-uene,
had t oe reshufiledveial times, but the distrit
offices mon various government departntnt raane u ed.
In China the usia Jevelopment Deard estauthed the
North China Liaison Department at Teking, te Cent.  n
.n Departent at hang ai, the angchiang ason
vepartment at Kalgan and the noy Liaison epartent at
. f these four olfices, the orfice at Pekin,
a branch at Tsingtao. These offices were headed by aty
and Mavy officers in active service as follows! The orth
China Liaison Department was heaued first by Lieutenant-
ueneral KITA, next by Lieutenant-General MI K..u ther
by Major General sHlAA, Vice-Chiefs bein first Major-
General NMoTo, next Major-General MIoKA (teiore promotion)
and then Major-General oA.
The Central China Liaison Department Has 
Vice-Admiral TsUuA and next b. Vice-admiral UTa, wIt. an Anay
officer serving as Vice-Chief, which post was first occupied
by Major-General KusUui0, succeeded by Major-G ia,
Major General INoUY and Major-Gen ral IChIAI in the oruer named.
The Mengchiang Liaison Department was Lheausu iist by
Lieutenant-General SAKAI, next by Lieutenant-tener  TAk iTh
and then by Major-General Iwa AD; no Vice-Chief was appointed
for this office.
The Amoy Liaison Department was first headed by Vice-
Admiral OTA and later by Vice-Admiral FUKUDA, with no Vice-thief
appointed as in the case or the Kalgan office.
The branch office at Tsingtao was headed fi st by
Rear-Admiral SHIBATA, next by Rear-Admiral" TADA and Later by
another Naval officer.
SACRET
-22-
a

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.94)
U.T
111C
Jasas.
acn of these liaison depertments was divided into
various bureaus, whict. were l aded by officials repretentin
the Foreign Uffice, the Finance Ministry, the Comaerce nd
Inmstry inistr,, agriculture and Forestry Ministry and the
Comleations inistry of the Toryo Government, each attending
to dutles in which he had been well versed at the u v rm ffie
Laa ori inally occupied.
From the above description of the organization of te
Asla vevelopment soard, it may be clear that in this orcan the
army and the Navy formed its nucleus with varioue civil service
departments of the uov.rnuent rendering necessary cooperation.
Thus organized, the Asia Dovelopment Board continued
to iunction in paraliel with the Foreign Office in connection
with the China pr blem until November, 1942, when the ureater
ast Asia inistry was Lugureted to supersede it.
B. GATATI.NTRY
accordin to source, during tre first several months of
the Greater bast asiu ar, which started on 8 December, 194l, the
areas occupied by the Japanese forces rapidly grew larger. The
situation tius crcated made it imperative not only for Manchoukuo
and occupied China but also or te southern countries to strengthen
uefenses in a spirit oi mutual assistance as member nations of what
was known as une urcater ast asia Co-Prosperity Sphere. In view of
this situation, the opinion was mooted in the Tojo cabinet between
August and Soptember, 1942, that a new Ministry should be inaugurated
with the onject of renderin effective assistence to the "co-prosperity"
nations, instead of leaving the Asia Development Board and the Foreign
Uffice in charge of such matters. This opinion was opposed by a group
of men, who, as in the case of the previous plan calling for the ereation
of the Asia Development Bourd, held that it was more advisable for
diplomatic reasons to enlarge the scope of the Foreign Office service so
as to cope with the situation.. It was in this connection that the them
Foreign Minieter TOG0 had to resign his pörtfolio under the pressure
brought to bear upon him by the majority of Cabinet Ministers who
favored the creation of a new Ministry. The new Ministry project
made rapid progress and in November, 1942, the Greater Last Asia
Ministry was inaugurated accordingly.
SECRET
-23-

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.94)
CCALT
The areas which came w er the jurisdiction oi the
newiy-created inistry coveran thc so-called ureater st nsi
Corotperitions,incloukuo,
Frencn Ldo-China, aila, Durme, the Philipin  t.
Souti Seas region under Japenese mndate. In Tokyo th ur- ter
-ast asia ministry took over the relevant aftaire that 
previously been haniled by the Colonial Affairs iisry 
the anchoukuo Affairs Board. Leanwhile, the Foreign Iice
cuntinued to function as it had done before gith. regaru to
the foreign cowtrics cutside the Greater bast Asia Co-
Frosperity Sphere. As far s th. Co-P osperity nations
were conceined, the Foreign minister was to cirect u supervs.
unose ofrices. ofr the Greater ast Acia Ministry,  t wer ated
in those countries only with respect to purely diplomatic ai irs;
li other affairs were attere t  the Greater st si nister
and all officiale with duties abroad in these countries belonged to the
Greater ast sia inistry.
In China all offices proviousl, ionging to the For ian
Uffice (including the embassy, the onsulates-gener) nd the
consulatos) were combined with the local orne . the Asi uve opa nt
Board into new ofricil institutions under th. ssor .
his embasay in Nanking. The new of fices thus openeu inclu eu four
ambassadorial offices located respectivl at P, Aan,
hanghai end Canton, with the scop: of th ir jurisuiction xtending
over North China, Mengchiang, Central China ana Souti China
respectively and were invested with authority to direct nd
supervise the consulates-cener l and coi ulates in  ir res ective
areas.
In Manchoukuo, Thailand, Burma and the PriLippines,
Japan established an embassy at the capitel of cach country,
while in French Indo-China she opened what was called in
Japanese "TAISHI-FU", meaning the Ambassador's office and
through this office she kept in touch with the Fronch Indo-
China authorities until France declared war on her.
SECRET
-24-

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
PANESE CIVILIAN ORGANI ATINTIONS IN INTAL.IGENCE
The personnel of the Greater East Asia Ministry in
Tokyo included, as Minister, KAZUO AOKI, succeeded by MA ORU
SHIGMITSU, SHIGNORI TOGO and again by MAMORU SHIGMIT U in
the order named, the latter three holding the Foreign portfolio
concurrently, as Vice-Minister, KUMAlCHI YAMAMOTO, succeeded by
SHIMPEI TAKEUCHI and AKIYOSHI TAJIRI in the order named, a Chief
of the General Affairs Bureau, SHIuP.I TAK UCHI, succeeded by
GIRYO ANDC and ARATA UGIHA A in the order named, a Chief of
the China Affairs Bureau, UZUhIKO USAMI, succeeded by AnnTA
SUGIHAnA and UEHATSU UMKITA in the order named, as Chief of
the Manchoukuo Affairs Bureau, T HIo DuAYOSHI, succeeded by
MICHIO YAMAKOSHI, as Chief of the Southern Affairs Bureau,
ITARO MIZUNO, succeeded by YUTAKA ISHIZANA and as Chief of
the Trade Bureau, YAMAMOTO.
The Chiefs of the Greater East Asia Ministry offices
abroad included, as Ambassador to China, MAMORU HIGMITSU,
succeeded by MASAYUKI TANI, as Chief of the Ambassadorial
Office at Peking, Minister Lieutenant-General KIYOSADA SHIOZAWA
succeeded by Minister Lieutenant-General SAN TAKA KUSUMUTO, as
Chief of the Ambassadorial Office at Kalgan, Minister Lieutenant-
General IiASAKI, succeeded by Minister Major-General YASATO, as
Chief of the Ambassadorial Office at Shanghai, Minister AKIYOSHI
TAJIRI, succeeded by Minister UZUHIKO USAMI and Minister YUTAKA
TSUCHIDA in the order named, as Ambassador to Manchoukuo, General
ULETSU, succeeded later by General YAMADA, as Ambassador to Thailand,
TIJI TSUBOKAMI, succeeded by KUMAICHI YAMAMOTO, as Ambassador to
Burma, RNZO SAWADA, succeeded by ITARO ISHII, as Ambassador to
the Philippines, SHOZO MURATA and as Ambassador sent to French Indo-
CHina, KENRICHI YOSHIZAWA, succeeded later by SHUNICHI MATSUMOTO.
Thus organized, the Greater East Asia Ministry
continued to function until the latter part of August,
1945, when following the end of the War, the whole
organization supposedly became defunct and all its
personnel Teverted back to the Foreign Office.
Until this time the Greater East Asia Ministry had
representatives every place that the Foreign Office did. One
source states that the Greater East Asia Ministry's Chief aim
was that of supervision over the Puppet Governments.
SCRT
-2-

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.98)
SLCRET.
IVILIAN ORGANI AILOIS IN INTLL IULNCL
During the last year of operation and until August,
the Greater Last Asia Ministry was composed of five main
tments. These departments were sub-aividea into sectons
llows:
BURAU OF GNERA AFFAIRS (General matters
concerning economic.
political and cultural
affairs).
General Section
Section of Economic
Section of Research
Affairs
Section of Inspeation Section of Traffio
Affairs
BURLAU OF CHIN SE AFFAIR (Economic, pelitical and
cultural affairs relative
to China
General section
Section of financial
Section of Commercial
Affairs
Affairs
Soction of Traffic
Section of
Affairs
Agricultural
Section of Administrative
Affairs
Affairs
BURLAU OF MANCHURIAN AFFAIR (Economic, Political and
Cultural Affairs relative
to Manchoukuo
General Section
Section of migration
Section of Economic
Section of Education
Development
BURLAU OF SOUTH SAS AFFAIRS (Economic, Political nd
Cultural Affairs relative
to South seas Area).
Section of Political Section of Administrative
Affairs
Affairs
Section of conamic
Section of conomic
Affairs
Development
SECRET
-2-

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.98)
SE C RE T
ANES& CIVILIAN ORGANIzATIONS IN INT-LLIG..NC
BURAU OF TR. DE (Affairs concerning foreign trade).
Soetioh of Planning
Soction of Importation
Section of xportation
It should be pointed out again that of the five main
branches composing the Greater East Asia Ministry, each of these
branches had its own research section (investigation or intelligence),
and there were times when these sections handled political,
economical, military and mocial intelligence. (Making
dissemination of same.) This is an example of work over
lapping duties among various sections.
The Greater East Asia Ministry did have its own
schools. Only vague information was obtained concerning
them, however, it is known that one, or the main school,
was in Nanking. People questicned claim these schools
were only to train people on intellectual subjects, but
i. cluded physical training for disciplinary reasons.
6. THE JAPANESE CONSULATE GENERAL IN SHANGHAI, CHINA.
A. Crganization:
The following chart shows the organization of the
Japanese Consulate-General in Shanghai. This organization is
very similar to that of the Embassy and duties performed were
the same.
(OVER)
SECRET

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
AN ORGANIZATIONS IN INTELLIGANCE
Consul Geperal TOYODA
Administrative Chief
General Affairs Section : tonsul TakhshI
Police Uffice
Maritime Affairs Section : Consul
Mobilization Section
Civil Affairs Section
Economic ection
8 Consul SATO
: Conul UETANI
: Consul TAUCHI
: Police Superintendant SHIHOZAWA
SECRET
-2

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.91)
S-una1
T. J ese cosulate in han hai wus st ll.d 
Fobruars, 1871, ane 1ater a Coneuate-iener in Jun, 1o89. It
  te    J  at.  Pki.
until ly., a.ter wi ch une it cale unuer the ontrol i the .
It u ilt wit. he followl..:
1. Acainistration of J t population
shai.
. The issu o. lice auti or t, a corain to
extraterritorial law.
3. The issuing of trade permits for Jpmese firms.
4. Administration of Japanese schools.
5. Diplomatic actions representing Japanese mpire.
6. Collection of necessary infonaation in the
Shangtai area.
The Systom!
Department for Administration
Dealin, with general administrutive
business for Japase population.
b. Department for conomical affairs
Dealin. with financial, econamical,
comunicatlons ana corresponuence
business.
c. Department for Foreign Affairs
Daulin, with the busin:ss concerning
foreigners ana to.eign relations.
a. Department for Iniimation
llection  nececsary information nd
dealin: with propaganda work.
CALT
-29-

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.90)
n
. a 1 
1. Dal Ichi Ka
rlt on
. Keimukakari (Sect.1or
general Dusnes.
b. ua (
administration,
Pemit fo: trace,
unliot...cnt,
sallitary works.
c. Shemakakari (Section for
census registration)
Registration of birth
and death,
residents.
Issue of certificate.
Concerruu Chinose
c..:loynent.
Real estate 
propertics
of J nese
subjécts.
d. Shihokakari (Sect on for
justice)
Dal Ni Ka (Tokko Keisatsu)
Coterspiona.e, control
of Japanese co v..unict.
and Korean I.d. er. e e
parties.
f. Dapartment for Justice
Court of Justice
. xtra-lepartment wore
1. Donahinka (Section for
tele:rame)
z. huusunka (section for
passports)
3. nlo (tin 101
(uocuments)
4. Kirokuka (Section for
data,
SLCAET
-30-

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.97)
SCnT
JAP.NIE CIVLIAN OGANIATIONS IN LNT LLIGNCE
7. ATIVITI F TH. SHANGHAI CUNSULAT-GNER.1, 1932 - 1937.
Hith the occupation of Manchuria by the Japanese military
forees in 1932, anti-Japanese movements in China became brisk and Chinese
public sentiment appealed for a unified front against Japan. As a result,
the first ino-Japanese war broke out on 28 January, 1933.
During the war the Japanese Consulate in Shanghai was kept
busy supporting military movements, calling out all Jupanese residents for
voluntary work. As peace was restored in a and with the retreat of the
19tr route Ary from the hanghai area, the Japanese Consulate in Shanghai
received orders to conduct the political counter measures against anti-Japaise
movenents.
The department for information was expanued and one special
oificial was appointed from the inistry of Foreign afrairs to assume the
important business of dealing with political intelli ence activities.
Because of the cosmopolitan nature of the international
settlecent in Shanghai and the complicated conditions of the international
control of the city, the Consulate could not get satisfactory results.
They utilized the oa vobun Shoyin, Shizenkagakugenkusho (the Japanese
Institute for Natural Science) and the Japanese Commercial Association
for collecting information, gave instructions to the Japanese members of
the vity-Council of the International Settlement to make official protests
against anti-Japanese movements inside the Settlement.
By means of propaganda and the use of Chinese terrorists the
Japanese attempted to change the Chinese public's sentiment to ne of anti-
British fueling.
They attempted to gather Chincse veteran militarists and
politicians for anti-Kuomintang movements, but without much success.
With the attack of Japanese Army in Lou Chia hiao on 7 July,
1937, on the Chinese Army and the occupation of Peking on 30 July by the
Japanese, war soon followed on 13 August in Shanghal.
S E C R E T
-31-

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.95)
4
ST
JAPAN CIVN OI  I IM LNC
The Japanese Consulate in hanghai furnished inrormtion
regarding the movement of the thinese troops around hang 
preparations were made accordingly. In spite or the di ficuit o.itier.
of the Japanese Naval Landing Party inside Shangllai and diiliculties of
landing large numbers of troops around Sianghai, the Japanese rmy occupia
the hanghai area on 1l November. This was made possitl by ti. worx oi
the Students of Doa Dobun hoyin, who furnisnec skttche: of vinese
fortifications and information about Chinese troop movements.
8. ACTIVITI OF IHE SH NCH 1 CNSULATI. 1937 - 1942.
After the occupation of Shanghai and Nankin, by the Jep nese
-rmy, anti-Japanese movements inside the Shanghai Settlement became ective,
involving almost every Chinese organization in the movement. to conf. ont
such movemonts, the Tokumubu of the Japanese Army and Navy, to et..er w t.
the Japanese Consulate concucted a propaganda campaign on the Chinese
population. For this purpose they gathered zo-callu pre panese eiemente
anong the Chinese nd or anized the Dah in o1.
fter the outbreak of the Sino-Japanese wa, trere were many
such pro-Japanese organizations under the protection oi Aray and Consulate
existing inside hanghai for coli., with pro-Japanese propaganda wor and
collecting information for the Japanese authcrities.
1. ast Asia A scciation
This association was founded by Mr. Liu Hsieh in
July, 1937, under the protection of the Japanese
Consulate in hanghai, later to be dissolved by order
of the . M. C.
2. Koa Kai (ast Asia Devalopment Associton)
After the dissolution of ast Asia Associ tion,
they organized the Koa Kai (Hsing Ya hoi) in marcl,
1938, headed by Mr. Shiang Mu Chiang, but because or
the difficulties of discrimination between members
who were pro-Japanese or nti-Japanese, ebr 
this association were guidance of Japa ese "onins,
who were appointed by the Consulate for the supervision
of the hinese. They were forced to dissolve this
Association in May.
S E C RT
-32-

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.95)
SLCAT
JAPANRSE CV GA IN INT
Besides the aboveentioned association, u ere we the
Anti-Comm nist Associati n, Tung Ya Huang Tu Hoi, nsiatic Po. s
Association, Chinese Ioung en's Associ tion, etc., ut such
organizations were only the gathering place: of w.e Japanese
Ronins and such Chinese who wantea to make money uy utilizine
Japanese authority.
After th establishment of the Puppet Regine,  aded .
r. Liang hong Tseh, in March, 1938, all of the abovelu
organizations were dissolved anu the Dal in Hoi was or anu
as the supporting organization of the Puppet Regime in June, 1, o.
The yatem of Dah Min Hoi
President: Liang Hong Tech
Vice-President: Wen Chung Yao
Directors Ch.en Chun
Chief of Head uarters: Chu Dah Chiang.
Chief of Urganizations: ong Hong un
Chief of Propaganda: Chang Tung
Dhe Activitiee of Dan Min Hoi
Dah Min Hoi organized 13 branches and 40 sub-brancies
in the Japanese occupied area and held 150,000 registered names.
The branches and sub-branches had close eonnection with
the branch offices of the Japanese Consulate and worked under the
supervision of the Consulate's officials. They were active in
dealing with pro-Japanese propaganda and collecting info mation.
The so-called peace movenents, Anti-Kuomintang Movement,
Anti-British Movement, Anti-Communist Movement, movements for the
sstablishing of the so-called New Order in East Asia, were performed
by them under the instruction of the Japanese Consulate.
With the establishnent of Wang Ching Wei Puppet Regime ih
1939, the Dah Min Hoi was dissolved.
9. THE ACTIVITI S OF JAPANSE CONSULATE 1942 - 1945
With the establishment of the Ministry of Great East Asia and
the amplication of the Japanese mbassy, the activities of the Consulate were
Testricted to dealing with only the affairs concerning ths Japanese population.
SECRET
-33-

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.95)
SC.T
JA CIVILIAN URGANI ATTUNS IN INT LLIG NO
In January, 1942, they organized the an 1 Koa Kai (ast
Aola vevelopment Aasociation in Shanghai) ano Jikyoku Fujin ta (omn's
association to meet the political situation, fo uhe , urp  ci uniiying
the Japanese population t cope with the politi a. situat...
They organized Ainbohan (neighbor': jint, wtering 1,00.
a warjn (Unonai Kai) numbering 1a as tne suv-or zati n of Koa Kai.
These organizatlons wr active-
1. Planting the caster-oil plant.
2. Collecting metallic ware.
3. Selling government bonds.
4. Training Japanese according o fascist ideas.
5. Collecting necessary fund for the buildin of aircraft.
In June, 1943, they dissolved the Xoa Kai u or anized the
Koa Hokoku Kai (Patriotic Associa tion for the East hsia vevelopaent).
The staffs of Koa Hokoku Kai were as follows:
President: General Consul Seild Yano
Vice-President: Mr. Nobuo "atanabe
Chief of Business Board' Yasutaro Koemura
Chief of Department for General Affairs: atohira Hat ori
Vice-Chief of Department for General Affaire' Matsutsugu Matsui
Vice-Chief of Department for General Affairst Yubun chimoda
Chief of Department for Training: Hajimu Hirayama
Vice-Chief of Department for Training: Sai Gakuto
Chief of Budo: Yeimatsu Shirakami
Chief of Physical Trainingt Kwanji Kawai
Chief of Department for Last Asia: Hiroshi Hata
Chief of Cultural Department: Kiyoshi Iwamoto
Vice Chief of Cultural Department & Shunnosuke Ashizawa
Vice Chief of Cultural Department& Chokudo Omori
President! Setsu Aoki (Central China Water & iectric Comyny
Vice-President: Nishiro Kawamura (Yokohama Bank)
Advisers: Keitaro Kuroda (-hanghei Cotton Mills)
Kenji Kodama (Tokyo)
Kikujiro Lakajima (C. C. Development Compary
Danso Tachikawa (Tung Hsing Cotton Mills)
Akitsugu Nishikawa (Toyoda Cotton Mille)
SACRAT
-34

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.93)
S U.T
 C OA N N
Yutaro Hanaw (itsui)
Tatsuichiro Funatau (Shanghai City Ooveinment)
Saiji Toshida (Tokyo)
Memuerst Yosnitduru Igarashi (Shanghai Kobai
Hikoji Ichihashi (Meiji Insurance)
Minoru Ikoma (Nippon Yusen)
Katsuo a (Sank: Coany)
Misao Latsuda (Dainihon otton Mills)
Kunichi Kawaguchi (sumitomo)
Torachi Kurimoto (Yeiwa Yok)
Yeiso Kojima (Mitsubishi)
Tetsu Shimura (Toa Kaium)
Fujisaburo Tomonaga (Nikka Cotton Mills)
Itsuchi Hishida (Yuho Cotton Mills)
Hoyu Maeda (Toyo Cotton Caupany)
Kose Miyasawa (Miyasawa Yoko)
Yoshitaka Muchita (Mihon Iushi)
Masao Yammmoto (Mitsui)
Director: unbin Takeuchi
Staff: Suketsugu satamateu
Futao Kamio
Masao Kamimura
Unesuke Kawauchi
Kun Hara
Neboru Takahashi
LO. GANIZATIONS UER TH ONTL OF T CONSULAT AL
20 February, 1946.
(A). Den Uobua Shavin (Tune mmh Uaiveraity)
The Tung Wen Juiversity was ereated by Atsumaro KunuY,
the father of Prinee Fumimaro KunoYE, in l899, in Manking, for the
purpose of establishing close friendship betweem China ana Japan in
suucallng Chinese and Japanese students together. At that time
only 14 students were registered. In 1900 the school was moyed
to Shanghai. In 1937 the whole building bumed down a a result
of the war, however, in 1938 the former Chaotung University on
nvenue naig was used by Tung wen. In l939 the status of Tung wen
was raiseu to that of a University.
SCT
-35-

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.95)
SCRT
JAPANASE CIVILIAN ORGANTTI NS IN INT LLIGNCE
The Sratm!
The Faculty: A. Political science and Law
The Faculty: B. Commercial and Economic Lectures
The College: Economical Lectures
Lectures: Languages, (Chinese, English, Russian and
German); Science; Philosophy, Sconomics,
History; ueography, Asiatic Peoples'
Theory; Japaness and Chinese Lew.
Beside: the above lectures they have special
lectures concerning Chinese affairs for studyiny
Chinese political, conomical, Cultural, Anthro-
pological, Geo;raphical conditions.
Trip for Special Investigation' Every year they send
students for about 2
monthe on round trips
in imterior China for
investigating the
important strategio
points in China.
Pinances They organised a foundation called Toa Tuoum
Kal in mhich promiment dapamen paliticians
and capitalists were involved. The Heagquarters
of TOA TObUN KAI was in Tokyo, the branches were
6st bliahed in Shanghai, Tsingtao, Peking and Canton.
The President of TuA TUBUN KAI wam Prince Fuminaro
KuNOYE and Vice President was General: Mobuyuld B.
The President of the Shanghai branch was Mr.
Tatauichiro FUNATsU and promiment Japanese
business men and officials were invalved.
SECRAT
-36-

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.94)
ShchLT
The main object of eaucation in this University was 1o
euucatin and trainin students specially to assune duties in the
intelligence service in China ior the Japanese Governnent. only
Japanese students, not Uhinese, were tr ined in espionage. Before
the Sinc-Japanese war they had a special class for Chin se students
Tor the purpose o. utilizin then in pro-Japanese activities, out
all the thinese graduates vent over. to the chungkin (overnment after
the outbreik of ino-Japanese war.
The Professors:
The first Diroctor of this School was the well-
known advocator of Milit: ry invasion into China, Mr.
Sei Anac, who was active in Military espionage during
the ino-Japanese war 1882-1883 and Russo-Japanese ar
1892-1893.
Mr. Hajimu NZU, the successor of Mr. Alt
pursuaded the Japanese Government, prominent
Japanese politicians and capitalists to form
the financial foundation for this school.
The recent Director: Kiichi HONMA
Tne Professors: Ukichi KiTANO,
Takuro UzUKI,
Fumio TAK
Fukusabure HIzAlE
Shunpei M0ZAI
Yasumobu KUCH⊥DA
Ichiro AKAk TO
Yoshiro TUDA
Yeiichi TA
Atsumi YAAA
Mamoru onlh.KI,
Stasuke HIROYE
Yoshihiro HORIY
Masaichi IshIK....A
Hatsutsugu TOBIIsHI
Kageo SAKUKAKAA
SCT
-37-

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.88)
SLCH
JAP  SE CIVILIAN UNII IUN IN INT. LI NCE
Tokuyuid Makaye
Miyazo UchIYAMA
yuso
hajimi coul
3O UYHA
Kahoi KuHAHI
Hoku MICHIGAMI
Sakuma YAMACUCHI
Maeo UCHIYAMA
Itero YAMAZAKI
Toyokichi HINNAI
kiyoshi KulWAI
Ysaburo KIDA
Hircharu CHIKAZANA
Yasuohige-KDMURA
Yoshio TSUWJIYA
Ryusei MATSUMOTO
Xinichi MIRASHITA
Ichiohu ICHIYN
Tokuji OSAKA
Shire MIYOSHI
Yasuyoshi LHII
De members or ast rsie Investigating Departmnt:
Chief!
aro MITAYE
berst Yasmhira Taul
Masanane O.O
Yasuye IKE
Genkdahi OIA
The professors of college!
Chief! Seizo KUBUTA
Hembcrs' Ichiro SAKaMUTO
Fundo OTAKE
G Y
Satasuke HIhu Y
Hiroharu OHIKA.AWA
Yasushige KIMURA
SECRET
-30-

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.90)
SECAET
APNL IVI TAN ONUAI LOM. IN INTIOENCE
Sakuma YAMAGUCHI
Masayoshi KUGn
Naoichi UNUcHI
Miyaso UChIYAMA
Atumi Y
Gehei KuhnoHI
Hyusei NT
Juntaro YONKURA
aihachi A YauI
Minetaro FUKULAKI
Sanri OKA
Kuzuo KAllU
The professors lecturing on Crinese affaires
Fumio UTAK
Fukunaburo HILAY
Atsumi YAMADA
Mamoru SAHI
Tarokiani JIAI
Kiyoshi KOINAI
Sakuma YAMAGUCHI
The raduatem rom thi College were mostly mpleyed by
impertams torrs of China were occupied by the greduates of this Callege.
The Chiefs of Intalligence Sectione of Covernmant
concerns in Ohina were almost ll graduates from this College
The greater part of the graduates were sympathisers of the hast
Alliance which was lead by General Ganji IshDmaRA and Mr. Shumai
UKAWA.
So e of them entored Mailitary service and have assumed
duties in intelligence departments. Lieutenant YOMsYAuA and QMI,
whe were graduates from this College, were in the infermation sestiom
of Mobori-butai (13th Army).
SECHET
-39

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.90)
T
PAN CIVILLA O TONS IN INT G 
The current activitim of the prefessere en raduates:
The greater pa t of the profess  hay. ieft alreauy
for Japan. The Director, Mr. Kiichi hoA, is st. in shangh.
Meor. T kihi J.. AI, KiYHI KI..I and ahtn Y.. AlchI are
still in Shanghai und are involvac in ceo r tie rovament. They
have gatrered many raduates togeti r . bece i purtant
members of Japanes cultural nsscciation.
The oth re.whe were the wm ta.re rt ia
Alliance, were active in trying to be cployeu Ly Chinesc rmy.
Because the raduates from t is Collegt ctr pmak Cilin ce fiuntly
and know how to sehave like cinese, th c l
themmelves as natives.
The graduates from this Co lege number arout 4,000.
S E C RE T
-40-

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.99)
DIVISION OF
PROTECTIVE SERVICES
Gardene, Califormia,
MAR 22 1948
March 10th, 1948.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
PROTECTIVE SERVICES
The United States Government,
Department of State,
Special Project Division,
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Washington, D. C.,
Dear Sirs:
The present is in direct appeal to your
esteemed office in re ference to my son Hajimu, who
is an American-born citizen, now stranded in Shanghai,
China.
I have made numerous contacts and effórts in
hopes of bringing my eldest son Hajimu; back to this
country upon termination of the recent war, but to my
wife's anl my deep chagrin all our efforts have thus far
proved fruitless.
I am aware of the detrimental circumstances
Hajimu has been compelled to undergo during the war, as
while the war was still raging, Hajimu was one of the
many unfortunate American-born Japanese who was stranded
in Japan. And while marooned, he was subject to force
majeurs, and served the Japanese Government in minor
capacities.
While I do comprehed the facts of his services
with the Japanese to an extent, still yet, I firmly
believe his services rendered minorly came only after
being subject to extremeties. My conviction comes from
the knowledge of the Japanese with authorities, especially
the military authorities, they have the habit of carrying
such given authorities to the very extreme, even resorting
to inhuman tactics. Under such circumstances, and further,
Hajimu being an American of Japanese ancestry, he would
be more so, subject to severe pressures, with an ultimate
leading to serve the Japanese.
It is not the desire on my part to press the
issue, or request the impossible, however, since the
matter has been pending for over two years now, I take
up the cudgel on behalf of my wife in our sincere hopes
of your early consideration of this case.
I understand from the correspondents which were
directed to me fro. Hajimu, he has made accountable efforts
wi th the American Consulate in Shanghai, but without success
And constantly writes of his dire condition he is forced
to face, due procrastination of the decision. Therefore,
I am moved to write direct in asking mercy of Hajimu's case.

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.96)
Subject: Hajimu Masuda page 2.
Hajimu's mother has been in ill health for the
past several years, and as of late her condition is becoming
more critical. She has been reiterating her desire to see
Hajimu once more before anything drastic happens to her.
Before it is too late, we beg of your early consideration
that he might join us onee again.
Your department be assured that in the event of
his return to this country, I will be fully responsible for
his activities. I am sure our son Ha jimu, given opportunity,
hewill redeem himself tobe a loyal citizen once again.
It is our sincere desire of your early attention,
and hope your esteemed office to see some way clear to assist
in bringing back to us Hajimu.
In apprecietion, I wish to remain,
Yours cordially,
Kigonohn Masnka
Kfyonobu Masuda
Enclosures: Doctors statement verifying
my wife's ill-health.
Supplementary statement in
brief of my activities upon
arrival in this country.
UNIT
elanshe
Anal.
Rev.
Cat.
Dist.

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.95)
Kiyonobu Masuda
18321% s. Western Avenue
Gardena, California
RDENA.
PEMARI3
1948
The United States Covernment
Department of State
Special Project Division
Wastington D. C.

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.98)
March 10th, 1948.
BRIEF ANTECEDENT
NAME: KIYONOBU MASUDA
WIFE: HARUNO MASUDA
RESIDENT: 1832 Western Avenue, Gardena, California.
I arrived in the United States in the year of 1906,
and have since never left this country. Upon my arrival
here, I have confined myself to Truck Gardeningand in
operating Green-house nurseries. All of my activities
were limited to in an around Southern California.
My wife, (Haruno Masuda) came to this country in the
year of 1914, and never le ft the United States since her
cominghere. She hes always been a housewife. Our first
child was Hajimu, born June 8th 1915, and subsequently
followed by another son and three girls.
I, nor any member of my family has never acted in
contrary to the law, and have always abided. All of our
childrens have gone to and graduated from their respective
High School in this cauntry.
In 1937, Hajimu was given an opportunity to travel
11
into Japan with an organized orchestra as a member, and
at the time I thought it be a good opportunity for Hajimu
to see Japan, thereby c nsented to his travel.
Upon the outbreak of the war, we were first concentrated
at the Santa Anita camp, later we were sent to Jerome, Arkansas
this was in May of 1942. In August of 1945 we went to Amache,
whe re we remained until we returned to California.
During the war, I had two son-in-laws who served with
the United States Army, and while serving their respective
capacity, I took the responsibilities of caring for our
daughters who had their husband in the Army.
My other son Hiroshi, was exempted from the Army due to
poor physical condtion.
Respectfully submitted
Miyonobn Masuda
Kiyonobu Masuda

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.97)
Office
Residence
3407 7th Avenue
3442 6th Avenue
Phone RE. 5488
Phone RO. 9278
DR. W. T.NAGATA
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Los Angeles 16. California
March 4, 1948
TO HOM IT MAY CONCERN:
This is to certify thet Haruno Masude,
ege 55, of 1832l! Western Ave., Gerdene, Celif.,
is ill at present end under my professional
cere.
Hoping thet this information is of some
velue to you, I remain,
Very truly yours,
Dr. W.T.Nagata
WTN/mn

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.93)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
Office of
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEURAPN ORANGN:
UN171948
DIRECTOR
Departia ant of State
AIRGRNYUT
3155
85
STRIOE
Fram:
Amoricun onsulato General
Shanghai, China
PI
500
JUN 1 7 1948
Date: Juno 7, 1948
June 16, 1948 1:23 pm
S CSTAT
3
ASLTMOTon
A
ACTION FE
INFO
A-500, Jun0 7, 1948
DC/R
894.20293/6-748
0
FC
I'ost receut dcvelopnont in scattcrod press attontion
OCD
to "invasion of Chinoso wator"by Jap ishormon is publiga-
CIA
tion of "Confession" of crew norber of captured Jap fishing
P
t " ."
RPS
Principal points are:
XR894628
"1. Tho four Japanese fishing boats,includin; tho v'nso
Laiu" woro ordered by tho Japaneso upromo aithoritios to tros
pass on our torritorial wators;
"2. The fishing boat sin: by vs was oquiprcd with the
nost modern shortwave racio rcccivor und transnittor. Tho day
before 1ts sinlin , it had radiood Tokyo by secret codo, ro-
portin: on the lon itudo inc latitude of thc apot as voll as
the depth of wator, whoro it was;
"S. All the crow er hors are sea en who have under one
ri id military trainin . Lhis vas, howover, cuningly refuted
by tho skipper of the "Unzon : amu", himonmre, vho elo that
tho 16- ear-old crow anrer was montally doranged so th:t he
id not Imow what ho vas talkin. hirornra also vehomently
denicd tho chorge."
FILR
JUL6 1948
TREBMANENI RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returmed to DC/R contral Mes with netatlen of actn taken.
DMR

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.88)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RÉCORAS. .TELEGRAPH BRANCN
FAR EASTERN AFFAIBS
CA
JUL 2 1948
FE
DIRECTOR
lafe
Department of State
82
AIRGHA  IT
CA
227
34
RETRUCTD
From:
Amcricun Consulate Cenoral
Changhai, China
A-653
noactn
2
JUL 2-1948
Date:
Juno 25, 1040
DW.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ailod:
June 28, 1948.
ACTION:FE
Reo'd:
J uly 2, 2:13 p.18.
INFO:
DC/R
SECLTATL
DC/L
O
IIP
CFD
A-553, June 25, 1948.
OOD
894.20293/6-2548
CIA
FC
ith roferenco to y Airgran, o. 5oo, dated
June 7, reportin thcarrost of Jepaneso fishor en
in Chinese wators, there is quotod belou a Central
T  TATE
IAIICE
Veve A rerey dispatch:
2 1948
"an chow, Juno 19. The Hangchow istriet
Court today turmed down the char es by the
Chel ian Frovincial Pesce Pronervation Rcad-
queuters againet six Jupaneso fich macn charyed
it ane lin and fichin in hinese waters,
who vere arrested on : ay e9 aboard a Japeneco
fin inoat  tho soa roar vunlamen, on
the son coast  hohelian provinec.
"fter caroful cxumination, tho istrict ourt
found no evidonce of the char s e ein: t the do-
for ants ane as ortcd titet the Japanoco fishing
Lou ves floutim towares the sea noar Chokiems
owing to the breakdovm or its on ine.
"It is luarmo. that tio cas Lus Loon truns-
fervoc. to the wnicipul Polico headguartors und
the sin fichormon aro cxpectou to c ropatriated
to Japan by the verseus Affairs urean shortly.
It is tho understandin: of the Consulhto GondTar
that the aboo aquittal affects only ono toup ofo
H
Japancse fishormon captured cud that othere continvs
PERMANENT Rs y  be re t DC/R na  w   
PITCEER

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.99)
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
is assigned to
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 706
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
RESTRICTED
Shanghai, China, August 5, 1948
Subject: Repatriation of Six Japanese
Fishermen
The Honorable
894.20293/8-548
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to my restricted airgram
A-553, June 25, 1948,and to the inquiry from the Office
of United States Political Adviser dated July 15, 1948
concerning the arrest of six Japanese fishermen in
Chinese waters. It now appears that these fishermen
sailed from Yamakawako, Kagoshima, Japan, on May 20, 1948
on board the "Dai Ni San Shima Maru" to fish some two
hundred nautical miles from land. The fishermen were:
DS
Sinoski Hilayama, age 41
Liugi Kawazaki, age 27
Hiro Sakakuchi, age 26
Kodaro Hiroyama, age 22
Shigo Yagai, age 42
Shichinoski Takami, age 56
While fishing, the boat engine failed and on May 25,
at about 11:0o p.m., they were captured by pirates. On
May 28, when the pirates' junk together with the Japanese
fishermen and fishing boat neared Wenchow, it was dis-
covered by the Third River Police Corps of Wenchow. The
CS/
police arrested the pirates and delivered the fishermen
and the fishing boat to the Haimen Police Detachment. After
a week, the fishermen were trensferred to the High Court at
Hangchow which later acquitted them. On June l9th, they
were brought under escort to the Shanghai Bureau of Police.
They are now being cared for by the Japanese Liaison Office,
332
894.
2
RESTRICTED
20293

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
Despatch no. 706, August 5, 1948
from American Consulate General,
Shanghai
-2-
332 Woosung Road, Shanghai, while awaiting trans-
portation for repatriation to Japan. Their boat is
in possession of the Hangchow Sea Police Corps and
is being repaired. The Hangchow High Court has
referred to Nanking for decision the question of the
eventual disposition of the fishing boat as being a
diplomatic rather than a judicial matter.
Respectfully yours,
Inmaht
John M. Cabot
American Consul General
file no. 800
HLSmith/tg
To Department in original and hectograph.
Copy to American Embassy, Nanking.
Copy to W. J. Sebald, Office of United States
Political Adviser, Tokyo
RESTRICTED

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.85)
INCÓMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
14
894.20293/10-148
Wma
Nodist
0CT271948
H工
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.93)
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
is assigned to
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DC/R
No. 930
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
UNCLASSIFIED
Shanghai, China, Ootober 28, 1948.
Subject: Deportation of Japanese Fishermen.
RSH
heye
X1 874.628
893.628
心
TAW
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
894.20293/10-2848
WASHINGTON.
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose for the Department's information
1
a olipping from the CHINA DAILY TRIBUNE, an English-language
vernacular, of October 17, 1948, concerning the deportation of
twenty-five Japanese fishermen from Shanghai.
FE
This news report has been substantially confirmed by the
Japanese Section of the Foreign Affairs Office of the Shanghai
Bureau of Police, according to which the twenty-five Japenese
05Y
fishermen headed by Captain Wachiu Shimomura (T 村 +) were
deported from Shanghai to Japan on board the S. S. HAI LIAO on
October 25, 1948. The local Police Bureau also states that the
0
order for deportation of the Japanese fishermen and confiscation
pos
R their shing boat, "NTSNG MARU(丸)", was originally
handed doma by the Chinese Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry at
Nanking.
DCR
9 NVv 2
Respeotfully yours,
For the Consul General:
Zhany Leag rich
Harfy Leroy Smith
American Consul
CS/
川
Enclosure:
894.20293
1/- Copy of news clipping from the
CHINA DAILY TRIBUNE dated October
17, 1948.
2E
885.9
HLSmith:CHT/Tsj
Original and Hectograph to Department
In duplicate copy to Eubassy, Nanking
71948
Copy to U. S. Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo.
10-2848
UNCLASSIFIED
am

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch No. 930 from American Consulate General,
Shangha1, China, dated October 28, 1948.
COPY
News Clipping from the CHINA DAILY TRIBUNE
October 17, 1948.
JAPANESE FISHERMEN DEPORTKD AFTER
LONG DETENTION
Twenty-five orew members of a Japanese fishing boat caught
in May this year by the Chinese Navy while catohing fish within
Chinese territorial waters, were ordered to be deported after
over four months detention.
.The boat was confiseated.
On May 29, the Chinese Navy received information that
Japanese fishing boats were sighted within Chinese territorial
waters near the mouth Yangtze River. A gunboat was despatohed
to investigate. Four Japanese fishing boats were seen operating
off the Sheshan Coast.
The trawlers tried to escape when they saw the Chinese gun-
boat approaching. The gunboat gave chase, sinking one of the
Japanese fishing boats and capturing another.
The crew of the
sunken boat were resoued.
Two boats esoaped.
Copied by Taj
Cempared with Syz

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.98)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
CONFIDENTIAL
N
10
Action: FE
Control5975
Info:
E
NOV161949
OLI
11:49AoR10b Taken
DEPART
CIA
Ne action - Takyo
DCL
ITP
FROM: Peiping
SY
DS
TO:
Secretary of State
Action Office Symbol CA
DCR
NO:
2004, November 15, 4 p.m.
Name of officer .
File
PRIORITY
Direetion to DC/R
REDEPTEL October 19. 9 a.m. relaying AMPOLADS October 17.
Chin Ting Chih's real name is now discovered to be
894.20293
Chiro-Kung. Was related to Muan Chu Imperial family
being son of Prince Su who was thoroughly anti-Repub-
lican. Most of Prince's 30 odd children were educated
Japan, many connected there. Some of children seem to
0N 0PICE
have worked with Japs in establishment Manehoukuo. One
was Kawaev May-Weo*, otherwise known as Chin Fi-Hui
executed Peiping last year for treason and collaboration.
Chin Ting Chih himself graduated from Shangha1 Japanese
college East Asia Tung Wen Academy", has lived inter-
mittently Tokyo; apparently played role similar those
his brothers and sisters during period 1931-45, may have
engaged in confidential political liaison between Japan
andManchoukuo without holding official position.During
latter part, was under surveillance Japanese military
police as liberal and finally came Peiping. Under KMT
1945-48 he engaged solely in business in presumed attempt
cover up political career under Japs. Appears unconnected
withany Chinese political party but note CCNTEL 1668
October 3 he claims brother now connected withManoturian
railway administration.
Note Chin's several relationships Yuantung, San Yang
and Hua Feng companies all had reference projects for
starting up Sino-Japanese trade with patent objective
DEC14194
being his travel Japan in that connection. At last
contact Chin was in Tientsin proposing proceed Hong Kong
FOLED
Sister belieyed,
CONFIDENTIAL
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
NOTATION OFACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-#2004, November 15, 4 p.m., from Peiping
Sister believed, but unconfirmed still in Peiping.
Tientsin reports November 12 Greek SS CONSTANTIC was
scheduled sa1l November 13 for Nagasaki. Both Chin
and Chuang Pao Ching may be aboard and because of
Chin's evident strong desire get Japan believe Nagasaki
officials might be alerted to check any unauthorized
landing. Chin might wellprove useful to SCAP
in viewhis evident possession interesting knowledge
and valuable contacts. Note of course presence un-
knowns in equation, but report above for background
reference AMPOLADand Hong Kong. Gave Chin my
calling cards addressed Bergev and Rankin identifying
himas Chinesebusinessmanand he may sppear Tokyo
and in Hong Konginthat capacity.
Sent Department 2004, Department pass AMPOLAD Tokyo,
Hong Kong, Tientsin 96.
CLUBE
*As received.
JB:BGG
NOTE: Relayed Peiping, AMPOLAD Tokyo, Hong Kong,
Tientsin 96.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.94)
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECONDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
hle00/R
Action Assig
Action Taken
5
Dat
894.2029
1
J0-11-17
tal
Com
3
1649
SECRET FIL

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVIION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
5
CONFIDENTIAL
N
Action: FE
RHm
Info:
E
Action
EUR
OLI
Rec'd November 29, 1949
IA
5:40 a.m.
12/4
AAN
Datu
DCL
ITP
Action
OFD
DCR
FROM:
Perpi
TO:
Secretary of State
894.20293
NO:
2116, November 25, 4 p.m.
AMPOLAD 491 November 14 tc Department reference
SC-53427 SCAP.
Boorman saw Chuang Pac-ching in Tientsin November 17-
18.
Chuang accempanied by Henry Chou recently returned
North China from Japan with clearance Chinese mission
Tokyo. Chou had copy import contract No. JI 50.910
coneluded Oetober 29 between Wah Feng Company (through
2549
0N FICE
Daiwchibussankaisha* as agent) and Ministry inter-
national Trade and Industry approved for SCAP by
41
0目
Foreign Trade Division Ess. Contract covers 10,000
DCL
tons soybeans, estimated purchase price US $1 mill1on
Questions reference telegram: (1) "N. K. Mar troup
of companies" unclear. Chuang says wah Feng has rela-
tions with Hang Tai Feng (Hong Kong)only insofar as
former company somet1mes purehases thrcugh Hang. (?)
No direet answer obtainable, theugh chuang's attitude
1s that SCAP prefers bilateral trade Japan North China,
diseourages triangular trade.
Chuang and Chou ETD Tientsin November 21 aboard SS HuPEH
forHong Kong en route Japan.
Requested Peiping notify
DEC 141949
Hong Kong
FLED
HH
CONFIDENPIAL
NOTATION OFACTION TAKEN.
16-5291N-1

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.51)
30
