894.5171 Financial Conditions. Budget. Dept. Bond Issues. Loans. Public Securities. Credits., Exchanges., Japan, Stock., January 20, 1943 (File 1376)
ID: 894.5171-1376   Pages: 10   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.5171-financial-conditions-budget-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JAN 25 1943
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS

January 20, 1943

REFORM OF JAPA 1

For several years prior to Pearl Harbor the Japanese Government had been attempting to secure greater control over the Stock Exchanges but with only meager results as all such efforts met strong resistance from powerful financial groups and exchange brokers. Present war conditions, however, have given the Government an excellent opportunity to effect the long desired reforms.

The underlying reasons for these reforms are: (1) The Government's desire to obtain complete control of all stock and security operations in line with its generally adopted policy of reorganizing Japan's entire financial structure to afford a more efficient and unified administration of the finances of the Greater East Asia Co-prosperity Sphere; (2) To break the strangle hold on Japan's financial structure of certain long established and powerful financial cliques, such as Mitsui and Mitsubishi; (3) To curtail speculation; (4) To more rigidly control industrial enterprises.

From the attached and other very

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -

garbled radio intercepts the bill approved by the Cabinet for submission to the Viet Convention January 1, 1943, apparently provides for the following drastic changes:

1) The present Tokyo and Osaka companies are to be dissolved as of September 30, 1943, and are to be superseded by the Japan Negotiable Securities Exchange - a Government agency;

2) The present number of eleven exchanges will likely be reduced;

3) All officials of the new Exchange will be appointed by the Government;

4) All dealings in negotiable securities are to be under the control of the new Exchange;

5) Excessive exchange price fluctuations are to be abolished;

6) All stocks are to be reclassified and only those considered safe and reliable will be listed for trading;

7) All corporate stock increase issues and new corporate issues are to be controlled, regulated and sanctioned by the new Exchange;

8) The new Exchange will represent the Government in transactions pertaining to other than negotiable instruments

=== Page 3 === (confidence 1.00)
- 3 -

when such transactions involve Government owned securities;

9) The new Exchange will be empowered to force the liquidation of stocks or the payment for subscribed shares;

10) Corporate shareholders are to be confined to juridical persons who must possess a stipulated amount of stock;

11) Shareholders of present exchanges will become shareholders of the new Exchange. (The ratio has not yet been decided);

12) The Exchange will fix the appropriate market value of all stocks.

From December 5, 1941, to May 31, 1942, the average gain of 10 important stocks listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange was 18.85%. The barometer for speculative stocks, the Tokyo Stock Exchange New, was listed at Yen 110.1 on December 5, 1941, but by May 31, 1942, it had jumped by 24.2% to Yen 136.7. Radio intercepts from Tokyo report the stock fell to Yen 118.90 on November 17, 1942, and to Yen 110.59 on November 26, 1942 (following naval battles of the Solomons). Tokyo radio reported on December 20th as follows: "Owing to the announcement of the Government's bill reorganizing the Stock Exchange, shares dropped by a big margin - the

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.97)
- 4 -

whole Stock Exchange was thrown into confusion and all industrial shares were affected." It is believed, therefore, that the present price level of all Japanese stocks is extraordinarily low, despite energetic propaganda efforts to "cloak" Japan's war losses.

FE: F. S. Williams
FSW/mp

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.95)
COPY
894.5171/4
R / JW
FILMED
JAN 25 1943
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
File
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
231943
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1943 26
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.5171/4

LANGUAGE JLG INT.AUD: HOME &amp; EMPIRE 0630-0650 ENT DIVISION
The Reform of the Stock Exchange
by Vice-minister Taniguchi of the Finance Ministry

A stock exchange is a central organ of exchange for stocks and other negotiable instruments. A Stock exchange is a very valuable organ in industry for raising necessary capital. Thus a stock exchange has an indispensable important duty in the economic system. Under the Greater East Asia war which unifies with one stroke the people's consolidated purchasing power in order to harmonize transactions for increased production and in order to stabilize people's savings it is the most important duty given the stock exchange to fix the values of peoples stock and negotiable instruments. If the stock exchange becomes a /word/ and a vulgar place of speculation the value of stock cannot be settled suitably consequently resulting in the limitation of circulation into the various kinds of industries which are necessary for the nation. Also if the value of stock constantly fluctuates the people who hold stocks as assets will have no security. That is, the state of affairs will be such that their financial situation will become insecure. Now if the value of stock becomes very high a situation of /complicated circulation/ will arise and will bring complications into the entire...of the national capital. Again for some people to be endeavoring only for the obtainment of profit by such speculation is indeed inopportune at a time the 100 million people are in unison overcoming all inconvenience and endeavoring to bring ultimate victory.

Looking upon the present stock exchange from these viewpoints its characteristics in suitability and agreement has many inappropriate points. Particularly in its /prosecution/ it tends to be imperfect in many ways. If we should waive it aside as it now exists the value of stock exchange might become very high of

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-

low and constantly fluctuate which from the general economic standpoint causes many perplexities. The main points of the...ordinance decided upon the summer of last year includes the clarified stock exchange organs for negotiable instruments. However the G&amp;A and Crop and Crop and Crop reports the are precedented great war the all-out areas in of finance and the real field. For this purpose the need for the unification of the financial organs can keenly felt. And particularly as regards the stock exchange because of the above mentioned existing conditions we have come to keenly feel the necessity of a basic change in the system. Due to these conditions among the bills to be presented to the Diet the total reformation bill of the stock exchange has been included. Furthermore from September of next year it is scheduled that permission to operate the organs of the stock exchanges will expire, /as this has been considered the best counter-measure./

The reformation at this time places principal important in the unification of the present stock exchanges and the stock exchanges will be newly established and these will undergo spectacular reform. For instance..., the district banks, the district...will be established. This new stock exchange will (...flaw in telechord). The /word/ point which the joint-stock companies need not inquire about will not be recognized. Moreover as regards the /new stock exchange/ system the fundamental guarantee in establishment only will be handled and the generally applicable shares will be limited. By such means it is intended that the so-called stock exchange will become an organ not that of low interest enterprise of the past but that of contributing /through industrial fields/ to national finance constantly. It is natural that such a stock exchange will contribute greatly to the people's living. All officials of the stock exchange will be appointed by the government. The decision for officials of the stock exchange by election of the shareholders as in the past influenced the beliefs of the officials for the sake of the shareholders who desired only profit which

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-

never bring about just judgment of transactions that is, the transactions for negotiable instruments in harmony and for improvement, which thus never brings perfection. They are prone to put up their favorite men known through their other vocations. Now an attempt is being made to eliminate these obstacles. The officials of this new stock exchange will be shown as a general affairs committee. As a result for example in case there should be any important matters /concerning business/ they will be inquired about as heretofore. The responsibility has become heavier and consequently the fate of the stock-exchange will be renewed for the benefit of the objective of the nation.

The first point of the reformation at this time as just mentioned is to make the structure of the stock exchange one of a high objective. The second point of the enterprise is relative to the business affairs of the new stock exchange. The new stock exchange as its normal business will transact negotiable instruments, that is the buying and selling transaction of stocks and negotiable instruments and to supervise them. Relative to where this transaction of business will be done I should like to consider this point by limiting the locations to those which are considered necessary at present from the financial viewpoint. Consequently the locations of the present stock exchange locations will probably decrease. As other business matter to be handled by the new stock exchange there will be the handling of the collection of negotiable instruments or selling them. These are the additional business to be handled. For example in the case of evasion of payments or in the taking up of stock in case a firm is to be expanded the stock exchange will aid. Or in lieu of taking-up extensively and generally a greater part will be vouched for /by a certain party who desires it/ than afterwards have vouches from the general public. It may be that the /great shareholder/ considers the disposal of the stock he possesses, the /interested party/ will buy in and after having bought in will sell out to the general public.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 1.00)
-4-

is the method in which the transactions will be made. As a result the issuance of stocks will become extremely convenient. Also the transaction of those already issued will become smooth. These are the expectations. Furthermore in some cases in the new stock exchange concerning the stock jobbing transactions of other than negotiable instruments and /word/ transactions one part of the business which by statute is stipulated that the government will handle will be handled by representation. Thus the government and stock exchange relationship will be more intimate. The stock exchange framework of strong cooperation will become noticeably clear.

Though stated as negotiable instruments they are for the majority stocks, if its value should fluctuate too greatly for the prosecution of national finance it is intended that whenever necessary the so-called (irikuchi) negotiables and (Kaishutsu) negotiables can be carried out according to conveniences by government order. On this point for business transaction it is a very convenient point. This situation has never existed before. The maintenance of security of the /true/ value of stocks is an extremely important problem in politics and economics. For the attainment of our objective there are already special organs such as the wartime financial /banks/. For the sake of obtaining the /true value/ of stocks the manipulation of stock-jobbing is now being carried out. When this is carried out at the stock exchanges is in many cases much more advantageous, thus the above new system was considered.

The third point for the present reformation is the reformation concerning /shareholders/. Heretofore the transactors whether they were individuals of a juridical person did not matter. However in the new system it is stated that one cannot become a /shareholder/ unless the juridical person possesses...of more than a stipulated amount. Thus the government will increase supervision power in all regions. And thus the contents of the assets of the juridical person

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-

become clear. As hertofore the cases which have brought about trouble due to the infirm /power/ of the transactors will decrease. Moreover there are not a few individuals or small business juridical persons at present so that a rather great allowance period will be set for the change into the new system.

As the fourth point there is the general strength of the supervision power of the government stock exchanges. The contents have been covered by the above so will be omitted here. In summary the transactions of negotiable instruments will become more prosperous.

The above is an interpretation of the more important points of the bill to be presented to the Diet. It is intended that of these the subscription for transaction dealings and in other points the heretofore existing system will be changed. As for the number of stock exchanges existing at present throughout the regions there are eleven. Among these two or three stock exchanges are being /investigated/. In the reciprocal action of these stock exchanges with the new stock exchanges from the viewpoint of unification these stock exchanges will become the new stock exchanges. The present stock exchange shareholders without change will /provide/ for the new stock exchange. Concerning this such problems as regards the stocks of the present stock exchanges, just how much negotiable instrument will be proportioned, will be left to later settlement. First of all the establishment of the stock exchanges must be settled.

The outline is as I have related above but in conclusion I wish to relay that in this reformation the basic policy, as I need not mention repetition, is that the value of stocks will be fairly and suitably decided upon, the value will thus be stabilized and consequently its transactions will become more smooth and strives to bring about no regrets in the prosecution of increased production and in the protection of people's savings. In the future the necessary mutual benefits for the prosecution of the war will not be few, I believe. Last

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.92)
-6-

In the course of the second year 16 on the occasion of the renomation bill the stock /reports there was rather a great price reduction/ but this had been pervading in stocks up to the present to a great extent, rather it is thought that by the reformation a fair value will be shown. The shares of the heavy industries, which are important in wartime, and the shares of shipyards or regards the general stocks will see no influence, rather they show /greater competition/. In the future the government will strengthen this plan and based on the new organs hopes to make assurance doubly sure in wartime living. I earnestly desire that you particularly those affiliates with stock exchanges will give your positive cooperation so that the government may attain its desires.
