894.01 Japan, Government. Mandates, Recognition., July 8, 1944 (File 1434)
ID: 894.01-1434   Pages: 3   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.01-japan-government-mandates-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
87

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Office
OFFICE OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS

DEPARTMENT OF STATE RECEIVED JULY 10 1944

FE
Mr. Grew:

I suggest consideration of adding to your memorandum to Mr. Long:

(1) A parenthetical sentence after Manchuria in the last paragraph as follows: "It is hard to conceive of there being any expectation on the part of the Japanese of their being able to maintain successfully a Japanese regime on the continent unless it were based on Manchuria."

(2) A final paragraph reading somewhat as follows:

As regards possible political counter measures it might be advantageous for the occupational authorities in Japan to declare that the Emperor by having abandoned his homeland to have voluntarily abdicated. The question whether the military government should thereupon set up another member of the imperial family as the Emperor's successor or should treat the emperor institution as having been terminated should be decided in the light of an estimate ~~at the time of the attitude of Japanese public opinion.~~ It is quite possible that the fact of the abandonment by the Emperor of his homeland could be utilized to great effect as a propaganda

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Office
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS

-2-

propaganda point to break down remaining Japanese resistance.

JMB

FE:JWB:JAD

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.96)
88
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
A-L
OFFICE OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JUL 8 - 1944
DIRECTOR
Department of State
RECEIVED
1944
DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
July 8, 1944

RECEIVED
1944
21244

FE: Mr. Grew:

(Copy to Dr. Hornbeck)

In considering the possible developments in Japan, and contemplating the possible actions of the directing authorities including the members of the Royal Family under the circumstances which will exist as our armed forces impinge closer and closer upon Japan, and as the catastrophe of our offensive warfare progressively reaches Japan the thought returns from time to time that the High Command, the Civilian Authorities and the Royal Family may desert Japan and proceed to some point in China removed from the coast. The thought covers the possibility that the very large military forces of Japanese army units in Continental China and the acquiescence in Japanese rule by the Puppet Regime and its adherents, and perhaps also the willing support of a large element of the population in and around the territories of Peking and Nanking may permit the Japanese authorities to avail themselves of a large military force in a large area of China difficult of access.

In other words, flight of the responsible Japanese officials to China may complicate our problem. The thought may be fantastic but it seems to me it should be in contemplation and some preparation in the way of plans made to cover that possible eventuality. It may have been thoroughly covered by the officials in the Department who are paying direct attention to the Far Eastern situation. If it has been covered, so much the better. If not, may I bring the matter to your attention with the thought that you may consider what should be done about it.

B. L.

05

A-L:BL:lag
