894.20246C Military Affairs. Army. Army Posts. Fortifications. Defenses. Military Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., Military Activities Of Japan In Ceylon Including Gathering Of Information. Espionage. Propaganda., July 22 (File 897)
ID: 894.20246C-897   Pages: 9   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.20246c-military-affairs-army-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
SEP 28 78
WE
FE
496
WE
8460.20294/1 894.20246C/1
FILED
SEP 20 1935

AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Colombo, Ceylon, July 22, 1935.

STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: JAPANESE SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES IN CEYLON

THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
WASHINGTON.

SIR:

I have the honor to report that I have recently been informed by the British Naval Intelligence Officer of the East Indies Station of various subversive activities in Ceylon being undertaken by Japanese agents or officials. Although these activities, of which only a few are known to the Consulate, have not reached sufficient proportions to cause alarm to the authorities, they are being carefully watched in connection with similar and related Japanese activities in adjacent areas. It is believed that they may prove of interest when studied in conjunction with similar reports that have doubtless been received from India, Burma, the Straits Settlements, Siam, East Africa and Abyssinia. They are sufficient to demonstrate that Japan is taking a very active interest in this area, that she is trying to win the sympathy of the masses and to turn them against their British rulers, and that in

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -

in setting herself up as the dominant leader of a Pan-Asiatic movement, she includes Ceylon in the area that should be won over to the cause.

In despatch No. 166 of June 26, 1934, the Consulate reported the visit of a Japanese Naval Training Squadron to Colombo. The Japanese Consul, Mr. Kuroki, entertained extensively on that occasion, and in conversations with his many European friends he gave evidence to his gratification that he had made a favorable impression upon the Japanese vice-admiral in charge of the squadron. Mr. Kuroki speaks English fluently, is a keen golf player, has a charming wife, and possesses an ingratiating personality, a combination of factors which won for him a host of friends in the European community and a degree of popularity somewhat unusual for a Japanese to attain in a British Colony. Furthermore, both he and his wife are devout Christians. It was accordingly rather a surprise to learn a month or so later that he was being transferred to Alexandria, Egypt. He had served here only eighteen months and had been very active and rather successful in endeavoring to persuade the Ceylon public, through addresses and articles in the press, that Japan's actions in Manchuria and North China were justifiable. He was obviously surprised and disappointed at his transfer, but tried to console himself by saying that Japan was soon to establish a legation in Egypt and that it was probable that he would be appointed counselor.

Mr. Kuroki was succeeded by a Mr. Ototsu, a consul senior to him who was transferred here from the Japanese Consulate

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -

Consulate General in Shanghai. Mr. Ototsu speaks scarcely any English and his wife none at all. Although he was stationed for, I believe, two or more years in Shanghai, Consul General Cunningham has informed me that no officer in our consulate general knew anything about him. He was apparently a nonen-tity there and, since his arrival here last November, has kept completely in the background here. The general public is therefore at a loss to understand why Mr. Kuroki should have been transferred to an apparently less important post and succeeded here by one who appears to have no qualifications that would make him useful at this post.

The underlying reason has been explained to me by the Naval Intelligence Officer who states that, contrary to Mr. Kuroki's belief, he made a decidedly unfavorable impression upon the Japanese vice-admiral who reported that he (Kuroki) was fraternizing with the British and was paying no attention to the native population whose support he should be winning for Japan. Furthermore, he had not promoted Japanese trade, but had allowed a quota to be imposed on Japanese textiles. Therefore he should be removed and replaced by someone who better appreciated his duties and responsibilities.

When his successor, Mr. Ototsu, arrived he immediately made contacts with a Sinhalese newspaper correspondent and various Buddhist priests who were friends of the Japanese consul who preceded Mr. Kuroki. Since then he has spent most of his time visiting Sinhalese, both in Colombo and in the up-country districts, who

are

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -

are known to be anti-British and a few of whom are known to the Intelligence Service to be not only pro-Japanese but actually Japanese agents. To Buddhist priests he has pointed out the affinity between Japanese Buddhists and Ceylonese and Indian Buddhists. He has been responsible for a number of Ceylonese Buddhists going to Japan on a good-will mission and for purposes of study. He was even so bold as to ask permission of high Buddhist priests here to place the Japanese flag on the gold casket containing the sacred tooth of Buddha. This casket is carefully guarded in the Temple of the Tooth at Kandy and is visited by Buddhist pilgrims from all over the world. His request was politely refused on the grounds that Buddha was neither a Japanese nor a politician. However, in a recent Buddhist religious festival I am informed that the Japanese consul's flag was carried in a procession. As the British authorities show no interest in and give no support to Buddhists, the Japanese believe apparently that they can hold themselves out as the great power which is the protector of Buddhists throughout the East and which understands and sympathizes with Buddhists who would therefore fare better and be happier under Japanese direction that under the rule of a western and foreign power. This same form of subtle propaganda is being carried out, according to reports, in India, Siam and Netherlands India.

A few weeks ago it was reported to the Naval Intelligence Officer that a very high Japanese Buddhist priest, who was believed to be a leader in the movement to which I have just referred, was due to arrive in Colombo on a certain

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -

certain vessel and that it was thought he was carrying propaganda leaflets for distribution to the leading Buddhist priests in Ceylon. While his passport was being examined by the Inspector, a search was made of his luggage, but instead of propaganda leaflets, it was discovered that he was in possession of a quantity of lewd postcards and pornographic literature. Permission for him to land was accordingly refused on the ground that he was an undesirable alien. The Japanese consul dared make no protest.

In connection with the recent conference on the defenses of Ceylon and a general discussion of the subject in the press, the Naval Intelligence Officer has ascertained that several letters written to newspaper editors objecting to the expense entailed, and pointing out that this is a matter that should be taken care of by the Imperial authorities, were inspired and prompted by the Japanese consul.

While it is not within my province to report upon matters outside of my consular district, I have been shown evidence of far more startling Japanese activities in Siam, India, the Federated Malay States and Netherlands India.

I shall hereafter endeavor to submit periodic confidential reports on other Japanese activities in this area.

Respectfully yours,

Robert L. Buell
American Consul.

820.02
RLB:GB

Distribution:
- Original and three copies to Department.
- One copy to Embassy, London, England.
- One copy to Embassy, Tokyo, Japan.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 10, 1936.

END: SAN
MHR: SAN

A Japanese motor vessel manned by 33 men was apprehended by a ship of the Royal Indian Navy while poaching and taking soundings off the south coast of Burma. The ship and equipment were confiscated, and the crew sent to Singapore. The captain, who was identified as a naval officer, was exceedingly truculent, and expressed the conviction that before long Japanese naval vessels would take possession of that region.

894.20246C/2

WTT
WTT/DLY

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.95)
454
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Colombo, Ceylon, February 20, 1935

CONFIDENTIAL - STAFF USE ONLY.

SUBJECT: APPREHENSION OF JAPANESE TOACHERS.

THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.

SIR:

I have the honor to refer to this Consulate's despatch No.360 of July 22, 1935, on the subject of "Japanese Subversive Activities in Ceylon", and to report that I have been informed by the Naval Intelligence Officer of the East Indies Station of an interesting and rather serious incident which occurred off the south coast of Burma on January 4, 1936. The case involves the arrest of thirty-three Japanese teachers, who were in command of a commissioned Japanese naval officer and who were taking soundings among the islands in the neighborhood of Mergui.

Upon the receipt of advice that an unknown motor vessel, accompanied by five sampans, was cruising about in these waters, H.M.I.S. INVESTIGATOR, a survey vessel of the Royal Indian Navy, was sent to the spot to ascertain the reasons for the presence of these vessels. The motor

394.20246C/2
APR 18 1935
APR 18 1935
APR 18 1935
894.20246C/2
F/FG

=== Page 8 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-

motor vessel, which was discovered to be the TAIKYA MARU, when ordered to stop, ignored the order and proceeded full speed ahead. The vessel was pursued and a shot was fired across her bows, despite which she continued on her course at her maximum speed which was only about seven knots per hour. An armed landing party in charge of two British officers was thereupon sent alongside in two launches from H.M.I.S. INVESTIGATOR. The captain and crew of the TAIKYA MARU, all Japanese or Formosans, were made prisoners as were also the men on the five sampans who were likewise Japanese.

The TAIKYA MARU and the sampans were taken to Port Victoria where the Japanese were all imprisoned pending trial. The nature of the motor vessel was such that it was apparent that it was not in those waters, as alleged, for fishing purposes but was actually engaged in taking soundings with a view to discovering anchorage facilities. The captain of the vessel was identified as a commissioned officer in the Japanese Navy. The vessel had been equipped, manned and despatched to those waters from Singapore. As the captain pleaded guilty to the charges, the motor vessel, sampans and the equipment found on board, including Admiralty charts, were all confiscated and the captain and the Japanese and Formosan seamen were sent to Singapore.

The attitude of the Japanese officer is reported as having been exceedingly truculent. He is said to have accused his British captors of being fools and responsible

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-

responsible for an incident that would not be forgotten. Furthermore, he very clearly intimated his conviction that it would not be long before Japanese naval vessels would take possession of that area of the coast and that those responsible for interfering with his business would meet with severe punishment.

Five days later another motor vessel, the NAGUSIN MARU, was sighted by H.M.I.S. INVESTIGATOR and ordered to heave to, but this vessel likewise disregarded the order, proceeded full speed ahead and escaped behind a group of small islands where pursuit was impossible for the larger vessel owing to shallow waters. In so far as is known, the NAGUSIN MARU is still at large.

Respectfully yours,

Robert L. Buell
American Consul.

800

RLB:DM

Copy to Embassy, London.
