894.032 Legislative Branch Of Government., Japan, Proceedings. Messages To The Parliament. Presidents Message To Congress., February 1, 1940 - August 16, 1944 (File 1441)
ID: 894.032-1441   Pages: 106   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.032-legislative-branch-of-6
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
HSM
GRAY
FROM
Tokyo
Dated FEbruery 1, 1940
Secretary of StatE,
Washington.
Edf
71, FEbruary 1, 9 . m.
894.032
OnE. ThE DiEt aftEr a rEcEss of 35 days rEopEnEd
894.032/193
this morning. AddrEsses wErE madE by PremiEr Yonai, the
Ministers for ForEign Affairs, War and Navy. E are
informEd that Arita's snEEch has bEen tElEgraphEd in
full text to thE United States and that it is being
distributed by thE JapanE sE Embassy in Washington.
Two. ThE PrEmier's spEEch was couched in vaguE and
genEral tErms. HE reiterated thE policies of non-involvE-
mEnt in thE EuropEan conflict, support of Wang Ching-Wti'
proposed central goverment in China and ad justment of
relations with third countries. HE asked coopEration
and support of thE DiEt and thE pEoplE for his policy.
GREW
YFVC
F/FG
一

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.95)
7i
JR
TELEGRAM RECEVED
Berlin
Dated FEbruary 2, 1940
FROM
REc'd 1:14 p.m.
LIAIFICE
 T
C
SEcretary of State,
4
Washington.
13
273, FEbruary 2, noon.
Commenting in only very Eneral fashion on thE
U
JapanesE ForEign Minister's speech of yesterdy the
BErlin press endE vors to makt political capital out of
894.032/194
Arita's theories concerning the origin of the European
war end his complaints ageinst British interference with
JapanEsE shipping. Gratification is Expressed with his
words of apprecintion concerning the friendly relations
844.032
which Japan hns Enjoyed with GErmany and Italy "sincE the
timE of thE conclusion of thE Anti-Comintern Pact" and
according to thE Fortign OfficE DDPK thesE nations arE
762.94
not only bound togEther by thE primaoy of thE principlE of
nationalism but also by their dEtermination to resist
impudent provocotion from abroad. Japan, it is noted, is
pursuing a "policy of conciliation" with Russic and with
thE United States coincidentnlly with its Efforts to
Establish a nEw order in thE Far East similar to that
FEB 1940
which GErmany is EndEavoring to crEatE in EuropE.
FILED
F/FG
KIRK
WNC
K

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
PLAIN
AC
FROM
Tokyo via Shanghai and N.R.
Dated FEbruary 2, 1940
REc'd 9:30 a.m., 3rd.
Secretary of StatE
Am
Washington
E9L
894.032/195
76, FEbruary 2, 9 p.m.
894.032
OnE. Editorial rEaction touay opening Diet address
Forein Minister outspokenly criticiztd uniformly
unfavorablt. V uEnEss facE trEmEndous obstacles
object particulur attach.
Two. Chugai states no sign improvement changE
JapanEsE orEin policy dEspitE imptrativE nEEd. KOKUMIN
charges funcanental contradiction forEign policy which
rEcorniZEs necE sity nEw orlEr yEt &ttempts : Eneral
appEasEment. Yomiuri doubts assertion Foreign Minister
cultiEs Japan's so-callEd independEnt forEign policy
CC
whilE HOCHI and ASAlI agrEE addrEss spiritlEss indicaDivE
inability facE serious situation.
Sent to Shanghai. Shanghai pleasE rEpEat to Chungking
PEiping naval radio.
GREW
NWC
FA

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.95)
EE
H3M
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
GRAY
Tokyo
Dated FEbruary 3, 1940
FROM
Rec'd 9:35 a.
123145
A frc.
SEcrEtary of StatE,
EgL
Washington.
B
8
894.032
OnE. A mEmber of the Diet naned Saito, who is
mentioned in my dEspatch No. 1830, May 14, 1936, yEster-
dey delivered in thE Lower HousE a spEech which is
894.032/1
senmationally treated by the press as a stront attack
on China policy. A portion of thE spEEch has bEen pub-
lished, thE rErainder having bEen ExpungEd from the
rEcords and a press ban placed thereon. WE havE not
bEen ablE s yEt to obtain a full account of thE latter
nortion, but wE reconstruct the speech substantially as
follows: (a) the portion published deals wi.th thE im-
1040
portancE of sEttling the China conflict, refers to the
policy of drift followed by successivE cabinεts, and
Emp asizes that thE government has not taken the pEople
into its confidencE. ThE speaker then cited an official
A
document to support his bElief that thE conflict was
brought about by mutual lack of knowledge on thE part
vof both Japan and China. Turning to the KonoyE declaration
of

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.96)
Asm =2= No. 79, FEbruary 3, 6 p. m., from Tokyo
of Degember 22, 1838, hE stated that it could not bE
altered without prEjudicing Japanls good faith. In
connection with thE arrangEment reached with Vang Ching-
0
wEi, hE referred to thE Enornous casualties and military
Expenditures and hE asked whether the government still
08r
intended to bring about a sEttlement of thE conflict on
Chena
the basis of thE terms prEsented in thE KonoyE dEclara-
tion, that is, without indemnities or ceding of terri tory,
rEspEct for thE rights of third powers, no monopolistic
rights to bE acquirEd by Japan, and Sino-JapenEsE coopEra-
tion against corrunism (b) comment: thE published portion
rEads as though the speaker werE rEgistering opposition
to sEttlEment on any such reasonable terns, but it was
adroitly calculated, as put by onE paper, "to act as a
smoke screen for the thesis that thE sacrifices called
for by sEttlEmEnt of thE war along thE lines of thE KonoyE
mdE
forrula will havE bEen/in vain, and that the rEgimE which
is to bE sEt up under Wang Ching-wEi will bE innotEnt in
thE maintaining of internal order and will not have
sufficient prestige to carry out China's obligations to
forEign powErs" (c) in thE supprEssEd portion of thE spEEch
thE speaker stated that the Wang regimE was not worth
bringing into ExistencE, that if thE conflict is to bE
continued until Chiang Kai-shek is overthrown it would
bE wEll for Japan to takE stock of its rEsourcEs, and
that

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.97)
hsm -3- No. 79, FEbruary 3, 6 p. m., fron Tokyo
that there is another way of bringing the conflict to
an end than by making an arrangement with Wang, and
that is to abandon thE policy of refusing to deal with
Chiang Kai-shek. ThE speaker concluded by deriding the
characterization of thE conflict as a "holy war".
Two. It is reported that thE Minister of War will
make today in the DiEt a statenent which is to bE rE-
garded as a rEjoinder to Saito's "challengE of the
fundanentel concept of thE nEw order in East Asia".
Repeated to Shanghai. Shanghai rEpeat to Peiping,
Chungking.
GREW
WVC

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
HBM
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Chungking via N. R.
Dated FEbruary 7, 1940
FROM
REc'd 6:20 a. m.
COPIES SENT TO
B
SEcrEtary of StatE,
O.N.I. AND M.I.D.
EgL
Washington.
67, FEbruary 7, 10 a. m.
Local prEss commEnt on Takao Saito's spEech in
294.032
JapanEsE DiEt FEbruary 2 and its rEpercussions in Japan:
894.032/1
HSING SIU PAO of FEbruary 6 says incidEnt shows
farsighted JapanEsE rEalizE war is rEsult insufficient
undErstanding of China on part of JapanEsE; that Saito
and other moderates do not opnosE aggression but merely
disagreE with military as to mEthods; that the inistry
97
of Var is utilizing current confusion among political
partiEs to strengthen its hold on Government. ThE TA
KING PAO says JananEsE DiEt cannot bE rEgardEd a an
agency through which public opinion influences natioml
policy; that only mEthod of rectifying si tuation arE rEmoval
of militarists or rEvolution. SAO TANG PAO suggEsts thE
EI
Saito ineidEnt rEveals war wearinEss of pEoplE and indi
1940
7
cates dEsirE of political parties to sEizE power. The
11
HANKOW HERALD of FEbruary 5 said "to all intEnts and pur-
posEs JapanEsE parliamentarianism 1s dEad."
Repeated to Peiping and Shenghai. Shanghai pleasE
mail to Tokyo.
DDM
PECK

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FROM
JI
GRAY
Tokyo
3
Dated FEbruary 9, 1940
Vr
WAA
REc'd 9:25 a.m.
Secretary of State
Washington
894.032/198
Etz
894.032
103, FEbruary 9, 8 p.m.
ThE DiEt procEEdings on thE 8th cEntErEd around
domestic problims with small attention paid to
foreign affairs.
GREW
WWC
F/A

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVIION OFFAR EAST
N AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
larch 11, 1940.
Tokyo's 4491, February 19, 1940,
entitled "Mr. Takao Saito's Interpellation
in the Diet."
Telegrams and the press have already
given the Department a full impression of
Mr. Saito's speech in the Diet on February 2,
1940 in which the Government and policy in
China were criticised. It is the Embassy's
opinion that broad sections of the Japanese
publio are anxious to be informed of the
Government's position and that Mr. Saito
merely voiced the thoughts which are daily
uppermost in the mind of the masses. As
to the possibility of effective cleavage
of politioal thought within Japan, the
Embassy believes that such cleavage will
not be definitely outlined until such time
as there has been a clarification not only
of the position of the Government, but more
particularly of the role which the Army
desires to play openly in politics and the
responsibilities which the military will
be willing to accept.
894.032/199
CC
FE:CoVIle:MacD:SS

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
pit
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, February 19, 1940.
No. 4491.
SUBJECT: MR. TAKAO SAIFO'S INERPELLATION IN THE DIET.
844.032
2A
2
WA
ECVEO
C
m
Cofhy in FE
.C
C
ONI MID
894.032/1
The Honorable
6
6
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
FILED
Sir:
The Minseito party, the strongest political party
at present having two Ministers in the Cabinet, selected
V
Mr. Takao Saito as its principal interpellator during
the first part of the present interesting and significant
A
Diet session which reopened on February 1 of this year.
Mr. Saito will be remembered for his courageous interpella-
tion on May 7, 1936, at which time he roundly berated the
Army for its responsibility for the February 26th incident.
(In

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
(In this connection reference is made to my despatch
no. 1830, May 14, 1936).
On the afternoon of February 2, 1940, Mr. Saito
addressed the Government and Diet members. I have the
1/ honor to enclose a copy of a clipping from the JAPAN
ADVERTISER of February 3, 1940, containing a part of
Mr. Saito's speech. He began with a criticism of the
original statement of policy issued by Admiral Yonai,
because, he said, its terms were abstract and its
wording indefinite. He expressed a desire to hear the
candid opinion of the Government as to when and how the
present "incident"in China would be settled.
He went
on to say that in his opinion, as well as in the opinion
of the Chief of the Information Section of the General
Staff of the Army in Chinu, as expressed in an article
in the SHUHO, December 13, 1939, the present "incident"
was caused by a mutual lack of understanding on the part
of both Japan and China. He further believed that the
"incident" was inevitable and unavoidable at that time. As
a prime consideration to be kept in mind in working out the
settlement of the incident, ir. Saito emphasized the supreme
sacrifices which have been paid by the Japanese soldiers
in China.
He proceeded to discuss the Konoye statement
which was made on December 22, 1938, in which the Japanese
undertook unilaterally to announce to the world their aims
in China. These five points -- no indemnity, no cession
of territory, complete respect for the rights of Third
Powers, no economic monopolies for Japan in China, Sino-
Japanese cooperation against communism and the withdrawal
of

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
of all Japanese troops except those necessary to such
cooperation -- were cited; and, according to Mr. Saito,
Japan has proclaimed a policy which it may not alter
without seriously damaging her good faith. He asked for
the Government's interpretation of the five points of
the Konoye statement. Turning next to the question
of the phrase "a new order in East Asia", Mir. Saito
sought an explanation in concrete terms of the meaning
of this phrase as understood by the Government. Mr.
Wang Ching-wei, he said, seens to understand this phrase
to mean three things: neigiborliness, joint defense
against communism, and cconomic cooperation. "Is this,
Mr. Saito asked, "the correct interpretation?" He then
proceeded to attack the Konoye statement which, considered
from the standpoint of practical political forces, Mr.
Saito concluded, was no better than "academic theory". By
broad implication he suggested that the rewaras for Japan's
great effort would, if the "incident" were settled purely
on the basis of the Konoye statement, be very meager, and
that therefore there was no basis in reason and commonsense
in continuing the hostilities. Turning to the peace move-
ment in China under the leadership of Mr. Wang Ching-wei,
the speaker, while lauding Mr. Wang's efforts, expressed
considerable doubt as to the efficacy or future strength
of the new projected central ré ime. He is reported to
have made the statement that "there can be no room for
power politics where there are no armed forces", and to
 have asked whether the new régime was to have armed forces.
H1s

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
His attack on the Konoye statement was for the
most part so oblique that the implications of the speech
were not grasped until well on toward its end. It is
to be noted, however, that the last part of Mr. Saito's
remarks have, on the order of the Speaker of the House,
Mr. Koyama, been expunged from the record. As reported
in my telegram no. 79, February 3, 6 p.m., it is under-
stood that in the suppressed portion of the speach Mr.
Saito stated that the new central sovernment under Mr.
Wang Ching-wei was probably not worth bringing into
existence and that, if the conflict is to be continued
until the Chiang Kai-shek Government has been overthrown,
it would be well for Japan to give careful consideration to
its resources. He is also believed to have suggested that
another means of bringing an end to the conflict would be
to abandon the policy of refusing to deal with General
Chiang Kai-shek. His concluding remarks, which have been
most vigorously attacked because of the alleged derogation
of the characterization of the conilict as a "holy war", were
quoted by the Toa Keirin, an obscure radical sheet, in an
extra edition issued on February 13 as follows: "To hasten
with phantom discussions of peace, while heedless of na-
tional sacrifices and futilely hiding behind the beautiful
name of holy warfare' is to endanger the nation".
Mr. Saito's remarks brought in their wake a flood of
criticism and created great confusion. The question of
the punishment to be given him for his "slip of the tongue"
in deriding the term "holy war" which has been used in
Imperial

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
Rescripts, remains unsettled. Immediately following Mr.
Saito's remarks the military officers in attendance at
the Diet held a meeting and decided that these remarks
could not pass unchallenged. As a result, probably of
a combination of the objections of the military and of
certain politicians in the Diet, the Speaker of the House
ordered the last part of Lr. Saito's speech expunged from
the record and also referred the case to a disciplinary
committee. Mr. Saito voluntarily resigned from the Minseito
party to avoid embarrassment to that organization and to
assume personally full responsibility for his remarks.
Interviewed by the KOKUMIN SHI BUN at his home a day or
so afterward Ir. Saito affirmed his "burning patriotism"
and said that he had asked these questions because they
were paramount in the minds of the people. He pointed
out that during the hour and a half he had spoken neither
the Government nor the members evidenced serious objection.
On February 3, the Lower House was called to order
some eight hours behind schedule because of numerous secret
meetings by the political parties attempting to agree upon
their attitude towards Mr. Saito's speech. The War Minister
then attempted to rebut Mr. Saito's attack. He upheld the
objeotives and the method of prosecution of the China
"incident". He declared in strong terms that the final
objeotive is the complete destruction of the pro-communist
and anti-Japanese régime in China and the restoration of
lasting peace in East Asia - this objective to be accomplished
along the lines of neighborliness, common defense against
communism

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.97)
-6-
A
communism and economic cooperation. "The new order", he
is reported to have said, "will be enough to recompense the
heavy sacrifices being paid by one million soldiers at the
front".
Reports appearing almost daily in the vernacular press
clearly indicate considerable maneuvering in political cir-
cles. There appear to be many in the Minseito party who
heartily support Mr. Saito's position and who are not en-
tirely in sympathy with the party's leaders who accepted
his resignation. In addition, some of the members of the
Kuhara faction of the Seiyukai party seem to be sympathetical-
ly inclined toward r. Saito. The press has also reported
as an aftermath of this incident the revival of the movement
to form a new political party. The KOkUiIN, in a feature
article on February 16, states "that this movement is
centered in the Nakajima faction of the Seiyukai party,
joined by certain sympathizers in the Social Mass party
and the JIKYOKU DOSHIKAI, a rightist organization. These
elements, probably with the backing of the military, strongly
advocate the expulsion of Mr. Saito. As viewed by the
KOKUMIN the future of this new party movement will probably
2
depend largely upon the attitude taken by the Army.
On February l2, in a session of the budget committee
of the House of Representatives, Mr. Yozo Makino of the
Kuhara faction of the Seiyukai party, obviously having in
mind the action of the military officers in the Diet follow-
ing Mr. Saito's interpellation, questioned the War Minister
concerning participation of military officers in politios.
In

=== Page 16 === (confidence 1.00)
-7-
In reply the War Minister is reported to have said that
some officers of the War Orfice assigned to assist him
must, in the course of their duties, make necessary studies
and deliberations on certain matters and that they must also
be allowed to express their political views,if necessary.
In reply to a similar interpellation in the House,the War
Minister stated that he, andhe alone, is responsible for
expression of the political opinions of Army officers and
that all such expressions are made through him.
There is evident considerable divi:ion in political
circles, which is reflected in the fact that the disciplin-
ary committee has not yet reached a decision. It is re-
ported that extensive investigations are being made and
that the spokesman of the Foreign Office will be asked to
testify before the committee concerning the effects of
Mr. Saito's speech on opinions in foreign countries. The
Government and the Army are said to be taking a firm stand
in demanding the expulsion of Mr. Saito.
Expulsion from the Diet will not solve this political
problem. There is every indication that broad sections of
the Japanese public are anxious to be informed of the Gov-
ernment's position on the questions posed by the Minseito
interpellator, who, after all merely voiced the thoughts which
are daily uppermost in the mind of the masses. The present
uneasy political situation of which this incident is a
manifestation is of particular interest in the light of
reports concerning the internal situation which have reached
us from time to time through various individuals (for
example,

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.97)
-8-
example, see my telegram no. 80, February 3, 8 p.m.).
The Embassy will continue to follow carefully and to
report developments as they occur; but it is not believed
that the cleavage of political thought in Japan will be
definitely outlined until such time as there has been a
clarification not only of the position of the Government,
but more particularly of the role which the Army desires
to play openly in politics and of the responsibilities
which the military will be willing to accept.
Respectfully yours,
Grort. Pen
803
MWS:C
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosure:
1/ As stated above.
Original and  copies to Department.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No.) , to despatch
No.4491, dated Feb.19,1940.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Saturday, February 3, 1940.
MORE LIGHT ON INCIDENT PLANS
DEMANDED BY DIET QUESTIONER;
WAR MINISTER TO REPLY TODAY
Mréton to Be Asked
Saito Wants to Know What
After the Hoise recessed for the day.
Domei reported, "Government delegates
Government Means by 'New
representing the army" held a consulta-
tion on Mr. Saito's remarks and came
Order in East Asia'
to the conclusion that some of them
were "derogatory to the 100,000 officers
and men who have been killed in the
HIGH INDIGNATION RAISED
China incident."
It as also decided that Mr. Saito
should be requested to retract those
Togo Raises Question of Cabi-
remarks to which exception was taken.
The Social Mass Party and the Jikyo-
net's Attitude Toward Main-
kai held meetings during the evening
at which resolutions were adopted in
taining Status Quo
denunciation of Mr. Saito's speech,
which was held to have slandered the
objectives of the China incident.
JEERS,
APPLAUSE MIXED
Managers of the Minseito, Mr. Saito's
party, also held a conference on his
speech and the repercussions it hed
How much longer will the China
caused. Duning the conference, Mr.
incident last? How is it hoped to
Saito sent word suggesting that the
controversy be disposed of as the man-
dispose of it? What is meant by a
agers thought best. Later Mr. Shoju
new order in East Asia? These and
Koyama, Speaker of the House, and
other questions were addressed to the
others were consulted for advice in
Government in the House of Repre-
the matter.
The. Nakajima faction of the Seiyu-
sentatives yesterday afternoon by.
kai also joined in the indigmation mo-
Mr. Takao Saito, Minseito, during an
vement and leaders of the group de-
interpellation in which he complained
cided that Mr. Saito should be asked
about the secrecy surrounding im-
to withdraw some of his remarks.
Mr. Saito was the second of the
portant national policies and the ab-
two interpellators of the day in the
stract statements regarding them
Lower House Before him spoke Dr.
made by Government leaders.
Minoru Togo. agriculturel expert and
Premier Yonai apparently told him
member of the Nakajima faction of
the Seiyukai. Dr. Togo raise dthe
only that the policy for disposal of
question of how the Yonai Cabinet
the incident is immutable and will be
stands regarding the status quo and
carried out with determination. For-
was told that it is determined to deal
eign Minister Hachiro Arita made no
resolutely with the ourrent situstion.
response to Mr. Saito, nor did War
Foundation Provided
Shortly after the House was called to
Minister Shunroku Hata, who is ex-
order at 2:10 o'clock, Dr. Togo began
pected, however, to make a detailed
his interpellation, which he prefaced
statement in the House this after-
with the assertion that in this opinion
noon, answering the questions from
the foundation for the new order whish
It is hoped to establiah. in East Amla
the standpoint of the army.
has been laid by the remarkable aohle-
Mr. Sato's questions and comments
vements of the foroes in Chins, ascord-
aroused a storm of indignation among
ing to Domel.
Social Mass Party and Jikyoku Do-.
"The weightiest questions fasing the
shikai members of the House, re-
natiom at the moment," he centinued.
"are the diegpomal of the Chime ineldent.
ported the Nichi Nichi, which eald
that War Minisjer Shunroku Hata

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.96)
in the way of co-prosperity for Japan.
"A powertul Government-must-be
Manchukuo and China, they must be
based on the support of powenful pali-
resisted with firmness and determina-
tion. The need of the moment is to
come and gone during the pest' few
make prevail an indepedent foreign
years have al lacked such : bed,
policy based on the real strength of the
being in most cases noshing bst the
country. Has the Yonal Government
results of patchwark. It is absphutely
any determination in this connection?
impossible for such a Government to
"The first condition for the manifes-
assume the responsibility of ing
tation of diplomacy based on the real
the Emperor in the administratesn"e
strength of the country is the building
national affairs. The forces furmishing
up of defense resources. To rely on
the impelling power in politics have
other countries for supplies of oil and
become divorced from the people of
other important military materials is
late. The results is a patrcity of poli-
no way to achieve autonomous national
tics that is so glaring that there is no
defense. Has the Government any in-
telling when there is anything like
tention of devising a policy for obtain-
unity of opinion."
ing supplies of the materials essential
Jeers Break Out
for national defense?
Jeers from the Minseito seats inter
"As long as modern warfare is scien-
rupted the interpellator at this point,
tific, there is great need for effecting
and his colleagues in the Nakajima
general reforms in various domestic
faction of the Seiyukai countered with
matters with a view toward perfecting
loud clapping of hands. When this di-
the wartime structure of the nation in
version had subsided. Dr. Togo re-
order to bring our sacred work to
sumed with:
completion."
"Hope rests ertirely in the inaugu-
After emphasizing the need for de-
ration of powerful politics. I wish to
know whether the Government means
termination on the part of the Gov-
to take steps for this purpose."
ernment in carrying out reform measu-
Premier Yonai, the first Government
res, in terms not indicated by Domei,
spokesman to respond. had the follow-
Dr. Togo discussed the political strue-
ing to say:
ture of the nation, also in terms thet
"The establishment of a new central
are not reported.
government in China will mark a step
"It is regrettable," he continued,
forward in disposal of the China inci-
"that the Yonai Government is beha-
dent The Government is pushing its
ving in a manner that gives the im-
preparations for supporting the new
pression it is inclined to maintain the
regime. As for foreign policy, it will
status quo. I wonder what is prevent-
be independent. It is the intention of
ing it from formulating reform mea-
the Government to seek adjustment of
sures and boldy laying them before
relations with other countries from an
public opinion? All of the Cabinets
autoncrrous standpoint.
that hávè been in office since the start
"The interpellator spoke of the Gov-
of the China incident have allowed
ernment as though it stood for main-
pláns for dealing with financial and
tenance of the status quo. Its mind i
economic conditions under a wartime
tion to deal with the eurrent sttuation.
made up firmly to take resolute ac-
structure not to progress beyond the
"As for politics, the Government is
paper stage.
"The question of commodities that
looking forward to the day when
are daily necessities, which has a vi-
powerful politics, based on the provt-
tal bearing on the Government's price
sions of the Constitution, will be prac-
ticed. As a matter of fact, it i a
policy, needs to be examined closely.
pealing to the people for their co-ope
As for rice, more important to ne-
ration in the hope of conducting
tional life than any other necessity,
powerful politics."
the Government should jastitute a ma-
Arita Responds
tionwide rationing system at once as
Foreign Minister Arita followed him
a wartinme food policy. I want to know
with:
how the Government proposed to ap-
"The attitude of the Government to-
proach this important question of sup-
ward the Buropean conffict it one of
Élyin daily necessitles"
non-involvement. The Government l
The interpellator then talked about
centering its attention chieffy on the
inflation resulting from currency ex-
construction of a new order in ast
pansion, the increased purchasing po-
Asia. This represents an eflest to make
wer of the people and the shortage of
 contribution to world péade. e i
diaily necotaities.
the intenfion of the Governmest to
"National power must be buils up,"
dispose of mabters concerping adjust-
he wené de. "The proper soal can be
ment of foreign relatione is at inde
reached only if there is fundamental
pedent mane. He forelge polidy 
reconstruction of the wartime econo-
in uphostding the primoiplad of jasndes.?
for mobilization of materials and 
Then Cosdmeres ane Bmdustry Min-
ablishment of a labor system thet will
Fujihara rempondedo.
be uabe.
eei
The meneral budget for the nike fle-
secing control ssenemy and ere ssse

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.96)
of commodities that are necepgitiey
document. I ould like to know the
from the stendpoint of the livelihood
interpretation which the Government
of the people. It a the hage of the
puts on the meaning of the ave polnts
Government to listen ag mush as pos-
of the Konoe statement I have men-
sible to what the peogle have to sw
tioned.
in formulating measures for carrying
"Of late the phrase 'a new ender in
out the low-price poliey."
East Asía' has been in frequent use.
Finance Minister Sakurauchi stated
I wast the Government to explais in
briefly:
concrete terms the meaning of the con-
"The Government is prepared to. give
ception oarried by it. 1 mote thst For-
mature consideration to the question
eign Minister Arita actually used the
of enforcing the new budget. It wilf
phrase 'a new order' in his admini-
see that it is garded put in, a manner
strative speech to the Dlet yestesday.
that will help to reduce Government
Exactly what does the new order ean?
expenditures and economize in the
According to Mr. Wang Ching-wei, It
consumption of materials."
would seem that the ides conveyed by
Silto bißerpellates
the phrase 'a new order' connote three
Mr. Saito, of the Minselto, beganr his
things: neighborlinems, jeint détense
interrogation by taking exception to the
against the Comintern and economic
administrative speech of the Pretmer
co-operation. Does the idea of the new
a: the re-opening of the Diet on Thuts-
order it is hoped establish in East Asia
day. He held that its terms were as
connote these three things? The con-
abstract as those of the statement of
tent of the Konde statemert wus a
policy issued by Admiral Yonai follow-
high ideal. after all. Constderation of
ing the investiture of his Cabinet
it from the standpoint of practical polf-
Thus preracing his speech, Mr, Sito
tics forces me to the correlusion that it
turned his attention to the questiofr of
was an academic theory."
disposal of the China incident.
Forensic Weapens Used
"I want to hear the candid opin-
In his attack on the Konoe statement,
jons of the Government on the que-
Mr. Saito used the forensie weapens for
tion," he said. "How much longer will
which he is famed, Domel comments.
He made referencé to the Buropan war
the incident last? How isiit hoped to
in unfolding his argumet in support
dispose of the incident? I want the
of his contention thet peace is brought
Government to clarify these points to
about in the background of powerful
the people. At the same time. I wemt
armed fortes.
the Government to make a clear-cut
Giving no heed to it, Mr. Saito went
reply to the question of its attitude
on:
toward the scope and content of the
"The projected new contral movern-
disposal of the China incident.
ment in China is an exeedingly good
"The China incident can be traced
thding Here is a point on which it he-
primarily to lack of understanding on
hooves us to ponder. It is the question
the part of Japan and China regarding
of the power of the new regime. 1
ach other. Conditions in relations be-
am tald that the new regime will not
tween the two eountries át the time
posses armed forces There can be no
of the outbreak of the incident were
room for powerful politics whese there
swch thet am armed conflict between
are no armed forces. I wish to know
them was a thing that could not have
whether the new regime is to have
been helped. I should think that the
armed ferces.
fundamental cause of the incident must
Replying, Premier Yonal said:
be taken nto account in devising mea-
"The policy of tay country for the
sures for its solution.
disposal of the Chime ineident is im-
"There is another consideration
mastable, and the Ceverament is de-
which must not be lost sight of in see-
termined to proceed with its execu-
king a settlement of the incident. The
tom. The projeoted new central gov-
brilliant achlevement of our forces in
eranment will think in the samè terms
the incident was made possible by the
 this country, The Government re-
supreme smcrifices peid by many of our
cegnizes that the mew regime will pos-
compatriots. This stern fact must con-
sems power and ability, and it ia the
stantly be present int the minds of those
poliey of the Glovermment to hely the
working for the disposal of the inci-
new regime to develop. : Rogardins re-
dent.
lations between the new regime nd
Objections Véleed
the Chungking Government, they will
"There is something in the Konoe
be in a state ef sivalsy fer some time.
statentent enunciating the principles
But this cannot he helped. It is the
for the disposel of the incident to
expectation of the Govermment to 
which I shotld like to voice obfections.
the Chungleing Gevemement dimolve
Thé pokrts of the Korice statemest are:
and join the sow segime."
"1. Respect for the sovereignty of
China.
reglying, ansd Jopmn will ostend-as
. No territorial claims and no in-
demnity.
to. the new regime.
…
u3. Bconomde co-operation between
Japan and China
"4. No restrictions on the interests
of third Powere in-China.
"9. Withdrawed of troops from points

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 16, 1940.
PA/H
A
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Tokyo's despatch no. 4602, March 20,
1940, entitled "Mr. Takao Saito's Diet Inter-
pellation: Expulsion of Mr. Saito".
A text (enclosure 1) is now available
of the statements made by Mr. Saito, member
of the Diet, in his speech of February 2,
1940. The text 1s not, however, an official
stenographic report but is based upon a
newspaper account published in the Osaka
Mainiohi.
The content of the speech as here re-
ported is not substantially different from
the report contained in the Embassy's earlier
despatch (4491, February 19, 1940) and
telegrams.
Considerable maneuvering led up to a
unanimous vote on March 6 of the Disciplinary
Committee for Mr. Saito's expulsion from the
Diet. The Committee's recommendations were
approved by a closed session of the Diet on
Maroh 7.
It has
pebome evident that there is
APR23
within
MR WELLES

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
within the Diet, and perhaps within the
Cabinet, a considerable number of individuals
who are sympathetic with the position taken
by Mr. Saito. Mr. Saito's remarks and the
aftermath have served to outline more clearly
the cleavage of political thought in Japan
and to indicate the growing strength of those
who favor the expansion and development of
the Japanese Empire through a more orderly
process than that at present being followed.
In the Embassy's opinion they desire to w1th-
draw from the present methods employed in
China, though they have no desire that Japan
abandon her effort for economic security and
independence and position of dominant in-
fluence and prestige in East Asia. The group
favoring a re-examination of Japan's position
vis-à-vis China and the present hostilities
derive from difference of view as to what.
should be Japan's position in the Far East
but from doubt as to (1) strength of Japan's
domestic economy, (2) early capitulation by
the Chungking Government, and (3) non-
interference by other powers.
CC
FE:CoVIlle:EAS

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.93)
C
Divisian of
U
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
FEASTERN AIRS
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 4602
Tokyo, Maroh 20, 1940
SUBJECT:
MR. TAKAO SAITO'S DIET INTERPELLATION:
EXPULSION OF MR. SAITO.
No
294.032
11
For
In U S. A.
V
55
10
RECEIVE
894.032/200
8
016
MA.
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State,
Washington
FILED
12N
Sir:
The early phases of the division and confusion
in politioal ciroles in Japan which occurred follow-
ing Mr. Takao Saito's interpellation in the Diet on
February 2 were reported in my despatoh no. 4491,
February 19, 1940. At this time I have the honor
briefly to summarize subsequent events leading up
to Mr. Saito's expulsion from the Diet and to disouss
some
F/N
l

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
some of the undercurrents apparent in the present
turbulent flow of political thought in Japan. There
1/
is enclosed a translation of a stenographic record
of Mr. Saito's remarks which were expunged from the
official minutes. This record was published in the
OSAKA MAINICHI and is said to have been written by
a staff reporter attending the Diet session. I have
no reason to doubt the general accuracy of the report.
This version of Mr. Saito's expunged remarks
differs little from that suggested on page 4 of my
despatch under reference. He urged a practical and
not idealistic view of international relations and
domestic conditions, and asked for a rational considera-
tion of the drain on Japan's resources necessary to
effect a settlement of the incident. He pointed out
the inconsistency between the statement made by former
Premier Abe that the new Wang Ching-wei Government will
make overtures to the Chungking Government and the
action of the Japanese Army in forging ahead with its
military campaign against Chungking. The people, Mr.
Saito said, are anxious for as prompt and as profitable
a settlement as possible. He emphasized that the fate
of the nation depends on a successful conclusion of
the incident.
As indicative of the support given Mr. Saito, it
is significant to note that no positive action was
taken for over a month and that during this time it
was made readily apparent that in the minds of many of
the

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
八
the Diet leaders the only way of avoiding serious
disturbance was to obtain the voluntary resignation
of Mr. Saito from the Diet. Public opinion in sup-
port of Mr. Saito, it was feared, would encourage
sympathizers in the Diet to resist his expulsion
which was sought particularly by the military and
certain politicians. It was also believed advisable
to avoid the debates which would occur in the Diet
and would indicate a lack of unity in Japanese politi-
cal circles which in turn might very probably prove
embarrassing to the Government in its efforts to
settle the "China incident" and to establish a new
"central government" in China. In connection with
the last point, it is interesting to note that the
Minister for Foreign Affairs was asked to report on
the effect which the "Saito incident" had abroad. A
lack of unity in the Diet might possibly encourage
public unrest. In spite of vigorous attempts made
through Mr. Saito's friends to induce him to resign,
he maintained his position and steadfastly refused
to submit to the pressure. It was erroneously reported
at one time that Mr. Saito would probably be allowed
to address the Diet on March 5 and that he would sub-
sequently resign. However, following his public
statement reiterating his determination not to resign
and announcing that he had completely and clearly
stated

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
へ
stated his entire case to the disciplinary committee
meeting held in camera on February 24, it became obvious
that determined efforts were being made for a prompt
八
and decisive settlement of the issue. Undoubtedly
considerable pressure was brought to bear on those
opposed to Mr. Saito's expulsion, but much difficulty
was experienced in reaching a decision in the case
during the caucuses of the Minseito party and the
Kuhara faction of the Seiyukai party. In the former
the nine original members who had represented the party
in the disciplinary committee resigned and were re-
placed by others undoubtedly not opposed to Saito's
expulsion. In the latter, opposition was led by Mr.
Chuzo Mitsuchi, chairman of the budget committee, and
C
Mr. Ichiro Hatayama, former Minister of Education.
All difficulties were overcome, and on March 6 the
disciplinary committee unanimously voted for Mr. Saito's
expulsion. The committee's recommendations were ap-
proved by a Diet meeting on March 7 held in camera.
It has become evident that there is within the
Diet, and perhaps within the Cabinet, a considerable
number of individuals who are sympathetic with the
position taken by Mr. Saito. His supporters and sym-
pathizers range from those who agree with his remarks
to those who resent merely the way in which the case
was handled and the fact that it became "a political
football." Mention has already been made of various
difficulties within the several parties in quieting
the

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.96)
-5-
the opposition to Mr. Saito's expulsion. Suspicion
of the sympathetic attitude toward Mr. Saito of Mr.
Matsuno, the present Minister of Railways, is also
expressed in certain of the vernacular papers since
NBF
he successfully arbitrated the differences and made
arrangements whereby the opposed members of the Kuhara
faction of the Seiyukai were not forced to resign from
their party. Mr. Tanezo Koyama, parliamentary Vice
Minister for Foreign Affairs, and Mr. Kunitaro Koyama,
2 N8's
Navy Parliamentary Councillor, were not present at the
Diet meeting at which expulsion was voted, thereby
tacitly expressing their disapproval. The KOKUMIN
particularly criticizes this action and states that
these members are "awaiting the decision of the
Cabinet" with regard to their action. Ten Diet members
of the Shakai Taishuto (Social Mass Party) did not
CV
attend the plenary session of the House of Representa-
06
tives at which the expulsion measure was approved.
The central executive committee of that party decided
that eight of these individuals should be expelled from
the party. Mr. Kyujiro Okazaki as an expression of his
MD
dissatisfaction resigned from the Minseito party.
While the press has to a considerable degree be-
rated the political parties and leaders for their
selfish motives in manipulating the Saito incident
for personal benefit and further enhancement of po-
litical power, it has been evident that the press,
V
either

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
either because of official pressure or through self-
restraint, has avoided extensive comment on the
present political situation. As indicated in my pre-
vious despatch on this subject, there are reliable
indications that there is lurking in the background
a revival of the movement for the formation of a new
political party. The ASAHI reported that on March 8
a second meeting of "interested members" of the Naka-
jima faction, Kuhara faction, Shakai Taishuto, Jikyoku
Doshikai, and the First Lobby (Dai Ichi Giin Club),
was held for the purpose of drafting a prospectus of
a "league for the accomplishment of the holy war"
(it was announced that this was an unofficial and pro-
visional name). In this movement Mr. Nakajime, leader
of the Nakajima faction of the Seiyukai, is active;
and it is reported that Count Arima, former Minister
of Agriculture and leader of large agricultural groups,
is also closely connected.
1
Mr. Saito's remarks and the aftermath which has
followed have served to outline more clearly the
cleavage of political thought in Japan and to indicate
the growing strength of those who favor the expansion
and development of the Japanese Empire through a more
orderly process than that at present being followed.
Mr. Saito and many of similar belief are apprehensive
of the danger of Japan's becoming inextricably involved
in what the Konoe statement has termed a great ideal
and moral venture, but what is in fact a military
campaign

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
campaign which has progressively expanded and taken
an ever-increasing toll of "blood and treasure."
They desire to withdraw as promptly and as profitably
as possible. By this I do not mean to suggest with-
drawal from China. There is no question but that
every patriotic Japanese politician desires economic
security and independence for the Empire as well as
a dominant position of influence and prestige in the
expected economic development and expansion of East
Asia. The strategic retreat,in the opinion of some,
should be from the present methods of achieving that
desired objective. A pyrrhic victory, they believe,
will result from the present movement toward peace.
Mr. Saito's courageous remarks were perhaps premature,
but it is worthy of note that a year ago probably no
one would have dared to show sympathy or support for
a simllar interpellation. Executive leadership and
responsibility remain divided on the surface; the
military still avoid political responsibility, but
through the doctrine of Imperial command hold abso-
lute direction of military affairs and the China
campaign. That direction broadly affects all phases
of economio and political life in Japan, and to forge
a strong connecting link between military and political
ciroles, some politicians favor a new party to assist
in mobilizing the people behind the present campaign
in China. Others see danger in the present extended
aotivities

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
activities in China and in the possibility of a
failure of the effort to browbeat the Chinese. They
believe a puppet regime may not bring the hostilities
to a close and are apprehensive of the net losses
which may follow greatly protracted hostilities.
At the present time it is possible only to comment
that the group favoring a re-examination of Japan's
position vis-à-vis China and the present hostilities
is gaining in strength. Serious domestic disturbances
might possibly result in an extended period of martial
law or a military dictatorship. It is to be noted,
however, that a military dictatorship in Japan would
be a manifestation of a tendency which is observable
throughout Japanese history of the people in time of
emergency to turn to military leaders as being, in the
opinion of the people, the one element not interested
in self-aggrandizement as individuals and representing
a group which has often been
entrusted with the ad-
ministration of the Empire's arfairs and has always
been influential in the advisory councils of the
Emperor. It would not be a military dictatorship
similar to that now familiar in Europe. The military
in Japan, particularly the army, is broadly repre-
sentative of the people and is probably the only group
capable of maintaining order in a time of domestic
strife or mmergency.
Any

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.96)
-9-
Any changes in Japan's China policy will result
in a large measure from three factors: whether
domestic economy further deteriorates, whether serious
resistance by the Chinese Government continues in-
definitely, and whether increased pressure is brought
to bear by third countries. It is the apprehension
among certain Japanese that one or all three of those
conditions may be realized--more than a difference of
opinion over the question whether Japan should or
should not dominate East Asia--which gives strength
to those favoring a reconsideration of the means
employed to fulfil "the destiny of empire."
Respectfully yours,
1000.0
72122
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosure:
1. Translation of exeerpt from the OSAKA MAINICHI,
March 3, 1940.
803
MWS:mg
Original and 2 copies to the Department
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
Copy to Embassy, Chungking
Copy to Consulate General, Shanghai

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. / to despatch
no. 4602dated March 20, 1940,
from'the Embassy at Tokyo.
Excerpt from the OSAKA MaINICHI, February 3, 1940.
"To go on a step further: I should like to hear the
views of the Government on various points which I shall
develop in my arguments. Already the present Government
as well as its predecessors have made statements along the
following lines: This present war totally differs in character
from any past war and through this war the Government, avoid-
ing all thought of gain or loss, and from a moral viewpoint
and with lofty ideas is accomplishing a New Order in East Asia;
we are fighting for eternal peace in the Far East within the
spirit of the so-called doctrine of 'one family in the universe'
and conforming with international justice built upon a founda-
tion of morality. This peace will in turn effect the es-
tablishment of world peace. For this reason no thought is
given to immediate profits or anything similar thereto.
This then is said to be the holy war and the fighting is
called sacred. These thoughts previously appeared in the
Konoye statement. They represent indeed a most lofty ideal.
However, the question is whether such lofty idealism does or
does not conflict with the objectives of past, present and
future struggles among and between nations. Unless parlia-
mentary politicians who have until now borne the burden of
the destiny of the nation, without being merely vainly in-
fluenced by idealism formulate national policies to cope
with the actual conditions of competitive struggles among
and between nations, the future of our country, I believe,
1s

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
is endangered. Utopian national policy is not national
policy in the true sense of the term.
First of all, permanent peace in the Far East --
this is highly desirable but is it possible actually
to realize such peace? In every generation since ancient
times there have been peace advocates and peace movements -
not only religious workers but also politicians of various
countries who, whenever they open their mouths, clamor for
world peace. No one can directly oppose arguments for peace
and no one takes a stand against peace. The establishment of
a permanent world peace, however, can not actually be realized.
According to the Konoye statement, this incident is a
holy war and is to contribute to world peace. This is an
ideal, and, from the standpoint of practical politics, it
is utopian.
The deciding factor in international relation-
ships is power. Therefore, it is meaningless to endeavor to
settle the China incident while hiding behind the beautiful
name 'holy war'. A holy war must reflect the fact that one
country is opposing and fighting another.
What sort of power is the proposed new government going
to have? Internally the Government must be powerful, and
in foreign relations it must be capable. If not, the new
government will not be able to accomplish anything.
Power is military strength. Particularly in the history of
China, political power has always been held by one holding
the command of military forces. The new government will have
to take a stand against the Chungking Government. Will Japan
station military forces in China?
Further

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
Further, what will be the relationship between the
new Government and the Chungking Government? The Abe
Cabinet stated that the new government would in the future
make overtures to the Chungking regime; yet the army is
pushing ahead toward Chungking. This fact leads us to
suspect that there may be some inconsistency between the
army and the Japanese Government. The Premier has said
that he will follow the policies set forth by his predecessor;
I should like to hear his opinion in this connection.
In assisting the new government, Japan must, of
necessity, have great strength in materials, personal
resources, etc. What is the extent of Japan's national
strength. Will the new government be able to suppress
the Chungking regime and to control the people? Finally,
the China incident is an incident upon which the fate of
Japan rests. The people wish to achieve as prompt and favor-
able a settlement as possible. To become too closely bound
up in a spiritual movement will be to lose the main objective
of the holy war. For example, Japan's undertaking would end
in a mere formality such as has been witnessed in the national
spiritual movement. Sacrifices made in wartime are not
always fairly distributed, the Government must endeavor to
distribute the burden on a fair basis. To consider well
moasures for the prosperity of industries is more beneficial
and practioal than a spiritual movement. The Ito Cabinet
carried through the Russo-Japanese War to perfect success.
The Katsura Cabinet conducted successfully the Sino-Japanese
war. But, how about the three former cabinets which have dealt
with the present China incident? The Yonai Cabinet must
follow the example of the former cabinets. People are
putting up with all inoonveniences, both in speech and

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
ials. This is because they love their country. There-
fore, if the Government should make a mistake in settling
the incident, the result would be disastrous. I should now
like to have the Premier state his views and ideals in a
positive manner.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.94)
DA
7
RECEIVTHE FOREIGN SERVICE
No.
ADF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1282
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
Tientsin, China, February 23, 1940.
894.032
SUBJECT:
Transmission of an Editorial on the
Diet Speech of. Mr. Takap Saito.
iweraqe
In U S A.
THE HONORABLE
Juni
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
894.032/201
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
1
I have the honor to transmit herevith a copy of
Department of
COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
my despatch No. 994 of today's date, addressed to
the Embassy, Peiping, on the above-mentioned sub ject.
APA
VSTON OF
Respectfully yours,
Hlscdwell
1940
State
J. K. Caldwell,
American Consul General.
Enclysure:
1. To Embassy, Peiping, dated
February 23, 1940.
800
WEY: sfa
FILE
Original and four copies to Department.
F/N

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.94)
No.4
THE
FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
Tientsin, China, Pebruary 23, 1940.
Tranamission of an Kditorial on the
SUBIECT:
Diet Speech of Ur. Takao Saito.
The Hono rable
Nelson Trusler Johnson,
Amerioan Ambassador,
reipin.
31r:
I heve the honur to enoiose herewith e. editorial
1/
from the TITuIN An  I TIt of Fobruary 16.
1940, whioh suppleents the editorial submitted with
 despatoh of February 14, 1940, ent1tled "Trans-
misslon or an di torial Hegarding the Diet peeoh of
r. Takmo aito and the ett1 ent of the Chine In-
eident".
ccording to the encloseu editoriel, r. Jaito's
speech oreated n furore 1n Japnn because he was not eon-
tont to esk for definitions (as others had done) of
popular torms used in connectioin #1 th the Chine con-
fliet, but by aving some definitions or his own he
"Deelouded the objeot of th: holy war and bemirohed
the spirit whioh had ruld the nation sinoe the found-
ing or the oountry.
Expounding th: theory that it is not the politi-
eians and stateamer. wit, their dootrines, but the wars
themse lves

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
themselves that impose shanges and decisions among the
warring nations, the oditorial coneludes with the state-
mant that "It is not how the new order in East Asia is
interpreted, nor how deep the oleavage between the senti-
ment of mmgnanimity and the familiar appetites of nations
at war, that matters so muoh as the deoisions the war
1tself will impose, as it has imposed already 1ts will
on all the sohemes of politicians, the long-laid but
shattered plans of Genoral Staffs, and the pre-concep-
tions of the publio".
Respectfully yours,
J. K. Caldwell,
American Consul General.
Enolosure:
1. Copy of an editorial appearing in
the February 16, 1940 1ssue of
the PEKING AND TIENTSIN TIMES.
800
WEY:sfe
Original to the Embassy, Peiping.
Five copies to Department under cover
of unnumbered despatch dated
Fobruary 23, 1940.
Copy to Embassy, Chungking.
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo.
8fest

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatoh No. 994 dated
Fobruary 23, 1940 from the American Con-
sulate General, Tientsin, China, on the
subjeet of "Transmission of an Editorial
on the Diet Speech of Mr. Takao Saito".
PEKING & TIENTSIN TIMES,
Tientsin, China, February 16, 1940.
THE TANGLED WEB.
A SLIP of the tongue in politics is a euphemim for
that most heinous of all crimes - the telling of the
truth without even shaming the devil. When red-hot
patriots come across it they mutter something about the
dirtiness of birds that foul their own nest and get
terribly worked up about it. That is what happened in
Tokio the other day when one of the Minseito greybeards,
Mr. T. Saito, created such a furore. The cabled des-
patohes did not tell us exactly what it was he said.
But the Japanese papers now to hand throw light on the
subjeot. There appears to be an effort on the part of
members of the Diet to secure definitions. Mr. R. Kita,
another Minseito member, has just asked the real meaning
of the popular expression "Hakko Iohiu" - whether it
meant the attainment of the Imperialistio ambitions of
Japan or merely universal peace. He gave his own idea,
whoreby it seems to apply not to China but to other parts
of the world. The Minister cf dueation was content to
hint that the answer was "in the negative"; in other
words, thet it did not imply aggression.
Mr. Saito, too, was not content to ask for definitions,
but insisted on introduoing his own - honoe all the
trouble. He wanted to know how much longer the China
Incidont would last, oblivious of the fact that there
is no Minister of Propheoy in the Cabinet; how it was
hoped to dispose of it, an unfair power to say the least;
and, finally, what is meant by a New Order in East Asta.
Everybody is now familiar with the phrase; nobody is sure
what it means. And if the Japanese themselves don't know
it is a bleak problem indeed for the mere foreigner.
Mr. Saito referred at length to the brilliant aohievements
of the forees in China and the supreme saerifice paid by
so many of them.
In Japan what is immutable is immutable and that is
all there is to it. Mr. Saito was olever enough to
adhere to convention in that respect. The Konoye State-
ment, he agreed, was immutable. The five points of the
statement, he recalled, are:-
Respeet for the severeigaty of China.
No territorial elaims and no indemmity.
Beenemie co-eperation between Japan and
and China.
(4)

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
(4) No restrictions on the interests of third
Powers in China.
(5)
Withdrawal of troops from points in China
excepting Inner Mongolia.
It was not a question of changing the dooument, he
indioated, but of ohanging or at least defining its
interpretation!
Everybody, inoluding the Government, is nowadays
making free use of the phrase "a new oraer," and Mr.
Saito wanted to know in concrete terms the meaning of
the oonoeption it carried. According to Mr. Wang Ching-
wei to whose subtle end theoretical mind a juicy phrase
like this is as raw meet to a man-killer - the idea
connoted three things: neighbourliness, joint defence
against the Comintern, and economic co-operation. But
did it mean that? The content of the Konoye Declaration
was a high ideal, but fron the standpoiat of practical
politios he was foroed to the corclusion that it was an
academic theory.
Mr. Saito, it would seem, is a plain, blunt man
who has no use for mysticism. And, what is more, he made
it olear that he dld not like the Konoye principles. In
an interview afterwards ne expressed pained surprise at
the furore he had ocoasioned, an' explained that he was
inspired by the late Premier Count Okuma, and it was
the "Waseda spirit" within hi, begueatned to Waseda men
by Okuma, which stirred lim to seak out frankly what he
thought was rignt. The anger of the Military and some
of the Parties is elucidated ny the Yomiuri. It is not
that he "spilled the beans," but that Mr. Suito's indisore-
tion beolouded the object of the holy war and besmirohod
the spirit whioh had ruled the netion sinee the founding
of the country.
Mr. Saito's contention, in chort, was that the
Konoye Declaration did not mean what it says; and that
if by any ohane-, in the view of the Govornment, it did,
he had no use for it, even as acedemic theory. There
is nothing very now ubout the dilemma Japan faces.
Every war has produced muoh hot air amous dootrinaires
about a new order, and while they talked the wars them-
selves were imposing their own changes which the viotor
invariably recognised and ratified.
The biggest part of the permanent new order is to
be seen in the economie consequences of the war in Japan
herself. She is being pushed irresistibly away from the
free and liberal eeonomy of the pre-war era to the state-
controlled, colleetivist way of life whioh thrown out
new tentaeles daily. The same thing is going on even in
England. There is perhaps a good doal of muttering about
this by those most affeoted, in every country. But it is
assepted nevertheless: c'est la guerre! The deeper
confliet arises over the new order to be imposed on the
other fellow, and it is an inner as well as am outer
confliet. In the end the idealists usually surrender to
the realists, if they are on the winming side, and it is
a ease of woe to the vanquished, modified only by the
mildness or feroeity of the vietors. In the Great War we
had the Treaties of Baskarest and of Brest-Litevsk befere
we had the Treaty of Versailles, and the Treaty of Sevres
before

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
before the Treaty of Lausanne.
The question of interpretation of words on paper
is interesting to those who have moral doubts or
material misgivings, but it is largely a matter of one's
own peace of mind. When force becemes the continuation
of polioy, it becomes the arbiter of poliey, and that is
why we find in the reference books the saying that "war
settles nothing." In fact it does settle the issue - but
only till the next war! Prince Konoye's deolaration
was the basis for a polioy which sought to make reason
and not violence the arbiter; and if not the final arbiter,
at least the determining factor in the present stage. A
half solution in South and Central China - in the beliof
of the optimists - would be better than no bread. The
Diehards' answer to that is thet the true alternatives are
the whole loaf or nothing: that Japan must impose her
will on China or suffer the lot of havin the will of
China and others imposed on her.
At the back of the Japanese mind, it is true, lies a
mystio belief in a great mission. It may well be justified
in the very long and distant view. The question is whether
it is the right time: whether Jupan is not emulating
Canute's courtiers at a time when the tide of Western
oivilization is at its flood. It mignt be a different
story when that tide is on the ebb, and it is a profound
miseonoeption to interpret vhe struggle in the West in
that sense. The same applies to Germany. The socalled
decadent Demooracies ave never displayed sueh unanimity,
resolution, and capacity for action and deoision as now -
not even in the Great War. Conscription with agitation
and resigning Ministers in l9l6; consoription without a
murmur in 1939. Full industrial control in 1917; now
offeeted in the first few months of the war. Soores of
similar parallels eould be drawn not merely in Britain
and Franee but, to take moral judgment alone, in the
United States.
Even the more expesed neutrals, inspired by the
heroie symbol of Finland, are beginning to talk baok as
they did not dream of doing in the last war. It is not
how the new order in Bast Asia is interpreted, nor how
deep the oleavage between the sentiment of magnanimity
end the familiar appetites of nations at war, that matters
sc much as the desisions the war itself will impose, as
it has imposed already its will on all the sohemes of
politieians, the long-laid but shattered plans of General
Staffs, and the pre-conceptions of the public.
Copiod by: CPL

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Diet proceedings: February, 1940.
894.032/
202
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See4611
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)
From Japan (Grew)
Dated
March 27, 1940
To
894.00 P.R./147
File No.
FRG
1-1840
202

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.98)
-29-
III.
INT.RNAL POLITICAL CONLITIONS.
(a) Diet
The Diet was ieconvened on Februery 1, on which day
894.0
tie annual addresses of ti:e Tremier, the Foreign, or,
and Nevy ministers were delivered. The F: emier's speech,
vhich was couched in vacue anc general terms, merely re-
iterated the Governrent's policies that had already been
set forth, including those of non-involvement in the
:uropean corflict, positive surport of the pronosed new
centrel  overnment in Chine, and adjustment of relat ons
with thirc coutris.*
Reference has been made in tie Ioregoine sections of
this report to the salient stntem nts mace by the Foreign
Minister in his a dress in regard to Ja yn's foreign
policies. (iererences: sections herein concerning relations
with the United 3t tes, China, Coviet Tussia, Ceneral
Internationl Rel.tions.)
Subsequent sessions of the Liet durin Fubru'ry were
devoted to debates on Government policies and bills pre-
sented. In other sections of ti is report there are noted
uncer the subjects to wich they refer the substance of
these debetes.
The outstanding event in the Diet proceedin's was an
interpellation on February a by Ir. Takao Saito, a member
of the Minseito, the largest political party at present,
who delivered a forceful cnd searching attack on the
Government's Chin policy. Much of the speech was expunged
from the records anc publication thereof was forbidden.
*mbassy's telegrams no. 71, rebruary 1, 9 p.m.;
Mr.
and no. 72, February 2, 9 p.m.

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.97)
-30-
Mr. Saito went d to know how much longer the Clina iicident
would last, how t..e Government hoped to dispose of it,
and what in f. ct 'tle new order in Tast  sia: meant.
Accorclt to tie published portion of the aduress, he
speaker asked for on inturprettion of the five points
of the Konoye statement. he sugg sted that they wer
mere 'academic theory," and he intimated that if tie
principles of no indemnity, no territory, nd no economic
monopolies for Japan, were implemented, the nation would
have nothin? to show for the sacrifices it hod made. The
impression was given in the published part of the accress
that Mr. Scito was registerinf opposition to settlement
of the incident on any such reasonoble terms, but in the
rem. inder of  is speech he su cested that the conflict
cotld not be indefiniteiy continuec without eventual ex-
haustion of Ju an's resources. le then questioned whether
it wes vorth while to bring into oxistence the me Ching-
wei récime as that ent ity vould h ve to be uphelo by the
strength of Japanese armed forces in takin its stand
against the Clungkin covernment. e intimated, in con-
clusion, that a reelistic approach to settlement of the
incident would be to deal cirectly with the Chiang Kai-
shek régime, notwithstancin pr evious declur:tions to
the contrary.
The turmoil crd confusion aroused by tis speech con-
tinued throu:hout the rost of the month.
H. Saito was
forced to resien from the I.inseito Party ne the question
next arose as to what sort of punishment hould be given
him for his "slip of the tongue' in deridinf the term
"holy

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.97)
-31-
'holy war.' Rightist elements in the country cemanded
his immediate expulsion from the Diet and it was under-
stood that the Army wes also bringing pressure to I car to
this end. It wes held that he l d "desecrated the objectives
of the holy war,i that his speech tended to disrup: the
unity of the mpire, and thet it was being expicited in
China and by third powers to the detriment oi Japan. In
other sections of the country much sympathy anc support
for Mr. Srito were founc, end it was app rent th t his
remarks had represented the feeling of  laree rart of
the cou.try, rnd brought to a head the previously latent
difference in politicel thoucht. bespite entrenties made
upon r. Sito, he refusec to resin ris seat in tle Diet
and by the end of the moith the matter wes still unsolved.*

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.93)
R2
A8
TELEGRAM RECEVED
Tokyo via Shanghai & N.R.
CO
T TO
DatEd DEcEmbEr 24, 1940
FROM
Rec'd 1:11 P.m., 26th
SEcretary of State,
Division of
FAR EASTER REFAIRST
Washington.
EC2:1940
Department of State
1373, DEcEmbEr 24, 7 p.m.
6
4.03
Vernacular Editorial comment today's convocation
032/
Beventy sixth session Imperial Diet all papers Except
CHUGAI emphasizes radical changE Japan's parliamentary
203
structure due dissolution political parties, Expresses
concern possible friction between Diet and New Imperial
Rule AssistancE Association, hopes parliamentarians co-
opErate function smoothly conforming spirit new structure.
Sessions momentus due rifE criticism association usurper
Diet's constitution prerogatives.
21940
D
ASAHI states party men dissatisfied KonoyE's incon-E
sistent policy failure establish their anticipated strong
C
111
C
political party, face dilemma: support new organ, laoking
political strength or revive old parties. Constructive
cooperation new structure urged.
HOCHI points out ExtremE diffioultiEs Diet's rEla-
tions new structure organs, urges: "No matter how swept
PSHR
by drift of new structure, Diet members must never be
merE robote".
GREW
WSB

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
GRAY
HSM
Tokyo
FROM
Dated January 21, 1941
894.032/204
REc'd 10:40 a. m.
COPLESSENT TO
112241
REK
EASTERNTAIRS
Secretary of State,
1941
Nashington.
cc
97, January 21, 8 p. m.
SECTIONS
The first regular sEssion of thE Diet today was
featured by addresses by the PrimE Minister, Foreign
Minister and Army and Navy Ministers. The press
32
-14
reports that following the formal speeches sessions
in camera werE convened at which Cabinet members werE
to Explain frankly to Diet members the domEstic and
2
international situation facing Japan.
3
After referring to the Emergency "unprecedented
in the history of Japan", thE Premier urged thE orma-
AND
tion of a national defensE statE by full armamentoand
日
thE sEttlement of the China incident. HE stated tha
4
through the tripartite pact Japan would secure world
peacE and Effeot stability in greater East Asia. Cit-
ing the Japan-Manchuria-China agreement, the Premier
P
said that Japan would defeat thosE elements still
rrsisting in China. Discussing the new structure he
appralrd

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.98)
hem -2- No. 97, January 21, 8 p. m., from Tokyo
appealed for thE nation's full cooperation with the
Government to assure smooth working of the Imperial
Rule AssistancE movement. The need for creating a
self-sufficient economy was stressed and aid was
promised to small industrialists adversely affected
by thE China Incident. HE affirmed (END SECTION ONE)
GREW
TFV

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
GMW
Tokyo
FROM DatEd Januar y 21, 1941
Rec'd. 12:51 p.m., Jan. 21st.
SEcretary of StatE,
washington.
97, Januery 21, 8 p.m. (SECTION TWO).
that the Government wauld redoublE Efforts for smooth
distribution of foodstuffs and would adherE to its policy
of low prices.
1
Mr. Matsuoka callcd thE tripartitE pact thE "Enbodi-
ment of pEaceful but powerful coopEration" recognizing
JapanesE lEadErshin in East Asia, GErman and Italian lEad-
εrship in EuropE, but hostilE to no (rEpeat no) country.
HE mEntionEd thE treaty arrangements for sEtting up mixEd
commissions in thE thrEE countriEs and stated that friendly
political, military, Economic and cultural rElations wErE
becoming continally closer. The Minister attacked thE
"malicious propaganda" circulating regarding Italian mili
tary operetions, ExprEssed confidencE in "our εlly Italy."
Calling thE plight of the Chungking Government
"miserable" Mr. Matsuoka (*) to Chiang's continued rEsist-
anoE on misplaced hopEs for assistancE from Great Britain
and thE United States "EspEcially thE latter." This
assistance

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.98)
-2- GMW 97, January 21, 8 p.m. (SEction Two) from Tokyo
assistancE was bElittled on thE grounds that thE Burma
routE was being successfully bombed and America was concen-
trating aid to Britain. ThE Minister repEated that Japan
dEmands no (rEpEat no) (ENL SECTION TWO)
GREW
TFV
(*) Apparent omission.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.98)
B
GRAY
GMW
TELEGRAM RECEVED
Dated January 21, 1941
Rec'd. 11:15 a.m., Jan. 2lst.
FROM
Secretary of StatE,
Washington.
97, January 21, 8 p.m. (SECTION THREE)
cessions or indemnities.
ThE Minister then reviewed rEcent rElations with
NEtherlands Fast Indies, French Indochina and Thailand
pointing out that thE Indies nEgotiations werE continuing
and conferences with thE French in Tokyo werE proceeding
amicably.
HopE for improved rFlations with Soviet Russia was
ExprEssEd and agreement of views on thE fisheries quEstions
announced. ThE tonE of thE Minister's rEfErences to
Soviet Russia was conciliatory; hE statEd that thE "utmost
Efforts" wErE being madE to removE mutual misunderstanding
and to Effect a fundamental and far rEaching adjustment
of diplomatic rElations. HE EmphasizEd that thE tripartitE
pact was not (repEat not) dirEcted against thE SoviEt Union
In discussing rElations with the United States the
Minister Enumerated thE EmbargoEs and rEstrictions on
Exports to Japan sincE thE abrogation of thE CommErcial
treaty.

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.98)
-2- GMW 97, January 21, 8 p.m. (SECTION THREE) from Tokyo.
treaty. HE stated that thE situation had bEcomE so
aggravated that Japan must now bE adEquately prepared not
only to mEEt this prEssurE but to sEcurE her Economic
lifE linE within thE area of grEater Asia. In Effect, hE
statEd Japan's (END SECTION THREE)
TFV
GREW

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
REB
GRAY
Tokyo
FROM
Dated January 21, 1941
Rec'd 2:55 p. m.
Secretary of StatE,
Washington.
97, January 21, 8 p. m. (SECTION FOUR)
dEmands of thE UnitEd StatEs to be:
(1) understanding of thε vital concern to Japan of
thE Establishment of an East Asia co-prosperity spherE,
(2) recognition of Japan's superiority in thE
Western Pacific, and
(3) cessation of Economic pressurE on Japan. Mr.
Matsuoka then appealed for reflection on thE part of the
United States for thE sakE of pEacE in thE Pacific and
1n thE world: thE Foreign Minister Envisaged American
Entry into thE war and thE possibility of Japan being
"compelled to Enter thE war" which would then bring about
another world conflict.
For sEveral days thE press has suggested that the
oreign Minister would answer Secretary Hull's statement
and a strong attack aimed at American policy was €xpected.
The fact that the Foreign Minister's remarks were
surprisingly

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM RECEIYED
(SEC. Four)
surprisingly mild and theFfact that no Government state-
nent has been 1ssued 1n reply to Secretary Hull although
such a statement has bEen twicE announced (Embassy's No.
87, January 17, 10 p. m.) may 1ndicatE that careful
consideration is bEing given within the Government to thE
avoidancE of official utterances calculatEd to Exacerbate
AnErican feelings towards Japan. This morning's press
announced that thE Imperial RulE AssistancE Association
wculd tonight issuE a "protest to America". ThE Cabinet
Information BurEau later informed us that such a statement
would not (repEat not) bE issued.
(END MESSAGE)
GREW
TFV

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.91)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Tokyo
FROMDated Jamuary 22, 1941
Rec'd 10:45 a.m.
COPIES SENT TO
Dirision of
Storetary of State
O.NL.AND ALD.
F/D EASHEBU IRS
Washington
122/94
REK
Department of State
103, January 22, 9 o.m.
co
Today's vernaculars Exres3 gEneral anproval
CO
Foreign Hinister's Diet snEech, Emphasizin3 Extreme
gravity of present situation and difficulties facing
C.
Japan's dinlomacy. GEneral tone is anneal for modification
of American policy toward Janan. CugAI terms speech
332/205
adenuate renly recent assertions of President, 3Ecretary
State and other American atatemen.
In contrast A3AII Editorial critHcizes Forcign Minister
for :
(1) Failing Explain to mtion reagons German and
JAN 2 7 1941
Italian nonrecognition Nankinz Government; (2) Adopting
FTLED
too conci liatory attitudE toward Soviet Russia and (3)
Failing take more nositi ve stens in conflict between
Thailand and Indochina. Readers are rEminded that 3oviet
()
attitude toward Chim unchanged, that Janan-Chinn agreE-
ment io based on opposition to conmunism and are warned
not

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-#103, January 33, 9 p.m. from Tokyo
not over-Estimate significancE of a fisheries agrEement.
ReEnforcemEnt of national defensE 1s suggEsted as bEst
way to better JananesE-Soviet relations. JapanesE
policy toward America like that toward SoviEt Russia
should not bE attempt curry favor. Editorial concludes
with hopE that Matsuoka will spare no Effort carry out
Japan's racial faith "Light comes from thE East".
GREW
WSB

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Mile
EH
GRAY
ip
Moscow
FROM
COPIES SENT TO
Dated January 22, 1941
REK
REc'd 7:36 p.m.
Secretary of State,
EASTERN AIHS
Washington.
1941
Department of State
136, January 22, 6 p.m.
PRAVDA today notes briEfly and without comment the
74.032
opening of thE JapanEsE Parliament yEsterday, giving a
short factual summary of KonoyE's spEEch quoted from
DomEi
(END OF MESSAGE).
STEINHARDT
C
EMB
JAN19
C
C
l

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.98)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Policy of the Japanese Government is to conciliate the
894.032/207
United States: At large gathering of the America-
Japan Society three members of the Diet stated that
at the meeting of the Diet held today it was
announced that the -.
For the original paper from which reference is taken
FP
See Tel.#102, 8pm
(Deepatch, telegrom, instruction, letter, eto.)
DatedJan.22.1941
From
Japan (Grew)
To
File No.
711.94/1925
1-1840
hr

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.92)
9
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
EH
GRAY
FROM
O.N.1.
425/41 R1
Moscow
Dated January 24, 1941
REc'd 5:33 p.m.
A
Secretary of StatE,
yt
dele D
894.032/208
Washington.
A
146, January 24, 1 p.m.
My 136, January 22, 6 p.m.
PRAVDA today carries a Tass despatch from Tokyo
quoting thE Domei AgEncy which givEs a fairly long
summary of Matsuoka's spEech at thE opEning of the
JapanEsE ParliamEnt EspEcially thosE portions of thE
spEEch dEvotEd to thE quEstion of SoviEt-JapanEsE rElations.
No comment is madE.
894022
94
STEINHARDT
NPL

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.93)
FEt
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
GMW
BLAIN
FROM
Tokyo via Shanghai & N. R.
Dated January 23, 1941
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I.AND M.I.D
REc'd. 3 p.m., Jan. 25, 1941
1/27/41REA
A
Secretary of State,
Washington.
A
107, January 23, 5 p.m.
It was announced last night following a Cabinet con-
ferencE that the number of bills which the Government
had intended to introduce in this Diet session would
894.032/20
bE rEduced by half. Among bills cancelled arE ElEction
law reform bill, industrial guild bill, agricultural
organization bill, power distribution control bill,
local Government reform bill. The Government's decision
is said to bE a rEsponsE to thE "coopErativE" attitudE
6
of the HousE of Representatives in dEciding to prohibit
94.6
all interpellations of speeches by Cabinet Ministers,
Among bills considered indispensable to the wartime
structure which will bE introduced are: bill for revicion
cf national general mobilization law, national defens
security bill, a bill for revision of peacE maintenance
S
law, and bill to Extend term of membere of housE of
/GC
representatives and local assemblies by onE year.
Through this reduction in bills Diet deliberations are
EXPECtEd
P
a

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
-2- GMW 107, January 23, 5 p.m.
Expeoted to bE concluded by February ll.
While important bills providing for strengthening
of thE Economic structurE havE been abandoned, the
press statEs that thE samE Ends will bE achieved through
revision of the national general mobilization law.
Thus greater power over national economy will no doubt
bE centralized in thE Government.
Sent Department via airmail Shanghai.
GREW
GW

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.94)
DIVISION OF
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
ROPEAN ALFAIRS
RDS
GRAY
DEARTMENT OF STATE
TOKYO
FROM
10
Dated February 27, 1941
Rec'd 5:30 p.m., 26th
3
A
km
ashington.
A
320, FEbruary 27, 5 a.m.
894.03
In my conversation today with thE Foreign Minister
hE said that hE was vEry much annoyEd by the inaccuratE
01
publicity given abroad to his statements in committees in
thE DiEt and that hE had bEEn astonishEd to lEarn the
/2
other day from Sir Robert CraigiE that thE rEcords of
O
thEsE statements wErE not madE availablE to thE Diplomatic
894.032
Corps. HE said that hE had spoken of this to Mr. Kase,
his privatE sEcrEtary, who in thE futurE would sEE that
thEsE rEcords wErE madE availablE, but that if at any
timE I should wish to check upon any doubtful point I was
Ma1941
EntirEly at liberty to call him on thE tElephonE Even
night at his privatE residencE.
I thanked thE Minister for this suggestion but
pointed out that it would bE very difficult for us to
PS/JHS
know which werE doubtful and which werE not. Hitherto
our only channel for obtaining thesE records was the
vErnacular press sincE wE werE given no other reoords
and if inaccuracies occurred in our own rEports they wErE
solEly
210

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.96)
-2- #320, February 27, 5 a.m. from Tokyo.
solEly duE to this rEason. I also said that unless wE
could receivE thE official transcripts prior to or simul-
tanEously with thE press rEports wE would still havE to
cover ourselves with our owm Governments by reporting what
thE prEss said sincE, obviously, thesE wErE thE rEports
which would bE cabled to the prEss abroad. Mr. Matsuoka
asked mE to takE this matter up ith Mr. KasE. On lEaving
thE Minister's officE I had a discussion of thE point with
Mr. KasE, ho said that it would bE vEry difficult to havE
thesE official transcripts prepared vithin two or threE
days of thE utterancEs. E vErE furthErmorE informEd
that thE tExts of thesE utterancEs WErE not knoin EvEn to
thE officials in thE ForEign OfficE until rEcEivEd from
thE Diet sEveral days later and that thEy wErE rEgardEd
by the Diet as strictly confidential.
It does not appear thereforE that much if any im-
provement in this situation has bEen achiEved.
GREVW
EMB
7

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
EH
PLAIN
FROM
Tokyo via Shanghai & N.R.
Dated March 10, 1941
REc'd 4:40 a:m:, 11th.
A
SecrEtary of StatE,
Jiles
Washington.
O.N.1.
272/44K
A
384, March 10, 6 p.m.
894.032/211
Tonight's vernaculars report both houses Diet to
bE convenEd plEnary sEcrEt sEssion March fiftEEn to hEar
detailed reports from Prime Minister and Either Foreign
Minister or Foreign VicE Minister on matters foreign
policy particularly Thai-Indochina nEgotiations. This
will bE first Diet meeting sineE recess bEgan March two
when it was declared houses would bE reconvened should
ExigEncy arisE bEforE official tErmination of sEssion
March twenty-four.
Sent DEpartment via Shanghai.
MAR 13 1941
FILED
GREW
NK
PS/DB

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.97)
Japanese Parlia
 The Japanese
nuary 21, 1941
Washington, D.
Division
ADDRESSREETHP FOREIGN MINISTER
YOSUKMATSUOKA
JAN 22 1941
FEB
DIVISION CE
Department of State
It is needless to say that the aim of Japan's fores
polioy is that of enabling all nations of the world each to
take its own proper place, in acoordance with the spirit of
BCR
"hakko iohiu," the very ideal which inspired the foundation
of our Empire. The object of the Three Power Pact concluded
betwoen Japan, Germany and Italy on September 27 last is none
othor than realization of the same great ideal. We are one
and all profoundly moved that His Majesty the Emperor was
graciously pleased to grant an Imperial Rescript on the con-
894.032
olusion of the Pact, clearly indicating to the nation the path
which they should follow.
The Three Power Pact stipulates that Germany and Italy
894.032/212
recognize and respect the leadership of Japan in the establish-
ment of the new order in Greater East Asia. It is our avowed
purpose to bring all peoples in Greater East Asia to revert
to their innate and proper aspect, promoting conciliation and
cooperation among them and thereby setting an example of uni-
versal concord. The Pact also provides that Japan recognize
and reapect the leadership of Germany and Italy in their similar
endeavours in Europe. Far from antagonizing any country, the
Paot is an embodiment of peaceful but powerful cooperation
direoted towards establishment of a new world order. In ac-
cordance with provisions of this treaty, arrangements have
already been made for setting up mized commissions at the
cap:tals of the three countries. Friendly relations between
FEB 4 1941
FILED
three nations are thus becoming evermore closer, politically,
militarily, eoonomically and culturally, During the month of
Movember last, the Pact was adhered to by Hungary, Rumania and
It neek mot be repeated that the keynote of Japan's
teel of "nkke iciu" nd tt it rvel

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.99)
parties undertake to assist one another with all political,
economic and military means if one of the contracting part-
ies is attacked by a power at present not involved in the
European war or in the Sino-Japanese conflict. In case such
attack should be made, the obligation stipulated by this
Article would of course arise. Incidentally, reference may
be made to Italy's military operations. There appear to be
various species of malicious propaganda circulated in this
respect, but I have no doubt that our ally, Italy, will attain
her object before long.
Of the nations in Greater East Asia, Manchoukuo has
special and inseparabl relations with this country. As you
are aware, during the ten years which have already elapsed
since her emergence as an independent nation, her national
foundations have become strong and secure while her inter-
national position has been greatly enhanced.
Her teeming
millions are enjoying an increasing measure of prosperity.
In June of last year the Emperor of Manchoukuo paid a visit
to Japan to offer his felicitations personally to our Imperial
House on the auspicious occasion of the 26o0th anniversary of
the foundation of our Empire. This is a source of genuine
congratulation for the peoples of Japan and Manchoukuo as it
is a conspiouous manifestation of the unique relations sub-
sisting between the two nations, sharing, as they do, common
aims and aspirations. By the Sino-Japanese basic treaty con-
luded with the National Government at Nanking, and through
'ne oint declaration made by Japan, Manchoukuo and China. tre
Republic of China recognized Manchoukuo, with the result het
an exchange of ambassadors has been arranged between them.
Thus, Japan has recognized the Nanking Government as the govern-
ment of the Republic of China.
Japan is now determined to go forward in the wcrk of
ataslilnine e Far Fast first and foremost in cooperet.in
witn dcnchtkuo and China and then of oreating a sphare of
comin prssperity tiroughout Greater East Asia. In view of
such deveicpmauts, it has been found desirable to consolidnt?

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
economic relations between Japan, Manchoukuo, and China on
one side and Germany on the other. Negotiations are now under
way for this purpose.
Inasmuch as an early settlement of the China affair is
desirable in the interest of the creation of this sphere of
common prosperity throughout Greater East Asia, the present
government ever since its formation has urged Chiang Kai-shek's
regime to reconsider and reverse its attitude with a view to
bringing about an amalgamation with the Nanking government,
but it remains still struggling against Japan. The Chiang
regime, however, is riddled with internal disruptions and
frictions which are rapidly growing acute, while the masses
under its control are suffering from high prices, a dearth of
commodities, and other severe tribulations. While the armed
resistance of Chiang's regime has notably declined, Chinese
communist troops have greatly gained in influence, with the
result that they are steadily encroaching upon the sphere of
influence of the Chungking armies. The leader in Chungking
now seems to be greatly harassed by the rampancy of the com-
munist forces. Despite its being in such a miserable plight,
the Chiang regime is still advocating national reconstruction
through continued resistance &guinst Japan. This is due to
its misplaced hopes in assistance from Great Britain and the
United States, especially the latter, and also to past cir-
cumstances, the effects of which that regime cannot easily es-
cape.
In June of last year Great Britain temporarily suspended
the traffic of goods destined for the Chiang regime by the
Hongkong and Burma routes. On October l8 of last year, how-
ever, following the announcement of the Three Power Paot, that
country reopened the Burma route and has since been trying to
transport goods by that route. Furthermore, Great Britain re-
cently granted the Chiang regime a ten million pound sterling
loan. About the same time the United States to offered a
loan of one hundred million dollars. The latter country is

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
endeavol.ring to extend assistance to Grea' Britain on a
large scale by mobilizing her entire resources, while the
Burma route is being seriously and successively damaged by
appropriate measures taken by our loyal and gallant air forces.
It seems highly problematical, therefore, what assistance
Great Britain and the United States can actually afford the
Chiang regime.
In the light of such international situation the Japa-
nese Government, in pursuance of their fixed policy, recognized
the National Government at Nanking and concluded on November
30 of last year with the latter a Sino-Japanese basic treaty.
This treaty embodies three basic principles of good neighbour-
liness, economic cooperation, and joint defense against commun-
ist activities. It stipulates that both Japan and China shall
respect each other's sovereignty and territorial integrity and
undertake close economic cooperation on the basis of equality
and reciprocity, and that Japanese forces shall be stationed
in certain specific areas in Mengchiang and North China. Not
only does Japan demand no territorial cessions and no indemnit-
ies, but she has willingly pledged to China a policy of abolish-
ing extruterritoriality and also of restoring concessions to
China. This is eloquent testimony of her sincere desire for
the attainment of a morel union of Asiatic peoples. Now that
the basic treaty has been signed and the joint declaration by
Japan, Manchoukuo and China issued, it is incumbent upon us
to conoentrate our efforts on assisting the Nanking government
to develop into the general government of China both in name
and in fact.
Let me now make a brief survey of our relations with
the Netherlands East Indies, French Indo-China, and Thailand,
whioh lie within the above-mentioned sphere of common pros-
pericy. The Metherlands East Indies and French Indo-China,
if emly for geogmaphical reasons, should be in an intimate end
lo relassemsaip with our country, Therbfore the situ-
hee mitherte thvarted tho dovelopment of shie matural
mees de shesougly pepedied and relatione of sood

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
eighbourliness sucured for the promotion of mutual prosperity
With this in view, early in September last our govern-
ment dospatched Mr. Ichizo Kobayashi, Minister of Commerce and
Industry, to the Netherlands East Indies as a special envoy.
Mr. Kobayashi was obliged to return to Japan by circumstancos
preventing his prolonged sojourn abroad when a definite stage
had been reuched in his negotiations with Netherlands East
Indies authorities concorning purchases of oil and other ur-
gent questions. As his successor, our government have recently
sent to the Netherlunds East Indies Mr. Kenkichi Yoshizuwa,
formerly Minister of Foreign Affairs. He has already resumed
negotiations with the Netherlands Eust Indies.
As regards French Indo-Chin., it formed the most im-
portant route of supply for Chungking since the beginning of
the China affair. However, upon the sudden change in the
Europoan situation last June, & ch:nge his occurred in rola-
tions between Japan and French Indo-Chine, resulting in clos-
uro of the border between Fronch Indo-China and China itself
and entry by agreement of Japanesc armed forces into French
Indo-China. Negotiations are now in progress in Tokio on the
basis of notes exchanged between the French Ambassador and
myself in August last. It is my opinion that realization by
France of the necessity for cooperation with Japan in the light
of the new situation in the world in general and in East Asia
in particular is responsible for this development.
In connection with the French Indo-China question, I
should like to refer to relutions between our country and
Thailand. It may be recalled that at the General Assembly of
the League of Nations dealing with the Manchurian affair in
1933, the Thai delegate did not leave the assembly hall but
remained in his seat and boldly announced his abstention from
voting. This is still fresh in the memory of our pecple. In
June of Iast year & treaty of ar'ty and neutrality was conoluded
by Japan with Thailand with the exchange of ratifications com
ed  Dueember 23 at Bangkok. The bonde of friendahip be-

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.98)
ont is now stirring the Thai peopl: for recovery of lost terri-
tories which are at present incorpoated in French Indo-China.
Thai troops are confronting French ndo-China forces across
the border with frequent conflicts occurring between them.
Japan, the leader in East Asia, cannot afford to remain in-
different to such a dispute, which she hopes will be settled
at the earliest possible opportunity.
An exchange of diplomatic representatives has taken
place between Japan and Australia. We expect that the two
countries will make contributions toward he promotion of the
peace of the Pacific by further advancing their friendly rela-
tions through cordial cooperation and elimination of unnecessary
misunderstandings.
Relations between Japan and Near Eastern countries have
recently increased in cordiality. Our ratification of a treaty
of amity with Iran is only one of many proofs that illustrate
this happy state of affairs.
Japan and Argentina have greed to elevate the status
of their legations in each other's country to that of embas-
sies. With Brazil a cultural agreement was signed in September
last and it has already been sanctioned by His Majesty the
Emperor. Relations between Japan and Brazil are thus growing
more and more cordial. It is a matter for hearty congratula-
tions that Japan and those Latin American countries have of
recent years become increasingly closer in their political,
economic, and cultural relations.
While these diplomatic relations have taken such a
favourable turn, the development of the European war has ob-
liged us to suspend or withdraw temporarily in that region some
of our diplomatio establishments. But Japan's diplomatic ser-
vioe abroad is being steadily strengthened on the prinoiple of
attaching special inportance to specific countries. We are
sepecially reinforcing our jiplcmatic nechinery js Greater
otAsia.
In establishing e sphere of common prosperity in
Mast Asia and asuring the peace of the Orie, t i

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.97)
desirable that present diplomatic relations between Japan
and the Soviet Union should be left as they are. Utmost ef-
forts are being made, therefore, to remove mutual misunderstand-
ing and if possible to bring about & fundamentel and far reach-
ing adjustment of diplomatic relations. We are pursuing nego-
tiations at this moment upon such questions as frontier demar-
cation between Manchoukuo and Outer Mongolia, fisheries, and
Japanese concessions in North Saghclien. Some of these pend-
ing issues are now well on the way to settlement. On this
point both Germany and Italy share Japan's desire. The pro-
visions of Article Five of the Three Power Pact also make it
clear, in accordance with the above-mentioned intention of
Japan, that the Pact is not directed against the Soviet Union.
We earnestly hope that the Soviet Union will understand Japan's
true intentions and that the two countries, actuated by a spirit
of mutual concession and conciliation, will succeed in achiev-
ing a readjustment of their relations.
Japan's foreign trade, with the exception of that with
Manchoukuo and China, is conducted mostly with Great Britain
and the United States and their respective colonies and pos-
sessions. Since notifying Japan of the abrogation of the
Treaty of Commerce and Navigation in July of 1939, the United
States has been enforcing in succession embargoes or restric-
tions on exports to Jepan of aircraft, arms and ammunition,
aviation gasoline, machine tools, scrap iron, iron and steel
manufactures, copper, nickel and other important war materials,
while the British Dominions and colonies are in various ways
interfering with Japan's shipping. The Japanese Government
have lodged protests egainst such actions on each ocoasion, but
this tendenoy has recantly been so greatly aggravated that
Japan must meet the situation adequately prepared. No other
sourme is left to Japan but to go forward with perfeoting her
sese for a higaly organized national defense,not
ber to meet this pressure I have refesred to but also
osmie life of selfmy and self-sufftoimnems
efGreete Bst At.

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
In this connection I should like to refer to our rela-
tions with the United States. The United States has evinced
no adequate understanding of the fact that the establishment
of a sphere of common prosperity throughout Greater East Asia
is truly a matter of vital concern to Japan. She apparently
entertains an idea that her own first line of national defense
lies along the mid-Atlantic to the east but westward not only
along the Eastern Pacific but even as far as China and the South
Seas. If the United States assumes such an attitude it would be,
to say the least, a very one-sided contention on her part to
cast reflections on our superiority in the Western Pacific by
suggesting that it betokens ambitious designs. I for one be-
lieve that such & positicn assumed on the part of the United
States would not be calculated to contribute to the promotion
of world peace. Speaking frankly, I should extremely regret
such an attitude of the United States for the sake of Japanese-
Amerioan friendship. for the sake of poace in the Pacific, and
also for the sake of the peace of the world in general. It is
my earnest hope thst a great nation exerting the influence that
the United States legitimately does will realize her responsi-
bility for the maintenance of peace, will reflect deeply on her
attitude with truly God-fearing piety, will couregeously liqui-
date past circumstances and bend her utmost efforts to allay the
impending crisis of civilization.
The prevailing confusion of the international situation
shows no sign of subsiding, but on the contrary it tends to in-
erease. Should the United States unfortunately become involved
in the European war ond should Japan, too, be compelled to par-
ticipate in that war, another great world war, both in name and
reality, would ensue, precipitating a situation which would
defy all attempt at saving it. Should war teke ite furious
course, unleashing formidable new weapons which have not hither.
so been sed, do one could guarantee thet it would not develop
aree Power Paot has been eonoluded far tme pur

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
of a sphere of common prosperity throughout Gronter Eust Asia
but of proventing, in its course, ny further extension of the
present disturbances. We must endeuvour to terminete the cur-
rent war as speedily us possible and to settle the chaos in
which the world is plunged. Wo must meanwhile study in ad-
vance to discover some formula for prevention of the recurrence
of any such disturbance in the future.
With an unbroken line of Emperors reigning since its
foundation, our Empire constitutes : unique family state, un-
perallelled in the world for unity and solidarity which grows
stronger with every national omergency. It is recssuring,
moreover, to observe that the Jepanese Empire is endowed with
u most favor ble geogrephical condition, powerful enough to
influence the course of world politics. The estublishment of
a new world order, the goal of the Three Power Pact, if only
time be given, will surely b. accomplished. There is no room
for doubt thut it will be crowned with brillint success.
If the Japenese people are fully and firmly prepared
for this task, the future of our Empire will indeed by great
and glorious. In concluding my ddress, I respectfully pay
my tribute to the spirits of those loyal end veliant officers
and men, our countrymen, who have fallen in action, and at the
same time I tender my warm thanks tc the armed forces of our
nation for enduring so many hardships and privtions, devoting
to them my most sincero wishes for every success in the field.

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
HR
FROM
PLAIN
Tokyo via Shanghai & NR
TO
Dated March 15, 1941
REc'd 5:15 a.m., 16th.
K
894.032/213
Secretary of State,
Washington.
413, March 15, 8 p.m.
Both houses DiEt mEt sEcret sEssion today hEard
reports Thailand-Indochina mEdiation, general inter-
national situntion and progress China incident from
Prime Minister, Foreign Minister and Ministers Army
nd Vavy.
GREW
WSB
894.032
MAR18194
FILED
PS
/DB

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
JR
PL.IN
Tokyo vir Shenghai & N.R.
FROM
DetEd Mrch 26, 1941
A
REc'd 2:12 p.m., 29th.
894:032/214
Secretary of Stote,
Washington.
WAA
y01/4
464, Ma.rch 26, 6 p.m.
(SECTICN ONE)
The sEventy-sixth sEssicn cf thE Imperial Diet which
cpened Jenuary 21 end hes been in recess sincE Merch 2
wEs formerly closed todey. ThE Diet cpproved ε budget
of morE then yen thirteen billion εnd pessed Eighty seven
Mobilization Law and thE National DEfensE
bills including revision of the Neticnel/Security Lew.
Editorial comment praises thE unprecedented spEEd
with which the legislativε progrem wes enacted but
criticizes dissensicn εmong Diet members εnd persistencE
of cld perty alignments. ThE MIYaKo dEscribes thE Diet
cs lacking positivε politiccl character εnd stctes thet
/JHS
it hrs failed to contributE politically to the
APR1三1941
89
construction of East .sia. Controversy over the
FILED
Imperial Rule .ssistencE ssociction is characterized εs
a weste of Energy end the Diet is blamed for.
neglecting the most urgent issuE of thE dEy, Establishment
of the great Ecst sic coprosperity sphere.
GREW
CSB

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
JR
PLA IN
Tokyo vic Shanghai & N. R.
FROM
Deted Mcrch 26, 1941
REc'd 2:10 F.m., 29th.
Secretery of StatE,
Weshington.
464, Mcrch 26, 6 p.m. (SECTION TWO).
ThE world I olitical situction is steted to a fford
Japan : uniquE pportunity which must not bE missEd
Especiclly :s thr United Ststes is EngrossEd in ciding
Englrnd and is not ExpEcted to Extend its spherE of
activity in thE Pacific beyond thE Philippines. ThE
urgency cf Jepan's grasping thE present opportunity to
solvE thE Netherlands East Indies problEms and to sEcurE
Essenticl rew matericls is EmphesizEd
Yomiuri praises to thE frank discussiens in the
presEntDiet session end states thet lEsscns for the
futurE cen bE learned from difficulties EncounterEd in
thE present pericd cf trensition from an old tc & new
structure. However thE persistencE of politicel
pertisanship end former party loyalities is deplored.
The Government is criticized for failing to Explein fully
end precisely politicel issues end Diet members are
blemed for the inedequacy of their int erpellations.
Discussions

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.97)
-2- #464, March 26, 6 p.m. (SECTION TWO) from Tokyo.
Discussions of the Imperial RulE ssistoncE ssociation
havE shown thet no politiccl structurE can usurp the
prerogatives of thE constitutin. Extension of the
term of Diet members and postponement of thE gen eral
Election crE &dmittEd to bE steps dEmandEd by thE present
situation but a thorough reorganization of a new Diet
structurE is considered Essenticl. Sent Department via
Shanghai. (END MESSAGE)
GREW
CSB

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.96)
MR. HURNBLCK
ADVISER
TIONS
DEPARTMENTOF STATE - 1941
May 1, 1941
CO:
4mH:
PA/H:
FASK
Tokyo's despatch no. 5496, April 7, 194l.
The Ambassador points out important
differences in procedure and organization
between the latest and previous Diet ses-
ions. All political parties had been
dissolved but the question of a substitute
for formal party organization of the Diet
was obviated by acceptance of the Govern-
ment's proposal that partisan debate on
leglslation be omitted.d Jhe Diet agreed
to abandon interpolations of Cabinet
ministers during plenary sessions. In re-
turn, the administration gave up presenta-
tion of about half of the legislative bills
originally proposed. Some of these were of
a highly controversial nature--for example,
Industrial Organization Control Bill and
Election Law Reform Bill which had been
widely criticized, and the Power Distribution
Control Bill, Agricultural Organization
Control Bill, and Local Government Reform
Bill. Since the highly desirable ateration
of the present election system was not ob-
tained, the terms of present members of the
Diet were extended for one year.
Important legislation designed to
further mobilize national efforts and
centralize governmental control included a
law

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2
law revising the National General Mobiliza-
tion Law,aNational Defense Security Law,
and the Peace Maintenance Law.
Contrasted with the Diet's docility
in accepting the admin1stration's legislative
program, there were outspoken criticisms of
the Imperial Rule Assistance Association
and efforts,which were defeated, to reduce
the appropriation for that organization.
The future role of the Diet remains
obscure and there is exhibited willingness
to withhold exercise of power of criticism
and obstruction. Nevertheless more favorable
internal and external conditions might
conceivably lead to a resurgence of political
parties. The Diet remains jealous of its
prerogatives, and the concern of the Prime
Minister in seeking advance cooperetion of
leading Diet members does not indicate dis-
regard and contempt for the legislatfo
"which might be expected in a thoroughly
totalitarian state".
894.032/215
Q
FE:Schmidt:FRE

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.90)
F
MH.
41/14
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, April 7, 1941.
No. 5496
SUBJECT: SEVENTY-SIXTH SESS 1O. OF THE JAPAIESE DIET
C he
7
763
WWA
894.032/2
Copy in 7E
4
1ir4.l
RECEIVE
1911
0
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
PS/LB
With reference to the Embassy's telegram no. 464,
March 26, 6 p.m., summarizing press comment in regard
FILED
to the accomplishments and proceeuings of the seventy-
sixth session of the Imperial Diet, I have the honor to
submit the following observations on this Diet session,
whioh formally closed on March 26, 194l, and to point out
important

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
important differences in procedure and or aniratin which
distinguish it from preceding Diet sessions.
As the Diet was meetin ror the first time since the
dissolution of all political parties represented in the
House of Representtives, the uestion of a workable sub-
stitute to discharge their funct on, in connectio with de-
liberations on proposed legislation, gave rise to consid-
erable speculution and confusion. The Diet Bureau of the
Imperial Rule Assistance Association, with a membership
drawn from members of the House of Representatives might,
it was tnought, act as the mov in: force in guidin and con-
trolling deliberations alon, channels predetermined by the
Government, and the Diet Members' Club organized in Decem-
ber, 1940, with a memvership arawn fror former adherents of
the defunct parties, ire.uently was mentioned as a possible
nucleus for a strong new political party. No substitute
for political parties materialized, nowever, nor was one
really necessary, as even before the Diet reassembled on
January 2l, following: its New Yeur recess, it secame evi-
dent that the Government proposed to secure the enactment
of its legislative program without havin to contend with
interference in the form of partisan debate. In roundtable
conferences with leaders of the Upper and Lower Houses on
January 14 and 15, Premier Konoe urged national unity and
the sacrifice of personal interest to assist the Government
in tiding over the difficult international situation. The
obvious object of these conferences was to forestall criti-
cism and opposition to the measures to be introduced into
the Diet. On the whole, the Government was suocessful. The
present

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
present session, frequently referred to as the "Imperial
Rule Assista:ce Diet" proved amenable to the Government's
wishes approving an unprecedentedly large budget and pass-
ing the Government's bills without appreciable opposition.
With the re-opening of the Diet on January 21, its
cooperative attitude was promptl: cemonstrated by e volun-
tary decision reache: among its members to abandon inter-
pellations of Cabinet ministers in plonary sessions of the
Diet. This concession was of oovious importance both in
expediting legislative business and in relieving Cabinet
ministers of the burden of explainin controversial elements
of the Government's progran and policies. This was imme-
diately followed by the announcement of a Cabinet decision
to abandon about half the bills cheduled for presentation
to the present Diet session.* A number of the principal
bills abandoned by the Government appear to be of a nighly
controversial nature which, if retained, might have aroused
active opposition and threatened the smooth and rapid enact-
ment of the whole logislative program. For example, the
aba. doned Industrial Organization Control Bill had already
aroused serious opposition in financial circles, and the
abandoned Election Law Reform Bill, which envisaged sweep-
ing changes in the electoral system and in qualifications
Ior the franchise, had been widely criticized. Other note-
worthy legislation which was dropped included the Power
Distribution Control Bill, the Agricultural Organization
Control Bill and the Local Government Reform Bill.
Although the Election Law Reform Bill was not presented
to
Embassy's telegram no. 107, January 23, 5 p.m.
894.032/209

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.99)
-4
to the Diet, the Government still hopes eventually to se-
cure the enactment of le islat ion to alter the present elec-
tion system. Therefore, as a regular election under the
old law was scheouled for this year, to elect representa-
tives for a four-year term, the Government introduced and
secured passage of a bill extending for one year the terms
of present members of the House of Representatives and local
assemblies. Other important Government-sponsored legisla-
tion included the Bill for Revision of the at onal General
Mobilization Law*, the National Defense Security Bill*, and
the Peace Haintenance Law. All these latter bills repre-
sent further erforts to supply necessary legisletion for
the mobilization or the nation on an efficient wartime foot-
ing, and to centralize control in Government hands.
Although the Diet displayed unexampled docility in
acquiescing to tue Government's ready-made legislative pro-
gram, it shoulu not be forgotten that on one subject, namely,
the Imperial Rule Assistance Associ tion, the legislators
were outspokenly critical. As Diet discussions of this is-
sue have been previ usly reported***, no detailed review of
the subject will be undertaken in the present despatch. It
will be recalled, however, that the uestion of obtaining
an appropriation for the support of the Imperial Rule Assis-
tance Association afforded an opportunity for critics of
that organization and its objectives to air their views in
the Diet. While the requested appropriation, ¥8,000,000,
was authorized, discussion of the subject, including a de-
feated
Embassy's despatch no. 5483, April 2, 1941.
Embassy's despatch no. 5494, April 7, 1941.

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.96)
-5-
feated motion to reduce the re uested a vropristion to
¥3,000,000, seriously lowered tne prestige of the Associa-
tion and was probably instrumental in br ning about the
recent shake-up in its personnel* and important changes in
its organization.**
Opposition to the Associ tion may appear difficult to
reconcile with the Diet's generally cooper tive attitude to-
ward wishes of the Government. It must be remembered, how-
ever, thet meny Diet memvers, particulurl former party
leaders, see in the objectives of the Imperial Rule Assis-
tance Association a permanent thret to parliamentary govern-
ment i.. Japan. It is uite understandable that in any coun-
try the legislature might agree to suspend temporarily the
full exercise of its prerogatives in res onse to pleas from
the cnief executive for fullest cooperation to tide over a
national emergency. ven such pleas could hardly be expect-
ed to rove successful, however, in silencin criticisn in
the legislature of an or aniz tio which threatens to usurp
the legislature's runctions. It is this li ht that Diet
opposition to the Imperial Rule Assistance Associ tiun should
be interpreted.
As sideli hts on the latest Diet sessio.. it may be of
interest to recall the illness of Premier Konoe wnich result-
ed in his aosence from the Diet during the major part of its
main session, the temporary flurry occasioned by the Foreign
Minister's remarks on the subject of colonization by Asiatics
of Oceania*** and the secret sessior convened on March 15****
to
Embassy's telegram no. 472, March 27, 6 p.m. 894.00/1013
**
Embassy's telegram no. 502, April 3, 3 p.m.
841100/1017
*丰*
Embassy's despatch no. 5438, March 13, 1941.
740.00110w/172
Embassy's telegram no. 413, March 15, 8 p.m.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
to hear reports on the Thailand-Indochina medi tion and the
general international situation frou the Prime Minister,
the Foreign Vice Minister and the Army and Navy Ministers.
The press hinted strongly thot the Prime inister's "ill-
ness" might be a convenient pretext for escap ng Diet quest-
ioning. The fact that he emerged aain very soon after the
main sessio recessed on March 2 was interpreted as lending
support to the suggestic: tht his illness was political.
It is dilficult to perceive from the record of its lat-
est session any clear-cut in dications of the future role
of the Diet in Japanese Government. The Diet nas snown it-
self subservient to the will of the Government and willing
to hold in abeyance potential powers of criticism and ob-
struction. That is no guarantee, however, that it would
tolerate indefinitely the suppression of its political ac-
tivities. On the contrary, slishtly more favorable internal
and exterual co: aitions might conceivably lead to a resur-
gence of the old political party system. Thet it is jealous
of its prerogatives was amply demonstrated by the Imperial
Rule Assistance Associati n controversy. Furthermore, the
concern shown by the Prime Minister in seeking to secure
in advance the cooperation of leading Diet members, and the
decision of the Cabinet to abandon bills of a controversial
nature, do not reflect a disreard and contempt for the le-
gislature wnich might ve expected in a thoroughly totalitarian
state.
Respectfully yours
Joseph C. Grew.
803
CAO:rk
Original and four copies to the Department.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.95)
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. AND M.J.D.
7-19.41
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
PLAIN
GS
Tokyo via Shanghai & N.R.
FROM
Dated July 11, 1941
Red'd 11:15 a.m., 12th
Disch
FAR EASTERIAFFARS
Secretary of State,
394.032/
Washington.
Department of S
982, ElEventh, 4 p.m.
All vernadulars this norning fecture articles
stating opinion prevails in Governnent and mong Diet
and financial dircles that spEcial Diet sEssion should
9
bE convened next nonth. Following deternination national
policy by Imperial ConferencE July two, now states nEcess-
ary consolidate national dEtermination through DiEt
and submnt propEr bills copE nE: situation. Only one
special Diet sEssion has been convened sincE beginning
P
China incident and in view present unprecedented vErious
situation national unanmity cooperation vitally Essential.
Finanoial Econonic circles states dEsirous Government
EnunolatE concretE Econonic mEaBuree to mEEt pending
problems such as trade adjustment, supply demand materials
within copr sperity sphere, inorensed prodyotiop and price
policy.
AsHAI tates strengthening Cabinet'gpolitical power,
issur pending sinoE Establishment Imperial Rule Assistance
Association

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.98)
-2- 982, ElEvEnth, 4 p.m. from Tokyo
Association, not yEt completely attained notwithstanding
oErtain personnel changes.
KOKUMIN states Extraordinary sEssion strongly dEmand-
Ed sincE Government should report to nation on inter-
national situation and progress China incident.
Sc far Government has merely announced that important
national policy w-s dEcided. JapanesE nation partic-
ularly wants know Japan's attitudE toward GErman
Soviet war. Extraordinary sEssion clarifying situation
would bE EffectivE in strengthening wartimE national
front.
NICHI NICHI states "wE bEliEvE 1t most urgent
that spEcial Diet sEssion bE called imnEdiately in
order show at honE and abroad Japan's united front and
preparednEss mEet China nd international situation."
Sent DEpartment via Shanghai.
GREW
ALC

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
ision of
FAN EASDERN FFAIRS
PLAIN
MA
FROM
Tokyo via Shanghai
and N. R.
Dated NovEmber 15, 1941
COPH
0.
REc'd. 4:43 a.m., 16th
SEcrEtary of StatE,
Washington.
894.032/217
1806, NovEmbEr 15, 2 p.m.
ADVERTISER. Extraordinary DiEt sEssion "through
which thE strong dEtErmination of thE Tojo CabinEt
for creating the East Asia coprospErity sphErE and
disposing of thE China affair will bE clarified" con-
vEnEd today completion organization by noon. OpEn-
ing cErEmony tomorrow morning in impErial prEsEncE
894032
and actual businEss will start Monday morning with
delivery spEeches PrimE Minister, Foreign and Finan-
cEs Ministers. Doctor Ogawa former Railways Minister
rEprEsenting LowEr HousE will quEry ministerial
ON
FILED
spEEches. On samE day bill for rEvision air dEfEns
law, bill for Extraordinary postal law, and bill for
1941
rEvision military sErvicE law will bE submitted to
UppEr HousE whilE other important bills including
Extraordinary additional budget for army navy and in-
crEasE indirEct tax will bE introducEd to LowEr
P
HousE.
S
210

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.98)
-2- #1806, NovEmber 15, 2 p.m. from Tokyo.
HousE. REmaining two days of sEssion will bE dEvotEd
committEE dElibEration on bills and all arrangEmEnts
will bE complEtEd by NovEmbEr twenty for closing sEs-
sion.
SEnt DEpartmEnt via Shanghai.
REpEated to thE DEpartment.
GREW
WWC

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 20, X94Bivision of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JAN 13
JAN231843
NOTED
Jile
DepartmenPof State
Mr. Downs of the Foreign Broadcast Intelligence Bervice
telephoned Mr. Benninghoff at 9:40 a.m. and stated that
according to rather indistinot broadoasts from Tokyo, monitored
at Portland, Oregon, 1t seems definitely established that the
894.032/
reconvening of the Japanese Diet soheduled for January 21 has
been postponed; that there were indioations in the broadoast
that this postponement had "something to do" with Premier Tojo
personally. Mr. Downs states that the broadoast was quite
2
indistinot, that he is endeavoring to obtain clarifying de-
c
tails and that he will telephone Mr. Benninghoff as soon as
he has any further information.
The information thus received is too fragmentary to
afford the basis for intelligent interpretation. Ofricers
of the Department having experience in Japan do not recall
any ocoasion where the reconvening of the Diet was postponed
for any cause other than some internal political orisis.
Therefore 1t is likely that something serious, more than,
for example, the illness of the Prime Minister, has oocurred.
u
N
P
2
S
3.1943
FE:BenningHorr:MJF
/CF
40
11

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVIBION OF
FEB 23 1943
BY COURIER
UNITE
十
Buenos Aires, Argentina, February 5, 1943
Central Information Office
(C.I.O.) Report
No. 8552
SUBIECT: JAPANESE EIGHTY-FIRST DIET RECONVENES MAINLY
TO PASS BUDGET.EASURES.
S
ÉEINVED
o
LOWER HOUSE IN CALERA FOR FIRST TILAE.
DIET HEARS ANNOUNCEENT OF NE: BRILLLANT
6
RECE
N
SOLONONSESULTS.
F.
R
CONIDENTIAL
C
6
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Naeninston
C
Sir:
I have the honor to report that the local Japanese
219
press beginning January 28, 1943, has carried Domei
New Agency reports fron Tokyo regarding the reconvening
of the eignty-first Diet on January 28, 1943, with work-
ing sessions startin from February 1. In view of the
importance of the measures, especially budvet measures
to be considered, tne Lower iouse is re ortedly holding
secret sessions for the first time in its history during
the discussion of oud et and other conridential matters
and during interpolations. It is also stated that the
holding of sessions in car.era will perilit a thorough-
going and frank discussion of overnmental policy.
If the attitude of Japanese in argentina is any cri-f
terion, the government is due for considerable criticism
which it apparently does not wish to have aired in public.
In this connection refe ence is made to the Embassy's
despatch No. 8527 of February 3, 1943, on the subject:
"Dissension in tne Japanese Community in Argentina". IT
there is no truth to the Japanese announcement of ne
brilliant successes off tennel Island in the Solomon
PS/H
in which the Japanese clain to have sunk and damaged
seven American battleships and cruisers, it may be as-
sumed that the story was fabricated just in time to give
the Diet a badly needed injection of morale, in view of
the long period during whioh the Japanese have been giten
little

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
little cause for jubilation. It is reported that the
Navy inister's announcement of the .ennel Island suc-
cesses was given a tremendous ovation by the Diet.
The government reportedly introduced 88 bills to the
Diet, 39 of which went to the fouse of Peers and 49 to
the House of Representatives.
A supplemental budget for Yen 2,345,444,000 for general
accounts for the 1943 fiscal year (aprii 1, 1943 through
Larch 31, 1944) is to be considered by this Diet. This
amount is in addition to the  ain general accounts budget
of Yen 9,996,000,000 alrcady decided upon, as reported in
despatch No. 7647 of Dece  ber 21, 1942. In addition, this
Diet will consider military bud cts and extraordinary spe-
cial accounts budrets in undisclosed amounts.
It is reported that 36 Diet embers have expressed a
desire to ask questions about the budret. It is exuected
that consideration of the cud ot ill require about ten
days. It is announced that ot er enerai uestions which
will receive attention ure the increesing or war production,
foreign relations, lebor, an vgricultural problens. The
problems or reorganizstion or t e governmental structure
within e country, an popular move.ents will be considered
on the last day o the Liet. Sovern entul reorganization
refers to the proposed unirication and coordimtion of
Japanese city, town and villare overnents, especially
public services.
In his openin speech to the Diet on January 28, Pre-
mier Tojo dwelt upon Jepan's aciievements to date and
stressed the ur ent need of increasing production under
governmental manage.ent. .e also promised Burma its in-
dependence, and said that Japan would do everything pos-
sible to enable India to achieve its independence." Fur-
thermore he reiterated his statement of last year that as
soon as the Filipinos understand Japan's true intentions
and cooperate in constructing the new order in East Asia
the Philippines will be given their independence too. It
would thus appear that the Filipinos are not yet given to
"understanding and cooperation" in the manner approved by
the Japanese.
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
First Secretary of Embassy
File No. 820.02
Dup.
GW:mc
2

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MR HUHBECK
JUN161943
The Special Session of the Japanese Diet
and Soviet-Japaneso Relations
According to Tokyo radio broadcasts, as monitored by
the Federal Broadcast Intelligence Service, Premier General
Tojo has o∞nvened the Japanese Diet for a three-day extra-
ordinary session beginning on June 15, 1943. This session,
it has been announced, will be concerned with additional
budgetary matters and with legislation for increased pro-
duction. The Tokyo radio has devoted much time during
the past two weeks to descriptions in the usual vague terms
of bills which will be presented by the Government and
which are designed to "increase the national fighting
strength". Reports of meetings of the Imperial Rule
Assistance Association (the IRAA) and allied organizations
have also been given prominence, and the impression is
received that the Japanese Government has been preparing
the country to accept an added burden of restrictions and
control. The President of the Cabinet Planning Board has
894.032/220
been quot tating that the new plans will "go far
beyond any previous measures in affecting Japanese economic
life, and that in the future all production, plants, raw
materials and manpower will without exoeption be channeled
into war produotion".
Notwithstanding the reasons officially advanoed by the
Japanese Government for convening the Diet in special ses-
sion, and notwithstanding the time and effort apparently
being spent by cabinet ministers, politicians and others
in preparation for the session, it has been suggested by
certain persons in the United States that the real reason
for convening the Diet at this time may be one which has not
been given any publicity whatsoever. Such persons have
advanced the view that the Diet is perhaps being convened
for the purpose of using it as a sounding board to whip up
the Japanese nation to a point where it will accept willingly
war with Soviet Russia. The proponents of this thesis 
P
point out that the previous special session of the Diet was
ILED
S
convened by Tojo on November 16, 1941 less than a month 
before Pearl Harbor; that during the last session of the 
Diet (ending Maroh i943) Tojo received all the powers nece-
T
sary to carry out any measures he desires; and that as the
S
largest budget in Japanese history was adopted at that time
it 1s hardly likely that the Japanese Government has already
run out of funds. It is further argued (without going into
details of the reasoning) that the Japanese probably feel
that

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
that they must strike at Soviet Russia soon -- that next
year will be too late.
Let us examine these views. It is true that in the
former session of the Diet Tojo was granted inoreased and
unusual authority. But we have no precise information as
to the provisions of the legislation granting those powers,
and it is possible that they did not include certain measures
whioh Tojo felt were politically inopportune to press at
that time. The same thing can be said in regard to the
budget. Moreover, it will be recalled that trere was
apparently considerable adverse criticism during the session
of certain measures and it would therefore have been sound
political practice for Tojo to await presenting some of the
more drastic steps until a more propitious time.
In this connection it will be noted that the death
of Admiral Yamamoto, the fate of the heroes of Attu Island,
and the celebration of Navy Day on May 27 were recently used
to their full propaganda value by the Japanese Government
as evidences of the necessity for further sacrifices on the
part of the people. The campaign placed emphasis on the
need for a further "tightening of the belt" and apparently
no attempt was made to whip the people up against the
Russians. It can also be pointed out that Japanese broad-
oasts make no effort to utilize the possible propaganda
value of the dissolution of the Comintern.
With regard to the argument by analogy that war
between Japan and the Soviet Union is imminent because
Tojo convened the Diet in a special session less than a
month before Pearl Harbor, it is pointed out that there
are considerable differenoes between the two cases. In
November 1941 the Japanese people knew that relations with
the United States were deteriorating; they knew that the
informal conversations between the two Governments had
practically failed. In fact, the atmosphere had been full
of the premonitions of war for many months, and it may very
well be that the Premier convened the Diet for the purpose
of uniting the people in a war against the United Nations.
At the present time, however, the Japanese Government
has led the nation to believe that its relations with the
douet
Soviet Union are for the time being on a satisfactory
basis. A modus vivendi on the fisheries question has been,
reached, and there have been no announcements of border
aa3
incidents or other questions which would bring the two
countries to the brink of war. If Tojo has convened the
Diet for the purpose of building a war feeling against the
Soviet, it would seem likely that during the past month or
so

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.95)
-3-
so there would have been some effort to demonstrate that
relations with that country were deteriorating. Such has
not been the case.
A Soviet-Japanese war has for many years been a possi-
bility, and some authorities are of the opinion that it is
an inevitability sooner or later. That may well be. In
view of the development of the war in Europe it is not
unlikely that Japan is giving serious thought to the advis-
ability of such an attack, but there has been no hint that
a decision to that effect has been reached. If in his
speech before the Diet Tojo should mention relations with
the Soviet Union in a pessimistic tone, or if border inci-
dents or other troublesome questions should begin to be
publicized, then we may feel that perhaps hostilities are
imminent. Events can move with great rapidity, and the
interval between the beginning and the end can be extremely
short, but it is not felt that Tojo will lead his country
into a major war w thout some sort of peychological prepara-
tion.
JmB
3
FE:Benninghofr:MLs

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.97)
DCR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MR HUDNBECK
June 9, 1943.
ADVISER
RECEIVE
JUN 11 1943
JUN 1 4 1943
ant
THE 81St BESSION OF THE JAPANESE DIET
DECAMBEB1942-MARCH 1943.
Foreword. This account of the 8lst session of the
Japanese Diet was prepared solely from Japanese broadcasts
monitored by the Foreign Broadcast Intelligence Service
of the Federal Communications Commission. In consequence,
the information contained herein is fragmentary and at
times of doubtful accuracy. It is also possible that the
accounts of the Diet sessions as broadcast by Tokyo were
colored to such an extent by official Japanese propaganda
that the impressions obtained therefrom of the discussions
in the Diet are erroneous. Although most of the statements
p
made in the Diet were either in the form of interpella-
C
tions by members or replies thereto by the Fremier and mem-
6
bers of his Cabinet, it is not always easy to determine
4.0
from the broadcasts which particular bill as under discus-
sion at a given time as many of the questions and replies
were apparently carefully engineered by the Government.
894,032
2
There is enclosed a list of the 89 bills presented to
and passed by the Diet. In compiling this list the For-
eign Broadcast Intelligence Service states: "This should
not necessarily be accepted as a complete and accurate list.
Ambiguity of reference makes it possible that the same
bill has been included under two or more titles". It
should be noted in this connection that the broadcasts
seldom contained specific information concerning bills
under discussion.
S
General. The members of the session of the Diet
/UT
under reference were elected in May 1942 by the newly es-
tablished "recommendation process". This meant that the
S
great majority of members had been chosen by the Imperial
Rule Assistance Association and were elected with the
P
approval of the Government. This gave the Diet a rubber
S
stamp" character, and in consequence the session under dis-
cussion gave little trouble to the Government. The revision
M
of only one bill was permitted.. The session originally
S
convened on Denember 24, 1942, and after three days it
recessed until January 21, 1943, in accordance with prac-
JN141943
FILED
tice. Just prior to January 21, however, it was announced
that the reconvening of the session would be postponed
until

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
until January 28 because of the 1llness of Premier Tojo.
There was no evidence to indicate that this illness was
not genuine.* The Diet reconvened on January 28 and the
closing ceremony was held on March 25.
According to the Foreign Broadcast Intelligence Ser-
vice, most of the bills were passed with apparently little
debate. It makes the following comments on this subject:
"Measured solely in terms of the number of interpellations
and the amount of discussion, most resistance on the part
of the legislators was directed against three bills, the
wartime special administration ordinance law, the special
wartime criminal law and the city, town and village admini-
stration law."
Budget. The most important routine work of the Diet
was the passage of the budget bills. A discussion of the
budget was prepared by Mr. Frank S. Williams, former Com-
mercial Attache of the Embassy at Tokyo, and it need not
be discussed in detail here.## The grand total amounted
to Yen 39,340,000,000, of wh1ch Yen 27,000,000,000 was for
wartime expenditures. In the course of the discussions
on the budget, Finance Minister Kaya made the interesting
announcement that of the estimated national income for
1943 of Yen 50,000,000,000, the Government proposed to use
Yen 37,000,000,000 for national expenditures, 1eaving only
Yen 13,000,000,000 or 26% for 11ving expenses of the people.
The Special Wartime Powers of the Premier. There was
apparently considerable criticism from the members of the
Diet and perhaps also from the nation at large in regard
to the three ordinances granting special powers to the
Premier. The details of the ordinances were not broadcast
to the world until after the Diet had adjourned. The Premier
is given authority over the other members of the Cabinet
and can appoint or dismiss officials almost at will for the
control of certain industries which are deemed the most
important for the carrying on of the war. During the early
days of the session the Premier used unusually boastful
language in informing the Diet of the manner in which he had
in the past led the country and proposed to continue in the
future. There was apparently sharp criticism of what some
may have called his "dictatorial policy", for a few days
Subsequently there were unconfirmed rumors to the ef-
fect that the postponement from January 21 to January 28
was caused by an attempt on the life of Premier Tojo.
 Copy 1n FE; file no. 894.51.

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
later he was forced to seek cover behind the person of the
Emperor by stating: "I have been given special accommoda-
tions as Premier and am able to utilize this only with the
glorious light of the Emperor...I am utilizing this spe-
cial accommodation only because it is in accordance with
the Emperor's divine treatment and will." During the whole
of the discussions Tojo maintained that it was necessary
to increase his powers in order to carry out the augmented
program of production necessary for the prosecution of the
war, and he stated flatly that he had no intentions of be-
coming a dictator.
From the standpoint of the structure of the Japanese
Government, these ordinances were the most important mea-
sures passed by the 8lst Session of the Diet. The Prime
Minister was for the first time placed by law in a posi-
tion ahead of his colleagues in the Cabinet; and when it is
considered that the present incumbent is concurrently the
Minister of War and a full general on the active list, the
change is little short of revolutionary. Although the
Premier steadfastly asserted that his increased powers were
necessary for the stepping-up of production and for no
other purpose, the political implications are obvious.
Not only has the Army finally placed its representative in
a position of unchallenged superiority, but for the first
time (at least in recent years) a Japanese leader has reached
a position where he can safely abandon the usual phrases
of self-effacement and speak out boldly in the first person
in regard to what he proposes to accomplish.
Special Wartime Criminal Law. This bill was the sub-
ject of even greater discussion in the Diet than the one
mentioned above. It was first introduced on February 17
and did not finally pass the Lower House until March 8.
The Japanese radio, as usual, was reticent about the contents
of the bill, but according to a monitored statement of the
Justice Minister its main objective was to institute a
stricter check on the press. The Minister, however, added
reassuringly that "this law was created with absolutely no
intention to suppress the freedom of speech and press".
Nevertheless, interpellations in the Diet clearly indicated
that there was great apprehension in Japan because of the
severe penalties imposed by the law. Apparently the appro-
priate sub-committee of the Lower House endeavored to put
through a revision, but in this they were disappointed
following a special meeting of the Cabinet which decided
not to recognize any revision of the bill.
C1ty，

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
City, Town and Village Administration Law. As nearly
as can be determined the purpose of this bill was to "per-
fect the method of selection of city, town and village
chiefs" and also to bring about a closer harmony between
the activities of rural areas and broad government poli-
cies. Most of the discussion apparently centered around
the revision of the means of selecting local officials,
and apparently the members of the Diet felt that the new
law would increase the control of the Central Government
over local authorities.
Other Legislation. Aside from the legislation dis-
cussed above, little is known of the details of the various
bills which became law during the session. As far as can
be determined, nothing transpired which was unusual during
wartime in a totalitarian state. The main theme of most
of the bills seemed to be increased centralization of
authority in the hands of the Government. For example, the
Minister of Commerce and Industry, speaking on February 18
in regard to the industrial control associations which had
been created previously, stated that "It is necessary to
have a comprehensively unified control throughout the entire
control set-up". For this purpose it was decided to estab-
lish the Commerce and Industry Economic Association. Simi-
larly, in regard to the control of agriculture, the Minister
of Agriculture and Forestry declared on January 30 that
"The Government has this time decided to consolidate and
regulate agricultural societies, ... for rushing forward
toward an increase of fighting strength."
Other important subjects which came up for discussion
were food, national health, education, propaganda, and
international relations. In regard to the latter, the
most important developments were Tojo's pledge of inde-
pendence to Burma and perhaps to the Philippines, reports
on the growing strength of the Nanking regime and of Japan's
cooperation therewith, and concern over the fate of Japa-
nese interned in foreign countries.
Note: A competent discussion of the 8lst session of
the Japanese Diet can be found in numbers 14-17 of the
"Radio Report on the Far East" prepared by the Foreign
Broadcast Intelligence Service of the Federal Communica-
tions Commission, copies of which are on file in FE.
110
FE:Benninghoff:MJK

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.99)
LIST OF BILLS PRESENTED TO AND PASSED BY THE 8IST SESSION
OF THE JAPANESE DIET
(CAUTION:
There 1s no certainty that this list is abso-
lutely correct, although it is probably more
than 90% correot.)
People's Savings Union Ordinanoe Revision
"Manohukuo" Courts Revision Bill regarding status of Japanese
in "Manchukuo"
Economio Control Association Bill
Imperial Industrial Development Law
Pharmacist Bill
Pension Regulation Revision Bill
Municipality System Revision Bill
Bill concerning issuance of loans in regard to reparation
of railways
Bill concerning revision of supplementary remuneration of
publio school teachers
Agricultural Organizations Ordinance Bill
National Savings Associations Bill
Labor Law Revision
Imperial Gold and Silver Company Laws
Commerce and Industry Economy Bill
Soldiers Welfare Revision Bill
Postal Annuity Revision Bill
Air Defense System Revision Bill
Japan Insurance Law
Tokyo Municipality Administration Bill
War-time Administration Special Ordinance Bill
Regional Railways Purchase Bill
Agrioultural Insurance Revision Bill
Army War Material Improvement Bill
Navy War Material Improvement Bill
Bill concerning welfare of Japanese overseas
Speoial Remuneration in War Industry
Bill concerning distribution of prisoners
Air Service Revision Bill
Motorcar Traffic Revision Bill
Japan Commercial Rights Revision Bill
Town and Village Administration Revision Bill
Munioipal Administration Revision Bill
Municipal Prefeoture and Prefecture Revision Bill
Maritime Organization Ordinance
Agricultural Associations Law
Military Consoription Law
Revision of Censorship Law
Commerce Law Revision
Resis1on of 38th Law Adopted in 1905
Revision of Army Military Court Law
Revision of Navy Military Court Law

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
Revision of Marketing Control and Distribution Laws
Revision of 9th Law Adopted in 1929
Revision of law concerning increase of production of
nitrio acid and ammonia (also revision of law con-
cerning distribution and control of these chemioals)
Petrolgum Monopoly Bill
Trade Corporation Law
Special Aots for Fuel Law
Revision of Distribution of Fertilizers Control Law
Fuel Mobilization Law
Tax Collecting Facilities
Emergenoy Capital Adjustment Law
Bill concerning rights and privileges of savings bank
business and trust business in ordinary banks and
othere
Bill for the Simplification of Bank Operation
Bill for Insurance of War Deaths and Losses
Revision of Salt Monopoly Purchase Law
Law revising Commerce and Industry Central Bank
Transportation Industry Law
Vital Mineral Production Inorease Law
Motor Vehiole Transportation Law
Special Military Expenditure Supplementary Budget Bill
North China Development Company Law
Revision of Special Interest Tax Law
Commerce and Industry and Economic Assoclation Bill
Commerce and Industry Cooperative Assooiation Bill
The War-time Criminal Matters Special Law
Bill concerning construotion of transportation facilities
in Northern Japan
Trade Control Corporation Bill
Charcoal Self-sufficienoy Bill
Bill for revision of the Special Accounts Law
The Marine Products Industry Assooiation Law
Revision of the Special Fund Adjustment Law
Law concerning pensions for public sohogl teachers
Law concerning revision of Educational System
Inoreased Taxation Bill
Aviation Law Revision Bill
Wooden Ship Insurance Bill
The Japanese Negotiable Securities Exchange Bill
The Suburban Credit Association Bill
The Bill for Management of Great Fires
The Exohange and Trade Pact Bill
The Bill for Special Aocounting of Funds of Speoial Assets
A draft for the revision of the Central China Development
Bank Corporation Laws
A draft bill concerning the acts of offioials without
military authority in the ocoupied areas

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
A draft concerning administrative affairs for the collection
of Japan-"Manchukuo" rural taxes
Youth and Boys' organization bill
A bill relative to conscription in Manchuria
A bill relative to the revision of the Judicial System
A revis1on of Number 69 of the laws of 1940
A revision of the laws concerning compulsory education
expenditures covered by the National Treasury

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.94)
894.00
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Simificane of extraorlinary session of Jnoanese Diet et
Fokyo, e 16-18.
Ene oses memon un or o ny reat on ir rertrd to -.
894.032/222
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See Des.1365
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
From
Dated.July. 20.1943
China(Chungking)
Xx
(Atcheson)
File No.894.00/1186.
PS/MAS

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.94)
894.032
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
"on the results of the Eighty-third
Extraordinary Session of the Japanese
Parliament":
Reports on artiole by A. Ilin entitlod -
published in the Nov.l5 issue of THE WAR
AND THE WCRKING CLASS.
894.032/
223
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
To1.#2034 1pm
(Despatch, telegrom, instruction, letter, etc.)
From U.S.S.R.(Mosoow)
DatedNov.24.1943
xTx
(Harriman)
File No. 894.00/1192
DSIHUL
1-1840
mo

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.94)
894.032/8-1644
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT News comment according to Domei, a resolution was
adopted at session of Japanese Cabinet to call Eighty-fifth
Extraordinary Session of Parliament.
894.032/8-1644
For the original paper from which reference is taken
SeeTe1/3016.6PM
(Despatch, talegram, instruction, letter, etc.)
From
Dated...August..16...1944
USSR(Mascou).
18
File No. .861.9111RR/8-1644
B. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1—1540

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.95)
894.032/8-1644
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT News comment according to Domei, a resolution was
adopted at session of Japanese Cabinet to call Eighty-fifth
Extraordinary Session of Parliament.
894.032/8-1644
For the original paper from which reference is taken
SeeTe1/3016.6PM
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)
From
Dated....August..16...1944
USSR(Maacow).
16
File No. ..861.9111RR/8-1644
B. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OPFICE 1-1540
