894.516 Financial Conditions. Budget. Dept. Bond Issues. Loans. Public Securities. Credits., Japan, Banks. Banking., November 29, 1937 (File 982)
ID: 894.516-982   Pages: 3   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.516-financial-conditions-budget-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.98)
DCR

COPY FOR COMMERCIAL OFFICE OF
THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECEIVED
JAN 19 1938
DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS

American Consulate General,
Shanghai, China, November 29, 1937.

STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL

The Honorable Paul V. McNutt,
The United States High Commissioner
to the Philippine Islands,
Manila, P. I.

Sir:

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of a letter dated November 11, 1937, from your office, signed by Mr. Wayne Coy, Administrative Assistant, with which were transmitted a letter dated November 3, 1937, from the Secretary to the President of the Philippines and a strictly confidential letter dated October 29, 1937, from Mr. Pedro de Jesus, Bank Commissioner, Bureau of Banking of the Department of Finance of the Commonwealth of the Philippines, requesting an expression of opinion with respect to the general responsibility, reputation and manner of doing business of the Bank of Taiwan in Shanghai.

The Bank Commissioner desired this information, because the Bank of Taiwan submitted an application to the Honorable Secretary of Finance of the Commonwealth of the Philippines to open and operate a branch in the City of Manila, Philippines, in order to engage in general banking business. From the wording of the Bank Commissioner's letter it can be seen that he is familiar with the general organization of the bank but as of possible interest there is attached one of the bank's advertisements issued a number of months ago.

A number of enquiries have been made confidentially in Shanghai foreign banking circles and the general opinion seems to be that the Bank of Taiwan is a responsible banking institution enjoying a good reputation.

Foreign

1

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

Foreign banks which have regularly done business in foreign exchange with the Bank of Taiwan report that their relations with the bank have been satisfactory. They also say that they have heard no complaints against the bank's manner of doing business in recent years.

The bank is spoken of as "a semi-Government bank" and as the "semi-official central organ of banking facilities for Taiwan." This backing by the Government of Japan adds greatly to the good repute of the bank. It is the opinion of some bankers that such Government backing is very useful to the bank and that the bank might suffer if such Government support were withdrawn.

Criticisms of the bank relate to the past and not the present. In 1927 the Bank of Taiwan experienced difficulties and in places like Shanghai and Hong Kong depositors of Japanese nationality are said by one informant to have been prevented or at least discouraged from withdrawing deposits from the bank. Other informants are disinclined to lay any great stress on difficulties of the bank a decade ago and attribute the bank's troubles at that time to the after effects of the great earthquake in Japan in 1923, saying that a great disaster of this kind would naturally sooner or later be felt in financial circles in outlying places and require the taking of extraordinary steps to prevent bank runs.

Respectfully yours,

C. E. Gauss,
American Consul General.

Enclosure:
1/- Copy of the Bank of Taiwan's advertisement.

In duplicate

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
THE BANK OF TAIWAN, LIMITED

(Incorporated in Japan by Special Imperial Charter, 1899)

Capital Subscribed: ¥ 15,000,000
President: Jiro Yasuda, Esq.
Vice-President: Tsutomu Yoshida, Esq.

Directors: Masajiro Araki, Esq., Seizo Kondoh, Esq., Kenji Yamamoto, Esq.
Auditors: Vis. Sukekuni Soga, Yoshimi Yanagi, Esq., Eiichiro Katoh, Esq.

Head Office: Taihoku, Taiwan

Branches and Agencies:

Japan: Tokyo (Central Office), Kobe, Osaka, Yokohama.
Taiwan: Giran, Heito, Kagi, Karenko, Keelung, Makong, Nanto, Shinchiku, Shokwa, Taichu, Tainan, Taito, Takao, Tansui, Toen.
China: Amoy, Canton, Dairen, Foochow, Hankow, Shanghai, Swatow.
Java: Batavia, Semarang, Soerabaja.
Others: London, New York, Bombay, Hong Kong, Singapore.

Correspondents: In the principal cities and towns throughout the world.

London Bankers:
Barclays Bank, Ltd.; Lloyds Bank, Ltd.; Midland Bank, Ltd.; Westminster Bank, Ltd.

New York Bankers:
Bankers Trust Co.; Bank of Manhattan Co.; Chase National Bank; Guaranty Trust Co.; Irving Trust Co.; New York Trust Co.; National City Bank; First National Bank of Boston.
