894.33 Movements Of Naval Vessels. Rules, Ect., Regarding Visits Of Foreign Naval Vessels, 800.33**., July 14, 1933 - September 24, 1938 (File 1046)
ID: 894.33-1046   Pages: 13   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.33-movements-of-naval-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.99)
Department of State
DUPLICATE
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Taihoku, Taiwan, Japan, July 14, 1933.

Subject: Visit of Royal Princes and Imperial Japanese Fleet to Taiwan.

The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
American Ambassador,
Tokyo, Japan.

Sir:

I have the honor to inform the Ambassador that Taiwan has recently been visited by three royal princes of the blood, Prince Kuni, a brother of the Empress, Prince Takamatsu, the third brother of the Emperor, and Prince Fushimi, a grandson of a brother of the Emperor Meiji.

All of the princes are officers in the Japanese Navy, Prince Kuni, being a lieutenant commander and assistant chief of gun department on the battleship "Haruna", Prince Takamatsu is a first lieutenant and is in charge of high angle (anti-aircraft?) guns on the battleship "Takao", and Prince Fushimi is in command of the destroyer "Amakiri".

The fleet, known as the allied fleet, composed of the first and second squadrons, comprising respectively 36 ships and 28 ships, split up on arriving in Taiwan waters, the first squadron arriving at Keelung, on July 4th, and the second squadron at Mako, Pescadores on July 5th.

The allied fleet is in command of Admiral Kobayashi, on the flagship "Mutsu".

The ships comprising the first squadron are: first division, flagship "Mutsu, battleships "Kongo", "Haruna", "Hyuga",

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

Hyuga"; third division, battleships, "Abukuma", "Natori", "Yura"; first torpedo division, "Yubari"; twenty second destroyer flotilla, "Minatsuki", "Nagatsuki", "Bungetsu", "Kisaragi"; thirtieth destroyer flotilla, "Ugetsu", "Satsuki", "Mutsuki". "Yayoi"; twenty third destroyer flotilla, "Yutsuki", "Mochitsuki", "Mikatsuki", "Kikutsuki"; submarines, tender "Jingei", twenty eighth submarine flotilla; "Y1 63", "Y1 59", Y1 60"; thirtieth submarine flotilla; "Y1 67", "Y1 66", "Y1 65"; first aviation squadron, seaplane tenders "Kaga", "Hosho"; second destroyer flotilla, "Okikaze", "Sawakaze", "Minekaze" "Yokaze"; special service squadron, "Mamiya", "Tsumuri".

The larger battleships, and aircraft tenders anchored outside of Keelung harbor, but the destroyers and smaller ships were berthed inside the breakwater.

Prince Kuni arrived at Taihoku on July 4th, and was received by the officials and populace of the city with elaborate ceremony. He stayed at Sozan, a mountain hot springs resort, about 6 miles from Taihoku, and visited Kappanzan another hill resort, which is the center of rich tea estates owned by the Mitsui Gomei Kaisha. On July 8th, the first squadron departed from Keelung arriving at Mako, Pescadores on July 9th.

The second squadron arrived at Mako on July 5th, remaining for four days. This squadron is in command of Admiral Suyetsugu on the flagship "Chokai". Ships comprising the second squadron are: fourth fighting unit, battleships "Chokai", "Maya", "Takao", and three others; sixth fighting unit, "Kinukasa", "Kako", "Aoba"; second torpedo flotilla, "Jintsu"; seventh destroyer flotilla, "Akebono",

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-

"Akebono", "Ryo", "Ushio"; eighth destroyer flotilla, "Amakiri", "Asakiri", "Yugiri"; eleventh destroyer flotilla, "Shirayuki", "Hatsuyuki", "Miyuki"; twelfth destroyer flotilla, "Murakumo", "Shinonome", "Shirayuki"; second submarine flotilla, "Kumo"; eighteenth submarine flotilla, "Yi 56", Yi 57", "Yi 58"; special service squadron, "Notoro", "Naruto".

On July ninth the second squadron put in at Takao, the chief seaport of southern Taiwan, but owing to the inadequacy of the harbor practically all the ships had to remain outside.

Prince Takamatsu visited Garambi the extreme southern point of land of Taiwan, and Prince Fushimi visited Tainan, an important city in the south, and Kagi, another southern city.

Extreme precautions were taken by the Taiwan police for the protection of the three princes during their stay in Taiwan from July 4th to July 13th. On March 14, 1928 an attempt was made to assassinate, the father of Prince Kuni at Taichu, a city which has been long considered the headquarters of Formosan agitators. All known agitators and suspicious persons were arrested and detained during the royal visits, and so far as has been reported, no untoward incident of any kind occurred.

The second squadron sailed from Takao on July 13th, and the first squadron departed from Mako on the same day. The two units of the allied fleet will then hold joint maneuvers, probably in the vicinity of the Japanese mandated islands.

Admiral

=== Page 4 === (confidence 1.00)
-4-

Admiral Kobayashi was quoted in part as follows:

"--- The reason that my allied fleet has this time visited Taiwan is that visit to Taiwan is very convenient to future work of my fleet and that I considered that it is valuable to give the men of the fleet an opportunity to see Taiwan which is the southern outpost of the national defense. I am pleased that welcome is extended by government and people of Taiwan to us who have not been invited to this island. The government and people of Taiwan probably depend on us in case of emergency for repetition of the same meritorious services as rendered by our predecessors.

*--- I cannot say about results of drilling of my men, but they are more tense than normal years. They realize the important situation which now faces Japan. In case of emergency they will absolutely live up to expectation of the nation. After sailing from Keelung the First squadron will visit Mako, and sail from that port on the same day as the Second Squadron from Takao. For two months from now we will carry out strenuous drill in seas of southern tropics, and at the end of the drill we will join in the greatest naval maneuvers ever held by our navy. We will be back in Tokyo end of August."

Admiral Suyetsugu, in command of the second squadron, was quoted in an interview given the press at Takao as follows:

"This is my third visit to Taiwan. As our Navy does not visit Taiwan every year some of the officers will find Taiwan interesting. Taiwan is geographically in the first line of the national defense, and is closely related to our Navy. We therefore have a great deal of concern over Taiwan. Our men will learn much from this visit. The port of Takao and that of Mako combined make one unit as a naval port, and they are in the first line of the defense. The recent development of aviation has made Taiwan and South China closer, and as viewed from military standpoint, the relations between Japan and the United States have recently become strained a great deal of care must be exercised. The Second Squadron is the vanguard of our Navy, and therefore consists of most up-to-date and strong warships. Our squadron is engaged in drills day and night to prepare for emergency, but health condition and morale of men are excellent. I am sure that they will be able to function efficiently in case of emergency. We continue drills on sea for over ten days sometimes, and when we enter a port what we appreciate most is sincere welcome accorded through understanding of and confidence in our Navy. We appreciate this welcome at

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.97)
-5-

at Takao in that sense. I wish Takao had a larger harbor. Now large ships cannot enter, and as we may be in trouble in case of storms we anchored in the sea off the harbor. We understand that this port will be completed in the near future. If vessels of 10,000 tons can then enter the port, it will be greatly appreciated by the Navy."

Respectfully yours,

John B. Ketcham,
American Consul.

Copy for Department of State.
Copy for Consulate General.
Copy for Naval Attache, Tokyo.
Original to American Embassy, Tokyo
Forwarded August 15, 1933
By FE/xx

OKA

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.95)
BFS
COPY
SECRET
DCR
CODE CABLEGRAM
Received at the War Department
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECEIVED
JUL 13 1934
DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
July 9, 1934.
9:45 A.M.
From Manila.
To The Adjutant General.
Manila Number 6263. July 9th.
In regard to maneuvers of Japanese Navy the following information received from a reliable source. Fleet will concentrate southern Formosa base on Boko Pescadores Islands, leaving Yokosuka and Kure August 10th. Culmination of maneuvers September 15th to September 22d. Army of Formosa concentrates at southern Formosa. Japanese Army aviation also concentrates. Defense against fleets of two nations, one approach across Pacific other through Malay Straits, is scheme of maneuvers.
Parker.
FILED
894.33/11
F/ESE
SECRET
894.33/11
F/ESF

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.97)
DIVISION OF
EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
AUG 1 1937
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

NO. 226

6 THE FOREIGN SERVICE
RECEIVED
OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

1937 AUG 3 PM 1 33

AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
SINGAPORE, S.S., June 28, 1937.

SUBJECT: Arrival and Departure of Naval Vessels.

894.33

THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.

SIR:

I have the honor, with reference to the Department's instruction of April 24, 1937, and despatch No. 208 of June 7, 1937, from this office, to report that the Japanese naval training ships IWATE and YAKUMO arrived at Singapore on the afternoon of Sunday, June 27, 1937, carrying some 200 cadets and about 1,100 officers and ratings. These vessels will depart from Singapore on or about Wednesday, June 30, 1937, continuing their cruise to the Mediterranean. The IWATE is in command of Captain Tadashige Daigo and is the flagship of Vice-Admiral Mineichi Koga. The YAKUMO is commanded by Captain Matome Ugaki. An official reception is being given aboard the flagship on June 29, to which the officers of this Consulate General have been invited.

Respectfully yours,

[Signature]

Monnett B. Davis,
American Consul General.

Distribution

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-

Distribution:
Original and one copy to the Department
One copy to the American Embassy, London

File No. 830
MBD.pt

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.95)
For the Department of State
in strict confidence
DTR
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
KOBE, JAPAN
April 19, 1935.

Strictly Confidential

The Honorable
Joseph C. Drew,
American Ambassador,
Tokyo.

Sir:

Confirming and amplifying my telephone conversation (in French) of yesterday with Mr. Church, I have the honor to submit as of possible interest to the Naval Attaché the following information.

My wife and I have recently completed a short trip to French Indo-China and Siam. On the return trip our steamer, the BANGKOK MARU, stopped at Keelung on April 13th for the purpose of taking on a cargo of rice. The steamer had planned to leave the next day about 6:00 p.m. Unexpectedly, however, without in fact being able to warn all the passengers, the steamer left the next morning about 11:00 a.m. It developed that the reason for this sudden departure was the fact that naval maneuvers of some sort were being held at Keelung and only by leaving that morning could the steamer escape remaining in port for several days as the harbor was to be closed during the time the naval units were visiting.

As

FILED
AP 11 1935
894.33/13
F/WB

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

As our vessel left the entrance to the port we passed nine submarines entering. The submarines I saw may be identified by the fact that they bore the number "20" on the bow and the series "59", "60", "61", et cetera on the turret. Four or five miles outside the entrance we encountered three battleships. I was informed that these were among the largest of their capital ships ranging around 30,000 tons. I did not wish to ask questions on these matters but the names as I heard them referred to in the Japanese conversation carried on around me appeared to be the Ise, the Yuga, and the Yamashiro.

A few miles further on were an additional 16 naval vessels comprising, as far as I could make out, battleships, cruisers, and submarines.

The Captain of the BANGKOK MARU, who is also a Naval Reserve Officer, informed me that there would be 41 or 42 ships in the Keelung harbor for these maneuvers and that the harbor was to be closed for several days. I did not ask him directly the purpose of this movement and indirect soundings did not elicit any statement on this point. There appeared to be no special movement of troops from Keelung at the time we were there or other signs of military activity.

The above information may, of course, be fully known to Captain Bemis, but as it apparently is not a matter of public reference in the press I am taking the liberty

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.92)
-3-

liberty of transmitting it for what it may be worth.

Respectfully yours,

Interro H. Scott
American Consul

800
MRS/hjs
Original to Ambassador.
Three copies to Department of State.
One copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.

A true copy of the signed original. 1628

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
Original by Air Mail
(Copies by Regular Mail)

AMERICAN CONSULATE
Saigon, French Indochina, September 24, 1938.

Confidential

SUBJECT: Activities of Japanese Naval Units near French Indochina

THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.

SIR:

I have the honor to inform the Department that there seems to be considerable preoccupation in northern French Indochina over the presence of Japanese naval units in waters closely adjacent to the colony. It is rumored that a Japanese aircraft-carrier is lying off the port of Haiphong (terminus of the railroad to Yunnanfu, China), just outside of French Indochina territorial waters. Portable anti-aircraft guns have been set up in the port area of Haiphong. (Similar measures have been taken at the oil storage tanks and other points at Saigon and along the coast. The guns at Saigon are limited in number and of very small caliber. The number of military planes in French Indochina will supposedly be materially increased in the near future; recruiting of additional native ground personnel was started this week).

The occupation of the island of Waichow, 25 miles south

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

south of Pakhoi, China, only 65 miles from the coast of French Indochina, is another disquietening feature for the French, who evidently heretofore held the belief that the Sino-Japanese struggle would never come nearer to them than, perhaps, Canton. That operations of the French-owned Haiphong-Yunnanfu railway could be brought to a halt for a period of many months at any time the Japanese chose to do so has of course been recognized. (In climbing through the mountains the rail line crosses many large gorges the high bridges over any one of which could readily be destroyed by planes operating from points such as Waichow Island or Haiphong, well within a 500 mile radius.)

Respectfully yours,

John Peabody Palmer
American Vice Consul

In quintuplicate
800
JPP/CJ
