894.05 Mixed International Courts. Divided As 8**.01., October 19, 1948 (File 1668)
ID: 894.05-1668   Pages: 1   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.05-mixed-international-courts
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation

DATE: October 19, 1948

SUBJECT: POSSIBLE REFERENCE OF QUESTIONS OF LAW INVOLVED IN TOKYO TRIALS TO THE INTERNATIONAL COURT OF JUSTICE

PARTICIPANTS: Commander Coleman, U.S.N. and Miss Whiteman

COPIES TO:

Mr. George Gray of this Office introduced Commander Coleman, U.S.N. stating that the Commander had some questions he wanted to raise with respect to the International Court of Justice. The Commander is, or was, as I understood him to say, Chief of Defense Counsel in the Tokyo Trials for War Criminals. He stated that he desired to know whether there was any way that the legal principles involved in those trials might be presented to the ICJ; he intimated that before General MacArthur reviewed certain cases he ought to know whether the law under which the trials had taken place was valid international law. He asked whether General MacArthur could get this before the ICJ.

I told him that only states could bring cases before the Court, and then disputed cases only. I also told him about the procedure for requesting advisory opinions of the Court, i.e., through the Security Council, the General Assembly, or other authorized organ or agency. He seemed to think that eleven states or less might request the GA to ask for an advisory opinion in the matter.

I pointed out that the Tokyo trials were not part of the UN machinery, that the GA might not feel warranted in taking up that problem, especially in the face of its previous Resolution regarding Nuremberg. The Commander's attitude was that the result mattered little, that what was important was that the Japanese people should feel that justice had been done.

I stated that I could not presume to speak for the Department in the matter and he hastened to add that though in uniform he was not necessarily speaking for the Department of the Navy.

L:L/I:MWhiteman:lml

FILED
1949
CS/H
894.05/10-1948
