894.24 Japan, Equipment And Supplies., July 15, 1941 - October 28, 1944 (File 1460), part 1 of 2
ID: 894.24-1460-1   Pages: 481   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.24-japan-equipment-and-17/894.24%20Japan%2C%20Equipment%20And%20Supplies.%2C%20July%2015%2C%201941%20-%20October%2028%2C%201944%201460-part-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.86)
FE
inod
THE NAVARRO.
JUL 12 1941
112 CENTRAL K BOUTH
FAR LASMRNL AFFAIRS
41
MR. WELLES
Department of State
h Yan rer mgh
894.24
40000 brloofiil lcang
4
niote hrst
I have tee,ot
5
9
S
E
P
P
S
3
11
telith ate ttetrital

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.94)
July 17. 1941
My dear Nr. Fonnell:
I have received your leitor of July 10, l941 with
regard to the shipment  oil from the United States to
Japan and I appreciate the s irii w ich prompted you to
894.2
bring your view to my attention.
The Export Control Act, ap. roved July 2, 1940,
autharizes the President t prohibit or curtail by
4/
proolamation the exportation of certain mate als from
5
the United States in the interest of the national defense.
9
The President, acting under tho authority contained in
一
this Aot, has designated by proolamations the articles and
894.24
materials the exportation of whioh may be prohibitod or
ourtailed in the intorest of the national defense. The
decision as t what articles or matorials shall be ree-
omaonded for inolusion in the list, on the ground of their
S
SYNW
importance
a
6
Mr. Gerald M. Fennell,
The Navarro,
118 Contral Park South,
New York, New York.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.97)
-8
importenoe to the netional defense, rests with the
Administrator of Expert Control, who acts wi th the advice of
experts from all the interested Government departments.
Under the authority conteined in the above-mentioned
Aot of July 2, 1940, the oxportation of certain potroloum
products, notably high octane motor fuel for aviation
purposes and aviation lubricatin oil, was prohibited
on July 26, 1940 except to the Wostern Hemisphere and
the Britiah Empire and then cnly when authorized by license.
Since that date the requirement of a license has been
extended so as to include other petroloum products. All
restriotions imposed on exports under the auti rity cranted
to the Fresident by virtue of tie Act, apply, of course,
to shipments to Japan.
I may add that the policy and aftion of the United
States in relations with China and J&pan, as in cther fiolds
of foroign relations, are determined, not by the Depart-
ment of State alone, but by the Government as a whole,
inoluding the President, the Cabinet, the Congress, and
other agenoios.
You will reallze, I am sure, that the course which
has been md is being pursued involves consideration of
a great any faotors in a very complicated world situation.
You

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.90)
Lou may be assured shat she Department 1e endeavering
to give eenstant and earmest attentien te all phases
of the intermatiomal situation cnd to the many fecters
invelved in that situation, and to maintain a position
whieh is compatible with the interests and welfare ef
the American people as a whole and which cemferms to
metheds that are conalstent with this country's laws
and with the eurrent opiniom of the Ameriean people.
Sineerely youre,
Aoting Seeretary
CR
64
JU. 16 1041N
FE:TGC:NBW/FRE
FE
0o
7-16
cmm,id

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.97)
nited States Senate
COMMITTEE ON CLAIMS
OF
File
REOEIVED
AUG16 1941
L21 1941
.7-22-41
Dirisien cs
6F
Honorable Summer Welles
FOP EASTERN AFFAIRS
Acting Secretary
AUG 12 1941
Department of State
191
894.24/1562
Washington, D.C.
THE AMERICAN REPUBLICS
tment of State
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Dear Mr. Welles:
I received your letter of the eighth
replying to one I sent you from Mr. Dale O. Miller,
President of the Simplex Engineering Corporation,
Detroit, Michiganm with regard to shipments of gasoline
and aluminum to Japan. Your file is Co 894.24/1434.
I sent your letter to Mr. Miller who has replied and
I attaoh his communioation of the l4th. I feel that
you should have knowledge of his statements and if you
care to comment I would bo pleased to have you do so.
Ploase return Mr. Miller's letter to me.
Singerely yours,
PS/NW
SEP
FILED
3 1941

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
SIMPIEX ENGINEERING CORPORATION
7338 Woodward Avenue
DETROIT, MICHIGAN
July 14, 1941
Senator Prentiss M. Brown
United States Senate
Washington, D. C.
Dear Senator Brown:
Thanks very much for your letter of July 9th. We
appreciate your efforts. Also the enclosure from the
State Department, who evidently has the authority, all
right, to stop these shipments, but is not doing much
about it. We are quoting you below from "The Detroit
News":
"San Pedro, Calif., July 1Oth
-Japanese vessels are taking more than 400,000 barrels
of oil from Los Angeles Harbor this week. The auxiliary
naval tanker Kokuyo Maru was due to sail today with
70,000 barrels, and the naval tanker Iro was completing
her cargo of 54,000 barrels.
The former whaler Tonan Maru III and the Kyokuyo
Maru are to sail Friday with 140,000 barrels each."
This looks very bad to us, especially in view of the
fact that Mr. Ickes is talking about gasless Sunday's.
For your further information, when we came through
Chicago after making a trip out West to California the
last two or three weeks, last Sunday's "Chicago Tribune"
carried the story of a large shipment of expensive aluminum
toys just arriving at one of the large Department Stores
from England. It pointed out the fact that manufacturers
in this country are unable to get aluminum for the same
type of toy; yet we are shipping aluminum to England and
they in turn manufacturing it and shipping it back here to
compete with our market.
We also have from good authority that the English
have delivered airplanes for commercial and private use
to South America and are soliciting that type of business
at the present time.
What

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
What I am trying to do is find out who we are
fighting for and what it is all about. It is a "Merry-go-
round" all right, and running at pretty high speed, and I
am wondering how long I can still hold on.
We thank you for your efforts, and remain
Yours truly,
DALE O. MILLER

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.95)
TMENTOPSTATE
norendum of Conversation
DATE:
July 16, 1941
HIFNENTS OF CHILEAN COPPER TO JAPAN
Corporation, National Zino Company, Inc., 1l Broadway
New York, New York.
OFFICE OF G AIVISER ON
F120
INIERNUNAI OC AFFA
JUL 23 1941A
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894
894,24/1467
In the absence of Mr. Finletter, who had written to Mr. Elkan
requesting that he come to Washington to discuss a contract for
1563
the sale of blister copper to Japan, the latter came to my office
to go over the matter. The Embassy in Chile had informed the
Department in a despatoh dated June 23, 1941 (no. 1593) that
the International Minerals & Metals Corporation, which was under-
stood to have a contract with the Compagnie Miniere du M'Zaita
of Chile to take its entire production, had agreed to allow the
latter to sell 1600 tons of blister copper to Japan during the
romainder of this year.
which essentially is that of an agent, in the handling of copper
Th

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
The International Minerals & Metals Corporation acts in this
capacity for Phelps Dodge and, as indicated by the despatch
from Chile, it has a contract for the entire output of
M'Zaita. M'Zaita operates a refinery utilizing its own
ores, but in addition it buys a certain quantity of other
ores necessary for use as a flux from small miners. The
output of M'Zaita is about 8o0 tons of blister copper per
month.
M'Zaita found, according to Mr. Elkan, that the Japanese
 competing with it for the purchase of certain ores not
controlled by the company but necessary for the operation
of its smelter. Prices were being bid up to such levels
that M'Zaita found that it could no longer operate profit-
ably. Thereupon, it went to the International Minerals
& Metals Corporation with a proposal that it be released
to the extent of 16oo tons per year of blister copper to
be disposed of as it saw fit. In other words, M'Zaita
wished to sell this copper to Japan. The International
Minerals & Metals Corporation acquiesced in this arrange-
ment since by so doing they were able to assure themselves
of a substantial production which would not otherwise be
available if M'Zaita had to compete with the Japanese for
the purchase of the outside ores referred to above.
Under

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
Under the present arrangement, therefore,'M'Zaita
has eliminated competition with the Japanese for the
purchase of these ores by treating for the Japanese the
equivalent of 200 tons of metallic copper per month,
leaving 600 tons of its production for the International
Minerals & Metals Corporation. The latter, incidentally,
sells its copper solely in this country or in England.
If Mr. Elkan's story is correct, his company and
M'Zaita were forced into this arrangement in order to
obtein five-sixths of a loaf at the expense of the other
sixth. Mr. Elkan said that in order to prevent this
copper from going to Japen, leaving aside for the moment
any considerations relating to the contract, it would be
necessary for M'Zaita to pay $30 per ton more for the
ores in question.
EA:JT:MMM

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.96)
July 21, 1941.
CONFIDENTIAL
The Admimistrator of Export Control:
There 1s enclosed, in accordance with our oral under-
standing, a copy of a memorandum in regard to the exporta-
tion of petroleum produote to Japan, whioh I addressed to
Nr. Aoheson on July 19, 1941, togother with copies of the
8
dooumente referred to therein and coples of three statis
tical tabulatlons and of an additional memorandum addres
to Mr. Acheson on July 19, 1941. These are sent to you,
confidence, for your advanoe information. The memorand
addressed to you 1s under consideration in the Department
It will probably be approved and transmitted to you in t
regular manner in the very near future.
Joseph C. Oreen
Chief, Division or Controls.
Enclosuree:
Cody of s memorandum to Mr.
N
Acheson deted July 19, 1941,
together with copies of the
documents referred to theroin.
Coples of three statlstical
tabulatlons.
Memorandum to Mr. Acheson lated
J1y 19, 1941.
Co JCG RW

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.93)
Lee 894.24 /1561
lelte to GeraldM. Fennell
7-17-41

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.97)
RECEIVED
CEARTMENT OF STATE
JUL241941
ET. NEW YoRK
47
1941 JUL 29 PM 2
pivision of
July 22, 194
FAB EASTERN AEFAIRS
juy284941
IONS
My dear Mr. Welles:
AND RECORDS
Department of State
Very many thanks for your letter of July 17th - very greatly appreciated.
I have for a year past been striving to call Mr. Hull's attention to the
folly of continuing to supply gasoline to the Japs wherewith to murder
their neighbors.
I hand you herewith a repitition of the cable sent to our President from
George A. Fitch in Chungking where he is coordinator between the Chinese
Government and the industrial cooperatives to help in the reorganization
of China's industries.
894.24/1564
The United China Relief striving to procure 5 Million Dollars relief funds
for China would seem to be almost useless and money thrown away as long
s we are supplying Japan with the power - that they cannot optain else-
where and do not possess of their own - to continue to operate their
bombers over the civilian population of China.
I have carefully noted all that you wrote me but it does not get us
anywhere in connection with the steps that you refer to. On the other
hand I read in this morning's paper as follows "Japan Reaffirms Axis
Alliance Ties".
Furthermore Hitler has said to have asked Japan to help him under date
of July 18th and as for the new Jap Cabinet I hand you herewith the
pictures of two of the r most important ministers - Foreign and Finance.
7
I am a phrenologist and if there is any human nature benevolence or
0
nobleness indicated in these visages then I don't know my phrenology.
4.24
With great esteem,
Faithfully,
PS/NW
GMF:gh
Gerald M. Fennell
291941
Honorable Sumner Welles
Acting Secretary of State
State Department
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.94)
JULY 19, 1941.
YPECT
IN THE NEW JAPANESE CABIN
IP
Oil for Japan
Charges That Supplies From United
States Support Bombers in China.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE SUN—Sir. I
have just received a message from my
husband, George A. Fitch. in Chung-
king. China. giving the text of an open
cable he sent to President Roosevelt.
Teijiro Toyoda
Masatsune Ogura
Forron Minister
voicing the opinion of all Americans
Finance Minister
in China's war-time capital. This
Tome Wide Worl! 1941
Times Wide World. 1941
cable, urging a more rigid embargo
against shipments of war materials
from the United States to Japan. reade:
Chungking Americans cannot under-
stand continued sale of gasoline and ol
to Japan after assurances last year
that liconsing system would check this
traffic. Recent bombings here when
thousends perished and American
Methodist hospital and pari of new
American Red Cross model village de-
stroyed, Americau Mlfary Attaché's
offices wrecked and Umited States
steamer Tutula seriously threatened.
also destruction countless Hves end
cities elsewhere, all enebled by use
our gasoline and oil. While China ap-
preciates American sympathy and aid.
has time mot come for us to stop being
partner in Japan's aggressios and
crime?
My husband was recently appointed
co-ordinator between the Chinese gov-
ernmant and the Industrial Co-epera-
tives, to help in the reorgamisation of
Chins's new system of decentralised
war industries. He thus acts as liaison
fer Indusco, the American Committee
in Aid' of Chinese Industrial Co-opera-
tives, wich is now partiotpeting imn th:
gront Ehatted Chaan ollet-datue tc
as o ia retiat fande to China.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.96)
States
DEPARTMENT OF STATF
August 25, 1941
1941
1941 AUG 28 AM I0 38
DIVISION UOF
COMMUNICOTIONS
September
Respectfully referredANe ResORrS
Ey
STATE DEPARTMENT
AUG 3 0 1941
WASHINGTON D C
OF
with thanks for such favorable considerati
the communication herewith submitted warrants,
and for a report thereon, to accompany return
of inclosure.
By direction of
. S. S.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
Y. HILL
LLANO, TEXAS.
Llano, Texas
August 14, 194
Hon'l. Tom Connerly
U. S. Senator
Chairman Foreign Relations Committee
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sir and Senator:
Frankly, are we as a Nation afraid to go to the bat
with Japan?
I hope not and sincerely believe not; BUT, I do
believe that ultimately, likely very soon we are going to
War with Japan, the Nation seems to believe it--then just
why do we sell oIL to them of any kind, or in any form?
Just two(2) big Jap. ship tankers
out of California (145,000 Barrels
of diesel fuel oil)--this week--
thank you.
That at least is AP/ News in our dailies yesterday; are
we still APPEASING these treacherous lieing orientals?
Well we will wake up some fine morning and find that they
have struck us hard--and below the belt, really that as
high as they can hit--ethically or physically.
I think that we had better quit appeasement as it
relates to war, politics, Labor Unions, France and Japan
but take our gloves off and get busy withoutofurther delay
before--"we miss the boat".
Very sincerely,
T. Y. HILL.
dc/f/h

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.90)
nember 4, 1941
My dear senater Cenmally:
Referenee is mede to your commmnication of August 25,
194l tranmitting a letter from Mr. T. Y. Hill of Llane,
Tems.
On August 1, the President announeed further regula-
tions regarding the export of petroloum produets in the
interest of national defense. I enclose a copy of that
annoumsement. Although Mr. Hill's letter was written
after the date of the announoement, you my wish to bring
it te his attemtiom.
simserely yours,
C. rdoll Ho
Ieelesures:
1565
1. Press rolease,
dated Angast 1, 1961.
S
B. Pram m. T. Y. Mmill
datod Angust 14, 1941,
with emelesure.
l
The Renevable
2947
Tom Commally.
Routine
Waited states semate.
とwy
FE
A-A(DA absent)
2022009-241
WA

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.93)
Jnly 20.1941
.225
Te the Amerioan Minister,
La Pag.
The Department transmits for the attentiom and
894.24/ 1565A
comments of the Legation a copy of a letter from
Mr. G. F. Thoreld, First Seeretary of the British
Embassy in Washington, to an ofricial of the Department,
conoerning the pessibility that the Japanese may
endeaver to ahip to Japan a produot (undoubtedly rubber)
of the "ywngas" ef Belivia.
Enclesure:
Frem Mr. Therold,
July 18, 1941.
PS/NW
A true copy off
2410415
thee
origl-
Thx

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
BRITISH EMBASBY
WASHINGTON, D.C.,
July 18th, 1941.
SAFE HAND
Dear Finletter,
Recent information which has reached us is to the
effect that the Japanese are making inquiries as to
Bolivian "yungas" product and have been asking for samples
to be sent to Tokyo.
I understand that "yungas" is the name of the forest
region east of La Paz which includes the rubber-growing
area on the Marmore, tributary to the Amazon. The yungas
produot referred to above is undoubtedly rubber of which
there used to be a small export (around about one thousand
tons per annum) 1n the years prior to 1936. The rubber is
exported principally through Para along with Amazon produo-
tion and we have records of certain small quantities which
have been recently exported from that port.
In the normal way it may be assumed that Bolivian
rubber passing in this way to Para would become subject
to Brazilian export restrictions but from the fact that
the Japanese are now making inquiries with regard to this
product it would appear likely that they are proposing
to find some other means of shipping it. Under these cir-
cumstances, while the quantities are not likely to reach
any very alarming figure, you may perhaps like to keep
this point in mind in any further negotiations you may
have with Bolivia for restriotion of their exports to
undesirable destinations.
Yours sincerely,
G. F. THOROLD
Mr. T. K. Finletter,
Special Assistant to the Secretary,
Room 362, U.8. Department of State,
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.91)
ARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRITARY
Note:
This was left by Mr. Carr
for Mr. Acheson to take home
Tuesday, Aug. 5. I am sure it
has been taken care of. Check
With PA/H Mr. Hiss to see if it
is still necessary for Mr. Acheson
to see this.
Mr. acheon nd
on aug.
this
hotsu
UEPARTMINT I
watt

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
30, 1941.
MK. HUMBELT.
UNDER
0 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WR. WELLES
PARnciPAnT: Mr. Walden and Mr. Singer, of Standard Vacuum Company;
Mr. Hiss;
Mr. Hornbeck (toward the end of the conversation).
Assistant Secretary
COPIIDS TO:
of State
894.24
AUG 1 -1941
MR. ACHESON
894.24/1566
1-1400
Mr. Walden for several days past has been asking for the Depart-
mont's views as to whether his Company should apply to the etherlands
East Indies authorities for the recently required export permits for
shipments of petroleum products to Jap'n and also as to whether the
Dopartment will recommend to the Treasury Department that the Japanese
be allowed to transfer dollars to Standard Vaouum in payment for such
SEP.8-
shipments.
Mr. Walden said that in his opinion public criticism of oil ship-
monts to Japan is so great that his Company cannot accept the responsi-
S
/NW
bility for making such sales without the approval of this Government.
 said that in the past he has been willing to deal on an informal
mois but that he thinks he should get some definite approval in writing
at

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
present time--later he indicated that a formal grant of an
hange license to the Japanese interests concerned for the
insfer of dollars in New York might constitute such formal approval.
Both Mr.. Walden and Mr. Singer said that they considered that
this Government's decision with respect to further shipments of
petroleum from the Netherlands East Indies to Japan will be considered
by the Japanese as a "touchstone" of our policy. As Mr. Singer
expressed it, if an assurance is given that the continuance of ship-
ment will be permitted, the Japanese will say "Ah, not so tough ".
On the other hand, they both considered that refusal to permit such
shipments would be a matter of grave importance.
Mr. Walden said that he had been in touch with Mr. Schmidt, of
the Treasury Department, who said that he could give no information
until the whole matter had been cleared with the Department of State.
Mr. Walden said that he will not give his representatives in the
Indies instructions to apply for export permits unless he first
receives formal approval by the United States Government for the
transfer of exchange--partly because his Company does not wish to
accept payment in guilders or in yen; primarily because of the con-
siderations mentioned above. He said that he had told Mr. Schmidt
plainly that the financial aspect of the problem to his Company was
unimportant. His Company wishes to be guided entirely by and to
follow fully the policies of the United States Government.
At

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
At this point Mr. Hornbeck was able to see Mr. Walden for a few
moments and recommended that Mr. Walden postpone any action with
respect to exports from the Indies to Japan for a few days.
Mr. Walden said that he hoped that he could hear not later than
Monday, August 4, as several vessels will be loading in the Indies by
that time.
aw
PA/H:AHisS:BGT

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ADVISER ON POLITICAL RELATIONS
Auguet 5, 1941.
A-A
Rix
If the attached memo meets
with your approva! will you please
initial and route?
(I euggeet routing to U, 3,
PA/H and FE.)
CH
Assistan: Secrctary 
of State
AUG 6 - 1941
ak.
MR. ACHESON
PA/H:AH1ee:FLB

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.95)
RTMEN
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AUG 8 1941
RDOEIV
Memorandum ofConversat
NOTED
AUG 1 5 1941
FAR EARNRS
DATE: August 4, 1941.
1541B
VA
Departument of State
Potroleum Shipments from the Netherlands East Indies
SUBJECT:
to Japan.
PArticipants: Dr. Loudon, Minister of the Netherlands, and Baron van
Boetzelaer, Minister Counselor of the Netherlands;
Mr. Noel Hall, Minister, British Embassy;
294.74
Mr. Dean Aoheson, Assistant' Secretary of State, and
Mr. Alger Hiss.
Assislan: Secrctary
COPIES TO:
of State
AUG 6 - 1941
L
894.24/|567
MR. ACHESON
1-1408
Mr. Acheson talked first briefly to Mr. Noel Hall and told him that
it had beon decided that the wisest policy for this Government to follow
with respect to advice to the Standard-Vacuum Company regarding that
company's shipments of petroleum from the Netherlands East Indies to
Japan would be to inform the company substantially as follows: (1) As
to the contraot entered into in November 1940 between the Standard-Vacuum
Company and the Japanese Company we would suggest to the Standard-Vaouum
Company that it not make application to the Netherlands East Indies
Government for export licenses for shipments of petroleum oalled for in
A
FILFD
the contract. It would be presumed that the purohasing company, i.6,
PS/
the Japanese Company, would be sufficiently interested to make suoh
19
applioations if it desired to continue to receive shipments of petrdloum
under the contract. The Japanese Company appears in any event to be the
appropriate

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
riate party to make such application; (2) With respect to the
any's normal business with Japan carried on by its own branoh in
under a quota established by the Japanese Government, it would
be wise to make no decision at the present time and the company should
make no application for the present for export licenses.
Mr. Noel Hall said that he considered the proposal wise and that
his authorization was sufficiently broad to permit him to say without
hesitation and without referring the matter to his Government that the
British Government would adopt a like policy with respect to the
Shell Company.
At this point in the conversetion Dr. Loudon and Baron van
Boetzelaer were received by Mr. Acheson, Mr. Hall remeining with the
oonferees.
Mr. Acheson thereupon explained to the Netherlands representatives
the above proposal of this Government stating that the British Govern-
ment was in accord with our position. Mr. Acheson went on to explain
that we felt that the Netherlands Indies Government should be in position
to determine with complete freedom of action what, if any, part of the
companies' shipments of petroleum should continue to go forward to Japan
under present conditions. It was explained that in order to make it
clear that this Government was not recommending that the Netherlands
Government decide to continue existing shipments but was leaving the
matter up to the Indies Government, this Government had requested the
American Company--the British Government is taking similar action with
respect

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
ot to the Shell Company--to make no applications and no representa
0
ons in the matter. Mr. Acheson further stated that in order to accord
y decision of the Netherlands Government full support he wished to say
that in the event that the Netherlands Government decided to issue export
libenses for any petroleum products belonging to the two companies, the
United States Government would authorize payment from blocked Japanese
(2)
funds in the United States to the companies concerned and, on the other
hand, in the event that the Netherlands Government decided to refuse
'any export licenses for petroleum products, this Government correspond-
ingly would refuse to issue licenses under our freezing orders for pay-
ment for such shipments and, further, would be glad to announce this
publicly in order to show that ve were in full agreement with the
Netherlands Government and that, in fact, it would be useless in any
such case for the Netherlands Government to authorize export licenses
since by virtue of the policy of the United States Government payment
could not be made for the authorized shipments.
Dr. Loudon and Baron van Boetzelaer listened attentively and asked
a number of questions. They expressed their appreciation for the con-
sideration shown to the Netherlands Indies Government and said that they
would obtain the reaction of that Government to the proposals ir. Acheson
had outlined. Mr. Acheson made it clear that with respect to the normal
or quota business our tentative decision to hold the matter in abeyance
would remain in effect for about a week, at the end of which time the
matter could be reconsidered, we hoped with the benefit of the views of
the Netherlands Indies Government.
Dr. Loudon

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
Loudon remarked that as was obvious,political as well as eco-
o considerations were involved. He said that the Indies Government
ght wish to discuss the relevant political questions with the United
tates Government before arriving at a decision. Mr. Acheson replied
that he understood this perfectly and that if it developed that the
Indies Government did desire to raise political questions, Dr. Loudon
should take such questions up with the Secretary of State.
At this point Dr. Loudon had to leave the meeting in order to. keep
an appointment with the Under Secretary. Mr. Acheson then made avail-
able in strict confidence to Mr. Hall and to Baron van Boetzelaer
copies of a memorandum prepared in Co listing the detailed restrictions
now in effect with respect to the export of petroleum products from
the United States to Japan. This memorandum indicated which items are
on a completely prohibited basis and es to the other items set forth
the quantities which will be permitted to be exported during the re-
maining half of this yeer. Mr. Acheson orally described, again in
strict confidence, the other restrictions vis-à-vis Japan with respect
to exports and imports. Both Mr. Hall and Baron van Boetzelaer expressed
their appreciation for the information which had been supplied to them
and said that it would be helpful to their governments.
Previous to the above meeting Mr. Acheson had informed Mr. Walden,
Chairman of the Board of the Standard-Vacuum Company, of the Department's
deoision. Mr. Walden had expressed himself as completely cooperative
in spirit and had said that he would impress upon Mr. Wilkinson of the
Bholl Company the importance of the Shell Company's following the same
srooedure.
/H:AH1OS:BGT

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF&TATE
an
1941 AUG 1Sugst2 A1 1941 Assistant Seoretary
of State
AUG 6 - 1941
a87
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
MR. ACHESON
Mr. Acheson:
AND RECORDS
In the course of my conversation with Mr. Walden this
morning with reference to the messages he will send to
his Company's representatives in the Netherlands East Indies
and in Japan, Mr. Walden said that he wanted to make it
t the Department
clear that as a matter of policy his Company wished to adopt--
894.24/ 1568
subject to the approval of the Netherlands authorities--with
respeot to its shipments from the Netherlands East Indies to
Japan, policies which would not be more liberal--on a
comparable basis--than those imposed by the United States
Government with respect to shipments of petroleum products
from the United States to Japan.
In order to be sure that his Company followed a
comparable practice he requested that we make available to
894.24
him in confidence details of our present policy with respeet
to restriotions on exportation of petroleum products to
Japan.
PS
Mr. Walden also said that he believed that the Shell
Company should, and would want to, follow a similar practiee
with respeot to their shipments from the Netherlands East
5
Indies to Japan. He implied that we would wish to authorize
6

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
the British Embassy here in Washington to make similar
information available to the Shell Company.
If you approve Mr. Walden's request I suggest that Co
for his personal and confidential cese
be authorized to present to Mr. Walden a copy of the same
material which Mr. Acheson yesterday handed to Baron van
Boetzelaer of the Netherlands Legation and to Mr. Noel Hall
of the British Embassy and further that Co be authorized to
inform Mr. Noel Hall that the Department sees no objection
in striel confidence
to his making available to the Shell Company the Information
which has been given to him/ the information for the Shell
Company being given in order to enable that Company, if it
so desires, to follow the same procedure which the Standard-
Vacuum has decided to follow).
Presumably the policy which Mr. Walden has said his
Company will wish to adopt will be adopted only in the event
that the Netherlands East Indies Government does not on its
own initiative decide to restrict exports of petroleum
products from the Netherlands East Indies to Japan on some
basis at least as restrictive as the restrictions now en-
forced by the United States Government on exports of
petroleum products from the United States to Japan.
at
PA/H:AH1ss:FLB

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE:
August 4, 1941,
SUBJECT:
Potraleum Shipments from the Netherlands East Indies
to Jaan.
PARTICIPANTS:
Dr. Loudon, Minister of the Netherlands, and Baron van
Boetzelaer, Minister Counselor or the Netherlands;
Mr. Noel Hall, Minister, British Embassy;
Mr. Dean Aoheson, Assistant Seoretary of State, and
Mr. Alger Hiss.
COPIES TO:
ero
1--1403
Mr. Aeheson talked first briefly to r. Noel Hall and told him that
it had been decided that the wisest poliey for this Government to follow
with respeet to advioe to the Standard-Vaouum Company regarding that
eompany's shipments of petroleum from the Netherlands East Indies to
Japan would be to inform the company substantially as follows: (1) As
so the contraot entered into in November 1940 between the Standard-Vaouum
Company and the Japanese Company we would suggest to the Standard-Vacuum
Company that it mot make application to the Netherlands East Indies
Gevermment for export licenses for shipments or petroleum salled for in
the eentraet. It would be presumed that the purohasing company, i.e.,
the Japanese Company, would be surriciently interested to make such
applieations ir it desired to continue to recsive shipments of petroleum
under the eontract. The Japanese Company appears in any event to be the
appropriate

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.83)
hth
 mo appltoatien for the present for expert lieenses.
el all caid that he coneidered the prepesal wise and that
 risatien was safflelently bread to permit his to ay without
 and without refersing the matter to his Goverament that the
Sestich Savermmont weuld sdept a like poliey vith respeet to the
y.
As this peimt in the cenversation Dr. Leuden and Baren van
Seeteckeer wevre reseived by Mr. Aekesen, Mr. Nall remaining with the
emferese.
Mr. Aehesen thereupen explained to the Netherlsmds representatives
the abeve prepesal of shis Geverament stating that the Brisish Gevern-
mems was in aecerd with eur pesitien. Mr. Aehesen went em te explain
thas we felt that the Betherlamds Indies Geverament sheuld be in pesitien
to detesmime with eomplete freedem of aetien what, if any, part of the
compemies' shipmests of petrelomm should ceatimue to go forvare to Japen
wméer presemt eenditiems. It was explained thas in orier to make it
Gloar thas this Gevermment was met recemmending that the Netherlands
Goremement deeide to contimue existing shipeents bus was leaving the
masser up So the Indies Geverament, this Geverament had requested the
Amovionm Gompany--the Rritiah Goverament is taking sinilar aotien vith
poopeet

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.83)
(2)
 to she sompies conre d the er
s shat the Retheriends Government desided to refuse
sulé refuse to issee lisemses unéer our fressins oréere for pay-
 mek shipmsmts and, farther, would be glad to ammeumse this
y in eréer te show that we were in full agreemeet with the
Setherlamde Goverameat and shat, in fest, it would be uselese in aay
su ease fer the Metherlands Gevernment to asthorise expert liesases
simse by virtue of she poliey of the Umited Ssates Goveramems pepmems
could met be meée fer the eusherised shipments.
Dr. Leadem and Baron van Bostseleer listemed assentively and askeé
a masher of questiens. They expressed their appreciasien fer the eem-
miéeresion sheum te the Hetherlends Indies Geverament and said that thay
e ebtain the resesion of that Gevezameat to te prepesals r. seheses
 outliaed. r, sebesen mede it eleer thet with respeet se she merml
ote business our tentasive deslalen to beld tàe mtter ia cbegasse
Dr.1

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.92)
after 5.30 pm
May-tS Schugln
4-6137
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF
ATIONS AND  18, 1941
77A
a-a.
Gr. Green:
PAH
Xr. Hornbeck:
Reference attached file in regard to
the question of the sale by the Standard-
Vaouum Cil Company of 86 octane gasoline
to Japanese armed forces in China.
It 1s suggested that Mr. Adams be
authorized to telephone to Mr. May along
lines as follows:
While the Department is not in position
to advise the Standard-Vacuum Oil Connany
in regard to the draft message which
Nove
Mr. Parker left with Mr. Hamilton and
Mr. Adame, the statement aula be made that
1f the Standard-Vacuum Ofl Company should
g0k,18
exportation of 86 octane gasoline to oc-
N
oupied China that application would receive
treatment and consideration similar to thatkin
19+1
given other applications of a like nature.
C
No assurance whatsoever oan be given that the
present situation in regard to export appli-
cations will continue.
JAM
Nole: On uceinnig bert nesag
FE: AGaMB: MHP
Mm. may said he was in limet is "take ua chane
and sind ine moposed telegram.
WA

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT-OFSTATE
Memorana
DIVIBION OEF
DATE: July 17 1
JUL231941
DIVISION OF
rootane gasoline to Jap
med forces in China
Mr. P. W. Parker)
Standard-Vacuum-Oil Company
Mr. A. G. May
Mr. Hamilton
Mr. H. W. Moseley (Co)
Mr. Adams
SOPIES TO:
1-1408
Mr. Parker and Mr. May, having made an appointment by
894.24/1569
long-distance telephone, called at the Department in regard
to the difficult position in which the North China mangger
for the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company, Mr. F. J. Twogood,
Shanghai, found himself as a result of Japanese pressure.
The Standard-Vacuum Oil Company, which has recently been
permitted by the Japanese military to make shipments of
petroleum products from Shanghai to points along the
AIL
FILHD
Yangtze, has been informed by the Japanese military that
8
if the company refuses to supply considerable quantities
of petroleum products, including 86 octane gasoline, the
facilities recently granted the company would be cut off
and severe restrictions upon its activities imposed. The
company

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
company was given to understand that its decision in the
matter would be considered as an indication of the company's
policy and that the attitude of the Japanese forces toward
the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company would be influenced ac-
cordingly. Mr. Parker indicated that the North China
manager for the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company was "on the
spot". He said that the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company had
avoid
n
been able to
 the demand for the supply of gasoline
from the Dutch East Indies by simply saying that no gaso-
line was available. He said, however, that this excuse
was not available in so far as gasoline from the West Coast
of the United States was concerned because the Japanese
were prepared to provide a tanker to transport the gaso-
line from the West Coast to Shanghai. He said that if
the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company stated that it could not
obtain an export permit for 86 octane gasoline and some
other oil company with no investment in China were to
supply the gasoline, the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company would
be placed in an untenable position vis-à-vis the Japanese.
He said that the Japanese would have to have storage
facilities in China for the petroleum products and he very
much feared that the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company would be
faced with the commandeering of Standard-Vaouum Oil Company
storage facilities in China for the storage of petroleum
products

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
roduots purchased from other oil companies by the
Japanese. Mr. Parker said that he felt that it was un-
fair for his company to have to bear the burden of
refusing to sell gasoline to the Japanese and he hoped
that the Government could assume that responsibility by
rerusing to grant export licenses.
Mr. Parker and Mr. May were informed that, although
they could not use such information vis-a-vis the Japanese,
no licenses had in fact been issued for some months for the
exportation to Japan or occupied China of gasoline of an
86 octane rating. This information seemed good news to
Mr. Parker and Mr. May. They asked, however, whether
unused outstanding licenses issued several months ago
would be revoked. They were told that they could be
given no assurance in this respect.
Mr. Parker was asked whether his company had con-
sidered temporizing in the matter. He replied that the
problem under discussion was already some two months old.
Mr. Parker handed Mr. Hamilton a copy of the telegram
dated July 16 which he had received from the Shanghai
manager of the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company outlining the
situation and Mr. Parker drafted a suggested reply to that
message. (Both are attached hereto, together with a copy
of the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company's message of July 15 to
1ts

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
-4
ita manager at Shanghai.)
Mr. Parker said that if the company were to quote the
Japanese on 86 octane gasoline in the expectation that it
would not be able to get action upon its applicationXor an
export permit, the company would be placed in an embarrassing
position if permission were forthcoming.
Mr. Parker and Mr. May were told that the matter would
be reported to the higher authorities and that Mr. Adams
would expect to telephone to Mr. Parker or to Mr. May in
regard to the matter on July 18.
(Note: The attitude of Mr. Parker and Mr. May in-
dioated that the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company's extreme
reluctance to supply 86 octane gasoline to the Japanese
armed forces was due to their concern about public opinion
both in China and the United States.)
(Note: During the conversation Messrs. Parker and
May first proposed that the Department authorize them to
reply that the American Government would not permit ex-
portation of the gasoline in question to occupied China.
Mr. Hamilton and Mr. Adams both commented that they did
not think that the Department would wish to authorize
the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company to make such a statement.)
FE:Adams:MHP

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
Buggested reply to F. J. Tom
cable of July 16
from Shanghai:
We are willing to quote on 200,000 units 86 octane
gasoline ex. west coast provided we can secure export
permit for which we will apply and further provided we
can charter full cargo Japanese tanker via Shanghai stop
however, feel we should point out there will probably be
some delay in securing permit.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
EEB
FJ TWOGOOD
SWANGHAI
TJD
GEE
PARKER
NEW YORK
WP
JULY 16/41
8 10 AM
11 50 AM
REFER AGAIN OUR TELEGRAM NO. 69 YOUR TELEGRAM OF JULY 15TH RECENT-LY
APPROVED SHIPPING PERMITS TOTAL 30,00O UNITS KEROSENE 750 TONS DIESEL OIL
520O CASES GASOLINE APPLICATION-S PENDING WILL BE GRANTED OR REFUSED IN
ACCORDANCE WITH YOUR FINAL DECISION IF DECISION FAVORABLE WE HAVE BEEN
PROMISED SHIPPING PERMITS ALL RIVER POINTS UP TO HANKOW IF DECISION
UNFAVORABLE PERMITS WILL NOT BE CBTAIKABLE AND YOUR BLANK REFUSAL
TO ASSIST WILL BE CONSIDERED AND INDICATION (OF) YOUR POLICY (TO) REFUSE
SUCH SUPPLIES (STOP) ALTHOUGH I (WE) HAVE AVOIDED INDICATING THAT YOUR
REPLY MIGHT BE FAVORABLE NOT ONLY M. B. K. LTD AND STANDARD VACUUM OIL CO.
BUT I PERSONALLY WILL BE ON A SPOT AND I (WE) MUST GIVE SOME MORE
ACCEPTABLE REASONS THAN THE ONE-S GIVEN IN YOUR TELEGRAM THEREFORE I
STRONGLY URGE RECONSIDERATION (OF) YOUR ATTITUDE AND EVERY EFFORT BE MADE
(TO) INDICATE-S A-N DESIRE (TO) RECIPROCATE BY SUPPLYING SOME PORTION (OF
ENQUIRY-S WITH ACCEPTABLE PRODUCT-S PERHAPS BY JAPANESE VESSEL-S FRCM
WEST COAST WHERE SUPPLIES ARE AVAILABLE (STOP) N VIEW (OF) THE APPROVAL
GIVEN IN YOUR TELEGRAM NO. 14 (TO) MAKE-ING SHIPMENT-S KNOWING THAT IT
(THIS) INQUIRY WOULD FOLLOW I (WE) REGRET (THAT) IT :S NECESSARY TO
REQUEST YOU CABLE MORE FULLY CONCERNING YOUR VIEWS AND (TO) PROVIDE ME
WITH SOME ASSISTANCE IN MEETING THIS DIFFICULT SITUATION (STOPI LAST
WIRELESS MESSAGE (FROM) SHANGHAI CONSULATE GENERAL TO STATE DEPARTMENT
SENT JULY 11TH
F J TWOGOOD

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.92)
OUTGOINO CABLEGRAM
XFC
TJD
OM REFINED NEW YORK
ann
TOTWOGOOD SOCOMAN SHANGHAI
ELMM
AGM
YP
DATE
JULY 15/41
NO.
TIME SENT
6 PM
CONFMD. BY LETTER
FV
Yours July loth although your letter June 2üth unreceived and
Department of State has not yet heard from Consulate we regret
exoeedingly that supply position is such we definitely unable to
make offer or shipment now or in near future of either Aviation Oils
or any Gasolines we could recommend for Aviation uses.

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.92)
ADMINISTRATOR OF EXPORT CONTROL
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE BUILDING
WASHINGTON
OFFIC  S
August 4, 1941
DCR
AUG-51941
B
STATE
DEPARTMENI F STATE
sion of
0
F EASTERN AFFAIRS
M. THORNBURG, DEPARTMENT OF STATE:
12
A6 12
Subjeot: Petroleum Quotas for Japan
1'State
At the meeting on August 1, 1941, attended by Mesers.
GaryA Thornburg, Robinson, Monrad, Converse, Graf, Russell,
and Brewster to disouss the prohibition of the export of
certain petroleum products to Japan, one of the subjects dis-
oussed, but of whioh no record was made, was that of our
ability to supply Japan with the stated quotas for crude oil
894.24
and gasoline of a type not embargoed. The consensus of the
meeting was that there would be no great diffioulty in seouring
such orude oil and gasoline in the amounts set forth in the
quota and that the gasoline so seoured would be of a quality
us able as motor fuel for civilian purposes.
If this agrees with your recolleotion of the disous-
sion, please initial one of the attached copies and return to
me at Room 1835, Commerce Building.
AUG12 1941
OlBrewter
5
TL
1141
O. C. Brewster,
PARTMINT
Planning Division.
OCB/mb (8-5-41)
The following was written by Mr. Thornburg on carbon copy
of this letter (the copy then being returned to Mr. Brewster):
I agree essentially - but surmise that they might have seme
diffioulty. However they will undoubtedly be able to get
the quota quantities.
Max Thornburg
PS/NW
Thombur
5 August
Assistant Socretary!
of State
XH
AUG 8 - 1941
MR. ACHESON

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.94)
morandum,
TELEPHONE
DATE:-Augu
1941 AUG 15 PM 3 52
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
Mr. Walter J. Donnelly, Commercial Attaché, Rio de Janeiro
Mr. Collado (RA)
wa
During the course of a conversation with Mr.
15
Donnelly I referred to three different shipping matters;
1) Bunkering of Japanese vessels - I referred to
the Department's recent telegram indiceting that the
United States policy was to give such bunker facilities
to Japan only in the minimum amount necessary for the
Japanese vessels to make their ports. Mr. Donnelly stated
that the Brazilians were adopting a similar policy. I
took occasion to mention that of course any coal and
petroleum furnished to Japanese vessels was a tapping of
Brazilian supplies in the face of a very difficult
supply situation. I repeated that it was the Departmentle
40
view that all such supplies should be devoted primarily
to Inter American commerce and Western Hemisphere defenee
2)

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
2) Immobilized ships - I referred to the Depart-
ment's telegram of Thursday regarding the immobilized ships
and repeated that the Department was very anxious that
Brazil accept the plan. With respect to the question
of the German vessels and our views on allowing the
NORDNERNEY to depart, I stated that beyond the fact that
we could not obtain safe passage from the British Govern-
ment, the Department felt that it could not comment in such
a matter, which was obviously up to the decision of
the Brazilians. I pointed out that, of course, this
Government hoped that Brazil would very shortly put into
service as many vessels as possible. Mr. Donnelly stated
that they would report very promptly on the status of the
matter.
3) British ship warrants - I referred to Rio's
832.85/197,196
telegrams nos. 1030 end 1038 and stated that the Depart-
ment was going into the matter informally with the British.
I stated that the Department would inform the Embassy in
more detail but that our general view was that shipping
within the Western Hemisphere, and especially coastwise
shipping, was a matter of concern to the American republics
and that the British should not attempt to. control it.
ee
RA:Co1ladoMJC

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.96)
t or Petroloum Produets from N.E.I. to Japan
894.247
Torge S. Walden, Standard-Vacuum Company,
Division of
百ger Hiss.
2
FAR EASTERLAFFAIRS
Assistant Secretary6
AUC 21 1941
of State
Department of
MR. HORnBECK
ou
AUG 21 1941
MRY ACHESON
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
8
Mr. Walden telephoned from New York and aid that
his experts had now studied the mimeographed memorandum
1572
setting forth those petroleum products the export of
which to Japan is prohibited. (This memorandum was
sent to Mr. Walden at Mr. Acheson's direction by Mr. Yost.)
Mr. walden said that under the specifioations set
forth in the memorandum no crude could be exported from
the Netherlands East Indies except for the so-called
special Tarakan which is actually-a natural Diesel oil
and is always used in its natural-conditlon without
AJG821941
refinement. In addition, he said that he believed the
no gasoline now being made in the Indies could be
exported
I told

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
I told Mr. Walden of the message from Mr. van Karnebeek
which had come in for him and he remarked that apparently
the experts in the Indies had reached the same conclusion
in view of the statement in van Karnebeek's message that
the export of crude oil would not be permitted.
Mr. Walden said that in view of the effect of our
regulations upon the situation in the Indies he would
not continue his plan to send a cable immediately to his
representatives but would wait until he heard further from
us as to the deoisions of policy to be made by the
Netherlands Indies Government.
Mr. Walden said that he hoped he could receive
additional information from us soon as he must make
necessary arrangements promptly.
a
PA/H:HisS:BGT

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.94)
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
ERONOMIC AFFAIRS
RECETVHL
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AUG 28 1941ahtgton, ..
BYSDECIAL
August 25, 1941
PERSONAL AND
DIVISION UI
CONFIDENTIAL
68
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr. Division of
Assistant Secretary of StateFAR EASTERN AFfAIRS
Department of State
C
AUG 30 194
Washington, D. C.
AUG 26 1941
Department of State
MR. BERLE
Dear Mr. Berle:
As of possible interest to you, information has
been furnished this Bureau by a strictly confidential source
that on August 11, 1941, the San Francisco Branch of the
Bank of Canton had two letters of credit issued at Shanghai,
China, for the purchase of diesel oil in the United States.
894.24/1573
The source of this information was of the opinion that this
oil might be reshipped to Japan.
22
The descriptions of the two letters of credit are
as follows:
1. Letter of credit in the amount of $94,000.00, expiring
August 31, 1941, was issued at Shanghai, China, on June 30,
1941, for the purchase of 2,000 tons of diesel oil of 24/25
gravity API at 47.00 per ton or less. Beneficiary - American
Petroleum Export Company, 81o South Spring Street, Los Angeles,
Department of State
COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
California. Drawee - North American Syndicate, Shanghai,
China. At present there is an undrawn balance of 7,705.28
SEP 5- 1941
DD
on this letter.
I
Oat an unknown date, was issued at Shanghai, China, on June 21,
1941, for the purchase of 1,200 tons of diesel oil at a price
60l O'Farrell Street, San Francisco, California. Drawee -
S
SEP1 6 1941
Arnold Kiehn, Ina Shanghai, China. At present there is an
FILED
Q.00 on this letter.
undrawn
Ile
PS/MS
Sincerely yours,
AUG 2 6 1941
 Lo. Aoover

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.90)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
IEaperte of Pheaphates.
Infermatton regerding the."
FX
For the original paper from which reference is taken
(Despalch, telegram, instruction, letter, elo.)
PS/DR
From
Datedy19
To
File No.
.
U. 8. GOVERNNSNT PRINTIN6 OPFICE 1-1840

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.97)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Epertatien of eil to Japan from United States.
Cenversation between President of United States and
Japanese Ambassader regarding restricted,- and
mevement ef Japanese in Netherlands East Indies in
order te assure themselves of a greater oil
supply than that which, under present conditions,
they are ablt to obtain.
894.24/1575
FLH
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
memorandum
PS/DR
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
From
Dated._July 24...1941
..State.Department
To
Conndential
Under Secretary
(Welles)
File No.
711.94/2177
U. S. GOVENNENT PRINTING OFFICE 1-1560

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF SIATEUL 20 1942
July 19, 1941.
Mr. Welles requests that the necessary papers be
prepared for putting into execution:
1. A freezing of Japanese and, simultaneously,
of Chinese funds;
2. A prohibition (restriction?) of imports of silk
(and other important imports?) from Japan;
894.24/1575
3. A lowering of the specification for octane
content of gasoline and a reduction in the qualities of
lubricating oils export of which to Japan may be licensed
and establishing of a quota for exports of petroleum
products based on a period in which the exports were not
abnormally large.
Mr. Welles said that he would like to have thes
12
papers ready by Monday.
JUL 2 7 1942
FILED
PS/GH
PA/H:SKH: FLB

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.90)
Jume 30, 1941
EMMORANDON FOR NAJOR SOOTT; ONIN, INPONNATION DIVISION:
Subjeot: Petrolexm Sehedule Wo. 10
1. In a diseussion on Saturday, June 21, 1941, Mr.
Roberteem (Division of Controls), Mr. Dambres, aad I agreed
that the followins informatien to experters would answer the
questione whieh have been reised in sonneetlen with the API
Gravity requirement of sehedule Ne. 10 and that the elassif1-
estiom sorangement outlimed in paragraphs 3 & 4 below, should
elarify questions as to wha; 1tems should appear on any one
applioation.
2. BaVIIX. In genereal the API sravity fer each separate
D
1tem showm on an applioation should be given. However, 1t 1s
au
quite likely that at simes suveral different olls may properly
be imoluded in a single item, as, for example, a mixéd con-
sigmmemt of lubrioante. In this case we agreed that the srayity
mage fer the materials inoluded under the single entry wlll be
2
entirely satisfectory. This requirement should impose no hard-
ship on anyone.
3. CLASSIFICATION NE PRODUOTS. Sohodul. No. 1O ineludes
twe main éladelrieations, (I) those put under eentrol fer the
first time in this sekedule and (2) those previously under con-
trel. the mew preducts, all af whieh go out under general
license and for whieh no individual applioations are neeessary
are listed belew, weing the letter desigation used in Sehedule
01 101-
a. Mew produets, subjeot to general lieense: Iteme
Q. I， b， b， ， I， L， B， B， I， I. y， I，andX.
b. Shippers mst ezereise eare that, when placing a
predset La ene ef these categeries, 1t dees met also fall iate
ene af the ether eategeries mhieh de require lndividual lleenses.
Fer emmmple, a lubriesting eil P, Q, or I, if it alse falls under
theve, were wader ceatrel befere the
appe Sele No. 10. These products divide into two

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.91)
cmmes1
Grade 011
Koter Fuel è Gasoline
E, I
D(z), F,0
Totreethyl Load
Lebrieants
0(3)
D(1), O(B)
Petroleum Coke
(1) I prodmots, when ruse , should be s
Glassed. when, in act, they are lubr cants
or stecks, 1. s. "any other material", they
should be elassed as lubrieants er steeks.
(2) Item I Mmatural Gasollae, should be elassed
as I. Aviatiom Moter Tuel, 1f it falls under
the desimition of L.
(3) Lubrieants whiah fall under the definitiem
of Aviation Lubrieating Oil (0), but mhich
are, in fact. not aviation lubrieation oil
but are, for example, blaek tranemiesion
oils, may be olassed in group 2, above.
Under the regulations only one gomodity may appear on
amy eme applleation. Therefors, no ome applieation mhould
eever more than ome commedity as listed above and furthermore,
due te the difference in control over differemt elassifieatiome
a tho sme sommodity no one apolioatlon should show com-
modities falling into different groups as set sut above. For
exmmple, iteme  and I may appear on the mme applicatien, and
1tems D, L, and g, may appeer tegether en another applieation
but items I and , although both are motor fuel, ahould mot
appear on a single applloation.
oob/es
O.C. Breweter,
Planning Division
00: Lt. Gol. Bato
Mr. Robertson (Div. of Controle)
Mr. Dumbros (Lioenaing Div.)

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.92)
LL EXPORTO OL PETROLEVA PHODUCTO
1936-1986
1935
100
AYErEL
(8011.0)
Orade Petroloum
10,483,254 bb1. 10,381,286 bb1s. 10,432,289 bb18.
(8021-8022)
1.
Gaseline
600,2?3 bbl.
1,082,471 bbls.
890,872 bbls.
(5020)
Saphtha solvents, and
N.B.C.
129 bble.
129 bble.
other finished light
produets.
(8030.0)
Gas 011 and fuel o11 5,129,254 bble. 4,990,140 bble.
5,059,697 bbls.
(5031.0)
Res1dual fuel 011 4,163,228 bbls. 4,265,488 bbls. 4, 214,358 bbls.
(5038-5034-5035-5039.0)
Lubrieating oils
280,451 bb1e.
308, 295 bb1.
294,373 bbla.
(B025-8026)
Keresene
31, 389 bble.
271 bble.
18,830 bbls.
(8037)
Mineral epirits
189 bble.
129 bblo.
189 bble.
(5038)
Transformer oil
1,939 bble.
49 bble.
994 bble.
(8041.0)
Lubrieating greases 6,921,585 lbs.
6,388,446 1bs.
6,665,015 1ba.
(5047.0)
Petroloum asphalt
4,367 tone
5,445 tons
3,901 tone
(5048.0)
Petroleum ooke
0
1,077 tone
539 tons
(8231.0)
Petroleum Jelly
153,177 1be.
411,139 1ba.
282,158 1b.
(5045-5048)
Paraffin wax
511b.
364,666 1b8.
4,930 1ba.
Liquefled Petroloum gases N.s.c.
762 1bs.
762 100.
1938: 5018.0,8016.0.5017.0

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.96)
UNITED STATES
EOEIVED
TMEN: F SADEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
OFFICE OF PETROLEUM COORDINATOR
OF
CON
941 SFP 2 AM 11 17
FOR NATIONAL DEFENSE
WASHINGTON
OF
SEP 4 1941
ATIONS
August 28, 1941.
RDS
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Hon. Cordell Hull,
SEP 1.41941
Secretary of State.
Departhent of 9
My dear Mr. Secretary:
Since matters concerning the exporting of petroleum products
94.24
are within the jurisdiction of the Department of State, the attached
894.24/1576
letter is referred to you for consideration and reply.
Sincerely yours,
Powolland
G. W. Holland,
Special Assistant.
Enclsure 2861424
SEP171941
FILED
PS/DR

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.98)
INTERIOR DEPT
CHAS. P. COPELAND. M. D.
RECEIVED
3 CONNALLY BUILDING
ATLANTA, GA.
AUG 1- 1941
RIORDEPT
OFFICE OF
AILCENTER
ECRETARY'S
July 30, 1941.
THE SECRETARY
AUG11 1941
TO DEPUTY PETRO-
LEUMCOORDINATOR
Mr. Harold Ickes,
Washington, D C.
Dear Mr. Ickes:
By the papers I am informed that we are about to be de-rived
of our one method of keeping cool on Sunday afternoon, namely we are
to be asked to reduce our use of gasoline unless it is absolurely neo-
essary.
Is shis so that we can sell more of it to Japan for the
purpose not only of fightly our ally,wChina, but as I understand it
they have reserves for one year WITH WHICH THEY CAN FIGHT US.
That is the craziest thing I have ever heard of. Is it
so that the Standard Oil and other big oil companies will not lose their
revenus. Are we to be kioked around by Japan's foilbes? Let them BUY
their gas from "he Dutch Indies, if they try to get it otherwise then
lets step in and give them what Germany says she must get. If Japan has
no more sense that to let the carpet chewer tell her what to do let her
take the consequences.
I for one dont feel called upon to save on gas when it is
being shipped to Japan with whom we may soon be in war.
we have been sending the serap iron for the manufacture of
schrapnel to kill Chinese ever since the Sino-Jap war started and we
say that China is our friend and ally. Such assininty is beyond my
ken. Oh, yes, I know there are plenty of exouses but they are devoid of
reason. Let Japan keep her silk, we can use rayon or calico, China
perfers Calico to silk anyway, because she has plenty of sålk and calioo
is IMPORTED. Slush.
2012AUG20'41
Yours,
PP.Ppfledn.

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.95)
BY AIR MAIL
LEGATION OF THE
ORIGINAL
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
La Paz, Bolivia, August 23, 191
SON OF
SEP
No. 1029
THEMERICAN REPUBLICS
PARTMENT OF STATÉ
Subject:
Possibility that Japanese May Endeavhr to Ship
Product of the Yungas Region of Bolivia.
Divisiop of
FAR EASTETINLOFFAIHS
SEP2 1941
Departmont of State
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
Information gvey
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
. madris ly
SEP31941
litter 9-22-4
DEPARTMOF STATE
HT-c8
894.24
3
894.24/1577
2
0-
E
S
"Fo" listribution
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's instruc-
1565A
tion No. 225 of July 25, 1941, transmitting a copy of a
letter from the First Secretary of the British Embassy in
Washington with reference to the possibility that thesJa-
anese may endeavor to ship to Japan a product of the yungas
PS/MS
region of Bolivia.
According

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
According to the local British Legation the above in-
formation was forwarded from the Buenos Aires mission, which
in turn received it by cable from the Foreign Office in
London. NABEI, Buenos Aires agent for Mitsui, was sup-
posed to have been requested, from Santiago, to book space
on the "Buenos Aires Maru" at Buenos Aires for 40 tons of
Para rubber. Previous communications between the same parties
indicated that one Proceso KUTO, who operates in Santiago
and La Paz, is the buying agent for such material and that
he has been authorized to buy Para rubber at a price up to
26 1/2 cents. He was also asked how much "Yungas" product
he could supply monthly and vwas instructed to send samples
of both items to Buenos Aires and Tokyo.
Neither the British nor this Legation has been able
thus far to learn any more details concerning the matter.
So far as can be determined, Proceso Kuto is not known in
La Paz nor has anything been heard with reference to Jap-
anese attempts to purchase rubber in Bolivia. The Legation
will continue its efforts, however, and should anything
further be learned the Department will be advised accord-
ingly.
Respectfully yours,
Douglas Jenkins
CRB/pd
861.71
Original and 3 copies by airmail.
Extra copy for Division of Connercial Affairs

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.92)
SEP 22 1941
My dear . Marrie:
34.
In a letter dated July 18, 194l Suy Thorold in-
ferned me that he had information to the effeet that
24/1577
the Japamese were making inquiries as to produots of
the Bolivian yungas regiom. A copy of his letter was
referred to our Legation in La Pas, whioh has reported
as follews:
"Acoording to the looal British Legatiom
the above information was forwarded from the
Duenos Aires missiom, whioh in turn received
18 by cable from the Foreign Offiece in Londom.
MAMmkI, Duenos Aires agent for Mitsui, was
supposed to have been requested, from Santiago,
te bock spase on the "Buenes Aires Mara" as
Duenos Aires for 40 tons of Para rubber. Pre-
vions semsunications between the same parties
indieated that one Procese KUrO, who operates
in Santiago and La Pas, 1s the baying agent
for sueh material and that he has beem auth-
orised to buy Para rubber at a priee up to
26 1/2 oents. Ne was also asked how mask
'Tuagas' prodnet he sould supply montaly and
was instrueted to send samples of both items
S
to Buenes Aires and Tokye.
3
H
Mr. A. D. Narrie,
Pirst Seeretary,
Dritich Eabesey,
Washington, D. G.

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.90)
-2
"Neither the Beitish nor this Legatiem has
beem able thas far to learn any more desaile een-
eeraing the matter. Se far as can be determined,
Prosese Kate is not knem in La Pas mer has aag-
tempts to purehase rubber in Belivia. the Lege-
siom will contimme iss efforte, however, and
should anything further be learned the Department
will be advised
accordingly."
Sineerely yours,
Thomas X. Finletter
Special Assistans
to the Seeretary
A true cL
the sigged org
nal.
EA:R:00 9-λ2-41

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.94)
September 3, 1941
RECEIVED
SEP-41941
DIVISION O1
SEP 5-1941
66.9.8415
Dear Mr. Secretary:
OF
Enclosed you will find copy of
letter which I received from John J. Flaherty, Jr.,
attorney of Jersey City, New Jersey which is self-
894.24/1578
Division of
explanatory. I would deeply appreciate your thoughps
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
so that I may in turn intelligently advise Mr. FlahortySEP 10 1941
Department of St
94.24
whether oil in this country is being sold to Japan.
With appreciation for your
courtesy, and with kind regards, believe me
Barbour.
Mbat Anceroly,
Hon. Cordell Hull
State Department
Washington, D. C.
PS/DR
WWB:HeBp
Enc.
nd
SEP1 1941
GETLA

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.86)
Atserney at
26 Journal Square
Jersey City, N. J.
March 25, 1941
Hon. Tsune-chi Yu
Chinese Consui General at Ne.. York
30 Rookefeller Plaza
New York, N. Y.
Jear r. Yu:
There cam to my .tten ion the following
information: Phat the Stanu..re Cil om any of New
Jersey. thre h th Yorx iu ri tin Ci. Jo pany's
plan at  ywey, iza en,  w rersey, ere preparine
to shi. on vae us t ru, on or a out arch 2srd or 24th
i men of 2o.,  ri  ons of enns. Ivai
Smilem. otor cil, tle me
:ipped in ,190 wooden
casks. e untaini.. l uirons r the s.iu oii. The
shi ment us  ei mie tsui ror export to Japan,
rum.i. oxohama..plosotie o of the order,
vr fne i.  h n iity. n eeiose. herein.
0
()
on cr he lir thin   out the orier
is that n r is a no i n irl i r in as follows:
"No Souon si l o:  ion of oane to & ear on
the pax. ." fr is noice  ome o my tenion
I n o ost  o. i of sn uo,ne f which I
pres ru to r. s i e of thritish on
sulave Jeneral a
oun r
the wtme
vJus il s,eeial feature
wrior of  orl
riroT ured
ov r to nre   rl i. Feelure a of Investi e-
tion in tne Feiral uildin, in Foleyre, F w ork
ity.1l or he ur     etsreade on reh 17th
tt1:00
toiniaus
 inforned neii uhatheni d aes overnment
.at th. p. e.en
 is in rt ailoes to he
Chinese  iio an ri in on the defense of
their eountry,    no b n iev it is  or an just
for uny : or
in or ro f nn o count r t this aid
ty ellin
so ry r i ple
ts o t.Jaane.e
cov.reme.
"sfll yours.
Joh . Fl urty. Jr.
JF/n

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.93)
413104
My dear Senator Barbour:
Reference is made to your letter of September 3.
194l transmitting a copy of a letter from Mr. John J.
Flaberty, Jr., of Jersey City, New Jersoy, regarding
894.24/15
the expert of oil to Japan.
On August 1, 1941 the President announoed further
regulations on the export of petroleum produots in the
intorest of national defonse. I anclose a copy of that
announeement. Since Mr. Flaherty's letter was written
7
0
before August first, you may wish to bring it to his
attention.
Sincerely yours,
Enelesure:
1
Press release.
4
houtine
The Hemerakle
W. Warren Barbour,
Umited States Semate.
PS/MM
EA
Co:1
HF.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.95)
Mniled States Benate
September 2, 1941
bete
DIVISION
SEP 5-1941
RECEIVED
Ta.9—84
SEP-4 1941
EMCE-VG
Honorable Cordell Hull
MENT
September 15, 1941
Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
I have the enclosed inquiry from Mr. H. D. Willits,
894.2471579
3923 N. E. 76th Avenue, Portland, Oregon.
I shall be glad to have you supply me with such
information as may be available covering his inquiry.
May I have the enclosure returned with your reply?
Very sincerely yours,
Chax. L. meuary
McN:KH
Encl.
Division of
P8/DR
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SEP10 1941
rened
Department of 9
SEP17194
FILEB
1579
9

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.99)
POST CARD
Senator Chas. McNary,
Portland, Oregon,
Washington, D. C.
August 26, 1941
Will you please find out for me if the U. S. is now
selling oil or other military supplies to Japan?
Sincerely and with thanks,
H. D. WILLITS
3923 N. E. 76th Ave.

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.89)
September 16, 1941
My dear Senater MoNary:
Referenee is made to your letter of September 2, l941
emelosing a commrmication fron Mr. R. D. willits of
Pertland, Oregan, coneerning the sale of oil and military
supplies to Japan.
894.
sapeexegxet  aenl The export of high-grade gase
lines and lubricating oils has been prohibited except to
24/15
the Western Hemisphere, the British Eupire, and the un-
cceupied territories of other countries engaged in
7
resisting aggression, and the export of low-grade
6
petrelom predusts, exeept to sueh destinations, has
been severely eurtailed. Similar restrietiaus have been
placed wpen the expert of all other commodities having
military sigalrieance.
Houtie
Sinserely yours,
1
OR
Deeleoure:
87
CommmSeation
ad ong
The mable
Gheslee L. Metary.
P
S
/MM
Em
PEN
9-9-41
4-

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.96)
AA
Assistant Secretary
of State
BRITISH EMBASSY
scr
JUL 11 1941
WASHINGTON D.C.
RCEIVED
xa
MR. ACHESON
July 10th 1941.
SEP - 1941
Dear Acheson:
You were kind enough yesterday to think that my suggestion that
some of your officers and ours might examine the problem of oil supplies
for Japan was worth further consideration with a view to action. My
idea was that perhaps two, or at the most three aside might be asked to
examine:
1. Estimates of Japan's stocks and requirements of oil
2. The effect on her current supplies of the withdrawal of non-
894.24
Japanese tankers
894.24/.
3. The possible implications of ships warrants and bunker control
in reducing by means of indirect pressure supplies of petroleum
products reaching Japan.
You referred to Mr. Thornburg, and by a coincidence I met him at
dinner the night after our talk. He lunched with me today to meet Mr.
Wyndham-White, who knows a good deal about policy with regard to tankers
5
I told him of our conversation.
00
I am very anxious that we should keep our administrative arrangements
closely in step with one another, and if you agree to go forward wth
ILED
the suggestion I have made, we will be happy to collaborate in any
c3
practical way.
1941
Yours sincerely,
Noailtal
P
S/MS
Mr. Dean Acheson,
Department of State,
Washington D.C.
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.98)
ECEIVED
UNITED STATES
PARTMENT OF STATE
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
OFFICE OF PETROLEUM COORDINATOR
1941 SEP 3 AM 11 27
FOR NATIONAL DEFENSE
WASHINGTON
September 12, 1941
DIVISION CF
COMMUNICATIONS
August 30, 1941.
AND RECORDS
SEP6-1941
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
9-8-41
Hon. Cordell Hull,
EMCE-KCE
SEP 10 1941
Secretary of State.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
Enclosed is copy of a letter from Senator C. Wayland Brooks,
894.24
transmitting a letter from Mr. T. A. Shaw, 323 South Franklin Street,
Chicago, Illinois, relating to an alleged Diesel oil shipment to
894.24/1581
Japan. Copy of Mr. Shaw's letter and of my reply to Senator Brooks
are also enclosed.
Since matters of export control and licensing come under the
jurisdiction of the Department of State, I am referring the matter
to you for such action as you may care to take.
Sincerely yours,
G. W. Holland,
Special Assistant.
PS/MS
Enclosure 2861526.
SEP15 1941
FILED

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.86)
UNITED STATES
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
OFFICE OF PETROLEUM COORDINATOR
FOR NATIONAL DEFENSE
WASHINGTON
Angest 30, 1961.
. Geräall Mall,
Sesretery of State.
 deas r. Sesretary:
Eeelesed is eepy ef & letter frem Seaater 6. Wagland Bresks.
tramsmitting a lester frem Mr. 7. A. Shes, 32s Sestà Bramklin Street,
cmiengs, Illimeis, relating to an alleged Béesel eil skipmsms se
Japem. Gow ef r. Shav's Letter asd of  reply te Seaster Breeks
are alse enslsssd.
Simse masters ef expert eemtrel and lieensing esme meéer the
jurisdiesten of the Department of State, I am referring the matter
to you for susk astien as you may eare te taie.
Sineerely yours,
and
Spesial Assistest.
Enslosure 20s1.536.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.98)
UNITED STATES
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
OFFICE OF PETROLEUM COORDINATOR
FOR NATIONAL DEFENSE
WASHINGTON
August 30, 1941.
Hon. C. Wayland Brooks.
United States Senate.
My dear Benator Brooks:
Secretary Ickes has asked that I acknowledge with his thanks
your letter of August 19 with which you enclosed a letter from
Mr. T. A. Shaw, 333 South Franklin Street, Chicago, Illinois,
relative to the alleged shipment of Diesel oil to the Japanese.
Barlier reply to your letter was regrettably delayed because of
the large volume of work assigned to this newly created office.
Inasmuoh as all matters of export licensing and export control
are in the hands of the State Department, I have forwarded to that
Department copies of Mr. Shaw's letter to you, your letter to
Secretary Ickes, and this reply.
I am returning herewith Mr. Shaw's letter to you.
Sincerely yours.
agd
G. W. Holland,
Special Assistant.
Bnclosure 3861427.

=== Page 70 === (confidence 1.00)
UNITED STATES SENATE
August 19, 1941.
Hon. Harold L. Ickes
Secretary of the Interior
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Secretary:
Attached you will find letter from
T. A. Shaw containing a clipping from The Chicago Tribune
of August 12 relative to the shipment of Diesel oil to the
Japanese. I submit Mr. Shaw's letter for your attention.
If you have any information which I could
transmit to him, I should appreciate receiving it.
Yours very truly,
(sgd) C. Wayland Brooks.
C. Wayland Brooks.
CWB:my
Enclosure

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
T. A. SHAW & CO.
South Franklin Street,
Chicago, Illinois.
August 14, 1941.
Honorable C. Wayland Brooks,
Senate Office Building,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sir:
The attached clipping appeared in our Chicago
Tribune August 12th.
I would like to know why the United States is
selling Japan Diesel Oil when we need all of it ourselves
to refine to make gasoline, and other oils.
Will you please look into this and see why such
actions are taken.
Very truly yours,
(sgd) T. A. Shaw
TAS:K

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.91)
September 12, 1941
My dear Benater Brooks:
Referense is mmde to your letter of August 19, 1941
addressed to the secretary of the Interior and tranemitting
854.24/
a letter from Mr. T. A. Shaw of Chieago, Illinois, regart-
ing the sale of Diesel oil to Japan.
At a press conference held in July the President
stated that the export of oll to Japan had been perxitted
in the past with a view toward preserving peace in the
Paeifie. On August 1, 1941 he announced new regulations
regarding the expert of all petreleum preduets in the
interest of national defense. I enelese a copy of that
annoumeement. Although Mr. Shaw's letter was written
after the announeenent was mde, you may wiah to bring it
to his attention.
Simeerely yours,
Cordell Hull
Enclosure:
As
Press release.
BEP 11 1941
P
N1D
The Remevable
Routine
. C. mayamnd Bresics,
4.08
Taited statee Semate.
B:J0C 9-9-41
FBA
Con

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.89)
TO FE TRANNNTIED
TELEGRAM SENT
VONFIDENTIAL OODE
NONOONFIDENTIAL CODE
""PARTAIR
Department of State
PLAIN
Day letter
Washington.
Night letter
Charge to
August 27, 1941,
Coda.
AMEBASSY,
TOKYO.
550
As Mexico'is'ourrently yithholding minerals from Japan,
Japan by'way of retallation is'no Honger supplying Mexioo
with'rayon/ on whioh Mexican'textile 'and'hosiery Andustries'
ad largely dependent, and the appropriat branohes of this
Government are taking measures to relieve/the difficulties
of these industries arising from Japanese motion. It 1s/
894.24/1581A
understood that Brazilian textile and/hoslery industries.
also (largely dependent on/Japanese/raypn,/are threatened /
by Vike 'motion by/Japanese suppliera 1r impediments are,
plaged in the way of exports'to Japan'of lessential/artioles/
by the Brasilian Government.
The Department/will be interested/in/any information
that may come Lato your/possession concerning/Japanese/
efferts to imdyee Latim Amerieam republics to supply Japan/
PS/MS
with mimerals/and/other/ defense/ materiale/by means of/trade/
reprisals laimilar/to the foregoing.
Hull
Ait
(aF)
a4
PA/H
HF
205
a9r

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ADVISER ON
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
August 27, 1941
The Department has been informed
by a telegram from the Embassy in Mexico
that Japan cancelled export licenses for
Bilk and rayon destined for a Mexican
port becauee the Mexican Government 1s
refusing to allow the exportation of
strategic minerals to Japan.
An effort is being made to secure
a rayon supply for Mexico from the
United States. The Embassy in Colombia
has reported that Japan has refused to
sell silk to Colombia unless Colombia
agrees to sell platinum to Japan.
EA:FALinville:DH

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo
TELEGRAM RECEIVEDS
forE bring communicated
aryons(br)
REc'd 10 a.m., 5th
Secretary of StatE
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
UASEP 10 1941
OFFICE GF THE ACVK EX IN
HORNBECK
TIO 
Department of Start
SEP25 1941
HF6EP 6 1941
1402, SEptEmbEr 6, 1 a.m.
DEPARTMENI
Department's 550, August 29 9 p.m.
ThE rEprEsEntatives of thE larger Latin-American
countries with thE ExcEption of thosE of ChilE and Brazil
whom it has not thus far been possiblE to approach in thE
matter arE not awarE of any reprisals or threats of rE-
prisals being made by Japan for thε withholding of primary
materials in other than thE cases mentioned in thE tElegram
under referencE. ThE Mexican ChargE d'Affaires has con-
firmed to us thE fact that no morE ray on is being shipped
to MExico although JapanEsE Exports of small quantitiEs of
miscellaneous goods is still continuing. OnE casE of thE
stoppagE of shipment of a cargo of silk thrEad to Colombia
sEveral wEEks ago has also bEEn rEportEd but thE Colombian
Minister would offer no Explanation of this sction.
The EmbassyIs informants givE thE impression that they
arE not unduly pErturbed at thε prospEct of Japanos cuttin &
off tradE with their countries. They statE that although
Japan is still continuing to sEnd ships to thE WE cahst
of South America their numbers havE bEen considerably cur-
tailed during the last two months and they Explain that this
lack of

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.96)
Saptember 6, 1 a.mea from Tokyo
lhck or shipping together with Amerioan purchasE of raw
materials and the Latin-American countries own restriotiont
on Exports outsidE of thE American Continent havE already
greatly decreased tradE with Japan which in any event was
never very largE. In thE casE of Peru in particular the
stoppagE of thE Exports of JapanEsE tExtiles is rather
welcomE as thosE Exports had previously seriously competed
with Peruvian textilE industries.
ThE Embassy will rEport further in this matter when
information from thε ChilEan and Brazilian rEprEsentatives
herE is rEcEivEd.
GREW
HPD

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAMRECEIVEI
FROM REO'A.1OE
DIVISION OF
EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
Division of
Searetary of State,
FAR EXSTERN REFAIRS
SEP16 1941
SEP6 1941
Washington.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Department of
1400, September 5, 11 p.m.
Commercial Attache's colleaguE at the Nether-
land's Legetion reported following statements made
by official of the commercial section of thE Foreign
Office. ShortagE of crudE rubber in Japan becoming
894.24/1583
increasingly more acutE sincE hopes for adiquate
4.24
supplies from Indochine, Thailand unrealized there
89
forE would bE vital look to Netherlands East Indies
for further supplies. Official declared rubber
voi
stocks in the United States now over 800,000 tons
which amount, hE pointed out, should bE conform-
7562.94
ably adequatE for America's war Efforts. Dutch
colleaguE reported saying in responsE that the
position of his Government remains unchanged and
S/MS
that no raw materials which might eventually be
used against the Netherlands and her allies includ-
ing Soviet Russia can bE allowed Exportation to
SEP18
FILED
Japan from thE Indies. Dutch colleaguE further rt-
ported that four JapanEsE tankers which have been
in Netherland

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.89)
eptember 5, li p.m. from Tokyo
in Netherland Indian waters sincE the freesing
opdur was nforcrd art still waiting for oil
Gargots.
GREW
RR

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.91)
TELEGRAM SENT
PARTA
PLAIN
Department of State
(0)
Deg letter
Washingion.
Night letter
Charge to
September/g, 1941
AMBAGN EMBASSY,
TOKYO.
585
894.24
1583
Your/1400, September 5 11 p.m,
Total United states stocks  rubber as of July 31,
1941 amounted to 395,e16 tons. of th1s amount industry
held 176,372 tona, Rubber Reserve 128,670, while deliverie
under the ootton/rubber barter agreement with the United
334.
dom mounted to 90,174/tons, Owing to the inetitution
of/prioyitipa/which  greatly/curtalled/delivery of
2
4
rubber to manufacturers/in this country, rubber/stocke
1
583
For example there an increase of over 56, g0o tons
during July and 1s probable that the monthly rate of inorease
1 eurrently An the heighboghood/of 50,000/tong It should
P
S
be apparent howover that even at this rate the acoumalation
/BH
of 00.00 t would roquire about eight more monthsand
even this)oredieated upon paintenange of the ourrent sub-
United States
caphored by
M
..T  

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.90)
4
TO DE TRAMNITE
OONFIDENTIAL CODE
INDIDATE WHETHER
TELEGRAM SENT
NONOONFIDENTIAL OODE
rate
PARTAIR
y letter
PLAIN
Might letter
Department of State
ge Department:
Full rate
Day letter
Washington.
Might letter
-2
Charge to
T
$
stooppile/goal 1s/by no means achieved and reduetion
of supplies/from the/ourrent level/would seriously/
hamper/both/defense/production and stoop1ld acoumula-
tion Our owm/neede provide/the strongest possible
justification for the present buying program.
The/Commercial Attaché may/disouss the above with
his Dutoh colleague but, of course, the figures should
ttass
(HF)
SEP 11 1941
PAN
FE
m.n.N
EA:MT:NCE
Ensphorald lo
SBant by aperaber.
M..
.. T  

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.78)
 clthme.
2 toe ae worth 1,250,000
tonn wny be woithis,00,00.
 mento me 50oo flack
part y. 2 tome?
En: LOPG
Obiuly thes tetegram i garbled
a flask of mercury is volued at
about B180-0200 ker Hask.
and a flaste thegls 96 paunks.
Jg

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.96)
SEP241911
Division of
TELEGRAM RED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE FAR EASTERN AFFAI
SEP1019
FROM
TRB
Madra
This tElEgram must hE
closely paraphrassh DE
DatEd SEptEmbE 6, 1941
forE bEing communicated
to anyonE. (A)
REc'd 4:16 p.m.
SEP9 194
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
DEISION OF
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFTA
SEP S 1941
Washington.
DEFARTMENT OF STATE
801, SEptEmbEr 6, 11 a.m.
894.24/|584
SS MAR CANTABHI0 1Eft Cadiz July 25 for BuEnos
AirEs carrying 12o tons of mErcury consigned to Mitsui
and Conpany, Tokyo. ThE British Consul in Madrid 1te
in August isgued a cErtificatE of origin covEring 5,000
hundred?
flasks (two tons) of mErcury valuEd at $1,250,000 for
Mitsui via Buenos Aires. Our Consul at SEvillE rEports
19,057 kilograms of mEroury wErE dElivered on August ;28
to thE Cadiz customs (assumEd to bE part of thE abovE
2
hundred
OCT 1 1941
mEntionEd 2 tons).
FILED
WEDDELL
ALC
OCT1 194
FIL.
PS
/MM

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.98)
ARTMENT OFSTATE
VISJON OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 30, 1941.
Sontigo
roronce attached telegram from
ard to diesel oil taken on by Japanese
This matter is being handled primarily
Mr. Aoheson's office. It appears there
a despatoh from Lima on this question,
riginal of whioh has not yet come to us, but
t whioh copy is attached, indicating that
gulations governing the bunkering of Japanese
vossels in Peru are to be strengthened. It
will be noted that the Embassy at Lima expres-
Bes the belief that the term "next fueling
point" means the next ordinary point of call
on the usual itinerary of the vessel applying
for fuel and will not enable a vessel which,
för instanoe, has been calling at Manzanillo
or some other port in the Americas to obtain
a supply of fuel oil sufficient to carry it to
Japan direot even though such intermediate
port of call may have been recently eliminated
from its itinerary in favor of a direot cross-
ing of the Pacific from Peru to Japan.
A-A and RA are of the opinion that the
1500 tons mentioned in the reference telegram
aro primarily for bunkering purposes, that
mome may be cargo; but that the new regula-
ions will be adequate protection against
the

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
the Japanese obtaining oil for other than
bunkering purposes in Peru. In the circum-
stances no action would appear to be required.
FE:SoLuLer:MJK

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.97)
EP81941
THE AMERIOAN REPUBL
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FRoSantiago
This tElEgram must bE
Dated SEptEmber 6, 19e1
olosely paraphrasEd bE-
forE being communicated
Recla 2:24 p.m.
to anyonE. (br)
Di-ision of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SEcretary of StatE
1941
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
INTERNAHGNAL EDFFAIR
Washington.
epartment of.State
SEP241941
DEPAITENT OF STATE
426, SEptEmbEr 6, 11 a.m.
894.24/1585
It is rEported that PEruvian GovErnment has ar-
rangEd salE of 2000 tons of DiEșEl o1l to JapanEsE
ships KUNIKAWA and NORFOLK MARU. Latter will rEcEivE
1500 tons apparently as cargo. SalE arrangEd through
(?) to bE dElivErEd at Los CErritos whErE thE oil fiEld
is ownEd by thE govErnment.
894.24
BOWERS.
NPL
Assistant Sooretary
JJR.of State
SEP 2 2 1941
MR. ACHESON
OCT-11941
FILED
PS/MM

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.88)
ALUSIA
7:FPI 41
RKC
OPNAV
sen
REPORT KUN
MARY
CERNI
in
eA
F STE
DIVISION OF
Fimished - MAGUIRE - Fil
SEP 9 1941
1
4
THE AMERICAN REQU
16
DEPARTMENT OF ITE
RESTRICTED
crotary
ui State
E
DEA
SEP 2 2 1941
S
MR. ACHESON
つ

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.94)
TDY CONFIDENTIAL
PARAPHRASE
September 8, 1941
PAN
FE
The following message was received from the Naval Attache
PAIH
Lima Peru September 7, 1941:
INFORMATION RECEIVED THAT NO OIL ILL BE GIVEN JAP SHIPS BY
PERU GOVERNMENT WITHOUT APPROVAL OF MINISTRY OF WAR WHO WILL
HAVE CAPTAIN OF THE PORT INSPECT SHIP FIRST TO SEE IF OIL IS
ACTUALLY NEEDED. ONLY SUFFICIENT OIL WILL BE GIVEN TO TAKE SHIP
TO NEXT FUELING PORT AFTER INSPECTION AND NO FUEL WILL BE GIVEN IF
INSPECTION IS NOT PERMITTED.
copy
DIVISION OF
IN
Assision. Socrotary
SEP 9
1941
EA
of State
THE AMERICAN RERUBICA
DEPARTMENT OF STME
SEP 2 2 1941
MR. ACHESON
Di-ision of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SP21941
Department of State
Reproduction of this material in any form is not
authorized except by sneific agroval of the
Secretary of the Mavy.
  A
8 1941
U - AI ICE
SEP

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
OF S
BITISH EMBASSY,
REOEIVED
WASHINGTON, D. C.
SEP 5 1941
By Safe Hand
DIVISION Orugust 21st, 1941
OFPICE 
894.241
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
My dear Finletter
Thank you for your leter of August
19th regarding shipments of Manganese to Japan.
894.24/1586
The position, in what you may term
the pre-crisis period, was that exports of Manganese to
Japan from India were restricted to 10,000 tons a month,
which was approximately 80% of normal trade, and from
Malaya to 1,700 tons a month, being about 60% of normal
trade. The first stage in further restrictions was to
reduce these quotas by 50%, and this no doubt accounts
for the figure of 5,000 tons per month which you quote
in your letter as having been the figure for exports
from India.
Now, however, a further step has
been taken under which no Export Licenses will be granted
for any commodities from the Empire to Japan except in
special cases where funds have become available as a re-
sult of permitted imports from Japan of commodities of
particular value for war purposes. Even so, licenses
will only be granted for goods of least essential value
to Japan. As a result of this we understand that no
licenses for Manganese are now being granted for ship-
ments to Japan, and if, in fact, 1,000 tons has been
exported, as quoted in your letter, I think it may be
taken that this had been in respect of a contract already
SEP 5 1941
made and paid for before the freezing regulations were
brought in.
As far as Malaya is concerned, there
are some added difficulties, in view of the fact that the
PS/MM
mines
Mr. T. K. Finletter,
Special Assistant to the Secretary,
United States Department of State,
Washington, D.C.
GFT:MS

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.97)
Mr. T. K. Finletter
-2-
August 21st, 1941
mines are Japanese-owned and the position is somewhat the
same as in the case of exports of iron ore from the Phil-
ippines. It is the intention to reduce these Manganese
exports from Malaya as far as possible, but we have not
yet received information as to the exact position at the
moment.
I hope to be able to give you more precise
details in both these cases before long but, in the mean-
time, you may take it little or no Manganese is at present
being exported from India to Japan.
throw
Yours sincerely,

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.86)
y 29.
ogly refer to
7.C.
a
Dear Will:
I have your letter of July 17 concerning the ship-
J
ment of mica from India tolJapen. I agree that this is
serious and will take it up with the British Mabassy
8942
immediately.
Sinoerely yours,
Thomes L. Pimleeser
Special Asckstent
to the Sesretary
1586
Ms. will Clayton,

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.95)
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR FASTERN AFFAIRS
112
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 31, 1941
Department of State
DCR
QIL SHIPMENTS TO JAPAN
REOEIVED
A SURVEY OF THIS GOVERNMENT'S POLICY
AUG 2 8 1941
OIVISION 
In recent years, the question of what course of
ments of oil from the United States to Japen has been a
complex issue compounded of many elements. This Depart-
894.24/1587
ment in determining the course of action which it would
follow has taken into account the developing international
situations in the Far East and in Europe, the advice of
our military and naval authorities, the state of publio
opinion in this country and considerations of an economio
nature. In what follows an attempt has been made to trace
the main developments and factors whioh have contributed
711.
to the forming of the policy adopted by this Department.
1587
The decisions which this Department has taken upon
the couree of action to be followed with regard to ship-
ments of oil from the United States to Japan have
Relation be-
necessarily been related to this Goverm-
Sxeam pollox
In ragard to
ment's general policy tovard develop-
AUG
al ahipmants
thnax
ments in the Far East and these decisioms
9 1941
Lastern poliex
must therefore be viewed against the
background

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
background of the Far Eastern situation as a whole. In a
brief space. only some of the significant features of that
situation as it developed may be mentioned.
The current phase of the Far Eastern situation began,
from many points of view, with Japan's military occupation
of Manchuria in 1931. There followed in 1933 the Japanese
occupation of Jehol. In April 1934 the so-called "Amau
statement" was issued which made clear that Japan asserted
with respect to China a special and exclusive relation. In
December 1934 Japan gave notice of a desire to terminate the
Washington Naval Treaty thus indicating an intention to resume
competitive naval construction in the Pacific. In 1935 the
Steps in
"autonomy movement" south of the Great Wall
Japan s ex-
pansionist
in China was developed with evident Japanese
policy,
1931-1937
participation. In 1936 Germany and Japan con-
oluded the anti-Comintern pact to which Italy became a party
in 1937. In July 1937 the current hostilities between China
and Japan commenced.
This Government was the first of the great powers to
beaome alive to the full implications of Japan's course of
This Govern-
action not only for the peoples of the
ment's attitude
with regard to
Pacifio but also for the continued existence
Japan's program,
1931-1937
of order among nations based upon law. In
publio statements this Government clearly indicated the results
which

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
which might be expected to follow from a substitution of
force for law as the basis of international relationships
and it set forth the principles which it regarded as essen-
tial to normal and mutually satisfactory relations among
nations. This Government also made evident its disapproba-
tion of the course of action being followed by Japan and
declined to recognize the regime which was set up in Manchuria
under Japanese auspices. At the same time a willingness was
expressed to assist in working out a solution of existing
problems in the Pacific by peaceful processes. This Govern-
ment's attitude was clearly shown, for example, in the
messages exchanged between the Japanese Minister for Foreign
Affairs, Mr. Hirota, and the Secretary on February 21 and
March 3, 1934; in the statement to the Japanese Government
of April 29, 1934 with regard to the so-called "Amau state-
ment" referred to above; and in the statement by the Secre-
tary on December 6, 1935, in connection with the "autonomy
movement" in north China.
With the commencement of the current hostilities in
China in 1937, this Government continued its efforts to
Commencement
persuade Japan that its best interests
of hostilities
1n 1937
would be served by the adoption of policies
in line with those principles which this country believed to
be essential for the building of an equitable and lasting
foundation

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
foundation for relations between nations. The possibility
Efforts to
was kept in view that those elements in
persuade
Japan which favored a peaceable policy
Japan to
adopt peace-
ful policies
might, while there was yet time, lead
Japan to turn away of its own accord from policies of con-
quest. This Government also sought to keep clearly before
all nations those principles which this Government believed
should govern international relationships.
On July 12, 1937, the Secretary expressed to the repre-
sentatives of Japan and China the view that an armed conflict
between the two nations would be a great
U.S. offers
of good offices
blow to the cause of peace and world prog-
ress. This Government subsequently offered its good offices
toward an effort to find some means acceptable to Japan and
to China of composing their difficulties by pacific methods.
On July 16, 1937, the Secretary made a comprehensive statement
of this Government's position in regard to international
problems and situations with respect to
Secretary's
statement of
which this country felt deep concern. In
principles of
July 16, 1937
this statement reference was made to the
principles of respect for the rights of other nations, of
support for the processes of peaceful negotiation and agree-
ment, of faithful observance of international treaties with
modification thereof when needful by orderly processes, of
effeotive

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
effective equality of commercial opportunity and treatment,
and of the promotion of economic security and stability the
world over. On August 23, 1937 the Secretary expressly
indicated that in the opinion of the United States these
principles were applicable to the situation in the Far East.
In determining what action could and should be taken by
this Government with regard to the hostilities in China, this
Department had to take account of the lessened concern appar-
Lessened concern
ently felt with regard to the situation
Felt by other
countries in
in the Far East by other powers inter-
potentialities
of situation
ested in the Pacific. This Government
took advantage so far as possible of every opportunity to
emphasize that this movement of conquest which was beginning
in the Far East might spread and destroy the foundations of
peaceful relations in other parts of the world.
The immediate reaction of the American people to the
commencement of hostilities in China in l937 was a feeling
of deep sympathy for China. At the same time the American
public expressed with almost vehement intensity a desire
Strong desire of
that the United States should avoid
American people
to avoid involve-
involvement in the conflict. A sub-
ment in conflict
stantial section of American opinion
advocated the immediate withdrawal of American nationals,
including American armed forces, from China. In as much as
such

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
such a policy would have been undesirable for a number of
reasons, and moreover as it was not evident whether advocacy
of such a policy represented a fundamental desire on the
General policy
part of the people of this country
followed by this
Government
or was merely a temporary reaction,
this Government followed a middle course of action. It
sought to protect this country's nationals and rights, to
assist China in feasible ways, to hinder so far as practi-
cable the progress of Japan's program and at the same time
to avoid acts or measures which would be likely to involve
this country in the hostilities or to impel Japan to take
further aggressive measures.
Despite criticism from many quarters, this Government
refrained from applying the Neutrality Act in the hostilities
between China and Japan because of the conviction that
an application of that Act would adversely affect China's
position. This Government consistently declined to
give its assent to situations brought about by Japanese
authorities or agents in China in violation of treaties
and international law and through the unwarranted use
of force. By a reasoned approach and through diplomatic
means this Government sought with patience and persistence
to protect American rights and interests in the Far East,
and to

=== Page 97 === (confidence 1.00)
-7-
and to obtain redress from the Japanese authorities for
Discourage-
loss of life, injuries or property
mont of Japan's
program and
damage suffered by American nationals.
assistance to
China
Following a statement by the Secretary
at a press conference in June 1938, "moral embargoes" were
applied which resulted in a suspension of the export of
airplanes to Japan and to other countries the armed forces
of which were engaged in the indiscriminate bombing of
civilian populations. In June. 1938 this Government infor-
mally discouraged the extension of credit to Japan by
American nationals. At the same time this Government
followed a policy of encouraging and assisting China so
far as practicable.
At first there was no general interest in this country
in the question of oil shipments to Japan. T he belief was
apparently widely accepted that the hostilities would be
Slow development
brief. After the fighting spread
of general inter-
est in oil
to Shanghai and then southward and
shipments
westward it began to become evident
to the people of this country that the conflict might be
of long duration. As this belief came to be more generally
shared

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
shared and as admiration for China's determination to resist
increased, some interest in the question of oil shipments to
Japan began to develop.
In general during this early period the cutting off of
oil shipments to Japan came to be advocated for one or
another of three reasons. First, this step was favored as
a punitive measure against Japan. Some persons believed
Some peraons
that war, declared or undeclared, was
faver oil
embargo
from the point of view of international
society unmoral except when waged in self-defense and that
a responsibility existed on the part of all other nations to
1. as puni-
punish international lawbreakers.
tive meaaure
Other persons believed that, even apart
from the wider interests of international society as a
whole Japan's acts in and against China were of such a
character as to deserve punitive action by other nations.
Second, this step was favored in the belief that it would
2. to cause
result in the military collapse of
Japanese mili-
tary collapse
Japan in the campaign in China. Third,
this step was favored because of a conviction that the
3. because
trade in a commodity which was the
trade in o1l
considered as
means of bringing death or suffering to
unmoral
a people fighting in self-defense was
morally wrong and should not be tolerated by this Government.
Other persons held, however, that under the conditions of
modern

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.98)
-9-
odern warfare, a nation's entire economic, political
and social life was direoted to the prosecution of war and
no moral distinotion could be drawn between trade in
petroleum products and trade in any other commodity with
a country engaged in hostilities. Those who advocated
the cutting off of oil shipments to Japan also in general
favored non-involvement by this country in the hostili-
ties in the Far East.
By far the larger group of opinion in this country,
however, during the period in question was opposed to the
Majority
cutting off of oil shipments to Japan
opinion
by this Government. This opposition
opposes
oil embargo
was in part due to the connection which
many persons felt between such an embargo and the sanc-
tions which formed a part of the system of the League of
1. because of
Nations. Aversion to any move by
distaste left
by League
this country in the direction of col-
sanctione
leotive security was strong in this
country. Aversion to sanctions in particular was in
general wide-spread. It was remarked that the sanctions
applied by the League of Nations against Italy had not
served to stop Italy's program of conquest in Ethiopia
but had served to oreate a large measure of international
11l-will

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
1ll-will to no purpose.
Strong opposition to an oil embargo was also ex-
pressed on the ground that such a measure would be con-
trary to the established commercial policies of this
Government and to the generally accepted principles of
2. because embargo
international law. This country,
yould be contrary
to our established
it was said, throughout its
policies and
international lay.
history had been the champion
of the principles of freedom of international commerce
and of non-discrimination in trade. So long as the
United States possessed an ample supply of oil and so
long as the United States was at peace with Japan it
was held that the cutting-off of oil shipments in the
absence of any treaty or agreement envisaging such an
embargo would give Japan cause for legitimate complaint
and retaliation. Retaliation would lead to counter re-
taliation and to inflamed popular feeling with the end
impossible to foresee. It was pointed out that not only
did no treaty or agreement authorize our taking such mea-
sures against Japan but our treaty with Japan concluded
in l9ll expressly precluded the imposition of such an em-
3. because ambargo
bargo upon trade with Japan, and
yould lead to
economic warfare
no justification in general was
perceived

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
pereeived for the giving of notice to Japan for a termina-
tion of the treaty at the period in question.
The Department necessarily took account of the pre-
dominantly adverse state of public opinion in this country
upon the question of the imposition of an oil embargo
against Japan. It was recognized that while a demooratio
government may lead public opinion, it must not move too
far ahead or too rapidly.
The Department in determining what policy to follow
with regard to the oil shipments in question was also in-
fluenced by other considerations. An oil embargo, to be
effeotive and to be fair to the American nationals affected,
necessitates the cooperation of other principal oil pro-
ducing countries. If the United States were to apply an
Neceasity for -
oil embargo against Japan while
operation from
other pil producing
other sources of oil in other parts
countries
of the world remained open to Japan
the consequence would be merely a transfer of trade from
American firms to British, Netherland, or South American
firms and the creation of ill-will between the United
States and Japan. Once such trade was transferred from
American channels into other commercial channels, it
would be problematical whether American firms would be
able

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
able to recover the trade at a later period.
When the question of a possible oil embargo against
Japan came up for disoussion between the United States and
Great Britain, the Netherlands and other principal oil
Qther countries
producing countries, the attitude
aoncerned villing
to cooperate if
of those countries was made quite
given military
guarantee by
clear. They expressed a willingness
United States
-- though not an eagerness -- to
apply embargoes upon the shipment of oil to Japan on con-
dition that the United States would offer a guarantee of
military assistance in the event that Japan as a consequence
of such embargoes should attack the Far Eastern possessions
of Great Britain or France or should attempt to seize the
American opinion
Netherlands East Indies. At this
opposed to mili-
tary guarantee
time public opinion in this country
would not, it is believed, have supported the giving of such
a guarantee on the part of this Government. Moreover, it
was apparent that as a consequence of the deepening pre-
Preocoupation of
occupation of Great Britain, France
other countries
concerned with
and the Netherlands with the race
European situa-
tion
toward war in Europe, the brunt of
any action to be taken in the Pacifio would have fallen from
the military point of view almost exolusively upon the
United

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.98)
-13
United States. For these reasons this Government was not
in position to give the guarantee which was required.
As the war clouds in Europe gathered, the Secretary
was the first among the high advisers in this Government
to become aware of the immensity of the conflict which was
ia
approaohing and of the significance which such a conflict
The Secretary
inescapably would hold for the future
urgea adequate
rearmament by
of the United States. While still
this country
hoping that means to avert the horror
and waste of another world war might be found the Secretary,
through his speeches and writings, sought to prepare the
people of this country for possible events to come. At
the same time he used his influence to urge the adoption
of an adequate rearmament program for this country.
Meantime, as the hostilities in China continued and
as American nationals and properties in China were bombed
and damaged or destroyed with resultant loss of life by,
or injury to, American nationals, interest increased in
measures of economic pressure which might be taken
against Japan, inoluding an oil embargo. In July 1939
as a consequence of a number of factors, this Government
gave notice of an intention to terminate the l9ll treaty
Notioa of ter-
of commeroe and navigation between
mination of 1911
treaty
the United States and Japan. This
treaty

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.99)
-14
treaty terminated six months later in accordance with its
provisions. One result of this step was a clearing of the
path for the imposition of an embargo by this country
upon oil shipments, should such a measure subsequently
appear to be desirable.
In September, 1939, the war in Europe, long
Qutbreak of
threatening, broke out.
war in Europe
With the commencement of the war in Europe the
question of oil shipments to Japan became only one feature
in an immense strategic pioture. The protection of this
continent and this hemisphere against the menace to
Protection of
security created by the war in
thig continent
becomes para-
Europe, the production of ever-
mount strategic
consideration
increasing supplies of war materials,
and the finding of means for assuring that ample supplies
would reach Great Britain became matters of paramount
importance from the strategic point of view. Time was
needed and had to be gained.
During this period our highest military and naval
authorities said that this Government was not prepared for
SECRET
Qur military
the risk of war simultaneously in the
staff advises
against riska
Atlantic and in the Pacific, and that
in the Far
East
as a consequence this Government
should take no action which would be likely to preolipitate
trouble in the Far East. This Department in formulating
1ts

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
its policy felt that it should give due consideration to
the advice of the military and naval staff.
At the same time the Secretary and other officers
of this Department were foremost among high Government
advisers not only in urging the necessity of adopting
Department urges
and hastening a rearmament program
strengthening of
for this country of unprecedented
American, British
and Netherland
dimensions, but also in urging the
defenses in
Pacific
necessity of building up the de-
fenses of the United States in the Pacific and of strength-
ening the British and Netherland defenses there. A far-
reaching rearmament program has been adopted. This Gov-
ernment through its enoouragement and by making available
the necessary materials thenceforth assisted the British
and Netherland Governments in building up their Pacific
defenses.
This Government's policy toward the Far East since
the outbreak of war in Europe has accordingly been directed
mainly (1) to keeping the situation in the Pacific as stable
as possible so as to gain time for this Government to make
Nature of
military preparations necessitated
thia Govern-
by the outbreak of the war in Europe;
ment's polioy
(2) to taking measures likely to impede the progress of
Japan's program without giving Japan cause to take fresh
aggressive

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
ggressive action and without risking involvement in the
Far Eastern conflict by this country; (3) to strengthening
our strategic position in the Pacific and to encouraging
Great Britain, the Netherlands and Australia to do like-
Wise; and (4) to extending assistance to China.
The direction given to this Government's general
policy toward the Far East influenced directly the Depart-
ment's decisions in the matter of oil shipments to Japan.
The question at issue was not whether a cutting off of
such shipments would lead Japan to make a direct attack
upon the United States (including the Philippines).
Place of oil
Rather the question at issue was
shipments in
relation to
whether under conditions then ex-
situation in
the Far East
isting a cutting-off of oil ship-
ments might not result in the use of duress against or
open military attack upon British or Netherland posses-
sions in the Far East by Japan. It was felt that such a
result would be harmful to the cause in which this Govern-
ment and people believe and which we were seeking to
further by all feasible means, would serve seriously to
interfere with shipments of supplies to this country of
materials for the building up of this country's rearmament
program, might place Japan in position to interrupt or
seriously

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
-17
riously curtail shipments destined to China through
Rangoon over the Burma Road, might thus interfere with
this Government's program of extending aid to China, and
might lead within a comparatively brief period to war be-
tween the United States and Japan.
Developments in the war in Europe served to bring the
question of the situation of the Netherlands East Indies in-
oreasingly to the fore. This Government had always kept in
view the possibility that if Japan were to be denied access
to American sources of oil Japan might feel forced to at-
tempt to seize, at whatever cost, other sources of supplies,
Other factors
especially the Netherlands East Indies,
yeigning against
oil embargo after
rather than face what Japan would be
outbreak of
European war
likely to consider as frustration in
its national policy at the hands of the United States. In
April 1940 the Japanese Government issued a statement ex-
pressing its desire that conditions of disturbance should
not spread to the region of the Pacific with special
1. situation
reference to the Netherlands East
of Netherlands
East Indies
Indies. In a statement on April 17,
1940, this Government clearly expressed the view that any
intervention in the domestic affairs of the Netherlands
East Indies or any alteration of their existing status
could not but be prejudicial to the security and peace of
the

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
18-
the entire Pacific area. In the following month the Germans
invaded and occupied the Netherlands, rendering the position
of the Netherlands East Indies with its rich oil reserves
precarious. In June came the collapse of France. By fol-
lowing a firm but non-inflammatory policy, and by with-
holding the imposition of an oil embargo against Japan,
this Government avoided playing into the hands of those
groups in Japan who were urging that Japan seize its
"golden opportunity" and become the heirs of the Netherland
Empire. The crisis of the summer of 1940 was thus passed
successfully. Had Japan moved against the Netherlands East
Indies in May or June of 1940 public opinion in this
country would not, it is believed, have generally favored
the taking of military action by this Government to protect
the islands, and the status of our military preparations
would probably have rendered such action inadvisable. At
that time also the Netherlands Indies' defenses were so
weak as to make it improbable that the islands (alone)
would have been able to offer effective resistance.
In September 1940 the Japanese Government sent an
economic delegation to the Netherlands East Indies which
had indicated a willingness to continue the "open door"
polioy in trade matters in so far as that policy did not
conflict with the prostoution of the war in Europe. The
Japanese

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.97)
-19-
Iatherlanda
Japanese delegation sought to obtain
aangonasiona
a guarantee from the Netherlands
Indies Government for the delivery of greatly inoreased
quantities of oil. While the Netherlands Indies Government
deolined to give suoh a guarantee, contracts were condluded
in November 1940 by the Japanese with the o1l companies in
the Netherlands Indies which provided for a substantial in-
crease in the quantities of oil to be received by Japan
but whioh fell far short of meeting Japanese requests
either as to quantity or quality. With regard to crude
oil, the contracts covered the full period of one year
from November 1, 1940. With regard to gasoline and
kerosene, however, the contracts covered only a six
month's period. In January 194l, the Japanese delegation
asked for extensive special privileges on the part of
Japan in the Netherlands Indies in regard to immigration,
fishing, exploitation of mineral resources, et cetera.
On April 30, 1941, the six months provisions of the Novem-
ber contracts were contimed by agreement for an additional
six months. Disoussions relating to Japan's requests for
special privileges continued until June 194l when, following
receipt of a Netherland reply which was regarded as un-
satisfactory by Japan, the Japanese delegation withdrew.
It is evident that strong reasons existed against the
plaoing

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.99)
-20-
taping of an embargo upon oil shipments from the United
States to Japan during the period of such discussions which
either bore directly upon the question of Japan's oil sup-
plies or were intimately related thereto.
One other factor may be mentioned whioh entered into
the situation with regard to oil shipments to Japan. In
the spring of 194l, the Japanese Ambassador and certain
SECRET
Japanese associates came forward with a proposal looking
toward cessation of hostilities between China and Japan
upon a basis which was described as being liberal to China
and the concluding of an agreement between Japan and the
3. proposal of
United States for the ensuring of peace
the Japanese
Ambassador re-
in the Pacific area. The Secretary felt
lating to
Pacific area
that he would be negligent in his duty
if such a proposal were not fully explored. The President
approved. The placing of an embargo upon oil shipments to
Japan during the period while this proposal was under in-
formal disoussion would evidently have been prejudicial to
an adequate consideration of the subject. The course of
action recently adopted by Japan with reference to French
Indochina of course destroyed any basis for the reaching
of an agreement of the nature proposed.
Although for strategic and other reasons the imposi-
tion of a complete embargo upon oil shipments to Japan has
appeared

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.98)
-21-
ared to be inexpedient, certain measures were taken in
the interests of national defense which affected oil ship-
Heasures our-
ments to Japan. Under the Act to ex-
tailing o1l
axporta or aub-
pedite the strengthening of the national
16oting them to
defense" of July 2, 1940 the export of
licensing
aviation gasoline and tetraethyl lead was made subject to
the export licensing system effective August 1, 1940, and
it was announced that in the interests of national defense
the export of aviation gasoline was being limited to nations
of the Western Hemisphere.* The regulations which became
effective in February 194l relating to the export of metal
containers operated to place obstacles in the way of the
export of oil to Japan. On June 14, 1941 the Maritime
Commission announced that, with the solitary exception of
one ship under foreign registry which was then completing
its voyage, no American-owned or American-controlled
tankers were engaged in trade to Japan or had been so
engaged for the past six months. Although the Japanese
are believed to be able to make up in large part for the
loss of American tankers through the use of Japanese
naval
* In December 1939 a "moral embargo" had been placed upon
the delivery to certain countries, including Japan, of
technical information required for the production of high-
quality aviation gasoline. By a proclamation of September
12, l940 the export of equipment or plans required for the
production of high-quality aviation gasoline was subjeoted
to the licensing system. By a proolamation of December 20,
1940,

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
-22-
tankers and whalers, the cost and the difficulty of
obtaining petroleum products have undoubtedly been in-
creased. On June 20, 194l announcement was made that to
meet a threatened shortage of petroleum products in the
eastern United States all petroleum products had been
placed under export licensing control and exports from
the eastern seaboard would be permitted only to the
British Empire, Egypt and the Western Hemisphere. The
threatened shortage of oil in the eastern United States
resulted, it was understood, not from a deficienoy of
petroleum supplies in this country but from a lack of
pipe lines and tankers to carry the oil to the eastern
ooast.
The two years of time which this Government has thus
far gained in the Far East through a policy of standing
firm but avoiding great risks has been put to good use by
this Government. With respeot to the Far East, this Depart-
ment has urged consistently that measures be taken to
strengthen our strategic position in the Pacific such as,
for example, the sending of naval patrol bombing planes
to Manila. The defenses of the Philippines, Guam and
Samoa
* (Cont'a) 1940, the licensing system was extended to
include equipment and plans for the production of
aviation lubricating oil.

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.96)
-23-
oning of
Samoa have been 1mproved. Certain
oatea
mratario posi-
categories of American nationals were
tion in the Ear
advised to withdraw from certain areas
of the Far East, including Japan, and restrictions were
placed upon the issuance of passports for travel to the Far
East. During these two years also this country's general
rearmament program and naval expansion program have been
pushed forward rapidly. This Government has encouraged
the British Government to strengthen the defenses of Singa-
pore and other British possessions in the Far East. This
Government has made available to the Netherlands East
Indies arms and materials for the strengthening of the
defensive position of those islands so that they might be
capable of offering effective resistance in case of attack.
This Government has assisted and encouraged the Chinese
Government by extending material, financial, technical and
moral aid. As a consequence of these and similar measures
the position of the United States and of other countries
from which this Government could expect to receive co-
operation in the event of war in the Far East has grown
stronger month by month.
Japan's strategic position, on the other hand, has
been adversely affected by the involvement of the Soviet
Effecte of
Union in the hostilities in Europe
Gorman attack
upon the Soviet
as a consequence of Germany's attack
Union
upon that country in June 194l. The
continental

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.97)
-24
timental link which had served as a means of com-
qunieation and of exchange of goods between Japan and
1. Japan's
Germany has thus been broken. With
strategio
position
the Soviet Union an ally of Great
Yeakened
Britain, Japan now faces the prospect
that if Japanese acts in the Far East were to precipitate
hostilities there, Japan would be open to attack from
all sides. Siberian air and naval bases are located within
reach of Japan's industrial centers. The advantages so
far gained by the steps which Japan has taken with regard
to Indochina have not been such as to offset the effects
upon Japan's diplomatic position of the outbreak of
hostilities between Germany and the Soviet Union and the
continued drain upon Japan's resources of the hostilities
in China.
Moreover, the outbreak of German-Soviet hostilities
has presented sharply to Japan the prospect that a move
2. Japan less
against the Netherlands East Indies
likely to
move against
would expose Japan to attacks from the
Indies in
csse of em-
north and has created a division of
bargo
counsel within Japan upon the question
whether Japan's best interests may not lie for the im-
mediate future in being prepared to move northward against
Siberia. The German-Soviet hostilities therefore make it
1e8s

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.98)
-25-
 likely for the time being that Japan would react by
attempting to seize the Netherlands East Indies if an
oil embargo were to be applied by the United States against
Japan.
CONCLUSIONS
The decisions taken in this Department upon the course
of action to be followed with respect to oil shipments to
Japan have been related necessarily to developments in
the Far Eastern situation and to this Government's general
894.24
polioy with regard to that situation. Among the factors
determining the Department's decisions upon the question
of oil shipments to Japan have been the state of public
15
opinion in this country, which on the whole has ardently
desired non-involvement by this country in any hostilities
and whioh was slow in overcoming an aversion to measures in
the nature of sanotions; and the unwillingness of other
oil producing countries to cooperate in an oil embargo
against Japan unless this Government would give a guaran-
tee of military assistance in case difficulties with Japan
should result. With the outbreak of the European war
the question of oil shipments to Japan became only one
factor in the general strategic situation. Our military
GRET
and naval authorities advised that this Government was
not

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
-26
not prepared fer war on the Atlantio and the Pacific
simultaneously and that action likely to precipitate
trouble in the Far East should therefore be avoided. The
gaining of time to prepare became a paramount considera-
tion which affected this Government's policy toward oil
shipments, not because it was felt that an embargo upon
oil shipments would lead to an attack by Japan upon the
United States, but because an embargo would tend to lead
Japan to use duress or military force against British or
Netherland possessions in the Far East. It has been felt
that such a result would have been prejudicial to the
cause to which we were committed and to the progress of
this country's rearmament program, and might result in
war between the United States and Japan.
Additional considerations weighing against the cutting
off of all oil supplies to Japan have been the desire not
to impel Japan, or to give Japan an excuse, to move against
the Netherlands Indies while they were helpless after the
occupation of the Netherlands by Germany, and the desire
not to prejudice the ability of the Netherlands Indies to
hold their own in the discussions relating to the oil
shipments sought by a Japanese economic delegation in the
Netherlands Indies. This Government also wished to give
SECRET
an opportunity

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.99)
-27
opportunity for the full consideration of a proposal
put forward by the Japanese Ambassador here with a view to
bringing peace in the Pacific area.
Although all oil shipments to Japan from the United
States were not cut off, shipments of "aviation" gasoline
were stopped in the interests of national defense and
shipments of other petroleum products were permitted only un-
der license.
During the two years of time which have thus far been
gained, this Department has urged that the defenses of the
United States in the Pacific be increased and that the
British and Netherland Governments be enoouraged to in-
crease their Far Eastern defenses. The strategic posi-
tion of the United States with regard to the Pacific has
been strengthened month by month through the progress of
its rearmament and naval expansion programs; through the
building up of the defenses of the Philippines, Guam and
Samoa; and through the reinforcement with American en-
couragement and assistance of the defenses of Singapore
and other British possessions in the Far East and of the
Netherlands East Indies. This Government, moreover, has
extended material, financial, technical and moral as-
sistance to the Chinese Government; in recent months
this Government's determination to assist China has been
emphasized through the extension of aid under the "Lend-
Lease" Act. With the conclusion of the Three Power
Paot,

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.97)
-28
moreever, opinion in this country hardened with
regard to Japan so that support could be found for measure
such as, ultimately, the freezing of Japanese assets in
this country. Meantime although Japan has been receiving sub
samtial shipments of certain types of oil from the United
States, Japan's economic position and Japanese morale have
been drained by two more years of hostilities in China.
Japan's position has also been adversely affected by the
outbreak of hostilities between Germany and the Soviet
Union, which has confronted Japan with the prospect that
if hostilities should develop in the Pacific as a con-
aequence of Japanese acts, Japan would be open to attack
from all sides, and which has made Japan less likely for
the time being to react to the imposition of an oil embargo
by promptly moving against the Netherlands East Indies.
3.7.H
RB
FE:BaCOn:MHP

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.94)
DIVIBION OF
?RESTRICTED
Route to F. C. for
when primarily int
THE AMERICAN REPUBLICS
has noted this.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Paraparabe of a Code Radiogram
Received at the War Department
REOBIVED
at 5:83, August 4, 1941.
AUG 8 - 1941
U.L
S, U)
DIVIRION 
rong, filed August 2, 1941.
Su PA
Son
1. Majority of Japamese lath Division still visimity
Camtem and Hongkong. British sourees estimate appreximately
ome division Japanese moved from Canton area to Cambedia plus about
me brigade l04th Division.
TORMEY
894.24
Distribution:
State Department
Assistant Chief of Staff, 0-2
War Plans Division
SEP 1 1941
Office of Naval Intelligenod
G. H. Q.
Mr. Lauchlin Currie
SFP171941
PILE
RESTRICTED
AUC - 8 1941
RTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.97)
Mnited States Senate
COMMITTEE ON
EDUCATION AND LABOR
August
August 18, 1941
OF
RECEIVED
CEP 15 1941
AUG 2 0 1941
renc. reteune
8-20-41
of
Dirision of
Dr. Joseph C. Green
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
National Munitions Control Board
AUG 2 1941
360 Department of State Building
Washington, D. C.
Dear Dr. Green:
894.24/158
I have recently received a letter from one of my consti-
tuents, Mr. Parke S. Petterson, 56 G. Street, Salt Lake City, Utah,
in which he makes certain inquiries regarding the policy of our
894.24
nation with respect to Japan.
I am taking the liberty of enclosing Mr. Petterson's lette
herewith and I shall greatly appreciate it if you will have an
appropriate answer prepared which I may send to my constituent.
Sincerely yours,
Elbert S. Shomas
Elbert D. Thomas
PS
/LDP
8
SEP 1 6 1941
Enclosure
FILED

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.99)
56 G. Street,
Salt Lake City, Utah
July 30, 1941
Hon. Elbert D. Thomas,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Senator Thomas:
From numerous letters, broadcasts, and public statements
issued by you in the past several years, I know that you
have long been a strong advocate of the so-called "appease-
ment" policy on the part of this country toward Japan.
Your pro-Japanese sympathies have been manifest on many
occasions, and are well khown by all of your constituents
who follow the trend of international affairs with any
degree of concem.
I was present at a public forum meeting in Ogden,
Utah, in February, 1939, featuring the well knomn lecturer
Upton Close. At this meeting a letter from you was read
wherein you defended your stand for appeasement of the
Japanese militarists on the grounds that the growing crises
894.24
in the Far East might blow over and there was noneed of
antagonizing the Japanese unnecessarily.
Your constituents feel that the influence you have
exerted in your position in the Senate has in a large part
been responsible for the continued shipments of oil,
scrap-iron, and munitions from this country to Japan. We
are also convinced that had it not been for these shipments
of essential products to the Japanese, these pagan aggressors
would long since have been totally defeated by the valiant
Chinese patriots who are so bravely defending their homes
and lives.
We are curous to know the reason why you and the other
"statesmen" who determine our country's foreign policy have
deemed it wise to continue to supply Japan with the tools of
war which enabled her to wage ruthless and aggressive war
against the Chinese.
Even after Japan allied herself with those blood-
thirsty bastards Hitler and Mussolini in their despicable
plot to destroy all democracies (including our own), we
continued to ship oil, iron, and other essential war
materials for the use of the Japanese army. Why was this?
Even

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Even after this country launched its own defense program,
and the Administration was urging people to conserve gasoline,
to donate kitchen utensils, and to submit to higher taxes,
and to bend every possible effort to the building up of the
United States' defense -- even after this -- we continued
to supply our prospective enemy, Japan, with oil and iron.
Why was this?
I am sure that this Administration has had ample power
to order the cessation of such shipments, had it cared to do
so. Our president is empowered to enforce an embargo of
war materials against any belligerent country, is he not?
It therefore follows that the policy of appeasement
and collaboration with the Japanese has, for reasons known
only to the esoteric, been determined and pursued
deliberately and circumspectly by our national policy-
makers, such as yourself.
Mr. Thomas, I am not asking you to disclose any secrets
of international policy. But I would greatly appreciate a
letter from you stating clearly and concisely just why this
country has been so generous in arming and supplying Japan,
a nation which is opposed to us politically, economically,
and ideologically, and seems about to become our adversary
in a military sense, also.
Very truly yours,
PARKE S. PETTERSON

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.92)
August 27, 1941
xy dear Bemater Thems:
Referemee 1s made to your letter ef August 18, 1941,
addressed te Mr. Jeseph C. Green of the Departmant, with
respest to an imquiry frem Mr. Parke S. Petterson regard-
ing skipments of ail and other artieles to Japan.
Mr. Petterson is in error when he intimates that thare
894.
has been an unrestricted flow of militarily significant
eemmedities to Japan. During the past year, exports of
24/
sush artieles for Japan have not been allewed to exseed
1589
average ammmal prewar quantities and at the present time
they are being mere severely eurtailed. with respest to
serep iren and steel, whish Kr. Petterson mentiens, there
hae been a virtual embarge as regards Japan sinse Oeteber 16,
1948. At a recent press eemferemee the President stated
that ahipmate af ell to Japan have in the past beem
pamitted in erder to kesp penee in the Paeirie. n
S
Angust 1,
/LDI
1589
The reble
P
EIbert D. Themas.
Wadted states Semate.

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.89)
Angast 1, 204l, he anmoumeed a cbange in the previeus
pelley with regard to sush shipments. I emslese a cepy
of this anneuneement, whieh you may wish to bring to
. Petterson's attention.
The Letter from Mr. Pettersen is returned berewith.
sineerely yours,
Beslesures:
2. Press release,
August 1, 194.
2.
Frem Mr. Parine S.
Pettersem, July 80,
1041.
A live copy of
AUG
25 191
le signed orte
inal
ouvy
Co:1o:J0CB22-41
FE
A-A
WA

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DECELVEO
OCT 21 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1941 AUG 27  11 47
SUBJECT:
AND RECORDS
PARTICIPANTS: Mr. George S. Walden, Chairman of the Board of the
Standard-Vaouum Company,
Mr. Alger Hiss.
Assistant Socrotary
of State
COPIES TO:
AUG 1 6 1941
Anvay
pa
MR. ACHESON
894.24/1589
1-1408
Fursuant to decisions arrived at in the conferenoe
in Mr. Dean Aoheson's office on August 14, at whioh in
addition to Mr. Acheson, Mr. Hornbeck, Mr. Hamilton,
Mr. Yost and Mr. Hiss were present, 1 telephoned to
Mr. Walden in New York and told him that the Department
was now prepared to reply to the various questions which
he had raised in recent conversations on the subject of
851
the exportation of petroleum products from the Netherlands
East Indies by his Company to Japan. I thereupon informed
Mr. Walden of the following:
1589
PS
1. With respect to Mr. Walden's request that he be
/LDP
assured that the Treasury Department would grant
licenses for the payment in dollars to his Company
from

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
from Japanese blocked accounts for suoh shipments
of petroleum produots as his Company might be per-
mitted to make to Japan from the Netherlands East
Indies, I pointed out that in view of the decision
of the Netherlands Indies Government of whioh he
had been advised, his request is no longer of
significance. [The Netherlands Indies Government
has said that it wishes all shipments of petroleum
produots to Japan to be paid for in guilders. The
Indies Government will then itself make an appropriate
amount of dollars available to the Standard-Vaouum
Company in New York. As a result the question of
releasing Japanese blocked dollar balances will not
arise. Note: The effect of this arrangement is that
the Japanese do not have to use up their dollar balances
for petroleum received by them from the Netherlands East
Indies. Instead they are able to pay for such shipments
by means of their own exports to the Netherlands East
Indies which may not impose as great restrictions on
Japanese exports to them as this country is imposing
on Japanese exports to it. In addition, the large
dollar credits aooruing to the Indies Government because
of our purohases of tin, rubber and other strategio
supplies

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
supplies will in part be utilized to finance
the exportation of oil from the Netherlands
East Indies to Japan.]
2. With respect to shipments to Japan
under the Batavia contract of November 1940,
alrsaly
since the Japanese purchasers are enlyapplying
for export licenses there would appear to be no
reason for Mr. Walden's Company to make any change
in its own practice of not applying for such
licenses. In so far as concerns the desire of
Mr. Walden's Company that it should not export
in quality or quantity any petroleum products
from the Netherlands East Indies which it would
not be permitted to export from the United States,
I said that our Government had been informed by
the Indies Government that the latter desired to
make its export policy conform to ours. I said
that it could therefore be inferred that in pass-
ing upon applications for licenses the Indies
Government would bear suoh considerations in mind.
Mr. Walden thereupon asked me if that meant that
his Company oould assume that any export license
it received was issued in conformity with our own
policies. In view of the discussion in Mr. Aoheson's
offioo

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
office on this speoirio point I told Mr. Walden that
I was not in a position to answer this on behalf of
the Department, pointing out that it was impossible
for us to guarantee that no misunderstanding of our
polioy on the part of the Indies authorities would
arise. I went on to say that we were now prepared
to notify Mr. Walden of those petroleum produots the
exportation of whioh from the United States to Japan
was now completely embargoed, and I pointed out that
this list would enable nim to comply, with respect to
these produots at least, completely with our own
domestio polioy. Mr. Walden said that this list
would be nelpful but that he would also wish to keep
us informed ourrently of lioenses issued for the ship-
ment of other produots.
3. With respect to the so-called "normal quota"
business which Standard-Vacuum oarries on in Japan
independent of the Batavia Agreement, I said that the
Department was now withdrawing its request to him that
his Company make no application for export licenses,
and that what I had said previously with respeot to the
Indies Government's consultations with us and our list
d
of embargoe produots was applicab.: with respeot to this
business also.
Mr. Walden

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.97)
-5-
Mr. Walden thanked me for the information which
I had given him and said that he thought the questions
he reoeives our list of embargoed produots he will
prepare a telogram to his representatives in Batavia
based upon that list and upon the information which
I had communioated to him. He said that at the same
time he will notify the Shell Company of the position
894.2
whioh Standard-vaouum is taking since he thought that
it was important that the two companies follow similar
polioin this matter.
a
PA/H:AHisS:BGT

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.96)
Congress of the United States
Spouse ol Representatiies
Washington, D. C.
UFSIAIL
August 19, 1941
August 27, 1941
REOEIVED
A1IG28 1941
asd'd
DIVISION OF
9-20-V1
Republics
IVISION OF
Department of Stats
894.24/ 1590
Washington, D. C.
THE AMERICAN HEPURLICS
Dear Mr. Bursley:
D.PARTMENT OF SIATE
In keeping with your suggestion made in a telephonic conversation
with my office today, I am sending to you a copy of pertinent por-
tions of a letter which I have received from Mr. Andrew A. Bradford
of Haskell, Texas, who wishes to know if the State Department of
our Government would approve Mexico's trading, on a barter basis,
some of its oil and oil products to the Japanese Government for
silk. Mr. Bradford further wishes to learn whether or not he or
844.24
Members of any organization he has or may establish could, with the
approval of our State Department, participate in such transactions
in behalf of the Mexican Government.
I shall not endeavor to go further into Mr. Bradford's proposal as
I believe he has outlined it fairly well in the letter he has sent
to me, a copy of which is attached.
In view of the fact that Mr. Bradford is anxious to secure as defi-
PS/LDP
nite and as authoritative report as may be had under the circum-
stances and at the earliest opportunity, I would be deeply grateful
for your timely cooperation and consideration in connection with
this matter.
Sincerely yours,
Mahon
deorv
George Mahon
1550
SEP12 1941
FILED

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.98)
ANDREW A. BRADFORD
Haskell, Texas
ang1s, 19gt,
Honorable George Mahon
Congresman From Texas
House of Representatives
Washington, D. C.
Dear George:
Here I am back again asking you to do something else for me.
You will recall several days ago in our dorrespondence I mentioned
the question of the Mexican Government belng able to do business with
the Japanese Government in the sale of Petroleum products. This morning
I received a letter from my assoctate in Mexico City. Farts of this
letter I will quote to you, to t:
"The Mexican silk industry is menaced with a crisis; the lack of
natural silk and raypp (artifiolal silk) has created a problem
for the Mexican Government tecause within two months from twelve
to twenty thousand workmen will be with out jobs. A solution to
this problem faged by the Mexican industry and Mexican Government
as well, could be wqrked out if a permit with the United States
Government cotld be abtained where the Mexican Government could
exchange with Japan, silk and rayon for crude oil or refined oil
or refined oil products nd at the same time export, say, 50% of the
silk to United States Government who is in great need of it. This
license w ld be hichly appreciated as a friendly esture, as Mexico
would not deal with Japan or in any other way to against the Pan
American Good Neighbor policy. I make this suggestion because our
government is acing very hard times due to the war and the present
crisis does not help it any, to say nothing of the workmen and
industry so radically hurt by this urastic measure.
i01 will notice where he states that 50% could be imported into the
United States; now in case that the State Department did not want any
Japanese silk brought in here, see if they will grant license for Mexico
to deal directly with Japan provided every' transaction that we made on
behalf of the Mexican Government with Japan was filed with the State
Department of the United States Government. In that way Mexico could
do a limited barter business with Japan under the supervision of the
United States Government.

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.99)
I understand that the Mexican State Department is going to ask our
State Department for a license to trade with Japan. I would appreciate
it very much if you would check up on th s for me and see if the State
Department of our Government is oing to rant license and if they are,
if they will permit us to work with the Mexican Government on this
trade.
I hope that I am not imposing on you to .uch and at any time that you
feel that I am taking too much of your time, please holler.
Again thanking you for the many favors you lave shown me in the past.
With my very ixst wishes nd kindest personal regards, I am
Sincerely,
Andrew A. Bradford

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.94)
August 27, 1941
Ny dear Xr. Xahon:
I have received your letter of August 19, 1941
enclesing the text of the pertinent part of a commumies-
894.24/1
tion dated August 16, 1941 from Mr. Andrew A. Bradford,
Haskell, Texas, with regard to foreign trade of Nexieo.
In as muah as Mexico is a sovereign country, it
requires no permission from the United States to engage
1590
in import and export trade with third countries exeept
1n those oases where the funds involved may have been
frosen or subjeet to freezing in the United States.
The United States is not at this time interested
in obtaining through Mexieo silk produced in Japan.
With referenoe to Mr. Bradford's suggestion that
Mexiee might acquire silk and rayen from Japan, I
P
emelese for your information and that of Mr. Bredferd a
S
news
The Renesable
Geerge Naken,
Sease of Repressatataves.

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.93)
aove 1ten publ1ked La the Ralstaee h Aagust 19, 2odls
that is, subeequent to the date of Nr. Breafere's eom-
mmieation.
It is underetood that Mexieo has within the pass
three yeare made very few sales of petroloum preduets
to Japan and it is further understood that Mexioo has
evideneed a laok of desire to supply Japan with oll.
Mereever, in view of the laok of faollities for leading
oll for export on the West Coast of Mexleo and the
diffioulsies and oost involved in ahipping oil to Japan
from the Oulf Coast of Mexloo, it does not e pear that
shipments of petroleum produots from Mexieo to Japan
are practicable at this time.
The Department is arpreoiative of the thougatfulness
of Mr. Bradford in presenting his views and of your eem-
munleating them to the Department, but in view of all
the eireumstanees, the Department is unable to effer ay
eneouragement to him in conneetion with his plantte
eneourage "a limited barter business" between Mexiee
and Japam.
I may state that while the United States faees a
preblem in comneetion with the employment of persone in
thie esumtry who may lose sheir jobe as a resuls of the
00001

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.84)
seareity of eilk and rayon, is is endeavering to be s
assistanee te Nezieo in obtaiming rayen with a view to
the preventien, in se far as possible, of unempleymemt
in the silk eloth and stoeking and related industries ef
Mexieo.
sinoerely yours,
 rJell Hull
Enclesure :
Newspaper elippimg (oopy).
OR
ADG 25 941
EA
esf
am
GLHCD
708

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.98)
MEXICAN UNION REFUSES JAPANESE OFFEN OF SILK
Deelinss to Ast When Tokye Sesks Addisional
Shipments of War Supplies--Looks to U. S.
(Cepyright by N. Y. Tribune, Ino.)
Mexieo City, Aug. 18--Japanese importers, it was
learmed today, in an attempt to persaade Nexico to resume
shipments of war supplies to Japan, have offered in ex-
shange to supply Mexieo with all its silk and rayon meeds,
depleted by American defense priority measures.
However, the Textile Workers' Union, to whieh the
offer was made in the expeotation that it would bring
pressure to bear on the Government, has turned it down
because it considers Mexioo's pledge to cooperate in
continental defense more important than the personal
situation of Mexican textile workers.
The union petitioned the Minister of Industries to
begin negotiations with Washington in an attempt to
persuade the United States to lst Mexioo have sufficient
silk and rayen to prevent unemployment of 7,000 workers
in the industry.

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.95)
ARYOF
SECRETA
DEPARTMENT QF STATE
ATIONS
REOEIVED
AUG 3 0 1941
RELA
ADVISER ON PAOLTMENT RESANGINS
NOTED
August 27, 19
1941 SEP 5 PM 4 26
AUG 30 1941
In an article in the)Noy York Times, August 24, 1941,
COMMUNICATIONS
Mr. J. H. Carmical stateANDAfCeRDlia:
"Last year Japan imported from the United
States 13,500,000 barrels of crude o1l and
4,250,000 from other sources, a total of
94.24/1591
Further, Mr. Carmical estimates that "Japan's oil
supplies now amount to around 80,000,000 barrels, or
enough for about two and one-half years, on the basis
89424
Most of this Japan has, as we know, imported from the
United States.
1.591
Sute
and
S
EP111941
E
PS/LDP
ED
Lown.
Division of
FAR EASTERIL AFFAIRS
SEV2 194

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.96)
By Safe Hand
gile
BRITISH EMBASSY
Copyto Bridgman
RECEIVED
OFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
75
SEP 6 1941
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
SEP -4 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TF.82689-5-41
My dear Finletter,
Peruvian Molybdenum
We have now had a telegram from Lima
stating that all further deliveries to Japan will be
stopped at once, provided that the united kingdom buys
instead.
As the United kingdom Government
894.24/1592
had, as you know, already decided to buy, 1 think we may
consider the question as satisfactorily closed.
894.24
Yours sincerely,
Armamni.
A. D. arris.
Mr. T. K. Finletter
Special Assistant to the Secretary
Room 362, United States Department of State
Washington, D. C.
SEP
PS
JIGHO
6 1941
/LDP

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.96)
In reply refer to
September 5, 1941.
RA
My dear Mr. Bridgman:
I enolose a copy of a letter from Marris to me
which seems to dispose of the problem of Peruvian
molybdenum.
Sincerely yours,
894.24/1592
Thomos X. Finletter
Special Assistant
to the Seoretury
Enclosure:
From A. D. Marris,
September 4, 1941.
A true covy cf
Mr. G. T. Bridgman,
Vice President,
PS/LDP
Metals Roserve Company,
811 Vermont Avenue,
Washington, D.C.
KA:TKF:EHS
9/5

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.97)
Bafe Hand
BRITISH EMBASSY
WASHINGTON, D. C.
SEP 12 1941
Ren
September 3, 1941
RECEIVED
AUG 2 0 1943
Ar. Alchimcloss,
We learn on reliable imformation from Shanghai that
894.24/1593
attempt is being made to import into Shanghai, almost certaimly
for Japanese account, 11,400 lbs. of Mercury from "Mich Benitez" in
Mexico. I understand that there is a Miszelanta Liborio Benitez of
Lubano 720 Mexico City, who may be the individual concerned.
The market price in Shanghai is seid to be U. S. $520
against U. S. $2lo f.o.b. which is reported to be the price ruling
in Mexico City.
Our Consul General at Mexico City reports that the
firm in question (he does not give their full name) gave him the
following information: - The enquiry was first received from Malcolm
894.24
of Shanghai through the Mexican Minister at Shanghai and the Mexican
Secretariat of Foreign Relations. Subsequently AGMOL of Shanghai
2
cabled direct to the Mexicen firms thet Malcolm could no longer act
for them and established a credit of $30,000 with the Natiomal City
Bank, Mexico City. The Mexican firm said they were trying to es-
tablish the identity of AGMOL and asked if they could comtimue deal-
ing with them. Neither Mexico City nor we know anything of AGMOL.
Admittedly the above does not tell the whole story.
I understand that under the United States - Mexican Agreement,
mercury could only be exported to U. S. A. or countries in the
Western Hemisphere with parallel licencing systems, but I am bring-
ing the case to your attention as you might wish to make enquiries
to establish whether as implied in our report from Shanghai, an
effort is being made to circumvent the agreement.
We should be most grateful if you could let usknew
if you have any information corroborating this report? and wold
propose to call you up to confirm my understanding of the eTrec
PS/KN
of the United States - Mexican agreement.
19
Yours sincerely,
Mr. John W. Auchincloss
Meil Adan.
Room 362, U. S. Department of State
Washington, D. C.
(R. Reid-Adam)

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.96)
86
DIVISION OF
SEP 16 1941
TELEGRAM RECEIMED AN REPUBLICS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Bogota
This telegram must be
Dated September 9, 1941
olodely paraphrasEd bE-
Del toogrtal.
fore being communicated
to anyonE. (br)
OFFICE OF THE AE: ON
INIERNATIONAL ECONGMIC AFFAIRS
SEP 11 1941
SEcrEtary of StatE,
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Washington.
TRF:E89-11-41
894.24/15
393, SEptEmbEr 9, 8 p.m. (SECTION ONE)
FOR FINLETTER.
RefErencE 1s mndE to thE DEpartmEnt's tElEgram
894.24/1536
5
no. 270, August 27, 5 p.m.
YEsterday Minister for ForEign Relations handed
mE a mEmorandum giving thE rEquirEmEnts of thE fivE
Colombian silk mills at 44,418 pounds pEr quarter,
stocks now on hand amounting to 31,532 pounds although
somE mills, including ModElia, havE lEss than a
month's supply. MEmorandum statEs that whilE Colombiag
894.24
FILED
Government apprEciates DEpartment's attitudE in placings
te
concErns rayon, local manufacturers claim it will take
PS/MW
somE timE to adapt EquipmEnt to rayon and that natural
silk must bE obtained to prevent closing plants.
If thEsE allegations arE untruE-I would apprEciatE full
information together with dEfinitE assurances of a
rayon supply otherwisE I rEcommEnd that thE silk
situation bE EarnEstly considEred, a prompt dtcision
taken

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.97)
ptember 9, 8 p.m. from Bogota
an and wE bE informEd by tElegraph.
WhilE wE havE succEeded in tEmporarily divoreing
platinum and silk it is nEoEssary that platinum nEg-
otiations bE concluded without further dElay and
EssEntial that thE 62,376 grams of this mEtal now
on hand bE purchased at oncE.
BRADEN
EMB

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.96)
88
rammust bE
Dated BEptEmbEr'9, 1941.
E bEing
to anyone.TÉrEGRAM RECEIVED 10:35 p.m.
SEoretary of StatE,
FROM
Washington.
393, SEptEmbEr 9, 8 p.m. (SECTION TWO)
REcEnt prEss articlEs statE that bEcausE Japan
is no longer purchasing, platinum price has fallen
below that for gold. ThE GovErnment in principlE has
accEpted all our proposals. ThereforE, I rEcomnend
that duly authorizEd rEprEsEntativE of thE Metals
REsErvE Company bE sEnt to Bogota by planE toconcludE
contract, organizE thE purchasing program, and instruct
the Bank of the REpublic in all dEtails rEgarding assay
shipnent, Et cEtera. ThE only point still opEn for
discussion 1s whEther to sEt a pricE of $38 pEr finE
ouncE for thE lifE of contract or to sEt pricEs for
shorter pEriods; Chief of ExchangE Control OfficE
says EithEr procEdurE will bE accEptablE.
Every day's delay will further complicatE the
situatiom. Already "jEwElers" in both Argentina and
Cuba arE rEportedly making offErs and with thE Bank
of thE Republic unablE to procEed or to offer to purchasE
platinum, prompt and immediatE action must bE taken.
(END OF MESSAGE)
BRADEN
NK
NK

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.96)
SEP 3-1941
NOTED
DIVIRION nI
DCR
According to these figures, the grand
tal of our exports of petroleum products
to Japan (exclusive of minor items, e.g.
894.24/1594
natural gasoline, kerosene, "greases",
t cetera, which, if included, would in-
crease the figure) for the years 1937-1940
(four years) comes to 109,178,000 barrels.
Comparable figures for first half of 1941
are not available at the moment, but for
January, February, March, they total
4,735,000 barrels
PS
/AG
SKH
894.24
SEP121949
FILED
SEP 11 1941
li

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.97)
EXPORTS FROM UNITED STATES TO JAPAN OF PRIMARY PETROLEUM PRODUCTS, 1937
(all figures in barrels)
1937
1938
1939
1940
Crude......... 15,995,000
21,271,000
16,086,000
11,529,000
Gasoline...... 1,093,000
1,059,000
1,198,000
3,152,000
Gas and fuel
oil.. 6,308,000
5,297,000
6,020,000
5,116,000
Residual
fue1 oil.. 4,045,000
3,030,000
3,889,000
2,132,000
Lubricating
oil.. 444,000
307,000
514,000
693,000
total (bbls.) 27,885,000
30,964,000
27,707,000
22,622,000
Tote
109,178,000 bee
Source: Official publications of U.S. Department ofCommerce
9/11
Thi ligue shonlesl hare been
even lighey - 819, 0oo bblo.
acconding to corected Commerce
pignes not yet pube
124
a.4

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.95)
AirEs
LEGRAM RECEIVED
tay paraphrastd bE-
Dated BEptember 10, 1941
Lore being obmmunioated
to anyone. (br)
Rectd 8:45 p.m.
FROM
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
Beorstary of StatE,
SEP 11194
Washington.
DEPARTMENTATE
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIR
ICAN REPOULICS
DARTMENT OF STATE,
943, SEptEmbEr 10, 7 p.m.
SEP 19 1941
RefErring to DefencE Commission's ciroular
Department of State
tElEgram of JunE 15, 1940, and subsEquEnt rEquEsts
for rEports on Exports of orEs of strategic minErals:
2
mEtrio tons for Auguet to Japan tungsten 63, bEryl nonE,
mica 101, vanadinitE 52, 11thium 20 g1lsonitE 50; to
55
thE United StatEs tungsten 87, bEry1 zEro, mica 5.
6
to
5
Four hundred tons beryl will bE Exported to thE
United StatEs during SEptEmber. Also to Japan during
last month 5,000 flasks nErcury totaling 200 tons
(n) argentane
manifEsted as mErcurio Espanol lEft on JapanEsE
S
stEaner YAMAURA MARU August 28. Inquir1Es arE bEing
/BH
madE rEgarding origin of this mercury. PrivatE sourcE
advisEs 61 tons tungstEn orE and 42 tons vanadinitE orE
loadEd to datE on JapanEsE ship YAMAZATU MARU but thEsE
amounts arE not included in August totals as steamer
S
has not yEt dEparted.. Last JapanEsE tungsten purosE
2
ILED
at pricE Equivalent to 25 dollars short ton unit
2
WO3 c.1.f. NEw York
ARMOUR
4
KLP

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.97)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
Japmese army equipment. A meeting of Japanese officials was
SUBJECT
called on July 24 at Peiping by Asia Affairs Bpard and it was
dided to transfer a sum of U. S. currency reputedly between 600,00
and 1,000,v00 dollars from Japanese funds in the U. S. to Volkart
Brothars, New York for purchase of Amerioan cotton.
894.24/1596
fp
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Tel. 63- 4pm
(Despaloh, telegram, instruction, letter, eta.)
From
Dated ....
Septa 8.1941
Tsingtao (Meyer)
To
File No.
840.51 FrozenCradits/3393
B. 8. GOVERNNENT PRINTING OFFICE 1-1540
1596

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.96)
NyasRu
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
September 11, 1941
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
MMORANDUM to Mr. Williemson:
On June 18, 194l, you sent to Mr. Wiley a copy of a letter
from the vice-president of the United States Smelting Refining
894.24/1596-1/2
and Mining Company relative to the attempt made in Mexico by
Robert H. Sherman of Bernard Bandler & Sons, San Francisco, to
secure a considerable quantity of bortz for shipment to Japan.
For your information we have just been informed through
a reliable source that Bernard Bandler & Sons handle commercial
diamonds as a business; that they have a foreign agent in Japan
to whom shipments from this country of carbon only were made
up to about four years ago when they started to ship bortz and
carbon from Brazil to the Japanese agent; that due to diffi-
culties encountered in Brazil they thought bortz might be
shipped from Mexico to Japan and, accordingly, commissioned
Robert H. Sherman to ascertain whether commercial diamonds
could be purchased in Mexico and what business concern could
handle the shipments, but that the efforts of Sherman while
in Mexico were not successful.
It is also reported that the president of the firm repre-
sented that commercial diamonds would not be sold to any firm
in this country unless it were known that the ultimate desti-
nation was an American firm by which the diamonds would be
used in the United States, and that his firm has a gentleman's
agreement as the result of which all sales of this class of
merchandise are invariably reported to the British Board of
Trade.
Sauncul (Cau)
DEC 30 1943
FIL
SAMURL KLAUS
PS/KN
ED

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.98)
894.24
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Supplies for Japan.
Informs of possibility that lard purchased from United
States by Japan is going forward to Germany.
894.24/1597
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Memorandum
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)
State Department
From
Dated_April2.1941
European Affairs
-Te--
(Henderson)
File No.
861.24/554
B. 8. GOVERKMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1-1540
1347

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.95)
ROSSHEPERENCEFILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Polioy on oil to Japan.
Requests information concerning the,-
894.24/1598
For the original paper from which reference is taken
Letter
(Deepaich, telegram, instraction, letter, etc.)
From
Navy Dopartment
Dated Auguat 9. 1941.
761/
File No.
894.85/645
. 8. GOVRNNT PRINTING OFICE 1-1540
1598

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.96)
EFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Colombian platinum and silk situation.
Requests an estimate of quantity of silk
that Colombia would need to carry it
through an adjustment period for three
months.
894.24/1599
bas
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See Tel 270. 50
(Despatcb, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
Dated Ang 27, 1941
Colombia
To
File No.894.24/2536
U. B. GOVERNNNT PRINTING OPICE 1-1540
1599

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.98)
ENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Molybdenum contract with Japan may be cancelled
inmediately.
894.24/1600
Transmits report statinr that the -.
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Despatch #1647
(Despatah, telegram, instruction, lettex, eto.)
Peru
From
DatedAugust 29. 1941
(Greenup)
To
File No.
823.6359 Molybdenum/3
U. S. GOVERNNENT PRINTING OPPICE 1-1540
1600

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.91)
BY AIR MAIL /9/4
LEGATION OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
La Paz, Bolivia, September 8, 1941.
DIVIGION OF
No. 1076
THE AMENICAN MEPUBLICS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Subject:
Continuing Efforts df Japangse to obtain
Department of State
COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
Bolivian Minerals.
3E3
CONFIDENTIAL.
OFFICE OF THE ACVISER ON
Coby 8
SCA
ERATIONAL ECONOMIC ARS
Celayton
.F.F
SEP1819
9-243-41
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
HT=cdo
PAE STA
For Diatribution
894.24/1601
PM 12
com
E 3
EVEO
AISNGN OF
15
941I SEP
0
DIVISION
FAR EASTERN AFFA
194
Department of Sta
STATE
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
With reference to the Legation's confidential des-
patch No. 978 of July 31, 1941, in which was reported
a Japanese threat to cut off exports of textiles to
Holivia unless this country continued to ship minerals
in return, I have the honor to furnish certain details
regarding further efforts of Japan to obtain such
OCT 3 1941
minerals and to make payment for them.
FIL
Following
(. (

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Following the threat mentioned above, which re-
ceived little attention from the Bolivian Government,
no additional moves were made, openly at least, until
some two weeks ago when the local Japanese Chargé
visited the Minister of National Economy with the
suggestion that Bolivia sell Japan that mineral pro-
duction not already contracted for by other countries
and accept in payment bolivianos, of which Japanese
interests have sizable deposits in the Banco Central.
The Minister showed little interest in this offer and
the Chargé then countered by suggesting a barter deal,
Bolivia to ship minerals and to receive in exchange
Japanese textiles, pottery and other products. This
suggestion was also rather coolly received by the
Minister, who fortunately is very friendly to the
cause of the democracies, and the Legation understands
that the conversation ended on this basis.
The next attempt to arrive at a satisfactory arrange-
ment was made by the Yokohama Specie Bank of Rio de
Janeiro, which requested the Banco Central to open a
dollar account in its name and to accept in exchange
for these dollar credits the bolivianos which the Specie
Bank now has on deposit with the Banco Central. This
request was refused by the Foreign Exchange Commission
(consisting of the Minister of National Economy, and
the managers of the Banco Meroantil, the Banco Nacional,
and the Banco Central) and the Yokohama Bank then suggested
that the Banco Central turn over to the Banco Minero
sufficient

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
sufficient dollars to cover the mineral purchases
which Japanese interests desire to make, accepting in
exchange for these dollars the bolivianos on deposit
with the Banco Central. As observed in seweral pre-
vious despatches, the manager of the Banco Central
sometimes appears to be a little more anxious to
gain a profit than complete friendliness to the anti-
totalitarian struggle wauld justify and he was, accord-
ing to the Legation's information, disposed to accede
to this last request, in spite of the fact that the
result for all practical purposes would have been ex-
actly the same as though the Specie Bank had been per-
mitted to open a dollar account. He is understood
to have been overruled by the other members of the
Exchange Commission, however, and the Japanese are
consequently casting about for otner possibilities.
One of these possibilities which has come to the
attention of the Legation, and one which is believed
to have been effectively, though unofficially, blocked,
was a proposal to a large Bolivian commercial firm
(Jorge Saenz e Hijos) by a local Japanese concern
owned by one Armando H. ONO that SAENZ act as inter-
mediary for the house of Yamamoto, Kobe, in a barter
deal such as that suggested previously to the Minister
of National Economy. The details of the proposed trans-
action were as follows: Saenz e Hijos would purchaae
for dollars antimony, lead, copper and quinine which
they would ship to Yamamoto and for which they would
receive in exchange Japanese goods to be sold locally.
In

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.99)
-4 -
In order to carry on transactions of the kind
described for any length of time Yamamoto would have
to reach an agreement with a very well-established
and financially sound Bolivian concern, since the
arrangement would involve continual dollar expendi-
tures and boliviano reciepts. Unless the Bolivian
firm were at the same time carrying on other business
transactions to replenish its supply of dollars 
the entire arrangement would fall of its own weight
after the first exchange. It is believed that Saenz
is one of the few Bolivian concerns which could possibly
do this and that if, as is believed almost certain,
Saenz refuses the proposal the Japanese will experience
considerable difficulty in locating another organization
capable of even considering such an arrangement.
The Legation understands that no shipments of
Japanese goods have been made to Bolivia for the past
six weeks, so it appears that Japan is following
through on its threat to cut off exports to Bolivia.
However, this is easy to understand because, unless
Japan is able to obtain Bolivian minerals in exchange,
it will be impossible for that country to receive
payment for any shipments it might make. Thus far the
effect of this cutting off of Japanese exports has not
been felt, since Japanese retail stores in Bolivia
are well-stecked and there are also understood to be
large quantities of merchandise in Arica awaiting
shipment to La Paz. What the reaction will be if
these stocks are exhausted and higher prices have
to

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
to be paid for similar products imported from England
or the United States (or  if. they cannot be bought
at any price) cannot be foreseen, but there seems as
yet to be little or no concern in official circles
over the situation.
Attempts are still being made by Bolivia to obtain
an enlarged quota, amounting to £400,000, for impor-
tations from England (see despatch No. 978 of July 31),
and if this is granted the problem would be partially
solwed. However, in view of the fact that total im-
portations of cotton textiles in to Bolivia during
1940 amounted to approximately £400,000, of which
some £3009000 came from Japan and only £19,000 from
England, it seems probable that some difficulty may
be experienced. As a matter of fact Bolivia's impor-
tations of these products from the United States
during 1940, about £25,000, were greater than from
England, and our country may be in a better position
at this time to assume the extra business than England.
In the meantime, payments for those Bolivian
minerals which the Japanese have been able to obtain
are being made by many devious means. In this con-
nection reference is made to the Lima Embassy's despatch
No. 1638 dated August 28, 1941, a copy of which was
forwarged to this Legation, and the following additional
examples of such payments are offered for the Depart-
ment's information. These data were obtained from an
employee of the Banco Minero who is believed to be
reliable.
Before

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
Bofore. August, 1941:
The Banco Italiano, Lima, deposited to the oredit
of the Banco Minero, La Paz, in the National City Bank,
Lima, drafts against the National City Bank, New York.
These deposits were made by the Banco Italiano for
Cia. Peruana de Comercio Intercontinental S. A. Ltda.,
Lima, who in turn was acting for Bernardo Elsner
(Casa Bernardo).
The Bank of America, San Francisco, made deposits
to the credit of the Banco Minero in the National
City Bank, New York, for Sanyei Yoko (Kyllmann Bauer
& Cia.).
Before and after August, 1941:
Cia. Comercial Taibo S. A. (Santiago, Chile)
deposits drafts on New York Banks in the Banco de
Chile, Santiago, to the credit of the Banco Minero.
Mitsubishi S. A. Chile; same as above.
Cia. Comercial Taibo S. A. and Mitsubishi S. A.,
Chile, through the Banco de Chile advise the Banco
Central of Bolivia to draw against the Chilean bank's
account in the Chemical Bank & Trust Co., New York,
to the favor of Banco Minero, which in turn deposits
the drafts in the Grace National Bank, New York.
C. Itoh & Co., Sanwa & Co., Mitsui & Co. Ltd.,
Matsura Trading Co., whose local agents are res-
pectiwely Lucio Nishi, T. Komori & Co., H. Harjes,
and Ochiay & Co., carry out the same financial
transaction as that described above, except that
they work through the Banco do Brasil.
Respectfully yours,
Doccaa Jium
Douglas Jenkins
863/851/851.6/868.1
CRB/mw
入
Original and three copies
3 reent art9/sns
by airmail.
3

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.95)
TMENT OF STATE
CIAL ASSISTANT TO THE SECRETARY
August 20, 1941.
Mr. Yost
I assume that this is within your
jurisdiction and have accordingly taken
no action.
CL
RECEIVED
DIVISION OF
EA:NLETTER:EHS

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.98)
BRITISH EMBASSY,
WASHINGTON, D. C.
August 16th, 1941
By Bafe Hand
Let, to m. Neut
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
9-4-41
(.)September 6, 1941
DEPARTMENT OF VTATE
Dear Finletter,
894.202/2/536 In a memorandum attached to my letter to
you of July 3rd under the heading "Petleonsa" there is a re-
port of efforts being made by Mitsubishi, Tokyo, to import
well drilling machinery via their Mexican branch.
London now inform us that they have learned
of similar efforts being made in Buenos Aires. The report
is to the effect that Mitsubishi, Buenos Aires, have obtained
estimates for four well drilling machines from the National
894.24/1602
Supply Company. Mitsubishi, Buenos Aires, transmitted par-
ticulars to their Ore Department in Tokyo on July 1Oth, and
it therefore appears more than probable that efforts are
being made to obtain the machinery ostensibly for the Argen-
tine, with the intention of subsequently reexporting it to
Japan.
The following details, which are somewhat
sketchy, may help to identify the orders:
1)
The cost of each machine was quoted at $62,235
f.a.s. New York, or $70,326 f.o.b. Buenos Aires.
Delivery in Buenos Aires five months after
placing the order.
2)
The following details of the order are incomplete
but I am giving them to you in case they are of
assistance -
a)
Derrick 94 feet tubular Moore K type
b)
Ideal Draw Work type No. 30
c)
Mud Pump Ideal type No. C/100
a)
Type number F.E. 5 crown
e)
Type number D/6 60 tons 6... surface
casings 200 feet
SEP18 1941
894.24
I am /
FILED
P
Mr. T. K. Finletter,
S
Special Assistant to the Secretary,
1
United States Department of State,
B
Washington. D.C.

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
Mr. T. K. Finletter
August 16th, 1941
I am afraid you may feel that this subject is
rather outside your province. I am therefore sending
this letter in duplicate in case you wish to send a copy
to some other Department.
Yours sincerely,
JSD:MS

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.98)
BRITISH EMBASSY,
WASHINGTON, D. C.
August 16th, 1941
Dear Finletter,
In a memorandum attached to my letter to
you of July 3rd under the heading "Petleonsa" there is a re-
port of efforts being made by Mitsubishi, Tokyo, to import
well drilling machinery via their Mexican branch.
London now inform us that they have learned
of similar efforts being made in Buenos Aires. The report
is to the effect that Mitsubishi, Buenos Aires, have obtained
estimates for four well drilling machines from the National
Supply Company. Mitsubishi, Buenos Aires, transmitted par-
ticulars to their Ore Department in Tokyo on July 10th, and
it therefore appears more than probable that efforts are
being made to obtain the machinery ostensibly for the Argen-
time, with the intention of subsequently reexporting it to
Japan.
The following details, which are somewhat
sketchy, may help to identify the orders:
1)
The cost of each machine was quoted at $62,235
f.a.s. New York, or $70,326 f.o.b. Buenos Aires.
Delivery in Buenos Aires five months after
placing the order.
2)
The following details of the order are incomplete
but I am giving them to you in case they are of
assistance -
Derrick 4 fest tubular Moore K type
a)
b
Ideal Draw Work type No. 30
Mud Pump Ideal type No. C/100
Type number F.E. 5 crown
Type mumber D/6 60 tons 6... surface
casings 200 feet
I/
Mr. T. I. Finletter,
Special Assistant to the Secretary,
United States Department of State,
Washington, D.C.

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.95)
-2
August 16th, 1941
rT.L. Finletter
I an afraid you may feel that this subject is
rather cutside your province. I am therefore sending
this letter in duplicate in case you wish to send a copy
to some other Department.
Yours sincerely,
JSD:M8

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.91)
September 6, 1941
ydoa Nr. Dent:
I refer to yeur mete of Angust 16 to Nr. Pinletter
passing en reports that efferts are being made by
Miteubishi of Tokye to impert well-drilling mashizery
via his Mexiean braneh, asd alse threugh Argentima.
The matter has been diseussed with our Centrel
4.24/1F02
Divisiem and the Admimistrater of Expert Contrel. Beth
will exert all vigilamse in the matter.
Apparemtly there were other bidders besides the
Natiemal Supply Cerperatien.
simeerely yours,
894.24
Mr. J. s. Demt,
Seccnd Sesretary,
British Embasey.
PS/B
SEP
5 1941
Cr
94

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.94)
CON
4N
THECROWELLPUBLISHING COMPANT
OPPICE OF THE EDITOR
Sept. 16, 1941
Department of State,
1941
Washington, D.C.
Gentlemen:-
I forwarded the attached letter
from former Representative James M. deFoor
to the Department of the Interior. MF.
894.24
W. H. MoCrillis, Special Assistant to the
Seoretary, suggests that I send it to the
Department of State.
Can you furnish me with the
necessary information?
894.24/1604
Very truly yours,
Killianst. Chenerg
October 4, 1941
end.
ansd
DCT 10 1841
en
PS/BHLED
a3
FAR EASTERAIRS
OCT,13 1941
1941
Department of State
D

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.99)
Townsend, Ga.
August 27, 1941.
Mr. Thomas H. Beck,
Editorial Director,
Collier's,
250 Park Avenue,
New York City.
Dear Sir:
I have just read the August 23rd Collier's Editori-
al entitled "Cooperation American Plan."
The next to the last paragraph in this article reads
as follows:- Don't be upset by the fact that the Japanese
have been allowed to buy some American petroleum. The
Japanese provided their own tankers. They took nothing
we needed. We got what we wanted in return.
2
Yes, the Japanese did provide their own tankers and
American boats also carried oil to Japan. A friend of
mine just returned from Japan the latter part of July on
the ship "James Lykes" of the Lykes Brothers Steamship
Company of New Orleans, La., and their cargo was oil.
He said other American boats also were carrying oil to
Japan. Too, he stated that the "James Lykes" was not a
tanker and the oil was shipped in drums or barrels.
On the return trip, their cargo was sugar and copra
picked up on two stops in the Phillipines. The return
cargo being what it was I can't understand the last sen-
tence in your paragraph above quoted. I say this for the
reason that there might be merchandise a tanker could
not bring back to us from Japan but surely a cargo freighter
could and yet it brought Phillipine merchandise.
I think you should correct this paragraph as it does
not present the whole truth and I know Collier's would
not have it otherwise.
Very truly yours,
JAMES M. DeFoor

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.89)
Ostober 4, 1941
Geer Mr. Chenery:
the reseipt is moknowledged of your conmunicatien
of september l6, 1941, w1th whion you enelose a letter
894.24/1604
of August 27 reseived by you frem ir. James M. Defoer.
Townsend, Georgie, in whion comment is made on an edi-
torial appearing in the August 23 issue of Collier's
entitled "Cooperation merican lan".
Although de. Defeer's letter is not eatirely oleer,
is appears that he has sone questions in oonneotion witn
Lafommetion waien he has reosivod to the ef eet that the
5.B. Lames Lrke, which is stated to have returned frem
Japem the latter part of July, brought baek to the Daited
States eargo from the Philippines instoed of from Japem.
mile the Department is not in possession of infermatiom
.w1lllm L. Chemery.
mMiter, Collier's,
The Crewall Publishing Cozpany,
290 Park Aveaue
Now Tork, kow York.
PS/MM

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.85)
thse peint, 16 le suesested thas the Lastitutten 
Sapem in the latter part of July of measures siniler to
the freesing in shis couatry of certain tremseetiene in
funds and property may have had some bearing on sae mats
ter. You meght wish to communieate with the Lykes Breth-
ere Steanship Company as to the reason for this proeedure.
Mr. Defoor's letter is returned herewith.
Sinoeroly yours,
For the feoretary of State:
Liarwell M. Hamilton
Chior
Division of Far Tastern Affairs
Raslesure:
Mr. Jamee M. Deroer's
Letter of August 27, 1941.
1021
OCT
29C.
iè signed c
6A
Co
Pan

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.95)
Reis 9/30
Copy aonted a Paflt
HIVED
TE, EA, CO, A-A
SEP 2 0 1941
DIVISIMN OF
Saent
BRITISH EMBASSY,
SAFE HAND
WASHINGTON, D.C.,
Assistant Secretary3
Suut, of State
August 30th, 1941.
DA SEP 3A 1941
J.R
Dear Mr. Acheson,
MR. ACHSON
In Mr. Hall's absence I am writing to give you
some information which we have received from Lonuon
upon our policy with regard to China.
It has been äecided that to prevent the Japanese
benefiting from our exports to occupied China, it is
88
necessary to control by licensing all exports to China
394.24/1605
except those going via the Burma Road. To avoid injury
to legitimate Chinese interests pending the making of
detailed arrangements, it is intended to rant licenses
freely within the limits of nornal trade for exports other
than -
(a)
those not available for supply reasons
(b)
those contained in the annexed list which
has been called the " il List".
Confic
(c)
any specific consignments where there are
strong reasons for refusing on grounds of
89324
PS
economic warfare.
de
/B
Action on the above lines is being taken forthwith
by the United Kinguom and the Colonies. India, Burma and
Th
工
the Dominions are being invited to take similar action.
a
Government of Hong Kong, however, is being given some
latitude in the application of the abovementioned policy.
It will be appreciated that although the same export
licensing machinery is being used both for China and Japan
FILED
P
it/
2
01941
Mr. Dean Acheson,
Assistant Secretary of State,
State Department,
Washington, D.C.

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
it is intended to apply the machinery to China in accordance
with the principle of giving assistance to China, which has
already been declared.
It is intended to tighten up the procedure mentioned
above without injury to friendly interests. It is proposed
to collect as much information as possible about the trust-
worthiness of the individual consignees so that exports may
be confined to those of which, so far as may be judged, the
potential advantages to free China are likely to outweigh the
danger of leakage to Japun. In particular, it is intended to
take advantage of the advice of friendly banks in Shanghai
who are being asked to avoid (where possible in conformity
with the policy of U.S. banks) any finuncial transactions
likely to benefit Japan. I. the interia period until the
necessary administration machinery cun be organized, we pro-
pose that mpire Governnents will issue licenses without
reference in cases Where the danger of leakage to Japan does
not seem to be over-riding and w ere uelay must be avoided in
oräer to prevent trade beine brougnt to a standstill.
In ad ition to the consignee control on the lines
nentioned above, it is suggested thit it may be desirable to
super-impose quantitative control of exports of articular
comnouities. race in such oods is to ue separately ex-
amined in the light of te quantities cenerally required by
reliable consignees, and t eir value to Tepan if they were
seized.
the ar a. ements nentioned in this letter do not
apply to petroleum products.
I anm sending a copy of this letter to ir. cochran
for nis information.
Yours sincerely,
R. J. Stopford

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.99)
"NIL" LIST FOR CHINA
1.
Oil seeds and vegetable oils.
2.
Fish and fish liver oils and whale oil.
3.
Tallow.
4.
Acid oils and Fatty acids.
5.
Sausage casings.
6.
Animal fodder of all kinds including all oil cake.
7.
Iron and steel and iron, steel and other metal scrap.
8.
All non-ferrous ores and metals, other than
manufactures and excluding lead and zinc and all
ferro-alloys incluuing special alloy steels.
9.
Infusorial and diatimacious earth; monazite sand
and ilmenite.
10.
Mica, other than manuractures.
11.
Diamonds.
12.
Raw asbestos, other than manufactures.
13.
Raw graphite, other than manufactures.
14.
Cryolite ana Iluorspar.
15.
thyl alcohol nd tetra-ethyl-lead.
16.
senzol, toluol, phenol.
17.
Raw hemp ana kapok, ramie and phormium.
18.
Hides, skins ana leather.
19.
Raw una serap rubber.
20.
Rubber tyres nd tubes, Whether solid or pneumatic,
for cars, bicycles nd rick-shaws.
21.
Glycerine.
22.
Molasses.
23.
Industrial alcohol.
24.
Tin-plete including wasters and scrap.
25.
Ioaine, crude and resublimed.
26.
Carbon black.
27.
Dall bearings.
28.
abrasives, natural and artificial and grinding
wheels.
Assistant Secretary
of State
SEP3 1941
MR. ACHESON

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.97)
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SEP 5 1941
MURNBECK
WASHINGTON, D.C.,
SEP 4 1941
81941
August 30th, 1941.
ARTMENT OF STATE
Assistant Secretary3
ca
of State
SAFE HAND
SECRET
SEP 3 1941
SEP 9- Dd Mr. Acheson,
MR. ACHESON
 In Mr. Hall's absence I am writing to give you
upon our policy with regard to China.
DCR
It has been decided that to prevent the Japanese
benefiting from our exports to occupied China, it is
894.24/1605
necessary to control by licensing all exports to China
except those going via the Burma Road. To avoid injury
to legitimate Chinese interests pending the making of
detailed arrangements, it is intended to grant licenses
freely within the limits of normal trade for exports other
than -
(a) those not available for supply reasons
894.
(b) those contained in the annexed list which
has been called the "Nil List"
whit of cotion?
(c) any specific consignments where there are
strong reasons for refusing on grounds of
economic warfare.
Action on the above lines is being taken forthwith
by the United Kingdom and the Colonies. India, Burma and
the Dominions are being invited to take similar action.
The Government of Hong Kong, however, is being given some
PS/MW
latitude in the application of the abovementioned policy.
It will be appreciated that although the same export
licensing machinery is being used both for China and Japan
u
it is intended to apply the machinery to China in acoerd-
ance with the principle of giving assistance to China?
idential File
which has already been declared.
9
It
1941
Mr. Dean Acheson,
Assistant Secretary of State,
State Department,
Washington, D.C.

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
It is intended to tighten up the procedure mentioned
abovg without injury to friendly interests. It is pro-
poses to collect as much information as possible about
the trustworthiness of the individual consignees so that
exports may be confined to those of which, so far as may
be judged, the potential advantages to free China are
likely to outweigh the danger of leakage to Japan. In
particular, it is intended to take advantage of the
advice of friendly banks in Shanghai who are being asked
to avoid (where possible in conformity with the polioy of
U.S. banks) any financial transactions likely to benefit.
Japan. In the interim period until the necessary admin-
istration machinery can be organized, we propose that
Empire Governments will issue licenses without reference
in cases where the danger of leakage to Japan does not
seem to be over-riding and where delay must be avoided in
order to prevent trade being brought to a standstill.
In addition to the consignee control on the lines
mentioned above, it is suggested that it may be desirable
to super-impose quantitative control of exports of par-
ticular commodities. Trade in such goods is to be
separately examined in the light of the quantities generally
required by reliable consignees, and their value to Japan
if they were seized.
The arrangements mentioned in this letter do not apply
wett?
to petroleum products.
petrolcum
I am sending a copy of this letter to Mr. Cochran
for his information.
Yours sincerely,
R. J. STOPFORD

=== Page 174 === (confidence 1.00)
"NIL" LIST FOR CHINA
1.
Oil seeds and vegetable oils.
2.
Fish and fish liver oils and whale oil.
3.
Tallow.
4.
Acid oils and Fatty acids.
5.
Sausage casings.
6.
Animal fodder of all kinds including all oil cake.
7.
Iron and steel and iron, steel and other metal scrap.
8.
All non-ferrous ores and metals, other than
manufactures and excluding lead and zinc and all
ferro-alloys including special alloy steels.
9.
Infusorial and diatimacious earth; monazite sand
and ilmenite.
10.
Mica, other than manufactures.
11.
Diamonds.
12.
Raw asbestos, other than manufactures.
13.
Raw graphite, other than manufactures.
14.
Cryolite and fluorspar.
15.
Ethyl alcohol andtetra-ethyl-lead.
16.
Benzol, toluol, phenol.
17.
Raw hemp and kapok, ramie and phormium.
18.
Hides, skins and leather.
19.
Raw and scrap rubber.
20.
Rubber tyres and tubes, whether solid or pneumatic,
for cars, bicycles and rick-shaws.
21.
Glycerine.
22.
Molasses.
23.
Industrial alcohol.
24.
Tin-plate including wasters and scrap.
25.
Iodine, crude and resublimed.
26.
Carbon black.
27.
Ball bearings.
28.
Abrasives, natural and artificial and grinding.
wheels.

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.97)
Assistant Seoretary?
of State
MR. ACHESON
MK. NUREbELr
EA
SEP 4=. 1941
BRITISH EMBASSY,
DEPA
EOEHEAVISER ON
WASHINGTON, D.C.,
INTERNATIONAL ECONMIC AFAIRS
August 30th, 1941.
SEP 1 0 1941 WF
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Division o
SAFE HAND
SECRET
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DCR
Dear Mr. Acheson,
In Mr. Hall's absence, I am writing to inform
894.24/1606
you that it has been decided in London that control
of exports from the British Empire to Japan will be
exercised by export licensing machinery and not by
financial machinery under the Freezing Order. If an
Export License is granted for a transaction, the
necessary financial licenses for the payments involved
will be granted more or less automatically. In
practice, trade will be confined to specially approved
transactions.
I am sending a copy of this letter to Mr. Cochran
1606
for his information.
894.
Yours sincerely,
R. J. STOPFORD
Confidential File
PS/MW
OCT 6 1941
FILED
Mr. Dean Acheson,
Assistant Secretary of State,
State Department,
Washington, D.C.

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.96)
Re0 120
1.C
CEIVED
BRITISH EMBASSY,
SEP 2 0 1941
SAFI HAND
WASHINGTON, D.C.,
Seent
August 30th, 1941.
Dear kr. Acheson,
In Mr. Hall's absence, I am writing to inform
you that it has been decided in Loncon that control of
exports from the British Empire to Japan will be exercised
by export licensing machinery and not by financial
machinery under the Freezing Order. If an Export Licanse
is granted for a transaction, the necessary financial
894.24/1606
licenses for the payments involved will be ranted more
or less automatically. In practice, trade will be
confined to specially approved transactions.
I am sending a copy of this letter to Mr.
Cochran for his information.
894.24
Yours sincerely,
R.J. 8hoford
0
S
/EHnfidential File
of Statek
Seen
SEP31941
MR. ACHSSON JJR
Mr. Dean Acheson,
Assistant Secretary of State,
SEP 2 0 1941
State Department,
FILED
Washington, D.C.

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.99)
MENT OF STATE
ON OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
August 22, 1941.
Please forward the attached
instruction via the Tokyo pouch
(closing today), in accordance
with the suggestion contained
in the final paragraph of the
underlying memorandum.
FE:Tenney:MJK

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
August 21, 1941
Under present procedure, the Department's
air mail instructions to Tokyo go via clipper
to Hong Kong, thence by open mail to Tokyo.
Arrangements for forwarding of commercial air
mail from Hong Kong are entirely up to the
postal authorities there.
Usually CR sends such instructions in one
envelope if there are several on hand, but it
does not hold up mailing individual instructions
specifically for that purpose.
FA has drafted a telegram to Tokyo (which
shoula reach FE today) asking for the Ambassa-
dor's comments or suggestions in regard to the
feasibility of extending the present courier
service (Tokyo - Shanghai - Peiping) to Manila,
by one of the following alternative methods:
(1) By using the same personnel as at
present, i.e., Army, Navy and Foreign Service
officers interchangeably; or
(2) by using professional couriers sent
out from the United States.
In as much as the proposed extension of the
present courier service may not be effected for
several weeks, even if travel facilities are
available,

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
Allable, and in view of the confidential
pharacter of such instructions as that under
reference, it would seem that it might be
advieable to send instructions of this character
in the Tokyo pouch, which goes by American
vessel to Shanghai and thence to Tokyo by
courier (if travel facilities are available).
The next Tokyo pouch, closing here Friday,
August 22, is scheduled to leave San Francisco
on the Ss President Monroe on August 29.
FE:Tenney:MHP

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.95)
RMAIL
Luguet 22, 1941
CONPIPNTIAL STAZE UE ONLY
2237
The Eonorable
Joseph C. Grew,
894.24/1607
American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
sir:
There is enolosed for your confidential information
a memorandum of a conversation whioh I had on August 18,
194l with the Ambassador of Chile in regard to the desire
of Japan to purohase 1odine held by a Chilean corporation.
PS/BH
Vory truly yours,
894.24
Cordall Hull
nelesure:
Senretary af State and
the Abassader of Chile.
CR
22

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.97)
PA
STANDARD-VACUUM OIL COMPANY
MR. HURNBECK
26 BROADWAY
A 13 1941
NEW YORK
G. S. WALDEN
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD
August 12th,1941.
RECEIVED
2
Mr. Alger Hiss,
RIVISIONOFRelations,
State Department,
Washington, D.C.
Dear Hr. Hiss:
Confirming telephone conversation this morning, the following
894.24/1608
is the exact wording of the telegram which I read to you:
"Following represents ist of telegren sent by
NI Government to Weshington regarding payment for
oil deliveries to Japan STOP If end in so far
export permits for crudeoil or products will be
granted immaterial whether applicrtion made by
Japanese buyer or oil company STCP Since Japanese
uilder belence in this country is sufficiently
large payment is to be handled as follows CUOTE
Oil compenies furnish statement to exchange control
of amount of dollars due STCP Japanese buyers then
894.24
pay equivalent in Indian cuilders in Batavia after
which exchange control take care of payment in
dollers et New York UgUOTE This procedure is
necessary in order to compel Japanese buyers to
replenish their uilder belence by exports to NI
before they can continue buyin in this country STOP
It is assumed that the oil companies are in agreement
with this arrengement beccuse it does not in fact
affect the present systen SToP As soon as situation
will be clarified advisebility of modifying present
exchange greement wit oil companies may be
considered SToP Suggest you let me have your reaction
to above. "
I vill look forward to hearing from you leter in the day.
Sincerely yours,
Swaesse
PS/MM
GSW:AIM

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.95)
PA/1
STANDARD-VACUUM OIL COMPANY
26 BROADWAY
NEW YORK
G. S. WALDEN
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD
August 12th,1941.
Mr. Alger Hiss,
Assistant to Adviser on Political Relations,
MR. HORNBLCR
State Department,
Washington, D.C.
CINS
Dear Mr. Hiss:
894.24/1609
In connection with my other letter of today,
we have since received the following telegran from the Netherlend
Indies:
"Mitsui Batavic advises they have applied for
exmort license but were told no enswer could
be given until Aucust 16th STOP Meanwhile
boat has been at lightship for past 36 hours
and recuested permission remoin there until
situation settled STCP Ven Karnebeek cabling
892.24
you relative method payments which suggest you
take into consideration before cgreeing this
and or future cargoes."
I will look forwerd to your advising me at
your convenience.
Sincerelr youre,
GSW:AIM
Swaede
S
/MM

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.94)
PA/H
Liese
mn. DURNBECK
AUG 20 1941
26 BROADWAY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
aN
NEWYORK
G. S. WALDEN
August 19th,1941.
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD
Personal
Mr. Alger Hiss,
Assistent to Dr. Hormbeck,
Adviser on Political Relations
894.24/1610
Far Eestern Affairs,
State Department,
Washin.ton, D.C.
Dear Hr. Hise:
For your informction, I am
enclosing a copy of the memorandun given to
894.2H
the Shell todey.
This message they
intend to send in code throurh the British
Consul.
Sincerely yours,
Wwacde
Enc.
GSW:AIK
PS/MM

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.85)
 .( 19,191)
GROREN NAS RASNIVED PRON VAN KARNNBERK RAPAVIA VIA TEE BOUEN THS
FORLOUING MESGASE QUOPE THX MRTNERLAED INBEES GOUEBNEN
NAS REGEEVED AN EXNLADUTIVE AND TECHNIGALLY VOREED GAEEE FEEN TEE
METERRLANDS MINISRER AT WASNIEGTON SETTIEO PORER EROUS
SPEOIFRRAPIONS OF CHUES OIL AED OF PETROLEON PRODUSRS. TEESE
SPEOZFTOATTOMS SEEN TO COSSTITUTE THE BASIS POR POSSILE EXPORES
FRON THE UNITED STATES TO JAPAN.
THE HEEKERLAEES GOVEERERNT
IS NOW DESIGNATING THOSE PRODUOTS, THE EXPORTATION OP WEICH PRON
THN YNDIES MAY EE ALLOWED IN THE FUFURE.
BEPORT OP GEUE OIL
FOT PERNITTED.
WITH EESPEOT TO QUANTITINS 1935-1936 AVMRASE
EXPORR TOTAL IS MEING UBED MUT PERGENTAGE UNINOWE. TEIS
IMPOMNATION ONFAINED UEOFFICIALLY FRON KELIABLE SOUNSE.
WILL
GOMTINUR TO KEEP YOU ADVISED OF ADDITIONAL DNVELOPNEETS .

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.94)
Co
Nederal Burean of Juuestigation
Auited States Department of Justice
F
DCA
SEP 20 1941
Fe
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
Fe
Honorable 
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
SEP25194
894.24/161
My dear Mr. Berle:
There is attached hereto a copy of the report
of Special Agent R. F. Cartwright, dated August 25, 1941,
at Seattle, Washington, in the matter entitled "H. Y.
Hanafusa, Neutrality Act", in which I thought you would
be interested.
Additional data concerning this matter will be
furnished you subsequently.
894.24
Sincerely yours,
FAG EASTERN AFFAINS
1941.
D. par tment of State
OCT 6 1941
COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
8044
FILED
OCT 2- 19
DIVISION OF
Enclosure
SEP19 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
PS/MM

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.93)
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
SKATTLE
FILE NO. 2-23
DATE WHEN MADE
PERIOD FOR
REPORT MADE BY
WHICH MADE
Sesttle, Washingten
8/25/41
8/5,6,23,19/41
R. F. CARTWRLIGHT
TME
CHARACTER OF CABE
H. Y. HANAFUSA
NEUTRALITY AOT
SYNOPSISOFFACTS:
Subjeet HANAFUSA has mde frequat afforts to
purahase mall quantities of high-speed toel bits
from warious hardware companies in Seattle.
-F-
Details:
AT SEATTLE, WASHINGTON
This investigation is predicated on the informtion
subeitted to this office by telophone on June 5, 194l by Mr.
R. O. HAUSE, Assistant alemmanager of Creagan and Company, 932
Pirst Street South, to the effect tlst a Japanese had inquired
as to the possibility of purchasing Momax Cobalt Tool Bits.
Mr. HaUsE stated that this Japanuse explained that he had bean
referred to Creagan's Harcdware Company by the Sahmabaoher Hard-
ware Company, where he had also made an effort to purshase the
bits. Mr. HAusk stated that the Japanese was advised that this
type of bit could not be obtained at the Creagan Hardware Company
asd he raferred same to the Crusible Steel Company, and thas the
Japamese indieated that he would attempt to purchase the bits
there.
Mr. D. R. MESLAKD, Sesttle Hardmare Company, 5O1 First
Jame 5, for the purpese of purehasdng same type of teol bit as
sheve measddmed, and he wee advisat by a alark of this store that
purahasadat the Campbell Hardmare Company.
DO NOT WRITE IN THEE SPACES

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.95)
At he rhem Cit Buee, Mr. JO GN
advised of idemtiesl infermatiem as that furnished by the Sesttle
Credit Burmau.
At the King County Sheriff's Office, Identifieation
Buremu, Mr. A. C. ROSEMFKLDT stated that his files contain me
referencs to the smbjest.
At the Identifisstion Offise of the Seattle Pelice
Department the agent could loeete no raference to subject HAWAFUSA
in their crimmal files.
Previous referemees tc mubjest in the files of the
Seattle Field Division indicate that HaNarUSa is a member of the
Japanese Chamber of Commeree of Seattle, Washington and that there
is information to the effest that he has mede various trips to
and from Japan in the pest.
It is noted that information of a similar nature has
come to the attention of local Customs officials of late, inei-
cating that artiales prohibited by the Noutrality Act frem
shipment to foreign countries have been carried from this country
to Japem by memms ef imeludieg them in persenal luggage ef travelers.
A lead is sccordingly bedng set cut fer this affies to obtain frem
the Buresu of Immigration and Naturalimation Sarviee any inferme-
tion in their pessession regarding pessible future tripe of
BANAFUSA.
PENDING

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.96)
BPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
August 4, 1941
There is attached a document
which Mr. Acheson sent to me, ap-
parently left with him by Mr. Hall,
concerning exports from Malaya to
Japan. I presume it is a matter
which you are working on; or if
someone else 1s charged with this
responsibility in Co, would you eend
DH.
AU
D. His8
DEPART

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.98)
Exports from Malaya to Japan
According to our latest information the following
is the position:
(a) No exports permitted - Tin, Rubber
(b) Commodities under partial embargo - Manganese:
now restricted to about 60% of normal.
894.24/
A further cut of 50% in the quota is
under consideration.
Bauxite: now restricted to normal trade.
Reduction of 50% of normal trade is under
consideration.
Iron Ore: a quota of 1,900,000 tons has
been established but port restrictions
on loading are expected to result in a
2.
50% cut.
Assistent Soorotary
of State
AUG2-1941
S
2nd August. 1941
/SBH
MR. ACHESON
JSD/vm
00T:18 1941

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.98)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Desire of United Kingdom Treasury to hamper
transactions which might benefit the Japanese.
Infooms that United Kingdom Treasury is com-
piling list of undesirable European consignees, and
quotes message which is being sent through
Hall-Patch to the British banks operating
in China with instructions accordingly.
1b
894.24/1613
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See Tel. #366,.2.pm
(Despatoh, telegram, instructlon, letter, etc.)
From
Dated.Sept._17,1941
Hong-Kong-Southard
To--
File No.
893.51/7303
PS/SBH
U. S. GOVENNENT PRINTING OFFICE 1-1540

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.96)
MK. HUNNBECK
DEPARTMENT OF STATE: SEP 8- 1941
PAN
DATE: August 21, 1941.
summct: Exports of Petroloum from N. E.I. to Japan.
CONTRO
OF
PARTICIPANTS:
Standrd-Vacuum Oil Company,
AUG 3 0 194
Mr. Alger Hiss.
UEP
Assistunt SecretalfENT
COPIES TO:
Division of
834.24/161
1 Stato
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
AU2 1941
400221941
MR. AUHESON
1-1400
Several days ago Mr. Walden told me that the Shell
4
Company wished to send a telegram to their representatives
894.24
in Japan stating that the company would not be willing to
sell additional supplies of petroleum to Japan until the
company's blooked balances in Japan were released. [See
paragraph number three of my memorandum of August 1l
addressed to Mr. Hornbeck and Mr. Acheson.] At that time
PS/
I had remarked to Mr. Walden that I assumed that the Shell
Company would wish to keep the British Embassy informed of
/SBH
any steps it proposed to take, just as Mr. Walden was
OCT 1 8 1941
keeping this Department informed of action contemplated by
the Standard-Vacuum Company.
Today

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
Today Mr. Walden called from New York to say that
the Shell Company had now cleared its telegram with the
British Embassy and that Mr. Noel Hall had in turn
cleared the sending of the telegram with Mr. Acheson.
Mr. Walden read to me a copy of the proposed Shell tele-
gram which in substance read as follows:
The Shell Company had always considered
the remittance terms of the Japanese Govern-
ment oppressive but it had no alternative if
it wished to make sales at all. However, under
present conditions the Shell Company is not
willing to make further sales until the frozen
balances have been liquidated and provision
made for cash payment. If satisfactory payment
arrangements were agreed to, the Shell Company
thought that it could make shipments of petroleum
products available.
Mr. Walden said that in view of the Shell Company's
aotion, his own company would wish to take a similar
position as a business matter and that since Mr. Acheson
had indicated his approval of the Shell arrangment,
Mr. Walden assumed that there was no objection on the
part of this Government to similar action by the Standard-
Vacuum Company. [Mr. Walden's letter to me of August 21,
>not
which is attached, indicates the total amount of frozen
clian
anter inform
funds which Standard-Vacuum has in Japan. It is my under-
esten induate
totop is ab
standing that this sum is smaller than the amount of the
2,000,00
Shell's frozen balance due to the fact that Shell has had
to

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
to leave its profits frozen in Japan for several years
past, whereas the Standard-Vacuum balances represents
the full amount of payment for recent shipments only.]
I told Mr. Walden that I had not yet heard from
Mr. Acheson any account of the latter's talk with
Mr. Noel Hafl but that I would get in touch with
Mr. Acheson and call Mr. Walden back.
Subsequently, I was informed by Mr. Acheson that
Mr. Noel Hall had told him of the proposed position of
the Shell Company, that he had understood that this
position represented the positon of the British Govern-
ment which the Shell Company had been told to follow and
that he had not understood that Mr. Noel Hall was sub-
mitting anything for our approval. He said that he had
indicated to Mr. Noel Hall that insistence upon cash
payments for such future deliveries as might be permitted
and liquidation of past balances seemed to be good business
practice. Mr. Acheson did not recall that Mr. Hall had
referred to the last sentence of the proposed Shell message
with reference to possible future aupplies. Mr. Acheson
said that in so far as the Shell message represented the
company n sales policy, he saw no reason for any govern-
mental objection and that similarly there would be no reason
to object to Standard-Vacuum adopting the same kind of policy.
I thereupon

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.99)
-4
I thereupon called Mr. Walden and informed him of
the foregoing. He said that he thought there was no
misunderstanding about the matter, and that both the
Shell's message and a similar message which he proposed
to send to his representatives in Japan related purely
to the companies' sales policies. He went on to say
that the Shell position and the position which his own
company proposed to take meant clearly that as a private
matter they would not sell oil even if permitted to do
so by the Netherlands authorities unless their payment
terms were met. On the other hand, the implication that
they would be willing to continue deliveries if such terms
were met was of course understood to mean sales only of
such products and in such quantities as the Netherlands
authorities might permit.
The next to last message quoted in Mr. Walden's attached
letter of August 21 constitutes his instruction to his
representatives in Yokohama to take the same position as to
payments as the Shell Company.
Mr. Walden referred again to the information which I
had communicated to him as to the Department's position on
August 15 [see my memorandum of conversation with him of
that date] and said that he assumed that we had no objeotion
to his company now applying for licenses to export Diesel oil
under

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.97)
-5
under the normal quota business, such Diesel oil not
being among the items the export of which is prohibited
from the United States. I repeated to Mr. Walden the
substance of the information communicated to him on
this point on August 15 [see paragraph number three of
memorandum last referred to]. This matter is referred
to in the paragraph beginning at the bottom of the first
page and continued at the top of the second page of
Mr. Walden's letter of August 21 here attached.
a
PA/H:AH1sB:BGT

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.96)
ADVISER
MA NURIBELT
AUG 22 1941
DErAk
26 BROADWAY
1941
NEW YORK
G. S. WALDEN
August 21st,1941.
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD
AUG 2 2 1941
Mr. Alger Hiss,
Cockn'd. by leter
Issistant to Dr. Hornbeck,
Aasistant, Secretary
PA/H-BTO
Adviser on Political Relations
of.State.
Far Eastern Affairs,
AAUG21941
State Department,
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Hiss :
Under date of Au ust l2th I wrote you end quoted a telegrem
received from the Wetherlends Indies giving the Netherlands Indies' Government
894.24/1615
view as to method of payment to be followed in exports of petroleun products from
Under date of Au ust 1 th, we received the
the Netherlends Indies to Jopen.
following telegram fron the Indies:
"Exchenge Control request we aavise then v lue of products
emanatin fron nPk delivered our interests Jepen for which
peyment has not yet been trenomitted New Yort: Snop They Cesire
take this into full account end te blocll that emount tere until
894.24
you receive payment please civice."
to which we replied os follows:
"GW165 TP unrenitted shipments besed T03 velue your invoices to
Stanvac 0367.697. based on F0B Stanvee inveices to Yokohame $397,069
STOP The PoS inveice velue if b sed on the Batavie contract would
be $475,193 STOP
Amount frozen Jepen is 829, 801 based on
Yokohame's remittunce formule of remittin net r alizations which
include FOB frei ht insurance end other items es well es profit if
eny STOP
 To each of above should be added 140.315 P03 value diesel
shipped by Stanvac from Teraitan SHCP Keep us informed STOP We
understend Friends requesting Yokohane remit all outstendings as
action this connection will have besring on further shi ments quota
business and we cre sendin- sinilar request."
We also receivec fron our Yolohame office under dete of August
PS/SBH
21st the followin: message:
"Latest advice indiceting inability obtaining imuediate export permit
from MEI for corgo crude planning board have eoproached RSP regarding
availability supplfes diesel with idea of loading TEIYo against
Batavia agreement ans have esked for cur understending STOP
C
"Fuel Bureau concerned over delay re ly our 51 and requesting immediatle
answer regarding prospects early loading in as much as vessels still held
pending orders."
In connection with the first paragraph of this messege, apparently the Wetherlands

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
August 21st,1941.
Teo have turned down the Japanese applicetion for a permit to load a cargo of
nde oil from our refinery, and the Japanese are now endeavoring to see whether this
anker which has been lying off the coast of Sumatra for several days, might be loaded
ith diesel oil against the Batavia agreement.
The second part of the message
rerers to tanker ZUIYO MARU which has been lying off of Formosa since the end of
July and was scheduled to load quota diesel oil our account for Japan. This diesel
oil does not exceed the quality covered by the specifications which you sen& me. In
view of your advices on the 'phone today, we have replied to Tokohama as follows:
"Your sixtytwo first part will answer soonest SToP Last part
we are applying for license and will advise soonest but as
re hoeace
preliminary to further development our views fully coincide with
imlees frogen.
London's message 957 Ely and you should anproach problem in
Zalances liquidated//
conjunction with Friends along similar lines."
caslipaid/n/fulue
In connection with the ZUIYO MARU we have also sent the following telegram
to the Netherlands Indies:
"641MA Apply NEI Authorities for license necessary to make ZUIYO
shipment STOP Advise us immediately if license approved but
do not issue any loading instructions until we have setisfactorily
cleared up method of peyment."
settled.
Sincerely yours,
GSW:AIM
Stwarde

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.88)
Angust 22, 1941.
Bear Xr. Waldem:
.W.894.24/1615
I eekmewledge with thanks the ressipt of your
letter of Angust 2l in whieh you set forth the texts
ef varioms telegrame whioh we have disoussed over the
teleppome during she past few days.
simeerely yours,
ALGER HISS
9
Mor. Seerge S. Walden,
S
Ghairmen of the Board,
S
Stamdard-Vaowam Oil Gempany.
工
26 Broadway.
Now Yesk, Now Yosk.
PA/BIN1GSIDT

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.97)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECTReported negotiations between the French and
Japanese Governments for the shipment of
sugar from Reunion to Japan.
Requests investigation be made of -.
1b
894.24/1615A
For the original paper from which reference is taken
SeeTel. #695, 7.pm
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)
From
Dated ..._.Sept..13,1941
France(Vichy)
To
File No.
811.20 Dafense(M)/3247a
U. S. G0VRNNT PRINTING OPPICE 1--1560
PS/SE
1203
男

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.97)
Jile
oy to lickey
BRITISH EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
OFICE OF THE AGVISER ON
REOEIVED
Aughst 27th, 1941
AUG 28 1941
We have received a telegram from La Paz which
is of some interest. A paraphrase follows:-
894.24/1617
Japanese here seem to think that Japanese sailings
will cease from Chilean ports after September 15th.
Banco Minero state that outstanding Japanese
contracts for minerals from Bolivia consist of,
1000 tons antimony
650
copper
525
1
lead
894.24
235
n
wolfram.
However, owing to difficulties on the railways
these minerals may not reach port before September 15th, in
which case the Japanese will not take delivery.
The Japanese have been paying $2.30 for
antimony against U.S. offers of $1.50.
Yours sincerely,
Armani
CEP19 1941
FILED
PS/SBH
Mr. John W. Auchincloss,
U. S. Department of State, Room 362,
Washington, D.C.

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.98)
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
INTERNATIONAL ECONGMIC FFAIRS
SEP 1 9 1941
BRITISH EMBASSY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECEIVED
WASHINGTON
By Safe Hand.
September 12th, 1941
!941 SEP 19
My dear Finletter,
You will nedbuhatTtaNSletter I recently wrote to you
about the endeavouraN6f?Eh@RDSanese to borrow peso funds from
the German authorities in Buenos Aires for an equivalent of
7 million yen, in order to make part payment for oxhides bought
in the Argentine.
8
We have now had a most interesting telegram from
6
Santiago of which I am not sending you a copy because it is
badly drafted and couched in unnecessary complicated technical
4
jargon.
Put into plain language the telegram advises us that
4
it was the habit of sellers of mineral products on the entire
West Coast of South America, and prior to the United States
freezing order, to sell against irrevocable U.S. dollar letters
9
of credit before agreeing to put their signature to the indiv-
8
idual contracts of sale for metals. The credits were handled
by the Bank of Chile in Chile, the Banco Italiano in Peru, and
in Bolivia by the Bank of Brazil, operating on behalf of the
Yokohuma Specie Bank.
While the transaction was thus financed in U.S.
dollars, and thst was the currency for cll mineral sales to
Japan, it so happened that instead of payment under the
irrevocable letter of credit being made in dollars, payment
was made in local currency at a guaranteed rate of exchange.
This practice resulted in there being in effect two types of
P
dollar, the U.S. dollar "nd the Japanese dollar, the latter
S
standing at about a 50% discount over the former.
S
Now for the point of this story. The U.S. freezing
B
order has had the curious consequence of creating a ney currency
unit for metal transactions with the Japanese on the fest Coast,
and instead of irrevocable U.S. dollar letters of credYt bing
opened, irrevocable yen letters of credit are now being op ed,
19
payment/
Mr. T. K. Finletter,
Special Assistant to the Secretary,
U.S. Department of State, Room 362,
Washington, D.C.

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.97)
payment again being made in local currency at a guaranteed
rate against the yen.
The foregoing is mainly of academic interest but
I pass it on to you because it occurs to me the argument may
one day be advanced that since the U.S. freezing order has gone
into effect it is no longer necessary to try and prevent the
Japanese from securing some of the available minerals on the
West Cost of South America. Of course the fact that our
and your supply requirements of these metals are now so great
will serve as the main rebuttal of such an argument, but it
occurs to me that you might be interested to be able to add
the foregoing as well.
Stopford will let Cochran at the Treasury know
about this also.
Yours sincerely,
Ammy Mannij
1.0!

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
 21, 1941.
MRHUKNBECK
J.W.
PMH
AUG25 1941
R.O.M.
Reference Intelligence Report,
Serial 71, no. 602-1000, Naval Attache,
Tokyo, June 27, 1941.
After study of the oil situation
in Japan the American Waval Attache
894.24
at Tokyo makes the following estimates:
Present annual consumption is
5 million tons of crude oil and 1 million
tons of gasoline.
Total oil stocks in Japan are
10 million tons.
Naval storage capacity exceeds
3 million tons.
cc
FT:COVIIle:NHS

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.93)
ENTIAL
ENCEREPORT
10
SEP191941
M
graph Index Guide No.
DNVISION OF
Naval Attacl
Date
From
(Ship, fleet, unit, district, offlos, station, or person)
Reference
(Directive, correspondence, previous related report, etc. if applicable)
Various
Evaluation
Source
(As reliable, doubtful, unveri
(As official, personal observation, publications, press, conversation with-identify
Japan
citivs
Towns - Coast Cities & Towns - Logisties
Subject
(Nation reported on)
(Main title as per index guide)
(Subtitles)
(Make separate report for each title)
pot ontaining substance succinctly stated; include important facts, pames pes, dates, etc.)
Baiky.-(Here enter caraful
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
Dirision of
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
CONFIDENTIAL
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1941
SEP 5 194
JAPANESE NAVAL OIL STORAGE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.2
An estimate of Japenese Naval Oil Storage capacity.
It is believed that total naval capacity is more than
3,330,000 tons.
Total oil stooks in Japan are variously estimated from
6,000,000 tons to 10,786,000 tons. The 1atter figure 1s con-4
sidered to be more nearly correct.
Present annual onaumption according to a reliable source
1s 5,000,000 tons of crude oil and 940,000 tons of gasoline.
6
SEP171941
H H Smith-Hutton
SEBLASSIFIED
652 Sec. 3(E) cnd 50
Lieut-Comdr
DEPARTMENT
Naval Attaohé
QSD lotter. May 3. 18
0
S
19
S
3
H
Rproduction of this material in any
form is not auiliorized except by specific
bproval of ihe Secretary of the Navy
DNI(17); C1noPAC(1); C1nCAF(1); Com 16(2); ANA/Shanghai()
CONFIDENTIAL
Distribution By Originator
M/A Tokyo(I): Fiio (1)
show routing not provided for on this form, use biank boxes.
Op-16-1
R-1,P-2,F-3,R-4,F-5,F-6,R-7,F-8,B-3,B-4,P-8
A-B-C-D-EV/X-Z
Go2
Board
Sec. Nav.
Invnts.
OS.
M.
Nav.
Ord.
Y.&D.
C.&R.
Bamg.
S.&A.
M.&S.
u.s.b.c.
C. in C.
U.S.
Bat. Fer.
Com.
Scs. Fer.
Com.
C. in C.
A.F.
P.A
9
Attach6 at
Op-to11
Op-13
Op-14
Op.-21
0p-22
06/23
020
Civil
10—18402

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.99)
NFIDENTIAL
rt No. 71
600 - Cities and towns
Japan
602 - Coast Cities and towns
27 June 1941
1000 - Logistics
GEGLAESIFED
CONFIDENTIAL
Q. 11652. Sec. 3(E) and S(D)
JAPANESE NAVAL OIL STORAGE
The following estimates of Japanese Naval Oil Storage
facilities are submitted. The estimates have been prepared
after considerable research and after consulting with the
British Naval Attache in Tokyo and are believed to be reasonably
accurate. For comparison, past estimates are included, the
figures being placed in parenthesis.
It is reliably reported that all naval oil tankage is kept
filled to capacity, and therefore, the Japanese have at the
very minimum the amounts which are indicated:
Estimated Total
Capacity
Location and Details
BAKO
40,000 tons ( 27,000)
3 tanks of 3000 tons
each.
1 tank of 18,000 tons
CHINKAI
90,000 " ( 9,000)
8 tanks of 10,000 and
8,000 tons capacity.
More tanks believed
to be constructed on
west of station.
KURE
1,000,000 "
(632,000)
20 tanks of 10,000
tons each at Tobi-
watase.
Tanks at Kanakawa.
Tanks at Akizaki
24 or more tanks in
front of the naval
barracks. 8 small
tanks at north of
Yoshiura Bay. Large
underground storage at
north end of Yoshiura
Bay. L&rge underground
storage in hill. 3
tanks east end of tun-
nel through hill.
MAIZURU
400,000
(215,000)
): 18 tanks of 7,000 tons
each at OBA. 3 tanks
total 9,000 tons at
Nishiouramura. Large
underground storage on
Hebishima Island.
OMINATO
120,000 " ( 91,000)
12 tanks of 7,000 tons
each on north end of
pine grove fronting
the harbour.
PORT ARTHUR
30,000 " ( 21,000)
5 tanks east of coal
storage on south
side of harbor.
Report No. 71-41
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
No. 71
/2/
Estimated Total
Capacity
Location and Details
SASEBO
400,000 tons( 250,000) 6 tanks of 10,000
tons each on west
side of harbor.
Further groups of
tanks to the south
along the coast.
Underground storage
at Akazaki.
TOKUYAMA
750,000 " (669,000)
18-20 tanks of
10,000 tons each at
Nakiri. 48 tanks
at Oil Depot, total
capacity 326,000
tons. 30 underground
tanks on Island of
Senjima near monu-
ment to sunken war-
ship KAWACHI.
YOKOSUKA
500,000 " (201,000)
7 or more tanks
immediately west of
Hakozaki, 4 tanks
immediately south
of Yokosuka railway
station. 3 tanks at
Nagazakihama.
Underground storage
at Hakozaki.
In addition to the above, naval fuel oil and gasoline in
unknown quantities are stored at the following places:
SHUMUSHU
(Chishima)
OTOMARI
(Karafuto)
AKKESHI
(Hokkaido)
WAKKANAI
(Hokkaido)
TOBA
(Mie Prefecture)
OSHIMA
(near Sasebo)
KAGOSHIMA
(Kagoshima Prefecture)
SASHIKI
FUTAMI
(Chichijima)
TRUK
PONAPE
JALUIT
HAINAN ISLAND
CHINNANPO (Chosen)
TAKESHIKI (
EIKS
11
Total stocks on hand in Japan are variously estimated. A
reliable Dutch source, in close touch with tne Japanese estimates
crude oil in storage to be 6,000,000 tons, but admits that this
may be an under-estimate. The British estimate is 10,786,000
tons as of December 1940. It is probable that the figure 10,000,-
oo0 would be reasonably accurate. Present &nnual consumption,
according to the Dutch is approximately 5,O00,000 tons of orude
oil and 940,000 tons of gasoline.
H H Smith-Hutton,
CONFIDENTIAL
Lieut-Comdr., U.S/N.,
Naval Attaché

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.98)
By Safe Hand
BRITISH EMBASSY
WASHINGTON, D. C.
SEP 1 0 1941
September 8, 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
My dear Mr. Auchinclos
08180-24.41
I think perhaps you may like to have the information given
below, which we have received mgaraing shipments of Mercury to
Japan from Chile. These shipments are, of course, small in com-
894.24/1620
parison with former Mexican shipments but in view of the present
negotiations, I think you may be interested to have the details:
April 7
Kimikawa Maru (ex Valparaiso
422 kgs.
From Hoh to order, Yokohama
May 6
Sakito Maru (ex Valparaiso)
328 kgs.
From Hoh to order, Yokohama
August 8
Rakuyo Maru (ex Valparaiso)
160 kgs.
From Lamas to Mitsubishi,Osaka
August 8
Rakuyo Maru (ex valparaiso) 1,075 kgs.
From mitsubishi to order,
Yokohama
August 18
Kunikawa Maru (ex valparaiso) 1,500 kgs.
From Itoh to order, Yokohama
Yours sincerely,
MMais Ada
R. Reid-Adam
Mr. John W. Auchincloss
PS/MCS
Room 362, United States Department of State
SEP 24 1941
Washington, D. C.
FILHD

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.97)
WW
W
SILK KING STUDIOS
PROFESSIOND·LARFEST·DISTRISUTORS
H. R. RICE, MANAGER.
25 SHEEHAN AVENUE
• IN REPLY PLEASE REFER TO
CINCINNATI, OHIO
Sept 24, 1941
FAn EASTE AFFAIRS
andd
The honorable Cordell Hull,
1941
Secretary of State,
Washington, D.C.
Octobe
Departmert of State
Dear Sir:
In following local news reports I notice that oil shipments are being made to
Japan by Mexico and South American countries. I further understand that this
action has been carried on without objections from the United States.
In view of our policy of cutting off complete trade relations with Japan,
it seems to me that the above mentioned transactions are unfair to the Amerioan
businessman depending upon Japan for non-combat materials. If allowing this
oil to be shipped to Japan is our way of easing Japanese differences, I feel
that American concerns should also be considered.
There are many items of Japanese manufacture that are not of a military nature.
Due to present relations, these are not being shipped. While I am lo0% American,
a true Demoorat and in full accord with your actions in behalf of our cauntry,
I do feel that the many small business houses that depend upon Japanese goods
should be given every consideration.
In our own oase, we have merchandise ordered late last year that is being held
in Japanese ports. We have cash deposits involved with the balance being covered
by American importers. Restrictions against its delivery is not freczing any
Japanese capital as they have already received their payment. We therefore are
foroed to suffer due to a ruling of our own making.
OCT 1 8 1941
I understand that you are scheduled to meet soon with special representatives
coming to the United States from Jepan via Mexico. Regardless of the outoome
of your meeting with them and the actions that follow, I know that all businessmen
join with me in backing you lo0%. However, I am writing you to express my
personal feelings in hopes that you will give us every consideration.
I realize that these are trying times and that you are doing everything within
your power to close that gap now existing between our two nations. My hope
is that you are successful in your future undertakings.
Harold R Rice

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.94)
October 16, 1941
894.24/1
My dear Mr. Rioe:
The reeeipt is aoxnowledged of your letter of
September 24, 194l in regard to certain phanes of rela-
62
tions between the inited  tites and Japan.
The views erpreased in your letter have been given
oareful consideration and yur courtesy in bringing them
to our attontion and your ourdial expresslon of support
are very muoh appreciated.
The Departmant is wol! aware )f the dif loilties
whloh are being oxperionood by Amerioan firms carrying
on business with the Far ast. You :way be assured that
the De artaunt is  ivin. this attor olosn attention
with a view to a forain such a alstanoe and protaotion
S
to Anerioan Intsrosts as ay be praotioable and that our
/MC
diplomatie
S
Hr. Harold R. Rioe,
Maneror.1lk1tud1os
2:hoohan Avonuo,
Cinoinnati, Onio.

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.94)
6.A
EA

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.92)
wearh
/OFRE LF TIE ADUDER IN
  AFFAS
BRITISH MBASSY
20 1941 NF
WASHINGTON
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Rmomrvmber17th, 1941
TRFE
SEF2°.41
DIVIBION OF
Dear Finletter,
I think you will be interested to learn that
894.
I hear from a source which I would be grateful if you
would trent s secret and confidential th:t on September
4th the Mitsui, Buenos Aires, received instructions
from Japan to buy four and a half million pounds weight
.24/1622
of Argentine wool clip. The first shipment is to be
within the first fifteen days of November - cargo space
is to be provided.
Attempts to obtain confirmation cf the above
in the local m rket in Boston have not proved or
disproved the story.
Yours sincerely,
Armani
194元
SEP 2 3 1941
Mr. T. 4. Finletter,
Special Assistant to the Secretary,
PS/MC
U.S. Department of State, Room 362,
Washington, D.C.
S

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.96)
BY SAFE HAND
BRITISH EMBASSY
REOLIVED
SEF23:141
WASHINGTON,
X5
ADVISER ON
September 17, 1941
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
Most Confidential
SEP 1 9 19
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Dear Finletter,
a-42-41
894.24/1623
The Ministry of Economic Warfare informs us that they
received information ohat on Septenver 3, MITSUBISHI informed their
Buenos Aires branch that they had been enquiring in Santiago for l0o0
tons of TARAPACA POTASSIUM CHLORIDE but had learned that the Chilean
Government had informally asked producers to reserve their future
output for South America. MITSUBISHI therefore suggested that their
Buenos Aires office should buy from Chile for shipment to China or
Japan.
Our Ambassador at Santiago has been instructed to take
a suitable opportunity of suggesting to the Chilean Government that
they satisfy themselves that exports to other South American countries
are not for re-exportation.
The Ministry of conomic Warfare ask us to make it clear
ihat the source from which this information is derived, is most
delicate, and should on no account, be compromised. I hope, therefore,
that you will be able to treal this inrormation as most confiaential.
89424
Yours sincerely,
Ammani
1622
T. K. Finletter, Esq.,
SEP 2 3 1941
Special Assist nt to the Secretury
FILED
PS 'MCS
Room 362, Uni ted States Department of State
ashington, D. C.

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.95)
WILLKAM
of
PITTIBURCH
1.
Statler Operated
Department of State
Jamuary 2, 1941
ack'd
Rebruary 14, 1941
Dear Mr. President:
I take the liberty of calling your attention to the
very unfortunate fact that owing to the failure to place an
embargo upon Japanese silk thereby contimuing to supply and
894.24/1624
strengthen them with upwards of one hundred million dollars
annually; wherewith to eventually fight us.
Aside from the fact that with the great Rayon produo-
tion of this country and other synthetic silks we do not need
Japanese silks, upon which incidentally not one penny of duty
is paid.
You have promulgated the thought that unnecessary
luxuries will temporarily have to be elimimated in order to
more adequately take care of our national defense; surely
silk comes under this category and might be a nominally fitting
reason to place a total embargo upen it.
with great esteem,
Faithfully
Jerale ntomell
Gerald M. Fennell
FEB141941
FILHD
Henerable Franklin D. Roosevelt
The White House
Washington, D. C.
PS/MM
STAY HOtl STAT

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.94)
Statler Operated
Miss Thempeens
arm something about the fimaneial besker of Va
was premeter, and I think president.
Se many million dellars were lest by the English and Frensh investers that
of resent years his prineiple aotivity has been selling the Mexiemn sil
I have me doubt but what he has been in clese touch with them that Mr. Marah
brags about fer a mumber of years.
Mardly I weuld say a fitting peace emissary between Great Britain and Germamy
at least se far as England is concerned.
I famey the sme could give you the history of the Grusaders.
I semeur with you that the Peace Advecasy of Senater Wheeler or Yerme
Very sincerely yours
Gerald M. Fennell
after your marriage.
AYATLER BTON BUFFALO CLEVELANDDETROIT ST.LOUIS NEW YORK H 

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.94)
TODAY and TOMORROW
-By Walter Lippmann-
THE U. S. A. AND THE TRIPLE AXIS
Mediterranean but on the Atiam
tie ecean. Simultaneously, be ne
om the meaning and conse-
mess of the poßcy of support-
Mone with
Spanisk frentier which dan ever
outoome of all this là still very
entered imte
uncertain but what Is net un-
an agrooment
certain is that a Masl incureion
about naval
into Spain and Portugal would
bases and the
also bring the Axis to the At-
British Seet
lantic cosan and weuld raise at
walch in effeet
once the grave question of the
eatablisheda
control of the Asores, the Cana-
jeint naval
ries, the Cape Verde Islands-the
contrel in the
strategic stepping-stenes in mid-
westerm Atlan-
Atlantic from Durepe to the
tie. On this
Western Hemisphere. Finally.
unneutrad ao-
Hitler dropped a few stray bombe
tion there was
on neutral Ireland fust as a re
me efficial pro-
minder perhaps that Ireland was
test in Berlin
Walter Lippmann
already well within reach not
and Rome; en the contrary, there
only of his submarines but of
were even newapaper articles
his air force.
professing admiration for our
Thus the signing of the pact of
cold realiam in looking after our
the triple Axis on Beptember 27
interests. Yet only a few weeks
has been followed by a series ef
ago, when there were rumors
military movements-some ees-
that the United States might
siderable and some feints and
requisition idle merchant ships
threats-which are clearly related
ted up in American harbora,
to the avowed purpose of the
there was an official warning
paot. The purpese of the pact ls
from Berlin thef this would mean
 threaten us with war in the
wer. This warning was followed
two oceans at onee. The moves
by a warning that the United
made since the pact was signed
States must not consider allow-
—the moves by the Japanese to-
ing merchant ships to go to ports
ward Singapere, by the Nasie
in neutrad Eire-a curious warn-
ing. indeed, since nothing had
tuguese and Irish bases em the
been said here about allowing
Atlantic-are related in a sysk
ships to go to Eire.
matic plan to establish the fee
Thus the handing over of the
dation of their sea power ia
mar veasels was ignored a af no
consequenoe. But on the basis
of mere rumors there are now
threats of war over some mer-
Great Britain is effectively
chant ships and over the pessi-
ported by the United States.
bility, which no one here had
the combined ses pewer of
heard seriously discussed, of let-
ain and the United States:
ting ships ply between neutral
greater than twiee the see pows
Iriah and neutral American ports.
of the two separately, and t
THE QUESTION  why
Axis. It is. therefore, not im th
suited the Axirto be complacent
Merest of the triple Axis to fere
about the destroyers and why the
us lato the war. For they kme
Axis hes new suddenly begun to
that in conjunetion with th
use war-like threats over mere
British navy and its bases 
rumors about intrineically less
existing naval power la alread
serious American acts. A full
immense and that our capacht
answer to that question would
to produce arms and to take ethe
admost certainly explain many
things, and it is important that
many times if they pusbed 
we should seek the answer.
from neutrality into war. But 
It is evident that when the
is their vital interest to preved
Axis ignored the destroyer deal.
us from giving Brttain edfestiv
Hitler was convinced that he
aid by measures short of wer.
could conquer Great Britain be-
fore the promises of American
since the end of September in er
der to reduce the affesttve
and Mr. Wülkle, could be made
of our aid to Bettais la to 
good. The groat air battles of
sation. preving that Beitain could
not be conquered by a quiek
tually that was musk the
the American srmament program
unneutral act we have demd,
would he siven seme time to pro-
@ase substantial reeults. Immodi-
ately. Hitler changed his policy
teward the Ualted statee from
their polley and b

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.95)
enly of his submarinee but
bie air feroe.
Thue the signing of the pest e
the triple Axis on Septamber
that the United States might
siderable and seme felate and
requisition idle merchant shipe
ted up in American harbora,
to the avowed purpese of the
there wae an offcial warning
mat. The purpese of the pact is
threaten us with war In the
wer. Thts warning was followéd
two cceans at esees. The meves
by a warning that the United
made since the pect was sigwed
States must not consider allow-
-the moves by the Japanese to-
ing merchant ships to go to ports
in neutrad Eirea curious warn-
ing. indeed, since nothing had
tuguese and Irish bases em 
been said here about allowing
ships to go to Eire.
matic plan to establish the fee
Thus the handing over of the
dation of their sea power im
sar vessels was ignored as of no
ef mere rumors there are now
threets of war over some mer-
Great Britain is effectively
chant shipe and over the pesst-
ported by the Uaited States.
bility, which no one here had
the combined sea power of e
heard seriously discussed, of let-
ain and the United States
ting ships ply between neutral
greater than twise the see powad
Irish and neutral American ports.
of the two meparately, and 
THE QUESTION  why 
Axie. It ia. therefore, not im the
suited the Axisto be complacent
Merest of the triple Axis to fored
about the destroyers and why the
us into the war. For they kme
Axis has now suddenly begun to
that in conjunction with thé
use war-like threats over mere
British navy and its bases out
sumors about intrinsically less
existing naval power is already
merious American acts. À full
Immense and that our capacity
answer to that question would
to produce arms and to take other
almost certainly explain many
measures would be multiplied
things, and it is important that
many times if they pusbed s
we should seek the answer.
from neutrality into war. But 
It ls evident that when the
is their vital interest to prevest
Axis ignored the destroyer deal,
us from giving Britain effectivé
Hitler was convinced that he
aid by measures short of war.
could conquer Great Britain be-
The policy they have adopted
fore the promises of American
since the end of September in ore
support, made by Mr. Reosevelt
der to reduce the effectiveneme
and Mr. Willkie, could be made
of our aid to Britain la to maké
good. The great air battles of
threats and gestured daslgaed tà
early September changed the sit-
watlen, proving that Britain could
not an alternative to war bat
not be conquered by a quick
road to war. They did met beth
knoskout Maw, This meant that
-about the destroyers, though 
the war would go on and that
tually that was much the me
the American armament program
unneutral act we have deve, be
would be given some time to pro-
cause they thought our ald
dace substantial results. Immedi-
ately. Hitler changed his policy
teward the United States from
It would not be, they
 of Ignoring us to one of
threatening us. Within a fort-
might. after the demopstrated
possible over rumers 
falfure to knock out Britain in
tively small prejecta.
early September, he mounted the
Staly in à spectacular ceremony
their thrests is to feree 
men that if the triple at-
Mance deemed our aid to Britain
It. is mot by any meaas, a pelley
impertant-that is, effective-we
of tatal war. Their hope is that
should be attacked.
they can procipitate a dobate here
TMS THREAT whe mot merely
ing Britain so slow and s 
verbal. Japan began to move
srousd the Pailippinen, toward
fallure, and Britaia fall tke
pere. Mitler undertook the ne-
petlations with Laval which, if
from Its basss in Ireland, Frases
Portugal, Spain, West Afries, 
Asores and Mingapere.
met emly in the

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.96)
ontinue their push southward-
nto Phailand, Malaya and the

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.96)
found against him so far have
beem the matural barriers. Far
dtanee-& stretch of deep water
20 miles wide at its narrowest
poist. His tasks cannot swim the
pessible, he would have already
invaded England.
We Americams must face facts,
and tnsteed of crying ost in the
dark with Roosevelt "Let us help
Eagland," we must realine that
Hkler's workers are busy right
now trying to design barges or
other craft capable of success-
fully transporting tanks acroes
the English Channel. We Amer-
icans know that the English are
poor marksmem and that Hitler
knows it. Hitler knows there is
only a minimum of danger from
the opposition and right now he
is trying to evercome that oppo-
sition.
However, It may take him
months of study and in the mean-
time America must play its part.
I suggest that all liberty-loving
Americans urge Congress to de-
clare war so we can act directly,
net depending upon England.
Such a declaration would change
the picture completely and and
Hitler almost alone. 
During the World war we
skowed what we can de when we
wast to. We oan meet any emer-
geaoy. We can bulld bigger and
better tanks than Hitler can ever
expect to have. In short, we can
beet Hitler at his own game, and
do it direct and doing it direct,
we can do it far quicker and
more econemically than through
adopting Recsevelt's idee of giv
J. FRANK MCALLISTER.
Pittoburgth, Pa, Doe. aa, 10sa.

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.87)
Petrary 14, 1001
Xy dear Mr. Tennell:
Your lotter of Janwesy 2, 194l, addrecesd to the
Presidest, La regard so the question ef an embargs upem
the impartetion of Japamese silk into the United States,
has been refesped to this Department.
You may be mosured that the contants of your loi
ser have earefully neted and that the mpirit which
prempted  te bring your viewe to the Govermment's st-
114
tontion is appresisted.
N
Simesrely yours,
Fer the Beeretary of State:
Maxwell M. Hamllton
Chief
Divislon or Far astern Affaire
Kr. Gerald M. Fennell,
9
2AF
Hotel Willlam Penn,
Pittsburgh, Penneylvanis.
FAFE
FE 1 EOC1 MHP
2/11/41
2/12

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.93)
Im reply refer to
D8 804.24/1625
My Goar Mr. Sohafer:
7
By referenoe from the white House, I have received
3
your undated letter in regard to exports of war materials
5
4
to Japan and to our relations with the Union of Soviet
2
F. W.
Socimlist Republion.
5
/1025
In reply, I enolose, for your information, a copy
894.
3
of Comprehensive Export Control Sohodule Wo. 3, dated
October 1, l94l, whioh oontains information oonoerning
those artioles and materials the exportation of whioh 1s
prohibited or ourtailed in accordanoe with the provisions
of seotlon 6 of the mot of Congress approved July 2, lo40,
and of roolamations issued pursuant thereto, as well as
regulations for the adminiutration of the act. I onolose
also, as of possible interest, copies of oress releases,
Presidential Proclamations and regulaticns whioh relate
to the matters dieoussed in your letter. You may be
assured that the syetem of oontrole established under
the
Mr. Marvin R. Sohafer,
Department of Sociology and loclal Work,
Collego of Fuget Sound.
Taooma, Washington.
T

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
the provisions of the above-mentioned act is sonsistemtly
applied with a view to the interests of our national
defense and that no export lioense 1s granted until care-
ful consideration hes been givon to both the imediate
and ultimate consequences of the shipment involved.
with referenoe to the second question dealing with
the polioy of this Government with respeot to the Soviet
Union, there is enclosed a ocopy of a statement given to
the press on June 23, 194l, by Aoting Seeretary of State
Sumer welles whioh sets forth this policy end explains
the reason for 1ts adoption. It doos not appear that the
polloy of ald to foroes opposing Hitlerlsm has any con-
neetion with the merits or demerits of the present regime
in the Union of Sovlet Soolalist Republios.
sinoerely yours,
Enolosures:
Edgar P. Allen
Sebedule No. 3.
For the Aoting Chier
Proclamation and
Division of Exoorte and Defense Ald
rogulat1ons, July 28, 1940.
Press releases, July 31,
September 26, 1940.
Rogulations, September 30,
1940.
Press release, Deoember 10,
1940.
Proolanation and Exeoutive
Order, Deoomber 10, 1940.
Exocutive Order, Febru-
ary 4, 1941.
Statement by Mr. Walles,
Jume 23, 1941.
Press releaees, July 25.
August 1, 1941.
DE: AEP: LCR
1028-11/6/41
FE
Eu

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.98)
OCT15
AND DEVENSE
RECEIVED
Department
OCT 2- 1941
D. BOOSEVELT
t of the United State
D. C.
OCT 6 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Mitle I am neither seeking nor expecting a personal answer I would
ciate a reply reflecting his thinking relative to two problems which will
hongst those raised in discussion groups I will be leading during the
mmsearanotnes questions, they have been raised many times by
ams and radio but I have never seen the administration's answer.
1. Why do we continue to send war supplies to Japan? We are told that
alortage of steel and gasoline and other war materials are impending. Yet
within a forghtnight these have been loaded a Puget Sound ports. Japan's
Pimite alliance with Germany appears to the best of our kmowledge to be
mding (and insidious). To Japan's attempt to master China has been added
he threat of cambination with the Nazi regime of Europe. We pledge assis-
tanoo to China and then arm the aggressor. I am interested in the reasons,
ibical or expedient, which in the opinion of the Administration justify
apparently contradictory action and philosophy?
2. Why has Germany's attack on Russia changed the truth or error of
Stalin's brand of Communism and the "subservise" activities which have supported
it? Because the Nazi Beast has now chosen to attack the Russian Bear, are we
ssured that if we act to save the Bear the Bear will not"liquidate" us? - etc
NOV 1 8 1941
I am tremendously interested in the answer to thiese. My confession that
can conjure up no legitimate reason - why? - will not, I hope, blind me to
a sympathetic hearing to reasons given. This is one of the few times in my
leadership when I find myself unable to give what appear to me to be
acional answers to both sides of issues about which there remain division of
opinion. I would be reluctant to ask this favor for me alone, but in my
capacity of leader of scores of discussions on current problem I meet these
questfon continuously.
Sincerely yours,
Marvin R. Schafer
College of Puget Sound
Tacoma, Washington.
("Federal Forum" leader for two years)

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.95)
Memorandum of
REOHIVHDDATE: JUI
SEI
CONEDE
DIVISION OF
UNDER SECRETARY
Mr. Hall, Minister, British Embassy
CIPANTS:
JUL 2419
Mr. Hornbeck
Assistant Secretary
of State
COPIES TO:
MK. HUYBECK
JUL 25 1941
MR. ACHESON
Mr. Hall called on me at his request in continuation
of conversation begun on July 16. Mr. Hall said that the
894.24
British Government expected to be very conservative about
putting embargoes on foodstuffs in trade with Japan; that
1t was giving "further study" to certain commodities,
especially: iron ore, lead, zinc, bauxite, manganese,
salt, mica, fluorspar and copra from New Guinea; and that
00112EW
it was especially interested in the subjeot of bunker
control in the Pacific.
SEP 3 0 1941
Contial
FILHD
CD
A/HISKHIFLB

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DXR
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: Ju1y 21, 1941.
211941
PARTiciPANTs: Mr. Hall, Minister, British Embassy
MR. WELLES
Mr. Dean Acheson
Assistan: Socrotary
Mr. Hornbeck
of State
894/24/1626
21941
COPIES TO:
11R
MR. UR
MR. ACHESON
1
Under instruction from the Under Secretary, Mr. Hornbeok
894.
asked Mr. Hall to call at Mr. Acheson's office this after-
noon; and, Mr. Hall having come, Mr. Acheson informed
Mr. Hall of steps which the American Government expects
OCT 3 - 194
to take vis-à-vis Japan. When Mr. Acheson had conoluded,
FILED
Mr. Hornbeok asked Mr. Hall whether he could inform us
what steps the British Government intends to take. Mr. Hal
Jonfidential
replied that his Government expected to denounce certain
commeroial treatiee; that it expected to "tighten controls"
of exports and imports; but he did not know what their
intentions were with regard to freezing; and that they
would ask the Dutch to get "right into line". Mr. Aoheson
asked
e

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
asked for details about trade controls and mentioned
certain features of our theory and practice. Mr. Hall
did not elucidate. Mr. Hall stated that the United
Kingdom trade with Japan was no longer important in
volume but that the trade of the Dominions and Colonies
with Japan was important.
On the whole, what Mr. Hall said was inconclusive
and not very comprehensive.
Comment: In the light of this conversation and the
preceding recent conversations which I have had with
Mr. Hall on the subject of coordination of U. S. and
British plans and procedures, I am of the impression that
STRICLCLCCONI
the British Government has rather vague and rather limited
intentions as regards economic pressures against Japan,
and that the British Government's chief interests as re-
gards such conversations is to find out what this Govern-
ment has in contemplation and have itself in position to
offer to this Government suggestions or advice.
PA/H:SKH:FLB

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.96)
912≤/41
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SEP18 1941
RECEIVED
RITISH EMBASSY
coprid
-ARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTO
Department of Stae
941 SEP 26 BP Sare Hand.
September 17th, 1941
0
MMUNICATIONS
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
seR
AND RECORDS
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
HP18
Dear Dr. Feis,
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
cn African Fluorspar
I have now heard from the Ministry of Economic 
Warfare that the Government of the Union of South Africa 6
is withholding licences for export of fluorspar to Japan, 
.24/1627
94.24
as well as for all other important commodities.
Yours sincerely,
Armani
MR. HURNBECK
SEPZU
Assistant Secretary
of State
SEP 2 2 1941
MR.' ACHESON
Dr. Herbert Feis,
SEP 2 6 1941
Adviser on International Economic Affairs,
FILED
U.S. Department of State, Room 370,
PS/MW
Washington, D.C.

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.95)
By Safe Hand
gilw
Coky to clayton
BRITISH EMBASSY
O OF THE ADVISER ON
WASHINGTON, D. C.
RECEIVED
INTERNATIONAL ECONGMIC AFFAIRS
4/1.628
SEP 2 6 1941
SEP 24 1941W
September 22, 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Dear Auchincloss
8484-25-41
8
We received iformation a liitle while ago about shipments
of 47 tons of fluorspar from Argentina to Japan during July.
Production and exports of fluorspar to Japan from the Argentine
in recent years were as follows: -
1938
1939
1940
Not available
739 tons
Production
1406 tons
305 "
11
11
Exports to Japan 1300
) "
Domestic consumption is about 250/300 tons annually for
metallurgical and ceramic inaustries. It appears that the fall in
production in 1939 was due to a fall in Japanese demand.
It is not clear to me whether A  entine fluorspar is a type
suitable for the afacture of synthetic cryolite, but on the face
of it, it woulu be natural for Japan to turn to Argentina now that
Me ican supp ies are no longer available. Hovever, supplies avail-
PS/MW
able from the Argentine are very smail compared vith the supplies
formerly received from - for example - Mexico, which for the last
five months of 1940 amounted to 6400 tons. We recently estimated
that 7ooo tons annually woula be needed to keep Japanese synthetic
cryolite production at its maximum, and therefore I do noi feel
Argentine fluorspar need keep us avake at nignt, all the more so
as it is included in the list of commodities now under negotiation.
However, as he aoove ray be of interest to you, I send it
to you simply for information.
Yours sincerely,
MreiAAda
SEP 2 6 1941
FILED
R. Reid-Adam.
Mr. John W. Auchincloss
United States Department of State
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.81)
1941
CHARGE SLIP
89424
File No.
ESCLOSURE
CHABGE TO—
DATE
CLERK'S INITIALS
RemARks
RE-Hodaece 331-ty
Dyt meno
(17629
22
nu Homdeat
20C/8/41
Fw/62g
LE
Dgrt ment R
11
Herr lice.by21-46
Calle d 1 728.49
sbet These eo
Juniaua
94 241

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.99)
894.24/1628 TO I727 OMITTED
10/8/41
G.D.C.

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.83)
CHARGE SLIP
89
File No.
REMARKS
ENcLosURs
CHAG TO--
2000115
1101
GT P CE1-1483

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.72)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
c
Cosial wilyi
hop no rocand "Belteon
in 1936, Rektono Filhos
Srcceded to Belhons s
Cia., Sao Paes, ln 1936
thy mn fortond cathe Tortaly
coud tf be che so. oulft
a the Retio pn do
tr

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.87)
DEPARTMENT OF:STATE
ASSISTANT SECRITARY
FC
9/27/41
DCA m. Retl
He attachel will
Brabatly te y mteint to gan.
ban gan idntep, the
letter？
Thank you.

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.98)
Safe Hand
BRITISH EMBASSY
T2-194
WASHINGTON, D. C.
NO
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
SEP 20 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OCT 1 5 1941
Dear Auchincloss,
the following informatio
We have received from a secret source
which I tnink you will find of interest.
On June 24, Mitsui of Sao Paulo, Brazil, wrote to Mitsui of New
894.24/1729
York, to the following effect. They submitted offers from Beltramo"for
possible shipment to Japan, details of which I reproduce below: -
" GRAPHITE: 50O tons monthly, to be increas d to 1o00 tons monthly
RUTILE:
20 tons monthly, to be increased later to 30 tons
TANTALITE:500 Kilos prompt shipment, 1000 kilos shipment in 6 weeks
RUTILIO: can always be sumplied
ZIRCON:
200 tons a montn, pe haps more if space available. "
894.24
We have no information as to who Beltramo may be.
Of the conmodities entioned, Rutile and Zircon are, of course,
covered by your agreenent with razil and these offers may represent an
attempt to circumvent the agreement by making exports from Brazil to the
United States appear to be part of ordinary comnercial trade.
Graphite is, I understand, not produced in any quantity in Brazil
and we have heard of no shipment of this comnodity from that country. It is
just conceivable that the quantities in question might represent gooas of
Mexican origin which have somehow reached Brazil but the quantities would be
astonishingly large if this were the case. Alternatively mitsui in Brazil
may be attempt ing to arrange direct shipments from exico to the Unit ed
States. In any case, you may think this question is worth investigation.
C
C The question
301941
Mr. Join W. Auchincloss
Room 362, United States Department of State
T41941
Washington, D. C.
THE AMERICAN REPUBLICS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.98)
Mr. J. W. Auchinclbss
-2-
September 19, 1941
The question of Tantalite is also, I think, of interest. I
understand that Tantalite Ore is produced chiefly in Australia, the
Belgian Congo, Uganda and Brazil, and that it has an important use as a
metal and as tantalum carbide which is one of the hard carbides used for
tipping tools. Tantalite is not, I think, one of the commodities which
the United States Government is purchasing in Brazil and wuile Columbite,
an associated metal, is covered by the Brazilian export licencing
regulations, tantalite does. not appear to be so mentioned. We have
received information of exports of tantalite from Brazil to Japan amounting
to 17.2 tons during January - August, 194l. I understand this is quite a
substantial figure from the point of view of inuustrial use. Perhaps,
therefore, you will think that the question of tantalite is also worth
investigation.
Yours sincerely,
R. Reit Adan
R. Reid-Adam.

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.98)
PARTMENT OF ST
WORLD TRADE INTI
DM - Mr. tinletter:
We are making inquiry of the
Embassy in Mexico City with a view
to considering these people for
addition to the Proclaimed List.
"T:JSDickey

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.80)
RTMENT OF STATE
TA TOY
HT
:) Shumed wr sent any
munctions to lhe
Tubay?
2) Dichey shumes han
paraplirasas 7 thee
Felegrams
TCE

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
PM
Manzanillo
This telegram must be
clos Ely paraphrasgd bE- FRoMDatEd OctobEr 5, 101
forE bEing communicatEd
to anyonE (br
Rec1d 8:40 pem
Secretary of Stat,
DIVISION OF
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
Washington.
OCT-AMEICAN REPUBLICS
TRIPLE PRIORITY.
DEPARTMENT
DEPABIMENT OF STATE
Division of
October 5, 7 a,m.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
OCT 10 1941
On thE strength of information rEcEived from a
Department of State
usually rεliablE sourcε thE undersigned, accompanied
by thE British VicE Consul, informed thE Chief of
ity that flasks of mErcury, concealed in boxes con-
taining resin or other goods being exported would
Assistant Seoretary
leet Oct 29, 0.10
bE loadEd on thE JapanEsE vEsSEl AZUMA MARU, now
of State
MR. ACHESON
NOV 5 -1941
in port.
A load of bronzE pieces (in mEtal containErs
was bEing loaded on a bargE at this early hour.
ThE Customs HousE DirEctor ordered this movement
stopped and gavE orders that no other Exportation
bE madE until 8 a m, this morning, at which timE
NOV 6 1941
OCT 17 1941
certain of thE metai containers as well as some
FILED
oxEs of rEsin will bE openEd for inspection.
This officE has positivE proof that such a
STATE
han has been conpEmplated. Whether it was put
into

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.96)
-2- October 5, 7 a.me, from Lianzanillo.
into Effect on this boat or will bE attempted later
will be determined at 8 a.m. this morning.
Full details by mail.
Embassy and ConsulatE General informed.
HOYT.
GW

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM.RECEIVED
THE AMÉ
Manzan111ODEPARTMENT OF'STATE
ElEgram must bE
Dated OctobEr 5, 1941
ologery paraphrasEd bE-
fore bEing communicatEdFROM
Rec'd. 8:42 p.m.
to anyonE. (br)
OCT 28 1941
Division of
Secretary of StateFAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
OCT10 194
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
Washington
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
Department of St
OCT-61941HT
TRIPLE PRIORITY.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
October 5, 11 a.m.
RefErencE is madE to my tElEgram of OctobEr
5, 7 a.m.
FivE flasks of mErcury wErE discovErEd upon
894.24/1731
thE opening of the first of thE mEtal drums supposedly
24/1731
containing bronzE. ThE EntirE shipmEnt of 347 drums
has bEen Embargoed and thE containErs arE now bEing
opEnEd. It is EvidEnt that thE EntirE lot is full
of mErcury.
ThE shipmEnt was bEing madE by Antonio LlorEns
local customhousE broker. ThE agent in MExico City
NOV61
not yEt dEtErminEd but it is beliEvEd that hE is
a JapanEsE namEd Nagabuchi at BucarEl1 8. REpEated
1941
to Embassy and ConsulatE GenEral.
HOYT
Assistant Secretary
OCT 17 1941
B
GW
of State
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
11
MR. ACHESON

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM SENT
Department of State
Waskinglon,
October 9, 1941
11
Thie coble .
now.tial Co
AMDMBASSY,
Dr.
MEXICO CITY (MEXICO).
894.24/1730,1731
565
894.24/1
Reference is made to the two telegrams of October 5 from
Vice
the Consulate at Manzanillo.
the appropriate official of the Mexican Government and express the
Department's deep concern over the narrowly averted smuggling of
3
subatantial quantity of mercury urgently needed in this country's
defense industries to Japan. The Azuma Maru episode hus created a
very unfavorable impression, particularly because of the fact that
meroury shipments from Mexico to the United States pursuant to
the Federal Loan Agency's agreement have been far less than had
been anticipated. Furthermore, despite the clear provisions of
Article I of the Deoree of July 10, wh.ch orohibited the exportation
of mercury to undesirable destinations, mercury was allowed to ac-
cumulate in Manzanillo, thus implying that en attempt would be made
to smuggle it out of the country. Manzanillo, it might be observed,
1s hardly a logical point to accumulate shipments destined to the
United States.
Enciphered by
Send by operator
M.,
.19

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.91)
TELEGRAM SENT
PARTAIR
PLAIN
Department of State
Bay letter
Washington.
Might letter
Charge to
The Department is iwpressed by the fact that it was the
ailigence and foresight of the Vice Consul at Manzanillo rather
than the zeal of the Mexican authorities which prevented the
shipment from being made. It is hcped, however, that suitable
steps will be taken to minimize the danger cf illegal shipments
in the future. Such steps, for example, might involve direct
government control over all stocks of mercury.
The foregoing should be discussed in detall with Ransom.
The Department recognizes the possibility that you and Ransom
may consider it inadvisable to raise certain of the points mentioned
with the Mexican Government. This is left to your discretion.
dercunmon 11
Lwith te Merican antiorntes
TF incident to be handled by the Department, but with the full
Hulp
participation of ita renresentetive.
TF
SN
RA
山
EA:HT:CD
.A.W.
A
HF.
PW
t
CR
PA
Enciphered by
Send hy operator
M..
.19

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.95)
Kemry A. Moyt, Esquire,
Ameriean Viee Consul,
Manzanillo, Colima, Mexioo.
81r:
Referenee is made to your telegrams of Ootober 5,
894.24/173
a.m. and l1 a.m., and Ootober 7, 11 a.m. and noon,
regarding the narrowly averted smuggling of a substantial
quantity of meroury for shipment to Japan.
The Department oommends you for your prompt end
effeetive action without which it appears that the
smaggling attempt would have been successful.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
ABERLE,JR.
1731
17 19412%
10-14-41

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM RECEIVEDHE
FROM
Redld l ama sth
Division of
HGW:PAK 10-11-41
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
OF THE ADVISER ON
OCT1719
petary of State
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
Pepartment of
OCT - 7 1941
Washington.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MR. HONNBECK
1562, Foturth (SECTION ONE)
1581a
NOV 15 1941
29
Reference Department's 550, August 20, 9 pome,
1402
1582
and Embassy's 1042, SEptember 6, 1 am.
The Embassy is now informed by rEpresentatives
of Chile and Brazil herE that as far as they know
894.
to supply Japan with primary materials by means
of tradE rEprisals or threats of (?). Although
for thE samE considerations as thosE outlined in
the Embassy's telegram under referencE trade be-
NOV 1 8 1941
tween ChilE and Brazil and Japan has recently
FILED
been greatly cmrtailed, thE representatives indi-
cate that Japan has maintained a ciroumspect ap-
proach towards its commercial rElations with thesE
countries and has Evidenced Every desirE for the
continuancE of exchange of produots. According
to the Embassy*s informants Chile and Brazil for
their part apparently have no intention to court
comeroial favors from Japan but arE not rejecting
such

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.95)
Reord 1 ame6th
aush opportunities as present themstlves com
formablt with their present commeroial policies
to tradE with JapanesE.
The following partioulars have been imparted
to us regarding thE current trade situation be-
tween Japan and Chile, Japan and Brazil and arE
repeated in supplement to thE information which
the Department may already have in the matter:
OnE. Chile. Only two ships havE saile d for
Chilean ports sincE the American freezing order,
with onE morE known to bE soheduled to sail in
thE near futurE. ThreE or morE JapanEsE ships
arE now rEturning from ChilE, two of which are
bringing cargoes of nitrate.
TOCKARTGREW
GW

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECÉIVED
Tokyo via Shanghai & NRs
PD
This telegram must DE
closely paraphrased be- Dated October 4, 1941
forE being communicated
FROM.
to anyonε. (br)
RERaM1:20 am, 6th.
Seoretary of State
Washington.
1562, fourth., (SECTION TWO.)
JapanesE interests hold a contract with the Import
NitratE Export Company for thE supply of onE
100,000
hundred thousand tons of nitratE pEr annum until
6S, 0
June 30, 1943 under which sixty fivE thousand
tons werE Exported to Japan in the ytar ending;
10)
and during thE current yEar lEss than ten thousand
tons, comprising thE two cargoes now being shipped
to Japan. Figures for thE prEsEnt JapanEsE im-
ports of copper were not furnished us but it is
understood that thE amount is small and that the
contract for the purchasE of copper by Japan will
ExpirE at thE end of this yEar and probably will
not bE renewed. ThE drastic curtailment of
JapanEsE imports of thesE two materials that are
much nEeded herE 1s attributed to sEveral causes.
ThE prinoipal JapanesE Export to Chile has been
cotton goods but thE import market for this produot,
in any casE

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
-2 #1562, fourth. (SECTION TW0) from Tokyo via Shangha
in any casE limited, has alrFmdm been oversold
Other goods such as machinery, automotivE Equipment,
εlEctrical appliances, Etc., which ChilE rEquires
and is willing to purchasE hErE Japan is, with but
few Exceptions, unablE to supply. As a rEsult of
Japan's inability to obtain ChilEan funds by mEans
of JapanEsE Exports or to transfer funds from other
countries to Chilean accounts bEcausE of a freezing
order JapanEsE crEdits in ChilE arE now Exhausted ThE Import
CommEroial AttachE has informEd us that as EvidEncE
of this fact hE was advisEd by JapanEsE importErs that
they cannot make further purchases of nitrate as
thEy havE usEd up thE last JapanesE funds in Chilε
to pay for the two abovE mEntioned shipments of
that commodity.
ThE JapenesE havE approached the import author-
ities to the End of Effecting arrangements for trade
on a barter basis. ThE ChilEans in turn havE suggEst-
Ed that thE Yokohama SpeciE Bank Establish a
branch in ChilE.
GREW

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
EJ
Tokyo vin Shanghai & N.R
This telEgram must bE
closEly paraphrased bE-
Dated October 4, 1941
forE being communicatEd FROM
to anyonE (br)
Rectd 1:06 am., 6th
Secretary of State,
Washington.
1562, Fourth. (SECTION THREE)
to clEar financial transactions dirEct betwEen
thE two countries but thus far thE bank has dE-
clined to do so.
Two. Brazil. During thE past four months
only thrEE ships havE sailed from Japan to Brazil,
onE ship dEparting after thE AmErican frEezing or-
dEr. A further sailing is scheduled at thE nd of
this month. ThE TOA MARU 1Eft Japan thE 1st of
SEptEmber and carried a shipment of UnitEd States
dollars 106,000 worth of silk thread to Brazil.
DEspitE thE stoppagE of Exports to Japan of
such materials as mica diamonds and minerals which
Japan is most anxious to obtain (?) it is f εlt
that therE is room for a good deal of tradE in
other it Ems not on thE prEscribed list, Especially
cotton. (It is ExpEctEd that thE JapanEsE branch
banks in Brazil will bE ablE to financE thE trade
direct bEtwEen yEn and milreis. ThE question of
shipping

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.96)
OcTobEr 4, (SEOTION THAEE)
via
shipping presents thE main problem in implementing
the trade and a factor which is apparently de-
taining Japan from sEnding many ships to Brazil is
thE long voyagE which JapanEsE ships arE now rE-
quired to make around South America. In this con-
nEction (?) thE JapanEsE GovErnmEnt is importuning
thE Brazilian authorities to intercedE with the
American GovErnment to makE an Exception in thE
casE of Brazilian cargo vEssels and to pErmit
them to pass through thE Panama Canal en routE
to and from Japan.
(END OF MESSAGE).
GREW
HPD

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.96)
PARAP ERAMSE OF TELEIRAN RENSEIVED
FRoM: Amerlean Rabassy, Takyo, Japan, via
Shanghai and N.R.
DATE: Oetober 4, 1941.
No.: 1562
See telegram No. 550, dated Ambmst 90, 1941, 9 p.m.
from the Department and telegram No. 1042, dated September 6,
1941, 1 a.m., from the Embassy.
Representatives of Chile and Brazil in Tokyo have now
informed the Embassy that as far as they know no efforts
have been made by Japan to induce their countries by means
of trade reprisals or threats of (7) to supply Japan with
primary materials. Even though trade between Chile and
Brazil and Japan has recently been greatly curtailed, the
representatives indioate that Japan has mintained a
ciroumspeet approaeh towards its eommereial relations with
Chile and Brasil and has evdeneed every desire that the
exehange of produets will be contimed. (See Embassy's
telegram, reference above.) Chile and Brasil, according
to the informants of the Eabassy, apparently have no
imtemtion to court cemmereial favors from Japan. However,
they are met rejeeting such epportumities as present them-
selves and whieh sonform with the present cemmereial
pelieies of eash to trade with the Japanese.
The partieulars whieh follow have been imparted to
the Mmbassy in regard te the eurrent trade situatien
beteeen Japan and Brasil, Japan and Chile and are
repeated

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.86)
0
repestes La sapplamene to the Laformatlon, ia regare te pane
mattes mhtch the mapartasms may mave already.
1. ls. Sinse the Wis. freening orter, oaly tue
shlpe have sallad for Caileam ports. It is kmomm that
La the aear future me more io sebeauled to enil. at
the present time, thee or re Japames ahipe are
returaing from Chile. Two of the dapamese shipe are
briaging nitrate argoes.
Gertain Jepamese interests have a eunsress with the
Impert Bitrate Kxport compamy. Under thie centraet, the
Dempany 1s to seppky 100,000 tone of n1trate eack year wat1l
Jume 30, 1943, under wbiah 66,000 toms were exported to
Japem 1n the yoar ending (1940); and during 1941 l0sn tham
10,000 toas--this latter rigure e mpri ces the twe eargees
whieh are at the preceat time being shipped to Japan.
The mmbasny was mot fureiahed vith figures for the
prossnt laperts of ooper  the dapamess. However, 18
in wnderetood thnt the amvust of those is orte le all.
Is ls alee mderstood that the contrast for the purehase
of eopper y Japan will expire at the ead of the year 1042
and 18 1e probatte that there v1i1 be no reowal of the
oeatraet.
There are several rensons for the drastle surtailmemt
of Japazese importe of the two materials mentiomed and wtt.
materials are mueh mosded sa Tukye.
The malm expart te Chile by tie Japanese n s beem cotton
goods. Havever, the Laport market fer shis prodwet has wlready

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.88)
been overeeld. In aay ease, the sapers trade foe thais
pr0du0t 1s 11as t04.
withe hut few exseptiems, Japam ls veable te supply
etaer goude (sush as mashin ry, autemetire equipmenty
aleotrienl appliamees, et cetera) whien is required 
Gaile und whseh ahil 1e walling tc bug in Tokye.
Japanese eredite ia Chile are exhausted at the preeems
size. Thi s 1s because of the imebillty of Japan te seoure
Chileam funds by menms of Jap mese exporte to  tramafes
funcs from nther eountries to the acccuate of Chile dme to
a freesing order. The Bubassy hes beem inforeed  the
Import Commerelnl Attachd that, as evidemee of this fast,
Japanese iaportere advi eed him that they have used up the
lact of the Japamese funte in Chile as paymeme for the twe
shipmente ef mitrate (whleh are mentiored abeve).
The import autberit!ee have been approashed by the
Japamese to he end of effeeting arrangemeate for trade
on a basls of barter. Im turm, the suggestlom hos beem
made by the Chileane that a brameh be establiahed ia Caile
of the Yokehama Speele Bank, 1n order to olear fimnnsial
trameaetlonn direet betweem the twe eountries. However,
the bank hes deelimed to io so thus far.
E. mazIl.. Oxly three ahips during the past four
months have sallec frem J pan to Brazll. One of the chips
departed after the freesins order of the U.s. at the ond
of this month, a further sniling is eaheduled. Om September 1,
the roa Hany left J pam. It earried e shipment w Brasll es

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.93)
4
106,000 warth of silk thread.
In apise of the steppage of eperte to Japan of 
mterials as minerals, diasends, and mica - iah Jaoss
is roeem for a good deal of trede in other items, spesiak
eetton, whieh are not on the preseribed list. Ascerfíxs
to expestations, it will be possible for the trade te be
fimansed between yen and milrsis through the Japanese
branch banks in Brasil. The main problen in implememting
the trade 1s that of shipping. Japanese shipe are new
required to make trips around South mmiea and this
fastor apparently detains Japan from semding mny ships
to Brasil.
The Japanese Gevernment, in conneetion with this
shipping diffioulty (?), is urgently requesting the
authorities of Brazil to intereede with the U.S. Gevern-
mens to make an exseption in the case of Brasilian eargo
ships and to allow sueh vessels which are en route te
and from Japan to pass through the Panama Camal.
This is the end of the message.
GPEW
894.94/1732
BA:PAK

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.92)
poply reter
804.94/1988
Osteber 11, 1941.
The seeretery ef state presents his compliments to
the Memereble the Seeretary of the Treasury and eneleses
a eept of a paraphrase of telegram No. ls62, dated
Ostober 4, l94l, from the Ameriean Kmbassy, Tokyi,
FW-
Japan, comeerming the trade situation betweem Chile
894.24/1732
and Brasil and Japan.
Eneloeure:
From Kmbassy: Tokyo,
No. 1862, Ootober 4,
1941, 1 oopy of para-
phrase.
EA:PAK
HGW
(分

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.95)
0020 1941
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
MansaniM
#itgram must be
Dated botober 7, 1941
ay paraphrased bE-
bring communicated
FROM
anyónε. (br)
108/56
Secretary of State,
INATIONLECOC AFFAIRS
TDCT-8194
toEC.
Washington,
ELR:kel
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1730
1731
October 7, noon.
894.24
ReferencE is madE to my telegrams of October 5
7 a.m. and 11 a.m.
894.24/1733
As yet thE total number of mercury flasks is
still undermined.
It has' been ascertained that the agents in
Mexico City were Ramon Obregon at Insurgentes No.
430 and Luis Basuto at Palma No. 34.
OCT 2 9 1941
Mr. Llorens informs mE that hE was Expecting
FILED
another shipment of bronzE from thE samE source.
ConsulatE GEneral has bEen informed.
HOYT.
Division of
FAR EASTERNAFFAIRS
PEG
00124 1941
Department of St

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.84)
PARAPTRANE OF TELRSIAN RSGETVED
PRess Amerieem Gensclate, Namssaille, Momiee
DATE: G0teb0r 7, 1941, m0on
The Gonsslate refere te ste seiegrems ef  am
and 11 a sent n Oteber 5.
The autherities here have net as yet determined the
total mmber of merewry flasks.
The Cemsulste has learned that the Mexiee Gity ageats
Lnvelved in the transaetien vere Lais Basute ef Palme Ne. 84
and Ramen Obregon, vhese address 1s Insurgestes Ne. 4s0.
I am told by Xr. Llerene that he was expeeting the
3
F
The Censulate has 1mfermed the Cenewlate Gemeral at
Mexiee City of the foregeing.
HOTT.
KAILW

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.91)
Oetober e, 1941
CONIRNTIAL
The Ofriee of Export Control:
FW
There are emolosed fer your information parephraseo
894.24/1733
of two telegrems dated Ootober 5 and oze dated Ootober ,
194l from the Amerieen Vice Consul at Manzanillo, Mexiee,
in regard to am attempt tn export flasks of moroury
eoneealed in metal drams supposedly containing bronze.
Edward L. Reed
Aoting Assietant Ohief
Divislon of Controls
Smolosures:
Three paraphreees.
Co:ELR:KEL 10/8/41
Z
PS/MM

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Manzanillo
telegram must be
ly paraphitased bE-
FROM Dated OctobEr 7, 1940
forE being communicated
to anyonε. (br)
Reo'd. 9 p.
DIVISION OF
File
TO
Staretary of State,
OFFICE OF THE A
REPURLICS
Washington.
NATIOL 
PARIVNENT OF STATE
O Oct t  941 D
894.24
DEPARTMENT OF STAT 3 3
October 7, 11 a. m.
ReferencE my tElegram of Ootober 6,Inoon.
Reliably informed that A. Z. Phillips of Mexico
894.24/1734
City is definitely (repeat definitely) the pErson
involved in this transaction. Embassy and Consulate
General have been advised.
Assistant Secrotary 
HOYT.
of State
PEG
Drrinion of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1941
ACHESON
Department of State
NOV 1 4 1941
FILED
OCT 24 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.97)
DIVISIOV.OF
Assistant Seoretary
of State
REPURLICS
OCT 1- 1941
DEPART
E
STATE
W.T. 538/18 /41
DIVISION OF COMMERCIAL British Embasby
Washington, D.C.
TREATIES AND AGREEMENTS
By Safe Hand
1st October, 1941
OCT 1 0 1941
1OCR
2m
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MR. HUKNDELI
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.24/1735
REORIVED
OC1 15 1941
Dear Reinstein,
OCT 6 1941
DEPARTMENT QI SIAIN
DIVISION OF
Raw Cotton Statistice
You will remember my sending
OFFIDE CF THE
rticular reference to Japan, India and the U.S.A.
OCT 2.4 1941
Attached is a supplement devoted
DEPARTMENT OF SHTE
in this instance more particularly to Brazil.and
Peru, The figures are in a convenient form and
832.61321
you may find them useful.
823.61321
Yours sincerely,
J
OCT 2 8 1941
FILED
John S. Dent
PS/RT
Mr. J. Reinstein,
Division of
Department of State,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Washington, D.C.
OCT 16 1941
Department of State

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.97)
Assistant Seoretarye
of State
OCT 1 - 1941
RAW COTTON STATISTICS - SUPPLEMENTAL
(with special reference to Btazil and Peru)
MR. ACHESON
The composite figure for total Japanese imports, September 1,
1940 - June 30, 1941, given in table 4 of the previous memorandum
was composed of the following quantities.
JAPANESE MPORTS
(Sept. 1, 1940 to Junc 30, 1941)
From:
India
530,000 bales
U.S.A.
95,000
n
Brazil
265,000
n
Peru
120,000
n
Egypt
10,000
n
Uganda
10,000
n
Others (China, Iraq,
Nicaragua, etc.)
194,000
n
1,224,000
n
The apparent disposal of the Brazilian an. Peruvian crops for
the period August 1 - July 31 ha:: been re orted is follows for the
principal c untries which perticipated i the tra ie urin,: the past
season.
BRAZILIA  TTC EXPCRTS (Aug. 1 - July 31)
1237/8
1938/9
1939/40
1940/41
Canala
1,000
20,000
480,000
Japan
204,000
406,000
219,000
383,000
China
11,000
214,000
158,000
191,000
U. K.
203,000
229,000
295,000
111,000
Spain
11,000
3,00
86,000
Others
729.000
748,000
280000
122,000
Total to all
countries
1,147,000
1,009,000
981,000
1,373,000
(Note:
U.s. imports of prazilian cetton re restrteted by
queta to 1, 300 bales per year.)
P RUVIAN COTTC EXP RTS (Aug. 1 - July 31)
1237/8
1938/9
1939/40
1940/41
Japan
12,000
b,000
35,000
197,000
U. K.
197,000
184,000
185,000
32,000
Colombia
(not knewm) (not known)
(net known)
17,000
Chile
(net kno.m)
(lot knowm)
not known
15,000
Total to all
countries
370,000
320,000
309,000
312,000
(Note:
Foreign Srops an: Larset: 28/4/41 sup sten that
19,000 bale ex orted in chruary as for Mexico
may have been destinei for Japan. U.3. imports
of Peruvian cotton are limited by quota to 4,800
bales per year)
The ab ve figures are frem voris publictions f the U. S.
Department of Agriculture.
4

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
Our own records of Brazilian and Peruvian shipments to Japan
this year give the following results:
(a) Brazilian shirments to Japan, Jan.-June, 1941.
January
21,865 bales
February
31,919
March
10,406
n
April
37,910
n
May
9,594
n
June
31.921
n
143,615
n
(b) Peruvian shipments to Japan, Jan.- lay, 1941.
Janury
19,366 bales
February
13,590
March
21,681
April
47,003
May
10,415
112,055
he June fi ure for Feruvian shipments is
incoplete.
Thene figures do not inelude 63,452 bales of Brazilian, and
8,213 bales of Peruvion cotton shippe 1 tc Shanghai luring the period.

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.96)
Osteber 2, 1941
894.24/1735
My dear Mr. Dent:
Thank you for your letter of Ootober 1, en-
elosing a memoramdum on cotton statistios. I
have found these figures very useful.
Simeerely yours,
Jacques J. Reinstein
Mr. J. B. Demt,
PS/RT
Secend Secretary,
British Eabasay.
OCT 4 1941
A-A:JJR: GMH

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.92)
THE AMERICAN REPUBLI
EMBASSY OPPHEMENT OF
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Buenos Aires, October 3, 1941
Central Information Office
D
(C.I.O.) report
No. 3213
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SHIPMENTS OF MERCURY FRCH SPAIN TO JAPAN VIA ARGENTINA:
OCT 2 1 1941
ARRANGEMENTS FOR PAYMENT IN BUENOS AIRES
08
Strictly Confidential
894.24/1736
1941 0 0 M 1 37
S
IVED
OoF
wk
5
PE
C
 gill
-51941
894.24
COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
OCT 16 1941
DIVISION OF
PS/PLS
DIVISION OF
Department of State
FUROPEAN AFFAIRS
The Honorable
0CT 27 1941.
Washington.
Sir:
I have the bonor to recort thet it las been learned.
through the British Eubessy here, tht substential qurntities of
FILED
mercury ere being shin ed from Spain by the Suenish mercury monopoly
14
It is understood that 5,000 flasks (200 tons), velued at approxi-
mately $1,O0O,COO, which arrived here on the SS AR CARIFE last
August were shipned to Jepan on the IRi : aRU on August 28, and
that

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
another lot of the seme quantity, which recently arrived on
the SS MAR CANTABRICO, is now here awaiting shipment. Through
certificates of origin have accompenied these shipments.
With regard to the former shipment, it was originelly
contemplated that payment would be made by shioments to Spain of
rubber and tin, but this not heving roved or cticable, an arrenge-
ment was mede through the Central Benk here, according to Dr. dgerdo
Grumbach, heed of the Foreign xchenge Departnent of that institution,
wherety peyment wes mede in blocked Argentine pesos that micht be
used only for peyment of Argentine products cold to Sorin. The
blocked pesos vere paid for by trensfer to the Central Benk of dollar
balances which Japan held i vrrious South An ricen countries. Al-
though an effort s de to furnish Spain viti free argentine pesos.
the Centrel Eank is r orted to  rve acclined to furnish peso exchenge
on eny besis other then thet mentioned ebove. I is not known what
arrangement, if eny, es s yat becn  de in regard to the second
shipment.
Peyment in et leest the first of the two operations was
guaranteed by the locel Donco de le Provincis. vhich. e the Deport-
ment is aware, hes not been reluctaut to en ge in transsctions for
the benefit of the Axis countries (reference my be mede to the
Embassy's dispatch Mo. 3218 of todcy's date).
Noman Armour
863.5
Qn.
JWG:mc
3reen tout 10/hg

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPA
RECEIVED
MEMORANDUMOCT 9 194
MR. HURNECK
To:
Mr. Algor Hiss
DIVISION
SÉP19 1941
From: Mr. Miller
The following, for your information, is an excerpt from a memo-
randum of a telephone conversation on September 18 between Mr. Fox
of Foreign Funds Control and Mr. Singer of Standard Vacuum:
894.24/1738
"Mr. Singer referred to NY 235383 and NY 237869, cov-
oring $557,000 remittance from Japan and payment of
$105,000 for oil shipment from N.E.I. to Japan. He then
inquired as to the status of these applications. Mr.
Singer was informed that these applications were receiv-
ing the consideration of the Treasury Department and that
he would be informed when a decision had been reached. In
respect to the $557,000 remittance from Japan, Mr. Singer
stated that this remittance had been ordered prior to the
despatoh of their wire, indioating that Standard would con-
sider further shipments only after payment of old indebted-
ness had been made. This is at variance with our previous
understanding whioh was that this remittance followed des-
patoh of Standard's wire by about seven days."
"With respeot to the shipment of oil from the N.E.I.
note
to Japan, Mr. Singer quoted a wire advising that an export
license would be granted by the N.E.I. authorities upon
approval of the application covering the financing of the
lie ifthe 4.5.
shipment now pending."
indecatas thal it
EGlu.
roves a poliig
xpoitingoil& Ippan
Shomtary
894.24
of State
SEP 1 9 1941
MR. ACHESON
S

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.96)
019
My dear Mr. Bridgman:
I enolose a oopy of a letter from Marris in which,
894.24/1738A
as you will see, he tells us that shipmonts of nickel ore
from New Caledonia to Japan have been suspended.
Sincerely yours,
Thomes K. Finletter
Special Assistant
to the Secretary
Enclosure:
From A. D. Marris,
September 27, 1941.
Mr. G. T. Bridgman,
A true copy of
Vice President,
818
Motals Reserve Company,
Washington, D. C.
PS/MM
EA: TKP:EHS
9/30/41.

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISION
N0V7
ELURLIOS
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
JFPAR
TK
Mexico City
This tel Egram must bE
closely paraphrased bE
Dated October 14, 1942
fore being communicated
to anyonE. (br).
Rec'd 9:34 p.m.
Jile
Secretary of State
Washing ton
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.24/1739
DepartmEnt's 565,/October 9, 11 p.m.
Department's views as sEt forth in telEgram
referred to abovE havE been fully ExpressEd orally
to thE Foreign Minister. The Foreign winister
has stated, giving completE epprovel for the
trensmission of his statem ents to. the Depertm ent
for its strictly confidential information, (one)
Assistant Secretary
that the President of thE Republic and hE share
MR. ACHESON
NOV 4 - 1941
the Department's concern with respect to the
attempted illicit Exportetion of mercury; (two)
that thE Presidnt is so distrubed and also
realizes thE necessity for a completE clarificction
of thE situation thet hE has instructed thE Treasury
NOV14 1941
Department md the Attorney General to meke a
FILED
most sEarching investigation of thE whole matter
OCT 24 1941
ind has designated the Foreign minister to take
chargE of the investigation end render a full
report of the rEsults direct to him (the
Prea dent

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.95)
tat); and (toret) the Poreign
raclizing the major importancs of the invtstigatic
wall require that it be communicated so es to de-
tarmine the identity of the persons responsible
for the attompted illegal exportation of meroury
without regard to whether such persons may ooeupy
high official positions or their prominnce or
influEnce.
MCGURK
WWC

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.96)
Dc
(U-L:COPY:LMF)
(Copy to u-l,in ra,ba/ld,ea,dcr)
CONFIDENTIAL
DIVISOAM
RECEIVED
Paraphrase of code cablegram
Received at the War Departmen
AA9n-194
OCT 1 0 1941
at 15:41, October 6, 1941.
DIVISION OF
COMMU
filed 12:30, October 6, 1941.
Considerable newspaper publicity has been given to the
attempt of a Japanese vessel to sail from Manzanillo for Japan
with alleged cargo of 347 drums listed as "bronze parts" which
894.24/1740
actually conained five flasks each of mercury. The opening of the
drums, which were valued at 350,000 was witnessed by the consul
at Manzanillo. The government has embargoed the shipment.
MC COY
894.24
CONFIDENTIAL
JCT 1 0 1941
FILED
File
STRICTLY CONFID

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.92)
gi'le
By Safe Hand
OFFICE OFTHEAFRON
INEL
BRITISH ELBASSY
RECEIVED
S5P 854941
ARTMENT OF SWABHINGTON, D. C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
41 0CT 9SeppMmber464, 1941
MMUNIATIONS
AND RECOPDS
My deur Finletter,
Many thanks for your letter of September 22,
about infornation regarding shipments to Japan of
strategic materials particularl. from Brazil.
894.24
I an wrirnin to oun Embany
he hin wr take.
liún 20 yon can on
89424/1741
Yours sincerely,
Mmmy Mannj
. D. I arris.
ir. T. K. Finletter
Special Assistant to the Secretury
United  ates epurt ent of tate
antn, D..
OCT
FILED
91941
PS/LD

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.96)
AMERICAN CONSULATE
MAIL
Manzanillo, Colima,
October 9, 1941.
IIVISION UF
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
UST 1841
FAR EASTEN FEAIRS
THE AMERICAN REPUBLICS
1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Department of State
mtm
SuBJECT: Attempted shipment of mercury at Manzanillo
1—1055
on the AZUMA MARU.
894.24/1742
5
GOFFICE OF THE ADWSER ON
12
THE HONORABLE
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
TrOct17D
2
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
COMMUNI
E
WASHINGTON. DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1730
SIR:
I have the honor to refer to my telegram of
October 5/7:00 a.m. and subsequent messages relating
to an attempt to ship flasks of mercury on the Japan-
ese vessel AZUliA iARU concealed in iron drums mani-
fested as containing bronze, and in this connection
to report further as follows.
At 1:00 a.m. in the morning of 0ctober 5, 1941
894.24
the undersigned officer made a routine inspection of
the goods which were to be embarked on the AZUMA MARU.
While making this inspection it was notiged that at
this early hour one of the local customs house brokers
was unloading a shipment of iron drums from a freight
car to a barge. Although it was known that these
drums supposedly contained bronze, the fact that it
took four men to lift a drum onto a wheelbarrow plus
the fact that Mr. Llorens (the customshouse broker)
FILED
was personally supervising the unloading seemed strange.
A few minutes later another local customshouse6
19
broker informed me that he had been approached with an
Oonfidential F
offer of 25,000 pesos to ship mercury flasks out in
boxes of resin. The informant stated that the offer
had been made in an unsigned letter and that later a
Japanese from Mexico City named Nagabuchi repeated the
offer over the phone by referring to this letter.
Upon the strength of these additional facts, I,
1942
accompanied by the British Vice Consul (who had received
much the same information), awakened the chief of
customs and informed him that I was certain thet-an
attempt was being made to ship. contraband on the AZUMA
MARU. Mr. Terminel (chief of customs) immediately
stated that he would suspend all exportations until
after

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
after an inspection in the morning. He dressed and
went down personally to give the orders to suspend
all movements, and then cited all the interested
parties for an inspection at 8:00 a.m.
In the morning Mr. Terminel gave orders to open
as many of the boxes and drums as was necessary to
satisfy myself and the British Vice Consul that no
contraband was in the lot. No evidence of illegal
goods was found in either the turpentine or the resin,
but upon the breaking open of the first drum supposed-
1y containing bronze, five flasks of mercury were dis-
covered. While hammering on the second barrel a mer-
cury flask was broken open and the contents spilled.
Immediately, this whole shipment was declared
embargoed, and ordered returned to the customshouse
for opening. To date the task of cutting open the
347 drums has not been completed, and therefore the
total number of mercury flasks contained therein is
not available. However, it seems reasonable to expect
that the majority will contain mercury.
Mr. Antonio Llorens was the local shipper of the
goods, and the bronze was manifested as having been
shipped to Manzanillo from Mexico City by Ramon Obregón
Insurgentes # 430 (148 drums) and Luis Basuto, Palma
#34 (199 drums). However, it is believed that these
last two are fictitious names and that the real person
behind this transaction is Mr. A. Z. Phillips of
Mexico City. The possiblity also arises that Phillips
is working in combination with Nagabuchi, the Japanese
previously mentioned in this despatch. Llorens pro-
fesses complete ignorance of the fact that the ship-
ment contained mercury, and while not many persons are
inclined to believe his story, there seems quite a
possibility that he may be able to escape punishment
this way. Phillips has shipped a great deal of mer-
cury as well as other strategic materials in the past
through this port to Japan and Jianchuko, and has used
Mr. Llorens as his broker in most instances. Phillips
has a bad reputation in this port, and it is understood
that he has also been under suspicion in Mexico City.
Both the customshouse broker named in paragraph
three of this despatch and the local acting manager
of the NYK Line have stated that Phillips was involved
in the transaction.
In view of this discovery it seems probable that
mercury also went out on the Japanese vessel HEIYo
MARU when it sailed from this port on September 18,
1941, inasmuch as 150 drums of bronze were shipped by
A. Z. Phillips consigned to order of shipper at Shanghai.
As of possible interest there are enclosed here-
with copies of newspaper articles relating to the pre-
sent shipment as well as a photograph of the unopened
drums

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
drums while still in the lighter.
Respectfully yours,
Henry X.Hayt
HenryA. Hoyt
AmericanVice Consur
Enclosures:
1.-Copy of press notice.
2.-Copy of press notice.
3.-Copy of press notice.
4.-Copy of press notice.
5.-Photograph of drums containing contraband.
File No. 71l.2
AH/1g
In quadruplicate to the Department;
Criginal by Airmail;
Copy to mbassy;
Copy to Consulate General;
Copy to laval Attaché;
Copy to Consul at Guadalajara.
an 1061

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.97)
elosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 17, dated October 9,
1941 from Henry A. Hoyt, American Vice Consul, at
Manzanillo, Mexico on subject of "Attempted Shipment
of Mercury at Manzanillo on the AZUMA MARU".
COPY
EL INFORMADOR
T11
CONTRABANDO DE METALES PARA EL EJE,
DESCUBIERTO EN EL PUERTO DE MANZANILLO
(Por Hilo Directo)
Mexico, D. F. 5 de octubre.-Las autoridades
aduanales del puerto de Manzanillo, sorprendieron
alli un fuerte contrabando de plomo y de mercurio,
que se pretendia embarcar en el vapor japonés
"Azuma-maro."
Se dice que elementos al servicio de los paises
totalitarios, entre ellos algunos agentes aduanales,
trataban de utilizar el puerto de Manzanillo como lugar
de abastecimiento para las potencias del Eje.
Las autoridades de Hacienda han iniciado una
investigación, lo mismo que las de la Secretaria de
Gobernación.

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.99)
nolosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 17, dated October 9, 1941,
from Henry A. Hoyt, American Vice Consul at Manzanillo,
Mexico, on subject of "Attempted Shipment of Mercury at
Manzanillo on the AZUMA MARU".
COPY
EL INFORMADOR
Guadalajara, Mexico,
October 6, 1941.
EL CONTRABANDO
DE LOS METALES
PARA EL EJE.
(Por Hilo Directo)
Mexico, D. F., Octubre 6.Se asegura que asciende a
millón y medio de pesos el contrabando de mercurio y plomo
sorprendido en Manzanillo, Col., y el cual investigan
actualmente las Secretarias de Hacienda, Economia y Comuni-
caciones.
El contrabando fué descubierto por las autoridades
navales del Pacifico, en tambores de petroleo, marcados con
la leyenda de "objetos de bronce", conteniendo cosa de uno
y cinco frascos de mercurio de setenta y cinco libras cada
uno, siendo un total de trescientos tambores los que se
pretendian exnortar a bordo de un vapor japonés. Se dice
que ya anteriormente otro barco japonés llevó ciento
cincuenta tambores con mercurio.
INVESTTGACTONES
(por hilo directo)
Mexico, D. F. octubre 6. Se informó que por acuerdo de
la Secretaria de Hacimnda, la Dirección General de Aduanas
hace ya una investigación del supuesto contrabando del barco
japonés "Azuma Maru".
Con tal motivo, la citada dependencia se ha dirigido por
la via mas rápida al visitador especial de Aduanas que se
halla en Manzanillo, Colima, ordenándole que informe detallada-
mente sobre cuanto se relaciona con el particular, a fin de
establecer la verdad.

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.99)
Mosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 17, dated October 9, 1941,
Tom Henry A. Hoyt, American Vice Consul at Manzanillo,
Mexico on subject of "Attempted Shipment of Mercury at
Manzanillo on the Azuma Maru."
COPY
EECELSIOR
Mexico, D. F.
October 6, 1941.
CONTRABANDO PARA EL EJF DESCUBRESE EN MANZANILLO
Manzanillo, Col., octubre 5. Acaba de ser descubierto
en este puerto un fuerte contrabando de plomo y mercurio
que se trataba de embarcar en el vapor japonés "Azuma Maru".
Agentes aduanales, al servicio de los totalitarios,
trataban de onvertir este puerto en lugar de abastecimientos
para el Eje, a espaldas de las aut oridades y violando los
compromisos internacionales de Mexico.
Los consulados inglés y americano han intervenido
activamente en este asunto, que ha causado gran sensación
en todos los circulos de este puerto.
El Mercurio se Habia Camouflado
En fuentes dignas de todo crédito de esta ciudad, se
nos dieron los siguientes informes sobre el contrabando de
mercurio y plomo a que alude el telegrama de Manzanillo.
En estos momentos se investiga si el caso de contra-
bando a que los referimos formaba parte de un sistema o
programa de contrabando en gran escala y periodico, o si
únicamente se trata de un caso ais lado.
Hace varias semanas que, por decreto presidencial,
consecuencia del pacto comercial firmado entre Mexico y los
Estados Unidos, se suspendieron los envios de mercurio
nacional al Japón, que hasta esa fecha habia sido un
importante consumidor.
Por lo que hace al contrabando descubierto, las
autoridades portuarias de Manzanillo han revelado, segun
nuestros informantes, que el mercurio se encontraba
"camouflado" entre mercancia varia, en frascos con capacidad
para 76 libras cada uno. Hemos logrado saber que algunos
miembros de la embajada del Japon en Washington, se en-
contraban ayer en Manzanillo, esperando el arribo de un
enviado especial de Tokio en Washington, señor Wakasagu,
quien, segun nuestros informantes, trae un mensaje personal
del Principe Konoye, Premier del Japôn, al Presidente
Roosevelt.
El ministro Wakasagu debia llegar a bordo del transporte
japonés Terukawa. A última hora, empero, se ha sabido aqui
que el mencionado transporte atracô en el puerto de Adapulco
ayer, y que el ministro continuó anoche mismo su viaje a esta
capital.

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.98)
2.
re No. 4 to Despatch No. 17, dated October 9, 1941,
Henry A. Hoyt, American Vice Consul at Manzanillo,
so on subject of "Attempted Shipment of Mercury at
zanillo on the AZUM& MARU".
EXCELSTOR
MAS DE MEDIO MILLON VALE EL CONTRABANDO
Mexico, D.F.
October 7, 19
MERCURIAL DESCUBIERTO EN MANZANILLO
Las Secretarias de la Economia y Commnicaciones se
Han Puesto de Acuerdo Para Investigar el Caso, y
Ordenaron que se Hicéeron Pesquisas.
De acuerdo con los datos obtenidos por EXCELSIOR anoche,
a un millon quinientos mil pesos asciende el contrabando de
mercurio descubierto el dia de ayer en el puerto de Manzanillo,
y que ya investigan las secretarias de Economia y de Comuni-
caciones y Obras Publicas.
Se intentaba mandar al Japon el cargamento, a bordo del
transperte-ae ese pais, "Azuma Maru"; pero fué descubierto por
las autoridades portuarias, a pesar de que su existencia se
disimulaba en tambores de petrôleo marcados con la leyenda
"objetos de bronce". Aunque en realidad contenian, cada uno,
cinco frascos de mercurio de 75 libras. Nuestros informantes
manifiestan que el contrabando que trataba de fletarse a bordo
del "Azuma Maru", consistia en 300 tambores de petr6leo.
Toma cuerpo—agregase--la hipôtesis de que la partida des-
cubierta e sólo una fracción de las exportaciones ilegales y
en enorme escala, de mercurio mexicano que subrepticiamente
se manda al pais oriental.
El Haiyu Maru Tambien Lleva Azogue
Se agrega que otro barco japónes el "Haiyu Maru", que
zarpó de Manzanillo el pasado 18 de septiembre, 1lemaba a bordo
150 tambores, tamb1én bajo el subterfugio de encerrar "objetos
de bronce". Nuestros informantes, personas allegadas a las
fuentes oficiales que investigan el contrabando, manifiestan
que existen suficientes datos para suponer que el "Haiyu Maru"
lev6 anclas repleto de azogue.
Las dos secretarias de Estado msmatzahm susodichas, han
ordenado, a las autoridades fiscales de Manzanillo, "ahonden
la investigación y procedan a imponer todo el rigor de la ley,
en los casos que asi lo ameritaren".
Se ha Ordenado La Investigacion
Por acuerdo de la Secretaria de Hacienda y Crédito Publicok
la Dirección General de Aduanas hace ya la investigación del
contrabando, que, segun informes publicados en los diarios
de fecha reciente, fué descubierto en el barco "japonés
Azuma Maru".
En vista de tal información la citada dependencia, por la
vía mas rápida, ordenó al visitador especial de aduanas que se
halla en el puerto de Manzanillo, Col., informe detalladamente
sobre cuanto se relacione con ese particular, a fin de que se
pueda establecer, de manera oficial, lo que haya de cierto en
ello.

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.97)
No. 5 to Despatch No. 17, dated Octoper 9
Ifrbm Henry A. Hoyt, American Vice Consul, at
inzanillo, Mexico on subject of "Attempted Shipment
or Mercury at Manzanillo on the AZUMA MARU".
View of 347 iron drums manifested
as containing bronze

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.98)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
Japanese army equipment and supplies. Conveesation with Mr.
SUBJECT
Norman Towson of the Treasury Department conoerning his inter-
view with Mr. Nishiyama yesterday with respect to provision
of free funds by the Japanese for the purchase of oil.
Mr. Nishiyamasaid he was endeavoring to have funds trans-
ferred from South America to the U. S. to pay for oil for the
two tankers now in San Frahoisoo.
894.24/1743
fp
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Memo.
(Despakch, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)
1743
From
State Dept.
DatedSept.5,1941
To A-A (Aoheson )
840.51 Frozen Credita/3650
File No.
B. 8. GOVERNKENT PRINTING OFFICE 1-1540

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.97)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Petroleum shipment to Japan from the Netherlands East
Indies: Informs of conversation between Baron van Boetzalaer
and Dean Acheson concerning -.
894.24/1744
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See Namorandum
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, eta.)
State Department
From
Dated.Saptamber..5,1941
Acheson
To
File No. 893.51/2313
U. 8. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1-1540

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.95)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Japenese army equipment and supplies. conversation with the
Counselr of the Japanese Embassy concerning exports of petreleum
from the U. S. to Japan. He said that the Treasury Department
in Tpkyo had requested information as to whethor or not Japanese
companies would definitely be able to export petroloum products
of non- prohibited categories if Japanese dollar balances in 0
Latin America were transferred here for that purpose.
94.241745
fp
For the original paper from which reference is taken
—1×∠/
See
WemO.
(Despakok, telegram, instruction, letter, stc.)
From
Dated_Seot.4.1941
State Department
To
Div. of Cantrols (Yost )
File No.
840.51 Frozen Credits/3636
8. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OPFICE 1—1540

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.98)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Attempts of Japanese Govt. to arrange with Chile
a barter deal of cement for minerals.
Information concerning-.
1b
804.24/1746
For the original paper from which reference is taken
1746
See
Note
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, sto.)
894.24
From
British Embassy
Dated_Sept._10,194l
-To-
File No.
811.90 Dafensa(M)/30
U. S. GOVEMNNENT PRINTING OFFICE 1-1560

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.96)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
to Japan at specified dates:
Submits report of -.
894.24/1747
(x<1
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See ...Memorandum
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, sto.)
From
Controls Division
Dated Saptamber..12,1941
To
Bernes
File No. ..893.24/1167
U. S. GOVERNNINT PRINTING OFPICE 1-1540

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.96)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Efforts of Japanese Government to borrow from Germany
funds to effect part payment for or-hides bought
in Argentina.
Information concerning the,-
FIH
894.24/1748
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
NOTE
(Despaick, selegram, instruction, letter, eta.)
1748
From
Dated...Sept 23.1941
British Embassy
To
Con-tial Pile
File No.
894.51/744
Cosfidestial Fe
U. S. GOVEMNNENT PRINTING OPFICE 1-1540

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.99)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Mauricio Hochschild.
Transmits copy of letter from British Embassy
re activities of - in the mineral industry.
894.24/1749
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
#1894
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, eta.)
From
Chile (Bowers)
Dated
October 3, 1941
File No.
862.20210 Hochschild, Maurici•/11
AB

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 25, 1941
FI conours in the suggestion that we re-
lease to Japan cotton purohased by the
Japanese prior to freezing in exchange for the
release by Japan of American-owned goods held
in Japan. It is noted from the file that India
1s allowing the exportation to Japan of cotton
covered by confirmed credits prior to the
freezing order, and that the British are allow-
ing the use of blocked funds to cover pre-
freezing obligations and commitments (goods in
transit, eto.).
4
Sep.26
894.24
FE:Jonqs:HNS

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ADVISER ON POLITICAL RELATIONS
September 24, 1941.
ooneur, right straight through, in
xpressions of opinion which I find in
I conour in the recommendations with
regard to petroleum and iron ore--except
that I would suggest that, in imparting to
the British and the Dutch information regard-
ing our position and intentions, we do so
in general and guarded terms rather than in
terms of a promise or agreement.
With regard to cotton, I suggest that
the question be "let ride" for the present--
with an expectation that before long we
will arrive at an opportune moment for
taking the action recommended; and that we
so inform the British.
Assistant Secretary 4
of State
y0 Sep26-1941
MR
ACHESON
PA/H: SKH: FLB

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.97)
Assistant Secretary
4
DEPARTMENT OF STASE p26-1941
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRSSON
September 24, 1941.
Under procedure and practice now in ef-
sot in the United States, no exports to
apan of petroleum products and of cotton
ire taking place. It 1s believed advisable
to have this situation continue, but not to
tell the Japanese that exports of all
potroleum products and of all cotton to
Japan have been prohibited. It 1s there-
fore suggested that the British and the
Dutoh might be told that. with regard to
petroleum products and cotton no exporta-
tion from the United States to Japan 1s
now taking place and that if there is
any change in that situation we shall ex-
peet to inform them in advance of the
changes to be made.
With regard to exports of iron ore
from the Philippine Islands, FE concurs
in the proposal made. FE suggests that
rather than send Mr. Sayre a telegram
informing him that no future applications
for license to export iron ore to the
Philippines would be granted it might be
preferable to ask Mr. Sayre simply to
refer all future applications for iron
ore shipments to Japan to the Department.
The Department could then simply refrain
from taking affirmative action.
mim A.
nem
FE:10H:HES

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
September 22, 1941
Mr. Secretary:
TRADE WITH JAPAN
There are attached two memoranda which survey the
894.24/1750
policies and practices of the British Empire, the
Netherlands East Indies, and the United States regarding
trade with Japan. Except for iron ore, manganese,
petroleum and cotton (exports of which the British and
Dutch are prepared to prohibit if we do so), the three
countries have decided as a matter of policy to cut off
exports to Japan of products useful from a military view-
point.
The survey indicates that, contrary to our assumption,
we have not gone farther in our restrictions on Japan
OCT:20 1941
than the British and the Dutch. Their policy decisions
are in advance of ours in many respects. Our own policy,
owing in part to the dual control which we exercise ever
trade with Japan through export control and financial
control, 1s obscure and not fully developed.
In so far as the actual treatment of trade with
Japan is concerned, as distinguished from the policy de-
cisions, the situation is about the same in all three
countries. Trade is virtually at a standstill.
The

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
The obsourity of our policy and the complexity of
our financial and export controls have given rise in
recent weeks to increasing uneasiness on the part of the
British and Dutch regarding our intentions. They have
expressed to us their desire for a more definitive but
private statement of our policy, including our views on
the products mentioned above, regarding which they are
2
prepared to take action parallel to ours. In this con-
X
nection, there are attached a letter from Mr. Noel Hall
of September 13, a memorandum from the British Embassy
of September 22, a despatch of September 3 from
Minister Biddle, and two memoranda of conversations with
the Minister-Counselor of the Netherlands Legation.
The British and Dutch have told us that they will
go as far as we will, but that they do not want to get
ahead of us. Today, for the first time, and after years
of effort, we have achieved effective joint action against
Japan. Indecision or the evidence of weakness on our
part will endanger this common front.
Recommendatione
There are certain questions now before us involving
parallel action with the British and Dutch which require
immediate and clear action. The recommendations made
below regarding these questions would require no public
announcements.

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
announcements. In no case would they result in any
actual change in our current exports, which are nil due
to a combination of export control, payment difficulties
and suspension of shipping facilities.
Petroleum
At present no petroleum is moving to Japan from any
of the three countries. However, there are applications
pending before both us and the Dutch which require im-
mediate clarification.
(1) Tentative export quotas (of which the British and
Dutch have been advised) have been worked out by the
United States, but exportation is dependent upon the is-
suance of both export licenses and financial licenses.
There are three export licenses outstanding for petroleum
products valued at $178,000, for which no Treasury licenses
have been granted because of the inability of Japan to
arrange satisfactory methods of payment. The Japanese
have recently informed us that they are not prepared to
meet our suggested methods of payment (use of cash held
in this country by Japan or, possibly, use of concealed
Japanese dollar balances held in South America). They
now suggest that payment be made by the shipment to this
country of gold or of American currency which they have
managed to accumulate in the Far East, particularly in
Shanghai. (Payment in gold is ruled out by the policy
decision

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.99)
-4
decision approved by the President not to permit the im-
portation of gold from Japan). We are under no obligation
to the Japanese to consider either method of payment,
since the only methods discussed with them have been those
which they have now rejected.
(2) American oil companies have applied to the Dutch
for export licenses, but the Dutch have held up issuance
of licenses for the reason that licenses for payment have
not been granted by the United States. Should we grant
these licenses for payment, our action would be inter-
preted by the Dutch as an indication that we want to see
the oil exported.
Knowledge by the Dutch of our tentative export quotas
(which they regard as excessive) and the delay in clarify-
ing our position on the question of payment for both
American and Indies oil has caused them to become in-
creasingly uneasy.
It is recommended:
(a) That we inform the Japanese that the methods of
payment proposed by them are not acceptable.
(b) That we inform the British and Dutch in strict
confidence that if they are prepared to act similarly, we
will not permit further exports of petroleum products.
Iron Ore

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.99)
-5
Iron Ore
Malaya has exported iron ore to Japan for many years.
During the last few years the Philippines have also entered
this trade. Malayan exports in the most recent years have
amounted to about 2,000,000 tons; Philippine exports to
about 1,150,000 tons. Japan also imports fairly sub-
stantial quantities of pig iron from India.
The British state that, through prohibition of night
loading and night clearance, they have reduced exports
from Malaya by about forty percent. A quota of 525,000
tons was fixed for exports from the Philippines for the
last seven months of this year, which is equivalent to
an annual level of 800,000 tons or a restriction roughly
comparable to that on Malayan exports. However, because
of heavy exports during the early months of this year,
Philippine exports for 194l as a whole will show little
or no reduction from the high levels of recent years.
The British have now informed us that they are pre-
pared to prohibit the exportation of iron ore from Malaya
if we will prohibit exports from the Philippines.
It is recommended:
(a) That we agree to the British proposal on condition
that exports of pig iron from India be prohibited.
(b) That we tell the High Commissioner to suspend the
issuance of new licenses pending further instructions,
and

=== Page 296 === (confidence 1.00)
-6
and that we review the situation with regard to any out-
standing licenses.
Cotton
Over a period of recent years, the United States and
India have had roughly equal shares in the Japanese cotton
market, the ratio from year to year depending to a large
extent on price factors. During the past year, exports
of American cotton to Japan were extremely small, while
Indian exports continued at the level of the last few
years.
Sinoe the freezing order, no cotton has been exported
from the United States to Japan, although some has con-
tinued to move to occupied China. Exports from India to
Japan have been limited on a monthly basis to the 1940
level in so far as they were covered by confirmed credits
prior to the freezing order. (Exports to occupied China are
also tentatively limited to the 194o level). These credits
are practically exhausted. The British have offered to
reduce exports to Japan to whatever level (in terms of
value) that we reduce.
It is recommended:
(a) That we accept the British offer and inform them
that we are prepared to withhold Treasury licenses for
the exportation of cotton, except for cotton bought
by the Japanese prior to freezing, the release of which
would be dependent upon arrangement being made for the
reciprocal

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
reciprocal release of American-owmed goods by Japan.
(b) That we approach the British with a view to work-
ing out an arrangement for restricting exports of cotton
to occupied China to reliable British, American and
Chinese mills.
I also recommend that, with reference to each of
these products, we inform the British and Dutch that if
future events should warrant any changes in our policy,
we would discuss the changes with them in advance of
taking action.
In conclusion,.I should like to emphasize again my
feeling that, unless we give the British and Dutch a
clear statement of our policy and take immediate and
decisive action on the questions now before us, the whole
program of concerted action against Japan will be
seriously imperiled and, in my opinion, if it collapses
it can, in all probability, not again be resurrected
within the foreseeable future.
Dean Acheson

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
September 22, 1941
RESTRICTIONS ON JAPANESE TRADE AND PAYMENTS IN
THE BRITISH EMPIRE
All British countries have frozen Japanese assets.
According to the British Embassy, all have agreed in
prinoiple to the policy adopted by the British Government
of restricting exports to Japan to the minimum level neces-
sary to obtain essential imports from Japan.
894.24/1750
As a practical matter trade between the British
Empire and Japan is virtually at a standstill.  Except for
manganese and iron ore from Malaya and cotton from India,
exports to Japan of products valuable from a military view-
point have been completely cut off.
Considerable detailed information is available regard-
ing the measures taken with regard to Japanese trade and
payments by the British Government. It is stated by the
British Embassy that the British Government has recommended
to the Dominions, India, and Burma that they adopt measures
similar to those of the British Government. There is
given, on the following pages, a statement in outline form
of measures taken by the British Government regarding
Japanese trade and payments and, in a parallel column, the
22
measures taken by the United States so far as a comparable
PS/MM
and Burma.
Measuree

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Measures adopted by the British
Measures adopted by the United State
Blocked Accounts
Blocked Accounts
1. All existing accounts and any new
1. Same.
payments into such accounts are blocked.
2. Use of blocked funds is permitted for:
2.
(a) Pre-freezing obligations and
(a) In some cases payment has been per
commitments (goods in transit,
mitted, in others it has not.
eto.).
Protection of American interest
has been an element in the de
termination of permissible cases.
(b) Loan service.
(b) Payment of several instalments
have been permitted, but polioy
with regard to future instalments
is still unsettled.
(c) Payments for living expenses, salaries
(c) Same.
to employees, etc.
3. Frozen funds may not be used for payment
3. Frozen funds may not be used for pay-
for new exports.
ments for exports until cash and Japanese
balances in Latin America have been used
up. If cash and balances in Latin Amer
ica are used up, under present policy
determinations the use of blocked funds
would then presumably be permissible for
the payment of such exports as might be
permitted.
Exports
Exports
1. Exports will be permitted only to the
Exports of the following products
extent necessary to meet essential import
are permissible:

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
Measures adopted by the British
Measures adopted by the United
requirements from Japan. (See "imports").
Petroleum Producte.
1. Policy decisions to date: Certain
2. In general, permitted exports will
types of crude petroleum and lower
be confined as far as possible to those
grade petroleum products only, sub-
products least essential to Japan. Food-
ject to quotas which in certain im-
stuffs (except oil seeds), being re-
portant cases are not restriotive.
garded as among the least essential produots,
These quotas are, however, being re-
are at the top of the permitted list.
considered.
3. The British will aim to grant export
2. Factual situation at present: As
licenses in no case where exports from
a result of the conditions imposed
the United States are prohibited.
under the export control and financial
control, no exports of petroleum
4. Special provision has been made in the
products to Japan have taken place.
case of:
Three export licenses have been granted,
to a value of $178,000, but exports
(a) Malaya, from which exports of
have not been permitted in view of the
iron ore and manganese ore are
inability of the Japanese to arrange
still permitted.
satisfactory methods of payment.
Iron ore and manganese ore exports
Iron ore.
have, according to the British,
1. According to present policy de
been reduced by some 40 percent
cisions, exports from the Philippines
through "defense regulations" pro-
are permitted subject to a quota
hibiting night loading and night
which will not effect a significant
clearance of vessels. The British
reduction in exports during the present
are now prepared to cut off ex-
calendar year as compared with the
ports of both products if similar
record export figure of 1940.
steps-are taken in the Philippines.
(Exports of manganese ore from the
2. As a result of the shipping situa-
Philippines are now in fact pro-
tion no exports of iron ore are being
hibited).
made.
(b) Cotton exports from India. Exports
Manila fiber and cordage. Lower grades
tentatively limited on a monthly
may be exported from the Philippines
basis to the 1940 level in so far as they subject to quotas.
were covered by confirmed credits prior
to the freezing order. These credits
will shortly become exhausted. The

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.99)
-4
Measures adopted by the British
Measures adopted by the United
British offer to reduce exports to any figure
Cotton. Exports of $600,000 worth a
(in terms of value) to which we reduce.
month will be permitted according to
present polioy decisions. None has
been exported since the freezing
orders became effeotive, owing to the
shipping and payments situation.
Importe
Imports
As stated above, only essential im-
No imports from Japan are regarded
ports will be permitted.
as essential.
(a) The only essential import required
No imports of silk will be permitted
by the United Kingdom is stated to
be L 60,000 of magnesium for making
No decision has been reached withpre
incendiary bombs.
gard to imports of other products. At
present there are no imports, due to the
(b) A statement of products regarded
payments and shipping situation.
as essential has not been re-
ceived from all the colonies.
Textiles are considered essential
or highly desirable by the Near
and Far Eastern colonies which have
reported. (Inquiry is being made
of the British Government as to the
quantities and types needed. The
Únited States may prove to be a prac-
tical alternative source of supply,
a development which would reduce or
eliminate the chief need for con-
tinuance of any trade with Japan on
the part of the British Empire.
Trade with Occupied China
Trade with Occupied China
1. Exports to China, except via the Burma
1. A general license has been granted un
Road, are subject to license. Pending the
der the freezing order for trade with
working out of detailed arrangements, the
China. However, control is exereised

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.99)
-5
Measures adopted by the British
Measures adopted by the United
intention is to permit trade to continue
over shipments to China through export
on a normal basis as far as this can be
control in the case of produots sub-
done without risking advantage to the
ject to control for which no general
Japanese. (The British feel that a certain
license has been granted. All important
part of exports to occupied China can
export products are subject to export
eventually be expected to find their way
control except cotton.
into unoccupied territory.)
2. (a) Exports are permitted to oo-
2. During the interim period, licenses
cupied areas only if the produots
will be granted freely within the limits of
seem to be vital to the preser
normal trade except in the following cases:
vation of properties owned by
American or British, are needed
(a) Products not available for supply
for the operation of public
reasons.
utilities, or are necessary for
reasons of public health.
(b) A specific list which includes fats
and oils, iron and steel, scrap
(b) No export licenses are granted
metal, all non-ferrous ores and
for shipments to Japanese con-
metals except lead and zinc, rub-
signees in occupied areas.
ber, diamonds, and other important
products. (Comment: This pro-
hibited list will prevent leakage
to the Japanese of products which they
are particularly anxious to get.)
(c) Specific shipments to undesirable
consignees.
3. When administrative machinery is fully
3. Consideration is being given to the
organized, these arrangements will be
tightening of control over transactions
tightened up as much as possible without
with occupied China.
causing injury to friendly interests.
Control will be established through in-
vestigation of consignees and establish-
ment of quotas on particular products.
4. Cotton exports from India are being ten-
4. Exports of cotton to occupied China,
tatively limited, on a monthly basis, to
as stated above, are not subject to export
the 1940 level. A further investigation
control. (Shipments since the freezing

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.99)
-6
Measures adopted by the British
Measures adopted by the United
of Chinese needs is in progress.
order appear to have exceeded a million
dollars in value.) Consideration is
now being given to this situation.
Bunkering of Japanese vessela
Bunkering of Japanese vessels
The British grant bunkers only suf-
1. Bunkers are granted only suffioient
ficient to take the vessel to the next
to take the vessel to the next fueling
fueling port and, whenever practicable,
port. Some delay might result from the
delay the delivery of bunkers 48 hours.
operation of the ship-warrant system
The same practice is followed by British
when it is placed in operation.
companies in all non-British ports where
they are able to do so in view of com-
2. In the bunkering of Japanese vessels
petitive factors.
in Latin America, Shell and International
Petroleum (a Canadian corporation sub-
The British are anxious to obtain our
sidiary of Standard Oil of New Jersey)
cooperation in applying this practice
operate under British and Canadian direo-
through Latin America.
tion. Standard of New Jersey, which
operates in four countries, is giving
no bunkers to Japanese vessels.

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
Canada
Blocked Accounts.
Assets of residents of Japan have been frozen.
Accounts of Japanese nationals in Canada (of whom there
are about 20,000, mostly fishermen) have not been frozen,
but consideration is being given to imposing limitations
on withdrawals, partly because of the measures applied
to Canadians in Japan.
Trade in General.
Trade with Japan is at a standstill. The Canadian
Legation states that Canada is cooperating fully with the
UnitedStates and the British Government in restricting
trade with Japan. Restriction of Canadian trade with
Japan has been effected not only by the measures under-
taken by the Canadian Government, but also by the operation
of our own freezing, since Canadian trade with Japan is
conduoted in United States dollars.
Exporte.
Exports had been restricted, prior to freezing, to
products not useful from a military viewpoint and only
one small cargo of wood products and paper ($19,0o0 in
value) has left since freezing.
All exports to Japan are subject to export licenses.
The

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.99)
-8
The only licenses outstanding at the time of the freezing
order, for 7,000 tons of wheat, have been recalled. Li-
denses are being granted only for the personal effects of
persons returning to Japan.
Importe
There have been no imports from Japan since the
freezing order. Lic enses for imports will be granted
only for products needed for military purposes, and it is
believed that the requirements for such products will be
virtually nil.
Trade with Occupied China
A certain amount of miscellaneous cargo is being
permitted to go to Shanghai and some wheat has been ex-
ported to Tientsin. Control is exercised by refusal of
shipment to undesirable consignees, reports being obtained
from the Canadian Trade Commissioner in Shanghai.
No special measures have been taken with regard to
imports from China.
Australia
Trade with Japan is at a standstill. One vessel has
come to Australia since the freezing order. It was per-
mitted to discharge its cargo and take on a cargo of wool
of equal value. Apparently the wool had been purchased
prior to the freezing order, although this is not entirely
clear.
New Zealand

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
New Zealand
The statement received from the New Zealand Govern-
ment by the British indicates that it may not regard any
imports from Japan as essential.
South Africa
The statement received by the British from the Govern-
ment of South Africa implies that no imports are regarded
as essential. The Department has been informed by the
British Embassy that South Africa is withholding licenses
for the export to Japan of fluorspar and "all other im-
portant commodities".
India
Aside from exports of coir and cotton, trade is at
a standstill. Exports of cotton covered by pre-freezing
confirmed credits are being permitted within the limits
of the 1940 level. These credits are now practically
exhausted.
Burma
While no imports from Japan are considered essential,
the Governor has stressed in his reply to the British
Government the need for export outlets.
Eire
All exports go through the United Kingdom and are
there

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.99)
-10
there subject to British export control. The Eire
Government has imposed control over withdrawals from
Japanese accounts.
A-A:JJR:MFA

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.96)
Assistant Sedret
of Sta
S-1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MB. ACHESON
ADVISER ON POLITICAL RELATIONS
September 20, 1941.
RESTRICTIONS ON JAPANESE TRADE AND PAYMENTS IN THE NETHERLANDS
EAST INDIES.
1. Present factual situation. In fact trade is at a standstila
and all Japanese funds have been frozen. Apparently permission 1s
00
94.24/17
granted for withdrawals for local transactions by Japanese resident
in the Indies.
2. Policy decisions thus far made by the Indies Government.
The Government of the Netherlands Indies has not definitively
59
adopted a detailed policy because we have as yet been unable to in-
form it that we have adopted a definitive policy.* It has assured
us that it desires to adopt a policy no less restrictive than
58
whatever policy we adopt. Like the British Government it has stated
its need for assuring itself of certain types of imports--especially
of cotton textiles which, incidentally, may be obtainable from the
United States. The Indies Government is also desirous of obtain-
ing certain specific lots of goods purchased and already paid for
which the Japanese Government is holding in Japan. It has, in ad-
dition, made specific proposals to us as to what restrictions should
in its opinion be adopted. (See next three paragraphs.)
3. Specific policy proposals made by Indies Government.
ABC
*The Dutch have of course been told what our policy is to date
in theory and in actual practice. As they have, however, had no
P
they have been faced for some weeks past with the issue (whioh we
have not yet had to consider) of whether exports to Japan of import
products shall in fact be permitted. Not wishing to permit such
exports while we are not in fact exporting to Japan they have so far
refused to grant export licenses for products of importance.

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
As early as August 4 the Governor General of the Indies set
forth in some .detail proposals for a restrictive policy.
The Netherlands Legation believes that Mr. Loudon informed the
Under Secretary, the Secretary and Dr. Hornbeck of these
proposals on August 4, August 8 and August 9, respectively,
but the Department has no record thereof. In this memorandum
the general principle is enunciated that "all supplies
enlarging or maintaining Japan's military machine" should
be reduced as far as possible. It is then specifically
stated that such a policy would mean the embargo of all
exports of: bauxite, manganese, palm oil, rubber, tin,
resins, Kapok, nickel ore, salt, rope fiber, scrap iron,
tanning materials and two other less important products
(ilmenite, which is a mineral containing iron and titanium,
and ajarakpits, which are fruit pits of unknown importance).
It is further stated that exports of coffee, lumber, maize,
cassave, cotton (of which the Netherlands East Indies are
negligible producers), sugar and some minor items could be
restricted to normal amounts. On the assumption that it
should be considered undesirable entirely to cut off Japan's
oil supply, it is stated that oil exports could be restricted
to the 1935-1936 level, which in the case of the Indies
it is stated would mean a fifty per cent reduction. Light
crude oil and gasoline of 69 octane content and higher
should

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
should be embargoed and restriotive quotas established for
diesel oil, fuel oil and gasoline. Exports of other non-
military supplies, including copra, could be restricted
to 1935-1936 levels or on some other basis. [Note. The
Legation has informed the Depertment that the memorandum
under reference sets forth the personal views of the Governor
General rather than official proposals of the Indies Govern-
ment, but that in view of the Governor General's position it
may be assumed that the Indies Government is prepared to adopt
the policy described.]
4. Petroleum (further specific proposals). On
September 15 the Legation informally notified the Department
that it believed that the Indies Government 1s prepared to
embargo all exports of petroleum to Japan if the United
States adopts a similar policy. (This had also been intimated
to Mr. Acheson earlier in his discussions with the Legation.)
On September 20 the Legation informed the Department that its
opinion on the matter of a total embargo had been confirmed
by the Indies Government although it had not been instructed.
to make any proposal on this matter to the Department. The
on September 15
Legation further stated/that if exports of oil are not to be
entirely out off the Indies Government is prepared to reduce
1ts quotas below the 1935-1936 level by more than one fourth.
(The Legation had previously notified the Department that
adoption

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
adoption of the 1935-1936 level--which would apparent1y not
result in restriction of United States exports of diesel oil
fuel oil and crude oil--would not be as restriotive of United
States exports of petroleum to Japan as it would be of Indies
exports.)
5. Petroleum (special statement of Indies policy).
The Department has been informed (ina telegram from Mr. Grew,
Tokyo's number 1310 of August 26, 9 p. m.) that on July 28
Mr. Van Hoogstraten of the Netherlands Indies Government
informed the Japanese Consul General at Batavia that the
Indies Government feele that the presence of Japanese troops
in Indochina is a threat to the Indies and that, consequently,
relations between the Indies and Japan have been completely
altered. He stated that thereafter no exports of oil to
Japan will be permitted unless (1) Japan publicly declares
that it has no intention of attacking the Indies and (2)
Japanese troops are withdrawn from southern Indochina. He
said further that if these two conditions are fulfilled, the
Indies Government will still allow only such types of oil
to be exported to Japan as will not increase Japan's offensive
military power.
6. Desire of Indies Government for political assurances.
Estimate of policy Indies Government is prepared to adopt.
Unlike the British Government, the Government of the
Netherlands

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
Netherlands East Indies has indicated that it believes that
discussion of and agreement upon related political issues
should accompany any final decision to adopt a definitive
policy of restriction toward Japan. The Legation has, however,
in recent weeks limited itself primarily to attempting to
ascertain the details of our definitive policy while assuring
us of the desire and intention of the Indies Government to
adopt a closely similar policy. It would appeer that,
regardless of the absence of political commitments, the
Indies are in fact prepared to pattern their policy closely
after whatever policy we adopt and that they believe it wise
to adopt a policy designed severely to restrict all supplies
having military or general industrial value. It is not believed
feasible to obtain more definite indications of Indies polioy
until we are in a position to propose a detailed policy for
adoption by us and by them.
2
PA/H:AHiss:FLB

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.94)
STATE
RECEIVED
Rued frnuing
OCT 20 1941
Sutid Enta
Memorandum
October 27, 1941
We are informed by London that a
ouu
common poliey towards Japan throughout the Empire
is now in force which in practice has brought almost
all trade to a standstill.
Sor State
India is only allowing exports of
.1.
SEP 2Q 1941
cotton within the limits of 1940 figures insofar as
894.24/1752
MR. ACHESON
they were covered by pre-zero confirmed credits.
These credits will shortly become exhausted.
Some iron ore and manganese from
Japanese mines in Malaya is still being exported penditg
a reply to the suggestion of joint action by the Philippines.
894.24
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
The Dutch have held up all oil shipments
O2
from the Netherlands East Indies and are only permitting
partment of State
the export from the Netherlands East Indies of small
quantities of other commodities paid for before the
Freezing Order. The extent of this trade is very small.
Cofies sent to Jokyo
The joint intention of ourselves and
OCT 3 0 1941
Cg(Peig) Bg
FILED
the Dutch is now to arrange to maintain complete immobili-
+ Comberra
zation except insofar as exports may be necessary to
obtain essential imports.
ON
POLIT
22nd September, 1941
ADVISER
OCT 20 1941
STATE

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.62)
fmion of the Amin
 t a y, ia e

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.98)
2265
To the American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
The Seoretary of State encloses for the striotly
confidential information of the American Ambassador a
copy of a memorandum of September 22, 194l, which was
received from the British Embassy, in regard to a common
policy now in force throughout the British Empire in
regard to Japan.
Enclosure:
From British Embassy,
894
September 22.
894.24/1752
Tokyo, Chungking (Peiping), Canberr
Held distribution:
Bangkek.

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.97)
attment of State
FE
ENCLOSURE
TO
Letter drafted.
ADDREHSED TO
American Ambassador,
Tokyo.

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.99)
British Embasey 9/22/41.
Initials 1llegible]
Mamorandum
We are informed by London that a common policy
towards Japan throughout the Empire is now in force
which in practice has brought almost all trade to a
standstill.
India is only allowing exports of cotton within
the limits of 1940 figures insofar as they were covered
by pre-zero confirmed credits. These credits will
shortly become exhausted.
Some iron ore and manganese from Japanese mines
in Malaya is still being exported pending a reply to the
suggestion of joint action by the Philippines.
The Dutch have held up all oil shipments from the
Netherlands East Indies and are only permitting the
export from the Netherlands East Indies of small quanti-
ties of other commodities paid for before the Freezing
Order. The extent of this trade is very small.
The joint intention of ourselves and the Dutch
is now to arrange to maintain complete immobilization
except insofar as exports may be necessary to obtain
essential imports.
22nd September, 1941

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.63)
   2,19, 
etved tree the hitish laeseét, ta regnd te ad
a  in frree througet the Tritiah apie

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.92)
October 27, 1941
SELAZLX CONIXREITIAL
2265
To the Aeerieam Ambessader,
Tokye.
The Seeretary of state eneloses for the strietly
confidemtial imformation of she Amerlean Lmbessader a
894.24/1752
eepy of a memerandum of September 22, 194l, whleh was
reselved frem the British Esbassy, in regard to a eommom
polley new in foree throughout the British Kmpire in
regard to Japan.
Eaclosure:
From British Eabassy,
September 22.
804.24/1762
Fiold distribution:
Tokyo, Chungking (Pelping), Canberra,
Bangkek.
0
S
/SMS
FEFEGCIMHP
FE
10/22/41
1001

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.98)
STRIOTLY CONFIDENTIAL - Not to be disseminated in any form as to
DECLASSIFIED
text or statistice.
E.0. 11652, Sec. 3(E) and 5(0) or (E)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
HiloptlamassiaRs. Datey 243/73
WASHINGTON
September 24, 1941.
TRADE OF THE UNITED STATES WITH JAPAN, CHINA, HO: KONG AND KWANTUNG,
JUNE 1941 AND SIX MONTHS ENDING JUNE 1941
Prepared in Far Eastern Unit in Cooperation with
Coordination of International Statistics Unit.
(The following statistical compilation with interpretative conment
on United States Trade with Japan, China, Hong Kong and Kwantung is
prepared for the information of Government Officials only and is not
to be disseminated either in whole or in part to outside interests)
JAPAN
Exports from the United States to Japan continued in a downward trend in
June with shipments valued at only $5,687,000 against $6,623,000 in May and
$15,095,000 in June 1940. Exports were confined almost exclusively to raw
cotton, valued at $1,580,c00, and petroleum products amounting to $3,469,000.
Machine tools, iron and steel products, and other metals essential in the
United States defense progran, and formerly shipped in large quantities to
Japan, were completely erased from the export list.
In the first six months of this year, our exports to Japan amounted to
only $53,032,000, or nearly 55 percent under the January-June 1940 total of
$106,965,000. Raw cotton, valued at $25,478,000 in the 1940 half year period,
dropped to a value of $4,762,000, this year. Iron and steel semimanufactures
totaled only $165,000 in the first six months of this year, against $15,174,000
in the corresponding period of l940, while metal-working nachinery was valued a
$837,000 against $15,488,000 in the first half of 1940. Sizeable recessions
occurred also in exports of refined copper, ferro-alloys, automotive products
and ammonium sulphate. The only notable increase in the half year trade was
a $6,000,000 gain in exports of petroluem products. Although exports of
25946

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.99)
of aviation gasoline and crude petroleum deolined, shipments of other gasoline
and lubricating oil were substantially higher than in the first half of l940.
In contrast to the decline in export trade, imports into the United
States from Japan moved forward during June to a value of $13,000,000 from
$10,869,000 in May, and were considerably higher than the June 1940 total of
$8,972,O00. a lerge part of the June increase was accounted for by speculative
buying of raw silk, importers laying: in stocks in view of disturbed American-
Japanese trade relations. Silk imports were valued at $9,226,000 against
$7,879,000 in May and $5,273,000 in June 1940.
General imports from Japan for the first half of 1940 were still some-
what below the January-June 1940 figure, amounting to $63,894,000 and
$66,542,000 repsectively. Imports for consumption, however, totaled
$65,648,000 compared with $66,348,000 in the 1940 period. Raw silk imports
were slightly higher at $43,186,000 against $41, 294,000 in the first half of
last year, and accounted for 65 percent of the import trade. Small increases
were registered also in purchases of bleached cotton cloth, mink furs, tea
and refined camphor. On the other hand, inports of crabmeat and tuna fish
declined to comparatively small amounts.
The upward tendency in imports coupled with the sharp recession in
exports, resulted in an import excess of $10,862,000 in our trade with Japan
in the first half of this year. This compares with an export excess of
$40,423,000 in the trade during the corresponding period of 1940.
CHINA
Ever since March of this year, exports from the United States to China
have each month exceeded exports to Japan, normally much the larger market.
June shipments to China totaled, however, but $6,055,000, compared with
$12,122,000 in May, the decline being the result largely of depressed
25946

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.97)
8
一3-
conditions in the Shanghai market and to United States export control measures.
Notwithstanding this severe decrease, June exports to China exceeded exports
to Japan by $368,000.
Exports from the United States to China for the first half of the year,
valued at $47,641,000, about equalled the value of the trade in the corre-
sponding period of 1940, and were only $5,391,000 under the half-year value of
exports to Japan. This is in sharp contrast to the first six months of 1940,
when our exports to Japan exceeded United States shipments to China to the
extent of nearly $60,000,000.
United States Exports to China by Designated areas
Beginning with January 194l, the Coordination of International Statistics
Unit of the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce has compiled statistics of
United States exports to China by designated areas; namely, "Free" China,
Shanghai, and "Occupied" China. Sumnary tables of the trade for the first
11-14
half of 1941. will be found on pages 12 15 of this report, following the table
of principal exports to all China. Conparable figures of the trade by
designated areas for 1940 are not available.
These tables indicate that 53.3 percent of the June (1941) exports to
China from the United States went to "Free" China, while Shanghai accounted for
37.6 percent. The respective ratios for the first half year were 48.3 percent
and 41.8 percent, with Japanese-controlled areas accounting for only 9.3
percent of the total exports.
Consumers' goods, notably tobacco, wheat flour, paper, raw cotton and
petroleum products, bulk large in the trade with Shanghai, while exports to
"Free" China consist primarily of aircraft and parts, motor trucks and busses,
non-ferrous metals, petroleum products, explosives and ammunition.
25946

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
Imports from China
Difficulty in getting goods out of China in view of the Japanese blockade
was in part responsible for the decline in June imports into the United States
from China to a value of $7,078,000 from $8,618,000 in May. Tung oil, tin,
tungsten, antimony and raw silk were among the principal commodities in the
trade registering recessions.
General imports from China in the first half of this year, however,
valued at $43,693,000, were only slightly under the January-June 1940 total of
$43,822,000. Bristles, raw silk and tungsten showed increases, but sizeable
declines occurred in imports of tung oil and tin.
HONG KONG AND KWANTUNG
There was considerable improvement in United States exports to Hong Kong
in the first half of this year when the total reached a value of $14,900,000,
compared with $9,049,000 in the corresponding period of 1940. Machinery and
vehicles, chemicals, and miscellaneous items accounted for most of the gain.
Trade with Kwantung continued depressed as a result of the restrictions
imposed in the Manohurian area. Expcrts to Kwantung in the first six months
of this year totaled $1,873,000 against $4,394,000 in the same period of 1940,
while imports were valued at $1,100,000 and $692,000, respectively. The
increase in imports resulted from larger purchases of Manchurian magnesite and
perilla oil.
Far Eastern Unit,
VCHungerford; mk
Septomber 24, 1941.
25946

=== Page 325 === (confidence 1.00)
-5-
4
TRADE OF THE UNITED STATES WITH JAPAN, 1/ CHINA, HONG KONG AND KWANTUNG
(Statistics throughout this release
are preliminary and subject to revision)
MERCHANDISE TRADE BY MONTHS
(Thousands of dollars)
Month
or
JAPAN
CHINA
HONG KONG
KWANTUNG
Period
1940
1941
1940
1941
1940
1941
1940
1941
EXPORTS, including
re-exports
January
29,707
11,588
8,035
4,669
1,255
2,374
1,108
433
February
15,399
11,108
9,712
8,887
1,629
1,640
268
644
March
17,800
10,112
7,283
6,431
1,321
2,532
564
187
April
15,277
8,419
5,690
9.477
1,589
2,414
1,031
235
May
13,687
6,623
8,824
12,122
1,794
3,387
421
199
June
15,095
5,687
8,170
6,055
1,482
2,555
1,002
174
July
15,364
6,934
1,839
1,272
August
25,111
3,776
1,065
987
September
17,778
3,848
644
381
October
26,195
5,646
1,237
1,257
November
16,443
4,642
1,123
628
December
19,343
5.396
2,430
937
6 months ending
June
106,965
53,032
47,714
47,641
9,049
14,900
4,394 1,873
12 months ending
December
227,200
77,956
17,387
9,857
GENERAL IMPORTS
January
22,197
10,391
9,026
7,524
494
194
29
89
February
7,995
8,127
7,059
5,614
104
118
16
27
March
9,335
10,488
6,764
6,892
121
188
78
272
April
8,760
11,020
3,907
7,965
251
196
110
295
May
9,283
10,869
7,722
8,618
389
196
173
341
June
8,972
13,000
9,344
7,078
174
286
285
77
July
13,362
9,756
450
332
August
.13,277
1,491
641
293
September
11,125
5,401
201
209
October
18,361
7,109
114
236
November
21,676
7,374
99
263
December
14.033
8,048
155
71
6 months ending
June
66,542
63,894
43,822
43,693
1,533
1,177
692 1,100
12 months ending
December
158,376
93,002
3,193
2,096
1
Including Taiwan and Chosen
25946

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
EXPORTS FROM THE UNITED STATES TO JAPAN (inoluding Taiwan and Chosen)
BY PRINCIPAL COMMODITIES
June
May
June
Six months ending
Commodity
June
1940
1941
1941
1940
1941
EXPORTS, including
re-exports, Total......l,000 dol.
15,095
6,623
5.687
106,965
53,032
EXPORTS OF U.S.
MERCHANDISE. Total.....1,00o dol.
14.903
6,593
5,670
105.854
52,283
Cattle hides.
1,000 1bs.
900
4,222
1,388
1,000 do1.
81
439
162
Raw cotton.
1,000 bales
34
14
25
449
78
1,000 do1.
1,886
881
1,580
25,478
4,762
Logs and hewn timber:
Douglas fir.
.1,000 ft.
857
350
1,200
4,966
6,255
1,000 do1.
11
5
18
68
93
Douglas fir, sawed......1,000 ft.
2,162
1,100
3,385
21,138
18,165
1,000 do1.
32
18
70
316
398
vood pulp.
1,000 tons2
10
41
20
1,000 do1.
730
2,814
1,665
Petroleum and products: 1,O00 dol.
3,199
4,860
3,469
18,624
24,155
High-grade motor fuel...l,O00 bbl.
5
216
16
87
393
1,000 dol.
92
712
39
1,397
1,188
Other motor fuel and
gasoline.
.1,000 bbl.
124
308
247
1,498
1,000 do1.
349
921
1,006
4,577
Crude petroleum.....
1,000 bb1.
960
1,068
837
5,462
4,289
1,000 do1.
1,362
1,392
1,131
7.639
5,617
Gas and distillate fuel
oil.
.1,000 bb1.
548
475
725
2,547
2,707
1,000 dol.
621
556
861
2,819
3,128
Residual fuel oil.......l,000 bbl.
207
34
74
1,045
443
1,000 do1.
160
34
58
773
401
Lubricating oil........
.1,000 bb1.
15
160
42
189
782
1,000 dol.
170
1,768
449
3,214
8,364
Iron & Steel Semimanufactures,
Total.
.1,000 do1.
2,904
15,174
165
Pig Iron.
.1,000 tons3/
1,000 do1.
Iron & steel scrap4/...1,000 tons3/
57
415
1
1,000 dol.
1,040
7,629
5
Steel ingots, blooms, billets, slabs,
etc. not containing alloy
1,000 tons3/
10
55
1
1,000 dol.
355
2,307
113
Iron & steel bars & rods
including wire rods....1,000 lbs.
20,140
64,452
1,071
1,000 dol.
893
3,353
31
Steel sheets, black
ungalvanized.
.1,000 1bs.
2,219
4,652
1,000 do1.
109
567
Tinplate, taggers' tin
and terneplate......
.1,000 1bs.
6,994
15,843
1,000 do1.
356
874
25946

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
EXPORTS FROM THE UNITED STATES TO JAPAN (including Taiwan and Chosen)
BY PRINCIPAL COMMODITIES (COnt'd.)
June
May
June Six months
ending
Commodity
June
1940
1941
1941
1940
1941
Steel Mill Manufactures,
Total
1,000 dol.
197
15
1
1,273
389
Structural shapes.....
1,000 tons
1
1
1,000 do1.
5
6
Tubular produots and
fittings.
1,000 1bs.
1,416
1
4,816
18
1,000 dol.
107
1
335
9
Wire and manufactures
1,000 1bs.
85
1
574
288
1,000 do1.
10
1
96
30
Iron & steel advanced
manufactures.
1,000 do1.
86
25
33
682
866
Ferro-alloys.
1,000 do1.
260
1
1,270
35
Copper, refined.
1,000 1bs.
7,911
61,120
33,867
1,000 dol.
907
7,419
3,966
Copper, old and scrap...
1,000 1bs.
211
3,048
5,945
1,000 dol.
22
335
661
Zinc, plates, slabs &
blocks.
1,000 1bs.
430
9,156
350
1,000 dol.
22
469
48
Lead, pigs, bars, etc.
1,000 1bs.
358
12,165
16,306
1,000 do1.
11
429
586
Aluminum,ingots, scrap,
etc.
1,000 1bs,
1,100
1,000 dol.
188
Power-driven metal-work-
ing machinery.....
1,000 do1.
1,747
15,488
837
automobiles, parts and
accessories..
do.
71
64
121
1,190
326
Passenger cars & chassis number
11
42
7
100
53
1,000 dol.
11
31
7
85
43
Motor trucks, busses,etc. number
2
8
62
38
93
1,000 do1.
1
5
41
184
62
Automobile parts for assembly do
19
4
265
51
aircraft and parts
1,000 dol.
21
696
41
Borax.
1,000 1bs.
118
8,962
10,758
1,000 do1.
1
128
181
Carbon black or gas black
1,000 1bs.
90
3,807
2,274
1,000 dol.
4
175
99
Phosphate rock...
1,000 tons
22
17
3
73
70
1,000 do1.
82
69
12
270
267
Ammonium sulphate......
1,000 tons
5
37
1,000 dol.
188
1,356
Potassic fertilizer materials 1,000 tons
1
2
11
20
1,000 dol.
39
1
644
Less than 500.
21
Tons of 2,000 pounds air-dry weight.
Tons of 2,240 pounds
Including tin-plate scrap and waste-waste tinplate.
5/
Forging machinery and parts.
25946

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
IMPORTS INTO THE UNITED STATES FROM JAPAN (Including Taiwan and Chosen)
BY PRINCIPAL COMMODITIES
June
May
June
Six months ending
Commodity
June
1940
1941
1941
1940
1941
GENERAL IMPORTS, Total 1, O0O dol.
8,972
10,869
13,000
66,542
63,894
IMPORTS FOR CONSUMPTION,
Total
1.000 do1.
8.910
11.136
13.187
66.348
65.648
Tuna fish, canned,
in oil.
.1,000 1bs.
125
289
226
3,125
1,104
1,000 do1.
21
60
49
525
234
Crabmeat, sauce and
paste..
.1.000 1bs.
453
553
1,344
9,090
3,020
1,000 dol.
157
166
423
2,801
918
Mink furs, undressed.. Thousands
102
31
9
400
489
1,000 do1.
152
56
15
657
933
Bristles, sorted and
prepared.
1,000 1bs.
10
15
24
132
150
1,000 do1.
18
27
72
292
329
Tea.
1,000 1bs.
648
451
963
5,432
5,719
1,000 do1.
136
66
242
844
959
Rubber-soled footwear
with fabric uppers...
1,000 prs.
99
34
76
483
434
1,000 do1.
25
10
13
81
73
Pyrethrum flowers.....
1,000 1bs.
56
708
1.693
763
1,000 do1.
9
75
363
84
Perilla oil.
1,000 1bs.
109
4,264
243
1,000 do1.
9
235
22
Cotton cloth, bleached 1,000 sq. yd.
4,672
5,841
2,319
29,052
37,219
1,000 do1.
180
232
115
1,046
1,409
Cotton cloth, unbleached 1,O00 sq. yd.
1,057
2
1,000 do1.
62
1
Cotton floor coverings 1.C00 sq. yd.
326
224
227
3,585
2,555
1.000 dol.
58
46
64
489
423
Cotton rags......
1,000 1bs.
43
993
31
1,000 do1.
4
87
3
Hat braids.
1,000 yds.
17.727
15,136
7,461
241,409
205,780
1,000 do1.
42
36
17
503
531
Raw silk.
1.000 1bs.
1,866
2,828
3,247
12,324
15,986
1,000 dol.
5,273
7,879
9,226
41,294
43,186
Silk fabrics, except
pile.
1,000 do1.
105
151
110
787
818
Hats, bonnets and hoods Thousands
206
478
248
3,202
2,748
1,000 dol.
43
100
51
664
603
Tissue & similar paper 1,000 lbs.
78
40
29
292
331
1,000 dol.
44
27
20
160
212
1
Less than 500.
25946

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.99)
-9
IMPORTS INTO THE UNITED STATES FROM JAPAN (Including Taiwan and Chosen)
BY PRINCIPAL COMMODITIES (COnT'd.)
June
May
June
Six months ending
Commodity
June
1940
1941
1941
1940
1941
China and porcelain
table and kitchen
ware
1,000 do1.
213
139
143
1,042
870
Earthen and stone ware 1,000 dol.
73
55
59
409
341
Slide fasteners (Zippers) Thousands
2,270
2,162
2,275
12,847
12,252
1,000 do1.
42
42
46
246
242
Electric lamps......
Thousands
5,279
3,017
5,537
35,666
24,107
1,000 do1.
53
28
51
310
214
Menthol.
1,000 1bs.
1
19
33
50
72
1,000 do1.
1
66
104
124
225
382
132
Camphor, crude......
..1,000 1bs.
1,000 dol.
109
54
Camphor, refined.......l,0oo lbs.
14
100
29
198
377
1,000 dol.
10
62
19
115
238
Dolls and parts........l,Ooo dol.
13
7
6
59
41
Other toys.......
1,000 dol.
63
15
24
293
132
Brushes.
Thousands
6,177
10,864
10,035
29,041
52,087
1,000 do1.
36
28
34
160
167
1/ Less than 500
25946

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
ORTS FROM THE UNITED STATES TO CHINA (ALL AREAS) BY PRINCIPAL COMMODÍTIES
June
May
June
Six months ending
Commodity
June
1940
1941
1941
1940
1941
EXPORTS, including
re-exports, Total
1,000 do1.
8,170
12,122
6,055
47,714
47,641
EXPORTS OF U.S.
MERCHANDISE,
Total
1,000 do1.
8.092
12,089
6,055
47,445
47,440
Wheat flour
1,000 bbls.
1
98
69
244
621
1,000 do1.
1
363
265
741
2,266
Tobacco leaf.
1,000 dol..
6,682
6,808
4,181
43,213
21,121
1,000 do1.
991
1,167
656
6,153
3,167
Cigarettes.
Thousands
10,590
17,520
11,790
48,718
100,261
1,000 do1.
30
33
21
105
187
Raw cotton.
1,000 bales
3
13
13
192
85
1,000 dol.
183
748
844
10,888
4,954
Douglas fir.
1,000 ft.
5,895
1,702
335
59,947
2,969
1,000 dol.
85
26
7
755
48
Printing paper.
1,000 1bs.
6,431
5,672
944
18,262
17,830
1,000 do1.
371
309
27
1.018
910
Overissue & old news-
1,000 1bs.
100
269
1.532
1,463
papers.
1,000 do1.
1
2
17
13
Petroleum & products..
1,000 dol.
361
730
421
2,646
3,819
Kerosene..
1,000 bbls.
80
140
1,000 dol.
169
297
Gas oil and distillate 1,000 bbls.
24
48
9
155
107
fuel oil.
1,000 dol.
31
66
12
185
138
High-grade motor fuel. 1,O00 bbls.
1
136
1,000 do1.
7
846
Other motor fuel and
gasoline.
1,000 bbls.
14
8
4
216
250
1,000 do1.
36
52
4
815
771
Lubricating oil...
1,000 bbls.
16
57
129
72
321
1,000 do1.
74
525
373
594
1,771
Iron and steel scrap...
1,000 tons
1
12
11
1,000 do1.
37
392
1
Steel sheets, black,
1,000 1bs.
6,914
51
1,026
29,203
4,116
ungalvanized.
1,000 dol.
164
2
38
764
128
Iron and steel bars,
1,000 1bs.
27,267
1,280
463
79,455
3,090
including wire rods... 1,000 dol.
669
66
30
2,308
214
Tinplate & taggers' tin 1,000 1bs.
7,109
817
19,392
2,841
1,000 dol.
329
40
931
135
Copper wire......
1,000 1bs.
324
64
831
445
1,000 do1.
42
13
116
73
Autorobiles, parts and
1,000 do1.
243
1,725
1,329
1,058
5,856
accessories.
Motor trucks, busses,
Nuaber
5
1,100
747
84
44,058
chassis...
1,000 do1.
4
1,529
1,185
60
4,843
Passenger cars and
Nu:ber
197
104
84
903
584
chassis.
1,000 dol.
130
77
65
608
406
Aircraft and parts.....
1,000 do1.
531
2,036
610
3,714
8,089
Coal tar colors.
1,000 1bs.
713
43
1
2,444
64
(analine dyes).
1,000 do1.
185
39
1
693
92
Less than 500
25946

=== Page 331 === (confidence 1.00)
-11-
UNITED STATES EXPORTS TO CHINA BY SPECIFIED AREAS - 1941
(Thousands of dollars)
Jan.-
Jan.
Feb.
March
April
May
June
June
Total China
4,588
8,867
6,397
9,444
12,089
6,055
47,440
To:
"Free" China
1,344
6,149
2,940
3,516
5,759
3,225
22,933
Shanghai
2,158
1,884
2,972
5,204
5,316
2,279
19,813
"Occupied" China,
incl. Manchuria 1/ 1,056
806
443
678
940
486
4,409
Parcel Post
30
29
42
46
73
64
284
PERCENTAGE DISTRIBUTION
Jan.-
Jan.
Feb.
March
April
May
June
June
Total China
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
To:
"Free" China
29.3
69.3
46.0
37.2
47.6
53.3
48.3
Shanghai
47.0
21.2
46.5
55.1
44.0
37.6
41.8
"Occupied" China
23.0
9.1
6.9
7.2
7.8
8.0
9.3
incl. Manchuria 1/
Parcel Post
.7
.3
.7
.5
.6
1.1
.6
1
Excluding Kwantung Leased Territory - For trade with Kwantung see page
VALUE OF UNITED STATES EXPORTS TO CHINA IN 1941,
BY COMMODITY GROUPS WITH PERCENTAGE OF EACH GROUP TAKEN BY SPECIFIED AREAS
(Thousands of dollars)
Jan.-
Jan.
Feb. March
April
May
June
June
Animal products,
edible. -
Value
14
15
35
45
63
30
202
Percent to:
Shanghai
95.1
87.1
99.8
100.0
99.6
92.7
97.8
Animal products,
inedible -
Value
17
42
107
104
139
94
503
Percent to:
Shanghai
92.7
55.3
87.7
92.3
96.1
84.6
87.9
Vegetable products,
edible -
Value
291
217
203
1,500
949
415
3,575
Percent to:
Shanghai
11.1
64.8
38.7
68.6
27.0
25.1
45.9
"Occupied" China
88.9
22.2
61.3
31.4
72.9
75.0
53.3
Vegetable products,
inedible -
Value
378
698
873
654 1,584
1,022
5,219
Percent to:
"Free" China
3.6
28.4
12.0
7.2
10.3
29.8
15.9
Shanghai
87.8
69.8
86.1
90.2
88.8
70.2
82.1
25946

=== Page 332 === (confidence 1.00)
-12-
ALUE OF UNITED STATES EXPORTS TO CHINA BY COMIODITY GROUPS, ETC. (CONT'D)
(Thousands of dollars)
Jan.-
Jan.
Feb.
March
April
May
June
June
Textile fibers and
manufactures - Value
400
928
923
1,336
878
913
5,378
Percent to:
"Free" China
.2
48.9
5.0
4.3
10.0
Shanghai
37.8
14.1
82.1
92.3
87.0
83.4
70.6
"Occupied" China
61.1
36.6
17.3
7.4
7.0
11.3
18.7
Wood and paper - Value
298
353
487
701
805
87
2,731
Percent to:
Shanghai
99.9
95.3
99.5
99.1
99.9
96.7
99.0
Non-metallic
minerals -
Value
732
1,349
419
280
753
460
3,993
Percent to:
"Free" China
.7
85.8
57.4
5.7
21.8
70.5
47.8
Shanghai
68.2
6.3
33.0
88.9
64.6
28.3
39.8
"Occupied" China
31.0
7.9
9.3
5.1
13.7
1.2
12.4
Metal and
manufactures - Value
625
954
584
655 1,296
317
4,431
Percent to:
"Free" China
41.0
57.1
83.2
70.7
81.6
93.3
70.0
Shanghai
54.5
34.5
16.4
28.7
18.2
5.8
27.3
Machinery and
vehicles -
Value
1,493
3,286
2,067
2,916 4,114
2,192
16,068
Percent to:
"Free" China
67.7
92.1
85.3
86.1
89.2
91.5
87.1
Shanghai
14.7
3.2
10.4
12.7
9.4
6.3
8.9
"Occupied" China
17.2
4.7
4.2
1.2
1.3
2.0
3.9
Chemicals and related
products -
Value
226
681
286
616
959
223
2,991
Percent to:
"Free" China
4.2
61.8
23.1
4.9
29.4
18.3
28.4
Shanghai
90.2
27.7
71.2
89.7
67.9
73.1
65.7
"Occupied" China
1.8
9.1
1.5
3.6
.8
1.1
3.4
Miscellaneous - Value
113
345
412
637
549
300
2,356
Percent to:
"Free" China
41.6
83.3
65.1
70.6
69.2
70.7
69.8
Shanghai
46.3
12.9
28.6
24.7
23.0
18.4
23.5
25946

=== Page 333 === (confidence 1.00)
-13-
PRINOIPAL COMMODITIES IN UNITED STATES EXPORTS TO SHANGHAI - 1941
(Thousands of dollars)
Jan.-
Jan.
Feb.
March
April
May
June
June
EXPORTS OF U.S. MERCHANDISE,
Total
2,158
1,884
2,971
5,204
5,316
2,279 19,812
Milk and cream, canned
8
9
30
34
57
25
163
Animal products, inedible
16
23
94
96
134
363
Wheat
84
28
112
Wheat flour
1
92
17
843
112
18
1,083
Other vegetable food pro-
ducts and beverages
31
49
62
103
116
86
447
Motor trucks, bus tires
(casings)
44
71
111
65
291
Tobacco, unmanufactured
165
343
528
402
1,269
656
3,363
Raw cotton
122
102
729
1,156
697
744
3,550
Paper & manufactures
274
298
471
684
774
69
2,570
Petroleum & products
475
71
127
219
471
125
1,488
Iron & steel-mill manu-
factures
92
149
69
85
182
7
584
Non-ferrous metals
170
159
1
41
12
3
386
Other metals and manufactures
79
21
26
62
42
8
238
Motor trucks and busses
32
21
27
60
16
156
Passenger cars
46
41
60
105
71
42
365
Machinery & vehicles, other
than autos
141
42
127
204
301
96
911
Coal-tar products
65
42
36
109
102
77
431
Medicinal & pharmaceutical
preparations
49
48
47
261
113
47
565
Other chemicals & chemical
products
90
98
121
183
437
39
968
25946

=== Page 334 === (confidence 1.00)
-14-
HOTPAL COMMODITIES IN UNITED STATES EXPORTS TO "FREE" CHINA - 1941
(Thousands of dollars)
Jan.-
Jan.
Feb. March
April
May
June
June
EXPORTS OF U.S. MEECHANDISE, Total
1,344
6,149
2,940
3,516
5,759
3,225 22,933
Motor truck & bus tires (casings)
1
173
20
8
238
440
Other automobile tires (casings)
9
2
82
38
90
57
278
Raw cotton, except linters
453
453
Petroleum and products
1
1,138
238
15
159
291
1,842
High-grade motor fuel
672
79
751
Other gasoline & motor fuel
312
107
52
471
Iron & steel-mill products
5
87
174
132
108
86
592
Non-ferrous metals
157
340
266
210
794
51
1,818
Motor trucks, busses & parts
348
309
1,106
165
1,489
1,178
4,595
aircraft, including parts
550
2,335
353
2,205
2,036
610
8,089
Explosives, fuses, etc.
404
34
21
248
707
Firearms & ammunition
19
31
248
243
3
544
all other
273
889
636
482
584
711
3,575
PRINCIPAL COMIODITIES IN UNITED STATES EXPORTS TO "OCCUPIED" CHINA, INCLUDING
11
MANCHURIA
1941
(Thousands of dollars)
Jan.-
Jan.
Feb.
March
April
May
June
June
EXPORTS OF U.S. MERCHANDISE, Total
1,056
806
443
678
940
486
4,409
229
437
63
729
Wheat
Wheat flour
256
44
120
239
250
247
1,156
Raw cotton
228
339
151
82
51
100
951
Petroleum and products
227
106
38
13
100
4
488
Motor trucks & busses
1
40
19
24
6
90
All other
344
317
94
96
78
66
995
1/ Excluding Kwantung Leased Territory - For this trade see page
25946

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
RTS INTO THE UNITED STATES FROM CHINA BY PRINCIPAL COMMODITIES
June
May
June
Six months ending
mmodity
June
1940
1941
1941
1940
1941
GENERAL IMPORTS, Total
1,000 do1.
9,344
8,618
7,078
43,822
43,693
IMPORTS FOR CONSUMPTION
Total
1,000 dol.
8.546
8.015
6,935
41.881
39.005
Sausage casings.
1,000 1bs.
125
61
54
640
348
1,000 do1.
66
54
32
423
218
Eggs, other than in
1,000 1bs.
270
189
150
1,073
1,098
shell
1,000 dol.
48
30
23
217
177
Goat and kid skins......
1,000 pieces
48
82
441
339
1,000 ão1.
21
34
190
108
Bristles..
1,000 1bs.
524
434
460
1,798
2,630
1,000 dol.
918
960
999
3,314
5,340
Undressed furs:
Kolinski.
Thousands
35
45
92
223
332
1,000 dol.
65
107
147
389
707
Lamb, kid, sheep
Thousands
274
161
65
1,899
922
and goat.
1,000 do1.
261
173
77
1,906
932
Weasel.
Thousands
316
265
228
1,299
950
1,000 dol.
317
384
304
1.295
1,361
Peanut oil.
1,000 1bs.
178
122
98
1,576
121
1,000 dol.
10
11
9
90
12
Tea.
1,000 1bs.
680
780
586
2,506
676
1,000 dol.
109
132
95
401
114
Sesame seed.
1,000 1bs.
3,330
595
505
7,307
3,340
1,000 dol.
66
20
20
185
109
Tung oil.
1,000 1bs.
14,874
4,702
2,433
57,966
15,678
1,000 dol.
3,139
1.098
525
12,404
3,412
Carpet wool.
1,000 1bs.
20
586
810
3,244
4,022
1,000 do1.
3
141
212
565
920
Raw silk.
1,000 1bs.
171
451
403
2,007
2,728
1,000 dol.
412
1,080
1,007
5,304
6,306
Maste silk.
1,000 1bs.
67
205
244
1,210
1,289
1,000 do1.
37
85
96
388
498
Handkerchiefs of vegetable
fiber other than cotton
Thousands
1,697
1,947
2,869
12,290
10,764
1,000 do1.
154
176
240
915
966
articles or fabrics em-
broidered, appliqued, etc.1,000 dol.
108
129
131
794
902
Hats of straw, paper
Thousands
709
532
240
3,649
5,233
grass.
1,000 dol.
108
102
50
707
1.082
25946

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
INTO THE UNITED STATES FROM CHINA BY PRINOIPAL COMMMODITIES (COnT'A.)
June
May
June
Six months ending
oaity
June
1940
1941
1941
1940
1941
Antimony (content)
1,000 1bs.
112
76
23
402
316
1,000 do1.
13
7
2
41
30
Tungsten ore and
1,000 1bs.
75
848
691
1.161
2,422
concentrates.
1,000 do1.
69
802
653
980
2,115
Tin in bars, pigs,
1,000 1bs.
1,762
436
177
4,287
894
blocks.
1,000 do1.
734
181
79
1,762
313
EXPORTS FROM THE UNITED STATES TO HONG KONG BY PRINCIPAL COMMODITIES
June
May
June
Six months ending
Commodity
June
1940
1941
1941
1940
1941
EXPORTS, Including
re-exports, Total
1,000 do1.
1,462
3,387
2,555
9,049
14,900
EXPORTS OF U.S.
MERCHANDISE,
Total
1,000 dol.
1.450
3.346
2,544
8.999
14,758
Wheat flour.
1,000 bbls.
7
47
104
135
254
1,000 do1.
13
187
596
406
1,166
Ginsend.
1,000 1bs.
4
8
1
75
43
1,000 dol.
22
43
1
343
254
Petroleum & products... 1,000 dol.
92
64
36
617
256
Refined Oils.
1,000 bbls.
8
12
7
174
44
1,000 do1.
71
43
31
538
198
Paper and paper mfgs... 1,000 dol.
257
400
474
1,158
1,708
Tinplate and taggers'.. 1,O00 lbs.
1,075
737
283
5,330
4,056
tin
1,000 do1.
46
37
9
234
184
Galvanized wire.......
1,000 1bs.
229
2,691
745
2,668
6,621
1,000 do1.
5
87
27
74
219
Refined copper in
ingots , bars or
1,000 1bs.
27
102
27
other forms.....
1,000 dol.
4
12
4
Iron & steel plates,
1,000 1bs.
1,561
1,294
416
5,336
8,454
incl. boiler plates.
1,000 dol.
43
32
10
142
191
Machinery & vehicles
1,000 do1.
198
536
349
1,460
2,111
Chemicals & related
products..
1,000 do1.
161
320
160
897
1,419
Miscellaneous.......
1,000 do1.
59
367
169
467
1,885
25946

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
RTS INTO THE UNITED STATES FROM HONG KONG BY PRINCIPAL COMMODITIES
June
May
June
Six months ending
Commodity
June
1940
1941
1941
1940
1941
GENERAL IMPORTS, Total 1,O0O dol.
174
196
286
1,533
1,177
IMPORTS FOR CONSUMPTION
Total
1,000 do1.
173
197
282
1.499
1.173
Animal products,
edible.
..1,000 do1.
7
7
15
51
105
Animal and animal pro-
ducts, inedible......1,000 dol.
6
2
15
29
64
Vegetable food products,
and beverages....
..1.000 dol.
69
124
136
296
539
Tung oil.
.1,0001bs.
2,355
1,000 1bs.
498
Tin bars, blocks, pigs,1,000 1bs.
133
918
etc.
....1,000 dol.
41
346
....1,000 dol.
50
64
116
279
465
25946

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
FROM THE UNITED STATES TO KWANTUNG BY PRINCIPAL COMMODITIES
June
May
June
Six months ending
godity
June
1940
1941
1941
1940
1941
EXPORTS, Including
re-exports, Total
1,000 do1.
1,002
199
174
4,394
1,873
EXPORTS OF U.S.
MERCHANDISE, Total
1,000 do1.
1,000
191
174
4,392
1,859
Petroleum and products
1,000 do1.
574
63
1,906
689
High-grade motor fuel
1,000 bbls.
1,000 dol.
Other motor fuel and
gasoline.
1,000 bbls.
85
397
1,000 dol.
263
986
Crude petroleum......
1,000 bbls.
75
347
324
1,000 do1.
68
455
451
Kerosene.
1,000 bbls.
71
1,000 do1.
113
Gas oil and fuel oil
1,000 bbls.
82
82
29
1,000 do1.
117
117
51
Lubricating oils.....
1,000 bbls.
9
5
21
15
1,000 do1.
121
61
261
191
Tin plate and taggers!
tin.
1,000 1bs.
1,831
1,000 do1.
96
Refined copper, ingots,
bars, eto.
1,000 1bs.
426
501
1,000 do1.
49
61
Copper rods.
1,000 1bs.
1,120
3,685
2,688
1,000 dol.
140
478
340
Car wheels, tires and
axles.
1,000 1bs.
1,050
1,000 dol.
55
automobiles, including
parts and accessories
1,000 dol.
31
2
6
439
31
25946

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.99)
-19-
S INTO THE UNITED STATES FROM KWANTUNG BY PRINCIPAL COMMODITIES
June
May
June
Six months ending
Commodity
June
1940
1941
1941
1940
1941
GENERAL IMPORTS, Total 1,OOO dol.
285
341
77
692
1,100
IMPORTS FOR CONSUMPTION
Total.
.1,000 dol.
149
196
201
552
887
Soybean oilcake and
1,000 1bs.
2,987
2,000
12,674
2,000
oilcake meal......
.1,000 dol.
41
27
177
27
Hempseed..
1,000 1bs.
100
122
63
201
491
1,000 do1.
3
3
2
5
12
Perilla oil..
.1,000 1bs.
808
762
969
1,744
3,744
1,000 do1.
72
71
90
124
355
Soybean oil.
.1,000 1bs.
1,360
240
1,000 do1.
50
8
Magnesite.
.1,000 1bs.
3,791
9,290
9,271
16,535
45,527
1,000 dol.
33
95
107
121
484
all other.
.1,000 dol.
2
75
1
-0-
25946

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.96)
00123.19
Memorandum of Conyersan
ands East Indies Policy in Regard to Restriet
on Trade with Japan
Baron van Boetzelaer,
Minister Counseloror
the Netherlands
Alger Hiss
Assistant Secretaryq
Division of
of State
COPIES TO:
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1753
SEP 19 1941
FE
OCT 2 0 1941
Department of St
MR. ACHESON
Baron van Boetzelaer came in to see me again at his
request. He said that he was uhder considerable:pressure
both from the Netherlands Government in London, and from
894,
the Netherlands Indies Government to obtain more definite
Confidentiar
information as to the policy of the United States with
respect to restrictions on trade with Japan. He said
that his Government felt that it must make some definite
decision soon, that it had for some weeks past anticipated
ALT
receiving almost momentarily a final statement of our
policy, particularly with respect to exports of petroleumo
161
products, and that his Government was especially anxious
that they not take any action which they might later find
was

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
was more liberal than the policy which the United States
would ultimately adopt. He said that, of course, his
Government also would not wish to adopt more restrictive
measures than those of the United States, but that the
concern thus far
expressed had been lest the Neth-
erlands adopt more liberal policies because of inadequate
information as to the policies of the United States. Such
a development, he said, his Government would consider most
unfortunate.
I told Baron van Boetzelaer that, as I had said to
him on other occasions recently, I was in no position to
give him any more detailed information than Mr. Acheson
or I had previously given to him, but that I would again
inform Mr. Acheson of the importance whioh the Netherlands
Government ascribed to an early clarification of this
matter.
Baron van Boetzelaer then said that he had the
preceding evening gone over the Legation's files again,
and he had found that the Department had already been
given a rather clear indication of the Indies policy in a
number of respects and that he thought that by referring
back to these previous statements he would be able to
clear up a number of the inquiries which Mr. Acheson and I
had

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.98)
the dates specifed a atanytine
by the nottikass minesty on the date specfed but no mens
mad made of him as to Netherlands policy. He than pro-
ceeded to read from a memorandum of August 4 whioh had
been received by the Legation from the Governor-General
of the East Indies. Baron van Boetzelaer said that this
memorandum had been shown to Mr. Welles by the Netherlands
Minister on August 4, had been disoussed with Dr. Hornbeok
on August 8
and with the Secretary on August 9. Baron van Boetzelaer
was not sure whether a copy of the memorandum had actually
been left with any of these officers. He then read
portions of the memorandum which he said were still
relevant to the questions under consideration, and per-
mitted me to make rather full notes. In substance, those
portions of the memorandum which he read were as follows:
(1) Japanese funds in the Indies are to be con-
centrated in a single account and are to be frozen
primarily as a means of protecting the Netherlands'
interests in purchases which had already been made in
Japan and already paid for, but not yet delivered. These
funds will be released for use by Japan in paying for oil
and other Indies products, so far as the Indies Government
may grant permission for the exportation of suoh products,
in proportion to releases by Japan of the Netherland
purohases referred to above.
(2) In

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.99)
(2) In.view of the danger to the Netherland Indies
resalting from the occupation of Indo-China, all supplies
enlarging or maintaining Japan's military machine should
be reduced as far as possible. Such a policy would mean
cutting off all exports of bauxite, manganese, palm oil,
tin, rubber, resins, Kapok, tanning materials, nickel ore,
ilmenite, salt, djarakpits (a fruit pit), rope fiber, and
scrap iron. Normal exports could be licensed of coffee,
lumber, maize, cassave, cotton, sugar, and some minor items.
not
If it should/be considered desirable to cut off entirely
Japan's oil supply, exports of oil could be restrioted to
the 1935 - 1936 level which would result 1n a reduction by
fifty per cent of Indies exports of oil. Light crude oil
and gasoline of more than sixty-nine ootane content should
be excluded altogether. In subdividing any allotted quota
of petroleum products, diesel oil, fuel oil, and gasoline
should also be restricted. Exports of other non-military
goods, including copra, could also be restrioted to
1935 - l936 levels or could be otherwise restrioted.
(3) Prior agreement between the United States, the
British Empire, and the Netherlands Indies is required,
especially as to the possibility that war may result from
such measures. A weak blockade, not backed by the certainty
of concerted further action is dangerous and ineffective.
Such

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.99)
-5
Such a policy would lend fatal support to the impression
not only of the Japanese, but also of other Asiatio
people, (at this point Baron van Boetzelaer said that the
Governor-General especially had the Chinese in mind)that
the United States, the British Empire, and the Netherlands
East Indies do not dare to face the extreme consequenoes
the
of their policy, and as a result instead of stopping/Jap-
anese march to the south, such a policy would enoourage
new aggressions and would possibly weaken Chinese resist-
ance. The deterring effect of the blockade (Baron van
Boetzelaer here observed that the term "blockade" was
inacourately used and that the Governor-General meant the
English equivalent of "embargo") would be entirely lost
and Japanese propaganda would be made much easier. Today
this propaganda is that the interests of Asiatic peoples
are sacrificed to those of the United States, and this
propaganda makes efforts to loosen the tie between the
three empires by pretending that Japanese action aims only
at England and the United States. A merely gradually
tightening blockage (embargo) would mean that Japan gets an
ever stronger foothold in Indo-China whioh makes it
inoreasingly diffioult for her to retrace her steps. A
conflict would become more and more unavoidable. Military
elements in Japan would construe this as a justification
of

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.97)
of their poliey, and on the other hand the possible
resistance of more prudent elements in Japan will become
accordingly weaker. A gradually tightening blockade
(embargo) requires a clear agreement as to the military
consequences which may occur at a moment which is more
unfavorable for the Allies than the present, assuming that
the whole political situation does not change completely
for the better. When a common blockade (embargo) 1s made,
it is necessary to communicate to Japan the conditions
for ceasing the action taken (1. e., the conditions upon
whioh the embargoes will be lightened or removed).
I thanked Baron van Boetzelaer for this additional
information and said that I thought Mr. Acheson would
find it helpful if he had not already received similar
information from Mr. Welles, Dr. Hornbeck, or the Secretary.
I said that I, myself, had not seen a copy of the memo-
randum from which he had read nor such a detailed
exposition of the proposed policy of the Indies.
从
PA/H:AH:WLH:SS

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.93)
2043
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
De
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE:
September 1,
SUBJCT:
Mesés of the Metherlands Indies for imports of textiles.
PARTICIPANTS:
Er. C. K. Meser, Gaief, Far Easterm Bestion, Divisiem ef
Regiemal Infermation, Department of Commerse
Kr. Alger Miss
Assistant Secretary
COPIES TO:
of State
JGMAR 191942
MR. ACHESON
ero
1—1403
hit
In a comversation on September 17 with Dr. Riemens,
semmersial secretary of the Metherlands Legation, Br. Miemens
told me that his Legation had been in towoh with Mr. Moser
2
and other offieials of the Department of Commeree with
fsspeet to the interest of the Netherlands Indies in obtaim-
img from the United States imports of textiles to replace
imports previously obtained from Japan. Dr. Riemems imdieated
that the Department of Commeroe officials had not beem
partieularly optimistio about prospects of the Metherlands
being able to obtain sueh supplies although he remarked that
Mr. Zimmermam had been moderately suecessful im obtaiming
partieular shipmemts, as he expressed it, on a "hand to msuth"
L
23
basis. Mowever, there vas mo assurance that equal suceess
would

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.92)
 te pee ia the future.  o.  
e van Sestselaer, Mimister Goumseler of the Ntte
Sagatsen whe was with hin, expressed their Geveramensts
emsmest desire to ebtaim Amerieam textiles in se far as
pessible, poinsing ous that met oaly would this busimess
lead to a bemefieial post war treße positien for kmerseam
temsiles but that it would strengthem the hand of the
Netherlands Indies Gevernment in regard to its eurrent
commereial and political relations with Japan. I said that
I thought the Department of Cemmeree offioials were the
apprepriate officials of the Gevermment to be of assistamee
in this matter and that it seemed to me that the Legasion
was fellowing proper procedure in kesping in teweh with
those effioials.
Today I telephoned to Nr. Moser and mentiomed Br. Riemems'
statements. Mr. Moser said that he was very interested im
furthering the Netherlands Indies attempts to obtain
Ameriean Sextiles. Ne said, however, that the Departmens
of Cemmeree textile experts had found that the Amerlean
industry was so preoccupied with the domestie market shat
they tended to regard the Netherlands market as too mall
to be very interesting under eurrent eonditions. He said
that he felt sonfidemt shat our industry could quite easily
take eare of the Netherlands requirements if only it made a
determined

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.92)
ing sgesting to the Department of state thas
she Department send a brief mote to the Metherlands Legatien
expreesing the Department's inserest im surremt efforts of
the Netherlands Imdies to obtaim exports ef Americam cetsom
textilem and further expressing she hepe that the Ameriean
imdussry will be able to be of assistamee te the Metherlands
Imdies in this matter. Mr. Moser said that if it were made
elear te the Metherlands Legatiom that she Legatiom was
free to shew this mote so interested textile mamufacturers
he felt sure that this expression of the Severmmemt's inter-
est in the matter weuld be mest effeetive. He said that if
the Department so expressed the Govermment's interest he
thought the Departmeas of Gommeree would then wiah to call
an informal conferenee wish Mr. Murekison of the Cotten
Texsile Institute, Nr. Piokard of the Gotten fextile
Foundation and ether leaders of the industry and shat he
fels somfidemt that as a result of sueh a sonferenee is
would be found shat the Ameriean imdnstry has adequate
produstive eapeeity tor care for the meeds of the Netherlands
10d10s.
I thanked Mr. Moser for this expression of his views
and said that I would see thas she matter was ealled to
the attention ef Assistant Sesretary Asheson and ether
interested efricials of this Department.
/

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.98)
September 18, 1941
MEMORANDUM
To:
Mr. Alger Hide
From: Mr. Miller.
The following, for your information, is an excerpt
from a memorandum of a telephone conversation on September 18
between Mr. Fox of Foreign Funds Control and Mr. Singer of
Standard Vacuum:
"Mr.Singer referred to NY 235383 end NY 237869,
covering $557,000 remittance from Japan and payment
of $105,000 for oil shipment from N.E.I. to Japan. He
8
then inquired as to the status of these applications.
94.24/1
Mr. Singer was informed that these applications were
receiving the consideration of the Treasury Department
and thet he would be informed when a decision had been
reached. In respect to the $557,000 remittance from
Japan, Mr. Singer stated that this remittance had been
ordered prior to the despatch of their wire, indicating
that Standard would consider further shipments only
7
after payment of old indebtedness had been made. This
5
is at variance with our previous understanding which
3
was that this remittance followed despatch of Standard's
wire by about seven days."
"With respect to the shipment of oil from the
N.E.I. to Japan, Mr. Singer quoted a wire advising
that an export license would be granted by the N.E.I.
authorities upon approval of the applicetion covering
the financing of the shipment now pending."
E.G.M.

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.89)
Tade sih Japan
m an Beetelper
Minister Conseier of the Netharlads
Alger Miss
Baron van Boetzeleer eame in to sse me again at his
request. He said that he was under coneiderable pressure
beth from the Netherlands Gevermment in Londen and frem
the Netherlands Indies Govermment te ebtain mere definite
Infermatiom as to the polioy of the United States with
5
reapect to restriotiems on trade with Japan. He said
that his Governmemt felt that it must make some defimise
desision soon, that it had fer seme weeks past antisipated
ressiving almost mementarily a final statement of eur
APR141942
peliey, partieularly with respeet to experts of petrelemm
predusts, and that his Governmemt was espesially anxieus
that they not take any motien whieh they might later find

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.90)
was mere 1iberel than the pelley whieh the Umited ssates
would alsimately adept. He sald that, of eourse, his
Gevermment alse would not wish to adept mere restrietive
meassree than these of the United states, but that the
ooneerm thue far
exnressed had been lest the Neth-
orlands adert more liberal polietes because of imadequate
informatlon as to the nolioies of the United tates. wah
a develonment, he sald, his Government vould sonsi der mest
unsortunate.
I told heron van oetzelaer thet, as I had eaid to
him oa other ocoaslons reeently, I was in no nosition to
sive him any more detalled inforintion than Hr. eheson
or I had previouely kiven to nim, but that I would again
Infore r. Aobeson or the lmnortnnoe whlon the Netherlande
Government ameribed to an enrly clariric»tion of this
ttor.
Baron van Doetselaer then eaid thet he had the
rreoeding evening gone oer the Legtlon's riles again,
and he hnd found that the  o artment hr! plrendy been
given a rather alenr Indiention or the Indles -ollay in a
mmber of respeete and that he thought that by referring
baok to these rrevloue tatemente he woul be able to
olear ur è numbor of the Inquiries whlon r. cheson and I
had

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.90)
mé mede of him as to Nothorlande pelley. Ne then pre-
seeded to reed fres e memerestum of sngsst 4 vaieh nad
beem reeeived by the Legasien frem she Gevermor-General
ef the ast Indles. Baren van Reetselmer said that thls
memorandm had been shovn to "r. sellee y the Hetherlanés
Minlster on ugust 4, had been disoussed vit r. Hornbeek
naugust
1 and with the seeretary on August 9. Baron van Beetselaer
was not sure whether a oory r the memorandm had zetually
been left with any of these offleers. He then read
perslens of the nemorandnw whion he sald were sslll
relovant so the cuentions under consideratlen, and rer
missed me to make rather full notes. In snbatamee, those
portlone of the mesorandum wiich he rrad were ne follewe:
(1) Japanese funce in the Indies are to be eon-
eentrated in e single aceount and are to be frozon
primarily as a means of roteetins the etherlande'
Intereete in vurehases whlen had already been made in
Japan and alreacy rain for, but not yet delivered. These
funde wlli be released for use by Janan in naying for oll
and other Indies produete, so far as the indies overnment
may grant neraleslon for the exrert slon of sush rroduete,
in proportion to relenses by Jeran of the etherland
purohase. reforred to above.
() In

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.89)
(2) In view of the danger to the Netherland Indies
resmlting from the oeeupatien of Inde-Chime, all muppllee
enlarging or maimtaiming Janan's milltary mmehime sheuld
be redueed as far as nosstble. Sueh e noliey would mean
eutting off all exnorts of beuxite, manganese, palm ell,
sin, rubber, msins, Xanok, tannimg materlals, miekel ore,
1lmanite, sals, ajaraknits (= fruls rit), rope fiber, and
serer 1ron. mal exnort coul: b lleensed of eeffee.
lmber, aaize, on: sxve, cotton, suger, and eome mimor items.
not
if 1t should be oonsinered osirnble to cus off ontirely
Japan's oll surply, cxrorte cf oll could be reetrieted to
the 1935 - 1356 level wh1on voui result 1n  reawet1on 
fifty per eont of Indies exports of oll. Light orede oll
and gaselimg of more than alxty-nine notene content should
be exeluded alsopether. In aubdividing any ellotted quota
of retroloum "roducta, dlecel oll, fuel cll, and gaseline
ahould aleo be restrioted. xports of cther non-military
goode, 1neluding corra, couls plso be restrieted to
1936 - l030 lo01s or cou1d be ntherviee restr1eted.
(3) irlor aprement brtween the nited tetee, the
"ritish Forlre, and the Metherlands Indlee ls regaired,
esrectelly ee to the nessibility that wer any reoult from
auch meneuren. A weak blcatade, not beoked by the eertainty
of conoerted further aetlon 1s Aungerous and 1neffeetive.
3u

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.85)
y of the Tapees, bt l of  Ae
propão, tat thie peint Baren vae Receselase caie thas the
(evesmersGenerel espseially had the Chinese in mind)thet
the Uaited states, the Brisish Impise, ame the Netmestande
East Iméses do mot dare to fase the extreme consequeaees
the
of their pelley, and as a result instsed of eteppimg^dap-
amose march to the south, such & pelier would eaeourege
new eggresssens and would pessibly weakem Chimese resist-
amse. the Geterring effeet of the bieekads (Barem ven
Beetselaer here obeerved that the tesm "bleckake" was
insscuretely ueee asd that the Gevermer-Gemeral meent the
English eeuivalent of "emberge") weuld be entirely lest
and Japemeee prepaganda weuld be made mesh easiss. Tedey
this prepagamdes is that the interests of Asiasie peeples
are seerifieed to those of the United states, and this
prepaganée makes efferts to leesen the sie between the
three empisee by pretending thet Japamese astien aims ealy
at Eagland and the United states. A merely smiually
sightemiag bleekake (embargo) would neam shet Japen gets an
ever strenger feetmels in Indo-Chine whieh makes is
imeressingly diffioult for her to retrase her steps. A
comfliet would beseme more and more umaveidabãe. Military
elements in Japan woule construe this ms & Shssifsentiem

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.89)
tmelr peliey, and on the other hand the pessinle
Rstanee of more -rudent clements in Japam will beeome
eraingly wenker. A krndmally tigntening bleakaée
(embarge) requires a clear agreement as to the military
eensequenoes whioh may coour at r moment whieh is mere
wafavoreble for the llies than the rresent, aseming that
she whole rolitieml situntion o' not ahange eomplosely
for the better. hen * com on blnccare (embarge) le maée,
it is neoessary to oommunionte to Ja an the sonditions
Sor aaln the otion taten (1. e.. the oonditlom wen
whien the eabargoes wil be ightened or removed).
I thanked 'aron van 'ortzeleer for thie additiomal
Informatlon and saic that I thouuht r. roheson would
find 1t helrful 1f he had not al rendy receired similar
informstien frou r. nlles. r. ornbeok, or tne eeretary.
I pald that I, =yeelr, nad not eenn " oo'y of the momo-
rendum from whioh he har read nor uuon " setailed
ex ositlon of the -roroped nolloy ar the naios.

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.95)
of State
m5 2043
SEP 2 0 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
HR.' ACHESON
LAL
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: September 20, 1941
SURJECT:
Netherlands East Indies Policy with respect to restriotion
of trade with Japan.
PARTICIPANTS:
Baron van Boetzelaer, Minister Counselor of the
Netherlande Legation
fu
894.24/1754
Mr. Alger Hiss
Dirision of
COPIES TO:
FAR EASTFRN AFFAIRS
1141
1—1408
Beron van Boetzelaer called me by telephone and said
that he desired to tell me thet the opinion which he had
expreseed to me on Sentembrr 15 thet the Indies Government
1e prepared to embergo all exports of petroleum to Japan 1f
United States adonts & similar colicy has been confirmed by
the Indies Government. He said further that he had received
no instructions to make such a pronosal to the Department
but he thought we would wish to be informed of the facte in
the matter.
I took the occasion to refer again to the Governor
General's memor ndum of August 4 on the subject of general
policy
P
心
S/MM
175

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
policy which Baron van Boetzelaer had read to me in the
course of his call on September 18. He said that as the
Minister is still out of town he has been unable to ascertain
whether or not a copy of the memorandum was actually left
with any of the officials of the Department with whom the
Minister seid he had discussed the memorandum. In answer to
my request for a further description of the status of the
memorandum, Baron van Boetzelaer eaid that it represented
the personal views of the Governor General which views the
Governor General offered for consideration in discussions
designed to work out policies of the Indies Government and of
the Government of the United States along similar lines.
The memorandum, Baron van Boetzelaer said, wasnot an official
proposal but in view of the Governor General's position it
could be regarded as representing views which the Indies
Government was prepared to express officially if the case
arose therefor. Baron van Boetzelaer went on to say that
what has transpired since August 4, the date of the
memorandum, and information which he had received as to the
attitude of the Indies Government makes him feel sure that
there has been no disposition on the part of the Indies
Government to take any different attitude than that expressed
in the memorandum.
Baron van Boetzelaer

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
Baron van Boetzelaer subsequently called me again on
the telephone and said that he had just had an opportunity
and
to talk to Mr. Loudon by telephone/that Mr. Loudon had told
him that in his calls upon Mr. Welles, Mr. Hornbeck and the
Secretary on August 4, August 8 and August 9, respectively,
he had not left copies of the memorandum but that he had
read from it, had fully described its contents and had given,
in general, an account of the Governor General's views as
represented in the memorandum. The Minister had said that
Mr. Welles in particular had commented that the memorandum
was most interesting. In discussing the memorandum with the
three officials mentioned above the Minister had pointed out
that the memorandum did not represent official views but
merely the personal feeling of the Governor General. The
Minister had at the same time pointed out that in view of
the Governor General's position his personal feelings were
of course of importance. Baron van Boetzelaer then reaffirmed
his own description to me of the status of the views expressed
in the memorandum as they are outlined in the preceding
paragraph.
PA/H:AH1s8:FLB

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.96)
OCT.2-1941
DIVISION O1
EUMUPEAN AFFAI
ACHESON
OCT 2 0 194
DEPARTMENT OF
BRITISH EMBASSY,
SAFE HANDHE AI
UI WASHINGTON, D.C.,
RECEIVED
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC 
October
1st, 1941.
241941
OCT101941
894.24/1756
894.2
DIVISION OF
DARTMENT OF STATE
Mr. Acheson,
I think you would like to see the enclosed
copies of statements made in answer to questions in
Parliament on the 9th and 10th September. We have
also sent copies to the Treasury.
Yours sincerely,
Noeei taal
FILED
Mr. Dean Acheson,
Assistant Secretary of State,
State Department,
PS/MM
Washington, D.C.
V

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.99)
Assistant Socretary
PARLIAMENTARY QESTION
of State
OCT 2 - 1941
Anglo-Japanese Trade
MR. ACHESON
30. Lieut.-Colonel Sir Thomas Moore asked the Minister of Economic
Warfare whether, in view of public anxiety, he can make any statement.
on the trade-barter agreement with Janan: and why it is regarded by
His Majesty's Government as necessary?
Mr. Foot: No general barter arrangement, nor anything in-
consistent with the strict enforcement of the freezing Order, has ever
been contemplated. The use of frozen funds for new exports to Japan
is not permitted. If it should be found desirable exceptionally to
license any particular imports from Japan, it would be a matter for
consideration what exports should be allowed against such imports and
how payments should be effected. It is probable that this would best
be done by setting up a separate clearing account, if and when the
need for it should arise. At present, however, no such imports have
been licensed and consequently no question of payments arises.
Sir T. Moore: As Japan is a partner in the Axis, would not
such a proposal be almost equivalent to trading with the enemy? Would
it not be unwise for the Government to be a party in any way to a
transaction with Japan?
Mr. Foot: I think it is clear from the terms of my answer
that no trade is taking place between the two countries at all.
Mr. Noel-Baker: Does that also apply to the Colonial Empire?
Mr. Foot: This question refers only to the United Kingdom.
In these matters the Colonial Empire generally follows suit. Perhaps
my hon. Friend would put a separate Question down.
10th September, 1941.

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.99)
PARLIAMENTARY QUESTION
Assistent Secrotary
of State
OCT 2 - 1941
JAPAN
MR. ACHESON
33. Mr. A. Edwards asked the President of the Board
of Trade the Government's policy with regard to trading
with Japan; and to what extent in the last three months
shipments of materials which can be used for munitions
of war have been made to Japan?
Sir A. Duncan: All Japanese assets in the United
Kingdom were frozen by an Order dated 26th July, and
export of all goods from the United Kingdom to the Japanese
Empire was made subject to licence from 15th August. No
licences have been granted for exports to Japan since the
date of the Freezing Order, and I see no prospect that any
such licences will be granted in the near future. No
materials which, so far as is known, can be used as
munitions of war have been exported from the United Kingdom
to Japan during the last three months.
9th September, 1941.

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.90)
Octeber 6, 1941
894.24/1756
My dear Mr. Mall:
I thank you for your letter of Ootober 1, 1941
enelosing copies of statements made in Parliament
regarding trade with Japan.
Sineerely youre,
Dean Achesen
The Nenerable
Neel P. Hall,
Minlster Plemipetemtiary,
11C
Brisish Mabassy.
PS7MM
the pigned orgl-
LAIJJRINPA

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.91)
Molure tu
By Safe Hand
File
BRITISH EMBASSY
REOEIVEDWASHINGTON, D. C.
10OT-84
OCT 8 1941
DEPARTNT
894.24/1757
My dear Finletter,
On September s I sent rou some infor-
mation about aprarent shi  ents of Bolivian tin
throu n chile to Japan.
I a sorry o say I failed to a s: you
894.24
if you could tuke up the atmer  ith the Bolivians.
Phere as ulso a typio error which ut  olivian instead
of Chilean in the thipi line of the th ire pare raph.
I omer theverore, if you would be kind
enouth to substitube the attuehed Cor wy letter of
Septe ber s.
Yours sincerely,
Arman
.D. arric.
r. T. K. Finletter
S.ecial assistunt te the sueret ry
United States Depurt..ent of state
6.561
as rton, D. C.
OCT 8 1941
FILHD
PS/MM

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.94)
Assistant Seoreta
of State
RECEIVED
CT1 1941
OCT141941
Aa
DIVIBION OF
MR. ACHESON
CATIONS AND REC
W.T. 5/233/41
British Embassy
OFFICE OF THE ATE Gy Washington, D.c.
By Safe Hand
INTERNATIONAL EO
OF
T - 9 19 FAEASTERN AFFAIRS
COT 13 194L
e水
Dear Mr. Reinstein,
We now have a reply to the
question whether there are at present any export
to Japan in the four following categories,
(e)
Tin and Rubber from any part of the Empire
(b)
Pig Iron from India
1941C
(c)
Lead and Zinc from Malaya
(a)
Petroleum products from British-Controlled
The answer to all these four
questions is that no exports have recently taken place,
894.24
or are contemplated.
We are further informed that no
decision has yet been taken on what imports will be re-
garded as essential, but that we will be informed as
soon as a decision is made.
Yours sincerely,
Armani.
OCT 14'1941
A. D. Marris
FILD
PS/MM
Mr. J. Reinstein,
Department of State,
MR. HUMNBLLA
Washington, D.C/.
OCT 6- 1941
aH

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.97)
viéionof
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
UU122 19
Zederal Barean of Iusestigation
OFSTATE
Autted States Drpurtmrnt of JustirDepartment of Sh
VED
Washington, B. L.
9-1941
October 6, 1941
DivisiBeRSanAL ANI
DIVISION OF
DIVISION
ROPFAN AFFAIRS
Defense MOCNIDRWITAI
OCT28
NOV 2 2 1941
1941
Honorable Adolf A. Berfe,
nt of State
State
4.24
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
OCT 7 - 1941
94.24/1759
MR. BERLE
My dear Mr. Berle:
It is confidentially reported that the China Import and Ex-
port Lumber Company and the firm of Jandine and Madison, both of
which are British firms, have been supplying the Japanese Army in
China. In order to get the Japanese Army business, the China Im-
port and Export Lumber Company reputedly must give up about 30%
commission to the Japanese Army men in China. It is alleged that
Mitsubishi and Company, Limited, Mitsui and Company, Limited, and
other Japanese firms have underbid the above mentioned British
firms, but have been unable to secure the business with the Japanese
Army in China.
The China Import and Export Lumber Company is understood to be
owned by Sir Sasoon, a British Jew, who is believed to be residing
in Shanghai, China. The Agent for this company in the Uni ted States
is believed to be Dant and Company, Portland, Oregon. The firm of
Jardine and Madison is said to be represented by one McMillan in
Wancouver, British Colum
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Sincerely yours,
CNOV/14 194FW
DIVISION
NOV 6 1941
Le. dto
DIVISIÓN OF EXPORTS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AND DEFENSE AID
AFFAIRS
SPECIAL MESSENGER
NOV 27 1941
SC
CORREL
cc - Assistant Chief of Staff
G-2, War Department
Washington, D. C.
OCT7 1941
Director of Naval Intelligence
Navy Department
Washington, D. C.
11-12-41

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.95)
ISION
0G
TELEGRAMREOEIVED
CWDatEd October 18
closEly paraphrasEd bE-
forE being communicated
to anyonε. (br)
Rec'd 5:26 pom
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
OCT 20 1941
Washington.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
dlefime(m/mepif65
542, October 18, 2 p.m.
811.20
My October 10, 4 p.m.
After investigating a rEport from Manzanillo
that a suspicious railway car had bEEn redespatchEd
to Tampico, Collins now reports that thE car has
bEen openEd by thE customs authoritiEs at Tampico
894.24
and preliminary Examination rEveals 88 flasks of
mErcury and 264 slabs of zinc of 27 kilos Eaoh.
ThE Examination is procEeding. According to
Collins it appEars doubtful whether illegal Export
from Tampico was contEmplatEd and it sEEms.morE
likEly that thE car was sEnt therE to EludE invEs-
tigation at Manzanillo.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MC GURK.
NUV 1 1941
Ry
Department of Stats
Department of State
COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
WC
NOV 6 - 194
DIVISION OF
NOV14 1941
FILED

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.90)
PREPASING OFFICE
WILL INDIGATE WHETHER
Full rate
TELEGRAM SENT
CONFBENTAL OGEE
Collest Day letter
NONCONFIDENTLAÀ. GOGE
Night letter
PARTAIR
Charge Department:
Department of State
FLAIN
Full rate
Day letter
Night letter
Washington.
Charge to
Br
October 18, 1941
$
90M
AMEMBASSY
RUENOS AIPES (ARGENTINA)
09
cmh
Pleece repo::
beerph emo nt
of ellprerte  otter epen since Aoust .
894.2
89
4
(Pareeuay)
293.
Sr. Salvedor
4
106
4
16
7
60A
(Meteriel recuested by the Exeoutive Seeretery of the
Economic Defense Board.)
PS
/BH
ek
BA
EO: EGO:MJC
Cucn
Enciphered by 
Sent by operator
M..
19.

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.92)
10
WILL INDIDATE WHETHER
Full rate
TELEGRAM SENT
Cellect (Day letter
Night letter
PARTANR
PLAIN
Charge Department:
Department of State
Full rate
Day letter
Night letter
Washington.
Charge to
October 27, 1941
$
AMEMBASBY
PUENOS AIRES (APGENTINA)
Plerce rep?
)9,
Cctoler 1
Hull
89
A
7
60
3
SUPPL
894.24/1760
1911
4
9
p
PS/ELP
EO:EGC: MJC
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M..
19
1--1682

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.82)
UCT :
心.
TK
R1e dE Janciro
This telegram must bE
TH
closely puraphrased be
Dated October 20, 1941
forE being communicnted
FROM
to anyonF.
(br)
REC'I P:41
Sry
PAR FASURN ALFAIRS
11
893.24
U
S
aprrexirately eyiv leet ,7eo metrie t.
0
FlEARE
Elr
工
00
mil reporta  rr citton ex rte, tes
ment
2
of whieh re telEgr . 1,52e f Ooteber 17 ad
of
Eport of samE dnte Tor details.
State
CAFFERY
EMB

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.91)
October 28, 1941
Ia reply refer to
Ky dear Nr. Perkins:
)
In sosordanoe with your request to Mr. Aoheson
the Depertment hae telegraphed to the missione in
Argentina, Brezil, El Salvader, Mexico, Pereguey end
Peru requeeting tnformetior ao to the volume of
hipments  tton  J  nino ne ugu
Certain Jifrloulties heve deleyed e reply from
Buenos Airee, and there ie acoordingly tabuleted only
the information reoeived fron the five other countries.
Brazll
Exports to Japan:
Angust (official atatiatios) -
3,619 metrie toms
August 1-Ootober 16 - Commerolal
reperts - 20,004 bales, all in
Auguet, equivslent to
3,729 metrie tome
Exports to Shanghai:
Auguet 1-Ootober 16 - Commerelal
reperte - 46,983 bales, all 1n
Angust and September,
equivalent to
8,700 metrie toes
n lalvater
Mr. Mile Pertins,
P
S
Reonemie Befease Board,
E
2801 e street,
Washingten, D. C.
G

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.91)
-2
Dalzader
No shipments.
Mexiee
No shipments sinoe August l. Offloial statisties
for August - no exports.
Private souroes indicate no shipments sinoe
August 1.
(One firm reports that approximately B00 bales
of linters may have been ahipped to
Japan sinoe August 1.)
Pareguay
N. ireot ehipment Japon xnd Chine. Certain
etrgenine
in treneit to n.eterlned forelg destinetions.
the mbessy et Buenes lres cas teen requested
to vorify any outgolne shipments of this
Perprueyen cotton.
Peru
Exports to Japan:
August 1-Ootober 16 - Compile-
tione of Cotton Chamber
- 10,317 watrie
tons
The Department will inform you es soon as a report
1s received from Buenos Aires, end will also inform you
from time to time as further information regarding subsequent
trade is received.
Sincerely yours,
Eailio G. Cellado
28 A41PM
Sposial Assistant to
the Under Beeretary
le d ig
EO:GC:MJ0 10-28-41
Inal

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.90)
Ea reply refor to
My dear Mr. Perkins:
I refer to my letter of Oetober 28, l941
regarding exports of cotton from the other Amerieam
republics to Japan and China since August 1, 1941.
894.24/1761A
The Depertaent hes now received information
from Buenos Aires that avallsble oxport statisties
and information from trade souroes revesl no experts
of ootton from Argentina to Japan sinoe August 1.
5611
Bincerely yours,
SUPPL.
Imilio Q. Collado
Special Assistant
to the Under Beoretery.
Mr. Milo Perkins,
Exeoutive Direotor,
0
Economic Defease Board,
S
UR
2601  Street,
0CT 2941
Washington, D. C.
C
EO: EGO: KJC
10-29-41

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECE
DEPARTMENT OF MATE
anta
FROM
10/28/41
PM
Lima
EDIECC
This telEgram must bE
closEly paraphrased bε-
Dated October 20, 1941
forE bEing communicated
to anyonE. (br)
Recid 4 p.m.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SEcretary of StatE,
194
Washington.
563, October 20, 4 p.m.
DEpartment's No. 406, October 18.
ThE approximatE total of cottn shipments to
894.24/1762
894.24
Japan from August 1 to Cctober 15 was 10,317 metric
tons according to compilations of thE Cotton Chamber.
NORWEB.
CSB
NOV 6 1941
PS/BH
FILED

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
THE AMERICAN REPUBU
GRLY
DEPARTMENT OF BTAY
Division of
FAR BASTERI AFEAIRS
San Salvador
NOV 1 1941
FROM
Dated October 20, 1941
Department of St
Rec®d 2:15 p.m.
9n6.
Secretary of State,
10/28/41
Washington.
EO:GGe
79, October 20, 11 a.m.
Department's tElegram October 18, 9 p.m.
No shipments whatever.
894.24
ELLIS
894.24/1763
GW
NOV 3 1941
PS/BH
FILED

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
 Puran of Euurstigation NbV1 9-1941
States Départment of
RECEIVEà
Mashington, D. L.
AND DEFENSE AID
Er
OCT 2 0 1941
PERSONAL AND
CONFIDENTIAL
DIVISION 
FC
Rufivision of
A2
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Assistant Secretery of State
00122 1941
Ani
Department of state
OCT 17 1941
MR.
INTERNATIONAL ECON AFFAIRS
Department of State
SR
NOV - 4 1941
Deer Mr. Berle
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Attached hereto is a copy of a memorandum
dated October 16, 194l, reflecting information re-
894.24/1764
ceived by this Bureau from an outside confidential
894.24
and relieble source relative to certain activitie
of the Japanese Government in the field of industry
and commerce.
Since these data would seem to indicate
894.6363
an attitude of preparedness on the part of that
Government they are being submitted as a matter of
information.
Sincerely yours,
OCT 31 1941
DEC
NOV 19
DERARTMENT OF STATE
20. 2Aoover
Encr
BY SPECIAL
MESSENGER
CC Captain Alan Goodrich Kirk
Director, Naval Intelligence
OCT 17 1941
fio7.
Navy Department
Washington, D. C.
Te
PS/LD
Brigadier General Sherman Miles
File
Assistant Chief of Staff
11-5-41
G-2, War Department
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.99)
October 16, 1941
MEMORANDUM
Reports have been received from an outside confidential source
indicating that a Mitsubishi engineer, when consulted as to the size of
valves, et cetera, in connection with some tanks, early in 1940, stated
the finished products were being sent to Tsingtao. This individual also
asserted that his concern had constructed numerous such tanks at Tsingtao
and, further, many unassembled tanks had been purchased in the United States.
This report also indicated that Jyodo Kigyo, as well as Mitsubishi, had
FW 894.24/1764
constructed tank storage at Tsingtao.
Another source of information advised that he had no definite
knowledge of storage facilities at Tsingtao, but stated the Japanese have
built an air field about twelve to fifteen miles northeast of that city, at
which point they have cut into the sides of the hills, either for aircraft
or oil storage.
The following statistics on the oil situation in Japan during the
past few years are reported to be accurate and will form a basis for an under-
standing of the entire situation as regards production, consumption, and in
estimating present reserve stocks.
MITSUBISHI OIL CO.
Original equipment 1930-31
1
3000 bbls. per day Kellog Combination Topping and Cracking plant.
Cost 1,050,000 yen
1
1000 bhl. per day
Vacuum Distillation unit.
Cost 500,000 yen
1933
1
1600 bb1. per day
C. F. Braun Co. Pressure Distillate
Re-run Unit
Cost 200,000 yen
1939
1
4000 bb1. per day
American Locomotive Co. Combination Topping and
Cracking Plant
Cost 5,500,000 yen
2,000,000 yen spent in U.S.A.
PS/LD

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.98)
100 bbl. per day Universal Cil Co.
Iso Octane Plant
Cost 1,700,000 yen
Built at request of Navy
Operates at only 30-40 bbl. per day
1
750 bbl. per day Lubricating Oil Clay Treating Plant
Cost 100,000 yen
1
500 bbl. per day Blown Asphalt Plant
Cost 100,000 yen
GOVERNMENT CONTROL
1934
Oil Control Law
1935
Oil Union Formed (Sekiyu Rengo) April 10th
Capital 300,000 yen
M. 0. Co. - 500 shares M.S.K. - 500 shares
1936
Subsidy for six months' storage reserve effective April lst.
Asphalt Association formed June lst
12
Domestic Kerosene Association formed July lst.
1937
Alcohol Monopoly in effect from April lst
Joint Enterprise Company formed (Kyodo Kigyo) Nov. lOth
M. 0. Co. investment 625,000 yen
-2-

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.98)
Alcohol blending with petrol from July lst
5% alcohol until Sept. 1st
10% alcohol from Sept. 1st
1939
Joint Sales Company (Sekiyu Kychan) Capital 20,000,000 yen
M. 0. Co. - 28,940 shares - 1,447,000 yen
M. S. K. - 14,480 shares - 724,000 yen
Approved Directors Meeting August 16th
n
Joint Enterprise Co. (Kyodo Kygo) Dissolved Nov. 2lst. Taken over
by Army.
Tankage at Osaka, Yokohama, Kawasaki, Dairen, Tsingtao
MITSUBISHI OIL CO.
Six Months' Storage Reserve
Amounts Required to be Carried in Storage
From
To
Light Crude
Heavy Crude
April 1, 1935
September 30, 1935
239,639 Bb1s.
50,267 Bb1.
October 1, 1935
March 31, 1936
463,300 Bb1.
75,365 Bb1.
April 1, 1936
September 30, 1936
481,246 Bb1.
55,668 bb1.
October 1, 1936
March 31, 1937
557,125 Bb1.
62,365 Bb1.
April 1, 1937
September 30, 1937
625,405 Bb1.
63,894 Bb1.
October 1, 1937
March 31, 1938
668,576 Bb1.
58,613 Bb1.
April 1, 1938
September 30, 1938
743,686 Bb1.
55,465 Bb1.
October 1, 1938
March 31, 1939
757,165 Bb1.
54,987 Bb1.
-3-

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.96)
1,1939
September 30, 1939
619,622 Bb1.
71,149 Bb1.
detober 1, 1939
March 31, 1940
560,980 Bb1.
93,142 Bb1.
The amount of storage reserve to be carried under the provisions of the
Control Law is one half of the amount cleared through Customs by the Company
during the twelve months ending on the previous December 3lst for the
April-September period and ending on the previous June 30th for the October-
March period.
A shortage of reserve in heavy crude could be offset by an increase
in the light crude reserve carried.
Crude Oil Tankage on November 1, 1939 -
14 Tanks - A.P.I. 82,000 bb1. each 120 ft. diam. - 40' 6" high.
1 Tank - A.P.I. 51,000 bb1. each 102 ft. diam. - 35' 0" high.
Believes has not been increased since 1939, as storage tankage was
more than adequate.
SALES QUOTAS FOR 1938 - JAPAN PROPER
QUOTAS IN CASES OF 36 LITRES EACH
Company
Petrol
Kerosene
7,574,083 Cases
1,192,722 Cases
Nippon Oil Co.
4,445,861
11
774,083
n
Ogura
2,945,611
379,111
n
Mitsubishi
1,472,111
n
432,111
n
Hayama
763,417
n
161,695
n
Aikoku
1,459,472
n
Nisso
87,556
Maruzen
18,298,111
n
2,939,722
n
Total
-4-

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.98)
ing Sun Pet. Co.
7,086,222
784,083
館
Sócony Vacuum
4,677,972
n
729,806
Total
11,764,194
18
1,513,889
n
Niitsu
484,444
n
96,250
Others
67,140
n
311,250
n
551,584
n
407,500
n
Grand Total
30,613,889
n
4,861,111
n
1938 is the last year for which figures are available for all companies.
Each company sold up to full quota and were held to quota. Consequently,
these figures are equivalent to consumption.
SALES QUOTAS - 1938 - JAPAN PROPER
Fuel Oil
Gas Oil
Lubricating Oil
Domestic
Imported
Company
Kilolitres
Kilolitres
Kilolitres
Kilolitres
Nippon
232,078
36,443
61,959
67,353
Ogura
62,544
22,213
38,936
Mitsubishi
57,619
135,579
6,266
10,155
Hayama
36,260
9,885
8,883
12,359
Aikoku
12,644
3,469
3,484
Maruzen
4,228
4,852
16,258
Mitsui Bussan
348,667
Asahi
91,178
3,910
12,878
Doi
65,946
-5-

=== Page 381 === (confidence 1.00)
Sun
392,982
Vacuum
52,988
Others
12,627
48,032
3,808
7,242
Niitsu
850
6,000
Echigo Group
14,391
32,908
Tobe
2,158
7,768
Toyo Shoko
1,215
3,944
Toyo Sekiyu
4,488
12,614
Yamabun
1,835
8,765
Wada
3,390
3,600
Nagai
2,400
710
Nankai
1,402
4,017
Ushida
882
3,145
1
Fuji
516
1,478
Edogawa
3,451
11,354
Kyushu
1,416
3,338
Morohashi
850
574
Nippatsu
395
2,120
Others
Grand Total
418,000
1,081,700
155,000
271,000
1938 is the last year for which figures are available for all companies.
-6-

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.99)
PETROL QUOTAS - JAPAN PROPER
1938
1936
1937
1935
(Cases)
(Cases)
(Cases)
(Cases)
7,086,222
8,625,000
8,625,000
8,625,000
MRising Sun Pet. Co.
4,677,972
5,693,806
5,693,806
5,694,444
*Standard Vacuum
7,574,083
8,205,278
9,347,083
7,513,889
Nippon Oil Co.
5,638,889
4,445,861
4,693,889
4,180,555
Ogura Oil Co.
2,945,611
3,018,472
3,158,333
2,805,555
Mitsubishi Oil Co.
1,995,639
1,459,472
1,740,834
*Japan Soviet Oil Co. 1,416,667
1,809,167
1,472,111
1,194,554
Hayama Oil Co.
763,417
968,722
513,055
Aikoku Oil Co.
87,556
66,666
111,111
Maruzen Oil Co.
484,444
Niitsu Oil Co.
一
67,140
356,778
430,028
1,704,944
Others
* - Imported from abroad as petrol or as kerosene. All other companies'
petrol and kerosene distilled from foreign and domestic crudes.
KEROSENE QUOTAS
784,083
784,083
752,444
820,000
R.S.P. Co.
729,806
729,806
700,333
749,167
*Standard Vacuum
1,146,389
1,192,722
855,833
680,556
Nippon Oil Co.
774,083
745,306
774,084
746,333
Ogura Oil Co.
379,111
304,000
256,944
180,556
Mitsubishi Oil Co.
432,111
222,556
333,111
Hayama Oil Co.
161,695
66,639
157,722
Aikoku Oil Co.
-7-

=== Page 383 === (confidence 1.00)
Itsu Oil Co.
90,861
81,972
96,250
Others
一
198,250
272,167
311,250
1 Case equals 36 Litres
36 Litres equal 92 U. S. Gallons
1 Barrel equals 4.42 cases
LUBRICATING OIL QUOTAS - JAPAN PROPER
1935
1936
1937
1938
Domestic Lubricating Oil
(Cases)
(Cases)
(Cases)
(Cases)
Refiners
Hayama Oil Co.
297,221
312,997
343,305
343,305
Niitsu Oil Co.
466,667
336,331
202,250
166,667
Echigo Oil Co.
774,944
718,609
921,472
914,000
Nippon Oil Co.
2,346,639
1,810,275
1,875,694
1,875,000
Tobo
58,333
148,914
216,667
216,667
Toyo Shoko
48,611
61,970
109,222
109,222
Toyo Sekiyu
262,500
282,581
350,639
350,000
Ogura Oil Co.
972,139
916,608
1,009,722
1,080,000
Wada
83,333
69,110
108,333
100,000
Nagai
40,278
37,774
24,806
19,750
Nankai
58,610
112,028
111,500
Ushida
101,389
89,775
87,722
87,722
Maruzen
366,667
417,414
453,500
453,500
Fuji
27,778
32,192
41,250
41,250
Edogawa
344,333
299,693
316,667
316,667
-8-

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.99)
34,722
70,027
97,083
97,08
291,667
298,859
359,167
357,500
131,138
93,083
93,000
312,222
271,553
283,167
283,167
rtsubishi Oil Co.
4,685
15,950
Morohashi
59,000
Nippatsu
150,000
162,109
243,639
243,639
Osaka Koyu
200,000
Others
6,979,443
6,526,539
7,254,101
7,534,589
1 Case equals 36 Litres
36 Litres equal 92 U. S. Gallons
Above quota is for Lubricating Oils Refined in Japan from Domestic and Imported
Crude Oils, Distillates and Topped Crudes.
PETROL OIL QUOTAS - JAPAN PROPER.
1936
1937
1938
1935
(Cases)
(Cases)
(Cases)
(Cases)
Domestic Refiners.
206.609
258.750
247.000
249.999
Hayama
486.111
225.526
152.361
24.600
Niitsu
325.635
415.139
400.000
414.611
Echigo
1,919.278
1.819.552
1.834.861
1.720.000
Nippon Oil Co.
27.778
42.804
51.667
60.000
Tobo
13.889
16.943
30.944
33.800
Toyo Shoko
122.222
110.804
123.333
125.000
Toyo Sokiyo
-9-

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.99)
961.472
809.360
675.417
6172000
44.444
37.192
48.750
51.000
105.555
78.498
118.778
94.000
111.111
112.526
75.278
66.667
Nankai
16.386
38.528
38.528
8
Ushida
33.333
26.004
24.444
24.500
Maruzen
69.444
105.908
163.639
135.000
Fuji
12.500
14.166
16.667
14.300
Edogawa
123.611
92.304
94.556
96.000
Aikoku
11.111
49.999
135.139
96.400
Asahi
129.617
121.636
111.667
108.750
Kyushu
98.555
36.111
39.300
Mitsubishi Oil Co.
148.889
139.553
178.333
174.000
Morohashi
7.324
23.600
1
Nippatsu
11.000
Others
106.000
4,984.525
4.449.960
4.584.362
4.306.445
Above quota is for Petrol oil Refined in Japan From Domestic and Imported Crude
Oils, Distillates, Topped Crudes.
1 Case equals 36 Litres.
36 Litres equal 92 U. S. Gallons.
FUEL OIL QUOTAS - JAPAN PROPER.
1935-1938.
(Chosen and Taiwan Not Included).
1935
1936
1937
1938
Domestic Quotas.
Kilolitres.
Kilolitres.
Kilolitres.
Kilolitres.
Nippon Oil Co.
84.000
181.768
249.763
232.078
-10-

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.97)
Co
28.000
65.304
62.598
62.544
ubishi Oil
Co.
29.000
52.983
58.000
57.619
Hayama Oil Co.
14.000
19.038
37.163
36.260
Aikoku Oil Co.
8.087
13.800
12.644
Marusen Oil Co.
4.770
4.228
一
Niitsu Oil Co.
一
7.991
一
Nagai Oil Co.
一
一
3.859
一
Others
28.682
30.917
7.056
12.627
Asahi Oil Co.
1
93
一
一
Total Domestic Quota
183.682
358.190
445.000
418.000
Fuel Oil made from Domestic and Imported Crude Oils.
Imported Fuel Oil Quotas
Mitsui Bussan Kaisha
178.500
247.500
300.000
248.667
Asahi Oil Co.
102.460
87.679
110.000
91.178
Doi Shoten
一
一
79.560
65.946
Nippon Oil Co.
73.769
54.823
44.214
36.443
Mitsubishi Shoji Kaishen96.000
120.314
167.750
135.579
Hayama Oil Co.
6.000
4.610
16.297
9.885
Osaka Koyo
15.000
一
一
Hayashikane
一
一
17.800
一
Nippon Gyomo
一
18.000
Nippon Tanker
一
2188
一
6.673
Asuma Seiko
一
一
一
Others
70.634
101.216
一
48.032
-11-

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.99)
Sun Pet Co.
465.000
463.000
465.000
Standard Vacuum Co.
70.500
62.618
62.698
52.988
Total Imported Quota
1.062.863
1.141.810
1.305.180
1.081.700
Imported as fuel oil from U.S.A. or N.E.I. for Industrial Use Only. Not include
imports in Navy Tankers.
Total Fuel Oil Quota
Equals
Total Fuel Oil Consumption
1.246.545
1.500.000
1.750.180
1.499.700
1 Barrel equals 6.29
Kilolitres
7.853.233
9.450.000
11.025.000
9.448.110
Barrels
Barrels
Barrels
Barrels.
According to this Bureau's source, the problem of the fuel oil reserve
in Japan was discussed with the British and United States Naval Attaches late in
1939. At that time there was an estimated fuel oil reserve equal to about two
and one-half years' peace time consumption. Presently these reserves are be-
lieved to be enough for about two years' peace time supply. The efficiency in
refineries is believed to be lower than in l939 due to corrosion of steel and
the difficulties of replacing parts. Labor efficiency is also believed to be
lower.
The following details of the aluminum producing firm of Nichito
Kogaku Kogyo K.K. are being set forth as a matter of possible interest:
Factory in Hachinoke City, Aomori Prefecture.
Capital Yen 20,000,000 with Yen 12,000,000 paid up.
Principal Shareholder - Sai Nihon Sato K.K., one of the
Mitsubishi group, holding 135,000 of the 400,000 shares
issued.
Aluminum Output - 1940 - 1,200 Kilo Tons
1941 projected 3,000 Ki1o Tons.
New Material imported from the Netherlands East Indies.
This factory also has a rated capacity for Ammonium
Sulphate of 36,000 Kilo Tons annually.
A report has also been received indicating that Ebihara Jidosha
Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha, which formerly assembled small motorcycles and
lauries, was converted about a year and ahalf ago to war production.
-12-

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.98)
This firm is now engaged in producing naval aero-bomb casings, armored motor-
oyoles, trucks and other armed vehicles. The factory is located at No. 902-
910, Haneda Moto-cho, Kamata-Ku, Tokyo, and employs a maximum of two hundred
In this connection, it has been learned that the Hakodate Dockyard
Company, in April, 1941, increased its capitalization from about Yen 7,000,000
to Yen 25,000,000 for the purpose of constructing a dry dock for 10,000 ton
ships, as weli as for the improvement of and addition to their equipment.
Since the ban on imports of asphalt to Japan more than a year ago,
the use of this product by civil manufacturing plants was denied as from
March, 194l. Considerable supplies of asphalt from imported crude oil are
all being stored for military use. The Japanese Manufacturers of Asphalt
Roofing Association appealed for aid to the Ministry of Commerce, but were
told by the military members of the appeal committee of the Ministry that the
Japanese Army has a more important use for asphalt than the manufacture of
asphalt roofings. It is reported that this important use is believed to be
in connection with the air fields on the Manchukuo and Siberian border and
in the Peiping, North China, area.
Because of their inability to secure electric motors, manufacturers
of air cooling equipment have been unable to produce any new units. The most
important of these manufacturers is the Tokyo Carrier Company of Tokyo, the
sole remaining stocks of which were taken over by the Japanese Navy for use
on hospital ship operating rooms.
Considerable dislocation of cargo handling between Japan and China
is caused by priority being demanded for army shipments. In many reported
cases, ships are fully loaded and ready to sail when the army insists on the
unloading of their cargo in order to make room for army supplies
-13-

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEI
Asuncion
This tElegram must bE
FROM Dated October 21,
olosely paraphrassd bE-
fore being communicated
Reold 6r25 pom.
to anyonε. (br)
Division of
FAR EASTERW AFFAIRS
2y, sentts:
SEorEtary of StatE,
NOV 1
10/28/41
EOiGae
Washington.
Department of Sta
894.24/1760
170, October 21, 5 p.m.
894.24/1765
ReferencE DEpartmEnt's tElegram no. 102,
October 18.
Information availablE locally indicates
only small shipments of cotton to Barranqueras,
894.24
Argentina in traneit to undEtErmined forEign
dEstinations. Embassy at Buenos Aires has bEen
rEquEsted to sEek to vErify any outgoing ehip-
89324
mEnts of this Paraguayan cotton.
FROST
NOV.6 1941
[FILED
KLP
PS/VB
1765

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.96)
,U.S.A.
50 Wost 50 th Pra
NewJork,
u 18, 1940.
OF
Mr. Harold . Mosele
ON POLITIC
Divicjon of
Division of Copt
 EASTERN AFFAIRS
Department oftate,
WN 27 1940
Washington, D.
Department of Sh
Dear Mr. Moseley
Pursuant to our telephone talk this morning, we en-
close photostette cony of our contract of July 19, 1928 between
Universel Cil Froducts Company und isashi Sekiguchi granting rights
to our crac inn ati oroce ses. The coutract wes assigned
Mr.
by Sekiguchi to the Tupa Suscline Company with our consent.
You
Masao Saneyoshi is the P jnt of Japan Gasol Lhe Company.
have been completely infort d of our supplementary agreement negoti-
ated with  aneyoshi in l9yo covering richts under all our later pro-
cesses including those ror te production of high grade aviation gasoline.
We an also e closi' copy of Summons and Complaint
ir the action brougnt against us by the Japan Gasoline Company Ltd. in
894.24
the District Court of the United States for the District of Delaware.
The present demands or the Japan Gasoline Company with
which we are immedia; ly faced are for the plans and specifications
for a cracking plant for the production of the type of motor fuel that
is generally used here and abroad as motor gasoline. The contract
of Japan Gasoline Company is with Mitsui Mining Company in Japan whieh the
Japan Gasoline Company has licensed under the rights received from us
in our 1928 agreement.
Our counsel advises us there is little likelihood we
will be able to successfully defend thie suit under the present state
of the law and unlese legislation is obtained by the Govornment direet-
ing us to refuse to deliver the designs and specifications, ete. called
for by our agreements we will be compelled to comply or the damages
for failure to supply this data may run into crippling amounts.
Mr. Saneyoshi is now enroute here and is due ta Seattle
in the next few days from where he is to fly to New York to be hor 
June 25th.
Me, therefore, should like to have the position of ti
Govermment definitely defined by that time.
Yours very truly,
Halle

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF CONTROLS
June 24, 1940.
Mr. Bebylo:
I should greatly appre-
clate it if you would indicate
the reply which should be made
to Mr. Halle.
Joseph C. Green
CO:HWM:EJF
MR

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENTOFSTATE
DIVISION OF CONTROLS
RECEIVED
OCT231941
MEMORANDUM
DIVISION.O
JUN 2 2 1940
left
MR. BERLE
OF
894.24/1767
Co - Mr. Grben:
Division of
TET
FR EASTERN AFFAIRS
PA/H:
A-BC
JUN 27 1940
MR.
JUN 28194
epartment of Stat
Products Company, telephoned from New York today and said
that he would like to inform the Department that his com-
pany has been served with a summons and a bill of complaint
by the Japan Gasoline Company which is bringing suit against
the Universal Oil Products Company for its failure to com-
plete its contract whereby plans and specifioations would
be furnished for the construction of gasoline cracking
plants in Japan.
P
Mr. Halle stated that his company may have a ten-million-S
/MCS
dollar suit on its hands as a result of its adherence to
the "moral embargo", and he wished to be assured that ho
had the "backing" of the State Department. He said that,
if this case comes up in court, he wanted to be assured
that he could say that the reason the Universal Oil Prod-
ucts Company did not complete its contract was that it
OCT 2 3 1941
had been requested by the State Department not to do so.
I

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
I suggested to Mr. Halle that he write a letter to
the Department setting down all the pertinent facts in
this case and assured him that his problem would receive
the attention of the officers of the Department.
Mr. Halle volunteered the information that the Tide-
water Associated Oil Company of San Francisco now owns
with the Mitsubishi interests a half interest in an oil
refinery located in Japan.
Harold W. Moseley
Co:HWM:HJG

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.98)
TMENT OF STATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
REOEIVED
DIVISION OF CONTROLS
OCT23 1941
MEMORANDUM
DIVISION OF
June 19, 1940.
liee
Division of
FA EASTERN AFFAIRS
OF
CO
JUN 27 1940.
Co - Mr. Grben:
JUN221940
FE:
Ochartment of State
MR. BERLE
PA/H;
A-B:L
894.24/1768
Mr. H. J. Halle, President, Universal Oil Products
Company, telephoned from New York today and said that he
hoped that the Department would do all that it could to
have plans, specifications, and technical information re-
quired for the construction of gasoline and oil refineries
inoluded among those articles the export of which will be
subject to control under the pending defense legislation.
He stated that this appeared to be a fine opportunity to
obtain a legal basis for the moral embargo.
I told Mr. Halle that this matter was now under con-
sideration and that I would inform him if anything definite
PS/MCS
developed.
Mr. Halle said that Mr. Saneyoshi, President of the
Japan Gasoline Company, was expected to arrive in New York
Monday to press legal action against the Universal Oil
0
Products Company for its failure to carry out its contraot
2
31941
Mr. Halle added that he hoped that he might have some
word from the Department by Monday that he could count
on the Department's "backing" in this suit for damages
which

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
which is being brought against his company by the Japan
Gasoline Company.
Harold W. Moseloy
Co:HWM:HJG

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF CONTROLS
MEMORANDUM
June 21, 1940.
JUN221940
Co - Mr. Loreen:
894.24/1769
Division of
FE:
PA/H:
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
A-B:
JAN 27 1940
Dupartment of State
The legal action which the Japan Gasoline Company is
bringing against the Universal Oil Products Company in-
volves two contracts, the substance of which is summarized
below.
Under one contract dated July 19, l928, the Universal
Oil Products Company agreed to make available to the Japan
Gasoline Company without limitation of time oertain teohni-
cal information and patent rights for the processing or
refining of petroleum within the Empire of Japan for a
consideration of one million dollars. This contract evi-
dently related to processes for the production of motor
PS/MCS
gasoline. Under this contract the Universal Oil Products
Company during 1939 and January 1940 carried on negotia-
tions with Mitsui and Company through the Japan Gasoline
Company to submit drawings and plans for the installation.
C
gasoline.
The

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
The delivery of this information apparently is not
directly subject to the Department's policy which relates
to the delivery of plans, plants, manufacturing rights, or
technical information required for the production of high-
quality aviation gasoline. From the Department's earlier
correspondence with Mr. Halle, it appeared that the Universal
Oil Products Company planned to go ahead with the sale of
the plans for these cracking plants. Mr. Halle had been
informed that it was up to each individual company to
decide whether a particular transaction was or was not sub-
ject to the policy in question. It later developed that
Mr. Halle decided to call off the negotiations for the sale
of this information. He said that he reached this decision
after conversations with officers of the Department who,
according to Mr. Halle, did not definitely state that this
particular transaction was contrary to the Government's
polioy, yet gave the impression that the Department cid
not look with favor upon its consummation. It may be
noted at this point that Mr. Halle has consistently urged
a broadening of the policy to include motor gasoline which
he states is readily stepped up to aircraft grade.
The other contract is one involving the furnishing
of rights, plans, and information for the construction
of an imo-octane plant. The delivery of such information
1s

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
is definitely within the scope of the policy. This con-
tract, dated August 19, 1938, was a result of a dispute
over the inclusion of certain information under the l928
contract, and provided for an additional million dollars
to be paid to the Universal Oil Products Company. Seven
hundred thousand dollars have been paid under this contract,
the remaining $300,000 to be paid upon the delivery of cer-
tain plans and the completion and satisfactory operation
of the plant. The details of both contracts are set forth
in the bill of complaint which is enclosed with Mr. Halle's
letter of June 18.
Under this latter contract, an iso-octane plant has
been partly construoted in Japan, but it cannot be com-
pleted until the Universal Oil Products Company releases
further information. Universal has withheld this informa-
tion in cooperation with the Government's policy. This
partioular contract has been the subject of considerable
discussion with members of the Japanese Embassy. It was
referred to in the Embassy's note of January 6, 1940, and
in conversations with Mr. Morishima, Counselor of the
Embassy, on January 30 and March 5.
y
Harold W. Moseley
Co:HWM:HJG

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEI
THE AME
D-PATMENT OF-S
GB
MEx1Co
This teitgram must bE
FROM
olosely paraphrased bE-
Dated Cctober 23, 192
fore being communicated
to anyónE. (br)
Rec'd 4:59 p.m.
Division of
FAR EASTERN FEAIRS
SEcrEtary of StatE,
0341941
10/28/41
Washington.
EO:EGC
Department of State
894.24/1760
554, October 23, noon.
ReferencE DEpartment's tElegram of October 18
No. 586.
894.24/1770
Mexican official statistics for August indicate
894.24
no cotton shipments to Janan in that month. No later
statistics available. PrivatE advices are to Effect
no shipments cotton madE to Japan sincE August 1. OnE
firm rEports they underetand approximately 800 bales
linters shipped Japan sincE August 1.
MCGURK
NOV4 1941
P
JRL

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.97)
C
AMERICAN CONSULATE
TMENIOFSA
Manzanillo, Colima
October 21, 194
2.DIVISION OF
941 OCT 24 PM I
12:30
avision of
OCT 2 7-1941
PAFEASTERN AFFAIRS
STRICTLY CONEIDENTIA
THE AMERIDÁN REPUBLICS
COMM NS OCT 30 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AIR MAD
Department of
SUBJECT:
1-1055
N0V-1-1941
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
I have the honor to refer to my despatch no.17
894.24/1771
dated October 9, 1941 concerning an attempt to ship
contraband mercury from Manzanillo on board the Jap-
anese vessel AZUMA MARU, and in this connection to
report further as follows:
On October 7, 1941 this office was informed by
the Chief of the local freight office that railway
box car number NM 61044 had arrived at Manzanillo
consigned to Sr. Antonio Llorens, manifested as con-
taining 61 drums of bronze. The administrador of the
customshouse was immediately informed, and he promised
to take action in the matter. A few days later the
customshouse advised that there was no car  that
number here.
A check was made with the information on hand
at this office, and it was found that thel eustomsheus
had made an error in transcribing the number of the
car. The correction was made and anotherfnvesig
tion ordered.
RECORD
.On October 13, the customshouse chief informed
this office that the car had been ordered reshipped
to Tampico, and had left Manzanillo October 9 con
signed to Morales, Fernandez y Cia., at Tampico. 
This Vice Consulate immediately telegraphed this
information to the Embassy in Mexico City as wellas
to the Consulate in Tampico, and local Mexican auho-
rities advised their various superior offices.
From press notices received here, it appears
that
NOV
1942

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
that the car has been embargoed in Tampico, and
that a considerable quantity of mercury has been
found.
It is believed that the same persons involved
in the matter of the contraband mercury discovered
here are responsible for this additional contraband.
Respectfylly yours,
Henry A. Aloyt
Henry/A: Hoyt
AmericanVice Consul
File no. 71l.2
HAH/1g
In quadruplicate to the Department;
Original by Airmail;
Copy to Embassy;
Copy to Consulate General;
Copy to Naval Attaché;
Copy to Guadalajara.

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.90)
EMBASBY OF
DEPANTMENT OF STATE
UNITED STATES dF
ut
Rio de Janeiro, Ootober 22, 1941.
D
Subjeot: Recent Purchasing Aotivities in Brazil
of Japanese Agents.
Original and Four Copies by Airmail---Confirmation
Copy by Steamer.
cupyinch
ReldLim
NOV1941
ivision of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
REOEIVEI
2M
1941
94
Department of State
894.24/1772
DIVISION O
CONI
11-17-41
ONI
Per Dirtriboti
894.24
The Honorable
NOV 1 5 1941
The Seoretary of State,
DET OF STATE
Washington.
NOV 2 5 1941
Sir:
FILED
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
instruetion of September 26, 1941/(File No. 701.9410/
loA), in regard to the increase in personnel of Jap-
anese missions in certain of the other American Re-
publies and in particular to the paragraph of the in-
struotion suggesting that Japanese officials are
being/
OLQGq
seg
BOTTCST G

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
being sent to South America to outbid the United
States for strategic minerals. The Embassy has
learned from a reliable source that there arpived
in Brazil in August two Japanese, Hiroshi Yoda and
Yoshio Kobayashi, who were reported to be acting
as purchasing agents for the Japanese Navy in the
procurement of rock crystal. It was reported that
these individuals were contemplating working the
quartz crystal into little images for the purpose
of circumventing export restrictions which prohibit
the shipment of this commodity to areas other than
the United States. The Embassy has reported this
case to the Bank of Brazil, with the request that
exportation be prohibited.
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
John F. Simmons,
Counselor of Embassy.
IBW/MVJ
File 701.
X

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
DIVISLNOF
docth194
FROMAIN
LET
THE AMERICAN REPOBLICS
DEPARMENT OF STATE
Asuncik
Division of
Undatd
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
NOV4
Rec'd..Oçtober 28, 1941
Department of State
2:53 p.m.
Recd i0-29-41
SEcretary of StatE,
Washington.
94.24/1773
.894.24/1765
894.24
175.
ReferencE my 170. October 2lst. BuEnos Aires
reports no shipments manifested.
FROST
CSB
PS

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISION OF
OCT 2 9 1941
THE AMERICAN REPUBLIOS
DEPARTMENT OF STATEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
Tel ToRA IN
Fsy
Division of
Defense Materials
Buenos Aires, October 17, 1941
DEC 9 - 1941
Central Information Office
AIR MAIL
(C.I.O.) report
Department of State
OCT 31 1941
No. 3333
SUBJECT: SHIPMENTS OF MERCURY FROM SPAIN
TO JAPAN VIA ARGENTINA
WS
Strictly Confidential
894.24/1774
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Divicion of
NOV 17 1941
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
V11941
DIVISION OF EXPORTS
The Honorable
AND DEFENSE AID
Department of State
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to the Embassy's despatch No. 3213
of October 3 last, regarding shipments of mercury from
PT ED
Spain to Japan via Argentina and the arrangements made
for their payment in this city, I have the honor to re-
1941
port that the British Embassy has received a telegram
from the Ministry of Economic Warfare in reply to an
inquiry as to why, in view of our.own Government's efforts
a
/ Carbon copies
doetM.R.m.

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
to curtail the supplying of Japan with Mexican mercury,
the British authorities had issued certificates permitting
this Spanish mercury to be shipped to Japan. A paraphrase
of the pertinent part of the message, which is dated
October 15, is given below:
"The belligerent rights of our Govern-
ment do not, of course, permit us to stop
shipments to Japan from neutral countries in
the absence of evidence that the goods are to
go to the enemy or are to benefit him. We are,
however, fully aware of the importance of ob-
structing to the maximum the shipment to Japan
of merchandise of a vital character from the
Iberian Peninsula. Instructions were sent last
September 3 to the British Ambassadors to Spain
and Portugal to the effect that future applica-
tions for certificates covering articles con-
signed to Japan, whether directly or indirectly,
must be referred to the consideration of the
Ministry of Economic Warfare. It is the inten-
tion of the Ministry to hinder to the very utmost
shipments of this nature by means of administra-
tive delays. Owing, however, to both the afore-
mentioned legal aspect and the relations of the
British Government with Spain, such delays cannot
be prolonged for indefinite periods. The mercury
shipments by the Mar Cantabrico and the Aldecoa
were made prior to the adoption of these measures,
but a quantity of engines by the Mar Caribe are
understood to have been detained under the new
measure at Cadiz."
The British Ambassador has informed this Embassy
that his Government has every wish to cooperate with the
United States Government to the greatest extent possible
in efforts to prevent the shipment of mercury to Japan
and that his Government would welcome any proposals that
our Government would be dispomed to make in regard to
shipments of the article from Spain to Japan.
Subsequent to the sending of the Embassy's despatch
no. 3213 of October 13, it was learned that the 5,000
flasks of mercury which were shipped to Japan from here

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.98)
-3 -
on August 28 had arrived from Spain on the Aldecoa (2,000
flasks) and the Mar Cantabrico (3,Ooo flasks), and not on
the Mar Caribe, as was reported in the despatch aforemen-
tioned. It is understood that 5,O00 flasks, which ap-
parently arrived on the Mar Caribe, are still here await-
ing shipment.
Respectfully yours,
Copies to the Embassies
at Tokyo and Madrid.
File No. 863.7
Qn.
JWG:mc
4

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAMREC
GRAY
FROM
Buenos Aires
Dated October 28, 1941
Rec'd 4:25 a.m.; 29th
Secretary of State
894.24/1775
Washington.
894.24/1760
1212, October 28, 9 p:m:
Department's tElEgram no: 809  October 18,
894.24
9 p.m.
AvailablE Export statistics and information
from tradE sources rEvEal no (repEat no) Exports
of cotton from Argentina to Japan sincE August.
ARMOUR
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
NOV 4 1941
Department of 
RR
NOV5
FILED
169

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.96)
THE AMERICAN REPUBLICS
D-PARTMENT OF STATE
LET
Buenos Aires
This tElEgram must bE
FROM
olosely paraphrased bE-
Dated October.29, 1941
forE being communicated
to anyonE. (Br)
Rec'd. 8:30 p.m.
Reckin Eo
Secretary of State,
Washington.
1217, October 29, 8 p.m.
Referring to the DEpartment's,telegrams nos.
894.24/1760
1760
8 p.m.
An Examination of shipping manifEsts fails to
894.24/1776
disclosE any shipmEnt of Paraguayan cotton to Japan
sincE August 1, 1941.
Division of
ARMOUR
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
NOV4
CSB
PS/BH
NOV 5 1941
FILED

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.94)
THE AMERICA
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
DEPARTMENTOE
Bunos ir
miistelegrem must bE
Dated November
1941
paost1y paraphrased bE-
forE bEing communicatedFROM
to anyonE. (C)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
Washington
NOV 1 5 1941
E1894.24/1174
1243, NRMENT OP STATE
DEpartment's tElE rem no. 865 October 31, 2 p.m.
894.24/177
It has now bEen lEarned that thE information
furnished by the British Embassy that there is now herE a
quantity of Spanish mercury dEstined for Japan is
Erroneous. The only shipments from Spain to errive
hErE in recent months amounted to 5000 flasks, a11
of which lEft for Japen in Auust.
With rEspEct to any futurE instances of this kind,
there appears to bE no lEgislation authorizing sEizure
for purposEs of hemisphere dEfensE of such trensshipments.
If cleared through customs, it is bEliEvEd that rEExport
could bE prEvented by dEcreE 97,752. Should c further
check indicctE ExistencE of sEizurE authority rEgarding
NOV 1 9 1941
transshipments, the DEpartment will bE advisEd.
FILED
ARMOUR
S
WIC
1177

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.88)
PARAP BACE OF TELERAN MGXIVED
FROMs
Ameriesa mkassy, Buemos Aires, Argeatime
DATEI
Movember , 191, 7 ..
.1
1243
Telegram no B6s, dated vatobor 31, 2 pomo, from the
Dejertmemt is referred to.
 have just been informed that the inrormatlon whlh
the Dritish abasey furnished thet there is s tuantits of
panlsh meroury here which is deatlaed for Japan is
1nsorteet. niy s0vo flnsks or meroury ha arrived nere
in the lmmt fow months, ll of whioh left in Ausmat for
Japan.
Ith regard to nay instanees of this nature mhieh mmy
arise in the futare, there doss nct seem to be any lagis-
Latiom eutharising the selzure of suek traneskipmemts fer
the purposes of hemisphere defense. If susk shipmonts
are cleared through customs, it is believed thet under
deoree no. 77,750, reexport could be provented. The
Department will be iafermed is upon further investigation
we fimed an indiestion of the existanee of seisure autherity
with regare to transskiypments.

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.95)
Assistant Seor
ofState
SEP18 1941
MR. ACHESON
10CR
British Embassy
Washington, D.C.
By Safe Hand
dite
16th September, 1941
TE
mn.
WSEP 3041
Dear MrReinstein,
1941
TIONS
STATE
As promised I enclose a
copy of the Cotton figures which I showed you
894.24/1779
this morning.
894.24
Yours sincerely,
DIVISION OF COMMERCIAL
TREATIES AND AGRELMENTS
John S. Dent
OCT 1 1941
FAD EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Deparim
Mr.Jacques J. Reinstein,
Division of Commercial Treaties and Agreements,
Department of State,
FILED
Washington, D.C.
PS/SMS

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.85)
Assistan: Beorotars
of State
SEP 18 1941
e
M-.
MR. ACHESON
    )
DCR4l
have besm used with a round bale being regarded as halr a bale.)
Tale he - b aletar yese
1987
1950
1950
1040
U.s. experts:
5,728,009
4,316,016
4,559,124 5,640,058
- to all csuntries
912,096
1,058,519
829,709
528,000
- to the Japamese Dapire
Indian experts:
3,008,500
2,128,085
- te all countries
1,000,104
899,400
641,478
- to the Japanese Eapire
Larsmese Immrte frem
3,786,200 2,845,800 2,798,00
all ceuntries:
 -    (spbr l - A )
19
1900/0
1989/40
U.s. experte:
6,867,000
- te all countries
674,607
851,495
895,800
- to the Japanese hapire
Ratian experts:
1,910,800
- to all ccumtrics
- to the Tapansee Regdre
1,068,918
606,000
Le estletal Indian statisties 
605,800
686,886 1,046,86
S. U.S.B.A. Meperts
2,148,800
2,086,908 2,608,906
2,906,000
2,000,000 2.909.000

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.87)
2.907/0
1090/0
1299/40
U.s. expertes:
- to all couantries
5,976,000
8,518,000
6,505,000
- to the Japanese Rapire
1. Statistieal Abstrast
691,000
864,000
914,000
2. ..D.. reports
656000
905,000
960,000
Ddtan experts:
- to all ceuxtries
1,721,000
2,685,000
2,004,000
- te the Japasese Dapire
759,000
1,035,280
643,650
Lammmre imperts from all countries:
2.595000
3,794,0
: In tables 2 and 5 abeve, since the perieds involved are sufficiently
similar, the "gape" in ome table might be filled by using the
cerrespemdins quantities from the other table. Sinee the cerrespeading
qmantities in the two tables are roughly iaterehangeable it is pessible
te eemplete either table in a weriable form.
 - 111910/42
Sopt.1-
Sopt.1-
Sopt.2-
April 50
Ju 30
Ang.8]
(amtieipated)
U.S.experts:
- to all countries
886,000
1,088,000
1,141,000
- to the Japameve Rapire
60,700
95,000
200,000 (maxim)
Indian experts:
- to all comtries
1,496,000
1,700,000
- to the Japannse Ragtse
640000
840,000
 erietal Indtan statissics
464,981
407,000
800,000
075,000
6.
1,010,000
2,206,000
1,800,000
( 2,142,800
1,06by000
2,396,000

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.83)
. Page Thee.
192710
1999/2
1999/40
120/4
U.s. arep
18,808,000 11,685,000 11,481,000 12,000,000 10,650,000
Indtan erop
4,780,000 4,848,000 4,186,000 (4,405,000 (4,000,000
(5,000,000(4,500,000
Japanese predustion: Mil.
9. r0xs in the V.8, A,, Ina and Japa
1. U.8.. Sk (es1mto)
Augmst 1, 1941 - 12,213,000 bales (as aga1nst 10,564,000 on mam date 1m 1940)
2. Indien stosks (estimato)
Agst 31, 1941 - 2,000,000 bales (as agaimst 1,254,000 bales e
same date 1n 1940)
(at the end ef May an amofficial eensas of exporters, dealers and mill owmers in
Bembay, Bengal, Karaehi, and Madras indicated that actual stecks were then
1,610,000 balos.)
S. Lame k
Mmay 1, 1941
- 400,000 bales 1n bended warohouses, in mills, and afleat
te Japan suffieient for appreximately six meaths ef
demestie requirements. (shanghai steeks, it might be
neted, were sufficient for ealy twe er three menths.)
Jume 15, 1941 - estimted that stecks 1n Japa, and eontrested fer bes
net yet delivered were maffieieat for abeut four mesths
at curremt lom sates of ecasemptiem; steces ectually
in Japan were surriciess ealy fee twe to tasee mauthe.

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.91)
P T
Total
Demestie
Expertable
...
12,215,000
10,680,000
28,863,000
9,718,000
15,145,000
2,000,000
4,800,000
6,500,000
2,954,000
3,566,000
The abeve estimte aceepts the figures given fer stosks and erepe
is the preeeding tables, and assumes that imports are ail and that demestie
somsmmption will be mmintaimed at the l940/41 level. If it is alme assumed
that experts will be mintained at the antieipated l040/4l lovel it is then
pessible to estimte the earryover at the end of the l94l/4s seasem:
Exportable
Antioipated
Expected
Surplus
Exporte
Carryover
(Ang.1942)
U.S.A.
15,145,000
1,14à,000
18,004,000
India
5,566,000
1,700,000
1,866,000
A cemparison of the 1941/4e  arryurort ostiated by thin methed
with the estimtes of stoaks for the present seasen saggests that the
pesition of beth the U.S.A. and India at the end of 1941/4s will met have
deterierated. In fast if each of these coustries imperts s00,o0e bales
(a qmantity in exeess of their mormal imperts) the pesition at the end ef
191/4s wil1 be about the same as at the nd of 1940/41.
Regarding cempetitive surplases in ether cotten predacing coantries
ef the Mestern Namiaphere sertain estimates may be advaneed:
s- steeks ef Ameriean type eetten, Jaly , 1941, were 1,s00,000 bales
Grey prespects were abeut mermal (2,450,000 bales). Mil1 cememmptien
was expected to reach so0, ese bales, leavins an antieipated expertable
sartme for 1961/48 et 3,180,000 bales, Gamda (000,000 bales)
and Spaia (19s,000 bales) aspear to have eeatrested in advanse fer
eonsédesable qessities as in preseding year.

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.83)
-   -
)
- steaks were enly 9s,080 bales (April loth). Grep prespests
were regarded as mormal (sss,000 bales). M11l coasumptien
was expested to be 3s,000 bales, leavi an expertable surplas
of 4,000 bales fer 194l/42. British purehases were still
largely waf1lled (som 10/1s,000 bales).
Amei - steeks were about 15, 000 bales. of the total crep ef ast,s00
bales only l40,000 bales could be regarded as geed grade cottem.
Simee the domestic mill 1mdastry requires about l85,000 bales, it
is apparemt that little cotton of exportable quality will be
available (even when allowance is mde for that part of the 194l/4s
arop whieh will come onto the mmrket before Augast of l96a). Am
estimte of 75,000 bales of "expertable surplus" has been reperted
by the trade. Even if Spanish parahases are mot continmed en
the seale of the preeeding year this mplus is met likely to
bo distarbing.
Is expeeted to have an exportable marplus of about s0,00o beles
(1.0. appreximtely twice as large as in 1940/41)
- Anticipates an expertable surplus ef seme 5,00o bales as in the
previous year. (This sarplus will probably be experted te
Japan wader the "link" arrangemont between the twe ceuntries).
Gn the basis of the abeve figures a reugh estimate ean be
mée ef the expertable marplas available in the Westera Hemisphere daring
2942/48 -
.
15,145,900
moam62
3,180,000
Fowe
406,000
Ag1
76,000
00,000
Meceegse
24.bales (Garsed Pemé)

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.84)
- PagMAx-
Brenght Forard -
16,900,000 bales
Gamtian coasmmption -
sss,000 bales
(es whick abous op
will be Bresilien à
Epertable Balanse
18% American)
frem Western Hemisphere
16,378,000 bales
Exportable Sarplas
in India
3,566,000 bales
(The abeve Western Hemisphere estimate igneres parehases
by the U.s.A. frem other sarplus-producing countries in the hemisphere sinse
these trammactions entail transfers of the surplas within the greuy but e
met affeet the asgregute surplus availasle in the Westere Hemisphere as a whele.)
(Stis rot ponaibe o stat hon mued ta ranine
SUPPLDENTARY NOTE:
Burmese statisties have been omitted from the above tables,
simse shipments from Burmm have not been regarded as Indiam exports after l9s9.
If it is desired to add the figures for Burme to the above tables, the
fellowing entries should be made:
Rnatien A - Tble :
1937/8
1938/9
1989/40
Darmese exports:
- to all coustries
85,815
76,788
88,922
- to the Japamesatapire 23, 579
42,598
10,564
Itien A - Rble 
1940/41
(80.1-.51)
Barmese experts (Estiated)
- te all countries
55,200
- to the Japanese hapire
32,000
1252/40
2010/42
2203/48
88,000
92,000
64,000
Demtie ml septien 1a B Ls o abes 9,0e bales,
  0/. .

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.82)
- Pege Sm-
Rian  Tbe 11
U.S. figares:
Dept.of Cemmree: Tor Grepe & Marhets 13/1/41 & 16/6/41;
and statistieal Abstraet, 1940.
Ladtan figares:
"Review of the Trade of India, l9se/m Indiam Trade
Cemmissiomer, New York; Foreign Creps & Marmets 1s/1/41
and 16/6/41.
Japamese figares: "Reviem of the Trade of Lndie l9ss/9"; Dept.of Cemmeree
D.B.I., Special Ciroular Ne.40S; For.Crops & Mcts.1s/1/41
copv marhet 15/9/41.
Al11 figures from Feroigm Crops & Markots 13/1/41, 5/5/41, 30/6/41, 4/8/41,
2s/a/al; alternative Indian figures from the Trade Cemissiomer;
Imsermatimmal Ref. Service, June l94l (Bept.of Cemmeree).
tn.
U.S. figares:
Statistieal Abstract, 1940; Cotten Situation Amgust 1941.
Indian figares:
Foreign Crops & Markets 19/z/41; Cotten Situation Aug.1941.
tin
U.S. figares:
As for "B"
Imdian figures: Fereign Crope & hrkets 17/z/41, 11/8/41
Japamese figures: Poreign Crope & Markets 30/6/41, 4/8/41
mangha1 figures: W.T. 558/220/41
etien
U.s. Gemsmaption figure: Cetton Situation, Augast 1961,
Imdian Gensamption
Foreiga Grope & Mhrbots, 17/2/41, 11/8/41
figure:
Pereigm Grope a Martete 2s/6/41, 25/8/41, 0/9/41
Reasa1:
Posal
Foroign Grope & Mmarbeee 19/2/41, 16/6/41
Peseign Grepe a mrhets 80/6/41, 28/a/41, 8/9/41
Pereign Grope à Mazints a/9/41

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.79)
• o-
mmlemmay Nete  based on Poreign Crops & Marksts 10/s/41
Prent Priee ata are siven in "Cotton Situation" August l941;
Fereign Grepe & Markets as/s/el, and in other isswes of Foreign Crepe
and Markets referred te under Section E.
.Rthi

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STAT
221941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
REGEIVED
LVISION OF EXPORTS
Memorandum of Conversation
941 0CT 23 PM 1 16 DATE: Ootober 4,
UBJECT:
Exports of nickel from New Caledbnia
CUMMUNICATIONS
yeR
AND RECORDS
fil
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. John Dent, British Embassy
Mr. J. J. Reinstein, A-A
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
OCT 15 194
Department of State
nu
OCT
194:
894.24/1780
1—1408
Mr. Dent said he wanted to call my attention to
the situation with regard to the exports of nickel from
New Caledonia as a matter of information. There is no
formal embargo on shipments to Japan, but as a practical
894.24
matter the ores (part of which are apparently mined by
Japanese interests) must be sold to a smelting company
which restricts its sales to Australia and New Zealand.
Mr. Dent said that since the situation achieves the desired
the Free French to take formal action against shipments
J.R
to Japan.
0CT 2 3 1941
J. J. Reinstein
FILED
PS/SMS
A-A:JJR:MFA

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.97)
A/A
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE:0etober 4, 1941.
UBJECT:
Raports of niekel frem Mew Galedomia
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. Jehn Dent, British Embassy
Mr. J. J. Reinstein, -A
COPIES TO:
PE, PA/H
1—1493
Mr. Dent said he wanted to call my attentiem to
the situation with regard to the experts of niekel from
Mew Caledemis as a matter of information. There is no
formal embargo on shipments to Japan, but as a practical
matter the eres (part of which are apparently mimed by
Japamese interests) must be sold to a smeltimg cempazy
which restriets its sales to Australia and New Zealand.
Nr. Demt said that simee the situation achieves the desired
result, the British do mot think it is necessary to press
the Free French to take formm) action against shipments
to Japan.
J. J. Reinsteim
A-A:JJR:NPA

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.97)
FE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATEDeteber 4, 1941.
SUBJECT:
Experts of niekel frem New Caledenia
PARTICIPANTS:
Nr. John Demt, British Eabassy
Mr. J. J. Reinstein, A-A
COPIES TO: FE, PA/
1-1493
Mr. Dent said he wanted to call my attentiem to
the situation with regard te the experts ef niekel from
Mew Caledenia as a matter of informatien. There is no
formal embargo on shipments to Japan, but as a practical
matter the eres (part ef whieh are apparently mimed by
Japamese interests) must be sold to a smelting cempany
whish restriets its sales to Australis and New Zealand.
Ir. Dent said that simee the situation ashieves the desired
result, the British do mot think it is nesessary to press
the Free Fremeh te take forme) action against shipments
to Japan.
J. J. Reimsteim
A-A:JJR:NFA

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATEDeteber 4, 1941.,
SUBJECT:
Eaperts ef miskel from New Galedemia
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. John Deat, British Eabassy
Mr. J. J. Reinsteim, A-A
COPIES TO:
FR, PA/M
eso
1-1493
Mr. Dent said he wanted to oall my attentiem to
the situation with regard to the exports of miskel from
Mew Caledonia as a matter of informatien. There is no
formal embarge en shipments to Japan, but as a practieal
matter the ores (part of which are apparently mimed by
Japanese interests) must be sold to a smelting cempany
whieh restriets 1ts sales to Australis and New Zealand.
Mr. Dent said that simse the sitwation mehieves the desired
result, the British do net think it is necessary to press
the Free Fremeh te take forma) action against shipments
to Japan.
J. J. Reinsteim
15
A-A:JJRINPA

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
RECEIVED
OCT 20 19A1E: 000ber 4, 1941.
DIVISION OF
fie
SUBJECT:
Exports of iron ore from the Phili
Japan
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. John Dent, British Embassy
Mr. J. J. Reinstein, A-A
ON POLITIBAL
Division of
COPIES TO:
PP/H.FE
F/D E/CTERN AFFAIBS
MR. HUANBECK
894.24/1781
ADVISER O
VA
OCT 16 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Department of
ere
1-1408
Mr. Dent came to see me today at the request of
Mr. Hall. He said that the information which had been
given to Mr. Hall by Mr. Acheson on September 27 had been
894.4
transmitted to London and that a telegram had been re-
ceived by the Embassy stating that the status of our
exports of iron ore to Japan was not entirely clear to
the British Government. He said that the British have
been permitting about 20,oo0 tons of ore a month to go
from Malaya to Japan and that they were not certain whether
they should now stop these statements or not. He asked
me if I could clarify the situation for him. I told him
FILEDPS/SMS
that we had received some information from the Philippines
regarding

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
garding the status of the quota and that I would check
with Mr. Acheson and get in touch with him.
After discussing the matter with Mr. Acheson, I
tolephoned Mr. Dent and gave him the following information.
The quota for exports of iron ore from the Philippines
to Japan has not been exhausted. Export licenses covering
about 160,000 tons of ore issued against the balance of
the quota are still outstanding. There is furthermore,
room within the quota for exports in addition to the ore
covered by the outstanding licenses. However, no ore has
actually left the Philippines since August 7 in view of
the failure of the Japanese boats to call at the islands.
I told him that with respect to the part of the quota for
which no licenses had as yet been granted, it was the plan
to have any new applications for licenses referred to
Washington where they would be held. The situation with
regard to the outstanding licenses is being looked into
and we were trying to find some way of dealing with this
aspect of the problem. Mr. Dent said that it appeared in
view of what I had said, that further exports were unlikely.
In reply, I repeated my statement that as to the outstanding
licenses we are looking into the situation to see what can
be done and that as a practical matter no ore 1s actually
J1R
moving because of the shipping situation.
J. J. Reinstein
A-A:JJR:MFA

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMIT OF STATE
Memorandumof Conversation
DATEDetober 4, 1941.
ICT: Exports of iron ore from thi Philippines to Japan
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. John Dont, Britiah mbassy
Mr. J. J. Reinatein, A
ON
ADVISER
MR. HORNBECK
COPIES TO:
PRYH.FE
0CT 16 1941
1-1403
Mr. Dent oame to see me teday at the request of
Mr. Hall. He said thet the information whion had been
given to Kr. Hall by Hr. Aoheson on September 27 had been
transmitted to London and that a telegram had been re-
celved by the Embassy stating that the status of our
exports of iron ore to Japan was not entirely clear to
the British Goverament. He said that the British have
been permitting about 20,000 tone of ore a month to go
from Malaya to Japan and that they were not eertaim whether
they should not step these statements or not. He asked
me if I could elarify the situation for him. I told him
that we had received some information from the Philippimes
regarding

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.96)
-2
segprding  status of the quote and that I would okeek
with Xr. Aobsen and get in touoh with him.
After dsomesing the matter with Mr. Aoheson, I
The quota for exports of iron ore from the Philippines
to Japan ias not been exhausted. Export licenses covering
about 1@0;000 tons of ore issued against the belance of
the quota are still outstanding. There is furthermore,
room withn the quote for exports in addition to the ore
covered bythe outstanding licenses. However, no ere has
aotually lct the Philippines since August 7 in view of
the failureof the Japanese boats to call at the islands.
I told him tat with respeot to the part of the quote for
which no lpouses had as yet been granted, it was the plan
to have any ne applications for licenses referred to
Washington whee they would be held. The situation with
regard to the atstanding licenses 1s being looked inte
and we were tryhg to find some way of dealing with this
aspect of the prblem. Mr. Dent said that it appeared in
view of what Ao hd said, that further exports were unlikely.
In reply, I repeated my statement that as to the outstanding
licensee we are loiking into the situation to see what cam
be done and that as a praotioal mtter ne ore is actually
moving beoause of the shipping situation.
J. J. Reimsteim
A-A:JJR:MFA

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ADVISERON POLITICAL RELATIONS
LATICAL RELAT
NBECK
October 9, 1941.
OCT16 1941
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ACT 10 1941
A：
Department of State
Reference my memorandum of conversation of
today with Baron van Boetzelaer on the subject of
the Washington Post AP article under the headline
894.24/1782
"3 Nations Act to Stop All Oil to Japan".
Baron van Boetzelaer again called on the tele-
phone to say that he had now learned that the Reuters
dispatch which was sent to the Indies had originally
been sent to London from Reuters' New York office
and was based upon the AP story from Washington.
894.24
Assistant Secretary
of State
OCT10194
Sestea 10/4,p.7
MR. ACHESON
OCT 1 7 1941
PA/H:AHiss:BGT
FILED
PS/SMS

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.94)
DATE! O0t
Baron van Boetzelaor, Minister Counselor of the
Netherlands Legation,
Mr. Alger Hiss.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
BSIAY
HURNBECK
Assistant Secretary
QCT 9 1941
of State
OCT 16 1941
OCI 1 0 1941
partment of 
DEPARTWENT OF STATE
Fistea 10/9, 07
MR. ACHESON
1782
Baron van Boetzelaer called me on the telephone
and asked me if I had seen an Associated Press story
appearing on page seven of today's Washington Post
under the headline "3 Nations Act to Stop All Oil
to Japan". I replied that I had heard of some such
story but had not yet seen it personally. He then
read to me the first santence of the article which reads
as follows:
"The United States, Great Britain and the
refugee government of the Netherlands, it was
learned authoritatively yesterday, have agreed
to stop all oil shipments to Japan."
00
FILHD
Baron van Boetzela

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
Baron van Boetzelaer said that the Legation
has received a cable from the Netherlands East
Indies to the effect that a similar Reuters dispatch,
which he assumed came from London, has been received
in the Indies but has not been published. The Indies
Government had asked the Legation whether there were
any developments with which the Indies Government was
not familiar. Baron van Boetzelaer said that he would
have to make some reply to this cable today.
I told him that I personally knew of no more
basis for this story than Baron van Boetzelaer himself
does. I said that I would consult my superiors in the
Department and that unless he heard further from me by
the close of business today, he could assume that the
Department has no further information on this matter
than I have.
[A copy of the article in question, obtained from
CI, is attached hereto.]
a
PA/H:AHiss:BGT

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.92)
OCT 9 - 1941
WASHINGTCN FCST
3 Nations Act to Stop All Oil to Japan
Tatuta Maru, to enable her to re-
States and Japan has beem theeke
turn to Japan. The Tatuta Maru
tically possible since July 
was permitted to come into port
after the freezing order so that it
could disembark its American pas-
Treasury must give permiesien 
sengers, and cargo, including silk. the Japanese elther to bring ia 
the asreemeat was made shortly
C
ther the thsee sovernments on July
 rame all Japanese assets in their
s that, the United States, he
Dartch Mmst Indies and various
Mritish possessions were the prin-
elpal sourees for oll for Japan.
The enly all that has left the
Maited States for Japan since July
2 was about ss,000 worth alloted
to the Japanese passenger liner
2

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.99)
Assistant Seoretary
of State
File
0CT101941
October 10, 1941
MR. ACHESON
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION
Mr. Nisiyama called this morning at Foreign Funds
Control, at his request, and was received by Messrs. Pehle
and Fox of Foreign Funds Control, and the undersigned.
Mr. Nisiyama referred to his conversation with Mr.
Fox of October 1, at which time Mr. Nisiyama inquired as to
the result of the Treasury Department's consideration of
the proposal of the Japanese to bring to the United States
gold or currency in payment for pending oil shipments. At
that time Mr. Fox replied that the proposal was still under
894.24/1783
consideration, pending the discussion of the problem before
the Interdepartmental Policy Committee of Foreign Funds Con-.
trol.
Mr. Nisiyama then stated that having had no word from
the Treasury about the previous proposal, it had been decided
by the Japanese Government to use South American bank balan-
894.2
ces in payment for the oil. He presented to Mr. Pehle a memo-
randum, a copy of which is attached, which states that the
position with respect to Japanese dollars in South America
had eased somewhat during recent weeks and that, accordingly,
840.51
arrangements had been made with the Banco de Brasil to trans-
fer certain funds to the Chase National Bank in payment for
the oil.
Mr. Pehle referred to the statement in the memorandum
about the easing of the Japanese dollar position in South
America and asked how this had been brought about. Mr. Nisi-
yama said there were two Japanese vessels with shipments from
Japan en route to the West Coast of South America. In answer
to Mr. Pehle's question as to whether these boats were carry-
43
ing gold, Mr. Nisiyama replied in the negative and stated that
there were only exports from Japan of merchandise on these
boats.
Mr. Pehle then recalled to Mr. Nisiyama that the ques-
OCT 1 8 1941
tion of the use of South American bank balances had first been
raised about six weeks ago and that while the Treasury was
FILHD
considering this problem, Mr. Nisiyama had stated that South
American balances were not available in payment for oil from
this

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
this country. Accordingly, Mr. Pehle stated that the con-
sideration of the use of South American balances had been
dropped, but that such consideration would now be reopened.
*********
本**本***********
Mr. Pehle then stated to Mr. Nisiyama that this Gov-
ernment was somewhat concerned with the situation of the
New York agency of the Yokohama Specie Bank. He said that,
as Mr. Nisiyama knew, this bank had effected substantial
cash withdrawals immediately prior to the freezing order
and also had issued instructions to their correspondents in
South America not to remit proceeds of collections of exports
to South America to the New York bank, as had been the usual
procedure. Mr. Nisiyama stated that he was familiar with
these matters. Mr. Pehle said that these factors, coupled
with the cessation of Japanese exports to this country, had
reduced the availability of dollar assets of the Yokohama
Specie Bank in New York and that the situation was aggravated
by the fact that this bank is the principal channel of re-
mittances from Japan to this country for such purposes as pay-
ment of American creditors for debts incurred prior to the
freezing, service on the Japanese Governmental debt, expenses
of Japanese diplomatic and consular officers and of Japanese
newspaper men, eto. He said that Mr. White, Superintendent
of Banks of the State of New York, had brought to the attention
of this Government the conditions of the Yokohama Specie Bank
in New York and that Mr. White was concerned that withdrawals
from the bank should proceed in a proper manner. Mr. Pehle then
stated that he understood that the officials of the Yokohama
Specie Bank had, within the last few days, taken the position
that the bank would not effect remittances to American mission-
aries in Japan unless free dollar accounts were set up to
the credit of the bank in this country. Mr. Pehle said that in
view of the obvious need of the Yokohama Specie Bank for dollar
assets, the Treasury Department had been surprised to hear that
the bank was insisting on the receipt of free dollars for this
purpose

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
purpose and suggested that Mr. Nisiyama might wish to dis-
cuss this matter with the officials of the Yokohama Specie
Bank. Mr. Nisiyama stated that he was familiar with the
position of the bank but that it was not so very desperate;
he said that the principal liability of the bank vas one of
approximately $6,000,000 incurred in connection with the sale
by American interests of a gold mine in Japan, which liability
matured in instalments over a period of the next two years; in
addition, Mr. Nisiyama said that the bank had available 15 to
17 million dollars of import bills covering silk  warehouses
which bills are being liquidated in good order. Mr. Pehle said
that he was familiar with these facts but that nevertheless
there were these large withdrawals required to be made from the
Yokohama Specie Bank for the purposesmentioned above and that
the bank authorities in New York were concerned that the rate
of withdrawal might so exceed the rate of realization on silk
bills that the condition of the bank might, at some time in the
future, become critical. Mr. Pehle suggested that Mr. Nisiyama
and the officials of the Yokohama Specie Bank might wish to
discuss this matter further with the New York State bank
authorities, and that Mr. Nisiyama might also wish to take up
with the officials of the bank the question of effecting re-
mittances to American missionaries in Japan against blocked
dollars. Mr. Nisiyama agreed with Mr. Pehle that this would be
a proper procedure for him to follow.
Toluller

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.84)
ld Tresuryi
)  30 d tk
the abore sgeed, a we siven to uaderatand thut the
Stt  mt L a pltio to
1ndieate
reh in to reply to the
Japanese
M old er doller bille from Japan
In pt 
Japasese taakers were being
kept at San
 vl hve waitd far too
long.
informed thet
the moneg
Beak 1n Bouth
to rovert to the
the Government of
.from Ris
de Jemeire.
Basse de Brtsl, wmiek will 
the of

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.93)
al Bank of San
i favor of
paid to Stan-
86,000.
Oity of Now
Mitsui asd
é to Richrield

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.93)
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
of stato
WASHINSTON, D. C.
OCT 1 4 19M
RLCEIVED
OCT22
DION OF
October 13, 1941.
Assistant sopretary of State
Dear Mr. Achdsoh:
In accordance with the decision reached at the meeting of the
Economic Defense Board committee on October 8, I a forwarding
894.24/1784
herewith a memorandum prepared in this Office on the subject of
preclusive buying of cotton in Latin America.
It is understood that this subject will be discussed at the next
meeting of the committee on Friday of this week at lo o'clock.
Sincerely yours,
Lecuhelen
L.Wheeler
Director
Enclosure
OCT 2 2 1941
FILED
PS/SMS
1184

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.98)
Assistant Seoretary 4
of State
OCT 1 4 1941
MR. ACHESON
October 13, 1941
PRECLUSIVE BUYING OF LATIN AMERICAN COTTON
A Proliminary Survey
1. - At the present time Japan is not purchasing cotton
from the United States and India, the principal prewer sources of
supply for that commodity. Except for the Japanese-controlled areas
of China, the main sources of supply still open to Japan are in Latin
America, primarily Brazil and Peru. Because of this fact and the fact
that cotton is about the only important industrial raw material pro-
duced in Latin America which is not now being bought or to be bought
on a virtually preclusive basis, the ouestion arises as to the
desirability end feasibility of joint United States - United Kingdom
action to acquire available supplies of cotton in Latin Americen
countries.
2. - The attached table (Table I) shovs the estimated
exportable surpluses of cotton in all the significant surplus producing
countries of the world. This table shows thet for the cotton marketing
year beginning august 1 there is anparently available in the world a
total exportable supply of about 25, 400,000 bales of which the United
States accounts for 13,264,000 bales or 52 percent, the British Empire
and protected countries account for about 7,748,000 bales or 31
percent, and Latin American countries account for 4,164,000 bales or
slightly over 16 percent. The remaining one percent is accounted
for mainly by Turkey and certain Portuguese possessions.

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.98)
一2-
3. - Of the 4,160,000 bales of cotton estimated to be
available in Latin American countries it is anticipated that over
3,000,000 bales would be available for purchase by the United States
and the United Kingdom. This latter figure assumes that about
900,000 bales may have been sold by the various Latin American coun-
tries to other parts of the Western Hemisphere, such es Canada, and
to other parts of the world, such as Portugal and Spain, not under
Axis control. It also considers that the United Kingdom already owns
about 100,O00 bales of cotton in Brazil and & small but undetermined
quantity in Peru.
4. - The cost of the available stocks in Latin America during
the marketing year beginning August 1, l94l, to the United States and/
or the United Kingdom is estimated to be approximately 120 million
dollars. This estimate is based on the quantity of 3,000,000 beles
and an average cost per bale of $40.00. This latter figure is above
the government loan rates currently in effect in Brazil and Peru.
5. - While Latin American cotton is now about the only
cotton other than Chinese available to Japan, it appears that actions
already taken in the way of freezing of funds and the closing of the
Panama Canal to Japanese ships has for the time being at least ended
shipments of Brazilian cotton to Japan. No shinments of Brazilian
cotton to Japan have been reported since about August 21 and no ship-
ments to China (Shanghai) since about September 6. Japan is, however,
continuing to secure cotton in Peru.
6. - The need on the part of Japan for Latin Americen
cotton will not be as urgent as might be thought because of the stocks

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.98)
13-
of cotton available in that country as of August 1 and the fact that
the greater part of Japan's export trade in cotton goods has been
lost. It is now estimated that Japan had approximately 450,000
bales of cotton to carry into the marketing season beginning August 1,
as well as a stock of piece goods equivalent to 650,000 to 700,000
bales. It is also estimated thet an export trade in cotton goods
equivalent to 900,000 bales of cotton has been lost. The prewar
consumption of cotton in Japan (1933-37) averaged about 3,500,000
bales per year of which about 50 percent was used in the manufacture
of export goods. In the last year or two Japanese consumption of
cotton for domestic use has been running at the rate of only about
600,000 bales. Consequently, taking into account the enforced
curtailment in domestic consumption of cotton goods in Japan it is
believed that, by using up most of its available stocks and importing
some 300,000 or more bales of cotton from China, that country could
get along without any appreciable imports from sources of supply other
than China for something more than two years. On the other hand, it
is not to be supposed that Japan would wish so nearly to exhaust
supplies of raw cotton or thet Japan would not continue to buy cotton,
possibly even to enlarge stocks, if it were possible to do so.
7. - On the basis of the foregoing facts and considerations
the following conclusions are presented:
(a) that practically the entire "free" supply of
cotton in the world is in Latin America and that the acquisi-
tion of this quantity would cost in the neighborhood of
120 million dollars.

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.99)
一4
(b) that the acquisition of this supply of cotton
by the United States and the United Kingdom would effectively
forestall any significant future manufacture in Japan of
cotton goods for export and would meke necessary continued
severe curtailment of production of cotton goods for domestic
consumption but it would not be an additional blow of
significant force to the general Japanese economy.
(c) that the acquisition of the "free" supply of
Latin American cotton would probably have more significance
in the sense of assisting an industry of primary importance
in at least two of these countries, Brazil and Peru, and at
the same time would virtually eliminate commercial intercourse
between Japan and these countries.
(d) that, in view of the world supply indicated
in paragraph number 1, any program of buying that might be
decided upon should be coupled with commitments to reduce,
or for the smaller countries, not to expand cotton production.

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.99)
Table I
COTTON: Estimated exportable surpluses in the world
(Thousands of bales of 478 pounds net)
:Estimated or:
Probable
Assumed Estimated
Estimated
Country
reported
crop
total
domestic
:exportable surplus
stock
::Including:
Crop
1941-42
supply
takings
:Aug. 1, 1941
::carryover:
only
8
United States
12,203
11,061
23,264:
10,000
13,264
1,061
British Empire and
protected countries:
India
1,700
4,500
6,200:
3,000
3,200
1,500
Burma
4
100
104:
9
95
91
Egypt
1,500
1,800
3,300:
125
3,175
1,675
Anglo Egypt.Sudan.:
170
200
370:
0
370
200
Br. East Africa
100
325
425:
0
425
325
Br. West Africa
0
40
40:
1
39
39
Belgian Congo
0
180
180:
5
175
178
French Eq. Africa.:
0
80
80:
2
78
78
Iraq
0
20
20:
2
18
18
Iran
10
208
218:
115
103
93
Afghanistan
0
50
50:
10
40
40
Br. West Indies
0
5
5:
0
5
5
Syria & Lebanon
0
30
30:
5
25
25
Total British
3,484
7,538
11,022
3,274
7,748
4,264
Latin America
Pacific Coast-
Peru
110
340
450:
40
410
300
Salvador
5
5
10:
5
5
0
Nicaragua
0
5:
0
5
5
Guatemala
0
4
4:
0
4
4
Mexico
100
333
433:
275
158
58
Atlantic Coast-
Brazil
1,553
2,400
3,953:
600
3,353
1,800
Argentina
30
300
330:
190
140
110
Paraguay
30
40
70:
1
69
39
Haiti
3
17
20:
0
20
17
Total Latin
America
1,831
3,444
5,275:
1,111
4,164
2,333
Other
Turkey
0
250
250:
115
135
135
Mozambique(Port.)
0
40
40:
0
40
40
Angola (Portugal)
0
15
15:
0
15
15
Total Other
0
305
305
115
190
190
Grand total above
17,518
22,348
39,866:
14,500
25,366
7,848

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.90)
10-16-41
TKF:PAK
BRITISH EBASSY
OFFICE OF THE 
INTERNATIONAL ECONUN
WASHINGTON, D. C.
OCT 1 6 1941
PARTMENT OF STATE
Octeber 14, 1941
aDOEIVED
0120 1941
DIVISION OF De
Xdchincloss,
He have reesived the u
i ormation
1+
894.24/1785
v yot row be
es t or c a's
894.24
M Ade
NOV 6 - 1941
11
PS
/SMS

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.95)
Ia reply refor to
Ostober 16, 1941.
My dear Dr. Fitsgerald:
I enolese a copy of a letter, dated Ostober 14, l94l,
from the Britiah Eabassy which may interest you in ite
imformation coneerning eastor oil 1n Brasil.
Sineerely yours,
334.2
894.24
Thomas K. Finlotler
Special Assistant to the Seeretary im
1785
Enelesure:
Frem British Embassy,
Washington, Ostober 14,
1941.
Br. D. A. rissgerald,
PS/SMS
Department of Agriculture,
Wamhimgton, D. C.
1 FI PAE

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECEIVED
AmMNTSECRETARY
941 00 27 AM 11 53
October 18, 1941.
MEMORANDUM FOR MRNCOLLADO
PELDS
Referring further to the requests which Mr. Milo
Perkins made yesterday at the meeting of the alternates
on the Economic Defense Board, my notes show the follow-
894.24/1786
ing:
1. Mr. Perkins asked for a memorandum showing the
actual movements of cotton from any of the American
Republics to Japan and to China, stated separately, during
the last sixty days. You and I agreed that these figures
should be made up from the first of August.
I should like to get, if possible, the same
information on the movements of cotton from the United
States to the same destinations and during the same period.
2. Mr. Perkins also asked for a memorandum on the
exact status of the immobilized shipping in the other
American Republics, stating the particular ships which
had been put into service and into what services and the
ships with their locations which were still idle. I told
him that you could give him this information and he sa
C
that Mr. Monroe Oppenheimer would get in touch with you
HLND
2
S
Mr. Perkins
/SMS

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.95)
-2 -
Mr. Perkins also asked whether, in our opinion,
it would tend to speed up the putting of these ships
into service if the Department of State sent a man to
South America to deal especially with this matter.
3. He asked for any information which we had as to
whether gasoline exported from this country to Spain
was finding its way to Germany. I am attaching a copy
of a memorandum on this subject to Mr. Bunn.
76
Dean Acheson.
A-A:DA/ATJ

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.98)
October 18, 1941
MEMORANDUM TO MR. BUNN
Yesterday at the meeting of the alternates on the
Economic Defense Board, Mr. Milo Perkins referred to a
report which came from the Treasury some time ago that
gasoline which we were exporting to Spain was being re-
exported to Germany. I told him that Mr. Long had made
some inquiries into this report and found that it orig1-
nated with a sailor on one of the Spanish ships. We did
not believe that sufficiont reliance could be put on the
report to warrant changing the present policy towards
Spain which had the strong support of the British Govern-
mont.
This led to some general inquiries by Mr. Perkins
as to our policy towards Spain. I told him that some
time ago I had asked for a resurvey of the Spanish policy
with a view toward making as complete a statement as
possible for the use of Mr. Yost and the Office of Export
Control. I be 1eve that a Committee composed of
Mr. Stinebower, Mr. Reinstein, and Mr. George from the
European Division went to work on this subject. Has any
written statement of policy eventuated? If so, could I
see it? If not, could we press forward with the watter?
Dean Achesom
A-A:DA:ATJ

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.89)
A-sistant Socrotary3
OCT 2 - 1941
016
8/19/41
41
W.T.
MR. ACHESON
British Embassy
Washington, D.C.
By Safe Hand
lst October, 1941
S
OFFICE OF THE
HF
INTERNATIONAL
ixR
Dear heinstein,
0C111
Further to my letter of
DEPARTME
todays date on Peruvian and Brazilian cotton
our Statistical Department have just produced
similar figure: for China and Manchukuo.
894.24/1787
894.24
I thought you might be interested
to have a cony.
0.
J.
Yours sincerely,
W
22
2
John S. Dent
in
EVISR UN PO
PS/PL
S
FILED
Mr. J. Reinstein,
Depertment of State,
Washington, D.C.
(!

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.93)
October e, 1941
My dear Mr. Dent:
894.24/1787
I wish to moknowledge with thanks your letter of
Ootober 1 enclosing statistios on Peruvian and
Brasilian ootton.
Sinoerely yours,
J. J. Reinstein
PS/PLS
the sisge
8.E.
inal
Mr. Johm S. Dent,
British Eabassy,
Washington, D. C.
A-A:JJR:MFA

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.76)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
nov.18741
161
l.tha.2
11.1
110

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ADVISER ON POLITICAL RELATIONS
MEMORANDUM
November 18, 1941
Mr. Acheson:
The Secretary:
In view of the present status of
the general Mexican negotiations and the
probability that there will be some
definition regardin them within the
next two or three days, it is suggested
that it would be desirable to defer the
dispatch of this telegram. If this
Government decides to go forward with
the agreements tht have been worked out
it 1s my belief that the Mexican Govern-
ment wiil defer to the request contained
in the attached telegram. It would seem
preferable, therefore, to await the out-
come of the present negotiations.
DEPAHTMENT 
Laurence Durran
PA/LD:CW

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.90)
LIVISION OF
NOV 12 1931
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
F
THE AMEHICAN REPUBLICS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FE
NEV
FromMexico City
This telegram must bE
closely parephrased bE-
Dated November 10, 1941
fore bEing communicated
to anyonE. (br)
Rec'd 11:20 p.m.
nsl to mex.
Secretary of StetE,
Ra.btw-by
EO
41
11-13.×1 0
Washington.
5..511-180
11-17
1652.
NOV
614, November 10, 6 p.m.
Algodo Nera Figueroa, a Mexicen company 1s plan-
ning on Exporting from 10,000 to 20,000 balEs of
cotton to Japan. Officinls of thE company asked the
094.24/
894.24
opinion of the Embassy concerning the propoged Exnor-
tation and ateted thct the Minister of National
Economy is also being interviEwEd on thE subject.
DE
AL
 AGRNTS
E
If thE Depertment views thE proposed Exportetion un-
C
tavorably a word to that Effect to the Foreign linis-
5
1941
ter would probably prevent it. The DEpartment's
instruction is reqursted by tElegram.
MCGURK
4
c
ALC
o! State
H
CUMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
DEC
Mh. ACHESON

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM SENT
Department of State
Washington.
Night letter
November 18,1941
Charge to
9um
ANEMBASSY,
MEXICO, D.F.
C
682
Your No. 614, November 10, 6 p.m.
894.24/1788
Please seek an early opportunity to bring this
proposed transaction to the attention of the Foreign
Minister, explaining that you heve consulted the De-
partment and that while we realize that cotton 1s not
subject to Mexican export control under decree of
July 10 it 1s considered highly desirable that steps be
taken to prevent exportation of cotton to Japan at thie
particular time. You should also point out that such
restriotion would be regarded as a further demonstration
of Mexico's cooperation.
For your own information and for strictly ganfidon-
tiel communication to the Foreign Minister in four
discretion, it may be stated that thie Government ts met
Jong
mopeat not prosently pormitting cotton exportayto Japan
this Tovernmant
and, is loath to see this product reach that country
from other sources. The various Governments whose
economies inolude cotton production have not repeat not
ciroularized
Keotibered by
Saget by aperater
M..
19

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.84)
Waahaogten
-2-
ciroularised in this sense because the Department has
sonsidered it preferable to take up individual cases
as they arise thus avoiding attendant publio and press
disoussion which might be counterproductive.
Please report results of interview by telegram.
Hull
AQ
e9c
094.210298
A.A.-5
ro
PA/LD
RA:GHW/JHW:GSJ
on
goow.
8
NoV 18 1941PM
notphord by-
Sainth bo aporter
M.,
19.

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRITARY
June 7, 1941
Mr. Hiss:
Mr. Acheson would like
you to find out what could
be done to stop such shipments.
Could Maritime Commisslon can-
oel the vessel's charter, if
1t 18 under charter?
R. Carr

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.96)
OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER OF CUSTO
MAY 20 194WEN
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MR. HevBeCK
ADYISER
MAY 22 19
MAY 2 4 1941
TO:
Mr. Joseph C. Green,
Department of Sr
Division of Controls,
Department of State.
FROM: The Commissioner of Customs.
Reference is made to my memorandum of April 15, 1941, out-
lining information concerning petroleum products exported in
wooden barrels.
I have been advised that on May 17, 1941, the Phillips
Petroleum Company filed at the port of New Orleans an export
declaration covering 30514 wooden barrels of lubricating oil.
This oil consigned to Mitsui Bussan Kaisha, Moji, Japan, valued
at $336,418,is to be shipped on the American SS HOWELL LYKES.
W. R. Johnson
qqy.24
PS/EG
DEC 14 1941
FILED
Assistant Secretary
of State
MAY 2 7 1941
RC
Fe4 a 3t
MR. ACHESON

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.82)
MAY 20 1941
208
M. Jeseph C. Green,
Division of Centrels,
Departsent of stete.
FROM: The Commissioner of Gustoms.
Raforenee 1s made to my mamarandun of Apré1 15, 1941, out-
lining informstion comserning petrelous predusts emported in
weedem barrels.
I have been advised that on ay 17, 1942, the Phillipe
deelaratien eevering 30sl4 weeden berrels of labriesting e1l.
This ell conelgaed to Nitael Desesn Kelska, He, dapen, valued
at s336, 41s, is to be shipped em the Amerisen ss somnLL Lxks.
(Signed) W. R. Johnson
17.2 3.29042

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.89)
October 29, 1947
AIR XAIL
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
No. 4341
To the Amerioan Chargé d'Arfaires ad interim,
M6x1oo, D. F.
The Secretary of State informs the Chargé that the
Department has been advised that the S. S. Heivo Maru
whioh departed from Manzanillo September 17, 1941 en
894.24/1709
route to Yokohama oarried 250 liter drums of Snow White
94.24
Petrolatum consigned by A. Z. Phillips. The petrolatum
was allegedly bought n the United States by Petrolecs
Mexicanos and resold 1n Mexico to Phillips.
The Chargé d'Affaires 1s requested to make a
H
disoreet investigatlon of this allegation and to report
the result to the Department by air mail as soon as
possible.
U
(1)
71
G
290
0040
RA:RMH:GSJ 10-2E-41
科ux

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.97)
NDV19 1941
AIR MAIL
EMBASSY OF THETHE MECAN REPUBLICS
Mexico, D. F., November 7, 1941
AIRMAIL
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
Division of
Defense Materials
No.
1F
NOV 22 1941
14184
4
Department of State
wision of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Subject:
Shipment of Snow White
DE1941
Petrolatum to Yokohame
DEC10 1941
Department of State
Distribution
894.24/1790
DEC 15 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
The Honorable
The Secretary
NOV 2 7 1941
Washington.
DIVISION OF EXPORTS
Sir
AND DEFENSE AID
894.6363
I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of the
Department's Strictly Confidential airmail instruction
No. 4341 of October 29, 1941, regarding the reported
shipment of 250 liter drums of Snow White Petrolatum
to Yokohama on the S. S. Heiyo Maru, consigned by A. Z.
Phillips.
A. Z. Phillips placed an order for 500 drums of
petrolatum with some company in the United States, through
P
Petroleos Mexicanos. Petroleos Mexicanos state that the
S
order was considered a purely commercial transaction and
that there was no suspicion that Phillips would try to
BH
reexport the shipment. Phillips name did not appear on
the order placed in the United States, as it was consigned
to Petroleos Mexicanos, and on arrival in Mexico Citywas
delivered to him.
ment was to be reexported, and had the Policia Judicfal
open the car in which the petrolatum arrived. Only one
drum was found in the dar, and trace of the balance of the
shipment was lost.
A study of the manifest of the Heiyo Maru on its
September 18th sailing showed only thet Phillips had
shipped two cases and 150 drums of Bronze Manufacture.
However,

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.91)
-2-
However, there was a shipment of 470 drums of
lubricants by Rosendo Soma to Shanghai, which may con-
tain the petrolatum. It was reported by an agent of
Mr. Gus Jones, F. B. I., that he had seen a shipment of
four hundred two hundred liter drums of Snow White
Petrolatum on the S. S. Heiyo Maru.
Respectfully yours,
Jouaanssare
American Ambassador
In quintuplicate to the Department
863.6
RAG:hpr
3cbuonem17 .K
3  Copy
Oring.
Received W

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.91)
FORÉION SERVICE
13. MEXICO
FILE COPY
NEION SERVICE
dee, D. 7., November 7, 1961
14184
Subjest: Shipmeat ef Smew White
Petrolatum to Yokohame.
8
H
2
DEC 15 1941
4
INDEXED AT
7
RECEIVING DESK
The Honorable
6
The Seeretary of State,
0
Washington.
SFRVICEA
S1r
I have the hemer to acknowledge reseipt or the
Department's Strietly Confidential airmail instruetion
Ne. 434l of Ostober 29, 1941, regarding the reperted
shipmemt of 250 liter drums or Bnow White Petrolatum
te Yokohame on the S. S. Heiyo Mary, consigned by A. Z.
Phillips.
A. L. Phillips placed an order for 500 drums of
petrolatum with some sompany in the United States, threugà
Petrelees Mexicanos. Petroleos Mexieanos state that the
erder was censidered a purely commereial transeetien and
that there was mo suspieiom that Phillips would try to
reexport she shipment. Phillips mame did met appeer en
the erder plased in the United States, as it was eemsigmed
to Petreleos Mexicanos, and em arrival in Mexico City was
delivered to him.
Pesrelees Mexieanos became suspieious that the ship-
ment wae te be reexported, and had the Polisía Jadieial
shipmems was lest.
A study of the manifees er the
Rewever,

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
However, there was a shipment of 470 drums of
lubrieants by Rosendo Soma to Shanghai, whioh may con-
tain the petrolatum. It was reported by an agent of
Mr. Ous Jomes, P. B. I., that he had seen a shipment of
four hundred two hundred liter drums of Snow white
Potrolatum on the S. S. Hoiyo Mary.
Hospeotrully yours,
American Ambassador
In uintuplioate to the epartment
863.6
kAO: npr

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.95)
NOV 18 1949.
EMBASSY OF THE
THE AMLRICAN REPUBLICS
AIRMAIL
Mexico, D. F., November 10, 1941.
14189
No.
Subject:
Shipment of Snow White Petrolatum to Japan
by A. Z. Phillips.
RA
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
Division of
fense Materials
NOV 2 1 1941
partment of State
C
tribation
y
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DE05
1941
Department of State
The Honorable
PARTÉNT OF STATE
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
LOF EXPORTS
DEFENSE AID
894.24/1791
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's
airmail despatch No. 14184 of November 7, 1941, re-
garding the shipment of Snow White Petrolatum to
Japan by A. Z. Phillips, and to transmit a copy of
a message forwarded the Embassy by Attaché Gus
Jones, F. B. I., in which a shipment of petrolatum
is mentioned.
PS/BH
Respectfully yours
F. McGurk
Chargé a'Affaires ad interim
836.6√
5ian 2msonl hor17 NR
Enclosure:
6
Copy of Message.
n
DEC 1 0 1941
6
Carbon copies
RAG: smb
FILED
(In septuplicate to the Department).

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.99)
14189
dated November 10,
re to despatoh No.
from the American Embassy at Mexico City).
Copy of an intercepted message (radiogram) from Mexico
City to Japan furnished by the U. S. Coast Guard:
13 JULY 1941
RE YOURS 12th EXPECTING TWO CARS ELECCOPPER FROM VERACRUZ
WEDNESDAY WILL ADVISE SIXTEENTH IF POSSIBLE TO SHIP SAME ON
SAGAMI MARU STOP CAN OFFER 100O FLASKS MERCURY AT 235 U. S.
DOLLARS TOTAL SHIPMENT BETWEEN NOW AND NEXT MONTH STOP WE CAN
OBTAIN 800O EMPTY DRUMS IMPORTED FROM GUATEMALA AT 235 8000
AND ALSO 1000 4.50 U.S. DOLLARS PER EMPTY DRUM STOP AM
INVESTIGATING POSSIBILITY TO PURCHASE TANKER LOADED WITH
GASOLINE OR CRUDE STOP OUR MISTER PHILLIPS OWNS PERSONALLY
1O00000 BARRELS POZARICA CRUDE NOW IN TANKS AT TUXPAN STOP
LEASE RUSH SETTLEMENT MITSUBISHI BALANCE OF ACCOUNT AS PER
INVOICES ONLY DEDUCTING 90 AND 250 ADVANCES STOP SNOWWHITE
PETROLATUM ARRIVING TAMPICO BY STEAMER MEDINA JULY 31 WILL RESHIP
TO MANZANILLO IMMEDIATELY STOP KINDLY WIRE US THE GROSS VALUE
OF MAILED PURCHASE CONTRACTS OF SHOWA NARUTO SANUKI AND SAKITO
STOP MFRERSTRUST CO INFORMS US THAT SHOWA HAS NOT PAID 134300
YET BECAUSE THEY HAVE NOT GOTTEN THE INVOICES FOR NARUTO SANUKI
AND SAKITO AND HAVE TELEGRAPHED TOKIO FOR INSTRUCTIONS PLEASE
ARRANGE WITH SHOWATOKIO FOR PAYMENT WITHOUT INVOICES SO THAT
SHOWATOKIO ADVISES AGENCY NEWYORK TO EFFECT PAYMENT IMMEDIATELY
134300 AND TO MAIL TO TOKIO ORIGINAL SETS BXL IN ORDER TO
TRANSHIP MERCHANDISE TO SHANGHAI STOP IN ORDER TO EXPEDITE
DELIVERIES WE NEED QUICKLY LARGE AMOUNTS OF CASH ON HAND
REGARDS PHILLIPS

=== Page 466 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
001941
DIVISION OF EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
EN LESISTANT 10
SBORETAGN OF STATE
DIVISTON OF EXPORTS
NOV 1 4 1941
(EMORANDUA
AND DEFENSE AID
Division of
FAB EASTERN AFFAIRS
Ootober 10, 1941.
0CT10
DE
Department of State
The attached letter from Mr. Marvin R. Sohafer, 1s
referred to you since you will undoubtedly wish to answer
question No. 1. It is suggested that the following para-
graphs be included in your reply as an answer to question
No. 2 relating to Soviet-American relations.
"With reference to the second question dealing
with the policy of this Government with respect to
the Soviet Union, there 1s enclosed a copy of a
statement given to the press on June 23, 1941 by
Acting Secretary of State Sumner Welles whioh sets
forth this policy and explains the reason for its
711.61
adoption.  It does not appear that the policy of
aid to forces opposing Hitleriem has any connection
with the merits or demerits of the present regime
EC191941
in Russia."
Eu:EALightner:LIS

=== Page 467 === (confidence 0.95)
THE AMFRICAN REPUBLIOS
EMBASSY OF THE
No.5786
Subject: Japanese-Brazilian Trade.
CONFIDENTIAL
C
Division of
S
2
Defense Materials
NOV 2 4 1941 
GPY~DM
JA
6
Department of State
394.24/1793
or Distritution
894.24
Divistn of
OFFICE OF IF NER N
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
INTERNAIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
1949
FEB - 3 1942 H
Department of State
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
BOARD OF ECONOMIC OPERATIONS
The Honorable
ENECUTIVE SECRETARY
The Secretary of State,
FEB 6-1942
PS/MC S
Washington, D.C.
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose a translation of the
inward and outward freight manifests of the Japanese
FEB y -1
vessel "Toa Marú", which arrived in Rio de Janeiro on
FILED
Confidential File
October 29 and sailed for Japan via Buenos Aires on
November 1, 194l. This was the first Japanese vessel
to call at a Brazilian port singe August l94l
eemeg
Enclosure No. 1, which lists the exports of Brazil-
ian produots to Japan on this vessely rofleots both. the
strength

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
strength and weaknesses of our preclusive purchasing
program in Brazil. It will be noted that no shipments
were made of materials contained in the United States-
Brazil Strategic Materials Agreement, although Japan
previous to June 1l had been a heavy purchaser of many
of these materials, particularly quartz crystal, indus-
trial diamonds and mica. The outward manifest does
reveal, however, that Japan's current purchases in Brazil
are almost entirely of armament materials not included
in our agreement.
The Brazilian authorities have informed me that they
took unusual precautions while the vessel was in port to
prevent materials included in our agreement from being
illegally placed on the ship.
It appears improbable that, in case of hostilities
between Japan and the United States, Japanese vessels would
call at Brazilian ports. It is more likely that Japan
will attempt to obtain Brazilian strategic materials via
original shipments to West Coast ports and transshipment
to Japan at those ports.
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
J6hn F. Simmons,
Counselor of Embassy.
Enclosures (2)
1. Translation outward manifest.
2. Translation inward manifest.
File No. 820

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.92)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despateh No.5786
of November 12, 1941, from American
Embassy, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
EXPORTS FROM BRAZIL ON THE JAPANESE STEAMSHIP
"TOA MARU" WHICH SAILED ON NOVEMBER 1, 1941.
(Agents - Soc. Navegação Osaka do Brasil.)
Quantity
Cargo
Weight
Shippers
Destination
(in kgs.)
5538 bags Quebracho extract
299,050 Florestal Brasileira
Osaka
1800
n
Monazite sand
109,400 Mineração Oldenburg
Pig iron
100,000
n
n
1413
n
Fluor-spar ore
90,000
n
11
n
297
n
Wolfram ore
15,089 Oswaldo Sampaio
n
103
n
Mandioca starch
5,000 Soc.Imp.Exp.Brasil
n
3860
n
Cobalt-ore
174,664 Emp.Brasil Mineração Yokohama
559
n
Graphite
31,489 Casa Bratac Ltd.
n
218
n
Carnauba wax
19,710 Soc.C.Nippo Brasil.
167
11
n
1n
15,167 Hachiya Irmãos
n
54 cases Tantalite
2,980 Casa Bratac Ltd.
n
5
n
Tantalite
300 Mineração Oldenburg
n
100
Tantalite
5,500 Kanji Shirato
200 bags Arabig gum
20,200 Casa Tozan Ltda.
n
125 cases Shoe powder
8,376 Soc.Tec.Auxiliar Ltd.
n
1 case Drugs
12 Kanji Shirato
39 bales Ipecac roots
2,050 Soc.Com.Nippo Brasil.

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.88)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No.5786
of November 12, 1941, from American
Embassy, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
IMPORTS INTO BRAZIL PER JAPANESE STEAMSHIP
"TOA MARU" WHICH ARRIVED IN RIO DE JANEIRO
ON OCTOBER 29, 1941.
(Agents - Soc. Navegação Osaka do Brasil.)
CARGO FROM K O B E
Weight
Consignor
Consignee
uantity
Material
(in kgs)
Mitsub.S.Kaisha
Casa Tozan
2 cases Electric borers
70
n
"
1"
24
n
Motor access.
1,235
n
n
11
n
n
n
608
n
n
"
"
20crates Elec.fans
260
n
"
"
2 cases Elec.goods
154
n
1"
30crates Elec.fans
390
Consulado Brasileiro Cidio Carneiro
28 cases Personal effects 2,068
Cia.Ind.Nitinan Ltd. Casa ratac Ltd.3400
1"
Lead arsenate powder.
n
1"
1"
1"
300 drums
1"
125,696
Brazilian Consulate Manoel Carvalho
19 cases Fereonal effects 1,606
CARGO FROM
TIETSIN
C. Itoh Co.
Guilherme liumitzsch 22 cases Albumen
2,449
n
1"
1"
1"
22
1"
Al bumen
2,434
Lieb.Waelchli
Lucius Heller Co. 44 cases rhubarb roots
3,187
n
0"
1"
16
11
"
1"
1,159
CARGO FROM S H A N G H A I
Lieb.Waelchli
Guido Schwegler .l case Bakelite articles
38
n
n
"
19
Spectacles
34
n
1"
1"
1"
8 cases Lamps (kerosene)
606
n
19
W. Keller
3
Spectacles
166
n
n
1"
1 case
9"
lenses
43
A.C.E.C.Shanghai
Atel.C.E.Charlera 13 cases Elec.material
1,043
Lieb.Waelchli
Raymond Haemel
2
Spectacles
121
10
1 case
19
lenses
17
Union Steamship Co. Krause Co.
7 cases China
1,000
n
"
n
1 case
Wooden articles.
Int. Forwarding
L. Tarchich
1
1"
Silk bows
125
China Gen.Edison
General Electric 28 cases Copper bases
2,029
CARGO FROM
HONGKONG
New England Co.
Oliveira Lencastre l00 bales Cinnamon
5,102
n
n
1"
100
n
10,205
"
n
"
"
100
"
"
5,102
CARGO FROM
SYDNEY
Mitsui B.Kaisha
Hachiya Irmãos
65 bags Mother-of-pearl
5,499
CARGO FROM NAGOYA

=== Page 471 === (confidence 0.85)
- 2 -
CARGO FROM N A G O Y A
Weight
ignor
Consignee
Quantity
Material
(1n kge.)
Itsukawa Porcelain
A. Machado
29
cases
China
2,514
Kab.K.H.Bros.
Hachiya Irmãos
3
Mother-of-p.buttons 231
n
n
1t
9
Celluloid plates 1,076
n
n
n
2
n
Ping-pong balls
220
n
n
n
1
n
1n
n
n
n
12
11
Glass ware
792
n
n
n
26
n
Celluloid toys
1,850
n
2
Toilet articles
124
n
n
n
n
3
n
Bambu baskets
272
n
n
n
139
n
China
13,682
n
n
n
n
119
n
1n
11,893
n
n
n
n
49
n
n
5,128
19
1n
ff
19
19
Celluloid plates 2,124
n
n
18
1n
2,284
n
1n
13
1"
1n
n
1,325
n
n
14
19
1n
n
1,756
n
1n
n
5
n
Mother-of-p.buttons
496
1n
n
n
8
19
Glass articles
461
1n
11
3
11
Ping-pong balls
217
n
11
1
Toilet articles
21
n
11
22
1n
Celluloid toys
1,666
n
11
n
11
196
n
China
19,171
20
Transp.paper
2,080
n
1n
18
21
Celluloid plates 2,558
n
n
n
n
157
19
1"
1n
15,936
n
19
35
11
1
4,046
n
28
1n
2,999
n
n
n
11
12
99
1n
1,365
n
n
Atayde Reis
60
Transp.paper
6,191
n
1n
Hachiya Irmãos
6
11
Woolen yarn
761
CARGO FROM
YOKOHAMA
Kab.K.H.Bros.
Hachiya Irmãos
14 cases Bulbs
427
1n
4
Toys
390
n
11
67
1"
Bulbs
2,236
n
n
7
97
603
Haratetsu Unzo
Japanese Embassy
1
Steel safe
1,360
n
19
11
6
Books
348
Yokohama S.Kaisha
Central Nippo Bras.9
n
Paper articles
613
Mitsub.S.Kaisha
Casa Tozan Ltda. 131 bales Raw silk
8,305
1n
n
1n
19
198 cases Silk yarn
10,378
Sekino Kaisoten
Nakaya de Outa Kamano 27 "
Paper articles
2,122
Mitsub.S.Kaisha
Casa Tozan Ltda. "10 bls. Cherries
2,378
n
1n
n
20
4,735
n
Fujihira Co.
18 cases Paper articles
1,400
Sekino Kaisoten
S. Hase
16
1"
ff
1,389
tn
W. Sugayama
7
1n
11
579
1n
n
-Casa Nakaya Outa &Kawano 4
1n
308
Cia.Ind.Nitinan
Gov.R.J.C.Macabú
26
n
Transformers
8,852
1n
1n
2 drums Oil
375
11
n
1 case Oil
84
n
1n
91 casas Generator
70,620
t
n
n
n
25 pkgs. Regulators
22,690
n
n
n
17 drums oil
3,519
n
n
n
11
i case Oil
81
n
n
n
2 pkgs. Regulators
2,621
n
11
3 drums Electric cable
6,990
Cia.Ind.Nitinan

=== Page 472 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
CARGO FROM Y O K O H A M A (cont.)
Weight
Consignor
Consignee
QuantityMaterial
(1n kga)
Cia.Ind.Nitinan
Gov.R.J.C.Macabú
1 case
011
40
n
1
Copper tubes
163
CARGO FROM VALPARAISO, CHILE
1,600
Cia.Sud.Americana
S.A.Emp.V.Varig
2 cases Motors
vap.
mo

=== Page 473 === (confidence 0.88)
PARTMENT OF STATE
BPECIAL ASSISTANT TO THE SECRETARY
Dec 4
As 70 the ueinfraly
yom memo on 
palch
Monante - Warin
Ton Ecouchic
you beller to Perkims weut our-
Pig Yom Noi wu The apreoweed.
There habe meeu subsiausial exporis
to Japant and & anm preparcing a
menio aboutid
no inon ore qoes
To tapan, in poci the Butish asked
us to leave it oit of The owerall
agreement, so ihat tney coned buy it.
Fluarspar- NoTin The apreewend.
few empris, but I miel propare
a memio-
Woepram - not yet no fho aprooment.
Talegram was seut to sucludo it.
estaer- dillo_

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.91)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SPECIAL ASSISTANT TO THE SECRETARY
Graphlie - This ta the only
shipmant of
grapleite To the Aisl
of which we
have any record-
There was no grephite at all
exporied fian Bragil in 1940,
and nome ith The finst 6 mouths
o9 1941-
Tautalipe - opm recommendation
Loan Agency th a day on so.
Carnanta wart - wrel check
wish mm. DaciA
JWA

=== Page 475 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SPECIAL ASSISTANT TO THE SECRETARY
Division of Defense Materials
November 25, 1941.
ar. Treeblood:
Auchincloss:
We are interested in most of the products
which saled on this boat. Note the monazite
sand also the pig iron. Is pig iron in our
agreement with Brazil? The same question
applies to fluorspar, wolfram, cobalt, and
graphite. Further, this illustrates the
necessity of hurrying up with carnauba wax,
tantalite and ipecac. Has HT any suggestions
as to the drugs, shoe powder, Arabic gum?
7
Wr
DM: FINLETTER: EHS

=== Page 476 === (confidence 0.88)
Im reply refer to
7 894.24/1794
The Becretary of State presente his complimente to
the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury and trans-
mite for appropriate consideration a copy of despatob
no. 1297, November 10, 1941, from the Amer1oan
0
Legation at La Paz, concerning various finanoial trans-
4
aotions in Bolivia by Japanese firws and firms on the
J
Proolaimed List of Certain Blooked Nationals.
7
2
Enclosure:
4
From Legation, La Paz,
no. 1297, November 10,
1941.
DBC
A true cov
ime sgned orte
imsl.
S
out
FF:ASF:MFA
12-4-41
af4
/LMA

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.95)
BY AIR MAIL
LEGATION OF THE
Dirision of
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
La
z, Bolivia, November 10, 1941.
Department of State
No. 1297
6.1941
trman Firms.
Subject: Financial Transactions by Japanese and
Decemb
CONFIDENTIAL.
Jile
LONISION OF
S
FOREIGN FUNDS CONTROL DIVISION
NOV 1 9 1941
ECEVE
Capy to Jre esi.
THE AMERICAN REPUBLICS
894.2471
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
5
DEC 5 - 1941
FOREIGN FUNDS AND FINANCIAL DISION
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
NOV 25 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
for Diatribution
Cable Dreftilt
1942
7-8-42
DEC8
The Honorable
1941
DEPARY
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
JAN 2 3 1942
94
I have the honor to refer toVthe Legation's despatch
No. 1976 of September 8, 1941, with reference to Japanese
payments and collections in Bolivia through Chilean and
Peruvian banks, and to forward for the information of the
Department a copy of a cable addressed to the Banco Central
de Bolivia by the One Hundredth Bank Ltd., Yokohama, instruct-
ing the Banoo Central to remit the proceeds of its collections
for the Yokohama Bank to the Banao Popular del Perú, Lima.
The

=== Page 478 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
The oable follows:
28/10/41
Banoo Central de Bolivia, La Paz.
"Please remit proceeds of all our collections to Banco
Popular del Perú, Lima, by airmail, instructing them
to advise and pay same amount to Banco Italiano Lima,
Perú, for account of Yokohama Specie Bank Ltd., Yokohama.
The One Hundredth Bank Ltd."
Yokohama.
Ih the meantime firms and individuals which have been
included in and recommended for the Proclaimed List of Blocked
Nationals continue from time to time purchasing dollar drafts
to the order of United States banks in payment for merchandise
imported cash against doouments. Three recent cases have
come to the attention of the Legetion.
The first involved a sale by the Banco Central on October
29 of a draft in the amount of $6,273.50 to A. SILES, a "palo
branoo" for Kyllmann Bauer. This draft was made payable to
the Bank of America and National Trust and Savings Association,
San Francisco, and covers the importation of sago and cummin
seed. In this connection, the Department's attention is
respectfully invited to the Legation's telegram No. 295
of October 17, 3 p.m., and its despatch No. 1230 of October
20, 1941, reporting a shipment of cummin seed to A. Siles by
Gerhard and Hooper, San Franoisco. Whether or not this
particular payment covers that transaction is not definitely
known but if not it indioates that Gerhard and Hooper may have
been carrying on business with Siles for some time past.
Interesting also in this regard is in rmation recently obtai ned
by the Legation that on August 8 of this year Kyllmann Bauer
y Cia. itself (it will be remembered that Siles acts as a front
for Kyllmann Bauer) purchased a draft in the amount of $3,648
to cover the importation of cloves and cinnamon from Gerhard and
Hooper.

=== Page 479 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
Hooper. The suspicion that the San Francisoo firm was
aotually aware of the true status of Siles thus seems
considerably strengthened since its shipments to him have
been of exactly the same kind of merohandise formerly
exported directly to Kyllmann Bauer.
The second payment of this kind of which the Legation
has knowledge is a draft dated November 3, 1941, in the
amount of $14.45 payable to the Manufacturers Trust Company,
New York, purchased by Kyllmann Bauer y Cia. from the
Banco Central de Bolivia and covering the importation of hat
samples. The name of the exporter is not known.
The third similar case of a payment to a United States
bank, not quite so recent but perhaps still of interest,
was covered by a draft purchased from the Banco Central
on September 23, 1941, by Juan GUMUCIO who, as reported in
the Legation's despatch No. 1115 of September 22, 1941, is
a front for Kyllmann Bauer. This draft was in the amount
of $5,450.03 and was for automobile tires and tubes. The
exporter of the merohandise is not definitely known but
was probably the Fisk Tire Company, since Kyllmann Bauer
has in the past been the representative for Bolivia of this
line.
Several other instances of dollar payments by blocked
be
nationals to what are believed to/American firms have also
come to the Legation's attention within the past weok. The
details of these transactions follow:
Draft dated August 2, 1941, in the amount of
%508.50; sold by the Banco Central to E. Sohilling
and made payable to George Leuder & Co. to cover
importation of "industrial essences".
Draft dated September 25, 1941, in the amount of
$174.76; sold by the Banoo Central to Juan Elsner & Cia.
and made payable to Simplioity Pattern Co. to cover
importation of patterns.
Draft

=== Page 480 === (confidence 0.96)
- 4 -
Draft dated August 1, 1941, in the amount of
$1,390.38; sold by the Banco Central to Kyllmann
Bauer y Cia. and made payable to E. Mosheim and Co.
to cover importation of linen material.
Whether any of these payments by listed firms indicate
that commeroial relations are being maintained with them by
United States concerns is not known, but the Department
may consider the matter worthy of further investigation.
Respectfully yours,
Allar Dansor
Allan Dawson
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
851.6/610.1
CRB/mw
Original and five copies by airmail.
Copy to Americar Embessy, Lima, Perú.
2

=== Page 481 === (confidence 0.92)
Subjeet: Attempted Shipments of Cemtraband
Motals to Japan
ADivision of
STRIOTLY CONFIDENTIAL
FAR EABTERN AFFAIRS
Department of S
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
Wreakne
91V1S
PM2 55
NOV 211941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECVEO
5
GTMENT
Division of
DEC 4 1941
Defense Materials
894.24/1795
DCE
2
Department of tate
File-J.P.F
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
CONMERCIAL AFFAIRS
Washington.
-DIVISION OF
rtment of State
894.24/1760
Bir:
I have the henor to refer to the Embassy's tele-
ram Ne. 542 ef Octeber 18, 2 p.m., and previous onm
regarding the attempted shipments of contraband metals
to Japan. The infermation contained in the telegrams
as well as that obtained frem the American Consuls in
Manzanille and Tampico is summarized in this despateh.
The Manzanille custemhouse previded the Censulate
Confidential File
DEC 9-1941
statisties regarding the metals im the shipment of twe
FILED
bex cars to that pert. while this was reperted to
1771
the Department in despateh No. 20 er Oeteber 29, 1941,
frem the Manzamille Vice Censul, it is repeated:
Motal
4 Carben copies
dentrored M.R.W.
