894.916 Public Press., Japan, Books, Printing, Publications., July 23, 1946 - December 12, 1946 (File 1551)
ID: 894.916-1551   Pages: 16   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.916-public-press-japan
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
FOREIGN POLICY ASSOCIATION
Incorporated
NATIONAL HEADQUARTERS, 22 EAST 38 STREET, NEW YORK 16
Telephone: Murray Hill 5-5740 Cable Address: Forpolas

July 23, 1946

Mr. John Carter Vincent
Far Eastern Division
Department of State
Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Vincent:

A firm in Tokyo wishes to translate the enclosed booklet into Japanese and publish it there.

We understand that there are no restrictions against the publication of American books in Japan, but we should be glad to have this confirmed. Also, if it is not too much trouble, we hope that some one in the Division can glance over Mr. Hart's booklet to see if there is any objection by the Department of State on grounds of policy.

If there is none, we plan to grant publication rights to the Tokyo firm.

Very sincerely yours,
Walter Wilgus
Walter Wilgus
Editor, Headline Series

WW:nc

894.916/7-2346
894.916/7-2346
8/2/46
522 - 9 1946
FILED

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
AUG 29 1946
2919
894.916/7-2346 CS/HH
894.916/7-2346

In reply refer to
ADO

My dear Mr. Wilgus:

A reply to your letter of July 23, 1946, addressed to Mr. John Carter Vincent, on the question of the publication in Japan of the booklet entitled, "Eclipse of the Rising Sun", has been delayed pending discussions within the Department in regard to this general problem.

For your information, it should be stated that Japanese nationals at the present time are prohibited from entering into any direct business relations with foreign-owned concerns. Accordingly, if you desire to have the booklet published in Japan it would appear necessary to arrange this matter with the Civil Information and Education Section at Tokyo through the Reorientation Branch, Civil Affairs Division of the War Department. Insofar as the broader aspects of reorientation policy are concerned, the Department of State does not perceive any objection to the publication of the booklet.

A copy of your letter together with a copy of the booklet has been sent to the War Department for appropriate action.

Sincerely yours,

Henry P. Leverich
Acting Chief
Division of Occupied Areas

Mr. Walter Wilgus,
Editor, Headline Series,
Foreign Policy Association,
New York 16, New York.

ADO:FASchuler, Jr./jg 8/28/46 OIC JA JK ILI

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.81)
894.916/10-1446
CS/V
894.916/10-1446

PA
DHR

APARTMENT 6-A
29 WASHINGTON SQUARE WEST
NEW YORK 11, N. Y.

October 14, 1946

Dear Mr. Acheson,

Will you please advise me on this?

Should I acknowledge the book when it comes?

Yours very sincerely,

—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
c/o P.R.O., G.H.Q.,
A.P.O. 500,
P.M. San Francisco, Cal.

Tokyo, 6th October, 1946.

Dear Mrs. Roosevelt,

Under separate cover, at the request of Admiral Nomura, I am sending you a copy of the Japanese edition of his book which might be called "A Mission to America".

At the same time he has asked me to convey to you his belated condolences and the expression of his highest regard.

I am sorry to inject myself into this, but you probably understand that direct communication with the Admiral is impossible, and I am writing merely to assure you that any matter you may care to address to me will be passed on to him immediately.

May I presume to add my own best wishes for your continued good health and, if such a thing is entirely possible anywhere at present, happiness?

Yours very sincerely,

Compton Pakenham.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.92)
CA - JA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE UNDER SECRETARY

October 17, 1946

CA - Mr. Ringwalt

Will you please prepare a reply for Mr. Acheson's signature to the attached letter dated October 14, 1946 from Mrs. Roosevelt in regard to the book entitled A Mission to America?

A certified copy of your reply for U would be appreciated.

G. Rillin
Florence Kirlin

Answered 10/24/46
10/28/46
to ADD
DEC 6 - 1946

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.96)
NOV 23 1946

In reply refer to
JA

Dear Mr. Roosevelt:

I have received your note of October 14 in regard to a book by Admiral Nomura entitled A Mission to America, which is being sent to you from Japan by Mr. Compton Pakenham.

As you know, present mail restrictions relative to Japan prevent Admiral Nomura from sending you the book directly. Mr. Pakenham admits in his letter that, in acting as an intermediary, he is circumventing these restrictions, although it seems clear that he is unconscious of any irresponsibility on his part.

The fact that you have written me indicates that you have some doubts as to the propriety of acknowledging receipt of the book when it comes. I may say that I share your doubts and would therefore suggest, in view of the circumstances, that you pay no further attention to the matter.

Sincerely yours,

Acting Secretary

Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt,
29 Washington Square West,
Apartment S-A,
New York 11, New York.

FE:JCVincent:AL
11-21-46

894.916/10-1446
C6/V

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.84)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DEC 28 1946 DIVISION OF FOREIGN SERVICE ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF STATE APR 1 1947
774

MOTION PICTURES DIVISION - (IMP) MAR 18 1947

Department of State

AUG 17 1947
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

RECEIVED DIVISION OF FOREIGN SERVICE ADMINISTRATION
AUG 17 1947

To J6 for their promotion

JAN 19 1947

DIVISION OF JAPANESE AND MORNING DIVISION
RECEIVED
JUN 19 1947

JUN 19 1947

The United States Political Adviser has the honor to transmit five copies of circular No. 17 issued December 5, 1946, by General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, entitled "Admission of Foreign Magazines, Books, Motion Pictures, News and Photograph Services, Et Coteru, and Their Dissemination in Japan". In the enclosure to this circular there are set forth licensing procedures, and regulations covering the importation, distribution, and sale in Japan of the publications and media mentioned.

Enclosures: (indistinctly)

8 Com-2 Eud Circulate only in 1c 1117
712.56 Original and hectograph to Department

8 13

894.916/12-1246

3

3

DEPARTMENT OF STATE RECEIVED
OFFICE OF INTELLIGENCE COLLECTION AND DISSEMINATION

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure to despatch No. 774 dated December 12, 1946, from the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject "Admission of Foreign Magazines, Books, Motion Pictures, News and Photograph Services, U.S. Customs and Their Dissemination in Japan"

NO...2 )

ADMISSION OF FOREIGN MAGAZINES, BOOKS, MOTION PICTURES, NEWS AND PHOTOGRAPH SERVICES, U.S. CITES, AND THEIR DISSEMINATION IN JAPAN

|  Purpose | Paragraph  |
| --- | --- |
|  Commercial Media | 1  |
|  Non-commercial Media | 2  |
|   | 3  |

1. Purpose. The purpose of this circular is to announce regulations for the admission into Japan from foreign countries, including the United States, and the dissemination of magazines, books, motion pictures, news and photograph services, and other media of mass communication.

2. Commercial Media. Commercial magazines, books, including translation and reproduction rights, motion pictures, news and photograph services and other media of mass communication, provided they are not detrimental to the purposes of the Occupation, may be introduced into Japan under license from foreign countries for sale to Japanese nationals, subject to the conditions prescribed below:

a. License applications will be made to General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, through the foreign missions in Japan and the Diplomatic Section (if United States, through the Civil Information and Education Section). Details of licensing procedure and license stipulations are given in Inclosure 1.

b. Whether or not any material to be brought into Japan under license is detrimental to the purposes of the Occupation will be determined by this headquarters.

c. Specific categories of commercial media of mass communication will be governed by the following other conditions, which may be supplemented or altered by this headquarters as circumstances require:

(1) Magazines.

(a) Only such foreign commercial magazines as have been or may be approved for publication in Japan for Allied personnel will be licensed to print editions for sale to the Japanese public, in the original language or Japanese, provided that:

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
(Cir 12)

1. Ten successive back issues of such a magazine, submitted by the license applicant with his application and accompanied by English translations if the original language is not English, demonstrate that the magazine would not be detrimental to the purposes of the Occupation if made available to Japanese readers.

2. The licensed publisher agrees to import all paper required to print the magazine.

(b) Importation of magazines printed abroad for sale to Japanese nationals will be subject to license by this headquarters.

(2) Books.

(a) Foreign publishers will not be licensed to publish books, pamphlets, and similar publications in Japan.

(b) Importation of books printed abroad for sale to the Japanese public will be subject to license by this headquarters.

(c) The sale of translation and reproduction rights will be governed by the stipulation given in Inclosure 2.

(3) Motion Pictures.

(a) The motion picture industry of any nation will be licensed to distribute films in Japan only if it agrees to operate as a single unit without individual representatives of each participating company.

(b) The importation and distribution of motion pictures by a licensee will be governed by the stipulations given in Inclosure 3.

(4) Performance Rights.

(a) Performance rights for foreign theatrical productions and music will be governed by the same stipulations as translation and reproduction rights of books and other copyrighted material, given in Inclosure 2.

2

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
(Cir 12)

(5) News and Photograph Services.

(a) An Allied news service, licensed to operate in Japan, may disseminate news, news photographs and feature material, including comic strips and cartoons but excluding book texts and condensations of book texts.

(b) A licensee may exchange his service, or part of it, for comparable servicing by a Japanese news agency or newspaper without monetary payment but will not, for propagandistic purposes or to compete unfairly against other news service licensees, give his service free of charge to a Japanese news agency or newspaper which patently is unable to reciprocate with a service which is quantitatively or qualitatively equal.

3. Non-commercial Media. Non-commercial media of mass communication, including news, magazines, books, other printed matter, photographs and motion pictures, if helpful in furthering the information and education objectives of the Occupation, may be brought into Japan for dissemination exclusively by this headquarters under stipulations given in Inclosure 3. AG 000.7 (13 Nov 46)CII

BY COMMAND OF GENERAL MACARTHUR:

PAUL J. MUELLER,
Major General, General Staff Corps,
Chief of Staff.

OFFICIAL:

John B. Cooley
JOHN B. COOLEY,
Colonel, AGD,
Adjutant General.

4 Incls
1. License Procedure and Stipulations for Mass Communication Media From Abroad to Be Disseminated Commercially in Japan.
2. Regulations for the Sale in Japan of Translation, Reproduction and Performance Rights to Foreign Copyrighted Materials.
3. Regulations for the Importation, Distribution and Exhibition in Japan of Commercial Motion Pictures of Foreign Origin.
4. Regulations for the Importation, Distribution and Use in Japan of Non-Commercial Media of Mass Communication.

3

=== Page 11 === (confidence 1.00)
LICENSE PROCEDURE AND STIPULATIONS FOR
MASS COMMUNICATION MEDIA FROM ABROAD
TO BE DISSEMINATED COMMERCIALY IN JAPAN

1. An Allied news or photograph service, or magazine publisher, or national group of book publishers and copyright owners (an individual publisher or copyright owner if no national group exists), or national motion picture industry may apply through the mission of its nation in Japan and the Diplomatic Section of this headquarters (if United States, through the Civil Information and Education Section) for a license to engage in business in Japan to further the information and education objectives of the Occupation.

2. The terms of such license shall stipulate that:

a. All contracts must be expressed in Japanese yen, and all payments made in Japanese yen.

b. The yen received in payment shall be used by the licensee for expenditure on only such Japanese goods and services as are clearly essential to his authorized operations in Japan.

c. Such yen may not be used for investment of any kind, including the acquisition of any interest in business enterprises or in real property except for temporary rental of necessary facilities.

d. Such yen shall not be converted into foreign exchange for an indefinite period and are accepted by the licensee entirely at his own risk, with no guarantee as to their value when conversion into foreign exchange becomes possible. Neither the licensee nor his government will press for conversion in advance of restoration of normal Japanese foreign exchange transactions.

e. Such yen shall in no event be transferred to any national, firm or agency other than the licensee for expenditure in Japan.

f. SCAP reserves the right to impose further conditions if circumstances require.

3. When a license has been granted by this headquarters, the licensee will be permitted to enter into contractual relations with Japanese nationals, firms and agencies in the normal business manner.

4. If the licensee desires, he may arrange for his business to be conducted through a Japanese national, firm or agency, but the latter shall acquire thereby none of the privileges of the licensee and shall abide by all the provisions in these regulations.

5. To the licensee shall be granted such facilities as are granted to other private enterprises of Allied nationals or companies authorized by this headquarters to do business in Japan with Japanese nationals.

Inclosure 1

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
# REGULATIONS FOR THE SALE IN JAPAN OF TRANSLATION, REPRODUCTION AND PERFORMANCE RIGHTS TO FOREIGN COPYRIGHTED MATERIALS.

1. National groups of publishers and copyright owners (or individuals if no national group exists) which have been licensed to sell translation, reproduction and performance rights to Japanese nationals will not be permitted for the time being to station representatives in Japan. This headquarters will delegate to a Japanese group the handling of business arrangements regarding such rights and will act as an agency for transmitting necessary correspondence between the Japanese group and the foreign groups concerned.

2. Individual publishers and copyright owners will be permitted to sell translation, reproduction and performance rights to Japanese publishers through those channels only if their country has no national group.

3. Any licensed national group of publishers and copyright owners may recommend specific books to Japanese publishers for publication in translation or the original language if they demonstrably would further the objectives of the Occupation.

4. Through the Mission of the group's nation in Japan and the Foreign Liaison Division of G-2 (if United States, directly to the Civil Information and Education Section), such recommended books will be submitted in two copies (with English translations if the original language is not English).

5. The Civil Information and Education Section, if the books are found to be helpful in furthering the objectives of the Occupation, will see that such books are offered to Japanese publishers for competitive bidding on the translation or reproduction rights. The recommending group may stipulate minimum prices or royalties but will allow the Japanese offer to be determined through competitive bidding. The highest bids will be transmitted to the national group concerned for acceptance or rejection.

6. Applications and offers from Japanese publishers for translation or reproduction rights on non-recommended foreign books likewise will be transmitted to the foreign publisher groups concerned if they are judged to be helpful in furthering the objectives of the Occupation.

7. This headquarters may request foreign publisher groups to offer translation or reproduction rights on specific books which it believes would further the objectives of the Occupation.

8. To discourage dissipation of paper, each book from any one country which does not contribute in a positive manner to furthering the objectives of the Occupation but otherwise is harmless must be matched by a book from the same country which does further the objectives of the Occupation in a positive manner.

Inclosure 2

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
9. When an approved book for which translation or reproduction rights have been arranged is ready for publication, proof sheets, together with a copy of the contract conferring the translation or reproduction rights, will be submitted to censorship for determination of its conformity to the Press Code. The responsibility for such submission rests with the Japanese publisher concerned.

10. Performance rights for copyrighted foreign plays and music will be handled in the same way as book publication rights.

Inclosure 2

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
REGULATIONS FOR THE IMPORTATION,
DISTRIBUTION AND EXHIBITION IN
JAPAN OF COMMERCIAL MOTION
PICTURES OF FOREIGN ORIGIN

1. Commercial motion pictures — defined as entertainment feature films, news reels and all other films for which exhibition charges normally are made — will be introduced into Japan from Allied countries for showing to Japanese audiences only under license.

2. A licensee may bring into Japan in any one year up to the maximum number of films imported from his country in any one year before the war.

3. A licensee must import all raw film required to make prints for use in Japan and shall not have access to Japanese film stocks.

4. For the determination of suitability in furthering the information and education objectives of the Occupation, a positive print (together with an English translation of all titles and dialogue if the language of the film is not English) of each motion picture proposed for exhibition in Japan will be submitted to the Civil Information and Education Section of this headquarters.

5. When a motion picture found suitable by this headquarters has been prepared by the licensee for exhibit, including the superimposing of Japanese titles and subtitles or the dubbing of Japanese voices, it shall be submitted to the Civil Censorship Detachment, Civil Intelligence Section, G-2, this headquarters for determination of its conformity to the Pictorial Censorship Code.

6. This headquarters may suggest the importation of specific motion pictures which in its opinion would further the information and education objectives of the Occupation.

7. Except that they will not be counted under paragraph 2 above, prewar films already in Japan which are taken over by a licensee in behalf of his nation's motion picture industry may be distributed in accordance with these regulations.

8. The licensee will not permit the use of his films outside normal commercial channels, including benefit performances for charity, except with the approval of this headquarters, which will give approval only if convinced that the showing would not affect the commercial interests of other licensees and would have no political implications.

Inclosure 3

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
REGULATIONS FOR THE IMPORTATION, DISTRIBUTION AND USE IN JAPAN OF NON-COMMERCIAL MEDIA OF MASS COMMUNICATION

1. The importation, distribution and use in Japan of all foreign non-commercial news, magazines, books, booklets, photographs, motion pictures, and other instruments of mass communication will be governed by the following regulations.

2. All such material will be distributed and the use made of it supervised by this headquarters exclusively. Except through SCAP channels, no such material may be given, loaned or otherwise distributed to Japanese nationals or agencies, public or private.

3. Any Allied Mission, through the Foreign Liaison Division of G-2, may submit to the Civil Information and Education Section such materials (accompanied by full translations in English if the language of the originals is other than English) which it believes would be useful in furthering the objectives of the Occupation.

4. This headquarters will determine the suitability of the material submitted and the distribution or use to be made of it. Material calculated to further the objectives of an individual government or nation, as distinguished from the objectives of the Occupation, will be eliminated. Material which furthers the objectives of the Occupation will be given the widest possible distribution.

5. When such material is judged useful, the Civil Information and Education Section will inform the Mission of the nation concerned of the quantities required for distribution.

6. This headquarters may request Foreign Missions to make available other material from their countries which would further the objectives of the Occupation.

7. All non-commercial material intended for mass distribution will be submitted to the Civil Censorship Detachment, Civil Intelligence Section, G-2, for determination of its conformity to censorship codes.

Inclosure 4

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.90)
FORM DS-516
5-13-47

|  FILE NUMBER | DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT | CHARGE TO- | DATE OF CHARGE | CLERK'S INITIALS  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  194.9/10/3-2047 | L. Vann | L - Tang | 1/30 | APX  |
|   | Adviser for - L. Vann (gives E. J. S. S.) + 3-3-47 |  |  |   |
|   | P. F. 2-2-7 Let to W. B. 3-3-47 |  |  |   |
|  |   |   |   |   |
|  |   |   |   |   |
|  |   |   |   |   |
