894.5123 Financial Conditions. Budget. Dept. Bond Issues. Loans. Public Securities. Credits., Taxation. Processing Tax. For Treaties, Conventions, Arrangements, Ect., Add Country Number, Using Smaller Number Of Country For **., Japan, In (File 975)
ID: 894.5123-975   Pages: 61   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.5123-financial-conditions-budget-4
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE SOLICITOR
MEMORANDUM
May 20, 1931.
FAD
MAY 201831
muxler:
WM
After disoussing the subjeot of the attached despatoh
with Mr. Dooman, I am inclined to the opinion that the
despatoh might be filed without antion at this time in
894.5123/45
view of Mr. Dooman's statement that the disoussion of the
question at this time is rather academio and that no
direot request for relief has been received from the
insurance companies concerned. If a request should be
made by the insurance companies for assistance it will be
mecessary to obtain more definite information regarding the
action of the Japanese authorities and the basis of thert
opposition to that action by the insurance companies.
JAN 1 91932
PU ED
DOXFXW:EVB:SS

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.94)
WLURITONS OFPICE
AM RECD
EMBASSY OF
TZE
UNITED STATES OF AMERAA
 17, 1931.
No.203.
so
C
Adc/c
5
COM
6
8
Division of
FAG NASTN APNNG
Y1131
AY 12 1931
MB
894.5123/45
6
894.
MAI 22
FILED
1931
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to infurm the Department that the
Embassy has been in negotiation, un fficially, with the
Foreign Office for a period of over a year, regarding
the method employed by the tax authorities to assess the
excess income tax on American insurance companies doing
business in Japan. The salient features of this con-
troversy between the insurance companies and the tax
offioials are as follows:
According to Japanese law, foreign insurance companies
doing business in Japan are required to deposit with the
Japanese

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Japanese Government Japanese currenoy or Japanese national
bonds, to protect the interests of the policy holders
in Japan. In conformity  it. this law, the Home Insurance
Company of New York, nd the Continental Insurance Company
of New York, deposited it.. the Ja unese Government Japunese
bonds which bear a clause exemptin the bonds and the interest
thereon from all forms of taxes.
Article 7 of the Income Tax Law provides that the
method of assessing the income tax on (A) companies vhich
do not have their principal of ice in Japan and (B) companies
vhich have a taxable inc ome and a non-taxable income, shall
be determinea by Imperial Ordinance. accordingly, Article
2 of the Regulations for the Enforcement or the Income Tax
sets forth methods to calculate the capital on which a foreign
company operates in Japan. It should be explained that the
excess income tax varies with the rate of the profit made on
the capital; for example, an income representing 50 per cent
on the capital is liable to a hi her rate than an income
representing a profit of only 1o per cent on the capital.
Article 3 of the same Regulations provides for a method of
separating the taxable income from the non-taxable income
of companies, whether they be foreign or Japanese companies.
The practice of the taxation authorities in fixing the excess
income tax of each of these American insurance companies is
first to determine the capital of the local branch by nulti-
plying the entire capital of the oompany by the ratio between
the premiums taken in by the Japan branch and the total
premiums taken in by the company throughout the v.orld. This
amount is then multiplied by the ratio between the non-taxable
income in Japan and the total income in Japan. The result
of the second formula is, of course, to decrease the capital
of

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.96)
-3-
of the Japan branch and correspondingly to increase the
rate of profit.
The insurance companies have protesteu that the
formulae above described perute to bring about an inuirect
tax on bonds whic are admitteu to be free from taxation.
a me ber of y staff has recently hau conferences
with officials in the Foreign ffice, und in te separtment
of Finance, and it is his opinion that the lethod of
assessing the exce"s income tax is uuthori u by the various
laws and regulatio..s. The insurance companies do not claim
that any discrimination has veen practiced between the and
other roreign or Japunese compunies. I al, therefore, or the
opinion that the abassy is not in a osition to tnuer the
companies furt..er assistance at the present conjuncture.
It appears to me that the companies should be advised, if
they believe the .ethod of tuxation nov in use constitutes
a violation of the engagement on the part of the Japunese
●
Government to exe.ipt the bonds ane the inter st thereon
from taxation, to bring the cuse before that Government
through the usual channels open to those vho have a clai..
against it.
I have outlined only the salient features oi mat is
a very complicated question. If, however, the infor..ation
obtained in this despatch is not sufficient to permit the
Department to form any judgaent in the matter, I shall be
pleased to describe the circumstances in detail.
I

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.95)
-4-
1/.
I venture, in the meantime, to enclose a copy
of a letter which was recently sent to the agent of
the two American companies.
Respectfully yours,
amem Irb
W. Cameron Forbes.
Enclosure:
1. Copy of letter as stated.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.97)
molosure No.
Despatch No. 23
Frow American Embassy
Tokyo.
C O E I.
Tokyo, march z0, locl.
W.W. Glass, Esqui re,
Acting .anuger or Jupan,
The Home Insurunce Jopu-y,
Yuraku Building,
Tokyo.
My dear  r. Glass:
at the sug estion or un orficial at the Foreign
Office, I ent to call yesterday at the Department of
Finance to discuss the question of the e..cess incone
tax imposed on foreign insurance companies. I spent
the entire morning there, and the following is briefly
a summary of the conversation hich I had vith officials
of the Bureau of Taxes, the principal one of these officials
being Mr. Hoshino.
You will remember that in my last letter to the Foreign
Office I put forward three arguments against the forulae
used by the Tokyo Tax Office in calculating your excess
income tax.
1. If it were proper to employ the interest on the
bonds deposited by you, the capital amount of the bonds
should be included in the computation of the working
capital of the Japan branch.
2. As the Department of Finance had admitted that the
deposited bonds were the property of the head office and
not

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
not of the Japan branch, the interest on the bonds
should not be ineluued in the incume of the Japan
branch.
3. The formulae used by the  okyo ax crrice vere not
authorized by articles 2 and 3 of the Regulutions for
the Enforcement of the Inc me Tax Lav.
With regard to the first point, the orficiuls tated
that, under Article & of the Regulations, they could compute
the capital of the Ja an branch by to allin the various
assets which the company hud in Japan, sucin us the principal
anounts of the deposited bonds, cash in hnd, and various
other assets; but the. saiu that this umount ould be so sull
that the insurance conpunies ould have to yu a very lurge
sum in excess income tuxes. It was out of consiueration for
the foreign insurance companies that they had aiopted the
second method authorized by Article 2 of the Regulations, hich
is, as you know, the multiplication of the capital of the entire
company by a ratio between the preliums taken in by the Japan
branch, and the total premiums of the company. They could
choose only between these two methods, and they said that, if
the amount of the deposited bonds was to be included in a
computation of the capital of the Japan branoh, they could
only do it by using the first method.
The argument which we had over the second point, that is
to say the impropriety of using the interest from the deposited
bonds in a caloulation of the income of the Japan branoh because
the bonds were not the property of the Japan branch, revolved
around

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
around the principle which they have alre&dy emphasized,
Which is that the company vould be unable to do business
in Japan, ere it not for the deposited bonds. They insisted
that, regardless or the question of the onership of the bonds,
they represented a purt or . our orking ussets, unu that,
therefore, the interest therefrom should be ineluded in your
income. I may say that they -ppeareu to be adant on this
point, and that I have very liutle hope of persuading them to
make any concescion.
The discussion o the relation betveen a ticles  und 3
of the Regulations, unu the formulae useu by the Tokyo Tax
Office was equally unsatisfuctory. I expunueu to some length
the arguments hich I put Torward in my recent letter to the
Foreign Office, Vhich were, you ill remember, that Article 
provided for the calculation of the capital of the Japan branch
in the light of the total capital of the entire company, and
not by employing the for ula based on rticle  of the sane
Regulation. The officials referred me back to Article 7
of the Income Tax La.. Unfortunately, I have no copy or the
law before me, but ou will finu that article 7 creates two
categories of companies whose incomes are to be computed in
accordance with regulations to be laid down for that purpose.
These two categories of companies are (a) those which do not
have their head orfice or principal place of business, in Japan,
and (b) those whose incones are partly taxable and partly non-
taxable. The officials said that Article 2 of the Regulations
refers directly to companies in the first category, and Article
3

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
3 to companies in the second category. Your company and other
foreign in urance companies operating in Japan rall into both
categories, us their principal place f business is not in
Japan, and they have income hich is partly taxable and purtly
non-taxable.
They explained that, in ac oruance vith the terns of
Article 7, they apply article  or the R gulations for the
purpose of determining your local capital, anu that they
then apply Article 3 to differentiate between the taxable
and non-taxable income.
I then asked how they coulu justify their interpretation
of the words So Shihon in article 2 to mean the total capital
of the company, and in article  to mean the ca ital of the
Japan branch. To this they said that article & obviously
referred to foreign companies, but that Article 3 covered all
companies, whether Japanese or foreign, With non-taxable incomes;
consequently, the Words So Shihon in Article 2 meant the total
capital of the foreign company, while in Article  they me ant
the total capital of Japanese companies, and the capital which
had been determined by Article 2 us the capital of the Japan
branches of the foreign companies.
I think that we have done all we can vithout authority
from Washington to proceed in the matter officially. If there
were any discrimination practiced between the American and British
or Japanese firms, we should have clear grounds for complaining;
but if what the officials told me is true, they are treating
alike all companies, whether Japanese or foreign, which have
non-taxable

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.97)
-5-
non-taxable incomes. We shall, however, re ort the circumstances
of the case to the Department of State, und I shall not fail
to communicate with you vhen t here are further developments.
Very truly yours,
Eygene . Dooman.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.95)
EPARTMENT OF STATE
VISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 21, 1932.
TDr
See Tokyo Embassy's
despatoh No. 298 of August 14,
1931, and Consulate General's
despatch No. 236 of August 17,
1931, with which FE and Le
agree under present conditions.
FE
RSM: EJL
n.ml

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.95)
IN
FE
EMBASSYQF THE
9
m
8Tokyo
ugust 14, 1931.
No. 298.
COM.
LEGAL ADVISER
8c
SE4 1931
AUG 31 31
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TREATY DIVISION
FARSTE AFFAIRS
1931
JAN 28 1932
MB
 Sta
DEPARTMENT OF STATÉ
894.5123/46
Office of Frennemic Adviser
DWAN 23 1932
CEPAR!MENI OF STATE
AN 8 91932
The Honorable
FLLED
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to Despatch No. 1042,
of July 23, 1931, from the Consul at Kobe in regard
to the income taxes levied on American juridical
persons doing business in Japan. Mr. Dickover is of
the opinion that the law discriminates against the
Amerioan firms by assessing a higher rate of tax on
concerns who have not their principal place of business
in this country. He believes that, to some extent, at
least,

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
least, a case of disorimination might be made out
under the Treaty of 19ll, or that the United States
Government is the loser because the amount of tax
paid by branches in Japan is allowed as a deduction
in income tax payments in the United States.
I have discussed the matter carefully with Mr.
Dickover; the Commercial Attaché, Mr. Butts; and the
1/. Consul General, Mr. Garrels. A copy of Mr. Butts's
letter on the subject is enclosed. Both Mr. Dickover's
despatoh and Mr. Butts's letter are well reasoned and
deserving of study. I believe, however, that a case
of discrimination would be difficult to establish in
law, while in actual practice, as pointed out by the
Commercial Attaché, the American firms do not appear
to suffer.
Mr. Dickover's contention that the principal suf-
ferer is the United States Treasury brings up a dif-
ferent phase of the question. My own belief is that
the amount involved would be relatively small.
Irrespective of the amount involved, unless it should
be very large, I do not believe it would be worth
while to make an international issue of the question.
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
Ebin taild
Edwin L. Neville,
Enclosure:
Counselor of Embassy.
1. As stated.
Embassy File No. 851.2
ELN/hln

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No.
Dospatoh No.29
on American Embassy
C O E X
Tokyo.
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF SOMMERCE
Bureau of Foreign and Domestio Commerce
Office of Commercial
TOKYO, August 7, 1931.
Attaché
American Embassy
Tokyo
Mr. Edwin L. Neville,
Counsellor of Embassy,
Tokyo.
Dear Mr. Neville:-
Subjeot: Japanese Income Tax Law
I am returning the report of consul Dickover upon
"Apparent Violation of Treaty Rights in the Japanese
Income Tax Law". Mr. Dickover's views are well
presented and I am grateful to him for the copy of the
report sent me.
Mr.Dickover approaches the subject of Japanese
taxation in such a manner as to indicate that the
present method of tax assessment may result in loss
of revenue to the merican Government.
It is pointed out by r. Dickover that merican
corporations operating in Japan have not protested
the Japanese tax rate of l0% as discriminatory or un-
duly burdensome. This may be due to the possibility
suggested by r. Dickover, namely - that such American
corporations are "in the great majority of cases able
to obtain credit against its American income tax to
the full extent of the income tax paid to the Japanese
government".
There is little possibility of securing concrete
cases to illustrate the actual results in dollars and
cents of the two tax systems now in vogue for domestic
and foreign corporations. Capital struoture and ac-
counting methods are so divergent as to preclude an
accurate conclusion. However, simply as an indication
of the working results, I have prepared two theoretical
statements.
One statement covers the theoretical operation of
a Japanese corporation, the entire capital stock of
which is owned by residents of the United States of
America; the other of a branch of an American corpora-
tion. It is assumed that each company has the same
capital, the Japanese corporation having a paidup capital
of 1,oóo,Ooo and the American branch an established
capital of 1,000,000 for tax purposes in accordance with
the Japanese income tax law.
The methods by whioh the capital of a foreign
corporation branch is determined are set forth in Article

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2-
2 of the Regulations for the Enforoement of the Income
Tax Law, which reads as follows:
The amount of capital constituting the
basis of calculation of the excess income of a
juridical person which has neither a head office
nor a prinoipal place of business in the locality
in which the Inoome Tax Law is in force, shall be
determined by multiplying the total amount of
capital by the ratio of the value of the assets in
the looality in which the Inoome Tax Law is in
force to the value of the total assets.
If in the case of the foregoing paragraph, it
is i proper (inappropriate) to follow the proportion
between the values of assets, calculation shall be
made by the proportion between receipts or incomes
or by some other suitable method".
It will be observed that this article indicates the
method for determining capital for the calculation of
excess income. The capital does not enter into the
amount of tax unless the net income for dividend purposes
is in excess of l0%. It would not, the refore, be neces-
sary to determine the capital of a branch of a foreign
company unless there was reason to believe that the
profits indicated that the amount represented more than
io% of the oap ital necessary to conduct the business.
It is further presumed that each company operates
for a definite period of ten years, and that each has
uniform profit of ¥50,000 each year, or the equivalent
of 5% after the payment of all operating expenses and
depreciation, but before allotments for reserves and
business taxes.
American Corporation Operating as a Branch in Japan
Determined capital basis for
tax purposes
¥1,000,000.00
Profit (After expenses and
depreoiation but before re-
serves & income & business
tax)
¥50,000.00
National Income Tax 10%
5,000.00
Municipal Income Tax (Kobe),
38% of Nat'l. Inoome Tax
1,900.00
National Business Profit Taxes
(3.6% of profits)
1,800.00
Munioipal Business Profit Taxes
(Kobe) 123% of Nat'l. Business
Profit Tax
2,214.00 10,914.00
Net available for dividends
. 39,086.00
There are no organization or liquidation fees, and
since it is not necessary to set up reserves, the entire
net profit can be remitted each year to the American
shareholders. No tar is assessed on dividend payments
to non-residents. Therefore, the theoretical net earnings
for the ten year period would be 390,860.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
Japanese Corporation
Paid up capital
¥1,000,000.00
Profit (after expenses and
depreciation but before
reserves and inoome and
business tax)
¥50,000.00
Legal Reserve. (5% of profits
before dividends permitted)
2,500.00
National Income Tax, 5%
2,500.00
Municipal Income Tax (Kobe)
38% of National Income
Tax
950.00
National Business Profit Tax.
3.6% of Profits
1,800.00
Municipal Business Profit
Tax 123% of Nat'1 Busi-
ness Profit Tax
2,214.00
Annual write off organization
Fee. (10% of ¥5,000.00)
500.00
10,464.00
(Organization Fee 5% of paid
up capital)
Net available for dividends
¥39,536.00
Tax 7 1/2 % on dividends to
foreign shareholders
2,965.20
Actual remittance to
American shareholders
¥36,570.80
Presuming the business was closed at the end of ten
years, the legal reserve of 25,000 then accumulated would
be distributed to shareholders after the deduction of the
5% liquidation tax. The net amount available for annual
dividends for nine years would be ¥36,570.80. In the
tenth year a oharge of ¥1,250 would be set up for
liquidation tax and v25,Oóo, the legal reserve fund, would
be distributed. The net payment in the tenth year would
total ¥60,320.80.
Therefore, the net return of profits to the American
shareholders for the ten year period would amount to
¥389,458.00.
It is observed that in terms of financial rewards for
the ten year period that the form of organization makes
little difference, the aggregate variation being only
¥1,402, or an annual average of Xl40, or .0l4% on paid up
capital. If the earnings were doubled and profits were
loo,ooo annually, the gross difference in earnings would
be only X1,821, or .Ol8%. Exaotly the same result would
be obtained if the companies operated twenty years instead
of ten years. For example - if the two companies operated
for twenty years with a net annual profit of ¥50,000, the
difference at the end of the period would be only 1,82l.
The surplus is in favor of the Japanese corporation but
it is so small that it would not of itself influence the
nationality of the company. No American company, so far
as I know, has ever been organized as a Japanese corporation
for the sole purpose of seouring favorable tax treatment.
The faot is that suoh a company is subjeot to considerable

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
more annoyance by the Japanese tax ofricials. It may
be considered, in view of the fact that only two representa-
tive American institutions continue to operate as American
corporations, one of which is a banking institution which
is undoubtedly influenced by national policies which would
not apply to an individual venture, that the Japanese cor-
poration has advantages other than tax features, which are
attractive.
I believe that if a canvas was made of the merican
companies which have incorporated under Japanese laws,
that it would be found that the Japanese company enjoys
privileges not secured by the foreign corporation, al-
though the laws applicable may be the same.
Generally speaking, the Japunese company is treated
more sympathetically in the courts, it is easier to obtain
patent rights and in cases of infringements the heavier
burden is always on the foreign company. It has also been
brought very forcibly to our attention in recent months
that the campaign for the purchase of home made goods has
automatical ly placed the merican owned Japanese corpora-
tions in a more favorable position than the American
branch. The reason may be psychological but the results
are shown in dollars nd cents business.
On the othe hand the Japunese company must prove its
capital, file its articles of association with the courts
of the cities in which it does business, record changes
in articles, dealers, etc., subject to pressure for
Japanese participation and management and even risk the
commandeering of its business in time of war.
The foreign corporation, to the contrary, need not
prove absolutely its capital, if for the sake of avoiding
income taxes it is desirable to declare a capital higher
than might be justly warranted. For example - an American
company might submit as its capital its debit balance to
the head office. Debit balances might greatly exceed the
paid up capital required for the amount of business
actually transacted, and if such debit balances were ac-
cepted by the Japanese tax offioer the result would be a
reduction in income tax payments.
The foreign company need not file its articles of
association and its business may not be commandeered,
provided of course, the country in which its head office
is located is neutral.
I realize that this letter has little or no bearing
on the subject of Mr. Diokover's dispatch. It may help
to explain why American companies may prefer to incor-
porate in Japan or to operate in this country as a branch
of the head office. It does indicate that, unless prac-
tices whioh some might call questionable, are resorted to
in determining the amount of working capital of a branch,
that the tax question does not enter into the determina-
tion of the nationality of the company in Japan.
It is my opinion that a change in the Japanese law
whioh would place the American company operating in Japan

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
on the same basis as a Japanese corporation as regards
tax payments, would have little influenoe in determining
the nationality of the corporation. Furthermore,
although my theoretical statements would undoubtedly be
criticized by accountants, they do unmistakably indicate
that the nationality of the company would influence in
only a slight degree the tax returns to the American
government.
The Japanese tax laws may be in contravention of
the treaty rights quoted by Mr. Dickover. However, I
feel that the actual operation of companies under the
present Japanese tax laws result in substantially the
same returns to eaoh of the governments concerned as
would be the case if the law were uniform for both
foreign and domestic corporations.
Yours very truly,
(SIGNED) H. . BUTTS
Halleck A. Butts,
commercial Attache.
HAB:O

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.93)
Tokyo, Agust 1, 1951.
No. 298.
The Honorable
The eoretory of state,
ashinton.
31r:
I have the honor to  fer to Jes atah No. l042,
of July 23, 19ul, from the Consul at Kobe in regurd
to the incoms taxes levied on merioan juridieal
preons do!ng business in Jupan. . lokover is of
the opinion that the law disuriminates guinat the
Ameriean firms by assessing a higher rate of tux on
cemcerme whe have mot their prineipal pleeu of business
in this eountsy. Me believes that, to sons extent, at
loust,

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.85)
- 2 -
least, a oase of diseriminetion might be made out
under the Treaty of l9ll, or that he mited  t tes
Governvent is the lomer beenuse the
aont of tx
p td by brunohes in Ju an 1s Llowed us  de duotion
in inoome tax paymonts in the mit d t tos.
I have almouased the matter our ully it r.
Aokover; the Oow eroi 1 tt ohé,
t
1/. Conoul General, r. Jur la.
letter on the su joot 1s onolosed.
Both
r.okover's
despatoh nd r. But a's lette1l
pesoned nd
doserving of study. I believe, howv . that ouse
or diseriminatiun sould be irfloul o st blis in
law, hile in notuel pruotloo, s point wut by the
Comamroial ttuché, the
riofitpor
so sufrer.
r. Mekover's contention that  prinoipel suf-
ferer is the United 3tates Treasury bri s up  dif-
feront phese or the nention.  ow b-liof is that
the mount iavolved would b relativ ly waall.
Irre peetive or the mount 1 volved, unless it snould
be very large, I do mot bellove it ould be worth
while to maks an intermational issue of the uestion.
Respeotfully yours,
For the abassador!
Edwin L. Noville,
Enelesare!
Counselor or mbassy
L  stated.
Babeemy 1le No. 061.
ELK/RS
A true copy of
the signed origi-
=SPeW

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.93)
Enclosure No.
295
Despatch No.
From Amertcan Embasv
GQEX
UNITED ST TED DEP TM NT OF OEROE
Bureau of Foroign and Dowstie Comeroe
Office of Commreial
TOKYO, ugust 7, 1931.
Attaché
Amerioan mbassy
Tokyo
r. awin L. Neville,
Counsellor of mbasay.
Tokyo.
ear Ar. Nevi.
Jubleet Jap nes Inoome Ta: Law
I am returning the re ort of conaul  ckover upon
"Apparent violation of Treaty ights in the Japanese
Inoome Tax Law". Mr. Diokover's views are well
presented and I am gratef 1 to hi for the copy of the
report sent me.
Mr.iekover approaohes the sub ot of Japanese
taxation in such  manner as to indioate thet the
present method of tax ssessment may result in 1 ss
of revenue to the merioun Government.
It is pointed out by r. ickover thut merioan
corporations operating in Japan have not protested
the Japanese t x rate of 1o as dimcri l atory or un-
duly burdensomm. This may be due to the ossibility
sugpested by r. Ackover, numely - that suoh meriean
corporations are "in the great mejority of oases able
to obtain eredit ageinst its merloun inoome tax to
the full extent of the inoome tes paid to the Jap nese
government".
There is little possibility of securing concrete
cases to illustrate the actual results in dollams and
cente o the two tax ayatems now in vogue for donestio
and foreign corporations. apital struoture nd uo-
counting mthods are so divergent as to preolude an
aceurate conelusion. Rowever, simply as en indivation
of the working results, I have preparod two theorstieal
statements.
One statement covers the theoretioal operation of
a Japanese corporation, the entire capital stook of
whieh is owned by residents of the United states of
Ameriee! the ether of a braneh of an Ameriean eorpore-
siem. It is aaswaed that eech company has the sume
eapétal, she Japanese sorporation having paidup capital
espital ef 1,000,000 for tax purposes in accordanee with
the Japanese ineeme tax law.
the methede ty whieh the eup ital of a foreien
cerperatien bsrensh is determined sre set forth in Artiele

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.94)
- 2 -
2 of the Regulatione for the nforoement of the Income
Tx Law, whioh reads s follows:
"The amount of capitul co stituting the
basis of saloulation of the e oess income of a
juridieal person whioh has neither a head office
nor a prinoipal place of business in the locality
in which the Inocme Tax Law 1s 1n foroe, shall be
determined by multiplying the total amount of
capital by the ratio of the v lue of the asmets in
the loeality 1n whion the Inoome Tux Law is in
foroe to the valuo of the total ssets.
If in the oase of the lorogoing paragraph, it
1s 1 proper (1nappropriate) to follow the proportion
between the velues of tssets, oulculation shall be
made by th propertion between receipts o inoomes
or by some other suitable method".
It will be observed that this rtiol indicatos the
mothod for determining oapital for the ouloulation of
exeess inoome. The capital do s not enter into the
amount of tex u ess the net 1noome for dividend purposes
1s in excess or 10%. It ould not, the refore, be neces-
sary to determine the cu ital of branoh of e foreign
oompany unless there was reeson to believe that the
profits indiouted that the aount represonted more thun
10% of the oap 1tal necessary to conduot he business.
It is further presumed that sach company operates
for a definite period of ten years,  nd thet eaeh has
uniform profit or 5o, oo0 o ch year, or the equivalent
of 5% arter the payment of all operuting expenses nd
depreciation, but before llotments for reserves and
business taxeo.
Amerioan Corporation Uperuting us a Branoh in Japan
Determined oapital basis for
tax purposes
¥1,000,000.00
Profit (After expenses and
depreciation but before re-
serves & ineoo & business
sax)
¥50,000.00
Mational Income Tax 10%
6,000.00
Manieipal Inoome Tax (Kobe),
s0% of Nat'l. Income Tax
1,900.00
National Business Profit Taxes
(3.6% of profitm)
1,800.00
Manieipal Business Profit Taxes
(Kebe) las% of Nat'1. Business
2.8200020.21000
Profit Tax
Met evailable for dividamds. ..
. 280,006.00
There are me ergamimation or liquidation fees, and
muid bo 8000,0s0.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.94)
- 3 -
Japangge Corporation
Paid up capital
n,000,000.00
Profit (after expenses and
depr ciation but before
reserves and inoome and
business tax)
¥B0,000.00
Legal Reserve. (5% of profits
before dividonds permitted,
2,500.00
National Inoome Tax, 5%
,500.00
unioipal Inoome Tax (Kobe)
30% of National Inoome
Tax
950.00
National Busi ess rofit T.x.
3.6% of rof1ts
1,800.00
Munieipal Business rofit
Tax 123 of Nat'1 Busi-
ness Profit Tax
2,214.00
nnual write off orgnication
Foe. (10 of 5,000.00)
000.00
10.404.00
(Organtzatlon Fee 5 of paid
up cap1tal)
Net available for dividends
¥39,536.00
Tax 7 1/2  on dividends to
foreign shareholders
2.965.20
stual remittanoe to
Ammrioan shareholders
¥56,570.80
Pres min th business was el sed t the end or ten
years, th legal reserve of 25, 000 then coumulated would
be distributed to ah reholders fter the deduotion of the
5% liquidation tex. The n t amount available for annual
dividends for nine years would be 36,570.80. In the
tonth year a oharge of 1,zs0 would be set up for
liquidation tax and 25,O00, the legal reserve fund, would
be distributed. The net payment in the tonth year would
total ¥60,320.80.
Therefore, the net return of profits to the Amerioun
shareholdere for the ten yoar period would umount to
¥389,458.00.
It is observed that in terms of fi anoial rewards for
the ten year period that the form or organizati on makes
little differenee, the aggregate variation being only
*1,40z, or an unnual average of l40, or .0l4% on paid up
capital. If the ourmings were doubled and prorits were
*100,000 annually, the gross differenee in earninge would
be omly Bl, asl, or .Oles. Emaotly the same result would
be obtained ir the cempaaies operated twenty years instead
ef ten years. Fer example - if the two eompanies operated
for twenty years with a net ammuel prerit of wo0, 0o0, the
differemse at the end of the period would be enly X,aal.
The surplus la in faver of the Japanese corporation but

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.95)
more annoyance by the Japunome tax offioials. It may
be considered, in view of the fact that only two representa-
tive Ameriean institutions contimue to operate as Ameriean
corperations, one of whioh is a banking institution which
1s undoubtodly Influenoed by national policies whioh would
not apply to an individual Venture, that the Japanese cor-
poration has advanta es other than tax feutures, whioh are
attraotive.
I believe thut if e canvas was made of the morioun
companies whioh have inoorporated under Japanes laws,
that 1t would be found that the Japanese oompuny enjoys
priv leges not seoured by th foreign co porution, al-
though the laws pplieabl y be t same.
Generally speaking, the Jap lese conny is treated
more sympathetioally in the courts, i is easier to obtain
patent rights und in ouses of i fri goments th- heavier
burden 1s alwaye on tho forein company. it has also been
brou ht very foroibly to our ttention in reoent monthe
that the oampaign for the purohase of home made goods has
automatieal ly placed the merioun owned Japanese oorpore-
tions in a more favoruble osition than the merioan
brunoh. The reuson my be payehologie l but the results
are shown in dollars d cent business.
n the other hand the Jap nese oompuny must prove 1ts
oapital, file its articles of associution with the oourts
of th oities in whioh it do s buslnees, record ohunges
in artieles, dealere, eto., subj ot to pressure for
Japunose partioipation and management and ven riek the
commandeering of its business in time of war.
The foreign corporation, to the oontrary, noed n t
prove absolutely its eapital, if for the make of avoiding
Incom taxes it is desiruble to declare  oapital higher
than might be justly warranted. For exumple - an merioan
company might subm t  1ts capital its debit balanoe to
the head ofrioe. Debit balances might greatly exceed the
paid up oupital reguired for the amount of business
aotually transacted, nd if such debit bal. noes were ao-
cepted by the Japanese tax offioor the result would be a
reduotion in ineom tax payments.
The foreign company need not file 1ts artioles of
association and its buminese may not be commandeered,
provided of course, the country in whioh its head ofricu
is located is neutrul.
I realize that this letter has little or no bearing
on the subjeet of Mr. Diekover's dispatoh. It may help
to explain why Amerisam compamies may prefor to ineor-
porate in Japan or to operate in this country us a branch
of the head ofriee. It does indieate that, unless prad-
tiees which some might eall questioneble, ure resorted te
in determining the ameunt of working eapital of a brenck,
sion of the matienality of the campany in Japas.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.95)
em the same basis as a Japanese co poration as regards
tax payments, would have little influenoe in determining
the mationality of the corporation. Furthermore,
although my theoretieal statements would undoubtodly be
oritioized by acoountants, they do unmistakably indioate
that the nationality of the comp ny would influence in
only a slight degree the tax returns to the merioan
government.
The Japanese tux laws may be in contruvention of
the treaty rights quoted by dr. lokove. However, I
feel that the actual operation of companies under the
present Japanese tax laws result in substuntially the
same returns to saoh of th governments conoermed as
would be the case if the 1 w were uniform for both
foreign and domestic corporetions.
Yours very truly,
(SIN D) B.BUTTS
Halluck. Butts,
commereil ttaohe.
HAB:0

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.92)
FE
M
Division of
EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JAN 18 1932
THE LEGAL ADVISER
sl
47
Department of State
STAIC
MEMORANDUM
January 18, 1932.
/HS
Alleged discrimination in Japan in favor of
Japanese corporations as compared with Amer-
F
ican corporations in matters of taxation.
W
FE;
I am in accord with the views expressed in the Embassy'
6
despatch hereunder to the effect that the alleged discrimina
tion would be extremely difficult to establish as a matter ofr
2
law and that in view of the considerations set forth in
23/47
Mr. Butt's memorandum it would appear to be unwise to raise
the question.
It might, however, be desirable to submit the matter to
the Treasury Department with a request for its views whether
it would be worthwhile, from the point of view of the interest
of the United States, to endeavor to effect an amendment of
the income tax law of the United States along the lines sug-
gested by Consul Dickover.
1226
CE ILA
3
894.5123/47

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.97)
AM RECD
BE
1042
ONSULATE,
obe
EA
23,1931
894.5723
SFP 5 31
SUBJECT:
Apparent Violation of Tréaty Rights
in the Japanese Income Tax Law.
TREATY DIVISION
Office of Frenamic Adviser
FFB 1-1932
THE HONORABLE
JAN 30 1932
THE SECRETARY OF STATEPARTMENT OF STATE
CEPARTMENT Of STATE
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
I have the honor to report that, in a recent study of
the Japanese Income Tax Law of 1920, as revised in 1926, I
have noticed what might be considered to be a violation of
the rights guaranteed to American citizens by the Treaty of
Commerce and Navigation of l9ll between the United States
and Japan.
8 1932
The Japanese Income Tax Law (Law No. 11 of 1920, a
amended by Law No. 45 of 1922, Law No. 8 of 1923, Law N
29 of 1923, and Law No. 8 of 1926), divides the incomes on
which income tax shall be levied into three classes, namely,
(Class I) ordinary, excess and liquidation incomes of
juridical persons, (Class II) (a) income derived from bonds,
deposits and trust accounts and (b) income derived by non-
residents of Japan from dividends or bonuses paid by
Japanese juridical persons, and (Class III) incomes of
individuals resident in Japan. This discussion is concerned
only with Class I income, i.e. income of juridical persons.
Artiole

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.97)
8
Article 2l of the Japanese Income Tax Law provides
that (unorficial translation):
"Income tax on incomes under Class I shall
be levied at the following rates:
▲. Ordinary Income:
Juridical persons having head offices
or principal places of business in
the looality in which this Law is
in foroe .
5%
Juridical persons having neither
head offices nor principal places
of business in the locality in
which this Law 1s in foroe . . . . . . 10%."
(Sections B and C of Article 2l, having to do with exoess
and liquidation income taxes, are not quoted, as these
sections do not distinguish between Japanese and non-
Japanese juridical persons.)
Under the above-quoted provisions of the Japanese
Income Tax Law, juridioal persons whose head offices or
principal places of business are in Japan (1.e. Japanese
juridical persons, organized either with Japanese or
foreign capital) are subject to a basic income tax of 5%
of the net income. Under this classification fall all
Japanese juridical persons (ordinary partnerships,
limited liability partnerships, and joint stock companies)
and subsidiary corporations organized by foreign capital
under Japanese law, such as the American Trading Company
of Japan, Ltd., Ford Motor Company of Japan, Ltd., Viotor
Talking Machine Company of Japan, Ltd., and General Motors
Japen, Ltd. Foreign juridical persons, however, operating
in Japan through branoh offices, are subjeet to a basie
income tax of l0% of the net income. Under this olassifi-
@ation fall such American firms as the National City Bank
of New Terk, Standard Oil Company of New York, Vacuum
Oil Gompany, Singer Bewing Machine Company, E. I. du
Pont

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.98)
-3
Pont de Nemours and Company, Inc. and National Aniline and
Chemical Company. The Japan branches of these firms
therefore pay a basic income tax at double the rate paid by
their Japanese competitors. All other national taxes, such
as the tax on excess incomes, on liquidation incomes, on
business profits, on land, and on capital interest, are
assessed equally on both Japanese firms and Japan branches
of foreign firms.
In Regard to Treaty Rights.
This discrimination against the Japan offices of
foreign firms, including the Japan offices of American firms,
could possibly be construed as a violation of the right
included in Article I of the Treaty of Commerce and Naviga-
tion of l9ll, now in force between Japan and the United
States, which provides as follows:
"The citizens or subjects of each of the High
Contracting Parties ahall have liberty to enter,
travel and reside in the territories of the other
to earry on trade, wholesale and retail, to own or
lease and occupy houses, manufactories, warehouses
and shops, to employ agents of their choice, to
lease land for residential and commercial purposes,
and generally to do anything incident to or necessary
for trade upon the same terms as native citizens or
subjeots, submitting themselves to the laws and
regulations there established.
"They shall not be compelled, under any pretext
whatever, to pay any charges or taxes other or
higher than those that are or may be paid by native
citisens or subjects."
The application of this paragraph in the treaty to the
present question depends largely upon the interpretation of
the olause *citizens or subjects.* If the clause "citizens
or subjeots* ean be held to extend to juridical perscns as
well as to individuals, the assessment of ineome tar against
branches of Ameriean firms at double the rate assessed
against

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
agminst Japanese firms, is a direot violation of the Treaty.
The Treaty, however, later (Article VII) provides specifieally
for the operation in the territories of the other party of
"limited-liability and other companies and associations"
organized under the laws of and domiciled in the territories
of one of the parties, which would seem to imply that such
companies and associations (1.e., juridical persons) are not
included in the term "citizens or subjects", who are given
the right to carry on business under Article I. In other
words, if juridical persons were included in the term
"citizens or subjects", Article VII of the Treaty would
seem to be unnecessary. On the other hand, the inclusion
of the phrase "under any pretext whatever" in Article I
would apparently preclude the imposition of higher taxes on
the individual partners or share holders of American juridical
persons than are imposed on the partners or share holders of
Japanese juridical persons.
Frem either point of view, therefore, the assessment of
higher taxes upon the branches of American juridical persons
operating in Japan than those assessed upon Japanese jurid-
ical persons might be construed as constituting an infrac-
tion of treaty rights.
In Regerd to Reciprocal Treatment.
The Japanese Bepartment of Finance has not been
appreached in regard to the reasons for the imposition
of a higher rate of ineome tax on branches of foreign firms
than that levied on Japanese firms, but it is probable
that that Department would justify its action on the ground
mat the additional five per cent levied against the net
incemes of branches of foreign juridical persons is intended

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.97)
-5
to compensate for the faot that the Japanese Government does
not obtain the registration tax and the liquidation tax
from the branches of foreign juridical persons, and does
not receive the individual income tax, from the share holders
of foreign juridioal persons, on the dividends paid by such
foreign juridical persons from profits earned in Japan.
The faet that registration and liquidation tares are
not collected from branches in Japan of foreign juridical
persons is of small moment, as such taxes are collected only
on organization and liquidation of juridical persons. The
registration tax amounts to one-half of one per cent of the
paid-in capital, payable on registration of the firm with
the authorities. This is not collected from branches in
Japan of foreign corporations, as the tax applies only to
the formation of partnerships or joint stock companies, and
not to the establishment of branches, for the registration
of which only a nominal fee 1s charged. The inocome tax on
liquidation incomes (Class I-C of the Income Tax Law)
consists of a tax of 5 per cent on all undivided profits and
10 per cent on other sums, such as appreciation of properties,
whioh remain after all liabilities have been covered, on
liquidation of juridical persons. This tax is not colleoted
from branches of foreign juridical persons, as it applies
only to the liquidation of juridical persons organized in
Japan, and not to the liquidation of branches. These two
tazes, being assessed only at the inauguration and
termination of a business in Japan, can hardly be held to
be equivalent to the additional tax of 5 per cent per annum
on net income levied thr oughout the period of operation in
Japan of foreign corporations.
Tho

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.98)
The argument to the effeet that the additional 5 per cent
basie income tax is levied on branches in Japan of foreign
juridical persons for the purpose of compensating for the
inability of the Japanese Government to colleot individual
income taxes from the recipients of the profits earned by
such branches, would appear to be more reasonable, but in
this case the matter of reciprocal treatment of branches of
Japanese firms in the United States arises.
Under the Japanese Income Tax Law (Article 2) non-
residents of Japan are liable to the income tax only
"If they receive from juridical persons whose
head offices or principal places of business
are in the locality where this law is in force,
dividends of profit or interest, distribution of
surplus, or bonus that is a disposal of profit or
surplus, or any allowance partaking of the nature
of a bonus."
The Japanese Government, under this provision, makes
no attempt to oolleot the individual income tax from non-
resident recipients of the profits earned in Japan by
branches of foreign firms, and it is assumed that the 5
per cent additional tar levied on Japan branches of foreign
firms is an attempt to collect at the source the individual
income tax which the Government is unable to collect from
the individual partners or share holders.
The American Government, however, also does not colleet
the individual income tax from the partners or share holders
of Japanese juridical persons operating in the United States.
Section 215 of the Revenue Act of 1928 provides that:
"(a) General rule:- In the came of a non-resident
alien individual the deduotions shall be allowed
omly if and to the extent that they are conneeted
with income from souroes within the Umited States;
nd the proper apportionment and allocations of
dotermined

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.98)
-7
determined as provided in Section 119 -----."
"Beotion ll9. Income from Sources within the
Uni ted States.
a. Gross income from sources in United States.
The follod ng items of gross income shall be
treated as income from sources within the United
Statos:
(2) Dividends: The amount received as dividends-
(B) from a foreign corporation unless less
than 50 per centum of the gross income of
such foreign corporation for the three-
year period ending with the close of its
tarable year preceding the declaration of
such dividends was derived from sources
within the United States as determined
under the provisions of this section."
In other words, under the American tax laws, a non-
resident alien individual does not pay the income tax on
dividends received from foreign corporations of whose
gross income less than half was obtained in the United
States. As practically none of the Japanese corporations
derive half or more of their gross income from sources
within the United States, the American Govemment does not
colleot the individual income tax from the partners or
share holders of Japanese juridical persons.
The United States, however, does not attempt to
compensate, as does the Japanese Government, for the loss
of revenue caused by the non-colleotion of the individual
income tax from recipients of the profits obtained in the
United States by branohes of Japanese corporations, the
income tax rate being a straight twelve per cent of net
income, both of domestic corporations and of branches of
foreign corporations.
summarised, the income taxes regularly collected by
the Japanese and American Governments from domestic
oorporations

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
corporations and from share holders of such corporations are
as follows:
Japanese Government:
From domestic corporations:
1. Basic income tax at 5%.
2. Excess income tax, if any, at varying rates.
3. Personal income tax at varying rates from
partners or shareholders receiving dividends,
based on 60 per cent of the amount of such
dividends.
From Japan branches of foreign corporations:
1. Basic income tax at l0%.
2. Exoess income tar, if any, at varying rates.
3. Personal income tar on dividends paid only
if recipients reside in Japan.
American Government:
From domestic corporations:
1. Basic income tax of 12%.
2. Individual income tax at varying rates
from shareholders receiving dividends.
From American branches of Japanese corporations:
1. Basic income tax of 18%.
2. Individual income tax from recipients of
dividends only if:
(a) Recipients reside in the United States.
(b)
The gross income of the American
branohes is 50 per cent or more of
the total gross inoome of the corpora-
tion.
The Japanese Government therefore adds 5 per cent to the
basio ineome tar of the Japen branches of American corpora-
iome, preswmably in order to sompensate for the inability
cellees the individual income tar from the American share-
bet the Ameriean Government collects the same income

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.98)
-9
tax from branches of Japanese corporations as from domestic
corporations, although in practically no case is the
individual income tax colleoted from the non-resident share-
holders of the Japanese corporations.
In order, therefore, to accord treatment in the United
States to branches of Japanese corporations equivalent to
the treatment accorded in Japan to branches of American
corporations, it would be necessary to levy an additional
tax of 5 per cent on the net incomes of American branches
of Japanese corporations or other juridical persons. This
might be done ny inserting a clause in the American income
tax law providing that:
"An additional tax shall be levied for each taxable
year upon the net income of every branch office in the
United States of a corporation domiciled in a country
which levies higher or other taxes on the incomes of the
branch offices of American corporations in that country
than are lovied on the incomes of corporations domiciled
in that country, at a rate equivalent to the difference
between the rate of tax levied on the incomes of branch
offices of American corporations in that country and the
rate of tax levied on the incomes of corporations domiciled
in that country."
Such additional tax would, in the United States, be
payable by such influential Japanese corporations as the
Yokohama Specie Bank, the Mitsui Bank, the Mitsubishi Bank,
the Sumitome Bank, the Bank of Chosen, the Bank of Taiwan,
Mitsui and Company, Mitsubishi Shoji Kaisha, Okura Trading
Cempany, Asano Bussan Kaisha, Iwai and Company, Asahi Silk
Compeny

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.97)
-10
Gempany, Hara and Company, Nippon Ki-ito Kaisha, and
various insurance companies. It is believed that, if
these influential Japanese firms were compelled to pay a
reeiprocal additional tax, the discrimination in the
Japanese Income Tax Law between Japanese and foreign
juridical persons would soon be removed.
Final Incidence of the Additional Japanese Taxation.
The Japan branches of American corporations have
not complained to the American diplomatic or consular
officers in Japan, as far as I am aware, of the additional
income tax levied on the branches of foreign corporations,
for various reasons. Many of them, who leave taxation
matters in the hands of Japanese attorneys, are not aware
that they are paying income taxes at a higher rate than
that imposed on Japanese corporations. Others, who know
that a higher rate of taxation is imposed on them than on
Japanese corporations, are not aware that this might be
considered as an infringement of treaty rights. The most
important reason, however, is that the American corpora-
tions operating in Japan are not especially interested in
the matter, for the simple reason that they are permitted
to deduet the amount of the income taxes paid in Japan from
the amount of their American income taxes.
Section 32 of the Revenue Aot of 1928 provides that:
"The amount of ineome, war-profits and exeess
profits taxes imposed by foreign countries or
possessions of the United States shall be allowed
as a sredit against the tax, to the extent provided
étiem 151 (b). Limit on Credit. In no ease
hall she amount or eredit taken under this section
ich swch eredit is taken, whieh the taxpayer's
ineome from sourees without the United States
beara

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.98)
-11-
bears to his entire net income for the same taxable
year."
Undor this provision, an American corporation operat-
ing in Japan 1s, in the great majority of cases, able to
obtain credit against its American income tax to the full
extent of the income tax paid to the Japanese Government.
The final incidence of any taxation (within the limits
imposed by Section l3l) levied on American corporations
operating in Japan by the Japanese Government is therefore
not upon the corporations themselves but upon the American
Government. For this reason protests against the additional
5 per cent tax imposed on the branches in Japan of foreign
corporations have not originated with the corporations, and
it would appear that protests should be made or action taken
by the American Government rather than by the corporations
affected. However, local officials of the National City
Bank of New York and the Standard Oil Company of New York,
with whom I have discussed this matter in confidence,
tate that they will be glad to take any action which may
be deemed advisable by the American authorities.
This despatch is being compiled and forwarded with
the knowledge and approval of the Counsellor of the American
Embassy at Tokyo, the American Consul General at Tokyo, and
the American Commercial Attache at Tokyo, who have been
consulted in regard to the matter.
Respeotfully yours,
E. R. Dickover,
851.8
American Consul.
o/tr
In quintuplicate to Department.
y to Babassy, Tokyo.
to Comsulate General, Tokyo.

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
m.min'
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 18, 1931.
SKH:
Sub jeot:
Apparent Violation of Treaty Rights
In the Japan Inoome Tax Law.
According to the Tokyo Embassy's despatch No. 298, of
August 14, 193l (FE copy attached), which was received in
the Division on September 1 and which comments upon
Mr. Dickover's despatoh No. 1042, of July 23, 1931, relat-
ing to the above subjeot, a round table conference on this
894.
subjeot was held in Tokyo, attended by Messrs. Neville,
Diokover, Garrels and Butts.
The conclusion reached at this conference was that,
5
2
although there was much to be said for Mr. Diokover's con-
3
/47-
tention that the Japanese law does disoriminate against
American firms and might be contested on treaty grounds,
it would not be worthwhile to make an international issue
2
of this question. The reasons for this conolusion were
that (1) a case of disorimination would be diffioult to
establish in law; (2) in actual practice the American
firms did not appear to suffer and had made no complaint;
and (3) so far as the United States Treasury was concerned,
the amcunt involved appeared to be relatively small and
"the operation of companies under the present Japanese tax
laws results in substantially the same returns to each of
the governments concerned as would be the case if the law
were

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
were uniform for both foreign and domestio corporations".
(Soe Mr. Butts' letter of August 7, 1931, attaohed to the
Embassy's despatoh of August 14.)
So far as our record goes, the American firms in
Japan do not appear to be much concerned about the ques-
tion, for the reason that they are not materially affected.
They seem to agree with Mr. Dickover that "it would appear
that protests should be made or action taken by the
Amerioan Government rather than by the oorporations af-
feoted", although local offioials of two of the leading
American corporations with whom Mr. Dickover had disoussed
the matter in confidence have stated that "they will be
glad to take any action which may be deemed advisable by
the American authorities".
On the basis of fact and opinion as shown by this
correspondence, I fully agree with the Embassy that, as a
matter of policy, the question is not of sufficient
importance to warrant the making of an international issue
of it. It is, however, in some of its aspects, a highly
technical question, and I think that Mr. Dickover's des-
patoh of July 23 and Mr. Garrels' despatoh of August 17
should be passed on to EA and Le for their consideration.
along with the Embassy's despatoh of August 14 on the
same subject, which has already gone forward to those
offices.
py
RSM: EJL

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.96)
RECD
LEGAL ADVISER
236
Yo1932
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MERICAN CONSULATE GENERAFREATY DIVISION
8
894.5123
SUBJECT:
SFP
Apparent Violation of Preaty
5.31
DERABTMENT OF STATE
Japanese Icome rax Law.
M
AREASHERDAFFAIR
Office of Ecenamic Advicar
THE HONORABLE
W) JAN 30 1932
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
CEPARTMENT
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
117
I have the honor to rerer to Despatch No. 1042
894.5120/48
from Consul Dickover at Hobe under date of July 23, 1931,
herewith trans itted, in re ard to an apparent violation
of treaty rights in the Japanese income tax law, and the
comments thereon made by Counselor Heville of the Aeri-
can Embassy and those of Conmercial Attace' Butts, the
latter transnitted as an enclosure in te Counselor's des-
/46
patch. ( No.298, Aucust 14, 1931.)
Before formulating his despatch, Consul Dickover dis-
cussed the subject at a conference with Messrs. Heville,
Butts, and me. I agreed with Messrs. eville and Butts
that while a violation of treaty rights existed, it might
be expedient, under attendant circumstances, not to bring
the matter to an international issue.
It was deemed
advisable, however, that Consul Dickover present his view
to the Department and the others append their comments.
While Consul Dickover is undoubtedly on firm ground
technically in his contention, no American interests have
complained; no one is suffering injury; the loss to the
United
FE56 1932

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.92)
-2-
United States Treasury is insignificant; the United
States income tax laws are unstable. I a of the opin-
ion that, under the circu stances, a policy of "quieta
non movere" is advisuble.
espectfully.ours,
Gutur
anrels
Art.ur uurrels,
A erican Consul eneral.
5carbous in4 out
Ea: Dry 1-30.32
File No. 851.2.
AG/yo.

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.96)
19
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.5123/49
701.0694/6
SEE
Despatch
/92
FOR
FROM
Japan
Grew
) DATED
August 11, 1932
TO
NAME
1—1127
REGARDING:
Japanese income tax imposed on American Government officials;
case of Truman M. Martin discussed.
M

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.71)
Toye, A0mst 11, 1952.
ginn.
The omorble
Th0
hi
ir:
The beemy   uetn ylaterl
at Tokgo, undnr lnte of une l4, lo,  nronoh the
approprite nuthoritlos is ation i the ine  x
yx1
 imofimiled
 he id tetr at .
Martta le mot serving under the 1li ary taohe the
iese nd is mot Inlded ia the fricial apse diplutie
1108.
The

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.84)
The master wes takem up by the kabassy with the
Fereim uffiee, pointing out that the wlaries of
frieers of forein governments on serviee in the
United tates are omerally exempt from ine me tax.
The orein friee refe ret the uestion t the epart-
ment of inenee of the ap nese Coverutent and under
date of ugst 3, 193, the o1gn fr1oe inrommed
the Eabasey(a py enolosed that, aocordin t: the
reply received fr ma the epurt unt of nce, it is
difricult to a ply toe x xe ption to f raim overn-
ont r icialnerally xob  or intere,
vnula, erc 1 eretoriea, nd e vert f
their storf.
Under thie ruline, the a, ere me  tax can
be assessd upon roprenrntntiver inthe part
ment of grioulture and irorsur  ent, e ell as
upo theyurterxter et1.
this lea:ter  norn
rnald
winistratlon f Jaan, there  pe re t be nc furter
stop hi the nberey oan takeonn i tetter.
The Dopurtment  wish t c nt idei the advis: bility of
informins the reasury epart ent  i: solsi n in
ame it is destred, ss a matter  recl  ooity, to impose
the merisn income tax on the nanese ov ramene oriolals
residins in the Jmited tates, w!, re not direotly attached
to te Japanese bassy in ashingtom or t) the Ju panese
somsalar offiees in the various cities.
rollowims

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.87)
Follewing is a partial list of Japanese Covernnemt
offiees in the United tates not attnehed to the Japnnese
Embesey or cousilar offices!
Ja nese Ay Inapectors' friee
1775 Broadmay, New York ity.
(Several Japonese amy offieer: are ususlly
ntt ched ti this of 1oe.
Jepanese Nuval inspeetura'Irloe.
1 Madieo: venue,  ew York ity.
Japmose Vinanoial O.. ission,
12 roadwmy,v York ity.
Jap nese Govornuent ailways,
1 adison venue,  York 1ty.
Jop nee overnt Tobeco n oly u
25 roadmy, ow York ity.
Resyeetfully yours,
Josoph Gree.
aclosure:
1. opy of orei frioe Note
r ugust 3. 193.
851.2
LRDI0T

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.5123/
894.52/38
SEE
Despatch #274
FOR
Japan
FROM
Grew
) DATED
Jan.30.1933
IP
NAME
5
0
REGARDING:
Taxation on incmes derived from Perpetual Lease
Property in Japan: Encloses copy of letter
addressed by the Embassy to Doctor Whiting S.
Worden,of Yokohama,in regard to his liability
to pay the Japanese inoome taxes on income
derived from rentals of perpetual lease property
in Yokohama.
fpg

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.90)
No. 74.
To. , Januery o, .
BUBJPCTI
Taxation on Ine mos Leriv d from
Perpetual Lesse Pro erty in Japan.
The don rable
The Secretery or Stere,
Washington.
1r1
Roferring to pr vios correr ondence of the Embasry
with the Dopertment regar ing the cestion of perpetual
11.
Teeses in Japan, I enclose her vith n co y of : letter
we, the Eabassy has an resaed t Dr. whiting S. morden,
of Yoxohama, dated January 80, la, on the subject of his
liability to pey the Japenese ineove taxes on thn incone
whien he derives from the rentals of erpetua! lease pro-
perty in Yokehama.
Respect fu! y yours,
Enc leeure:
Copy of letter as stated.
Joseph C. Grew
sianed origi

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.93)
tCosch
274. Jau. 31,1933 from the
Toky, Jenuary 0, 1932.
oigS. Worden,
in.
4ese Hachiojiyama, Honmoku,
Yokohama.
Sir:
I have r coive an noave give long a c r ful con-
sidertion to your lotr f Novom er 7, l??',
to pre
vious correspondonee on the same subject, namely, your
limbility to payment of ircome t x or income which you ob-
tain from rentals of erpetual lease property in Yokohama.
It appears thet, in ealoulating your incone t x, the Yoko-
hama Tazation Office ineludes : your ircome certain rent ls
whieh you obtain fron  er etusl lease ro erty. You have
pofused to pay the ircoue t'x unlesz these rent ls were ex-
eluded, whereupon the Taxntlon Officr compelle  yment by
threat of distrairt upor certain or your pro crty. You
elaim that this ction constitutes discriminetion gainst
an Ameriean eitlzon, as eitizens sn subjects of other
netionalities are nit foreed, by means of toreats of dis-
traint, to poy such nstional, or: ctural an municipal
ineeme t:xes.
Bofore roceeding to a discussion  y r e e, it
will probsbly be well to explain some of the fund mental
festures. You state in y ur letter!
 I understand that, by the terme of the Trosty
made bete en the Imjeriul Government of Japan
and th Onited St: tes, the inoome dorive" from
rents of builcings situated on (Eitai) Perpetual
Leass Title Deed land is exemnt from Notional,
Prafectural an: Munieipal Income Tsx tion. The
exemption from t xation was confirmed by the
Mague Tribumal to wh ch the cuestion was submitted.
No treaty has ever been concluded between the United
States and Japan defining the st tus of perpetual lease
pre erty or the liability of lessees to taxation of any kind.
The system of perpetual leases grew from asrangememts made
betweem the leeel authorities end the representatives of the
forsign nations in eaeh pert. The only referenee to the per-
petmel leases in any of the treaties between the United States
and Japem is that in the Treaty of l8ss( the treaty arranging
fer the abelitiom of extraterritoriality and the renditiem of
the foreign settlements). In this treaty a elause provides

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.90)
thato
• when such ineorporation( the ineorpore-
:lon of the foreign settlemen's into the
Jepanese coxmunes) takes place existing
leases 1n perpetuity upon w-lcn property
is nox nel? in the seid Settlements shall
be confirmed, and r cor itl ns whatsoever
other tran thone contaired in sueh ezist-
ing leases shsl' e im osed in ror ect o"
such ro.rty."
It will be observed thut t 1s cluuse pes rot expre ly
provite for exea tion fro texat on of any kind, ut throws
the matter back upon the terme sf the orl  inel leases. Iden-
tionl clauses are crt: i'e' i. tr trentirs of other countries
coneluded with Jin t tt same time.
The clsim for exeu tlon from t xstlon, trerefore, de nds
upon the t rms of y ur lease, rt v on ny explicit treaty
right. If y wil exsm'e yr eases ( w ch Irzume
are the at  erd form of lotoe perpetus lease), you will
fin: there  speclfie r fe nee to cze tion fros t x 1on
of any kind. The cl im for xom tion from t retion grew
out of the foct that to losnes, i an ition to a lusp sum
payment whic" evidently is the pure ase rice of the and,
provi e f r tr ayment of sn annual groun rent, wrich was
uncoubtedly i unded t provire for atreete, drris,  Ticins,
ote. After t e renci 1on of the Set:lements in le9g, the
Japanese Government cont st  t claiw tht the ar unt rent
was colleet d in lieu of all t x  ion, Itn ugh it did dmit,
after some controveray, trt she sround rent was collsctad
ln liou or the ano t x. The Government le not adeit that
perpetua: lease ro, erty was cxem t from other t xes sd tried
to colleot the ouse tax. avntu l y this slestion f the
nowse t x was r ferres to the Huzue Tribunal, whieh rendered
a docision in favor of the le se n:dors. The Hague Trihunal
did not, as you seem to think, pass u on the liability of he
Lease holders to payment of inco e tazes, either rational,
prefectural or municipel. However, s xch exem tion u I: seem
to be implied in the S gue Award, which reais a* follows:
 The provislons of the Treaties and other
erg"gemonts sentione: in the Protocols of
Arbitratlon exext not on'y the lands helé
in virtue of the leases in ,erpetuity trant-
ed by the Japunese Governsent or ir its
name, but they exexpt the 'ands an the
buildings of "very kind ereat:  or whieh
may be erected on those ands, from all
imposts, tazes, cnarges, eontributions er
sonditioms whatseever other than those ex-
pressly stipalated in the leases in ques-
tion."
X

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.82)
--
The United States, it sho ld e pbserve", res t a sarty
to the ease before the Hague Trirunal.
The Japanuse Ocvernment, as a rerult of the X Eue
Amare. has relincuished its claimn for texes dir ctly t: ched
e the land an Sull i gs of  erpetu ? lease ro erty, such
es he virious lan taxes, use trxes, rgirration fecs,
sssion t xes,  st  t xes. Th Jaese Coveinment has
neover, however,al  tr exor tion fr s ility to y
ineome tuxes or crpetu! leass  tes,  t ning that
sueh taxes pertain t irivi
t ts the land.
 wil: te sen fro teve, ther fore,  cluim to
exemption from aymuut  come t xes: on irco es er ved
frow perpete? lease ro erty (ruch   r el lm) is at
interpret lons r smer
 ou cluim for xer tor fr yn
tax on that rt or yo r : come dorir d from the rental of
er etu leeero rrty o at b e u or explicit tr ty
rlgt, h tbaasy c rt ttrvene orn if on the
roun of  violt on  extti tre ty. ,he
 Stte rent  nevr rote er l
loas problmblieestion,ther enhe
stand that ach lease Is   lvldual contr ct hetwern e
le rd the Jepaerethriue
is any other rivate contrect. In ot er wor a, tour is o
senerel cortr ett n theteteJav
Ing the st tus  per utee lesee or  iabiliy f erl-
en rpetu lee derto tx tinr tnnre
Embasey ist issitlon t t ve soy t er.l at  vis
vi the Jase rreent e Th sont
tives of the Aerior Governpent tr, n wever, I ys will-
ing to hel keric nrpet ense or with vicend
uch frlonly sslat nce es way  ssible un er tse con-
c1-ions.
shilsreby , teveoptny
gener l po ley rog rdind the cuent lon of cr e u 1 leases,
It n trslst that th ssme trentweut bceor e to a ericon
citizons  is accor ed tre citizens r sutj cts of ury other
nation.
The lafors tion vell bie to the abes y wo  in te to
titt  re not: subjeet or ixcrimination, an thut the
oltlzens a suhjeets of other pations srr el cospelled
 pey 1 sse  sxes on inco es derive fros perpetual lease
pro ertles, on thr ot of eistraint. If, n wevor, you can
adiuce  ny refinite, lognl evidenee thct yu, as ar Amerleam
citimen, sre belng diseriminsted scairst,  thet the citizens

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.92)
 bjeets of other nations aro at being compelled to
pay imeome tazes on ineomes derived fron erpetual lease
property, he Embasay wil: consieer locging a protest on
your behalf.
Very truly  re
Signeds
Joseph C. Grew
ambz ador.
Co.y to Dopartment.
Cons.I, Yokohama.

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.92)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.5123/51
800.5123/239
#689
SEE
FOR
FROMJ an
(
)DATEDF2319
TO
NAME
1-1187
Income tox lows ef u tr. (See cor oo so sroh tuehed).
REGARDING:

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo, February 23, 1934.
No. 689.
UBJECT:
Incomo Tax Laws.
The onoreble
The eoretary of tate,
ashington.
sir:
1 have the honor to refer to the epartsent's
ciroular 1nstruction, iplomatic erial o. 234s, of
August 29, 1933, (F11e 0. 800.5123/166) d1reoting
the mbassy to obtein from the Jepanese Covernment
oertain informetion in regard to income tax lams in
order to enable the Treasury hepartment to give effeot
to the rociprocal provisions of the evenue ot of 1932.
21
I have the nonor to tranamit herewith a copy in
translation of a Note from the Foreign Office which
gives the desired infermation. The copies of the
1900me

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.89)
- 2 -
tax laws mentioned in this Note, are in the
Japanese languege, and aro too voluminous for the
staff of the Embassy to translate. If the epartment
desires, and will euthorize, the mbassy will cbtain
copies of de Becker's translation of the inoore tax
lawe of Japen for transmission to the epartment.
Respeotful y yours,
Joseph.. rew.
nclosure:
1. Copy, in translation, f
Hote from the oreim ffice.
851.2
NTT:l
f

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.87)
Enclosure No. / to duspatch No, ( 87
Irmalation.
2231984
Dopartment of Foreign Aff»irs,
No. 13/T2
Tokyo, Pbruury, .
onsiour l'Abs dour
I m the h nor t: canos edge the roouipt f your
note No. l0s of etober ls, 1952, referring to the rec1proeal
provislons of the Ameriean fevonu Act of l9s and its
applicetion to J pomese sucjects, no  uiring whether
(1) she laws of Je pan allow to citizens of the United Ststes
residing in J pem a eredit for incume, sr- rofita end
excess-prorita t-zes similr t that ilceed to residont
lians under the Revenue et bove-menti omed, né (s)
as to whether oitizons of the nited Et tes who re non-
resiamts in J pea, nd eorporatims org uises in the
United Stotes,  re grnted sxeeptlons with r speet to
earnings ived fr m the p ration of ship of merleen
registry.
The lawe nd regul»ti ms of J pan (l)  llow no
ersdit toware the income tax pay ble by Amoriesn citixms
roaidine ia J pam for ny income tax, wer-ur fits tax or ex-
coss profits tax p in to e foreig ountry by mmeh Americen
citieens, but (E) exempt yment of txes n income do
rived since July l9, is:4 by Ar ricsn eitizens or corcore-
tions rosident in Jepan fro the o se tion of his of
Amerieon registry, by virtue of en undert n Ing efested
eith the United st:tes in 100.
In complince sith the rreuest ex r ped in your
note, I have the honor to trensmit herewith two coples
of the Income Tax Lawe of J: an.
I avail myeelr of this op ortunity to rones to Your
xvelleney the sesurnees  y highwst c nsidretion.
Koki Hirota,
niter for Forign arfuire 
His Kxosllomey
Asbssador Extraordimary and Plenipotentiary
of the Umited states of Amorics,
Torye.
TrITT.

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.97)
123
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE.....894.01B..11/90
FOR #113
894.5123/
FROM .....Kobe.
Scott) DATEDMay.27..1937
TO
NAME
1-1127
GPO
REGARDING:
Information on employees, excluding diplomatic and consular,
furnished Japanese authorities for income tax purposes.
5
2
Advises that-, was furnished to the Kobe Internal Revenue Of-
fice. Further, Consulate has subsequently learned that the
British, German and French Consulates have ignored requests
for such information.
FRG.

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.95)
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH IN THE UNITED STATES
EEGUTVEGOMMITTEE
FOREIGNMISSIONS
1937 0 22 1 9 29
CABLE"LIBERATE
POST OFFICEBOX33O
113 SIXTEENTH AVE.S
NASHVILLE,TENN.
C. DARBY FULTON
B
EXECUTIVE SECRETARY
October 20, 1937
A
HEA Y DIVISION
894.5123
AcA
1937
63
01 271937
The Honorable Cordell Hull
fow
uPLIUE
STATE
Secretary of State
374
Washington, D. C.
NOV
DEPARIMENI OF STATI
10/28/37
1937
For many years the Japanese government has been requrring
the payment of income tax by missionaries representing our Board in
Japan. The income of these missionaries comes entirely from the
United States as they are supported in full by salaries paid out of
the contributions to Foreign Missions of the members of the Presby-
terian Church in the United States.
Recently, one of our missionaries in Japan has raised the
question as to the legality of such taxation by the Japanese govern-
ment, and I an writing to ask you kindly to advise us as to the regu-
lations governing the matter n question.
Our Board also maintains work in the Belgian Congo, China,
Brazil, and Mexico. Would the same regulations, as touching this
point, hold good in all of these countries, or would there be dif-
N0V 6 - 1937
ferent rules applying to the several nations named?
Assuring you that we shall be deeply grateful for any
help you can give us on this question, I am
Respectfully yours,
E Daby Jhllon
Division of
FAR EASTERN LFAIRS
NOV 3 - 1937
Department of State
CDF/b
h

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.90)
November 5 1937
Mr. C. Darby Pulten,
Exesutive Seeretary, Ezecutive Cemmittee
Pest Offiee Bex
Bashville, Teanessee.
s1s:
8
6
I have reseived your letter of Osteber 20, les7,
4
snquiring esnserming the logality of the astion by the
5
一
2
Japeness Gevezmment of tazing the inceme of missienaries
sepsesemting your beard in Japen. You state that the
1
5
imeeme of these missienaries comes entirely frem the
Dasted states. Tou alee raise the same question it cem-
mestien with yeur representatives in the Belgian Genge,
chins, rasil and Meziee.
In reply you ase infesmed that in generel, in the
absence ef disssimimatien er ef appreprlate treaty pmovi-
stems, this Gevermmemt esuld met ebjeet to the temetion
π
of smeemes ef Lmeriean eitisens residing in & ferekgn
R

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.96)
of the United States aliens residens in the United states
are subjeet so payment of ineome tax on their whole income
regardless of its souree.
Artiole 1 of the Treaty of Commeroe and Navigation
of February 21, 19ll between the United States and Japan
provides in part that the oitisens or subjeots of each of
the Migh Contraeting Parties in the territories of the other
"shall not be compelled, under any pretext whatever, to pay
any charges or taxes other or higher than those that are or
may be paid by mative oitizens or subjeots".
So far as Chine is coneerned, you are informed that
the Chimese ineeme tax law 1s not considered applieable to
Ameriean citisens residing in that country. There are no
treaty provisions relative to the taxation of income be-
tween the United States and the other countries listed in
your letter under acknowledgment.
As of possible interest your attention is invited
to the fact that provision 1s made in the Revemue Ast
of lo3e fer orediting the amount of taxes paid to foreign
governments against the amount of inoome tax that may
be dme to the United States Government under cortain
sonditions. Section 131 of the Revenw Ast of 19se
reads, in part, as follows:
•ssa.

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.97)
-3
"SEC. 131. TAXES OF POREIGE COUNTRIES AND POSSES-
SIONS OF UNITED STATES.
"(a) ALLOWANCE OF CAKDIT.-- If the taxpayer
sigaifies in his returm his desire to have the
benefits of this seetion, the tax imposed by this
title shall be credited with:
*(1) CITIZEN AND DOMESTIC CORPORATION.--In
the oase of a oitizen of the United States and of
a domestio corporation, the amount of any inoome,
war-profits, and exoess-profits taxes paid or
accrued during the taxable year to any forelgn
country or to any possession of the United States;
and
(2) RESIDENT OF UNITED STATES.--In the case
of a resident of the United States, the amount of
any such taxes paid or soorued during the taxable
year to any possesslon of the United States; and
*(3) ALIEN HESIDENT OF UNITED STATES. --In the
case of an alien reeldent of the ini ted States. the
amount of any such taxes pald or corued during
the taxable year to any forelgn country, if the
forelgn country of whion suoh alien resident le 
citizen or eubject, in imposing suoh taxes, allows
a almilar credit to cltizens of the nited tates
residing in suoh country; and
*(4) PARTNERSHIPS AND ESTATES.--In the Case
of any suoh individual who is a member of a portn
ship or a beneficlary or an eetate or trust, his
proportionate share of such taxes of the partner-
ship or the estate or trust paid or accrued during
the taxable year to a foreign country or to any
possession of the United States, as the case may
be.
"(b) LIMIT ON CREDIT.--The amount of the
credit taken under this section shall be subject
to each of the following limitations:
"(1) The amount of the oredit in respect of
the tax paid or mcerued to any oountry shall not
exceed the same proportion of the tax against
which such oredit is taken, whioh the taxpayer's
not

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.93)
mst incoms from souress within such country bears
to his entire met ineome for the same taxable
year; and
"(£) The total amouat of the orodit shall
not exeeed the wame proportion of the tax against
which mmch oredit is takem, which the taxpayer's
net imeome from sourees without the United States
bears to his entire net 1ncome for the same
taxable year."
Should you desire further information on this point
it ls suggested that you communioate with the Treasury
Department.
If you wish more definite 1nformation
conoerning the taxation laws in the countries enumerated
in your letter so Par as they may affect the representa-
tives of your board in these countrier 1 shall e pleased
to endervor to ortain suen arormatiu
Pry t
FOTOP
NOV 1 1937.
TD:fdeW: AR: SS
10/28
