894.50 Japan, Economic Matters., January 2, 1945 - September 20, 1945 (File 1492)
ID: 894.50-1492   Pages: 292   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.50-japan-economic-matters-15
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
WeIR
In reply refer to
January 2, 1945.
BC
88
6
4.
Dear Lewis:
Although our time hae been fully ocoupied here, I
5
50/1
seen to have little of interest to write in reply to your
weekly letter of December 27.
You will have received by now copies of the documents
1
2
handed to Jack Hickerson by Merchant Mahoney, raising
the most fundamental queetions of commercial policy. The
4
opening moves have yet to oe made in ECA and, meanwhile,
5
it is perheps sufiiclent to ssy that, in my view at least,
it looks as though we will have to head directly into
the pasic contradlction between thie Department and the
Department of Agriculture with its two-price system to
force our agricultural exports. Knowing our situation,
the Canadlans must have thought a long while pefore pre-
cipitating this issue, but I cannot blame them for seek-
in to know where we stand. The moderate and friendly
tone of their approach suggests that if wultileteral solu-
tions fail, the Cansdians, with their need for an alterna-
tive, realize thet they muet be near 1f not in our camp.
C
S
I attended another three-hour session of the Country
Comrittee this morning on the question of allocating the
A
groundfisn quota. There was no great change in our view-
point, but it has proved a difficult task to write a
report and recommendations for the Trade Agreements Com-
mittee. Incidentally, we are in no particular hurry for
the Canadian reply to our request for reconsideration and
can well utilize the extra time afforded to us. I heard
only this morning that Gushue, Chairman of the Newfoundland
Fisheries Board, 1s in Ottawa at present, and I imagine
that
Lewis Clark, Esquire,
American Embassy,
Ottawa.
yu
1
i

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
that he has had plenty to say about the Canadian request
for allocation of the quota.
As you have probably heard from Frank Graling, General
Foster and General Strong have put their heads together
on the question of when they would like to come to Ottawa
to talk Canol, and I gather that they decided on the last
week of January. Accordingly, unless there 1s a change,
you will not be seeing a delegation from here until about
that time. Frank, I presume, has also told you that
General Henry has written to Ronnie Macdonnell to suggest
that when Canada sends us checks in payment for immovables
appraised under the 33rd Recommendation, it send the
checks directly to the Wer Department. General Henry
made it clear that he was not dunning the Canadians for
payment of the four hundred thousand dollars for the Jesuit
college, but my friend Major Wolf is itching to get his
fingers on it.
Between Clifford Clark's remarks to you and Plumptre's
to me, I am pretty well satisfied, at the moment at least,
that there will be no election in Cenada for a good many
months to come. Incidentally, Plumptre 1s leaving this
spring as 1s his Number Two, Nonteath Douglas. They plan
to leave a comparative underling in charge (as they have
already done with their Munitions and Supply representa-
tion here). So I gether that the rices Board also feels
that its work down nere 1s reduced pretty much to routine
functions.
In case you haven't heard, our Christmas present
here in the Department was news that we would have to give
up our nice suite of rooms due to the taking over of the
south end of the third floor by Mr. Clayton. So I will
not be in 384 much 1onger!
Sincerely yours,
J. Graham Parsons
MP
8k
BC:UGP:sn

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.96)
GGA
EmA
AND
Dcefile
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JAN1 61945
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: January 6, 1945
SUBJECT:
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. Johnson, WPB
Mr. Martin, OSS
Mr. Walker, Commerce
Mr. Hersey, Oss
Mr. Anderberg, Tariff Commission
Mr. Buchanan, CP
89
4.
COPIES TO:
ECA
FMA
5
JA
0
4
GPO
1-1493
5
In the course of a conversation with Mr. Willoughby (CP)
Mr. Locke of Mr. Donald Nelson's office mentioned that Mr. O.
R. Johnson of wPB was making a study on Japan for Mr. Nelson.
Mr. Willoughby told him that he was chairman of an intra-
departmental committee on Japanese economic affairs, and
that he would like to exchange views with Mr. Johnson in
order to avoid duplication of work. Mr. Johnson later tele-
phoned that he was holding a meeting of some officials work-
ing on Japanese problems, and it was arranged for me to at-
C
tend.
S/H
Mr. Johnson stated that at the request of Mr. Donald
工
Nelson he was undertaking a study of the historical de-
U.
velopment of industry in modern Japan, especially the
growth of the various industries. This was to be used
in connection with some other studies, already made, of
the United States and Russia, in an effort to estimate
what might be reasonable to expect in any given period
of time in China. Mr. Johnson said it was necessary to
complete his work within a very short period and he was
anxious to find any studies which had been, or were being,
made along these lines.
There
1945
R

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
There was some canvassing of the situation by the
persons present regarding studies already available. It
appeared that most of the recent work in Government of-
fices had been pointed towards current conditions rather
than towards historical growth.
Published books, none of them quite meeting the re-
quirement, were suggested, and one person from eaoh ageney
undertook to canvass his own agency for further possibili-
ties. (The undersigned is anxious to receive information
about available material.)
Mr. Walker reported that the Department of Commerce
had a collection of published studies of Japan's national
income.
Mr. Martin stated that Oss was working on estimates
of national income, but that they would not be ready for
some months.
Mr. Anderberg spoke of a report on Japan's ship build-
ing and shipping industries which was in process in the
Tariff Commission.
While not very familiar with completed work in the
Department, I suggested that some of FMA's studies would
have important bearing on Mr. Johnson's problem. The
various reports of commercial attachés were referred to,
and I also mentioned that other studies being made in
various Divisions of ECA might have important historical
bearings.
There was a brief disoussion of some of the differ-
ences between China and Japan which would bear upon the
relative speed of industrialization in the two countries.
I did not bring the matter up at the time but subse-
quently suggested that Mr. Johnson might find it useful
to contact the Federal Reserve Board in regard to work
that it is doing on Japan.
CP: DHB: LD

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
TO
TS: Mr. Blakeslee
DATE: January 10, 1945
Ihis Document must be Returned
to the RM/R Central Files
FROM
ECA: Mr. Haley
SUBJBCT:
Document on Economic Policy Toward Japan
Mr. Collado's memorandun to you under date of
August 7, 1944 engaged to bring a paper on long-run
economic objectives with respect to Japan to the atten-
tion of the Inter-Divisional Area Committee on the Far
East. I am now sending you a copy of a document entitled,
"Economic Policy Toward Japan: Summary Statement", which
has been prepared in the Division of Financial and Monetary
894.50/1-1045
Affairs, and which has been cleared in the Office of
Economic Affairs.
You are no doubt aware of the various circumstances
which have delayed the preparation of this paper. Even
now its recommendations must be regarded as tentative and
not final, subject to modification as may be required to
bring them into line with the results of detailed support-
ing studies now being undertaken and with policy as
determined at high government levels.
I should appreciate receiving the comments of the
Area Committee on the substance of this paper at as early
a date as practicable, in order that its submission to the
Executive Committee on Economic Foreign Policy may be
expedited.
B.f.t.
CJC
Attachment:
"Economic Policy Toward Japan:
Summary Statement"
P
1-1045

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
January 10, 1945
This Document must be "Returned
TS: Mr. Blakeslee
to the RM/R Central Files
ECA: Mr. Haley
Document on Economic Policy Toward Japan
Mr. Collado's memorandum to you under date of
August 7, 1944 engaged to bring a paper on long-run
economic objectives with respect to Japan to the atten-
894.50/1-1045
tion of the Inter-Divisional Area Committee on the Far
East. I am now sending you a copy of a document entitled,
"Economic Policy Toward Japan: Summary Statement", which
has been prepared in the Division of Financial and Monetary
Affairs, and which has been cleared in the Office of
Economic Affairs.
You are no doubt aware of the various circumstances
which have delayed the preparation of this paper. Even
now its recommendations must be regarded as tentative and
not final, subject to modification as may be reguired to
bring them into line with the results of detailed support-
ing studies now being undertaken and with policy as
determined at high government levels.
I should appreciate receiving the comments of the
Area Committee on the substance of this paper at as early
a date as practicable, in order that its submission to the
Executive Committee on Economic Foreign Policy may be
expedited.
CJ
C
Attachment:
"Econcmic Policy Toward Japan:
Summary Statement"
6
in
FMA: OCLockhart: ec

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ADVISER ON
~
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
1-24-45
FMA - Mr. Lockhart
I have today sent
Mr. Blakeslee the document
on economic policy toward
Japan.
Attached herewith are
Mr. Mason's comments on this
memorandum.
B. F. Haley

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.97)
TANDARD FORM NO. 64
FmA- wh.Crelado
TO
: ECA - Mr. Hdley
OC/R
entral
DIVISION OF F
SUBJECT: Document on Economic Policy toward Japan
JAN 2 4 1945
This memorandum strikes me as unsatisfactory in several
ways, but I have no objection at this stage in the considera-
tion of the problem to its circulation for discussion.
The main source of my dissatisfaction is the apparent
absence of any firm notion of the kind of Japan - political,
economic and social - which we would like to see emerge
from her impending defeat. This failure accounts for such minor
inconsistencies as the recommendation that the economic power
of the great family corporations be reduced (pp. 6-7) and the
894.50/1-2245
recommendation (p. 8) that the Japanese government be required
to compensate its nationals for foreign property seized on
reparations account; and such major omissions as the failure
to consider the long-range political and economic implications
of the recommendation that the occupation authorities accept
responsibility for preventing the development of "drastically
unmanageable economic situation" and for "the restoration of
essential facilities of trade and transportation."
Attachments
1.
1-12.
CS
S/HM
894.50

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.97)
YDAF
A-EA--Mr. Mason
TO
FMA---Mr. Collado
DATE:January 23, 1945
FROM : FMA---Mr. Lockhart
SUBJECT:
and Dependenoies.
6-86-48
This memorandum is conoerned with the urgent need for
olarification of the respective fields of responsibility of
various groups within the Department that are concerned with
economic problems in the Pacific area. These groups include
89
the Far Eastern Area Committee, the working group on Japanese
4.50
reparations, and the ECA Committee on Japan. A brief review
of the present status of studies in this field will serve to
demonstrate the need for clarification.
1. Two papers passed by the Area Committee dealt, respeot-
ively, with short-run and longer-run economio policies toward
Japan. Both had been considered by our "economic suboommittee"
1
which included representatives not only of ECA, but also of
2
WEA, FE, and TS. The Area Committee not unnaturally took the
3
view that decisions of its subcommittee were subject to its
4
revision in detail. ECA was not satisfied with certain features5
of these papers as passed and proposed amendments to the one
on longer-run pcl1cy (CAC-l60) that were 1ntended to bring it
more nearly into line with an ECEFP paper on economic polioy
toward Germany (D-36-44). These amendments were apparently
not pleasing to some members of the Area Committee, whioh has
taken no action on them.
Meanwhile, the ECEFP requested that a paper similar in
scope and content to D-36/44 be prepared with reference to
Japan for submission to that Committee at an early date.
Mr. Collado advised Mr. Blakeslse of that request and engaged
C
to bring the draft of the new and longer paper to the attention
of the Area Committee. Completion of the paper was delayed for
want of definite indication of polioy at high levels, and the
Area Committee has shown some impatience over the delay. It
1s understood that the completed paper has now been referred
to you by Mr. Haley, together with a draft memorandum of trans-
mittal to Mr. Blakeslee.
8
Although the paper is admittedly provisional, it 1s never
theless believed that its suggestions are consonant with United
h
States economio policy so far as now apparent, and that the
U1
paper therefore affords a guide for the consideration of more
C
specifio

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
speoifio problems associated with its general theme, study
of whioh is now contemplated under the ECA Committee on Japan.
It is further believed that it should be forwarded to the Far
Eastern Area Committee for comment on substanoe in order that
it may be brought into harmony, if that appears necessary,
with general politioal policy toward Japan.
Subsequently, the Committee on Postwar Programs requested
revision of the paper on short-run polioy (CAC-222). Inasmuoh
as the paper was not striotly confined to the short-run, ECA
proposed that further aotion be postponed pending considera-
tion of the new paper on longer-run polioy, and the drafting
officer now appears to have conourred in that proposal. There
is thus additional reason for now transmitting the new paper
to the Area Committee. Furthermore, its transmittal to the
Committee for comment on substanoe will help in itself to olar-
1fy the respective fields of responsibility of the Area Committee
and ECA.
2. An informal working group on Japanese reparations was
constituted some time ago under FMA and inoluded among its
members individuals from other agencies as well as from the
Department. Various phases of the problem were assigned to
membere who were believed best equipped to deal with them, and
some papers have been completed. The responsibility for con-
tinuing this work also needs to be defined with reference not
only to the area Committee but also to the newly oreated ECA
Committee on Japan.
3. In commenting on a proposal, originating in FMA, to
formalize the work on Japanese reparations under a oommittee,
Mr. Luthringer proposed on November 3, 1944, a steering committee
to supervise the studies on reparations and, particularly,
certain suggested studies that he thought should underlie the
paper on general economic policy toward Japan. This proposal
was referred to Mr. Haley, to whom also Messrs. Gay and Willoughby
later submitted proposals for an ECA committee on Japan, togother
with agenda. Suoh a oommittee has now been authorized and its
chairmanship has fallen to Mr. Willoughby. Its funotion is
the general direotion and supervision of economio studies on
Japan, and papers prepared under its supervision are likewise
to be laid before the Far Eastern Area Committee for comment
on substance.
Early

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.95)
一5 -
Early clarification of the respeotive fields of respon-
sibility or the Far Eastern Area Committee, the working group
on Japanese reparations, and the Committee on Japan is of no
little importance for the progrsss of the Department's work
on soonomio problems relating to Japan, and would also con-
tribute to the definition of responsibility for economio studies
relating to other Far Eastern areas. Reference of the paper om
Economic Policy toward Japan to the Area Committee for its com-
ment at this time would be a first step toward obtaining such
a olarification.
O. C. Lookhart
FMA:OOL:a1

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.97)
REV. HAROLD S. LAIRD, D.D.
JAMES E. BENNET
REV. CARL MCINTIRE
ROLAND K. ARMES
PRESIDENT
VICE-PRESIDENT
SECRETARY
TREASURER
THE INDEPENDENT BOARD
for
REV. J. GORDON HOLDCROFT. D. D.
PRESBYTERIAN FOREIGN MISSIONS
REV. WM. H. CHISHOLM, M.D.
GENERAL SECRETARY
FIELD SECRETARY
151 MAPLEWOOD AVENUE
ch
PHILADELPHIA 44, PA., U. S. A.
January 23, 1945
RECRIVED
January 31, 1245
Jile
Honorable Joseph C. Grew
lnsid
Assistant Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Grew:-
RECORDO
894.50/1-2345
Possibly you remember me as one of two missionaries from Korea who
called upon you in Tokyo in 1939 to discuss with you what was happening
to missionary interests in Korea during the period when Japan was beginn-
ing to "squeeze out" all American interests in her Empire.
In company with a number of others I was compelled at last to sever
my connections with the Boerd I formerly served because its attitude was
one of acquiesence in idolatry and also one which would lead Japan to go
further in its overbearing attitude to all American interests
This illustrates the fact that there was even before Pearl Harbor a
sharp division of conviction among missionaries in the Empire as to the
demands Japan was making upon all Americans, but especially upon Christians,
including missionaries.
That division of conviction still persists. On January 6, 1945, a group
of missionaries made a public statement in New York pleading for lenient
treetment of Japan. That statement seems to many others to be very unfortu-
nate, and for that reason another group has prepared the statement of which
I enclose a copy.
S
Many who have signed the statement I enclose have spent many years in
the Japanese Empire, and many of them actively opposed the pacifism and
lack of conviction so sadly prevalent among many other missionaries. That
pacifism, in our opinion, was actually a contributing factor to the war
that eventually came, in that it helped to lead Japan to believe that she
could do what she would and that Americans and the American government would
go no further than verbal protest in any case.
n AE 
We who have signed this statement do not believe there can be freedom
from menace for any neighboring nation, and certainly not the real religious
liberty in which we are especially interested, as long as the present govern-
ment of Japan, centered in State Shinto and militarism, continues to exist.
50
We therefore oppose the statement issued in New York, some of whose
sighers are known to have condoned the Japanese government's demands upon
1.2345
the whole Christian Church of the Empire and of subjected lands, by which
measures, and those which Japan has adopted subsenuently, the Christian
Chirch as such in Japan has been forced to become a part of one patriotic
religious body composed of Shintoists, Buddhists, and other non-Christian
religions. This new religious body evidently includes the one union

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
Honorable Joseph C. Grew - January 23, 1945.
Page 2.
Protestant Church of Japan and the Roman Catholics, all pledged to utmost
effort to "destroy the blasphemous religious ideals of America and Britain,"
as a Tokyo broadcast picked up by the F.C.C. puts it.
Those whom I represent do not believe that such a government, dominated
by militarism and by State Shinto, which is practically the deification of
Japan, should be allowed to continue to exist. We are loyal supporters of
the United States of America and her Allies to the point of absolute surrender
of Japan and the reconstruction of her government in a way we believe will be
found to be necessary to the peace of the world and even to the freedom of the
Japanese people themselves.
We are not giving this statement to the press because we do not want to
create eabarrassment to our own government or possible difficulties for
Americans who may now be in the control of Japan. I am, however, sending a
copy of our statement, together with a letter similar to this to the
President and to the Secretaries of State, of War and of the Navy because
we believe this is a most serious matter involving many American interests in
the Orient in the future, including any real liberty even to Japanese subjects.
If you should desire further information as to my relationship to this
whole matter Mr. Wn. R. Langdon, former Consul-General in Seoul. (Keijo) Korea.
and now in the State Department, would be very glad to give you such information.
Sincerely yours,
JoordouHolderf
J. Gordon Holdcroft
KPM

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.98)
MISSIONARY STATEMENT RE
PHACE PROPOSALS FOR JAPAN.
According to news despatches, a group of twenty-three missionaries from Japan.
Korea, China and the Philippines have issued a pronouncement againet the proposals
widely made for a "hard" peace for Japan. Their statement says that these proposals
"seem to call for ruthless destruction of life and property until unconditiomal
surrender is followed by a military occupation." They advocate an international
authority whose jurisdiction would extend to all nations, victors and vanquiabed
alike, and which would make unnecessary "this drastic surgery of Japanese mation-
hood." This statement was made public by Dr. Charles W. Iglehart of Union Theo-
logical Seminary. New York City.
Such a statement does not represent the point of view of Bible-believing mission-
aries who believe that acceptance of Jesus Christ as Saviour and Lord demands unre-
lenting opposition to worship by Christians at the shrines of the alleged sun-goddess
of Japan. The Japanese military dominated government is identified with Japanese
National Shinto. N tional Shinto teaches that the Japanese emperor is divine, that
it is the destiny of Japan to rule the rest of the world, and that that rule is to
be accomplished by military measures. Can we expect a just and lasting peace with
a government that has such ideas and is in a position to enforce them with military
powert
In seeking to accomplish world domination, Japan has attacked America. If
that National Shinto military government is left in control of Japan after the War,
we can expect another war of agression to follow in twenty-five or fifty years.
as soon as Japan recovers from the present conflict.
We, therefore, missionaries who have lived in the Orient, or mission executives
having interests there, affirm our belief that God is the final arbiter of conflicts.
but we believe that, humanly speaking, we can expect no lasting peace as long as the
present National Shinto military government rules Japan, for that government not
only denies all religious liberty to its subject peoples, but menaces the peace of
the world.
SIGNED:BY:
Nission Board Officers and Executives:-
J. Gordon Holdcroft, General Secretary. Independent Board for Presbyterian
Foreign Missions
Harold T. Commons, President, Association of Baptists for World Evangelism
Robert S. Marsden, General Secretary. Committee on Foreign Miasions,
Orthodox Presbyterian Church
Albert C. Snead, Forsign Secretary. Christian and Missionary Alliance
Harold S. Laird, President, Independent Board for Presbyterian Foreign
Missions.
Missionaries to Korea:-
Floyd E. Hamilton
Wm. H. Chisholm
Mrs. Wm. H. Chisholm
Ruth B. Hamilton
Nellie C. Holdcroft (former missionary)
Missionaries to Manchuria:-
John M.L. Young
Henry W. Coray

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
Philip W. Martin
J.G. Vos
Mra. Philip W. Martin
Marian M. Vos
Nissionaries to Chinat-
Albert B. Dodd
Richard B. Gaffin
Missionaries to The Philippine Islandst-
Paul O. Culley. Dean of Whenton College (former missionary)
Samuel Fisk
Stella L. Hower
R.C. Thomas
Bernice Hahn
Norma Peabody Thomas
Robert P. Kohler
Orace E. Kohler
Ellen W. Kartien
Bernard Bancroft
Mre. Bernard Bancroft
Louise Lynip
Sadie Busse
Missionary to Indiai-
Frank L. Fiol
Missionaries to Japan:-
Esther S. Bower
Anne Pfaff
Wlizaheth M. Whewell

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.89)
FE
Jamoary 31, 1945
My dear Dr. Holdoroft:
I ncknowledge the rocelpt of your letter of Jan-
unry s. 1945 w1th w 1oh you enolosed a copy of a
st tement signed by you and e number of other pereons
who are pepeolally intorested in post-war plana for
Jap n. 1 acknowlodge also the receipt of a eimilar
letter addrossed t the Seoret ry of State.
Your lotter and ite encloaure have been rend
wit int'r et and your courteey in givins ue the
benefit of your vi ws snd tae viewe of the coeleners
of the st tement is vory much crpreclated.
In connection wit  your reference to Mr. Wil-
liem . longdon. yor moy bo inter ated to know that
for vore then n yeur r. bengdon ae boon our Conoul
Sen ral at unmina. Ce
vincerely yours.
Joseph C. Grew
Acting Secretery.
Parteons Hill
Ta Reverend
J. Gordon Polderort, D..
CR
Oon ral seeretary. The Independent oard
For Preebyterian Foreign Missions,
JAN
31.345
i 1 maplewood Avenue,
Philadelphis 44; Pennaylvania.
.c.g.C.
2
F:0:sn/mho
F22
1/30/45

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.91)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THÈ UNDER SECRETARY
1/25/45
Will you please draft a
reply to the appended letter
from Rev. J. Gordon Holdcroft
for Mr. Grew's signature?
Mann, Johnoton
Ch
jele
U:AY

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.92)
EChwnwIC DIVI
FEB261945
FEB1
OF COMMERGIAL PULIGY
FEB 1 6 1945
846
FEB 22 1945
AIRGHAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FROM
SIOCKHOIM
Dated: Janmary 25, 194
URFICED
Roo'd porw. 12, 6pm.
The Secrotary of State,
Washington.
A23, January 25, 12 noon. Janenese Boonomio.
hosded articlo in the KRakAU R ZTunG of January 12,
1945, the Japanoso pursue varying economio polioles in
the sreas ocgupied by them in the course of the last d
or so. Tus, Manchukuo and northern China have economio
2/03/
ly. boen fusod in the so-called Northern Block. whioh al
com ripes Jupan proper. On the other hand, "owing mainly
to tranaportation diffioulties", the southern areas heve
been kopt cuonomiually sogregated, with emphasis on each
separate country s "sutarky"
In. endeavoring to consolidate the economy of the
Dhlle
Jorthern Dlock, the Japanese pay particular heed also
here to the tronoportation question. To this end, the
Koroan railvay systan has been made double-traoked thron
out. Another in ortant measure is the simpltfication of
customs' formalities, whioh was effected last summer.
"Great scurifices" are seid to have boen br
 - A n
Japen in order to ronder the Northern Blook self
agriculturelly. There is no longer. any ride impor
the south. As a matter of faut, rice has to a
tent been supcreoded by bread grain, the cultiva
which io strongly promoted. Extonsive river regulatio
nal,
Dist.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.95)
Stookho1m A-83
-2- A-83, Januery 25, 1945, 12 noon from Stonkholm
mork carriod cut in Manuhukuo hae "opened large treo
of wasto land" for agrioultural msbandry.
Chile "denzely-populated Japan has become the
of Groater ast Lsie, enohukuo is by mow both er
and gracary of the Forthorn Block". Northern Chime
the third partner, is said to be "developed as a mour
of supply of raw materials".
The great dearth of compodities in Japan, bas 
sulted in groat amounts of liquid cash being awailable
whist is not cyon absorbcd by the savings banks. to
froquent whioh the Japanesc are urged. In view of the
gigantic inorcuso" in the viroulation of notes, it is.
pointed out that this phenomonon, for an objeotive
apuraisel, should be vonaiderod in the light of Japan's
"anornous coonomic aohievcnents". The armamente in-
dustry cspeuially is seid to have reached proportions
whieh could not have lsen foresuen only a few years ago.
Of the soveral branohes of this industry, airoraft pro
ductlon particularly is statsd to be "more than satisfad
tory".
As regurds Jupan's soutiorn "possessions", i.e.
Lalaya, Porueo. Snmatru, Burna, Thailand, Frenoh Indo-
vhina and tho Philip ines, "differont oriterie have. Deen
applicd". the mein attention in these areas is devoted
to the production of food and clothing, while the indum
in these countries nainly covero the manufaoture of paper
matches, buildin, timber, glass, tools, et cetere.
JOHNSON
BLC/AA/ar

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.96)
ocu
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
TO
FMA: Mr. Collado
DATE: Feb. 3, 1945
FROM
FMA: Mr. Lockhaft
SUBJBCT:
Area Committee attitude Toward Paper on
Economic Policy Toward Japan
Mr. Ballantine desired to discuss certain aspects of
this question with me. He spoke well of the paper but
suggested that it could scarcely serve as a reply to the
Centrel
0
many specific questions asked by the Army and Navy. After
some discussion he said that he would prefer to regard this
paper as setting forth basic policy for guidance of the
Department in answering such questions, and that the answers
should be prepared either in FE or in FMA, according to
6
circumstances. I said that I would cooperate with such a
plan.
Mr. Ballantine further said that he wished this paper
0
to be discussed in the Area Committee only from the point of
view of its substance and not from that of form, to which
2
Retummed
of course I agreed.
3
Mr. Ballantine was very anxious to make it clear that FE
and the Area Committee wished to defer to the economic officers on
questions of economic policy, although he considered that FE
was responsible for seeing that that policy was in harmony
with general political policy. Finally, he apologized for
the delay in considering the paper in committee, which I have
understood from Mr. Blakeslee is the result of specially
CS/A
urgent work growing out of the interest of the House Committee
on Naval Affairs on the Mandated Islands.
It had seemed desirable to me that you should be present
when the Area Committee discusses this paper; not only have I
on several occasions told the Committee that you were responsi-
ble for the paper in accordance with your memorandum of last
August to Mr. Blakeslee, but I had felt that certain members
of the Committee had already taken an unfavorable attitude
on the question of jurisdiction. In the light of Mr. Ballantine's
remarks, however, the question of jurisdiction should not
trouble greatly.' I shall advise you when the Committee is
894.50
prepared to discuss the question and you may then determine
whether you will attend.
5-
FMA:OCL:ec
eu
45
Division of Fina
and Manetary Affaurs

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.96)
THE OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY
FAIR
HowARD L. BevIs, President
DEPARTMENT OF PsYChOlOGY
COLLEGE OF EDUCATION
COLUMBUS 10
21945
OT
February 5, 1945
DIVISION OF
Mr. Stanley Hornbeck
State Depurtment
AR3
Washington, D. c.
1945
Deur Sir:
Let me identify myself us
One of the great needs in dear
will obviously be to locute J punese who oan be relied upon
in recons truction. I know one such.
Yoshio Kora lived for nearly two yeurs in my home while
pursuing gruduate studies t Ohio 3tute Univursity. He is a
Ceramic Engineer and was last heard of in his f ther's large
894.50/2-545
Cerumics und Refractories Factory in Yahata. It is my under-
stunding that the Kora fumily ure ruirly lurge scale operators
and of Samurai origin.
Yoshio was too short even for the Japanese army and as
he had a job vital in w rtime, I suppose he will still be in
Yah ta unless our bombers get him.
He is reserved beyond most Jupanese but I came to know
him quite well. I am sure of his ngrained dislike and distrust
of the militury cli ue, of his complete skepticism about
Bushido and Empero worship, etc.He believed that the Man-
churian dventure might enrich industriulists ("like my father")
but not the Japanese n.tion or people. He studied Russian here
becuuse to study it at hone meant to give rise to suspicion that
one was Comnunist--which I m sure he was not. Neither is he
much of a democrat. I should rute him rather us politicully
skentical and inactive. lthough he ws influenced by uakers,
he seemed to huve embraced no religion. nd he returneu to
Japan in, I think, 19s9 at the c ll of rumily und national "duty"
with no thought or pursuing his own h-ppiness--as neur as I could
tell a typicully Jupanese attitude.
894.
FILED
81945
prove useful to us.
Yours very truly,
HoraceB. English,
Horace B. EngYish
Professor of Psychology
HBl:mt

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.92)
25
Meh 27184
In reply refer to
FE
Hy dear Dr. English:
As you know, Mr. Hornbeck forwarded to me
your letter of February 5. The carefully prepared
biographio data contained in your letter is of
interest and I am making thie information available
894.50/2-545
to the appropriate offices of the State Department
and also to other agenoies of the Government which
may find it useful. Your thoughtfulness in furnishing
this material 1a appreciated.
Sincerely youre,
For the Secretary of ete
2115
Joseph W. Bailantine
Director
Office of Far Eastern Affairs
Horace B. Englieh. Fh..,
101
NE0n
The Ohio State University,
Columbus 10, Chio.
C
S
m
JA:BRJohansen:KMB
FE
D/CR
AJ
323/45
tre e
2
sigued 
545
1

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.93)
Mab 219
The Aating Secretary of State presents his
complimente to the Honcrable the Secretary of War
and enoloses as of possible interest to the Civil
Affaire Division a copy of a letter from Mr. Horaoe B.
English of The Chio State University containing
894.50/2-545
biographio data on a Japanese subjeot.
Enclosure:
From Mr. Horace B. English,
February 5, 1945
r
JA: BHJohansen: KMB
FE
D/CR
3/23/45
2113
201
CS/MA
894.
11171
MAR
-545
Diz

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENTO
FEB 2 01945
945FEB 15 PM 20
Hon. Joseph Grew,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIDS
AND RECORDS
11945
Dear Sir:-
NIRECTOR
Dpartment of State
I have a suggestion, bearing on our post-wer
treatment of Japan, which might prove inteYosting. I have
never found this suggeste: by other arm-ohair stratogists.
I an assuming that Japan is driven to unoondit-
ional surrender. Tha Japanese have a peculiar mental process,
coupled with "loss of face", which should rake them willing
to accept sre radical saorifice applying to their personal
lives,- as a sort of humiiity or penance.
I propose that Japan should be anglicized, that 1s,
the English lunguage be instituted, and I have reason to
believe that this proposal would not meet with too serious
objection by the Japanese. Their language has been one of the
greatest barriers between ther und the western world. Japan
is in our"sphere of influence" whether we like it or not. I
believe we will find it to our advantege in the years to come
t.) rake it possible for us to know them better, that we will
know what is going on there. They have copied everything mat-
erial in our Iway of life", it might as well be made unanimous.
Also, we micht find it to our advantage to stalerate
too much Russian influence in this sphere. e can be sure that
m
'ussia will take over if we don't. I ar not sceptical of every-
thing  ussian and do believe we can ret ulong with them, but
it will pay to watch out for ourselves in some ways to avoid
overgrowth of obvious tendencies.
If there is anything of any srali value in the
suggestions, the govern ent is certainly weloome to them.
Very truly yours
DCRNE Unit
P. K. leek,
Box 346
Bowlin

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.90)
February 27, 1945
Ny doar Ns. Neok!
Xr. Orew has asked me to anewer your letter ef
February 12, 1945 in whish you offer some interesting
argumente in favor of substituting Eaglimh for Japeo
nese as the national language of Japan.
Japnnese sohools and was a requlred course in some, 
68
could properly be regarded as the sesondary eommeresal
language of the country. It may well be that after the
war further stimulus ean be given to the use of Keglish
力
in Japan. Howev-r, it would be well to remember shat
05
Japan hnn not suooeeded, despite the rather dressie
methods employed, in making Japanese the generally-used
language in Korea. One should alse recall that even in
the Philippines, where our treatment of the popmlatiom
2
offered the most favorable atmosphere for the adopsiem
of our language, rngliah is by no means in umiversal mee.
"ith these and other historical preeedents im mind, is
would seem prudent te consider oarefully the extemt to
whloh one could go in attempting to inerease the use of
ingllah in vapan without giving rise to a state of mind
amone the Japanese gontrery to that whien would be demired.
Sineerely yours,
ERD
Mm
Erle R. Diokover
Chipr
Division of Japanese Affaire
ust.
Box 346,
1458.
Bowling Green, Mlesouri.
JAIHLIMHP
JE
Jin
2/24/45

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.97)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
0
TO
Files
DATE:
Feb. 16, 1945
FROM
O. C. Lockhart
SUBJECT:
Paper on "Ecpnomic Policy Toward Japan"
Mr. Dooman called on me yesterday to discuss this paper,
with which he expressed general, though not complete, assent.
He was particularly concerned with its failure to provide
specific instructions for application to particular situations
I told him I thought this resulted from the character of the
paper which was based generally on the German document, as
requested by ECEFP. He insisted that specification would be
necessary though he thought it might be in other or supplementaf
papers, and suggested that this should not be regarded by the
economic officers as the definitive paper on Japan. I told
him that I had had no such thought and cited the letter of
transmittal to Mr. Blakeslee in support. He then suggested
that the Area Committee might proceed to have other papers
894.50/
prepared which would answer specific and detailed questions
which he assumed would be presented by Army and Navy. I
replied that I did not feel in position to say whether the
Area Committee or the economic officers should prepare these
more detailed papers, although I realized that the contact
with the Army and Navy was more direct through FE. In this
connection he referred to the State, Army and Navy Coordinating
2
Committee and to the problems before them.
1
Finally, I suggested that the Area Committee might, if
645
it saw fit, either make a minute or pass a resolution to be
presented to Mr. Clayton or Mr. Mason approving the paper as
setting forth basic policy for guidance of the Department in
answering specific questions. Mr. Dooman approved this
suggestion and indicated that he would make such a proposal
to the Committee.
I found it hard to avoid the feeling that there was some
jurisdictional interest in Mr. Dooman's comments, particularly
since he referred to specific papers as if they were to be
prepared in the Area Committee and in part because Mr.
Ballantine had on February 3 suggested that specific papers
C
should be prepared either in FE or in FMA.
S
H
DC/R
M
94.
A
50
Re口_
2
Cat
16045
FMA:OCL:ec

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.73)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Manh6/65
Ecx
Mr Soverenjin romits
J thewhh
1 baeet
his luin don
ralean

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.97)
FE
J. SOVÉREIGN,
PRESIDENT
COVEREIGN, TREAS. & GENL. MGR.
OFFICES & MILLS
heALADDIN
NORTHERN DIVISION
BAY CITY, MICHIGAN
WESTERN DIVISION
PORTLAND, OREGON
Company
MANUFACTURERS OF
ALADDIN READI-CUTH
HOME OFFICES
BAY CITY. MICHIGAN
MAR 5 -1945
Mar ch 1, 1945
Office of
Mr. Joseph C. Grew
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Assistant Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
Fraom
rss
Dear Mr. Grew:
Depariment of Stata
We thought you might be interested in reading a copy of
894.50/3-145
our letter of August 9, 194l addressed to the then
Ambassador of Japan, Admiral Kichisaburo Nomura. This
copy is herewith enclosed.
We predicted at that time, before the Pearl Harbor
"Incident", that we would be at war with Japan and when
that time arrived we would destroy their cities by fire.
That prediction is now rapidly taking place.
In that same letter to Admiral Nomura we advised him
that when our war with Japan was over and their cities
had been destroyed that we would like the job of re-
building those cities for Japan.
We realize that in all bombed-out areas, whether it be
in Japan, China or Europe that the people in these
territories, having lost everything through the war,
will not be able to finance themselves to a new start.
We desire to ask you whether or not the United States
Government has any plan, or expects to have a plan, for
financing the rebuilding of some of these areas that
tave been destroyed by bombing and fires, and if such a
plan is contemplated that you kindly advise us concerning
F
the same. If no such plan is contemplated, we ask your
advice and suggestion as to where and how The Aladdin
Company could finance the huge amount of money it would
  n
take for such purposes.
We have the plans, the specifications, and the experience
to organize and put over huge building operations based
on our Readi-Cut System of manufacturing houses by machin-
ery so that they can be erected by all classes of people
in all parts of the world.
AIADDIN
HOMEBUILDERS TO THE NATION OVER THIRIY THREE YEARS

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
Mr. Joseph C. Grew -- 2
3/1/45
This Government will certainly be hard pressed to put to
work the millions of unemployed that we are bound to have.
The greatest opportunity to put great quantities of sol-
diers to work, as well as private individuals, is in the
erection of their own homes which have been manufactured
by machinery and which they can themselves erect.
An investment of this kind 1s the best kind of security
there is for the advancement of Government funds, and we
would like to seriously cooperate with the State Depart-
ment and our Washington Government in handling big house
construction work after the war is over.
Any information or suggestions you can give us on this
subject will be very much appreciated.
Yours very truly,
THE ALADDIN COMPANY
W. J. Sovereign,
WJS:JM
President

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.98)
THE ALADDIN COMPANY
BAY CITY, MICHIGAN
August 9, 1941
Admiral Kichisaburo Nomura
C
Japanese Ambassador
Washington, D. C.
Dear Admiral Nomura:
In these hectic times Japanese cities may soon be wiped
out by fire. After the war is over, the Japanese Govern-
ment will probably decide to rebuild their cities by
0
modern methods. The most logical place for the houses to
come from for this purpose would be from the United States
and the most logical firm to take charge of the rehousing
of the Japanese people under Japanese Government supervision,
should be our Company.
The money for this purpose might be arranged for with our
P
Washington Government. While our Government is now busy
financing many foreign governments, we feel confident that
after the war is overwith, our Washington Government would
give serious consideration to financing the rebuilding of
the cities of Japan.
Kindly permit us to bring to your attention at this time
The Aladdin Company and our Aladdin Houses.
By way of introduction we wish to explain that The Aladdin
Company originated the Readi-Cut System of manufacturing
and shipping our Aladdin Readi-Cut Houses.
Starting about twenty years ago and continuing on thereafter,
The Aladdin Company was favored with orders for their
Aladdin houses from some of Japans largest and most in-
fluential corporations. In fact Admiral Togo lived and
died in an Aladdin house shipped to and erected in Tokyo.
Some of the corporations we have received orders from in
past years include such well known Japanese firms as:
Mitsui & Co.
Yukio Arishima
Takata & Co.
J. Taumara
Yuji Sawada & Co.
Macondray & Co.
Mitsubishi Saeji Kaisha Ltd.
T. Shikata & Co.
and others.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
THE ALADDTN COMPANY
BAY CITY, MICHIGAN
Admiral Nomura -- 2
A 1, 1941
We also shipped 1n 1923, the American Red Cros tal
buildings that were erected in Yokohama, Japar
The reason for our writing you at this time it it
you can forward this communication to the prol
10r1-
ties in the Japanese Government for their coni
Lon
0
when the proper time arrives.
Thanking you in advance for bringing our Comp
the attention of the Japanese Government, we
Very truly yours
P
THE ALADDIN COMP
W. J. Sovereign,
WJS.F
President

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.97)
7
UNIVERSITY OF UANFORNIA
24
LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA
March 11, 1945
MAR271945
DO/B
Office of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIR
Mr. Joseph C. Grew
MAR 1 5 194
Acting Secretary of State
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIRRCTOR
MAR 21 1945
Washington, D. C.
arinment of State
DEPANTMENT OF SIATY
894.50/3-1145
Dear Mr. Grew:
ansind
my
Now that the larger cities of Japan are being razed, the capitula-
tion of Japan proper may not be far distant, and it is time to write this
letter. You will not remember me, but I saw you often and shook hands
with you once in Tokio during the Summer of 1936. (Do you remember how
Admiral Yarnell lectured the Japanese Navy at the banquet given to our
visiting fleet?) But I kept away from the Embassy, because if the purely
private researches I pursued had been known to the Japanese government,
it was best that you should know nothing of them.
Between March and September of 1936 I tried to discover whether
and how Japan might be diverted from its headlong course toward war. As
you know, the die was already cast when the February incident allowed
Terauchi and his associates to seize all the portfolios and strings of
CS/EG
government. But I continued my inquiries, covering all levels of the
Japanese hierarchy from ordinary citizens through educational, military,
business, and diplomatic circles, until finally I reached M. Matsuda,
former ambassador to Rome and Brussels, and et that time advisor on foreign
relations to the Emperor, whom he met thrice weekly. With M. Matsuda I had
more than one long and disturbing conversation. I met him through his son-
in-law Yoshi Kagami of the Mitsubishi clan, whose wife was related to the
families of the assassinated ministers. In this way I learned much of what
lay behind the political scene.
I made no report to Washington on my return to the United States,
being assured that our Government was perfectly well informed of what went
on in Japan through you. Nor have I published any account of my findings
and conclusions regarding Japan, since these might have endangered or
embarrassed my informents there.
Frankly, my desire is to be of service in the determination of the
directives governing the future of Japan. I have no useful knowledge of
the Japanese language, but since I was a boy I have given considerable study
to its history and culture. I am persuaded that Japan, in spite of its
present limitations, can and should play a role in the future world, and that
its enactment of this role is wholly dependent upon the friendship and guidance
894.50/3-1145
of the United States. I believe that Japan will recover from this war mor
easily and quickly than China will reach political stability. Given our  lend
E
nat.
R2
Cat.
Dist.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
2. Grew - Miller
March 12, 1945
rather a support to us in the fulfillment of our Far East policies. There
are good men in Japan; I know some of them and can find more. If these men
can be gathered together and wisely instructed, we shall have done much for
the future development of Japan and for world peace.
It seems to me that whatever service I may be able to render would
be best utilized in an advisory and perhaps anonymous capacity rather than
in any official or administrative position. What I would like to do is to
bring together the group of political, educational end business leaders
whose liberal government would advance both the interests of peace and the
interests of the Japanese people. I am perturbed by some recent statements
in the public press as to what should be our future policies toward Japan.
I would say that the prestige of the Emperor can be made a temporary asset
in the direction of Japan toward popular government, and that those who
advocete violent end radical revolution at this time show little understand-
ing of Japan and little real concern for our relations with that people and
with Russia.
Short of such effective service as I have indicated, I would prefer
to remain here, where I have work that I love in philosophy and in the
rehabilitation of religion in our intellectual and academic life. My
governmentel service would presumably be temporary.
Believing that the future peace of the world depends on a solid
relationship between the U.S.S.R. and ourselves, and that this relation-
ship is affected more directly by what happens in the Far East than by
Europeen eventualities, importent though these are, I am glad to know that
the immediate responsibility for our Pacific policies is in your hands.
Yours very sincerely,
Nhigh Miller.
Hugh Miller
(Professor of Philosophy, The University
of California at Los Angeles. Author
of History end Science, Christian Truth
in History, etc.)
HM:B

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.96)
25
Marta 2, 
In reply refer to
JA
Hy dear hr. Miller:
I have read with much interest your letter of
March 11, 1946 in which you state thet you desire to
be of service in connection with tne poat-wnr settle-
ment with Japan and would particularly like to put to
practical use your xncwledge of Japanese leadere.
As you doubtless realize, it is impossible at
this stage of the war to foresee at wh t time and in
what manner civilion autroritles xli partioipate in
the edministretion of affeire in Japan. For that
reason it seeme to me thet at the present time your
desire to render essistence to the government might
best be effected through our military authorities.
With that in view, might it not be well to oommunicate
with the Civil Afrairs Division of the ar Department
or with the ccupied Areas Seotion of the Navy Depart-
ment, both of which are oharged with problems of
military government? For example, I elleve that
th ee offices would find of immediete interest eny
inrormation you could furnlsh whioh would supplement
their files of blographio deta on Jepanese personalitirs.
it also occurs to me that you mi ht wish to write to
or visit the Civil Affeire Training chool at stanford
University.
1 thank you for your kind expressien of endorsement
of my eprointment as Under Secretary of State.
Sincerely yours,
Acting Seoretary
us
Hr. Hugh Hiller,
University of California,
22 1445P..
405 Hilgard Avenue,
A true dapy ef
the sigued erigi-
Los Angeles 24, California.
a
JA:BRJ:KMB
FE
S/CR
3/22/45

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.92)
21
Please initial if you concur,
25
and return with this slip to
C. R.
Ky dear Mr. Miller:
I have your letter of Merch 11, 1945, 14 regand to
your desire to be of service to the Government in some
capecity in w tch your interest ond training in Fer
naterm mottere might be of value.
The present heeds of the Department of State for
pereone heving a kngwledge of the For net are met
largely by Foreign arvice officers who have ned speolal
training in thnt pree lowewer, four desire to be of
service end the aririt of helpfyiness which prompted
your letter are very mud: appreolated. You may be as-
aured that the Depertmond is giving careful consideration
to ll queations w loh may bear upon our Far astern
relations, including probips arioing in conneotion with
rost-war plans for Japan
Your kind expresafon of ndorsement of my nppoint-
ment as Under Seoretary of Staty 1s also appreoleted.
Singerely y ure.
Aoting Seoretary
Mr. Hu h Miller,
University of California,
MA
405 11gerd Avenue,
Californin.
Los Angeles 24, 
E.9.C
3/CR
FE
FE: C: MHP
417
3/20/45

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.96)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
Central
OC/R
his Document Must Be Roturned
TO
Files
DATE: March 12,
8
FROM :
O. C. Lockhart
SUBJECT:
Economic Policy Toward Japan
My notes indicate that at a meeting of the Area Committee
on February 17 ir. Blakeslee indicated with reference to
section VI on page 1l a desire to limit controls to a period
as long as necessary to establish democratic government. He
stated that in early recommendations of the Committee this
thought had been indicated by referring to the future Japan
as "member in the family of nations", but said that this phrase
had been deleted on Mr. Long's objection. Mr. Blakeslee thought
the paragraph assumed permanent subjection of Japan and suggested
that he wouid be satisfied with some such phrase as, "control
will run for some period of years beyond military occupation".
There was general dissent to this suggestion and, after con-
8
siderable discussion, the Committee appeared to approve
6
phraseology suggested by r. Ballantine reading as follows:
94.50
"Notwithstanding the fact that the ultimate aim of
the United States is a Japan properly discharging
50/3
its responsibilities in the family of nations,
there must be envisaged the fact that the control
of the Japanese capacity to wage war, which will
3-1245
begin with disarmament, must necessarily extend
beyond the period of military occupation."
I may add that the official minutes are less specific with
regard to Mr. Blakeslee's comment than my own notes.
I contended that the statement in my text with regard to
C
the continuance of control beyond the period of occupation was
S
obviously true,and referred to the section on time periods.
H
Perhaps partly as a result of that reference, but also because
of Mr. Dooman's suggestion that the word "current" appearing
M
in the first sentence of the second paragraph should be changed
to "continuing" (this change suggested to me the very point
to which Mr. Blakeslee objected), query was raised as to the
relation of these two paragraphs to the time periods described
in Section III.
I stated that the first paragraph was
primarily concerned with the first period of military occupation,
and the second paragraph concerned primarily with the third period,
but
G
0
1
3
2
5

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
but that it had proved impossible to make a rigid distinction;
the several periods inevitably overlapped more or less. At
the meeting on Saturday (March 10) Mr. Borton sent in a re-
draft of the section which did not seem to me to be satisfactory.
There was, however, considerable discussion around the table,
largely by members new to the meetings, and the Chairman
repeatedly suggested that political considerations were
involved. So many and such conflicting suggestions for amend-
ment were suggested that it appeared to me hopeless to do
anything about it at that time. Mr. Ballantine was appealed
to as a master-rephraser but he, likewise, confessed himself
confused by the various suggestions. At the close of the meet-
ing the matter was left open by the Chairman's statement that
the Committee hoped I wouid find a way of emphasizing the
successive time periods in this section of the paper more
clearly than had yet been done, and that I might confer with
Messrs. Ballantine and Dooman on this point.
At the meeting on Friday, in response to the Chairman's
inquiry as to my views of the Committee's suggestions, I said
that I thought there was very little ground for the Committee's
contention concerning time periods. It was suggested that
the sentence having to do with electric power plants was better
placed in the first paragraph than in the second, and at the
time that seemed to me to be possibly true; although it had
been removed from the first paragraph as a result of earlier
suggestions in the Committee. It now developed that some of
the new members were unable to distinguish between the reference
in the first sentence to the control of current operations and
that to the control of electric power. On reconsideration in
a quieter environment, however, it appears to me, and I so
stated at the meeting on Saturday, that the sentence on electric
power control might be placed in either paragraph because both
had some reference to the second time period.
There was also some reference at Saturday's meeting to
import control and its dependence on the support of exporting
countries. Mr. Dooman appeared to argue somewhat along the
lines advanced a month earlier by Mr. Blaisdell that control
of this sort (eyen though so obviously of a post-war or post-
peace character) could not be conducted through the international
organization even to the extent of obtaining the cooperation of
exporting countries, andithe clause which indicated otherwise
should be deleted.

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.92)
-3-
Mr. Johansen, who had not attended the first sessions
of the Committee on this paper, proposed to put in a caveat
with regard to the inability to distinguish the periods.
Mr. Ballantine suggested inserting a statement to the effect
that measures during the third period cannot be completely
foreseen. Ho acted as secretary of Saturday's-meeting and
I have-not yet received his minutes.
1/2117-0
CHC:/LC
Htay 4,1944
F.A:CCL:ec

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.97)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
TO
Files
DATE: March 12, 1945
FROM
O. C. Lockhart
SUBJECT:
Paper on Economic Policy Toward Japan
Some members of the Area Committee, particularly Mr.
Files
Central
OC/R 89
This Dooument Must Be Roturned
Blakeslee, have been extremely anxious to preserve the
inviolability of private property according to what I
believe to be now obsolescent tenets of international law.
At meetings about a month ago Mr. Quincy Wright had acknowl-
94.50/3-1248
edged that the trend of thought on this subject was contrary
to his views, and Mr. Eagleton had suggested that the
practice of totalitarianism had materially changed the
situation with respect to the rights of private property.
Nevertheless, at meetings on Friday and Saturday, and over
my protest at the Committee's taking up points which I con-
sidered had previously been accepted, the third paragraph
of the sub-section on Reparation was taken up for discussioj
and after a good deal of conflicting opinion among the thre
men who have been mentioned Mr. Eagleton suggested the
5
adoption of such language as would avoid the legal problem.
S.
Late Saturday afternoon Mr. Blakeslee brought to my
office a draft, which I understand has now been agreed
upon among these men, or at least as between Mr. Eagleton
and himself, copy of which is attached.
D
An
4
Rov
Cat
894.50
C
FMA;OCL:ec
CS/HHH
13.1245

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.95)
I
Another source of reparation may be found in Japanese
public property abroad. The several United Nations should be
free to sequestrate and liquidate property rights and interests
belonging to Japan or its nationals, individual or corporate,
within the territories of the respective United Nations,
including territories ceded to them subject to later decision
as to whether and how compensation should be made to private
Arcident
owners. Small holdings of individual Japanese should not be
disturbed.
The foregoing provisions should apply also to
Japanese property in Korea and in the former Japanese Mandated
Islands. Such property might be placed under the trusteeship
of one or more of the United Nations until the ultimate dis-
position of such property has been determined. Policy in
respect to the sequestration and compensation for such property
should if possible be uniform among the United Nations. The
military government in occupied areas should assume control
of such sequestrated properties; and should retain control of
them in such areas as Formosa and Korea pending decision as to
their disposition.
Cr

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
JA-ERJ
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
fl
AMERICAN EMBASSY
near the Netherlands Government
5, Grosvenor Square
MAR 2Y 1945
London, W. 1.
March 16, 1945.
Dear Joe:
The letter here enclosed reached me, by
the pouch, today.
I am not acquainted with the author of the
letter. I am, as you will note. making an acknow-
ledgment and informin: the author that I am sending
his letter to the Department for such further action
894.50/3-1645
as may be deemed aonrooriate. You might care at
least to write him and say that his letter, forwarded
by me, has reached you.
Yours ever,
staej<ltorl
Enclosure:
Letter dated Feb. 5, 1945
addressed to Mr. Hornbeck
by Horace B. English,
Professor of Psychology,
Ohio State University.
Fil
10y
6o
Department of State.
APR 111945
FILED
/M
1
IAJ
164

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.97)
Cojeg
near the Natherlands Government
5, Grosvenor Square
London, W. 1.
March 16, 1945.
Dear Professor English:
Your letter of February 5 regarding one
Yoshio Kora has reached me here in London today.
I am forwarding it to the Director of the Office
of Far Eastern Affairs in the Department of State,
by whom it will, I am sure, be given appropriate
attention.
With appreciation of your courtesy in
supplying the information contained in the letter,
I am,
Yours sincerely,
STANLEY K. HORNBECK
Professor Horace B. English,
The Ohio State University,
Columbus 10, Ohio.
SKH:1gh

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.97)
22520
EMBASSY QFTHE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Chungking, China, March 27, 1945
Office of
RESTRICTED
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1945
No. 259.
Japanese Periodicals on Japan's
War Economy and Other Subjects.
894.50/
The Charge d'Affaires, a.1., has the honor to
transmit translations prepared by the American Co-
ordinated Translation Center, Chungking, of articles
from Japanese periodicals on Japan's war economy and
other subjects. Ozalid copies of these translations
have not been made by the Embassy because copies
CN
assumably have been sent to Washington by other U.S.
3-2745
Government agencies participating in the Translation
Center. Following is a list of titles of articles,
names of publications and dates of issuance:
1. "The Establishment of Japan's War Economy",
Koron, Tokyo, December 1, 1943.
C
2. "Evacuation and Emergency Food Reserve"
S
Nippon Sangyo Keiza1, Tokyo, June 1, 1944.
3. "Business of the Associated Trading Organi-
G
zation", Koek1 Eidan No.Shimei To Katsu
Do, Tokyo, June 25, 1944.
4. "Iron Resources in North China", Kahoku
Keiza1 No Yakushin, Tokyo, July 11, 1944
AHE
OF STATE
5.
"Designated Industrial Zones and Constru
945
tion Zones", Seikaku To Kokudo Keikaku
PERIMENT OF STATE
Tokyo, July 20, 1944.
6. "wnat is Expected of the New Cabinet",
OEPMEN
Toyo Keizai, Tokyo, July 29, 1944.
7. "Re-evaluation of the Natural Resources o
North China", Toa, Tokyo, August 1944.
8. "A General Survey of Economics", Nihon
Hyoron, Tokyo, September 1, 1944.
9. "The Strengthening of Labor Mobilization",
Shuho, Tokyo, September 6, 1944.
10. "The Cooperation Between the Manchurian
Heavy Industry Co. and the Financial
Cliques", Tairiku Toyo Keizai, Keijo,
Chesen, September 25, 1944.
11. "Present Conditions in Philippine Islands--
As Seen from Cabinet Reshuffle", Jikyoku
Joho, Tokyo, September 25, 1944.
12.

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
AIR MAIL
12. "Present Conditions in Fighting Formosa",
Jikyoku Joho, Tokyo, September 25, 1944.
13. "The Food Problem of North China. Strengthen
the War Time Control of Economy", Shin Toa
Ke1za1, Tokyo, October 1944.
14. "Arrival and Assumption of Office of Rear
Admiral Minato Keijo, Naval Attache in
Shanghai", Tairiku Shimoo, Shanghai,
November 11, 1944.
15. "General Economic Outlook", Toyo Keizai,
Tokyo, November 11, 1944.
16. "Conscription of Workers", Nihon Seij1
Nenpo, Tokyo, November 20, 1944.
17. "National Financial Statement", Toyo
Keiza1, December 16, 1944.
18. "Manchurian Budget for 1945", Mainichi
Shimbun, Moji, December 27, 1944.
19. "Military Personnel Change", Hong Kong
Nippo, Hong Kong, January 1, 1945.
20. "Personnel, Gazette of Ministry of Interior",
Asahi Shimbun, Kokura City, January 7,
1945.
Commencing about June 1, 1945, the Coordinated
Translation Center will mimeograph translations of
articles from Japanese and other periodicals. The
Embassy plans to submit five copies of all such
translations to the Department.
Enclosures:
20 enclosures, as listed above.
850 Jap
CHB/mel

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure no. 1 to despatch no. 259, March 27, )
1945 from the American Embassy, Chungking, China)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 212
CHUNGKING
29 DEC. 1944
TRANSLAPIONI F.E.A:/ JEAN WANG
ACTION: F.E.A.
INPO; O.W.I.
OSS Major Stevens
EMBASSY
- File
FROM: KORON (Publ1o Opinion)
published in TOkY0. 1 Dooember 1943.
THE ESTABLL HMENT OF JAPAN'S WAH ECONOMY
An Important Theery on National Constitutional Eeonomy
By: RYOKICHI Nagai (志)
Preface
In 1931, at the time when the anohurian Inoident broke out,
rationalization of industries and a ourtailment poliey were thoroughly
carried out following the financial panio of 1928. Consumption of the
people was restrained to prevent the yen exohange from dropping. A song
oalled "Let's ourtail" because popular, and the whole nation followed a
negativo policy under the motto of "sound finance". As a result, workless
people filled the whole country beoause of the retrenohment of enterprises.
Numerous people were homeless and hungry. Farm villeges were impoverished,
and the farmers were foroed to sell their daughters. Sohool graduates found
it so very difficult to find a job no matter how madly they ran for it, that
they even hoped for a suioide revolution. The ourtailment polioy was onforoed
by Mr， WAKATSUKI (若 规). MF. HAMAGU CHI (演 口). and Mr. INONE (井 上)
in order to maintain the value of the Yen on the international exohange market,
to reduce the prices of staple commodities, to promote export. By doing so,
they hoped to iaorease the inooming revenue for the valance of trade, and to
readjust finanoial affairs. The London Naval Disarmament Treaty was conoluded
with sucn an economioal and financial polioy as its background. In short, the
fundamontai polioy of Jar Ay was to maintain the velue of the yen on the
international exchange market which was under the control of AMERICa and
ENGLAND; in other words, to win over the oonfidenoe of AMERICA and ENGLAND in
Jaran on the internatlonal market. Howover, AnIid and ENGLAnD. whose
confidence was sought by JAPAin took advantage of the situation, asked forcibly
for naval disarmament on one hand. and attempted to kick JArAn out from
Manohuria on the other. so JAi An was in a bitter situation then. But it wa
not the ws of uaPAn to suffer from titterness. The persistonce of fightir
JaaN today 1s a worthy reply. Nevertheless, A hICn and ENGLAND were al
in a condition of readjustment of their financial affairs owing to the 
of l929. These causes all lay in the unmanageable problems following 
Ja

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.98)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 212/P. 2
CHUNGKING
29 DmC. 1944
World war, und here is the destined mountain pass whioh the world histery
must eross over. The orisis of the British and American oapitalistio
colonization polioy originated from the world wide development ef industries.
This is the souroe of all troubles.
The Manchurian Incident, the withdrawal from the League of Nations.
the NOkTH CHIn Inoidont. the CHINA Inoidont, the GREATER EAST ASIA War. the
growth of Italian Faoism in EUROPE, the sudden rise of Nazi GERmANY. the
formation of the econemioal bloo of the British Empire at the OTTAlA
Conference, the execution of New Deal Policy in AMhICA, this series of
faots shows that the system of Anglo-Amerioan oapitalistio world-domination
was about to collapse, and two contradiotory foroes, one trying to defend
the system, and another to overthrow it. were pushing eaoh other. The world
situation was as suoh, and tnis war broke out for the final solution of
all troubles.
Wo neve already received the Grand Imperial Deoree and are confronting
a saored war of life end deuth. Now, we must make olear the historioal
meaning of this war. have an insight into the future of world history. place
a firm oonfidence in it, and must not get excited at the changes of war.
Introduction
The combined offensive operations of BAITAIN, AMRICA, and RUSSIA has
reaohed a fiorce stage. The question to be considered first of all is to
what extent will this oifensive be carried out. To think the war situation
is unfevorsble to the Axis powers, and that there is no way left to win it
without taking into consideration the speed and limitation of the development
of the three sided offensive in the paoifio, on German-Russian front, and in
the Southern uropean front, would be no other than defeatism, a thought
eaused by lack of understanding of the historioal significance of this war.
The faotors deoisive to the who!e situation of this war are INDIA and CHINA.
Whother they will be born anew on the waves of nistory or not will be the
key point to deoide the victory and defeet of those taking part in this war;
so it is oorreot to think trat the finting going on in the battle fronts is
offering a ohance to I DIA and CHI A to live anaw. If this should happen to
a oertain extent even at a time when the war is about to end, they will play
their role in talanoing the internationai power. Those who win the war won't
be the vietors necessarily, and those who lose the war won't be the oonquered.
Whether a country oan win over INDIA and ChINA to her own side or not will
deoide her vietory and defeat in this war. This is the big turning point of
world situation in history. To fight this war without studying this faot is
not only meaningless but also difficult to be the final victor.

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.98)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 212/P. 3
CHUNGKING
29 DEC. 1944
When we kook at the war situation under suoh considerations, we, would
know that the main point of the question is the speed and limitation of the
development of the Anglo-Amerioan and Russian offensive. Isn't it right to
think that it will take quite a long time for the Amerioan offensive in the
Paeifio to reach JAPAN proper? Even in the case of the North Pacifio War.
we must not be astounded at the battle of kURILE Islands. We oan set
ourselves at ease, for before BRITAIN and AERICA oan succeed deeisively in the
their Pacifio offensive operations, the Indian Poople's Army will eause an
uprising in INDIa, throw INDIA into disorder, and a force whioh has been
positive to RilaIn and AEkICA will become against them, or at least the
be nullified.
As a matter of faet, this World war originated from the Asiatio War.
The first World ar started from the war in EURuPE, while this ene began
with the Manchurian Incident, so it was an Asiatio War that developed into
a world war. EUROPE was the prime mover of the first World War, while ASIA
plays a leading role in this second one. Therefore, we should not say
JAPAN will win the war if GERANY wins it, but put it in the opposite way
and say GEllAlY will win the war when JAPAN wins it. That is to say. JAPAN
will win the war in entire ASIA including INDIA and CHINA.
Now we come to the question of nistorical recognition again. In erder
to make INDIA and CHINA completely anti-AxERICA. anti-BRITAIN and anti-RUSSIA.
we have to cateh the real meaning of this war, and get the full support of the
Indian and Chinese people.
We will not be able to win this war if we don't have a political
thought good enough to guide the period and to guide the war. This politieal
thought must not be an abstract idea, it must be a realistio thought whioh
can bring about conorete effects. The sonclusion is that we must undorstand
INDIn and ni. A, and estatlish a political thought which can draw INDIA and
Chlna to our side. fnerefore, we have to bigin a big politioal job in INDIA
and Callla. For this purpose we must mobilize all the personnel suitable for
this job.
Meanwhile, we ought to onange our system at home to the original form
of our Imperial mpire, to inorease our fignting strength as quiokly as possiblo.
and make the efleot of tais sy stem really oharming to INDIA and CHINA.
In INDIn and CHlA will sever relations with BhITAIN and AmERICA, and if
the European Fortress and the Paoific Ocean oan be well protected, the
capitalistio countries like BhIiaIn and AfbriCa will lose their market in
EURoPE. INDIA. the Southern Regions, CHINA. and JArAN. They will collapse
evon if we leave them alone. Yes, we are sure that we ean make them oollapse.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 212/P. 4
CHUNGKING
29 DEC. 1944
Here is the real historieal meaning of this war.
Lot us turn to the aystem at home now.
The prinoiple of our war time polioy has been to maintain the status
quo in the fields of administration, industry, finance, oulture, and so on.
and take various measures for temporary management of the demands in war time.
Now, chis metrod must be reoonsidered. The faot that our government decided
to adopt this fundamental polioy was due to the presumption that 1t was
dangorous to onange the system at home during war time. The public also
took it this way.
However. the danger whioh the government tried to avoid came at last.
As the fundamental prineiple was to maintain the status quo, and war time
policies were oarried out as tomporary measures, the government could not
stiok to one firm guiding prinoiple.
Under the present oondition, we are not atle to attain our objoot in
inoreasing our fighting strength, neither can we stand up as a forerunner of
this period to guide all the hsiatio peoples. The time has come for us to
examine oursolves and pay good attention to the lessons in anoient and
modern history either in the East or in the West. The governmont started
to improve the nome system when I started writing this artiole. I am very
glad about that. But a more change without a clear idea to serve as the
foundation wiil make the situation worse. I hope the result won't be so bad.
The present World War broke out in the course of historioal development.
and no one can deny that there is certain historicel signifioence in the war
itself. In proseouting this war, we have to make olear in the guiding polioy
of the war. our historioal recognition of this period and our fundamental
resolution to adapt ourselves to it.
We have to show our reoognition and resolution when we handle
international political affairs. We have to lot the peoples of GREATER EAST
ASIA understand our reoognition and resolution, and make them realize that
JAPA.. 1s the real liberator of IlDIA and CHIliA. In order to attain this
purpose, we must inorease our fighting strength by establishing a fundamental
polioy based on the development of the period and a national resolution, and
manage to in the war.
To make the maintenanoe of the status quo fundamental polioy in war time
is to be void of war time polioy. Noreover. it is a natural result that the
maintenance of the status quo as a prinoiple would conflict with the temporary
measures whioh are considered to be war time policies, end cause a reformation
of war polioies in turn. The increase of production would never be satisfaotory

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.98)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
29 DEC. 1944
TR 212/P. 5
CHUNGKING
under suoh a condition.
There exists the elosest relation between the inorease of our fighting
strength by a reform of our nome systom, and the winning over of INDIA and
CHINA. In order to make INDIA and CHINA truly believe in JAPAN, w have to
adopt a pare Japanese method to inorease our fighting strength and show them
our mmasing viotories in the front line. Thus. they may be able to find a
way to liberation by adopting their own method. There is still much left
in both her populace and resouroes. for JAPAN to utilize. If measures of
reform can be adopted, there is no doubt that our produotive capacity will
inorease very quiokly.
What are the measures of reform? As it has often been mentioned in the
movement of japanism, both capitalism and communiam are renounoed. But what
1s the economic theory of Japanism which denies both oapitalism and
communism? Vie have to aoknowledge that the movement of Jopanism has not
been able to obtain effeotive results. because no clear answer was given
to this que tion. Therefore, some people usually think that as far as
economio problems are conoerned, Japanism is a kind of masked communism.
or that it is a proteotion of good looking capitalism. This artiele is
written for the purpose of finding out a sort of answer to the above
mentioned question.
Like Confucianism and Buddhism, both capitalism and communism orginated
from imported ideas. of course no imported idea can fit with our national
constitution in the beginning. As expressed by the facts in Japanese history,
we have always been picking up the good points in the imported ideas to help
the growth of our nationel constitution, and always leaving out the short-
comings. Iherefore, in the protlen of economic reformation whioh we are
confronting nowadays. we have to consider also the question of now to piok up
the good points and leave out the short-comings of oapitalism and communism,
to nolp the deveiopment or our national constitution.
In absorbing foreign oulture, the probable standard for us to stick to
is the olarifioation of our national spirit. In other words, it is the
exolusion of sucn points in foreign oulture whioh are not suitable for our
national spirit. Therefore, when we come to the soonomio affairs, the problem
does not lie in the distinotion of olass. The main sutject would be the
disregard of the monopolistio capitalists for the national comstitution, and
the problen of produotion rather than of distrioution. If we start from the
questions of distritution and class, the view will become a communistic one;
and if we start from the opposite side, the view will be a capitalistic one.
This artiole is written from a point of view completely in support of our
national constitution, so the capitalistio side may take it as communistio;
and the communistic side take it as oapitalistic. Many people are holding

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.98)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TH 212/p. 6
CHUNGK ING
29 DEC. 1944
suoh a view in the present transition period, but it is not a correot view
at all.
Last of ail, I want to add a fow words concerning the relation of
the renovation of JAPAN to the liberation of ASIA. Firstly. JAPAN has to
1norease her fighting strength with a pure Japanese method. then she has to
oneek the Anglo-American offensive, make those Indians and Chinese who doubt
JAPAN to take a new view toward JAPAN. and enable them to awaken and be
self-cenfident about the fact that they can also acquire glorious independenee
based upon their respeotive tradition, and abolish capitalism and communism.
If the Kusso-Japanese War was a warning bell towards the liberation of AsIA.
this World War should be the realization of the liberation of AsIA. The
liberation of ASIA will be the severanoe from BRITaIN and AMERICA. but it must
not be a liberation to the way of Russian Comnunism. ASIA must realise its
liberation with an Asiatic spirit. First of all, JAPAN should show the world
the substance of an Asiatic JAPAn with real power as her fighting strength.
The ohance has come for JAPAn to show her original form. Just like
the ohiokon breaking her egg-shell and like the strength of the strongost
youth, our various "inner life" strongth will be expressed in a united
manifestation. The quiok prograss and development of JAPAn whiolh the world
will witness as a miraole will become the expression of JAran's divine
charaoter, nd tnis expression will astound the whole world. rhere is
surely no doubt acout it.
BRilAln and AMERICA were surprised at GERuAnY's unexpeoted quiok riso.
GeluanY was surprised at the unexpected strengtn of RUSslA. It is RUssIA'
turn to be surprised at uAran's Limitless power. Thus. the world is tending
to the awakening of the East.
Finanoe. Tax System, and Monetary Ciroulation
The war against AMhiICA is fought not only in the battle fields. but
alco in political, eoonomical, and oultural spheres. If we emphasise only
the victory in the tattle field, and hesitate to exclude the Anglo-Amorican
and the non-Japanose poinis in our home system, we won't be able to win the
war in the battle field. We will be disqualified as the liberator of ASIA,
and the final victory will be unoertain.
Our present finanoial system is an Anglo-American system. whioh has
been put in practice sinoe the reign of MEIJI. It is entirely Anglo-Amerioan
in the prineiple. But when we take a look at our war-time finanoe. we oan find
some aspects of a Japanese system. In a time like this, I believe the affairs
woull be simpleified. Our fighting strength would be increased effeotively
if we ohange our financial system to a Japanese system. Besides, the ohange

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.98)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 212/P. 7
CHUNGKING
29 DEC. 1944
does not necessitate any establishment of new organs. Thesonly thing we have
to do is to make the temporary measures permanent. This is a point we shmuld
pay our attontion to.
In the first place, we should change our fundamental polioy of making
taxes our souroe of revenue. How is it if our governmont issued administrated
ourrenoy, that is to say. to lay our foundation of revenue souroe in the
issuing of national ourrenoy, and use taxes, public loans, and savings as the
means of ourrenoy deflation? By doing so, we can avoid the oomplioation and
delay in tax colleotion, we ean remove the people's unnecessary burden, and
we oan also liberate the finance of our country from capital.
In the first place, we have too many kinds of taxes today. This is
because the government has taken paine to make the burden of national
expenses fall fair and sasy. even though the greater part of the huge war
expenses has been drawn from the public loan bonds which the Nippon Bank
() reoeives. The temporary measurs of depending on publio loans
received by the Nippon Bank oan be ohanged entirely to the issuing of national
ourrency for the souroe of revenue; then reduce the kinds of taxes, simplify
tax oolieotlon, and establish a new tax for mergency besides the regular
taxes. Tins reguiur taxes are the fundamental taxes according to the present
tax system, while the emergenoy tax is ∞ enable the government to colieot
more money wnen a great mount of floating fund is available. or when the
government considers it necessary to collect more taxes from the point of
view of the national and social polioy. rhis would be a tax system for
maintaining the soundness of ourrenoy. It is called an emergonoy tax. If wo
adopt the national ourrenoy systef, taxes will no longer be the people's
burden for national exponses. end our aim is piaced on the full utilization
of industrial eoonomy rather than the fuirness of tax burden. The weaning
of the tax system will change fundumentally. and finance and economy will
become one inseparable subject. Nowadays, finanoe and eoonomy are inseparable
as a practical question, but they are separated in form, so much effort is
expended unneoessarily, and auch business is done to no purpose. If we handle
finance and economy as one thing from the beginning. the work can be done
more essily.
since the laws of the Nippon Bank were enacted. the system of ourrenoy
administration has been put in praotice. but the good points of currency
administration oan not be expressed if it does not go as far as the isauing
of national currency. It is not impossible to lay the foundation of revenue
source in the issuing of netional ourrency, neither is it diffioult technically.
It is a step we zust take as the fundanental national polioy concerning the
various measures for the inorease of our fighting strength. Ihe fact that
this step has not been taken shows that there must be a most serious problom
in our national constitution. We way say that whether we oan show the real
form of our Imperial Empire or not, depends on the solution of this problem.

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.98)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATIONCENTER
T 212/p. 8
CHUNGKING
29 Dc. 1944
Firstly, we oan get rid of the polioy of obtaining reveme from
the public loans. reoeived by the Nippon Bank, and let the National
Treasury issue notes making the notes our souree of revenue. A sountry
has its own inherent economio power. The cconomio power of a nation
consists of the land, the people, the people's property and the governmont's
property, so it is a matter of course that a country can issue national
ourrenoy with its economio power as a foundation. Moreover. beeause the
govermmant has the highest and greatest economio power, there should be
no necessity for the government to borrow money from the people. If a
system has the possibility of harming the prestige of the country. it
has to be reoonaidered in view of the true meaning of the national
constitution. Besides, the system of getting revenue from taxes means
the management of the country ty people's money. This is the origin of
the theory that considers the nation es a common organ of the people.
in other words, a democratio country, and this is also the origin of the
theory which deems the Emperor an organ; and eventually. the meaning of
parliamentery partioipation in the government is misundorstood.
Aocording to the above mentioned reasons, it in clear that the
system of establishing a revenue souroe by issuing national ourreney
has a good basis. As a matter of fact, the enaotment of the Laws of
the Nip, on Bank and other financial measures in praotiee now are all
heading towards that direotion. This shows that the system fits with the
demand of the period. The faot tnat this system has not been realized
is due to the existence of Anglo-American scono.mic idea in a part of our
politioal fieid whioh takes the aocumul ated oapital of bonds as the
only foundation of economy and considers the oredit to the government
as a kind of desirable private property. rherefore, the realization
of a Japanese finanoe has been obstructed.
It seems that some people consider this reformation of monetary
system to te the realization of communism. Eut, communism absolutely
denies the aooumulation of capital, and there is utterly no possibility
for this system to be communistio beoause its foundation is expanded
beyond accumulated capitel. As will be mentioned afterwards, this
system acknowledges the acoumulation of capital within the limits of
non-monopolistio capital, so it is different from communism from the
starting point. Tere is no thing more important today than to support
the sound middle class of our nation against communistio ideas,to repel
the non-nationalistio point of capitalism. and to reorganise our basis
of thinking for war time eoonomy. It is our urgont duty to establish
and put in practioe e financial and economical system in Japanese style.

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.98)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 212/P. 9
CHUNGKING
29 DEC. 1944
In the Laws of the Nippon Bank, convertible notes (券) are
ohanged into bank notes (). and the gold standard is ohanged
into administrated ourreney. But as the laws lay the basis of the
issued notes in bullion () and bonds, there is not muoh ohange
substantially. That is to say that only the aocumulated capital
is to be the basis of the issued notes, while the whole national
eeonomio power is not taken as a basis. Now, we want to suggest the
issuing of national ourrenoy with the whole national economio power as
the basis.I telieve there may be some teohnioal problems. but millions
of publio-loan bonds wore issued. and by the adoption of various con-
trolling measures, there was no finanoial defeot. This shows the possi-
bility of issuing national ourrenoy with the whole national economical
power as the foundation. The proilem is not conoerned with the teehnioal
questions of notes issuing. In the former systan of issuing exohange
notes or bank notes, the amount to be issued was limited by the amount of
the mocumulated capital. so that national finance was also limited by
the aooumuluted oapital. rhere were other avenues of finanoial souroes from
the point of view or our eoonomioal power, but even the equipment most
necessery, from the point of view of national cefense, was not established.
Tnis was the so called tragedy of disarmamsnt. In short, we oan say that
it was the system of notes-issue tased on the theory of aocumulated
capital which ondangered our national defense.
However. acoumulated oapital is not a direot enemy of national
defonse. Ile communistic idea takes this as a oonclusion and tended to
deny utterly the accumulation of capital. The Japenese method is different.
That is to say, as regards the princi le of the issutng national ourreney.
it is right to take the acoumulated capital of bonds as a pert of the
national economic power, so it oan be a basis of the issued curreney. but
the present intention is to seek for another besis for the issued ourrenoy
besides the bonds. Let the finance of the nation have its proper reserves
and let there be no mistake in enforoing national administration.
Hore is a cueory whicn asserts chat there is one organ with unlimited
oredit whion can be the pasis of the issued national currenoy, and that
organ is the nation. Eapecially in JAPAl, the nation is not a common organ
of the people; there is tne state pefore there are people, and oredit is
enough simply for the faot tnat the notes are issued by the state. (Aotually
granted cy the state.) I think the meaning is that these notes are
different from those Issued by a government wnich is somewhat similar to
a company. However. so far as the state has an immovatle credit. it would
be a serious matter if its credit is hurt, so it is dangerous to exeroise
only the oredit of the state to issue currency. As a praotioal question

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.96)
CO-ORDINATED MANSLATION CENTER
TR 212/P. 10
CHUNOKING
29 DEC. 1944
therefore, we have to show a conorete and certain basis mooording to the
conditions of national economio power. Here comes a problen. what
conorete thing should we seek for as the national soonomio power to
issue the national ourrenoy? Now, as to the national eoonomio power.
the above mentioned acoumulated oapital of bonds is apparently a part
of it, so it would not matter if the bonde are made an ingredient of the
basis of the iasued notes. This is rather a partial thing. The previous
question is this, namely, what will give oredenee to the national curreney.
or what is its soundness as currency? The soundness of the national
ourrenoy is not its value as merehandise in the international market.
tut its value as buying power in the country. &s an apriori towards the
adoption of the national ourrenoy system, it must be acknowledged that
the exchange rate of the Japanese national ourrency in the international
market should not be oonsidered as the ohief value of the ourronoy. If
the neoessity of making the international character oi the ourrenoy its
standard is mentioned as the reaso. for opposing the national ourronoy
y stem, tais is a hostile Anglo-American thought. If there is moma"one
who oostructs the iscuing of national ourieno,. he is the possessor of
such thou nt. I tuink, thewe must bs sone relation between the theory
of international ourrency systom end chs so oalled sound finance, sound
currency, finanolal curtailment, disarmarent. the AShIGTuN Treaty, the
LuNDun ireaty. the omnipotenoe or laws. the thought of righte, cultural
life. theory of intelleot (口 性 主義 ). jaza, cinema, epicureanism, dofianee
of tradition. and the "organie" theory of the mperor. Curreney greatly
affoots the destiny of a country. so we can not xllow our ourrency to be
raised or dropped in the international excnange market, and this in turn
to oontrol the economy at nome. ven after the war is ended, we oan not
allow suon a state of affairs to ap ear again. From this point of view.
wo have to oarry out the dooision to change to natlonal ourrsnoy at any
cost. rherefore, the soundnoss oi che curronoy msans the asount of backing
by buying yower. namely by goods. hen Lagai buying power is guaranteed
within the Yen ourrenoy oirola, no matter when or where it is, this will
be the credit or the soundness of the national curreney. so the national
economic power whion san maks this possitle shouli be the basis of the
issuing of ational ourrenoy. Now, the natlonal economio power consists
of all the properties in the nation owned by the people and also man power
and natural power, not to wention goveranant property. But the national
economio power whieh serves to tack the value or national ourrency must
take the form or gools whon the national currenoy is legelly used as
buying power, irrespective of time and place. Therefore, the national
sconomio power wnich guaruntees the value of natlonal ourrency must be
goods ()). pesiaes, the preparatlon of enough gouds at the time and
at the pluce where national ourrency is turned into buying power naoessitates
a smooth oiroulating process or goou.. at a time when the prices are under
control. the goods do not necessarily ciroulate freely accordig to the

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.98)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 212/P。 11
CHUNGKING
29 DEC. 1944
rule of demand and supply, so the completeness of distributing system
must be taken up as one of the national administrative affairs in erder
to mintain the value of national curroney. In shert, the national
ceonomlo power whioh guarantees the soundness of the value of national
ourrency is the goods properly destributed to the distributing institution
or, under the oiroulating eoonomy, adjusted, with the responsibility on
the state. kost of the above mentioned things have already been carried
out, they have been put into practioe aodording to the temporary and
partial denand,only now, but as a mattor of fact, they should be resognised
as a system with historioal signifioanoe, and as the oonstruotion of
the period to come. rherefore, we have to take a step forward and exert
our full efforts, to accomplish this system with confidence in the times.
The exeoution of the national ourrenoy system and the completion of the
distributing functions are importent national affairs; after these are
aocomplished, we will be able to reform our national finance and to
increase o r fignting strength with oonfidence.
Now, we are confronted with the question of whether oapitalism
is right or not. Exoluding thooretioal ideas, if we go on with the
present industrial form. it is unavoidable that JAPAN will become another
Anglo-Amerioan oapitalistio country. Now, if we can nationalise both
finance and industry. there would te no more publio loan problem, but
then w would become communistic. Here comes the Japanese soonomieal
renovation. The center of the problem is this: if the monopoly eapitalists
becomes very strong. and use money to control politios for the self-
proteotion of their capital. there will be vices, so it will be all right
if there is no monopolistic capital. The development of industries is
found in the period of the rise of capitalism. so we have only to let
industry maintain the produotive oharacter of this early period of
capitalism. It is desirable to allow free competition to a certain
extent if not too much oapital is wasted. hen capital cecomes monopolized.
profit will be emphasiged more than production. That is to say.
capital will become financial capital. Therefore, if we allow the
accumulation of capital as long as oapital does not become monopolized
finanolal capital. and shirt those whioh have alread, become finanoial
capital into goverament organizations, restrain the rampanty aetion of
tho eapitalists, and use their capital acoording to the purpose of the
government, that is to say. if we oan control monopolized capital, we
would be aule to kee, the development of production as it was during the
rise of oapitalism.
The problem is: Can we or can t we control monopolized capital?
The public loan bonds usually go into the hands of the big capitalists

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.96)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 212/p. 12
CHUNGKING
29 DEC. 1944
or the monopolistie finaneiai capitalists. In suoh a case, the
monopelistie finaneial capitalists would be the most powerful oreditor
to the government. and with their position as the king of industrial
oiroles, they ean aoquire the position of an influential speaker on
national administration. this is the chief oharacter of sueh capitalistie
countries us klraIn and AMERICA. In muoh countries, the govermment does
not possess the real power to control the monopolistio capitalists.
If ve put the national ourronoy system in praotiee and abolish
the national loan, our nation will be liberated from debt, and will have
the power to oontrol the monopelistio capital. So long as we can exert
our oontrol on the monopolistio capital. and make it come under a
government organ, we may ot ourselves at ease and allow the accumulation
of capital. If we go on with the national loan and bank notes mystem as
we are doing today. no matter now muoh pinehing c∞ntrol we impose on. the
acoumulated capital will still become monopolistio, the developmont of
the industries will be restrained. and the national administration will
also be controlled by finanoial capital. Here grows the communistio idea
which does not allow any acoumulation of capital. Therefore, the only
apriori method of keeping a permanent development of industry and to
prevent the growth of oommunistio idea is to abolish the national loan
and change the bank notes into national currenoy. This is the foundation
of the Japanese oontrolled econony.
The execution of this matter will not arouse any uneasiness among
the people, neither will it cause confusion in eoonomic oiroles, beceuse
national ourrenoy oertainly has a better credit than the bank notes.
and the deut of the bank will be guaranteea by the government. only
tuose people with Anglo-Amerioan ideas and a defianos to our national
constitution will oppose. ro atiain the full development of industries
by this met od is the only way to overoome the Anglo-American eeonomic
power of manopolistic capitalism.
The construotion of the upper levels of finanoial organizations
will be onanged a little if national currency is issued and the national
loan abolished. fhe national treasury will not only be responsible for
the affair conoerning the budget. but will also be responsible for the
issuing of n tional currenoy and the maintenance of the soundness of
ourrenoy. The Nippon Bank will lose its qualifioation as a notes-issuing
bank, but it will be responsible for the administration of ourreney.
P
However, there is not muoh differenoe between the new system and the present
systom practioally. Only the loans of the Mippon Bank, becomes the

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.98)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 212/p. 13
CHUNGKING
29 D00. 1944
mational loan and the Nippon Bank notes become the national ourreney.
and there is no neeessity to do the printing over again during war time.
The signifioanee is in the liberation of the country from its natiomal
loan, and the addition of a new responsibility on the wippon Bank. The
business of the Nippen Bank, wili be to direct guidanoe in the ciroulation
field () and the oontrol of resourees will be added in order to
maintain the soundness of the curreney. The interest of the bank loan
will be an important element for the bank to utilize in this sense. At
present, the Finance Department is in oharge of finanoe, the Agrioulture
and Forestry Dopartment takes eharge of agrieultural produotion, the
Ministry of Commeroe and Industry takes oharge of industrial and mining
enterprises, and the Department of Home Affairs administers in the
distribution field. Eaoh of them has its own standpoint as to the
aupervision, the direotion, and the control on the affairs they are in
oharge of. These is no united or oombined polioy and guidance in the
whole oiroulation field. How oan one expect the maintenanoe of the
soundness of curreney then? There is absolutely no government institu-
tion for tis aphere exeept the meeranioal control of the planning Board
wnioh is a mere patohed up organ. Therefore, the Nippon Bank has to
bear the brunt of currenoy administration, and be direotly responsible
for the administration of resources at the same time. Now, the Nippon
Bank must superintend ail the storehouses throughout the oountry. and
manage soms monopoly enterprises. Here originates the new responsibility.
of the administration and control of the storehouses besides the treasury.
namely, to control things besides money. As to this responsitility, the
Nippon Bank appears to be the best one to take it up. better than any
other government institution. This is because whenever things move.
money moves et the same time. There are mere supervising and direoting
adminietration,. based on laws, in other government inetitutions. but in
the oase of the Nippon Bank. when it superintends the banks and store-
houses through all the subordinate finanoial organizations, taking
advantage of the practicalness of their business. and supervises and
direots these banks and storehouses with economic activities, it will be
atle to control the moving of resouroes most effeotively and properly.
of course this job oan not te done only by the present banks. but if wo
will look lor able personnel from various fields and set up an adequate
oonstruotion and organization. the job in that sphere will not be brought
to a standstili. As I am going to mention in the seetion about industry.
when the present sontrol by government institution is abolished. and the
old end new syndioates of the plutoorats transformed to government
organisations as controlling syndicates; when all the big, medium, and

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.98)
CO_ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
R212/P. 14
CHUNGKING
29 DEC. 1944
amall enterprises are put under the syndioates according to their oategory
and all the controlling business left to the controlling myndioates, I
believe produotion will surely inorsase, and distribution will also
become mooth.
The storehouses of the whole oountry, whioh will be put under the
superintendence of the Nippon Bank, ts different from the storehouses of
today. They will be momething like the agrioultural storehouses with
their funotion further expanded. They will purehase nd sell resourees
according to prices fixed by government poliey they will also take charge
of the management and preservation of resouroes, issue securities of the
storehouses, and take part in their finance, so the organisation like
the Industrial Equipment Managing Aasooiation ()will
certainly be absorbed by the business of the storehouses. As to finanoe,
it is a matter of course that the storehouses will do their business
under close oonneotion with the looal banks.
The Nippon Bank has another importent responsibility. That is
the writing of report: about the above mentioned omergenoy tax. As it has
been mentioned before, the tax system is to be so used to maintain the
soundness of ourreney, so, aspocially in the spheres in whioh temporary
taxes are to be collested, the Nippon Bank can make a report, and levy
a oertain amount of taxes. As to speculation like profiteering, buying
up things and hoarding, we don't have to wait for legal sanotion; we oan
possibly restrain and sst them right by imposing taxes in large amounts.
Besides, it will be still more effeotive if we can impose an emergeney
tax by property requisition (). we can also restrain with ooonomioal
methods the underground activities of the so-celled buoket shops()
in the oase of the establishment and amalgemation of enterprises. In
short, the power of the laws alone is not enough ( =
a long whip can not reaoh the belly of a horse). We should induse,
restrain, end direot economioal behavior.
As to the rolation of the national treasury to the Nippon Bank.
the national treasury is the supervising government institution tosaras
the business of the Nippon Bank, but thore is no relation arising from
the issue of loans between the national treasury and the Nippon Bank.
There is only granting and giving from the national treasury to the banks,
and only contribution ( y payment to authorities) and payment from
the banks to the national treasury. The state is always a superior. The
Nippon Bank will surely get rid of the oharaotor of an undertaking for
profit and will be made into an organ for carrying on business in place
of the national treasury.

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.98)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 212/p. 15
CHUNGKING
29 D80.1944
The Controlling Syndioates
As it has been mentioned before, the chief point of the establish-
mont of Japanese industries is no other than the maintenanse of the
produstive onaraoter of our whole industrial eiroles during the rise of
oapitalism and the realisation of a country which can prevent the menopely
of eapital. It will be satisfaotory if we can help and encourage the
establishment of new industries with inventive deviees on one hand, and
restrain with the national right the oapitalisits from using the tremendeas
industrial capital rampantly on the other hand, and lead their eapacity
of industrial management into the control of medium and amall mubordinate
industries under the government.
The basis of this thought is not liberalism. neither is it
totalitarianism. It is based on a Japanese idea which may be ealled life
econony with a continuous proeess of the ciroulation of capital and the
uptringing of industries. The trees and grass suok up nurition from the
earth to keep a luxuriant growth of the branches and leaves, and develop
into green forests or & grassy fields. At the same time, they never fail
to drop branehes. leaves. and fruit on the ground every year for the
preservation of the fertility of the earth and the propagation of their
seeds. There is a continuous process of life. It is right for the
tremondous industrial capital to follow the control of the state, return a
share of its profit as fertilizer to the people, whioh is the earth of
the state, through tax payment, and use the rest for expansion or repro-
duotion and the upbringing of the goneral medium and mmali industries
without letting the industrial capisal become monopolistio capital
restraining the finance of the state. Monopolized capital does not wish
to return its branohes, leaves, and fruit to the earth; it deems the bonds
and finanoial profit as its life, so its destiny would be withering and
death after it suoks up all the nutrition; but in attempting to esoape
from death. it is going to suok up even the earth itself. The present
World War is brought about by BRITAIN and AERICA in their notorious
struggle of mueh kind. Communism is equal to a prinoiple which denies
the natural law of the growth of branohes and leaves of trees and grass
and the ripening of fruit, but thinks that trees and grass can be made
artifioially and fruit is available thereby. The truth exists neither
in the parts nor in the whole. It almost always exists in its prosess.
wo want to bring into reality a country in whioh the industries are
always in a prooess of development, with the medium and smell indmstries
duly brought up and the powerful capital restrained, in whion the oapital
is always ciroulating both upward and downward, so that a full dovelopment

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.97)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
 222/p. 16
CHUNGK ING
29 DEC. 1944
of the whole preduetive oapaeity becomes possible. The sconemy of
Japanism is supposed to maken the mutomatie produetive ability of the
people, and it surely has little relation with the management of industries
by the government. Here, I want to make it elear that the contrelled
soonomy, which looks like a rebaked communistie theery, is absolutely not
Japanim.
In short, the center of the problem is hew we ean prevent the
monopolization of eapital. To prevent the monopolisation of capital is
different from cheeking the inerease of capital. The signifieant point
is in the flowing baek of a part of the aooumulated oapital through the
state to the people as their buying power so that there would be a balanee
between the capital and the market, and the inerease of oapital is rather
desirable for the sake of industrial development throughout JAPaN. This
point is apt to be misunderstood easily. so I lightly montioncit.
konopely clone is bad. simplifieation with no purpose 1s also a matter
we have to pay attention to avoid. In the case where oapital 1s
aooumulated, and a number of enterprises are established under the
aooumulated oapital, it will be ali rignt if the government aoknowledges
it legally as a controlling syndioate, change its money-making oharaoter
to a oharaoter cenefioial to the state, put it under vertain regulations
in olese conneotion with the government, and supervise and direet it.
The syndioates of the plutoerats take a oertain form of their own and
call themselves the General Conter of MIrsul or the Head Office of
Ml'subIshl. It would be more desirable if the govarnmont would take a
step forward, make them into organizations benefioial to the nation:
based on national laws, and fix a most proper relation botween the nation
and the syndioates. As to the nowly risen plutocrats, the governmont
oan also aoknowledge legally the suitable ones as oontrolling syndioates
and let a number of them develop into powerful controlling syndieates.
It 1s not wise to let one or two plutoorats expand without limitation or
beyond the power-of the government.
Tho contents of a sort of laws for the oontrolling syndioates 1s
possibly somewhat as follows,
1. Te controlling syndioate (will be called merely syndicate
in the following paragraphs) takes oharge of the control and
guidance on all matters concerning eapital, materials, personal
affairs, labor and technique for the enterprises under its control.
2. Half of the profit whioh the syndioate gots will be paid to
the government as syndioate tax. However, the profit is not

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 212/P. 17
CHUNGKING
29 D50. 1944
limited quantitatively. It is limited qualitatively and is
considered as the barometer of produetion.
3. The government shows the eategory, standard, and quantity in
the srder of their impertanee to the syndieates, it may erder
the syndieate to produce a sertain kind of goods or limit and
foroid the produotion of certain eategories.
4. The government may give subsidies to the syndieates.
5. In using their own oapital, the syndioates have to ask for
the general approval of the government.
6. The syndioates must not use their capital for politieal
purposes.
7. The relation between the syndioates and their subordinate
enterprises may be olassified into the direct lined, the quasi
direct lined, and the by-lined with conneotion in contraots.
but the syndioates are giren a complete controlling right on
their sybordinate enterprises.
6. In order to maintain ndjustment on materials, laber, and
teohnique with other syndioates, the ayndioates hafé to allow
members to form a oooperative oommittee of the syndicates.
Tho government is to superintend this committee.
9. To provide rules of punishment for cases when the syndieate
act against the law.
I think the laws for the syndioates will possibly be something
like these, and I believe when sueh laws for the syndioate are carried
into effect. the ontrol will certainly be simplified and the produotion
will also be inoreased.
The polioy of the establishment of controlling syndicates ought to
hold in esteem the sharucteristies of each syndioate, and let the
syndioates share the industries of various fields. Nevertheless, it
is also good to let a few syndioates engags in the same enterprise com-
petitively. from the point of view of putting stress on inventive devices.
of course it is necessary not to use metariels too freely.
In wartime, when materials and labor are ineufficient, it is
possible that all the big. medium, and small enterprises will put
themselves under the control of a certain syndicate. But, when there

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.97)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
29 D1C. 1944
 212/p. 18
GNDNGKING
Is a little surplus in materials, labor, and capital, there may appear
some small but independent enterprises. At suoh a time, we eught to
weleome the birth of new medium and mall enterprises. for in them w
can expeot inventive power and new deviees of management and the growth
of new syndioates. the fandamental poliey of direoting indastriee mmst
restrain the old and deorepit syndioates and plan for the industrial
develepment of the whole country.
Now, taking the establishment of controlling syndioates for
granted, let us study this question for a while from the praetieal side.
Let us think what kind of syndioates will be formed in JAPAN today.
The Mitsui, Mitsubishi, and the Sumiteme are firmly entremehed,
but these of tho second and third olasses will cause problems.
sinee we stepped into war, these have been quite a mumber of
enterprises with national capital in whioh the government has poured
money, so we oan establish a few oontrolling syndieates through the
relation of personnel and eapital, and plaoe them under the control of
these syndicate. perhaps around ten syndioates oan be formed.
Now. the problem is what shall we do with the controlling sooleties?
The ontrolling societies are not supposed to control directly with
economioal behavior, and suon a fundamental polioy of controlled economy
1s entirely wrong. The industrial management is entirely something like
fighting in the battle field. The commander and the army must be as one
man, and measures for innumerable ohanges mmst be taken continuously.
The laborers are equivalent to the army. and the maohine and raw materials
the onemy forees. We can never know whens or where the faotory equipment,
the raw materials, and the produots in their producing prooess will
undergo what sort of ohanges. e have to take instent measures when
unexpeoted accidents or troubles ocour, otherwise the manufaoture will
stop at onoe. Besides, we must try to foresee the acoidents and ohanges
by instanot and make twofold and threefold preparations for that.
Only experience teaoh us these things, and we will never understand
them by theory. such oonditions are the same either with big enterprises
or with small enterprises. and the leading organ which direots the
1ndustries and the enterprises under operation must be as one man. The
business must be managed with a reflexive nervous system. Nevertheless,

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.98)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 212/p. 19
CHUNGKING
29 200. 1944
the persent form of pontrol is like momething with its head and body
severed; there are the doouments and the formulities of the controlling
institutions between the head and the bedy, and moreover, there are
the holidays of the government offioes on Saturday and Sunday. It
will make no sense if you have to take a vaoation of five or tet days
because of a. little obstruction oven if you want to work for 24 hours
continuously. In a case where factory A runs out of belts but has a
murplus of oil. and factory B has used up its oil but has extra belts.
there will be no trouble if the oiroulation of materials between these
two factories is made possible by one telephone oall. Nothing can be
better if things will be fixed only by formalities within a controlling
syndicate or within a oompany. However, the present condition is
otherwise; neither the A factory nor the B factory can operate if the
distributed materials do not come through the controlling institutions.
It is also the same with labor; a faotory can not work when it lacks a
single thing. If it laoks a certain tning. all the other parts have
to stay idle. It will be an easy matter if things oan be managed by
the business formalities within one anterprise. There is organie
aotivity. Under the present conditions, we don't know how mmoh temporary
idle equipment there is in all JhPan. The acquisition of raw materials.
especially needs inventive devioes most. Things we never pay attention
to ean be made into raw materials by inventive devices, but if people are
prohibited from doing this and that, inventive devices will never appear.
Only the practioal business men know these things best, they have
experionces, and are also trying hard, and none of the people associated
with the government offioes oan imagine suoh things. In short, the
management of industries is neither knowiedge nor theory. It 1s
experience and a natural talent. Many people take business management
as mere money-making, but that is a big mistake, Besides the money-
making prinoiple of the unreliable brokers, business managemont alone
is a good praotioal theory. You have to take much pains to get profit.
and it is not an easy thing. There must be strong perseverance, aotive-
dees, and profound deliberation toward social relations fundamentally.
To put it in a nut shell, only those with a natural talent and experienoe
can be responsible for the direotion of industries. As only those with
experiences of real fighting can be the commander, it is a matter of
course that the direotion of industries must be left to the publio at
large.
We have to avoid resolutely the direot administration of
industries by government officials. And, as the controllers and the

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.98)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSIATION CENTER
R 212/F. 20
CHUNGKING
29 DEC. 1944
oontrolled mst be as one man, if the control of industries is not
left in the oharge of the public, there is no other way than to put
the industries under government managewent. It is the worst system
to separate the oontrollers and the controlled. Therefore, the eem-
trolling sooieties must be controlling syndioates.
e can get controlling syndioates from two sides. That is to
say, on one side, there are the syndicates anifted from the plutoerats.
and on the other, these snifted from the oontrolling sooieties.
Those snifted from the plutoorats are materially simple in their
substance, bat precautious arrangements are necessary for them mentally
and politieally. In the first place, these is the problem in the
mental phase regarding the personnel who will be the leaders of the
syndioates. Trose wno have a thorough knowledge of the inside affairs
of the syndicates and are patriotie men, are desirable as the leaders.
rhey must understand the prinoiple of acoord between private profit
and national profit. The accord between the private and the offieial
is right. and not destroying the private for the sake of serving the
country. As a matter of fact, a good private heart is equal to an
officiai heart. There can be no absolute offioial heart among human
beiugs. Ii there is any. that must te false and would be the private
heart of suoh people. To speak plainly. the privete heart whioh turns
toward ths official side is good anough. It is right politioally to
direot the industries so that the profit system will benefit the country.
If profit alone is denied. the result will be that consumption for the
sake of production will exceed the amount of production.
Which productive capacity is the highest. communism, Japanism.
or monopolized capitalism: The answer to this question will deoide
hether we suall follow Japanism or not. In short, the leading problom
of the syndicates snifted from the plutocrats is that of the personnel.
secondly. as to the problem of the syndicates shifted from the
controliing conpanies, the problem of the personnel at the leading center
is alse importent, put there are many more problems. In the first place,
there is the provlem or capital. If ail the enterprises under the
control or tne controlling societies are amalgamated, the company will
be too bie, so we have to consider the reletions of personnel with the
ohief snare of capital as a center, and make combinationa of direet lined.
quas1 direot lined and the by-lined companies. However, the problem
differs accoraing to the condition of various industrial fields. so

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.98)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 212/P. 21
CHUNGKING
29 DEC. 1944
there is no other way than to consider our mothod mocording to the real
situation. re controlling sooieties are formed in each industrial field.
so these oan possibly be a sort of controlling syndieate in each group
of industry. Here ooours a question, whioh would be better, the
oombined controlling syndicates, or the controlling syndioates in
eaoh group of industry? There 1s muoh loft to be studied, but is it
not better for us to adopt both ef thom? I don't want to say any-
thing more about this as there is too mmoh left to be studied. If
the artificial way of shifting the controlling sooieties is apt to
bocome awkward. I think it is better to adopt this method only in
case of necessity. Ihere is a possibility of the appeurance of new
syndioates to meet the need of the period. I think the new syndioates
oan be organized this way.
It is necessary to mention the personnel aff irs of the
controlling syndicate onoe more. As the control by government offiees
has already come so far, the real condition of affairs in financial
ciroles is rather confused. The army and the government officials
may understand everything, espeoiaily the matters regarding the
mobilization of resouroes, but I don't think they know how to put
the right personnol in the right place in work. The old figures in
the finanoial oiroles may know how to put the right personnel in the
right plaoe, but they no longer know about resources and materials.
The officials of the government do not understand the affairs of
personnel awong the people. and they are not qualified to judge the
work of the people. Therefore, some officials assoolated with the
mobilization of resouces and finanoial matters must enter the syndioates
with materisls on these matters. yere we are confronted with a problem
in conneotion with secreoy. The point depends on whother the army and
the gpvernment will trust the syndicates or not. I hope the government
will trust the syndioates in any oase; and we must make the syndicates
worth trusting. But. if the army and the government will not make
great efiorts, the overnment and the people won't be atle to work as
one man. Here we need deoisive judgement.
I lave illustrated tne idea of the controlling syndicates in
a diagram. but in reality. I don't think it is so simple.

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.93)
Nippon Bank
TR 212/P.
The Renovated
Board of
Looal
Cov't
Hippon Bank
Technique
for
Gov't
Govit office
Publio Welfare
22
Head
Financial
Teohnieal
Material
Labor
Administration
Syndicate A.
Department
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION
Quarters
Department
Department
Department
Department
of Business
Syndicate B.
i1
CHUNGKING
Synd1oate C.
N
Syndicate D.
N
Syndicate D.
4
CENTER
Syndioate D.
F
29 DEC. 1944

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.97)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 212/. 23
CHUNGKING
29 DEC. 1944
Finally I will mention a few words on the problem of land.
The formation of the populace into farm villages, so that all
of the populace will become landed farmers is but an idealim. It is
more desirable to have big landlords, tenant farmers, and also pay-by-
the-day laberers. The problem lies in the peroentage of the mumbers of
these people. In view of this faot, it is a very urgent necessity
teday to make the landed farmers the baoxbone of the farm villages.
with suoh a idea, we should inerease to a certain extentthe number of
large soale landed farmsrs. At the same time, we ought to make olear
the extont of the duty of the landlords, and also give some new obliga-
tions to the landlords who receive the payment on land.
Here is an idea concerning the people's loan. As I have mentioned
in the soction on finanoe and monetary oiroulation, the defladtion of
ourrenoy dopends on the loan of the Nippon Bank. Originally. the lean
of the Nippen Bank was guaranteed by the state, and this time, the
Nippon Bak will be in a position to guarantee the people's loan, which
also wdll be guaranteed by the government indireotly. In oase we want
to inorease the landed farmers, we oan take the form of letting the
tenant-farmers borrow money from the Nippon Bank to buy thoir land, and
make the loan bonds issued by the tenant-farmers the people's loan.
With the guarantee of the Nipron Bank, the people's loan will get a
good value as seourities, so we oan lot the people have them as a means
of ourrenoy defladtion. In oase we want to bring more landed farmers
into existe lce. we oan let the farmers pay the prioe of the land with
these people's loan bonds. The interest of the public loan must be
paid by the government budget. but as to the people's loan, whioh is the
same as the loan of the Nippon Bank, the payment of interest oan be
carried out when it is woven into the policy of maintaining the sound-
ness of currency in the whole sphere of oiroulation. In this case, the
state can avoid being the direct debtor. and remain in the position of
a guerantor. fhe finance of the state will not mix with civilian eoonomy;
the Náppon Rank will be the final organ in oharge of the adjustment of
civilian economy. so the state can maintain its position as e superior
being.
Besides the case of bringing the landed farmers into existence.
the peopls's loan can also be applied to a similar case 1n the adjust-
went of enterprises. some people may say that the people's loan whieh
differs from the public loan. laoks stability, but I think the oivilian
eoonomy is the people's own responsibility, and it hus a mental effeet
in gottin rid of the old evil practices of suoking up the government
budget to uo purpose.

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 212/P. 24
CHUNOKING
29 DEC. 1944
politieal corruption is rooted in the suoking up of the
government budget. so the loan of the Wippon Bank and the people's
loan are guite signifieant from such a point of view.
The rndustrial Army-Corps
we have come to the time to put an end to the idea of labor
market, namely, labor whioh works at wages. With the oapitalistic
explanation whioh takes laber as merohandise, we can not find a mothod
of maintaining the legal personality of the people. When the war
demanded the people's porsonal service and their saorifice for the coun-
try. it was made olear that it was service rather than labor whioh brought
about good effect on production. A new definition must be made to explain
that sorvice is labor founded on personality and spirit. people oan
make a greater oontribution to produotion if they take part In production.
reoognizing the purpose of labor, and knowing the signifioanoe of labor
itself, the contritution will be wuch greater than if they offer their
labor as uxen and noraes. according to the price or the market. There
1s no need to mention that ty living a life of personality. the people
can make a great contribution in raising the quality of the nation.
lo think it is enough to reward with wages trose people who serve with
such an iaea about service, is not a rignt way to answer the people's
awakenin in personality, neither can we expeot the permanent development
of suoh a spirit of service. rherefore, we have to plan for the
establishment of a spirit of service, und at the same time, put in
praotice & method by wnion we can expect the general and permanent
maintenance and devolopment of this spirit.
When a laborer gives a good result based on his spirit of servioe,
it 1s better to open a way for his future rather than give him a
temporary reward. Now. we can think of a aystem of promotion for the
workers. Prat is to say e ought to open a limitless way of promotion
for the vorkers wnose personality and oapacity are both excellent. no
matter what kind of workers they are; they may be white oollar workere.
factory workers, or farmers. If their knowledge is 1nsufficient, a way
should be opened to them for higher education; we ought to let them
engage in practioal busin ss an get knowledge in turn, and promote
them accoraing to tneir real ability so that there won t be any stoppage
throughout their life. the power of a nation depends on the power of
talent. It is a most important administrative affair to widen the way
for opening all the putlic orfioes to talent, and the present oivil
servioe appointment regulations ou ht to be revised as soon as possiole.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.97)
C-ORDIN.TED TRAN-LATIN CENTER
TR 212/5. 25
CHUNGKING
29 D00. 1944
The promotion of the workers does not mean necessarily their promotion
into government offioials. e should take into our consideration .
the possiuility of treir promotion to goverament offices too, but first
of all, we should thiuk of opening a way for their promotion in
industrial oiroies.
Up to the resent, there have many instanoes in industrial
oireles of .eraons who wight well claim a place in a biography of
self-made men. But thess are stories of the period when free enterprise
was flourishingi it is rather diffiouit to expect such stories in a
period of controlled coonomy. and many people are losing their hope.
Is it not an urgent noed of today to bring hope and light to industrial
ciroles and boost the morale of all the industrialists? As has been
mentioned above. when several yndioates are established, and the big.
mediua, and small enterprises of the entire industrial ciroles are
brought under the syndieates, the laborers who have been working in these
onterprises will also be put under the oontrol of the syndicates. It
is just the pame as the army where officers and soldiers all belong to
a cirtain army group, and there are divisional commanders, company commanders,
corporals and second privates according to their standing. The organi-
zation of the enterprises in the controlling syndicates can not be so
systematio es in the army either lengthwise or crosswise, but it is
about the same in ganerel. Now. I think the time has oome for us to
inspire a strong spirit of service whioh ay be called the spirit of 
scldier. throughout the entire industrial ciroles, and change their way
of thinkin so that the laborers will work according to orders. We are
going to get rid of the old lacor market way of thinking which presumes
that the iaborers work for wages, and estarlish a spirit of service in
the field of produotion witn a state of mind of rushing into the enemy
line. As to tnose who have given good results. it is more effeetive to
raise their position or standing than give them mere material reward.
rhose wno  ve not enough knowledge ougnt to be sent to sohool. and brought
taok to engage in practical business again when they finish their study.
By dolng o. the consoripted laborers can become foremen, or chiefs of
seotion according to their personality and capacity. they can take a step
forward towards becoming the director or an enterprise and be responsible
for that. or even become independent and establish a oompany.
I think it is also necessery to fix an order i general for the
enterprises of the oontrolling syndicates. The standard for fixing the
the order will be based on the "effioienoy profit" which will be mentioned
later on; s to the promotion system of the latorers. we should establish

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.97)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 212/P. 26
CHUNGKING
29 DEC. 1944
e proper investigation organ in each syndioate, so that ws can expeet
justice in af airs of personnel and promote the workers based on the
spirit of aoting with an fair hand. (信) Anyway. it is positively
necessary to bring animation into the whole industrial ciroles under
suoh a plan, either by the controlling syndicates or by the spirit of
servioe. In nase of the shifting to controlling syndicates.  big deve-
lopment w1.1 be made with the spirit of the industrial army corps. and I
believe tnis will surely bring acout strong effect on the stimulation of
the peeple's morale in war time.
I nave mentioned a fow words about efficiency before; now, the
controlling syndioates control their subordinate enterprises, and the
goal of coutrol is the lowering of cost, and the inorease or production;
it is not necessarily the pursuit of profit. As has been mentioned
above, the controllin syndicates acknowledge the aocumulation of
capttal. out the purs it of profit is not the purpose of the controlling
syndioates in view of their oharacter. The real aim 1s the accord of
the profit system with national benefit; so, profit is not denied but
as an inmovable prinoiple, production is the chief purpose. therefore.
we should consider the abolition of limiting dividends quantitatively.
and limit it qualitatively. As a method for this. we may teke up the
production index () namely the index to show the amount of
the subatantial produotion of an enterprise. Secondly, we have to think
of a weight index (
 ). This index is to shor: how important
the products are to national economy. The production index is to be
aoknowled ed by the government after it has made investigations on the
results of production. and the weight index is to be decided and
published by the goveriment beforenand; as this will decide the value
of the enterprises, it should te changed fron time to time according to
the tendency of industriai airoles. That is to say we should ohange
this index properly in view of the condition of denand and supply in
order to stimulate or restrain produotion with materials. The product
of the production index and the weight index is called efficienoy. So.
thore wili be figures like 1. 2 or 0. 7. To the industriel companies,
profit multiplied by efficisncy would be their le itimate profit. and if
as a resuit, the profit is smaller, the overnment will sutsidize the
defioit, ir the profit is bigger, the government will tase the surplus
as emorgeney tax. This is a way to mane the profit system accord with
the tenefit of the nation. We hope the government will abolish the
restriotive regulations on dividend, and enaot a law which may be called
the eifioiency profit law. The national currenoy system, the controlling
syndioates. the spirit of the industrial army corps, and tne ofiicienoy
profit law musr be oarried out at the same time. ren this is done. I

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.98)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATLON CENTER
TR 212/1.27
CHUNGKINO
29 DEC. 1944
believe the increase of our fighting strength and the stimulatien of
the people's morale will be very easy.
The Association of National Service, the Community Assembly.
the Towns Assembly, and the Noighbourhood Assooiation
It is said that the modorn war is a war of thought. However.
we must admit that it is really dangerous that we have not yet completed
a people's front in this war of thought. We must fight with peouliar
Japanese taotics in the war of thought just as we do in real fighting.
It is a matter of course that they will surpass us if we adopt a method
imitating them. As I have mentioned in the previous seotions on finanoe.
tax systam, and industry, we have to adopt taotics peculiar to the
Japanese in this war of thought.
When I say the war of thought, I don't mean a oonfliot between
two abstract ideas. I mean the confliot of thought whioh lies in the
base of te concrete polioies being carried out. In a real war of thought,
the politioal measures expressed in the conorete polioies must fight it
out. The parliamentary system, the local autonomy system, the politioal
parties, the Association of National Service, the Assooiation of
politioal support, the youth corps (  ). the various partriotic
associations, various companies, the social work association among the
people, and the official extra-curriculum bodies are a series of organs
of the people, but are they formed by a entirely Japanese mothod? of
course sone imitations may surpass the original artioles, and some of
these organs wignt have done their part in the formation of the home
system. However. the proulem is, that it is absolutely necessary to
be suporior, and the national strengtn oi JarAn must be promoted into the
nighost level. Ine thought which taxes these organe as useful is
defeatism.  ere oan be victory only when we feel we have done more
than the maximun. ability in eaeh of us.
The series of organs mentioned, above have reaohed the stage of
fulfilling their missions of uniting the civil and military services.
They have come so far that we can not expect any more from them. Now.
we need another step of progress, it is possible, and we have come to a
time to wake our final settlement. One unohangeable point in our future
work is to abolisn the official and civilian organs which are too many
in number. It is an urgent matter for us to adjust the offioial and
oivilian organs now with a prompt deoision to cut off our old relations
and ciroumstances as we did in the adjustment of enterprises; this metter

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.98)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 212/P. 28
CHUNGEING
29 DEC. 1944
has a close conneotion with the final touoh of the adjustment of
government offices. The government offices which made the people consent
to the adjustment of enterprises for the sake of inoreasing the fighting
strength will certainly oarry out tho djustment of government offices.
As the first step. the government must adjust the entire oivilian bodies
and turn them towards the direotion of inoreasing the fighting strength,
and simplify the system of orders, and also quiokem the issuing of
orders. So, the last combined body or organ among the people would be
the Assoclation of National Service, a people's organization of the whole
country with the oommunity assembly, the tovn assembly and the neighbour-
hood assooiation as its fundamental units.
The adjustment or abolition of the various bodies anong the people
to form a people's national organization has its importauos in wiping
out the practical basis of rebelllous thoughts. If we can strongthen
the power of the cownunity assembly and let it absorb all the other
bodies, rebellious thought in the farn vi lages will be wiped out, not
to mention the effect of strengthening the town assambly. The community
assembly vould become a basio administrative organ, and it can see olearly
the condition of porsonal affairs in the community, so there will be
no room for intriguss. The various organizations of the peoples' bodies
have taoir controk organs in the center and these central organs all
have some sort of relation witn a certain government offioe, so they can
1ssue any order to the local organs they wisn to, beoause they have the
advantage of being related with a government office. (having
the bamboo hat on) Moreover, looal administration goes only as far as
the rights of the Ministry of Home Affairs are conoerned; it is really
dangarous when it comes to the rights of police administration, but we
oan not help it at all. We can say the same thing in town assembly,
only the populace in a city is more dense and complicated than in a village.
so things won't be so simple. But if the town assembly can absorb all
the organs, the activity and scope of rebellions thoughts will also be
narrowed down a great deal.
In short. it is important to recognize once more the community
assembly. town assembly, and the neighbourhood assooiations as the first
line in the front of the war of thought, to strengthen and expand them
thoroughly, and establish a people s organization whioh can express
concretely our national constitution. As to the youth corps, ir we oan
make an exact estimation of its character of thought, and attach it to
the people's organization as guerrilla forces of thought, the battle
front of the war of thought would be formed. Nevertheless, the youth
corps as it is today is no good; thare is enough possibility that it will
bring about negative results.

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.98)
CO-ORDINATD TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 212/P. 29
CHUNGKING
29 DEC. 1944
Up till now, I nave mentioned the negative side of the town assembly.
community esseably and the neighbourhood assoolations in the war of
thought; now the community assembly. the town assesbly. and the nsigh-
bourhood assouiatfons are all able to play a good role in guaranteeing
the people': living. Their cffectiveness has already been recognized
today. but if we oan take another step and utilise them for the sake of
our nation, we would be atle to guarantee a firm war time living for the
people whion wili be unsurpassed in the world. For example, if we oan
control the supply of food completely by strengthening the community
assembly, there would be no more blaok markets for food. Besides. there
are many metuods for the inorease of produotion within the sommunity. I
believe tuis is the true promotion of the essence of our national spirit.
Not only the war itself demands the simplifioation of the people's
war time life; for the Japanese people wno have been greatly influenoed
by the An lo-American culture to construot a high living oulture really
Japanese, and for them to go baox onoe more to their starting point. a
thorough simplification of living is desirable. However. that must not
be a return to the reign of MElJI, but a simplifioation fully utilizing
the experienoes and knowledge of today. There is no need to mention that
the enphasis must be placed on the foundation of the restoration to the
national and the original racial living principles.
The ohief point is to adjust and strengthen thoroughly the
community assembly. the town assembly, and the neighbourhood assooiations
and establish a reliable basis for the people's living.
• It is time to make the idea of trade union which is an imported
idea of pure Jupanese origin and utilize it. Sesides, JaPAn has had an
@xcellent foundation since the creation of the Japanese Empire. That is
to say we nave to pay attention to the modern utilization of the community
assembly, und the town assembly, treating them as proteges of a tutelary
duty, in other words, to absort all the business of the various people's
vodies like the trade unions into the community assembly and the town
assembly. The Associetion of National Service must bring together the
central organizations of tnese absorbed unions and bodies, and become
a realy powerful organ. rherefore, as the last step, isn't it right
to ohange the organization of the Association of National service and
make the comaunity assembly and town sssembly its mombers? As far as
local administration is concerned, the community assembly and the town
assembly are under the supervision of the Ministry of Home Affairs. but
their business is supervised by all the government o!fices coneerned.
As it has been mentioned above, the purpose 1s to dissolve the surplus

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.98)
CO-OHDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 212/P. 30
CHUNGKING
29 DEC. 1944
bodies and to simplify the system in all matters. Lot us take a trade
union (the JAraN Agrioultural Sooiety) as an example and make a study
on it for a whils.
The fundamontal organs of the trade unions are to be absorted by
the community assembly and town assembly. and among the higher organizations,
those sonoerned with finance and industry can be made into a controlling
syndioate as the combined monopoly institution of daily necessities. That
is to say, to reorganise the industrial unions namely, the trade unions.
and make them into a syndieate for the combined monopoly of daily
necessities, and into the economioal departments attached to the community
assembly and town assombly. However. the economioal departmentsof the
community assembly end town assembly are combined progressive bodies of
the localities towards oentral government, just like the united assoeia-
tions of the industrial unions in the "do" (). "fu" () and "ken"
( ), ( do, fu, and ken are different classifications of provinoes).
so these is no need to establish new organizations; we only have to take
over the  resont united associatlons of the industrial unions as they are.
Besides, the controlling companies and the controlling unions will all
become uscless. Only the relations with the local government are unified
on the basic points, and business will become simyle, and the system.
sound. The cooperatives in the oities will also be absorbed by the
oonomioal departments of the town.
There have veen many disoussions about the smoothness of distribu-
tion, consumption. and produotion is regard to the people's living, and
all these disoussions reaoh one conclusion, namely: why don't we utilise
the industrial unions? The industrial unions have groin up through
many years for tne solution of such protlems, and they do possess enough
real strength, the reason that they nave not been fully utilizod 1s
because they are cased ou the socialistic idea of trade union. However.
thiags do not necessarily fit with our national constitution at the
beginning. Te gronth of the platocrats and the development of the
industrial unions were all based on imported ideas. and it is also the
same with Confuoianiam, Buddhism, and natural soienoe. The important
point lie, in the mothod for pioking up the good points for the use ef
the development of our Imperial Empire. That is to say. how oan we set
thom right based on ideas of national ori in? All depends on this point.
It is not a Japanese spirit to exclude the things which have grown up
through much diffioulty.
When we adjust and strengthen the community assembly and town
assembly. we had better adjust the original syatem of the shrines
throughtout the country aucording to the districts and professional

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.98)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
T 212/p. 31.
CHUNOKING
29 DEC - 1944
pheres in the greater nioipality, (do" (). ken. "kyo(),
as the eenter, make olear the signifioanoe of the tutelary deity, the
Ged of Eartn). and the God of Proteotion (), fix the progrem
of festivale to be given aocording to their traditions and mohieve the
final goal of national spirit. At the same time, it is desirable to make
the office-bearers of the oommunity assembly and the town assembly the
sole representatives of the proteges of a tutelary deity, to spread the
idea of utilizing the neighbourhood assoclation based on family spirit.
establish noly storehouses and country storehouses subordinate to the
shrines at the same time, and with the contribution of materials by
cooperative work and curtailment as a foundation, oultivate the virtue
of self government and mutual and by preserving goods for an emergeney.
and manage the exchange of unnecessary things and the mobilization of the
resouroes in stock. The shrine is the spiritual center. but at the same
time, we hope to make it a means of stimulating voluntary contributions
in order to arouse moral principles throug: materials. In order to
improve the colleotive life, it is necessary for the modern people whe
have a strong ides of rights to oultivate a oustom and stress the spirit
of voluntery contribution and onivalry. For this purpose, it is botter
for us to tet help from the shrine. In the case of an emergeney. no one
can deny that the existence of the shrine will become most important.
In ordinary times, we don't pay mmoh attontion to suon matters, but this
happens very often. e have to recognize once more the important position
of the shrine in the community and the town. The program of the adjust-
ment of the oomaunity assembly and town assembly will havs many items
in it. but I will mention only a few which I have notioed. The plan for
the oities wil. probably differ from that for the villages. I shall
state a few points ere oommon to both.
The Essential points for a Community Assembly and Town Assembly
i. The president should be an elder. sooially prominent. The
official residence of the president muet be quite big so that any body
oan pay a visit day or night. It is important for the president to pay
attention to the rievances of the people in the community or town.
2. To establish departments as listed below in the assembly. and
appoint a director for each department. A director may be responsible
for severai departments at the same time.
The Department of General Affairs -- business, mocounts.
personnel, regular meetings. festivals.

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.97)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 212/p. 32
CHUNGK ING
29 DEC 1944
The Economßesl Department -- production, supply. distribution.
finanoe, mpleyment, savings.
The Departmont of kalitary Support -- applieation for
oonscription, entering barraoks, returning from the front, the
wounded and the siok.
The Department of Sooial Affairs -- maintenance of health,
rygiene, training, service movement, oooperative work.
Women Dopartment -- business in conneotion with the JaPAN
women Sooiety.
Youth Department -- business in conneotion with the youth oorps.
Lator Department -- business in oonnection with the Industrial
Service Corps and the Commercial Service Corps.
Department of Defense -- business conoerning fire fighting.
air defense, and disastors.
3. To appoint a few secrstaries in each depertmont, and make one
of them responsible for the business of his department in the assembly
office.
4. Appoint several souncillors in each department end make them
the members of the counoillor meeting in the assembly.
5. Appoint one business direotor for the assembly office, one
business onief for saoh department, and business managers under them.
6. get up a regular meeting in the asssmbly, and make the
directors of the neighbourhood assooiations its mombers. The regular
meeting is for tne discussion and decisions of the tusiness of the
assembly through a form of disoussion and unanimous deoisior.
7. urganize a oouncilior meeting in the aszembly witn the
counoillors, nominated by counoillors in each department, and the
president as its aombers. The counoiliors are to answer the inquiries
of the prusident.
8. fhe community essembly and town assembly are autonomous bodies
with the rignt of economical behavior.

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.97)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 212/x. 3
CHUNGKING
29 DC 1944
9. The supply of a oommunity is to be done through the community
assembly; the assembly is to reoeive the money and open a way to take
oare the finance for the producers.
10. Tue purohasing of goods of the shope iu a town is to be done
by the town assemtly. and a way must be opened for the shops and the
consumers in the town to receive financial support from the town assembly.
l1. Ihe bousoholders in the community and town have a duty to pey
membership fees for supply and distribution, and the assembly is allowed
to oharge extra fees under certain limitations. and make use of these
fees for purposes identical to mombership fee.
12. ytilize the community assembly and town assembly to lighton
the burden of the housewives.
13. The president and staff of the community assambly and town
assombly have to be aoknowledged by the supervising government offioes.
I think the plan would be something like this, and I believe we
oan inorease production, wipe out the black market, and conciliate the
people by carrying out this plan. he must remember that the strengthoning
and adjustment or the community assembly and town assombly are the most
important nd urgent aaministrative aifairs.
when the community assembly and tonn asseably tecome the funda-
mental unics oi tne Association of ational service, tho organization of
its headquarters must also be so cnanged as to meet tha new situation.
That is co say. tne departnent in che co. municy assembly and town assembly
will take teir central departmencs as their headquarters. Therefore,
the various osdies under tne control of the Assouiation of Hational
Servioe will all be dissoived. and Decone the departments under the
headquartars of the Assooiation of jational service. The organization
of the branch departments in the greater municipality. do, fu, and ken
will also be the same. By absorbing the industriul unions, business
conoeming the production distrilution. end consumption of daily necessities
wiil be added to the National Service ovement. so it is quite certain
that this movement will become more perfect. The existenoe of an
Assooiation of Netional service which has nothing to do direotly with the
practical life of the people has hardly any sense.
Things can be settled only when the Assooiation of Mational Service
will turn into  national organization with the community assemoly and

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.96)
CO-ORDINATED IRANSLATION CENTER
TR 212/P. 34
CHUNGK ING
29 DEC 1944
town assembly as its fundamental units, and acquire the substanoe of the
people's living by absorbing the industrial unions. This is what is
called "fortification benind the gun."
Conolusion
€
so far I nave made a general survey about finanoe. monetary oirou-
lation, tax system, industry, labor service, enterprise, and people's
organization. The basis on whioh I expressed my opinions is no other
than the manifestation of our national constitution. The manifestation
of the national constitution must not end with mere theory, nor should
it be limited in spiritual matters. There oan be no manifestation of the
national constitution unless the concrete policies for all phases of
administration are oarried out and their effoct expressed in faots.
There is still a long thorny way aneau of us. In viow of this fact.
I sinoerely hope that all those filled with patriotio spirit will rouse
themsolves into aotion. This is sometning whicn people witn moant
knowledge and low ability oan not accomplisn. and, moreover, the
realization of the vest thing is certainly accompanied by the greatost
difficulties. Ooly iron cast a undred times can possitly be made into
the sword for conquering tho devils.
Pernaps tnere will be onances for me to express my opinions on the
reformation of administration, the parliamentary system, the local
autonomy system, the inner policy or the assisting organs, the prinoiples
and policles for the control of the Greater cast Aeia Co-prosperity
Sphere, and tne standpoint and olaim or JiPAn regaraing a world economy
organization based on a wurld territory plan formed with a point of view
of the racial geo-politics which will be the foundation ror the estab-
lishment of the new order of the world. It will be a serious matter if
JAPay's clain regarding the present international politios has not yet
been decided in the fora of a concrete policy. If such 1s the fact. wo
shall be defeated on the stage of world politios even though we win
the war. It is time for us to deliberate calmly and deoide our whole
polioy.
Typist: N. Y. n
For C. T. C.

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.92)
(Enclosure no. ? to desnatch no. 259, March 27,)
(1945 from the American Embassy, Chungking,China)
1n 238
12 JAN. 1945
ACT ION: O.W.I.
LFO: F.E.A
SS Major STEVENS
mbassy —
- file
(ndustril conomy)
Published in 0, 1 une 1944
AY
Ly UA (大 逢), Governor of 1OKY0-TO
vacuation:- Phe evacuation of the population has been
encouraged since tne beginm ing or this year. All officials con-
cerned re study in ways and means for the evacuation.
It is expected that by the end of uly, the clearing away of
buil ings will be comoleted w ithout any interruption. Vith an
approprlation of Yen 7o,, , fifteen offices (事 業 所) have
Deen established. o these oflices were sent 150 staff members
from each of the  ureaus. There re s6 fire prevention zones,
40 evacuated open spaces, and about 1000 smalier open spaces.
mergeney food supply in case of air raid:- Basic food and
the subsidiary articles of diet, with the exception of fresh food,
are suffic ient for ohe montn's neede. There is a five days'
supply in each of the 35 zones, a fifteen days' supply in the
varlous safety zones (安 全 9 個 所) throughout the ro (都),
and a ten days' supply in t e ne arby prerectures.
A volunteer istribution ccrps with more than 30,000 members,
responsible for the distribution of foos, has been orgenized. The
corps has had several drills and practices and is ready for service.
Typist: Yang Chang-tsun
For.T..

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.97)
(Enclosure no. 3 to despatch no. 259, March 27,)
(1945 from the American Embassy, Chungking, China)
CO-ORDINATED TRASLATTON CENTER
TR 299
CHUNIGKING
14 FEB 1945
TRANSI TION: F.E.A./ Jean Wang
ACTION: F.E.A.
INFO: EMBASSY
-File-
KOEKI EIDA NO SYIL I TO YATS" DO
(The Iission and Activities of the Associated Trading
Organization)
Published in Tokyo
25 June 1944
Chapter III
BUSI ESS OF E ASSOCIA ED RADING ORGANIZATION
(a surmary)
Section 1 General Cutline
According to the Laws of the Associsted Trading Organiza-
tion, the business of the organization is as fol ows:
7.
Inport and export of resources and he purchase and sale
of he sane in connection with iroort and export.
(Trading).
2.
The securing, urchase, and sale of important resources
(businesa concerning the control of resources).
3.
Auxiliary business to those rentioned in the two fore
poing iters (auxili ry business)
As the organization is su posed to take charge of the
trading of resources ent she adjustront of conmodity prices
in the Greater Sast Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere, nd the secur-
ing end efficient uoili-ation of immortant resources both home
and abroad, t e senle of its b siness and activities is
extrcorlinarily lerge.
of the business of the orgenization, business concerning
trade snd the control of resources is to be done according to
a plan rade by the governront, 'or it is closely connected
with our economic fighting power.
As to he brading, The Associated Trading Organization
is sup osed bo do it by itself, but under certain circumstances,
it may let other legal persons or institutions share a part of
its busines with the ap roval of the governrent. (raragraph 1,
article 22)
In such a csse, the staff of the corroration or institu-
tion who particioates in the business will be considered as
the staff of the Associated Trading Organi ation. (Paragraph
3, article 22)

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.96)
2.
CO-ORDINATED TRAUSIATION C-NTER
TR 299
CHUNGKING
14 FEB 1945
"ith the approval of the government, the organization
can do other business necessary for the attainment of its
ob ect except the business rentioned above.
Section 2 Trading
1. Suu mary
A. The Trade Plan and its execution
The first busines: of the Assoclated Trading Organization
is the sole tilization and execution of a trade plan made by
th governuent based oon the "Plan for the Iobilization of
Resources in Greater East Asia."
Che business of the organization is the inport and export
of resources and the purchase and sale of the same in connection
with inport and export.
The overnment rakes a trade lan anniaily based upon
the "Plan Por the Iobilization of Pesources", and at the same
tire, it orrs a trede plan of execution every three months
in considleration of the importe ce of resources, and the tire
of supply tnt demand.
B. The Ordinance Por Trade Control, egulations for the Ex-
ecution of she Ordimance, and the Associated Trading
Organization
Even though the Associated Trading Organization has been
estaolis ed, trade in oup co ntry wil stil? be practical
according to the "ordinan e for rale ontrol" and the "Regula-
tions for the execution of she ordinance." However, epoch
re ing revisions wece  ade on the Ordonance for Trade Control
wher he Associated Tradine Orgenization was established, and
the hew or linanee was put into e?fe t on 1 uly last year.
Accor in: to the pevised ordinance, import and export are
to be lone by  e organization itself, but
(1) corporations and other institutions which take char e of
a part of the business of the ormanizetion accorlin: to
Peragraph 1 Article 2f of the Tew of the Associated
Trading Organivation and
(2) those comritted to export business by the Associated
Trading Organiration or institutions alreedy commit ed
to expovt business, re al owel to ermage in export
bginess.
As regards ir ort business, only those assimmed by the
Associated Trading Orgami-ation are al owed to participate.

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.97)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 299
CHUNGKING
14 FEB 1945
When the Associated Trading Organization was established,
678 articles were designated by the Minister of the Greater
East Asia Depertment as articles to be exported, and 155 articles
desimated to be inported. Later, sone more were added to the
list, and now, excliuding rice, wheat, and salt, goods all the
way from iron and coal down to towels and shoe strings are to
be control ed by the Associated Trading Organization.
Designated Districts for export:
--- Kuantung chou, (Kwantung Leased Territory) Manchuria,
C T A, French Indo-China, Tailand, and other districts.
Designeted places for imoort:
-- listricts excl ing the Southern Regions under the
occupation of our Empire.
C. The Taling over of controlling Organization.
After the regulations for execution of the Ordinance of
Prade Control were revised, 19 organizations including the
Jill and Artificial silk Exoort Promotion Co. (organizations
entr sted with export)  nd 7 organi-ations including the East
Asi: iscell neous Grains Import Co. (organi ations for a
controlling import) vere taken over by the Associated Trading
Organization. There Pter, the orgenization becene a sole
controllina organi-ation n minally and practically.
D. The Associased Trading Orsenization and Tra lers
As trading is ratser conpliected and extensive, it is beyond
the power of the Associated Trading Or anization to take
chyrro of trn line by itself. It has to utilize the real ower
and experience of the traders for the seke of displaying the
highest efricieney of trade. Therefore, the assigned export
organizations will bo al owed to te'e charre of a part of the
business o the Prading Orma ization. Certain qualified firms
may be entrustet with import end exoort business, and some
s' illed treders, with exanining coods, cleurance, and loading.
2.
Ex oet Bsiness
There ere three csses of managing export business by the
Trading Orgasiration.
A. Dir ct ex out by she Trading Organization (Direct export)
B. ix ort entrusted to traders by the organization. (Entrusted
ox ort)
C.
xport consigned by the ent usted export organizations by
order of the Trading organization. (ix ort by the entrusted
organizations)

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.96)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 299
CHUNGKING
14 FEB 1945
At present, there are 9 entrusted export organizations
(受記輸出機関)
(1) The Japan Controlling Commany or Grocery Trade (日本
雜交易统制株式会社）
(2)
The Tapen Export Promotion Co. for Leather Products
(日本皮革制品出振與株式会社
(3)
The Japun xport Association for Brush (日本刷子输出 组 合)
(4)
The Japan Export Association for Textile Material and
undries(日本鐵维屑物输出组合)
(5)
The Je an x ort Associetion for Furs (日本皮 輸出 组合
(6)
The Japan Export Association for Tea(日本 茶 输出組合
(7)
The Japan Export Associction for Agricultural Products
(日木農產物輸出组合)
(8)
The Jalan xport Association for Greens and Fruits
(日李青果將輸出組合)
(0)
The Japan Export Assocfation for Marine Products
(日本水星物輸出租合)
3. Import Business
Ways of managing in ort businese by the Trading Organiza-
tion:
A. Direct import oy bhe Trading Organization
3. Im ort bv entruste persons with the order of the Trading
Crgani-ation
In he first are, articles to be inported directly ond
the districts for ir ort will be decided by the Trading
Organization with phe aproval of the Ninister of the Greater
East Asia epartrent. In the second case, the Trading Orga-
niration s to tesimate the entrusted persons with the approval
of the Iin'ster.
4.
istricts nd Resources to be andled by the Trading
Organivation:
Ewantung Leased Territory, Tunchuria, CUINA, JAILA D,
French Indo-China, Germany, und Italy are the objects of trade
business by the Trading Organization.
The Southern Regions which a e stil? under military control
ere excluded.
As to resources to be handled by the organization, salt,
tobacco, rice, mhett, and cha coal are exeluded.
Sec ion III. Control of Resources
1. sumary
Accortin to Article 1 of the Laws of the A sociated
Trading Organization, the purpose of the control of resources
is he "increase of the total econorical power of the nation
in war tire,.... the p eservation of important resources, and
the proper and efficient use of the consorved inportant

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 299
CHUNGKING
14 FEB 1945
resources."
The important resources are as follows: (Article 1 of
the executive regulations of the Law of the Associated
Trading Organization)
A. Iron and steel, raw raterials for iron and steei, end iron
and steel products
B. Non-ferrous metals, their raw materials and prolucts
C. Textile products end raw naterials
D. Chenical products an: raw materials
E. Medicine, medical instrument and ap aratus, and other
resources used for hygienic purposes
F. Other resources designated by the minister of Commerce and
Industry
As conservation and efficient utilization of resources 1s
the important mission of th? Trading Organization, it has set
up a section in its Planning Department called the Section of
Control and Plan ing. It will be responsible for making a
corbined plan, and s illed personnel will be assigned to each
department, branch office, and resil nt agency in order to
eccomplish its work.
2. The Securing of strategically important Resources
3eßore the outbreal of t is war, we acquired a huge amount
of ilitar resources rom abroad. ow, such resources are
considered to be rare nd precious. The conservation of these
resources has been taken over by the Associated Trading
Organi-ation fro: the old Controlling Organization for Important
Resources, and efforts are eing made to supervise conservation.
3.
 The Purchase of Important Resources (utilization of
resources at home)
As we can not expect the acquisition of much in the way of
suplerentary reso rces from abroad, it is necessary for us to
na e use of or resources i the store houses at home.
Through important resources have been distributed according
to the demand of each factory, ma y factories are not being
opereted satisfactorily because of the shortage of a certain
ind of resource. It is wiser to let a few factories have
sufficient material and develop their full power than give
a lit le  aterial to al of ther and keep their production in
a stagnant condition. The reason for the purchase of unused
rosources by the movernient is to transfer the dead resources
of one factory (where production is difficult because of the
sortage of other materials) to anothe? where they can be used
efticiently.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.97)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 299
CHUNGKING
14 FEB 1945
The purchase of dead resources was carried out twice by
the controlling Organization of Inmortant Resources, but
from now on, the Associated Trading Organization will be
responsible for it.
4. The Seperate Conservation of Emergency Resources
(的散任)
The Trading Organizatio is res onsible for the purchase
and separate conservation of resources necessary for first-aid
relief or restoration in emergencies, for instance, lumber,
melvanized iron plates, nd mails. In resources used for
first-aid relief, boric acid, carboric acid, asp rin, and
oter redicine are included.
5. Control of Special Resources
Special reso rces like coal, cotton, and bauxite which
are not suitable for direct conservation by the Trading
Or anization will be put in charge of their respective
control ing organizat ons, while the Trading Organization will
be responsible for the supervision.
6.
The Purchase and Preservetion of Goods Which Have ot
Been Exported
Things like piece coods, silk go ds, silk, artificial silk,
glass, bicvcles, ceranics, china, end tea w ich were intended
"or exmort before the outbreak of this war but failed to be
exported because of lack of trans ortation facilities were
purchased by the old Control ing Organization of Inportant
Resources. A large part of these resources are preserved by the
Prading Organi-ation. It is trying to export the resources to
countries in the Grest r East Asia Co-Prosperity Sohere and
utilize them for military purposes or for the people.
7. Other Business
A. Purchase and preservation of luxuries, confiscated
enery goods, artificial silk pulp, and raw rubber.
B. Control of eneny properties.
Section IV. Auxiliary Business - manager ent of ware houses,
nanufacture and finish work of goods for export, supply of
materials for the manufacture of goods for export, and
provision of loans.
Typist: Y. Kim
For C.T.C.
11.H.B.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.96)
(Enclosure no. 4 to despatch no. 259, March 27, )
(1945 from the American Embassy, Chungking, China)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
28 PEB 2945
TH 329
CHUNGKING
ACTIONI F.E.A.
TRANSLATION: F.E.A./JEAN WANG
INFO: OSS R & A
EMBASSY -
File
FROM KAliOKU KEIZAI NO YAKUSHIN (Rapid Soonomio Developmont in North China)
SHIN Tua KIZAI rOkU BErsU Go (A speoial issue of the "Now East Asia Boonomin
published in rOKYo. 11 July 1944
IRON RESOURCES IN HORTH CHINA
preface
When the ramous Gerzan geologist kIChfnureN was engaged in goologioal
investigations in chlin. he was surprised at the fuots that many primitive oasting
furnaces were iound in various places, including the mountainous interior. and
that there were smuli coal mines sverywhere in whion the "badgerboring" methed
(理 掘 ) 式) was employed. e stated at the beginning of his report: "Iron
resouroes on the continent of CHINA are inexaustible. They are probably more than
anough to supxly the whole world. Especially in shansi provinoe. both iron and
coal are extromely alundant, so he expeotation ibr their future devolopment oan
certainly be fulrillod."
Sinoe then, many soholars and technioal experts of different countries
oame in turn for researoh, and consequently. it was found out that the iron
resouroes which hicillnotn oalled inexaustible were mostly of bad quality. that
they were sporadically distributed, and that there was little possibility for
development. However. the problem of iron in this vast country. whioh has a
population of apout one fifth of the total population of the world, furnishes
various themes of general interest and importance for researoh. together with
the problem of coal.
Now, in order to make a detailed geologioal investigation of the present
condition of the undsrground resouroes on the continent. which is vast and almost
boundless, of the waount of underground reserves and ore beds. we oan only wait
for the establiament of a special organization for investigation. At the beginning
of tne Taisno ore (1912 - 1925) a geologioal investigation station was established
in the Department of Agriculture and Commeroe in China under the above mentioned
condition. e may presume that geologioal researon on minerals in the country
tegan to step into a new era fron that time. The government engaged learned
authorities and teonnical experts from EunrE and EhlCA, and exerted efforts in
the investigation oi minerais anu resouroes. Especially wnen AnDansoN, the
Direotor of the wedisn Geologloal Investigation Station. was employed as an
adviser on mining. and wnen he suggested = study of iron mines in the whole
country in order to establish a foundation for tne dovelopment of various industries.

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.97)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 329 /p. 2
CHUNGKING
28 FEB 1945
investigations were started speedily with the approval of the central gevernment.
Inowledge of iron resourees made epooh-making progress, and a goed foundation
was set up for the iron resourees that we are going to study onee more now.
Classifioation and Distribution of Iron Doposits in CHINA
Iron resources in CHINa oan be olassified soientifioally into soven
types, as follows;
1. Contaot Deposits (接觸鑛床)
2.
Thermo-Aqueous Doposits (?) (熱 水  床)
3.
stratified Doposits(成屠费床)
4.
Residue Deposits (殘留床)
Dynamic Metamorphism Deposits (動力变質鑛床)
5.
6.
Ignoous Doposits (火成鑛床)
7. Alluvial Deposita (漂砂广床)
Among these, minerals belonging to No. 1. (contact daposits) No. 2.
(thermo-aqueous deposits) and No. 3 (stratified doposits) are resources of speoial
importanoe. s a matter of feot, contact deposits are olosoly connooted with
thormo-aqueous ds osits, and it is often diffioult to distinguish one from the other
1. Contaot Deposits
Contact deposits are the most important type of deposit in CHInA. and
almost all big iron mines in the country belong to this type. Usually, the ere
body lies in or near the contact surfaoe of granite porphyry. limestone, and
silex, and the size of the ore bodies varies from small ones which are only
interesting from scientifio viewpoint to huge ones whioh oontain several tens of
millions of tons of minorals.
The ores are magnotite and heematite, but the latter is most abundant.
Magnetite is often found in the ore beds near to igneous rocks and is usually found
together with heematite. of the by-produots, there are sulphides like iron pyrites.
ohalcopyrite, end (斑 铜 ) and sometimes, the quality of the ore itselr is
low beoause of the large amount of by-products. For instanoe, in one of the mines
in Central CHIna, experionce in the past has proved that sulphides inorease as
mining goes deeper and deeper.
This kind of ore bed is widely distributed in the central and eastorn
part of CHINA, namely. 1n Contral and South CHINA. They oan also be found in
Manohuria and Mongolia in the north and Kwangtung provinoe in the south. There
are also ore beds suitaule for mining in Shantung and Honan. Among these, the
most important beds are in the lower waters of the Yangtze kiver. The famous
Tayeh (大 治) mine is a typioal one. and in ChIn. suoh am ore bed is called
the Tayeh type of ore bed. The quality of this ore bed is usually good. It

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.96)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENPER
R 329/P. 3
CHUNGKING
28 PEB 1945
contains around 60 percent of iron and usually little phosphorus and mulphar.
Good examples in North ChinA are the Chinlingthen (金  镇) Minme in
Shantung Provinoe. the Likuo (利 ) úne in Kiangsu provinoe. and Bainbogudo (?)
百雲廟)。
2. Thermo-aqueous doposits
Thermo-aoqueous deposits are usually attaohed to contact deposits. There
are examples of this kind of deposit in Central CHiiA along the Yangtze River. Im
North ChIna and Hongolia, the existenoe of these deposits has not been confirmed.
goologioally. However, it is quite probable that it will be confirmed in the
future.
3. stratified deposits (Hauanlung type 宣龍式)
Stratified deposits are found in layers in the coal seame which bolong to
the arly geologioal epoohs, namely. the sarly Cambrian Epooh, the paleozoio Epooh.
and the Mosozoic poon.
4. Residue deposits
Typioal rosidue deposits of haomatite. limonite. and siderite (Shansi
type 2  it) whioh exist in aqueous rock in the shape of tuberoulous bacilli and
breasts oan be found in Southern Regione like Malaya and the philippine Islands.
There is no large deposit of this kind in CHiNA except what is produoed along
with other winerels in formations which contain coal in the central and southern
part of Shansi province. Important deposits of this kind in North GHINA and
Mongolia are the stratified deposits of the early Cambrian Epooh. They are
distributed in Hsuenhua (宣 化) and Lungkuan (龍 ) of ongolia and are
called Hsuen-lung type (   ) deposits. Typioal ones are the deposits in
Yontangshan (烟周). panohiapao(家) and shinyao(窑)
mining distriots in the Lungyen ( /) iron mine; therefore. they are also
oalled deposits of the Lungyen type.
The ore is haematite taking the shape of  (?) or kidneys. The
layers of the ore are extremely regular. mostly formed with quartz sand stone
and shale in beautiful interwoven layers.
This xind of deposit is next in importanoe in ChINA to contaot deposits.
sometimes. the guality of the coarse ore is below 50 poroent, but 1t 1s presumed
that the quality oan be maintained over 50 peroent if simple hand dressing wore made.
Aooording to r. rEGNGhEN. this kind of deposit has the following three
oharaoteristios.

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.95)
CO-ONDINAT D THANSLATION CANIER
15329/5.4
CHU:OKING
28 FEB 1945
1. Being the typioal 面 (?) shaped iron ore of the early Cambrian
Epoon
2. Being the kianey-shaped iron ore whion is sxtgemely rere in the world.
This kind of iron ore has been found alsewhere only in the, (?)
smape limestone of Bunto (?) ( 7" = ) sand stone in GkANY.
3. Having a comparatively nign peroantage of iron compared with aqueous
iron ore. There are very few examples except a certain kind of
motamorphosed ore iu BhAZIL.
Besides, a certain kind of the shansi type of iron ore bed whien will
be montioned below also bolongs to tais stratified deposit.
A part of the so-called Shansi type of iron ore bed belongs to it. We
may presume this is one of the important resources in North CilInA. The ore body
of the shansi type of iron ore is either in the shape of patatoes or in layers.
and not ail of it telongs to residue deposits. A part of it is considered to be
secondary formutions of siderite ore and iron pyrites in round lumps in the shape
of tuberculous cacilli or flat peaohes. We cun not classify such ores as residue
deposits. ao we must list the among the stratified deposits mentioned above.
That is to say. the reguiar residue deposits of the Shanai type of ore
bed are ohiefly formed at the potton of the layers of sscond layer Carboniferous
Epoon and are found covering the eroded surfsoe of the caloareous conl soams of
the  (?) Epoon. in other words. it is formed along the irregular surface
of the rook layers of the two epoons. The ore body. sometimes in the shape of
kidney-beans. lies soattered in the efflorescent clayish matters, or fills the
crevices of stratified lime stone.
This kind of ore bed is most widel, developed in the distriot of shansi
and nas been workeu since quite a long time ago. Great importanoe was attaobed
to it in old times becauso the soane of districution mas wide, but as investigatione
were oarrled ou, it wus iound tnut uno ore cody was irregular and of small soale.
the amount of ore was small, and the quality tad. Iherefore. it is not suitable
for working by modern mining methods; but it has an outstanding oharacteristio in t
mining is possiole with a primitive method whion reyuires no materiel, and the
native people can engage in minig at their leisure. particularly. we can call
it a locally important resource because it can supply the looal demand.
5. Lynamio metanorphism deposits
Dynamio metamorphiam duposits are a type of deposit whioh exists in the
metamorphosed rooks of the very old Proterozoic Epooh. The famous Anshan (实 
iron mine in anohuria is a typical one. and that is why tnis kind of deposit is

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.96)
CO-ORDINATED RANSLATION CLNTER
TR 329/p. 5
CHUNGK ING
28 FEB 1945
called the Anshan type. It is widely distributed in south Manohurie and the
northeasterm part of Hopei provinoe in North China. The ore is silioio haomatite
and magnettite in the sape or belts. The position of the layers of ore is mostly
regular. existing vetween sohistous coal (?) (  炭) and silix. Boually,
it is poor ore containing mucn ailicio moid. pho average amount of iron is
30% - 35%. and the sil10io ao1d is nearly 50%.
A typioal ors bed of this kind in Horth ChliA is the one near the kailan
coal uine at szchiaying (司 家营) Lanhsion ( 縣) of Hopei province.
6. Igneous deposits
Igneous deposita are a deposit of haematits produced along with granite
and bogmatite (?) ("夕//). It has been known that there are suoh deposits
in the aistrict of yiayeng (因 ) of the former Suiyuan provinee. mongolim. but
as resouoss, they have not muoh value.
7. Alluvial deposits
Alluv',l deposits are another name for iron sand, whioh is known to exiet
In the neignoourhood of I-nsien ( ) in Hopei province, in the vicinity of
hinyang (言 ) in honan province. and in the two provinces of cheklang and
pukien. it is said that the umount oi ore is quite large, but not much value has
been attacted to it.
Kinds of Iron ore
Thore are various kinds of irou ores, suon as magnetits, haematite,
limonite. and 1aerite, lut generally speaking. the variety of ore produced depends
upon the nature of the ore body. The oonnection betwoen iron ore and the ore bed
dan De ahown as follows;
Type of re Eed
Chief Ores
Contact doposit
Hagnetite. haemutite, or a compound of
the two
Thermo-aqueous deposit
- ditto -
Stratified deposit
Hacmatite, siderite, or limonite
Dyn mic-metemorphis deposit
Compound of haematite und magnetite
Residue deposit
Haszatite and limonite

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.97)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
28 PEB 1945
TR 329/P. 6
CHUNGK ING
gaderground Reserves
As to the underground reserves of iron in CHINA, statisties made publfe
by the ChINA Geological Investigation Station are generally quoted. statisties em
Worth CHINA and ngolia are as follows:
pereentage as 
Žame of province
Underground reserve
to reserves of
(Unit: 1,000 tons)
CHINA
Shantung(山東）
14.340
4044
Hopei(河北)
42.179
13.05
Honan(河 南)
2.740
0.85
Former Chahar (舊察哈爾)
91.645
28.38
Suiyuan(綏遠)
700
0.22
others
20,000
6.20
Total in NOrth CHINA
171.604
53.14
For referenoe, statistios on Contral CHINa and South CHINA oan be shown
as follows;
Total in Central CHINA
116.824
36.18
Total in South CHINA
34.824
10.68
TOTAL
322.916
100.00
The total 1s around 323,000,000 tons.
Aocording to "keport on Chinese Iron Mines" written by F. R. Togengron,
a Swedish teonnioian of the ChIna Geologioal Investigation Station, underground
reserves of iron in CriNa are as follows:
Actual Ore Reserve
Possible Ore Reserve
Classifieation
Tonnage
Equivalent
Tonnage
Equivalent
of ore
Iron Tonnage
of ore
Iron Tonnage
Taikuohieh Iron Mines
29.500
11,000
47,700
15,900
(太古界鐵鑛)
Hauenlung Type of Iron
(宣龍式鐵鑛)2.800
1,500
6,400
3.600
Contaot and Metemorphosed
Iron ines (接觸變質鐵鑛) 7,300
4.100
960
480
Other Iron Mines
510
280
TOTAL
39,600
16.605
55.570
20,260

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.96)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 329/P. T
CHUNGK ING
28 FB 1945
That is to say. the to tal ore reserve in whole ChIa is ayproximately
950.000.000 tons. Aotual ore reserve stands for the ore beds in whioh mining has
already been going on, and possible ore reserve refers to deposits for whieh miming
is diffioult to start qulokly beoause of the bad quality of the ore or the in-
convenience of transportation. Therefore, the comparatively reliable figure is
the total of tne aotual ore reserve, 396,000,000 tons. There is little difference
between this fi ure and the statlstios made publio by the Geologioal survey.
Aocurding to the faots mentioned above, North ChIna (inoluding Mongolia)
is far superior to Central and south China as fur as underground reserves are
conoerned. And. in yorth CHINA. the Hsuenlungftype of ore beds in the former
Chahar provinos constitute more than half of the figure. powever, as detailed in-
vestigations have beon carried on by japanese teohnioians in reoent years, quite a
number of corrections have been made on the figures given abeve, and it is probable
that more corrections will be mede in the future. For instanoe, hore is the best
example. Secause of the liscovery of the big iron ore bed in Hainan Island, the
underground reserves of gouth ciIa inoreased a great deal and have immediately
taken a position superior to Nortn und Central CHiNa. According to the figures
given above, more than nalf of the reserve in all CHiNA belongs to North CHina.
and central and south Ciiin come next. but the present cotual oondition are that
the respeotive reserves of yorth, central, and Soutn CHINA exoeed 100,000,000 tons;
thorefore, the estimetion of the total reserve will probably be 400, 000.000 to
500.000,000 tous.
Typist, N. Y. CHEN
For C. T. C.

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.81)
(Enclosure no. 5 to despatch no. 259, March 27,)
(1945 from American Embassy, Chungking, China. )
CO-ODNATANSLATN
300
CHOPRIN
15 FB 1945
ACTION: ...
INFO: OS, H & A
O..I.
imbassy
File
oh  (the Inereace r
xoductio und vatlonal rlan),
rubled in x, 20 aly 1040.
(  )
() ites   lan ed conony and Overoronded Aones.
The prtpeipal inine tndustrtee of pie country are con-
cortrste in crtato areas, and as we have already satd this
is  a meee In natlonel cufenee.ince, however, industriel
ectivitlee i a poriod of free sconory ere etmed et paking
monoy, it  nutural phenomenon thet the induntriel expaneion
is toreed to over-develop in the "our btg inductriul zonee.
This I cucy to undor tend if we glance at the tndustrtel
copeittgne i the fpur zooos. Amone the four  g zones  D
If we conelder the THy area
as tat
崎
(三)
(大崎)(本)and
" it srrutehes for forty iomoters. The
 lueton f'oras the center ie cal led the
 courtal I mustrlal relon
The price of this reclaimed
lano lo pathos lgar end despite the fact that the sater supply
is wor vey cood toe poograprloul looetton ir yo good that it
is ao mhe up or mose disedvantaes. Havine the capital
with tr yopulatton or peven mtllion as beckeround, and since
it ir conle o a conter s olities. cceneies, culture
and eo molcatlons t ra pxcellent conditionr for lodu trial
sites. areclal y  cer the contrer e peouory of the prosent,
toe pe otiar ion ltn she  evermment supertntendeney ofrice.
tho conered contso s orear feation, bocome the cort a portant
cuty er there rlel aae nt, and for tote pease the taty
pestn wos chorn wr the bost place. Furtherrore, fre the
stanepot  aintel lne the laber power and otre pover, and
fro too taoooolnt of I portin raw pator tet froy ahrooe, the
o
oot convlent.
) lul con s 
(明石)
(尼

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.90)
GO-ONDINATED THANSLATION CMNTER
TH-800 - p 2
CHUNOKING
15
(stern H) Industrlal sone in the st, 
kllomoter enolol AkaI ( ). KIsHIDA(岸 
and misYn ( e  ), whion form the geographial
U and  Ith a populatlon of four milllon. It bora
on the Inland soa, "1th cood nater transportation. oseuples
an excellent position for transporting cool and is a good
place to secure otive pomer and labor. In addition. the tme
ports of Cimlu. and r OBs make it eaey to got resourees from
abroad. west of U Ata. L.e. from A"nOaSahI to t.oBs and the
hlus-.lhanI sone the heavy chemleal industrler are orowded In,
and tne fibre Industries have d'veloped South of Osaka.
 It: COntr, COVr YOKIHI ( ), KUAVA
宫).IL (), and P.oRoO ( ), oxtonding
40 kiloneters. hir regl on has the port" ort Nagoya and
TOhilciI, known as i-porting ports of fibre raw materlals and
…oreover it i: very well supplied with motive power, water
supply, and land com unleatlons.
«itn suon favorable goographical conditlons, the regiom
has shown great development In recent years In heavy chemleal
Industries and as a center of fibre Industries.
In Northern r YU yU. a roglon 35 kilometera In diamgtez
Xnin(八中番)，L'UHnin(户火田)，nd OhIO(折尾)
forme the conter of heavy indurtrles in our country. with
favorable conditlons olose to the continent, in adrition to
being a stratogic point inland ang water com unloatlons, and
poor water sup: ly, it has become an over-crowded industrial
Zone. ihet the regIon has been chosen for the site of Industry
by businesenen is due to economlc prinoiples, in mhich the
eseontial factor in dociding a -ite is the hope of getting
prorit. That is, all enterprises have been in pureult of the
prinoiple of profit and have ohosen rites of thelr own free
Wili, and the industrial zone 1e thus huilt up day by day.
The four big industrial sones are the pleces post satie-
factory of all reglons for raking profits, and rinee every
businesaman could Individualy choose his site at will, the
sones are now too crowded with feetorles.
The decislon in choosine a site during the perled of free
economy was always made prlmarlly for economic consideratioms

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.93)
CO-ONDIEATED TRANS ITION CENTER
300 - page 3
GHUNOKDNG
and the whole objeet was to make prefits. But the pwese
ssenomie system for the establishment of mationel defense
fundamental!y different from the previoms system in the
restrained and controlled by demande of mational defemee 
are outside those of a free economy. In the esonemy of
national delence the sItes for industrial produetion eammet
be choser at will. Por the sites of the national defenem
Industries, the essential emphasls ls laid on the sesurity 
natlonal delnnee, o it l: necessary to place the important
Industrlus In places free from onexy attack. From the peins
of view or national cerenee, the key Industries should not be
erowded tceother in given areas. According to von dornelkoalts
(?), the factors in the cholee of industrial sites in em
economy of natlonel defonse are as follows:
Jot co of proruction ragion against enomy egreessions
z. co unlcuti not ce formed polygonally, avolding the
waste ur weight, timo, and motive powers.
3. cheap tranzportat!on;
4. pakine the nost of transportation faoilitles in nupply-
ino rew  aterials and provisions to new wartime pleees
or concunption.
whut he says about -item in an oconomy of national defonse
Is t at to dofond production, 1.e. the produetior regton end
the mouns of tranaportation fron eneny attaok Is the most
ssential object. The defance of the procuct!on reglon is
apecially I portant, and sites for industries ere also to be
chosen fro this point of viow. soonomlo princlples are not
of course, antiruly isnored. The trourle ls that construotiom
contradictory to round economy does not answer the demand for
the increase of essential produ tion. we are therefore, to
seek for pleces that can be zafe from the standpoint of natlonal
defence tnd whleh will at the Fare tire, not Ignore economis
considerations. From this point of vlew, the burnind questim
Is to r strei: the over-growing oitles, and at the ra-e tioe to
seatter tne Indurtrial ragion:. The 1mportanoe of provinoial
Industrlalizatlon is coubly oreat in martime.
(z) The tabliahment of Designated Industrisl and
Constraction Lones.
In our country, with its high degree of national defonse,
it har peen necided that the decentralisation of ovor-erowded
regionr end the establlshmemt of previnolal industry rhall be
put in the hands of the state. In the cabinet council of 2
July l94x, the povernment deeided on the program for terporary

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.86)
CO-ORDINATED RANSLATON CER
Th 300 - page 4
CHIHLGK ING
15 PEB 1945
arrangements about designated industrial and construction zones.
"ith thie purpose, the chairman of the lanntmg Board gave the
fol lowine explanation:
"ins tenporary arraugerort about designated industrial
construotlon zanes decidud by the cabiuet counoil today 1s
bused upon pationel planming for carrying out the scheme for
new estaclisn ant ot and expanslon of fectorles with consIdera-
tion of tho over-cronding of industrles and the over population
of tho Tour oie inoustrlal zones I: the no oland, am conour-
rontly, tor cne present, to decide preparatory pleces for
industrial construction for varlous entorprlses indispencable
to tul epanato ot production in the ho eland, and to
roadjust the oographical locations so as to ak the industrles
us, pur country has been divided into three parts,
ne  eela ated Induetrlal zone, the industrla? con-
struct or vone, dand the zone for other thinpe. In the designated
inouctrtel zons, cuch placen as the fol owing shoul be
restricted iro- any further expansion of industries hereafter:
八王
(立)even
vilin
22
食h
(琦王系)(越)
((浦
and co villages.
N a 1 county 8 cho. and ll villagos.
l besignate oneOroan prefere 
villacer
rbarefecture大阪府
Fa
(堺岸和田
中
布施）池田泉大津
other countles 1s cho, and 34 villages.
r(系)(神
L1a i (Ap, and  other cho and 9 villages.

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.89)
CO-ORDINATED THANSLATIOR CNTER
TR 300 -  5
CHUNOKING
15 FHB 1945
4. North hYusHu I o Des1gnated Zone: Prefecture of
YAU(系)H(下)，th
the exception of the r gion covering old rovouRA county
11中 村),  (小 ). Y
V1I1(清末村)(玉司村)，
(村I(见村).
creof F( 福  系)ATS
若
彬八中
君I(月,and otherno.
In ihose four big industrlal zones, the population: hes
also conce tratec ae a resalt of the Industrial prosperity,
and anone the 73 1lu,O00 population in the homeland at the end
of 1940, the population in the eities of the designated zone
nmbered 18,l40,000. In the same year, the populat1on in home-
land c1tlee ws 3,262, 000, of which 55% 1n in the four 1g
zones. in ine whole country one pereon in every four lives is
these four bi cities.
accordl gs to the temporary readjustmont, this pegion as
a doss ated Industrlal zone is os principel not to be ellowed
ay mer establlshment or expansion or factorles. hs the
chair a of the :lanning oard hes said, the new establlshment
or expansion or factoriee in the de: ignated Industrial zone
can on'y be allowed if no inoonvenienco to eir defence results.
First, the metal industry, machine tool industry, and cherical
industry, wnion are indlspensable for Inereasing unitions,
may be extenued if cece: ery for the sake of raking fall use
of the present equipment, and in case great trouble wonld be
causeu presont unitions production uy oxpansion separated
from the present interprise and moved put of the dosignated
Sone. econdly, per iseion can be iven if a businessman will
sustain reat los os oy suspondin hi business, if it was in
operation betore the :oadjustment was onforced, and if it hae
acquired legal permlesion
us the two Ioregoine exeeptlons, the latter i a resule-
tion with a ti e iait, and perrisslon would not be grented
Ior ple tr oer eonetructlon. Therefore, exceptional new
estatiistt  t or expanslon In the deslgneted sone can only be
made Jn the  ormer case. that is to cay, the only new estab-
lishoort expension in the declgnated zone is conftned to the
metal mcurtry, the machine tool industry. and to a part of
the che ical industry indiepensable for munit:ons.  oreover
permlaeion i only slven if full use 1s pede of the prosent
equiprent, or ereat trouble is caused to the inereuse of

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.94)
CO-OHDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 300 - page 6
CHUNGKING
15 FB 1948
munitlons production by separation fron the present enterprise
and moving out of the deslgneted sone. of couree, the new
estaoli:h ent and expanslon of industry are not allowed when
they injure tho security of air defence.
in crder to carry out ost efficlently the inerease of
produc: lon, it 1s planned to expand the already existing
Industrlel zone first. To expand the already existing equip-
ment is the short cut to the I crease of production for
tomorrow when chere wil be ineufrioient bullding material
and a want of tecnnicians. However, this is rather dun erous
for air cerence. uch exceptional per its are given only
sith  vtew to Lncreasing munitions productlon, while to meet
the demands of air derenee the over crowded clties must be
dispersed.
 seelilu procuctive porer in the four bie industrial
zone nouio, on principle, be suspended though the expansion
of procuet ive  ower will be pade hereafter more aod  ore
ewiftly, because or the demands of the  tate. Hence some new
place  uet be desfgnated for the pake of incroasing produc-
tive power in the Future. If the sovernment falls to state
positive eographical conditlon for the roglon of new
Industrial constructi on, rapic dispersal of industry can ot
be aone.
he installatlons, ports, transoortation facilities,
motive power, labor, water suyply, and o forth cannot by
any means be constructod ith the resources of the buaineesmen
elone.ven 1i they could be the guestion sould rerain whether
it wo le o e wise plen from tho point ot viow of the state
as a wnole. or iro the standpoint of nationel defence.
Therotore it I up te the -tate to choose and improve the
reglon Inrispennaule for new expansion. and if measures
canner be taken to introduce verlou: industries that ust
expund t present into these places, the nationel plan to
be made n reafter will moot with a great hindrances.
To o  hose roquirene te, on the o  hand, tre taus-
triul  1 arlon i to be d-cided seoeraphicel'y, co as to
choor particular enterprise indispensable to the expan-
aion ot productive power, and on the other hand, the construe-
tion re ion 1s to be determined. a logical arrangement of
industries end a coupreheneive plen of industrial vites  or
this re ion are oxpected.
(c) The vevelopment of Controlled Industrial .o Ione
The temporary arrangement for the designated indurtriel
zone and conitruetive zone is a regtonal :yeten of deciding

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.90)
CO-ORDINATSD THANSLATION CENTER
TR 300 - pag0 7
CHUNOKING
15 9SB 1045
the direction of industrial expanslon. Prom the standpoint
of the construction of a natlonal defense country, our key
Industries that are growing with high speed are contrelled
to a certain extent, but such control has not yet been carrled
Into practice. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry started
to study the regional ystem of long ago. Barly In 1939, 
irovinclel Industrlelization Committee was formed, and It
adopted officlally the resolution made in September in that
year "concerning the plan of dispersing industries to provinces",
and crre to incorporate "the plan concerning the plan of
enforce ent of redistribution of industries" decided in Decem-
ber, 1940. Then the  Inistry of Cormerce and Industry estab-
lished a oouncil of Industry and Mining for the national plan
and putlished in October, 1941. "the fundamental program of
indurtrial construction" and "the industrlal construction
reglon", and it was requlred to establish definitely the
syste" oi industrial regions. In these, it was resolved by
the Council of Industry and  ining for the national plan, as
a developesnt of the rovincial Industrilization Committee,
that a practical means regarding the industrial constructive
zone was to pe studied.
The os ential points of comparison with the temporary
arrencomert are shown as follows:
1. The establlehment of the unit reglone for Industrial
construction i: divided into nine soctions (whole country)
according to the provinclal syatom of the rovincial Relations
Council, as in the following table:
H ln H ( 道)
(東北地方)
(青森)(岩手)(宫城)
秋
(福島).
(關東地方)
茨城)(群馬)
（栃木)
琦王)(千葉)，Y
神(梨
(東海地方)(歧阜)，
静). AH(爱知)，
(三重).

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.88)
CO-CADINATED RANSLATION CANTER
Th 300 - page 8
CRUNGKING
15 PxB 1946
0. HOKUIKU JOgion ( 北 陸 地 方) —IIGATA
), ISHIKAA
(石)，I(福井)NAGA(長野)。
f. (近地方)
(滋賀)，(京都)，A(大阪)，
兵庫(秦良)。
(和歌山T
(中地方)
(鸟取)(岛根)，()
(廣)(山)
(德岛(香川(高知)
(愛爱)
(九地方
(福岡(佑賀)(長崎)，
(熊本)(大分
鹿兒島
(冲繩)
2. ne reg'ons chosen as industriel constructive zones
anould be  odernized in overy way se much as pos ible to
let factories covelop easily.
3. n indurtrial conetruetion zone, chould be choeen
under the preseut circumstancos to be eacily self-sufficient
with a prall umount of raterial and lebor, just unough to
create tho incustrial conditions.
4. incustrial construction zones ere differentiatod into
first cless reglons und second class reglons. he former ere
mainly places for concontration: of machine toel Industries,
whore is is hoped to construet industrial centers and the
lutter ar. uonsidorod as satellite industriel conetrnction
zones Tor I oustrial centers in exietence or to be built in
the inture.
The schome is divided into ceneral and local etanderde;
the former i for industrial construction in the whole
country, and the latter ie based on the goneral tandard
but is radjusted with regard to locel epeciel conditione.
The locel standards for these 9 special reglons are made
according to the conditions of the respeotive places. fiven
typoe of industry ehould be placed in given regions.

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.94)
CO-ORDINATSD THANSLATION CNTER
TR 300 - page 9
CHUNGKING
15 PEB 1945
(4) The Fundamental Problom to be Solved.
The temporary arrangement of suspending the expansion
of our four big industrial zones and Imultaneously planning
to bulld pow industrlal zones ls only a partlel arrangement
In the whole natlonal plan.
It wlll cortainly be included In the nationel plan when
1t i: complete. In making the natlonal plan, we have Greater
sast asia in ind. The plan for Greater sast asle, including
its incustries, culture, comvunioat!ons, population, and so
forth, noecs considorable tlme for completion. e must start
with a nutional plan on e mall scale.
The nevelopment of the now industrial zone depends on
the as: 1: tance of the locel people. The condition claiming
prior cousideratlon ls the readjustront of the administrative
sectlon anc the derinite establishment of the roglonal system.
Firat, the whole country muet be dividod sevoral sections"in
whlch to pioce In ustrial centors with satellite citles out-
side :o us aintain the security of national defonce.
 aterial and lasor are running short, no waeto ust
be e oum. it is pot eaey to keep up the production rate
when thy" ulsperslon of factories is enforcod. the appeerance
of a : pn: incurtrial zone requlires perfection in evory piece
or egulyment and fevorable geographical condition. The
acquisirion or raw materials and the market for the products,
motivo povar, fuel, labor, and water supply should ajr be
taken into consideration. at any rate, we : ust have a com-
prehensive lun ior the dispereion of industrial zones and.
at the so e *i e, ror keeping all our areas of industrlal
production in safety. he establishment of a comprahensive
plan, in otner words, a national plan, is e burning question.
Typist• ozet i, Chcn
For 6.?.C.

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.96)
(Enclosure no. 6 to despatch no. 259, March 27, )
(1945 from the American Embassy, Chungking, China)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLAT ION CENTER
TR 314
CHUNGKING
23 FEB 1945
TRANSLATION: F.E.A./JEAN WANG
ACTION: O.W.I.
INFO: Embassy
OSS, Major STEVENS
- file
FROM: TOYO KE IzAI (The Oriental Economy)
CHR
Published in TOKYO, 29 July 1944
WHAT IS EXPECTED OF THE NEW CABINET (a symposium)
Present:
ROYAMA MASAMICHI (鼠 山 政道)
KOMIG IWA RITOKU (小汀 利得）
TSUKUI TATSUO (津# 龍雄)
NAKAJ DMA YADANJI(牛島彌團次)
KONO MITSU (河 野 密)
KIYOSE ICH IRO (清 員一郎)
Representative of our agency:
ISH IBASHI TANZAN (石 橋 湛山)
ISiIBAShI: Let me say a few words. It seems that the Cabinet will
undergo some changes, and I think there must be various problems in
regard to the changes. There won't be any objection to the necessity
of powerful politics for the sake of passing through this crisis.
The subject assigned to the change of cabinet is the materialization
of powerful politics. I would like to have your frank opinions
about this. As an M.P. NAAJLMA is in a hurry, let him say something
first.
Rushed up Increase of Production First of All
NAKA IMA: As we have to win this war at all events, my earnest hope
of the new cabinet is an urgent policy for increasing the production
of arms especially aircraft. We must give up the annual plan and
concentrate our efforts at a speeded-up increase of production.
First, to take up the problem of resources, I think we must carry
out a speeded-up transportation of bauxite, the raw material of
aluminum, and of other raw materials from the Southern Regions.
Second, as we depend upon MANCHURIA and CHINA for many things, we
should revise the Plan for the Mobilization of Resources, carry out
an ahead-of-schedule transportation, and secure resources, raw
materials, and materiel. This is my greatest hope of the new cabinet.

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLAT ION CENTER
TR 314 - P. 2
CHUNGKING
23 FEB 1945
Renewal of Different Measures
NAKAJ MA: Next thing is the Plan for the Mobilization of Labor.
Since the execution of the adjustment of industries, there has still
been much unused labor in the cities. These men are so-called 
by-standers in war time, and I wish the government would exert its
efforts to wipe out this aspect. As to schools, only the primary
schools () should be ma intained; the students of
other schools can all be used as laborers. Besides, I think we
must make a plan for introducing large numbers of Koreans and Chinese
The Plan for the Vobilization of Resources is divided into
three parts. I think we should simplify it and make it adaptable,
uniform, and moreover, flexible. This should be done for the uti-
lization of resources; otherwise, our fighting power will not be
well developed.
oreover, there are many secret matters concerning our supreme
command. I think there are two reasons for this. One is the pre-
vention of spies, in other words, for strategical purposes, and the
other, scientific technique, or manufacturing industries. One is
spiritual, and the other, material. Thus, the secret matters con-
cerning our supreme command are numerous. If the government would
reduce secret matters, and cooperate more with the people, our
fighting power would be increased a good deal. I also hope the
government will take some measures concerning the release of war
news. I have held symposiums aimost every night with the people of
the electoral districts and asked them about many things, but they
were all afraid to speak. Freedom of speech has been denied. This
is certainly not a proper way to stimulate their will to fight.
The people are so bacly restricted by the so-called Special Penal
Law of War Time and the National Security Law that they have become
as timid as the people in the feudalistic period. Therefore, the
fighting power which could have been developed remains undeveloped
now. I don't think we can attain a sure victory unless the govern-
ment will reduce the secret matters of our supreme command, let
the people know more, share its worry with them, and cooperate
with them.
The Necessity of a People's Organization
NAld DiA: Another thing is that we have no organization of the peopl
to cope with the great war. There are the Imperial Rule Assistance
Society and the Youth Corps for the Assistance of the Imperial Rule,
but they were not formed by the people of their own will. Even
the Administrative Council (  ) is not well united. It
consists of people of various circles including members of Parliament,
but they do not cooperate. This is because the organization has
no limbs. There is no subsidiary association to the Council. The

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.99)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 314 - P. 3
CHUNGKING
23 FEB 1945
Imperial Rule Assistance Society has limbs, that is to say, it has
subsidiary associations, and its work is carried out thoroughly by
the prefectural governors, but it has no body and no head. The
head hes vanished in the realm of the government officials, and is
separated from the l imbs. I was a member of one of the old political
parties. I am not advocating the revival of political parties,
but I don't think we can get along in the present situation if we
have no union of comrades. For this reason, I hope the government
will give more freedom and be more generous in acknowledging poli-
tical associations. The people organize political associations
for the sake of winning the war but never for the purpose of losing
the war. Therefore, it is necessary for the government to acknow-
ledge political associations and let the people express their frank
opinions. The more political associations are formed, the more will
the people's organizations be developed and strengthened, I think.
Many organizations were adjusted and have been united into the
Imperial Rule Assistance Society. Seventy years have elapsed since
JAPA got rid of feudalism, but wherever you go, you still find
strong provineial feeling. This is the time when we must concentrate
the total power of the people in fighting the war, but the organiza-
tion of the Administration Council and the Imperial Rule Assistance
Society is merely a formal one; it does not permeate to the lower
levels. Therefore, it is necessary to investigate all over again
the people's organizations in both the central district and the
provinces; but first of all, the government must acknowledge poli-
tical associations.
Next, I hope the government will establish a system of sure
victory by allowing the Diet to manage things. The Tapanese Diet
has died since the outbreak of the CIVA Incident. Recently, it
has revived a little, but even in a session of the Diet, we don't
have a report on the war situation in detail. The people's will
to fight will never be stimulated under such conditions. These
must be thoroughly reformed. The government must guide the people
through the Diet, and the members of Parliament should be good
patriotic fighters and should also move in the direction of bettering
the government.
A Suggestion for Prevention of Inflation
Nutad Ii: The last thing I want to mention is the policy for a
thorough prevention of malignant inflation. What is the fundamental
reason for the rampancy of black market where prices are 10 or 20
times higher than the present official prices? It is the weakness
of political power. Ve must strengthen our political power. As to
the drawing up of the budget, the special war expenses, which are
about 80% of the total budget, and the budget for the demands of
the people are all drawn up with secret figures. We must break the
secrecy of the budget and remove the cause of malignant inflation
which is virtually the budget itself. We are spending a huge amount
of money in seven-years' plans and five-years' plans, but this is

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.99)
CO-ORD INATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 314 - P. 4
CHUNGKING
23 FEB 1945
not the time for such plans. Even in GERMANY and ENGLAND, work
which takes more than two years to accomplish is being carried out
ahead of schedule. Besides, much of the principle of a peacegtime
balanced budget, the principle of participation, (分  主 )
and the principle of local distribution still exist. I think We
ought to change them to war time principles and try not to spend
money to no purpose. Moreover, we must think over matters like
the simplification of issuing orders, the adjustment of the indus-
trial system, and the like.
To take a further step, we should adopt the policy of curreney
absorption. For this purpose, the system of taxation must be funda-
mentally reconstructed. At present, the income of the people is
flowing into the so-called newly rich class. Laborers, especially
laborers in military plants, farmers who live in the neighborhood
of cities, repair men, those who have smuggled money from SHAnGHAI,
and particularly the day 1aborers, are making 30 to 40 Yen a day.
The system of taxation on these people has not been established
yet, and we hope it will be establ ished in one way or other. We
can't collect taxes from them with the present loose system of
taxation. T am thinking of a system of taxation according to pro-
fessions in regard to this. I don't want to tell you the details,
but I think the system of property taxation should also be put
into practice. Now, income has been mobilized, but not property.
If you were not clear about property, you would not know how the
property of the nation could become the property and income of the
people, so I hope this will be carried out at any rate.
Tere is another thing which also has something to do with my
own principle. le have a lot of government property, which is only
next to that of SOV IET .JSS14 in abundance. There must be 30, O00,
000,000 Yen to 50,000,000,000 Yen. This can be shifted from the
shoulders of the government to those of the people. I think this
is also a method of absorbing currency.
Establishing a Thorough-going System
KIYOsE: As the TOJO cabinet resigned for the sake of awakening the
people from langor, I don't think it is enough to let KOIsO take
the place of TOJO. It wil1 make no sense if JAPAI does not éstablish
a final and thorough-going system of taxation, both at home and
abroad. It is a regrettable matter that we have no more elder
statesmen of the MiIoI era who were popular among the people, but we
can still have an all-star cast consisting of the whole group of
our senior statesmen.
Another thing is that we should freely make those closely con-
nected with the people members of the cabinet. We may well resume
the old system of assigning executive officers. Particularly in
the Army and the Navy, we must assign executive officers, for we can
see the reflection of the secrets thoughts of the people in the
mirror of the executive officers. I think they are necessary for
a long-term war. .

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLAT ION CENTER
Tn 314 - P. 5
CHUNGKING
23 FEB 1945
Another point is that modern war is very much a war of thought
and stratagem. Therefore, the matter-of-fact Bureau of Intelligence
can never cope with the war. Even the principal of a middle school
can understand what has been written above. The government should
assign a General Staff of thought or a minister of propaganda to
take up the responsibility of direct assistance. ....
Nothing but Great Increase of Production
KIYOSE: I have only one hope of the new cabinet. That is what Mr.
NAKAJ IMA has just said, a definite increase of the arms and munitions
on which we must stake everything. By increase of production, I
don't mean an increase of 10% or 20%. That's useless. To consider
aircraft alone, we won't be able to win the war unless we can
increase the present production by (blank) times. If the government
can only succeed in this, I won't blame it, no matter what failures
it may make. That is the only way to save our country. Fortunately,
we have enough raw materials to serve our purpose. There are 1imi-
tations in iron ore resources, and we cannot get as much as we wish
to, but we have more bauxite and bauxite shale, the raw material for
aluminum, than AlilnICh. In spite of this fact, our production is
only (blank)% of that of AlimICA. I doubt whether this should
happen in war time or not. The matters of finance and thought which
Mr. NAKAc EfA has mentioned are measures for promoting the increase
of production, but high morale is necessary Tor this. Therefore,
the best way is tc let the people know the real war situation and
make them feel the absolute necessity of increasing production. Now,
as the competition in production between JAPAN and AiMERICA is a
war, I think those people who obstruct the increase of production
should be considered guilty of hindering production and should even
be shct. If the government coula greatly inerease the production
of munitions, especially of aircraft, all other failures would be
excusable. It won't matter even if there is an inflation or shortage
of food, or the loss of the chance for children to go to schools.
Wishing for a Convincing Politics
TSJKUI: I have a hope not only of the new cabinet but of all cabinets.
In short, I hope the government will carry out a kind of politics
which can convince us. Politics which are not convincing can never
strengthen our feeling of sacrifice and service even if marvelous
slogans are made public and strong power exercised. By convincing
politics, I mean administration with thought as its foundation. You
may take thought as a very abstract thing, but it is linked with
many realistic spheres. Especially, it is closely connected with
politics. It seems that there has been an inclination to guide the
people's thought by a narrow and prejudiced concept. If we go to
extremes with such a concept, we may come to a conclusion that a
greater part of our people are unworthy people. When such a thought
is linked with realistic politics, the political tone will become
low, and it will arouse a very dark feeling among the people.

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.98)
CO-ORD INATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 314 - P. 6
CHUNGKING
23 FEB 1945
Therefore, I hope the government will guide the people with a more
far-reaching, ORAku(?)(才   力) deep, and bright thought. It
is the same with the peoples of GREATER EAST ASIA. Furthermore,
I wonder if probably SoV IET RUSSIA is not a country on whom there
is still room left for us to employ diplomatic processes for the
sake of winning the war; and in such a case, communism will nece-
ssarily become a problem. If JAPAN has the right idea, she will
never follow communism blindly, nor will she oppose it simply by
impulse. She will be able to handle communism or, to take a further
step, assimilate it with Japanese thought. In this sense, thought
is necessary for a realistic and active diplomacy. A few days ago,
the government made a statement concerning the continental operations.
It seemed that nothing was mentioned about the problem of the commu-
nist party in H IvA. Mevertheless, we had an impression that some
active measures might be taken with regard to this problem. There-
fore, we can see that even in the case of Ci INA, there is the pro-
blem of communism.
In short, we need convinc ing politics or politics closely con-
nepted with the peonle; and in their foundation, a deep and Okaku(?)
(才   力 ) thount is necessary, I think.
Rich Thought Please
SUGLiOnI; I listened gratefully to what Mr. NAKAJDiA has just said.
I think he has mentioned the chief points of our expectations of
Japanese politics as well as of the government. Mr. TSUKUI spoke
on thought especially. I also think thought is necessary for us
to fight the war, to win it, in other words, to form the GREAT EAST
ASIA CO POSPEnITY PT, and to establish the NEW WORLD ORDER.
I have always bel ieved that it is too bad to have the thought remain
so incomplete. Mr. TsJui also talked about diplomacy. It makes
no difference whether our object is RUSSIA or not. As a matter of
principle, thought in politics must be fully developed when we deal
with ail foreign countries. This is necessary for the substance
and quality of our diplomacy rather than for propaganda and stratagem.
As subjects of JAPAN, we must consider seriously whether or
not our country has a way of thought to be thoroughly advocated
both at home and abroad. From this standpoint, we can find an
example in what is usually called modern thought which all the
peoples of GhEaTEn EAsT ASIA and other foreign countries can manage
to understand. This is the fimdamental thought which can be imme-
diately materialized in the best way. In the first place, it is
the principle of science. We draw other peoples toward us by science.
We will have, as our objects, not only material things but also
spiritual and social things. It is absolutely necessary for us to
understand our enemy AvEnICA, to handle USSIA from our standpoint,
and to deal with the different peoples of GREATER EAST ASIA. I
think such a thought must occupy a remarkable position in the in-
ventive power and motive power of our people.

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.98)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR.314 - P. 7
CHUNGKING
23 FEB 1945
Observation of the Total War Politics
RoYAMA Now, as the TOJO cabinet has resigned, OYAt I think it is
necessary for us to observe seriously the problem of politics in
total war.
In order to get materials for studying this problem, I am reading
books written by statesmen of different countries during the First
WORLD WAh. In the records of the Great War written by CHURCHILL,
it is mentioned that at the end of the last WORLD WAR, the British
people haraly thought of victory or defeat but advanced straight
toward the prosecution of War. Therefore, when the trumpet of the
armistice was sounded; they did not even know which side had won
the War.
In the middle of the war, there was a lot of argument about the
politics of total war in BRiTAL, and there were also various changes
in political circles. However, as the result of inventive devices,
political activities were centralized and political maneuvers and
strategy were also harmonized in the latter part of the war. I
imagine by then, the British people paid no more attention to such
problems but were in a frame of mind to advance in the war with every
effort. Here, we can see the general direction of politics in total
war. However, as we Japanese are inexperienced in the politics of
total war we must study the way of harmoniz ing and adapting certain
points to the circumstances of our country. After all, I think the
principle'of the fundamental policy lies in the statements JAPAN
has made since the outbreak of the EATEn EAST ASIA WAR. We may
call it the idea of HArkOICIU", (  - 宇 - the universal
control) in other words, letting all peoples have their right spheres
of action, and allow ing them to live in peace. I think this idea
is probably the chief point of our politics in total war. We have
already applied this principle in the GhEATEn EASI ASIA CO-PROSPERITY
SPdinE. I think we can also apply it in our cwn country.
The Necessity of Encouraging the People to Take up Their
Responsibilities
OYAMA: However, according to our experience since the CHINA Incident
especially the expericnce of the two and a half years since the
outbreak of the ATTn TAST ASIA WA, politics in total war has
ended controlled economy and controlled politics. It is narrow-
minded to ccnsider the politics of total war in such a way. For
under such conditions, the government cannot let the people take
charge of what the government itself is not able to manage. The
people will not trust a government which fails to take up it respon-
sibilities, and their life will also become uneasy for that reason.
For instance, there are limitations in the power of the governmer
even in the food problem. It is necessary to let the people take
charge to some extent of matters concerning the production, distri-
bution, and consumption of food. To let the people do the job by

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.99)
CO-ORD INATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 314 - P. 8
CHUNGKING
23 FEB 1945
themselves means liberalism, which is only a different expression
of my idea. It is obvioue enough that liberalism alone will not
do, but this principle is also a national discipline. Ian't it truo
that we can only develop our total power by supplementing the power
of the government with liberalism?
General Headquarters and Cabinet in Total War Politics
What about specific measures? I have not studied this question
long enough, but I think after all, it depends upon the system of
the cabinet in the politics of total war and on the relation of the
cabinet with the supreme command, namely, the General Headquarters.
Here are two specific questions about organization. One is the
construction of the cabinet itself, and the other is the connection
between the cabinet and the General Headquarters. .......
In order to apply the above mentioned principle in the present
critical situation, we must achieve two purposes: getting all men
of talent in the cabinet, and maintaining connections between the
cabinet and the Headquarters.
There are two ways of getting all men of talent. One is to ask
all the senior statesmen who can be considered as clders of the Meiji
era to enter the cabinet. However, we cannot have all the senior
statesmen serve concurrently in ali ministries. We should do better
to choose worthy young men who are really linked with the people
or hol a position in the Diet. Besides, there are other systems,
like the system oi executive officers, and I think we can apply
them properly on the same principle.
Vhat is specially important is the second question I mentioned
above, the connection between the war time cabinet and the General
Headquarters. We will not only have a joint committee of the ca-
binet and the General Headquarters; we should have a council and
make it the supreme organ. In none of the belligerent countries
can we find such a vague and divergent system as ours. In order to
take a further step, think it is absolutely necessary to have
a consulting organ, an organ to make decisions.
Let Publ ic Opinion be Active
KONO: The statement about "for the sake of awakening the people from
languor" is the best explanation of the significance of the recent
political change. I think there are various aims in awakening the
people from languor, but the most important one is freedom of speech.
In these few years, the people have not been able to say frankly
what they think. They have been afraid that they might be blamed
if they spoke about certain matters. They hesitated, and tried to
patch up the surface, so the public mind has really become timid. We
can never develop the total power of the people in this way. I think
the government has al so not iced this point and has been convinced

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.99)
CO-ORD INATED TRANSLAT ION CENTER
TR 314 - P. 9
CHUNGKING
23 FEB 1945
that it must awaken the people from languor now. That is why there
happens to be this political change. The important thing that the
coming cabinet must consider is letting the people say what they
wish to and asking for their cooperation. The new cabinet must
make their way with such a presumpticn. Mr. KIYOSE said a little
while ago that the fundamental problem is the increase of the pro-
duction of munitions. I fully agree with him. However, when we
go around the aircraft factories and the ship yards, we can see
that everything is all right superficially, but that there is no
soul. What is the matter? In such a case, I think it is important
to make the people feel that each of them is responsible for fighting
this war. There are different methods for this, but if we don't
make the point clear, discussions and changing the cabinet will
make no sense at all. Therefore, the duty of the new cabinet is
to take drastic measures for this problem.
Another thing we ought to think about is the question of res-
ponsibility. no is going to be responsible? I am very sorry that
this has not been mude clear yet; that is to say, the allocation of
responsibility is unclear. The next cabinet should at least make
the allocation of responsibility clear. If it should ever make a
mistake in guidance, and do enything against our purpose, it should
take the blame itself. Otherwise, the people cannot foliow it
with confidence.
Specific  easurcs for Increase of Lation
Ko..fufnk: I don't think it is necessary to add anything more, but
I will say a few words about economics.
Though it is said that we are fighting a total war, the actual
condition is not so desirable. It is the same with economic affairs
as witn the political organ and the employment of politics about
which you have been talking for some time.
Let me mention a few ordinary facts which everyone sees and
experiences daily. In and around Tolo, the distribution of vege-
tables for one person is one carrot every other day. It would be
all right to ive this much to a horse as extra food, but it will
not do for a man.  ext, this is the problem of the prefectural bloc.
So long as this kind of foolish thing is going on, our total power
can never be developed, not to mention other matters. If we could
think it over without any prejudice, the matter would become very
simple, and if everyone could th ink it over, the system of total
war would be perfectly set up tomorrow. I will give a few specific
measures for improvement in simple words. Let us take the example
of vegetables. Distribution is not well done, not because we are
short of food, but because the method is bad. I will not mention
anything about the prefectural bloc and the purchases in the country
because everybody knows about them. The most serious bottleneck is
considered to be the 1 ack of transportation, but this was taken for

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.99)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLAT ION CENTER
23 FEB 1945
TR 314 - P. 10
CHUNGKING
granted from the beginning. There is nothing to make a fuss about
even if there should be difficulties in light transportation faci-
lities in the city after food has already been conveyed to SHIoTAME,
(汐 留) SHINJ IKU，(新 宿) or IIDABASH I，(飯田 橋) not to
mention transportation by railway. It is useless now to plan fer
anything like the controi of trucks. Then, what shall we do? We
must think of some entirely different method. I can tell you one
of the methods, that is, stage transportation by carrying goods from
one stop to another just as in the old 53-stop-system on the TOkAIDo
(東 海 道) line. By adopting this method, goods will flow from
the places of production to places of consumption. When your mind
is full of the thought of control and is confused by it, you can
never have any good idea.
Fundamental Measures for Labor
Ko iIvA: Next, we have the labor problem. I have written several
times about the abolishment of conscription, urging the government
to think the matter over. As a matter of fact, we can improve it
instead of abolishin it. But, because there have been obstacles,
we must perform a rough operation by abolish ing it. Otherwise, we
cannot set up a labor system to lea us to victory. Therefore, I
advocate the abolishment of conscrintion. e must think of a way
of raising the efficiency of each laborer rather than getting large
numbers of them. The method we have been adopt ing can only shake
society, and make the people uneasy. Por instance, laborers who
could have cone a great deal for the country in their origiual fields
of work were trans ferred to fields of lower efficiency only to
reduce the national production. "oreover, this is causing disorder
in trains and busses. In one place, houses rema in vacant, wh ile
in others new houses and rooms are heeded.
What is worse is that two laborers are sent to a job where one
is enough, and three are sent to another job where two can suffice.
Therefore, the laborers tend to be lazy. Then they go to the fac-
tories to work, some of them can get rations, but some cannot. They
work quite diligently in the factories where they can get ration,
but in the factories vhere ration is not given, they will become
lazy, and will go to the country for purchasing whenever they are
free. Some of ther are of bad character, but some do so because they
have children or are in difficulty because some of their family
members are sick. This problem can be solved by improving the method
of distribution. I would like to bring forward a specific measure
now. The method of distributing articles by the government to la-
borers as their rights should be abolished, and the government should
give the articles to factory directors, managing directors, or company
managers. Anyway, it should give the articles to the factories. The
companies should hand the articles to laborers of high efficiency,
who are dil igent and hard-working men. yothing should be given to
the lazy ones. If this method could be put into practice, the la-
borers would certainly work hard. Then there is no necessity for the
honest workers to go to the country for purchasing, efficiency will
rise also.

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.98)
CO-ORD INATED TRANSLATION CENTER
Th 314 - P. 11
CHUNGKING
23 FEB 1945
Key Point of Problem
KOIGIwA: Here is another thing which has something to do with the
problem of thought and with other problems. Recently, they have
been reducing the amount of wine made. They are going to reduce
it this year too. They are also going to cut down tobacco manu
facture. But it makes me furious because those who advocate the
cutt ing down of wine making and tobacco manufacture are drinking and
smoking. I don't want to boast, but neither do I drink nor smoke
because I think wine and tobacco are harmful. If drinking and
smoking could ever be prohibited, I would be no less enthusiastic
than others for abst inence. However, at the present time, there is
no room for us to carry out such things as the probibition of to-
bacco or wine. We are in the midst of a great war which is to
decide our destiny. Tow, we ought to concentrate our attent ion on
producing one more weapon or one more shell, in rais ing efficiency,
and in mak ing the people fight more OrakA(?) (才 木  力). It is
no t ime to think of the cutting down of wine making and tobacco
manufacture alone. If we coulā make 1,000,000 koku (石 - 39,7033
gallows) more of wine, there would certainly be a great difference
in the efficiency o  apanese industry. It is impracticable to say
that food in JaPa will become scarce if much wine is made. I think
the government must not be so stingy as to permit only a certain
number or persons to buy wine, and i init the distribution of wine
for each fanily to (bl ank) so (合 - 0.318 pint) per month. It must
tell the people not to worry, and that enough wine will be supplied
to them. Then, no man will leave his work at three o'clock to go to
a bar.
Working from  conon ic Ideas
some people say that tobacco fields should be reduced some
40,000 cho, (J - .45 acres) but the 1ength of time needed for
growing tobacco exclusively is 80 days at most, sometimes only 20
days will be enough. Therefore, it is an impracticable view of
those who don't understand economic matters to say that growing to-
bacco will reduce the production of fooa. If we express it in an
exaggerated way, some Fields are free from insects because of growing
tobaccc. It really belps to increase the production of food as an
insecticide. ecently, some unreasonable persons have been inclined
to interrere with ot her people's fields while overlooking their own
fields.  think we must correct these points with the clever judge-
ment of a man cf the world.
I can tell you another example of the waste of extremely im-
portant war resources of the nation. lor instance, there was a
"safety week" some time ago. It was not a bad th ing but a good one.
When we rode on a tra in car, we used to see around 10 men wearing
around their arms a piece of cloth,

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.98)
CO-ORDNATED TRANSLAT ION CENTER
Th 314 - P. 12
CHUNGKING
23 FEB 1945
With the characters "Committee for safety". I did not know
what these men were supposed to do, but I felt regret that textfle
products, which must be saved as war material, and which could
have increased our fighting power if sent to the Southern Regions
or ChlvA, were used in such a way. I was much more surprised when
I got off at the TorYo Station. Big flags with blue crosses which
were supposed to stand for the "saiety week" were put up everywhere.
They were us ing important materials in dc ing such things. Those who
were doing such things did not intend malieiously to weaken JAPAN
but wanted to derorate for an observances like "safety week" without
any economic idea. Eut, if we put it exaggeratedly, this may be
a deatn-blow to JAPA.
einvestigation of the Problem of Prices
Ko. liIv4: Another point is the problem of commodity prices on
which I said a few werds a little while ago. I am responsible for
it also because I  more or less connected with it. At present,
prices of 7oo,Co0 articles are officially fixed, but nobody knows
what the price of a certain article is. This must nct go on. As
it is useless to make a lecture on commodity prices here, I will
put it simply. The cfficial prices cf fresh and raw food stuffs
should be abandoned now as I have mentioned in the committee the
other day. Por instance, it (the alandonment of official prices)
has been put into practice in a certair prefecture with successful
results.  If it were carried cut in TokYo, prices might rise tem-
porarily, but the market would not be so unreasonable as it is now,
and the prices would al so become fair soon.  In short, if we took
a new tuin and think the matters over, our fighting power will
become stronger at once.
The resources of APA are poor, but they are not so poor as
to make the war situation as unfaverable as it is now. Neither our
production nor our labor is so weak as te make the war situation as
bad as it is now. I believe things will become better if we go
on in the right way.
I hope the new cabinet will boldly put into practice the above
mentioned points, ana it is unnecessary to add that the cabinet
must have a streng political power and be able to beat any force
which might obstruct the naticnal policy in the course of its execu-
tion.
ISnlBAslI: Let us stop now. Thank you all.
Typist: Yang Chang-tsun
For C. T. C.

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.93)
(1945 from Ameriean Fabessy, Changking. Cha
CO-CRDIWATED TRABBLAPTON CENTER
CHS
CXUNGKIWG
10 MA. 100.
TR: 346
RATLATTON: OSS/CANG-ANG T U, LI CHY
ACTION: 7.B.A.
INvo:
PROMI TOA (AST ATIA).
Tublished in TOXYO, August 1944.
RE-VALUATTOM OF TE TATURAL REZOURCES OF NORTH CHINA
"Oy yy is a very important war base and has played
a vital role in the present Groat astern Amiatic War. The
prement war is hoading rapidly tomard a decisive battle, hemse
it is not only essential to convert all strategic resources
into ammunition and to inorease the rate and capacity of trans-
portation, but it is tlso necessary to co-ordinate the trams-
portation of vurious natural resources in such è mnner that
thcy will urrive at the destimmtion at the most opportume time.
This is cquivalent to saying that tho strutegic mmterials must
be very near to the inaustries or JAPan so that losees is trens-
portution will be a minimum and that the resources should be
very near to the net work of communications. The matural
resources on the zO:r" TEn TLA VD? are very rich but they are
not easily uccessible durins wurtime. Owing to its proximity.
the resources of CTTYA, especially those of MOkTH CHIMA ean be
browtht to JAIAW easily. TCIH HITA bas e coml reserve which
is comparable witt that of tho LOrEt xhivs and besides, it has
valuable deposits or iron, alumina-shale, salt and cettem. The
amount and rate of transportation are larger and faster respee-
tively than those transported from the BOUTH EA. ISLAND. As
the war is getting more dosperate day by day it would be even
more dirficult to get strategic materials from the Bouth, henee
VORTH CHIVA will play a more important role as a war bese in
the future.
VO TH CHIN: is not only more important than CENTRAL and
JOUry CHIY: economically but also politicelly and historically.
The foremost policy of the TAvrIiG Government after jeining the
war against AMEHIC& and GREAT BRITAIY is to increase produstion,
 policy which was correctly stated by Chairman wAng (注 主 )
in January 1944. The 1mpl1cation of this policy in MORTA CHINA
differs from CENTRAL and cOUTH CHINA. The war economic poliey
of the ational G vernment (NANkING) bas two direetioas: Firstly.
the object of the development of strategic mterials is for the
benefit of the Coprosperity Sphere and the mmintenance of the
Japanese garrison; the second object is to strengthen the
Government economically, that is to my, to increase predustion
so us to stop prices fron souring und to ease tne life of the
people.

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.92)
CO-GRDIWATSD TRATLATIOS CH
CHUNGKING
TR: 346 - Tg 2
10 MAR. 100S.
In MoRtH HIVA it is more impertant to earry ms the firs
livins of the people is maturally important, but this smm emly
be regarded as a necessary condition to the developmeas ef
stretegic materisls. nut in vTR/L HrmA the ecomomis peliey
of essing poople's life is not arcessarily a pre-requisite se the
exploitation of strategic materials. Tolitically epeakims, the
war economic policy ie included in the first, while in CEwrmAL
CTWA they are parallel. n thc other hand, ia OUTH CINA the
war economic policy should aim ut the maiatenmnce or the JAPAns
garrison, this is necessary because ow garrison there is
practically surrounded by thc CHunckI:NG Army. de shall diseuss
the differences in object betwcen MOrTH and CENTkal CHINA in a
latter parugraph, but these can bo underatood by considering
the titlcs, regulations, mga locations of the two sempanies:
HV P KAI PU CO. (      )(NONTH CHIBA DEVALOPMSNT CO)
nd CNG CHNGIG (公)NTRAL CHA
TROYOTO CO.).
In oRry cHr7: the policy of stabilizing people's life
is included in the rclicy of supplying mr mterials to JAPA.
but this is certainly not Japanese Imperimlism as stated by our
enemy. The proclamation issued by tho mtionml Government
(VAryvG) at the time of enterins the Great astern Asiatie War
hes the followint to may:
In order to achieve the objectives of our 'Commem ar'
it is necessary for us to co-operate fully in the military.
politicsl and oconomical fielda." This is different from those
alliunces which are bascd purely on self-interest. The spirit
of ino-Japaneso ∴lliance wss orisinated in Konok's declaration,
and Chairman "sG has s id "since KoVO's declaration JAPAn has
discarded imperialism". And sincc JAPAy ms discarded imperialism
we h vc thcrefore choscn to cmbark on a pesce movement. konok's
stetoment in December 1938: "J:57 w1l1 not only respect CHIWA's
sovercirnty but will nlso consider thc abolishment of extra-
territoriality and Japenose concessions in CHIVA" was realised ia
Janumry 1942 when the mtional Covernment entered the war. Hemce
the following are closely related: Kovos's declaration, pemee-
movement, the establishment of the Capital in MAnkInG, the
Vational Government 's entry into war, new policy towmrd CHINs
(occupied) and JAJ AY's moral obligation toward HINA.
Tro revised five-yoar plan for tho dovelopment of mourh
CHIyA announced in 1942 was thc rirst written documont which bas
specified TO.iTit CllIyA as a war baso. The object of the plan is
to concentrato all efforts in tre increase of production of coal,
iron, alumina-shale, salt und cotton. Besides, it proposes to

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.93)
CO-ORDIHATED TRAMLATIOW CRNEER
CAUGXIN
10AR.
TR: 346 - Foge 3
Government". This indicates that local industrialisaties ef
MOnTH CHIWA is gradually taxing shepe.
The big increase of production or resources im Mont
CHINA and its local industrializution arc the produets of the
war, but at the seme time it has : nswered the question "Can
CHIM: be industrialized?" Formorly, the answer s im the
negative. Por example, G. B. CREagy has stated in his boek -
C"rw! 's geographical foundations - "Thc question of whether
CHIV: cad bacome prosperous is meinly determinod by the faster
of whether or not the raw materials are near to the laber mmrket.
If there is a shortage of coal und oil, the sourees of power and
iron and coyper, cement and limestone and sulphur for making
sulphuric acid thon it will not be cany for a nation to sarvive
in modern times. The general public believe blindly that CmINA
ham large reserves of tre above mentioned resourees; hense they
are purprived to hear thet she possesses very limited amemnts of
oil, iron, copper and suphur. The coal reserve is large and
limestone plentiful, but if there is no iron then it would be
very difficult to become an industrialised nation . . , ChIWA,
in the future, can hardly mater the industrialised regions of
EA TERN NON TH AMERICA OF OF TESTERY SUNOPE.
Vice-Frosident WAlJ.ACT, after visiting CHUNGKING in Jume
1944, declared in AMikTCA that it is preferable for CHINA to
stay an agricultural country rather than become an industrial
country.  This kind of talk has a political liuge, but even in
JAT :N in 1936 and 1937 they regarded the development of NOkTH
Chiys as similar to having T. 3. guests at your house mnd the
then expanding heavy industry of JAf An did not pay mwah attentiem
to the resources of vO?TH cHINA. The present dovelopmeat of the
natural resources or 7ORTH CHINA has demonstrated our determimatiom
to wage war against such misconceptions. Our acuievements bave
shown clearly thet the industrialization or NCaTn CHINA is oaly
a question or time, but it is needless to add that Japenese espital.
technology and mchinery are essential for its realimation. More-
over, if the 1ndustries of vO:Til CHINA were not closely liaked
together with tho highly developed industries of JArAN and MANCHU-
Kuo then it would be very difricult to achieve industrialisatiem
in WORTH CHIMA.
On the other mnd, from the political point of view the

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.94)
CO-CRDIWATED TRANBLATION CHSTER
CHUNGKING
10 MA. 190.
T: 346 - Fage 4
Mw CHIWA. This is because the political re-eenstsuessem of
a WEw CHIWA is based upon the princ1ple of KowoE's dselamssies.
As we have said before, the reason that the masismml
resources of VORT" CHI 1A have received our close attestiem is
because, firstly, the cconomic and geographical valms of worr
CHIWA is far Buperior to that of C WTRAL and SOUPH GHINA and
secondly, thc political, economical and historicel emvirommeats
of YoRry cHIw: have a special status which differs frem other
parts of CHiwA. fence, we are goin: to discuss the ecenemis
value of v?rH :tw: in section two, the political, seememieal
and historical environments of VOnTH :HIA in seetion three aad
the present condition of development of vaiTH cHInA in seetion
four.
II. Accordins to G. B. CllisS.Y, there are two ChINAs existing
ide by eiue. They were known by Mnco JOL as cAThAY, that is
VONT I  T, and MAYJI or OUH CHIVA. The reaon CHSSSSY bad
divided C fv, into two instead or three regions is because
CVTRAJ. and CUrH CHIY: have many similar und common features.
The followine table of contrast is mde by CRiassy:
TABI: OF CONTRAST
TORTH CHIYA
BOUTH CHINA
1. Rainfell: Scanty and uncer- 1. . ainfall: Abundunt 800-1600 
tain 400-600
2. Ploods and droughts
2. Canala: Irrigution channels
3. fot summer, severe winter,
3. let summer, cold winter, seldom
small amount of snow
snow
4. Growing season 4-6 months, 4. Growine season -12 months.
one or two crops a ycar
two or three crops a year
5. Somi-arid climate influenced . ubtropical climate summer
by "ongolian deserts
monsoon and cyclonic rainfall
. tgriculture uncertain, crop 5. Tatensive farming rainfall,
failuro is common
crop failure very seldom.
7. Dry plateau
7. Irrigated terrace
8. Impervious calcareous soll
8. Tervious non-calcarcous soil
9. Iand of famine
9. Ind or plenty. if not too
densely populatcd
10. Keoliane, wheat, soyuboan, 10. llice and tea
and millct
11. o greas un no trees
11. Bamboo and dense woods
12. Yellow lundscape, winter
12. Green landscape ll year roued
dust
13. Road, cart, herse, mule
13. ;aved road, sedan chair coolie
and doncy
and buffalo

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.95)
CO-CRDIWATED TRANBLATTON CENTER
CHUNGKING
10 MR. 19.
TR: 346 - Page 5
14. Mud hut, straw roof, brick l4. mmboo hut, tim reef, brisk
x'ong
wll
15. mrrow street and densely
15. Wide street
populated
16. mooth sea-coast, few good 16. Indented comst lime. meny
harbors, fishery unimpor-
tant
17. Tand communication with: 17. cean communtomtion with fereiss
foreign countries
countries
18. Homogeneous Mongolian race 18. Mmay races
19. andarin
19. Different dialects
20. Conservative scholer
20. Impatient and pregressive
morchants and adventurers
Hased on this tablo Ris:Ssy concludea that you oanaet
understand tre present day problems or chiya if you do mot keep
in mind the vivid contrasts between NOsTil and OuTn CHINA. He
has madc further elucidution of ris poiut in the following
paragraph:
The most interesting probler in CHTNa's geography is the
contrust in t!e dovelorment of civilisation in NOnry and 3OUr
CHry. Vr UHIYA is the site or uncient civilization, culture
and history of the Chinese people. It is also the place of origim
of many historic logends and fotklores. In ancient times the
provinces in thc istant outh were regarded as the homes of
aborigincs und savugcs, nevertrcless, the chinese people themselves
migrated southwards whcn they were invadod by Mongolian nomads
from tho "ortn. But in modern times OuTh CHINA is more presperoms
and progressive than VO Ty HT IA. Tn other countries lands in
the temperete zones are, on the wholc, more progrossive than
lands in the tropic zones. But in CiIvA the opposite has beea
trus, at leust as far as thc present movement of ideas is concermed.
Althowgh in thc historical past chincse civilization baa spreed
from tro temperate repions of .9. CHiNa into the tropical regieas
of vo:rty Ciiin! in the present new ideas and progrossive movemente
have slweya originated in thc tropical outh and spread slowly
northwards. 'wing to tho strikini: contrest of culture, ideas and
habits between North and sOUrll CHIyA, political maification of
CHIWA is very difficult, if not impossible. In order to understand
the current problems of cyIys intelligently one bas to keep in
mind those fundamcntal geographical dirferances.
On the whole, CHINA is a hilly country with plains scattered
here and there. The NOith ChInA plain is the largest and known
as tho delta plain of HaaNGHO, HsALlO and YUTHO. The population
on this plain totals 80,000,000 and farmers constitute more thms
8o! of the total populution. These farmers are callod by Y. H.
KING 'Farmors of 400 centuries". They use primitive tools and
practise primitive farming. The so-callcd Asiatic stagnation

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.92)
CO-CRDIWATED TRAWELATTON CENTER
CHUGING
10.0
R: s66 - Page 6
respensible for the repeated and recurrest fleeds and dree
are impervious and calearcous, devoid of grass amk tress. Thes
farmers of 400 centuries, constitutins mere than mos of the
total population or the plain. exist like stomess and hereis
temperate regions of YORTH CHINA.
One cannot oxpect to uchicve pood results in the indaststal
ization of NORTH HINA if one does not design means to pash these
farmcrs of 400 centuries forward and to eliminate the 'tragedies
of chI!h'. In order to attain our goml the emerey end efferts
needed are colosssl. Let us discuss the natural reseurees of
WOkril c HIna first and leave this problem to a Yater sestion.
COAI.: Ia ARCO POLO's travels he mentioned that coal 
found cverywhere in CAtllay and it was easier to burn than weed.
Before the discovery of coal in EUtors it ms used in many family
toves in HIN!. Y. V. ICHTHOFEN, after travelling im CHIMA
for three ycars, had made a report to the effeet that he had
dimcovered many coul fields iu CHINs and that the coal rield of
HATT Irovince was the biggest in the world, so far as the
reserve mas concerned. :ccording to his estimate, the coal
reserve of -Hv3I coel ficld totaled 1.260.000 million tons.
But later surveys have proved that his estimate ms mueh toe
lerge. In the 12th Tnternational Geological Conference held in
1913 1n CAYADA the coml reaorVe of CHTVA (VANCHU-IA not imelméed)
was estimated to be 995,500,c08,700 tous, a roserve which 1s emly
next to those of the "..A. and CAVwA. tocording to the offiefml
report issued by the geoloical survey of CHIllA in 1921 the tetal
reserve ms 23,435,000,000 tons. This sum is to0 smml1 but
sccording to the same report the coml reserve of Holan, HofEI,
ANI and A IC was 10.650,000,000 tons, which comstituted
nearly one half of CHiy/'s total reserve. The figure iven by
the Tmperial Geological urvey of JAFAN in 1912 was 279, 974 millies
tons, and for TORTH CHINA the figure ms 26l,930 wiliion toms.
ccordint: to DA the total reserve of CHiNA wme 996,61s milliem
tons and for TC rH CHInA thc figure given ws Bs4,O9l millien
tons. :'rom thc above figures we know that the coal reserve of
MORTH CHIV: constitutes from 50: to 90, of CHINA'e"total reserve.
The biggeat coal field of NOnTH CHINA 1s in Si3I  plaee
which is very far from good coumunication, romote from labor supply

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.91)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
CHUNGKING
TR: 346 - fage 7
10 MAR. 1945.
away from other mineral deposits and lacking timber which is
essential for mining; hence the exploitation of this coal field
will facc many difficulties.
TRON: The total iron reserve of CHINA given by F. R.
TORG?T" in ris book "The Tron Ore Deposits and Iron Industry
of CHIA" was 950,000,000 tons. He was very doubtful about the
future iron industry of CHIMA. He says Although CHINA has 
tota1 iron reserve of 950,000,00c tons the amount is not. enough
if we consider the size of HI'yA's population. Even thotgh this
figure is doublcd or trebled by future surveys, which I think
improbable, it will not alter the general situation. One thing
is certain and that is that Clit has a very rich iron deposit.
On the contrary ciiva's iron reserve will not play aivital role
in futwre world industries."
To give a concrete example the total iron reserve of CHINA
can supply tac iron industry of the UnIrs) Tats for 9 yeare only.
ccoruins to . .  G's estimate the total reserve of
CHT" 's iron 1s 1,000,0c0.000 tons εnd this is a quite large
reservo when compared with JAF AN's reserve of 150,000, 000 tons.
vo  has 9o, or the total reeerve. The distribution of
the iron regerve is us follows:
LIAOTNG
752,000,000 tons
CHAAR
91,645,000
18
HO CT
32,424,000
n
HATHO
13,700,000
JPHOY
11,340,000
n
Total: 901,10?,000 tons
T TYA-TAIM: The discovery of alumina-shmle in WORTH
CyT: is of vital importance to the acroplane industry of JAPAN.
The distribution of the slumin-shales is associated with the
coal strete of maay eury: and hence very wide-spread. Those
deposits were round in A ( ), HIN-HAI (  ),
YY(
(()
and coel fIcldo of HOII: LU-HO-KOu (A  ), B T-YANG ()
col Fls    (). P  ), 
-() and I- () coa1 Ficlan or  PUNG.
It is expcctrd that other rich alumina-deposits will be found by
futurc seolo ical surveys.
The alumine-shole or wrrG known as "atunG Bauxite"
is the most important deposit because it contains a higher
percentago of aluminn  nd iron than the alumine-shales of

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.91)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
CHUNGKING
TR: 346 - Fage 8
10 MAR. 1945.
MANCHURIA snd HCTEI. The letter deposits contains 40% alumima
while the alumina-shale of H vrUNG contains 50% to 80% alumimm:
besides this the silicic acid content is high.
Bauxite deposits are also found in CHosAn (k  ),
I( ),TO-EI(), OJOHO(女)d
KORYOT( ) of KolA but they have not been exploited
commercially.
The bauxite deposit or  AvmL:IA is estimated to be
150,000,000. tona and the deposits found in PU-CHOw (  ),
IW-CHow ( ) and YY-TAI (  ) can be used for extracting
aluminium; the average clumina contents aro 406.
IG: A ccl between H-N ( ) nd PNIN
of h y () was constructed, the objects or ita
construction be ne two-rold: to increese the capacity of water
transportation of the HU-Pé- IVi and to irrigate the neighboring
lands for increasing cotton production. The irrigation project
intends to irrigate 11, 900 hectares or land in K0A-chaNG( : ),
H()nd 41,c00 hectere in PG-L (, SN
() and L () and 8,500 hectares in LIN
()
Typist: Jamcs law
For C. T. C.

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.98)
(Enclosure no. 8 to despatch no. 259, March 27,)
(1945 from American Embassy, Chungking, China.)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 274
CHUNGKING
29 JAN. 1945
THANSLATION: F.E.A /JLAN WANG
ACTION: F.E.A.
INFO: O.W.I.
Embassy -
- file
FROM: NIHON HYORON (The JAPAN Critic)
Publ1shed in TOKY0 1 September 1944.
A GENAL SURVEY OF ECONOMICS. (Extracts)
. The moIso Cabinet has rapidly begun to put into
practice various measures based upon the new concept of
exerting every effort toward defeating our enemies, AlkICA
and aGLanD in one stroke.
One of the measures which has materiallzed was the
establishnent of the supreme Advisory War Com ittee on
August o; by taking this measure, the government intended
to adjust and harmonize the supreme guidance and command
for the prosecutio: of the war with state affairs.
Thus, the measures for a decisive war based upon the
new concept are to be planned and carried out by the
Supreme advisory war Committee; as to the practical appear-
ance of these decisive measures -- this will naturally
depend upon the practical execution and drawing together
of the urgent demands of war of operation: and the basic
econonic conditions at home and on the continent which
must satisfy these demands.
. . Firstly, we must carry out a decisive read-
justment and rearrangement of the present elements of pro-
duction. secondly, we ust exploit and make use of the
resources in nhCHunIA and CHI.A.
Now, a lare scale concentrated adjustment i: going
on in every field of the important industries and the
adjuatment is developine with the aim of turning the air-
craft industry into a super-important industry. In accord-
ance with this, there has been a poverful mobilization and
redistribution of labor. . . . As to the people's life,
which is the basis of enriching our fighting strength, there
1s an insufficient distribution of fresh food, which is one
of the reat food problems. This is an important problem
from the various stand point: of supplementing the staple
food, from that of naintaining und increasing heavy labor,

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.98)
CO-ORDINATED TRAN:LATION CENTER
TR z74 - page 3
CHUNGKING
29 JAN. 1945
machine tools were reshuffled twice, and following that,
a sohedule was made to mobilize the controlling companies
for machines used in industrles and the factories of the
controliing companies for electrical machines . . . The
concentration and mobilization of machine power is a good
way to improve the manufacture of spare parts and machine
work which i: said to be the difficult part of aircraft
production. However, it 1s neceesary to carry out a thor-
ough mobilization of material first in order to cet real
effects f: o the mobilization of machine power. It is
said that there are a lot of half finished products in the
factories all over the country. Thi: means a relative
lack of material, but if people can cooperate more actively,
a lare part of the half finished prodcts can be turned
to Iightin strength as finished products.
A thorough Investigation of the storehouses in fac-
torles with the cooperation of the Army, the government,
and the people and the wiping out of resources which
have not been turned to fighting strength are urgent mea-
"ith regard to transportation, measures have been
taken to : implify and quicken the procedure for transport-
ing aircraft spare parts. As to scientific technique,
three reports were made at the meeting of the ircraft
Department of the cientific Technique Association on the
utilization of molds and s elted articles. These reports
were about the "Saving of Aircraft Spare Parts and  ethods
For Lare scale Production , "A Rapid Increase in the Pro-
duction of pecial Aircraft spare Parts and t e Adoption
of Techniques used on Mal leable Cast Iron" and "The Utili-
zation of ynthetic hesin for Airplane Bearings. alle-
able cast iron is far ore cimple than wrought material
when used in ranufacturing special spare parts which are
few in nunber but any in kinds.  oreover it can be used
widely as a material which needs less labor on cutting and
finishing.
The inerease of the production of "wing:" by the com-
bined power of our 100,000 000 people i: under way now
as mentioned above, but inerease of air strength does ot
simply mean an increase of quantity. The increase of pro-
duction in quantity will be wasted offort if the improve-
ment of quality coes not so along vith it, and if most of
the airplanes we send to the front needs repairing. of

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.98)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 274 - page 4
CHUNGKING
29 JAN. 1945
course when it is difficult for us to get the appropriate
materials and the raw materials of the right size, and
when most of the laborers are unskilled, we are hard
pressed to satisfy this demand. However, our present
task is to improve the techniques used in the field of
materials, to adopt a finishing method suitable for the
materials used in the field of aircraft production, to
make research on heating management, to make plans suit-
able for unskilled workers, to improve the work, and to
adjust and better the equipment, machines, and smelting
tools.
expectation of an Increase in Coal Production.
The coal productlon of the first quarter this year
was somewhat under the level of the planned goal. Having
been affected by various elements of productlon especially
by the unsufficlent supply of labor, it was impossible to
obtain good results in July and August, but now, the
urgent measures for the supply of labor decided upon by
temporary headquarters for labor policy of coal mines
are being gradually carried out, and, at the sare time,
policies for material and equipment are being made. These
are bri htening the prospect for an incroase in coal pro-
ductio
In regard to the policy for labor in coal mines, mea-
sures havo been taken to recruit the experienced workers
of sAhlYAma (光 山) (?), to introduce Korean workers,
to supply speclal laborers, and to use the volunte:r corps
of al the orcanizations and companies concerned with coal
production, the volunteer corps concerned with engineering
work and that of the prefectures, municipalities, cho, and
villuges, und the volunteer army consisting pf the members
of the Catholic Church. An adjustment of the matter regard-
ine skillec miners of AhIYAlla (?) and military mobillza-
tion seoms to be under con:ideration also, so the future
of this labor probler, which has caused a lot of trouble,
Is beco ine brighter. The active cooperation and the
earnestness of the Youth Corps for an Increase of Coal
Production in the nUsHU work shop of the "ITrsTSU Co. makes
us feel secure.
On the other hand, as regards machinery, mon-official
experts have been assigned to the Fuel Bureau in  Or Ila

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.97)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TH 274 - page 5
CHUNGKING
29 JA. 1965
plan for a practical use of machines, steel, and lumber.
Besides, conspicuous improvement has been made in peoling
resources av.ong the coal mines. The securing of materlals
for the use of the laborers, and the work of assistance
and protection have also ben started. Pollowing the des-
1gnation of the first grade mines as munitions companles,
the ordinance for the management of factorles and work
shops has been applied to mines recently for the first
time, and a great part of the important mines have been
Included. This will be very effeotive for preventing
the laborers from leaving their work and also for provid-
Ing a sufficient supply of workers.
However, it is said that it wil) take about half a
year to make preparatlons for the increase of coal pro-
ductlon, and a real increase will be possible only after
september, but in consideration of transportatlon and
other t Ings, the increase of productlon will be focused
on the nYuSiU coal, TO.I..A coal, and YAMAGUCHI coal.
Problems In Increaeing the Production of Iron and
steol.
Increa:ing iron and stecl production which dopends on
the continent for raw materials has become very difficult
as the war :Ituatlon develops. The only way to overcome
the difiiculties  1s to maintain as long as possibl• the
tranaportation of iron ore in the continent, and the NOkTH
CuIha coal used as raw muterial to plan for the increase
of iron ore production and the production of coking coml
(粘 想 ) at home, and to use most effectively the
raw materlals we can got. ns to our iron and steel pro-
duction, the principle of "super importance"(点)
has been adopted with respect to the consumers by limiting
the kinds of iron and :teel products, but it is our urgent
duty to o a step farther and carry out the same princlple
with re:pect to the manufacturers ( y - - ).
At presont, it seems that genarally the iron and
steel industrier are not operating with l00% efficlency
because of the limitatlons in raw materials, and this is
a rogrettable matter. In ordor to make a "high priority"
distribution of the limited raw materials to efricient
factories. and in order to raise efficiency by a concen-
trated production, it would be wise to stop temporarily
the operation of the factorles of low efficiency throughout

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.97)
CO-ORDINATED TRAN:LATION CENTER
TR z74 - pace 6
CU:GKING
29 JAN. 1945
the fields of blast furnaces, open hearths, forged or
caste steel, and peclal steel. The equipment of the
closed factorles will be preserved for urgent use in time
of air raid or for ahifting production and will be kept
in  uch a way :o t at it can be moved whenever there may
be a cupyly of raw materlals.
at the same time, it is also our urgent duty to im-
prove the quality of our home produced ore as well as
Increasin Its quantity, and to increase production both
qualitatively a d quantitatively by iving priority to
the ost promising mines from the standpoint of supply
of labor, material, and equipment.
eanwhile, desperate efforts have been made in KORLA
to stud ways of i creaslng the production of small sized
blat firnaces, and as u rosult, thoir prospects have
recetiy become oright. he small sized Korean furnaces
started to operate with the ore produced in KOhEA and
anthracite, but there were many difficultles technically.
and they changed the production ly using coke for come
time. however, as the ure of coke is counter to the
object of the smal sized horean furnace, research upon
research was  ade, and final'y, good results were obtained
in usim anthracite as the main raw material, and  ixing
1t with 0 of briquette. Thus, the fuel problem of the
small sized furnaces ha: sradually been :olved, so an
increase of production in the future can be expected.
It is intended to raise the  ixed amo nt of briquette to
80p against <0: of coke in the future.
The .im of the Iroductlon uroup for the vecisive ar.
as rousure: to be taken against war denage a d to
maintain the required amount of munition production in
time of air raid, policies in finance, management of
industrler, labor, and tran: portation have been decided
rospectively and it is of great ignificanco that the
controlline conpany for indu: trial machines has reorganized
the fac orles under it: control to form a production group
for the declsive war as a measure against air raids in the
field of productio.
In time of air raid, proper and quick reasures are
neces ary to  ove the production of the bombed factorles

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.97)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 274 - page 7
CHUNGAING
29 JAN. 1945
to other places, to shift and make use of the equipment
and labor in other factories, and to decide the order of
the restoratlon of the bombed factorles and the form of
their restoration. (Reconstruct them, close them, or
give them up). It 1s absolutely necessary to make a com-
plete plan before hand, based upon a sound reco nition of
reality, and it is also neces ary for the Administrative
Department of  unitlons and the local government offices
to take active measures to suft the real circumstances.
owevur, this can nardly be done unless there is a co-
operative organization or a spirit of cooperation among
the factories which have a close connection in locality
and work. It would be hard to expect a quick and success-
ful shiftin of production should there be a great difference
in the equipment, technique, and standard of capacity anong
the factories.
The Production Group for the ecisive ar orgunized
its member factor ies in different units classifying them
accordine to the kinds of their machine:, the mutual re-
lation of thelr machine:, and the directive form of the
Administrative Department of unitions; 1 other woros,
1t oreanized the factories of closer connection in vlew
of two elements; nameiy, the element of locality and that
of wor. One roup consists of about 20-30 factorles and
it is responaible lor sizins up the situation, for making
concrete plans for productive equlprent, for pooling mate-
rial and lubor and for re toration and shifting of produc-
tion in time of air raid under the control of the roup
chief, and it i: responsiole al o for the prompt execution
of the plans. 18 eroupe were organized co aletins of fac-
tories Ior foraing mechimery. productive machines, trans-
portation machines, blowers and hydraulie achinery and
cast type roller: in the districts of KanTo and MI hI
where 60p to 70 of the member factories are situated.
Trun:portation.
In order to provide against air raid and other attacks
by the enemy, and in order to take complete measures for
emereencies by concentrating and makine use of the trans-
portation facilities on land, like railways, and sea trans-
portation facilities, contering about ports and harbour,
"A summury of Transportation  easures for mergencies" was
proposed and passed in the special se sion of the diet
held on august lt. he chief point: of the summary are

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.97)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 274 - page 8
CHUNGKING
29 JAN. 1945
as follows:
1. A general headquarters of transportation for emer-
gencies is to be established in the Ministry of Communi-
cation and Transportation in the central government as an
organization for control of transportation in emergencies.
The Minister of Communication and transportation is to be
the chief of the general headquarters, and the Vice Minis-
ter of Com unicatlon and transportation will be the assis-
tant chief of the general headquarters. However, the
staff of the army and the Navy and other government offices
concerned are to be allowed to have a voice in important
affairs. s to local diatrict, a local headquarters of
transportatlon for emergencies will be, established in such
important districts as FaIHIN, (京  TOkYO and YOrOHAMA
district) AGOYA, HA HIN (P反 申 O AKA and RCBS) KITA
AYUH,(此 九  North : H) and ( 英).
The President of the local administrative conncil 1s to
be the head of the Iocal headquarters, and the headquarters
will con i:t or the chief of the Bureau of Railways, the
assistant chief of sea transportation and the local high
officials in each district. However, the staff of the
Army and the Navy and other overnment office: concerned
will be al owed to have a voice in important buciness.
Besido:, a to, fu or ken (p,  ) headquarters
of transportation for emergoneies will be established in
each to, iu, or ken of a district.
z. The chief of the local headquarters of traneporta-
tion for emergencles plans for omergency transportation
according to the policy i dicated by the chief of the gen-
eral headquarters, and the chief of the to, fu, or ken
headquarters plan according to the policy indicated by
the chief of the local hendquarter mach headquarters
Is to be responsible for the carrving out of the plans.
3. The headquarters of transportation for emergencies
plans and carrles out transportation af airs neces ary for
relief, prevention of epidomics, supply of water, shifting
of labor i emergencies, urgent rostoration, di: tribution
of matorials for emergency use, suen as refuge, excavation,
and protective measures, and at the sa"e time, it Is expected
to endeavour to maintain  ilitary transportation and the
scheduled transportation based upon the plan of general mo-
bilization i tl e of air raid and other kinds of enemy
attack.

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.96)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 274 - pag6 9
CHUNOKING
29 3AN. 1025
4. As an executive organ for transportation affairs
in emergencles, a military formation of automobiles, light
transportatlon facilities, and barges ls to be set-up in
every transportation organization, and the syatem ls to be
adjusted so that strong orders can be thoroughly executed.
whether transportatlon in omergoncles can attain its
object or not will ultimately depend upon the militarisa-
tlon 1n te realm of the actual Instrumonts of execution
like the 1ns1gnificant automobiles and light transporta-
tion facilities. sven under the present management of
trans ortation, the control in the field of minor faeill-
ties i: extremely difricult, so it wil! be more difficult
in ti e of air raids. wuick militarizatlon of these
facilities is urgently desired.
The Record of the Increase in  ummer ransportation.
The perlod for icreasing production and Improvement
of transportation by the state railways in order to meet
the urgent 1ncrease of production for the decisive war be-
gan on July !, and the result of the first half perlod was
made puolic. nocording to that, the general average of
the rosuits of transportatlon on the resources specified
for lcrease (up to i0 august, this year) 1s 86% of the
planned oal. ns to the Important resources, coal is 87%
(98%) 1r0n and steel 1s 95 (134%) 1mportant ores 1s 80%
(122p) rlce 1s 79.. (108~); the resu?te are al1 un atisfao-
tory. (ri ures in parentheses are the results for the
same period last year). The reason: are as follows:
The accidental blocking in roHoku(東 北) okUU
durln the lat:er half of July because of heavy rain.
2. The deorease in capacity of light transportation
becauso of the lack of labor in big citles.
3. The exportor: are not enthuslastic about exnorting
goods.
Priority of nircraft Transporting.
starting from 15 May, certain cars were set apide to
be used oxclu:ively for prlority transportatlon of rate-
rials used in the production of aircraft and aircraft spare

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.96)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
Th 274 - page 10
CHUNGKING
29 JA
part, but only about 37x of the cars were utilised and the
Intent was not carried out thoroughly. The state rallways
have made improvement by handling goode related to aireraft
in tne same way as military goods. As to luggage and pareels.
the prementine of a certificate for lugsage related to air-
craft will be omitted, and it will be sufricient merely to
attach a tag on the lugoage with the character ( ) (= als-
craft) thereon.
as to . eu transportation. the Managing Co. of ar Ships
and Merchant ren put into practice on 1 July a subsidy system
for speclal loading in order to increase the loading capa-
city of war shipe and rerehantmen. This will be continued
to October 10.
Labor rolicy in Time of Air naid.
as to tne labor policy for factorles and work shops in
time of ulr raid, 3 fundameutal measures were established
on July b oy a joint :tatement of the chief of the Buroau
of Joneral obllization in the .inistry of unitions and
the Cnlef of the Labor ureau In the Inistry of Publio
helfare.
1. To obey strlctly t e sorvice regulations.
z. To ruport conultion o security.
3. 1o restory dage.
4. 1 d1:patch laborer. and change positionr.
b. dequate caintenauce of supplies.
6. To maintain refugee conters.
7. To maintain food supplie:.
8. To make preli inary training.
The Letropolitan Tolice Loard prepared a 'sum ary of
Labor Folicies in Time of air aid" based upon these points,
and trlou to carry put the principles quickly during te
later half o1 august by supervising and encouraging the
police statlons and stations of labor mobilization which
were under its control. The chief points of the summary

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.97)
CO-URDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 274 - pag0 11
CHUNOKING
of policies by the cetropolitan Police Board are as follooss
1. As to the etrict obedience of service regulations,
1t is demanded that the laborers should act with deeision
to protect until death their realm of work under the diree-
tion of the factory owner. At the same time, the neigh-
bourhood organization of workers can be utilised, absenee
without notice should be prevented, and the prinoiple of
a just puni hment and a just reward must be applied to the
performance of duty in time of air raid.
2. The report on safety to homes can be done in con-
nection with the police or organlzatlone conoerned.
3. as regards restoration, that which neoede to be
done yuickly can be reported to the chlef of the pollee
station who cotrols the di:trict, and the help of the
Labor . arvice Corps it evallable (劳 報 士 ).
If the rustoration will take a longer time, they can ask
for ke, laborers fror the chlef of the .obillzation tation.
4. To thoso who work during an air raid alarm, 
"reconpen e for workin during an air rald"which is about
half of the dally pay will probably be given, and besides,
the expen: os ne ded for a terporary lodglng is to be paid
by the owner of the factory an a principle.
b. 1n case somet Ing happens, and 1t becomer 1mposel-
ble to engage in work, an arount of money more than the
standard dally wage will be paid to the workers. Acslst-
ance, protoction, and relief worl: fixad by rulen and regu-
lations wil! be carrled out qutckly and sirply, and the
fee for insurance of war casualtles is to be pald by the
owner of the factory.
6. at to refugee centere, schools, abbeys, and churches
will be utilizer, and a plan wil, also be made to chare
the use of the houses In the neighhourhood.
7. ns to tho supply of food, a cooperative system of
urgent : up ly should be made with the powerful factories
as a center.
Urgent and . peclal Measure: for Food in Big Citles.
nitn the intention of improving the conditlon of food

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.92)
CO-ORDI ATED THA SLA TOM CEYTER
T z74 - pace 1z
CHUGH.ING
29 JAN. 1945
supply in bi consuming cities a d to ral:o the morale of
the psople. t e overnment decided upon"the urgent and
special measures regardi s the maintenance of food in big
citles of concumption, in the cobinet moeting of august
16. stres: was placed on Pokyo and OSaka As a pollcy
to handl the lack of fresh food in these tio big cities,
potatous usod as staple food, which are being collected
now, il. be distributed as vogetables; besides, during
august nd epterbor, 0 mome (  = 0.1 5 ounces) of
frozen vegetables, boan curd,  toamed beans, boan malt,
and frozer boan curd were specially di tributed to each
per on daily. as to fih, 1somme was distributed to
each par: or. dally durime augu:t and . eptember by encourag-
ine the  ransportation of good: renalned undelivered and
from the up ly of ariae products in stock, and from a
special c1str1bution of caimed food totalline 410,000
boxes. (four half-pound-cans for eac person). As to the
staple toods, five day ' ration of potatoes and wheat
flour   be peclaliy dirtributed without cutring down
the rice ration. nor ove., in order to be ready to face
an air rale, the people are asked to pres rve staple food
at home. ear uret he to be take to istribute before-
hand rive days' ratlon of staple foods in air dsfense eities
like FoYo, Yo a  rore, veakA, and of, and three
days' ratlon of taple food wil? be di: tributed in air
defen clties like an and tho e in  orth y .
Tne above "eetl oned mear nr es enphaslzed Ohve and
Oarm. however, the food conditio in the mid e cities
is as swri us as trat in the bie eities, and there are
many fuma eutal prol le  to be sslver quickly.
Typist: szetu, Chen
For C.T.G.
7.8B.

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.92)
(Enclosure no. 9 to despatch no. 259, March 27, )
(1945 from the American Embassy, Chungking, China.)
C1N3
JDS
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
JHP
Th 307
CHUNGKING
ARK
CRB
TraNSLaTION: 0.S.S./Changwang TU & Kahn TOU
ACTION: .
IFO: OSesmajo
Enay
F To File
FnOm: Slhuho "weokly Neport"
rublished OhYo, o September 1944.
THL ST   I  LABOOBILIATION.
fforts of abor ouillzation Intenslfied.
Introduction:
Histor, teaches us that those who can exert their total
trentn to the tmost und to  he last wil! certain'y win the
final victory. In the presont war of gamble, a gamble which
may cost our national exi:tence, we must produce the necessary
weapon: tor odern warfare. Labor 1: the very thing which can
produees weapons, hence to work di Igently and cooperatively
1s the o uarantee to victory.
In order to  uster enough labor foree of cood yuality
the overn ent has taken  teps to inte sify the efforte of
out 1zation. Thus on ugurt 3, 1944. the sovernmont
decreed the formatio of the vorent: labor force, the students!
labor lorce a d the civi s rvants' labor force. The following
is a deseription of the ohilization of the various labor
forces:
02.
The ubjects of the omen's Labor rorce.
uestion: why is the obilization of wo en intensified?
answer. we eed to understand that the reat sa:tern
siatic ar is a total war. For every soldier fighti  in
the front we end ten people workine to keep hir supplled
with armunition and other neces ary cupplles. Since we have
10,000,000 soldiers w0 need 100,000,000 workers. But who
are these workers? Naturally, the role is at first filled
by men. as the vajority of the male population is on the
battle field then the remaiming male population is far from
sufficlent to meet the urgent domand. That is why our ene les
AnIC. and GnaT BnI aI, as well as our friends G ANY
and sov InT nUs IA, have mobilized the women population to
forn the mucleus of a labor force a long time ago. Similarly,

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.97)
CO-ONDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
Th 307 - page 2
CHUNGRING
21 FEB 1945
in order to win the creat Aslatic war we ust demand woman
labor.
Although a volunteer woman lab or force has appeared on
varlous battle fronts und the mumber of volunteors has reached
several hundred thousands, it is still insufficient. There-
fore, 1n order to ive every woman a chance 1n our country
to s ow her loyalty to the mperor the Government has taken
steps to Improve the  sasures of control of woman labor and
to make clear the methods of selection to everybody.
Question: Is there any change in the work of the
volunte rs of the past?
answer: The volu teer workors of the past was organized
under the uidance of the government. It arose out of the
great domand for labor. The present decree ouly attempts to
put woman labor on a lecal basis and aims at enlarging the
scope of women labor. Goneral y speaking, there Is not much
change The contents of the decree can be sunmarized as
follows:
. To formulate rogulat on: for selecting woran labor.
2. To perfect the varionr laws of control.
3. To ive to those who are not wil ine to work special
orders.
4. To ive to those voluntor vorkins groupr si ilar
Jegal protection
Questlon: is the procedur for up: lication difforent
now fro the past?
answer: Just us stated above there is mo fund ental
change in the procedure. The on'y difforence Is that the
presont procedure is  ore definite and cautious.
Briefly :peaking, at first the local authorities issue
orders to the followine groups: the chiefs of towns,
districts, villages and women corps; the managers of cor-
panies, banks and other s1 1lar aterprises; the heads of
univertities, colle es and schools. Then these resposrible
porso s, actine upon the i rtruction: of the covernrent
make a survey of the available labor force n der their respec-
tive controls: per: onal i terviews and phy ical exa inatious
are conducted, if eces ary. They are required to make
detailed reports to the local authorities and the latter will

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.93)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATTON CENTER
In 307 - page 3
CHUGIING
21 FEB 1945
1s ue orders to tho:e who aro qualified for work, based on
the report: of the aforesaid persons.
TO THO O ANL  OBILID.
Questions: what kind of wonen are to be obilized?
answer: 1n principle, unmarried wonen aging fron 12 to
40 years of ae are to be obi ized first. ost of these
wonen are workine now but we can put ther into more useful
work b mobilizine them.
uestion: Fro this regulation it means that the
overmmo.t has elared the field of obillzation.
But are
there u y exe: ptions?
answer: Those who work in Ilitary organlzations, in
an unition plants. in plants which are controlled by pilitary
authoritles and those who have been selected to work in the
fields to produce food are exeapted.
boside, those who are working in the  etallurgical plants
and  echa ical hops which are obilized by the overnment:
those worki  tor tme pro otiom of the welfore of the people;
those who are workin in the 5o cifforent kinds of entorprises
as isted uy tho cov er ent; those who are  capacable of work
and thote who havo volunte red for a pecial purpose are
exe.to.
wostlon what Is poant by the root of the fa lly
livine us stated i the docree?
aoswer: It heane those w o have to sup ort their fa ily
or thelr pelatives. The fol ovih are al: o e cluded in this
cateaory: whose who have  ost their others. or have sick
and old others; those who have too macy childsen to up ort
or have  ick people to loox after; and those who cannot be
removed iro the fa i for financial poasons.
wuostion: althouch this is a total'y different punrtion.
in the part we have heard a ot abont the u feirress in the
mattor of celection
anawer: ahe aut orities have done t eir ut ost to attain
fair oss i the mannor of selection. Horeafter the solection
wil be based on the  ethods stated; that Is the rusrogsible

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.96)
CO-ORDINATED TANSLATION CENTER
TR 307 - page 4
CHUGHING
21 FEB 1945
persons of the varions localities and enterprises will make.
a detailed survey and the authorities will make the final
decision based o this survey. at the sare time, when the
selectlon is made on the various villages and countries the
elder: a d leaders of the respective villages and countries
are invited to help. Selection i: also'extended to those
who have only l1eht manual duties to perforn in the various
organizations, offices, plants etc. In this manner there
will be no unfairness in the matter of labor conscription.
As a  atter of fact fairnes: in labor obilization is
reflected ost by those who are goin to be mobilized. In
short, in thi: critical  oment ail those who can perform
manual duty ou ht to join.
Questlon: Now I under:tand. But I thi k, there will
be ma y cha os i the fa ily hen the war lasts a few years;
then hon ca the morbers of the labor force be released?
answer: all those condition: of exenption: for recruiting
new menbers are a so ap licable to those who have reasons to
be re ieved. For xample, thoso vho marrled after they have
beco e members of the labor force, or those who became disabled,
fallon sick, or become the indispensable person of the fanily,
econo ical y or phy: ical y shal' be released fron the labor
force by a sirple procedure.
uestion: The p riod of labor service is fIxed at one
year, but do you thi k there is any reason for its extension?
answor: The extension of the sorvice period vill aprly
to those who aree to do  o. But in the present war of iife
and death production in the war factorles is es e tial, and
If you cannot find any one to replace you and vou have o
strone reason: to be rolieved, then it i bet er for you to
remain in service voluntarily until the final victory is
won. as a matter of fact, obody vil leave the sorvice at
the end of one year.
THOSOOTIIO JOIN
question: what ste s are you solng to take when : one-
body has recelved the ord rs to join the jabor force but
roiuses to turn up?
answer: Those who have received the orders to join the
labor force ouht to perform the duties as recorded in the
reoulations of Mational Mobilization. Thi: is sinilar to men

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.95)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
Th 307 - page 5
C.LUHGKING
21 FEB 1945
who refuse to join the Army. To these people our law will
force the to join.
uestion: are there any regulation: for punishing those
who refuse to join?
Answer: Those who refuse to act as ordered will be
Imprisoned for o e ear, or flned a :un of 7,O00 yen or less.
I think there is no woman in Imperial  IP ON who will tolerate
such hae!
1
Question: Are there any difficulties for the enployers?
anewer: hegardine this point the overnment has taken
step: at the very peginning. In order to ake this operate
as sr ootnl. as possible to all those concerned, the govern-
1
mont has: o listed the holp of Iocal authorities to draft a
serl s of ordurs, bas d on the pirit of the Mational Mobill-
zation act, to overn the relation hip between the omployers
and tme  bers or the Tabor foree. he overnrent will
withdraw tho labor foree fron tho o plants who fail to comply
with the oreers and laws of ths sovornment.
embers of  ho labor force are not guosts of the plants,
and the plants have mot the loisure nor the money to treat
the as uch.
 a the plants are vory bury  ith the bat le
of productlon, I think, it is os mntial for the aborers to
realize thi: point. The variour plant: hould welcone the
members of the labor force as warriors and the duty of the
warrior: is to oin the war of production at once.
wuostion: It i needless to pontion thir point, but . . .
answer: In tue attor of accomodation: the overnment
has taken step to build separate lavatories tollet:
rest-louoes, chanelue rooms ad play rounds for wonen
workers.The overnme t has al: o cone many other trings for
the welfore of the mumbers of the labor force.
uestion: How about questions of diseipline and morale?
answer: Certai ly, there ofter oc ur core problems
related with di: cipline and morale. But we have paid great
attention to this atter. But actually nothin: concrete and
surious could happen, becauso as soon as the employers get
rumor: alon this line they request the overnment to take
dra:tic moasures.

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.96)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
Tn 307 - pae 6
CHUGKING
21 FEB 1945
In order to prevent the occurence of uncooperative acts
the women workers are, therefore, organized as a volunteers
labor force and oxpected to work toether.
In thi: attor if the person involved takes a firm
attitudo as an Imperial lady, then nothing untoward could
happen. be: ides, we have taken all the necessary precautions
on this at er as just stated.
UALTANT
question: low about treatront?
answer: In principle, the treatment is the same as
other wo en oporators or workers in the factory. Beside, the
lavs Ior Health i urance, delfare annuity, factory laws etc.
are al o aicable o mombers of women's labor force. The
covern. e t ha: also taken stepe to maintain and heal the
diseased a d wounded, and other measures for the welfare of
the re bers.
wuestion: Since the overnment has consIdered all these
points then ve merbers ought to worlk very hard for the
cover  nt, not forettine the great enthusiasm displayed by
us at the tine of joinin the sorvice.
Answer: You are uite ri ht. The object of wonen nobi-
lization i: not omly to have women  obilized, the  ost
Important thi is to mouilize ther to work hard and effi-
cient y for the overment. In this way, the merbers won't
set disheartened as soon as they enter the factory In this
matter the covornment has asked the authorIties of the fac-
tories to pro ote those who work hard and exhibit talents.
uthers have ade Inquiry about those who are di heartened
because they have mothi to do in the factory. Haturally,
the overn e t i: doin Its pert cot to let thi: kind of
thine happen aeain. In short, this is a total war; we have
obilized everythine for this war, this inelude ali kinds
of trans ortatlon. Owing to the high ofriciency of our
transportation, the stoppage of work arising out of the lack
of raw uterlale ote. will ot hap en agai. e hope that
everybody shall under: tand thi fully.
e have also heard that the onthusiar of the rembers
died out as soon as they entered tho factory because they
found the people in the factory very dul and mmintoresting.
The covermment and the anthorities of the Tactory have also

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.96)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 307 - page 7
CHUNGKING
21 FEB 1945
taken up this matter conscientiously and seriously There
may be a few rascals around but we hope the mombers will
show a pleasunt mood and a po: itive attitude instead of
bein aisheartened.
TH WORN OF H WON S LABON FORC.
question In what fields shal? we be distributed?
answor: At the pr sent time the members of the labor
force will be distributed in the following factories:
aeroplane, a unition, Important echanical, tools, chemical
and many other factorles. In tho past our factorles have
depended on y upon male aborers for production, but at the
present noment we have tried to replace men with women and
found thut women ca take over nearly al? the jobs and duties
that were perfor: ed formerly by men.
of course, you have ear od thi: f or the newspapers
a lone ti e ago. their achievement is surprising to the
e ployer. and their honest attitude toward work Is touching
to many. Hence our faith in the reathess of Japanese
wome: i further strengthened, and fron this alone we are
sure of the final victory!
question:
From now o what flelds hall our ost in por-
tant worx ie?
antwer: There Is ot much difference fron the past
arrangenent:. hut we ne d to amphasize now is labor and
not the di tribution of lauor. Hereafter we have to pobi-
lixe ali the labor and place them in the ost I. portant
factorius und plante of the country.
vuustion: Lartiy, there is the cry of "women conserip-
tlon in the country: has t e overnr t con idered tair
matter?
answer: Naturaly, the overnment has con: idered this
matter. he le al preparations aro ready, and if circum-
stances de and, women con: cription would start soon. But,
we beliove the women of Imporlal IProy vill ot wait until
conscription, they wil) volunteer their pervico illingly
to the country as so any of then have joined the labor
force already.

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.97)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
Th 307 - page 8
CHUNOKING
21 FEB 1945
THE LOBILIATION OF SPUDENTS AID PUPILS.
Labor is the ssence of ducation:
Question:
What are the reasons behind the "Student
Labor decree"?
Answer: The procedure of mobilization and the employment
of student labor 1: based upon the act of National Labor
mobilizatlon. In the very begin ing, the act of National
Labor obllization was formulated on the principles of
National obilization It aims to mobilize the whole popu-
latlon to utilise their loisure time for war productlon and
other important military purposes. In essence this is
different from the present student mobilization.
This does not mean that the students have to sacrifice
their lear In temporarily and devote their time for labor
service, but on the contrary, the studonts have to achieve
the aim of education through working. hat is to ay, the
student: cet to offer their services to the country in the
form Labor 1: education( 勤 即 是教育) hence this
i ot e te porary affair, but yoar around plan. Therefore,
the procedures and regulation: had to be drafted in this
spirit.
In order to meet the specific requirements of the
anmunition factories and at the sare time to enable the
carryin out of  obilization smoothly 1t is nece: sary to
separate student labor obilization from the eneral labor
mobilization hence the " tudent Labor  obilization decree"
was issuéd.
uestion: "Labor Is educatlon" i: very i portant, but
Answor: The phrase "Labor is education" is often
misunderstood to mean teaching the laborers in their leisure
hours; this would naturally lead the stud nts to think that
they aro treated as apprentices. This 1s certainly not the
right interpretation. It moans to the teacher that educa-
tion of the student is possible only through labor, and to
the student it means celf-training, learning and self-disci-
pline throh work.
The employers ust treat ther as students and they must
welcome them with a warm heart and honest enthuslaer. They
have to look after their health and hyglenic conditions, and

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.97)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
Th 307 - page. 9
CHUNGKING
21 FEB 1945
to guide their thinking so as to make the student work dill-
gently in a friendly atnosphere. This kind of cooperatlon
Is compatible with "Labor is educatfon" and will reatly
stimulate the efficiency of production.
The worst possible arrangement 1s to treat the students
as ordinary laborers and try to exploit the as much as pos-
sible. The other extrene 1: to take as many students as
possible and ive them unimportant jobs or even no work to
do and lot thom loaf around.
If on the oe hand the employers respect the personality
of the stude ts and take pains to explain to the their diffi-
cultius, and on the other hand praise ther for their good
work, whe there Is an inereaso In production, then through
this attitude of sharing bitternes: and happiness together
the e otional and rateful :tudent: can be moved to work
very hard for the factory, regardless of nersonal sacrifices.
we therefore, hope the employers will understand the psy-
choloay of the  tudonts and guide then to creative and pro-
ductive work.
THE THH 1 G  OBII.IAPIO
uestion: what are the es ential points of the present
decree?
Answer: The fol owin points are tros ed in the
decree:
1. fhe perlod of labor survice ie extented fron 60 days,
as stated i the ational Labor obilization act, to within
one year.
2. rreviously, stude ts higher than the 3rd year of the
middle uchool are the objects of obilization but the present
decree has uxtented the iimit to include all the students in
the mid le scho !, In the nomior primary school as well as
all the head masters and the teaching staffs.
3. the inister of ducation and the ocal authorities
respon:ible ior education have the responsibility the order
the student: to work, but at the sane tine have to duty to
order the tstop orkin, if circumstances deem it necessary.
4. The  inister of Public Welfare and the  inister of
ducation have the power to i sue orders to the employers
regardine the ranner in which the studonts should be employed,

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.94)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 307 - page 10
CHUNGKING
21 FEB 1945
the working conditions of the factory, and the responsibilities
of the omployers to look after the welfare of the students
and their dependents.
5. The supervisory powers of the Minister of Education
and local authorities reponsible for education over the head-
masters, the obilized tudents and the employers are clearly
stated.
DIMFLIF IOATION OF P.OCEDUNE:
Question: Flease explain :hortly the simplified procedure
of mobilization.
Answer: 1. Formerly the ap lication for tudent labor
service wu set directly to the Inistries of ducation and
Fublic welfare. But at the prosont the ap lications of
College a d niver: Ity students are still handled by the
Ministries of ducation and Public elfare, w ile the primary
and Mid le school tud ts can apnly directlIy to the local
authorities. besides, it 1s not nece: sary for the applica-
tions to pass through the head of the National vobilization
Bureau. 2. Tho mobi ization plan Is carful y worked out,
if applications are ade wit in the definite spheres of the
plan they can be passed earily without wasting time in
deliberation. 3. The mohilization order is not jointly
signed by the inister of ducation and  inister of Public
welfare as previously, but cigned either by the inister of
ducation or y the local authorities. 4. fter receiving
the moui ization order the principals and head masters will
notify tho : tudents concerned verbally and it in unneces ary
to infor. the. in writte form a they did previously. 5.
Applications for erergency works which vil la:t within a
period oi z0 daye are sent to the pri cipals or headrasters
directly ey the stud nts. In this  anner it has opomed the
door to obilization by the head asters and principals of
schools.
TH
PLODRNE AD ORDTNARR WOIELS.
Questlo
nesardi  the studet  obilization: are there
any differences ariring between the students and the ordinary
workers?
answer: on the sood ide, the quality and habits of
the ordimary orklee men have greatly Irproved owins to the
cood 1oflue ce of the tudent workers. There are any uch
concrete exanples. iretly,  the ather of attende ce:
the ptudents have established a cood record; late comer
are few; conse uentiy the rate of production i: inereased.

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.97)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
Th 307 - page 11
CHUNGKING
21 FEB 1945
Besides, owing to the good influences of the students the
manners, behavlor and conduct$ of the ordinary workers have
all changed for the good. The students have not only
Influenced the qualities of the workers but also influenced
their working efficlency.
The bad influence exorted by the :tudents is not too
rare to be mentio ed. For example, the ordinary workers
are consclous of the fact that t e employers are taking
more interest in the student and think that they are not so
well treated as the students. at the same time the snobbish
mannors of the students are not welcome by the workers. But
the employers are responsible for all these; they ought to
act as go between and arbitrate the differences between the
students and the workers.
THOSE NO AE UADLE O JOIN.
uostion: There  ust be many  tudents who are not able
to join the students' Labor Corps.
answer: Thoso who are too ill to join and t ose who
aro wounded after enterig a factory or becare ill are
exempted from : obilization. These students are required
to receive medical attentlon and as soon as they have
recovered they are guided to selocted light work to suit
their phy ical conditions.  The obilized students we
Insured for health and life. Besides, wo have opened other
channels for t eir safe uarding, such as, laws for working
conditions, laws for accidents, laws for working in the
mines and nany other laws for their protection and welfare.
Those ill and sick who are ot Iikely to be exenpted
fron labor sorvice and yet can ot ne t the vigorous
requirements of t e factories are either put i to research
laboratories to help the research work (College stud nts)
or asked to romain in the schoole to help the mobilization
work (school boys). Some prefectures and countie have
made plan: to roup all those weak and ick : tud nts together
to make them perfor: liht dutles o the far and at the same
time to al ow ther to recuporate. he covernment is also
drafcin plans for looking after and helping the  obilized
students as a whole.
THE  OSI LATIO. OF  IGHE SOHOOL PTUDE TS.
wuestion: Why are the ight chool :tudents not mobili-
zea?

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.97)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 307 - page 12
CUNGKING
21 FEB 1945
answer: ight schools are designed for those who have
occupations in the duy tIme. at the present time practically
all the ni ht school students have occupations in the daytime
and those who have no regular work are not admitted. There
might be some loafers mixed In the n1ght school, but once they
are discovered they will be obilized as well Here lies the
responsibility of the  lght school authorities; they have to
Investigate all the students and turn in al! those who have no
regular work in the daytime; falling this, the carless school
will be closed.
THE LODILIATIO OF SCHOOL TaACRARS A D STAFWS.
uestion: we have often heard that those teachers and
staff mombers who are acting as group leaders are not very
popular witn the stud nts. Is that so?
Answer: There are instances to how that the group
leader's are :ometimes not sincere in their attitude towards
the stude ts, or are they on intimate terms with them.
But so e of those arise fro the character of the work or
from workine condition: in the factorles, and this phenomenon
Is not very wide spread. on tho other hand there are rany
anthuslastic leaders who have et good examples for the
students by hard work. Consoquent y, many tudents were
moved to toars and the production vas Increased. As it 1s
Impossiule Ior the covernnent to take up every detailed
proble. and incoenizance of t e fact that the duties performed
by the roup leaders ay not very satisfactory, the government
has recently issued a series of oiders to the teachers con-
cerning the principles of guiding the tudents. These prin-
ciples should be the cuiding posts for future training.
In short, the molilization of teachers and taff members
is dofi itely :tated and their relation to the students
clearly pecified in the present Student obi izat on Decree".
Hence the procedure of obilization can be correlated closely
with other forms of nobilization.
COMPENSA TIO AND RLADS.
uestion: There are many complaints about rewards, for
example, in so e schools no reward or pay is siven to the
student laborer, and the excuse for this is that this is the
policy of the mi istry of ducation.
Answer: The rowards are not on the sa e basis in the
varlous factories and plants, but this is inevitable. In

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.96)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 307 - page 13
CHUNGKING
21 FEB 1945
the matter of rewards the inistry of Educatlon has set a
definite standard and scale, distinguishing between ordinary
rewards and special rewards. Furthermore, the managers of
the plants are asked to cooperate and to follow government
regulations in the matter of giving rewards and payments.
The detailed articles regarding this at'er which were deft
out in the provious regulations issued by the  Inistry of
sducatlon are :tated defi Itely I the presont regulations
just is: ued. The co plalnts may either arise from misunder-
standing, or fro. total ignorance of the new regulation.
Cortainly the inistry of Educatlon has ot tated anything
in the reoulations which prohi its the iving of proper
rewards to the stude t workers. although the rew rds given
are meagre. they are paid to the hands of every individual
student. If there are so e scho 1: which do ot fol ow the
rogulation: of the inistry of ducation then we have to
take dra: tic :teps to seo that the regulations are followed
strictly.
01 14 1 F C1A TS.
question:
Why are tho civil servants of the covernment
mobi ized too?
answer: owine to the emereney of the present war, the
urgent demand for stre thening the fighting force, especially
the fihtin force of the Air Arm, the great denand of labor
and the pressure of transportation, we ust mobilizo the civil
servants. It is laughable if our war effort is to be handi-
capped by the shortage of labor. Further ore, in the present
year (1944), as the main body of the age groups fror 19 to 20
has entered the barracks it is neces ary to robilize citizens
of every tratum as a counter measure.  That is, in addition
to the various policier of the past, the obilization of civil
servants is  ut on an oqual basis vith the robilization of
students and the : obilization of women.
THA ATUA- OF THHL UBILIZATION.
uestion: This is neces ary, but how about the scope of
mobilization?
Answer: That will depend on the demands of the war.
Owine to tho repeated ad inistrative readjustments in the
past, the civil sorvants still remaining all have i portant
affairs of state to perform: consequently they cannot be
mobilized for a long time. The present arrangement is to
let them perforn their own duties, but from time to time
they are mobilized to help farming.

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.96)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
Tx 307 - page 14
CHUNOKING
21 FEB 1945
Questlon: When you permit them to have their own status
in the government and at the same time mobilize them, then
how about the discipline in tho new environment?
Answer: Although per itting ther to rotain their
former position, in the place where they are mobilized to work
they have to obey the orders of the bosses of the new environ-
ments under whom they are  orking as regards to the matter of
working hours and holidays, w ich i: stated definitely in the
decree. Besides, they are requested to work harder than the
rest so a: to set a ood example for the others. Therefore,
the obilized civil sorvants have actually become staff members
of tue  lants or factorles and such places where they aremobi-
lized to work.
TCIOIA    OPL  FACTORLES.
wuostion: here are you going to send the various groups
of civil sorvants to work?
answer: Techmiclans of the cover oment services forn the
main object of the present obilization. In general, they
should be raduates of industrial chools and technical col-
leees a d have the technical knowledge of mechanical, electri-
cal, metallur ical arnd che ical engineerin which can be used
In the auroplene factorles. at present, the required tech-
nicians are selected fron the general ad inistrative offices
of the ovornment and from the teachimg taffs of the middle
school:. They are se t to the a roplane factories to be
trained as the backbone of the a roplane iudystry.
wuestion: what abo t the procedure of obilization?
answor: Firstiy, the munber of tochnleians roquired is
fixed uy a conference between the Ministrle: of lublic Welfare,
Munition and the Bureau of eronautles. Then the numbers to
be :up lied by the variou: sovernmental departments are dis-
cussed i a meetine, purticipated in by the delegates of the
varlous dopartaents in questlon. Lastly, the  inistry of
rublic welfare Is ues orders to the respective local autho-
rities of the di:tricts and prefectures where the technicians
are workine. On the othor hand, the various d partments are
requested to tond in the names of the techn'eians to the
local aut oritlos of the places where the mobilized tochnicians
are sent to work.
Actis upon the instructions issued by the  inistry of
Fublic elfare a d based on the Iist of namos handed in, the

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.97)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
Th 307 - page 15
CHUNGKING
21 FEB 1945
local authorities will confer with the general administrative
department of the inistry of Munitions deciding the places
and occupation to which each individual techniclan shall be
as igned. The result of the decision is sent to the various
departments and  inistries in question.
THE PROBLAL OF DTATUS AND RARDS.
Question: Lastly how about the question of :osition and
rewards?
Answer: As stated before the : obilized civil servants
will still retain their former positions In the government;
consequently they are entitled to receive the former pay,
the various war subsidies and other  pecial allowances from
their respeetive departments or officer. Besides, they are
allowed to receivo a subsidy for dangerous work in the
chenical warfare factories, but they are not supposed to
roceive other subsidies such as food subsidies and travelling
subsidies from the factorles. Moreover, travelling expenses
and othor expenses related with official busines: are allowed
if they are within the 1i it of the regulations of the govern-
ment. As to other noney rowards, unless permitted by the
authorities, the obilized civil servants are not al owed to
receive them.
In the end of the workin perlod it is oustomary for
the employers to ive rome noney present to the mobiiized
technician as a sign of gratitude; thoy are not allowed to
receive the money unless it is permitted by the authorities.
Typist: szetu, Cheh
For .T.C.
T. M.B.

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.96)
(Enclosure no. 10 to despatch no. 259, March 27,)
(1945 from the American Embassy, Chungking, China.)
CO-ORD INATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 325
CHUNGKING
27 PEB 1945
TRANSLATIONI N.A./JOHN YANG
ACTION: F.B.A.
INFO: OSS R & A
EMBASSY —
- Pile
FRas TaIRIkU TOYO KAIZAl (Continental Oriental Eoonomy)
published in REIJO (SEOUL). 25 September 1944
THE CO-FERATLON DETWEEN THE HANCHURIAN HEAVY INDUSTRY CO. AND THE
FINANCIAL CLI UES (This is a summary.)
Takasaki (高 奇). the Director of the anohurian Heavy Industry Co.
has attempted to aonieve oo-operation botween the Manonurian Heavy Industry Co.
and the finanoial oliyues of Japan; and starting from last autumn this plan has
been gradually realized.
The development of the industries of Manohuria has been planned by the
Lauchurian Heavy Industry Co. sinoe the and of 1937. when this Company was estabe
lished. Altnough Japanese oapital had been invested in Manohuria long before
through the South anohurian hailway Co.. the oapitalists of Japan had had no
conoern witn the undertakings of the Manohurian Heavy Industry Co.
of course, Japanese capital& had invested already in some of the other
speoial oompanles, out they had not invested in any enterprises co-operating
direotly wdth the Manohurian Heavy Industry Co. Consequently. the new tendenoy
toward close co-operation between Mangyo (满 Manohurian Heavy Industry Co.)
and plutoorates of Japan should be regarded as a notable event. The oooperatien
with the three financial cliques of Japan -- Mitsui. Mitsubishi. Sumitomo -- is
speoially notable.
This kind of cooperation was realized in two industrial spheres: ohemioals
and light metals. More, we can count four enterprise companies, data on whioh are
tabulated below.

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.95)
325/P.2
Chairman of
Name of Company
Nominal Capital
Investor
Manager
Board of Direotors
(Paid up capital)
South yanohurian Chemioal
Yon 10.000.000
Japan Chemioal
TAKASÁZI TatsunoBuke
IKEDA Kamesabmo
Products Co.
(Yen 2,500,000)
Produots Co.
(高碕達三助)
(池田龜三郎)
(南滿化成工业)
(日本化成)
(Sstablisned in Deo. 1943)
Yen 5.000.000
Langyo yen 2,500,000
Lanchurian Iron.
Products (滿洲製鐵)
Yen 2.500.000
Continental Chemioal
Yen 10.000.000
Mitsui Chomical
IMAI Tominoouke
Industry(大陸化學工業）
(Yen 2.500.000)
(三井化學)
(今井富之助)
(Established in Mar. 1944)
yen 5.000.000
Mangyo Yen 2,500,000
Manohurian Iron
Products Yon 2.500,000
sumitomo (住友本社)
Antung Light Metal
Yen200.000.000
ARAKAWA E1J1
(安東輕金屬)
(Yen 50,000,000)
Yen 100.000,000
(荒川英三)
(Established in Apr. 1944)
Mangyo Yen 50.000.000
Manohurian Light
otal.(滿洲輕金属)
Yen 50,000,000
Manchurian Light Alloy
Yen 50.000.000
Mangyo Yen 25,000.000
KASUGA Hiroshi
(春日弘)
Industry
(yen 12.500.000)
Sumitomo Yen 25.000.000
(滿洲輕合金工業)
(Established in May 1944

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.97)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
27B 1945
TR 325/P. 3
CHUNGKING
The south Manoburia Chemioal Produots Industry was established last years
and as the investor, Japan Chemioal Produots Industry (日 本 化 成). belongs to
itsubishi and was combined with Asahi Glass (旭 硝 子 ) this spring to form one
of the biggest of the synthetic ohomical industries. the development of thts Company
will meet our expeotations. rhe ain of this enterprise is to handle chemieal
produots, inoluding matorials, dorivatives, and by-produots.
in Maroh this year. The Witsui Chemioal Co. subsoribed half of its capital. sinee
the Mitsui Chemical Co. wes separated from the Mitsui Mining Co. and was established
on the foundation of the Fukul Prefaoture Factory (福 岡 縣 工 場) of toui
Mining, it has a better history than Witsubishi Chemieal Produots. The fact that
the two Companies, the South Manchurian Chemioal produots and the Continental
Chemioal Industry, have oapital from the Menchuriah Iron Manufaoture Co. shewe the
olose relation between the iron and chemical industries.
Antung Light Metal (安東 輕金属) was atablished in April this year.
Conneoting the eleotric power of westorn Korea and the alumina of the continent, the
light metal field of the continent will inorease its produotion. of course, the
Manohurian Light Metal Co. used to produce fairly good produots, but tris oo-
operation with Sumitomo will improve its teohnique.
The Manohurian Light Alloy Industrial Co. was established in May this year.
As we knov already this Company produoes and processes nou-ferous motals or alloys.
Its position is intermediate between the produotion of raw materials and that of
finished products. As tnis is the weak point of the meohanioal industry of Manohuria.
one oxpeotations will be met.
Not only in the sphere of oapitals. but also in that of teohnique. The
oooperation with the Japanese finanoial cliques will strengthen the weak points of
wangyo and will raise the 1ndustrial level of Manchuria.
Typist, N. Y. CHEN
For C. T. C.

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.94)
(Enclosure no. 11 to despatch no. 259, March 27,)
(1945 from American Embassy, Chungking, China.)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 265
CHUNGKING
27 JAN. 1945
THANDLATTON: O.N.I./.L.CHIEN
ACTION: O.W.I.
INFO: Embassy
Os, Major
Stevens.
File
Faom: Th- Iagazine JIhYorU JoHo (Current Information)
Published in T0rY0, 5 september 1944.
PREDENT CC DIILON IN F.ILIPPINA ISLANDS
 -- AS SEB FROM
CABINET  HUFFLE(
(By  Onl HITa Haruichi
Coniidence In Prerid nt LAUnEL.
The r.li Iri I in rnPiLIc, which atlained it: indepen-
dence o. Cct. 14 1943 hac made great strides towards the
placine of the IHI IPrI  IsLaNDS on a war footing under
the leadert hip of rresident LaUcl. ith the growing
seriousness in the Pacific war situation, the picture of
the FnIlIriI IsLa D: suddenly becomes exceptionally
colorfui. ACaR HUa. (formorly C-in-C of AmerLcan force
in Inl.ii.I I LANDs ) Commander-in-Chief of the A lied
forces in outheastern ASIA, who fle fron bATAAy PE"I ULA
in  arch of 194s, is greedily looking forward to the re-
capture of the PHInIPrI  ."During the ilitary conference
held in July in HawaII last July, it is said that he
objected to the plan of attacking JAPAn directly and pre-
vailed upon no0: vT with the idee of raiding the 1HIi If-
Il. fir:t. As a matter of fact, the .s. force: have
recently begun the air attacks on DAVao in the  INDAllAO
ItLaNDs as a herald to their landing operation. lowever.
it is difficult to predict which direction the  I Ir4
offent ive it pointine. vidently, the enemy i: seeking
some midway base from which they hope to :pring their
attack on JAiAi Ornn.
Und r such war condition:, the faith of iresident
Lau.. i ot in the lea't haken es showe by his outery
that the permanent Ladependence of the i' ILIf-I m would
be i I os ible without JhPh 's victory On the memorial
day of the fir. t year of the F InIr I ns's iudependence
last august the rrosid nt broadcasted as follows:
"From tho inception of her independence, Bihin has
been enga d i a igantic wer. The fact that the entire
Burme e ruce i: devoting themaelves today to their o:t
courageou: war against the enemy cormands the respect of
the Filipino race
If Bur a tands as the back-door of

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.93)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 265 - page 2
CHUNGKING
27 JAM. 1945
the Sphere of Co-prosperity: then the PHILIPPINKS mmy be
considered as its Southeastern portal. The two countries
are sharing the burden of shaping the destiny of kAsT
ASIn."
Thus he expedited the self-awakening and apiritual
revival of the entire people who are burning with the de-
termination to share their destiny with JAPAN. The most
happy phenomenon in the eyes of the Pilipine people 1s
the positive cooperation that the entire cabinet ls extend-
ing to rresident LaUnaL.
In the era of the ommonwealth with wUsZoN as the
head, 1t i: true that LAunsL did not possess any higher
position than hi: other cabinet colleagues. BsIu O S.
aIn(?)(べ
. : .px '), the present cheirman of
the rarllui.out and vice-diroctor and business manager of
nahIarl (:) (), (the new ervice League of
the rIlIrt I s) was olocted a rarliment member to the
Lower lHouce thirty-five years ago at the age of twenty-
five and corved as the . inister of agriculture and Com-
merce undur the UOi. jovernment. ANUL HOAs ?)
(v & I 4. u ), the prosent director of the economic
plan i, bourd served as chairwan of the lower parliament
at the yoar of 30 and was prominant as an anti-uuezonist.
He lator became the inister of Finance and was nominated
as a candidate Jor fresident at one time. Besides, there
are Can . o (Y) (7 .I  7 ), the Foreig
Minister, 1INDN PanDs (?) (AI  ), the
new .ini tor of Justice, RaFa . laN (?) (7 P1
1. .p t), the . inister of gricultural resources and
Jus Yul.o ( t t . I u ), chalrman of the upreme Court,
all of who.: were fanour statesnan In the prewar days.
It is a fuct that they were not o: good terme with  hAi.
befor, but ow after one yoar of lndependence, all pre-
vious isundarstanding have been dispelled and they have
become members of the LalRal Fa ily, so to speak. nder
LaUlal's leadership they are now set Ing an oxample in the
reconstruction of the war-tine PHILIlrIiS.
Cablnet noshufflo and  trengtheuing of ar tire truc
ture.
ro: icce IalinL avoided an abrupt change in organi-
zation und per onmel fror: the 1litary overnnent to the

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.94)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
Th 265 page 3
CHUN GI.ING
27 JAN. 1945
civil overnment and made tie change by gradual transition.
The six Departments of the Central Administrative Office
unuer the ilitary Government became the six inistries
after the Independence and their chiefs were promoted to
the position of  inisters of the new overnment.
rresident Launal, former chief of internal affairs,
became con-curre tly the minister of the Interior. vith
the establi hment of the oreign. inistry, nakUTo (?)
(-
) was made the firet  oreign Minister and VanGAS
(?) (
), former xecutive Chief, was appointed
as the Ambas: ador to Jafan. Further ore, in January this
year, the . ini: try of griculture and Comnerce was changed
Into the ii:iy of oricultural .e: ources and the  inistry
of cono.ics; and tne inistry of ducation and Iublic wel-
fare was divided up into tho inistry of ducation and the
Ministry of Labor & Public welfare.hus, ni e inistries
were co pleted out of the former seven inistries. nt the
same time ntliAN (?) () was appointed as the
inister of Agricultural nesources and  I UA O TEIRONA
(Y) (
'), head of the vocational bureau
was appointed us the iister of abor and ublic lelfare
Thus, the Iresident i: s rvine today as inister of Interior,
ducutio and conomics con-currentiy.
dowever, the Cabinet reorganization hich took p'ace
on 4th uut vas centered upon the inistry of Interior
which is responsible for the  aintairence of peace. The
empty chair of the Interior  inister was filled by HIton
(?) (  ) for urly Con isioner of National Defense and
Minister of Justice. imultaneously, IanaDes (?) ( x).
the min ister or Civil constructio and Com unications was
made the  i ister of Justice and Josn Vafs (?) (),
chief of civil defenso corps, was uprointes as his succes-
sor. Io BIDe(
), te chief secretary, was
appointed . inister of cono ics. as early as May, CA 1 I0
OCIAS (?) (
) had iven up hie nost as
vice director of the purty to AuI o ("  ) the chair an
of the rarliare t, to mecore the ini ter of ducation.
In this vdy the dif erent inistrles were subatantiated
by havine responsible person" placed ut thoir top
As it i. wel kuow, the  II IPi Ils Govern ent does
not poe er: any mational defonse Army. and accordiegly

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.94)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TH 265 - page 4
CHUNGKING
27 JAN. 1945
there will be no need for a Ministry of National Defense.
In order to back up the  inistry of Interior which is
responsible for the maintainence of peace and the func-
tion of economic policing the fresident has appointed
General GUILLhi.O(
) FRaNCISCo to be responsible
for peace maintainence to assist sHIso (?) (), in
addition to vice-i ister AnUCENTO BONIFACIO: (?) (
). The former was chief of the National
Defense .inistry under x-President Un40N in October 1939
and since then has becore the authority on national defense
and peace aintainence together with Lsor GITo (?) ( .
 ) his Iormer a istant and the present mayor of
MANILA. FALDLSU(
). the new : inister of
Justice formerly served as attorney General, inister of
Justice, and Chairman of the Lower House and has been
quite influencial in the political field. His return to
the post of I ister of Justice from the  inister of
Civil and Con unicat on:, which he recentiy held, is really
colorful and ratifying. r  VaYas (?) (
(), who
joined the Cabinet as Civil and Communications I inister
for the fir t ti...e, was head of Civil Construction Bureau
in pre-wur day: a d was munager of the  Al Iln Hailway Cor-
poration just beiore ths outbreak of the lacific ar. He
Is considored as an authority on civil construction and
conmunicationt I: the  mIP I b and It is expected that
throuch his vmeretic activition, all clvil construction
and transportation question: wili be satisfactorily rolved
in the future. re SasiDo (?) (
), the ew
Lconomic Lnister piay: n important ro e in the 1 TllI Ina
industrial circles and was ihnt umental in allevinting the
crisis of the a n ne p i mustry i 1P40 es chair an of
the fiemp and Iiber hesoclation. After the war he served
as chairman of the Phll.Ifr Il Hemp arsociation and contri-
bute uch to ite pla itins vork and indeed is a very
brilliant indu: trialist i the PIn IFiI  ISLANDS. Further-
more, nohas () ( ) direetor of the conoric lanning
Board entered the new Cabinet ar a inister of  tate He
is determined to stake evorythine vith rrenide at LAliued
and hi pasticipation in the new uovernment ad is  uch to
its woiat.
At the hanlbaPI (?) (
) plenary ses: ion
of the ontire ral.IrrI us heid i the metronolitan theatre
in ManILa last June, AOilas: (?) (
) vas lominated as
a member of the co:n itteo for tho preparatior of indepen-
dence and he was che red by the athering una ioously.

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.96)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 265 - page 5
CHUN GK IN G
27 JAN. 1945
From this we can see how popular he is among his country-
men. Unfortunately, his poor health forbids hin to work
too hard but he is doing his best to help carry out the
policies of Fresident LAURAl. During the meeting of rice
producers which took place in MANILA city hall on July 21
of this year, he made the following scathing remarks to
500 absentee landowners who part1cipated.
"The fore ost problem of our country today is rice.
I believe that you all wish to join the ranks and march
forward to the front line of rice production. You have
no stocks of rice on hand and yet there is not one day
that pas: es without &,00o byo (bale) bein transported into
maxInA. where does thi: rIce cone from anyway? The rice
is sup osed to remain intact in your hands in TanlAc (9 L
), NUA (?) (
), and CIJA () (in
Central Lu4On) I would like to have your pledges of the
amount of rice that you will contribute." He showed in
no uncertain ters his attitude toward the absentee land-
owners who have delayed in making contributions of their
products. Thus tho raILIPrINa Government es a wer Cabinet
has developed its powers and has completed its preparations
for a 1i ht to the rinish against the nCaBtHoR and NIr ITZ
offensive.
Traneformation Fron a Supply Base to a Front Line.
However, what are the actual war conditions recently
in the PilllprIae I LaNDs? When we think of the Filipinos.
we cannot help but bring to wind the picture of dancing
and music. Fowever, starting from 1st of August, ni ht
clubs and cabarets which used to  o mad over peculiar dances
were closed down. This is the way it should be, as the
healthy spirit of the Filipinos was i: paired and a hot-
bed 1or evil was bred as a censequence. sven dance maniaer
such as tho rrench have prohibited thi sort of thing long
ago in mn CH InDo CHINA. Incidently fror the JOth the
businet: hours for re taurant:, bare, and eating houres
have ben re: tricted to 8 p.m. Ihe one soup end one dish
menu is strictly enforced. soup may be either of eat
(beef, pork, chicken, etc ) or firh or firh spaw or noodles
and a choice of either soo rans of rice or 7o rame of
bread can be made. In the FuI Iri Iis ISL.iDS which used
to puzzle over what to do with the sugar produced, people
must now wait for the ration day in order to get their
supply. although the home of copra, soap is nov being

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.93)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 265 - page 6
CHUN GKING
27 JAN. 1945
rationed. The same thin. i true with tobacco for the
productio. of which the riILIfI s is famous.
The PnIlIPrINE IsLAllDs which used to be the supply
base has Decome the front-line. Blackouts are now enforced
and air precaution drills are practiced. verywhere in
MalIla. air raid dugouts are constructed. Defense and
protection corps are organized in all prefectures, towns
and villages. The formation of first aid squads, fire
squads and derolition squads are under way. Further ore,
the Conmittee for the evacuatio of residents in MA ILA
was formed on July 8. On that occasion AnUCslIA RlisU (?)
(
), head of the Information Bureau, made
the fol owing announcement: "The  ILIF T IsTalD has
now come within the radius of possible enemy air attack.
Ilowever, the city is handicapped with a surplus of popu-
lution cuused by iocal residen's and "igrants. For the
purpose of ini izing the derae in the case of air raids.
this curplus population must be adjusted right away as far
as possible. In the meantime, tho cifficulties with re-
gard to food-stuffs, housing and transuortation are being
ageravateu. For thi: reeson it is ur ent for the Govern-
mont to take fast and dra tic action on ovacuation measures."
And on august j8 conpulsory ovacuation vas ordered. asaa
resuit oi this order, those who did not reside in nl ILa,
prior to becember 8th 194l, with the exception of the
Japanese forces, erployeor of Japanese conpanies end of-
ficials of the PHll IrrIl. Covernment, were striclly pro-
hibited. it is expected to hrire dowr the present popu-
latlo.. of 1z0,000 to something below 75,000 of pre-war
days by this means. Then again on the isth of August, the
Mal.lla Jentral nesidence Com ittee ade an u ouncement to
the fol lowine effect: "Out of obligationr aricin from
the Japanose-rhilippine Alliance. n artch cl ose coopera-
tion for the territorial Interrity a d indopendonce of
the rmlrllrI TeLanp was pled ged by hoth ides, the PI
LIrt Ine overnment has nov the reepon ihility of furnish-
Ing barrack facilities within the jimits of Mn Il. for the
stationine of Japanese troops i the ur Ir: Ia Iolnmm
Furthermore 0 (?)(
) theyor of T
has douieuated the reace soulovard fecing  I Bay for
military use navi us closed the dis trict to general p blic
since wueu t zl; ne has al o prohihited the ure of all
frontal 1  iacnces facing the coart. Fro, these evidences

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.94)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 2 65 - page 7
CHUNGKING
27 JAN. 1945
we can et some idea of the emergency conditions in the
FhIIPrIas at the present time.
Cleanin Up the Remnants of American Influence.
However, among a certain section of the Filipinos,
there is still left a yearning for AMhICA which gives
ground for enemy espionage and designs. The spy net
recent!y unearthed by our gendarmes was proad under the
shadow of a Catholic alter. It was found that CHarls
PanbON (?) the secret emissary of Colonel VANS who was
chief of the American special" ervice Section(?) stationed
in the PhI irrIs pefore the war had slippe into the
Pill IP Ivs and was using the Church of the Immaculate
Conception as nis underground headquerters where ne
planned the organizatio of the espionage ystem. e
had established contact with acting General FrtTaIhk
(?) (
), Commander of the uerilla forces
of the entire rnIi IrrI s and schemed for the unified
control of various gueril a eroups wIth the hope of ex-
panding tneir activitles by radually emli ting the sorvices
of all anti Japanese element:. In the peenti e, Lieute.
nant Commmander rnl i) vho vun ith the merican forces
in aT u isLnrD, had estatliuhed a radlo tation at a
corner or . invono loLanD whieh cormands a full view of
banILa bay at a glance. Fror there secret intelligence
is actively maintained with enemy bases in at malIn
and the vouTH w.1 FAOiF1C Furtherrore, Commander CI0.
the Intel igence chief of the luerille unit of the U.s.
Far Lastorn forces, alias the Filipino named Frn Co BanA
nLlLs (?) (
), editec and published
strange anti-Japanese literature and distributed it among
variou: groups. Finally. there are now present many
subvereive elenents who are making frantic efforts in col-
lectine money or Turnish liason quaters for the sake of
the guerilias. it goes without saying that the mo t urgent
task in tne PalbIh Lne IslanDs today is to do ar ay with
all po:sibilities ror the oreanization of such en esp'on-
age not.
although some of these melcontent are trying to
turn the rnIeir. INes into a battleground, the trend of
the seneral public i. to shun the reoc ure ce of the
tragedies of war. although la lhn was d elered en open
city the last ti e she was made vo suffer fron tho

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.89)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 265 - page 8
CHUNGKING
27 JAN. 1945
ravages of war and consequently has grown tired of fight-
ing. nd herein lies the key policy of the LAURaI Govern-
ment toward the people. Last June President LAURaL placed
the unicipality of  A Il. which used to be under the con-
trol of the inistry of Interior, directly under the Iresi-
dent, thu: hopine to deal with urgent matter: more efrici-
ently. Furthernore, for the purpose of attairing sroothness
and strength in local government, he divided the entire
PhIlIrlh Itn D. into :even control districts in the
later part of au u:t. at the head of each of +hese dis-
trict: a local executive Corrissloner was placed and by
thus directly supervi: ing the ad inirtration and finaice
of local  overent:, it i: expected that rolitical power
wil. pe otrate tirouh ne to ta trative tructure.hat
attract ur tte t psnecie iy  the coveloprent of
the pooreove t of r  (?) ( I  ) as
a revivul f the neittee pertybe lu ove eut.
which  a i eo o tc: ocy her tound It f in e taauant
state, co. so s a wa out through the turni of the organi-
zatio. ito molitic:l chene
retur. a a peciel nvoy to Jala for the exchan e of
courtesiur o the oc us iou of ihi io ine indeponde cs, ade
his  is.t pab le tne en  a teur erourd the country before
tes(
in
steleore s foow
"I belleve tlt ot a few a ory my co patriot: are
viewine he real ity of the Jndependence which we now e joy
with skepticise snd dis trust. the hack rouna of their
apprehe.. iu is the cifficulty of ecoromic livelihoed
and the arris on of Japanese troops. ar e resrlt of the
present ar the piulr:1  Iseavbs has sovered horself
entirely fron the pararitic life dpendia upen s ..
whether we obtalr idependence or ot. it is to be ex-
pected that sconomic cifrlculties will be experienced end
we ust co sidor the dircomforts in our ecopo ic life e
beins ontirely separate fro the uertion of iudependence
Dut the arri on of Jupopose roop pufleces pothin ox-
cept Jainn's si coriuy in ovin t e IT n I Iolh Ds.
It shoulu be cary to recoanize thal at the present junc-
ture, the order of the IliIl, T  can ot be meintained
by our hencs alone. we ought to tmou the 'i its of our
capabi ities st the presert ptage pre ve  et dependim
upon tue Japer ere Arm to rerulse 'be et ect cim le ha ded,
shoule there be cir raid: or landi here on the part of
Almica? The retur of the apericene will rean the ruin
of the nlllfiI. o. inder these rave ciroustances, the

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.95)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 265 - page 9
CHUNGKING
27 JAN. 1945
greatest part that you can contribute is to cooperate
Implicitly with the Government. Only by this means can
the government succeed to develop its functions to the
full extent and enhance the happiness of the people."
In this way ahI o ( ) has captivated the hearts of
the Filipino: and his way of thinking is indeed a guid-
ing exanple of hahIBarI ( ) ideology.
Now anI 0 ( ) has placed under his direct control
the Department of Propaganda and Campaigning as well as
the Department of rolitical affairs, thus opening up a
powerful popular movement. Its objective is not only to
defend the PiIllrr INn IsLanDs ar specified in the Japanese-
Philippino .lliance but also to heighten the spiritual
consciou ne: of the people to such an extent af to even
declare var on A ICA and  GLalD. The I II IlPIN ISLAnDS
as a natio i: nov narching on the unison toward the goal
of a war-time structure.
Typist: szetu. Cheh
Por C.T.0.
7.8.B.

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.90)
(Enclosure no. 12 to despe tch no. 259, March 27,)
(1945 from American Embassy, Chungking, China.)
COO  E TED TRAUSLAT ION CENTER
Th 272
.
7 JAN. 1945
:I./L.C
ACT ION: O.W.I.
L: OS STEPHENS
mbassy
G-2
- file
urrent nfetien)
Puplohee o ro, 26 o ter ber 104
(伊藤金次郎)
niorcement o1 conscription ysten
1. the and o' eptember, all newapapers in the Capital
uliomed an accont of the cere onial services conducted by the
ormcran residents in Tonyo, together with representatives of the
ormesan eayue an other patrtots, in front of the IU ( 重)
ridge in exoreesin their profound gratitude to the Emperor for
tae peat und I iv itless kin inese in extending the cons cription
syster to the eeeus cr o
 tirle obrcco,ooo are now
recooste fror the 1st of Sep
tember, i obed i ce te the wpertal wish or "putting Jaraw and
on thePootin"wbeer the tundamental policy
ven ince as taken inte the folds of the Tapanese Empire.
This step,  course, is in consequence of the Cabinet decision
uhe on He septerber last year to the following efieet:
e conscr iotion systen is to be applied to the compatriots
of ro v and stes shall be taken so that enlistrent shall be
possitle beg inrin fror the Pise l ye n of 1946."
n the occar on of the Tiiticth anm iversary of the Formosan
Admin istr atior in 1 45 wher the re-orientation of policies is to
be expected, suc.  epoch-makinitt to the people of FOriosA not
only Pills the heart of every Tormosan with gratitude but satisfies
the anbitione ot all t ose concerne with FOrlosA through the
knowledge of the f ct that all Porosans are in a position to train
therselves therou hly to be sult le as subjects of the Japanese
impire.
As a matter e fact, the 6,c00, 000 islanders in FOhMOSA, bearing
fruit from the traaitional administration under a long string of
Governors which has for its basic the plac ing of POnMÖsA on an equal
footing with , are now thoroughly familiar with the ideology
of the umperial subject and, spurrea by pure patriotism under the
great war, have contributed funds toward national defense or vo-
lunteered for work on the preparation of lands for public use.
specially, the young men are receiving the same kind of war-time
training in the schools and factories as those in JAPAN and their
red blood is seething with the fighting spirit of destroying the
enemy.

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.93)
COLLN TLD TRANLATION NTER
Tn 272 - P. 2
CHJIGALIG
27 JAN. 1945
 they have entered the preparatory period for the enfore
ent or the conscription system, the young men are now keeping
both their body and mind in pure and healthy condition in anti-
cipation of tie rrival of tomorrow's glory.
If we shoul t rm the pages o" the Colonizational history of
the vorle, where clee coule we n such a nation united both
interr all u ter ally a   ch or ogeneous fus fon of new
territories is ccorplished in such a short timei Indeed it
might be said that our ormosan r mistration is one of the things
that we may well be proud of.
In the past te special velunteer system for both the Army
and avy ns beer instituted and already many young men have bravely
I it their barrac s in military c uipment ana have shed blood in
umerous battlefields.ow many other young men who have been
enlisted through conscription wil set out from here to fight for
the victory of t e otherl and.
t i not s risin t at tae acial expression of the Formosans
livine in   wv took part in tme worshin in front of NIJd
bridge besore an  the lst or otember showed inv incible ga
Ilanttr,  the st cehere or peverw ce.
,(長 谷 ), the overnor- cenersl of Fomosa took
offiee in becember 1  ao an etive ereral. n the year that
Polto ed, the 
  var broke out and the brave and
deterr ined apanese mperial forces suddenly swept over and occupied
the vartous distriets in the o ot.
he eorraical pos itior c  is said to be equivalent
to 'tue nub of the fan in our euthwara advance. consequently its
politieal un strategical value is now greatly enhanced.  At that
time, m d veiced his opinion as follows:
"ro dek serves as a miaway e mply base and commands a key
position u trans ortation. The consolidation of the military,
overmrent and civ il groups of tae entire islend will transform it
into an unsinkable ireraft carrler. Tn this way her unique cha-
racteristics will te fully develoned so as to enable her to con-
tribute her part to the great war effort."
It is a well-known fact that the suitability of Fon Os as
pointed ot by the overmor-leneral is being transformed into a
battlefield characteristic with the change of the war situation.
Therefore, the characteristics remarked upon by the Governor-General
are proceeding to "make FOiOsA fortress."
a
In other words, the I4Ira ofrensive, which invaded the Inner
South Seas, the AcTJ. offensive, which points toward the

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.94)
D  
Th 272 - P. 3
CHUNGKING
from  GUINEA, and the activities of the 
πerica air forces --- the objective of operatioms of my
these cannot fail to have an imnortant bearing on FoF'osl.
of the moerial o land.
will try to cut through c Lia in slande (  
establ ish contact with the Americ r air forces In sduih tm.
is to say one well naturally suspect that they will aim  fa
ceptLg the TiA F FOusA and thus isolate the South
istricts of war resources from our Imperial homeland.  
teck over the rer  ibility ror this foremost battle zone 
 C.(福 , was mare the Comnanler in-Chier ofh
(blan aval "crcse istrict aroceeded to consoidatethe
the he ts of t .t re pecule c o. n coordinatiom w
this, the sovernrent-General deci c: on adjustment of the outlime
or the tittlefiel structure of   v and on 5 August with 
trative phase in thc face of the eremy.
in connection with my duties and responsibilities I happen t
outl ines. mder scorching heat and stifl ing sand storms, General
Commission and together with Chlef Secretary KOZAWA (-J.) 
other related epart ent heade and ureau chiefs met in the offiefel
residence of the Chief Administrative Officer and racked their
brairs in the constructior o? the rinistrative side or "Fortified
rUrOsa". if the islanders could have witnessed the scene with
their own eyes, their hesrts would certainly be filled with re
titude and respect.
in that occasion Chief Administrative Officer SAiro made the
following remarke:
"In time of war it is a matter of course that the Government
should offer everything in their power and place everything at
the disposal of military requirements. Especially in the case of
FOOSA where great magnitude in battlefieid transformation is
called for, it is not out of place that a sort of military flayow
should permeate into all phases of the civil administratiem. m
other words, the adjustment outlines of the battlerield strueture

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.96)
CO-OND NATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 272 - P. 4
CHUNGKING
as proclaimed by the Gevermment-General resently, has as
consistant sharacteristic the exclusive servise to war
and nothing else."
re-recognize the iportance or.  on a battlefield footi
tify the fighting spirit as well as to boost up the morale of
people as a whole.
Xartine Administration
The essence of this anjustrent outl ine is the complete mi
and coordination of the three supreme heads of FUnvosA, vise
the Governor-General, of FKMOSh, the Commander-in-Chief of
l'orces in FOnau, d the Commanding Officer of the (blamk)
and materials recuired for the defense work of the Ary m 
as well as for the persecution of  ar shall have first prierity 
mobilization. hc  jective shall be concentrated on the te
points of "strengthening the defens ive power" and "the eeememle
For the purmose o attairing thesc a ims, all government efriees
and other organizations on national policy shall be so direetes
to make the Army, overnment and populace into one body. And
battlefield at inistration possers ins the characteristies of
strength, simplicity and mobility is ccntemplated.
is to the method of procedure, two parallel administratioms
consisting of the Defense leadquarters of the Government-General
of FoA and theconomic obilization eadquarters of the
Government-General  Os slall be instituted. The tire
work of the Government-General is to be converted into, or absertel
by, these two organizations. Any other work of the Goverment
General or of its sutordinate offices is to be suspended or stopped
altogether. The surplus personnel caused by these measures is
to be transferred to the first line offices of outside distriete
or distributed sron? the productive sreas. The composition of the
above mentioned organizations is as follows:
(1) Defense :eadquarters
The Chief General Administrative Officer shall be made the
Chief of Defense "eadquarters and the Police Commissioner its
deputy-Chief. Three Departments Garrison, Air Defense and Reseue
Work shall be established to take care of the planning as well as
the enforcement of all matters concerning air defense, garrisem
and civil defense work in coordination with the operations of the
Army and Navy. Ali business of the former Commissiomaire of Palies
and Education are to be incorporated into the Defense Heedquerters.

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.95)
CO-OADINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
Th 272 - P. 5
CHINGKL:O
27 JA
Besides, the Public Service Association of the Imperial
(ccrresponding to the Imperial Rule Assistance Associatiom
FOOSA, the Medical College in NORTH FOMOSA, the Reser
on ropical Diseases, the Food-stuffs Association, the Hous
Association ani the ssociation of Doctors shall all partil
the Ary and avy, to rether v. it influential members of the moe
shall be appointe as its directors or staff members.
() conomic  cbilization  eadquarters
The Chief Administrative Officer shall serve conourrently s
Chier of this Headquartere end is charged with the respensibility
of formulating and executing the essential schemes for turming all
human an material power in FOnlosA into the total war effert im
collauciation with the oparations of the Army and Navy. The wesk
acall Le divided into six departments, vis., Hateriale and Supplie
Technical llle, eneral vobilization, Finance, Transportation
and Suprly of corrodities. All other commissions, departments m
sutsidiary offictr cf the overnment- eneral which are not com
trolled  the Tetense erlgu rter, cane under the umbrelle of
this organization. 'esidee, the ccntrolling association of busimo
groups, Corporatior., under the nat ional policy, and research
bureaus t also e to partic ipate. Like the Tefense Headquarte
classes of the soc lety are appointed as directors and staff m
of this 'eadquarters.
To sum ur, the ccneolicat icn of the total power of the Ay.
Govornment and the populace is literally contributing toward
"Tor tified FOu OsA" tnrough the construction of front-line pesitieme
Therefore, the administration of "fortiried FOsiosA" based upon
manpower end resources is tekiny concrete shape.
Defend the Island in any Circumstance
Fo.  has Lecme what she is today through our assiduous
support with blocd, tearc, anil love over a span of 50 long years.
Here the amiable ane simple TAkASoA (高 石y) race also lives me
the natives of Fo...sf who underetana the true essence of the
Imperial subjects are earnestly prayins for the growth and prosperity
of the Japanese mpire.
Ne are determined to hold FOn OSA intact. Even if there shall
be raids of several thousands of enemy planes or threats of fieree
bombardments from battleships off the ocean, the entire island,
through the internal unification of our spirit, shall become 
"iron ring" fortress and a dugout against air raids. We shall met
be afraid in the least, and at the bottom of my heart I strengay
believe that the enemy task force on the ocean near Fofmosa will e
smashed to bits one day by our high-spirited United Fleet.
(Written on 8 Sept. 1944 while unexpectedly returning to Jar)
For C. T. C. ..B.
Typist: Yang Chang-taun

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.87)
(Enclosure no. 13 to despatch no. 259, March 27,)
(1945 from American Embassy at Chungking, China )
CO-CRDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TH 347
CHPOING
10 AR 1945
./ 
ACTION: O..I.
TPO:P.A.
Embassy
File
Fro   II (ew nast  soonomy),
ruol1shed 1 T0kY0, Cctober 1944.
THE FOOD DL  HOTH CHIA S  P CONTROL
OF GONONY
 P lce produ tion of ata Por this yeaor is not
very o Ja r is expected to produce barely a
normul rico harvest, and it will be a little worse in   A.
Thus, The rice production of Japan  oPn this year will
probauly be 62,0oo,0 koku, and ro. w1ll east y be able to
export 4,to0,0o koku to Jhra because tA wil1 be ahle to
import a lar er quantity of cereals and pulses as the result
of the ood harvest in Manu I.
ns teyards wheat and swect potatoes, we expeet the pro-
duet  wheat will a ount to ore than Pe,ooo, koku as
the pesolt of the ood harvest in ata I o. mhe Tncrease
of production wil bo several mil  on koku over last vear.
and tre production of eweet potatoes Jo expected to be
720,000,000 kan. The 1crease of prodnet1on w111 be 180,000,000
kan.
iur i s to the Ituation on the contineut an unusually
cod hevvest ls expeoted.
 pl where the shortege of
foou wes very serlous, was es ured of an abnor mml ly good
harvest of sheat this year. the totat vill bo 5.290,000 yotrle
tone in  tor provinees ofal and
-al. Tme inercase of production 1l  10,300,00o petr1e
tons, 1.0., 4
thus e ee  cover at prce fro the poor
crops of the past ears. Desides, puch faneue heat erese as
(洛陽)(鄭)(許昌)
were  eo us the war rosults or the o stratey.
but the proulem Is how uch can notual y be co louted
Iror tue sond harvest. conaequently, the officials and people
In  a Cn ere doing their best in celleetlen and mi-
bution.
2 s wo know already, 'o  cul  has e lorge artent-
tural zone 80 of the inhabitante are forrere, and 1
agricultural products are an importart sup ort for the wurtime
econo lc syrte of JrN.

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.92)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
Th 347 - page 2
CHUNGKING
10 VAR 1945
The total area of the five provinces of the N TH CHINA
1s ,65,000,000 nou (亩 ), and the cult1vated area 1s
344,010,000 pou (20.78p). Amo-g those five prov1nces, the
cultivated ereas of oraI and HA TU G occupy almost half of
their own total areas, being 46s 1n Hor1 and 45% in SHANTUiG
of the total areas,and reaching the highost limit of the
agricultural technique of the farmers of Non TH CHINA. But
Ha 1 nas gly z1. of its area oultivated, and ClHallan
(察 哈 爾) and Iy(妥 袁) have only.B of their
areu cultivated. This is because of the existonce of steep
mountains and limitless deserts.
imore are 1z,o70,000 farm fac1lies among a total of
14,0,00 fa 1 l0sinther1ve provinces  the of On CHINA,
an average ref 3b.97%. 1et us draw a table chowing farrors
in the total population of the five provinces of Mo! CHINa.
Total ropulation
agricultural
Population
(thousands)
(thousands)
Fercentage
Hull
28,488
20,963
63.64
37,214
30,775
82.70
11
11,610
9,745
8.93
11
CH
1,870
1,607
85.€6
1.946
98
€€.7
11
TO AL
81,114
64,389
79.38
The furmers wno make up this Bo are al"ost oll  nall
farmers under feudal relattons. Tho average cultivated area
of one tarm fac1ly 1e 27.4 mou. The average aree per roreon
in the total populations is 4.25 mou: and anong the agricul-
tural population it is 5.3o nou.
is ao bave itetod above, the onltivated sraas are very
nar ou. turther ore, the yields are very low in co perison
wit taoee of the rest of the world. Thus   th vas
dusti sud to be inefricient in the problon of eelf-suf icieney
in looustuffs. accordine to the statistics before the Ino-
Japanese hortilities, it importod about 1,C00,coo netric tons
of foodstufrs every year. of whlch S00,0o0 tonr were wheat
and flour from UslhALIn and AtADA: 350,000 tons, cereals
and pul aee from  AvCHUnIA and  0 G0I IA: end 150, 000 tons.
rice from Central and South CHilA or  n Too-cuTn and
THAlLAND.
11 five people can live on ono ton of fond, 2o,oc0,0co
tons are neces ary for the one hundred million inhabitunts of

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.94)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
Th 347 - page 3
CHUNGKING
10 AR 1945
NORTH ChINA. Thus, the -11lion tons Imported represented 5%
of the total quantity needed. This means that the one hundred
million people of MOnTl CHIlla would be self-sufficlert if
they could eat 19 cups of rlce a day, saving one cup a day.
To desoribe  On "H CHINA as non-self-sufficient in foodstuffs
1e very inaceurate.
As e have stated above, the agriculture of NOkTH CHINa
is the lowest in the world in area and yleld; but we know of
many cas s in which yields have been tripled after improving
Irrigation and fertilization, so to Inorease productfon by 5%
Is a very simple matter, if we can make slight reforms in
agricultural technique. The problem of solf-eufficlency In
foodstufi: in tH INe is one that can be solved with no
troucle.
av  thlese, the shortage of foodatuff: is very sorious
in the eiries and towns. This phenomenon is due to the fact
that the cu:tom of u ing Imported rico for the consumption of
the tes till preveils,that the farmers have conceaed food-
stuif: i their houses, or that the dealers speculate in
food tuf e. speclally, the heavy dealings of the fooastuff
merahants In the black market are Imnosstble to ImagIme, and
we can :afely cay that those who are exploitimy the one
hundreo 11llon people of VOnTH Ma are the foodetuff
merchante.
me olitlcal coittoe ofo  is plannin how
to he die the deeisively; but 1ld troatrent has no rore
effect tow, end the most urgent thing is to strengthen fully
the wu-ti s control of the econory. ithout thi we can
never soive the feodetuff problem of NontH CHta. Thus.
Non  , as a pertner In ac omplishing the Greater la
war, a d a a cearer of the duty of produeing part of the war
resources, nould try its best to polve the foodstuff problem
now.
Typist: . zetu, Cheh
For C..C.

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.94)
(Enclosure no. 14 to despatch no. 259, March 27,)
(1945 from American Embassy, Chungking, China.)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 280
CHUNGKING
2 FEB. 1945
THANDLATION: F.E.A./JEAN WANG
ACTION, OWI.
INFO: M.A.
Embassy-
file
F..Om: TaIaIku . HIMPo (The Continental Newspaper)
rub11shed 1 HA GHaI, 11 November 1944.
ARNIVAL AND AL U. PPIO OF OFFICE OF REAR-AD IHAL  INATO
ALIJO ( ) RAVAL ATTACHE I HANGHAI
was ord red to duty In the General staff, Rear Admiral
Iaro neijo (   ) was named to be his successor
as the Naval Attache In Ila.GHaI. Rear Admiral IllnTo
arrived here on the loth and ar umed his post. As we wil!
see i. ni: brlef per:onal history, Rear Admiral  IATo has
served in several Important local positions like staff
officer. of the  leet in CaI A zone and Is well experienced.
he has a wide range of knowledge about the real condition
of Cila and Is one of the distinguished authorities on
Chinese affairs i the avy Department. Great hopes are
entertained of hi in hi: future work on his new duty in
the decisive war.
A Briof lersonal Hi tory of Rear Ad iral IlATo
He is a native of nasorhima Frefecture (鹿  )
and after raduati  fro the aval Academy in the 5th year
of Talsho (19l6) he :erved for several times in CHINA.
In l9sz he became the staff officer of the Pleet in the
ChIna zone. Afterwards, he vas on duty as the Maval At-
tache in slin GinI, FUCHon, and Ai OY. At the beginuing of
the Greater ast aslatic war, he played an active part on
the outhern Front as the captain of an aircraft carrier.
He served as the chief of o.2 Section of the Bureau of
wilitary tores and the dir ctor of studies of the Naval
academy before he took up the present post. He 1s 49 year:
ola.
ryplrt: szetu, Cheh
For C.T.C.
T.K.B.

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.88)
(Enclosure no. 15 to despatch no. 259, March 27,)
(1945 from American Embassy, Chungking. China.)
CDINATTRLATIONCEA
24 PEB 1945
Th 313
CHUROKING
ACTIOSI P.B.A.
T     
INFOI N.A.
0-2
0.N.1.
03S, Hajer Stephone
A
File
11 ovember 1944
ine cuture of the wer
Ine nattle of Leyte has bocoms inoreasingly important and it is
possltle for us to forecast the three possitle outooms of the battle now.
Firstly. the deleat oi ths v. s. aray; weoondiy. we give in ones more and
look for a wain tattle field ta some anare elso and thirdly, a deadly atraggle
on this islaad. Lut us, at first, examins the designs of the emomy: the air
ralds on pormosa started on 12 cotocer and aithough the anemy ouffered beavy
Losses, the ruids persiated in the heigncorins seas of roriosa until l4 potober.
Ihe motive was to divert the attontiou of wnd to destroy our mir foree atatloned
la soraosa so ma to rouder sucoassiui a ianding on Leyte on the 17th. Even
trougn auffering neavy losges in forwosu, tooir landing on Leyte wms è great
suooess witn a sasl mumter of casuulitius; tlis was just what the mony desired.
aduiral ging dociared on the 2th tnat ain the wattle of thilippines. wo have
eaployed alwost our entire yacific Fleet". rhis shows the determination of
the mney to deleat us mne ratake tae hilippies.
The fuot that wo have siployud our combined fleat and the muleidal
Divine ino sSquudron" (lh ) in the tattle of hilippines shows
eleerly thst our otject is to monieve the firat outoome mentioned above, that
is. to defest tns enemy. in view of the sreat strategic importance of the
Falllppines und the proparatione made for the decieive bettle in Autumn (ly44).
it is natural for us to expeet to dofest the oneay. remier Hoiso deolared on 29
Jutober in wsake, "ne must mobilise the total fighting strength of our Nation in
order to deal a heavy blow to the eneny right now, so that they oannot make an
effective counter-ofrence later ons" àcoordiagly, judging by the progress of
the bactle on Leyte, there is & strong possibility for the realization of the
third aiternative. that is, deadi, atruggio to tne end.
Up till now, in continuation of his loosos on formosa, the enemy's
loamess in the vattle or the philippine sem. from 24 to 26 Cot. were, 8 oarriers
munk, 9 oarriers demeged. and 18 other waranips sunk or duxaged, making a total
of 35 ships; frou 25 to 30 cot., our "Divine wind Squadron" has munk 3 more
enemy earriers, damsgud another U. sunk or damaged 6 other warships, making a
totai of l9. when this is comvined with other monievements by our Army. mavy and

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.90)
CO-ORDIHATEO TRANSLAPION CHTR
313/p. 2
CHUNOXING
248531945
Air furees, ws way say our battle wscoess is vory great. But, from the
offorts damonstrated by the meny so far it imdicates that the ameay mes
made surprisiag preparations, both in man power and ia fire pewer. pherefors,
In erder to defeat the enemy  have to infliet eavy lesses to the ememy
contimuously for a long time. naturaily, w ast realise that in thie
proeess w will nave to suffer losses as wail.
phe tablishmont of  comtlned rlannine sureau
honce, the urgant proulem fmoing us today 1a how to replase thie
kind of heavy losses? Sinee the battle of the pnilippines camnet be regarded
as the fiuai battle, many airfioulties lis mnead for the Government. How.
the promier warns us, "this battis is only one on the road to final viotery".
(address delivered on the Otn in gmaxa). That is say, the battles mst
te fought in the perapeotive of e prolonged war. erein lies the reason
for our desands for a highly consolidated and flexible politioal warfare
stratogy.
At reoently, on the 20th, the nem Cabinet deoreed the formation
of an dvlsory counoll and on the same date nominated 12 new advieure.
The funotion of thiz advisory organization is not limited to the mphere
of wartiae coonomlus as was that of the Tojo catinot, tut has wider pomers.
Esmides tho Cobined lanning 2urwau was orgenized and opened its
orfice on the lst of ovember. phis Bureau deals ith important national
polioles and asts in an advisory capaoity to the Cabinet. the onief fanotion
of thls buroms is to consider the uniricution and readjustxent of the various
sovernwontal offlees, seoodly, to make s systematic survey of the metivitles
of these ofrices. he taree departmental neads of this guroad mre mominsted 
by the inistries of yinance, Interior and nitions. rhe mccess or failure
of tals naw surewu depende upon its rolatlon with whe army and wavy. bat we
elaosruly nope that it can funotion saootly.
Militery ucoess and commodity ricee ia Chi (cooupled)
Toe military sucoessss or fam sattle of the philippimes and the
battle of formoes have greatly stiffened the worale of the people in the
Co-prosperity phwre. In shanghal, a publio meeting for inereasing production
in Contral Thins was old under tho eusplcee of 0 different Japanese and
Chinose organizations, similariy, in Nanking a mass meeting was staged to
celebrate the victory over the conoeited enemies. people everywhere have
demonstreted their detammination to win the war and this aItitude is also

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.89)
CO-ORDIEATED TRANRLATION CEITER
T 313/P. 3
CHUnGK I50
24 788 1945
reflected oy the price tondencies is the commerelal world. The emee steadily
known. Friees have started dropping sinee 20 Coteber, ds shomn by the
folloming table:
Its
Uait
19 00t.
20 00t.
24 00t. 1 0.
Dollars
Dollare
Collars Dellars
Artifioial silk
(reakyo)
BOx
245.000
238.000
208.000
226,000
Rios (bost quality)
ian
18.500
17.500
18,000
19.000
Gold Bar
10 ounoed
052.000
642.000 586.000 603.000
uut 1s the steadtss or prioes gains to last in the futurep the
presont ruperter is vory doubtrul about thie point. the notion that the rapid
rimes in prioes in ina is the result or our setbeoks in war is ill founded.
but pavertheloss quite prevalent. tim presont war condition may be oae of the
fmotors stimulating the souring of priess. tut the deeiding inflmence is the
sconemin Taotor. if wo conneot the rising of prioss mith the presont conditions
of tho wur toon now would you uxpiain the rapid rise of prices one or two
yoars ago wten ths axis couers were defosting the euery everymmerep therefore.
the problem of prioos in Cilna, no watter now sorious the war situation 1s.
oun only te solved by takinr proper euonolo counter-moasures.
The strongthening of me ontrol of iroulation of yoney
yaturally. the  ational Covermment (anking) took a serious attitude
and have ontinuassly taken countor-meamures to cupo with the presont inflation.
At firet, on 20 gototer it announoed the "outline for strengthening the
usiness of finanoial organizetions in shenghai unioipality". and on the
3lut ofr the same month manounoed the methods of its exeoutlou. The objeet
is to strengthen the foundation of finmnolai organisations by limiting
borrowing so as to stos spgcul atlon and boarding. Its pontents are as
follons,
10
rhe finanoial organisations whose degosite are less than the
amounts speoified below mast imoreass tholr oapitel or sombins with
other orgsallations two months aftor the promulgation of the stated
announceLent.
20.2
Dollare 30.000.000
Truutee Companios,
Dollars 10.000.000

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.89)
DLCT
313/4
CHGNOKING
24 785 1945
20
Based on artiole (i) ths aeeessary minimm imorease of
cmpital ie specified as below,
Baaks,
Del1ers 15,000,000
Rative panks,
Do1lars 8.000.000
Trustee Companies,
Do11ars 10.000,000
3.
fue financial organization must rotain 30 pereent of their
total deposits as reserve payment fand for deposits whioh are not
fixed witn any definite date.
ralllng short of this mmount, they should wake it up within
5 days. If the time limit is exoceded, either the remponsible
persons will be punisled or the canks alosed.
4。
The financial organisations should confors to the lams limiting
orrowine. issued in Marok 1943. wid at the same time should sond
the contrmsts for repuyment and goods guarantee to the office of
Fimaneias Inspeotios for apyrovas when the limits apeeified below
ure paased.
(a).
ersonal porrowings cannot be for more than
Do11ar8 500.000.
phe corrowings of companies, firms mad faotories
oannot mrpass the Dollars 3.000.000 limit.
5.
rue buying mnd selling o! negotiable bonde and auares are
limited to thosw mhial are armitted by the Govornment. Those
vich are not poraitted by the Goverusent and were bought before
this monounnement must to sotcled within e period of two months.
The riso of finanoiai presmure in Shanghai sterted from the time
of the iddle tuan Festival. he moasures just stated will put oheeke
on this prossure. pinaneiwi presaure was ommsed by meavy iavestment in
fare products and othore, conguently, very little capital ie flowing into
the benks. Jiw situatlen cannot be emmeliorated. beoause unlike in Japan:
savings ed the increasing comsumption of goode are pot to be expected.
Therefore, capital is still in che hands of the masees and is used maialy
for hoarding and speoulations. Cousequently. the finanoisl organisations
of shanghel are very anort of oapital whilo the market is flooded with money.
en abmormal phenomona. la thio respect the reatriotive eteps taken by the
Government are welcome, but it Is not onough. the fundamental poliey should
rewtriot the issuing, of paper Molnay aud to oadeavour abmord this money bmak
again. Based on this prinoipie, it is mocessary to push the berter syatem
and at the same tlws to revive the lignt industries.

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.86)
CO-OKDINATDTRAGSLATIOACENTEH
313/r.5
CHU NOI LNG
24 F5B 1945
Chaagkiag llostile to America
rhe reeall of gamerai stilwell has suused some sipples in the wosid.
sverybody knows that stilwell was conourrently motlng as the Chief Commamder
of the Lodla-purme-Caina expeditionary foroos. Deputy Coamaader of the ferees
of houtheustern saiu ud tno cuier of stais of Chungxing Foroes, bat maddomly
he was dsurived or all aie posts and rwoalled co riea. Hia mecsssore are
vajor Cenoral miturt wedzeyer. the doputy cnief of stait of The Porees of
youtheastorn asia wad It. Gonerai Danios suitan. ith regard to this ahange.
tacre is io datailen aplanation exoept the president's romart "stilwell
confliets mit, lang ul-shlok". ut Sauss' remerk "tno dismissal of
tilwoll will greatly weaken the position or meriea in Chasgking", and the
fust thnt  resigaed show that this is an affair of some importanos.
In order to start offensivs mgainat Japan and to domlsate Asia after
the zar, the yited States has penstrated deeply lnto the ilitary mnd yome
afiairs of hangking. In view of our rupid advamees in gonan, saman and
wangsi the Aorioans sre greatly worried and have wade strong demands to
the  hungxing covermaons in the matter of pelitloal as well as military
reorganizntion. The resolutions passed by the 12th yuomintang Assembly
regerding the proparstion of a constitutional governeont is the realisetion
of their demands clong the politioml side, but on the military side, it is
not so simple. to dismics ho Ying-clin fros tho posts of the winister of
Ser wnd the  lef or stafs of Phe Aray und make Stilmoll the suprame
Coumander or the cmangalar Army. as rumourod in forsiga clroles is after
all a thin that could ot be aocomglisned cy chimng kal-shick. As if this
amre not emough, tnere are otaer inalcations in the Chaugaing Goverument
oiroles snoning woir attitude of resistancs against the further ponetration
of morloune. Thio is surther complicated by the attaes de by the
Cowsanlate rogardia m the Sou-Compradore struoture or the hangring
covernment. hiané has nol ceen dogrudsd to duen an extent yet as to morve
the ericans willincly as = prot, thororor, do sad had to spross nis
ows attitude wnerds the war ol reslstalcs. politlcally. fhw buokghound
of tilwosl aisuissl is l. chrio. that  li my et siilar
thinys to napyn uga.
l.
For . T. .

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.90)
(Enclost, no. 16 to despe tch no. 259, Maroh 
1945 Prom mseican Embaday, Chungking. Chins.
CO-ORDINATED TRANLATIOW CENTER
CHUNGKING
26 JAN. 1905
TR 268
TRA:
ACTION: O.W.I.
INPO: 9.3.A.
055 Majer stevem
Eakassy
rile
7R0
MIHOT S IJI T :NTC (Jaran Political Year Book)
Jublished in TOrYo-ro, 20 Movember 194s.
CONTC IPTION OF O (微用).
Under the law on Conseription or workere, prisemers
and prisoners of war may bc conseripted. Por instanee.
at tic . . . Corporation, . . . number of prisoners frem
t'c o. Yo Jail were conseripted for work in the. . .
pere arte lant. Cn the lst o? vebruary 194s a law
ontitled " cculation on the deapatch of war prisoners
(俘虞派畫观则) wae promulgated. under this regulatiom.
uny irr which wishc: to cmploy prisoners of war may epply
"or n certain number o! men. the rirm must present a plam
in which thc detail o: lodging. discipline, pay, and
medical care :or tho war prinonere : re given. the plam
will be stu ied by the commaniing officer or the garrieem
commander of the istrict in which there is a comeentetiom
camp : or war pri onors. Lodging ani other arrangememts
must be more or less thc same as thoso of the conoentretiom
camp.  comrmnder o he concentration camp will send
over  offici 1 to irrct  uardn and mmintain disciplime
over tho war rionere.
yplat: Jamee Tew
br C. T. C.
T.H.B.

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.89)
a
2
7
(Enclosure no. 17 to despatch no. 259, March 27,)
(1945 from American Embassy, Chungking. China.)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSIATION CE TER
Th 353
CHU IGRING
14 MAR 1945
Th
ACTION: F...
IHFO: O..I.
imbas sy
G-2
File
l (rle tal conomy)
ub1 bc in  0rYe, 16 D0cember 1944.
. hi:  ir a special Januery 1srue, 1945)
NATIOALASLU
(t..  l s  table is iven on pae 4)
Total Amount
Amount of
Piseal
of paper oney
Increase
ate of
( 111on Yon)
(illion
Yen)
Increase
(1957
1,767
282
78.9 %
(1686
2,149
382
21.5
Circulation of
(1939
3,024
875
40.7
Bank of .
(1940
3,943
919
30.3
11
Notes ...
(1541
5,241
1,298
32.9
8
(1944
6,568
1,327
25.3
8
(1943
10,527
3,959
00.2
à
(1944
13.727
5,200
42.0
NO
For the le4r ans teas riscal year the figure reprosent
the  tanl me suatimd at the end of the last week in
sret.
hs 19as 1lgure 1 tor too 1st halr porior only.
Fircei
2？
.ecoplient 1
eople's
National
exponditure of
savine ()
Capital
(消費资金)
190
91.7
128
9llion Yen
1989
104.0
152
64
1940
106.8
157
1941
94.2
148
1944
102.0
140
1943
114.8
130
4
1944 (lct half
prlod)
52.4
115
2
(1) The poreontege peons that the totel amount of savlu was
aqual to o many percent of the goal sot for that year.
ypist: zatu, Cheh
For C.T.C.
T.H.B.

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.83)
(Enclosure no. 18 to despatch no. 259, March 27, )
(1945 from the American Embassy, Chungking, China)
CO-ORDTYATELD TRAUSLATTOL CENTER
CHIPIGKING
33
2 MAR. 1945.
TRL
/
ACTION: ..A.
: mbass
ile
FO:
T (Te ewspaper)
u0lished in 1, 27 pecember 1944.
G 1945.
n the 26th the " e ukuo" made public the state
ud or the year 194s. 3oth the gcnera1 na the special
Iudpets have been rroved by the State councillors (
ich met in the presenee of the "imperor".
The total coner 1 budgct is Yen 1,785,0c0,000. This
is n incre: sc o1 Yen 470,000,000 (35;) over the first
ul   1944 - 1 4s Piec 1 yeer. The respective spccial
 is inco ve 3,83?, c00, 000 ad exponditure Yen
5,677.000,000. This is  n incre se of Yca 1,1 1,000,000
o  iacome n ver 1,1l,00c,c0c for the expnditure
us corpare ith the pres at risee1 year.
 net mount (r )  the ner1nd special
u ets or the noxt tse1 yer is as rollows:
Theeus
n 4,202,000,000
1,174,000,000
ist: Js 
.P.

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.87)
CO-ODINATED THANSLATION CTE
2372
CHUNOKING
THASLATION: F../JAN ANG
ACTIGME
FU: RON AG NIIO (TH HONG KONG D11 w)
Fubllaned in :Ju xu, 1 January 1945.
L IN HAN.
(Duhal, January I, Funyo) In vlew of the important peaitr
of un Cn in the decisive war, and taking Into considerat
the spoclal position of tre governor-general of Foßmosa,
government ras decided recently to aproint General Apo 
the commanding officor of Formosan forces, to the posltio
governor-general, and, with the approval of the Emperer as
F.m. of the tnirtieth, the following announcement wes lomme
at b f.m. of the sare day.
announcenent issued by the Informption Bureau, s0 Do
uenrlu Lonni Icni (利 ) appointed--Gov
goneral of c. ..
iyosh()Governor-gne
.
O 1 1Y OVRRCGNRAL ANDO.
Uen ral 儿 1s a native of IYAGI ( ) Prefecta
fter servin in the posts of military attache of the Japane
mbassy in uliu, the presldont of theoYama (
School, and the ctlof of tre Department of Goneral Affair
(本 p ) of the inepoctor Jeneral's Department, he becam
the actin Inspoctor Jeneral In February 1938. When the
offonsive  oratlon aalnst  iuruns and the landing on Blas
BaY were started at the same time of the offensive operatlon
alnst imu.. In trne autumn of 1938, he was appointed the
Supreme commander of the expeditlonary forces in South ChIA
xchanglne posts ith the late Gon ral FUxUsho Mikiro (
 ). Durin the three years of his sorvice, he accom
pllshed cistinoniahed ilitary feats in the landing of
ImanuI t ) and the offensive operation against NANNING
(南 ). In September 1940, he conducted the epoch making
advance to northern IDO-C INA. He was apuointed the eom-
mandino orficer of rO..mOsn forces 1n April 1942 after the

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.91)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CNTER
TR 371 - page 2
CUNING
23 MAR 1945
outbreak of the renter wast Asle ar, and was promoted to
seneral this January. eneral  ban Yasuji (国 村 次),
the Commander In ChIef of the xpedItlonary forces in CHINA,
deneral II elst iro ( 板 tg 征 四 即), the com-
manding officer of the  orean forces, and Generel onIARe
ANDO.
Gazet e of the in1stry of Navy, 30 Decemher 1944.
nd iral na lyosh1 (  谷  清), Aprointed
--ember of the suprome ar counc1i.
rypist: szetu, Chen
Por C.f.C.

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.89)
45 from American Embasey, Chungking, C
-ORDIVATED TRANSIATION CENTER
CHINGKIN
20 Feb. 1945.
TR 308
ACTION: O.W.I.
I'VFO: Embassy —
TRANSLATON: .L.A./LUGH CHEN
OSS Mojor Stevens
G-Z
File
-01:
 H3(Asahi 8per)
Jublished in DKuu. CIrY (小含市 ) 7 Jaauary 1945.
EERCOULLL, GAZETTE O INTT Y OF NTERIOR
I.GOVernOr  HYOGO K (标事) NAIDA
TeuI o (   -p ) apointed Chier of the Generel Affairs
Departmnt (思移: senerally called Commissioner-
Goneral or ccretery-Oneral), ORHosA. Ir. NAIDA is a
fellow toynsman (同 ) of OMo's new Covernor-General
AN(安). He ist n tiVe oFf IYGI-KT (害城),
age 52, graduate of te KYOTO IIP RJL UIV J TTY, 1920.
One time Governor or -k (  ). Cne time
Chief of the Rureau o Kokuda ( I rw: Covernment land?)
and of ths Burcau of ocal dministration ( ).
Appointed overnor or  Y0Gc-KN, Junc 1942. Emept in labe
administration.
IT. chicf of nc urcau, of Communication for Trans-
FOTLLIO 文 通局), TOKYO-TC IOKA BAGATOSHT (藤阔 长),
nsportation), July 1945.
IreT.TU (蒲藤树). retrd.
r C. T. C.
Tyrist: James Jaw

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.87)
B0: in. G.℃.I1, 1O.
March 30, 1945.
PARTNT OF STATE
The
5,194
APR
hier
1945
Divn. oi Japanuse Afiairs.
2e. t0: Ta 894.50/2-1245
894.50/3-3045
T have our touter or the Peo. z7th ahe wish to thank
fu Po tre cotaliod cxolmmatior Peaatin to the point I orourht
un in r te tepe the m lish ph uee in Tanah.
I pecornise vhe Putility of ntte pting a program of
this kind i.  spirit P utter copuision and vould not advocate
it on this oosis. I do n t vish to : ppear controversial nor be a
bore, sut I Jould lile t orfer a rev additional rerarks in
suoprt o.'ry viewpoi.t.
You  utiorud  te exalples  he e aaterota to substitute
lem uare nad iled. ue oren ah the hilippines. others core to
ry ind, os he gesnan  tterpt in hseee-l praine. here was,
hoxever, phe si, dirrerence in these coses Pron the case T present.
In Por er chses, the peopie consitured their captors as taking
CS/E
ther. over p litically "for keeps" ainst their vill- besides los-
in their lun uare they  cre loci their a sired political arfili
rtion.
G
 phese  uld eehie that v dont vent them(
their ho e lsl las)to hold politictlly forever put orly want to
set ther. strmi ht in. the world. hey uet ve shown vhy teleression
does not pay. e stotcd b Pore, the Tune heve a peculiar mental
state, due to tr inin nd hereditary inriuences und institutions.
If soundly defeated, they will "lose face". They capect to do sole-
thing ts a penance to restitute thel selves vith rest f world. e
will ake a I istake ir we do hot take sovantage of this. Precedents
do hot show us a way to handle the situation to ruarantee the
resuits w: nt--  chastcned Tapanece peonle ith desire to co-
operebe iti Pest f worid vithout violatins the munth mandrent.
It an i e su e of success is vttained, it vill be due to sor.e
Leasure of in tenuity oy those sr the thited rations who are called
on to hamale it. I a sure you  p recinte the I erits of iy su gestion
if-eney ol she lorr-tern busis. I co sincercly hope for lasting
benefiel i pesults fron our pretent strurgle, whatever plans tre
us d.
incerely yours.
icok.
APR6 1945
FILHD
64
DOR

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.95)
28
April 5,1948.
In reply refer to
JA-894.50/2-1245
My denr Hr. Meek:
I am gled to acknowledge the reoeipt of your
letter of March 30, 1945 1n whioh you propose
additionel interesting arguments in favor of sub-
stituting English for Japanese as the national
language or Japan.
We shall keep in mind the points you have
raised in your two construotive letters and you
may be sure that we are alwaye glad to have full
expositions of the thoughts of those who take a
Berlous interest in matters of this nature. We
give very careful study to all thoughtful suggestions
received as we work toward solutions of post-war
problems regarding Japan.
Sincerely yours,
Erle R. Dickover
Chiof
Division of Japanese Affairs
894.50
Mr. P. K. Meek,
Bowling Green, Hissourl.
X
JA:HLory: KMB
Ucit
CS
DOR
4/4/45,
2045

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.96)
894.50/3-3145
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Tranalations of articles from Chinese Communist Publications on
Politicsl and Economic developments in Japan and ocoupied areas.
894.50
mjn
3
3145
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See .£264
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)
From
Dated...Mar.S1.1945.
F911
Chungking
File No. 894.00/3-3145
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTIMG OFFICE 1-1540

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.95)
CU/Ime.Rocales
Beth fiee
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DATE: March 31, 1945
DIVIsIOn
SUBJECT:
Mr. Paul H. Johnstone, in charge of Japanese work,
PARTICIPANTS:
Enemy Branch, FEA
Mr. Gordon Bowles, cugnß
Mr. Willoughby, CP
894.50/3-3145
ITP/Mr. Haley
COPIES TO:
A-C/Mr. Orchard; Mr. Mason; Lt. Gordon
OFD/Mr. Lockhart; Mrs. Gulick
CD/ Mr. Rudolph
ILH/Mr. Plank
1—1493
At Mr. Johnstone's suggestion I had lunch with him
and discussed economic work which is being done in FEA
looking to the post-hostilities treatment of Japan. He
explained that he has a division of eighty-odd employes
working on Japan and that, among other things, they are
studying the iron and steel industry and population trends.
He went on to say that they were experiencing some diffi-
culties in making policy assumptions upon which to base
their work and, therefore, had undertaken to draft a memo-
CS
randum on basic assumptions which they would like to dis-
cuss with interested officers of this Department at some
future date.
WILED
I told Mr. Johnstone about the Interdivisional Eco-
nomic Committee on Japan and our hopes of appointing a
coordinator for economic work on Japan. I said that we
would be glad to discuss with him problems of mutual interest
2
and that the Interdivisional Committee has under consider-
ation an agenda of background economic studies which members
of the Committee will probably want to discuss with him in
the near future.
3
-3/45
WN
CP:WWilloughby:mb

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.91)
28200
Serial No. 128813
JA
SO 3 29 96
THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY
FF
WASHINGTON
Af
157
9
DoTh
12 AA 1945
Sir:
Your letter of 27 March enclosing a copy of a
letter from Mr. Horace B. English containing biographic data
on a Japanese subject is acknowledged with thanks.
Copies of mr. English's letter have been forwarded
to the Military Government Section of the Navy Department,
894.50/4-1245
the Civil Affairs Division of the War Department, and the
Director of Naval Intelligence.
Sincerely yours,
James Fones tal
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
CS/D
DOR
na7
APR19 1945

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.98)
894.50/4-1945
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Information obtained from the press in regard to economic
conditions in Germany and Japan.
8
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See #11,520
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
From
Dated
Apr. 19, 1945
Bern
1170
File No.
862.50/4-1945
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1—1540
ff

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.98)
ARD FORM NO. 64
OFD: - Mr. Collado
A-C: - Mr. Orchard
DATE: Apr11 24, 1945
TO
tCC
ED: - Mr. Lockhart
FROM
SUBJECT:
Comments of Secretary's Staff Committee on SC-lOl:
Economic Policy toward Japan
As reported in the minutes of yesterday's meeting, Mr.
894.50/4-2445
Grew's views appear to be generally in line with the position
taken in the paper. However, he would require Japanese labor
to do reconstruction work, especially in China. The reasons
for doubting the wisdom of this proposal are stated in the
middle paragraph of page 13 of the Coordinating Committee's
draft (CC-45).
Mr. Acheson commented that the paper was very poor and
full of both meaningless and dangerous platitudes.  It is
difficult to know precisely what matters Mr. Acheson had in
mind but it would seem that he is not fully aware of the fact
that the paper was prepared at the request of and along the
lines indicated by the Executive Committee on Economic Foreign
Policy. That Committee desired an outline of the longer range
overall economic policy toward Japan within the framework of
the general objective of enduring peace. It is probably true
that any statement of general foreign policy is in danger of
sounding platitudinous, but as Mr. Grew pointed out, and as
indicated on page 2 of the paper, there are too many imponder-
ables to spell out recommendations in detail. That cannot
safely be done until we have ascertained actual conditions
in Japan at the time of surrender. Consequently, the paper
does not attempt to draw a detailed blueprint of the postwar
economy of Japan or to list specific industries and plants
for destruction or retention. It is believed that this general
and provisional statement of economic policy in the Far East,
particularly toward Japan, provides a better basis for the
development of a common economic policy in that area among the
United Nations than a more detailed statement could provide.
It should be noted, moreover, that more detailed studies are
now being undertaken within the framework of these general
policy recommendations under the supervision of the Adviser
on Far Eastern Economic Affairs by the Interdivisional Com-
mittee on Japanese Studies.
Mr. Acheson also remarked that it was absurd to recommend
that Japan should have a vigorous international trade so that
(3)
C
she could pay reparations. This remark represents a
S
misconceptin

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
misconception. The paper points out on page 6 that Japanese
livelihood is dependent upon a considerable foreign trade,
but it nowhere recommends that trade be fostered either to
obtain reparations or for other purposes. Rather, foreign
trade would be allowed within the limits of security as
required by the necessities of the Japanese people.
ED:OCLockhart:ec

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.98)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
ll
TO
DATE: Apr11 25, 1945
FROM
SUBJECT:
SC-lOl Economic Policy Toward Japan
Abstract of Minutes of Staff Committee
Meeting, April 23, 1945
The Under Secretary would have a few suggestions for
Files
Central
This Document Must Be
changes, for example, he would require Japanese labor to
do reconstruction work, especially in China. (See paper p.2
and note relative labor force in the two countries).
Mr. Acheson thought the paper very poor and full of
meaningless platitudes up to pp,5, 6 & 7, where it was full
of dangerous platitudes. He thought it absurd to recommend
that we should see that Japan has a vigorous international
trade so that it can pay reparations. (A complete miscon-
ception of the paper).
The Under Secretary stated that the idea was that Japan
should have a minimum economic activity to keep from starving
and becoming a festering sore. Trade was necessary. The
5
document probably represents many compromises.
4
Cn.
Mr. Acheson thought the drafters should analyze Japanese
industry and trade using FEA and OSS studies and make specific
recommendations on the elements Japan might retain or give up.
It was not unlike the document on Germany which had got the
Department into trouble. The Treasury and Army would think
it recommended a soft peace. (FEA and OSS studies are not
based on very recent information and of course not at all on
conditions at the war's end. The Area Committee generally
thought the paper advocated a harsh peace. Only Mr. Blaisdell
CJC
had suggested that the term "soft" could be applied).
General Holmes agreed that the presentation seemed
superficial and that our objectives should be stated and an
indication given so far as possible of specific means of
accomplishing objectives. (The objectives are stated early
in the paper and, as is pointed out on page 2, it is not
practical at this time to be too specific as to means nor
is detailed specification consistent with the purpose of
the paper).
894.50
DC/R
The Under Secretary remarked that there were too many
imponderables which would make it difficult to spell out
recommendations in advance.
14.2545

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Mr. Acheson thought that if that were true it might be
better to have no paper at this time. He stated that the
conclusions in the document were fundamentally inconsistent
with one another and that the effect was to give a false
sense of security. (The minutes give no specification of
inconsistency but Mr. Dickover had told me that Mr. Benninghoff
had stated that in one place destruction was advocated and in
another productive facilities were to be left for the Japanese.
This view can only result from overlooking the respective
contexts of such statements.)
The Committee agreed that Mr. Clayton should be informed
of the consensus of opinion (sic) that the recommendations
were too general and detailed studies of Japanese industry
and trade should be utilized to make concrete suggestions and
recommendations.
ED:OCLockhart:ec

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.99)
RD FORM NO. 64
TO
A-C - Mr. Clayton
DATE:
April 28, 1945
FROM
OFD - Mr. Collado
SUBJECT:
Japanese Economic Policy Document
I have carefully compared the document on economic
policy toward Japan which is before the Staff Committee
Piles
Central
OC/R
with the various German directives and would like to
emphasize the following points:
A. The three points which I mentioned to you yesterday:
1.
The document assumes that a decision has been
taken that our military forces will occupy
894.50/4-2545
Mist Be Retarned 
Japan. I am informed that this decision has
already been taken. I think this decision may
be questionable, but I do not believe it is
within our scope to go behind it.
2.
There should pe a definite statement that
reparations from current production is of sub-
ordinate importance and of a residual nature,
that if the maintenance of living standards
no higher than in neighboring countries per-
mits some excess production within the scope
of the demilitarization and de-industrializa-
tion objectives, this should be made available
as reparations.
3.
Similarly, import and export trade, which is
more necessary to Japan than Germany, should
be defined as the minimum trade necessary f'or
the maintenance of such living standards within
the scope of the broader objectives.
CJC
B. Other points perhaps not adequately brought out in
the Japanese memorandum include:
1. The fact that living standards should be no
higher than in neighboring countries.
FW 894.50/4.2545
2.
The desriability of using local officials
and administrative mechanisms to proclaim
and administer controls.
3.
That economic controls should be imposed by
the occupying rorces only to the extent neces-
sary to accomplish basic objectives.
I am

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
I am quite sure that the whole document could
be redrafted into much shorter compass and into much more
easily followed outline form. The present form is
the result of eight months of wrangling, and I believe
it important that we not lose any of the many really
important decisions incorporated in the present docu-
ment. Thee include fairly definite concepts of repara-
tions, definite recommendations about the prevention of
the redevelopment of the Zaibatsu, definite determina-
tions with respect to the availability for reparations
of overseas private and public assets, and decisions
paralleling the German decisions with respect to elimina-
tion of certain industries and restriction of the total
production of others, such restrictions to be regulated
in part by controls on the import of the essential raw
materials.
I believe that it would be desirable for you to
ask the Staff Committee to approve this document in
principle subject only to the minor points made on the
first page of this memorandum. You should then con-
sider whether you wish this document to go to the Execu-
tive Committee on Economic Foreign Policy which originally
requested it months ago. I have checked with Mr. Carr
who indicates that there have been no recent inquirites
in the Executive Committee regarding this matter but
who feels that if we progressively eliminate more and
more subjects from the scope of discussion of the Execu-
tive Committee that we will destroy that body.
OFD:EGC:ja

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.99)
April 29, 1945.
Memorandum to Mr. Collado
From: O. C. Lockhart
Re: SC-lOl: Economic Policy toward Japan
Our discussion yesterday helped, I think, to clarify Mr. Acheson's
approach to the paper and consequently to explain the basis of his strictures
on it. Since it appears that the Staff Committee does not expect the drafting
officer to explain his paper in person, I suggest that a statement such as that
appended should help to obviate Mr. Acheson's objections.
In considering this paper, it is necessary first of all to have in mind
the differences and the relationships existing between a statement of long-run
policy and a directive.
A statement of policy is a broad outline or plan of action for the
attainment of certain objectives; it is directed toward ultimate ends, such as
"enduring peace." A directive, on the other hand, is an instruction or a series
of instructions relating to specific actions to be taken or omitted; it is con-
cerned with immediate and limited objectives which are, nevertheless, believed
to be essential to the creation of conditions that will permit the attainment.
of the ultimate objectioes of policy. A statement of policy thus provides the
foundation or frame of reference for a directiwe. The difference between the
two is somewhat analogous to that between strategy and tactics.
The paper on Economic Policy toward Japan is such a statement on longer-
run policy. As such it does not and should not attempt to provide a detailed
blue print of Japan's postwar economy. It concerns itself primarily with ulti-
mate objectives rather then with the specific means of achieving them; since
those means will be clearer when conditions in post-surrender Japan are defin-
itely known. The paper is to be distinguished, for example, from such a paper
as the directive to the commander in the European theater, which concerns iteelf
with immediate objectives centering largely in the security of the occupying
forces in the initial post-defeat period. The directive emphasizes the fact
that it is not an ultimate statement of policies concerning treatment in the
postwar, and accordingly provides for constant surveys of conditions as a basis
for supplemental directives.
What the paper on longer-run Economic Policy toward Japan attempts to
do, then, id to provide a framework of general policy objectives within which
may be fitted papers that may be required on more specific aspects of the post-
war treatment of Japan, including directives to the theater commander. In the
course of its drafting and passage up to the Secretary's Staff Committee, it
has had the benefit of comment by a considerable mumber of officere of the
Department and a gratifying degree of unarvimity of opinion as emerged. Its
statements of policy have been fotlowed, so far as applicable, in the prepar-
ation of a momorandum for the President which, if approved, will be the basis
for the directive for military government in Japan; and it is expected that it
will also guide in appropriate measure the work of the Adviser on Japanese
Economic Affairs and the Committee on Economic Studies on Japan.

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.99)
ST4RARD FORM NO. 64
TO
OFD: - Mr. Collado
DATE: April 30, 1945
SUBJECT:
The task assigned in Mr. Clayton's memorandum of yester-
day's date to you is one which I believe should be referred
to Mr. Martin, who for the past three weeks, together with
the Committee on Japan, has been at work on a brief paper
paralleling the economic portions of the March 23 document.
At a meeting of the Committee last week Mr. Martin's draft
and one prepared by Mrs. Gulick and myself were brought
into complete harmony as to subject matter. Mr. Martin had
00894.50/4-3045
This Dooument Mist Be Retu
arranged his draft more nearly in the order of the political
section and after conference with the political people was
to decide which draft to use. I have been unable to get in
touch with him this afternoon to know which is the accepted
draft, and I attach copy of our draft.
The March 23 German document is of course a memorandum
submitted to and approved by the President, on which the
military directive on Germany was based. The document on
which Mr. Martin and the Committee have been working is of the
same nature. As such it differs from a directive proper and
both documents differ from the paper to which Mr. Acheson and
Mr. Clayton now object in the fact that they are short-run
directives rather than a paper on policy. This difference
was pointed out at some length in my memorandum to you under
yesterday's date.
Perhaps I should add that it was originally intended that
Mr. Martin's paper when joined with that from the political
officers would go to the SWnCC group informally and without
commitment by the Department. In its progress, however, it
has become clear that the paper will be submitted to the
President,after approval by the Department, when it will
CJ
become the authoritative basis for a military directive.
Presumably, this paper will go to the Secretary's Staff Com-
mittee; hence the absurdity of now redrafting the paper on
C
longer-run policy after the model of the German document of
March 23.
Please let me know whether you are referring the problem
Dto Mr. Martin.
894.50
ED:OCLockhart:ec

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.96)
May 2, 1945
In reply refer to
OP
My dear Mrs. Lee:
I would appreciate it if you could make the follow-
1ng documents availeble to the officers of this Division.
FE-128
Japanese Inner Zone Capability to Pro-
duce Petroleum and Petroleum Produots
894.50/5-245
from Coal and Shale
FE-220
Food and Other Problems Relating to
Population Changes in Major Cities
of the Far East
FE-108
The Production of Heavy Eleotrical
Equipment in Japan
FE-109
Japanese Possibilities for Producing
Synthetic Lubricating Oils
FE-126
The Use of Pyritie Residues by The
Iron and Steel Industry in Japan
Proper
C
C.
FE-204
Recent Changes in The Japanese Taxation
7
System
m
FE-21€
Prewar and Wartime Fuel and Lighting
Consumption in Japan Proper
FE-119.1
Iron Ore: Manchuria
EIS-27.1 Control
894.5
Mrs. C. P. Lee,
Project Control Ofricer,
Foreign Economio Administration,
心二
Washington, D.C.
245
TwM

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.95)
- 2-
X18-27.1
Control, Ownership and International
Relationships or Leading German
Combines
E-17
Present Controls of Germany War
Economy
18-22.1
Property of the Nazi Party, Its
Afriliates, Members, and Supporters
in Germany
EIS-26
Foreign Property in Germany
EP-301
Major Aspects of the Danish Eoonomy
Let me thank you now for your attention to this
request.
Sincerely yours,
Carl D. Corse
Assistant Chief
Divislon of Commeroial Policy
f01
A 801
A trne copy of
the signed origi-
E.af.
nal.
CP: EFunge: jer
4/26/45

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.96)
Tt
TO
Mr. John Orchard
DATE: 3 May 1945
2583
FROM
Edwin M. Martin
SUBJECT:
In accordance with the discussion in Mr. Collado's office
on 2 May 1945, I transmit for submittal to Mr. Clayton for the
FW
use of the Secretary's Staff Committee a draft of the economic
sections of the policy statement on the treatment of Japan
in the initial post-defeat period, which corresponds to the
08
23 March statement on Germany. It should be noted that the
6
economic section must be read in conjunction with the political
section, in which such points as the use of local officials
in the administrative mechanism are covered, and that the
5
general section of the entire paper which covers certain aspects
50/
of both the political and the economic sections should likewise
be read.
5
The statement in its present form is the result of dis-
3
cussion in the Interdivisional Committee on Japan, with Mr.
4
Dooman and representatives of the Office of Far Eastern Affairs,
5
and in the Far Eastern Subcommittee of the State-War-Navy
Coordinating Committee. You perhaps know that Mr. Mason has
been kept informed of our progress on this paper which was
prepared for submittal to the President. It was my understand-
ing with him that it would be submitted to him for detailed
review after the concurrence of other State Department offices
and the Far Eastern Subcommittee of SWNCC.
In my judgment this paper meets the request from Mr. Clayton
for an immediate revision of CC-45 on "Economic Policy toward
Japan", incorporating the points made by Mr. Collado in his
C
memorandum to Mr. Clayton of 28 April 1945, as these were re-
S
quested in the pencilled memorandum from Mr. Clayton of
A
29 Apr11 1945.
FILED
c
This paper, like the corresponding German document, is
primarily concerned with policies to be followed in the
immediate post-surrender period. It is my judgment that it
is still desirable to secure Staff Committee approval of the
long-range principles which should govern the future economic
policy of this country toward Japan. To this end it seems td
me that CC-45 is adequate substantially as it stands, but if 
revision, particularly by way of condensation, is desired that
can be done and the comments made in the Staff Committee may
be taken account of in so far as they are not mere repetition
of the immediate questions dealt with in the attached paper.
DOR- ITP Unt

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.99)
Mr. John Orchard
3 May 1945
Edwin M. Martin
In accordance with the discussion in Mr. Collado's office
on 2 May 1945, I transmit for submittal to Mr. Clayton for the
use of the Secretary's Staff Committee a draft of the economic
sections of the policy statement on the treatment of Japan
in the initial post-defeat period, which corresponds to the
23 March statement on Germany. It should be noted that the
economic section must be read in conjunction with the political
section, in which such points as the use of local officials
in the administrative mechanism are covered, and that the
general section of the entire paper which covers certain aspects
of both the political and the economic sections should likewise
be read.
The statement in its present form is the result of dis-
cussion in the Interdivisional Committee on Japan, with Mr.
Dooman and representatives of the Office of Far Eastern Affairs,
and in the Far Eastern Subcommittee of the State-War-Navy
Coordinating Committee. You perhaps know that Mr. Mason has
been kept informed of our progress on this paper which was
prepared for submittal to the President. It was my understand-
ing with him that it would be submitted to him for detailed
review after the concurrence of other State Department offices
and the Far Eastern Subcommittee of SWNCC.
In my judgment this paper meets the request from Mr. Clayton
for an immediate revision of CC-45 on "Economic Policy toward
Japan", incorporating the points made by Mr. Collado in his
memorandum to Mr. Clayton of 28 April 1945, as these were re-
quested in the nencilled memorandum from Mr. Clayton of
29 Apri1 1945.
This paper, like the corresponding German document, is
primarily concerned with policies to be followed in the
immediate post-surrender period. It is my judgment that it
is still desirable to secure Staff Committee approval of the
long-range principles which should govern the future economic
policy of this country toward Japan. To this end it seems to
me that CC-45 is adequate substantially as it stands, but if
revision, particularly by way of condensation, is desired that
can be done and the comments made in the Staff Committee may
be taken account of in so far as the- are not mere repetitions
of the immediate questions dealt with in the attached paper.

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Draft No. 12-A
25 April 1945
SUMMARY OF U.S. ECONOMIC POLICY IN THE INITIAL
POST-DEFEAT PERIOD RELATING TO JAPAN
I. Induotrial Divarmament and Demilitarization
Military government shall enforce a program of industrial
disarmament and demilitarization with the aim of preventing
Japan from again developing an economic war potential. Japan
shall be permitted to retain no specialized facilities for
the production or repair of implements of war or aircraft of
any type. Except in emergency situations there should be no
destruction of facilities readily convertible to civilian
production, pending decision on disposition either by transfer
abroad or use in Japan.
II. Control of Japanese Economy
In order to meet the needs of the occupation forces and
to prevent starvation and such disease and civil unrest as
would interfere with the operations of military government,
military government shall take such steps as may be necessary
with respect to (a) essential national public services;
(b) finance and banking; (c) production and distribution of
essential commodities; and (d) exports and imports. No steps
shall be taken by the military government which would provide
a standard of living to the Japanese people out of line with
that of neighboring peoples.
III. Reparations, Restitution, and Relief
In accordance with decisions by the、appropriate authorities
military government shall arrange for relief to the United
Nations and to liberated areas, for restitution of identifiable
looted property, and for reparations. The first charge on the
proceeds of allrexports shall be a sum necessary to pay for
approved imports. these claims taking precedence over repara-
tions elalns. Military government shall not for reparations
or relief purposes assist in the restoration or development
of Japanese heavy industries which might contribute to the
rearmament of Japan or whose expansion might promote dependence
by other countries on Japan for strategic products.
IV. Promotion of Democratic Forces
Military government shall encourage the development of
democratic organizations in labor, industry, and agriculture,
and shall favor the widedistribution of ownership, management
and control of the Japanese economic system.
a
V. Control
SECRET

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
-2-
V. Control of Foreign Credit
No credit shall be extended Japan or any Japanese
person by foreign persons or governments, except with
approval of military government.
SECRET

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.95)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
TO
OFD: Mr. ColLado
DATE: May 4, 1945
Mr. Lockhart
FROM
ED:
SUBJECT:
Economic Policy toward Japan
Attached is a copy of Mr. Martin's memorandum to
Mr. Crchard, together with the economic section of a
memorandum which is being prepared for submission to
the President, and which, in turn, is expected to form
the basis of a directive to the Theatre Commander. This
copy of the memorandum is Mr. Martin's draft and differs
primarily in organization from the draft which Mrs. Gulick
and I prepared and which you saw in connection with my
memorandum of April 30.
894.50/5-445
MAY1945
OF STATE
CS/
A
U1
b
ED:OCLockhart:ec
h

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.97)
Mr. John Orchard
3 May 1945
Edwin M. Martin
In accordance with the discussion in Mr. Collado's office
on 2 May 1945, I transmit for submittal to Mr. Clayton for the
use of the Secretary's Staff Committee a draft of the economic
sections of the policy statement on the treatment of Japan
in the initial post-defeat period, which corresponds to the
23 March statement on Germany. It should be noted that the
economic section must be read in conjunction with the political
section, in which such points as the use of local officials
in the administrative mechanism are covered, and that the
general section of the entire paper which covers certain aspects
of both the political and the economic sections should likewise
be read.
The statement in its present form: is the result of dis-
cussion in the Interdivisional Committee on Japan, with Mr.
T1
Dooman and representatives of the Office of Far Eastern Affairs,
and in the Far Eastern Subcommittee of the State-War-Navy
Coordinating Committee. You perhaps know that Mr. Mason has
been kept informed of our progress on this paper which was
prepared for submittal to the President. It was my understand-
ing with him that it would be submitted to him for detailed
review after the concurrence of other State Department offices
and the Far Eastern Subcommittee of SWNCC.
In my juugment this paper meets the request from Mr. Clayton
for an immediate revision of CC-45 on "Economic Policy toward
Janan", incornorating the points made by Mr. Collado in his
5
memorandum to Mr. Clayton of 2? April 1945, as these were re-
quested in the nencilled memorandum from Mr. Clayton of
29 Apri1 1945.
C
This paper, like the corresponding German document, is
primarily concerned with policies to be followed in the
immediate post-surrender period. it is my judgment thet it
is still desirable to secure Staff Committee approval of the
long-range principles which should govern the future economic
policy of this country toward Japan. To this end it seems to
me that Cc-45 is adequate substantially as it stands, but if
revision, particularlv by way of condensation, is desired that
can be done and the comments made in the Staff Committee may
be taken account of in so far as the- are not mere repetitions
of the inmediate questions dealt with in the attached paper.

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Draft No. 12-A
25.Apr11 1945
SUMMARY OF U.S. ECONOMIC POLICY IN THE INITIAL
POST-DEFEAT PERIOD RELATING TO JAPAN
I. Industrial Disarmament and Demilitarization
Military government shall enforce a program of industrial
disarmament and demilitarization with the aim of preventing
Japan from again developing an economic war potential. Japan
shall be permitted to retain no specialized facilities for
the production or repair of implements of war or aircraft of
any type. Except in emergency situations there should be no
destruction of facilities readily convertible to civilian
production, pending decision on disposition either by transfer
abroad or use in Japan.
I1. Control of Japanese Economy
In order to meet the needs of the occupation forces and
to prevent starvation and such disease and civil unrest as
would interfere with the operations of military government,
military government shall take such steps as may be necessary
with respect to (a) essential national public services;
(b) finance and banking; (c) production and distribution of
essential commodities; and (d) exports and imports. No steps
shall be taken by the military government which would provide
a standard of living to the Japanese people out of line with
that of neighboring neoples.
III. Reparations, Restitution, and Relief
In accordance with decisions by the appropriate authorities
military government shall arrange for relief to the United
Nations and to liberated areas, for restitution of identifiable
looted property, and for reparations. The first charge on the
proceeds of all exports shall be a sum necessary to pay for
approved imports, these claims taking precedence over repara-
tions claims. Military government shall not for reparations
or relief purposes assist in the restoration or development
of Japanese heavy industries which might contribute to the
rearmament of Japan or whose expansion might promote dependence
by other countries on Japan for strategic products.
IV. Promotion of Democratic Forces
Military government shall encourage the development of
democratic organizations in labor, industry, and agriculture,
and shall favor the wide distribution of ownership, management
and control of the Japanese economic system.
Control
SECRET

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.98)
SBCRBT
-2
V. Control of Foreign Credit
No credit shall be extended Japan or any Japanese
person by foreign persons or governments, except with
approval of military government.
SECRET

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.96)
DCR
fil
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
OFFICE OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 14, 1945
DATE: May 24, 1945
SUBJECT:
Japenese Fost-war Problems
PARTiciPAnTs: Ikuo Oyama, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois.
John K. Emmerson
894.50/5
COPIES TO:
5-2445
1-1493
Professor Oyama is probably the most outstanding Japa-
①
nese individual now living in the United States. He was
at one time head of the Farner Labor Party in Japan and was
elected to the Diet in 1930. He came to the United States
in 1932 and has been living in retirement in Evanston since
that time. He has done some teaching and research at North-
western and is now enga ed in the translation of Minobe's
Constitutional Government. There is ettoched a biographical
S
sketch of Oyama translated from a Japanese book entitled
W o's Who of Proletarian Parties (Musanto So-shiden) published
in Tokyo in 1931.
0
Mr. Oyama is somewhat Leftist in his political beliefs
but he is not a Communist and, according to his statement,
894.
was attacked by the Communist International at its Sixth
Congress as one of the Social Democrats who were"hand-
maidens"of cepitalist imperialists. He is intensely in-
terested in the activities of Okano and the Japanese
55
Communists in Yenan but does not wish to make any public
statements or to affiliate himself with any Japanese groups
at the present time. His reasons re, first, he does not
wish to jeopardize the lives end security of his many fof-
lowers in Japan and second, he wishes to await a clearer
definition of United Nations policy toward Japan before
taking a stand.
1445
5
With

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
With regard to post-war Japan, Mr. Oyama thinks that
unless the United Nations reestablish the finance capitalists
in power in Japan a powerful peonle's movement will gradually
develop. He does not trink that Communism will prevail in
Japan in the immediate years following the end of the war.
owever, he thinks it very possible that Japan might become
Communist within forty or fifty years.
Mr. Oyama does not think the emperor cult to be so
strongly entrenched in Japan that it can never change its
form and substance. He points out that emperor worship
has undergone various changes and has responded to outside
influences, such as Chinese philosophy. He thinks it not
improbable that after defeat the Japanese themselves, if
iven the opportunity, mey reform the emperor institution.
The constitution of Janan must of course be revised,
according to Mr. Oyama. He favors the establishment of
party government and freedom of speech and of the press.
He hopes that his translation of Minobe's work may con-
tribute to understanding of the Japanese system and the
necessary reforms which must be made in the Japanese Govern-
ment.
Mr. Oyama believes that Japanese militarism must be
completely destroyed but he feels that Japan should be
given some chance to develop peacetime industry to maintain
the livelihood of her people. He fears a resurgence of
British, Dutch, French and American imperialism in the Far
East. He expressed repeatedly his apprehension that Prime
Minister Churchill would insist that the Japanese capitalists
be supported and that colonial peoples in Asia not be per-
mitted to develop self-government. Oyama deplores a sub-
stitution of Anglo-American imperialism for Japanese
imperialism.
In spite of th domination of the militarists, Mr. Oyama
believes that there still remain strong democratic traditions
in Japan. He feels that Americans exaggerate the feelings
wrich the Japanese hold for the emperor. He mentioned that
particularly among the working classes the emperor was
often referred to with great irreverence. Oyama does not
advise that the United Nations remove the emperor but he
does believe that with free access to world information the
Japanese may themselves work out a more democratic system
of government. He pointed out that he differed fundamentally
from the Communists who advocate a one-party state and do
not permit free speech and a free press.
The most

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
The most important factor in the post-war world will
be Russian-American relations. Mr. Oyama hopes that
Russia may play the role of mediator between Japan and
the United Nations. He believes that the Russian influence
upon the British and Americans might be a healthy one. He
does not believe that Russia will seize Manchuria.
Mr. Oyama says that he is ashamed of the soft, com-
fortable life he has been leading in the United States. He
is very grateful for the security which he has enjoyed here
but he says that he still has his life to give to Japan. At
the present time he conceives of his personal role as one to
be performed in the transitional period in Japan. If he
becomes convinced that conditions are favorable he would
like to return to Japan to assume the leadership of those
elements which supported him in the past. He foresees
chaotic conditions in Japan but would like to play a part
in establishing a people's movement in that country.
FE:JKEAmerson:MHP

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.99)
IKUO OYAMA
(Chairman of the Executive Committee of Ronoto
[Peasants' and Workers' Party])
Born September 20, 1880 in the village of Wakasa,
Akaho district, Harima. His father was a doctor and he
was a second son. After graduating from primary school
he studied Chinese for one year at Kobe.  Then he went to
Osaka and studied German under Doctor Takuzo Yanagi. He
matriculated at the Kobe Industrial School in 1897 and
graduated in 190l. He intended to enter the Higher Bus!-
ness School but changed his plan and studied English and
political science at the Tokyo Specialists' School, a pri-
vate institution. This school became Waseda University
in the following year. At this time he changed his course
to political science and economics and graduated in 1905.
He was in the first class to graduate from Waseda University.
Among his classmates were Ryutaro Yanagi and Tokutsune
Aoyanagi.
Oyama was a brilliant and consistently outstanding
student. Upon  raduation he remained at the University as
a special research student and soon became a lecturer.
In 19ll he was sent by Waseda University to study in
the United States and he specialized in sociology and polit-
ical science at the University of Chicago. At that time
he was the only Japanese to take lecture notes in English.
He was called "Professor Oyama", and his knowledge and
character were highly esteemed by his acquaintances.
In 1913 he went to Germany and studied national 1aw
and political science at the University of Munich for
two years. After visiting the various countries of Europe,
he returned to Japan in l915 and became a professor at
Waseda University.
He worked very closely with Sakuzo Yoshino of Tokyo
Imperial University and launched out into the tide of
Japan's democratic era. He nurtured the growth of the
early democratic expression, rung in the new era, and
became famous as "Oyama of Wasdea". During the 1917
Reform Movement at Waseda, he left the University and
became an editorial writer for the Osaka Mainichi. During
the following year he opposed the sending of troops to
Siberia with Torii, Motogawe, Nagatani, Kawakuwa and
Korehima. The consequent pressure brought upon the Osaka
Mainichi by the Terauchi Cabinet forced him to resign his
post on the paper.
He then published the magazine Warera (WE) with
Nagatani,

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Nagatani, Kawakuwa, and Korehima and took a firm stand on
social criticism. He was called back to Waseda University
by President Takata. He again became lecturer in 1923
and during this year the Waseda military Research Group in-
cident occurred. The outbreak of the incident actually
started on May 1o when the inaugural meeting of the Mili-
tary Research Group took place in the lecture hell. Among
those present were 20 odd military personnel including
Assistant War Minister Shirakawa (then acting War Minister),
Nakajima and Konoe. They brought movie cameras to take
happenings of the ceremony.
The progressive students who were angered stated: "We
will not allow Wasede to be the propaganda instrument of
the Militarists." A group led by the Cultural League
rushed the conference hall and started the riot. On the
12th a mass meeting of students opposing militarism was
held on the campus under the auspices of the Oratorical
Club. The reactionary students who belonged to the various
clubs violently attacked the Oratorical Club members and
blood flowed.
The Military Research Group was dissolved but relations
between the opposing groups went from bad to worse. The re-
actionary force ruled the campus. Oyama was then head of the
Cultural League and various threatening leaflets were pasted
on his house. The "surrounded" group stopped going out
and even refrained from going to classes. Oyama stated:
"We cannot be absent from the University at a time like
this", and courting danger, he went to cless every day.
The Incident continued and on June 26, the Meeting
for Protecting the University was held at the Kamida Young
Men's Hall. Oyama spoke at this meeting and uttered his
well-known phrase: "Science is the weapon of the people."
Previous to this Oyama had been reserved and reluctant
to speak before a crowd. He was looked upon as an
academician and a lone democrat. However, standing up
against the oppression of the police, militarists and the
violent reactionary students, he projected himself for the
first time as an outspoken champion of the peonle. Re-
actionaries were powerful during this period, and on the
morning of the day Oyama gave his speech, Takao was killed
by Komemura, head of the Anti-Bolshevik Society.
After the outbreak of the Incident, the authorities
of Waseda stopped all lectures and controlled all speech.
President Takada had gone to Kokufu Shin, a resort, to get
away from the Incident which troubled him deeply. Oyama
decided

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
decided to give lectures. He was prepared for any con-
sequence and was ready to leave the University at any time.
He sent two students to Kokufushin to notify President
Takada that he wa: going to lecture, and told the students
not to wait for his answer. After more than 5o days the
Military Research Group incident ended with the meeting
for protecting the University. The enti-militarists won
and Cyama held his position at the University.
The Kanto earthquake disaster occurred immediately
after this and Oyama was taken in custody by the Rakugo
Gendarmes and almost lost his life. In the autumn of the
same year he was made adviser to the Social Science Re-
search Institutes which sprung up all over the country, and
he became a leader of student movements in Japan. In 1924
he led the fight against the suppression of the Social
Science Research Institute and against military education.
During the same year he was made chairman of the executive
committee of the Political Research Institute efter the
right wing leaders withdrew as the result of the birth of
the Proletarian Party.
In October 1926 the Rodo Nomin-to split when the
right wing withdrew. He was chosen Chairman of the Central
Executive Committee at the first meeting of the reorganized
Party in December. Oyama accepted the chairmanship because
his Ronoto was not in a favorable position. In February
of the following year he left his post at Waseda. Presi-
dent Takada discouraged him from leaving the University.
To keep him at the University, a student movement continued
for tvo months. However, he opposed the "control" of
university faculty members and left the institution so that
in the future fundamental principles guaranteeing the uni-
versity faculty's participation in proletarian movement would
be established and also to stimulate the student movement to
ralize self-government.
From then on he gave his full time to broadening and
strengthening the Party throughout the nation, and carried
on a determined struggle. Even aristocratic scholars
joined in the struggle as militant fighters and Oyama
became a unique agitator. During the 1928 General Election
he became a candidate from the second district in Kagawa
Prefecture and fought against stront opposition. A riot
occurred and 600 were arrested at a sweep.
Following the March 15 incident, the Rodonominto was
ordered to dissolve. He was at Tottori, but he immediately
returned to Tokyo and formed the organization committee for
a new party. He fought strong opposition. In December, the
Nominto

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
Nominto (of the workers) held its inaugural conference but
on the second day of the conference, it and the organization
committee were dissolved. Oyama then formed the League
for Acquiring Political Freedom and desperately defended
the Leftist camp. He waited for the opportunity to hoist
the Ronoto banner. At this time he severed all connection
with the Communist party and he and two others issued the
so-called "Advocation of a New Party". He worked for ten
days during the hot summer to draw up the lengthy declara-
tion.
In November the new Ronoto was formed legally and
Oyama has been chairman of the Central Committee ever since.
In 1930 he ran as candidate in the fifth district of Tokyo
and won the election. One by one his associates have left
the Party on the question of its dissolution. It seems
that Oyama is a sad and lone figure.

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE UNDER SECRETARY
May 15, 1945
A-D - Mr. Dooman:
Mr. Clayton suggests that if the Treasury Depart-
ment proposes the setting up of a broader committee
to deal with the economic and financisl aspects of our
post-war treatment of Japan it would be well for me to
refer the proposal to your subcommittee and to have
your subcommittee go on record, in writing, to the ef-
fect thet this subcommittee has functioned effectively
in dealing with the various problems that have been
brought before it, and that to create another committee
with representatives of the Treasury Department and FEA
as members would inevitably open the way for other De-
partments of the Government such as Commerce and Agri-
culture to ask for similar representation. It might at
the same time be said that your subcommittee will be
glad, whenever matters of interest to the Treasury De-
partment or FEA erise, to invite representatives thereof
f
to attend the meetings when such subjects are to be dis-
cussed.
6
It seeme to me that this would be a logical way of
deeling with the metter and it would certainly strengthen
my hand in meeting such representations as may be made to
2
me by Mr. Morgenthou or Mr. Crowley.
116.9.
S
9
Joseph C. Grew
h
Ang
5
Cat
U:JCG:GES

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.77)
I agree most wucthotrally
with This- I do not think a
broader Committee is wernsary
and I ber it wild reaer an

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
May 18, 1945
EUR-Mr. Matthews:
A few days ago I was told by Mr. Martin, who was as-
signed by Mr. Mason to work on the economic aspects of the
Post-Defeat Treatment of Japan, that, according to Mr. Coe
of the Treasury Department, Mr. Morgenthau would propose
"within the next few days" to Mr. Grew that a committee be
set up for the Far East which would be similar to the IPCoG
Committee headed by Mr. Clayton. Mr. Coe was of the opinion
that SWNcc was entirely too narrow in its composition to be
an effective channel for the clearing to the President of
basic policies.
I reported to Mr. Grew what I had heard from Mr. Martin,
and I have now received from Mr. Grew a memorandum, copy of
which I enclose.
Fn 894.
I have informally sounded out the views of the military
and naval members of the SWNcc Far Eastern Subcommittee, and
they feel, as I do, that a reorganization of the Subcomittee
to include representation by Treasury and FEA to consider pro-
blems in fields other than the economic and financial would
greatly impair the present effective working of the Committee.
2
5-1545
E.H.D.
Enclosure
AD-EHDooman:bmz
AB
SECRET

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.94)
从H
June 9,1960
In reply refer to
A-C
SECRET
894.50/6-945
My dear Mr. Fowler:
In accordanoe with disoussions on June 5, 1945 between
Mr. Paul Johnstone of your staff and Mr. Edwin Martin of the
State Department, I shouli liko to request that the Foreign
Eoonomio Administration prepare a draft statement on points 2
and 3 of the enclosed outline of a paper on "Control of Workers'
Organizations in Japan" whioh the State Department has been
asked to prepare by the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee.
I should appreoiate it if this draft could be ready by June 20.
This is the first of a series of papers to be prepared in
conneotion with the formulation of our economic poliey toward
Japan in the post-hostilities period on whioh the State Depart-
ment expects to request the assistence of the Foreign Economie
Administration. I greatly appreciate the attitude of complote
CS
cooperation which you and your staff have conveyed to Mr. Martin
in offering your services in conneotion with this program.
Only by such wholohearted cooperation between the agencies with
personnel working on Japanese economic questions can we hope to
m
formulate a soundly based United States polioy.
Sincerely yours,
Edward S. Mason
Deputy to the Assistant Seoretary
For Economio Affairs
Confidential File
894.50
Enclosure: Control of
Workers' Organizations
in Japan
Mr. H. H. Fowler,
à trae cs 
Direotor of the Enemy Branch,
CR
Bureau of Areas,
the sighed grige
JUN 8 194F P.M.
Foreign Eoonomio Administration,
n!.
Washington 25, D. C.
-
6/7/45

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEPHONE: COLUMBUS 5-6951
BUREAU OF APPLIED SOCIAL RESEARCH
Under the Auspices of the Columbia University
Council for Research in Social Sciences
15 AMSTERDAM AVENUE
NEW YORK 23, N. Y.
1945
Office of
Mr. J. C. Grew
FAR EASTEAN AFFAIRS
Department of State
JUN 1 3 19
Washington, D. C.
DEPARTMENT E
JUN 1 5 1945
Dear Mr. Grew:
The Bureau of Applied Social Research has started a monthly "Poll
of Experts". The object of this new undertaking is to ascertain and report
to the public the conclusions of representative authorities on significant
questions in their special fields. There are many polls of public opinion;
there is need for a poll which will report the competent judgments of spe-
cial ists. It is hoped that a poll of this kind will help reduce the lag of
public thinking behind the views of the well-informed.
Each month we shall select a specific question of interest and im-
portance to the public and one upon which experts are in a position to voice
conclusions. You are one of the authorities whom we wish to include in this
month's panel dealing with postwar political changes in Japan. We are asking
you and some seventy-five other specially competent persons in this field
to answer the few questions enclosed. The members of the panel have been se-
lected on the basis of personal conferences with a number of "advisory experts"
concerned with these problems. (Since the polls will deal with quite varied
matters, an entirely different group of authorities will be asked to partici-
pate each month.)
The responses will be summarized to reflect all the views expressed
by the experts, but without indicating what any particular individuals have
answered. The reports will be released as a feature in The American Magazine,
a monthly publication of The Crowell-Collier Publishing Company. Reports
will also be sent to a mail ing list of interested and influential persons,
including the participating experts.
We hope you will share our conviction that this undertaking can
perform a valuable service in bringing the conclusions of a cross-section of
authorities to the attention of policy-makers and of the general public.
It will help us greatly if you will answer the questions and let us
have your reply within the next few days. A detailed report of the findings
will be sent you as soon as it is completed.
894.50/6-1145
Sincerely yours,
Arther Kowhouser
Arthur Kornhauser
AK: bk
Director, Poll of Experts
Enclosure

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.99)
POLL OF EXPERTS
Questions on Postwar Politial Changes in Japan
1. Which of these two general types of policy toward Japan do you think the Allies
should adopt at the end of the war:
(a) Keep Japan down; orush Japanese industry and trade and reduce the
nation to a low level of life.
(b)
Let the Japanese have opportunities for economic recovery (though
with thorough de-militarization) as a besis for building a reformed
and reconstructed Japan.
Policy (a) _ Policy (b).
 Doubtful or impossible to say
Comments and qualifications:
If reasonable opportunities for recovery are provided, what chance do you think
there is that during the next 10 or 15 years Japan will develop a non-militar-
istic spirit and will have a government which can be trusted not to move toward
new wars of aggression?
Little or no chance
Fair chance Good chance
Doubtful or impossible to say
Principal reason for your answer:
3. In your judgment, which of the two following types of policy is more likely to
lead to a reformed non-militaristic Japan:
(a) If the victorious powers encourage and work with a Japanese government
composed of the "moderate" elements from the business groupe and former
government circles.
(b)
If the powers avoid working with the groups that have been close to the
old government, but inatead give encouragement to any new movements and
leaders that begin to have popular support and that are opposed to the
old ruling groups.
Policy (a)  Policy (b)
Makes little or no difference
Doubtful or impossible to say
Comments and qualifications (and indication of any plan you consider superior
to (e) and (b):
As far as you can judge now, are significant liberal and democratic movements
likely to exist in Japan after the war?
Yes
Doubtful or impossible to say
Principal reason for your answer:

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
4." In your judgment, what should be done about the Japanese emperor system after
victory is won? (The institution is referred to, not the individual.)
(a)
Leave it to the Japanese to work out for themselves.
(b)
Have the Allies take necessary steps to abolish the institution.
(c)
Have the Allies try to retain and use the emperor institution.
(a)
Have the Allies exert influence upon the Japanese to take action them-
selves, either to abolish the institution or drastically to curtail
the emperor's powers.
Other (Specify)
Comments and qualifications:
5. In addition to decisions on the overall policies referred to above, what are two
or three of the most important practical steps which the Allies can take in
respect to Japan that will help develop a reformed non-militaristic Japanese
nation? (Include any type of practical action -- political, social, economic,
educational, etc.)
PERSONAL DATA
(To be treated as etrictly confidential)
Name (Dr., Rev., Mr., Miss, etc.)
Age
May we include your name in the list of authorities to be printed with the
summary report?Yes
No
(In no instance will names be mentioned
in connection with any particular responses.)
Your present position:
Employer or organization
Is it permissible for us to list this position after your name? Yes
No
If some other position should be listed instead, please note it here:
Have you lived in Japan? Yes No
If so, how long?
Please check the following spaces to indicate your principal types of activities in
relation to Japan:
Religious work
Language; literature
Journalist; reporter
Economic studies
Writer; lecturer
Social or political studies
Business
Historical studies
Government official
Other
Bureau of Applied Social Research
15 Amsterdam Avenue
AK:FH
New York 23, New York
6/7/45

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.97)
25
N 18 1945
In reply refer to
JA
My dear Dr. Kornhauser:
I have received your interesting letter of
June ll regarding your "Poll or Experta".
The project as you describe it appears to be
one whioh oan be of value not only to the publio
as a whole but elso to this Department. Polls
concerned with foreign affairs are oarefully
examined by the Department's offioers who are
always anxious to know opinions and ideas of persons
who give serious thought to that subjeot.
On further conslderation I believe you will
agree thet in my present official position I could
not properly participate in your poll dealing with
post-war political ohenges in Japan. I am aure you
will understand that this oarries no implioation of
a lack of confidence in your organization's desire
and ability to withhold indioations of the views
expressed by individual partioipants in the poll.
I want you to know that I appreciate your invitation
to take part and that I shall look forward to seeing
the results of your undertaking.
The stamped envelope you enclosed with your
letter is returned herewith.
Sincerely youre, Joseph G. Grew
Acting Seoretary
Enclosure:
Stamped envelope.
110 16
Dr. Arthur Kornhauser,
Bureau of Applied Social Researoh,
15 Amsterdam Avenue,
New York 23, New York.
JA:BRJohansen:KMB
J.1B
FE
6/15/45

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.94)
2) Marten
FOREIGN ECONOMIC ADMINISTRATION
A-t Deputy to Aet.-y
fer Eccmmmle Altaust:
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
JUN181945
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
na.n.
June 14, 1945
82m
Fct. to
De/R
Mr. Edward S. Mason,
394.50/6-1445
Deputy to the Assistant Secretary
For Economic Affairs,
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Mason:
I have your letter of June 9, 1945, requesting that the Foreign
Economic Administration prepare a draft statement on points 2 and
3 of the proposed outline of a paper on "Control of Workers'
Organizations in Japan" which the State Department has been asked
to prepare for the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee.
We are pleased to respond to this request and the draft we are
preparing in line with the outline will be delivered to Mr. Martin
by June 20.
Mr. Johnstone and I have discussed this series with Mr. Martin.
There is a great deal to be gained by the kind of cooperation that
/LE
Mr. Martin has initiated on an informal basis and I agree with you
that such cooperation must be the basis of a sound American policy
toward the questions at issue.
I assure you of our sincere desire to cooperate most fully in the
entire program.
Sincerely yours,
Heury F6. Fowler
(eza)
H. H. Fowler,
Director, Enemy Branch
JUN 25 1945
1

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.96)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
Top Secret
TO
: TRC - Mr. Radius
DATE: June 25, 1945
FROM : A-C - Mr. Martin
SUBJECT:
1
In accordance with our conversation of the other
day, I attach statements concerning economic policy
toward Japan during military occupation period. The
894.50/6-2545
longer document was drawn up by the Interdivisional
Committee on Economic Policy Toward Japan and has
received the approval of the Interdivisional Area
Committee on the Far East in so far as it has political
implications. It 1s now being distributed for office
approval.
The shorter document is a section of a relatively
final draft of the general statement on policy toward
Japan in the initial post-surrender period which will
TOP SECRET FILE
be submitted shortly to the President for his approval.
So far as it goes it has received the highest bracket
State Department approval and high level approval in
the War and Navy Departments.
Attachments:
A/MK
Japan: Economic Policies
During Military Occupation
A. General Provisions
C. Economic
DC..IT
894.50
JUN
VD
3.
1949
2543
A-C: EMM:ar

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.93)
Raenins
2
June 19, 1945
SECHT
JAPANI
ECONOMIC POLICI S DURING MILITARY OCCUPATIO
I. INTROLUCTION
This document is Dased on two assumptions: first, that
there will be a full-seele military occupetion of Japan, and
second, thet an de ute mamber of Japanese, ineluding eivil
servants, vill cooperate so thet a civil administration cam
be Gevelo d fter surrenier wich will funetion with fair
effeetiveness urder the policy direetives of the military
authoriti s. It is recognised that as a result the funetioms
of the occu ation wuthorities will be for the wost part
supervisory r ther than udminiatrative. It is of the utmost
importance, th refore, thet these authorities lay down a
clearly defined tramesor of policies to govern the operations
of the Japunose admlmist tive staff.
The im udi t objectives of economie policy toward Japan
1. to enforce a rogran of demilitarization ith the aim
of reventing Japon fron gain developing an economie
warpotuntial;
E. to control the Ju unese sconomy so as to meet the
needs of the occu stion rorces und to prevent starva-
tion or such disease nd civil unrest as would inter
fure with the o er tions of wllitary government;
to urrange For reiiof to the United Nations and
liber ted aroas, for rustitution of identifiable
looted ro erty nd for re aratlons, in accordance
ith dec sions of the uppropriate euthorities.
A technical domilit rimation com is lon oporating in
conjunetion ith milit ry overnment should determine within
the limits of gunoral oliey airectives the most suitable
disposition of fec lities und materials for the produetion
of armaments, hether for conversion to civilian use in
Japan, tr nsfur to Liurtod or other crees, or destructiom
In stablishins control over the Ja anese economy the
occu ying authorities should coneern themselves w1th finaneial
controls, the distribution nd allocation of materials and
com odities, and the rehabilitation of ussential services and
or inuustries roducing needed civilian goods. Policies with
resyect to such controls should so fur us possible be in
harmony  ith the long-range obj ctives of the United States
in the Por st.
In accord

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET
- 2 -
In accord with these objectives military government
should encourage the development of democretic organizations
in l bor, industry, and agriculture, and should favor a wider
distribution of ownership, management and control of the
Japanese conomic system.' However, except as they may be
specifically cirected, the occupation authorities should not
take the initiative with respect to long-range reform or re-
orsanization or the Ja anese int rnal economy. Only where
inturnally s nerat d reform movoments reach significant
proportions, shoule the occu ying forces consider taking any
positive actlon vith respect to them, and then only upon
specific direction of the ap ropriate authorities in Washington.
It is ex vcted that decisions sith respect to reparation
und rustitution deliveries, conforming to the policies laid
dosn in this upur, will De made by a repuration commission,
acting in consultation vith the wilitary covernment.
II. LMILITRITION
The first step in demilitarization will be to see that
all military md mavy install tions, rsonals, and specialized
facilitics used for the production of armaments cease
functionins,  ce t s they may be taken over and used by our
forces. In some cusus the Theutor Comeander may consider
that for the sar ty or lis rorces such facilities must be
destroyed. ho cver, cs a seneral rule, the dismantling and
es ccially the cestruction of facilities roadily convertible
to civilian use in J an or to some use in liberated or sther
ar as should be postponed until the demilitarization commission
can decide on th cost suiteble disposition.
Phw same plicius should sovurn the trutmunt of stocks
of raw mntorials mnd rinished  roducta hich sre readily
convertibl to civilian use.
Jepan shoulo o ermltted to retain no specialized
faciliti s for th procuction or repair of im lements of war
or aireruft of ny ty  nd should be deprived of the excessive
Ieavy industry csp clty nd those Mey inoustries upon which an
atensiv ar inuustry could be reuevelo cd. Control measures
should be formuluted ith the aim of insuring that the Japanose
are unable to duvelo an rmaments industry in the future.
Military sovornment will  sponsible for putting these
controls into ofrect.
III.
• FINANCIAL CONTROLS
The militury covernmont shoulu from the begiming require
the Ju unuse administrative staff to institute mcasures de-
signed to combat infl tion ry tendencies resulting from
shortages

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.93)
SECRET
-3 -
shortugos of sup ly or from an inerease of curreney in cirou-
lation, or from any other cause, Discouragement of expendi-
tures by allied troops and placing a relatively high value
on the yon in torms of dollars are ways in which United States
authorities can directly reduce infletionary pressures in the
occupation period.
In this connection, the following are important issuest
1. Comsodity controls. The esisting price control
machtinery should be utilized if feusible, and appropriate
measurs to stamp out black markets should be enforced. Steps
should be tuken to facilitate the uninterrupted movement of
furm roducts end other consumerst goods to consuming centers.
. Currency  Dan ing control. Control of banking
operations and articularly of curroncy issue will be neces-
Sery. The extension of large credits by financial institu-
tions should be subjcct to control by military government.
No crodit should  atunded Jupan or uny Japanese person,
natural r juridical, by forcign persons or governments,
sacept with the up rov I of wilitory sovernment.
It may be nocuss y to close banks and other financial
institutions tomporerily until arrangesents can be made for
th. n c ss ry control moasurus. If a moratorium is necessary,
comaereial banks, sevings banks, cnd the postal savings system
should be roo uned us sarly us pos ible in order to establish
contiduncu and uncourage duposits. such moasures as an over-
all rruusins of bant deposits sho ld be avoided if possible
ince they tono to ciscouruge deposits. If such measures
becom n ccssary, withdruwals should be Limited to the sums
aecess ry ror livin nd susinuss  punses until conditions
warrant relaxation of these restrictions.
. Figcal control. Ta ation should be muintained at a
high luvel and public ux unditures sho ld be held to a minimum
in order to puduce infl tionary weficit financing. Steps
chould bo ton to rogularize covornmentul fiseal operations
nd to usvist in reestablishing conrldence in financial
institutions. Resum tion of partial or complete service on
the internal puolie dubt at the arlicst feasible date is
d emed esirable.
IV. JAN A 
Subject to certain spccific clusses of exeeptions, ussets
Loceted outside the main lslands und belongins to Japanese
psons should be selzed by the rusponsible governmental
authoritios

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.91)
SECRT
一4-
authorities and held for disposition through the reparations
and rustitution commission. Title to all foreign assets of
the Japanese Government and of Japanese persons domiciled in
the wain ialands should bo seized and held for Later disposi-
tion. Neither the Japanese Government nor Japanese pereons
domicilcd in the main islands may acquire foreign assets
except for ign  change und movable commodities necessary to
approved aport and import transactions.
V. CIVILIAN UPIAVIC
In oruor to fucilitat the restoration and maintenance
of publie oreer the occu ation cuthorities should see that
es ential civiliun cupplics, udecuate to maintain a minimm
subsistonce t. m rd, ur vail ble and equitably distributed.
To tis nd it is iuport nt that rimery distribution services
be roestubli hed s soon as po sible, that steps to achieve
un uquitable distribution be undertakon, and that, where
n cessary, assistence be siven to indigunous prouuction of
civillan su lius in oruor to meut the needs both of the
occu  tion forces  no or the civilian population. No steps
shoula be toaon by the ilit ry covernmunt which would pro
vide a standord of Livine to the Janunese people out of line
ith. tht of neighooring peoples. Imports for these purposes
shoula e subj et to the proviso that where supplies are
inacequate, liburat d  roas should have prefurential treat
m nt. The first c rge on the roceeds of sll approved exports
for p r tions or etorvise shoule bo a sum necessary to
pey forrovee iports.
1. Rehabilit tion of ntial survices. Militury
covurmm nt should diruct the roupt rohabilftetion of essen-
tial wervices to t  tont m cessery to protect publie
alth m to mintain uh pouuetion ume distribution of
re uisite c. vilian sup li s. Perticul r omphasis should be
laccd on uhe  mebilit tion of transportutlon and communi-
c tion  ciliti, no oftor, loctric n as utilities.
 Prouuctlon  consumr oods. In  ting require
monts or the occuputfon forees hd the miniuum noxds'of the
civillan o ul tion the milit r overmmnt should rely to
the ful st catunt os il on the Je ne aericultural.
fishine cad consumer goous inoustrieo. Ir avallable in
view of zorld su  ly und shi ping conclti ns and the require-
ments of our llles, noces  ry uscist nee in the form of
soods me furtilizure, pepeir rts, replecement itoms, and
ras mtorials should be imported. In casus or cxtreme noed
rinished consumer goods may leo to imported.
Thu

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.92)
SECRER
-5 -
The fishing industry should be enoouraged though its
operations may Du restrieted for security purposes. In no
case should militery sovernment assume rosponsibility for
the general rehabilitation of Japanese industries. In-
uustries to bo assisted must be chosen with great care lest
they contribute to the rearmament of Japan or give Japan
some strategic advant-go over other countries.
VI. LO5
With a view to encouruging the development of demo-
cratic roccdures und institutions in Ja an, any laws or
rugul tions which hineer the revival and growth of a free
labor movoumunt shoule be abrosated, and recognition should
bo given to the right or L bor to org nize and to bargain
coliectively. xisting r ctices, controls and legislation
regarding m loyment exchanges, social security bonefits,
und otner social urvices shoule be maintained in so far as
recticable.
VII. JAPAN CTL ORNT
Jupanese firms shoula be rohibited from participating
in inturn tional c rtels und other Pustrictive international
contracts or arrungutunts. isting Japunese participations
in such c rtels or rrunsemunts should be promptly terminated.
VIII. RLULOITION OF UPPLLLA POR SHIPN NT ABROAD
The militury ov rrmont in J un may be faced with
demands from liberated rous ror varlous ty us of goods and
equipmont found in Japan. Pert of those demands may urise
from th. ne d or rurnishine r li f to the liberated areas.
otm rs wilr r  rosent n ttet on the p rt of those areas
to obts in r stitution or loot d ro rty or reparation for
domage wom by th unemy. Milit ry sovernment should not
for ur oses or re ur tion or relief of libercted areas assist
in th  storation or wevelopm nt of Ja unese industries
wich mignt contribute to the rearmament of Japan or whose
apunsion mignt ronote dependence by other countries on
Jupan for str tegie procuets.
L. hwsief for liber ted proan. when roquested by the
uppropri to wuthoritius for the pur ose of discharging the
res onsibilities of mllitary r liuf in the liberated areas,
wilitary sovurnmont may requisition and cport to such areas:
(a) sur lus stouks or uxisting goods und c uipment; and
(b) commodities from current rouuction to the extent that
such socus cr founi to be in cscuss of the minimum requirements
of the

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.93)
-6 -
of the Japanese popul tion. Aocounts should be kept af all
be paid for by the resiplent sountries or charged agaimet
their reparation olaim.
. Bustitutian and Luaxation ven uster derimite
policius ith respost to Japanose restitution and reparatlem
have beun formulatud, the tasks of identifying stalem
uelivorlus of reparation goods aill be beyond the proper
scope of the cilit ry sovurnmant. It is therefere desirable
that re urution nd rustitution duliveries be handled threed
the ruparutions comcis.ion.
If such u coucission hus not buen sut up when Japamese
turritory is occuplcd, it may be nucessary for the military
sovurnment to undert ke temporarily the transfer of seods
and c uipmunt from Jpan to liberated arees on reparatioms
account wliunever such goods are urgently nueded for reeem-
struction or ruhabilitation. In such an event, there should
be stablished un inturim tody to furnial guidanee to the
militury govermment on the relative meeds of the alaimemt
arcus. Tu criturion for the ava:lability of goods and
wyuipmunt for tranafur abroad on repur tions ascoumt should
L: the neuds of the occupation forees and the maintenense

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.80)
D 
1. .
The suneral obj otives of te Unl tad ot tes in poaasd to
Japan ares
i. To uneom ti l urrmes or totul defeut of Jaan
. The trip ing fros the Japanese mpire of torritories,
Includine the Samnted Islunde, in harmouy ith the Cairo
Declarution wnd sucu sther ortinont reornts as may be
reachd uy Use Lnitud N tios, nà to hich the Unitod States
1s  rty
. Ths creation of comlitione hich will insure that
Japan ili not a in boco a wonesco to the peace und aeourity
or the orld;
4. The ventul urgoe of  soverucont in Japun which
wil. res oct the risnts of other st tos nd Japan's inter
national oulictionss nd
t. I vuntuelrticatin f  pon in  morld scomomle
system on  rsonl ais.
1.
Iamodlately u on u ncsaaltlonel arr mler or total dofout
of Jan, the su rume allled com anuer il morelsu supreme
authority over the Gomestic ml for ign affairs or the Jasanese
pire. Sisultamcously, um constitutional o urs of the mperor
shall be suspemoou. all instrus ntelltis hich mrticipate im the
rormoletion or cenalesration of matiemel   licles stall be sue
pended, tm in. the cohivvom nt of the obj ctivoo of military
soverne nt, anl t ir funetlene shel bo cosusud by silitory covern
nt.

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.87)
SCT
~一-
C. CONOMIC
I. TATION
Military sovermment shall enforce a program to demilitarise
industry with the aim of r venting Ja un from ugain developing an
economic ur potential. Thure shall be developed and established a
system of controls that cn be continued after occupation has eoased
and wich ill as ur the continued conomic aisarmament of Jepan
over a lon er period. J an shall be permitted to retain no speo-
i lized fucilitie fo t rouuction or rupair of implements of
war or airer rt or ny ty and shall b. uprived of the heavy
industry ca eclt,  ce sf srmal  eacetime requiroments and
these ky in ustri u en  ie  tunsive ar industry could be
reuevelo ud. P muine ceeislon on wispos tiun sither by trensfer
brod, uo in J n or sera inu, there should ce n cestruction of
recilitis  adily convertiol ts civilian prouuctiun ccept in
mereency si tun tine.
II.CON2OY
In oruer to m t tun noeds of the cccu atiun forces and to
ruv nt st rv tin ne uei i se dd civil unrest as would
interf r ith too o rati no of lie ry overmmont, mrlitary
sovernment shell t  such t s  may to pecessaryith respect
to (a) entil m ti m1 ubli  rvices; (b) finunce and banking;
(c) roouction me cistr buti s of  nti i com ouitles; and (d)
ports nd i  ts. No ts    en t the wilitary govern
mont wnich noulu i th t nd re or living of the Japanese people
to  t nd re t of line h th t of neighboring pooples.
II.
In sceore ree ith cecisiens by the uppro ricte wuthorities,
wilit ry overnm nt uhal. rr no ror rolier to the United Nations
and to liturat d t ce, or r titution or sd ntifiuble looted
ro rty no fer o r tions. Th rirst ch ree on the proceeds of
all up roved  orts, for r r tions or other i se, shall be a sum
necees ry to y ror a roved  o te. Reprations or relier for
liber ted r s shell n t comatitut  sround for the restoration or
development of Jn unes imunotri o  len sight contribute to the
rearmamunt of J n or ho an lon might  romote dependence by
other countries on Jepan for  tr t sle roduets.
IV. PROMOTION OF DNOO TIC FORCS
Milit ry sovernm nt uhell eneourage the cevolo ment of dumo-
c tie oren  tions in 1 bor, induotry, ne riculture, und shall
favor  wluer uistribution or o. neranip, menugtsunt and control of
theJneootom.
V. CONTROL

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.95)
一2
V. CONTROL OF FOREIGN ASOLTS AND CREDIT
No credit shall be extended Japan or any Japanese person by
foreign persons or governments, except with approval of military
government. Military government shall hold for subsequent disposi-
tion title to all roreign assets of the Jupanese govermment of
Japanese citizens and of Japanose corporations domiciled in the
main islands. No Japanese person shall be permitted to aequire
foreign as ets except by specific approval of the military goverm-
ment.

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.97)
TREATMENT OF JAPANESE
WORKERS: ORGANIZATIONS
It is believed that this paper should inolude:
(1) a brief survey of the Japanese labor movement and labor
logdslation
(2) an examination of the possible relationship of the laber
movement to tie future political and economie struotaure
of Japan;
(3) an evaluation if labor and sooial logislation in term
of its contribution to a sound economy and to the
carrying out of security measures; and
(4) recommendation of steps to be taken.

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.83)
STANDARL FORM NO
Öffice Memorandum · UnITED STATEs GOVERNMENT
DATE:
TO : WR
FROM : 巨mH
SUBJECT: alluchmeub
Su as much as Waiten budaph.
and you canfirmed, sand you Too
hame tumarks, & hanger you might
he inleustid in scing ess
reraunke lefare Ihe meutiing.
regreh I bhace ads he. aber Tπ
1
ceclind.

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.96)
July 7, 1945
A-C - Mr. Martin
CD - E.M.Hadley
June 23, 1945 Minutes of Committee on Eoonomic Polioy
Toward Japan
CD has several reservations and one correction to
record with respect to the minutes of the June 23, 1945
meeting of the Committee on Eeonomic Poliey toward Japan.
2a. It is felt that this paragraph does not refleet
the spirit of the presidential direetive which states
without qualirication that it shall be the polioy of
this Government to "encourage the development of demo-
cratic organizations in labor, industry and agrioulture,
and" to "favor a wider distribution of owmership, manage-
ment and control of the Japanese economic system®. The
directive contains no conditioning clause as is indieated
in the minutes that this action will be taken provided
894.50/7-745
it does not place an undue burden on military government.
It would seem more appropriate to try to adjust the
number of military government personnel to the problems
that will exist, rather than to attempt the reverse.
For this reason, on matters of vital security importance
to the United States, it is not thought advisable to
use as the criterion for action in Japan the aceidental
decision of some military commander on the number of men
to be trained by July 1945.
2b. The statement that military government has as
its primary objective the restoration and maintenance of
law and order is ascepted with considerable doubt.
Section I, paragraph 4 of Military Government and Civil
Affairs states: "The object of civil affairs control
through military government is to assist military opera-
SECR
tions, to further national policies and to fulfill the
obligations of the occupying forees under international
law.
2d. It is not thought that this paragraph represents
the concensus of the Committee. The Committee was given
no factpat information on Japanese farm tenancy and
af
51
ar
indebtedness,
C
hev.
SEP 19 1949
FILED
H
Gar.
Dist.
145

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.96)
2
indebtedness, and consequently the members had no cemmon
and authentie baekground of information with whioh to
judge the three poliey papera. Furthermere, simee dis-
cussion sentered on the first paper, altermative appreaches
received little attention. with the facts at their dis-
posal it is not perseived how it would have been possible
for the Committee to have reached any Judgments em the
economio and political effects of the reform of temaney
and the reduction of farm indebtedness.
3. Mr. Rudolph intended to convey the oppesite
impression from that recorded in this section of the
minutes whioh suggests that the "reform of the Japanese
industrial organization will be undertaken in the spirit
that any measures put forward will "lack permanent and
substantial effect", and thus will be of no politieal
value to us and that sonsiderable weight should be
attached to the fact that personnel for such operations
will be costly. Instead Mr. Rudolph intended to suggest
that the problem should be thought of less broadly, that
attention should be concentrated on speeifie steps that
could be taken which would work toward the stated objee-
tive of this Government of favoring the wider distribu--
convey tovsaggest that no fundamental changes were to
be made.
In view of the points disoussed above, OD would
like to see certain changes made in the minutes as they
now stand of the June 23rd meeting.
CD:EMH:moo

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.90)
m Radei
SCRT
Minutes of Meeting of
Interdivisional Committee on Loonomic Poliey Toward Japan
June 23, 1945
Pr sont res
úwin M. MARTIN
AC
Daniel H. BUCHANAN
CP
EPS. M. R. DAUGE.RTY
D
Murrill C. GAY
CP
leenor ReDLay
CD
Wolter b. KAN
LA
OliVer LOCKHART
D
Paul F. MCGUIR
FN
Cov-y T. OLIVR
ltor A. RADIUS
TRC
ltor . RUDOLH
CD
PLilip D. ULLIVAN
ILH
1.  hI rmon made a muab.r of anmpuncements concern
ing rcount cuvulo m nts in connection vith the so-called
"Presiduntial viroctives, the recunt activities or the Far
ust rn ubcomuitt of Swncc, and the discussions on the CAD
ur ft or the Liructiv. from th JCs to the Theater Commander
on the nitial post-surrunuor olicy of military sovermment
in Jupan. Er. LoGuire reported on conversations Initiated by
CAD ith tatu and Truasury vith ruapect to the finaneial
section of wis Li: ctive.
 The thre st t cunts of o ible ilitury sovermment
olicy vith p  cet to ar rion reform, vhich was ciroulated
vith th eunde,  ur iscusscd at length. The conclusions
of this wiscus lon may t. sumrarized as followss
mnil  ro committed to oncouruging demoerutie
ro forms no  vluor distribution of ovnership, manegement
nd control of tho Ja anese vconomic systom, primarily
bec us or   sirabl olitical ff cts of sueh changes
in inere sing our security gainst Japanose eggression,
the tm L msntetion or those policlus must be conditioned
by the costa. It is n cuseury to consiuur the effeet of
or pian  fore on th roduetion of food no the burden
whtch u y vould lect on the number of wilitary covern-
mont ofrie rs  uir e to carry them out.
b. so lone as military sovorms nt mas as its primary
objsetiv. the  storatlon and meintonanee of law and
orter, nd the Japon se civil une eriminel courts are
contihu d in o ri tion ith full sup ort from the present 
olic, md so lond  cilitary covernment ussumes all
olicy rorming pomore, mo important channels are opon for
readjustment

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.90)
SECRET
一2一
Feadjustment and reforn of a substantial character on
the initlative of the Japanese thomselves. By the time
refucturul or  igher Lugislative bodies are permitted
to funetion and assume a broad nough jurisdietion to
purmit them to take stups in the diruction of busie
reforms, much if not all of the steas behind such reforms
7
will prob uly mave been dissipatod. They should be
givon th broadest ossible powers as soon as possible.
but mot much r liunee con be laced on them.
c. T r fer, no im ort nt grerian reform can be
ap cted in the allitery sovernment period unless the
initiativ can o. and is takun by military government.
lthough they may  uct ussistanee in carrying out
their measur s from a mumber of grou s of the Japanese
po ulction.
u. Aftur considering the valus of their economie
and olitical ff ets it is mot judged wisu to undur
take the abolition of tunancy und of farm indebtedness,
srticularly bucause of the efrect of euch measures in
ruducing the su ply of food svailable in urban areas,
their lack of erman nt und substanti 1 cffect on the
conomic position of furmers and, hunee, their lack of
politic l valu to us, nd the cost in  orsonnel of
curryins out such. comple. o. urutions. It is pos ible,
nowevur that J. anoa tunants nd their sympathizers
may tak te s to ffuct u radical chneu in their
position nd tht the roblum will rech such propor
tions th t mills ry sovurnment will bo compelled to
taxe sices. In such ca a full r ort should be made
to ashington, lone Lth peruost for spuciric
cir ctiv s.
 Jur  olitlc 1 ob ctives can wors usufully be
survud by t msur s hich ineroase the ineome of ugri
cnlture. som mimsr ste in this viruction cen be
us fully tmon by milltary sovermment at a low cost
in rson i, but mo major la rovomont can be made
e t rorl etion of a sonr 1 relsins of the
Jopeneae n tienal incoe cnd such an improvement in
its distributi n es  ill upprociably reduce the mumber
or coplu ue undent u on t lane for  living.
f. Among those s ceifie moesures whose velue will
ju tiry their cost to militery ovormment may be a
adjustmont of tus so that agriculture and the low
income classes Gumerally Deur a fuirer share of the
tot l louds the  etiv. neouragem nt of agriculture
crodit,

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.91)
SECRET
一  一
crodit, urchasing and marketing cooperatives; a
reduction in the price to the farmer of artifieial
fortilisers; the contimued support of stable prices for
rice cnd rus silkj careful roview of presont legislation
with reapuct to land tonure and farm debts to insure
that the Landlord-tenantry relationship is on the most
quitabl ossible besis and, that the full finaneial
resourees of covernment are committed to roviding the
ch a ust ossible crudit to f rmers.
. iter iscussion it s gunerally agrced that
though teir ap lic tion may dirfer, the same general prin
ci l s should be used in approaching the role of militery
sov rnm nt in the roform or Japane. è inaustrial and Japanese
labor organizations.
The ting djourned at so p.m.

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.96)
Office of
FAR EASTERN AFFAI
rile
JUL 2 4 1945
Department of State
Room 309, Government
JUL 2 1 1945
George Washington Univ.
DC/R
July 20, 1945
The Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D.C.
251945
Dear Mr. Secretary:
The onelosed documont is submitted for your cor
in the wei in of the problems relating to postwar Japan.
For the pust yoar  have been officially associated with
the problons concerning the policies roleting to Japan by
virtue of having boen n aalyst in the Japan section of
the offico of ur Inforation. Por five years prior to
that timo I have been a close student of Japan in particular,
894.50/7-2045
and of tne Far Eust in conoral. At the presont time I am
engaged in writing a greduate thesis at the above mentioned
uliversity.
The intont ane purpose of the cocuont should bo clear
upon roading. it has boen my conviction that the policies
iseussed ve  direct bouping on tho presont state of
Japanese thinking relating to their position at tho current
stugo of the c mflict. It is lopod that the policios
rocumended wil. be reviowed carefully by those ultimately
responsible for such policy with  view to dotormining the
possible merit of each.
The classification of the onclosed document has been made
arbitrarily. If uny question trises as to the security issue,
there aro only two copies--Tho Departmont of State and The
CS
White  ouse--and tho drafting copy has boen dostroyed.
/LE
Vory rospectfully yours
Louall P. Kay
Donala P. Ray
894.
50
DOR NE D
nn!

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.95)
d
CONFIDENTIAL
A surrender olic for Japan--a current subject of
debato--is of roat importance at this time. It is well
to hour all sides of the question bofore reuching what we
cll hope cnd pray will be the most intelligont decision.
Lut it is nocessury to carefully sift all points and orient
thom to the probable shifts in Japanese thinking brought
ubout by the incro sing intensity of the United Hations
offensive in tno Fur East. Above all, What is needed is
the decision he it is with un urging on this mattor that
this uppoul is made.
An enulysis of Ja anese psycholocy, which is slowly
becoming ware of the obviousness of defeat, indicates that
Juptn is currontly tuinking in tomms of just what the loss
of tho wur will meun to the nation. If we accept such
cuncorn to bo roul, viich we most surely must, we can build
nd uido Jupnese t in ing toward uccepting surrender as
tho intolligent choice.
The majority of the terms of surrondor are obvious
both to ourselves und to tho Ju nese. others are of such
a doliccte nature that the solection of one which will cive
the Japnoso domestic propaganda machino a peg upon which
to oporate will in cll probability prolong the war in direct
proportion to the dogree of frustration which it will produce.
The followin briof discussion is centerod about thoso
s ecific itoms upon vhic un oxtremely cureful choice must
bo ..ae.
The first point upon which a careful policy decision

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.95)
8
é
must be made is that of tho length of the occupation period.
Military nocossity comunds a short period of occupation, and
the Jt panese will understand this prospect. What will operate
to stiulate fichting spirit, however, is a policy of pro-
longed occupation with the obvious purpose of re-making the
Japanoso political and social system and forcing its acceptance.
That we desire a cnnnged domestic systen in Japan is not a
point which is essentially a war aim. There are in this.
c untry, however, propagandists of varied background who wish
to see this c unge brougnt ubout so badly that they would
suborainate the prospect of un carly end of tho war in order
that t ey might see their ends gained. The bogy which those
Who rue for the oliminution of various aspects of Japanese
socioty--und vho offer no rutional substitute program--use is
that Japan mignt ugin rise us  world power and as a threat
to world peace; needless to suy this fact is inconsistent
with the united  ations Charter and with world organization,
which is our only real u runteo of the end of a history of
intornational Cerossion.
In documentation of the point of not using occupation
boyond the requirements of militury necossity, one side of
the ar ument prosented by Dr. villian C. Johnstone in The
Future of Jupun muy be used:
The ideu of tuking udventage of occupation for the
purpose of brin ing about roforms has mot with strong
objections. Attepts at enforced reforms aro held to
be unworlable, with littlo chance of success. To impose
uny ulion iueus of institutions on the Japanese, it is
sserted, would not only stiffon their dosire for
revengo tnd incrouse their hatred of the United Nations,
but would lso violute the United Nutions principle of
solf-dotemmination. Occupation for this purpose has also

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.99)
been opposed on more practical grounds. In an artiele
in Harpers Magazine for April l944, Nathaniel Peffer
asserts that there are not enough persons trained in
Japanese lan uage and customs or skilled in publio
administration to staff a long-term occupation govern-
mont for Japan.
From other United Nations come still different
objections to the proposal of occupation and administration
for the purpose of reforming Japanese ideas and institutions.
A British group states that 'There could be no surer way
of playing into tho hands of the military caste, dis-
crodited by defeat, than to corral the people of Japan
in an Anglo-Saxon kindergarten of internationalim.
Chinose, Filipinos, und representatives of other Asiatio
peoplos have objected to occupation for reform as too
closely reseabling the old pattern of western imporialism,
by which Japan migit tond to become a new dependeney of
the western nations.
In support of teso points it should be considered as basio
timt political unu sociul changos of a lasting nature in a
country of oxtremo nationaliam cun only be initiated by the'tm 
nutionals of the country. In tho case of Japan, therefore,
our policy should not bo un attonpt to force a change from
without, but to encourage a change from within. Above all,
it should not bo our policy to threaten to impose alien
change and rule as a means of encouraging the surrender of
Japan.
The second point upon which a careful policy decision
imust be made is that of the postwar status of the Emperor
of Japan, and it is upon this point tiat we wust use especial
care unless we unwittingly conmait ourselves to a long war.
The roal position of the Emperor in Japan even as a core of
militarism is to be debated; it is reudily agreed by those
who know the country well that his position as a deified
leuder really exists in the minds of a majority of the
population of the urbun ureas and among most of the military

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.98)
C
personnel, and not among the population of areas remote
from the cities or of tho intelligentsia within urban areas.
The popular vriter in this country has tended to over-emphasize
the fact that the Emporor is all-powerful and that Japanese
militarism flows forth from his being. Tho danger in this type
of writing, beside tho fuct that it is not wholly true, is
that it tonus to dissolve militarism into the very definition
of the word Japan, and not, therefore, to cleave the military
in order to leavo it standing by itself for elimination.
It has become apparont that the Emperor has largely
been used as a metns of aining popular support for tho
desires of the military through the convenient device of that
Which wo imow us State Shinto. It logically follows that to
forcefully eliminate the Eaperor is essentially underwriting
the very negative and chimerical domestic propaganda policy
of the Japanoso military.
Tho doubtfulnoss of just how widely in Japan the position
of the hmperor extonds does not preclude the fact that the
military is ablo to use his position as tho key to its
domestic propaganda schemes among a possible majority of the
people. It becomes clear, therefore, that an attack on the
Emporor by the enemy (U) is procisely the means by which
the military can wrongly emphasize the predatory nature of
the enemy (un) to gain support for irrational continued
resistance.
The hignly doubtful policy of abolition of the Eperor
by resorting to the forceful mouns of military advantage held

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.98)
5
by the United Nations can be documented by quoting again
from one point of view as expressed in The Future of Japan:
On tho other hand, it is quite possiblo that
abolition of the Throne by the United Nations would
serve to make the Imporial funily martyrs in the eyes
of the Japanese people and would so intensify their
hatrod against their former enemios, particularly against
the United States, as to make construction of a new
Covernmental system impossiblo. The Japanese people
mi ht regurd the abolition of the Throne as such an
unwarranted and unnecessary attack upon their most sacred
national institution that thoy would refuse to cooperate
with any liberal roups who wished to take advantage of
United Nations assistance in the trying tasks of political,
economic, und social reform. If this occurred, the
Unitod Mations would faco the problem of either continuing
to occupy and adninister Japan indefinitely or of
modifying the original policy. Or, if a new government
was formed, mny Japanese might regard such a regime as
a puppet of tho United Nations, and their compatriots in
such & covernmont as 'collaborators! with their former
onemies. The Unit ed Wations would then be in the position
of supporting a covernnent that lacked inherent stability
and would collapse as soon as thoir support was withdrewn.
The disadvantages of diroct United Nations abolition
of the Imporial Throne would seem to outwoigh the
advantages. For if it is true, as Dr. Sun Fo states,
that democracy cannot be instituted by Imperial Rescript,
then it is cqually true that democracy and peacoful
dovolopment cannot be instituted successfully by United
Nations fiat. Therefore, the only other altornative is
a comprehensive policy of positive United Hations
assistance to those Japanese who are propared to roform
their institutions and ro-order their national beliofs
so as to make possible and desirable tho elimination of
tho Throne by their ovm efforts.
It would seem to be basic that in consideration of the
position of the institution of tho mperor our policy should
be neither its direct support nor its forceful abolition
because either would bo quite inconsistent with political
theory. Cur policy should be that consistent with the
principle of self-dotormination of nations, specifically
interproted in this case to mean that the position of the
imperor will be one which will be decided upon by the people

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.96)
5
3
i
of Japan and not by invading foreign military authorities.
The importance of this policy in relation to the shortening
of the period of hostilities is paramount.
The third point upon which we should exercise care in
making policy is that concernod with out intentions regarding
the Jepanese social system. Much has been written by our
friend, the popular writer, on the sweeping changes which
must be made in Japan after the war, and much of this has,
unfortunately, cone to Japan through Japanese intelligence
channels. The popular writer, invariably not a student of
the orthodox social sciences, has failed to offer a feasible
substitute social system, and his ideas have gone to official
Japan as those which leave fear and doubt as to the ultimate
intentions of the United lations. It is not to be challenged
that there is a necessity for changes in the Japanese way of
living. Any placo which the United Wations may have in these
chunges, howevor, must be definitive.
There are in Japan strong groups who believe in the
capitalistic system of cconomic society. It is true that
these croups ure largely ropresontative of reactionary
capitalism, but such croups must be supported as a core of
the future Japunese economy if for no other reason than
that the substitute for a capitalistic society is obvious.
The place of our powerful ally of northern Europe und Asia
in the United Hations and hor relative position in the Far
East serves to accontuate Japanese fears on this point.
Thore is historical proof that essentially it is not

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.98)
the above mentioned old Zaibatsu groups that basically
constitute the perversion in tho Japanese political system,
althou h it is true that they have been obliged to share in
the profits of war. Our real enemies can be closely allied
withh the anti-capitalistic movement in Japan, and this point
can be documented by quoting from a basic, recont political
history of Japan--Japan: Government-Politics, by Dr. Robert
Reischauer:
'Lion' Hamaguchi had replaced Baron Wakatsuki as
president of the Minseito after the latter's Cabinet
foll in 1927, and he now organized a Minseito Party
Cabinet. In world affairs, the Cabinet succeeded in
putting through the London Naval Limitation Treaty,
although only at the cost of a heated bout in which it
was hinted that the Privy Council might be packed if
nocessary. In Chinese affairs, a definitely 'conciliatory!
policy was pursuod. Diplomats who would be regarded
vith favor in Nanking were substituted for the
domineering fire-eaters who had so antagonized the
Lational Government before. Until diplomacy was taken
from the Foreign Ministry's hands in the fall of 1931,
much was accomplished by this policy toward the peaceable
sottlement of tho numerous points at issue between the
two covermments. In domostic policy, Hamaguchi pressed
noro zealously than ever his determination for retrenchment
and roform. By the reorganization of governmental
administration, including the armny, he aimed at the
roduction of tho ruming expenses of government, and to
naintain an energotic fight aguinst the world-wide
depression, which Japen was only then beginning to feel.
In consequence of all this, while the Cabinet
onjoyed the favor of a large section of the people--the
liberals cnd cortein classes of business magnates--it
was cordially hatod by others. Particularly, it incurred
the Posontmont of the army and of the newly crystallizing
young militarist clique.
The point of approach, therofore, should be that the
United Nations support a basic liboral-capitalistic fomm of
oconomy for Japan after the war. Any inference which the
Japaneso might cain which will load thom to think that it
will be the policy of the United Nations to eliminate the

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.99)
8
capitelistic form of society from Japan will force groups
who might otherwise influence a cessation of hostilities to
swing to the militarist way of thinking--end prolong the
war.
In sunnary of the above discussion there are three
points of policy upon which it is imperative that we clarify
to tho Japanose if we aro to effect unconditional surrender
at the earliest possible time. These points are:
1.
It is not the policy of the United Nations
to occupy Japan for an extended period of
time or for the express purpose of using
military force to rule and administer her
subjects.
2.
It is tho policy of the United Nations to
neither support nor eliminate by force the
institution of the Emperor of Japan, but
to adhere to tho principle of the self-
determination of all pooples to select
their owm form of covernment in so far as
that covornment does not embody the
philosophy of foreign encroachment.
3.
It is tho policy of the United Nations to
ondorso a liboral-capitalistic form of
political cconomy in postwar Japan.

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.96)
JUL28
In reply refer to
JA
My dear Mr. Ray:
The receipt 1s acknowledged of your letter of July 20,
1945 with which was transmitted a dooument presenting your
views on problems relating to post-war Japan with special
reference to the question of unoonditional surrender.
I have read you? carefully prepared paper and shall
pass it on to other officers oharged with matters relating
to Japan. The Department is always glad to receive thought-
ful suggestions on matters pertaining to foreign affairs
and gives very careful study to them in the forwulating
of policies and plans.
Sincerely yours,
For the Acting Becretary of State:
ER
Erle R. Diokover
Chief
Division of Japanese Arfairs
CR Mr. Donald P. Ray,
JUL
45
Room 309, Government,
WT
George Washington University,
JA:HLory: el
Washington, D.C.
7-25-45

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.82)
7/22/45
:27r. Long
mr. hoyore asbed
if you wauld plros
handle thes?
Thark you.
90
7.24-45
memo liansunthry
Prey

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
July 28, 1945
In reply refer to
FC
894.50/7-28
The Department of State transmits to the following
the attached information in the hope that it will be of
value:
Military Intelligence Division
Captain Wallace S.Wharton
5
Room 2700, Building L,
Office of Naval Intelligence
Navy Department.
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Office of Strategic Services
C
S
!LE
Enclosure:
1. Memorandum of conversation on
"Japanese Post-War Problems";
2. Biographical sketch of Ikuo Oyama.
894.50
FC:RDLongyear:CMW
à trne copy
the signed 
ad Cmun
13

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.96)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
CONFIDENTIAL
D: July 23, 1945
TO
: FC: Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
FROM : FE: J. K. Emmerson
suc: Memoranda for Captain Wallace S. Wharton -
Navy Department
CP16-3-7
It is requested that the attached
memoranda: (1) memorandum of conversation
on "Japanese Post-War Problems", and (2)
request for biographical data on Japanese
nationals in the United States, be forwarded
to Captain Wallace S. Wharton, Navy Department.
7/27/45-
FE:JKEmHePson:ead

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
8/18/45
Mr.Dort:
Mr. Kahn talked to Mr. Thorp
on the phone about this. Mr. Thorp
asked that I send the memo to you.
Eva Hallam

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.96)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
TO
: A-C - Mr. Willard L. Thorp
DATE: August 18, 1945
WM
FROM : LA - Mr. Valter B. Kahn
SUBJECT:
Iamediete Food Suoplies for Chinese Port Towns.
The presence in ashington of Dr. Soong presents the
no sibility of getting immediate actian to further the
sipment of food and other supplies to China, more par-
894.50/8-1845
ticularly the port towns, vhich would not otherwise take
pl ce promptly. As matters now seem to stand, neither the
rmy nor FEA nor UNRRA, is prepared to take inmediate
action; the Army is disinclined to send civilian supplies
except because of the presence of American troops; FEA, at
least pending clarification of general policy, is holding
its orograms in abeyance; UNRRA is running short of funds
CS/G
 ich it will teke some time to renlenish. The Chinese
Purchasing Co mission has no co mensurate funds at its dis-
posal.
The Chinese covernment hovever has large available
balances. Port of these balances could presumably be allo-
cated by Dr. Soong to the Chinese Purchasing Commission
wich could procure and ship; or, irectly or indirectly,
8
adequate funds could be made available to FEA which is
equiuped to preceed i edistely, on a reimbursable lend lease
5
basis,with plens already formulated.
RR
0
18-1845
LA:WBKahn:md

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.93)
AUG 301945
In reply refer to
A-C
RLSTRICTED
My dour General Reybold:
My attention has been called to a proposal which has
been drawn up by the United States Geological Survey of
the Departmont of the Interior for the conduct of a survey
of the geology of the Japanese mandated islands of the
Pacific, with special reference to their economic value.
Such a survey would provide information which would
be of value to the State Department in formulating United
States policies w1th respect to these islands and their
resources. The inforuation now available on them is
8
wholly inade uate for this purpose.
6
4.
It is my understanding that so long as these areas
remain under the jurisdiction of the military authorities,
5
50/8-3045
such a survey would be undertaken in cooperation with the
Corps of engineers which vould be in a position to add in
many ways to its success. If before the survey were
completed these areus shoula ruturn to civilian jurisdio-
tion, the State Department will be happy to seek to make
whatever arrangements are necessary to insure its com-
pletion.
0.7
If the Cores of Engineers and the Geological Survey
decido to undertake this project, I should like to be
informed. The Office of the Assistant Secretary for
conomic Arfuirs will assist in any way it can in further
()
planning und currying out this project.
S
DUk
Poit
Sincerely yours,
1
1
Gat
Willard L. Thorp
Deputy to the Assistant Secretary
AUG 27 45
For Mconomic Affairs
AUG 30 945
cc: Mr. Charles B. Hunt
f
Lieutenant General Eugene Reybold,
Chief of ingineers,
Staff Geologist
3
Dept. of Interior
0
Corps of Engineers,
Washington, D.C.
War Department,
5
Washington 25, D.C
A-C: EMM: ar
8/24/45
JAIN
aLe

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.97)
9-12
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
IEL
DATE: September 12, 1945.
ITP: Mr. Clair Wilcox
WM
TO
LA:
Mr. Dallas Dort
LA:
Mr. Walter B. Kahn
FROM :
Paper on "Policy with Respect to Relier (Japan)"
SUBJECT:
I an attaching hereto the revised version of the
894.
above paner. As you know, the basic policy papers
have undergone at least two major chenges; more detailed
1.50/9.1245
paners, such as this one, are in substantial part
corollaries of the basic papers and therefore have to
be redrafted as the basic policy papers change.
I hope thet this is the last version.
OFFICE OF
INTERNATIONAL TRADE POLICY
Attachment.
0721:1945
DEPAITMENT OF STATE
LA: WKahn: abe

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.95)
September 11, 1945
Peliey with Respeet to Relief (Japam)
THE FROHLEN
1. To determins the policies with respeet to ralief
whieh whould be followed by the Supreme Commander in Japam,
including the level of subsistence to be considered desirable
and the measures to be taken to secure and distribate needed
supplies.
EACTS BEARING ON THE PROHLEN
3WNCC 160/4, approved by the Pres1dent on September 6,
ineludes the folloving statements:
Ia
"The Japanese people shall be afforded opportumity
to develop for themselves an economy whieh will permit
the peacetime requirements of the population to be met."
IV 3
"The policles of Japan have brought down upon the
people great sconomic destruetion and confronted them with
the prospeot of esonomie difrioulty and muffering. The
plight of Japan ie the direot outcome of its own behavier,
and the Allies will not undertake the burden of repairing
the damage. It ean be repaired only if the Jmpanese people
renounoe all military aims and apply themselves diligently
and with single purpose to the ways of peaseful living.
It will be neceseary for them to undertake phymical reson-
struetion, deeply to reform the nature and direetion of
their economie activities and insti tutions, and to find
useful employment for their people along linee adapted to
and devoted to peace. The Allies havs no intention of
imposing conditions which would prevent the aocomplishment
of these tasks in due time.
"Japan will be expected to provide goode and serviees
to meet the needs of the oocmpying forces to the extent
that this can be sfreoted without eaueing starvation,
widespread disease and acute physioal distress.
"The Japanese authorities will be expected, and if
neoessary directed, to maintain, develep and enferee pro-
grams that serve the folloving purposes:
(a) To
SECRET

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.96)
-2
"(a) To avoid acute eeonomie distress
(b) To assure just and impartial distribusien
of availeble supplies...
(a)
To fasilitate the restoration of Japamese
osonomy so that the reasonable pensefal
requirements of the population can be
satisfied."
The Kconomie Direotive - Part I
not
"3. You willassume any responsi billty for the
economlc rehabilitation of Japan or the strengthening of
the Japanese coonony. You will maks it olear to the
Japanese people that:
A. You assmme no obligatione to maintain, or
have maintained, any partioular standard of living
in Japan, and
b. That the standard of liying will depend
upon the thoroughness with which Japan redireets the
use of its human and natural resourees wholly and
colely for purposes of peaceful living, administers
adequate coonomic and financial controls, and
cooperates with the cccupying foroes and the govern-
ments they represent."
The Economic Directive - Part II
"B. CIVILIAN SUPPLY AND RELIEP
Civilian Supply Policy and Standard
of Provision
"19. a. You will assure that all praoticable
economic and police measures are taken to aohieve the
maximum utilization of essential Japanese resourees in
order that imports into Japan may be strietly limited.
Sueh measures will include production and price controls,
rationing, control of blaok markets, fisoal and finan-
cial controls and other measures direeted toward full
employment of resouroes, faellities and means available
in Japan.
b. You will be responsible for providing
imported supplies only to mupplement local resourees and
only to the extent supplementatlon is meeded to prevent
such widespread disease or oivil unrest as would endanger
the occupying forses or interfere with military operations.
Such imports will be confined to minimum quantities of
food, fuel, medieal and eanitary smpplies and other eseen-
tial items, including those whioh will enable loeal pre-
duction of such swpplies which you would otherwise have
to import.
"a. If
BEORET

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.95)
-8
". If you deem that you whould assuss
responsibility for additional imperts to aesemplich she
objeetives of your osoupation, you will mbmis your
reoommendasions to the Joint Chlefe of Staff.
23. Sapplies delivered to mpply mgeneies or ether
consignees will be sold by them through distribetien
channels and in ascordance with distribution polieies
satisfaotory to you and at prices determined by you to
be consistent with the internal economy. When military
nesessity requires, civilian mpplies may be made the
subjeet or direst relief issue by you or by supply agon-
eies under your supervision or control."
DISCUSSION
1. The responsibility for the welfare of the
Japsnese people is placed upon the Japanese authorities.
The administration of relief, in the usual sense, is not
the funotion of the Supreme Commander and gratuitous
distribution of supplies by-the-Supreme Commander, as
direct relief, is authorized only me military necessity
may require. (Eoonomie Directive, paragraph 23).
The problem of rellef, in the mense of imports to
supplement Japanese resouroes, is an integral pert of
the general problem of supervising or direeting the
economy of Japan.
2. The central issue of relief poliey is the
extent to whieh the oecupation authorities should sponsor
imports. Although the poliey statements cited in the
Faets do not contain a positive statement on this point,
they do contain prohibitlons whioh clearly point the way
to such e statement.
A top limit on the extent to which the Supreme
Commander may go on his own authority is contmined in
paragraph l9b of the Economio Direotive:
"You
SEOBET

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.97)
"You will be respeasible for providing
imported smpplies ealy to smpplement leeal
resources and only to the extent supplemen-
tation is needed to prevent sueh widespread
disease or eivil warest as would enfanger
the oodupying forees or interfere with mili-
tary pperations."
This does mot require importation but rather sets
the limit to which the Supreme Gommander may go. For imports
beyond this level, he must seek approval from the Jeint
Chiers of Starf in accordanee with the provisions of para-
graph 19d of the Egonomie Direetive.
Within this top limit how far should he go? Both
SWNCC 150/4 and the Seonomie Direetive contain atatements
which barely fall short of a positive prohibition against
any assistance. The whole.tenor of the passages quoted
from SWNCC 150/4 are that the Japanese people are rempen-
sible for their hardships and that they themselves mmst
find their way out.
The Economio Direotive is more explioit. Paragraph 3
states:
"You will not assume any responsibility for the
sconomle rehabilitation of Japan or the atreng-
thening of the Japanese eeonomy. You will make it
elear to the Japanese people that:
A. You assume no obligation to maintain, or
have maintained, any partioular standard of living
in Japan, and
b. That the standard of living will depend
upon the thoroughness with whioh Japan redireets
the wee of its humam and natural resourees wholly
and solely for purposes of peaceful living.
administers adequate cconomie and finaneial con-
trols, and cooperates with the ocoupying forees
and the governments they represent.
The only statement imvolving any remponsibility on
our part for the Japanese standard of living is the purely
negative one, prohibiting us from taking for the comupatien
forees

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.95)
-
foress quantities of goeds suffieient to samse "starvatiom,
widespread disease and asute physisal distress." The
responsibility for the safety of the ossmpying forees
ultimately rests on the Supreme Commander witheut refer-
ence to any statement of responsibility teward the Japanese
on their ascount.
Therefore, it is conoluded that the peliey of the
Supreme Commander should be to provide no relief assistanse
unless the safety of the ccoupying forees seems to require
it, or until the Japanese Government has requested it and
it is demonstrated (a) that conditions are smeh, or threatem
to become such, as to seriously endanger the oecupation
forces by exposing them to widespread disease or as to per-
manently prevent the accomplishment of our long-range
objectives, and (b) that the Japanese Government and people
have made every reasonable effort to correct the situation.
It is dirficult to translate such a poliey into pre-
cise terms, and at this distanoe probably unwise to attempt
to be too specific. The Eeonomic Direotive, partioularly
in paragraph 19a, contains a number of suggestions as to
b
steps the Japanese people should/expected to take. Some
diseussion of measures of the minimum levels to which the
Japanese people may be expected to adjust, if necessary,
seems appropriate. Such a disoussion may also be useful
as an aid in foreoasting the need for rellef since, in many
cases, shipments must be decided on some months before arrival.
These criteria for the guidance of the Supreme
Commander do not at this time require detailed mupplementa-
tion to guide aotion in Washington on requests from the
Supreme
SROBET

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.98)
Sapreme Commander for supplies needed to aesomplish the
general purposes of the oecupation.
In summary of this seetion, the restoretien of
Japanese ssonomic well-being is referred to in the peliey
statements only as "eventual" or "in due time" and as
something we will do nothing to prevent. For the presemt
no responsibilities should be contemplated above thess
permitted by paragraph l9b. The amounts of various supplies
used for peaceful civilian consumption before the war do
not constitute requirements under present oiroumetances
and such amounts do not constitute a basis for imperts or
for oaloulating import requirements, though they may serve
as some indication of what requests to expeet. It is the
implied sense of the quotations cited under Faets that a
considerable measure of physical hardship for some time
would aceelerate Japanese efforts to help themselves and
would do no harm to our ultimate objectives. The burden
of preor rests on the plea for imports.
3. It is diffioult to measure "sueh widespread
disease or civil unrest as would endanger the occupying
forces or interfere with military operations." Civil
unrest can readily arise for reasons other than.the food
supply or economic
conditions.

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.97)
7
senditions. Starvation usually expresses iteelf first
in disease. Therefore, it appears that some mememre of
conditions to be avoided san be sought in the diseass
rates. The disease rate should, therefore, be used as
an index of the need of impreving produetion or distribm-
tion of the nesessities of life, or, if Japanese offorse
seem to be fully adequate, of the need of smpplementatiem
by imports. It is recommanded that disease statisties
provided by the Japanese authorities be earefully chesked
by independent sampling of the disemse rates, ir these
rates are used as recommended.
4. Some discussion of minimum levels seems appre-
priate. Reference is made to the folloving paragraph:
"You will make it olear to the Japanese
people that you assume no obligations to
maintain, or have maintained, any partiemlar
standard of living in Japan.
The adequaoy of a diet depende upon various eiroum-
stanoes--adequaoy of shelter and olothing, the amount of
aotivity required of the individual, his diet habits, and
the composition of the diet. The average pre-war per
capita diet in Japan was about 2, 250 calories.
Food produotion from the four home islands only,
for the past two years, is estimated to have been the
equivalent of something over l700 calories, average dally
per capita. This produotion was not as well balanoed as
the pre-war diet. The princlpal defielenoies arising from
depending on the home lelands would be soya beans, sugar,
salt, and, ourrently, fish.
SEGRET

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.96)
In terms of calories, 1t is believed that abemt
1200 ealories, assuming adequats varioty, as average for
a whole population, is adequate to prevent starvation.
At this level there would, after some months, be imereased
susseptibility to disease, but there would not be starve-
t100.
Beyond a perlod of a few months, it is believed
that a diet containing l500 to 1700 calories would probably
need to be maintained to prevent sueh starvation, wide-
spread disease or oivil unrest as would endanger the
objeotives of the oocupation.
No quantitative standard of the shelter, alothing
and publio services is possible. Elsewhere it is suggested
that the aggregate of physieal nonditions be measured, for
the vrcufation
the purposes of es, by disease rates.
No referenee is made in SWiCC l80/4 to the uee of
the standard of living of allied countries as a yardetick
to measure the permissible standard of living in Japan.
The question of how high the standard of living in Japan
should be allowed to rise is not a question of relief but
is allied more nearly to the question of reparations and
our political and eoonomic objeotives.
5. It would be desirable to be able to present
some ostimate in tonnage and value of the supplies which
may be requested by the Japanese.
The ability of the Japanese to provide for them-
selves depende to a large extent (apart from the akill and
cooperation of the people and the government) upon two
faetors

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.97)
一
fastors which ean not be ascertained here at this time--
the stooks of supplies they will have on hand and the
extent of the destrustion of facilities that has taken
place. As to starvation, howaver, it seems unlikely that
arops and stoeks of food have been destroyed to an sxtent
suah that adequate amounts of food, muffieient to prevent
starvation, will not be available. Transportation is
more likely to be lacking than food mupplies and it is to
be anticipated that trueks probably will be needed. The
other requests over a longer period would probably ineluder
(a) Eertillzer. Before the war Japan imported
over a million tons a year, mostly of phosphate material
but, in some years, as mueh as 300, 000 tons of ammonium
sulphate. The value was something over $20,000,000. Some
proportion of the usual imports will, eventually, prove
nesessary to sustain domestic food production.
(b) Clothing. The Japanese are reported to have
been using various grasses and low grade woodpulp - tame
artifielal fibres. They have probably aleo been mixing
in their silk. Military stocks of cloth may be high,
but civilians have been receiving only a emall proportion
of their umual textiles.
Normally about one-third of the textile industry
produced enough for peacetime domestie purposes. The
machinery needed to convert raw fibres into a "diseame
and unrest" textile capmeity would almost certainly be
available - perhaps by eannibalization - even after
severe destruetion. Something of the order of 200,000
bales

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.96)
-10
bales of sotson (worth about $25,000,000) and abous
$10,000,000 worth of raw wool should be fully adequate.
(e) ugar. A userul incentive stufr, high-prieed
im the blask maxket. Five pounds per eapita per year
would come to 175,000 toms, worth about $10,000,000.
(d) Saxkeans. The average export of soybeams
frem Manehmr1a 1n the yeare 1933-37 was 2,064,000 metrie
tons (ineluding soybean eil equivalent). In the peried
1931-37 Japan imported fron Manohuria an anmmal average
of rbout 500,000 tons. This amount has roughly been
trebled in 1943 and 1944. In the years 1956-39 Japan
took from all sources about 1,200,000 tons of soybeans
annually. Soybeans were an important element in diversi-
fying the Japanese diet. They are not nesessarlly
indispensible in terme of the methods and purposes of
the ocoupation but should figure among the first food-
stuffs to be imported into Japan if foodetuffs are imported.
Other oil seeds to the extent of about 250,000 toms
annual average were imported in the years 1936-1939.
(e) Salt. Salt was imported to the extent of
about 1,500,000 tons 1n 1956-39. It is not known how
muoh of this was necessary for wse in connection with
food, but unofrieial reports of the black market priee
for salt indicate thet it might be one of the best produets
to import in quantity for inoentive purposes.
(r) Lual. No data at hand surfieient to Justify
disoussion.
(g) Other materiala. Other goods, sueh as rubber
and leether, may alse prove desirable, for inoentive pur-
poses, but, by a striot interpretation of "disemse and

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.96)
-11-
unrest", it is not clear that they will be needed.
(h) Larta. It will probably be wise to consider
favorably minor parts and supplies to faollitate loesl
production adequste to the diseass and unrest standard,
particularly fuel, and mpplies not domestically avall-
able, for the fishing fleet.
(1) Eagilisies. There is likely to be diseass
and unrest in the oities unless the services are restored -
partioularly water and sewnge disposal. It will be difri-
oult to sand provisions to the cities unless the railroads
and highways - bridges, tunnels and suoh struetures are
restored, and unless rolling stock or trucks are avail-
able. The Japanese themselves should be snoouraged to
undertake this work; for us to undertake it is beyond the
seope of rellef, in terms of the policies set forth and
almo in terms of the cost, tonnage required and competing
superior demands of allies for the materials.
Considering the difrioulties of e stablishing sani-
tary conditions in the oities and of transporting food to
them, a movement of people from the cities to agricultural
districts should be encouraged, and the reverse movement
prohibited except in the cass of people with needed speeial
skille.
6. Meamures to be taken to secure and dietribute
needed supplies. This is a question of the general
economic management of the country rather than of relief
as such. However, it is gonaidered advisable:
(1) That widespread publieity be given to the
general polioy of the ocoupying authority, that the occupy-
ing authority assumes no obligation to maintain any
particular

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.91)
pertioslar tantard of living la e
Japanese connst rely upen iaperte hat as dopet e
the affestivemese of the govermmens and people 
utilizing their owm resserees.
(2) That dispersien of people frem feed dedess
arees to food curplus areas should be indeesd or pee-
longed, exoeptions being made in easss ef people with
neoded special skills.
(s) That messures be encouraged leoking toweré
produstion and price comtrols, ratioming, somtrel of
black markets, and the like, leoking toward the most
effeotive and equitable distribution of smpplies, as
set forth in paragraph 19a quoted above.
(4) In view of probable loss of comfidemes in
the yen, the produotion of imoentive goods should be
encouraged in order to provide a motive to farmege and
others for them to sell their prodmse.
RECOMMENBATIONS
1. Imported supplies may be provided omly when
it is clear that adequate Japanese efforts sannot produse
or have not produced materials essential to a stendard
of physioal well-being below which there would be smah
starvation, widespread diseaee or oivil unrest as would
elearly endanger the vooupying forees, or interfere with
military operations, or prevent the mecomplishmams of
the purposes of the osompation. The burdem of pweor
rests on the plea for imports. Pre-war velumes of pesse-
ful civilian consamption are nos to be constsmed me
conasituting

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.96)
-18
eenstituting requirements.
2. Disease rates, independently verified, shsmld
be used as the most reliable indication of the adequasy
of living conditions in terms of danger to the osompying
forces and the objeetives of the occupation.
3. In the absenee of a pronouneed inerease in
disease rates, a state of physieal hardship should mot
for the present be construed as endangering the ceeupying
foroes or the objeotives of the ocgupation.
4. Gratuitous distributions to oivilians by the
armed foroes should not be made, except in eases of
oleer and urgent military necessity.
5. At the outset, the calorie content of a diet
adequate to prevent starvation should be considered to
be 1200 average; to prevent d1sease and unrest - 1600
average. Variations may be made according to age or
work required. It is preferable to begin low and to
increase as ciroumatances clearly permit rather than risk
failure to maintain a standard once established.
6. Widespread publicity should be given to the
general policy of the Supreme Commander, that:
"You assume no obligatione to maintain,
or have maintained, any partieular atandard
of living in Japan; and that the standard
of living will depend upon the thoroughness
with which Japan redirects the use of its
human and natural resources wholly and solely
for purposes of peaoeful living, administers
adequate economio and financial controls,
and coop rates with the occupying forces and
the governmente they represent."
7. Dispersion of people from food deficit areas
to food surplus areae should be indmeed or prolonged.
exeeptions being made for people with needed special skills.
8. Because

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.90)
-10
8. Besause in all probability the curramey wáll
command diminishing comridence, spesial at temtion steale
be given to providing inoentive goods to induee farmars
and others to move their produee to market. Such gesds
should, if possible, be or domestio crigin.

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.96)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
Office Memorandum
ONFFED
TO
: ITP - Mr. Vilcox
JUL 1 0 1945
DATE: July 7, 1945
WK
1,
FROM : LA - Mr. Kahn
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SUBJECT:
Draft of Paper on Policy vith Respect to Relief (Japan)
The atteched draft of the paper was prepared
pursuant to a request dated May 28, from AC - Mr. Martin
to ITP - Mr. Haley and LA - Mr Merc ant. Mr. Merchant
responded to Mr. Haley and Mr. Martan under date of
June 4, neming me for the assignment.
Mr. Martin and I have gone over earlier drafts
together, before Mr. Schaetzel of your office telephoned
to express your interest in having them pass through
your office. The present draft has therefore the
benefit of Mr. Martin's collaboration. The drafting is
looge, and the paper somewhat repetitive; before trying
to put it into final form it seemed ivisable to wait
until the arprocch and the content vere anroved.
LA: WBKahn:md

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
July 7, 1945.
Policy with Respect to Relief (Japan)
THE PROBLEM
1. To determine the policies with respect to relief
which should be followed by the United States military
government of Japan, including the level of subsistence to
be maintained, and the measures to be taken to secure and
distribute needed supplies.
FACTS BEARING CN THE PROBLEM
1. S NCc 107, aporoved by the State-War-Navy Coordi-
nating Comaittee on
1945, and transmitted to the
Department of State by the SWicc Secretariat on
1945,
requests that the Department of State prepare a draft paper
on the above subject for submission to the SWNCC Secretary.
2. SiNCC 150, paragraph A II provides that:
"All instrumentalities which participate in the formu-
lation or consiceration of national policies shall be
suspended, pending the cheivement of the objectives
of military government, and their functions shall be
assumed by milit ry government."
3. In S.NCC 150, paragranh C II it is provided that
United States military government of Japan in the initial
post-defeat period shall -
"In or er to meet the needs of the occupation forces
and to prevent starvation and such diseese end civil
unrest s voul interfere with the operations of
military government, ... take such steps as may be
necessary vith respect to (a) essential national
public services; (b) inance and banking; (c) pro-
duction and distribution of essential commodities;
and (a) exports and imports."
4. S'Ncc 150 provides in paragraph B II that -
"The immediate objective of military government in
Japan shall be the strict enforcement of the terms
imposed

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
-2-
imposed on Japan. Within such framework, the general
political objectives of the military government are:
"3. The encouragement of liberal political elements
and the crestion of conditions in Japan which
will facilitate the emergence of a government
with which the United Nations can deal."
5. Paragraph C II of SWNCC 150, provides that:
"No stens shall be taken by the military government
which would raise the standard of living of the
Jananese people to a standard out of line with that
of neighboring peoples."
6. SWNCC 150, paragranh B, III, 3 provides that:
"Military government should utilize the Japanese admini-
strative machinery, and so far as practicable, Japanese
public o ficials, making these officials responsible
for the carrying out of the nolicies and directives of
the military movernment .....
The adinistration of
affairs in Janan should be directed toward the develop-
ment of local responsibility."
7. Paragraph C ITI of S'NCC 15o provides that -
"The first charge on the proceeds of all approved
exports, for reparations or otherwise, shall be a sum

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-3-
DISCUSSION
1. Not enough is kno'n about United States interests
in or policy toward the parts of the Japanese Empire which
are to be separated from Japan to permit an adequate dis-
cussion of military government policy on relief in those
areas.
Therefore t! is paper has been confined to the problems
of the military government of the main islands of Japan.
?. Period of time to which discussion applies.
This discussion is with reference to the period begin-
ning shortly after the end of hostilities end extending for
three to six months.
As long as hostilities last, the accomplishment of the
military mission takes precedence over all other considera-
tions, and the military authorities will conduct civilian
supply onerations as best suits, in their opinion, the accom-
plishment of their mission. The prevention of disease and
unrest ill
1 enter into their calculations as only one of the
factors in their operations; once hostilities have ended,
civilian supply operations may be accorded higher priority.
The period of six months after the end of hostilities
is chosen arbitrarily as a period long enough to permit
military government to survey the circumstances with whicn
it must deel.
These circumstances cannot be known here or
now.
The eventual policies adopted will have to be suitable
to those

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-4-
to those circumstances.
The uncertainties may be summarized as follows:
A) Response of population.
1) The population may be submissive, or it may
be, irrespective of supplies, actively
hostile.
2) Government employees may be cooperative, or
obstructive, or refuse to function at all.
B) Extent of further destruction.
The ability of the
Japanese to provide for themselves will be much influenced
by the st te of therr equipment for production and distribu-
tion.
c) ih t amounts of food, clothing and other supplies
may still exist in stockpiles.
D) Depending lergely on (A) above, the duration of
military government is still to be determined, and its scope
and purposes will be much influenced by conditions as they
are found and as they develop. The longer MG lasts, or the
more it undertakes in the way of establishing economic as
well as political order, the more imported supplies will be
needed. Particularly is this the case if MG undertakes to
promote production for export, as reparations, or undertakes
long range reforms. In the absence of a determination of the
duration scope and purposes of MG in the light of circumstances
in Japan as they are found, only short range conclusions can
be rerched.

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
-5-
3. Definition of Relief. The purposes of relief are
a) to prevent starvation and b) such disease and civil unrest
as woulc interfere with the operations of MG. Relief may be
defined as the provision of imported sunnlies to achieve
these purposes. Such supplies might be for immediate con-
sumption or miht be ecuipment and other supplies to
increuse Japonese production to a 1 vel adequate to meet the
ourpores of relief.
The e uipment most probably of immediate urgency to meet
these purposes is transportation equinment and supplies
necersary thereto. Other equipment or supplies looking to
ultim te increased domestic production, such as fertilizer,
might be considered on efficient form of relief, but only if
the responsibilities of Mg extend over  considerable period
of time. In gener 1, for the purnoses of the relatively
short perioc under consi erstion, it is to be expected that,
excent for transportation equipment, imported relief supplies
vill be, for most part, for direct c nsumption.
Hovever, the purposes of relief should be achieved as
far as possible vithout the importation of relief supplies,
through the use of domestically procuced surplies.
The
effort of
MG in th is cirection should be to encourage
domestic production and equitable distribution, through every
means at its command, includin reouisitioning and gratuitous
distribution

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
SECRET
distribution where neceesary. Such gratuitous distributions
are frequently called relief, and might in these discussions
be called 'individual relief' to distinguish such operations,
which are required because of disorganization and personal
impecuniosity, from the operations of importing supplies
which are required because of a national shortage which
exists without reference to internel distribution or posses-
sion of the local currency.
4. Four separate nurposes are distinguishable in the
management of Japanese economic affairs: First, protection
of the troops in the accomplishment of their mission, through
the prevention of disease and unrest; Second, humanitarian
unwillingnees to stand idly by where there is starvation;
Third, the use of Japan as a productive mechanism n order to
obtain materials needed there or elsewhere. Ultimately, to
provide a sound economic basis for the establishment of law
and order, and of an cceptable Japanese civil government.
Although these puposes are distinguishable in theory, from
an operating or edministrative standpoint they are not clearly
separable. Cnly the first two come vithin the scope of
relief.
The third and ultimate curposes should not be con-
sidered within the scope of relief, although supplies fur-
nished with such purposes in mind would, in fact, serve the
nurvoses of relief.
Contrariwise, steps taken pursuant to
the purposes of relief, will often result in important aid
to the Japanese

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
並7一
to the Jepanese people beyond the purposes of relief. For
example a railrond bridge repaired to permit the transporta-
tion of food, will also be able to carry trains whose move-
ment is important to Japanese reconstruction.
5. What diet will a) prevent starvation b) prevent
disease end civil unrest.
The adequacy of a diet to the above purposes depends
upon various circumstances - adequacy of shelter and cloth-
ing, the amount of activity reruired of the individual, diet
habit, as vell as the composition of the diet.
If the criterion of the diet is only its effect upon
the operations of military government, then it is necessary
to know the scope and duration of military government. If
military govennment continues for a long time and operates
extensively throughout the main islands, and undertakes long
range reorganizations reforms and reconstruction, it is clear
that something more than a minimum life-sustaining diet must
be proviced, either from local production solely or su ple-
mented by imports. If, on the other extreme, we occupy
only a few creas as bases, from Which expeditionary forays
of armed vehicles take place for the rapid destruction of
some installations, and if the whole operation takes only a
few months, a generally inaecuate diet would probably con-
stitute no interference with the operations of military
rovernment. If the o cup&tion is protracted in time and
extensive

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-8
extensive in area, subsistence at 1500-1700 calories would
probably need to be maintained, and adequate variety to
balance it be provided. The average pre-war per capita
diet was about 2230 calories.
The maximum average set for Germany is 1500. Accord-
ing to UNRRA studies, Chinese production probably exceeds
?500 calories average per capita, but it is not well
balanced.
In terms of calories, it is believed that about 1200
calories, as average for a whole population, is adeguate
to prevent starvation. At this level there would be sus-
ceptibility to isesse but not starvation.
Japanese domestic production during recent years has
aver ged something better than 17oo calories. War damage
might reduce production somewhat, but more important
difficulties are the probable damage to mills, difficulty
of transportation end difficulty of actual procurement.
The 17 0 calories, more or less, evailable from
normal production was short of oils and proteins. To
maintain a diet satisfactory over a longer period would
recuire increase of the fish catch and probably imports
up to 500, 000 tons of soybeans.
6. Possible inconsistency of principles lsid down.
In statements of purposes or guiding principles vith respect
to Japan, it appears that some may prove incompatible
with

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-9
with others.
This should be recognized. As an example, it
is set forth - not as clearly as might be - that the Japanese
standard of living shall not exceed that of neighboring
peoples. What does MG do then if - to prevent disease and
civil unrest - it is necessary, in their opinion, to raise
the Japanese standard of living above that of neighboring
peoples? Or, it is proposed thet allied and friendly coun-
tries have priority over scarce supplies - soybeans, sugar,
transportation equipment, textiles. Suppose, which is
likely, that the maintenance of order in Japan requires
transportation equipment that the Chinese too require. Or
that rice is not obtainable from Japanese farmers for
distribution in the cities without the use of incentive
goods such as sugar or textiles w ich are everywhere short.
During hostilities military nurnoses clearly come first; but
after hostilities, NG vill need to have some order of
priority established for the principles which may proVe in-
consistent with each other in the circumstances as they
develop.
During the post-hostilities period under reference it
is recoimended, partly for domestic political reasons, that
the ruling rineiples shall be that the standard of living
of allied and friendly liberated peoples is to exceed that
of the Jananese on the average, and that Japanese requirements
that are

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-10-
that are in short supply shall be junior in priority to all
other recuirements.
7. Measures to be taken to secure and distribute needed
supplies.
A. Primary responsibility for securing and distributing
neeccd supp'ies should rest on the Japanese themselves.
When the main islands can be dealt with as a whole,
local supplies should be adequate in amount to prevent starva-
tion, if the sunpliec can be procured snd moved from where
they are to where they are needed. It is probable that trans-
portation facilities and possibly salt will have to be
provided.
To prevent disease and unrest, domestic supplies should
be adecuete for a few months at least, with such supplement
as conditions may indicate.
B. If there is a government or a civil service capable
of functioning, it must be supported by MG in its effort to
secure and distribute supplies end the following steps seem
appropriate:
1) Public announcement - reneated and clear - that the
Jaoanese must live on their own resources, and cannot count
upon imports;
2) Whatever support cn reasonably be given to the
government's efforts to continue rationing and price control
of essential

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-11-
of essential goods; to protect against looting; to repair
transportation facilities; to collect food from farmers,
charcoal from producere, and to procure by recuisition,
purchase, barter, or otherwise, other needed supplies where-
ever they may be found; to prolong or induce dispersion of
people from deficit areas to surplus areas; to finance
individual relief; to induce the people to work, by appro-
priate methods, and pursuade them that they will have to
provide for themselves.
3. Because the currency is likely to have become al-
most worthless, some trade or incentive goods may have to
be o fered to farmers and others for their produce. Such
goods should, if possible, be of domestic origin. It is
likely that sugar, selt, oil, or other commodities of
forelgn origin may be re uired in some cuantity. To what
extent these shoulc be provided by MG cannot be decided
except by MG accordingly as circumstances anpear at the time.
C. If there is not a government or civil service
copable of functioning, MG vill have to import supplies for
the deficit areas, unless it cun force migration to the
surplus areas. Otherwise it will have to abandon some of
the principles and nurposes of the occupation, or abandon
the occunation.

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-12
8. Survey of Minimal Probable Reguirements.
It would be desirable to be able to present some
estimate in tonnage and value of the supplies it may prove
necessary to send to Japan a) to prevent starvation or b) to
prevent such disease and civil unrest as would interfere with
the operations of military government.
Clearly the ability of the Japanese to provide for
themeelves will depend to a large extent (apart from the
attitude of the people and the civil service) upon two factors
wich cannot be ascertained here or at this time - the stocks
of supplies they will have on hand, and the nature and extent
of the destruction of facilities that will take place.
As to stervation, however, it e ems unlikely that crops
and stocks of food could be destroyed to an extent such that
sufficient
to prevent starvation. The only indispensible item of diet
that might be missing vould be salt, of which about fifty
thousand tons (annual basis) may he necessary to import.
The
cost per ton is low.
Transportetion is more likely to be
lacking than food sunplies end it is to be anticipated that
considerable transport will heve to be provided. How much
cannot be estim ted now. Otherwise the prevention of starva-
tion is not likely to require imnorted supplies. It will
however, require supervision and probably intervention in
or direction of

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-13
or direction of the distributive process.
The prevention of "such disease and civil unrest as
would interfere with the operations of military government"
presents greater requirements but not necessarily imports
except salt nc means'of transportation. Food - up to 17o0
calories daily average, charcoal for fuel, end medical sup-
plies, ere ordinarily suficiently available from domestic
The National Housing Administration (Urban Develop-
sources.
ment Division) study on Emerrency Shelter in Japan concludes
that provision of emergency shelter facilities by MG should
not be necessary, though MG may find it necessary to coordi-
nate the activities of the usual civilian agencies. This
conclusion seems to me somewhat questionable, if destruction
proceeds as advertised; how much needs to be done will depend
Iso upcn the duration of our responsibility.
This "disease and unrest" formula is, however, an
elastic one. Provisions that would adequately prevent disease
and unrest over a three months period might well prove inade-
quate over a longer period. This is particularly true if
existing stocks are used up during the early period.
In a dition to transportation and salt, the primary
neecs over  longer period vpuld probably include:
a) Fertilizer. Hefore the war Janan imported over a
million tons e year, mostly of phosphate materiel but, in
some years,

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
-14-
some years, as much es 300,00 tons of ammonium sulphate.
The value was something over S20,000,000. Some proportion
of the usual imports ill, eventually, prove necessary to sus-
tain omestic food production.
b) Clothing. The Japs are now using various grasses and
low grade woodpulp - base artificial fibres. They have probably
also been mixing in their silk. Military stocks of cloth may
be high, ut civilians have been receiving only a small pro-
portion or cheir usual textiles.
Normally about one-third of the textile industry
produced enough for peace time domestic purposes. The machinery
nee ed to convert raw fibres into a "disesse and unrest"
textile capocity would plmost certainly be evailable - per-
haps by cannibalization - even after severe destruction.
Something of the order of 200, o00 bales of cotton (worth about
$25,000,000) and about 10, 000,000 vorth of raw woo1 should
be fully adecuate.
c) Sugar. Perheps a useful incentive stuff. In 1936
and 1937 the Japs imp rted about 200,000 tons, worth about
$6,O00,000 at the time (excluding takings from Formosa).
This
is something over 5 pounds per capita per year.
d) Other m terials - Paper, rubber, lesther, soybeans
and cther cil seeds mey also prove cesirable, for incentive
purposes, but, by a strict interpretation of "disease and unrest",
it is not

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
-15-
it is not clear that they will be needed.
e) Restoration of facilities.
There is likely to be
isease end unrest in the cities unless the services are re-
stored - particulorly water and sewage disposal. It will
be ifficult to send provisions to the cities unless the
railroas and highvsys - bridges, turnels and such structures
are restored. The Japs themselves should be encouraged to
untertake t is work; for us to uncertake it seems likely to
prove beyond the scope of relief, in terms of cost, tonnage
required end competing superior demands of allies for the
materials.
Considering the difficulties of establishing sanitary
conditions in the cities and of transporting food to them, a
movement of people from thc cities to egricultural districts
should be encoureged. It will probably be wise to provide
minor parts end suvplies to facilitate local production
adequate to the disease and unrest standard, as an example -
fuel for the fishing fleet.

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
-16-
CONCLUSIONS
1. Importation of supplies should be avoided, unless
accomplishment of purposes clearly requires imported sup-
plies. The MG function with respect to relief should, if
possible, be restricted to a suring equitable distribution
of supplies produced in Japan.
2. The primary responsibility of providing supplies
to the popul tion shall rest unon the Jananese themselves.
As corroll ry to tis principle, a) this fact should be
iven the widest and most insistent publicity throughout the
country. b) A urance should be given that MG encourages
maximum comestic production, which will be allowed for
civilian use up to the established standard, and
c) MG vill insist upon equitable distribution, and to that
end, will uphold rationing and price control of essential
commodities, and other aupropriate measures.
3. The everage diet of the Japanese shell not exceed
thet of any allied or liberated friendly country.
Tentatively, the caloric content to prevent starvation
mav be set at 1200 average; to prevent d1sease and unrest
at 1500 average.
Variations are to be made ac-ording to age and accord-
ino to ork reguired.
It is preferalle to begin low and to increase as
circumstances

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
-17-
circumstances clearly permit rather than risk failure to
maintain standard established.
4. The objectives of military government after the
end of rostilities do not justify over-riding the principle
that the standard of living of allied and friendly liberated
people shall be above that of the Japanese, or the principle
that Japanese recuirements of supplies which are short are
junior in oriority to re uirements of other and friendly
liberated countries.
t. MG shoula attennt to bring about or prolong the
dispersion of the populetion of the larger towns to the
agricultural areas.
6. Relief sumplies should be provided by the army,
for seversl months efter the cessation of hostilities, out
of the ermy anronriations.
After it becomes practic ble to
chonge over from wake of battle operations to occupation,
the cost of imports becomes a first ch rge on the proceeds
of exports.
7.
Curvey should be mace of the ability of the
Japanese to
take core of their own minimum requirements over
a period of several years, so that if military government is
extended beyond 6 months it will be pren-red to take such
relief measures as may be required in accorde ce vith the
principles set forth above, vith speciel emphasis on helping
the Jananese themeelves to produce what they need.
LA: /BKahn: md

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.98)
LA - Mr. Kahn
July 23, 1945.
ITP - Mr. Wilcox
I have read your memorandum of February 12 on
policy with respect to the occupation of Japan and
your momorandum of July 7 on relief. The former is
Identical with the view that I have been expressing
on the subject; the latter is a good starter on a
problen that will be oxtremely difficult.
ITP:CWilcox:IEL

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.90)
Sunday
ED
Hotel Great Northern
TELEPHONE CIRCLE 7-1900
OWNED AND OPERATED BY
EXECUTIVE OFFICES
JACK DEMPSEY'S PUNCH BOWL,INC.
Dear Mr. President:
mMy
2t haotee
kmo to undu sland
and godre since ym cocending
to the Presifeney
What I am gringt tig
the
Dom to tiyland tung fhers thoight
594,50
into a Npmoccatif
00T171945
SEP 2 0 1945
pou 1940
PLAN TO VISIT
JACK DEMPSEY'S
BROADWAY RESTAURANT AND BAR
Division of forcien
49THSTREET AND BROADWAY

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.88)
2.
Hotel Great Northern
118 WEST 57TH ST.
TELEPHONE CIRCLE 7-1900
OWNED AND OPERATED BY
EXECUTIVE OFFICES
JACK DEMPSEY'S PUNCH BOWL,INC.
nuitue the J ap aneae ints a state
4 thinhing thathive as a Katiin ace
I aing to tplecate any moreo that
the frimirg of omall grmpoopmening
pirgramotth undu-zinethe strit
Iteirro laid doun by this bweinment.
20 my mind we mnnt stait a
Equeattinal Prrg ran that wiel rake
the Masse of apanese Prrple malje
that we as a Wattin ace willing and
Aut then run lukyo rita mm-
miclita.
and d firg cam to affer, dswhich
thi
afmelens
PLAN TOVISIT
JACK DEMPSEY'S
BROADWAY RESTAURANT AND BAR
49TH STREET AND BROADWAY

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.85)
3
Hotel Great Northern
NEW YORK I9,N.Y.
OWNED AND OPERATED BY
JACK DEMPSEY'S PUNCH BOWL,INC.
EXECUTIVE OFFICES
Shis, pirqearn ea he I feterrl
wnkld-mt satiofaitorily withmy
ascocrats.
I apa as gm kum ohmld he
tictly an! lg rarian Kotim me which
willally it tohe self-ousforting
and in this progran kmldthe maske
to pay what ever I demiitis we
skeldaok.
My asroiiate ha worbed fw thepact
y Multeny she have euetegkd ohdel
weave a edlred silk-theced.
Im ithey guords ifnse wanta Red
me tind the Wg the Dype of
theikrig
sith. Job my way of
this is a Brckness the J ap aneak
PLAN TO VISIT
JACK DEMPSEY'S
49THSTREET AND BROADWAY

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.90)
4
Hotel Great Northern
118 WEST 57TH ST.
TELEPHONE CIRCLE 7-1900
OWNED AND OPERATED BY
EXECUTIVE OFFICES
ea do ao my aoosistecando.
JACK DEMPSEY'S PUNCH BOWL,INC.
I Peliare Mul Proident thata
mu-belrep in the g tod- wilef ocspe of
I alo beliens that a
the sick. lligh of the
child he in this fpgrg ca po aorgothe
create tro muth eaith fr the
J apanere.
Konas, lity, it almrel olipped mey
PLAN TO VISIT
JACK DEMPSEY'S
BROADWAY RESTAURANT AND BAR
49THSTREET AND BROADWAY

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.85)
K
Jack Du
Rotel Great Northern
118 WEST 57TH ST.
NEW YORK 19,N.Y.
TELEPHONE CIRCLE 7-1900
OWNED AND OPERATED BY
EXECUTIVE OFFICES
was there aloo Majn grodwi; that
JACK DEMPSEY'S PUNCH BOWL,INC.
surs was a fn yeadago.
Mr. Pridint will y plaeletime
Kunw ym re-actinl tothio idia ao
May ym heacth te aogrodas itis
mm drdy mn quidans he ao
Sprntualoyne qualilie.
Dinicerily
1tm.
S. a. Andedom
Hany 0. Juma
site629-630
White. Hmas
118
lvanieAup.
n.3.
1600 Pinney
Wach. D.S.
PLAN TO VISIT
JACK DEMPSEY'S
BROADWAY RESTAURANT AND BAR
49THSTREET AND BROADWAY

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.97)
245
In reply refer to
PL
My dear Mr. Anderson:
I have received, by reference from the White House,
your recent letter in which you transmit a suggestiom
for the rehabilitation of Japan.
The spirit which prompted you to submit your
proposal is deeply appreciated. Thank you for your
courtesy in making it available.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
20
J. M. Colton Hand
Chief, Public Views and
Inquiries Section
Division of Public Liaison
Mr. E. A. Anderson,
suite 629-630,
Hotel Great Northern,
118 West Fifty-seventh Street,
New York 19, New York.
OC
10/21/.45
PL:GR:MVTrent1mwh
