894.20246L Military Affairs. Army. Army Posts. Fortifications. Defenses. Military Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., Military Activities Of Japan In Papua New Guinea Including Gathering Of Information. Espionage. Propaganda (File 1490)
ID: 894.20246L-1490   Pages: 4   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.20246l-military-affairs-army
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.98)
AUG 23 1945
CS/LE
AUG 23 1945

THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
Sydney, Australia, July 11, 1945.

SUBJECT: Reported Activities of Joe HOFSTETTER, alias Timothy
SPUR.

The Consulate General has the honor to enclose, as of possible
interest to the Department, a copy of a letter which it received
from one Timothy Spot on December 9, 1941. It will be noted
that the writer of this letter claimed to be an American citizen
by naturalization and requested the Consulate General to issue
him a passport in order that he might proceed to Manila "to enlist
in the U.S. Navy".

As the letter in question was received only two days after
"Pearl Harbor", and as it was apparent from the beginning that
the writer of the letter would not be able to proceed to Manila,
but would in all probability either be drafted into the Australian
military forces in New Guinea or be evacuated to the Australian
mainland, no reply was made to his request for a passport, but his
name was included in the list of American nationals known to be
residing in New Guinea. This led some time later to the inter-
acting disclosure that Hofstetter, whose photograph had been re-
cognized in this office by a former employer from New Guinea, was
suspected of having gone over to the Japanese military forces in
New Guinea. The former employer who recognized Hofstetter was
Mr. F. W. R. Godden, General Manager of the Bulolo Gold Dredging
Company Limited, with head office in Sydney and plant at Wau,
Territory of New Guinea. Mr. Godden has spent the last two years
or more in Melbourne, where he has had occasion to meet various
former New Guinea acquaintances, and upon his return to Sydney
this week he called again at the Consulate General and stated that
he had certain further information concerning Hofstetter which he
believed might be of interest to the American authorities.
Briefly, this information was that one of the former New Guinea
acquaintances with whom Mr. Godden had discussed Hofstetter had
informed Mr. Godden that shortly after the successful defense of
Wau by the Australian military forces, a map had been found upon
the body of a Japanese officer, and that on this map there was an
inscription indicating that the document had been compiled from
data which had been supplied "by the Swiss engineer Hofstetter".
The map, it is understood, outlined a secret trail over which
the Japanese had launched their attack upon Wau -- a trail which
had been used by a German survey group when the territory was in
German hands, but which apparently was not known to the Australian
residents of Wau.

Mr. Godden has been requested to ascertain from his infer-
ment whether the map in question was preserved by the Australian

DCR - EUR Unit
Anal
Rev
Cat
JUL 30
894.20246L/7-1145
CS/LE

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-

military authorities, and if it appears that the document may still be in existence, an effort will be made to borrow it for the Department's inspection.

Enclosure: Copy of letter from Joe Hofstetter, alias Timothy Spot.

Original to the Department, with ozalid copy.

File No. 820.02
CHD:lph.

CD

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 1945 from the American Consulate General, Sydney, Australia, dated July 11, 1945, and entitled "Reported Activities of Joe Hofstetter, alias Timothy Spot".

Bulolo Territory of New Guinea.
11.29.1941.

The Consulate General of the United States of America.

Dear Sirs:

I Timothy Spot born in Switzerland naturalized citizen of the United States of America possessing Certificate of Naturalization No. 2775692 Petition Volume 89 Number 13911 issued by the U.S. District Court, Northern District of California at San Francisco dated 9th of June 1928 having read the Presidents State of Emergency Declaration do hereby solemnly beg the honorable Consulate to issue me a Passport or other travel paper to enable me to proceed to Manila P.I. to enlist in the U.S. Navy. I am an Exservice Coast Guard having served on U.S.S. Manhattan C.G. U.S.S. Lexington C.G. U.S.S. Alexander Hamilton C.G. and in the U.S. Coast Guard Academy New London Conn. also on U.S.S. Shawnee C.G. while serving on her I have been naturalized and honorably discharged.

I also possess a second Assistant Engineers (unlimited) License issued by U.S. Department of Commerce at San Francisco California dated 6th January 1932 and signed by John Bolger U.S. Supervising Inspector 1st District.

Furthermore I Timothy Spot do hereby solemnly swear and declare that I have not been naturalized in a foreign State or taken the Oath of allegiance to a foreign State or married a foreigner or made formal renunciation of American citizenship before an appropriate Court or entered or served in the armed forces of a foreign state or accepted or performed the duties of any office, post or employment of a foreign State or political subdivision thereof for which only nationals of such State are eligible or voted in a political election or plebiscite to determine the sovereignty over foreign territory nor do I intend to travel with a passport of a foreign state as a national thereof.

(Sgd.) Timothy Spot.

(Sgd.) J. W. Mitchell.

Praying that requested passport or travel paper may be granted and swearing that above is true and correct in every detail and sworn before our local Justice of the peace

I remain yours obediently,

(Sgd.) Timothy Spot.

Signed before me at Bulolo this 29th day of November, 1941.

(Sgd.) J. W. Mitchell

A Commissioner for Affidavits by the within-named Timothy Spot, who is known to me as "Joe Hofstetter".

A personal description and particulars are
Born at St. Gall Canton St. Gall Switzerland April eight 1895
Age 46 height 5 feet 8 inches color white complexion fair
Color of eyes blue color of hair brown visible distinguishing marks
scar on upper lip
Not married and no children
I am close three photos and three specimen signatures

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.92)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON

In reply refer to
FC 894.20246L/7-1145

August 8, 1945

The Department of State transmits to the following
the attached information in the hope that it will be of
value:
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Office of Naval Intelligence
✓ Federal Bureau of Investigation
✓ Office of Strategic Services

Enclosure:
Copy of despatch No. 1945 from Sydney, Australia,
dated July 11, 1945, subject: "Reported Activities
of Joe HOFSTETTER, alias Timothy SPOT".

894.20246L/7-1145 CS/LE
894.20246L/7-1145
Confidential File

A true copy of
the signed original
csa

in C.
FC: CPE: CMM
