894.00B Japan, Bolshevism. Communism. Communistic Activities. Subversive Activities., February 10, 1930 - October 8, 1936 (File 932)
ID: 894.00B-932   Pages: 188   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.00b-japan-bolshevism-communism-5
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.94)
PM RECU
EMBASSY OF THE
FE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, February lo 1930.
No. 27.
O1
FEB2 530
RATER EUHUPEAN AFFAIRS
RPM
FE8 26 1930
TP-6rof
DEPARTMENT OPSTATF
0
Division of
Q
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
LAR 13 1930
3
5
Department of State
FOR DISTRIBUTION - CHECK
Y
No
To +he
151930
The Honoruble
The pecretur: or stute,
Washington.
Sir:
I huve the honer to ucknowled e the receipt of the
Departinent's instruction No. 671, duted January 18, 1930
(File No. 894. OB/31), requesting information with regard
to the extent to vhich the discussions referred to in
the Embussy's despatch No. 1192 of June 5, 1929 were
reproduced in the Japanese press.
The Embassy has been unable to find in the vernaoular
papers any reference to the discussions regarding Russo-
Japanese

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.93)
-2-
Japanese relations which occurred in committee.
I an, Sir,
aell
W.Rter

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.93)
ÉMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, Japan, May 5, 1930.
No. 122
DI VIstor OF
MAY 2410
ws   610
DEPARTMENT OF SA
894.00
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
5 1930
Dreoartment of State
3
161
NO'
FOR DISTRIBUTION- CHTK
71
To the Fiela
Hi US.
The Honorable
7=1990
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to report that thirty-five of the
alleged Japanese communists arrested in the police raids
of Maroh 15, 1928, and of April 15, 1929, were "found
guilty" in the so-called preliminary court on April 28,
1930, and will be brought to publio trial. To be found
guilty in a preliminary court, a step in legal procedure
for which

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
for which there is no exact American equivalent, signifies
that "preliminary judges", or "juges d'instruotion", after
investigation, whioh is carried on in secret and without
lawyers, are convinced that the defendants are guilty and
should be arraigned in a court of first instance for publio
trial.
The arrests referred to followed the finding of
evidence by the police that a communist party had been
secretly organized in Japan in December, 1926, and was
plotting to overthrow the Government.
The affair was re-
14.005
1o
ported in detail in the Embassy's despatohes No. 821 of
33
April 11, 1928, and No. 1334 of November 18, 1929.
The thirty-five men "found guilty" and committed for
public trial are apparently but a very small part of
those arrested within the Tokyo distriot in this affair.
(The total number of those arrested throughout the
country is said to have been more than two thousand, many
of whom have already been brought to trial.)
The others
in the Tokyo district have apparently been released, after
investigation, for lack of evidence. Interest in the af-
fair now centres upon this small group of men. Two others
were also "found guilty" at the same time, but they are
now deceased.
One of these men, Gaku Sano, will be tried under the
Amended Peace Preservation Act of 1928, by whioh "those
organizing associations with a view to changing the funda-
mental national struoture, or those acting as officials in
suoh associations, or as leaders" may be punished by
death or penal servitude for life.*
Sano will be the
first
894.04417
3
* Despatoh No. 895 of July 2, 1928.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
first person to be tried under the amended act.
The
others will be tried under the former provisions of the
act, by which the maximum penalty is imprisonment for
ten years. This man is apparently regarded as the chief
offender because, together with Masanosuke Watanabe, who
committed suicide after murdering a policeman, he is be-
lieved to be the person through whom finanoial aid from
Soviet communists was obtained, in addition to his having
been, again together with Watanabe, the leading promoter
of the plot.
Were Watanabe still living, there is little
doubt that he, too, would be tried with Sano under the
amended aot.
In the opinion of well-informed persons it
would seem that Sano may very possibly suffer the death
penalty.
The question of complicity of Soviet Russians and of
the Soviet Government in the Japanese communist moyément
89400831
was dealt with in the Embassy's despatoh No. 1192 of
June 5, 1929.
In this despatch was reported a statement
of a member of the committee of the Lower House, formed
to consider the Imperial Ordinance revising the Peace
Preservation Law, which "showed very clearly that evidence
of Russian complioity in the bolshevik movement in Japan
had been found!.
With respect to the position of the
Soviet Government in this respeot, Baron Tanaka, prime
minister at that time, in reply to the statement said that
he had "cautioned the Russian Government either directly to
the Russian Ambassador in Tokyo or through the Japanese
Ambassador in Mosoow" and had even made "an urgent request".
The Embassy's despatoh conoluded with the following state-
ment: "The reason that the Japanese Government has not
officially protested is, I venture to believe, that no
evidence

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
evidence proving Russia's violation in a literal sense
of Artiole V of the basic convention of 1925 has been
found. So far as I could learn, the Japanese Government
is unable to prove that the Soviet Government has tacitly
permitted the Third International to engage in subversive
activities against Japan; that it is furnishing the Third
International with funds to carry on these activities, or
that it is conniving at the work of the Third International.
The Japanese Government is morally certain of these facts,
but it is quite evidently its intention not to resort to
formal and official measures until it gains possession
of conolusive proof." As far as I am aware, the situation
outlined above has not altered since that time.
Among the thirty-five men to be brought to trial
there are, in addition to Sano, some of the most important
leaders of Japanese communists. The following seven are
perhaps the most significant:
Gaku Sano, aged 39, wealthy, of good family, a
brother of the son-in-law of the late Count Shimpei
Goto. He was formerly a professor at Waseda University,
one of the foremost universities in Japan, and a writer.
Kazuo Fukumoto, aged 37, originator of "Fukamotoiam
(or "Fragmentarism"), his especial brand of communim
which was very influential among Japanese communists
until the end of 1927. He comes from a well-to-do farm-
ing family. He began as an offioial of the Department
of Home Affairs and later became a professor at a higher
commeroial sohool. His radical ideas he seems to have
imbibed during a three-year sojourn in Germany.
Katsuzo Arahata, aged 44, a well-known writer of
criticisms of Marr and a translator of his works. Ho is
a graduate of Waseda University and first became known
through his very good translation into Japanese of Sidney
Webb's History of Trade Unions. Although he himselr is
not wealthy, his sister is well-to-do and is a teacher
in a reputable girls' sohool in Tokyo.
Fumio Sano, aged 39, a graduate of the Imperial
University of Tokyo, and a writer of oriticisms of Marx's
theories.
Kyoji Kopseda, aged 27, a member of the Ereoutive
Committee of the Japan Labor Unions' Counoil He was
graduated

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.97)
- 5 -
graduated from the Imperial University of Tokyo,
after which he worked in the University Settlement
of that instution until he became a newspaper
writer. He comes from a good family.
Kyuichi Tokuda, aged 37, a Tokyo lawyer.
Masao Nishi, aged 35, a writer and a popular
figure among socialists. At one time he published
a monthly review and translated works of Marx.
Of the thirty-five men, eleven are still in their
twenties, while the average age is thirty-two. Among
the twenty-eight not commented upon above, eleven are
writers while the rest are workers of one sort or
another. Seven are former or present members of the
Japan Labor Union Council, five of them belonging to
the Executive Committee, while two simultaneously are
members of the Executive Committee of the Metal Workers'
Union. The Japan Labor Union Council is a labor organi-
zation which I am reliably informed is communistic, al-
though to preserve its existence it presents to the
authorities a less radical aspect.
As the Embassy has reported in the past, it is im-
possible to arrive at any estimate of the number of com-
munists in Japan or of their activities. It is oertain,
however, that the arrest of the men now awaiting trial
has not put a stop to communist aotivities. The Embassy
has very recently learned from official souroes that in
February of this year a communist affair ocourred of un-
precedented gravity in Japan. This affair has been
placed under striot press censorship,so that the Imbassy
8ttttt1y
is not yet in a position to submit details. The matter
will be followed, however, with as muoh attention as the
seoreoy shrouding the affair permits and further informa-
tion

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
- 6-
tion will be reported at a subsequent date.
▲ summary of the text of the judgment prepared by
preliminary judges, said to be 265 pages in length, was
published in the press on April 29th. Although the
history of the communist movement in Japan as desoribed
therein is substantially the same as the Embassy reported
in its despatoh No. 821 of April 11, 1928, a brief review
of this most recent description of the movement, which
inoludes some new details, may be of interest.
The first Japanese Communist Party, according to
this report, was formally inaugurated in July, 1922,
and was recognized as a branoh of the Third International.
In attempting propaganda, however, its members were arrested
in June, 1923.
. This and the great earthquake and fire
of September 1, 1923, were a serious setback to the
movement. (The earthquake is possibly so regarded beoause
a number of those in prison at that time were said to have
been murdered in the subsequent exoitement. In faot one
of the men now awaiting trial, Seihachi Karazawa, is said,
on good authority, to have become a communist only because
his brother was among those thus done away with by police.)
Early in 1924, however, a meeting to plan reorganization
was held in a suburb of Tokyo. Urged by the Russian head
of the Far Eastern International at Shanghai, efforts
toward more rapid reorganization were inoreased, and in
January, 1925, Gaku Sano and several others met this
Russian at Shanghai. The so-called Shanghai January Pro-
gram was adopted and a group of members were appointed for
organization. Sano and others again met in Shanghai in
May of the same year and drew up a second program, ealled
the shanghai

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
the Shanghai May Program.
In August, 1925, Sano and
five others, rour of them being amon; those now awaiting
trial, met in a suburb of Tokyo to continue efforts
toward organization, and a central committee was formed,
which was then recognized as being a branch of the Far
Eastern International at Shanghai.
Although during the
brief existence of the first Japanese Communist Party
representatives had been despatched to meetings of the
Russian Central Committee, following the earthquake this
custon was not resumed until February, 1926, when Kyuiohi
Tokuda attended a meeting of Russian communists at Mosoow
to receive instructions with respect to future movements
in Japan and to submit a report on proletarian movements
and politics and economics in Japan.
The report then states that by August, 1926, the
membership of the comnunist group had reached 60 or 70, al-
though in view of the subsequent large number of arrests
this would seem to be quite possibly an underestimate.
About this time the group adopted the name of (seoond)
Japanese Communist Party.
The program which Tokuda
brought back from Moscow, together with instruotions from
the same source, were adopted at a meeting held near the
Isobe hot springs in GummaPrefecture.
In September, 1926,
new local committees were organized in the Tokyo and Osaka
districts for inorease in membership. The group decided
to hold a meeting in February, l927, but instruotions ar-
rived from Moscow urging that it be held earlier, with the
result that a meeting of seventeen members was held on
December 4, 1926, at the Goshiki hot springs in Yamagata
Prefecture. New rules were adopted and a new central
committee formed, while the following day various committee
ohiefs

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8 -
chiefs were appointed.
There then arose a dispute between the Third Inter-
national and Japanese communists over Fukumoto-1am, al-
ready referred to.
The Third International refused to
recognize Fukomoto-ism. Several members of the Japanese
Communist Party were therefore sent to Moscow, arriving
there in March and April, 1927, and remaining until July
of the same year. On December 1, 1927, these delegates
having returned to Japan, a meeting was held in a forest
near Nikko.
The instruotions which they had brought
with them from Moscow were adopted and Fukumoto-ism was
defeated.
Following the meeting, in view of the approach
of the general elections, which were held on February 20,
1928, the party issued a declaration disclosing its polioy
on election and distributed ciroulars intimating that
during the general election anyone might enroll as a
member of the party.
The arrests that followed on March
15, 1928, have already been reported.
Among the activities of the Japanese Comminist Party
mentioned in this résumé of the judgment of the preliminary
judges are the following:
activities to organize a Tokyo
Proletarian Young Men's Union and a Prefeotural Proletarian
Young Men's Union; efforts to bring about a reduction of
taxes; advooaoy of a labor monooraoy;
opposition to
Japanese interference in China; publication of a magazine
called "Marxiam" and of a newspaper called "Red Flag"; and
efforts to arouse factory workers against capitalists.
Unless otherwise indioated, the information contained
in this résumé of the communist movement was taken from
press reports.
There has ocourred no press comment
following

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.93)
- 9 -
following the publication of the judgment of the prelimin-
ary judges.
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your obedient servant,
For the Ambassador:
Slum . meich
Edwin L. Neville,
Counselor of Embassy.
1 Copey m 7 B.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.C0 P.R./31
FOR
#189
894.
FROM
Japan
Neville
) DATED July 1, 1930
0
TO
NAME
1—1127
0
3
REGARDING:
Arrest of conmunists.
In June Soviet Russia received a certain amount of publicity
in connection with three inoidents resulting in arrest of
44 persons, including 7 women for alleged participat ion
in communistic activities. (zeport #45)- copy attaohed).
pra

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.91)
15101
amount of publieity in conneetien with three is
eidents. In Karafuto (Japanese Saghaliem), sesesé-
ing to press reports, 44 persons, imeluding 7 memm,
894.0013
said to have been in the employ of the Karafute
dovernment, were arresten for alleged partioipation
in comunistio eotivities. The trouble is believed
to have arisen from publication by this group of a
too redieal magezine.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
F
NOTE
894.00
B
894.00 P.R./33
245
SEE
FOR
8
FROM
Jaban
(
Neville
) DATED
Sept.5, 1930.
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
t e arrest of the 4. Cor nnists in Javanese Saghalien.
irteen have ben found ilty; amon the accused
are several of icicls of te Y rafuto Governnent.
Press revorts stotc t at a Karafuto Coumunist party
was orranized in January, branches having be n est-
ablishe in various parts of t e island.
1.1b/

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.83)
一
The arrest of forty-four alleged commmésts
d1.:
in Karafuto(Japanese aghallen) mms seperted in the
1
Embaasy's monthly report for June. the sm embarge
on this ouse wus lirted in August. or the forty-
four arrested thirtoon have been "found guilty" im
prelimimary trial on the oharge of violation of the
Poase  reservation Law and will stand publie trial.
Among the aocused ure mid to be sevoral offieials
of the uraruto Covernment and other Governmmt
offioos. ho prese roport goes on to say that 
Karafuto tnist arty, ot yet allied to com
munist croupe in Japan, wan rgenized in Jamery
I thls your, to ohirmn of the co maitlee being
a twenty-fou year old mguzine writer. Hranohes
wore a bne u tly outubliahed in various purts or
the island. wodn to the r ort strikee s
ilis, fuctories, und in co raunication morvices
01d.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
F
894.00
NOTE
B
/39
894.00 P R/36
#74
SEE
FOR
FROM
Japan
(
Forbes
)DATED
Dec.2, 1930.
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
comminist riots at Kawaseki. Fifteen arrested.
mb/

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.89)
●  .
On November z8th the poliee censorship was
Commmnist
romov a from the publication of the nows of an
B10t.2
inc dent whiah pogurred Last Way in ∞nmeetion
with the Yn: Day oelobrations. Tis ms the at-
taok on laborers by Commnlsts at Kamasaki, when
nine police ofricore were injurmd in the rioting
by revolvors, bamboo spears and mworas. On May
Duy twenty-five hndred w rkere from eleven
organinat ons gatherad in the preoinete of the
'nare hrine, Kawsas.i, nd one hundred eighty
polioemen were det tled to pronerve order. when the
moetiny wus ubout to start a hund of eightoon
members of the Mihon Kyosan Soinon Domei (Young
"ommmuriste' lllance). wearint khaki olothes and
rmad with awords, rovolvere and bamboe spears
tried to foros entry into the ahrine. of the
fifteen men and one woman who were arrested,
three, inoluding the londer, Sakuso abe, were
charged with violation of the Publie Safety Law,
interferenoe with the sxeoution of ofrieial duties,
and attompted mannloughter.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
.00B/40
SEE
893.00B/787
FOR
#5150
FROM ...Harbin
(T) DATED Dec.15.1930
TO
NAME
1-1187
Organization of communistic propa anda in Korea,
REGARDING:
China, Japan and the Islends.
Co y of despetch 2202 to Le ation at Pei ing tranemit-
tiny a second report by a Wite Russian in employ of
Harbin Lilitary Steff Headquarters on the --. Comnents
on co unism and co  unistic universities in and out-
side of Soviet Union.
leb
7
7

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.93)
0. 5150
ANRIGAN CO LA
MADBIE OHINA, Dmber 16. 1980.
SUBJECT:
THE ORGANIZATION OF COMMUNISTIO
PROPAGANDA IN XOREA, CHINA, JAPAB
AND THE ISLANDS.
THE HO MORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
WASHINGTON
SIR:
1/
I have the honor to enolose herewith, for the
information of the Department, a copy of my dempatah
No. 2202, of even dats, sent to the Legation on the
subjeot of the organisation of commmnistio propegends
in Koroa, China, Japan and the lalande.
Reepeetfully yours,
E. B. Thomas
American Conaul.
1 enclosure un above indioated.
800-B
TH/th

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.84)
9o. snse
AMERIGAN COMULATA
HARBYN CHINA.
DUBJ HOT:
THE OBQANIEATLON OF OOMIUNISTIO
PROPAGARDA IS KYREA, OHIKA, JAPA
AND HE ISLANDO.
The. Henorable
Nelmon Trmelor Johnzom.
Aseriemn Ministor.
Peiping. China.
9151
I have the honer to rofer to my desyatah No. al9s
of dovomber 19, 1930, relswive to a report on the
Cowmanistio Organisation in Haznhmria, draen ap by
a "Whi te" Ruosian in the employ of the Harbim Military
1/
Staff Headquertere end to tranmnit herewith a sosoml
roport by the some wan, ontitled s ORoaMIZaTIns OF
PROPAGANDA IN WORBA, OHINA, JAPAN AND THE ISLAMDS.
Innsameh as thim roport to a large extems deale
with aetivities onsmike of thin Conenlar Dimtsiet, it
1s obvicualy impossible for the Oonsalate to verify
ms ob oi the wattor consained thorein.
Lomefer as
It portains to the Soviet Urion and Morth Wenohuxle.
however, the Coneulate is of the epinion that it may

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.86)
exaggorated in dotail.
The Censalute belioves,
for exemple, that the ramisiestiens and vast orgeni-
sasion ef the comwmmietis universlties mentiened in
this report have been emplified to e comeiderable
extant, especkelly euteide of the Soviet Jnien. There
is no doubt that swoh insti tntions do oxist within
Emmsia, institutlons for the couversion of fereign
netionale to the conamnictio beliefs, but perhaps mot
on the seale the auther wishee ome to beliove. In
this regare, it is interosting to mote Skat there hes
been reported a spocial sohool for Lmeriouns et Ksman.
The Coneulate hes been wnmble to verify this rumor.
3egarding wommnism in the Chinese army ef Borth
Manehur le, there ie no doubt but that the germ exiete
to  rather large extent.
It is bolieved, however,
tht most of the perpetratere of ths sommomistis doetrines
have been convertod to the faith by Soviet syamte in
Manohuria und thut the number of Ohineee ofYieere of
man having the cdvantago o a commanistio univereity
edudetion has not reuehed thw propostione the muther
of thim Bocount secme to ladi ccto.
 reperted in
my despatch No. 2l93. dutec Mevember 13. 186o. the
Conenlute does not believe thet the majority of the
"munghnteoe" bands ef wor th Manohuris ase uneex the
control of the osunimta.
The Coneulate Is obviouely unable s vuriry the
mubetenoe of this report bus lt in runesitted Fo tho
Ln 8 15 20 b0vd 0 8 0 0lb10
…

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.90)
Remestfally yours.
..
Ameri ean Consal.
Enslommre:
Repert en the orgamisation of comsanistie propugamde
in Keree, China, Japan and the Islamis.
Original to the Legation;
5 eopies to the Departmont of State;
1 copy to the Legation at Riga, through the Departmont;
1 sopy to the Consulate Gonerai at Mukdon:
A coploe to the Maval Attachl at Peiping.
800-B
EP/th

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.86)
Por the purpose of propagande eutside of the Usen
there sxiete a whele system of yreporatory sehoelm,
higher solleges, csurses and organisatione.
Phe goheele fo the traiming e en amy af pe
pagandiste providing cndres of sfeilable egente abroad
axé dividad into e vil amd military soheels, and coms
under two soyarute seotlons, both of whish donsist of
three sub-seetions: 1) for white reees, 2) fos yollow
reses. zm 3) for gelored roces.
Organisatien of Progaganda in Korgu. Chinn.
Japan und the Inlards.
Jor yollow rucue t vdist ut Womeou two agial
higher i netitutions of loarming, one of whion is the
Sun Yat-vcn Instituto. and the ther ls affillated with
the Imstitute of Eastorn Languagee (formsrly the Lasarevaky
Insti tuto).
Both ef thcse institu tione are controlled
by the Comaanlat Intexaational.
During a term of Sh
yeare thego Iuutitatem-tlivursitics prepare steadfust
and conyimeed somnunists completely devoid of the cepesity
to gten the theoriou of communism and the wimple
factore of life ariming in the Ussk from the muls of
the il-musl omewnlut surty (Boishevikal. dt ie
these very inatitutions whieh supply well-traimed and
blind leudors or the comamunizt orgmisations in China.
Japan and the Lelands, of the type ef the leaders of the
deta oheunto o "Chlna'  Lod Communist xmy" which not
long ago operated in Changaha.
Outside of studying the thecretieal dootrines of
communim, the studentu have to attond. during the lest
two womestere, the courses of the OPU where they are
given lectures on the theory of espionage. tresking.
oroee-oxamination, penetration inte anti-cemmunint
orgurzutione. tuleraining snd uprooting of uwnti cummniet
labor organisations, the use of provoking means for the
extermllation or the mcat prominent nti-coamiut leadere
and organisations, utilization of press inside and cut-
side the ecuntry. lutelligoncs service. eeonomie struggle
in anti-communist countries, eto.
Aftor the oompletion
ei t cour son un gradut tion irom ixwabituto ur Unlveraity.
they are detailed for practioal work in one of the chief
departmonte or the ert. usue liy  Lozcow, for a beriod
of 6 months. end, thereafter, to one of the aspartments
o the Lastarn etion o the comannit intestlol.
Then, in most oases after the expiration of a year and a
half, the e commiecioned tor sotive wok n ve o
the meotion of ihe Communiet Internationel
orthe
It ie toteworth a this ts tre wth reura to all
oategories of sohools nd courses. thet all otudente are
n  re   S.
them ull yomalble gormd or arl tical analyels and comper ison.
an inntitate ateohed to tho Coursen of Mastnrn neungan

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.86)
ef faeteriee, mills, industrial saterpries, slatts, eta,
apomial orgmnisatlon of tho oro, ote.)
Im addition to these higher inatitutions ef legmming
there ure coursen oi 6. 8 and l8 months at Memoow, Movo
sibirsk, Irkatak, Habarovak and Vledivestok.
courees poliah up and give e final tench to propagandists
ond pexmons comalseioned from various placus by commmmist
organisations, as woll as to practieally qualifieß agomts
who have already coquired considerable experienee under the
leadership of local commmniets.
After completing these courmes, the students are wont
bask to the placee from whih they csme ame sre pleoed in
the oherge of communist organisatione, the moss eapeble ones
being sommiesicned oither to the military sour sos of the
UssR and to the Acadomy of the Cenerel Staff Headquartere.
or to the apocicl ccursos  stuchod to the Couamund et Imter-
national in Noscow.
In mddition to these courc-e there are four monthe
 the roloteriat.
ostablinhed in Ohita. Vlodivoctek and Blagovemtehenek. Here
spuoieen
htlefprope
gand ists and agi tators  ceordias to a apecially abrevlated
thdovelopoe r
man ani proletariat of China, Japan and the Islands.
This element is the mo  dongorona to mankind, for it
l eapecially eironely imb i theotto "lcot that
which was looted" and mi th "the justified right to kill.
violate and soise il t
lo: tors. They
sleo utrengly feel themselves entitlod to tho righto em
Jeyea ly "Exploiters both in privato lifo unl in the
administration of the countcy."
1
In Hos. . bir. r. Rbrok 
Vledivestek miiitary schoola ioolude special sompamies and
eguede conaitins of ti of the yallow race. 
addition to pursuing the eam couree of studies as other
students, they have to stud/ spooi e ommnlat dootrimem.
They radnate from the wahools with the rank of officet.
Upon groduation they are detelled for a year to the malitary
dotachmants of the Gpy where they axe subjeet to epeaial
apu training and attend courses of military ouplonage, pro-
pagamda in troops, organigaticn of cello in military dotack-
mants and staif headquarters, bribing, dimiutegrution ai
communitims asd eproadiug of faleo ramrs in ponapal ané
the mst etive anti-comniut staton

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.84)
La the already eaisting detaahnonts of bandita in Sgeth
Earea. ss-60s of all the graduntes aro dommismlened s
ofžigers to the international detmehments ledatak along
im Trane-Baikal, Ammr, Maritime and Tranm-Easpian previmses,
The most cupable ar: yeurly somdi ssioned in the mper
of 9 mem to the Academy of the General Staff. In aadition
to themu upecil oificurs' courses the. ure brief militaxy
sourmes of 1 yeer und 2 months at the Army Staff Mesdqusrtore
of Hovo-mibirok. ratuk a dubarovak. ttunded  young
son of the age of l6-l? who graduated t home from miaal
aud primery sohools and fuceived propor commnist traiming.
There they are taught militery soieneea and sommmnist
doi n p i   pi pr
ete. After completing the couree of atudies they are ment
back home a owelld to Join llit dclot 
moldiers, volunteero or officoro.
This is the most
dagrou l nt for th on. it  thk to
thie syetem that the sommmniata have susceeded in penetrating
Late uven wuoh  seclude nt!ols ry  tht of Japen.
Prom the arremts which wore effected/ 1929 and 1930 and
fro the mooret  ey
sean that commnnist organisettons (cells) pebetrated mot
nlytot
in corrupting the olosr o ffioura.
ue the mumber of
) and 16
in Shimenomeki. inoluding 7 men of the fleot.
Moreover, there are spesil field musters losting Sh
  f
persons mpeeieliy commiscicncd from various plscos by
tf workmen
am students of univoreitien.
Hativos of the yellew rscn rogiaing in the Ussk are
constantly beins reeruited sccordi  to the sonoral myetem.
and are called to military servios in the international
Loglon and ln apeei I fotutore ts of lie Cf em of the
Troops ef Speoial Desighetion. throngh the meeium of
commuint oslis  pnstian o isatlone.
ii t thee  
of prsan, eoonomiee, trade, banking, businese, ete.
By order of the Coumranixt Intornationul . seheels.
co ursos of propagamde ed mllitury-techcical scations with
pross and soonomie departmente, plecod in the charge of
local central organisntions ad controlled by commlasioned
members of the Central Comnittoe of the Commnist Inter-
mational, have been satabllobed in Chins and Koree sinoe
1926. 1n Japan minao 1920, on the Ialmmin sines 19se, amm
In Imdo-Chine mimae l929.' The mest capable ant xaliakle
sehoels to t V.S.s.R.
Simse apms mecial attantion has been paid to the

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.90)
sommimsioned 150
sivea speeial trmining in Moseow in
propesed organixation ef w
thees countriwn.
It the 1fth Conference of
Intormetiemal: it was established that women are 
stable elsment in propagamia, espionnge, liniwon werk as
intelligense sorvice.
At the prement time there ere 16 women's meatiens in
Sorth Mnnchuria, of which 6 aro Zoroen. 29 1n Central Ghina.
28 in South Chine. 27 in Japan. 17 in Indo-China and 49 en
the Iclands.
There are B2-5a women euployed in the organizations
handling the traneportetion of agitation literature, arms
and deeumente In tho Far net md the Talonde.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00B/41
SEE ....861.01.B.94/4
FOR7623
FROM ...Latvia
(C01) DATED11-10,1931
TO
NAME
1-1172
REGARDING: Attempt to assassinate the Chief of Soviet commeroial
mission to Japan.
Translation of commmique of Soviet Govermment in
regard to official representations to Japan on subtect
of -. and anti-Soviet activities by Japanese fishing
capitalists.
10b

=== Page 28 === (confidence 1.00)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00B/42
894.00 P R/41
#216
SEE
FOR
Japan
Forbes
May 8, 1931.
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1172
REGARDING:
the frustration of the fourth attempt to organize
the banned Japanese Communist party with the arrest
of the ringleader and his accomplices.
mb/

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.94)
The fourth atterpt of the Japamese Commmmists
to organize the defunet and banned Japan Gammmist
0021
Party was frustrated durin this month with the
arrose
arrest of the ringleader, Yoshise Iwate, and his
aecompliees. During & demenstratien staged by the
cemmunists on February llth, the annivereary of the
death of Jimmu Tenno, the firat emperor of Japan,
mumbers of students were found distributing hame-
bills containing a statement by the Japan Cemumist
Party. Comunists in Japan first organised in
1922 as a braneh of the Third International at Shenghai
but pelice raids and arreste in that year and in loss
caused them to work in secret. Members are said te
have sent to Mosoow for aid and efforts were made to
win over students, troops and factory workers. at
this time executive and legislative measures were
adopted against all revolutionary movements. The
Pease Preservation Law was amended to provide a
death penalty for offenses aimed at altering matiemel
pelley. Sinee that time attempts have been mmde to
reorgemise as a politieal party but poliee vigilazce
has prevented open aotion.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00B/43
894.00 P.R./42
SEE
FOR despatch #240
Japan
Nev111.) DATEDJw4..1931.
FROM
TO
NAME
1-1172
REGARDING: Communist Activities: Arrests made which fotled a communist
plot to burn the Diet Building while the Diet was in
Session. Of the 173 indicted, 93 men had received a
higher education.
bo

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.93)
n ay LOth news was made publio concerning 
Arrootof
series of arrests of rudioals lest year whish is maid
1000
to have foiled a communist plot to burn the Diet
Building while the Diet was in Session. Ome remark-
abto faature of the oomaunlst motivities was the
numbur of oduoated men among those arrested. of the
173 indicted 92 hed received a higher edusation.
The presicent of the Tokyo University of Commeree
whose son wes involved in the arrests tendered his
resignstion us president of the University as he
considered himself responsible for his mon's radieal
aotivitien. The mn chiefly responsible for the
reorganistion of communiam in Japan is alleged to
be Seigen Tanaka, who atudied law at the Tokyo Im-
perial University for two years before leavins the
Uuiveraity to enguge in communist astivities.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00 P R/4
FOR.#291
SEE
894.00
Japan
(Neville...) DATED ..Aug.1.1931.
FROM
1-1172
NAME
TO
B/44
REGARDING:
the trial of the Javanese Co.nmunists.
mb/

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.88)
On July 7th began the seeond triel of ferty
msists to ir their politieal viess, se mmeh se thes
the trial proee ded sluuly with mmay iatesmpsseme,
us thu juigu was forucd to raprimand those om satal
for the lunguuge usod. Before the start of the triat
the jud u in uharge of the prooe dings stated that
complote freodom of speeoh oould be indulged in and thet
the ublic would not bo sxoluded.  the trial pro
ceeded, hovevur, the oontroveralal naturo or tb oub-
juots brought up ouused t a judgo to ettempt to ez-
alu tin blio, theruty drawine vehemont proteste
r ta doulta.  sroup of somunist leborr
uttwapt d to siv wupport to thoir fellowe by sing-
ing comm lat songs bofore the oponing of the court.
 siein took l oe in fron of the taporial
or at hlon d oorat s th lui ldirt, and it was roo
port d : t ihis minor Inoident i ght lovelop inte
a peric  roblem duoe to the iplied diro eot to
tho Lmperial Fually.

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00B/45
894.00/382
#561
SEE
FOR
Ja pen
Nev11le.) DATED Apr.7, 1932
FROM
TO
NAME
1—1127
RemEx Two most dangerous undercurrents in Japan today
are communism and Fasciam,
1s

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 7, 1932.
M:
The Embassy in its Despatoh No. 615
of May 17, 1932, oonoludes a series of
four exoellent artioles (by Mr. Salisbury)
on sooial unrest in Japan with an artiole
on Radioalism.
Radicalism in Japan today is
practically synonymous with communism.
It is diffioult to ascertain the number
of oommunists in Japan,but it is estimated
by an authority that there are between
700 and 800 of them and from 10,000 to
20,O00 sympathizers. The polioe regard
the oommunist movement as insignifioant.
The weakness of the movement is due to
polioe severity and to laok of funds, and
recently to the spread of reaotionism.
The Embassy reviews the history of
Radioalism in Japan and its contaots with
Mosoow. Today the phase of communism
oausing the greatest oonoern to authori-
ties is the interest and partioipation
in it of students in higher institutions.
The theory that police oppression
helps the spread of radioalism is denied
by the aotual situation at present. Many
Japanese, however, have been heard to say
that when the wave of reaotionism that
has

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
has spread over Japan with Manohurian
developments has subsided, communism
will come to the fore.
WRL:CLS

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.94)
EE
PM RECD
EMBASSY OF THE
EE
OF
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
10
9
Tokyo, Japan, May 17, 1932.
7
6
5
COM
2.
RE
No. 615
JUN 4 32
Sub ject:
Radicalism.
894.00B/46
14 1982.
EASTE
CUPY
2ust. to 2byn
DEPARTMENTODSTATE
Ju7, 2
FAAS
JU- 1932
Department o' Starr
FE
THE UNDER SEGRETARY
JUN 16 1932
NT OF STATE
The Honorable
J川N 1 8 1932
The Secretary of State,
FILED
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to comment on radicalism in Japan,
thus concluding the Embassy's survey of social unrest in
this country.*
Radicalis in Japan to-day means practically communism.
The only radical organizations which exist are communistic,
such
894.61/15
* Embassy's despatches No. 473 of January 29, 1932
No. 526 of March 12, 1932, and No. 588 of April
894.00 385
22, 1932.
894.504/38

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
such theorists as socialists, anarchists, nihilists, and
syndicalists being without organization and without signifi-
cance.
In discussion of radicalism some include at least
a part of the proletarian political groups, but as such
groups are permitted by the authorities to organize and
participate in elections and as they pursue legal methods
to attain their ends, they can scarcely be termed radical
with accuracy.
The present strength of communists in Japan cannot be
definitely gauged as police oppression renders their activ-
ities necessarily secret.
In a recent conversation a well-
known com.unist stated that in his opinion there are not
more than 700 or 800, while sympathizers number perhaps from
ten to twenty thousand.
Another well-known communist stated
that he believes there may be a few thousand communists and
a few thousand sympathizers.
That this is the view of the
authorities is indicated by a statement which appeared in a
handbook prepared for the instruction of higher detectives,
a publication of this year apparently prepared by the police
authorities and supplied confidentially by a member of the
police to this office.
According to this publication "the
communistic movement is comparatively insignificant and there
is little prospect of its assuming any grave proportions
under present circumstances".
The weakness of the communist
movement is seid to be the result of severe measures of the
authorities, lack of funds, and the imprisonment of the fore-
most communist leaders. Communism has also suffered something
of an eclipse by the increasing interest in reactionism and
so-called Japanese fascism since the outbreak of the Manchurian
affair.
Before

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
-3 -
Before discussing present-day radicalism, however, a
brief review of its development is pertinent.
The first
radical theory to attract Japanese was socialism, the study
of which began shortly after the Restoration (according to
one authority "about 1872").
It was not until 190l that
organization was attempted.*
In the latter part of that
year the Shakai-shugi Kyokai (Socialism Association) was
formed by some forty intellectuals, including some men who
are important figures to-day; for example, Toshihiko (Kosen)
Sakai, whc is called the leading socialist but is actually a
communist, and Isoh Abe, now head of the Shakai Minshuto
AA
(Social Democratic Party), one of the two national political
proletarian parties.
(The following year they organized a
proletarian political party, but it was dissolved by the au-
thorities the same day and it was not until the passage of
the so-called Universal lanhood Suffrage Act in 1925 that
this movement became significant.)
The first prominence
gained by socialists appears to have been due to their oppo-
sition to the Russo-Japanese War.
During these earlier
years radicalism in any form was usually termed socialism,
the word becoming a generic name for all extreme theories
of the left.
As at present only communism is important, discussion
of the growth and decline of other radical movements is not
within the scope of this despatch.
It is enough to say
that socialism and syndicalism reached their most important
development during the World War and the two or three years
immediately following.
Organized socialism came to an end
in l92l with the dissolution by the authorities of the Japan
Socialist Union which had been organized near the close of
1920.
*
The first publication in Japan of socialistic writings
occurred in 1898, the year the first labor union was
formed.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4-
1920.
Apparently, both socialism and syndicalism waned
because of increasing interest in com.unism.
That com-
munism should supersede them seems to have been due in
varying degrees to the World War with the wide interest
aroused by it in democracy, an interest that prepared the
way for study of communism, to the Russian Revolution, to
the post-war prosperity with its flaunting antithesis of
the poor and the new rich, and to the depression that be-
gan in 1920 and from which Japan has not yet emerged.
the end of 1922 communism had become the leading radical
movement in this country.
The first appearance of comrunism in Japan is regarded
as havinc been the publication of the "Declaration of Com-
munists" of Marx and Enger in the HEIMINSHA, a weekly
paper issued by some of the roup of socialists already
mentioned from November, 1904, to the end of January, 1905,
when it was prohibited by the authorities.
This was the
first publication of communist writings in Japan.
Then,
19.0
in the summer of 1920, was disclosed a plot to assassinate
the Emperor, the motivation bein regarded by the author-
ities as "identical with Kropotkin's nihilistic communism".
Denjiro (Shusui) Kotoku, one of the leaders of the 1901
group, and eleven others were hanged.
In 1921 at Shanghai
an understanding was reached between Japanese communists
and Soviet agents and the first Japanese communist organi-
zation was effected on August 2lst of that year.
This
movement was checked by the imprisonment of its leaders,
but after their release in April, 1922, they organized in
the following December the Nippon Kyosan-to (Japan Commun-
ist Party) as the Japanese chapter of the Third Internation-
al

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.97)
- 5 -
2
al with Toshihiko Sakai as general director. Its members
were in touch with Ja anese communists who had fled pre-
viously to russia.
. In June, 1923, when the party is said
to have numbered about 50, thirty of the principal. members
were imprisoned for some months, thus disrupting the party,
alon with some local cornunist groups.
The oppressive
measures toward radicals resulting fron hysteria following
the reat earthquake of l923 almost brought cornunist activ-
ities to an end. In December, 1926, however, the Japan
Comiunist Party was again established, this time with about
1/.
150 menibers. (The progral: of the party forms Enclosure No.
1 of this despatch.)
by the be inning of 1928 the party is
said by the authorities to have had about 4o0 members,
though a lcadinc co.n.unist recently expressed the opinion
that this ie an exa eration. Due to the open activities
of this party at the time of the general elections of Febru-
ary of that year (the first elections to be held under the
so-called Universal Manhood Suffrage Law), widespread ar-
rests were made on March 15, 1928, some 300 communists or
alleged communists being taken.* A large number of these
belonged to the proletarian political parties, and it was
after this that the radical proletarian parties became
moderate. There are, however, still communist members in
these parties. Reorganization of the communist party was
soon undertaken by communists who had escaped the police.
In October, l928, Shoichi Ichikawa, one of the escaped
leaders, returned from Moscow with plans for reorganization.
Before the party was formally reorganized, however, wide-
spread arrests again took place, this time on April 16,
1929.**
Embassy's despatch No. 803 of March 29, 1928.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 1334 of November 18, 1929.

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.98)
.
- 6-
1929.
These resulted in the imprisonment of the outstand-
ing communists.
Despite their incarceration, the Japan
Communist Party was subsequently reorganized and exists
to-day.
I have been reliably informed that membership of
this party is not more than two or three hundred, while, as
already mentioned, the total number of communists is several
hundred more, according to the same authority.
The reason for the non-membership of so many communists
is the result of differences of opinion which came into col-
lision in 1926.
One division was led by Fukumoto, his
theory now being referred to as Fukumoto-ism; the leader of
the second was Yamakawa (Yamakawa-ism); while the third
point of view was that held by the Japan Communist Party at
present.
The essential differences were as follows:
Fukumoto opposed any connection with labor unions and similar
organizations; Yamakawa advocated the reverse; and a third
group, which now forms the Japan Communist Party, although
agreeing with Yamakawa up to a certain point, opposed his ad-
vocacy of the organization and support of proletarian politic-
al parties to gain the ends of communism.
This third group
felt that, as proletarian political parties were pursuing
legal methods, the communist party should do its best to
destroy them after which, in its view, the labor unions sup-
porting the proletarian parties would come to the support of
the communist party.
These questions were submitted to the
Comintern at Moscow early in 1927 for judgment.
The third
group won, as a result of which the membership of the Japan
Communist Party is considerably less than the number of
Japanese communists.
The party, however, does not recognize
those outside the party as communists. At present the Japan
Communist

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
- 7 -
Communist Party believes in working with and through labor
unions and similar organizations with the exception of
proletarian political parties which it regards as as de-
serving of destruction as the capitalistic Seiyukai and
Minseito parties.
There are two other groups of communists that should
be mentioned.
One is the Anti-Imperialism League of
Japan which was organized in 1927 and became affiliated
with the internationsl league of anti-imperialists in
Hovember, 1929.
This is apparently a small organization
of little, if any, importance, composed of a few communists
and supported by some students.
They began to publish on
November 1, 1930, the "Anti-Imperialism Journal", which has
since appeared periodically, always to be seized by the au-
thorities.
The aim of the members is abolition of war,
imperialistic aggression, and military training.
The
other group is known as the Dissolutionists or Laborers'
Group and is said to be very small.
This group is report-
ed to advocate severance of all connection with the Third
International.
Apparently these men feel that Russian
communism is not suitable for Japan and that the Imperial
Family should be retained even after their object is at-
tained.
The movement appears to be a reactionary develop-
ment among the communists.
As it began among communists
in prison since the arrests of March, 1928, there has as
yet been little opportunity for its development.
The phase of communism that at present receives the
greatest attention of the authorities and the public is
the participation of students.
Until the end of the World
War the interest of students in radicalism was academic.
The world-wide popularity of democracy at the end of the
war, however, gave a strong impetus to this interest.
Dr.

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
Dr. Sakuzo Yoshino, a well-known liberal of the Imperial
University of Tokyo, and some others organized among
students of that University in November, 1918, the New
Men's Society (Shin-jin-kai) to study democracy.
It
soon lost its academic character, however, and the students
began to participate in radical movements.
Similar societies
began to be formed at other universities and at higher schools.
The early connection of these student societies with adult
radical movements is indicated by the history of the one
formed at Waseda University (at Tokyo) in 1919.
One of
its members, Eizo Kondo, was the man who went to Shanghai
in l92l and effected an agreement between Japanese commun-
ists and Soviet agents, while a part of this society was
the nucleus of the first Japanese comunist organization
formed in August of that year.
In 1922 on the anniversary
of the Russian Revolution the All Japan Students' Federation*
was formed and within less than a year had 1,6o0 members
representing 39 universities and schools.
According to the
authorities these students "played a very important role in
the movements of extreme radicals".
They opposed strongly
the inclusion in
 the educational curriculum of military
training in 1924.
Because of the communistic color of its
conference at Kyoto in July, 1925, 40 students were arrested
and charged with violation of the Peace Preservation Law
and wi th lèse majesté.
That these societies were incubators
of comuunism is now apparent from the fact that many of
the students who were members of the societies during these
At
earlier years are now well-known as leading radicals.
the time of this conference, there were societies in 60
Under the
universities and schools which belonged to it.
increasingly severe measures of the authorities the societies
- whooh
* Subsequently named the All Japan Social Sciences Federation.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
- 9 -
- which were organized ostensibly for the study of social
sciences - thrived.
As if ir. answer to oppression the
All Japan Students' Defence of Freedom League was organized
in June, 1925, subsequently entering into relationship with
various radical labor and proletarian organizations.
February, 1928, together with the Proletarian Young Men's
League, it held a demonstration in favor of universal
franchise fcr those of both sexes over 18 years of age.
Among the cormunists arrested on March 15, 1928, an affair
already referred to, there were 150 university students.
The Depart ert of ducation subsequently ordered all societies
for the study of social sciences to dissolve.
The handbook
for hicher detectives already mentioned states that the
student Federation"became a veritable nursery of youthful
corunists".
in. l929, on the anniversary of the Russian
Revolution, the students dissolved the Federation and formed
the Young  en's Comm.unist League (Kyosan Seinen Domei) and
"are now en aged in the work of propaganda with redoubled
vigor and enthusiasm."
The authorities believe that all
schools above the  rade of middle school (comparable to the
American high school) are affected and even some middle
schools.
In connection with con unism among students, mention
should be made of the participation of girls. According
to one authority, the study of radical theories became
popular among girls' schools of higher grades during l923
and 1924, while from about 1925 secret communication was
established between radical groups in various girls' schools.
They are reported to have assisted the most radical proletar-
ian party in the general elections of February, l928, and
following the arrests that occurred the next month, ten
were

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
were imprisoned.
Subsequently organization among radical
girl students seems to have come to an end but that girl
students are still active is indicated by the occasional
arrest of one or more on the charge of communism.
The perturbation of the authorities before the inter-
est and the activities of students in communism has several
causes.
A considerable proportion of these students is
said to be of well-to-do and good families.
Under the
present severe economic situation, many graduates are un-
able to obtain positions and they may become for that
reason permanent adherents of conmunism.
In this con-
nection it is interesting to note that students who are
expelled from schools for corununistic activities are un-
able thereafter to obtain reputable employment.
A very
interesting reason for the concern of the authorities was
advanced by a well-known communist in a recent conversation.
He said that the principal source of funds of the communists
is students (money no longer being received from Soviet
sources) and that the authorities realize decrease of com-
munism among students will be a serious blow to adult com-
munists.
It is not possible to foretell the future of communism
in Japan.
The popular theory that police oppression helps
to spread radicalism appears to be denied by the present
situation in Japan, with the possible exception of the
movement among students.
The increasing interest in re-
actionism since the outbreak of the Manchurian Affair has
during the past few months apparently weakened the position
of communism.
For Example, it is reported that Eizo Kondo,
already referred to in this despatch, has recently declared
himself a supporter of state socialism and is a member of
the

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.97)
- 11 -
the organizing committee of the state socialism party now
in process of organization. According to the press other
communists and sympathizers have become reactionary.
have heard more than one Japanese say that when reactionism
has had its day communism will come to the fore. This,
however, is a matter of speculation only.
Respectfully yours,
lum Pheuilly
Edwin L. Neville,
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.
Enclosure:
Copy, in translation, of the
program of the Nippon Kyosan-to
(Japan Communist Party).
Embassy's File No. 800.-Japan.
LES/AA

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.97)
Enolonure No.
D.o No.
615.
b
2227
Translation.
NIPPON KYOSAN-TO (JAPAN CORUNIST PARTY)
(re-established December, 1926.)
PROGRAM
The progran of the Nippon Kyosan-to consisted of
the following thirteen items, the first item being left
in blank:
1 - (Blank)
2 - Dissolution of the Imperial Diet.
3 - General franchise (franchise holders being, how-
ever, limited to men and women of over 18 years).
4 - Freedom of speech, meetings, organization of
societies and associations, and publication.
5 - Abolition of all laws and regulations irrelevant
to laborers and farmers.
6 - Eight-hour working system.
7 - Unemployment insurance with the whole amount
borne by employers or capitalists.
8 - Confiscation of land belonging to landowmers,
temples, etc., and transfer thereof to common
ownershi., of the comnunity.
9 - Creation of high rate gradational income tax.
10 - Protection of Soviet Russia.
ll - Non-interference in Chinese revolution.
12 - Anti-war strife.
13 - Complete (one word omitted) of oversea territories.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 18, 1932.
Riga's despatoh 510, July 1, 1932,
eroloses a translation of an artiole
which outlines the attitude of the
Japanese Young Communists toward Japanese
military activities in China, published
in the illegal organ of the Young
Communists of Japan. It advooates join-
ing of the army because that will give
communists weapons and will enable them
to gain the lead among the masses of
the soldiers in a struggle against
Japanese imperialism. The article out-
lines what methods Japanese Communists
should follow while in the army.
Although these plans of Japanese
Communists are not at present signifioant,
if the reports from the Embassy at
Tokyo that Communism in Japan is in
eclipse are true, it is interesting in
the light of a reoent despatoh from
Tokyo, which indioated that some
Japanese believe that when the present
enthusiasm for reaotionism has run its
course oommunism will come to the fore.
4
LES:CLS

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.92)
EE
LEGATION OF THE
FE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No
510
Riga,
JUL 1 1932
ack
Subject:
Subversive Activities of the Japanese
Young Communists.
EAER  F
AnuNR
894.00B/47
JL 1A 52
COPY
PM REC
FARTMENT OF STA
CpylrFE
Division of
the
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JUL 16 1932
Depertment of State
FOR DISTRIBUTION - CHECK
Yes No
To the Field
In U. S. A.
cohy
MFO
The Honorable
The Secretary of State
JUL231932
18812821
FILED
Washington,
Sir:
As indicative of the military subversive work
of the Japanese Young Communists, I have the honor
1/
to forward herewith a translation of an article en-
titled "We are for the Defeat of 'Our' Bourgeoisie,"
which appeared in the Moscow INTERNATSIONAL MOLOLEZHI
for May, 1932, as a reprint of an artiole originally
published on January 26, 1932, in the LKNINSKAYA
MOLODEZH,

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
MOLODEZH, the illegal organ of the Young Communists
of Japan. This article outlines the attitude that
the Japanese Young Communists were to take towards
the Japanese military activities in China. It is
divided into the following sections:
1. Our Attitude Towards the Mobilization
Order.
2. How We Must Act at Enterprises and in the
Villages.
3. How the Work Must be Carried on Among the
Soldiers in the Barracks.
4. Work at the Front.
While the article is ostensibly of Japanese
origin, it has the approval of the Young Communists'
International and is an excellent study of the
tactics recommended for foreign Young Communists in
time of war. It calls upon Young Communists to en-
ter the army in order to carry on subversive work in
the ranks. Soldiers must be persuaded to refuse
to go to the front, to turn their guns on their own
commanders, and to join the revolutionary struggle
of the proletariat.
.The mass of the soldiers must
be mobilized for sabotage, strike, and demonstrations
together with the workmen and peasants.
The Young Communists must accompany the army
to the front to struggle for fratornization with
the soldiers of the enemy army and for mutiny
in face of the enemy. The article concludes
wi th

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
with the recommendation that:
"In case a battle has to be fought with the
Red Army, the masses of soldiers should, if
possible, be mustered into a solid group and,
choosing the proper time (the selection of
the proper time is very important), should go
over to the side of the Red Army."
Respectfully yours,
Frley Cole
Felix Cole,
Charge d'Affaires a.1.
Enclosure:
1/ We are for the Defeat of "Our"
Bourgeoisie.
(MOSCOW INTERNATSIONAL MOLODEZHI, No.
9, May, 1932, Page 7.)
(In quintuplicate.)
Copy sent to E.I.C., Paris.
Copy sent to E.I.C., Paris, for Tokyo.
Copy sent to Military Attache, Riga.
800 R - Young Communists' International (Japan)
LMH/NCG/fk

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.98)
JUL11932
TO DESPATCH NOK 510 oF
ENCLOSURE NO. 1
FROM THE LEGATION AT RIGA, LATVIA.
SOURCE: MOSGOW INTERNATSIONAL
MOLODEZHI,
No. 9
May, 1932,
Page 7.
WE ARE FOR THE DEFEAT OF "OUR" BOURGEOISIE.
(We Reprint the Article Published on Janua-
ry 26, 1932, 1n the "LENINSKAYA MOLODEZH,"
the Iilegal Organ of the Young Communists
of Japan.)
(Translation.)
Our Attitude Toward the Mobilization Order.
What should our attitude be toward the mobiliza-
tion order at the present moment, when the imperial-
istic war is already being waged? In reply to this
question we answer: "To refuse to be mobilized would
be an error." We may be asked: is it not one of
our most important methods in the struggle against
the war for plunder, to lead the masses into a strug-
gle for refusing to mobilize?
Of course we are against the predatory war
being waged at present by Japanese 1mperialism
in Manchuria, but we are also against any imperial-
istic war whatever and against a war with the
U.S.S.R.
We are conducting and shallccontinue
to conduct an energetic struggle against the
war of plunder, in Menchuria and against a war
with the U.S.S.R.
However, at the same time we must not forget
the

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
the following: in order to make all warfare im-
possible, despite the desire of the ruling olass,
we must overthrow Japanese imperialism and establish
a dictatorship of the proletariat.
In other words,
the imperialistic war must be turned into a civil
war.
In order to come out as victor in thi civil
war we must devote all our energy to the disarmament
of the bourgeoisie and the armament of the proleta-
riat.
This also defines our attitude toward the
army - that important seotion of the bourgoois state
machinery.
We must exert all our efforts so as
to draw the soldiers over to our side by disorgan-
izing the army.
From this point of view, the point
of view of realizing our general line of policy,
the question of mobilization is of a two-fold
praotioal nature for us.
Let us examine what the acceptance of the
order for mobilization signifies. It signifies
that the proletariat will be clothed in a soldier's
uniform and it will take a rifle into its hands.
Thus, to accept mobilization means to arm the
proletariat, but to refuse to mobilize means to
refuse to take up rifles.
It is quite evident which of these two con-
ditions conforms with our general policy.
But
it may be said to us: "We are also for disarming
the bourgeoisie and arming the proletariat. But
here we speak of the proletarians conscious of
themselves

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
themselves as a class, and not of the preletariaim
spoilt by the bourgeoisle." Very well.But
proletarians are not born with ready formed class-
consoiousness. It is by conducting a mass struggre
and only when we awaken them by this struggle that
the olass-consciousness of the prolotariat is born,
meaning that ats litpration may be realized only
by establishing a dictatorship of the proletariat.
Let us take it for granted that all proletarians
are equally aware of their class interests. But
also in this case, what should be preforred: pro-
letarians with weapons in their hands or proletarians
armod only with stones and clubs? Naturally the
first. What does this finally moan? This means
that in accepting the order to mobilize we, together
with the masses of proletarians, change from the
factory and plant to the army, there to lead the
soldiers into a struggle against the bourgeoisie
and, by means of this struggle, to draw the
masses of soldiers over to our side. Further-
more, it signifies that we shift our field of
activity from factories and plants to the bar-
racks. In this oase the transition of the mas-
ses of proletarians to the barracks will result
in extremely favorable revolutionary outlooks
for roalizing our principal aim - the disar-
mament of the bourgeoisie and the armament of
the proletariat. of course, the working oon-
ditions

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
ditions in the barracks are twice as bad as at the
enterprises. But anyone giving up this strugglo
because of the difficulties is no revolutionary
workman.
The question is quite clear. To accept the
order to mobilize means to continue our class
truggle in a new sphere, which, from the point
of view of the victory of the proletariat, is de-
oisive and extremely favorable. To reject the
order to mobilize means to give up the struggle in
that field of action. It is for this reason that
we must join the army together with the massos of
proletarians, lead the masses of soldiers of the
imperialistic army in a struggle against Japanese
imperialism, regardless of difficulties, and wage
a ceaseless and energetic struggle for drawing
them over to our side.
How we must Act at Enterprises and in Vil-
lages in View of Mobilization.
The closest possitle ties must be formed between
the mobilized soldiers and the workmen and peasants
of the factories and villages where they worked before
mobilization. Based on such close ties we can draw
the masses of soldiers into a class struggle outside
of the barracks, because it is only in this way that
a consolidated front of soldiers, workmen and
peasants may be formed.
There now arises the question how to form these
tios.
If the young men of the factories and vil-
lages in which we work are called into the army, we
must

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
must make use of this oiroumstance for organising
extensive mass meetings and there developing pro-
paganda work against war. At these meetings por-
manent organizations must be formed around the
mobilized comrades (under the name of a union for
rendering services to such and such a comrade, eto.).
Moreover, we must not forget for a single moment
that this must be an organ of the consolidated front
from below.
By means of these organizations we may form
ties between the mobilized workmen and poasants.
For us this is also a field of activity for ex-
tensive propaganda work against war. Finally,
they may be turnod into organizations for carry-
ing on our struggle. The successful exooution of
these tasks depends up) how actively we shall work
in these organizations, how capable we shall be
of mobilizing such mass organizations as sections
of youth attached to labor unions and the anti-
imperialistic league, and upon the work in theso
organizations.
In these organizations we must inform the
mobilized soldiers of all the events occurring
in the enterprises and villages where they were
formerly employed, of the conditions in their
families and of actual events in the olass strug-
gle, as frequently and in as much detail as pos-
iblo.

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
sible. On the other hand, all efforts must be
orerted to obtain information regarding the con-
ditions of the soldiers mobilized by the army of
occupation. Meetings of workmen and peasants
must be held for discussing the letters writton
by the soldiers (or, if possible, direot conversa-
tion should be held with the soldiers on their
day of loave).
Moreover, it is necessary that
this propaganda work is connected with the con-
orete, daily demands of the masses, on one hand,
and with analytic work regarding the conditions
of the workmen and peasants in the U.S.S.R. on
the other.
It is only by conducting the above-montioned
active work and by connecting this work closely
with our work at the enterprisas and in the vil-
lages that we shall be able to lead the masses
in these organizations, and the wide masses of
the enterprises and villages into a struggle
against imperialistio war and an active strug-
gle against capitalists and landowners, i.e., in
revolutionary acts, strikes, demonstrations, ete.,
on a large soale. It is only in this way that
we shall be able to stabilize and strengthen all
the mass organizations, including the Young Com-
munists' Union.
How the Work Must be Carried on Among
the Soldiers in the Barraoks.
In

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
In the barracks, primarily, the work must be
conáucted in suoh a manner as to gain the con-
fidence of the masses of soldiers.
We must be
the ablest and best organized soldiers.
our
conduct by no means must be of a Nihilistic or
anarchio nature. Thus, we must raise the con-
crete, daily demands of the masses of soldiers in
every way, suoh as, for instance, demands for better
food and clothing and demands for liberty to leave
the barracks, and thereby7 carry on ceaseless pro-
paganda work.
The use of the experience gained in the life of
the workmen and peasants of the U.S.S.R., and par-
ticularly in the life of the Red Army and the
Chinese Red Army before its official mobilization,
is of decisive importance for propaganda work in
defense of the U.S.S.R. and the Chinese Revolu-
tion.
. We must show the greatest possible in-
itiative and make use of the slightest possibility
fcr propaganda work.
This work must be brought
up to a struggle against officers, against the
commanders in the barracks and against Japanese
imperialism. In organizing the struggle a
soldiers' committee must be formed as an organ of
the consolidated front from below.
The soldiers
committee is just as important as the factory com-
mittee at the factory, and at the moment of the
revolutionary crisis it must grow into soldiers'
soviets. For this purpose at the beginning we
must

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
must create at least mall groups in which it would
be possible to unite the masses of soldiers, and
by means of energetio work in these groups mat-
ters must be brought up to the formation ot
soldiers' committses. It is of great importance
to draw thc anti-imperialistic loague into this
struggle, both for leuding the struggle oorreotly
as well as for atrengthening and stabilizing our
union.
Here  are confronted by another question.
This question is, how is tho anti-military work to
be oarried on in the barracks at the present moment,
when an imperialistio war is already being waged.
The answer to this question is: refusal to be sent
to the front and the support of the revolutionary
proletariat. The entire substance of this struggle
is aimed at undermining the attempts of mobiliza-
tion on the part of Japanese imperialism, seizing
the barracks and drawing the army over to the side of
the revolutionary proletariat. An erplanation of
the enormous revolutionary importance of this strug-
gle is needless. Nevertheless, we have paid lit-
tle attention to this side of the work up to the
present time. An instruction issued by the
central soviet of the section of youth of Jenkio
(a revolutionary association of labor unions) re-
garding the development of a struggle on the thres-
hold of the new year may sorve es an example.
Artiolo

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.97)
Artiele 7 of this instructiom is as followms "It
is an error to refuse to fulfill the order regara
ing mobilization. Be mobilized, so to the front,
there turn your guns against the bourgeoisie, and
fraternize with the soldiers of the opposing arw."
As regards the order of mobilization, the question
is treated correctly, but as regards the statement
to go to the front, eto., that is a mistake, beoause
the question of refusing to be sent to the front in
the barracks and of a mass struggle for supporting
the revolutionary proletariat is not touched upon.
To be mobilized in the army and to go to tho front
are two quite different questions. This must be
described in greater detail. Naturally, soldiers
ean be mobilized in a comparatively short period
of time as compared with times of peaee. This
calls for our organizing a real struggle extensively
and onergetically.
We must carry on ceaseless, energetic and de-
termined propaganda work among the masses of soldiers,
for a refusal to be sent to the front, to persuade
the soldiers to turn their guns against Japanose
imperialism and to draw them into the revolutionary
struggle of the proletariat. Furthormore, the
masses of soldiers must be mobilized for sabotage
strikes and demonstrations, and the importance of
their acting together with workmen and peasants
outside of the barracks must be explained to them
Under present Japanese conditions, when prsrequisites
to

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
for a revolutionary crisis are rapidly developing
but, owing to the extreme weaksness of individual
conditions, matters have not yet reached this stage,
and when the war is at its climax, the possibility
that, owing to insufficient politioal forces and
forces of organization (this pertains particularly
to the army), our activity will be limited only
to propaganda work is not excluded.
Thus, wo
shall not be able to prevent soldiers from being
sent to the front.
Japanese imperialism has al-
ready sent some tens of thousands of solliers and
several dozens of battleships to China.
But this does not signify that we should
slacken work in the army.
On the contrary, it
is exactly for this reason that we must carry
on an energetic struggle and conduct extensive
agitation and propaganda.
It is only by means
of correot preparations and an energetic struggle
that we shall be able to ruise our politioal
forces and forces of organization and create favorabl•
conditions for sudcessfully conducting our struggle.
From averything set forth above it follows that,
when the masses of soldiers are mobilized, we must
naturally go to the front together with the mas-
ses of soldiers.
We rejeot the individual boycot
of the petty-bourgeoisie.
We must always be to-
gether with the masses and fight to the very end.
Work

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.98)
-11-
Work at the Front.
At the front we must struggle for fraternise
tion with the soldiers of the opposing army and
for guns being turned against Japanese imperial-
ism. It is true that this work will have to be
conducted under very diffioult circumstances. But
its realization is quite possible if we, as capable,
determined, and energetio soldiers, are able to gain
the trust of tho masses of soldiers and if we do
not allow a single rore or less favorable op-
portunity for carrying on prcpaganda work to pass
by (for instance, while on the march a small rest
allowed for smoking must he utilized for propaganda
work).
In cases when a battle has to be fought with
the Red Army, the masses of soldiers should, if
possible, be mustered into a solid group, and,
choosing the correot moment (the choice of the
correot moment is very important), go over to
the side of the Red Army.
With this we conclude this short article.
It would be desirable for oomrades rich in ex-
perience to write a description of thoir oon-
crete work in the army.
ro/rk

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.92)
RECO
LEGATION OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
0
2
E
No.
867
9
Riga, OCT 27 1932
AC
C
Subject:
Rusaien Beports
s on Communism in Japan.
COM.&
932
ESR A
1932
894.00B/48
JOFY IN EE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
fromt Toryu
comi
and
i0
FOR DI
4.lo
MID
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
宏
NOV 10 1932
Depertment of State
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
I have the honor to report that the revolutionary
movement in Japan has figured very prominently in the
Russian press since the eerly months of 1932 not only
in frequent news items concerning strikes, political
DEC1 2 32
demonstrations, etc., but also in long artioles in
m. D
journals devoted to the study and promotion of revo-
lution outsiue of Russia.
From the foregoing it may be seen that the inter-
nationalist revolutionists in Moscow have a certain
optimism concerning the internal situation in Japan
in

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
in the sense that they believe conditions there are
ripening toward a revolutionary crisis.
Further
exemplification of this may be found in an excerpt
from an editorial in the Moscow PRAVDA, the organ
of the All-Union Comnunist Party (of Bolsheviks),
No. 235, of August 25, 1932, entitled "In the Zone
of Expanding Battles," as follows:
"The German, the Polish, the Chinese, and the
Japanese Communist Parties are the most advanced
outposts of the communist movement in the
capitalist world.
On these parties rests the
main responsibility for the fete of the world
revolutionary movelent and they deserve the
utmost support by the entire world prcletariat.
For they are in the firing line of the battle
against anti-soviet intervention."
This editorial was comnented upon in this Legation's
despatch No. 755, of september 21, 1932, as in the
nature of a general review of the world situation for
the preceding year as seen by the Communist Party
leaders in Russia.
In it they asserted that "during
the past year history has proved that the Bolshevik
analysis of the world situation is correct."
This
editorial was noticeable after a number of months in
which the Party organ had concentrated its main atten-
tion on Russian internal economic and administrative
problems. At the time it appeared (late August) the
Legation was unaware of the then forthooming plenary
session

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
session of the Executive Comnittee of the Communist
International.
In the light of that meeting, however,
the eaitorial appears as a preliminary to the subsequent
旦
theses and resolutions.
In the theses adopted at the Twelfth Plenum of
the Executive Comaittee of the Communist International
in eptember it was clained that the rising of the
revolutionary tide has shown itself particularly in a
number of countries, Japan being among ther, where the
indications are to be seen in the "fighting attacks
of the work un, casents, solciers, and students breakin
throu h the valls of milita  ana rolice terror."
The duties eid on the Tapanese Communist rarty by the
1/
Comnunist Intemetional ere iven in enclosure 1.
The satisfaction expressed by the Moscow leaders
of international revolution in regard to Japan is
tempered,in the enclosures to this despatch, by sharp
criticisn of shortcomings and aeficiencies in the
comrades' "work."
This is usual in all Communist
International and Red International of Labor Union
discussions, the ordinary tone being "well done, but
you could have done, and must do, very much better."
Seven translations, and summaries and translations, and
translations of excerpts of the latter kind of illustrative
material
a
Other and general aspects of this meeting will be fully
reported upon by the Legation shortly.

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
material are enclosed.
A brief lossary of the
meanings of certain transliterated Russian words and
English phrases is appended for convenience as
2/
enclosure No. 2. Briefly summarized, the contents of
the enclosures is in general as follows:
3/
The unsigned article entitled
"The Situation
in Japan, and the Tasks of the Japanese Communist
Perty" which was published in the Moscow KOM UNIsTICHESKI
IINTERNATSIONAL, the organ of the Communist International,
Nos. 8-9, of March 30, 1932, awells upon the growing
strika movement in recent years in Japan, asserting
thet from 1925 to 1930 the nunber of strikes per annum
has increased from 816 to 2289, and the nuaber of
strikers from about 89,000 to nearly 192,000.
The
number of "peasant demonstrations" has also increased
and armed cleshes had been frequantlately.
The
article notes the tendency of th) latest strikes to
stress politicel rather than economic demands and it
●
asserts that the reprisals taken by the authorities
have not been effective, in spite of the fact that
67,Oo0 persons were said to have been arrested in a
police raid in Tokyo on March 3 last.
The artiole
goes on to say that sentiment in Japan is growing
against the war in China and that, for the first time
in the experience of the Mikado's army, there had been
mutinies among the troops at the front.
It concludes
by listing as the principal tasks of the Japanese
revolutionaries in the near future: l)The overthrow
of

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
of the monarchy, 2) The abolition of large estates,
3) The introduction of the seven-hour workdey and a
radioal improvement of general living conditions
among the working people.
4/
In the article entitled "The Growth of the
b
Strike Movement in Japan," by a certain Takemoto,
published in the Moscow KRASNY INTERNATSIONAL
PROFSOYUZOV (RED INTERNATIONAL OF LABOR UIIONS). NO. 9,
of May, 1932, it is pointed out that the Chinese
war has been causine unrest emong the workingmen, ard
especially ancng those connected with the military
establishment and munition plants.
It attacks the
so-called "reformist" labor leaders, i.e., those
opposed to revolutionary tactics, for repudiating
strikes and seeking compromise with the employers.
This, it is charced, "paralyzes the political action"
of the Japanese proletariat.
The police, the article
states, is in league with these reformist leaders and
the latter sometimes deliberately provoke clashes with
the police so as to enable it to arrest all revolution-
ary elements in their unions, leaving the reformists
in possession of the field. Nevertheless, or perhaps
in spite of this, the reformist leaders are losing
ground among the rank and file who frequently act
contrary to the will of these leaders, going on strike
or participating in demonstrations, etc., under com-
munist
b
Unknown to this Legation.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
munist leadership.
It is pointed out that most of
the recent strikes in Japan have had an anti-war
tinge, but that the nunber of strikes for higher wages
C
and shorter hours has also been increasing.
From
this, it is concluded that Japanese labor is on the
offensive instead of the defensive, as was the case
until recently, and that the revolutionary tide is
rising in Japan.
5/
The speech of Lozovski, Secretary-General of
the Red International of Labor Unions, was delivered
in Moscow at the Ninth All-Union Congress of the
Labor Unions of Russia and published in the Moscow
daily TRUD (LABOR), No. 100, of April 28, 1932.
The
leader of th3 revolutionary labor union m vement of
th vorld em, hasized that "the main task of the moment"
ras to fight ageinst war simultaneously and in
coordination with the struggle for the minor daily
needs cf labor and he pointed out that "The best
exemple of the proper way to combat war is that
offered by the revolutionary labor unions of Japan."
He notes the steady growtn of the "illegal Japanese
section" of the Red International of Labor Unions in
spite of police reprisals, and he expresses himself
confident of ultimate "bolshevik success."
Details
0
Strike statistios are also given in this artiole.
They are slightly smaller than those given in
enclosure No. 3, but follow the same trend and in-
clude 1931.

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.95)
-7-
6/
Details of mutinies and other anti-war acts by
soldiers as well as officers of the Japanese Army
d
were furnished by a certain Tanaka, apparently a
fraternal Japanese delegate attending the Ninth Con-
gress at which Lozovski made the speech disoussed
above.
An analysis of the "war movement" in Japan
and the communist "anti-war" agitation against it is
to be found in an article entitled "The Anti-War Move-
e
王
ment in Japan,"~ dated March, 1932, by one Fukuoka,
which was printed in No. 13, July, 1932, of the RED
INTERNATIONAL OF LABOR UNIONS (KRASNY INTERNATSIONAL
PROFSOYUZOV) which reached this Legation in September.
The author refers to the Japanese "operations" in
Manohuria and Shanghai as "the war," a practice
generally t lowed in Moscow. This war, he maintains,
is the first attempt by a bourgeois nation "to seek a
way out of the orisis" by war.
"War and the seizure
of colonies resulting from it, the meroiless semi-feudal
exploitation of the masses of workers and peasants of
its own country, are the ferments on which Japanese
imperialism
a
Otherwise unknown to this Legation.
旦
Not enclosed.
王
Unknown to this Legation.

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
imperialism has grown.
The Sino-Japanese War of 1894,
the suppression of the Boxer Rebellion, the Russo-
Japanese War of 1904-5, the seizure of Formosa, Korea
and South Manohuria, the monopolistio exploitation of
China during the World War, the intervention in
Siberia, the 2l Demands on China, the seizure of
Shantung province, and so on - are all landmarks on
the road7 of the imperialistic aggression of bourgeois,
landowning, monarchistic Japan.
The aggressiveness
of monopolistic capital in Japan is multiplied by the
military adventurousness of the absolutist, military-
feudal imperialism."
Japan has been the first of the
imperialist countries to start a new war because it is
the weakest in their system and the least able to
compete with the others in finding an economic exit
from the present crisis.
. One of the basio causes of
Japan's present aggression is the fear of the growing
economic and politioal might of Russia.
The recon-
struotion of that country on a sooialist basis i?
causing the colonial races to rise up against imperialism.
Japan's summons to partition China, and its anti-Soviet
tendencies, are shared by all imperialist powers.
The Japanese ruling olasses are waging an ertensive
and suocessful campaign to befuddle the Japanese masses
and stir up an aggressively nationalistio spirit, call-
ing upon them not only to support the present adventures
in China and Manohuria but to be ready for war against
Russia or against the United States. Generous promises
are

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.97)
-9-
are made that the lot of the masses of the workers and
peasants will be improved after the Manohurian problem
is settled.
The Japanese social democrats repeat what
the imperialist press says. A social democratio resolu-
tion deolares, aocording to the author, that "It is
essential to unite Manchuria and Mongolia to the main
body of Japan in order to oreate a sooialist Japan within
the limits of a state socialism.
The remainder of
the article is devoted to a recital of the individual
and group anti-war agitation carried on by the Communist
Party and revolutionary labor unions in Japan and the
response thereto obtained among the leading elements
of the proletariat, the peasantry, and the army.
7/
The artiole "Social-rascism in Japan," by a
n
certain Aki, published in the Moscow KOMMUNISTICHESKI
INTERNATSIONAL, No. 19, of July 10, 1932, goes into the
details of the organization, tactics, aims, eto., of
the several faotions in the socialist movement of
Japan. It denounces the socialists for supporting
the Government in its military expansion on the
mainland of Asia and for "openly vindicating that
predatory anti-Soviet war whioh the ruling political
group in Japan is now already conduoting." Mention
is also made of some pseudo-communist groups said to
be even more dangerous to the revolutionary progress
of the Japanese proletariat than the right-wing
sooialists,
For further details of the oriticism of the Japanese
social demoorats see enclosure No. 7.
Unknown to this Legation.

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
socialists, since the masses are not always able to
see that these communists are in reality "renegades"
from the regular communist organization. Upon the
whole, this article leaves the impression that party
strife is very keen in the camp of Japanese labor.
Much space is devoted also to the problems of the
peasants, and the conclusion is drawn that they are
now good revolutionary fuel in view of the semi-foudal
oppression and agrarian orisis from which they suffer.
It is suggested that the communists take advantage
of this situation and call for an agrarian revolution.
8/
By far the most important document in this oolleo-
1
tion seems to be the report submitted by Mr. Kuusinen
to the Presidium of the Executive Committee of the
Communist International on Maroh 2, 1932, entitled
"Japanese Imperialism and the Character of the Japanese
Revolution." This report was published in the Mosoow
MIROVOE KHOZYAISTVO I MIROVAYA POLITIKA (WORLD ECONOMICS
AND INTERNATIONAL POLITICS), the monthly organ of the
Communist Academy at the Institute of World Eoonomios
and International Politios at Moscow, in its issue No. 6,
of June, l932. The article begins by stressing the
difference between Japanese capitalism and that of
other countries. In Japan, it says, the laok of im-
portant raw materials has prevented the rise of a
"heavy"
1
Member of the Presidium as well as of the Political
Secretariat and of the American Commission of the
Executive

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
"heavy" industry (producers' goods), with the result
that more than one half of the working population is
employed in the two "light" industries of textile and
silk manufaoturing (consumers' gooda) The workers
are kept at the low standard of living of native labor
usually prevailing in "colonies" and therefore unable
to offer an adequate domestic market for Japanese
goods. This, according to the report, explains partly
the aggressive expansion of Japanese oapital abroad.
The peasants are still largely in a semi-feudal
condition and greatly impoverished. The author
ingires: "Wherein, then, does the Japanese bourgeoisie
see a way out of all these difficulties?" and answers:
"It sees it in war, in military expansion. Besides
the causes already referred to, the faot that Japan
possesses a technically very well developed war machine
adapted to the conduct of predatory military campaigns
planned on a large soale, also tends in the same direo-
tion. In a certain sense, it is even now still
possible to speak of a military-feudal imperialism in
Japan." In a word, Japan is not to be regarded as
entirely a modern, industrial, demooratic, capitalist
state. It is still feudal-military and predominantly
agrarian.
After reviewing Russian-Japanese relations since
the establishment of the Soviet Government, the author
disousses
Executive Committee of the Communist International.
As suoh, his influence in shaping the polieies of the
international communist movement is far-reaching.

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
disoussesthe subjects dealt with in the enclosed
translation. He admits that it is not easy to "outline
the chareoteristio features of the next phase of the
Japanese revolution," and he asserts that the Japanese
communists themselves are more confused than ever about
1t.
One of their errors has been to underrate the
importance of combating the monarchy; they confine
their attention to the fight against capitalism only,
when the latter is by no means the principal enemy,
since it is so much weaker in Japan than elsewhere.
The author says:
"We consider the following as the principal tasks
of the next phase of the Japanese revolution:
First, the overthrow of the monarchy; second,
the abolition of the system of large landholders;
third, introduction of the seven-hour workday ...
fourth, we are of the opinion that in view of the
peculiar features of the situation in Japan, the
demand of amalgamation of the banks, and control
over them as well as over the large industrial
concerns and trusts through the instrumentality
of soviets of workers and peasants, should also
be inoluded in the principal demands."
The artiole goes on to say that the situation
of the peasants is suffioiently bad to offer a good
revolutionary opportunity, but that little has been
done by the Japanese communists to take advantage of .
it, and they are urged to "make up for lost time by
organized

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
organized politioal activity in the villages."
The
same holds good as regards the city proletariat.
In connection with the subject matter of this
despatch reference may be made to the following previous
despatohes from this Legation:
No. 4684, of August 27, 1927, forwarded a summary
of parts of a review of Communist International
activities since May, l926, taken from the Moscow
PRAVDA, No. 187, of August 19, 1927. In this the
feudal nature of Japan was mentioned on page 6 of the
enclosure and the state power was described as the
executive committee of the capitalists and estate
owners.
The impoverished condition of the peasantry
was mentioned as well as the necessity of popularizing
"the slogan of union between proletariat and peasantry."
The slogan "confiscation of the lands of the Mikado"
was suggested as of value. Already at that time the
Communist International leaders recognized the dif-
ficulties in the way of labor unionism in Japan, saying
that there was then only "a weak layer of labor
aristocracy," "the broad masses of the population
and principally the proletariat have not yet oreated
powerful class organizations of their own," and con-
cluding that a "development of trade-unionism is
fairly improbable in Japan." The article also en-
larged on the "aberrations" in the Japanese Communist
Party and complained of the "seotarian spirit" that
had

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
had hitherto prevailed in the Party as being its
"principal defect."
The optimism in recent Russian internationalist
discussion of communist subversive activities in Japan,
noted in this despatoh, may be justified in comparison
with the state of that movement as estimated by the
Communist International five years ago.
No. 32, of February 4, 1932, forwarded a PRAVDA
report of Korean Communist activities particularly
among the Japanese troops quartered there.
No. 510, of July 1, 1932, is of direct interest
in connection with the present despatch as it forwarded
a translation of an article concerning the military
subversive work of the Japanese Young Communists.
Respectfully yours,
ROBERT P. SKINNER.
Enclosures:
1.
Theses Adopted at the Twelfth Plenum of
the Executive Committee of the Communist
International.
(Moscow PRAVDA, No. 282, October 11, 1932.)
2.
Definitions of Some Soviet Terms.
(American Legation, Riga.)
3.
The Situation in Japan, and the Tasks of
the Japanese Communist Party.
(MOSCOW KOMMUNISTICHESKI INTERNATSIONAL,
Nos. 8-9, March 30, 1932.)
4.
The Growth of the Strike Movement in Japan.
(MOSCOW KRASNY INTERNATSIONAL PROFSOYUZOV,
No. 9, May, 1932.)
5.

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
5.
Translation of Excerpt from Lozovski's
Speech at the Ninth All-Union Congress of
the Labor Unions of the U.S.S.R.
(Moscow TRUD, No. 100, April 28, 1932.)
6.
Translation of Excerpt from Speeeh of
Delegate Tanaka during Debates Following
Speech of Lozovski at the Ninth All-Union
Congress of the Labor Unions of the
U.S.S.R.
(Moscow TRUD, No. 100, April 28, 1932.)
7.
Social-Fascism in Japan.
(MOSCOW KOMMUNISTICHESKI INTERNATSIONAL,
No. 19, July 10, 1932.)
8.
Japanese Imperialism and the Character of
the Japanese Revolution.
(MOSCOW MIROVOE KHOZYAISTVO I MIROVAYA
POLITIKA (WORLD ECONOMICS AND INTERNATIONAL
POLITICS), No. 6, June, 1932.)
(In quintuplicate.)
Copy for Embassy, Tokyo (through Department.)
Copy for Legation, Peiping (through Department.)
Copy sent to E.I.C., Paris.
800 R (Japan.)
FC/EA/hs

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.97)
from the Legation at Riga, Latvta.
SCURCE: MOSCOW PRAVDA,
No. 288,
Ootober 11, 1938.
THESES ADOPTED AT THE TWELFTH PLENUM OF
THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE COMMUNIST IN-
TERNATIONAL.
(Translation of excerpts.)
IV. Development of the Rising Reyolutionary
Tide and Preparation for the Battle for the
Diotatorship of the Proletariat.
1. Since the Eleventh Plenum of the Exeoutive
Committee of the Communist Laternational the risin
the revolutionary tide has shown itself partioularly
in the following countries:
In Japan - fighting attaoks of the workmen,
peasants, soldiers, and students breeking through the
walls of military and police terror. ...
D.
The First Duties of the sections of the
Communist International.
1.
The followin: are part of the special duties
of the most important Communist ferties:
The Communist Party of Japan should turn 1ts
struggle against war and the seizure of Chinese territory
into a real mass movement f the workers and peasants,
tying it up closely with the fight for the vital
necessities

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.95)
-2
nocessitios of the meases. It 1s essential to organize
the workmen's and peasants' self-defense commistees end
common aotion by a number of villages against the foroiblo
colleotion of payments frcm the peasants and the
seizure of land from the tenants, to erplain the
necessity of revolutionary struggle for the confiscation
without compensation of the estate-holdors' land for
the benefit of the peasants.
FC/hs

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.95)
OCT 97 1919
lmure No.  to despatsh o. 867 or
frem the Legation at Rige, Latvia
BOUROS: Amerioa Leat
Riga.
DEF INITIONS OF SOME SOVIET TERMS
Bednyak.
A landless peasant or one with so little that to
support himselr he is often foroed to work for others
as a "hired man."
Kulak.
Primarily the word means "fist," but it has the
further connotations of "tightfist" and "usurer." It
1s applied in communist phraseology to any peasant who
is so prosperous that his relative wealth can haye
been obtained only by tight-fisted erploitation of the
poorer peasants. A "kulak" should not neeessarily
be thought of as wealthy, in the ordinary sense, since
the term is purely relative. The name implies merely
that he is better off than the rest and therefore,
according to communist dogma, morally and sooially
invidious.
Rovolutionary Trade Union Oppopition.
This term designates the communist opposition fection
in a non-oommunist trade union. It engages in astivities
gonerally reforred to as a process of "boring from within"
the parent organization. Sometimes it is expelled in a
body by the authorities of the mon-sommunist union and
vontinues to axist as an independent union of communist
workers ongaged in the trade concerned, when it is
ganerally

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.97)
-8
generally referred to by Soviet writers as a "revolutigaary"
or "red" labor union.
Serednyak.
Aocording to the definition of the SMaLL SoVIET
ENCYCLOPKDIA, "a peasant owning means of produotion in 
amount not ereeeding the capacity of the peasant himselr
and of hie family to till the soil by their own labor,
and who does not axploit other men's labor." The
literal meaning of the word "serednyak" is "one in the
middle," i.e., a peasant neither rich nor poor.
Sooial-Fasoist or Social-Traitor.
The aim of the Soviet publicists, espeoially during
the last two or three years, has been to convince their
reading public that all partiss except the communist
parties in foreign countries were equally invidious and
that there was no essential difference between them.
It was considered espeoially important to ruin whatever
ympathy might still prevail among Russian publio
opinion for the general aims of the foreign sooialists.
It was consequently awkward to refer to the latter as
"sooialists" or "social democrats," either of which
designations was apt to arouse feelings of sympathy
and kinship. If reports on foreign politioal conditions
referred to differences between "fasoist" parties on
the one hand, and "sooialists" or "social demoorats" on
the other, it was obvious that the mind of the proletarian
reader would be at least suboonsciously influenoed in
favor of the latter and would automatically begin to
differentiato,

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.97)
dirferemtiate, when thimking or fereign politieal
parties, between those of a radioal, sooialistie nature
and those whioh were outspokenly capitalistio and con-
servative, instead of between communists and others.
Fer this reason, the term "sooial-fascist" was devised
to designate "aooialist" and "social democratio." This
was a deliberate mystification of the Russian reading
publio and it is safe to say that very few Soviet readers
oan now have clear ideas on the distinotion between
"fasoists" and "social-fascists." This is preeisely
the result whioh the Soviet publioists set out to attain
and has the added advantage that it enables the press to
avoid the use of the term "sooialist" entirely, in
oonneotion with foreign countries.
The words "sooial-traitors" are often used by com-
munists to describe the social demoorats, the sense
being that they have betrayed real sooialism.
United Front From Below.
This term is used extensively to designate cooperation
between the communist and non-communist workers - such
cooperation to be effected over the heads, so to speak,
of the leaders of the non-oommunist political organizations
and labor unions. Communists, for oxample, may
cooperate with the rank-and-file members of a reformist
trade union, but not with the leaders - with the members
of a sooialist party, but not with the leaders. The
word "below" serves to stress the fact that it is only
the rank and file, and net the leaders, of the non-oommunist
organizations who are to join the communists in suoh a united
front.
FO/OK/EA/n8

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.97)
olosur No.
to despatoh No. 867
from the Lagation at Riga, Latvia.
SOURCE: MOGOD EG
INTERNATBIONAL,
Nos. B-,
Maroh s0, 1938.
Page S.
THE SITUATION IN JAPAN, AND THE TASKS
OF THE JAPANESE COMMUNIST PARTY.
(Translation of excerpts.)
The reeent years ropresent a pioture of con-
tinuous growth of the strike movement In Japan7 and
of the sprecd of the Japanese proletariat's eeonomie
struggle from one branoh of industry to the other.
There appears below a table compiled on the basis of
ofrioial (and therefore minimized) data giving the
number of confliots between labor and capital and
the number of workmen participating in the struggle
in recent years.
Year
:Number of : Number of partioipants
:confliots :
1925
816
89,387
1927
1,202
105,350
1928
1,022
101,895
1929
1,420
112,144
1930
2,289
191,805
During l93l the strike movement oontinued to do-
velop. Thus, while during the first half of 1930 the
number of strikes amounted to 728, with 76,791 workmen
participating in them, in the corrosponding period of
1931 the number of strikes was 879, with 84,844 workmen
partioipating.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
partioipating. But what is more important, in the
period after the outbreak or the imperialistio war
the strike movement not only did not decrease, but
on the oontrary continued to inorease.
Thus, from
September to December, 1931, 842 strikes took place,
against 740 strikes during the previous four months.
But the extent of the strike movement is
charaoterized not only by these purely quantitative
data. The duration of the strikes as well as their
b
number inorsase and the workmen
are displaying more
and more determination in this struggle.
The
economic battles are being accompanied more and more
by demonstrations of politioal disoontent, direoted
against the Japanese monarohy, and against the entire
political system of the bourgeois and large land owners.
These strikes are leading in an inoreasing manner to
sanguinary street fighting between the Japanese workmen
and the polioe.
And all this happens in spite of the farocious
terrorism which assumed particularly monstrous dimen-
sions immediately prior to and during the military
action undertaken by the Japanese imperialists against
China. It will suffioe to mention that after the
order issued by the Japanese Government on August 26,
1931,
a
1. e., in Manchuria and at Shanghai.
Translator's
note.
"Raboohie" translated as "workmen" throughout.
Translator's note.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.98)
3-
l9sl, to the effeot that everywhore all workmen of
a revolutionary frame of mind were to be arrosted,
more than 400 activist members of labor unions were
arrested in Osaka, more than 600 in Kobe, 260 work-
men in Kyoto, and so forth. On March 3, 1952, in
Tokyo a raid was made by 15,000 polioemen, as a
result of whioh 67,000 persons were taken into oustody.
In order to show the intensity of the struggle,
we shell cite a few instanoes of how the strikes are
prooeeding in Japan at present.
The strike at the
chemical fertilizer plant at Taghi, in the Hiogo
distriot led an exasperated olash with the police at
the very beginning, as a result of whioh 2 workmen
were killed, while 2lo wers taken to prison. At the
time of the wopdworkers' strike in the Akamatsu dis-
trict, the police arrested 26 workmen. During
February of the present year, at the time of a strike
at & leather factory in the Higo distriot, the police
arrested 200 person. In January, 1932 at the largest
government metal plant, there was an demonstration
of discontentof the workmen in conneotion with dis-
missals and bad treatment, and the polioe arrested
more than lo0 workmen.
However, notwithstanding this most oruel torrorism,
we not only do not notioe a docrease of the labor
movement activity, but on the oontrary, we witness a
growth of anti-monarohio tendenoies, we notice that
inoreasingly large masses of the Japanese proletariat
aro

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.98)
4-
are beooming revolutionized, and we see an inorease
of the strike movement and an inorease of anti-war
manifestations on the part of the labor class.
Even
the meager information that reaohes us gives a
pioture of uninterrupted development of the struggle
of the labor masses against the predatory war started
by Japanese imperialism.
Thus, from the newspapers we have seen that at
the end of last September conferenoes of the left-wing
mass organizations of the industrial distriots of
Tokyo and Yokohama were oalled, with the seotions of
the metalworkers' union and the ohemical workers'
union at their head, for the purpose of organizing the
struggle of the workmen in the said large centers of war
industry - as a mass struggle against the imperialistio
war whioh had just started.
Another inoident took
place at the same time, namely, that only arresting
30 workmen did the police suoceed in preventing an
anti-war lemonstration that had been oontemplated by
the workmen of the silk and textile faotories "Totensi"
and "Yamada," who were out on strike.
Moreover, on
October 5 at Tokyo delegates' conferenoes took place
among the workmen of the street railway system, at
the eleotric power statior, at a textile faotory, and
at a tobacco factory; and on Ootcber 6 at a lighting
equipment plant, at a metal works, at a musioal instru-
ment factory, et a rubber fautory, at a woolen factory,
at a printing shop, and at two labor exohanges, under
the

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.97)
-5-
the slogans: "Against war in Manohurie and Mongolia,"
"Hands ofr Manahuria and China," "Down with the im
perialistio Government of Japan," "Assistanoe to the
unemployed instead of oxpenditures on war," eto.
In addition, the newspapers state that during
the first part of Ootober, at the town of Vakayamm,
the workmen of the textile printing and dyeing factory
oiroulated anti-war leaflets, while in the Aomori
distriot the shop meetings at a canned goods faotory,
and the delegates' conferences at two plants and at
three printing shops were held under anti-war slogans.
In the middle of Ootober a strike broke out at an aoro-
plane works in the vicinity of Tokyo engaged in filling
war oders. It was also in Tokyo that on November 28
the workmen of seven enterprises out on strike,
organized, under the management of an united strike
committee a joint manifestation under the slogans:
"Against imperialistic war," "Against dismissals," eto.
On December 12, a conference of representatives of 18
glass works and of two orsanizations of unemployed at
Tokyo adopted a resolution against the imperialistio
war, and for the defense of China and the U.S.3.R.
In winding up the list of all these very significant
facts bearing testimonyto the spreading struggle of
the Japanese workmen against the imperialistio war,
we may add one more item illustrative of the wave of
demonstrations against the war, and forthe defense of
China and the U.S.S.R., thet passed through all in-
dustrial

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
dustrial conters of Japan at the time of the anniversary
of the Ootober revolution: in Tokyo alone, more than
2,500 workmen took part in the demonstration.
Also the Japanese peasants who are subjeoted to
meroiless exploitation are not at all silent.
The
aggravation of the agrarian crisis and the consequences
resulting therefrom have proved to be preliminaries to
the mass movement of the peasantry which is inoreasing
from year to year.
.The following table, also compiled
from offiolal sources, gives a certain idea of the
numerioal growth of peasant demonstrations in recent
years.
The number of suoh demonstrations was as fol-
lows:
1928
1,866
1929
1,949
1930
2,109
1931
2,689
It is significant in this oonneotion to note
that, while formerly the majority of conflicts took
place rather quietly, lately armedclashes are beooming
more and more an ordinary oocurrence.
There are
oited a few instanoes of suoh peasant demonstrations
which come to our attention in reoent newspapers.
In the middle of January of this year, in the village
of Kanagana (Fukoko district) a heavy clash between
the peasants and the police took plaoe. Up to that
time the village had been considered by the estate
ownors as most reliable. As a result of this aotion
taken by the peasants 94 per sons were arrested, and
30 were arraigned before the court for rebellion.
During

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
During the same period at the trial of 22 poasants
in the Niagata distriot, o00 peasants appeared upon
the soene and demanded the release of the 22.
the middle of January, in the village of Gokamura
(Nagana distriot), the estate owners, apprehending
hostile steps on the part of the peasants, such
steps having been prepared by the Dzeno peasants
union, voluntarily reduced the rents by 70 per cent.
The newspapers also state that in January, in six
villages of the Koti distriot the peasants organized
a union for the non-payment of rent.
On January 24
in one of the villages of the Nagana distriot a sanguinary
olash took place between the polioe and the peasants.
Twenty eight persons were arrested. In the village of
Yosima, Saitama district, on February 2 a peasant moet-
ing took place, whioh eventually led to a confliot with
the polioe and to the arrest of l2 aotivists.
From the very first the war in China produoed
a phenomenon novel in the Japanese army, namoly, the
refusal to fight on the part of soldiers and sailors.
And however isolated such oases may have been, they
are symptomatio and very signifioant.
Notwithstanding the efforts of Japanese censor-
ship, some of these faots penetrate into the prsss,
oasting light upon the events now taking plaoe in
the Jepanese Army.
Thus, in one of the papers we
read:
"In

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.97)
-8-
"In the beginning of Deoember, in the town of
Dagu, Kyengsang Province (Korea), anti-war proolamations
were soattered, addressed to the 8oth regiment quar-
tered in the town. The proclamations were signed by
the Anti-Impe rialistic Union.
Immediately after
these proolamations had been disoovered, oareful
searohes were made in the brraoks, and all proolemations
found were taken away, and destroyed.
The autrerities
had to edmit that in all probability the proolamations
had been soattered by Japanese, sinoe Koreans are
striotly forbidden to anter the acks. Careful
searohes were made, and arrests effeoted, all over the
town. Some days later, the authorities suoceeded
in deteoting a seoret Communist organization in whioh
also some officers of the 8oth regimont took an aotive
part."
The effect produoed by this affair upon the mili-
tary can be gathered from the fact that the military
prohibited the press to report any details of this
oase.
All that is known is that 70 Japanese and
Koreans
were arrested in the town, as well as two
offioers who had taken til uctive part in the organiza-
10
tion.
What, then, are the prinoipal tasks of the im-
pending period of the Japanese revolution? They are:
2)
C
Jee Comrade Akhmatov's article "At the Front of War
gainst War" in the MANCHZHURSKI SBORNIK Party
Publ1shing Conoern, 1932.7
Footnote in the text.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.94)
-9~
1) the overthrow of the monarchy; 2) the abolition
of the land tenure of the large estate owmers, and
3) the introduction of the seven-hour workday, and
radical improvement of the living conditions of the
labor class ...
Js/s

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 4 to despatoh No. 867 or
n:992
from the Legation at Riga, Latvia.
SOURCE: MOSCOW KRASNY INTER-
NATSIONAL PROFSOYJZOV,
No. 9,
May 1982,
Page 37.
Summary and translation
of excerpts.
THE GROWTH OF THE STRIKE MOVEMENT IN JAPAN.
(By Takemoto.)
The opening paragraphs of the article state
that the present strikes in Japan can only be under-
stood in connection with the changes that have oo-
curred in Japanese econcmio conditions as a result
of the "war in China" and the resulting Intonsifica-
tion of the economic crisis. Japanese imperialsim
counte on an early victory in China.
The opera-
tions around Shanghai were begun with 2,000 to
3,oo0 infantry and xxx marines but in the end there
were 50,000 to 60,000 there. About the same thing
is true of Manchuria where it is expected the
numbers will come to 90,000.
Financial difficulties
have resulted.
The Japanese imperialists are try-
ing to shift the burdens of the war and the orisis
on to the backs of the laboring masses.
The war
has not brought a revival of industry.
Production
in textiles, raw silk, ramie, artificial silk,
bleading
Unknown to Legation.
Translator's note.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
bleaching powder, chemioals, European paper, have
all dropped from 25 to 55 per cent.
Workmen are
being let out even in the war industries and unem-
ployment is inoreasing.
The imperialists are
adopting more refined, more complicated, and at the
same time more cruel methods of attacking the workers.
War industries are under military control and strikes
take place in an atmosphere of White (police) Torror.
In the second half of 1931 more than 3,000 workmen
were arrested.
In March alone of this year over
1,Oo0 revolutionary workmen were arrested.
"At times every last workman going on strike is
arrested and put in jail and the social-fascists
and reformist labor union bureaucrats act along with
the police and in close contact with it.
"The role of the reformist trade union bureau-
oracy in
the
strike movement of
the Japanese
proletariat.
"In connection with the further intensification
of the economic crisis and the growth of the revolu-
tionary movement in Japan, as well as with the in-
tensified canitalistic offensive against the Japanese
laboring class, the tactics of the reformists have
changed.
"The right-wing reformist trade unions, that is,
the trade unions undor the influence of the Japanese
Social-Democratio Party, the Minsiuto-sodo, Sakaimei,
Kaiinkumiai, Kaigununrenmei, Kangiorodo kumiai,b eto.,
openly
b
Japanese names throughout have been transliterated
from the Russien.
Translator's note.

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
openly repudiate strikes as a method of settling dis-
putes between employees and employers. They have
proclaimed the principle of 'construoting a national
socialistic economic system,' whioh in their opinion
should embrace, apart from Korea end Formosa, the
whole of Manchuria, Outer Mongolia, and some other
territories wanted for building up a 'Soviet Japan.'0
On this basis the right-wing trade unions expressed
themselves as far back as November last year, at the
ordinary congress of the Japanese Federation of Labor,
Sodomei, openly in favor of reducing the strike move-
ment to a minimum, and of settling labor disputes
by peaceful arbitratior.' In the report submitted
to the Congress by the 'strike committee' attached to
the Central Committee of the Sodomei, the following
statement is contained therein:
Our union firmly believes that the settle-
ment of disputes by political methods is a task
devolving upon political parties.
Whereas the
task of the trade unions is to promote the growth
of the national economic organism, to strengthen
the organization of labor and in conformity there-
with to try to confine strikes to the narrowest
possible limits.'
"The right-wing refornist trade unions have
begun openly to apply the tactics of suppressing
the strike movement of the proletariat, of splitting
the united front or the labor movement, and of
paralyzing political action, being alded in thsir
offorts
In quotes in the original.
Translator's
note.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.99)
efforts by the money of the Japanese imperialists and
having also the support of the police forces of the
Japanese Government.
"Notwithstanding the open treachery of the re-
formists, the number of strikes/growing rapidly
from year to year. It increases in spite of re-
pressions and terrorism while the participation of
the right-wing roformist trade unions in the strikes
diminishes from year to year.
"In l926 the right-wing reformist trade unions
participated in 20 per cent of all strikes; in 1927,
in 14 per cent; in 1928, 1n 17 per cent; in 1929, in
20 per cent; and in 1930, in 8 per cent of all strikes.
of the 978 disputes in which the right-wing trade
unions were involved in l93l, 816 were settled
amicably 'through arbitration.
"These tactics lead tc the practice of the
rank-und-file worknen, who are members of re-
formist trade unions, declaring strikes over the
heads of their leaders.
.In this way the strike
at the Ombri Gaz Denki machinebuilding plant was
declared, and also at the Komisikavadzima artillery
plant, where the workmen, being members of a re-
formist trade union, declared the strike over the
heads of their leaders and applied for aid to the
Jenkio revolutionary metal workers' labor union.
"Such occurrences are not infrequent, and
in November, Last year, the central committee of
the Sodomei was constrained to send to its seotions
and branohes a special ciroular cetegorioally
prohibiting

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
prohibiting strikes without the consent of the
contrul committee, and establishing the rule that
in order to proclaim a strike the permission of
the center shall be reyuired in every individual
oase.
"The authority of the reformist leaders is
rapidly decreasing.
Unrest is ripe within the
reformist trade unions, assuming various forms.
Thus, for instance, groups are forming within the
Sodomei for the non-payment of membership fees,
also groups for struggle aguinst the internal Party
regime, etc.
Somewhat different tactics in respeot
of the strike movement have been adopted by the
centrist trade unions which are under the guidance
of the workers' and peasants' mass party Rono-
taisiuto-dzenkoku, the Rodo-sumiai, the Dome1 Soren-
me1, the Sorengo, the Nihon kotsu-umiu rodo kumiai,
etc.
The centrist trade unicns do not state openly
thut they are in favor of strensthening the existing
conomic und political system in Japan.
On the
contrary, they display particular activity when-
ever a strike i= inminent and there is no pos-
sibility of preventing it.
"when
they have got the management of a strike
into their hands, the centrists, as well as the
right-wingers, try to frustrate and paralyze
the 3irike.
it has lately become a typical
centrist methcd of paralyzing a strike to provoke
the

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
tho workmen into individual terrorism, to inveigle
strikers, without duly considering the prevailing
ituation, into sanguinary clashes with the police,
so as to create grounds for the arrest of revolu-
tionary workmen who have taken an aotive part in the
struggle, who have authority with the strikers, and
whose names have been previously conmunicated to the
police by the centrists, the latter taking good care
to hide their affiliation with the police.
In this
way they succeed in making the strike leaderless, in
wrecking it from within, as it were, following which
the whole struggle is frustrated with the aid of the
police and of the employers.
"The centrists advocate and popularize forms of
resistance such as, for instance, clinbing factory
smoke-stacks by individual workmen to play on the
humane sentiments of the employers, hunger strikes,
refusal on the part of the strikers to sleep, eto.
"Another characteristio method of recent origir
is to get hold of the organizers of the strike and to
turn them over to the police at the appropriate time.
In tnis connection the centrists purposely refrain
from creating any iower organs of struggle (local
strike committees) so as to be able to paralyze
at one stroko tho whole movement.
The strike of
the Yokohama street railway workers was a typical
example of this practice.
"Be

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
"Be that as it may, the centrist trade unions by
all sorts of tricky manipulations, clever maneuvering,
and revoluti onary phrases still manage to restrain
considerable groups of the Japanese proletariat from
joining in the revolutionary class struggle.
"In l928 the centrist trade unions were res onsible
for 5 per cent of all the strikes in which the trade
unions participated; in 1929, 8 per cent; and in
1930, 19 per cent.
"In the right-wing as well as in the centrist
trade unions there is much unrest among the mass
of the menbers.
The dissatisfaction of the masses
of members with their leaders has now assumed the
shape of a movement n favor of dissolving the re-
actionary reformist trade-union combine, the Rodo-
kurabu, and this mov ement has become enbodied and
organized in an independent League of Struggle which
embraces more than one-half of the total members of
the reformist trade unions.
"A particularly hideous role is played in
the strike novement in Japan oy the leaders of the
so-called *left-wing' trade union, the Toitsu kio-
ghikai, the Sohoioghikai, the Kanto-goitsu kioghikai,
the Kaitokha, etc., which have been founded by
various renegades frem the Japanese Communist Party
and by such liquidationist groups as the Rono and
Oyama, to act as a counter-weight aguinst the re-
volutionary labor unions of the Jenkio.
"These

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.97)
-8-
"These 'left-wing' trade unions, disguising
themselves under revolutionary phrases end trying
to pose as genuine fighters for communism are in
reality the worst and, more especially in the pre-
vailing conditions, the most dangerous traitors to
the interests of the labor class, although a oon-
siderable number of the revolutionary workmen, whom
they had previously managed to draw away from the
revolutionery labor novement in Japan, have now re-
turned to the ranks of the revolutionary labor unions.
"Results of the strike movement in 1931.
"In 1928 there were 782 labor disputes in Japan;
1n 1929, 1,355; in 1930, 2,829; and in 1931, 2,293,
The number of part cirants in those disputes in 1928
was, 80,866; in 1929, 102,916; 1n 1930, 160,887;
and ir 1931, 151,338.
"It is characteristic that the number of con-
flicts wl.ich eventually develop into strikes, in-
creases from year to year.
Thus, in 1929, 20
per cent of all conflicts developed into strikes;
in 1930, 40 per cent; and in 1931, 45 per cent.
"The greatest number of strikes took place at
medium-sized and small-sized enterprises, as a re-
sult
of which, des ite the absolute increase of
Of
the number/strikes, the average number of par-
ticipants per strike grew less.
Thus in 1929 there
were on an average l2l participants in every strike;
1n 1930, 84; and in 1931, 67.
The number of labor
disputes

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.98)
-9-
disputes in the metal industry dropped in l951 against
1930 from 489 to 447, while in the chemical industry
it inoreased from 312 to 334.
In the textile in:
dustry the number of disputes increased from 831 in
1930 to 306 in 1931; 1n the food industry from 37 to
61; in the mining industry, from 35 to 49; in the
transport service, f.om 212 to 226; on building work,
from 89 to 128.
"The slight decrease of the number of disputes
in the metal industry may be explained above all
by the militarization of the enterprises and also
by a certain improvement of business in conneotion
with the war, as a result of which, along with the
inorease of working hours and the speeding up of
work, the discharges of workmen grew somewhat less
in number, while at some enterprises wages were
slightly raised.
"In l93l, more especially in the sooond
half-year, the strike movement assumed the charaoter
of a counter-offensive. The weight carried by suoh
demands as increase of wages, shorter working hours,
reduoed intensity of work, recognition of the labor
unions, etc., increased considerably.
"Thus, olassifying the strikes according to
the character of the demands advanced we obtain
the following result:
Strikes

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
Strikes
1930
1931
:
:
Against dismissals of labor
895
:
785
: Against reduotion of wages
674
477
: By changing the system of wages:
101
: By increase of waces
:128
269
: By reduotion of work hours
15
:
33
: By removal of supervisers
:
27
35″
:
Considerable space is here devoted to descriptions
of specific strikes such as the joint strike which took
place in six enterprises near Tokyo, that of the con-
struction laborers on the River Harisakagava, the street-
car-men's strike in Yokohama and the one on the Tokyo
subway.
Characteristic features of the st ikes in
Japan at present.
"The strike movement in Japan is still weak,
not having yet seized such important branches of
national economic life as the railvay service,
the marine transport service, and neavy industry.
The number of mass strikes has decreased in con-
parison with last year. The greatest number of
strikes ocourred in the building trades industry,
among the workmen of the municipal transport
service, in the textile industry end in the food
industry.
ut at the same time the strikes were
of an exceedingly stubborn character and of long
duration.

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
duration.
out organs of struggle being created suoh as elf-
defence forces, pickets, eto., without demonstrations,
without clashes with the police, without arrests,
etc.
The number of strikes which lasted more than
one month has grown from 60 in 1930 to 110 in 1931;
the number of renewed strikes has increased, some
of them having flared up three and four times in
succession,and cases of the strikers re-eleoting
the organizers of the strike after the latter had fal-
len into the hands of tie police, have also increased
in number.
All this proves beyond a doubt the ex-
asperated character of the strike struggle.
"The second characteristic feature of the strikes
at present is that the majority of them are in one
way or another directed against war.
This is borne
out first of all by the fact that a number of strikes
occurred at enterprises under the direct manage-
ment of the military, as for instance the strike of
500 workmen at the Tsikovazima aviation plant on
Septen ber l6, the stri:e at a Tokyo aviation plant,
the strike at the l'oisik-avadzima artillery works,
the strike at the Meidzi chemical plant and at the
Tokyo Edo works, the striko at the Omori Gaz Denki
works on January 26, eto.
The anti-war character
of the strikes is furthermore proved by the fact
that
at enterprises whioh are not working directly
for

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.98)
-18-
for the production of war material the strikers also
first of all advance suoh demands as full pay to all
workmen mobilized for the front, all necemsary as-
sistance to their families, reinstatement of those
workmen who return fom the front, etc.
"And the third proof is the fact that during
the past few months a number of demonstrations of
strikers took place, directed against imperialistio
war.
Or significance in this respect are the
strikes at the Osaka Edo iron and enamel-ware works
where tha strikers arranged a denonstration under
the slogans, Long live the Communist Party," and
*Down with war,' tlie strike at the Yokohama
Docks, shipyards, and also the joint strike of the
metal plants which the workmen utilized, during the
protracted struggle, to organize anti-war demonstrations.
"The recent strikes in Japan show that from what
was mainly defensive struggle the Japanese proletariat
has now begun to take the offensive.
This is borne
out by the fact that strikes for an inorease of wages
have grown from 128 in 1930 to 260 in 1931, while
during the same period strikes of protest against
a reduction of wages decreased from 674 to 477.
Strikes for shorter hours have also inoreased, that
is, doubled.
"All these facts are indubitable symptoms that
a rising of the revolutionary wave in Japan is
impending.
HHow

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
"How the Jenkio menages the strike
movemont.
"The Jenkio has certainly soored some suocosses
in the matter of independent munagement of the strike
struggle.
In 1929, that is, before the Fifth Con-
gress of the Red International of Labor Unions, 9 per
cent of all strikes in Japan were carried on with the
participation and under the guidance of the Jenkio.
In 1930 the proportion dropped to 7 per cent. After
the Fifth Congress in 193l the proportion of the
strikes in which the Jenkio either took part, or
which it maneged, increased to 15 per cent.
"In the electric industry in 193l the Jenkio was
responsible for 60 per cent of the total number of
strikes; in the food industry, for 48 per ceat; in
the printing industry and the woodworking industry,
for 40 per cent; in the metal industry, for 1l por
cent; in the chemical industry, for 12 per cent; in
the textile industry, for l2 ror pent; and in the
transport service, for 6 per cent.
This shows that
in the principal branches of Industry in Japan
the Jenkio has not yet been able to take its place
at the head of the strike movement.
"The strikes which resulted in victory to
the workmen amounted in 1927 to 24 per cent, and
in 1930 to 29 per cent of the total number of
strikes, while of the total number of strikes
managed

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
managed by the Jenkio in 193, 47 per cent ended in
victory for the workmen.
"This is certainly likely to increase the author-
ity of the Jenkio among the workmen.
"The principal defeots with regard to tho manage-
ment of the strike movement by the Jenkio are the
lack of suppleness and pliability in its work, and
a oertain exclusiveness in its organizations. Under
such conditions as prevail in Japan where terrorism
is rampant, the most elastic forms of work should
be applied.
Every movement directed against the
employers or the reformists should be taken advantage
of for purposes of independent struggle.
"Also, the revolutionary opposition within the
reactionary trade unions labors under the same de-
fect as regards the strike movement.
prepares a strike quite well on the whole, but since
its own independent line of struggle is laid down,
and not sufficiently exactly outlined and contracted
to the line of the reformists, the movement originated
by the R.P.O. revolutionary trade union opposition7
usually goes over to the reformists, and is then
betrayed by them.
"It is also a great shortooming that neither the
Jenkio nor the R.P.O. Tevolutionary trade union op-
position7 have as yet a firm foothold at the enterprises
in
a
R.P.O. Revolutsionnaya Profsoyuznaya Oppozitsiya.
Translator's note.

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
in the shape of strong trade groups, whioh prevents.
it from making oloser contact with the labor masses.
"The eighth session of the Central Soviet of
the Red In ternational of Labor Unions has alroady
pointed out these defects as well as the way to
eliminate them.
"The latest information about strikes managed
by the Jenkio shows that the Jenkio has begun to
remodel its tactics in conformity with the direotives
of the eighth session.
"The movement in the country reveals the ap-
proach of tremendous class battles in Japan.
The
revolutionary labor unions in Japan must be on the
alert.
They have already shown practically that
they do not allow themselves to be deceived by
the reformists, nor the toilers of Japan to be
set against the toilers of the U.S.S.R. and of
China.
The principal task of the Jenkio is to
paralyze the production and transportation of
war munitions to the front by still greater
intensification of the strike struggle, by means
of organizing mass strikes."
js/fk

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.97)
857
frem the Legation at Riga, Latvia.
SOURCE: MOSCOW TRUD,
No. 100
Apr1l 88, 1932
(Translation of excerpt from Lozovski's speech
at the Ninth All-Union Congress of the Labor
Unions of the U.S.S.R.)
What are the tasks of the moment? The main
tasks of the moment - and this has been the fundamental
guiding principle of the Profintern - is not to let
the struggle against war get separated from the every-day
struggle of the workers. The best example of the
proper way to combat war is that offered by the revo-
lutionary labor unions of Japan. We have not a very
big section in Japan; at the V Congress of the Prof-
intern it cons1sted of only 5,000 members, and at the
VIII sess1on, that is, in December, 1931, only 15,000.
But in the course of those few months, during which
our Japanese section has carr1ed on the struggle
against war, and notwithstanding the fact that
thousands and thousands of people have been arrested,
and notwithstanding the faci that they have tortured
these prisoners in the torture chambers of the police
stations, notwithstanding all these facts, our illegal
Japanese sect1on has increased to 35,000.
Our little Japanese party and our little Japanese
revolutionary labor unions are menfully carrying on
the struggle against war. Even before the outbreak
of

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.96)
-8
of the war they were aotively carrying on this
struggle. And now they are fighting against war in
a real way, in a bolshevist way. And whoever fights
in e bolshevist way will have bolshevist success.
We know that from experience.
GFK/hs

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 6 to despatch No. 867 of 001 27 1982
from the Legation at Riga, Latvia.
SOURCE: MOSCOW TRUD,
No. 100,
April 28, 1932.
(Translation of excerpt from speech of delegate
Tanake during debates following speech of
Lozovski at the Ninth All-Union Congress of
the Labor Unions of the U.S.S.R.)
The blood-thirsty generals deal mercilessly with
the revolutionary movement among the workers and sol-
diers.
Miny soldiers have been shot to death for
P tosa) to re to the (ront.
visordere emong the
plae
were arrested in the telegraph company at Nagano.
Many soldiers and several officers were arrested in
Korea in  wmeetion with th despatching of troops
to Manchurie.
In Shangimi several hundred soldiers
were punished and still more sent back to Japan for
so-called 'homesickness.'
Part of the officers have been caught up in the
excitement.
The captain of the company which was
shot to death in Manchuria was shot along with the
rest.
Several officers were included among those
who were arrested in Korea.
Thirteen officers were
arrested in the barracks in Tokio; they were taken to
the foot of Mount Fuza where twelve of them were shot
and the thirteenth escaped. A whole group of red
officers was discovered in the military academy at
Tokio. They were arrested.
GFK/hs

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.96)
l.7 to despaton N.867or0710
from the Legation as Riga, Latvia.
SOURCE: MOSOOW KOMSNISRTOBESKT
INTERNATSIONAL.
No. 19.
July 10, 1952.
Page 15.
Summary and twansla-
tion of excorpts.
SOCIAL-FASOISM IN JAPAN.
"The Japanese sooial demooraoy, having only re-
cently (in l924-25) constituted itself as a party, 1s
now already an organization, coalesoent as it were
with the monarohist rogime and one that is strenuously
promoting the polioy of the bourgeois' and landowners'
bloo among the lower strata of the population. With
the eoonomic and political conditions now prevailing
in Japan as a background, the Japanese sooial demooracy
is making use of the entire experience of the wostern
European social democraoy for its treacherous designs.
But in certain respeots the Japenese social demooracy
seems to fore-shadow and antioipate the stages of
development of the Western European socialist parties
in the near future. While oocidental sooial domooracy
indulges in pacifist declarations, thereby oamouflaging
the peril of imperialistio war whioh is first of all
oonceived as an anti-soviet war, and the aotual prepara-
tions for it, the Japanese social demooraoy
openly
vindioates
a
Unknown to the Legation.
Translator's note.

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.97)
riaeicatos that pradetony anti-Goviet war which
ruling political group in Japan is now already motually
conduoting. And while the German soolal demoarady
extends its proteotion to the famoist diotatorship
inaugurated by the government of the bourgeots repubtto,
the Japanese social demooracy vindicates the military
and police rule of the monarchy with all possible
sooial-demagogical arguments.
"There are in Japan two social-fasciat parties:
the right-wing social demooratic party (Shakai Minshu-to)
and the 'left-wing' sccial demooratio party (Ro-no-Taishuto),
and in addition there exists an organization of profes-
sional agents-provocateurs, the so-called 'labor group
of the Japanese Communist Party.'
"The party of the 'state sooialists' (fascists)
who have recently separated from the right-wing sooial
demooratic party candidly professes its solidarity with
the monarchist military clique in both program and
practioal activities, the said party being the mouth-
piece of the bourgeoisie,more espeoially of the strata
of shopkeepers, well-to-do oottage workers, goverament
offioials, small industrialists, kulaks, petty and
medium landowners, eto.
"Simonaka, the leader of the 'state oepitalista'
has expressed himself as follows:
'... All of us must form a united front under
three slogans:
'The People's Party!
'The anti-capitalist party!
'No mere parliamentary party!
• Th1s

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.97)
This united front must embraee mat chly our
selves, the middle strata, but alse other bread
strata of the nation: soiontists, stete ofrimtals,
military persons, olerks, petty and medium lead-
men in the cities, and peasants (SHAKAI-UNDO-TsUS)
of January 14, this year.)'
"Today the aim or the Japanese faseists is to take
advantage of the ever-inoreasing disoontent of the petty
bourgeoisie in town and village as well as of the more
backward labor strata, in order to mobilize thom fer
predatory war and to use their disoontent to strengthen
the undisguised reactionary tendenoies of the military
and police-supported monarohy, playing on the already
manifest nationalistio frame of mind of the strata of
the petty-bourgeois exploiters, and seeking to kindle
nationalism among the toilers.
"The Japanese social demooraoy, including also its
'left' wing, is the midwife, or more correotly, the
mother of Japanese fascism. The Akamatsu (fasoists)
group took its origin from the Shekai Minshu-to and
partly from the Ro-no-Taishute, while the Oda-Iisi
fassist group has sprung from the very Sohiogikai, the
'left' reformist trade union oenter.
"After its seoession from the 'state sooialists:
(fasoists), the Central Committee or the Shakai Minshu-to
performed a 'left' maneuver this year, by proelaiming
the following demagogio slogans:
'L. Down with capitalism, we are for emergetio
inauguration of sooialiam!
'2. Ongard, found a strong "Musan-seito" (Party
of the Indigents)!
'3. Down with fascism!

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.98)
'Down with the parliament that ignores the
needs of the people!'
"But at the same time the Central Committee of the
Shakai-Minshu-to wholly and fully supports the polioy
of the Japanese monerohy, which is clearly proved by
the fifth slogan:
'5. The resources of Manohuria must be made to
serve sooialistio liberation!'
"Along with this, the right-wing social domooratic
party is making strenuous efforts to get on the good
side of the so-called 'state socialists,' ohiefly because
the masses organized by the social democratio party
consist largely of workmen of the government military
enterprises and or the marine transport service (the
active members of this organization are almost without
exception members of the labor aristooraoy, and also
master-foremen ana boatswains.)
"The 'left-wing' sooiel democracy is disguising
its strike-breaking propensities and its direct col-
laboration with the police by still more demagogic
'revolutionary' phrases and vague declarations.
"The mercenary professional agents-provocateurs
of the 'labor group of the Japanese Communist Party'
are not merely a group of renegade oommunists, but a
group closely connooted with the political and the
ordinary police which, acting upon instruetions from
the monarohist politioal police, is engaged in provocative
work among revolutionary workmen. For this purpose
the said group 'supports' even such slogans as tor the
diotatorship

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.97)
diotatorship of the proletariat!: 'Long live the
Commimist Internationall' ete. If this be takon
together with   their betrayal of Party seorets
to the police, their laying information against com-
munists, and their numerous protests of loyalty to
the Emperor and the Japanese state, it can clearly
be seen that all these slogans only serve to give
revolutionary workmen an erroneous idea of the
Japanese Communist Party and the Communist Intornational,
and to discredit these in the eyes of the masses in
order to assist the politioal polioe by making an
inroad in this wey into the ranks of revolutionary
labor.
"Thus the social demarats of all shades in Japan
are employing a variety of methods of treachery and
deceit, but their common aim is to enhanoe the power
of the exploiters, to foster a war fever among the
masses and to cooperate with the political and ordinary
police in their efforts to wreck the revolutionary
movement.
"This community of purpose between the right-wing
and the 'left' wing of the social demooraoy accounts
for their amalgamation whion is now about to take
plaoe on the platform of the right-wing social demoeracy.
I.

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.97)
6-
I. The war and sooial demeoragy.
The Japanese social-imperialists and fescists
of all shades quiokly found their bearings in regard
to the predatory war and anti-Soviet provocatieas.
In this respect they have not only oaught up with,
but have even surpassed their western brethren, these
trattors of the years 1914 to 1918, by giving their
full support to the ruling olasses in the oonduet of
the predatory war, anti-Soviet provooations, and in
the suppression of the revolutionary movement. without
the slightest hesitation they have upheld the program
of action of the military olique - that most reaotionary
wing of monarohism."
The artiole continues, pointing out that there was
and is no aifrerence between the attitude of the military
olique : d that of either the right or left sooial
demoorats as regards the Manohurian question. In
this connection Mr. Akamatsu's organ JAPANESE SOCIALISM
is quoted, also Mr. Hamada, president of the Japanese
Seamen's Union whioh is a part of the reformist transport.
workers international and member of the cantral com-
mittee of the social demooratio party Shaka1 Minshu-to,
as well as Mr. Matsudaira, leader ofthe Ro-no-Taishuto.
II. The military-and polioe-supported moparohy,
and sooial domooraoy.
"The growing dimoonteat of vast mass of the
Japanese nation whioh 1s the viotim of savage exploita-
tion and injustioe, a disoontent immensely intonsified
by the crisis and the war, has resulted in a considorable
aggravation

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.96)
7
aggrayetron ef olass strife.
"The ground upon which the bourgeait-and-land
diotatorship stands is trembling more end more vielatl
from day to day. The bourgeois-and-lanelomd momarshiat
regime is seeking a way out of this situatfom in 
temsified reaction, in the progressive easlavemest of
the masses of toilers, and in a furiously aggrespive.
imperialistio foreign polioy. For this purpese the
monarohy is mobilizing all the foroes at its disposal.
And just in these pursuits the sooial-demooratio
groups of all shades are the reliable tools of the
Japanese monarchist regime and the capitalistss and
the laneowners' blec.
"All Japanese sooial-fasoists without exoeptien
are not only very much intent upon oamouflaging the
barbarian character of the monarohist regime and the
fact that the Japanese people is completely deprived
of the proteotion of the law, but they deny even the
very existence cf monarchist absclutism in Japan.
"The part played by the 'state sooialists' is
perfectly olear. By denouncing 'parliamensarimm
and the dictatorship of finanoial capital' in the
pure form in which, they allege, it exists in Japan,
they try to strengthen the deoaying momarehy. By
representing the situation in such a light as if
parliamentariam existed in Japan, they endeavor to
hide the faot that there is absolute monerahy and
at the same time their desire is to turm the ever-
growing disoontant of the masses into a means of
t11i

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.95)
still farther strengthening thet monarony.
Und
guise of proteetors of the nation's interests they
promoting the interests of the military olique which
is the extreme reaotionary wing of the monarohy.
wonder, therefore, that the faseist committee of the
'Kekumin Nihonto' presented to Saendz1 a petition whteh
contained the prinoipal demand of the militery olique,
namoly, that, 'the unprecedented crisis through whioh
Japan is passing necessitates the establishmont of
strong national government.'
From here to the end of the first installment of
"Aki's" artiole quotations are given from Mr. Abe,
president of the social denooratio party Shakai Minshu-te
at its January 1932 congress, as well  from the "left"
soeial demoorate of the Ro-no-Taishuto. The first
artiole oloses as follows:
"It is unneoessary to dwell on the agents provocateurs
and hired spies in the 'workers group or the Communist
Party of Japan,' since they have already been showm up
sufficiently by our party.
"Formerly the sooial demoorats put forward the
demagogio slogan 'Down with the Inukai government.'
Now, in regard to an even more reaotionary government
they don't put forward any suoh slogan. This shows
the masses even more clearly than before the reaotion-
ary-monarohistio essenoe or the Japanese sooial
demooracy."
(MoSeOW

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.96)
(Mesdew
INTERNATSICNAL,
N. ,
August 20, 1938
Page 53.)
The second installment begins by declaring that
both the right and "left" social demoorats have now
united against the rising revolutionary proletariat.
The eoonomic struggle, the labor union move-
ment, and sooial domooracy.
Referenee under the above heading is first made
to the intensification of the eoonomio orisis in Japmn
due to the "predatory war" in Shanghai and Manohuria
and the efferts of the sooial demoorats and reformist
labor union bureaucrats to assist the governing powers
to prevent strikes, whioh are nevertheless imcreasing
in number.
"Every social demooratio party has a special
group of trade-union combines of its own, and any one
social demooratio Party has several independent trade-
union genters between whioh, as is alleged, there ixist
occasionally 'differenoes of principle,' This ia
more particularly the case inthe system of the 'left-wing'
social demooracy, the Ro-no-Taishuto. This is not only
due to the peculiar features of the historical develop-
ment of the Japanese sooial demooraoy, but is also an
intentional polioy meant to deoeive the workmen and to
disorganize the labor movemont.
"Bolow

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.97)
-10-
Below we furaish some date referrlng to the
trade-union organizations afriliated with the varius
social-demoeratio groups.
Supporters of the state sooiglists:
1. The Sorengo organization (le,700 members.)
2. The group whioh has separeted from the Sodomei
organization.
3. Part of the Zonkoku-Domei organination (number
of members not known.)
Supporters of the Shakai Minshu-to:
1.
The Sodomei organization (39,357 members; after
the secession of the state sgialists, the.
membership of the Sodomei has diminished by
one-third.
2. The seamen's union (88 1?2 members.)
3. The league of workmen of the naval arsenal
(43,000 members.)
The association of the commending personnel
of the marine transport service (11, 124 mem-
bers.)
5. The union of dook workers (12,600 members.)
6. The state enterprise workers' union Konggie-rode
(14,042 members.)
7. The league of foundry worimen (7,O0o mombers.)
8. The union of port laborers (7,ooe mombers.)
Supporters of the Ro-no-Taishuto.
1. The Zenkoku-Domei (41,690 mombers.)
2. The Kopu-Sodome1 (league of communal transport
workers' union - 30, 000 members.)
3. The Sohiogika1 organization (1l,Oo0 members.)
The Zun-Kodziokai organization (6 ooo members.)
5. The union of Tokyo gas workers (3,400 members.)
fThe leaders of thess unions oonstitute the
Kanto-to1tsu-Kiogikai.)
Supperters

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.97)
-11
Supporters of the "Labor group of the Japams
Communist Party" (ronegades of she Cenpunlatererty):?
1. The Toitau-Kiogikai (not numerous.)
"The above data show clearly that, first,she so-called
state socialists (fascists) are trying to oreate points
of support for themselves in the ranks of organized labor.
Secondly, that the right-wing sooial demooracy oontrols
strong trade-union organizations which in their turn
control the labor masses in heavy industry, the state
enterprises, and marine transport. Thirdly, that, as
regards the labor unlons which support the 'left-wing'
sociel democracy, one of their centers is affiliated
with the Rodo-Kurabu (which is practically the
Japanese branch of the Amsterdam International) while
another center is affiliated with the League of Struggle
against the Rodo-Kurabu, that league being alleged to
be in opposition to the Rodo-Kurabu in point of prinoiple.
"One more circumstance should be taken into
oonsideration: all these parties consider the members of
the trade organizations whose support they have, as
praotically members of their respective parties. But
in reality only the members of the central managing body
and the leaders of the respective trade unions are aotive
party members.
"This system permits great elasticity and pliability
in the aotivities of the social-fascists and trade-union
bureaucrats as far as the trade union movement is con-
cerned whereas in the field of economio struggle they
are feroed to display a maximum of mamouverina ability

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.98)
-18
sinoe many thousands of the foremost workmen are in-
volved in that movement. The prmanenoy of this state
of disunity and disjunotion in the trade-union movement
gives the social-fascists the following advantages:
1) they can prevent the rallying of the workmen in
their struggle; 2) they can employ a variety of
manouvers suited to any given labor stratun: e.g.,
'left-wing' maneuvers where they have to deal with
workmen of a more revolutionary disposition, in which
connection they will even occasionally resort to the
semblance of 'struggle' against other trade-union
organizations which are also supporting the sooial
demooracy; and lastly, 3) the leaders of the given
organization cer create for themselves a certain
support that will give then inoreased purchase when
bargaining with the oapitalistic employers for various
important advantages to themselves. At the same
time the solidarity between the trade-union bureauorats
(whose activity is not sufficiently exposed by the
Communist Party and the revolutionary labor union move-
ment) enables them to deceive the workmen by posing
as the representatives of the united front of the
labor class."
"The sooial democrats," continues the artiole,
"oan no longer conceal the existence of a far-reaching
economio orisis."
The Rodo-Keidzai is quotod as not
being opposed to a temporary wage reduotion if it is
necessary in the introduotion of a controlled foreign
commerce. Mr. Matsuoka, general seoretary of the
Sodome1.

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.99)
15
Sodome1 is quoted as favoring the general solution of
labor confliots by peaceful means, and Horiuti, one
of the leaders of the seamen's union is quoted as
opposing a strike for restored wages as the shipowners
are only waiting an exouse to lay up their ships.
The "left" social democrats are represented as
also having been foroed to admit the existence of a
orisis since it is their particular duty to prevent
the revolutionary striking masses from going over to
the communists, by being extremely radical in word
but sheer traitors in deed.
"Their most vile
maneuvers in the labor union field is shown most
clearly of all in the existenoe of two labor union
centers in the Ro-no-Taishuto, one of which is a part
of the Rodo-Kurabu while the other pretends to struggle
against it on the ground that it is a branch of the
Amsteraam International and 1s therefore7 anti-communist."
This maneuver can be explained, says the author,
because the majority of the members of the Ro-no-Taishuto
("left" social democracy) are openly opposed to their
leaders' treaohery and many of them have gone over to
communism. The open solidarity existing between the
leaders of the Zenkoku-Dome1 (the "right" labor union
center among the supporters of the Rono-Taishuto) and
the Rodo-Kurabu aroused a storm of disapproval among
the larger part of the members of the Zenkoku-Domei.
Therefore the "left" reformists (the "left" group in
the Zenkoku-Domei, Sohiogikai, Ketsuseromei, ete.)
have oome out against the Rodo-Kurabu. But the groupe

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.98)
14
mentioned in parentheses also oppose the revolutionary
labor movement Dzenkio.
The agrarian question and the social demaoreoy.
The poverty-strioken Japanese peasantry 1s stated
to be oppressed by the feudal system of parisitio
land tenure under landlords, under monopolized oapital.
and a military-police regina.
The bourgeois ASAHI
of June 28 is quoted as saying that at that time
in no prefeoture was there land whioh was not the
subjeot of a rent dispute.
"Nowadays nobody will dare to deny the fact that
there is an intense agrarian crisis. Nevertheless,
all sooial-fasoists are carefully trying to conceal
the principal souroe of the agrarian crisis - the
parasitic character of the prevailing system of land
ownership.
Hypocritically bewailing the sufferings
of the indigent peasantry (without, however, pointing
out the true means for overooming the crisis, to-wit,
agrarian revolution), they are trying to make politioal
capital of it and to araw the peasant masses away from
the struggle against the rule of the exploiters.
"The task of the 'state sooialists' (fascists)
practioally amounts to enjoining the peasants, undor
the demagogio slogan of 'saving the peasantry,' to
follow in the wake of tne landowners.
"Below we give a sample of the demands advanoed
in the kulak program drafted by the Shakai Minshu-to:
Agricultural credits to indigent peasants:
the right of managing the land to be given to
the

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.98)
-15-
the peasant toilers: state rice monopoly and
fertilizer monopoly; a ten-year moratorium in
respect of peasants' indobtedness.'
"The land problem is replaced in the above program
by the vague demand for management of the land, while
for the cancellation of debts - a moratadum in respoot
of indebtedness has been substituted.
As regards the
'mate rice and fertilizer monopoly,' it is direotly
connected not only with the demands of the kulaks and
landowners, but also with Japan's plan of imperialistio
war.
This refers also to the credits, since under the
bourgeois
regime of/landowmers these credits only benefit the
landowners and kulaks, more especially so in view of
the existing system of parasitio land ownership under
which 40 to 60 per cent of the yield gats into the
hands of the landowners.
"The true meaning of the above-mentioned demands
1s to draw the peasant masses away from their struggle
for land, to confine that struggle to certain bounds,
making it subservient to the aims of the landowner and
kulak movement.
.Still greater is the danger threatening
the agrarian problom on the part of the program and
the aotivities of the 'left-wing' social democracy.
The 'left-wing' leaders of the Ro-no-Taishuto and the
Central Committee of the nationel peasant union,
Zenno, combine 'left-wing' maneuvers with aotual service
es polioe agents. If the leaders of the Zenno, who
control only 30 per cent of the members of the union.
manage to retain the leadership in it, this is only
thanks to the monarchist-landowners' police."
The

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.98)
-18-
The author here quotes a certain soeial domooratde
theoriat, a Mr. Insomata, to the effeot that high
ground rents in Japan are not feudal rents and still
less oapitalistio rents. A pupil of his is quoted
as deolaring that the landowners are only puppets. in
the hands of finanoial capital and that therefore the
attention of the poorest peasants must not be diverted
from the ma in enemy - oonsequently the struggle for
land for them is actually injurious. The author
oontinues acousing the Rono-Taishuto leaders of having
gained control of the national Zenno conferenoe by
foroibly excluding whole organizations and betraying
to the police the active revolutionary opposition, i.e.,
"borers-from-within." A Mr. Oyama, a "left sooial
traitor," is quoted as well as a statement by the
leader of the Zenno and member of the oentral committee
made in the committee on village problems of the Ro-no-Taishuto.
This statement is said to be a oynioal report of the
police work performed by the organization.
"In the meantime the downtrodden landless or
almost landless masses of the Japanese peasantry are
making stronger and bolder efforts to shake off the
yoke of centuries of oppression and are engaging in a
struggle for the land.
This is borne out by the
following data illustrating the growth of agrarian
conflicts during the past years:
Year

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
Year
Number of confliots
1917
85
1927
2,052
1930
2,478
1931
2,689
During the present war.
1930
1931
:September
61
42
:Ootober
141
251
:December
186
309
:
"From January to Maroh, 1932, according to the
returns already available, the number of peasant
lease-holders directly involved in these oonflicts
shows an increasa of 4,000 against the corresponding
number last year (last year, 9,596, this year, 13,599.)
"The resistance of the peasants, supported by
revolutionary workmen, always ends in sanguinary
clashes with the armed police and various reaotionary
organizations.
"Lately, i. e., since the beginning of the predatory
war, peasants' raids on police stations have inoreased
in number.
Hundreds of unorganized peasants have
partioipated in these raids.
They re armed with
whatever implements they could lay their hands on.
Also peasant conflicts are inoreasing.
"Under such conditions, the idee of foroible
seizure of the land (agrarian revolution) is rapidly
geining ground among the toiling peasantry of Japan.
Neither

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.96)
410
Heither thd epen demageey of the govermmont and the
fasciats, with their 'aid' to the villages, nor the
treacherous activities of the social-fasoists and
the fasoists will succeed in switohing the Japanese
peasantry off the track of agrarian revolution. In
the process of the struggle the influenee of the
Communist Party and the revolutionary opposition within
the Zenno is rapidly growing stronger, as well as the
idea of allianoe between the workmen and peasants."
The writer is of the opinion that the conditions
precedent to an agrarian revolution are rapidly forming
in Japan and that "an allience between the working
class and the toiling peasantry is coming into being
against the bourgeoisie and landowners."
The oom
munists should take advantage or this situation and
call for an agrarian revolution.
"The Japanese communists heve scored not in-
considerable successes in their struggle against the
social-fascists and fascists. But under prevailing
conditions this is still quite insufficient.
The
inoorrect strategy whioh the Japanese Communist Party
had adopted in the past, the overrating of the power
of the military and police-supported monarohy, the
all too simple way of viewing any and all political
events from the point of view of the supposed 'fasoist
dictatorship of financial capital' without correotly
and gonoretely analyzing the ratio of class forcee
in Japan in Leninist fashion, the underrating ef the
agrarian revelution as part of the coming revolutiom,
unaerratina

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.99)
-19
underrating of the land problem and of the revolution-
ary importance of the peasantry resulting therefrom
more especially of the seredniak (middle) strata of
it, eto. - all these circumstances have been suoh as
to benefit the enemy.
The Japanese Communists are
now aotively remodeling their strategy and their
taotios, suiting them to the theses advanoed by the
Communist International.
"Another shortcoming in the struggle of the
Japanese Communists against the social-fascists is
their inability to make proper use of the taotios of
the united front from below. In the press and by word
of mouth the Japanese comrades launoh appeals to fight
the social-fescists in a united front from beloy, but
this is insufficient.
.They should take the
initiative in this struggle into their own hands.
order to create a united front, one must be able to
distinguish in actual life between the masses on the
one hand, and their social democratic leaders on the
other; one must study the frame of mind of the workmen,
as well as the motives leading them to support the
social democrats, and one must approach suoh workmen
in the spirit of good comradeship and snatoh them from
under the ideological influence of the social domooraoy.
One must be able to know and distinguish the taotioal
methods of the 'left' as well as the right-wing sooial-
fasoists. One must find out how they manage to get
hold of the werkmen, and one must endeavor to hit the
enemy in the weakest, the most vulnerable spot and mos

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.98)
-80
let him get ahead of you. But in reality it yomy
frequently happens that our comrades adopt defimite
tactios only in questions whioh have been placed on
the order of the day by the social demoorats, and
that as a result our organizations are outrun by the
enemy. A very good illustration of thie is afforded
by the struggle of the revolutionary opposition within
the Zenno, and by the struggle against the Rodo-Kurabu.
In that struggle the Japanese revolutionary movoment
has soored not a few sucoesses. And at the same
time that struggle has been a valuable lesson to the
Japanese Communists.
In the first of the two oases
mentioned the point at issue was the question of un-
conditionally supporting the Ro-no-Taishuto, as
deoreed by the leaders of the Zenno (the national
peasants' union.)
The revolutionary activists within
that union waged aotive struggle against the 'left-wing'
reformist leaders and they succeeded in rallying about
two thirds of the members of the union around them.
That was a big suocess for the Party.
"But at the same time, the prinoipal points of
differenoe between the reformist wing and the revolution-
ary wing were the attitudes to be adopted to the agrarian
revolution, to the land problem, and to the question of
organizing the struggle of the peasantry. This side
of the matter remained long in the shade, not being
stressed by the revolutionary wing as a matter of
tastical importance. As a result, no sufficienterforts
were made to expose and diseredit the refermist leaders

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.98)
21-
and to drew the vast unorganized peasant masses inte
the atruggle. Steps have now been taken to correot
this error.
"The third circumstanoe preventing the Cormunist
Party from extensively deploying its foroes against
sooial-fasoism, is it weak, not conorete, and sometimes
belated, struggle against the social demooratio
deviations within the revolutionary movement.
This
has best been proved lately by the growing economist
tendenoies within the revolutionary mass organizations,
these tendenoies making for a relaxation of the struggle
of the revolutionary labor unions and peasant
organizations against imperialistic war and for the
defense of the U.S.S.R., against the lawlessnoss of
the military- and polioe-supported monarchy, and for
the freedom of strike, of speech, press, and coalition
of workmen and peasants, etc. The motives offered for
this relaxation of the struggle are approximately the
following: 'political demands should not be inoluded
1n the program of the trade unions,' or, 'struggle against
war and the lawless methods of the police can be organized
only by the Gommunist Party, but the peasant organizations
should limit themselves to struggle for economio domands.
The artiole oloses with a referenoe to the "agent
provooateur" Matsudaira and a warning that mass revolution-
ary organizations should not merely repeat what the
Communist Party says but should attempt to draw all work-
men without regard to their politioal views into the
movement.
J&/ns

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosu No. 8 to despatoh No. 867 or 00T 27 1932
from the Legation at Riga, Latvia.
SCURCE: MOSOOW MIROVOE
KHOZYAISTVO I
MIROVAYA POLITIKA
(WORLD ECONOMICS
AND INTERNATIONAL
POLITIOS),
No. 6,
June, 1932,
Page 9.
Translation of second
half of the speech.
JAPANESE IMPERIALISM AND THE CHARACTER OF THE
JAPANESE REVOLUTION.
From Comrade Kuusinen's Report at the Sassion of the
Presidium of the Executive Committee of the Communist
International on March 2, 1932.
b
(By O. Kuusinen.)
In the foregoing we have outlined with sufficient
attention to deteil the contradictions of Japanese
imperialism in the sphere of international politios.
Now we are going to dwell in brief on the substanoe
of Japanese imperialism, examine from within, as it
were, the general economic and politicel structure of
Japanese imperialism and the Japanese social system,
the
Monthly organ of the Communist Academy, Institute
of World Economesand Internat: nal olitics.
b
Kuusinen, 0. -
Member of the Presidium of the Executive Com-
mittee of the Communist International.
Member of the Political Secretariat of the
Communist International.
Chairman of the American Commission of the
Executive Committee of ine communist Iniernational.
Party member since 1905.

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.99)
the characteristio features of the Japanems re
and the immedlate tasks of the Japanese Communlet
Party.
It must be admitted that it is no easy task to
outline the charaoteristio features of the next phase
of the Japanese revolution. Even in the ranks of the
Japanese Comuunist Ferty, whioh has been guided in the
past by the idea of bourgeois-democratio revolution,
thore is much confusion of opinion on this subjeot.
True, in recent years a change has taken plaoe, but
unfortunately not for the better, being rather an
approach towards a still more erroneous point of view.
Wherein, then, does the diffioulty lie?
It seems to
us that some comrades, including certain Japanese
comrades, are to a certain extent guilty of what Lenin,
speaking of Rosa Luxemburg and Pyatakov, used to call
imperialistic economism.
Those comrades referred
without much thought to one aspect only of the conoen-
tration of capital, namely, "financial capital," and
on this basis alone they defined the Japanese revolution
as a proletarian revolution. In outlining, the charaoter
of the revolution, they did not so much as attempt to
take into consideration the peouliarties of the situa-
tion in Japan as a whole. And thus, based on a limited
number of faots, those comrades arrived at all too hasty
conolusions.
That is why in the long run their con-
clusions were the seme es those of the Trotskists.
The politioal meaning of that deviation, of that
"left-wing" errorwas by no means innocuous: an under-
rating

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
rating of the struggle against the Japanese monarohy and
againet the survivals of feudalism in Japan underlay that
deviation.
of course, we all are making for preletarian
diotatorship and for sooialistic revolution. But as
Marxist Leninists we are first of all bound to outline
as olearly as possible the conorete road of the revolution
and to map out the lines along which it must procood in
order to be victorious.
In dealing with this subject as far as Japan is
conoerned we cannot ignore the enormous importance of
struggle against the monarchy.
Sometimes the opinion
is expressed that the monarohy in Japan does not play an
independent part.
. But the part of the monarchy is to
serve as the executive organ of the large feudal land-
owners' policy, the feudal class, and the bourgeoisie.
For carrying the policies of these two olasses into
execution there exists a machinery, a meohanism, and
above all a military mechanism, to which a certain
independent oharacter can sceroely be denied.
Also the
correotness of the assertion that absolute monarchism
has existed in Japan since l868 is very often doubted.
we know
Nevertheless/that just in that year, in the early stage
of the bourgeois reform movement in Japan, the puppet
monarchy, which up to that time had reigned in the
country as the superstruoture of an absolutely feudal
system, gave way to the modern system of absolute
monarohy under the fla of restoration.
Restoration
of the absolute monarchy - that was the reectionary
slogan

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.98)
4-
slogan under whioh the netionel renascence toek plass
in Japan, when struggle was waged against the treatios
foreed upon the country and against exploitation by
foreigs ospitalists.
This argument is usually countered
by the statement that Japan has a parliament and a con-
stitution.
"How is it possible," it is argued, "to
say that there is an absolute monarohy?"
True, there is
a constitution, but it is merely on paper.
There is
alao a parliament, but in no other oountry in the
world, at least in no other more or less prominent country,
is parliamentarism so "free" from all demooratic rights,
and so "untrammeled" by any constitutional guarantees;
there is no other country whose parliament is so de-
pendent, so genuinely a puppet parliament in the full
sense of the word; no other country where the monarohist
bureaucracy and the higher military oircles are so
independent of parliament, and no other country in whioh,
under the "constitution" such as it actually exists,
and in the face of monarohist class terrorism, it is so
difficult to elect any represertatives of the oppressed
classes to parliament.
The politioal system in Japan is composed of three
constituent elements.
The first element is the monarohy;
the seoond, the large landowners; and the third,
monopolistic capitalism.
Thus we have here a system
in whioh these three constituent parts may be discerned.
This is juat what scientifio analysis was to establish;
otherwise there would be no clarity in this matter.
What

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.98)
5
what is the characteristio feature of monarchy? First
of all, the state maohinery, the monarohist state
maohinery.
The monarchist state mechinery is the strong
framework of the existing diotatorship of the olasses of
rploiters; the monarchist state maohinery is supported
by these olasses, it represents their interests, and
it is in closest allianoe with the top strata of the
bourgeoisie and the landowners. However, at the same
time it is also developing an independent, comparatively
important role of its own, developing its absolutist
character which is only outwardly camouflaged by the
adoption of sham-constitutional forms. In respect of
whom 1s such a part played by it7 independent? Certainly
not in respeot of the classes of exploiters as suoh, but
only in respect to certain top strata of these olasses,
and principally in respect to the parliament.
Is the relative independence of the Japanese monarchy
less considerable than was the independence of Russian
Tsarism?
Not by any means; the other way about rather.
Of course, the coalescence of the monarchist bureaucracy
and finanoial capitalism has already progressed very far.
Part of that bureauoraoy was of course closely intertwined
from the very first with the feudal elements coming from
the landowner olass; but the strongest constituent element
in the state maohinery, and its best support, are the
military ciroles which play a perfectly independent part.
Lenin used to refer to ignoring absolutism and monarchy
in this way as an Otzovist error.
Lenin oonsidered it
an
A "left" group wes formed in 1908 within the Bolshevik
faction of the Russian Social-Demoratio Labor Party
called

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
an orror that some people interpreted monatohy and
absolutism as "direct rule of the possessing classes."
To underrate the role of the monarchy is a "left-wing"
error.
Therefore we must warn against any under-
rating of the struggle against the Japanese monarohy
of
and that 1s why the slogan/a workers' and poasants'
republio should be emphasized.
In
called "Otzovist" (recallers.) The Small Soviet
Encyolopedia explains it as follows: The platform of
Otzovism is explained in detail in the resolution of
the Otzovists submitted to the conferenoe of the
St. Petersburg organization in l908, and it amounts
to the following: The country is headed for another
revolutionary upsurge and consequently for armed
rebellion; the aotivity of the fraction in the Duma
merely obscures the consciousness of the workingmen
and is therefore harmful; henoe it is neoessary to
advance the slogan of "Down with the Duma" and "Long
live the Constituent Assembly;" the fraction is to be
recalled and all foroes are to be hurled into prepara-
tions for ar ed rebellion. The Otzovists fought not
only against the utilization of the Duma platform but
also against other "lawful opportunities." They took
absolutely no acoount of the changed situation whioh
had arisen after the ravolution of l905, of the step
the autocracy had taken toward a transformation into
a bourgeois monarchy. The roots of the Otzovist
movement were in the weariness and apathy which by that
time had af eoted the majority of the working olass.
Lenin furnished an exhaustive criticism of Otzovism
as an opportunist tendency, in the PROLETARI, No. 39,
of l9o8. A conferenoe of an enlarged editorial board
of the PROETaRI in l9o9 branded the Otzovist taotics
as an opportunist adaptation to the passive elements
of the workin class ...
(From OTZOVIT, in the
Small soviet Enoyclopedie, Moscow, 1931.)
Mr. Kuusinen's meaning might have been clearer,
in relation to the distinotion in the Soviet Enoyolopedta
article between an "autocracy" ana a "bourgeois monarohy,"
had he made the sentence in luestion read as follows:
"Lenin used to refer to i moring the differenoe between?
absolutism and monarohy as an Otzovist error."
Translator's
note.

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.98)
In the above-mentioned "left-wing" tendengies 
pereeive the underrating of a very substantial faotop
the struggle against the monarohy, as well as an under-
rating of any activities making for agrarian revolution
This is a case in point, demonstrating the olose
relationship between the "left-wing" social demooratio
orientation and the right-wing bourgeois demooratio
point of view.
Such a coincidence could also be found in the sootaI
democratio press. The "left-wing" sooial democraoy,
at least so far as reprosented by some of its leaders
was openly for proletarian revolution in contradistinotion
to that revolution which in the beginning sets itself
the aim of overtnrowing the monarchy first of all.
Japan there are also conmunist renegades, genuine
renegades, who perhaps were already renegades while
still in our ranks; at any rate, efter their arrest,
they definitely adopted the point of view of creatures
d
of the Zubatov type.
The point of view of those
elements anu their rundamental idea is that the monarohy
in Ja an is something that stands above the classes.
And therefore the "struggle" of the representatives of
the "left-wing" orientation is not direoted against
the
Before the War Zubatov was a chief of the political
police, whose system was to have his seoret agents
join illegal labor organizations for the purpose
of obtaining information against them.
Translator's
note.

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.98)
8
the monarchy, but against capitalism, the large trust
and finanoiel capital.
That is why those ranogades are legalized, within
oertain limits, for the purpose of conduoting revolution-
ary" propaganda in favor of the so-celled "proletarian
revolution" against financial capital.
This status
of legality is their reward for having abandoned the
idea of any revoiution that may be direoted against
the monarohy.
This too is a "left-wing" orientation, a
course pretending in words to make for proletarian
revolution, but in reality it is a social-fasoist
orientation. Now, if that is "left-wing" orientation
in words, but in reality social-fasoist orientation
in factT then what should it be called? It should be
oalled Trotskism. It is Japanese Trotskism whioh
manifests itself here as a true copy of the Zubatov
sysuem, as bourgeois opportunism and sooial-fasoism.
We consider the following as the prinoipal tasks
of the next phase of the Japanese revolution: firat, the
overthrow of the monarohy; second, the abolition of
the system of large lenaholders; third, introduotion of
the seven-hour workday, whioh is our permanent slogan
in our current work; fourth, we are of the opinion that
in view of the peoulier features of the situation in
Japan, the demand of amalgamation of the banks, and
control over them as well as over the large industrial
concerns and trusts through the instrumentality of soviets
of workers and peasants - should also be inoluded in
the prinoipal demands.
We have taken the substanoe
of

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.99)
of this demand from Lenin's thesis in april, 1917.
In the present case it would be an unpardonable error
if, in speoifying the principal tasks of the revolution
in Japan, we were to omit this or some other analogous
demand.
Why?
Because of the close coalesoence - so
characteristio for the struoture of the Japanese social
regime - of its feudal and semi-feudal element, i. e.,
of the semi-feudal monarohy and the strong remnant of
the feudal imperialistic system of landownership,with
another of the constituent elements of the regime,
namely: with the highly-developed and concentrated
financial capital.
These two elements are so closely
welde: togetner, ard so mueh interwoven
with the entire
poliey of Japanese imperialiss, that it is absolutely
impossible to se arate them.
The amalgamation of banks, and soviet control over
them, is of course not a program demand of ours.
was it in 1917 a program demand for Lenin.
He even
said so expressly, stating that this demand was only a
preliminary to socialistic measures.
At that time he
had a controversy with Kamenev, and he emphasized that
he was not for immeuiate "inauguration of socialism,"
but that he advooated only preliminary steps.
We regard
this demand as a preliminary, as something meant to
aocelerate the transition of the bourgeois-demoeratio
revolution into proletarian revolution.
We oonsider
this demand neoessary because without it the impression
might be created that we divide the revolution into two
conseoutive stages, the bourgeois-demooratiostage and the
stage

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
stage or the proletarian revolution, and that con-
sequently at the first stage only bourgeois-democratio
aims should be striven for, suoh as: the overthrow of
the monarohy, the uprooting of various remnants of
feudalism, agrarian revolution, confisoation of the
large estates of the big landowners, eto., and nothing
more.
These all are tasks of the bourgeois-demooratio
revolution, negative tasks, as it were, whioh do not
imply any onslaught whatsoever upon capitalistio property.
But if we take into consideration the peculiar and
speoial features of Japanese imperialism, if we take
into consideration the entire political structure of
Japan, we shall have sufficient reason for recognizing
the expediency, and not only the expediency, but even
the imperative necessity, of laying our hand on
capitalistic property to a certain extent even in the
first phase of revolution (provided of course that the
political power will then already belong to the workmen
and peasants.)
This would not yet be socialism, this
would not yet be confisoation of the property of the
capitalists, this would even be less than what Lenin
demanded in l917, when cal! ing for amalgamation of the
banks, ho simultaneously uemanded control over oapital-
istio production in general.
We are of the opinion
that in Japan suoh a demand would be justified only
in respect of the various large concerns.
Just in this
respeot we are confronted here with a charaoteristio
and essential feature of the Japanese cepital lstic economio
system and its extraordinary cencentration.
Supposing
that

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
that now, on the eve of the revolution, or during the
revolution, or on the morrow of the revolution, the
workmen tell us: "Very well: overthrow of the
monarchy!
But what about these five trusts?
Shall
we really not touoh their property simply beoause this
1s not permissible theoretically?"
We shall of course
answer them that this is necessary not only from the
practical, but also from the theoretical point of view,
and that control over produotion, on the part of the
workers' and peasants' soviets, is necessary.
course, in practical life that control would soon take
the shape of confiscation. For where will the boundary
line between control and confiscation be?
Under
practical conditions it will be exoeedingly difficult
to draw that line.
But just now our sole concern is
to select an adequate slogan.
And we believe that
the slogan: control over iroduction, is a transitional
slogan in anticipation of a revolutionary situation;
but in so important a sphere es the problem of the
supremaoy of monopolistic capitalism, that slogan is so
essential that even now it should be inoludel in the
principal demands of the first stage of the revolution.
Now a few words about the moving powers of the
revolution: the peasantry and the proletariat.
The bulk of the Japanese peasantry are the victims
of semi-feudal exploitation and corvee, being constantly
exploited by the numerically-lerge ruling class of
usurers.
About 40, O00 large landowners lead an absolutely
parasitic existenee at the expense of the peasantry. but
here too the first indications, the first signs of a
clearly

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.98)
-12-
clearly expressed stratification are already netibeable
But for the time being we have too little information
on the trend of development in this matter
There are many opportunitiee for the Compunist
Party as regards revolutionary aotivity in the villagés,
but it should be openly admitted that the work done by
the Party in this respeot is still very insignifioant
and that the Party has much to do within the next few
months and weeks in order to make up for lost time.
The beginning of war has oyened up revolutionary prospeots
in Japan.
That is why every possible effort should be
made to make up for lost tine by organized political
activity in the villages.
All this refers also to the proletariat, to the
young Japanese proletariat which is the subject of the
most extortionate exploitation; it refers also to the
process of stratification among the proletariat.
Even in case the standard of living of the Japanese
proletariat were reduced to the level prevalent in
colonies, even then a certain part of the gain and
profit might fall to the lot of the labor aristooracoy,
the first signs of which are already in evidence there.
Why is it so important to emphasize this fact?
Because
the Japanese sooial-fascists are making use of the
illusion, with great advantage to themselves, that owing
to the war, part of the war profits is going to the
workmen, or at loast that the unemployed will have the
possibility of obtaining work.
our

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.98)
-15-
Our Japenese comrades should not underreto thds
demgogio propaganda of the social fasoiste.  rpexionce
has shown that the social fasotsts are perfeotly able
to fool the masses. And the ciroumatance that they
are the most genuine, the most reaotionary kind of
sosial fasoism that ever existed in the world, and that
they are supporting the cause of this predatory war
with absolute oandor, - this ciroumstanoe does not by any
means prevent them from simultaneously condueting highly
demagogio agitation and propaganda among the labor olass.
That is why one of the prinoipal tasks of our Party should
be to denounce and expose the social fasoists.
Let us now turn to labor legislation in Japan.
We are wont to exemplify utmost indigenoy by referring
to the situation of the workpeople in India under the
labor legislation existing there. The poverty of the
working people in Japan is still more terrible.
What
enormous possibilities present themselves to our Party
for stirring up vast masses of workmen by advanoing
so-called partial demands in this sphere!
The labor
masses in Japan oan look baok upon meny battles but
almost always their strikes have ended in partial
defeat.
Their viotories are few, but their fighting
spirit is all the greater. May we be confident that
under these objectively very favorable ciroumstanoes
the Communist Party will be genuinely adequate to its
tasks?
?On the one hand, it must indeed be admitted
that in the strugeleagainst war the Perty haa suocessfully
passed the examination, so to speak, having aoted as a
genuinely

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.98)
-14-
genuinely bolshevik party.
But on the other hand, the
Party is still exceedingly weak,
Why should we hide
thie faot? Why should we not admit that the best part
of our workers are thrown into the prisons, a considorable
number of them being the viotims of police provooetion?
This shows how little we have been on the alert in this.
matter.
The situation at present prevailing in the
trade unions is one of the best proofs that our organization
is exceedingly weak.
Our prinoipal task at the present
moment is to ponetrate into the trade unicn and into the
works and faotories, to take hold of the masses by
adequate organization and to bring them under the sway
of our bolshevik party.
The first thing to be done
is to do all in our power to strengthen the Party at the
individual enteprises and in the trade unions. In the
past our Party has been subjected to incredibly atrocious
persecution; but it should be said that in Japan this has
proved the furnace from which eventually true bolshevik
steel has come forth.
of course this was not by chanoe;
suoh heroism has been observed not only in the ranks of
the Party; and this genuine revolutionary fighting
spirit may be found also in the broad masses of the
laboring class.
Nor could it have been a mere chanoe
that our Japanese rarty has proved itself up to its tasks
in the struggle against war. All this, taken together,
is e guarantee that our Party will do its duty with honor
in the nearest future and that this will be of deoisive
importanoe for the revolutionary movement in Japan.
js/hs

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.99)
49
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
761.94/580
FOR
#188
FROM
Japan
Grew
-) DATED
Nov.5.1932
TO
NAME
REGARDING:
nti-Soviet propaganda in Japan. Article by Soviet ambassador
to Japan in which statement was made that there has been no
recent --.
tfv

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.94)
50
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00
894.00 P.B./59
FORDoapatoh174.
SEE .....
(.r.) DATEDHovbe.1..1932.
FROM .... Japan
B/50
1—1127
NAME
TO
REGARDING:
Japanese police are continuin their drive
aprinst communists and otr er ra ical elenents
monr tie laborers ani studerts.
hs

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.74)
1x.
LaDOR
1
he Japanose iice con cnine their drive agaimet
co wi t nt ther rdiel cimaents vmon the aborore a
studeuts.
rly in tber  benk rory wa
e  o so
1
k o 
r1 ons.
lniversity
for
i tic stivity.
rid
r
r1s ncd
P
ore
r
to irin
rr
v1.
theSunri
P
1r:1
th
11
th
nd er1
1
rorte to have
forre
in

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.92)
51
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
701.
#2165
SEE
FOR
894.00B/51
J.n. 13, 133
FROM
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
stonin o 
a  Coioto re ate.
toe

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.86)
Meic, Janary . L.
2166
Subject: Stonins of Japanome Logetlom by Commmmiata
The onorable
The eoretory t tate.
eshigon.
ir:
heve the honor to roport that, acoording to the
pross, the Japanose egation Im Maxioo City was stoned
by a group of communlutic studoate suring the might of
Jemuary J, lest, and toet u number of windowe were broke
on. he prese further reportes that on tne following
dny, Jenuery luth, a Jeoretary of the Japeneae Legetion
roported the imclaent to the Farolgn frics and thes
as a rosult the polico depertmast has orderod a apeolal
uerfeti
Under dute of Jonuary 1l, las, tho Japemese
Legesien trenamitted to tho Smbamey, es en emelesure
to

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.82)
to a note vorbelo, a copy of a eommaimsle meaifestés
mhiea is atated sos threwn inte the reliddhee of she
Legation on the pight of Jamuery 9. rate manlfeetee
e trapslmtion of whion is anolosed, mecuses Japem or
inmolent provooations egninst the U.e.s..I of msln
agaimst tho proletarint, soviet chime, etc., cnd alas
attucke corlcan cnd arliab imperiellom.
Respootrully yours,
J. ubon Clark. Jr.
Enclosure:
Treletlo of a eniresto.
900.5
J:B

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.76)
2166
TRANSL PIOD
Fexico, Jomuary 9. los.
J
ity.
..... al your insolont pro-
roc:tlons cnd preperations or ser - in ponnivamee witm
morle snpltaliatlo bun itry - tomarde tae oviet Smiom.
slllmrt the porsuoutlons or tho revolutlonary prolotarl
n movoment and th ferocious represslon damonstreted
in riehtful mesa craa f thousends of men. lanumoreble
poreonal sasassiuatlods ns centuries or i prisomment
cmoientloue rihter
sun or the Jap
151100
theee annlon
i perieliss whion, in sheir riwal inseress, do nos
hesitate t sev-atate the countrles of bolivle and
aregusy, eru olumbie, seekime to dras inte the
aleachter (taroun thsir respootive ageats within the
sovermbente exico anj ther countries or letin
meriee.
  L 
 RYA
TO.TOTTO BOLD
DETTI  TH J PNE  G 
SLAGE
  V 
LON ITH TME EHICAN D GLE NRALI

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.69)
O   2O   
LOMO LIVE THY OVIET UMIOM E ONLY FATHELAND
YeauslnLed by

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.87)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
TOKYO
EHD:
WRI:
SKP.
Division of
E/DEW
FAD EASTERI AFFAIRS
Lp ten No. ?.
SEB 11 1933
L. t: J  ry
ubjectou.
tatuin the
Preet of
over 1,000 1. td r uie  na the inoletment
erni ti on
rno.
uncoverea
894.00B/52
ind the
pre:tea
r ver ity
ung
moe thore
prected
y  veen produced.
dee :ree tn  much so-c led
1.
 ciry y prersionna at
R
FILED
iec. Apparently theo-
called radicalism in Japan is more a symptom of socia
unrest than a program of political revolution.
19
3

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.91)
FE
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
EE
Toky0, January 28, 1933.
AC
No. 275
Subject:
Comunis.
1335
DEPARTMENT OFSTATE
Yes No
CHECK
FOR DISTRID.1
Kiga
crupitcule
Nurtion
Ae
L
FED 11 1933
The Honorable
The Secr-tary of State,
C
 ()
To
Washington.
11/03
Sir:
The lifting of  press ban on J nuary 18th revealed
13
to the startled country e story of : wholes le roundun of
comnunists and "reds", in a series of raids. Lurid news-
peper accounts stated that thousands of arrests were made,
and that the "backbone of the movement had been broken"-
agsin. This report is based on police statements, press
articles and conversations with well informed Japanese.
The
MAR 1 3 193

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
The story of the recent roundup goes back to October
7, when the canital wis shocked by the robbing of a surburban
bank at Omori in broad deylight, in what was uncharitably
termed by the press " American style". The bandits were
soon caught, and their examination by the police revealed
that the crime had bee committed for the purpose of ob-
taining funds for an org: nization of communists, of wh ch
the robbers were trusted :gents. Further investigation
revetled the oresence of an orgtnization of communists and
sympathizers, known as the Third Janan Communist Party.
The police leurned that letders of this organization
ola ed to meet tow: rd the end of October at Atami, a
hot soring sp: neer Tokyo, with the object of nlanning
some d-ronstr tion on November 7th, the nniversary of the
hussiin revoluti n.
The observer c mot but fee sorrow for the transgressor
of Japanese law, for truly his way is hard und the authorities
are vigilant. By me:ns of : most elaborate plan, which
involved the moving of several detectives to Atami with
their families and impedimenta in order to appear to be
ordinary householders, the police le: rned the identity
and place of meeting of the plotters. In a thrilling raid
in the dead of night, protected by gas-masks and bullet proof
vests, more than a hunared policemen armed to the teeth de-
scended on what the press terms the communist "lair".
Eleven misercble young men were captured, said to be the
central figures of the party.
At the same time in Tokyo and elsewhere wholesale
arrests were made of known radicals and those who were
implicated by the confessions of previously arrested
persons. Reports of the number of persons arrested vary,
but

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
but the most reliable sources give the number arrested
between October 30 and J: nuary 10th as about 1,000. Ar-
rests in this case have continued until the present, it
being reported that the number indicted to date is about
150. These unfortunate persons will be held in prison
unti! for lly tried, nerhans several years hence.
The Embassy has reported on the comanist movement
in Japan from time to time. A brief outline of recent
events may serve as a convenient background at this point.
Comnunism first made its annenrance in Japan in 1921. An
embryonic organization wos soon suporessed by the police,
as was a second organiz tion formed in less. What is known
as the First Communist p: t., org:nized in l9?7, and its successor,
the Second Comrunist P rty, orgunized in lu:7-:8, were broken
up in March 1998 tnd April 19r9 resnectively by the wholesale
arrest of the leaders. Iarediately  fter April 1929, the
follovers of the arrested le ders, notably Yoshimichi Iwate,
Josuke Kazama, Yojiro Konno, Katsuichi Kuki and others began
the organization of a Third Communist Purty. From that time
until the fall of l93. there was little to indicate the presence
of any organized revolutionary group, except for occasional
arrests of propagandists or agitators in labor disturbances.
In the meantime the outbreak of the Manchurian affair in the
autumn of 193l with the subsequent complicated international
developments absorbed the attention of the entire nation.
To all appearances the activities of communistic elements
had subsided.
The formation of the new, or Third Communist Party,
took place early in l931, it is believed. By the end of the
year

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.97)
- 4 -
year some progress had been made in collecting the shattered
elements of the old party. The leaders seem to have expec-
ted the disoute over Manchuric t. lead to war between Japan
and China and even to & second world war. They believed
that war would offer iceal conditions for civil commotions
leading to a revolution :nd were in haste to secure funds
to finance their schemes. Hence the daring robbery at Omori
which largely led to their u doing.
In reviewing the recent communist develonments, Dr.
Washio, a well known publicist, seeks to prove that the
academic or intellectual character of the earlier movements
has been renlaced by a degenerated and criminal type of
organization vhich has now little more of a political program
than any other criminal groun. However that may be, the move-
ment has attracted a considerable number of intellectuals.
Notable tmong the men recently arrested ure Dr. Hajime
and Profescor Kinnosuke Otsuka of the Tokyo University of
Commerce; both noted scholars and writers. The public was
shocked to learn that Susumi Ozaki, : judge of the Tokyo
0
Local Court and another judiciary officer, Chosuke Sakamoto,
were among those arrested s members of the conmunist organi-
zation.
Among the list of arrested communists are the names
of a goodly number of university and higher school teachers,
lawyers, and salaried men of various stations in life. The
presence of a large number of young people, well bred and
educated including the sons and daughters of notably wealthy
persons among those arrested recently has caused much comment.
Some

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
Some of the Tokyo newsoapers place responsibility
for the 1:test communist movement on the 3rd International.
Until the findings of the judiciary in respect to this case
are published, if ever they are, nothing definite will
be known of Soviet comolicity. No Russians have been re-
ported as involvea in any way, nor has definite evidence
of Soviet id or money been produced.
The public, as reoresented by the Press, was shocked
but not greatly alermed by the communist affair. Frequent
arrests of communists in the past have ccustomed the public
to regard the movement as a kind ci hurty erennial growth
that is chopped dovan one year only to sprout egein. Anxiety
would I rgely be confined to the police authorities in this
case, were it not for the feture, nev at this time, of the
comolicity of so m ny wel! connected young people.
Much concern is exoresred by nost of the napers not
because of th seri usness of the movement, but on account
of the conditions that brecd such ideas. Unemployment,
oversupoly of young persons with higher  ducation, scandals
and negligence in high official positions, inequalities of
wealth :nd opportunity :re all blamed for a part in the cor-
ruption of national thought. Faced with these conditions,
the observers think, the young intelligentsia see too plainly
the faults of the present system and turn to the study of
destructive radical ideas. Once interested they are branded
as dangerous radicals and subjected to rigorous persecution
by the police authorities. The boy who, in other countries
would be only a "parlor nink" with an evanescent enthusiasm
for

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.98)
e
- 6 -
for pure theory, is turned into a genuine radical by
oppressive measures on the part of the police.
While deploring the error of the communists and
applauding the vigilance of the police, the press is almost
unanimous inu larinr that opnressive measures have failed
and must fail to uproot the movement. The following
quotation from the ASHI is renresentative and illumi-
nating- "We tre compelled to dmit, :fter repeated
wholesale police raids made on the communists over a
period of years, that mere oppression is not effective
to extirpate r dicalism. On the contrary oppression more
often th:n not gives a positive irpetus to such intrigues.
.....And now, hy is it that Japanese society, in con-
trast to that in other countries, siens to favor the growth
of radicalism? Why  ust so many competent young men be
converted so easily to the tenets of revolution? Reflection
on these cuestions convinces us that  y policy of control
by means of oppression is futile. The real source of all
these cvils is traceable to corrupt politics and defective
social systens due to absence of the proper ideals. Para-
doxical though it may sound, we believe that the most effective
guarantee &gainst the spread of communism is the freedom of
speech and thought".
This, to the Anglo-Saxon is hardly a novel idea, but
to Jananese it borders on the dangerous. Nowhere in the
world outside of Russia is so much official solicitude given
to public thought, and nowhere is control over radical ideas
more rigidly enforced. Undoubtedly oppression has forced
many

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
many students into the ranks of the radicals. There seems
at last to be general recognition of this fact. In talking
with Japanese recently, the writer has noted that reference
is uniformly made to the need of a wholesome safety valve
like the Hyde Park soap box forum.
Apparently the so-called r dicalism in Japan is more
a symptom of social unrest than a program of political re-
volution. Conmunism as such has very little appeal for
the Japanese. Japan is : country where loyalty and patriotism
are ingrained; where Government, lthough at present unduly
agitated at th moment by the "red menace", is normally
efficient und just; where the people have a tradition of
discinline and racial unity nd a decided respect for the
dignity of the individual mun. For the moment, however,
the energies of the Government ere directed to suppressing
any m nifestation of "radical thought".
Respctfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
800.B
WTT:r
Copy to Legation, Peiping
11
11
11
Riga
In quadruplicate to the Department.

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.99)
53
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00
FOR MEMORANDUM.
B53
893.01 Manchuria/920
SEE
(Sal1sbury ) DATED June 25.1933.
FROM
State Department
Division of Far
NAME
TO
Eastern Affairs
REGARDING:
Increase in communism in Manchukuo believed
to be preparing the way for an eventual
government un der Japanese communism.
hs

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.94)
THE LINDER SECRETARY
DEPARTMENT OR STATE
UFAHIMINI OAI
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Jaruary 2, 1934.
ERDT
8
SKH
Tokyo'8 despatch No. 596 of Novem-
her 29, 1933, 1s intended to supplement
and bring up to date Salisbury's series
of despatches on the communis tic movement
in Japan, the last of which was prepared
in May, 1932.
Salisbury cane to the conclusion
after stuaies begun as far back as 1926
that the communistic movement in Japan hau
comparatively few aunerents. He inuicated
in nis lust cespatch that the Japanese
police autnorities consiuerta tne movement
to be "coaparat ively insignificant" and
adued "Communism has also suffered something
of an eclipse by the increasing interest in
reactionism and so-called Japenese fascism
since the outbreak of the Manchurian affair".
Washington now reports that communism
in Japan is on the "wane" and that there
are many evidences of its "declining influ-
ence". He states that the decline of com-
munism an.ong students has been effected
primarily through educational campaigns
and he makes the interesting observation
that while Christian stuaents are partic-
ularly

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
vlarly susceptible to raaical arguments
due to the advanced social ideas of
Christianity, those of them with "the
informed Christian viewpoint" lent them-
selves effectively to combatting com-
munism.
With regard to the Ja anese people,
other than studente, who have been tinged
or influenceu by communism, Washington
finds that the reactionary military and
ascist societies have been the most im-
portant cause for the subsidence of radical
thought. These societies nave apparently
stolen the communists' thunder and are now
considered to be the "cnampions of the down-
troduen masses" against tne "privileged
classes".
Your attent on is urawn to the con-
cluuing paragrapn of the despatcn, in
whicn it is stated thet if a violent sociel
revolution takes place in Japan it will
eitner be commu istic in origin or brought
about by nationalistic reactionaries. I
have recently had occasion to say that
class distinctions, sucn as those which
exist even today in England, are unknown
in Japan. There are indeed distinctions
w hich arise from uifferences between indi-
viduals in rrpect of their wealth, influ-
ence

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-3-
ence and so on; but the idea that die-
tinguiened ancestry confers aistinction
on tre deecendant ana entitles nim to
privileges is present mong the Japanese
in only a rudimentary form. Every
Jananese, whether peer or peasant, claims
aist ineuisned ancestry, ena from tnis
rises a sense of equality among tre
Ja anese wich is varalleled, I believe,
only by tne sense of equality wnich exists
among Cninese.
Janan is already highly socialized,
and many socialistic ideas find ready
hospitality ir the Japanese mind, which
reing by trauitior communal and non-
individual, requires little adjustment
to accept the idea of a socialistic state.
Communism would require the disestablish-
ment of tne dynasty; and if economic causes
force the Japanese to abandon capitalism,
their choice :ill be, I preoict, national
socialism rather tnan communism.
20
EHD:HZD

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.96)
EASTERN EURAIRS
Despatch No. 596. COMFILLNTIAL. DEPARIMENT OF STATE
Late: Novenrer : 9, 1953.
JAN 2 6 1334
Subject:
Comnunism in Japan.
Summary:
comunism ir on the vane in Japan although the
sensational pub icity given to the frecuent
police rounc-ups of communists might lead the
E
c: sual Japanesc newspaper re: der to think other-
1
:ise. Its in"luence in the universities has de-
B
clinc :s a result of the ecuc:tional campaigns
c r uctec b corserv tive org nizat:ons, especially
the Christiars. Tic most important cause of its
8
subsidence in the country as a whole is the popu-
6
1 rity of the reactionery societies which promise
4
tue poor farmer thc some sort of relief that the
.00B/54
communist coes. Most of the industrial workers
hi ve lately been too prosperous to be interested
in com.unism.
Concern is felt by the authorities over the
effect vhich com unistic teacnings will have
upon Jepanese society in mocifying the tradi-
tional res ect for the Throne, assuming that no
sud en change in the form of government is brought
about.
AN
FILEBD
1931

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.91)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, November 29, 1933.
No. 596.
SUBJICT:
Comunism in Japan.
E/B
CONFIDLITIAL.
35
894.00B/54
C2
C
Division ol
Abe
PAS AFRS
DEC 19 1933
Department of State
44.
3
For
N1
282
M/DS
The Honorable
The Secret: ry of State,
Lashingtor.
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. AND
Sir:
with reference to this Embassy's despatch No.
615
of May 17, 195?, I have the honor to report on the more
receit developments in the communistic movement in Japan.
This Embassy is informed that the Home Office of
the Japanese Government, which is charged with the drive
JAN 26 193
against comnunists, considers the movement in Japan to
be on the decline at the present moment. As one official
expressed it to a member of my staff, -"Communism is now
at a low point in its cycle of development in Japan, but
it

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
it has its roots deep in the soil and may rise up again
at any moment". The view that its influence has waned re-
cently is upheld by persons known to this Embassy who are
not government officials but have access to reliable in-
formation on the matter. Even among the students, who
have been the principal supporters of communism in Japan
since the Worlc war, there are many evidences of its de-
clining influence.
The above information is surprising to many who have
followed the recent newspaper reports of anti-comnunist
drives by the police. hlthough the police have claimed,
several tines in recent years, thet they have driven the
comunist party out of existence, they show no signs of
letting u. on their anti-comaunistic activity. A year ago
they reporter that between fugust 1931 and August 1932 they
had arrested over  thousand persons connected with an at-
tempted reorgarizaticn of the party. of these, 55 were
students from uppper cluss families, - one, the son of a
viscount, and another the son of: professor. In October
193 they  rrested nine stucents of St. Paul's University
(American Episcopal) for publishing a communist paper. In
December last 50 men were arrested for attempting to hold
a communist meeting under the guise of ? funeral for a de-
parted comrade. On October 30, 1932 the police surprised
a large gathering at Atami and arrested 2,200 who were ac-
cused of planning to take advantage of the war in which
they were certain Japan would soon be involved, to overthrow
the present government and set up a new soviet state. To
finance this meeting a bank had been robbed and in trailing
the

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.98)
7
- -
the robber the police ran across their clue to the pro-
jected meeting. They have recently arrested 1669 members
of the Zenkyo (All-Countrywide Council of Japan Labor Unions).
On the day of writing this report a press ban was lifted
revealing that three judges of Japanese district courts
were arrested early this year and held guilty in prelimina-
ry exanination on charges of violating the Peace Preser-
vation Law throug partici ation in coamunistic activity.
They were all comparatively young men who had been in-
fluenced by connunistic th ught during their student days.
Incidentally it was also revcaled that 29,646 persons
were arrested in connection with radic:l movements between
the st rt of the anti-revolutionary camo ign in 1928 and
October :0, 193. Of tat total only 1: 47 were indicted.
It would t us seen that many who were arrested had no taint
of guilt t ali an the police wer forced to release them.
Liber ls deplore the nany arrests of the innocent and declare
that many young Japunese are driven to communism by police
persecution. most of the Japanese arrested come from mid-
dle and upper class families.
In spite of the above evi ence uncovered by the police,
it is believed by persons in a position to know what they
are talking about that the influence of communism in Japan
is not as strong as it used to be. The best opinion is
that the present trend away from conmunism has been brought
about largely by eruc tional campaigns. One social worker
has st ted to a member of my staff that communism was at its
height in the universities about 198. There had obviously
been an organized effort to spread its doctrines among
students and it had attained eminent success.
It is generally believed that communistic propaganda
was

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.99)
-4 -
was first started in the universities for the main pur-
pose of securing funds for the work among the proletariat.
Te scheme vas soon found to be worthwhile. Sons and
daughters of well-to-do f nilies joined and contributed
money for the furtherance of the cause in which they be-
lieved. Within the last week the Japanese press has carried
a story of the arrest of the son of a wealthy director of
an Anglo-Jananese commerciel firm. The boy was caught
selling securities to which his title was questionable.
The police finally traced tre ownership to the boy's father
and it develoned tont the son had stolen the securities
from his own father in order to obtain money for the com-
munstic cause.
Such success could not h: ve been attained in the Japan-
ese universities if th principles of comnunism did not
have a strorg appeal to the most intelligent Japanese stu-
dents. In this connection it is significant that the organi-
zation as been strongest in the Imperial University of
Tokyo where only the elite of the Japanese intelligensia
are admitted. The young man or woman studying the social
sciences finds it hard to believe the story of the divine
origin of thc Imperial Family and other traditions on which
rests present-day Japanese patriotism. In renouncing the
beliefs taught them by their parents it is not unnatural
that many of them turn to the other extreme and espouse
communism. Then the intolerant attitude of the authorities
often turns what might otherwise be only a temporary en-
thusiasm for a new idea into a bitter espousal of radicalism.
It is significant that in student discussions the
Christians have been the principal targets for the attacks
of

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
of the young communists. This is due artly to the fact
that in Japanese universities the Christians are organized
for the promotion of ser ous discussion and partly to the
social theories of the Christian students, which make
them suscentible to com unistic arguments. Five years
ago the Japancse student Young Men's Christian Association,
whose membership is about 10,000, initiated & militant
educational cmpaign to combat communism in the universities.
Summer conferences were organized at which communism was
the principal topic discussed communist students being
invited to attend.
Christian student representatives from
115 Japanese colleges heard heateu discussions and were
able to obtain the informe Christian viewpoint for use
in discussions with the communists ir their own universities.
The crisis was reached at th sum er conference of 1932,
when the communists, wno had always been encouraged to at-
tend, took over the control of the meeting and voted a
new agenda ano new officers. The police w:o had previously
been persuaded to leave the meetings unnolested then
stepped in an? arrested the raical leaders. Though the
plans of the Y..C.A. leaders were on the surface defeated,
the more informed opinion is that the communists over-
stepped the mark and that there followed a strong reaction
against them.
The Christian organizations were not alone in the
fight against communism. Other groups of Japanese were
equally aroused. Several conservative organizations start-
ed campaigns of anti-communistic education. All of them
had the backing and the cooperation of the government au-
thorities. The net result is said to be a marked decline

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
in the influence of the communists. Many believe that if
the police would adopt a more liberal attitude toward the
"pink" students ane the "parlor bolsheviks" the problem
of communism among students voul solve itself.
On the other han thinking Japanese of the older
generation are greatly concerned over the effects of the
success already attained by the communistic propaganda,
without regard to what its fortune may be in the future,
There have been created intelligent young heretics who do
not have the same respect for the traditions of Japan
which the mass of people have. The former may or may not
have retained their beliefs in communism but, having at
one time harhored " angerous thoughts", they are consider-
ed a potcntial menace to the present system of government.
The situation is mace more seri us by the fuct that the
jobs available for university grauates in Japan have
never during recent year: be en numerous enough to keep
them all occupied. Many rcmain unemployed and thus have
the time and the energy to express their dissatisfaction
with tne social system.
Although the educational campaigns are primarily re-
sponsible for the decline in the influence of communism
in the universities, a more important cause for its sub-
sidence in the country at large is the activity of the
reactionary
military and fascist societies. The in-
tellectuals who espouse communism have little influence
over the mass of people in the country districts. The
latter are intensely nationalistic and are more impressed
by propaganda spread in the name of patriotism. Their
economic condition is the worst. Many are, or have been,
on the verge of starvation and it would seem that they
would

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.99)
- 7 -
would therefore constitute fertile soil for communism.
On the contrary,they have been more influenced by the
reactionary societies.
It is significant that many of the economic theories
enunciated by the reactionaries are almost identical with
those gener: lly associated witn radicalism. The great
difference of course is that the reactionaries wish to
keep the imperial form of governnent. However, several
groups do approach com unism even in this respect in their
advocacy of depriving the Emperor of his extensive property
and wealth, ostensibly on the theory that earthly posses-
sions are in terial to the gods. The attacks of the re-
actionaries are directed gcinst the industrial leaders
and present-day statesmen who belong to the "privileged
classes" anc "profit t the expense of the masses". The
reactionaries have thus stolen the march on the communists
insofar as the country people are concerned and even among
other classes of the population where there are people
dissatisfied with present conditions. They are furthermore
supported by the Army  ich is largely recruited from the
country istricts. The recent trials of the army and
navy officers and the civilians who were involved in the
terroristic acts of the first half of 193? provided excel-
lent propaganda for the reactionary societies. They are
now considered the champions of the downtrodden masses
against the industrialists, bankers, politicians of the
present regime, and the "privileged classes".
Little has been mentioned above regarding the spread
of communism among Japanese industrial workers, the class
which

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.98)
-8 -
which in most countries is considered to be most susceptible
to such ideas. It must be romembered that the Japanese
industrial workers are : less important group politically
than the farmers. lespite the st rtling industrial expan-
sion of Japan during recent years the number of people
employed as laborers in the large industrial centers is
estimated to Le less than three-fifths of the number of
farming households. A great deal of manufacturing is
done in the country istricts where the viewpoint is pre-
dominantly gricultural.
However, the belief that communism is declining in
Japan applies t the f ctory laborers as well as to the
students. T former have lately been comparatively
orosperous  ue to the expansion of th: country's industry.
They are well  isciplined. For the most part, they have
not yot becone settled enough at their jobs to have developed
racicel group feeling. They find themselves better off in
the f ctories than are their brothers in the fields at
home. Furtnermore, the rural origin of many of them and
their truining often cause then to be more susceptible to
the argunents of thn reactionaries than to those of the
comaunists. This is especially true insofar as the latter
are university men and other intellectuals.
However, thoug communism among Japanese industrial
workers is not cons dered a vital problem at the present
moment, it would be wrong to assume that it has made no
headway. In all of the police round-ups industrial workers
have been present among the victims. The police report
that the members of the Zenkyo who were recently arrested
included workers from the industries of printing, chemistry,
textile,

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.98)
- 9 -
textile, foodstuffs, mining, metallurgy, electricity,
traffic, public engineering, comumunicat ons, lumber, and
arhor operation. it is undoubtedl true that attempts have
been made to convert the inustrial workers to communism
and that some suceuss as attained at first. However, it
is believed th't the novement is momentarily at its ebb
nere also.
Consider ble publielty as been given of late to the
"reform" of sev ral com unist leaders who were confined
in prison. The first half-dozen who announced their re-
nuncition of comaunirt beliefs an their determination
to work in the future  gainst the communist cruse gave
plausible reasons for their about-f ce. They stated that
con unism is not adaptable to Japan; that it has little
catnce f  ppealing to ty wor! crs here. They praised
its theories but affirmed that it is too internat onal
for the Japanese workers. Tere was reason for believing
that they had changed their mines nd there was talk of
releasing then from prison on good behavior, even though
they were serving life sentences. However, much of the
effect of their "reform" w:s lost when others anrounced
that they also would refor: if they were released from
prison; that for suc consideration they would promise
to refrain from comnunistic acitivity though they could
not say that they had changed their minds as to the merits
of communism. The pub ic is now doubtful of the sincerity
of any of them and many believe that the first announce-
ments were made as a result of pressure or persuasion
from the authorities. The latter possibly hoped that it
would have a good influence on the public at large.
An

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.97)
-10-
An important element in the communistic movement in
Japan has always been the Koreans. A large proportion
of the workers for the cause have been of that nat onality.
Of the group of 1669 Zenkyo members who were recently ar-
rested, 926 were Koreans. Every police round-up draws
in some of them. It is understood that they are seldom
the leaders but the actual leaders tare advantage of the
Koreans' hostility to the Japanese an use them for work
among the laborers. It is generally the Korcans who make
up the stritingly large number of arrests periodically
announcej by tee police.
It is difficult to make any predictions regurding
the future of communism in Japan. Much depends upon the
life of the resent vave oi reactionism. If a violent
soci l revolution takes place in Japan, it will probably
come about through the efrorts of either the communists
of the Murxian type or the nationalistic reactionaries.
At the resent moment the latter seem the stronger.
Joseph C. Grew.
800.
SWii:g
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
R/A
JM

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00 P.R./72
SEE
FOR DesR#607
894.00
Japan
Grew
Dec.11,1933
FROM
) DATED
NAME
:27
B
55
REGARDING:
Communism in Janan: Information has been made public
that during the eriod,February thro gh Novemoer,1933,
1,696 persons have been arrested by the police,charged
with being radiouls.
fpg

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.84)
(c) Comaunism
8410r10
 press san Len h d existed sinc last February was
11rted

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.98)
-18-
lifted on the twentieth of the month and the informatiem
made public that uring that period 1,696 persons had beem
arrested by the police charged with being radieals, members
of the Zenkyo (All Countrywide Council of Japan Labor Umiom)
and engaged in the attewpt to overthrow the existing Gover-
ment of Japan.* The arrestec persons,who were taken in a
series of raids,have been accused of instituting general
strikes and demonstrat ons and ultimately aiming at the
est lishment of  roletarian ictatorship. The JAPAN TI
of November 3) gives the following statisties regarding the
number of sym athizers of the Japan Communistic Party who
have been placed un er arrest and dealt with by the Proeu-
rator's office of th Tokyo Listrict Court up Co October
20 of this year. The validity of these figures is not
vouched for, they are merely submitted as a matter of in-
terest:
1922 Merc 15 t Lecember 31 Numb r of persons ar- 1850
rested
1929
3567
1930
3787
1931
6908
193£
9212
1933 January to October 20
4377
It is interesting to note that anong those arrested and held
guilty in pr liminary examinat on were three judges of dis-
trict courts and five of their clerks.

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 16, 1934.
Tokyo's descatch No. 28 of December 28,
1933, encloses a clipping of an article in
translation which sets forth the views of
former Japanese communist.
In comentin on a previous despatch from
Tokyo, I expresseu the b lief that as the
Japales mind was communal and non-individualis
tic, it is receptive to socialistic ideas,
and t at if . ap n fcu  it necessary to modify
capitalism it would turn towards national
socialism rat er t an to ards communism.
The views of the former communist
quoted in te article seem somewhat vague,
but in the para raphs marked the Oriental view
of life is contrasted with the Cccidental.
The latter is described as emphasizing the
rights of the individual, while "the riental
view of life does not hold the individual as
suprene.......o the Japnese, the apanese
Enpire is the greater organic life.
-he
proper growth and improvement of this racial
family must be t e irst concern of the
Japanese people".
A…
L

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, December 28, 1933.
No. 628.
Subject:
Transmitting newspaper interview of
E/TFV
former comrunist leader.
MR. MOLD
4l
Noccry in JE
894.00B/56
2012
4
OFFHILN
MID
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
FILED
shington.
Sir:
With reference to my despatch No. 59 of Noveaber 29,
1033 entitled "Con unis in Japan", I h: ve the honor to
1/
enclose a cli ping from the JAPAN ADV RTISER of December
l, reporting n interview With r. Katsumaro Akamatsu,
a former communist le: der, in which he describes the present-
day netionalism of the Japanese labor movement. Mr. Aka-
matsu was the favorite pupil of the late Dr. Sakuro Yoshino
and was at one time one of the most prominent leaders in
the

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.95)
7
- 2-
the communist movement in Janan. The views now
enunciated by hin may, or may not, be his real
beliefs but at any rate they represent the present
trena of redical thought among the members of the
Japanese prol t riat.
Respectfully yours,
Enclosure:
Newspaper
clipping us stated.
Joseph C. Grew.
800.
SWV:r
Copy to Legation, Riga.

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No
to despatch
The Japan Advertiser, No628 oec. 2833 from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
Tokyo, Tuesuay, December 19, 1933.
JAPANESE LABORERS
movement of a nation go hand in hand,
"The industrial policy and the labor
is true with capitalists.
from class consciousnes.
and industrial prosperity or depression
reflects upon labor proportionally. The
"Liberaliam is a school
Principle ef Lábe
TURN NATIONALISTIC
labor iterest runs parallel with nation-
al interest, instead of conflicting. This
which began to spread in
is true in all nations of the world.
the 18th century. It respects
and the Ottawa conference, recogniz-
dom of individual in all walk
Unión Chief Outlines Reasons
ed a resolution to that effect in very
definite terms. For the same reason.
ing the truthfulness of that fact. adopt-
thing like a business concern.
the state is not a great or
above individual . It
According to this school 
Why Internationalism Can-
we cannot help recognizing the inde-
for the convenience of iridivio
pendence of Manchukuo in the Japa-
sons. Liberalism is the We
not Succeed in Japan
nese national interest.
of life. Capitalism is a ma
"We have come to a realization that
of liberalism in the economic
a well-being of laborers cannot be ex-
life. resulting in the control of
RACIAL SYSTEM DIFFERENT
pected without the well-being of na-
by capital. The so-called
tional industry. A great deal has been
control by labor organization
土
said during the last decade about the
cry of laborers against capitalit
Says American Labor's Anta-
conflicting interests of the bourgeois
and the proletariat, the latter regard-
"But the Oriental view of f
gonism to Japanese Workers
ing the former as an enemy, but we
not hold the individual as sup
Proves Point of Claim
now realize that national interest is of
supreme importance over and above
and find the significance of in
life by sacrificing the indiviu
recognizes the existence of gre
that of the bourgeois or proletariat.
for the growth and improven
More than 95 per cent of the labor
proletariat may get the upper hand.
In their struggle. the bourgeois or the
that greater life. To the Jap
people, the Japanese Empire
unions in Japan have become nation-
but a decline of the industry of a na-
alistic, renouneing the ideal of the in-
tion will bring ruin to both. This
into being spontaneously, constitu
greater organic life which was br
ternationa! labor movement and other
idea has been penetrating Japanese
a great racial family. The
radical principles. according to Mr.
labor more and more deeply. with the
result that more than 95 per cent of
growth and improvement of this 
family must be the first concern f
Mr. Katsumaro Akamatsu. chairman of
Japanese labor organizations have be-
Japanese people. We have been l
the board of directors of the Koku-
come more or less nationalistic.
astray from this view of life by
min Kyokai-the People's Association—
View Is Changed
penetration of Western liberalim, 
and the president of the Nihon Tei-
shin Jugyoin Kumiai-Japan Mailmen's
istic organization is typical. The
Party was converted into a national-
"The way in which the Social Mass?
the time has come when we ho
return to our proper course.
"The conception of bourgeols
Union. This development. says Mr.
party strongly opposed the independ-
trol or proletarian control of indu
Akamatsu. is due chiefly to the realiza-
ence of Manchukuo at first, but it has
is a child of liberalism. To whom d
tion of labor leaders that the interna-
radically changed its view, now de-
this right of industrial control beleng
fending it in the interests of Manchu-
to from the viewpoint of Japapee ne?
tional labor movement is a dismal fail-
rian people and Japan. The party
tional spirit? To the Japanese 
ure.
lcaders realize that damage to Japa-
ple. the Japanese Empire is the su
Mr. Akamatsu was one of the influen-
nese national interests is bound to re-
reme existence, and industry is an
tial labor leaders of Japan. identifying
sult in a damage to labor interests."
portant part of its national actlvit
Mr. Akamatsu thinks there could be
The right to control the national t
himself with the General Federation of
no class war if laborers and capitalists
dustry belongs to the ruler, who
Labor as a member of the central exe-
fully comprehend what is meant by
rights of sovereignty is clearly de
cutive committee. The social Democ-
true national interest and cater to it
ed in Article 1 of the Japanee
ratic Party. with the General Federa-
for their own well-being. Japanese
stitution, instead of belonging to bour
tion of Labor as its main support. un-
laborers and capitalists, he said. must
geois or proletariat. The subordk
derwent a split about two years ago.
recognize that all conditions of their
lives are governed and regulated by
tion of labor and capital interestt
the national interest is thoroughly in
when Mr. Akamatsu and a large num-
the condition of the Japanese nation,
keeping with the fundamental prim
The secessionists organized a proletari-
an political party with Mr. Akamatsu
as the leader. Since that time. how-
ever, Mr. Akamatsu has become more
most of his time as lecturer on the
ber of his followers left the party, re-
pudiating the international labor ideal.
confirmed in a nationalistic view of
labor and finally decided to devote
national interest to improve their lot.
such an attempt is sinply a piece of
nonsense. The capitalst on the other
and they must strive to promote the
overthrow capitalism in co-operation
with labor movements in foreign coun-
tries in observance of Marxism. but
tinued Mr. Akamatsu. "attempted to
"Japanese labor organizations." con-
ciple on which this nation
an organization of the Emperor forth
promotion of social life, just a
tion of national security. As the lab
founded.
tional spirit, the labor union must b
military organization is for the psomo
"From consideration of Japanese n
The Part of Labor
Japanese national spirit for the promo-
hand has been inclined to cxploit labor
organization has been fighting a
tion of the nationalistie labor move-
for his own selfish motives. In de-
the oppression of capitalism, me
ment.
fense against such exploitation, labor-
of the organization have been
Many Adopt Belief
ers formed organizations to upset capi-
think that their union is an o
"I have been convinced." said Mr.
talism for their own closs interest. in-
Akamatsu in an interview with a re-
stead of fighting agrinst the exploita-
In England, which is the birth
presentative of The Japan Advertiser.
tion as a means to promote the national
of the labor movement, the
"that internationalism in the labor
movement is a dismal failure. Many
interest.
"Marxism merely emphasizes the
class organ, whose prineipal fune
union may be regarded
labor leaders have been aware of that
class ( onsciousness of laborers, but what
tion is to defend and
fact, and I only played the part of a
Japanese laborers need is a conscious-
the living condition of
pioneer in giving expression to this
ness as industrial workers of Japan.
In a country like England, where
thought by revolting gainst the in-
The necessity of defending the living
ternational ideal of the Social Demo-
cratic Party. Japanese labor as a
condition of laborers must spring from
the national consciousness instead of
the labor movement was neces
whole maintains no relation with the
but it is absurd for Japanese la
labor of foreign countries. All the
to copy the British labor method
relation we have with foreign labor is
cause their guiding national spirit 
in Japanese labor delegations to the
tally different from that Enghih
League of Nations and in the fact that
alism. The first and feremost
the Marine Workers' Union belongs to
of Japanese labor union is 
the International Labor Federation at
ruler for the development
Amsterdam. The international ideal of
industry, and the defen" of
aborers as a class is practically im-
ing condition of laborers
possible. The fact that labor of the
taliam should be held 
United States is excluding Japanese
consideration, being a me
tideal of international labor. At any
labor indicates the bankruptcy of the
plish the first mismiom.
!rate, Japanese labor receives no beneft
from the international labor move-
ment.

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.98)
57
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
804.00 P.R./73
Despateh #656
SEE
FOR
894.00 B/57
Japan
Grew
Jammary 9,1934
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Twenty nine reds have been arrested in Korea and 22 indicted
on charges of violating the peace preservation Law.Other
seven cautioned about their future conduct and dismissed.
esp

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.92)
a
NotaonComanim
A press ban was resently lifted in Korea and is ms
disclosed that p9 reds har been arrested there of whem
£: had been indieted on charges of violating the pease
preserv tion law. Te r main g seven were eautioned
about their future conduet en diamissed. Aecording to
the wuthoritles the offenders, whs we'e teachers, put a
reverse interpretstion upon textbooks in an attempt to in-
fuse racial  rejudice an com unim into the minds of the
students. In Osaka too five young teachers of primary
schools wer: r cently placed vnr'er examlnat:on by the po-
lice an: det ined for having established an institute of
r  ical free e uc tion with the "Proletarian Artists' Lee-
ue".

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
54.00B/58
NOTE
761.94/734
#24
SEE
FOR
U.S.S.R.
Bullitt
Apr.16,1934
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Communim in Japan. Growth of -.
tfv

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.94)
59
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
711.61/503
327
894.00B/
SEE
FOR
Turkey
Skinner
July 14, 1934
FROM
) DATED
Xxxx
NAME
5
6
REGARDiNG: the report of General Mazaki at the meeting of the Japanese
League for the Struggle Against Communiam, held on March 26, 1934, at
Tokyo, Japan.
dew

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
761.94/933
FOR
#424
894.00B/60
FROM .....Harbin
(LaMont
...) DATED
0ct..8..1936
TO
NAME
1--1127
REGARDING: Anti-Soviet propaganda of the Kwantung Army: encloses copy
of despatch No. 269 to Embassy at Peiping transmi tting copy
of lecture entitled "Prospects of War between Japan and The
Soviets" which was delivered in Harbin by a Ukrainian before
a group of Ukrainians.
09
