894.42 Japan, Education. Correspondence Schools., March 4, 1945 - March 29, 1948 (File 1623), part 1 of 2
ID: 894.42-1623-1   Pages: 335   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.42-japan-education-correspondence-3/894.42%20Japan%2C%20Education.%20Correspondence%20Schools.%2C%20March%204%2C%201945%20-%20March%2029%2C%201948%201623-part-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
894.42/3-445
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Requesting informetion on post-war educetion in
Germany and Japan.
994.42/3-445
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
Dated
Mar. 4, 1945
Froml Sondak, Irving M.
Toxx
862.42/3-445
File No.
U. S. GOVERNNENT PRINTING OPFICE 1-1840
vt

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Int'ormation on closing of schools in Japan.
9442
13-214
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
AGM/472
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)
From
Bern
DatedMar.21,1945
Toxx
840.50/3-2145
File No.
eme
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1-1540

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.93)
Madrene Hall
Stanfard University, California
August 17, 1945
UNDER SECRETARY
Hon. Joseph F. Grew
AUG 20-1945
State Department
Washington, D. C.
Dear Hon. Mr. Grew:
We are a group of Nisei teachers of Civil Affairs
aus'eus
Training School at Stanford University are Americana to
find a place amongst ihe groups who are being sent to
Japan.
We have heard from American friends who have lived
many years in Japan of your unusual understanding of
Japanese psychology and of your kindly feeling toward the
country where you served for many years. Beceuse of
these things we have heard we have felt free to write
CSLE
you personally and ask you to advise us how to apply for
a teaching or social work positions. The fact that we
U
have been accepted by the War Depa rtment at Stanford Uni-
versity is, we are sure, all the credentials we need to
prove our sincerity and loyalty as American citizens.
Sincerely yours,
Telew Ban
Helen Ban
margaet Nakagawa
AUG 29 1945
Margaryet Nakagawa
PIUED
Geghmeat
BF
Alice Hamasaki
Sumnye Jegi mils
Sumiye/Sugimoto
matoke, Hure
Motoko I. Hirose

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
THE PENNSYLVANIA STATE COLLEGE
RECEIVED
DIVISION OF
SCHOOL OF CHEMISTRY AND PHYSICS
TAL SERVICES
STATE COLLEGE, PA.
DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICS
Oct. 25, 1945
NOV 2 11945
The Honorable James F. Byrnes,
motid ST13
Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Ref.:
894.92/10
Dear Mr. Byrnes:-
This is in response to your request sent to me through the
Honorable D. Emmert Brumbaugh of the House of Representatives
in which you asked for data on G. Asahara and Kotaro Honda.
G. Asahara studied in mission schools in Japan where he had a
good chance to get the typical "western" viewpoint. I first
ran across him in Schenectady, New York. At that time I was
a research physicist at the General Electric Research Labora-
tory and Asahara and Shoji Nishikawa were in the graduate
school of Cornell University. About 1918 these two men were
working in the chemistry department at Cornell on the dif-
fraction of x-rays by crystals and came to Schenectady to see
my work along similar lines. It seems to be the custom of
/10-2545
foreign scientists visiting in this country to try to get as
much information as possible and to give as little as possible
in return. Contrary to the usual custom they started out the
conference by telling of their own work at Cornell. I com-
plimented them upon their observance of the American"rule of
50-50". Asaharais reply was that he had studied with
Americans and English for so long that he had come to apprec-
iate their point of view. At the end of the conference I in-
vited both of these men to my home for dinner, telling them
that they were the first two Japanese I had ever seen who ob-
served the American rule of 50-50. In 1938 Mrs. Davey and I
had occasion to visit Japan and Drs. Asahara and Nishikawa
were most kind to us. They made it a point to help me to see
CS/VJ
as much as possible of the physics work of the University of
Tokio and of the Institute of Physical and Chemical Research of
Tokio. Of course, there was probably an element of "saving
face" in this because they felt under the necessity of re-
turning our hospitality, but, as nearly as I can judge,thei
expression of friendship had a very sincere ring. Duringur
visit Asahara mentioned the matter of strained-international
relationships to me at a time when Mrs. Davey was not witan
894.42
to the Japanese armed aggression in China. I said furthe
that if, instead, the Japanesehad confined themselves to economic
penetration the Americans would have admired them for being

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
Hon. James F. Byrnes
-2-
0ct.25,1945.
good business men. Dr. Asahara replied that he had favored only
economic penetration but that he had been outvoted. Later on
when I was out of earshot he approached Mrs. Davey on the matter
of "strained international relation". She gave him substantially
the same answer I had given him and in turn received from him
substantially the same reply.
At the time of our visit Asahara was in charge of the Japanese
Economic Exploitation of Manchucuo. He would fly from Tokio
to Manchucuo, stay there three days and fly back to Tokio for
the remainder of the week. He seemed to be interested not
only in mining and metallurgical work but also in increasing the
yield of crops in Manchucuo. He had just completed the purchase
from the Graham-Paige Co. of a complete set of manufacturing
drawings for their previous years model of passenger automobile.
It was my understanding that Asahara could not interview the
Mikado directly but that he could and did interview those men
in Tokio who were permitted to talk directly to the Mikado.
In-so-far as I am able to judge Asahara might prove to be of
definite assistance to General MacArthur's staff.
I first met Dr. Kotaro Honda when he visited the Research
Laboratory of the General Electric Co. at Schenectady, N. Y.
In accordance with the usual custom of foreigners visiting
American laboratories he tried to get as much information as
possible and give as little in return as possible. It was
only after a reference to the American rule of 50-50 that he
gave us any considerable amount of information. I next ran
across Honda at the Boston (1926) meeting of the American
Society for Steel Treating, (now called American Society for
Metals). At this meeting with tears streaming down his cheeks,
he begged for peaceful relations between Japan and the United
States. In my opinion he was "putting on an act". Honda is
one of the best, if not the best, research metallurgist in the
world. He is President of Tohoku Imperial University at
Sendai in Northern Japan. He is at the same time Director of
the Research Institute for Iron, Steel and Other Metals in
Sendai and is in charge of one of the research laboratories in
the Institute of Physical and Chemical Research in Tokio. His
research laboratory at Sendai is one of the best, (probably
the best), university metallurgical research laboratories in
the world. I visited his Research Institute for Iron, Steel
and Other Metals during my visit to Japan in 1938. I was
given a good look at the facilities of his laboratory but was
shotn as little of the details as possible. We were invited
to lunch at the Institute together with some of the high ranking
members of the research staff. The atmosphere at this lunch

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
Hon. James F. Byrnes
-3-
Oct. 25, 1945.
was very decidedly hostile. After lunch instead of continuing
the visit to the laboratory, we were put in an automobile and
shown some of the beautiful scenery on the coast north of
Sendai.
In my opinion Dr. Honda and his staff should be watched very
carefully. .They will appear to cooperate if they feel that
they are compelled to but from their attitude at the time of
my visit I believe that the cooperation will never be any deeper
than they feel is absolutely necessary.
In accordance with your request I am sending herewith my copy
of the Guide to the Institute of Physical and Chemical Research
dated 1929. This Guide gives the names of the members of the
staffs of the various aivisions of the Institute and the topics
on which they were doing research as of that date. In-so-far as
I can remember the various researchs which I was shown at the
time of my visit in 1938, these topics had not changed much
since 1929. I have taken the liberty of marking with a dash
those research topics which obviously have, or might have, a
military bearing and I have marked with an arrow those topics which
either are or could be of use in the study of atomic energy.
I am also enclosing a copy of the Conspectus of the Research
Institute for Iron, Steel and Other Metals, which contains a
detailed list of the staff of that Institute. An appendix
to the Conspectus is a list of the authors of various publi-
cations made by the Institute together with the topics on
which these authors have worked. It is my opinion that this
bibliography represents only that fraction of the work of the
laboratory which its staff feels can be made public.
Very truly yours,
WheelerP. Dovry
Wheeler P. Davey
nesearch Professor of Physics
and Chemistry

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.93)
ta reply refer to
A86 24 1945
My dear Miss Ban:
I have been asked, in view of Nr. Grew's retire»
ment to private life, to reply to your letter of
August 17, 1945, in which you and four of your friemas
inquire in regard to the pessibility of empleymems im
teaching or social work in Japan.
In view of the fact that Allied autherity in the
early post-war period in Japan is to be exersised throwgh
military agenoies, it is suggested that you may wish t
direet your inquiry to the Civil Affairs Divisiem of the
War Department.
Sineerely yours,
ERD
DE
Erle R. Diekover
Chief
Division of Japamese Affairs
V
Hiss Helen Ban,
Madrene Mall,
Stanferd University, Califermia.
JA!WTurner:mls
FEGA
8-22-45

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.77)
bl
Da reply refer to
AD0
y dear . n
7
The eeretary of ar bee referred to thée Depart
E
mont your ls: tr as Jnary 22, 19ss comeermng the
8
Ing the advisary (roup to Japam.
2
The adviecry pour mill iodluse appremly
eymbre w foere woe h Toprt
af tte h dd t wto this rop the
sashingten und an edult adueati on leader trom Atlentas
Doargia.
1.
  persormlly in ecmplete agremm with the
prposes or your Committee em somem im sarld Affmirs.
Last year twe t  m corporatione wore hoaddby
wme lll way life Y have belleved that we are fuat
I io you will not hositate to svise  lm
ruture on sy opportumltles you sou "or te batter mo
naeroly yours,
CC1
W1illam nton
11olo
  onn d 
27
/4
evlee
2/15/00
anaonrke

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.93)
191945
No. 1 7
To the
Acting United States Political Adviser to the Suprems
Commander fer the Allied Powers, Tekyo.
894
The Secretary of State transsits herewith fer the inferm
tien of the Acting United States Political Adviser copies of n
exchange of correspondence between the Department and Prefesser
Wheeler P. Davey, The Pennsylvania State College, in regard to
certain Japanese personalities and concerning two Japamese
English-language publications which it is possible yeu will
wish to obtain for reference.
CS/LE
nCR
NE Unite
"na
Re
Oat.
Dist
Enclosures:
As stated above.
894042/10-2545
CR
NOV 14 1945P.M.
OV 16 1945P.M
11-8-45
FC:PFCherP:CM
Hq

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.82)
DATE:
FROM :
Thogo Rufath # 49-
SUBJCT :
you will be intemated in glanning
thog the eoe. If you have
tind, you should wad the
second imloome AG 350-SCAPordn
 faanie gorl, on Edmaton. It is
considund ly the CIE Dvisio - Too
as the  f edmt or.
H03

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.92)
ar 10, 1945, from the Acting
Commander for the Allied
Enclosure No.l to Des
lon of Memorandum on
United States Politid
mber 8, 1945".
Powers, Tokyo, Japan
Bducational Affairs
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
DEC171945
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, Japan, Movember 10, 1945.
42 A 
UNRESTRICTED.
NO. 49.
20u
SUBJECT: Transmission of Memorandum on Educational Affairs in Japan,
aene
October 1 to November 8. 1945.
HA
225
34
19A
114
REAED
DIVISION GR
The Segretary of State,
1945
3
894.42/11-1045
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to transmit, as of interest to the Department,
Cn
a memorandum prepared by a member of the staff of this Office on the
subject: "Educational Affairs in Japan, October 1 to November 8, 1945".
The memorandum describes the principal directives relating to
education issued to the Japanese Government by the Supreme Commander
or the Allied Powers, mentions the cooperative attitude of the Japanese
authorities, and includes a selection of comment from the Japanese
CS/LE
press indicative of a general interest in educational reforms.
Respectfully yours,
Srens Ao henuer
Recording Desk
George Atcheson, Jr.
Enclosure:
Memorandum -- "Educational Affairs in Japan,
October 1 to November 8, 1945".
MAR 7. 1946
Original and ozalid to Department.
FULED
842
KCLeebrick:ms
OCi
3.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 49 of November 10, 1945, from the Acting
United States Political Adviser to the Supreme Commander for the
AAlied Powers, Tokyo, Japan, on the subject "Transmission of
Memorandum on Educational Affairs in Japan, October 1 to Movember
8. 1945".
MEMORANDOM
EDUCATIONAL AFFAIRS IN JAPAN
October 1 to November 8, 1945.
1. Three directives concerning education have been issued to the
Japanese Government by the Supreme Headquarters for the Allied Powers.
"Administration of the Educational System of Japan"
(October 22, 1945).
"Violation of Religious Freedom" (October 24, 1945).
"Investigation, Screening, and Certification of Teachers
and Educational Officers" (October 30, 1945).
Copies of these directives are attached to this memorandum.
In addition, the directive of October 4, 1945, on the subject
"Removal of Restrictions on Political, Civil, and Religious Liberties".
has general reference to educational policies and objectives. This
directive was transmitted to the Department under cover of Despatch
No. 2, October 8, 1945.
2. The three educational directives listed above may be
characterized as follows:
(a). The first states the general concepts and policies. Courses
of inatruction are to be examined and revised to eliminate the dissemina-
tion of militaristic and ultra-nationalistic ideology and also military
education and drill. The objective of the educational program is to be
the inculcation of concepts and the establishment of practices in harmony
with representative government, international peace, the dignity of the
individual, and such fundamental human rights as freedom of assembly.
speech, and religion.
It was directed that the personnel of all edncational institu-
tions be screened.
(b). The third, as listed above, gives more detailed instructions
regarding

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
一 2 
regarding the elimination from the educational system of Japan of
"those militaristic and ultra-nationalistic influences which in the
past have contributed to the defeat, war guilt, suffering, privation
and present deplorable state of the Japanese people.:......". The
Japanese Ministry of Education is requirod to set up the machinery to
attain these ends and to submit its plans for complying with this
memorandum.
(c). The Nippon Times, November 3, 1945, printed a clarifying
statement from Colonel Ken R. Dyke (Chief of the Civil Information and
Education Section of Supreme Headquarters). The article states that
instructors now teaching and not known to be militaristic or ultra-
nationalistic will remain at their posts pending screening. No whole
sale dismissal of instructors was intended. Teachers who had served in
the armed forces, but who are not career military or naval personnel
will not necessarily be dismissed or barred from employment.
The second above, "Violation of Religious Freedom", refers
to "certain acts on the part of officials of educational institutions,
founded and supported by Christians of foreign nations, which represent
inexcusable and unjustifiable subversion of such institutions to
militaristic and ultra-nationalistic ends".
It refers to the situation at Rikkyo Gakuin (St. Paul's
University and Middle Schools). It directs the Japanese Government to
dismiss immediately the president and other officials and professors
named. The memorandum directs that "Rikkyo Gakuin be reorganized and
It is required that a survey be conducted of "all educational
institutions in Japan which were founded and maintained by missions on
public contributions of Christians of foreign nations". A report was
required by 15 November 1945. A list of institutions to be surveyed is
furnished.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
furnished. Eighty two institutions are listed. The list is stated
to be suggestive but not inclusive.
(a). The general directive of October 4, "Removal of Restrio-
tions on Political, Civil, and Religious Liberties", is a five page
document which was issued to abolish restrictive legislation, disband
harmful organizations and to make possible the development of freedom
of speech, of press, and the development of representative institutions.
Its provisions give the general background for the revision of Japanese
education.
3. The cooperation of the Japanese Ministry of Education and of
school authorities is on the surface complete. They seem anxious to
comply with the requests and suggestions of the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers.
4. Clippings from newspapers show considerable general interest.
Nippon Timee. November 5: "Clean up of schools Set by
Government". This is a sympathetic discussion of the
directive of October 30.
Asahi Shimbun,November 2: "There is urgent need for
Educational Reform".
Nippon Times, November 1: Mitsuoke KAkIHU, writing on
suffrage for women, urges coeducation.
Lomiuri-Hochi,October 24: States that there is a ferment
of democratic ideas and that demands for change are
coming from inside various institutions, including schools
and newspapers.
Other news stories bear out this statement. Examples are
the following:
Asahi-Shimbum,October 19: A group of students at Waseda
University were reported in conflict with President
AGANO over the preferences granted to Army and Navy cadets.
The students held a mass meeting and presented a resolution.
Nippon Times. November 1: Quotes Salaro ISHIWATA of the
Peers School that it has been decided to open the schools
were cooperating and thatnew text books were being approved.
Lippon

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
Hippan Times. November 3, 1945: The Tokyo University of
Industry (formerly Tokyo University of Commeroe) is try
ing democratic procedures. The student body requested
the return of a member of the faculty. The students were
forming a Student Consumers Union to take over food and
lodging problems. The students voted for the strengthen-
ing of the seminar system, and for closer relations with
the faculty. There were sim reports of students strikes
in various schools for shorter study hours and longer
weekends to go home because of the insufficiency of food.
Student strikers also were interested in the election of
heads of classes, the dismissal of certain school officials
and teachers, the return of dismissed teachers and for the
establishment of courses on civics and democracy.
Nippon Sangvo Keizal, November 4, 1945: The Economics
course in Tokyo Imperial University will be reorganised;
dismissed professors are being recalled and other professors
have resigned.
Yomiuri-Hochi, October 5, 1945: Urges that all incompetent
professors be dismissed not only for ideological reasons
but also for incompetence. The opinion was expressed that
reform of the imiversities cannot come from the administra-
tion, the faculty nor from the students. It was urged that
the public should enter into the discussion of educational
reforms and that public members should serve on the committees
considering reforms.
Three articles by Eiichi NICHIZAwA have appeared in the Hippon
Times. November 6, 7 and 8, under the title: "Education in the Past
Marked by Government Interference". They seem significant enough
to be attached.
The Qkuyama Translation Service. November 3, 1945: quotes
Premier Shidehara's speech in the Conference of Prefectural Governors,
November 2, 1945, as follows: "To respect freedom and promote the
rights of the people is the essential of our people's politics and the
realization will form the basis of the rehabilitation of Japan".
"What would form the foundation of such political system is re-
novation of education; anti-foretgn ideas or an idea of narrow-minded
self-complacency should be got rid of; and education aiming at the
completion of the self and service to the people and society should
be

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
5
be established".
Karl C. Leebrick.
Enclosures: (Transmitted in single copy only).
1. SCAP directive, October 22, 1945-- "Administration of the
Educational System of Japan".
2. SCAP directive, October 24, 1945- "Violation of Religious
Freedom".
3. SCAP directive, October 30, 1945- "Investigation, Screening.
and Certification of Teachers and Educational Officers".
4. Series of three articles from Nippon Times, November 6-8,
1945, "Education in the Past Marked by Government Interference",
by Eiichi NICHIZAWA.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
EXTRA COPY
OCT231945
OFFICE OF THE SUPREME COMANDER
FOR THE ALLIED POWES
AG 350 (22 Oct 45) CIE
22 October 1945
MEmORANDUM FOR: ILPE.IAL JAPANESE GOVERNMENT.
THhOUGH
: Central Liaison Office, Tokyo.
SUBJECT
: Administration of the Educational System of Japan.
1. In crder that the newly formed Cabinet of the Imperial Japanese
Government shall be fully informed of the ob ectives and policies of the
occupation with regard to Educaticn, it is herehy directed that:
a. The content of all inst uction  ill be critically examined,
ievised, and controlled in acccidance with the folloving policies:
(1) Dissemination cf militaristic and ultra-nationalistic
ideclogy will be prchibited and all military education
and drill will be discontinued.
842
(2)
Inculcation of concepts and establishment of practices
in harmony vith representative government, international
peace, the dignity of the individual., and such fundamental
human rights as the freedom of assembly, speech, and
religion, will be encouraged.
b. The pe: sonnel of all educational institutions will be inves-
tigated, approved or removed, reinstated, appointed, reorientated, and
supervised in acccrdance with the following policies:
rapidly as possible und all career military personnel,
persons who have been active exp nents of militarism
and ultra-nationalism, and those actively antagonistic
to the policies of the occupation will be reroved.
(2)
Teachers and educational officials who have been dis-
missed, suspended, or forced to resin for liberal or
anti-militaristic opinions or activities, vill be declared
immediately eligible for and if properly qualified will
be g'ven preference in reappointment.
(3)
Discrimination against any student, teacher, or
educational official on grounds of race, nationality,
842
-1-

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
creed, political opinion, or social poeition, will be
prohibited, and immediate stens will be taken to correct
inequities which ha'e resulted from such discrimination.
(4)
Students, teachers, end educational officials will be
encouraged to evaluate critically and intelligently
the content of instruction and will be permitted to
engage in free and unrestricted discussion of issues
involving political, civil, and religious liberties.
(5)
Students, teachers, educational officials, and public
will be informed of the objectives and policies of the
occupation, cf the theory and practices of represen-
tative government, and of the part played by militaristic
leaders, their active collaborators, and those who by
passive acquiescence comritted the nation to war with the
inevitable result of defeat, distress, and the present
deplcrable state of the Japanese people.
c. The instrumentalities of educ: tional processes will be
critically examined, revised, and controlled in accordance vith the follow-
ing policies:
(1)
Existing curricula, textbooks, teaching manuals, and
instructional meterials, the use of vhich is temporarily
permitted on an emergency basis, will be examined as
rapidly as possible and those portions designed to pro-
mote a milita:istic or ultra-naticnalistic ideology will
be eliminated.
(2)
New curricula, teytbcoks, teaching manuals, and in-
structional materials..designed to produce an educated,
peaceful, and rcspcnsible citizenry vil? be prepa:ed and
will be substituted for cxisting materials as rapidly as
possible.
(3)
A normally operating educational system will be 1e-
established as rapidly as possible, but where limited
facilities exist prcference will be piven to elementary
educ tion and teacher training.
2. The Japanese Ministry cf Education will establish and maintain
adequate liaison with the a propriate staff section of the Office of the
Supieme Commander for the Allied Powers, and upon request will submit
reports describing in detail all action taken to comply with the provisions
of this directive.
3. All officials and subcrdinates of the Jepanese Government affected
by the torms of this directive, and all teachers and schocl officials,
bcth public and private, will be held personally accountable for com-
pliance with the spirit as well as the letter of the policies enunciated
in this diiective.
FOR THE SUPI.EME COMMANDER:

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosire No. 2 to Despatch No. 49 of November 10, 1945, from the Acting
-United States Political Adviser to the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers, Tokyo, Japan, on the subject "Transmission of Memorandum on
Educational Affairs in Japan, October 1 to November 8, 1945".
OCT271945
AG 000.3 (24 0ct 45) CIS
24 October 1945
MEMORANDUM FOR:
IMPERIAL JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
THROUGH
Central Liaison Office, Tokyo.
SUBJECT
:
Violation of Religious Freedom.
1. The attention of this headquarters has been directed
to certain acts on the part of officials of educational in-
stitutions, founded and supported by Christians of foreign
nations, which represent inexcusable and unjustifiable subver-
sion of such institutions to militaristic and ultra-nationalistic
ends.
2. The case of Rikkyo Gakuin (St. Paul's University and
Middle School) is cited as a specific example of such flagrant
violation of religious freedom and unwarranted vandalism.
a. Originally founded in 1874, Rikkyo Gakuin was given
a charter on 7 July 1931 by the Japanese Government. Articles
840.4
of the Act of Incorporation state "the object of the Zaidan is
to administer education in Japan in accordance with the prin-
ciples of Christianity . . ."
b. In 1943, certain officials of the university,
ignoring their oblig tions to maintain a Christian institution
of learning, did, without provocation and with or without the
approval of the Ministry of Education, abolish Christian
services and teachings; caused the removal from office of
Christian members of the faculty and the Board of Directors, and
caused to be committod acts of vandalism in All Saints' Memorial
Chapel and against other property of the university. Christi-
anity was abolished by order in Rikkyo and the university Chapel
was closed in January 1943.
3. No action has been taken by university officials or by
the Ministry of Education since the termination of the war to
rectify this violation of freedom of religion and of moral trust.
4. The Imperial Japanese Government is directed immediately
to:
a. Dismiss from their present positions, the following
officials of Rikkyo Gakuin:
(1)
Kinzo Sambe, President (Socho)
(2)
Hidesaburo Hoashi, Dean (Gakkan) of the
University and Principal of the Middle
School

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.98)
(3)
Soichi Tsuji, Dean of the Yoka bu
(4)
Hisckazu Kaneki, Student Inspector
(5)
H. J. Miyazaki, 'Student Inspector
(6)
Atsuo Ozawa, Student Inspector
(7)
Ryo Shibata, Student Inspector
(8)
Ko Ogata, teacher, former Student Inspector
(9)
Captain Wada, Acting Dean, Science Department
(10) Yasuo Muto, Librarian
(11) Miotaro Abe, Teacher, former Student Inspector
b. Direct that none of tho individuals designated in
paragraph 4a be rc-employed or placed in any position in any
public or private educational or religious institution or in any
government rosition,
c. Direct thst Rilkyo Gakuin be reorganized and hence-
forth conducted in acccrdance vith the Articles of Incorporation.
d. Dirret the conduct of a survey of all educational
institutions in Jopt, which were founded and maintained by
missions or pubiic coitributions of Christians of foreign nations
end deliver to this herdcuarters not Jater than 15 November 1945
a detailed report cevering the fellowing:
(1)
Nomo ond location of institution.
(2)
Lict of all officials or faculty removed from
office during the wrr, with reasons for
removal.
(3)
List of individuals appointed or employed as
renlacements for individuals listed above
(par d(2), and the circumstances leading to
their appointment.
(4)
Itemize rll changes made affecting Christian
worship and instruction.
(5)
Any rcts of vandaliem, destruction or damage
of the institutions's property, accompanied
by dctails as to when, by vhoin and why such
acts were committed.
The survey vill include, but not be limited to, the following
institutions:
Aoba Jo Gakuin, Sendai
Aoyema Gekuin Middle School, Tokyo
Aoyama Gakuin Shingakko, Tokyo
Aoyama Gakuin, Tokyo
2

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
Baika Joshi Sem mon Gakko, Toyohaka shi
Baiko Jo Gakuin, Shiminoseki shi
Chuo Shingakko, Kobe
Doshisha Daigaku, Kyoto
Doshisha Jo Gakko, Kyoto
Doshisha Middle Schools, Kyoto
Doshisha Shingakko, Kyoto
Eiwa Jo Gakko, Shizuoka shi
Eiwa Jo Gakko, Yokohama
Ewa Jo Gakko, Kofu shi
Fraser Institute, Hiroshima
Fuji Koto Jo Gakko, Shizuoka shi
Fukuoka Jo Gakko, Fukuoka shi
Futaba Koto Jo Gakko, Tokyo
Gyozei Middle School, Tokyo
Heian Koto Jo Gakko, Kyoto
Hinomoto Jo Gakko, Himeji
Hirosaki Jo Gakko, Hirosaki shi
Hiroshima Jo Gakuin, Hiroshima shi
Hokuriku Jo Gakko, Kanazawa shi
Hokusei Jo Gakko, Sapnere
Iai (Ei) Jo Gakko, Hakkodate
Joshi Gakuen, Kojimachi ku, Tokyo
Joshi Sei Gakuin, Tokyo
3

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.95)
Jochi (St. Sophia) Daigcku, Tokyo
Kinjo Jo Gakko, Nagoya
Kebo Colloge, Kobe
Kobo Jo Gakuin, Kobe .
Kobc Joshi Shingakko, Okadayama, Nishinomiya
Koran Jo Gakko, Shiba ku, Tokyo
Koto Jo Gakko, Aotanicho, Nada ku, Kobe
Kvansai Grkuin University, Kishinomiya, Shigai
Kwanto Galuin Middle School, Yokohama
Ywanto Gakuin, Yokohama
Kwasrui Jo Gakko, Nagesaki
Kyoni Jo Gakko, Maebashi shi
Eyoristsu Jo Gelke, Yokohama
Kyusiu Cn Hicdle School, Kumamoto shi
Fyushu Jo Gr Juin, Kumamoto shigai
Lorbuth Jo Grkmmin, Tennoji, Osaka
Lrtsuyema Hight Middic School, Matsuyama shi
Ietsuyama Pcun Jo Gakko, Matsuyama shi
Megumi Jo Gakuin, Omori ku, Tokyo
Meiji Gakuin, Tokyo
Miyagi Koto Jo Gakke, Sendti
Momoyama Hiddle Schoel, Osaka
Negoya Middle School, Nagoya
Hihon Seikokwni Shingakuin, Ikebukuro, Tokyo
Cho Koto Jo Gakko, Kumamoto shi
4

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
Poole Jo Gakko, Higashi mari ku, Osaka
Rikkyo Koto Jo Cakko, Suginami ku, Tokyo
Ryujo Hoboyoseiyo, Nagoya
Scibei Gakuin, 124 Maita machi, Yokohama
Sei Gakuin, Tokyo
Seikei Jo Galuin
Seinan Gakuin Middle School, Fukuoka
Seinan Jo Gaklo, Kekura shi, Fukuoka ken
Seishi Jo Gakuin, Ashiya, Hyogoken
Seishin Jo Gakuin, Tokyo
Shinzei Gakuin, Nagasaki
Shiriuri Koto Jo Gakko, Tokyo
Shoci Kyoikun Gakko, Kobe
Shoin Koto Jo Gakko, Kobe
Shokci Jo Gakko, Sendai
Soshin Jo Cakko, Yokohama
St. Joseph's College, Yokohama
St. Luk 's College of Nursing, Tokyo
The Romin Catholic Schools at Hakkodate and Sapporo
The Hom:n Cotholic Sehools for boys and girls at
Nagasoki
Tohoku Gakuin Middle School, Sendai
Tohoku Gakuin, Sendai
Tokyo Hobo Denshiyo, Tokyo
Tokyo Hoikyu Jo Gakuin, Tokyo
Tokyo Joshi Daigaku, Suginami ku, Tokyo
5

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
BASIC: Mono fr SCAP to Imperial Japanese Government, file AG Ooo.3
(24 Oct 45) CIS, subject: Violation of Religious Freedom.
Toyo Eiwa Jo Gakko, Tokyo
Wilnina Jo Gakko, Higashi ku, Osaka
Yamate (Ferris) Jo Gakko, Yokohama
FOR TE SUDREE COLMLDER:
H. W. ALLEN
Colonel, A.G.D.
6

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 49 of November 10, 1945, from the Acting
United States Political Adviser to the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers, Tokyo, Japan, on the subject "Transmission of Memorandum on
Educational Affairs in Japan, October 1 to Movember 8, 1945".
G 350 (30 Oct 45) CIE
30 Cctober 1945
MEMORANDULI FOR: THE IIPERLL JPNESE GOVERNLENT.
THROUGH
 Contral Licison office, Tokyo.
SUBJECT
 Investicstion, Serconing, and cortification of
Toccheis cnd Edtet icl officicls.
1. In order to elinincto fron tho educ: tional systen of Jepen
those militaristic cnd ultrc-nctionc.listic influcnces which in tho past
have contributed to tho dofect, wer guilt, sufforing, privation, and
prosent doplorcblo stcte of tho Jt.pthoso people, cnd in order to prevent
tho tecchers cnd educctioncl officicls heving militcry experience or
affiliction; it is horeby directed that:
a. ll persons wno cro known to bo militcristic, ultra-
nationclistic, or cntagonistic to tho ob jectivos and policies of tho
occupction cnd who aro ct this tino cctively e.aployed in the educational
systen of Jt.pen, will be removed irmodictely cnd will be berred fron
occupying cny position in the cducctioncl syston of Japen.
842
b. ll other persons now cctively enployed in the educctionc1
systen of Japen will be poritted to retain their positions ct the
discretion of tho Ministry of Educction until further notice.
c. ll persons who are members of or who have been
demobilizod fron tho Jcpcnoso militcry forces sinco the terminction
of hostilities, and who cre not ct this timo tctively cmployed in tho
educational syston of Japan, will be berred from occupying cny position
in tho educctionc.l systen of Japen until furtaor notice.
2. In order to detcrino which of those persons who cro now
actively cmployed in or who my in the futuro becomo candidates for
enploymont in tho educctional systom of Japan are unc.cceptable and
nust be romoved, btrred, cnd prohibited fron occupying any position
in the educctionel system of Japn, it is horeby dirocted that:
-1-

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.97)
 Ino Japnose Ministry of Education will stcblish auitabl
adrinistrative machinery and procedures for the offective investigati
screening, and certification of all present and prospestive tecchera and
educational officials.
b. The Japanese inistry of Education will . ubmit to thia
Hecdquarters as soon cs possible a coaprehensivo repot deseribing all
actions tcken to comply with the provisions of this directive. This
roport will contain in addition the following specifi: inforntion:
(1)  precise statement of how acceptat lity of the
individuel is to be determined, together with lists of
specific stendards which will govern the retontion,
removcl, appointment or ro-appointment of the individual.
(2) 4 precise statenont of what adinistrctive procedures
and cchinery cre to bo estcblished in order to ccaamplish
the investigction, screening, and certification of personnel.
together with a statcnent of what provisions aro to be ade
for review of cppecled decisions cnd reconsideration of
individucls previously refused certification.
3. ll officicls and subordinctes of tho Japanese Government
affected by the terns of this directive, and all school officicls, both
public cnd privcto, will be held personclly accountable fcr compliance
with the spirit as well as the letter of the policies enuncicted in this
directive.
FOR THE SUPREME CUMILNDER:
H. V.'ALLEN,
Colonel, A.G.D.,
Asst Adjutant General.
-2-

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 4 to Despatch No. 49 of November 10, 1945, from the Acting
United States Political Adviser to the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers.. Tokyo, Japan, on the subject "Transmis sion of Memorandum on
Egucational Affairs in Japan, October 1 to November 8, 1945".

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
NIPPON TIMES, TUESDAY,
upon a very ambitidus reform
EDUCATIÓN IN THE PAST MARKED
at that time, the new Mefji
ment was putting into at
BY GOVERNMENT INTERFERENCE
plans to abolish the foudel
and fleand the establish
the prefectures. In this
System of Teaching Was Completely Deprived of
lingering remnants of
the
old
feudal regime were eradicated.
Vitality and Initiative By Bureaucrats
Thus came at long last the long-
waited-for opportunity of unifying
the political structure.
By EIICHI NISHIZAWA
Minister Ohki set about the task
In 1868, the work of monarchal
of framing a novelsystem of edu:
As educational reform is one of
Restoration had been completed.
cation. He recognized the political
the requisites for the nation's re-
The Imperial Government had been
reason and necassity of national
construction along democratic lines,
fully established. The new Govern-
unity. Thus, the 5th year (1872)
the Supreme Headquarters for the
mencognized the significance of
of Meiji saw the formal promulga-
Allied forces here is paying great
the construction of a new Japan
tion in our country of the frst edu-
attention to this issue and is waiting
and the far reaching importance of
cational system founded upon the
for Japan to take positive action.
the advanceinent of national educa-
lines of that in America and Europe.
The Allied Headquarters recently
tion. The statesmen of the Meiji era
The whole country was to be
ordered the Ministry of Education to
noted the remarkable educational
divided into eight university dis-
choose suitable persons to form a
advances made in America and
tricts. East district was to contain
committee for investigation and re-
Europe. They showed great colicern
besides a university 32 middle school
search in the field of national educa-
about assimilating and abscrbing
districts, which were to be further
tion. Accordingly, the Education
their culture and introducing their
mapped out into 210 primary school
Ministry named 12 men for the task.
materialistic
civilization.
The
districts. Thus. it is that this new
On its own initiative, the Educa-
Emperor Meiji promulgated his
plan as conceived by Takato Ohki
tion Ministry is enforcing various
"Five Articles of Oath" in April,
was ambitious enough to intend to
measures to wipe out all traces of
1868. In the 5th Article of the Im-
create and open throughout the
militarism, namely, the abolition of
perial Oath, the Emperor laid down
country eight universitles, 256
the Regulaticns relating to War-
the fundamental principle; "Know-
middle schools, and 53,000 element-
time Education and the Wartime
ledge shall be sought for throughout
ary schools.
Emergency Measures, as well as
the world, so that the welfare of the
In the early years of Meiji, our
revision of school textbooks.
Empire mav be promoted."
world of thought was dominated by
Unless a thoroughgoing reform is
This basic principle forms the
the trend of Unitarianism of Ame-
introduced into the educational
foundation of the educational struc-
'rica and Europe. In the province
system of our country, where for
ture in our country. Thus, the
of education, too, all things were
many years the educational policy
Meiji Government, which in this
under the same influence. In con-
has been a medium for emphasizing
wise had come to feel keenly the
sequence, therefore, in the Govern-
natlonalism, the reconstruction of
llecessity of the universal diffusion
ment's declaration (Dajo-kan) by
a State founded on Peace and
of education aiming at the develop-
which the new educational system
Justice will be impossible of achieve-
ment of the people's intelligence and
was first promulgated, the real and
ment. The Japanese Government
knowledge, abolished that formalis-
fundamenta! aim of education was
has been addicted for nmany years
tic system of education prevailing
clarified. as follows:—
to the misguided policy of uni-
in the feudalistic days of the Toku-
"It is only by building up his
formity of methods and measures
gawa- Shogunate times, which at-
character, developing his mind, and
as applied to the educational proce-
tached undue importance to Chinese
cultivating his talents that man
dures in schools and colleges, forti-
learning grounded upon Confucian-
may make his way in the world.
fled with excessive interference and
ism, and addressed themselves to the
employ his wealth wisely. make his
control even in matters of very
introduction of the educational
business prosper, and thus attain
slight importance. They seem to
system of the advanced countries of
the goal of life. But man cannot
think that state interference means
America and Europe. When the
uild up his character; develop his
the enhancement of educational
Treaty of Amity (the Treaty of
inind, or cultivate his talents with-
efficiency, but this is nothing but
Kanagawa) proposed by Commodore
out education—that is the reason for
the height of bureaucratic nonsense,
Perry was concluded. his Lordship
the
establishment of schools.
which should be thoroughly eradi-
Daigaku-no-kami Hayashi, was the
Language, writing, and arithmetic,
cated. Moreover, they have long
representative of the Shogunate
to begin with, are daily necessities
béen content to let the educational
Government andthe head of the
in military affairs, government,
system remain as a tool of the
Japanese delegation, but he was at
agriculture, trade, arts, law, politics,
leaders of Japan's Militarism. As
the same time the head of the educa-
astronomy, and medicine; there is
a result the educational system,
tional organization of the feudal
not, in shørt, a single phase of
completely deprived of vitality and
government of the Shogunate and
l.uman activity which is not based
initiative, has.unavoidably fallen
the chief of its educational admin-
on learning. Only by striving in
Into a state of lethargy.
istration. Therefore, the old system
the line of his natural aptitude can
still continued to prevail in the new
man prösper in his undertakings,
Must Reform System
era of Meiji, with only the name
accumulate wealth and succeed in
It is imperative now to reform
changed. The chief of the educa-
life."
the whole system of education. In
t'onal organization combined in
Was Considered a Privilege
order to achieve this object, the
himself the double function as the
Hereby was finally indicated most
Education Ministry should lay down
head of the highest seat of learning
clearly the great basic principle of
a plan clearly indicating the way
and as chief of the educational ad-
the Government on Education.
and direction to be pursued and
ministration.
Further, it was propounded at the
effecting also all necessary measures
Launched Ambitious Program
same time, that "Learning is the
and steps for aid and guidance which
In the fourth year (1871) of Meiji,
key to success in life, and no man
may contribute to the proper deve-
the Ministry of Education was esta-
can afford to neglect it."
lopment oi educational activity.
blished, whereby the separation be-
In the past learning was the
What is particularly important is
tween the seat of learning and the
privilege and monopoly of the
the thorough renovation of the
administrative organ was fully and
samurai class. Correcting this evil
vlews entertained by the, officials of
completely effected. Takato Ohki
in order to give the agricultural,
that Ministry. The whole structure
of o'Mcious interference. must be
was installed as first Minister of
artisan, and commercial classes the
Education. Minister Ohki launched
benefits of education, the afore-
wholly abolished; the complete
mentioned declaration also stated.
simplification of the education
"Accordingly, the Department of
policy and the elimination of that
baneful system of bureaucratic
Education will soon establiah an
interference must be effected. And
the
in order to effect this reform it is
ssential to study the educational
syatem from its inception.

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
Japan established a papegaplan
for a new educatlonal systengh-
ly centralized in its effec
which
the Government intene* give
literacy to each and. very member
of the State without, xoeption. By
this means, the Japanase Govern-
ment intended to penact and realize
the unification of the whole country.
the acquisition of full knowledge of
modern arts and science, as well as
the realization of an economic
system; further, to secure therein a
stable foundation for the readjust-
ment of national defense. Natural-
ly, at the bottom of the national
educationa! policy lay hidden the ob-
ject of attaining the principle of
"Enrichment of the country and the
strengthening of national defense".
However, that school system
proved too great in scale and too
costly for the financial strength for
the early Melji Government to bear..
teacher in the US.A., and appointed
Moreover,the people at large were
him "superintendent of education"
not yet fit to make it possible to
(1873-1879). and made hindraw
put the whole plan into immediate
up a draft of the new edu
onal
cperation uniformly throughout the
plan. As the resu
the
country. Therefore, this school
new Code of
was
system, commendable as a paper
formulatedand
pian, achleved nothing palpably
September, 1879 (in the 12th year of
useful. as was expected.
Meiji). And this new Code of Edu-
In connection with the reform of
cation, unlike the school system put
the educational system, the Educa-
Into operation in the 5th year of
tion Ministry began to carry out
Meiji .(1872), adopted in regard to
research and investigation. Com-
the establishment of schools, really
missioner Fujimaro Tanaka of the
practical metheds and schemes, by
Ministry' of Education. carried out
imeans of the grant of government
a thorough study in this regard in
susidies and also by taking into
America and Europe. The late Mr.
consideration the actual financial
Yuzuru Niijima, founder of the
situation in the localities concern-
Doshisha"University. Kyoto, and a
ed. This was, a highly realistic
noted educationalist in Japan,
policy. Thus. it is that the Melji
furnished to the Government the
Covernment expected, by the adop-
data and materials he had collected
tion of a system which was pre-
in the course of his research in the
eminently characterized by freedom,
same field. And later Commis-
always with due regard to that
sioner F. Tanaka made his second
system as obtaining in the United
visit to America to carry out a wide
States, to make a contribution to
and extensive inspection there. Af-
the cause of educational develop-
ter his return home, he was ap-
ment which would be justified by
pointed Vice-Minister of Education.
the actual state of affairs in dif-
He called over to Japan an Amer!-
ferent districts throughout the
can named Dr. David Murray, of
country.
Rutgers College, who was his old
(To Bo Continued)

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
NIPPÓN TIMES, WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1945
EDUCATION IN THE PAST MARKED
first half of his life, Mori
even obdurate in maint
his
BY GOVERNMENT INTERFERENCE
own opinions and ideas,
the latter half he change
tan
ardent advocate of Nation
System of Teaching Was Completely Deprived of
the firet half he was an extreme
progressive, but in the latter half
Vitality and Initiative By Bureaucrats
he turned nto a most stubborn con-
servative; in the first half he stocd
forth as a valiant champion of the
By EIICHI NISHIZAWA
cause of freedom of speech, to
change,, in the latter half, into a
II
still retailed some traces of de-
stcut protector of absolutiem."
ment has no special Ministry in
charge of education, nor is there,
n America, the Federal Govern-
centralized or local autonomy in
this system of freedcm of focal edu-
educational administration. But
detail Mori once penned a composi-
tion titled "On the inadvisibility of
To lucidate his views more in
according!y, a secretary for educa-
cational self-rule on American lines
the party cabinet." It appears
tion. And all educational matters
continued to lose its power and
that he was of the opinion that the
are given over and entrusted to the
charge and juridisdictlon of each
influence with each successive re
vision and modification, and, in
armed might of the state was to
basis of a weaithy country and the
state which is allowed to adopt and
inevitable consequence, the power
be founded on Nationalism. Of the
pursue any policy it may think good
of interference vested in the entral
three chief objects of education,
and proper. By this free system,
Government grew. ever. stronger
Mori evidentiy attached the most
each state is enabled to make its
and more pronounced, till at leng:h,
importance to physical oulture; for
own proper characteristic develop-
in the 19th year of Meiji (1886),
he was keenly alive to the un-
ment in erlucational activity, as
Viscount Yurei Mori, the then
questionably inferior condition of
witness the notably prominent
Minister of Education, effected a
the physical constitution of the
characteristies which Harvard, Yale,
sweeping reform in the educaticnal
Columbia. and many other high
system; and so the American
Japanese. And to remedy this
seats of learning all boast as their
sctup characterized by usfettered
defect, he introduced into the
precious heritage and traditional
freedom was overthrown. Thus,
school curriculum a form of mili-
privilege.
at last a new system of education
tary drill, rigid in discipline.
The Code of Education of the
as a structure adapted for the re-
Military Drill Enforced
12th year of Meiji (1879) was the
alization of Nationalism' was firmly
At first, he seems to have. thought
manifestation of the grand βolicy
reared upon the ruins of the Code
that the whole matter of physical
of the Government, which aimed at
of Education.
drill should be entrusted to the
the gradual developmant of the
Strange to say, Yurei Mori once
care and charge of the War Mindis-
educational system, never los'ng
studied in England, and then went
try, and that, for this. purpose
sight of the real state of circum-
over to America, as he was greatly
military officers should be entrusted
stances in the localities concerned,
moved by her political ways which
with its guidance. This may be
by abolishing the old school system
were founded upon fair play and
said to be the very genesis of the
and by rectifying the policy of
righteousness.
returning
purely military drill as enforced
overexcessive interference of the
home in the first year of Meiji, he
till the close of the war at all
Government.
entered the official world. Later,
schools in Japan as a compulsory
In sharp contrast with the for-
he was appointed -Japanese Minister
part of the school curriculum.
mer "school system," which was
to the United States and went to
However, it must never be supposed
governed by mere hollow idealism
Washington to take up his duties
that Mori's idea about military
and vis'cnary theorists, the "Code
there. He did not lcse any oppor-
drill and physical exercises was
of Education' was a system which
tunity to make an extensive and
actuated mainly by aspiration .in-
stood out conspicuously. for free.
deep study of America's culture and
spired by Militarism, but his main
dom and progress, really worthy in
institutiens as the result of which
and basic idea was simply to pro-
full measure of the warm welcome
he was profoundly inspired by her
mote and raise the general level
extended to it by the general
rational traits of broad-mindedness
of the people's physical state at
public who aspired to the renova-
and initiative, so much so that he
the same t:me also aiming at
tion of our education system; for
finally came to be a great admirer
fostering disciplined obedience and
the, said "Code of Education" was
of America. He even went to the
at accustoming the people to coL
truly, born of the many trials its
length of averring openly that for
lective living.
authors had undergone.
the sake of enlightening and civil.
Be that as it may, the "Code of
However, as this new system was
izing our country, it would be neces-
Schools" of Education Minister
built on the pattenn of America,
sary, nay even imperative that the
Mori may be acccrded the credit of
whose eminent traits are freedom,
vernacular language should be
firmly laying down the fundamental
it d'd not agree with the Govern-
abolished and, instead, English
principle to guide and promote the
ment's policy reganding education
adopted as the national language,
whole educat:onal structure of our
as a means for prosecuting national
so radical and thoroughgoing he
country along the broad lines of
policy, and therefore there arose,
was in h's view of Europeanizing
Nationalism, and this basic educa-
soon after its actual operation, a
our country.
tional principle has been faithfully
strong current of opposition.
But as Minister of Education, he
followed by the successive Educa-
Therefore, the Education Minis-
metamorphosed himself into a tho-
tion Ministers.
try, in December next year, an-
rough conservative, and strongly
And what strikes us as most pro-
nounced amendments to the Edu-
advoca:ed  system of educatton on
minent in giving utterance to Mori's
cational Code in question, whereby
the lines of Nationalism. Once,
thoughts and ideas about education,
render more strict its control over
the said Ministry intended to
Mr. "Soho" Tckutom', the ncted
journalist, said as
follows in
Universities, which firms a part and
is the Code relating to the Imperlal
the abelition or establishment of
schcols, and also in the matter of
the details relating to the sub-
(ame under th ovgrmaster'ng in-
criticizing Mori.—
"In the first half of his life, Mori
parcel of his famous Code of
Schools. In Article 1 of the Code
of Universities, we read:—
"The Imperial Universities make
Ministry was determined to pursue
jects and methods of teaching, the
fluence of Amrica, while in the
latter half he was quite helpless
it their object to instruct the
its policy of wide interference.
before the overwhelming influence
students in ants and science, in
order to meet the deed and re
On the other hand, in the province
of tha Continemt (Hurope); in the
quirements of the State, and to con:
of finance, it announced the aboli-
duct the research and investigation
tion of subsidies.
into the
Code of Education
thereof."
the revised Code of
the successor of the
"Code of Education",

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.98)
Now, this Code
giversities
was personally penne
drafted
by Moii himself wheh,fact en-
ableés us most clearly  understand
how absorbed he wad fhe task of
formulating this Codp which was
embodied his own views and
opinions on the subject of national
education, and which showed how
he was resolved to translate his
ideals into realities. The concept
of indiv:dualistic utilitarianism of
the Spencerian type had entirely
vanished from it. In January, the
22nd year of Meiji (1889), just a half
month prior to the day of his 'death
at the hands of an assassin, Mori
made an address of instruction at
the conference of the principals of
the higher educational institutions
held at the Education Ministry. He
said in part:
Was Ardent Exponent
"The reason and aim for Which
our Government establishes and
mainta'ns the Ministry of Educa-
tion and puts it in charge of mat.
ters relating to the education of the
people, and also opens various
schools and colleges, by the outlay
of an erormous sum of money out
of the national treasury, is simply
and solely for the sake of the good
of the country; and if so, then we
cannet but say that the ultimate
aim and object cf educational ad-
ministration consists in the promo-
tion of the country's interests and
the attainment df its. prosperity.
enthusiastic advocate of education
To illustrate my point with the in-
on the lines of pure national tradi-
stance drawn frem the of the
tion. Said he: "By the education
Imperial Univers ties,
founded on the pure national tradi-
understand that, if you bould 
tion is meant that education by
yourselves in a dilemm y shoull
which we can hape to manifest and
always remember thathinterests
clarify the true aspect of the na-
of the State should be the first thing
tional polity, to make people always
uppermost in your minds. while
keep in view the precious legacy
the good and interests of truth and
of national pride and dignity, and
science might be relegated to the
at the same time, to engender in
second place. In the practical plane
their minds the virtues of prudence
of educational administration, there-
and affections of Mori's we seem to
fore, you should never for a moment
hear the pioneer utterance of the
forget that the good of the country,
arguments so loudly yented just
and not that of the students, mus!
after the outhreak of the Manchu-
always claim the exclusive atten: ria Incidemt by those. stanch
ticn cf the schcol authorities."
champions ofhigh Najonalism on
Mori, who stood forth as an ar- the subject of the clarifčation
dent exponent of the principle of of the national polity.
"State First," was naturally also an
(To Be Conaladed)

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.98)
EDUCATION IN THE PAST MARKED
BY GOVERNMENT INTERFERENCE
System of Teaching Was Completely Depnived of
Vitality and Initiative By Bureaucrats
By EIICHI NISHIZAWA
belonged to eitner of the two arm-
 corresponding ingr
the
ed services, and who possessed, of
Thus, Mori looked upon our seats
course, neither undstanding nor
number of students,
of higher education as órgans or
ficially observed, our
sdu-
nurserles to rear and foster the
connected with education The fol-
sympathy for education dr matters
cational structure pre
eally
ruling classes in our country. and
lowing instances su
Watethis
amazing appearance.
especially as organs for educating
quality we regret to statotrst, it is
the bureaucracy who were to des-
Statement: there were!wthe earlier
years of the Merji era, Marquis
far from satisfactory. Ajsif-to em-
tined to shoulder the responsibility
phasize this point, the ictual ex
for the future destinv of their cour.
Tsugumich. who was Admiral of
perience gained in the war just end-
the Imperial Navy, followed by
try. Therefore. the Imperial Univer-
Count Sukenori Kabayama, who
ed has made us feel most keenly
sites wère all placed under the
hoiv insuffcient are our eclentific
was Admiral of the Imperial Navy,
direct Therefore, the Imperial Univ-
knowledge and technique. This is
followed by Count Sukenori Kaba-
ers:ties were all placed under the
due in large measure to the huge
vama, who was also an Admiral,
direct contro! and strict supervision
Vice-Admiral Viscount Takeaki
appropriations set aside for military
of the Government, thereby impart-
purposes to, the neglect of educa-
Yenomoto, Marshal Prince Iwao
ing to them the strong coloring of
tion.
ficialdom. Further, when the
Ohyama, General Prince Taro Katsu,
It is really a great disadvantage
Government promu!gated the Regu-
General Count Gentaro Kodama,
and loss to the State that the im-
lations concerning the examination
and. finally General Baron Sadao
portant portfolio of Minister of Edu-
for civil service, the graduates of
Araki. In most recent days, an-
cation has for many years been oć-
other instance was furnished by
the Imperial Universities were ac-
cupied by men lacking in foresight
corded special privilege in cor-
Lieutenant General Harusbige Nino-
and enthusiasm, eonstantly living
nection with their appointment as
miya.
under the influence of Bureaucracy.
government officiai's This liberal pri-
About two decades and a half
Now thàt we are going to recon-
vilege bestowed upon the Imperial
since the regime of Education Min-
struct our country as a peaceful
University graduates had continued
Ister Mori up to the present day, the
state along Democratic lines, we
in existence till quite recently when
educational policy of pur country
should put forth all oun efforts to
it was at last abolished under the
has been characterized by the prin-
enhance the level of the people's
crushing pressure broughi to bear
ciple of "State First"—the very
culture and knowledge and stimu-
upon it by the universal strictures
quintessence of Nationalism—and
late the progress of sclence. At the.
and adverse criticisms showered on
all things have been conducted un-
same time, we shbuld try to foster
the system by the general public
der the elaborate interference of
the spirit of initiatige suang our
in our country.
officious Bureaucracy. This uni-
educationists by means of à radical
"Code of the Universities, the fun-
Next to the promulgation of the
formly monotonous march was
broken by Prince Kinmogh! Saionji
when he was Minister of Education.
reform in the educatiomal system
which would crush the principle of
nationalism.
damental law regulating education
Prince Saionji was far ahead of his
(End)
of the' lines of Nationalism in our
time in entertaining the. most, ad-
country, there were framed and
vanced and enlightened ideas about
promulgated several Codes relating
the practical side of education, and
to educatlon in normal and middle
so it was ónly. natural that our
schools, and primary schools. Thus,
country's education should come to
the whole educatjonal system in our
be tinged by Liberalism. This was
country came to show an imposing
the sole exceptlon to the rule of
aspect. Since then various partial
bureaucraticism in our country's
reforms and modifications were ef-
educational annals.
fected under the successive Ministers
Prince Saionji, fully recognizing
of Education. but the substance of
the importance of scientific train-
the structure,of education itself has
ing, the diffusion of the knowledge
remained paractically intact. In
of the English language, and the
short, the role of the Ministry of
encouragement of the education of
Education may' be said to have been
women, los no time in drawing up
restricted to the orbit already de-
a plan. Especially, the propagation
finitely prescribed and allotted to
of the English language seems to
it, so that there were shown no
have received great attention, so
signs of any conspicuous reforms
much so that he even insisted on
or innovations tinged by the spirit
curtailing the hours assigned to
of progressive initiative.
other subjects of study at schools
In consequence, in due time, the
and giving the hours thus gained to
Minister of Education came to have
the study and teaching of English.
a highly unenviable epithet confer-
But Prince'Saionji's plans were not
red upon-him by the sarcastic por-
understood by the people who were
tion of the public, that is, the
not so progressive in practice and
"Parasite Minister," feeding upon
advanced in thought., It was, there-
the sweat and blood of other cabi-
fore, only natural that there should.
net ministers and having the min-
have been raised in me a whirl-
isterial portfolio given to him only
wind of adverse criticisms against
by the' exigoncles of the constitu-
Prince Saionji, so that the Prince's
tonal politics of the country. This
ideas failed to be translated into
state of things inevftably brought
practise.
about in time the highty undasir-
In recent years, in our country,
able method of giving the port of
schools multiplied considerably with
Education'Minister to a person who

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.95)
OFFICE OF THE UMITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japan, November 10, 1945.
UNRESTRIOTED.
o. 49.
SURJEOT: Transmission of Memorandum on Educational Affairs in Japem.
October 1 to November 8, 1945.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
sir:
I have the honor to transmit, as of interest to the Departmemt,
a memorandum prepared by a member of the staff of this Office on the
subject: "Bducational Affairs in Japan, October 1 to Nevember 8, 1945".
The memorandum describes the principal irectives relating to
education issued to the Japanese Goverament by the Sapreme Commemder
for the Allied Powers, mentions the cooperative attitude of the Japamese
authorities, and includes a selection of comment frem the Japamese
press indicativs of a general interest in educational reforms.
Respectfully yours,
George Atcheson, Jr.
Enclosure:
Memeramdum -- "Educational Affairs in Japan,
October 1 to November 8, 1945".
Original and osalid to Department.
842
KaLeebriek:ms

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.94)
Inelesure to Boapatah No. 49 of November 10, 1945, frem the Aost
Allied Pevers, Takye, Japen, n the subjeet "Tranmissien ef
8, 1945".
BRUCATIONAL AFTAIRS IN JAPAN
October 1 to November 8, 1945.
1. Three direetives concerming education have beem issusd te the
Japanese Govermment by the Supreme Headquarters for the Allied Pewers.
"Administration of the Educational System of Japan"
(Octeber 22, 1945).
"Violation of Religious Freedem" (October 24, 1945).
"Investigatien, Screening, amd Certification of Teachers
and Bdmcational Officers" (Octeber s0, 1945).
Copies of these directives are attached to this memoramdum.
In additien, the directive of Ostober 4, 1945, em the subjeet
"Bemoval of Restrictions on Political, Civil, and Religious Liberties".
has gemeral reference to educational policies and ebjestives. mis
directive was transmitted to the Department wmder sever of Despatch
No. 2, October 8, 1945.
2. The three educational directives listed above may be
characterised as follows:
(a). The first states the general concepts and policies. Gourses
of instruction are to be examined and revised to eliminate the dissemime-
tion of militaristic and ultra-nationalistic ideology and also military
education and drill. The objective of the educational program is te be
the ineulcation of concepts and the establishment of practices in harmemy
with representative government, international peace, the digmity of the
individual, and such fundamental human rights as freedom of assembly.
speech, and religion.
It was directed that the personmel of all eimeational imstit-
tions be sereened.
(b). The third, as listed above, gives mere detailed instresties
rearfing

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.96)
一8一
regarding the elimination from the educational syetem of Japen ef
"those militaristic and altra-mationalistic influences which is the
past have contributed to the defeat, war gailt, suffering, privatium
and present deplorable state of the Japanese people........". The
Japanese Ministry of Bducation is required to set up the machimery te
attain these ends and to submit its plans for complying with this
momorandum.
(c). The Nippon Times, November 3, 1945, printed a clarifying
statement from Colonel Ken R. Dyke (Chief of the Civil Informatiem and
Bducation Section of Supreme Headquarters). The artiele states that
instructors now teaching and not known to be militaristic or ultre
nationalistic will remain at their posts pending screening. He mhele-
sale dismissal of instructors was intended. Teachers who had served in
the armed forces, but who are not career military or naval pereemnel
will not necessarily be dismissed or barred frem empleymemt.
The second above, "Violation of Religious Freedom", refers
to "certain acts on the part of officials of educational institutioms.
founded and supported by Christians of foreign nations, which represemt
inexousable and umjustifiable subversion of such institutions to
militaristic and ultra-nationalistio ends".
It refers to the situation at Rikkyo Gakuin (St. Paul's
Uaiversity and Middle Sohools). It directs the Japamese Geveramemt te
dismiss immediately the president and other officials and prefessers
named. The memorandam direots that "Rikkyo Gakuin be reorganised and
henceforth cenducted in accordance with the artieles af incorperassem."
It is required that a survey be conducted of "all efacatiemal
institutions in Japan which were founded and maintained by missiens on
public contributions of Ohristians of foreign natioms". A repers was
required by 15 November 1945. A list of institutiems to be surveged is

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.96)
furmiched. Mighty twe institutions are listed. The list is stated
to be suggestive but not imilusive.
(a). The general direstive of October 4, "Removal of Restrie-
tiens on Political, Civil, and Religtame Liberties", is a five pase
document which was issued to abolish restrictive legislatien, disbeme
harmful organisations and to make possible the developmeat of freedem
of meeah. of press, and the development of representative institutiems.
Its provisione give the general background for the revision of Japemese
education.
3. The cooperation of the Japanese Ministry of Macation and of
school authorities is on the surface complete. They seem anxious to
comply with the requests and suggestions of the Supreme Gommemder fer the
Allied Powers.
4. Clippings from newspapers show considerable general interest.
Himpen Times. November 5: "Clean up of schools Set by
Govermment". This is a sympathetic discussion of the
directive of October 30.
Asahi Shimbm.Movember 2: "There is urgent need for
Educational Reform".
Hippon Timea. November 1: Mitsuoke KAKIHU, writing on
suffrage for women, urges coeducation.
Lomimri-Hechi,Octeber 24: States that there is a ferment
of democratic ideas and that demands for change are
coming from inside various institutions, including schoels
and newspepers.
Other news stories bear emt this statement. Ekamples ere
the following:
Aaahi-Shimkm. Ootober 19: A group of stadents at Waseda
University were reported in confliet with Presideat
NaGamo ever the preferences granted to Aray and Navy cadess.
The students held a mass meeting and presented a resolusien.
Mimmen Times. November 1: Quot es Salaro IshIWAta of the
Peers Saheol that it has been decided to opem the seheels
were cooperating and thataew text books were being appreved.

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.92)
Rames Tiges, Fevember 5, 194s: The Tokye Daiversity of
Ladnstry (fornerly Tokyo Taiversity of Commeree) se tap-
ing deseesatie precoderes. he stadent bedy regeested
the retura of a member of the faeulty. The studeate were
in varieus sebeels fer skerter study hours and lenger
weekemds to go home becsmse of the insufficiemey of feed.
Student strikers alse were interested in the electiem ef
heads of classes, the dimmissal of certain sehoel effisials
and teachers, the returm of dismissed teachers and for the
establishment of courses on civics and demoereey.
Minnen anero Kaisai, November 4, 1945: The Bconsmies
cearse in Tekyo Imperial Uaiversity will be reergemised:
dismissed prefessors are being recalled and ether prefessers
have resigned.
Laminri-leshl, October 5, 194s: Urges that al1 ineempetent
professors be dismissed mot only for idselogical ressems
but alse for insempetence. The epinion was expressed that
reform of the miversities camnet ceme frem the admimistre
tiem, the faculty nor frem the studemts. It was urged that
the public should enter into the discussion of edmeasiemel
reforms and that public members should serve on the cemmittees
considering reforms.
Three articles by BHichi NICHIZaWA have appeared in the Himnen
Timas. November 6, 7 and 8, under the title: "Educatien in the Past
Marked by Goverament Interference". They soem significant emough
to be attashed.
The Okuvams Treaslatien Servics. Nevember 3, 1945: quetes
Premier Shidehara's speech in the Cenference of Prefestural Gevesmers.
Mevember 2, 1945, as follows: "To respect freedem and premote the
rights of the people is the essential f our people's polities aad the
realisation will form the basis of the rehabilitation of Jagam".
"What would form the fomndation of sueh pelitical system is ro-
movation of education: anti-fésatge ideas or an idee of marres misdse
self-complacemey should be got rid of; and edmcatien aiming as the
completion of the self and service to the peeple and sosiety sheald

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
1945.
DC/R
UNRESTRICTED
JAN 2 1946
D PARTMENT OF STATE
NO. 84
SUBJECT: Observations of Educational Institutions in
Various Cities of Japan.
HB3
5
2
CH
The Honorabe
HV
<icu
- The Segretary of tate,
loss(ims)
Washington.
I have the honor to transmit a memorandum prepared
by Dr. K. C. Leebrick of the steff of this Mission, sum-
marizing his observations of educational institutions
894.42/12-545
during a recent field trip to Kyoto, Osaka, Kobe, Nara
and Nagoya.
The memorandum is in itself a summarization of Dr.
Leebrick's observations of the institutions visited.
In general, it would appear that in many cities schools
and universities have made a beginning in curriculum
and personnel reform, but that they lack effective leader-
ship and direction and are operating under difficulties
which may be expected to increase with growing shortages
of food and clothing and financial inflation.
Respectfully yours,
Enclosure: at.L,
CS/VJ
Memorandum, November 27th:
Observations of Education-
al Institutions in Japan.
Original and duplicate, with
reverse carbon, to
Depertment.
Copy to: General Headquarters,
894.42/
SCAP.
DCH NF Unt
24
842
JSService:vs
D2ct

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to despatch no. 84 of December 5, 1945, from
the Acting United States Political Adviser, Tokyo, Japan,
on the subject "Observations of Educational Institutions
in Various Cities of Japan."
MEMORANDUM
November 27, 1945.
SUBJECT: Observations of Educational Institutions in
Various Cities other than Tokyo.
This report is based on conferences and observations made
during visits which took place November 19 - 25, 1945, to Kyoto,
Nara, Osaka, Kobe and Nagoya. The institutions visited were:
Kyoto Imperial University, Doshisha University, Osaka Imperial
University, Imamiya Chu-gakko (Osaka, Middle School for boys),
Yuhigakko jo-gakko (Sun-set Hill Girls High School, Osaka), and
a number of elementary and middle school buildings in the cities
mentioned above.
University conditions end probleme:
Faculties have not been seriously depleted. Faculty
members, considered essential by university administrations were
usually kept at their posts even though called by the armed ser
vices. A material number of faculty members, considered un-
desirable by the war government appointed university administre-
tion, were forced to resign or retire. Some of these faculty
men are now being recalled. This is true at Kyoto and at other
Imperial Universities. Osaka Imperial University and Doshisha
University report that they had no forced resignations of faculty.
The salaries of the faculties are so low that it is almost
impossible for them to live under present living costs. Several
faculty members showed the results of malnutrition.
Transportation congestion makes it difficult for faculty
and students to travel to and from the universities. In some
cases this has resulted in shortened hours and in longer midday
periods.
In damaged cities, students have found it difficult to find
living quarters and to obtain even the current rati ons of foods.
Student enrollment has fallen in all universities because of
service in the Army and Navy and because of the difficulty of
attendance in damaged cities. Students in small numbers are be-
ginning to return to universities. Face-saving figures of above
eighty percent of pre-war enrollment were given. There is reason
to doubt this high figure.
Student organizations have sprung up in most universities.
Osaka Imperial University and Doshisha University report very
little student activity to date. At Kyoto Imperial University
the organized students requested; change in the administration
and in the faculty; more contact between teachers and students;
shortening of hours of instruction;and that something be done to
secure

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
secure them more food and better living quarters. The students
have also requested the re-establishment of "cultural and social
science" courses. The authorities consulted were not alarmed
about these student movements. It was felt that the increasingly
stringent restrictions placed on the students during the long war
period had over-regimented the students. The current movements
were considered a normal reaction.
Curricula changes since the end of the war are slight. These
universities have added cultural courses for students and adults,
a few of these courses are open to occupational forces. Some
courses established by the wartime government have been discontinued
as for instance atomic research courses and several relating to
areo-mechanics. Social science courses and seminar type discussion
classes have been organized.
Library and instructional books and teaching aids are much
needed. There is an expressed desire for recent books in all fields.
Library files remind one that Japan has been cut off from most of
the world for about five years.
The buildings of Kyoto Imperial University were undamaged.
Property damage at Osaka Imperial University was extensive. The
medical building was burned. Medical instruction is now carried
on in the damaged hospital. The main building lost many windows
and suffered some fire damage. This building was over full of
salvaged equipment. The building maintenance was very poor. There
is class-room space for the present enrollment. This institution
is really a technical college or university; for the physical and
natural sciences, for mechanical and electrical engineering, and
for medicine. The former president, a career navy officer, retired,
last spring because of age. A former professor of chemistry is
now president.
Schools below the university level:
Curricula changes have been made to comply with occupational
authority directives. The "morals courses" are reported discontinued
as are also the instruction in military courses and drill. There
is information, however, that all the military drill has not been
eliminated from some schools. The teachers of Osaka Prefecture
are meeting by districts to study and propose text books deletions
and additions.
Faculty changes are taking place. A few wartime appointed
principals have been replaced. A small number of teachers who
served in the armed services have been re-employed. A few temporary
women teachers, who took the wartime six months preparatory course,
have been released. No shortage of teachers seems to exist.
In the Osaka Prefecture the teachers were called together,
by districts, by representatives of the national educational
authorities and were given instructions about their post war teach-
ing attitude and responsibilities.
Salaries are so low that they do not provide for the bare
necessities.
There

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
There is a real shortage of text books, old or new, and of
all supplementary instructional material and equipment.
School attendance is difficult for students and teachers
because of traffic congestion and the long distances which must
be travelled to reach unburned sections of the cities.
Food deficiencies are real. Children show signs of malnutri-
tion. Physical exercises has of necessity been restricted. Schools
have shortened the school day to permit the students to eat at home.
In several schools instruction ceases about midday.
Clothing is also inadequate.
School maintenance, as observed, was very poor. The buildings
were dusty and dirty, with the exception of Sunset Hill Girl's High
School at Osaka. Most institutions except at Kyoto and Nara suffered
bomb or fire damage. In those cities there is some crowding in te
schools below university grade, due to influx of population from bombed
cities.
School officials reported they need more instructions and assis-
tance from their own or from occupational authorities. The impression
was given me that school administrators and teachers are hesitant,
or perhaps afraid, to act on their own initiative for fear of later
rebuke or punishment.
KCLeebrickmc

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japan, December 5, 1945.
UNRESTRICTED
NO. 84
SUBJECT: Observations of Educational Institutions in
Various Cities of Japan.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to transmit a memorandum prepared
by Dr. K. C. Leebrick of the staff of this Mission, sum-
marizing his observations of educational institutions
during a recent field trip to Kyoto, Osaka, Kobe, Nara
and Nagoya.
The memorandum is in itself a summarization of Dr.
Leebriok's observations of the institutions visited.
In general, it would appear that in many cities sehools
and universities have made a beginning in curriculum
and personnel reform, but that they lack effective leader-
ship and direction and are operating under difrioulties
whioh may be expeoted to increase with growing shortages
of food and olothing and finanoial inflation.
Respectfully yours,
George Atoheson, Jr.
Enolosure:
Memorandum, November 27th:
Observations of Education-
al Institutions in Japan.
Original and duplicate, with
reverse oarbon, to
Department.
Copy to: General Headquarters,
SCAP.
842
JSService:vs

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.97)
Eaclosure to despateh no. 84 of December 5, 1965, from
on the subject "Observations of Educational Institutiems
in Various Cities of Japan."
November 27, 1945.
SumJmOr: Observations of Eaucational Institutions in
Various Cities other than Tokyo.
This report is based on conferences and observatiems made
daring visits which took place November 19 - 25, 1945, to Eyote,
Mara, Osaka, Kobe and Nageya. The institutions visited weret
Eyote Imperial Uaiversity, Doshisha University, Osaka Imperial
Uaiversity, Imamiya Chu-gakko (Osaka, Middle School for beys).
Yuhigakko jo-gakko (Sum-set Hill Girls Wigh School, Osaka), and
a mumber of elementary and middle school buildings in the cities
mentioned above.
University conditione mnd problams:
Faculties have not been seriously depleted. Faculty
members, comsidered essential by university administratiens were
usually kept at their posts even though called by the armed ser-
vices. A material mumber of faculty members, cemsidered -
desirable by the war government appointed umiversity admimistre-
tien, were forced to resign or retire. Some of these fasulty
men are now being recalled. This is true at Kyoto and at ether
Imperial Universities. Osaka Imperial University and Beshisha
University report that they had no foreed resigmatiens of faculty.
The salaries of the faculties are so low that it is almost
impossible for them to live under prosent living costs. Several
faculty members showed the results of malnutritiom.
Transportation congestion makes it difficult for faculty
and students to travel to and from the universities. In seme
cases this has resulted in shortened hours and in longer midday
periods.
In damaged cities, students have found it diffioult to find
living quarters and to obtain even the current rati oms of foeds.
Student enrollment has fallen in all universities becanse of
service in the Army and Mavy and because of the diffieulty of
attendance in damaged cities. Students in small mumbers are be-
ginning to return to umiversities. Face-saving figures of above
eighty pereent of pre-war enrollment were given. There is reason
to doubt this high figure.
Student organisations have sprung up in most universities.
Osaka Imperial University and Doshisha University repert very
little student activity to date. At Iyoto Imperial University
the organised students requested; change in the administratien
and in the faculty; more contact between teachers and studemts;
shortening of hours of instreetiom;and that something be deme to
seeure

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.97)
seeure them more feod and better living quarters. The stuleats
heve also requested the re-establishmest of "sultural and sesial
seiense" courses. The autherities consulted were met alarmed
about these student movements. It was felt that the imereasingly
stringent restrictiens placed on the studeats during the leng war
peried had over-regimented the students. The current mevements
were considered a mermal reaction.
Ourricula changes since the end of the war are slight. These
universities have added caltural courses fer students and adalts,
a fow of these courses are opem to cccupational ferees. Ssme
courses established by the wartime goverament have been disosmsismed
as fer instance atemic researeh ceurses and several relating te
aree-meshanics. Social science ceurses and seminar type discussiem
classes have been organised.
Library and instructional beoks and teaching aids are much
needed. There is an expressed desire for recemt beoks in all fields.
Library files remind one that Japan has been cut off from most of
the world for about five years.
The buildings of Iyoto Imperial University were undamaged.
Preperty damage at Osaka Imperial University was extensive. The
medical building was burmed. Medical instractien is new carried
on in the damaged hospital. The main building lost many windess
and suffered some fire damage. This building was over full ef
salvaged equipment. The building maintenance was very peor. There
is class-reom space for the present emrollmemt. This imstitutism
is really a technical college or university: for the physical and
matural sciences, for mechanical and electrical engineering, and
for medicine. The former president, a career mavy officer, retired,
last spring becanse of age. A former professor of chemistry is
now president.
Sahaala balen tha universitx level:
Ourricula changes have been mede to comply with cccupational
authority directives. The "morals courses" are reported diseentimued
as are also the instruction in military courses and drill. There
is information, however, that all the military drill has met beem
eliminated from some schools. The teachers of Osaka Prefesture
are meeting by districts to study and propose text becks deletiems
and additions.
Faculty changes are taking place. A few wartime appeinted
principals have been replaced. À small mwmber of teachers whe
served in the armed services have beem re-employed. A few temperary
women teachers, who took the wartime six months preparatery course,
have been released. No shortage of teachers seems to emist.
In the Osaka Prefecture the teachers were ealled together,
by districts, by representatives of the matiemal educatienal
authorities and were given instrestions about their post war teesk-
ing attitude and respensibilities.
Salaries are so low that they do not provide fer the bare
necessities.
There

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.92)
- 3 -
There is a real shertage of tert books, old or mew, and of
all supplememtary iastrustiemal material and equipment.
School attendance is diffioult for students amd temchers
besause of traffic ceugoettem and the long distanees which must
be travelled te reach unburned shstioms ef the cities.
Feod deficiencies are real. Gaildren show signs af malmsteñ
tien. Pkysical exercises has of nesessity beem restricted. 
have shertemed the saheel day to permit the students te eat at
In several sohoels instraction ceases about middey.
Clothing is also inadequate.
Schoel maintenance, as ebservedy was very peert The kaildins
were dasty and dirty, with the exeeptien of Sansst Mill Girl's
Sobeel at Osaka. Mest institutiems except at Eyeto and E mutt
bemb or fire damage. In these cities there is some cremdivy in
schools below miversity grade, due to influx of populatiom frem
a1ties.
was givem me that scheel administraters and teachers are hesitant,
or perkaps afraid, te ast on their owm isitiative for fear of lates
rebake or pumishment.
KOLeebricktms

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
AN 1 4134
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITI
Tokyo, Japan, December 10, 1945.
DC/R
No. 90
SUBJECT:
Educational Affairs in Japan, Novomber 9
to December 1, 1945.
NA
IFE/R
ANCV
HH
lIRiS
E ED
The Honerable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
sir:
894.42
JACUINI
I have the honor to refer to despateh No. 49
of November 13, 1945, on the subject "Educational
Affairs in Japan, October 1 to November 8, 1945" and
42/12-1045
to transmit a copy of a memorandum preparei by
Dr. K. C. Leebrick, of the staff of this Mission,
on the same subject covering the period from November
9 to December 1, 1945.
The memorandum, which is not susceptible of
summarization because of the wide range of subjects
covered, shows that progress in educational reform
is being made.
Respectfully yours,
Tm Abheonig!
CS/LE
George Atcheson, Jr.
Enclosure:
Memorandum dated
December 3, 1945.
Copy to Supreme Commander, Allied Powers
Original and duplicate, with reverse
carbon, to Department.
JAN301948
894.42
842
DOR - NE Unit
FIT.ED
JSService:dm
DA

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 90 of December 10, 1945.
from the Acting United States Political Adviser
Tokyo, Japan, on the subject "Educational Affairs
1n Japan, November 9 to December 1, 1945".
MEMORANDUM
SUBJECT:
Educ-tional Affairs in Japan.
Novemper 9 to December 1, 1945.
I. Official Action
A). Supreme Headquarters for the Allied Powers
issued no directives on educetion during this period.
B). Jananese Educational Ministry:
(1). The Director of the Textbooks Bureau
was "docked a montns pay on the charge of negligence".
He "had not passed on, the contents of oral instructions
of November ic, regarding the suspension of printing
textbooks now being used in the schools". (Nippon
Times, Novemper 30, 1945).
(2). The Vice Minister of Education announced
the diecontinuance of all military training in the
schools. (Nippon Times. November 14, 1945).
(3). Orders were issued to the effect that the
"labor work plan" for students may beput into effect.
Emphasis is to be laid on the increased production of
food. (Nippon Sangyo Ke1zai, November 8, 1945).
(4). "Due to the need of education of the
public for the reconstruction of the country, the
Education Ministry issued an crdinance on Tuesday to
the prefectural governments, educational and eocial
welfare groups, religious groupe and teachers". The
ordinance provided that:
(a). School buildings and libraries to be open
to the public.
(5). Estaplishment of special lecture courses for
the puplic "to heignten the cultural standard of the
people".
(c). Starting of courses in civics.
(d). To hola lecture courses on cultural subjects
and open summer sessions at universities.
(e)

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.98)
(e) To esteblish courses in home training and other
special courees for women.
(f) To create special courses to improve the skill
of industriel workers.
(g) To allow the public to attend lectures so that
the peoples technical knowledge will be enhanced. (Nippon
Times, November 9, 194t).
(5). Fromotion hes begun to promote scientific
education "for the re-establishment cf the civilized
Japan". A "Science Education Bureau for the populariza
tion of scientific education" 1s planned. (Tokyo Shimbun,
November 12, 1945).
(6). A Civic Education Section vas created in the
Social Education Bureau, "as an organ designed to permeate
the nation with social denccratic ideas", and to "drive
home to the people the significance of the election by
All-Japan Education Society and otner organizations
affiliated with the Ministry will be mobilized in the
campaign to be undertaken by the new section. (Nippon
Times, November 15, 1945).
(7). The Tsurumaki and Akag1 national school build-
ings in Tokyo will be used to accomodate some three hundred
families who were burnt cut. Priority ie to be given
to the pupils and their families and to teachers and their
families. (Stars and Stripes, November 12, 1945).
(8). Decision was reached, for the first time in
the nistory of Japanese education, to give girls equal
opportunity to enter Higher Schcole. Admission to these
higher achools "will automatically pave the way for the
girls entrance into colleges and universities". (Nippon
Times November 20, 1945).
(9). A new preeiõent was selected for Takushoku
Univers1ty. (Asah1, November 25, 1945).
(D). One hundred national schools in the Tokyo
area were ordered abandoned. It was reported thet out
of 337 damaged schocls in the Tokyo area, 274 were com-
pletely burned, 64 partly burned, l0o of these will not
be repuilt. The rebuilding of the others is expected
to cost three million yen. There are now 675 schools in
the 30 c1ty varas and 210 in the Saitama area. At present
there are 67,100 national school pup1ls in the Tokyo
area. Due to the 1scontinuance of the 100 schools,
700 teachers will be relcased and the school dey will
be organized into two ahifts, morning and afternoon.
(Nippon Times, November 25, 1945).
(11)

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.98)
一3-
(11). It was reported hat students participation
was being included in the committee being organized for
the investigation of school teachers and employees.
(12). A l1st was published of the names of 140 new
heads of higher and professional schools. (Asah1, November
25, 1945). This order dated November 24, caused "a
large ecale reshuffle of college and higher school
principale invclving as many as 1ll scnools and of a
total of l&o". Another shake-up on a smaller scale 1s
expected to take nlace very soon. (Mainichi, November
26, 1945).
(13). Seinen-Gakko, or the schools for young men
"which appeared to be Tmilitary academies' will be turned
into democretic civic education centers". Most of the
teachers were "m1litary men". Tokyo has set un 145 of
these reorfanized schools where trade courses and
physical education facilities will be provided. The
etaffs have been changed. (Asahi, November 26, 1945).
(14). The dates for Higher Schools and College
entrance written examination were set ror April and May.
Written examinations will not be held fcr entrance to
Middle Schools. (Nippon Sangyo Keizai, November 30, 1945).
C). The Imperial Household announced that "new
photographs of His Majesty the Emperor will be granted
to replace those in the schools, local government ofrices
and diplomatic and consular offices aproad......
"The new imperial picture will show His Imperial Majesty
in the imperial uniform recently instituted". (Nippon
Time8, November 20, 1945).
II. Student Organization
A). Official statements.
"It 1s very regrettable tres troubles had to occur
recently at schools. Schools are domestic societies
tied by Love and Teaching. The importance of the Code
between Teachers and Pupils will always be the same
regardless of time. Whenever a trouble occurs, it should
be solved in a domestic and self-governing manner, it
will always be a shame for the scnool to expose the in-
side troubles outvard. The students are recuested not
to misunderstand the true meaning of Freedom. Mr. K.
TANAKA, Director of the Bureau of Education, Education
Ministry. (Nippon Newsreel, October 25, 1945).
Reportere of the Tokyo Shimbun, (November ?7, 1945)
cuestioned officers of the Education Ministry as to their
attitude toward student strikes. The reply is given as
"Students

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.97)
一4一
"Students should not participate in the administration
of their scnools. If they don't agree with the school's
policy they should leave the school wnich would be the
honoreble thing to do. They (the students) had the
right to select the scnoole they wanted to enter and they
should have etudied the school'e policy before enrolling.
(Tokyo Shimbun, November 27, 1945).
Educetion Minieter, MAEDA Tamon, replying to NAGAOKA
Ryuichiro of the Kyo Club, said "the scnool authorities
are in no position to deal firmly with the agitating
students: He said that school authorities can not be
concirered rignt in all disputes witn student bodies and
that they are expected to reform where they are found in
the wrong". "Students, however, he went on, are minors.
They have yet to learn to gcvern themeelves. Their
capabilities are limitec. Thus they cannot be left to
themselves. For this r ason the autnorities are determined
to deal firmly with studenus going beyond tneir proper
functions". (Nippon Times, December 1, 1945).
B). Stucent activities.
Stucent activicies of severel types sook place.
Organized actione were evident, also statements and
petitions by elf appointed students. Sore promoting
of student proteste is based on official stiulation from
education enc political officials.
It was anrounced, November 7, 1945, that the Education
Ministry will promote Soclal Education. It proposed to:
establish young men's asscciatiors, and women's cultural
associations, use schocl buildings and facilities for
sociel educetion; open universities and other schools to
lec ures for the people. These things prepare the students
for chengee. If the administratore of the schcols are
slow s tudenus often try to force action. There were fewer
reports of student activities than in the previous month.
Four hifher schools students meetings were reported.
They demanded or recuested:
Resignations of certain school officials.
Chenges in school rules. In one instance
requested the iscontinuance of the "head powing"
rule.
One grour requested the elirinetion of all
written exeminations.
In some instanees the requests w re granted; in others
ap eals were mae to Tokyo; and in one instance the alumni
of the school "volunteered" to try to negotiate on the
condition the stucents end their surike.
A1so

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.98)
Also four college or university student meetings
are reported.
The students at Doshisha University are reported
(Nippon Times, November 15, 1945) as presenting eight
recueets. A visit at this institution gave the information
that thie meeting was in fact a student-faculty dis-
cuseion group and that some one mace a report of the
discussions.
Waseda University students protested to the police
over the arrest and maltrentment of a student suspected
of stealing a prcfessor's raincoat. They secured an
explanation an an apology.
Kyoto Imperial University Social Science Student
Asscciation anrounced the students were making an "analysis
of capital'sm in Japan" under the Euidance of a professor.
Kyoto Prefectural Heical College students and faculty
had three day mass-meetings to "bring about a reform in
the government of the institution on the Democratic
line". A resolution consisting of tnirty items was re-
ported adonted. (Nippon Times, December 2, 1945).
III. Organization of "Japanese Educetionalists Union",
December 1, 1945
A meeting was held of representatives cf the teachers.
It was decided to cemccratize the Dai Nippon Kyoikukal,
(Jenan Educstion Asscniation) by formin a new union. It
was afreef that the proctice cf having the Minister of
Educetion as honorary cnsir en, sppoint the chairman, must
be diecontinued.
At a meeting of the genoral committee, November 13,
le45, three otner changes were discussed:
(1) To establish local councillors who are to be
selected from the various sub-prefectures and
cities.
(2) To select the central councillors from the
locel councils.
(3) To elect the local cheirman by the local counc1l.
(Yomiuri-Hocni, November 14, 1945: many papers
featured this story).
Stare en: Stripes, November 17, 19/5, reportec that
the preparator comiesion had afreed that the picture of
the Emperor in m litary uniform must be cnanged immediately
to a picture with & more yeeceful apregrance as the first
step toverd the real democralization of Jepan. (It was
announced, Novemper 26, 19 5, thet a new photograph would
be issued).
After

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.96)
- 6-
After a mesting of the prepar tcry committee,
November 24, 1s45, 1t was reported thet 1t had been
decided:
(1) To recuest the resignetion of the leading
officials of the Educational Ministry before clear-
ing the educotional eystem of militariste and ultra-
nationalists.
(2) To select e srecial commituee for making
formal represencstions to the Eaucaticr Mintstry and
to "petition the Surrome Allied Hesaquartere".
(5) To name the union the Jararese Educetionalists
Union.
(4) To sdcot ss the union's obiectives: indeperdence
of the egucotion an the betterment of living conditions.
(5) To intornationalize educrtion.
(6) To seek "the aetermin tion of the war responsibles
in education".
One f the delegates made the sig ificant remark
"that the educ tionel system in Japan could never be
derocratized unleee the rresent governmental system of
treining teachere 1e basically changed to build up
lineral-minded teechers instead of narrow-minded national-
1stic sterotyped instructors.
The above rro ram vas  ccepted at the organizational.
meeting, December i, lu45. One of the first acts of the
new union wes to despetch twc repr seniatives to investigate
the reported "malicious treatment of teachers in Niigata
Prefecture prior to crl War II" where the superintendent
of education and fifteen schoel teechers were arrested,
November 29, 19 41 on "thournt cherges" leading to the
suicide of one tfacher in Jail. (Nippon Times, December
5, 1945).
IV. Curricule changes
Waseda Univereity announcea series of lectures on
politicel, econoric end culturel topics. (Nippon Times,
November 16, 1545).
Kyoto Imperial University: The study of social
sciences will be reirstated". These studies were banned
by the autnorities after the outbreak cf the Sinc-Japanese
hosti ities on the theory that the study of social
sciences resulted ir the birth of Red nrofessors and
students". (Nippon Times, Novemner 17, 1945).
Tokyo

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.97)
一7一
Tokyo Imperial University: The Aero-nautical Re-
search Institute of the university will be reorganized
and become the Scientific Research Inetitute, "to engage
ir research in the scientific field, including mechanics,
and applied dynamics". Furth rmore, the Southern Natural
Scientific Research Institute will be reorganized and
become the Local Natural Scientific Research Institute.
It will conduct research on "the cold area of the country
and surveying land". (Nippon Times, November 29, 1945).
Osaka Iuperial Un'versity announced that the aero
dynanics course will be changed to become an "applied
aerial dynamics couree". (Nippon Timea, November 29,
1945).
Kyoto Imperial University is reported to have
anncunced that the Literature Depertment had decided to
suepend class work for two months from December 24th,
because of the shortage cf foocstuffs. "other depart-
ments are expected to take similar emergency measures".
(N1ppcn Times, November 30, 1945).
V. Administrative and Faculty changes
Kyushu Imperial University: A new dean was selected
to replace an Admiral who had resigned. (Nippon Times,
November 17, 1945).
Tokyo Imperlal University: Seven liberal rrofessors
who had been "kicked out of the university in 1939
because of their anti-m litaristic learning and teachings"
were reported returnire to the university. (Nippon
Timee, November 19, 1945).
Kyushu Imperial University announced that four dis-
missed prcfeesors hed peen re uested to return. (Asahi,
Novemter 24, 1945).
aseda University authorities announced the return
of a professor dismissed as indicated above. (Asah1,
November 25, 1945).
VI. A Women's University
It was anncunced tnst a women's university is
being planned to open next April in the suburbs of
Nagoya. The university was expected to have five de-
partments; lit rature, economics, agriculture, industrial,
and "household". An enrollment of 4800 was anticipated
as a possihle student pody. (Mainichi, November 25, 1945:
Nippon Times, November 27, 1945).
KCLeebrick:ms

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.97)
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITIGAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japan, Desember 10, 1945.
No. 90
SUBJEOT: Educatienal Affairs in Japan, November 9
to December 1, 1945.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to despatoh No. 49
of November 15, 1945, on the subjest "Edueatiomal
Affairs in Japan, Ootober 1 to November 8, 1945" and
to transmit a copy of a memorandum prepared by
Dr. K. C. Leebriok, of the staff or this Mission,
on the same subjeet covering the peried frem Nevember
9 to December 1, 1945.
The mmorandum, which is not suseeptible of
summarization because of the wide range of subjests
covered, shows that progress in edueational reform
is being made.
Respectfully yours,
George Atoheson, Jr.
Enclosure:
Memorandum dated
December 3, 1965.
Copy to Suprem Commnder, Allied Powers
Original and duplicate, with reverse
carbon, to Department.
842
JBService:dm

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclesure te Despatch No. 90 ef December 10, 1
frem the ating United Ssates Politieal Advisea
Tokyo, Japan, on the subjeet "Educational Affa
in Japan, November 9 to December 1, 1945".
MEMORANDUM
SUBJECT:
Educational Affairs in Japan.
November 9 to December 1, 1945.
I. Official Action
A). Supreme Headquarters for the Allied Pow
issued no directives on education during this pert
B). Japanese Educational Ministry!
(1). The Director of the Textbooks Bure
was "docked a months pay on the charge of negli
He "had not passed on, the contents of oral inst
of November io, regarding the suspension of primt
textbooks now being used in the sohools". (Nippem
Times, November 30, 1945).
(2). The Vice Minister of Education anmoune
the discontinuance of all military training in the
schools. (Nippon Times, November 14, 1945).
(3). Orders were issued to the effeet that the
"labor work plan" for students maybeput into effest.
Emphasis is to be laid on the inoreased produetion of
food. (Nippon Sangyo Keizai, November 8, 1945).
(4). "Due to the need of education of the
publio for the reconstruction of the country, the
Education Ministry issued an ordinance on Tuesday
the prefeotural governments, educational and soeial
welfare groups, religious groups and teachers".
ordinance provided that!
(a). Sohool buildings and libraries to be open
to the public.
(b). Establishment of special lecture courses for
the publio "to heighten the cultural standard of the
people".
(o). Starting of courses in civies.
(d). To hold leeture courses on oultural subjeets
and open summer sessions at universities.
(0)

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.97)
2
(e) To establish courses in home training and other
special courses for women.
(f) To create speoial courses to improve the skill
of industrial workers.
(g) To allow the publio to attend leotures so shat
the peoples technical knowledge will be enhanced.
Times, November 9, 1945).
(5). Promotion has begun to promote scientifie
education "for the re-establishment of the civilised
Japan". A "Science Education Bureau for the populs
tion of scientifio education" is planned. (Tekye
November 12, 1945).
(6). A Civic ducation Seotion was oreated in
Social Education Bureau, "as an organ desigted to
the nation with social democratic ideas", and to "ar
home to the people the significance of the elestiom
giving leoture courses on the election...
All-Japan Education Bociety and other organisations
affiliated with the Ministry will be mobilized im
campaign to be undertaken by the new seotion. (
Times, November 15, 1945).
(7). The Taurumaki and Akari national schoel build
ings in Tokyo will be used to accomodate some thres handred
families who were burnt out. Priority is to be givem
to the pupils and their families and to teachers and their
families. (Stare and Stripes, November 12, 1945).
(8). Decision was reached, for the first time in
the history of Japanese education, to give girls 
higher schools "will automatically pave the way fer the
girls entrance inte colleges and universities". (Mippem
Times, November 20, 1945).
(9). A new president was selected for Takushok
University. (Asahi, November 25, 1945).
(D). One hundred national schools in the Tekye
pletely burned, 64 partly burned, l00 of these will not
be rebuilt. The rebuilding of the others is expested
to cost three million yen. There are now 675 schools 1n
the 36 city wards and 210 in the Baitame area. At present
there are 67,100 national school pupils in thetokye
area. Due to the discontinuanee of the 100 sehools.
700 teachers will be released and the school day will
be organised into two shifts, morning and afternoom.
(Nippon Times, November 25, 1945).
(11)

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.97)
一 3 -
(1l). It was reported that students partieipas
was being included in the committee being orgamised
the investigation of school teachers and empleyees.
(12). A list was published of the names of l4e new
heads of higher and professional schools. (Asahi, Movember
25, 1945). This order dated November 24, caused "a
large scale reshuffle of college and higher scheel
principals involving as many as lll sohools and of a
total of l80". Anether shake-up en a smaller seale is
expected to take place very soon. (Mainiehi, November
26, 1945).
(13). Seinen-Gakko, or the schools for young men
"which appeared to be military academies' will be turned
into democratic civic education centers". Most of the
teachers were "military men". Tokyo has set up 145 ef
these reorganized schools where trade courses and
physical education facilities will be provided. The
starfs have been changed. (Asah1, November 26, 1945).
(14). The dates for Higher Sohools and College
entrance written examination were set for April amd May.
Written examinatiens will not be held for entramee 
Middle Schools. (Mippon Sangyo Keizai, November 30, 1945).
C). The Imperial Mousehold announced that "new
photographs of his Magesty the Emperor will be gramsed
to replace those in the schools, local government efrices
and diplomatic and consular offices abroad........
"The new imperial picture will show His Imperial Majesty
in the imperial uniform recently instituted". (Wippen
Times, November 20, 1945).
II. Student Organization
A). Official statements.
"It is very regrettable that troubles had to osour
recently at schools. Schools are domestic societies
tied by Love and Teaching. The importance of the Code
between Teachers and Pupils will always be the same
regardless of time. Whemever a trouble occurs, it mhould
be solved in a domestic and self-governing manner, it
will always be a shame for the school to expose the in-
side troubles outward. The students are requested met
to misunderstand the true meaning of Freedom. Mr..
Ministry. (Mippon Mewsreel, O0tober 25, 1945).
Reporters af the Tokyo Shimbun, (November 27, 10a5)
questioned officers of the Education Ministry as so sheir
attitude toward student strikes. The reply is iwem as
"Students

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.98)
"Students should not participate in the administratiem
of their schools. If they don't agree with the
peliey they should leave the sehoel whieh weuld 
should have studied the school's poliey before enrolling.
(Tokye Shimbun, November 27, 1945).
Education Minister, MAEDA Tamon, replying to MaGaOKA
Ryu1chiro of the Kyo Club, said "the school authorities
are in no position to deal firmly with the agitating
students: He said that sohoel authorities ean not e
considered right in all disputes with student bodies and
that they are expeoted to reform where they are foumt in
the wrong". "students, however, he went on, are mimers.
They have yet to learn to govern themselves. Their
capabilities are limited. Thus they cannot be left to
themselves. For this reason the authorities are determined
to deal firmly with students going beyond their proper
functions". (Nippon Times, December 1, 1945).
B). Student activities.
Student activities or several types took plase.
Organized actions were evident, also statements and
petitions by self appointed students. Some premoting
of student protests is based on offioial stimulatiem from
education and political officials.
It was announced, November 7, 1945, that the Edueation
Ministry will promote Social Education. It proposed te:
establish young men's associations, and women's oultural
associations, use school buildings and facilities for
mocial education; open universities and other sehoels to
leotures for the people. These things prepare the students
for changes. If the administratore of the schoels are
slows tudents often try to force action. There were fewer
reports of student activities than in the previous month.
Four higher sohools students meetings were reperted.
They demanded or requested:
Resignations of certain sohool officials.
Changes in sohool rules. In one inetanse
requested the discontinuance of the "head bowing"
rule.
One group requested the elimination of all
written examinations.
In some instances the requests were granted; in ethers
appeals were made to Tokyo; and in one instanee the alumni
of the school "volunteered" to try to negotiate on the
condition the students end their strike.
A100

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.97)
-5 -
Also four college or university student meetings
are reported.
The students at Doshisha University are repersed
(Hippon Times, November 15, l945) as presensing eighs
requests. A visit s this institution gave the infermation
that this meeting was in fact a student-faoulty dis
oussion group and that some one made a report of the
discussions.
Waseda University students protested to the poliee
over the arrest and maltreatment of a student suspeeted
of stealing a professor's raineoms. They secured an
explanation and an apology.
Kyoto Imperial University Social Scienee Studemt
Association announced the students were making an "mmmlysis
of capitalism in Japan" under the guidance of a prereaser.
Iyoto Prefeotural Medical College students and feeulty
had three day mass-meetings to "bring about a reform in
the government of the institution on the Demoeratis
limel. A resolution consisting of thirty items was re
ported adopted. (Mippon Times, December 2, 1945).
III. Organisation of "Japanese Educationalists Unien",
December 1. 1945
A meeting was held of representatives of the teashers.
It was decided to democratize the Dai Wippon Kyeikukal.
(Japan Education Association) by forming a new union. It
was agreed that the practice of having the Minister of
Education as honorary chairman, appoint the chairman, must
be disoontinued.
At a meeting of the general committee, November 13,
1945, three other changes were discussed:
(1) To establish local counoillors who are to be
selected from the various sub-prefectures
cities.
(2) To select the central oouncillors from the
looal couno1ls.
(3) To elect the local chairman by the local couneil.
(Yomiuri-Hooh1, November 14, 1945: many papers
Featured this'story).
Stars and Stripes, November 17, 1945, reported that
the preparatory commission had agreed that the pioture of
the Emperor in military uniform must be changed immodiately
to a pioture with a more peaceful appearance as the first
step toward the real demooralization of Japan. (It was
announced, November 26, 1945, that a new photograph would
be issued).
After

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.99)
After a meeting of the preparatory committee,
November 24, 1945, 1t was reported that it had been
decided:
(1) To request the resignation of the leading
officials of the Educational Ministry before clear
ing the educational system of militarists and ultra
nationalists.
(2) To select a special committee for making
formal representations to the Education Ministry and
to "petition the Supreme Allied Headquarters".
(3) To name the union the Japanese Educatiomalists
Union.
(4) To adopt as the union's objeotives: independenee
of the education and the betterment of living conditions.
(5) To internationalize education.
(6) To seek "the determination of the war responsibles
in edueation".
One of the delegates made the significant remark
"that the educational system in Japan could never be
demooratized unless the present governmental system of
training teaohers is basically changed to build up
liberal-minded teachers instead of narrow-minded national-
istio sterotyped instruotors.
The above program was a ccepted at the organizational
meeting, December 1, 1945. One of the first aots of the
new union was to despatch two representatives to investigate
the reported "malicious treatment of teachers in Hiigata
Prefecture prior to World War II" where the superIntemdent
of education and fifteen school teachers were arrested,
November 29, 194l on "thought charges" leading to the
suicide of one teacher in Jail. (Nippon Times, December
5, 1945).
Iv. Currioula changes
Waseda University announced a series of lectures on
political, economic and cultural topics. (Nippon Times,
November 16, 1945).
Xyoto Imperial University: The study of social
sciences will be reinstated". These studies were banned
by the authorities after the outbreak of the Sino-Japanese
hostilities on the theory that the study of sosial
soiences resulted in the birth of Red professors and
students". (Nippon Times, November 17, 1945).
Tokyo

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo Imperial University! The Aero-naxtieal
in research in the scientifie field, ineluding mee
and applied dynamies". Furthermore, the Southern Ma
Seientific Research Institute will be reorgamised
become the Local Natural Scientific Researsh Institate.
and surveying land". (Nippon Times, November 29, 1945).
Osaka Imperial University announced that the aaro-
dynamics course will be changed to become an "applied
aerial dynamics course". (Nippon Times, November 29,
1945).
Iyoto Imperial University 1s reported to have
announced that the Literature Department had deeidel
suspend class work for two months from December 24t
because of the shortage of foodstuffs. "Other dey
ments are expected to take similar emergency measus
(Mippon Times, November 30, 1945).
V. Administrative and Faculty changes
Kyushu Imperial University: A new dean was selmeted
to replace an Mamiral who had resigned. (Mippen Times,
November 17, 1945).
Tokyo Imperial University: Seven liberal profesee
who had been "kicked out of the university 1n l959
because of their anti-militaristic learning and teachings"
were reported returning to the university. (Hippen
Times, November 19, 1945).
Kyushu Imperial University announced that four dis-
missed professors had been requested to return.
November 24, 1945).
Waseda University authorities announced the resurn
of a professor diemissed as indicated above. (Ass
November 25, 1945).
VI. A Women's University
It was announced that a women's university is
being planned to open next April in the suburbs of
Nagoya. The university was expected to have five de
partments; literature, economics, agrieulture, industrial,
as a possihle student body. (Mainiek1, November 25, 1945:
Mippon Times, November 27, 1945).
KCLeebrick:ms

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DIVISION OF JAPANESE AFFAIRS
DATE:
October 19, 1945
SUBJECT:
Interest of Australian Government in Formulation
of a Comprehensive and Coordinated Plan of
Reeducation in Japan.
PARTiciPAnts: Alan S. Watt, Counselor, Australian Legation,
Office of
Hugh Borton, JA.
FAB EASTERN AFFAIR?
VCT 2 2 1945
FW 894.42/9-2145
COPIES TO:
ere
1-1408
In a telephone conversation this morning
with Mr. Watt, I suggested that we would be glad
to talk informally and exchange ideas on the
above subject with a member of the Legation.
He promised to notify me on Monday as to who
would be available to talk with us next week.
I suggested that Mr. Bowles of CU, who is
also interested in the subject, might meet with
us.
natil.
12140
HB
JA:Borton:ALM

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DAT Ootob
SUBJECT:
Interest of Australian Government in Form
of a Plan of Reeducation in Japan.
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. W. D. Forsyth, Adviser on the Far
Beterndxisory
Commission, Australian meNtoF-sIA
Mr. Gordon Bowles, CU
Mr. Mugh Borton, JA
COPIES TO:
Mr. Bowles
office of
Mr. Dickover
AD CASTERN AFFAIRS
Mr. Blakeslee
5-1945
Mr. McIntyre and Mr. Forsyth called at my suggestion
/9-2145
to talk informally and exchange ideas on the subject of
reeducation in Japan. Mr. Forsyth, who is a consultant
to Dr. Evatt, in connection with the Far Eastern Advisory
Commission meetings, stated that he would send us a short
paper on this question which had no official status, but
which would indicate the thinking in the Australian
Government on the matter. He went on to say that he
feels the problem of reeducation in Japan an extremely
important one and hopes that the recent directive of
General MacArthur on the subject would not be the last
CS/LE
word on the matter. He suggested that it was probable
that a policy paper on education in Japan would be con-
sidered in the Far Eastern Advisory Commission, and
after approval would be sent to the field for guidance.
Mr. Forsyth continued that the education of women
should be stressed, the Imperial Rescript on education
should either be eliminated or given a much less important
position in education, all military aspects of education
should be eliminated and consideration should be given
to the use of Nisei.
N
Mr. Bortore
FILD
141945

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.94)
- 2 -
Bown
Mr. Bortsn then gave Mr. Forsyth a copy of a
paper he had drafted on the subjeot, stating that
it had no status in the Department but that we would
appreciate any comments they might have to make.
Mr. Forsyth promised that he would get in touch
with us again after he had had a chance to go over the
paper.
H03
JA:MBorton:mp

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.94)
DATE:
TO
A-B - Mr. Benton
WTStone
FPUBLIC
FROM : OIC - William T. Stond
MR. BENTON
SUBJECT:
JAN 8 1945
JAN 9 1946
I am attaching the final draft of the SWNCC paper on the
responsibility of the Department of State for the reorientation
of the Japanese. The paper in its present form has been approved
by the Far Eastern sub-committee of SWNCC and now goes to the
Joint Chiefs for their comment as a matter of priority. After
comment by the Joint Chiefs the paper will go to top SWNCC where
its approval would normally be a matter of form. The paper differs
from the draft given to you on Saturday principally as follows:
before going to top SWNCC.
on
(b)
The responsibility of the Department is "subject to
existing arrangements with respect to control machinery
for Japan and the channel of command for issuing
instructions to SCAP."
(c)
The document is more carefully phrased to avoid the
implication that the Department might have actual
supervision over implementation of the program in
the field.
For all practical purposes this paper confronts the Chief
of Staff and ultimately the Department with thechoice of placing
see
the responsibility in the Departnent of State or in the War
113
Department.
-44
RM/R
Cat
Attachment.
Reel, I read preoer
JaS
in legat
OIC:FAS:asb
denmon ty
cc: Leverich
shepirring Thes
of puterdaye
Bul
fagran in!

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.96)
A-B Mr. William Benton
TO
RAFNTON
SUBJECT:
1n Japan
At a meeting yesterday of the full State-War-Navy
pommittee (SWNCC), the paper on "Reorientation of the
Japanese," SWnCC 162/4 was approved.
This is the paper which was introduced following
the meeting in your office some weeks ago attended by
Capt. Zacharias and others. The paper was amended after
the deicsion of the Secretary and General Eisenhower
regarding the War Department responsibility for budget
and operations in occupied areas, making it cle ar that
the Department was not responsibie for recruiting and
maintaining personnel in Japan. As finally approved by
the committee, it placed responsibility for "basic planning
and "continuing development" of a U.S. program of re-
orientation and re-education with the Department of State
894,
Paragraph 4(d) reads: "The Department of State should
immediately undertake basic planning for and the develop-
ment of such program for the approval of SWNCC, and where
necessary, for that of the Far Eastern Commission. Such
a program should be implemented by SCAP and whare appre-
priate after coordination with SCAP by the State Depart-
ment in the United States."
It was quite apparent from the statements made by
-1546
the War and Navy Department representati ves that they
look to the State Department for the initiative and guidance
in the formulation of long-term policy in this field. This
responsibility properly belongs with the State Department.
In order to carry out our obligations, however, we will
require more high grade personnel in Washington than we
have been allowed by the Budget Bureau, I am taking this
matter up with Mr. Rosenman of the Budget immediately and,
on the basis of the SWNCc paper requesting a supplemental
Anal
appropriation in our budget for the fiscal year 1947.
meet at first opportunity onit.
Mita Tuyhes (t tehuler?), Bell, Jever
OIC:WTStone:mp
ih esnt up to thir, Nhvesaie
Two top men to come into tor

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.98)
ASSISTAN
Office Memorandum
UNMEED STAERS GOVERNMENT
TO
A-B Mr. William Benton
STATE
FROM
OIC William T. Stone
SUBJECT:
Department's responsibility for re-education policy in Japan
As a result of the action taken by the sWncc, placing
responsibility on the Department for basic planning and develop
ment of the U.S. program of reorientation and re-education in
Japan, I requested a meeting with the Bureau of the Budget on
February 21.
Present at the meeting were Messrs Rosepman, Campbell,
and Lawson of the Budget, and Schuler and myself for OIC.
 pointed out that the OIc budget and staff approved by the
Budget Bureau was totally inadequate to carry out the responsi-
bility now placed upon the Department by SWNCC. The present
staff for work on Japan in Washington consists of only six
officers (two of which are junior assistants)and three clerks.
The minimum personnel required to work on formulation of long-
term policy and basic planning would be twelve to thirteen
officers and nine or ten clerical and administrative assistants.
In addition, it will be necessary to call together the best
qualified authorities available in the United States for advice
and assistance in the formulation of policy statements nd basic
planning.
In view of the urgency attached to this program by
SWNCC I asked the Budget Bureau to advise us informally on the
following points:
1) Is it permissible for us to tell the Appropriations
Committee at our hearings of the increased responsibility
placed on the Department in this field?
-2296
(The representatives of the Budget Bureau agreed
RM/R
that we could inform the Appropriations Committee
Anal.
of the SWNCC paper and pointmi out the increased
Rev.
responsibility which it places upon us.)
Cat.L
2) Would it be possible for us to request additional
funds for our occupation division in view of the fact that
the SWNCC action had been taken after our budget was sent
to'Congress?
(The representatives of the Budget Bureau
pointed out that we could not alter the estimates
sent to Congress without again securing the formal

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
approval of the Director of the Budget and the
President. This would require considerable time
and would probably be turned down on the ground
that the Secretary of State could provide the
additional amounts from his total budget.)
3) If we do not submit the revised estimate now
could we advise the Appropriations Committee that we will
probably come up for a supplemental estimate la ter in the
year?
(The Budget Bureau representatives agreed
that we could make such a statement. They suggested
that we use the case of Japan to point out the need
for fle xibility in our entire program; that we could
emphasize the importance of our responsibility for
policy in Japan, Germany and other occupied areas
and point out that similar responsibilities are
likely to be placed on the Department in related
fields; therefore, we can only do the job effectively
if our funds are not cut below the anger point.)
In view of the above, I propose to adopt the following
procedure:
1) To inform the Appropriations Committee (off the
record) of the SWNCC directive, stressing the importance of the
job imposed on the Department and specifically on OIC.
2) Indicate to the Committee the possibility of a
supplemental estimate if our full budget is not approved.
3) To appoint immediately an advisory committee, com-
posed of eight or ten of the best qualified people in the United
States to advise us on long-term re-education policies for Japan.
This advisory group will be selected immediately and the members
appointed as consultants or advisers to the Department. We have
funds to cover this expense until June 30, 1946. Frank Schuler
is preparing a panel of names and will be ready to discuss the
list next week. Several members of the panel may be drawn from
the advis ory group which is about to leave for Japan.
4) The advisory group will be put to work immediately
on the revision of the existing policy directive and will work
with Schuler.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.96)
AUSTRALIAN L
ASHINGTON,D.C.
21st September,
0.425/45.
OFFICE
H3
Sir,
I have the honour to inform you that information received some
days ago by the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia suggests
that the United States Government may have under urgent consideration
proposals for a master plan for the re-education of the Japanese which
XR
may shortly be sent as a directive to the Supreme Allied Commander in
Japan. Regional Broadcasting Directives based upen this plan might
894.42/9-2145
thereupon be issued in order to secure coordination regarding broad-
casting in Australia and elsewhere directed towards the Far East.
CONTROL
The Australian Government has now advised me by telegram that
it supports the view that a comprehensive and coordinated plan of re-
education is both desirable and nedessary, and is desirous of participat-
ing in the formulation of such a plan in the light of Australian
experience during the war in the Pacific. My Government would hope,
therefore, that it would have the opportunity to consider any such plan
and to contribute its views thereon before the plan becomes mandatory
upon General MacArthur.
I should be grateful for any information you may feel in a
CS/D
position to communicate regarding the formulation and adoption of such
a plan, and also for any action which can be taken with a view to
ensuring that the views of the Australian Government on this subject
ad
can be takennfmto account before its final adoption.
ad
Anal.
a
I have the honour to be,
e~
NOV 6-1945
Cat.
With the highest consideration,
FILHD
The Honsurable Dean Acheson;
Sir,
Acting Secretary of State of
Your obedient servant
the United States,
Washington, D.C.

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.96)
FE - Mr. Vincent
DATE:
TO
FE - Mr. Blakeslee
FROM
SUBJECT:
NOV 8 1945
The Australian Minister, Sir Frederie Egglesten,,will
doubtless shortly express to the State Beparsmemt the
desire of the Australian Goverament to partieipate in some
measure in the preparation of the plans fer the reedueation
of the Japanese.
A seeretary of the Legation has just explained to me
Sir Frederie's views: General MacArthur is Supreme Gom-
mander for the Allied Powers. Australia has contributed to
the defeat of the Japanese. The Australian Government and
the Australian people have given much thought to the preblem
of the reeducation of the Japanese, and have seme derinite
suggestions to offer. It is reported that the United States
Government has under preparation plans for the reorientation
and reeducation of the Japanese which will soon be sent to
the Supreme Commander to be carried out on behalr of the
Allied Powers.
The Australian Legation therefore would greatly appree-
1ate it if the Legation should be permitted te see these
drafts while they are still on the working level, so that
the Legation might offer such suggestions as it may deem
helprul.
CS/LE
XR
JanAN)
740.00119
CONTRIL
DCR - EUR Unit
NOV 1 4 1945
Anal.
FILDD
Rev.
at.
FE/R:GHB/hmh
Dist.

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.96)
July 27, 1945
OPI - Mr. Dickey:
Joe Grew banded me the attached,
informing me that it was written by Sir George
Sanson, who is, as you know, the principal
non-Japanese authority on Japan. Mr. Grew
indicated tlat Sir George hud stated his views
also. The implications as regards a progra
FW994.42
of reeducation ror Japan are obvious. I wish
you wouid reflect on the problem whether or
not we shoulu tare account of t i: point of
viow in drafting basic papers, if any are to
be arafted on Japanese reeducation.
Archibald MacLeish
Enclosura
copy of two-page typewritten material, no date, no signature.
A-/AMacL/tb

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.95)
May 30, 1945
CU - Dr: Hovde:
A-D - Mr. Dooman:
Mr. Gordon T. Bowles of the Division of
Cultural Cooperation will represent that Divi-
sion and my office in the consideration of the
probl of Japanese reçcucation, a matter to
which the Seoretury has asksd me to give special
attention.
I woula appreciate it if I coulc be kept
ourrently informed through Mr. Bowles of die-
cussions of the problem, and if projected state-
ments of Departmental policy might be sub-
mitted to me through the same channel.
Aranibalu macLeisn
A-M/AMaOL/tb

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.84)
DC.R
121947
filas
Ia regly rafer to
AXO
894.42/11-1747
S
(A)
11947
y deer Profeseor Hall:
SIAE
Bne reosipt is acknowlsdged of your letter of evember 17.
1947. with ragard to a New York Times deapateia uader a Makge
dataline of Bovamber 12, Ig47. attributing to Nr. Williem J.
Sabald, Ghmirman of the Allied Counail for Japen. cartmin
alleged remmrks in regard to the deceatralirasion of the
Japsnese adusmtiona! aystes.
Ln reply you are informed that the mmatea on we iim
Council just recaived frem Tokye imdioate that Mr. Sahald did
zot wake the atatamants attributed to him im the Mew Yerk Timse
despaten under raference. It appeers insteed thet cartatn
remerke en the gmeral subjeet af the docentralieatien of tise
Japenese educational syete mde ty Nr. Patricx Shew, tihse
British Commomealth member of she Council, may heve provided
the besis for the arroneous roport.
In this connsotion and for your further infermmtion, it
may be stated that thure has besn mo chemge in the "Peliey fer
the Revision of the Jepansae Edncasionel Syatas" adopted y the
Aar Saetern Commission on Narch 27. 1947.
Sinceroly yours.
CS
AV
Frenk A. Schaler, Jr.
Chief, Japeneso-Keresn Branch
Divisicn of Cupted Aroms
894.42
Professor Wobert King Ball.
Temchers Colle.
Columda Uniseraity.
New York 27. Row York.
148

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.96)
TEACHERS COLLEGE
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY
NEW YORK 27, N. Y.
(ADO)
Mr. Frank A. Schuler, Jr.
Chief, Japanese-Korean Branch
FEB 24 1948
Division of Occupied Areas
BEPATRENT OLE ONE
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Lear Mr. chuler:
On 7 February 1948 the New York Times carried a special dispatch
from Tokyo,dated February 6, under the heading "Chaplains to Scan Tokyo
Textbooks". The story states that because some of the textbook auth-
894.42/2-1848
ors in Janan have written lessons which cast some doubt on the authen-
ticity of certain of the Bible stories, pressure has been brought to
xR
have a Christian board representing the Occupation pass on such sec-
4.404
tions. It goes on to state that the Allied Headquarters has decided
to establish a board of chaplains to review all such material before
it is included in the official textbooks.
This seems to be a radical shift in policy for a number of rea-
sons. The first is that it has been an established policy in Head-
quarters fron the beginning of the occupation that chaplains in the
military services should have nothing to do with questions of reli-
gious policy in the Japanese community. The second is that Headquar-
ters annears now to have established an ecclesiastical board which is
going to determine what the Japanese shall be told about a religious
matter, clearly a violation of the religjous freedom which has been
promised the Japanese and which is basic to our entire policy. And
finally, this action seems to be a clear break with prior policy deal-
ing with the criteria of accentability of material presented for the
national textbooks, which to the best of my knowledge has never includ-
ed anything which limits the historical interpretation of the Japanese
on matters which have a relivious siznificance.
You might be interested in the reaction which I have noticed in
my classes here at the university. I have a number of students with
long residence in Japan, and in fact a number who have been Christian
missionaries in Japan, and it is the universal and very positive opin-
ion of these peonle that this is an extremely unwise policy. They
say, and my own experience would indicate, that this may prove to be
a very undesirable move. It smacks of conducting a Christian mission-
ary activity under the uise of Occupational censorship; and even for
people who have the reatest respect ror and nersonal interest in the
Christian missionary movement in Janan, such a policy appears to be
quite inconsistent with our moral and political position.
—2
2
hs
0-13

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.95)
Mr. Frank A. Schuler, Jr.
-2-
18 February 1948
Could you send me, first, a statement as to whether or not this
news dispatch is correct; and, secondly, a statement of the basic
United States policy under which such local action by the CI&E was
taken?
Very truly yours,
Kabut . e
ROBERT KING HALL
RKH:M

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.99)
"I am just in receipt of your letter of January l2th enolo-
sing a clipping from the Denver Register with reference errors
which appeared in the early volumes of the Japanese language text
of the "History of the West" which was issued for optional study
only in the higher grades of the Japanese schools. Fortunately
the errors were detected shortly after the first release and
corrective action was taken at once. In fact, the sentence to
which particular exception rightly was taken was ordered deleted,
but through a mistake by the Japanese found its way into the
Japanese text. For this failure strictly to follow instructions,
both the author and the publisher were severely disciplined. The
persons in this headquarters who pass upon the accuracy of context
bearing upon Christianity written under Japanese authorship for
school study are devout Christian leaders of several denomina-
tions - but you must understand that their task is rendered ex-
tremely difficult both by the language differences which rise to
harass all occupational effort and the need to find an acceptable
common ground of reconciliation on points in which there exist
differing views among the denominations. To provide added safe-
guard against the infiltration of similar objectionable material
into the Japanese texts, steps have now been taken to submit all
proposed discussion of Christianity to a Board of Chaplains, com-
prising all Christian denominations present... We have in our
favor the complete spiritual vacuum left in the wake of war and
defeat and destruction which obliterated the very foundations to
those false concepts on wnich the Japanese heretofore have de-
pended for guidance, sustenance and protection. Through daily
contact with our American men and women who are here engaged in
tne reshaping of Japan's future, there is penetrating into the
Japanese mind the noble influences which find their origin and
their inspiration in the American home. These influences are
rapidly bearing fruit, and apart from the great numbers who are
coming to embrace the Christian Faith, a whole population is
coming to understand and cherish its underlying principles and
ideals.
"With my hearty thanks for bringing this matter so promptly
to my attention, I am,
Faithfully yours,
Douglas MacArthur"

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.96)
22.
COMMITTEE ON
WOMEN IN WORLD AFFAIRS
January 22, 1946
Chairman
Dr. EMILY HicKMAn
27 Séaman Strect
New Brunswick, N. J.
FFAIRS
Secretary-Traasurer
Miss Helen Raebeck
Secretary James F. Byrnes
JAN :1946
1819 Broadway
Department of State
New York 23. N. Y.
Washington, D. C.
TMENT OF STATE
OFFICERS
Miss Mary E. Woolley
My dear Secretary Byrnes:
Honorary Chairman
Dr. EMILY HICKMAN
Chairman
The Co mittee on Women in World Affairs
Mrs. Edgerton Parsons
Vice-Chairman
is concerned to e that qualified women are in-
Miss Helen Raebeck
cluded in American delegations to conferences which
Secretary-Treasurer
Mrs. FReDericK W. VICHeRT
deal with public affairs. We noticed that a number
Recording Secretary
of educators were listed to advise about an educa-
Mrs. JAMeS IRWIN
tional system in Japan. Of the thirty listed only
Chairman, Washinglon Committee
two were women. Inasmuch as women are much the
SPONSORS
largest percentage of the educators in this country,
Mrs. Carrie CHapman Catt
Mrs. J. Borden Harriman
and as the people to be educated in Japan are many
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
of them women, it seems to us that certainly there
894.42/1-2246
should be more women in this group. We think that
Miss Louise Bache
Mrs. DoroTly BellancA
even now additional women should be named. May we
Dr. Margaret E. Burton
suggest in the field of adult education: Miss Hilda
Mrs. William H. Davis
Miss Dorothy Detzer
Smith of the Hudson Shore Labor School, N. Y.; Mrs.
Mrs. Betty Hawley DoneLlY
Dorothy Canfield Fisher, Mrs. Bonaro Overstreet, and
Mrs. MAxWeLL EHRLICH
Miss Jane Evans
Miss Winifred Fisher of the American Association for
Miss Edith Goode
Adult Education. In the field of child education we
Mrs. E. Milo Greene
would suggest: Katherine Taylor, Shady Hill School,
Miss Helen Havener
Mrs. ArTHur C. HoldEn
Cambridge, Mass.; and Miss Gertrude Warren of the
Miss Olive H. Huston
4-H Clubs, Department of Agriculture.
JUDGE DOROTHY KENYON
Judge Anna M. Kross
Mrs. Henry Goddard LeacH
We are suggesting to you names both for
Mrs. Paul. PHelPs Morand
Mrs. Estelle Massey Riddle
the purpose of enlarging the number cf women in the
Miss JosePIne SCHaIn
group and also to broaden the fields represented by
Mrs. WiLlian Dick SPORBORG
the group. Many of the names of those appointed were
in the field of university education. If it is pos-
sible to extend the list and include some of these
suggestions, we should be gratified.
Sincerely,
Cmily Hutman
CS
Emily Hickman
EH:BVR
Chairman
894.42
OCT 2.
LCD
1-2246

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.97)
COMMITTEE ON
WOMEN IN WORLD AFFAIRS
January 22, 1946
Chairman
Dr. Emily Hickman
27 Seaman Strect
New Brunswick. N. J.
Secretary-Treasurer
Miss Helen Raebeck
President Harry S. Truman
1819 Broadway
New York 23. N. Y.
The White House
Washington, D. C.
OFFICERS
Miss Mary E. WoolleY
Honorary Chairman
My dear President Truman:
Dr. EMILY HICKMAN
Chairman
Mrs. Edgerton Parsons
The Committee on Women in World Affairs
Vice-Chairman
is concerned to see that qualified women are in-
Miss Helen Raebeck
Secretary-Treasurer
cluded in "merican delegations to conferences which
Mrs. FreDerick W. VICHeRt
deal with public affairs. We noticed that a number
894.42/
Recording Secretary
Mrs. JAMeS IRWIN
of educators were listed to advise about an e duca-
Chairman, Washinglon Committee
tional system in Japan. Of the thirty listed only
SPONSORS
two were women. Inasmuch as women are much the
Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt
largest percentage of the educators in this country,
Mrs. J. Borden Harriman
and as the people to be educated in Japan are many
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
of them women, it seems to us that certainly there
Miss Louise Bache
should be more women in this group. We think that
Mrs. DorotHy BellancA
even now additional women should be named. May we
Dr. Margaret E. Burton
Mrs. William H. Davis
suggest in the field of adult education: Miss Hilda
Miss Dorothy Detzer
Smith of the Hudson Shore Labor School, N. Y.; Mrs.
Mrs. Betty Hawley Donelly
Mrs. Maxwell EHrlicH
Dorothy Canfield Fisher, Mrs. Bonaro Overstreet, and
Miss Jane Evans
Miss Winifred Fisher of the American Association for
Miss Edith Goode
Mrs. E. Milo Greene
Adult Education. In the field of child education we
Miss Helen Havener
wculd suggest: Katherine Taylor, Shady Hill School,
Mrs. ArtHur C. HoldEn
Miss Olive H. Huston
Cambridge, Mass.; and Miss Gertrude Warren of the
JudgE DOrotHY KenYOn
4-H Clubs, Department of Agriculture.
Judge AnnA M. Kross
Mrs. Henry Goddard Leacl!
Mrs. Paul PHelps Morand
We are suggesting to you names both for
Mrs. Estelle Massey Riddle
the purpose of enlarging the number of women in the
Miss JosePHIne SCHaIN
MRS. WILLIAM DICK SPORBORG
group and also to broaden the fields represented by
the group. Many of the names of those appointed were
in the field of university education. If it is pos-
sible to extend the list and include some of these
suggestions, we should be gratified.
Sincerely,
Cuity Huba
Emily Hickman
EH:BVR
Chairman

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.98)
Form DS-10
Department of
Datd
6-1-45
Sxate
2-4-46
REFERENCE ELIP
To:
Gardon Bowles
Advise
Note & Return
Approve & Return
Note & File
As You Requested
Per Telephone Talk
Attention
Previous Correspon.
Attach File
Priority Action
Comment & Return
Reconsider
Consider
Recommend Action
Copying
Record
Correct
Reply
File
Return to Sender
Follow-up
Rewrite
HoId
Signature Required
Initials Needed
See Me
Investigate & Report
Take Action
Instruct
Transfer
Justify
Type
Keep Me Advised
Verify
Legal Matter
Reply for Signature of
Memo Required
In Buuton
Not Interested
Note & Destroy
Note & Forward
REMARKS:
ack 2//46
gTB
From
A -B
This Form Printed on Salvaged Stock

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.96)
WAR DEPARTMENT
CIVIL AFFAIRS DIVISION
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
STANT
MMR. BENION
FEEB41946
Honorable William Benton
Assistant Seoretary of State
Dear Mr. Benton:
The Secretary of War has referred to me the inolosed
letter from Dr. Emily Hiokman, Chairman of the Committee
on Women in World Affairs, in whioh she requests that qual-
ified women educators be included in the group of eduoators
going to Japan to assist in reestablishing the educational
system.
In view of the fact that the Department of State has
2
assumed the responsibility for the reoruitment and final
selection of the proposed educational mission, I am trans-
mitting Dr. Hickman's letter to you for whatever action you
deem advisable.
Sincerely yours,
cs/v
d
J.  HILLDRING
Major General
Inol:
Direotor, Civil Affairs Division
Ltr fm Dr Hickman
(atd 22 Jan 46)
SEP 3 1948
FILED
2
LOD UNIT
022
Anal.
Rev.
Cat.
new
SAVE
List.

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.96)
COMMITTEE ON
WOMEN IN WORLD FRAIREEARTMENT
RECEIVED
January 22, 1946
SECRETARY'S OFFICE
Chairman
Dr. Emily Hickman
1946 JAN 24 PM 1:17
27 Seaman Street
New Brunswick, N. J.
Secretary-Treasurer
Miss Helen Raebeck
Secretary Robert Patterson
1819 Broadway
War Department
New York 23. N. Y.
Washington, D. C.
OFFICERS
27/13/44
Miss Mary E. WoolleY
My dear Secretary Patterson:
Honorary Chairman
Dr. EMILY HICKMAN
Chairman
The Committee on Women in World Affairs is
Mrs. Edgerton Parsons
n
Vice-Chairman
concerned to see that qualified women are included
Miss Helen Raebeck
in American delegations to conferences which deal
a
Secretary-Treasurer
Mrs. Frederick W. VIcHeRt
with public affairs. We noticed that a number of
Recording Secretary
educators were listed to advise about an educational
Mrs. James IrWIN
Chairman, Washinglon Commit
system in Japan. Of the thirty listed only two were
women. In as much as women are much the largest per
SPONSORS
centage of the educators of this country, and as the
Mrs. Carrie CHapman Catt
Mrs. J. Borden Harriman
it seems to us that certainly there should be more
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
women in this group. We think that even now addi-
Miss Louise Bache
Mrs. DorotHy BellancA
tional women should be named. May we suggest, in
Dr. Margaret E. Burton
the field of adult education:Miss Hilda Smith of
Mrs. William H. Davis
Miss Dorothy Detzer
the Hudson Shore Labor School, N.Y.Mrs. Dorothy
Mrs. Betty Hawley DonellY
Canfield Fisher, Mrs. Bonaro Overstreet, and Miss
Mrs. Maxwell EHrlicH
Miss Jane Evans
Winifred Fisher of the American Association for
Miss Edith Goode
Adult Education.In the field of child education
Mrs. E. Milo Greene
Miss Helen Havener
we would suggest: Katherine Taylor,VShady Hill
Mrs. ArtHur C. Holden
School, Cambridge, Mass.; and Miss Gertrude Warren,
Miss OLive H. Huston
Judge DorotHY KenYon
of the 4-H Clubs, Department of Agriculture.
Judge Anna M. Kross
Mrs. Henry Goddard LeacH
We are suggesting to you names both for
Mrs. Paul PHelps Morand
Mrs. Estelle Massey Riddle
the purpose of enlarging the number of women in
Miss JosePHIne SCHaIn
the group and also to broaden the fields represented
Mrs. Willian Dick SporborG
by the group. Many of the names of those appointed
were in the field of university education. If it
is possible to extend the list and include some of
these suggestions, we should be gratified.
2
Sincerely,
)Emily Hickman
EH:BVR
Chairman
7343

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
COMMITTEE
Miss Marika F. Allen
Mrs. William Howard Good
Mrs. Elizabeth Penrose
Miss Harriett M. Allyn
Mrs. Malbone Graham
Mrs. Lena Madesin Phillips
Miss Henrietta Additon
Mrs. B. Wallace Hamilton
Mrs. Irena Broderick Price
Miss Mary Anderson
Mrs. W. J. Harvest
Mrs. Alexander Purves
Miss Elsie Austin
Mrs. Bartlett B. Heard
Dr. Elaine P. Ralli
Miss Gertrude Baer
Mrs. Irene T. Heineman
Dr. Helena T. Ratterman
Mrs. Hernan J. Bakker
Mrs. Warwick B.  Hobart
Miss Marguerite Rawalt
Miss Margaret Culkin Banning
Miss Joan A. Hodson
Mrs. Evelyn Richman
Miss Bernice Baxter
Miss Ruth I loulton
Dr. Helen Dwight Reid
Miss Emma F. Baxter
Judge Lucy Howorth
Mrs. Charles Roe
Miss Bessie Beatty
Mrs. Willis Arnold Huntley
Mrs. Ruth Bryan Rohde
Mrs. Vera W. Beggs
Miss Fannie Hurst
Miss Flora Rothenberg
Mrs. Stdney Borg
Mrs. Alice Page Jennings
Mrs. William S. Rusk
Mrs, Frank G. Boudreau
Mrs. F..Robertson Jones
Mrs. M. Louise Rutherford
Miss Mary Bray
Mrs. Karl J. Kaufmann
Miss Juanita J. Saddle
Miss S. P. Breckinridge
Mrs. Leo Kes. el
Mrs. Harry Lane Schmelz
Miss Elsie Brown
Mrs. Mabel Kirkbride
Mrs. Arthur David Schalte
Mrs. Evaline M. Burns
Miss Ruth L. Kirkbride
Mrs. Arthur H. Scribner
Mrs. J. Birdsall Calkins
Miss Ruth L. Koch
Miss Dorothy Sells
Mrs. Andrew Carey
Miss Grace E. Koerner
Miss Sara Senie
Mrs. William F. Carey
Mrs. Albert D. Lasker
Mrs. Max C. Sloss
Mrs. E. C. Carter
Mrs. Wales Latham
Mrs. Jessie Merrick Smith
Mrs. Franklin Chase
Dean Elizabeth Lawson
Mrs. Pauline Smith
Miss Mary Ashby Cheek
Miss Agnes B. Leahy
Mrs. O. C. Sommerich
Mrs. J. Jeannette Clark
Miss Katherine F. Lentoot
Mrs. Paula E. Spratt
Mrs. Aaron Coen
Miss Eugenie Leonard
Miss May Steed
Mrs. Bertell Collins
Miss Kate Lewis
Miss Sophia M. Steese
Miss Mary M. Connelly
Mrs. Inez B. Madsen
Dr. Hilda Threlkeld
Dean Margaret T. Corwin
Mrs. Burnett Mahon
Miss Jane H. Todd
Miss Edesse Dahlgren
Mrs. H. E. Maltby
Mrs. Leslie Tompkins
Mrs. John S. Dalrymple
Mrs. Anna Mann
Miss Sarah Wambaugh
Mrs. Ambrose N. Diehl
Miss Jeanette Marks
Miss Sue Weddell
Miss Ethel B. Dietrich
Miss Edith M. May
Mrs. Ruth G. Weintraub
Miss Mary A. Dingman
Miss Isabelle Mac Causland
Mrs. Joseph M. Welt
Mrs. Paul Douglas
Mrs. Charles E. Merriam
Miss Earlene White
Miss Elizabeth Eastman
Mrs. Lucille E. Miche
Mrs. Norman deR. Whitehouse
Miss Louise Fitch
Mrs. John R. Milligan
Mrs. Aryness Joy Wickens
Mts. George B. Ford
Mrs. Faye L.. Mitchell
Miss Clara M. Winch
Mrs. L. Henry Fradkin
Mrs. Laura Puffer Morgan
Miss Rosalie Wolf
Miss Bernice R. Gaedde
Mrs. Alfred Mudge
Prof. Margurst Mary Wood
Miss Marian J. Gardiner
Mts. Cecil Murphy
Mrs. Stanley P. Woodard
Mrs. William L. Garrison III
Miss Mabel Newcomer
Mrs. E. S. Woodward
Mrs. Susan Brandeis Gilbert
Mrs. Mary T. Norton
Dr. Alice Stone Woolley
Mrs. Lillian M. Gilbreth
Mts. C. Reinold Noyes
Miss Mabel C. Yensen
Miss Mary B. Gilson
Mrs. Morgan Padelford
Miss Mary Yost
MEMBER ORGANIZATIONS
National Women's Party • Women's Intemational League for Peace and Freedom • National Federa-
tion of Temple Sisterhoods • Zonta International • National Council of Jewish Women • National
Council of Negro Women • Farmers Educational and Cooperative Union of Ametica •
National
Council of Women of the United States • National Board. Young Women's Christian Association
National Federation of Business and Professional W'omen's Clubs.

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.95)
233074
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERIGA
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
DIVICION
010 0
Tokyo, Japan, February 21, 1946
(420)
No. 270
946
DC/R
Department uf State
SUBJECT:
on Educational Reform
1FE/R
10R1
EO S
IFEC
DIVISION OF
The Bonorable
946
3
MAY
1946
MAR
The Seomotary of State,
894.42/2-2146
ECNED
hington.
ORDS
Sir:
I have she honor to transmit copies of two memoranda
pre ented to this Office by WATANABE Chugo, "Gist of Proposed
Reform of Education" and"Practical Application of the duca-
tional Reform Plan". Mr. WATANABE is a graduate of St. Paul'
University, Tokyo. For a mumber of years he has been Director
of the Japan Trade Promotion Association. He promoted and led
several trips of Japanese businessmen to the United States. He
is now interested in encouraging political, educational, eco-
nomic, and religious reforms. Mr. WATANABE came to see us
after talking with an officer in the Education Division of
Civil Information and Education Section, SCaP, and with offi-
cials in the Japanese Ministry of Education. The suggestion
CS/LF
to talk with us came from SAkOMIZU Hisatsune, a former Cabinet
Secretary.
(Sppa.c)
The author could well have combined the two papers.
The first is a brief statement of objectives, the second an
elaboration of procedure to make the plans effective. The
proposals include: a revision of the entire school system as
to organization, administration, and curriculum; the adoption
of co-education; the dispersal from Tokyo to the prefectures
of the national universities: the reorganization of teacher
training so thet it is a part of university education or at
least on that level; and the reorganisation of education fer
the professions. These documents are believed to be repri-
sentative of the thinking of several influential Japanese
educational and political leaders.
It is believed that Mr. WATANABE's proposals have much
merit. Because of his lack of influence with officials of
the Education Ministry and of the Government, resulting part-
ly from the fact that he is not a graduate of Imperial Univer-
FILED
sity or of one of the "accepted schools", it is unlikely that
his ideas will have any immediate or direct influence on
02946
official educational reforms and reorganisation. Mr. MATANAB
however, is well acquainted in political circles, especially
2
DCR NE Unit
among
na
Rt
Dar E/y.5
HECTO
SENT TO ER
Dist.

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.98)
2
among independent candidates for the Diet. His views are said
already to have influenced the thinking of the Progressive
Party on education. It may be that he will in future exert
some direct influence on reforms in education.
Respectfully yours,
Narusisho
Max W. Bishop
Foreign Service Officer
Enclosures:
1. Memorandum: "Gist of Pro-
posed Reform of Education".
2.
Memorandum: "Practical Appli-
cation of the Educational
Reform Plan".
Original and hectograph to Department
Copy for General Headquarters, SCAP
842
KCLeebrick: jwb

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch No. 270 dated February 21, 1946,
from the Office of the United States Political Adviser, Tokyo,
Japan, on the subject "Transmission of Two Statements by
WATANABE Chugo on Educational Reform".
GIST OF PROPOSED REFORM OF EDUCATION
A. Substantial Reform.
1. Renew the historical idea of people by scientific re-
novation in Japenese history, and correct the militaristic
misleading on national polity.
2. Restore the historical beauty and popular satisfaction in
direct harmony and concord between Tenno and people by
scientific clearing of history and by conducting the democra-
tic government - the government of the people, by the
people, for the people - under the rein of Tenno.
3. Social training end its morality should be extremely em-
phasized, avoiding to lean upon the existing family system
end its morelity.
4. Self-respect policy, exclusionism and jingoism should be
wiped out by spread of internationalism and pacifism.
5. Merits an demerits of both capitalism and socialism should
be well balanced in bringing the people back to effort and
labor in order to sustain and revive the new Japan.
6. Root up the cramming system of education attended by the
state textbooks and quick memory test over them, and all the
examination systems existing should be rationally improved.
7. Aim of school education should be taken on moral culture,
studious spirit and physical training (labor discipline
inclusive). The examination methods should cover all the
stated points so as to disdain the makeshift tendency and
to realize the exertion for incessant study.
place
8. Pragmatic education should be taken in/of overemphasized
theoretical education now existing, keeping touch with
practical living of the people.
9. Education of national language should be simplified by
decreasing the use of Chinese letters, wasted time end
toil for which are to be turned to the other scientific
studies.
All the technicel terms should be standardized, libraries
be increased, and laboratories be affiliated.
10. English

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
10. English education should aim ii. practical use, and
be greatly improved both in methods and terms, through
which enlighten the people in culturism, elevating the
people in international knowledge and in fair criticism.
B. Proposed School System.
1. Public School - "KOMIN-GAKKO" - (co-educational system)
should be taken in place of existing national school -
"KOKUMIN-GAKKO", to extend democratic educetion to all
citizens for 8 years compulsorily.
The proposed system holds 16 classes in all, 2 classes
for each of eight years, matriculating 2 times a year
(spring and autumn) according to the birth of pupils.
Skipping one class at a time, 2 years (4 classes)
maximum all through the eight years, should be allowed
for the talented pupil qualified, in order to avoid the
defects of the existing u Torm education.
2. All the middle schools existing should be reorganized
into Middle School (CHUGAkkO) and Girls' Middle School
(JOSHI-CHUGAKKO), both being 3 year system, generaliz-
ing all the subjects in each school, and the specialized
middle school system existing must be abolished.
Subjects in agriculture, commerce and technology shall
be optional according to the unit of the school course
preferred by the desire of the student.
Each middle school holds 6 classes altogether, 2 classes
in each year, enrolling students twice (spring and autumn)
a year without entrance examination in response to the
public school system stated above.
Capacity of school accomodetion will be greatly increased
by the proposed system.
3. Quarter system - spring, summer, autumn and winter
should be taken in the proposed college courses of each
university (co-educational system) open to all the students
according to their qualifications.
Credit of students should be rationally graded in con-
papers end in personal characteristios, in addition to
the written examination of retentive power so far prevail-
ed.
4. All the state universities and colleges existing should
be transferred to each prefectural government according
to their localities situated, and each local government
(Hokkaido being rated as 3 prefectures) is requested to
support 1 to 3 universities in ratio of its population.
Each

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
3
Lach proposed university affiliates the state and
public institutes such as colleges, laboratories
and research stations existing, moving of which are
expected if necessary.
Especially the normal schools and teachers† colleges
must be taken into the proposed university as an
educational course.
Special treatment by way of state or public support
to the students in the said normal schools and
colleges should be abolished.
5. 4 year system shall be taken in each college course
(except 6 to 7 years system in medical course), 2
years in the post-graduate course and 3 years in
the graduate school of each proposed university.
Degree of M.D. should be conferred to all the graduates
in medical course, GAkUSHI (i.e. A.M.) to those who
finished the post-graduate course, and Doctorate to
those qualified in thesis according to their subjects
specialized.
6. Public school teacher, as a rule, must be college
graduats in educational course, middle school teacher
must have qualifications in the post-graduate course,
and professors should be chosen from those who com-
pleted the graduate school or from Doctors, but free
roads from school formality should be always open for
talented persons self-studied.
7. School teachers should be obliged to promote their
studies 3 to 6 months at least for every three years,
taking summer courses in connection with the proposed
university.
College graduates unemployed at present (except the
demobilized officers in Army and Navy) may be adopted
to the special training school for half a year to be
brought up as leaders in pragmatic education and in'
democracy, as a counter plan for the present period.
Existing school teachers should enlighten and elevate
their learning, attending to lectures or taking courses
in the proposed university.
Quite many unqualified teachers are expected to find
their own way out of this educational reform.
Priests and monks in any religion who are taking
additional post in public school should be obliged to
either one.
8. Institutes,

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
8. Institutes, either private or public, in special
professional education, e.g., sewing, cookery,
nursing, language, midwifery, navigation, fishery,
manufacturing of agricultural or aquatic products,
tonsorial arts, crafts, photography, tailoring,
mechanics, etc., etc., should be well equipped and
accommodated under 2 year system at most, and be
strictly supervised according to the middle school
regulations.
9. Executive power regarding selection of textbooks,
superintendencyand administration of public schools,
lies on decision of board of trustees, faculty meeting,
committee meeting of local government with consent of
committee meeting of central government (Monbusho).
School inspectors existing both in local and central
governments should be abolished.
10. The committee meeting of local government should
execute the administrative power on public schools,
middle schools, colleges and universities, with
report to and consent of the central government.
All the school system regulations should be establish-
ed and supervised by the committee meeting of. the
central government.
Board of directors or trustees of each school,
committee meetings of both local and central govern-
ments should be consisted of good reputed able persons,
learned or experienced, elected to represent various
classes of people by democretic means.
11. Most of the private colleges and universities gather-
ed so many in big cities, ere requested to remove to
any locality of their choice, thus preventing the
useless expansion of consuming cities, anddelivering
students from the ill effects caused by peddling lectures
so far prevailed.
Board of trustees of private schools shall be responsible
for the school administration.
School system, appointment or dismissal of teachers and
professors and financial supervision of the same should
have the consent of the committee meeting of the central
government.
12. Pay to the teachers and professors must be greatly in-
creased. They are not to be officialized nor pensioned,
yet their study should be kept free and independent by
all means.
Authorized decisions in meetings of guardians, alumni,
faculties, directors or trustees, committees of local
and central governments, shall be powerful in the
order stated above, and the conference of representatives
from all the meetings above mentioned, takes the supreme
power when necessary.
C. Aims

=== Page 89 === (confidence 1.00)
C. Aims of Reform.
1. Useless classification of elementary course (compulsory
6 years) and higher course (optional 2 years) in the
national school existing, gives an inferior feeling to
those who are destined to remain in the said optional
course, after sending their comrades up to middle schools -
that could be one of the sources that results the survility
and prejudice among farmers and laborers - should be wiped
out by the new scheme.
Majority of the public school pupils will be easily pull-
ed up to the middle schools of 3 year system to receive
the pregmatic (or rather professional) education, even
after their prolonged compulsory course, thus practically
elevating the culture of people as a whole.
2. The gap caused by the disparity of age will be avoided
by the 2 class system for each school year, and the de-
fects in uniform education shall be adjusted by the skipping
system for the pupil of ability, for which a strict and
rational valuation of the candidate should be provided.
 3. The proposed middle school system seems to be graded as
the existing middle school, judging from its school years,
but its standard shall be raised essentially a bit higher
than that by the pragmatic education to be realized in
the substantial reform of subjects and by the practical
rationalization of optional courses, utilizing the time
and toil wasted so far for the military drill and for
tiresome study in Chinese letters.
Practical English shall be required in every courses in
middle school, while the second and third foreign languages
being optional.
4. The high schools, "KOTO-GAKKO", existing, should be
thoroughly abolished as being the cradle of egoistic
bureaucracy and school.fanaticism.
The special situation of the same as the preparatory
school promised to the s tate universities pulls such a
crazy rush to the entrance examination, proudly displayed
as the narrow gate to the highest intellectualism.
5. By being transferred from state to prefecture, universities,
colleges, and all other educational institutes existing,
shall be released from all the nationalistic influences,
that have misused those organs so far as if they are the
training school of officials.
6. Lectures framed in sectionalism of the Department system
in existing universities are inconvenient and wasteful,
while the credit system affords free selection and
opportunity to all the students, enabling them to attend
to famous lectures of reputed professors, that may also
serve to stimulate the lectureship for exertion.
7. Abolition

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
6 -
7. Abolition of entrance examination may assure the
fair play for all concerning the matriculation,
saving the applicants from their sacrificial
agonies. (One should remind the facts of cruelty.
unfairness, and corrupt ways of the entrance
examination so far exercised).
Selections of the students must be strictly performed
in the course of s tudy according to the s tandard re-
quired, to which students are due to accord naturally.
8. Post-graduate courses, graduate schools, extension
divisions of college lectures, scholarships and
fellowships in the proposed system will serve to
offer an equal opportunity to ell talented persons,
and will socialize the academic works with intimate
co-operation between university and society.
Corrupt custom that "graduate from learning" soon
after the school graduation should be eliminated.
9. Degrae of M.D. is apt to be misused and overvalued,
rectification of which is regarded as incurable cancer
for years.
M.D. shall be conferred, therefore, on all the
graduates from medical course, and those who special-
ized their study in the post-graduate courses or in the
graduate school among M.D.holders, shall be awarded with
some other degree according to their study specialized.
10. Reform of normal school system has been a long pending
consideration. Lifelong study and culture, necessary
to activity of all the school teachers, should be
systematized by the proposed plan, by which the roads
shall be open to the talents, aiming a powerful revival
in educational circles.
11. So far as the appointment and dismissal of school
teachers and professors are left to be controlled by
such a minority as school inspectors and officials
existing, dark shadow will always follow into corrup-
tion.
Committee meetings, under the representative system
proposed, should lead the authority to fair personnel
administration and righteous judgement to protect the
freedom and independence of learning.
12. Professional specification in middle schools existing,
that forces the youngsters to their early decision in
selecting their life work, is not reasonable in any way.
The generalization system proposed will solve the fault
stated above, and will desolve the cruel barrier of
entrance examination by increased accommodations and
attending facilities.
13. The

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
13. The fact that about 50 prefectural universities are
supposed to be established by this reform plan may seem
to be radical, but on the contrary it is an unification
and even simplification of existing colleges, normal
schools, experimental stations and research laboratories,
which are left in the hand of wasteful bureaucracy -
numbering 7 universities, 160 colleges, 102 normal
schools and many other doubled institutes.
Such small number of state university and separatism in
colleges and normal schools existing, yielded the
academic cliquism and favouritism, that have corrupted
the social circumstances in such a bottomless depth.
It is only way possible and inevitable to organize the
existing school system along the route stated. Those
proposed universities shall be the original centers of
peaceful civilization, democratic education and industrial
promotion in and for each localities where they are.
14. Proposed universities will result the economic gains in
better disposal of personnel, in facilities and efficiency,
and in common utilizing of all e quipments packed in the
old castles of separatism.
15. Unfairness and bribery so far prevailed in professional
colleges and schools, especially in private institutes,
authorized to confer the state licenses, e.g., medical
license, dental license, pharmaceuticel license, etc.,
will be expelled naturally by the proposed system -
increased capacity of school accomodations, local faculty
in attending schools, and no entrance examination anywhere,
but with strict supervision upon school discipline.
(By Chugo Watanate, former Director of Japan Trade
Promotion Association, Tokyo.)

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to despatch No. 270 dated Jebruary 21, 1946,
from the Office of the United States Political Adviser, Tokyo,
Japan, on the subject ""Transmission of Two Statements by
WATANÁBE Chugo on Educational Reform".
PRACTICAL APPLICATION OF THE EDUCATIONAL
REFORM PLAN
A. School System.
1. All the "Imperial Universities" are the cradles of national-
ism, the painting sprays of self-respectism, and the strong-
holds of bureaucracy.
Especially, the "Tokyo Imperial University" is the most re-
presentative one, famous in exclusive production of officials,
who are so much prerogative to be pulled into the field of
academic cliquism and favoritism as almost all the important
positions in the Japanese government. are under their occupa
tion and control.
The headquarters of education - Monbusho - is also an im-
pregnable fortification of those graduated from the Tokyo
Imperial University and the Tokyo University of Science and
Literature (the post-graduate course of the Tokyo Higher
Normal School).
They are still holding the two despotic weapons, called
"school inspector system" and "book recommendation system",
both of which are utilized only by and for the corrupt
officials, in controlling the schools and teacher on one
side, and the publishers and editors on the other.
This educational jungle is so much wide spread and deep
rooted that any of the administrative powers, especially
the ones that may come out in future by so- alled democratic
election, will be unable to clear up them by being tangled
in their dark nets.
But just one stroke right now is sure to clear up the en-
tanglement, with easiness and speed, to the ends of the
corrupt roots.
It is really regretful that the power for the stroke can
be obtained only from outside of the Japanese government,
as it is netted with the said "Imperial University" webs.
Just one arrow now, not later, and only this arrow, shall
be able to shoot down the mark named the "Imperial University".
which is the nest of nationalism and bureaucracy, the origin
of academic discrimination and factionalism, and the mother
of official superiority and private inferiority.
If this great HIT could be done, the rest of the difficulties
in the educational reform shall be easily adjusted with eager
and

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
and eternal applause of the thankful peoples.
2. Any of those proposed schools, colleges and universities
should not be allowed to use the term that indicates
national, regional or prefectural distinctions, e.g.,
"Imperial", Nippon, Tokyo, Osaka, Kyoto, Hokkaido, Tohoku,
Kanto, Kansai, Kyushu, Koa, etc., crowned upon the name
of the educationel institutes.
Schools, colleges a universities should not be legalized
by crowning the term that indicates the school discrimina-
tions, either governmental or private.
The names of town or village where the school exists, the
name of the person in honor of his service to the school,
or other proper names, are recommendable instead of the
above stated.
3. The University of Science and Literature, the Higher Normal
School, and the Normal School - all of these shall be
amalgamated in the educational course of the proposed pre
fectural university, by which the enmities and intrigues
among the colorings of the Imperial University and the
University of Science and Literature (Normal School), will
be faded away.
4. According to the proposed plan, the school system would be
summarized as follows:
(1) Kindergarten and nursery school - optional in and
for the localities
(2) Public school (KOMINGAKKO) - 3 years compulsory
and co-educetionel for pragmatic education
(3) Middle School (CHUGAkKO) - 3 years for pragmatic
education and training, boys and girls separately
(4) College (DAIGAkU) - 4 years for academic education
and discipline, 6 to 7 years in medicine
Post-graduate course (KENKYUKA) - 2 years for
specialized study
Graduate school (DAIGAKUIN) - 3 years for the
doctorial candidates
(5) Professional Schools:
a) Professional school (KENSHUJO) - 2 years
practical study and training for the
middle school graduates
1. Public institution in general lines
of profession
2. Private institution to be establish-
ed mostly by the professional guild
or union in the line specialized
Dormitory system may be adopted for
training and practice
b) Training school (KYOSHUJO) - 6 months to 2
years practicel teaching and training for the
public school graduates
1. Public

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
1. Public institution in general lines
of profession
2. Private institution to be established
mostly by the professional guild or
union in the line specialized, dormitory
system if needed.
Either day school or night school system can be adopted
for the professionel schools above mentioned.
(€) Religious Schools:
a) Seminary (GAKUSHUJO) - 3 years denominative religious
education for college graduates
b) Union seminary (GAkUIN) - 2 years general study in
religion for seminary graduates, (c.f. B. Religious
Education, 1 to 10, in the PROPOSED RELIGIOUS RE
FORMATION
5. The proposed prefectural university system,i.e., from the middle
school direct to the college, the existing High School System
heing abolished, shall show the example of school adjustment and
affiliation in Tokyo as follows (being geogrephically arranged
and supposed to be assembled gradually in future):
a. Hongo University (suppositive) shall be affiliated with
The Tokyo Imperial University
The Tokyo University of Science and Literature
The Tokyo Higher Normal School
The Peers' School, both Girls' and Boys' (college
courses only)
The Tokyo Girls' Higher Normal School
The Tokyo Dental College
b. Kunitachi University (suppositive) shall be affiliated with
The Tokyo University of Economics (college courses
inclusive)
The Tokyo Foreign Language School
The Tokyo College of Physical Culture
The Tokyo College of Agriculture and Forestry (Veterinary
School inclusive)
The Tokyo College of Sericulture
The First High School
c. Meguro University (suppositive) shall be affiliated with
The Tokyo University of Industrial Technology
(college courses inclusive)
The Tokyo Prefectural College of Industrial Technology
The Tokyo Prefectural College of Chemical Industry
The Tokyo Technological College
The Tokyo Prefectural High School
The Tokyo Fine Arts School
The Tokyo Conservatory of Music
d. The (Tokyo) Jikei - Charity - Medicel University, (Tokyo
supposed to be omitted),
e. The Waseda University (Higher Normal School, Technical
Colleges, High Schools, inclusive),
f. The Keio

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.96)
- 4 -
f. To University (Fujiwara Technical College, Foreign
Lge School, Veterinary and Zootechnical School,
H hool inclusive)
g. Tro (Central) University (Law, Commerce and Economics)
h. Teiro (suppositive) Girl's University (the head-crowned
Nris supposed to be changed)
2
Other te 15 universities and colleges (1 girls' college
incly should be withdrawn out of Tokyo to the localities of
theiije, and 63 specialized tecanical colleges should be
adjurr being graded in the professional schools (KENSHUJO),
explarn 4-(5)-a, or by being moved out of Tokyo to the de-
mandeclities.
L8
Schoerties or materials, or even students, belong to the
abovid colleges and universities may be dispersed to the
locaiersities to be established according to this reform
planiecessary.
C
Laboes and research institutes shall be appropriately dis-
trib o the proposed local universities, avoiding their govern-
ment lication and inefficiency, thus utilizing their idle
funcd materials to enrich the proposed university accomoda-
tion
.c
Thos aratory schools for entrance examinations as well as
thosgications corrosponding to the same, overflown in cities
and jores everywhere, should be abolished.
The f Tokyo shall have the population of students decreased
in gdeal by the proposed system, provided with the universities,
one de, in and for each prefecture. No difficulties, therefore,
coul ound in controlling and adjusting the school applicants
in I even in the middle school grades as mentioned in B, Pro-
poseiol System 2 of the Gist of Educational Reform.
Suck tment as above stated is the necessary means to be taken
in 1 selection, in order to rationalize the imprudential cen-
tral n of education in the metropolis adoretion, dispersing
the cy of nationelism thus promoted, and realizing the democratic
disFon of schools to end for the wanted localities.
t
6. The ied university should be located in consideration of the
att facilities, quiet and clean circumstences, and geographic
cen each prefecture, bu' away from the administrative or
indl hub over-populated.
1
Forfime being, land for the university cempus and academio
bui should be prepared by each prefecturel government, and
the al government should take care of not only subsidies,
but the chemical and medical materials, mechanical and
indvl apperatus, and books if wanted, so that all the pro-
posaversities would be elevated and standardized to the same
levenverage.
B
The

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
The change of school system, the affiliation and reorganization
of colleges and universities, adjustment in school gradings as well
as school distribution, shall find the best chance at now in
acquiring the speedy solution end operation, as almost all the
students are dismissed to their home for vacation, owing to the
difficulties in food, fuel, and transportation after the war.
7.The Young Men's Schools, either public or private, now existing,
have been popularized in these several years in crder to cover the
deficiency of the theoretical education in middle schools, with a
tendency to be the cat's paw of the militarism. Yet the failure
of the said system revealed in the following points:
(1) The contents of the textbooks ere yet far from being
practicel
(2) Teachers, mostly substituted with grammer school teachers,
are lacking of prectical knowledge and experience
(3) School environment, being mostly established in public
schools or in factories, drives the students into unbear-
able dullness, deeming it as a mere extension of the
grammer school courses.
All these young men's schools, therefore, should be turned into
the training school (KYOSHUJC), ststed above (cf. 4-(5)-b),
utilizing the system end the students in real practical education
and training.
8. The quarter system proposed to be adopted should be terminated
as follows:
Spring Quarter - April 1 to June 20 (86 days),
3 days recess for arrangement
Summer Quarter - June 23 to Sept. 18 (86 days),
3 days recess for arrangement
Autumn Quarter - Sept. 21 to Dec. 21 (91 days),
2 weeks (14 days) vacation for
Christmas and New Year
Winter Quarter - Jan. 5 to March 26 (81 days),
5 days recess for arrangement
Special notice should be taken in respect to the following:
(1) The summer quarter should be vacated for
practical labor discipline to be imposed
upon all the students of middle school
grades and college grades in groups accord-
ing to the courses specialized.
This labor training should be absolutely
different from the "albeit dienst die Hilter
Jugend", in instruction and prectice.
The students shall be brought up with pride
and dignity on labor as well as earning wages,
which is especially wanted to the Japanese
students accustomed so far with disdaining and
shirking tendency upon labor.
(2) The

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.99)
(2) The summer quarter in colleges and universities
should be specially offered to the public school
teachers, government officials, and other scholars
or civilians in adult education plan (cf. B-5), with
credit system co-operating to the educational
administration for teachers and officiels, thus
realizing to keep up their exertions for culture and
civilization.
(3) The self-supporting students in colleges and
universities in Japen shall not be favored in any
way, except the privilege stated below, as it will
be very difficult to accord with the new academic
study different from the cramming and examination
system so far existed.
Such self-supporting students shculd epply for the
scholarship or take the courses in extension division
of colleges and universities to be qualified with
their credits.
9. The courses in extension division of colleges and universities
should be systematized in due form, non-profitable, under the
government supervision, so that the self-studied student shall
be qualified with credits in accordance with his qualifications
tested in the regulatea examinations.
10. Scholarships and fellowships should be founded in each school,
college or university, with no obligations to the student as to
pey the money back, and existing nationalized supporting system
— the IKUEIKAI - should be abolished.
The reason why is that the student supported in the nationalized
system could be easily controlled by nationalistic bureaucrats
even after the supported person has aparted from his school,
owing to his obligations in returning the money back in nervous
feeling having been supported, and that the system was at first
aimed to support the talents among the sons and daughters of the
war dead (cf. 16-a).
Those special middle schools and girls' high schools, e.g., the
YAHAMIZU (meaning Mountain Stream) Schools, established on the
wave of the military influence aiming a favorable treatment for
those students left by the wor dead, should be rectified from
being exclusive.
11. The example of school committees and school trustees to be
raised in the democratic election could be cited as follows:
a. School Committees:
Representation
Number to be elected
Governnent officials 2 (1 chief of educational section,
and 1 elected from the same
section)
Teachers
2 (1 principal and 1 elected by
teachers)
Guardians
2 (1 male and 2 females, both
elected by the school guardians)
Assemblymen
2 (mutual election)
Learned or experienced 2 (1 male and 1 female if available,
among the dwellers in the same
school district by public elec-
tion)
Totel:
12
b. School

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
b. School Trustees - Elected by mutual election in the
School Committees:
Representation
Number to be elected
Government Official
1
Teacher
1
Guardian
1
Assemblyman
1
Learned & experie nced
1
Total:
5
In case of Trustees in private school, the owner of the
school shall take the place of the government officials
stated above, and the essemblymen being omitted. But
the decision must be reported to the School Committees
of its administrative unit, and shall be due to get con-
sent from them.
c. Terms: 2 to 3 years for both committees and trustees.
Duty:
Decisions in the class meeting of guardians,
the school meeting of the same, the alumni meet-
ing of the school, and the faculty meeting of the
school, should be duely considered by both
committees and trustees.
Power: Both trustees and committees can execute their
administretive power, but the legisletive power
in school system lies on the central government.
The power concerning the anpointment and dis-
missal of teachers belong to the school committee
meeting.
The supreme power is kent in the hend of the
school committees in the upper administrative
unit.
12. In personnel administration, the transfer and interchange of
teachers should be positively taken up, in order to frustrate
the academic cliquism and clean up the spoiled idleness, in
consideration of the proposals from or the consent with teacher,
meetings of trustees and committees, especially in case of pro-
fessors of colleges and universities.
13. The alme te,i' private or public, of teachers and pro
fessors, should nct be discrimineted in personal administration,
for which the private schools and universities should pay the
standardized salary or more then that of the public institutions.
The so-called "school business" so far prevailed, by the cheap
pay to the teachers or professors and mass income from the
students, cannot be affirmative in the present innovation proposed.
14. No entrance examination plan does not aim the fall of the level
in

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
in scholarship, but the dispell of social evils and wrong way
in valuation of student's personality and character. Examina
tions should not be terminated upon the tests of one's retentive
power only, as so far exercised in Japan, but also upon his per-
sonal cheracteristics as well as his incessant exertions. This
fault in Japanese education as well as in government edministra-
tion resulted such deep corruntion as previously mentioned, pass-
ing through the nerrow gates of the famous First High School and
the Tokyo Imperial University to the extreme self-respectism
and factionalism, of which only one's retentive power is the key,
disregarding one's charecteristic nor faith in conscience.
The standard level of scholarship, therefore, should be strictly
supervised, by which quite a number of unqualified students shall
be neturally compelled to withdraw from the schools or colleges,
end turn into the professional schools or training schools, other-
wise to the ractical work directly, (cf., A, substantial Reform
7, B-3, and C, Aims of Reform 4 and 7, in the Gist of Proposed
Reform of Education).
15. In sending the professors abroad for their s tudy so far, pulls
and favors in and from the Department of Education - Monbusho -
seemed to be most powerful in acquiring the privilege, disregard-
ing their personal qualifications nor necessities.
Consequently, quite a number of them were sent only to enjoy the
trip in the sense of an allowance or bonus awarded previously
to their retirement.
Such national expense should be turned to and for the young
promising students or professors, and also to the public school
and middle school teachers, either personally or in groups, for
which the School Committee System in recommendation of scholars
should be adopted in the place of the corrupt School Inspector
System existing.
16. The following four great corrupt systems should be abolished:
(1) School Inspector System:
So far as the appointment and dismissal, transfer and
interchange, and various other favors or privileges in
personnel administration are left to be handled by the
report of school inspectors, the position of inspector
is something like the human broker or go-between, who
are so busy in seeking around their brokerages and
commissions.
The commission merchants as such in the educational
trade between teechers and fficials should be duely
abolished.
(2) Book Recommendation System:
Only the books published by some powerful publishers are
easy to be recommended in the name of the central govern-
ment - the Department of Education. Only the books written
by influential militerists or by sagacious scholars of
"Imperial

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.99)
- 9 -
"Imperial University" are apt to be easily recommend-
ed in the name of the Educational Headquarters.
There is no reason in thet the publisher, who wishes
to make a good seller, is always careless in respect
to the advertising velue of the "national recommenda-
tion".
No more additional narration shall be necessitated in
order to have such corrupt system abclished.
(3) Supporting System:
The national and prefectural supporting system to the
students in normal schools and colleges is derived from
the Normal School Act, 1886, provided to bring up the
talents from the poor farmers who were destined not to
be the heir under the family system.
But the present circumstances are entirely different
from the same of sixty years ago. Furthermore, the said
system served only for resulting the servitude and
obedient tendency of the talents to be easily controlled
by the nationelistic powers, their freedom being restrain-
ed by their obligations in the due course of returning the
money.
All the supporting system, therefore, should not be establish-
ed upon the nationel nor prefectural, in other words, govern
mental basis.
(4) Pension System:
The pension system for the teachers and professors only in
governmental schools, and not in private schools, is also an
unfair treatment, but is very convenient way in keeping them
in the frame of nationalism under the management of bureau
crats.
Teachers and professors should be insured by the insurance
company not compulsorily but by their free will, for which
salaries for them should be greatly increased, and in which
the talents shall find their freedom and satisfaction to be
diligent in their duty and study.
17. Regarding the textbooks, the Department of Education - Monbusho -
should present only outlines of principles to be taken in the
books, namely - democracy, internationalism, pacifism, liberalism,
pragmatism, culturism, scientism, anti-pedentism, sacredness of
labor, loyalism by and through socialism, etc., so as to stimulate
the excellent writers into incessant activities for the work.
Spoiled bureaucrats wish to grasp everything in their hands. The
unification of textbooks by state is nothing but the product of
nationalism, and the publication of the state textbooks is not
for the pupil, but only for the corrupt way of control.
The selection and adoption of the democratic textbooks, there
fore, should be managed by the school committees with the consent
of the committees of prefectural unit, to which none of the
publishers shall find the room for their profitable movements.
18. Instead

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.98)
一 10 -
18. Instead of the theoretical textbooks so far existing, pregmatism
must be taken in the texts so as to be practically applied for,
by writing them in easy words and ways of narration, fully
illustrated, especielly in professional guide books and in
scientific works.
Of course, the difficult Chinese letters, frequently used in
pedantism of Japanese bureaucratic scholers, and the same
classics, stubbornly protected by the bull-headed scholars of
netionalistic classicism, should be greatly restrained.
19. In teaching English, the so-called book English or the examina
tion English, so far bothered the students by its complexed
grammatical composition of no practical use, should be abandoned.
The exeminetion system, produced by the bureaucracy, yielded such
"Japanese English" only for the "eye", but not for the "ear" nor
"mouth", i.e., reading only for to be a dumb.
English educetion, therefore, must be started from the practical
conversetion at the beginning, emphasizing to learn accent,
intonation, and thinking in English, all of which have been
wholely neglected so far.
One and a half ve'r in the oroposed middle school course will be
enough for free managing in practical English, in case the time
and energy so far wasted for military drill, fencing, jujitsu,
and difficult Chinese clessics could be turned to it, and then
the rest of the time in the middle school course, 3 year system,
shall be devoted to the books, widely so far as possible, thus
enabling the kmowledge in English bocks applied for practicel
use.
Besides the English lessons compulsory in middle schools, the
second or third foreign languages, such as Russian, German,
French, and Chinese, may be of fered, if teachers available, as
preferable course in the middle schools as in the colleges.
In the public school grades, as teachers being unqualified in
practical English, the same education should not be offered,
but the Romaji (Roman letters), spelling as well as reading,
in 7th and 8th gredes, shall be taken in with intention to
Romenize the Japanese letters radually in the future.
20. Girls' educetion in the Cirls' High School existing is thought
to he one of the trousseaus, not in its practical sense, but
for the sake of its formal diploma nrinted on a sheet of paper.
Overloaded girls in their 'teen a ge with so many subjects and
lessons, deduced from the conservative idea and custom of pre-
domance of men over woman, are pitifully teased for vainful
exertions in school curriculums and in home tasks. For example,
the sewing, either foreign or domestic for both sexes, and the
manual arts, which apparently necessitate some professional
training, are too heavy to be imposed upon girls compulsorily
in the miadle school courses generalized. The fact that all
the graduetes from the Girls' High School existing heve to go to
home sewing school for at least two years previously to their
marriage, would be the evidence of the above statement.
Such subjects, therefore, shall be optional in the proposed
Girls' Middle School, forwarding them in the courses of profession-
a.l school

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.99)
- 11-
al school (KENSHUJO) where the prectical training and
ability could be acquired.
Thus adjusting the old curriculum into compulsory or option-
al, and renewing the theoretic teaching into prectical duca-
tion, the proposed system should emphasize the pregmatic educe-
tion and training in the followings:
Politics, sociel morality, domestic science
(eepecially in chemistry and living improve-
ments), dietetics, hygienics, nurse-maid train-
ing, and foodstuff cookery; all of which are
important in filling up the shortcomings caused
by the slavish euucation fremed by and for the
aristocretic control.
B. Social Application.
1. The bottom current of self-respectism, rationalism and jingoism,
overflown into the masses, runs in the dreadful reciting of
old story-telling (kodan), and Naniwabushi (passionate narra
tion of story in singing style), together with the tremendous
publications of the same as well as cheap novels.
These low-grade literatures, made up to propagate the slavish
morels as if prevailed among the heroic loyalist and the
chivalrous boss-dicers in the background of the Meiji Restora-
tion Era, pull the minds of vulgars and ignorants so much as
thet they are absorbed passionately in reading them even in
the overloaded street-cars so terible es at present.
These are really said to be the hidden weapons of militarism
end jingoism, of which the Dainippon Yubenkai Kodansha (The
Eloquence and Story-telling Society of Great Japan, Ltd.), is
the most representetive publisher.
2. Another influential journalism, tied up with the military
circles at the beginning of the war, that stirred up the senti-
ment of the people is the Yomiuri-Hochi, a daily news.
As socn as the war is over, they took initiative to turn into
the communistic movement, driving out the head as the erasing
sanctifier for the executive staffs to be responsible in any
way together with their head.
Both of the above-mentioned journalism are really said to be
the dynamic motcrs of social evils in and national faults of
Japan, which can hardly be dispelled by any authority in
Japanese hand now, as the journalism, either in good or bad
sense, is so powerful especially in peace time of so-called
"Democratic Age", not in its real sense.
3. In rectification of those two inheritances left by the hatred
militarism, it is proposed to establish the Kogekukan (Learn-
ing Promotion Hall) or the Fufakukan (Leerning Popularization
suppositive, to be an incorporation, stending on the govern-
ment subsidies as well as the public donetions, for promotion
and publication of the following works:
(1) The

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.95)
4 DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JAPANESE
DIVISION OFEXDKKASMERXXAFFAIRS
01c/m.Frihw
March 13, 1946
HB
JKP
This would seem to be of
particular interest to Gordon
Bowles' office in . Olc.
The suggestion of the
establishment of universities
in the provinces, away from
Tokyo, is an excellent one.
JA: JKEmmerson:mp

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.99)
12
(1) The scientific study and rationalization of
Japanese history
(2) Translation of all the foreign and Japanese
classics into easy, modern and spoken-style
Japanese
(3)
Standardize the technical terms in Japanese
concerning the sciences, especially in
chemistry and mechanics, civil and electrical
engineerings, arts and colors, etc., etc.
(4) Prise-contest for modern litereture in easy
Japenese, novels and essays, with the purpose
of advocating the internationalism, pacifism,
culturism, liberalism, industrialism, loyalism
standing on democracy by and through social
morals and eervices
(5) Priso-contest for musical composition in order
to elevete the musical culture with intention
to suppress the vulgarism.
Note: a) Personnel of the said institute
must be under the control of the
trustees consisted of able
civilians of good repute, 7 in
number. No officials nor ex-
officiels cen be allowed in mem
bers of the same.
b) All the publications regarding
the above must be published in
low-priced popular edition, of
which the copy-right should be
reserved by the institute and
the printing as well as the whole-
sale could be let out to the con-
tractor with consent of the
Publication Committees consisted
of 10 members, namely:
2 representing the institute
2 representing authors or
translators
2 specialists in publication
2 representing writers of
good repute, and
2 representing the publishers'
and printers' associations
4. The Department of Educati on - Monbusho - should have a Local
Librery Bureau with function to spread libraries to every
town and village, et least one for each, co-operating with
the local governments.
The following items should be enforced in order to enrich
the said sociel education:
(1) Supply books on sciences (especially in agriculture,
zootechny, and other agricultural industries), pro-
fessional guide books, literatures of international-
ism and culturism, foreign and domestic classics
translated

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
translated into easy Japanese, and
Scrape out those story-telling publications and
cheap novels.
(2) Spread the book morals by which train up the people
in social culture and discipline.
(3) Respect the benefactors and supporters for social
educetion and culture in not secular way, but with
refined manner.
Foreign aids to the most important, but wanted field
of social improvement of Japan should be frankly re
quested here. In fact, the local libraries existing
in Japan is so poor that only a few publications on
local history could be a bit attractive, and nothing
else.
5. The adult education sc far neglected in Japan, should be actively
schemed utilizing the library as a center of local culture.
The young mens' and womens' clubs for reading books, associations
for promotion of library works, and other social clubs as well as
meetings, shall be organized or set up voluntarily, through which
the adult education, social training, and democratic discipline
can be obtained if lead in the right away.
Corresponding to the above, the proposed prefectural university
system and the extension divisior of the college and university
courses shell find the way to their incessant social activities
for edult education and local culture. Moreover, professors of
colleges and universities shall be sent for lectures and guid-
ances in co-operetion with the central and local governments,
providing that the corrupt expenses, so far and so much wasted
by the YOKUSANKAI (Patriots' Society) members in drinking and
eating party, formelly given to the lecturers, only to lay out
the budget for the official themselves, should be absolutely
rectified.
(By Chugo Watanabe, former Director of Japan Trade Promotion
Association, Tokyo.)

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.95)
THE WHITE HOUSE
yile
WASHINGTON
January 26, 1946
JAN 29 1946
OFFICE
OHIEF
Respectfully referred to the
State Department.
Welian D. Harmett
WILLIAM D. HASSETT
Secretary to the President
894.42/1.
JAN 3 1 1946
FILED

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Office
DIVISION OF EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
Division of British Commonwealth Affairs
September 27, 1945
Room 201
JA- Mr. Dickover
I am referring the attached note
from the Australian Minister to you.
The Minister makes known the desire of
the Australian Government to participate
in the fcrmulation of "a master plan
for the re-education of the Japanese
which may shortly be sent as a directive
to the Supreme Allied Commander in Japan".
In general, I believe it desirable
tc consult with the Australians on
Pacific affairs when possible. In the
absence of some form cf machinery for
this purpose, consideration might be
given tc informal discussicns with the
Australians cn the above subject.
Tw
E. T. Wailes

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.76)
Ma
all
Ia roply refur to
ydea D. 
7
E
8
ing the advisary group to Japam.
5
The adviacry proup will inalude apresdmstely
sashingten und an edult adusati en leader tren Atlente
Goargia.
2
 m persolly i eomplete ar wit the
146
ton
I lop you wil cot bositase to svise m lm th
rutre cn sy opportudtlee you see cor the bother mmo
of wen in ts os
Binoeraly yours,
CC:
sillien Denkea
Cenoral illdring
Àpslstamt Jecretery
Enily Mieman, Ph.D.
Chal Comilee on Noman in orld Arfaira.
57 dmman Itree
FRow rumwick, Row Joreey.
2/5/46
ADO:OTDowLes smbv
OIC
A-B
A-BI HBansoninkg
2/28/40

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.95)
235527
3
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES CMERICA
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japan, February 28, 1946.
No. 283
DC/R
SUBJECT: "Jepanese Education Being Liberalized."
1JA
10R1
The Honorable
IFE/R
The secretary of tte,
IFEC
3/20/44
Washington.
Sir:
I have the lor to forwara three copies of a press release
(a four-month sun Fization report) by Brigadier General Ken R.
Dyke, Chief of th: Civil Information and Education Section,
General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
These copies, which were the only ones available, were courteously
furnished by the above section at our request.
General Dyke states that "The Japanese educational system is
freeing itself of the insiuious poison of militarism and ultra-
nationalis nd is moving into an era of demecratic reform."
Other points enphasized are that for the first time both the Jap-
894.42/2-2846
anese Minister and Vice Minister of Education are professional
educators; that a new progran of education is being worked ut;
that cooperation with SCAF officers has been notable; that the
XR740.00119
xemination and sereenin of teachcrs is proceeding satisfactorily;
that mili ary drill and educetion have been prohibited and are
being elinnated.
PM
HBR
EED
Rea that new texts are being prepered; that the school
years haveeen restored to their pre-war length; that teachers
and educati nal officials suspended or forced to resign for liberal
opthions, inow qualified, are being re-appointed. He also reviews
theguse of radio, and of special courses and manuals to re-orient
andoairect the teachers end school administrators. General Dyke
calls attention to the establishment of the principle of co-education
and of equal education for girls and women. He is ptimistic that
this end will bc attained within a reasonable time. He commends
the appointment by the Japanese Government of a committee of educa-
tors to cooperat& with the Mission of American Education, which 
now on its way to Japan to "study the educational system and adtise
General Mecarthur on matters of policy and long-range objectives.
CS/VJ
After the departure of the American Mission, the Japanese commite
will continue to serve the Ministry as an advisory body on eduo-
tional reform." Certain Japanese have pointed out that only the
government-supported schools are represented on this Japanese com-
mittee. This deficiency is under consideration and may be remedied.
A'DO
General Dyke expresses the opinion that "The great task of
DIVISTON OF JAPANESE AND KOREAN
DCR NE Unit
ECONONIC AFFAIRS
ana124
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Re
MAY 1 6 1946
A
Cat
Department of State

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.93)
4
-?-
blueprint has been laid down, but the careful, painstaking
process of carrying out the provisions of Potsdam lica ahead.
It will not be en easy undertaking."
Respectfully your,
Waewasishop
x. Bishop
Foreign Service Officer
Enclosure:
dated February 19, 1346.
riginaI and ozalid to
Department.
942
CLeebrick:vs

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.98)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
UNITED STATES ARMY FORCES, PACIFIO
5
Public Relations Office
16:30
Press Release:
18 February 1946
PLAN TO EVADE FISHING RESTRICTIONS BLOCKED
Another fantastic Japanese scheme to break out of the restricted
fishing area -- this time under the protection of the American flag,
2
using American ships, equipment and materials -- has been spiked,
f
according to Lt. Col. R. H. Fiedler, fisheries expert of the Natural
2
Resources Section, GHQ, SCAP. The request, which was not presented
through official channels, was immediately denied.
"The significance of this scheme is not the mere fact that it is
just another attempt to break out of the fishing areas now open to
Japan, but the audacious manner in which the Japanese firm presumes
to use the United States and the American flag to accomplish its
ends," Col. Fiedler said.
Since the occupation, the Japanese fishing industry has been
permitted to operate in an area around Japan which, on the basis of
past production records, is considered adequate to supply the food
needs of the Japanese people. Since the surrender the Japanese have
made repeated attempts to extend their fishing grounds (see PRo re-
lease 13:30, 25 January 1946) in an attempt to salavage a part of
their pre-war commercial fishing empire and to reestablish themselves
in the world markets.
"This plan, presented by a private concern to SCAP, suggests that
the firm furnish Japanese crews to operate American ships flying the
American flag so that they could invade American fishing areas with
impunity," Col. Fiedler said. "They then propose to can crab meat on
board the ships and to.deliver it directly to the American market,
where, because it comes from American ships, it would become a product
of the American fisheries and enter the country duty free."
Col. Fiedler branded the proposal as a brazen attempt to use the
American flag and United States resources to evade the restrictions
placed upon the Japanese fishing industry after the surrender and to
help recapture the world fishing empire which Japan enjoyed before

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
the war. He pointed out that the plan not cnly proposed to invade
American crab fishing ground but also looked toward the exploitation
of estern Pacific salmon fishing areas under the protection of the
American flag.
The plan was presented by a pre-war Japanese-American firm of
Tokyo, which submitted a request directly to SCAP without the usual
clearance with Central Liaison asking that they be permitted to "char-
ter, lease or otherwise obtain a few ships, cans, nets and all other
equipment necessary for crab cannery ships." The firm would send the
vessels to Hakodate for conversion to crab cannery equipment and
enlist Japanese crews to operate them.
"The cannery ships, upon being ccnverted at Hakodate, would leave
for the fishing grounds flying the American flag," the plan states.
"And as all the fishing grcunds are located outside the territorial
waters, no trouble of any kind is anticipated." (The ships would be
under the protection of the Am rican flag.)
The scheme proposes that the United States furnish ten cargo
boats of from 3,000 to 4,0oo tons each. The Japanese firm would
furnish 3,500 veteran Japanese crab fishermen. By the end of September
they would expect to produce 20o,0o0 cases of canned crab eat having
a value of approximately l0o million yen, all of which would be
shipped to America.
"Moreover, the production of canned salmon had been carried on
by Japanese off the Russian coast," the plan adds. "This, too, could
be resumed under a system similar to that proposed for crab canning.
If this were to be undertaken also, there wculd result an additional
yield of another 1o0 million yen." The plan suggests that some of the
products might be used for reparations.
The presentation opens with an elaborate introduction which is
designed to emphasize the sincerity with which the Japanese are attempt-
ing to solve their post-war problems. It recognizes the importance
of America's sympathy "in this trying period of our country's transitioi
from warlike militarism to peaceful democracy." It appeals to gourmets
by describing the crab meat products which will be restored "to the
tables of the people the world over who have been waiting to taste

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
this delicacy once more" and it solicits sympathy for the "large
numbers of fishermen of high skill and long experience in the produc-
tion of canned crabs, all of them whom much to our regret, are now
spending their days in idleness for want of the work to which they
can apply their attributed."
-0-
JAPANESE GOVERNL ENT NOT TO PRESCRIBE BOOKS
In one of what is expected to be a series of moves toward de-
centralization of control over education in Japan, the Ministry of
Education has abandoned its former "right" to authorize text books
for higher schools.
The Ministry informed SCAP's Civil Information and Education
Section that in the future the c hoice of books will be left to the
higher schools concerned.
The section also was informed that publishers of text books for
higher schools have formed an association to insure equitable dist-
ribution of publishing rights.
-0-
JAPANESE EDUCATION BEING LIBERALIZED
"The Japanese educational system is frccing itself of the
insidious pcison of militarism and ultra-nationalism and is moving
into an era of democratic reform," stated Brig. Gen. Ken R. Dyke,
chief of the Civil Information and ducation Section of SCAP, in a
four-month summarization report released today by his office.
General
Dyke explained that fqur thousand schools were totally
or partially destroyed during the war and existing facilities are
dangerously overcrowded. However, in the emergency, other public
buildings and temples are being utilized and many schools are operat-
ing double shifts to share buildings with other institutions.
The report said that most of Japan's 18 illion students and 400
thousand teachers are at work in some 40 thousand schools.
(more)
-3-

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.99)
The Education Division of the Civil Information and Education
Section, SCAP, was established to make "recommendations to effect the
accomplishment of the educational objectives of the Allied Powers."
To this end, the division has been working through the revamped Japan-
ese Ministry of Education, using supervisory techniques which have
combined technical advice and assistance with formal direction and
official sanction.
For the first time in Japanese educational history both the min-
ister and vice-minister of education of the recently reorganized cab-
inet are professional educators.
The basic education policies and objectives of the occupation,
promulgated in an October 22 directive, have given the Japanese "a fresh
start and a new kind of hope," the general said. In this directive a
long-range program f educational reform was predicated on both neg-
ative and positive aspects of Japanese rericntation.
"On. the one hand," the report stated, "it prohibitcd the dissem-
ination by the Japanese Government of all militaristic and ultra-nat-
ionalistic ideology; and on the other hand. the Government, through its
Education Ministry, was directed to encourage 'the inculcation of con-
cepts and establishment of practices in harmony with representative
government, international pcace, the dignity of the individual, and
such fundamental human rights as the frcedom of assembly, speech and
religion.'"
These fundamental policies wcre established to govern the careful
cxamination of teachers and educatinal officials, school curricula,
textbooks, teaching manuals and instructional materials.
Since the occupation began, military cducation and drill have
been prohibited. Personnel who could not mect the new standards were
ordered removed and objcctionablc material deleted from all teaching
matter. Discrimination against students, tcachers and educational
officials on grounds of race, nationality, creed, political opinion
r social position was forbidden.
(more)
-4

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
operating educational system as soon as possible. Teachers and
educational officials who had been suspended or forced to resign
for liberal or anti-militaristic opinions or activities were declared
immediately eligible for reappointment, providing their technical
qualifications were acceptable.
Students, teachers and educational officials were encouraged to
evaluate critically and intelligently the content of instruction and
to engage in free and unrestricted discussion of issues involving
political, civil and religious liberties.
New curricula, textbooks, teaching manuals and instructional
materials designed to produce an educated, peaceful and responsible
citizenry, the report stated, are in the process of preparation to be
substituted for militaristic and ultra-nationalistic content.
Gone since the end cf the war is martial training in the schools,
including kendo (fencing), judo (military wrestling) and naginata
(girls' fencing). Military subjects, such as training in aeronautics,
have been discontinued. Strict military discipline has ceased and
where facilities and equipment are available, students are engaging
i free sports such as basketbell, volleyball and track.
Occasional violations of the directive banning military training
have been reported and necessary action has been taken, but in general,
there has been an apparent attempt to comply with the provisions of
the directive, according to the report.
Gencral Dyke explained that most school playgrounds, of necessity,
have been turned into vegetable gardens and that all schools are almost
totally lacking in athletic equ:prcnt. Recognizirg the importance of
sports and games in any program designed to democratize the school
system, SCAP is drawing up plans to meet many of the problems.
Former students of naval and military schools, now closed, have
been distributed among other institutions in order that they will not
represent more than ten percent of the student body at any one school.
(more)
-5-

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
Many old-line teachers and officials, in recognition of their
own militaristic and ultra-nationalistic activities, have resigned
voluntarily and others have been removed. To further cleanse the
school system of und sirablc influences, the Japanese Ministry of
Education is preparing a plan by which all of Japan's 400 thousand
teachers will bc examined individually--a tremendous and far-reaching
project.
Teachers and cducational officials who were suspended or forced
to resign for libcral opinions during thc war years, if otherwise
qualified, are being given preference in reappointment. Liberal teach
crs, General Dykc pointed out, are lcarning that they are needed and
that places will be made for them.
"Long deprived of information concerning the educational advances
of democratic countries, teachers and students of Japan now are being
reoricnted by special publications and lectures, radio and motion
pictures, magazines and newspapers," the report stated. "While it is
recognized that this orientation is limited in its effect, it can be
considered an important step in the overall program."
A ncw teachers' manual is being prepared by the Ministry of Ed-
ucation to replace the vicious, interpretativ. guidcbooks which were
a primary source of war-timc indoctrination. Traditionally, Japanese
teachers relied on thesc manuals for interpretation of textbook con-
tent and for teaching aids. The ncw version is intended to set forth
the basic aims which tuachers may use in re-thinking thc aims of ed-
ucation and the function of schools and to illustrate spccific learn-
ing activitics.
Japanesc teaching manuals always have becn pcdantic and abstruse
and frequently supplcmentary publications were necessary to explain
them to thc tcachers.
. The new guides will be prescnted in colloquial
Japanese which the average clementary tcacher can comprchend.
The Ministry of Education, on its wn initiative, has launched
a serics of teacher re-orientation lectures throughout Japan to inter-
pret the new cducational policies. These will be helpful, but not
adequate, the general said.
(more)

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.99)
Radio broadcasting to the schools has been resumed by the Ministry
of Education and new programs ere being conducted especially for the
interim period while school texts are inadequate or unavailable. The
Radio and Education Divisions of CI&E are cooperating to provide
technical advice and assure appropriate material for the broadcasts.
Radio programs designed to stimulatc discussion of the practices
and meaning of democracy, and the problems of student and teacher
readjustment have taken the form of lectures, commentaries, open
forums, dramatic skits, stories and newscasts.
A weekly discussion of current events, in which students
participate, is broadcast as a part of the daily Students' Hour.
Teachers of elementary, middle and youth schools are encouraged to
use this program as a model for classroom discussion.
"While it is hoped that education by radio will be helpful in
the democratization process," the report said, "it must be remembered
thi: the majority of Jananesc teachers and students will not be
reached for sore time to come. A recent Ministry of Education survey
indicates that less than one-third of the elemntary and middle schools
 cquipped with opercble radio sets. Many of ties. do not have
corplete public address systers with loud speakers in cach classroom.
Schools will get first priority on new radio sets produced in Japan."
The Ministry has announced long-range plans for raising the level
of women's @ducation "to cope with the realization of women's part-
icipation in politics."
Traditionally, Goneral Dyke said, the education of girls and wc-
men in Japan has been based on the idea that they become good wives
and mothers. There has been no widespread belief that women should
be trained in academic subjects or for c career other than motherhood.
Under the new plan, women's education will be reformed with a
view to "giving equal opportunity of receiving cducation to men and
women; raising the level of women's education to the level of men's
education, and furthering mutual respect among men and women."
Specifically, this will mean admitting women to schools formerly
restricted to men; putting coeducation into operation in the univ-
ersities and in addition it will mean the problem of

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.99)
establishing women's universities; establishing women's higher
schools, and raising the level of the curriculum to that of men's
institutions.
Textbooks in Morals, Geography and Japanese History were found
to be so filled with militaristic and ultra-nationalistic ideology
that it was neccssary to suspend the courses. As a temporary measure,
the Ministry of Education was directed to prepare a substitute pro-
gram to rcplace these courses.
"The present school texts, in the main, are free of a greater
part of the objectionable war-time material," the general said. "Up
to the present, 188 of the 497 school texts, from elementary through
the normal school level, have been carefully censored by SCAP."
All other texts are being examined as rapidly as thetremendously
involved problems of translation and review will permit. General
criteria for censorship have been cstablished for the elimination of
militaristic and ultra-nationalistic content. Thcsc books will be
used temporarily, pending the preparation of entirely new texts on the
basis of detailcd and spccific criteria.
The Japancsc Ministry of Education has appointed a committce of
cducators to coopcrate vwith the mission f Amcrican educators which
will come to Japan to study thc cducational system and advise General
MacArthur on matters of policy and long-range objectives. After the
dcparture of the American mission, the Japanesc committee will contin-
ue to serve tho inistry as an advisory body on educational reform.
The Amcrican mission, in particular, will study Education for
Democracy in Japan, Psychology in thc Rc-cducation of Japan, Admin-
istrative Rcorganization of the Educational System, and Higher Educa-
tion in the Rehabilitation of Japan.
Spccializcd committecs of Japanese, representing a cross-section
of educational, professional and civic-mindcd citizens will be asked
to work with thc American mission independently free of Ministry of
Education instructions or influences.
"The great task of educational reform in Japan," General Dyke
concluded," has only just begun. A tentative blueprint has been laid
-8

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.97)
down but the careful, painstaking process of carrying out the pro-
visions of Potsdam lies chead. It will not be an easy undertaking."
-0-
KOREANS TO FORM COAST GUARD
SEOUL, KOREA -- Threc hundred and thirty Koreans, the first to
be recruited for the country's newly-formed Coast Guard, left Friday
for the training school at Chinhaa. The men were recruited in the
Seoul area during thc weck of February 1l to 15.
Previously, trainees of the school were made up of men selected
with former experience in thc field.
-0

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.93)
(NBB)
1946
Bepartment ef State
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICADDV
Tokyo, Japan, March 22, 1946.
UNRESTRICTED
No. 317
SUBJECT: ecent Japanese Magazine Articles on Education.
HB HK
E
The Honorable
The
H
ECEED
P 
p
shington.
147
I have the honor to transmit copies, in sextuplicate, of an
issue of the "Flications Analysis" (No. 14, February 21, 1946),
894.42/3-2246
prepared by the Civil Informatior and Education Section, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers, which suanarizes and analyses
recent articles on education appearing in leading Japanese period-
icals.
As is to be expected unuer the conditions of the American
occupation, and in line with the gcnerally progressive tone of the
Japanese press, the writers of these articles generally agree in the
need for thoroughgoing refor of Japanese cducation, including the
school system and administration. Steps called for include: elim-
ination of militerism, revision of textbooks, simplification of
CS/VJ
language, better treatment of teachers, reinterpretation of Japanese
history, and emphasis on devclopment of individuality.
Respectfully yours,
MHayuBichop
APR 1 21946
Max W. Bishop
Foreign Service Officer
四
894.42
Enclosure:
Publications Analysis No. 14,
Feb. 21, 1946 (in sextuplicate).
md
Original and ozalid to Department.
842
KOLeebrick:vs

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.97)
水水水水水水六*水水*六水水
GENER.L HEADQUARTERS
SUFREIE COMM:NDER FOR.THE ALLIED POWERS
Civi Information and Education Soction
Modic Anelysis Division
PUBLIC.TIONS NALYSIS, 21 February 1946
No. 14
Education
Many of tho controversial cducational problems currently boing dobatod
in tho Japanoso magazinos are those that poronniclly occupy morican cducat-
ors. Tho cxamination systom, scienco vorsus tho classics, toachors' pay end
cocducation aro typical subjocts. Each ritor has his pot bugboar, ant ox-
copt on tho climinction of militarism from tho schools cnd tho rovision of
Jarnoso history toxtbooks thoro is littlc ovidonco of consonsus. Furthor-
more, as in thc caso of most other topics, articlos doaling ith oducation
tond to be vague cnd goneralizod, ith oxprossions of praissworthy sentimont
crovding out rigorous nalysis and practical suggostions.
Militcrism in tho Schools and tho Ministry of Educction
Many articlos manifost impationco ith tho progross mado thus far in
oliminating tho influonco of tho militarists. Pointing out that "tho cats-
pavs of th- militarists" still infost tho Ministry of Education, Koisho
Honda in KORON insists that 1 tting tho old gang ministor tho domocratic
roforms "is on a par vith lotting c thicf administor tho le on larcony."
Ho admits that tho climination of tho "Haizoku Shoko" systom (military attacho
to schools) has brokon tho stranglchold of militarism on Japen's institutions
of lecrning, but arguos that tho cncouragomont of domocratic cducation will
bo woll-nigh impossiblo unloss tho roformation of tho Kinistry of Educrtion
and tho oxpulsion of old officials kcops pacc vith tho domocratic trond.  Tho
military attache system vos in cffoct a ponsion systom for suporannuatod
military officurs, and the students alwnys had a cortain contompt for thom;
thus thoir romoval is only a suporficial chango. "'. great and rcdical roform-
ction from primcry to univorsity schools must bo offoctod both as to curricu-
lum and porsonncl. * * * Undor tho prosont cducation systom, oven if full
liborty bo givon to tho pooplo, thoy vould bo unablo to onjoy nd uso it,
and this sort of cphomoral froodom might ocsily bo sropt aey should any fas-
cist tido rocur after tho tormination of tho .morican occupation."
KORON also runs en articlo by Yasuzo Suzuki bittorly criticizing tho
rotention of hold-overs from tho old rogimc. "Thero aro still ntionalistic
and militaristio oducators, cs voll as officials of tho Ministry of Education,
vhoso cultural cherector is poor, yot vho romain in thoir formor positions.
Japanoso cducationcl policy has boon concontrcted on tho foudclistic concopts
of absoluto obodicncc, absoluto povor of tho family hoad, tho subordination
of womon, and narrov-mindcd anti-foroign nctionalism." This oducation was
a wondorful tool for tho imporialistic idcology of tho Army. "Tho Japanoso
systom is boyond comp~rison ovon vith tho Hitlor Jugond, for it imposod far
mor: labor and far moro rogimontation of training than Hitlor's systom did.
It was indood barbarism. * * * But tho reformation of Javanoso cducation vill
not bo nchicved simply by banning books on Kokutai no Hongi (tho principlos
of tho National Constitution) or Shimmin no Michi (tho Moral of tho Pooplo)."
But cvon Suzuki carnot fr o himsolf of tho nation-listic lingo: vriting that
tho youth of Jepan must strivo for truth cnd friondship boyond rmco or front-
ior, ho snys, " hon tho pure souls of tho youths who voluntoorod for tho
Spocir1 ittack Corps vill bo mobilizod clong thoso linos, c now Japan will
be ostablishcd."
Exctly th opposito position is takon by Toshio Tamamurc in KOkUMIN
KYOIKU, who dofonds tho "patriotic toachors" and who fools that vhilo Japen
ves still fighting, it mas tho duty of oducators to support tho wer "Thoeo

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.96)
In SEk.I, Yoshiro Nagayo attacks tho mystical approach to Japariom
turo. "Tho conspicuous shortcoming of Japanoso culturo is, in a vord,
lack of intolligible, rctioncl clononts. This is closoly connootodtrith
non-sciontific or ovon anti-sciontific origin of Japanoso culturo." Tho
lack of cny dotoctablo rolction to tho ronl world in tho traditional inst
tion in Shushin (morals) or Rinri (othics) is scorod by Takcshi Tatsuno in
a JITSUGYO NO NIrPON crticlo. "From my prinary to my high school day, I
had not tho slightost.intorost in thoso subjocts. I cvon bogen to dovolop
an antipathy for thon, and this fooling has boon intonsifiod with tho pas-
sing yoars. * * * I had a firn conviction that tonchors woro moroly pooplo
who lived by giving lossons nochanicclly." s cnothor oxmnplo, ho points
to tho vast gap botwoon constitutioncl thoory as taught in tho univorsities
and actual political lifo in Japan. Tho gop was so gront that "boing faith-
ful to tho Enporor vould involvo disobodionco to tho Govornmont, and, I four,
obodicncc to tho Govornnent vould involvo unfnithfulnoss to tho Enperor."
Roporting a conforenco botvoon Gonoral Dyko, Colonol Nugont, and Ministor
Abc, a SHUK'N ..S/HI cditoricl ontitlod "History Bascd on Facts" concludos
that thoro cro no irreconcil-bl. discropancics botwoon tho Inorican and tho
Japanoso approaches to tho problon of rovising tho to-ching of history.
Ex-Studonts of Militcry Schools
Sono concorn over tho fornor pupils of military schools is ovidoncod
in sido ronarks in articlos dovoted to othor subjocts.  HIK/.RI vritor,
Tsunatnko Furuya, says that tho militcry schools blottod out "freo olastic
thinking." is an cxanplo, ho r ports cn oral oxamination givon c group of
such studonts vho applicd for ontronco to civil Highor School. "Exninor:
'Havo you hoard tho torn critic-1 spirit?' No answor from tho studonts.
Ex-minor: 'Havo you heard tho torn criticism?' Soveral studonts: 'Yos'
Exaninor: 'Is it c good or a bnd thing?' Chorus of studonts: ! bnd thing.n
On tho other hend, an inquiring roporter fron OORU YOMIMONO rocords tho com-
plaint of c nothor vhoso son attonded a military school. "Tho studonts of.
various civil schools boycott quito cctivoly thoso studonts vho liko my son
attonded military school during tho var, cnd I think it is an act of vory
ncrrovi-ninded neannoss."
Langucgo Roform
Next to tho roforn of the toaching of history and morcls, the most
talkod-of cducationcl problon is the sinplificction of vritten Jananose.
Sometimos merely goneral statonents aro made, such as that of tho HIKiRI
articlo just citod, in hich Furuya conplnins that "tho noro capacity of
vriting charactors has bocome c kind of critorion of knolodgo and intolli-
gonco. * * * Under tho prossuro of nochanical nomorization, ability for
clastic thinking dios out." A. FUJIN Gi.HO writor is contont to contrast tho
clarity of Prosidont Roosevolt's nossago cclling for a doclaration of war
vith the obscurity of the Japanoso docl ration of ver, and a SFIN NIPPON
writor sinilarly contrasts Frosidont Truman's Now Yoar's nossago vith tho
simultanoous Imporicl Rosoript.
Many other writers plug unrosorvedly for tho adoption of Romcji (the
Roman alphabet), in their zonl attributing alnost overy conccivablo Japanoso
problom to tho uso of Kanji (tho Chinoso charactors). In SHIN IFFON, an
oditorial says that tho uso of Kanji is tho ccuso of Japan's cultural Iag,
and that the cdoption of Romaji vill bo tho first step toverd cultural rovo-
lution. "Militarists, policenon, and public officicls vho opprossod tho
pooplo wor fond of difficult Kanji, hich, liko tho sabor, voro used as a
symbol of cuthority. Nouspcpors uso far casior cheractors and words than
mcgazines in ordor to lot as many peoplo as possiblo rond thom corroctly,
but thero aro still many pooplo who crnnot road tho nowspapors." Tho writor
then points to tho advantagos of tho English ovor tho Japenoso typowritor,
and goos on to soy that tho rigid pupil-toachor rolationship roquirod to
momorizo Kanji is in itsolf uthoritarian. "is long as vo uso Kanji, domo-
cracy will not dovelop properly." In conclusion, although tho Ministry of
Education has plodgod tho tonching of Romeji in olonontary schools, the author
thinks thnt no cloar policy has as yot boon adoptod.
-3

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.97)
An articlo by Goro Hcni in tho DAIGikU SHIMUn (tri-month
wido commont and quotation in'othor poriodiccls. Hani sayu unog
Kanji sorves foudclisn by kooping culturo cvmy from tho common poopto
districts. Bocauso tho farmors cannot afford tho longthy oducation noo
loarn Kanji voll, nd bocauso tho intolloctuals sorvod only tho muling a
os in thoir dovolopnont of tho languago, tho farmors havo boon kopt in 
missivo ignoranco. This is tho fundrnontal ccuso of tho foudalistio nature
of Japanoso culturo. "You must hvo roalizod during tho war that Kanji is
a dovico of foudalisn. To hevo boon lod fron dofoat to starvation by thoso
difficult chcractors hich vo did not undorstand et all, such as Dai Toa
Kyoci Kon (tho Groct Enst Asia Co-prospority Sphoro). Hakko Ichiu (Eight
Corners Under Ono Roof), and Koizai ni Okoru Rinri (Ethics in Econony)."
Hani's articlo itsolf vas vritton in Romaji, tho uso of vhich ho advocatos
unrosorvedly. Ho scys tho problon is in tho hands of tho studonts thonsolves,
and urgos thon to donocrctizo thoir on univorsitios.
Tho nost striking and significant articlo on tho rofornction of tho lan-
guage occurs in SHUKiN SAHI, and is by Takoo Kumbara. Strongly condonning
the obscurity of the old writing as a nationclistic dovico, and ovor-riding
tho "art-for-art's-sako" viev that culturcl lossos vould rosult from rovision,
Kuvabarc advocatos a modorato cnd gradualistic roform, first rostricting tho
nunber of Chinoso charcctors, cnd thon gradually shifting ovor to Romaji.
Kuvabara citos tho clarity of French and compares it to tho confusions of
Japanoso, recclling that hon ho wns tho hond of c Tonari-guni, not ca singlo
roport was caccuratoly transcribod and not a monbor know tho cheractors for
soap, castor oil or broad. Two or throo yoars ago tho Governnont considorod
reforn, but concluded that complaints about tho difficulty of writton Japan-
ose voro duo sololy to lack of diligonco. Kuvabara calls this "an unscholarly
and nilitaristic viow. Thoso who advocated roforn woro ovon roforrod to as
Connunists."
"I hovo cono to tho conclusion that the problon is not ono to bo loft
in tho hands of tho narrov-minded litorary or classical scholars. Aftor all,
languago is tho tool of ovoryday lifo. Many havo objoctod to a philosophy
of art-for-art's-sakc, but in Japan a philosophy of langungo-for-langungo's-
sako has provcilcd. * * * Thero cro quito a fov pooplo who think that simpli
ficction of tho Japinoso languago vill socrcto tho pooplo fron tho clnssics,
and ovontually ccuso c doclino in tho patriotic spirit. It is unnecessry to
say how closcly tho Jopanoso langucgo is conncctod vith tho nrtional spirit,
and such things as tho adoption of English should bo strictly forbiddon. * *
* If tho Japanoso litorary non truly undorstand the classics (Chinoso litor-
aturo) cnd cro ardont about thon, it is thcir duty to uso c simplifiod Ian-
guago which roflocts tho spirit of tho clcssics, and I think that this is
possiblo. But in caso it is inpossiblo, tho roformction of tho Japanoso
languago ought to bo carriod out anyuey. In Japan tho classics havo boon
omphasizod as c part of tho rocont nationalistic rovivalisn. But in fact
Chinoso litoraturo is today far fron tho tasto of tho gonorcl public, and
thoro is no vay for it to b rostored ccopt by conpulsion."
"Evon thoso vho dofond tho classics aro ofton incapable of ronding thon.
If ono thinks that tho Confucinn classics aro nocossrry, ono hrs only to
put thon into sinplifiod Japanoso. Tho Christians do not road tho Biblo in
Hobrow." Kuvabara vants tho position of tho classics in tho curriculum ro-
viewod, pointing out that whilo thoy aro studiod in tho wost, thoy aro not
tho coro of tho curriculum. Tho rotontion of tho classics in Japan in ordor
to fostor patriotism is an onpty thoory, for whon thoro is hopo of a bottor
lifo tho patriotic spirit vill undoubtodly flourish. Rofornction of tho lan-
gungo is tho shortost cut to that goal. "My idon. is to rostrict tho uso of
Kanji narroly and systonatically. lthough in tho long run Roncji mey bo
usod, thoir innodicto adoption would ccuso confusion anong tho pooplo. I
theroforo suggost a fivo- and c ton-year plen to first rostrict and thon
abolish tho uso of choractors." Ho concludos stornly, "This rofornation
vill bo of no uso unloss it is carriod out n-tionclly vith control and foroo."
1. noro modorto school.of thought is typifiod by an oditoricl in Shukn
∴SI.HI which wolconos tho novcnont honded by Yuzo Yamanoto to donocratizo tho
languago, but hich is mthor consorvativo in rospoct to tho limitetion of
tho numbor of Kanji and tho simplification of Kana. Tho prinary oxphsis,

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.97)
 says tho odit r, hould be on "iow o coh mho tho langunge
beautiful." Ho advocates toaching granmar in primry schools i
forcing pupils to loarn vorb forms by sheor nemory.
School Administration
Sono of tho profossional oducators pooh-pooh goneralizod non-profos
sional criticisn end insist that juggling various intornal arrangenonts in
tho school syston is noro important than tho adoption of swooping roform.
For instance, Akira Yoshida, an clonentary school principal, says in KokU-
MIN KYOIKU that "it is more nccossary to inprove oducctional machinery cnd
administration than to make sone adjustnont of words and Kanji." His spoci-
fic inprovomonts: co-oducation in tho higher grados; occupational guidaneo
coursos, actual participation in social sorvico vork as c part of the
school program. In tho sono ncgazino cnothor principal thinks that improving
tho physical condition of classroons, along vith rovision of tho toxtbooks
and an abandonmont of tho dictatorial menner of toachors, is paranount.
Ho clso vants sclf-governnont in tho schools, but vorns agcinst cortain Gorn-
an cxporinonts.
A thousand and one pot idons aro plugged. A FUJIN GAHO writor wents
spocial classos for tho young girls of Japan wh woro forcod to quit school
during tho var. Ono not so disintorostod toachor, vriting in GEND'I, adds
faulty cducction to tho intorminablo list of causos of dofoat, and recommonds
tho oponing of night schools to mako up for lost tino. inothor. GENDAI writor
thinks that above all clso tho Pocrst School :ust bo abolishod. Still anothor
writer in tho sano nagazine conplcins thet adninistretivo officials and poli-
ticiens in tho Ministry of Educstion are gonorally ignorant of tho spocinl
problens of scionce and the spocial facilitics and tochniquos that aro ro-
quirod. As a ronody ho proposos a soparcto Ministry of Scionco and Tochnolo-
gy. A fourth GENDAI articlo takos a crack at tho oxenination systom. Whilo
onc SHUKLN ASIHI cditorial heils tho roturn of tho 5-yoer niddlo school
courso and tho 3-yoar highor school courso, cnothor profossos joy at tho
prospoctive arrival of the Amorican cducational onvoys. A KORoN articlo
by Koisho Honda says, "Tho nothod of toaching and studont lifo ought to bo
changed conplotoly. Japanoso cducation is an organization in vhich tecchors
only givo lossons, and in vhich thero is no cooporativo study botweon stu-
dents and toachors."
1. ranbling NIPPON KYOIKU articlo by T-notaro Suzuki cdvocatos, among
other things, nore scionco coursos, tho usc of vorbal oxaninations, tho
fusion of tho presont niddlo and highor schools, cqucl oduc-tioncl opportuni-
ty for womon, and onphasis on foroign languagos. Of  onon ho says that sinco
thoy aro rapidly boconing inrortinont anyhov, giving thon c bottor oducation
cannot harn thoir mannors. Kotaro Tanaka, also writing in NIFPON KYOIKU,
says "What I vent to stress nost is tho nocossity of lonrning forcign lan-
guagos. This has boen ignorod during c critical tino. Tho fcct that vo woro
ignorant about tho trond of intornational cffcirs hes beon one of tho groat
causos of dofoat. By nastoring c foroign langurgo no con undorstand ono
nation's culturo. This is tho starting point tovard vorld poaco. It is
notoworthy that tho nagazinos cro using ovory trick and dovico to toach thoir
roadors English. Thoso dovices rango fron tho racy introduction of occnsionel
English slang cxprossions into Japonoso storios to forncl lossons in English.
Typical is a story callod "Yasuki and tho inoriccn Langucgo" in FUJIN GAHO,
which 'turns out to bo nercly cn oxcuso to uso, vithing tho franovork of a
flimsy narrativo, as nany inorican colloquialisns as possiblo.
Educctional Econonics
Thoro aro innunorablo connonts, ospocially in cartoons, cbout tho inado-
quato pay of tonchors. Ono M.NGi. cartoon has bocono rathor fanous; it shows
c tonchor roprinanding c studont for csking hin c difficult quostion, saying
ho cannot tako tino fron naking a living in tho blnck mrkot to look up tho
answor. An articlo in GENRON by Hidonitsu Suginoto proposes tho forntion
of c. consunors' association for toachors "in ordor to help thon to mintain
tho dignity of thoir profossion." Roforring to tho povorty of high school
teachors, thoir nongor salarios and scanty diot, thoir long trips hono from
vork, Suginoto suggosts that large housos noar tho schooIs bo rontod for thon
for community living to savo tino and monoy.
-5

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.97)
Tho plight of toachors is poronnial; but somowhat moro w
plight of tho studonts, to which tho magazines froquontly point
rato pioco of photographic roporting in AS/HI GRiPH captionod "Mola
tho Univorsitios," tho conora shovs that studonts spond moro tino t
to koop clivo than studying. Thoy aro forcod to pay oxtromoly high qo
and to onduro hardships and hungor. In sono solf-govorning institution
food is particularly hard to obtain. A cartoon ontitlod "Tho Ploasuros or
Tolstoy" shovs a student doing his bost to study in c crondod train with
cnornous kncpsack on his back, obviously fillod with food vhich ho is bring
ing in from tho country. A. SHUK:N LS.HI roundtablo discussion by univorsity
students roports only a 25% attondanco at locturos in Tokyo Inporial Uni-
vorsity bocauso of tho problcns of food and housing. It is pl-nnod to os
tablish a cooporativo cssociction so that studonts living in tho country
can roturn to school. Tasoda boasts of c hugo dormitory, but its food prob-
lon ronains to bo solved. Rikkyo is contonplcting oporating a farn in con-
junction vith its dornitory. Incidontally, tho spockors clain that tho major-
ity of studonts aro Social Donocrats and that tho Conmunists composod 30%
of tho studont body, including sono vho clain to bo Connunists but uphold
tho Tonno syston. Viowing tho ovorall problon, Honda, in tho KORon arti-
clo alroady roforred to, protosts that instoad of a 30% cut in tho budgot
of tho Ministry of Educction, "I daro to advocato a 10% incroaso."
Individuclisn
Writers on cducctinal problons love to bandy tho vord culture, but
scldon do thoy give it much spocific moaning. Thoy talk cbout donocratizing
oducation, but soldon do they suggost that this norns doveloping a rospoot
for tho human worth of tho individual. in cxception is c. roundtablo dis-
cussion in SEIKiTSU BUNK, vhich complains that "Japaneso culturo has failod
in tho discovery of individuclity." It is notorious that th Japanoso lan-
gungo is poor in torns to distinguish individualisn fron cgoisn, and in fact
"the Tojo Cabinot decided that thoso two things voro tho sono."
* * * * * *

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.91)
LAP
DIVEMON OF POREIGN
ACTION:OFS
RYICE ADMINSTRATIC
1072 //
INFO:
FE
APR 8 - 1946
OIC-5
Yokohamn, Jq nin
OFS
RPARTMENTOFSTATF
DC/R
Date sent: arch 27,1946
Dute received:
46
2:35 p3m.,Apr.4
APR 51946
TICT D
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TT
R
J
PA:
PA
1-52
arch 27
PA
ererence Depurtment'e unrestrictcd in truction no. 43 of Dec-
FA:
ember 28
1945 to the cting U.. Political advicer ut Tokyo request-
FA.
ing infoumatlon vith regurd to the condition and etatue of Kobe Col-
PA: 13
lege
PA
TE
following information with regurd to the college hue now been
reccived
from the rilitury Government Section of Hoadquarters Eighth
8
rmy
PA
6
Ps.
Thie collece vue the only Chrictian Educational Institution
4
PA.
in funan which continued to hold morning chanel and bible ser
9
tices throughout the recent var. On the faculty there ie one
2/
Gernan-Jewisn woman, one Russian woman, one American woman
nd
severul Jananeue teachers. rcsent enrollment includes
bix hundred studente in the academic school (7th to 10th
FA: 3
hrade) une rour nundred firty students in the coliege depurte
FA: 31
kent. It is expected that.there will be a total of seven
FA. 32
hundred in the college denartrent vhen the new term starts
FA: 33
in April 1946:
4
FA: 34
PA: 36
The
buildingr, twenty-eight in all, are in sood shupe and have
PA: 36
not
been affected by the uir raide. The occunation forces are
hっt
plecing aay demande on this oreanization for real estate
br
Ju oliee. The financial cituation is reported ao being in
PA:4
preoure in the amount of seventy thousand yen (t70,000)."
:1
42
INFO
A:43
JOFFO
SEP 801
3
0.Johnson/kuh
848
FSP
FR
FSS
FBO

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.96)
WAR DEPARTMENT
CIVIL AFFAIRS DIVISION
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
fm
4 April 1946
Mr. Frank A. Schuler
Acting Assistant Chief, ADO
894.42/4-446
OIC, Department of State
Room 534 War Manpower Building
Washingtom, 25, D. C.
Dear Mr. Schuler:
This will reply to your memorandum of 1 April 1946
x9740.00119
regarding the request of Mr. Roland Elliott to ship to Tokyo
300 books for use by students in Japan.
Control
3
If you can furnish the Civil Affairs Division with a
(gapan)
list of the titles to be included in this shipment, we will
be pleased to refer such list to the Supreme Commander for
Allied Powers, Tokyo, for approval and, at the same time, re-
quest that he furnish the Civil Affairs Division a shipping
priority for the books.
MAY 28 1946
FILED
Sincerely,
CS/H
O. P. ECHOLS
Major General, USA
Director, Civil Affairs Division
Chard.
TE
Robert H. Chard
Colonel, GSC
Dist
Executive
OI OUPIED REAS DIVISION
(ADD)
MAY 2
Wate Oemereed
Department of State

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.97)
DC/R
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japan, April 16, 1946
No. 375
SUBJEOT: Attitude of Leading Japanese Political Parties Toward
Education
1312
The Honorable
2-1946
The Secretary of State,
NT OF STATE
Washington.
894.42/4-1646
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose copy of a memorandum dated
March 27, 1946, prepared by a member of the staff of this
Mission on the subject "Attitude of Political Parties Toward
Iducation." After listing the statements regarding education
which have appeared in the platforms of the Progressive,
Liberal, Social Democratic, and Communist Parties, the vague-
ness of political party statements on education is pointed out
and the points in which there is general agreement are enumerated.
Recent activities of a political nature by teachers and students
in colleges and universities are discussed, as well as the direc-
tives of the Ministry of Education regarding participation in
political campaigns end the formation of teacherst and students!
unions.
Respectfully yours,
George Atcheson, Jr.
Enclosure:
Copy of Memorandum
of Maro5 27, 1946.
Original and hectograph to Department
842
JWBarnett: jwb
CE V) Unit

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to despatch No. 375 dated April 16, 1946, from the
United States Political Adviser, Tokyo, Japan, on the subject
"Attitude of Leading Japanese Political Parties Toward Educa-
tion".
COPY
MEMORANDUM
March 27, 1946
SUBJECT: Attitude of Political Parties Toward Education
The platforms of the political parties contain little
specific material on educational problems even in their ex-
pressed attitudes on ideology and social conditions.
The following statements have been taken from the party
platforms.
Progressive Party
1. Improvement of netional education based on personal-
ity development and spirit of service. A statement on the edu-
cation policies of the Party wes issued February 16, 1946, and
is attached as an appendix.
Liberal Party
1. Abolition of narrow nationelistic ideology: establish-
ment of Japanese-type democrecy based on the principle "Emperor
and People in one".
2. Establishment of national cultural institute.
3. Reform of laws for universities.
4. Extend school terms to 3 years for high schoo, 3 years
for university, and 5 years for middle school.
5. Abolition of standardized compulsory education. En-
couragement of individuality of students through respect accorded
to individual opinions of instructors.
6. Encouragement of social science: development of civic
knowledge and civic virtues.
7. Establishment of complete equality between state and
private schools: abolition of academic cliques (gakubatsu).
8. Improvement of prestige and material treatment of teachers.
9. Abolition of Government influence in religion and arts.
10. Encouragement of competitive sports.
Social Democratic Party
1. Developmentof a new Japanese national culture and free
exchange of international culture.
2. Promotion of a spirit of social solidarity based on re-
spect for the individual.
3. Diffusion of knowledge of socialism; unification of labor
and education.
4. Elevation of the national level of scientific and techni-
cal knowledge.
5. Promotion of scientific technology and establishment of
research organs; improvement in treatment of scientists and tech-
nicians.
6. Adoption of the metric system.
7. Extension of the period of compulsory education; thorough
reorganization of the educational system.
8. Government scholarships to deserving students without
financial resources.
9. Elimination

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.99)
2
9. Elimination of Government interference in religion.
10. Respect and guarantee of freedom for the arts.
1l. Improvement of physique of people through encouragement
of sports.
12. Promotion of Esperanto as an international language.
Communist Party
1. Opposition to militaristic, imperialistic legislation,
culture, and education. Establishment and vigorous dissemination
of progressive culture for the emancipation of the people.
These statements show that some party leaders realize that
educational reform and increased financial support of education
must be faced in the next Diet. There is agreement that educe-
tion must be democratized, that the cirriculum must be revised,
that civic education is necessary, that teachers' salaries must
be increased, and that the school term must be lengthened. There
is some support for increasing the number of years of compulsory
education, for the decentralization of school authority in order
to break up the concentration of higher educational institutions
around Tokyo, for the acceptance by the Diet of responsibility
for education, and for establishing legal equality between state
and private institutions.
The promotion of scientific education is also singled out
for attention. Many Japanese feel that the war was lost because
the Japanese were insufficiently educated in science to compete
on an equal basis with America and Great Britain.
The Progressive Party was the first to advocate that any
laws fundamental to education should be enected in the future by
the Diet, in lieu of Imperial ordinances.
Although the party leaders recognize that political educa-
tion is advisable, if not necessary, for the newly enfranchised
women and for youths who have not previously voted, the campaign
has not developed much educational activity. Political leaders
have arranged for educational talks for women and for youths by
party workers and by teachers, who have emphasized the duty to
vote and discussed the economic stituation. Many articles have
been published in the metropolitan and provincial papers directed
toward the political education of women.
There has not been much political activity in colleges or
universities. Many institutions at first did not permit the for-
mation of political clubs. At most of these institutions students
and faculty have made arrangements for candidates and officers
of the political parties to speak to faculty and students. Fre-
quently student groups initiate these arrangements through their
economics or literary societies.
The attitude of the Ministry of Education regarding the
participation of teachers and students in politics was clarified
somewhat about the end of February when it was announced that
there was no objection in principle to participation of faculty
and students in the political gampaigns. Permitted activities
included the formation of political groups, and students and
teachers were to be allowed to become candidates. Such activities,
it was

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.99)
-3~
it was ruled, must not interfere with university courses. Party
propaganda must not be carried on in the classes. Otherwise there
were no restrictions. In accordance with Article 10 of the Elee-
tion Law, a teacher in e government school must resign his post
if elected to a public office. This provision does not apply to
teachers in private institutions. In the past, several private
college and university teachers have held political elective
offices and retained their institutional position and salary.
It was to be anticipated that following the above decision
the political parties would proceed to organize political clubs
among college and university students. Although there are a few
such instances, in general little has been accomplished. The
Communist Party carries on student work through the Student League.
The Jiji Press , March 7, 1946, carried a stody that the Communist
Party was planning to organize university and college students inte
Kakushin Gakuto Domei (Reformist League of Students) under the
leadership of SATo Yoshino, a professor at Doshisha University.
The Progressive Party announced a plan to organise student clubs,
which met with little or no success.
An editorial in Minami Nippon Shimbun (Kagoshima), February
10, 1946, stated that "local leaders of the Socialist Party de
clare that...utterances of some of the primary school principals
are palpable interference with the party's election campaigm".
The paper reported that the Socialist leaders are collecting evi-
dence to campaign against such educators on the ground that their
attitude is *...conducive to the spread of a reactionary trend of
thought." Another editorial in this paper demanded "an epochal
personnel reshuffling" in the educational circles of the prefecture.
The political campaign has influenced the teachers: unions,
both nationally and locally. There is little evidence that any
political party has great influence over these unions, although
there have been statements to the effect that the Communist and
Socialists are more influential than the other parties. There is
evidence to show that the parties do not actually control the
unions, but members of all political parties are active in the
unions. There have been a number of reports of local union
officials taking precautions to prevent the untons from being
used as tools in the political campaign.
The task of the political parties in this current campaign
is immense. Food, economic, and constitutional problems are so
impertant that political parties, not being sure of the student
minority vote, have spent most of their time, money, and organizing
effort with the adult voters and on the turning out of the vote of
all eligible to vote. They have not devoted especial attention to
the problems of education or to students or teachers as groups.
Political leaders are anxious to have a high percentage of
votes cast in order to prove that the Japanese people are capable
of organizing a democratic government.
Political party statements and activities regarding educa-
tion show thet education is not to be considered a very important
issue in this campaign. Little attention has been given in cam
paign speeches to the educational system. The party platforms con-
tain a few generalities on the democratization of education, the
improvement of conditions for teachers, the elimination of mili-
tarism, and the changing of teaching methods to develop the in-
dividuality of students. The more specific statement of the
Progressive Party (appendix) advocates that all laws regarding
education be passed by the Diet in the future, thus abandoning
the system of Imperial Rescripts. It also recommends a complete
reform

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.96)
4
of the sducational system, and the rehabilitation of the war
damagec schools on a national planning basis which would de-
centralise institutions.
The Communist leader, NOSAka Sanzo, is quoted by the Nippen
Times, April 2, 1946, as saying in reply to the question "What
would your policy be in education?", "Our educational policy would
be according to our general ideology". Again in response to the
question "If a religious school were regarded as hostile to
Communism, we could not allow it."
This study of the attitude of political parties toward
education reveals that little can be learned from their published
and spoken statements as to what they intend to do as a party
regarding educational legislation. Few commitments or promises
have been made.
Karl C. Leebrick
842
KCLeebrick: jwb

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.97)
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
UN211946
Date: June 20, 1946
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
894.42/6-2046
Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
State Department
Washington, D. C.
John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject:
ALLEGED COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN
SELECTION OF EDUCATORS FOR JAPAN
I thought the Secretary and you would be interested in some
information recently reaching our Chicago Office through a confidential
source.
According to the source, in connection with the compiling of
the list of educators to be sent to Japan, it was felt by the American
CS/RH
Federation of Teachers, an American Federation of Labor affiliate, that
a representative member of their organization had been omitted deliberately.
This list was reported to have been composed by the Cultural Relations
Staff in the State Department under the direction of Charles Thompson.
It was the opinion of the informant that Communist influence in
the State Department was responsible for the omission of a representative
of the American Federation of Teachers from the list. He reported that a
man named Jacobson whose first name is unknown but who was formerly
connected with the University of Chicago, is now employed by the State
Department and reputedly possesses Communistic leanings. He also advised
that Kermit Eby, Educational Director of the CIO, whom he considers a
Communist Party sympathizer, is on the State Department's approved list
of educators to be sent to Japan.
0
C
The foregoing is furnished you merely as a matter of information.
FILET
2 3 1946
DCK NE Unit
+2/C-2046
cc: Assistant Chief of Staff
ard
G-2, War Department
Washington, D. C.
Attention: Reading Panel
D1F
DECLASSIFIED
NNO 280069
By ZC./CCMARS, Date 8: 23.2

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.96)
Tee
TO
: AH, Mr. Hilldring
DATE: June 21, 1946
FROM
OIC, Mr. Stone IS
SUBJECT:
Appointment of liaison officers for information and cultural
affairs to SCAP and AMGIK
895.42
As you know, on or about July lst OIC personnel in occupied
areas will be transferred to the War Department peyrolls. Simul-
taneously, CAD will become responsible for servicing inter alia
the Civil Information and Education Section of SCAP and AMGIK.
It is hoped that arrangements can be worked out to provide suitable
liaison between OIC and the Reorientation Branch of CAD. In order
to insure, however, that the Department's long-range views on day
to day questions in the field of information and cultural affairs
can be brought to the attention of SCAP and AMGIK, and having in
mind the eventual transfer to the Department of the responsibility
for implementation in these fields, I feel very strongly that a
Departmental liaison officer in the field of information and cultural
894.42/6-2146
affairs should be immediately assigned to SCAP and to AMGIK. There
would appear to be two ways in which this could be done:
a. an officer from OIC could be assigned to the Diplomatic
Section of SCAP and to the Political Adviser's office
in Seoul, respectively;
b. an officer from OIC could be lent to SCAP and AMGIK
to work in the departments of Civil Information and
Education, and Bureau of EducationPublic Information
Section respectively.
It is believed that in the case of Korea it would be preferable
to assign someone to POLAD and in the case of Tokyo, where there is
no longer a POLAD, to assign a man directly to C I & E.
In either case it would be contemplated that officers would
be sent for a period of from 3 to 6 months in order that the thinkingΩ
of SCAP and AMGIK on information and cultural matters could be 
S
frequently made available to the Department in a personal manner 
In both cases the officers would be integral members of the respocti?
headquarters and would not report to the Department except insofar 
894.42
xr
ADO:FASchuler, Jr.,/jg
1412

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.76)
REORIEN
CIVIL AFFA
27
CLINT-STOC
=APE
TIT.
DICYND. CN
14
. 
∴ DU
CAF
RG:CNA SP:
2-L-STS
:APAN
33333
PICTURE ITOR
DITCA
21
316
9333
R333
? D-CS.
PICTURE MITOR
? AT. S
nass, dfor
CAF
CA
CAF
1
CERN-STDC.
A597.
OPYNTEARA
co
CAP
CAF
C 
-.
ACH 
ZEN-STOCS.
二DR- STDIC.
DITOR OF ANDRTCAL
SHE RESCA
333
12
ASST. LITCH
COM-STDIC.
333
. DI
CLDE-STDIC.

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.73)
RIENTATION BRANCH
FFAIRS DIVISION WDSS
xi or P8
LE-SDC F AP
MA
. xt or 
CAP
:1:0
Cr
H:
RAN
FLANS
STGRRANY
CAF
:Ai
CF
0 
L19-9TDC
4999.
CAD
A
27
LY  
ART DIT U-IT
1397
RDIC.
CAF
CAS
AA
ASST. AIIN AND FISCAL FIER
CLER-STDIC.
N
CAF
CN
R -
215
CAF
H    
NE-STDC.
495T.
CAF 12
CAS
LM-D
CAS
CLE-STENC.
:AF

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.98)
ADDRBGS OFFICIAL COMMUNICATIONG TO
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
WASHINGTON
JAPANESE
AFFAIRS
9020
DIVISION
SEP 27 1946
DEPARIMENT OF STATE
September 26, 1946
MEMORANDUM
To:
FE - Mr. James K. Penfield
From:
Via:
DRF - Charles C. Stelle CS
JA - Hugh Borton HB
Subject: Airgram to U.S. Political Adviser, Tokyo
Thanks for your suggestion that our request for information
from CI&E in Tokyo go via airgram to POLAD. The attached text is sub-
mitted for your approval.
Our tendency toward unofficial .channels is the result of
inability, up to the present, to get needed materials and information
through War Department channels. It will be a most pleasant change
if Mr. Atcheson can assist us in future to fill some of the gaps which
have been plaguing us.
26

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.92)
做
AIRGRAM SENT
Department of State
4-13
NO.
Washington,
TIME
Oct 2, 1946
UWITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER TO THE
214
SUPRIDOE COMMANDER POR THE ALLIED PORERS
TOEYO (JAPAN)
214
Amswers to follewing questions desired in connectiem with eurrent
research work on Japamese eduoation and religions
1.. Any fairly specific figures on membership in teachers' mmioms
whion mig ilit (i)  vmptive lfi of t 
Eduoatoro' Union (Nippon Kyoikusha Kumiai). and the All Japan
Teachers: Union (Zen Nippan Ayein Eumial): (2) regianal distributio
X19894.404
of mamberahip in the two unions.
2. Ary official or quasi-official figures on sotool and university
attandance.
3. Toxt or outline of the Japanese Education Committee's proposals
to the Education Minister, made about April 2, 1946.
4. Thers appears to be an inorease in the number of eduoatiomal
5. Identity of those persons now heading majer shinto Shrines suck
Ise
a Tao,Moiji, and Yasukuni.
6. Present status of privately managed Shinto priestst sohools. What
NO
kind of oourses are they offering, and what sort of attendance do they
894.
have8
Coti d
7. Have the Shinto prieata' associations engaged in any widempread
activity since the disoontinuanoe of State support of Shinto Shrimes?
. Hemoag
8. Is there evidance of religions organirations betng used as retroats
by military personnel?
10-246
9. Statistics on the number of converts to Christianity since the
surrender?

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.90)
POETRANN
AIRGRAM SENT
Department of State
Washingtone,
NO
A- 13à to Takyo
TIME
In conversation with Mr. Fans of Dept some manths age a Majer C. Ma
of the C.I.aß. seotion indicated nis willingusss to supply infermatien
of this type. It is therefore suggosted that it may be pessible te obes
the answere to the above questions from him if he is still om daty as
headquarters.
Oldhaan
Qchij
es
Aohoson Aoting
3
9/23/46
FE
SNehmo) dw

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET
THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
SWN-4803
DC
7 October 1946
Office of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
00T-S1946
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
DIEETOS
Department of State
Subject: Policy for Revision of the Japanese
1946
Educational System.
fef
References:
e. SWNCC 108/1
b. SWNCC 108/2
By informal action on 5 October 1946, the State-
894.42/10-746
War-Navy Coordinating Committee approved SWnCc 108/1
as amended by SWNCC 108/2. A copy of the approved
paper, as amended, is transmitted herewith.
It is requested that the Department of State
forward the attached paper to the United States Member
on the Far Eastern Commission, with instructions that
its substance be presented to the Far Eastern Commis-
sion with a view to obtaining a policy decision on the
subject.
For the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee:
J. H. HILLDRING,
Chairman
Enclosure:
Copy No. 55, SWNCC 108/1
0/8/46
SECRET FILE
lie
Init
0C.11
SECRET

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.87)
746
REGRET
MEMOHANDUN FOR TLE UNITED STATES MEMBER,
FAR EASTERN OOMMISSION
894.42/10-746
In accordanes with 1nstruetlons of Oetober 7, 194s,
from the State-War-Mavy Coordinating Gommittee, there
18 enelosed = cony or Bwn0c lo8/1 on United states
Polioy for the Revisien of the Japanese Mueational
Syetem, upproved by the State-War-Navy Coordinating
Comm1ttee on Ootober 5, as amended by 3WNCC 108/2.
The United Stater member, Far Eastern Comaisslon,
ic requested to preeent the views of the United Btates
on the Revislon of the Japanese Edusational System to
the Far Eastern Commlesion with a view to obteining e
polioy deeielon on the pubjeet.
7C
J. H. Billaring
Assistang Beoretary
8
f
Enclosure:
00py No. 58, 8W0C 108/1.
2
J Duk
10/481
R
46
F.M。

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.96)
MISSIONARY RESEARCH LIBRARY
3041 Broadway, New York 27, N. Y.
Telephone: MOnument 2 - 7100
CHARLES H. FAHS, M.A., Corete
LIBRARY COMMITTEE
MISS HOLLIS W. HERING, B.L.S., M.A., L
Representing
the Foreign Missions Conference
Rev. Fazd Fizld Goodsell, D.D.
Rev. L. K. Andzason, P.D.
REv. WYNN C. FAIRFiELd, D.D.
Miss SAra S. Lyon
Jo R. Mot, LL.D.
Rzv. Eic M. Not, D.D., Ph.D.
OCT 15 1946
Rev. Emory Ross, D.D.
Rev. A. Ervinz SwiFt, B.D.
GT8 10/21/48
Representing
Union Theological Seminary
Rzv. Hznry P. Van Duszn, Ph.D.
October 10, 1946
Rzv. CHARLES W. IGLzAT, D.D., Ph.D.
Rzv. Lucy W. Marklzy, Ph.D.
CHAL T. WHIT
Dr. Gordon Bowles
21946
Department of State
Washington, D.C.
Dear Dr. Bowles:
Dr. David Stevens, of the Rockefeller Foundation,
has told me of the typewritten report of the Educational
XT894.42A
Commission which went to Japan last summer and has
encouraged me to hope that we might secure from you a
copy for this library. Also, my son, Dr. Charles B. Fahs,
told me of a printed document on Education in Japan,
which for a time at least, was for restricted use only.
Since he gave me that information I have seen a copy of
this printed document and was told by the holder that
the restrictions were off.
CS/V
May we have for this library a copy of each of
these documents? Needless to say, the agencies which
we serve have a profound interest in the future of
education in Japan.
Sincerely yours,
FAHS
311946
DOR NE Unit
TE
-1046
Dis

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.93)
OC1 28194
In reply refer to
ADO
y dear t. Fans:
Reply1ng to your Latter of October 10, 1946, adares-
Fid
sed to Dr. Gordon T. Bowles, permit me to say that we
taks pleasure in sending to you under separate cever esm
copy each of "Education in Japan" and "Report of the Unie
ted States Edwoation dission to Japan". Wo trust thess
894.42
documents will reaeh you in good condition.
Sincerely youra,
Henry P. Leverich
Acting Chief
Division of Ocaupied Aroas
ADO
Under eparate Covers
1. Copy of "Education
in Japan".
o
Copy of "Report of
the mited States
Education ssion
to Japan".
r. Charles H. Fahs, Curetor,
dssionary Research Library,
3041 Jroadway,
New York 27, Bew York.
DO:DX Duchanan/mby
10/21/46
OIC
JA

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.90)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
JRF
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDSTELEGRAPH BRANCH
yile1247
Erom
Toko 1214
Datea.
October 16, 1946
Mailed.
Cetober 9. 194t
DD
un estricted
:oc'c
Nov. 8, 2:03 p..m.
ACTION: OCD
894.42/10,1646
INFO:
DC/R
A-B
secr etary or State,
A-H
gninton, D..
FE
DC/L
9.Octo21194
FC
defcrenco e mrtment e -1, Uctoter  lt, recucstin
OIC
uetailod insorartion on JpEeco cducntion ad rell ton
OF3
it te r eretted thet witu s a xesent pe connel ef thia to tnn
and the grcat amount os urgent vorx confrontin ue caily it coald de
phypicelly imno cible to osteln enc orcsese pre mntly at tuis tire the
infor etion requeetrd in the Degr twent"s eirur  unier reference.
In tais connection. refcrence io rie to our te e m , J 0. 1946.
in wmici: we reguected inter elia one ofiicer to evote full tine to
forwerding inforwation for tna Department. In n ite of cur Neevy
burden of ovcrtine work enu continuing sior tege  sur nonnel, every
effort is being made to gather docunentery oete  qteetec in Icvions
Decertrent inatructicng end reporte ere going for erd in ceuh vouch.
Every cifort vill be   to btain fror 'ar preriete section
of Gen ral Headquertere pue fore'rd re ir omptl ne sdeniule tre information
epecifically re uccted in the. Desarteert's eis rem nder retreace.
894.42/10-1646
MCV141947
840.4/842
MNBishop: nf
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.96)
FILE NO.
DO NOT DETACH FROM WHITE COPY
R E C O R D C O P Y
THE ATTACHED WHITE COPY OF A TELEGRAM OR
AIRGRAM HAS BEEN DESIGNATED THE REC ORD COPY TO
REPLACE THE YELLOW ACTION COPY  HICH WAS NOT
894.42/10-1646
RETURNED TO THE C ENTRAL RECORDS BY THE ACTION
OFFICE.
THE COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR
FILING.
-0-
FEB101947
FLOD

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.85)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION:ORGOMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
DEPARTMEN OF STATE
 NOV 12 A9.3
2r00
Tolaro 1214
RECORDSRANCH
Jaten.
Cotober 16. 1946
1
kailed.
October 9. 1946
DD
un sstricted
Nov. 8, 2:03 p..m.
ACTION:OCD
INFO:
DC/R
A-B
secr utary ot State.
A-H
esniuton. .
10-245
FE
DC/L
AP. Otob . 
FC
defee  ent  eto  L recuctin
OIC
ctesleo snt orction on re co oenttoo erd vell ton
OFS
yR894.404
It le rreretted tret vit  aaent ereounel ef thie ta ton
and the grcnt suount or urgrut vor cortrontin as cadly it coatd de
894.
phyotcr lly iajo cible to obtain m prceees nomotly at toie tire the
Pnfo etion requestre in toe De vr t ent"n sirra ier reference.
In tis connsction, reference is e to our tele  o. J . 1046.
in wuich we renuec ed inter elle one olticer to uovote ful ttse to
力
forwerdine iutoruation for toe ope tment io soite or our hoevy
tur den of evertine vore ene cenrtaing eer tege ef tr sonnct. every
2
effort tp being mede to geter cocu entery dete reatected in revione
Decartrent insuruettons aud roosrte ere soim for erd in  ech souch.
Every cifort kill ve mw e co cbtein from t appropriete aeetion
of Gen pol Hcadcuarters pnc foreve a or omptly po ppesiule tre information
cpecifically re leated in the Devartrent"e eirerem meer retrr euec.
力
840.4/842
C
RoBishop: mf
Dei

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.94)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
fle
OIC OCCUPTED AREAS ON SION
(A00)
UNCLASSIFIED
SK
FEB 181947
No. 860
R
15
11
SUBJECT:
Request by Soviet Member of Allie
for Information Concerning Japanese Education.
The Counselor of Mission in Charge has the honor to enclose a
894.42/1-2947
1
copy of a letter, January 10, 1947, from Lieutenant General K. N.
Derevyanko, Soviet Member of the Allied Council for Japan, request-
ing information concerning the decentralization of the Japanese
2
system of education, and of this Mission's reply (as the Diplomatic
Section of General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers), January 23, 1947. There is also enclosed a translation of
3/
the interim report of December 27, 1946 of the Japanese Educational
Reform Council entitled "Reorganization of Japanese Education System".
The copies of memoranda issued by the Supreme Commander to the
Japanese Government, mentioned in sub-paragraph 2 of this Mission's
reply to General Derevyanko, include all directives on educational
matters issued to the Japanese Government since April 1, 1946. Copies
of these directives have already been forwarded to the Department.
2
50128
TO:
ZESP
Enclosures:
600D
1.
From Lt. General K. Derevyanko to
Chief of Diplomatic Section, General
1CIG
Headquarters, Supreme Commander for
CS/A
the Allied Powers, January 10, 1947;
1 FC
2.
From Chief of Diplomatic Section,
3Wan
General Headquarters, Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers, January 10, 1947;
12
3.
Interim Report of Japanese Educational
Reform Council, December 27, 1946.
Original and hectograph to Department.
8
500/842
'JUN 11 1947
94.42
WJSebald/blc
2
H
FILED
-2947
D1si
225

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 840, dated January 29, 1947, from
the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject
"Request by Soviet Member of Allied Council for Japan for Information
Concerning Japanese Education".
TRANSLATION
COPY
ALLIED COUNCIL FOR JAPAN
TOKYO
OFFICE OF THE MEMBER
FOR
THE UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS
To: Chief of the Diplomatic Section of General Headquarters
Ambassador George Atcheson
Mr. Ambassador:
In connection with your comment at the allied Council on
13 November 1946 that General Headquarters is making a study of the
question of "decentralization of Japanese system of education", as
well as that the question of reorganization of the education system
in Japan is being developed by the Japanese Government, I have the
honor to request you that information be given me concerning the
following questions:
1. A copy of the English translation of the project of reorgan-
ization of system of education in Japan, developed by the Japanese
Government, submitted to General Headquarters.
2. What directions were given by General Headquarters to the
Japanese Government on the questions concerning public education,
during the period from April 1946 up to the present time.
3. Headquarters' material on the decentralization of the
Japanese system of education.
4. The proposed plan of publishing new manuals for the Japanese
schools and also, if possible, one copy of each of the new manuals
already published.
5. In what stage of their accomplishment are the proposals made
by the Mission of American Educators who visited Japan in March 1946.
6. The list of members of the Central Commission on Public Edu-
cation, of the Japanese Ministry of Education.
Respectfully yours,
/s/ K. Derevyanko
Lieutenant General
Member, Allied Council for Japan
from U.S.S.R.
No. 1011
10 Jan. 1947

=== Page 149 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 840, dated January 29, 1947, from
the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject
"Request by Soviet Member of Allied Council for Japan for Information
Concerning Japanese Education".
COPY
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE AILIED POWERS
Diplomatic Section
23 January 1947
Dear General Derevyanko:
Reference is made to your 1etter no. 1011, 10 January 1947, on
the general subject of the reorganization and decentralization of
the Japanese system of education. With reference to the several
questions raised in your letter under reply, the following information
is set forth.
1. A copy of an English translation of the Interim
Report of the Japanese Education Reform Council, including
all recommendations made up to and including the meeting
of December 27, 1946, is enclosed. A number of the basic
recommendations contained in this report are now being
implemented by the Ministry of Education. Such implemen-
tation will also include new educational legislation.
2. Copies of memoranda issued by the Supreme Commander
to the Japanese Government on educational matters since
April 1, 1946 are enclosed. Reforms in Japanese education
are being developed by the Ministry of Education under the
supervision of General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers. Planning and progress of the Ministry
of Education is continuing.
3. The report of the United States Education Mission
which visited Japan during March 1946 made recommendations
regarding decentralization of the administrative control of
the Japanese educational system. The recommendations re-
garding decentralization of administrative control, in general,
have formed the basic policy adopted by this Headquarters.
4. A new course of study, including instructions to
teachers, and textbooks for the revised curricula are being
prepared by the Ministry of Education. Copies will in due
course be available to the Members of the Council.
5. A number of the recommendations of the United States
Education Mission regarding instruction material are being
implemented as described in paragraph 4. Ministry of Education
plans for implementation of other recommendations of the United
States Education Mission are included in the implementation of
the reconmendations of the Japanese Education Reform Council as
mentioned in paragraph 1.
6. A
Lieutenant General K. N. Derevyanko,
Member for the Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics,
Allied Council for Japan,
Tokyo.

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 2 to
Tokyo's 840,
January 29, 1947.
-2-
6. A list of members of the Japanese Education Reform
Council appears on Page 1 of the enclosed Interim Report.
Sincerely yours,
/s/ GEORGE ATCHESON, JR.
Enclosures:
1. Copy of "Reorganization of
Japanese Education System".
Copies of Memoranda to
Japanese Government.

=== Page 151 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 840, dated January 29, 1947, from
the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject
"Roquest by Soviet Member of Allied Council for Japan for Information
Concerning Japanese Education".
TRANSLATION
COPY
REORGANIZATION
of
JAPANESE EDUCATION SYSTEM
Interim Report of:
Japanese Educational Reform Council
(Through 17th General Meeting)
27 December 1946

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.98)
Encl. No. 3 to
Tokyo's 840,
January 29, 1947.
-2-
CONTENTS
I. Members of the Japanese Educational Reform Council.
II. Sub-Committees of the Japanese Educational Reform Council.
III. The Aim of Education and the Basic Law.
IV. The School System.
1. The Middle School.
2. The Three-Year Koto Gakko.
3.
Institutions of Higher Learning.
4.
Education of Teachers.
V. Private Schools.
VI. Educational Administration.
1. Fundamental Points in Reform.
2. Administrative Units.
3. Financial Support.

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 3 to
Tokyo's 840,
January 29, 1947.
-3-
I.
MEMBERS OF THE JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL REFORM COUNCIL
NAMBARA, Shigeru
TORIGAI, Risaburo
SHIMADA, Koichi
TAKAHASHI, Seiichiro
AMANO, Teiyu
KAKINÚMA, Kosaku
TAKAHASHI, Takamichi
SEKIOUCHI, Rikichi
SANO, Toshikata
KOMIYA, Toyotaka
UENO, Naoaki
HOSHINO, Ai
MUTAI, Risaku
KIKUCHI, Ryudo
TAGAWA, Fusataro
OTANI, Euichi
YANO, Tsuraki
USHIYAMA, Eiji
ARUGA, Sanji
NAGURA, Aikichi
YAMAGIWA, Taketoshi
KURAHASHI, Sono
OSHIMA, Masanori
OCHIAI, Taro
ABE, Yoshishige
KINOSHITA, Kazuo
KAWAMOTO, Unosuke
ANDO, Masatsugu
KIDO, Bantaro
SEKIGUCHI, Yasushi
TAJIMA, Nichiharu
WATANABE, Tetsuzo
TODA, Teizo
ASHIDA, Hitoshi
KAWAI, Kichiko
HANETANI, Ryotei
TAKESHITA, Toyoji
MORITO, Tatsuo
KURE, Bumpei
ISHII, Mitsujiro
TSUBURAYA, Mitsue
INOUE, Tomoharu
ARIMA, Hideji
MORIYAMA, Yone
OIKAWA, Tadashi
NAKADA, Eitaro
TAKANINE, Nobuko
TANAKA, Yoshio
KAWANISHI, Toyotaro

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.97)
Encl, No. 3 to
Tokyo's 840,
Jamnry 29, 1941.
-4-
II. SUB-COMMITTEES OF THE JAPANESE EDUCAT IONAL REFORM COUNCIL
First Sub-Committee..........Aims of Education.
Second Sub-Committee.........School System.
Third Sub-Committee..........Administrative Reorganization.
Fourth Sub-Committee.........Private School Education.
Fifth Sub-Committee..........Normal Schools and Higher Institutions.
Sixth Sub-Committee..........Teachers' Status.
Seventh Sub-Committee........Social Education.

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 3 to
Tokyo's 840,
January 29, 1947.
-5 -
III. THE AIM OF EDUCATION AND THE BASIC LAW OF EDUCATION
(Adopted at the General Meeting, 29 November 1946)
1. The need for enacting a basic law of education was recognized.
2. The aim of education should be stated in the basic law of
education as follows:
a. Object of Education:
The object of education shall be the enlightenment
of human nature and the development of a nation, sound in mind and
body, - a democratic and peaceful society and state composed of
individuals who are dedicated to the principles of truth, justice,
and cooperation, and who value personality and who respect the
dignity of labor.
b. Principle of Realization of Education:
For realization of this object of education, efforts
should be devoted to nuturing through education an autonomous and
spontaneous spirit within each individual to enable him to contribute
to the creation and development of culture through his respect and
affection for and collaboration with others.
c. The Basic Law:
The above paragraphs, a and b, should be attached to
the basic law of education in order to make clear the origin and
purport of that law. The contents of the basic law should make clear
the following points:
(1) Defects of the uniform and perfunctory education
as previously conducted.
(2) That the construction of a new democratic cultural
state in harmony with the new Constitution depends
upon the strength of education. This law should
show the trend of the new concept of education.
(3) Relations between the basic education law and the
new Constitution and between the law and other
educational regulations.
(4) That the reform of Japanese education requires
resolution on the part of the Nation.
d. Provisions of the Basic Law:
The basic law of education should define the educational
implications of the new constitution as regards the following items,
and should point out clearly the fundamental principle of each item:
(1) Equality

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 3 to
Tokyo's 840,
January 29, 1947.
-6-
(1)
Equality of opportunity in education.
(2)
Compulsory education.
(3)
Education of girls and women.
(4)
Social education.
(5)
Political education.
(6)
Religious education.
(7)
Intrinsic nature of the school.
(8)
Status of teachers.
(9)
Educational administration.
e. Scope of Basic Law:
In drafting the basic law of education, consideration
should be given to deliberations of the meetings of the Japanese
Education Reform Council and its sub-committees.
f. Draft of Basic Law:
The Ministry of Education should prepare a draft of
a basic law of education in conformance with the concept outlined
above.

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 3 to
Tokyols 840,
January 29, 1947.
-7-
IV. THE SCHOOL SYSTEM
(Decisions made at the 16th General Meeting, 20 December 1946)
1. The Middle School (Grades 7-9, name tentative).
a. A three-year school on the lower secondary level, com-
prising grades 7, 8, and 9 should be established contiguous to the
six-year elementary school for the purpose of extending the basic
education of the people.
The school is tentatively referred to as the "Middle
School".
b. This school should be a full-time one, organized on a
coeducational basis, and attendance shall be compulsory.
c. It should be housed in its own separate building.
d. It should be staffed with full-time principals and
teachers.
e. Such a school should be established in every city, town,
or village.
f. To establish equality of opportunity in education, this
should be the only type of school contiguous to the elementary school
which comprises grades 1-6.
g. This school comprising grades 7-9 should be established
1 April 1947.
h. Appropriate economic measures should be taken to establish
this school.
2. The Three-Year Koto-Gakko (Grades 10-12, name tentative).
a. A three-year school on the upper secondary level, com-
prising grades 10, 11, and 12 should be established, with provision
made so that it may become either a 4-year or a 5-year school.
The school is tentatively referred to as the Koto Gakko.
b.
This type of school should offer either full-time or part-
time work.
c. It may be either coeducational or non-coeducational.
d. It may offer both general education courses and vocational
courses.
e. All graduates of the lower secondary school, grades 7-9,
under 18 years of age, should receive general education for at least
a prescribed minimum number of hours e ch year.
3. Institutions

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 3 to
Tokyo's 840,
January 29, 1947.
-8-
3. Institutions of Higher Learning. (Decisions made at the
17th General Meeting, 27 December 1946).
a. Schools contiguous to the three-year Koto Gakko should
be four-year institutions in principal, with provision that there also
may be three-year and five-year institutions on this level.
b. Post-graduate courses or institutes should be established
in universities to receive those who have graduated from the university
and wish to continue study.
4. Education of Teachers. (Decision made at the 17th General
Meeting, 27 December 1946).
a. Education for teachers should be provided by institutions
of higher learning which have only one faculty or which have several,
by establishment of an educational course of study in the institution.

=== Page 159 === (confidence 1.00)
Encl. No. 3 to
Tokyo's 840,
January 29, 1947.
-9-
V. PRIVATE SCHOOLS
(Decisions made at the 17th General Meeting, 27 December 1946).
In order to place private schools on a firm social and
financial basis it is desired: (1) That these schools be given
assistance in the sound development of school administration;
(2) That these schools maintain public and democratic character-
istics; (3) That these schools be made special juridical persons
separate from juridical persons as established by civil law.
In establishing the school juridical person law the
following points should be considered:
1. Private schools should be permitted to carry on profit-
yielding enterprises, the profits to be used in operating the schools,
insofar as the enterprises do not hinder the educational activities
of the schools.
2. Membership of the boards of directors should include
some professional educators.
3. Private schools should originate such democratic pro-
cedures as establishment of a board of councillors fram the school
staff having responsibility to answer inquiries of the school board
of directors and to submit its opinions to the school board.
4. Officials of private schools should be regarded by law
as public servants on the same basis as are officials of public
schools.
5. Private schools should be exempted from taxes and should
receive other financial assistance.
6. The right of government officials to dissolve private
school juridical persons and to dismiss private school officials
from their posts should be acknowledged. But such corporations or
persons should have the right both to file petition and to initiate
legal proceedings. In case of either action, the execution of the
order should be suspended.
7. A committee, including representatives selected from an
Association of Private Schools, should be formed which can answer
inquiries of the supervising governmental officials and submit opinions
to them.
8. Supervision by government officials should be conducted
along lines yet to be determined by the Sub-Committee on Educational
Administration.

=== Page 160 === (confidence 1.00)
Encl. No. 3 to
Tokyo's 840,
January 29, 1947.
-10-
VI. EDUCATIONAL ADMINISTRATION
(Decisions made at 17th General Meeting, 27 December 1946).
1. Fundamental Points in Reform.
Fundamental reform of educational administration should
be made, and special stress should be laid upon the following
points:
a. Rectification of hitherto customary bureaucratic
standardization and formalism.
b. Attachment of importance to the just opinion of
citizens in educational administration.
c. Confirmation of autonomy of education and decentrali-
zation of educational administration.
d. Establishment of close connection between various levels
of the formal educational system and social education.
e. Attachment of importance to studies and researches con-
cerning education.
f. Adjustment of educational finance.
2. Administrative Units.
In conformity with the above principles, the educational
administration should be independent of local civil administration
as far as possible, and it must be carried out by the autonomous
educational organizations of the people. For that purpose the
following suggestions are made:
a. In each village, town, city, and prefecture an educational
committee composed of members elected from among citizens should be
organized to make decisions concerning education. Each education
committee should elect an educational president (tentative title -
duties same as those of superintendent of schools in the United States)
as the person responsible for carrying out the recommendations of the
education committee.
as a rule, this education committee should have charge
of both formal school administration and social education within its
area of jurisdiction. The committee should also concern itself with
such matters as the establishment, abolition, and operation of schools;
contents of education; personnel administration; and educational
finance. As it has close relationship with the local civil adminis-
tration, especially concerning local finance, every consideration
should be given to carrying out its responsibilities in harmonious
relationship with the local civil administration.
b. In

=== Page 161 === (confidence 1.00)
Encl. No. 3 to
Tokyo's 840,
January 29, 1947.
-11-
b. In administration of higher educational institutions,
the prefectural areas are too small to function as independent units.
A more satisfactory unit could be established by the union of several
prefectures to form a district for purposes of higher educational
administration, which district could function through two organizations:
(1) a district educational committee, and (2) a district educational
research institute. These committees should rectify the disparity of
contents of education and of educational finance among various pre-
fectures. They should plan appropriate administration of educational
personnel.
Prefectural education committees within the district should
elect members of a district educational committee to be set up to repre-
sent that area.
The district educational research institute should carry out
investigation and research concerning education in conformity with local
situations, and should, on basis of its findings, advise educational
authorities of villages, towns, cities, and prefectures within the
district.
c. Each large metropolis should also establish a central edu-
cational committee to assume responsibility for study of important
problems, and to supply information to the Minister of Education.
d. The above plan for educational administration can be
diagrammed as follows:
AREA
COMITTEE
RESPONSIBLE OFFICER
DUTIES
1. Village,
1. Local Edu-
1. President elect-
1. Carry out
town or city,
cation Com-
ed by local educa-
recommendations
Establishes
mittee elected
tion committee.
of local educa-
local educa-
by citizens of
tion committee.
tion office.
locality.
2. Prefecture
2. Prefectural
2. President
2. Carry out
Establishes
Education Com-
Elected by prefec-
recommendations
prefectural
mittee elected
tural education
of prefectural
education Admin- by citizens of
committee.
education
istration office. prefecture.
committee.
3. District
3. District
3. President
Composed of
Education Com-
a.) Elected by
several prefec-
mittee. Elect-
Education Com-
tures. Estab-
ed by prefec-
mittee of district.
lishes district
tural education
b.) Selects members
education admin- committee of the
of district educa-
istration office. area.
tion research insti-
tute.
3. Financial

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 3 to
Tokyo's 840,
January 29, 1947.
-12 -
3. Financial Support.
a. The educational conmittee of a village, town, city
or prefecture should be authorized to request authorities of its
self-governing body to add to its general estimated budget a
specified sum of money considered necessary for local education.
b. Although the cost of compulsory education can properly
be borne by local self-governing bodies, for the time being in view
of the present condition of local finances, the greater part of the
expenditure should be disbursed from the national treasury.
c. Funds for expenditure by district educational committees
should be disbursed from the national treasury as a means of equal-
izing the disparity of educational expenditure among prefectures.
d. Because local educational expenses will increase in the
future, certain kinds of taxes should be transferred to the local
bodies to increase their revenue.
e. The national as well as the local public education
organizations should endeavor to maintain basic sources of revenue
in order to meet the educational needs.

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.95)
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE, N. W.
WASHINGTON 8. D. C.
27 March 1947
RESTRICTED
suixee
The Honorable Dean Acheson
30en
Acting Secretary of State
Men
Washington, D. C.
894.42/3-2747
My dear Mr. Secretary:
The Terms of Reference of the Far Eestern Commisadon provide that
one of the functions of the Commission should be to "formulate the policies,
principles and standards in conformity with which the fulfillment by Japan
of its obligations under the Terms of Surrender may be accomplished."
It is further provided that when such decisions are made by the
Far Eastern Commission, "The United States Government shall prepare direc-
tives in accordance with the policy decisions of the Commission and shall
transmit them to the Supreme Commander through the appropriate United
States Government agency."
At the fifty-first meeting of the Far Eastern Commission held at
2516 Massachusetts Avenue, Northwest, Washington, D. C., on 27 March 1947,
the enclosed policy decision relative to Revision of the Japanese Educa-
tional System was unanimously approved.
As Secretary General of the Far Eastern Commission, I have been
instructed to forward this decision to you on behalf of the Commission in
order that the appropriate directives may be prepared and transmitted to
the Supreme Commander in accordance with the Terms of Reference.
Before the enclosed policy decision was formally approved by the
Commission, the Australian Representative made a statement setting forth
CS/V
the views of his Government with regard to the decentralization of the
Japanese educational system, and the Indian Representative commented upon
paragraphs 2 and 7 of the enclosure. It was agreed that these statements
be recorded in the minutes and be trensmitted to the Supreme Commander for
his information. Excerpts from the draft minutes of the Commission's
fifty-first meeting, including these statements verbatim, are enclosed.
The Commission has accordingly instructed me to ask that the United States
Government in transmitting the appropriate directive based on the enclosed
policy decision to the Supreme Commander, also forward the Australian and
Indian statements for the Supreme Commander's information.
In adopting the enclosed policy decision the Commission agreed
that it should be released to the press after being received by the Supreme
15
Ua1
1st.

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
Commander. In accordance with our normal procedure I would appreciate it
if you could make arrangements to notify me when the enclosed policy
decision has been received in Tokyo.
Sincerely yours,
Telem rmethuso
Nelson T. Johnson
Secretary General
Enclosures

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.99)
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE, N. W.
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
Tue atteched copy of a document unanimously adopted
at the fifty-first meeting of the Far Eastern Commission,
held at 2516 Massachusetts Avenue, Northwest, Washington,
D. C., on 27 March 1947, has been compared with the origi-
nel text and is hereby certified to be correct.
Nelson T. Johnson
Secretary General
Washington, D. C.
27 March 1947

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
ZNCLOSURE
Praft Daedler 
POLICY FOR THE REVISION OF THE JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL SYSTEL
Guiding Principles and Objectives.
1. Education should be looked upon as the pursuit of truth, as
preparation for life in a democratic nation, and as a training for the
social and political responsibilities which freedom entails. Emphasis
should be placed on the dignity and worth of the individual, on indopen-
dent thought and initiative, and on developing a spirit of inquiry.
The inter-dependent character of international life should be stressed.
The spirit of justice, fair play, and respect for the rights of others.
particularly minorities, and the necessity for friendship based upon
mutuel respect for people of all races and religions, should be empha-
sized. Special emphasis should also be placed on the teaching of the
sanctity of the pledged word in all human relations, whether between
individuals or nations. Measures should be taken as rapidly as possible
to achieve equality of educational opportunity for all regardless of sex
or social position. The revision of the Japanese educational system
should in large measure be undertaken by the Japanese themselves and steps
should be taken to carry out such revision in accordance with the princi-
ples and objectives set forth in this paper.
Training, Recruitment, and Conditions of Service of Teachers
2. Those teachers and other educational officials whose record shows
them to have been pronounced exponents of ultra-nationalistic, militaris-
tic, or totalitarian ideas, should be forbidden to teach or engage in
other employment connected with education.
3. Short refresher courses and vacation schools for teachers
should be opened, so far as possible, in order to train them in-democratic
ideas.
4. The development of modern techniques of teaching should be en-
couraged and opportunities should be provided for teachers to become ac-
quainted with these techniques. In this connection, regard should be had
to the value of affording teachers opportunities of transferring from one
institution to another.
5. As a corrective to the regimented and limiting nature of normal
school training in the past, and to provide teachers with aims and tech-
niques in harmony with the objectives of the ocqupation, special emphasis
should be placed upon the reorganization of normal schools and the estab-
lishment of teachers training institutes staffed with the most competent
instructors available for inculcating democratic principles. Endeavors
should be made to increase the proportion of teachers who have had a
university training.
-1-
FEC-092/1

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
6. The teaching profession should be recognised as of vital
its economic status should be improved to a degree commensurate with this
importance. Consideration should be given to the establishment of malary
scales affording all teachers a reasonable stendard of living according to
their abilities, qualifications, and responsibilities without the mecossity
of supplementing their income from outside sources. A basic living wage
should be guaranteed for all teachers, with increases according to their
qualifications.
Textbooks. Curricula and Teaching Methods.
7. Teaching of ultra-nationalism, state Shintoism, veneration of the
Emperor, exaltation of the state over the individual, and race superiority,
should be eliminated from the educational system.
8. Textbooks and other reading material thet contain such ideas as
those outlined above should be withdrawn from use in schools. New text-
books should be issued which give an understanding of progressive ideas.
Foreign books should be made available, especially in central libraries,
and for teachers. These objectives should be given due weight when alloca-
tions of paper supplies and imports of foreign publications are made.
9. Courses in social sciences, civics, constitutional law and govern-
ment, current events, world affairs and international cooperation should be
made an integral part of the educational system at appropriate levels of
teaching.
10. Teaching of military subjects should be totally forbidden in all
educational institutions. The wearing by students of military-style uniforms
should be forbidden. Classical sports, such as KENDO, which encourage the
martial spirit, should be totelly abandoned. Physical training should no
longer be associated with the SEISHIN KYOIKU. Greater emphasis should be
placed on games and other recreational activities than on pure calisthenics
and drill. If former servicemen are employed as drill instructors, or in
connecticn with physical training or sport, they should be carefully
screened.
1l. Imperial rescripts should not be used as a basis of instruction,
study, or ceremonies in schools.
12.
. Independent thinking on the part of teachers and students should
be encouraged.
13. Uniform minimum etandards should be prescribed for the different
levels of instruction in all the schools of Japan, whether public or private.

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
Adult Bducation.
14. Adult education should be promoted rapidly by the use of all
suitable facilities such as evening classes, university extension courses.
the radio, the cinema, and libraries.
Vocational Education.
15. Japanese youth should be provided with opportunities for varied
vocetional training and guidance and appropriate organizations for this
purpose.
Educational Administration and Finance.
16. The Japanese Government should seek advice from representatives
of all walks of life either through a non-official advisory council or
otherwise.
17. The Japanese Government should exercise such control over the
education system as will ensure the achievement of the objectives of the
occupation, particularly the reforms called for by this policy decision.
Subject to the foregoing, and to maintenance of standards prescribed by
the Government, the responsibilty for the local administration of educa-
tional establishments should in due time be decentralized. Japanese
parents and citizens should be encouraged to feel a sense of individual
responsibility for the achievements of the objectives set out in paragraph
1. Where practicable they should be associated with the control, develop-
ment, and work of the schools and other educational institutions.
18. The plans enumerated in this peper should be closely correlated
with the reforms in the social, economic and political life of the nation.
In the implementation of the educational policies outlined above, funds
should be allocated for all essential educational reform commensurate with
the needs and resources of the nation.
19. In order that educational standards in poor districts should not
be lowered by tne inability of some local bodies to provide sufficient
finance from local revenue, finance for education should come for the most
part from the national government, which should be responsible for the
maintenance of an adequate level of education throughout Japan. Local and
private bodies should be encouraged to supplement these funds provided by
the national government.
General.
20. Free and compulsory education should be provided for all Japanese
children for a minimum period of six yeare and should be extended to higher
age groups as rapidly as poesible.
21. More opportunities should be provided for higher education.

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
22. Equal opportunity for both sexes should be provided at all
levels of education -- primary, secondary, and tertiary.
23. Encouragement should be given to the formation and reorientation
of educational associations, parent-teacher associations; and to assist in
making the Japanese people aware of the significant changes in the diree-
tion of education in a democratic Japan, such groups should be encouraged
to consider practical problems of education.
24. Discrimination against the graduates of private schools in civil
service appointments should be eliminated, provided the schools in question
conform to educational standards laid down for the public educational system.
25. Educational institutions of foreign foundation in Japan have
played a useful part in the past in widening and deepening the scope of
Japanese education, and should be given equal rights to those of Japanese
institutions in future.
FEC-092/1

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.96)
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE, N. W.
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
The attached copy of excerpts from the draft minutes
of the fifty-first meeting of the Far Eastern Commission,
held at 2516 Maseachusetts Avenue, Northwest, Washington,
D. C., on 27 March 1947, has been compared with the origi-
nal text and is hereby certified to be correct.
Telem uoleuom
Nelson T. Johnson
Secretary General
Washington, D. C.
27 March 1947

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.99)
GERPTS FROM THE MINUTES OF THE FIFTY-PIRST MEETING OF THE FAR E
27 MARCH 1947
ITEM 5 - POLICY FOR THE REVISION OF THE JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL BYSTEM
(PEC-092/1)
Statement by the Indian Representative:
Mr. Chairman, I am grateful to you for having allowed me this
opportunity to discuss things in conference with you and your educational
adviser on the subject. I would not like to take up the time of the
Commission on this paper. I find that it is a most excellent paper, drafted
by those who know the subject. They have taken all relevant questions into
consideration and have dealt with them as well as they could in the ciroum-
stances. When I say in the circumstances I mean that Japan today represents,
along with some of the others whose fate is being dealt with elsewhere, a
country and a people who unfortunately were a little taoexcessive in their
ambition. They were carrying out their ambition in a form which had become
a menace to the world, which menace fortunately has now been conquered.
And now we must be very concerned that that menace is not revived in any
shape or form anywhere--not merely in Japan but elsewhere too. If the
world is to preserve peace, and if humanity is to grow along lines of
peaceful prosperity, then these tendencies have got to be restrained wherever
they may be found. That is the object behind this paper and I am entirely
in agreement with it. But there are one or two little points which have
occurred to me after a superficial reading of this paper in the short time
I have had at my disposal, and which I have mentioned to the Chairman. With
the help of his advice my doubts have been more or less satisfied for the
time being. But it is only relevant that I should mention these points to
you now so that you may also bear in mind how my mind is moving.
Now, if you look at page 1, paragraph 2, the opening sentence runs
as follows: "Those teachers and other educational officials whose record
shows them to have been pronounced exponents of ultra-nationalistic, mili-
taristic, or totalitarian ideas, should be forbidden to teach or engage in
other employment...." Please mark the word "employment" there, "...or en-
gage in other employment connected with education." Now, supposing for
instance, little children are being taught in schools and some of the se men
are available for supplying, shall we say, milk to the children, which is
possibly a. connected activity. After all we must see that the children are
brought up properly, and we supply them with milk. You know what the man-
power shortage is like all over the world. Supposing these people can be
employed in that particular activity, which will still be connected with
education but not education itself. I want to know whether this will bar
them. If so, I think we are drawing rather heavily upon our resources of
manpower. That is one doubt. I don't know whether that doubt has been
completely resolved, but I do not wish that little point to become a hin-
drance in the passage of this paper.

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.97)
-2
Paragraph 7, relating to textbooks, curricula, and teaching methods
says: "Teaching of ultra-nationalism, State Shintoism....should be eliminated
from the educational system." Now I fear that the expression "State Shintoism
infringes a principle, a fundamental principle, not that I for one second
desire Shintoism to be revived anywhere in that form, because, after all,
militarist Shintoism has certainly proved a very dreadful thing as far as
Japan is concerned. I have not the slightest doubt about it and nobody would
like it to be revived in that form. But it is a question of a people -
I am going to the fundamentals--claiming a teaching to be religious. Are we
today sanctioning that principle? Are we telling anyone todey that religion
in any shape or form or in any particular form shall not become State religion
anywhere? What about Christianity? There are certain countries where Chris-
tianity is a State religion. The United Kingdom has a form of Christianity
as a State religion. Later on you may find it difficult, after having laid
down a law or principle like this, you may find it difficult to defend it.
I am only warning you. That is about all. It is quite possible that some-
body may come up afterwards and say no religion shall ever be taught anywhere
as a State religion. Personally I may be quite prepared to subscribe to it
because religion and State should never be confused. It is a wrong thing
to do. But it is a point for you to consider. It is easy for us to lay
down certain rules and fundamentals in a hurry and then find later on that
they become halters around our necks. Thi- is a doubt which I have expressed.
中
幸
Statement by the Australian Representative:
The Far Eastern Commission has not laid down in any detail in
paragraphs 16, 17, 18, and 19 of FEC-092/1 how the Japanese educational sys-
tem is to be decentralized. It has been felt that the Commission should
do no more than lay down general policy, in order that the Supreme Commander
will have the greatest possible degree of discretion in determining what is
most suitable in the light of current circumstances. The Australian Govern-
ment fully agrees with this, and hes complete confidence in General Mac-
Arthur. However, the Austral ian Government would like to state formally its
more detailed views, and to ask that these be sent to General MacArthur for
his guidence in the degree and timing of decentralization, the Supreme Com-
mander of course retaining full discretion as to the extent to which he
follows these lines.
It is believed that comprehensive educational reform is likely to
be most effectively handled by a centralized Government department. There-
fore decentralization of administration is not recommended for general policy
planning, finance, appointment of teachers, conditions for teacherg, provision
of buildings, planning of educational standards, and the over-all conduct
and planning of research programmes. However, the carrying out of details
of administration should be decentralized. This decentralization might be
accomplished most effectively by placing local administration of education
under district superintendents of education, appointed by the

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.99)
Japanese Government, who should be educationalists of standing. It is
believed that the schools and teachers should not be under the montrel
the prefectural administrations. In determining curricula, a central
authority should make general suggestions for all subjects and should
specify requirements of standards; however, within those limits, decents
sation should occur, and is recommended particularly for social studies,
biological sciences and vocational subjects in which local conditions
should play an important role.
It is not considered that the Japanese people, particularly in
rural and remote areas, are yet fitted to undertake the responsibility of
local supervision of education through educational committees or boards
elected under local franchise. Nor is it considered that the teaching
body as a whole is fitted to accept immediately the freedoms in determining
curricula and teaching methods implied in a decentralized system. The pro-
cess of decentralization should take place gradually over a period of some
years and should keep pace with the progress of development of democratic
thought among teachers and parents.
Any sudden change-over from central control to complete decen-
tralization might result in chaos, in giving too great control in remote
districts to reactionary and ignorant elements of the population, and in
making difficult the Supreme Commander's supervision and inspection of
educational reform.

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.88)
APR 2 1947
43/47 fe
RESTRICTED
N.
In reply refer to
NA
MOANDU ECRRY. NCO
894.42/3
Subjoot: Drart Direotive Rogarding rolioy for the
Revision of the Japeneme Rdusational Syetes
Thore is euclosed a drart airootive propared on the
basle of a olloy aeclalon unanics siy  proved at the
fifty-rirat eeting f the Far Lastern Conzlsslon on
arch 27, 1947 undor the provialons of paragraph I1, A. 1.
2747
of its terme r rufsreice.
It is auested tiast the enulosed cireetive be for
warued to the jint iniefo or tafr for tranamiaslon to
Genaral ao rti.ur for is uldanoe in aceardanee witn
paraeraph IlI, l, of the torms if reference of the Fas
dastern Co issls.. It ss assuued thet if the Joint
C lsfs f  tafr nave auy ueetlon regardine the drare
ar.
direotive t ey will refer tle natter to the 3tate Depars
mont for cleririoutio: vefore trenmnitting a diroctive
un tuo aubjoot.
It la a no rouuosted that the upreme O nmander for
C
S
the llled osre be liformod t.t before tho polloy d
oislon waa a provod by tne onlesion the ustrallan
repredentative made  statedont settine forth the vlowe
A
of is ovorn unt wi tr. rogure to the docentralizatlon of
the Japanese ocucat! al syeten, and the luclan roprosenta-
tive oo. mentod ,oi. paragrapns 2 anc 7 of the enolooure,
and that these etatenonts us roosrded in the urart minutes
of the o micsio..'s firty-first meoting be transmil tod
874.4
to the uprs .e  aandor.
The eoretnry Ganeral r the Far aatero Conmission hae
re,wested t at the Joint Chlefs ? tafr, ln tranaaitcing
the e closec rt direotive to tle u ane omander
2
3)
for
2

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.87)
-2-
the llied Powers, Laform nia that is adoptins the
poliey deeision regarding the revisiom of she Japasese
edweational myaten ts Cosmlssicn agreed that it sheald
be released to the press after beins reeeivsd by the
Supreme Conmander.Therofore, in accoréanee 
moreal procedure, eeknowledemeat or the recsipt of the
direetive is requested.
J.
J. H. Hillaring
Amsistant Seerotary
Knolosures:
1. Draft Lirootive
2.
kxoorpt from kinutes.
A true copy of
theged one
12101
APh
Na: ADunng1mho
3-28-47

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.92)
DOLOSURE1
PRAIT DIREOTIVE BEGABDINO THA BAVIGION
 JAA CATONAL 
The following directive, prepared by the State Bepart
mest to implement the poliey adopted by the Far Easterm
Cossisaion on Mareh 27, 1947, under the proviaioms of
paragrep II, A, l, of ite torms of referenee hee beem se-
Geived from the State, Nar and Havy Departmente fer twemm-
mission to you for your guidence in mccordance with pere-
graph III, I, of those terns of referenee:
Guiaing Prinoiples and Obiootives.
1. Eduoation ahould be looked upon as the pursuis of
truth, us a preparation for life in u demccratio masion,
and as a training ror the mocial and political repommibili-
ties whioh freedon entails. Emphasis should be plaeed om
the digaity and worth of the individual, on indepemdens
thought and initiative, and on devel ping a spirlt af in-
quiry. Ths intor-dependent character of internatiemal life
should be strossed. The spirit of justies, fair play, and
reapect for the rights of others, partioularly aimorities,
and the ndcessity for friendahip bassd upon mutual respeet
for people of all races and rellgions, should be emphasized.
Speuial eaphasis shouid also be placed on the teachlng of
the manotity of the pledged word in all human relasions.
whether botween individuals or nationm. deasures mhould
be taion as rapidly as possible to aonieve equality of
eduoational opportunity for all regardless of sex or seetal
position. The revision of the Japanese edueational syatam
should in large measure be undertaken by the Japamese
themselves and steps ahould be taken to oarry ous sueh re-
vision la socordance with the prinoiples and objeetives
set forth in this paper.
Treiaing, Reorultmont, and Conditione of
Servioe of Teachers
2. Those teachers and otuer educatiomal offioials whese
record shows them to have been pronounced exponents of
ultra-nationalistic, militaristic, or totaliterian ideas,
should be forbidden to teaon or engage in other employmeat
∞nneoted with education.
3. 3hort

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.92)
0
3. Shert refreaker courses and vesatios saheels Bes
teashers should be spaned, so far as pessible, ia oréar
to train them in demooratic ideas.
In this conneetion, regard should be had to the valme ef
affording teashers opportunities of transferring fromms
institution to another.
5. As a corrective to the regimented and limitins
mature of normal sehool training in the past, end te pre-
vide teachers with aims and teshniques in harmomy with
the objeotives of the occupation, speoial emphesls should
be pleced upon the reorganization of normal sehoele and
with the most competent instruotors available for imsul-
eating denocratic principles. Endeavors should be made te
inerease the proportion of teachers who nave hed è uns-
versisy training.
6. The tesching profession uhould be resogmised es
of vital iaportance to the future welfare and demeerasle
develo ment of the nation, and its economio status shoulé
be improved to a degree commensurate with thie impertamse.
Consideration should be given to the eatablishment of malary
seales affording all teachers a reasonable standard of
living aesording to their abllities, qualirications, and
respoasibilities without the necessisy of supplemeatins
their income from putside soureas. A basle living wage
should de guaranteed for all teachers, with inereases mscord-
ing to :heir qualificatios.
Textbooks, Currioula and Teaening Methode.
7. Teeoning of ultra-nationaliem, atate Shintoism,
vemeration of the Imperor, exaltation of the state over the
individual, and race superiority, should be eliminated from
the educat onal systen.
E. Textbooks and other reading material that omain
sueh ideas as those outliced above should be withdrame from
use in sahools. New textbooks should be issued which give
an uaderstanding of progressive ideas. Foreign books should
be made available, especially in central libraries, and
for teachers. These o jeatives should be siven due weight
when allocations of paper supplies and imports of foreign
publioations are made.
9. Courses

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.95)
RSTRICTED
-30
10. Teaching of military subjeete should be tetally
Classioal sports, suoh as KEnDO, whieh emcourage the
martial spirit, should be totally abaadoned. Phyaieal
traiaing shouid no longer be assooiated with the skxamin
EYoIKU. Greater emphasis should be placed on gmes and
other reoreational astivities than on pure calisthemles
and drill. If forzer servicemen are smployed as drill
lnstructors, or in connection with physieal treiming or
sport, they should be caref ily moreened.
1l. Imperial resoripts should not be used as a basis
of instruetion, study, or ceremonles in mobools.
12. Independent thinking on the part of teashere 
students atould be encouraged.
13. Uniform minimum standards should be preseribed
for the different levels of instruotion in all the sabeels
of Japan, whether publio or private.
Adult Education.
14. Adult education should be promoted rapidly by the
use of all muitable facilities suoh as vening classes.
university extension courses, the radio, the o neme, and
libraries.
Vocational Education.
15. Japanese youth mhould be provided with opportunities
for varied vocatio al training and guidance and appropriate
organizations for this purpose.
Eduoational Adninistration and Finance.
16. The Japanese Government should aeek advioe from
representatives of all walks of life either through a non-
official advisory couneil or otherwise.
17. The

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.94)
BESTRICTER
control over the eduoation syatem as will cmsure sh
responsibility for the mehiovemeats of the objeetives
set out in paragraph l. Where practicable they should me
associated with the control, development, and work of the
mohools and other educational institutions.
18. The plans enumerated in this paper should be
and political life of the nation. In the implemeatatiem
of the educational policies outlined above, funds meuld
be allocated for all essential educetional referm eemmes-
surate with the needs and resouroes of the nation.
triots should not be lowered by the insbilisy of some
losal bodies to provide sufficient finencs from lesal reve-
nue, finance for education should come for the most part
from the national government, which should be respeasible
for the maintenance of an adequate lovel of educatiem
throughout Japan. Local and private bosies mhould be
enco uraged to supplement these funds provided by the matlomal
governaent.
Ceneral.
20. Free and compulsory education ahould be previded
for all Japanese onildren for a minimum period of six years
and should be extonded to higher age groups as rapidly as
possible.
21. More opportunities should be provided for higher
eduoation.
22. Squal opportuaity for oth sexes should be pro-
vided at all levels of edusation-- primary, seconda, and
tertiary.
23. Encouragement should be given to the formasion
and reorientation of educational associations, parent-
teacher associations; and to assist in making the Japamese
people aware of the signirioant ohanges in the direetion of
edusation

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.95)
DBSTRICTED
education in a demasratr Japan, suoh groups should be
encouraged to oonsider prectical problems of edueation.
24. Discrimination against the graduates of private
sshools in civil service appointments should be elimimat
provided the sohoole in question conform to edueational
standards laid down for the public educational system.
25. Educational institutions of foreign foundation
and deepening the scope of Japanese education, and hould
be given equal rights to those of Japanese institutions in
future.

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.93)
HXOHRETS FRON T VTH  T -ST WN
亚 THE YAR LASTAUI COHMYSBYON, MARCA 22. 1942
Iru 3 - Polley of the Revisiom of the Japasese
Kéueational System (FgC-092/1)
Statement by the Indian Representative:
Mr. Chairman, I an grateful to you for having allowed
me this oppertunity to disouss things in coaference with
you and your educational adviser on the mubjeet. I would
aot like to take up the time of the Commismion on this
paper. I find that it is a most exoelleat paper, drafted
by those who know the subjeot. They have taken all rele-
vant questions into co sideration and have dealt with shem
as well as they couid in the ciroumstances. When I may in
the ciroumstances I sean that Japan today represents,
along with sone of the others whose fate is being deals
with elsemmere, a country and a pooplo who unfortumately
were a little too excesmive in their mmbition. They were
earrying out their ambition in a form whieh had besame a
menace to the world, which menace fortunately has now been
conquered. And now we must be very coneerned thas shat
menece is not revived in any shape or form anywhere--mst
merely in Japan but elsowhere tco. If the world is to
preserve peace, and if hunanity is to grow along lines of
peaceful prosperity, then these tendeneies have got to be
restrained wherever they may be found. That is the objeet
benind this paper and I am entiraly in egreement with Is.
But there are one or two littls pointe which have eeeurred
to we after a suporficial reading of this paper in the
short time I have had at my disposal, and whioh I have mea-
tioned to the Chairman. With the help of his adviee my
doubts have been more or less satisfied for the time being.
But it is only relevant that I abould mention these points
to you now so that you xay also bear in mind now my aind
1s soving.
Now, if you look at page 1, paragraph 2, the opening
sentence runs ss follows: "Those teachers and other
educational officials whose record shows thes to have been
pronouneed

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.93)
-2
employed in that partioular aotivity, whiek will ssill he
to know whether this will bar them. If se, I think we are
Is one doubt. I don't know whether that doubs hes bees some
pletely resolved, but I do not wiah thas litale poims to
become a hindrance in the pasmage of sais paper.
Paragraph 7, -elating to textbooks, curricula, amd teaah-
ing methoda, says: "Teaching of ultra-matioaaliss, State
Shintoism....mhould be aliminated from the edusasional
system." Now, I fear that the expression "State Shiateisa"
infringes a prinoiple, a fundamental pricciple, nos shat I
for one second desire Shintoisn to be revived aayamere ia
that form, because, after all, silitarist Shiatelmm hes
certalaly proved a very dreadful thing as far as Zapea is
coneerned. I nave not the slightest doubt about it and mo-
body would like it to be rovived in that foza. mas is is a
question of e people --- I ax going to the fundemsatalser
claiming a tesehing to be religious. Are we today sameties-
ing that prinoiple? are we telling anyone today that
religion in any shape or form or in any parsiealar fesm shall
mos become state religion anywhere? What about Christiamlty?
There are certain countries where Christianity is a Stase
having leid down a law or prindiple like this, you may find
it difrioult to defend it. I am only warning you. That is
about all. It is q ite possible that somebody may somm up
afterwards and sey no religion shall ever be taughs aayekere
as a State religion. Personally I may be quite prepared se
subsoribe to it because religion and State sho ld mever be
confused. It is a wrong ting to do. But it is a poiss for
you to consider. It is eamy for us to lay down cartaim rules
and fundamentals in a hurry and then find later on thet shey
beeome haltere around our neoks. This is a doubt whieh I
have ezpressed.
Stasemems

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.94)
Statemeat by the Australian Representative:
this, and has complete confinence in General Maearshur.
ly its more detailed views, and to ask that these be sent
to General Maairthur for his guldance in the degree and
timing of decentralization, the Supreme Commamder of eourse
retaining full disoretion as to the axtent to whiek he
followe these lines.
It is believed that comprehensive educationel mefomm
is likely to be most effectively handled by a ceatralimed
Covernment department. Therefore decentralizatiem ef ed-
moss effeetively by placing local administration of edssaties
under distriot superintendents of education, appeiated by the
Japanese Governmont, who should be sducatioaalists of stasd-
ing. It is believed that the sohoels and teachers should
not be under the control of the prefectural admimistratiems.
In determiaing currioula, a central authority should make
seaeral suggestions for all subjeots and should spesify re-
quiremente of standarés; however, within those limits, de-
centralizatios should occur, and is recomsended partieularly
for mocial studies, biological soiences and vocational sub-
jeots in wiioh local conditions mhould play an impertaas rele.
It is not considered that the Japaness people, mrtisular-
ly in rural and remote areas, are yet fitted to undertake
the responsibility of local supervision of education through
educasional committees or boards elected under losal fzemekise.
Sor is it considerad that the teaching cody as a whele is
fitted to accept immedlately the freedoms in determining
currisula and tesching methods implied in a deeeatralised
systes. The process of decentralization should take plase
gradually over a period of some years and should keep pase
with the progress of development of demoeratie thought amons
teachere and parents.

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.92)
Any sudden change-over from centrel sontrel to ess-
plete desestralisation might result in chees, in giving
loo sreat control in remote distriots to resesionary and
igmorant aleneats of the population, and in making difri-
culs the Supreme Co mander's supervision and imepestios
of ducational reform.

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.98)
APR 2 1947
RESTRICTED
In reply refer to
NA
MEMORANDULA FO HE SECRETARY, SWNCC
Subjoot: Draft Direotive Regarding Polioy for the
Revision of the Japanese Educational System
There is enolosed a draft diroctive prepared on the
basis of a polioy decision unanimously approved at the
fifty-rirat meeting of the Far Eastern Commission on
March 27, 1947 under the provisions of paragraph II, A, 1,
of its terma of reference.
It is requested that the enolosed direotive be for-
warded to the Joint Chiefs of Staff for transmiesion to
General MacArthur for his guidance in accordanee with
paragraph III, 1, of the terms of reference of the Yar
Eastern Commission. It is assuned that if the Joint
Chiefs of Staff have any guestion regarding the draft
direotive they will refer the matter to the State Depart-
ment for olarification before trananitting a direetive
on the subject.
It is also requested that the Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers be informed that before the polioy de-
oision was approved by the Comnission the Australian
representative made a statement setting forth the views
of his Government wi th regard to the decentralization of
the Japanese educational system, and the Indian representa-
tive commented upon paragraphs 2 and 7 of the enelosure,
and that these statements as recorded in the draft minutes
of the Commission's fifty-first meeting be transmitted
to the Supreme Commander.
The Seoretary General of the Far Eastern Commission has
requested that the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in tranemitting
the enolosed draft direotive to the Suprome Commander
for

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
the Allied Powers, inform him that in adopting the
poliey decision regarding the revimion of the Japanese
éducational system the Commission agreed that is sheald
be released to the press after being reesived by the
Supreme Commander.
Therefore, in accordanee wdth
mormal procedure, acknowledgment of the receipt of the
directive is requested.
J. H. HILLDRING
eag
J. E. Hilldring
Assistant Secretary
Enolosures:
1. Draft Direotive
2. Excerpt from Minutes.
A true copy of
the signed crig-
amw
NA: ALDunning:mho
3-28-47

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.98)
BESTRIGTED
KNCLOSURE1
DRAFT DIRECTIVE REGARDING THE REVISION
OF THE JAPANRSE EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM
The following direstive, prepared by the State Depart-
ment to implement the poliey adopted by the Far Easterm
Commission on Maroh 27, 1947, under the provisioms of
paragrap II, A, 1, of its terms of referenee has besm re-
Geived from the State, War and Havy Departments for traas-
mission to you for your guidance in accordance with pare-
graph III, I, of those terms of referenee:
Guiding Principles and Objeotives.
1. Education should be looked upon as the pursuit of
truth, as a preparation for life in a demooratie mation,
and as a training for the social and political reponmibili-
ties whioh freedom entails. Emphasis should be plaeed om
the dignity and worth of the individual, on independent
thought and initiative, and on developing a spirit of in-
quiry. The inter-dependent character of internatiomal life
should be stressed. The spirit of justice, fair play, and
respeet for the rights of others, particularly mimorities,
and the necessity for friendship based upon mutual respeet
for people of all races and religions, should be emphasized.
Speeial emphasis should also be placed on the teacking of
the sanetity of the pledged word in all human relations,
whether between individuals or nations. Measures should
be taken as rapidly as possible to achieve equality of
educational opportunity for all regardless of sex or social
position. The revisfon of the Japanese educational system
should in large measure be undertaken by the Japanese
themselves and steps should be taken to carry out sueh re-
vision in accordance with the principles and objeetives
set forth in this paper.
Traiaing, Reoruitment, and Conditions of
Service of Teachers
2. Those teachers and other educational offioials whose
record shows them to have been pronounoed exponents of
ultra-nationalistic, militaristic, or totalitarian ideas,
should be forbidden to teaon or engage in other employment
onneeted with education.
3. Short

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.97)
-2
BERTRICTED
teachers should be opened, so far as possible, im
to train them in democratie ideas.
4. The development of modern teahaiques of temskis
for teachers to become acquainted with these teshmigus
In this connection, regard should be had to the valme et
affording teachers opportuaities of transferring fremme
institution to another.
5. As a corrective to the regimented and limiting
vide teachers with aims and teehniques in harmomy with
the objectives of the occupation, special emphesis should
be placed upon the reorganization of normal sshoels am
the establishment of teachers training institutes stafred
with the most competent instruotors available for imsul-
cating democratio principles. Endeavors should be made te
increase the proportion of teaohers who have hed a uai-
versity training.
6. The teaching profession should be recogmised as
of vital importance to the future welfare and demeeratis
development of the nation, and its economie status should
be improved to a degree commensurate with this impertanse.
Consideration should be given to the establishment of salary
seales affording all teachers a reasonable standard of
living aceording to their abilities, qualifications, and
responsibilities without the necessity of supplementing
their income from sutside souroes. A basie living wags
should be guaranteed for all teachers, with inereases sscerd-
ing to their qualifications.
Textbooks, Curricula and Teaching Methods.
7. Teaching of ultra-nationalism, state Shintoim,
veneration of the Emperor, exaltation of the state over the
individual, and race superiority, should be eliminated from
the educat onal system.
8. Textbooks and other reading material that ontain
such ideas as those outlined above should be withdrawm from
use in sohools. New textbooks should be issued whieh give
an understanding of progressive ideas. Foreign books should
be made available, especially in central libraries, and
for teachers. These objectives ahould be given due weight
when allocations of paper supplies and imports of foreign
publioations are made.
9. Courses

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
-3-
9. Courses in social seionses, eivies, eomstite
law and governaent, current events, world affaire nd
mational cooperation should be made an iategral part
the educational system at appropriate levels of teashimg
10. Teaching of military subjeote should be tetally
Classioal sports, such as KENDO, whieh encourage the
martial spirit, should be totally abaadoned. Phyaisal
training mhould no longer be associated with the mks
KYOIkU. Greater emphasis should be plaoed on games and
other reoreational activities than on pure calisthemies
and drill. If former servicemen are smployed as drill
instruetors, or in connection with physieal traiming or
sport, they should be carefully sereened.
1l. Imperial resoripts should not be used as a basis
of instruction, study, or ceremonies in sohoels.
12. Independent thinking on the part of teaehers 
students should be encouraged.
13. Uniform minimum standards should be preseribed
for the different levels of instruotion in all the seheels
of Japan, whether public or private.
Adult Education.
14. Adult education should be promoted rapidly by the
use of all suitable facilities such as evening elasses,
university extension courses, the radio, the cinema, and
libraries.
Vocational Education.
15. Japanese youth should be provided with opportunities
for varied vocational training and guidance and appropriate
organizations for this purpose.
Educational Adninistration and Finance.
16. The Japanese Government should seek adviee from
representatives of all walks of life either through a non-
official advisory couneil or otherwise.
17. The

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.98)
BESTRICTED
17. The Japanese Government should exereise smsh
control over the education syatem as will ensure the
ashievement of the objeetives of the ocsupation, partieu-
larly the reforms called for by this poliey decimien.
Subjeet to the foregoing, and to maint enance of stamdards
presoribed by the Government, the responsibility for the
local administration of educational establishments should
in due time be decentralized. Japanese parents and eiti-
zeas should be enoouraged to feel a sense of individual
responsibility for the mehievements of the objeetives
set out in paragraph l. Where praoticable they should be
associated with the control, development, and work of the
sohools and other educational institutions.
18. The plans enumerated in this paper should be
closely correlated with the reforms in the social, eeomomie
and political life of the nation. In the implementation
of the educational policies outlined above, funds should
be allocated for all essential educational reform commen-
surate with the needs and resources of the nation.
19. In order that educational standards in poer dis-
triots should not be lowered by the inability of some
local bodies to provide sufficient finance from local reve-
nue, finance for education should come for the most part
from the national government, which should be respoasible
for the maintenance of an adequate level of education
throughout Japan. Local and private bodies should be
encouraged to supplement these funds provided by the mational
governnent.
General.
20. Free and compulsory education should bo provided
for all Japanese children for a minimum period of mix years
and should be extended to higher age groups as rapidly as
possible.
21. More opportunities should be provided for higher
education.
22. Equal opportunity for both sexes should be pro-
vided at all levels of education-- primary, secondary, and
tertiary.
23. Encouragement should be given to the formation
and reorientation or educational associations, parent-
teacher associations; and to assist in making the Japanese
people aware of the significant changes in the direction of
education

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.94)
RESTRICTED
-s
dueation is a demeczatib Japas, such groups should be
encouraged to consicer prectieal problems of edusation.
24. Diseriainatien against the graduates of private
sehools in civil service appointments should be elimimated,
provided the sohools in question conform to edueatienal
standards laid down for the publie educational system.
25. Eduoational institutions of foreign foundation
in Japan nave played a useful part in the past in widening
and deepening the scope of Japanese education, and should
be given egual rights to those of Japanese institutions in
future.

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.98)
EXOERPTS FROM THE MINUTES OF THE FIFTY-FARST MEETING
 THE YAR RASTERN COMMISSTON, MAHOR 27,1947
IrEm 5 - Poliey of the Revision of the Japanese
Edueational System (FRC-092/1)
Statement by the Indian Representative:
Mr. Chairman, I am grateful to you for having allowed
me this opportunity to disouss things in conference with
you and your educational adviser on the subjeet. I would
mot like to take up the time of the Commission on this
paper. I find that it is a most exesllent paper, drafted
by those who know the subjeot. They have taken all rele-
vant questions into consideration and have dealt with them
as well as they could in the ciroumstances. When I say in
the ciroumstances I mean that Japan today represents,
along with some of the others whose fate is being dealt
with elsewhere, a country and a people who unfortunately
were a little too excessive in their ambition. They were
carrying out their ambition in a form whieh had besome a
menace to the world, which menace fortunately has now been.
conquered. And now we must be very coneerned that that
menace is not revived in any shaps or form anywhere--mot
merely in Japan but elsewhere too. If the world is to
preserve peace, and if humanity is to grow along lines of
peaceful prosperity, then these tendenoies have got to be
restrained wherever they may be found. That is the objeet
behind this paper and I am entirely in agreement with it.
But there are one or two little points which have eceurred
to me after a superficial reading of this paper in the
short time I have had at my disposal, and which I have men-
tioned to the Chairman. with the help of his adviee my
doubts have been more or less satisfied for the time being.
But it is only relevant that I should mention these points
to you now so that you may also bear in mind now ay mind
1s moving.
Now, if you look at page 1, paragraph 2, the opening
sentence runs as follows: "Those teachers and other
educational officials whose record shows them to have been
pronouneed

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
pronouneed exponents of ultra-nationalistic, militaristie,
or totalitarian ideas, should be forbidden to teaeh or
engage in other employment...." Please mark the werd
"employmeat" there, "...or engage in other empleyment ess
children are being taught in schools and some of these mes
are available for supplying, shall we say, milk to the
children, whioh is possibly a connected activity, After all
we must see that the children are brought up properly, amd
we supply them with nilk. You know what the maapewer shertage
is like all over the world. Supposing these people eam be
employed in that particular activity, whieh will still be
connected with education but not education itself. I want
to know whether this will bar them. If so, I think we are
drawing rather heavily upon our resources of maapewer. That
is one doubt. I don't know whether that doubt has been som-
pletely resolved, but I do not wish that little point to
become a hindrance in the passage of this paper.
Paragraph 7, relating to textbooks, curricula, and teash-
ing methods, says: "Teaching of ultra-nationaliss, State
Shintoism....should be eliminated from the edueational
system." Now. I fsar that the expression "State Shintoism"
infringes a prinoiple, a fundamental principle, not that I
for one second desire Shintoiam to be revived anywhere in
that form, bscause, after all, militarist Shintoimm has
certainly proved a very dreadful thing as far as Japan is
concerned. I have not the slightest doubt about it and no-
body would like it to be revived in that form. But it is a
question of a people --- I am going to the fundamentals--
olaiming a teaching to be religious. Are we today samdtios-
ing that prinoiple? Are we telling anyone today that
religion in any shape or form or in any partioular form shall
not become State religion anywhere? What about Christiamity?
There are certain countries where Christianity is a State
religion. The United hingdom has a form of Christiamity as a
State religion. Later on you may find it diffieult, after
having laid down a law or prinoiple like this, you may find
it difrioult to defend it. I am only warning you. That is
about all. It is quite possible that somebody may come up
afterwards and say no religion shall ever be taught aaywhere
as a State religion. Personally I may be qui te prepared to
subsoribe to it because religion and State sholld never be
confused. It is a wrong thing to do. But it is a point for
you to consider. It is easy for us to lay down certain rules
and fundamentals in a hurry and then find later on that they
become halters around our necks. This is a doubt which I
have expressed.
Statoment

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.97)
Statement by the Australian Representative:
Japanese educational systen is to be deseatralised. It has
will have the greatest possible degree of dissretiem in
determining what is most suitable in the light of surremt
ciroumstances. The Australian Government fully agrees wish
this, and has complete confidence in General Maearthur.
However, the Australian Government would like to stete fermal-
ly its more detailed views, and to ask that these be semt
to General MaoArthur for his guidance in the degree asd
timing of decentralization, the Supreme Commander of courss
retaining full disoretion as to the extent to whieh he
follows these lines.
It is believed that comprehensive educational refomm
is likely to be most effectively handled by a centralised
Government department. Therefore decentralization of ad-
finance, appointment of teachers, conditions for teashers,
provision of buildings, planning of educational standards,
and the over-all conduct and planning of researeh pregrammes.
However, the oarrying cut of details of administratiem shoul
be decentralized. This decentralization might be acsomplisked
most effectively by placing local administration of edusation
under distriot superintendents of education, appeinted by the
Japanese Government, who should be educationalists of stand-
ing. It is believed that the schools and teachers should
not be under the control of the prefeotural administratioas.
In determining curricula, a central authority should make
gemeral suggestions for all subjects and should speeify re-
quirements of standards; however, within those limits, de-
centralization should ocour, and is recommended particularly
for sooial studies, biological soienees and vocational sub-
jeots in which local conditions mhould play an importaat rele.
It is not considered that the Japanese people, mrtioular-
ly in rural and remote areas, are yet fitted to undertake
the responsibility of local supervision of education through
educational committees or boards elected under local framehise.
Nor is it considered that the teaching body as a whele is
fitted to accept immediately the freedoms in determining
ourricula and teaching methods implied in a deceatralised
system. The process of decentralizetion should take place
gradually over a period of some years and should keep pace
with the progress of development of democratie thought among
teaohers and parents.
Any

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.97)
Any sudden change-over from central control to eem-
plete decentralization might result in chaos, in siving
toe great control in remote distriets to reactionary and
igmorant elements of the population, and in naking dirri-
oult the Supreme Conmander's supervision and iaspeetien
of educational reform.

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.95)
RESTRICTED
THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
DC/R
SWN-5300
9 Apr1l 1947
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
(Attention: Mr. J. K. Penfield - FE)
Subjeot: Directive Transmitted to SCAP by
the Joint Chiefs of Staff
Enclosed are three copies of Directive, Serial
894.42/4-947
No. 74, tranamitted to SCAP by the Joint Chiefs of
Staff. Copy No. 1 is for transmittal to the Far
Eastern Commission and Copies 2 and 3 are for the
files of the State Department.
For the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee:
N.W. Moelly
H. W. MOSELEY,
Secretary
Enclosures:
Copy Nos. 1, 2 and 3,
Serial No. 74
FEC
894.42
ain
Jib
DOK F Unit
/4-947
ana
Re
Cat.
RESTRICTED
Dist.

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.94)
COPY
RESTRICTED
5 Apr11 197
Serial No. 74
DIRECTIVE TO THE SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWBRS
REVISION OF THE JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM
The fullowine directive, serial number 74, preparod by
the Stote Department t. implument the policy adopted by the Far
Eastern C mmission n March 27, 1947, under the provisions of
paragraph II, A, I, f its terms f.reference has been received
from the State, Wr uan? Nave Deortments for transmission to
you fr y ur culdnce in  ecerdance with paragraph III, 1, of
those tomis ef reforence:
"Cuiding Princijles and Objcctives.
"i. Educatien sheuld be I ked upen as the pursuit of
truth, as  proprati on fer life in a domocratic nation,
and us  training for the social and political responsi-
bilities wilich froed  enteils. Emphesis should be placed
on the limity nd werth f the individual, en indopendent
thou ht end initiative, and on dovoloping a spirit of in-
quiry. The intor-lepondunt character of intornational life
sh uld bo stressed. The si irit  f justice, fair play, and
respuct for the ri its f thers, particulurly minorities,
and the necessity for friendshily based upon mutual respect
for  p le of ull races nd reliclons, should be omphasized.

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.90)
RESTRICTED
Speciel umphasis should also be placed on the teaching of
the sonctity of the ledged word in ull human relations,
whother between individuals r nations. Measures should 
taken s re, ldly as possiblo to achieve equality of educa-
tionel il rtunity fr all regeruless of sex or social
positi n. The revision cr the Jipnese educational system
shouli in lurite mu sur be undert ken by the Japanese them-
sulves nd tups sh uld.be taken to carry cut such revision
in eeordance witi th yrinelples and objectives set forth
in this Prol.
"Treinin, Recruitment, and Conditions of Service of
To:0l. 22
"2. T so tuuchers und ther uducetional officials whose
rec ra sh ws ther to heve boe.  rencunced exponents of ultra-
nat listic, milituristic, ur t talitarian idoas, should
be P poabon te to ch r neage in other umployment con-
neetoi with  duentiun.
"3. C. rt r fresher courses und vacution schools for
teachere shoule be  uned, se fur as possible, in order to
trein them in doveratic idees.
"4. T develoment f ma dern techniques of teaching
shoull be ure ural nd pportunlty sh uld be provided fer
teach rs t. be c me sequsintel with thes, tochniques. In
this c moeti n, r rd sh ulu be hed to the value of afford-
ing to ehors  rtunities f transforrinp from one insti-
tuti r. t uther.
". As  currective t the repimented and limited nature
of io l schel trinine in th pst, and to provide
to sch rs with aims und techniques in harmony with the
objectives (f the ccupatlon, specinl emphasis should be
Ilaced upen the reorgnization of nermal schools and tho
ustablishrent of teachors training institutes staffed with
the most c petent instructors availablo for inculcating
democratic principlos. Endeavors should be made to inore

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.91)
RESTRICTED
Special omphasis should also be placed on the teachin
the sanctity of the plodged word in all human relation
whother botween individuals cr nations. Measures should
takcn as rapidly as possible to achieve equality of educa-
tionel eppcrtunity fer all regardless of sex or social
position. The revision or the Jupicse educational system
should in large meusur. be undcrt ken by the Japanese them-
sulves nd tuns sh uld be taken to carry cut such revision
In aceordance witi the principles ant objoctives set forth
in this Ptper.
"Treinin, Recruitment, and Cunditiens of Service of
Tooh 2o
"2. Tis se teechers uni ther clucetional officials whose
rec rd sl ws the to have boa preneunced cxpenents of ultra-
nat listic, militaristic, ur t talitarian idoas, should
be f rbiaden te toch ur ongage in other employment con-
neetel with ducatien.
"3. Sh rt r fresher ccurses und vacatien schools for
tocchere sh uld be  uned, se far us possible, in order to
trein thom in domucratic idees.
"4. Ti develoment f m dorn techniques of teaching
shoull be une uraarel und pportunlty sh uld be yrovided for
teachors t. become tcqusintel with. thes. techniques. In
this c meeti n, ro ard sh uld be hed to the value of afford-
inc to ehers pi rtunities  f transforrinp from one insti-
tuti v. t. n thor.
". As  currective t the ropimented and linited nature
f n al schel truinine in th pst, and to previde
to cha rs with aims und techniques in hermony with the
(bjeetivee (f the ccupeti n, speciel onphasis sheuld be
Ilaced upn the reorgntzation op nermal schools and the
cstablishnent of teachers training Institutes staffed with
the most cenpetent instructors availablo for inculcating
demoer.tic principlos. Endeavors sheuld be made to increaso
the propertion of toachors who have had a university training
- 2 -

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.90)
RESTRICTED
"6. The teoching profession should bo recognised
vital importance to tho futuro welfaro und democratio 
ment of the nat lon, nd its economic status should be ipr
to
decrec connensur te with this aportonce. Considerati
should po given to the ustablishment of salary scales afford
ing ell tenchers  reason ble st andard of living according
to the ir  pilit is, qualific ttons, and rosponsibilities
without the necessity or supplononting thoir incomo from out
de sourcas. A bsle livin we should be guarantood for
ll t chor, with increnses ccording to thoir qualifications
"Toxttouks, Cwr ie 1 nd Toachine Methods
"7. Teaching o ultra-nationalism, state Shintoism,
venci tion f the Euperor, ex :Itation of the state over the
indiy c1 nd pace superlorit, should be climinated from
the ce t 1onel 3.
". Toxtoecks und other roadin: materiul that contain
such ide  the tlin bove should be withdrawn from
use in schools. Ncw loxtosoks shoule be issued which give an
underut ndiny or pr ossive deas. Fore Ign books should bo
nede av llebl, cupecinlly n central librerios, and for
teachers. Those  pjectives should bo liven due weight when
all cat 'uns uf poper suppltes und inports of foreign publi-
cot: up.de.
"o. Coursc: in social selonce, civies, constitutional
low nd povernent, curvent cvents, world afrairs and intor-
nnt tonel cooper tion should ne mrde n integral part of the
educet! n 1 syutem at ppropr late levels of toaching.
"lo. Te ching:  milttary subjects should be totally for-
biden In nll uucntionel institutlons. The woering by
studonts of mil!tury-utyle uniforms should be forbiddon.
Classicel sports, such us kendo, which oncourage tho martial
spirit, should be totally bundoned. Physical troining ahould
no longer bo associatod with the seiahin

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.86)
RESTRICTED
omphasis should be placed on gomes and other recreationa
ctivities than on pure calisthenies and drill. If form
servicemon are emplo: ed as drill instructors, or in conneot
with physical tr ining or sport, they should be carefully
sercened.
"1l. Iuperll peueript should nut be used as a basts
nstruetlen, study, r coremonios in schools.
"12. Inde pondent thinkine on the purt of tenchors and
stradents should bo creoureted.
"13. untrorm mtum  nd de sh la be proseribed
cor the dir orent lovele staict on i 1l the schools
s Jrpom, whother potl e  priy to.
"Adul: Educot:n
"1. Aanlt uduc tion uhoald e prom ted rupidly by tho
uso ur ll suit ble cilit les such s ovening classes,
usiv psity extonston csurses, the rediu, the cinoma, and
"V.c stonal Educs' jon
"1. J ponese uth hould be r vided with opportunitios
Po v ried vocetis1 t in' und guidance and appropriate
orey nisto or this pep
"Eduentional Aumin:utrtian und Finance
"I.. Th Jrp neso G. verla nt choulu soek advice from
uput ves 1l wls rle ther through a non-
Pciel viser coune:l r th rwis.
"1/. Th Jepamose G. vurraaent shoulo exere ise such control
von th duetton stum s will unsune the achievonent of
the bj etives  l uccupation, particularly the reforms
callou  b. thts p.l e, declsion. Subject to the forogoing
and to meintenance of tandurds preseribed by the covornmont,
the rosponsibility for the luc:l administration of educational
estaulishaents should in due tine be decentralized. Japaneso

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.88)
RESTRICTED
parents and citizons should be oncouragod to foel a on
individual responsibility for the achiovemonts of tho obj
tives set sut in paragraph 1. Where practicable they should
be assoclated with the centrol, devolopment, and work of the
schools nd other cducation.l inetitutions.
"1e. The plans cnumermted in this paper should be closoly
correlated with the ruforms in the social, cconomic and
politic 1 l:re of the nition. In the implomentation of the
oduc: tiunel pol:cics outlined above, funds should be allocated
For ll cssontll auc tton 1 reform commensuratoe with the
w ds und rosourcos of the nton.
"19. In. crder th.t  auc tional standards in poor districts
should nt be lowored b. the Inabillty, of some lucal bodies
to provide surficlent Finance Fro local revenue, finance for
cducation should com. for the most part fron tho National
Governm nt, which sheulu bo pospensible for the maintonanco
of n adequste luvel of uduc tlon throughout Japun. Local
no privote o ds shula be cicomaged to supplomont these
Punds pr vidod be uhe S tienel G vorrment.
"Gurucr1
"20. Fr o nd compulooer duc tten should be provided for
1l Japanone children  mintmn peted r 6 yoars and
should be uxt nded to hirehe o moupe s papidly as
1.11b1..
"21. More opportunitiee sh uld be provided for higher
11iC11.11.
"22. Eque1 oppertunit. Po. both sexes should be provided
t all levels of oducation--primary, secondary, and tostiary.
"23. Encouragoment should be given to the formation and
reorientatlon ol cducational ussociations, peront-toacher
ausoci tlons; und to assist in naking the Japanose pooplo
ware of the significunt changes in the diroction of education

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.93)
RESTRICTED
in a domocratic Japan, such groups should bo enoouraged
consider practical problons of cducation.
"24. Discrimination aguinst the graduatos of privato.
schools in Civil Sorvicc appointments should bo eliminated.
provided the uchoels in question conform to oducational
standards laid down for the public cducattonal systom.
"25. Education l institutions or foreign foundation in
J'pan hive pl. ?  uscful part in the prst in widening and
deupenine the uc p  Jpm se cducation, nd should bo
ven uqual h th  Jnes natitutions in the
:utur."

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.96)
APR 1
In reply refer to
MA 894.42/4-947
RESTRIOTED
MEMORANDUN FOR THE SEORETARY GENERAL
FAR FASTERN COMMISSION
894.42/4-947
In aocordance with instruetlons of April 9, 1947,
from the State-War-Havy Coordinating Committes, there
ls enclosed a certified copy of a direative, Serial
No. 74, to the Supreme Commander for the All1ed Powers
regarding Revislon of the Japanese Educational System,
to be filed with the Far Eastern Comm1msion under the
provislons of paragraph III, 4, of ite Terms of
Heferenoe.
CC/A
For J. H. Hilldring
Assletant Seoretary
894.42
Enclosure:
Copy No. 1 (oertified)or
Direotive to the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers,
Berial No. 74.
14-947
RESTRICTED
10

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.82)
D REAS DVISION
410
JUL 171947
The Wheeler House
Cano'd. 7/18/40
Castine, Maine
5 July 1947
DIVISION OF
ORTHEAST ASIAN
Direcron
Office of Pp Eastern affaire
122
Dart er tte
DEPARTMEN
ir
4.42/7-547
I  tr taff,  S
an a   est  r oreusor-lseu at Jolumbia University
u low    o process or preparing
 o e lmal rcole or rot-war Japan for
  lo naversity Prece. I was refused
 n to finish this study
i  surricient
e re uired for me
Itrto fnisnthe
teeo siul channels.
ni  copy of
 " (ul  o r) rublication
. 17. rore I close the
 lsmer I em anxious to
V
i E lse o vs rollowing
1.
lew  l tloa ou Polioy and
n lied following
 ced on  January
V
)
u.
一)
wal sept
io of
11947
. u or  ie olie on aucution prepared
(  147)
894.42/
 ision
Nt
 oorl oill elo. f ls is
lll l  ir tou un mot gt orcicially auopted
1
to t effeet.
 Co pi  or th eauolomal ovi lone of the two
 lreutivee  1 n the sumer of 1945
for ilit y oeeu mtion or Jupan in tne event of
Lomer  co testeu or unconte t a laniing. If these
No
tien barrine airect wuot tlon will you please
o auvise e?

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.85)
Office of Far Eastern Affairs
Department or State
Page 2
FEC
6. an orricial copy or the final draft of the
con=3
new Constitution of Japan. The draft given
in Publie uion o. 2671 is identical with
one last aruft I ot before I left Tokyo
Lut it le pus ible une re may have been
chan es.
I ms  tume you will not coneluer a emark that I am
  toth ut an interested and friendly
cpisiel m. mut in vne la t o tne extremely critical
ste ton  i ooud on all anerican documents
oei n Lo ao  i  I felu that you should
   in  nu er os pl ees uhe eaitin of Publication
. sa. I wee in  position in Japan
0
v  to ll se aoeumn wnich were pertinent
 lu,  n f e wrote several wmen are in this
ok. I  ve e ee   ar rt loh t.e ubllshed record
 tepu liction includes
seval  o  te l eprose, epos in Japanese, errors
,  in an least one place the
 or  ri inal airective, without
mitte Fot matel in tms
 l il ut any slip of
v to so  forein chrg
ni o se i  lully ulin aoctored
ly yours,
Koaur Kh; Wace
RO.KIR HaLL

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.98)
Fors DS-10
Department of
7/14/
Date
6-1=45
State
REFERENCE SLIP
To:
ADO/m Selnl
Advise
Note & Return
Approve & Return
Note & File
As You Requested
Per Telephone Talk
Attention
Previous Correspon.
Attach File
Priority Action
Comment & Return
Reconsider
Consider
Recommond Action
Copying
Record
Correct
Reply
File
Return to Sender
Follow-up
Rewrite
Ho1d
Signature Required
Initials Needed
See Me
Investigate & Report
Take Action
Instruct
Transfer
Justify
Type
Keep Me Advised
Verify
Legal Matter
Reply for Signature of
Memo Required
Not Interested
Note & Destroy
Note & Forward
REMARKS:
The questios fall
th
From
NA/HBorton
This Form Rtinted on Salvaged Stock

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.89)
HB
Phane hone
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
seianmndate
1947
JUI
hr n
2

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.94)
CIVIL INFORMATION AND EDUCATION SECTION
G.H.Q.. S.C.A.P.
APO 500, c/o Postmaster
San Francisco, California
Tokyo, Japan
6 August 1947
Mr. Kenneth Holland
Assistant Director
Office of International Information
and Cultural Affairs
D
Department of State
Washington 25, D. C.
Dear Mr. Holland:
Thank you for you letter of July 9 with the enclosed
communication from Lady Butterfield and the essay on
Atomic Energy and World Peace. As you know, the effects
of Atomic Energy are far too recent and impressive in
the minds of the Jepanese people for us to need to give
any emphasis to this subject. As a matter of fact, we are
trying to re-build Japan in terms of the Constitution
Promulgated in May, which outlaws war for the Japanese
people for all times.
We are making some progress in the development of
education in Japan, tut are confronted with serious
shortages of teechers, buildings, books and instructional
materials which make the work exceedingly difficult.
With all good personel wishes, I am
Very cordially yours,
RWelen Hefferna
FILED
Helen Heffernan
2.3
Elementary Schools Officer
3
89
3
HH:cs
NE
REIVED
AAUG 14 17

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.92)
#C/
STATE
ADVISER
FO
DVOF
NOV4121947
October 7, 1947
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
UNCLASSTEI
A
No. 1316
 AON
LUBJ CT:
Transmittal of a Report Concerning Teachers
and Teaching Nethods.
894.42/10-747
The Counselor of Iission has the honor to forward
five copies of a report dated March 12, 1947 concern-
ing teachers and teaching methods, prepared by the
Civil Information und ducation Section of this Head-
quarters.
FE
OIE
Enclosure
A.S
Five copies of a Gh, SCaP,
report, Teachers and Yeaching
Methods, March 12, 1947.
DclR
Original and ozalid to Department.
020
1947 OCT 17 PM 12 17
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RIBushner:mm
RECEIVED
DC/L
88
CS/V
EED
894.
DEC 31 1947
5
FILED
An
/10-747
1w

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.99)
GENFRAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLTED POWERS
Civil Information and Education Section
Media Analysis Division
No:94
PUBLICATIONS ANALYSIS, 12 March 1947
Teachers and Teaching Methods
There seems to be no more enthusiastic group of Japanese
writers than those who appear in educational megazines or dis-
cuss educational subjects in other publications. Most of these
writers are themselves teachers or educt tional officials. Articles
on the general subject of education are noteworthy, for they show
considerable comprehension of the resnonsibility of the schools in
creating a democratic nation. In the more detailed writing, teach-
ers seem inclined to discuss their particular fields -- especially
their own theories, methods and projects -- in a way which indicates
considerable individual thinking and enthusiasm. Because of the
abundance of material dealing with the field of education, it has
seemed advisable to limit this report to the subject of teaching
and teaching methods and to matters which are closely allied.
A Chiba primary school director, Kanzo Komura, declares in
the educationel journal KOKUMIN KYOIKU (Kogakunen), that "Educa-
tion Must Roconstruct Japan." The Japanese must "set a far-
sighted policy in the present chaotic oircumstances. This must
be based on experience and actual pructice as well as on science
and philosophy. * * * Our education, having been set free from
its wartime status, must be reappraised from the viewpoint of world
civilization. We must establish a reliance upon historic facts and
. we must find the spirit with which to develop individuality
and create a refined people capable of making their contribution
to humanity."
The Japanese educational world "at present needs most the
spirit of independence and freedom from narrow-mindedness," Takeshi
Koide, a primary school principal, states in KOKUMIN KYOIku(Tei-
gakunen). The lack of a spirit of independence is manifested in
many ways at the present time, and is the result of the years of
oppression; but henceforth the Japanese must cease casting recrimi-
nations and must be anxious to join with other nations in contri-
buting to world civilization. To illustrate thc new outlook
which he feels should be purveyed through the schools, Koide as-
serts that the Pacific Ocean should serve to join Japan with the
rest of the world, rather than to keep it secluded.
Advice to the younger generation is offered by Professor Kenko
Kimura of Tokyo Imperial University,in SEkAI. Establishment of a
democratic system is not al that is required, he writes. "If
people know only how to submit, and do not know how to think and
act on their own volition, a democratic system will turn out to
be worse than useless." What is most important, declares Kimura
and what must be achieved through education, is "the spirit of
independence-the ability to act on one's own initiative without
compulsion from outside and with the spirit of self-responsibility."
In a NIPPON KYOIKU article on "The Constitution and Education,"
Toshiki Sano, president of The Japan Educational Association, des-
cribes the Preamble as a practical expression of democratic poli-
tics, and avers that promulgation of a sense of the social res-
ponsibility of the individual citizen is one of the foremost tasks
of Japanese teachers. This must be spread not only in the class

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.99)
room but through the daily school and social lire of
Much educational effort must be exerted, Sano feelsy o
democracy can be displayed by the Japanese.
TheBtudents
A dialogue between the previously quoted Kenko Kimur
Masao Maruyama of the law department of Tokyo Imperinl Umt
appears in BUNGEI SHUNJU. Both men agree that older studo
have generally become reflective, and that in many cases
has led them to be skeptical. Feeling thet they have been
once, they ere overly preccutious lest this happen agains
are becoming experimental," says Maruyama. "They must seo an
hear things for themselves beforo they will believe. Many
while, Maruyama feels, for it enables them to combine theory  
actual practical experience. Women college-students, he believes
are more idealistic than the mor -- they do not associate the mub
jects of their classroom studies with their daily lives. Young
men of rurel areas, who are not students, sre less skeptical and
more self-confident than their city brothers, according to Kimure
and they often participate actively in village affairs. But they
behave without a guiding aim or objoctive and, though they read
desultorily, they lack unified knowlcdge.
Further ideas on this subject are presented in TAIHEI by
Naotaro Oki, a Meiji University professor. Students appear just
about the same as they did one year ago, this writer finds, but
judging from the letters they write to neriodicals, their spirits
and ideas must have changed. Last April, Oki declares, when
students arrived for entrance examinations, they seemed to have
a war-born feeling of inferiority; thcy had lost their independence
of mind and initiative. The spirit vhich had been utilized to
uphold the militarists had become shameful with the close of the
war. But now Oki finds himself surprised by the sharp and strong
statements of opinion written by students to publications, and
he thinks that these must especially estonish trose teachers who
beat their charges into a state of submission in wartimo. Oki
is glad that students are being givon the opportunity for self-
government and self expression guided into proper channels.
Teaching Methods and Media
In ASAHI HYORON Teiyu Amano, director of tho Tirst Higher
School, surveys the educational ficld, and points out certain
shortcomings of the old syst ns: (1) education had no independence
and was under the continued sway of the politicians and the
militarists; (2) the formality of oducation wes considered more
important than tho subject matter and the effects of the teaching;
(3) it was felt that the object of education was simply to pre-
pare one for worldly success; (4) it was commonly believed that
the studicus attitude should be dropped upon graduation from school
or college, rather than that cducation should furnish the found-
ation upon which one could continue to study and build further
knowledge; (5) it was difficult for students to tronsfer from
one school to another, and the differences between government and
private schools were such that boys were discouragcd from attend-
ing private institutions. Amano urges that education be given
its independence - with the management of educational metters left
entirely in the hands of educators, that prefectural schools be
freed from central control, and that the authority of the direct-
ors and principals of cach school or college be extended He
would standardize all education through the middle school years
(he advocates a six year primary school course and four years of
middle school) with a general proparatory course from which 
students could embark casily upon a more specialized higher edu-
cation.

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.99)
A comprehensive article by Shuhei Ishiyama empl
cussion method (to be applied in Jananese schools) to
readers, end seys that this is one of the favored nethode
democratic education. Ishiyama declares that classroom d
aid in the formation of independent, responsible charaoter
demand originality in thinking and expression. The practioe
builds good social habits by causing children to listen to the
opinions of others and either agree or disagree, while frankly
expressing their own opinions. - The most suitablc subject matte
is that which is closely related in some way to tho lives of the
nupils and yet upon which a reasoneble difference of opinion can
be expected. The determination of facts is held to be less 1m-
portant than the exercising of judgment in carrying on the dis-
cussien. Next, Ishiyama gives rules for successful discussion,
and says it is dosirable to give the students access (through
magazines, bocks end nowsnaners) to inf rmation on the subject to
be discussed. Seats should b arrenged sc that all participants
can see one cnother, and tho chairmen should be able to look over
the entire groun. The chairmon should be selected by the students
themselvesrthe chairmanship rotated within the group; but in some
cases it is necessary for the teacher to preside. The tencher
should make the children fully sware of the exact point of the dis-
cussion, and
they should follow its progress closely in
their own minds. Trerefore the room must be kent quiet end the
discussion must be kent from lagging. The exnression of opinion
must present sccuretely the true beliefs of the speaker and, at
the sane time, be intelligible to all the participants; and the
children must listen respectfully to each sneaker, honoring
opposition or minority oninions. The nerticinants must feel that
they are taking part in & joint onterprise, and they must guide
themselves by reason. Finally, Ishiyama writes, the discussion
must be brought to a cloar conclusion, with a sumning un, so
that the children will know what has been decided by the majority
and what points arc left unsottled.
"Asking questions is one of the most important means of
learning," asserts Shigeichi Douchi in KOKUMIN KYOIKU(Chugakunen),
introducing a treatise on the value of questions and how they
should be hanaled by teachers. To his mind, questions show two
things: either that the student has not read or understocd his
lesson, or that he sctively and energetically seeks to learn more
than his lesson gives him. As the students' interest increases,
more questions are asked. Teachers can find in the questions of
their students en index of how thoroughly their instruction has
been comprehended. When the nswer to a question is not imnediate-
ly available, Douchi ennhasizes that the teacher should make a
noint of consulting suitable sources to find the desircd infor-
mation.
The methods of democratizing classroom procedure employed
by eight primary schools in different narts of Janan are present-
ed in a KOKUMIN KYOIKU (Teigakunen) survey in which each school
gives its own answer to the question nut to all. The Hokuto nrima-
ry school in Nemuro District, Hokkrid, seeks "the cultivation
of the attitude of spontaneous study" through "resrect for indivi-
duality" and by "encouraging the pupils to question the teachers."
In addition, "school administration is based on class self-govern-
ing bodies and we try to encourage their activity." The Kita
Primary School in Kiriu "provides pupils with the opnortunity to
exnress their opinions and to discuss the school administration,
and enc urages questions." Class officers are elccted, not anpoint-
ed, and teachers have adonted an "understanding" attitude.
Among the accomplishments of the Kamona Primary School,
Tokuyana City, are the "readjusting of formal classroom manners."
and the "adontion of teaching nethods which involve more individual
guidance and individual study, rather than the teaching of the
ontire groun together." The nrimary division of the Oita Normal

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.98)
School resnonds that "the teachers are trying to study an
themselves along with the pupils, and are giving up thetr
perative attitude. * * * We provide class libreries for th
students' own study. We try to avoid dry treatment of sub
and to provide enough materials to make the subjects come 
life." The Fukui Primary School statement reads, in parts
Friday the tencher draws up a teaching plan for the following
week, consults with the nupils, and posts it in the classroom,
making advance prenarations both with material and in mind.
On Saturday the pupils express their wishes and ideas through
meeting of their orgenization. * * * We crganize each class a
a social unit, selecting the monitor, the vice-monitor and vario
other nositions, and divide the class into several smaller group
We arrange tho desks so that it is convenient for the children
to engago in mutual study, common research, and discussion."
A KOKUMIN KYOIKU (Kogakunen) crticle by Shuhaku Kondo gives
the views of an ther writer on methods of encouraging and conduot
ing individual solf-study en? research for younger students. Kondo
is the director of the clemontary school attached to the Tokyo
Third Normal School. The afternoon is thought to be bhe best
time for self-study, an? in Kondo's school the advanced classes
are dissolved from one until two for individual research and study
With this procedure "the pupils cen apply thenselves to study in
a settled frame of mind." any subject will do, though Kondo
favors science; but both choice of subject and the nlan of study
should be carried ut by the student. By giving exhibitions and
exnositions and by creating a symnathetic atmosnhere, the teacher
should neourage those who cannot select their own subjects. While
the results of this individual study will show in the regular
schoolwork, it is desireble tc afford some oprortunity for publi-
cation and'for recognition of the nupil's accom-lishment through
class meetings and exhibitions. This, Kondo finds, "will give
the students fresh topics and an active life."
An article on ciucational broadcasting is published in KokumIN
KYOIkU (Chugakunen) by Masao Yamashita. Tho smsll amount of
educational broadccsting since the termination of the war has not
been the result of disinterest, but was caused by the nation wide
shortage of receiving sots for school use. Nor that the schools
are better sunrlicd, more ennhasis is being siven to the presenta-
tion of educational programs by radio during the school hours.
Last year's temporery interin programs, Yamashita cxulains, were
concerned with the principal sims: (1) to stress individual dignity
(2) to cultivate a questioning attitude; (3) to create a cheerful
atmosnhere: en? (4) t teach simnle Enplish words. For the present
school tcrm, a more comprohonsive rogram has b an worked out and
rut into oreration. One pr gran aims at familiurizing younger chil
ren with natural phenomena and subjects connected with daily life
olectricity, water, radio, houses, the nress, mail, etc. another
program takes the listener by train on main rail lines through
Janan, teaching the history  the railroads, their oneration, and
their influence. Current events, discussions, and programs featur-
ing children's activities constitute cncther vortion; while in the
field of litcrature the Broadcasting Corporation offers fairy
tales of many nations, and drama based on civics courses, on science
and mathematics, and on music annreciation and the national language
Children should not be com elled to listen to the radio, Yamashita
says, but their interest can and should be guided in that direction
With the Broadcasting Corporation and the Education Ministry work-
ing together to present good educational programs, Yamashita urgos
the cooreration of all teachers to make the project a success.
A roundtable on the education of sunerior and backward child
rcn brings three educators and a doctor to meet with Kenichi Orawe
editor of NIPPON KYOIKU. Ozawa states that "Jananese education 

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.99)
the future mus't advance along the lines of democracy, and o
the principles of democratic education is full recognition or
dividuality and individual variations." Yoshizo Nogawa, a Na
School instructor, admits that "the present system impedes ther
progress of superior children, and it is desirable to  organis
classes according to the ability of the pupil, or to form unita
within the class according to these abilities." The need fcr eduo
ing backward children "specially and individually," Dr.Tsuned
Murematsu considers "beyond question. * * * But as regards srecial
education for the sunerior child, we have entertained many doubts
over the possibility of success under the present educational sys
tem. It is feared that this may exert a bad influence upon the
development of the nerson:lity." Dealing with superior children,
Yukio Togawa says, "It is thought to be a good idea to relieve child
ren of comnlexes by awakening their special talents and by decid-
ing scientifically which abilities should be cultivated at an early
age." In his school, continues Togawa, "Pupils above the fourth
year are allowed frec time during the afternoon to study natural
science, take group tours, and see whatever nerformances are availa-
ble." In this field of education, Ozawa cautions, "society must
cooperate with the school." In dealing with backward children, he
declares leter, "care must be taken not to create an inferiority
comnlex." The contents or subject matter of their education should
be specially adarted, says Togawe, and the tencher "should manage
to make them understand intuitionally what they cannot understand
through reason." Furthernore, Ozawa adds, "in this srecial educa-
tion it is innortant to get the right teacher; and he should be
paid well."
Textbooks
The Jananese have rolied too heavily on textbooks, Muneomi.
Kaigo of Tokyo Inperial University ncintains in NIPPON KYOIKU.
"Once the character of textbooks was established, a tradition deve-
loned, and revision has been lifficult," he declares. "The charact-
er of textbooks has a 'close relationship with the prevailing edu-
cational methods." In Jananese education, the method of teaching
always has considered the convenience of the teachers, not the
students. What the teachers nresented was strictly limited to what
was found in the book, and this the students learned by heart,
"neglecting not one word from start to finish." Now the approach
must be radically changed, Kaigo writes, and Janan must have "not
books for teaching, but books for learning." Workbooks and books
for self-study are pronosed by the writer, who exnlains that such
books would have passages of descrintion, followed by questions,
and that answering these questions should occupy much of the
student's study cffort.
The writer then divides the educational process into three
stages. In the first the student acquires the neans for master-
ing the contents of the second stage; in the second he learns such
subjects as civics, geograrhy, history, etc.; and in the third he
anplies his knowledge to living materials. In the first stage text-
books are necessary and the teacher's work should be closely related
to these broks. In the second stage, the student should use text-
books designed for self-study -- "textbooks for learning, not teach-
ing"; and in the third, "liberal study through living subjects" in-
volves the use of materials and as many reference books as are avail
able. Kaigo also holds that teachers must be provided freedom to
bring their own exneriences and ideas into play and to con ile their
own material.
In KOKUMIN KYOIKU (Kogakunen), Torashiro Ozaki. of the Education
Ministry discusses the newly prepared geogranhy bonks, ointing out
that they were comniled hastily and necessarily are inconnlete.
"There are many places where teachers must teach with srecial care,

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.99)
and teaching aids, such as plobes and sketch mans, must be
as sunnlements. The content is a comnlete revision from th
and quite satisfactory, Ozaki believes. "The now books hay
political aim. Teachers must teach a fact as a fact and be.
that the books aim at world reace and international friendship
Teaching History
An article by Motokichi Kyoguchi attacks the false historioal
doctrines of Janan in BUNGEI SHUNJU. Jananese history gave up it
historical accuracy under nolitical rressure during the Meiji,
Taisho, and Showa eras; Janan and the Jananese neonle were then
made holy and heroes were worshinped. Now at last, seys Kyoguchi
the Jaranese have realized the consequences of prctending to be
descendants of gods. Now they must realize that their ancestry
goes back simnly to rimitive man, and that all their national
history must be reexanined. This history actually may be found
quite ugly. "We should not seek to bring this ugliness to light
simply for the sake of cx osing it, but in order to correct our
unreasonable self-nraise and avail'purs lves of sober-minded re-
flection, so that we may be able to construct our future very care-
fully."
Kaname Hayashi discusses the revision of the history books in
HIKaRI. The chairman of the Textbook Bureau of the Education Mini-
stry is quoted in this article as stating in the Diet that the re-
vision would (1) "abolish the propaganda of militarism, nationalism
or anti-foreign ideas; (2) commence the descrintion of history with
the Stone Age instead of with mythology; (3) stress the changing
circumstances in the living conditions of our nation, instead of
placing primary cmphasis on political history and resuect for
heroes; and (4) examine history from a world historical standnoint,
rather than fron a selfish and ultra-nationalistic view." Hayashi
finds points one and four highly satisfactory, but questions the
second and third. He would h ve the teaching of history commence
with the evolution of man from animal; he mays "some may hold that
history should bo begun with the first appearance of the amoeba."
He would broaden the third oint, which he feels does not take in
a sufficient cross-section of the life of the nation.
Certain srecific criticisms of the new history textbooks are
voiced in CHUTO KYOIKU by Seidai Fujima of the Urawa Middle School.
This writer complains chiefly of the inpersonal nethod f presen
tation end fears "that the rich quantity and com lex contents,
lacking any deen emotion or charn, will give the teachers trouble
in mastering them and make it difficult for students to memorize
great amounts." He believes that mythology should be utilized,
and objects to the com letoly scientiric way in which myths are
anproached and interrreted. Th? effect of Janan's mythology upon
the political and economic life of any period should not be dis-
regarded, he asserts - maintaining that true history does not have
to be dry. In the modern ficld,the writer says, the new text fails
to explain why the new Constitution was necessary; but he praises
the treatment of canitalistic ex loitation, the enslavement of
labor, and the difficulties of the farmer. He finds no unity
despite the impressive com"ilation of facts. He seems to desire
further internretation and evaluation to go with these facts.
Teaching Science
Placing all education uron a scientific basis is advocated by
Masao Kuroda in NIPPON KYOIKU. The first sten in the reconstructior
of Japan, he says, is to restore prido and ideals to the reople
through reeducation, by means of liberal philosophy, accurate
historical research, study of natural science, physical training
and art. Kuroda would give spiritual orientatinn by teaching
liberal philosophy and letting youth thereby generate sound morals
for itself. History, he states, should be the science of search-

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.99)
ing for standards on the basis of known facts. Science is not
sim ly knowledge of natural nhenomena, but the method of induo-
tion of general laws from individual facts. "It is to abstract,
to induce, to organize, and then to analyze com lex henomena,
to penetrate external factors, to search for causes, and to extend
the annlications." As such, it should be studied and epnlied
through all levels and branches of society. In conclusion,Kuroda
declares that "nhysical training and artistic education are the
fundamental nourishment by which the nation is m de healthy and
bright."
An enthusiastic sunrorter of the scientific arnroach to edu-
cation is Moriyoshi Takano, princinal of the Takahama Primary
School in Niigata, who is represented by four articles in recent
educational magazines. Takano's school has been commisioned by
the Ministry of Education to lay snecial em-hasis unon scicntific
method, and Takano is at some nains to describe his ideas and
practices. His general policies, he reveals in NIPPON KYOIKU, are:
(1) increased accomnlishmont through scientific methods; (2) culti-
vation of the fundamental scientific technique, sririt, and
nanners; (3) making the daily life scientific and anplyin: rational
"ractices; (4) spreading knowledge of the wide anplications of
science and creating spontaneous intercst; (5) enccuragement of
scientific observation and research concerning one's native land.
Every child in the school takes nart in Takano's self-study nrogram,
with the guidance of the teachers. Laboratories, rrojection
machines, radios, and other equioment are made available. Dise
cussion groups examine the old traditional habits of the land and
deternine which are good and which are not.
In KOKUMIN KYOIKU (Kogakunen), Takano declares that "science
should be made ractical by study in the open ficlds, in the
mountains, on the sea and in the streets." His classes aro snlit
into six grours to study agriculture, fishing, solt manufacture,
stock raising, meteorology, and natural science, utilizing Friday
and Saturday of each wcek for this purpose. In KOKUMIN KYOIKU
(Teignkunen), ho claborates on the same subject, exnlaining again
that he believes in taking his nurils outdoors as much as nossible
in order to bring them into direct contact with nature. "I let my
nupils sow seeds in the open field. If rain falls, theseeds will
srrout so much the earlier, and if they put forth buds, insects
will eat them. What are the names of these insects? What should
be done to kill these insects? When the flowers bloom, butterflies
will come. How do these buttcrflies suck honey? I seek to have
observation and study intimately connected with the organic
structure of nature." He then goes on to describe his methods of
arousing and maintaining the children's interest, associating
science with daily life, teaching scientific thinking, and utilizing
the discussion method.
Toshio Hosoya, discussing technical education in NIPPON KOIKU,
uses a renort from the Central Unemnloyment Committee to the
Welfare Ministry to bolster his argument that past education has
laid too much stress on business rursuits, and too little on tech-
nical training. "The school of thought which discriminates between
mental and physical labor must be abolished, and the intellectual
class must be led to engage in physical activity with pleasure,"
the report is quoted as saying. During wartime, Hosoya writes,
workmen were necessarily given only basic training in a particular
job. Now a more thorough schooling should be given. "The cardinal
principle of technical education is to give the technician the
ability to change from one job to another and adant himself to his
new work. * * * A trained worker engaged in modern industry should
have not only a skillful technique, but also a ood rational
knowledge of the principles involved." Present-day Janan has need
of many skilled technicians; and Hosoya wishes to see students
familiarized with principles of production, machine operation, and
scientific technique as early as the primary and middle schools -

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.98)
claiming: that this will provide both intellectual and practical
training. He also would create closer ties between school and
factory, that each might learn from contact with the other.
Other Subjects
Closely nllied to the foregoing articles are several which
advocate precise and mathematical habits of thinking. In an
article in KOKUMIN KYOIU(Chugakunen), Moriyoshi Takano, appearing
again, argues the need for teaching princinles of calculation to
children at an early age. "Calculation provides a scientific basi
for making life rational and efficient." Children are trained in
his school, Takano writes, to think of things in terms of their
measurements or figures. They are taught to observe the length of
poles and windows, the weight of stones, the canacity of water
vessels, the area of ilower gardens, classrooms or play yards, and
the angle of stairways; cnd in various other ways they are familia-
rized with thinkine in torms of fi ures. "The Janonese are goner-
ally lacking in ability to calculato accurately and to view things
scientifically," he esserts. "It is essontial to give youngsters
a stetistical and scientific education."
A KOKUMIN KYOIKU (Teigakunen), piece by Kichie Iwashita,
principal of the Matsue Primary Schocl in Tokyc, pens with a re-
ference to "dollar-and-cents thinking," which means, ho declares
"minute and enreful thought based unon concrete figures." This is
called one of the national characteristics of the Amoricans, who
lay much stress on concrete mathematical data. As for the Jananese.
he criticizes, "we have only vefue notions about everything in our
daily life. We do not seek concrete facts. We do not carry out
experiments. We are satisfied only with guesses. * * * We must try
to be more interosted in obsorving, thinking about, and treating
things from the mathcmatical p-int of view." Iwashita suggests
such school methods as those advocnted by Takane in the foregoing
article, ond offers the idea of textbooks adauted to the local cha:
acteristics and surroundings of ench school.
Two writers discuss children's drama, in KOKUMIN KYOIKU
(Teigakunen) and KOKUMIN KYOIKU (Chugakunen). In the former journa
Katsuyoshi Ichibori maintains that rimary schocl students are
keenly interested in activities which imitate family life, social
life, and school life, and, therefore, thot simrle drama is one of
the best means of. properly guiding their interests. Drama, he
asserts, is also an cxcellent meens of teachin: good diction,
pronunciation, proper expression, and princinles of behaviour.
Mitsuaki Yasui of Kanagawa Norma1 School stresscs the slogan
"learnin: by doing" in an artiole in the latter magazine. "To deve
lon the boy's cbility as muoh as possible is the requirement of
today's prinnry education. One should study how to see, how to
taste, how to express himsclf, through observation of actual human
nature. It woula be worthwhilo to take un the drama as the driv-
ing nower for our new education."
A well known sculptor and art critic, Arata Hongo, writes
on art instruction in KOKUIN KYOIKU (Chugakunen), There is no
unity of instruction or agreement over methods of teaching art, he
clains, because the original and fundamental characteristic of art
-- its connection with life -- has becn lost. He derlores over-
emnhasis on formality of design and strict utilitarianism and the
method which has taught children to copy from rictures placed befor
them rather than directly from a model or from nature. Art instru
tion must return, he maintains, to the fundamental princinle that
art is the expression of one's heart and soul. The study of art
must be associated with the surroundings of the nuril's daily life,
and should be combined with the study of other subjects, especially
science and mathematics. Pupils must be given freedom to express
themselves and develop their own individualities. "Art must alway:
be a part of our lives and must be a vivid ex ression of the varie
yet fundamental, daily living circumstances," he concludes.

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.98)
Another artist, Chozo Saito, writes of art educatfon for
childreh in NIPPON KYOIKU. He depbres the school of "freeehand
drawing" which was in vogue not long ago, maintaining that it
depends too much on a child's own artistic sense, which is yet
developed an unstable. On the other hand, he admits that this
method gives freedom for development of originality. Saito then
attempts to establish the source of all artistic expression in
"ardour" -- ardour for beauty and truth, which is the most importar
component of art. "If the teachers have it, the children's 
like intuition is sure to accent it. When both teachers and child-
ren pursue beauty and truth together, a way will naturally be found
The use of the wartime rawing cory book "E-No-Hon" fails to convey
this "ardour" to the puril, Saito says, desrite its comeleteness.
Physical e lucation is the topic of a KOKUMIN KYOIKU (Chugakuner
piece by Kiyoshi Shingyoji of the primary school attached to Chiba
Normal School. The reconstruction of Japan depends unon education,
the writer asserts; and especially on physical elucation, because
a healthy mind accompanies a healthy body. "Physical education
serves not only to promote health, but also to put people in a
condition which facilitates the mental rocesses and makes possible
the rational handling of the daily tasks." Shingyoji is concerned
especially with overcoming the obstacles set by cold weather and
declares that "the strong caracity and will bo cone with intense
cold must be developed." He then lays out a proposed program of
rigorous cold weather training, devoting special attention to making
the program attractive to children and the relationship between
proper nourishment and rhysical exertion. He thinks that a school
lunch program should be instituted as quickly as possible.
The Director of the Physical Training Promotion Section of
the Ministry of Elucation, Yoshihiko Kurimoto, writes on the manage-
ment of athletic meets in KOKUMIN KYOIKU: (Teigagunen).These events.
he declares, can give the students a sense of rleasure and satis-
faction which is especially necessary in the present dark days. He
says that management shoula be taken from the hands of the teachers
and given to the students, who will form good habits by assuming
jobs, taking resuonsibi ity for them, and carrying them out by in-
dividual initiative. This can bo an important part of democratic
education, Kurimoto holds, and ho follows with concrete suggestions
for successful management of group meets.
Conclusion
It is easy to perceive the enthusiasm, sometimes anproaching
fervor, which animates most of these educational writers. It might
scem especially encouraging to note that most of them are persons
actually in direct contact with the youth of Janan -- the teachers
themselves, who know tho rroblems firsthand and arise to meet the
challenge. It is evident that progressive thought is stirring in
Jananese educational circles.
Sources
(Magazines, Circulations* and Authors*)
ASLHI HYORON (Asahi Review) 5O, OOO, Teiyu Amano; BUNGEI
SHUNJU (Literary Review) 70, O00, Kenko Kimura, Masao Murayama,
Motokichi Kyoguchi; CHUTo KYOIKU (High School Education) 1O, O0o
HIKARI (Light) 80,O0O, Kaname Hayashi; NIPPON KYOIKU(Japan's Educa-
tion) 30,O00, Toshiki Sano, Shuhei Ishiyama,Kenichi Ozawa, Yoshizo
Nogawa, Dr.Tsuneo Maramatsu, Yukio Togawa, Muneomi Kaigo, Masao
Kuroda, Moriyoshi Takano,Toshio Hosoya, Chozo Saito; KokUMIN KYOIku
Teigakunen (Elementary Education: Lower Grades) 20,O00, Takeshi Koi
Moriyoshi Takano,Kichie Iwashita,Katsuyoshi Ichibori,Yoshihiko Kuri-
moto; KOKUMIN KYOIKU: Chugekunen(Elementary Education: Middle Grade
20,O00, Moriyoshi Takano,Shigeichi Douchi,Masao Yamashita,Mitsuaki
Yasui,Arata Hongo,Kiyoshi Shingyoji;KOkUMÍN KYOIKU: Kogakunen(Ele-
mentary Education: Higher Grades) 20, O00,Kanzo Komura,Shuhaku Kondo
Torashire Ozaki,Moriyoshi Takano;SEkAI(The World)8o.ooo Kenko Kimu

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.96)
Form DS-802
(7-2-46)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
ff
DC/R
3-X
PLAIN
A
ulegin to Rio
Action:
Control 9711
Info :
ARA
4/3/47-e0n
Rec'd October 31, 1947
DCR
file
4:59 p.m.
FROM:
Rio de Janeiro
SEA
FAR EAS
TO
: Secretary of State
NOV 1 1947
894.42
NO : 1513, October 31
296.42/1.
Instructions 827, August 13.
Roman Ubaldo, Philippine trainee requests thirty-
day extension his assignment this post. Please
telegraph.
/10-3147
KEY
DM:MES
NOV 10 1947
FILEL
PLAIN
HH
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.91)
SORM DAS22
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
INDIGATS
Collect
Department of State
Changa Dopartment X
Washington
Charge to
AMEMBASSY
94.42100
RIO DE JANEIRO
1235
THIRD
Re EBTEL 1513 Oct 31. Dept regrets unable comply Ubalde
re uest and instructs Ubaldo proceed Us by Nov 15 accordance
travel orders.
Marehall
(8)
947 NOV 3
CS/A
DISTRISUTION
DCT
DESIRED
894.
(OFFICESON)
n
M

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.97)
ARD FORM NO.
DATE: 11/20/47
To : NA, Mr. Allison
FROM : ADO, Mr. Schuler
suect: Attached letter from Professor Robert King Hall
concerning The New York Times article, reporting
remarks of Mr. Sebald in Tokyo
Could Na give me its comnents on the
allegations in the attached letter from
Professor Hall of Teachers College, Columbia
University? Professor Hall is, of course,
correct in his assertion that decentralization
of administration was adopted as a cardinal
element of our educational policy for Japan.
The phrase, "in due course" was employed,
however, to ensure that no precipitate measures
were taken. Perhaps this is what it involved,
I don't know. In any case, we can't understand
why this subject should be up for discussion
in the Allied Council in Tokyo. Can you shed
any light?
117 
ADO: FASchuler, Jr./je

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.95)
TEACHERSCOLLEGE
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY
NFW YORK 27, N. Y.
17 November 1947
JIVISION
DIC OCCUPIE
OIC OCCUPIGO AREAS DIVISION
Mr. Frank A. Schuler, Jr.
(ADO)
Chief, Japanese-Korean Branch
NOV201947
894.42/11-1747
Division of Occupied Areas
BIATE
Department of State
DEYAR
DEPARTMENT OF BTATE
Washington 25, D. C.
ans'd12/5/47
AbO-1
Dear Mr. Schuler:
In the Thursday, 13 November 1947, issue of the New York Times there
is a brief notice datelined Tokyo, November 12, special to the New York
Times, entitled "New xchange Rate Is Urged for Japan".
Buried in this news items is a brief statement to the effect that
William J. Sebald, the American chairman of the Allied Council in Japan,
had "challenged the occupation plans for decentralizing the school ad-
ministration, asserting that finance and general policy, including the
appointment, promotion and dismissal of teachers and textbook prepara-
tion should remain under the central government". To say that I am
astonished is to put it mildly, as it was my impression that (1) this
policy of decentralization was the most fundamental recommendation (with
the possible exception of language revision) of the United States Educa-
tion Mission to Japan; (2) that this policy was approved by the United
States vepartment of State; (3) that the Far bastern Commission in Wash-
ington had approved this policy in its 27 March 1947 "Policy for the Re-
vision of the Japanese Educational System"; and (4) that it was made a
part of the 25 and 27 March 1947 Japanese Laws Implementing the New Con-
stitution, popularly known as the "Educational Reform Bills".
As this positin  Mr. Sebald, if it reflects official policy and if
it is accurately reported, marks the most fundamental break in the entire
Occupation policy of the United States, it would appear to be of funda-
CS
mental importance. Is it possible for you to indicate (1) whether or
not it is an accurate reporting of what he said; (2) whether or not there
V
has been this fundamental shift in Occupation policy; and (3) if the
United States has not shifted its position, why our official representa-
DEC19
tive used a Council meeting as a sounding board?
FILHD
Very truly yours,
0
taber
27
ROBERT KING HALL
RKH:M

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.98)
EW EXCHANGE RATE
URGED FOR JAPAN
Speciel to Tys Nzw Yozx Tuss.
TOKYO. Nov 12—Immedlate
establishment of & Japanese ex-
change rate is essential, occupa-
tion officials have been told by
high Russian and British memberg
of the Allied Council. General
MacArthur's headquarters, whan
presenting the subject for Council
discussion Oct. 15, argued strongly
for delay.
At yesterday's Council meeting
Maj. Gen. Alex E. P. Mislenk, act-
ing Soviet member, asserted "Es-
tablishment of an exchange rate
will favorebly affect foreigh trade
development, help stabilize Japa-
nese economy and improv the peo-
ple's living standards."
He urged Its establishment "at
the earliest poasible date' and add-
ed that a proper balange should be
struck between produstion for ex-
port and production for domestic
consumption. There has been an
occupation tendency to try to ex-
port almost everything made from
imported materials to build ex-
change reserves.
At yesterday's meeting William
J. Sebald, American chairman, re-
ported on educational reforms. He
challenged the occupation plans
for decentralizing the school ad-
ministration, asserting that fi-
nance and general policy, including
the appointment, promotion and
dismissal of teachers and textbook
preparation should remain under
the central government.
"It is dangerous to assume that
the provinces will be as keen for
reform as are the leading educa-
tors in the big cities."

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.95)
OIC OCCUPIED AREAS DIVISION
(ADO)
DATE: December 3, 1947.
TO
: ADO - Mr. Schulen
DEC  1947
FROM : NA - Mr. Allison
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
suBject: Your request for NA's comments on truth of attached New York
Times Article.
In reply to your request, I understand that Mr. Green
894
telephoned you several days ago to say that NA had fairly good
evidence that Mr. Sebald did not make the remarks attributed
to him by the New York Times but that a full reply could not be made
to your inquiry until the official minutes of the November 12 ACJ
meeting are received.
We have now received these minutes and from them it is clear
that Mr. Sebald made no statement that could be construed as veri-
fying the New York Times charge. However, at the close of the
-1747
meeting the British member, Mr. Shaw, made the following statement:
"In your report you describe the reorganization which has
been carried out under the provislons of the Constitution, the
Fundamental Law of Education, and the School Education Law. You
mentioned the extension of responsibilities from the national
to the prefectural levels, and the utilization of new professional
groups and local committees. This trend of decentralization of
educational activity is a healthy one, especially in the spheres
you particularly mentioned, namely, adult education and youth
organizations.
"Might I suggest, however, that the broad foundations of
educational reform must be laid by a centralized authority.
Important 1ssues such as the allocation of finance and the es-
tablishment of a regularized system for the appointment, promo-
tion and dismissal of teachers--such matters should remain among
the functions of a central-government department.
"It is 1mportant to tap local opinion and interest upon which
democratic ideas must ultimately be based, but it 1s rather danger-
ous to assume as yet that local provincial bodies would be as keen
for reform as the leading educators in the big cities.
Fw894.
"Policy planning and the supervision of textbooks should
therefore remain in the hands of a central education department
S
for some time yet."
c
It is therefore apparent that the New York Times erroneously
2
ascribed to Mr. Sebald what, in faety was stated by the British
member.
mug
NA:MGreen/hhc
AluldL.lu/on mn Haif
n Tome dipe

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.97)
STANDARD FORM,NO. 64
TO
: Mr. Allison
DATE:NOV. 29, 1947
FROM : M. Green
suBject: Attached file relating to a N.Y. Timesarticle, reporting
on Mr. Sebald's remarks at the Nov. 12 AdJ meeting.
As of Nov. 28, CAD had not received the minutes of this
ACJ meeting. Untilthey are received- probably within a week-
it will not be possible officially to evaluate the truth of
the N.Y. Times report.
Meanwhile we have rather good evidence that this report
1e erroneous:
1. Attached herewith is the substance of the prepared
remarks made by Mr. Sebald at the aforementioned meeting.
This is an advance copy and apparently the only one in
Washington, having been brought back from Tokyo by Niles Bond.
There is nothing in these remarks to suggest the truth of the
N.Y. Times allegation that Mr. Sebald had "challenged the
Occupation plans for decentralizing the school administration".
In fact Mr. Sebald advocated quite the opposite.
2. As you know, the Soviet, Chinese and even British
representatives on the ACJ are always spoiling forshowdown
with Mr. Sebald on educational reforms." If Mr. Sebald had
made the remarke ascribed to him by the N.Y. Times, subsequent
FBIB Bulletins would have undoubtedly been replete with
indignant outpourings from the Soviet and Chinese press
and radio. This has not been the case.
Would you prefer that a memo be drafted in reply to Schuler's
inquiry or, because of the tentative nature of our reply, that
the foregoing info be 'phoned to him ?
ME
y2eg

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.93)
-2-
espitulation. It was  effestive edesatien in the sanse that the
people abeged with a blind obedieneo.
The seheel system reflected the sesial diserininstione of Japanese
sosisty, diseriminstiome besed upen essmemde and family pesitiem (ese
Anvsn A). The path to edmeatienal heights was epem ealy to a faveved
fow. Fer the everwhelming majerity, a cemplicated set of berriers to
etssatienal epportunity had been designed to restrist further advanees.
Girls had few eppertwnitiess they were denied entranse inte momy
higher institutions and recsived an inferier edmestien at the elemestary
seheel level. The peried of compulsory edueatien was shert and evem
when extended by law, enforeement was not attempted. Disesimimstion
existed against private schools and the concept of the ssheel-tie"
grew around certain publie institutions to such an extent that students
aftem postpened or abandoned further etusation when they failed to gain
admittanee to such 'desirable" schools.
In a syatem of education of this kind there was little place for
professional educators. The edueation of children, frem the classresm
teasher to the Minister of Education, was in the hands of baresserets.
Textbooks were written, not by individuals with prefessienal cempetemce,
but by bareaucratic officials of the Ministry of Edacatien, many of whem
had no professional edueatienal training and few of whem had ever served
as teschere.
Seheel inspecters were, in faet, thought-centrel effieiale and
funstiened mere eften as polieemen rather than as prefessienal con-
saltamts to the elassreem tessher. Principale of scheels were uwstrained
in prefessional adxinistrative methods, they ruled as petty dietasere.
In prestiee, throughout the entire system of bureeseratie offisialdem
in edesatien, there was a constant passing of orders frem higter to
Lewer levels, with inspestien to sheek eesplismee and reperts agaiest
those whe failed to follow the preseribed path. In eenseqeense, these

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.91)
-8-
was a laek of prefessienel integrity and the mehinsey of edsscksen
became mare and mere perverted to the wse of the militariste.
Tesehers were fellowere rather then leeders. They were peesly
paid end received far less eampensetien tham ether soverment effi-
stals of comparable rank. Oppertuaities for advanesmeut were few,
as higher posts in educatien were swarded to buresserats rather than
to professional teschers. Ls membere of the metiesal civil serviee,
teashers were responsible te the national government in Takye rather
then te the lesal comwwmity in whish they served. The right of
teschere to orgenise asscciatieme was severely lisited by the govers-
mest; teaehers' asseciations were gevertment sponsored, subsidised,
and coatrelled.
At the beginming of the Ocoupatien, the Sapreme Gemmsader was
fesed with the problem of transforming the seheel system whish I have
briefly deseribed into an effective isstrument fer the furtheremse of
a deseoratie sesiety. It was decidsd to accemplish this ebjestive
without elosing the sehool doors exoept for a lixited peried. Cbvisusly,
this trensfermatiem required a major operatien, and careful planming
was neeessary im order to effest a sound transitien from the old to
the new. The first peried of the Occupation was, therefore, deveted
to plannins majer reforms, although simaltansously special measeres
were takem to eliminste majer evils. Sahools were soon reepened and
the Japaaese Government was directed to eliminate all militaristie
and ultre-mationalistie features of the educational system and te
cemstrest a sound demseratic pattern of edusation. All pessemmel,
inelufing classreem teashere, were held responsible for the implemss-
tatien of SCAP direstives and all sshoel officials were impressed with
a sease of their respenoibility for contributing te the reform of
Japanese edusation.
Ddete

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.94)
-4-
Immediste mdifestien of the centent of iastrestion wme made.
Military instrustere and instrectien were removed fren all seheels,
and piysicel edesatien pregreme were revised to aliminste militery
pheses thereef. The Imperial Epseript en Eéssstiem was eliminsted
frem seheel ceremenial use. Consequent upon the iesuance of & sGap
direstive separatins chureh and state, all Shinteistie prestiess were
ferbidden. Existing schoel textbooks were contimsed in use tempererily,
with ultre-matiemalistic and militaristie materials deleted. In the
epring of 1946, new editions of textbooks approved by SGaP were isened.
Courses in seegraphy, Japanese history, and morals had besn se sasurated
with ultre-mstionalism and militarism that these subjecte were sespemted
frem the scheel program by SCAP directive. Regulatiens of the Ministey
of Edaeation which required objectionable practiees or the teschins of
objestionable content were abrogated.
Steps were taken toward the elimination of the diserimimatery
features of the educational pattern, and prohibitions againet so-edmestiemel
instruction at the elementary scheol level were removed. Wemen were
admitted to government univeraities as regular students in the epring
of 1946.
The Minister and Vice-Minister of Education, for the firat time,
were appeinted from among professional educators, and throughout the
Miaistry mere and more important positions were filled by experts in
education. The thought-control funetions of scheol inspecters were
abrogated and principals were required to recognise the rights of
tegchers te share in discussions of seheel problems and in planning
sehool programs. Restrictions on researeh and freedem of inquisy were
removed; government control of teaehers' organisations was elimimsteds
and teackers' malaries were placed en a parity with the salariss of
other govermment officials of comparable rank.

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.95)
-5-
It will be apprecisted that the aliminstiem of cbjecttensble
perseamel from the edssatienal system presented a fermidakle tack.
Most career military men were removed frem the sekeels by the
eliminstien of military instrustion, and many thousands of tesshers
and soheel offisiale resigned in anticipation of the sereening pregrem.
Machinery for seresning all edusational pereennel, frem the Mimister
of Edueatiom down to the classroom teacher, was ectablished. Sereening
committees were formed on a decentralised basis by prefestures and all
edusational personnel were subjected to an examinatiem of their pest
reearde to determine their suitability for partisipatiom is a demserasis
pregrem of edusation.
Early in 1946, while many of the emergeney meamares just deseribed
were being earried out, the detailed planming of the essential featares
of a completely reorganised sehool system was begum. Im Mareh, 1946,
a Mission of preminent United States educatore visited Japan and made
recommendations for major reforms which appeared desirable. The Japemese
Government formed a parallel committee to work with this group and later
raised its eommittee to the level of a Cabinet Committes now kmewn as the
Japanese Educatien Reform Couneil. Finally, the Far Eastern Cammiesies,
in a policy decision adopted in April, 1947, recemmended detailed peliey
for the reform of Japanese education. These three bodies were in
agreement in their major recommendations for reform, and all stressed
a fundamental prineiple with which the Supreme Commander is in eomplete
agreement, namely, that the reform of Japanese education is a Japaness
problem which must be solved by the Japanese themselves and integrated
by them into the social fabric of the demoeratic society now emerging.
The astual reform of education is based upon three documente of
majer impertance: (a) the new Constitution of Japan; (b) the Fundamemtal
Law of Education, which defines the edusational implicstions of the
Constitution, and (e) the Sahoel Education Law, which establishes a

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.93)
-6-
now edcestiensl stresture. In additien, the dapanese Geveses ow has
under esnsideration a now patterm of eokeel adsiaistratism wtich wweld
effectively decentralise the edministratiem and esstrel of edssstien.
There are mumerous detailed changes implieit is the fundamental
reforme. Thus, the Ministry of Edmeatiom is extending respensibilisies
frem a mational level to the prefestures as well as to the individeal
schools and groupe of seheels. Such shanges, made withim the framewesk
of laws passed by the Dist, have been undertakem with a eeeperative
spiris uakmem daring the yeare of buresueratie centrol. Fer advise
and guidanee, the Ministry of Edusatien has utilised new prefessienal
assosiations and committees of edusators conserned with spesifis
problems. Edseation Committees have been formed in beth heuses of the
Diet. Wewspaper comment and publie reastien alse indieste the aseeptanse
of this now responsibility for referm of Japamese eduestiem. The advise
and guidance of General Heedquarters have been available te the Japanese
Geverament, both at the natienal and prefectural levels, and this assist-
ance has been fully utilised.
Stimalsted by the Winistry of Education, an extensive and varied
pregram of adult education has been initiated threughout Japan. Citissps'
Publie Halls have been established in many communities, Parent-Tesehers
Asseeiatiens have develeped on & seund basis; visual edusation, extemsion
courses, and edacation by correspondenee are available to adults; werkere'
and youns peeple's education pregrams, art and mmsic festivals, sperts
events, and library facilities have been vigorously developed. Youth
Orgamisations have been reerganised along demecratic lines, with emphesis
en edeeation, and the former gevernmental strangle hold en sueh greape
has been remeved. Finally, in both adult edueation prejecte and youth
ergamisations, control and administration have been desemtrelised te a
oommanity lovel.
No seheel system ean be better tham its tesahers and mmch attemtiem
has, therefere, been given to the probloms of teashins peseemmel. Over
100.000

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.89)
2
-7-
100,000 teachere and edseationml effisials whese pes resede intlented
unonttabdlity fer effestive participetian is the now edmessienal egetem
either reskgned er were soreened cut by sereening eemittess fesmed sn
a decentralised basis throughout the esustry. These tesekere whe
renained are beins siven estensive pregress of re-training fer their
new reepensibilities, and contimeed in-servise traiming ef teeshese
has been undertakem through werksbeps, conferenses, eerrespendense
study pregrame, and the use of the radie. The Ministry of MMesstiem
is mow fommalatins sound xinimme standards of prefessienal treising
and certifisation of educational persennel. Hewever, in erder te meet
the demand for teachere during these times of ecememde stress, am
extension of the peried of pre-service training and the eperatiom of
desirable sertificatiom standards must necessarily be sehieved
gradually, a faster which, thmtembekdevee is clearly reeegnieed by
the respensible smtherities.
Follewing the temporary measures taken during the firet year of
the Oscupetien, mew ourricula, courses of study, and revised testbeeks,
partieularly for courees in geograpky, history, and morals, were
istredused at the beginning of the current sehoel year im April, 1947.
Msteriale have been adjusted to the psyehological develepmest of the
seheel ehild, and derived from the sesial enviremment in whish the
shild lives, and aew provide for an insreased astive learaing presess
in plase of the previous patterm of learning by rete. These materials
are presently being subjested to & searshing ecaminatiem by esucstional
affieiale and classreom teachere throughout the country and are undergsing
evalsatiem and revision in terms of experienee in ectual teaskins
situatiens.
The mew eurrieale give preminsnce te soeial studies, with emphasis
upen werld affairs and international cceperation. A piyaieal edssstio
peogrom

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.91)
-8-
pregren has been develeped to eoukrabete to the health and peereatsen
of the intividmal and with stress en tesm games and aperte.
In edsinietratien, a mmsber of sigaifieant refesme beve aireaty
beem plased iute effeet. Advisery edesatiem cemittese in leeal
commmmities have been mads elestive bedies rather then appeistees of
the heedmen or mayer, imereasing discretion has been sivem te pre-
festural and lesal lovels, and initistive hae been enceuraged; private
prefessiemal agensies, such as the University Aecreditatiem Assesiesien,
are being utilised to assist in the detersinatiem of miaimmm nstiomal
otandarde.
The eemplieated and diseriminatory educational ladder has mew been
replesed, through the amestment of the Sehoel Educatien Lew, by a
simplified Ladder whieh provides for equal epportunity in edasstion
(mee Ammex B). Provisiem is made for ar elementary seheel pregrem of
six years, to be fellowed by & three-year lewer-secondary pregrem--
these nine years to be free for all shildren. The upper-sesesdary eeheel
of three years prevides the first level of voluntary educatien. In
addition to the standard upper-secondary seheel, a part-time sebeel
with the same currieulum extended over a longer peried of study is beins
established to accommodate working students. This is follewed by a
four-year college or university program, with provisiem for further
graduste study. Thie progrem, with its ease of tremsfer frem eme
institusiem to amother and with all sehools offering a comparakle level
of edusation, provides fer an effective removal of diseriminstery metheds
of selection and eliminates edacational blind alleys. During the eurrent
year, the lewer secondary seheol was established on a natisn-xide basis
and cempulsory education thereky extended frem six te seven years.
Extensiem to the eighth year will be made in Aprál, 194s, fellewed by
the ninth year in 1949. The upper-seeondary sebeel will be established
in April, 194s, and a mumber of institations will then be chartered as
fow

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.92)
fomryear kigher institusions under the Sobeel Bieestten Len.
The now esheel syetem is being istredesed by the dapanene
Govesnment in the fase of tremendeus cdde. At many peinte, cosmemée
diffisulties are sash thas the aystem is being plesed iate epesstion
water eonditions which thresten its effective develepaest. Fer emsmple,
meay seheel clessroems are located in usssed fastery baildings)
elementary and lower-sscondary seheels are hepelessly esewted inte the
seme building; meay classes are held in the epen airy memeress buildings
are in disrepair, and authorised new construstien is lagging fer leek
of feads and materials. There is an estimated shertage ef 40,000
teachers. The mest serious material problem at presemt is the shertage
of paper: students in all grades have omly a freetien of the textbeaks
planned fer their use and many subjects are taught with a textbeek in
the teacher's hands enly; vital msterials for the re-edseetion of
teachers eanmet be printed and distributed; and the whole pregres of
edusation by cerrespondence is threatened.
At the present time, the national government plays & majer rôle
in fimancing education. It is likely to retain this respeasibility
even when administrative control of educatiem has been more eempletely
decentralised. Prefectures with limited resouroes will need more
assistanee frem the natienal government, and yet slight increasss is
edusational funds in the national budget have nesessarily lagged far
behind inereases in the tetal budgst (see Annex C).
In the fase of these odds the Japanese Govermment, supperted by
the people, is maving ferward with the new progrem of edusatien. The
pressure of publie epinion for greater suppert of educatien, in funds
and in eritical msterials, is increasing, as evidemeed by the reseipt
of millioms of letters of pretest when it resently appeared thet aaly
limited funds weald be eppropriated in the present year's supplementery
badet.
In stamatien, the essential mmehinery fer the establiskment of a
refermed edusatienal syetem in Japan has been created. The susesss

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.83)
-30-
theeef will dapend uen the oatmeed wil1 of the depeese people
to sckiere iaprevement, upen the pregreesive developusst of peo.
fesstenel ability to eperate the system--ineluting ability of the
people to partialpate effestively and to earsy their share of
respenaibility-and, finally, upen the extent to whish the edecstien
pregrem ean achieve adequate finameial suppert and allesation of
essensial meterials.

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.98)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFA
OF THE
UNITED STÁTES OF AMERICA
JAN 1 4 1948
DEPARIMLNI Lr STATE
RESTRICTED
Moscow, December 10, 1947
No. 1919
Subject: Transmitting Translated Summary of
Articles on Japanese Eaucation.
The Charge d'Affaires ad interim has the honor
to enclose a translated sumnary by the Joint Press
1
Reading Service of an article appearing in the Teachers
Gazette for October 1947 entitled "What Interferes
with the Democratization of ducation in Japan", and
2/
of an article appearing in the soviet periodical Public
Education entitled "A Visit to Tokyo University". Both
articles were written by S. waev, who apparently has
recently returned from a visit to Japan.
In the first article ar. aev criticizes the suc-
cess of American efforts to democratize Japanese edu-
cation. He notes tnat the Japanese Government is
mainly concerned with the sabotaging of the democra-
tization of education and as an example that military
FE
education still persists points out that an organiza-
tion of Boy Scouts nas receatly been organized with
the full encouragement of General MacArthur's staff!
EE
Religion is seen as a force liverting the Japa-
016-
nese from the struggle for democratic organization of
their country. The increased influence of the Catholic
A-S
Church and the strengthening of activities by the
OCD
Protestant churches of America and Canada are viewed
as alarming activities nore of a political than of a
religious nature.
DC/R
In discussing teachers' organizations in Japan,
Armye
Mr. Maev describes the All-Japanese Congress of
Teachers' Unions and the Teachers Federation. The
CS/V
Hacyene
former, he states, had 320,000 members in March 1947
and within the organization Communist influence is
considerable. The Teachers Federation is disparagingly
noted as a trade union wnich strives not to mix trade
union activities with political struggle.
In his article describing his visit to Tokyo
Inperial University, Mr. Maev gives some very gloomy
impressions. He rinds the buildings dilapidated and
deserted and a dearth of Russian literature in the
literary faculty and library. However, he notes that
the University has both a Coamunist and Komsomol
DEPART
organization, the former boasting 45 members in No-
vember 1946 and the latter 40 members. In addition,
Mr. Maev found a very flourishing circle in the Uni-
JÄN 30 1948
versity for the study of the Soviet Union. Inter-
estingly enough, he discovered that a similar circle
th
to
RESTRIC TED

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.95)
No. 1919, December 10, 1947, Moscow.
- 2 -
to promote friendship with the United States exists
only nominelly and since its foundation has shown no
signs of life.
r. Maev believes that Japanese scholars are
more and more turning their eyes to the Soviet Union
and tihet despite the obstacles created by General
Machrthur, Japanese scientists are becoming acquainted
with tne acnievenents and successes of Soviet science.
1 f ca nith oing.
Enclosures:
Translated suamaries by Joint
Press Reading Service of fol-
lowing articles:
1. "what Interferes with the
Democratization of ducation
in Japan", Teachers Gazette
October 1947. (5 copies to
Department)
2. "A Visit to Tokyo University",
Public ducation, September
1947. (5 copies to Department)
J:r
Original and hecthgraph to
Department.
Copy to Tokyo.
YOL
RESTRICTED

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.98)
dated Decomber 1o, 194
Embas'sy, Mosoow, U.S.S.R.
6. cont'd.
-7-
"Teachers' Gazette" Nos. 41
The pedagogical"theory" of Dewey is a true reflection
of the dollar civilisation of present-day America. It is especially dango
because Dewey hypocritically covers over by "criticism" of some aspeots or
the capitalist system his real purpose, which is the struggle to maintain
the bases of imperialism.
"Teachers' Gazette", No.43, 1947
7.
THE SCHOOL OF THE SOVIET LAND
(Excerpts from 1: col. leading article)
In capitalist countries the school is the instrument of
bourgeois class domination.
For instance, in such "advaneed" capitalist countries as
England and imerica, under the veil of false denocratic phrases we see the
same systen of education as in Tsarist Russia completely subordinatéd to the
interests and policies of the ruling classes. School education is adapted
to prove the "pemanency" of the capitalist order. Some text-books, expeoially
geographical and historical ones, contain anti-Soviet propa cnde and malioious
slander against the Soviet people. This is how the principle of the
"independence" of the school frcn politics looks in reality! Under the
cover of this principle American "educators" moke use not only of their own
schools but those of other countries in the interests of the imperialist
poliey of their country. Thus, under th influence of such "educators"
education in China is  sed on American models and pupils are inspired with
submission to everything American. In Japan, the American occupational
authorities encourege the education of the youth in the old military spirit
and democretically inclined teachers are subject to persecution and oppression.
It would be possible to cite many examples of this kind.
The schools of the Soviet Union train active builders of
socialisn. For the first time ithhigtpry the problem of educeting not masters
and servants but a race of free people? has been raised and is being success
fully solved;
"Teachers' Gazette", No.44. 1947
WHAT INTERFERES WITH THE DEMOCRATISATION OF EDUCATION
IN JAPAN
By S. Maev (Summary of 1gcol. article)
Two years have passed since the capitulation of Japan. a
sufficient space of time in which to form the basis for the demoeratio re-
construction of this country. Even American conmentators, who can hardly be
accused of a special desire to criticise MacArthur's policy in Jepan, are
forced to adnit that the United States has not solved the obligations under-
taken befcre the United Nations.
The main lines for the denocratisation of the Japanese
educational system were laid down by the resolution of the Far Eastern
Canmission in March 1947.
It is apparent that the Japanese Government is mainly con-
cerned with sabotaging the denocratisation of Japanese education as well as
the demilitarisation of the country. the liguidation of large capitalist
concerns, the landed aristocracy, etc. Facts prove that the American
occupational authorities are not only failing to prevent the activity of
Japanese reaction, but are even encouraging it.
It is frequently al'eged that military education has been
abolished; mevertheless, with the support and encouragement of Mac-Arthur's
staff en organisation of bo scouts has recently been organised.
Of late the increased influence of the Catholie Church in
Japan is to be noted. Catholic schools and colleges with funds fram abroad
are in a position to affer better conditions than Japanese schools and are
thus attracting a considerable number of pupils. It is needless to say that
this educational aotivity is not so much of a religious as of. a political nature.
The missionarics spare no effort to divert Japanese youth
from the struggle for tho domocratic reorganization of the cóuntry. The
Amorican church is also cndeavouring to strengthen its position. Early in
1947 the Council of tho United Church of America and Canada docided to
grant 10 million dollars for the building of an International Christian
University in Japan.
n/ich

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
"Teachers' Gazette" Nos.41-44, 1947.
8. (Cont'a.)
With the support of the American occupation authorities
the Japanese Governnent is doing its best to undernine the denddratio
movement ariong Japanese teachers.
The struggle of the teachers to i prove their material
conditions is carried on through their trade union organisations - the
All-Japanese Congress of Teachers' Unions and the Teachers' Federation.
The l1-Japanese Congress in March 1947 numbered over 320,000 menbers and
is one of the biggest unions in the country. Here the cormunist
influence is considerable. The Teachers' Federation is a trade union
organisation which strives not to "ix" trade union activities with the
political struggle. The main role in the struggle. of the Japanese
teachers belongs cf course to the All-Japanese Congress of Teachers'
Unions.
One of the cormonest methods used by reactionaries to rid
thenselves of undesirable elenents is to accuse then of syupathy with
the 'cornunists. The Minister of Education in the Yoshida cabinet openly
declared in March this year that the Governnent objects to the
participation in plitical activity of teachers. who are sympathetic with
the coinunist party, and that the Government objects to their ideological
influence over pupils. At the sane time he hyppcritically declared that
freedon of thought is granted to cverybody in Japan.
The struggle for the denocratisation of education in
Japan is one of tho most important links in the struggle for the
denocratisation of Japan and the maintenance of. peace and security in
the Far East. The merican occupation authorities have taken the
path of supporting Japanese reaction in its endeavour to preserve the
conservative basis of Japanese education. This once more proves the
general character of American policy which is directed towards turning
Japan into a jumping-off ground for Anerican expansion in the Pacific,
not only for strategic and economic, but also for ideological purposes.
"Teachers' Gazette" No.44,' 1947.
9.
CONGRESS OF.HIGHER SCHOOL AND SCIENTIFIC WORKERS' TRADE UNION
(Excerpts fron 1 col. article)
The task of educating the intelligentsia in the. spirit of
Soviet patriotisn was sharply stressed in a report by the chairman of the Union,
Danilov, and in the discussion after the report. A member of the Ukrainian
Acadeny of Sciences, Sokolovsky, and a number of others pointed out that
servility towards foreigners is still an obsession with sone of our scientists.
S.I. Vavilov, President of the All-Union cademy of Sciences,
spoke in detail on the state and problens of Soviet science. The volune of
scientific research work has increased fifty tines as compared with pre-
revolutionary tines. The role of men of soience has becgne exceptionally
great in the realisation of the grandiose plans for the reconstruction of
national econony. Vigorous collective scientific efforts are necessary
for the successful sclution of complicated and complex scientific problens.
Special care should be taken to safeguard .Soviet soientifin priority.
Any sign of servility towards bourgeois science which serves its capitalist
masters should be corbatted.
"Teachers' Gazette" No.44, 1947.
n/ev

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.97)
Joint Press Reading Servico, Mosoow
"NARODNOEOBRAZOVANIE"
("Publio Education")
No.9, Soptember, 1947.
Table of Contents
Leading tiele - The Hoad of a Dopartment of Publie
Eduoation has Great Obligations.
Organization of Publio Edueation
. Levshin - Notes on Pupils Graduating from Seeondaw
Schools.
Glagolev, 0. Pctukhova - The Problen of Improving Non-
Russian Schools.
V. Mikhailov - The Village Soviet and the Sohool.
A. Lfromov - Exporicnce of Surmer Work with Teaehers.
E. Mnoszon - Tho Formation of Conviotions and Habits of
Conscious Discipline among Pupils.
P. Timokhovioh - With Regard to Control.
On Current Thenes
"Why was Grishn Berezkin Abaent from Sohool ?"
"White Spots".
The Sohool Abroad
++(1) S. Maev - Visit to Tokio Univeraity.
Review and Bibliography
V. Klyushnikov - Big Defeets of a Mmmasino
on Method.
V. Protsenko - Experionoo of Crimeen Toachers.
Current Events
In tho Ministry of Education of tho RSPSR.
In the ∴cademyof Pedagogical Soiences of the RSFSR.
Article translated.
n /bmo

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
"Publio Education", No.9, 194.7.
A VISIT TO TOKIO UNIVERSITY
By S. Maev (Exoerpts from 8-page article)
The writer describes a visit he paid to the Tokio Imperial
University. He and his party entered through the main entry; ignoring
the sign "Off limits", with the aid of which the merican authorities
would like to hide Japan and their own activities in Japan from the
rest of the world.
The writer remarks particularly on the gloomy, dilapidated
and deserted air of the whole building.
The leoture-halls are' dark
and dust covers the benches.
In thc litcrary faculty, a. separate room is set aside for
each different language - English, Frenoh and German. Here thero aro
complete editions of the Western classios, many dictionaries, various
Journals and papers. Among the German books and journals are not a
few of a fascist nature, which are in free oirculation. On the shelves
with the French books are placed all the Slav works - literature in the
Russian, Polish, Serb and Bulgarian languages -a few dozen books in all.
They inoluded Polcvoi's "History of Russian Literature", the collooted
works of Lermontov, somc editions of the works of Pushkin and Nekrasov,
a book of Balmont's verses, and a pre-revolutionary textbook of Russian
grammar. The books and shelves were covered with dust: there was no
indioation that thc books were used. Indeed, in none of these rooms
was there a student to be scen.
The same neglccted air prevailed in the other faoultics;
there was a lack of the most essential cquipment in the soientifio
laboratories.
On visiting the library, the writer was surprised to find
comparatively few Russian books - in fact, only the works of Chekhov
in the Russian language. On enquiry, it was discovered that all the
other Russian books before the war had been removed. and taken to an
underground cellar, since the Japanese government was afraid of the
spread of the "Bolshevik infection."
The Russian books were still lying in heaps on the cellar
floor, whereas Hitler's "Mein Kampf" is to be bought at Tokio's
bookstalls.
Suoh is the "democratisation" which is being carried on
in Japan.
A talk with the Rector of the University threw some light
on the hard conditions of living of the students. Moreover, on the
completion of their coursc of study, there is no guarantee that they
will find enployment. The Rector.corplained of the spirit of unrest
prevailing among the students, owing to which "special control" was
necessary.
He said that many students were unable to "understand
the leotures", owins: to their backwardness caused by the lack of
study in wartime. In fact, however, the writer suggests that the
reason is rather that for many years the youth has been taught in a
militaristic spirit, has been encouraged not to think independently.
As a result the students are not informed as to the most clementary
subjects of the culture of the West, international relations, eto.
At the University, as in other parts of the country,
a struggle is going on between the new and progressive and the feudal,
conservative past. The best students wish to live in a new way,
and that is why "special control" over them is required.
n /bmo

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
"Public Education", No.9, 1947
1. (Cont'a)
The University has a Communist organization and Komsomol
organization. In Novenber 1946 there were 45 Communists and 40 Komsomol
members in the University - the advance guard of the best seotion of
students.
The Communists publish their paper "Truth", while the
Komsomol have a wall newspaper.
There exists a very flcurishing cirole for the study of
the Sovict Union. Many members of this study the Russian language and
read Russian newspapers and journals, wishing to know the truth about
the Soviet Union, which has so long been hidden from them.
A student of the law faculty said that among other
organisations there is a oircle for the study and promoting of friendship
with the USi. But it exists only nominally for since its foundation,
several months ngo, it has shown no signs of life.
The conditions of professors and teachers of the University
must be mentioned. According to "Stars and Stripes" the average yearly
inoome of city professors in Japan is 5931 yen, that is, 494 yen monthly.
How can a man with a family live when he receives a monthly salary
sufficient only to buy a dozen handkerchiefs ?
In analysing the past and searching for new ways of
life, the better part of the Japanese soholars are turning their eyes
to the Soviet Union, wherc science serves the people and the soientist
is surrounded with attention and solicitude.
Interest in the USSR among Japanese scientists is daily
growing. Despite the obstaoles created by Macirthur, Japanese scientists
are acquainting themselves with the achicvements of Soviet science and
are astounded by the successes aohieved by the Soviet Union.
"Public Education", No.9, 1947.
n/bmc

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.92)
Eax
1948
My dear General Noce!
894742/2-1848
I am enelosing a eopy of a letter reseivod from
Professor Robert King Hall of Teachers College, Columbis
University with regard to the alleged abridgment of re-
ligious freedom in Japan as the result of the review by
SCAi of a certain Japanese textbock entitled the "Mistory
of the heet".
It woulu be appreciated if SCAP's commente on the
assertions in Professor Hall's letter could be obtained in
oruer that the lepartment of State may make appropriate
reply.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Frank G. Wisner
CS/A
Deputy to the Assimtant Becretary
for Jcoupied Areas
Reclosurel
P..I shoule think unat
the uitrmte repy to
Copy of letter from
Proi. mil shoulu contait an
Profeseor Hall
extract fron the remarks
of recent date or your old
frrenu re ralowin.
Maj. Gen. Daniel Noce
Departmont of the Army
Wamhington 25, D. C.
f
ALO: FAS erJ
2
Cier  lh, N (see origina! blue copy
sttached)

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.97)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL NORVHEAERASMAN AFFAIRS
FOR JAPAN
APR141948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
No. 197
Tokyo, March 27, 1948.
UNCLASSIFIED
Subject:
Responsibility of Staff Sections of
2
General Headquarters, Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers and Far East
Command, for Scientific Education,
Research and Technology.
740.00117
894.42/3-2748
Contiol
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to
enclose five copies of staff memorandum No. 10
dated March 5, i948 issued by this Headquarters out-
lining the responsibilities assigned to the Economic
and Scientific, Civil Information and Education, and
Natural Resources Sections in connection with Japanese
education, educational organization, scientific re-
182 74.92
search and technology.
If the Department perceives no objection, this
Mission purposes henceforth to transmit all staff
memoranda of interest without covering despatch, unless
the subject matter appears to necessitate special treat-
ment.
FE -lene
FC-IDnEnclosure:
1948 APR 8 AM 10 21
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CS/A
0IE-lene
General Headquarters,
OCD-bme
SCAP and FEC Staff
RECEIVED
Memorandum No. 10 dated
LIAISON
DC/L
DelR
March 5, 1948.
18
Original and ozalid to the Department.
102.2/842
JDEdwards:cs
UNCLASSIFIED
APR 26 1948
FILED

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.96)
Powers and Far East Command, for Sei
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
 SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POW
AND
FAR EAST COMMAND
AG 323.361 (5 Mar 48)CS
APO 500
5 March 1048
STAFF MCMORANDUM )
NO.....
.10)
(SCAP & FEC)
ST FF RESPONSIBILITY FOR SCIEITIFIC EDUCATION,
RESEARCH AND TECINOLOGY
Primary staff rosponsibility, intra-staff coordination and liaison
with Japancse Government agencies on policios dealing with Japanese
education, educational organization, scientific research and technology
are assigned as follows:
a. To the Economic and Scientific Section for the coordination
of matters dealirg with research and technclogy affecting more than
one section, and or those matters connected with science and research
in the natural'sciences not specifically assigned to other staff seotions.
b. To the Civil Information and Education Section for the coordi-
nation of matters dealing with education and for all matters (research
includod) dealing with the social and cultural sciences.
c. To the Hatural Resources Section, Public Health and Welfare
Section, Civil Comnunications Section, Engineer Section and Civil Trans-
portation Section for matters (education and research) dealing with
those sciences specifically relating to their respective fields.
BY COLMANL OF GENERAL MaCARTHUR:
PAUL J. MUELLER,
Major General, General Staff Corps,
Anhery
OFFICIAL:
Chief of Staff.
R. M. LEVY,
Colonel, AGD,
Adjutant General.

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.96)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
No. 202
Tokyo, March 29, 1948.
UNCLASSIFIED
APR 9 1948
Subject:
Roster and tatistics of Japanese
Educational Institutions, April and
November 1946.
The Actin Political dviser has the honor to
forward as accom animents to this despatch, two
copies each of Parts 2, 3, 5, and 41 of a special
report of the Jivil Information apfeme Commander
ection, General head
for the Allied Powers, entitled "Roster and Statistics
of Japanese ducational Institutions, April and
November 194o". These accompaniments are a portion of
123
TO.
the entire 17 rarts of this report, which will ulti-
mately cover all the prefectures of Japan and which is
expected to be completed by July 1948. Parts 2, 3, 5,
and 41 cover, respectively, the prefectures of Akita,
Aomori, Ehime, and Tottori and are the only parts
completed to date.
ruture additions to this reort will be forwarded
070
to the Jepartment, witn references to this despatch,
as they become available.
Accompaniments:
1948 n AM 10 51
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Two copies each of Roster
and tatistics of Japanese
RECEIVED
Educational Institutions,
April and November 1946,
18
CS/A
Parts 2,3,5, and 41.
Cri inal and ozalid to the Department.
JAIN
842
JDEdwards:cs
DeT
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.97)
Acdompaniment to Despatch No. 202 dated
March 29, 1948 from the Office of the
United States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, entitled "Roster and Statistics of
Japanese Educational Institutions, April
and November 1946".
Unclassif ed
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
5
APR 7 1948
DPLOMATIC POUCH AND MAIL SECTION
(buckyfiles)

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT DETACH THIS FORM
894.42/3-2948
DESP.202 FROM TOKYO
FILE NO.
R E C O R D C O P Y
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A DESPATCH HAS BEEN DESIG-
NATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL ACTION
COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS BY
THE ACTION OFFICE.
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
11946
DILED
FAP

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.96)
Tokya, March 29, 1968
QICLASSIVIED
oup
REOID
APR.8
ACTION
OIE-enc
Subject:
Roster aad Statistics of Japanese
INFO
Educational Institutions, April and
DCR
November 1946.
FE
OFD
0
The Acting Pelitical Adviser has the honor to
forward as acoompaniments to this despatch, two
copies each of Parts 2, 3, 5, and 41 of a special
report of the Civil Information and Education
Section, Gemeral Beadquarters, Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers, entitled "Roster and Statistics
of Japanese Educational Institutions, April and
November 1946". These accompaniments are a portion of
the entire 47 parts of this report, which will ulti-
mately cover all the prefectures of Japan and which is
expected to be completed by July 1948. Parts 2, 3. 5,
and 41 cover, respectively, the prefectures of Akita,
Aomori, Ehime, and Tottori and are the only parts
completed to date.
Future additions tc this report will be forwarded
to the Department, with references to this despatch,
as they become available.
Accompaniments:
Two coples each of Roster
and Statistics of Japanese
Edueutional Institutions,
April and November 1946,
Parts 2,3,5, and 41.
Original and osalid to the Department.
842
JDEdwards:cs
UNGLASSIFIED

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.95)
W.894.42
3-2948
G D  
SULRR COL.NDR FOR THE LLLD 1O RS
Civil Information nd ducation Suction
Analysis and escarch Division
ROSTER
AND STATISTICS
OF
JAPANESE
EDUCATIONAL
INSTITUTIONS
April end November 1946
Port 2
AKITA
PREFRCTURE
A Special Report in 47 Parts Frepared by
Education Research
30 January 1948
n-302--4-26-2

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.96)
GILRJ. HTDOURT RS
SUEREE COLE NDER FOR THE ILID O RS
Civil Inform tion end ducation Section
nalysis and escarch Division
SPECL'L EPORT
SRÍAL NU BR
-302-E--26-2
30 Jenuary 1948
TITLE
Roster of Japenese ucational Institutions end Statistical Tubles - Part 2, .kita Prefecturo
SUBJCT
Roster of Japanese educational institutions by prefecturc, level, type, and control jurisdiction,
showin date of foundation, enrollmant, and nunber of teachers, vith sumar statistical tablos.
PRP.RD BY
ducation Rescarch
DATES OF STUDY 16 July 1947 to 10 December 1947
CONTENTS
Sumary of the Educational Institutions in kita Prefecture
Part One
Sunmary Tables of Japanese lucational Institutions Shoring Number end Pcrcent of Studcnts, Teachors,
and Schools.
Pagc
Table 1 - Jumber of ducational Institutions by Level end Tpe
2
Table 2 - Percent of ducational Institutions by Level and Type
34567
Tablc 3 - Nuiber of Educational Institutions by Control end Level
Table 4 - Percent of Educationcl Institutions by Control ond Lovcl
Table 5 - Number of Cucational Institutions by Lovel end Control
Table 6 - Percent of ducational Institutions by Level and Control

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.98)
Part Two
Summary Tables of Japanese ducational Institutions Shoving Humber of Students, Teachers, end Schools
by Jurisdiction
Page
Table 7 - Schools under the Jurisdiction of the l inistry of ucation by Level and Type
8
Table 8 - Schools under Prefcctural Jurisdiction by Level and Type
9
Table 9 - Schools under Hunicipal Jurisdiction by Level and Type
11
Table 10 - Schools under Village or Tovm Jurisdiction by Level nd Type
12
Table 11 - Schools under Trivete Jurisdiction by Level and Type
13
Table 12 - Schools under Jurisciction of  inistries Other than the : inistry of ducation
by Level and Tpe
14
Part Three Roster of Japanose lucctional Institutions by Control Jurisdiction - ccordin to Level and Type:
Showing Number of Stulents, Tenchers, and Schools
Page
Page
Schools under Ministry of ducation
15
Village Schools
31
Higher Education
15
Secondary ducation
31
Colleges
15
Girls' High Schools
31
Nornal Schools
15
Youth Schools
32
Elementary Education
51
Prefectural Schools
17
EHementary Schools
51
Higher ducation
17
767676 7
Colleges
17
Private Schools
Secondary Education
17
Secondary ducation
Vocational Schools
17
Vocational Schools
Middle Schools
21
Girlst High Schools
Girls' High Schools
22
Youth Schools
77
Special Schools
23
Elementary Education
79
Kindergartens
79
Tunicipal Schools
24
Secondary ducation
24
Schools under linistries Other than Ministry
Vocational Schools
24
of Education
80
liddle Schools
24
Secondary Education
80
Girls' High Schools
25
Vocational Schools under Honc linistry
80
Youth Schools
25
Youth Schools under Ministries
Mementary Education
28
of Corrunications and Transportation
S1
Elcmentary Schools
20
Special Schools under inistry of elfare
81

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.98)
INTRODUCTION
PURPOSE
There are two sumary statistical soctions. Part Ono pro-
sents in six tables sunmary muncrical and-percent distribution
This study was made to fill a critical need in the field
data arran ed as follows: level by types, control by level, and
of Japanese educetion. The statistical procedures and products
level by contrel. Part Two consists of six tables which surma-
of record-keeping in Japan have been entirely inadequate. The
rize data by control jurisdiction according to lovel and typo.
Ministry of Education meintains no records of schools not under
its direct control, with the result that for informtion con-
The "Roster of Japanese Educational Institutions" consti-
cerning nearly all schools of the clenontary end sccondary lev-
tutes Part Thrcc of this report. It is prinarily a list of all
els, and many institutions of the higher educctional level, one
institutions which are a part of the regular Japaneso educa-
must depend upon the prefecture. Even at that source there are
tional systen, w th sinificent data for cach. The project is,
no complcte records. In alnost any area of educction, one must
in reality, an act of pioncering. In the course of its devel-
collect data fron the original sources. One serious gep in the
opment, scattered and, in largo degree, hitherto unclassified
records has been the lack of a list of all educationnl institu-
facts have becn assenblcd and nade availablo in an casily ro-
tions in Japan. It is this major void which this study is in-
forable form. For the first time in the history of Japanoso
tended to fill.
cducation, there is a composito list of all of the more than
40,000 cducational institutions in Japan, a list which records
for cach its name, date of foundation, address,1 enrollment by
SCOPD
sax and by totals? and the teachin force by sex, by full-timo
The'results of this study were originally set up as two
projects, a "Roster of Japaneso Educational Institutions" in 46
1. The addresses of separato institutions supplied in this ro-
prefoctural reports, end "Statistical Tables for Japanese du-
port will be more  intelligible if the recder remembers that
cational Institutions" in 46 prefecturel roports, with a sumna-
"cho" means "street," "mura" means "village" or "hanlet," "ma
rizing roport for the wholo of Japan: A little trial use of
chi," means "town" or "snll city," "gun" means "county"orrdis
the first finished reports indicated, however, that the two
trict," and "ken" means "prefccture."
series would be more effective if combined. For that reason,
2. The onrollment figures are not those of actual attondanne
the two reports for cach prefecture have been consolidated into
on 30 April and 30 November 1946 respectively, but thoso of on
ono roport.
rollment on the schcol records on those datos.

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.98)
or pert-tinc classification,3 and by totals.
ated. Sone of the group nanes mi ht be almost meaningloss with-
out cxplanation. They arc not unifornily definod in sone cases
The roster is arrenged according to prefecture, control
oven by the Japanose.
jurisdietion,and school lovel. Therc are totals for every sub-
heading, and subheading and grand totals for cvery nain head-
There aro three control jurisdictions in the Japanose edu-
ing and for every prefecture. Grand totals have been worked
cational systen: (1) national, which includes both "Govornnent"
out on two bases of organization, that of control jurisdiction
or Linistry of Education control, and that of other ministries
and that of school level.
which conduct specialized cducational institutions; (2) "public
control," or thet exorcised by any level of governnent below
The two dates chosen as focal points in the collcction of
the central national level, such' as that by the profocture
data, .30 April 1946 and 30 November 1946, were selected at the
(ken), netropolis (to), city (shi), towm (mchi), or villago
request of Education Division, Civil Inforriation end Education
(rura); and (3) "private control." Schools of the three educa-
Section, for purposes of comporison regarding dev lopnonts in
tion'l levels fall within those threc control jurisdictions.
the educational program.
The Ministry of Xucation has excrcised extensive powers
Since this scries of reports is based upon deta collected
in cducational matters at all levels and over schools under all
bofore changes in the organization of the cducational systen
jurisdictions except those under other ministrics. Throuch the
were effected, the categorics used are thosc into which schools
use of standardized taxts and curricula, and through cirectives
fell before the 6-3-3-4 systen was inaugurated in Japan,4 and
of many sorts for cvery purpose, it has cxerted trenendous con-
the terns employed are translations of the Japaneso nononcla-
trol over cven thosc schools supposedly under other jurisdic-
ture. The terminology used to indicatc the broad levels of cd-
tions. in unusual fact concernin this cspect of Japanose odu-
ucation are those currently used in the United States: clonen-
cation is that control cocs not includo financial support or
tery, including kindergarten, prinery, and ramer rades; sec-
appointing power for profectural and local schools. Moncy for
ondary, including 'high schoolo and preparatcry ochools; and
the maintenanco of schools is appropricted by the national Gov-
higher, including schools of junior collogo, college, nd uni-
crnnent, and for all practical effects uch of the control ox-
versity level.
creised over school natters is in the hands of the linistrios
Within cach of those broad levels, however, terminoloy is
not so simplc or so clear. Thc various types of schools in Ja-
4. As rapidly as possible the shinsei chu pakko (lower socond-
pan are nunerous, over-lapping, and confusing to the uniniti-
dary school) and shinsei koto Enkko (upper socondary sdhool)
syston is being established, but practical difficulties have
nade it inpossible to offoct a conpleto change-over. The stand-
3. Statistics for both full-tine and part-tino teachers are
ardization of institutions on the higher education lovel as
given. Where there are both types in a school, the sccond fig-
four-year de rec ranting institutions is also in progross, but
ure in the colunn, following the dash, represents the number of
the pace of this dovelopnent, likovise, is linited by practical
part-time toachers.
difficultics.
ii

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.94)
of Finance and of Hone Affeirs, who obtain their power through
i.e: prefectural, unicipel, tom, or village govorniont
control of the national buaget and of Civil Service appoint-
Japin in 1946, public control covered a much wider ran
ment respoctively. Within the linitations irposed by the powers
school lovels thon did the inistry of ducation control
of these two ministries, tho Hinistry of Education has cnjoyed
the hi her education level were universities, collegos, hisho
a high degree of centralized contrel. Its direct control, hov-
schools, norul schools, and  few spccial schools, all of tho
over, is epplied only to a linited group of institutions.
types wrier the "Cireet contrel" of the inistry of ucation,
with the excoption of Impcrial universities. In addition, pube
In 1946 the Ministry of Yucation excrcised complete or
licly cuntrolled institutions included clso schools of the soo-
"dircct" control over only certain scheols,mninly on the hi her
on'ary me clcmentar lovels. Jitsuyo cekko (vocational
oducation lovel. These included the seven Teikeku irigaku (Ir-
sch cols) were nunerous and vried. Chuo nkko (niddle schools)
perial universities), which enjoyed generally accepted prestige
were schools of high school level est blished for boys. Koto
es superior institutions for cdvanced leaminc, n the ci aku
io alto (girls' hig: schools) wore established for girls as
(ordinary universities), which wro not grantel such high favers
substitutes for miccle schools. Seinen mkko (youth schools)
cither in personnel or equipment, en? consccuently vero not ac-
wore institutions cetcblishe? to toke care of the further odu-
corded cemparablo estoon. These twe types of umivereities vere
cation of stucents vho a finished clumentary training but who
anclogous roughly to both senior coll, es  aversities in
were un ble to attcnd re ular scihuols of the secondary lovel.
the United States. Other typee of seh ols un r the completo
Oftun the were ni ht schools. Sho akko (clonontary schoole
control of the ombusho were sormon  kko (colle es), mhich
fter 1941 c 1led kckmin  kko, or national schools) and
usually did not ont dogrees, ne, in many ys, correspended
yochien (kinier mrtens) require no special uxplanation.
to junior colloges, and koto mliko (hi her cchools), which were
even more unclassifiable, bein a kins cf cross betwcen pre-
Private centrel meant substentielly whtat the term meens in
paratery schools ond junior colle us. lse under Linistry of
the states, control cxercised by on individuel or roup of in-
Education jurisdiction were koto ghihen mlko (hi her nonmnl
dividuals inxdopendently of overnment on eny level, with sup-
schoels), or a level sinilar to that of suimn sekke, but vith
port co in. fre nonpevermentel ccurces. Une chief differanco.
nore specialized purposes, bein: established ex ressly fer the
however, butween beth public end private schools in Japen and
purpose of training teachers, and shihan mkio (nornl schools),
public and private schools in the States, was that in Japan tho
et first censidered of secondery level, but in 1935 placet cn
central Gov rm entel rency for education (the Ministry of Edu-
the higher cducation level. The course of study for shilmn
cation) exerted uch : tore power over the :nnage iont of schools
gakko was three years in length, wherees that for the higher
tian dees the Federal Geverment in tho United States, a powor
norul schools wms four years. Sone specicl schouls, such as
which was Coscribed as "incirect control." The scope of jurle
no cakko (schools for the blind), roa gakko (schools for the
diction for privetely controlled institutions was idantioal
deaf and deaf mates), and noa gakko (schools for the blind and
with that of public jurisdiction, including institutions on all
mute), were under Pinistry of Education jurisdiction.
levels ant of all types cxcept Teikoku daigaku (Luperial Unt
versities). The chart on pages iv to vi indicatos by lovol the
Public control covered all institutions conducted and roe.
type of schools under each of the three control jurisdiction
ulatod. by governnental units lower then the national lcvel,
in 1946.
iii

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.95)
JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS BY CONTROL JURISDICTION, LEVIL, AND TYPE
in 1946
1.
Imperial Universities (Teikoku Daighku)
I.
NATIONAL CONTROL
2.
Universities (Daigaku)
3.
Colleges (Saron Gekko)
Higher Scheols (Koto Gakke)
Higher Nomml Sclicols (Wote Shihan Coldto)
a. Liddle Schcols .ttached (Chu Gakko)
b. Elorentary Schcols Attached (Sho Gelko)
6. Higher Nomal Schools for Momen (Joshi Koto Shihan Geldko)
Higher Education
Girls' High Schools Attached (Koto Jo Galdko)
b. Mesentary Schcels Attached (Sho Gakke)
A. Ministry of Educction
c. Kinlergartens ittached (Yochien)
(Government
7. Hormel Schools (Shihan Galdko)
Institutions)
 Mhcontam Schcols Attached (Sho Ghidko)
b. Kindergertens Attached (Yochion)
c. Youth Schools ttached (Seinen Gekko)
1.
Schools for the Blind (Ho Gakko)
2:
Schools for the Denf and Denf- ute (Non Galko)
B. Specinl Schools
13.
Schools for the Blind on? Deaf-lute (Hos Gakke)
1:
Colleges (Suaron Gakko)
A. Higher Education
2. Other types
1.
Vocational Schoels (Jitsugyo Grkko)
a. gricultural Schools (He Gakko)
b. other types
B. Secondary Eucation
2.
Youth Schools (Sinen Gakko)
B. Other Ministries
3.
Other types
(1. Youth Schools (Seinen Galko)
C. Special Schools
12. Other types
{1. EManentery Scheols (Sho Gelko)
D. Menentary Education
(Peers' School only)
iv

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.96)
II. PUBLIC CONTROL
1.
Universities (Daigaku)
Higher Education
2.
Colleges (Sermon Galko)
3.
Higher Schools (Koto Galko)
1.
Vocational Schools (Jitsugyo Gakko)
 gricultural Schcols (No G-kko)
B. Seconcry Education
b. Other types
2. icdle Schools (Chu Gakko)
. Prefectural Governrients
Girls' High Schools (Koto Jo Gakko)
1.
Schools fer the Blind (Yo Gakko)
2.
Schools for the Deaf nd Deaf-liute (Ror. Geldko)
C. Special Schools
3.
Schools for the Blind and Deaf-Tute (Ho: Gakko)
4.
other types
D. enentary Schools
1.
Elementary ¿chcols (Sho Gakko)
(Hctropolitan Gov-
ernment only)
(1. Universities (Daigaku)
Higher Education
2. Colleges (Samen Gakko)
1.
Vocational Schools (Jitsugyo Gakko)
2.
iddle Schools (Chu Gakko)
B. Secondary Education
3.
Girls' Hih Schools (Koto Jo Galko)
B. Eunicipal Governnents
4.
Youth Schools (Seincn Gekko)
11.
Manentary Schools (She Galko)
C. Elcmentary Education
(2. Kindergertens (Yochion)
[1. Verious types
D. Special Schools
1.
Vocational Schools (Jitsugyo Gakko)
idcle Schools (Chu Gakko)
Secondery Education
3:
Girls' High Schools (Koto Jo Gakko)
4.
Youth Schools (Scinen Gakko)
1:
Mementary Schools (Sho Gakko)
C. Village or Town
Governnents
B. Munentary Cucation
2.
Findergartens (Yochien)
(1. Various types
C. Special Schools

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.94)
III. PRIVATE CONTROL
1.
Universities (Daigcku)
Higher Educrtion
2.
Colleges (Sammon Galdko)
3.
Higher Scheols (Keto Galko)
1.
Vocational Schools (Jitsugo Gaiko)
2.
Makle Schools (Chu Galdke)
B. Secondary Education
3.
Girls' Hi h chools (Koto Jo Gakko)
4
Youth Schools (Scinen Gakko)
A. Frivate Control
1.
Lementary Schcols (Sho Galcke)
C. Hamentary Education
2.
Kindergertens (Yochien)
1.
Sclcols fer the Blind (Lo Gokko)
2.
Sehools for the beaf and Deaf-ute (Roa Gakko)
D. Special Scheols
3.
Schools fer the Elind end Deaf-ute (Iise Gekko)
4.
Other types
SCURCE OF DATA
EV DITION OF 
The Pinistry of Ecucation, in serving as tne data-colicct-
Taroughout the preparction of this report, workers in du-
ing agent, has playod an invaluable part in this work. In the
cation lesearch vero in constant touch with I inistry of luca-
sumer of 1946 Vinistry of Education officirls ond Civil Infor-
tion officiels to check the matcrials as they were received
nation and Education Soction reserrchers evolved a fon which
fron the individual schocls. Figures were carefully checked
served as the basis for securin the desired informetion.
and scrutinizcd. s discrepancies or ambiguitics in date wero
Through the Yinistry of Cucation, prefectural cducation divi-
liscctered ther wore rectified and clerified insofer as check-
sions, and local cducation officicis, the data were greduclly
ing made correction possible. hile a high degreo of accuracy
sccured fron the individual schools. Not cnough cen be said in
was thus achieved, the matorials are still subject to the lim-
praise of the patisnce and cnthusirsn of the inistry in their
itations inherent in Japancse statistics and in the roporting
cooperation vith Civil Infomution and Xlucrtion Section to
fron individual schools.
nake this an accurate and effective study.
vi

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.98)
SULLRY OF DUC TIO L DNSTITUTIONS  XIT. REFECTURE
1946
Number of Institutions
Level and Type
Control
Sex
of Institution
linistry
Prefec-
uni-
Village
Total
cle
Female
Good
Educet.
Other
tural
cipal
or Town
Private
Higher Institutions
Colleges
1
1
1
1
2:
Normal Schools
2
112
一
2
Total Higher
3
1
1
4
Secondary Institutions
Boys' Middle Schools
2
13
1
1
11
4
2
17
Girls' High Schools
C
1
9
9
Vocational Schools
9
1
3
1
14
14
Youth Schools
12
255
10
1
264
275
Total Secondary
30
15
250
30
19
256
315
Elenentary Institutions
Elementary Schools
24
330
3
3
348
354
Elem. Sch. ttached*
2
2
2
Kindergartens
19
19
19
Total Eementary
2
24
330
19
3
3
369
375
Special Institutions
Blind and Deaf Yutes
1
1
iscellaneous Schools
1
2
Total Special
Total Institutions
5
7
32
39
508
25
36
23
637
696
Elementary Schools attached to Normal Schools

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.99)
AKITA PREFECTURE
Tablo 1 - Number of Educational Institutions by Level and Type
Number of
ENROLIMENT#
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
Institutions
1684
30 . 46
M
F
135
T
1819
1646
30 Nov. 46
M
F
163
1809 .55-14
T :
M
4
F
T
73
65-18
N
5
F
T
88
M
1
1
F
Coed.
Colleges
Higher Schools
Higher Normal Sch. for Jonen
Normal Schools
Higher Normel Schocls
2263
579
307
442
2705
886
2400
754
781
618
1372
3131
120-18
65-4
9
5
147
74
64-5
129-23
10
5
162
74
1
2
1
1
1
2
4
Secondery Educttion
Middle Schools
Vocational Schools
Girls' High Schools
Youth Schools
Total-Higher Education
56572
42263
7751
6551
31587
43222
9327
2308
73855
99792
9327-
8859
7751
57102
42644
6755
7703
29746
41274
2310
9218
72390
98376
9065
9218
7703
1493-1167 617-392
355
217-40
162-21
759-1106 463-381
41-5
113-6
401
257
302
2709
3669
1524-1183 616-393 3716
351
220-44
169-25
784-1114 466-383 2747
109-5
41-5
308
397
264
11
10
30
9
14
19
4.
1
264
266
2
275
315
17
14
9
Total-Secondary
Elementery Education
Educetion
423
895
477
429
906
22
10
32
24
10
34
2
2
Elementary Sch. ttached 472
2699
5433
2847
2675
5522
3
3
348
354
to Normel Schools
118350
115267
233617
117944
114857 232801
2734
Elementary Schools
Kindergartens ttached
to Normal Schools
1459
1529
2988
1326
1491
2817
27
85
112
27
-86
113
19
Special Schools
Kindergartens
Totao - Elementary
Education
120281
117219
65
237500
153
119747
88
116777 236524
65
153
2783
.10
2794
6
5577
16
2898
10
2771
6
5669
16
3
.3
369375
Sch. for Blind & Deaf-rute 88
Miscellaneous Schools
Juvenile Correction Sch.
106
65
171
18
104
16
65 169
16
12
2
6
18
2
12
2
6
18
2
1
1
Grand Total
Total-Special Schools
179220
160948
.340168
179.353
158,897
338,250
4408-1185
3426~392
9,411 4563-1206
3403-393
9.565
36
23
#These figures are not those for actual attendance on these detes, but those for enrollment on the school records as of th
I The number of both full and part-time teachers is indicated in this report. Where there are two numbers entered in the same on
separated by a hyphen. the second figure indicates the number of part-time teachers
-2-

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.99)
AKITA PREFECTURE
Table 2. Percent of Educational Institutions by Level and Type
ENROLLIMENT
#
TEACHERS
x
Number of
30 April 1946
30 November 1946
30 April 1946
30 November 1946
Institutions
Higher Education
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
Colleges
74
31
68
68
21
57
46-77
44
49
50-78
50
54
50
100
50
Normal Schools
26
69
32
32
79
43
54-23
56
51
50-22
50
46
50
50
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100
100
100
100-100
100
100
100
100
Percent of Gr. Tot. in Higher Ed.
1.1
0.2
1
1
0.5
1
2.7-1.5
1011
2
2.3-2
0.3
2
Secondary Education
Vocational Schools
11
5
9
12
5
9
24
6-2
11
23
7-1
11
37
21
Middle Schools
14
7
13
9
13-4
6
14-4
7
36
Girls' High Schools
22
10
23
10
11-1
18-2
8
11-2
18--1
8
74
Youth Schools
75
73
74
75
72
74
52-95
76-96
75
52-94
75-98
74
33
5
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100
100
Percent of Gr. Tot. in Secondary Ed.
31
26.7
29
32
26.3
29
34-98.4
72-100
38.7
34-98
18.-100
38
83
83
Elementary Education
Elementary Schools Attached to
Normal Schools
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.8
0.4
0.6
0.8
0.4
0.6
0.5
Klementary Schools
98
98
98
98
98
98
98
97
97
98
96
97
100
100
94=294.4
Kindergartens
1.6
1.6
1.6
1.6
1.6
1.6
1.2
2.6
2.4
1.2
3.6
2.4
5.2
5.1
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
Percent of Grand Total in Elementary
Sducation
67
73
69
66.9
73.15
69
63
82.1
59.1
63
81
59
School
Special Schools
Schools for Blind & Deaf-Mute
83
100
89
84
100
91
83
100
89
83
100
89
100
100
Juvenile Correction Schools
17
11
16
9
17
11
17
11
100
50
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
Percent of Grand Total in Special
tator
Schools
0.9
0.05
0.1
0.1
0.05
3
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.3
3
Grand Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100-100
100-100 100
100
See footnote Table 1.
X See footnote Table 1.
3-

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.99)
AKITA PREFECTORE
Table 3 - Nurber of Educetionel Institutions by Control end Level
ENROLLMENT
TELCHERS
Number of
30 pril 1946
30 November 1946
30 pril 1946
30 November 1946
Institutions
I. Ministry of Education
M
F
T
M.
T
M
p
T
M
F
T
M
F
Co-ed. T
Higher Education
2263
307
2570
2400
618
3018
107-14 5
126
116-15.5.
136
2
1
Blemontary Education
472
423
895
477
429
906
22
10
32
24
10
34
0
22
(Lttached to Normel Schools)
Total
2735
730
3465
2877
1047
3924
129-14 15
158
140-15 15
170
3
2 5
Prefectural Schools
Higher Education
135
135
163
163
13-4
21
13-8
5
26
1
1
Secondary Education
12951
8642
21593
12869
8559
21428
628-58 101-10 797
637-65 97-9
808
16
12
2
30
Special.Schools
88
65
153
88
65
153
10
6
16
10
6
16
1
1
Total
13039
8842
21881
12957
8787
21744
650-62 111-10 834
660-73 108-9
850
16
12
3
32
II.Municipal Schools
Secondary Education
1803
1416
3219
2419
1673
4092
89-75 28-14
206
94-73
28-12
207
3
1
11
15
Elementary Education
11780
11935
23715
12073
12082
24155
239
289
528
259
282
541
24
24
Total
13583
13351
26934
14492
13755
282
320-75 317-14 734
353-73 310-12
748
3
1
35
39
Iv. Village or Town Schools
Secondary Lducation
39257
30036
70093
39240
28754
67994
685-
438-
2516
708-
442-
2560
3
4
251 258
1026
367
1038
372
Elementary Education
106570 103332 209902
105871. 102775 208646
2495
2410
4905
2588
2393
4981
3
3
324330
Total
145827 134168 279995
145111 131529 276640
3180-
2848-
7421
3296-
2835-
7541
6
1
575588
1026
367
1038
372
Private Schools
Secondary Education
488
2328
2816
449
2288
2737
46-8
50-1
105
44-7
49
100
2
2
Elementary Education
1459
1529.
2988
1326
1491
2817
27
85
112
27
86
113
Total
1947
3857
5804
1775
3779
5554
73-8
135-1
217
71-7
135
213
:2
VI. Schools under Jurisdiction of
Ministries Other than Ministry of Education
Secondary Education
2071
2071
2125
2125
45
45
41
41
6
Special Schools
18
18
16
16
2
2
2
2
1
Total
2089
2089
2141
2141
47
47
43
43
7
Grand Total
160948 340168
179353 158897 338250 4408-
3426-
9411
4563-
3403
9565 .36 23
179220
1185
392
1206
393
# These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these date
I The number of both full and part-time teachers is indicated in this report. Where there are two numbers entered in the seme colu
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the number of part-time teachers.

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.99)
LKITA PREFECTURE
Table 4. Percent of Educetional Institutions by Control and Level
ENROLIAENT #
TELCHERS X
Number of  a
30 4pril 1946 -
30 November 1946
30 4pril 1946
30 November 1946
Institutions
I. Ministry of Education
Total
Elementary Education(Attchd to NomnSch) 17
Higher Education
M
83
100
2
F
58
42
100
1
T
75
25
100
1
83
17
100
1.6
59
F
41
100
1
T
77
100 100-100
1.1 3-1.4
23
83-100
17-0
M
67
0.4
33
100
F
80
1.7
20
100
T
17-0
3-1
83-100
100-100 100
M
33
67
0.4
F
2
80
20
100
T
M
67
8.2
33
100
F
Co-ed.T
50
50
0.3
100
60
, Percent of Grand Total in Min. of Ed.
II. Prefecturel Schools
Total
Percent of Grand Total in Pref. Schools
Higher Educetion
Secondary Education
Special Schools
99.4
0.6
100
7
97.8
5
0.7
100
1.5
0.6
0.7
98.7
100
6
0.6
7.2
99.4
100
1.9
97.3
5
0.8
C01
98.5 96.5-935
0.7
100
6
0.8 2-6.5
1.5-0
100.-100
15-5
5.4-0.2
91-100
100-100 100
3-2.59
3.6-0
3
95
2-11
96.5..89 90.100
100.100 100-100 100
14-6
1.5-0
5-0
5-0
3.2-2
3
8.8
2
95
43.4 56.6
100
100
8
92
100
67
33
100
III. Municipal Schools
Total
Percent of Grand Total in un. Schools
Secondary Education
Elementary Education
13
87
7
100
10
90
8
100
12
88
7
100
8
17
83
100
12
88
100
9
14.4 27-100
100
85.6 73-3
8.3
7.5.5
100-100
9-100
100-100 100
9-3.5
91-0
28
72
8
73-
27200
100 100 100-100 100
8-6
9-100
9-3
91-0
27.6
72.4
8
8.2
100
100
100
100
404
100100
91
IV. Village or Town Schools
Total
Percent of Gr. Total in Vill./Town Schls.
Secondary Education
Elementary Education
27
73、
81
100
23
77
84
100
25
75
83
100
27
73
81
100
22
78
83
100
25
75
82
100
22-100
78-0
100-100
72-86
83.6-93.7 79
15-100
85-0
100-100 100
34
66
21.5-100 15.6-100 34
73-86
100-100
78.5-0
84.4-0
100-100 100
83.4-95.78.8
66
50
50
16.3 30
100
100
57
43
100100
56.336
43.7 44
90484
Percent of Grand Total in Private Schools
V. Private Schools
Total
Elementary Education
Secondary Education
25.5
74.5
100
1
40
2
60
100
51.4
48.6
2
100
25.3
74.7
1
100
2
60
40
100
51
49
100
1.6
63-100
37-0
1.5-0.8
100
37-1C0
63-0
100-100 100
4-0.3
52
2.3
48
62-100
38-0
100-100
1-1
36.3-0
63.7-0
100-100
4
53
47
2
100
54 8.839
100 100100100
100
100102
9011096
VI. Schools undor Othor Ministries
Percent of Gr. Tot. in Sch. under Other Min. 2
Total
Grand Total
Secondary Education
Special Schools
99
100
1
100
100
99
1
100
1
100
99
1
100
1.2
100
100
99
1
100
1
100
96
100
4
1
100-100
100-100 100
96.
100
0.5
4
95
5
100
100-100
1
100-100 100
5
100
95
0.4
85.7
14.3
100
# See Table 2.
X See Table 2.
-5-

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.98)
AKITA PREFECTURE
Table 5 - Number of Educational Institutions by Level and Control
ENRCLIMENT#
TEACHERSX
Number of
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
Institutions
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
Coed
Higher Education
Total
2,263
442
2,705
2,400
781
3,181
120-18
10
147
129-23
10
162
2
1
Ministry of Education
2,263
307
2,570
2,400
618
3,018
107-14
5
126
116-15
5
136
2
1
302
Prefectural Schools
135
135
163
163
13-4
4
21
13-8
5
26
1
Secondary Education
Total
56,570
43,222
99.702
57,102
41,274
98.376
1403-1167
617-392
.659
1524-1183
616-300
3.715
30
19
266
315
Prefectural
12,051
8,642
21,503
12,969
8,559
21,428
628-58
101-10
797
637-5
97-9
16
12
Municipal
1,803
1,416
3,219
2,419
1,673
4.092
90-75
28-14
206
04-73
28-12
207
3
1
11
15
Village or Town Schools
39,257
30,836
70.093
39,240
28.754
67.094
685-1026
438-367
2516
708-1038 442-372 2.560
3
4
251
2581
Private
488
2,328
2,816
449
2,288
2,737
46-8
50-1
105
44-7
49
100
2
2
2
6A
Schools under Ministriesi
2,071
2,071
2,125
2,125
45
45
41
41
6
6.工X
other than Ministry of
Education
Elementary Education
Total
120,281
117,219
227,500
110,747
116,777
236,524
2,780
2,794
5.577
998
2,771
5.669
3
3
269375
Ministry of Education
472
423
477
420
606
22
10
32
24
10
34
a
2
Municipal
11,780
11.935
23.715
12,073
12,082
24,155
239
289
528
259
282
541
24
24
Village or Tom Schools
106,570
103,332
200.902
105.871
102,775
208,646
2,495
2,410
4,905
2,588
2,393
4,981
3
3
324
330
Privete
1.459
1,529
2,988
1.326
1,491
2,817
27
85
112
27
86
113
19
19
Special Schools
Total
106
65
171
104
65
169
12
6
18
12
6
18
Prefectural
88
65
153
88
65
153
10
6
16
10
2
16
Schools under Ministries
18
18
16
16
2
2
2
2
other than Ministry of
Education
and Total
179,220 160.948 340,168
179,353 158,897 338,250
4408-1183 3426-392 94114563-1206 3403-393 9565
These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates. but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
The number of both full and part-time teachers is indicated in this report. Where there are two numbers entered in the same oolumi
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the number of part-time teachers.
-6-

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.98)
Table 6 - Percent of Educeticnal Institutions by Level end Control
4KITA PREFECTURE
ENROLIMENT#
TEACHERSX
Number of
30 pr. 46
M
F
T
M
0 Nov. 46
F
T
30 Apr. 46
M
F
T
M
30 Nov. 46
F
T
M
Institutions
F
Coed.
T
Higher Educetion
Total
Ministry of Educetion
Prefecturel Schools
100
100
100
69
31
100
95
5
100
100
100
70
21
100
95
5
100-100
18-23
82-77
100
55
45
100
85
15
100-100
00-65
10-35
100
50
50
100
4
1€
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
75
25
Secondery Education
Prefecturel Schools
Municipel
Village or Torn Schools
Total
Schools under Ministries
Private
100
23
71
2
3.2
.8
100
10
71
6
Q
100
22
70
3
2
100
22
70
4
?.2
.8
100
70
70
6
2
100
2
69
4
2
3
100-100
42-5
45-87
3-1
6-7
3
100-100
16-2
71-93
5-4
8-1
100
22
60
5
1
3
100-100
42-6
47-87
7-64
2-.6
1
100-100
71-04
16-2
5-4
8
100
22
68
6
3
1
100
53
10
10
20
6
100
63
21
10
5
100
94
4.0
1.0
1.0
100
10
81
5
2
2
other then Miristry cf Ed.
Elementery Education
Totel
Ministry of Education
Municipal
Village or Torn Schools
Private
100
89.2
9.4
1
.4
100
88.3
9.4
1.1
.3
100
£8.2
9.4
1.1
.4
100
10.0
88.7
1
.3
100
88.3
10.4
1
.3
100
88.2
10.2
1.3
.3
100
89.1
1.1
0
.8
100
10.3
86.2
3
.5
100
88.0
2.0
9.4
.6
100
89.0
9.1
1
.9
100
10.0
89.0
4
.6
100
87.8
1.8
9.8
.6
100
100
一
100
100
一
100
87.8
5.2
6.5
.5
100
88.0
5.0
6.4
.6
Special Schools
Total
Prefectural
Schools under Ministries
100
83
17
100
100
100
88
12
100
84
16
100
100
100
10
90
100
83
17
100
100
100
89
11
100
83
17
100
100
100
89
11
100
100
100
100
100
100
50
50
other then Ministry of Ed.
# These figures cre not those for actual attendence on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
I The number of toth full and part-time teachers is indicated in this report. Where there ere tro numbers entered in the same columm.
separeted by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the number of part-time teachers.
-7-

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.98)
4XITL. PREFECTURE
PART TWO
£ucry Tcblcs of Jexnese Educational Institutions Showing Number and Percent of
Students, Teachcrs, and Schcols .ccording to Control Jurisdiction Levcl and Typo
Table 7. Schools under the Jurisdiction of Ministry of Educcticn by Iovel and Type
KINDS OF SCHOOLS
ENROLIMENT
TE.CHERS A
30 pril 1946
30 November 1946
30 4pril 1946
30 November 1946
近
F
T
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
Higher Education
(Koto Kyoiku)
College (Semmon Galcso)
1634
1684
1646
1646
42-10
52
52-10
62
Normal Schools (Shihan Gakko)
579
307
886
754
618
1372
65-4
5
74
64-5
5
74
Total - Higher Education
2263
307
2570
2400
618
3018
107-14
5
126
116-15
5
136
Elementary Schools (Sho Gacko)
472
423
895
477
429
906
22
10
32
24
10
34
ittached to the kita Coeduca-
tional Normal School
Total - Ministry of Education
2735
730
3465
2877
1047
3924
129-14 15
158
140-15
15
170
The original date from which this re ort was compiled were supplied through the Mambusho (Ministry of Education) upon request of Education
Research. See "Prefece".
These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollnent on the school records as of these dates.
The number of both full and part-time teachers is indicated in this report. Where there ere two numbers entered in the same columm.
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the number of part-time teachers.

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.99)
Teble ? - Schocls under Prefectural Jurisdiction by Level and Type (Cont'd on p. 10)
AKITA PREFECTORE
it
TE CHERS X
ENROLLLENT
KINDS OF SCHOOLS
30 pril 1946
M
F
T
30 November 1946
M
F
T
30 pril 1946
M
F
T
30 November 1946
F
T
Higher Education
7
(Koto Kyoiku)
135
135
163
163
13-4
4
21
13-8
5
26
Colleges (Semmon Gacko)
135
135
163
163
13-4
4
21
13-8
5
26
Total - Higher Education
Secondary Education
(ChutoKyoiku)
Industrial Schools (Kogyo Gakko)
Vocational Schools (Jitsugyo Gakco)
2946
2460
2946
2460
2909
2453
2909
2453
146
90
146
90
145
36
145
86
gricultural Schools for Jales
(Danshi No Gakko)
4gricultural Schools
for Females
215
215
215
215
13
6
19
13
6
19
(Joshi No Gakko)
522
404
926
522
404
926
27
8-4
39
27
8-4
39
Co-educational gricultural Schools
(Dan-jo Kyogaku No Gakko)
98
98
98
98
5
5
7
7
Fisheries Schools (Suisan Gakko)
Special Vocational Schools
201
201
201
201
11
4-1
16
11
4-1
16
(Tokushu Jitsugyo Gakko)
6026
820
6846
5982
820
6802
292
18-5
315
289
18-5
312
iddle Schools (Chu Gakko)
Girls' High Scnool (Koto Jo Gacko)
Total - Vocational Schools
6925
12951
7822
8642
21593
6925
7822
6887
12869
7739
8559
7739
6887
21,428
195-37
141-21
628-58
83-5
101-10
232
250
797
200-40
148-25
637-65
79-4
97-9
240
256
8e8
Total - Secondary Education
#
These figures are not those for actual attendence on these detes, but those for enrollment on the school recards as of these dates.
x
The number of both full and part-time teachers is indicated in this report. Where there are two numbers entered in the seme column.
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the number of pert-time teschers.
-9-

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.98)
TECHERS
KINDS OF SCHOOLS
30 Lpril 1946
ENROLLMENT
30 November. 1946
30 ril 1946
30 November 1946
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
Special Schools
(Tokushu Gakko)
School for Blind and Deaf-Mute
88
65
153
88
65
153
10
6
16
10
6
16
(o-a Gakko)
Total - Prefectural
13039
8842
21,881
12,957
8787
21,744
651-62
111-10
834
660-73
108-9
850
3
10-

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.98)
AKITA PREFECTURE
Table  - Schools under Municipal Jurisdiction by Level and Type
KINDS OF SCHOOLS
ENROLIMENT
π
TECHERS
x
30 pril 1946
30 November 1946
30 pril 1946
30 November 1946
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
Secondary Education
(Chuto Kyoiku)
Cammercial School (Shogyo Galcro)
355
355
552
552
21
21
20
20
Middle School (Chu Gakko)
826
826
816
816
22-3
25
20-4
24
Girls' High School (ñoto Jo Gako)
719
719
712
712
15
3-1
24
15
8-1
24
36
36
36
36
2-1
3
2-1
3
Youth Schools for Males
(Danshi Seinen Gakko)
Co-educational Youth Schools
586
697
1283
1015
961
1976
29-71
20-13
133
37-68
20-11
136
(Dan-jo Kyogaku Scinen Gakko)
Total - Secondary Education
1803
1416
3219
2419
1673
4092
89-75
28-14
206
94-73
28-12
207
Elcmentary Education
(Shöto Kyoiku)
Elementary Schools (Sho Gakko)
11,780
11,935
23,715
12,073
12,082
24.155
239
289
528
259
282
541
Total - Municipal Education
13,583
13,351
26,934
14.492
13,755
28,247
328-75
317-14
734
353-73
310-12 748
#
These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these detes.
x
The number of both full and part-time teechers is indicated in this report. Where therc are two numbers cntered in the same columm
separeted by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the number of part-time teachers.
-11-

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.95)
KITL PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JLPANESE EDUC.TIONL INSTITUTIONS
I. LINISTRY OF EDUC.TIGN SCHOOLS
. Hcher Educc tión (Koto Kyoiku)
7. Normal Schools (Shihan Galdko)
0)
Co-educetional Normal Schocls(Den-Jo Kyogaku Shihan Gekko) under the Control of Ministry of Education, kito Prefccture
ND
4DDRISS
D.TÉ FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT "
TCHERS
30.pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30 2r. 46
30 Nov.
F
2
1..
T
N
F
T
1 kita Shihan Gakko (kita Hodonoharano-machi,ki- pril 1943
503 307
810
642
618
1260
56
5
61
54 5
59
Normal School)
te City, kita Pref.
Total
503
307
810
642
61
54 5 59
I. MINISTRY OF LDUCATIGN SCHOOLS
. Higher Education (Koto oiku)
7. Normal Schools (Shihan Gckko)
c) Elementery Schools (Sho Gakto) tached to kite Co-cducationul Normal School, under the Control of Linistry of Education, kite Prefecture
NAE
DDRESS
D.TI FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TE.CHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
F
T
NFT
1 kite. Shihen Gekko Donshi- Hodonohertno-machi,  pril 1943
208 145
353
211 151. 362
10
2
12
11213
bu Fuzoku Sho Gakko (Ele- kita City, kita Pref.
mentary Sohool ttached to
the Nale Dept. of kita
Normal School)
2
kita Shihen Gakko Joshibu-Higashinogoyoma-machi, pril 1943
264 278 542 266 278 544
12
8
20
13
21
Fuzoku Sho Gakko (Elementekita City, kita Pref.
ry School Attachod to the
Fomale Dep't. of kita
Normal School)
Total
472 423 895 477 429 906 22 10 322420
These figuros are not those for cctuel cttendence on these detes, but those for enrollment on the sohool records as of these dater.
-16-

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.96)
ROSTER OF JIPINESE EDUCITIOL INSTITUTI ONS
¿KIT PREFECTURE
II. PAEFECTURLL SCHOOLS
B. Secondcry Education (Chuto yoiku)
1. Vocati sal Schools (Jitsugyo Gekko)
c. ricil tural Schuols (No Gt kko)
1) riculturel Schools for Males(Danshi No Gaicko) under the Control of Prefectural Government, kita prefecture
NIE
ADDRESS
DITE FOUNDED
ENROLIMENT
TLCHERS
30.pr. 46
30 Nov. 40
30 r.46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
T
F
T
E
F.
T
1 Kanashi Nogyo Gakko (Kana- Kanashi-mura, inami-
Not Given
735
735
732
732
29
29
30
30
shi gricultural School) kita-un, kita Pref.
2 Omagari Nogyo Gacko (Ome- 0 ri-machi, Semboku- pril 1905
975
975
97
972
34
34
30
30
gari gricultural School) , ita Pref.
3
Takanosu Nogyo Gelko (Taka- Takanosu-machi, Kita- pril 1913
750
750
749
749
27
27
26
26
nosu gricultural School) kita- , kite Pref.
Total
2460
2460
2453
2453
91
90
86
86
II. PREFECTURAL SCHOCLS
B. Sccondary Eaucation (Chuto Kyoiku)
1. Vocation:1 Schools (Jitsugyo Gckko)
c. Agricultural Schools (No Gakko)
2) igricultural Schools for Females(Joshi No Cecko), under the Contro1 of Prefectural Governnent, Lite Prefecture
NIE
DDRESS
DITE FOUNDED
ENROLLIENT
TE.CHERS
30 r.46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
T
F
T
1 Odate Joshi Nogyo Galko Odate-machi, Kita-kita- pril 1946
128
128
128
128
7
11
(Odate Girls' gricultural gun, kita Pref.
School)
2 Omodai Joshi Nogyo Gakko Yonaisawa-machi, Kita-
Merch 1945
87
87
87
6
2
8
8
(Onodai Girls' gricultu- kita-gun, ikita Pref.
ral School)
Total
215 215
215 215
13
19
13
29
These figures are not those for actual attendence on these dates, but those for enrollment on the scaool records as of the
-18-

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.97)
ROSTER CF JN ESE EDUCTIONL INSTITUTIONS
KIT PREFECTURE.
II. PRFECTURL SCHOOLS
B. Secondery Educetion (Chuto Kyoiku)
1. Voccticnal Sehccls (Jitsugyo Gakko)
c. griculturel Schcols (No Gekko)
3) Co-educetional sricultural Schools (Den-Jo Kyogaicu No Galdco), under the Control of Prefectural Government,
kita Prefecture
ir
N.E
DDRESS
D FOUNDED
ENROLLIENT
TE&CHERS
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
1. Nishime Nogyo Gako (Ni- Nishime-mure, Yuri-gun, pril 1942
421
50
471
421
50
471
16
2
18
16
2
18
shime gricultural Schl.) kita Pref.
yuhei Nosan Gakko (Ryu- Masuda-machi, Hiraka-
ril 1946
101
354
455
101
354
455
11
6-4
21
11
hei gricultural and
gun, kita Pref.
Sericultural School)*
Total
522 404 926 522 404 926 27 8-4 39
27 8-4 39
II. PREFECTURL SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
1. Vocational Schools (Jitsugyo Gacko)
d. Fisheries Schools (Suisan Cakko), under the Control of Prefectural Government, kita Prefecture
NIE
DDRESS
D.TE FOUNDED
ENROLIMENT
TE:CHERS
30 ..pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
I
F
T
F
T
11
. F
T
1
kita Suisan Gakko (ki- Funagawaminato-machi, March 1946
98
98
98
98
5
5
7
ta Fisheries School)
Minamiakita-gun,
kita Pref.
Total
98
98
98
98
5
7
These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of those dates.
The number of both full and part-time teachers is inciceted in this report. "here there are two numbers entered in the same columm
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the number of part-time teachers.
-19-

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.96)
ROSTER OF JSL EDUCTIO INSTITUTIONS
KIT PREFECTURE
II. PREFECTURIL SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
1. Voccticnal Schools (Jitsugyo Gakko)
e Special Kinas of Vocationel Schools (Tckushu Jitsugyo Gakko)
2) Seciel inde oi Vocetionc1 Schools for Fe elee (Joshi Tocushu Jitsusyo Gekko) under the Control of ruitcturc1 Gon maent, ite refecture
x
NIE
ADDRESS
DTE FOUNIED
ENROLL ENT
π
TE.CHERS
30 r. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 60r. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
II
F
T
T
Noshiro Joshi Jitsugyo
Nagane, Noshiro City, pril 1945
201
201
201
201
11
4-1
16
11 4-1 16
Gekko (Noshiro Girls'
kita ref.
Vocational School)
 Totel
201
201
201
201
11
4-1 16
These figures are not those for actuel attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
The number of both full ane part-time teachers is indicated in this report. where there are two numbers entered in the same column.
separated by & hyphen, the second figure indicates the number of part-time teachers.

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.98)
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
AKIT PREFECTURE
KIT
II. PREFECTUR.L SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
2. Middle Schools (Chu Gakko), under the Control of Prefectural Government, ¿kita Prefecture
NAME
ADDPESS
DITE FOUNIED
ENROLLIENT
iπ
TE.CHERS
30 Lpr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 ipr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
LI
F
T
F
T
F
T
1 kita Chu Galdko
Negano-machi, kita
Sept. 1873
1482
1482
1495
1495
37-3
40
36-3
39
(kita Middle School)
City, kita Pref.
2
kita Daini Chu Gakko (- Negano-machi, kite
pril 1943
128
128
125
125
0-26
26
0-26
26
kita Second Middle Schl.) City, kita Pref.
3
Hon jo Chu Gatko
Hon jo-machi, Yuri-
pril 1902
940
940
915
915
32-1
33
32-2
34
(Hon jo iddle School)
gun, ikita Pref.
4
Kakudate Chu Gakso (Ke-
Kakudate-machi, Sem-
4pril 1924
641
641
638
638
25-1
26
23-2
25
kudate Middle School)
boku-gun, ikita Pref.
5
Noshiro Chu Gakko
Noshiroheta-machi, No- Dec. 1924
829
829
832
832
24-2
26
31-2
33
(Noshiro Middle School)
shiro City, kite Pref.
6
Odate Chu Gakko
Odate-machi, Kita-kita- March 1898
1239
1239
1236
1236
30-2
32
30-2
32
(Odate Middle School)
gun, kita Pref.
7
Yokote Chu Galko
Yokote-machi, Hiraka-
pril 1898
1130
1130
1125
1125
29-2
31
29-3
32
(Yokoto Middle School)
gun, ikita Pref.
8
Yuzawe Chu Galcko
Yuzawa-machi, Ogachi-
pril 1943
536
536
521
521
18
18
19
19
(Yuzawa Middle School)
gun, kita ref.
Total
6925
6925
6887
6887
195-37
232
200-40
#
These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates
x
The number of both full and part-time teachers is indicated in this report. Where there are two numbers entered in the weme calr
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the number of part-time teachers.
-21-

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.98)
ROSTER OF JIPANESE EDUCITIONAL DSTITUTIONS
¿KITA PREFECTURE
AKITA
II. PREFECTURAL SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyciku)
3. Girls' High Schools (Koto Jo Gakko) under the Control of Prefectural Government, Akita Prefecture
X
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TEACHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
II
F
T
1 kita Koto Jo Gakko (kita Kaninakajinahoncho, ki- Oct. 1901
1165 1165
1155
1155
17-3 12
32
18-2 12 32
Girls' High School)
ta City, kita Pref.
2
Hanawa Koto Jo Gakko (Ha-
Hanawa-mechi, Ka jino-
March 1928
547 547
540
540
12-2 8-1
23
12-2 8-1 23
nawa Girls' High School)
gun, Akita Pref.
3
Honjo Koto Jo Gakko (Hon-
Hon jo-machi, Yuri-
April 120
650 650
609
609
10-3 6
19
12-3 5
20
jo Girls' High School)
gun, kite Pref.
Kakumodate Koto Jo Gakko
Kakunodate-rechi, Sem-
March 1928
506 506
505
505
12-1 6-2
21
11-2 6-1 20
(Kakunodate Girls' High
boku-gun, kita Pref.
School)
5 Noshiro Koto Jo Gakko (No- Hatake-machi, Noshiro
pril 1914
797
797
810
810
12-1 8
21
13-1 7
21
shiro Girls' High School) City, Akita Pref.
6
Odate Koto Jo Gakko (Oda-
Odate-machi, Kitaakite- April 1913
845
845
844
844
14-1 8
23
13-2 8
23
te Girls' High School)
gun, kira Pref.
7
Omagari Koto Jo Gekko (0-
Omagari-machi, Semboku- April 1913
821
821
811
811
18-2 6-1
27
19-5 6-1 31
magari Girls' High Sch.)
gun, kita Pref.
Yokote Koto Jo Gakko (Yo-
Yokote-machi, Hireka-
Feb. 1913
841
841
836
836
14-1 8-1
24
15-1 8
24
kote Girls' High School)
gun, kita Pref.
Yuzawa Koto Jo Gakko (Yu-
Yuzawa-machi, Ogachi-
March 1918
577 577
574 574
10-6 6
22
11-6 5-1 23
zawaGirls' High School)
gun, Akita Pref.
Total
6749 6749
6684 6684
119-20
124-24
68-5 212
65-4 217
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the number of part-time teachers.
-22-

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.97)
ROSTER OF JNESE EDUCTIONL INSTITUTIONS
KIT& PREFECTURE
KIT..
II. PREFECTUR..L SCHOOLS
C. Special Schools (Tokushu Golko)
3. Schools
for the Blind and Deaf-Mute
(Hoa Gakko), under the Control of Prefecturel Government, kita Prefecture
NE
DDRESS
D.T FOUNDED
EROLLMENT #
TECHERS
30.60r.46
30 Nov. 46
30pr.46
30 Nov. 46
H
F
T
F
T
M
T
i1
F
T
1 kita Moa Gakso (kite
Naganoshitashin-machi, Mey 1912
88
65
153
38
65
153
10
6
16
10
6
16
School for tae Blind and kita City, kita Pref.
Doaf-ute)
Totel
88
153
88
153
10
16
10
6
16
These figures are not those for actual attendance on these detes, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these datos.
-23-

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.97)
ROSTER OF JNESE EDUCITIOL INSTITUTIONS
MOITA PREFECTURE
II. .IL L SC.LS
D. Sccondery : ducetion (Chuto Kyoiku)
1. Vocatinel Schools (Jitsugyo Gekko)
ε. Cammercial Schools (Shogyo Grkko)
1) Comperciel Schools for plos (Danahi
Shogyo Gi kko) under the Control of Municipel Office, kit. Prefecture
NE
4DDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLIMENT 
TEACHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
3022. 46
30 NoT. 46
F
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
1 kita Shogyo Galtko (kita Ushi jima-machi, kita
pril 1920
355
355
552
552
21
21
20
20
Commorcial School)
City, kita Pref.
Total
355
355
552
552
21
21
20
20
III. MUNICLL SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
2. Middle Schocls((hu Gekko), under the Control of Municipal Office, kita Prefecture
X
NE
DDRESS
D.TL FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TECHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30pr.46
30 Nov.46
M
F
T
F
T
F
F
T
1 kite Shiritsu Chu Galko
Terauchishogunno, kita March 1942
826
826
816
816
22-3
25
20-4
24
(kita Municipal Middle
City, kita Pref.
School)
Total
826
826
816
816
22-3
25
20-4
24
These figures are not those for actuel attendancc on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
-24-

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.96)
ROSTER OF JPNESE EDUC TIONL INSTITUTIONS
KIT PREFECTURE
KIT
III. MUNICIL SCHOOLS
B. Secondery Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
3. Girlst High Schools(Koto Jo Gakko) under the Control of Municipal Office, Lkita refecture
NLE
DDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLENT 
TE.CHERS 
30 ipr. 46
30 pr. 46
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
11
F
T
IM
F
T
M
F
T
1 kita Koto Jo Gakko (iki- Tsuchizekiminato-machi, June 1920
719
719
712
712
15
8-1
24
15
8-1
24
ta Girls' High School)
kita City, kita ref.
Totel
719
719
712712
15
8-1
24
15
8-1 24
III. LUNICIL SCHOOLS
B. Secondery Ecuoation (Chuto Kyoiku)
4. Youth Schools (Seinen Gaso)
a ) Youth Schoolgfor Males (Danshi Seinen Gakko) under the Control of Municipel office, kita Prefecture
NE
DDRESS
DTE FOUNLD
ENROLLMANT
it
TL.CHES
30 ..pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 NOV. 46
F
T
ií
F
T
ii
F
T
F
T
1 Fu jikura Seinen Gaidko
Sannei, kita City,
pril 1946
36
36
36
36
2-1
3
2-1
3
(Fu jikura Youth School)
Zkite Pref.
Totel
36
36
36
36
2-1
3
2-1
3
These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates?
x
The number of both full and part-time teedhers is indicated in this report. where there are two numbers entered in the same columi.
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the number of part-timé teachers.
-25-

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.99)
ROSTER OF JAPAVESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
AKITA PREFECTURE
AITA
III. LUNICIPAL SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
4. Youth Schools (Seinen Gakko)
c) Co-educetional Youth Schools (Den-Jo Kyogaku Seinén Ga tco) under the Control of unicipal office, Akita Prefecture
NAE
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLIENT #
TEAC.HERS
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 60r.46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
1 raye Seinen Gako
raya-machi, kita
4pril 1946
35
66
101
50
69
119
0-4
0-2
6
1-6
1-2
10
(raya Youth School)
City, kita Pref..
2 sahikawa Seinen Gakko
Tegata, ita City,
pril 1946
50
52
102
54
55
109
0-6
1-2
9
1-6
1-2
10
(isahikawe Youth School)
kita Pref.
3
Hiroomote Seinen Gakko
Hiro Omote, Tsurube-machi, pril 1946
48
68
116
45
59
105. 1-6 .1-3
11
1-6
1-3
11
(Hiroamote Youth School)
kita City, kita Pref.
4
Hodono Seinen Gakko
Hodono Omotesuwa-machi, pril 1946
42
67
109
48
60
108
1-7 1-1
10
3-4
1-1
9
(Hodono Youth School)
kita City, kita Pref.
Kawashiri-machi, kita
pril 1946.
55
75
130
92
58
150
1-7
1-2
11
2-1
11
(Kawashiri Youth School)
City, kita Pref.
6
Meitoku Seinen Gakko
Shimonakashira-machi,
pril 1946
24
29
53
23
29
52
1-4
5
2-4
7
(Meitoku Youth School)
kita City, kita Pref.
7
Noshiro Seinen Gakko
Hannya-machi, Noshiro
pril 1944
42
29
71
428
355
783
13-178
38
16-176
39
(Noshiro Youth School)
City, kita Pref.
8
Soekawa Seinen Galdko
Furuki-machi, kita
pril 1946
50
33
83
50
38
88
1-3
1-1
6
1-3
1-1
(Soekawa Youth School)
Uity, kita pref.
9
Terauchi Seinen Gakko
Terauchi, kita City,
pril 1946
71
72
143
62
50
112
1-7
2
10
1-5
2
8
(Terauchi Youth School)
kita Pref.
These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dstes, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
The number of both full and part-time teachers is indicated in this report. Where there ere two numbers entered in the same columm.
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the number of part-time teachers.
-26-

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.97)
1KITA. PREFECTURE
NE
DDRESS
DTE FOUNDED
30 ior. 46
ENROLLMENT
30 Nov. 46
30 ir. 46
TE.CHERS
30 Nov. 46
93
F
132
225
T
86
102
F
188
T
8-2
4
F
T
14
M
8-2
F
T
14
10 Tsuchizaki Seinen Gakko Tsuchizakiminato sahi- pril 1946
(Tsuchizaki Youth Schl.) achi, kita City,
kita pref.
150
76
86
162
2-8  0-1
11
April 1946
11 Ushi jima Seinen Galico Ushi jima, kita City,
(Ushi jima Youth Schl.). kita Pref.
37-68 20-11 136
586 697 1283 1015 961 1976 29-71 20-13 133
Total
-27-

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.99)
ROSTER OF JAPNESE EDUC TIONAL INSTITUTIONS
KIT PREFECTURE
IT
III. HUNICIPI SCHOOLS
C. Llementary Education (Shoto Kyoiku)
1. Elementary Schools (Sho Gakko) under the Control of Municipal Office, kita Prefecture
NIE
LDDRISS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLIET
TE.CHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
11
F
T
F
T
1 sahikawa Sho Gakko (sa- Tegeta Muko Karamiden,
Feb. 1889
314
347
661
321
332
653
11
9
20
11
8
19
hikawa Elementary Schl. ) kita City. kita Pref.
2
Chikuzan Sho Gakko ('hiku- Nanayama Minami Shin-
Nov. 1883
832
896
1728
797
854
1651
16
22
38
15
23
38
zan Elementary School)
machi, kita City,
kite Pref.
3
Fu jikura Sho Galko (Fu ji- Sannei Kemidai, kita
June 1889
67
58
125
67
56
123
3
2
5
2
2
4
kura Elementary School)
City, kita Pref.
4
Hiroomote Sho Galdko (Hi-
Hiroomote Tsurinabe-machi, Nov. 1874
259
243
507
257
248
505
6
9
15
8
8
16
roomote Elementary Schl.)
kita City, kita Pref.
5
Hodono Sho Gakko (Hodono
Hodono Omote Suwacho,
July 1874 596
620
1216
621
741
1362
11
14
25
12
15
27
Elementary School)
kite City, kita Pref.
6
Honokise Sho Gakko (Hono- Okawabate, Honokise, No-
May 1875 173
171
344
173
151
324
6
3
9
6
3
9
kise Elementary School) shiro City, ita Pref.
7
Kyokuhoku Sho Gakko (Kyo- Kawashiri-machi, kita
pril 1887 505
461
966
515
480
995
10
16
26
11
15
26
kuhoku Elementary Schl.) City, kita Pref.
8
Kyokunan Sho Galcko (Ky
Balturo-me chi, kite
Nov. 1909
445
423
868
453
429
882
9
13
22
11
15
26
kunan Elementary School)
City, kita Pref.
9
Neitoku Sho Galdko (Mei-
Shimonaka jo-machi, kita ¿pril 1883
423
400
823
457
433
890
13
8
21
13
8
21
toku Elementary School)
city, kita pref.
10
ukainoshiro Sho Gakko
Lukainoshiro Ueno, No-
Dec. 1876
370
405
775
369
408
777
4
12
16
7
11
18
(Lukainoshiro Elementary
shiro City, kita Pref.
School)
11
Nakadori Sho Gakko (Na-
Higashi Nego Koya-machi, May 1892
575
722
1297
651
662
1313
12
13
25
15
12
27
kadori Elementary School) ¿kita City, kita Pref.
#
These figures are not those for actual attendence on these deates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
-28-

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.98)
NILE
ADDRESS
D.TE FOUN DED
ENROLIMENT
TE.CHERS
30 2pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
F
T
II
F
T
II
F
T
12
Nisshin Sho Galcko (Nis-
raya-machi, kita City, July 1874
741
720
1461
746
741
1487
12
13
25
14
13
27
shin Elementary School)
kita Pref.
13
Ogibuchi Sho Gaidko (0-
Okida, Noshiro City,
May 1875
189
175
364
192
174
366
5
2
7
4
5
9
gibuchi Elementary Schl.) kita Pref.
14
Sakaki Sho Gakko (Saka-
Ouchida, Noshiro City,
July 1879
434
426
860
433
427
860
7
10
17
10
8
18
ki Elementary School)
kita Pref.
15
Soigawa Sho Gakko (Soi-
Furushiro Mavari Soi-
Nov. 1889
125
99
224
123
104
227
5
4
9
5
3
8
gawa Elementory School)
gawa, kita City,
kita Pref.
16
Ta jiri Sho Gakko (Ta ji-
Keva jiri Shoshamae,
Sept. 1374
454
459
913
466
456
922
δ
9
17
10
8
18
ri Elementary School)
kita City, kite Pref.
17
Takashimizu Sho Gacko
Torauchi, Chata, kita
Nov.1δ78
505
516
1021
530
536
1066
10
15
25
11
15
26
(Takashimizu Elementary
City, kita Pref.
School)
18
Tako Sho Gakko (Tako
Tako, Noshiro City,
Sept. 1882
147
148
295
150
146
296
4
5
9
4
3
7
Elementary School)
kita Pref.
19
Tei jo Daiichi Sho Gako
Hannya-machi, Noshiro
May 1874
1126
686
1812
1172 702
1874
27
20
47
21
19
40
(Tei jo First Elementary
City, kita Pref.
School)
20
Tei jo Daini ho Gakko
Nagane-ma chi, Noshiro
May 1901
696
1227
1923 716
1160 1876
12
24
36
17
23
40
(Tei jo Second Elemen-
City, kita Prof.
tary School)
21
Tei jo Daisan Sho Gakko
Hatake-machi, Noshiro
May 1874
722
729
1451
738
749
1487
12
16
28
12
17
29
(Lei jc Third Elementary
City, kita Pref.
School)
22
Tsuchizali Sho Gakko
Tsuchizaki Minato-machi, pril 1874
966
836
1802
1794 1793 3587
17
17
34
31
40
71
(Tsuchizaki Elcmentery
kita City, kita Pref.
School)
-29-

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.94)
LKITI PREFECTURE
NJE
ΔDDRESS
DÉE FOUNDED
30 . 46
ENROLIMENT
30 Nov. 46
30. p. 46
TECHERS
30 Nov: 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
T
F
T
23 Tsuchizaki mini Sho
Tsuchizcki Mineto-mo-
Oct. 1908
789 866 1655
ii
2435
Gakko.(Tsuchizaki Socond chi, ita City,
Elemontery School) * kita Pref.
24
Ushi jima Sho Galko (U-
Ushi jima-machi, kita
Dec. 1875
327 297 624
330 300 630
8
17
.17
shi jimn Elamentery
City, kita pref.
School)
259 282 541
11780 11935 23715 12073 12082 24155 239 289 528
Totel
* The school was closed in ugust 1946.
-30-

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.97)
ROSTER OF JAPAFESE EDUCATI ONAL PSTITULICNS
AKITA
AKITA PREFECTURE
IV. VILLAGE OR TOW SCHOCIS
. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
3. Girls' High Schools (Koto Jo Gekko) under the Control of Village or Tom Office, Akita Prefecture
TEACHERS
x
EROLLMENT #
NAPE
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 45
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
182
T
182
M
F
183
183
T
6-1 2
M
F
T
9
6-1
M
2
F
T
9
1 'Gojonome Koto Jo Gakko (Go- Gojoncme-machi, Fäneni- March 1942
jonome Girls' High School) Akita-gun,kita Pref.
Pay 1916
439
439
433
433
10
5
15
10
15
2
Kosaka Koto Jo Gakko (Kosa- Kosaka-mechi, Kazuno-
ka Girls' High School)
gun, Akita Pref.
452 452
439
439
6
8
14
8
15
March 1927
3
Takanosu Koto Jo Gakko (Ta- Takanosu-machi, Kita-
kanosu Girls' High SchooI) kita-gun, kita Pref.
1073 1073
1055 1055
22-1 15
38
24-1:14 39
Total
# These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
X The number of both full and part-time teachers is indicated in this report. Where there are two numbers entered in the same columm
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the number of part-time teachers.
-31-

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.97)
ROSTER OF JIPINESE EDUCITIONAL INSTITUTIONS
T
LKITL. PREFECTURE
IV. VILLLGE OR TOI: SCHOOLS
A. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
4 Youth Schools (Seinen Galdro)
x
a Youth Schools for Lales (Yanshi Seinen Galko) under the Control of Villa e or Town office, iita Prefecture
DTE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
it
30 pr. 46
TECHERS
30 Nov. 46
NE
LDDRESS
pril 1928
30 pr. 46
31
F
T
31
30 Nov. 46
43
F
T
43
4
F
T
4
4
F
T
4
Nunari-mura, Ogachi-
Ogachi Seisan Seinen
gun, kita pref.
Youth School)
Gakko (Ogachi Industrial
80
80
80
80
6-2
8
6-2
8
Sawagucii-mura, Kita-- pril 1946
2
Seisan Youth School
(Seisan Youth School)
kita-gun, kita pref.
June 1943
38
38
37
37
1
1
6
6
Hon jo-machi, Yuri-
3 Yuri Seisan Seinen Gakko
(Yuri Technical Youth
School)
gun, ita pref.
149
149
160
160
11-2
13
16-2
18
Total
IV. VILLG OR TON SCHOOLS
. Secondary Education (Uhuto Kyoiku)
4. Youth Schook (Seinen Galcko)
X
b Youth Schook for Females(Josni Seinen Gacko) under the Control of Villce or Tom Offic, kite Prefecture
ENROLLIENT
it
TELCHERS
30 Nov. 46
NJE
DDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
30 ipr. 46
F
T
30 Nov. 46
X
F
T
30 pr. 46
0-2 1-1 4
F
T
i1
0-2 1-1
F
4
T
25
25
25
25
Uchiotomo-mura, Senbo- pril 1935
1 Nakayama Seinen Gekko
ku-gun, kita Pref.
(Nalkayame Youth School)
25
25
Total
These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school rocords as of those dates
The number of both full and part-time teachers is indicated in this report. where there are two numbers entered in the same columm.
separated by a hyphen, the sucond figure indicates the number of part-time teachers.
-32-

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.97)
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDU C TI OL ENST ITUTI CNS
KIT. PREFECTURE
KITA
IV. VILLGE OR TON SCHOOLS
a. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
4. Youth Schools (Scinen Gakko)
c) Co-educational Youth Schools (Dan jo Kyogeku Seinen Gakco) under the Control of Village or Town Office, kita Prefecture.
x
1
NIR
DDRESS
DTE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TEACHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
II
F
T
F
三
F
T
F
1 ge Seinen Gakco
ge-mura, Hiraka-gun,
pril 1935
156
101
257
156
101
257
5
2
7
5
2
7
(ge Youth School)
kita Pref.
kagawe Seinen Gakko
Yamese-mura, Kita kita- Lay 1946
64
43
107
79
44
123
0-1
12
0-1
2
(kegawe Youth School)
gun, ita pref.
kebono Seinen Gakko
kebono-mura, Kazuno-
June 1935
153
116
269
152
132
284
15
8-1
3
12
(kebono Youth School)
gun, ita pref.
4
inomiya Daiichi Seinen
kinomiya-mura, Ogachi- pril 1935
234
77
311
116
75
191
1-3
1-2
1-3 1-2
7
Gakko (kinomiye First
gun, ita Pref.
Youth School)
5
kinomiya Daini Soinen
kinomiya-mura, Ogachi- Not Given
105 85 -19C
108
87 195
1-3 1
5
1-3 1
5
Galdko (kinomiya Second
gun, kita pref.
Youth School)
niai Seinen Gakko
niai-machi. Kita kita- July 1926
133
178316
72
112
184
4-2 1-1 .8
4-2 1-1
8
(niai Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
7 ogida Seinen Galdco
oida-mura, Kita ita- pril 1944
84
86
170
99
128
227
2-2
2-1 7 3-2 2-1
8
(ogida Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
8
rakawa Seinen Gakko
rakawa-mura, Senbaku- pril 1935
38
37
75
40
36
76
02
0-1.3
0-2 01
(Lrakave Youth School)
gun, Lkite Pref.
9
sahi Seinen Geldo
rakawe-mure, Senboku-
July 1935
68
56
124
77 58
135
1-3
1-1
(sahi Youth School)
gun, kita pref.
10
sahi Seinen Gaidko
sahi-mura, Hireka-
Sept. 1920
190
127 317
2974-3 3
10
(sahi Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
#
These figures are not those for actuel attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of the
x
The number of both full and pert-time teachers is indicated in this report. Where there are two numbers entered in the
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the number of part-time teachers.
- 39-

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.98)
NLE
DDRESS
DTE FOUNDED
ENROLIMENT
TELCHERS
30 or.46
30 Nov. 46
30 2pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
II
F
T
F
T
F
T
11 sakura Seinen Gakko
Yokote-machi, Hirake-
pril 1935
158
118
276
155
113
268
5-3
2
10
5-3
0-2
10
(saisura Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
12
semai Seinen Gakko
Asemai-nachi, Hireke-
pril 1935
224
148
372
188
147
335
6-4
3
13
6-3
3
12
(isamai. Youth School)
gun, ita Pre.
13
sanai Seinen Gakso
sanai-machi, Yanamoto-
april 1936
147
168
315
174
149
323
0-6
1
7
1-6 1-1
9
(sanai Youth School)
gun, kita Prei.
14
yukawa Seinen Gelco
-yukawa-mura, Yuri-
July 1935
131
90
221
121
83
204
1-8
1-4
14
1-8
1-3
13
(yukama Youth School)
gun, kita pref.
15
Babanome Seinen Galdko
Babanone-mura, Minami-
July 1935
148
93
241
146
77
223
2-5
1-4
12
2-5
1-4.12
(Babanome Youth Schl.)
kita-gun, tita Pref.
16
Benten Seinen Gacko
Benten-mura, Ogachi-
pril 1935
193
76
269
230
140
370
2-4
1-2
9
2-5
1-2
10
(Benten Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
17 ·Bozawa Seinen Galko
Bozawa-mura, Kite-Akita-
July 1935
82
66
148
82
66
148
1-7
0-1
1-7
0-19
(Bozawe Youth School)
gun, kita pref.
18
Daigo Seinen Galdko
Daigo-mure, Hiraka-
pril 1935
414
247
661
376
236
612
4-1
3.
8
4-1.3
8
(Deigo Youth School)
gun, Ikite Pref.
19
Daishoji Seinen Gakko
Daishoji-mura, Yuri-
July 1935
194
126
320
182
144
326
1-2
1-6
10
1-3. 3-4 11
(Deishoji Youth Schl.)
gun, kita pref.
20
Ei Seinen Gakko
Ei-mura, Kita-kita-
July 1935
70
33
103
70
133
203
1-4
0-1
6
2-4.0-1.5
(Ei Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
21
Ei jima Seinen Gelkko
Ei jima-mura, Minami-iki- pril 1935
89
86
175
89
86
175
1-4
1-4
10
1-4 1-4.. 10
(Ei jime Youth School)
ta-gun, -kita Pref.
22
Fu jiki Scinen Galdko
Fujiki-mura, Senboku-
pril 1935
105
60
165
113
78
191
1-5
1-1
8
1-5 1-1. 8
(Fujiki Youth School)
gun, kita pref.
23
Fu jikoto Seinen Gakko
Fujikoto-mura, Yamanoto- July 1935
307
238
545
229
188
417
7
4
11
6
10
(Fujikoto Youth Schl.)
gun, kita Pref.
24
Fukuchi Seinen Galdko
fisuchi-mura, Hiraka-
pril 1935
296
75
371
188
122
310
4-2
2
8
4-228.
("ukuchi Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
25
Funagava Daiichi Seinen
Funagavaminato-machi,
pril 1935
225
190
415
214
193
407
1-9
1-11
Gakko (Funagawa First
Minaniakita-gun,
Youth School)
kita Pref.
-34

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.98)
NME
DDRESS
DTE FOUNDED
EROLEAT
TECHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
F
T
F
26
Funagawa Deini Seinen
Funagamaninato-machi,
Loril 1935 64
28
92
61
42
103
1-3
1-1
6
1-3 11
Gakko (runagawa Second
Iinami-kita-gun,
Youth School)
ikita Pref.
27
Funakoshi Seinen Gakko
Funakoshi-machi, Minami- April 1935
99
105
204
97
86
183
2-8.2
12
2-8 2
.12
(Funakoshi Youth Schl.)
kita-gun, kita Pref.
28
Funaoka Seinen Gaicko
Funaoka-mura, Kawabe-
pril 1935
74
157
231
83
74
157
4-3
3-4
14
4-3 3-4
14
(Funaoka Youth School)
gun, kita pref.
29
Futatsui Seinen Galdko
Futatsui-machi, Yans-
April 1946
219
86
305
96
63
159
9-4
6-3
22
10-4 6-3
23
(Futatsui Youth School)
moto-gun, kita pref.
30
Futsunai Seinen Geldo
Futsunai-mura, Minami-
Larch 1944
66
143
209
143
36
229
6-6
3
15
6-6 3
15
(Futsunai Youth School)
kita-gun, kita Pref.
31
Futto Seinen Gakko
Futto-mura, Minami-i-
April 1935
165
158
323
165
158
323
1-9
1-2
13
1-11 2-2
16
(Futto Youth School)
kita-gun, kita pref.
32
Go jonome Seinen Gakko
Go jonome-machi, Minami- Merch 1916
218
132
350
148
75
223
6-2
3
11
6-2
3
11
(Go jonome Youth School)
cita-gu, kite pref.
33
Hachimori Seinen Gakco
Hachimori-mura, Yamamo- June 1935
68
63
131
224
100
324
3-7
10
3-7 2-2
14
(Hachimori Youth School)
to-gun, kita pref.
34
Hamada Seinen Gakko
Hanada-mura, Kavabe-
pril 1935
87
66
153
71
54
125
1-5
1-2
1-5 12
9
(amada Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
35
Hamaguchi Seinen Gakko
Hameguchi-mura, Yama-
Mmy 1917
102
72
174
192
174
366
2-4
1-2.9
2-412
(Hamaguchi Youth School)
moto-gun, kita Pref.
36
Hanadate Seinen Gakko
Hanadate-machi, Sembo- July 1935
125
122
247
114
118
232
2-2
1-3
8
2=219
8
(Hanadate Youth School)
ku-gun, wkita pref.
37 Hanacka Seincn Gadko
Hanaoka-machi, Kita-
Oct. 1919
102
60
162
136
89
225
3-2
1-2
3-21=2
(Hanaoka Youth School)
kita-gun, kita Pref.
38
Hanawa Seinen Galdko
Hanava-machi, Kazuno-
July 1921
404
354
758
406
317
723
11-5
4-2 22
(Hanawa Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
39
Hanawakawa Seinen Gakdco
Hanawakewa-mura, Yamamo- pril 1935
118
170
288
-118
104
222
1-3
(Hananakawa Youth Schl.)
to-gun, ita Pref.
-35-

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.98)
NIME
LDDRESS
DTE FOUNDED
ENROLIMENT
TE CHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30r.46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
F
T
三
F
T
F
T
40 Hatano Seinen Galdko
Hatano-mura, Ogachi-
April-1935
150
72
222
138
72
210
1-4
1-2
8
1-4
1-2
8
(Hatano Youth School)
gun, Akita Pref.
41' Hataya Seinen Gekko
Hetaya-mura, Semboku-
April 1935
115
87
202
112
88
200
2-4
1-1
8
2-4 1-1
8
(Hataya Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
42
Hayaguchi Seinen Gakko
Hayaguchi-mura, Kita-
April 1935
90
77
167
114
101
215
1-4
1
9
6
(Hayaguchi Youth Schl.)
Akite-gun, ita Pref.
43
Hibiki Seinen Galdo
Hibiki-mura, Yamamoto- Jan. 1944
79
97
176
284
230 514
3-4 .3-3
13
3-4
3-4 14
(Hbiki Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
189
113
302
171
135306
6-3
2
11
11
44 Higashidate Seinen Gakto Higashidate-mura, Kita- July 1936
(Higashidate Youth Schl.) Akita-gun, kita Pref.
45. Higashinaruse Seinen Gakko Higashinaruse, Oga-
pril 1935
153
111
269 . 150
112
262
0-5
1-1
7
0-5 1-1
7
(Higashinause Youth Schl.) chi-gun, Akita Pref.
46
Higashitekizawa Seinen
Higashitakizawa-mura,
July 1935
140
168
308
120
117237
3-3
2-1
9
4-3
1-1
9
Gakko (Higashitakizawa
Yuri-gun, kita Pref.
Youth School)
47
Hinokinai Seinen Galdko Hinokinai-mura, Semboku- pril 1935
288
233
521
288 . 233 521
2-5 2..9
2-52
9
(Hinokinai Youth Schl.)
gun, Lkite Pref.
43
Hirasawa Seinen Galdko
Hirasawa-machi, Yuri-
July 1935
271
224
495
199
155
354
5-2
2
9
5-2
2
9
(Hirasawa Youth School)
gun, kite Pref.
49
Htoichi Seinen Galdso
Hitoichi-machi, linami-
Not Given
107
100
207
134.106
240
2-7
1-2
12
. 2-7
12
12
(Hitoichi Youth School)
kite-gun, ita pref.
50
Hiyama Seinen Gakko
Hiyana, Yamamoto-gun,
March 1923
88
86
174. .85
93
178
2-4
1-411
2-4.14
11
(Hiyama Youth School)
kita Pref.
51
Hon jo Seinen Gakko
Hon jo-mechi, Yuri-gun,
pril 1944
68
256
324
28
.34
62
4-3
2
9
3-32
8
(Hon jo Youth School)
kita pref.
52
Inaniwa Seinen Gakdko
Inaniwa-machi. Ogachi-
pril 1935
127
105
232
138 98..
236.
3-3
2-1
9
452-1
(Inaniwe Youth School)
gun, Lkita Pref.
53
Inasawa Seinen Gakko
rakawa-mura, Semboku-
April 1935
51
53
104. 51
53
104.
0-2
0-1
3
0-2
(Inasewe Youth School)
gun, kita pref.
54
Innai Seinen Gekko
Innai-machi, Yuri-gun,
July 1935
144
147
291
130
132
262
4-6
2-1
13
5-6
15
(Innai Youth School)
kita Pref.
-36-

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.98)
TELCHERS
ENROLLMENT
NLE
DDRESS
DITE FOUNDED
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
March 1935
144
F
140
T
284
139
12
F
141
T
280
3-3
F
2-1
T
9
3-3 2-1
9
Innai-machi, Ogachi-
55
Innai Seinen Gakko
(Innai Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
174
108
282
174
108
282
2-5
1-2
10
2-5
1-2
10
Iriai-mura, Minami-ki- ipril 1935
56
Iriai Seinen Gakko
(Iriai Youth School)
ta-gun, Lita Pref.
128
194
322
192
164
356
4-3
3
10
4-3 3
10
Ishizawa-mura, Yuri-gun, July 1935
57
Ishizawa Seinen Gek ko
(Ishizawe Youth School)
Lkita pref.
46
42
88
51
46
97
0-5
1
6
0-5
6
Iwadate-mura, Yamamoto- Jan. 1920
58
Iwadate Seinen Galdco
(Iwadate Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
85
60
145
108
80
188
1-3
1-1
6
1-3 1-1
6
Hi ashinaruse-mura, Oga pril 1935
59
Iwaigawa Seinen Gakko
(Iwaigawa Youth School)
chi-gun, kita Pref.
287
221
508
272
67
339
5.-3
2-1
11
5-3
2-1
11
Iwamisannai-mura, Kava- pril 1944
60
Iwamisannai Seinen Gekko
(Ivamisennai Youth Schl.)
be-gun, kita Pref.
Oct. 1918
34
19
53
75
30
105
1-3
1
5
1-3
1
5
Hayaguchi-mura, Kita-
61
Iwanome Seinen Gakko
(Iwanome Youth School)
kita-gun, kita pref.
pril 1935
130
91
221
157
87
244
4-3
2
9
4-4
2
10
Ivasaki-machi, Ogachi-
62
Iwasaki Seinen Gakko
(Iwasaki Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
July 1935
126
104
230
127
148
275
1-7
1-514
18
1-6
16
Iwaye-mura, Yuri-gun.
63
Iwaya Seinen Gakko
(Iwaya Youth School)
Lkita Pref.
pril 1935
164
108
272
168
108
276
3-3
1-1
8
3-3
8
Izume-mura, Semboku-
64
Izume Seinen Gakko
(Izume Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
pril 1935
254
173
427
254
173
427
5-6
65
Jindai Seinen Galko
Jindai-mura, Semboku-
(Jindai Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
226
166
392
225
126
351
4-3
2-1
10
4-3
Jingu ji-machi, Semboku- July 1935
66
Jinguji Seinen Galdko
(Jinguji Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
181
86
267
166
59
225
4-2
2
8
pril 1935
67
Jumon ji Seinen Galkko
Jumon ji-machi, Hiraka-
(Jumon ji Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
155
127
282
119
120 239
2=2
0-1
Junisho-machi, Kita-ki-pril 1935
68
Junisho Seinen Gakko
(Junisho Youth School)
ta-gun, kita Pref.
April 1935
260
122
382
260
122
382
4-4
69 Kado Seinen Gekko
Kado-machi, Yamamoto-
(Kado Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
-37

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.98)
NALE
ADDRESS
DETE FOUNDED
ENROLILENT
TRICHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 dor. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
F
T
F
T
1
F.
T
Kakuchi Seinen Gakko
Kanazawa-machi, Semboku- July 1935.
125
74
199
130109
239
0-5
1-2
8
0-4
12
7
(Kakuchi Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
Kaicudate Seinen Galdso
Kakudate-machi, Sen-
July 1935
186
155
341
185
169
354
5-3
0-1
9
5-3
0-1. 9
(Kakudate Youth School)
boku-gun, kita pref.
Kakunagava Seinen Galko
Kaiumagame, Hiraka-
pril 1935 146
106
252
152
113
265
5-2
3
10
5-2
3
10
(Kakumagawa Youth Schl.)
gun, ita pref.
Kameda Seinen Galco
Kameda-machi, Yuri-
pril 1944
156
148
304
145
137
282
4-1
3
8
-5-1
3
9
(Kameda Youth School)
gun, ita Pref.
Kameta Seinen Galdko
lasutc-machi, Hiraka-
pril 1935
96
48 . 144
94
48
142
2-3
2
7
2-3
2
7
(Kameta Youth School)
gun, kita pref.
Kanigo Seinen Galko
Kamigo-mura, Yuri-gun,
July 1935
148
163
311
173
165
338
2-7
2-6
17
1-8
2-7
17
(Kanigo Youth School)
kita ref.
Kamihana Seinen Gakko
Kaminana-mura, Yuri-gun, March 1940 153
120
273
110
101
211
1-8
7-1
17
1-9
1-7
(Kamihama Youth School)
ita Pref.
Kamihinokinai Seinen Gadko Hinokinai-mura, Sembo- April 1935
88
79
167
88
79
167
1-2
1-1
5
1-2
1-1
5
(Kamhinoknal Youth Schl.) ku-gun, kita Pref.
Kamiigawa Seinen Gakko
Kamiigava-nura, Minami-
Not Given
131
109
240
131
109
240
4-4
2
10
4-4
2
10
(Kamiigata Youth Schl.)
kita-gun, ite Pref.
Kandivakawe Seinen Gakko
Kaniiwákava-mura, Yama- y 1920
126
97
223
129
99
228
2-6
2-2
12
2-6
2-2
12
(Kemiwakava Youth Schl.)
moto-gun, ita Pref.
Kamikawaouchi Seinen Geio Kamikavaouchi-mura, Yu- July 1935
276
165
441
277
167
444
1-5
1-2
9
2-5
1-2
9
(Kmikawouchi YathSohl.) ri-gun, kita Pref.
Kamikawasoe Seinen Gakko Kamikavasoe-mura, Kita-
July 1935
114
120
234
108
83
191
2-3
2-1
8
5
2-1
8
(Kamikawesoe Youth Schl.)
kita-gun, kita pref.
Kamikitade Seinen Gakko Kanikitade-mura, Kava-
Lpril 1935
117
77
194
118 72
190
1-4
1-3
9
1-4 1-39
(Kamikitade Youth School) be-gun, kita Pref.
Kamiono Seinen Gakko
Kamiono-mura, Kita-iki- Sept. .1919 150
105
255
10592
197
1-4
1-1
7
(Kamiono Youth School)
ta-gun,ita Pref.
Kamishinjo Seinen Galdko Kamishin jo-mura, inami- 4pril 1935
81
83
164
81
83
164
6
2-2
10
6
10
(Kamishinjo Youth Schl.) kita-gun, kita Pref.
-38-

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.98)
NALE
ADDRESS
DATE FOUN DED
TELCHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Hov、46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
F
T
11
F
T
F
85 Kamoaosa Seinen Gakko
Toga-mura, Hinami-Akita- pril 1935
31
31
62
31
31
62
3-1
1
5
3-11
(Kamoaosa Youth School)
gun, kita pref.
86
Kaneashi. Seinen Gakko
Kanaashi-mure, Minani-
IMarch 1944
182
223
405
180
190
370
4-4
2
10
5-3.2
10
(Kanaashi Youth School)
kita-gun, kita Pref.
87 Kanacka Seinen Gakko
Kanaoka-mura, Yamamoto-
Nov. 1896
158
135. 293
181
131
312
0-3
1-2
6
1-3 1-27
(Kanaoka Youth School)
gun, ita Pref.
88
Kanazawahigashine Seinen
Hataya-mura, Semboku-
April 1935
105
63
168
104
57
161
1-3
1-1
6
1-3 1-16
Gakko (Kanazawahigashine
gun, kita Pref.
Youth School)
89
Kanezawanishine Seinen
Kanazawanishine-mura,
June 1935
171
82
253
171
82
253
4-2
2-2
10
4-2
2-2
10
Galko (Kanazawanishine
Semboku-gun, kita
Youth School)
Pref.
90
Kanezama Seinen Gakko
Kanezava-machi, Sem-
pril 1935
239
222
461
246
66
312
1-6
2-2
11
1-6
2-211
(Kanezawe Youth School)
boku-gun, kita pref.
91
Kerivano Seinen Galdko
Kariwano-aza, Atago-ma- July 1935
107
129
236
103
122
225
0-6
1-1
8
0-6
1-18
(Kariwano Youth School)
chi, Semboku-gun, kita Pref.
92
Kesuge Seinen Gakko
Kasugc-mura, Yamamoto-
July 1935
47
62
109
47
66
113
1-2
0-3
1-2
(Kasugo Youth School)
gun, Akita Prof.
93
Kwanishi Seinon Galko
Kawanishi-mura. Hiraka- Nov. 1917
192
42
234
204
147
351
5-2
2-2
11
5-2 2-211
(Kawanishi Youth School)
gun, Aita Pref.
94
Kawauchi Seinen Gakko
Kawauchi-mura, Yuri-
July 1935
279
179
458
199
122
321
3-5
3-1
12
3-53-10112
(Kewauchi Youth Schoel)
gun, kita prof.
95
Kawazoi Seinen Gakko
Kavazoi-mura, Kawabo-
July 1935
156 129
285
203
120
323
2-2
2
6
(Kawczoi Youth School)
gun, kita pref.
96 Kawazuro Seinen Gakiko
Kewazure-machi, Ogachi- pril 1935
271
189
460
255
141
396
1-6
2-1
10 1-6.2-110
(Kawazure Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
97
Kamanai Seinen Gakko
Komanai-machi, Kazuno-
July 1935
156
129
285
156
118
274
5-2
(Komanei Youth School)
gun, Akita Pref.
98 Kisakata Seinon Gakko
Kisakata-machi, Yuri-
April 1944
211
144 355
196
143
339
5-5
2
(Kisakata Youth School)
gum, kita Prof.
-39

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.98)
NALE
LDDRESS
LATE FOUNIED
ENROLILENT
TELCHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Lpr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
99 Kitanaraoka Scinon Gakko
Kitanaraoka-mura, Sembo- July 1935
89
57
146
95
55
150
0-3
1-1
5
0-3
1-1
:(Kitanarada Youth Schl.)
Lu-gun, kita Pref.
100 Kitaura Soinen Gekko
Kitaura-machi, Länami-
Merch 1940
255
197
452
322
247
569
6-5.3
14
6-5
14
(I taura Youth School)
kita-gun, kita Pref.
101
Kitcutotsu Soinen Gekko Kitautotsu-murc, Yuri-
July 1935
109
84
193
90
83
173
2-6
1-4
12
1-6
1-4
12
(itaututau Youth Schl.) gun, ite Pref.
102 Koido Soinen Gakko
Koide-mure, Yuri-gun,
July 1935
135
128
263-
134
123
257
4-1
2
7
5-1
3
9
(Koido Youth School)
kite Pref.
103 Komegata Scinen Gakko
Komagata-mura, Ogachi-
April 1935
217
165
382
207
168
375
5-4
2
11
5-4
2
11
(Komagata Youth Schl.)
gun, kite Pref.
104
Konoure Soinen Gekko
Konoura-machi, Yuri-gun, July 1935
278
233
511
225
175
400
7-4
24
7-4 3
14
(Konoure Youth School)
kita Pref.
105
Kosaka Seinon Galko
Kosaka-machi, Kazuno-
July 1935
76
210
286
367
165
532
4-6
4-1
15
4-6
4-1
15
(Kosaka Youth School)
gun, kita Prof.
106
Koshiyamc Scincn Gekko
Yamasc-mura, Kita-Akita- May 1946
80
47
127
39
42
81.
.0-2
1
3
02
..1
3
(Koshiyama Youth Schl.)
gun, Akita Pref.
107 Kotano Soinon Gakko
Yodokaw-ura, Semboku- July.1935
86
66
152
88
72
160
0-3
0-3
1-1
(Kotano Youth School)
gun, kita Prof.
108
Korakubi Seinen Gakko
Kowakubi-mura, Senboku- pril 1935
102
90
192
94
96
190
0-4
1-1
6
0-4
1-1
6
(Kowakubi Youth Sch1.)
gun, kita Prof.
09 Koyoshi Scinon Gakko
Koyoshimura, Yuri-gun, July 1935
199
169 368
134
94
228
4
2
6
4
2
6
(Koyoshi Youth School)
kita Prof.
10
Kmosana Soinon Gakko
Kumoscwa-mure, Somboku- pril 1935
164
118
282
160
113.
273
2-7 2-1
12
2-7
2-1
12
(Kumosawn Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
Kurokava Scinen Gakko
Kurokava-mura, Hiraka-
March 1916
136
100
236
145:100
245
2-41-2
9
2-4 1-29
(Kurokava Youth School)
gun, kita Prof.
Lhido Soinon Gakko
Lnida-mura, Kita-Akita- July 1926
333 267 600
332
261
593
4-5
3-1. 13
4-5 3-1 39
(mida Youth School)
gun, kita Prof.
Manaka Soinon Goldko
Manaka-mure, Kita-kita- April 1935
107
66
173
102 58
160
1-3
0-48
(Ianaka Youth Sohool)
gun, kita Prof.
-4C-

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.98)
NIE
ADDRESS
DTE FOUNDED
TEACHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 p. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
F
114 Masude Soinen Gckko
Mc. suda-nachi, Hiraka-
pril 1935
249
108
357
260
111
371
6-4
2
12
6-4
(insuda Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
115
Masukava Soinon Gakko
Funegaweninato-nachi,
pril 1935
48
28
76
65
27
92
1-6
1-3
11
0-6
-2
8
(msukave Youth Schl.)
Minami-kita-gun,
kite Pref.
116
Intsugasaki Scinon
Hatsugcsaki-mnre, Yuri- July 1935
126
121
247
112
132
244
1-7 1-3
12
1-8
1-5
15
Gáldko (ntsugasaki
gun, kite Pref.
Youth School)
117
Moi jikita Scinen Galko
Hei ji-mure, Ogachi-
Not Givon
105
75
180
104
82
186
1-6
1.
8
1-6
(oi jikita Youth School) gun, kita Pref.
118
Eoi jininami Seinon Galko Moi ji-mure, Ogachi-
pril 1935
152
103
255
152
103
255
1-5
1-2
9
1-5 1-2 9
(bijnnami Youth Schl.)
gun, kita Pref.
119
Michikawa Soinen Gakko
Michikava-mura, Yuri-
July 1935
105
136
241
120
119
239
1-7
1-12
21
1-8
1-12 22
(Michikawa Youth Schl.)
gun, kita Pref.
120
Mie Seinon Gakko
Vie-mura, Hiraka-
pril 1935
186
110
296
167
96
263
4-1
2-1
8
4-1
2-1
8
(Mie Youth School)
gun, ite Pref.
121
Linaminaraoka Seinon
Linaminaracka-mura,
pril 1935
149
94
243
158. 87
245
1-5
2-1
9
1-5
2-1
Gakko (Minaninaraoka
Semboku-gun, ite
Youth School)
Pref.
122
inamiutetsu Scinon
Minamiutetsu-mura, Yuri- July 1935
127
66
193
21788
305
1-7 1-2
11
1-7 1-2
Gakko (Minamiutetsu
gun, kita Pref.
Youth School)
123
Minoyoshikawa Seinen
Mineyoshikaa-mura,
pril 1935
70
70
140
73
87
160
2-3
1
6
2-3
Gokko (Hineyoshikawa
Semboku-gun,
Youth School)
kite Pref.
124
Miseki Seinen Galko
Miscki-mura, Ogachi-
pril 1935
133
95
228
140
102
242
2-5
2~2
11
2-5
(Miseki Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
125
Mitsunashi Soinen Gakko
Mitsunashi-mura, Ogachi-pril 1935
165
139
304
167
141
308
2-6
11
10
2-6
(Mitsunashi Youth Schl.)
gun, kitc Prof.
山.
-11-

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.98)
NLIE
4DDRESS
DITE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TEACHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
M
F
T
21
F
T
F
T
126
Mva Seinen Galdko
Miva-mura, Ogachi-
ril 1935
211
250
461
269
193
462
3-6
2-2
13
3-6
2-2
13
(Miwa Youth School)
gun, Akita Pref.
127
Miyakawa Seinen Gakko
Miyakava-mura,. Kezuno-
pril 1943
193
140
333
178
137
315
4-4
3
11
4-4
3
11
(Miyekawe Youth School)
gun, ita ref.
128
Moritake Seinen Gakko
Horitake-mure, Yamamo-
June 1911
95
66
161
95
75
170
2-4
1-2
9
2-4
1-2
9
(Iori take Youth School)
to-gun, kita Pref.
129
Motonishimonai Seinen Gakko
Hotonishimonai-machi, 0- April 1935
158
123
281
108
68
176
2-2
4-2
10
2-2
4-2
10
(Lptonishimmi Youth Schl.)
gachi-gun, kita Pref.
130
Lutsuai Seinen Gakko
Lutsuai-mura, Hiraka-
pril 1935
274
217
491
274
217
491
2-8
3
13
2-8
3
13
(Lutsuai Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
131
Nagaki Seinen Gakko
Nageki-mure, Kita-ki- July 1935
79
84
163
92
51
143
0-4
1
5
3-1
1
5
(Negaki Youth School)
to-gun, ita Pref.
132
Nagano Seinen Gekko
Na gano-ma chi, Semboku-
July 1935
309
137
446
274
202
476
5-4
4-1
14
5-4
4-1
14
(Nagano Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
133
Nagashinata Seinen Gakko
Nagashinata-mura, Sem-
July 1935
184
143
327
172
130
302
1-7
1-3
12
1-7 1-3
12
(Nagashinata Youth Schl.)
boku-gun, kita Pref.
134
Nakagara Seinen Gakko
Nakagawa-nura, Semboku- pril 1935
107
76
183
107
76
183
2-4
1-1
8
2-4.1-1
8
(NakagavaYouth School)
gun, kite pref.
35
Nakayodokawa Seinen Gakko
Yodokawa-mure, Semboku- pril 1935
63
48
111
43
37
80
0-2
1-1
4
02
1-1
4
(Nakayodokawe Youth Schl.)
gun, kita Prof.
36
Nanakura Seinen Gakko
Nanakuraimaizuni, Kita- pril 1935
76
54.130
76
54
130
4
1-1
6
4
1-1
6
(Nanakura Youth School)
kita-gun, kita Pref.
37
Nanctaki Seinon Gdk ko
Nanetaki-mura, Kazuno- July 1926
147
105 252
148
109
257
5-1
3-1
10
5-1 3-110
(Nanatekd Youth School)
gun, ita Pref.
38
Nanokeichi Scinon Gekko
Nenokaichi-mura, Kita- pril 1935
224
170
394
206
149
355
4-7
3-3
17
4-7 3-3 17
(Nanokaichi Youth School)
ikita-gun, kita rof.
39
Naono Soinen Gakko
Neone-mura, Yuri-gun,
July 1935
184
167 351
184
143.
327:2-10 2-4
18
1-11 3-5 20
(Naone Youth School)
Akita Pref.
40
Nirda Seinen Gakko
Niida-mura, Kewabe-
July 1935
140
182
322
133
.100
233 1-6 .1-3 11 16
L311
(Niida Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
42

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.98)
TE CHERS
NIE
LDDLS3
DTE FOUMDED
30 pr. 46
30 N. 40
30r.46
30 Nov. 46
E
F
T
M
F
T
三
F
T
X
Niida-mura, Kita-Akita- April 1926
123
59
182
145
63
208
2-6
1
9
2-6 1
9
141
Niida Seinen Galko
(Niida Youth School)
gun, Akita Pref.
142
Nishidate Seinen Gakko
Nishidate-mura, Kita-
July 1935
175
100
275
159
84
243
1-6
1-1
9
1-6 1-1 9
(Nishidate Youth Schl.)
Akita-gun. Akita Pref.
143
Nishikigi Seinen Galkio
Nishikigi-mura, Kazuno-
July 1935
143
86
229
149
81
230
4-3
2
9
4-3
2
9
(Nishikigi Youth Schl.)
gun, Akita Prèf.
132
207
389
181
205
386
2-7
2-5
16
1-12 2-3
18
144
Nishime Seinen Gakko
Nishime-mura, Yuri-gun, July 1935
(Nishime Youth School)
Nishimonai-Aza, Ogachi- April 1935
Akita Pref.
343
208
551
323
197
520
7-5
6-1
19
7-5.
7
19
145. Ni shimonei Seinen Gakko
(Nishimonai Youth Schl.) gun, Akita Pref.
146
Nishinaruse Seinn Gakko
Nishinaruse-mura, Oge-
April 1935
143
84
227
141.
86
227
4-2
6
4-2
6
147
Nishitekizawa Seinen :
(Nishinaruse Youth Schl.)
chi-gun, kita Pref.
Nishitakizawa-mura,
July 1935.
248
112
360
122
89
211
5-3
2-1
11
6-3
2-1
12
Gakko (Nishitakizawa
Yuri-gun, Akita pref.
Youth School)
148
Noishi Seinen Gakko
Noishi-mura, Hinami-A-
April 1935
101
101
202
101
101
202
0-6
1-4
11
0-6 1-411
149
Nozoki-Seinen Gakko
(Noishi Youth School)
Minaminaraoka-mura, Sem- 4pril 1935
kita-gun, Akita Pref.
116
93
209
115
93
208
1-3
1-1
6
1316
(Nozoki Youth School)
boku-gun, Akita Pref.
150
Numadate Seinen Gakko
Numa date-machi, Hiraka- April 1935
247
184
431
252
180
432
7-3
3
13
7-3313
(Numadate Youth School)
gun, Akita Pref.
151
Oani Seinen Gakko
Cani-mura, Kita-Akita-
July 1919
202
220
422
212
285. 497
2-10 0-4
16
2-10 0-416
(Oani Youth School)
gun, Lkita Pref.
152
Obonai Seinen Gakko
Obonai-mura, Semboku-
4pril 1935
180
146
326
170
144
314
3-3
4-3
13
(Obonai Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
153
Ochiai Seinen Gakko
Ochiai-mura, Kita-Akita- pril 1935
129
78
207
138
95
233
1-4.
(Ochiai Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
154
Odate Seinen Gekko
Odate-machi, Kita-kita- March 1944.
374
135 509 327
244 571
(Odate Youth School)
gun, Akita Pref.
-43-

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.98)
NAME
4DDRESS
DTE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TEACHERS
30 r. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
 F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
Oganaka Seinen Gakko
Oganaka-mura, Minami-.
pril 1935
148
106
254
148
106
254
1-5
1-3
10
1-5
1-3
10
(Oganaka Youth School)
kita-gun, kita Pref.
6
Oguriyama Seinen Gakko
Nishinaruse-mura, Ogu-
pril 1935
88
97
185
80
73
153
42
2-2
10
4-2
2-2
10
(Oguriyama Youth Schl.)
chi-gun, kitá Pref.
Okawa Seinen Gakko
Okawa-mura, Minami-Lkita- July 1935
78
74
152
76
52
128
1-4
1-2
8
1-4
1-2
8
(Okawa Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
Okawanishine Seinen Gakko
Okawanishine-mura, Sem- April 1935
104
79
183
101
86
187
1-3
1-1
6
1-3
1-1
6
(dkawanishine Youth Schl.)
boku-gun, kita pref.
Okumiya Seinen Gakko
Minase-mura, Ogachi-
pril 1935
153
127
280
155
133
288
7-3
3-3
16
7-3
3-3
16
(Okumiya Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
Okuzu Seinen Gakko
Okuzu-mura, Kita-kita-
July 1935
127
86
213
107
82
189
0-4
01
5
0-4
0-1
(Okuzu Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
Omagari Seinen Gakko
Omagari-machi, Semboku-
4pril 1935
267
275
542
265
268
533
5-3
3-1
12
5-3
3
11
(Omagari Youth School)
gun, ikita Pref.
2
Omokata Seinen Gakko
Omokata-mura, Minami-ki- Dec. 1944
201
99
300
150
110
260
5-2
2
9
5-2
2
9
(Omokata Youth School)
ta-gun, kita Pref.
Omori Seinen Gakko
Arakawa-mura, Semboku-
July 1935
50
26
76
37
22
59
1-1
1
3
1-1
1
3
(Omori Youth School)
gun, Akita Pref.
Omori Seinen Gakko
Omori-machi, Hiraka-
pril 1935
108
82
190
134
60
194
3-1
2
6
3-1
2
6
(Omori Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
Ono Seinen Gakko
Onomura, Ogachi-gun,
April 1935 136
110
246
110
246
1-5
1-3
10
1-5
1-3
10
(Ono Youth School)
Akita Pref.
Osarizawa Seinen Gakko
Osarizawa, Kazuno-gun,
Lpril 1935 111
230
341
342
261
603
2-5
3-2
12
2-53
10
(Osarizawa Youth Sohl.)
kita Pref.
Osawago Seinen Gakko
Osawago-mura, Semboku-
4pril 1935 306
193
499
263
161
424
1-7 1-4 13
1-7 14
13
(Osawago Youth School)
gun, Akita Pref.
Otomo Seinen Gakko
Otomo-mura, Yuri-gun,
July 1935
103·224
327
213
94
307
1-7
2-7 1-4
(Otomo Youth School)
kita Pref.
Oyu Seinen Gakko
Oyu-machi, Kazuno-gun,
0ot. 1906
251
162
413
297 177
474
7-4
4-2
17
7-4
(Oyu Youth School)
kita pref.
44-

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.99)
NAME
ADDPESS
DATE FOUNDED
TEACHETS
30 46
30 NOr. 46
30 4p. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
M
F
T
170 Rokugo Seinen Gakko
Rokugo-machi, Semboku-
July 1933
259
136
395
242
125
367
3-8
3-1
15
3-8 3-1 15
(Rokago Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
171
Saimyoji Seinen Gakko
Saimyoji-mure, Semboku- pril 1935
218
129 347
218
129
347
4-3
3-1
11
4-3 3-1 11
(Saimyo ji :Youth Schl.)
gun, kita. Pref.
172
Sakae Seinen Gakko
Sakae nura, Hirake-gun. pril 1935
168
138
306
172
140
312
2-4
3-1
10
2-4 3-1
10
(Sakae Youth School)
Lkita Pref.
173
Sakaimachi Seinen Galko
Sakaimachi-mura, Hiraka- pril 1913
122
109
231
122
144
266
6-1
3
10
6-1
10
(Sakeimachi Youth Schl.) gun, kita Pref.
174
Sannai Seinen Gekko
Sannai-aza, Hiraka-gun, 4pril 1935
321
308
629
327
334
661
5-12 2-9
28
5-12 2-9
28
(Sannai Youth School)
kita Pref.
175 Sasako Seinen Gakko
Sasako-mura, Yuri-gun,
July 1935
228
172
400
230
169
399
1-12 04
17
1-12 0-4
(Sasako Youth School)
Akita Pref.
176
Satomi Seinen Gakko
Satomi-mura, Hiraka-gun. pril 1935
169
95
264
147
88
235
4-1
2
7
4-1 2
7
(Satomi Youth School)
kita pref.
177
Sawaguchi Seinen Gakko
Sawaguchi-mura, Kita-- pril 1935
95
71
166
95
71
166
3-1 1-1
6
3-1 1-1 6
(Sawaguchi Youth Schl.)
kita-gun, kita Pref.
178 Sawame Seinen Gakko
Sawame-mura, Yamamoto
Jan. 1907
44
75
119
55
50
105
2-7
1-1
2-5 1-1 9
(Savame Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
179 Sendo Seinen Gakko
Sendo-mura, Ogachi-gun, pril 1935
123
96
219
123
96
219
3-2
1
6
3-2
(Sendo Youth School)
kita Prof.
180
Senye Seinen Gakko
Senya-mura, Semboku-
July 1935
275
248
523
214
181
395
4-2
3-1
10
4-2 3-1 10
(Sonya Youth School)
gun, Akita Pref.
181
Shakanai Seinen Gakko
Shakanai-mura, Kita-Lki- July 1935
150
89
239
199
106
305
1-5
028
(Shakanai Youth Schl.)
ta-gun, kita Pref.
182 Shibahira Seinen Gakko
Shibahira-mura, Kezuno- July 1935
251
241
492
231
217448
5-2
(Shibahira Youth School)
gun, Akita Pref.
183 Shimizu Seinen Gakko
Shimizu-mura, Hinoki-
April 1935 127
93
220
160
90
250
4-3
(Shimizu Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
184 Shimogo Seinen Gakko
Shimogo-mure, Yuri-gun,
April 1935 301 242
543
250
192
442
6-6
(Shimogo Youth School)
Akita Prof.
-45-

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.98)
NLE
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
30 p. 46
ENROLLMENT
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
TEACHERS
30 40r. 46
F
T
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
July 1935
128
122
250
95
68
163
1-8
1-6
16
1-8
16
16
185 Shimohama Seinen Gakko Shimohama-mure, Yuri-
(Shimohama Youth Schl.) gun; Akita Pref.
119
106
225
105
104
209
2-6
1-3
12
2-6 1-3
186 Shimoigama Seinen Gakko Shimoigawa-mura, Minami- July 1935
(Shimoigawa Youta Schl.) kita-gun, kita Pref.
120
88
208
123
87
210
3-3
2-3
11
11
187 Shimoivakawa Seinen CEkko Shinoiwakawa-mura, Yema- June 1917
(Simaiwakawa Youth Schl.) moto-gin, Akita Pref.
188
3 Shimokawacuchi Seinen
Shimokawaouchi-mure,
July 1935
244
195
439
238
166
404
19 1-5
16
1-10 1-5 17
Gakko (Shimokaweouchi
Yuri-gun, kita Pref.
Youth School)
189
Shimokawasoc Scinen Gakko Shimokewasoe-mura, Kita- July 1935
91
53
144
91
53
144
1-5 1
7
1-5 1
7
(Shimokawasoo Youth: Schl;) kite-gun, kite Pref.
89
107 196
114
94
208
6-1 1-3 11
6-1 1-3 11
190 Shimokitade Seinen Gekdko Shimokitede-mure, Kave- July 1935
(Shimokitade Youth Schl.) be-gun, kita Pref.
191
Shimoono Seinen Gakko
Shimoono-mure, Kita-ki- pril 1935 124
183
124
53
177
1-5
1
7
1-5 1
7
(Shimoono Youth School)
ta-gun, kita Pref.
192 Shimoshin jo Seinen Gakko
Shimoshin jo-mura, Minami- pril 1935 135
149
284
117
136
253
3-3
2
8
3-4 2
9
(Shimoshin jo Youth Schl.) kita-gun, kite Prof.
193 Shinnari Seinen Gakko
Shinnari-mura, Ogachi-
4pril 1935 169
70
239
171
57
228
5-2
2-2
11
5-2 2-2
11
(hinnari Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
194 Shiraiwa Scinen Gakko
Shiraiwa-murc, Semboku-. Lpril 1935 125
97
222
132
82
214
3-5
1-2
11
3-5 1-2.11
(Shiraima Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
95
Showa Scinen Gakko
Shova-machi, Minami-ki- pril 1944 299
305
604
257 247
504
7-3
5
15
7-2 5
14
(Showe Youth School)
ta-gun, kita Pref.
Sotoasahikawa Seinen
Sotoasahikava-mure, Mina- July 1935 92
83
175
101
80
181
1~6
1-412
1-6 1-412
Gakko (Sotoasahikava
mi-kita -gun, kite Pref.
Youth School)
Sotootomo Scinen Gakko
Sotootomo-mura, Semboku- April 1935 142
105
247
247  0-4 1-1 6
0-42-16
(Sotootomo Youth Schl.)
gun, kita Pref.
Sugawa Seinen Gakko
Sugawa-mura, Ogachi-gun, pril 1935 66
95
161
94.74
168
1-2
1371214
(Sugawe Youth School).
kita Prof.
-.46

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.98)
NALE
ADDRE'S
DATE FT ED
1260F
30 r. 40
30 740
30 . 46
30 NoT. 46
M
F
T
F
T
I1
F
T
I1
T
199
Sugisawa Seinen Gakko
Babanome-mura, Minami-
July 1935
64
41
105
64
42
106
1-4
1-1
7
1-4
1-1
7
(Sugisawa Youth School)
Akita-gun, kita Pref.
200
Taihei Seinen Gakko
Taihei-mura, inami-ki- July 1935
198
147
345
193
181
374
2
1
3
2
2
(Taihei Youth School)
-te-, kita Pref.
201
Takamatsu Seinen Gakko
Sukawa-ura, Ogachi-
pril 1935
137
127
264
172
113
285
1-6
1-3
11
(Takamatsu Youth Schl.)
gun, kita Pref.
202
Takanashi Seinen Gakko
Takanashi-mura, Sembo
July 1935
232
75
307
233
76
309
2-7
2-1
12
2-7
2-1
12
(Takanashi Youth Schl.)
ku-gun, kita Pref.
203
Takanosu Seinen Gakko
Takanosu-machi, Kita-i-
July 1935
124
67
191
124
67
191
5-2
2-2
11
5-2
2-2
11
(Takenosu Youth School)
kita-gun, kita Pref.
204
Tamayone Seinen Gakko
Tamayone-mura, Yuri-gun, July 1935
176
128
304
133
127
260
2-8
2-1
13
1-11
1-2 15
(Tamayone Youth School)
kita Pref.
205
Tanehira Seinen Gakko
Tanehira, Kavabe-gun,
July 1935
100
76
176
102
75
177
1-5
1-2
9
1-5
1-2
9
(Tanehira Youth School)
Lkita Pref.
206
Tanemori Seinen Gakko
Tanemori-mura, Hiraka-
June 1926
223
173
396
223
173
396
4-24
10
4-2 4
10
(Tanemori Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
207
Taneume Seincn Gakko
Tancume-mura, Yamamoto-
July 1935
128
105
233
136
99
235
3-2
3-1
9
3-2 3-2
10
(Taneume Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
208
Tashiro Seinen Gakko
Tashiro-mura, Ogachi-
July 1935
136
133
269
228
148.
376
5-5 2-3 15
5-5 2-3 15
(Tashiro Youth School)
gun, Akita Pref.
209
Tateai Seinen Gakko
Tatcai-mura, Hiraka-gun, April 1935
161
85
246
161
85
246
4-1
2
7
4-12
(Tateai Youth School)
kita Pref.
210
Tateiwa Seinen Gakko
Minase-mure, Ogachi-gun, July 1935
122
92
214
122
113
235
142-2
9
142-2
(Tateiwa Youth School)
kita Pref.
211
Tazawa Seinen Gakko
Tazama-mura, Semboku-
April 1935
127
89
216. 118
88
206
2-3. 1-2
2-91=2
(Tazawa Youth School)
gun, Akita Pref.
212
Ten jin Seinen Gakko
Nanakura-mura, Kita-Aki- April 1935
49
44
93
49
44.93
(Ten jin Youth School)
ta-gun, kita Pref.
213
Tenno Seinen Gakko
Tenno-mura, Minami-ki- April 1935
320
306
626
2141934074-64
(Tenno Youth School)
te-gun, kita Pref.
--47

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.99)
NALE
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLIMENT
TEACHERS
30,p. 46
30 Nov. 46
30.36
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
214 Teredate Seinen Gakko
Kovakubi-mura, Semboku- July 1935
75
50
125
75
45
120
1-3
1-1
6
1-3
1-1
6
(Tcradate Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
215
Toga Seinen Gekko
Toga-mura, Minami-Aki- April 1935
80
144
81
57
138
1-5
1-1
8
1-5
1-1
8
(Toga Youth School)
ta-gun, kita Pref.
216
Tokiwa Seinen Gakko
Tokiva-mura, Yamamoto- July 1920
132 71
203
143
79
222
3-5
1-1
10
3-5
1-1
10
(Tokiva Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
217
Tomegave Seinen Gakko
Tomegava-murc, Kawabe- 4pril 1935
109 89
193
110
80
190
2-5
1-2
10
1-5
1-2
9
(Tomegawa Youth School)
gun, Akita pref.
218
Tomine Scinon Gakko
Tomino-mura. Yamamoto- Feb. 1906
105
96.
201
105
101
206
2-1
1
4
3-3
2
8
(Tomino Youth School)
gun, kita Pruf.
219
Toyoiva Scinen Gakko
Toyoiwa-nure, Kawabo
April 1935
151 92 243
148
92
240
2-5
1-3
11
2-5
1-3
11
(Toyoiwa Youth School)
gun, kite Pref.
220
Toyokava Scinen Gakko
Toyokava-mura, Semboku- ug. 1935
119
88
207
76
56
132
2.4
1-1
8
2-4
1-1
8
(Toyokava Youth School)
gun, Lkita pref.
221
Toyooka Seinen Gakko
Toyooka-mura, Somboku- Lpril 1935
156
90
246
153
86
239
16
1
8
1-6
1
8
(Toyooka Youth School)
gun, ita Pref.
222
Tsubaki Scinen Gakko
Tsubakiazahigashidate, pril 1935
60
68
128
58
66
124
1-5
23
10
1-5
1-2
9
(Tsubaki Youth School)
Minami-kita-gun,
kita Pref.
223
Tsubekikawe Scinen Gakko Higashinaruse-mure,  April 1935
154
104
258
142
86
228
4-2
1-1
8
4-2
1-1
8
(Tsubikawa Youth Schl.) gachi-gun, kita Pref.
224 Tsuchikawa Scinen Gakko Tsuchikawa-mura, Sem-
July 1935
164
150
314
134
108
252
3-6°3
12
3-6 3
12
(Tsuchikawa Youth Schl.) boku-gun, kita Pref.
225
Tsurugata Soinen Gakko
Tsurugata-mire, Yame-
Doc. 1911
73
59
132
69
60
129
3-1.2-1
7
3-1 2-1
(Tsurugata Youth School) moto-gun, kita Pref.
226 Tsuzuriko Soinon Gakko Tsuzuriko-mura, Kita-
July 1935
109
86
195
136
157
293.
2-5
1
8.
251
8
(Tsuzuriko Youth Schl.) Akita-gun, kita Prof.
227 Uchikavn Seinon Gakko
Uchikava-mura, Minami-
July 1935
89
72
161
91
70
161
1-4 1-3 9
(Uchikawa Youth School)
Akita-gun, kita Prof.
228 Uchiotomo Seinon Gakko
Uchiotomo-mura, Scmbo
4pril 1935
241
463. 242 171. 413 2-4
2210
(Uchiotomo Youth Schl.) ku-gun, Akita Pref.
-48

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.98)
NiME
ADDRE'S
DATE URLED
TELCLIS
30 pr. 40
50 40
30 p.46
30 Nov. 46
II
F
T
M
F
T
11
F
T
229
Ueta Scinen Gakko
Uota-mura, Hiraka-gun,
pril 1946
212
126
338
173
135
308
4-7
1-2
14
4-7 1-2 14
(Ueta Youth School)
kite Prof.
230
Ukawa Seinon Gek'to
Yamenoto
March 1920
185
118
303
117
110
227
2-6
2-1
11
2-6 2-1 11
(Ukawa Youth School)
gu. thive Pref.
231
Unoki Seinen Galtko
Ktanishi-mura, Minami-
April 1935
135
124
259
135
124
259
24
1-2
8
1-4 1-2 8
(Unoki Youth School)
kita-gun, Akita Pref.
232
Wada Seinen Cakko
Wada-machi, Kanebo-gun,
March 1944
361
443
804
349
243
592
5-2
3-1
11
5-242
13
(made Youth School)
Akita Pref.
233
Wakimoto Scinon Gakko
Wakimoto-mura, Minami-
pril 1935
246
170
416
237
161
398
5-2
2
9
5-2 2
9
(Wakimoto Youth School)
Akita-gun, Akita Pref.
A5
234
Yamada Seinen Gakko
Yamada-mura, Ogachi-gun, April 1935
·236
106
342
318
94
412
4-3
2
9
4-32
9
(Yamada Youth School)
kita Pref.
235
Yamada Scinen Gakko
Yamese-mura, Kita-kita- May 1928
87
26
113
154
26
180
0-3
1
4
0-3 1
4
(Yamada Youth School)
gun, kita Prof.
236
Yamaso Scinen Gakko
Yamasc-mura, Kita-kita- pril 1935
21
29
50
21
29
50
1
2-2.5
1
2-2
5
(Yamasc Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
237
Yasawagi Daiichi Scinen
Yasawagi-mura, Hirake- 4pril 1935
170
86
256
190
97
287
1-7
2-2
12
1-8
2-1
12
Gakko (Yasawagi First
gun, ikita Prof.
Youth School)
238
Yesewagi Soinen Gakko
Yasavagi-mura, Hiraka-
Not Given
121
51
172
86
39
125
1-5
2-2
10
1-5
2-2
10
(Yasawagi Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
239
Yashima Seinen Gakko
Yashima-machi, Yuri-
April 1944
373
357
730
279
257
536
6-2
2
10
6-2
2
10
(Yeshima Youth School)
gun, kita Prof.
240
Yatato Seinon Gakko
Yatate-mura, Kita-Lkita- pril 1935
120
126
246
120
126
246
2-2
3-2
9
2-2
1-1
6
(Yatato Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
241
Yodokawe Seinen Gakko
Yodokawa-mura, Semboku- 4pril 1935
55
49
104
55
57
112
2-5
1-1
9
2-4
1-1
(Yodokawa Youth School)
gun, kita Prof.
242
Yokobori Seinen Gakko
Yokobori-mura, Semboku- April 1935
219
175
394
219
175
394
1-5
1-2
9
15
9
(Yokobori Youth Sch ool)
gun, ita Pref.
243
Yokobori Seinen Gakko
Yokobori-machi, Ogachi- July 1935
98
89
187
70
95
165
1-5
1-5
(Yokobori Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
-49-

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.98)
NAME
ADDRESS
DT FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TE&CHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
3.0 Lpr ..46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
244 Yokoto Seinan Gakko
Yokotc-machi, Hiraka-
4pril 1935
229
459
688
213
200
413
8-2
4
14
8-2
4
14
(Yokoto Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
245
Yokozava Seinen Gakko
Yokozawa-mura, Seniboku- July 1935
238
126
364
258
134
392
1-8
1-1
11
1-8
1-1 11
(Yokozawc Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
246
Yonaizawa Scinen Galko
Yonaizava, Kita-ikita-
July 1935
128
157
285
101
133
234
5-8
2-1
16
5-8
2-1
16
(Yonaizama Youth School) gun, kita Pref.
247
Yonota Seinon Gelko.
Kc sugomura, Yaneno to-
pril 1936
63
67
130
62
59
121
1-4
0-2
7
1-4 03
8
(Yoneta Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
248
Yoshida Seinon Gakko
Yoshida-mura, Hiraka-
pril 1935
289
171
460
289
170
459
2-1. 1-1. 5 . 2-1
1-1
5
(Yoshida Youth School)
gun, kita Pref.
249
Yotsugoyu Scinon Gakko
Yotsugoya-mura,Kawube-
pril 1935
55
60
115
55
60
115
2-5 1-3. 11: 2-5
11
(Yotsugoya Youth Schl.)
gun, Ikite Pref.
250
Yotsuya Scinen Gakko
Yotsuya-mura, Somboku-
July 1935
129
73
202
152
106
258
2-8. .2-3
15
2-8
2-3
15
(Yotsuya Youth School)
gun, Akita irof.
251
Yusama Soinon Gakko
Yuzava-machi, Ogachi-
pril 1944
294
237
531
414
229
643
5-2 5
12
6-3
13.
(Yuzawa Youth School)
gun, Akita Pref.
Total
39108 30811 69919 39080 28729 67809 674-1022
2499
692-1034
2538
437-366
441-371
-50

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.96)
LKITA PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JAPANESE LDUCATIONL INSTITUTINS
IV. VILLIGE OR TOWN SCHOCLS
B. Elcmontery Education (Shoto Kyoiku)
1. Elomontary Schools (Sho Gakko)
a) Elomentary Schools for Boys (Denshi Sho Gakico) undor the Control of Village or Towm Office, Akita Prcfecturo
NLE
DDRESS
DITE FOUNDED
ENROLIMENT #
TE CHERS
30 .46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
X
F
T
11
F
T
II
F
T
F
T
Hon jo Sho Ga liso (Hon jo
Hon jo-machi, Yuri-
Doc. 1873
153
153
153
153
26
13
39
29.
41
Elementary School)
gun, kita Pref.
2
Yokote Danshi Sho Gakko
Yokoto-nachi, Hiraka-
sept. 1897
1971
1971
1985
1985
23
17
40
23
17
40
(Yokote Boyst Elementary
gun, Akite Pref.
School)
3
Yuzama Sho Gakko (Yuzana
Yuzawa-machi, Ogachi-
Nov. 1903
1447
1447
1423
1423
15
11
26
21
11
32
Elemcatary School)
gun, kita Pref.
Total
3571
3571
3561
3561
64
41
105
73
40
113
IV. VILLAGE OR TOWN SCHOOLS
B. Elomontary Education (Shoto Kyoiku)
1. Elomentary Schools (Sho Gakko)
b) Elementary Schools for Girls (Joshi Sho Gakko) under the Control of Village or Town office, kite Prefecture
#
NME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLIMENT
TEACHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30.pr.46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
I
F
T
II
F
T
M
T
1 Hon jo Joshi Sho Gakko (Ho- Hon jo-machi, Yuri-
Oct. 1906
1399
1399
1418 1418
11
15
26
njo Girlst Elementary Schl.) gun, kita Pref.
2
Yokoto Joshi Sho Gekko (Yo- Yokote-machi, Hiraka-
Junc 1911
1998 1998
1977 1977
14
23.37
1622
38
kote Girls' Elamentary Schl.)gun, kita Pref.
3
Yuzawa Joshi Sho Galko
Yuzawa-machi, Ogachi-
April 1906
1406 1406
1444 2444
11
(Yuzawa Girls' Elemontary
gun, Akita Pref.
School)
Total
4803
4803
4839 4839 36
# These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the sphool records as of thoe
一五1一

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.98)
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
AKIT4 PREFECTURE
AKITA
IV. VILLLGE OR TOWN SCHOOLS
B. Elenentary Education (Shoto Kyoiku)
1. Elenentary Schools (Sho Gakko)
c) Co-educationel Elementary Schools (Dan-Jo Kyogaku Sho Gakko) under the Control of Village or Town office, Lkita Prefecture
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TEACHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr.
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
1 go Sho Galko (Lgo
Age-nura, Hirake-gun,
Oct. 1874
305 312
617
300
300
600
11
8
19
9
7
16
Elemontary School)
kita Pref.
2
kagawa Sho Gakko (kaga- Yarase-mure, Kita-ikita- Oct. 1875
104.141
245
103133
236
5
4
9
5
4
9
w Elemontary School)
gun, kita Pref.
Akahira Sho Gelko (ka-
Wede-machi: Kewabe-gun, June 1875
105 113. 218
108
117
225
4
3
7
4
3
7
hira Elementary School)
kita Pref.
4
kebono Sho Gakko (ke-
Lkebono-mura, Kazuno
July 1874
313
225
538
312
233
545
6
7
13
6
7
13
bono Elenentary School)
gun, Akita Pref.
5
kinomiya Daichi Sho
Akinamiya-mure, Ogechi- dug. 1878
197
185
382
189
183
372
4
5
9
4
5
9.
Gakko (Akinomiya. First
gun, kite Pref.
Elenontary School)
6
Akinoniya Daini Sho Geko kinoniya-mure, Ogachi- April 1887
206
232
438
206
232
438
6
4
10
6
4
10
(Akinaniya Sccond Elenon- gun, Akite Pref.
tary School) *
7
Akuchi Sho Gakko (kuchi
Kanezawe-nachi, Senboku- Doc. 1879
286
258 544
274 279
553
11
7
4
11
Elenentary School)
gun, Ikita Frof.
8
niai Sho Gakko (niai
Iniei-mechi, Kita-kita- dug. 1874
436
410
3yú. 413
809
14
6
20
17
6
23
Elementary School)
gun, kita Pref.
9
inzen ji Sho Gakko (inzen- itaura-nachi, Minami-. Oct. 1877
57.58
115
57
58
115
2
2
4
2
ji Elenentery School)
Akita-gun, Akita Pref.
0
Arakawe Sho Gakko (Ara-
Arekawa-nure, Senboku- June 1900
92
96.
188
92
94
186
3
1
4
3
1
kawa Elenentary School)
gun, ite Pref.
These figures aro not those for ectual attendance on these detes, but thoso for enrollment on the school records as of these dat.
The figures for this institution include those for two branch schools under the same administration.
-52-

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.98)
NAME
DDRESS
DTE FOUNDED
TELCHERS
30 pr. 46
30 NoV. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
1
F
T
N
F
T
11
Lrase Sho Gakko (iraso
Arase Nakano, Kita-Aki-
June 1875
96
84
180
92
82
174
3
1
4
3
1
4
Elementary School)
ta-gun, ite Pref.
12
sabi Sho Gakko (Lsa-
Asakama-mura, Sonbeku-
July 1374
237
286
523
241
279
520
4
6
10
4
6
10
hi Elenentary School)
gun, ikita Pref.
13
Aschi Sho Gakko (asa-
Asahi-mure, Hirake-gun,
Nov. 1874
445
423
868
447
8668
9
17
9
10
19
hi Elenentary School)
Akita Pref.
14
Asekava Sho Gekko (Lsa-
4sanau-mura, Yannnoto-
Nov. 1875
457
383
840
420
376796
9
9
18
10
9
19
kewe Elenentary School)
gun, -kita Pref.
15
Asakura Sho Gakko (sa-
Yokote-machi, Hiraka-gun, April 1874
399
407
606
393
394
787
11
12
23
11
12
23
kura Elementary Scheol)
Akita Pref.
16
sanae Sho Galko (sa-
Asanac-nachi, Hiraka-gun, April 1874
832
741
1573
819
735
1554
14
19.
33
16
17
33
mao Elcnentary School)*
Akita Pref.
17
Ayukawa Sho Gakko (Ayu-
Ayukawa-mure, Yuri-gun,
March 1874
188
175
363
187
180
367
5
4
9
6
5
11
kawa Elenentary School)
Akite Pref.
18
Babanone Sho Gakko (Ba-
Babanome-nura, Minani--
Feb. 1885
216
190
406
212
190
402
5
4
5
4
9
banone Elenentary Schl.)
kita-gun, Akita Pref.
19
Benten Sho Gakko (Ben-
Benten-nura, Ogachi-gun, pril 1887
331319
650
332
315
647
6
10
16
6
10
16
ten Elenentery School)
kita Pref.
20
Bosawa Sho Gakko (Bosa-
Bosawa, Kita-Lkita-gun,
ug.1877
246
241
487
240
248
488
5
7
12
6
7
13
we Elenentary School)*
Akita Pref.
21
Bussha Sho Gakko (Bu-
Kanikcani-nura, Kita-Aki- May 1882
126
148 274
126
149
275
6.
2
8
6
3
9
ssha Elenentary School)* ta-gun, ikita Pref.
22
Daigo Sho Galkko (Daigo
Daigo-mura, Hiraka-gun, ug. 1874
674
696
1370
672
682
1354
15
10
25
15
10
25
Elementary School)
Lkita Pref.
23
Daishoji Sho Gekko (Dai- Daishaji-mura, Yuri-gun, Oct. 1873
342
331
673
376
324
700
12
8
20
19
shoji Elenentary Schl.)* kita Pref.
24
Dedo Sho Gakko (Dedo
Tenno-nura, Minani-kita- Sept. 1887
124
139
263
120
132
252
5
.3
8
4
8
Elenentary School)
gun, Akita Pref.
25
Ei Sho Ga kko (Ei
Ei-nura, Kiraka-gun,
March 1874
432
390
·822
432
390
822
9
10
19
10
19
Elenentary School)
Lkita Pref.
电
The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the sane administration.
The figures for this institution include those for four branch schools under the sarie adninistration. - 53

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.98)
NLE
ADDRESS
DTE FOUNDED
ENROLLENR
TEACHERS
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
f
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
Eisawa Sho Gakko (Eisewa Motonishinonai-rura, 0- April 1902
96
91
187
96
91
187
4
1
5
5
2
7
Elenentary School)
gachi-gun, kita Pref.
Ennai Sho Gakko (Ennai
Ennai-nachi, Ogachi-
pril 1874
449
444
893
440
420
860
9
10
19
11
11
22
Elenentary School)
gun, kita Pref.
Ennei Sho Gakko (Ennai
Ennai-nura, Yuri-gun,
Sept. 1874
349
319
668
346
310
656
8
7
15
9
8
17
Elenontery School)
ikita pref.
Fu jiki Sho Gakko (Fu ji-
Fu jiki-nura, Scnboku-
March 1875
341
348
689
328
337
665
6
9
15
7
9
16
ki Elenentery School)
gun, kita pref.
Fujikoto Sho Gakko (Fu ji Fu jikoto-rure, Yananoto- March 1374
554
486
1040
550
491
1041
16
12
28
16
12
26
koto Elenentary Schl.)* gun, Akita Pref.
Fukuchi Sho Gakko (Fuku- Fukuchi-rura, Hiraka-
March 1908
371
351
722
367 356
723
7
10
17
6
11
17
chi Elenentary School)
gun, kita Pref.
Funagava Daiichi Sho
Funegavaninato Izumidai, Feb. 1875
758
766
1524
770
773
1543
16
16
32
18
16
34
Gakko (Funagawa First
Minami-Akita-gun,
Elenentary School)
Akita Pref.
Funagawa Daini Sho Gakko Funagawaninato-machi,
Sept. 1876
186
178 364
186
182 3.68
6
4
10
5
4
9.
(Funagawa Socond Elenen- Minani-Akita-gun,
tary School)
Akita pref.
Funakoshi Sho Gakko (Fu- Funakoshi-nachi, Minani- June 1874
405
412
373
785
8
17
9
9
18
nakoshi Elenentary Schl.) Akita-gun, Lkita Pref.
Funaoka Sho Gakko (Funa- Funaoke-nura, Kawabe-
Feb. 1874
107
107
214
107
107
214
6
4
3
oka Elementary School) gun, kita Pref.
Furudate Sho Gakko (Fu- Kani Kawazoi-mura, Kita- May 19ll
203
157
360
199
161
360
4
5
9
4
5
9
rudate Elenentary Schl.) kita-gun, kita Pref.
Futatsui Sho Gakko (Fu- Futatsui-nachi, Yanano- May 1874
376
374
750
387
371
758
5
12
17
8
12
20.
tatsui Elenentary Schl.) to-gun, kita Pref.
Futto Sho Gekko (Futto
Futto-mura, Minani--
Sept. 1877
402
391
793
402
391
793
7
10
17 . 7.
10
17
Elementary School)
kita-gun, kita pref.
Go jonone Sho Gakko (Go
Gojonone-nachi, Minani-
my 1874
601
507
1108
610
519
1129
11
11
22..
14
11
25
jonome Elenentary Schl.) kita-gun, kita Pref.
The figures for this institution include those for five branch sohools under the same adrinistration. 54

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.98)
NAME
ADDRESS
DITE FOUNDED
ENROLLIENT
TE4CHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
三
F
T
F
T
M.
F
40 Goriai Sho Gakko (Gori-
Goriai-mura, Minami-
ug. 1874
410
382
792
410
383
793
8
9
17
8
ai Elenentary School)
kite-gun, kita Pref.
41
Habiro Sho Gakko (Hebi-
Kenikawaouchi-mure, Yu- Feb. 107
73
85
163
80
87
167
7
1
3
7
8
ro Elenentary School)*
ri-gun, kita Pref.
42
Hanada Sho Gakko (Ha-
Hameguchi-mure, Yamano- Jan. 1874
569
570
1139
574
572
1146
8
12
20
7
10
17
mada Elenentery School)* to-gun, kita Pref:
43
Hanada Sho Gakko (Hana-
Hameda-mura, Kewabe-gun, Oct. 1874
330
341
671
324
338
662
7
9
16
7
9
16
da Elementary School)
kita Pref.
44
Hanadate Sho Gakko (Ha-
Henadate-nura, Semboku- Dec. 1874
511
502
1013
518
497
1015
5
13
18
6
13
19
mcdate Elenentary Schl.)
gun, Akite Pref.
45
Hanaoka Sho Gekko (Ha-
Hanaoke-aza, Kita-kita- Oct. 1874
919
804
1723
886
804
1690
17
21
38
19
21
40
naoka Elenentary Schil.)
gun, kita Pref.
82
46
Hanava Sho Gakko (Hena-
Hanewa-machi, Kazuno- pril 1874
975
888
1363
993
886
1879
18
26
44
16
26
42
wa Elenentary School)*
sun, kita Pref.
47
Hanawakava Sho Gakko (He- Henewekawa-mura, Yeneno- June 1877
384
410
794
391
403
794
.8
9
17
15
nawakawa Elementary Schl) to-gun, kita Pref.
48
Hasegawa Sho Gakko (Hase- Miyakama-mura, Kazuno- pril 1874
224
213
437
284
244
5287
4
11
9514
gawa Elenentary School)* gun, kita Pref.
d0 
49
Hatano Sho Gakko (Hatano
Hatano-mure, Ogachi-
.1889
250
280
530
251
273
5
11
651
Elenentary School)
gun, kita Pref.
50
Hataya Sho Gakko (Hata-
Hataya-mura, Senboku-
Nov. 1874
345
329
674
343
309
6527
9.16
81018
ye Elenontary School)
gun, kita pref.
51
Hatsunori Sho Gakko (Ha-
Hatsunori-mure, Yame-
Sept. 1875
260
253
513
261
252 513 7
2
tsunori Elemntary Schl.) noto-gun, kita Pref.
52
Heyaguchi Sho Gakko (Ha- Hayaguchi-mura, Kita-
Oct. 1875
336
337
673
329
328 657 5
1116611
17
yaguchi Elonentary Schl.) kita-gun, ita Pref.
53
Hibiki Daiichi Sho Gakko Hibiki-mura, Yananoto- April 1877
247
262
509
250
266 5168
(Hibiki First Elenentary gun, kita Pref.
School)
#
The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the sane adninistration.
-55

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.99)
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLIME
TEACHERS
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Lpr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
54 Hibiki Daini Sho Gakko
Hibiki-nura, Yanano-
April 1878
147 137
284
145
135
280
5
5
10
5
4
9
(Hibiki Second Elenentary to-gun, Akita Pref.
School) *
55
Hibiki Deisan Sho Gakko Hibiki-nure, Yananoto- ug. 1879
162 . 140 302 167 142 309
3
7
4
3
7
(Hibiki Third Elenentary gun, kita Pref.
School)
56
Higashi Ncruse Sho Gakko Higashi-Naruse-mura, March 1875
311 .410. 721
316
3116276
5
11
6
9
15
(Higashi Naruse Elenen- Ogachi-gun, kite Pref.
tary School)
57 Higashitate Sho Gakko Higeshi-Tate-mura, Kita- Oct. 1874
310 256 566
303
250 553
7
8
15
6
13
(Higashitate Elenentary Akita-gun, kita Pref.
School) 
58 Hinokinai Sho Gakko (Hi- Hinokinei-mura, Senboku- April 1875
259
250
509259 250
509
3
8
16
8
8
16
nokinai Elementary Schl.) gun, kita Prof.
59
Hiramoto Sho Gakko (Hi- Shibehira-rura, Kazuno- 4pril 1875
274
234
508 279 236 515
6
7
13
6
6
12
ranoto Elenentary Schl.) gun, kita Pref.
60
Hirasawa Sho Gakko (Hi- Hirasave-machi, Yuri-
Sept. 1874
518
545
1063
543 .538
1081
9
11
20
10
11
21
rasaiza Elenentary Schl.) gun, kita Pref.
61 Hitano Sho Gakko (Hita- Hitane- ura, Yuri-gun, Oct, 1874
355
349
704
351
347
698
13
4
17
13
4
17
no Elementary School) kite Pref.
62
Hitoichi Sho Gakko (Hi- Hitoichi-nachi, Minani- July 1875
362 361
723
359
358
717
8
10
18
7
10
17
taichi Elenéntary Schl.) kita-gun, kita ref.
63
Honai Sho Gakko (Honai
Shinogo-mura, Yuri-
Oct. 1874
.5264
116
55
64
119
3
1
4
3
1
4
Elenentary School)
gun, kita Pref.
64
Ie jina Sho Gakko (Ie ji-
Ie jina-mura, Minani-
Nov. 1889
367 336 703
367 336
703
6
11
17
6
11
17
na Elenentary School)
kita-gun, kita Pref.
65
Iezine Sho Galko (Io-
Iezune-nure, Senboku-
May 1916
426 370
796
428 372 800
7
11
18
18
zume Elomentary School)
gun, Lkita Pref.
The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the same adrinistration.
The figures for this institution include those for three branch schools under the same administration.
-56-

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.99)
NALE
ADDRESS
DITE FOUNDED
ENROLLLENT
TEACHERS
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
66 Inaniva Sho Gakko (Ina-
Inaniwa-machi, Ogachi-
April 1875
329
350
679
328
349
677
10
8
18
11
8
19
niva Elemen tary School)
gun, Akita Pref.
67
Inasawa Sho Gakko (Ina-
Arakawa-mura, Semboku- Sept. 1879
82
66
148
83
66
149
2
2
4
3
2
5
sawa Elementary School) gn, Akita Pref.
68
Isetagawa Sho Gakko (Ise- Showa-machi, Minami-A-
Dec. 1876
576
563
1139
575
555
1130
14
13
27
14
13
27
tagawa Elementary Schl.) kita-gun, Akita Pref.
69
Ishizawa Sho Gakko (I- Ishizawa-mura, Yuri-
March 1874
378
377
755
366
369
735
11
9
20
10
8
18
shizawa Elementary Schl)*gun, Akita Pref.
70
Iwadate Sho Gakko (Iwa- Ivadate-mura, Yamamoto- June 1874.
173
175
348
184
173
357
6
3
9
7
2
9
date Elementary School) gun, Akita Pref.
71
Iwaikawa Sho Gakko (Iwa- Higashinaruse-mure,  April 1883
136
129
265
133 . 125
258
5
3
8
6
3
9
ikawa Elementary School) gachi-gun, Akita Pref.
72
Iwami Sho Gakko (Ivami
Iwamisannai-mura, Kava- Feb. 1875
123
106
229
125
101
226
4
2
6
4
2
6
Elementary School)
be-gun, kita pref.
73
Iwane Sho Gakko (Iwane
Sawame-mura, Yamamoto- Oct. 1877
80
76
156
79
72
151
3
2
5
3
2
5
Elementery School)
gun, Akita Pref.
74
Iwanome Sho Gakko (Iwa-
Hayaguchi-mura, Kita-A- Oct. 1875
200
143
343
180
142
322
7
4
11
6
4
10
nome Elementary Schl.)*
kita-gun, Akita Pref.
75
Iwasaki Sho Gakko (Iwa-
Iwasaki-machi, Ogachi- June 1874
298
299
597
298
286
584
7
8
15
8
16
saki Elementary School)
gun, Akita Pref.
76
Iwase Sho Gakko (Iwase
Ivase-mura, Kita-kita- March 1893
120
135
255
120
139
259
4
5
9
5
4
9
Elementary School)
gun, Lkite Pref.
77
Iwaya Sho Gakko (Iwaya
Iwaya-mura, Yuri-gun, April 1910
395
378
773
361
340
701
9
10
19
9
11
20
Elementary School)*
kita pref.
78
Jinego Sho Gakko (Jinego Jinego-mura, Yuri-gun, Jan. 1874
338
357
695
334
353
687
15
7
22.
15
6
21
Elementary School)
Akita Pref.
79
Jinguji Sho Gakko (Jin- Jinguji-machi, Sembo June 1874
585 565 1150 573 564 1137
12
13
25
13
12
25
guji Klementary Schl.)*** ku-gun, kita Pref.
The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the same administration.
 The figures for this institution include those for three branch schools under the same administration.
* The figures for this institution include those for two branch schools under the seme administration.
-57-

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.70)
9020000
9
7 859a9va7 92

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.98)
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TRACHERS
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
I
F
T
M
F
T
94 Kamiiwakawa Sho Gakko.
Kami-Iwakawa-mura,
Dec. 1877
274
252
526
276 248
524
7
6
13
6
7
13
(Kamiivakawe Elenentary
Yamamoto-gun,
School)
Akita Pref.
95
Kamikawaouchi Sho Gakko
Kamikawaouchi-mura,
Dec. 1874
325
312
637
331
312
643
10
6
16
9.
7
16
(Kamikawaouchi Elemen-
Yuri-gun, Akita Pref.
tary School)
96
Kamikawazoi Sho Galdko
Kanikewazoi-mura, Kita- Nov. 1879
65
60
125
62
59
121
2
1
3
2
2
4
(Kamikawazoi Elemen-
kita-gun, kita Pref.
tary School)
97
Kamikitato Sho Gakko
Kamikitate-mura, Ka-
pril 1875
252
234
486
260
228
488
5
6
11
5
11
(Kamikitate Elementary
wabe-gun, kita pref.
School)
98
Kamioao Sho Gakko (Kani- Kaniono-mura, Kita-ki- April 1875
346
363
709
349
362
711
8
8
16
7
10
17
ono Elementary School) ta-gun, kita Pref.
99
Kanishin jo Sho Gakko (Ka-Kamishin jo-mura, Mina- Sept. 1874
234
231
465
234
230
464
6
5
11
5
5
10
máshin fo Rienntary Schl.) mi-kita -gun, Akita Pref.
100
Kanoaosa Sho Gakko (Ka- Toga-mur, Minami-
June 1890
59
58
117
59
58
117
4
1
5
5
moacsa Elementary Schl.)
kite gun, kita pref.
ALS
101
Kamaashihigashi Sho
Kanaashi-mura, Minami-
March 1875
199
191
390
195
190
385
4
5
9
10
Gakko (Kamaashihigashi
Akita-gun, Akite Pref.
Elementary School)
102 Kanaashinishi Sho Gakko
Kanaashi-mura, Minami- March 1875
417 421
415
840
11
7
18
10
7
17
(Kanaashinishi Elenen-
Akita-gun, Akita Pref.
tary School)
103 Kanaoka Sho Galdko (Kana- Kanaoka-mura, Yanemo-
June 1074
404 379
783
388 .377 765
6
10
16
16
ka Elementary Sohool) to-gun, kita Pref.
104 Kanezawa Sho Gakko (Ka- Kanozawa-nechi, Senbo July 1874
475
519
994
471
518
989
9
9
18
10
19
nezawa Elomentary Schl.) ku-gun, kita Pref.
105 Kankai Sho Gakko (Kan-
Hatsunori-mura, Yama-
Oct. 1878
415
403
818
416
417
833
8
10
18
kai Elenentary School)
noto-gun, Akita Pref.
59

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.98)
NAME
ADDRESS
.FE FOUNDED
ENPOTI
TEACHERS
30 40=. 46
Nov.46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
L06 Kariwano Sho Gakko (Ke- Kariwano-machi, Senboku- ug. 1874
486. 422 908
472 414 886
109
19
9
9
18
rivano Elenentary Schl.) gun, Aita Fro.
107
Karuizava Sho Gakko (Ka- Tashiro-mura, Ogachi-
Feb. 1907143139 282
142.159 301
4
8
4
4
8
ruizawa Elementary Schl) gun, kita Pref.
08
Kashige Sho Gakko (Ka- Kashige-mura, Yanamoto- Mey 1875
125
119
244
120
119
239
4
3
7
4
3
7
shige Elenentary Schl.) gun, kita Pref.
09
Katayama Sho Gakko (Kata- Shino-Kawizoi-nura, Kita- Dec. 1879
60
48
108
60
51
111
2
1
3
2
1
3
yane Elenentary School) kite-gun, kita Pref.
10
Kawaguchi Sho Gakko (Ka- Shimckavazoi-mura, Kita- Oct. 1874: 283
253
536
283
254
537
6
6
12
6
7
13
waguchi Elenentary Schl.)kite-gun, Akita pref.
11
Kawakani Sho Gakko (Ke- Kosake-nachi; Kazuno- Dec. 1879 168
158
326
152
152
304
5
9
4
5
9
wakani Elanentary Schl.) gun, kita Pref.
12
Kawaniahi Sho Gakko ( Kawanishi-ara. Hiraka-. May 1906 . 399
381
780
392
368
760
10
7
17
10
9
19
wanishi Elenentary Schl) gun, kita Pref.
13
Kawatsura Sho Gakko (Ka- Kawatsura-nachi, Ogachi- May 1876.
491
477
968
481
482 96310
8
18
11
6
17
watsura Elementary Schl.)gun, Akita Pref.
14 Kawauchi Sho Gakko (Ka- Kawauchi-mura. Yuri-gun, July 1874
410
388
798
401 387 788
9
16
9
7
16
wauchi Elenentary Schl.) kita Frof.
15: :Kawazoi Sho Gakko (Ka- Kawazoi-mure, Kawabe-
July 1901
477
425
902
477 464 941
8
11
19
9
11
20
wazoi Elementary Schl.) gun, kita Pref.
16
Keijo Sho Gakko (Kei jo 0date-nachi, Kita-kita- pril 1374 760 706 1466
768 728 1496
18
17
35
18
17
35
Elenentary School)
gun, kita Pref.
Kenanai Sho Galdko (Kena- Kenanai-machi, Kazuno-
July 1874 590 520
1110
592 520. 1112 11
18
29
10
16
26
nai Elenentary School) gun, kita Pref.
Kisakata Sho Gakko (Ki- Kisakata-nachi, Yuri-
March 1874 633 582 1215
635 594 1229
14
10
24
13
11
24
sakata Elementary Schl.) gun, Akita Pref.
Kitaiso Sho Gakko (Kita- Kitaura-mura, Minand-
Nov. 1918 155 164 319 157 164 321
6
4
10
10
iso Elementary School)
Akita-gun, kita Pref.
Kitanaracka Sho Galdko
Kitanaracka-mura, Sembo- pril 1875 219 206 425
204 207 411
7
4
11
(Kitanaracke Elenen-
ku-gun, kita Pref.
tary School)
-60-

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.98)
NAME
ADDRESS
DITE FOUN ED
ENROLLENT
TEACHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
F
T
M
F
121 Kitautetsu Sho Gakko
Kitautetsu-mura, Yuri-
Feb. 1874
245
255
500
268
261
529
7
7.
14
8
1h
(Kitautetsu Elenentary
gun, kite Pref.
School)*
122
Kodane Sho Gakko (Koda-
Yodokawa-mura, Senboku- pril 1914
122
129
251
121
129
250
3
7
4
ne Elenentary School)
gun, ikita Pref.
123
Kohoku Sho Gakko (Kohoku Ukawa-mura, Yananoto-gun, April 1877 468
426
894
466
428
894
7
10
17
8
10
18
Elenentary School)
Akite Pref.
124 Koide Sho Gakko (Koide
Koide-mura, Yuri-gun,
May 1874
279
298
577
287
299
586
10
5
15
10
6
16
Elementary School)
kita Pref.
125 Kekoroyari Sho Gekko (I0- Tsuchikawe-rura, Senbo- March 1883
111
102
213
114
106
220
4
1
5
4
5€1
koroyari Elenentery Schl.)ku-gun, kita Pref.
19
126 Komagata Sho Gakko (Ko- Komagata-nura, Ogachi-
July 1875
430
417
847
430 414
844
7
10
17
910
magata Eleentary Schl.) gun, Akita Pref.
127 Konatsu Sho Gakko (Ko- Jindai-nura, Sanboku-
June 1879
272
260
532
273
262
535
6
6
12
12
natsu Elementery Schl.) gun, kita Pref.
128 Konoura Sho Galdko (Kono- Konoure mmahi, Yuri-gun, Sept. 1874
523
471
994
516
466982
10
11
21
10
21
ura Elenentary School)
kita Pref.
129 Kosaka Sho Gakko (Kosa-
Kosaka-nachi,Kazuno
July 1874
885
704
1589
885
770 1655
10
26
36
112637
ka Elementary School)*
gun, ikita Pref.
130
Kosawada Sho Gákko (Ko
Kanikoani-mura, Kita-
July 1874
192
193
385
192
191
383
6
4
10
11
sawada Elenentary Schl Akita-gun, kita Pref.
131
Koshiyana Sho Galdko (Ko- Yenase-mura, Kita-Akita- Jen. 1893
140
125
265
6
2
8
shiyana Elementary Schl.)gun, kita Pref.
x.
132 Kosugiyama Sho Gakko (Ko- Tsuchikawa-mura, Sen-
July 1881
108
83
191
110
84. 194
2
sugiyana Elenentary Schl) boku-gun, kita Pref.
133 Kowakubi Sho Gakko (Ko- Koakubi-mura, Senmboku- pril 1876 218
195
413.216. 194 410
6.
wakubi Elenentary Schl.) gun, kite Pref.
134 Koyoshi Sho Gakko (Ko- Koyoshi-mura, Yuri-gun, Nov. 1874 330 298 628
325 298 6238
715
yoshi Elenentary Schl.)• kita Pref.
The figures for this institution include thoso for one branch school under the same administration.

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.97)
NLE
ADDRESS
D FOULED
ENRLLN
TEACHERS
30.pr. 46
30 Nov。 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
F
T
IF
T
135 Kunohikeri Sho Gakko (D- Kunosawe-rura, Senboku- June 1874
199
181
380
189
173
362
5
6
11
5
6
11
mohikari Elonentary Schl.)gun, kita Frof,
136. Kurokawa Sho Gekko (Ku-. Kurokava-rura, Hiraka- Mey 1874
247
281
528
242
278. 520
7.
5
12
6
5
11:
rokewa Elomntary Schl.)
gun, kite Pref.
137
Kurosava Sho Gakko (Ku-
Nanakura-mure, Kita-
Not Given
16
19
35
21
19
40
1
2
3
1
1
2
rosave Elenentary Schl.)
kita-gun, kita pref.
138
Kusaki Sho Galdco: (Kusa-
Dyu-achi, Kazuno-gun, Oct. 1875
163
149
312
162
143
305
6
3
9
6
3
9.
ki Elementary School)
kita Pref.
139
Kuzokuro Sho Gakko (Kuzo- Nanukaichi-mura, Kite- 4pril 1907
64
83
147
64
83
147
2
2
4
2
2
4
kuro Elenentary School)
kita gun: kita Prof.
140
Mneda Sho Gekko (Maeda
Macda-mura, Kite-Akite- March 1875
493
483
976
505
484
989
10.
9
19
13
8
21
Eleriontery School) *
gun, Akita Prof.
141
Mmego Sho. Gakko (inego
Higashikitasawa-rura,
March 1874
375
391
766
372
375
747
10
7
17
11
7
18:
Elonontary School)
Yuri-gun, Akita Pref.
142 Mainake Sho Gakko (Manaka
Manekc-mra, Kita-
Nov. 1874
256
224
480
257
225
482
4
6
10
10
ETenentary School)
Akite-gun, Akita pref.
143 msugava Sho Gakko (masu- Funaganinato-nachi, i- July 1879
169
188
357
169
191
360
6
3
28
gava Elementary School)
nani-kita-gun, kita Prof.
144 Masudo Sho Gekko (Masu-
Masuda-nachi, Hiraka- pril 1874
69ó
697
1393
686
690
1376
13
13
26
16
28
da Elenentary School)
gun, kita Pref.
145 Matsugasaki Sho Gakko ( Matsugasaki-mura, Yuri- March 1874 341 328
669
344 328
672
8
11
19.
8.
11
19
tsugasaki Elenentary Schl.) gun, kita Pref.
146 atsukura Sho Gakko (M- Yotsuya-mura, Senbku- pril 1892
108
90
198
87
194. 3
1
4
32.5
tsukure Elenontary Schl.) gun, kita Pref.
147 Mei jikite Sho Gekko (Me- Mei ji-mura, Ogachi-
April 1892
225
181
406
.219
180
399
7
2
9年2
i jikita Elenentary Schl.) gun, kita Pref.
148: Mei Jiminami Sho Galko
Hei ji-mura, Ogachi-
my 1884
257 252
509
257 253 510
5
4
9
(Mei jiminani Elenontary
gun, kita pref.
School)
The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the sane adninistration. - 62

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.98)
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TEACHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
.2
F
T
M
F
T
149.. mitsu Sho Gakko. (Mei-
Nishimonai-nachi, Oga-
pril 1908
98
89
187
98
89
187
4
3
7
4
3
7
tsu Elenentary School)
chi-gun, kita Pref.
150
Michikawa Sho Gakko (Mi- Michikawa-nura, Yuri-
Nov. 1874
434
390
824
425
392
817
9
11
20
9
11
20
chikawe Elenentary Schl. gun, kita Pref.
it
151
Mie Sho Gakko (Mie
Mie-mura,Hiraka-gun,
4pril 1877 413
373
786
400
372
772
8
9
17
8
9
17
Elementary School)
kita Pref.
152 naninaraoka Sho Gekn
Minanineraoka-nura, Son- Lug. 1875
281
290
571
276
283
559
7
6
13
7
6
13
(Linenineraoke Elenen-
boku-gun, kita Pref.
tary School)
153
Minemiutetsu Sho Gakko
Linamiutetsu-ura, Yuri- April 1874
239
260
499
238
257
495
7
5
12
7
5
12
(Minaniutetsu Elemen-
gun, kita Pref.
tary School)
154
Mineyoshikara Sho Gakko
Mineyoshikeva-nure,
May 1878
230
190
420
230
187
5
9
4
4
8
(Mineyoshikawa Elemen-
Senboku-gun,
tery School)
kite Pref.
155
Mitake Sho Gakko (Mita-
Higashi-Tate-iura. Kita- Nov. 1874
151.
127
278
153
128
281
3
4
9
3
4
7
ke Elenentery School)
Akita-gun, Skite Pref.
156
Mitsunasu Sho Gakko (Mi- Mitsunasu-mure, Ogachi- June 1875
208
192
400
194
185
379
5
5
10
5
4
9
tsunasu Elenentary Schl.)gun, kita Pref.
157
Mitsuseki Sho Galdko (Mi- Mitsuseki-mure, Ogachi- April 1874
345
353
698
337
357
694
6
10
16
6
10
16
tsuseki Elenentary Schl) gun, kita Pref.
158
Miwe Sho Gakko (Miva
Miva-mura, Ogachi-gun,
June 1902
576
545
1121
572
540
1112
9
24
23
11
13
24
Elementary School)
Akita Pref.
159
M yafunoto Shc Gelko* (- Miyakawa-mura, Kazuno-
Aug. 1874
265
269
534
261
274
535
6
15
9
6
15
yafumto Elenentary Schl.)gun, Akitapref.
160
M yata Sho Gakko (Miya- Mitsunasu-mura, Ogachi- Sept. 1877
121
117
238
123
118
241
5
2
7
5
3
8
ta Elenentary School)
gun, Lkita Pref.
161
Mizusawa Sho Gakko (Mi- Savane-mura, Yananoto-
pril 1874
330
317
647
334
329
663
7
9
16
7
10
17
zusawa Elenentary Schl.) gun, kita Pref.
The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the sane aduinistration.
-63-

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.96)
NALE
DDRESS
DE FOUNDED
30 Lpr. 46
ERO
46
30 4pr. 46
TELCHERS
30 Nov. 46
1I
E.
T
II
T
F
T
M
F
T
162 Monai Sho Gakko (Monai
Motonishishimonai-mura, pril 1902
227 265
492
227 265
492
4
6
10
4
6
10
Elemontery School)
Ogachi-gum. ite Pref.
12
25
16
1329
Nishinonai-mura, 0gachi- April 1874 571 519 1090 566 514 . 1030 13
163
Monai Sho Geidko (Jónai
Elamentery School) •
gun, kita Pref.
378
360 738
374
352 726 9
9
18
9
9.
19
164 Moritake Sho Gakko (Mo- Moritake-ura, Yannoto- g. 1874
ritake Elementary Schl.) gun, Akita Pref.
205
176
331
170 174
344
5
5
11
7
11
165
Moriyoshi Sho Gakico (Mo- Maeda-ura, Kita-kita- Sept. 1378
riyoshi Elonentery Sdhl)* sun, kite Iref.
166
Motodate Sho Galdko (o- Rokugo-nachi, Seniboku-
April 1892
57
50
107
58. 52.
110
2
1
3
2
2
4
todate Elenentery Schl.) gun, kiterref.
pril 1902
227 265
492
227 265. 492
4
6
10
4
6
10
167 Motonishinonai Sho Galdko Motonishinonai-ura.
(Motonishinonai Elenen- Ogeci-gun, ita ref.
tary.School)
April 1908
333
305 324 629
8
9
17
11
7
18
168 Motoyana Sho Gakko (Moto- Kosaka-nachi,Kazuno-
yana Elenentery Schocl)
gun, kita Pref.
169 Muzuai Sho Gakko (Luzu-
Muzuei mure, Hiraka-
Tarch 1875
470.521
991
431 503 934
14. 7
21
14
7
21
ai Elementcry School)*
gun, kita Prof.
83
59
142
00
56
136
3
1
4
3
1
4
170. Nagehashiri Sho Galdso (Na- Yadate-mura, Kita-ki- Feb. 1902
gahashiri ElenentaryScil.) ta-gun, kite Pref.
171 Nagaki Sho Gakko (Naga-
Nagaki-mura, Kita-ki- Jan. 1877
379
319
698
365 290 655
7
10
17
7
10
17
ki Elenentery School)•
te-gun, kita Pref.
172
Nagano Sho Gakko (Nagano
Nagano-nachi, Semboku- Jume 1874
403
367
770
397
352
749
8
12
20
9
10
19
Elenentery School)
gun, kita Pref.
395
794
399
407
806
10
7
17
11
18
173
Negashida Sho Gekko (Ne- Nagashide-ura, Semboku- Sept. 1874 399
gashida Elenentary Schl.) gun, kita Pref.
193
192 385
193
192
385
8
4
12
12
174
Nakegame Sho Galdko (Naka- Nekagawm-mura, Senboku- July 1385
gama Elenentary Schi.)* gun, kite pref.
227
245
472
225
245.470
3
6
9
10
175
Nakano Sho Gacko (Nakano Shinoshin jo-mura, Mina- Lug. 1882
Elenentary School)
ni-Adita-gun, kita Prof.
The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the sane adinistration.
-64.-
Figures for this institution include thoso for four branch schools under the same administration.

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.98)
NTE
DIRESS
DITE FOUNLED
ENROLLIENT
TEACHERS
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 .46
30 N07. 46
F
T
II
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
176
Nakatsunata Sho Gakko
Futsunci-mure, Linani-
Mey 1876
154
155
309
154
155
309
4
4.
4
4
8
(Nakatsunnta Elenon-
Akita-gun, kite Pref.
tary School)
177
Nakayane Sho Geliko (Na-
Uchiotono-mura, Senbo
pril 1906
35
44
79
36
42
73
2
1
3
2.
3
kayann Elementary Schl.) ku-un, kita Pref.
178
Nakayodokava Sho Gekke
Yodokava-mure, Somboku- pril 1914
128
97
225
130
97
227
3
1
4
4
1
5
(Nekayodokawa Elemon-
gun, kita Pref.
tary School)
179
Nanakura Sno Gakko (Na- Nanclura-mmra, Kita-ti- Doc. 1889
146
123
269
199
107
306
3
5
8
5
5
10
nakura Elenentary Schl.) ta-gun, kita Pref.
180
Nanataki Sho Galko (Na- Nanataki-mure, Kazuno-
April 1389
303
228
531
299
228
527
8
7
15
8
7
15
netaki Elenentary Schl.)* cun, kite Pref.
181
Nanukaichi Sho Gakko (- Nanukaichi-mura, Kita- u. 1074
201
184
305
195
194
389
4
4
4
4
8
nukaichi Elementary Schl) kita-gun, kita Pref.
182
Natsui Sho Gakko (Natsui
Akebono-mure, Kazuno
June 1901
82
76
158
30
75
155
3
1
4
3
1
Elementary School)
gun, kita Prof.
183
Niagoba Sho Galdko (Nia-
Nicgu-be-mra, Yuamo-
Dec. 1877
193
220
413
187
221
403
5
4
9
5
4
9
geba Elementary School)
to-gun, kite Pref.
184
Niida Sho Galdko (Niida
Niida-mura, Kawabe-
Nov. 1832
395
367
762
305
369
754
3
10
18
8
10
18
Elenentary School)
gun, Akita Prof.
135
Niida Sho Gakko (Niida
Niida-mure, Kite-lita- Fob. 1874
280
253
533
270
251
521
6
5
11
5
6
11
Elemen tery School)
gun, kita irof.
186
Niineri Sho Gakko (Nii-
Niineri-mure, Ogachi-
Jan. 1878
333
329
662
327
318
645
11
6
17
12
18
nari Elenentary School)
gun, kita Pref.
187
Nishikigi Sho Gckso (Ni-
Nishikigi-nura, Kezuno- July 1892
261
233
494
256
240
496
4
5
9
459
shikigi Elenentcry Schl.) gun, kita Pref.
188
Nishime Sho Gakko (Nishi- Nishine-rure, Yuri-
April 1874
428
4.51
879
426
451
877
ô
12
20119
20
me Elenefrary Sch ool)
gun, cita Prof.
189
Nishinagano Sho Galko(Ni- Kunosava-rure, Senboku- 4pril 1892
121
136
257
120
135
2554
3
shinegamoElenentary Schl.) gun, kita Pref.
The figures for this institution include those for three branch schools under the same adninistration. 

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.97)
NAE
4DDRESS
DIER FOUNDED
ENRCTL
TEACHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
II
F.
T
1
F
T
II
F
T
II
F
T
190 Nishinaruse Sho Gakko(Ni-Nishinaruso-mura, Oga- pril 1892
297
292
589
204
282
566
11
6
17
11
5
16
shincruso Elcmontary Schl.) chi-gun, kita Pref.
191 Nishino Sho Géldro (Ni-
Kanczawa Nishine Ini- Aug. 1875
497
445
942
498
445
943
10
7
17
10
7
17
shinc Elomentery Schl.)
zuni, Senboku-gun,
Mkito Pref.
192 Nishisain Sho Geliko (Ni- yulmwe-mura, Yuri-
pril 1877
31
31
62
31
31
62
2
1
3.
1
3
shisama Elenontery Schl.) gun, Lkita Pref.
193
Nishitakisara Sho Gakko
Nishitakisawa-rura, Yu- April 1908
306
326
632
300
327
627
10
7
17
11
7
18
(Nishitakisamm Elemon-
ri-gun, kite Pref.
tary Sch ool)
194
Nishitate Sho Gakko (Ni- Nishi-Tete-nurc, Kita- Nov. 1874
312
273
585
302
270
572
10
6
16
10
6
16
shitate Elenentery Schl.) kita-gun, kita ref.
195
Noishi Sho Gakko (Noishi
Katanishi-mure, Minai- Mmrch 1875
341
371
712
345
370
715
9
7
16
9
7
16
Elenontary School)
kite-gun, Akita Pref.
196
Nozoki Sho Gakdko (Nozo-
Mincminarcoka-rmra, Son-April 1905
141
125
266
143
128
271
5
6
11
5
6
11
ki Elenentary School)*
boku-gun, kita Prof.
197
Nunadate Sho Gekko (Nu-
Nunndate-nachi, Hiraka- April 1674
662
635
1297
664
606
1270
14
15
29
12. 14
26
madate Elementary Schl.)*
gun, Akite Pref.
198
ani Sho Gakko (Oani
Oani-mura, Kita-Akita- pril 1922
419
420
839
426
435
861
15
8
23
13
6
19
Elementary School)
gun, kita Prof.
199
Obonai Sho Gakko (Obonai
Obonai-nura, Scmboku-
Oct. 1374
520
483
1003
551
491
1042
11
16
27
11
16
27
Elenentary School)*
gun, kita Prof.
200
Ochiai Sho Gakko (Ochi-
Ochiai-mura, Kita-ki- Nov. 1874
278
281
559
275
280
555
6
7
13
5
6
11
ai Elenontary School)
ta-gun, Akita Pref.
201
Oganaka Sho Gakdso (Oga-
Oganaka-mura, Minani-
Nov. 1374
316
295
611
320
294
614
9
6
15
11
17
naka Elenentary School)
kita-gun, kita Pref.
202
Ogama Sho Gakiko (Ogawa
Kawauchi-mure, Yuri-
Oct. 1875
93
95
188
77
88
165
4
2
6
Elenentary School)
gun, kita Prof.
The figures for this institution include those for one branch school undor the sane adninistration.
The figures for this institution include those for three branch schools wider the sano adrinistrètion.
-66-
-69-

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.98)
NDE
4DDRESS
D FOUNDED
ENRCLLMENT
TELCHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
E
T
M
F
T
F
T
203
Ogida Sho Galko (Ogida
Ogida-nachi, Kita-di ta- Nov. 1874
614
552
1166
600
553
1153
13
12
25
13
12
25
Elenentary School)
gun, kita Pref.
204
Oguriyana Sho Galiko (0
Nishinarusc-mura, 0ga- May 1923
170
153
323
164
145
309
5
5
10
5
5
10
guriyene Elonontary Schl.)
chi-gun, kita Pref.
205
Oiketa Sho Galdko (0i-
- Shinogo-ture, Yuri-gun, March 1874
185
166
351
133
157 340
4
3
7
7
2
9
kata Elenontary Schl.)
kita Pref.
206
Okawa Sho Galdko (Oka-
Okewa-nura Minani-ki-
Doc. 1376
261
238499
261
234
495
5
5
10
5
5
10
wa Elcnentary School)
ta-gun, kita Pref.
207
Okawanishine Sho Gakko
Okawenishine-mure, Sonbo- Doc. 1899
216
216
432
218
216
434
5
4
9
5
4
9
(Okawenishine Elenenta-
ku-gun, kita Pref.
ry School)
208
Okazaki Sho Gekko (Cka-
Jindci-mure, Senboku-
May 1875
104
99
203
105
100
205
4
3
7
3
4
7
zaki Elenentary School)
sun, kita Pref.
209
Okitaooto Sho Galico(0-
Kanikoeni-nura, Kita-
pril 1378
292
292
584
292
306
598
9
5
14
9
5
14
kiteonoto Elenentary
ita-gun, kita pref.
School) **
210
Okubo Sho Gakso (Okubo
Shora-machi, minani-
Junc 1374
634
665
1299
646
653
1299
12
16
28
12
16
28
Elenentary School)
kita-gun, kita Pref.
211
Okuniya Sho Gakko (Oisu-
Minase-mura, Ogachi-
June 1902
263
248
516
265246
511
9
4
13
9
4
13
niya Elonontary Schl.)**
gun, kita pref.
212
Okuzo Sho Gakko (Okuzo
Okuzo-mura, Kite-kita-
Sept. 1674
273
235
508
232
186
418
5
8
13
5
7
12
Elementary School)
gun, kita Prof.
213
Onagari Sho Gakko (Ona-
Onagari-machi, Senboku- April 1874
1160
1157 2317
1168
1062
2230
30
25
55
30
25
55
gari Elcnentary Schl.)*** gun, Akita Pref.
214
Onokata Sho Gakko (Onc-
anokata-nura, Minani-
May 1874
487
411
898
486
403
889
10
9
19
12
19
kata Elenentary School)
kita-gun, kita Pref.
215
Omori Sho Gakko (Omori
Omori-ma chi, Hiraka-
July 1874
333
345
678
330
345 675
7
10
17
Elenentary School)
cun, kita Pref.
Tho figures for this institution include thoso for one branch school under the sane adninistration.
The figures for this institution include those for threc branch schools under the saic aduinistration.
The figures for this institution include those for two branch schools under the sane administration.

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.98)
NLE
ADDRESS
DTE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TEACHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
M
F
T
H
F
T
F
T
216
Ono Sho Gakko (Ono
Ono-mure, Ogechi-gun,
Sept. 1890
335
313
648
331
306
637
8
9
17
8
9
17
Elonentary School)
kita prof.
217
Osarusava Sho Gekko (0
Osarusave-nachi, Kazu-
Doc.1874
393
397
1790
883
877
1765
18
22
40
20
20
40
sarusawa Elenentary Schl.)
no-gun, kita Pref.
218
Osawago Sho Galko (Osa-
Osavago-rura, Senboku-
.1875
463
431
894
461
413
374
10
11
21
11
12
23
wago Elenen tery Schl.)*
cun, kita pref.
219
Oteke Sho Gakko (Otake
Konoura-nachi, Yuri-
July 1874
86
39
175
39
88
177
4
3
7
4
3
7
Elenentery School)
gun, kita Pref.
220
Otono Sho Gakko (Otano
Otono-nura, Yuri-gun,
Merch 1874
246
232
478
248
227
475
9
3
12
9
3
12
Elenentery Schocl)**
kite Pref.
221
Oyu Sho Gakko (Oyu
Oyu-nachi, Kazuno-gun,
Larch 1875
605
508
1113
574
532
1106
11
13
29
13
15
26
Elenentary School) **
kita Pref.
222
Roikugo Sho Gekiso (Roku-
Rokugo-nnchi, Senboku-
May 1374
654
645
1299
655
628
1283
10
16
28
10
18
28
go Elenontcry School)
gun, kita Pref.
223
Rokugohigashine Sho
Rokugo-nachi, Senboku-
pril 1879
230
199
429
227
193
420
5
3
3
5
4
9
Gakko (Rokugohigeshinc
gun, kita Pref.
Elementary School)
224
Rokuzan Sho Gakko (Roku- Kitaura-nechi, Minani-
July 1874
578
538
1116
564
532
1096
6
11
19
10
11
21
zan Elenontery School)
kita-gun, kita Pref.
225
Ryushin Sho Cakko (Ryu-
Nanukaichi-mure, Kita-
pril 1892
111
99
210
111
99
210
3
2
5
3
2
5
shin Elenentary School)
ikita-gun, kita Pref.
226
Sainyoji Sho Gakko (Sai- Sainyo ji-mura, Semboku- Nov. 1875
413
385
798
407
383
790
12
13
25
7
11
18
myoji Elenentery Schl.)** gun, kita Iref.
227
Sakae Sho Gakko (Sakae
Sakai-mura, Kita-kita- Oct. 1928
163
187
350
160
173
333
5
5
10
4
5
9
Elementary School)
gun, kita Pref.
228
Sakainachi Sho Gekko (Sa- Sakai-nachi-nure, Hira- April 1874
313
326
639
312
313
625
.7
10
17
8
10
18
kainachi Elenentary Schl.)ka-gun, kita Pref.
229
Sannai Sho Gakko (San-
Iwamisannai-nure, Kawa- Feb. 1875
524
454
978
484
460
944
8
11
19
711
18
nai Elenentary School)
be-gun, kita Pref.
The figures for this institution includo those for two branch schools under the sone adrinistration.
The figures for this institution include those for one branch schocl under the sane administration.

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.99)
NLE
DDRESS
D.TE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TEACHERS
30pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
正
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
230
Sannai Sho Gekko (San-
Sannai-mura, Hiraka-
April 1874
1426 1476
2902
1414
1462 2876
27
20
47
26
21
47
nai Llementary School) * gun, Akita Pref.
231
Satomi Sho Gakko (Sa-
Satomi-mura, Hiraka-
June 1874
407
436
843
397
426
823
10
7
17
10
8
18
tomi Elementary School)
gun, Akita Pref.
232
Sawaguchi Sho Gakko (Sa- Sawaguchi-mura, Kita- pril 1875
318
317
635
318
317
635
6
9
15
6
9
15
waguchi Elementary Schl.)** Akite-gun, Akita Pref.
233
Sawanai Sho Gakko (Sawa- Funaoka-mura, Kawabe-
Oct. 1892
64
60
124
64
62
126
3
1
4
2
2
4
nai Elenentary School)
cun, Akita Pref.
234
Seisho Sho Gakko (Sei-
Junisho-machi, Kita-
May 1874
522
522
1044
517
529
1046 9
i1
20
11
11
22
sho Elementary Schl.)***
Akita-gun, Akita Pref
235
Sendo Sho Gakso (Sendo
Sendo-mura, Ogachi-
April 1387
316
256
572
315
253
573
7
7
14
7
7
14
Elementary School)**
gun, Akita Pref.
236
Senya Sho Gakko (Senya
Senya-mura, Semboku-
Jan. 1880
629
649
1278
635
650
1285
16
14
30
17
Elementary School)***
gun, Akite Pref.
237
Shakanai Sho Gakko (Sha- Shakanai-nura, Kita-
June 1874
575
604
1179
561
597
1158
10
18
28
11
18
29
kanei Elementary Schl.)*Akita-, Aite Pref.
238
Shibanai Sho Gakko (Shi- Shibanai-mura, Kazuno-
July 1874
341
323
664
337
315
652
9
9
18
9
8
17
banai Elementary School) gun, kita Pref.
239
Shimizu Sho Gakko (Shi- Shimizu-mura, Semboku- Sept. 1374
287
268
555
273
271
544
7
7
14
77
14
mizu Elenentary School)
gun, Akita Pref.
240
Shin jo Sho Gakko (Shin-
Shimoshin jo-mura, Linami- Sept. 1875
240
225
465
236
227
463
6
5
11
5
5
10
jo Elementary School)
kita-gun, kita Pref.
241
Shiraiwa Sho Gakko (Shi- Shiraiwa-mure, Semboku- July 1874
256
275
531
256
275 531
6
7
13
raiwa Elementary School) gun, kita Pref.
242
Shitakawara Sho Gakko(Shi-Hanawa-machi, Kazuno-
pril 1884
206
184
390
207 185. 392
5
4
9
takawam Elementary Schl.)gun, kita Pref.
243 Shimogo Sho Galko (Shi- Shimogo-mura, Yuri-
Oct. 1874
243
207 .450
232
197
429
7
3
10
mogo Elementary School) gun, kita Pref.
The figures for this institution include those for nine branch schools under the same administration.
The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the same administration.
The figures for this institution include those for two branch schools under the same administration.

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.99)
NAE
DDRESS
DAFE FOUNDED
ENROLIIENT
TEACHERS
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
11
F
T
M
F
T
44
Shimohama Sho Gakko (Shi- Shimohama-mura, Yuri-
Oct. 1875
395
339
734
391
336
727
10
8
18
10
8
18
mohama Elezentary Schl.) * gun, kita Pref.
45
Shimoigawa Sho Gakko(Shi- Shimoigawa-mura, Mina- my 1874
436
438
874
431 431
862
8
9
17
17
moigava Elementary Schl) mi-kita-gun, kita Pref.
246
Shimoiwakawa Sho Gakko
Shimoivakawa-mura, Yama- Nov. 1876
316
298
614
307 298
605
7
5
12
10
6
16
(Shimoiwakawa Elementary
moto-gun, kita Pref.
School)
247
Shimokawaouchi Sho Gakko Shimokawaouchi-mura,
May 1874
522
473
995
512 468 980
11
13
24
11 .13
24
(Shimokawaouchi Elementa- Yuri-gun, kita Pref.
ry School) **
248
Shimckitate Sho Gakko(Shi- Shinokitate-mura, Kawa- Hay 1875
283
305
588
284
300
584
6
8
14
6
8
14
mokitate Elementary Schl,)be-gun, kita Pref.
249
Shimokoani Sho Gakko(Shi- Shinokoani-mura, Kita-
June 1875
325
332
657
332
349
681
8
9
17
8
9
17
mokoani Elementary Schl)**kita-gun, kita Pref.
250
Shimonobi Sho Gakiko (Shi- Kumosama-mura, Semboku-
Nov. 1878
45
50
95
46
52
98
2
2
4
2
2
4
monobi Elementary Schl.) gun, kita Pref.
251
Shimoono Sho Galko(Shimo- Shimoono-mura, Kita-
Nov. 1374
219
222
441
216
213
429
5
4
9
6
3
9
ono Elementary School)
kita-gun, kita Pref.
252
Shimosennai Sho Gekko (Shi-Futsusannai-mura, Mina- May 1871
175
154
329
175
154
329
6:
10
5
4
9
mosamai Elementary Schl.) mi-ikita-gun, kita Pref.
253
Shuku Sho Gakko (Shuku
Shimogo-mura, Yuri-
oct. 1874
145
132
277
143
131
274
3
4.
7
5
4
9
Elementary School)
gun, kita Pref.
254
Sodeyama Sho Gakko (Sode-
Tomai-mure, Yuri-gun,
March 1902
21
35
56
21
35
56
1
1
2
2.
1
3
yame Elementary School)
kita Pref.
255
Sotoasahigawa Sho Gakko
Sotoasahigawa-mura,
pril 1875
322
347
669
321 337
658
9
12
21
12
19
(Sotoasahigawa Elemontary
Minami-ikita-gun,
School)
kita Pref.
256
Sotootomo Sho Gakko (So Sotootomo-mura, Sembo-
Nov. 1876
291 263 554
292 264 556
6
8
14
6
8
tootomo Elementary Schl.) ku-gun, Akita Pref.
The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the same administration.
The figures for this institution include those for two branch schools under the same administration.
-孔0=

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.99)
NAIE
4DDRESS
DITE FOUNDED
ENROLLENT
TEACHERS
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
II
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
N
F
T
257. Suehiro Sho Galdko (Sue- Nishikigi-mura, Kazuno- pril 1875
187
140
327
183 138
321
5
4
9
5
4
9
hiro Elementary School)
gun, kita Pref.
258
Sugisara Sho Gakko (Su- Babanome-mura, Minani-
March 1902
122
131
253
120
127
247
4
3
7
4
3
7
gisawa Elementery Schl.) kita-gun, kita Pref.
259
Sukava Sho Gakko (Suka- Sukava-mura, Ogachi-
Nov. 1893
170
167
337
172
168
340
5
5
10
4
5.
9
wa Elementary School)
gun, kita Pref.
260
Sumiyoshi Sho Gckko (Su- Tonai-nura, Yuri-gun,
pril 1892
104
99
203
103
99
202
6
2
8
5
2
7
miyoshi Elemen tary Schl.)kita Pref.
261
Sutoku Sho Gakko (Suto- Hiyana-machi, Ynamoto-
June 1874
277
265
542
278
262
540
5
6
11
6
5
11
ku Elementery School)
gun, kita Pref.
262
Taihei Sho Gakko (Taihei Taihei-mura, inami-
July 1874
336
301
637
328
298
626
11
8
19
11
8
19
Elementary School)
Akita-gun, kita Pref.
263
Taisei Sho Gakko (Taisei rakea-mura, Senboku-
pril 1899
130
120
250
135
129
264
7
3
10
7.
3
10
Elementary School)
gun, Akita Pref.
264
Takanatsu Sho Galdko (Ta- Sukawa-mura, Ogachi-
June 1883
218
202
420
212
199
411
7
6
13
7
13
kamatsu Elementary Schl )*gun, kita Pref.
265
Takanasu Sho Galko (Ta- Takanasu-mura, Semboku-
oct. 1874
544
492
1036
530
487
1017
10
11
21
10
10.
20
kanasu Elementary Schl.) gun, kita Pref
266
Takanosu Sho Gakko (Ta- Takanosu-machi, Kita-
ug.1874
702
703
1405
704
718
1422
15
18
3
15
18
kanosu Elementary Schl.) kita-gun, kita Pref.
267
Taki Sho Gakko (Taki
Kanikawaouchi-mura, Yuri- pril 1873
66
69
135
65
67
132
3
1
4
3
4
Elementary School)
gun, kite Pref.
268
Tanehira Sho Gakko (Ta-
Tanehira-mura, Kawabo- March 1928
231
197
428
231
196. 427
8
5
13
8
12
nehira Elementary Schl)
gun, kita Pref.
269
Tanemori Sho Gakko (Ta-
Tanemori-mura, Hiraka- June 1874
574
577
1151
574
577 1151
10
10
20
10
19
gun, kita Pref.
270
Taneune Sho Gakko (Tane- Taneume-mura, Yamamoto- pril 1875
248
220
468
249
221.470
6
6
12
ume Elementary Schl.)** gun, kita Pref.
271
Tashiro Sho Galko (Ta- Tashiro-mura, Ogachi~
July 1874
262 240
502
263 241 504
shiro Elementary Schl.)**gun, Akita Pref.
The figures for this institution include those for two branch schools under the same administration.
The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the same administration.

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.99)
NEE
DIRESS
D FOUNDED
ENROLLIENT
TEACHERS
30 r.46
30 Nov. 46
30p.46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
I.1
F
T
F
T
F
T
272 Tateai Sho Gakko (Tate-
Tateai-mura, Hiraka-
pril 1387 318
261
579
309
257
566
8
5
13
8
4
12
ai Elementary School)
gun, kita Pref.
273
Tateiva Sho Gakko (Tate- Minase-mura, Oachi-
May 1889
141
155
296.142
154
296
6
4
10
6
4
10
iva Elementary Sch1.)*
gun, ikitapref.
274
Tazawa Sho Gakko (Taza-
Tazava-mure, Senboku-
oct. 1874
186
185
371
188
183
371
7
6
13
7
6
13
we Elenentery School)
gun, kita Pref.
275
Ten jin Sho Gakko (Ten-
Nanakura-mura, Kita-
pril 1904
145 . 134
279
145
133
278
4
4
8
4
4
8
jin Elementary School)
kita-gun, kita Pref.
276
Tenno Sho Gakko (Tenno
Tenno-mura, Minani-
March 1875
752
782
1534
752
782
1534
20
15
35
20
15
35
Elementary School)**
ekita-gun, kita Pref.
277
Teradate Sho Gákko (Te-
Kowakubi-mura, Senboku-
Jan. 1875
146
139
285
143
145
288
4
2
6
4
3
7
radate Elementary School)gun, Lkita Pref.
278
Toga Sho Gakko (Toga
Toga-mura, Minani-
May 1877
146142
288
154
147
301
6
3
9
6
3
9
Elementary School)
kita-gun, kita Pref.
279
Tokiwa Sho Gakko (Tóki-
Tokiva-mura, Yamamoto-
June 1875
320
293
613
311
297
608
6
9
15
8
10
18
wa Elementary School)
gun, kite Pref.
280
Tomai Sho Gakko (Tomai
Tomai-mura, Yuri-
March 1874
247
209
456
246
203
449
9
2
11
9
2
11
Elementary.School)
gun, Akita Pref.
281
Tomekawa Sho Gakko (To-
Tonekawa-mura, Kavebe-
Nov. 1926
266
241
507262
234
496
3
11
5.
9
mekawe EMementary Schl.)
gun, kita Prof.
282
Tomine Sho Gakko (Tomi-
Tomine-mura, Yamamoto-
4pril 1875
288
282
570
294
282
576
6
10
16
7
16.
ne Elementary School)
gun, ita Pref.
283
Toshima Sho Gakko (To-
Mada-machi, Kawabe-
March 1875
331
288
619
321
282
603
9
8
17
11
7
18
shima Elementery Schl.)
gun, kita Pref.
284
Toyoina Sho Gakko (Toyo-
Toyoiwa-nura, Lavabe-
Sept. 1875
287
239
526
290
233 . 523
8
12
12
ive Elementary School)
gun, kita pref.
285
Toyokawa Sho Gakko (To- Showa-machi Minami-
Sept. 1876
315
292
607
309
293602
8
8
16
17
yokara Elementary Schl.) kita-gun, kita Pref.
The figures for this institution include those for two branch schools under the same administration.
The figures for this institution include those for one branch school uder the same administrati on.

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.99)
NANE
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
30 Apr. 46
ENROLLIENT
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
TEACHERS
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
N
F
T
Sept. 1874
275
256
531
270
254
524
4
7
11
4
6
10
286
Toyokawa Sho Galko (To- Toyokawa-nura, Senboku-
yokawa Elementary Schl.) gun, Akita Pref.
287
Toyooka Sho Gakko (To-
Toyooka-mura, Semboku-
July 1884
316
265
581
317
266
583
.7
5
12
7
5
12.
288
Tsubaki Sho Gakko (Tsu-
yooka Elementary School) gun, Akita Pref.
Funagawaminato-machi, Mi- Dec. 1883
237
269
506
233
270
503
5
4
9
6.
4
10
baki Elementary Schl.)
nami-Akita-gun, Akita Pref.
289 Tsubakikawa Sho Gakko
Higashinaruse-mura,
June 1883
136
124
260
142
123
265
7
2
9
7
4
11
(Tsubakikawa Elementary
Ogachi-gun, Akita Pref.
School) *
April 1879 181
159
340
181 156
337
5
5
10
5
4
9
290
Tsuchikawa Sho Galiko(Tsu- Tsuchikawa-mura, Sembo
chikawa Elementary Schl.) ku-gun, Akita pref.
July 1874
152
141
293
149
147
29ó
5
4
9
6
3
9
291
Tsurugata Sho Gakko (Tsu- Tsurugata-mura, Yanamo-
rugata Elementary Schl.) to-gun, Akita Pref.
411
776
393
400. 793
11
10.
21
10
10
20
292
Tsuzureko Sho Gakko (Tsu- Tsuzureko-mura, Kita-Akita- July 1874 365
zureko Elementary Schl.)**gun, kita Pref.
April 1875 220
230
450
216
218
434
5
3
8
6.
3
9
293
Uchikawa Sho Gakko (Uchi- Uchikava-mura, Minami-
kawa Elenentary School) Akita-gun, Akita Pref.
403
423
826
397
404
801
9
8
17
10
19
294
Uchiotomo Sho Galko (Uchi-Uchiotomo-mura, Senboku- June 1910
295
otomo Elementary School)
Ueda Sho Gakko (Ueda
gun, Akita Pref.
Ueda-mura, Hiraka-gun,
July 1874
442
425
867
386
383
769
10
7
17
9
8
17
296
Ugui suno Sho Gakiko (Ugu-
Elementary School)
Nagano-machi, Semboku-
Akita Pref.
pril 1892 132
119
251
134
118252
3
5
8
isuno Elementary School)
gun, kita Pref.
Sept. 1875 205
154
359
206
156362
5
4
9
297
Umakawa Sho Gakko (Uma-
Go jonome-machi, Lnami-
kawa Elementary Schl.)
Akita-gun, Akita. Pref.
May 1875
256
207
463
262
220 482
4
10
14
298
Umesawa Sho Gakko (Ume-
Jindai-mura, Semboku-
sawa Elementary School)
gun, ikita Pref.
pril 1875 366
339
705
366
339
705
7
9
299 Unoki Sho Gakiso (Unoki
Katanishi-mura, Minami-
Elementary School)
Akita-gun, Akita Pref.
The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the same. adiinistration.
The figures for this institution include those for two branch schools under the same administration.
-73-

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.99)
NALE
ADDRESS
FHE FOUNDED
ENROLIMENT
TEACHERS
30 r. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
300 Urata Sho Gakko (Urata
Yonaizawa-machi, Kita-
Sept. 1922
8987
176
85
89
174
2
3
5
2
3
5
Elementary School)
Akita-gun, kita Pref.
301
Uzuno Sho Galdko (Uzuno
Funaoka-mure, Kawabe-
July 1874
120
107
227
118
103221
8
5
4
9
Elementary School)
gun, kita Pref.
302
Wada Sho Gakko (Wada
Wada-machi, Kawabe-
March 1874
466 393 859 460
394 8549
10
19
9
10
19
Elementary School)
gun, Akita Pref.
303
Wakimoto Daiichi Sho
Wakimoto-mura, Minami-
July 1875
480
488 968482
475
957-10.
9
19
8
11
19
Gakko (mekimoto First
Akita-gun, kita Pref.
Elementary School)
304
Wakimoto Daini Sho Gakko Wekimoto-mura, Minani-
July 1875
218
234
452
217
229
446
4
5
9
5
9
(akimoto Second Elemen- kita-gun, kita Pref.
tary School)
305
Yadate Sho Gakko (Yada- Yadate-mura, Kita-
Dec. 1874
299
217 516
295
210 505 6. 5
11
6
5
11
te Elementary School)
Akita-gun, kita Pref.
306
Yagihashi Sho Gakko (Ya- Nishi Date-mura, Kita-
July 1878
8487
171
84
87
171
3
2
5
3
2
5
gihashi Elementary Schl.) kita-gun, Akita Pref.
307
Yamada Sho Gakko (Yamada Yamase-mura, Kita-
July 1874
147 158
305
143
157
300
6
3
9
5
4
9
Elementary School)
Akita-gun, Akite pref.
308
Yamada Sho Gakko (Yamada Yamada-mura, Ogachi-
July 1874
655
641
1296
637
631
1268
11
14
25
11
1425
Elementary School)
gun, kita Pref.
309
Yąmaya Sho Gakko (Yamaye Taihei-mura, Linemi-
May 1878
121
120
241
121
119
240
6
2
8
5
3
8
Elementary School)
kita-gun, kita Pref.
310
Yamaya Sho Gakko (Yanaya Tokiwa-mura, Yamamoto-
June 1892
91
84
175
88
80
168
3
2
5
3
6
Elementary School)
gun, kita Pref.
311
Yariminai Sho Gakko (Ya- Nagano-machi, Semboku-
Sept. 1898
100· 122
222
102
121
223
5
8
5
2
7
riminai Elementary Schl.)gun, kita Pref.
312
Yasawagi Daiichi Sho
Yasawagi-mura, Hiraka-
May 1878
328 321
649
335
323
658
10
8
18
11
20
Gakko (Yasawagi First
gun, kita Pref.
Elementary School)**
The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the semo administration.
The figures for this institution include those for two branch schools under the same administration.

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.99)
NME
DDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TELCHERS
30 ipr. 46
30 Nov. 46.
30 ipr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
三
F
T
F
T
F
T
313
Yesawagi Daini Sho Cakko Yasavagi-mura, Hiraka- Dec. 1903
211
179
390
215
178
393
5
5
10
6
5
11
(Yasawagi Second Elemen- gun, Lkitc Pref.
tary School) *
314
Yashima Sho Gokko (Ya- Yashima-machi, Yuri-
Dec. 1873
.918
904
1822
939
912
1851
23
20
43
25
20
45
shimn Elementary Schl.)**gun, kita Pref.
315
Yodokawa Sho Gakko (Yo- Yodokawa-mura, Senbo- pril 1876
128
111
239
123
111
234
4
8
5
3
8
dokawa Élemontary Schl.) ku-gun, kita Pref.
316
Yokobori Sho Gakko (Yo- Yokobori-machi, Oga-
Jan. 1875
348
340
688
249
345
594
9
8
17
10
8
18
kobori Elementary Schl.) chi-gun, Akita Pref.
317
Yokobori Sho Gakko (Yo- Yokobori-mura, Sembo-
Sept. 1876
475
437
912
486
447
933
9
10
19
9
1019
kobori Elementery Schl.) ku-gun, ikitc Pref.
318
Yokosewa Sho Gekko (Yoko-Yokoscna-mura, Senbo- Sept. 1874
546
476
1022
531
466
997
11
11
22
11
11
22
sava Elementary Schl.)* ku-gun, kita Pref.
319, Yoncizawe Sho Gakko (Yo- Yonaizava-machi, Kita- May 1875
549
539
1088
597
541
1138
10
11
21
12
12
24
naizawa Elementary Schl.)kite-gun, kita Pref.
320
Yoneto Sho Gakko (Yone-
Kasuge-ura, Yenamoto- Jan. 1876
156
129
285
15
132
286
6
1
7
5
3
8
ta Elementary Schl.)*
gun, kito Pref.
321
Yoshida Sho Gekko (Yo-
Yoshida-mura, Hiraka- July 1874
528
491
1019
522
486
1008
10
10
20
21
11
22
shida Elementary Schl.)
gun, kita Pref.
322
Yotsugoya Sho Gakko (Yo- Yotsugoya-nura, Ka-
Fob. 1875
247
231
478
247
231
478
5
4
9
5
9
tsugoye Elementery Schl.)webe-gun, kite Pref.
323
Yotsuyn Sho Gakko (Yo-
Yotsuya-mure, Sombo-
Mey 1874
437
375
812
432
363
795
8
10
18
9
18
tsuya Elomentary Schl.)
ku-gun, ikita Pref.
324
Zawahigashine Sho Gakko
Hataya-mura, Scmboku- Sopt. 1887
176
166
342
177
165
342
4
5
9
4
3
9
(Zawahigashino Elomen-
gun, kita Pref.
tary School)
102999
201528 102310
200246 2395 2315 4710 2473 2299 4772
Total
98529
97936
-75-

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.98)
ROSTER OF JAPLNESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
AKITA PREFECTURE
V. PRIVATE SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Education (ehuto Kyoiku)
1. Vocaticnal Schools (Jitaugyo Gekko)
e. Special Kinds of Vocational Schools (Tokushu Jitsugyo Gakko)
3) Special Kinds  Vocati onal Schools for Females (Joshi Tokushu Jitsusyo Gakko). kite refecture
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLIMENT
TEACHERS
30 pr. 46.
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
II
F
T
kita Joshi Jitsugyo
Shimonaka jo-machi,
May 1908
1488 1488
1490 1490
31
23
54
31 23
54
Gakko (kita Girls'
Lkita City, kita Pref.
Vocational Schcol)
Total
1488 1488
1490 1490 31
23
54
31
23
54
V. PRIVTE SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
3. Girls! Hish Schools (Koto Jo Gakko), kita Prefecture
NAME
DDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLILENT #
TEACHERS
30p.46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
Seirei Koto Jo Gakko
Kamenochomotoshime-
March 1909
786
786
767
767
6
22
28
6
22
28
(Seirei Girls' High Schl.)machi, kita City, kita
Prefecture
Total
786 786
767 767
6
22
28
6.
22
28
These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
76
0100 v0 1 svmmk 947

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.97)
ROSTER OF JAPINESE EID CATICNLL INSTITUTI ONS
AKITA PREFECTURE
V. PRIVATE SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Education. (Chuto Kyoiku)
4. Youth Schools (Seinen Gakko)
a) Youth Schools for ales (Danshi Seinen Gakko), kita prefecture
NAME
ADDRESS
DITE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TEACHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
I
F
T
II
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
1 Hanaoka Kozan Seinen Gaiko Hanaoka-machi, Kita-
pril 1935
76
76
76
76
0-3
3
0-3
3
(Hanaoka Mine Youth Schl.) kita-gun, ita Pref.
2 Odate Teishin Koshusho
Odate-machi, Kita-kite- Oct. 1941
15
15
15
15
0-2
2
0-2
2
(Odate Training School of gun, kita Pref.
Communications)
Total
91
91
91
91
0-5
5
V. PRIVITE SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
4. Youth Schools (Seinen Gakko)
c) Co-educational Youth Schools (Dan-Jo Kyogaku Seinen Gakko), Akita Prefecture
x
NAME
4DDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TECHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
T
M
F
T
1 kimoku Jitsugyo Senshu Noshiro City, kita
July 1939
365
48
413
329
31
360.
7-1 4-1 13
6
Seinen Gakko (Akimoku Busi- Pref.
ness Special Youth Sch ool)
2
Tamura Tekkojo Seinen
Yamase-mura, Kita-kita- May 1939
32
6
3829
29
2-21
5
12
3
Gakko (Tamura Iron-Foundry gun, Akita Pref.
Youth School)
Total
397 54 451 358 31 389 9-3 5-1 18
13
#
These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the sohool records as of these dates
The mumber of both full and pert-time teachers is incidated in this report. Where there are two numbers entered in the same columm
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the number of part-time teachers.
-777

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.98)
ROSTER" U: JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
AKITA PREFECTURE
4KTT4
V. PRIVATE SCHOOLS
C. Elementary Education (Shoto Kyoiku)
2. Kindergartens (Yochien), kita prefecture
NALE
▲DDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TEACHERS
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
II
F
T
F
T
1 kita Hoikusho
Nakakamenochokami-cho,
April 1945
10
10
20
10
10
20
2
4
6
2
4
6
(kita Nursery)
kita City, kita Pref.
2 kita Yochien
Kamenochodote-machi,
May 1906
48
49
97
48
49
97
2
4
6
2
4
6
(kita Kindergarten)
kita City,Akite Pref.
3
Eiko Yochien
Shimonaga-machi, Akita
pril 1936
45
53
98
45
53
103
1
4
5
1
4
5
(Kiko Kindergarten)
City, Akita Pref.
4
Hon jo-machi Daiichi Hoi-
Hon jo-machi, Yuri-gun,
4pril 1930
63
60
123
50
48
98
2
4
6
2
3
5
kusho (Hon jo-machi First
Akita Pref.
Nursery)
5
Hon jo Yochien (Hon jo
Hon jo-machi, Yuri-
pril 1926
44
52
96
36
51
87
1
3
4
1
3
4
Kindergarten)
gun, kite Pref.
6
Jonanen
Narayama Toranckuchishin- May 1941
75
83
158 7 73
80
153
5
5
5
5
(Jonan Kindergarten)
machi, Akita City,
Akita Pref.
7 Kakudetemachi Hoikusho
Kakudate-machi, Semboku- Sept. 1941
93
79
172
85
75
160
4
4
8
4
(Kakudatemachi Nursery)
gun, Akita Pref.
6 Mariyaen
Yokote-machi, Hiraka-
May 1930
117
107
224
105
111
216
1
5
6
1
5
(Maria Kindergarten)
gun, kita Pref.
19
Masuda Yochien
Masuda-machi, Hiraka-
Dec. 1930
56
74
130
65
76
141
1
3
4
6
(Masuda Kindergarten)
gun, Akita Pref.
10
Odate Yochien
Odate-machi, Kita-kita- July 1918
56
61
117
52
59
111
1
5
6
1
6
(Odate Kindergarten)
gun, Akita Pref.
These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records aa of the
-78-

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.99)
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TRACHERS
30.pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
I
F
T
M
F
T
11 Runbinien
Tera-machi, Akita City, May 1937
160
166
326
112.. 174
286
9
9
9
9
(Runbini Kindergarten)
kita Pref.
12
Seishi Yochien
Hodononaka-cho, kita
April 1905
73
75
148
73
75
148
1
5
6
1
5
6.
(Seishi Kindergarten)
City, Akita Pref.
13
Takanosu Hoikuen
Takanosu-cho, Kita-
May 1941
39
53
92.
31
45.
7.6
6
6
6
6
(Yakanosu Nursery)
kita-gun, Akite Pref.
14
Tei jo Yochien
Yanagi-machi, Noshiro
April 1929
72
88
160
75
95
170
6
6
6
6
(Tei jo Kindergerten)
City, Akita Pref.
15
Toko Yochien
Tenno-mura, Minami-kita- July 1942
51
54
105
50
58
108
2
3
5
2
3
5
(Toko Kindergarten)
gun, kita Pref.
16
Tauchizaki Yochien
Tsuchizaki-machi, kite Feb. 1946
201
202
403
201
202
403
1
7
8
1.
7
8
(Tsuchizaki Kindergarten)City, kita Pref.
17
Yashima Hoikusho
Yashime-machi, Yuri-
June 1936
83
75
158
63
58
121
3.
3
3
3
(Yashima Nursery)
gun, Akita Pref.
18
Yokote Shiritsu Yochien
Yokote-machi, Hiraisa-
ug.1914
120
132
252
114
125
239
6
6
6
6
(Yokote Private Kinder-
gun, kita Pref.
garten)
19
Yazawamachi Bukkyo
Yazawa-machi, Ogachi-
June 1931
53
56
109
38
42
80
2
5
7
2
5
7
Yochien (Yazawamachi
gun, Akita Pref.
Buddhist Kindergarten)
Total
1459 1529 2988
1326 1491 2817
27
85
112
27
86
113
79-

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.98)
ROSTER CF JIPANESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
¿KITA
AKITL PREFECTURE
VI. SCHOOLS UNDER THE JURISDICTION OF MINISTRIES OTHER THAN THE MINISTRY OF EDUCLTION
B. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
1. Vocatianal Schools (Jitsugyo Gakko)
a. Trainin Institute for ah ( tnshi Yocci jo) under the Control of Hc.e Ministry, kite refecture
TEACHERS
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
30p.46
ENROLLMENT
30 Nov. 46
30 p.46
30 Nov. 46
Not Given
M
40
F
T
40
40
F
T
40
M
6
F
T
6
M
6
F
T
6
kitaken Keisatsu Renshujo Shimo-Nake jo-machi,
(kita Prefectural Policc kita City, Akita
Training School)
Pref.
5
130
130
181
c/o Tsuchizaki Engine- April 1946
Tsuchizaki Tetsudo Kyoku
Kokibu Ginosha Yosei jo
ering Dept., kite
(Tsuchizaki Engineers'
City, kita Pref.
Training Institute of the
Railroad Bureau Engi-
neering Dept.)
170
170
221
221
11
11
11
11
Total
These figures are not . those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
80

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.98)
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCTIONAL INSTITUTIONS
AKITA PREFECTURE
VI. SCHOOLS UNDER MINISTRIES OTHER THAN MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
B. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
4. Youth Schools (Seinen Gakko)
Communication
8) Youth Schools for Males (Panshi Seinen Gakko) under Ministries of
end Transportation, kita Prefecture
NAME
¿DDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLLENT
TEACHERS
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30 . 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
1 kita Teishin Seinen Kun- kita City, kita
Nov. 1941
45
45
45
45
14
14
11
11
ren jo (kita Communica-
Pref.
tion Youth School)
kita Tetsudo Seinen
kita-shi, kita
4pril 1946
1828
1828
1828
1828
8
8
8
8
Gakko (kite Railway
Prefecture.
Youth School)
3
Noshiro Teishin Seinen
Noshiro-machi, kita
Nov. 1941
11
11
12
12
9
9
8
8
Kunron jo (Noshiro Com-
Pref.
munication Youth Schl.)
4 Odate Teishin Seinen Kun-
Odate-machi, kita
Oct. 1941
17
17
19
19
3
3
3
3
renjo (Odate Communica-
Pref.
tion Youth School)
Total
1901
1901
1904
1904 34
34
30
30
VI. SCHOOLS UNDER THE JURISDICTION OF MINISTRIES OTHER THIN THE LINISTRY OF EDUCATION
C. Special Schools (Tokushu Gakko)
b. Juvenile Correction Schools (Shonen Kyosoin) under the Jurisdiction of Ministry of Welfare, kita Prefecture
NALE
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLIMENT #
TEACHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
1 Senshu Gekuen (Senshu
No. 3, Nakemi, Nake jima- April 1904 . 18
18
16
16
2
2
2
2
School)
cho, kita City, Akita
Pref.
Total
18
18
16
16
2
2
2
#
These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these date
- 81-

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.62)
8
207
