894.503111 Economic Matters., Capital., Investment Of, Or Field For Investment Of, Capital Of Japan In United States., August 14, 1941 (File 1290)
ID: 894.503111-1290   Pages: 3   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.503111-economic-matters-capital-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
DER
PE
H
PC

894.503111/2
PS/MM

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECEIVED
AUG 14 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

894.503111/2

Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Berle:

For your information and as of possible interest to you, this is to advise that the Portland, Oregon, Field Office of this Bureau ascertained from a strictly confidential source that at the request of the Japanese Foreign Office an obligatory form marked "Urgent" was sent to the First Generation Japanese in the State of Oregon by the Japanese Consul's Office in Portland. The First Generation Japanese were requested to list the value of all of their real and personal property, together with their cash and merchandise holdings. These forms were completed and returned to the Consul's Office in Portland. As a result of this circularization the Japanese Consul's Office in Portland was able to compile the following figures concerning First Generation Japanese in Oregon:

|  The value of all real and personal property | 990,800.00  |
| --- | --- |
|  2. Merchandise holdings | 854,770.00  |
|  3. Cash | 342,350.00  |
|  TOTAL | $2,187,920.00  |

The Japanese Foreign Office was advised by the Portland Japanese Consul's Office of the above mentioned figures. It was further learned from the same confidential source that one H. Y. Kato was listed as the wealthiest Japanese in Oregon, possessing property in the amount of $65,000.00.

This confidential source further advised that on the date the Japanese Cabinet resigned in Japan, the Japanese Acting Consul in Portland, namely Yutaka Oka, completed the destruction

DECLASSIFIED
Justice Department
By JKIC
NARS, Date 5-16-1964

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Page Two

by burning of all confidential correspondence and materials in the Japanese Consul's Office in Portland. All of the materials under lock and key which were in the Consul's Office were taken by Oka to the furnace in the building in which the office was located and were burned by him. This correspondence and material evidently included everything which the Consul felt should never get into the hands of the United States Government officials. It was also ascertained that the code book used by the Japanese Consul is kept in the Consul's private residence and all code messages are decoded by him at his residence. Nothing remains in the office except unimportant correspondence, office equipment and directories. All correspondence is sent by registered mail or by courier who comes without notice.

The Japanese Consul has been endeavoring to obtain a list of German and Italian nationals in Portland and recently Oka obtained and mailed to the Japanese Foreign Office a Portland city directory. This was sent at the request of the Foreign Office.

Further information received is to the effect that the Japanese are extremely spy conscious and are suspicious of everyone, and Oka apparently does not even trust those who have been working with him in Portland for many years. The confidential source stated that the Japanese Consul has apparently taken all the necessary preliminary precautionary steps in the event of any grave crisis which may arise between the United States and Japan.

There was obtained from this confidential source a form which was sent, or which can be obtained, at the Japanese Consul's Office by Second Generation Japanese. This form was in the Japanese language and translations of same have been made. A copy of the translated form is being transmitted herewith.

Should any further information be obtained concerning this matter you will be kept advised.

Sincerely yours,

J. E. Hoover

Enclosure

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.97)
TRANSLATION FROM THE JAPANESE
PETITION TO REMOVANCE CITIZENSHIP

Place of Permanent abode: Urban Prefecture City
Prefecture County
Street Village House Number

Head of Family:

Present Residence: North America, United States, State
County City Street Number

Name of Renouncer:

Date of Birth: Year Month Day

The above person, in accordance with provision No. 2 of Article 20, Clause No. 2
of the Law of Nationality, desires to renounce his Japanese Citizenship. In
support thereof the necessary supplementary documents are presented on the
attached paper.

Showa Year Month Day
(Present Japanese Era Name)

Name of Petitioner:

Date of Birth: Year Month Day

To the Honorable Minister of Foreign Affairs.
