894.544 Intellectual And Industrial Property. Applications For Patents And Copyrights, Registration Of Particular Trade Marks, And Contests Arising Therefrom Are Arranged Alphabetically Under The Respective Numbers., Copyrights. ** Country (File 1673)
ID: 894.544-1673   Pages: 81   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.544-intellectual-and-industrial-4
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
fle
TO
: Le Legal Adviser's Office
DATE: 8 February 1946
320-96
LERAL ADVISE
DC/R
FROM :
OIC Frank A. Schuler, Jr
Acting Assistant Chief
FEB121946
SUBJECT:
Division of Occupied Areas
DEPATN OF STATE
In a tele-conference witn Tokyo on February 7, 1946 the Civil In-
formation and Education Section of General MacArtnur's Headquarters raised
the following questions in connection with copyright problems in Japan:
"Whatever USIBA decides, there are basic aspects of the copyright
problem which need State Department clarification. Is tne American-Japanese
1906 Copyright Agreement considered null and void? If so, is notification
of its nullification required? If required, will the State Department make
the announcement, and how soon? As nullification of the agreement still
would leave American copyrights unreccgnized and unprotected in Japan, does
894.544
the State Department recommend that formal steps be taken to provide such
recognition and protection? If action is taken in tne form of a SCAP memo-
randum to the Japanese Government, should the terms of sucn protection be
those of American Copyright Law, those of Japanese Copyright Law or those
of tne Berne Copyright Convention?
Except for members of the International Copyrignt Union, other
allied nations enjoy in Japan no protection of their copyrights. Does the
State Department wisn to initiate inouiries as to whether they desire to be
included in wnatever is done to protect American copyrights? Should action
on American copyrights be held up until tney have replied? Some countries,
it night be pointed out, might prefer to place no restrictions on Japanese
use of materials copyrignted by tneir nationals.
What are your views on policy and procedure relative to the handling
of reguests from Japanese publishers for the making of arrangements with non-
American copyrignt holders?
Please realize that delay in clarification will encourage pirating
nere end complicate eventual arrangements."
The opinion of the Legal Adviser's Office witn respect to these
matters would be appreciated.
21.
894.544
FAS/ws
CS/VJ
cc Mr. Richard Heindel
MAR 20 1946
FILED
2
80

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
orc - tr. Schuler:
Reference is made to your memorandum of February 8,
t946 regarding copyright protection in Japan, in which
you request the views of this office upon problems raised
in a tele-conference with Tokyo on February 7. The ehief
questions appear to be (1) whether the copyright eonven-
tion s1gned November 10, 1905 between the United States
and Japan is still in force; and (2) what aetion, if any,
should be taken with respect to the protection in Japen
of American copyright owners.
The convention referred to (1 Malloy's Treaties 1037,
34 Stat. 2890) provides in Art1cle 1 that nationals of each
party shall enjoy in the territory of the other party "pro-
tection of copyright ... against illegal reproduction,
on the same basis on which protection is granted to the
subjects or citizens of the other". Article 2 provides
however, that nationals of either party "may without auther-
ization translate" works "published in the dominions of the
other by the subjects or citizens of the latter, and print
and publish such translations". Under this convention
American citizens could obtain copyright in Japan upon
compliance with formalities required under Japanese law,
but works copyrighted in the United States did not suto-
matically enjoy protection in Japan. Furthermore, Japanese
nationals were permitted to translate and publish in Japan
works published and copyrighted in the United States by
American citizens, without having to obtain the authoriza-
tion of the American copyright owners.
It is understood that Japan was a party to the Bern
Convention, under which a work copyrighted in one of the
momber countries is automaticelly entitled to copyright
in Japan, and which does not contain any provision for
unauthorized translations. (The United States is not a
perty to the Bern Convention.) Consequently, nationals of
other Bern Convention countries were entitled to more favor-
able copyright treatment in Japan than were American citisens.
I am not aware of any position as yet taken by the
Department regarding the effect of war upon the Convention
of November 10, 1905. Definite arrangements wil1 no doubt
bo

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
be made, in connection with the peace settlement, as to
which treaties between the several United Mations and
Japan will be maintained in force, and whieh ones regarded
as having been terminated or suspended as the result
of the outbreak of war between the parties. In the present
state of international law pertaining to the offeet of war
upon treaties, it would be difficult to maintain that smch
a convention is necessarily terminated or suspended, or
that it necessarily remains in force. It may be observed
that the Treaty of Versailles and the other peace treaties
after the First World War enabled the several Allied and
Associated Powers to designate the treaties between them
and the Central Powers which would continue in foree, and
that the peace treaties provided that all other sueh
treaties not named were to "remain abrogated". It is not
unreasonable to expect that similar arrangements may be
made this time. In view of the permission for unauthorised
translations, it is quite possible that the United States
will decide not to keep this convention in force. Under the
circumstances it would seem best not to take a positive stand
that the convention is, or is not, in force.
Whether the convention is in force, or not, it would
appear that we are in a position, consequent upon the
surrender, to insist upon such a regime of copyright pro-
tection for Americans in Japan, during the present period
of occupation and control over Japan, as is deemed fair and
just. (This statement, of course, is confined to the present
"interim" period, and does not refer to the future regime of
copyright relations which may be established upon the return
of peace.) Under present conditions it would be impractieable
for Americans to comply with such formalities as registration
in Japan; practical and legal obstacles stand in the way of
such transactions. Under the present unusual circumstanees
in Japan, it would seem reasonable for us to insist upon
copyright treatment for American works no less favorable
than that accorded nationals of other countries. Insistence,
for the time being, upon unconditional most-favored-nation
treatment in this matter would not appear improper, even
though Japanese authors may obtain under the Bern Convention
automatic copyright protection in other countries parties to
that convention which they do not get in the United States.
The

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
The actual extent to which Japanese alien enemies are
permitted to enjoy benefits from copyright in the Umited
Nations is quite limited. We should net be too trembled
by the fact that we may be getting more rights in Japan
than we are giving Japanese nationals here.
Although it would appear appropriate to arrange fer
most favored nation protection for Ameriean works in Japan
during this abnormal period, there would seem to be no
basis for insisting that the extent and nature of the pre-
tection be that accorded under United States law. The
rights and protection granted Ameriean authors in Japan
should be such as are provided by Japanese law, but should
be on no less favorable terms than those accorded to
nationals of Bern Convention countries.
I understand that Mr. Befans of RP, Treaty Section,
coneurs in substance in these views. In case the other
interested divisions of the Department have similar views,
there would appear to be no objection to the issuanee of
an appropriate SCaP memorandum or directive to the Japanese
Government.
Le:WwBishop:vb
3-12-46

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISION OF
ACTION CO
CENTRAL SERVICES
TELEGRAPH SECTION
DEPARTMENT
TATE
INCOMING TELEGRAM
ACTION:O10
INFO:
FE
i.
A-B
ERA-
H
2581
SA/M
Paraphrase before com-
EUR
municating to anyone.
Tokyo via War
DC/R
Undated
CONFIDENTIAL
Rec'd March 7, 1946
3:50 p.m.
SECSTATE
Unnumbered, Undated
MAR 1 9 1946
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THIS IS TORWA 167.
894
Copyright reltions between Japan and United States,
Britain, Russia, lina and all other Allied countries was
subject of inguiry from Japanese Govt and necessitates immeai
ate reply to 8 Feb uary TELEcoN exchange and copyright ques-
544/3-746
tions asked thepeil.
MESSAGE UNSIGNED
1946
WTD
CONFIDENTIAL
. Hd
 S I
(A33)
ans
318/45
Redrafted
3/27/46 afte)
conmiltation
with mr. Bishog(he)
and mr. Schuler ADo
e9sfile
PERMANENT RECORD COPY: THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R WITH NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.97)
5072
PREPARING OFFICE
TELEGRAM SENT
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
Collect
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
PLAIN
Department of State
MESSAGE:
Charge Department:
PLAIN
Washington
Chargo to COPYRIGHT OFFICE
SCAP, TOKYO
SEP 23 1947
Info War Dept Chief of Staff
894.544/9-2347
372
For Political Adviser
In response to  telegram of September 11, 1947
to  Register of Copyrights, please inform Costa
Italian Diplomatic Mission that Italian authors may
secure copyrights for unpublished musical compositions.
Instructions  being mailed for delivery to Costa.
Lavett
Acting
(CTW)
SEP 
ar
DCT
CE DESK
RANE
8
CP:WMcCluthe:1gm
9-17-47

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.95)
Office of
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEC151947
Memorandum of Conversation
SECRET
DATE: December 10, 1947
SUBJECT:
SANACC 388 (Army Paper on Copyrights)
FW 894.544/12-347
PARTICIPANTS: Mrs. Plunder - CAD
Mr. McDiarmid - OE
Mr. Schuler - ADO
Mr. Kroll - ADO
Mr. Green - NA
COPIES TO:
Participants
Mr. Allison
eDe
1-1493
x8
Mr. Green opened the discussion by outlining what he
understood to be the general reaction of the State Depart-
ment working members to SAnACC 388 as follows:
According to pages 7 and 15 of SANACC 388, the paper
has evidently been drawn up in direct response to SCAPis
cable CM-IN 3137, 16 October 1947. In this cable SCAP has
requested a policy decision from the FEC or from the US
CS/ A
unilaterally on two questions which he considered to be
outside his jurisdiction to decide -- 1) the treatment of
UN copyrighted works in Japan, and 2) whether or not the
1905 US-Japanese Copyright Convention has been abrogated.
SANACC 388 avoids the first of these two questions by re-
lating the paper only to US not UN copyrighted materials.
As to the second question, SANACc 388 is believed to advo-
cate a policy with respect to the abrogation of the 1905
Convention which is not consistent with our over-all policy.
m
Le/T is now preparing an opinion on the legal aspects
894.54412.3
of the abrogation of the convention, which will be ready by
the end of the week. It is known that Le/T adheres to the
Department's April 12, 1946 cabled recommendatio to SCAP
(CM-IN 2428) that pending a peace settlement witn Jaman
DCK
T Unlt
1
ILED
"i
would
1948
Rev.
SECRET
Gat.
Dist.
f

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
一2 -
"it would seem best not to take a positive stand that the
(1905) convention is or is not in force." In support of
that position, Le/T has informally expressed doubt that
the US as an occupying power can legally abrogate a treaty
existing between it and a country having no internationally
recognized government. It has also pointed out that by
abrogating this treaty, we would imply that other unexpired,
unabrogated US-Japanese treaties are still in effect and
this might not be in our national interest. A further ob-
jection is raised as to whether it is possible to abrogate
Article II of the 1905 convention without abrogating the
whole convention or without US Senate ratification. Such
an act might also be regarded by member countries of the
International Copyright Union (of which the US is not a
member) as discriminatory, in as much as Japan when join-
ing the Union specifically included a free translation
proviso substantially the equivalent of Article II.
In summary -- except for SANACC 388's proposed abro-
gation of the 1905 convention, this paper apparently does
not propose to do anything which SCAp is not already doing
under Circular 12 or which he is not entitled to do in his
capacity as CINCFE. Since there are material objections to
the abrogation of the treaty at this time, it is difficult
to see the need for the paper as it is now drafted.
Mrs. Plunder commented that she would appreciate re-
ceiving a copy of Le/T's opinion which, of course, would
be basic to any redraft of this paper or to any reply which
might be made to CM-IN 3137. She stressed the importance
of speed in resolving this problem since the l2o-day option
clause in the Army's FY 1947 translation contracts for
SCAP are expiring. Questioned as to what reply, if any,
the Army had made to CM-IN 3137, Mrs. Plunder stated that
on November 17 the Army had cabled its approval of SCAP's
Plan "B" which was being implemented by the subject SANACC
paper proposed by the Army.
Mr. Schuler stated that while his Division, and in
fact the whole Department, fully supports the Army's desire
to stimulate the dissemination of U.S. copyright works in
Japan, nevertheless SANACC 388, in his opinion did not
propose measures that would necessarily accomplish this
end. If the abrogation clause (3a) were removed from the
paper's conclusions, the latter would recommend little
more than what is now contained in Circular 12. While it
is true that this paper designates a licensee, it is also
true that SCAP could do this without a SANACC decision.
Mr. Schuler
SECRET

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
-3-
Mr. Schuler pointed out that whatever decision was arrived
at by SANACC with respect to US copyrights would have to
be essentially the same as Circular l2 in order not to
discriminate against the copyrights of other countries.
Mr. McDiarmid observed that certain improvements
could be made on Circular 12 with respect to the reim-
bursement of American copyright holders. He stated that
payment out of a blocked yen account is inconsistent with
our expressed basic import-export policy for Japan. He
proposed alternatively that during the period of occupa-
tion, US copyright holders be paid in dollars at a speci-
fied annual fee per work for translation, reproduction and
performance rights, such payment to be made from appro-
priated funds to the extent they are available for this
purpose, or from Japan's import-export accounts in accord-
ance with paragraph 20(f) of SWncc 128/3. The arrangements
for dollar payments to news services providing news for
Japan was proposed by the Army at the direction of the
President.
In conclusion, the State Department members suggested,
and the Army member concurred, that in view of the fore-
going objections to SANACC 388, the paper should be with-
drawn; that in its place the Army should send, with State
clearance, a cabled reply to CM-IN 3l37. It was suggested
that the cable might: a) point out the anticipated diffi-
culties and delays in obtaining an FEC decision or US uni-
lateral action on Plan B; b) indicate the State Department's
position with regard to the abrogation of the 1905 conven-
tion; c) include for SCAP's information the conclusions
reached in Para 3b through 3e of SANACC 388.
(N.B. - Later the same day, the Army member expressed to
Mr. Green regret that the Army was unable to accept the
position taken by her at the meeting, being of the opinion
that some SANACC policy decision on Copyrights is required
by SCAP. The Army member proposed to submit an informal
redraft of SANACC 388 (amended on the basis of the
December 1o discussion) to the same working group next
week.)
SECRET
nwo
NA:MGreen/hhc

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.92)
SECRET
The wfind blue
S.GNED & RECEIVEU
3 December
IN7SWNCC
ugot
neewind un
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY, SANACC
SANAC
20ec4
Subject: SANaCc 388, Polioy for Treatment of U.S.
Copyrighted Literary Works in Japan.
894.544/12-347
Reference is made to the suggestion of the
Department of the Army that the subject paper be
considered by SANACC without prior reference to
the Far Eastern Subcommittee of SANACC.
The Department of State is of the opinion that
the complexities of the problem involved in the
proposed abrogation of parts of the United States-
Japan Convention of 1905, and the lack of suffi-
oient background information on the other proposals
in the paper would appear to preclude immediate
consideration at Committee level. The Department
of State therefore recommends that the subjeot paper
be referred to SFE for study and report as a matter
of urgency.
Charles E. Saltzman
A/FK
State Member
Chane shet made
aes cleseruncion attected boeue
CRET

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.94)
. SECRET
November 24, 1947
MEMORANDEM FOR THE SEGHREARY, SANACO
SANACC 38S, POLICT POR THGABMEIT OF U. S. COPYRIGHTED
RANT WKS IN JAPAN.
While the State Member would like to comply with the
Army Member's request that the subject paper be referred
directly to SaNACC without consideration by SFE, the com-
plexities of the problee and the lack of detailed infermation
on certain of the proposals outlined in the paper would appeer
to mke such a course difficult or useless. Accordingly.
it is recommended thet SaNACC 385 be referred to  for
consideration as a matter of urgency.
Charles E. Saltman
State Mamber
Stato-dray-Mavy-Air Coordinating Committee
9.9.2.
ADO:FASchuler, Jr./jg
11/24/47 OIE L/B
A-B
NA OE A-S
(Cleared by
(UNESCO)(Clr'a (Clr'd
telephone with
by 'phone by
Mr.Blak)
with Mr. Gre(m)
phone with
Mr.McDiarnn)
SECRET
3770

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.95)
Memorandum for the Secretary, SANACC
Copyright Belations with Japan
It has been brought to our attention that certain inquiries
have been made about the Japanese copyright law by the Civil Af-
fairs Division of the Army, and that there has been discussion
of Japanese intemational copyright relations in the Par Eastem
Commission. The Policy Committee on Intemational Copyright (Pcc)
of the Department of State has given consideration to the problem
and has drafted language for possible inclusion in the proposed
Treaty of Peace with Japan. In addition, the Policy Committme on
Copyright of this Department has considered steps to be takem
prior to the conclusion of the Treaty of Peace, including the pos-
sible abrogation of the Treaty of 1905 between the United States
and Japan, the deletion of Article XIVIII of the present Japanese
Copyright Law and other similar factors.
It would be very helpful to the Department if within the
near future, a meeting could be arranged between a representative
of the Department and representatives of SAnACC in order that the
matter may be considered thoroughly.
Charles E. Salsman
State Member
State-Army-Mavy-Air Coordinating Committes
ce-lfiss Ware
1R
Pracken
OE
NA
in allison
- T.E. Pracken:er
11/13/47
4m7umm
3068

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.96)
ConfideTual
STANDARD PORM NO. 64
TO
NA - Marshall Green
DATE: February 10, 1948
Jigae Conget
FROM :
IR -John F. Furman
SUBJECT:
FEC Copyright Paper.
Pursuart to my telephone convers tion with you of
today. the following roints ere a sketchy su mary of my
attituce on the FEC peper on Japanese copyrights:
1. It is the present intention of the Stete Depert-
ment to provice in the Peace Treaty with Japan for the
extension of tern of conyright beyond the date of the
Tre: ty for a neriod equal to the period of the wer and
occunetion (vith the limitation that conyright owners may
9
qualify for such extended rights only by renouncing or
94.
refunding royalties which have been paid or credited to
them since Decemter 7, 1941). One of the purposes of such
a provision will be to compensate owners of rights for
uses of their works which CAP may find desirable during
the perioa of the occunation.
2. SCAF, as occupying nower, hes broad powers to
use property to acconnlish his objectives, whichpowers in-
2
clude the right to use property without the permission of
1
1048
the owner where special circumstences justify such use.
3.
Copyright relations between the United States
and Janan during the prewar period were such that no
rights in translations of United States works existed
under Japanese copyright law. This limitation on the
potential

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
pctential rights of authors in the Treaty of 1905 was
agreed to by the United States Government, apparently in
consideration of the so-called manufacturing clause in
the United Stetes conyright lav (which the Japanese con-
sidered unfair and vhich they apnarently attempted to
have nullified as a prerecuisite to the establishment of
conyright relations in 1905).
If the Treaty of 1905 is abrogated, it ceases to pro-
vide a basis for the enjoyment by United States citizens
of copyright nrotection in Japan. If the treaty is not
abrogated, the right to translate and use works protected
in the United States is reserved to the Japanese under
Article II. (The treaty cannot, of course, be abrogated
in pert anc rotained in pert. A new  greenent with Japan
vrich will provide prot ction for translations will there-
fore have to ersit post-treaty negotiations.) It is,
however. the policy of the United States Gover ment that
authors should, as a general rule, have the right to
consent to ard receive compensation for translations of
their wor's, and the United Statos an srer tly intends to
insist upon this pri: ciple in negotiating new ceacetime
coryright relations with the Janenese Government following
the signing of the Treaty of Peace. Accordingly, it is
suitable for SCAP to recogrize this nolicy by making pro-
vision for paying some comrensetion to the owners of the
United

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
United Stetes conyrights when translations of their works
are used to accomplish occupatior ol jectives. This does
not precluce, however, the use by SCaF of translated
naterial without the consent of the owner of the United
States copyright in cases where eycentions are justified
by the inportance of the use of such material to the
accomrlishrent of occunt tion objectives.
4. as I uncerstand Ha's reluctance to accept the
Poo conpromice on the above rroblem, it stems from a belief
that CaP will encounter no cifficulties in dissenination
of Americar woris. In acdition to the obvious dangers
of procecural delays, it should be borne in mine that dollars
are scarce in Janan, thet Urited Stetes publishers may
grow restive as bloc ed yen accounts accumulate and may
press for cayment in dollars, and that this may create
stunbling blocs in the reorientation program, especially
if we deny to SChP sny reserve povers. (It should be
noteu that, inasnuch as the so-called "Plan B" requires
nartial :ay.ent in yen, it does rot conternlate a full
recor: itior of the rivlt of the author to stipulate the
amout t ene  odiu of veyment for t: e use of ris work.
Thus, even "Flan B" coes rot aveid the nroblem of the
recognit:on of authors' rights.)
5.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.97)
-4-
5. Copyrights, like patents and trade-marks, are
special monopoly privileges granted ly the state to authors
in orter to accomplish certain limited purposes which
include the stiulatior of the cre:tion and distribution
of written material.1/ This special protection is an
excentior. to the general theory in Anglo-An erican juris-
rrude: ce thet society vill be lenefited by the free circu-
lation of ideas vithout the restraints end restrictions
vicr vould inevitally be cre: ted if every idea were
treeted as the nersonal rcperty of the one who first ex-
pressec it. Clearly, if I relete to you an anecdote, I
have no right to sue you for infringetent if you repeat
the story. Sinilarly, a la yer vho srranges legal ideas
in the forn of a brief may not thereafter restrain all
other 1  yers from utilizing the came material even if he
las resenieo nen icees in novel fashion. Anc this, I
think, is all to the good.
That
1/ Thus the Constitution contains a srecial rrovision that
"The Congress shall have power:.... To promote the progress
of scierce and useful arts, by securing for limited times
to authors and inventors the exclusive right to their res-
rective writings and discoveries.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.97)
-5-
That a copyright represents only a limited monopoly
privilege is apperent from the limitation of its term.
Unlike most "property rights". conyright--like the right
in a patent--exists for a limited number of years only.
In addition, yn vill not: thet Ui ited States copyright
I:w limits the rights of the author in many other ways.
For examnle, the author of a dranatic or musical work
is not grante the right to prevent its public performance
where thet nerformance is not for profit, nor may he
exact a rovalty for such use. Further, an author receives
no royalty vhen his book is circulatec through a public
library or ever through a rental lilrary (although the
oreretor of the ren tal litrary nay profit fron such use).
For these reasons I find no difficulty in treating copyrights
as a special privilege vrich may in certain circumstances
and for certein linitec urposes be vithheld or withdrawn.
You will unaerstand, of course, that I do not con-
ceive that acor tior of the o proposal in this particular
case is based on accertance of such a philosorhical ar-
prosch. Needless to say, those whe are sympathetic to
the noirt of vien of cut' ors ane  ullishers would find
much to quarrel with in this analvsis. They have in the
cast disnuted the analogy to patents, irsirted that a full
recognition of the euthor's rights or creation was the
orly

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.96)
-6-
only basis upon which internetional arrangements could
be consummated, and telked in terms of the "natural right"
of the author to all the fruits of his insoiration and
labor. The differences betveen the two schools of thought
carnot be nassed over lightly, and I have atter.pted through-
out my tenure on the Folicy Committee or Conyright to find
middle grounds which will rermit the accomplishment of
Jimited objectives vithout embroiling ourselves in
philosonhical disputations. I had hoped that we had
reached such a middle ground on the Jananese copyright
nroblem. In the instant case, I believe that reasons
 to 4 above are quite sufficient to support the PCC
compromise araft.
cc: Tr. culure
Ar. Rudoph
Tne
Kall:
this
has
IR:JPFurman:s1

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
THE STATE-ARMY-NAVY-AIR FORCE COORDINATING COMMITTEE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
fill
SANA-6060
5 May 1948
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
Subject: SANACC 388/1
Forwarded herewith for the information of the Depart-
ment of State is a copy of SANACC 388/1 as approved by the
State-Army-Navy-Air Force Coordinating Committee on 4 May
894.544/5-548
1948.
The Joint Chiefs of Staff have been requested to
forward the conclusions in paragraph 4 thereof to CINCFE
as a statement of United States policy for his guidance.
Copies of this paper have been furnished the Depart-
ments of Army, Navy, Air Force, Justice and the Library
of Congress for information.
For the State-Army-Navy-Air Force Coordinating
Committee:
Charles E. baltyman,
204
CHARLES E. SALTZMAN
Chairman
Enclosure:
Copy No. 67, SANACC 388/1
A/FK
00T=6 1849
DCR
Unit
FILED
THIS DOCUMENT IS DECLASSIFIED)
9t
WHEN ATTACHMENT IS REMOVED,
Cat.
Dipt
SECRET

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.97)
OBJECT OR
FILE NO.
DATE DUE
DATE OF DOC.
DOC. NO.
SECURITY CLASS.
TO/FROM
ENCLOSURES
CHARGE TO
Cuull
OFFICE
SYMBOL
Form DS-933a (9-1-51)
(Signature)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
60587-1
GPO

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.92)
(n)
CHARLES C THOMAS·PUBLISED
ACTION
CABLE:"THOMAS·SPRINGFIELD"
is assigned to
BOOKS, MONOGRAPHS and JOURNALS in
CHARLES C THOMAS
N P THOMAS
CP
MEDICINE, SCIENCE and TECHNOLOGY
PAYNE E L THOMA
DISTRIBUTORS
3O1-327 EAST LAWRENCE AVENUE·SPRINGFIELD·ILLINOIS
OF
June
1948
LOUISVILLE KENTUCKY
1948
ANN ARBOR MICHIGAN
MINNEAPOLIS MINNEBOTA
ST LOUIS. MIBSOURI
Department of State
894.544/6-848
Washington, D. C.
BUFFALO NEW YORK
NEW YORK CITY
Gentlemen:
DURHAM NORTH CAROLINA
CINCINNATI CHIO
CLEVELANO. OHIO
John à Krad  San
WEFor
Will you kindly advise us what should be our procedure,
COLUMBUS OHIO
if any, with the Department of State, if we wish to
PHILADELPHIA PENNSYLVANIA
publish one of our books, HOMICIDE INVESTIGATION by
NASHVILLE TENNEBBEE
LeMoyne Snyder, in Japan in a Japanese translation
DALLAB TEXAS
which would be published by the Maruzen Co., Ltd.,
RICHMOND. VINGINIA
UNIVERSITY VIRQINIA
MADISON WIBCONSIN
Unts Beesstere
which is a leading publisher and distributor of books
HONOLULUTH
BAN JUAN PUERTO RICO
MILWAUKEE.WISCONBIN
Harry W Schoants
Sacretanal Sarne
years prior to World War II, and with whom we desire
and with which house we have had relations for many
BUENOS AIRES ARGENTINA
Joso Barnatoo 1p
Unrvorarty Recaly inc
to reestablish relations.
MELBOURNE AUSTRALIA
BRISGANE AUSTRALIA
Sarbare Brabano Btore
SYONEY AUBTRALIA
In the matter of such a translation, for the Japanese
ANTWERPEN BELGIUM
Graname Bues Compam
rights, a sum of money may or may not be paid for per-
RMO DE JANEIRO. BRAZIL
B B
mission to translate. Is it feasible yet to secure the
BAO PAULO BRAZIL
transmission of money from Japan to the United States?
MONTREAL CANADA
OTTAWA CANADA
TORONTO CANADA
Mc Aunan & Compan,
We understand, of course, that any books brought into
BANTIAGO CHILE
BOGOTA. COLOMBIA
Japan must have the approval of the Supreme Commander,
Librang Hhamato
Ragura Forrere
BAN JOSE COBTA RICA
Allied Powers.
HAVAMA CUBA
COPENMAGEN DENMARK
CAIRO. EGYPT
Emar Munhagear
Armold Buec
In the event that we undertake such a matter, we would
FILED
MEXICO. DF
ONFORD ENGLAND
BOMBAY. INDIA
Popudar Boos Dape!
like it to run smoothly, and shall benefit by your advice
and direction.
AMSTTROAM NETHERLANDS
Muelannon à Co
CHRIST CHURCH CI. NEW ZEALAND
M M Peryer. Lid
Reply drafted E
OBLO NORWAY
HITA PALESTINE
LIMA. PERU
PANAMA REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
DIVIS N OF OCCUPIED AREAS
LGOP OMIC AFFAIRS
Clarlerl roms
Faithfully,
CS/V
LIBBUA. PORTUGAL
JUL61948
CAPETOWN BOUTHAFRICA
BTOCKHOLM. BWEDEN
MONTEVIDEO. URAGUAY
CHARLES C THOMAS
MOSCOW.UBBR
CARACAB VENEZUELA
CCT:bmw

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.91)
JUI 914
In reply refer to
0894.544/6-848
My dear Mr. Thomas:
894.544/6-848
Reference is made to your letter of Jume 8, 194s in whieh yeu is-
quire regarding the pablieation of one of your books in Japan.
Procedures have been established under which certain selested
works may be published in Japen wader regulations estahlisked by the
Supreme Cemmander for the Allied Powers. The Dopartment of the Aray
will be able te advise you regarding the proper presedure to be fel-
lowed in this matter. I am therefore referring your letter to Mr. T. W.
Sispson, Reorientation Rranch, Civil Affairs Division, Departmeat of the
Arxy for appropriate sction. You should hear from him in due course.
Sineerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
S
Robréan
Robert W. Barnett
LO
Acting Chief
V
Division of Occupied Areas
Becnomic Affairs
8
6
54
Mr. Charles C. Thomas, Publisher,
301-327 East Lawrenee Avenne,
Springfield, Illinois.
gng
09m
OF:OJMcDiarmid:el
7/6/48
GH
1911

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.95)
In reply refer to
894.544/6-848
05 894.544/6-848 and
811.916/6-2348
My dear Mr. Simpson:
Pursuant to telephone conversation of June 30 between Mr. Gulick
of your Division and Mr. McDiarmid of the Departrent of State, I a
forwarding herewith two letters from publishers interested in the dis-
semination of their materials in Japan. I am also enclosing copies of
interim replies from this Department to these letters.
Sincerely yours,
Roems a
八
Robert W. Barnett
Acting Chief
Division of Ocoupied Areas
Economic Affairs
CS/V
4 Enclosures:
1. Copy of letter from
Charles C. Thomas -
Publisher dated June 4, 1948.
2.
Copy of reply drafted
July 6, 1948.
3.
Copy of letter from French &
European Publications, Inc.
894, 544/6-848
dated June 23, 1948.
40
Copy of reply drafted July
6, 1948.
A the capy 
Mr. T. W. Simpson,
Reorientation Branch,
Civil Affairs Division,
JUL 9 1948
Department of the Army.
80
01m
OE:OJMcDiarmid:el
7/6/48
1911

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.94)
DC4
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
is assigned to
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 432
Office of the U. S. Political Adviser
acti
for Japan
UNCLASSIFIED
Tokyo, July 12, 1948.
DCR
DECUPIED AREAS
1948
UVIC AFFAIRS
CIVIS
ARTMENT
894.544/7-1248
Subject: Japanese Publishers quisition of Ri hts to Translate and
Publish Foreign Book.
199 JUL 22 P
2
The Honorable
The, Secretary of State,
22
Washington.
5.0
Sir:
I have the honor to transmit, as enclosures 1 and 2, copies of two
1/&2/
press releases of the Civil Information and Education Section of this
Headquarters dated May 19 and June 14, 1948, which concern this Head-
quarterst offer of foreign copyrighted books to Japanese publishers for
ranslation and publication in Japanese.
OE
On May 20, the Civil Information and Education Section opened to
public bidding the translation and publication rights to one hundred
0700
Foreign copyrighted books (list is attached to enclosure No. 1), seventy-
five of which were under American copyright and twenty-five of which were
FE
under British copyright. The bids of Japanese publishers interested in
1R
translating and publishing these works were to be submitted by June 5 to
the Japan Publishers Association, which cooperated with General Head-
L
quarters in administering the auction. The Association also organized a
committee of language experts to review and give assistance with translations.
OLA
C
Accuracy of translation will be required of publishers under their contracts
S
PUS
with copyright proprietors.
Dre
The
The 100 books selected for the initial offering to the Japanese pub-
lishing industry were not intended to be so-called best books or to have
ITP
literary superiority or entertainment value. The criterion used in the
selection was the extent to which they might contribute to fulfillment of
the obligations and needs of the Japanese people under the Pot sdam
Declaration. About three-quarters of the books offered were for general
readers, although it is expected that future listings will contain a
targer number of technical books in such fields as education, preventative
C10—
nedicine, and agriculture.
cord-en
The Civil Information and Education Section acts as the agency for the
conclusion of contracts regarding Japan on behalf of all owners of non-
Japanese copyrights. The owners are permitted to stipulate the minimum
royalties acceptable, but the entire responsibility for the acceptance of
initially
UNCLASS IFIED

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's 432
July 12, 1948
-2-
UNCLASSIFIED
initially offered, three were withdrawn as the bids made for them were
below the minimum set by the owners. Two others were withdrawn at request
of the owners. It was announced that successful bidders would be notified
by June 10 and would be authorized to proceed with their translations while
their contracts were being drawn up.
Until the public offer of the books in question, all books of foreign
origin authorized for publication in Japan had been either:
1。
In the public domain;
2.
Made available by copyright proprietors
wit hout royalty payments;
3.
The subject of prewar contracts; or
4.
Assigned to Japanese publishers by
authors able to enter into personal
contracts by reason of their presence
in Japan.
3/ & 4/. As an example of this latter category there are forwarded, as enclosures
3 and 4, copies of licenses to publish in Japan issued to Mr. Earnest
Hoberecht, United Press correspondent, and Mrs. Elizabeth Gray Vining,
tutor to the Crown Prince. Japanese publishers who brought out foreign
copyrighted books in the period between the surrender and the offering of
the present list, without authorization in one of the above categories,
were barred from bidding on the titles that were made public on May 20.
Under the (revised) terms of Circular 12, General Headquarters,
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, dated Hay 9, 1948, licenses to
sell translation and reproduction rights are issued to national groups of
publishers and copyright owners or to individuals, if no national group
exists. These licenses national groups of publishers may recommend special
books for publication in Japan in translation or original language, if such
works demonstrably further the objectives of the Occupation. The judge of
compliance with this provision is to be the Civil Infonmation and Education
Section. Under this regulation, liccnses have thus far been issued to the
govemments of the United States, the United Kingdom and France and to the
5/,6/,
"All Allied Union International Look" of Moscow. Copies of these licenses
7/,&
are transmitted as enclosures 5, 6, 7, and 8, respectively. All are of the
8/.
same wording.
Authorities of the Civil Infornation and Education Section state that
little interest has been shown by the Office of the Soviet Member, Allied
Council for Japan, in applying for the licensing of books the copyrights
of which are owned in the Soviet Union. Under the terms of Circular No. 12
mentioned above, it is required that applications be accompanied not only
by a copy of the recomnended books in the original language but also by an
English translation. The difficulty of complying with this requirement,
except as regards Russian books already fairly well known in English trans-
lation, may be a deterrent to Soviet applications. Further, the terms of
Circular No. 12 require that, for every book from any one country which does
not contribute positively to furtherin the objectives of the Occupation,
another from the same country must be recommended which is considered to
further the objectives of the Occupation in a positive manner. The degree
to which these conditions are fulfilled is to be judged by General Head-
quarters.
UNCLASSIFIED
The initial

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's 432
July 12, 1948
-3-
UNCLASSIFIED
The initial list of offerings attracted bids for ninety-one of the
100 titles offered. Licenses for the rights to the 22 British-owned books
and 69 American-owned books comprising this number have been granted to 53
Japanese publishers, who propose to brin: out 2,237,000 copies. Publishers,
however, will not be bound under their contracts to bring out the number of
copies or to hold to the sellin prices proposed in their bids. Initial
printings may be relatively small because of stringency of paper, but, if
public demand is sufficient, it is expected that paper will be made available
for additional, larger issues.
The successful bidders offered royalties to the copyright owners ranging
from 5.5 to 36 per cent of the retail prices of the books. The average was
15 per cent. The highest bid was for Ten Years in Japan by Joseph C. Grew.
For the right to publish it in translation the publishing affiliate of the
newspaper Mainichi offered a royalty of 36 per cent, with advance payment of
1,814,400 to be banked for the copyright proprietor. Royalty payments for the
present are not convertible into any currency.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
1. Five copies Press Release, Civil
Information and Educational Section,
GHQ, SCAP, dated May 19, 1948 concern-
ing copyrighted bo∞ks available for
publicat ion in Japan.
2. Five copies Press Release, Civil
Information and Educational Section,
GHQ, SCAP, dat ed June 14, 1948 con-
cerning book translation rights.
3。
Five copies, Directive, GH,SCAP,
dated June 15, 1948 to Earnest Hoberecht.
4. Five copies, Directive, GHQ, SCAP,
dated June 29, 1948 to Mrs. Elizabeth
Gray Vining.
5. Five copies, Directive, GHQ, SCAP,
to The United States of America, c/o
Civil Information and Education Section.
6。
Five copies, Directive, GHQ, SCAP
to His Majesty's Government in the United
Kingdom, dated May 27, 1948.
7. Five copies, Directive, GHQ, SCAP, to The
Republic of France dated June 25, 1948.
8. Five copies, Directive, GHQ,SCAP, to All
Allied Union International Book, 18 Kuznetsky
Most, Moscow, dated May 27, 1948.
Original and ozalid to the Department.
854
JDEdwards:cs
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
432 dated July 12,
GENERAL HE!DQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Civil Information and Education Section
19 May 1948
ADVANCE RELEASE:
NOTE TO EDITORS: The following story
is for release in morning papers of
Thursday, May 20, or thereefter.
SCAP ANNOUNCES INITIAL LIST OF 1OO FOREIGN COPYRIGHTED BOOFS
NOW AVAILABLE FOR PUBLICATION IN JAPAN
Under commercial arrangements just made for the publication in Japanese of
foreign copyrighted books which further Occupation objectives, SCAP's Civil
Information and Education Soction today annouu:cd that an inltial list of 100
titles is being offered immediately to nublishers for competitive bidding.
Lt. Col. D. R. Nugont, USMC, Chief of CIE, seid that the new arrengements
are expected to expand appreciably the number of copyrighted book: of foreign
origin accessible to thc Japanese people in their om languge.
Heretofore, he explained, books of foreign origin authcrized or publication
in Japan since the end of the war have been either in the public domain or such
copyrighted books as have been made avail-ble by copyright proprietors without
royalty payments, were covered by pre-var contraets or have been assigned to
Japanese publishers by authors able to enter into personal contracts beceuse
present in Japan.
Betweon the end of the war and 1 April of this yeir, tho CIE Chief seid,
approximately 1,700 books of foreign orig'n vere published in Japan. This number
included, however, many titles brought out :n more than one odition by separate
publishers and some publishod vithout authorization beforc SCAP required publish-
ers to present evidence of the right to use copyrighted material of foreign
origin.
In addition to translations knowm to heve been placed on sale by 1 April,
authorizetion letters hsve boon issued for a growing number of foreign copy-
righted books which the owmers are alloving to bo translated without royalty
payments.
Among these books, authorized but not yet published, arc Basic History of
the United States, by Charlcs and Mary Beard; The N. ture and Dostiny of Man, by
Reinhold Niebuhr; Presidential Mission and World to Win, by Upton Sinclair; Fair
Play, by Munro Leaf; Religious Liberty: An Inquiry, by M. Searlo Bates; History
of Nursing, by Sellew and Nuesse; Labor in America, by Harold U. Faulkner and
Mark Starr; Freedom of the Pross, by the Commission on Freedom of the Press;
Story of My Life, by Helen Keller, and Rebuilding the World Econory, by Buchanan
and Lutz.
Under the new commerciel arrangements, Lt. Col. Nugent seid, Japanese
publishers will have access to many more coryrighted books. The lo0 on tho
initial list now being offered for competitive bidding range from children's
stories to technical manuals.
They include Ten Yoars in Japan, by Joseph C. Grew, American Ambassador
in Tokyo until tho war; Arnold J. Toynbec's A Study of History, currontly a best-
seller in the English-spea!ing world; Abe Lincoln Grows Up, by Carl Sandburg;
New Adventures in Denocracy, by Ordway Tead; The Chrysanthemum and the Sword,
Ruth Benedict's study of Japanese cheracteristics; Christian Ethics and Modern
Problems, by Dean Inge; The Republic, by Charles Beard; Plastice, by J. H. DuBois.
Public Health Administration, by Wilson George Smillie; When Democracy Builds,
by Frank Lloyd Wright, designer of Tokyo's Imperial Hotel, and Penicillin: Its
Practical Application, by Sir Alexander Fleming.
SCAP's CIE Chief emphasized that the 100 books on the initial list did not
necessarily constitute a balanced list of so-called "best" books. Most of then
were selected by CIE, he said, not for literary superiority or entertainment
value but solely on the basis of what they might contributo to fulfillnent of
the obligetions and needs of the Japanese people under tho Potsdan Declerstion.
over

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.96)
It is prob-blo thot futuro lists vill h ve  1-rgor proportion of tochnioni.
books to provido kno ledgo bout tho ndvrccs n do brond during the pest deonde 
in such ficlds s cduc-tion, industry, prcvertive nodicinc, ccononic thoory,
publio administration, labor-managenont rolotions, and agriculturo.
Tho nunber of books to bo c do avail blo undor thc non cornorcial arrange-
ments vill dopend, the SCAp officer s id, on such factors s tho intorest hich
tho Japanese public shors in then, the bility of the publishing industry to
bring ther out, nd the pper supply.
CIE is acting s tho agency for conclusion of tr nslrtion contracts, Dotrils
hovever, vill be hondlcd in its beh-lf by the Japan Publishers' Associ-tion
under a pl-n designed to cnsuro f irness to both Jap neso publishors nnd foroign
copyright proprietors.
Tho Associ tion is announcing tho terns under hich the tr-nsl-tion rights
are being offered nd tho procedur for  king bids in the next issue of its
official organ, tho Dokusho Shirbun. Copics of. the books ill be availablo ct
its offico for inspection by interested publishers, hether nonbers of tho
Associ~tion or not.
Sc led bids turned in beforo 5 Juno will be delivorcd by th: Associction
to CIE. Successful bidders vill be notified by lo June and given cuthorizction
to proceed vith translation while their contracts re being dro vn up.
For the first timo in Japanose publishing history, accuracy in translstion
will bo required of publishers under their contr-cts with copyright proprietors.
To onsure observation of this requirumont, the Japan Publishers' Associrtion has
organized a connitteo of l ngungo specinlists hich vill reviev nd give
essistance vith translations before they re published.
Royalty pynonts ill bo rado in yen, hich vill ronain on doposit in J-pan
until conversion into foroign currencies b conos possiblo.
Tho Initinl. list of l00 books is tt ched.

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
NITIAL LIST OF 1OO AMERICAN AND BRITISH BOOKS TO BE OFFERED
TO JAPANESE PUBLISHERS FOR COMPETITIVE BIDDING
1. Abe Lincoln Grows Up, by Carl Sandburg
2. American Labor Unions, by Florence Peterson
3. Americans: A Book of Lives, by Hermann Hagedorn
4.
An Almanac for Moderns, by Donald Culross Peattie
5.
Anatomy of Peace, by Emory Reeves
6.
Animal Farm, by George Orwell (British)
7.
Britain's Way to Social Security, by Frances Lafitte (British)
8.
Children's Games from Many Lands, by Nina Millen
9.
Child Welfare Outside the School, by Mitchell Kaye (Brirish)
10.
China, by Harley Farnsworth MacNair, editor
11. Christian Ethics and Modern Problems, by William Ralph Inge (British)
12.
The Chrysanthemum and the Sword, by Ruth Benedict
13. Democracy, by R. C. Alexander and C. P. Goslin
14.
Democratic Education in Practice, by Rose Schneideman
15.
Economic Policy and Full Employment, by Alvin H. Hansen
16.
Economics of Peace, by Kenneth Ewart Boulding
17。
Education in England, by W. Fenneth Richmond (British)
18.
Education Today and Tomorrow, by R. W. Moore (British)
19.
Einstein, His Life and Times, by Philip Frank
20.
Electronics in Industry, by G. M. Chute
21.
The English Heritage, by Maurice W. Thomas (British)
22.
English Locel Government System, by John H. Warren (British)
23.
English Politioal Institutions, by Sir John A. R. Marriott (British)
24。
English Social History, by G. M. Trevelyan (British)
25.
An Essay on Man, by Ernst Cassirer
26.
Essentials of Nursing, by Helen Young and Eleanor Lee
27.
Frequency Modulation, by August Hund
28.
From Economic Theory to Policy, by E. Ronald Walker
29.
Gauging Public Opinion, by Hadley Cantril
30.
Gladstone, by Francis Birrell (British)
31.
Great Teachers, by Houston Peterson, editor
32.
Growth of the Law, by Benjamin N. Cardozo
33.
Handling Personality Adjustment in Industry, by Robert N. Mcurray
34.
Heroes of Civilization, by Joseph Cottler and Haym Jaffe
35.
A History of Local Government, by K. B. Smellie (British)
36.
Home and Family Life, by The British Canncil of Churches
37.
How Britain is Governed, by Ramsey Mu (British) MU|R
38.
How English Law Works, by W. T. Wells (British)
39.
Human Destiny, by Lecomte Du Nouy
40.
Of Human Freedom, by Jacques Barzun
41.
The Humanities and the Common Mian, by Norman Foerster
42.
Human Leadership in Industry, the Challenge of Tomorrow, by Sam A. Lewisohn
43.
Huxley, by E. W. MacBride (British)
44.
Industrial Waste Treatment Practice, by E. F. Eldridge
45.
Introduction 'to the Theory of Relativity, by P. G. Bergmann
46.
Japan, Past and Present, by Edwin Reischauer
47.
Let's Do Better, by Munro Leaf
48. Liberal Education, by Mark Van Doren
49. 'The Long Winter, by L. I. Wilder
50. 'Mankind So Far, by William White Howolls
51. : Meeting of East and West, by Northrup
52. ' Mind in the Making, by James Harvey Robinson
53.  The Miracle of America, by Andre Maurois
54.  Modern Democracy, by Carl L. Becker
55. Modern Education, by T. Raymont (British)
56.  The Moffats; by. Eleanor Estes
57. Mr. Popper's Penguins, by R. T. and Mrs. F. H. C. Atwater
58. Natural Development of the Child, by Agatha H. Bowley (British)
59."New Adventures in Democracy, by Ordway Tead
60. "The Ne- Belief in the Common Man, by Carl J. Friedrich
61."New City Patterns, by S. E. Sanders and A. J. Rabuck
62. The Newspaper, Its Making and Its Meaning, by Members of thc Staff of the
New York Times
63. The Nueremberg Trial and Aggressive War; by Sheldon Glueck
64. Our Civil Liberties, by Osmond K. Fraenkel
65. 'Parliamentary Usage, by Emme'A. Fox
66. Penicillin: Its Practical Application, by Sir Alcxander Fleming (British)
67. Philosophies of Science, by Albert G. Ramsperger
68. The Plans of Men, By Leonard Doob
OVER

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.98)
69. Plastics, by J. H. DuBois
70. Practioni Applications of Donoeracy, by Goorgc 3. do Huszar
71. Prnctical Electricity for Hono Study, by Raoth
72. Profaco to Logic, by- liorris Raphael Cohon
73. Publio Henlth Adninistration,. by Wilson Goorgo Snillic
74. Tho Ropublic, by Charles A. Beard
75. Tho Robe, by Lloyd C. Douglos
76. Scionce for tho Elonontary School Teacher, Craig
77. Sqienco of ian in tho World Crisis, by Ralph Linton, editor
78. Seoing the Invisiblo, by G. G. Howley
79. Selling with Color, by Fabor Birren.
80. Small Communities in Action, by Joan and Jess Ogden
81. Social Problems of an Industrial Civilization, by Eltcn Mayo
82. Spirit of the Common Law, by Roscoo Pound
83.
A Study of History, by Arnold J. Toynbee (British)
84.
Systematic Politics, by Charles Edvard Merriem
85.
Techniqucs and Guidance, by Arthur Edvin Traxlor
86.
Ten Years in Japan, by Josoph C. Grew
87.
Theology and Sanity, by Frank J. Shood (British)
.88.
This is the World, by Josephone van DoIzon Pease
89.
TVA: Democracy on the March, by David E. Lilienthal
90.
On Understanding Science, by Jamcs Bryant Conant
91.
Walt Whitman, An Amcrican, by Honry S. Canby
92.
What Hakos the Whecls Go Round, by Edwnrd G. Huey
93.
What Man Can Make of Hen, by William Earnest Hocking
94.
When Democracy Builds, by Frnnk Lloyd Jright
95.
Wilberforce, by Roginald Coupland (British)
96.
Willian Morris, by l'ontague Weokly (British)
97.
Women at Work, by Mary Agnos Hamilton (British)
98.
World Labour Comes of Agc, by Betty Wallacc (British)
99.
The World of Industry, by A. P. Young
100.
Writing History, by Shernan Kent

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
Mmclosure No. 2 to' Despatch No. 432 dated July 12, 1948 from the Orfiee 
of Rights to Translate and Publish Forsign Booke".
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLTED POWERS
Civil Information and Education Section
PRESS RELEASE: (For use in morning papers of 15 June)
14 June 1948
FIFTY-THREE JAPANESE PUBLISHERS AWARDED BOOK TRANSLATION RIGHTS
Fifty-three Japanese publishers are being awarded commercial translation
rights for 91 American and British books, of which they propose to bring out
2,237,O00 copies, SCAP's Civil Information and Education Section announced today.
In giving the results of the competitive bidding for the first foreign copy-
righted books to be made available in Japan since the war for translation under
commercial contracts, CIE reported that for the rights the highest bidders offered'
to pay the copyright owners royalties ranging from 5.5 to 36 percent of the retail
prices of the books. The average for all royalties was 15 percent.
Many successful bidders offered to pay part of the royalties in advance of
publication. Such offers totaled ¥6,973,709.
The highest bid was for Ten Years in Japan, by Joseph C. Grew, United States
Ambassador in Tokyo until the war. For the right to publish it in translation,
the publishing affiliate of the newspaper Mainichi offered a royalty of 36 percent,
against which an advance payment of ¥1,814,400 is to be banked for the copyright
proprietor. The publisher proposes to print 140,000 copies, retailing at ¥180.
The book receiving the highest number of bids, 46, was hnimal Farm, a brief
satire by the British author George Orwell. It went to the Osaka Kyoiku Tosho
Company for a royalty of 20 percent, with advance payment of ¥100,000. The com-
pany is hopeful of selling 100,000 copies at ¥40.
Bids totaling 1,O12 were submitted for all but four of the 100 books offered
to the publishers by CIE on 20 May. Bids had to be discarded for two books which
had been withdrawn from the bidding in accordance with the wishes of the owners.
For three other books, the bids were invalid, being below the minimums set by the
owners.
Among the titles most sought after by publishers were:
Abe Lincoln Grows Up, by Carl Sondburg, which went to the Sakuhin Shuppan Sha,
Kyoto, for a royalty of 22 percent, vith advance payment of ¥60,000. It is pro-
posed to publish 50,000 copies at 150.
A Study in History, by Arnold J. Toynbee, taken by the Shakai Shiso Kenkyukai
Shuppanbu, Toky, for a royalty of 25.2 percent, with advance payment of 18,500.
The proposed number of copies is 30,000, selling at ¥700.
Science for the Elementary School Teacher, by Gerald S. Craig, taken by the
Jiji Press, Tokyo, for a royalty of 16 percent, with ¥1,120,000 as advance payment.
It is proposed to publish 50,000 copies selling at ¥700.
The Miracle of America, by Andre Maurois, taken by the Kindai Bunka Sha, Tokyo:
for a royalty of 25 percent, with ¥50,000 as advance payment. It is proposed to
publish 120,000 copies at ¥400.
The Long Winter, a story for children, by L. I. Wilder, taken by the Cosmo-
politan Publishing Company, Tokyo, for a royalty of 20 percent, with 300,000 as
advance payment. It is proposed to publish 40,000 copies at ¥75.
The Chrysanthemum and the Sword, a study in Japanese character traits, by
Ruth Benedict, taken by the Shakai Shiso Kenkyukai Shuppanbu, Tokyo, for a royalty
of 23.2 percent, with 10,000 as advance payment. It is proposed to publish 20,000
copies at ¥200.
Lt. Col. D. R. Nugent, USMC, Chief of CIE, commenting on the results of the
bidding, said that the publishers will not be bound under their contracts with the
copyright proprietors to bring out the numbers of copies or to hold to the selling
prices proposed in their bids. In most cases, paper allocation regulations will
necessitate relatively small initial printings, but it is believed that evidence of
public demand will make paper available for larger additional printings.
Continued on pago 6

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.98)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Civil Information and Education Section
SUCCESSFUL BIDDERS FOR TRANSLATION RIGHTS
BOOKS OFFERED IN COMPET ITIVE BIDDING 5 JUNE 1948
ABE·LINCOLN.GROWS UP, by Carl Sandburg
Sakuhin Shuppan Sha - Kyoto; 22% straight; ¥60,000 'advance; 50,000 copies @ 150
AMERICAN LABOR .UNIONS, by Florence Peterson
Sobisyobo - Kyoto; 20% straight; ¥40,000 advance; 10,000 copies @ ¥100
AMERICANS: A BOOK OF LIVES, by Hermann Hagedorn
Osaka Kyoiku Tosho Co. - Osaka; 20% straight; ¥100,000 advance; 100,000 copies
.④ ¥150
AN ALMANAC FOR MODERNS, by Donald Culross Peattie
Sanmeisha Co., Ltd. - Osaka; 15% straight; ¥60,000 advance; 10,000 copies @ 120
ANIMAL FARM, by George Orwell (British)
Osaka Kyoiku Tosho Co. - Osaka; 20% straight; ¥100,000 advance: 100,000 copies
© ¥40
BRITAIN'S WAY TO SOCIAL SECURITY, by Frences Lafitte (British)
Kogaku Sha - Tokyo; 13% first 2,000 and 15% thereafter; ¥95,900 on publication;
7,000copies ¥180
CHILDREN'S GAMES FROM MANY LANDS, by Nina Millen
Chiyoda Publishing Co. - Osaka; 23% straight; ¥60,000 advance; 25,000 copies
○ ¥80
CHILD WELFARE OUTSIDE THE SCHOOL, by Mitchell Kaye (British)
Boonjudo Shuppan Kabushiki Yaisha - Tokyo; 7.3% first 10,000 and 10.3% there-
after; ¥5,000 advance; 30,000 copies @ ¥220
CHINA, by Harley Farnsworth MacNair, editor
Sanmeisha Co. Ltd. - Osaka; 15% straight; ¥75,000 advance; 10,000 copies © ¥150
CHRISTIAN ETHICS AND MODERN PROBLEMS, by William Ralph Inge (British)
Tomisyoten - Kyoto; 10% first 10,000 and 15% thereafter; ¥80,000 advance;
20,000 copies  ¥60
THE CHRYSANTHEMUM AND THE SWORD, by Ruth Benedict
Shakaishiso Kenkyukai Shuppanbu - Tokyo; 23.2% straight; ¥10,800 advance;
20,000 copies © ¥300
DEMOCRACY, by R. C. Alexander and O. P. Goslin
Eiko Sha - Tokyo; 20% straight; ¥240,000 advance; 30,000 copies © ¥40
DEMOCRATIC EDUCATION IN PRACTICE, by Rose Schneideman
Chiyoda Publishing Co. - Osaka; 23% straight; ¥60,000 advance; 25,000 copies
@ ¥230
ECCNOMIC POLICY AND FULL ENPLOYMENT, by Alvin H. Hansen
Kogaku Sha - Tokyo; 20% first 5,000 and 22% thereafter; no advance; 15,000
copiès @ ¥220
ECONOMICS OF PEACE, by Kenneth Ewart Boulding
Kogaku Sha - Tokyo; 18% first 5,000 and 20% thereafter; no advance (50% on
publication); 17,000 copies @ ¥150
EDUCATION IN ENGLAND; by I. Kenneth Richmond (British)
Eigen Sha - Tokyo; 11% straight; ¥10,000 advance; 5,000 copies @ ¥90
EDUCATION TODAY AND TOMORROWI, by R. W. Moore (British)
Jizai Shobo - Tokyo; 12% straight; ¥20,000 advance; 5,000 copies € ¥120
EINSTEIN, HIS LIFE AND TIMES, by Philip Frank
Akademeia Press - Tokyo; 16.2% first 10,000 and 17% thereafter; 10,000 advance
20,000 capies @ ¥85
2

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.98)
ELECTRONICS IN INDUSTRY, by G. M. Chute
Corona Publishing Co., Ltd. - Tokyo; 15% first 4,000 and 17% thereafter: 20,000
advance; 8,000 copies @ ž400
THE ENGLISH HERITAGE, by Maurice W. Thomas (British)
Shingotsu Sha - Tokyo; 7% first 5,000 and 10% thereafter; ¥10,000 advance;
12,000 cop1es @ ¥420
ENGLISH LOCAL GOVERNMENT SYSTEM, by John H. Warren (British)
Osaka Commercial University - Osaka; 16% straight; ¥40,000 advance; 30,000
copies @ ¥63
ENGLISH SOCIAL HISTORY, by G. M. Trevelyan (British)
Kokuritsu Shoin - Tokyo; 11.3% straight; ¥5,000 advance; 15,000 copies @ ¥350
AN ESSAY ON MAN, by Ernst Cassirer
Sekai Bungaku Sha - Tokyo; 16% first 10,000 and 20% thereafter; ¥70,000 advance
20,000 copies @ ¥500
ESSENTIALS OF NURSING, by Helen Young and Eleanor Lee
Minpon Sha - Ueda City; 9.5% first 9,000 and 11% thereafter; ¥10,000 advance;
5,000 copies @ ¥370
FREQUENCY MODULATION, by August Hund
Corona Publishing Co., Ltd. - Tokyo; 17% first 4,000 and 18% thereafter; ¥20,000
advance; 8,000 copies @ ¥350
FROM ECONOMIC THEORY TO POLICY, by E. Ronald Walker
Chiyoda Publishing Co. - Osaka; 23% straight; ¥60,000 advance; 25,000 copies
@ ¥115
GLADSTONE, by Francis Birrell (British)
Ginsei Kaku - Tokyo; 12.2% straight; ¥5,000 advance; 30,000 copies © ¥100
GREAT TEACHERS, by Houston Peterson, editor
Sogen Sha - Tokyo; 12% straight; ¥20,000 advance; 20,000 copies @ ¥60
GROWTH OF THE LAW, by Benjamin N. Cardozo
Dai Ichi Shuppan Kabushiki Kaisha - Tokyo; 13% straight; ¥71,500 advance; 5,500
copies@¥100
HANDLING PERSONALITY ADJUSTMENT IN INDUSTRY, by Robert N. McMurray
Tokyo Translation Committee; 12% straight; ¥20,000 advance; 10,000 copies © Y200
HEROES OF CIVILIZATION, by Joseph Cottler and Haym Jaffe
Chiyoda Publishing Co. - Osaka; 23% straight; ¥60,000 advance; 25,000 copies
@ ¥155
HOME AND FAMILY LIFE, by The British Council of Churches
Seki Shoin, Lim - Kyoto; 12% straight; ¥50,000 advance; 20,000 copies © ¥300
HOW BRITAIN IS GOVERNED, by Ramsey Muir (British)
Eigen Sha - Tckyo; 11% straight; ¥10,000 advance; 5,000 copies @ ¥30
HOV ENGLISH LA7 "VORKS, by W. T. Wells (British)
Dai Ichi Shuppan Kabushiki Kaisha - Tokyo; 13% straight; ¥57,200 advance;
5,500 copies @ ¥80
HUMAN DESTINY, by Lecomte Du Nouy
Sekai 3ungaku Sha - Kyoto; 16% first 10,000 and 20% thereafter; ¥50,000 advance;
20,000 copies.© ¥280
OF HUMAN FREEDOM, by Jacques Barzun
Koshi Shobo - Tokyo; 15% straight; ¥10,000 advance; 20,000 copies @ ¥150
THE HUMANITIES AND THE COMMON MAN, by Norman Foerster
Tomisyoten - Kyoto; 10% first 10,000 and 15% thereafter; ¥20,000 advance;
20,000 copies © ¥40
HUMAN LEADERSHIP IN INDUSTRY, THE CHALLENGE OF TOMORROW, by Sam A. Lewisohn
Kogaku Sha - Tokyo; 15% first 5,000 and 18% thereafter; no advance royalty;
10,000 copies @ ¥80
-3

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.98)
HUXLEY, by E. W. MacBride (British)
Heibon Sha - Tokyo; 12% straight; ¥50,000 advance; 10,000 copies © 160
INDUSTRIAL WASTE TREATMENT PRACTICE, by E. F. Eldridge
Corona Publishing Co. - Tokyo; 10% first 4,000 and 12% thereafter; 8,000 copies
@¥350; 10,000 advance.
INTRODUCTION TO THE THEORY OF RELATIVITY, by P. G. Bergmann
San Ichi Shobo - Kyoto; 16% straight; ¥10,000 advance, 30,000 copies © ¥250
JAPAN, PAST AND PRESENT, by Edwin Reischauer
Jiron Sha - Kyoto; 18% straight; ¥30,000 advance; 10,000 copies @ ¥150
LET 'S DO BETTER, by Munro Leaf
Sogei Sha - Mogawa; 21% straight; -18,900 advance; 30,000 copies @ ¥60
LIBERAI. EDUCATION, by Mark Van Doren
Sakuhin Shuppan Sha - Kyoto; 16% straight; ¥30,000 advance; 20,000 copies @ ¥70
THE LONG WINTER, by L. I. Wilder
Cosmopolitan Sha - Tokyo; 20% straight; ¥300,000 advance; 40,000 copies @ ¥75
MANKIND SO FAR, by William Vhito Howells
Sogen Sha - Tokyo; 12% straight; ¥20,000 advance; 20,000 eopies © ¥220
MEETING OF EAST AND WEST, by Northrup
Jiron Sha - Kyoto; 18% straight; ¥30,000 advance; 10,000 copies @ ¥300
MIND IN THE MAKING, by James Harvey Robinson
Jizai Shobo - Tokyo; 15% straight; ¥20,000 advance; 5,000 copies ©120
THE MIRACLE OF AMERICA, by Andre Maurois
Kindai Bunka Sha - Tokyo; 25% straight; ¥50,000 advance; 120,000 copies @ ¥400
MODERN DEMOCRACY, by Carl L. Becker
Shakaishiso Kenkyukai Shuppanbu - Toky); 20.2% straight; ¥10,500 advance; 20,000
copies © ¥100
MODERN EDUCATION, by T. Raymont (British)
Meirin Kaku - Tokyo; 8% first 3,000 and 10% thereafter; ¥20,000 advance; 15,000
@ Y20
THE MOFFATS, by Eleanor Estes
Takasu Shobo - Toyohasi; 20% straight; ¥50,000 advance; 10,000 copies @¥170
MR. POPPER'S PENGUINS, by R. T. and Mrs. F. H. C. Atwater
Atago Shobo - Tokyo; 20.5% straight; ¥15,000 advance; 30,000 copies © ¥100
NATURAL DEVELOPMENT OF THE CHILD, by Agatha H. Bovley (British)
Osak Kyoiku Tosho Co. - Osaka; 20% straight; ¥100,000 advanco; 100,000 copies
© ¥100
NEW ADVENTURES IN DEMOCRACY, by Ordway Tead
Heibon Sha - Tokyo; 10% first 10,000 and 12% thereafter; ¥80,000 advance;
15,000 copies © ¥300
NEW BELIEF IN THE COMMOND LAN, by Car1 J. Friodrich
Oizumi Shoten - Tokyo; 6% first 5,000 and 10% thereafter; ¥50,000 advance;
20,000 copies © ¥135
NEW CITY PATTERNS, by S. E. Sanders and A. J. Rabuck
Technical Data Publishing Co. Ltd. - Tokyo; 5.5% first 10,000 copies and 10%
thereafter; 5,000 copies @ ¥400
THE NEWSPAPER, ITS MAKING AND ITS MEANING, by Members of the Staff of the New York
Times
Toppan Co., Ltd. - Tokyo; 11% first 4,000 and 13% thereafter; ¥26,400 advance;
20,000 copies © ¥120
OUR CIVIL LIBERTIES, by Osmond F. Fraenkel
Shakaishiso Kenkyukai  Tokyo; 15.8% stra1ght; 10,500 advance; 10,000 conies
¥250
PARLIAMENTARY USAGE, by mma A. Fox
Kamakura Shobo - Tokyo; 10% first 10,000 copies and 14 thereafter; ¥20,000 ad-
vance; 20;000 copies @ ¥80
OVER
-4-

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.97)
PENICILLIN: ITS PRACTICAL APPLICATION, by Sir Alexander Fleming (British)
Akademeia Press - Tokyo; 16.2% first 8,000 and 17% thereafter, 10,000 advanoe 
20,000 copies @ ¥200
PHILOSOPHIES OF SCIENCE, by Albert G. Ramsperger
Dai Ichi Shuppan Kabushiki Kaisha - Tokyo; 12% streight; ¥39,600 advance; 5,500
copies @ ¥330
THE PLANS OF MEN, by Leonard Doob
Hata Shoten - Tokyo; 6% 1st 10,000 and 10% thorcafter: ¥5,000 advance; 20,000
copies @ ¥160
PLASTICS, by J. H. DuBois
Kowdowkwan Co., Ltd. - Tokyo; 15.5% straight; no advance; 7,000 copies @ ¥250
PRACTICAL APPLICATIO'S OF DEMOCRACY, by George B. de Huszar
Shichisei Sha - Tokyo; 12% straight; ¥8,000 advance; 7,000 copies © ¥80
PRACTICAL ELECTRICY FOR HOME STUDY, by Raeth
Kobun Sya, Ltd. - Osaka; 17% straight; ¥70,000 advance; 20,000 copies @ ¥130
PREFACE TO J.OGIC, by Morris Raphael Cohen
Senku Sha - Tokyo; 10% straight; ¥30,000 advance; 10,000 copies © ¥120
PUBLIC HEALTH ADIINISTRATION, by Vilson George Smillie
Dai Ichi Shuppan Kabushiki Kaisha - Tokyo; 11% straight; 199,650 advance;
5,500 copies @ ¥600
THE REPUBLIC, by Charles A. Beard
Shakaishiso Kenkyukai - Tokyo; 25.2% straight; ¥10,500 advance; 30,000 copies
@¥400
THE ROBE, by Lloyd C. Douglas
Cosmopolitan Sha - Tokyo; 22% straight; ¥412,500 advance; 50,000 copies @ ¥75
SCIENCE FOR THE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL TEACHER, by Craig
Jiji Press - Tokyo; 16% first 10,000 and 16% thereafter; ¥1,120,000 advance;
50,000 conies @ ¥700
SEEING THE INVISIBLE, by G. G. Havley
Sogen Sha - Tokyo; 13% straight; ¥20,000 advance; 10.,000 copies © ¥100
SELLIIG WITH COLOR, by Faber Birren
Daimaru Publishing Co. - Osaka 11% straight; ¥40,000 advence; 20,000 copies
© ¥120
SOC IAL PROBLEMS OF AN INDUSTRIAL CIVILIZATION, by Elton Mayo
Osaka Commercial University - Oseka; 13% straight; ¥30,000 advance; 30,000 copies
@ ¥52
SPIRIT OF THE COMMON LAW, by Roscoe Pound
Kindei Shiso Sha - Tokyo; 13% straight; no advance; 6,000 copies © ¥150
A STUDY OF HISTORY, by Arnold J. Toynbee (British)
Shakaishiso Kenkyukai - Tokyo; 25.2% straight; ¥18,500 advance; 30,000 copies
@ ¥700
SYSTEMATIC POLITICS, by CharleS Edward Herriem
Kamakura Bunko K.k. - Tokyo; 12% straight; ¥132,000 advance; 10,000 copies © ¥220
TECHNIQUES AND GUIDANCE, by Arthur Edwin Traxler
Dogaku Sha - Tokyo; 125 first 10,000 and 15% thereafter; no advance; 30,000
copies : ¥250
TEN YEARS IN JAPAN, by Joseph C. Grew
Mainich1 Shimbun Sha - Tokyo; 36% straight; ¥1,814,400 advance; 140,000 copies
@ ¥180
THEOLOGY AND SANITY, by Frank J. Sheed (British)
Feisei Sha Shoten - Tokyo; 8.1% first 10,000 and 10.2% thereafter; ¥85,050 ad-
vance; 10,000 copies @ ¥350
OVER
-5-

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.97)
THEOLOGY AND SANITY, by Frank J. Shood British)
Keisei Sha Shoten - Tokyo; 8.1% first 10,000 and 10.2% thereafter; ¥85,050 ad-
vance; 10,000 copies @ ¥350
TVA: Democracy on the March, by David E. Lilienthal
Iwanami Shoten - Tokyo; 11.1% straight; 11l,000 advanco; 15,000 copies @ 200
ON UNDERSTADING SCIENCE, by James Bryant Conant
Osaka Kyoiku Tosho Co, - Osaka; 20% straight; ¥100,000 advance; 100,000 coptes
© ¥60
WALT WHITMAN, AN AMERICAN, by Henry S. Canby
Sakuhin Shuppan Sha - Kyoto; 16% straight; ¥30,000 advance; 10,000 copies @ 230
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS GO ROUND, by Edward G. Huey
Atago Shobo - Tokyo; 22% straight; ¥15,000 advance; 35,000 copies. @ ¥170
WHAT MAN CAN MAKE OF MAN, by Villiam Earnest Hocking
Hanawa Shobo - Tokyo; 15.1% strnight; ¥30,000 advance; 15,000 copies © ¥20
WHEN DEMOCRACY BUILDS, by Frank Lloyd Wright; Eiko Sha - Tokyo; 20% straight;
¥160,000 advance; 20,000 copies © ¥80
WILLIAM MORRIS, by Montague Weekly (British)
Koshi Shobo - Tokyo; 10% straight; no advence; 10,000 copies @ ¥150
WOMEN AT WORK, by Mary Agnos Hamilton (British)
Sobi Shobo - Kyoto; 20% straight; ¥40,000 advance; 20,000 volumes @ ¥50
VORLD LABOUR COMES OF AGE, by Betty nllace (British)
Sobi Shobo - Kyoto; 20% straight; ¥20,000 advance; 10,000 conies © ¥40 ·
THE WORLD OF INDUSTRY, by A. P. Young
Shiryosha Publishing Co., Ltd. - Tokyo; 5.6% first 1,000 and 10% there fter;
no advanco; 100,000 copies @ ¥150
WRITING HISTORY, by Shorman Kent
Kensetsu Sha - Tokyo; 13% first 10,000; ¥50,000 advance; 10,000 copies © ¥70
**水*水**
(Cont. from 1st Page)
The retail prices intended by publishers range from ¥20 to ¥700, with the
average about ¥2o0. When it is considered that expectation of higher production
costs in the next six months entered into the price estimates, Lt. Col. Nugent
said, the ¥200 average does not seem excessive.
He believed it worthy of note that more than half of the successful bidders
were publishing firms established since the war and that many of them were in
Osaka, Kyoto and other cities instead of Tokyo, long the publishing capital of
Japan,
As the number of bids submitted is taken as evidence that publishers desire
translation rights, he said, a second list of recommended books will be offered
shortly.
He expressed appreciation of the assistance given by the Japan Publishers'
Association in publicizing the initial list, explaining bidding procedures and
collecting the bids. The Association will continue to assist CIE in the project
by arranging for the signing of contracts, reviewing translations for adequacy,
and reporting fulfillment of contractual obligations.
***********
-6-

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 432 dated July 12, 1948 from tho Offiee o
.Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, entitled "Japanese Publishers Aoquisitio
Rights to Tranalate and Publish Foreign Books".
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
L
r
APO 500
AG 095(15 Jun 48)ESS/FIN
15 June 1948
SUBJECT: License to Engage in Business in Japan (FI-83)
TO:
Earnest Hoberecht, c/o P.I.O., GHQ, SCAP, Tokyo, Japan
1. Reference is request from Earnest Hoberecht to General Head-
quarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, for a license to
engage in business in Japan.
2. The Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers hereby grants to
Earnest Hoberecht, Tokyo, Japan, hereinafter referred to as "licensee",
a license to publish in Japan a Japanese edition of licensee's manu-
script, "Democratic Etiquette", and to conduct all business necessary
and incidental thereto, subject to the following terms, conditions and
limitations:
a. Licensee is authorized to contract with Radio Shimbun Sha
for the publication and sale in Japan of said book. Contracts entered
into between licensee and Radio Shimbun shall be subject to approval
by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
b. Licensee shall be subject to all rules and regulations now
existing or hereafter is-ued by or for the Supreme Commender for the
Allied Powers. The licensee shall be subject to laws and taxes of Japan
to the extent that they are now or hereafter may be made applicable by
rules and regulations issued by or for the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers.
c. All contracts entered into by the licensee for the publi-
cation and sale of said book in Japan shall be expressed in, and all
payments made thereunder or pursuant thereto shall be made in Japanese
yen.
d. All Japanese yen received by licensee from the publication
and sale of said book in Japan shall:
(1) Be used by licensee for expenditure only in the
acquisition of such goods and services in Japan as
are clearly essential to his authorized operations
in Japan.
(2)
Not be used for investment of any kind, including the
acquisition of any interest in business enterprises.

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
BASIC: Ltr, GHQ, SCAP, AG 095(15 Jun 48)ESS/FIN, 15 June 1948,
subj: License to Engage in Business in Japan (FI-83)
(3) Not be converted into foreign exchange for an
indefinite period, and shall be accepted by the
licensee entirely at its own risk without guarantee
as to value when conversion into foreign exchange
becomes permissible. The licensee will not press
for conversion in advance of restoration of normal
foreign exchange transactions:
(4)
Not be transferred except in payment of authorized
obligations to any person, firm, agency or organi-
zation for expenditure in Japan.
e. Except as otherwise authorized by the Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers, licensae will not engare in any business or conduct
any operations in Japan not nocessary and incidental to the purposes
for which this license is ranted.
f. Contracts involving Japanese goods and services declared
critical to the Japanese conomy by the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers shall not be entered into by licensee except with the express
approval of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
: 3. Licensee, at.all times, will mai"tain complete and accurate
records of the business engaged in pursuant to this license and such
records shall be readily accessible and subject to inspection and audit
by duly authorized renresentatives of the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers.
4. No liability shall attach to the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers, his agents or representatives, or to any agency or sub-
agency of General Headquartors, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
as a. result of the conduct of the business her by licensed. Licensee
will indemnify and hold harmless the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers, his agents and renresentatives, or any agency or sub-agency of
General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, from
claims of any nature arising from or in any way connected with the
operations engaged in by licensee under this license.
5. The license hereby granted is non-transferable and is subject
to amendment or revocation with or without prior notice to licensee by
the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, whenever in his judgment
the interests of the occupation or military necessity require such
action, or when in his judgment the terms of this license or any
applicable law or regulation have been violated by licensee and such
violation necessitates amendment or revocation.
2

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.95)
BASIC: Ltr, GHC, SCAF, AG 095(15 Jun 48)ESS/FI, 15 June 1948,
subj: License to Engage in Business in Japan (FI-83)
6.'In order to implement the provisions of this license, direct
communication between license: and interested staff sections of General
Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, is hereby
authorized.
FOR THE SUPREME COMMANDER:
agstehe
 REHE
Major, AGD
Asst Acj Gen
3 .

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 4 to Despatch No. 432 dated July 12, 1946 from the Office of the
Politiced Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, entitled "Japanese Publishers Acquisition of
Rights to Translate and Publish Foreign Books".
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
AG 095(20 May 48)ESS/FIN
29 June 1948
SUBJECT: License to Engage in Business in Japan (FI-94)
TO:
Mrs. Elizabeth Gray Vining, c/o CIE, GHQ, SCaP, Tokyo, Japan
1. Reference is request from Mrs. Elizabeth Gray Vining to General
Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers for a license to
ongege in businoss in Japan.
2. The Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers hereby grants to
Mrs. Elizabeth Gray Vining, Tckyc, Japan, hereinafter referred to as
"licensee", a license to publish in Japen a Japanese edition of one of
licensee's books, "Adam of the Road", and to conduct all businees neces-
sary and incidental thereto, subject to the following terms, conditions and
limitations:
a. Licensee is authorized to contract with Toppan Publishing
Company for the publication and sale in Japan of said book. Contracts entered
into between licensee and Toppan Publishing Company shall be subject to
approval by the Supreme Commander for the llied Powers.
b. Licensee shall be subject to all rules and regulations now
existing or hereafter issued by or for the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers. The licensee shall be subject to laws and taxes of Japan
to the extent that they are now or hereafter may be made applicable by
rules and regulations issted by or for the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers.
c. all contraiis entered into by the licensee for the publication
and sale of said book in apan shall be expressed in, and all payments made
thereunder or pursuant thereto shall be made in Japanese yen.
d. All Javanese yen received by licensee from the publication
and sale of said book in Japan shall:
(1) Be us?: by licensee only in the acquisition of such
goods and services in Japen as are clearly essential
to he: authorized operations in Jepan.
(2) Not be used for investment of any kind, including the
acquisition of any interest in business enterprises.
(3)
Not be converted into foreign exchange for an indifinite
period, and shall be accepted by the licensee entirely
at her own risk without guarantee as to value when
conversion into foreign exchange becomes permissible.
The licensee will not press for conversion in advance of
restoration of normal foreign exchange transactions.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.98)
BASIC: Ltr. GHQ, SCAP, AG 095(20 May 48)ESS/FIN, dated 29 June 1948
subject: License to Engage in Business in Japan (FI-94)
(4) Not be transferred except in payment of authorized
obligations to any person, firm, agency or organisation
for expenditure in Japan.
e. Except as otherwise authorized by the Supreme Commander for
the allied Powers, licensee will not engage in any business or conduct any
operations in Japan not necessary and incidental to the purpose for which
this license is granted.
f. Contracts involving Japanese goods and services declared
critical to the Japanese economy by the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers shail not be entered into by licensee except with the express ap
proval of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
3. Licensee, at all times, will maintain complete and accurate records
of the bueiness engaged in pursuent to this license end such records shall
be readily accessible and subject to inspection and audit by duly authorized
representatives of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
4. No liability shal! attach to the Supreme Commander for the allied
Powers, his agents or reprecentatives, or to any agency or sub-agency of
General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, as a result of
the conduct of tne business hereby licensed. Licensee will indemnify and
hold harmless. the Suprene Commander for the Allied Powers, his egents and
representatives, or any agency or sub-agency of General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers, from claims of any nature arieing from or
in any vay connected wiii :he operations engaged in by licensee under this
license.
5. The license hereby granted is non-transferable and is subject to
amendment or revocation with or without prior notice to licensee by the
Supreme Jommender for the ilied Powers, whenever in his judgment the
julerests of the occupaiion or military necessity require such action, or
when in his judement the terrs of this license or any applicable law or
regulation have been viujated by licensee and such violation necessitates
amendment or revocation.
6. In order to igniement the provisions of this license, direct com-
munication between licenr ee and interested staff Fections of General Head-
quarters, Supreme Comnender for the Allied Powers, is hereby authorized.
FOR THE SUPREME CCMYANDER:
agTche
REHE
(Major, AGD
2
Asst Adj Gen

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 5 to Despatch No. 432 dated July 12, 1948 from the Offig
U.S.Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, entitled "Japanese Publishera Ac
tion of Rights to Translate and Publish Foreign Books".
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
AG 000.76(27 May 48)ESS/FIN
27May 1948
SUBJECT: License to Engage in Business in Japan (FI-23)
TO:
The United States of America, c/o Civil Information and
Education Section, General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers
1. Reference is check sheet from the Civil Information and Edu-
cation Section, General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers, dated 7 July 1947, subject: Translation Rights License, which
requests the issuance of a license to the United States of America to
engage in the assignment of translation rights of American books to
Japanese publishers.
2. Th Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers hereby grants to
tho United States of America, hereinafter referred to as licensec, a
license to sell rights to translate and publish United States copy-
righted books to Japanese publishers, and to contract in Japan respeot-
ing the sale of such rights and to conduct through the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers all business necessary and incidental thereto sub-
ject to the following terms, conditions and limitations:
a. Licenser shall bc subject to all rules and regulations now
existing or hereafter issued by or for the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers. Further, licenser shall be subject to the laws and
taxes of Japan to the extent that they are new or hereafter may be made
applicable by rules and regulntions issued by or for the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers. The attention of the licensee is directed parti-
cularly to Circular No.12 General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers, dated 9 May 1948, subject: Admission of Foreign
Magazines, Books, Motion Pictures, News end Photograph Services, et cetera,
and their Dissemination in Japan. The sale to Japanesc publishers of
rights to translate, publish and scll United States copyrighted books
in Japan will be concluded through the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers in accordance with said circular.
b. Licensee is authorizcd to contract in Japan, through tho
Supreme Comnander for the Allied Powers, insofar as necessary to the con-
duct of the business for which this licensc is granted, with individuals,
agencies, firns, partnerships, 'companies and corporations, whether or not
of Japanese nationality, for the sale of rights te translate, publish and
sell United States copyrighted books in Japan.
c. Contracts, the performance of which may take place, in whole
or in part, in any country other than Japan, shall not be entered into
by the licensee with any person, firm, or agency in Japan, except with
the express approval of the Supreme Comnander for the Allied Powers.

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.98)
BASIC: Ltr, GHQ. SCAP, aG 000.76(27 May 48)ESS/FIN, Aated 27 May 1948,
subj: License to Engage in Business in Japnn (FI-23)
. Contracts involving Japanese goods and services decinred
critical to the Japancse economy by the Supreme Commender for the Allied
Powers shall not be entered into by licensee except with the cxpress
approval of the Supreme Comnander for the Allied. Powers.
e. All contracts entered into by the licensee. the. performance
of which will take'place in Japan, shall be expressed in and all payments.
made thercunder or pursuant thereto srall'be made in Japanese yen.
f. Excrpt as herein or as otherwise öuthorized by the Suprene
Commander for the Allied Powers, all Japnnese yen received by the licen-
sco fron thc sale of rights to translate, publish nnd sell United. States
copyrighted books in·Japnn shall:
(1) Be used by the licenser for expenditure only in the
acquisition of such goods and services in Japan as
are clearly essentinl to its authorized opcrations in.
Japan;
(2) Not be used for frvestment of any kind, including the
ncquisition of any intercst in business enterprises;
(3)
Not be converted into forcign exchnnge for an indefi-
nite period, and shall be accrpted by the licensec
entirely at, its own risk without guarantec as to value
when conversion into foreign exchange becomes permis-
sible. The licensce will not press for conversion in
advance of restoration of normal Japanese foroign ex-
change.transactions;
(4). Not be transferred, excipt in payment of authorized
obligations, to any person, firm, agency, or organi-
zation for expenditure in Japan.
g. Under the authority of this license, licensee will not en-
gage in any business or conduct any operntion in Janan not necessary and
incidentel to the sale of rights to translate. publish end sell United
States copyrighted books in Japan.
h. Licenser, at all tines, will mnintain complete and.accurate
records of its activities within Japan, engaged in under the authority
of this license, and such records shall be rendily accessible and subject
to inspeotion by duly authorized representatives of the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers.
3. The Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers assuncs no lia-
bility or obligation to furnish licensee facilitics, supplies, subsis-
tence, cguipment, services or othor support which may be necessary for
2

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.97)
B.SIC: Ltr, GHQ, SCAP, AG 000.76(27 May 48)ESS/FIN, dated 27 May 1948,
subj: License to Engnge in Busincss in Japan (FI-23)
the conduct of the business hereby licensed except as provided in Circu-
lar No.12 Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, 9 May 1948.
4. No liability shall attach to the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers, his agents or representatives, or to any agency or sub-
agency of General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
as a rosult of the conduct of the operations hereby licensed. Licensee
will indennify and h-ld harmless the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers, his agents and representatives, or any agency or sub-agency of
General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, from
clains of any nature arising from or in any way connected with the
ocrations engaged in by licensec under this license.
5. The license hereby granted is non-exclusive and non-transferable
and is subject tc amendnent or revocation with or without prior notice
to the licensee by the Suprene Commander for the Allied Powers whenever
in his judgment the interests of the Occupation or military necessity
requircs such action, or when in his judgment the terms of this license
or of any law or regulation have been viclated by the licensce and such
violation necessitates anondment or revocation.
FOR THE SUPREME COMMANDER:
luvnge pbonnor
GEORGE R. CONNOR,
Colonel, A. G. D.,
Asst. Adjutant General.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 6 to Despatch No. 432 dated July 12, 1948 fromt
Office of the U.S.Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, entitled
"Japanese Publishers Acquisition of Rights to Translate and Publish
Forbign Books".
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPHEME COMMAUDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
AG C00.76(27 May 48)ESS/FI
27 May 1948
SUBJEOT: License to Engage in Business in Japan (FI-22)
TO:
His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom, c/o
United Kingdom Liaison Mission in Japan
1. Reference is United Kingdom Liaison Mission letter. Ref:
121/910/47, dated 29 July 1947, subject: Clearance of British
Copyrights, requesting a license for His Majesty's Government in the
United Kingdom to sell to Japanese publishers rights to translate,
publish and sell British copyrighted books in Japan.
2. The Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers hereby grants
to His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom, hereinafter re-
ferred to as licensee, a license to sell to Japanese publishers
rights to translate, publish and sell British copyrighted books in
Japan, and to contract in Japan respecting the sale of such rights
and to conduct through the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
all business necessary and incidental thereto subject to the follow-
ing terms, conditions and limitations:
a. Licensee shall be subject to all rules and regulations
now existing or hereafter issued by or for the Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers. Further, licensee shall be subject to the laws
and. taxes of Japan to the extent that they are now or hereafter may
be made applicable by rules and regulations issued by or for the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers. The attention of the licen-
see is directed particularly to Circular No.12 General Headquarters,
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, dated 9 May 1948, subject:
Admission of Foreign Magazines, Books, Motion Pictures, News and
Photograph Services, et cetera, and their Dissemination in Japan.
The sale to Japanese publishers of rights to translate, publish and
sell British copyrighted books in Japan will be concluded through
the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers in accordance with said
circular.
b. Licensee is authorized to contract in Japan, through the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Fowers, insofar as necessary to the
conduct of the business for which this license is granted, with individ-
uals, agencies, firms, partnerships, companies and corporations, whether
or not of Japanese nationality, for the sale of ri hts to translate,
publish and sell British copyrighted books in Japan.

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
BASIC: Ltr. GEQ, SCAP, AG 000. 76(27 May 48)ESS/FIN, dated 27 May 1948
subj: License to Engage in Business in Japan (FI-22)
c. Contracts, the performance of which may take place, in
whole or in part, in any country other than Japan, shall not be entered
into by the licensee with any person, firm, or agency in Japan, except
with the express approval of the. Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
d. Contracts involving Japanese goods and services declared
critical to the Japanese economy by the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers shall not be entered into by licensee except with the express
approval of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
e. All contracts entered into by the licensee, the performance
of which will take place in Japan, shall be expressed in and all payments
made thereunder or pursuant thereto shall be made in Japanese yen.
f. Except as herein or as otherwise authorized by the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers, all Japanese yen received by the licen-
see from the sale of rights to translate, publish.and sell British
: copyrighted books in Japan shall:
(1) Be used by the licensee for expenditure only in the
acquisition of such goods and services-in Japan as are
clearly essential to its euthorized operetions in Japan;
(2) Not be used for investment of any kind, including the
acquisition of any interest in business enterprises;
(3)
Not be converted into foreign exchange for an indefi-
nite period, and shall. be accepted by the licensee
entirely at its own risk without. guarantee as to value
when conversion into foreign exchange becomes permis-
sible. The licensee will not bress for conversion in
advance of restoration of normal Japanese foreign ex-
change transactions;
(4)
Fot be transferred, except in payment of authorized
obligations, to any person, firm, agency, or, organi-
zation for expenditure in.Japan.
E. Under the authority of this license, licensee will not
engage in any business or conduct any operation in Japan not necessary
and incidental to the sale of rights to trenslate, publish and sell
British-copyrighted books in Japan.
: h. Licensee, at all times, will maintain complete and accurate
records of its activities within Japan, engaged in under the authority
of this license, and such records shall be readily accessible and subject
to inspection by duly authorized representatives of the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers.

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.98)
BASIC: Ltr, GEQ, SCA. AG 000.76(27 May 48)ESS/FIN, dated 27 May 1948,
subj: License to Engage in Business in Japan (FI-22)
3. The Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers assumes no lia-
bility or obligation to furnish licenser facilities, supplies, subsis-
tence, eouinment, services or other support which may be necessary for
the conduct of the business hereby licensed except as provided in Circu-
lar No.12 Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers. 9 May 1948.
4. No liability shall attach to the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers, his agents or representatives, or to any agency or sub-
agency of General Feadquarter, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
as a result of the conduct of the operations hereby licensed. Licensee
will indemnify and hold harmless the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers, his agents and representatives, or any agency or sub-agency of
General Feadquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Fowers, from
claims of any nature arising from or in any way connected with the
operations engaged in by licensee under this license.
5. The license hereby granted is non-exclusive and non-transferable
and is subject to amendment or revocation with or without prior notice
to the licensee by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers whenever
in his judgment the interests of the Occupation or military necessity
requires such action, or when in his judgement the terms of this license
or of any law or regulation have been violated by the licensee and such
violation necessitates amendment or revocation.
FOR THE SUPREME COM ANDER:
Guorge R oonnor
GLORGE R. CONNOR,
Colonel, A. G. D.,
Asst. Adjutant General.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosyre No. 7 to Despatch No. 432 dated July 12, 1948 from the Offioe of 
U. S. Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, entitled "Japanese Publishers Acquint
of Rights to Translate and- Publish Foreign Books".
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
AG 000.76(27 May 48)ESS/FIN
27 May 1948
SUBJECT: License to Engage in Business in Japan (FI-21)
TO:
All Allied Union Internaticnal Bock. 18 Kuznetsky M~st,
Moscow, c/o Office of the Sovict Member. Allied Council
for Janan
1. Reference is letter from tho Soviet Member, Allied Council
for Japan, No.1122, dated 31 March 1947, requesting n license for
the All Allied Union International Bock to conduct business in Japan.
2. The Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers hereby grants
to the All Allied Union Internati-nal Bo-k, 18 Kuznetsky Most, Moscow,
hercinafter referred to as licensee, a license to sell to Japanese
publishers riphts to translate, publish nd sell Russian copyrighted
books in Japan, and to contract in Japan respecting the sale of such
rights and to conduct through the Suprene Commander for the Allied
Powers all business necessary and incidental thereto subject to the
following terms, conditions and limitations:
a. Licenser shall be subject to all rules and regulations now
existing or hereaftrr issued by or for the Suprene Commander for the
Allied Powers. Further, licenser shall be subject to the laws and taxes
of Japan to the extent that they are now or hereafter may be made appli-
cable by rules and regulations issurd by cr for the Supreme Comander
for the Allied Powers. The attrntion of the licenser is directed parti-
cularly tc Circular No.12 General Headquarters, Suprene Commander for
tho Allied Powers, dated 9 May 1948, subject: Admission of Foreign
Magazines, Bocks, Motion Pictures, News nnd Photograph Services, et
cetera, nd thcir Dissemination in Japan. The sale to Japanese publishers
cf rights to translate, publish and sell Russian copyrighted books in
Japan will be goncluded through the Supreme Conmander for the Allied
Powers in accordance with said circular.
b. Licensee is authorized to contract in Janan, through the
Suprene Commander for the Allied Powers, insofar as neceseary to the con-
duct of the business for which this licenso is granted, with individuals.
agencies, firms, partnerships, comnanies and corporations, whether or not
of Japanese nationality, for the sale of rights to translate, publish and
sell Russian copyrighted books in Japan.
c. Contracts, the performance of which mey take place, in whole
or in nart, in any country other than Japan, shall not be entered into
by the licenser with any person, firn, or agency in Janen, except with
the express approval of the Suoreme Commander for the Allied Powers.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
BASIC: Ltr, GEQ, SCAP, AG 000.76(27 May 48) SS/FIN. dated 27 May 1948,
subj: License to Engage in Busines's in Japan (FI-21)
d. Contraots involving Japanese goods and services declared
critical to the Japanese economy by the Supreme Conninder for the
Allied Powers shall not be entered into by licensee except with the
express approval of the Suprene Connander for the Allied Powers.
c. All contracts entered into by the licensee, the performance
of which will take place in Japan, shall be expressed in and all payments
nado thercunder or pursuant thereto shall be made in Japanese yen.
f. Except as herein or as otherwise authorized by the Supreme
Comnander for the Allied Powers, all Japanese yen received by the licen-
sco from the sale of rights to translate, publish and sell Russian
copyrighted books in Japan shall:
(1) Be used by the licenser for expenditure only in the
acquisition of such goods and services in Japan ns
are clearly essential to its authorized operations
in Japan;
(2) Not be used for investment of any kind; including the
acquisition of any interest in business enterprises;
(3)
Not be converted into. forcign exchange for an indefi-
nite period, and shall be accepted by the licensec
entirely at its own risk without guarantee as to value
when conversion into foreign exchange becomes permis-
sible. The licensee will not press for conversion in
advance of restoration of nornal Jananese foreign ex-
change transactions.
(4)
Not be transferred, except in payment of nuthorized
olligations, to any person, firm, agency, or organi-
zation for expenditure in Japan.
g. Under the authority of this license, licensee will not
engage in any business or conduct ony operation in Japan not necossary
and incidental to the sale of rights to translate, publish and sell
Russian copyrighted books in Japan.
h. Licensee, at all times, will naintain complete and accurate
records of its activities within Japan, engaged in under the authority of
this license, and such records shall be readily accessible and subject to
inspection by duly authorized representatives of the Supreme Commander
for thc Allied Fowers.
3. The Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers assumes no liability
or obligation to furnish licensee facilities, supplies, subsistence,
2

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.98)
BASIC: Ltr, GEQ, SCAF, AG 000.76(27 May 48)ESS/FIN, dateA 27 May 1948,
subj: License to Engage in Business in Japan (FI-2l)
equipment,services or other supnort which may be necessary for the
conduct of the husiness hereby licensed except as provided in Circular
No.12 Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, S May 1948.
4. No liability shall attach to the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers, his agents or representatives, or to any agency or sub-
agency of General Feadguarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
as a result of the conduct of the operations hereby licensed. Licensee
will indennify and hold harmless the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Fowers, his agents and representatives, or any agency or sub-agenoy of
General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied owers, from
claims of any nature arising from or in any way connected with the
operations engaged in by licensee under this license.
5. The license hereby granted is non-exclusive and non-transferable
and is subject to amendment or revocation with or without prior notice
to the licensee by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers whenever
in his judgment the interests of the Occupation or military necessity
requires such action, or when in his judgment the terms of this license
or of any law or regulation have been violated by the licensee and such
violation necessitates amendment or revocation.
FOR THE SUPREME COMLANDER:
Gurge  bonnor
GEORGE R.'CONNOR,
Colonel, A. G. D.,
Asst. Adjutant General.
3

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 8 to despatch No. 432 dated July 12, 19481
the U.S.Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, entitled "Japanos
Acquisition of Rights to Translate and Publish Foreign Books".
GEJERAL HEADQUARTERS
.. SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500:
AG 000.76(11 May 48)SS/FIN
25 June 1948
SUBJECT: License to Engage in Business in Japan (FI-97)
TO:
The Republic of.France, c/o The Chief of the French Mission
in Japan
1. Reference is Memorandum from the French Mission in Japan to
General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
11 May 1948, subject: Request for a license authorizing the repre-
sentation in Japan of French copyrights' owners which requests the
issuance of a license to the Republic of France to engage in the
assignment of translation rights of French books to Japanese publishers.
2. The Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers hereby grants to
the Republic of France, hereinafter referred to as licensee, a license
to sell rights to translate and publish French copyrighted books to
Japanese publishers, and to contract in Japan respecting the sale of
such rights and to conduct. through the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers all business necessary and incidental thereto subject to the
following terms, conditions and limitations:
a. Licensee shall be subject to all rules and regulations now
existing or hereafter issued by or for the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers. Further, licensee shall be subject to the laws and
taxes of Japan to the extent that they are now or hereafter may be
made applicable by rules and regulations issued by or for the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers. The attention of the licensee is
directed particularly to Circular No. 12 General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers, dated 9 May 1948, subject: Admission
of Foreign Magazines, Books, Motion Pictures, News and Photograph Ser-
vices, et cetera, and their Dissemination in Japan. The sale to
Japanese publishers of rights to translate, publish and sell United
States copyrighted books in Japan will be concluded through the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers in accordance with said circular.
b. Licensee is authorized to contract in Japan. through the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, insofar as necessary to the
conduct of the business for which this license is granted, with indivi-
duals, agencies, firms, partnerships, companies and corporations,
whether or not of Japanese nationality, for the sale of rights to
translate, publish and sell French copyrighted books in Japan.
c. Contracts, the performance of which may take place in
whole or in part,.in any country.other than Japan, shall not be
entered into by the lieensee with any porson, firm, or agency in
Japan, except.with the express approval of the Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers.

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
BASIC: Ltr, GHQ, SCAP, AG 000.76(11 May 48)ESS/FIN, 25 June 1948,
subj: License to Engage in Business in Japan (FI-97)
d. Contracts involving Japanese goods and services declared
critical to the Japanese economy by the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers shall not be entered into by licensee except with the express
approval of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
e. All contracts entered into by the licensee, the performance
of which will take place in Japan, shall be expressed in and all pay-
ments made thereunder or pursuant thereto shall be made in Japanese yen.
f. Except as hercin or as otherwise authorized by the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers, all Japanese yen received by the
licensee from the sale of rights to translate, publish and sell French
copyrighted books in Japan shall:
(1) Be used by the licensee for expenditure only in the
acquisition of such goods and services in Japan as
are clearly essential to its authorized operations
in Japan
(2)
Not be used for investment of any kind, including the
acquisition of any interest in business enterprises
(3)
Not be converted into foreign exchange for an indefi-
nite period, and shall be accented by the licensee
entirely at its own risk without guarantee as to
value when conversion into foreign exchange becomes
permissible. The licensee will not press for con-
version in advance of restoration of normal Japanese
foreign exchange transactinns
(4)
Not be transferred, except in payment of authorized
obligations, to any person, firm, agency, or organi-
zation for expenditure in Japan.
g. Under the authority of this license, licensee will not
engage in any business or conduct any operations in Japan not necessary
and incidental to the sale of rights to translate, publish and sell
French copyrighted books in Japan.
h. Licensee, at all times, will maintain complete and accurate
records of its activities within Japan, engaged in under the authority
of this license, and such records shall be readily accessible and sub-
ject to inspection by duly authorized renresentatives of the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers.
3. The Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, assumes no
liability or obligation to furnish licensee facilities, supplies, sub-
sistence, equipment, services or other sunport which may be necessary
2

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.98)
C
BASIC: Ltr, GHQ, SCAP, AG 000.76(11 May 48)ESS/FIN, 25 Jume 1948,
subj: License to Engage in Business in Japan (FI-97)
for the conduct of the business hereby licensed except as provided in
Circular No. 12 Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, 9 May 1948.
4. No liability shall attach to the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers, his agents or representatives, or to any agency or sub-
agency of General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
as a result of the conduct of the operations hereby licensed. Licensee
will indemnify and hold harmless the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers, his agents and representatives, or any agency or sub-agency of
General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, from
claims of any nature arising from or in any way connected with the
operations engaged in by licensee under this license.
5. The license hereby granted is non-exclusive and non-transferable
and is subject to amendment or revocation with or without prior notice
to the licensee by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers whenever
in his judgment the interests of the occupation or military necessity
requires such action, or when in his judgment the terms of this license
or of any' law or regulation have been violated by the licensee and such
violation necessitates amendment or revocation.
FOR THE SUPREME COMMANDER:
afTiche
AÉHE
Major, AGD
Asst Adj Gen
3

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.96)
3036
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, October 8, 1948
ACTION
No. 661
is assigned to
DIVISION OF ECONOMIC PROPERTY
NCLASSIFIED
POLICY
9
OCT201948
S
Mo whin 
OF
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
3
MN
15
E
Second Offering of Foreign Copyrighted Books
DEPAF
9
to despatch No. 432, July 12, 1948, regarding the acquisi-
894.544/10-848
tion by Japanese publishers of rights to translate and
publish certain specified foreign books, and to forward
1
herewith a second list of titles recently offered to
Japanese publishers together with a copy of this Head-
2/
quarters' press release regarding the offering.
This second list of books is shorter than the first,
including only eighty-one titles, seven of which are by
French authors, eighteen by British, fifty-four by
American, and two by Soviet Russian. The French books
ACTION
deal with economic and technical subjects. The two
OFD
Soviet Russian books are Leningrad by Nikolai Tikhonov
OOPIES
and Soviet Short Stories from eighteen authors. Included
To:
in the list are approximately forty books on scientific
and technical subjects recommended by various sections
FE
of this Headquarters, and four children's books.
0
It will be noted that the press release refers to
ITP
an offering of eighty-two foreign books. After its
issuance the French work by Richet and Maranon entitled
OLI
Alimentation was withdrawn.
POS
scR
lea writh orng
CS/V
Enclosures:
1943 0CT
DEPARTHEFT OF STATE
1. Second List of Books,
Sept 27, 1948 (5 copies)
RECEIVED
894.
2. Press release, More Foreign
18
Books Offered (4 copies)
AM 8
Original and nectograph to the Department
51
544
854
JDEdwards:vw
DEL? 1948
110
10-848
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despateh No
dated October 8, 1948 from the
United States Political Adviser
for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject
"Second Offering of Foreign Copy-
righted Books for Translation and
Publication in Japan".
SECOND LIST OBOOKS OFFERED TO JAPANESE PUBLISHERS
FOR COMPETITIVE BIDDING
27 September 1948
1. AGRICULTURE IN AN UNSTABLE ECONOMY, by Theodore W. Schultz.
2. ALIMENPATION, by Ch. Richot and G. Maranon.
3.
THE BABE RUTH STCRY, by Bob Considine.
4.
BRITISH TRADE UNIONS, by Barou.
5.
CARTELS: CHALLENGE TO A FREE WORLD, by Wendell Berge.
6.
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING PLANT DESIGN, by F. C. Vilbrandt.
7.
CHEMISTRY OF ACETYLENE, by Nieuwland & Vogt.
8.
CHRISTIAN ETHICS AND MODERN PRCBLEMS,' by William Ralph Inge.
9.
THE CLOSED SHOP, by Jerome L. Toner.
10.
THE CONDITION OF MAN, by Lewis Mumford.
11.
LES CONSEQUENCES ECONOLIQUES DE LA GUERRE, 1939-1946, by Jean Chardonnet.
12.
DEMOCRACY IN THE DOMINIONS, by Alexander Brady.
13.
LA DENUTRITION, by Maurice Lar, Michel Lamotte and S. Lamotte-Barrilion.
14.
DYNAMICS OF INDUSTRIAL REVCIT, by Clinton Golden and H.J. Ruttenberg.
15.
DYNAMICS OF VOCATIONAL ADJUST:L.T, by Donald E. Super.
16.
DYNAMIQUE DU SOL, by Albert Demolon.
17.
ECONOMICS OF TRANSPORTATION IN A:ERICA, by Kent T. Healy.
18.
ELEMENTS OF RURAL SOCIOLOGY, by Newell LeRoy Sims.
19.
EMINENT VICTCRIANS, by Lytton Strachey.
20.
ENGLISH POLITICAL INSTITUTIONS: AN INTRODUCTORY STUDY, by John Arthur
Ransom Marriott.
21.
EQUIPEMEIT THERMIQUE DES USINES GENERATRICES ENERGIE ELECTRIQUE, bY
J. Ricard.
22.
FINANCING GOVERNMENT, by Harold M. Groves.
23.
FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE, by D. Lammond.
24.
FORTNIGHT IN SEPTEMBER, by R. C. Sherriff.
25.
FREEDOM SPEAKS, by George F. Reynolds.
26.
THE FREE SOCIETY, by John Middleton Murray
27.
THE FREE STATE, by D. W. Brogan.
28.
FREEDOM AND CULTURE, by John Dewey.
29.
FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION FCR PROFIT, by Henry B. Cooley.
30.
FULL EMPLOYMENT IN A FREE SOCIETY, by Beveridge.
31.
FUN WITH SCIENCE, by Mae and Ira Freeman.
32.
FUNDAMENTALS OF PUBLIC SCHOOL ADIINISTRATION, by Ward G. Reeder.
33.
FUNDAMENTALS OF OPTICAL ENGINEERING, by Donald H. Jacobs.
34.
GAUGING PUBLIC OPINION, by Hadley Cantril.
35.
GENERAL EDUCATION IN A FREE SOCIETY, Harvard University Committee on the
Objectives of a General Education in a Free Society.
36.
A HISTORY OF LOCAL GOVERNIENT, by Kingsley Bryce Smellie.
37.
HOW NEW WILL THE BETTER WCRLD BE?, by Car1 L. Becker.
38.
HOW TO INTERVIEW, by Walter Bingham and B. V. Moore.
39.
HOW TO TRAIN SUPERVISORS, by R. C. Beckman.
40.
HUMANITIES AND THE COMMON MAN, by. Norman Foerster.
41.
HYDRAULIQUE GENERALE ET APPLIQUEE, by D. Rydoux.
42.
KID FROM TOMKINSVILLE, by John R. Tunis.
43.
LAND ECONOMICS, by Roland R. Renne.
44.
LENINGRAD, by Nikolai Tikhonov.

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.99)
45.
MAINSPRINGS OF CIVILIZATION, by Ellsworth Huntington.
46.
MAKING OF THE MANCHESTER GUARDIAN, by C. P. Scott.
47.
MODERN CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION, by Dr. Harry Soderman and John J. O'Connell.
48.
MODERN PRACTICE IN LEATHER MANUFACTURE, by John.A. Wilson.
49.
MY FRIEND FLICKA, by Mary O'Hara
50.
NATURE AND PREVENTION OF PLANT DISEASES, by Kenneth S. Chester.
51.
ORGANIZED LABCR AND PRODUCTION, by Norris L. Cooke and Philip Murray.
52.
OUR CIVIL LIBERTIES, by Osmund K. Fraenkel.
53.
OUR PARLIAMENT, by Strathearn Gordon.
54.
OVERVIEW OF ELEMENTARY EDUCATION, by Bernice Baxter and A. M. Bradley.
55.
PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION, ITS PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICES, by Ordway Tead
and Hemry Metcalf.
56.
POLICE SYSTEMS IN THE UNITED STATES, by Bruce Smith.
57.
PRACTICAL METALLURGY, by Liselotte L. Sachs and Estelle Y. Van Harn.
58.
PREVENTIVE MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HEALTH, by Wilson George Smillie.
59. ..PSYCHOLOGY OF ADOLESCENCE, by Luella Cole.
60. RACE, SCIENCE AND POLITICS, by Ruth Benedict.
61. RECONSTRUCTION OF WORLD AGRICULTURE, by KarI Brandt.
62. LES RELATIONS ECONOMIQUES INTERNATIONALES, by Henri Truchy and Maurice Bye.
63.
RUNNER OF THE MOUNTAIN TOPS: THE LIFE OF LOUIS AGASSIZ, by Mabel L. Robinson.
64.
SCIENCE IN CHILDHOOD EDUCATION, by Gerald Spellnan Craig.
65.
SCIENCE OF MAN IN THE WORLD CRISIS, by Ralph Linton (Editor).
66.
SMALL COMMUNITIES IN ACTION: STORIES OF CITIZEN PROGRAMS AT WORK, by Jean
Carter (Mrs. Jessie Ogden).
67.
SOVIET SHORT STORIES, by Eighteen Authors.
68.
STATISTICAL METHODS IN RESEARCH AND PRODUCTION, With Special Reference to
the Chemical Industry, by Owen Davies.
69.
SWEDEN, THE MIDDLE WAY, by Marquis W. Childs.
70.
TEMPERATURE, ITS MEASUREMENT AND CONTROL IN SCIENCE AND INDUSTRY, by the
American Institute of Physics.
71.
THEORIE ET PRATIQUE DES AMPLIFICATEURS, by J. Quinet.
72.
TRANSPORTATION UNDER TWO MASTERS, by Charles D. Drayton.
73.
TRENDS IN COLLECTIVE BARGAINING, by S. T. Williamson and Herbert Harris.
74.
THR TRUTH ABOUT PUBLISHING, by Sir Stanley Unwin.
75.
UNDERSTOOD BETSY, by Dorothy Canfield Fisher.
76.
UNION CHALLENGE TO MANAGEMENT CONTROL, by N. W. Chamberlain.
77.
UNION POLICIES AND INDUSTRIAL MANAGENENT, by Sumner H. Slichter.
78.
VIRUS AND RICKETTSIAL DISEASES, by John Gordon and others.
79.
VOLUNTARY SOCIAL SERVICES SINCE 1918, by Henry A. Mess and Others, edited
by Gertrude Williams.
80. THE WATER-BUFFALO CHILDREN, by Pearl S. Buck.
81. WILBERFORCE, by Reginald Coupland.
82. WILLIAM BOOTH, by Harold Begbie.
2

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.95)
One that Chief Tokyo Librarian Michael Finkin, Brooklyn,
couldn't answer immediately was "What does '40 acres and a
mule' mean?"
A Tokyo porcelain factory asked for a picture of Ernie
Pyle to be used for reproduction on chinaware. And a Japanese
newsreel comnany requested a photo of "The Spirit of '76" to
incorporate in a short on democracy. Although librarians had
to go a bit beyond their line of duty, the requests were filled.
Fven SCAF officials have turned to the libraries for in-
formation. Recently the Army Criminal Investigation Division
asked for and got details on the use of a zinc chromite coat-
ing in connection with a case laboratory analysis.
In another instance, an Army war crimes investigator came
to the Tokyo library to obtain a book on burns and shock therapy.
The prosecution wished to prove that Japanese doctors could have
saved the lives of injured American var prisoners by giving them
proner medical treatment.
Primarily though, the libraries serve as information and
education centers for the English-reading Japanese, who in most
towns include a large segment of the population and many of
Japan's future lenders. Librarians vork closely with Military
Government tears to acgaint Japanese schools and other organi-
zations vith the American way of life. The libraries also are
used to further acquaint the Japanese with the rest of the world
through various exhibits and by distribution of recordings of
modern symphonies and American folksongs.
The libraries vere started in November, 1945, soon after
the first Arerican troops landed in Japan, when the Tokyo unit
was opened at a temporary site. Other units were established
in Kyoto and Nagoya. Early this year a rapid expansion began
with.branches set up at Niigata, Kanazawa, Sendai, Sarroro,
Osaka, Kobe and Fukuoka--each with a nucleus of 3,Ooo books and
400'magazines subscripticns.
ung
In the past two months five rore branches were established
at Shizuoka, Nagasaki, Takamatsu, Yokohama and Hakodate. And
on
within the next few weeks libraries will be set up-at Kumamoto
and Hiroshima, completing a Japan-wide chain of.17 English-
language information centers for the Japanese, in or within easy
d
1
reach of every city of nore than 200,000 peopie.
S
-0-
TROT ICAL STORM "KIT" NOHTH OF HAINAN ISLAND
T
HEAI UARTERS, 43I VEATHEF WING, TOKYO--Tropical Storm "Kit"
was centered 60 riles east of the northern tip of the Island of
Hainan at 1o p.m., Tokyo time Sunday with maximum surface winds
S
uk
of 60 knots near the center of the storm, according to the Ty-
hoon Warning Network of the 43d Weather Wing.
Maximun surface winds near the center of the storm are fore-
a
cast to cecrease to 25 knots by the time the storm moves inland
over the China coast northwest of Hainan Monday afternoon.
g
-0-
MOIE FOREIGN BOOKS OFFERED TO JAPANESE PUBLISHERS
2
K
p
ii
C
t
A new list of 82 conterporary foreign books is being made
a
available to Japanese publishers, Lt. Col. D. R. Nugent, chief
C
00
n
g
of the Civil Information and Education Section, GHQ, SCAF, an-
a
p
nounced today.
P
8
F
Competitive bids are being invited from the Japanese pub-
r
lishing trade, under the translation program authorized by the
a
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers. Copies of the books
will be placed on display in Tokyo and in Osaka by the Japan
Fublishers Association.
(more)

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.97)
A previous list of 98 British and American books was
offere to bidders last June.
The new list includes arproximately 40 books on scicntific
and technical subjects, all recormended by SCAP sections to
bring the Japanese up to date in fields of science and medicine,
and to assist in rehabilitation of the Japanese economy.
Among books of general interest are Lob Considine's The
Fabe Ruth Story, Leris Munford's The Condition of Man, D.W.
Lrogan's The Free State, John Dewey's Freedom and Culture
and Dr. Ellsworth Huntington's Mainsprings of Civilization.
Several·children's books are included, anong them Mary
O'Hara's best-selling My Friend Flicka; John R. Tunis' Kid
from Tonkinsville; Dorothy Canfield Fisher's Understood
Betsy, and Pearl Buck's Water Luffalo Children.
Bids will close Oct. 19, and successful bidders will be
announced 0ct. 25.
-0-
TWO JAFANES PLEAD NOT GUILTY TO VAR CRIMES CHARGES
Two former Japanese soldiers, an officer and an enlisted
man, pleaded not guilty today when charged by SCAP's Legal
Section at Yokohama with behending Maj. Sidney F. Wharton
(address unknown) on Eougainville in December, 1943.
Capt. Taichi Ito of the Japanese 17th Army Kempei-tai
allegedly ordered the beheading, and Sgt.-Major Sadatoshi
Sakamoto allegedly carried out the execution following the Amer-
ican's canture. Major Wharton, a member of the 18th Fighter
Group, 13th Air Force, was shot down between Falla and Short-
land Islands in November, 1943.
-0-

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.92)
DCTC
ACTION
UNITED STATE
is assigned to
FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, October 29, 1948
DWISION OF
10. 698
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
NOV - 9 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
sub ject:
Further Foreign Copyrighted Eooks for
Trensletion end lublicatien in Japa
N00
57330
5
The : onorable
The secretary of itate,
065
weshington.
FETR. LIOLI
ir:
8
I nave the honor to refer to despetches Nos. 432,
Past
July 12, 194o :nd o61, cctober 8, 1948 regarding the
ecquisition ly Japenese pl lishers of the translation
and : ublicatien rignts of specified foreign books made
ACTION
17P
aveilalle by this Feadguarters, und to forward herewith
COPIES
a third list of titles recently offered to Japanese pub-
lishers, together witn e cory of this Heedquarters'
TO:
FE
2
press release on the mubject.
2948
The third offerine includes only fifty-two titles,
L
of which two ere by preneh puthers, four by british and
forty-six by Americen. As in the case of previous offer-
OLI
ings, technical and scientiric titles predominate. When
POS
bidding closed on tetober 19 for the books of the second
offering mede veilctle o eptember 27, there remained
twenty-three tities for wrich no tids were made, and these
A2
ore autonticclly carried over to offer with the third
list with the result that seventy-five instead of fifty-
two titles cre nov cpen for tid ling.
CS/A
Fifteen tooks of the secunl offering will net their
cuthors over 1,000,0o0 yen in royelties on the first
edition if the authorized number of copies ere all sold.
on the same basis three books vill net their authors over
2,000,000 yen in royelties. of the latter one is the
Russián book soviet short ptories from eighteen authors;
894.544
one is the work by the iritish tuthor william halph Inge
entitled Christian uthies and odern Protlems and one is
the children's book Understood hetsy by the American
author, Dorothy Canfield Fisher. The work authorized in
the
*
British titles have been marked with an asterisk 
FILHD
Enclosure No. 1; French titles with two asterisks
9
1948
UNCLASSIFIED
2944

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 698,
October 29, 1948.
- 2-
the greatest number of copies is Fun with Science by Mae
and Ira Freeman, the limit being 100,000 copies. The
next greatest number of copies authorized is 50,000, this
limit being set for six books including both of the Russian
works offered.
The successful bids for the second offering were made
Ly thirty-eight Japanese publishing companies out of a
total of one hundred nd thirt-three which submitted four
hundred and thirty-nine bids.seven of the successful
companies were awarded three titles each, six companies
two each and twenty-five companies one each. Only one
newspaper publishing company is represented among them,
the Asahi Shimbun rublishing Company, which bid for and
was awarded the rights to only one work, The Babe Ruth
Story by Robert Considine. The highest straight royalty
offered is 32 percent which will be paid on Fearl Buck's
3
book The Water-Buffalo Children. Copies of an article
regarding the bidding which appeared in the NIPPON TIMES
of October 27, 1948 are enclosed.
hespectfully yours,
Lw. Secace.
W. J. Sebald
stur
lea 2ithong
Enclosures:
1. Third List of Foreign books, 20 Cct 48
2. iress Release, 21 0ct 48
3. Article, MIFrON TIms, 27 Oct 48
Original and hectograph to Department
854.
JDEdwards:vw
UNCLASSIFIED
PAM

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 6
Oct 29, 1948 from the United States Pel
cal Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the suby
"Further Foreign Copyrighted Books for
Translation and Publication in Japan."
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COITANDER FOR THE ALLIED POERS
Civil Information and Education Section
THIRD LIST OF FOREIGN BOOKS OFFERED TO JAPANESE
PUBLISHERS FOR COHPET IT IVE BIDS
20 October 1.948
1. ACCIDENT INVESTIGATION UANUAL, by Franklin M. Kreml.
2.
APPLIED NUCLEAR PHYSICS, by Ernest Pollard and 7. L. Davidson.
3.
CHEMISTRY AND TECHNOLOGY OF PLASTICS, by Raymond Nauth.
4.
CELLULOSE CHEMISTRY, by Emil Hauser.
5.
CHEMISTRY OF PULP AND PAPER-AKING, by Edwin Sutermeister.
6.
CIRCUIT ANALYSIS OF ALTERFATING CURRENT POWER SYSTEMS, by Edith Clarke.
*7. CONSUMER CO-OPERATION IN GREAT BRITAIN, by A. M. Carr-SaunderS, P. Sargant
Florence, and Robert Peters.
8. CONSTRUCTION PLANNING AND PLANT, by A. J. Ackerman and C. H. Locher.
9.
THE CO-OPERATIVE WAY; A HETHOD OF TORLD RECONSTRUCT ION, by James P. Warbasse.
￥10.
DEI OCRΛCY IN SCHOOL LIFE, by the Associntion for Education in Citizenship.
11.
ECONOMIC BASIS OF POLIT IĆS, by Charles Beard.
12.
ELECTRIC MOTORS IN INDUSTRY, by Shoultz and Rife.
13.
ELECTRONS, PHOTONS, PROTONS, NEUTRONS, MESOTRONS AND COSHIC RAYS, by Robert
A. Millikan.
14.
ELEMENTARY NUCLEAR THEORY, by Hans Bethe.
15.
EVIDENCE HANDBOOK FOR POLICE, by Franklin M. Kreml.
16.
EXPERIMENTAL ELECTRONICS, by Ralph H. Luller.
17.
FARMER IN THE SECOND WORLD WAR, by Walter W. Wilcox.
18.
FARIIEnS OF THE WORLD, by Brunner, Saunders and Esminger.
19.
GLASS GIANT OF PALOMAR, by David O. Woodbury.
+20.
HYGIEN SOCIALE DE L ENFANCE, by Dr. H. Roueche.
21.
LIFE OF R SCOE POUND, by Paul Sayre.
22.
LULBER, ITS MANUFACTURING, CONDITIONING, GRADING, DISTRIBUTION AND USE, by
Nelson C. Brown.
23. MATTHEVIS  TEXTILE FIBERS; THEIR PHYSICAL, HICR)SCOPICAL AND CHEMICAL
PROPERT IES, by Herbert Mauersberger.
24.
NON-FERROUS PRODUCTION METALLURGY, by John L. Bray.
25.
OFFICE SUPERVISOR, HIS RELATION TÓ PERSONS AND TO WORK, by Henry Niles and
M. C. H. Niles.
26.
ONE FOOT IN HEAVEN, by Hartzell Spence.
27。
OUR PARTNERSHIP, by Beatrice Webb.
28
PATHOLOGIE DE LIHYPOSHYSE, by Ch. Richet, G. Maranon, and M. Rymer.
29.
PSYCHOLOGY AND LIFE, by Floyd L. Ruch.
30.
REFRIGERATION ENGINEERING, by Horace MacIntire.
31.
STATIST ICAL ADJUSTMENT OF DATA, by William Deming.
32.
THEORY OF RESONANCE AND ITS APPLICATION TO ORGANIC CHEMISTRY, by GeOrge W.
Wheland.
33.
TO THE LIGHTHOUSE, by Virginia Woolf.
34. ULTRA HIGH-FREQUENCY TECHNIQUES, by John G. Broinerd.
MORE

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.98)
35. WEATHER ANALYSIS AND FORECASTING, by Sverre Peterssen.
36. WONDERFUL ADVENTUFES OF PAUL BUNYAN, by Louis Untermoyer.
37. WOOD TECHNOLOGY, by Harry D. Ticmann.
#＃＃#
38. ADMINISTRATION OF THE MODERN SECONDARY SCHOOL, by. JameS B. Edmondson.
39. CAUSES OF CATASTROPHES, EARTHQUAKES, VOLCANOES, TIDAL WAVES AND HURRICANES
by Lewis Donald Leet.
40. ELECTROMAGNETIC ENGINEERING, by Ronald King.
41. ELEMENTS OF POLICE SCIENCE, by Rollin Perkins.
42.
ESSAYS IN TRANSPORTATION, by Harold Innis (Editor).
43.
FRENCH LABOR FROM POPULAR FRONT TO LIBERATION, by Henry W. Ehrmann.
44.
GUIDE TO LITERATURE OF AT MAT ICS AND PHYSICS, by Nathan G. Parke.
45.
INTRODUCTION TO PHYSICAL EDUCATION, by Eugene Nixon and F. W. Cozens.
46.
MACHINE DESIGN NOTES AND PROBLEMS, by P. H. Hyland.
47.
MODERN OPERATIONAL MATHEMATICS IN ENGINEERING by Ruel V. Churchill.
48.
PLAST IC WORKING OF METALS AND NON-METALLIC HATERIALS IN PRESSES, by E.V.
Crane.
49. ROADWAY AND TRACK, by Walter F. Rench.
50.
TEXTBOOK ·OF BACTERIOLOGY, by Jordan and Burrows.
51. TRANSPORTATION, A MEASUREMENT OF CIVILIZATION, by Westinghouse Educational
Foundation.
52. WOOD PRESERVATION, by George Hunt and George Gerratt.
#

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No
dated Oct 29, 1948 from tho Unit
States Political Adviser for Japan
-Tokyo, on the subject "Further
Foreign Copyrighted Books for
Translation and Publication in Japan
GENERAL IEAT QUALTE:S
FAI. EAST COIL AND
Tulic Information Office
Press Helease:
21 Octoher 1948
1330
ANNOUNCE THIRD LIST OF FOFEIGN LOOKS FOF TIANSLATION
A thirc list of 52 foreign books was mace available to
Jarnesc rublishers tecoy uncer SCAP's translation program.
Announcement of the list was sir ult: neous with the close
of biccin for 81 'ooks offerec 'y SCAr Sept. 27. Successful
hicers on the seccn list nre to e announced Oct. 25.
The newest list, largely technical anc scientific titles,
incluces 46 looks of Americ n crigin, four Iritish anc two
French. Licding will close Nov. 1o nd successful biccers vill
he announced Nov. 15.

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 698 dated Oct 29, 1948 from
the United States Political,Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on
the subject "Further Foreign Copyrighted Books for Transla-
tion and Publication in Japan".
NIPPON TIMES
October 27, 1948
Wednesday
40 PUBLISHERS BID
ON FOREIGN BOOKS
Get Translation Rights to
58 Publications Which
Are Approved by SCAP
Forty Japanese publishers
are being awarded commercial
translation rights for 58 for-
cign books, SCAP's Civil In-
formation and Education Sec-
tion announced Monday. The
awards are made on the basis
of competitive bidding for the
second list offered under
SCAP's translation program.
The translation rights, many
of them for technical and sci-
entific works recommended by
various SCAP sections. were
made available September 27.
and bids closed October 19. It
was the second group of for-
eign books to be made avail-
able under commercial con-
tracts since the ending of the
war. Simultaneously with
closing of bids on the second
group, SCAP made available a
third list of 52 titles on which
bids will be received by No-
vember 10.
Successful bidders offered royal-
ties ranging from a minimum of
5 per cent up to a high of 35.5 per
cent for the illustrated science book
for children. "Fun With Science,"
by Mae and Ira Freeman: Pearl
Buck's "Water Buffalo Children"
drew a record number of 48 bids.
excceding the previous record of 46
for George Orwell's "Animal Farm."
Bunshodo Publishing Company of
Osaka, which was the high bidder
for "Fun With Science." also bid
in "Water Buffalo Children" at 32
per gent royalty, and Mary O'Hara's
"My Friend Flicka" at 28 per cent.
The Asahi Shimbun Publishing
Company of Tokyo acquired trans-
lation rights to "The Babe Ruth
Story." the autobiography of Babe
Ruth as told to Bob Considine.
Asahi will pay Y300,000 in advance
royalties on an intended 30,000
conies retailing at Y200 "each.
However, despite these exception-
ally high bids, the average basic
bid was 13.9 per cent. down 1.1 per
cent from the first bidding. More-
over. three-fourths of all the bids
fell between 5 per cent and 15.5
per cent.
A total of 133 publishers indicated
interest in foreign books. making
439 sealed bids on 58 books. Offers
of advance royalties totaled Y1.060.-
000 substantially less than the recod
of Y6,973.709 paid on the flrst list.

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.96)
Assigned to
RCD
ACTION
is assigned to
~FOR JAPAN
lotion
. ice Symbol.
LEGAL ADVISER
::icer
No. 783
JAN111949
MAY 5-1949
Zle
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
dnfo. hoted
RESTRICTED
DEPARTMENT OF SIATE
roaction
Subject:
Publication Rights of Forelgn Copyrighted
Necessavy
Books Acquired by JapaneseoPublishers
L/B
JAA 3 1948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
ENNATIONAL RESQUBDES GIVISION
JAI. 131949
Sir:
DEPARTIMENT OF STATE
I have the honor to refer to despatch 698, October 29,
1948 regarding the third offering of foreign copyrighted
books for translation and publication in Japan, and to
forward herewith a list of those books of the third offer-
ing the translation and publication rights to which have
been awarded to Japanese publishers.
Only thirty-nine of the seventy-five titles available
for bidding interested Japanese publishers. Among these
scientific and technical works predominate. The maximum
ACTION
number of copies authorized for publication is 30,000,
in which number of copies four books will be published:
COPIES
To the Lighthouse by Virginia Woolf, The Economics of
0
Politics by Charles Beard, Elements of Police Science by
Rollin Perkins, and The Evidence Handbook for Police by
Franklin Kreml. Only two non-American works appear among
the thirty-nine titles authorized for publication; these
are both British, one being Virginia Woolf's book as men-
CS/AFILED
tioned and the other Democracy in School Life compiled by
The Association for Education in Citizenship. Two other
-u British works and two French works on the list of titles
offered were not taken. The highest straight royalty
offered is. twenty-one percent for Louis Untermeyer's
Do
Wonderful Adventures of Paul Bunyan. The next highest
royalty offered, twenty percent, is for a technical engi-
7r
neering book. Six of the thirty-nine books, if all sold
out on the first editions, will each net their respective
owners over ¥1,O00,O00 in royalties. The highest such
royalty will be ¥2,100,000 to the author of Elements of
Police Science.
The successful bids for the third offering were made
by twenty-five Japanese publishing companies, among which,
for the first time, no newspaper publishing company is
represented
RESTRICTED

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's despatch No. 783,
December 14, 1948.
-2-
represented. Only one company bid for and acquired the
rights to as many as three books. Thus far, since the
inauguration of this program for making the translation
and publication rights of foreign copyrighted books
available to Japanese publishers, 188 titles have been
taken up, the majority of which are scientific and
technical works.
By letter of November 23, 1948 the Trade Representative
of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in Japan com-
plained to this Headquarters that only two of ten Russian
titles submitted for publication clearance were included
in the second list of books (which was enclosed with this
Mission's despatch 661 of October 8, 1948). The Trade
Representative particularly singled out the exclusion of
the book Ivan Grozny by Wipper, stated to be a well-known
member of the Soviet Academy of Science, and described the
book as one depicting a period of Russian history in its
true light. He also calied attention to the fact that a
Russian motion picture of the same name based on the book
was cleared by this Headquarters for showing in Japan. A
request was therefore made in the letter that the book be
included in the next list of offerings. (In this connection,
it may be useful to refer to despatch No. 1883 of November 26,
1947 from the Embassy in Moscow concerning an article in
the Soviet press on suppression of Soviet literature in
Japan.)
Respectfully yours,
0
W. J. Sebald
in
Enclosure:
List of books offered
for translation and publication.
Original and hectograph to Department.
854
JDEdwards:vw
RESTRICTED

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.98)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED PONERS
Civil Information and Education Section
APO 500
15 November 1948
SUCCESSFUL BIDDERS FOR TRANSLATI N RIGHTS OF FOREIGN BOOKS, OFFERED FOR
COMPET ITIVE BIDS 20 OCTOBER 1948, ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1. ADHINISTRATION OF THE MODERN SEC IDARY SCHOOL, by Edmonscn, Roemer and Bacon.
Dogaku Sha, Tokyo.
16.6% straight; no advence royalty; 15,000 cop es at ¥500 each.
2. APPLIED NUCLEAR PHYSICS, by Errest Pollard and W. L. Davidson.
Hokuryukan Co., Tokyo.
12% straignt; no advance roy lty; 3,000 copies ut ¥250 each.
3. CAUSES OF CATASTROPHES; FARTHGLAKES, VOLCANOTS, TEDAL MAVES AND HURRICANES,
by Lewis Donald Loet.
Kamakura Shobo, Tokyo,
9% on first 10,000 copies and 17° thereafter; ¥10,000 advance royalty;
20,000 copies at ¥240 each.
4. CELLULOSE CHEMISTRY, by E i) Hauser.
Boshoku Zasshi Sha, Osa.
9% on first 10,000 copies end 10% thereafter; 10,000 advance royalty;
3,500 cop1es at ¥1,000 each.
5. CHEMISTRY AND TECHNOLOGY OF PLASTICS, by Raymond Nauth.
Kokuritsu Shoin, Tokyo.
8.5% on first 5,000 copies and 15.5% thereafter; ¥5,000 advance royalty;
20,000 copies at ¥500 each.
6. CHEMISTRY OF PULP AND PAPER-MAKING, by E. Sutermeister.
Boshoku Zasshi Sha, Usaka.
8.5% up to 10,000 copies; ¥10,000 advance royalty; 3,000 copies at ¥950
each.
7. CIRCUIT ANALYSIS OF A.C. POVER SYSTEIS, by Edith Clarke.
Corona Book Company, Tokyo.
8% on first 3,000 copies and 10% thereafter; ¥10,000 advance royalty;
8,000 copies at ¥500 each.
8. THE CO-OPERATIVE WAY, by James P. Varbasse.
Kamakura Shobo, Tokyo.
7 on first 10,000 copies and 14% thereafter; ¥10,000 advance royalty;
20,000copies at 130 each.
9. DEM CRACY IN SCHOOL IFE, by The Associntion for Education in Citizenship.
Junshindo Publishing Co., Fukuoka.
15% on first 5,000 copies and 18% therenfter; ¥10,000 advance royalty;
10,000 copies at ¥200.
(OVER)

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
10. ECONOMICS OF POLITICS, by Charles Beard.
Hakujitsu Shoin, Ltd., Tokyo.
17% on first 10,000 cop1ès and 20% thereafter; ¥10,000 advance royalty;
30,000 copies at ¥120 each.
11. ELECTRIC MOTORS IN INDUSTRY, by D. K. Shoults and C. J. Rife.
Ohm Sha, Ltd., Tokyo.
12% on first 8,000 copies and 15% thereafter; ¥10,000 advance royalty;
8,000 copies at ¥590 each.
12. ELECTROMAGNET IC ENGINEERING, by Ronnld King.
Tenchi Shobo, Osaka.
8% on first 5,000 copies and 10% thereafter; 10,000 advance royalty;
10,000 copi0s at 600 cnch.
13. ELECTR NS, PHOTONS, PROTONS,NEUTR NS, MESOTRONS AND COSMIC RAYS, by Robert
Hillikan.
Shokoku Sha, Tokyo.
17% straight; ¥10,000 advanic royalty; 3,000 copies at ¥400.each.
14. ELEMENTARY NUCLEAR THEORY, by Hans Bethe.
Hutaba Sha, Tokyo,
7% on first 8,000 copies and 19% thereafter; no advanec royelty; 25,000
copics at 100 cach.
15. LEMENTS OF POLICE SCIENCE, by Rollin Porkins.
Minsei Shoin, Tokyo.
14% on first 30,000 copics and 15% thereafter; ¥5,000 advance royalty;
30,000 copies at ¥500 ench.
16. EVIDENCE HAIDBOOK FOR POLICE, by Franklin Kreml.
Minsei Shoin, Tokyo.
16% on first 30,000 copics and 17% theroafter; ¥10,000 advanco royalty;
30,000 copies at ¥140 cach.
17. EXPERIMENTAL ELECTRONICS, by Ralph Muller and others.
Ohm Sha, Ltd., Tokyo.
12% on first 8,000 copies and 15% thereefter; ¥10,000 advance royalty;
8,000 copies at ¥490 cach.
18. FARMERS OF THE WORLD, by Brunner, Saundors and Esmingor.
Shoyo Shoin, Tokyo.
7% on first 10,000 copies and 28% thorcaftor; ¥5,000 advance royalty;
20,000 copics at ¥250 cnch.
19. FRENCH LABOR FR M THE POPULAR FRONT T) THE LIBERATI N, by Honry W. Ehrmann.
Sokai Bungaku Sha, Kyoto.
135 straight; ¥30,000 ndvance royalty; 10,000 copics at ¥500 oach.
20. FUNDAMENTALS OF OPTICAL, ENGINEERING, by Donald Jacobs.
Corona Book Co., Takyo.
6% on first 3,000 copies and 7% thorcafter up to 10,000; ¥10,000 advance
royalty; 6,000 copies at ¥400 cach.
2.
(OVER)

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.98)
21. FUNDAMENTALS OF PUBLIC SCHOOL ADHI ISTRATI N, by Ward Roeder.
Junshindo Publishing Co., Fukuoka.
5% on first 5,000 copies and 10% thorenfter; ¥5,000 advance royalty;
10,000 copies at ¥500ench.
22. GLASS GIANT F PALOMAR, by David O. Woodbury.
Kinu Shobo, Tokyo.
15.3% strnight; ¥15,000 advance royalty; 8,000 copies at ¥700 each.
23. GUIDE T, I ITERATURE OF MATHEMATICS AND PHYSICS, by Nathan Parke.
Shiryo Sha, Ltd., Tokyo.
7.6% up to 10,000 cop1es; ¥4,000 advance r.yalty; 3,000 copies at ¥400
each.
24. INTRODUCTION To PHYSICAL EDICATTol, by Eugono Nixon and Fredorick Cozens.
Dogaku Sha, Tokyo.
16.6% straight; no advanco ruyalty; 15,000 copies at ¥230 each.
25. MODERN OPERAT IONAL HATHEMATICS II ENGINEERING, by Ruel V. Churohill.
Shokoku Sha, Tokyo.
20% straight; ¥20,000 advancc royalty; 20,000 copies at ¥350 each.
26. NATURE AND PREVENTIoN OF PLANT DISEASES, by Kennoth Chester.
Hokuryuknn Co., Tokyo.
13% straight; no advanco royalty; 3,000 copies ut ¥780 cach.
27. THE OFFICE SUPERVISOR: HIS RELATION T : PERS NS AND TO  RK, by HenrY NiloB
and M. H. C. Niles.
Daimaru Shuppan Insatsu K-bushiki Knishn, Osaka.
7.2% up to 10,000 copies; ¥45,000 advanco r yalty; 5,000 copies at ¥250
each.
28. ONE FOUT IN HEAVEN, by Hartzoll Spence.
Sokai Bungaku Sha, Kyoto.
15.5% straight; ¥30,000 advance royalty; 15,000 copies at ¥350 ench.
29. PLASTIC WORKING OF METALS AND NON-FETALLIC MATERIALS IN PRESSES, by E. V.
Crano.
Shiryo Sha, Ltd., Tokyo.
12.6% up to 10,000 copies and 15.6% thereafter; ¥5,000 advance royalty;
15,000 copios at ¥500 each.
30. REFRIGERATION ENGINEERING, by H. J. MncIntire.
Machinery Sha, Tokyo.
5% on first 3,000 copies and 5.5% therenfter up to 10,000 copies; ¥5,000
advance royalty; 3,000 copics at ¥500.
31: STAT ISTICAL ADJUSTMENT O DATA, by . Edward Deming.
Akademia Press, Tokyo.
6.8% n first 5,000 copies nnd 8.5% thereaftor up to 10,000; ¥5,000 advance
royalty; 10,000 copice at ¥350 ench.
3
(OVER)

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.97)
32. STATISTICAL METHODS IN RESEARCH AND PRODUCTION, by Owon Davios.
*Keio Shuppan Sha, Tokyo.
12.6% straight; ¥10,000 advance; 5,000 copics at ¥250 ench. (Contingent
on acceptance of bid by British copyright proprictor.)
33. TO THE LIGHTHOUSE, by Virginia Woolf.
Ondori Sha, Ltd., Tokyo.
13.1% on first 10,000 copies and 26.2% thercaftor; 10,000 advance royalty:
30,000 copies at 200 cach.
34. THDORY OF RESONANCE AND ITS APPLICATION TO ORGANIC CHENISTRY, by GGOrge
Wheland.
Kokuritsu Shoin, Tokyo.
10% on first 5,000 copics nd 15% thereafter; ¥5,000 advanco royalty;
20,000 copies at ¥250 cach.
35. TRANSPORTATION, A MEASURE ENT OF CIVILIZATI N, by the WoSti ghouse Educationul
Foundation.
Shin Nippon Tosho Co., )saka.
8.6% up t, 10,000 copics; ¥5,000 advance roya7ty; 10,000 copics at ¥200
ench.
36. ULTRA HIGH-FREQUEUCY TECHNIQUES, by John Brainerd.
Tenchi Shobo, Osaka
8% on first 5,000 copics and 10% therenfter; 10,000 advanco royalty;
10,000 corics at 700 cach.
37. WEATHER ANALYSIS AND FORECASTING, by Sverro Pettorsson.
Iwanami Shoten, Tokyo.
16% straight; no advance r. yalty; 5,000 copies at ¥300 cach volumo (2 vol-
umes).
38. WOOD TECHNOLOGY, by Harry D. Ticmann.
Hokuryukan Co., Tokyo.
7% up to 10,000 copics; no advance r yalty; 3,000 copics at ¥250 each.
39. WONDERFUL ADVENTURES OF PAUL. BUNYAN, by Louis Untormeyer.
Koshi Shobo, Tokyo.
21% straight; no advance royalty; 20,000 copics at ¥100 each.
-0-
4

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.95)
Rm/R
STAMZARD POBM NO. 64
TO
: NA - Mr. BA hop
DATE: March 21, 194
Central
RM/R
This Document Must Be Returned to
iles
FROM : NA - Mr. HemmendingerU
SUBJECT: Copyrights.
I recommend that you approve the attached draft cable to SCAP.
Mr. Greenwald of IR has been designated to work with Mr. Thresher of the
United Kingdom in a Sub-committee of the FEC on a copyrights paper. The object
of the cable is to get SCAP's views on what, if anything, should go into such
a paper. SCAP may reply that he has epened-or reopended the copyrights office
and sees no problem that requires FEC action. In that case this Government. would
presumably take the same position in the FEC. With respect to patents,howeyer,
SCAP desired to have a FEC policy on the restoration of previous rights, and 
may desire the same with respect to copyrights.
894.544/3-2149
Mr. Greenwald has clearly in mind that the United States may not wish to
consider in force the l905 Treaty which does not give our nationals any rights
with respect to translations. He has thought it unnecessary to call SCAP's
attention to this point.
8
CS/CVE
P
894.544/3.2149
4
Rev

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.94)
Rnu/R
RESTRICTED
DRAFT CABLE TO SCAP
Subcommittee FEC preparing copyright paper: Would
appreciate ur views and plans re reestablishment copyright
protection in Japan for UN nationals. In view reopening
Jap Pat Off and recent interpretation of SCAp Circular No. 2,
Jan 14, 1949, permitting conclusion of license agreements
between Jan and foreign holders Jap patents, is similar
action re reopening Copyright Off and licensing foreign
copyrights contemplated? Present draft FEC paper includes
only provisions on restoretion copyrights lost during war
similar to patent restoration provisions FEC 284. Ur
suggestions re FEC paper requested.
RESTRICTED
Jos.
RCD
NA
ITP:IR:JAGreenwald:sl
L/B
3-14-49
1

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.88)
MLory
DRAFT CABLF TO SCAP
Would appreciate answer fol inquiry by Natl Foreign
rade Council: UOTF Is it possible to renew trade-marks
in Japan ownel by American nationals registered prior to
the war and not canc 1lei or lapsed d ring the war? UNQUOTE.
no-now
Catte witedramn boy couret I
1 secaid.
Tele.
Mmarch 31, 1949
RD Jmy.l.
ITP:IR:J Aghtman:prg
L
NA
3-21-49

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.95)
SUBJECT OR
FILE NO
894.54211/3-1546
31/52
DATE DUE
DATE OF
3/15/46
Letter
DOC. NO
SECURITY CLASB.
/31/52
DATE/CHARGED
Marks + Clerk
FROM
K0ply 3/28/46
ENCLOSURES
CHARGE TO
TMaurer
(22lv)
OFFICE
SYMBOL
HE
Form DS-933a (9-1-51)
(Signature)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.92)
14.5441
SUBJECT 
DATE DUE
FILE NO.
5/18/s 2
W)/./11348
DATÉ OF
DOC. NO.
SECURITY CLASS.
DATE CHARGED
4/18/52
r
FROM
TaN.
ENCLOSURES
CHARGE TO
OFFICE
SYMBOL
(Signature)
Form DS-933a (9-1-51)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.97)
FEB 101948
In reply refer to
Lo/c 894.544/1-1348
894.544bAvh8,8W.
My dear Mr. Davis:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of January 13, 1948,
with regard to your claim against the Japanese Government for alleged
infringement of the copyright in your book, Japan. the Air Menace of
the Pacific, as a result of its unauthorised publication in Japan in
1932.
The establishment of procedures for filing claims against Japan
must await the enactment of pertinent legislation by the Congress or the
conclusion of the peace treaty or other agreement with Japan. No indi-
cation can be given at this time of the classes of claims against Japan
for which settlement may be ultimately provided.
A number of bills were introduced in the first session of the
Eightieth Congress on the subject of war claims. Extensive hearings
JEFFEI
on the bills were held by the House Committee on Interstate end Foreign
Commerce which, on July 17, 1947, reported HR 4044 favorably (House
Report Nc. 976). The bill was passed by the House of Representatives
on January 26, 1948. It now awaits action by the Senate.
R
Sincerely yours,
一
S
-1348
OGS/V
For the Secretary of State:
Benedict M. English
Assistant Legal Adviser
894544
Mr. Warren Jefferson Davis,
929 Citizens National Bank Building,
1-1348
0 1948 RM
CaT
Le/C:CAFraleigh:tp
2/9/48

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.96)
3
WARREN JEFFERSON DAVIS
COUNSELOR AT LAW
RECEIVED
13 January 1948.
929 CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK BLDG
LOS ANGELES 19, CAL.
DEPT. OF STATE
MICHIGAN 3481
UC/R
LEGAL
894.
AERONAUTICAL
LEGAL CONSULTANT
JAN 22 1948
DEPINENT  STATE
My dear Mr. Shaner:-
Relative to my claim against the Japanese
Government, with which you are familiar, has any procedure
894.544DAV
been devised by the State Department for the use of claimants
who have claims pending against enemy countries. A press
release, dated August 16, 1946 stated that the State, War,
Justice and avy Departments were devising such procedure.
but I have had no word from the Department since the claim
was originally filed on 28 October 1932.
Claim was filed by me wi th Stanley K. Hornbeck and
Wallace McClure, representing the State Department, for infringe-
ment of copyright by the Japanese Government, covering my book
"Japan, the Air Menace of the Pacific". From the time of first
publication in Japan, 13 April, 1932, to 8 July, 1932, 81 edi-
tions (81,000 copies) of my book appeared, and over 500,000
copies altogether were sold. Some of the material was protected
by international copyright (See statement filed with the State
Depar tment 30 December 1933).
On 4 February 1942. I addressed communications to
Mr. Hornbeck and Mr. McClure, to which I had no answer.
On 18 December 1945, I communicated with Mr. Edwin W.
Pauley, while he was representing the State Department in Japan,
suggesting the impounding of Japanese credits in this country in
IS
sufficient amounts to cover claims of American citizens against
-0
Japan.
CD
On 10 August 1946, Senator Inowland contacted the State
8
Department in my behalf, and was advised that claim should be
filed. Of course this had been done years before.
Certainly by this time we should have had enabling
legislation to cover such claims. There was one attempt on the
part of the Interior Department, on the order of the Eilender-
Sumners Bill, to provide compensation for Japanese losses during
the wartime evacuation of Japanese from the Pacific Coast. Ima-
gine indemnification for a purely military necessity, which
would only add appreciably to our already staggering public
Ala
have been met in full.
13 1943
Rov.
B.r.T.

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
I would appreciate it if you will let me know
the status of these claims against Japan, or if you will
have someone in the State Department who may be handling
the matter write me concerning same.
With kind personal regards,
Sinterely yours,
D-M
W. Jefferson Davis
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Attention: Mr. Shaner, Special Attorney.

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.96)
SUDJECT GR
894.544
DATE DUE
FILE NO.
5/18/52
11.448
DATÉ OF DOG
DQC. NO.
SECURITY CLASS.
DATE CHARGED
4/14/52
FROM
ENCLOSURES
CHARGE TO
OFFICE
SYMBOL
Form DS-933a (9-1-51)
(Signature)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.97)
DeIR
In reply refor to
NOV201940
LC 894.544 Davis,
894.544 DAVIS
W. Jerferson/1l-448
My dear Mr. Davis:
The Department has received your letter of November 4,
1948, with regard to claims against the Japanese Government
for alleged infringement of the copyright on your book, Japan,
the Air Menece of the Pacifig, as a result of its unauthorised
publication in Japan in 1932.
/11-448
There is enclosed for your information the Department's
memorandum of November 3, 1948, regarding the War Claims Act
JEFFERSON
of 1948. As is indicated in the enclosed memorandum, the
Department will retain your letter in its files for possible
future examination by the War Claims Comrission.
Sincerely yours,
For the Acting Secretary of State:
CS/M
Benedict M. English
894.544
Assistant Legal Adviser
Enclosure:
Memorandum, Hovember 3, 1948.
Mr. W. Jefferson Davie,
929 Citizens National Bank Building,
Los Angeles 13, California.
1-448
LsL/C:CAFraleigh:mcd
11/19/48

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.95)
ACTION
is assigned to
WARREN JEFFERSON DAVIS
NOV231948
COUNSELOR AT LAW
32& CITIZENS NATIONAE BANK BLDG.
DLP.
LÓS ANGELES 13. CAL.
15 dvepber 1948
MICHIGAN 3481
Ack t mems pent
NOV 1 01508
AERONAUTICAL
LEGAL CONSULTANT
Zxei
1-1348
My dear Mr. Shaner:-
L
In further reference to my letter of
P
13 January 194c, will you please advise whst branch of the
state Department is handling clains of american citizens
against Japan. I refer to my claim against the Japanese
Government for infrin ement of copyright by the Japanese
Governaent, covering my hook, "Japan, the Air Menace of the
Pacific. Statement of claim Was filed vith the State De-
Has anything been done as to impounding of Japa-
nese credits in this country to cover these claims of Ameri-
can citizens against Japan?
I would appreciate your suggestion as to what
branch of the Department, or individual, may be in charge of
tuese matters, so tuat my claim may be revitalized, and put
in shape for nundling.
with kind personal regards,
0636
sincerely yours,
The Honorable,
. Jefferson Davis
The secretary of State,
Washington, D. .
DEC 1 1948
11-448
FILFD
Attention: r. Shaner, pecial Attorney.
D-1
