894.20212 Military Affairs. Army. Army Posts. Fortifications. Defenses. Military Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., Military Activities Of Japan In Mexico Including Gathering Of Information. Espionage. Propaganda., January (File 894)
ID: 894.20212-894   Pages: 531   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.20212-military-affairs-army-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
S'ANFORD UNIVERSITY
DEPARTMENT OF HISTORY
STANPORD UNIVERSITY, CALIPORNIA
Index Bureau
BEUHLVED
January 5,1931
JAN 17 1931
Dept. of Stato
ausid
894.20212/307
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1931.
4
JAN 12 1931
Dr. Tyler Dennett
Historical Adviser
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
January
agc
My dear Dr. Dennett:
3451
In a study that I am pursuing relative
to Magdalena Bay and the Lodge Resolution I find
814.
repeated references to a denial by both the Japanese
and the Mexican governments of any hidden designs.
The volumes of Foreign Relations for the years l9ll
and 1912 do not contain these statements, or, for
that matter, any reference to the entire subject.
It may be that these denials were oral, but if they
were not, I should greatly aporeciate securing copies
of them, or any other correspondence, not already
published, relative to the subject. I am of course
familiar with the material published in the Senate
Documents for that period.
I shall naturally be glad to re iburse you
for any expense incident to this work.
JAN 2 J 1931
Very sincerely yours,
FILED
Thomas Q. Bailey

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
In reply refer to
17 1931.
January
894.202
Professor Thomas A. Bailey,
Stanford University,
Stanford University, California.
sir:
With referenoe to your letter of January 5, 1931,
relating to the Magdalema Bay inoident in 1912, you
are informed that a searoh of this Department's files
fails to disclose any written communications on the
subject erchanged, at that time at least, between the
Governments conoerned.
From the records it appears that on or about April 5,
1912, official statements were given for publication to
the NEW YORK TIMES and the UNITED PRESS by the Japanese
Government and the Mexioan Government respectively; that
these statements were, on the part of Japan, orally con-
firmed both by the Japanese Embassy in Washington and by
the

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.92)
-2
the Fereign Office in Tokyo; and that subsequently the
Japanese Ambassador, with his Government's authorisatiom
and merely for the information of the Department of State,
orally made an unreserved and categorical denial of the
rumored purohase of land at Magdalena Bay by the Japanese
Government or by a Japanese oompany, oharacterising the
repart as entirely sensational and utterly without any
foundation whatever.
This letter is written for your information and it
1s requested that you do not quote or refer to its contents
as coming from the Department of State.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Stanley K. Hornbeok,
Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
ally
RAM.
A true cop of
PEIRBM:ACF:88
FE
HA
the siged orig-
m.m.W
ecw.
inal.
CR
Jen. 18 1931.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
STANFORD UNIVERSITY
IENT OF HISTORY
RECHIVE
STANFORD UNIVERSITY, CALIPORNIA
MAR 8 1 131
MB
DIVIBION OF
March 14, 1931.
Divtsion of
FAR EARTERN AFFAIRE
π
19
Dr. Tyler Dennett,
894.20212/308
Historical Adviser,
ansd
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
fiegc.
I am preparing a volume on Certain Yncidents in
the Pacific Coast diplomacy of the United States, among
which I am including the Magdalena Bay episode (i9l2) and
the resulting Lodge resolution.
Senator Lodge himself wrote some years later that
his resolution had subsequently been invoked by the Depart-
ment of State. The only incident of this nature that I
have been able to find thus far is referred to in the New
York Times for March 22 and 31, 1919. It 1s here stated
that the Department of State,two weeks berore,specifically
referred the California and Mexican Land Company of Los D
Angeles to the Lodge resolution and a message of President
143
FILED
Taft preceding it, the occasion being the rumor that the
company was about to dispose of its holdings in Lower
6
California to Japanese subjects.
9
3
894.20212
I expect to make of this item in preparing my
study, but I should feel a good deal more confident in
citing it if the Department of State were willing to assure
me that the facts here stated are substantially correct.
Naturally, if it is so desired, I would not mention con-
firmation by the Department.
If you know of any other instances when the Lodge
resolution was invoked, I should greatly apnreciate your
suggesting them to me.
Thanking you for past favors, I am,
Very sincerely yours,
Thowas @. Bailey
Assistant Professor of History
TAB:T

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.94)
March 301981.
894.202
Professor Thomas A. Bailey.
Department of History,
Stanford University, Oalifornia.
2
1
Receipt is acknowledged of your letter of Marah 14,
0
1981, relating to a statement whioh appeared in the NEw
8
YORK TMES for March 22 and 31, 1919, to the effeet that
the Department of State,, about March 16, 1919, speeif1-
cally referred the California and Mexican Land Company of
Los Angeles to the Lodge resolution and to a message of
President Taft prior thereto, - the occesion being the
rumor that the Company was sbout to dispose of ite hold-
ings in Lower California to Japanese subjeets. You re-
quest that you be informed whether the faots above stated
are substentially gorreet and whether there were any
other instances in which the Lodge resolution wee invoked.
The recorde of the Department shew that on March 21.143
1919, the Department addressed to a oompany in Los Angeles
with a name similar to that ebove mantioned a letter re-
lating to a large traet of land whioh it was reported that
the

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.94)
一2-
the esmpany was endesvoring to sell to a Japaeme eny.
with the above mentiened letter the Department em-
elesed, for the company's information, a sopy of Senate
Docmment Mo. 694, 62d Congress, 2d Session, and a copy of
Senate Repert No. 996 (same Session), both of which deem-
mente were stated to have a bearing on the poliey of this
Government with regard to the subjeet umder dieeussien.
I sssume that you have access to eopies of these pablie
doouments.
with referenee to your second questien, while no ex-
haustive search of the Department's files has been mmde,
a eursory examination dimseloses that copies of the above
similar way to a person in San Praneisco, who, with sume
associates, was interested in several large traets of
land in the southwestern part of Mexico, one of which
tracts they expected to seleet for cultivating and cole-
similar letter was addressed to & pereon in Mew York Oity,
who was interested in a traet of about 20,000 aores of
land situsted in the State of Sonora which was estimated
to contain several hundred million tons of coal which it
was intimated might be turned over to a Japanese myndi-
was quoted in a letter sent to another person in New York
0ity

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.92)
-3-
Gity welating to a traet of land, also in the State of
Senora, which it was stated some Japanese residents of
Califernia desired to acquire for colonization purposes.
Although the above list may not be complete, it is
believed that it is sufficient to indicate the weual
praetise of the Department, at least at that time, in
dealing with the question suggested by your letter under
reply.
This letter is written for your information and it
is requested that you do not quote or refer to its eon-
tents as coming from the Department of State.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
SKA
Stanley K. Hornbeek,
Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
the signed or
M
Rsm
m.m.N
FE: RSM: EJL
FE
HAME
ecur.Hr
CH

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.95)
DCR
STANFORD UNIVERSITY
TATE
Egs
DEPARTMENT OF HISTORY
Diviaion of
STANFORD UNIVERSITY, CALIPORNIA
FAR EASTERN AFFAN
APR 20 1931
Apri1 13, 1931.
Ir. Stanley K. Hornbeck,
4.20
Chief, Division of Far
MT
Eastern Affairs,
Department of Stote,
Wa sh ington, D.c.
308
My dear Mr. Hornbeck:
894.20212/309
This will acknowledge your letters of January
17, 1931 and Merch 30, 1931, which you so grociously
wrote me in response to my requests reg rding Mag-
dalena Bay. I found the information thet you in-
closed of very great value, and I am exceedingly
indebted to you for it. you may, however, be as-
sured that the Deoartpent of State will in no ise
be quoted or referred to in whotever use I shall
make of this meterial.
Very stncorely youre,
Thones Q. Baily
6
2

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.82)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
a1n. 2%/%1
ME:
Du Vive Conrnl mnishi be
instiuc en to repari any
relinbe in formatin he may
obtain bearing upo The th
a falnitn of Thne vemas.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.88)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF MEXICAN AFFAIRS
FE
Mn Harmheeld
Do you att ach
any ingportunce to rivis?
The reporting offich is
a solier m of
indivitual

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.93)
ME
AM LECD
0
124
E
AMERICANCONSULATE,
MF
Mazatlán, S1naloa M6xico, April 18, 1931.
CONFIDENTIAL.
SUBJECT:
Japone Sampams Cruising Along West
1—1055
Coast of México.
ans 'd
4/27/
Yav4 1981.
FAN EASTN AFFAIRS
共
81931
THE HONORABLE
894.20212/310
812.628
APR 1981
THE SECRETARY OFSEA
note
894.20212
WASHINGTON
Stator
SIR:
I have to inform the Department that four
Japanese sampams called at the port of Mazatlán
on March 29, 1931, enroute north into the Gulf
of California.
While these sampams were here the man in
E
charge, Mr. Naotaro Kobayashi, Comisionado del
PLTED
Ministerio Transoceánico del Imperio del Japón,
MAY5
Tampico 29, México, D. F., claimed they had a
concession for pearl fishing along the west coast
of Mexico, and that they were engaged in pearl
fishing, having begun at Acapulco and were working
their way north, it being necessary for them to
put into Mazatlán for provisions and other supplies.
Some of the employees of conmercial houses which
furnished provisions to these sampams went on board
to make delivery of purchases have stated that no
pearl fishing equipment was visible at the time of
their visits on board.
It has been unofficially reported from various
sources, in fact it is a common rumor here that these
boats
ME

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
boats were not interested in pearl fishing, but
were making a survey of the entire west coast,
charting and mapping all coves, inlets and harbors.
It is rumored that these sampams surveyed the coast
north as far as Guaymas, and intended to go farther
up the Gulf of Lower California, and to return down
the east coast of the peninsula of Lower California,
then go north up the west coast of the Peninsula
as far as Ensenada.
Usually when a pearl fishing fleet arrives at
Mazatlán an attempt is made to dispose of some of
their pearls, or at least some of the pearls are
exhibited, but so far as this office has been able
to ascertain no pearls belonging to this fleet were
exhibited; however, that may have been due to the
secretive character of the Japanese. It is possible
that Mr. Naotaro Kobayashi may have a concession
for pearl fishing along the west coast, and they may
have been doing some pearl fishing, but from circum-
stances surrounding their visit here, and to the fact
that they have been visiting every little cove and
inlet, it would appear that the main object of their
expedition was to make a minute and detailed survey
and chart of the entire west coast of México.
Respectfully yours,
E. W. Eaton,
American Vice Consul.
CC:
In quintuplicate to Department.
Single copy to Consulate General.
Single copy to Embassy.
800/862.8
4 Carbon Copi
EWE:IL
copy for noth
DCR:B
rcardron
deatosed 5-5-31

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.95)
ony to American Embassv. Yextco City.
()
May 4 1981.
310
CONFIDENTIAL.
E. W. Eaton, Esquire,
Amerioan Vice Consul,
Mazatlan, Mexioo.
Sir:
The Department has received your oonfidential despatch
894.20212/310
No. 124 of April 18, 1931, reporting that four Japanese
sampans oalled at Mazatlan on Maroh 29, 1931, and that
the man in charge of them asserted that the vessels are
engaged in pearl fishing along the west coast of Mexico.
You add, however, that there are rumors ourrent in
Mazatlan to the effeot that these boats are making a
survey of the entire west coast, charting and mapping all
coves, inlets and harbors.
CONFIDENTIAL FILE
You are instruoted to report to the Department any
reliable information you may obtain bearing upon the
truth or falsity of these rumors.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Apr. 30. 1981.PV
CR
Francis White
812.628/109
Ralm
FE
À true gopy of
the signed orig-

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.97)
894.20212/311

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.97)
AM FECD
2
Office ofthe Attorney General
DIVISION OF
1952
January
251932.
IAN
The Honorable,
13
ganuat
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
894.20212/312
My dear Mr. Secretary:
On November 11, 1931, Mr. T. B. Doolittle, Mounted Customs
Inspector, at Yuma, Arizona, advised an Agent of the Bureau of
Investigation of this Denartment that on or about October 8, 1931,
thirty Japanese engineers landed at Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico, and
had been manping roads over the West Coast of that state, making a
topographical survey of the country. They are equipped with sur-
veyor instruments and are enga ed in preparing maps. No information
is available at this time s to whether these Japanese are Govern-
ment or private engineers, or whether same involves a commercial
enterprise.
The  bove information as forwarded to the Secretary of
the Navy as of possible interest to that Depertment, and under cate
of December 9, 1931, a request vas received from that Deoartment
that further investiration be concucted in this matter. For your
informaticn, a copy of the letter received from the Honorable C. F.
Adams, Secretary of the Navy, is being attached hereto.
The Bureau of Inve: tigation is being authorized to concuct
FILFD
an investigation of this matter, again contacting Mr. Doolittle, the
informant. The investigation to be conducted will, of cource, be
limited to the confines of the United States. The above information
6
is being referred to you as a matter of possible interest to your
3
2
Department.
Very truly youre,
Attorney General.
Enclosure #734834.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
C
0
P
DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY
Y
Office of the Secretary
Washington
9 December 1931
A8-5(311204)
My dear Mr. Attorney General:
Your letter No. R.ST.L. - 235025, of 4 December
has been received by this Department with considerable in-
terest. It would be much appreciated if your special agent
at Phoenix, Arizona, throug bis contacts could furnish
further information concerning the various activities of the
Japanese engineers in Sonora, Mexico. It is particularly
desirable to have information of the areas covered by the
topographical survey. So far the Department has been unable
to locate the town of Cabosca, Sonora. Any information tend-
ing to its definite location woula oe helpful.
Sincerely yours,
C. F. ADAMS (Sga.)
Honorable William D. Mitchell,
Attorney General,
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
6-A
2/EF37/EF44(12-4)
December 9, 1931
MEMORANDUM
RECF
From:
To :
Chief of Naval Operations.
JAN 23 1032
SUBJECT:
Japanese activities in Mexico andDatisvariou
Enclosure:
(a) Secret report from Military Intelligence
Division on Japanese activities inimical to
the United States.
1. The Attorney General has just forwarded the following
information from their special agent in Phoenix, Arizona:
That Louis Collins informant of Mr. Doolittle (Mounted
Customs Inspector, Yuma, Arizona), living at Cabosca. Sonora,
Mexico, stated that on or about October 8, 1931, 30 Japanese
-engineers - landed at Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico, and had
been mapping roads all over the West Coast of the State of
Sonora, Mexico, making a topographical survey of the country.
They are equipred with surveyor instruments preparing maps.
After their arrival at Guaymas, Sonora, they divided in
1
groups of two and three and went in different directions.
Two of these Japanese were stationed at Cabosca, Sonora on
Lower California Bay. Appear to be well educated men, and
talk good Spanish, English and German. Up to November 1,
1931 they were sti11 in Sonora.
2. In connection with this report, attention is invited to
Enclosure (a). A recapitulation of other reports concerning
Japanese activities is as follows:
The Editor of the Seattle Post-Intelligencer furnished
the following information to Arthur Brisbane on 29 August,
193l: The information in question was originally furnished
by Paul Buckley, one of the Directors of the Pacific Coast
Sulphur Comnany of Seattle, Washington. Mr. Buckley from
1914 until 1922 was a Deputy U. S. Marshal stationed at
Dutch Harbor, Unalaska. About 1915 or 1916 a ship wrecked
Japanese crew on Nunidak Island was picked up and brought
down to Dutch Harbor. At an investigation which was con-
ducted by the Captain of the U. S. Coast Guard Cutter the
Japanese disclaimed any knowledge of English. Later on it
was discovered that some of the crew spoke English readily.
amongst whose effects was found a much better chart or map
of Nunidak Island than was in the possession of the Coast
Guard.
In 1931 Mr. Buckley was in Dutch Harbor and encountered
there a Japanese boat which had brought over supplies and
gasoline

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
gasoline for distribution to points along the Aleutian
Islands for a proposed flight from Tokyo to Seattle.
Several of the Japanese connected with this flight were
on steamers with Mr. Buckley on his trips to various points
in Alaska. One claimed to be a Rear Admiral and both he
and the others were constantly studying maps, taking pictures
and making notes on charts both Japanese and U. S. charts.
The Commander Bering Sea Patrol Force reported to the
Treasury Department as of 1 October, 193l, the following
Japanese activities in connection with the proposed good-
wiil flight across the Pacific: A Japanese trawler during
the month of May visited Attu, Atka, and Unalaska. The party
on this trawler showed great familiarity with the water
around Attu, and came in the narrow entrance tc Attu Harbor,
which has a depth of only 14 feet, on a dark night at good
speed. A party was landed at Attu, one of whom was a camera-
man, who took pictures both still and movie until he ran out
of filns. Rock specimens were gathered, but no soundings
were taken although the previous year the Japanese had
sounded out Holtz Bay. During the winter 1929 and 1930 the
Japanese had evidently used the Island of West Semichi near
Attu as the natives found a target there with used cartridges
cases and a Japanese tea cup.
At Atka another party of three was landed consisting of
a correspondent, a Botanist, and a cameraman. The Botanist
was very busy collecting specimens while the cameraman took
pictures from all angles and from the mountains on either
side of the Bay.
At Unalaska a party of four was landed, one of whom was
a correspondent, another represented himself to be an aero-
nautical expert and a Captain in the Japanese Navy, another
a. scientist connected with the Japanese Bureau of Fisheries,
and another professional cameraman. The latter was well
supplied with films for both still and movie picture cameras,
and took pictures during his entire stay of all activities
including the new dock under construction and the arrival
and departure of every vessel, Coast Guard, Mavy or Merchant-
man, also panoramic views were taken from the high mountains
in the Unalaska locality. The Commanding officer of the
trawler had the rank of a Lieutenant-Commander in the Japan-
ese naval reserve, the Chief officer was on detached duty
from one of the large Japanese mercantile lines. It is re-
ported radiomen were also on board who stood continuous
watches and were of a hi er type than is ordinarily found
on a trawler.
The following is an extract from the letter dated 23
March, 1931 of Mr. Armour addressed to the Director of
Naval Intelligence. Four Sampans arrived at Manzanillo on
a

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
a Japanese steamer. These boats were small, too well
fitted out for fishing purposes and had no cold storage
apparatus for fish preservation, and apparently did not
have sufficient capacity for any great quantity of fish.
At the stern of each was a brass column used for housing
propellers. A partially covered theodolite was observed
on one of them. Each boat was manned by a crew of five
Japanese who appeared to be of a type superior to that of
fishermen. They claimed to have a fishing concession in
Mexico which later developed not to be a concession, but
merely a permit similar to that given to sportsmen. These
same boats were encountered later on at Mazatlan and Guaymas,
although they had left Manzanillo prior to Mr. Armour's
departure they did not arrive at Mazatlan until two days
after Mr. Armour's arrival although the yacht of the latter
has a very slow speed.
The Manager of the Royal Hawaiian Corporation, Hilo
Beacn in a letter of 31 December, 1930, to Governor Lawrence
M. Judd, of Hawaii stated as follows: I feel bound to in-
form you that the Government of Japan makes their naval
officers serve two months on these Japanese Sampans upposed
to attend fishing around the Hawaiian Islands. I am keeping
this knowledge as a secret, but there is no question about
it, that it's the truth.
An Intelligence report from the 13th Naval District
dated 9 April 1931 reads as follows: "A Mr. Harb B. Kenoe,
7305 -18th Avenue, N. W., Seattle. Wash., whose character
and loyalty have been investigated with entirely favorable
results made the following report to this office: That
from time to time off the Salmon banks he has noticed
parties of Japanese apparently making surveys of the coast-
line, and that about 9 or 10 March, 1931, he noticed
three Japanese ashore at Cattle Point with a. box like in-
strument mounted on a tripod and a large portable camera.
One was giving readings from the instrument and another
was making notations on what apneared to be a piece of draw-
ing paper, secured on a chart board. Upon being hailed and
asked what they were doin they immediately took down their
instrument, got in their boat and departed in the general
direction of Bellingham.
Similar reports of Japanese activities in Latin America
and the West Indies received from a representative of L. E.
Materman Company of New York are as follows: The activities
took place in the latter part of 1927 and the first part
of 1928 and referred particularly to Puerto Barrios and
Barranquilla, Colombia, Progreso, Yucatan, involving the
areas on both sides of the eastern entrance to the Panama
Cana1.
Hayne Ellis

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.97)
NCR
lidubial
file
F37-EF44(T2-4)
December 9, 1931
le
MEMORANDUM
From:
Director of Naval Intelligence.
To :
Chief of Naval Operations.
SUBJE CT :
Japanese activities in Mexico and at various
points along the Western Coast.
Enclosure:
(a) Secret renort from Military Intelligence
Division on Japanese activities inimical to the
United States.
1. The Attorney General has just forwarded the following
information from their special agent in Phoenix, Arizona:
That Louis Collins informant of Mr. Doolittle (Mounted
Customs Inspector, Yuma, Arizona), living at Cabosca, Sonora,
Mexico, stated that on or about October 8, 1931, 30 Japanese
-engineers - landed at Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico, and had
been mapping roads all over the West Coast of the State of
Sonora, Mexico, making a topographical survey of the country.
They are equipped with surveyor instruments preparing maps.
After their arrival at Guaymas, Sonora, they divided in
groups of two and three and went in different directions.
Two of these Japanese were stationed at Cabosca, Sonora on
Lower California Bay. Appear to be well educated men. and
talk good Spanish, English and German. Up to November 1,
1931 they were stil1 in Sonora.
2. In connection with this report, attention is invited to
Enclosure (a). A recapitulation of other reports concerning
Jananese activities is as follows:
The Editor of the Seattle Post-Intelligencer furnished
the following information to Arthur Brisbane on 29 August,
193l: The information in question was originally furnished
by Paul Buckley, one of the Directors of the Pacific Coast
Sulphur Company of Seattle, Washington. Mr. Buckley from
1914 until 1922 was a Deputy U. S. Marshal stationed at
Dutch Harbor, Unalaska. About 1915 or 1916 a ship wrecked
Japanese crew on Nunidak Island was picked up and brought
down to Dutch Harbor. At an investigation which was con-
ducted by the Captain of the U. S. Coast Guard Cutter the
Japanese disclained any knowledge of English. Later on it
was discovered that some of the crew spoke English readily,
amongst whose effects was found a much better chart or map
of Nunidak Island than was in the possession of the Coast
Guard.
In 1931 Mr. Buckley was in Dutch Harbor and encountered
there a Japanese boat which had brou ht over supplies and
gasoline

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
gasoline for distribution to points along the Aleutian
Islands for a proposed flight from Tokyo to Seattle.
Several of the Japanese connected with this flight were
on steamers with Mr. Buckley on his trips to various points
in Alaska. One claimed to be a Rear Admiral and both he
and the others were constantly studying maps, taking pictures
and making notes on charts both Japanese and U. S. charts.
The Commander Bering Sea Patrol Force reported to the
Treasury Department as of 1 October, 193l, the following
Japanese activities in conne ction with the proposed good-
will flight across the Pacific: A Japanese trawler during
the month of May visited Attu, Atka, and Unalaska. The party
on this trawler showed great familiarity with the water
around Attu, and came ir the narrow entrance to Attu Harbor,
which has a depth of only 14 feet, on a dark night at good
speed. A party was landed at Attu, one of whom was a camera-
man, who took pictures both still and movie until he ran out
of films. Rock specimens were gathered, but no soundings
were taken although the previous year the Japanese had
sounded out Holtz Bay. During the winter 1929 and 1930 the
Japanese had evidently used the Island of West Semichi near
Attu as the natives found a target there with used cartridges
cases and a Japanese tea cup.
At Atka another party of three was landed consisting of
a correspondent, a Botanist, and a cameraman. The Botanist
was very busy collecting specimens while the cameraman took
pictures from all angles and from the mountains on either
side of the Bay.
At Unalaska a party of four was landed, one of whom was
a correspondent, another represented himself to be an aero-
nautical expert and a Captain in the Japanese Navy, another
a scientist connected with the Japanese Bureau of Fisheries,
and another professional cameraman. The latter was well
supplied wi th films for both still and movie picture cameras,
and took pictures during his entire stay of all activities
including the new dock under construction and the arrival
and departure of every vescel, Coast Guard, Navy or Merchant-
man, also panoramic views were taken from the high mountains
in the Unalaska locality. The Commanding officer of the
trawler had the rank of a Lieutenant-Commander in the Japan-
ese naval reserve, the Chief officer was on detaclhed duty
from one of the large Japanese mercantile lines. It is re-
ported radiomen were also on board who stood continuous
watches and were of a higher type than is ordinarily found
on a trawler.
The following is an extract from the letter dated 33
March, 1931 of Mr. Armour addressed to the Director of
Naval Intelligence. Four Sampans arrived at Manzanillo on
a

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
a Japanese steamer. These boats were small, too well
fitted out for fishing murposes and had no cold storage
apparatus for fish preservation, and apparently did not
have sufficient capacity for any great quantity of fish.
At the stern of each was a brass column used for housing
propellers. A partially covered theodolite was observed
on one of them. Each boat was manned by a crew of five
Japanese who appeared to be of a type superior to that of
fishermen. They claimed to have a fishing concession in
Mexico which later developed not to be a concession, but
merely a permit similar to that given to sportsmen. These
same boats were encountered later on at Mazatlan and Guaymas,
although they had left Man anillo prior to Mr. Armour's
departure they did not arrive at Mazatlan until two days
after Mr. Armour's arrival although the yacht of the latter
has a very slow speed.
The Manager of the Royal Hawaiian Corporation, Hilo
Beach in a letter of 31 December, 1930, to Governor Lawrence
M. Judd, of Hawaii stated as follows: I feel bound to in-
form you that the Government of Japan makes their naval
officers serve two months on these Japanese Sampans supposed
to attend fishing around the Hawaiian Islands. I am keeping
this knowledge as a secret, but there is no question about
it, that it's the truth.
An Intelligence report from the 13th Maval District
dated 9 April 1931 reads as follows: "A Mr. Harb B. Kenoe,
7305 -l8th Avenue, N. W.. Seattle, Wash., whose character
and loyalty have been investigated with entirely favorable
results made the followin report to this office: That
from time to time off the Salmon banks he has noticed
parties of Japanese apparently makin surveys of the coast-
line, and that about 9 or 10 March, 1931, he noticed
three Japanese ashore at Cattle Point with a box like in-
strument mounted on a tripod and a large portable camera.
One was givin: readings from the instrument and another
was making notations on what an eared to be a piece of draw-
ing paper, secu ed on a chart board. Upon being heiled and
asked what they were doing they im ediately took down their
instrument, got in their boat and departed in the general
direction of Bellinsham.
Similar reports of Japanese activities in Latin America
and the est Indies received from a representative of L. E.
Taterman Company of Hew York are as follows: The activities
took place in the latter part of 1927 and the first part
of 1928 and referred particularly to Puerto Barrics and
Barranquilla, Colombia, Progreso, Yuctan, invo ving the
areas on both sides of the eastern entrance to the Panama
Canal.
Hayne Ellis

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.95)
510
January
15 1952.
CONFIDENTIAL
The Honorable
J. Reuben Clark, Jr.,
American Ambassador,
Mexioo City.
Sir:
The Department enoloses herewith a oopy of a letter
dated January 7, 1932, from the Attorney General, togother
89
with a copy of its enolosure, a dommunication from the Navy
Department, both in relation to a report that on or about
2
October 8, 1931, thirty Japanese engineers landed at Guaymas,
O
2
Sonora, Mexioo, and thereafter engaged in mapping roads and
一
2
making topographical surveys along the west coast of Sonora.
A copy of the Department's reply to the Attorney General
2
is also enclosed.
The Department would appreoiate receiving any infor-
mation whioh you may be able discreetly to obtain bearing
al
upon this report.
Conidente
There is enolosed likewise a copy of a confidential
memorandum on alleged Japanese activities which was re-
cently handed to an officer of the Department by the Direotor
of Naval Intelligence, Navy Department, who requested at
the time that the American Consuls on the west coast of
Mexico be instruoted to report any Japanese activities
in their respeotive consular distriots which might come
to their attention. Aocordingly, if you feel that such
aotion

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.95)
- 2 -
motion would serve any useful purpose, you are mnthorized
to issue confidential instruotions in the premises to the
appropriate Consuls. Their reports should, of course, be
sent both to the Embassy and the Department.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
W. R. Castle, Jr.
Enclosures:
From Department of Justice,
dated January 7, 1932, w1th
enclosure;
Confidential Memorandum,
dated December 9, 1931;
Letter to Department of Justice.
894.20212/312
FE
Buax
m.m1d.
Jan. 14052.
OR

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.93)
January 15 1952.
In reply refer to
ME 894.20213/312
The Honorable
The Attorney General.
Sir:
I have received your letter of January 7, 1932,
transmitting a copy of a communication from the Navy
Department, concerning a report received by your Depart-
ment that on or about October 8, 193l, thirty Japanese
894.20212/31
engineers landed at Guaymas, Sonora, Merico, and thereafter
engaged in mapping roads and making topographical surveys
along the west coast of Sonora. It is noted that you are
endeavoring to obtain additional information regarding
the matter from Mr. T. B. Doolittle, Moumted Customs
Inspeotor at Yuma, Arizona, on whose statements the report
2
appears to have been based.
This Department will appreciate receiving any addi-
tional information which you may obtain with reference
to the reported occurrences.
Very truly yours,
2
mt082
For the Secretary of State:
. R. Castle, Jr.
Ralm.
to
FE
Under Secretary.
1.m, H.
ecat

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.96)
ME
EE
No. 149.
AMERIC'AN CONSULATE
Mazatlán, Sinaloa, México, June 13, 1931.
312
CONFIDENTIAL.
SUBJECT: Ja anese sampans.
The Honorable
DIVISION OF
MEXICAN AFFAIRS,
The Seoretary of tate,
washin ton.
lile
894.20212/313
Sir:
Department of State.
PNR
I have the honor to acknowlea recei t of the
Department's confi ential instruetion of May 4, l9al,
filea2.628/109, in reply to my confidential despatch
No. 124 of A ril 18, 19u1, reportin" that four Japanese
sampans called in Mazatlán on March 29, 1931, which
were presumed to be engaged in pearl fishing, but there
were rumors to the effect that these vessels were en-
gaged in charting and mapping coves, inlo ts and habors
of the west coast of México.
In the above instruction this office is instruct-
ed to report to the Department any reliable information
which may be obtained relative to the truth or falsity
of these rumors.
The first information received by this office ro-
/ILED
lative to these sampans was furnished by Mr. Allison V.
Armour, owner of the Yacht UToWANA which called in this
port on March 28, 1931, with a commission sponsored by
en route to Guaymas and other points in the Gulf of
California

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
California. This ye cht returned to Mazatlán on April
11, 1931, from points along the Gulf of California and
further reported that during the voyage up the west
coast of México these sampans vere encountered at Aca-
pulco, Manzanillo, Mazatlán and Guaymas, and that sus-
picions had been aroused by the fact that no fishing
paraphernalia could be seen aboard these sampas, and
to the fact that they ere truvelin: leisurely up the
coast.
A few cays after 'he depurture of the yacht UTOWANA
an opportunity was had to make an in uiry of a party of
three native fishermen from Puerto Vallarta, Jalisco,
and San Blas, Nayarit, relative to the mov ements of these
sam ans. These fishermen stated that they put into both
the above ports, remaining ap roximately one day in each
port, and that soundings were taken, and that one of the
Japanese on board was drawing maps while in the above
ports, and that photographs of the harbors were taken
from these sampans. Unconfirmed information has been
received to the effect that these sampans also put into
the port of Altata, inuloa.
Discreet inquiry has been made of the Port Captain,
Mazatlán, relative to the business of these sampans in
Mexican waters, and he informed this office to the ef-
fect that the man in charge of this expedition, Naotaro
Kobayashi, was in possession of a concession from the
Moxican Govemment to fish in the waters of the northern
part of the Gulf of Calif ornia, and that when these sam-
pans left this port clearance papers were issued to them
for

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
for the port of Guaymas. He also stated that these
sampans went to Acapulco to pick up Naotaro Kobayashi,
who arrived there by automobile from México City, and
that they were traveling leisurely up the coast to the
fishing crounds at the northern end of the Gulf of Cali-
fornia. Apparently the Port Captain is not under the
impression that these sampans had any other motive than
that of fishing.
This office has no further evidence on hich to
base its suspicions other than that supplied by Mr. Armour,
and the three fishermen, and as the officials do not ap-
pear to be conizant of any motive for these sampans being
in these waters, other than for fishing purposes, it does
not appear that this office can further cubstantiate its
suspicions in this matter.
It should be taken into consi deration, however, that
these four sampans ith approximately l2 men, evidently
sailed from a west coast port of the United States for
Acapulco to meet Mr. Naotaro Kobayashi and take him up
the coast to the northern part of the Gulf of California,
and that thim voyage of over 3,ooo miles was much more
expensive than if Mr. Kobayashi had gone by train from
México City to Guaymas, or some other convenient port
on the Gulf, where these sampans could have met him and
taken him to the fishing grounds.
Respectfully

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.96)
- 4 -
Respectfully yours,
Laton,
Ame rican Vice Consui.
800/862.8
Received
EWE:ML
CC: In quintuplicate to Department.
Copy to the Emtassy, sent directly.
Copy to the Consulste General.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.98)
ILITARY INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
WAR DEPARTMENT
Latin American Section
Secretary of War
Assistant Secretary of War
Assistant Secretary of War (Air)
G-1
03
G-4
War Plans Division
Statistics Branch
Adjutant General's Dept.
Army Industrial College
Army War College
Air Corps (Liaison Officer)
Cavalry
Chemical Warfare Service
Coast Artillery Corps
Corps of Engineers
Command & General Staff School
Field Artillery
Finance
Infantry
Inspector General's Dept.
Insular Affairs
Judge Advocate General's Dept.
Militia Bureau
Office of Naval Intelligence
Ordnance Dept.
Quartermaster General's Dept.
Signal Corps
Surgeon General's Office
State Dept.:
Eastern Europe
Western Europe
Near East
Latin America
Far East
Mexican Affairs
Commerce Dept.:
Foreign & Domestic Commerce
Aeronautics
10
For your information and file
Note and return
Note and send to

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.90)
02
RHS/ARL
2/1766-078
313
p
CONFIDENTIA
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
IAN 1 3 1932
Subjeot: Japanese Aotivities on the West Coast of Mexico.
Department of Srate
T0:
Military Attache. American Embassy. Mexico City. Mexico.
For your further information on the above subject, there
894.20212/314
is anclosed copy of letter from 2. Bth Corps Area, dated Deca
ber 17. 1931. relative to Japanose marine notivities in the vicin-
1ty of Guaymas. Sonora.
For the A. C. of S.. G-2:
W. H. SDPSON.
Major. G.S..
Exeoutive Officer, 2.
cp
1 enal.
COPY FOR STATE DEPARTMENT.
181932
CETLA
CONFIDENT

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.98)
(COPY)
(1766-0-76)
HRADQUARTERS EIGHTH CORPS ARBA
Office of the Assistant Ohief of Staff for Military Intelligence
CONFIDENTIA:
Fort Sam Houston, Texas
Deceaber 17, 1931.
SUBJECT: Japanese Marine activities in
the vicinity of Guaymas, Sonora.
Mexico.
TO
Asst. Chief of Staff. -2. War Department,
Washington, D.C.
1. The following statement, dated December 14. 1931, has
been obtained from Royal J. Swift, Apartado l00, Guaymas, Sonore.
Mexico, an employee of the Pierce Oil Company!
"I sent one of my employees aboard the Japanese
fishing boats that are in Guaymas and he says that the
boats have an appearance of anything except fishing.
The ahief of these boats speaks English rather well and
appears to be a very high class man for a fisherman.
These boats are constantly going out to sea up and down
the coast and up until the present date have not been
known to bring in any fish.
"It is my belief as I expressed it to you when you
were here, that these are government men and there seems
to be no doubt among the local people that the first offi-
cer is a Japanese government engineer taking official
notes on this strip of coast. These boats have made sev-
eral visits to Magdalene Bay and have been making soundings
there. They have asked for a grant of land there to estab-
lish a colony but I understand that it was refused."
2. This report is forwarded to follow up reports made recently
by this office on the same subject.
(signed) L. B. LAPHAM.
L. B. Clapham,
Major. General Staff.
A.. 0. of S.. G2.
CONFIDENTI

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.92)
0-2
RHB/AB
1931
lax.
62/1706-0-76
Docember 17, 191.
CONFIDENTI.
Subjeot: Japanese Aotivities on the West Joust.
To:
Military Attache, Amerioen Embasay. Mexico City. Hexico.
1. With reference to our letter of December 15, 1931, on
the above subjest, the onclosed report of Desember 10, 1931, from
2. First Cavalry Division, Vort Bliss, Texas, identifies "Cebosea".
Sonore (referred to in momorandmm of Speoial Agent M. Sorola of the
Dopartment of Justice. Phoenix, Arizona, Novomber 11, 191), a8
Cabarae, Sonora.
2. Muller informetion on the three Jepenese who essed
through Nogales on November 20. on route to Oulinoen. is contained
in the following excerpt from & confidentisl letter of November
from the Immigration Inepector at "ogsles:
"Ote Kamade. male. 48 years of ge. married,
holdor of Japanese paseport Ho. 51l536: admitted
at San Francisco, ex-3.6. Siberie-Maru: produoe
merahant ond owmer of Star Produce Co., Wholesale
Temminal. Los Angoles. Calif.: en route to Culia-
can, Sinaloa, Nexico, where he expects to stsy two
or three daye for the purpose of purohasing tome-
toes for distribution in the United States.
"Matauahi Haruse, male, 9 years of ge.
married: holder of Jnpenese  assport No. l99608;
admitted at San Franoisco. alif., ex-S.S. Chiyo
Maru. March 14. 1921: connected with Sun Produce
Co.. Wholesale Jommission Herohants. 1l26 Snn
Julian Street, Los Angeles. C-lif.; ol-imm to be
en route to Culinonn. Sinslos, Mexice, where he
expeots to stay two or three days for the purpose
of buying tomatoes for distribution in the nited
States.
CONFIDENTL
01
COPY FOR STATE DEPARTMENT.

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.89)
CONFTOENTIA!
"Kemiire Shinazakd. male, 47 yeare of age.
married; holder of Japanese passport No. 5976l:
admitted at Seettle, Wemhington. ax-3.3. Aki
Naru. Marah 36. 1914: elims to be owmer of High
land Fruit Co., Jobbers of fruit and produce.
1060 Sem Julian 3t., Los Angeles, Dl1f.; is en
route te Culinosn, Sinelon, Mexico, where he ex-
peots to spend two or three days buying tomatoes
for distribution in the United states."
3. In a letter of November 24, the Inmpeotor states
that these throo mam were re-admitted as lawiully domiciled aliens
om that date. dostimod to their Los Angeles, lif., adcdresses.
For the A. C. of 3..2
njor. 0..
xooutive ficer. 0-2.
op
1 Inel.1
Latter from G2, t. Blies. Tex.. 1.-lo 1.
-2

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.94)
(COPY)
(2657-0-657)
60
HEADQUANTERS FIRST CAVALRY DIVISION
Office of the Division Comnander
CONFIDENTH
Fort Bliss, Texas.
350.05
December 10, 1931
02.
CONHIRENTIAL
Subjeat: Mexican Information.
To:
Assistent (hief of Staff. G-2.
Headquarters. Eighth Corps Ares.
Fort Sam Houston. Texas.
1. The following unconfirmed report has just been re-
Geived from Mr. R.H. Celvin, Special Agent of the Department of
Justiee in El Paso, who stated that one of his ngents has just
returned from a trip to arisona with the information given below
whiah he obtained frem Mr. T.B. Doolittle. Mounted Customs In-
apertor at Tuma:
"Lewis Collins, a truak driver operating
between Tuma, Arizona, and Caborca, Sonora, and
an informant for the Customs Service, is report-
ed to have told Mr. Dmolittle that on Oatober 7.
end 8. 1931, 30 Japanese engineers landed at
Guaymas: that these Japs were later seen mapping
roads and making topogrephicel maps on the west
coast of Sonora, using surveying inetruments.
"Two of these Japs are stntioned at Caboros.
Some of these Japs speak good English, Spanish
end Germen. These Japs were still seattered all
over Sonore up to November 1. 191."
The Department of Justice agent also stated that he
had received a report from Mr. Doolittle nt Yuma, that within the
lest two or three days a Japanese war veesel had lended a group of
ahout twelve or fifteon Japanese, ostensibly fishermen, on the
Wost Coast. The emet spot at which these Japanese were landed is
not known but was believed by the infommant to be Romerio or Le az.
(sigmed). ALLE.
CONFIDE
m. Nalle.
Copy furnished
Major, General Staff.
G-2. Winth Corps Area.
A. 0. of S., 2.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.90)
02
RHS/AB
3/1768-0-76
CONFIDENTI
Donember 10. 191.
Subjeot: Japanese Aotivities on the ost Const.
To:
Military Attache. Aeorioan mbassy. Noxico ity. "axico.
1. Emolosed for your information, end mmch oomment or
denfirmation as you may be able to furnish, are the following
papers sonserning alleged Japoneso notivitios on the ost Coest
of Mexico:
a. Nomoranhm for The Adjutont Gonoral.
Deoember 10. 191. from the A.. of . 2.
War Department, enalosing letter from the D
partment of Justice. Decomber 4. 19l. trans-
mitting memorendhm from Special sent. orole.
Phoenix. Arisone. November 11. 191.
b. xoerpte from spocial roports to 
Sth Corps Aren. from Mr. Otto Holatein. formerly
of Mexioo Cityi also trenslation of artiole from
La Premas of Mexioo City. November 6. 19 1.
2. Copies of this correspondence are also being sent to
the Office of Haval Intelligonce and to the Departaent of State.
For the A. . of.
1
Jor. 0.8.
xecutive fficer..
2 Inels., es above.
COPY FOR STATE DEPARTMENT
CONFIDENTL

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.94)
a2
RHS/AKB
CONFIDENTIA/MS
UTOAN
0-2/1766-0-76
Department of State.
ATE
Jamary 13, 1932.
1882.
VISION OF
Japanase Aotivities on the West Coast of Mexico.
315
To:
Military Attache, American Embassy, Mexico City, Mexico.
1. With further reference to our letters of December 15, 17
and 24, 1931, on the above subject, there is enclosed copy of a letter
FK
from the Commanding General, Eighth Corps Area, dated Jamuary 4, 1932,
containing a resume of additional information relating to alleged
Japanese aotivities in Mexico.
894.20212/315
2. Copies of this correspeadence are also being sent to the
Office of Naval Inteliigence and to the Department of State.
For the A. C. of S., -2:
W. H. SIMPSON.
Major, G.S.,
Executive Officer, G-2.
cp
1 Incl.
m
AN 
COPY FOR STATE DEPARTMENT.
CONFIDENTLL

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.98)
(COPY)
CONFIDENTIAL
HEADQUARTERS EIGHTH CORPS ARRA
Office of the Corps Area Commander
0-2 091(Japan)
LBC/rlh
x 091(Mexico)
Fort Sam Houston, Texas
January 4, 1932.
CONTIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: Japanese Activities in Mexico.
TO:
The Adjutant Generel, Washington, D.C.
1. Reference letter, 2 091(Japan) X 091(Mexico), dated December 22.
1931, Commanding General, 8th Corps Area. to The Adjutant General; Subject:
Japanese Activities in Mexico: the following additional information is sub-
mitted:
2. The following reports have been obtained:
. (1) A very reliable informant submits report dated Yuma,
Arizona, December 22, 1931. Informant states information was ob-
tained by questioning a dozen or more Mexicans who had recently
ciroulated (hauling wood, and on other business travels) in the
district involved.
(2) Report is quoted:
"Upon my arrival here I immediately sought transpor-
tation to San Luis, some 27 miles a little west of south, on
the Maxican side.
"There is no regular service operating - there being
little or no travel - and I was fortunate in securing trans-
portation in a private car to San Luis.
"Here I found many obstacles in the way of my further
progress: I required 'Form 10 from the Secretariat of Relaciones
Exteriores' from Mexice, the only alternative being to seek this
permission by telegraph and it soon was apparent that I should
not be permitted to proceed south of San Luis under any ciroum-
stances, it having been my intention to go on to Port Isabel.
some 82 miles almost due south of San Luis. This apparent in-
tention of placing obstacles in my way was not without signifi-
cence to me and I made some inquiries regarding Japanese activi-
ties in this territory and learned that a party of 30-odd Japanese
had actually been working to the South of San Luis and between
that place and El Mayor and Port Isabel at the extrome northern
and of the Gulf of California and that they had been there for a
matter of probably three weeks but were no longer in that part
of the country, having departed for some destination unknown to
CONFIDENT
-1-

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
my informant some time previously, the exact or even the approx-
imate date not being known. I also learned that this party was
armed with papers from Mexico City and that the ostensible object
of their survey was that of locating lands for agricultural pur-
poses contiguous to the Imperial Valley region of Southern
California and Lower California.
"I alse learned that a member of the Staff of the
Japanese Legation at Mexice City met the party and brought them
papers uthorising local Mexican officials to give them every
attention."
1. (1) The same informant submitted another report from El
Pase om Deeember 26, 1931, quoted extracts of which follow. The
friend referred to is reported to be: Mr. Michaels, Secretary,
Chauber of Oemmeree of Nogales, Arisona. The source of Mr. Michaels'
infomation has net yet been ascertained.
(2) Report is quoted:
"I m jast in receipt of a commmnication from Tuma,
from a friend, under date of the 24th instant, whiah I shall
quote literally:
""Have fust been advised that members of the Jap
Engineering Corps with instruments, are doing plenty of work
with Headquarters at Caborca. This covers the Salinas, Point
Lobos and Saint George Bay area and possibly extends to the
mouth of the Colorade River south of Yuma, or all along the Gulf.
I am very fmiliar with this section and feel certain that small
boats could eas ily be landed along the Gulf at any of these points,
the main diffioulty would be water supply. x x x x x'
"I may tell you that I did not tell my correspondent
of my own observations and voiced no belief that 'Officers of the
Japanese Engineer Corps' were at werk or even interested and this
makes my correspondent's letter doubly interesting.
"x x x x x x Te American Consul at Guaymas mentioned
seeing two Gesoline outters flying the Japanese flag (whether
their man-of-war flag or that of their merohant marine I do not
happen to kmow) disappear behind some Islands on his arrival by
Sea a couple of weeks before. x x x x x x"
A. (1) Another statement of Mr. Michaels, reported to have
been in Nogales. Arizona on December 26, 1931, is quoted.
(2) ", Haven't seen many Japs entering through here, think
they must be going via the Coast route, but lately have noticed
a mmber of rilipinos making the trip as touriata, and knowing
their attitude - or of some of them at least - and the circum-
stanees, am giving you this for what it is worth.'
CONDIDENTIAL
-2-

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
A. (1) Another report from Phoenix, Arizona, gives information
as follows:
(2) H. E. Palmer, registered at the Ford Hotel. Phoemix,
about Decmber 19, 1931, an alleged British subject, stated he
resided in Tekio and is an agent for, or adviser to the Japanese
Govermment. Palmer rented an mutemobile from S. C. Hell, 244 West
Washingten Street, Phoenix, for several days to make 'sight-seeing'
trips. On one suah trip odemeter showed he covered 200 miles a day.
(3) ffort is being made to aheck on this individual with a
view to asoertaining whether or not his conneotions or activities
warrant further interest.
. The following Associated Press dispatch is quoted as of
possible interest in connection with this sutject:
UXI00 CITY. Jan. 2.--Japan has turned to the Mexican
maried for petroloum, a dispatoh from Cardenas, San Luis Potosi,
said today. Heavy shipments of crude oil were reported passing
frem Tampico to Mansanille on the way to the Orient.
"The correspondent said the National Railways contracted
to move approximately 30,000 barrols of crude oil dsily to
Manssnillo."
1. (1) On Jamuary 4, 1932, the following information was given
by Mr. Jehn B. Carrington, San Antonio business man, in the course of
conversation regarding alleged nitrate deposits near Sen Luis Potosi,
S.LsP., Maxico. Mr. Carrington was told of these incidents by business
associates, and they are regarded as unconfirmed rumors that miy be of
importance, but not susceptible to aheck at this time and locality.
(2) About December 12. 1931, a Chinese, stating he represented
the Chinese Government, interviewed Mr. Worthington (Engineer controlling
alleged nitrate deposits in San Lais Potosi) in San Antonio. The Chinese
was interested in negotiating for large quantities of nitrates, md wanted
very early deliveries, stating that should a state of war come into being.
nitrates would probably be considered as contraband and thus not irans-
portable.
(3) About Decamber 15, 1931, a Japanese interviewed Mr. Worth
ington in Mexieo. The Japanese was interested in buying nitrates from
the Worthington projest or obtaining an interest in same. The Japanese's
businees or official conneotions were not learned.
3. . The fact that the expulsion of Chinese from Sonora has been
effeoted coincident with reported Japanese activities in that ares
appeare signifioant, and another factor worthy of consideration in this
situation. The 90 per cent labor law of Mexico, Causing exodus of
hinesefrom Sonora, is spplioable to all of Mexico, but it has been
moted Chinese contimme their business operations in Chihuahua and
Coalmila without spparent molestation.
CONFILENTIAL
-3-

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
. The diffioulties encountered by persons attempting to enter
Maxiee via San Imis (27 miles south of Yuma) do not exist at points
aleng the southerm border east of that point.
4. Effort will be contimued to learn more of this situation. While
the foregoing reports are not definitely confirmed, it is felt that they
warrant investigation beyond our boundaries by positive action net per
mitted this headquarters.
(signed) EDWIN B. WINANS.
Edwin B. Winans.
Major General, U. S. A..
Commanding.
C ONFI DE NT I A L
-4-

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.93)
January
16 1982
3141
CONFIDENTIAL
511
To the American Ambassador,
Mex1oo 01ty.
The Seoretary of State refers to the Department's
confidential mail instruotion No. 510 of January 15, 1932,
tranemitting copies of four communications concerning
alleged Japanese activities in Mexioo, and informs the
894.20212/
Ambassador that the War Department has sent a confidential
letter dated January 13, 1932, to the Military Attach6 of
the Embassy, together with a copy of a confidential report
dated January 4, 1932, from the commanding offioer of the
Eighth Corps Area, containing additional information on the
3
15
above-mentioned subject. The letter to the Military Attaché
refers to other communications on the subjeot sent to him
by the War Department under date of December 15, 17 and 24,
1931.
Rom
FE
ME:ROT:GS
O1 Brut
m.m.H.
A true copy of
the signed orig
Jan. 16 1982.
HVy
OR
AW

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.95)
528
January 80 1982.
CONFIDEITIAL-FOR STAFF USE ONLY
To the Amerisan Ambassador,
Mexico City.
The Seoretary of State refers to the Department's
confidential mail instruotion No. 510 of January 15,
1932, transmitting copies of four communications conoern-
894.20212/316
ing alleged Japanese activities in Mexico, and encloses
herewith, for the oonfidential information of the Ambas-
sador, a copy of a letter dated January 23, 1932, from
the Department of Justice, together with a ∞py of a
report submitted by a special agent of that Department,
containing additional information on the above-mentioned
subjeat.
Enclosure:
From Department of
Justice dated Jamuary 23, 1932,
with enolosure.
894.20312/316
RAM
FE
No Biat
ME:RCT:GS
m.m,H.
A true copy of
the signod orig-
inal.
Jan. 30. 1982.
UR
ReJ

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.97)
844.20212/316

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.94)
ME
CJH
FE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
This telegram must be
MEXICO CITY
carefully paraphrased be-
fore@ing communicated to
Dated Fobruary 6, 1932
anyone
FROM
贝
FOR FASTEHN AFFAIR
Rec'd. 9 p.m. ly
peli.8
M
FEB 8
DIVISIOF
古
199200N 
0
Secretary of State.
FFB-1932
Washington.
894.20212/317
Department of State.
35, Fobruary 6, 3 p.m.
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL . NOT FOR GENERAL DISTRIBUTION.
894.20212
Reforring to the Dpart ent's confidential instructions
20212/312
3154
Nos. 510, January 15; 511, January 16; 528, January 30;
711.
all of 192.
711.
One. This morning I informally presunted to the
inister of Foreign Affairs an infornal memorandum
showing reported landing of Japanese engineers
(equipped with enein ering and photoeraphic outfits)
2932
on Mexican west coast at Guaymas in October and
November and at Rosario or La Faz in December.
Two. I told him I was not makin: representations
CONFIDENTIAL FILE
hut was merely submitting reports that came to our border
posts, and that I could not vouch for the accuraey of
the reports.
Threu. I stated tat I aporeciated Hexico was
within hor rights in having Japaness make maps and
surveys of her

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.97)
1
CJH
Page 2 - #35 fDom Mexico
City
surveys of her coasts and coastline, if she wished such
cooperation, but that obviously in the rcmote contingency,
as I understood it, of difficulty between the United
States and Japan the pr sence of so many trained Japanese
in a region from which they could so ocgily fain access
to the United States was a source of sone anxicty to us,
because of the possibilitics of sabotafe.
Four. The Minister said he would have the matter
looked into.
Five. He said I might informally assure the
partment that in case of difficulti s between the
United States und Japan, Miexico wou'd neither directly
or indirectly be allied or associated with Japan.
Six. Throush my General Calles contact I also
brought the matter to the Gen ral's attuntion this
morning. He sent back word that he knew nothin about
the matter; that he could hard ly credit it; that he
would investigage

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.92)
Page 3 - #from Mexico
City.
would inv stigate and if true would immediately put a stop
to the activities.
Seven. The general asked the contact to assure me
that in case of difficulty between the United States and
Japan, Mexico's attitud towards the (aggressor) would be
one of benevolent neutrality, and added that he hoped I
knew what that meant.
Eight. I will roport divelopments.
CLARK
7. The General asked the contact to assure me that
in case of difficulty between the United States and Japan,
Mexico's attitude towards the United States would be one
of benevolent neutrality, and added that he hoped I knew
what that meant.
his i the cot eis f  pgsh
in  o 35 F , 1432 n  
nt oeph.
201
anbiguity of aah7.
45B

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.94)
Paraphrase of telegram No. 35, February 6,
3 p. m., from the Amerioan mbassy at Mexico
City, addressed to the eeretary of State.
I refer to the nenartment's confidential insgruotion
9
No. 510 of Jenuary 15, 193a, and to other instructions
since that date, in relation to allemed Jananese activities
in Mexico.
I have today informally presented to eñor Tellez,
Winister of Foreign Affaire, an informal memorandum showing
reported landing on Hexican est Coaat at  usymas in Ccto-
ber and Yovember and at  az or osario in ecember of
Japanese engineers equipned ith  hotogra hie and en ineer-
ing outfits.
B. The Yoreign  inister ve informed that I wae not
making renregentations but thet I ras merely bri giny to
his attention revorts thet hud bee received by united
t tes officiale at border
eints. I dvi ved the oreign
Minister that I co
vouch f or the ecouracy of the
reports in reference.
C. I told the Minister that I aoprecieter the fact
that vexioo was wi thin her rights in havi opanese sub-
jeots meke surveys of her coast i coactli e n make
mans thereof, if vexico desired uc cooneration, but that
in the event of diffioulty between Japan and the nited
States the presence of so many trained Japanese subjects
in a reglon where they could easily gain access to the
Territory of the United tates would, beoause of the
poesibilities

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.85)
-2-
possibilities of sab:tage nd other nctivities, be a source
of some anxiety to the Cover went of the united "tates.
n. I was inforued by the inister that he would have
an investigation made in the matler.
. The oreign ini ter infemmer me thet I misht
inforwl a ure the evertment f t to that in the
event of aifriou ul bet e Twn  t e aled tates
the Goveram nt of exion wo ld meither al rectly or in-
ion
ireotly be es ciat1i
I senerel So lcs
r thy
teneral
he ter
 troredt
on  i .
erth
the reorte thatai th
he would oauce an investig t    made esif t r
orto wo fo nd t  tre  i uto to be
to the activitie in eferevce.
c. eneral cllon ura. throu the contaot
that in oase of diffioul ty between Tapan  the Unite
4.5.x
t tes, the attitude of exlco t mards the arescor)wo
be one of benevolent peutrality. oneral Calles eore
the hope that I knew what tiat meant. evelopments wll
be reported.
atha.dad 4/2 0/36 t

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.81)
4m
Paraphrase of telegram To. , ebruary 6,
3 p. m., from the Amerioen mbamsy at exico
city, addreosed to the eer tery of tate.
I refer to the Department's confidential insgruotion
No. S10 of Jenuary 15, 193n, and to other inotruotionn
since that date, in relation to llered Jumaneve activities
in exico.
A. I wav totty informelly presented to efor Tellez,
inieter of areign  frsire, an informal emorandum showing
reoorted Lnnding on vexlcan cst Coaat at  uaymen in rcto-
ber and ovouber   or onorlo in ece ber of
Jepanese encineere emino
hetogre bie ane on i neer
in outfite.
oreir tnleter m uformed that I vee not
makins re rementet one but tooo I mr erely bri usis to
hie sttontion re prte thes
boeoeived byait
ttee ofrieiel t border pint.
lore
reot
re orts in referenee.
o. I to  the ini-tor t aonreclote t feet
thateootin rtni enee m
teote w oe wor atoake
mos thereot if exion leglred w eoopret on. but that
in the event of viffioulty betwee lapen nnd t nited
"tatee the re se eo of oo many treined Jenanese oub eets
in a region wheve they could easlly main mocen to the
Ter itory of the nlted tates mel booange of the
oibilities

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.80)
一
—2-
possibilitics of sab tage ni other nctivities, be a source
of some anxlety to the cover umnt of the united taten.
n. I was informed by the  inister that he would have
an investigation made in the matter.
T. The foreign ini ter informee me thet I might
informel ao ure the evertment f t to that in the
bet een Jan t e aied tates
event of aifriod ol
the Coverem nt of exlen would neither direetly or in-
ireotly be eso ciat i? i wion.
2. Throwsh the  sbegoy'o eunt-et tta senerel Solles
sheotterbttne
on ti
i n.
en tt e bardy oredit
stser: that
the reorte, that h a tiy aot th
he moula oaune en inventig tmode e if t re
t tho a tivitie ia oo.
nerlron co tao
nit
thet in eaer of dif ton ty betwe n erss
11
evelonments vill
theo thatI kor ttwat.
e reported.
Ta411

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.98)
#130 South Avenue 56,
Feb. 2, 1932.
Los Angeles, California,
Guck'd
Division of
President Herbert Hoover,
FAH EASTERN AFFAIRS
Washington, D. C.
EEB 10 1932
16 1932.
Dear Mr. President:
Department of State
February
I trust you will pardon my writing; but during an
experience of twenty-three years in the agricultural machinery here,
dealing constantly with Japanese ranchers, I was gradually 1mpressed
with the constantly inoreasing numbers of Japanese in Mexico, now
amounting to a formidable host as I understand. They are practicall
all hardy, aggressive young men, used to arduous labor and rough
living, and have mostly had more or less military training. They
could almost over night be mobilized into an army of major proportio
that could strike swiftly and deeply across our unprotected Mexican
border, as nearly every Japanese rancher owns his own motor-truck.
Our oil fields are about all along that border. Once in possess
of our oil supply, the invaders could quickly paralyze our air forc
our mobile transportation, and our navy.
I have no doubt but that our War Department has taken these fact
seriously, and I hope they will see that the Mexican border is heavi
protected before an enemy finds an exouse to strike at us without
warning-- as was done to the Chinese. At least I trust that plenty
arms and ammunition will be available at all our main centers of pop
lation along the border, in order that civilians may not be left
helpless in an emergency. Even Los Angeles is only one night by tru
from the Imperial Valley and Mexicali, and most of our oil fields ar
not much further by motor from the Mexican line.
I think an investigation will surprise you at the excessive
numerical strength of the brown race in Mexico, and it is well known
that they carry out the orders of their emperor or die in the attemp
Also, 1f you know Mexicans intimately, Texas and California still
rankle in their breasts not much less than Alsace-Lorraine in the
hearts of Germans. And the insult of a white skin to those socially
discriminated against because of darker color is something that
cannot be atoned for by the white man.
I submit the above in a spirit of patriotic interest, and trust
it may not be taken amiss. I of course do not even mention such id
publicly or at home, as I am not an alarmist, and I am aware of the
dangers of even confidential rumors. But I believe the menace is
real and feasible, with the present unprotected state of our border
Very respectfully yours,
Meston Havtga
(S. Weston Hastings)

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.92)
Wehruary 15 1988.
In reply refer to
E 893.20212/318
894.20212/318
Mr. S. Weston Hastings,
130 South Avenue 56,
Los Angeles, California.
Sir:
The receipt 1s aoknowledged by reference from the
White House of your letter of February 2, 1932, in re-
gard to the number of Japanese in Mexico.
Your letter has been read with interest and your
courtesy in bringing this matter to the Department's
attention is appreciated.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
m. m./i.
Maxwell M. Hamilton,
Assistent Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
Rely
89.5.
PCT
ATS
A trus cop
FE:EC:CS:SS FE
ME
the signegrorig-
Ba
1032.
To.15

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.95)
February 13 1982.
537
CONFIDENTIAL - POR STAFF USE ONLY
To the American Ambassador,
Mexioo City.
894.20212
894.202L2/318A
The Seoretary of State refers to the Department's
confidential mail instruction No. 528 of January 30,
1932, in regard to alleged Japanese activities in
Mexico, and informs the Ambassador that the War Depart-
ment has sent two confidential communications to the
MilisamyyAttaché of the Embassy, dated February 4 and
February 6, 1932, respectively, together with copies
of confadential reports of recent date from the Com-
manding General, Eighth Corps Area, and from the Exeoutive
Officer of the Firet Cavalry Division, Ft. Bliss, Texas,
containing additional information on the above-mentioned
Confidential File
subjeot. One of the enolosures transmitted with the
War Department's letter of February 4 is a copy of a
recent report submitted by a special agent of the Depart-
ment of Justice, a copy of which was forwarded to the
Ambassador with the Department's instruction No. 528.
894.20212/
psum
ME:ROT: GS
7E
A true copy of
the signed orig-
f Buat
m.m,N.
inal
Feb.10.1932.PM

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.94)
AE
(COPY)
ONFIDENTIA
1 (Japan)
LRC/otm
HEADQUARTERS EIGHTH CORPS AREA
LivOsride or the Gorps Area Commander
SECRET
HVE
Jamuary 18, 1932.
Divisian of
319
FOF FASTERN AFFAIRS
SUBJECT: Japanese Activities in Mexico.
FEB181932
TO:
The Adjutant General, Washington, D.C.
Deparment t State
1. Reference 1etter Ag 350.05, Mex1co, (12-10-31) (M1sc.) B,
FK
dated December 14, 1931, Subject: Japanese Activities in Mexico,
the following information is submitted.
894.20212/31
. CABORC4. On Jamuary 6, 1932, Mamuel Sorola stated
to G-2, lst Cavalry Division that the name GABOSCa. appearing in
his report of November 11, 1931, was erroneous and that the town
referred to is actually CABORCA.
b. H. E. PALMER (referred to in letter G-2-091 (Japan).
dated Jamiary 4, 1932, subject: Japanese Aotivities in Mexico, these
headquarters, to The Adjutant General). The following report on this
man is based upon statements he made to a reliable informant who was
in contact with him in Phoenix, Arizona. Palmer's calling card reads
"Harold E. Palmer, Linguistic Adviser to the Department of Education.
Tokio". He claims to be an instructor of foreigners in the English
6
language. He has been in Canada as well as the United States on this
trip. He learned of Phoenix in London as being an interesting side
trip. He possessed a railroed ticket and cabin on a steamer out of
San Francisco to Tokio, all of which were purchased in London. From
Phoenix he made a trip to Tuma in company with our informant, and re-
turned thereto. On this trip he visited Algondes, Mexico. He claims
to be married to a Belgian woman and has two children, one a girl of
twenty-four who is married to a British subject who represents mn elec-
trical company in Tokio which was transferred to some commmupity in the
interior of China. Palmer's wife and other child, a boy of eleven years,
口j
had been in London but started for Tokio just after Christmas He
E
stated that the Japanese Government was paying only a small part of his
国
expenses on this trip which was considered a vacation, and that he made
his expenses mainly through lectures at universities. He gave a lecture
on "Japan and Manchuria,
in the Y.M.C.A. building at Phoenix, Arizona,
ONFIDENTIA

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.98)
ONFIDENTIA
abeat Jamuary 8, 1932. He gave our informant the impression of being
a oultured, highly trained gentleman, who had no ulterior motive. Palmer
left Phoenix for Los Angeles, California early in Jamuary to give some
lectures there. His Los Angeles address is c/o W.H. Shield, Room 207.
1240 S. Main Street. He is scheduled to sail for Tokio from San Francisco
on February 4, 1932.
. JAPANESE SILK MILL. A reliable informant states there 1s
a silk mill at Alamos (southeast part of Sonora, near the Sinaloa line).
It is rumored that this is operated by the Japanese Government, but no
confirmation of this has been obtained.
. JAPANESE AGENT IN SONORA, A reliable informant states that
at Ciulad Obregon (Cajeme on some maps), Bonora, there is a Japanese farmer
by the name of Tanaka who is a power mong Japanese in Sonors. It is re-
ported that this Tanakm, who is not a consul, openly admitted that he is
a representative of the Japanese Government and is very proud of the fact.
 RUMORS FROM ZARAGOZA. TIJUANA. OF JAPANESE ACTIVITIES.
The heed of a local detective agenoy in El Paso, Texas, voluntarily fur-
nished the 0-2, 1st Cavalry Division a letter mailed Jamuary 10, 1932,
whiah is quoted below. The writer is reported io be an American citizen
of Mexican extraction, who was reliable and trustworthy when last employed
by the deteotive agency, in 1924.
"Dear Sir:
"As I consider it is my duty to report some
observations I have made during the last few months, I must
start with saying that here in Lower Celifornia American
people is not well liked, therefore since the Japan and China
outhreak meny rumors have been current. That there is no
doubt that Japan of trying her best to draw the United States
into war, but that the United States for lack of confidence
on their part, have evade getting into any trouble, that should
anything started, they would not only have the emomy near their
doors but would be within their doors; as it was reported not
long ago that a Japanese boet had secretly landed some 800
men along the coast near Magdalena Bey. The only credit I
can give to this rumor is that during the last few months I
have notice a good mumber of strange Japanese faces which no
doubt are strangers here and with a recent talk I had with a
Jap that runs a pool hall here I understood that three Jepanese
well dressed that were at his place had come direct from Japan,
that Japanese have a spionage system there seems to be no doubt
NFIDENTIA
SECRET
- 2 -

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.97)
NFIDENTL
as I have notice too some Japs visitors from the states
frequently. I am just giving this few details, if you
censider them of any value I will be glad to report further
observations.
"Yours very truly,
"01d 27"
f. JAPAHESE PROPAGANDA. Inclosed herewith is an article
from the magazine "Carteles", believed to be published in Cuba and
having a wide ciroulation in Mexico. A literal translation made at
these headquarters accompanies the article, which is entitled
"Why Japan Hates the United States."
For the Commanding General:
(signed) JAMES TOTTEN,
Jemes Totten,
Colonel, A.G.D.,
Acting Adjutant Genoral.
1 Incl. (with translation)
(16 Roceived A.0.0. Jan. 22, 1933)
NFIDENTLA
- 3 -

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.96)
0-2
RRS/AXB
file
0-2/1766-0-76
OONFIDENTIAL
1922
Division of
AFFAIRS
February 4,
FFB181932
Uapartment of State
Subject: Japanese Activities on the West Coast of Mexico.
To:
Malitary Attache, American Embassy, Mexico City, Mexico.
1. W1th reference to our letter of Jammary 13, 1932, and
previous correspondence on the above subject, there is enclosed copy
FK
of a letter from the Cemmanding General, Bth Corps Area, dated Jam-
ary 18, 1932, contaiaing supplementary data.
894.20212/32
2. There is alse attached for your further information
copy of a letter frem the Department of Justice to the Secretary of
War, dated Jammary 26, 1932, enclosing copy of a report of Special
Agent M. Sorola dated El Paso, Texas, January 15, 1932, in the case
entitled "Japanese Engineers, Japanese activities in Oid Mexice."
he seotion of this report headed "At San Luis, Arizona," apparently
supports and smplifies the information contained in letter from the
Commanding Gemeral, 8th Corps Area, dated January 4, 1932, par. 2,
 and . It weald seem that the Japanese group includes both en-
gineers working on land surveys in the western portion of the State
of Sonore and se-called fishermen exploring the adjacent waters.
2
It is noted that the Japanese landing ship is referred to in this
O
section of Agent Serela's report as"a Japanese battleship" and is
said to have landed both the engineere and fiahermen. Our letter
of December 17, 1931, enclosed a report of December 10, 1931, from
CONFIDENTIAL FILE
G-2, First Cavalry Division, Ft. Bliss, Texas, which reiterated the
alleged landing of 30 Japanese engineers at Guaymas on or about
October 8, 1931, and at the same time mentioned the later landing
(apparently in November or early December) of about 12 or 15 Japen-
ese, "ostensibly fishermen," on the West Coast from "a Japanese war
vessel."
3. The last paragraph on page 2 of Agent Sorola's report
refers to a Japanese engineer who is said to have passed through
San Imis en route to Beja California, "with a letter of recommenda-
tion and a pass from the Mimister of France in Mexico City making
for safe conduct for him." The meaning of this statement is not
clear, but perhaps some light can be thrown on it in Mexico City.
The letter, if signed by the Minister of France, mey have been
nothing more than a letter of introduction to some French commer-
cial interests in Lower California, in which case its only signifi-
Sance would perhaps be in relation to the present conflict in Sino-
Japanese relations.
JOPY O.
CONFIDENTIAl
-1-

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.93)
4. It is understood that a copy of Agent Sorola's report
has been transmitted by the Department of State to Ambassador Clark,
for such consideration as he may deem appropriate.
S. Oopies of this correspondence aro being sent alse to
the Department of State and to the Office of Naval Intelligence.
For the . C. of S., G2:
. H. SDMPSON.
Major. G.S.,
Executive Officer, G2.
op
2 enols.-
Ltr. fr. C.G., 8th CA. 1-18-32. and enc1.
Ltr. fr. Dept. of Justioe, 1-26-32, and enal.
CONFIDENTIA
Copy to: 0.G., 8th C..)
ithout enol. mentioned in par. l.
C.G.. 9th 0.4.)

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.98)
COPY
11032
offie of the Assistant Chief of staff, 2,
Hoadquarters Eighth Corps Area,
Fort Sam Houston, Texas.
January 18, 1932.
112
Translation of an article entitled "Why Japan Hates the
United States", published in CARTELES, a Havana, Cuba, magazine.
(Editor's note: Owing to the kindness of H. Hama, dis-
tinguished member of the Japanese Colony in Havana, we are able
to offer our readers this juicy chapter of the book "The Next
Japanese-American War" published in Tokyo by General Kiokatsu Sato.
This chapter gives an outline of the causes of Japanese resentment
against our northern neighbors. Since a war between Japan and the
United States will surely affect Cuba to a very large extent, we
have deemed it convenient to familiarize our readers with these
important problems of international politics.)
I do not want to say that the United States is our hypo-
thetical enemy, or use other similar euphemisms. I do affirm
emphatically that the United States is our enemy. We ought to
regard the Yankees as our enemies on account of the numerous in-
justices heaped upon us. And, even though there has never been a
war between us, our people cannot consider that nation (U. S.) as
their friends.
Some Japanese say: "The American Commodore Perry was the
man who put us in touch with the Occident ai the end of the Shoguns
Government. Perry was a benefactor of our nation."
This is a great error. Perry did not come to our land in
search of our friendship, nor did he come to offer us the friend-
ship of his country. According to various documents in the hands
of our Government, Perry came to our country with the purpose of
taking possession of it, but since the Shogun Government did not
offer any resistance, there was no occasion for disturbances, and
he did not have a chance to use his arms against us.
That Perry was a benefactor of our country, and similar
nonsense, are nothing but foolish assertions of unscrupulous his-
torians, who know their history but superficially. The American
Commodore Perry was an enemy of our country, who attempted to take
possession of it by force.
Since the opening of Japan to the outside world we have
experienced a very rapid development and increase in strength,
assuming e prominent position in Oriental affairs. This is a
fact very disagreeable to the United States.
Time and again we have swallowed our resentment caused by
the numerous insulte the Americane have heaped upon us. Due to
considerations of world peace, and the ne cessity of completing our
national forces we have endured very shameful affairs.
1

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
However, we have not suffered these insults patiently, nor have we
submitted to them voluntarily. We are waiting for the time to ( renge
so many insults. We ought not to say that the Yankees are our future
emomies, but admit frankly that they are our present enemies.
Japanese Excluded from Lands and Schools.
Our country is small and narrow, and all the tillable land
is under cultivation. For this reason since the first year of the
era of Meiji, many of our nationals have migrated legally to the West
Coast of the United States, where there were great tracts of land with
out cultivation. The hard working Japenese tilled the soil. For
many years they were engaged in clearing the brush and surmounting
other difficulties. After many sacrifices they succeeded in changing
this unimproved land into gardens.
The Nosth Americans took possession of the lands which
the active, laborious, but unfortunate Japanese, had made productive.
The North Americans took the right of ownership away from them. And
that was not all; the Japanese were forbidden to lease these lands.
All land that was good and cultivable was grabbed by the Americans
as if it wore their own. Is that not a cruelty inflicted on our
emigrants?
And as if that were not enough the North Americans denied
equal social rights to the sons of our nationals. They were denied
public educaticn in the primary schools. Is that not another cruel-
ty against our emigrants?
The United States Does Not Concede Japan an Iimigrant uota.
We endured that kind of treatment at the hands of the
United States because we thought that the time would come when the
American nation would become aware of her injustices. But the North
Americans, always fatuous and arrogant, have not yet become aware
of them. They continue to impose new  justices and inequalities
upon us. For this reason we harbor a great enmity against them. We
only wait for the day when we may have a chance to settle accounts,
and bring about justice by our own hand.
Our country occupies a place among the five most important
nations of the world. We have signed a reciprocity pact with the
United States. It is proper to expect that citizens of equal
countries be treated with equality. The United States has not been
content with injuring our emigrants, but have also injured our ne-
tional dignity. e have had to suffer the cruel treatment given our
emigrants, end in virtue of the so-called Jentlemen's Agreement we
agreed voluntarily to send no more emigrants to the United States.
We have abided by the pact. We have not permitted a single emigrant
with the exception of tourists, students, and bus iness men to go to
the United States. Yet the North American Government was not satis-
fied. In l924 a new Immigration Law was passed which prohibits ab-
solutely the entry of our nationals in Amorican Territory, classify-
ing us as a race not eligible for citizenship, while all European
countries were granted a quota. This is without doubt an insult to
our national honor.
- 2-

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.98)
United Staten Compels Japan to Return Taingtao to China.
Blood is thicker than water. We participated in the Great
War, honoring our Anglo-Japanese Alliance. We sent a division
and a half of troops to Taingtao in the Province of Shantung,
China, and captured that fortified zone from Germany in l914.
China ceded that place to us, according to the clauses of the
Treaty of Peace signed in Paris in l9l9. The United States compelled
us to return it to China in the washington Conference in 1921. Our
delegate to that conference was opposed to the move and refused to
capitulate, but the United States forced us to give it back.
Though the Tsingtao occupation was an obstacle to the
American policy of the Open Door, forcing us to relinquish it was
a signal injustice. In so doing the Americans inflicted an offense
on the souls of those who fell during the fight for the oceupation
of Tsingtao. e have to avenge these souls. The cost does not mat-
ter. It is a sacred obligation to avenge them so that they may be
restored to peace.
The United Statee and the Anglo-Japangse Treaty.
The United 3tates was responsible for the abrogation of the
Anglo-Japanese Alliance. This alliance began in 1902, and protected
the mutual interests of both nations. On the other hand it was the
backbone of our international politics, and enabled us to take an ac-
tive part in international affairs.
All the events that have transpired since then, - the vie-
tories of the Japanese troops in the Russo-Japanese War; the Franco-
Japanese Accord, attained shortly after the War: the Russo-Japanese
Treaty; the participation of Japanese Troops in the allied operations
during the Boxer Rebellion in 1900; the ocoupation of Tsingtao, Shan-
tung; the occupation of severul groups of German islands in the West-
ern Pacific; the Siberian Expedition; the participation in the Treaty
of Peace after the World's ar, all these events are inescapably re-
lated to the Anglo-Japenese lliance.
At the end of the uropean ar, ngland, heavily indebted
to the United States, was receptive to all North merican suggestions.
The United States feared that Japan would opposo their policy of the
Open Doer in China. They reasoned that the greatness of Japan's power
had its origin in the nglo-Japanese Alliance. They forced Great Brit-
ain to cancel this alliance in 1921, when its term expired. So Japan
was completely isolated in the world of diplomacy. In this manner North
American struck a heavy blow at us. Ne detest such measures.
The United States Interferes In Manchuria.
The United Sta es was not satisfied with forcing England to
abandon the Anglo-Japanese Alliance. They lso abrogated a little
later the Ishii-Lansing Agreement. By the terms of this agreement the
United States acceded to recognize the special rights and interests se-
cured by Japan in Manchuria and Mongolia as a result of the wars with
China and Russia.
With the objeet of obtaining raw materials for her industries
and a market for her manufactures, the United States maintains the pol-
1ey of the Open Door in China.
~3。

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
As the recognition of our special rights and interests in Manchuria
was counter to the workings of that policy, the United States forced
the abrogation of the Ishii-Lansing Agreemont at the Washington Con-
ference.
Our sphere of influence in Munchuria and Mongolia is some-
thing for which we have paid an inealculable price. we have to de-
velop the territories of Manchuria and Mongolin in the years to come
to provide subsistence for the Japanese race. The United States, who
had recognized our special rights and interests in Manchuria and Mon-
golia, have now revoked that racognition. This is tantumount to de-
priving the Japanese people by force of its right to subsist. The re-
pudiation of the pact, is one step forward in the evolution of North
American ambitions, and a clear-cut example of the oppression and
tyranny dirested against us.
After the Great r, when the Huropean Powers were juet be-
ginning to recover from the effects of the armed conflict, the United
States suddenly announced the Washington Conferance. They invited
Japan, England, France, and Itely, and proposed the limitation of
naval armaments in the ratios 5-5-3-1.75-1.75. North America imposed
that proportion of forces on the other countries. The United States
and England were able to conserve their superior forces, limiting the
other nations to an inferior percentage. nd later at the recent Naval
Conference in London, we were compelled to limit the auxiliary ships of
our Navy. The sovereignty of a nation is something that cannot be
limited by other nations. The military preperedness of a nation is
one of the things that the sovereign nation decides for herself. Na-
tional Defense and military preparedness are the rights of a severeign
nation, and they re absolute, undeniablc, and non-limitable.
In the ashington Conference in 1921, the United States com-
pelled us to limit our dreadnoughts to 60% of theirs, end just recently
they compelled us to restrict our auxiliary ships.
The United States and the Inferiority of Japan.
In doing that the United  tates has viol ted the sovereignty
of our country. e ought to harbor no resentment against our delegates
that had to resign themselves to the exigencies of the United tates,
but we ought to feel justifiable indignation towards the United tates,
because they forced cn us a naval ratio so unequel and so unjust. Again
the American nation spits on our face. It is our duty to hate the
United States.
There is no need of employing euphemisms or high-sounding
phrases. We ought to speak with frankness and without reserve. Cur
enemy is the United States of North Americal The United States, re-
presentatives of injustice in the world, is our enemy. There is no
neod of hesitation and kind words. I am fully convinced of all I have
said. If there is anybody who does not believe this, let him be con-
vinced.
Let us rush! Let us get ourselves busy! Let us prepare our-
selves for the coming Japanese-American War! We have to punish our
onemy, the United States of North Americal
Literal Translation:
By: B. N. COLON,
Sgt. C.I.P.

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.94)
0-2
CONFIDENTIAI
CAR/AR
il
2/1766-0-76
207/26
140
PAH FASTEBN2AFFAIRS
But
EB181932
Subject: Japamese Lctivities on the West Coast of Mexico.
Dahartment of State
To:
Military Attache, American Embassy, Mexico City, Mexico.
1. The enclosed copy of report frem G-2, First Cavalry
Divisien, Fort Bliss, Texas, dated Jammary 28, 1932, concerning
Japamese activities on the West Coast of Mexice, is sent to you
FK 894.20212/321
in cemmection with our letter of February 4 on the same subject.
2. The information im paragraph 1 of this report is
almost identical with that roceived in report of Special Agent
M. Sorola, dated E1 Paso, Texas, Jammary 15, 1932, and is prob-
ably frem the same souree. However, the letter of recommende-
tien and pass, said te have been carried by a Japanese engineer
whe passed throngh San Luis en route to Lower Califoraia, is
stated to have beem from the "Mexican Mimister of Finence in
Mexice City," and not from the "Minister of France in Mexice
City" as stated in Agent Sorela's report.
For the A. C. of S., G2:
W. H. SIMPSON,
Major, G.S.,
Executive Officer, G-2.
cp
1 encl.
COPY FOR STATE DEPARTMENT.

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.97)
(78 - A.0. 350.05 Mex1c0, 1-28-32)
(COPY)
CONFIDENTL:
HEADQUARTERS FIRST CAVALRY DIVISION
Office of the Division Commander
WN-fls
0-2
Fort Bliss, Texas.
350.05
January 28, 1932.
CONFIDENTIAL.
Subjest: Information.
To:
Assistant Chief of Staff. G-2.
Eighth Corps Area, Fort Sam Houston, Texas.
1. The information given below is forwarded in confirmation
and amplification of a report sent you from this office early in
Deaember, 193l. This information was obtained frem a souree whioh is
censidered reliable and is believed to be correct.
The report is that in November, 1931. a Japanese warship
amshored off Guaymas, Sonora, and dropped three gaseline launches,
each lmnch having a crew of four or five Japanese, suppesed te be
fishermen. These launohes worked meking soundings of the Gulf of
Lewer California from Guaymas to the north as far as Camp Tornillo,
a fishing villago near the mouth of the Colorade River and about
eighty miles southeast of Yuma, Arizona. These boats worked par-
ticularly from Tiburon Island up to Camp Tornillo, and visited Puerto
Neriega, Puerte Libertad, Puerto de Lobos, Saint George Bay and Adair
Bay. One of these Japanese boats was reported as being at Camp Tor-
nillo en Janmary 1. 1932. It was reported that these Jap boats would
move out into the Gulf and then travel in zig-zag lines back and forth
making soundings, using fish lines, but they caught no fish and never
brought any fish to shore. It was the opinion of the informant that
these Japs were not fishing but making soundings of the depths of the
harbors. It was also reported tha: freight trucks were hauling gaso-
Line from San Luis, Sonora. to Camp Tornillo for these Jap boats.
On Jamary llth, according to a report, a Japanese engineer passed
through San Luis, Sonora, enroute to Baja (Lower) California, with a
letter of recommendation and a pass from the Mexican Minister of
Finance in Mexico City, requesting safe condust for this engineer.
2. My informant stated that he believes the Jspanese will
replace, in Sonera, the Chinese who were run out of that state. He
stated that the Japanese on the Sonora coast have been putting out
propaganda in that area, both to obtain the sympathy of the Mexican
people and to harm the United States.
(signed) WM. NALLE.
e. Nalle.
Major, General Staff,
CONFIDENTIAL
A. 0. of S., G2.

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.98)
NTELLIGENCE DIVISION
AR DEPARTMENT
in American Section
Secretary of War
Assistant Secretary of War
Assistant Secretary of War (Air)
0-1
G3
G-4
War Plans Division
Statistics Branch
Adjutant General's Dept.
Army Industrial College
Army War College
Air Corps (Liaison Officer)
Cavalry
Chemical Warfare Service
Coast Artillery Corps
Corps of Engineers
Command & General Staff School
Field Artillery
Finance
Infantry
Inspector General's Dept.
Insular Affairs
Judge Advocate General's Dopt.
Militia Bureau
Office of Naval Intelligence
Ordnance Dept.
Quartennaster General's Dept.
Signal Corps
Surgeon General's Office
State Dept.:
Eastern Europe
Western Europe
Near East
Latin America
Far East
Mexican Affairs
Commerce Dept.:
Forcign & Domestic Commerce
Aeronautics
For your information and file
Note and return
Note and send to

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.97)
G-2
RHS/AKB
1766-0-76
CONFENTLAL
file
February 16, 1932.
Subject: Japanese Activities in Mexico.
To:
Military Attache, American Embassy, Mexico City, Mexico.
FK 894.20212/32
1. With reference to previous correspondence concerning
Japanese activities on the West Coast of Mexico, there is enclosed
copy of a report from the G-2, First Cavalry Division, Fort Bliss,
Texas, dated February 2, 1932, relative to a party of fourteen
Japanese engineers observed working with level and transit equip-
ment at a place about eighteen miles northwest of Pearson, Chihua-
hua, on January 24. In view of the close proximity of this loca-
tion to the Sonora-Chihuahua boundary, it is presumed that this
party belongs to the group of thirty Japanese engineers previously
reported to have landed at Guaymas, and to have scattered through-
out the State of Sonora.
2. No further information is at hand concerning the
2
alleged mapping of the Sierra Madre country in the vicinity of
2
Sierra Pacheco (Colonia Pacheco) and northward to the United States
border three years ago by a party of Japanese army engineers.
3. Copies of this correspondence are also being sent to
the Department of State and the Office of Naval Intelligence.
For the A. C. of S.,G2:
. H. SIMPSON,
Major,G.S.,
Executive Officer, G-2.
cp
1 Incl., as stated.
JOPY FOR STATE DEPART ENT.

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.99)
INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
WAR DEPARTMENT
atin American Section
Secretary of War
Assistant Secretary of War
Assistant Secretary of War (Air)
0-1
G3
G4
War Plans Division
Statistics Branch
Adjutant General's Dept.
Army Industrial College
Army War College
Air Corps (Liaison Officer)
Cavalry
Chemical Warfare Service
Coast Artillery Corps
Corps of Engineers
Command & General Staff School
Field Artillery
Finance
Infantry
Inspector General's Dept.
Insular Affairs
Judge Advocate General's Dopt.
Militia Bureau
Office of Naval Intelligence
Ordnance Dept.
Quarternaster General's Dept.
Signal Corps
Surgeon General's Office
State Dept.:
Eastern Europe
Western Europe
Near East
Latin America
Far East
Mexican Affairs
Commerce Dept.:
Forcign & Domestic Commerce
Aeronautics
For your information and file
Note and return
Note and send to

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.95)
ME
G-2
RHS/AKB
Snstmition to merce
CONFIDEN
1766-0-76
file
2/15/32
R.c1.
MLT
H
February 11, 1932
FOR FASTEON AFFAIRS
FB 20 1932
F
六
Subject: Japanese Activities in Mexico.
epartment of Sinto
To:
Military Attache, American Embassy, Mexico City. Mexico.
1. With reference to previous correspondence concerning
Japanese activities on the West Coast of Mexico. there is enclosed
copy of a report from the G-2, Mirst Cavalry Division, Fort Bliss,
Texas, dated February 2, 1932, relative to a party of fourteen
Japanese engineers observed working with level and transit equip-
ment at a place about eighteen miles northwest of Pearson. Chihua-
hua, on January 24. In view of the close proximity of this loca-
tion to the Sonora-Chihuahua boundary, it is oresumed that this
party belongs to the group of thirty Japanese engineers previously
reported to have landed at Guaymas, and to have scattered through-
out the State of Sonora.
2
2. No further information is at hand concerning the
2
alleged mapping of the Sierra Madre country in the vicinity of
Sierra Pacheco (Colonia Pacheco) and northward to the United States
border three years ago by a party of Japanese army engineers.
3. Confirmation of the information contained in the
enclosed report is being sought through the Commanding General.
8th Corps Area. as indicated in the enclosed copy of Memorandum
for The Adjutant General of this date, and you will be informed
of the results.
4. Copies of this correspondence are also being sent to
the Department of State and the Office of Naval Intelligence.
For the A. C. of S., G-2:
". H. SIMPSON,
Major, G.S.,
Executive Officer, G-2.
cp
2 Incls.
COPY FOR STATE DEPARTMENT.

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.94)
(78) A.0. 350.05 Mexice (2-2–32)
CONFIDENT
(COPY)
HEADX ARTERS PIRST CAVALRY DIVISION
Office of the Division Commender
wn-ns
0-3
350.05
Fort Bliss, Texas.
February 2, 1932.
CONNIDENTIAL
Subject: Information.
To:
Assistent Chief of staff. -2.
Mighth Corps Area.
Fort Sam Houston. Texas.
1. Information has just been received from an informant
who is believed to be reliable and who hes just returned from
a trip to the vicinity of Pearson, Chilmahma, that on Jamuary
24th, 1932, while on this trip. he saw a party of fourteen
Japanese engineers working, in three groups of four or five
each, with level and transit equipment.
3. He stated that he saw this party of Japs at a place
about 18 miles northwest of Pearson near the roed between
Pearsen and a Mormon settlement known es Sierre Pecheco, which
is about 40 miles west of Pearson. Sierra Pacheco is believed
to be the same place as Colonie Pacheco. It is Located at the
foot of a pass leading wost aoroes the Sierra Mndre Mountains
and 1a near the boundary between Sonora and Chimahme. My
informant stated that this party of Japs were living in three
tents and that he knows that they had been in that location
sinoe about Jammary lst, 193?. He stated that he was informed
by Mexioans that these Jeps were mapping. He further stated
that as he used to work dragging chain for an engineer, he is
familiar with that kind of work and that he thinks these Japs
were running survey lines for maps. However, he noticed that
instead of using chains for measuring distenees, the Japs were
using a dovice like a wheelbarrow but with no body on it, so
that when pushed over the ground the wheel clicked at every
revolution on the order of a speedometer on an auomobile. He
also stated that he was inforwed that shout three years age,
party of Japanese army engineere were mapping all of the Sierrs
Madre country in the vicinity of Sierre Pacheco and were working
morth towards the United States border, and that two of the
party of l4 Japs that he saw were in the party reported near
Sierra Pacheco three years ago. My informant stated that the
Momon settlers near Sierra Pacheco talk very freely regarding
this but as most of these Mommons are Mexioen citizens it will
be nesessary to be very careful in oase any investigation should
be made.
(signed) WM. NALLE
Pagor, deneral saf
1. . of 3., 2.

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.97)
0-2
CONFIDENTLA!
RHS/AKB
(COPY)
3/1766-0-76
February 11, 1932.
MEMORANDUM FOR THE AD JUTANT GENERAL:
Subjeot: Japanese Activities in Mexico.
The Secretary of War directs that a confidential letter
substantially as follows be sent to the Commanding General, 8th
Corps Area, Fort Sam Houston, Texas:
1. Receipt is acknowledged of letter dated
February 2, 1932, to the A. C. of S., 2, 8th Corps
Area, from the A. C. of S., G-2, First Cavalry Division,
Fort Bliss, Texas, forwarded by lst Indorsement from
your headquarters, February 4. 1932 (a-2 091 - Japan,
X 091 - Mexico).
2. The information contained in this letter
concerning the presence of fourteen Japanese engineers
on Jamuary 24, 1932, in the vicinity west of Pearson,
Chimahua, working with level and transit equipment,
and presumably engaged in mapping that strategic area,
adds considerable significance to previous reports of
similar activities of Japanese engineers in the State
of Sonora; also, the report that such activities were
carried on about three years ago in the Sierra Madre
country in the vicinity of Sierra Pacheco (Colonia
Pacheco), Chihuahua, and northward to the United States
border, is of further importance.
3. Confirmation of all the above information
is highly desirable, as is also further information con-
cerning any extension of Japanese activities in the
vicinity of the United States border. It is therefore
requested that you take such steps as are practicable
with the means at your disposal to follow up this matter
and keep this office advised of the results.
ALFRED T. SMITH,
Colonel, General Staff,
A. 0. of S., G2.

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.89)
February 17 1952.
540
CONFIDENTIAL - FOR STAFT USE ONLY.
3229
To the Amsrisan Ambassader,
Mezioo Gity, Mexico.
894.20212/322A
The Becretary of state refers to the Department's
confidential matirhnstruotion No. 537 of February 13,
1932, in regard to alleged Japanese aotivities in Mexico,
and informs the Ambassador that the War Department has
sent a further communiostion to the Military Attaché
of the Embassy, dated February 11, 1932, together with a
copy of a confidential report of recent date from the
office of the Division Commander at Fort Bliss, Texas,
and of a Memorandum for the Adjutant General, containing
additional information on the above-mentioned subjeot.
Confidential File
A true cy 
the signed orig
884.20212/
inal M
7E
HVg
Aor bu
MEIROTIHB
ge
in.m,H.
Vok
Feb.17 1932.
MW

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.94)
AIRMAIL
894.20212/322A SUPPLIMENTARY
bay18 10
543
CONEIDENTIAL - FOR STAFF USE ONLY
To the American Ambassador,
Mexioo City.
The Seoretary of State refers to the Department's
confidontial mail instruotion No. 540 of February 17,
1932, in regard to alleged Japanese activities in Mexico.
The War Department has today informally advised that
1ts communication of February 11, 1932, with enolosures,
referred to in the Department's inatruotion, was not in
Confidential File
faot sent to the Military Attaché of the Embassy. The
War Department has, however, forwarded to the Military
Attaohé a letter dated February 16, 1932, enclosing a
copy of a confidentiel report dated February 2, 1933,
from the office of the Division Commander at Fort Bliss,
Texas, containing additional information on the above-
mentioned subjeot.
894.20212/
FE
ME·RCT:CS
gae
A true copy of
the
m.m.H.
178
Feb. 18 1932. P.M.
wo

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.94)
February 27 1982.
549
CONFIDENTIAL- FOR STAVE USE ONLY
To the American Ambassador,
Mexico City.
The Seoretary of State refers to the Department's
eenfidential mail instruotion No. 543 of February 18,
894.20212
1932, in regard to alleged Japanese activities in Mexieo,
and eneloses herewith, for the information of the Ambas-
sador, a opy of a letter dated February 19, 1933, from
the Department of Justice, together with a copy of a
13
report submitted by a special agent of that Department,
323
containing additional information on the above-mentioned
subjeot.
Enclosure:
From Department of Justice,
dated February 19, 1932,
with enolosure.
Confidential File
894.20312/323
A true gopy of
7E
the signed orig-
心
ME:RCT:GS
hev But
Feb.26 1932.PM
OR
m.m.A.
RCJ

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.97)
894,20212/323

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.97)
ILITARY INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
WAR DEPARTMENT
Latin American Section
Secretary of War
Assistant Secretary of War
Assistant Secretary of War (Air)
-1
G-3
G-4
Divisi
War Plans Division
FAH EASIERN AFFAL
Statistics Branch
FEB 25 1932
Adjutant General's Dept.
Army Industrial College
Department of Stato
Army War College
Air Corps (Liaison Officer)
Cavalry
Chemical Warfare Service
Coast Artillery Corps
Corps of Engineers
Command & General Staff School
Field Artillery
Finance
Infantry
Inspector General's Dept.
Insular Affairs
Judge Advocate General's Dept.
Militia Bureau
Office of Naval Intelligence
Ordnance Dept.
Quartennaster General's Dept.
Signal Corps
Surgeon Genoral's Office
State Dept.:
Eastern Europe
Western Europe
Near East
Latin America
Far East
Mexican Affairs
Commerce Dept.:
Forcign & Domestic Commerce
Aeronautics
11
For your information and file
Note and return
Note and send to

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFLDENTLAL
(EXTRACT COPY)
(1766-0-76)
26
FAR EASIERAFFA
CONFIDENTIAL
FEB25 1932
RECEN
February 9, 1932.
COMM
No.-
3770.
Subjeot:
Japanese Activities En Mexico.
894.20212/32
To:
A. C. of S.. 2.
In reply to "Confidential" communications from
2 dated December 15, 17, 24, 31 and Jamuary 13, 1932, concerning
Japanese aotivities on the west coast of Mexice, * * * the follow-
ing is submitteds
2
4
As regards the mmber of Japanese who have recently
entered Mexico through Pacific Coast ports,- a contact of this office,
fairly reliable on other occasions, has reported that on Ootober 8.
1931, 30 Japanese, and on Ootober 22, 1931, 12 Japanese, a11 claiming
to be fishermen, did land in Guaymas, Sonora, and that they brought
in surveying, photographic, and mapping equipment. This same contact
also reported that between Ootober 22, 1931 and Jamuary 28, 1932, a
total of 3l6 Japanese entered Mexico through Pacific Coast ports.
In several conversations which the Aoting M/A has
had recently with Major Mammel J. Solis, a Mexioan aray officer who
served as Military Attache to Japan in 1927, 1928 and 1929, he has
stated that both General Calles and President Ortis Rubio are opposed
UO
to any colonisation schemes of the Japanese in Mexico. He stated that
in 1928 the Japanese Government proposed that if the Mexican Government
would permit the colonisation of Japanese on the Pacific Coast of Mex-
ico, from Topolobampo, Sinaloa, to Acapulco, Guerrero, the Japanese
Government would in return build dry docks, railroads, automobile roads
ete., without cost to Mexico. Major Solis stated that upon his return
to Mexico from Japan, in l929, he was consulted concerning this soheme.
by the Mexican Government, and that upon his recommendation, it was
turned down.
-1-
CONFIDTINE

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDEN
Major Solis also stated that the Mexican Govern-
ment's Irrigation Commission, which is charged with the coloniza-
tion of the large trasts of land that are being reclaimed, will
give preference to Mexicans, because foreigners are unable to enter
Mexico as laborers  account of the present restrictive immigration
law passed last year.
Robert E. Oummings,
Captain.Infantry, DOL.
Acting Military Attache.
c/p
-2-

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.95)
ME
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
CJH
MEXICO CITY
carefully paraphrase
before beine communicated
Dated February 27, 1932
to anyone.
Rec'd. 10:36 p..
FFAIRS
FEB 29 1932
Tlepartben of State.
Secretary of State
Orpartiment of Stato
6.1
7
Washington.
C
R
49, Fobruary 27, 5 p.m.
894.20212/325Confidential File
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL.
NOT FOP GEF RAL DIS TRIBU TION.
One. Hilitary Attache has ruceived telcgram
from War D vartment advisins him that Robert Dulan, Navy
Resorves, will visit District of Sonora as a civilian
on vacation to report to Naval Intelli ence on Japanese
enginecring activities in arca.
Two. Party named visited me at the Embassy this
morning.
Three. I uxplained to him following viows:
a. That his mission would almost certainly
become known to Moxican authorites;
That already some ind icutions of irrita-
tion over visit of naval vessels and
planes on Mexican west coast (Embassy
811.3312/194
811.3310/298
telcerams 46, 11 a.m. and 47, 5 p.m.,
both of February 26, 1932);
c. That knowledge of a secret mission of sort
apparently

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.98)
CJH
#49 from Mexico City.
apparontly contemplated by Nvy might
causc further irritation if such
knowledge came otherwise than by a
direct notification from the Embassy;
d. That possibly direct notification to
Mexican authorities mi&ht result in
assistance from the Government in
view of the attitude of both Minister
Tellez and General Calles when the
matter was brought to their attention
(Exb.ssy's telegram No. 35, 3 p6m.
Febru:ry 6, 1932);
e. Th t under the circumstances I must
submit to the Dupartment for its
instructions whother I should notify
the Moxican Government of his mission
or whother I should permit hin to
proceed without such notifiction.
Four. Furty desires to leuve for Senora early in
coming weck. He states that po sibly notificution to
Government misht be of assistance to him in his work.
Five. Will the Department please instruct me?
CLARK
KLP
ARL

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.95)
LEGAL ADVISER
MAR 4 1932
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Ensenada, B.C., Mexico, February 20, 1932.
SUBJECT:
Reporting: Incident Involving Japanese Fish-
ing Vessel KAmNL and American Cannery Ten-
der VERGANA.
No
1.6
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STAT,
川
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
I have the honor to inform the Department that
the Master of the American Cannery Tender VERGANA,
π
Official Number 161792, registered at Los Angeles,
California, reported to the Consulate this morning
JR
an incident involving the Japanese fishing vessel
DEPT. OF STATT
894.20212/326
KAMINE.
The VERGANA arrived at insenada last evening,
Tbruary 19, 1932, and the KAINE during the night.
This morning the two vesscls were unchored near
ach other. At utout : St or : oo a.., the KAmINE
ran up the Japanese flag. Owin to the fact that
the KAMINE has "san Die go" printed on its stern, as
its home port, those on the VsRGalia assumed that it
was an merican. vessel, und the Mate of the V RGANA
hailed the KAMINE and oruered the Master thereof to
take down the Japanese fla, and to run up the Ameri-
can flag.
The aster of the KAMINE complied with
the order.
The Japanese fishing vessel KaZUYo which also
had arrived during the night, was flyin the Ameri-
can flag, according to the report of the Master of
the VERGANA..
The

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
The Consulate believes that the incident passed
unnoticed by port authorities and by all others ex-
cepting the members of the crews of the two Japanese
vessels and the VERGANA and one or two seamen on a
vessel engaged in the liquor trade. For this reason
the Consulate hesitates to make an investigation which
might lead to publicity and will await the Department's
instruction in the matter.
The Master of the VERGANA has been cautioned
against taking action or permitting any member of his
crew to take action not authorized by existing United
States laws or regulations.
It is the Consulate's understanding that the name
of the port printed on the stern of any vessel, known
as the home port, is the port where that vessel is
registered by the government whose flag it has the
right to fly. If this is the case, it would appear
to the Consulate that the appropriate authorities at
San Pedro and San Diego might wish to examine into the
right of Japanese fishing vessels to indicate a home
port in the United States.
Respectfully yours,
Wm. A. Smale,
American Consul.
885.
WAS/jan
In quintuplicate to the Department.
Copy to the Consula te General.
Copy for the mbassy.

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.98)
ILITARY INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
WAR DEPARTMENT
Latin American Section
Secretary of War
Assistant Secretary of War
Assistant Secretary of War (Air)
G11
G-3
G-4
War Plans Division
Statistics Branch
Adjutant General's Dept.
Army Industrial College
Army War College
Air Corps (Liaison Officer)
Cavalry
Chemical Warfare Service
Coast Artillery Corps
Corps of Engineers
Command & General Staff School
Field Artillery
Finance
Infantry
Inspector General's Dept.
Insular Affairs
Judge Advocate General's Dept.
Militia Bureau
Office of Naval Intelligence
Ordnance Dept.
Quarternaster General's Dept.
Signal Corps
Surgeon General's Office
I State Dept.:
Eastern Europe
Western Europe
Near East
Latin America
Far East
Mexican Affairs
Commerce Dept.:
Forcign & Domestic Commerce
Aeronautics
For your information and file
Note and return
Note and send to

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.93)
0-2
1/
0-2/1766-0-76
FIA FASTERN AFFAIR
FFB2
February 23, 1932.
27 1932.
dnsteuction to merico
2/27/32
Subject: Japanese Activities on the West Coast.
IAC1.
To:
Military Attache, American Embassy, Mexico Citf, Mexico.
1. with reference to previous commanications from this
office on the above subject, and to your letter No. 3770 of Feb-
ruary 9, 1932, the fellowing supplementary data are enclosed for
your informatiom:
894.20212/327
a. Excerpts from recent correspondence
received in this office.
b. Copy of letter dated February 6, 1932,
from the Intelligence Officer, Camp
Stephen D. Little, Nogales, Arizona,
te the G-2, 8th Corps Area, Fort Sam
Houston, Texas, enclosing translation
of article appearing in "El Noroeste",
Bogales, Sonora, February 2, 1932, con-
taining Japanese propaganda.
2. Copies of this correspondence are being furnished the
Department of State and the Office of Naval Intelligence.
For the A. C. of S., G-2:
W. H. SIMPSON,
Major, G.S.,
cp
Executive Officer, G-2.
2 Incls., as stated.
C
3
COPY FOR STATE DEPARTYENT.
ONFDENT
File

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
EXCERPTS PROM RECENT CORRESPONDENCE
RECEIVED IN MILITARY INTELLIGENCE DIVISION.
Tijuana, Baja California, Mexico.
Jammary 27, 1932.
" * * * for three months there has been at this place a group of
15 Japanese, and I was much surprised to learn that all of them are
Japanese army officers of high rank, and that three of them are military
engineers, who, from their camp, 'El Real' de Castillo, and from this
place, have made explorations and drawings in a secret manner of the
territory extending from San Diego, California, to Bahia Msgdalena, Mexi-
co, by sea as well as by land. This work was carried out by them dis-
guised as fishermen or other persons, and I am sure that all this was done
with the aid and consent of the Mexican Government.
"Tou may recall, * * * that during the recent World War, there was
located at this same place chosen for the Japanese camp, a German secret
wireless station * * * and * * * the Germans * * * at that time, similar
to the Japanese now here, were disguised as mining prospectors. Although
the Mexican immigration authorities were fully aware that the above-men-
tioned Japanese disembarked without filling out the necessary papers, there
being no immigration office here, nevertheless the Japanese were not molest-
ed at all."
(Excerpt from letter to Secretary of War from Mexican of unknown reli-
ability.)
San Diego, California,
February 1, 1932.
"For the past month there has been considerable activity on the part
of Japanese in this neighborhood, not only in San Diego but at various
points along the Mexican Coast to the South. Just what this means I am
not prepared to say. It is possible that it only means the return of
certain selected reservists to Japan and nothing more. * * * Some days
age a party of about twenty-five (25) Japanese men, all of the better
class, under charge of one of their mumber who made all arrangements and
paid all bills, went by train North. Judicious questioning brought forth
the fact that their destination was the Orient. About the same time e
similar party was gathered in Ensenada, Lower California, and departed
on a north bound coastwise steamer for Los Angeles. As I say these men
are probably reservists being recalled for military duty. Investigation
in and about San Diego, where there are comparatively few Japenese reri-
dents, does not reveal that any of these men came from this vicinity and

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.98)
ONFIDENTLA
I have not yet discovered from what part of this country or of Lower
California they came. On a guess I should say the Imperial Valley
but I do not kmow. In addition to this, scattered information from
points along the Gulf of Lower California seem to indicate that there
is an increased activity among Japanese fishermen at certain points
which the business in which they are concerned does not seem to
justify.
"I have not yet had time or opportunity to check this information
thoroughly but hope to do so in the near future. It would seem absurd
to imagine that Japan was planning any move on this Coast at this time
but * * * you will realize that it is much better to be over-ceutious
than it is te ignore indications of Japanese activity in this neighber-
hood when they crep up. * * *"
(Exoerpt from letter to A.0. of S., G-2, W.D., from thoroughly re-
liable source.)
"I find the Japanese have evacuated. I could not find a trace
of a single one. Just what has become of them, nobody seems to know."
(Excerpt frem report on general conditions in Sinaloa and Sonora -
ceived from a reliable informant of G-2, First Cavalry Division, Fort
Bliss, Texas, and forwarded February 4, 1932.

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIA
(COPY)
(2657-H-390)
1
OFFICE OF THE INTELLIGENCE OFFICER
Camp Stephen D. Little, Nogales, Arizona
February 6th, 1932.
Subject: Mexican Information.
To:
Assistant Chief of Staff G-2, Eighth Corps Area, Fort Sam
Houston, Texas.
Enclosed herewith is a translation of an article appearing
in "El Noroeste", a Mexican newspaper printed in Nogales, Sonora, on
February 2nd. Other articles with regard to wer between Japan and the
United States have appeared in some of the Mexican papers, but this is
the most vitriolio one that has come out so far.
(signed) GILBERT PROCTER,
Gilbert Procter,
Captain 25th Infantry.
Intelligence Officer.
CONFIDENTIAL
(Rec'd A.C. of S., G-2, Feb. 10, 1932)

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.98)
(COPY)
(2657-H-390)
1
Translation of
Artiele appearing in "El Noroeste", Nogales, Sonora, under date of
February 2, 1932.
(de Revistas de Revistas)
WAR BETWEEN JAPAN AND THE UNITED STATES IS INEVITABLE.
By: Lt. Gen. Kio Katsin Kato.
The opinion which Lt. General Kiokatsu Sato, at the present time
in the reserve, expresses herein will, undoubtedly, surprise many persons
who ignore the deep sentiments of the Japanese military party. We are
publishing it exactly as it was transmitted to us, in spite of the impre-
catory violence of some of its passeges, precisely because it very accu-
rately represents the belief of a big majority of the chiefs of the Japan-
ese anmy and navy and of the political men who are its interpreters.
More than a quarter of a century has transpired since the Russian-
Japanese War. The Japanese nation, during this time, has been dreaming
the sweet dreams of peace.
The Japanese race had assumed, with perfect confidence, the mission
of directing the destinies of the Extreme Orient. But now we have lost
our confidence and forgotten our mission. We have pemitted ourselves to
be dragged down and seduoed by the pleasures of the heur and by the ex-
terior signs of a national civilization. We no longer think of the ideas
of our Emperor Meiji nor of the memories left in our ennals by the great
men of his epoch.
During this time, on the other side of the Pacific, the United States
of America have inaugurated a policy of conspiracy and intrigue directed
against the task and mission which concerne us in Asia. The United States
have elaberated a plan which has as its object that they alone occupy all
of China, and they are making rapid strides toward the realization of their
plan.
The first thing whioh they undertook was the expulsion of all of the
Japanese from Chinese territory and by this means, they were able to secure
the good will of the Chinese government. Then, they told themselves that
they must rely upon their military strength in order to obtein control of
the affairs of China. Therefore, they adopted a policy of naval expansion.
Everywhere in China they have established centers of power so that
the course of their ections might have weight. American capital is spread
over the entire nation. without taking into consideration the sphere of
Japanese influence and the rights which the Japanese nation has acquired
and is justly entitled to, their activities continue and they do not stop
CONETOEET

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.98)
CONEIDUNT
before any obstacles that may arise.
Furthermore, our countrymen were el iminated from America. The
Japanese residing on the western coast of th United States were treated
with cruelty and rudeness, and although they have sobbed with hunger and
cold, we have turned a deaf ear to their pleas.
The United States government has wounded the pride of the Japanese
nation. They have taken advantage of its dignity. And, in spite of all,
we pretend to ignore all these things.
Although the United States government has stepped all over the rights
which Japan acquired in Manchuria and in Mongolia, through untold sacrifice
and suffering, we have withheld our enger and our indignation.
We remained completely indifferent when the American government
forced us to renounce our claims to Tsingtae, which our soldiers occupied
after a most diffioult and stremuous battle. They also forced us to eva-
cuate the province of Shantung.
The United States government forced us to denounce the anglo-japanese
allianee, which was the muclous of our international policy end which we
had formed after laborious efforts which lested many years. And, yet, our
nation has not trembled with rage.
Finally, using the Disarmament Conference as an excuse, the Americen
government violated the sovereignty of the Japanese nation. They forced
us to abdicate even the right to defend ourselves. Notwithstending, the
Japanese nation did not protest with loud indignation. Have the Japanese
lost all sensibility? Have they lost their feelings?
If we take a retrospective glance over the history of our race during
the last three thousand years, we will see that our ancestors always placed
honor above everything else. we will see that our ancestors always sacri-
ficed themselves, they exerted themselves and geve their very lives for the
good of their country.
When we look at the Japanese race of today, what is it we see? We
have been insulted in every way possible by a neighboring nation. That
nation has prosecuted us; it has spat our eyes; has thrown mud in our face;
has kicked us; has beaten us; has lashed us and has covered us with blows.
Evidently, we do not feel any of this. The fact that we permit our-
selves to be treated thus, is no longer a sign of patienoe, nor modesty,
nor humility. In truth. it is a disgrace and a humiliation. The Japanese
race shall not bear with meekness, treatment such as this!
We detest the Japanese government that, because of indecision and
weakness, has tolerated such injuries and duses. However, we should detest,
oven with more hatred, the government of the United States.

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.97)
CONPTAN
We cannot help but detest and despise those people who, depending
solely on their wealth, have forgotten all about justice and equality.
soorning/the principles of Humanity itself.
We cannot help but detest those people whose words are always
sweet and flattering, while their astions are inhuman and unjust in the
highest degree. There is no pardon for such things. In the name of
moral equality, we should proclaim ourselves agents from heaven whose
work it is to punish the guilty.
If they want to perpetuate the existence of their race, the Japanese
must diffuse themselves and evolve over the entire Asiatic continent.
In order to insure the existenae of our nation, we must pursue a
plan of vigorms economic expansion in the Extreme Orient.
We no longer have room in our country for a population of seventy
million inhabitants. And outside of our demographic sphere, we must elso
develop our commercial and industrial possibilities. We also lack room
for further development here.
Japan's only hope is the Asiatic continent on which our future
depends. Only on it can be insured our very life and the existence of
our race.
However, in that very region on which we must build our hopes and
our future, America is already realizing many vast projects and is pre-
paring to take control of Asia.
Unless we destroy the ambitions of that country end unless we
punish them for their infustice, our souls shall know no peace even
after we have left this earth.
If we take a look backward, we see that we have already made war
with China because of the corean situation. We again fought China
because of the mandchu situation. For the problems thst are of interest
to the existence of our race and our actions as a nation, making abstrac-
tion of our personal conveniences, we have always gone to war to regain
our just rights.
The Japanese nation loves peace. We detest war. However, when we
think of the problems which are so closely connected with our lives and
with the existence and future of our race, we see that we must necesserily
make war.
At the present time we are considering to fix un conditions by means
of diplomatic negotiations. However, circumstances will, undoubtedly,
finally foroe us to make war against America. A war between Japan and the
一3-

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.96)
United States is the inevitable destiny of our nation! The Japanese
nation must convince itself of the truth of this?
When we observe the present conditions of our country, when we
medfate on the conditions of other countries and we think of the future
of our own country, we cannot refrain a feeling of uneasiness.
Rage fills our hearts. We must accept these happenings just as
they are, and impress them firmly in our spirits.
一4一

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.93)
February 27 1982.
322a
894.20212
552
ELDENTIAL- TOR STAKE USE ONLY
To the American Ambassador,
Mexico City.
The Seoretary of State refers to the Department's
894.20212/327A
confidential mail instruotion No. 543 of February 18,
1933, in regard to alleged Japenese activities in Mexioo
and informs the Ambassador that the War Department has
sent a oonfidential letter to the Military Attmché of
the Embassy, dated February 23, 1932, transmitting excerpts
from correspondence on the above mentioned subjeot recently
received by the War Department, together with a copy of
a communication dated February 6, 1932, from the Intelligenoe
Officer at Camp Stephen D. Little, Nogales, Arizona, enolos-
ing a tranelation of a newspaper artiele disoussing the
relations between the United States and Japan.
Confidential File
À true copy of
e signed orig
inal.
Ar
ME:RCT: GS
FE
Nev But
yKe
0b. 27. 1982.

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.96)
Divion of
FAR EASTERNA
RH
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
This telegram must be
Department of State
closely paraphrased before
MEXICO CITY
being cormunicated to anyone.
m
FROM
Dated March 2, 1932
894.20212/328
Rec'd. 7.05 pm
SECRETARY OF STATE
WASHINGTON
P VISICN OF
Buut
51, March 2, 11 a.m.
?2
Referring to my telegram No. 49, February 27, 5 p.m.,
1932, and to my telephonic convcrsation with Herschel
Johnson on the morning of March 1, 1932.
One. I saw Mr. Dunn at 11:30 on the morning of March
1, l932, after my conversation with Herschel Johnson.
Two. I explained to him that Captain Bagley reported
that Dunn was not on any special mission for the Navy;
Confidential File
that he was merely a tourist whom the Captain had asked,
as he would any tourist, to report any information he mi ht
obtain; that this being Dunn's status, Captain Baglcy did
not wish Dunn's visit to be reported to the Mexican
Government as a secret navy mission; and that if Dunn's
visit as a tourist would causc the Embassy embarrassment,
the Captain would recall him.
Three.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
rh #2 of No. 51 from Mexico City
Three. Mr. Dunn confirmed that he was merely a
visitor and was not on a secret navy mission; that he in-
tended merely to look and listen and not to make inquiries
or special investigations; that he was willing that I
should inform the Mexican officials of his visit.
Four. I replied that in view of the wish expressed
by Captain Baglcy, I did not feel frce to communicate the
matter to the Mexican authorities; that on his statement and
that of Captain Bagley, he was only a tourist and that I
could not undertake to notify the Mexican authorities about
every tourist who came here with the intention of telling
what he saw and heard when he returned to the United
States; and that therefore he might go as any other tourist,
the Embassy taking no further note of the matter, but
that I hoped he would be careful.
OLARK
KLP
WWC

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.92)
March 12 1982.
CONFIDENTIAL - FOR STAFF USE ONLY.
577
To the American Ambassador,
Mexioo City, Mexico.
The Secretary of State refers to the Department's
confidential mail instruction No. 552 of February 27,
894.20212/329
1932, in regard to alleged Japanese aotivities in Mexico,
and enoloses herewith, for the confidential information
of the Ambassador, a copy of a letter dated March 4, 1932,
from the Department of Justice, together with a copy of a
report dated February 25, 1932, submitted by a speoial
agent of the Department of Justice, containing additional
information on the above-mentioned subjeot.
Enolosure:
From Department of Justice,
A true sopy of
dated Maroh 4, 1932, with
enclosure.
the signed orig-
394.20213/329
Klu.
1241932.
HUJ
FE
MEIROT;HB
T su
XP

=== Page 96 === (confidence 1.00)
894.20212/329

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20212/330
SEE894.24/48
FORDespatch # 1279
FROM
Mexico
(Clark
.) DATED Feb. 29, 1932.
TO
NAME
1--1127
REGARDING:
Arrival of Japanese agents in Mexico for the
purpose of purchasing foodstuffs for the
Japanese army.
hs
12
ω

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.83)
Mexioo, Fetruary 29, 1932.
1279
No.
ub1get:
Purghase of podatufre By Jepenese Agente In
Roxico.
The Honoreble
The soretary f
eshington.
ir:
As of pomnibie inter stt, tre
e:artment.
hove the honreneloee  rana inws
iten from
ine thet eom eroin "cents the Japanese ovorn
mont have arrived t aretlorto rpuse of
purehasine foodstuffs fr ne Japanene ur y.
Yeeterday's oarrivd a despatc
from Juadalajore stet i that Je panen a ents are
buying beans on a large semle  thet ropion,
(Jeli000)

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.79)
(Jaliseo).
Another despaton in the meme paper from
have arrived here fr ts prpees  uying large
quantitles of beans.
atben
ark, 
molosure:
Transio
a5
71eopon.
JC:B

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.89)
1279
nolosure to des pateh number
of ebmary 29, 1952.
from the mbazmy at Moxico City.
(Wowe 1tm - C IR - Fruary 6, 1932)
They propose to to puire foodetuffs
to supply the (righting) forees of
their country
Vory enoourmging priva:
eports wore reeeived yes-
tare t thin
e ite from azatlan to the rfmo that
at that port on the molfio and other points in the
tates
of inalon ond onora have'mrrived comm roial agente vith
 vlew to  akin contreets for enormous uantities of
foodetuffs, espeoielly -hrimp, dried tommtoos, salt fish,
chiek-pes, eto., to supply the foroms of the Japanome
rmy engeged in :he campolgn in hina.
These reporte, comins from
lleble sourees, for
they
were ent by morohante to houeas ith whor hey
deal in chis
ity, see t no l thn tontyrivo
agonte a ve rived in tho e e lone rom the nited
tates. fors bueines  oi one through bosin
houeesalmneerleta tm lished in the nl e tteo
for the purpoee steed.
he roport in
uee ton an the presence n Vazntlán
of one of theee agrnte will cauee the fn min end fishing
industries on the
Relfie comnt to r"joloe, or i =ill
not be lomg before thos- rovioms or sxleo will be flooded
supply
with money reoeived for their ro uots sent to/the Japenese
rmy, a wreat port or he su liee for whieh will be se-
oured from our territory.
nce the

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.83)
nee the merehan iee ls read or export, the con
treetors will ship t to its Mestimatlon n vessels of
the apeneee shipoins compony, hinto ru," whicb rune
a servior batween the nited Atstew and outh merleen
porte, only rarely touohins oxien ports on the eeifio
apthnt
Tronalet by
心

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.93)
March 16 1982.
In reply refer to
ME 894.20212/331
The Honorable
The Attorney General.
Sir:
The Department acknowledges the receipt of your
894.20212/331
letter of Maroh 9, 1932, transmitting a copy of a report
dated February 26, 1932, submitted by Speoial Agent W. M.
Bott, Los Angeles, California, in the case entitled
"Unknown subjeots. Neutrality laws."
A copy of your letter and of its enolosure, with the
name of the special agent omitted therefrom, has been
forwarded to the Amerioan Ambassador at Mexioo Oity for
his confidential information.
Very truly yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
JAMES GRAFTON ROGERS
0R
cnrdential File
Assistant Secretary.
LE
7E
A true copy of
ME:ROT:HB
the sigued grig-
Bea
9KS
grn
om

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.95)
Marcn 16 1602.
579
CONFIDENTIAL - FOR STAFF USE ONLY.
To the American Ambassador,
Mexico Oity, Mexico.
The Seoretary of State refers to the Department's
894.20212/33
confidential mail instruotion No. 577 of Maroh 12, 1932,
in regard to alleged Japanese activities in Mexioo,and
encloses herewith, for the confidential information of
the Ambassador, a copy of a letter dated Maroh 9, 1932,
from the Department of Justice, together with a copy of
3
a report dated February 26, 1932, submitted by a speoial
agent of the Department of Justice, containing additional
information on the above-mentioned subjeot.
It will be noted that a portion of the special agent's
report refers to alleged plans of a group of Mexican gen-
erals, some of whom are said to be in the United States,
to overthrow the present Government of Mexico.
Confidential File
Enclosure:
From Department of Justice,
MAR
March 9, 1932, with enolosure.
894.20212/331
trme copy of
the gned orig-
LE
::H
AT Blat
1558
m.m.10.

=== Page 104 === (confidence 1.00)
894.20212/331

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.95)
894.20212/332

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.98)
MILITARY INTELLIGENCE DIVIS.
WAR DEPART.ENT
Latin American Section
Secretary of War
Assistant Secretary of War
Assistant Secretary of War (Air)
G-1
G-3
G-4
War Plans Division
Statistics Branch
Adjutant General's Dept.
Army Industrial College
Army War College
Air Corps (Liaison Officer)
Cavalry
Chemical Varfare Service
Coast Artillery Corps
Corps of On ineers
Command & General Staff School
Field Artillery
Finance
Infantry
Inspector General's Dept.
Insular Affairs
Judge Advocate General's Dept.
Militia Bureau
Office of Naval Intelligence
Ordnance Dept.
Quartermaster General's Dept.
Signal Corps
Surgcon Gener l's Office
State Dent.:
Eastorn Lurope
Western Lurope
Near East
Latin America
Far East
Mexican Affairs
Commerce Dopt.:
Foreign & Domestic Commerce
Aeronautics
For your information and file
Note and return
Note an send to

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.97)
G-2
RHS/AKB
CONFIDENTIAL
0-2/1766-0-76
APB 2
April 19, 1932.
Subject: Japanese Activities on the West Coast of Mexico.
To:
Military Attache, American Embassy, Mexico City, Mexico.
1. There is quoted below, as of interest in connection
with previous correspondence relative to Japanese activities on the
West Coast of Mexico, an excerpt from a report of the Commanding
94.20212
Officer, Camp Stephen D. Little, Nogales, Ariz., dated April 1l,
1932:
"Today the Intelligence Officer had occasion to
go to Lomas, Sonora, where the Sixteenth Mexican Infantry,
General Juan Felipe Rico in command, is stationed. He was
accompanied by Mr. C. Palacios Rohi, Mexican Consul, and
G.R. Michaels, Secretary of the Nogales Chamber of Commerce.
They were not there on official business, but went to see
3
General Rico about the Rodeo to be held in Nogales next
Saturday.
33
"At Lomas they were greeted by General Rico who
introduced them to a Japanese Naval Captain and some of his
staff. The Japanese Naval Captain was reviewing the troops
and one of his staff was taking moving pictures on a 16 mm.
moving picture camera. There were five Japanese in the party.
After the troops had finished their drill the Japanese were
escorted over the camp, and one of them was taking notes all
the time. Upon their return to Headquarters, Officers Call
was blowm, and the assembled offic ers introduced to the Jap-
anese Captain. He spoke a few words to each one, and was
shown great deference by the Mexican officers. He spoke
both English and Spanish well, and told the Intelligence
Officer that he had been in the World War. When he left,
the Guard was turned out and a call sounded on the bugle.
It is believed that he must have been there in an official
capacity, otherwise the troops would not have been turned
out for him. He was accompanied by the editor of 'm Nor-
oeste', a very pro-Japanese Mexican newspaper, and a local
Japanese from Nogales, Sonora, whose name will be produred
later.
" * * * General Rico was in civilian clothes, a
were the Japanese officers."
COPY FOR STATE DEPARTMENT
-1-

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.93)
CONFIDENT
2. A subsequent report fran the G-2, Headquarters First
Cavalry Division, Fort Bliss, Texas, dated April 14, 1932, contained
the following information:
"Reliable infommation has been received that a
Japanese alien Kehio Ochi, Japanese Naval Captain, arrived
in Nogales, Arizona, on the 9th instant enroute to Mexico
City to Join the Japenese Legation as Naval Attache. My
informant stated that Captain Och1 expected to be in No-
gales, Mexico, two or three days."
3. It appears not unlikely that Capt. Kohio Ochi is the
Japanese naval officer referred to in paragraph 1, al though this has
not been definitely ascertained to date.
4. Copy of this correspondence is being furnished the De
partment of State, Office of Naval Intelligence, and -2, 9th Corps
Area.
W. H. WILSON,
Colonel. General Staff,
Acting Exeoutive Officer,2.
Cp
2
PTOT
-2-

=== Page 109 === (confidence 1.00)
894.20212/334

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 22, 1932.
SKaIT
Mexico's strictly confidential
despatch No. 1678 of July 15, 1932,
deals with reported Japanese
propaganda and aotivities in Mexico.
It forwards a pamphlet written
by a General Merigo entitled "The
Yankee-Japanese War and the Attitude
of Mexico". Suoh a war is inevitable
and the Mexioan people would vote in
favor of fighting against the United
States, eto.,eto. (The contents of
this pamphlet are outlined on page 2
of the despatch.) General Merigo has
at present no official position.
A representative of, General
Enriquez called at the Embassy with
regard to the General's plans to
contradict propaganda in Mexico of
the Japanese Minister and of Merigo.
This representative said that the
Japanese Minister in Mexico City
paid Merigo $10,000 for the printing
and distribution of the pamphlet.
The despatoh enoloses a
memorandum of a conversation between
the

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
the American Aoting Military Attache
and the Japanese Naval Attaohe,
during whioh the latter seemed to
show thorough familiarity with
Merigo's past history and activities.
There also disoussed the arrest
by the Mexioan authorities of five
Japanese fishermen in Sonora which
seems to link up withprevious reports
of Japanese fishermen who had been
reported to be.making soundings in
the Gulf of California, etc.
There is also enolosed a sheet
printed in Spanish that is in
defense of the Japanese monarchy.
At the bottom of the sheet there is
some Japanese writing which has
nothing to do with the United States
in any way.
ZA
LES:EJL

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.92)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Iexico, July 15, 1932.
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL.
No. 1678
Subject:
Japanese Prooaganda and Activities in Mexico.
F/HS
THE UNDER SECRETARY
J0. 20 52
WAyG 4 1032
PM RECO
DEPARTMENT OF SIATE
894.20212/
file wp
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
 8311 193
AJUL 21 1832
POUOS SNU
N
Department of State
30
Ci
3.21511
The Honorable
5
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to my despatch Ho. 142e of April 19,
1932, and to other correspondence coneernin" the policy
of Texico in the event of war between the United States
1/
and Japan, I have the honor to enelose a copy of a memo-
randum of conversation dated May 16, 1932, between :r.
Aguirre, of this inbassy, and r. Jimón aez, concern-
ins a proposal of Jeneral :anuel . Enriquez/ to counter-
act the propaganda in Mexico o the Japanese  inister
FIL
and a Texican General named Juan Vérigo.
copy f a
ED
confidential biocraphy of enerul  ériso furnishesby
2
2/
the office of the ilitary ttaché is alsq enclosed.
The

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
The pamphlet entitled, "La Guerra Yankee-Japonesa y
la Actitud de Mexico", mentioned in Ir. Aguirre's
memorandum, was left by Mr. Baez with the Embassy
for a day or two only, when it was returned to ir.
Baez.
It was not until within a few days ago that
the Embassy obtained adcitional copies of this pam-
3/
phlet, one copy of which is enclosed for the Depart-
ment's information.
A second copy is held in the
files of the Embassy.
These copies were obtained
for the Embassy by the Acting : ilitary Attaché, who
has forwarded several of them to the .ar Department.
The Department will note that in this pamphlet
General érigo first discusses the factors leading
up to the Ruso-Japanese war and then briefly des-
cribes the war itself.
He then goes on to state
that most o the countries of the worl, including
Japan and Mexico, hate the United States, and that
a war between the United states and Japan is in-
evitable.
Ye thereafter states that in such a war
lexico cannot be neutral;
that if Japan should win
it would return to Mexico the territory taken from
it by the United States, but that if the United
States should win, 'exico and other Iatin-American
countries would become its vassals;
that the 'exi-
can people would vote in favor of war against the
United States; that the U.S..R. would like the
United States f r an ally against Japan; that the
United States woula be pleased to have war declared
between the U.S.3.R. and Japan, whereupon the United
States would at once declare war upon Japan;
and
finally that Japan ought to declare war on the United
States

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
States at once, as a delay might be fatal in that it
would give the United States time to make sufficient
preparations t) win the war.
4/
There is also enclosed a printed sheet entitled,
"Algo Sobre la 'onarquia Japonesa", by Kinta Arai,
which the Embassy has received from the American Con-
sul at San Luis Potosí.
The contents of this sheet
are of no particular interest, being a defense of the
Japanese monarchy.
However, this sheet is forwarded
to the Department because of the possibility that the
Japanese text at the bottom may be of interest.
ith reference to my strictly confidential tele-
gram No. 35 of February 6 (3: 00 p.m.) 1932, and t) the
Department's confidential instruction Mo. 577 of  arch
12, and to other correspondence regarding alleged
Japanese activities in lexico, I have the honor to en-
5/
close a copy of a strictly confidential memorundum
dated July 13, 1932, which I have received from the
Acting ilitary Attaché f the mbassy.
The epart-
ment will note th t in the conversation which the Act-
ing Tilitary Attaché hud with the Ja anese aval At-
taché, the urrest of certain apanese fishermen by
Lexicen authorities in sonora was discussed, as was
also the aforementioned pamphlet, "La uerra Yankee-
Japonesa y la Actitud de  exico", of which a copy is
enclosed.
Respectfully yours,
Mubur Ceard 
.euben lark, Jr.
Enclosures:
1. Copy of a memorandun of conversatiun had by :r.
Aguirre on May 16, 1932, with r. Simón Baez.
2. Copy of a confidential biography of ex-
Brigadier

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.95)
- 4 -
Brigadier General Juan Iérigo.
3. One copy of pamphlet, "La Cuerra Yankee-
Japonesa y la Actitud de :exico".
4. One copy of a printed sheet entitled, "Algo
Sobre la  onarquía Japonesa".
5. Copy of a strictly conridential memorandum for
the Ambussador dated Tuly 13, 1932, from the
Acting ilitary ttaché  the Tmbassy.
JM
710 U.3. - Jan.
J:B

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
1678
of July 15,
closure No. 1 , to despatch No.
1932, from the Embassy at Mexico City.
( C O P Y )
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION
MR. AGUIRRE
CONFIDENTIAL.
May 16, 1932.
With Señor Simón Baez.
lir. Baez called at the Chancery at 12 noon and
stated that he had been sent here by General Manuel
F. Enriquez, of Santisima No. 4, San Angel, to spe ak with
someone in the Embassy regarding General Enriquez' plans
to contradict the propaganda in Mexico of the Japanese
Minister and a Mexican General named Juan Merigo, who is
the author of the attached pamphlet entitled "La Guerra
Yankee-Japonesa y la Actitud de Mexico".
Señor Baez told me categorically that the Japanese
Minister in Mexico City had paid to General Juan Merigo
the sum of $10, o00.- dollars for the printing and dis-
tributing of the article mentioned above, an d that it
was General Enriquez' purpose to visit the United States
and obtain material with which to combat this propagan-
da, and he was desirous of enlistin& the cooperation
of the Embassy to this end.
SEA:H

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.99)
1678
of July 15, 1932,
hclosure No. 2 to despatch No.
from the Embassy at Mexico City.
(C O P Y)
CONFIDENTIAL.
Biographical data of ex-Brigadier General Juan Mérigo,
who at present does not occupy any position in the public
·Administration.
General Juan érigo was born in Mexico City and is
50 years of age. He received his early education in
private and Government schools of this City.
In the year 1907 he entered the lilitary College of
Chapultepec, graduating in 1909 as a Sub-Lieutenant of
Infantry, being assigned (causó alta) to the 2lst In-
fantry Battalion.
In the year 1910, for reasons unknown, he left the
Army, but in l9ll joined the revolutionary movement
headed by Francisco I. adero.
In 1912, he received his discharge, together with a
bounty payment of 200.00 pesos.
In 1913 he joined the revolutionary movement headed
by Venustiano Carranza, with the rank of Captain 1st
Class, of Artillery, rising rapidly until, in August
1914, he was promoted to a Colonel and made Chief of the
Artiilery of the Army of the East, com anded by General
Pablo Gonzalez.
In the year 1915, he rose to the rank of Brigadier
General and organized the Brigade which was known by his
name "Brigada Hérigo". In the year 1917 he left the
command of this Brigade and was made Chief of the De-
partment of Artillery or the Department of War and
Marine.
In the year l920 he was relieved as Chief of the
Department of Artillery, and dropped fron the Army.
(Reports are t the effect that he was dropped because
he opposed the Plan de Agua Prieta and refused to join
the Obregonista movement which overthrew President
Carranza).
General Mérigo has taken part in 91 combats and
during his service in the Army was greatly loved by his
men. He is extremely well posted on military affairs.
In the year 1923 he went to Spain, well recommended by
the Minister of that country in Mexico, in order to take
part in the war against the Moors in Morroco, but it
turned out that he went intending to serve as a General,
to which the Spanish Government would not consent.
General

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
General Mérigo now devotes himself to his private
affairs.
In the Territory of Quintana Roo he held a Chicle
concession; and later became the principal stockholder
in a banana industry, sending enormous shipments of
bananas to the United States from the State of Veracruz.
It was reported at one time that he was a member
of the "Grey Automobile" Band (Banda del Automovil Gris),
a gang of thieves which operated in this Capital in 1915
and 1916.
He was in fact engaged in business in this
Capital, but his connection with this Band was never
proven.
At the present time no one has been able to tell
what ex-General Mérigo's work or business is, or what
he is living on.
B

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.99)
1678
Enclosure No. 5, to despatch No.
of July 15,
1932, from the Embassy at Mexico City.
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL.
( C O P Y )
AMERICAN EMBASSY.
OFFICE OF THE MILITARY ATTACHE,
CITY OF MEXICO.
July 13, 1932.
MEMORANDUM FOR THE AMBASSADOR.
The Japanese Naval Attaché, Captain Kohei Ochi,
called on me on July llth, and also had me as his guest
at luncheon on July 13th.
During our conversation on both days he talked of
things in general, but on both occasions gradual ly led
up to the subject of the arrest of a Japanese named
Hamaguchi, by the federal military authorities in
Sonora.
Captain Ochi stated that Hamaguchi was a Japanese
fisherman, who at one time employed thirty or forty Jap-
anese, but recently due to lack of business, had sent
about ten of these fishermen back to Japan. He said he
knew of no reason why Hamaguchi had been arrested, or
why four of Hamaguchi's fishermen had also been arrested
with him. All of the rrests were made in Manzan illo,
and the Japanese were taken to Guaymas where they were
kept under guard.
Captain Ochi tells me that he has called at both
the Foreign Office, and at Gobernacion, here in Mexico
City, and that neither office admits knowing any reason
why Hamaguchi and his men were arrested, and disclaim
any knowledge of the fact that they were to be deported.
Accordin to Captain Ochi, Hamaguchi claims that
he was arrested because he was accused of makin& sound-
ings in the Gulf of California, along the coast of
Sonora.
He says he has recently received a letter from
amaguchi to ti efect that he will shortly arrive in
Mexico City and explain everythins to the Japanese
Legation.
Captain Ochi stated that he was told by his Japan-
ese contacts in Sonora, whom he admits are not always
reliable, that an American agent in Sonora had paid a
sum of money to the Jefatura Commander in the State of
Sonora to arrest and deport Hamaguchi, - and asked me
if I knew anything concerning the matter. I told him
that the information must be false, for the Unit ed
States Government had no agents working in Mexico; that
I was the only military or naval representative in the
whole Republic.
Captain Ochi evidently had samething on his mind
and was

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
and was trying to sound me out as to our attitude, or
what our knowledge was of Japanese activities in the
northern part of Mexico, - especially in Sonora and the
Gulf of California. He continually asked me what in-
terest we could possibly have in Japanese fishermen in
the area mentioned, and stated that if Japanese fisher-
men were making soundings in the Gulf of California it
was probably because they were trying to locate them-
selves on the map which he, Ochi, had rurnished to
Hamaguchi. These maps Captain Ochi claims to have ob-
tained from Washington.
Captain Ochi also stated that there was a lot of
propaganda going on in Mexico against both Japanese and
Americans, evidently for the purpose of creating ill
feelings between these two countries. He said we should
keep up friendly relations, see more of each other, and
talk things over plainly.
I naturally told him that we knew nothing of the
arrest of Japanese fishermen by the Mexican Government,
in Sonora, and had no interest in the activities of
Japanese fishermen in the Gulf of California.
After he mentioned the propaganda going on in
Mexicc against both Japanese and Americans, I asked him
if he had seen the pamphlet "La Guerra Yankee-Japonesa
y,la Actitud de Mexico" written by ex-General Juan
Merigo. He replied that he had not seen the pamphlet,
but that General Merigo had called upon him at the
Japanese Legation several times asking him if the
Japanese had any objections to his either giving le c-
tures or publishing a pamphlet, - both of which would
be propaganda in favor of the Japanese Government; that
he assured General Merigo that he had no objection to
such propaganda, but inquired what his interest was in
doing this. General Merigo made no definite statement
as to his reasons, but asked Captain Ochi for a loan
of 2, 000 pesos in order to publish the pamphlet. The
latter stated to me that he thought Merigo's sole reason
for desiring to write such a pamphlet was monetary gain;
that naturally he did not advance him any money. Says
he is going to buy one of the pamphlets and read it.
Further questioning of Captain Ochi led me to be-
lieve that he knew more about General Merigo than he
admitted. Time and again during the c ourse of our
conversation he told me of different incidents in
Merigo's life, showing me that he was thoroughly familiar
with his past history and activities.
I know of no reason why Captain Ochi should want
to discuss the above matter with me, unless the Mexican
authorities, at the instigation of General Calles and
Minister Teilez, have been taking some action in the
northwestern part of Mexico against Japanese fishermen
who have been reported to the Embassy and to this office
as making soundings in the Gulf of California, and map-
ping roads, etc. It will be remembered that at the
time this office made a report to the War Department,
March 1st, 1932, Amba sador Clark had a talk with
General Calles concerning the activities of the Japanese
in

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
in northwestern Mexico, and the latter then stated that
he knew nothing of such activities, but that if they
were being carried on he would put a stop to it. It
might be that the arrest of Hamaguchi is due to the
Mexican Government taking some action in this case.
Robert E. Cummings,
Captain,Infantry, DOL.
ActingMilitary Attache.
C/p

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.94)
EASTERN EURUPEAN AFFAIRS
2657-9.724
5850-6
DEPARTMENT OFE
MEX100
DIVISION OF
POLITICAL
MEXICAN AFFAIRS,
JUL 91 1932
RFVP
JUL 29 1032
Department of State
DEOOUTOP
foreign keletiona:
F/
HS
LATIN AMERICAN AFFAIRS
AUG 6 1932
1.
-2. there is for-
warded, attached hereto. & pamphlet entitled "La Guerrs
89
Yankee-Japonesa y la Aotitud de Méxioo". written by ex-General
4.2021
Juan Mérigo. A biographical sketoh of the suthor is slso at-
tached.
2.
translation of this pamphlet hse not
been made by this offics, but the gist of it is, briefly.
as follows:
That war between the nited States end
2
Japan is inevitable, end thst. due to the hatred
between these two countries, Mexieo would, in
3
case of such a war. become the ally of Japan.
9
That not only Mexieo, but Feru, Chile. Argen-
tine, donduras, Guatemsle. Salvedor, Costa Rios.
Nicarague, Colombie, and Venesuela,- countries
which heve resson to dislike the United ststes.-
would also slly themselves with Jepen.
That in oase of suen a war, Mexieo would
see in Japan a nation whioh could evenge the
wrongs that Mexieo hes suffered st the hands of
the Ünited States. and that if Japan would of-
fer to return to Mexico the territory taken from
her by the United States. Mexico would find it
diffioult not to elly herself with Japan.
That if a national plebesoite were teken.
the wexicen people would vote to go to, war, but
as allies of Japen. That with Wexioo's amall
army end navy. it would be impossible for her to
remein neutral.
That Japanese and Aperiosn paoifiste are
tryinp to avoid a war. but thet the  nite tates
is preparing its fectories end reserves for th
FILEI
wer whion it knows is approsching.
That the United States desires to inasi-
ate a war between hussie end Jepan, and then join
hands with huesis.
2
P-1
That in case of war, Japan will triumph.
but it will be fatal for Japan to weit three or
1-
four yeare. because by that time the Onited tates
will have construoted a large fleet. whieh would
make Japen's task mueh more diffieuit.
From: M.A.Mexico.
Report No.4020.
Date: July 8.1932
-1-

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.94)
-2 Report
3850-8
That efter the war. when the Jepanese
have defeated the United States. the latter will
be divided into small republies, like Centrel
Americs, and then the weaker nations of Centrel
and couth meriea will not be the viotims of
punitive expeditions by the United states.as in
the pest.
Thet 1f Mexico ehould heppen to slly her-
self with the United ftates. the latter would
obligate Lexico to put 1.o.0 men in the
field, which the United Ststes would have to arm
and equip.
However. when the Japanese have taken the
hilippine Islands end Hawaii. whion it will easi-
ly do after war has been declared. it will be im-
poseible for the Mexican Covernment to control
the Sexican people and keep them sllled to the
United states. because of the Mexiean people's
hatred for the United Stetes, and because of the
fect that Ameriosn soldiers and Mexioan soldiers
could never work together in hermony.
3.
Sometime ago a eñor Baez called at the Embazsy
and steted to s member of the mbassy steff that he hed been
sent by General Manuel . nriques (for ho's ho. see Re-
port 2277 (620c-d) September 7.1928) to speak w1th someone
in the mbasey regarding General nriquez's plans to coun-
teract the propaganda in Mexico of the Japanese Minister
and a mexican generel named Juan érigo (the author of the
pemphlet sent herewith). Feñor Baes steted that the Japan-
ese inister in mexieo hed psid to Juan  érigo the sum of
ten thoueand dollars for the printing and distributing of
the atteched pamphlet. and thet it wae Cenerel Enriques's
purpose to visit the Ünited States end obtain meteriel with
which to combet this propsgande, and he was desirous of en-
listing the coöperation of the mbessy to this end.
4。
From the eting /'s observation, this
pemphlet has had very little istribution in Mexico City.
and in order to obtsin copies it was necesssry to purchese
them from the printing office.
5.
The statement that the Jspenese Minister
peid ten thousand dollers to er-Ceners: Mérieo for publish-
ing end distributing this pamphlet. is doubted.
obert. Cum ings.
Cepte in.Infantry.
atine Militnry ttaoné.
Souree: As atated.
c/p
From:
..Mexico.
neport No. 4020.
Jote:July 8.1932.
-2-

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.96)
2
6-6
2657-9-724
Blograpaical data of ax-Brigadler General JUAN MÉRIGO.
whe at present does not ocoupy any position in the publle d-
7
ministration.
General Jman Mórlgo was born in Mexlco City and 1s 50
years of age. He recaived his early oducation in private and
Govermment sohoole of this city.
In the year 1907 he entered the Military College of Cha-
pultepeo, graduating In 1909 as a Sub-Lleutenant of Infantry, belng
assigned to the 2lst Infantry Battallon.
In the year 1910, for reasons unknown, he left the Army,
but in l9ll joined the revolutionary movement headed by Franciseo
I. Madero.
In 1912, he received his discharge, together with a
bomty payment of 200.00 pesos.
In l913 he jeined the revolutlonary movement heuded by
Venustlano Carranza, with the rank of Captain lst Class. of
Artillery, rising rapidly until, in August 19l4, he was promoted
to Colonel and mede Chief of the Arrillery of the Army of the East.
commanded by General Fab lo González.
In the year 1915, he rose to the rank 01 arlgadler General
Mórigo".
and was made Chief of the Department of rtillery of the Dot t-
ment of War and Marine.
In the year 192o he was relieved as Chief of the Dopart-
mont of rtillery, and dropped from the Army. (Reports are to the
effeet that he was dropped because he opposed the  lan de Agua
Prieta" and refused to join the Obreronista movement which over-
threw President Carranza.
General Mérigo has taken part in ninety-one combate, nd
during his service in the army he was creatly loved by his men.
He is extremely well posted on milit ry aff irs.
In the year 1923 he went to Spain, well recommended b
the Miniater of that country in Mexico, in order to take part In
the war against the Woore in Morroco, but it turned out that he
went Intending to serve as General, to which the Spanish Govern-
ment would not consent.
General Mérigo now devotes himself to his private affairs.
In the Territory of uintan. Roo he hel a Chicle concession; and
later became the prinolpal stockholder in a banana industry, sending
enormoms shipments of bananas to the United tates from the State of
Veracrus.
It was reported at one time that he was a member of the
"Grey Automobile" Band, ("Banda del Automovil Gris"), a gang of
thieves which operated in this Capital in 1915 end 1916. He was.
in fact, engaged in business in this Capital, but his connection
with this Band was never proven.
At the present time (June,1932), no one has been able
to tell what ex-General Merigo's work or business is, or what he
la living upon.

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.98)
Dilo
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
AAgust 3, 1932.
There are attached three papers from
M.I.D. and copy of a despatch from the
American Consulate at Guaymas, Mexico,
relating to alleged Japanese activities in
Mexico.
The first enclosure from M.I.D. has
already been circulated in the Division
and discusses the arrest by Mexican authorities
of a certain Japanese fisherman Hamaguchi,
who may have been making soundings in the
Gulf of California for military purposes.
The second enclosure comments about a
Cuadalupe y Calre Japanese dentist who "is
known to be making maps of certain landing
fields". The third enclosure reports the
seizure of a Japanese fishing smack "Kumano"
in the Gulf of California by order of the
Mexican Secretary of War.
The Consul's despatch reports the
seizure of the fishing smack "Kumano" with
the Japanese crew of five including the above
mentioned Hamaguchi. He reports that there
are many rumors to the effect that they were
engaged in charting the coasts of the Gulf
of California for the use of the Japanese
Navy in case of war with the United States.
The

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2 -
The Consul, however, has been unable to
discover any real evidence in support of
suoh rumors. The rumors the Consul states
are not entirely reasonable since detailed
navigation charts and books of the Gulf
of California are issued by the Govern-
ment of the United States and are avail-
able at small cost. The Japanese Govern-
ment could probably obtain permission to
take soundings of the Gulf and the
Japanese residents of that area have un-
doubtedly already submitted information
for the use of the Japanese Navy. The
seized fishing boat is apparently one of
six or seven that were brought from Japan
about ten months ago on a vessel of the
N.Y.K. line. The local immigration official
stated that all of these Japanese entered
the country legally. The Mexican General
in command of the troops at Guaymas con-
fidentially informed the Consul that these
Japanese were being investigated in connec-
tion with smuggling to and from the United
States by way of the Colorado River. He
added that he understood action had been
originally upon orders of the Central
Government at the instanoe of the United
States Government as in the eventuality
of war between Japan and the United States
Mexico would take the side of the United
States

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 3 -
States. He said the rumors about the
fishing boat were entirely without founda-
tion as far as he knew.

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
(1766-0-78)
ME
ONFIDENTIAL
(COPY)
AR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JUL1932
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Office of the Military Attache
City of Mexico.
Department of State
TATE
July 14, 1932
F/H
AI
4038.
XICANAFFA1RE
Subject: Japanese Activities in Mexico.
S
JUL 9
To:
A. C. of S., G2.
Department of State.
894.20212/
212
1. The Japanese Naval Attache, Captain Kohei Ochi,
called on me on July llth, and also had me as his guest at
luncheon on July 13th.
2. During our conversations on both days he talked
of things in general, but on both oocasions gradually led up
to the subject of the arrest of a Japanese named Hemaguchi,
by the federal military authorities in Sonora.
0:
3. Captain Ochi stated that Hamaguchi was a Japanese
01
fisherman, who at one time employed thirty or forty Japanese,
7
but recently due to lack of business, had sent about ten of
these fishenaen back to Japan. He said he knew of no reason
why Hamaguchi had been arrested, or why four of Hamaguchi's
fishermen had also been arrested with him. All the arrests
were made in Mansanillo, and the Japanese were taken to Guaymas
where they were kept under guard.
4. Captain Ochi tells me that he has called at both
the Foreign Office, and at Gobernacion, here in Mexico City,
and that neither office admits kmowing any reason why Hamaguchi
and his men were arrested, and disclaim any knowledge of the
fact that they were to be deported..
5. According to Captain Ochi, Hamaguchi claims that
he was arrested because he was accused of making soundings in
the Gulf of California, along the coast of Sonora. He says
he has recently received a letter from Hemaguchi to the effect
that he will shortly arrive in Mexico City and explain every-
PILED
thing to the Japanese Legation.
COPY FOR STATE DEPART ENT.
CONFIDENTLAT

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 2 -
6. Captain Ochi stated that he was told by his
Japanese contacts in Sonora, whom he admits are not always
reliable, that an merican agent in Sonora had paid a sum of
money to the Jefatura Commander in the State of Sonora to
arrest and deport Hamaguchi, - and asked me if I kmew anything
concerning the matter. I told him that the information must
be false, for the United States Government had no agents work-
ing in Mexice, except Consular and Diplomatic officers; that
I was the only military or naval representative in the whole
Republic.
7. Captain Ochi evidently had something on his mind
and was trying to sound me out as to our attitude, or what
our knowledge was of Japanese activities in the northern part
of Mexico, - especially in Sonora and the Gulf of California.
He contimmally asked me what interest we could possibly have
in Japanese fishermen in the area mentioned, and stated that
if Japanese fishermen were making soundings in the Gulf of
California it was probably vecause they were trying to locate
themselves on the map which he, Ochi, had furnished to Hama-
guchi. These maps Captain Ochi claims to have obtaimnd from
Washington.
8. Captain Ochi also stated that there was a lot of
propaganda going on in Maxico against both Japanese and Ameri-
cans, evidently for the purpose of creating ill feelings
between these two countries. He said we should keep up
friendly relations, see more of each other, and talk things
over plainly.
9. I naturally told him that we kmew nothing of the
arrest of Japenese fishermen by the Mexicen Govermment, in
Sonora, and had no interest in the activities of Japanese
fishermen in the Gulf of California.
10. fter he mentioned the propaganda going on. in
Mexico against both Japanese and Americans, I asked him if he
had seen the pamphlet "La Guerra Yankee-Japonesa y la Actitud
de Mexico" written by ex-General Juan Merigo. He replied that
he had not seen the pamphlet, but that General Merigo had c:lled
upon him at the Japanese Legation several times asking him if
the Japanese had any objections to his either giving lectures
or publishing a pamphlet, - both of which would be propaganda
in favor of the Japanese Government; that he assured General
Merigo that he had no objection to such propaganda, but in-
quired what his interest was in doing this. General Merigo
made no definite statement as to his reasons, but asked Captain
Ochi for a loan of 2,000 pesos in order to publish the pam-
phlet. The latter stated to me that he thought Merigo's sole
reason for desiring to write such a pamphlet was monetary gain;
that naturally he did not advance him any money. Says he is
going to buy one of the pamphlets and read it.
CONETDENT

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 3 -
11. Hurther questioning of Captain Ochi led me to
believe that he kmew more about General Merigo than he admitted.
Time and again during the course of our cenversation he told
me of different inoidents in Merigo's life, showing me that
he was thoroughly familiar with his past history and activi-
ties.
13. I mow of no reason why Captain Ochi should
want to disouss the above matter with me, unless the Merican
anthorities, at the instigation of General Calles and Minister
Telles, have been taking some action in the northwestern part
of Mexice against Japanese fishermen who have been reported to
the Embassy and to this office as making soundings in the Gulf
of California, and mapping roads, eto. It will be remembered
that at the time this office made a report to the War Depart-
ment, March 1, 1933, mbassador Clark had a talk with General
Calles concerning the activities of the Japanese in north-
western Mexico, and the latter then stated that he knew noth-
ing of such activities, but that if they yere being carried
on he would put a step to it.- It might be that the arrest of
Hamaguchi is dae to the Mexican Government taking some action
in this case.
(signed) ROBERT E. CUMMINGS
Robert E. Cummings
Captain,Infantry, DOL
Acting Military Attache
Copy furnished American Embassy.
c/p
CONFLDEND

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.98)
(COPY)
CONFIDENTIAL
02/1766-0-76
It was reported on June 13, 1932, that on authority of the Mexican
War Department a party of soldiers from Guaymas took into custody a
Japanese fishing smack at Puerto Lobos. The boat, reported as the
Kayamat was one of seven which arrived last year. Details were surpressed
and no reason given for the arrest.
*Kumano
(Excerpt from letter to G-2, 8th Corps Area, from Commanding Officer,
25th Infantry, Fort Huachuca, Arizona, June 13, 1932.)
A reliable informant who travels over Chihuahua and Sonor recently
returned from a trip in these states and furnished the following informa-
tion which he obtained from a reliable American living at and employed
by the West Mexican Mines Lt'd at Guadalupe y Calvo, Chihuahua.
A Japanese dentist who lives at Guadalupe y Calvo is believed to
be gathering data for the Japanese government. This Jap is well educated
along engineering lines as well as being a dentist. He is known to be
making maps of certain landing fields between Guadalupe y Calvo and
Mazatlan, and it is believed that he is making maps in genersl of the
territory in that vicinity. He sometimes leaves Guadalupe y Calvo and
visits the surrounding villages for periods of a month or more at a time.
There is never enough dentistry work in this territory to keep this man
employed except for a fraction of the time. During the height of the
Sino-Japanese trouble in the early part of 1932 this Jap was very nation-
alistic and is reported to have lined up several (three or four) hundred
Mexican men for employment as laborers in Japan and Manchuria should he
call for them. He readily secured many applicants for the trip on offer-
ing to pay them $3 gold per day.
(Excerpt from letter to G-2, 8th Corps Area, from First Cavalry Division,
ort B1iss, Texas, June 11, 1932; 2/2657-G-657/82.)
CONEUEN

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.95)
AME
CONFIDENTIAL
RECEIVID
(COPY)
(1766-0-76)
2960
50
HEADQUARTERS IGHTH CORPS AREA
Office of the Corps Area Commander
2,091 (Japan)
Fort Sam Houston, Texas
June 14, 1932.
Al
F/HS
CONFIDENTIAL
Division of
SUBJECT: Japanese Activities in Mexico.
FAR EASTER ARS
TO:
Asst. Chief of Staff, 2, War Departmentot  State
Washington, D. C.
894.20212/33
1. The following Associated Press Dispatch is quoted:
"MEXICAN AUTHORITIES SEIZE JAPANESE SMACK"
MEXICAN AFFALAS.
"Guaymas, Mexico, June 13. - The Japanese fishing
JUL 20 1932
19
mack, Kumano, operating in the Gulf of California, was
this port today from Puerto de Lobos. Mexican officials
3
refused to divulge any information.
8
"The Kumano is one of seven Japanese fishing vessels
which arrived here one year ago from Japen."
2. It is noted that the fishing boat Kumano and the name
Captain Kumano are mentioned in reports attached to letter G-2/
1766-0-76, dated Apri1 21, 1932, from G2, W. D. to Military
Attache, Mexico City, copies of which were furnished this office.
3. This is forwarded as of possible interest to the War
Department.
L. B. CLAPHAM,
Major, General Staff,
Diviston on
A. C. of S., G-2.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIHS
JUL 30 1932
FILED
Depariment of State
CONFID

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.96)
RECU
1
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Guaymas, Mexi∞, July 20, 1932.
Division of
JUI 28 32
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
AAUG 1-1932
ud to ONI.( ipt. (lis)
32
ACT
SUBJECT: Alleged Activities of Japanese Craft.
S
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
894.20212/3
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
I have the honor to report that a small Japanese
C
fishing boat, probably under 25 feet in length, the
6
M/S KuMANO NO. 5, which was registered at Guaymas under
the Mexican flag not long ago, with a Japanese crew of
five, viz., Kajiro Hamaguchi, Bantaro Amano, Kiyoji
Hamaguchi, Rinosuke Kavanchi, and Fudekichi Tanaka, has
been detained by the local Federal authorities, together
with its crew, after having been brought from waters df
the Gulf of California near the mouth of the Colorado
River, under orders of the Central Government.
The bringing of this boat with its crew under the
custody of two officers of the Mexican Transport
PROGRESO, on June 7, 1932, and its detention to date,
has been clothed in considerable mystery, from the view-
Confidential
point of local residents and press. In fact, rumors
have been spread at random that this vessel and its orew
have been secretly engaged in oharting the coasts of the
Gulf of California for the specific and exclusive use of
the
File
①

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
the Japanese Navy in case of war with the United States.
The consulate, however, has been unable to dis-
cover any real evidence or practical theory which would
justify any such assumption. This belief is expressed,
of course, apart from the oft asserted opinion heard
from many quarters to the effect that each Japanese
subject in foreign countries first serves his country
as a virtual spy and afterwards attends to his personal
interests. Likewise, strictly technical questions whioh
frequently are heard, such as the possible use of the
Gulf of California, with its numerous bays, coves,
islands, access to the United States by land, sea, and
river, the relative narrowness of the entrance to the
Gulf and the consequent possibility of proteoting it
by mines, et cetera, by the Japanese Navy, specially
by its submarines, as a base, are, of course, not with-
in the competenoy of the writer to discuss herein.
Nevertheless, in the belief of the writer, the
theory put forth locally which is stated above, in all
probability is not entirely reasonable since (1) de-
tailed navigation charts and books of the Gulf of
California, issued by the Government of the United
States, are available at small cost, (2) the Japanese
Government could, doubtlessly, obtain special permission
from the Mexioan Government, under some pretext allowed
by international usage, to take soundings and make
charts of the Gulf of California, and (3) the relatively
large number of Japanese now residing in Lower Calif-
ornia , specially along the seacoast, most of whom
are engaged in fishing or allied industries, undoubtedly
have

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.99)
3-
have already submitted data for the use of the Japanese
Navy.
Local residents state that the above-named Japanese
fishermen are not fishermen inasmuch as they do not aot
as fishermen, as they are known here; that their general
appearance as regards type is not of fishermen but of
educated Japanese; that their hands do not indicate them
to be manual workers; that they have special nautioal
instruments; that they have been seen take soundings of
the bays and coves of the Gulf; et cetera. Nothing that
this office has been able to asoertain has borne out
these statements, However.
It is the understanding of this office that the
above-named fishing boat is one of six or seven that
were brought from Japan to Manzanillo, Colima, Mexico,
about ten months ago on a vessel of the Nippon Yusen
Kaisha Line and that all of these fishing boats came
coasting to Guaymas.
It seems however, that the KUMANO
NO. 5 is the only one now in these waters.
The ex-
pressed object of these boats coming to Mexican waters
was to fish and upon the ocourrence of the incidents in
the Far East, there appeared to be no limit to
the rumors
heard here connecting them to those incidents and the
United States. Moreover, at least one person claiming
to be an American is known to have come to Guaymas and
visited the consulate at that time, hinting, according
to Consul Voetter with whom he talked, that he came here
to investigate the matter.
The undersigned officer, however, was informed by
the local immigration official that every one of the
Japanese named above were legally immigrated into the
country

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
oountry at Manzanillo and that, although the
Seoretarfa de Gobernación had ordered the detention of
these Japanese and their boat when they were first
brought to Guaymas, he had subsequently been ordered
to have nothing more to do with the matter.
General Mariano Garay, in command of the troops
stationed at Guaymas and its vicinity, confidentially
informed the writer that these Japanese were being
detained at Guaymas, with liberty to roam in the city,
while they were being investigated in connection with
smuggling to and from the United States via the
Colorado River. He added that they stated that they
were engaged in fishing in the Gulf, but that they
could show no fishing permits mor could they explain
their whereabouts or activities during the two months
prior to their virtual arrest. Incidentally, he added
that it was his understanding that action had originally
been taken by the looal Federal authorities in the matter
upon orders from the Central Government which, in turn,
had been at the instance of the United States Government,
since, in the eventuality of war between the two powers,
this government would take the side of the United States.
General Garay branded the rumors referred to'above as being
entirely without foundation, so far as he was aware.
Respectfully yours,
A. F. Yepis,
American Vice Consul.
Original and four copies to Department;
Copy to Embassy, Mexico;
Copy to Consulate General, Mexico.
JM
Confidential File/830
AFY-rgs-8.
distraynd
1 copry

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
August 26, 1932.
SA:
The attached despa tch of August 18,
1932, from San Luis Potosi, Mexico, reports
an incident in the local Rotary Club caused
by the distribution, apparently at a meet-
ing of the Club, of a pamphlet entitled
"The Yankee-Japanese War and the Attitude
of Mexico." A copy of this pamphlet was
routed through FE some days ago as an enclo-
sure to an explanatory despatch from another
of our offices in Mexico.
The incident described was that the
Consul, at a dinner, called to the atten-
tion of the Pres ident of the Ro tary Club
that the dis tribution of these pamphlets by
a Japanese member was contrary to the con-
stitution of the Rotary International be-
cause the pamphlet is political propaganda.
This despatch also forwards a news-
paper article purported to be an interview
with a high Japanese officer on the subject
of the imminence of the invasion of the
United States by Oriental powers, namely,
Japan and Soviet Russia.
221
LES: KC

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.96)
AMERICAN CONSULATE.
San Luis Potosí, Méxi co, August 18, 1932.
SuBJEcT: Anti-American Propaganda in San Luis Potosí
Being Spread by Japanese Residents.
4.20212
No1
Division ( f
H
FAR EASTERN AFF IRS
S
AUG 24 1932
711.94
THE HONORABLE
8tute
5.8
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
894.20212/340
WASHINGTON.
Buat
SIR:
I have the honor to report an incident which occurred
last night, August 17th, at the weekly Rotary Club dinner.
The reporting officer, who is a member of the local Rotary
Club and who has been on the most friendly terms with all
of the members of it, arrived at the meeting last evening
to find that a recently elected member, Antonio Y. Kurachi,
had distributed a number of pamphlets among tho se present
entitled "The Yankee-Japanese War and the Attitude of
Mexico" (La Guerra Yankee-Japonesa y la Actitud de México).
The pamphlet is nothing more or less than a harsh attack
upon the United States. One copy is being sent herewith to
the Department, the Eabassy und the Consulate General in
México City.
At the proper moment the writer called the attention
of the President, and incidentally the Club as a whole, to
the fact that the Constitution of the Rotary International
prohibits clubs beo ming involved in political questions,
which could well be interpreted to preclude the use of the
Club for the spreading of political propaganda. The re-
marks were made in Spanish and a transcript of them, as
closely

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.98)
-2~
closely as can be rememberel, is attached to this despetch.
A translation of those remerks follows:
"Mr. President:
Before the discussion of official matters is
closed I desire to invite your attention to that
clause of the Constitution of the Rotary Club
which prohibits the participation of the Club in
political affairs, either local or internetional,
and from which we may infer that the Club should
not be used as a medium of dissemination of
political propaganda, especi lly when it severely
attacks the government of any of the members.
I have here a copy of a pamphlet which I see
has been distri buted among those present tonight
by one of our most recent members. I will not
discuss its contents except to say that it is a
harsh and unjustifiable attack on the country I
represent, cnd this Club is no place ror such
propaganda to be spread. Therefore, I must of-
ficially re juest thet a letter be sent to the
member who distributed these pamphlets, oal line
his attention to the provision of the Constitution
prohibiting such ection, and instructing him to
abstain from it in the future".
Naturally, what was said caused considerubl conment among
the members of the club, tho, with the exception of the
Japanese, were in accord that the proceaure udopted by r.
Kurachi was improper. Either some member of the club was
indiscreet in discussing the incident, or sone one deliber-
etely gave the item to tne press, becn se the "Vanuardia"
came out this mornin with un article er titled "Incident at
the Rotarian Supper of Last Nicht".  copy mnd a tro sletion
of this short urticle is ulso tra siritted with this despatch.
The article in itself is unimnortant, except to inaicate
that the press would like to make much of the ineident if
possible.
It is probably a coincidence that in the seme issue of
the "Vanguardia" of nugust 18, 193', in which the above
incident was reported there appeared on the first page in
bold

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.94)
-3-
bold headlines an announcement that "The Invasion f United
States Territory By Oriental Powers is Imminent". Then
followed what was reported to be an interview with a high
Japanese army officer, who had just come to éxico city
from Los  ngeles, Californiu, wience he had accomoanied
the Japanese olyupic team. clippines of this article and
a tru slation thereof ure lso attached to this despatch.
Whil on this subject it may also be well to refer
to page 11 of politicul despatch vo. 7o from this
12.0
27
Consulate dated Jan ary 1, le3s, mentioning the fact
that the informal Japunese representative here, r.
Tokichi Umaba, has been uietly spreading  ro-Japanese
propaganda in this city for some time. It was heard last
night that since the date just mentioned other pamphlets and
books have been distributed. So far n known none of them
have been of the violently unti-erican character of the
one enclosed herewith.
Respectfuily your,
thaut
Geo. P. 
erican consul
Enc losures:
I.' Panp alet  titled "Lu ruerra Yankee-ou onesa 
la actitua de éxico';
2/ Pranscript of remarks, in -parish;
3/ copy and translation f iress article;
4/ clippings and translution of press article.
In quintuplicate to the Departrent;
Copy to Lmbassy;
Copy to consulate eneral.
800。
GPS/ET.

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.98)
Remarks of Consul Geo. P. Shaw at the Rotary Club Dinner
at San Luis Potos1, México, on August 17, 1932.
"Sr。Presidente:
Antes de que sea cerrada la discusión de asuntos ofi-
ciales, deseo invitar la atención de Ud. a la cláusula de
la Constitución del Club Rotario, gue prohibe la partici-
pación del Club en asuntos politicos, ya sean locales o
internacionales, y de la cual debemos inferir que el Club
no deberfa ser usado como medio de diseminación de propagan-
da politica, especialmente cuando ella ataca severamente al
gobierno de alsuno de los miembros.
Tengo equf un ejemplar de un folleto que veo ha sido
distribuído entre los presentes esta noche por uno de nues-
tros miembros más nuevo s. No discutiré el contenido de ai-
cho folleto, pero sí diré que es él un ataque duro e injus-
tificado al pafs que represento, y ue este club no es lu-
gar para que se distribuya tal propaganda. Por esta razón,
oficialmente tengo que suplicar que se envié una comunicuciér
al miembro iie renartió estos folletos, llamando su atención
a la prov sión de la Constitución lue prohibe tales acics,
e instruyériole de abstenerse de ello en lo tuturo

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.98)
Translation. ("Varguardia, August 18, 1932).
INCIDENT AT TE ROTTAN SUT PLR OF LAST NIGHT,
Occassioned by the distribution of a pumphlet that contains
hard expressions regarding the nei hboring country of North
America.
A few moments berore the kotary supper which perioaically
occurs on Wednesdays in the "Salón kotario" of the Hotel
Progreso, there occurred an incident of a strongly dis-
agreeable tone, that surely and on account of its nature
being related directly to the sentiment of patriotism innate
in all men, will occasion the protagonists to be somewhat
distant.
A representative of this pper found himself near the
Hotel Progrese when the incident occurred and in this marner
promptly obtained the data necessary to formulate the notice
which is concisely as follows:
Mr. Antonio Kurachi, well-known member of the Japanese
colony and member also of the Rotary club, distriouted
among the persons that were in the salon where & few
minutes afterwards the supner took place, copies of a
pamphlet that eulogize the international policy of Japan
and in turn made harsh critici sm of North Anerica (United
States). The editor of this condensed work being ex-General
Mérigo, very well known in México. The Aaerican Consul,
Mr. Shaw, was in the rotary salon and a copy of the pam hlet
promptly fell into his hands, or which in abundance he found
impressed the commercial s tamp of r. Kurachi.
Immediately the American Consul, with evidences of firm
opposition, took steps to the end that an ample clarifica-
tion of the case be made, as there exist two powerful
motives which obliged him to do it, first. the respect
for his country within an interne tional institution such
as is the Rotary Club, and second, the respect due his
person.
We are keeping this matter pending in order to inform
(publi) to a greater extent in case it becomes necessary.

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.97)
(Copy) (Vanguerdia", August 18, 1932.)
INCILENTE N LA CENA OTALTA DE ANOCHE
Ocasionado por la distribución de un folleto que tiene duras
expresiones para el vecino pafs de Norteamérica.
Momentos antes de dar principio la cena rotaria que
periódicamente se celebra los miércoles, en el "Salón Ro-
tario" del Hotel Progreso, ocurrió un incidente de fuerte
tono desagradeble vue segurunente y por su fndole relacion-
ada directamente con el sentiniento de patriotismo innato
en todos los ho bres, provocará distancianiento entre los
protagonistas.
Un representante de este diurio se hallaba cerca del
Hotel Progreso cuando ocurrió el incidente y en esa forma
pronto consegu imos los datos necesarios para formular la
noticia ue puede concretarse a lo siguiente:
El se or ntonio Kurachi, conocido miemoro de la colo-
nia japonesa y miembro tembién del "Rotary Club" distriouyó
entre las personas ue se encontraban en el salón donde po-
cos minutos después se verificaba la cena, ejemplares de
un folleto lve elogia la politica internacional del Japór
y en cambio hace duras criticas de orteamérica, siendo edi-
tor de esa obra co uensuda el cx-general érigo, muy coneci-
do en éxico.
El cónsul americano, nor shaw, se encontraba en el sa-
lón rotario y muy pronto llecó a sus menos un ejemplar del
folleto, en el  ue, a mayor abundaniento, se encontraba im-
preso el sello comercial del senor urachi.
Inmediatamente, el cóisul  mericano, dando muestras de
gran contrariedad inició sus gestiones para ue se haga una
amplia acluración ael caso, r sto ue existen dos motivos
poderosos vue lo pbligan a eilo, primero el respeto a su
patria dentro de une institución inte acional, comc es l
Clup Rotario y secundo el respeto a su personalidad.
Estaremos pendientes de este usu to para inf rmar con
más amplitud en caso necesario.

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.99)
nslation. ("Vanguardia" of San Luis Potosi, August
18, 1932.)
THE INVASION OF NORTH AMER ICAN (UNITED STATES) TERRITORY
BY ORIENTAL FORCES IS IMMINENT.
THE RUSSIAN SOVIET RESENTFUL OF NON-RECOGNITION ON THE
PART OF THE UNITED STATES WILL JOIN WITH JAPAN TO INITIATE
AN EARLY MILITARY OFFENSIVE.
VARIOUS PROMINENT PERSONS OF THE YANKEE ADMINISTRATION
WILL SHORTLY RESIGN.
THEY CONSIDER IT DANGEROUS TO PLEDGE THEMSELVES TO A
CONFLICT IN WHICH THEY WOULD COME OUT DEFEATED, INASMUCH
AS HOOVER'S GOVERNMENT IS UNANIMOUSLY REPUDIATED.
(Exclusi vely for the "Vanguardia".)
México, August 17,.--A prominent member of the Japanese
Army who just arrived in this metropolis proceeding from
Los Angeles, California, where he went accompanying the
Olympic team of his country, has manifested his belief to
the effect that the present political régime of North
Amerioa will shortly disappear, by virtue of the faot that
many weeks will not pass until two of the most powerful
oriental forces will dedicate themselves to invading the
territory of the neighboring country. The high military
chief in question explained, referring to Japan and to
Russia as those whioh made it sure that briefly they would
have to unite in an explicable eagerness to dominate the
colossus of the north. Japan, because its people have
not yet thrown off the hatred of the Yankee which on no
few occasions has received grave injuries; and Russia,
by virtue of the resentment which it holds towards the
Government of the American Union for denying it the recogni-
tion of its present governmental régime.
The person interviewed by us continued saying that
during his short stay in the neighboring country he became
aware that the administ ration of President Hoover was going
through at the present time a dangerous crisis by virtue
of the faot that many of his principal collaborators are
soon to present the resigna tions of their portfolios,
foreseeing the imminence of a conflagration and their
intention of not seeing themselves involved in it.
Further, the aforesaid military chief was able to
observe that among the major part of the working popula-
tion of the United States there exists a very marked dis-
content with the acts of the Government due to the
procedure whioh it has just used with the veterans of the
war, and in accordance with the foregoing it is sure that
in case of an armed international confliot the administra-
tion of the neighboring country would not count but with a
minimum part of its present army, as each soldier would
resist remaining afterwards in the greatest abandonment,
as has happened to the ex-combatants of the Great Wat.
Suoh

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
Such situation of the American Union is considered by
Russia and Japan as the easiest of being taken advantage
of for their ideas of expansion and, to judge from the
notices regarding the matter, such a thing will happen in
a very short t ime.
The Corresponaant."

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.99)
VANGUARDIA
LUIS
POTOSI,
JUEVES 18 DE AGOSTO
DE 1932
La Invasión de Territorio
Norleaméricano por
Potencias Orientales
es Inminente

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.99)
La Rusia Soviet, resentida por el No Re
conocimiento, de parte de los Esta
dos Unidos, se unirá al Japón para
iniciar una próxima ofensiva bélica
VARIOSPROMINENTES PERSONA-
JES DE LA ADMINISTRACION
YANQUIRENUNCIARAN EN BREVE
Consideran peligroso empeñarse en
una contienda en la cual saldrán de-
rrotados, toda vez que Gobierno de
Hooveres unánimemente repudi do
(V.)
Sólo para VANGUARDIA
momentos por una crisis pel grosísi.
MEXICO, agosto 17.—Un promi. ma, en virtud de que muchos de sus
nente miembro del ejército japonés principales colaboradores están pró.
que acaba de llegar a esta metrópoli ximos a presentar las renuncias de
procedente de Los Angeles, Califor- sus carteras. previendo la inminen.
nia, a donde fué acompañando al cia de una conflagración. y en su
equipo olímpico de su país, ha ma- propósito de no verse envueltos en
nifestado su creencia acerca de que ella.
el actual régimen politico de Norte
Por otra parte. el aludido jefe mi.
américa está próximo a desaparecer. litar p u d o observar que entre la
en virtud de que no pasarán muchas mayor parte de la población obrera
semanas sin que dos de las más po.
de los Estados Unidos existe un
derosas potencias orientales, se de.
marcadisimo descontento hacia los
dican a invadir el territorio del ve.
actos del Gobierno. debido al pro.
cinopais.
ceder que este acaba de usar con los
El alto jefe militar en cuestión
veteranos de la guerra, de acuerdo
explicó "eferirse a Japón y a Rusia.
con lo anterior. es seguro que en
los que abriga la seguridad de que
caso de una contienda internacio_
en brev: habrán de unirse en un
nal armada, la administración del
explicable afin de dominar al coloso
vecino paío no c ntará sino con una
del norte. Jupón. porque su pueblo
mínima parte de su actual ejército,
aún no desecha el odio al yanqui del
ya que cada soldado se resistirá a
que en no pocas ocasiones ha reci.
quedar a la postre en el mayor des.
bido graves ultrajes, y Rusia, en amparo, como ha sucedido a los ex.
virtud del resentimiento que abriga combatientes de la gran guerra.
hacia el Gobierno de la Unión Ame-|. Tal situación de la Unión Ameri.
ricana, por negarse esta a reconocer cana se considera por Rusia y Ja_
su actual régimen gubernamental. pón como la más factible de ser
Nuestro entrevistado continuó di. aprovechada para sus propósitos de
ciendo que durante eu breve estan. expansionismo, y, a juzgar por las
cia en el vecino pais, pudo darse noticias al respecto. tal cosa sobre..
cuenta de que la administración del vendrá en muy, poco tiempo.
Presidente Hoover atraviesa en estos
EL CORRESPONSAL

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.96)
AT
351-Conridential.
AMERICAN CONSULATE.
San Luis Potosf, México, February 5, 193
FAR EASTER
FEB 13 1933
Depertment of Staia
SuBJEcT: Japanese Propaganda in the San Luis Poto
Consular District, México.
F/HS
DIVISION OF
THE HONORABLE
MXICAN AFFAIRS
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
WASHINGTON.
Department of State.
894.
SIR:
I have the honor to refer to political despatches
712
.20212/341
from this Consulate Nos? 27c am 1317 of January 31.
1932, und u ust 13, 12, 1e ective1y, th latter
treating excl usively of ,  se un ti-  erice.
ganda in San Luis Potosí,  id to report certain in
cidents during the past year and one just a few days
ago which may be of interest to the Department and
which may merit some aotion.
As reported previously, it is kmown that there
has been a quiet but steady dissemination of Japan-
ose propaganda in this State during the past year.
On February 6, 1932, there was received in this
office an undated anonymous letter belittling the
United States and stating that an aocounting between
Japan and the United States was at hand.
On Ootaber 6, 1932, anot her s imilar letter was
receiwed stating Japan had repeatedly insulted the
uni ted states and that nothing had been done, nor
Wala amything be done about it.
FEB 231933
Both

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
Both of the above letters were mailed in the
City of Sen Luis Potosf; they were written on simi-
lar paper; mailed in similar envelopes; written in
English, evidently by a person who knows that lan-
guage fair ly well; one letter was written with the
paper folded reverse to the manner usually adopted
by Americans; and, while both letters were written
in lead penc il in an evident ly di sruised handwrit-
ing, it appears to the ufficer t at both were writ-
ten by the sume person.
t te ti e the letters
were rece 1 ved le
ters o nore.
on Januury 30, 1933,
oter simedtuho
Nimo was received, stating that the writer was
friendly to the United States and thet he desired
to advise the Consulate that a Japanese Military
Intelligence Officer had recently been in San Luis
Potosf and that he had verheard him say that Japan
intended attacking the Philippine Islands between
June and September, 1933. This letter was written
in ink and the words were printed. The envelope in
which the letter oame was identical in size and
quality with the first two le tters above mentioned.
Coples of the three letters referred to are
attaahed hereto.
The firt

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.94)
- 3 -
The first of the three letters was received
without any coincident circumstanoes.
Just prior to receiving the second letter Mr.
Frank Dickinson, an American ci tizen and a son of
a fommer Ameri can Cons ul in  is city, came to the
Consulate to inquire about either a vi se or a tran-
sit certificate for Mr. Antonio Y. Kurachi and his
wife and twe children. He ms aware f he inci-
dent reported in despatel o. 317 of August 18.
1932, and apparen t1y was in come doutt us to whether
the vise or t ransit eertif teo 
.e.
The ineidet just mer med  oussed
certain extent, and he ters di lere at
its having been given to the press was voi ced.
Mr. Dickinson was told to inform Mr. Kurachi that
he should make his application in person. Mr.
Diokinson is known to be very close to and very
friendly with Mr. Kurachi. A day or two later the
second anonymous letter was recei ved.
A few days ago Mr. Kurachi called and inquired
about going to Japan via the United States. He
stated that he had never been in the United States;
that he would like to go through that territory
merely for the ple asure of seeing a part of it;
that he phanned on entering at Bagle Pass, Texas,
beeause he hed a relati ve living in Piedres Negras,
.Goahuila, maxieo, whom he could wit en zoute;
tha

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.98)
that he intended leaving San Luis Potosí about
February 13, 1933, and that after entering he would
prooced directly to San Francisco, California,
whs re he would embark on a Japanese steamer for
Japan on or about Maroh 1, 1933; that 1t was prob-
able he would be provided wi th a through tioket
from San Luis Potosf to San Franoisco. He needed
a new passport as his old one had expired, and he
promised to come provided with a new one, includ ing
his wife and two children. He was advised that the
Consulate would be glad to entertain his application
for a transit certificate, which was apiarently what
he desired. Two or three days later the third anon-
ymous letter was received. Discreet inquiry has
been conducted and it appears that no Japanese by
the neme of Kataho Nimo is known in this city, at
least no one, Japanese or other nationality, by
that name appears in the register of foreigners in
this capi tal.
It was le arned fram a confidential source that
a girl employee of Mr. Kurachi once stated to the
Consulate's informant that she had had some exper-
ience with anonymous letters while working there.
The exact nature of the letters could not be ascer-
tained wi thout appearing unduly curious, but it is
not unlikely that some more information on the sub-
jeot may come to light at a later date. The ques-
tion of who in San Luis Potosf writes such good
English

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.95)
-5-
Knglish and who is also interested in Japanese-
Ameri can affairs is also raceiving the attention
of the Consulate.
It is proposed to grent Mr. Kurachi his transit
certificate if his pepers appear to be in order.
A copy of this despat ch is being sent to the
American Consul et Piedras Negras, and he will
later be advi sed or the name of Mr. Kurachi's friend
in that city, if it is ascertained.
Conies
the drs atet are also beinc sent to
he
bach.
Th1le
tron sm tted herewi th,
much importe ce
they and the pos sibly related incidents reported
have become so n merous as to have acquired some
slight degree of importance, and the matter is here-
by submitted to the Department for its information
and any action that is deemed appropriate.
Respectfully yours,
Geo. P. Shaw
American Consul
knolosures:
3 undated monymous letters (copies)
To the: Departmont in quintuplicate;
dopy to the Embassy;
Gopy to the Consul ate General;
Mopy to the Comsulate at Piedras Negras.

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.92)
(copy)
To the American Consu 1.
Why doesnt your Government fight Japon? "hy does it
fight poor little Nicararue?
Because you mericons ure ruce or cowards fron
Washineton the lufrer to e mt me of you.
But the hand writiis i: on te wall, your tine hus
arrdved.
Loni liveicu

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.84)
(Copy)
Mr. conu 1.
Jupon has violated the 9 Power Treaty  pon has violeted
your "famous"  llo Pue.
renothouin
Shanhai.
Har i
nation
S
Japon for your Tlur us
What can you expect of a nation whuse pres ident muruers its
soldiers like ola : ol loover id at ashin ton?
Lon Iive Jpon
LonLve ico.

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.96)
COPY
San Luis Potosi,
January 29th/33
Mr. George F. Shaw,
American Consui.
My Dear Sir:
I am working for a Japanese firm in this city
and as I lived in Japan for fifteen years I under-
stand the Japanese language thoroughiy; a fact which
my Japanese employer is not nequainted with to this
day.
Lately a upanese secret ervice man(Military
Intellicence) was in t is towm ond while here.
stopped at  emp lover's 
s strenrer, 
employer and r d he
 room am as the
would not hesltate  e rry
heir conversatins
before me (thinkin me tgnorant of their language)
I was very weli aequrn ved wil al their doings.
It was very late one night, we three were in
the room, the Secret Service man and my employer
were discussing the Far Eastern situation (Manchuria
especially) over a large table covered with maps and
papers dealing with military and naval matters,
Suddenly this stranger, addressing my employer in a
solemn and dramatic way, said to my employer I am
going to tell you something of such high importance
and deep responsibility to the interests of our
country (meaning Japan)that I do not need to tell
you that this information is not and under any
oiroumstanoes to be repeated. Our Government the
stranger continued has everything prepared for a
powerful and sudden attack on the Philippine Islands
between the months of June and September this year
1933, oapturing at the same time Guam, Wake and
Midway Islands. The United States will of course
deolare war on us immediately, but by the time they
get ready to attack us, we will have consolidated
our positions in these strategio group of Islands.
Then we will be ready to attack the Hawalian Islands
fn full foree, with a simultaneous rebellion of the
Japadase population of this Islands, whioh to the
pumber or forty thousand have been searstely armed
and arm all ready to act at a moment's notioe.
me.Amerloan Navy continued the stranger is
Smarrieiant ana its personnel laoks fighting qualities
nt petriotismi I-do not take she morican Army in
samrasión ms 1t is not prepared fom immediate
à and ite present strength is unimportent.

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.97)
Two or three days after this highly important
unknown; my employer used to address him always by
the title of Colonel
Whether the faots as stated in this oonversa-
tion materialize or not, time will only tell, but.
I am friendly to you and I thought best to let you
know
(Signed-printed) Kataho Nimo

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20212/342
SEE..793.94 Comm1ssion/821
FOR .Tel. # 32..6.pm.
FROM ....Mexico
(Lane
) DATED February.20,1933.
TO
NAME
-1127
REGARDING:
Japanese request for permission to exhibit
Japanese propaganda films on Manchuria,
in Mexico.
hs

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.96)
ON
MID
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 29, 1933.
0：
Mexico's despatoh No. 2505 of April
18, 1933, encloses a translation of a
jumbled artiole in EL NACIONAL containing
the information that the coal mines at
Sabinas, Coahuila, deny receiving an order
for 200,000 tons of coal for the Japanese
Empire and that the mines further state that
suoh an order would not be complied with
if the Amerioan Government advised against
it (the coal company being an American con-
cern).
CC:CLS

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.95)
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. AND M. I.D.
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Mexico, April 18, 1933.
No. 2505
74.20212
Subject:
Report that Japanese Government ould
Purchase Coal from the Coal Mines of
Sabinas, Coahuila.
97.2
DIVISION E
F/H
MEXICANAFFATRE,
S
Department of Stato
894.20212/343
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
m
APR 28 1933
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Hashington.
Sir:
As being of interest to the Departrent, I have
the honor to enclose a translation of & news item
from the newspaper  AcI0 L of April 10, 1933,
with reference to a report recently published in the
press to the effect that the Japanese Govern ent had
contracte. to purchase a large quantity of coal from
the coal mines situated in the State of Coahuila, and
referrin to comments made in the American press re-
gardin: this matter.
Respectfully yours,
Htiod ace
Arthur Bliss Lane.
Enclosure:

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
Enclosure:
Translation of a news item from EI ACIo AL of
April 10, 1933.
863.6
SEA:B

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.93)
Enclosure o. 1 to despatch o. 2.1 of April 18,
193s, from the mbussy at  exico City.
OURCE: L ACIOHAL
April 10, 1.33
Hexico City
DO  r fO CO
The lare transactions between coun-
tries shouln conform to the treaties
in 'orce
he new thesis
Under it Commerciul r edom is Jubor-
dinated to the Internationul reaties
ormos tranuction
he Doctrine in uestion  been
ori inated by the Purchase which Jupan
has made of  exico or soke
ith r rerence to the report pu lishet recently
to the ei'fect th:t the Jup nese Mapire had purchased
a lurce ua vity of mimeral coal Trom the coul mines
of abinas, coahuila, e e ic ress a insinuct-
ed a st: te f ffuirs lit le mown to the public in
eneral with relation to the foasi pility f ivute
compunies of forei n n tionality ustablished in tnother
country erlectin transactions without  reviously re-
uestin the permissi on or their ov  ment, which must
conform, in its decision, to the in ternationtl treaties
in Poree bes on the purchasin country nd thut to
Mhich the company ith  ic it is uoin: susiness balon's.
The report stated that the nese hpire had re-
vuested of the coal nines of  inas, oo:huilu, two
hunured un ifty thousund tons or coke, uddin that
the company in uention nas denled havin eceived such
an order tnd at ritutin the reports to bnis effect to
a false report purposely sent to exico rrom ucrumento,
Culifornia.
But the novel featire of ali t is is the doctrine
laid down in internationel con erce nich, if true,
subordinates the tre m f commerce and trade to the
international treaties existine, comurcial ur politic l.
fhe report in guestion, which was published in the
United States as from ueva losita, Coah., reads as fol-
lows:
In the first

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.94)
-3-
"In the first place, the Sabinas Company has
not received an order for two hundred thousand tons
of coal for the Japanese mpire, the detuils of
which have spread quickly and been published in
more than a hundred newspapers of uifferent lan-
cuages and nationalities, special importace bein
iven thereto. In the second place, if the order
were true, she transaction would be complicuted,
for the company ex loitin: that mineral in lexico
is cn merican company und, in ac ordance with the
treaties between the reat power-, it could not
sell a single ton to Japun if its  overnment ad-
vised it not to do so."
The subject has been discus ed with interest
in the industriul centers f shis  pital, touch-
ing on the linits of the boycott sugcested in the
Learue of Hutiona aainst Japan when the peuce
talks in the cuse f unchuria fuiled recently,
to which, uccor ding to disputches, the United States
was invited, in spite  the f ct that it does not
bel  to the League of ti ons.
Phe sme report concludes by suyin thtt the
order of two hundred thouswnd tons would not definite-
ly solve the problem of our decade..t coal inuustry,
since the filline of it only represented tlo months'
work.
lril ted b
i0

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20212/344
SEE .....811.20212../...19
FOR
Report.4536
FROMMil1tary--Attache.
) DATED .Apr11..21.1933
TO
Mexico
NAME
1—1127
REGARDING: Translation of an anonymous article from LA PRENSA
entitled "Alleged American and Japanese espionage in
Baja California, Mexico.
FLH

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
812.52J27/51
desp # 194
894.20212/345
SEE
FOR
FROM Mexico
(Dani els
..) DATED.
June7.1933
TO
NAME
1—1127
REGARDING:Japanese Naval officers posin& as Japanese fishermen have
been sounding out the Pacific West Coast of Lower
California.
FLH

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.76)
14
Xoxi00, Jume 7, 1038.
so.
e io
-aliforniu.
:1
.15:
,rontpur
portdtcon ent
Jopn11nerf
the newn eor
ntil
writton by one lo. mbio  orrere astillo rasardine
sho potivities of Jnpanenc mubjocts rexidin- in Lower
Californle. have te  1 ro tn rrent
Snat  pesiel despatoh to
ro
Somere, pbl1bed 1n Ite undey eit1 n June 4, l988.
semments en am artiele whiuh eppeared in a recent issue
of

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.77)
- a -
culliY, and whi w ld to have been
written by un aost t the United tates aval Intelli-
genee ervice.
ccordttte artiole puullones inU
theent  tre vel intel irnoe Joviee, wbuo 
tiiivenid t haveee  ntinal
roveletions iin urticic biio in1
Y
the uthrsi itn tht pvorel
neyfieanose flahormn had
14
sclfio uut
.onil
r1 1s vleit to
r fisor
er
aharre 1
or
vunl
artrenillo d that from
batort te lleeeiu the
y
voyare dlfrerentorte lifornie
pporontiy rit o let  Ilut in relity
mkinr ooundine nd churto  the ulr.
The hmays corres ondent f
i. in om
mentin on the artioin sbuve reforred to, states that he
is able to sorreborate that purtiun uf the egont's state-
ment regrdi the prosonoe  the Jepuneso fishin boats
in uagoas snd recorains their sucden sbonconmont of
sheir emterpriee on the est coast due, wo the Jepanese
elalmed, to vexlean labor laws reguirin, the employmeat
of 90% Veziean workmen.
The Jepamese Logetien, mocordins to a letter waich
i ddressed to she nger of: v l, referenee
te whih mas publiehed in its ecition of June é, loss,
pramptly

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.77)
-3-
premptly branded au faloo und imexmct the allegatlons
made regarding the activitles of Japanese Bisbermen in
Lover cali: ornie es curried in a front pege artiole in
 Usy  une oh. dair tt Japen hme no
tretoglol ulme tt wou justi  the
Jupenace
1th
owerliroraic1 tekine
ploturost
n of
Junl  riicnithe
articir
viafl
ieononal
nuts
rd ruvl Jlvi
from tre atend olt f uratlistic ethlos, but fro
the standouint  te duty f  exico os a neutrel natiom
in e more r less neur und probetle coafllct."
pectully vur
Jocsphus uniels.
880

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.84)
AUG 0 1934
hote
2ur. Solun
boa writters
 lette, to
mefico re
duplicate copy
of thie depath
which waa vst
receisin Dept.

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.93)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Jehruary 27,1934
He have beerw hearing
Sreah deal 9s brai latet.
This is the hesh reporh on hime
that I have seen. N is woll
reading in full.
2

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 19, 1934.
I do not think that you need to read
through despatch No. 3, dated January 11,
1934, from the Consulate at Guaymas, Mexico.
It states that a certain Japanese who is a
Japanese professor at a university in Mexioo
City has been traveling up and down the west
coast of Mexico giving lectures on Japan and
"endeavoring to gain the good will of the
Mexican people in case of a Japanese war".
The Consulate quotes a letter from a Mexican
to the effect that this Japanese speaker will
not gain much success in this mission, as the
Mexicans in that part of the country would
not, in the event of a war between the United
States and Japan, "side mentally or physically
with them"(hapanese)
HD
EHD/REK

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.95)
OF
AMERICAN CONSULAT
E
Guaymas, Mexico, Janua ry 1, 193
Divinon
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JAN 18 1934
1734SION OF
89420212
AFEA1
Depertent of State
IAN
T
SUBJECT:
Japanese Propaganda.
G
894.20212/546
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
I have the honor to inform the Department that
professor of Philosophy and Letters at the Universidad
Autónoma de México, Mexico City, has been traveling
through the Mexioan west ooast during the past few
weeks for propaganda purposes in behalf of his
country.
only
Dr. AraI held his/oonferenee in this distriot
at Navojoa, Sonora, on the evening of December 30,
195s. Invitations were sent to the most prominent
Porsons of the area by the Japanese Colony of Navojoa
In behalf of Dr. Araf and the attendanoe is said to
JAN 22 1934
have been very good.
The impression is geined from the opinions of
seral permons who heard hie talks that Dr. Arat is

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
very confidential source at Navojoa (Mr. Agustín von
Borstel, a prominent Mexioan agriculturist, business
man and commission broker):
"The impression made on all parties hearing
this Orator, seams to me were of a ouriosity
nature; He speaks Spanish fluently, and oertainly
covers an appeal to human nature and latin coun-
tries popularities.
"He talked a great deal, advising that Capital
and Labor should march in unison; otherwise Govern-
ments leaning to one side or the other will certainly
fail.
"Thence he touohes Far Eastern problems of his
Country and explains why his Country had to take
steps in China and Manohuria and forces final
arguments, that Japan does not wish war with USA.,
but in case it is provoked, Japan accepts 'el reto'.
('the ohallenge').
My idea and believe many other presents
opined the same way, is, that he is a missionary
preparing the good will of all the people he talks
to, in case his Country should be engaged in war with
US▲. I believe that he is mistaking, as people in
general-in this seotion, would not side mentally or
physically with them. And believe that all his
countrymen, living in this seotion are 'planted'
officers."
Dr. AraI illustrates his talks with motion piotures
whioh allegedly deal to a small extent with industrial
and scenic views of Japan and ohiefly with maneuvers of
the Japanese Army and Navy. Apparently the object of Dr.
Araf's talk is not commeroial, as it had been thought
before he visited this distriot.
An officer of this consulate had occasion to talk
with several persons of Hermosillo, the capital of the
State, who informed him that Dr. AraI had held a
conference there on the evening of January 6, 1934.
This conference was similar to the one depicted above
and

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.98)
3-
and the points brought out in the text of the letter
quoted above may be considered as typical of those of
most of the more prominent persons of this area.
Respeotfully yours,
Guy W. Ray,
Amerioan Vice Consul.
Enolosures:
l. Translation of invitation
mentioned above.
2. Translation of article which appeared in the
HERALDO DEL YAQUI on December 14, 1933.
In quintuplicate to Department;
Copy to Embassy, Mexi ∞;
Copy to Consulate General, Mexioo.
Confidential File
AFY-rgs-8.

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.99)
TRANSLATION
The Japanese Colony takes pleasure in inviting
you and your family to the conference on Japan which Dr.
Kinta Araf, Professor of the Faculty of Philosophy and
Letters of the Universidad Autónoma de Méxioo who is
here in transit for the purpose of study, shall hold
at the Royal Theater on the 30th instant at 6 P. M.,
in accordance with the enclosed program.
Navojoa, December 29, 1933.
(signed) The Japanese Colony.
PROGRAM
Speech of Dr. Kin ta Araf.
Subjeot: Japan of Today.
Motion Pictures.
The four seasons of the year in Japan.
Maneuvers of the Japanese Army.
-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.99)
BLATION OF ARTICLE WHICH APPEARED IN THE HERALDO
DEL YAQUI On DECEMBER 14, 1933.
 JAPANESE DOCTOR SHALL VISIT CAJEME
Dr. Kinta AraI, the Japanese orator
(conferencista), who is traveling through the
Republic as a propagandist for his country, is
about to visit Ciudad Obregón. The professional
in question is proposed to deliver a speech here
on matters concerning his country, in an effort to
picture his country in its industrial aspect and
as a people of a solid culture.
At the same time that Dr. AraI comes to bring
out the qualities of the Japanese Empire, he
illustrates his talks with moving pictures whioh
also depict the tenacious industry of the
oriental people under reference.
The doctor shall probably hold only one
conference here. He is coming from Sinaloa where
he is expected on the 18th instant.
The presentation of Dr. AraI in Ciudad
Obregón probably will be towards the end of the
current mon th.
-x-x-x-x-

=== Page 176 === (confidence 1.00)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 23, 1934.
The Consul at San Luis
Potosi seems to enjoy sending
in copies of anonymous letters.
The copy sent with his
despatch of January 16, 1934,
is not of interest to the
Division.

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.96)
LATIN AMERI
RS
1934
DEPARTMENT OF SIATE
AMERICAN CONSULATE
San Luis Potosi, México, January 16, 1934.
Divigion of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JAN 22 1934
SuBJEcT: Anonymous Letter Regarding Japanese
Activities in Lat in America.
EC.
2
3
ON OFF
THESEGBETARY OF STATE.
894.20212/347
JAM41034
LATIN
WASHINGTON.
ht of State.
SIR:
I have the honor to transmit herewith an undated
anonymous letter received in this office a few days
ago. The letter is signed "HJK". It is not known to
whom these initials refer.
The paper, the type and the wording of this letter
indicate to the undersigned ofricer that it was written
by the same person who wrote the letters reported upon
94.20212241
in des patch No. 35l from this office uated February 5,
1933.
Geot. Shaw
Res pectfully yours,
Geo. P. Shaw
American Consul
Enc losure :
JAN 2 6 1934
Copy of anonymous letter.
FILED
In duplicate to the Department;
Copy to Embas sy;
Copy to Consulate General.
800.
GPS/ET.
e

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.93)
(Copy).
San Luis Povosi
Mr. Gea P. haw, merican Consul
City.
Sir:-
The Japanese Consul of this City, Was telling
several Mexicans th t soon arter tne U. o. Fleet
goes back invo tlantic wuter: in uhe eurly spring
of 1934; Jupanese ents now in heir way to the
Repub lic of Colombia vili destroy the Panae Canal
locks so as to prevent he  ericen leet irom
recros sing he Pnam Cume 1 into the Paciiic; the
Ja anese Fleet at the stme tine u tackin the
Philippine Islunas unu I wai;
Your riena
11JK

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.89)
Called-for Series No. 8
mitted in compliance with an instruction from the
rican Consul General, Mexico City, dated November
1933, Circular No. 42.)
a
Fle
F/ES
IVISION OF
EC
ESP
AN AFFAIRS,
IAN·86·1934
ARTMENT OF STAT
ment of State.
TOm
894.20212/348
A-C/C
Diviaon ol
FAR EASIERN AF
JAN 25 1934
80
Depurtmeut of State
EFFORTS TO EXTEND MARKET FOR JAPANESE GOODS
From: 1 honm 1 Ph
94.7.217
American Consul,
Thomas H. Robinson
Nogales, Sonora, Mexico.
Date of Preparation: January 12, 1934.
Date of Mailing: January 12, 1934.
9 1934
FIlI.ED
0
11
LL

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.99)
FFORTS TO EXTEND MARKET FOR JAPANESE GOODS
Reference is made to a mimeographed instruction from
the American Consul General, Mexico City, dated November
10, 1933, Circular No. 42, which requested reports on
efforts to extend the market for Japanese goods in the
Nogales consular district, and to the consulate's report
on the matter dated December 19, 1933. At that time the
consulate reported entirely in the negative to the specific
questions in the circular in question, namely (1) Is there
an increasing consumption of Japanese merchandise and to
what extent; (2) Name classes of Japanese merchandise
consumed; (3) Is there any concerted effort on the part
of the Japanese to promote sales of Japanese merchandise
in the distriot? and (4) What is the attitude of the
merchants in general towards Japanese merchandise?
The reply to questions (1), (2) and (4) can still
be negative. The volume of Japanese merchandise sold in
the Nogales consular district is very small and the con-
sulate has seen no evidence of any increase. Although
some interest in Japan and its produc ts seems to have
been aroused by efforts to extend the market for Japanese
goods which forms the sub ject of this report, the general
attitude of local merchants can still be stated as indif-
ferent. They have no prejudice against such products, but
apparently no great interest in them.
Question No. 3 of the circular cannot, however, now
be answered in the negative. Since the beginning of the
year Dr. Kinta Arai, Profesor de la Facultad de Filosofia y
Letras de la Universidad Autonoma de Mexico, has been
touring

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
touring through the district delivering a series of
lectures concerning Japan. He delivered one leoture in
Hermosillo on January 4, 1934, and two in Nogales on
Januery 9th and 10th, 1934. The consulate has not been
able to prcure details of his itinerary, but he has
doubtless leotured elsewhere in the district. It is noted
that his programs at Hermosillo and Nogales were identical
and it seems probable that he has it arranged so that what
he wishes to say may be made to cover either one or two
lectures. In regard to the lecture in Hermosillo the
consulate received a report from an American citizen
resident in that city to the effect that he felt that
the lecture was "rather antagonistic to the United States,
altho there was no direct mention of the United States."
The consulate found nothing in the Nogales lectures to
justify that statement and believes either that he modified
the lecture for the border city, or that the American
citizen in question was over-zealous in his patriotism.
However, the object of the lectures can not be doubted.
There was no direct appeal for the expansion in the sale
of Japanese goods, but while the lectures reviewed all
phases of Japanese life, there was an undoubted emphasis
on the commercial side.
The lectures in Nogales were very well attended.
Advanoe notices and the invitations to attend, which were
distributed by the local Japanese community, did not refer
to the commercial aspects of the lectures and the audience
was naturally mixed. Whether the leotures attained their
objeot of arousing commercial interest remains, for the
present

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
present at least, an open question.
It might be added that the lectures were followed
up by the publication of an artiole headed "Intercambio
Comeroial con el Japon" in "El Noreste" for January
10, 1934. "El Noreste" is the only newspaper published
in Nogales, Sonora. A translation of the article in
question is enclosed.
Encl osure:
Translation.
File No. 6lo.1
THR/AGW
Copy for the Department of State;
Copy for the Consulate General, Mexico City;
Copy for the Commercial Attaché, Mexico City.

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.99)
Translation of Article from "El Noreste,"
January 10, 1934)
Commercial Exchange with Japan
Mexico has the opportunity of increasing its
commercial relations with Japan, what with our commodities
such as cotton, henequin, chicle, raw tobacco, candle
wax, etc., while in exchange we can purchase from the
sons of the eastern sun some menufactured articles which
are not made in Mexico, such as lamps and eleotrical
appliences, sporting goods, silks, etc., with the
added advantage that by trading with Japan we can buy
them cheaper than in any other country.
The Department of Foreign Commerce of the Secretaria
de Economia of Mexico, D. F. furnished this information,
stating that the "NYk" Steamship Company is now ready to
grant a ∞ nsiderable discount in its carrying charges
to Mexican ports from Japanese ports, where a decided
advant age is given the company in the volume of the
ocean going trade.
In this manner our products can be sent to Japan
at a much cheaper rate, and in turn our articles can be
sold cheaper where a demand exists for them.

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.88)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
IVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 12,1934.
SKH:
Dispaleh No.537 frow
Kindad Juarez, dated
February 6,1934, reporls
on the activi lies o Dr Kuita
Arai, formerly of the Japanese
Diplomatie Pervice snd now
prosrror  Japanese
cullure int the lueversets
Merico.
The dupateh and euslooare

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.90)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
are intresting and should
he read in full.
Dr. brai, according lo
scent reporls is about to
make a brip wito the
lmilit Shales.

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.93)
MMECD
537
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
MAR281934
Ciudad Juarez, Mexicd, February 6, 19
894.20212
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
EN
FEB 1034
CONFIDENTIAL.
Department of State
F
SUBJECT:
Activities of Dr. Kinta Arai, Japanese
G
1—1085 GPO
Propagandist.
Department of Steto
394.20212/349
THE HONORABLE
Grade
LICSA.
THE SECRETARY OENSTATFAIRS,
MID
 WITON.
COPISENT TO
SIR:
lile
mant of Stare:
I have the honor to report to the Department that
on February 2nd and 3, 1934, a Japanese propagandist
by the name of Dr. Kinta Arai, claiming to be a
professor of philosophy in the University of Mexico,
gave a series of free lectures in Ciudad Juarez, spon-
sored by the local Japanese colonies in Ciudad Juarez
and El Paso. Printed notices of the lectures were
distributed both in El Paso and Juarez among the Mex-
MAR
ican people.
FILED
八
Believing that Dr. Arai's lectures were undoubted-
2
2
ly in the interest of Japanese propaganda and probably
191
3
initiated by the Imperial Japanese Government, it wast
considered necessary thet someone in the confidence of
the Consulate be detailed to attend, with a view to
ascertaining the kind of propaganda this man was dis-
tributing in Mexico.
I conferred with the Military Intelligence Officer
at

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
at Fort Bliss, and it was arranged that one of his under-
cover men would be detailed to attend all of the lec-
tures and make a thorough report thereon. A young man
by the name of Smith, thoroughly conversant in Spanish
and well educated, was detailed to the assignment, and
1/
I enclose herewith copy of his report made to Major
Lacey, Post Intelligence Officer at Fort Bliss, Texas.
I am informed that Dr. Kinta Arai has been lec-
turing throughout Mexico for several months and that
this is his second visit to the border, he having been
at Nogales, Sonora, some time ago, where he gave lec-
tures similar to those given in Juarez. I understand
that Dr. Arai is now in Chihuahua City and from there
will r turn to the interior of Mexico where he is slated
to give lectures and exhibit his motion pictures, un-
questionably prepared for Japanese propaganda.
After conversing with a number of Mexicans who
attended the lectures, I am of the opinion that Dr.
Arai is considered as a Japanese propagendist and that
while his talk was interesting, it was, nevertheless,
accepted by the Mexican people as propaganda in the
interest of Japan with a view to winning the good-
will of Mexico in the event of var at some time in the
future.
The report of the under cover man is very detailed
and, I believe, very accurate.
Resnectfully

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.96)
- 3-
Respectfully yours,
.D
American Consul.
Enclosure:
No.1. Copy of report covering lectures made by
Dr. Kinta Arai.
820.02
WPB/NLS
In duplicate to the Department.
Copy to the Embassy.
Copy to the Consulate General.
JM

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.97)
- COPY -
CONFIDENTIAL.
Dr. Kinta Arai - Jananese.
Feb. 2, 1934. Dr. Kinta Arai's lecture was started
in the "Salon de Novedades" in Juarez at 8:00 PM by his
being introduced by one Señor Victores Prieto, a Juarez
attorney. This introduction mas of twenty minutes
duration, and was embellished by the usual amount of
"bull" so often encountered in the Spanish language,
about friendship.
Dr. Arai opened his address by stating, very casu-
ally, that he was a professor of ph losophy in the
University of Mexico. This statement was never men-
tioned agein. He stated that his purmose in the lecture
was solely in the interest of peace end understanding;
........ "Understanding and knorledge of each other is
the besis of amiability and friendship between both
nations and individuals."....... This theme was very
closely followed in the entire address, nor could I
discern from his talk any other motive than the above
stated. His talk was principelly on the past of Jepan
and a statement that .... "in the past Japan has fought
because she had to fight to preserve herself.".... He
stated, ...."Japan expects another wer and he is ready
and she will win because the greatness and glory of
Japan is due to the unity and equclity amons her different
classes and her internal orgenization."....."Japan is
very eificient at war but she vants peace.".... He
favors an international cuirence to promote better un-
derstandin; between nations.
This Jap is a lettered and cultured man who has
traveled all over the world. He stetea he had been
around the world five times and had b en in every nation
in the world, and th-t he had been in the diplomatic
corps. He is about five feet and four inches tell, weighs
approximately 150 poun s. I s oula judge  im to be sixty
years old, rey heir end sncll rey mousteche, wears
glasses. He was immeculately iressed (evening clothes).
He speaks the Hexicen language simply and perfectly and
in a manner thet could be understood by the most un-
lettered Mexican. In other words, he knovs his audience.
He spoke for one hour and fifty minutes.
The motion pictures, which have no doubt been used
many times, were as follows:
Each reel approximetely ten minutes.
1 reel
..Japan in the spring.
1
11
Japan in the summer.
1
11
..Janan in the autunn.
1
.Japan in the vinter.
1
11
.A review of the Japanese
navy (1928). (American Naval
officer noted.)
1
11
.The copper industry.
1
11
The crab meat (fishing)
industry.
1

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2-
1 reel
..........The cotton weaving industry.
1
11
.The silk industry.
The tone of the entire lecture and the pictures
Cave me the imprension of being intended to promote
the greatness ond glory o Japean end to gain sympathy
for little Japan against large nations; he mentioned
the smellness of Japan severel times. It was a very
subtle talk at which no country could take offense.
It wes purely pro-Japanese, that country being men-
tioned many many times, (granatically speaking; force
of repetition).
This man is clmost perfectly chosen as a pro-
pagandist and I believe could speak in eny nction with-
out excitin comment, except from those who are "in
the know".
The crovd who heard his lecture I estimated to be
et slightly over 5o0, the cavacity of the hall being
about 450. I observea four Hexican Army officers, trelve
stulents from the Juarcz Agricultural College with two
teachers, a fer society Hexicans, about 2oo uoper middle
class Hexicans, the belence being children end the class
of people who woul come to anything that wes free.
February 3, 1954. In an interview of about ten
minutes with Dr. Arai tolay he st tes thet he was making
there lectures of his ovn initictive an? inelination
during a vecation from the Univ rsity. He stated he was
asked to do this by the Hexican goverment on cccount of
a dearth of foreign lecturers who hei sufficient command
of the Spanish lan ue e to talk to the people of Hexico.
He stated thet he hope very much to be ble to
lecture in the United  ts en in the near future. (Al-
though, understending the Englich languege elnost per-
fectly, his enuncirtion roula not be suitable for
speaking to En linh-upeekin crowds.)
He stetea ho inten lea to yo to Chihuchua City the
4th or 5th to visit friends and vould probably lecture
there. He ereed with the Jemenese embessedor to the
United tetes, Hiroshio Seito, that there vas no dan-
ger of ver vith Ru nia, oni stcte there was no real
basis for  wer between Japan and any nstion. (All
throurh his lectures he st ted and inferred that Japan
expected a war coon and wes ready for one.)
When asked which part of Hexico "es most responsive
to his lectures, in an effort to dra out here he had
been, he said, "At every place I have lectured I have
received a  eeting and response similer to the hos-
pitable welcome which hes been accorded me here in
Juarez."
His second lecture, w ich started at 2:30 PM and
together with his pictures lasted four hours, dealt
principally

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.96)
-3-
principally with the philosophy of the Japenese mind,
the home and internal life of Japan, thei r form of
government, stressing their great unity. He dealt
particularly on the statement, ....."Every Japanese
soldier expects to die soon, does not value his life like
people of other nations, and is anxious to give his life
for his country and religion."......
He publicly thanke? the Jananese colony in Juarez
for their hospitelity and reminded the Mexican people how
fortunate they mere to h ve such smart and friendly peo-
ple in their midst. (Dr. T. Hasegawa is, I believe, the
leader of the Jananese colony there.) He made no state-
ment which was directed particularly at the United tates
or which mi ht be called subversive to this country.
The motion pictures, (two hours) were betveen
five and ten minutes in length for each reel except the
Army Maneuvers which vas ebout 35 minutes. He explained
each one and in moct cases stated, making many over es-
timations, thet Javan produced more or the best of this
or that, than eny other nation in the world. The pictures
at the second lecture ore cs follows:
1 reel
..Health resort (Hot sprin s.)
1
11
.Tec Inaustry.
1
"
.Ceranic Industry.
1
.Bicycle Industry.
1
11
.Brocade veaving.
1
1f
....Cotton Printin.
(Stated the jealousy of oth r notions of the
world over Jananese lesdershin in this in-
dustry promised to leed to ver some day.)
1 reel
..........Glass Industry.
1
.......Match Industry.
(In which many brands found on the Anerican
market vere recognized.)
1 rcel
knitte Goods.
1
11
.........Shipyards.
3 reels......
....Arny Haneuvers.
(The Haneuvers  ere a perticularly interesting
part of the oro rem ond showed these branches:
Infantry, Cavelry, Artillery, Engineers,
Transportetion, Air Service, Chemical Warfare,
Armore i Jars ana Tanks, and Hedical Corps,
(Evacuation only). A rontal attack by In-
fantry after Artillery, Tank and Chemical
preparation and a flanking movement by
Cavalry was shown in actual sequence. I know,
from expeience, that many of these army pic-
tures were nosed shots and had to be taken,
some of them severel timos, in order to et
the desired effect. Th re is no doubt in my
mind that they were taken for the purpose of
Jananese military propaganda, either internal
or external.)
In about one-fourth of the reels shown in Juarez
the explanatory headins mere written in En lish and were
probably intended for English speaking countries. The
balance,

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.97)
-4-
balance, with one exception, shipyards, were Spanish.
The shipyards headings were, I believe some language
of a Polish nature.
In summin up the lectures and pictures as described
above, I can say that Janan has chosen an excellent
medium, in Dr. Arei, for the spreading of propaganda.
He spoke of no subject other than Japan. He left an
almost inlelible impression of the greatness and glory
of that country on his audience. There is no doubt as
to his personal patriotisn and his ability to portray
and convince a Hexican audience thct his country is one
of the createst on carth, pivitually, economically and
martially.
There is no doubt in my mind that the Japanese
government is sponsoring, or at least has knowledge
of these lectures. Dr. Arai is probably at quite
some expense and there is no doubt thet hic personal
efforts are tryin: and difficult in many instances.
A person o: similar talents and similer vork in the
United States Would receive an excellent salary. It is
highly improbable that either the pictures of the Naval
Review or the Army Haneuvers vould be in his or any other
persons' possession vithout lirect knowledge of the
Imperial Japanese War and Nevy Departments. They ere
of much greater value than mere nevs reels ena were no
doubt designed and taken for  particuler minsion. Dr.
Arai, on both appearances, wore e red "Order of the Jun"
in his coat lepel.
The audience this afternoon vas of about the same
composition and consi ted of some 450 Mexicans but was
conside ably more responsive then that of last evening.
Particularly noted was the fect thet on the s owing of
the Japanese flag at the beginning of the Army Haneuvers,
applause of about one-hal: minute duration persisted
throughout the aucience. This apolause wes sterted by
the Japanese who vere in the aulience. I understand he
lectured to the stuients of the Juarer A ricultural
College.

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Maroh 7, 1934.
The Navy Department's letter
of February 13, 1934, sends further
information regarding Dr. Kianta
Arai. The ONI report is not of
particular interest, as it adds
very little to what we already
know; but I think you will be in-
terested to read the press clipping
from a newspaper published in
Japanese at Los Angeles, reporting
a speech made by Arai at Los
Angeles.

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.92)
Divislon of
FR EASTEAN AFFAIRS
FEB 15 1934
DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
A
WASHINGTON
OF STATE
FEB 13 1934
RFCORDS
Confidential
DEPAPTMENT OF STATE
JON OF
N AFFAIRS,
RFOEIVED
1:8141921
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
294
Sir:
894.2021
I am forwarding herewith for your information
a copy of a confidential letter from the Commandant, Eleventh
Naval District, together with a clipping from the Los Angeles
Japanese Daily News of 30 January, 1934.
2
Respectfully,
5
B. L. RCOSEVELT
Aine Soy tho Nax
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State.
Enc.(2)
A 1934
FILED
Confidentien

=== Page 195 === (confidence 1.00)
-33-J
COPY
Commandant's Office
Eleventh Naval District,
San Diego, Calif.
onfidential
3 February 1934.
CONFIDENTIAL
From:
Commandant.
To:
Director of Naval Intelligence.
Subject:
Clippings re Japanese Activities.
Enclosure:
(A) Two sheets of clippings re Japanese Activities.
(B) Clippings re Kinta Arai.
1.
Enclosure (A) is forwarded as being of possible interest
to the Director.
2.
Enclosure (B) is forwarded as being of probable interest
to the Director and possibly to the State Department (copy inclosed).
Professor Arai had previously held three meetings in Tia Juana, Mexico,
the latter part of January; these were covered by an agent from this
District. The meetings were attended by about one hundred and twenty-five
Japanese, mostly ranchers from Lower California, and some seventy-five
Mexicans. The subject of discussion, in general, was Japanese colonization
of Lower California. It appears that Professor Arai holds the same
position of official propagandist for his country in Mexico as Professor
Ken Nakazawa holds in the Los Angeles section. It is believed that the
statement that there are now more than three hundred thousand Japanese in
Mexico is a mis-print.
3.
This propaganda of Professor Arai's may be a part of a
general plan throughout Mexico of a Japanese attempt to regain their recent-
ly weakened friendship with the Mexicans, which they had so laboriously
built up since 1920.
4.
Should more information be desired by the Director on the
sub ject of Professor Arai, it will be obtained.
J. H. EVERSON,
By direction.
©onfidenrial

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.98)
FOR DEPARTMENT OF STATE, WASHINGTON, D.Ć.
From The Los Angeles Japanese Daily News, January 30,1934.
URGE CLOSER
CONTACT WITH
S. AMERICA TO
AID NIPPON
Prof. K. Arai Reveal
Reasons For Mexico
Anti-Japanese View,
Monroe Doctrine
 gesture of pa
Closer relationship with the
Latin-American nations of the
much more fa
panese.
lHed upon for support at an inter-
"The Monroe Doctring
national conference was stressed
considered in South
by Prof. Kaneta Arai of the Uni-
insult upon their
versity of Mexico in speaking be-
sumcient to arou
inga asociation.
"There are today 20 nations out
was the startling
of the 54 in the world today con-
Professor Aral
centrated on the South American
continent. Any nation that can
South Americans are actually
obtain the mupport of 20 votes at
a world-wide conference is in a
position that cannot be easily de-
nied," Professor Arai stated.
to the advantage of the Nippo
"Had the Japanese government
ese."
treated South America not mere-
He stated that there are now
ly in terms of a trade outpost or
more than 300,000 Japanese in
an immigration dumping-ground
Mexico today.
but as a group of nations to be
dealt with as much respect and
diplomatic importance as that of
the United States or an European
country Japan may not have had
to withdraw from the League of
Nations."
Authority on South America
Through his experience in the
diplomatic serviée as consul and
secretary to the legation in Mex-
ico City during the past s0 years
and being known in the South
American countries as the fore-
most Japanese who can speak the
Spanish language as well as his
native tongue Professor Arai's
opinion will be acepted as author-
Itative in offcial Japan.

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.93)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Feb. 20,193%.
you may rememher that
a copy of this despatch loas.
cirelelated through the Drvision
a few days ago.
[

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.95)
640
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
m
Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, Febrary 15, 1934.
Divigion of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
lx2
F/E
FEB19 34
FEB 20 1934
Lel
CONFIDENTIAL.
Depertment of State
SP
SUBJECT:
—1006 GPO
Propa andist.
JN OF
894.20212/351
CAN AFF IRS
THE HONORABLE
FEB 21934
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.
adrt ment of State.
SIR:
537 of February 6, 1934, concernin; the activities
of Dr. Kinta Arai, a Japancse propa andist, and to
1/
enclose herewith copy of a report made by the In-
spector in Charge, United States Immi mation Service
at Nogales, Arizona, to the Dictrict Director on
January 19, 1934, regardin: the visit of Dr. Kinta
Arai to Nogales, Sonore, enl subsequent temporary
admission to the United totes.
FEB
FILED
2
Respectfully yours,
3
1934
iem P. Bto
American Consul.
Enclosure:
No.1. Copy of report, ac above.
820.02
WPB/NLS
In duplicate to the Deertment.
Copy to the Embassy.
Copy to the Consulate General.
FP

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.91)
- COPY -
U. S. DEPARTIENT OF LABOR
Immigretion ana Naturalicrtion Service
Office of Inspector in Charge
Moeles, Arizone
In answerin: refor to
Ho. 440/8
Jenurry 19, 1954.
District Dircctor or Immi  tion en Meturclizetion,
l Peco, Ten.
(Conri entiel)
On the lath inatont toore popeere i et this pout
a Japanene, Kintr Ari, wrle, 54 yonr of e, cooly-
in or aamicion toor ril for two months erti
to Los Anrcl s, Orliformic to eo et to Mexico by vay
of El P co, T s. He  in posrersion of Jepenem
pacr port Ho. Ooseal i. u  y the Jepenoce Concul Gen-
crel et Mmico City, D. F. on Decc pur 1, lene, unlim-
ited. Thir pr soort ore cetion s(2) Tirr No. 356
issuea by the Au viern Conrul en l, Perico City, D.
F., on D cerber, lesr. H prenente recently leted
letter vritten on the lesterher of the University of
Mexico which st te th  he  o sloyea ar a teccher
of Jepenere Julture in the c pol of P locoply,
Univo sity of  ico. He pl o r  contly te
letter fron the Jr onore Eb cy in Ncxico City cddressed
to the Amcricen Concul enerrl in kxico City stetin
that this Jeornene waee rtine to the Unite' t tes
for a temporsry visit en ex rearin the Eubessy s ap-
precietion of any courtesi  w ich e Jonaul en l
mght extend him. He stote thct he rould re..uein in
the United States not ore than tro monthe ona that his
address while in tho Uni te  s  oul be the Japcnese
Consulate et Los An el c, Joli ornia. He Further
statei thet he would deprrt to Herico by vay of El Paso,
Texas, thence to exico City where he voul  continue in
his profession as e to er in th University of lexico.
The alien wes a lmitte on the 15th instant on
primary inspection for c temporcry visit of tro months
in the United States exempt from heea trx un er the
provisions of Clause "". He lid not, howeve, lpart
from Nogeles until the 17th in-tant vhen he left by
Northbound Southern Prcific train.  Durin this period
he was staying in Hogales, sonore, liexico.
There is attached cliping from the Arizone Daily
Star published at Tucson, Arizona, issue of January 18, 1934,
in which was described the lecture and film exhibits
furnished by Professor Arai in the Teatro Obre on of
Nogales, Sonora, Mexico on Sunday, Januery 14, 1934.
Mr. Azoona, manager of the Obregon Theatre of
Nogales

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.89)
- 2 -
Nogales, Sonore, atrtec that the Japanece colony of
No eles, onore en  ed this theatre eig t deys before
Profecsor Arei crrived an: paid 500 pesos for the use of
the theatre for two lays. The pro rem was announced to
be "Culturel Con erence"; ai ission war free to the
public on those lay en  the theatre wes crowded to
capacity by the evicon mublic on both lays. He further
stated thet had be un the mcture of the pre re. es
it turned out to e,  l not heve rented he
theatre for  our ose.
Com ento of inivincl a  ente of both Ho oles,
Sonort en Ho ch , arizonm o  tremto thie lecture
substenticlly custain the a rrl :ll , tione conteinea
in te enelo ney per cli pin par culerly toce
conscine in xrr  he 3 on 7.
ev val atve mentione
the cugger tion o the peofesror aet vor between the
Janene on  Uni
 in ci cirh
to the  wicen peoole to rhi n  moiv ite the win-
nine sie en e ilition t s e e on.
Phe Unie oiao ct o clee,
Arizone  no F co   i oo in en al o eny
net re wher he 
e on th 17th
instant to procee te th inturieu.
On the lote inetent Jo e Re e s Tlor, Movicen,
male, 3l yeerr or a, eppliea or cn er ranted trensit
edmission to xico o  o l P o, Tuor.
Hatated
that he is e levyer conncet  vit the Depertemento de
Hacienda, Hexico City, en recuated from the University
of Mexico e vocr c . In comntin on Profearor Arei
he steted thet he tnew o no cuch person bein: connocted
with this university. Cn the 18th instent Xr. I mrcio
Chaves, Chief Sur eon of the Jout. srn Prcific of Hexico
and Mr. Menuel e la Torre, ur eon for the Gua elajora
Division of the Sout ern Pacific of lexice, both of
Guadalejere, were camitte  for loccl crocsin: ct this
port. In coumenting on Profoncor Arai, both stetel that
Mr. a la Torre is now onl hn beon for come time Dean of
the College of Medicine in the University of Hexico and
Ir. a la Torre states thet he does not tmow of such a
person and never kner: o such a person's connection
with the University of Mexico.
The above is furnishei for your in orlation should
it be deencd advisable to ascertei through diplonatic
or other channels whether there is such a person connected
with the University of Mexico, or for ony other purpose
deemed appropriate.
(Signed) H. L. "ALKER,
Acting Inspector in Charge
HLW:RM

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.93)
EASTERUROPEAN AFPATHS.
90.
Ensenada, B.C., Mexico, February 21, 1934.
86
Division of
794.20212
FAR EASTERN AFF
2x0
FEB 27 1934
5
2
Department of State
E
SuBJEcT: Public Løctare on Japan.
VISA DIVISION
S
1—1055
N OF
90
AN AFFAIRS.
THEHONORABLE
fie
894.20212/
STATE
FOR
manl ar state.
WASHINGTON
G
MAR 3-134
SIR:
I have the honor to report that on the afternoon
and evening of January 24, and on the evenin: of Janu-
3
ry 25, 1934, there were held in the cinema theatre
52
at Ensenada under the auspices of the Japanese ssoci-
Arai, described in the printed invitations as Professor
of the School of Philosophy and Letters of the Univer-
sity of Mexico. The Consulate has not reported upon
Dr. Arai's lectures earlier because it wished in the
most casual way to ascertain the local reactions to
FILED
1
his speeches.
19
3
During his lectures, one of which I attended and 
others which were attenaed by members of the staff of
the Consulate, as invited uests, Dr. rai explained
that he had been in the Japanese diplomatic service
for many years previous to coming to Mexico and that
he had been a resident of Mexico for many years. He
speaks Spanish fluently.
In

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
In addition to his public addresses in Ensenada,
Dr. Arai lectured in Tijuana a few days earlier and it
is reported delivered addresses elsewhere in Mexico
during the same journey.
. The lectures, both in Ti-
juana and Ensenada, were well attended. Although
many of those who assembled were Japanese, those in
charge carefully reserved room for so.many of the
local officials and the better class of residents as
sought entrance.
Dr. Arai explained that his purposes in addressing
the public in Baja California were three. (1). To en-
deavor to bring about a better feeling between Japanese
and Mexican races. (2). To overcome or to refute
certain false reports which had been circulated recent-
1y, and (3), to furnish information about the develop-
ment and progress which had been made in Japan during
modern times.
The lecturer had little pleasant to say about
modern diplomacy. He stated that when diplomats did
not know the languages of the countries to which they
were accredited to it was not possible for them to
understand the inner feelings of the nationals in
those countries, and that, not understanding these
feelings, they could not properly interpret the actions
of those nationals. He deplored the fact that so many
books had been written about Japanese by travelers
who stayed only between boats. He added that true
progress in effecting racial friendship could best be
made by individuals who spoke a mutual language
fluently and who, therefore, might be expected to
understand each other well.
Dr.

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
Dr. Arai stated that newspapers had carried the
report that his journey to Baja California was motivated
by the fact that war between the United States and
Japan was inevitable and that he was endeavoring to
obtain the sympathy of Mexico in order that Mexico
should support Japan in the conflict. The lecturer
described such a report as absurd and false and that
there was no basis for any assumption that there
should be a conflict between the United States and
Japan. It is interesting to note, in this connection,
that no one with whom I have spoken has observed in
any newspaper reference to Dr. rai in the sense he
suggests, and one or two persons in casual conversa-
tions have expressed the opinion that the speaker was
but anticipating such an observation in the press.
The other reputedly baseless rumor which Dr. Arai
discussed was that there were in Baja California
Japanese spies interested in obtaining photographs
or information for the use of their government. This
also he termed as absurd and suggested that there was
no reason whatsoever for such espionage. He suggested
that the foundation for any such rumors undoubtedly
was the fact that there is a considerable number of
Japanese in Baja California, many of whom speak only
their own language and can not express themselves
well. Such persons, he asserted, might well be con-
sidered mysterious by those who could not intelli-
gently question them.
In treating of the progress which has been made
in Japan during modern times, the lecturer employed
a series of motion picture projections. He dwelt
upon

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
upon the educational, artistic, and commercial develop-
ments but the grand finale of the first evening's lec-
ture was the tremendous progress and the efficiency of
the Japanese navy and that of the second evening's
lecture was the splendid condition and strength of the
Japanese army.
The lecturer endeavored to show that Japan had
never provoked a war; that in its war with China it
had surmounted victoriously tremendous odds; and that
ten years later it had been victorious over even
greater odds in its war with Russia. He stated that
Japan would never fight save in the face of aggression
or to protect its national integrity. He clearly wished
to leave with his listeners the idea that in view of
Japan's victories over Chine and Russia, in the face
of tremendous obstacles, it now, with the great strides
which the nation has made in the last decade, might
surmount even greater odds.
Candidly, my opinion was that Dr. Arai's attitude
in his plea for peace was somewhat militant. s one
listener observed, he seemed to convey the idea that
Japan would have peace with iexico even though it
were necessary to fight for it. His speech has been
mentioned at a number of social atherings at which
the writer was present and all of my conversations
have been most casual. I have concluded that he ac-
complished little in Ensenada.
Those who may have
been moved favorably were moved but mildly; but those
who were influenced adversely have expressed them-
selves most bitterly. One of the higher ranking
federal officials in Ensenada stated that he intended
at
●

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.96)
-5 -
at the earliest opportunity to deliver a public address
on the subject: "What Dr. Arai Did Not Say."
I am enclosing with the original of this despatch,
newspaper clippings from the LA OPINION of Los Angeles,
California, and from EL HISPANO-AMERICANO and LA
FRONTERA of Tijuana, Baja California. These all refer
to his addresses in Tijuana.
Respectfully yours,
maSmar
Wm.C.male,
merican consul.
Enclosures:
(With original of despatch only).
1. From LA OPINION, January 28, 1934.
2. From EL HIsPANO-MERICANO, January 28, 1934.
3. From LA FRONTERA, January 27, 1934.
800.
WAS/jan
In quintuplicate to the Department.
Copy to the Consulate General.
Copy for the Ebassy.

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1,
Despatch No. 790,
February 21, 1934.
SOURCE: LA OPINION
Los ngeles, California,
January 28, 1934.
JAPON NUNCA
HA BUSCADO
LAS GUERRAS
JAPON NUNCAHA BUSCADO
(Sigue de la Sa. Pág.)
cias a la colonia nípona de Tifua
Cuando ha ido a ellas, es
vance de la civilización, alrededor
na "por habernos proporcionado la
del mundo hasta regresar al Orien
oportunidad de oir a un hombre de
porque lo han provoca-
te, su punto de partida":
la prominencia y sabidúría del · doc
tor Kinta Aral", dijo Mangel aña-
do, dice el Dr. Arai
De acuerdo con el conferencista
di6:
los grandes problemas con que se
"A su calidad de filósofo y maes
Corresponsal de LA OPINION
Por ARMANDO DOBLADO
ha enfrentado el mundo han sido
provocados en parte por el hecho
de haber avanzado la filosofía de
de ser gran amigo de México"
tro de la Universidad Nacional, une
un gran mérito para nosotros: el
..TIJUANA, Baja California, Ene-
Oriente. Y dice:
El ingeniero Julio Dávila, repre
ro 27.—"Por cerca de tres mil años,
"Los problemas sociales que tan
sentando al delegado Fernández
Japón nunca tuvo una guerra In-
poderosamente han conmovido al
Guerra, tomó la palabra también
ternacional y si peleó contra Chi-
mundo en los último años, han
en el banquete.
na y diez años más tarde contra
demostrado plenamente el fracaso
Rusia, no fué su espíritu guerrero,
ni mucho menos imperialista. Es
de la civilización Occidental, mien
tras que el Japón, donde sigue sien
CONDENA LAS
que las circunstancias lo obligaban
do ley de la vida social el princi
detener el empuje de dos países
pio filosófico dualista, es decir, el
GUERRAS DE
que querían aniquilarlo", dijo el
reconocimiento de los elementos de
doctor Kinta Arai, Ministro del Ja
la creación y la existencia de todos
pôn en México hasta 1918. y profe-
los seres y todo sus fenómenos, si
CONQUISTA
sor de Filosofía Oriental en la Uni
gue conservando sobre este princi
veraldad de México, cuando pronun
pio la integridad del hogar y la fa
cló una brillante conferencia en el
milia, manteniendo su equilibrio e-
Teatro Concordia de esta pobla-
conômico por el reconocimiento de
ción el altimo domingo, ante una
la indispensable colaboración entre
nutrida concurrencia.
el trabajo y el capftal para el flo
Acompañando a sus explicaciones
recimiento econômico".
objetivas varias exhibiciones cine-
matograficas donde desfilaron nu-
JAPON MEJORA GRADUAL-
merosos aspectos del Japón moder
MENTE
no, incluyendo sus industrias, sus
ejércitos y sus costumbres, el profe
Mientras que las grandes poten
sor Arai dijo que "su país nunca
clas mundiales, como resultado de
ha buscado guerra con otros paí
las últimas crits económicas han
ses, ni las buscará":
estado sufriendo fuertes pérdidas
"Solo nos hemos concretado a de
y desequilibrios, Japón, en los úl
fendernos cuando otro país tiene
timos años, ha obtenido considera
puesta la vista en el Japón con am
bles ventajas, dijo el doctor Arai.
biciones de expansión territorial",
"Durante el altimo año, Japôn au
dijo.
mentó su producción en un cuaren
El desenvolvimiento industrial y
ta por ciento en comparación con
polftica de Japón, que ha llevado
1932". declar6.
al Imperio del Sol Naciente a la
En homenaje al maestro de la
categóría de primera potencia mun
Universidad, un banquete fue eer
dial, fué explicado detalladamente
vido en el Hotel Comercial, ofre-
por el doctor Arai, quien, según a-
cido por la colonia japonesa de Ti
nunció al corresponsal de LA OPI
juana y al que asistieron repre-
NION, visitara mañana Los An-
sentantes de las fuerzas vivas lo-
geles.
cales.
"FALSAS ALARMAS"
Don Enrique Bordes Mangel
pronunció un•brillante discurso du
"Nadie debe temer una nueva
rante la comida para dar las gra
guerra provocada por Japón. No
desde ahora, sino desde hace cien
tos de años, nuestro país está con
vencido de lo inconveniente que es
para una nación aspirar a mayores
grandezas territoriales y a poseer
colonias diseminadas por todos los
mares", dijo, afadiendo:
"El punto débil de los Imperios
Coloniales estriba en eus colonias".
Después de pedir a sus oyentes
medios salvajes para decidir
eltas por que "la civilización Oc
desviando cada día
Dr. Kinta Arai, sabio y di-
plomático japonés, quien dioté
una interesante conferencia en
Tijuana, declarando en ella que
viene a com

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 2,
Despatch No. 790,
February 21, 1934.
JOURC_:
EL HISPANO MERICANO,
Tijuana, Baja Calif.,
January 28, 1934.
JIRA PRO-PAZ
DEL PROFESOR
KINTA ARAI
La Colenia Japonesa de Tijua-
las miserias y de las desorientaciones
na rindió merecido homena-
que hoy preocupan al mundo occiden-
je al aulto Profesor.— Un
tal, el olvido y el alejamiento de los
significative discurso
principios de la filosofía y de la cul-
tura que tuvo su origen en Caldea,
La presencia en enta población del
en Persia, en la India, en la China y
conocido educador, coincidiendo con
en el Japón hace muchos siglos. Com-
una situación internacional en la que
paró a los pueblos que deciden sus
suenan los nombres de Rusia, el Im-
diferencias de intereses por medio de
perio Japonés y Estados Unidos co-
la guerra, con las bestias que se dis-
mo posibles participantes de un nue-
putan una presa a dentelladas y con-
vo conflicto armado, fué interpreta-
denó la labor de los agentes diplo-
då por las personas enteradas de una
máticos d . los gobiernos, quienes en
posibilidad que es comentada actual-
vez de hacer labor de acercamiento
mente por todos los periódicos del
y mutua comprensión de pueblo a
mundo, como hábil maniobra de la fi-
pueblo, preparan e incuban los con-
na diplomacia jáponess para crear y
flictos de mañana con su eterna pug-
estimular las viejas simpatías que en
na en favor de los grupos capitalistas
nuestro país goza el Imperio del Sol
que predominan en sus respectivos
Naciente.
países.
Estos antecedentes explican que las
"Se pinta a mi patria, —dijo el
conferencias del Doctor Arai en el
Dr. Kinta Arai, refiriéndose al Jap
Teatro Concordia hayan atraído gran
— como nación eminentemente mifi-
número de concurrentes y que en el
arista y agresiva; pero en dos mil
banquete ofrecido. a dicho educador
años de existencia, mi país sólo ha
por la colonia japonesa de Tijuana,
sostenido d o s guerras internación
estuvieran representados los grupos
les, una contra China y la otra con-
más destacados de la sociedad de es-
tra Rusia, naciones mucho más gran-
población.
des que el Japón y que fueron venci
Poco después de las ocho de la no-
das por nosotros, porque de nuestró
lado estaba la razón y la justicia"
Largo y difícil sería detallar todos
los puntos del largo discurso del con-
ma preparada al efecto, más de
ferencista amigo de la paz interna-
cional, pues dicho discurso se prolon-
tamos, funcionarios públicos, profe-
gó por cerca de una hora, pero sí pue-
sionales, comerciantes, representantes
de afirmarse, que el culto ordaor de-
de la prensa y de otras actividades.
jó en su auditorio la impresión de la
A la hora en que fué servido el
sinceridad de sus conceptos condena-
café, el Sr. José G. Nonaca conocido
torios de la guerra, al mismo tiempo
fotógrafo de la localidad en su cali-
que afirmaba el respeto y admiración
ad de maestro de cersmonias, hiso
que ha conquistado en la Capital de
mación del profesor Arai,
la República como orador florido y
quien con absoluto dominio de nues-
hombre de ilimitada cultura.
two idioma pronunció un largo e in-
Hicieron también uso de la palabra,
discurso que fué escuchado
el Lic. Enrique Bordes Mangel, el
sen interde por todos los presentes.
Ingeniero de Ciudad, Sr. Julio Dá-
vila y el Sr. So Yasuhara, terminan-
de la cultura y de la filosofía orien-
do el ágape en honor del Doctor Arai
a que llamó civilisación madre,
cerca de las once de la noche.
r después, como fuente de

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 3,
Despatch No. 790,
February 21, 1934.
SOURC..:
LA FRONTERA,
Tijuana, B.Cfa.,
Jan tar. 27, 1934.
BANQUETE OBSEQUIADO
AL DR. KINTA ARAI
F.1127
El eminente sociólogo japo_
nés, Dr. Kinta Arai, Catedrá.
tico de la Universidad Nacio_
nal Autónoma, ex_diplomáti.
co e infatigable propagandis.
ta a favor de la paz interna.
ciónal, fué agasajado la noche
del lunes último con un ban_
quete que le fué ofrecido por
el Sr. Agente Consular del
Japón en Baja California y
por la Colonia Japonesa de
esta ciudad, en uno de los e_
legantes salones del Hotel
Comercial.
A esta fiesta asistieron dis
tinguidas personalidades ofi.
ciales y representantes de la
Prensa, de la industria y del
comercio regionales.
El Dr. Arai al contestar al
ofrecimiento de este agasajo,
hecho por el Sr. Agente Con.
sular del Japón, hizo una e-
locuente exposición de sus
tendencias pacifistas y de su
afecto a México, país en que
ha residido por varios años.

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.90)
(COPT)
1766-0-76
CALIPEITIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
248
HEADQUARTERS PIRST CAVALRY DIVISIOW
at the Diyiiom Commmder.
foo nhoh f state
ATL
Part Miss, Tezes
F/ESP
rpbreary 18, 1954.
FIR
MAR 1 - 1934
40 rtmeht of state
Divisio
he Assistant Chief of Staff, -2.
FAR EASTERN AFAIRS
Teadquarters. Sighth Corpe Area.
FEB 24 1934
Port Sam Houstom, Fexas.
894.20212/353
Depertment of State
1. The follewing extract from a report, dated
Pebruary 11, 1934, and frem & reliable souroe, is repeated
fer your iaformatiem.
"It is reported that several Japemese craft
have been im the Galf of Lower Califermia recently:
these were supposedly fishing vessels, bat are
reperted to have deme no fishing: amether small
vessel, the "SEIs SImaNAs" was reported to have
been in the Gulf of Lower California reeemtly.
carrying e Japanese cres, bat whose busimess there
ceuld not be learned."
(sigm) A. T. LACKY
Majer, General Staff,
MAR 5-1934
A. C. of 3.. a-2.
FILED
(Ferwarded by lat Ind. from 0-2. 8th Corps Area. Feb. 17, 1934.)
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.96)
|a-co
DIVISION OF
LATIN AMERICAN AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY
F37/ND11
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
27 10JUN 15 1934
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECEIVED
Division of
RFCEIVED
JUN 15 1934
UN 15 1934
DFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
me
DIVISION OF
Sir:
Department of State
I am enclosing herewith a copy of a confidential
letter from the Commandant, Eleventh Naval District, regarding
the activities of the Japanese in Lower California, as being
894.20212/354
of possible interest to the Department of State.
Mandly
Respectfully,
June 37 A900
25/34
FILED
N AFFAIRB
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State,
Hanerrment of State.
Confidental Pile
Enclosure (1)
G
Confidential

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.97)
COPY
Commendant's Office
Eleventh Naval District
San Diego, Galifornia.
FIDENTIAL
ITIAL
8 June 1954.
From:
Commandant.
To:
Direeter of Naval Intelligence.
Subjeet:
Lower California, West Coast - Japanese Activities, etc.
1.The following information is a summary supplied by an informant
who is eonsidered very trustweorthy and observant. This information, just
received by the Distriet, 1s believed to be reliable up to 9 April l934, when
this partieular survey was completed. The information will be again checked
by an erpedition whieh is about to start (see Commandant's confidential letter
N11/0r-33 (A3-sa), dated 31 May 1954).
(a) Location of Japanese Aotivities:
Meme were found north of Blanoo Point.
No. of Japanese
Blanco Point
Fish Camp
about 5
Cone Pt. (in False Bay)
Santa Rosaka Bay
10
Lagoon Head (Manuela Lagoon)
15
Blaek Warrior Lagoon
n
20
Turtle May (showed nothing at all of a Cannery
5
Naval mature)
San Ignacio Lagoon
Survey Party
3
Baca de soledad
Fish Camp
6
Magdalena Bay
None
San Lueas Bay
Fishermen
15
(b) Japanese Boats:
Only two Tuna Boats were seen at a distance. Most of the
fishing craft observed were mall Halibut Boats, in very sood
condition and under Mexican registry. ▲ total of eight were seen
but no information could be obtained. The crews refused to talk.
The majority of the Japanese appeared to be of a very intelligent
type.
(c) Scammon Lagoon:
The center of activity on the coast of Lower California
appears to be located on this Lagoon. (Opposite Cedros Island).
Nothing of particular interest was seen at any of the other
activities. ▲ very good landing, showing evidence of considerable
activity, is located in a bight at the north side of the Lagoon,
about fifteen miles from its mouth. ▲ channel with six to ten
fathoms of water extends from a point bearing north from the
entrance and about three miles off shore, into the anchorage.
There is sufficient room for fifty destroyers and unlimited room
for small eraft and planes. On the shore were seen signs of
considerable cement work. There is a well constructed landing
CONPIDENTIAL
field at a mint two miles southwest from Ojo de Leebre and
ergido Peak.

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.97)
NEIDENTIAL
(d) In the survey along the west coast and as far as La Pas,
the attitude of the matives seems to be decidedly
pro-Japamese. The infomant posed as a Canadian and was
takem into their confidence many times. Apparently
Japamese propaganda is very strong. The most prevalent
idea seems to be that Mapan is going to help Mexico in
her development and aid her in regaining the states that
the U.S.A. "stole from her". The Army and Navy officers
with whom the informant became confidential expressed
the hope that Japan would deelare war on the United
States. Some of these were very bitter. Out of
fifty-eight officials of the Mexican Government whom the
informant contacted only six were not pro-Japanese.
Simod/ W. T. TARRANT.
-2-
IFIDENTIAL

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.91)
mh
B
June 19 1984
COMPIDENTIAL.
The Honorable
894.20212/354
The Seeretary of the Mavy.
sir:
I mekmewledge with thenks the receipt of the confi-
dential letter of Jwme 15. 1934, from the Acting Secre-
tary of the Havy emelosing a copy of a confidential letter
from the Commamdent, Eleventh Haval Distriet, in regară to
the metivities of Japanese in Lower California.
Yery truly yours,
For the Searetary of State:
William Phillips
Under Seoretary.
nor
e.g.e,
ME
Confidential File
FE:EdO
FE
SKH
Em
13
JUN 1E 1934
V1-18-34
the
nal.
ig.

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.91)
Jumo 27 1954.
400
SIRLCELL CONCIDENTIAL
To the Ameriem Chargé d'affaires ad interia,
Mexiee, D. F.
894.20212/354
The Seeretary of State encloses for the stristly
eenfidential information of the Chargé d'Affaires ad
interim, a opy of a report dated Jume 8, 1934, regarding
Japanese activities in Baja, Oalifornia, from the Cem-
mendant, Eleventh Naval District, San Diego, Califormia,
to the Direotor of Naval Intelligenee, which has beem
received by the Department from the Navy Department.
Enclosure.
Gopy of report
dated June 8,
from Navy Department.
894.20z3/354(0.7.)
947
A true eopy of
FE
m.m.H.
JUN 28 1934
√CB
RCJ

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.93)
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
ADDRESS REPLY TO COMMISSIONER OF
IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION
IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE
AND REFER TO FILE NUMBER
WASHINGTON
TER
55875/451
June 21, 1934
770212
DIVISION OF
GiL MEXICAN AFFAIRS.
AM REC0
TATE
3
June 28 1884
894.20212/355
JUN 28 1934
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
13
AJUN 22 1934
The Honorable,
Demrtment of state.
The Secretary of State.
Department of State
My dear Mr. Secretary:
I have the honor to transmit herewith for such action as
your Department might deem appropriate a report received from
the District Director of Immigration and Naturalization at El
Paso, Texas, concerning Japanese activities in Mexico.
Respectfully,
FILED
Edevor! Shoug!
C
EDWARD J. SHAUGHNESSY
2
Encl. 7529
Deputy Commissioner
193
RTMIN
F/G

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.92)
55875/451
June 21, 194
The Hono ble,
The Secret ry of t te.
My dear Mr. Secr ry:
I hov the honor to t n mit barewith for suen et s
y ur Dep rtment mignt deem appro r te  rport r ceived from
the District Director of Immigr vion nd N tur liz tion at 1
P so, Tex , concerning Jap ne :ivities in Mexico.
Reepectrully,
ED. J. SAUOHNESY
Encl. 7529
Deputy Commissioner

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.93)
4000/A-Tuseem
Office of the Chief Patrol mspeeter,
Tusson, Arizoma, Jume 8, 1054.
110
District Directer,
U. S. Imigratiem & Naturalization Service,
En Pase, Tems.
SUBJECT: ANTI-AMERICAN AGITATION ON TH WESP COAST
OF MELICO.
While in Nogales, Arizoma, om the 6th Instamt, the
fallewing faformatiom was roeceived by the writer from Custom In-
spestor Ralph Lame, U. S. Custon Service, Nogales, Arizona.
Inspector Lane stated to the writer that he and
Spesial Custom Agemt Rielly had returmed to Nogales, Arizoms, afew
days ago fron an official trip of investigation to the West Coast
of Maxieo; that throughout their trip they were imformed by frionds
it mas very evident the Japemese Gevermment had insngurated an ex-
temsive drive to ingratiate the Japanese people with the Mexicams,
and were agitating anti-kmerioan action by the Maxieans. The anti-
Ameriemm pregegaade is being spread by Japanese Comsule stationed
aleng the West Geast of lexice. During the pest few months said
Comsals heve been giving a series of dixmers, entertaimeeats and
barbeoues, and during suek entertaimments, to wkick caly the bet-
ter alass is ixvited, the Consuls spreed malisious prepegande ag-
ainst the United 3tates and advise the necessity of a uniom be-
tweem Mexico and Japem to comfront the "gringo".
Inspector Lame informed the writer his information
came from very roliable sourees, in fact, from persoms who have
attended the entertaimments given by the Japanese Comsuls and who
received their information first hand. These imfommmnts advieed
Inspester Lane the agitation has reached a very serious stage and
requested him to make tho same known to the Ameriean Govermment.
Earl Fallis
Chief Patrol Inspector

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.97)
June 28 19847
403
STRIOTLY CONFIDENTIAL
R. Henry Morweb, Esquire,
894.20212/355
American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim,
Mexico City.
Sir:
There is inolosed a copy of a report, dated June 8,
1954, from the office of the Chief Patrol Inspector,
Tuseon, Arizona,to the Department of Labor, in whioh it
is stated that, ascording to information coming from very
reliable sources, "anti-American propaganda is being
spread by Japanese Consuls stationed along the West Coast
of Mexioo".
The Department desires that energetic and thorough
inquiry be made of the circumstances surrounding the
"series of dinners, entertainments and barbecues" report-
ed to have been given by Japanese Consuls, with a view to
ascertaining whether any statements of the substance and
character described in the report under reference have
been made by Japemese Consuls in Mexico, and, if so, to
obtaining first-hand accounts of suoh statements.
It is desired in commection with this matter that
you avall yourself of the assistanoe of those Consuls, who,
in ter

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.90)
-2
your opimien, are best qualified te eseperate im
procuring the information desired; but in so doing you
should refrain from stating to them that the Department
has directed that inquiry be inssituted of the alleged
anti-American astivities of Japenese Consuls. Further,
your instrustions should caution the Consuls to conduet
their investigations with the utmost diseretion and
taot.
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of State:
William Phillips
Enclosure:
From Chief Patrol
Inspector, Tucson,
Jume 8, 1934.
894.20212/355
m.m.b.
Srat
FE
ME
SuR
JUN 27 1984
vs

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.83)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
19
Whisreporh is obvioual
based on the repoch o7the!
Chig, Border Pabrol, a copy
Twhich was re centty
See notation.
2π2

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.93)
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
(c0) JUN: 27 1934
CONFIDENTIAL
301s
DI VISIADOAKTERS PIRST CAVALRY DIVISION
25 193409
ATL-fle
0-2
550.05
Fort Bliss, Texas
Jume 13, 1934.
STATE
Japanese Informatien.
RECEITUP
The Assistant Chief of Staff, -2,
Beadquarters, Sth Corps Aree,
JUN 251934
Fort Sem Houston, Texas.
DIVISION OF
1m
1. Information from a reliable souree in Tuesom,
Arisema, under date of June 8th, l9s4, states that a very
reliable persom returning from am inspestion trip to the West
Coast of Mexieo tolahim that throughout his trip he was in-
894.20212/
formed by friemds that it was very evident the Japanese Gov-
ermment had inaugurated an extensive drive to ingratiate the
Japanese people with Mexicans, and were agitating anti-Ameriean
astion by the Mexieans. The anti-American propaganda is being
894.2710
spread by Japanese Consuls stationed along the West Coast of
Mexiee. During the past few months said Consuls have given a
series of dinners, entertsimments and barbeeues, and during
such entertainments, to which only the better class is invited,
the Cemsuls spread malicious propaganda against the United
States and advised the nesessity of a umion between Mexico and
Japan to confront the "gringo."
2. This person stated to our informant that the
above imformation had come from very relimble souroes, in fast,
from people who had attended the entertainments given by the
Japanese Consuls and had received their information first
hand. He further stated that the agitation had reached a very
serious stage and requested that the same be made known to the
Ameriean Government.
(signed) A. T. LACKY,
Major, General Staff,
A. C. of s., 2.
(Sent by lst Ind. thru C-2, Bth Corps Area, June 16, 1934.)
St

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.98)
RICAN
SECTION,
RY INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
WAR DEPARTMENT
Secretary of War
Assistant Secretary of War
Secretary, General Staff
G1
G-3
G-4
War Plans Division
Statistics Branch
Adjutant General's DepltIVISION ()F
Army Industrial ColiEXlCAN AF,
Army War College
Air Corps (Liaison OffiderEB 
Cavalry
Chemical Warfare Sarvice
Corps of Engineers
Command & General Staff. School
Field Artillery
Finance
Infantry
Inspector General's Dept.
Insular Affairs
Judge Advocate General's Dept.
Militia Bureau
Office of Naval Intelligence
Ordnence Dept.
Quartermaster General's Dept.
Signal Corps
Surgeon General's Office
State Dept.:
Eastern Europe
Western Europe
Near East
Latin America
Far East
Mexican Affairs
Commerce Dept.:
Foreign & Domestic Commerce
Aeronautics Trade Division
For your information and file
Note and return
Note and send to
CaR

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISION OF
CONFIDENTIAL
MEXICAN AFFAIRS,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JUN 25 1934
UN 28 1934
Bosarphaghs of State
FE
Conridential
6/26/34
as "high class men," passed through Nogales by airplane on
April 29. These men were:
June 28 1984
Minoru Tajii (retired) - 53 years old - lived
in Washington, D. C., from 1913 to 1928 - this man
had a large bundle or maps and photographs, subject
matter not learned.
894.20212
Yonosuki Shimimu (capitalist) - 47 years old.
894.20212/357
Kenkichi Takahashi (merohant) - 44 years old.
All came from, and are returning to, Tokyo, and have been in
Mexico sinee March and April. The mture of their business in
Mexico was not learned.
JUL121934
FILED
RECEIVED
川L 13 1934
DIVISION OF
CONFTDENTIAL

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.87)
404
June 28 1984
To the American Chazgé d'Affaires ad iaterin,
Mexieo, D.F., Mexieo.
894.20212/557
The Seeretary of state enoloses for the strietly
confidential information of the Chargé d'áffaires ad
imterim a sopy of an unofficial letter, dated May 2,
lese, prepared by G-2, sth Gorpe Area, which the Depart-
mont has received by infermal referense from the was
Department.
Neme of the names appearing in the enolosure herete
1s listed in the Japanese "Who's Who".
Emelosure:
Gopy ef letter dated
2.1934, f20m
Department.
92
ME HSB: ROM
FE
6/26
m.m
BaJ
JUN 28 1984
A true eepy of
tbsigned erig-
m
mmH
No

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.99)
RCOEIVEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF
August 1, 1934.
Mexico City's despatch No. 1582 of
July 7, 1934, reports the receipt of an
instruction directing that an investigation
be made of reports alleging the spread of
anti-American propaganda by Japanese consuls
in certain parts of Mexico, and procedes to
give a rather interesting account of
Japanese activities in Mexico.
I suggest that you read this despatch
for background purposes against the receipt
of a report which may be expected in due
course on the activities of Japanese
consular officers in that country.
The despatch is not susceptible of
intelligent comment from the point of view
of this Division; but in general one is
disposed to concur in the conclusions of
the Embassy at Mexico City, as set forth
in the last two paragraphs of the despatch,
that the probabilities are that Mexico
would side with us rather than with Japan
in the event of "grave consequences".
FE:HHD:DLY
894720212/358

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.91)
MPE
EMBASSY OF THE
FE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Mexico, July 7, 1934.
No. 1582
Subject: Japanese Anti-American Propaganda.
STATE
Confideatial.
COMMUNIOATION
ND RD
L.
ED
OF
PH
NOISIAO
0
nest reml.
REEIVE
EPENT
DIVISION OF
4
MEXICAN ATTAIRS
894.20212/358
8/15/34
Department or state.
COPY
For Distribution-Check
Cade
To fiell
Division of
IUSA
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JWL 18 1934
twashany
with letters
Department of State
10/11/34
The Honorable
fleting
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
I have the honor to acknowledge the Department's
strictly confidential instruction No. 403 of June 28,
1934, on the above subject, and to state that I have
initiated an inquiry regarding the spreading of anti-
American propaganda by Japanese Consuls stationed along
the West Coast of Mexico, the results of which I shall
report as early as possible.
In this regard, I have the honor to make certain ob-
servations regarding Japanese activities in Mexico. At
F/ESP
the present time Japanese agents and nationals are
busily employed in studying the topography and the com-
mercial resources of the country, in spreading Japanese
FILED
16 1934
propaganda, and in peaceful penetration.
This activity centers in the Japanese Legation at
Mexico

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Mexico City, with ramifications throughout the country.
Numerous Japanese, including the Military and the Naval
Attachés, travel a great deal in Mexico, maintaining
contacts beyond the capital.
The Department already is aware of Japanese recon-
naissance operations on the West Coast of Mexico. Recent-
ly, the Embassy has had two reports of the discovery of
well-organized Japanese surveying parties at work on the
West Coast - one somewhere between azatlán and Acapulco;
the second in the southern part of the State of Sinaloa,
north of Mazatlán. Both are reported to have disappeared
after their whereabouts was discovered.
INo reports have
reached the Embassy of any attempt by the exican Govern-
ment to apprehend the members of these parties, or to
curtail their activities. The Japanese Naval Attaché,
not long ago, was reported to have been discovered taking
photographs of the port of Manzanillo, when the latter
was being considered as a Mexican naval base.
The
Japanese inister was said to have offered to cause the
recall of the attaché, but the matter was dropped.
Undoubtedly, there is great Japanese activity in pros-
pecting for copper, metallic mercury, scrap iron, nitrates
and oil, with the apparent objective of acquiring consi-
derable quantities of these materials.
as regards oil,
a prime Japanese need, the £mbassy has it on good author-
ity that Japanese interests, believed to be supported by
the Japanese Government, are negotiating through a Japanese
business man in Lexico City for an oil concession in the
South-west of the State of Guerrero, the land involved
stretching to the coast, where there is a fair harbor.
The same Japanese agent also is reported to have attempt-
ed

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
ed to gain control of the production of a metallic-mer-
cury mine in Central Mexico.
As far as it has come to the Embassy's attention,
Japanese propaganda has followed commercial and self-
complacent lines. It is more or less obtrusive, remi-
niscent of pre-war German progapanda, and tends to in-
fluence favorably both the upper classes and the masses.
The former are given impressions of Japan's political
might, strength of race, industrial organization and
culture; the latter are appealed to by the argument
that Japan's primary interest is in supplying cheap,
useful goods to the masses while other competitor coun-
tries cater only to the favored classes by marketing ex-
pensive articles, primarily luxuries. This propaganda
is carried on by illustrated brochures, paid newspaper
articles, and propagandists (such as Dr. Kinta Arai
794120212 /3 461 3.19. 351 352
see despatch dated January 1i, 1934, from the Consulate
at Guaymas, and subsequent despatches from border Consul-
ates), the substance of which is echoed by Japanese resi-
dents in general.
The personal feature has an excellent
vehicle in the personality of the Japanese nationals who,
in general, from the  inister down, appear to have a
facility for establishing friendly relations with exicans.
I am not aware of the diffusion of direct anti-
American propaganda, but a great deal is spread by innu-
endo.
The thesis of this is that the possibility of war
between the United States and Japan does exist, that
Japan will be the victor in such a conflict and that a
Mexico friendly to Japan will reap therefrom a great re-
ward.
To date, however, and on excellent authority, I
have it that Japan expects Mexico to s tand with, or at
least

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
least to be sympathetic to, the United States in the
event of hostilities between the latter and Japan. It
is this fact which "the Prussian
of the East" now is
attempting to circumvent. In his activities towards this
end, he must be watched assiduously and checkmated.
工
do not believe that the Mexican Government will a ssume
an attitude inimical to the United States in the latter's
relations with Japan as long as General Calles and the
"Sonora Gang" are in control, but the day may dawn, in
a not distant future, when politicians less sympathetic
to the United States hold the reins of power, in conse-
quence of which a divergence of attitude is conceivable.
The peaceful penetration of Mexico by Japanese goes
on apace by their increasing legal and illegal entry.
During the years 1931, 1932, and the first half of 1933,
809 Japanese were legally admitted into exico; 436 derart-
ures were officially recorded; the net gain was 373 souls.
Of this number, 229 settled in the Northern District of
Baja California.
Frequent reports have come to me that
numerous Japanese constantly are entering the country
illegally, the majority going to Baja California and the
West Coast of the mainland. A near scandal in the Minis-
try of Gobernación was rumored because it was reported
that since the beginning of the current year, 6o0 Japanese,
said to be in the Japanese military service, had entered
Mexico from Guatemala bearing entry c ards, the report of
which and the proceeds of which had never reached the
superior Mexican authorities.
While an exact count of the number of Japanese now
residing in Mexico has not yet been made, I have it on
good authority that the official estimate of the number
is

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.95)
-5-
is 8,609 (not including those naturalized), of which
1,200 are resid ing in the Northern Dis trict of Baja
California.
Although the above circumstances in their aspect
to the United States cannot now be considered alarming,
they bear constant and c areful scrutiny and, in this
ttel
regard, I subscribe to the spirit of the Embassy's
711.1211/265c8
despatch No. 2205 of February 7, 1933
I do not be-
0 W ar
lieve that, irrespective of transit ory circumstances,
Mexico will adopt other than an attitude of friendship
vis-a-vis the United States. Trade and cultural rela-
1my
tions and propinquity alone tend to bind the two co un-
tries by ties oertainly closer than those which might
be drawn between Mexico and a remote country like Japan,
with which the former's commercial relations alone are
not comparable - even considering the existence of a
treaty between them which contains a most-favored-
nation clause - to those existing between her and the
United States.
Despite a certain amount of recurrent rumor that
a state of close rapprochement exists between Mexico and
Japan, I discount it in large measure and subscribe to
the expression of a prominent Mexican who is close to the
Mexican Government and to the Japanese Legation, and who
characterized such rapprochement as "more apparent than
real".
Respectfully yours,
R. Iy houd
Lelter from Enbasry at The
from e Harks sale Tha
+
R. Henry Norweb.
no copy o ths deopalch wa.
Chargé d'Affaires ad
frmbanded to te des
interim.
820
-8-27-34
WWS/kk/kot
In duplicate to the Department
in original only
dent

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.95)
October 13 1934
STRIOTLL_CONELDEHTIAL.
My dear Mr. Secretary!
I enclose, fer your strietly confidemtial infermatton.
copies of despatches No. 1583, and No. 1821, dated July 7.
894.20212/358
1934, and Ostober 2, 1934, respestively, frem the Amerisam
Embassy at Mexico City, entitled "Japanese Anti-Amerieam
Propaganda".
Copies of the despatches are alse being forwarded to
the War Department.
Sinserely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
Sumner Welles
Assistant Seeretary.
Enlesure:
From Mexico City,
dated July 7, 1934.
OCT 18.194
The Honorable
CB
Claude A. Swanson,
A true copy of
seeretary of the Kavy.
the signed or
MEIKBIHB
FE
10/11
H3
m.m.H.

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.98)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Mexioo, July 7, 1934.
o. 1582
Subjeot: Japanese Anti-Amerigan Propaganda.
Contidential.
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
I have the honor to aoknowledge the Department's
triotly confidential instruotion No. 403 of June 28,
1934, on the above subjeot, and to state that I have
initiated an inquiry regarding the spreading of ant-
American propaganda by Japanese Consuls stationed along
the West Ooast of Wexioo, the results of whioh I shall
report as early as possible.
In this rogard, I have the honor to make certain ob-
servations regarding Japanese aotivities in Mexioo. At
the present time Japanese agents and nationals are
busily employed in studying the topography and the oom-
meroial resouroes of the country, in spreading Japanese
propaganda, and in peaoeful penetration.
This activity centers in the Japanese Legation at
Mexico City, with ramifioations throughout the oountry.
Numerous Japanese, inoluding the Military and the Naval
Attachés, travel a great deal in Mexioo, maintaining
oontaots beyond the capital.
The Department already is aware of Japanese recon-
naissance operations on the West Coast of Mexioo. Recent-
ly, the Embassy has had two reports of the discovery of
well

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
well-organized Japanese surveying parties at work on the
West Coast - one somewhere between Mazatlan and Acapulco;
the second in the southern part of the State of Sinaloa,
north of Mazatlán. Both are reported to have disappeared
after their whereabouts was discovered. No reports have
reached the Embassy of any attempt by the Mexican Govern-
ment to apprehend the members of these parties, or to
curtail their activities. The Japanese Maval Attache,
not long ago, was reported to have been discovered taking
photographe of the port of Manzanillo, when the latter
was being considered as a Mexican naval base. The
Japanese Minister was said to have offered to cause the
recall of the Attaché, but the matter was dropped.
Undoubtedly, there is great Japanese activity in pros-
pecoting for copper, metallic mercury, sorap iron, nitrates
and oil, with the apparent objective of acquiring consid-
erable quantities of these materials. As regards oil,
a prime Japanese need, the Embassy has it on good author-
ity that Japanese interests, believed to be supported by
the Japanese Government, are negotiating through a Japanese
business man in Mexico City for an oil concession in the
South-west of the State of Guerrero, the land involved
stretching to the coast, where there is a fair harbor.
The same Japanese agent also is reported to have attempt-
ed to gain control of the production of a metallic-mer-
cury mine in Central Mexico.
As far as it has come to the Embassy's attention,
Japanese propaganda has followed commercial and self-
complacent lines. It is more or less obtrusive, remi-
nisoent

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
nisoent of pre-war German propaganda, and tends to in-
fluence favorably both the upper olasses and the msses.
The former are given impressions of Japan's politioal
might, strength of raoe, industrial organisation and
oulture; the latter are ap ealed to by the argument
that Japan's primary interest is in supplying cheap.
useful goods to the masses while other competitor ooun-
tries cater only to the favored classes by marketing ex-
pensive artioles, primarily luxuries. This propaganda
1s carried on by illustrated brochures, paid newspaper
articles, and propagandists (such as Dr. Kinta Ara1 -
see despatoh dated January 11, 1934, from the Consulate
at Guaymes, and subsequent despatches from border Consul-
ates), the substance of which is cohoed by Japanese resi-
dents in general. The personal feature has an exoellent
vehiole in the per sonality of the Japanese nationals who,
1n general, from the Minister down, appear to have a
facility for establishing friendly relations with Mexioans.
I em not aware of the diffusion of direot anti-
American propaganda, but a great deal is spread by innu-
ondo. The thesis of this is that the possibility of war
between the United States and Japan does exist, that
Japan will be the viotor in suoh a oonflict and that a
Mexioo friendly to Japan will reap therefrom a great re-
ward. To date, however, and on excellent authority, I
have it that Japan expeots Mexioo to stand with, or at
least to be sympathetio to, the United States in the
event of hostilities between the latter and Japan. It
is this fact whioh "the Prussian of the East" now is
attempting to ciroumvent. In his aotivities towards this
end,

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.98)
-4
end, he must be watched assiduously and oheckmated. I
do not believe that the Mexioan Government will assume
an attitude inimical to the United States in the latter's
relations with Japan as long as General Calles and the
"Sonora Gang" are in control, but the day may dawn, in
a not distant future, when politicians less sympathetio
to the United States hold the reins of power, in oonse-
quenoe of wh oh a divergenoe of attitude is conceivable.
The peaceful penetration of Mexico by Japanese goes
on apace by their increasing legal and illegal entry.
During the years 1931, 1932, and the f1rst half of 1933,
809 Japanese were legally admitted into Mexioo; 436 depart-
ures were offioially recorded; the net gain was 373 souls.
Of this number, 339 settled in the Northern Distriot of
Baja California. Frequent reports have come to me that
numerous Japanese oonstantly are entering the oountry
illegally, the majority going to Baja California and the
West Coaet of the mainland. A near soandal in the Minis-
try of Gobernagión was rumored because it was reported
that since the beginning of the ourrent year, 600 Japanese,
said to be in the Japanese military service, had entered
Mexico from Guatemala bearing entry cards, the report of
whioh and the proceeds of whioh had never reached the
superior Mexioan authorities.
While an exaot count of the number of Japanese now
residing in Mexioo has not yet been made, I have it on
good authority that the official estimate of the number
1s 8,B09 (not inoluding those naturalized), of whioh
1,a00 are residing in the Northern Distriot of Baja
California.
Although

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.98)
-
Although the above ciroumstanoes in their aspeet
to the United States oannot now be considered alarming,
they bear constant and careful sorutiny. I do not be-
lieve that, irrespeotive of transitory ciroumstanes,
Mexioo will adopt other than an attitude of friendahip
vis-a-vis the United States. Trade and oultural rela-
tions and propinquity alone tend to bind the two coun-
tries by ties certainly oloser than those whioh might
be drawn between Mexico and a remote country like Japan,
with whioh the former's commeroial relations alone are
not comparable - even considering the existenoe of a
treaty between them whioh oontains a most-favored-
nation olause - to those existing between her and the
United States.
Despite a certain amount of reourrent rumor that
a state of olose rapproohement exists between Mexico and
Japan, I disoount it in large measure and subsoribe to
the expression of a prominent Mexican who is olose to the
Mexioan Government and to the Japanese Legation, and who
characterized suoh rapproohement as "more apparent than
real".
Respeotfully yours,
R. HFNRY NORWEB
Chargé d'Affaires ad
interim.

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.90)
October 13 1934
TATLY_CONZIDITIAL
My esar Mr. Seeretary!
I emlose, for your strietly confidential imfesmation
eepies of dempatehes No. lsss and No. lasl, dated July 7,
894.20212/358
195e, and Osteber 2, l954, respectively, frem the Ameriem
Embaesy at Mexico Oity, entitled "Japanese Anti-Amerieam
Prepaganda".
Goples of the despatohes are also being forwarded to
the Mavy Department.
Simmerely yours,
For the Beeretary of State:
Sumner Welles
Assistant Seeretary.
Enclesure!
Frem Mexieo Gity,
dated July 7, l934.
The Henerable
Geerge H. Dern,
Geeretary of War.
he signed origi-
MEISOBIRB
10/11
nal.
m.m.N.

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.97)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Mexioo, July 7, 1934.
No. 1583
Subjeot: Jananese Anti-American Propaganda.
centidential.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
I have the honor to aoknowledge the Department's
striotly confidential inetruotion No. 403 of Jume 28,
1934, on the above subjeot, and to etate that I have
initiated an inquiry regarding the spreading of ani-
American propagenda by Japanese Consuls stationed along
the West Coast of kexioo, the results of which I shall
report as early as poasible.
In this regard, I have the honor to make certain ob-
servations regerding Japanese aotivities in Mexioo. At
the present time Japanese agents and natinals are
busily employed in studying the topography and the com-
meroial resources of the country, in epreading Japanese
propegande, and in peaceful penetretion.
This activity centers in the Japanese Legation at
Mexioo City, with ramifioetions throughout the country.
Numerous Japanese, inoluding the Military and the Naval
Attachés, travel a great deal in Mexico, maintaining
oontaots beyond the oapital.
The Department Akready 1s aware of Japanese recon-
naissance operations on the West Ooast of Mexioo. Recent-
ly, the Embasey has had two reports of the discovery of
woll

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.97)
一2
well-organized Japenese surveying parties at work on the
*est Coast - one somewhere between Mazatlán end Acapuloo;
the second in the southern part of the State of Sinaloa,
north of Mazatlán. Both ere reported to have disappeared
after their whereabouts, wes discovered. No reports have
reaohed the Embassy of any attempt by the Mexioan Govern-
ment to apprehend the membere of these parties, or to
ourtail their aotivities. The Japenese Naval Atteohé,
not long ago, was reported to have been disoovered taking
- photographe of the port of Menzanillo, when the latter
wes being considered at e Mexicen naval base. The
Japenese Minister wes seid to have offered to cause the
recall of the Attaché, but the matter was dropped.
Undoubtedly, there is grert Japanese activity in proa-
pecting for copper, metallic meroury, sorap iron, nitrates
and oil, with the auparent objeotive of aoouiring conei-
der ble quantities of these materials. Ae regerds oil,
a prime Japenese need, the Embessy has it on good author-
1ty that Jepanese intereste, be ieved to be supported by
the Japenese covernment, are negotiating through e Japanese
business men in Mexico ity for an oil concessi n in the
South weet of the State of Guerrero, the land involy ed
stretohing to the coast, where there is a fair harbor.
The eame Japanese agent also is reported to have attempt
od to gein control of the oroduction of a wetallio-mer-
oury mine in Central Mexico.
As fer as it has come to the Embassy's attention,
Japenese propagande has followed commeroial and self-
complecent lines. It is mo:e or less obtrusive, remi-
n1soont

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.97)
-3
nisoent of pre-war German propaganda, and tends to in-
fluenoe favorably both the upper olasses and the masses.
The former are given impressions of Japan's political
might, strength of race, industrial orgenizati n and
oulture; the latter are a esled to by the argument
that Japan's primary interest is in supplying oheap,
useful goods to the masses while other oompetitor ooun-
tries cater only to the favored classes by merketing ex-
pensive articles, primsrily luxurics. This propagande
1s oarried on by illustrated brochures, paid newepaper
articles, and propagandiste (such es Dr. Kinta Arai -
see despatch dated Januery 11, 1934, from the Consulate
at Guaymes, and subsequent despatches from border Consul-
ates), the substence of which is cohoed by Japanese resi-
dents in general. The personal feature has an exoellent
vehiole in the pe sonality of the Japanese nationels who,
in general, from the Winister down, appear to have a
facility for establishing friendly relations with Mexicans.
I em not aware of the diffusi n of direot anti-
American propaganda, but a grea: deal is spread by innu-
endo. The thesis of this is thet the possibility of war
between the United States and Japen does exist, that
Japan will be the victor in suoh a confliot and that a
Mexico friendly to Japan will reap therefron a great re-
ward. To date, however, and on excellent authority, I
have it that Japan expects Mexico to stand with, or at
least to be sympathetic to, the United States in the
event of hostilities between the latter and Japan. It
1s this fact which "the Prussian of the East" now 1s
attempting to ciroumvent. In his sctivities towards this
end.

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.97)
-4
end, he must be watohed assiduously end checkmated. I
do not believe that the Mexican Covernment will assume
an attitude inimical to the United States in the latter's
relations with Japen es long as General Calles and the
"Sonora Gang" are in ontrol, but the day mey dawn, in
a not distant future, vhen politioiane less sympathetio
to the United states hold the reins of power, in conse-
quence of wh. oh a divergence of attitude 1s conceivable.
The peaceful penetration of Mexico by Japanese goes
on apace by their increasing legal and illegal entry.
During the years 1931, 1932, and the f1rst half of 1933,
809 Jepanese were legally admitted into Mexico; 436 depart-
ures were offic1elly recorded; the net gain was 373 souls.
Of this mumber, 339 settled in the Northern Distriot of
Baja California. Frequent reports have come to me that
numerous Japenese constantly are enterin the Country
1llegally, the majority going to Bajs California end the
est Coeet of the mainland. A near soandal in the Minis-
try of Gokermagión wes rumored because it was reported
that since the beginning of the ourrent yeer, B00 Japanese,
seid to be in the Japanese military service, hed entered
Mexico from Guatemala bearing entry oards, the report of
whioh and the proceeds of wh: ah hed never reached the
superior Mexioan authorities.
While an exaot count of the number of Japanese now
residing in Mexioo has not yet been made, I have it on
good authority that the officiel estimate of the number
1s 8,609 (not inoluding those nsturalised), of whioh
1.200 are residing in the Northern Distriot of Baja
California.
Although

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.97)
-5
Although the above ciroumstances in their aspeet
to the United States cannot now be considered alarming.
they bear constant and careful sorutiny. I do net be-
lieve that, irrespeotive of transitory ciroumstammes,
Mexieo will adopt other than an attitude of friendahip
vie-a-vis the United States. Trade and oultural rele-
tions and prepinquity alone tend to bind the two coun-
tries by ties certainly closer than those which might
be drawn between Mexieo and a remote country like Japan,
with whioh the former's ommeroial relations alone are
not comparable - even considering the existence of a
treaty between them whioh contains a most-favored-
nation olause - to those existing between her and the
United States.
Despite a certain amount of recurrent rumor that
a state of olose rapproohement exists between Mexioo and
Japan, I disoount it in large measure and subsoribe to
the expression of a prominent Mexican who 1s olose to the
Mex1oan Government and to the Japanese Legation, and who
charaoterized suoh rapproohement as "more apparent than
real".
Respeotfully yours,
R. NRY NORWEB
Chargé d'Affaires ad
interim.

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.92)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVJSION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
August 17, 1934.
ME
FE is of the opinion that it would
be desirable to await the arrival of the
report which Mexico City has been directed
to make on the activities of Japanese
consular officers in Mexico before giving
consideration to the question whether
copies of its despatch No. 1582 of
July 7, 1934, should be furnished to
the Navy and War Departments.
wi wit
FEEHDDLY
Hald in M& uftil further
reput anines, safs mu Recd.

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.84)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF MEXICAN AFFAIRS
Burele
lul
shr

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.83)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
VISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
eN1
MMA

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.73)
the to go to
Wa. + N ME
aant
it
-2re0.

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.92)
ME
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Mexico, Ootober 2, 1934.
STRICT IY C ONF IDENTIAL
1821
SUBJECT: Japanese Anti-American Propaganda
894.20212
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
QC1 9 - 1934
0D
128
DIVILION OF
Department of State
0b 51934
894.20212/359
2
44 AMEXICAN ATTA
2
2.
wnthlettu
1011/34/1h
Listr bution-Check
Yes
No
10
For
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
894.20212
In continuation of despatch number 1582 of July
7, 1934, I have the honor to state that the Embassy,
availing itself also of the assistance of the Consuls
at Mexicali, Ensenada, Guaymas, and Mazatlán, has
OCT 2 5 1934
FILED
made as thorough an investigation as possible con-
cerning extensive entertainment of prominent Mexicans
and the spreading of anti-American pr opaganda by Ja-
panese Consuls stationed along the West Coast of Me-
xico. As a result thereof, the Embassy has found no
evidence to corroborate this rumored Japanese activi-
ty and, for the present, has nothing to add to the
information contained in the despatoh above mentioned.
Respectfully yours,
Josevembanil
Embassy file 820 J
WWS:KCT
Yosephus Daniels.
In duplicate to the
Department of State
JM

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.94)
DIVISION OF
MEXICAN AFFAIRS
ADDRESS RIPLY TO
THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY
life 1934
AND REFER TO INITIALS
AND No.
(SC)A8-2/EF37
4
NAVY.DEPARTMENT
Debattmen aoo.ute.
DEPARTMENT
WASHINGTON
1934 0CT 20 AM 10 08
Pivisien of
OCT 1 9 1934
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Contiden
001 22 1934
IV
COMMUONS
Department of State
AND RECORDS
Sir:
Acknowledgment is made of State Department confidential
894.20212/360
lotter of 13 October, file ME 894.20212/358, together with its
inclosures, copies of letters of 7 July and 2 Ootober, respectively,
from the American Embassy at Mexico City, entitled "Japanese Anti-
American Propaganda".
I appreciate the courtesy of your department in keeping
this department informed with respect to the subject.
Respectfully,
FILED
The Honorable,
1
231934
The Secretary of State.
4
F/G

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.93)
A1
Divisier of
FE
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
WAR DEPARTMENT
901 25 1934
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF STAFF
$=P
1A
smant of State
In reply refer to
G-2/1766-0-78
7
DIV
PNOF
COMMUNICAONS
AND RECORDS
WEYICAN AFTAIRS
The Honorable,
894.20212/361
The Secretary of State.
ret
Dear Mr. Secretary:
The Secretary of War requests me to acknowledge
the receipt of your confidential letter of October 13, l934
(ME 894.20212/358), transmitting copies of despatches
No. 1582 and No. 1821, from the American Embassy, at
Mexico City, and to express his appreciation of the informa-
tion contained therein concerning "Japanese Anti-American
Propaganda."
Sincerely yours,
Gengral,
Chief of Staff.
OCT 2 6 1934
FILED

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.91)
E
DIVISION OF
FE
MEXICAN AFFAIRS
1039
RECE VDEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY
Department 8
1934 OCT 23 PM 2 34
WASHINGTON
(SC)48-2/EF37
Confidential
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
OCT 2 3 1934
HISTON OF
COMMUNICITIONS
AND ROORDS
REOEIVED
FAR EASTEN AFFAIRS
OCT 23 1934
001 25 1934
$4
Accide ar for 
Sir:
Acknowledgment is hereby made of
receipt of your letter No. ME 894.20212/358
894.20212/362
dated October 13, 1934, together with en-
elosures noted therein.
Respectfully,
1o. 2 leseurcd
 L. Hoor t
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State.
OCT 2 6 1934
FILED

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.98)
363
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
812.00-Lower California/184
466
894.20212/363
SEE
FOR
FROM Gue ymas
Ray
) DATED
Nov. 28, 1934
TO
NAME
1127
REGARDING: Politioal and other information regarding the Territorio
Sur de la Baja Colifornia.
Re ort on the politicel, religious and Jopanese situation
during  recent trip through the territory.
jah

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.97)
INTELLI GENCE DIVI SION
WAR DEPARTMENT
2
Secretary of War
Assistant Secretary of War
Secretary, General Staff
0-1
03
G-4
War Plans Division
Statistics Branch
Budget & Legislative Pl. Br.
Adjutant General's Ropt.
Army Industrial Coliege
Army War College
Air Corps (Liaison Officer)
Cavalry
Chemical Warfare Service
Coast Artilley Corps
Corps of Engircers
Command & General Staff School
Field Artillery
Finance
Infantry
Inspector General's Dept.
Insular Affairs
Judge Advocate General's Dept.
Militia Bureau
Office of Navel Intelligence
Ordnance Dept.
Quartermaster General's Dept.
Signal Corps.
Surgeon General's Office
State Dept.:
Eastern Europe
Wostern urope
Near Bst
Le in America
Far East
Mexican Affairs
Ccmmercc D pt.:
Foreigu & Demertic Commerce
Aerorautics Trade Division
For your if mation and file
Note ant retn
Note and send to

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.91)
DEPARTMENT
OF
THE CHIEF
OF
STAFF
WASHINGTON
Cuata. The
outhe, in -2.
Matiment offoch
herim agtees in
outline with
foch sefarted
3.8-9.2

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.96)
Translated in
M.I.D.
DIVISION OF
JAN 11935
MEXICAN AFFA RS
Tomber 19, 1934.
Department of State
894.20212
AIMMNT F ATE
Seeretary of War
AN 0 1935
Washington, D. C.
AMER  CAFTIGS
Dear Sir:
My calling of travelling salemman in the states of the Pacifie coast,
in this country, has enabled me to observe at close hand the aetivities of
the large Japanese colony established in these states and from the observa-
89
tions I have arrived at the conclusion that nearly all the Japanese settled
in this part of Mexico are using their commereial activities, etc., as a
4
mere cover for their actual purpose, which, in my opinion (and alse the
opiniom of many other persons), is none other than militery espionage di-
2
reeted against the United States and Mexioo. In this way they shcw themselves
0
ungrateful for the hospitality they are offered.
2
I am a Merican and a lover of my country and I understand that the
2
destiny of my country is bound up with that of the United States, both because
of the nearness of the two countries to each other and because of the common 
danger that threatens them in case Japan should be victorious (a remote possi-
bility) in a war against you. In this unfortunate case my country, without a 4
doubt, would be colonized by Japanese who would then proseed to practiee their
despotio and barbarous acts, so well shown in the ease of China. For thome
reasons I feel that as a Mexican I should be neglesting my duty if I did not
call your attention to the activity of the Japanese on the west coast of Mexieo.
In case of an armed confliet (a remote possibility but not improbable) these
activities would give rise to serious and dangerous conflicts both for you and
for us.
Two years ago when the Manchuria trouble reached its culminating point
F
and everybody feared a general conflict, many Japanese left for Japan in
answer to the call of their goverment. These were, without a doubt, soldiers
of the active army. I have in mind the case of a bakery laborer, apparently
G
an obseure and insignificant man, who turned out be nothing less than a mili-
tary engineer and who had come to Mexico to engage in this humble occupation,
so out of harmony with his calling and edueation. Without a doubt he had a
special commission from his goverment and it is logical to suppose that he
came for no other purpose than to act as a spy, and we find many cases similar
to this ome. There are many Japanese business houses that are failures finan-
cially and that do business at a loss and in spite or the fact that they are
mall firms it is impossible to explain how they can contimue to do busines
for so long a time unless they are finaneed by a third party, which it is to be
supposed would be their own government.
1935
-1-

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.97)
Last year a Japamese lesturer made a trip throughout the states of
the Pasifie eeast, siving free leetures in all the towns and showins seme
mavée fikes, bat the main theme of his lestares was that Japen was the
greet friend ef Mexiee and that its fleet and army were ready to defend it
in ease of danger, a statement whieh, mfortunately, is taksn sericusly by
a lasge part or the pepulation. of course the people who take this atti-
tade are me qbservers of events and kmow nothing of histery. When he
shewed the Tilms illustrating the maneuvers of the Japanese army and navy
he always stated that they were at the servise of Mexico and in ease of
meed fer wpiversal justiee. On these oesasions he was applauded by about
half of the audiesse.
We frequemtly have fishing expeditions frem Japan, with erews exelusively
Japamese. These expeditions are ostensibly for fishing purposes but what
they really do is make drawings of our coast and make soundings, semething
whieh the Govermment of Mexiso, wafortumately, is unable to prevent due to
the fact that it does not have the material means (ships, ete.) to wateh its
sheres as it should.
What I wish to tell yeu in this respeot is that I have been told by a
perses whem I suppose to be well informed that on an unsettled part of the
shere a Japamese boat seeretly unloaded diamounted aviation material and
they have, without a doubt, hidden this material in some of the uninhabited
seetiems, so frequently met with along our coast, with a view to using it in
ease of a future eemfliet. In case of a war they could mount this material
and mam it with forees which could do great damage to some of the eities of
both countries, even though the aviators, in attempting this, would only be
committing suicide.
I wish to suggest that you take measures to counteract this activity and
at the same time undertake, taetfully and intelligently, to show the Mexiean
people the delusion nder which they are laboring. By this I meam the erreneous
belief that Japan can help them. In addition to this you should explain to
the Maxican people the rapaoity of Japan and ber barbarous acts and make them
see that their destiny, for tarious reasons, is closely bound up with yours
and that a disaster for the one would mean a disaster for both.
r I can give you any information that would be of use along this line,
you may write, using an envelope without heading and addressing your letter
to apartado lio, Mazatlan, Sin., Mexico, and recamending the due reserve.
Yours truly,
Elias Garcia Cuadra
P. S. Please consider this letter as strictly confidential.
(Received A.G.0. Dec. 28, 1934)
-8-

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 15, 1935.
J10
SKH:
You will note from the
most recent despatch from
Guaymas (see last enclosure
in letter to Navy) reports
that suspicious stocks of
materials are probably the
property of the Mexican
Government, to be used in the
construction of a Mexican
naval base. It seems
advisable to give Navy all
the information we have and
to leave it to Navy to decide
whether it should conduct
an investigation.

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.93)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 25, 1935.
ME:
Mr
Reed.
We are inclined to agree with you
that the information contained in the
attached despatch No. 87 from Guaymas
does not warrant the expense of making
the investigation suggested by the Consul.
Have M.I.D. or O.N.I. funds or
facilities for making the investigation?
We believe that it would be advisable to
make available to those offices in strict
confidence pertinent excerpts from (rather
than copies of) this series of despatches.
I duit unnw.
liccd
un hooma~
ED/REK
h1)48-65

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.79)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Mas.1"
M.. Hombeale sploke
Paloston coaind he thgh
The Thiy co
to the cas.
mm.t

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.80)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF MEXICAN AFFAIRS
Feb 19-
FE.
A the basis y the informatini
freanted in ttu; dubatele I do
wot feie that the exbeure and
abeice from offie oduty entailed
by the susgistid vrsil of a comsular
ffen fim Suayme to Wrag.
dalma Bay wmll hu wrar
annted . Kowerer I yue thunk
otherurse, I shatl tu glad to
mamirder the matter.
to you thuik it comed le
dananle to sind curt  itu
denfatal -Lo M. I. D. aner O-N.I?
EAR

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.96)
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Guaymas, Mexico, February 11, 1935.
STRICLY CONFIDENTIAL
LA
SUBJEET: Japanese Activities in the Gulf of Califom 1a
and on the West Coast of Mexico.
5
894.20212
Maron 20 1930
note
712.628
THE HONORABLE
thang
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
31.5
WASHINGTON
CC
Hr:
n
I,have the hongr to refer to my confidential
61-.9417/5
D
despatch No. 83 of/February 4, 1935, relative to
"Japanese Commercial Activities in the Guaymas Cons-
ular District," and to report that several recent
incidents indicate that the Japanese are planning to
increase their activities on the west coast of Mexico
along commercial and other lines.
In, this connection,
MAR 25 1935
FILED
please see also my despatches Nos. 48/and 65
of Sep-
tember 10, and November 24, 1934, respectively, and my
telegram of September 10, 3 p.m., 1934.
1:26
As mentioned in my despatch No. 81 of Jandary 31,
1935, entitled "Political Report for January, 1935,"
it has been alleged that the Japanese recently landed
cement, arms, and amnnunition in the Bay of Magaalena,
on the west coast of Baja California, presumably for the
purpose of erecting fortifications there.
The consulate
was inclined te diso unt the report inasmuch as the
F
Mexican Government is understood to be establishing a
nava!

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
base in Magdalena Bay.
However, it is now reported
hat a considerable quantity of sacks of cement, cannon and
ammunition was discovered in & cave near the shore of
Magdalena Bay. It is alleged t at the quantity was so
great that it could have heen rought there only by a ship
of considerable size, or at least if a small ship trans-
ported the cament, cannon, and ammunition, it must have
made several trips.
It is unuerstood that a number of vessels fishing out
of Los Angeles, Cali cimia, some of wiich are sand to be
the SAY LUUAS, WESPERN ETERPRISE, and CIPAGO, are manned
entirely by Japanese crews und invariably stop in Magdalena
Bay for the ostersi le pose of catehing bait to be used
for fishing in waters frutaer to the south.
The Bay of
Magdalena is immense, the listance fron the entrance of the
Bay to me opposite side eing  i ately 15 miles and
the length of the Pay etween te orthern und soithern
ends being about 50 liles.
Irasluch us the region is
sparsely Prptlated and th ere re ver. few patrol boats,
it is easy  see tt small vessels might egage in illegal
activities without being discevered.
It seems surprising teat the Japanese, if it is trie
that they landed such material in Magdalena Bay, would
choose a spot where a Mexican naval base is non being
established in preparation for ships to be obtained for the
Mexican Navy.
However, the reports on ti e subject are so
consistent that they cannot be ignored.
It is difficult
to obtain information from the district around Magdalena
Bay for the reason that there is no regular means of com-
munication and it is seldom that anyone makes the trip
between Guaymas and the west coast of Baja California.
It seems that the only way in which dependable information
coula

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
uld be obtained would be for an officer of this consulate
to make a trip to Magdalena Bay for the purpose of investiga-
ting the report.
Even with the recent small increase in
travel allotment granted by the Department, the allotment
of this consulate has been exhausted and I have spent some
of my personal funds for the p rpose of official travel
within this district.
If the Department feels that an investigation of the
matter on sne spot would ve useful, either Vice Consul Yepis
or I could make the trip to Magdalena Bay.
The trip would
be long and tiresome, and furtiermore there is a complete
lack of suitable accommouations in that region. It would be
necessary to go to Santa Rosalia and La Paz, and thence
overland to Magdalena Bay.
The cost oi the trip vould not
be less than $150.00 and I co not fecl that I can afford to
pay it out of my personal fuds.
Nor am I anxious to make
the trip.
However, it seems important that the truth be
known about the situation in Magdalena Bay a. if the
Department wishes the investigation made and will authorize
the necessary expenditure, an officer of this consulate will
leave for Baja California by the first available boat.
It seems difficult to eli eve that the Japanese could
hope to construct fortifications in Magdalena Bay without
beingdiscovered.
There is also a possibility that the
arms and ammunition said to ave been discovered in
Magdalena Bay may have oeen part of a revolutionary plot
and taat the Mexican Government, wishing to give the
impression tnat there was no danger of trouble, endeavored
to throw the blame on some forbign country.
In spite of
the consulate's skepticism regarding the possibility that
the Japanese are planning to erect fortifications in
Magdalena Bay, it is realized that the matter is one in
which

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
Hoh the United States would undoubtedly be in terested
and posibly the Department might desire to have a discreet
and careful investigation made.
With particular refurence to my despatch No. 48 of
Sep tember 10, 1934, and my telegran of the same date, the
consulate has definite information that the SS BANSHUMARU
#88 left Shimonoseki, Japan, on January 3, 1935, bound for
Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico, via Yokohame.
The vessel carried
a crew of 43 men, includirg the master.
Apparently half
the men are listed as fishermen and the other half as
seamen and officers of the ship.
The BANSHUMARU belongs
to the firm of Hayashikane Shoten, of Shimonoseki, Japan,
which is the same conc ern as t at mentioned in my comruni-
cations of September 10, 1934.
The local American manager
of Pan-Aporican Fisheries. Ltd., tells ne that he has no
Instructions to deliver s rimp to the Japarese boat and that
his company expects to continue shipping shrimp to the
Uni ted States.
According to information furnished by him,
the BANSHUMARU is a vessel oi about 1,ooo tons, equipped for
transporting around 500 tons of fish.
My informant expressed
the opinion that the vessel went to Yokohama from Shimonseki
but did not leave Japan for Mexico, since the American and
Japanese companies could not agree on the final conditions
of the sale of the shrimp.
A local official furnished me information relative to the
vessel's expected arrival and mentioned that in view of the
presence in Guaymas recently of a Japanese traveling salesman
it would be interesting to note whether the vessel brought
any cargo from Japan to Mexioo.
He remarked that the
Japanese might possibly find it profitable to import merchandise
from Japan and take shrimp on the return voyage.
It is understood
that

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.98)
5-
transportation of merchandise, but inasmuch as the Japanese
vessel in question is considerably larger than the average
fishing vessel, such & possibility coes not appear to be
out of the question.
Another theory advanced in Guaymas,
where there is apparently considerable discussion among
the Mexican residents regarding Japanese activities, is that
the BANSHUMARU is now overdue at this port and hat it may
have stopped at Magdalena Bay to unload iurther material
for fortifications there.
As previously reported, three old Mexican vessels,
the BOLIVAR, WASTINGTON, and MOSTEZULa, are being dis-
mantled in the port of Guaymas for the stated purpose of
shipping the metal to Japan.
The local press reports
that the represe tative of the Japanese concern purchasing
the metal has requested permission from the Mexican Govern-
ment to bring twelve old ships bought in tie United States
to Guymas to be dismentled here.
The metal obtained
would then be shipped to Japan along with that taken from
the Mexican vessels, and several hundred tons of scrap iron
said to have been purchased from the Southern Pacific Railwey
of Mexico.
On January 26, 1935, Mr. Tada iro Tamak1, who stated
that he was a Japanese subject living in the United States
and employed by the Fairbanks-Morse Company as a salesman
for engines and machinery, applied at this consulate for
assistance in obtaining permission to remain outside the
United States for an additional period of six months. He
had left the Uni ted States via Nogales on July 30, 1934.
He was informed that the consulate had no authority to extend
the period during which he was allowed to remain in Mexico
and

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
return to the United States without a visa.
Mr. Tamaki
tated that he was going to Nogales, enter the United States,
and thon return to Mexico for another period of approximetely
six months.
According to information furnished this consulate, Mr.
Tamaki goes to Baja California every year for about six months
duri the winter to engege in the growing of tomatoes. He
is quoted as having stated that the Japanese Government
wanted all Japanese in Baja California and southern Sonora
to engage in the growing of cotton instead of tomatoes as
Japan needed the cotton.
Tamaki is said to have made a
trip to Ciudad Obregón, the center of the Yaqui River Valley
agricultural region vhere a number of Japanese farmers live.
He is quoted as having said that he had advised the Japanese
in the Yaqui Valley to plant cotton instead of winter vege-
tables.
He returned to Baja California via Guaymas on
February 6, 1935.
The interest of the Japanese in cotton
might be explained by a desire to provide cargo for vessels
bringing merchandise from Japan to Mexico.
The importation
of Japanese goods into Mexico would naturally be more profitable
if the vessls transporting the merchandise could be furni hed
with cargo for the return trip to Japan.
A local official who furnished me part of the information
given above expressed the view that the Japanese were making
a determined effort to estab ish themselves on the west coast
of Mexioo, that they were particularly interested in the Gulf
of California, and that if they came here for the ostensible
purpose of fishing they were certain to engage in activities
which would be subversive to the interests of both Mexioo
and the Uni ted States.
This consulate views with concern the recent inorease of
activities

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.96)
-7-
ities on the part of the Japanese in this istrict,
realizes that it may be difficult for the Government
of the Uni ted States to take any definite stand on the
matter. Nevertheless, it secns that it might be easier to
take certain steps now than later, such as informel discussions
with the Mexican Government Wi th a view to inducing the latter
to adopt a policy of excluding the Japanese as much as
possible from the west coast of Mexico and refusing to grant
fishing and other concessions.
Such a course might possibly
avoid serious trouble in the future for both the Uni ted
States and Mexico.
Respectfully yours,
SyRay
Guy. Ray,
American Vice Comsul.
In quintuplicate to the Departrent;
Copy to the Embassy;
Copy to the Consulate General.
File 800/834.5
GWR-9
11

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.94)
AfIC
11
FE
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Guaymas, Mex1co, March 7. 1935.
mm./s
CONFIDENT IAL.
l
SUBJECT: Japanese Aotivities.
N
. 13
894.20212/366
THE HONORABLE
en
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
WASHINGTON
SIR:
I have the honor to refer to my strictly confidential
despatoh No. 87, of February 11, 1935, relative to Japanese
Aotivities in the Gulf of California and on the West Coast
of Mexioo, and to uote below a letter received from an
American citizen living on the west coast of Baja Cali-
fornia in reply to an inquiry made by this consulate
regarding the report that a foreign power had landed
cement, cannon, and ammunition in Magdalena Bay:
Your letter of January 2lst received.
The
Mexican Government is starting to build at
Magdalena Bay a naval base for warships, whioh
they are building in Spain. At the present
time, they are moving cement and other materials
F/FG
to Magdalena.
This information I have known
for some time and have oheoked it with General
Juan Dominguez, the Governor, not letting him
know you were making these inquiries.
Any further information, I will be glad
to get for you.
The

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
The above quoted letter, dated March 3rd, is from
a native-born American citizen who has been known to
this consulate for some time and who is believed to be
a reliable source of information.
In my despatch under reference above, I remarked
on page 2: "It seems surprising that the Japanese, if
it is true that they landed such material in Magdalena
Bay, would choose a spot where a Mexican naval base is
now being established in preparation for ships to be
obtained for the Mexican Navy."
In view of that
and the letter quoted above, it seems practically
certain that no foreign power has recently landed
cement, cannon, and ammunition at Megdalena Bay, and
that the materials which caused the reports were in
reality put there by the Mexican Government. However,
for a time the rumors were so consistent the consulate
felt they should be reported.
Respectfully yours,
JmmRan
Guy W. Ray,
American Vace Consul.
In quintuplioate to the Dep artment;
Copy to the Embassy through the Consulate General;
Copy to the Consulate General.
F11e 800/834.5
4
JM
GWR-9

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.93)
March 20 1955.
GONFIDENTIAL.
The Sesretary of State presents his cemplimente to
the Menorable the Seeretary of the Navy and with referemes
894.2021
te a recent cenversation between the Chief of the Divisiem
of Far Eastern Affairs of this Department, and Gaptain
William D. Puleston, Office of Naval Operations, Mavy
Department, regarding reperted activities of Japamese on
12/36
the west coast of Mexieo, and partioularly in Magdalems
96
Bay, emloses as a matter of further information, copies
of despatches Nos. 87, 88, and 97, from the Ameriean Vieg
Genmul at Guaymas, Bonora, Mexico, dated respeetively,
Fobruary 11, February 14, and Mareh 7, 1935.
Attention is especially invited to the last of these
despatahes quoting an Ameriean eitisen as having reported
that the supplies of coment and other materials said to
have been seen in Magdalena Bay are to be used by the Mexiean
Government in the construction of a naval base for the use
E
of vessele recently purehased by that Government in Spain.
A true copy of
Enelesurest
the signed rig
Despetehes as stated above.
2
nal
evre
FE
3/25

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 26, 1935.
The Consul at Guaymas transmits an
article appearing in a local paper relative
to Japanese activities along the west coast
of Mexico. Japan is pictured as a menace
to the peace of Mexico which, it is pointed
out, would become a second Belgium in case
of war between the United States and Japan.
The Consul declares that the unusual
feature of this article lies not so much
in the information contained therein as
in the fact that it should be published at
all in that district.
A Mexican naval officer informed the
Consul that, in connection with the rumor
that the Japanese had landed munitions in
Magdalena Bay, he had made a thorough
investigation and was satisfied that no
basis in fact for the rumor existed.
The Mexican Government has officially
informed the Pan-American Fisheries, Ltd.,
an American company, that it has no objec-
tion to the visit of a Japanese ship to
Guaymas for loading shrimps for shipment
to Japan.
WTT/DLY
894.20212/367

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.93)
108.
FE
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Guaymas, Mexico, April 19, 1935.
A-c/e
DIVIION OF
LLEXICAN AFFAIRS
APR193
894.20212
CONFIDENTIAL
Dophrtment of State
SUBJECT:
Japanese Activities.
1—1055
Divisic!
EXN
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
after
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
O.NI.
894.20212/367
WASHINGTON
M.I.D.
2
SIR:
EA T
I have the honor to transmit herewith copies of
MAy95
th
 Spanish text and an informal translation of an
ticle which appeared in the HERALDO DEL YAQUI,
2
Ciudad Obregón, Sonora, Mexico, of April 17, 1935,
relative to Japanese activities along the west coast
of Mexico. The unusual feature of the article lies
FILED
not so much in the nature of the information contained
5
as in the fact that it should be published at all in
35
this district. Most of the statements made in the
article are nothing more than what most observers in
this part of the world have confidently believed for
a long time, although definite proof as to the
absolute truth of some of the allegations might be
difficult to seoure.
During recent years, it has been notable here
F/FG.
that the press was quick to criticize Americans and
the

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
the Government of the United States, but has been
extremely careful regarding what it had to say about
the Japanese. It is worthy of note that in this
article a definite stand is taken against the Japanese
where it is intimated that the Mexican Government does
not approve of the policy now being followed by Japan,
but that it is on muoh better terms with the United
States than has been the case with recent administra-
tions.
Considerable criticism has been heard in Guaymas
recently of the commercial methods employed by Japan
and fear has been expressed that the Japanese would
make a conoerted effort to invade the Mexican market.
However, so far the looal press has made no mention of
the subject.
With regard to the Japanese subject mentioned in
612.9417
my despatoh No. 83, of February 4, 1935, as having
visited Guaymas and other cities in southern Sonora
selling miscellaneous novelties, a local official told
me recently that he had received two visits from the
Japanese in question who had impressed him as not being
an ordinary salesman. My informant said he remarked
particularly that his visitor walked into the room
erect, clicked his heels together, and saluted briskly
in a military fashion. He added that the Japanese in
question must have been a naval or army officer as his
bearing was in marked oontrast to the ordinary Japanese
civilian who bows, sorapes, and sucks air through his
teeth.
▲

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.99)
3
A Mexican naval officer informed me voluntarily
in a casual onversation a few days ago, that he had
investigated the report ciroulated in the early part
of this year that the Japanese had landed cement, arms,
and ammunition in the Bay of Magdalena, on the west
coast of Baja California, presumably for the purpose of
erecting fortifications there. In this conneotion
please see my Strictly Confidential despatoh No. 87, of
February 1l, 1935. My informant told me that, with
other Mexican officials he had made a thorough
investigation in Magdalena Bay and the surrounding
territory and that they were satisfied there was no
foundation whatsoever for the report that a foreign
power had landed material there. He went on to say
that, personally and quite unofficially, he was
suspicious of every action of the Japanese in this part
of the world, and expressed the opinion that their
activities were seldom, if ever, what they appeared to
be on the surface.
So far as the consulate is able to learn, no
Japanese has visited Guaymas since the gentleman
894.20212365
mentioned in my despatoh No. 87, of/February 11, 1935.
The manager of Pan-American Fisheries, Ltd., an
American company operating in Guaymas, informs me that
the Mexican Government has officially informed his
firm that it has no objection to having a Japanese
vessel come to Guaymas and load shrimp for shipment to
Japan, and that probably a Japanese ship will come to
Guaymas

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.99)
4
Guaymas next fall to take a load of some 50o tons of
shrimp to Japan.
With the present wave of nationalistio feeling,
there is a general resentment against foreign labor and
capital in this district. However, the attitude towards
Americans in this district is probably more friendly
than it has ever been. If it were a case of ohoosing
between the United States and Japan, there seems to be
little doubt that general sentiment would favor the
former. The strong desire of the inhabitants here to
attraot American tourists has some influence on their
attitude, and there also seems to be a general feeling
that the present administration in the United States
has a sincere desire to show its friendship for Mexioo.
As has been reported previously, there are no
Japanese in Guaymas. However, there are a number of
Japanese farmers in the Yaqui Valley, probably about 7
or 8 and none of them oultivate large acreages. There
are also a few Japanese merchants in Ciudad Obregón.
There appears to be a larger colony in Navojoa, and it
is reliably reported that the Japanese Consul at
Mazatlán makes frequent trips to Navojoa, and that
each time he goes there the Japanese residents hold a
meeting at which he is of course present. The colony
in Navojoa is said to be organized and to hold a
meeting at least twice a month. Navojoa is some
distance from the sea and does not appear to be a
particularly strategio point from a military angle.
The

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.99)
-5
The significance of activities of the Japanese in
Navojoa is probably not as sinister as some of the
inhabitants there would like to believe.
However, from reports reaching this consulate
from time to time, it seems certain that the well
known interest of the Japanese in the Gulf of
Califomia and the west oast of Mexico is not inspired
solely by the possibility of commercial profit.
The HERALDO DEL YAqUI, published in Ciudad Obregón,
has a very limited circulation in Guaymas. However,
two residents of this city telephoned me yesterday
hinting that that paper carried a prominent article on
the front page which might be of interest to me. They
remarked that the publication of the article was a
surprise to them, and that the fact that a Merican
paper had brought the matter out into the open might
be significant.
Respectfully yours,
Guy W. Ray,
American Vice Consul.
Enclosures:
1. Spanish tert of article taken from
the HERALDO DEL YAQUI of Apr1l
17, 1935
2. Translation of above.
In duplicate to Department;
Copy to Embassy through Consulate General;
Copy to Consulate General, Mexioo.
File No. 800
GWR/rgs-5.
Fr

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY OF ARTICLE TAKEN FROM THE CIUDAD OBREGÓN NEWS-
PAPER (HBRALDO DEL YAQUI) DATED APRIL 17, 1935.
BAJA CALIFORNIA, AREA DE COMBÁTE
Japon Planea una Preparación Para Conseguir Tenerla
Al Menos Tal se Viene Asegurando en las Estados Unidos
del Norte a Causa de las Miras de Hegemonía en el
Pacífico que se Disputan
¿Será México en Dicho Caso Otra Bélgica Obligada a
.Meterse a la Guerra Sólo por. no ver Hollado su
Territorio por las Potencias en Pugna?
(Solo para este Periódico)
NOGALES, abril 16. Uno de las problemas más sinceros
del Japón es atacar a los Estados Unidos, a través de una
táctica. que pueda deslizarse por los más eminentes puntos
estratégicos de la Baja California; este es el punto de
observación de las propagandas oficiosas de los
centinelas de esta nación en disturbio que se llama Norte-
america. Este punto de..vista fue tambión sustentado por
el inquieto repórter, repleto de espíritu de aventura,
Floyd Gibbons, cuando hace algunos años publicó un libro
de pesadillas magnírico que tituló El Napoleón.Rojo. En
su libro de destrucción de Estados Unidos por los
amarillos se inicia de una manera tempestuosa e inconce-
bible, por los cauces sin dique en la Baja California.
BAJA CALIFORNIA EN PELIGRO
Según hay oomprobaciones indubitables, el Japón
mantiene.en las costas oeste de México un perfecto.
"sistema de inteligencia", compuesto orgánicamente por
dueños de tiendas de todas clases, restaurantes, agri-
cultores y pescadores.
Según las recientes declaraciones del periodista
norteamericano Fred Pesley, que viene publicando una
serie de artíoules con respecto a las actividades del
Japón en Arizona, las Costas del Pacífico y las Islas
del.Hawai, el Japón tenía debidamente estudiado el
establecer un campo de aterrizaje en Ensenada, Baja
California, estableciendo allí una base aérea, a
cincuenta minutos de San Diego y dos horas de Los
Angeles.
El Embajador norteamericano en México, Josephus
Daniels, tal parece que poseído de la.misma preocupación
envió un agente a la Ba ja Califormia, con el objeto de.
indagar entre las familias norteamericanas, sobre
cualquier Indole de asunto que pudiera tener relación
con ello. .Esas son algunas de las cosas que ocurren,
bajo la aparente quietud urbana del pintoresco pueblo
de Caléxico, aledaño a la frontera y bajo la égida del
Valle Imperial, exactamente al cruzar una calle de
Mericali,

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
Mexicali, que es la capital norteña del Distrito de la
Baja California.
SE HABLA DE LA
GUERRA
Mericali, famoso particularmente entre los norte-
americanos que afluyen a sus dancings, sus casas de
juego, sus cantinas, a beber el recio y substantivo
tequiia y a reflejar sus rostros ingenuos y burdamente
felices en el fondo negro y paradojal de la juventud
femenina que, "cuando llega el dolor beja la frente y
ouando llega el placer abre los brazos."
Pero también existe en Mexicali otro centro de
acción, menos festivo y olvidadizo, menos irresponsable
y charlatán. Ese es el foco de la política inter-
nacional y los negocios; allí existe también la
despepitadora de algodón más..grande del mundo, porque
allí los americanos tienen..cerca de un millón de acres
de algodón, en el delta del Río Colorado.
Allí en ese centro es donde los norteamericanos
aprenden.sobre política de México, en torno del Palacio
de Gobierno y en la plaza donde emerge con prominencia
herbica la estatua de Obregón; allí también aprenden
los.norteamericanos, agentes del gobierno.y periodistas
ambiciosos, sobre las actividades del Japón. Allí se
habla de la guerra del Japón con una seguridad que
pasma, con una displicencia fatalista. Rso lo saben
todos los mexicanos, japoneses y norteamericanos, los
que residen allí y los que visitan con el objeto de
saberlo.
EL ESPIONAJE JAPONES
Hay cerca de mil japoneses pescadores que trabajan
por toda la costa oeste en torno de Rnsenada. Se
afirma que cada uno de ellos es un espía inteligente,
hábil, temerario, patriota hasta el suicidio, que
anteponen el deber hasta la muerte. Además, se
asegura que en esas oostas la pesca es mezquina, de la
que es imposible lucrar, pero que los japoneses mantienen
la pesca, no obstante esa realidad, económicamente
negativa, pero táctica y estratégicamente ponderante.
Recuérdese cuando no hace mucho..tiempo veinte barberos
japoneses, inesperadamente, al pasar un barco japonés
por la Zona del Canal de Panama, aparecieron impecable-
mente vestidos de oficiales de.marina, mostrando una dis-
ciplina atildada y perfeota.
▲ ciertas millas, muy pocas por cierto, de la
ciudad de Mexicali, hay cerca de cincuenta mil acres
de terreno que resultan adecuadas para hacer la base
aérea a que nos referimos al principio y en las que se
piensa que los japoneses pretenden situar su ouartel
general. Barcos de guerra y toda olase de transportes
abreos,

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.98)
3
aéros, pueden situarse normalmente a doce millas de
Ensenada en la Bahía de Todos Santos. Todo lo demas
resultaria absolutamente simple.
VICTIIA COMO BELGICA
Cierto periodista decfa hace algunos días que el
Japón tendría tanto esorúpulo de invadir México como
Alemania de..invadir a Bélgica; asímismo afirmaba que
México estaría más indefenso para.repeler esa agre-
sión, que Bélgica a Alemania. Para ello argumenta que
Méxioo no tiene fortalezas y que no tiene un ejéroito
que pueda avalorar el nombre.
Abriendo trayectorias a grandes elucubraciones, 
he dicho además que el gobierno aotual de Mexico, no
admitiría bajo ningún motivo el que los japoneses
llegaran a orear situaciones muy delicadas en ese
sentido, porque además de no estar de acuerdo con la
politica japonese, la idea que tiene con respecto a
Estados Unidos es completamente distinta a la de otras
administraciones pasadas. También se ha puesto la
idea de que un Ejeroito siempre está en muy grave
peligro cuando pretende librar batallas de la magnitud
que serían esas, legos de su suelo.
Esos argumentos son sensatos para un sentido co-
mín que no tiene más misión que recoger las impresiones
superficiales de los pensamientos que no pueden penetrar
y analizar de acuerdo con las realidades que la ciencia
ha puesto a la disposición de la guerra. Porque cuando
un ejército lejos de su patria, va a pelear en las
circunstancias que acontecería con el Japón, visuali-
zando los peligros que se cernirán sobre el ejército
imperial, no sería cuerdo el pensar que viniera a un
suicidio deliberado.
-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.99)
TRANSLATION OF ARTICLE TAKEN FROM THE CIUDAD OBREGÓN
NEWBPAPER (HERAIBO DEL YAQUI) DATED
PRIL 17, 1935.
BAJA CALIFORNIA, ARRA OF COMBAT.
Japan Making Preparations to Hold it.
At least, So It is Stated in the United States to the
North Because of the Points of Hegemony which
are Disputed in the Pacific.
Will Mexico in That Case Be Another Belgium, Obliged to
Go To War solely in order Not to See Her
Territory Trampled by the Powers at War?
(Special for this Newspaper)
NOGALrS. April 16. One of the most genuine
problems of Japan is to attack the United States by
means of tactics which can be effected through the
most prominent strategic points of Baja California; such
is the point of view of the official propaganda of the
guardians of the disturbed nation to the north known as
North America. This point of view was also upheld by
the troubled reporter, Floyd Gibbons, filled with the
spdrit of adventure, when a few years back he published
a magnificent book of nightmares entitled "The Red
Napoleon." In his book of destruction of the United
States by the Yellow race, it begins in a tempestuous
and inconveivable manner, through the dikeless river
beds of Baja California.
BAJA CALIFORNIA IN DANGER.
According to incontrovertible proofs, Japan
maintains on the west coast of Mexico a perfect "system
of intelligence", comprised of omers of shops of all
kinds, restaurants, farmers, and fishermen.
According to the recent deolarations of the North
American newspaperman, Fred Pesley, who is publishing
a series of articles regarding the activities of Japan
in Arizona, the Pacifio Coasts, and the Island of Hawaii,
Japan has carefully studied the establishment of a landing
field in Insenada, Baja California, creating a base there
for airplanes, fifty minutes from San Diego and two hours
from Los Angeles.
The North American Ambassador to Mexico, Josephus
Daniels, apparently having the same worries sent an
agent to Baja California with the object of investiga-
ting among the North American families regarding anything
that might have a bearing on the subjeot. Those are
some of the things that happen, beneath the apparent
urban tranquillity of the pioturesque city of Calexioo,
near

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
near the frontier under the aegis of the Imperial
Valley, exactly across the street from Mexicali, which
is the northern capital of the District of Baja
California.
TALK OF WAR
Mexicali is famous, particularly among the North
Americans who flock to its danoe halls, its gambling
houses, to drink the strong and substantial tequila and
to reflect their naive and happy eyes in the dark
depths of feminine youth which "when pain comes lowers
its face, and when pleasure arrives opens its arms."
But there also exists in Mexicali another center
of action, less festive and forgetful, less irresponsible
and idle. That is the center of international politios
and business; there exists also the biggest cotton gin
in the world, because it is there that the Americans
have about a million acres of cotton, in the delta of
the Colorado River.
There, in that center, is where the North Americans
learn about Mexican politios, around the Government
Palace and in the square where stands so prominently and
heroically the statue of Obregón; there also the North
Americans, agents of the Government and ambitious
newspaper reporters, learn about the activities of Japan.
There war with Japan is discussed with a certainty which
astonishes, with a fatalistic displeasure. That is
known by all Mexicans, Japanese, and North Americans,
those who live there and those who visit with the objeot
of learning it.
JAPANESE ESPIONAGE.
There are about 1,0o0 Japanese fishermen who work
along all the west coast round about Ensenada. It is
stated that everyone of them is a spy, intelligent,
clever, fearless, patriotio even to the point of
suicide, that they place duty ahead of death. Further-
more, it is stated that along these coasts fishing is
poor, that profit is impossible, but the Japanese
maintain the fishing, in spite of that reality,
economically negative, but tactically and strategically
powerful. Remember not long ago when twenty Japanese
barbers, unexpectedly, on the occasion of the passage of
a Japanese ship through the Panama Canal Zone, appeared
impeccably dressed as naval officials, showing a polished
and perfect discipline.
A few miles, certainly very few, from the city of
Mexicali, there are about 50,000 acres of land whioh .
would be adequate for the air base to which we
referred

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
referred at the beginning and on whioh the Japanese
propose to locate their general headquarters. Warships
and all kinds of air transports can be concentrated
normally about twelve miles from Ensenada in the Bay
of Todos Santos. All the rest would be absolutely
simple.
VICTIM LIKE BERGIUM
A certain newspaperman said a few days ago that
Japan would have as much soruple in invading Mexico as
Germany had in invading Belgium; also he afrirmed that
Mexioo would be more defenseless than Belgium was
against Germany. For that, he argued that Mexic∞ has
no forts and that it has no army worthy of the name.
Giving ground for serious thought, it has been
said also that the present government of Mexico would
not allow under any pretext that the Japanese succeed
in creating delicate situations of that kind, because
besides not being in accord wi th the Japanese polioy, the
idea that it has with regard to the United States is
completely different from that of other past administra-
tions. Also the idea has been advaneed that an army
is always in very grave danger when it endeavors to
engage in battles of the magnitude such as those would
be, far from its territory.
These arguments are reasonable for a common sense
that has no mission other than to gather the superficial
impressions of thoughts which cannot penetrate and
analyze in accord with the realities which science has
placed at the disposal of war. Because when an army,
far from its country, goes to fight in the circumstanoes
which would be the case with Japan, visualizing the
dangers which would surround the Imperial Army, it
would not be logioal to think that it was coming to
a deliberate suicide.
-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.85)
LITARY INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
(G-2)
GENER AL STAFF
FROM:The Chief of Division
:TO
xecutive Cfficer
• AD TNISTRADTIVE BRANCH
M/A and F/L. Saction
:
Finance Section
:
:
Chief Cierk
8
:
Record Section
8
•INTELLIGENCE ER DICH
00
PUPLIC RELAT TONS PRANH
8
OPERAT IONS SROMCH
8
EO CRAPHIC PR.ENCH
:
SCRTARY, AL ST
  , 1
:
 3
:
EL , 4
:
 OFP
ADANT RALS E
FOR:
Heersury action
Preparation c" renly
Recormendat jon or romurk
Previous correcnendonee
Note and return
:lail
:File

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.94)
DIVISION OF
NAVY DEPARTMENT
AMERIANAFFAIRS
Office of the Chief of Naval Operation
OFFIOE OF NAVAL INTELLIGENCE
In reply reter to No.
AUG121935
0p-16-B-16
A8-5/EF37(8-2)
Serial No. 11609
1935 1G 20 AM 11 50
RESTRICTED
Division of
RESTRICTED
A11935AND
VA
Dreartsnant of State
My dear Mr. McGurk:
fill
I take pleasure in transmitting, herewith, a copy
of a letter from the Commandant, llth Naval Distriqtivrelatyver
MEXICAN AFFAIRS
to Japanese enroute to Mexico.
With best wishes, I am
894.20212/368
Very sincerely yours,
Department of State
894,20212
Ihen Staten
John Stapler
Captain, U. S. Navy
Acting Director of Naval Intelligence
Mr. J. F. McGurk
Assistant Chief of Latin American Affairs
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
FILED
10
2
RCTED
F/FG.

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.98)
COPY
COMMANDANT'S OFFICE
ELF VENTH NAVAL DISTRICT
San Diogo, Calif.
Refer to No.
2 August 1935
ND11/(18)/EF37/EF44
(AS-Pr)
RESTRICTED
RESTRICTED
From:
Commandant.
To:
The Chief of Naval peration.
(Direotor of Naval Intelligence).
Sub ject:
Japanese enroute to Mexioo.
1.
Lieutenant Commander Donald Armstrong, U.S.N.R. who associates
freely with pilots of the Fan-American  irways, flying between the West Coast
and  exico, has reported an unprecedented and remarkable travel of Japanese by
Pan American planes from San Francisco and !os Angeles to Mexico City during
the past ten days. Passports of these Japanese show that they are from Tokio
and belong, apparent ly, to the official class. An average of aix to ten per
day have gone to Mexico. They are receiving every consideration from  exican
Consular officials.
W. T. TARR/NT
RESTRICTED

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.96)
August 12, 1985
My dear Gaptaim Stapler:
Thank you for sending with your letter of
Aagust a opy of a letter from the Commamdamt,
llth Maval Distriot, relative to Japanese en
894.20212/368
route to Mexico. I have sent this letter to Mr.
Reed, Chief of the Mexieen Division, as of interest
to him.
Sincerely yours,
Edwin C. Wilsom
894.20212/368
Captain John Stapler,
Aoting Director of Maval Intelligence,
Mavy Department,
Washington.
ZOW/ZMG - LO
a laue cofey

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.92)
DIVTON O1
VFEAIRS
DCR
Tozile.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Orom
DeorrofS
LIVI OMEMORANDUM
-1935
Mr. wilep:
COMMJNICITIONS
Devertment of State
894.20212
Mr. Morgan, the Washington representative or
812.15
Traders, Incorporated, jut dropped into my office say-
ing there were two matters which had just come to his
812.014C
attention in a letter to him from their Mexican repre-
394.20212/36
sentative (who, incidentally, called on me while I was
in Mexico), which he thought should come to the Depart-
ment's attention.
The first of these matters was a statement which
his correspondent appeared to have accepted as a fact
9
that a Japanese firm had entered into a contract with
6
the Mexican Government for the construction of a high-
way to Guadalajara. It appeared to be assumed that the
Japanese firm would also continue the highway from
3S
Guadalajara to the port of Mazatlan. The suggestion
FILED
4
was dropped that the Japs would doubtless be glad if
Tolcio
19
Mexico City, the intimation being that their interest
F/F
in constructing this highway to lead from Mexico City
to the West Coast was of political significance for
G
Japan

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
Japan as well as of economic for Mexico. I am inclined
to doubt whether suoh a contract has been made, but I put
it thus on record.
The other matter mentioned to him in the letter from
his Mexico City correspondent had to do with Clipperton
Island. The indication contained in the letter appeared
to be to the effect that the arbitral decision of some
months ago awarding Clipperton Island to France was
brought about by some underhanded means and that it was
popularly considered by patriotic Mexicans to have
constituted an outrage upon Mexico. The letter also
reported that Clipperton Island is now being strongly
fortified by France and an intimation was made that this
fact could not be a matter of indifference to the State
Department or War Department of this Government because
of its strategic importance and the possible effect
it might have on the defense of the Panama Canal.
I told Mr. Morgan that both of these were primarily
matters for the consideration of the Mexican Division,
and suggested that he call there and discuss them. He
indicated that he would do so, and on leaving my office
went, I believe, to that Division.
mm
LA: WRM:FES

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
812.154/268
Roport # -
SEE
FOR
FROM
Moxioo City
(Leavitt
) DATED
ug 28, 1935
TO
NAME
1:127
REGARDING: Japanese aotivities within Mexioo.
Comprehensive report on various -.
jah
G

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.99)
Although it is reported from various quarters
that the Japanese Government and companies which are
believed to be intimately connected with that Govern-
ment are very active in Mexico, and although it is
bolieved that the reports are accurate, the writer has
been unable to discover to what end these activities
are loading.
However, the reports are set forth
below in the hope that they may be of interest to the
Department and that the Department may have some infor-
mation which might indicate what results the Japanese
Government is seeking to obtain.

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.93)
(COPY)
CONFIDENTIAL
DEF
RECEIVED
MEADQUARTERS FIRST CAVALRY DIVISION
OCT
41935
Grrice of the Divisien demmemder
ATL-JWW.
M
Fert Blims, Texas
Subjest: Japanesb Ikri
Division of
To:
Assistant Chief of staff, 0-2,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Headquarters, Kighth Corps Area,
V2
Fort Sam Beustem, Texas.
1935
1. A reliable El Paso eitisea mho has lived in mórthern
894.
Mexiee and trevels in that country frequently gave me the following
infematies yesterday:
Dr. PABLO R. NIKAMI, a Japanese natiomml, has
.2021
bees traveling with very eemplete peek equipmemt
(eeatents uakmown) amons the moumtains between Tmso-
SACHIC and KL VALLE for several meaths, osteasibly
searshing for ere bodies. To the best of our inform-
ant's belief he has never filed on any mimeral depos-
its. Our imformant talked te Dr. Nikmm1 in TmmOSACHIC
about six weeks age at whieh time the dostor told him
that he was going to LAs DKLICIAs te loek at the ir-
rigatien projeet there. He stated that he had just
sesured a eemera and permissien to use it, and was
interested in making photographs of the plaees he
visited, particularly dams emd similar struetures.
He appeared to be well supplied with funds and said
that his ineeme was derived from a eattle reneh lesat-
ed in northern Chihuahua. He knew two Japanese in this
vieinity whe are alse kmown by our informant bet de-
clared thet he mever visited Kl Pase. The Japasese
appeared te be an ereeptionally well edusated man.
He spoke Spanish fluently with little foreign ascest,
was well infermed in geology and metallurgy, and elaim-
ed to be a chemist and dostor of medieime.
(signed) A. T. LACKY,
Major, General Staff,
A. C. of S., G-2.
F/F
(Received from G-2, 8th Corps Arem, by 1st Ind. dated August 30, 1936.)
G
CONFIDENTIAL.

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
812.628/283
FOR
#162.
894.20212/
FROM
Cuaymas
(.....Yepis
..) DATED......0ct.16...1935
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Fishing and other activities of the Japanese in the Gulf
of California. Copies of two letters received by tha
37
local manager of the Pan American Fisheries, Limited,
from Frod Lewellyn of Los Angeles with regard to -. Some
2
truth to the situation as depicted in the letters.
894.2
b

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.93)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE812.628/284
FOR # 164
FROM
Gua yma
(...Yepis
) DATEDOt211935
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING: Japanese fishing activities in Gulf of California.
Correspondence of Pan American Fisheries relative to -.
jah
C

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.89)
104.
AMRI GAN OUNULATK
Guaymms, Mexio∞. Ontober 2l, 1985.
SuBJsor: Possible Fishing and Other Antivities of
Japanemm in Gulf of aliformia.
THE HONORABLE
THE BEOHZTARY OP STATH
WASHINGION
SIRI
I have the homor to refer to my despatoh No. 1es
of Octeber 16, l935, on the above subjent, amd to
emnlose herewith a copy of another letter whieh the
loeml mnager of the Pan Amerinan Fisheries, Limited,
received from "Fred" (Freu ewellyn) of Los Angeles,
dalifornia. The letter in question wms dated vetober
15, 1935.
In tranmmitting copies of lettors from ir. Lewellyn
(whieh are given me with the re quest that they be
forwarded to she Departmant), it should be understood
that the comeulate annot vounh for their norreetness.
al though some of the points mentiomed therein might
possibly be true and intemsting.
hempentfully yours,
A F. Yopis,
Amerian Vi nsul.
imclosure:
apy of letter cited above.
In quintuplieate to Department;
dapy to mbaony, through
Consulate Éemeral, Mexi no:
opy to Gonsulate Gemeral, Hexico.
File Nos. 262.8/8001
A5X/x0e-9.

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.89)
20RX
PAN ANZRI CAN FISHURIKS, LO.
packess, Hanufaeturers and
shippere of
Productien lant and Fiaber
ALL VARIT OF PHH AN URD
ies & lmymms, Sonorm,
SZA FOODS
Mexiee.
SALES OFFT CEI
1968 . 6th Street - Trin1ty 99e
LOS ANOELNH, ALIPORNIA
Uctober 15-55
Dear Lawrenee:
There are several very alever Japs that have eome
purpeses, but for some reason very mech interested in
Mexies, and for some reason they nome to me.
une by the name of Date, nlais to be here fer the
purpese of buying serap iron; but he spemds a let of time
here at thts ofrice, and he nontimmlly questioms me
about Mexies, how it is thet we meem to get along dowm
there ete.
I mm eultivatins then, but gut little or mething from
them. For some reason they all lead the conversmtion inte
the Gulf.
As you know I spent a great deal or sine with onish
and we beeame vory well aequminted, and aftor a coupke of
menths, he gave more informtion than ome ummlly semures
from them.
One thing was that, "what the world faiis to gmap.
that it is not the low nost of labor, nearly so mmak, as the
lew most of living that enables them to undersell the U.ß.
and England.
then he save me a very keen analysis of the many things
that make up the high cost er living in this nountry, they
have studied the details in this country and the prineipal
world mountrtes and use the rosult of sunh researeh to mmin
their ends, compelling their people to deny themselves
everything for their mperor.
He told me that a Jap group were paying a prowiñent
Mexiean offteigl, lo00 U.ß. dollars per month, te secure
for them a momeession in the Oulf of alif., and that they
would keep at it untill they sucnsed and they 
He said that within a fow years Japan will have beeome
very heavily interested in Nexieo, and that it weuld be deme
w

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.88)
2
by soouring the contre- of going ceneerms, and the obtais-
they maated to buy inte rann o that his aep and
ayself smtrelled sane, and let that be kapt seevet.
They were willing te sive me money te bri be po medte for
that way.
Also that they preferred to use their omm mem as
Meximan laber no mood, their mem very effinient, but thay
would mve to ume some ueximns at rirst.
In re ussia, he mmid, "te war for about twe years,
then perhaps war, and make good business."
He was confidemt Japan alome would never start war
agaiäst the U8., but there were powertul interests in
agninst us.
That is enough on that mubjeet, but you mind whas I
say, it stands everyome of you to be on the alert, nd
bloek every efrort thmt they make to break in there.
Sincerely.
(sigmed) Fred
mpied by Rüs.

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
812.628/326
FOR
desp  1166
FROM ...
Ensenada
(Samel
) DATED
March 27, 1936
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING: Proposed agreement between Mexico and Japan in connection
with the construction of a roadway between Mexico City
and Guadalajara by nationals of Japan in exchange for
fishing right on the West Coast of Mexico.States that
exploratory work being conducted and to be conducted by the
374
MINATO MARU is but an artifice for covering a military and
naval reconnaisance of the coastal waters of strategic
portions of the West Coast of Mexico. Comments on desires
of Tamanosuke Suzukd, Japanese rancher to secure information
concerning the Guadalupe Island.
FLH
12
7
C

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.86)
Ensenad, H.Cra., Mex100, Maroh 27, 1936.
STRICTLY CONF INI IL.
Japanese otivities on est coast or Mexioo.
HNO
THE ECRETA
上
S
I have the honor to refor to a ciipping rrom
FH  C Y  hnghul., d Janury
24, l936, regerding  proposed ukreement between
Mexioo and Jupan in conneotion witu the conatruction
of a roadway butween exlco city und Cuadala jara by
nationale or the latter country in excnunge ror fish-
ing right on the est coast or exico, which the
Dopartmont sent the Consulmis enerui in  ebruary,
a copy or nlon the coaul neral t ntr iy sent
this orfi for its inrormat. n nd peesiol intorest.
The Conoulate's reply to the consu ate oneral
furniohed niy aome reotn relutin to the urrival at
a Calirorie of the J punee ateam trawler I
MnU and to a pubiloned repurt regaraing tne pluna of
the company oper tine the vessel. The Conau.ate Ceneral
and the opartment no doutt nud alr ady received the
informition furni shed uy t is sirice.
T10

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.93)
- 2 -
The followine additiunal informat.on bas been
given mo by the master or a Mexican veusel whieh
touohes vari us exioun ports on tho
est coust of
Mexioo. y informant has been known to me ainoo
my enildhood, a portion or whion I spent in naenada,
1s a Mexioan naval reserve oificer, and I believe 1s
entirely s noere in his suspicions.
He is of the
opinion that the exploratory work ceing conduoted and
to be oonduoted by the I
A 1s but an artiriee
for covarine a military and naval reconnaisanee of
the eoaatal watere of strategio portions or the est
Coast or exioo. He stat a thut the veanol has been
Joined by two Japanese nationain, r. Yamuaniro and
Professor Yamawot, sho pessed in trineit through the
United states, probatly late in rebruary or early
this month, en route to Cuadula Jara. Theee individuals
have been joined by r. Len el raxo  angel, formorly
attuched to the tax orrice in lnseau, whose servioes
as an interpreter Lave oeen "louned" to the Japanese
commiesion. sr. el rago le understoou to
have learned
Jupeneeo durins years apent in J pun in the employ or
the Mexian vovernment, tudc ieun and
eunnery.
. Del prago wes the officlel faterpreter for the
exican
aut: orities at the ti e
of the vi 1t of the Japaneee
traininy ahip I  at tlis port last yeur. (see
my despaten No. 999 of June 6, 193s.)
My informant alleges thut the visit of the I 
alU to the est Coest oi exico nes caused reat ex-
oitement among the Jupaneso colonles ut Yavaros and
Mazatlan.
He reports that from
exican friend in
Yavuros

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.91)
- 3 -
avaros be learns that ut so-cailed classeu in
Spanish gonducted by a Japanese prore sor in Ymvaros,
attonded only by Jupunese, the ourriculum appear to
be ohiefly the study of maps and oharta.
Addins to the susplo ons of my 1 formant is the
faot that one Tamanosuke uzuki, a Japanese ranoher
In the Maneadoro relley, a fer ilos south of nsenade,
has approuched im twioe witn a vlew to making a voyage
to Guedelupe island to explore the pousici it es of use
of the 1sland as an uirplane iunuine field. suzuki is
alleged to have inquired aouut the topor rapny or the
top of the  ou tain, whether or ot ther were trees
growing on the heients, whet.er topogru hicl omarts
of the laland were availuble, et cetere.
My aoquaintanee roporla that he haa conveyed is
suspiolons to the appr prit. os: ice or the e urt ent
of war and Larine unu that it ls entirel poanible that
his transportation from Manzanillo to Mexico city may
b awaitine him when is v mel arrives at zanillo.
He has promised to furnisn me moditi onal intcrmat on
on tnis and almil r subjeots if and len le comea upon
1t.
heapeotruily yours,
ai
erioan Conaul.
820.02/815.4
HAS/1Da
In quintuplioate to the Depart ent.
Copy to t e Consulate General.
Copy to the mbassy.
pv of

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
812.6363/2891
letter
SEE
FOR
894.20212/375
FROM
Standard -Vacuum
(P. W. Parker
-.) DATED
Apr1l 3, 1936
O11 Company
TO
NAME
1-1127
New York City
REGARDiNG: Movements of certain Japanese who are understood to
be interested in acquiring oil concessions in
Mexico.
FLH

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
812.6363/335
desp  3464
SEE
FOR
894.20212/376
Mexico
Daniels
April 10, 1936
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1137
REGARDING: Japanese Minister's remarks on Japan's fishing and oil
activities in Mexico.
FLH
376

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
812.6363/2898
#.3549
SEE
FOR
FROM ...Mexi.co
Daniels.....) DATED
May 12.1936
894.20212/377
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:Japanese petroleum activities in Mexico:
Confidential memo giving list of concessions which Japanese-
controlled Compania Mexicana de Petroleo has obtained to date.
jah
377

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20212/
812.628/342
letter
SEE
FOR
FROM ...Arizona,..Govvarnar.of...-(.
) DATED ..Jun..1...1936.
TO
NAME
1-1127
378
REGARDING:
Japanese fishing activities in the Gulf of California.
Lettars from A.L. Verdugo and Bert Caudry regarding -.
3
2
b

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENTIA
VONTROL
AUG 4 1936
1136
Poply FOfer to: 3B6.HEADQUARTERS FORT HUACHUCA.
Office of the Commming Officer.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Fort Huachuee, Arisona,
AUG3-1936
July 13, 1936.
Assistant Chiof of Staff, 0-2
Headquarters Sighth Corps Area,
Fort Sam Houston. Texas.
hukeed
Dear Colonel Mellon,
The other day a bit of nows coneerning the aotivities of the
Japanese in the waters and on shore in wower Californie and Sonora was
given to our observar in Nogales by a gentleman who is a reserve officer
894.
In the Bureau of Nevel Intolligonee. It may be presumed that this in-
formation has been conveyed to headquarters of the llth Naval Distriet,
and that Washington is quite famillar with their activities, evidonced
In part by the recent Thompson esplonage case. Nevertheless, I pass it
2
on.
2
The informant stated that ho hus made seroral tripe aboard his
yaaht throughout the waters of Lower California and the mainland as far
2
south as Guaymas. About the ond of June e Jupunese tramp stoamer, large
1
onough to cerry four large sampans on deck, cloured from Guayuns with
(.
permission from the Lexicen Government to carry on scientific explorations
7
In the Gulf. It seems they wanted to classify and count the sohools of
6
difforent kinds of fish in the Gulf, with e view of oponing up new fish-
1ng grounds there. Colonies of 25 to 50 mon - no women or children -
have been established all along the coast lines, und are being used as
bases of operation for Lower slifornie und the Gulf. The steamer and
sampens are at present near the mouth of the Colorado hiver, and are work-
ing southward. Jur informant stated that it was absolutely manifost that
they are chartin the Gulf, and that the colonies are so situated that
they may be uued as base-end-stations in cal culations and surveys.
There were very fow, if any, of the Japanese to whom the American
party spoke that did not spoak very good nglish. Thoy all identified
themselves as fishermen, but had plenty of money for entertainment, dressed
far beyond the means of a fisherman, and had a great deal of leisure. The
Japanese said the steaner was a sciontific laboratory for classifying fish.
but would not pormit any of the yacht's party to go aboard it or the
sampans.
Our informant stated further that he had learned from an officiel
in Guaymas that there was a party of five Japanese and one Mexicen engineer
working on a survey of the Yaqui River, and that the party wae new in the
vicinity of the headwaters of that stream. The informant said that he
cheeked with a correspondent at Hermosillo who confirmed the report, but
T
said that the Jspanese and the Mexican represented themselves as prospectors.
Their equipment, however, was very elaborate and not suitable for prospeet-
7
1ng.
G

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTTAL
(Ltr.Hq.Ft.Huachuea, Aris., dated July 13, 1936, To Lt.Col.F.D.Mallon.
GSC, cont'd)
Under date of July 9th an informant in Nogales reports that he
learned from an Amerlean offieial that about the night of July 7th.
Mexiean Military authorities seized at Empalme, Sonora, l& new Thompson
mashime guns. 39 now .38 cal. Saith and esson p1stols and 140 baxes -
so stated, not as cases - of ammunition. These erms and emmunition
were arossed to Mexico a snort distance west of Nogeles by pack animals
and wore trueked to Imuris where they were pIeced on : south bound
train, whenoe they wers seised.
Under date of July lst tn informant sent ur some notos on the
Agrarian situation in southern orora, It seens that the Lgrariens have
demanded that they be given complete control and ownershi: of all agrieul-
tural lands in the Yequi Hiver valley. Their demend I: before cuthorities
in Mexico City for action. The farmerc there -  ericens, Moxicans and
other nationalities - have, of course orposed thls but have offered.
in an elfort to aprease the Agrariens, to purchase lan in thet velloy.
whieh is tillable, from the Moxican overnment. This vould cost the
farmors about 1.O00,00u.0. posos, payebie over & five year period. 1t
is reported.
John ceorge, the reprosentative of tho Thithoy interests there.
is said to have refused to sign the farmers' plan, and had plenned
going to doxico City lo soe what could be done about defeating the
Agrarian plun.
No further reports on tnis situation have been received, nor have
any press notes been observed.
Very sincerely.
(igned) John F. Fronklin.
John F. Franklin.
Colonel 25th Infantry,
Commending.
Source: Snclosure to lst Ind. from A. C. of ., U-2, Hq. Bth Corps
Aroe, Fort San Houston, Texas, July 16, 1936.

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.94)
2655-0-226
7
HEADQUARTERS EIGHTH CORTS AREA
Office on tho Asstatant Chief of Staff for Military Intelligence
NA
Please Refor
To File:
081 2 1936
24
G-2
350.05 Mil.Inf.(Gen)
FORT SAM HOUSTON. TEXAS
October 14, 1936
SUBJECT: Japanese Activities in Mexico
TO:
The Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, Wer Departmont,
Weshington, D.C.
1. The following confidentiel report was made to me by Colonel
894.202
Walter B. iyron, Vice  resident of the Gulr Refining Company in Moxico.
"ror severel years the Jepanese Government or repre-
sentatives of that governnent heve been rather active in
search for oil in Mexico. Their activities have largely
894.20212
been in what we term the Isthmus Country south and south-
east of Tampico. They have acquired a considerabl• num-
ber of oil concessions in that territory, and apparently
2
in individuals' names have acquired some concessions in
the states of Temaulipas and Nuevo Leon. hocently, their
C2
movements indicate that they may start some developmont
88
work in the Isthmus Country. At present there is : rail-
0
road from the Fort of Mexico on the Bay of Campeche to
Saline Cruz on the Gulf of Tehuantepec. The development
will be somewhat along this line, probably in the southorn
part of Veracruz. If oil were found at this point, it
could be trensported by tank cars to Salina Cruz. The
Mexican Government is now dredging e ship channol that
will acconnodate ocean-going vessels at alina Cruz.
"curfece indicetions for oil are very good in the
above-described aree and it is possible that oil in
commercial quantities mey be developed."
2. Colonel ryron also stated that labor demands upon his company
in Mexico are becoming increesingly difficult. He cited the two fol-
lowing examples - that the company discharge five of its key employee
in Mexico and that all Mexicen employees discharged since 1930 be re-
employed by the company.
(Sgd.)
F. B. MALLON.
P. B. MALLN.
Lieut. Col., Generel Staff.
. C. of .. G-2.
F
7
G

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.93)
DCR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF MEXICAN AFFAIRS
MEMORANDUM
894.20212
April 27, 1937.
1 1987
Jnstuction to mer.
To the secretary:
may 4, '37
NOTED
From Mr. Reed:
te
Subject:
Reported Japanese Activities in
A 11 05
Baja California, Mexico.
S
.11
u.
1710
Areview of the correspondence in the Department'e
ftres fo the last three years has disclosed no reports,
2
5
otier than one or two based on unconfirmed rumors, of
894.20212/38
an intensification of Japanese activities on the West
Coast of Mexico, apart from apparently legitimate fish-
ing enterprises. There are no reports indicating that
there has been an abnormally large influx of Japanese
into Baja California in recent years, and in view of
8
the fact that American consulates are maintained at
Ensenada and Mexicali, Baja California, and at Guaymas,
which is situated on the mainland just across the Gulf
from the lower portion of the peninsula, it is believed
that the absence of such reports may be considered as
reassuring on the point.
With respect to the statement that Japanese nationals
enjoy a privileged status with respect to immigration
into Mexico, it is understood that for a time they were
in
F/F
G

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
in fact entitled by treaty to claim certain exemptions
from the exclusive provisions of the Mexican immigration
laws. However, the Department's information indicates
that the provision of the treaty between Mexico and
Japan which conferred such privileged status upon na-
tionals of the latter country was terminated by an
agreement entered into by the two Governments in the
year 1924.
Edward L. Reed.

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.93)
file
WAR DEPARTMENT
Anch. to
WAR DEPARTMENT GENERAL STAFF
Con. Gin,
MILITARY INTELLIGENCE DIVISION. G.2
-ARIMENT  STAIWASHINGTON. D. C
Fr
Srupiew
Latin American Section, G-2
4/29
1937 MAY 6 AM 10 47
Rcf/aat
DIVISION OF
April 29, 1937.
COMMUNICATIONS
894.20212
AND REORDS
Subject: Japanese Population and Immigration in Mexico.
4 1997
MaJ
To:
Chief, Mexican Arfairs Division, State Department.
It is requested that information on the following topics
894.20212/382
be furnished in connection with study being made in the War Depart-
ment:
a. No. of Jupanese living in Mexico.
b. No. of Japanese living in Lower California.
c. No, of Japanese immigrating into Mexico in
past two yeers.
d. Frequency of reports or surveys of Coastal Areas
in Lower California pertaining to above subject.
6. M.lllumond
E.. IMOND,
Major, General Staff,
Chief, Latin American Section.
td
F/FG

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.86)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF MEXICAN AFFAIRS
seam nu . ,leed
letout the isly
dutu resreled i
to instrect mnd

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.99)
Apr. 30.
Mr. Tanis of ME states that
the fourth item (d) in the War
Dept's letter can be answered more
expeditiously by the Department than
by the Consulate General and that
ME has already arranged to handle.
In reply to my suggestion that
a statement be added enjoining
seoreoy, Mr. Tanis replied that the
C.G. would in all probability wend
copies of this instruction to the
consulates concerned which were all
familiar wi th such matters and which
were aware of the necessity for
handling in confidential manner.

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.93)
May 4 1957
CONFIDENTLAL - FOR STAFF USE ONLY
Themas D. Bowman, Esquire,
Ameriean Consul General,
Mexico, D.F.
sir:
The Department is in receipt of a memerandum dated
68
April 29, 1937g from the War Department, stating that
it desires to obtain information on the following topies
021
in conneetion with a study which is being made by offieials
2
of that Department:
a. Number of Japanese living in Mexice.
2
b. Number of Japanese living in Lower Califormia.
Mumber of Japanese immigrating into Mexico
in past two years.
You are requested to forward a carefully prepared
report embodying the data requested by the War Depart-
ment. You are, of course, authorized to enlist the as-
sistance of all American consular officers stationed in
Mexico in an effort to obtain full and correet informa-
tion for transmission to the War Department.
Very truly yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
Sumner Wellem
m
mnn
FE
A true copy of
EROT:ABW 4/29
the algned origi-
eAR
ROS

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.83)
PA
DIVISION OF
LEGATION
THEN37
UNITED STATES OF AMERIC
THE AMERICANDREPUBLIUS
DEFARTMENT OF STATE
No.275
Guatemala, June 15, 1957.
Sojoet:
Japnace Stut t meico and
Cont  Aic
2
1AL
n
B
71
894.20212/8
l
The toneec le
The Sce
3
Vast,D.
Sir:
33
I have bhe ser be pepet
lent I
cont to cll  Pri nt
oleven
o'clock a Po iy tru ly
every way. Our conrercatr
at tuenty-two
minutes, the aret piften
con-
FILED
fined to rely soc 1 topics.
The enchante of courteuirs cona to n end,
President ico brou ht up U subjeet of o Jepanese
situabion as it exists tody nd its an  to the
United Stetes end Contral Amorica. io stated that
there weve over 100,000 Jamunese in o lco nd that
their fishing vessele were very active off the coast
of the Pacific from Panama through Hexico, adding
F/FG
that

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.78)
-2-
addiny thn t while he felt the Japanese prebe ly had their
hands ull try iny to contvel the situat on in China, he
still felt t e situetion on cur Sratinent vas vory critical.
He assure de tat ia Japn ehymlr ive t e aated Stases
 ,w o n  
e: nkod hin.
10 0l a10
Fay all Suinl
KHC
Ca 
Fay Arlon oaPrtes
FAD: IP

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.97)
FE
CONFIDENTIAL
DIVISION 
No. 43.
THEAMELICAN HEHUBLICS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
Mexico, D. F., Mexico, July 1, 1937.
SUBJECT:
Information for War Department regarding
Number of Japanese in Mexico.
uution
FAR EASTERN AFEMRS
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE. CopY handed To
Department of State
major Almond
SIR:
ACT
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
confidential instruction of May 4, 1937, requesting
894.80212
information regarding the mumber of Japanese in
Mexico.
Consul William A. Smale is engaged in making a
personal investigation of this subject with regard to
12/3
the northern section of Lower California and as soon
C
C
as his report is received, which will, no doubt, be
4
within the next week, I shall immediately reply to the
Department's above-mentioned instruction.
Mr. Smale planned to visit a number of places in
his district, in order to obtain first hand information
FOLRD
and intended to finish his trip yesterday. His expenses
are being paid by the War Department.
1937
Respectfully yours,
James B. Stewart,
American Consul General.
In triplicate to the Department;
102.2/850.101
JBS:acf
2
T
2

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.91)
DIVISION OF
310
THEAMERICAN HEHUBLICS
AMERICAN CONSUA
DEPAMENT OF STATE
Duren go, Durengo, Mexico, June 29, 1937.
A
COIFIDEITIL.
SUBJECT:
Japanose Living in Durenco Consular District.
1-2055 GP0-
3
(5
0
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.
STATE
SIR:
JUI 8-1937
CHIEF
Tr i
Ve the honor to refer to the Concul: te General's
DIVISION OF
onfidential Circuler Ho. 15 of June 16, 1957, Pile
tureign Sepict Admin
No. 102.8/850.101, ontitled, St tintics lel tine to
894.20212/385
Jepe ne se Livine in  xi co, by vhich the various Concul tes
are im'ormcd th t the Depe rtment is desirous of
ascert ining st tisties rel tive to the nwiber of
E
oinlstation
Jopenece reuidina in their respective districts, and the
nuaber who heve iari rated irto their distriets during
the lost tvo years.
In compli nee vith the  bove-mentioned Circuler,
I in ve to im'om the Demrthent thet nccordine to
informr tion supplied by a Japanese of this city there
are but thrce Japanese vesid ine in thic Conrul r dirtrict,
FILED
neither of them havine immig sed into this distriet
1937
within the peet tuo yours.
Rospectfully yours,
ErrEaton.
ton,
Americn Vice Can su1
F/FG
In

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.89)
-2-
In quintuplicate to the Department of tate.
Copy to the mer ican Eabassy, Liexico, D. .
Copy to the meri cm Consulate General, Mexico, D. .
File No. 102.2/850.101.
E.E:FIC
8l17

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Division of the American Republios.
MEMORANDUM
August 4, 1937.
Mr. Duggan:
Recently rumors were current in
various quarters in Washington that there
were known to be about 100,000 Japanese
in Mexico. The War Department thereupon
asked the Department of State to make
a careful check through our Consuls
in Mexico. Accordingly, the Consul
General at Mexico City was instructed
to prepare a confidential report, en-
listing for that purpose the services
of all American Consuls in Mexico if
necessary. Consul General Stewart's
confidential report was received a few
days ago placing the estimated number
of Japanese in Mexico slightly above
5000. Do you wish to see the report?
87-
RA: RCT: MJC

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.94)
ION
281937
55.
is handed
THE AMEHIAN DEPUBLIUS
jir almond
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERATE
m.3.9.
7/30/37
Mexico, D. F., Mexico, July 14, 1937
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
CONFIDENTIALRCI.
SUBJECT:
Information for War Department regarding
Number of Japanese in Mexico. (2)
55
t th
S
0
N
S
NI
THEHONQRAELE
8-17437
UCC
su
J27
THESECRETARY OF STATE.
894.20212/386
38
WHINGTON.
Oomercia) Ottee (A-0/q)
0130-19313
894.2021
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
confidential instruction of May 4, 1937, and to my
despatch No. 43 of July 1, 1937, and to submit the
following data concerning the number of Japanese in
Mexico:
(a) Estimated number of Japanese in
Mexico...
.5,300
(b) Estimated number of Japanese in
DG
Lower California.
.1,650
(c) Estimated number of Japanese immi-
grating into Mexico in past two
years (Figures incomplete, see
NOTE b below).
The above information is based on the following
data received from American consular officers in
Mexico and from information received from Japanese
sources.
Figures

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
Figures according to Consular Districts (a)
Consular
Estimated Num-
Estimated Number
District
ber in Mexico
Entering in Past
Two Years.
Agua Prieta
25
0
Chihuahua
187
0
Ciudad Juárez
180
0
Durango
3
0
Guadalajara
180
(b)
Guaymas
State of Sonora
150
3
Matamoros
3
C
Mazatlán
320
(b)
Mérida
0
Mexico City (Consulate
General)
700
(b)
Monterrey
50
2
Nogales
325
15
Nuevo Laredo
8
C
Piedras Negras
700
(b)
Saltillo
3
0
San Luis Potosí
40
0
Tampico
70
(b)
Torreón
350 (c)
40
Veracruz
370
(b)
TOTAL, other than
Lower California
3,664
Lower California
Mexicali
900 (a)
20
Ensenada
Balance of Lower
California
500
135
TOTAL, Lower
California
1,400*
155
NOTES
1/
(a) A map showing the limitations of the various
consular districts in Mexico is attached.
(b) At Guadalajara, Mazatlán, Mexico City, Piedras
Negras, Tampico and Veracruz there are no figures avail-
able for the number of Japanese immigrating into those
districts during the past two years. In each case, how-
ever, the statement is made that the number is believed
to be negligible.
(c) These estimates (350 and 40) were supplied by
Japanese sources and, according to the Consul at Torreón,
are believed to be high by American and Mexican sources.
(d) Estimate by Secretary of the Japanese Associa-
tion of Mexicali. Mexican immigration figures show 532
Japanese adults registered and pending registration.
According
*See page 3, paragraph 2.

=== Page 321 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-
According to reports received from the various
consulates, most of the Japanese are engaged as petty
meohnts, farmers and fishermen, and a few as barbers,
doctors and dentists.
The estimated number of Japanese in Mexico was
arrived at by taking the number (3,664) estimated by
the consuls (except those in Lower Calirornia) and
adding thereto the estimate (1,650) for Lower California
which was supplied by the Secretary of the Japanese
Legation to a Secretary in the American Embassy, making
a total of 5,314. Thus, the lower figure of 1,400
supplied by the consuls was not used.
Mexican Census Figures
The Mexican census for 1930 gives
the mumber of Japanese in Mexico as......4,310
Immigrants entering Mexico from Janu-
ary, 1931, to November 1, 1936
(Office of Social Statistics).........
689
TOTAL.
.4,999
2/
According to the attached statement from the
Office of Social Statistics, 180 Japanese left the coun-
try during the above-mentioned period. Being legal
residents, they had the right to return witnin two
years. However, there are no figures available as to
how many actually returned. Nor are there figures
available showing how many Japanese entered Mexico
illegally during that period.
Comparative Census figures for the years 1900,
1910, 1921 and 1930 are as fo11ows:
Year
Total
Males
Females
1900
41
40
1
1910
2,205
2,026
179
1921
1,823
1,584
239
1930
4,310
2,731
1,579
According

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.99)
-4
According to the above, 1579 female Japanese
entered Mexico in 1930. This figure may be high as
in 1930 a Mexican woman who married a foreigner ac-
quired his nationality and it may be that the figure
includes some Mexican-born women.
While in numerous cases it was impossible for
the consular officers to obtain accurate figures
regarding the number of Japanese at present in their
districts, nevertheless, the data were acquired in-
dependently and, therefore, it is believed that the
figures may be considered as a fairly reliable check
on the Census figures and the estimates supplied by
Japanese sources.
With reference to the number of Japanese entering
Mexico during the last two years, the Consul at
Mazatlán reports that the procurement of immigration
visas is, and has been for several years, quite dif-
ficult. This statement is confirmed by several other
officers and their figures also tend to substantiate
the statement. In this connection, the immigration
authorities at Veracruz gave the following information
to the American Consul at that port:
"Japanese immigration is restricted at
present, and the only Japanese who enter the
Port of Veracruz are the spouses of residents
of Mexico or of Mexican citizens. Almost no
Japanese immigrants have landed at Veracruz
during the last five years. Orientals coming
to this section of the country enter at Mazat-
lán or at other Pacific ports."
From this study, it appears that only a small
number of Japanese has entered Mexico in recent
years

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.96)
-5
years and that the number living in Mexico at present
is about 5,300.
Respectfully yours,
messslemar
James B. Stewart,
American Consul General.
Enclosures:
1. Map showing American consular
districts in Mexico.
2. Statement from office of
Social Statistics.
In quintuplicate to the Department of State;
Copy to American Embassy, Mexico, D. F.;
Copy to American Military Attaché, Mexico, D. F.
102.2/850.101
JBS:acf
2oy bus anh

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.90)
losure No. 1 to despatch No. 55, dated July 14, 1937
rom the American Consulate General, Mexico, D. F., Mexico,
entitled "Information for War Department regarding Number
of Japanese in Mexico (2)."
AMERICAN CONSULAR DISTRICTS IN MEXICO
O N A
NEW MEXICO
107
100
ARKANSAS
DO
vallas
B
JOUISIANA
MISS
SSIPPI
ALABAMA
T E X A S
FLORIDA
30
Mobil
330
so
N
R A
0.110
AHUA
我alveston
Chihuahua
COA
Laredo
uevo Laredn
G U L F
:tillo
Montarrey
O F
25
DURAN
.ON
M E X I G C
TAMAU-
ACATELAS
Wictoria
SAN
LIPAS
PACIFIC
O C E A N
WAYAJU
7
LUYS
topd
Mar.da
YUCATÁN
2
Ca…pocha
QUINTANA
MEXICO
Colim
Morel.a
Tolucq
Jal
CAMPPCHE
Payo
Cbispo
ROO
C
Principal Raulways
American Consulate
Goneral
GUERRERO
American Consulata
Cuipancingu.
OAXAC
HOND
Boundary of Amorican Consular
Acapu'lo
b2125
Districts
CHIAPA
Scale
18,500.000
00
300
GUATEMALA
15
800
300
502
30
HOND
105°
.00*
95
50

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.99)
Jure No. 2 to despatoh No. 55, dated July 14, 1937,
the American Consulate General, Mexico, D. F., Mexico,
titled "Inrormation for War Department regarding Number
of Japanese in Mexioc (2)."
THE MINISTRY OF NATIONAL ECONOMY
OFFICE OF SOCIAL STATISTICS
BUREAU OF STATISTICS
MIGRATION
:IMMIGRANTS :EMIGRANTS :VISITORS : TOURISTS :TOTAL
Year : Nationality :
1930
Japanese
517
89
114:
7
727
1931
Japanese
297
63
6
39:
3
408
1932
Japanese
122
51
21
24
3
34:
3
262
1933
Japanese
41
18
24
9
18:
136
1934
Japanese
30
18
25:11: 19
37:
1
150
1935
Japanese
10
11
45:
2
158
1936
Japanese
2
26
34: 11 : 35:13
48:
2
171
(From
January:
to Nov-:
ember
NOTES:
IMMIGRANTS: Under this heading are listed the foreigners
who, having complied with all the requirements
established in the Migration Law in effect,
are granted permission by the Ministry of
Gobernación to settle in the country, subject
to observation, in order that, after a certain
given period, they may be definitely admitted.
EMIGRANTS:
Under this heading are listed the foreigners
who are legal residents of the country and
who have left the country for a period of
less than two years.
VISITORS:
Under this heading are listed those foreigners
admitted into the Republic for a period of not
more than six months to transact business or
fulfill a labor contract.
TOURISTS:
Under this heading are listed the persons who
enter the country exclusively for a pleasure
trip and for a period of time of not more
than six months.
Mexico, D. F., July 9, 1937.

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.83)
Angust 17, 1907
20212/386
.
with reseresse to the remers shisk heve beem
ressking e frem time to time dring the past yeer tt
Japensee entgrante have bosm geiag to Nezice in insrese
ingáy lasge mbere (sese reperte even placixe the tetal
 Japemese in Mexiee at 100,000), the Amerieem
Sonsel Gamsrel in Xaziee City was lastrested to make a
sonfidential survey and to sukmis his estimates to the
Separtment.
I have mew reseived the Gonsel Gemeral*s report,
the y of hic I 
"(a) Estiaated oar of Japanese ia Maziee, 5, 300
1,050*
dalifermia,
This informatiom has beem osmmmiested to the War
Department.
Believe me
Faithfally yours,
386
0
Sumner Welles
The President,
The white Eease.
n2.
U SW:IJ

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.94)
ITIAL
A
DIVISION OF
JUL 28 1937
No. 60.
FE
THE APUDLIUS
UEPARIMENT OF STATE
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
Two Copies
handod t
Mexico, D. F., Mexico, July 2b, 1937.
mojer almond
SUBJECT:
Japanese Activities in Mexico Especially
7/30/37
on the West Coast.
FAR EA
100
TERN
Department of ate
THEHONORABLE
S
S
Q
THESRCRETARY OF STATE,
H
WASHINGTON.
5
C
O.N.I
C
193575U
H
N
894.20212/387
despatch No. 55 of
July 14, 1937, concerning the number of Japanese in
Mexico, submitted in compliance with the Department's
894.20212/352
confidential instruction of May 4, 1937, and to supple-
ment that despatch with the following information con-
cerning the activities of Japanese in Mexico, especially
on the West Coast.
In a 1etter dated June 17, 1937, the American Vice
Coásul at Guaymas. states:
"Reference is made to the fishing activities
in these waters on Japanese vessels, notably the
M/S MINOWA MARU and MINATO MARU, Connected with
1591
the Japanese concerns of Kyodo and Mitsui (having
offices in Los Angeles and San Francisco, Cali-
Tornia), respectively, frequently reported upon
by this office. At least the MINATO MARU is now
en route to Japan, and the MINOWA MARU, if not
already on the way, is about to depart. Four
D0
smaller Japanese fishing vessels having their
home port in Los Angeles, California, which he
been operating in these waters for the above con-
cerns (through the Japanese Shin Shibata), are
now on their way. However, it seems most probable
that Kyodo and Mitsui will return with the MINATO
MARU and the MINOWA MARU to these waters when the
shrimp season starts next October, possibly ac-
companied by other large fishing vessels of Japanese
registry, and a considerable increase in their
activities, together with an increase in the
Japanese colony here, may reasonably be expected.
In

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
In fact, it seems that the two companies named
above are planning on constructing docks, cold
storage and other facilities at Guaymas shortly.
A number of officials of these companies have
been travelling constantly between Los Angeles
(California), Guaymas, Topolobampo, Mazatlan, Man-
zanillo and Mexico City.
"A book entitled EL ALMA DEL JAPON by Keichi
Ito, published in Mexico City this year, a copy
of which was given the writer by a local employee
of the above-named Japanese concerns, might be of
interest inasmuch as it shows the kind of propaganda
disseminated by the Japanese."
1/ The book referred to by Vice Consul Yepis is enclosed.
Consul Derry, Mazatlán, has informed this office
regarding the operations of Japanese fishing vessels
as follows:
."Mazatlán for more than a year now has
served as a center of operations for two Japanese
fishing vessels which have been working this coast
rather thoroughly for shrimp and small fish, which
they freeze on board for export. The tackle and
scientific apparatus on board these vessels are
said to be the last word in such equipment, and
it is assumed that they have done considerable
work in the way of charting this coast. It is
not believed that their catcn does now, or ever
did, warrant the expense of their operations."
In this connection the following quotation from
Consul Derry's political report of April 1, 1937, may
be of interest:
This district was visited early in the month
by the Japanese Minister, and some two weeks later,
by the German Minister. Both were described as
visits of courtesy', and both were most cordially
received by the local and State authorities. The
German Minister was accompanied by his wife, the
Japanese by his Military Attaché and private secre-
tary. Both proceeded north into Sonora after brief
visits in Mazatlán and Culiacán.
"The visit of the Japanese Minister provided
the occasion for a banquet and fishing party on
board the M/S MINATO MARU, one of the vessels which
has been fishing along this coast under a concession
granted by the Mexican Government some time ago.
Besides the Minister's party there were present
General Federico Montes, commanding officer of this
(the 9th) military zone, General Malpica, chief of
the local garrison, the local Collector of Customs,
a Mexican inspector of fisheries (who accompanies
the

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
the MINATU MARU on most of its expeditions), the
chief of the local office of Game and Fisheries, and
the president of the fishing company. The last men-
tioned (speaking through an interpreter) expatiated
upon the aims and purposes of his company and of the
Japanese people, which he said were identical with
those of the Mexicans, and endeavored to show that
while the operation of this fishery was of some
benefit to Japan, it would be equally beneficial
to Mexican economy. This discourse was answered
by General Montes, who said in substance that he
personally, as well as his Government, fully under-
stood and appreciated the aims and purposes of the
Japanese people in general and of the fishing
company in particular, and that the latter could be
sure of the hearty cooperation of the Mexican Gov-
ernment. The General also stated that it was most
gratifying to note that the Japanese people know
how to treat Mexicans with 'gentileza, and that
this unfortunately had not been characteristic of
other powers in their dealings with Mexico. This
office, of course, was not represented at the
gathering mentioned, but I am satisfied that the
source of my information is entirely reliable."
Activities Around Mexicali
According to Consul Bowman at Mexicali, the approxi-
mately 200 Japanese adults in his district who are engaged
in agriculture, will be affected by the Agrarian program,
as they have been operating on leased land belonging for
the most part to the Colorado River Land Company. To
quote further:
.."It is stated that they have received
guarantees from the President and the Governor
that they will be permitted to remove the crops
which had been planted before the initiation of
the Agrarian program.
"The Japanese farmers are now studying a
project to develop a section of new land along
the Colorado River south of San Luis, Sonora.
If this project is accomplished, they hope to
obtain a guarantee of possession for at least
fifteen years from the Mexican Government. A
Secretary of the Japanese Legation is now at
Mexicali to study the feasibility of the project
for this colony."
The Secretary of the Japanese Association is
of the opinion that a satisfactory arrangement will
be reached with the Mexican Government for the
future farming operations of his nationals."
Comments

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.98)
Comments from Piedras Negras
Vice Congul Wood reports as follows regarding the
Japanese in the Piedras Negras Consular District:
.."The Japanese here are very secretive and
clannish. They keep by themselves and do not mix
in the social life of the community. For that reason
an estimate of their mumbers is difricult to make.
Once I casually asked the president of the Asociación
Japonesa in Piedras Negras how many Japanese were in
this district, and he said he did not know the exact
number but that there were very few. Once when a
Japanese had been arrested in a nearby town for some
serious offence, a Japanese told the Consulate mes-
senger that any time a Japanese was charged with
some serious crime he would have at his disposition
within a short time thousands of pesos that would
be contributed by the Japanese throughout Mexico,
each Japanese contributing one peso.
"The Japanese here are scattered throughout the
district, the greatest concentration being in the
towns of N. Rosita, Sabinas, Agujita and Cloete,
in the coal mining region of N. Rosita, and at
Piedras Negras.
"Practically all the Japanese here are proprie-
tors and employees of small grocery stores.In
Piedras Negras there is the ubiquitous Japanese
dentist.
"It is believed that the Japanese first came
here in numbers thirty or forty years ago to work
as laborers in the coal mines. They then estab-
lished themselves throughout the district in small
grocery stores, sending to Japan for their wives
and fiancees."
Information regarding the activities of Japanese in
Lower California, outside the Mexicali Consular District,
will be submitted immediately upon its receipt.
Respectfully yours,
anessStne
James B. Stewart,
nclosure:
American Consul General.
1/ Book entitled EL ALMA DEL JAPON.
In quintuplicate to the Department of State;
Copy to American Embassy, Mexico, D. F.;
Copy to American Military Attache, Mexico, D. F.
102.2/850.101
JBS:acf

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.93)
894.20212/387
Enclome with
despatl no.6 0 6
20.1937
mennno, 10.7.
894.
2
02
2
387

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.90)
KB
ICHI ITO
JAPON
Cakila.
MEXICO, D. F.
1937

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.99)
El Salmo de la Vida
(De Longtellow)
Ah! no me digas en tu canto triste
Que "Nuestra vida es sólo vano smeño";
Porque el alma está muerta en el ensueño,
En que todo se ve como no existe.
La vida es real, la vida es siempre activa,
Y no es su fin en cl sepulcro hundirse.
Que "Ser polvo y en polvo convertirse",
No se ha dicho del alma, siempre viva.
No es del hombre la senda o el destino,
Ni el amargo pesar ni la alegría,
Sino la acción, para que cada día
Avance otra jornada en su camino.
La vida es larga, pero el tiempo estrecho,
Y el corazón más varonil y fuerte
Bate fúnebres marchas de la muerte,
Cual velado tambor dentro del pecho.
Del mundo en el gran campo de pelea
Y de la vida en el vivac glorioso,
Sé un héroe que combate valeroso
Y no mudo rebaño que se arrea!
3

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.98)
Siluetas Niponas
A mi inelvidable discipale Kelcßl Ite.
(Don Juan)de Dios Peza)
PRIMERA
La núbil Genzi-Lilas
de inverosímil pie,
que tiene las pupilas
color de hojas de té,
Mirando al Fuji Yama
le dijo a Nan-Ki-Sú:
Tan grande así es la llama
que en mí encendiste tú!
No admiran los nipones
en su candente Sol,
cual yo en mis ilusiones
más fúlgido arrebol,
Pues tu mirar me quema,
ni mires más que a mí:
Yo soy la crisantema
macida para ti!
Oh, nívea flor de Luna!
responde Nan-Ki-Sú;
no miraré a ninguna
mientras me quieras tú.
5

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.99)
Dei futuro los pasados son inciertos;
Vive y obra sin tregua en el Presente,
Tu corazón en ti, Dios eminente!
Deja al pasado sepultar sus muertos!
Los héroes que eternizan las memorias
Pueden hacer la vida noble y bella,
Y que al partir, dejamos una huella
Del tiempo en las arenas transitorias.
Tal vez algún hermano desolado,
Náufrago de los mares de la vida,
Recobre alientos en su alma dolorida
Al mirar ese paso señalado.
Arriba! A la obra, con viril confianza!
Y el corazón dispuesto a todo evento,
Sigamos de la vida el movimiento
Guiados por el Trabajo y la Esperanza!

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.99)
El Espiritu del Japón
(Don Rafael Sierra)
Islas benditas del Japón hermoso!
Si algún extraño os preguntare un día
Qué espíritu, qué genio prodigioso
Impulsa a vuestras huestes a porfía
A un porvenir grandioso!
Decidle que es el ímpetu esforzado;
Que es un soplo divino
Con la flor del cerezo perfumado;
Una fuerza que empuja hacia el destino
Sembrando de heroísmos el camino;
Fuego que incendia el corazón patriota
Cuando lanza el clarín la brava nota.
7

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.99)
Yo voy para la guerra,
mis glorias allí están;
los dioses de mi tierra
mis pasos velarán;
ni lágrimas ni flores
de los guerreros son:
si muero, no me llores,
mi sangre es del Japón;
si vuelvo, en más tranquilas
horas retrataré
mi rostro en tus pupilas
eolor de hojas de té.
SEGUNDA
Interrogó la anciana Ki-Nu-Yema
a un soldado nipón:
—Qué me dices del joven Zat-Su-Lema!
—Murió en una explosión.
Trepando un cerro inmenso como el Ande
le fué el hado fatal.
Hasta el morir fué grande!
—Nadie es grande...
muchos han muerto igual!
-Quieres pedir un premio?
—Nada exijo..
—Qué intentas demandar!
—Sabe el Mikado que me queda un hijo:
Que vaya en su lugar!
6

=== Page 339 === (confidence 1.00)
Advertencia
rante mi vagancia en México, particularmente en es-
tos tres años, he publicado en los diarios y semanarios
metropolitanos; muchos de ellos han sido traducidos de
autorizadas opiniones japonesas, y son, por ende, diversos
en materia y variados en criterio, pareciéndome así que
presentarían más interesantes y acertadas descripciones de
los múltiples aspectos del Japón, que la monótona exhibi-
ción de mi modo de ver personal, de estrecha experiencia
y de escaso conocimiento.
En lo que todo patriota pretende contribuir con algo
a su país amado, reconozco que mi humilde trabajo no va-
le ni una gotita de agua del océano; pero he querido reim-
primir estos escritos como un triste recuerdo de mi vida
privada, y dedicárselos, de todo corazón, a mis tres peque-
ños hijos, quienes siempre me han acompañado en mis
amargos pesares, y es para ellos que va insertado aquí mi
8

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.99)
retrato, aunque muy posiblemente merezca la severa critica
del lector, por lo vulgar que es, crítica que poco importa a
un buen padre.
Por último, debo expresar mi profundo agradecimien-
to a los señores Hamada, Izawa y Matsumoto, por cuya
simpatía se ha realizado la presente edición.
México, D. F., 25 de septiembre de 1936.

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.99)
El Problema del
Pacifico
En 1843, un senador americano pronosticó que el Océano
Pacífico se convertiría, algún día, en la escena principal de
los importantes sucesos mundiales. Parece que, después de no-
venta años, estamos presenciando el desarrollo de cierto esta-
do de cosas que no augura, desgraciadamente, felices aconteci-
mientos.
Hasta 1853, cuando el comodoro americano Perry tocó las
puertas del Japón, la expansión de América, Francia, Inglate-
rra y Rusia en el Oriente, estaba dirigida exclusivamente ha-
cia la China, y aquel imperio insular, por su posición geográ-
fica, se quedaba fuera del radio de las actividades expansio-
nistas de aquellas naciones. Sin embargo, el Japón, que poco
a poco desplegó su fuerza nacional, llegó a ocupar un puesto
importante entre las potencias que, hasta ayer, lo miraban co-
mo a un hermano menor y débil, y hoy lo contemplan como
un país impertinente.
Se puede decir, empero, que la tendencia general de aque-
lla época era que Inglaterra y los Estados Unidos respaldaban
al Japón, para contrabalancear la influencia de Rusia, que
10

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.99)
confiaba en el apoyo de Francia y Alemania; es decir, eada
quien buscaba un instrumento conveniente para satisfacer sus
propios intereses. Era una contienda entre la influencia an-
glosajona, por una parte, y la latina por otra; o, en otras pa-
labras, la alianza anglojaponesa—con Estados Unidos—eon-
tra la alianza francorrusa.
Alemania, que fué la última en venir al Pacífico, extendió
rápidamente su influencia; pero estaba más bien allegada a
Francia y Rusia, como lo comprobó tomando parte en la inter-
vención de las tres potencias, hecha en el Japón al final de la
guerra chinojaponesa.
Después de la guerra ruso-japonesa hubo fricciones de ma-
yor y menor grado entre Japón y Estados Unidos, con motivo
de las cuestiones de Manchuria y del movimiento antijaponés
surgido en el último país; de ahí que comenzara también la
enajenación de las relaciones anglojaponesas.
Las potencias quieren y exigen la "puerta abierta" en el
Oriente; pero ¿para qué sirve esa "puerta abierta" si la paz
no está garantizada? El mantenimiento de la paz es la condi-
ción primordial para la "puerta abierta". Ahora bien, fuera
del Japón, que por sagrada obligación se encarga de preservar
la paz en el Oriente, quién podría dedicarse a ello!
Como algunos previsores europeos y americanos aseguran,
el día en que el Japón se retirase por completo de Manchuria,
no sólo aquella región, sino todo el Continente asiático se ve-
ría envuelto en una extrema efervescencia. Si alguna potencia
quiere tomar sobre sus hombros la responsabilidad de preve-
nir esta perturbación y mantener la paz en Manchuria y en

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.99)
el Continente, necesitaría, cuando menos, de 10 a 15 divisiones
de ejército. Y ningún país, aparte del Japón, sería capas de
hacerlo, pues ni siquiera podría recompensar sus gastos, aun-
que llegase a monopolizar el comercio chino.
El que Manchuria haya progresado a grandes pasos últi-
mamente, aumentando su población de 9 millores que tenía
en tiempo de la guerra chinojaponesa, a 30 millones ahora, se
debe exclusivamente al mantenimiento del orden y la paz, a
que se ha consagrado el Japón con sus tropas.
Como se ha dicho antes, la política nacional del Japón es
muy moderada y razonable, y, por consiguiente, si alguna ex-
traña potencia pretende chocar con ella, ese mismo acto mere-
cerá la censura del mundo entero, y esa potencia será la inva-
sora del Oriente y perturbadora de la paz.
El almirante americano Pratt ha declarado que "no hay
ningún problema que no sea posible arreglarlo conveniente-
mente por la vía de la diplomacia y el arbitraje". Si los países
de Europa y América reflexionan con calma, no hallarán mo-
tivo ninguno para culpar al Japón, y mucho menos tendrán
razones para hostilizarlo. Todo podría resolverse con buena
voluntad y franqueza.
Después de la conflagración europea, todos los países su-
fren la depresión económica y todos están luchando para ali-
viar la situación por que atraviesan, agotando su sabiduría y
devanándose los sesos; pero, a pesar de todos sus esfuerzos,
durante años, no han podido tener éxito. Por qué? Porque se
ha errado el diagnóstico del mal, ofuscándose por el egoísmo
y el patriotismo mal entendido.
Por regla general, el deseo de vivir es el más vehemente e
12

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.99)
intenso de todos los deseos de los seres humanos. Si hay algu-
nos países que, por falta de alimentos y por la estreches de su
territorio, están abrumados con la demasía de hijos, es porque
unos cuantos países grandes y fuertes han acaparado la tierra
y adoptado una política exclusivista, diciendo: "quítate de mi
casa; yo, en cambio, voy a la tuya y hago lo que se me antoja".
Cómo llegaron esos grandes países a posesionarse de tan
extensos territorios? Con qué fundamento moral y con qué
derecho! ¿Les fueron donados por Dios! No fueron botín
injusto de explotación y usurpación!
Las malditas prácticas de los bárbaros de antaño, que sub-
sisten aún hoy, son la restricción a la migración y las barreras
aduanales. Estas prácticas equivalen a la negación del dere-
cho de existencia que poseen todos.
Poco sensato fué aquel que dijo, ex-cátedra, que "el Este y
el Oeste no podrían confundirse nunca". Entiendo que este
poeta laureado es cristiano.
Entonces, en el tiempo de la guerra chino-japonesa y aun
después, los publicistas europeos abrigaban obstinadamente la
opinión de que el Derecho Internacional no era aplicable a los
países del Oriente que no son cristianos. Pero acordaos, lecto-
res, de que jamás se ha oído decir que Jesucristo haya hecho
diferencia de razas. Con este prejuicio, sin embargo, los oc-
cidentales querrían cerrar sus puertas a los orientales y hacer
en el Oriente todo lo que les diera la gana. Qué ironía! Qué
injusticia! ¿Por qué no procuramos vivir todos en armonía y
en fraternidad, haciendo del Pacífico crisol de las dos civiliza-
ciones, la occidental y la oriental...
("Todo", 5 de septiembre de 1933.)
13

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.99)
Los Puntos de Vista
Japoneses
1. OTRA VEZ LA GUERRA SOBRE EL TAPETE
Las noticias de Europa han traído últimamente el pronós-
tieo de una posible guerra entre el Japón y la Rusia Soviética,
y hasta en los periódicos vernáculos han aparecido algunos ar-
tíeulos que si no son sentimentales o burlescos, son pueriles.
En el número 18 de "Todo" fué publicada una sensacional
profecía de León Trotzky sobre el mismo tópico, por la que
no quiero gastar muchas palabras ni ocupar el precioso espacio
de este magazín; porque cada quien es muy dueño de opinar.
Me limitaré, por ende, a invertir lo que dijo Joseph Stalin del
Japón:
"que nosotros quisiéramos tener buenas relaciones con los
rusos, pero desgraciadamente eso no depende de nosotros so-
lamente. Si en la Unión Soviética llegan a prevalecer elemen-
tos más razonables y más prudentes, nuestros dos países po-
drán vivir en completa amistad; pero temerosos de que la fac-
ción militante de Rusia pueda dar al traste con la sana política
que abrigamos..."
14

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.99)
Además, en un próximo número del magazín americano "Li-
berty", donde apareció la famosa profecía de Trotzhy, apa-
recerá también un interesante artículo del señor Yosuke Matu-
oka, que fuera delegado japonés en Ginebra, y que aceptan-
do galantemente el amable reto especial del antiguo líder so-
viético, le va a contestar y refutar extensamente. Espero que
dicho artículo será igualmente reproducido en "Todo", lo que
me daría muchísmio gusto.
2. EL FAMOSO NACIONALISMO ECONOMICO
En el fondo del nacionalismo que está de moda hoy día, y
que es producto de la depresión económica, se encuentran las
contradicciones y aflicciones de la irracional economía uni-
versal que prevaleció en el pasado y aún prevalece en el pre-
sente. La última guerra mundial no fué otra cosa que la irrup.
ción de esa misma estancada irracionalidad; y no obstante
que el mundo ha pagado con grandes sacrificios esta confla-
gración, las irracionalidades no han sido corregidas en nada.
sino. por el contrario, se han intensifieado. Por eonsiguiente.
los cambios que han ocurrido en el mundo económico después
de la guerra son un proceso de ajuste y reorganización de la
economía mundial sobre una base nueva. sólida y raeional.
Abrir todos los mercados y recursos del mundo, reconoeer
la libertad de comercio y de emigración, y garantizar las ae-
tividades económicas basadas en el espíritu de juego limpio.
sin ninguna artimaña, y en beneficio del género humano: tal
es el único camino para regenerar el mundo actual. Sin em-
bargo, en estos momentos cuando el mundo entero está entre-
gado a la tarea de cerrar sus puertas, nadie escuchará el ar-
gumento de tan elevado ideal; pero tarde o temprano ae tiene
15

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.99)
que llegar a esta meta suprema, si se quiere la paz y la pros-
peridad.
3. LA POLITICA NACIONAL DEL JAPON
Por regla general, se necesita algún tiempo antes de que el
mundo sepa apreciar o reconocer el verdadero valor histórico
de todos los problemas que se presentan en nuestros días.
El incidente de Liutianghu, ocurrido el 18 de septiembre
de 1931, dió origen al establecimiento del nuevo Estado de
Manchukuo y al retiro del Japón del seno de la Liga de Na-
ciones.
Transcurridos más de dos años, el mundo ha vuelto a la se-
renidad y empezado a considerar el problema manchuriano, no
como una cuestión aislada, sino como una parte integrante
de los muchos problemas de la presente época, que está cons-
tante y rápidamente mudándose. Si el mundo de hace do
años hubiera tenido la mitad de calma que tiene ahora, no
habría dado tantas vueltas inútiles alrededor de este asunto.
No es sino un mero formalismo el pensar que sólo el man-
tenimiento del statu quo significa la más alta justicia interna-
cional, puesto que la situación de hoy no fué la de ayer, ni
mucho menos será la de mañana, y la transición es la esencia
de la historia, que no cesa de cambiar. Frente a esta sustan-
cia de la historia, la capacidad y la misión de los amantes de la
pas debe ser el hacerla evolucionar y concordar de una ma-
nera lícita y natural, que no sea incompatible con su apa-
riencia.
La independencia de Manchukuo, emanada de su instinto
de propia conservación, tuvo el apoyo instintivo del Japón,
10

=== Page 348 === (confidence 1.00)
que se consagra al mantenimiento del orden en el Oriente.
Considerando la situación general del Oriente, hundido por
largo tiempo en una decadencia caótica, puede decirse que el
acontecimiento ha sido ipso facto un movimiento de renaci-
miento propio de la generalidad oriental. Consecuentemente,
desde un punto de vista histórico desapasionado, no existe nin-
guna razón para que peleen China y Japón con motivo de la
independencia de Manchukuo.
El Estado de Manchukuo se dedica actualmente a las obras
de construcción institutiva y económica, izando el estandarte
del principio de "Wangtao", que significa, libremente traduci-
do, "el camino del benévolo gobernante".
El nacimiento de este Estado, de ninguna manera cons-
tituye una cuña entre Japón y China; antes bien, debe signi-
ficar un puente entre las dos naciones, para estrechar más y
más sus relaciones de solidaridad.
Las relaciones internacionales del Japón en los últimos
años han sido como las ondas producidas principalmente por
el caso Manchuria, y un reflujo de las cuales se ha visto en la
Liga de Naciones. El Japón se retiró de la Liga porque esta
institución internacional tuvo otra opinión acerca del mante-
nimiento de la paz en el Oriente; pero la línea de conducta del
Japón, después de su retiro, está claramente delineada en el
Edicto Imperial promulgado en marzo del año pasado.
El sostenimiento de la paz en el Oriente depende de la con
trucción y desarrollo de Manchukuo; en otras palabras, Man-
chukuo fué establecido como la base de la paz oriental. Por
so la condición primordial para las relaciones internacionales
del Japón debe ser el afianzamiento de relaciones amistosas
eon los países vecinos, cuidándose de no estorbar el desenvol-
vimiento de Manchuria. Para mostrar lo justo de su fe y de
17

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.98)
su conducta respecto a Manehuria, el Japón contrae la obliga-
ción de ayudar el saludable desarrollo del nuevo Estado, y
mantener la positiva política de "puerta abierta". Con esta
mira en la mente, el Japón procura cultivar e intensificar los
vínculos de amistad con China, la U. R. S. S., los Estados Uni-
dos, Inglaterra, Francia, Alemania, Italia, etcétera. Ojalá que
las potencias comprendan esta sincera intención!
En cuanto a la defensa nacional, es otro aspecto que atien-
den todas las naciones, y, por ende, el Japón no puede des-
cuidar este problema.
4. EL JAPON Y LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS
Cualquier charla de guerra entre los Estados Unidos y el
Japón es enteramente imbécil. Es cierto que ha habido mo-
mentos de tensión diplomática entre los dos países, pero las
divergencias no han sido de tal carácter que no permitieran
alguna conciliación. Además. las dos naciones están tan es-
trechamente relacionadas por lazos comerciales, que no pue-
den ser sacrificadas por el sentimentalismo o la ambición per-
sonal. Cuando suben las acciones americanas del acero es
euando la seda japonesa mantiene más altos precios, y cuando
aumenta la exportación japonesa de hilados y tejidos es cuan-
do suben los precios del algodón americano; de modo que am-
bos países son obligados a mantener relaciones de interdepen-
dencia, a gozar de mutua prosperidad y a lamentar al mismo
tiempo la depresión económica. En consecuencia, el choque
entre las dos naciones no sería más que una cuestión de senti-
miento, y el antagonismo entre ellas sólo redundará en prove-
cho de otras poteneias.
10

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.99)
Puede haber alguna o algunas potencias que deseen ver en-
vueltos en una guerra a nuestros dos países; pero no es tan fá-
cil satisfacer sus deseos, pues no faltan en ambas naciones sen-
satos e inteligentes estadistas que no se dejarán aprovechar
por otras potencias. Dado el caso de que la contienda brutal
estallara, por desgracia, pueden imaginarse las desastrosas
consecuencias.
Suponiendo, llegado el caso peor, y que las dos potencias
se alisten a romper las hostilidades, sería muy problemático
que los Estados Unidos, por poderosos que sean, pudieran to-
mar la ofensiva inmediata, movilizando rápidamente todas sus
scuadras y predominando en el Pacífico con abrumadora su
perioridad; ni se puede imaginar que el Japón pueda abrir sus
fuegos contra la tierra americana. Consiguientemente, la lu-
cha sería larga, y como resultado, el comercio de los dos países
beligerantes decaería o se paralizaría, y los mercados extran-
jeros pasarían a manos de los neutrales. Además, dada la po-
sición que los dos países ocupan en el mundo, cualquiera de
ellos que perdiese la guerra perdería su poder mundial, junto
con la hegemonía en la economía universal, y los concienzudos
estadistas no deben atreverse a tal aventura.
La guerra es siempre destructora, tanto para el vencedor
como para el vencido, y el Japón y los Estados Unidos deben
estar alerta para no ser arrastrados a un caso extremo.
5. LA COMPETENCIA NAVAL
Ultimamente se ha acelerado la competencia de armamen-
tos entre las grandes potencias, no sólo en la construcción de
buques y aviones, sino en el apresto de las bases navales e hi-
10

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.99)
dronáuticas. Se dice que los Estados Unidos han construído
menos buques que otros países signatarios del tratado de
Wáshington, y que por eso van ahora a aumentar sus unidades
navales, para tener la supremacía mundial. Inglaterra y el
Japón no pueden quedarse atrás, porque, como dijo el Secre-
tario americano de la Marina, el armamento paralelo servirá
para garantizar la paz mundial, pues donde no hay la paridad
de armamentos no hay la posibilidad de paz. Además, sería
preferible y más varonil aumentar abiertamente los armamen-
tos que acudir al peligroso y vil método del espionaje y la pro-
paganda injuriosa. Con el primer método se puede ocupar a
los sin trabajo. Los armamentos son para defenderse contra la
agresión exterior, o para cuando efectivamente son atacados
la dignidad y los intereses nacionales; nada más.
Sin embargo, con una mira más amplia, la rivalidad naval
es la guerra sin cuartel, y debe evitarse antes de llegar a los
extremos. Ojalá que aparezcan eminentes y nobles estadistas
que pongan coto a esta competencia desastrosa!
(“Todo", 1933.)
20

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.98)
El Japón Antiguo
yModerno
La base fundamental de la civilización japonesa radica en
que es muy antigua y a la vez muy moderna. Como el cerezo,
su emblema nacional, sus raíces se arraigan hondo en el suelo,
con leyendas de miles de años, pero sus ramas florecen frescas
a la vuelta de la primavera. Es una combinación misteriosa
de lo antiguo y lo moderno, y ahí el encanto de la nación. Ello
explica el porqué el Japón es tan adorado por un lado, y por
el otro criticado, sospechado y hasta temido a veces.
Si, por ende, se desea conocer a fondo al Japón, o explo-
rar las fuentes ocultas de las causas y efectos que lo han hecho
evolucionar, es necesario ponerse en contacto con el pueblo
japonés en su casa, e indagar de cerca el verdadero estado de
cosas y el genuino sentimiento nacional. Cuando menos es pre-
ciso escoger libros que no sean fantásticos o con propósitos
mal intencionados, sino auténticos. Tal es la única manera de
deshacerse de cualquier prejuicio o mala inteligencia que se
pudiera albergar, con perjuicio serio de las relaciones inter-
nacionales. Porque de lejos todo parece bello o endiablado.
21

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.99)
EL JAPON DE HACE UN SIGLO
Hace un siglo, el Japón parecía estar encantado como Rip
van Winkle en su sueño. Interiormente tuvo dificultades socia-
les y políticas, pero exteriormente todo era para él como si el
resto del mundo no existiese. Fué en la era de Tempo, en el
Shogunato del onceavo Tokugawa, Iyenari, cuando la familia
gobernante llegó aparentemente al apogeo de su poder y pros-
peridad, siendo el Shogún honrado con el más alto rango que
el Mikado podía conferir, y que ningún otro de sus predeceso-
res había gozado jamás. Fué, sin embargo, sólo entre las cla-
ses predominantes de altos funcionarios de Yedo y de prínci-
pes comerciales de Osaka, donde la comodidad y prosperidad
material abundaban. Entretanto, el gravamen de tributación
que pesaba sobre los campesinos había llegado a ser más y más
oneroso; el número de Ronins y Samurais desocupados au-
mentó en proporción peligrosa; y la terrible hambre de Tempo.
que duró por muchos años, mató a muchísimos desdichados.
hasta que por fin esta sucesión de desastres culminó en el fa-
moso tumulto de Oshio en 1838, que no fué más que el levan-
tamiento de un ex oficial de policía y sus compañeros de dos
espadas, y que incitó al populacho de los infelices hambrien-
tos a actos de pillaje y saqueo.
EL COMODORO PERRY
Siguieron diez y seis años de vehementes reformas y con-
trarreformas, con leyes de severidad drástica, alternadas con
oportunistas medidas, cuando la nación fué sorprendida por
la visita del comodoro americano Perry, que, con sus "naves
22

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.99)
negras", tocaba a sus puertas cerradas. Ese acontecimiento
envolvió al país entero en un pánico, revelando la ineapacidad
del Gobierno en momentos críticos, y dió ímpetu a un movi-
miento revolucionario con el grito de " Abajo el Shogunato!"
Así empezó la agitación política para restaurar al Emperador,
confinado en el cautiverio dorado de Kioto, en el poder efec-
tivo, y éste fué un movimiento popular iniciado no por vasallos
influyentes de poderosos clanes, sino por Samurais de baja ca-
tegoría, especialmente los Ronins (samurais sin jefe).
LA CAIDA Y EL RENACIMIENTO
Pasaron otros diez y seis años, y la altiva casa de Toku-
gawa, que había prosperado por 265 años, junto con el sistema
feudalista militar inaugurado por Yoritomo en 1192, vino a
tierra hecha pedazos (1868). El final del régimen Tokugawa
marcó el término de la vieja política de aislamiento nacional
y el principio de la marcha vigorosa sobre las líneas occiden-
tales, esto es, el comienzo del nuevo Japón.
El progreso que desde entonces ha hecho el Japón ha sido
tan extraordinario que muchos críticos extranjeros lo consi-
deran como sin par en los anales del género humano. Refor-
mas, innovaciones y mejoras, unas tras otras, con rapidez in-
creíble. En su afán de reforma y reconstrucción, nuestros
primeros reformadores de Meiji parecían, en muchos casos,
haber ido un poco más allá de lo indicado, destruyendo cosas
que hubiera sido mejor conservar; pero el sacrificio era ine-
vitable en una época de precipitado progreso.
El viejo estilo de peinado para los hombres fué aboli.
do en 1871, simultáneamente con las dos espadas del samurai.
23

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.99)
El ejército y la armada fueron reorganizados. El servicio mi-
litar obligatorio fué adoptado en 1873, para reemplazar a los
viejos privilegiados samurais. Jóvenes oficiales civiles y es-
tudiantes fueron enviados al extranjero para estudiar las artes
y las ciencias del Occidente.
La Constitución vigente fué otorgada por el Emperador
Meiji en 1889, y la primera sesión de la Dieta Imperial se efec-
tuó en el siguiente año. Paralelamente con la legislación de la
Dieta, se desarrollaron toda clase de industrias, así como el in-
tercambio y el comercio. Todo el país fué dotado de redes de
ferrocarril y telegráficas y de cables y postes eléctricos. Escue-
las, hospitales y bibliotecas aparecieron por todas partes, y, en
suma, después de medio siglo de abrir la puerta nacional
en 1868, el Japón había adquirido todos los parafernales ata-
víos de un Estado moderno.
UNA REACCION
Para entonces, el Occidente había empezado a estudiar al
Japón seriamente, para descubrir los secretos de sus fenome-
nales realizaciones, que fueron atribuídas a causas más pro-
fundas que la mera adopción o imitación de la civilización oc-
cidental; estudio cuyo resultado fué una revelación de que ha-
bía en el Japón viejos gérmenes de cultura y de fuerza que
contribuyeron a la grandeza del Japón nuevo, y que el aisla-
miento del Japón feudal, mientras le hacía incalculables daños
al retardar el progreso, había permitido al pueblo gozar por
más de dos siglos del ininterrumpido reino de la paz, tan pro-
picio para el desenvolvimiento de las artes y oficios nativos.
En otras palabras, el alma del Japón viejo fué identificada
como la creadora del nuevo, y el espíritu de revuelta que im-
24

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.99)
pulsó a sus hijos a levantarse y destruir el régimen Tokugawa
fué, en último análisis, el mismo genio constructivo que hiso
la era de Meiji, puesto que demostró el valor nacional de ac-
ción en una crisis.
Así, el péndulo empezó a moverse en la dirección opuesta
del nacionalismo conservativo; el anterior apego al Oeciden-
te fué algo entibiado, y el reexamen de la civilización oriental
fué estimulado. Ello condujo al descubrimiento de muchos
maestros antiguos en varios ramos del arte y la cultura, hasta
entonces desatendidas, y también al renacimiento de viejas
modas y costumbres, festivales y otras prácticas que fueron
consideradas como anticuadas y hasta bárbaras en los prime
ros años de Meiji, entre ellas la ceremonia del té, el drama
"No" y las pintorescas fiestas anuales.
(“Todo", 1933.)
25

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.99)
Las Dos Fases
del Japón
Aun hoy prevalece la tendencia de atribuir nuevos valores
a las cosas de antaño, y se puede decir que, aunque parezca
raro, nosotros en 1933 tenemos mayores facilidades y oportu-
nidades para estudiar el viejo Japón, que nuestros padres hace
cincuenta años. Y es que el Japón tiene un doble aspecto, el
nuevo y el viejo, como se ha dicho antes. En otras pala-
bras, el Japón tiene dos fases: el colorido misterioso y ro-
mántico Japón de Lafcadio Hearn, de las flores de cerezo, de
las geishas y del Monte Fuji, y el Japón que es una potencia
mundial, equipada con poderosos ejército y marina, con su
Prensa, su Dieta, con redes de ferrocarril y ubicuos servicios
de motor y ómnibus.
ORGANOS DE COMUNICACION
Hasta la Restauración, antes que comenzara el proceso de
modernización, el Japón no había estado mejor acomodado que
diez siglos antes, con sus sillas de mano y sus lujosos y chi-
26

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.99)
rriantes carruajes de madera tirados por bueyes. El eambio
en los sistemas de transporte y comunicación vino con sor-
prendente rapidez. El antiguo sistema de mensajeros cedió
lugar al postal moderno en 1868. La silla de mano cargada por
dos hombres fué suplantada por el ferrocarril en 1872. La
primera compañía de vapores fué establecida en 1870. El pri-
mer aparato telegráfico que se vió en el Japón fué llevado por
el Comodoro Perry en su segunda visita (1855), pero fué has-
ta 1869 cuando su primera comunicación tuvo lugar entre To-
kio y Yokohama. El Japón se unió a la Convención Postal In-
ternacional en 1877 y a la Convención Telegráfica Internacio-
nal en 1879, mientras el servicio telefónico fué instalado
en 1890, y el servicio interior de bultos postales se ini-
ció en 1891.
El tranvía eléctrico fué introducido al Japón más bien tar-
de. El primer carro eléctrico corrió en Kioto en 1895, después
en Nagoya en 1898, y en Yokohama en 1899, siendo Tokio la
última en instalar sus tranvías en 1903. Actualmente, apenas
hay una ciudad que no tenga trenes movidos por electricidad.
El primer automóvil fué importado por el Japón en 1897.
Los japoneses fueron algo tímidos en la innovación, al princi-
pio; durante los diez siguientes años, únicamente 16 automó-
viles fueron importados. Fué después de la guerra mundial
cuando su número aumentó a grandes saltos. El censo de 1932
registra 110,000 automóviles en el propio Japón. Además,
hay ya fábricas de automóviles netamente nacionales.
LA INDUSTRIA MECANICA
Es fácil comprender que en un país en donde, hace cin-
euenta años, todas las industrias nativas eran hechas a mano,
27

=== Page 359 === (confidence 1.00)
el desarrollo de la industria mecánica sea de muy reciente
fecha. Los órganos de transporte y comunicación tuvieron que
ser perfeccionados, antes de que la maquinaria pudiera ser
utilizada. Así, con excepción de los hilados y tejidos, tan in-
dispensables para la industria de seda, el uso de maquinaria
estuvo en un estado primitivo. Fué después de la guerra chino-
japonesa cuando se hizo el positivo progreso.
La vanguardia de la industria moderna fué, sin duda, la
Fundición de Hierro del Gobierno, establecida en 1897 en
Yawata, Kyushu, con una instalación capaz de producir 90,000
toneladas de hierro en lingotes y acero, capacidad que luego
fué redoblada. En 1903, la Kawasaki Dockyard Co. Ld., de
Kobe, fué organizada y la siguió la Japan Steel Works,
de Hokkaido, en 1907, y así las demás.
La industria de la construcción de buques en este país tu-
vo una historia medianamente larga, que se puede seguir des-
de los días de Bakufu (gobierno feudal). Por muchos años
después de la Restauración, este ramo industrial había estado
bajo el control del Gobierno, así como las demás industrias lo
habían estado en sus iniciales etapas. Pero entre 1884 y 1886
todos los astilleros del Gobierno pasaron a manos de empre-
sas particulares, y en los treinta años siguientes, la arquitec-
tura naval tuvo un notable desarrollo, debido en parte a los
liberales subsidios concedidos anualmente por el Gobierno.
Entre 1907 y 1911, tres modernos barcos de turbinas, de 13,000
toneladas, fueron construídos en el Mitsubishi Dokyard, de
Nagasaki, y en 1930 tres barcos supermodernos, de 18,000 to-
neladas cada uno, fueron botados al agua.
Durante la Guerra Mundial brotaron 335 nuevos astilleros,
y el tonelaje total de construcción en 1919 montó a 630,000 to-
28

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.98)
neladas. Estas cifras explican por sí solas el rápido desenvol-
vimiento, si se compara con 50,000 toneladas de 1913.
LA INDUSTRIA ELECTRICA
El Japón, deficiente en recursos naturales, es favorecido
oon abundante abastecimiento de agua, y está bien preparado
para la industria del carbón blanco; de aquí que tenga una
brillante perspectiva. Al presente, difícilmente se encuentra un
pueblo en toda la extensión del Imperio que no se alumbre
con la luz blanca de la electricidad. No obstante, fué sola-
mente en 1878 cuando la primera luz eléctrica fué encendida.
Después de la guerra chino-japonesa (1894-5), la industria
eléctrica recibió un fuerte impulso, pero su fundamento sólido
no fué colocado sino hasta después de la guerra ruso-japonesa
de 1904-5, cuando una comisión especial del Gobierno comple-
tó una investigación de los recursos nacionales de fuerza hi-
dráulica, y entonces fueron dados importantes pasos hacia la
electrificación de todas las industrias progresistas.
En 1915, la Inawashiro Water Power Co. logró transmi-
tir 115,000 volts por una distancia de 150 millas, lo que, para
entonces significaba el tercer lugar en el récord mundial. A
fines de 1931 las lámparas eléctricas registradas ascendieron
a 36.839,607, mientras la capacidad total de la fuerza genera-
dora era de 3.188,000 kilowatts.
EDUCACION
Fué desde el Gobierno de Meiji cuando la educación recibió
realmente seria atención. El Emperador Meiji, atento a la
80

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.97)
importancia de la educación, declaró en uno de sus edictos:
"De aquí en adelante no debe haber ni una sola familia anal-
fabeta en una población, ni una sola persona iletrada en una
familia en todo nuestro reino." Tal fué el ideal de la educa-
ción popular, y el Gobierno ha venido desde entonces empe-
ñándose en cumplir dicho edicto imperial.
Los problemas de la educación de las mujeres y de la edu-
cación técnica empezaron a ser seriamente estudiados hacia el
tiempo de la guerra ruso-japonesa, y la próxima cuestión a re-
solver fué la democratización de los órganos educativos.
En el pasado, el Gobierno se había encargado casi exelu-
sivamente de atender a las escuelas y colegios superiores; pero
debido al notable progreso logrado por muchas escuelas pri-
vadas, el Gobierno fué persuadido a reconocer para las más
prominentes de ellas el mismo estado legal de que gozaban las
mejores instituciones del Gobierno. En 1929 existían 42 uni-
versidades, 259 colegios de distintas clases, 2.481 escuelas -
cundarias y 25,626 primarias.
("Todo", 1933.)
3O

=== Page 362 === (confidence 1.00)
EL CASTILLO DE OSAKA

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.99)
La Medicina y la Sanidad
en el Japón
La medicina fué un canal conveniente, por decirlo así, por
el cual la civilissción occidental desaguaba primeramente 
esta tierra de aislamiento, impuesto por sí, y los estudiantes
de medicina figuraron entre los primeros que contemplaron
la luz de la cultura occidental, reluciente en el lejano horizon-
te. Hay que recordar que durante el régimen de Tokugawa,
que duró más de dos siglos, tanto el cristianismo como la eo-
municación internacional estaban prohibidos, y ningún libro
extranjero, menos aquellos de la ciencia médica, fué admitido
dentro de las playas japonesas. Así, pues, los misioneros cris-
tianos fueron al Japón bajo capa de doctores, y muchos jóve-
nes ambiciosos de estudios occidentales se dedicaron a la pro-
fesión de medicina. Por tanto, como la avanzada medicina es,
probablemente, de todas las ciencias occidentales una de las
más adelantadas en el Japón, muchos de sus ardientes culti-
vadores han alcanzado la fama mundial, sin que esto signifi-
que que no haya habido hombres ilustres en otros ramos de la
ciencia, como e universalmente sabido.
Las estadísticas relativas a 1930 arrojaron las cifras si-
31

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.99)
guientes: 65,746 facultativos y 2,128 hospitales, inclusive los
de caridad, mantenidos ya por el Gobierno, ya por donaciones
particulares.
La sanidad y administración del servicio de salubridad es-
tán bajo el directo control del Departamento Sanitario del Mi-
nisterio del Interior, al que compete todo cuanto pertenezca a
la higiene pública.
TOKIO, CAPITAL DEL IMPERIO
El primero de octubre de 1932 nació el "Gran Tokio" con
einco millones de habitantes, como resultado de la incorpora-
eión de muehos municipios y distritos suburbanos, de donde
más de 800,000 personas venían diariamente a Tokio para ga-
narse la vida. El gran terremoto y el incendio de 1923 destru-
yeron la mejor parte de la eapital, pero esta catástrofe resultó
benéfica, por otra parte, puesto que de ella nació la nueva
eapital. Hubo algo heroico en el enérgico esfuerzo desplegado
per el Gobierno y los ciudadanos para efectuar esta colosal
reconstrucción.
Con respecto a la población, el Tokio de hoy puede jactarse
de ser la segunda ciudad del mundo, como lo demuestra el si-
guiente cuadro:
Ciadad
Población
Aree
Densidad
Kms.
Kms.
Cde.
Cda
Nueva York.
.6.930.446
774,41
8,949
Tokio.
4.970,839
552,60
8,995
Londres (Condado).
.4.396,821
303,91
14,512
Berlin
4.333,000
878,33
4,933
Chicago.
3.376,438
499,31
6,761
París
2.871,039
78,02
36,798
32

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.98)
Con la terminación de la gigantesea obra de reeemstrucciém,
Tokio ha logrado un maravilleso desarrelle eomo the metré
poli moderna.
Numerosas, amplias y bien pavimertadas avenidae y
lles, adecuadamente provistas de toda clase de medios de rá-
pido tránsito, magníficos edificios de oficinas y negocios han
sido construídos.
El sector de negocios conocido con el nombre de Marunou-
chi, en la vecindad del Palacio Imperial, es notablemente euro-
peo, y un edificio llamado "Maru-buil", que se encuentra fren-
te a la Estación Tokio—tomándola como centro, Tokio mi-
de 10 millas de radio—, contiene una población móvil de
más de 10,000 personas. Sobre el río Sumida, que corre por la
ciudad, se levantan muchos magníficos puentes construídos
después del terremoto, siendo algunos de ellos considerados
como triunfos de la ingeniería y orgullo de los ingenieros ja-
poneses.
En cuanto a las facilidades de transporte, el Gobierno man-
tiene una línea de carros eléctricos de circunvalación, además
de las líneas eléctricas de la Municipalidad y de las compa-
ñías privadas. El Gobierno controla una red total de 96 kiló-
metros, y las 13 empresas particulares manejan 200 kilómetros.
Estas líneas, junto con las de tranvías municipales y las líneas
de ómnibus de motor, transportan más de mil millones de pa-
sajeros anualmente. Hay también unos 8,000 taxi-cabs que
conducen no menos de 200,000 pasajeros por día.
Los tranvías municipales transportan cerca de un millón
de pasajeros diariamente, sobre un total de 345 kilómetros de
líneas. La Municipalidad es dueña de 660 carros de motor, y
sus líneas abarcan 130 kilómetros. Además, existen 52 compa-
3s

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.92)
ñías de ómnibus, que poseen un total de 1,000 carros, operan-
do sobre 680 kilómetros de longitud. En adición al tráfico su-
perficial, hay en construcción una vía subterránea, y ya seis
kilómetros están en servicio.
(“Todo", 1933.)
3.

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.99)
El Japón no Provoca
la Guerra
De poco tiempo acá, los cables de Moscú han estado espar-
ciendo persistentemente el anuncio de una inminente guerra
entre el Japón y la Rusia Soviética, excitando así, natural-
mente, la curiosidad del mundo, y sincrónicamente molestando
al Japón. ¿Por qué tanta alarma, señores soviéticos! El Ja-
pón no abriga ninguna otra mira que el mantenimiento de la
paz en Oriente, y en cuanto a sus autoridades militares, no tie-
nen ningún propósito de romper hostilidades contra Rusia.
Debieran entender los alarmados señores bolcheviques que,
desde el punto de vista estratégico, si el Japón hubiera tenido
la intención de hacer la guerra a Rusia, habría ventajosamen-
te aprovechado la oportunidad que se le presentó cuando la
Unión Soviética no había completado su preparación bélica en
el Extremo Oriente, y que habría desperdiciado esa preciosa
ocasión, esperando inútilmente la reanudación de relaciones
diplomáticas entre los Estados Unidos y Rusia y la termina-
ción del plan quinquenal de este último país, puesto que mien-
tras más tiempo pasare más difícil se haría la situación militar.
Que el Japón mantiene 130,000 soldados en Manchuria, 
35

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.98)
gún el decir de Vassilly Blueher, eomandante del Ejército ruse
del Lejano Oriente, es absolutamente absurdo, y falso de tode
falsedad! El total del ejército permanente del Japón no as-
ciende a más de 200,000 hombres, y las fuerzas que el Japón
ha enviado a Manchuria apenas llegan a tres divisiones, las
que estando absolutamente en pie de paz, pues ninguna arma
ha sido movilizada, tienen que dejar en disponibilidad algunas
gentes de reserva.
Al contrario, la Rusia Soviética, aumentando incesantemen.
te sus tropas, está haciendo grandes preparativos bélicos en
los puntos estratégicos a lo largo de la frontera manchuriana.
constituyendo así una constante amenaza para el Japón.
De lo expuesto se desprende que el Japón, descuidando oca-
siones ventajosas para atacar a Rusia, ha permanecido indi-
ferente ante la tan amenazadora actitud de la Unión Soviéti-
, sólo porque quería procurar, a todo trance, la preservación
de la paz en el Oriente; pero no escapa al sentido común del
mundo entero, el hecho de que, dada la situación geográfica
de entrambas naciones, y considerando las facilidades de co-
municación de ambos países, el Japón supera a Rusia en su
fuerza combativa, y, por ende, no tiene nada que temer del
poderío militar de la U. R. S. S. ni en el presente ni en el futuro.
Es cierto que los manchurianos, y no los japoneses, están
haciendo esfuerzos para construir ferrocarriles y caminos en
Manchuria, pero esto se hace de acuerdo con el Programa Cons-
tructivo del nuevo Estado, para garantizar la paz y el orden y
fomentar el desarrollo económico de esa nación. Como es sa-
bido, Manehuria ocupa un vasto territorio que carece de me-
dios de comunicación y abunda en bandoleros. Con todo, es
poca la fuerza que se dediea al mantenimiento de la paz; pues
l bandidos suelen huír, cuando se les persigue, hacia la línea
30

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.98)
fronteriza de difieil comunicsción, como pasó con la amerge
experieneia de las expediciones punitivas centra Ma Chanshan,
el famoso bandido político.
De igual manera se explica el establecimiento de acródre
mos, pues donde la comunicación terrestre es difícil, cemo 
la actualidad en Manchuria, no hay más que recurrir a las
rutas aéreas.
En fin, el recién nacido Estado de Manehukuo está ha-
ciendo vigorosos esfuerzos para su desenvolvimiento social-
económico, y el Japón le brinda su ayuda moral y material.
Esfuerzos éstos que, desgraciadamente, la Unión Soviética con-
sidera como un cuadro de color desconcertante, llamándolos
"preparativos bélicos".
Manchuria colinda con Rusia, cuya línea divisoria se ex-
tiende en 2,481 kilómetros, y es natural e inevitable que oou-
rran con relativa frecuencia los incidentes internacionales en
aquella región fronteriza. En el lado ruso, a lo largo de la
línea divisoria, están densamente situadas las guardias poli-
cíacas (G. P. U.), pero en la línea del Manchukuo sólo en los
lugares importantes, tales como Manchuoli, Sanho, Heiho,
Suifenho, etcétera, hay pocas fuerzas de policía, de modo que
es muy fácil y posible también, que los rusos cometan actos
delictuosos. Para citar un ejemplo: en las cercanías de Tong-
ning, ciudad fronteriza de Kirín, 60 personas fueron muertas
por soldados rusos (G. P. U.) en un año, sin motivos justifi-
cados.
El Ferrocarril del Norte (Ferrocarril del Este Chino) ha
sido el único interés económico de Rusia en Manchuria, y le ha
servido de base potente para propagar el comunismo; pero de-
37

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.99)
de que se estableció el Estado: independiente del Manekukno,
la Unión Soviética empezó a mostrarse muy abrumada con la
influencia japonesa, y aprovechando la confusión se apropió y
llevó a su territorio las 90 mejores locomotoras y 3,600 carros
de pasajeros y carga. Este ferrocarril ha sido, desde el princi-
pio, un órgano comercial de transporte, bajo la administración
de Rusia y China (Manchukuo después), y de ahí que surjan
las múltiples dificultades que sólo con la buena voluntad y
honestidad de los dos países pueden ser resueltas.
Como quiera que dicho ferrocarril ha disminuído mucho en
 valor económico y político, desde que se han construído o
proyectado otras líneas más importantes o costeables, Rusia
comprendió que, a la larga, aquél se quedaría anulado en su
importancia, y ofreció al Japón la venta del interés que le co-
rresponde.
Los señores rusos se quejan de que el Japón ha ignorado
sus dos ofertas de vender su interés en el Ferrocarril del Nor-
te de Manchuria y de firmar un pacto de no agresión, respec-
tivamente. La primera proposición corresponde más bien a
Manchukuo, y las negociaciones seguirán en Tokio, con los
buenos oficios del Japón. En cuanto a la segunda, el Japón la
estimó inoportuna porque no encontraba la suficiente sinceri-
dad en el trato internacional de Rusia; hay que decir esto con
franqueza, pues tratándose de un país comunista que se pro-
pone convertir el mundo entero en rojo, era necesario proceder
con mucho tino. Y hablando también con franqueza, si los se-
ñores bolcheviques no desean la agresión por la fuerza, deben
dar el ejemplo suprimiendo su conocida agresión de propagan-
da roja.
Tal es, a grandes rasgos, la reseña de varios aspectos de
fricción triangular que existen entre el Japón, Manchukuo y
38

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.98)
Eusia Sovistiea, pero puede esegurer que no hay ningía me-
tivo suficientemente grave que justifique sctualmente uns cen.
tienda armada entre les des Estades.
La Unión Soviética, entregándose al infundado temor y ab-
surda ilusión de la invasión de su territorio por el ejército ja-
ponés, está apresurándose a aumentar sus tropas en el Oriente,
y continúa enviando para Siberia aeroplanos, tanques, caño-
nes y otros materiales de guerra.
La fuerza militar que Rusia tiene actualmente en Siberia,
desde el lago Baíkal hacia el Este, sube a más de 10 divisione,
es decir, dos veces más en tropas y cinco o seis veces más en
aviones, tanques, etc., que los que tenía antes del nacimiento
de Manchukuo. Además, como se ha dicho antes, en Manchouli,
en el lado opuesto de Heiho, en las cercanías del confluente
del Amur y el Sungari, y en la frontera Este de Kirín, Rusia
ha fortificado muchas fuertes posiciones permanentes, y no
contenta aún con todo eso, está alardeando de estar lista para
aplastar al Japón en cualquier momento.
Sin embargo, como el Japón es amante de la paz, no se
atreverá a invadir ningún territorio extranjero ni apelará a
la fuerza por esas cuestiones reparables por la razón y la jus-
ticia internacionales; pero si hay algún o algunos poderes que
pretendan perturbar la paz del Lejano Oriente y perjudicar
los intereses del Japón o impedir la saludable obra construe-
tiva del Manchukuo, será entonces cuando el Japón se levante
con decisión y cumpla con su misión de defender la paz.
("Excélsior", 23 de febrero de 1934.)
39

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.99)
La Posición del Japón
en el Oriente
Le alarma nacida del recelo, ha motivado una vez más que
la potencias del mundo levanten un precipitado somatén con.
tra la reciente advertencia informal del Japón, acerca de su
paladina política de mantener la paz y la tranquilidad en el
Oriente, particularmente por lo que toca a China. La fran-
queza es a menudo erróneamente interpretada como una ame-
naza, y el clamor histérico de objeción de las principales na-
ciones, ha causado más molestias al Nipón que la preconcebi-
da imaginación de los excitados poderes.
"El Japón desea sinceramente la integridad, unificación y
restablecimiento de China. El Japón se siente responsable de
la conservación de la paz en el Oriente, y comparte la respon-
sabilidad en el mantenimiento del orden en China, y, por en-
de, quiere suprimir su movimiento antijaponés y eliminar su
táctica tradicional de oponer una potencia contra otra. La
cooperación a China de otras naciones, ya sea bajo el pretexto
de auxilios técnicos o financieros, se convierte, a la postre, en
resultados políticos, inerrablemente.
40

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.98)
"El Japón no se opone a que otras potencias, individual-
mente, negocien con China una ayuda en el campo de la eco-
nomía y del comercio, siempre que no perturben la paz y la
conservación del orden en el Asia."
Nada más justa y noble la declaración ésta!
Un sereno e imparcial análisis del texto en cuestión, no re
velará nada que pudiera suscitar la inquietud, ni de parte de
China misma, ni de la de las naciones interesadas.
En efecto, la declaración hecha por el Jefe del Departa-
mento de Informaciones del Ministro de Negocios Extran-
jeros de Tokio, el 17 de abril próximo pasado, era una respues-
ta a las preguntas de los corresponsales extranjeros sobre el
porqué el Japón se oponía a la ayuda financiera que la Liga
de las Naciones brindaba a China. Evidentemente, la respues-
ta fué propalada como una nota directa sin ninguna referencia
al origen de la observación, lo que naturalmente alteró su signi.
fícado en su más alto grado.
El 27 de abril, el señor Koki Hirota, Ministro de Asuntos
Extranjeros del Japón, hizo una formal declaración, relativa
a la política nipona en China, para esclarecer la reacción ad-
versa de las potencias, diciendo que:
"El particular interés del Japón en China se debe a u
proximidad a ese país, y, en beneficio del mundo en general,
desea el Japón ayudar a China en el esfuerzo de unificar su
país y promover su prosperidad. El Nipón no tiene ninguna
intención de alterar la política de la "puerta abierta", ni de
intervenir en las relaciones comerciales de otras naciones eon
China. No hay ningún designic por parte del Japón de mono-
polizar el comercio con China, ni hay nada semejante a la Doc-
trina Monroe que se quiera adoptar en el Oriente; pero que
4

=== Page 374 === (confidence 1.00)
existen evidencias de una tendencia de segregar las relaciones
sinoniponesas, eon el apoyo militar y financiero que ofrecen
otras naciones a China, so color de ayuda económica.
"El Tratado de las Nueve Potencias será observado como
hasta ahora, y el Japón no tiene ninguna mira ulterior de vio-
lar o abrogar este pacto.
"Es el deseo sincero del Gobierno japonés sostener y ayu-
dar a otras potencias, para tomar parte en las actividades co-
merciales de China."
Se dice que el referido Ministro Hirota, durante la conver-
sación con el Embajador británico, contestando a las preguntas
de este último, "quién determinaría si la compra de materiales
de guerra por China a otros países, fuera detrimental a la paz
del Oriente", dijo que solamente podía depender de la concien-
cia de las naciones que surtan las armas a China, y que el Ja-
pón no podía sentarse indiferente y contemplar la casa vecina
que se quema.
Aunque la sincera intención del Japón hacia China se des-
cubra como emanada de los motivos justificables, las potencias
que no quieren despertarse de la intoxicación de la idea de
superioridad de la raza blanca, no la acogerán con buena gana,
y desearían desairar y aplastar de una vez por todas al Ja-
pón, y remover el obstáculo para adquirir privilegios e intere-
ses en el Lejano Oriente. Aprovechando tales circunstancias,
China también se lanzará a la contrapropaganda del Japón.
La oposición japonesa a la ayuda de China por las nacio-
nes, significa que el Nipón no puede tolerar el que, bajo capa
de la ayuda económica, pretendan perturbar la paz interior de
42

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.99)
Chins e impedir sus relaciones amistosas con el Japón. Supo
niéndose que el Japón ofreciera semejante apoyo a Cuba, a
Centroamérica o a la India, 1qué dirian los Estados Unidos é
Inglaterra! Se ha hecho, pues, la reciente adverteneia besada
en los hechos, es decir, el Japón posee positivas pruebas de
que ciertas potencias están interesadas en sembrar las semillas
de discordia en China.
La Liga de las Naciones, so preterto de la paz universal,
ha enviado al doctor Ludwig Rajchman a China, pero es de
dominio público que este sujeto es antijaponés de remate, y
que durante el incidente de Shanghai, se dedicaba a hacer la
propaganda antijaponesa por radio. Si la Liga desea verda-
deramente la paz duradera en todo el mundo, por qué manda
esta clase de gente a China! Si no es para molestar y contra-
riar al Japón, por qué!
Yosuke Matsuoka, con su característica franqueza, atribu-
ye la presente situación caótica que prevalece en China, a la
culpa de la Liga de Naciones y de los fabricantes americanos
de aeroplanos, así como también de los ex militares yanquis
(quizás no lo saben todos los americanos). Dice que el hecho
de que China es la vecina inmediata del Japón, presenta el
problema de altísima importancia para el bienestar del Orien-
te, y que cuando quiera que una nación europea o americana
explota a China, el mundo se calla; pero, al contrario, cuando
el Japón se mueve por el interés de China o del Oriente en ge-
neral, las naciones se horrorizan y levantan una voz de ob-
jeción.
Hay que ser equitativo al juzgar las acciones de otros paí-
ses, y apreciar con imparcialidad y nobleza la actitud de los
43

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.98)
buenos vecinos en todas las instancias. Coneluiré este articale
eon eitar la sugestión que hizo, hace poco, el editorial de "New
York Evening Post", de que la política de "manos fuera" se
ría en beneficio de la pas mundial.
("Excélsior", 30 de mayo de 1934.)
44

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.99)
El Japón Moderno
LA MENTE JAPONESA
No hay ninguna diferencia fundamental en la naturaleza
humana, aun entre las distintas razas. Las más de las aparen-
tes desemejanzas son resultados de siglos de educación y cos-
tumbres. Se puede llamar esto la civilización o herencia social,
como quieran los lectores. Ahora bien, una de las diferencias
básicas entre la civilización japonesa y la occidental es, en mi
opinión, la actitud hacia la armonía. Los occidentales tienen
el hábito de pensar en la personalidad desde el punto de vista
individual. La idea de la personalidad fué desarrollada en
los países anglosajones. La intrépida y resuelta personalidad
de individuos es la base de la democracia, y es de desear que
esta idea continúe desarrollándose para el bien del progreso del
mundo. Mas la civilización japonesa no se basa en ese con-
cepto. La mira fundamental que penetra por la estructura so-
cial del Japón es la armonía. Este innato amor de armonía
es la raíz de todos en el Japón. No es el mero colectivismo;
no es la mera solidaridad; es tanto sentimental como intelec-
tual. No pensamos en la libertad individual ni en la persona-
45

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.99)
lidad, sino en la armonía entre uno mismo y los otros alrede-
dor de sí. La armonía del Universo es la meta sublime. El sí
mismo tiene relativa importancia sólo cuando atrae la armo-
nía del sistema de la familia, del pueblo, del Estado y de todo
el Universo. Este sentido de armonía es el fundamento de la
civilización japonesa. Por la armonía sacrificamos nuestra
individualidad. Tiene la ventaja de guardar delante nuestros
ojos la afinidad de nosotros mismos con la gran organización
del mundo circundante. Comparado con el sublime plan del
Universo entero, nuestro pequeño mismo es infinitesimal.
EL OPTIMISMO JAPONES
La totalidad de Asia es sumariamente llamada el Oriente,
y sus pueblos orientales. Pero cuántas diferencias entre esos
llamados orientales! En verdad, no hay un solo pensamiento
oriental, sino varios. En cierto punto, los japoneses son más
bien americanos o franceses que los pueblos de India. La his-
toria, la geografía y la costumbre nacional se han combinado
para dar al pueblo japonés algunas idiosincrasias que son di-
ferentes de las de sus hermanos orientales.
Con todo nuestro amor de abstracción, no hemos produ-
cido grandes sistemas de filosofía como en China, ni un siste-
ma sublime de religión como en India, y ¿por qué? Simple-
mente porque el pensamiento japonés no podía separar el pen-
samiento metafísico de la conducta actual. Wang Yang-Ming
es un filósofo chino, pero tiene mayor número de discípulos
en el Japón que en China. Su doctrina entera de filosofía era
"saber es actuar", y se acomodó extremadamente bien con la
mentalidad japonesa. La perspectiva japonesa de vida se basa
46

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.99)
en la teoría de conducta y no en la de existencia. Los japoneses
son pragmatistas, y esto hace a los japoneses más bien con-
servadores en expresión.
Temen de no poder cumplir con sus palabras. Eso ha im-
pedido a los japoneses en los asuntos parlamentarios. "El
hablar" ha acabado con gran número de hombres públicos, y
la elocuencia ha florecido raras veces en la política. Esta di-
ferencia de expresión ha estado contra los japoneses en la
amistad internacional. Eso ha dado a los extraños una des-
agradable impresión de reserva.
Los quince siglos de enseñanza budista no han podido con-
vertir a los japoneses en su sublime pesimismo. Por natu-
raleza, somos los japoneses estrepitosamente optimistas. Los
siglos de entrenamiento para ocultar nuestro sentimiento, nos
han dado la máscara de aparente calma, pero debajo de eso
hay un fuerte optimismo que undula toda nuestra vida. Sete-
cientos años de feudalismo fueron una experiencia triste y
sombría para la mayoría del pueblo y las marcas están todavía
prevalecientes. Pero setenta años de emancipación han traído
a flote la nota dominante de optimismo.
Si el Occidente pudiera penetrarse por la aparente frialdad
de la máscara oriental al interior paraje sagrado, descubriría
a su asombro que el pensamiento japonés es maravillosamente
alegre y práctico. El Japón se coloca entre Asia y América, y
así es su pensamiento.
LAS MUJERES MODERNAS DEL JAPON
Es una nota común la de que la mujer japonesa, en quien
la virtud del imperio sobre sí mismo está hondamente planta-
47

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.99)
da, se ha acostumbrado a ocultar sus sentimientos tan estoica-
mente, que su expresión facial da muy a menudo a su herma-
na del Occidente una impresión de ser poco natural, misteriosa
o idiota. El largo entrenamiento basado en el sistema de fa-
milia, ha enseñado a la mujer japonesa a hacer y decir cosas
con moderación. Bajo la influencia de la cultura occidental,
sin embargo, las mujeres de hoy día demuestran, como regla
general, la franqueza y la jovialidad que hubieran sido cho-
cantes a aquellas de hace una generación. En pocos países el
modo nativo y el extranjero de vivir son combinados para un
todo más armonioso como en el Japón del presente. No es sino
natural, por eso, que las mujeres japonesas hubieran desper-
tado de su impasibilidad de siglos.
Las más ilustradas de las japonesas de hoy han venido a
emanciparse. Las menos cultas aceptan las condiciones del
pasado, o si no, ciegamente, imitando los gestos superficiales
de emancipación, llegan a ser tan verdaderas esclavas de la
nueva moda como sus madres fueron del viejo sistema, e in-
cidentalmente adquieren el epíteto de "la mujer moderna".
De todos modos, el nivel intelectual de la mujer japonesa ha
sido considerablemente elevado de poco tiempo acá.
Uno de los rasgos más salientes de esta emancipación es
el que ofrecen las mujeres casadas, que se han emancipado de
la especie de esclavitud en que sus infortunadas mayores se
encontraban con anterioridad. Particularmente difícil fué la
faena a que estaban condenadas las amas de familias ricas.
Hay ahora algunas damas que, a la manera de sus hermanas
del Occidente, descansan de la cocina ocasionalmente y salen
al restaurante por sus comidas, no obstante que es un hecho
innegable que la mujer más ocupada en el Japón es aún, como
en el pasado, el ama de la casa.
48

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.99)
Otro notable fenómeno de reciente fecha ne el Japón, es el
aumento en el número de mujeres casadas despiertas a la ne-
cesidad de trabajar junto con sus maridos para ganar la vida.
No es exageración que se diga que mientras la población mas-
culina tiene creciente dificultad en encontrar trabajo, la esfe-
ra de actividad para mujeres se hace más extensa.
La mujer japonesa no es la reina suprema como su seme-
jante en el Occidente, pero esto no importa, pues al fin y al
cabo la mujer es la mujer en todas partes. Pudiera parecer
notablemente extraordinario que la mujer japonesa haya su-
frido tan largo tiempo el papel de subordinada, postulándose
siempre en el último término. Pero en el Oriente, como en el
Occidente, la madre de un gran hombre ha sido siempre una
mujer poseída de la virtud de modestia y humildad.
Las heroínas jóvenes en los cuentos de todos los países, son
generalmente descritas como demasiado listas en las lides de
amor. Aunque en el Japón los hombres y mujeres solteros no
se asocian en la misma manera como se hace en el Occidente,
hay a veces mujeres jóvenes que, por carecer de guía propia,
son condenadas a miserables vidas. Otra cosa que se debe ad-
mitir es que las estudiantas japonesas pueden desafiar la com-
paración con sus colegas del Occidente, de tener un excelente
conocimiento de las materias de estudio, notándose, además,
la marcada mejora de su físico. Son definitivamente más sa-
nas y más fuertes que las de la vieja generación, y están equi-
pándose para triunfar en cualquiera esfera en que se las co-
loque.
Debo añadir que esas ultramodernas que persiguen las úl-
timas novedades, representan simplemente una fase pasajera
en la historia de la mujer japonesa. Hoy día hay cierta ten-
dencia entre las mujeres jóvenes para hacer objeto de admi-
49

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.97)
ración las cosas europeas. Jóvenes japonesas vestidas a la eu-
ropea se encuentran constantemente en nuestras grandes ciu-
dades, a pesar de que las occidentales son generalmente de opi
nión de que mis compatriotas se ven mucho mejor en su her-
moso kimono lleno de colorido. Pero es simplemente porque
el vestido europeo es más cómodo para la vida cotidiana y
mejor para usos higiénicos. La adaptación de los trajes euro-
peos por las japonesas no es, por ningún motivo, universal.
Hay, en verdad, un puñado de mujeres que se sienten comple-
tamente occidentalizadas y dispuestas a descartar para siem-
pre su vestido nativo.
En una palabra, las mujeres japonesas quieren ser moder-
nas, ilustradas, vigorosas, y al mismo tiempo quieren retener
aus antiguas características de gentileza y afección. Su edu
cación moderna les enseña muchas cosas nuevas, pero esas co-
sas nuevas parecen anublar y obscurecer las antiguas. Lo que
e desea es una educación que enseñe a fundir el nuevo cono-
cimiento con las cualidades viejas, para que tengamos hijas
inteligentes y capaces, esposas que realmente comprendan y
hagan felices a sus maridos, y madres que sepan guiar, amar
y servir a sus hijos.
("El Hogar", 12 de septiembre de 1934.)
5o

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.99)
La Próxima Guerra
Rusojaponesa
¿Es tan inminente una guerra rusojaponesa como lo ase-
guran las alarmautes y exageradas noticias periodísticas de
origen moscovita? Nadie puede decirlo a ciencia cierta; pero
he aquí lo que el "Journal de Genéve", de reciente fecha, dice.
comentando la diplomacia "de un tiro dos pájaros" de Litvi-
noíf, comisario ruso de asuntos extranjeros:
"Las relaciones rusojaponesas presentan cierta tensión, y
la Unión Soviética asume una actitud provocativa e imperti-
nente, apresurándose a completar sus preparativos bélicos con-
tra el Japón; es muy natural, por tanto, que este último país,
frente a tal situación, se aliste para cualquiera emergencia.
A pesar de semejante estado de cosas, aparentemente peligro-
so, las actuales condiciones económicas y financieras del Ja-
pón no le permiten apelar a las armas, y la URSS, por su par-
te, está afanándose en mantener la paz por el momento. Corre
la voz de que el famoso comisario Litvinoff tiene el designio
de hacer con el Japón un arreglo "de dar y tomar", en virtud
del cual Rusia tendrá libertad de acción en Shin Kiang, Af-
51

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.99)
ganistán, Persia e India, reconociendo, en cambio, la "mano
libre" del Japón en el Asia Oriental. Mas la Rusia Soviética
tiene, por otro lado, dos importantes asuntos pendientes: in-
gresar a la Liga de las Naciones y firmar el convenio de Lo-
carno Oriental, y para realizar sus proyectos necesita el apoyo
de Inglaterra, de modo que ese trueque de condiciones entre
el Japón y Rusia sólo puede materializarse sacrificando el sen-
timiento inglés, exponiéndose, por tanto, a que empeoren las
relaciones anglorrusas. Así es que Litvinoff dejará en statu
quo la tirantez de relaciones que existe actualmente entre el
Japón y la Rusia Soviética, mientras se logra lo que se quiere
conseguir en Ginebra."
Sea lo que fuere, es un hecho muy bien conocido que la tác-
tica usual de Rusia consiste en hacer verdaderos títeres de las
naciones con su diplomacia de dos caras, pues esa diplomacia
no es más que el camouflage de la política roja internacional.
aunque el Gobierno de la Unión Soviética ostente el estandar-
te del pacifismo internacional y sostenga que no abriga pro-
pósitos agresivos. Qué ironía! Mientras aquella nación se
entrega por entero a intensificar sus preparativos militares.
no se ha olvidado de proponer la supresión completa de los
armamentos, en la Conferencia del Desarme en Ginebra!
Ahora bien, la nota básica de la política oriental de la Ru-
sia Soviética es la idea de Lenín, expuesta en estos términos:
"Para la cabal realización del comunismo, se necesita que el
mundo entero se convierta en comunista, pues una nación co-
munista no puede desarrollarse si está sitiada por países ca-
pitalistas", y "la suerte de la comunización o sovietización de-
be decidirse en el Oriente".
Conforme a esta política fundamental, la Unión Soviética
52

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.99)
emprendió la tarea de "enrojecer" a sus vecinos europeos; pe-
ro encontrándose para ello con múltiples obstáculos, resolvió
canbiar el blanco para el ataque, del Occidente al Oriente, e
implantó su política consistente en minar e inutilizar las bases
económicas de las Potencias en los países coloniales del Orien-
te, so pretexto de emancipar a las razas oprimidas, política que
abre el camino al éxito del comunismo.
Para cumplir esta política, Rusia se vale de dos órganos,
uno legal y otro ilegal; el Gobierno de la URSS y el Partido
Internacional Comunista. Este último se dedica a enrojecer al
murdo y a la construcción de una sociedad internacional co-
munista, mientras el primero procura aparecer siempre ino-
cente, pacifista y no agresivo.
Después del incidente de Manchuria, y frente al poderío
militir del Japón, Rusia le propuso un tratado de no agresión,
querendo así demostrar que no tenía ninguna otra mira que
la "anistad de buen vecino", no obstante que estaba, desde an-
tes, laciendo empeñosamente preparativos bélicos al por ma-
yor. La renovación de sus relaciones diplomáticas con los Es-
tados Unidos, no tuvo más objeto que aprovecharlas para el
desarollo de su política oriental en contra del Japón.
Al llevarse a cabo en Rusia el primer plan quinquenal, ini-
ciad( en 1928, la tierra virgen de Siberia, llena de inagotables
recu'sos naturales, se convirtió en una región de franco des-
envdvimiento. El primer paso para la explotación de Siberia
fué a construcción del gran ferrocarril de 1,400 kilómetros a
lo lago de las fronteras de la Mongolia Exterior y de Shin
Kiaig, que comunica Turquestán con el corazón de la misma
Sibria. Para el desarrollo económico y el perfeccionamiento
de os preparativos militares en aquella extensísmia comarca,
se la emprendido la obra de mejorar el ferrocarril transibe-
53

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.99)
riano y de construir una vía paralela. Así es que, aunque el
plan quinquenal redujo al pueblo ruso al último grado de mi-
seria, ha permitido un notable progreso en el desarrollo de los
planes bélicos. De este modo, las autoridades de la Unión So-
viética se jactan de haber cumplido el propio plan en cuatro
años, después de haber desplegado sus mayores esfuerzos;
empeñándose ahora en llevar adelante el cumplimiento del se-
gundo plan quinquenal. Este segundo plan tiene también su
"centro de gravedad" en la industria pesada y, preferelte-
mente, en la región del Extremo Oriente.
La oposición a la guerra imperialista y la emanciparión
de los pueblos oprimidos han sido la aparente bandera ce la
URSS, y no se le ha escapado ninguna oportunidad para ata-
car a los países capitalistas y estorbar su desenvolvimient).
China, con sus cuatrocientos millones de habitantes qu: lle-
van una vida de esclavos, sujetos a la explotación consante
de los líderes militares, es el mayor y el más convenient: ob-
jetivo de la propaganda y de la acción del comunismo. Elejér-
cito rojo, en la China sovietizada, contaba el año pasado
con 400,000 hombres, y la creciente influencia bolchevique en
China constituye una seria amenaza no solamente para la paz
del Oriente, sino para la del mundo en general.
El Ferrocarril del Este Chino es la base principal del mo-
vimiento comunista, pues una buena parte de sus empleidos
está organizada militarmente y se encarga de hacer la pripa-
ganda roja, al mismo tiempo que fomenta los frecuentes aen-
tados terroristas cometidos en el corazón de Manchuria, para
impedir la pacificación del Nuevo Estado. No faltan evicen-
cias de que las repetidas incursiones de los bandidos chinos en
Manchuria, sobre todo tratándose de ataques contra los re-
nes de pasajeros, son dirigidas por esos agentes soviéticos.
54

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.99)
Volviendo a los preparativos bélicos de la Rusia Soviética,
es conveniente exhibir algunas cifras: contra 69 divisiones de
infantería, 700 aeroplanos y 100 tanques que tenía en 1927,
tenía ya en 1933, 76 divisiones de infantería, 2,500 avio-
nes, 2,000 tanques, y sólo en la región del Extremo Oriente
cuenta, por lo menos, 9 divisiones de infantería, 2 divisiones
de caballería, 500 aviones y 500 tanques. Además, ha ensan-
chado los aeródromos, dotándolos con poderosas piezas de
bombardeo de 7 toneladas. En las zonas contiguas a Man-
churia y en los puntos más importantes, se han establecido zo-
nas estratégicas permanentes, donde se pueden encontrar mu-
chos modernos fuertes y alambradas. En Vladivostock tam-
bién se están aprestando los rusos para cualquier eventualidad.
Todos estos preparativos se llevan a cabo con positivo empe-
ño, y ofrecen un extraño contraste con la actitud serena del
Japón.
En conclusión: la Unión Soviética no tiene por ahora la
fuerza suficiente para desafiar al Japón, y está, por ende, es-
quivando la guerra, a pesar de sus bravatas; pero en vista de
sus actividades militares en el Oriente, y de las continuas ma-
niobras clandestinas del Commintern, se puede afirmar que
no abandonará su política fundamental de "la dominación
oriental" y que seguirá siendo una eterna amenaza para la
paz del Oriente y del mundo entero.
Los motivos de este cambio de actitud de la URSS se atri-
buyen: 1º al éxito de la diplomacia de Litvinoff en Europa y
los Estados Unidos; 2º, a la errónea presunción de que en 1935
1936, el Japón y Manchuria se encontrarán en crisis económi-
ca y financiera; y 3º, al error de que, desprendiéndose Rusia
del Ferrocarril del Este Chino, se intensificarían las relaciones
del Japón y Manchuria y quedaría aislado el puerto de Vladi-
55

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.99)
vostock, aumentando así el peligro de una guerra rusojapone-
a, que no le conviene por ahora.
De lo anteriormente expuesto se puede deducir que los se-
ñores soviéticos han jugado, como siempre, con la diplomacia
de dos caras; es decir, ofreciendo la venta del Ferrocarril del
Este Chino, quisieron ganar tiempo para completar las manio-
. bras diplomáticas en Europa y Estados Unidos, mientras lle-
vaban a cabo sus preparativos militares en el Oriente.
("El Universal", 21 de septiembre de 1934.)
56

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.99)
Las Flores del Campo
de Batalla
Fué inmediatamente después del incidente de Shanghai.
Nuestra fuerza naval de desembarque, bajo el mando del Con-
traalmirante Uyematsu, estaba combatiendo desesperadamen-
te, en la mañana del 16 de febrero de 1932, cuando dos mu-
chachas vestidas de marineros se presentaron en el cuartel ge-
neral. Enfrente del comandante, estas muchachas empezaron
a hablar con muchísima seriedad.
—No podemos—dijeron ellas—quedarnos sentadas ociosa-
mente y contemplar con indiferencia a vuestros hombres que
luchan y sacrifican sus vidas por nuestro país. Como japono-
sas. sentimos que debemos hacer algo por nuestra parte.
"Hemos venido a pedirle a usted nos permita servir a nues-
tra patria en estas horas solemnes. Lo estimaríamos como un
gran privilegio, si se nos permitiera ayudar a usted y a sus
hombres de cualquier modo. Podemos cuando menos hacer la
limpieza, lavados y la cocina."
El Contraalmirante quedó asombrado de su solicitud.
—Muchas gracias por su bondad—dijo suavemente—. Us-
57

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.99)
tedes son realmente muy amables. Aunque aprecio infinita-
mente su bondadosa oferta, no puedo aceptarla, porque este 
un campo de batalla, ¿entienden ustedes! Se los agradezco,
pero no acepto.
Después de describirles los horrores del combate, el contra-
almirante les aconsejó volvieran a su casa. Pero apenas hubo
terminado, cuando las muchachas protestaron vigorosamente.
—No estamos atemorizadas de exponer nuestras vidas-—in-
sistieron—. Estamos dispuestas a morir, si es necesario. Nues-
tros padres nos han dado el permiso, y dijeron que estarían
orgullosos si nosotras hiciéramos algún servicio a nuestra
patria.
Quiénes eran estas muchachas? Eran hijas de comercian-
tes japoneses que vivían en Shanghai. Eran buenas amigas, y
lo curioso era que ambas se llamaban Nobuko. Estaban las
dos en el tercer año de la escuela superior de mujeres de
Sanghai, y tenían diez y siete años de edad.
El Contraalmirante Uyematsu quedó tan hondamente im-
presionado por su sinceridad. que no tuvo valor de rehusar su
petición.
Las muchachas fueron admitidas el mismo día, en el Cuar-
tel General de la Fuerza Naval de Desembarque, para hacer la
limpieza, la cocina y cualquier otra cosa. Algunas veces se
ofrecían a limpiar los uniformes de los oficiales de la Plana
Mayor. Trabajaban desde la temprana hora de la mañana
hasta muy tarde de la noche, y nada parecía cansarlas.
Un día, cuando el contraalmirante y su Estado Mayor es-
taban en una conferencia, se oyó tocar a la puerta.
—¿Quién es?—preguntó un oficial con voz de alerta.
Se abrió la puerta, presentando las dos caras inocentes.
58

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.98)
—Tíos—dijeron ellas—: ↓qué no quisieran tomar un poco
de caldo de omochi?-pasta de arroz.
Levantando sus ojos del mapa sobre la mesa, el comandan-
te y sus oficiales prorrumpieron en risas.
—¿ Qué ustedes saben hacer semejante cosa—preguntó uno
de ellos de chanza.
—Oh, nos costó mucho trabajo, pero ya está hecho. ¿Quie-
ren probarlo ahora?
—Magnífico, lo tomaremos en seguida.
Cuando el caldo fué traído, los bravos y robustos marinos,
haciendo muecas, lo engulleron, saboreándolo pausadamente, y
exclamando: " Qué bueno está!"
Las dos Nobuko llegaron a ser justamente llamadas "las
flores del campo de batalla", las únicas rosas en la fronda
verde.
Fueron amables con todo el mundo y tan vivas como un
día de primavera. Para ellas todas las gentes del cuartel ge-
neral, desde le Contraalmirante Uyematsu hasta los oficiales
inferiores, fueron simples "tíos" por cortesía. Algunas veces
se colgaban de los hombros de Su Excelencia y le preguntaban
si no quería tomar una taza de té.
—Sus tíos están muy agradecidos a ustedes—decía el Con-
traalmirante, paçando sus dedos en los sedosos cabellos de
ellas, como si fuesen sus propias hijas.
Una vez, uno de los oficiales les preguntó de burlas, si no
les parecía chistoso llamar a Su Excelencia el Contraalmirante
Uyematsu de tío.
—Les parecería raro a ustedes, los oficiales—replicaron—;
pero nos parecería igualmente chistoso el llamarlo Su Excelen-
cia. Además, nos sería muy difícil el distinguir a todos los
50

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.99)
señores de aquí, por sus grados, y también llamarlos por sus
respectivos nombres sería imposible para nosotras, pues no
podemos recordarlos a todos. Así es que hemos decidido lla-
mar a todos ustedes de "tíos".
Alguien les preguntó, un día, si no estaban asustadas por
el rugir de cañones y el estallar de granadas.
—Ni pizca—respondieron—. Para qué sirve estar asusta-
das? En caso de que el cuartel general de nuestra fuerza de
desembarque cayese, ya no habría ningún lugar seguro, en
Sanghai, para nosotras. Si tenemos que morir, moriremos con
nuestro tío Uyematsu. Eso es todo.
Se dice que el Contraalmirante Uyematsu afirmó que él
daría parte al Ministro de la Marina, de estas dos intrépidas
muchachas, a fin de que sus servicios fueran oficialmente re-
conocidos.
("La Fragancia de la Flor del Cerezo", 1934.)
60

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.99)
El Japón y el Tratado
de Wásbington
El Japón denunciará el Tratado de Wáshington, antes de
que finalice el presente año. Como quiera que se hacen mu-
chas conjeturas y suposiciones alrededor de este tema, voy a
procurar aclarar la posición del Japón, seguro de que el ilus-
trado lector imparcial que se entere de mis alegatos, no vacila-
rá en reconocer lo justo de los puntos de vista del Japón.
I. Empecemos por examinar el Tratado de Wáshington. Se
firmó este tratado en Wáshington, hace trece años, esto es,
en 1921. Es de dominio público que en el mismo tratado se e-
tablecieron las proporciones de la fuerza naval de 5, 5, 3, 1.75
 1.75, para los Estados Unidos, Gran Bretaña, Japón, Francia
e Italia, respectivamente. ¿Cómo se fijaron estas relaciones!
Pues se las arregló a base de las fuerzas navales existentes de
las respectivas Potencias. El estado actual de las fuerzas na-
vales de aquel entonces, era: Tanto el Japón como los Estados
Unidos se lanzaban a una enorme expansión de armamentos
navales; Inglaterra también había hecho un anormal aumento
de sus unidades, con motivo de la guerra europea; Francia,
empero, mantenía una fuerza notablemente inferior, debido a
61

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.98)
que se dedicaba a la fabricación de pertrechos militares para
los ejércitos aliados, y suspendía las construcciones predeter-
minadas, durante la conflagración.
No es claro, pues, como la luz meridiana, que es absoluta-
mente irracional el querer dar perpetuidad a las proposicio-
nes, que se basaron en la fuerza naval existente de una época.
en circunstancias especiales!
(En la conferencia de Wáshington, el Japón sostuvo enér-
gicamente que "el arreglo de la suma de fuerza naval que co-
rresponda a cada país, debía fundarse en la seguridad de su
defensa nacional", pero los Estados Unidos recalcaron que "ha-
bía de basarse en la potencia naval existente de cada nación.
y abogaron por las proporciones de 5, 5, 3, para los Estados
Unidos, Inglaterra y el Japón, de acuerdo con su propio cálcu-
lo. El Japón señaló que había errores en dicho cálculo, y des-
pués de acaloradas discusiones, aceptó tales proporciones, a
condición de que se mantendría el statu quo de fortificaciones
en las islas del Pacífico.)
II. Trece años han corrido desde entonces, y los tiempos
han cambiado; el Japón, bajo ningún concepto puede quedar-
se, por más tiempo, resignado a tales proporciones vergonzo-
sas. Y por qué! Veamos!
En primer término, tenemos el adelanto de la ciencia,
quiero decir, que a medida que progresan la ciencia y la tée.
nica, las condiciones de la fuerza naval se han modificado gran
demente, desde el tiempo de la Conferencia de Wáshington.
Para citar un ejemplo, reproduciré a continuación un cuadro
comparativo de las distancias que los buques, barcos y aero-
planos pueden hacer su recorrido, sin tomar los combustibles
en el mar, o sea de su resistencia de combustible.
02

=== Page 395 === (confidence 1.00)
LA FIESTA DE AOI DE KIOTO

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.99)
En tiempo de la Conferencia de Wáshington. (A): Cruee
ros m/m. 5,000 a 6,000 millas. Submarinos, m/m. 5,000 millas.
Hidroplanos, 800 a 900 millas.
En la actualidad (B) B/A: Cruceros, m/m. 10,000 mi-
llas 1.8. Submarinos, m/m. 20,000 millas 3.3. Hidroplanos,
m/m. 2,000 a 2,500 millas, 2.7.
Como se ve fácilmente, se han acortado las distancias de
los mares; por ejemplo, las Islas de Hawaii que están a dis-
tancia de 3,400 millas de Yokohama, no fueron, en otros tiem-
pos, más que unas islas solitarias que poco tenían que ver con
la defensa nacional del Japón. Mas, en la actualidad, se han
convertido en una fuerte base de avance, muy próxima a nues-
tro Imperio. Para ilustrarlo mejor, tomaremos el ejemplo en
la armada de los Estados Unidos: en el tiempo de la Confe-
rencia de Wáshington, no había sino unos cuantos buques que
tenían la resistencia para poder avanzar al Oriente al través
del Pacífico; de modo que si el statu quo de las defensas en el
Pacífico se mantuviera, es decir, si se quedaran tal como se
encontraban los diques, fuertes, etc., ete., era muy difícil para
la escuadra estadounidense hacer una operación ofensiva en el
Oriente. Sin embargo, desde entonces a esta parte, los princi-
pales navíos americanos han sido casi todos modernizados. Se
les ha aplicado el sistema rejuvenecedor, y se les ha aumenta-
do enormemente su resistencia de navegación, y, por ende, to-
da la armada americana de hoy día tiene la suficiente capaci-
dad de atravesar el Pacífico.
Por lo tanto, la limitación puesta a las defensas del Pacífi-
co, una de las razones por la cual el Japón cedió un paso en la
Conferencia de Wáshington, ha llegado a ser un despropósito.
Por otra parte, como por el perfeccionamiento de las armas y
aeroplanos han cambiado mucho las formas de combate, la can-

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.99)
tidad de fuerza naval que necesita el Japón, no se puede medir
eon las mismas consideraciones de antaño.
En segundo término: las condiciones internacionales han
cambiado. A la espalda del Japón y Manchukuo, la Rusia So-
viética está amenazando el sentido de seguridad del Japón,
aumentando constantemente sus fuerzas militares en el Extre
mo Oriente; a nadie se le escapa el hecho de que está concen-
trando sus tropas, aeroplanos y submarinos en el Oriente. Y
sin que yo me atreviese a pormenorizar aquí los cambios que
ha habido en el mundo, el docto lector comprenderá en segui-
da la diferencia que se nota entre las actuales condiciones in-
ternacionales y las que prevalecían en la época en que se firmó
el Tratado de Wáshington. Por eso es natural que se hayan
cambiado las medidas de asegurar la defensa nacional del Ja-
pón, a fin de que pueda responder a nuevas exigencias.
Ahora bien, la otra razón por la que el Japón se vió obli-
gado a aceptar las proposiciones de 5, 5, 3, en el Tratado de
Wáshington, consistió en que podía construir libremente los
barcos auxiliares como los cruceros y otras naves; pero por el
Tratado de Londres de 1930, se le impusieron desfavorables y
pésimas restricciones a esa libertad. Cómo podría, entonces.
garantizar el sentido de seguridad del Japón!
El Japón está al presente desbordado por la voz de des-
contento por largo tiempo constreñida, que se levanta ahora
en contra del Tratado de Wáshington. Es más; no faltan
ejemplos cerca a mano. Algunos lectores recordarán que des-
pués de la firma del Tratado de Londres muchos casos san-
grientos como el de "el 15 de mayo", han sucedido en el Japón.
y que se han sacrificado muchas vidas. Todo esto no es más
que la manifestación de nuestro desagrado nacional, en contra
de los tratados de Wáshington y Londres, y, al mismo tiempo,
64

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.99)
una muestra del triste y penoso despertar del pueblo japonés,
acerca de la inseguridad de las defensas nacionales.
III. Por consiguiente, el Japón gallarda y heroicamente se
levanta y reclama la abolición del tantas veces referidó Tra-
tado de Wáshington. La actitud que asume el Imperio, es re-
suelta, y cuenta con la inquebrantable unión de su pueblo; su
determinación es tan firme como inflexible.
Así es que los principios y los razonamientos con que el
Japón se propone ir a la nueva conferencia naval son:
1) Reconocer a todas las naciones la paridad de armamen-
tos navales.
2) Realizar la verdadera reducción de armamentos, y re-
chazar cualquier intento que tienda a aumentar las preparacio-
nes bélicas.
3) Abolir totalmente o reducir al mínimum los preparati-
vos ofensivos, y permitir suficientes armamentos defensivos,
para garantizar, de este modo, la seguridad en la defensa na-
eional de todos los países.
El espíritu fundamental de estos principios está en que el
uno y el otro se abstendrán de amenazar. En términos más
sencillos, se propone bajar las anticuadas proporciones de 5, 5,
3, hasta las de 2, 2, 2. Esta proposición es la más equitativa
que nosotros hacemos honrada y varonilmente, sin temor de-
lante de Dios y de los hombres, deseando sinceramente la rea-
lización de una verdadera reducción de armamentos navales.
IV. La política nacional del Japón radica en consagrarse al
mantenimiento de la paz en el Oriente, y de contribuir al mis-
mo tiempo a la paz duradera del mundo. Abriga, por ende,
vehementes deseos de que se celebre la próxima conferencia
naval, y, aunque, por desgracia, nuestras justas proposiciones
65

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.94)
no fueran reconocidas por otras naciones, y, por eso, fracasara
la conferencia venidera, el Japón evitará a todo trance las in-
útiles "carreras" de construcciones navales, a no ser que se
vea amenazado y provocado por otras potencias.
("El Universal", 13 de diciembre de 1934.)
8

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.99)
La Mujer Japonesa
Aunque mucho se ha escrito acerca del Japón, bien puede
asegurarse que la mujer japonesa, tal como es en realidad, e
muy poco conocida, y que la presentación que de ella hacen al-
gunos escritores extranjeros, es falsa.
Casi siempre se le presenta como a una criatura encanta-
dora, de modales refinados, de temperamento dulce, muy d6-
cil y obediente, con poco carácter y con ninguna voluntad
propia, servicial a sus padres, a su esposo, y llegado el tiem-
po, a sus hijos. En este aspecto es una encarnación de todas
las virtudes femeninas agradables a los hombres. Tal es su-
perficialmente el concepto que se tiene de la mujer japonesa,
de la que no se estudia la esencia del firme carácter que es-
conde tras de un exterior inocente.
¿Cuál es, entonces, la verdad acerca de la mujer japo-
nesa!..
En la vida física y en la moral es valiente en extremo.
¿Ha visto alguien en cualquiera ocasión a una mujer de ese
país desmayarse al recibir una infausta noticia o al presenciar
algún espectáculo impresionante!... Su valor tiene origen en
las adversidades más duras que la humanidad ha experimen-
7

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.99)
tado. Su propia apariencia de timidez y de sacrificio propio
está en razón inversa de su fuerza interior, tal como si ella
fuera consciente de su debilidad o abandono. No es su valor
una cualidad inútil y jactanciosa, o una amenaza como burbu-
jas que se desvanecen; es gentil y dulce, pero su dulzura no
es la del bebé que llora cada vez que está contrariado, ni es
su gentileza la demostración de una constante vigilancia sobre
aí misma.
Veamos por un momento a la esposa de la clase media.
Educa con toda dedicación a seis o siete niños, y al mismo
tiempo que carga a un pequeñín en su espalda, se la ve tra-
bajando a todas horas, sonriente siempre y cantando al bebé
con todo cariño. No impide esto que se haga cargo de su eco-
nomía doméstica y que cuide del hogar que el marido, con-
fiando en su capacidad, le confía.
La esposa japonesa es la abnegación personificada y siem-
pre está satisfecha de su hogar, de su esposo y de sus hijos.
Se queja, protesta o pretende suicidarse...? Nada de eso;
muéstrase siempre gentil, de buena índole, y es la esposa ama-
ble, descrita, quizá, por algunos como mujer de educación an-
tigua. Se siente feliz y encuentra la vida grata, no con la re-
signación del fatalismo, sino con la fortaleza de quien acepta
su parte en la existencia como algo enviado del cielo, determi-
nada a hacer su labor lo mejor posible, a ir tan lejos como se
necesite y a detenerse solamente cuando sea indispensable,
cuando no pueda ir más allá... eso es todo. Su tipo es pre-
ponderante en el Japón. En cualquier ciudad o aldea es ella
la espina dorsal del imperio.
Todos los trabajos que puedan imaginarse y los peligros
que han amagado a diferentes generaciones durante varias
centurias en aquellas islas volcánicas, han hecho crecer y afir-
68

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.99)
marse en ella un gran poder de resistencia y de valor contra
las adversidades físicas y morales. Esta cualidad, este espíri-
tu heroico se manifiesta en todos sus actos, y de ello nos da la
Historia muchos ejemplos. Ha habido heroínas que se han
hecho notar por su valor físico, y aun por sus exploraciones
marciales, tales como la Emperatriz Jingu y Hangaku; modelo
de tierna caridad y de sacrificio propio, como la Emperatriz
Komyo; tipos de gran fuerza intelectual, como Sei-Shonagon
y Murasaki-Shikibu.
Desgraciadamente se han conocido también mujeres de
maldad notoria, libertinas, traidoras y asesinas de negra alma.
En nuestros días aun se encuentran algunas en los complots
nihilistas en contra de la augusta institución nacional; triste
es confesar esto. Pero al lado de estas mujeres, no han faltado
otras de un tipo completamente distinto, como Kesa-Gozen,
que se sacrificó por salvar a su esposo y a su virtud, como
Ono-no-Komachi, mujer privilegiada, cuyos poemas brillan
siempre en el firmamento literario del Japón, con tanto es-
plendor hoy como el que tuvieron hace miles de años. La di-
ferencia esencial entre ellas, según creen algunos, está en que
la misma energía que se escapa de todas produce en unas y
en otras diferentes frutos, según esté bien o mal dirigida y en-
cauzada.
Por lo que toca al estado legal de la mujer en el Japón,
no es ciertamente igual al del hombre. Ella, por ejemplo, no
tiene derecho a votar o a ser elegida para la Dieta. Pero hay
un movimiento sufragista cada día más activo entre las mu-
jeres intelectuales modernas, que son demasiado listas y su-
ficientemente fuertes para no atemorizarse ante desventajas
meramente legales o políticas. En los últimos años parece que
se han dado cuenta de que es un error llorar por la falta de
69

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.99)
igualdad civil o política. Será que han descubierto un terre
no en que pueden cumplir mejor con su destino...
Nos euenta la Historia que en el Japón antiguo, durante
el período de Nara, la mujer japonesa disfrutaba de una com-
pleta igualdad al hombre, social y políticamente. Entre los
años de 592 a 770, durante los cuales reinaron diez y seis man-
datarios, no menos de ocho fueron emperatrices, cada una de
las cuales se hizo célebre por sus cualidades literarias y ar-
tísticas.
En la época en que el país fué gobernado por mujeres, se
registraron muchos progresos en la literatura y en el arte. La
religión propia del país alcanzó también gran desarrollo. Acer-
ca de este punto hay que anotar que con la ayuda del Estado
fueron construídos muchos templos en las provincias.
Más tarde, en el período de Heian, como los estudiantes
chinos y coreanos penetraban al Japón con su moral peculiar
y con sus doctrinas éticas acerca del lugar que ocupa, según
ellos, la mujer en la vida, las condiciones de la mujer japone
sa declinaron. El régimen de Fujiwara contribuyó mucho,
ciertamente, a menguar el valor de la mujer, aunque en algu-
nos casos sirvió para lograr adelantos muy cumplidos.
Durante el período de Kamakura vió el Japón a varias
mujeres que se destacaron en política, distinguiéndose el tipo
de Masako, la esposa de Yoritomo en Kwanto, y el de Bihiko-
mon-in en la capital. No lograron éstas alcanzar una benéfica
influencia, pero, no obstante, han dejado en la historia el re-
cuerdo de sus caracteres bien definidos.
Fué en el régimen de Tukugawa en el que efectivamente
sonó la campana de duelo de los derechos políticos de la mu-
jer. Esto explica que la mujer moderna japonesa considere a
ese período como a su mayor enemigo. El país quedó pacifi-
70

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.99)
cado por el Gobierno feudal del centro del Estado, bajo el eual,
cada persona, desde el Shogun hasta el último eampesino, tu-
vo un lugar fijo en la escala social, considerándose de alta
traición el alterarlo. La mujer fué colocada dentro de restrie-
ciones sociales, éticas, políticas, etc., y su único objeto en la
vida consistía en prestar obediencia a sus padres, a su esposo
y en la edad mayor a sus hijos. En esta esclavitud de la mu-
jer, las doctrinas del budismo y del confucionismo jugaron un
papel muy importante. Buddha, según debemos recordarlo,
trata a la mujer como figura odiosa con cara de ángel y cora-
zón de demonio. Confucio la ponía a la par de los locos y de
los niños.
La mujer japonesa, revelándose ante tan gran injusticia,
ha procurado evitar que su mentalidad se idiotice. Ha luchado
por su progreso intelectual y ha logrado así destacarse en la
actualidad y tomar un significativo puesto en el progreso del
mundo.
("El Hogar", 22 de mayo de 1935.)
71

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.99)
Al Margen de la Caricatura
del "Vanity Fair"
El último número del magazine americano "Vanity Fair"
publicó una caricatura de Su Majestad el Emperador del Ja-
pón, caricatura que a los ojos de los japoneses fué injuriosa e
insultante, y que, por lo tanto, ha provocado una protesta di-
plomática. Como la susodicha caricatura fué reproducida en
un periódico de esta ciudad, por ser una de las últimas nove-
dades del periodismo, he juzgado conveniente hacer en esta
ocasión algunas breves observaciones sobre el sentimiento de
adoración que tiene el pueblo japonés hacia la Casa Imperial.
En la Constitución del Imperio del Japón existe un artícu-
lo que dice que "el Emperador es sagrado e inviolable", pres-
cribiendo que el Emperador no está en la obligación de asumir
la responsabilidad de todas las cuestiones, sino que los Minis-
tros de Estado son los que deben responder de todos los actos
administrativos. Considerada solamente desde el punto de
vista constitucional, la caricatura de "Vanity Fair" erró el
blanco. Sin embargo, el que la caricatura referida exaspere al
pueblo japonés, es cuestión de hechos.
En verdad, el profundo afecto y la lealtad que todo el
72

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.99)
pueblo japonés abriga para su Emperador, está fuera del al-
cance de la imaginación que puedan tener los otros pueblos del
orbe, y este mismo principio de respetar a la Familia Imperial
como el alma de l& Nación, es el que ha formado la gloriosa
historia patria, que durante 2,595 años jamás ha registrado el
desprecio de los otros, y que constituye el fundamento del
verdadero espíritu nacional, que airosa e inalterablemente se
yergue, a pesar de la modernización que ha sufrido en los úl-
timos tiempos todo el país tanto en lo social, económico y po-
lítico como en lo militar, etc., etc. En otras palabras, se puede
decir que Su Majestad es, para el pueblo japonés, una existen-
cia religiosa y que viene a ser teológicamente, un dios revesti-
do de la forma humana.
Además, la historia japonesa está llena de ejemplos de be-
nevolentes gobiernos, dados por sus Emperadores; y no se ha
dado ejemplo igual en el mundo entero, de una línea imperial
ininterrumpida, en la cual el Soberano haya amado al pueblo
como a sus hijos, y éste haya adorado y reverenciado a su Mo-
narca, sin distinción de riqueza o rango social. La propia in-
molación del general Nogui, después de la muerte del Em-
perador Meiji; el famoso informe del almirante Togo, en el
que decía que "la victoria en la batalla del Mar del Japón se
debe única y exclusivamente a la Divina Protección y a la
Virtuosa Dignidad de Su Majestad"; y la contestación que el
mismo Almirante dió a un corresponsal extranjero, al ser pre-
guntado acerca del motivo que le impulsara a llevar a cabo
frente al enemigo su gran hazaña táctica de cambiar el curso
de su escuadra: "Obedezco a la Orden Imperial de cortar el
curso de la Armada rusa." Todos estos son ejemplos de sobra
conocidos por el mundo en general.
Aunque parece que el corresponsal francés tomó esta con-
73

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.99)
testación en broma, nosotros los japoneses, que conocemos
bien la personalidad del Almirante Togo, y, dado el carácter
nacional del pueblo japonés, no podemos entenderla como un
euento o una fantasía.
En el campo de batalla la última exclamación de los ofi-
ciales y soldados, en el momento de morir, es invariablemente:
" Viva su Majestad!", sin aludir para nada a su familia ni a
su persona.
En los campos de batalla se forman con frecuencia peque
ños grupos decididos a morir, y las gentes que no esperan más
que la muerte segura, gustosa y resueltamente desempeñan su
cometido, después de "saludar" reverentemente en dirección
adonde se encuentra el Emperador. Los estudiantes que salen
para el extranjero con el objeto de tomar parte en un concurso
internacional de deportes, o las personas que simplemente van
de excursión al extranjero, van también a reverenciar al Em-
perador, frente al Palacio Imperial. No es exagerado que se
diga que aun los ladrones y limosneros, no difieren de otros ja-
poneses en su fervor de adoración y lealtad hacia Su Majestad.
En efecto, el Emperador es el eje del espíritu nacional del
pueblo japonés, y el fundamento de la vida nacional, y conse-
euentemente es muy justificable la grandísima indignación y
desagrado que le causó la publicación de la caricatura que to-
mó por objeto a Su Majestad el Emperador del Japón.
Que las naciones tienen la obligación de respetarse mutua-
mente, es una verdad muy grande, y es, por ende, grandísimo
error el querer aplicar la misma teoría humorística a un país
radicalmente distinto de aquellos en donde se hace a los jefes
del Estado objetos de broma y de caricaturas.
No importa cómo se resuelva la presente cuestión surgida
a raíz de la caricatura de "Vanity Fair", y no importa lo que
74

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.99)
se diga de nuestra mentalidad com respecto & la Cass Imperial,
no podemos menos que esperar que semejante ineidente no se
repita en lo futuro, para el buen nembre del país respectivo,
y en bien de la armonía y fraternidad del mundo.
("El Universal", 14 de agosto de 1935.)
75

=== Page 409 === (confidence 1.00)
Las Corrientes Intelectuales
en el Japón
Su gran espíritu de adaptación.-Aspectos del
Japón Moderno.-Los Grandes Periódicos.
Simplificación de la Escritura Japonesa.
Presentamos aquí con el entusiasmo y el natural amor que
tenemos al país de los cerezos floridos, algunos aspectos de la
vida moderna en esa nación que con tanta frecuencia atrae
sobre sí la atención de los extranjeros. Digamos primeramen-
te algo acerca del poder receptivo de los nipones en lo que
toca a los progresos que la civilización trae consigo. Después
pasaremos a observar algunas manifestaciones especiales de la
gran cultura japonesa.
Los japoneses son, efectivamente, muy rápidos para adop-
tar ideas extranjeras. Es curioso hacer observar que ese poder
receptivo que distingue a los japoneses de los chinos, ha sido
la causa de ciertas expresiones sarcásticas dirigidas a los ni-
pones por escritores extranjeros, quienes a esa cualidad llaman
"espíritu de imitación" y aun le dan otros calificativos. Sin
76

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.99)
entrar a discutir las diferencias trascendentales que hay entre
la imitación y la originalidad, diremos que la prueba real en el
caso debería ser si el recibidor acaba por contribuir en algo
a la gran herencia social del género humano o no. Esta adap-
tabilidad del pueblo japonés a nuevas ideas, le ha ayudado a
injertar en sus propios troncos distintas ramas de filosofía,
que más tarde hicieron brotar las flores de diversas fragan-
cias y tintes diferentes de las originales.
El poder receptivo de la nación japonesa habría sido más
bien de poco provecho en su desarrollo espiritual, si no le hu-
biera acompañado otro rasgo, que es el poder asimilativo. Es-
te es el punto que los observadores casuales han dejado total-
mente de comprender.
El tercer rasgo que más o menos se relaciona con el se-
gundo, es el amor de los japoneses a la armonía. Parece que
la diferencia esencial entre el Oriente y el Occidente dimana
de su actitud desigual hacia la armonía. La libertad individual
ha sido acentuada en el Occidente, y es, sin duda, la fuente
del progreso occidental, mientras en el Oriente, o cuando me-
nos en el Japón, la base de ideas morales ha sido la armonía.
Hemos armonizado todos los pensamientos exóticos con nues-
tras ideas indígenas, y queda ahora por ver cómo las tres ideas
que están sobresaliendo en el mundo Occidental, serán japo-
nizadas e incorporadas en el pensamiento japonés; nos referi-
mos al Cristianismo, a la Democracia y al Socialismo. Parti-
cularmente, las éticas de la democracia y su nueva interpreta-
ción adoptada al Japón, reclamarán una viva atención del
mundo para los años venideros.
La cuarta característica saliente de los nipones es el amor
de acción o el predominio de la teoría de acción en contradi-
ción a la teoría de la existencia o la pura reflexión metafísica.
77

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.97)
Tedes les sistemas éticos japoneses de pensamiento tienem al
palle de la csndncta. Una filosoía para um japomía, no es um
mistema de pensamiento metafisico, sino uma cose que tiene
que ser traducida en la eondacta diaria.
Los periódieos japoneses oeupan uns posición muy podeross
en la opinión pública Pocas personas se dan euenta de que
los periódicos nipones siguen en la cifra de cireulación a los
americanos e ingleses. "El Osaka Mainichi" tiene una eireu-
lación diaria de tres millones, y "El Tokio Asahi" compite
con el anterior en importancia y cireulación. Por una estima-
ción muy conservadora se calculan entre ocho y nueve millo-
nes la eireulación total de los periódicos.
El poreentaje de analfabetos en el Japón es muy reducido,
y probablemente no llega al 5% de toda la población. Es sor-
prendente la extensión que los periódicos han aleanzado en la
elase trabajadora.
Tenemos más de cineo mil magazines, excluyendo aquellos
que se reparten únicamente entre un cireulo de socios. Algu-
nos magazines populares, y particularmente los dedicados al
sexo bello, cireulan cerca de cuatrocientos mil ejemplares en
número redondo. Un aspecto que es más bien único en el Ja-
pón, es la popularidad de los magazines serios y radicales.
Los libros no tienen tanto éxito como los periódicos y ma-
garines. La venta más grande de record fué probablemente la
de "Balas Humanas", una autobiografía de un joven teniente
que tomó parte en el sitio de Puerto Arturo durante la guerra
rusojaponesa. Se vendió medio millón en veinte años. En los
áltimos años, "Pasando la Línea de Muerte", de un fervoroso
78

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.97)
trabajador social, se vendieron más de doscientos mil em peees
añes, y el drama intitalado "El Sacerdete y sus Discipeles"
tuvo éxito semejaste.
; Adónde va el Japón con todos estos equipos intelectaales!
El Japón está saliendo del período de la influencia extranjera,
para entrar en una nueva era de formulación y consolidación
de su pensamiento. y
1º En primer término. está pasando de moda el entmiasmo
por las obras traducidas de idiomas extranjeros.
2 Después de la época de traducciones, ha renido el pe
riodo del estudio nuevo del Japón mismo. El Occidente enseñó
al Japón el método de investigación cientifica. que el Japóm
ha aplicado a su propia cultura e instituciones legadas por s
antepasados.
3 El cambio y la simplificación en el estilo del lenguaje,
facilita el progreso de la nueva orientación.
4º La marea creciente del nuevo japonismo significa me
nos consumo de libros extranjeros. Antes, los estudiantes j
poneses usaban libros en inglés, alemán y francés, como texto,
pero ahora pueden estudiar cualquier ramo de cultura, sin la
ayuda de libros extraños. pues los japoneses están ahora vol-
viéndose a sus propios maestros. que son competentes.
Hay gran desventaja en el uso de caracteres chinos. Usa-
mos unos diez mil caracteres chinos para obras literariaa.
Nuestra lengua escrita consiste en complejos caracteres chi-
nos y simples silabarios japoneses de cuarenta y siete sola-
mente. Hasta hace poco. los periódicos tuvieron que proveer
99

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.99)
se, cuando menos, de nueve mil de los caracteres chinos, pero
gradualmente han disminuído el número, y están ahora usan-
do unos dos mil. Hay actualmente un movimiento en el Japón,
para restringir el número de caracteres chinos y escribir has-
ta donde sea posible con los simples silabarios japoneses. Se
ha propuesto disminuir aquellos caracteres hasta seiscientos.
Cuando esto sea, los niños japoneses no tendrán la fatiga de
aprender de memoria cinco o seis mil caracteres, y los perió-
dicos acortarán sus gastos incidentalmente.
La lengua japonesa fué en el pasado considerada como
algo imposible de aprender para los extranjeros. Pero con el
menor empleo de los caracteres chinos, que se procura ahora,
su adquisición será más fácil. Si es así, no sería del todo un
sueño el pensar que los occidentales den un paso adelante ha-
cia nosotros y dediquen cuando menos una vigésima parte de
su poder cerebral al estudio del idioma japonés. Si llega a ha-
ber unos centenares de extranjeros que puedan leer el japo-
nés, la mayor parte de la mala inteligencia acerca del Japón
desaparecerá para siempre.
("El Hogar", 11 de septiembre de 1934.)
80

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.99)
El Movimiento Autónomo
de la Cßina del Norte
Hace unos días que leí en un periódico citadino un intere-
sante artículo sobre "cinema y cinematografía", en el que el
autor dijo que el Japón no ha producido ninguna película que
pudiera llamarse cinematografía. Aunque es cierto que, apar-
te de las películas de paisajes o bocetos de la naturaleza que
en el extranjero se han exhibido, el Japón ha producido algu-
nas películas artísticas y sui géneris, el hecho es que estas pe
lículas, netamente japonesas, no han sido exportadas, debido
a la diferencia de idioma y de costumbres. No sólo en el Ja-
pón, sino en China también, se están produciendo películas
propiamente artísticas.
Tanto en el ejemplo anterior como en las cuestiones polí-
ticas, el mundo no está bien enterado de las actualidades del
Oriente, y no es sorprendente que no se las pueda compren-
der y apreciar, y es doblemente lamentable que este mismo he-
cho haya dado lugar a muchos rumores y propagandas infun-
dados en lo concerniente a los acontecimientos en el Extremo
Oriente.
La propaganda que se ha hecho últimamente en el sentido
81

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.99)
de que el Japón esté fomentando el movimiento autónomo de
la China del Norte, o de que cierto grupo militar del Japón
esté apoyando a cierto grupo de chinos, para extender más la
esfera de influencia del Japón en la China propia, es del todo
inexacto y hasta absurda, y siento el deseo de hacer algunas
aclaraciones que creo necesarias.
Lo más importante es el hecho de que el movimiento autó-
nomo de la China del Norte es el movimiento espontáneo de
las masas que habitan en aquellas regiones. El enorme territo-
rio de la China, que se divide topográficamente en tres gran-
des partes: la del Norte, la del Centro y la del Sur, tiene dis-
tintos aspectos, tanto en lo histórico, en lo económico como en
su cultura. Para citar ejemplos familiares: el nombre de
Chiang kai-shek, a quien se le considera generalmente como el
Jefe de aquel Estado, se pronuncia en el Norte de China
Chiang Chieh-shih. Los chinos tienen para escribir caracteres
comunes, pero no el idioma común, y, por consiguiente, no es
raro observar que entre los mismos chinos que se encuentran
en un tren se valgan del inglés, por no poder entenderse en su
propio idioma. En todo el país predominan autoridades que
no obedecen a las órdenes del gobierno de Nankín; entre ellas,
el Poder Político de Cantón es muy poderoso y siempre ha
venido oponiéndose en todo al gobierno de Nankín, sin que
por ello Chiang kai-shek pudiese hacer nada, aunque ha inten-
tado varias veces dominarlo; de ahí, estrictamente hablando,
el área en que el gobierno de Nankín ejerce su autoridad, no
son más que unas cuantas provincias a lo largo del Yang-tese-
kiang.
Se dice que el único punto de contacto que todo el pueblo
chino tiene con el gobierno de Nankín, son los excesivos im-
puestos que se exigen. Por supuesto que en los anales de las
82

=== Page 416 === (confidence 1.00)
naciones se encuentran épocas en que han tenido lugar estos
onerosos impuestos, pero este abuso ha sido o está siendo re-
movido más o menos rápidamente por medios adecuados, no
obstante que en China el mal existe aún, sin modificación al-
guna. Ultimamente, el gobierno de China (de Nankín) ha
adoptado la nacionalización de plata, contando con la ayuda
de Inglaterra, pero esta medida no es otra cosa que la extor-
sión misma, pues es obvio que no sirve más que para enrique-
cer a unos cuantos chinos, y no cabe duda de que, dada la
circunstancia y la ocasión, el movimiento autónomo del Norte
de China haya estallado a raíz de esta nacionalización de la
plata.
La evidencia de que el Japón no ve con buenos ojos la ten-
dencia de la partición de China, se puede deducir del hecho
de que ha sido el Japón el que siempre se ha opuesto al control
común de China, que ha sido sugerido por las otras naciones
que tienen intereses en aquel lejano país. En consecuencia, los
puntos esenciales que el Japón debe considerar para decidir
su actitud, enfrente del problema de la China del Norte, se-
rán como sigue:
1. Como se ha dicho antes, el actual movimiento autónomo
es la acción espontánea de las masas populares de la China
del Norte.
2. Como aquellas regiones están en propincuidad con el
Manchukuo, en el cual el Japón posee grandes intereses, cual-
quier movimiento que afecte la tranquilidad de aquéllas tiene
en seguida repercusiones en la paz de éste.
3. Hay que proteger los intereses japoneses en el Norte de
China.
Por último, hay que recordar que el japón se reserva el
83

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.99)
derecho de enviar sus tropas al Norte de China, en caso nece-
sario, por el Convenio de Tangku de 1933. Sin embargo, como
es lo mismo en las relaciones individuales, el reclamar el de-
recho de jure y hacerlo cumplir es el último recurso, y, por
ende, no podemos menos que esperar que Ching-kai-shek, dan-
do más consideraciones a las masas chinas, y con sincera amis-
tad y buena inteligencia, proceda a resolver todas las cuestiones
pendientes fuera y dentro de su país. Ya basta con la guerra
italoetíope, y el Japón tiene un anhelo más grande que cual-
quiera otra nación, por la paz del Extremo Oriente.
("El Universal", de diciembre de 1935.)
84

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.99)
La Citeratura Japonesa
Contemporánea
Leamos un interesante artículo de Kan Kikuchi, una de las
figuras más destacadas en el mundo literario del Japón.
En la pieza intitulada: "The Melting Pot", del dramaturgo
inglés Israel Zangwill, se compara a los Estados Unidos con
un crisol, al que todas las razas del orbe han sido arrojadas, y
del cual ha emergido una nueva nación. Esto se puede decir
de la literatura contemporánea del Japón. El actual círculo
literario del Nipón es un crisol literario que ha absorbido toda
clase de literaturas del mundo, y ha producido y seguirá pro-
duciendo nuevas literaturas.
La literatura rusa, con Tolstoi, Dostoevsky, Turgeneff y
Chekhov como representantes, ha predominado en el público
lector del Japón. La literatura de la Europa septentrional nos
vino por Ibsen, Strindberg y Bjornson. Supongo que no se
ha dejado ninguna obra de Strindberg sin traducir al japonés.
Asimismo, nos hemos familiarizado a fondo con la litera-
tura de Alemania y de Austria, desde el clásico Goethe hast
los más recientes, como Hauptmann, Schnitzler Hormannsthal
y Thomas Mann.
85

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.99)
En cuanto a la literatura francesa, el nombre de Maupas-
sant ha llegado a ser tan común como el de Tolstoi; tanto que
se ha inventado un hábil juego de vocablos: "Maupassant, Mo
Takusan", significando, "no más de Maupassant, o basta con
Maupassant". La Madame Bobary de Flaubert es conocida
por todos los jóvenes que aspiran al cultivo de las letras, mien-
tras el Jean Christophe de Romain Rolland no es menos leído.
Recientemente, André Gide parece estar en boga.
Volviendo a los autores ingleses, me gustaría consignar in-
cidentalmente que Bernard Shaw, quien visitó el Japón hace
unos años, declaró con no poca de su habitual fanfarronería,
que las únicas palabras niponas que conocía eran yen y
samurai. Nuestro conocimiento de su idioma, sin embargo, es-
tá en razón inversa de su vocabulario japonés, pues hemos es-
tado leyendo sus obras desde hace más de veinte años. Junto
con él, Oscar Wilde, George Meredith, John Galsworthy y
otros de quienes no tengo tiempo de enumerar, han gozado de
una franca popularidad. Hoy en día, James Joyce es favora-
blemente leído en nuestro país.
Edgar Allan Poe, y, más recientemente, Theodore Dreiser
y Upton Sinclair, son los escritores americanos que han sido
algo más que nombres para nosotros.
La literatura española ha dejado también impresas sus
huellas entre los amantes del arte.
Así, el crisol japonés se ha colmado con la promiscuidad de
innúmeras obras de literatos occidentales, y ha consumido,
ávidamente, esa mezcolanza. Empero, el crisol no estaba vacío
al empezar; en él habían estado bullendo y fundiéndose los
ingredientes de nuestra tradicional literatura. Consiguiente-
mente, lo que tenemos hoy es una mezcla de los elementos oc-
cidentales y de los nuestros propios. Estos en sí mismo, no son
80

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.99)
materias sencillas. La tradición de la literatura japonesa, hay
que recordarlo, ha sido modificada por las influencias de la
India, por conducto del Budismo, y por las de China. Creemos,
por ende, que nuestra literatura contemporánea es más uni-
versal en sus elementos y de más colorido en su fondo que la
de cualquiera otra nación.
El resultado de la fusión, con todo, no es una simple mez-
cla de todos aquellos ingredientes europeos y japoneses. Al-
gunos de los productos son peculiarmente japoneses, y de ellos
hablaremos más adelante.
Lo que la literatura europea nos ha traído, por medio de
los escritores mencionados son : primero, el Realismo (Natura-
lismo); segundo, el Idealismo humanitario, y tercero, una
nueva Técnica en la composición de novelas, especialmente de
novelas cortas.
El Realismo fué introducido al Japón por las obras de Zo-
la, Maupassant, Flaubert y otros, llegando al máximo de su
popularidad hacia 1910, después de la guerra rusojaponesa,
con Katai Tayama y Doppo Kunikida a la cabeza.
Mientras el Realismo miraba la vida al desnudo y se dedi-
caba a representar su lado obscuro, surgió como una oposición
a sus tendencias, una nueva escuela que se llamaba Shirakaba
Ha, o escuela de Abedul Blanco, siendo gran número de sus
miembros graduados del Colegio de los Pares. Influídos por
Tolstoi. pretendían describir la vida con el idealismo humani-
tario. Entre los principales defensores de esta escuela se en-
cuentran Saneatsu Mushakoji y el finado Takeo Arishima.
(tro grupo de escritores se levantó en oposición al Natu-
ralismo, no en la actitud con respecto a la vida, sino en el arte
de escribir, construcción y técnica. A éste se le llama Shingiko
Ha, o Escuela de Nueva Técnica, y está formada principalmen-
87

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.99)
te con graduados de las Universidades Imperiales. Kan Kiku-
chi mismo se afilia a este movimiento. Descontentos con los
naturalistas, cuya única preocupación era pintar la vida así
como así, sin miramientos a la trama ni al tema, los autores
de esta nueva escuela han intentado crear obras en las que se
encuentren una trama y un tema definidos.
Ambas escuelas empezaron hace unos veinte años, y no
pocos escritores pertenecientes a estos grupos, siguen desarro-
llando sus actividades en el campo de la literatura.
La literatura proletaria ha sido de reciente desarrollo. Afec-
tados por el comunismo ruso, los autores proletarios tomaron
la vida por la lucha de clases. Naturalmente, su interés era
cooperar a la realización del sacudimiento social que deseaban.
Pero cuando la literatura se emplea para otros fines que los
propios, es tanto como atar el arado al Pegaso, y no se puede
esperar que salga de ello una buena literatura. Como esta
clase de literatura se convirtió en literatura tipo; con el mismo
propósito, el mismo tema y el mismo carácter, el público lec-
tor empezó a perder el interés por ella, y con la intervención
del Estado ha decaído hasta convertirse en débil sombra de lo
que fuera.
Actualmente, con ningún estímulo nuevo del Occidente, y
sin ningunos escritores de excepcionales dotes, nuestra litera-
tura está, por decirlo así. en un estado de estancamiento, sólo
comprometida a novedades de técnica. La literatura contem-
poránea del Japón es. después de todo, el producto de la in-
fluencia abrumadora de la literatura europea, ejercida sobre
nuestras propias tradiciones literarias.
Existe, no obstante. un tipo de novela que es característi-
camente japonesa. Podría designársela como la "Novela Per-
sonal" o la "Novela Introspectiva". En la novela personal el
88

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.99)
mundo reflejado es el microcósmico del ser propio; una dis-
posición de ánimo que recuerda al lector la resignación estoica
que hay en el fondo del Haikai, y pinta la vida en que todos
los intereses se concentran en sí mismos aislados de la socie-
dad; es la antítesis de la novela social, y refleja la conducta
del autor, sus sentimientos o sus concepciones éticas. El cuen-
to está destinado a ser muy trivial, y, con todo, su concepto es
bastante profundo. Cuando la sensibilidad japonesa, simboli-
zada en el Haiku, se expresa en forma de novela, ayudada por
la técnica y los puntos de vista del Realismo, se tiene la novela
personal. En esta clase de novela el héroe no es otro que el
autor mismo, de incógnito; ni el tema ni la trama se encuen-
tran, ni la novedad ni el romance se necesitan. Unicamente,
los sucesos ordinarios de la vida cotidiana se verifican. No
obstante, hay una profundidad en la vida y el pensamiento
del héroe—el autor—en medio de estólidos acontecimientos.
Allí se siente la desnuda forma de la humanidad real.
La novela personal es peculiarmente japonesa, y resulta
difícil que este tipo de novela sea apreciado por lectores oc-
cidentales. Pero a los ojos de las musas, creo que ocupa un
alto lugar.
Como se ha dicho, nuestra literatura ha añadido mucho a
sus elementos propios por la introducción de la literatura uni-
versal. A menudo una traducción al japonés se hace de las
obras maestras de la literatura francesa, antes que a cualquie-
ra otra lengua, y lo mismo se puede decir frecuentemente por
lo que toca a las traducciones de la literatura inglesa, ameri-
cana o alemana. Ningún pueblo es tan ansioso de la literatu-
ra extranjera como el japonés. Pero, desgraciadamente, muy
poco de lo que poseemos se ha dado a conocer en el extran-
jero. La razón es muy sencilla. La dificultad radica en el len-
89

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.99)
guaje. Tenemos veinte o treinta distintas palabras para la
primera persona del singular. Cada una de estas veinte o
treinta voces tiene un peculiar grado de connotación en cuan-
to a clase, rango y personalidad del que habla. Es imposible,
pues, traducir todas estas voces en un solo yo. Otro ejemplo:
hay más de veinte nombres para la lluvia, según la estación
del año y la manera de llover. Y cada nombre es rico en aso-
ciaciones literarias. "Harusame" se traduce generalmente por
lluvia primaveral, pero en la palabra japonesa "Harusame".
hay para nosotros una infinita riqueza de poesía y de visión.
La palabra misma es una expresión artística.
Muchísimas palabras japonesas corren la misma suerte al
traducirlas, y nos desesperamos ante la imposibilidad de que
nuestra literatura sea propiamente interpretada. Con razón
Bernard Shaw pudo aprender solamente dos palabras, yen y
amurai, entre todas las palabras japonesas. ¿No es una triste
contradicción el que en contraste irónico con la total indife-
rencia e ignorancia de Shaw, hayamos nosotros leído todos
sus escritos? Parece. sin embargo. que la contradicción será
eterna.
Sería demasiado pueril querer ignorar la literatura japo-
nesa, so pretexto de que ningún hombre japonés de letras ha
ganado el premio Nobel. Si se pudiera materializar una olim-
píada literaria, sin "tropezones" de idioma, de seguro haría-
mos un juego muy duro para nuestros competidores.
("El Universal", 27 de febrero de 1936.)

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.99)
"Dar y Tomar", el Principio
que Guía al Comercio
Japonés
El llamado principio de "dar y tomar", basado en la idea
de satisfacer mutuamente las necesidades de unos a otros, es
el lema del Japón en sus esfuerzos internacionales, para pro-
mover la cooperación económica con las naciones extranjeras.
En otras palabras, el Nipón ha venido adhiriéndose al trata-
miento incondicional de la nación más favorecida, como la re-
gla fundamental en el comercio mundial, y aun hoy sigue in-
alterable en esta actitud.
Las condiciones fuera del Japón, sin embargo, no han sido
enteramente favorables. Existe una preponderante tendencia
internacional a prohijar el principio protector en el comercio
exterior, y muchos países hasta han intentado efectuar un
cambio artificial en la situación comercial, patrocinando la
balanza de importación y exportación por países.
El notable avance de los artículos japoneses en los merca-
dos extranjeros, es un problema para todo el mundo. Una
medida tras otra se han tomado en contra de las mercancías
91

=== Page 425 === (confidence 1.00)
niponas. Cada nación ha procurado defender su propia in-
dustria para detener al Japón. No todos esos pasos, em-
pero, han sido justos y limpios. Algunas potencias han ido
más allá del límite de "defensa propia", y han forzado al Ja-
pón a tomar sus propias contramedidas para asegurar el sano
progreso de su comercio. La ley para regular y proteger el
comercio, que fué promulgada con la aprobación de la Dieta
Imperial, tiene por mira usarla en represalia de las medidas
irracionales de otras naciones.
Debe de recordarse que esta ley es puramente defensiva, y
que, por ende, no constituye un arma ofensiva en la guerra
económica del mundo. Lo que el Japón desea, principia y aca-
ba con la coexistencia y mutua prosperidad de todos los países,
con la ayuda del pacífico y armonioso desarrollo del comercio.
Pero una vez desafiado, el Japón se ve obligado a defender-
se, y de ahí que la ley reguladora del comercio sea necesaria.
El Japón espera todavía que se presenten pocas ocasiones en
que se vea forzado a valerse de esta ley. En lo pasado, ha
evitado la aplicación del reglamento en tanto que fuese po-
sible, y ha procurado arreglar las dificultades por medio de
negociaciones amigables, con el espíritu de mutua concesión.
Las guerras arancelarias son probablemente el fenómeno
más notable en los aspectos económicos del mundo de hoy día.
La depresión universal es la causa de que la mayor parte de
los países dejaran el patrón oro y bajaran en valor sus mone-
das. Francia, Canadá, Filipinas, la Unión de Africa del Sur
y España decretaron un impuesto de indemnización sobre el
cambio, para aplicar a las importaciones de los países con ba-
jos tipos de cambio. El efecto fué inmediato en los artículos
japoneses, y su negocio recibió un severo golpe. Una marca-
da tendencia en la política arancelaria de hoy en día, se nota
92

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.99)
en el hecho de que se dan amplias facultades a los gobiernos,
para expeditar el alza de derechos aduanales, en respuesta a
los cambios de la situación económica en el exterior. Además
de la elevación de tarifas, hay otra señalada inclinación a
restringir directamente la importación.
El balance de comercio por países, s ahora una idea predo-
minante entre las naciones del mundo. Un país que compra
mucho del otro, demanda que éste compre más de aquél. Una
avenencia no siempre resulta, y muchas naciones denuncian
los tratados y adoptan métodos para detener la importación.
Los repetidos fracasos en los esfuerzos para remover las
barreras comerciales por la cooperación internacional, dieron
origen al llamado nacionalismo económico, y aun más a la
formación de bloques económicos.
La Gran Bretaña, al establecer las tarifas protectoras
en 1932, puso en marcha su programa de apretar las manos
económicas en su casa. En el verano del mismo año se acordó
una estrecha cooperación en la conferencia económica de
Ottawa. Los Estados Unidos, que en sí mismo son una gi-
gantesca unidad económica, trataron de hacer un block ame-
ricano, incorporando a los países Centro y Sudamericanos.
Francia, Holanda y Portugal siguieron el ejemplo, para te-
ner firmes los lazos económicos con sus respectivas colonias.
Paralelo con este movimiento nacionalista, otro de bloque
internacional—de índole geográfica—surgió. Este aspiró a la
alianza de varias naciones adyacentes fuertemente ligadas en
lo financiero. Los ejemplos se ven en el acuerdo triangular
de Italia, Austria y Hungría, hecho en Roma en mayo de 1934;
el Concilio económico de las naciones de la Pequeña Entente,
y la cooperación de los países bálticos. Desde el otoño de 1934
se celebraron conferencias por los países de patrón oro, tales
93

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.99)
como Francia, Bélgica, Holanda, Suecia, Italia y Polonia, para
la formación de un block de patrón oro.
Las nuevas tendencias en las políticas comerciales de las
naciones arriba mencionadas, han tenido considerable efecto
sobre la situación económica del mundo, resultando a su vez
tendencias que significan un avance más sobre las anteriores.
Una de las nuevas inclinaciones es la aminoración del pe-
ríodo de los pactos comerciales. Muchos tratados comerciales
se han firmado en los últimos años, para reemplazar o suple-
mentar los viejos pactos. Estos han sido, casi sin excepción,
por corta duración. Un tratado efectivo por un año, con tres
meses de aviso de abrogación, no es raro ahora. La tendencia
a tratar las relaciones comerciales por acuerdos provisionales
se ha acrecentado también.
Otra tendencia objetiva es la limitación con creces a la
aplicación de la cláusula de la nación más favorecida. En al-
gunos tratados comerciales firmados de poco tiempo acá, el
tratamiento de la nación más favorecida se concede única-
mente a los importantes artículos manejados en el comercio
de los dos países interesados. En algunos casos, los pactos
solamente deciden las tarifas sobre tales artículos en particu-
lar. De cualquier modo, el mundo se inclina a evitar el siste-
ma "el más favorecido". Por otro lado, las excepciones a la
aplicación de la cláusula de la nación más favorecida, se han
aumentado, aunque fueron generalmente admitidas las excep-
ciones en las alianzas arancelarias y en el comercio fronterizo
en el pasado; pero distintos países han empezado a insistir en
más amplias excepciones en los convenios con otros países,
por razones geográficas o de otra índole.
Bajo la presente anormal situación económica, la cláusula
de la nación más favorecida no puede ser una garantía efi-
94

=== Page 428 === (confidence 1.00)
LA PRIMAVERA EN NARA

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.99)
ciente en el comercio internacional. Dándose cuenta de este
hecho, las naciones se inclinan a procurar evitar obstéeulos,
mediante arreglos basados en el principio de reciprocidad, y
esta tendencia ha sido acelerada por los fracasos de muchas
conferencias internacionales, particularmente la de Londres.
Además de lo descrito, son numerosas las tendencias en las
políticas comerciales. Hay un método para hacer la proporeión
del comercio entre dos países. El límite máximo de importa-
ciones se decide por ambas partes en este caso. Hay, asimismo,
un plan de ajustar las cuentas, que elimina la dificultad en
la cobranza de cuentas comerciales, que surgen del control del
cambio en muchos países. En una palabra, el efecto de la de-
presión universal sin precedente, ha resultado ser un serio
retroceso al tradicional libre cambismo y al principio de la
nación más favorecida, que fueron, en otro tiempo, los princi-
pios dirigentes de las políticas de comercio internacional.
El monto total de exportación e importación del Japón
en 1934 llegó a 4,658.503,000 de yens, de los cuales 2,400.423,000
fueron la suma de importación, y 2,258.080,000 la de experta-
ción. Comparadas con las del año anterior, la importación y
la exportación aumentaron en yens 382.920,000, o sea el 19%,
y yens 326.012,000, o sea el 16.9%, respectivamente. El ezceso
de la importación subió a yens 142.343,000, dejando un aumen-
to de yens 56.908,000, o 66.6%, comparado con el del año an-
terior.
La tabla siguiente demuestra el comercio exterior del Ja-
pón durante los últimos tres años: (Unidad yens 1,000.)
1933
1933
1934
Valer
Indice
Valer
Indice
Valee
Indiee
Exportación....
1.409.991
100
1.861.045
132
2.171,924
154
Importación.
1.421.461
100
1.917.219
133
2.282,530
159
Total.
2.841 453
100
3.778,265
131
4.454,455
156
Exceso de Imp.-
21.469
100
56,174
263
110,606
516
95

=== Page 430 === (confidence 1.00)
Como se ve en el cuadro que precede, el Japón, a pesar
del bullicioso clamor de que está inundando el mundo con sus
baratas mercancías, compra más que lo que vende!...
El incremento extraordinario del comercio exterior del Ja-
pón se basa en dos razones, una permanente o fundamental,
y la otra temporal o circunstancial. Aquélla se funda en tales
factores como la paciencia, el esfuerzo, la sinceridad y otras
virtudes peculiares a la raza japonesa, el poder de adquirir
la técnica, el modo simple y sencillo de vivir, el comparativa-
mente bajo jornal, la racionalización de industrias, el aumen-
to de eficiencia, etc., etc., y ésta se debe a la baja del valor
del yen y a la reducción del costo, causada por el nuevo esta-
blecimiento y expansión de negocios, etc.
Las presentes condiciones económicas del mundo están le-
jos de ser satisfactorias. Cada país, ansioso por su propio re-
cobro económico, es incapaz de cooperar con los otros. Cada
nación, en la esperanza de proteger su industria, está siempre
aumentando restricciones sobre la importación de artículos
extranjeros, como si estuviera olvidándose que las importacio-
nes de un país son exportaciones del otro, y que por restringir
las importaciones están estrangulando sus propias exporta-
ciones.
("Industria y Comercio de México", marzo de 1936.)
96

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.98)
La Mujer Japonesa Frente
a un Aspecto Nuevo
de la Vida
EL MOVIMIENTO CULTURAL CEDE LUGAR
AL NACIONALISMO
Entre las más notables tendencias en la vida actual de las
mujeres japonesas, están el nacionalismo y el movimiento para
la regeneración económica, los euales rápidamente han gana-
do terreno entre el bello sexo del país, en contraste con el
movimiento cultural.
Por "el movimiento cultural en general", se entiende aquí
la democracia representada por varios pasos encaminados ha-
eia la emancipación social de la mujer, el liberalismo substan-
cial en el amor y en el matrimonio, y muchos otros procesos
desarrollados sobre la base de la idea eultural-en otras pa-
labras, la preparación mental de las japonesas, para ir a nivel
con el movimiento internacional de cultura de Europa y Amé-
rica, sea bueno o malo. Este movimiento general de eultura
ha retrocedido por el creciente empuje del naeionalismo entre
las potencias del mundo, especialmente desde el conflieto chi-
nojaponés de 1931.
o7

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.99)
El elamor " Vuelta a la tierra patria!" o ": Retorno al
Japón!" vino en seguida. Fué un esfuerzo para promover un
reconocimiento más profundo del valor intrínseeo de la ma-
dre patria, es decir, la idea nacionalista en el sentido más
amplio de la palabra. Lo que la clase intelectual del Nipón
encierra en estas palabras: "El espíritu nacional despierta",
ha penetrado ahora en la mente de todas las mujeres japonesas.
En costraste al culturismo que subraya la libertad indivi-
dual, la ética nacionalista prescribe que la libertad individual
debería sacrificarse por la nación.
Así, los líderes del movimiento femenil de la paz mundial,
que es una fase del internacionalismo cultural, han quedado
inactivos, mientras el "sentido de la crisis nacional" ha gana-
do marcado terreno entre las japonesas por todo el país, espe-
rando prepararse para cualquiera eventualidad.
El hecho de que muchas "escuelas para novias" hayan sido
establecidas, es digno también de mención. La palabra misma,
"hanayome" (novia) tiene relación con la psicología del mo-
mento. Esta palabra japonesa tiene en sí misma algo de un so-
nido feudal. Estuvo fuera de uso por algún tiempo por razón
de ese mismo tono feudal. Dicen que el objeto de la educa-
ción de las novias es la reeducación de las graduadas en las
escuelas superiores, para darles toda clase de conocimientos
necesarios para ser amas de casa. En todas estas escuelas sos
tienen el principio de la educación netamente japonesa, en la
que se da mayor importancia a la simplicidad, constancia, do-
cilidad, devoción y sumisión, por considerárselas como princi-
pales virtudes de la mujer.
Con el advenimiento del nacionalismo que predomina en
98

=== Page 433 === (confidence 1.00)
todos los campos de la vida pública, es natural que el movi-
miento femenil de eultura o de emancipación sobre la base de
internacionalismo haya perdido su influencia de antes. Por
ejemplo, el movimiento sufragista para la mujer, ya no tiene
interés para las japonesas en masa. Los líderes del movimiento
para la promoción de la más alta educación de mujeres no sa-
ben qué hacer, pues muchas de sus adherentes han perdido su
celo, a causa de alguna dificultad económica, o bajo la in-
fluencia de sus ideas cambiadas.
El internacionalismo cultural se ha orientado hacia el pro-
greso intelectual de mujeres; en cambio, el nacionalismo dice
que "el Japón ha descuidado la educación moral, por haber
dado demasiado valor a la educación intelectual".
A pesar de lo anterior, las japonesas en los centros urba-
nos aun están ansiosas por adquirir un radio más amplio de
conocimientos. Las conferencias de índole educativa son bien
atendidas, no sólo por las graduadas de colegios superiores,
sino también por las amas de casa en general. Los organiza-
dores de algunas reuniones de esta clase, se ven en conflicto
por las demasiadas demandas de localidades.
El movimiento de regeneración económica no es una lucha
de clases dirigida por mujeres izquierdistas. Las mujeres ru-
rales comparten con los hombres la responsabilidad por la
rehabilitación económica de sus respectivos distritos. Por el
entusiasta adelantamiento de este movimiento, ellas han esta-
blecido su propia posición, de una manera práctica y sin ela-
mar por derechos femeninos.
Se atribuye a ciertos grupos de mujeres campesinas, el ha-
ber encontrado nuevas fuentes de contribución que escapaban
a la atención de los políticos lugareños, haciendo posible li-

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.99)
quidar las deudas de la administración de la localidad. Otras
han tenido éxito en disminuir los gastos de matrimonio, que
son los más exagerados del mundo.
Otros esfuerzos más efectivos de las mujeres han contri-
buído muchísimo a la campaña fructífera de temperancia en
las poblaciones campestres.
Las ideas morales de la mujer campesina, que se tenían por
inferiores a las de sus compañeras urbanas, han hecho buen
progreso, gracias a los constantes esfuerzos desplegados por
los alertas miembros de las asociaciones de mujeres jóvenes.
El propósito del movimiento de regeneración consiste: pri-
mero, en abstenerse de los placeres efímeros, separándose de
la llamada "vida cultural" en los distritos urbanos; segundo,
en buscar nuevas fuentes de ingresos, para mejorar las condi-
ciones económicas de cada hogar, y ayudar a la administración
pública al mismo tiempo; tercero, en mejorar el manejo de la
casa, evitando las convencionalidades de las establecidas cos-
tumbres de matrimonio.
Tanto en las ciudades como en los pueblos, la labor no es
una penalidad para las mujeres japonesas. Es más bien un
deber, una necesidad, y aun es parte de su programa de vida.
Especialmente, en las cindades, un gran número de mujeres se
dedica a las profesiones, debido a la depresión, o algunas ve-
ces debido al hueco que deja la vida ociosa de la clase aco-
modada.
Finalmente, ¿qué es "la característica ideal" para una ja-
ponesa! Esta pregunta fué contestada por las participantes
en el censo escolar que se verificó en todo el país, en la primera
parte del año 1935, cuando todas las alumnas de las escuelas
superiores recibieron el cuestionario. La mayor parte de las
contestaciones dijo "serenidad" y "salud".
100

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.99)
Así, el hecho es que las jóvenes niponas ven su futuro con
optimismo, haciendo lo posible para el progreso y mejora-
miento de la sociedad, y gozando de la serenidad y de la salud.
Es seguro que su porvenir promete.
("El Hogar", abril de 1936.)
101

=== Page 436 === (confidence 1.00)
Elementos Espirituales en
la Industria Japonesa
Es un concepto erróneo el de que la industria del Japón es
un fenómeno producido en los últimos setenta años por el
asiduo remedo de Europa y de América. Que no había fábri-
cas en el sentido moderno, ni máquinas gigantes, ni barcos que
llegaran cargados con algodón, lana y minerales, y que salie-
ran con artículos textiles y manufacturados, antes de la Res-
tauración de Meiji, es perfectamente cierto; mas no se puede
considerar al Japón antiguo como una nación primitiva e in-
culta, sin industria y sin otras actividades productoras desde
el principio de su historia hasta la época en que abrió sus
puertas al Occidente. La realización de la última década se ha
hecho con una rapidez y una magnitud tan extraordinarias
que jamás se habían visto antes: pero sus fundamentos datan
de siglos, con el adelanto de las artes y oficios.
Tanto entre los artistas como entre los artífices del Japón
antiguo, se manifestaron dos notables características; la de-
licada atención hasta en los más sutiles detalles. y la exquisita
hechura y la devoción en todo lo que hacían. Sus pinturas,
esculturas, cerámicas, etc., etc., heredadas a nosotros, explican
esas características con más elocuencia que cualquier película
pudiera presentarlas. Estos objetos de arte atesorados en los
102

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.99)
museos del Japón y de otros países, ofrecen tangibles evidem-
cias de que en la manufactura de las cosas, tanto en lo práeti-
co como en lo estético, la rasa japonesa no carece de expe
riencia, pericia y delicadeza.
Aquellos poco familiarizados con la vida espiritual de los
nipones, quizás no puedan apreciar cuán seriamente estos hom-
bres cuidan sus obras. Su actitud remonta a los días en que
los artistas y artífices estaban influídos por el código ético de
sus patrones guerreros, Bushido, que enseñaba que en el tra-
bajo cada quien tenía que estar dispuesto a sacrificar hasta
su vida. La pintura en la cual el artista no hubiera puesto su
corazón y alma, no podría ser una obra maestra, por elaborada
o exquisita que fuese. Así, se acercaban al trabajo eon una
devoción semejante al celo religioso, y fué este elemento espi-
ritual el que dió valor a lo que realizaron. Una figura repre-
sentada por unas cuantas pinceladas, era encomiada mucho
más que una esmeradamente minuciosa en detalles, con tal
que diese la sensación de estar enfrente de una persona viva
de carne y hueso. Un pájaro pintado cantaría si el artista se
hubiera concentrado en el espíritu del canto, y, asimismo, un
arroyo pintado en un paisaje parecería correr. Una taza po-
dría contener en su forma y color el alma de su creador.
La actitud espiritual que los artistas y artífices reconocie-
ron como esencial en la ejecución de sus obras, fué también
parte del adiestramiento de los que fueron llamados, hace e-
tenta años, para adquirir y aplicar el conocimiento mecánico y
químico del Occidente. Esta actitud fué su más precioso haber,
y ningún análisis del rápido adelanto del Japón como una na-
ción industrial puede ignorarla.
Algo de esta actitud se puede ver en Yoshihiro, un famoso
forjador de espadas en el siglo catorce. Tan grande fué su
103

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.99)
confianza en sí mismo, que no abrigaba ninguna duda de que
existiera en todo el Japón ningún otro que pudiese competir
con él. La inclusión de su nombre en la lista de los diez y ocho
forjadores de espadas que tuvieron, cada uno, que hacer una
espada para el Emperador, fué visto como cosa natural, y él es-
taba seguro de que su espada obtendría el más alto honor. Fué,
sin embargo, la espada de su rival la que ganó la mayor dis-
tinción. Yoshihiro pudo admitir que este rival, Masamuné, era
más hábil en el arte de vivir, pero jamás quiso concederle que
hiciera una espada mejor que él. Debía haber sido por sobor-
no, pensó, que se le hubiera conferido tan grande honor. l'ara
asegurarlo, hizo un viaje largo de la provincia de Etchu a la
de Sagami, para interrogar a Masamuné, decidido a matarlo,
en caso de no obtener una satisfacción.
Cuando se oyeron los vigorosos martillazos sobre un yun-
que, Yoshihiro se dió cuenta de que había llegado a las cerca-
nías de la fragua de su rival. Se aproximó sin ruido a la ven-
tana y se asomó hacia dentro, donde estaba trabajando Masa-
muné. Al principio se sintió confundido, pero luego sus rece-
los y su cólera se desvanecieron repentinamente. Empujando
la puerta, fué derecho al forjador, se postró delante de él, 
humildemente le suplicó lo tomara como discípulo.
"Debo confesar—dijo—que anduve todo este camino, desde
Etchu, para venir a mataros; pero me doy cuenta, con ver-
güenza, de que no soy vuestro competidor. Como me gusta el
aké, lo tomo trabajando, y en el calor del verano, me desnu-
do hasta la cintura. En cambio, encuentro vuestro taller co-
mo un templo sagrado, con todos sus rincones purificados."
Yoshihiro se sintió muy impresionado por el vestido de ce-
remonial que llevaban, no sólo Masamuné, sino también sus
104

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.99)
ayudantes, y por el hecho de que el secreto de su éxito se re-
velaba en la solemnidad con que él ponía todo su ser en cada
golpe de su martillo.
"Estoy avergonzado de mi presunción—le dijo a Masamu-
né—. No tenía idea de que había algo espiritual en el arte de
forjar espadas. La mera pericia no produce una obra ma-
gistral."
Y es interesante añadir que Yoshihiro fué uno de los tre
grandes forjadores de espadas del Japón.
Mas no hay necesidad de remontarse al pasado para ilus-
trarnos sobre el celo religioso de los artífices japoneses. Cuan-
do el método occidental de manufactura se introdujo en el
Japón, en las primeras épocas de la era de Meiji (1868-1912),
no había suficiente capital para montar grandes fábricas y fi-
nos equipos, además de que se carecía de técnicos y operarios
competentes. Se tuvo que luchar desesperadamente en las pe-
queñas y pobremente montadas plantas, que fueron la cuna
de las gigantescas de hoy. Que la lucha acabó en victoria, de-
be atribuirse a algo más que a la simple suerte.
En el ramo de hilados y tejidos de algodón, se dice que el
Japón está amenazando a Inglaterra; pero cuando la primera
pequeña planta se estableció allá en 1863, todo se tenía que
aprender de Manchester. El aprendizaje continuó por años;
hoy no es ningún secreto que cualquier fábrica de hilados ja-
ponesa está operada con más eficiencia, y es más fuerte finan-
cieramente, que cualquiera semejante de Laneashire. Para ex-
plicar este hecho hay que ir más allá de lo que se refiere a los
bajos costos de fabricación, debidos a la baratura de vida en el
Japón, que no servirían de nada si los operarios no fuesen in-
105

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.99)
teligentes y devotos de su trabajo. Algo del espíritu de Yoshi-
hiro arraiga en los.trabajadores japoneses.
Sea lo que fuere, el volumen del comercio exterior del Ja-
pón, solamente asciende a la cuarta parte del de Gran Bretaña,
y el mundo no tiene por qué alarmarse por esto. Un pais no
puede acaparar todo, y la mutua concesión debe ser el princi-
pio dirigente en el trato internacional.
(“El Universal", 7 de julio de 1936.)
100

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.99)
El Problema del
Extremo Oriente
Recientemente han ocurrido frecuentes conflictos en las
fronteras de Manchukuo con Mongolia y con la Unión Sovié-
tica, causando en el mundo la inpresión de que una nueva gue-
rra rusojaponesa está cerca. Como se dice que estos choques
tienen su origen principalmente en cuestiones de límites, la co-
lisión en grande escala, registrada en marzo último, en un lu-
gar llamado Chang-Ling-Tsu. próximo a Corea, es un caso tí-
pico de estos conflictos y caracterizó al mismo tiempo la acti-
tud positiva del Soviet. El resumen del suceso es el siguiente:
El 25 de marzo, como a las ocho y media de la mañana,
cuatro oficiales japoneses (un médico militar inelusive) eon
cineo clases y soldados, llegaron a un punto de observación
habitualmente usado como tal, dentro del territorio de Man-
chukuo, con el objeto de inspeccionar la frontera. De repen-
te fueron tiroteados por un destacamento de G. P. U., que e
componía más o menos de veinte hombres, quienes cruzaron la
línea divisoria para atacarlos, resultando en el lado japonés dos
oficiales y un sargento heridos y un médico militar y un solda-
do desaparecidos. Cerca del mediodía, la guarnición japonesa
107

=== Page 442 === (confidence 1.00)
estacionada en Honchun, a distancia de 14 kilómetros del lugar
del incidente, mandó cuarenta hombres de refuerzo, los cuales
después de ocupar los puntos estratégicos sobre la línea fron-
teriza, y enarbolando la bandera blanca, trataron de confe-
renciar con los soviets, a fin de buscar a los perdidos. Aqué.
los, que al principio parecían inclinados a aceptar la plática,
pasadas las cuatro de la tarde y cuando habían aumentado su
efectivo en 150 hombres aproximadamente, empezaron de nue-
vo a tirotear a los japoneses y los obligaron a contestar el
fuego, retirándose luego a sus "tochikas"—fortines gruesos de
cemento. Como parecía que los desaparecidos habían sido
muertos atrozmente por los rojos, los nipones les demandaron
la entrega de los cadáveres, pero tardaron mucho en hacerla.
No se ha publicado aún si hubo en efecto matanza o no.
Sin embargo, todos los que conocen la reputación del ejército
rojo no pueden menos que sospechar que sí la hubo; pero aun
en el supuesto de que tal cosa no sucedió, no podrá negarse la
actitud positivamente agresiva de los soviets.
Como los partidos comunistas de todos los países condenan
y atacan el imperialismo, se creería fácilmente que su líder,
que es nada menos que la Unión Soviética misma——pues son
los estadistas bolcheviques que dirigen el partido comunista
soviético—, es una nación muy pacifista, pero los hechos de-
muestran precisamente lo contrario.
Aunque la invasión rusa del Extremo Oriente, iniciada con
la incursión de los cosacos en la Siberia, al final del siglo XVI,
fué en un tiempo contrariada por la guerra rusojaponesa, Ru-
sia había ya logrado apoderarse de la vasta región de Siberia.
No hay que olvidar, de paso, que Francia apoyaba entonces
esta política agresiva de Rusia.
Al desaparecer en Rusia el régimen imperialista en 1917 y
108

=== Page 443 === (confidence 1.00)
EL CENTRO COMERCIAL DE TOKIO

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.99)
organizarse la Unión Soviética de hoy, el agresivismo ruso ha
adoptado una nueva técnica; pero su política agresiva no se
ha alterado para nada; antes bien, ha tomado otro giro aun
más peligroso. Por ejemplo: aunque Petersburgo cambió su
nombre por el de Leningrado, el de Vladivostok, que significa
"invasión del Oriente", permanece inalterado. El invasionismo
soviético declaró la guerra con las palabras de Lenín en el
sentido de que "la revolución mundial se decide en el Oriente".
Desde que la Rusia roja comenzó, en 1921, a sentar la mano
en la Mongolia Exterior, pudo establecer en 1924, la Repúbli-
(a de Mongolia, y de hecho la está sujetando a su poder.
En 1928 incitó a un levantamiento comunista en Hsin Kiang,
 aunque se frustró aquella vez, en 1934 pudo hacerlo, soste-
niendo a Shen Shih-tsai. Se afirma que últimamente ha cele-
brado un convenio secreto de defensa mutua y ayuda econó-
mica con esa comarca. En la propia China ha venido apoyan-
do al partido comunista y ha procurado convertirla en roja,
siendo notable sus actividades particularmente en la región
de Shan-hsi, últimamente.
En estas circunstancias, sólo las fronteras de Manchukuo
podrán permanecer inmunes de la invasión del Soviet? Hace
unos meses que corría la voz de que las tropas de Mongolia,
al amparo de los aeroplanos del ejército rojo, se atrevieron a
invadir el territorio de Manchukuo. Se dice que el agregado
militar de la Unión Soviética en los Estados Unidos ha declara-
do en fecha reciente que los preparativos bélicos de aquella
Unión han terminado; Francia está observando la misma ac-
titud pro soviética como lo hiciera anteriormente a la guerra
rusojaponesa. Se han completado ahora las condiciones para
que la Rusia Soviética pueda actuar más positivamente en el
Extremo Oriente.
109

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.98)
La hábil propaganda moscovita podrá producir en el mun-
do la más favorable impresión para sí misma, en lo concer-
niente a los aspectos parciales de las cuestiones fronterizas;
pero no podrá ocultar los hechos arriba descritos que consti-
tuyen el verdadero fundamento del problema de que se trata.
("El Universal", 17 de abril de 1936.)
110

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.99)
El Espiritu Militar
Japonés
El día 26 de febrero del presente año, estalló al improviso
un caso de extrema magnitud, que en los anales del Ejército
japonés nunca se había visto antes, y que motivó la procla-
mación del Estado de Sitio, temiéndose por unos días se pro-
dujera la desgracia de que en el mismo ejército combatieran
unos contra otros.
Las tropas que provocaron el disturbio, bajo el mando de
impetuosos oficiales jóvenes, llenos de bríos, y marchando en
la nieve, asaltaron a varios altos funcionarios de importantes
posiciones; y ocupando luego algunos hoteles y restaurantes,
no parecían dispuestos a regresar a sus cuarteles. Sus jefes
fueron a disuadirlos de sus intentos, pero no se rindieron;
y fueron finalmente considerados como rebeldes, estando en
vísperas de ser atacados por las fuerzas capitaneadas por el Co-
mandante del Sitio.
No ebstante, la sumisión repentina de estos sublevados no
se puede atribuir a la amenaza de un próximo ataque, sino a
las pocas palabras transmitidas por radio, comunicándoles que
"ya se había expedido la Orden Imperial, mandándoles volvie-
ran a sus pespectivos cuerpos".
Es verdaderamente asombroso que este caso sin preceden-
te, que fué noticiado por los corresponsales extranjeros como
si se tratara de la premisa de una gran revolución, hubiese
111

=== Page 447 === (confidence 1.00)
quedado tan fácilmente resuelto con semejante mensaje. A me-
nos de ser japonés, nadie podrá comprender el significado de
este singular acontecimiento.
Sin embargo, la solución del problema es sencillísima; bas-
ta con decir que los japoneses poseen la firme creencia de que
es absolutamente imposible el contrariar la voluntad de Su
Majestad, creencia que, durante dos mil seiscientos años que
abarca aproximadamente la historia japonesa, ha venido cul-
tivándose. Entretanto que perdure la adoración de la Casa
Imperial, el Japón nunca experimentará la amenaza o despre-
cio de los otros países, ni será afectado por ideas exóticas pe-
ligrosas; ésta es la fe inalterable de los japoneses en común.
Es absolutamente infundada la afirmación de un escritor
extranjero, que tiene delirio en malinterpretar las cosas ja-
ponesas, a efecto de que el finado Emperador Mutsuhito acon-
sejó a Toyama la organización secreta de "Kokuryakai"
—Dragón Negro—; que Toyama pasó a ser el consejero ínti-
mo del Emperador, y que su influencia se hizo sentir por en-
cima de los Ministros de Estado y Consejeros oficiales; que
cada vez que el Emperador se hallaba en duda acerca de al-
guna decisión de importancia, Toyama era llamado, y partía,
montado en un burro, desde su cabaña de bambú hacia el Pa-
lacio Imperial, etc., etc. Esta aseveración, aunque no deja de
ser poética, está en directa oposición a la Constitución del
Japón, otorgada por el mismo Emperador Mutsuhito, y a la
nacionalidad japonesa arriba descrita sucintamente. Nótese
que en el Japón no existe ni un burro.
A propósito del caso del 26 de febrero, y puesto que sé bien
que mis estimados amigos mexicanos abrigan el mismo con-
112

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.99)
cepto de los actos heroicos, quisiera insertar algunos episodios
en relación con el acaecimiento último.
Uno de los cabecillas de la asonada, jefe de una compañía,
tan pronto como conoció la Orden Imperial transmitida por
radio, congregó en seguida a sus seguidores, en un cuarto del
hotel, y les dió orden irrevocable de retornar a su regimiento.
Como todos los subordinados podían sentir la intención del
jefe, lamentaban la separación, pero frente a la palabra "or-
den" no pudieron menos de dejar con lágrimas a su capitán;
apenas hubieron salido del cuarto, se oyeron detonaciones de
pistola...
Un sargento del Primer Regimiento de Infantería cometió
suicidio, mientras se preparaban para el ataque a los rebel-
des, pues encontrando entre los traidores de hoy, a un capitán
de quien había recibido la bondadosa enseñanza militar, y ha-
llándose en el dilema de cumplir con su deber a la patria y con
el de la gratitud hacia su antiguo jefe, escogió la muerte. En
su carta póstuma decía que lamentaba infinitamente no haber
podido cumplir sus deberes filiales con su adorada madre.
Hay sobradas muestras del tradicional heroísmo japonés
que dieron los funcionarios asesinados, sus familiares y sus
guardias, que no tienen cabida en este corto artículo.
Diríase que no es propio el acordarse, en esta fausta oca-
sión de celebrarse el Natalicio Imperial, de este infeliz suceso,
pero como el caso presenta con elocuencia el buen ejemplo del
sentimiento japonés, sobre todo de la lealtad japonesa para con
el Augusto Soberano, lo he elegido como materia de este ar-
tículo.
(“El Nacional", 29 de abril de 1936.)
113

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.99)
El Modernismo en
el Japón
A despecho de los grandes intereses que se han despertado
entre las naciones occidentales, en la realización cultural del
Japón, parece que existe un concepto erróneo, respecto a la
diferencia entre la cultura continental y la puramente japone-
sa. Como consecuencia, se oyen repetidas veces las expresio-
nes de desilusión que sienten los visitantes del Occidente, al
no hallar en el Japón aquellas cosas "orientales" que habían es-
perado encontrar. El Japón actual está demasiado occiden-
talizado, aun demasiado modernizado, para armonizar con su
concepto anticipado del Extremo Oriente. El Japón, tal como
lo presentan los cartelones y anuncios de las agencias del tu-
rismo de Europa y América, no es el Japón de realidad; es
meramente un eco del Continente asiático.
Es indiscutible que la cultura japonesa tuvo su origen en
el Continente asiático, pero, en el presente, la cultura del Ja-
pón se distingue tan anchamente de la del Continente, como
la cultura inglesa difiere de las demás naciones del Continen-
te europeo. Los japoneses basaron todas sus instituciones en
las del Continente; desarrollaron un estilo chino de arquitec-
114

=== Page 450 === (confidence 1.00)
tura; aprendieron el arte chino de la poesía; interpretarom
la filosofía china y adoptaron las artes y las religiones del
Continente. No obstante, la adopción se había hecho por un
proceso de inteligente adaptación, de manera que, hoy día, el
Japón y los japoneses tienen distintas características muy
propias.
De lo que decimos, se puede deducir que la cultura japo-
nesa está lejos de ser indígena en su origen, pero, pensando
así, ninguna nación puede, en el orden natural de las cosas,
ser absolutamente independiente: los contactos con otras na-
ciones son inevitables, no existe una cultura pura y aislada en
su totalidad; es por el proceso de la observación, de los ensa-
yos y de errores, por lo que una cultura claramente definible
asume sus sólidos contornos. Un estudio de la historia euro-
pea confirmará estos hechos. Por lo que toca a los japoneses,
su adopción de cultura continental sirvió como un tónico a su
propia cultura; ello no destruyó ni borró enteramente la cul-
tura independiente que había ya existido.
El Japón mantuvo contactos con los países extranjeros,
especialmente con China, por miles de años; bajo el Gobierno
de Shogunato Tokugawa, teóricamente cerró sus puertas a la
comunicación extranjera, por un período de unos doscientos
años; sin embargo, aun durante este tiempo de aislamiento y
de exclusión, el Japón mantenía relaciones comerciales con
China y con países europeos, bajo un sistema de riguroso con-
trol estatal. Separado como estuvo de las principales fuentes
de cultura mundial, durante el período Tokugawa, el pueblo
japonés llegó a estar aún más ansioso de estudiar y asimilar
cualquiera filtración de nuevas ideas extranjeras, y, conse-
cuentemente, los japoneses vinieron a ser hábiles en copiar lo
fundamental de la cultura extranjera, aunque, naturalmente,
115

=== Page 451 === (confidence 1.00)
la palabra copiar no sea exactamente propia para este caso.
Holanda era la que únicamente tenía permiso para comunicar-
se con el Japón, durante aquellos años de aislamiento, y quie-
nes tuvieron el privilegio de conocer a los enviados holandeses
y sus séquitos en Yedo y en Nagasaki, ávidamente procuraron
aprender la medicina, las matemáticas, la geografía y la as.
tronomía con estos visitantes. En tal manera, la cultura occi-
dental llegó primero al Japón; y, en vista de la recepción
acordada a nuevas ideas, y de la subsecuente historia de la
cultura japonesa, parecería que el pueblo japonés tiene un
genio natural asimilativo. Tanto las ideas occidentales como
las chinas fueron aceptadas sin destruir la textura de cultura
japonesa.
Es difícil para los occidentales inteligentes, así como para
los japoneses cultos, el diferenciar claramente la cultura ja-
ponesa de la de los chinos. Es claro. sin embargo, que los japo-
neses han logrado desarrollar sus facultades imitativas, hasta
el grado de que han creado actualmente una cultura sintética,
compuesta de ideas indígenas y extranjeras; en efecto, en los
días anteriores a la civilización occidental, los japoneses since-
ramente copiaron y adoptaron la cultura china, y muchos de
ellos pensaron realmente que las resultantes innovaciones cul-
turales eran efectivamente la cultura japonesa, pura y senci-
lla. Algunos estudiantes japoneses de aquella época, penetra-
ron tan hondamente en el estudio de la literatura china, que
ellos pudieron dominar todos los tintes y finuras de ese géne-
ro literario, hasta como si el chino fuese su propio idioma
nativo.
Pero las composiciones chinas, por interesantes que fue-
sen, no concordaban enteramente con las ideas japonesas; de
modo que, en el décimo siglo, aproximadamente, el lenguaje
116

=== Page 452 === (confidence 1.00)
vernáculo llegó a ser popular entre el pueblo japonés. En esta
etapa del idioma nipón se nota claramente cómo el japonés
logró el establecimiento de una nueva literatura propia, y có-
mo, también, sus pensamientos, instituciones, arquitectura,
maneras y costumbres, etc., se desenvolvieron,al grado de ser
lo que han llegado a alcanzar hoy en día. Al mismo tiempo
debe notarse que la cultura que los japoneses habían asidua-
mente creado para ellos mismos, era a menudo difícil de tra-
zar, siendo únicamente la espuma superficial de la cultura
importada la que se podía reconocer, peculiaridad que fué aún
más acentuada durante la Era de Meiji (1868-1911), en la que
empezó una vigorosa introducción de la civilización occidental.
Si examinamos las primeras etapas de lo que se puede lla-
mar la "Era Imitativa" de la historia japonesa, encontrare-
mos varios casos de la peculiaridad mencionada en el párrafo
que precede. En el campo de la arquitectura, por ejemplo,
dos muestras surgen desde luego: el templo de Horyuji cerca
de Nara, uno de los más antiguos edificios de madera que
data más de 1,300 años, y la puerta Yomei en Nikko. Se cree
que el templo Horyuji fué construído conforme al modelo de
similares estructuras en China; no obstante, nada queda visi-
ble que sea sugestivo de estilos y gustos japoneses de los no-
bles y ciudadanos de aquella civilización indígena del Japón.
Tal anomalía nos hace comprender que los occidentales deben
encontrar casi imposible el obtener un conocimiento funda-
mental de la cultura japonesa, especialmente, cuando aun los
mismos japoneses encuentran en este fenómeno superficial una
cuestión complicada, cuestión que les hace sentir la dificultad
de descubrir algún significado más hondo en la cultura japo-
nesa. La famosa Yomei-Mon de Nikko es, desde el punto de
vista estético y de cultura, una estructura que revela un gusto
117

=== Page 453 === (confidence 1.00)
horriblemente vulgar. Es cosa singular, sin embargo, que la
puerta de Yomei sea estimada como un ejemplar del refina-
miento cultural japonés, no sólo por los visitantes extranjeros,
sino también por los japoneses mismos. La única explicación
posible es que los espectadores no entienden claramente por
qué y cómo la puerta Yomei es una monstruosidad arquitectu-
ral dentro del modo de ver puramente japonés.
De todo esto, los japoneses deben ser directamente respon-
sables. Después de la Era de Meiji (1868-1911) la tendencia
de adoptar las nuevas manifestaciones de la civilización occi-
dental, fué tan marcada, que hoy, algo que sea culturalmente
japonés, como lo que se ve superficialmente en la sociedad, lo
toman por modernismo. No es de extrañar, en presencia de
tales hechos, que los turistas occidentales se vean desilusiona-
dos cuando buscan en el Japón cosas orientales, o aun precisa-
mente cosas japonesas.
El modernismo es, en el sentide estricto de la palabra, una
nueva forma de civilización efectuada por un precipitado cam-
bio de la vida nacional. Pero, en el Japón, debido a una cos-
tumbre nacional, la palabra parece tener una connotación en-
teramente distinta.
El japonés nunca ha dejado de observar algo nuevo en los
países extranjeros, ha copiado todo lo que ha aceptado; en
algunos casos no ha tenido necesidad de elaborar nada para
sí mismo, puesto que ya lo encontraba hecho. Frente al ímpe-
tu de la vida moderna, el japonés frecuentemente ha sobrepu-
jado a sus maestros occidentales, debido a un cuidadoso siste.
ma de copiar, inventar, desarrollar y elaborar cualquier cosa
de las que necesita en su vida nacional. Ninguna otra nación
parece haber adoptado el modernismo extranjero tan impetuo-
samente como la japonesa. En cuanto a la literatura, por
118

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.99)
«jemplo, cuando el nombre de James Joyee se escucbó por ves
primera en el Japón, algunos años ha, cualquier joven literato
que no conociera ampliamente las obras de ese eseritor inglés,
era visto con desdén; cuando Gide alcanzó fama en Franeia,
tuvo inmediatamente un gran número de imitadores en el Ja-
pón. Una nueva tendencia de pensamiento llega a ser un in-
evitable elemento del modernismo literal; además, a pesar de
la fundamental diferencia entre la lengua japonesa y las
occidentales, hay muchos ejemplos de buenas traduceiones de
pensamientos occidentales, especialmente en la forma de no-
velas y poemas.
Todas las formas del modernismo occidental han sido, y
probablemente seguirán siendo recibidas en el Japón con -
tusiasmo. Es curioso observar, empero, que las novedades de
ese género han vivido poco, aún menos que en los países de su
origen; pensamientos e ideas visitan nuestras costas como un
huracán para alejarse en seguida. En la línea de arquitectura,
los japoneses no vacilan en construir las semipermanentes -
tructuras de estilo caprichoso de corta vida en la construeción
moderna. Como resultado, todas las ciudades japonesas exhi-
ben una gran variedad de concepciones arquitecturales. En
Tokio y Osaka, más especialmente, hay muchos llamados edifi-
cios modernos, que parecen estar increpándonos por nuestra
impetuosidad, con su malcarada promesa de permanencia.
En la filosofía, también, el Japón se encuentra en una posi-
ción única en su género; no hay filosofía en el sentido occiden-
tal de la palabra. El pueblo japonés, sin embargo, tiene una
afición innata a las prácticas manifestaciones de filosofía en
todas las actividades de la vida, aunque no ha hecho sino bien
poco progreso en el estudio de filosofía, considerada como teo-
rías ideológicas. Resulta, por lo tanto, que la filosofía japo-
119

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.99)
nesa se debe buscar en la moralidad, en las artes, en la vida
militar, en las diversiones, etc., del pueblo. Esto quiere decir,
por supuesto, que hay filosofía práctica, pero no virtualmen-
te abstracta en el Japón. Respecto a la filosofía como una
ideología, el japonés, durante algunos siglos pasados, se arre-
gló para copiar ideas de China e India, como hoy las copia del
Occidente. El resultado es una interesante mezcla. Por ejem-
plo, al exponer el Shinto—el camino de dioses—se acude fre-
cuentemente a las filosofías de Hegel y Bergson. En la Edad
Media, el Shinto fué interpretado por las filosofías de China
e India.
En la esfera de diversiones, el baile de estilo europeo ha
llegado a ser popular en ciertas secciones, pero aun no ha ve-
nido a ser epidémico entre las masas; las operetas y revistaa
a la moda americana han tenido considerable éxito; nuevas
romanzas cantadas con acompañamiento de instrumentos ja-
poneses y europeos, y con melodías japonesas así como occi-
dentales, están ganando terreno, y los cinemas han hecho un
conjunto técnico y popular.
Qué clase de cultura japonesa se desarrollará finalmente
de este encuentro de intereses en pugna? Es imposible pre-
decirlo, pero los japoneses no son pesimistas, pues están firmes
en su convicción de que tienen algo vigoroso y definitivamen-
te suyo, que podrán dar al mundo tarde o temprano. Mien-
tras tanto, no hay razón de ser para abjurar o descartar el
modernismo occidental, que les ha ayudado inmensamente en
su rápido avance a la primera fila de las naciones.
("El Hogar", 16 de septiembre de 1936.)
120

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.99)
El Soviet y el Japón
"Si el Japón se atreve a atacar la República de Mongolia
Exterior y pretende destruir su independencia, tenemos que
ayudar a esa República", dijo Stalin en la entrevista que con-
cedió el 1º de marzo de 1936, a Roy Howard, representante de
los períodicos Scripps-Howard, de los Estados Unidos. Apenas
pasaron dos semanas; el pacto soviet-mongol de mutua ayuda
se firmó en Ulambator el 12 del mismo mes, y su texto fué
publicado el 7 de abril próximo pasado. Estos hechos indican
la línea de política que la Rusia Soviética persigue con respec-
to a la Mongolia Exterior, política que no deja de afectar pro-
fundamente las relaciones soviet-japonesas, y que ha dado lu-
gar en todas partes a predicciones de inminente guerra entre
las dos naciones.
Durante los últimos años, después de la renovación de las
relaciones diplomáticas entre Japón y Rusia, en virtud de la
Convención de Pekín de 1925, las relaciones entre los dos paí-
ses han pasado por tres distintas etapas. La primera fué mar-
cada por favorables desarrollos, con el recíproco comercio
creciente año tras año, aunque en cada estación pesquera de
los mares del Norte se repitieron las disputas entre las dos
121

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.99)
potencias. La segunda llegó en el otoño de 1990, a raíz del
incidente de Manchuria, y las relaciones soviet-japonesas to-
maron un repentino giro hacia lo peor, y muchas veces ame-
nasaban con una ruptura, debido & una serie de dificultades
en conexión con Manchukuo. A pesar de todo, la actitud de
Moseú se mostró conciliatoria, y la U. S. S. R. propuso un pac-
to de no-agresión al Japón, y ofreció la venta del Ferrocarril
Chino del Este, conjurando así una crisis.
La tercera etapa y el pésimo período en las relaciones so-
viet-japonesas, comenzó en los primeros meses del año pasado,
cuando estallaron las dificultades fronterizas entre Manchu-
kuo y Mongolia Exterior. No obstante la actitud conciliato-
ria hacia Manchukuo, Moscú está listo para recurrir a la gue-
rra contra todo designio sobre la Mongolia Exterior, como lo
evidencian las declaraciones de Stalin y el pacto soviet-mongol
de mutua ayuda antes mencionados. La paz del Extremo
Oriente parece ahora depender del problema de Mongolia Ex-
terior.
El problema de Mongolia, sin embargo, no es nuevo. La
Mongolia Exterior es geográficamente una mejor vecina de
Rusia que de China, y desde el punto de vista social-económico,
e una fácil presa a la sovietización. Esto está probado por va-
rios acontecimientos. En 1920, Urga fué invadida por una
banda de soldados blancos de Rusia, quienes a su vez fueron
desterrados de la capital mongólica por las tropas soviéticas,
y un nuevo régimen fué establecido por el Partido Popular de
Mongolia con la ayuda soviética. A este sacudimiento político
siguió la firma del tratado soviet-mongol, en Moscú, en el oto-
ño de 1921; tratado que, mientras reconoce la independencia
de la Mongolia Exterior, la pone bajo el gobierno virtual de
la Rusia Soviética.
122

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.99)
Nominalmente, el gobierno de Mongolia Exterior queda en
manos del Partido Popular de Mongolia; pero el apoderamien-
to soviético de esta parte de China ha Hegado a ser notoria-
mente firme en los últimos quince años, especialmente desde
que el ala izquierda del referido Partido asumió el poder, algu-
nos años después de la inauguración del nuevo régimen. A
despecho de su obvio control de la Mongolia Exterior, Moscá
prefería, hasta hace poco, quedar detrás de la escena, y como
impedía al Gobierno de la Mongolia Exterior tener contacto
directo con cualquiera otra Potencia que no fuera Rusia So-
viética, las relaciones entre estos dos países han sido un com-
pleto misterio para los extraños. Esta política de secreto de
parte de Moscú fué probablemente dictada por los términos
del Pacto chino-soviet, negociado por el doctor Wellington
Eoo y M. Kharahan en Pekín en 1924, que asegura la sobera-
ría china sobre aquella región y, por esta razón, no animaba
s Moscú a obrar abiertamente respecto a la misma comarca
mongólica.
El abandono reciente de esta política de secreto por Moscú,
evidenciada por las declaraciones de Stalin y por la publica-
ción del Pacto de mutua ayuda, puede atribuirse en mucho 
tres circunstancias. En primer lugar, las relaciones entre Man-
chukuo y Mongolia han empeorado notoriamente, a cansa de
las dificultades fronterizas; en segundo, la situación del Ex-
tremo Oriente se ha desarrollado de tal manera, que marca
una clara división entre los grupos Rojo y anti Rojo de las na-
ciones; en tercero, la Rusia Soviética ha aumentado grande-
mente sus fuerzas de defensa, como resultado de sus sucesivos
planes quinquenales.
La frontera entre Manchukuo y Mongolia Exterior, que se
extiende a más de 700 kilómetros, no está claramente demar-
123

=== Page 459 === (confidence 1.00)
cada en varias secciones; pocos mongoles nómadas saben lo
que es una frontera; y existen pocos lindes naturales o artifi-
ciales. Por lo tanto, es natural que hayan sucedido perturba-
ciones en la frontera, entre el recién establecido imperio de
Manchukuo y la Mongolia Exterior. Las negociaciones diplo-
máticas han servido poco para arreglar semejantes disputas.
La Conferencia mongol-manchúa que se inició en Manchouli
en mayo de 1935, levantó sus sesiones después de seis meses,
sin ningún provecho. Los puntos principales de la agenda
eran el arreglo para el intercambio de plenipotenciarios di-
plomáticos entre los dos países, y el nombramiento de una
comisión permanente para resolver las disputas fronterizas er
el lugar. El fracaso final llegó cuando se supo que la Mon-
golia Exterior nunca estuvo dispuesta a recibir a un plenipo
tenciario del Manchukuo en Ulambator. Mientras tanto, d
Primer Ministro y el Ministro de Guerra de Mongolia Exte
rior visitaron Moscú hacia el fin del año pasado, dizque para
discutir las medidas de cooperación con los líderes soviéticos,
para resistir la presión del Japón y del Manchukuo. El mo-
vimiento autónomo que estalló casi al mismo tiempo en el Nor-
te de China, fué probablemente discutido por los líderes soviet-
mongoles durante sus conferencias.
Al regresar a Ulambator el Primer Ministro mongol y su
eomitiva, se agravó seriamente la situación, tanto en la fron-
tera manchú-mongólica como en el Norte de China. Estos cam-
bios aparentemente se combinaron para expeditar el pacto
soviet-mongol de mutua ayuda, firmado en Ulambator el 12 de
marzo de 1936. Casi simultáneamente, una columna del Ejér-
cito Rojo de China lanzó una expedición contra Shansi, segu-
ramente con el consentimiento de Nankín. Este nuevo des-
arrollo no dejó de atraer la atención de muchos observadores,
124

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.99)
quienes ven en ello una indicación de que todo el Extremio
Oriente está siendo dividido en dos antagónicos bloques polí-
ticos, el uno rojo y el otro anti rojo, agregando de esta manera
otro peligro de contienda entre el Japón y la Unión Soviética.
El reciente aumento de recursos y armamento de Rusia,
que debe haber contribuído parcialmente a la tensión provo-
cada por el apoderamiento soviético de la Mongolia Exterior,
es realmente asombroso. El primer plan quinquenal, completa-
do al final de 1932, aumentó la producción industrial a 42 "bi-
llones" de rublos y la agrícola a 13.1 "billones", y estas cifras
van a subir a 52.7 y 62.2 "billones", respectivamente, para fi-
nes de 1937, al terminar el segundo plan quinquenal. Es muy
aparatoso el reciente progreso soviético en industrias pasadas;
de todos los países industriales del mundo, Rusia reclama
ahora el primer lugar en la manufactura de herramientas
agrícolas, el segundo en la producción de petróleo y hierro en
lingotes, el tercero en la fuerza eléctrica y acero, y el cuarto
en carbón. Tal progreso ha facilitado naturalmente el relleno
de armamentos, y el Gobierno móscovita desembolsó 5 "billo-
nes" de rublos en 1934, y 6.2 "billones" en 1935, para la de-
fensa nacional, y el presupuesto de 1936 para el mismo fin
sube a 14.8 billones de rublos. La Unión Soviética se jacta de
poseer el más grande ejército del mundo, al ser el Ejército
rojo permanente aumentado a dizque hasta 1.300,000 oficiales
y hombres en 1935, de los 940,000 que tenía en 1934.
Que la Rusia Soviética quiere estar preparada para pelear
contra el Japón y Alemania, ha sido hecho del dominio públi-
co por las autoridades soviéticas durante estos últimos años.
En el Séptimo Congreso Soviético y en la última sesión de la
Comisión Central Soviética, el Subcomisario de Guerra insistió
enfáticamente en la necesidad de prepararse contra los ataques
125

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.99)
simultáneos por el Japón y Alemania. :Además, en todos sen-
tidos, con el propósito de defenderse contra estas dos poten-
eias, la Rusia Soviética se unió a la Liga de Naciones y adqui-
rió varios compromisos con otros países. Parece, pues, que
está alineándose con Francia contra Alemania, y con China
contra el Japón. En vez de ser una bete noire de la familia
de naciones, la Unión Soviética está ahora siendo amiga de
algunas potencias capitalistas, haciendo posible para ella el
hecho de verse envuelta en una guerra imperialista. Inciden-
talmente, su alineamiento con Francia y Checoeslovaquia en el
Oeste, y con Mongolia Exterior y el Ejército Rojo de China,
en el Este, puede posiblemente resultar en provecho de la Gran
Bretaña, los Estados Unidos y otros países. Sin codiciar ni
una pulgada de territorio extranjero, como asegura Stalin, la
Rusia Soviética puede que rechace todos los designios impe-
rialistas en su asociación con otras potencias; pero nadie sabe
qué resultados pueda traer su política actual. Ha llegado a
ser un factor en la línea imperialista, y nadie puede decir a
dónde la va a llevar esa actitud.
Así puede decir que las cinco diferentes líneas de desarro-
llo se combinan para apuntar a las adversas relaciones entre
el Japón y la Unión Soviética: en primer lugar, las relacio-
nes manchukuo-mongolas están volviéndose peores, debido a
las dificultades fronterizas; en segundo, las dificultades entre
Manchukuo y Mongolia conducirán a los mongoles a depender
más y más de Moscú para su cooperación; en tercero, el movi-
miento autónomo en el Norte de China y la expedición anti
Shansi del Ejército Rojo de China pueden posiblemente pre-
cipitar la división del Asia Oriental en dos grupos: Rojo y anti
Rojo, dirigidos respectivamente por la Rusia Soviética y el Ja-
pón; en cuarto, la Unión Soviética ha desarrollado últimamen-
126

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.99)
te sus recursos, y su Ejército está preparado para cualquiera
emergencia. Finalmente Rusia ha perfeccionado su seguridad
en Europa con la firma de un pacto de mutua ayuda com
Francia, y está ahora en libertad para tomar una positiva ao-
ción en el Extremo Oriente.
Esto, sin embargo, no significa necesariamente un inmedia-
to peligro de guerra entre el Japón y la Rusia Soviética. Es
difícil concebir que la Unión Soviética emprenda una guerra
agresiva contra el Japón, por bien preparada que esté. Por
ahora, cuando menos, las verdaderas intenciones de Moscú pue-
den ser interpretadas como un anhelo de paz, combinada con
la preparación para defender el país y sus intereses contra un
ataque. Como Karl Radek dice, es probable que, en caso de
una nueva guerra mundial, la Rusia Soviética simplemente sea
un espectador, en lugar de tomar parte en ella.
En cuanto a la relativa importancia de las fronteras oc-
cidental y oriental para Rusia, Lenín personalmente dijo,
en 1920, a Katsuji Fusé, entonces corresponsal de "Tokio
Nichi-Nichi" en Moscú, que el verdadero comunismo podía
tener éxito solamente en el Occidente, y en 1925 le dijo tam-
bién que el Occidente era el frente de la U. S. S. R., y el Orien-
te su retaguardia. Si este parecer aún subsiste, Rusia debe
estar pensando más en el frente occidental que en el oriental.
Su atención, con todo, variará entre los dos frentes, de acuer-
do con la relativa importancia de la siutación que prevalezca
en uno y otro lado.
La política del Japón no debe consistir ni en exagerar ni
en menospreciar la amenaza rusa en el Oriente; pues exage-
rándola nos llevaría a tomar una actitud intransigente para
con las cuestiones pendientes, lo que inevitablemente significa-
ría la erupción de hostilidades; y, menospreciándola, por el
127

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.97)
contrario, nos conduciría a concentrar nuestra atención en los
asuntos chinos, e ignorar los alineamientos diplomáticos del
Soviet. Lo que tenemos que hacer es no omitir esfuerzo alguno
para arreglar las disputas pendientes con la U. S. S. R., mien-
tras al mismo tiempo fortalecemos nuestra posición diplomá-
tica y militar, para hacer frente a cualesquiera contingencias.
("El Universal", 16 de septiembre de 1936.)
128

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.99)
El Alma del Japón
Qué es el Japón? Esta es la cuestión que se ha planteado
repetidas veces. Siempre que el Japón viene a la delantera,
en conexión con algún acontecimiento, no importa en qué par-
te del mundo, la misma pregunta se insinúa en la mente oc-
cidental.
Algunos dicen que el Japón ha sido completamente occi-
dentalizado desde el siglo pasado. Aquellos que conocen el
Japón por las guías de viajero y por las fotografías, o que
han visto este país con sus propios ojos, sostienen por lo gene-
ral la misma opinión. Además, los extranjeros que han hecho
un estudio del Japón, declaran generalmente que el Japón no
tiene ninguna cultura que pueda llamarse suya propia; pues,
a su modo de ver, la introducción del budismo puso rna ca-
racterística budista sobre la cultura japonesa, y la civilización
china fué trasplantada en su integridad en suelo japonés, y
echó raíces y creció vigorosamente, mientras la importación
de la civilización occidental también podía significar única-
mente una cosa: la occidentalización del Japón. Todo esto no
es sino una verdad a medias. Los observadores que hacen ta-
les afirmaciones no pueden substraerse al cargo de ver la su-
129

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.99)
perficie solamente. Es cierto que la apariencia exterior del
Japón ha cambiado casi completamente, cuando menos en dos
ocasiones, como resultado de la influencia exterior; sin em-
bargo, hay una cosa que permanece inalterada, y es el alma
del Japón. Una verdadera comprensión de esta quintaesencia
es la clave de la japonología.
Qué es, entonces, el alma del Japón? Es el profundo y
constante sentimiento de gratitud y felicidad con que la na-
ción japonesa, en conjunto, ha respetado, desde los tiempos
más remotos, la santidad del Emperador, la dignidad de la
Casa Imperial y la gloria del carácter fundamental de su Im-
perio. Se puede asegurar, sin peligro de equivocarse, que nin-
guna otra nación del mundo es más consciente de su naciona-
lidad que la japonesa, que ni por un momento se olvida de las
relaciones que existen entre el Soberano y el súbdito, entre el
gobernante y el gobernado. Ese sentido de la constitución na-
eional es el alma del Japón. Ahora bien; examinemos, aunque
sea someramente, la historia del Japón, para enseñar hasta qué
grado esta alma resultó afectada por la introducción del bu-
dismo, del confucionismo y de la civilización europea.
La Historia fija la época de la llegada del budismo en 552
A. D., aproximadamente, en el reino del Emperador Kimmel.
Hablando de la cultura, la introducción de esta religión fué un
provecho inmenso. Infundido como era con la civilización de
China, Persia y la India, el budismo se acreditó en el Japón
por se rel constructor de la espléndida cultura del período
de Nara (710-784), particularmente brillante en el dominio de
artes y oficios. Algunas de las obras de arte producidas en
aquel período, se conservan aún en "Shosoin", la mundialmen-
te famosa casa de tesoros de Nara. Al examinar estos inapre-
ciables objetos, no puede uno menos que admitir cuán bene-
130

=== Page 466 === (confidence 1.00)
ficiosa fué la introducción del budismo y de la civilización de
la Dinastía Tang, para elevar la cultura del Japón.
En lo que respecta al alma del Japón, sin embargo, la im-
portación del budismo hizo más daño que bien. El pueblo del
Japón antiguo, antes de tener contacto con esta religión, se
caracterizaba por su simplicidad, su alegría y una inelinación
optimista de espíritu. Mas el lado pesimista, negativo y pa-
tético del budismo, no dejó de afectar su modo de ver acerca
de la vida. Tan así fué que la política de la época, y en ver-
dad todas las esferas de actividades sociales e intelectuales,
quedaban bajo su influencia.
En pos del budismo, la civilización china llegó a nuestras
costas de una manera integral. El confucionismo, o sistema
chino de filosofía, fué también una de aquellas cosas que an-
taño había cruzado los mares hacia el Nipón. Pero durante
la Edad Media permaneció inactivo, hasta que Iyeyasu (1542-
1616), fundador del Shogunato Tokugawa y gran patrón de
sabiduría y letras, erudición, etc., hizo que las obras clásicas
de Confucio se imprimeran. En los primeros días del perío-
do de Yedo, el estudio de estas clásicas estuvo en su apogeo y
tuvo la virtud de neutralizar la mala influencia que ejercía el
budismo. Empero, como es un sistema de filosofía que se había
desarrollado en el suelo chino, fertilizado con los toques y ca-
racterística de aquella nación, el confucionismo naturalmente
tiene algo incompatible con el espíritu japonés. Por consecuen-
cia natural, resultó finalmente tan nocivo como fué útil en su
etapa inicial.
El shintoísmo quedó eclipsado por el budismo y el confu-
cionismo, pero en el Shinto vivía siempre el alma del Japón.
Muchos literatos se esforzaron por erigir un nuevo Japón, por
estudiar la política, la vida y la mentalidad de sus compatrio-
131

=== Page 467 === (confidence 0.99)
tas de los días anteriores al período de Nara. Con este fin
acogieron a las clásicas japonesas, tales como el Kojiki y el
Nihonshoki. Hirata Atsutané (1776-1843) fué el más avanza-
do investigador y hasta dió un paso adelante para convertir
estas indagaciones en acción, abriendo así el camino para la
gran restauración de 1868. Sus estudios comprendieron, ade-
más de las clásicas japonesas, el budismo, confucionismo,
taoísmo y hasta la Biblia.
Una de las más importantes doctrinas propuestas por estos
estudiantes de la sabiduría nativa del Japón, fué la de la divi-
nidad del Tenno (Emperador) y su evidente derecho a recla-
mar la absoluta obediencia de cada uno de los súbditos japo-
neses. Su argumento era que la lealtad de un japonés no se
debía tanto a su inmediato jefe o Shogún, como al Descen-
diente de la Diosa Sol, y que cosas tales como el amor propio
y la facción no deberían, por lo tanto, hallar lugar en el sis-
tema político del país.
Tan altos y fuertes fueron esos propagandistas shintoístas
en su encomio de las virtudes del Tenno. y tanto insistieron
ellos en las bien marcadas relaciones entre el Soberano y el
pueblo, que sus doctrinas resultaron ser hostiles a la existen-
cia del Shogunato. Naturalmente, los exponentes de las doc-
trinas shintoístas fueron vistos con enfado por el Shogunato,
y muchos de ellos tuvieron difeultades con el Gobierno de
Shogún.
La otra influencia que pesó sobre el pueblo japonés fué
la de la civilización europea, que hizo su incursión en el Im-
perio japonés después de la Restauración de Meiji. No conde-
namos la introducción de esta civilización. En efecto, las ame-
nidades materiales que hizo posible el occidentalismo, trajeron
muchos bienes. En sí misma, la civilización europea estuvo le-
132

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.99)
jos de ser deprimente para el alma del Japón. Solamente el
individualismo, que forma la idea central de la cultura oeei-
dental, no armoniza con el alma del Japón; y así, el hecho de
que la idea individualista mantenida en la Constitueión, en
las leyes y en general en las estructuras económico-políticas
del Japón, dió lugar a toda clase de problemas graves. El Ja-
pón ha estado, y aún está, luchando por resolver tales proble-
mas.
Es de desear que los estudiantes extranjeros que quieran
conocer el Japón verdadero, se penetren en el fondo de todaa
estas circunstancias, a fin de ver lo que es el alma del Japón,
y cómo ha resistido las influencias extranjeras en el pasado, y
ha de resistirlas en el futuro. En este sentido es altamente
satisfactorio saber que recientemente se ha hecho una traduc-
ción alemana del Kojiki, añadiendo así al acervo del conoei-
miento, ya enriquecido por las rebuscas de Aston, Chamber-
lain, Florenz y otros estudiantes eruditos. Tales estudios pro-
porcionarán una exacta y plena apreciación de aquellas fuer-
zas permanentes de nuestra vida nacional, sin la cual nadie
podrá comprender al Japón en el sentido real.
("El Universal", 21 de septiembre de 1936.)
133

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.99)
INDICE
Péga.
Advertencia
8
El Problema del Pacífico
10
Los Puntos de Vista Japoneses
14
El Japón Antiguo y Moderno
21
Las Dos Faces del Japón
26
La Medicina y La Sanidad en el Japón
31
El Japón No Provoca la Guerra
35
La Posición del Japón en el Oriente
40
El Japón Moderno. La Mente Japonesa
45
La Próxima Guerra Rusojaponesa
51
Las Flores del Campo de Batalla
57
El Japón y el Tratado de Wáshington
61
La Mujer Japonesa
67
Al Margen de la Caricatura del "Vanity Fair"
72
Las Corrientes Intelectuales en el Japón
76
El Movimiento Autónomo de la China del Norte
81
La Literatura Japonesa Contemporánea
85
Dar y Tomar, el Principio que Guía al Comercio Japonés
91
La Mujer Japonesa Frente a un Aspecto Nuevo de la Vida
97
Elementos Espirituales en la Industria Japonesa
102
El Problema del Extremo Oriente
107
El Espíritu Militar Japonés
111
El Modernismo en el Japón
114
ElSoviet y el Japón
121
El Alma del Japón
129
135

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.99)
nclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 69, dated July 27, 1937,
from the American Consulate General, Mexico, D. F., Mexico,
entitled "Japanese Activities in Lower California.
Report Dated July 23. 1937, from Consul William A.
Smale regarding the Activities of Japanese in
Lower California
The following information, although being as com-
prehensive as I can make it at'the moment, is incomplete,
due to the fact that accurate data can be obtained only
over a long period of time, and through sources of in-
formation not readily tapped.
I have been most secretive and discreet in my investi-
gation, and I have had to be so probably more than would be
necessary in any other part of Mexico, for the reason that,
in my opinion, in no other part of the Republic have there
been such numbers of Japanese operating with a view to
economic penetration and motivated by a desire to render a
military service to their country.
Owing to the fact that the Northern Territory of Baja
California, especially on the seacoast, is comparatively
free from routine surveillance of local authorities in many
sections, to the fact that from a military standpoint it is
most strategically situated with respect to the United
States, to the fact that it offers a splendid base for the
smuggling of aliens into the United States, and to the fact
that its waters abound in marine products for which the
Japanese have shown a great interest, persons of this race
located here, doing business here, or passing through here
have been more obscure in their operations than in other
parts of Mexico, wi th the possible exception of their opera-
tions during the last year or two within the Consular dis-
tricts of Guaymas and Mazatlán.
It will be recalled that in my letter of June 17, 1937,
I suggested that all persons of Japanese race irrespective
of their aatual citizenship might be included in the statis-
tics. Investigation has convinced me that so far as the
activities of persons of Japanese race who have acquired
Mexican citizenship are concerned, these persons in a
majority of cases are contributing more to the country of
tneir origin than those who have not acquired Mexican citi-
zenship. It is my firm belief that the acquisition of
Mexican citizenship by a Japanese resident of Mexico does
not cause him to forfeit any right or prestige in Japan or
from his government. As a matter of fact, there is reason
to believe that owing to the fact that the Mexican consti-
tution specifically precludes acquisition of territory by
aliens within the maritime and border zones, and to my sur-
mise that the Jepanese Government wishes its nationals to
gain as firm a foothold as possible on the West Coast of
Mexico I am left with the conviction that acquisition of
Mexican citizenship by persons of Japanese race may be
definitely approved of and encouraged by the Japanese
Government. To support this belief I may cite one fact and
one incident. The fact is that the principal officers of
the Japanese Association both in Ensenada and in Tijuana
are and have been for years Mexican citizens of Japanese
race. Tne incident, the accuracy of which I have checked,
and which is no doubt indicative of similar incidents of
frequent occurrence, is the following. At a meeting of
persons of Japanese race in a chilli drying shed in the
Maneadero Valley last year, a Mexican was sufficiently in-
quisitive as to creep to the rear of the shed unobserved.
Through

=== Page 471 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
Through a crack in the shed he saw the occupants salaaming
before a Japanese whom he described as being in full dress
uniform of an Admiral or Colonel. Since the observer was
unable to distinguish between naval and military rank, it
is supposed that the most he could know is that this
Japanese (known to me) wore a uniform with obvious designa-
tion of rank. The important fact, however, is that this
individual had acquired Mexican citizenship previously.
In support of my belief that the Japanese Government
itself may be fostering, sponsoring, or even subsidizing
the acquisition of military information on the West Coast
of Mexico, I cite the following unrelated incidents.
From a Mexican citizen, a master mariner who has
served variously on Mexican government vessels and Mexican
and American coastwise and fishing vessels, who has been
an officer of the Mexican Naval Reserve, and whom I have
known since the days of my childhood spent in Ensenada, I
have received reports which would indicate that Japanese
persons have sought of him maps, charts, and data which
clearly were desired for military reasons. For example,
one Japanese, a Mexican citizen by naturalization, sought
of my acquaintance information respecting the condition of
the terrain on Guadalupe Island. My acquaintance also re-
ported the existence of a night class at Yavaros, Sonora,
allegedly conducted for the purpose of teaching Japanese
residents the Spanish language. The instructors and pupils
were Japanese. He reported that a close friend of his hed
been vhere he could observe the conduct of the class un-
noticed and was impressed b the fact that only the Jenanese
language was used in the class and that the study had been
almost exclusively of charts and maps. I, myself, have
observed Japanese pacing off distances between extreme
points of coves, or between well-defined land marks within
my consular district at times when I have come upon them
during hunting expeditions or while on outings with my
family.
The masters of sone American fishing vessels whom I
have gotten to know quite well during the almost seven
years in which I have been at Ensenada have assured me
most emphatically that they believe that various of the
officers of Japanese fishing vessels operating out of San
Diego and San Pedro are members of the Japanese Naval
Reserve, constantly alert and seeking information of
military value to their government. It is quite apparent
to me that this desire to obtain information is not restric-
ted to those who occupy an office in the Japanese military
or naval reserve. One senses it among practically all of
the Japanese within this area. The Japanese of the dis-
trict hold frequent meetins, the import of which, of
course, I do not know. Strangely enough, less than a
month ago when I called upon the Sub-Delegado in the
Maneadero Valley, ostensibly to discuss the agrarian
situation, but with a view to getting certain information
respecting Japanese land owmers which I knew he possessed,
and would be glad to give to me, the Sub-Delegado informed
me that through his contact with Japanese in the Maneadero
Valley and previously in the State of California he knew
them to be highly suspicious and constantly alert. He
stated that had I been observed by neighboring Japanese
approaching his ranch, this fact would constitute a reason
for the calling of a meeting. I learned later that a meet-
ing of the Japanese ranchers in the Maneadero Valley
followed

=== Page 472 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
followed shortly after my visit. Of course I cannot know
what business was conducted at the meeting. It may very
well be that its purpose was only to discuss the existing
perplexing agrarian situation.
In the opinion of the writer mere statistics do not
portray the threat of the Japanese on the West Coast of
Mexico. I am more impressed by their activities than by
the mere force of numbers. I can conceive that in some
localities of the interior of Mexico a comparatively high
Japanese agricultural population might little concern the
United States Government. In my consular district, however,
I find them to be as persistent as gravity. They seem to
be unrelentingly endeavoring to establish a foothold in
agriculture and in any industry connected with the sea, as
well as seeking information which would be of value to
tneir government in the event o hostilities with the
United States. It is true that at times their efforts have
been only partially successful but the pressure is always
present and at no time has a setback eliminated previous
gain. They have an apparently racial characteristic of
being willing to look to a rather distant future and to be
willing to accept with satisfaction any progress, no matter
how slight it may be.
The Japanese have used their fishing activities in
Mexico as a means of introducing their nationals into the
United States in violation of our inmigration laws. The
records of the Consulate indicate that in the calendar
year 1924 there were 380 Japanese listed on alien crew
lists visaed at this consulate, and that since that time
through June 30, 1937, 1170 new names have appeared on
crew lists visaed at this office. At the present time
there are probably no more than 140 Japanese employed on
fishing vessels obtaining crew lists presented at the
Ensenada Consulate. Thus there remain to be accounted
for 12lo Japanese who have been employed on vessels pro-
ceeding to the United States since January 1, 1924, and
who are no longer so employed. Allowing for a margin of
210 to cover possiple discrepencies in the spelling of
names and to care for those Japanese who have left their
vessels to follow another pursuit ashore, or who may have
returned to Japan, it is my belief that practically the
entire remaining 1000 former seamen have entered the United
States in violation of our immigration laws. To this num-
ber, of course, may be added an undetermined but large num-
ber of Japanese who have never been listed on alien crew
lists viased at this offioe, but who may have been smuggled
into the United States from Baja California during this
period of time.
It is not my contention that these Japanese have left
the vessels on a voyage on which their names appeared as
members of the crew. During these voyages, however, they
have had the opportunity of learning some English, of pur-
chasing American clothing, of becoming acquainted witn
California localities and conditions in order that when
they later enter the United States surreptitiously they may
more easily escape detection. I have discussed this matter
at length and often with immigration inspectors in charge
and immigration border patrol officers, and all have agreed
that it is not a difficult matter for a Japanese not listed
on a crew list to proceed as a passenger on a fishing vessel
departing from Baja California and to be transferred to a
small Japanese fresh fish boat prior to arrival of the former
vessel at a California port. The smaller vessel, it is to
be

=== Page 473 === (confidence 0.99)
-4
be remembered, is not subject to immigration or customs
examination unless under suspicion. My contentions in this
regard are outlined in a letter to the District Director of
Immigration at Los Angeles, dated April 20, 1936, which
accompanied my despatch number 1189 of Apri1 21, 1936. A
copy of this letter is enclosed herewitn for ready reference.
When I first came to Ensenada in the latter part of
1930, I immediately suspected that the Ensenada Consular
district was being used by Japanese as a base for smuggling
themselves into the United States. Consequently I took
extreme measures to restrict the signing on of new Japanese
crews on vessels proceeding from Ensenada to the United
States either through the fishing grounds or directly.
For example, during 1924 there were 380 different Japanese
listed as members of crews on fishing vessels proceeding
to the United States. In 1925 291 new names appeared. In
1926 231 new names appeared. In 1927 230 additional names
appeared. In 1931 and 1932 these figures had fallen to 39
and 38 respectively. This I attripute chiefly to the fact
that I discovered ways in whicn I could show a justification
for a refusal to visa crew lists of vessels signing on
Japanese seamen in Lower California who had not previously
been members of crews proceeding to the United States.
While it is barely possiple that my reasons thus to restrict
the former activitiy were not entirely justifiable under the
existing laws and regulations, they have not been contested
and therefore have been effective. Unfortunately, however,
once the policy of the Consulate had been definitely estab-
lished and it became known that only in rare instances could
Japanese who had only recently arrived in Baja California
from Japan join vessels proceeding to the United States,
they naturally sought a means of circumventing the restric-
tions imposed at my office and were successful in doing so
in the following manner. Masters of vessels desiring to
replace members of the crew by Japanese who had not been
employed previously proceed to Turtle Bay or Magdalena Bay
where the new Japanese seamen are shipped. They then go
to the fishing grounds and later to San Diego, California,
without touching at Ensenada. The immigration inspector
in char e at San Diego ordered these newly employed Japan-
ese to be detained on board the vessel, and deported.
Nevertheless, following a comparatively short period of
employment on these vessels, the Japanese were then in most
instances iven seamen'ε identification cards. Once in
possession of these cards, the Consulate did not consider
itself justified in refusing to certify crew lists bearing
the names of such Japanese, and from then on the vessels
were free to call at Ensenada to obtain crew list visas.
I consider it important to state that masters of vessels
involved repeatedly have admitted to me that, although
the Japanese seamen to which I refer were ordered detained
aboard their vessels and deported to Mexico, detention in
most cases was not enforced.
In confirmation of my telegram of today, the final
figures in response to your original letter of May 13, 1937,
are as follows. Japanese national& residing in the Ensenada
Consular district--550. This figure includes only persons
of Japanese race and nationality. There are approximately
loo more who through naturalization or birth in Mexico are
Mexican citizens, but who are of unmixed Japanese race.
Entrants into the Ensenada district during the last two
years are estimated to be 135 which includes 35 who have
entered

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.99)
-5
entered the district legally and 1o0 who are estimated to
have arrived illegally, chiefly from vessels which have
touched at Cedros Island or Turtle Bay.*
In arriving at the figures shown above, I have been
able to use the following lists:
1. A list of Japanese kept by the Mexican immigration
office in Ensenada. This list contained 274 names.
2.
A list furnished the local immigration inspector
by the secretary of the Japanese Association in
Ensenada. This list contained the names of 232
Japanese.
3.
The list of the Jananese holders of United States
immigration identification cars issued by the
United States imnigration and naturalization serv-
ice at San Isidro. There were 49 of these cards.
4.
A list which I compiled in the office of immigration
at San Isidro, covering Japanese who have passed in
transit through the United States between San Fran-
cisco and San Isidro under bond. There were 22
such individuals.
5.
A list of Japanese who are leasing land from
American ranchers in the Maneadero Valley. There
are 20 persons in this list.
6.
A list of 338 Japanese seamen whose names appear
on the alien crew lists visaed at this office during
the past two years. I estimated that approximately
100 of these seamen have smuggled into the United
States by the present time. It is inown that some
of those listed more than a year ago have left their
vessels, and their names do not appear on the crew
lists of other vessels.
7.
A list of 136 Japanese appearing in the 1937
Japanese-American directory published by the Japanese-
American News in Japan. This list follows sufficient-
ly closely the list prepared by the Japanese Associa-
tion in Ensenada that it may be considered to have
been compiled by the Association.
From the 971 names appearing in the list I have pre-
pared 514 cards. Ooviously there have been many duplica-
tions with the result that only 514 different names appeared
in the various lists. Certain deductions by reason of the
fact that certain persons listed are known to be Mexican
citizens, and a deduction to cover probable discrepancy in
the speliing of names, and additions to cover an estimated
number of residents in the Tijuana area have been made to
bring avout the totals telegraphed to the Consulate General.
It is my belief that my estimates for the Tijuana area have
been fairly accurate since I have had the Japanese directory,
the list of United States immiration border crossing cards,
and a knowledge that there are 85 members of the Japanese
Association in Tijuana, to aid me.
As
Figures given in this paragraph increase consular figures
for Lower California from 1,400 (see page 2, despatch No. 55)
to.1,550 or 100 less than figure from Japanese source.

=== Page 475 === (confidence 0.99)
-6
As a sidelight on the activities of Japanese interests
in the fishing industry in Baja California, and as an indi-
cation that those interests are likely to expand, I enclose
herewith copies of letters dated June 11, 1937, and June 14,
1937, respectively to and from the Marine Products Company,
San Diego, California.Copies of these two letters accom-
panied my despatch No. 1406 of June 30, 1937.
I also enclose a copy of a letter dated June 8, 1937,
written by the Marine Products Company of San Diego, Cali-
Iornia, to Mr. Wm. C. Morehead, President and Treasurer of
the Pacific Ocean Products Ltd., of Los Angeles, together
witn a copy of Mr. Morehead's reply of June 14, 1937.
Copies of these letters were furnished me by the Manager
of the Marine Products Conmany in support of his conten-
tion that the firm of Mitsui & Company intends to dominate
the abalone industry of Mexico and probably other phases
of the marine proaucts industry. The Paciric Ocean Products
Ltd. apparently is suosidized or controlled by the Japanese
firm of Mitsui & Company and is operating a newly established
abalone cannery at Turtle Bay, Baja California.
With respect to the seemingly reat facilities and
encoura ement given to Japanese fishing interests oy the
Mexican Government, the Consulate General is informed that
the consensus of opinion among persons engaged in fishing
activities in tnis vicinity is that most of the help has
come irom one person in the Mexican Government--Sr. Camiro,
nead of the Servicio Pesca Maritima in the Departmento
Forestal y de Caza y Pesca.

=== Page 476 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
Ensenada, B. C., Mexico, April 20, 1936.
Strictly Confidential.
District Director of Immigration,
Los Angeles, California.
Sir:
The Consulate refers to its strictly confiden-
tial 1etter of April 18, 1936, in which you were in-
formed of the intention of the chief of the local
immigration office to call all Japanese subjects
within his jurisdiction into his office for the
purpose of permitting him to review their documents
and pass upon their immigration status. The possi-
vility was suggested that those Japanese not proper-
ly documented in accoruance with Mexican laws might
either attenpt to hide within the district or
smuggle themselves into the United States.
Reference also is made to a letter which this
office directed to the Inspector in Charge, Immi-
gration and Naturalization Service, at San Diego,
under date of April 18, 1936, a copy of which was
furnished you. In this communication it was re-
ported that information had been received to the ef-
fect that Cedros Island, Baja California, may be a
base for the smuggling of aliens, narcotics, and al-
cohol.
As being of interest in connection with the
matters discussed in the letters referred to above,
the Consulate has to report that on the morning of
April 16, 1936, Oren H. Dickason, master of the
American oil screw SENATOR of Los Angeles, Cali-
fornia, called at this office to discuss the possi-
bility of engaging a crew of Japanese fishermen at
Ensenada on his next trip to the fishing grounds.
He stated that his desire to secure a crew of Jap-
anese at this port or, if necessary, elsewhere in
Baja California, was influenced entirely by his in-
ability to hire trained fishermen at San Pedro, and
his unwillingness to "break in" inexperienced men.
Not only was the Consulate unable to agree with
Captain Dickason's contention that a crew of able
fishermen could not be obtained from among the un-
employed Americans or legally admitted aliens at
San Pedro or San Diego, but in the light of ex-
perience gained during the past several years it
felt quite emphatically that he would experience
considerable difficulty in finding a group of
Japanese in this district who could convince this
office that they were bona fide seamen and non-
immicrants within the meaning of the immigration
laws. He was assured that this office would make a
careful and thorough examination of each alien with
a view to determining whether he could be, properly
classified as a seaman having a domicile in this
country to which he would be permitted to return.
I may add that inquiry, made prior and subsequent
to the visit of Captain Dickason discloses a con-
sensus of opinion among masters of fishing vessels
calling at this port that suitable fishermen are
available in the United States provided a reason-
able wage or share is given them, and that the un-
controlled signing on of Japanese fishermen in Baja
California

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
California would tend to throw the fishing industry
of California out of balance and operate as an un-
fair disadvantage to vessels wishing to retain crews
comprised of American citizens or lawfully admitted
aliens.
During the course of the discussion, Captain
Dickason expressed the belief, based upon a con-
versation which he alleges to have had with a
friend in the United States Immigration and Natural-
ization Service, that if he were to take aboard a
crew of Japanese fishermen at some "no consul" port
and were to proceed with them to San Pedro directly
from the fishing grounds he would experience no
difficulty in having them passed by the immigration
authorities as seamen and that subsequent entrances
into the American port would be effected with equal
ease. When informed that he might be required to
place a bond of $1,Ooo for any alien member of the
crew found not to be a bona fide seaman, Captain
Dickason admitted that he was aware of that fact.
It might be well to mention that in connection
with the examination at this office of Japanese
residents of the Ensenada consular district to de-
termine their admissibility into the United States
either as non-immigrants or as seamen, the fact
that the alien is able to show that he legally
entered Mexico is not taken as proof that he has
in this country a legal domicile because it has
been found that many applicants of that race have
not complied with the laws of Mexico relating to
the registration of aliens. It is the Consulate's
understanding that an alien who has failed to
register in accordance with existing law could be
refused readmission into Mexico.
Despite the Consulate's attempt to discourage
the master of the oil screw SENAToR from endeavoring
to secure an alien crew at this or another port of
Baja California, the vessel arrived at Ensenada from
San Diego on the morning of April 19, 1936, with a
crew composed of the following American citizens;
Oren Dickason, Master.
James Hodges, Engineer.
Fred Gratto, Assistant Engineer.
Harmon Farr, Radio Operator.
At the time of the last visit to this port of
the O/S SENATOR, on January 5, 1936, it carried a
crew of eleven men, including the master.
According to the master's signed application
for a consular bill of health, the vessel was to
leave this port on the afternoon of April 19th bound
for Los Angeles via the fishing Crounds. It has been
subsequently learned that it is the master's in-
tention to take on a crew of Japanese somewhere in
the vicinity of Cedros Island or at Turtle Bay, Baja
California. It is assumed that the skeleton crew
will be augmented by the shipment of at least seven
aliens.
In

=== Page 478 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
In view of the information which this office
has received respecting the intention of the local immi-
gration authorities to examine carefully the status
of every Japanese resident of this district, and the
belief of our own officials that Cedros Island is a
base for the smuggling of aliens, etc., the Consulate
is forced to look with suspicion upon the contem-
plated action of the master of the O/S SENATOR.
Needless to say, any success which the Oon-
sulate may have had during the past five years and
any success which it may achieve in the future
in controlling the shipment of alien seamen at
this port will be rendered valueless if masters of
vessels are permitted to engage aliens at ports
outside of the jurisdiction of a consulate with
any reasonable expectation of impunity. If such
a practice were to be established not only would
Americans and legally admitted aliens soon be dis-
placed by the cheap labor thus obtained, but it is
also reasonable to assume that alien Japanese in
the vicinity of Cedros Island, Turtle Bay, Magda-
lena Bay, etc., who are desirous of entering the
United States clandestinely, would welcome the
opportunity of joining an American fishing vessel
and later, when the time seemed propitious, en-
deavor to leave the vessel at an American port.
Moreover, those who are able to join fishing ves-
sels at one of the points named, put who have no
definite or immediate desire of illegally entering
the United States, will, if permitted the priv-
ilege of going ashore while in an American port,
be in a position to acquaint thenselves with the
ceography and other details of that section of
the country pertaining to the port of call and thus
secure information whic: at some later date may be
employed to convince American immigration authori-
ties that they entered the United States on some
"forgotten" vessel prior to 1924, which, if the
Consulate's understanding is correct, would mean
that our autnorities might find it difficult to
secure the aliens' deportation.
Judging from the tenor of casual inquiries
made by masters of other American fishin vessels
respecting the possiple employment of local Japan-
ese fishermen, the Consulate is firmly of the
opinion that should the vessel under discussion
succeed in securing a fisning crew at Cedros Island
or Turtle Bay, as the case may be, and subsequently
experience no great diriiculty upon entering an
American port, it will not be long before other
American vessels follow its example. It is be-
lieved that vigorous action by the immigration
authorities in the present case would effectively
curb and discourage the shipment of alien seamen
at "no consul" ports on the cast of Baja California,
with the result that the Consulate will be in a
position to continue its close surveillance of the
activities of Japanese seamen engaged on fishing
vessels operating in these Mexican waters.
Very truly yours,
WM. A. SMALE,
American Consul.

=== Page 479 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
H. M. NEWHALL & CO.
NEWHALL BLDG.
SAN FRANCISCO
June 11, 1937.
Marine Products Co.
Office No. 1 Pier No. 1
San Diego, Calif.
Dear Sirs:
Attention of Mr. L. K. Small
The writer would like to have Mr. Small's reactions
to the following report which has just been sent us from cer-
tain sources:
"Mexican Capitalists interested in organizing a
joint Japanese-Mexican fishery, in Mexico, will
arrive in Japan at an early date to conduct negotia-
tions with the Japan Marine Products Company.
Under tentative plans approved, Japanese trawlers,
and men will be sent to the Gulf of California
and to the Pacific fishing grounds of Iower Cali-
fornia. Two Japanese trawlers are operating there
experimentally at the present time."
Do you think that this may in time influence our
business in Canned Apalone and do you think it possible
for the combination mentioned to make sufficient head-
way to really become a factor in the fishing, canning and
distribution of this cormodity, particularly for Oriental
territory?
Yours very truly,
H. M. NEWHALL & CO.
By (signed) H. J. Steele
Vice-President
HJS:M

=== Page 480 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
MARINE PRODUCTS COMPANY
June 14, 1937
Cia. de Productos Marinos, S. A.
Ensenada, B. C., Mexico
Dear Sirs:
Attn: Sr. Miguel Candara, Gen. Mgr.
Shin Shibata was in this office Saturday and stated that
he came in to see if some arrangement could be made where-
by a price agreement could be effected petween this company
and Mitsui & Co.
The writer explained to him that Mitsui's position is so
entirely difrerent that there is no chance to arrive at
any price agreement, inasmuch as Mr. Morehead has already
sold to Mitsui at approximately 35 per case less than any
of the American exporters can buy it. Shibata finally
admitted that Mitsui did have an advantage of price in
the Orient.
The fishing problem generally was discussed and during the
course of the conversation, he stated that Dr. Mitsui, one
of the Japanese experts who has just arrived in Mexico, is
making a trip up the West Coast, investigating the abalone
and fishing industry cenerally, for the Mexican government,
and will make recomnendations, as he understands it, to
the Fish & Game Department in Mexico for laws regulating
the industry.
He further stated that the Mexican government is now build-
ing in Japan two 1arge fishing trawlers to cost $500,000.00
(iN) each and that 15 or 20 young Mexican boys are leaving
for Japan to be instructed in the fishing industry and to
come home with the S boats which the government is building.
You probably have talked to Mr. Shipata the last few days,
and if so, you will notice his independent attitude, and as
a matter of fact, he stated very frankly that he does
not feel the Japanese have anythin to fear in Lower
California. This information is passed on to you for what
it may be worth.
Without anything more for the moment and with best wishes
from the writer, we are
Very truly yours,
LARINE PRODUCTS COLPANY
By
L. K. SHALL.
LKS: HD

=== Page 481 === (confidence 0.99)
UOPY
June 8, 1937.
Mr. Wm. C. Morehead, Pres. & Treas.
Pacific Ocean Products, Ltd.
411 S. Main Street
Los Angeles, Calif.
Dear Sir:
Referring to our recent conversation in your office con-
cerning canned abalone.
It was my understanding that under no circumstances were
you in favor of cutting prices and that you would in no
event sell to any exporter at below our opening price of
$7.40 net cash, in lots of 1000 cases or over.
On Thursday last, Mr. Shin Shibata was in this office
and during the conversation, informed me that you, or your
company, had executed, as exclusive Sales Representatives
of Coronado Fisheries, now packing at Bahia Tortuga, B.C.,
Mexico, a contract with the Japanese exporting firm of
Mitsui & Co., San Francisco, under the terms of which they
are to receive a large part, if not all, of the 1937 pack
of abalone from the Turtle Bay cannery, at a price which
figures $6.75 net per case, unlabeled, ex warehouse Los
Angeles, Harbor.
After allowing a normal cost for labeling, handling,
strapping, etc., it is obvious that Mitsui & Co. have been
given a net price which figures 35 cents or 40 cents per
case less than any American exporter in San Francisco has
purchased a case of abalone during the past two years, and
despite the fact that Mitsui & Co. have never handled any
Mexican abalone before, this places them in a most enviable
position insofar as price is concerned in the Orient.
If I have been misinrormed concerning this matter, will
you kindly be good enough to set me right in order that I
may advise the two Mexican pacing plants vith whom we
have contracts and likewise so that the American exporters
in San Fr ncisco may know what to expect in the way of com-
petition from their Japanese conpetitor on canned abalone
in the Orient.
Your kind response will be sincerely appreciated.
Yours very truly,
MARINE PRODUCTS COMPANY
By
L. K. Small.
LKS:HD

=== Page 482 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
CORONADO FISHERIES, INO.
410 S. Main St.
LOS ANGELES
June 14, 1937
Mr. L. K. Small
Marine Products Co.
San Diego, Calif.
Dear Sir:
Your letter of June 8 has been held for my attention.
In my discussions and negotiations with Mitsui & Co.,
Ltd., the importance of the price structure in the abalone
market was fully recognized, and I am confident that our
sales representatives will strictly adhere to the policy
of maintaining a firm price level. The realization of
profits is the purpose of all business activity and
nothing is more harmful to accomplishing this objective
than a price war.
I do not mind telling you that our deal was made at
$7.50 per case, less the usual five percent commission,
and the normal allowance for the assumption by the pur-
chaser for cash payment, warehousing charges, insurance,
labeling, and strapping.
I see no reason why our sales representatives should
sacrifice the normal and legitimate profit to which they
are entitled by upsetting conditions in the market in the
Orient.
I sincerely trust that our entrance into the abalone
market will permit of cordial and profitable relations with
everyone interested in the business.
Very truly yours,
(Signed) Win. C. Morehead
President
WOM:L

=== Page 483 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISION OF
AT F. WAGNER, N. YI, CHAIRMAN
AUG 14 1937
JOHN G. TOWNGEND, JR., DEL.
FE
MKLEY, KY.
PREDERICK STEIWER, ORES.
BULKLEY, OHIO
LYNN J. FRAZIER, N. DAK.
THE AMEHICAN KEPUBLICS
F. BYRNES, S. C.
R. REYNOLDS, N. C.
HENRY CABOT LODGE, JR., MASS.
E
Cnited States SenaHPaRTMENT OF STATE
N H. BANKHEAD, ALA.
RECEU
LLIAM GIBBS MC ADOO, CALIF.
ALVA B. ADAMS, COLO.
PRANCIS T. MALONEY, CONN.
GEORGE L. RADCLIFFE, MD.
PRENTISS M. BROWN, MICH.
HERBERT E. HITCHCOCK, 8. DAK.
1937 ALG 14 AM 9 09
LEON H. KEYSERLING, CLERK
August 13, 1937.
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
Ans'd
august 19 1937
AND RECORDS
8/6/37
Hon. Cordell Hull,
894.20212
Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
894.20212/389
Dear Mr. Secretary:
I enclose herewith a letter which I have
received from Mr. Joseph M. Perry, 1039 Worthington
St., Springfield, Mass., to which he has attached a
newspaper clipping containing allusion to the efforts
of Japan to obtain a concession from Mexico to es-
tablish a port at Ensenada. Mr. Perry asks whether
the State Department is watching the progre. of these
negotiations.
If you have any information upon
the subject which I can send to Mr. Perry, I shalMibe
glad to have it.
Very truly yours,
ildodgnir
H. C. Lodre, Jr.
B
I
F/G

=== Page 484 === (confidence 0.82)
JOBEPH M. PERRY
1089 WORTHINGTON STREET
SPRINGFIELD, MABSACHUSETT
ug G to 1937
ton I teb dye
Washing lon
8
would beining t inow wh
the Stato tlefartment at Maching ton are
watingge
wMaric in inCn
cessione of Insenada.
Iven if only for a termenal for a
Steamshrif line bs I tonolulw in would be
in crinfetition with om American Linto
8
Yome very truly
Jordw Wh Pery
20
2
2
a)

=== Page 485 === (confidence 0.99)
SUSPICIONS AROUSED
Corresposident Views With Alarm
Aliem Activities in Our Country
To the Editor of The Union
Sir: We want, in this country, no
military training camps under the
auspices of foreign governments or
alien individuals.
At the present time such camps, it
is belleved, have been established in
various parts of the country and I
consider them a menace to our Gov-
ernment. What does it mean when
the German Bund has a number of
such camps in operation now? It
would be interesting. to know whether
Herman von Busch, Bund state sec-
retary of New Jersey, is an American
citizen or not.
Why are Germans and Italians
compelled to register their names with
the consulates of these countries?
There is a growing suspicion that
in case of war with these countries
these trained bunds would be used to
form a hostile army in our midst.
Also how about the many Japanese
in California? In case of a war with
that nation they would be a great
hazard, hard to overcome before this
Nation could raise an army of equal
or superior numbers and transport
it to California.
The Japanese have always coveted
California and some years ago tried
to secure from Mexico a base for a
naval station at Magdalena Bay on
the peninsula of Old California, but
fortunately for us Mexico refused to
allow this.
At the present time the Japanese
are seeking a concession from Mex-
ico to establish a port at Ensenada
for the alleged purpose of operating
a steamship service to Honolulu. En-
senada is only about 60 miles south
of San Diego and would be a fine
place for the Japanese to establish
an airport from which they could at-
tack the American cities on the Cali-
fornia coast.
Why do I think of these possibili-
ties? It is because Japan, Germany
and Italy are warlike nations and
the United States has the world's
supply of gold and if Japan and Ger-
many became allies and one attacked
us on the west coast and the other
on the east, the United States would
be between two millstones, seeking to
crush us for the sake of our gold
and for the possession of California
as a fertile possession for Japan's
increasing population.
AN AMERICAN.
Springfield, Aug. 4, 1937.

=== Page 486 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Febre ry 16, 1933.
EHD:
MVIY:
San Luis Potosi, Mexico's, des-
patch of February 5, 1933, reports
the receipt of two anonymous letters
using  language insulting to the
United States and a letter signed
with a psuedonym claiming that the
writer had overheard a Japanese
military officer state that Japan
intends to attack the Philippines
between June and September, 1933.
The despatch is not of special
interest to FE.
:c

=== Page 487 === (confidence 0.93)
August 19 1937
R
My dear Senator Ledge:
894.20212/389
I have received your letter of Angust 13, 1937,
with whioh yeu enelesed a communieatiom frem Mr. Jessph M.
Perry, l089 Worthington Street, Springfield, Massaohusetts,
and a mewspaper olipping in which it is stated that
the Japamese are seeking a concession from Mexice to
establish a port at Emsenada. You inquire whether I
have reeeived any information on the subjest.
This Department has received no repert from any
of its representatives in Mexice tending to confirm the
correotness of the information comveyed in the newspaper
olipping forwarded with your letter.
Sinoerely yours,
Cordell Hull
The Honorable
日
Henry Gabot Lodge, Jr.,
Routin
United States Senate.
≤14
RA ROT:VIL 8/16

=== Page 488 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20212/390
SEE
812.6363/3020
FOR
Memo
State Department
Under Seoretary
Welles
Oct. 1, 1937
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Peouliar aotivities of Japanese in Mexico -
Conversation with Mexican Ambassador concerning -.
Ambassador said President Cardenas had issued orders
for far more rigid supervision of Japanese activities.
jps
F/MR
390

=== Page 489 === (confidence 0.85)
DIVISION OF THE AMERICAN REPUBLICS
E Coff J W B
Rather ther wite Kenator Hagdan
 litte onthe sulyict I think I shoil l,
adonie him, bey shone, That ie heat
available inpormation us i7 July last.
year indients that there were
atoct 5, 300 Japanear on Inen is0
I feal certari that
at that trine.
a phome stalement  tre nature
indicated would he entrily catiofactorng
we might he made I mny lietth we
do yo agree?
might send out.
5

=== Page 490 === (confidence 0.94)
VA., CHAIRMAN
FREDERICK HALE, MAINE
GERALD P. NYE, N. DAK.
FREDERICK STEIWER, ORES.
OKLA.
JOHN G. TOWNBEND, JR., DEL.
Cnited States Senate
NES, S. C.
H. STYLES BRIDGES, N. H.
.TYDINGS, MD.
RECEIVEL
FE. ADAMS, COLO.
BB. RUSSELL, JR., GA.
Roy
JOHN H. BANIGHEAD, ALA.
JAN
1938 JAN 6 AM 9 Qanuary 5, 193
HARRY S. TRUMAN, MO.
F. RYAN DUFFY, WIS.
CHE AMERICAN HEHULICS
BOWARD R. BURKE, NEBR.
HERBERT E. HITCHOOCK, S. DAK.
DEPARTMENT TATE
THEODORE F. GREEN, R. 1.
KENNEDY F. REA, CLERK
JOHN W. R. SMITH, ASST. CLERK
COMMLNUATIONS
AND RECORDS
894.20212
B
The Honorable
The Secretary of State
512.5011
Washington, D. C.
894.20212/391
My dear Sir:
I am just in receipt of a letter from
Mr. C. F. Thomallo, Secretary of the Graham County
Chamber of Commerce, Safford, Arizona, which reads
in part as follows:
"If possible also, the number of Japanese
in the country of Mexico, would be greatly
to my satisfaction."
I shall appreciate your furnishing me with
whatever information you may be able to secure through
diplomatic channels covering Mr. Thomallo's inquiry.
Tinte:
Yours very sincerely,
I informad te Renaters
F/ MR
that te west averlakee
iformation as y 20l, 1937,
5, sou Jagraness
U. S. S.
at that time.
beaster
calbun

=== Page 491 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFTDENTLAT
DIVISION OF
271937
AMERICREPUBLI08
MEXICO-PoLitPeal
DEFARIMLNT OESTATE
3850-
794.20212
A Mexican rancher from the vicinity of Altar reported to
Chief of Folice Oliver White that a Japanese whose name is unknowa hes
been making photographs in that area; he was seen photographing the
old emergeney landing field of the Pan American lines near Altar. At
the time of the report he had been close to the border near Sasabe.
This man was around 5 feet 6 or 8 inches in height; light complexion;
spoke perfect Spanish; had a birthmark on his right or left cheek, which
cheek uneertain, about the size of  half dollar; bad scar on right
forefinger and finger stiff; slight limp in left leg. The rancher
understood that his passport indicated he had entered Mexico at
894.20212/39
Manzanillo, Jal. (G-2 Note: irobably Colima.)
Source: Headquarters Fort Huachuca, Arisona, Decomber 23, 1937.
to A. C. of S., G-2, Headquarters Eighth Corps Area.
Fort Sam Houston, Texes; G-2/2657-G-657/245.
592
CONFIDENTLAL

=== Page 492 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
 OF THE-AMERICAN REPUBLICS
NSIAK XOX XAX OSXANEX ICX N XAF KAM KSX
MEMORANDUM
FEBRUARY 26, 1933.
Mr. Dugean:
In the attached despatch no. 200 of
February 15, the American Consul at Chi-
huahua reports that Louis Collins, a
prospector, believed to be an American
citizen, called at the Consulate on
February 15 and stated that during the months
of November and December last he saw three
groups of Japanese moving about apparently
exploring the country along the Sonora-
Chihuahua border. The Japanese in ques-
tion carried camp equipment, theodolites,
batteries and other supplies. Collins ex-
pressed tne opinion that the Japanese
were manping roads, watering places, etc.
Collins further informed the Consul that
ne had seen on February 13 a party of
four Germans of military bearing preparing
to leave Chihuahua City for western
Chihuahua and Sonora with apparently the
same object in view as they questioned
Collins minutely regarding the location
of roads and towns in that region.
R. C. Tanis

=== Page 493 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISION OF
UPEBA1938
00
THE AMEDICAN.HEPUBLICO
AMERICAN CONBULATBRE
Chihuahua, Mexico, February 15, 1938.
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL - AIR MAIL
0212
3
Japanese Army Exploring Parties
SUBJECT:
in Northern Mexico.
1-1055
THE HONORABLE
For
ntion
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
894.20212
WASHINGTON.
hi
SIR:
I have the honor
Intelligence Department of the Army (N. T. D.) that
0.
a certain Louis Collins, mine prospector, aged 4C,
6
obviously an American citizen, who claims to have
worked directly under Colonel George T. Longhorne,
Commander of the 8th United states Cavalry at Colum-
bus, New Mexico in intelligence work along the Mexican
border in 1915-1916, called at this Consulate today to
make substantially the following report:
That durin, the month of November 1937, he saw
three groups of Japanese citizens, consisting of 12,
16, and 4 individuals, again on December 22, 1937, two
more groups of 4 and 8 men, and on December z5, 1937,
F/A
another group of four Japanese, moving westward from
Chihuahua, Mexico, apparently exploring the country
along the border of the Mexican States of Sonora and
Chihuahua

=== Page 494 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
Chihuahua some 250-300 miles south of the American
border.
These groups made up of individuals of military
bearing according to Mr. Collins appeared to be well
supplied with camp equipment, theodolites, storage
batteries and small, probably two horse power, motors,
for generating current in these batteries, which he
thought were being used to operate shortwave wireless
sets. The groups were avoiding the larger towns as
much as possible and seemed to be moving westward to
join other groups of the same character on or near
the Pacific Coast. Mr. Collins stated also that he
had reported already on several occasions to our In-
telligence Department the movements of the Pacific
Coast groups, which movements are now well known to
the United States Government.
Mr. Collins' supposition in regard to the action
of the Japanese parties operating in western Chihuahua,
as based upon his contacts with similar parties along
the Mexican Pacific coast line, is that they are
mapping this portion of Mexico to locate roads, water-
ing places, and possible airfield bases, information
for use in case of war between Japan and the United
States.
Mr. Collins states also that he made a report of
the incidents above related to the Clerk of the In-
telligence Department at Fort Bliss, Texas, on
February 10, 1938.
Mr. Collins

=== Page 495 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
Mr. Collins also reported to the undersigned that
he had seen on February 13, 1938, a party of four
Germans of distinctly military bearing preparing to
leave Chihuahua City for western Chihuahua and Sonora
withapparently the same object in view as they question-
ed him minutely regarding the location of roads, and
towns in that region.
The writer never saw Mr. Collins previously but
had heard that there was an American prospector of
this name working for some time in western Chihuahua
and Sonora. He appears to wish to be taken for a
Mexican citizen in this country, speaks Spanish like a
native, and has somewhat the color but not the physiog-
nomy of a Mexican.
Mr. Collins has promised to keep in contact with
this office and to report similar experiences in the
future and wishes to be addressed only through this
Consulate. He is leaving on another prospecting trip
to the west next week but has promised to call again at
the Consulate upon his return.
Respectfully yours,
Lee VR. Blohm
American Consul
820.02
LRB/hah
In triplicate to the Department.
Copy to the Military Attaché at Mexico, D. F.
Copy to the Consulate General.

=== Page 496 === (confidence 0.96)
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Chihuahua, Mexico, February 15, 1938.
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL - AIR MAIL
C
DEPARIMENI OF STAIL
Japanese Army Exploring Parties
SUBJECT:
in Northern Mexico.
1-1055
m  9
st
THE HONORABLE
894.20212/
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
I have the honor to report for the use of the
Intelligence Department of the Army (M. I. D.) that
3
a certain Louis Collins, mine prospector, aged 40,
6
3
obviously an American citizen, who claims to have
worked directly under Colonel George T. Longhorne,
Commander of the 8th United Stat s Cavalry at Colum-
bus, New Mexico in intelligence work along the Mexican
border in 1915-1916, called at this Consulate today to
8-193
make substantially the following report:
FILED
That during the month of November 1937, he saw
three groups of Japanese citizens, consisting of 12,
16, and 4 individuals, again on December 22, 1937, two
more groups of 4 and 8 men, and on December 25, 1937,
1
another group of four Japanese, moving westward from
Chihuahua, Mexico, apparently exploring the country
along the border of the Mexican States of Sonora and
F/M
Chihuahua

=== Page 497 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
Chihuahua some 250-300 miles south of the American
border.
These groups made up of individuals of military
bearing according to Mr. Collins appeared to be well
supplied with camp equipment, theodolites, storage
batteries and small, probably two horse power, motors,
for generating current in these batteries, whioh he
thought were being used to operate shortwave wireless
sets. The groups were avoiding the larger towns as
much as possible and seemed to be moving westward to
join other groups of the same character on or near
the Pacific Coast. Mr. Collins stated also that he
had reported already on several occasions to our In-
telligence Department the movements of the Pacific
Coast groups, which movements are now well known to
the United States Government.
Mr. Collins' supposition in regard to the action
of the Japanese parties operatin; in western Chihuahua,
as based upon his contacts with similar parties along
the Mexican Pacific coast line, is that they are
mapping this portion of Mexico to locate roads, water-
ing places, and possible airfield bases, information
for use in case of war between Japan and the United
States.
Mr. Collins states also that he made a report of
the incidents above related to the Clerk of the In-
telligence Department at Fort Bliss, Texas, on
February 10, 1938.
Mr. Collins

=== Page 498 === (confidence 0.96)
-3-
Mr. Collins also reported to the undersigned that
he had seen on February 13, 1938, a party of four
Germans of distinotly military bearing preparing to
leave Chihuahua City for western Chihuahua and Sonora
with apperently the same object in view as they question-
ed him minutely regarding the location of roads, and
towns in that region.
The writer never saw Mr. Collins previously but
had heard that there was an American prospector of
this name working for some time in western Chihuahua
and Sonora. He appears to wish to be taken for a
Mexican citizen in this country, speaks Spanish like a
native, and has somewhat the color but not the physiog-
nomy of a Mexican.
Mr. Collins has promised to keep in contact with
this office and to report similar experiences in the
future and wishes to be addressed only through this
Consulate. He is leaving on another prospecting trip
to the west next week but has promised to call again at
the Consulate upon his return.
Respectfully yours,
Lee R. Blohm
Ausf
American Consul
820.02
LRB/hah
In triplicate to the Department.
Copy to the Military Attaché at Mexico, D. F.
Copy to the Consulate General.
Original sent by Air Mail.
子r
A-R
9eh26

=== Page 499 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE 812.6351/7
FOR._...Despatch..#219
FRoM Monterrey
(....Elocker......) DATED.)Feb.21,1938
894.20212/
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Japanese naval base at Mazatlan:
Alleged Japanese negotiations with Mexico for concession for
exploitation of iron deposits on Pacific coast in exchange
394
for which Japanese will repair and modernize harhor of Mazatlan:
Newspaper articles in translation enclosed.
ω
6

=== Page 500 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20212
SEE
812.6363/3130
FOR .
#6291
10
FROM
Mexico
Daniels
) DATED Mar. 16, 1938
TO
NAME
1-1187
/395
REGARDING: Petroleum activities of Dr. V. Tsuru, Jananese, around
Tampico -
Transmits copy of comunication from Consul at Tampico
regarding -.
jps

=== Page 501 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISION
APR
26
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Ensenada, B. C., Mexico, April 8, 1938.
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT:
Japanese Activities in Baja California.
52
DM 4
SNCI
SRDC
THE HONORABLE
RLASTE AL
1938 
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
WASHINGTON.
894.20212/3
SIR:
I have the honor to bring to the recollection
of the Department the fact that on previous occasions
the Consulate has reported suspicious activities of
Japanese who may have been engaged in the procurement
39
of information likely to be of militery interest to
the ir Go vernment.
The Department now is informed that other members
of the staff and I within the last few weeks have
noticed a number of Japanese, well-dressed, distinct-
ly not of the laboring cless, and not residents of
this district, roving about from place to place in
Ensenada and its vicinity, taking photographs and
making observations with the use of high-powered
field glasses. While my family and I were on a picnic
on a hill which overlooks Ensenada and Todos Santos
Bay, recently, two Japanese, one carrying a camera and
one a pair of field glasses, visited the locality of
F/FG
our camping place. They stated that they were residents
of

=== Page 502 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
of Ensenada, which they were not; attempted to
speak Spanish, which they could not; took photographs
of the surrounding country from various angles and
made observations and no tes. I borrowed the field
glasses which one of the Japanese carried and found
them to be very high powered, with a Zeiss lens in
a frame manufactured in Japan.
I recognize that this and other incidents of a
similar nature do not prove conslusively that Japanese
are engaged in espionage or in the gathering of mili-
tary information in this vicinity. On the other hand,
I consider that under the circumstances it would be
unwise to disregard entirely the possibility that
this type of activity is being and had been under-
taken.
Respectfully yours,
Wm. A. Smale,
American Consul.
820.02
WAS/md
In duplicate to the Department.
Copy to the Consulate General.
Copy to the Embassy.

=== Page 503 === (confidence 0.89)
26
H. RUSSELL BRAND, INC.
hand development
neering institution de
Aed to the advancement
1860 BR0ADWAY
and modernization of
the science of the feading
NEW YORK
FOOD-O-MATIC RESTAURANTS
FOOD-O-MATIC EOUIPMENT
of the people
lickid
CVISION
1278-1279-1280
CIRCLE 7
FR 251938
eh
DATA
FAK LASILAN ATIAIND
RESPEOTFULLY REFERRED
PR1193
FOR AOKNOWLEDGMINT
AND CONSIDERATION
MsH M Dutyne
Beoretary to the President
894.20212/397
MRsarell Brmy
FILED
1
A

=== Page 504 === (confidence 0.97)
H. RUSSELL BRAND, INC.
Ad development
ring institutionde
d to the advancement
1860 BROADWAY
and modernization of
the science of the feading
NEW YORK
FOOD-O-MATIC EOUIPMENT
FOOD-O-MATIC RESTAURANTS
of the people
CIRCLE 7
1278-1279-1280
aroh 30, 1938.
Senator Hiram Johnson
Washington, D. C.
Dear Senator:
As a native of the State of California, where
you have so heroically served the merican people by
your anti-Japanese activities, I am writing to express
my opinion of the great necessity for starting a campaign
immediately to combat the evil influenees of the Japanese
in Mexieo.
These people, as you know, have done everything
in their power to avoid the restriotions whioh are called
for in the Monroe Dootrine, and of all the issues before
the Ameriean people today I think that none is more im-
portant than this one of the Japanese. As a true Amerioan
oitizen, I felt it a duty to write you regarding this.
Respeotfully yours,
HRB : NS
H. ROSSELL BRAND

=== Page 505 === (confidence 0.95)
Apr1l 26 1938.
In reply refer to
FE - 894.20812/397.
My dear Mr. Brand:
The receipt is acknowledged, by reference from
the White House, of your letter of Maroh 30, 1938,
addressed to the President, enolosing a copy of a
894.20212/397
letter whioh you have written to Senator Hiram W.
Johnson with regard to the influence of the Japanese
in Mexico.
The contents of your letter to Semator Johnsom
have been given careful consideration and your courtesy
in forwarding a copy of the letter is appreciated.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
9.2m./√.
Maxwell M. Hamilton
Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
Mr. H. Russell Brand,
71860 Broadway,
CR
APR 26 1938.
New York City.
F/FG
Jui
8
Eg.c.
FE: HC
y.m.1H.
IV-25-38

=== Page 506 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF THE AMERICAN REPUBLICS
DAASEL DL ZZZBZGGI CZL Z2 LAEZ
MEMORANDUM
Apr11 1, 1938
Mr. Duggan:
I toby
up this matter with Mr.
Sturgeon. We agreed that Mr. Banner-
man should look into the alleged
activities of the editor.
Mr. Bannerman will have a report
on the editor in due course. Mean-
while I think we might send an appre-
ciative acknowledgment to Mr. Malone.
Graft attuched.
R. C. Tanis

=== Page 507 === (confidence 0.98)
DIVISION OF
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MAR 30 1938
THE UNDER SECRETARMEHICAN HEPUBLIUS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
March 30, 1938.
RA
Mr. Duggan:
You may desire to take this
letter up with Mr. Bannerman and
the Far Eastern Division.
s. w.
U:SADMK

=== Page 508 === (confidence 0.95)
mi
POST OPFICE INSPACTON IN CH
Post Office Department
92390-XC
CWP:K
POST OFFICE INSPECTOR IN CHARGE
4/13/38
San Franeisco, Calif.
RCB
April 9, 1938.
Division of
FAR EASTEAN AFFAIRS
APRAS1938
Departmen) of State
CHIEF
APR 13 1938
Mr. R. C. Bannerman,
Chief Special Agent,
RCS
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Bannerman:
Reference is made to your letter of April 4,
1938, requesting certain information regerding the
Japanese newspaper "New World", published in San
Francisco.
This matter was referred to Inspector G. H.
Austin, and your attention is invited to the attached
memorendum of an investigetion made by him in this
city on April 7th and 8th, covering the points men-
tioned in your letter.
The exhibits mentioned by
Inspector Austin in his memorandum are also attached
hereto.
If we may be of any further assistance to you
in this matter, please advise.
Sincerely yours,
BP
894.202121
C. W: Pfeffenberger
Inspector in Charge.
3

=== Page 509 === (confidence 0.98)
92390-XC
April 8, 1938.
Memorandum
A Jepanese newspeper under the name of "The New World, Inc."
ms originally establiahed in San Francisco in 1894, and the record
in the San Francisco post office shows its date of original entry
as second alass matter as of June 18, 1894. Its editor was indi-
cated as T. Abe, managing editor, R. Ninomiya, and business manager,
I. Sugmi, the owmers and only stookholders being New World, Inc.,
T. Abe and S. Yamagata.
On Movember 26, 1932, the name of the paper was changed to
"The New World Daily News", (ciroulation as of October 1932 -
13,z40). Its division of classification number in the office of
the Third Assistant Postmaster General at Washington was 196933,
changed to 33791 in 1923.
There existed at this time (1932) another Japanese newspaper
kmown as "The Hokubei Ambgi", (ciroulation as of October 1932 -
3,636) its publiaher and editor being K. Ebina and business manager,
S. Hare.
There is also another Japanese newspaper known as "The Japanese
American News Publishing Company" whose circulation in October l937
is indicated as 9,425. The editor is I. Kawashima, managing editor,
S. Aseno, business manager, I. Tauda; owmers, Japanese American
Hews Publishing Company and Ton& Abiko, all at 650 Ellis Street,
San Francisco; mortgage held by Zellerbach Paper Company, 534 Battery
Street, San Francisco.
On June 17, 1935, "The New World Daily News" and "The Hokubei
Ashai" ware consolidated and the name changed to "The New World-Sun",
Mr. S. Hara, general manager, having made the request. The first
issue of the newly named paper was dated June 20, 1925, the office
of publication being the same as that of "The New World Daily News",
1618 Geary Street, San Francisco.
The statement of owmerahip and management of "The New World-Sun"
submitted to the postmaster at San Francisco in October l937 shows
the following:
Circulation 950l; editor, T. Abe, managing editor, T. Ota,
business manager, K. Ichimaru, primipal stockholders, T.
Abe, K. Ebina, S. Hara, K. Hatakeyama and K. Okagari -
(address of all indicated as 16l8 Geary Street, San Fran-
cisco, California).

=== Page 510 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
Mr. William Prendergast, bookkeeper in charge of the second
elass mailings section of the San Francisco post office, informed
me that K. Ichimaru is more or less of a recent addition to the
paper; that he is apparently a most capable man of 35 to 40 years
of age, makes e very good appearance,and is of the athletic type,
and he is quite certain that Ichimaru is the editor-in-chief of
"The New World-Sum".
I took the matter up with Inspector Walsh of the Bureau of
Immigration and Naturalization at San Francisco and he checked with
his main office located on Angel Ialand in San Francisco Bay, ascer-
taining that the records there disclosed that Mr. Kakuzo Ichimaru
first entered the United States on the S. S. Siberia on May 12,
191s, at which time he was 12 years and 11 months of age and destined
to join his father at 655t Main Street, Seattle, Washington.
His file disclosed that Kakuzo Ichimaru again arrived in the
United States at Seattle, Washington, on March 13, 1924 (no record
of steemer, etc., at San Francisco).
The record further disclosed that on June 28, 1924, he again
arrived at San Francisco on the S. S. Korea Maru from Yokohame;
his age indicated as 25; male; married; newspaper reporter and
destined to Mr. Eigo Higashi, zoo0-A California Street, San Fran-
cisco; 5'6" in height, with a scar on his left hand; born at
Kumemoto Ken, Japan. He was accompanied by his wife Asae Ichimaru,
and his wife has applied for a reentry permit at San Francisco
under date of March 22, 1938, evidently intending to visit Japan.
The foregoing covers all of the information obtained con-
cerning Kakuso Ichimaru, who, according to Mr. Williem Prendergast
of the post office, is believed to be the editor-in-chief of "The
New World-Sum". It will be noted that as a boy of about 13 years
of age he arrived in this country and joined his father at 655t
Main Street, Seattle, Washington, and the record indicates that
he arrived at Seattle again on March 13, 1925. Any information
concerning how long he remained in Seattle between May of 1912
and March of l924 would be available at the U. S. Immigration
Office at Seattle. It is possible he returned to Japan to attend
school. As shown in the record, he again arrived in the hited
States on June 28, 1924, having made a fast trip to Japan between
Maroh and June of that year. There was nothing learned or dis-

=== Page 511 === (confidence 0.99)
3
alosed to indicate that he was connected with the Japanese Navy
Department, although he may be so oonnected.
Inammuch as Mr. S. Hara is shown as general manager of"The
New World-Sun" in his letter of June 17, 1935, copy herewith, I
deemed it advisable to obtain information concerning his status,
and Inspector Walsh of the U. S. Immigration Service furniahed
me with the following information:
Shintaro Hara arrived on Siberia Maru on May 28, 1926; 43
years old; married; accompanied by wife; business manager of
Japanese and American Press; destined to friend Mr. K. Abiko,
650 Ellis Street, San Francisco; 5 ft. 4 in.; mole end right
eye; in possession of reentry permit issued at Washington June
3, 1986 - No. 133437. His record shows former admission at
Seattle 1904; San Francisco directory, page 708, shows Japanese
American News Company, I. Kawashina, manager, address 650 Ellis
street.
The record of Mr. Shintaro Hara disclosed that his first
arrival in the United States was at Seattle, Washington, in
1904, and information concerning the particulars, if desired,
can be obtained from the U. S. Immigration Service at Seattle
or through the Commissioner of Immigration at Washington, D. C.
It will be noted that Hara's reentry permit was issued at Wash-
ington, and this permit, I am informed, carries his photograph
and full description and is on file in the office of the Com-
missioner of Immigration at Washington, D. C.
There is herewith a copy of the statement of owmerahip,
management, circulation, etc., of "The New World-Sun" dated
October 1, l937, and a copy of that newspaper, issue of April
6, 1938.
Respectfully submitted,
Rost Office Inspector.

=== Page 512 === (confidence 0.61)
Sratn of arneredo
1.c

=== Page 513 === (confidence 0.97)
OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT, CIRCULATTON, ETC., REQUIRED BY THE
ACTS OF CONGRESS OF AUGUST 24, 1912, AND MARCH 3, 1933
THE NEW WORLD-SUN
DAI LY
-published
(Insert title of publication.)
(State frequency of lasue.)
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA
OCTOBER 1, 1937
7
for.
198
(Name of post offos and State where publication is entered.)
CALIFORNIA
STATE OF.
SAN FRANCI SCO
COUNTY OF.
Before me,
Notary
in and for the State and county aforesaid, personally appeared
K. Ichimaru
who, having been duly sworn according to law, deposes and says that he is
Business Manager
THE NEW WORLD-SUN
the
of the
(State whether editor, publisher, bustness manager, or owner.)
(Insert title of publication.)
and that the following is, to the best of his knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership, management (and if a daily paper,
the circulation), etc., of the aforesaid publication for the date shown in the above caption, required by the Act of August 24,
1912, as amended by the Act of March 3, 1933, embodied in section 537, Postal Laws and Regulations, printed on the reverse
of this form, to wit:
1. That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, managing editor, and business managers are:
Name of—
Post office address
THE NEW WORLD-SUN
1618 Geary St.
S.F.
Publisher
T. ABE
1618 Geary St. SiT.
Editor
T. ODA
1618 Geury St. S.F.
Managing Editor.
K.IOHIMARU
1618 Geary St.k-S.F.
Business Managers.
2. That the owner is: (If owned by a corporation, its name and address must be stated and also immediately thereunder the
names and addresses of stockholders owning or holding one per cent or more of total amount of stock. If not owned by a corporation,
the names and addreses of the individual owners must be given. If owned by a firm, company, or other unincorporated concern,
its name and address well a thos of each individual member, must be given.)
THE
NEW WORLD-SUN
Geary St.
Geary St.
EUinx
Goury
Geary
Okagaki
Geary St.
S.F.
3. That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security holders owning or holding 1 per cent or more of total amount of
bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: (If there are none, so state.)
None
4. That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names of the owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain not only
the list of stockholders and security holders as they appear upon the books of the company but also, in cases where the stockholder or
security holder appears upon the books of the company as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the person or corporation
for whom such trustee is acting, is given; also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracing affiant's full knowledge and
belief as to the circumstances and conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon the books of the
company as trustees, hold stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner; and this affiant has no reason to believe
that any other person, association, or corporation has any interest direct or indirect in the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so
stated by him.
5. That the average number of copies of each issue of this publication sold or distributed, through
9501
the mails or otherwise, to paid subscribers during the twelve months preceding the date shown above is.
(This information is required from daily publications only.)
The New World Sun
(Signed)
K. Ichimaru
(Signature of editor, publisher, business manager, or owner.)
4
November
7
Sworn to and subscribed before me this.
day of.
193
(Signed)
Harry Cohn
Notary Public
[BEAL.]
March 29
(My commission expires.
Nors.—Tate statement must be made in duplicate and both copies delivered by the publisher to the postmaster, who shall send one copy to the Third Assistant
mal (Division of Classification), Washington, D. C., and retain the other in the fles of the post office. The publisher must publish a copy of this state-
019
POSTMASTER: BE SURE TO READ AND CAREFULLY OBSERVE INSTRUCTIONS ON THE OTHER SIDE.

=== Page 514 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
THE
HOKUBEI ASAHI
Japanese Daily News
1618 Geary Street
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
Postmaster
San Francisco, Calif.
Dear Sir:
This is to state that THE NEW WORLD DAILY NEWS,
heretofore published at 16Ol Geary St., San Fran-
cisco, and THE HOKUBEI ASAHI, herefofore published
at 16l8 Geary St., San Francisco, will be con-
solidated into one newspaper, the name of which
will be THE NEW WORLD-SUN, the first issue to be
dated June 20, 1935.
The New World-Sun
(Signed)
By
S. Hara
General Manager

=== Page 515 === (confidence 0.96)
To M tamiltn 
ADDRESS REPLY TO
POST OFFICE INSPECTOR IN CHARGE
4/18/38
AND QUOTE
Post Office Department
92390-xc
POST OFFICE INSPECTOR IN CHARGE
CWP:RWV
CHIEF
APR 1 8 1938
Apr1l 16, 1938.
T0
Subjoct. SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA: Information relative to
publication "New World".
Mr. R. C. Bannerman,
Chief Special Agent,
State Department,
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Bannerman:
Supplementing my letter of April 9, 1938, there
is herew1th, a memorandum dated April 15, 1938, cover-
ing additional information obtained by Inspector G. H.
Austin, relative to the publication of the "New World".
Sincerely yours,
C. W. Praffenberger,
Inspector in Charge.

=== Page 516 === (confidence 0.99)
San Francisco, California, April 15, 1938.
92390-XC
MEMORANDUM.
1. Referring to memoranda submitted April 8, l938,
concerning an inquiry made at the request of Mr. R. C.
Bannerman, Chief Special Agent, Depart of State, relative
to a Japanese newspaper known as "The New World", I beg
to call your attention to Paragraph 4 on Page 2 of said
memoranda wherein reference was ade to Mrs. Asae Ichimaru,
wife of the Editor in Chief of the Japanese newspaper "The
New World", now known as "The New World - Sun". It was
stated that Mrs. Ichimaru applied for a re-entry permit at
San Francisco under date of : arch 22, 1938, for the purpose
ovidently of visiting Japan.
2. Inspector W. E. Walsh of the Bureau of Immigration
and Naturalization just informed me that Mrs. Ichimaru will
leave San Francisco for Japan on the Tatsuto Maru, Saturday,
April 16, 1938, the number of her permit being 1192137, her
application No. 1l87667. Respectfully submitted.
Inspector.

=== Page 517 === (confidence 0.88)
April 4 1938.
.e
I have reseived your letter of Mareh 26, 1938,
sa s you mate eertain observatiens vith referense
te the Mexiean oil eituatien and ether mattere.
I have read your comsmieation with mech interest
fematien centaised therein.
894.20212/398
sineerely yours,
Sumner Welles
Under Seeretary
5
Yong Ken's Christian Association,
A
the
108 Iabaresdere,
na!
Sam Franeiseo, Califermia.
iF/A
ROT: RME
4/2
Ray

=== Page 518 === (confidence 0.85)
F/A
398
ARMY AND NAVY BRanCh
166 EMBARCADERO
MAR
SAn FRanCISCO, CALN
ack
712/38
DEPARTMENT OF STMI
RCT:RMA
PR  J030
Iindes Seaty of Stal,
Wachmyton S.
Apr1l 4 1938.
Jear Sii
Ock'd
S.
Which Casually
Cume to
ittinthon th, Watergront
Hab be liuthenter
May
xj
it ab ats foar Valur for
Canal Zone, Hawaiian and Philippine Islands and China.

=== Page 519 === (confidence 0.79)
2
Your offerial perogatins inn trirPresent
Expropriatioin Biths Mecueon Sout
I. wundera tand is Called the hene w orl
Pubhihed here in this Lity tn Editor
Mavy We pt my In for msteon is that
the Present Anrbiton ts hausthe Cil
on Petratum In dustry of W/ecces
reveeited os Exprabriated By theat
Sout Hate, Back to the Sunmen of
1935 on tho  aceasion thier Vinted
War Verset's Prusumably a trarinng
Gruiss tohich tikeuris had a son
Seolignt, T truusportetion Expirth thes
Ships Paid 0 Virit ts Lg apulpo a Tont
on ths Meucasy Oacifii Losst.this May

=== Page 520 === (confidence 0.82)
894.202121
of this Tort Haweuer then
Commission had a linghty
Fircussion with the
Centiral MDccear Paut
rigardiing th, Orient
would Lanane t work
For bil trauportaion
from the M icccay I a cific

=== Page 521 === (confidence 0.87)
4
Army And Navy Branch
YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION
166 EMBARCADERO
SAn FranCiSco, CALIF.
Correspondence Room
the Intucali Work:
hathasopar
Divelaped Ther Natural
Risaurce, are alo inthi
Seape as a Mattiroy fach
I an told that there is a
Sizeabb (roce pof tapanees
operating in ng Dcico(ily
and on the Merecan Jacifie
Coach ah pusent and
hame been io or king on this
Presenh Aunbition fn the
Past Four gears ind its
ian and is Stell
Maturity
Canal Zone, Hawaiian and Philippine Islands and China.

=== Page 522 === (confidence 0.79)
until such time as thiTapanier
which Hod har asscured itaelp to the
Workable I am offcourer only an
Zhetricean Worhing on m arnis
Mone Sdle Logic o Wiich we nous
haus o Much ap nawever Aence.
Stry tt mry ooerumnt af that
Coastt Haihor. o that torrilo

=== Page 523 === (confidence 0.81)
high Panting Tafranes!
6
as Warranting offiecal
Snoatgation jous Must
accep't My Iinsor mation
In io hatits really Worth
recommend th, itmosh
Survelance A Thes Enito
of thy To amar ta per
States as a wh'l.
I ain Viny Trily
yaur
HubertWalone

=== Page 524 === (confidence 0.99)
ARMY AND NAVY BRANCH
YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION
166 Embaraadero
San Francisco, California
March 26, 1938
Hon. Sumner D. Welles
Under Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sir:
I feel that information which casually came to my
attention on the waterfront here in San Francisco may or
may not be authentic however you may accept it at its face
value for your official perogative in the present expropria-
3
tion by the Mexioan Government of the oil industry in Mexico.
There is a Japanese newspaper which I understand is called
the New World published here in this city. Its editor is as
I am informed the unofficial representative of the Imperial
Japanese Navy Dept. My information is that the present
am ition to have the oil or petroleum industry of Mexico
reverted or expropriated by that Govt dates back to the summer
of l935 on that occasion their visited Pacific Coast ports
several Japanese war vessels presumably a training cruise
which likewise had a mission of experts in its roster Naval
and civilian geologists and transportation experts. These
ships paid a visit to Agapulpo a port on the exican Pacific
Coast. This may not be the correct spelling of this port.
However this Commission had a lengthy discussion with the
Central Mexican Govt. regarding the present oil situation and
the Japanese Govt. offered an inducement to the Mexican

=== Page 525 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
State that they would finance the work of establishing the
requirements of pipe lines and harbour improvements for
oil transportation from the Mexican Pacific Coast. Much
detail has since consumated in the intricate work that has
so far developed. Other natural resources are alsò in this
scope.As a matter of fact I am told that there is a sizeable
group of Japanese operating in Mexico City and on the Mexican
Pacific Coast at present and have been working on this
present ambition for the past four years and its maturity was
and is still supposed to be piece meal until such time as the
Japanese Govt. Commission could guarantee the feasibility of
the original plan which now has assured itself to be workable.
I am of course only an electrician working on marine work on
San Francisco Bay and my pen is most humble therefore this
information may be just some more idle logic of which we now
have so much of. However since this was given to me two
years ago and developments are maturing according to original
information I am compelled to offer this humble story to my
government. At that tine I also was given much information by
a zealous German who told me of a German cruiser that visited
Alaskan waters in the guise of a friendly visit which actually
surveyed the entire coast and harbors of that territory and
had as its guests on board five high ranking Japanese naval
officers. Now sir if you consider this as warranting official
investigation you must accept my information for what it is
worth. However I will frankly recommend the utmost surveiliance
of this Editor of the Japanese paper New World for I under-

=== Page 526 === (confidence 0.98)
-3
stand he far exceeds his position for the welfare of the
United States as a whole.
I am very truly yours,
(signed) Hubert F. Malone

=== Page 527 === (confidence 0.98)
ARMY AND EAVY BRANCH
YOUNG MEN'S OHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION
166 Embareadero
San Pranoisoo, California
Maroh 26, 1938
Hon. Sumner D. Welles
Under Seoretary of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear S1r:
I feel that information which casually came to my
attention on the waterfront here in San Franoisoo may or
may not be authentic however you may aocept it at its faoe
value for your offioial perogative in the present expropria-
tion by the Meriean Government of the oil industry in Mexioo.
There is a Japanese newepaper whioh I understand is called
the New World published here in this oity. Its editor is as
I am informed the unofficial reptesentative of the Imperial
Japanese Navy Dept. My information is that the present
amtition to have the oil or petroloum industry of Mexioo
reverted or expropriated by that Govt dates back to the summer
of l935 on that oocasion their visited Paoifio Coast ports
several Japanese war vessels presumably a training oruise
whioh likewise had a mission of experts in its roster Naval
and oivilian geologists and transportation experts. These
ships paid a visit to Agapulpo a port on the Mexioan Pacifio
Coast. This may not be the orreot spelling of this port.
However this Commission had a lengthy discussion with the
Central Mexican Govt. regarding the present oil situation and
the Japanese Govt. offered an induoement to the Mexican

=== Page 528 === (confidence 0.98)
-3
State that they would finanoe the work of establishing the
requirements of pipe lines and harbour improvements for
oll transportation Trom the Mexican Pacifio Coass. Much
detail has sinoe consumated in the intrioate work that has
so far developed. Other natural resources are als in this
soope,As a matter of faot I am told that there is a siseable
group of Japanese operating in Mexioo City and on the Mexican
Pacifio Coast at present and have been working on this
present ambition for the past four years and its maturity was
and is still supposed to be pieoe meal until such time as the
Japanese Govt. Commission could guarantee the feasibility of
the original plan whioh now has assured itself to be workable.
I am of course only an electrioian working on marine work on
San Franoisco Bay and my pen 1s most humble therefore this
information may be just some more idle logio of which we now
have so muoh of. However since this was given to me two
years ago and developments are maturing according to oraginal
information I am ompelled to offer this humble story to my
government. At that time I also was given muoh information by
a sealous German who told me of a German oruiser that visited
Alaskan waters in the guise of a friendly visit which actually
surveyed the entire coast and harbors of that territory and
had as its guests on board five high ranking Japanese naval
officers. Now sir if you consider this as warranting offioial
investigation you must accept my information for what it is
worth. However I will frankly recommend the utmost surveiliance
of this Editor of the Japanese paper New World for I under-

=== Page 529 === (confidence 0.97)
-3
stand he far exoeeds his position for the welfare of the
United States as a whole.
I am very truly youre,
(signed) Hubert F. Malone

=== Page 530 === (confidence 0.98)
tin American Section
TARY INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
WAR DEPARTMENT
Secretary of War
Assistant Secretery of War
Secretary, Gonoral Staff
G-1
G-3
G-4
War Plans Division
Statistics Branch
Budgot & Logislative Pl. Br.
Adjutant Genoral's Dopt.
Army Industrial Collegc
Army War College
Air Corps (Liaison Officer)
Cavalry
Chemical erfere Sorvice
Coast Artillory Corps
Corps of Enginoers
Command & Genoral Staff School
Fiold Artillory
Finance
Infantry
Inspoctor Goncral's Dept.
Insular Affairs
Judge Advocate General's Dept.
Militia Buroau
Office of Naval Intolligence
Ordnance Dopt.
Quartormastor Gunoral's Dopt.
Signal Corps
Surgoon Gencral's Office
State Dopt.:
Eastorn Europe
Western Europo
Near East
Latin America
Far East
Mexican Affairs
Commorco Dept.:
Forcign & Domestic Comnorce
Automotivo & Acronautics
APR 2
FILED
Trade Division
M.A., Mexico
M.A.,
G-2, 8th Corps Arca
G-2, 9th Corps Area
G-2,
For your information and file
Noto and roturn
Note and send to
ua

=== Page 531 === (confidence 0.88)
SONFIDENTIAL
2657-0-657
254
HADUANTERS FIAST AVALRY DIVISIO
orfiee of the Divisien Commmmder
/ahe
In reply
PORT BLISS, PEXAS
Febrary 11, 1938.
810:00
Majer Maloakm Y. Ldaey.
ssistant Chief of staff,
Eeadquartere Eighth Corpe Area,
Fort Sam Houstom, Tems.
Dear Majer Limdsey:
Ome J. Lais Cellin. Mining gimeer. Calle Num. . Num. 7. Cd,
Chimm, Chihe, Hexice, called at my affice this morning with the fell wing
infermtion:
8
B In Rovember 1937, tre1ve (22) Japanese loft Chihuakmm City and
6
ant westeard iate the Géerre ladre vie eerrere, Chihumhum and are belired
to have gome on to the west coast.
o On Deeembar 26th, four (4) dapanese passed through Guaneatiri n
2
O
  Desember Znd. ixteen (26) dapamese loft Chihahe City' and
2
are believed to have eressed the sierre Madree and gene on to the west ocest.
2
Mre Cellin believes these dapanese greups te be agente of the dape-
1
3
mese Gevermmsnt, whe are primarily interested in roads and trails. Greng
99
La kmem to have had priamatle ar allar eapasses, and may have had eter
state thay are xinere. They appeared to have planty as funds and were waill
dressed.
Mre Cellin, befere he was ment te thie offiee, teld the Department
of Justiee and ire drian Peel, Cellester of Üustoma, of his feare that
Nerthestern liexiee is being sub jeeted to espionage motivities by the Japanese
Gevermment. e teld this efrise that he has obeerved their aotivities in
Western Soness and Gimmlem fer the past several years and is theroughly can-
vineed that they ure moving east of the Sierre Madre Mountains.
This affise, from presant and former indicatiens doss not doubt that
the abeve statements are true to a greater or lesser degres. Whether thelr
7
mehimetiome are primarily from an soonomic viewpoint or from a purely mili-
1
tary viewpoint or both is unknowm.
A
Sincerely,
. T. .
Uajer, General Starf.
. of . .
