894.55 Japan, Immigration. Head Tax., March 31, 1931 - June 19, 1939 (File 1105)
ID: 894.55-1105   Pages: 176   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.55-japan-immigration-head-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.94)
OF
STATES OF AMERICA
EE
roh 31,1931
3
o. 179.
50
8
APR2531
whe
894.55/1
MAY 4 1981
894.5
MAI 29 1931
FILED
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State,
liashington.
Sir:
In compliance with the Department's mimeographed
ciroular instruotion of January 30, 193l, I have the honor
to transmit herewith copies in translation of the laws
1,2/.
regulating the entry of aliens to (1) Japan, and to (2)
the South Sea Islands of Japan . A copy in translation
of the law regulating the entry of aliens into Kwantung
Leased Territory and the Railway Zone was transmitted to
the
H

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
the Depart ent from the American onsul at Dairen vith
894c.1113
his despatoh dated March 28, 1918(file 1o. 81l.1).
Respectfully yours,
i. Cameron Forbes.
Enclosures:
1 and 2. As stateu.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
179
REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE ENTRY
OF ALIENS INTO JAPAN.
(Crdinance No. 1 issuea by the vepartment
of Home Afrairs on January 4, 1918)
Revised under Ordinance No. l issued by the
same epartment in april, 19l, and
under ordinance No. lo issuea by the
same Department in April, 1924.
Regulations regarding the entry into Japan of
foreigners are established as follows:
ARTICLE 1. aliens arriving in Japan who are
considered as included in any one of the following classes
may be prohibited from lanuing by rrefectural Governors
(in the case of Tokyo-fu, by Superintendent of the
Metropolitan Police Uffice):
1. Those persons not in possession of a passport
or certificate of nationality.
2.
Those vho act against the welfare or the Empire
or who are suspected of acting in the interests
of the enemy.
3.
Those who are likely to disturb public peace or to
subvert public morals.
4.
Paupers and professional beggars.
5.
Persons sufrering from contagious diseases or other
diseases dangerous to the publio health.
6.
Imbeciles, feeble-minded persons, indigent persons,
and those likely to become public charges.
The passport or certificate of nationality mentioned
in Item 1 of the above paragraph must have a photograph of the
bearer attached; must have been issued by the authorities of the
bearer's country, and must have been visaed by an Ambassador,
or

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
or Minister, or consular officer of the Empire stationed
abroad, within a period of one year prior to landing in Japan.
ARTICLE 2. The stipulations of Item 1 or the first
paragraph of Article 1 shail not be onforceu against the
subjects or citizens of those countries which do not require
passports or certificates of naticnelity. of Japanese subjects.
The stipulations of the second paragraph relating to visaes
in Article 1 shall mot be enforced against the subjects or
citizens of those countries which do not require Japanese
the authorities of that country.
ARTICLE 3. An alien, upon his arrival in Japan, shall
exhibit his passport, or certificate of nationality to the police
authorities upon their request, and must make true st tenents
in reply to their incuiries regarding matters mentioned in the
several items of the first paragraph of Article 1, and other
pertinent matters.
ARTICLE 4. An alien who violates the provisions of
Article 3, or uses a passport or certificate of nationality,
bearing the name of another person, or has his passport or
certificate of nationality visaed by fraudulent means may be
forbidden to enter, or be deported from, Japanese territory
by Prefeotural Governors.
ARTICLE 5. The provisions of the present Ordinance shall
not be applied to Ambassadors, Ministers, their suites, consular
officers and staffs,and their families, of foreign countries
stationed in the Empire, nor to those who are on official
business of a foreign country. The above provisions shall also
not be applied to the crews of ships of foreign countries entering
Japanese ports.
Supplementary

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
Supplementary Rules.
The present Ordinance shall be enforced from the
date of promulgation. However, the provisions relating
to passports or certificates of nationality shall be
enforced from February 1, 191.
In the case of a foreigner who is on : is way to Japan
before February 1, 19l8, and who cannot obtain a passport
or certificate or naturalization, or the visa prescribed
in Article 1, of the present Ordinance, the requirements
of Item 1 of paragraph 1 of Article 1 shall not be ap lied
to him.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
Bnolosure No.
Prom Am
MATTERS RELATING TO THE ENTRY OF
ALIENS INTO THE SOUTH SEA ISLAL.DS
(Ordinance No. 1 issued by the South Sea
Administration Office on February Z, 1925.
Regulations relating to the entry into the South
Sea Islands of oreigners are established as follows:
ARTICLE 1. Aliens arriving at the South Sea Islands
who are considered as included in any one of the following
classes may be prohibited from lrraing by the uhief of the
branch office of the South Sea Administration Office:
1.
Those persons not in possecrion of a pas port
or certificate of nationality .
2.
Those who act against the welfare of the Empire,
or who are suspected of acting in the interests
of the enemy .
Those who are likely to disturb the public peace
or to subvert public morals.
4. Paupers and professional beggars.
Persons surlerin from contagious diseases or
other diseases, dangerous to the public health.
6.
Imbeciles, feeble-m nded persons, indigent persons,
and t ose likely to become public charges.
The passport or certificate of nationality mentioned in
Item 1 of the above paragraph must have a photograph of the
bearer attached; must have been issued by the authorities of
the bearer's country, and must have been visaed by an abassador,
or Minister, or consular officer of the Empire stationed abroad
within a period of one year prior to landing at the South Sea
Islands except in case the bearer arrives at the Islands from
other districts of the Empire.
ARTICLE 2.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
ARTICLE 2. The stipulations of Item 1 of the first
paragraph of Article l shall not be enforced &ainst the
subject or citizen of those countries which do not require
passports or certificates of nationulity of Jupanese subjects.
The stipulations of the second paragraph of article 1 re-
lating to visa shall also not be enforceu ugainst the subjects
or citizens or those countries whicn do not require Japanese
subjects to present passports or certificates of nationality
of Japanese subjects. visaed by the authori ies o. that country.
ARTICLE 3. An lien, upon his arrival at the South Sea
Islands, shall exhibit his passport or certificate of nationalit
to the police authorities upon their request, and ust make
true statements in reply to their inquiries regarding matters
mentioned in the several items or the irst paragraph of
Article 1, and other pertinent matters.
ARTICLE 4. An alien who violates the provisions of
Article 3, or uses a passport or certificate of nationality
bearing the name of another person, or has his passport or
certificate of nationality visaed by fraudalent me ans may be
forbidden to enter, or be deported from, the South Sea
Islands by the Chief of the branch office of the South Sea
Administration Uffice.
ARTICLE 5. The provisions of the present Ordinance shall
not be applied to Ambassadors, Ministers, their suites,
consular officers and staffs, and their families of foreign
countries stationed in the Empire, nor to those who are on
official business of the government of a foreign country.
The above provisions shall also not be applied to the crews
of

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
of ships of a foreign country entering the ports of the
South Sea Islands.
Supplementary Rules.
The present Ordinance shall be enforced from the
date of promulgation(gazetted on May 13, 1925).
In the case of an alien who is on his way to the South
Sea Islands at the time or the enforcement of the present
Ordinance and who cannot obtain a passport or certificate
of nationality or its visa prescribed in Article l of the
present ordinance, the requirenents of Item 1 of paragraph
1 of Article 1 shall not be applied to him.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894/55
2
SEE800.504/36
FOR
despatch #114
939
FROM ......Tokyo
(Hutchinson.) DATED ..Nov.18,1932.
TO
NAME
REGARDING:
Immigration laws of Japan.
Transmits report thereon.
T
DEC 7- 1932
mc

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.94)
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Taihoku, Taiwan, Japan, December 16, 1925.
SubJeCT: TRANSMISSION OF TRANSLATIONS OF TAIWAN
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS.
VGL
JAN 1) 1926
Departmept of State.
THE ONORABL
For Distribution
THE SECRETARY F STATE,
8
VISA OF FITASHINGTON
h
IAN 30
Sir:
ed.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
EBe
5
I have the honor to refer to the Department's tel-
S
egram of December 9, 1925, and to confirm my telegraphic
2
reply of December 12, 1925 stating that the regulations gov-
erning the immigration of Chinese laborers to Taiwan, trans-
lations of which had been transmitted to the Department by
this Consulate ( the Tamsui ) in a despatch dated February
5, l9l0, are still in force with slight modifications, but
that specific restrictions on the admission of persons other
than laborers, whether immigrants or otherwise, had been
abolished in 1921, and to transmit herewith tranelations of
all the laws and regulations now in force.
FEB
The translations herewith enclosed are of all the stat-6
1926
utes, ordinances, rules and regulations effective in Taiwan
concerning the immigration of Chinese laborers, the immigra-
tion of Chinese persons other than laborers, as well as such
as relate to the immigration of aliens of other nationalities
and the admission of aliens generally.
The enolosed translations have been made by the Inter-
preter at this Consulate with sorupulous care to interpret
accurately

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
accurately the text of all the pertinent laws and regulations
on this subject, all of which are contained in the " Compilations
of Taiwan Laws and Regulations " ( "Taiwan Horei Shuran" ),
edition of 1923, compiled and published by the Taiwan Government
Heneral, and which I have since the receipt of the Department's
said telegram oarefully checked with the Immigration Division
of the Bureau of Police Affairs of the Taiwan Government Gen-
eral as to the accuracy thereof and as embodying all the laws,
regulations, and rules at present applicable.
There are no printed or other formal rules other than
those of which translations are herewith enclosed, although it
may be assumed that the Taiwan immigration officers are vested
with wide discretion in all matters relating to the admission
of aliens, and also that after the due admission of any alien
he is kept under constant police surveillance so long as he
remains within Taiwan jurisdiction. No discrimination against
Chinese persons is admitted.
It is not to be inferred that Chinese laborers, or other
aliens, when lawfully admitted to Taiwan have any reason to
complain of lack of courtesy, or of opportunity to pursue law-
ful avocations, or that they are subjected to unusual or un-
pleasant restrictions.
It is to be added that no problem of Chinese immigration
to Taiwan appears to exist at the present time, despite the
political and industrial diffioulties prevailing in China in
contrast with the peace and propperity of Taiwan. It is of-
ficially stated that during 1924 only 6,819 Chinese laborers
were admitted to Taiwan, and 3,543 Chinese non-laborers, and
that a muoh smaller number were refused.
The numbers admitted:
and refused during l925 are officially stated to have bean
substantially the same as for 1924.
Further comment is deferred, as I am uniformed as to the
precise

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
precise purpose or the scope of the Department's said tele-
graphic inquiry.
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your obedient servant,
Chas. L. De Vault,
American Consul.
Enclosures:
Translations of the Laws,
Ordinances, and Regulations
concerning Immigration and
Admission of Aliens.
855.
CLD/

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
Translation.
REGULATIONS GOVERNING CHINESE LABORERS.
(Shina Rodosha Torishimar1 Kisoku)
Taiwan Government General Administrative Order No. 68,
of September 24, 1904, as amended by No. 25, 1915,
and by No. 198, 1920.
Regulations Governing Chinese Laborers are hereby
enaoted as follows.
Article 1. Cninese laborers are permitted to land
and work in Taiwan under the following regulations.
Article 2. Chinese laborers named in these regulations
are those persons who engage in labor of agriculture, fishing,
mining, public works, building, manufacture, transportation,
and like occupations of manual effort.
Article 3. Upon landing in Taiwan, chinese laborers
are required to exhibit a sailing certificate, which shall
have been issued by an agent or agenoy handling Chinese labor-
ers.
Article 4. Chinese laborers must land at the port which
is named in the ir sailing certificates, and then obtain land-
ing permits, which will be issued upon the presentation of
their sailing certificates.
Article 5. Those who have obtained landing permits may
live and travel in any part of the Island.
Article 6. Ohinese laborers are required to carry at
all times their landing permits. In case a landing permit
is either lost or destroyed, the laborer may apply for a
new permit to the Government office from whioh the permit
was originally issued.
Article 7. Upon departing from this Island, Ohinese
laborers are required to return their landing permits.
Article 8. An agent or agenoy handling Chinese laborers
1s

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
is required to file a security with the Bovernment either
in money or in national loan bonds,as designated by the
Governor General of Ta iwan, for faithful discharge of his
duties.
Article 9. An agent or agency handling Chinese labor-
ers shall issue a sailing certificate containing the fol-
low ing particulars to a Chinese laborer before the laborer
sails for Taiwan:
Name, native place, age, class of work, and
landing-port in Taiwan.
A photograph of the applicant must be at tached and
stamped with a seal.
Article 10. An agent or agency handling Chinese labor-
ers is not allowed to issue a sailing certificate to a person
coming under any of the following:
(a) A person of weak health either from sickness
or otherwi se.
(b) A person who has been previously rejected.
(o) A person whose status is unknown.
Artiole ll. An agent or agency handling Chinese labor-
ers shall be responsible for the following with respect to
laborers handled by him:
(a) Relief in oase of sickness or ac cident.
(b) Deportation by order of the Government.
Article l2. A Provincial or Prefectural Governor is
authorized to deport such Chinese laborers as are considered
harmful to the order and well-being of society.
Article 13. The Governor Gen eral of Taiwan may suspend
the business or revoke the license of an agent or ageny
handling Chinese laborers in case an aot of the said agent
or agenoy is in violation of the regulations or of ins true-
tions of the Government or is considered inimical to the
publio order.
In the

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
In the foregoing case such agent or agenoy shall not
be exempted from carrying out obligations stipulated in these
regulations concerning laborers already imported by him.
Article 14. In case an agent or agency handling Chinese
laborers fails to carry out any of the obligations stipulated
in these regulations concerning laborers handled by him, the
Government shall take charge; and any cost for this action
shall be defrayed out of the security; and the Government
may order such an agent or agency to replenish shortage in
the security.
Artiole 15. The captain of the vessel which has carried
Chinese laborers who have no sailing certifica tes issued by
an agent or agemy hand ling Chinese laborers shall be liable
to a fine not exceeding Yen lo0, and also for the cost of
deporting the laborers in question. In case the said captain
does not provide for the deportation of the laborers, he shall
be fined not exceeding Yen 100.
Article 16. In the following cases a fine not exceeding
Yen 200 shall be imposed:
(a) Any person who acts as an agent or agenoy
handling laborers without a lioense.
(b) Any person who has induoed or assisted immigra tion
of Chinese laborers who have not complied with
the requirements of these regulations.
(o) When an agent or agency handling Chinese laborers
has violated the provisions of Article 10 or
Artiole 11.
(a) When an agent or agenoy handling Chinese laborers
has disregarded an order of suspension of business
provided in Olause 1 of Article 13 or has failed
to oarry out obligations mentioned in Clause 2
of the said Artiole.
Article 17. Chinese laborers coming under any of the
following shall be fined not exoeeding Yen 50:
(a) Those who have violated the provisions of Artiole
(b)

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
(b) Those who have no landing permit.
(0)
Those who do not leave the lsland within one month
after they have received an order mentioned in
Article 12.
Supplementary.
Article 18.
These regulations shall take effect from
October 1, 1904.
Article 19. The "Regulations Governing Chinese Tea
Laborers", Administrative Order No. 98, of 1898, and the
"Regulations Governing Chinese Laborers", Administra tive
Order No. 74, of 1899, are hereby abolished.
Article 20. Tea Laborers Permits, the validity of which
has not expited, granted under the "Regulations Governing
Chinese Tea Laborers", Administrative Order No. 98, of 1898,
and landing permits issued in accordance with the "Regulations
Governing Chinese Laborers", Administrative Order No. 74, of
l899, shall be considered as landing permits provided in
these regulations.
Article 2l. Contractors for laborers provided in the
"Regulations Governing Chinese Laborers", Administrative
Order No. 74, 1899, shall not be exempted from obligations
stipulated in the said regulations concerning laborers
contracted by them.
Supplementary to Administrative Order No. 198, 1920:
These regulations shall be in foroe from the date of
promulgation, provided, however, that the amendment to
Artiole 8 shall take effeot from April 1, 1921.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.98)
Translation.
*
REGULATIONS REGARDING ENFOROEMENT OF THE
"REGULATIONS GOVERNING CHINESE LABORERS" (Shina
Rodosha Torishimari Kisoku Shiko Saisoku)
Taiwan Government Gen eral Instruotion to
Provinoial and Prefectural Govern-
ments, No. 242, of September,
1904, as amended by
Ins truction No. 59, 1915, and by
NO. 34, 1921.
The Regulations Regarding Enforcement of the
"Regulations Governing Chinese Laborers" are established
as follows:
Artiole 1. When a person desires to land under the
provisions of Article 4 of the "Regulations Governing
Chinese Laborers", he and his sailing certificate shall be
examined; and if considered satisfactory a necessary entry
must be made in a record book as provided in the orm No.
1 herewith, and a landing permit pr ovided in the rorm No.
2 shall be granted to the said person.
Article 2. When application is made by a person
desir ing to obtain a license as an agent or agency handling
Chinese laborers in accordance with the provisions of
Artiole 8 of the "Regulations Governing Chinese Laborers",
the following mat ters shall be investigated and reported
with opinions attached:
(a) Legal domicile, place of residence, occupation,
olass, name, and age.
(b) Career.
(0)
Finanoial standing.
(a) Measures for relief of Chinese laborers in case
of sickness or accident.
Artiole 3. Any person not bearing a sailing certificate
issued by an agent or agemy handling Ohinese laborers must
be treated as a laborer if such a person angages in labor
after landing in Taiwan.
Article 4.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Article 4. Any act of an agent or agency handling
Chinese laborers considered in viola tion of the regulations
or ins truc tions or harmful to public order must be reported.
Article 5. Any action taken in cases stipulated under
Article 15 of the "Regulations Governing Chinese Laborers"
must be reported.
Article 6. Grocers, clerks, shopmen, or minors under
15 years of age must be trea ted as la borers when they carry
with them sailing certificates issued by an agent or agency
handling Chinese laborers.
Article 7. Whenever a Chinese laborer leaves Ta iwan,
the County Chief, sub-Prefect, or the chief of rolice of
the port from which the said laborer departs must cause
the said laborer to exhibit his certificate and landing
permit.
Artiole 8. Whenever the County Chief, sub-Prefect,
or the Chief of Police considers that a Chinese labor requires
relief on account of sickness or accident, he shall issue
instruc tions to an agent or agency handling Chinese laborers
to extend necessary relief in accordance with the provisions
of Artiole ll of the "Regulations Governing Chinese Laborers".
A Chinese laborer ordered deported but unable to pay
his traveling expenses must be treated in accordance with
the foregoing.
Article 9. The County Chief, Sub-Prefect, or the
Chief of Police shall deport a Chinese laborer coming under
any of the following, with the approval of the Governor or
Prefect:
(a) A person coming under the provis ions of Artiole
9 of the "Regulations Governing Foreigners",
Administrative Order No. 71, of 1899.
(b) A person coming under the provisions of Article
12 of the "Regulations Governing Ohinese La bor-
ers".
(0)

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
(o) A person who misleads others by fortune telling
or by religious superstition.
(a) Quack medicine peddlers, fortune tellers, or
teachers of Chinese private schools (Shobo).
(e) Peadlers or entertainers who circulate wild and
unfounded rumors.
(f) A person previously convicted more than three
times for larceny, or an ex-convict whose
reform is considered hopeless.
(g) A person who refuses to be trea ted as a laborer
under the provis ions of Article 3.
Whenever a person refuses to be deported in accordance
with the foregoing, the County Chief, Sub-Prefect, or the
Chief of Police shall submit a detailed report covering
such case to the Provincial or Prefectural Governor.
Whenever the Provincial or Prefectural Governor deems
deportation necessary in accordance with Item (a) of clause
1 herewith, he shall submit a detailed report covering such
case to the Governor General of Taiwan with request for
instruc tions.
Article 10. A person deported under advice or order
in accordance with the provisions of the preceding Article
shall be under police surveillance until he shall have
departed from Taiwan.
A person deported under the preceding Clause shall be
reported in accordance with the Form No. 3 herewith.
Artiole ll. The Provinoial or Prefectural Governor
who has deported a person shall inform the Japanese consul
in whose consular district the native place of the deported
person is located of such deportation, giv ing native place,
the name, age, and occupation of the deported person as
well as reasons for such deportation. Such notice must be
sent through the Government General of Taiwan in case the
native place of the deported person is located outside
the

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.97)
- 4 -
the consular dis triots of Japanese consuls at Foochow,
Amoy, Swatow, and Canton. Such notice should be accompanied
by a photograph of the deported person except in cases of
emergenoy.
Article 12.
The Provincial or Prefectural Governor
of the district in which an agent or agency handling Ohinese
laborers has his office shall cause such agent or agency
to prepare a list of the number of la borers landed or
returned in accordance with the Form No. 4 herewi th, and
shall forward such list for the previous month not later
than the loth of the follow ing month to the Government
General of Taiwan.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
Translation.
Form No. 1.
REGISTER OF LANDING PERMI TS
GRAN TED TO CHINESE LABORERS.
Number of permit.
Native place.
Name and age.
Class of la bor.
Port of landing.
Name of agent or agenoy handling laborers.

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
Translation.
Form No. 2.
LANDING PERMIT.
Name and age
Native place
Class of labor
Port of landing
Name of agent or agenoy handling laborers.
This permit is granted in accordance with the pro-
visions of Article 4 of the "Regulations Governing Chinese
Laborers".
Date.
Name of Provinoial or Prefectural
Government. (seal)
(Photograph to be attached here)
(Note: Same photograph as used in the sailing cer-
tificate should be attached.)
Chinese translations of the provisions of Artioles
4, 5, 6, 7, 12, and 17 of the "Regulations Regarding
Enforcement of Regulations Governing Ohinese Laborers"
are pr inted here.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
Translation.
Form No. 3.
REPORT ON CHINESE LABORERS DEPORTED.
To the Governor General of Taiwan.
Da te.
Name of Provincial or Prefectural Governor.
vate of order of deportation
Date of embarkation and sailing
Place of embarkation and name of ship
Native place
Place of temporary residence
Occupation
Name
Age
Reason for deportation.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
Translation.
Form No. 4.
LIST OF CHINESE LA BORERS LANDED IN OR
RETURNED FROM TAIWAN DURING TH MONTH
OF
Na tive places and classes of chinese Laborers.
Canton
Foochow
Amoy
Occupation. ale. emale. Male. Female. male. Female.
To tal
Farm laborer
Fireman
Chair carrier
Jinrikisha man
miner
Fishermam
Eto.
Note: The above classifica tion of labor is
merely mentioned here in a general way as a matter of
guidance. Exact nature of labor of each person concerned
should be stated.
Chinese laborers landed or returned shall be
reported in separate tables.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
Translation.
REGULATIONS GOVERNING ENTRY OF ALIENS.
Taiwan Government General Administra tive
Order No. 7, of February 10, 1918, as amended by
No. 149 of 1921 and by No. 118 of 1922.
The Regulations Governing Entry of Aliens are hereby
established as follows:
Artiole 1. The Provincial or Prefectural Governor
may prohibit landing of an alien arriving in Taiwan when
ever such an alien is recognized as coming under any of
the follow ing:
(a) An alien not possessing a passport or a cer-
tificate nationality.
(b) An alien suspected of acting against the
interests of Japan or of assisting an enemy.
(o) An alien suspected of doing harm to the publio
order or of corrupting good manners.
(a) A vagrant or a beggar.
(e) An alien suffering from epidemic or other dis-
eases dangerous to public health.
(f) An insane person, a person of mental deficieny,
a destitute or other person liable to become
a public charge.
The passport or the certificate of nationality men-
tioned in the preceding clause shall bear a photograph of
the bearer thereof, which passport or cer tificate shall
have been issued by his own Government and visaed by a
Japanese ambassador, minister, or consul in a foreign
country within one year prior to his landing in Japan.
Article 2. The requirements of Item (a) of Clause
1 of the preceding Article may be specially waived in the
case of a subjeot or a citisen of a country which does not
require a Japanese subject to exhibit a passport or a
certificate of nationality conoerning his entry into that
country.
Artiole 8.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Artiole 3. An alien arriving in Ta iwan shall, on
demand by a competent police officer, exhibit his passport
or certifioate of nationality, and shall make true and
correct answera to questions conoerning investigation of
the various items of Clause 1 of Article 1 and other
neoessary matters.
Article 4. The Provincial or Prefeotural Governor
may prohibit the landing or order the deportation of an
alien who violates the provisions of the preceding Article,
or uses a passport or a certificate of nationality issued
in a name other than his own, or who has obta ined visa of
his passport or oertificate of nationality by fraudulent
means.
Artiole 5. The requirements of these regulations shall
not be applied to foreign ambassadors, ministers, embassy
or legation staffs, consular officers, staffs of consulates,
members of
their/families, or other persons on official duty of foreign
governments, or to members of crews of foreign vessels
arriving at Japanese ports.
Supplemen tary:
These regulations shall be in foroe from the day of
promulga tion, pr ovided, however, that the provisions con-
cerning passports or certifica tes of nationality shall be
enforced from February 20, 1918.
The provisions of item (a) of Clause 1 of Article 1
of these regulations mmy be wa ived in case of an alien
en route to Taiwan on the day mentioned in the preceding
provise who has been, on reasonable grounds, unable to
obtain a passport or a certifioate of nationality or visa
thereof.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 30, 1933.
PHATKON
Yokohama's despatoh No. 132 of February
28, 1933, gives the details of the incident
of February 5 which involved the detertion
of the S/S PRESIDENT JEFIERSON in Yokohama
harbor by the polioe. It appears that while
the ship was undergoing quarantine inspection,
police and immigration officials came along-
side to board the ship to perform their duties
but were prevented from boarding by the
junior deck offioer on the grounds that
persons could not be admitted until conclusion
of the quarantine inspection. Not all the
officers attempting to board were in uniform.
Another of the ship's officers i mediately
reoognized who the ununiformed Japanese were
and informed the junior deck officer, who
then attempted to correct the matter by in-
viting them on board. But their aignity
was already wounded and they imediately re-
turned to the pier. on conelusion of the
quarantine inspection the ship proceeaed to
the dock where it arrivea ut 8.43 a.m., but
the harbor offioers prevented normal com-
munioation with the snip until the Anerican
Consul had taken up the matter and at 11.45
a.m. had seoured resumption of usual activi-
ties.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
Consul De Vault made representations to
the Governor of Prefecture in the matter and
received from him a letter justifying the
attitude of the Japanese officials. a fur-
ther exohange of letters, however, evidently
brought about a satisfactory conclusion of
the affair.
It would appear that no action at
present is necessary and that the attached
file need be read only for purposes of
reference in the event of a recurrence.
CC:CIS

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.96)
132.
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Yokohama, Japan, February 28, 1933.
APR 12 1933
90
BNISION OF FOREIGN
VI ADMINISTNA
4
SUBJECT:
Detention of American Mail Line
S/S "President Jefferson" in Yokohama
1905
harbor by Yokohama Harbor Police.
89
94.55
THE HONORABLE
Division on
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
WASHINGTON
AMAR 1933
3
SIR:
Deparent a State
I have the honor to report that on February 5, 1933
the American Mail Line S/S "President Jefferson" was, by
the Yokohama Harbor police, held at the pier in the harbor
of Yokohama in "isolation from communication" for a period
of about three (3) hours, from 7:37 a.m. to 1l:45 a.m. on
APR 15
FILED
that day, a circumstance which required my official inter-
cession, and to report that as the result of such inter-
1933
cession a settlement of the affair has been arrived at as
of February 25, l933, which is distinctly satisfactory to
the management in Yokohama and the management in Tokyo of
the Amerioan Mail Line, to the Master of the vessel, and
H
to all others concerned. The settlement, of which, with
all the ciroumstances, the Embassy and the Consulate Gen-
oral, Tokyo, have been kept informed, is likewise approved
by them.
A copy of all correspondence of this office with the
Japanese

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Japanese authorities concerned, and of the correspon-
donce of the management in Yokohama of the American
Mail Line with the Japanese authorities, is attached
hereto and made a part hereof.
Intercession by me was requested in person by
Captain A. O. Lustie, Master of said vessel, and by
Mr. F. Clare Thompson, resident General Agent in Yoko-
hama for the American Mail Line. The request, made at
8:15 a.m. on said February 5, 1933, Sunday, was imme-
diately responded to by my proceeding forthwith to the
Yokohama Harbor police office, where, and on board said
vessel, I remained, together with the said Master and
General Agent, until the termination of the vessel's
"isolation", and the resumption of its usual activities,
at 1l:45 a.m. on said day.
The "isolation" of the vessel was so terminated
only as the result of communication by me by telephone
from the vessel with the office of the Governor of
Kanagawa Prefecture, who has jurisdiction of Yokohama
port and harbor authorities.
The inoident arose wholly, as will be seen from
the attaohed oorrespondence, including the reports of
the Master and the junior deok-officer of the vessel,
from language diffioulties and obvious lack of judgment
on the part of the said junior deck-officer, Robert
Sweetser, in foroibly refusing admission upon the vessel
of the Yokohama Harbor police immigration officers at
the quarantine anohorage at the entrance to the port
bofore

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
before the completion of the Japanese quarantine
officers' examination. Certain of the immigration
officers so exoluded by him were not in uniform but
in plain-clothes, as has been the custom at this port
throughout a long series of years. The invariable
custom of permitting the immigration officers to board
an incoming passenger-carrying vessel at quarantine
before the quarantine officers have completed their
examination has, likewise, obtained at this port for
many years, based on an agreement of the port author-
ities and the steamship companies operating vessels
regularly to this port that an important saving in
time is thus accomplished as compared with immigration
inspection after vessels arrive at the pier.
unfortunate attitude assumed by the said junior deck-
offioer of the S/S "President Jefferson" remains un-
explained, in view of his having frequented Oriental
ports on American vessels for a period of more than
five years. His action, resulting in all the incon-
veniences to which the vessel was subsequently subjec-
ted, left our remonstrance supported by few equities,
in fact. The only complaint on our part was restricted
to the contention that the retaliation on the part of
the Yokohama Harbor police was carried to an extreme.
In consequence, the efforts of this office were direoted
(1) to as speedy release as possible of the vessel from
the restriotion of its usual and necessary activities
while in the harbor, and (2) authoritative assurance
that the Harbor police would be more considerate in
11ko

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
like ciroumstanoes hereafter.
It was realized, also, that the incident occurred
on Sunday, when the higher officials, including the
Chief of the Yokohama Harbor Police, the Director of
Police Affairs of Kanagawa Prefecture, the Harbor-
Master, and the Governor of Kanagawa Frefecture, were
not only not in their offices but were absent from
Yokohama. Otherwise, it is believed, the restrictions
on the vessel would have been released without delay,
as, in the course of my experience, the Japanese higher
authorities have invariably been most considerate in
any matter in which this office has evinced an interest.
My representations under date of February 7, l933
to the Governor of Kanagawa Prefecture, will be seen to
have been formulated with especial emphasis and from a
somewhat partisan standpoint with a view to correct the
biased information which had been supplied him by the
police authorities, to impress him with the possible,
though not probable, graver implications, and thereby
to induce him to issue authoritative orders to the
Yokohama Harbor police to prevent a recurrence, or
other inconsiderate treatment of American vessels. The
fact that with Japanese the Emperor is enveloped with a
peculiar sanctity, that the Army is his right hand and
the police auxiliary thereto, renders extremely diffi-
cult the obtaining of any conoessions from the authori-
ties which might in any way reflect adversely upon
Japanese police of any grade. That the police officers
involved were immigration officers enhanced this difri-
oulty.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
oulty.
It is definitely to be emphasized, that it is
the unanimous opinion of all conoerned, and my con-
viotion, based upon my long experience in this country
and my participation in this matter from its inception
to its conclusion, that no element whatever of political
animus, racial animosity, or discrimination against
American shipping interests, was involved in this
inoident. I should add that port episodes of equal
importanoe, while not of identical description, occur
not infrequently at this and other Japanese ports in
connection with vessels of other foreign nations and
of Japan itself as well. Local matters of varying
degrees of importanoe, requiring this office's inter-
cession with the local authorities, oc cur frequently
and are almost invariably adjusted with entire satis-
faction without resort to any negotiations in writing,
memorandum, or report.
It was considered, by the Ambassador and the
Consul General, as well as by myself, that this incident,
which received no unpleasant or controversial publicity
in the vernacular or the foreign press in this country,
should, particularly in view of the present international
political situation, be handled looally rather than to
prooeed through higher channels, with the possibility
of it developing into an exaggerated international
controversy wherein, as is apparent from the correspon-
dence hereto attached, the Amerioan equities were in
nowise

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
-6 -
nowise overwhelming. The result, it is believed, has
justified that view.
The negotiations in the matter will be seen to
have inoluded such oral representations by me to the
acting-chief of the Yokohama Harbor police as was pos-
sible under the ciroumstances; a letter by me under
date of February 5th, the day of the incident, addressed
to the Governor of this Prefecture, which, by reason
of the fact that the day was Sunday, that he was absent
from the city, and that his office was closed for the
day, was not delivered to him until the following day,
but a signed copy of said letter was by me personally
handed by/me forthwith to the acting-chief of the
Yokohama Harbor polioe on the morning of said February
5th; a letter identioal with my own, with an additional
statement below, signed by the Master of the S/S "Pres-
ident Jefferson", was submitted in the same manner; a
letter of the said junior deck-officer identical with
that of the Master, submitted in like manner; written
representations by the General Agent in Japan for the
American Mail Line to the Governor; the Governor's
wholly unsatisfaotory reply; my written representations
under date of February 7th to the Governor; my further
letter under date of February 24th to the Governor,
written in order to elicit a reply whioh would enable
me to report the satisfactory conolusion of the matter
to the Master of the S/S "President Jefferson" on
February 25th on his call at this port on his return
voyage

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
- 7 -
voyage to the United States; the receipt at 3 p.m.,
by messenger from the Governor, of his satisfactory
reply to my letter and representations; the delivery
of a copy of said letter, in translation, to the
Master of the vessel in person before his sailing on
said February 25th to enable him to complete his
report to the head-office of the American Mail Line
upon his arrival at San Francisco; report on that date
to the General Agent in Yokohama of the American Mail
Line; preparation of a report subsequently delivered
to the Embassy and to the Consulate General, Tokyo.
I trust that my conduct of the negotiations, the
settlement obtained, and this report may meet with the
Department's approval.
Respectfully yours,
Chas. L. De Vault,
American Consul.
Enclosures:
1. Copy of letter from American Consul,
Yokohama, to the Governor of Kanagawa
Prefecture, dated February 5, 1933.
2.
Copy of letter from the Master of the
S/S "President Jefferson" to the Gov-
ernor of Kanagawa Prefecture, dated
February 5, 1933.
3.
Copy of letter from junior deck-officer,
Robert Sweetser to the Governor of
Kanagawa Prefecture, dated February
5, 1933.
4.
Copy of letter of F. C. Thompson,
resident General Agent in Yokohama of
the American Mail Line, to the Governor
of Kenagawa Prefecture, dated February
5, 1933.
5. Copy of representations by the American
Consul

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8 -
Consul, Yokohama, to the Governor
of Kanagawa Prefecture, dated February
7, 1933.
6.
Copy of reply of the Governor of
Kanagawa Prefecture to the General
Agent of the American Mail Line,
Yokohama, dated February 9, 1933.
7.
Copy of letter of the American Consul,
Yokohama, to the Governor of Kanagawa
Prefecture, dated February 24, 1933.
8.
Copy of letter of the Governor of
Kanagawe Prefecture to the American
Consul, Yokohama, dated February 25,
1933.
9.
Copy of report of Master of the S/S
"President Jefferson" to the Super-
intendent of the Amerioan Mail Line,
Seattle, dated February 6, 1933.
10.
Copy of report of junior deok-officer
Robert Sweetser to the Master of the
S/S "President Jefferson", dated
February 6, 1933.
350
CLD/ho.

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
ENCLOSURE NO. 1
Yokohama, Japan,
February 5, 1933.
His Excellency
Sukenari Yokoyama,
Governor of Kanagawa-Ken,
Yokohama, Japan.
Excellency:
I desire to express to you, on behalf of the
Dollar Steamship Lines, regret that there should have
occurred any misunderstanding regarding the going on
board the S/S PRESIDENT JEFFERSON of the Japanese Im-
migration offioers this morning before the Japanese
Quarantine officers had completed their inspection.
The misunderstanding was entirely due to the Quarter-
Master of the vessel being unable to understand the
Japanese language and the fact that the Immigration
officers were not in uniform, wore no official badges,
and did not make it clear that they were in fact officers
of any kind. The said Immigration officers were sol-
icited by the ship's officers to come upon board at
once as soon as it was learned that they were Immigration
officers, but deolined to do so on account of the
previous misunderstanding. It is sincerely to be hoped
that no such inoident will ocour again.
Very truly yours,
Chas. L. De Vault,
A trus copy of
American Consul.
the signed prig-
inal. a

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
ENCLOSURE NO. 2
Yokohama, Japan,
February 5, 1933.
His Excellency
Sukenari Yokoyama,
Governor of Kanagawa-Ken,
Yokohama, Japan.
Excellency:
I desire to express to you, on behalf of the
Dollar Steamship Lines, regret that there should have
occurred any misunderstanding regarding the going on
board the S/S PRESIDENT JEFFERSON of the Japanese Im-
migration officers this morning before the Japanese
Quarantine officers had completed their inspection.
The misunderstanding was entirely due to the uarter-
Master of the vessel being unable to understand the
Japanese language and the fact that the Immigration
officers were not in uniform, wore no official badges,
and did not make it clear that they were in fact officers
of any kind. The said Immigration officers were sol-
icited by the ship's officers to come upon board at
once as soon as it was learned that they were Immigration
offioers, but deolined to do so on account of the
previous misunderstanding. It is sinoerely to be hoped
that no suoh incident will ocour again.
Very truly yours,
A. O. Lustie, Master.
There was no intention to interfere in any
way with the Japanese Immigration officers.
The ship's officers were only endeavoring to obey
the Japanese Quarantine laws and regulations.
A. O. Lustie, Master.
A true copy of
the signed prig-
inal.

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
ENCLOSURE NO. 3
Yokohama, Japan,
February 5, 1933.
His Excellency
Sukenari Yokoyama,
Governor of Kanagawa-Ken,
Yokohama, Japan.
Excellency:
I desire to express to you, on behalf of the
Dollar Steamship Lines, regret that there shoula have
occurred any misunderstanding regarding the going on
board the S/S PRESIDENT JEFFERSON of the Japanese Im-
migration officers this morning before the Japanese
Quarantine officers had completed their inspection.
The misunderstanding was entirely due to the uarter-
Master of the vessel being unable to understand the
Japanese language ana the fact that the Immigration
officers were not in uniform, wore no official badges,
and did not make it clear that they were in fact officers
of any kind. The said Immigration officers were sol-
icited by the ship's offioers to come upon board at
once as soon as it was learned that they were Immigration
officers, but declined to do so on account of the
previous misunderstanding. It is sincerely to be hoped
that no suoh incident will oocur again.
Very truly yours,
Robert Sweetser, Junior Deck-Officer.
There was no intention to interfere in any
way with the Japanese Immigration officers.
The ship's officers were only endeavoring to obey
the Japanese Quarantine laws and regulations.
Robert Sweetser, Junior Deck-Officer.
A true copy of
the signed grig-
inal. Aa

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.97)
ENCLOSURE NO. 4
6-15-32 10,000
COPY FROL: YOKOHAMA OFFICE
For
Office
Yokohama
Feb. 5
1935
Ris xcellency,
J. Yokoyama,
Covernor ofanagawa-en,
YOKOHAMA.
ir:
I have to brin to yer attention a vory
serious inciden t wl ich occured in connection wit. the
arrival of our S. . "Presi uent Jefferson" t is mornin.
Vessel was bourded by u rantine officials at uarantine
anchorage at 7:15 a.. hese uarantine officials were
in uniforn and were duly and courteously welcomed on
board by the Captain pe rsonally. These orficials were
followed up the can way by the Imi ration officials.
These la tter gentlemen wore no unifor s nor any marks
of ident ification. he uarter muster, believin it
his du ty to keep unauthorized persons orf the sh ip
until pratique was runted, nd not mowin o these
Immigrttion people were, refused them permission to
come aboard. a man from our office who v s in a luunch
a longsi de the ship immedi ately informe i sh in's officers
that these men were Immi rution officials tnd the ship's
offi cers iamediately re rette: theif misund erstandine
and asked the officials to come aboard. Instea: of
complyin, the officials returned to their office
ashore. Pratique was granted and the ship arrived
aloncside the pier 8: 43 a.., but of course, passengers
could not come ashore until the Inmiration people ad
finished with their aties. The worst th in about the
incident w:s that the Immi rution officials were so un-
reasonable as to prevent stevedere coolies from oin
on board and commencing the dischar e of carco. They
also prevented the Japanese Fuol Cil suppliers from
going on board. It was not until 1l: 45 A.!. after
several visits and the wri tin of letters by the Captain,
uartermaster and merican Consul, that Immiration
people permitted stevedore coolies and Fuel oil men to
go aboard and begin their work. At this time they also
hegan examining passports so passengers could come ashore.
The "Pres. Jefferson" arrived at Yokohama
two days behind schedule. The unreasonable attitude
and aoti on of the Immigration offic iels in keeping
stevedore coolies and Fuel Oil people from boarding
the ship until noon means that the vessel will sail
late from Kobe, miss the tide in Shanghai, resulting
in her being put another day behind sohedule. This means
a tremendous finanoial loss to our company, and is a
source of great inconvenience to all concerned, passengers,
consignees, shippers, and our company people alike.
We

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.92)
- 2 -
He he reby wish to lod, e a viccrous protest
aguinst t e nreasonable acti on of the l mierution
officiels this mo cmine. we wish your conf ir atin thut
their action was antirely unwarranted, und your  ssurance
that delays te our vesseis tarou h affeirs of t is kind
will not occur in this port again.
Yours respeetf.lly.
(signed)
F. C. P.OIISOH
General Agent
FCT: K
blind cc: Mr. . L. seVault, nericar consul, Yokohama
Mr. A. F. Haines, seattle
Executive Dept. Shai
Captain A. C. Lustie, "Fres. Jefferson"
A true copy of
the signed prig-
ir al. 

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
ENCLOSURE NO. 5
February 7, 1933.
His Excellency
Sukenari YOKOYAMA,
GOVERNOR OF KANAGAWA-KEN,
Yokohama.
Excellency:
I have the honor to further refer to the virtual
arrest, without any lawful or proper cause, reason,
or exouse therefor, of the American steamship PRESIDENT
JEFFERSON, and of officers, all passengers, and the
crew thereon, in this port, for a period of more than
three hours on the forenoon of February 5, 1933, by
Yokohama Harbor police under your jurisdiction, rep-
resentations concerning whioh were made by me on that
day, which was Sunday, orally by telephone and in person
to your office in your absence from the city.
1/. The signifioance and implications of the
incident, the large financial loss to the ship's owners,
the delay and inconvenience to passengers, the annoyance
of and interference with the ship's officers in the
performance of their important and urgent duties, compel
me to make to you express protest against the said un-
lawful and unwarrantable action of the said Yokohama
Harbor police.
2/. I have, also, especially here to protest
against the wholly unwarrantable and unlawful prevention,
by the said police by force and display of force, for
the

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
the period of more than three hours on said day of
the re-fueling of said vessel, of the unloading of
any of the cargo consigned to Yokohama, of the loading
of any cargo from Yokohama to other ports, the said
Harbor police authorities and officers then and there
well knowing that said vessel was already two days
behind schedule by reason of heavy wind and weather
and that in consequence its scheduled stay in the
port of Yokohama had been curtailed to the fewest
possible hours and that it was soheduled to sail at
4 p.m. on said day via Kobe to Shanghai there to
arrive at a specific time in order to save 24 hours
by taking advantage of the tide in entering Shanghai
port.
3/. It is to be specifically protested also that
for a considerable space of time on said day the Master
of said vessel, Captain A. O. Lustie, an American
citizen, was prevented by display of force by the said
police from going to the American Consulate, Yokohama,
to obtain certification of the ship's documents, or to
go ashore for the performance of any of his usual and
necessary duties as the Master of said vessel, although
he attempted to do so; that Mr. F. C. Thompson, an
American citizen, and resident General Agent for the
ship's owners, the American Mail Line, and well known
for years as such to the Yokohama Harbor police author-
ities, was for a time prevented from entering upon said
vessel for transaction of the shipowners' business or
oven to convey to the ship's said Master the demand of
the

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
the Chief of the Yokohama Harbor police that the
Master present himself at the Yokohama Harbor polioe
Office for examination and to make e pology to said
police; that Mr. Lawrence Neitman, an American citi-
zen, and resident American Mail Line Yokohama port-
captain and supervisor of cargo and stevedoring for
saia steamship Line and for said vessel and for years
past well known to the Yokohama Harbor police as such,
who had gone upon said vessel for the usual and
necessary conduct of the ship's business in the
unloading and loading of cargo, re-fueling, and the
like, was not only prevented from performing any of
his said urgent duties in serving said vessel but was
foroibly prevented from going about on the vessel and
from leaving the vessel to go ashore for any purpose,
and was by said police forcibly detained on board at
a point near the gang-plank for hours; that by reason
of the said unwarrantable treatment of the said Master,
the said General Agent, and the said port-captain of
said Line, they and each of them were prevented for
more than three hours from performing their respective
necessary, important, and urgent duties; and that by
the said unwarrantable action perpetrated and prolonged
for more than three hours by the said police in the
presence of the said ship's officers' subordinates and
employees American and foreign, including seven gangs
of Japanese stevedore coolies who were compelled to
stand by in 1dleness at the shipowners' expense, and
in the presence of the ship's passengers, shippers,
shippers'

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
shippers' agents, and with the traveling and shipping
public generally.
4/. It is to be protested also that the said
Master of the vessel was required, by show of force
and peremptory demand to go to the police station and
there be subjected to pointless arraignment and argu-
ment and irrelevant and offensive questioning by
police officers for several long periods in a room
packed with a crowd of uniformed police, plain-clothes
police, newspaper reporters, and newspaper camere-men
with flashlights who more than once photographed the
Master and the American Mail Line's said General Agent
in those surroundings as though to give the impression
that they were malefactors arraigned for judgment
before the uniformed seated police officer, who per-
sistently declined all oral explanations of the trivial
and momentary misunderstanding between a junior deck-
officer of said vessel and alleged police immigration
inspection officers when the vessel was at quarantine
anchorage (in my letter of February 5 and hereinafter
fully set out), but insisted and continued to insist
upon a written positive admission of guilt and wrong-
doing on the part of the Master personally and his
personal apology to the said police; that after a
complete oral explanation repeated several times by
the Master, the General Agent, and by myself as Amerioan
Consul, I prepared, signed and delivered to the police
chief a written explana tion cover ing every essential
in the form of a letter above referred to and which
was

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
was addressed to Your Excellency, a copy of which is
attached hereto; that my said letter was accepted by
the said police chief apparently as satisfactory, but
instead of releasing the Master and the vessel the
said police chief thereafter decided that a letter in
express apology was required of the Master; that, after
further consideration, he a nmounced that he would re-
lease the Master and vessel only if and when the
Master had signed a separate letter identical with the
letter prepared and signed by me; that the Master,
General Agent, and myself then proceeded to the ship
where such Jetter was so s igned by the Master and
delivered to the said police chief; thet instead of
then releasing the vessel, the said police chief
insisted that an identical separate letter be signed
by the said Junior Deck-Officer, which likewise was
by the officer promptly signed and delivered to the
said police chief; that instead of then releasing the
vessel, the said police chief demanded that certain
additions to their respective letters be made by the
Master and by the said junior-deck officer, which were
made and the letter so amended, copies of whi ch are
attached hereto, and were delivered to the said police
chief; that, instead of then releasing the vessel, the
said police ohief deolared the letters unsatisfactory,
whereupon I was under the urgent necessity of telephoning
from the ship to Your Excellency's office requesting
the vessel's release; as the day was Sunday and no one
was found at your office, I telephoned to your residence
and

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
and found that you were out of the City; that I then
telephoned Mr. Koibuchi, your Secretary, and stated
to him the position, whereupon he decided to come a
very long distance from his home to Your Excellency's
office there to confer with me as to the action
required; that the vessel was not released nor allowed
to proceed to fueling, unloading of cargo, or any
other activity, nor was any immigration inspection of
passengers begun, or anyone allowed to leave the vessel,
until my telephone communication to Mr. koibuchi was
concluded; that I met him an hour later at Your Excel-
lency's office and was able to report to hin that the
vessel had been released at ll:45 o'clock, more than
three hours after the vessel had been berthed at the
pier, more than four hours after the quarantine officers
had finished their examination, and more than two hours
after I had begun my intercession.
5/. Mention is here to be made by me of the
precise facts, which may readily be confirmed by Your
Excellency, regarding the circumstance which furnished
the said police with the trivial excuse on which was
based their action which produced the serious effects
above noted.
The American Mail Line has for years maintained
offioes in Yokohama; the said General Agent, Mr. F. C.
Thompson, has served continuously in that capacity in
the Yokohama offices of the Line for many years last
past; the said American Mail Line steamship PRESIDENT
JEFFERSON has regularly called at the port of Yokohama
for

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
not less than eight years making ten or more calls
at this port each year, the said present voyage being
the vessel's 8oth regular scheduled call at this port;
that said Captain A. 0. Lustie has as Master brought
the said steamship and other ships of the American
Mail Line into this port regularly about once a month
for seven years or more; that in consequence of the
foregoing, the American Mail Line Company is well
known to the official, shipping, and harbor authorities
of Yokohama as an established institution in Yokohama,
responsible and solvent, to which recourse could
readily be had and redress obtained for any infringe-
ment of the l ws, regulations, or customs of this port
or this country without proceeding to unusual, unlawful
and forcible summary action in case of any infringement
whether real or imaginary; that Captain A. O. Lustie
is likewise well known to the official, shipping, and
harbor authorities of Yokohama as a particularly capable
and always courteous ship's Master with a scrupulous
regard for all laws and regulations with which he has
to do.
That the said vessel was at Quarantine anchorage
at daybreak on said February 5th, on its 40th western
voyage to this port, en route to Manila, via Kobe and
Shanghai; that the Yokohama Harbor police authorities
well knew that the vessel was already two days behind
sehodule and that its departure from the port of Yoko-
hama was definitely soheduled for 4 p.m. on said day in
order that the vessel might save 24 hours by taking
advantage

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8 -
advantage of high tide at the entranoe to the port of
Shanghai by so timing its departure from Yokohama;
That the Jepanese Quarantine officers came on
board as usual at 7 a.m. and were courteously greeted
in person by Captain Lustie, as is his invariable
custom at Yokohama; that junior deck-officer Robert
Sweetser, who has been for five years in trans-Pacific
service but is not femilier with the Japanese language,
was the ship's officer stat ioned at the ship's accomo-
dation-ladder to prevent the entry on the vessel before
completion of the Quarantine Examination of anyone
other than the Quarantine officers, and by courtesy
of the Quarantine officers and the Master of the vessel
of the Japanese police immigration officers also
(although it is understood that at the ports of other
maritime countries immigration officers are not
oustomarily admitted upon the vessel until after com-
pletion of the Quarantine examination). That about
20 minutes after the going upon the vessel of the
Quarantine officers and before their examine tion had
been completed a launch came alongside and a group of
six men began to ascend the said accomodation ladder
in single file; that the first two men were in police
uniform and were unhesitatingly allowed by the said
junior deck-officer, as a matter of official courtesy,
to go aboard; that three other men, were not in uniform
nor did they exhibit any badge, insignia, or document
to indioate that they were police or immigration or
other officers of any kind, wherefore the said junior
deck-officer, believing them to be in fact newspaper
reporters

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
- 9 -
reporters or other non-official persons, informed
them that they could not go aboard until completion
of the Quarantine examina tion, the said deck-officer
repeating to them the word "uarantine" several times
and endeavoring to have them understand the reason for
his refusal, to which no intelligible reply was made
by the three men or any of them although the Yokohama
Japanese immigration inspection officers are understood
to speak and to understand English, and although one
of the said three men before leaving the ladder called
out to the said deck-officer in clear and precise
English, "What is your name?", to which the said deck-
officer replied "Robert Sweetser,", the same man then
asked, "What rank are you?" to which the deck-officer
replied, "I am junior deck-officer", that the said
three men continued to crowd forward as if to force
their way upon the vessel, and Officer Sweetser extended
his two arms and took hold of the ropes on each side
of the ladder thereby barring the said three men's
further advance, al though he beokoned to a uniformed
police officer who appeared behind the said three men
and asked him to come aboard; that the said three men
and the officer in uniform turned about without attempt
at explanation and stepped from the ship's ladder upon
the Quarantine officer's launch, whereupon port-captain
Neitman called out from the American Mail Line launch to
Officer Sweetser that the men were immigration officers
and Officer Sweetser immedia tely called out to them and
by words and gestures sought to induce them to come on
board

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.98)
- 10 -
board the vessel; that Mr. Noitman, who was in the
launch which, as well as the Quarantine officers'
launch, was recuired to be crossed by the four men
before reaching their own launch, then and there by
words in English and Japanese and by gestures sought
to induce them to go upon the vessel, - in spite of
all of which they made no reply but boarding their
launch put rapidly off to shore a mile or more distant;
that at 7:37 a.m. the Quarantine officers had completed
their examination, and given the ship "pratique" or
release. Mr. Neitman having explained to Capta in
Lustie that he believed the men who had so departed to
be immigration inspection officers and that they had
returned ashore in anger and would not come aboard the
vessel at Quarantine anchorage, the Master caused the
anchor to be raised and the vessel proceeded to its
berth at the Customs pier where it arrived et 8:45 a.m.,
one gang of stevedores having been e .owed to remove
the mail, but all other activities beine by the said
police arrested for a period of three he rs in the
manner and form and with the damaging and injurious
effects hereinbefore related.
6/. I regret to have to add that it would appear
that various implications readily to be inferred by
misohievous persons, from the incident, and from the
conduct of the said police in the matter, are of greater
signifioance than even the matter of which I have
herein made complaint: for example, I am told that it
1s

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
- 11 -
is to be inferred that the said polioe were actuated
by a spirit of anti-foreignism, again that they were
impelled by racial and political animus against the
United States of America, and again that their purpose
was to demonstrate in the interest of Japanese shipping
that the carriage of passengers or cargo by a foreign
vessel to a Japanese port is unwise and unsafe and may
be expected to res ult in delay and annoyance or molesta-
tion of passengers and cargo. I am happy to state here
to Your Excellency that after eight years' residence
in Japan I do not subscribe to belief in any such
implications, but I do realize that interference and
molestation of an American vessel, as in this case, is
extremely unfortunate and that I trust Your Excellency
to take appropriate steps and to issue to the Yokohama
Harbor Police such orders as may be necessary to prevent
the recurrence of any such incident and to enable me to
assure American steamship lines having vessels voyaging
to or calling at the port of Yokohame that they may
expect invariably courteous and just treatment at the
hands of Japanese officials.
With renewed assurances of my sincere esteem and
regard, I am
Very respectfully yours,
Chas. L. De Vault,
Amerioan Consul.
A true copy of
the signed grig-
inal.

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.85)
ENCLOSURE NO. 6
C O I Y
Secretary. Foreien Dert.
Letter . 271
Pebruary 1e.
Hr. F. U. Phompson,
Manaier,
Dollar Line.
I am in receipt of your letter  retc dated
thust., coneeri te nei r  refusin urbor
liet ofricith
a.e.
I uee to state ut se letter  l
of r conition or the feet, d we rer
roceive t rotest  I res utro.
you paore ut etin r ereurre ce
osuch matters.nd ut saett
Upon uri ivel f the ti rer.  efferson putsiae the
harbor u lot, t (?) inst.
ur
wenel
1for
the purpose or per or ia ofeiclel wor of exe ine
passuorts,ete.,
ourpur
vescel.t t ito on siplauter
prevenr
eeoues
ports ee .oreort e tve of
your Company informee the wutohman t.t  mere offi-
cials tnd t ut t shole o t itte on boer. In
spite of this the  ttehun statine thet it wt the
Captain'e strict prler. never listened t t ur yeople.
ca by rorce pushed uc. one r e orficialnTt does
not meun that the t pop of ofrielals  uhabl to urt
ecuralcss  thtetlo ert the f
ficials on vessels outsi e o  roor is r con-
venionce o steunsh com ics ne  usengers, and it
was unnecessary for the lolice officials to board when
they were refused, us they consi  ered it proper to
examine at the pier, therefore they returhed to the
Harbor Police.
2. As stated above, the officials are comine to wori early
in the mornine for their wor: simply for the convenience
of ships and passengers.
This is not the first call of the vessel, and the Cap-
tain is aoquainted with the regulations, und he has never
in the past shown suoh an impolite demeaner, and we are
unable to imagine why he too! an attituue like that on
that day.
3. As for the custume of the passports examiners, they were
the regular clothes which were similar ones that have
been worn since the opening of passport examination
system

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
system. Police ofricials posses their own pooket books,
which prove themselves to be policemen, and if required,
they are ready to show them. Moreover the launch in
which they arrived bore the ensign of the Police Station,
and inasmuch as one of your reprosentatives explained
that they were officials, the Captain and the watohman
must have recognized the offioials.
4. Your letter states that after the watchman refused the
boarding of officials, higher officers of the vessel
regretted the misunderstanding and applied for the
boarding of the Immigration Offioials, however, in
fact, the police officials did not receive such a re-
quest at that moment. Therefore tiere is no question
of the officials complyint with the request or not, and
I greatly regret that rightful worh of Passport
Examiners was prevented.
5. Your letter further mentions stevedorine work, however,
this is a reat misunderstandint, because it is the
rule that Harbor Police examine licences of all steve-
dore coolies for the safety of stevedoring work in
accordance with the law. On that day the exaninetion
of licences was done by other officials than passport
examiners. Therefore this is quite different matter
from the above mentioned incident.
6. As lone as the crew of the above vessel continues in
such an impolite attitude, I am unable to warrant the
non-recurrence of such matters, and if the boardin of
the examiners outsiue the harbor is not desirable, the
examination will hereafter be held after moorin, at the
pier.
Kindly advise the captain concerned to that effect.
J. Yokoyama
Governor of Kanagawa-ken.
/I
A true copy of
the signed orig-
inal. a

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
no.
AMERICAN CONSULAR SERVICE
American Consulate, Yokohama, Japan, February 24, 1933.
His Excellenoy
Sukenar1 YOKOYAMA,
Governor of Kanagawa-Ken,
Yokohama.
Excellenoy:
I have the honor further to refer to the deten-
tion and restriction, following a misunderstanding
rogarding the going on board of Immigration police
offioials for passport examination, of the usual
activities of the American steamship "Tresident
Jefferson", of the American Mail Line, in the hurbor
of the port of Yokohama, on February 5, 1933, by the
Yokohama Harbor police authorities concernin which
representations have been made by this Consulate,
and to express my appreciation of the fact that, in
consequence of such represent.tions end of Your
Excellenoy's conscientious und detailed investigation
of all the facts and ciroumstances in th:t connection,
you have arrived definitely at the conclusion thut the
affair was wholly due to a mutual misunderstandin on
the part of the Yokohama Harbor authorities and of the
officers of the said steamship, due primarily to
language diffioulties.
It is understood, also, that, in consequence of
the foregoing, directions sall by me be given to the
Amerioan interests and officers concerned and tit
Your Excellency has issued orders to te an ropriate
authorities and officers under your jurisdiction,
whoreby all the usual courtesies and amenities shall
sorupulously be observed and any recurrence of such
incident or of anything of a similar nature shall be
effeotively prevented.
I understand, also, that I am authorized to
assure the American interests concerned that in the
said incident of February 5 there was no intention on
the part of the Japanese authorities or officers to
hamper or restrict the lawful usual and oustomary
operations of American vessels in and about the port
and harbor of Tokohama, and that no disorimination
of

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.98)
- 8 -
of any kind was intended against American vessels
ontering or leaving this port.
I shall appreoiate the confirmation of the
foregoing in writing by Your Exoellenoy, in order
that all possibility of misunderstanding may be
preoluded.
With renewed assurances of my highest esteem
and regard, I ramain
Very truly yours,
Chas. L. De Vault,
American Consul.
A true copy of
the signed, grig-
inal.

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.99)
ENCLOSURE NO. 8
TRANSLATION:
GK
February 25, 1933.
The Honorable
Charles L. De Vault,
American Consul,
Yokohama.
Sir:
I have the honor to acknowledge the reoeipt of
your letter of the 24th instant, regarding the incident
of the American steamer PRESIDENT JEFFERSON which
entered this port on the 5th instant, and having noted
the contents of your letter express my concurrence
therewith.
I deeply regret the whole occurence, which arose
out of a mutual misunderstanding in oonneotion with
passport inspeotion on that date.
I shall most oarefully instruct the officials
concerned to prevent any recurrence of this nature
in the future, and I would respectfully request that
you so inform your ship's officers.
Thus replying, I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your obedient servant,
SUKENARI YOKOYAMA,
Governor of Kanagawa Ken.
A true copy of
the signed orig-
inal. H0

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
as President Jefferson,
At Sea,
February 6, 1933.
Captain Erik G. Froberg,
Superintendent, American Mail Line
Seattle, Washington
PORT REPORT - YOKOHAMA - VOYAGE NO. 4O WEST
Dear Sir:
Japanese Quarantine Dootors came aboard at 7:00 A.M.
and at 7:37 A.M. disembarked after having given the ship
Pratique.
At about 7:15 or 7:20 A.M., while Japanese uarantine
Dootors were oonduoting their usual wuarantine Examination
of passengers and crew, four Japanese I migration Officers,
dressed in oivilian clothes started up the Accommodation
Ladder. The four Japanese Offioers were proceeded by
two uniformed Japanese Harbor Police. The uniformed
Harbor Polioe were permitted to come aboard as a matter
of course and in acoordance wi th the usual procedure at
Yokohama. Junior Deok Officer, Robert Sweetser who was
on duty at the Accommodati on Ladder explained to the four
Japanese in civilian olothes that the ship was undergoing
inspeotion by Japanese uarantine Officials and that they
would have to wait till the ship was granted Pratique.
The four Japanese in civilian olothes did not explain
to the Junior Officer who they were and attempted to pass
up the Ladder and come aboard. There was another uniformed
Japanese Harbor Polioeman on the Aocommodation Ladder
below the four Japanese in civilian olothes. Junior
Offioer Sweetser beckoned to the Japanese uniformed
policeman to come aboard, whereupon the polioeman attempted
to pass the four Japanese in civilian olothes objeoted
stronuously to the uniformed Japanese policeman being
permitted to pass them on the Ladder and come aboard and
forewith attempted to push their way past the Junior
Officer. Junior Officer Sweetser extended his two arms
and took hold of the man ropes of the Accommodation
Ladder after having let the uniformed policeman aboard.
During the whole of this time the Junior Officer had no
idea who the Japanese in civilian clothes were as they
wore no badges and made no effort to identify themselves
and at no time explained to the Junior Officer that they
were Immigration Officers.
Finally on Junior Officer Sweetser's declining to
permit the four Japanese in civilian clothes to come
aboard they turned about and went on down the Ladder
taking the uniformed policeman with them. At just
about this time Mr. Nietman, who was down aboard the
Company's launoh lying outside of the uarantine launch
shouted to Mr. Sweetser that the four Japanese gentlemen
in civilian olothes were Immigration Officers and should
be pemitted to come aboard. On hearing this from Mr.
Nietman, the Junior Ofricer at once told the four Japanese
gentlemen to come aboard, but they deolined and continued
on their way dowm the ladder.
Mr.

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
Mr. Nietman made m effort to explain to them as
they crossed the Quarantine launch and the Company's
launch to their own launch which was lying outside the
Company's launoh that the Junior Ofricer had not known
who they were and that it would be all right for them
to go aboard. The four Japanese Immigration Officers,
however, paid no attention to Mr. Nietman, but went on
aboard their own launoh and returmed ashore. The matter
was brought to my attention by Junior Officer Sweetser
immediately on his learning from Mr. Nietman who the four
Japanese gentlemen were, but it wes too late for me to
take any aotion at this time as the four I migration
Officers had started ashore with their launch.
As soon as the Japanese uarant ine Doctors finished
their examination and gave the ship Pratique, Mr. Nietman
came aboard and at once advised me that the Japanese
Immigration Officers might make trouble for the ship in
vlew of their having been held up on the Acconmodation
Ladder.
Hove up anchor at 7:37 A.M., and proceeded to a berth
alongside the New Customs Pier. Ship wus all secure
alongside at 8:45 A.M. One gang of stevedores oame
aboard and commenoed riggine gear and discharging mail.
No other stevedores were pemitted to come aboard,
however, and no one was permitted to go ashore, the
Harbour Police havin issued instructions to holu the
hip up until some explanation wes made about the holding
up of the four Imnigration Officers out in the larbour.
Mr. Thompson, our General Agent, was not permitted to
come aboard and I made an attempt to o ashore to go up
to the Harbour Ofrice with him, but I was not permitted
to go ashore although at this time Mr. Thompson had been
instructed by the Chief of the Harbor Police to ask me
to oome up to the Harbor Office and explain the mis under-
standing.
After some considerable delay and the sending of
Harbour Police messen gers back and forth between ship
and Harbour Office I was permitted to go ashore and I
at once accompanied Mr. Thompson to the Harbour office.
No notice whatsoever was taken of Mr. Thompson or
myself upon our arrival at the Harbour Office and after
waiting about fifteen minutes, it being at this time
about 9:15 A.M., I left the Harbour Office ana went
to the office of the Amerioan Consul General and explained
the situation to Mr. De Vault, American Consul General
for the Port of Yokohame. Mr. De Vault at onoe accompanied
me to the Harbour Offioe and the Chief of the Harbour
Police explained to Mr. De Vault that they required a
written explanation in connection with the holding up of
the four Immigration Officers out in the bay. Mr. Do
Vault assured the Chief of the Harbour Police he would
write such a letter of explanation at once and requested
that the ship be permitted to disoharge cargo and that
the passengers not be further held up. The Chief
however

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
however said he wanted his letter first before he would
release the ship, whereupon Mr. De Vault and I returned
to the Consulate and prepared such a letter.
On retuming to the Harbor offioe with the Consul
General's letter the Chief of Harbor Police wes still
unsatisfied and requested that I sit down and write out
a written appoligy, whioh of course I declined to do.
I explained that I would write a letter of explanution
similar to the one written by Mr. De Vault. About this
time the Chief decided that he al so wan ted a letter
signed by Mr. Sweetser.
By this time the Consul General was be inning to
lose patience with the Harbor Police and explained to
them that if the matter were not quickly adjusted he would
have no reoourse but to take the matter up with the
Governor. After some disoussion the Harbour Police
docided that if Mr. Sweetser and I would sign copies of
the letter written by Mr. De Vault the would release the
hip. Copies were quickly prepared in our American Mail
Line Office and Mr. Sweetser and I signed them. The
Harbour Police again however, changed their minds and
docided theywan ted a different kind of a letter, whereupon
Mr. De Vault got in touch with the Governor by telephone,
whereupon the s'ip was released immediately, almost
before the Consul General had finished his telephone
conversation with the governor, probably wi thout any
action having been taken by the Governor.
There is attach ed herewi th, to this letter a report
from Mr. Robert Sweetser explaning his part of the
misunderstanding and there is lso attached herewith a
copy of the Consul General's letter which was s igned by
Mr. Sweetser and myself.
Shortly before sailing from Yokohama I was advised
by the Consul Gene ral that he had taken the matter up with
the higher auth orities and had requested an explanation
for the high handed action on the part of the Yokohama
Harbor Police and that he would further request assurance
that there would be no further interference of that sort
by the Harbor Polioe for the American Flag Ships at the
Port of Yokohama.
Stevedores were finally permitted to come aboard at
11:45 A.M., ship having been held up just three hours by
the Yokohama Harbor Police.
Commenoed disoharging the three long hatohes with
two gangs working out of each hatoh, but due to the many
separate marks of copper in No. 7 and No. 8 hatohes and
further due to the fact that each lot had to go in a
different lighter, discharging proceeded very slowly
out of No. 7 and No. 8 hatoh es. Attached to this letter
please find Chief Officer's report on cargo discharged
and cargo loaded at the Port of Yokohama, voyage No. 40
West, also two eopies of our mail report for Yokohama,
voyage No. 40 West.
Exoepting

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
Exoepting for the delay to the ship by the Yokohama
Harbour Polioe, stay at Yokohama was uneventful, good
weather prevaiiing.
No repairs of any sort were had at the Port of
Yokohama, voyage No. 40 West.
Rooeived at Yokohama 60l9 barrels of fuel o1l, and
620 tons of fresh water.
Two First Class, no Special Class and five Third
Class passengers disembarked and three First Class, two
Speciai Class and twelve Thrid Class passengers embarked
leaving us with thirteen in the First Class, twenty in
the Special Class and thirty nine passengers in the
Third Class on departure from Yokohama, westbound.
Finimhed disoharging at 8:45 P.M. and at 9:00 P...
let go lines and proceeded out of Yokohama Harbour enroute
for Kobe, two day and three hours behind sohedule.
Yours very truly,
(signed)
A.O. Lustie,
Commander, S.S. President Jefferson
co Mr F C Thompson - Yokohama
nol Chief Officer's report on cargo, Yokohama, Voy 40 W
2 copies of mail report, Yokohama, Voyage 40 W
Junior Officer, Robert Sweetser's report
Copy of Consul General's letter
A true copy of
the signed prig-
inal.

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.98)
ENCLOSURE MO. 10
s8 President Jefferson
At Sea,
Fobruary 6, 1933.
Captain A. 0. Lustie,
Commander, SS President Jefferson
Dear Sir:
On the morning of February 5th, while the 3S
President Jefferson lay at anchor in Yokohama Harbour ,
awaiting the gran ting of Pratique from the Japanese
Health Authorities, I was stationed at the Vessel's
Accommodation Ladder. My duties at that station, in
accordance with the Japanese uarantine Regulations, were
to prevent any person or persons, not representing the
Health Authori ties, Immigration Authorities, Cus toms
Offioers, or Harbour Police, from boarding the Vessel
until the Vessel was given a olean Bill of ealth by
the Japanese Health Authorities.
Approximately twenty minutes after the ealth
Authorities had boarded the Vessel, a launch came along-
ide and a group of six men started to ascend the Accommo-
dation Ladder in single file. The first two men, in
uniforms of the Japanese Covernment, I allowed aboard
without hesitation. The others were in muftie, and
displayed no badges nor insignia by which they could have
been identified. I questioned them as to their business.
Their reply was unintelligible, and they offered no cards
or other means of identification. I shook my head in
tho negative manner, and repeated the word "uarantine"
several times.
I may state here that I have been in Trans-Paci fic
Service over a period of five years, and am familiar
with most of the Oriental versions of the English
language. In this case I was unable to distinguish any
words that may have been answers to my inquiries.
After being adamant in my position for several
minutes, I glanced up and saw another man, in the uniform
of the Harbor Police, behind those in civilian clothes.
I beckoned to him and endeavored to make way for him to
come aboard. The foremost man, after glancing back and
seeing the Harbour Policeman making an effort to pass
him, jerked my arm down fiolently. I warned him gainst
further physicial action. After perhaps another minute of
useless parleying, the man in ci vilian clothes furthest
down the ladder, mhom heretofore had said nothing, asked
me my name in olear, precise English. I told hiu. He
asked my rank, and I again replied. Beofre I had an
opportunity to inquire of hin the informa tion I sought,
he spoke in Japanese to the others, and the five of them,
inoluding the Harbour Polioeman, left the Accommodation
Ladder.
As they were stopping from the lower platform,
Mr. Nietman the Company's Agent for the Port of Yokohama,
who was in a launch alongside the Health Authorities
laumsh, shouted to me that these men were Immigration
officers.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
offieers. I ran down the ladder and he, in turn, orossed
to the Dootor's launeh. In order to board their own
launah, the Immigration Ofrioers had to cross the Dootor's
launoh and the Company's launoh. During this time Mr.
Nietman strove to oorreot the misunderstanding, but to
no arail. The ne1ther halted nor listened, boarded
their own launoh, oast off, and left the Vessel's side.
Respeotfully,
(signed)
Robert Sweetser
Robert Sweetser,
Junior Deck Officer
A true cop of
the signed orig-
inal.

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.94)
April 12 1983
no.
Charles L. De Vault, Esquire,
American Consul,
Yokohama, Japan.
Sir:
With referenoe to your despatoh No. 132 of February
28, 1933, on the subjeot "Detention of Amerioan Mail
894.55/3
Line S/s 'President Jefferson' in Yokohama harbor by
Yokohama Harbor Police", the Department is gratified to
note that the inoident was ad justed in a mutually satis-
faotory manner and without publicity.
Very truly yours,
For the 3eeretary of State:
Williaw Phillipa
894.55/3
FE
FA
FE:U0:CLS
Hesw
4-5-33.
A14 1933
H
Apr.7,1958
Atrue
the sigt
orig-
6

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.89)
HOV 6-1934
LE
Required
4.A
(Requested in Department's memorandum instruction on
June 1, 1934 (File No. 800.55/15a).
DIVISION OF
NOV11934
OgP.. CF STATEn
COUNIATIONS
DRS
IVISION OF
DEPARTMENT OFT
DEC 3 1934
E
894.55/
R
DIVISION OF
00
WESTERN FUROPEAN AFFAIRS
ong of twheeh wnel be serd
NO.
byVs lai6Zabor. Vi
wetrab..
TREND OF MIGRATORY MOVEMENTS - JAPAN
1934
EA
2'612t
NJ
Exccecur
894.5
December 12 1934
Prepared by:
mallion
J. M. Allison
1la.5594
FAR EASTEPN AFFAIRS
merican Vice Consul.
42.5594
NOV 23 1134
Ootober 19, 1934.
Date of Completion:
Ootober 20, 1934.
Date of Mailing:
pproved by:
H
Arthur Garrels,
American Consul General.
DEC 12 1934
FILED

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pages
Introduotion
Historioal Baokground
1 -7
Number of Japanese Going Abroad Annually
Present Position of Emigration
9 - 11
Japanese Emigration to Brazil
11 - 17
Emigration to Other South American Countries 17 - 18
Emigration to Asia
Mano hukuo
19 - 22
Emigration to the Philippine Islands
22 - 23
Immigration into Japan
23 - 25
Internal Migration and Colonial Settlement
25
-28
Restrictive Legislation; Immigrant and
Non-Immigrant
28-29
Emigration to America
29
-31
Conolusion
31 - 33
Sources of Information
34
Appendix
Statistical Tables

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
Introduction
Prior to the oponing of Japan to foreign interoourse
by Commodore Perry in 1853 there had been no emigration
or immigration for over two hundred years. The first emi-
grants to leave Japan left the country in l869 for Hawai1
but the venture was a failure and there was no further emi-
gration until l885 when emigrants began to go to Hawai1
again under Government contract. By 1894 almost 30,000
workers had emigrated and the Government turned over the
reoruiting and plaoing of emigrants in Hawaii to private
companies, though still under striot Government supervision.
After lgoo the stream of emigration began to flow towards
oontinental United States and in the five years l90l-05 an
average of over 5,Ooo Japanese were admitted annually. By
19lo the number of Japanese settlers on the Pacific Coast
of the United States had reaohed a total of 9l,Ooo. This
continued influx of Japanese began to arouse hostility and
in l9o7 President Roosevelt negotiated the "Gentlemen's
Agreement" by whioh Japan agreed to stop the emigration of
laboring olasses to the United States by withholding pass-
ports. Wives and children were still allowed to enter, how-
over, and agitation for the complete exclusion of Japanese
continued. In 1924 the Immigration Act was passed by which
all Japanese except certain striotly defined classes of
merohants, students, ministers and temporary visitors were
prohibited entry into the United States.
In the meantime Japanese workers had begun to emigrate
to Canada and Australia but soon found themselves barred by
various types of restrictive legislation. After l9o7 the
Japanese Government adopted a polioy of limiting emigration
by issuing passports only to emigrants qualified for the
type of work they were to take up and only after there was
some assurance that the emigrants would be welcome in the
country to whioh they were going. After 1907 Japanese emi-
gration was direoted mainly to South America and such success
was had that the restrictive policy of the government grad-
ually gave way to one of definite encouragement. Brazil was
the target of most of the emigration and by l9l3 there were
over 20,000 Japanese there. In 1920 the government policy
was completely changed and in l92l a subsidy was given to the
Overseas Development Company for use in popularizing emigra-
tion and in eduoating future emigrants.  In l927 the Overseas
Emigration Sooieties Aot was passed which provided for govern-
ment assistanoe to be given to cooperative sooieties for
the purpose of purchasing lands in foreign countries and
assisting prospeotive emigrants.
Prior to l9oo statistios did not differentiate between
emigrants and non-emigrants. The largest number of emigrants
for a ten-year period was 19l0-1920 when 155,000 persons were
given emigration permits. In the years 1930-1933 there was an
average of almost 20,000 emigrants left the country annually,
the majority of whom went to Brazil. The total emigration
since the restrictions on foreign travel were removed in l868
inoluding non-emigrants up to 1900, totaled 715,920 at the
ond of 1932. This is only slightly more than two-thirds of
the annual inorease of population in recent years. During
1934 it is estimated that approximately 24,000 Japanese
will emigrate to Brazil alone, and that the total emigra-
tion will approaoh the 30,00o mark. The fut ure prospeot
is not good, due to the passing of anti-immigration
measures in Brazil and Peru and the possibility of similar
Laws

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
lawe going inte effeet in the Philippines and the
Waen the number of Japanese returning from abroad
annually is compared with the number emigrating we find
that the exoess of those departing over those returning
during the 13 years from 1921 to 1933 1s only 14,229 or
slightly more than 1,000 a year on the average. This 1s
less than the net inorease in population by birth for a
single day.
▲t the end of 1932 there was a total of 825,100 Jap-
anese living abroad. Or this number over 42% were in Asia
while North Amerioa and Hawaii accounted for 32% addition-
al. l9% of the Japanese living abroad are in South America
and it is in this part of the world that the most rapid in-
orease in Japanese population has taken place. The number
of Japanese living in South America jumped from 7t% of the
total number living abroad in 1920 to slightly more than19%
of the total in 1932. At the same time the Japanese popu-
lation in Asia had suffered both a numerical and a peroent-
age doorease, from 43.58% in 1920 to 42 78% in 1932. In
oontinental United States there has been both a numerioal
and peroentage deorease, from 125,285 or 23% in 1920 to
102,895 or 12% in 1932. In Hawa11 the percentage has de-
oreased from 20 to 17.8% but the numbers have inoreased from
108,109 1n 1920 to 146,764 1n 1932. The above figure8 in-
olude not only Japanese who have emigrated but also those
who have been born abroad. On December 31,1932 there were
26,885 foreigners res1dent in Japan of whom 17,918 or 66.3%
were Chinese. Of western nations the Uni ted States leads
with 2,015 while Great Britain is next with 1,969. The
only 1mmigration problem Japan has is the influx of Korean
laborers, but this is a serious one. Since the annexation
of Korea in l9lo official statistics have not been kept, but
police estimates and estimates made by local newspapers give
the total number of Koreans entering Japan from 19l7 to 1929
as 1,186,310 while those returning to Korea numbered 847,777
leaving in Japan 338,533 or an average annual net increase of
86,O41 whioh is larger than the total annual average emigra-
tion during the same period.
Imperial Ordinanoe Number 352 of July 28, 1899 restric-
ted the entrance of alien laborers into Japan and it is
still in foroe. This ordinance with supplementary ordinances
in rogard to its administration are the only official acts
restrictive of immigration but they have feotually kept out
the ooolie labor from China. Ordinance No. 1 of January 24,
1918 relates to the admission of non-immigrants and provides
that the oompetent officials may keep out certain classes of
people believed to be a danger to public health or safety or
liable to become a publio oharge. After 1924 immigration of
Japanese into the United States ceased. Since then the only
persons of the immigrant olass entering America from Japan
are returning aliens, students, teachers, and ministers. The
majority getting visas each year are returning aliens.
The oentral faot about Japanese emigration is that it
1 not an emigration of individuals but is a government con-
trolled and inspired emigration. In the past the Japanese
Government has only direoted Japanese emigration towards lands
known to be favorable to it. Industrialization has been re-
lied on to relieve population pressure. In the face of in-
oreasing restrictions en Japanese exports as well as on Jap-
anese emigratien, the question will sooner or later arise,
san Japan continue to support her inoreasing numbers by in-
olution is to be reaohed.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
Historioal Background.
In 1636 the third Shogun, Tokugawa Iyemitsu,
issued a deoree forbidding Japanese to leave the
country or to have intercourse with foreigners. The
deoree prohibited also the building of ships of more
than fifty tons and the entry of foreign vessels into
Japanese ports. Traveling within Japan itself was
restrioted. For more than two hundred years, with
but rare exceptions, the Japanese as a nation lived
in a state of complete international isolation until
the arrival in 1853 of Commodore Perry with his pro-
posal to initiate Japanese-American commerce.
The problem of emigration therefore does not arise
until after the Meiji restoration of 1867-68. In 1869
the first party of emigrants, numbering 153 workers,
left for the plantations of Hawaii under contract be-
811a.5594
tween Hawaii and the Japanese Government which had 253
years previously stopped all emigration from Japan.
This first experiment in emigration was not a success.
Within a year forty of the emigrants, discouraged by
language diffioulties and foreign customs, returned to
Japan. No further attempt was made to send groups
abroad until 1885 when, following the visit of King
Kalakaua of Hawaii to Japan and the conclusion of
treaties of travel, emigration, and navigation between
Japan and Hawaii, 95l migrants sailed for the Hawaiian
Islands. Between 1885 and 1894 almost 30,000 workers
migrated to the islanés under Government contract. In
1894

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
1894 the Government turned over the recruiting and
placing of emigrants in Hawaii to private companies.
When in 1898 Hawuii becume a Territery of the United
States and contract labor was forbidden, the emigra-
tion companies, in an effort to save their proritable
business, began sending laborers directly to the main-
lana of the United States. For the five years loy5-
1899 inclusive, the average number of Japanese admitted
annually into continental United States, exclusive of
those coming from the Hawaiian Islands, was 1,182. In
1900 the number admitted was 12, 626, and for the five
years 1901 to 1905 an average of over 5,000 Japanese
were admitted annually.
In the meantime Japan had enaoted an Emigrants'
Protection Act in 1896 and the various emigration com-
panies which had been formed were seoking other fields
of activity. The Philippines, Peru, and Mexico seemed
likely outlets, but North America continued to attract
the main body of emigrants. The prohibition after
1904 of contract labor in territory uncer United States
jurisdiction encouraged free emigration. Increasing
numbers of Japanese, both from Japan and from Hawaii,
flocked to the Pacific Coast. From 5,000 in 1902 the
number of Japanese settlers on the Pacific Coast in-
oreased to 91,000 1n 1910.
The continued influx of Japanese, mostly of the
laboring olass, soon began to arouse hostility. In
l9o7 President Roosevelt negotiated the "Gentlemen's
Agreement" with the Japanese Government whereby Japan
agreed

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
agreed to stop the emigration
of the laboring class
to the United States by withholaing pussports. hesults
were immediate and the number or Jupanese comin to
America from Japan roper aropred from 9, 948 in l907
to 1,593 in 1909.
This agreement, however, ic not
allay the agitation aguinst Japanese, for the wives
and children of Japanese resident in the Unitec Stntes
were allowed to enter and reentry was eriittec to
those already domiciled in America. In 1924 the forces
opposing Japanese immigration succeeded in passing the
Immigration Act of ly24 by which Japanese were abso-
lutely excluded except for certain strictly uefined
classes of merchants, students, ministers, and tempor-
ary visitors for business or pleasure.
Between 1894 and 1907 approximately 5,600 Japanese
workers went to Canada under a contract of employment
842.359
and a few more settled there as free inmigrants. Again
anti-Japanese agitation arose, and by the Canadian
Immigration Act of 1910 as amended in l924, the Governor-
General-in-Council is empowered to prohibit or limit,
under various reasons, the landing of immigrants belong-
ing to a specified class or nationality. By means of
Orders in Council, under this Act, the entrance of
Asiatic immigrants is strictly limited. But Japanese
are still allowed to enter the Dominion under a "Gentle-
mon's Agreement*, which was conoluded in l907 and orig-
inally permitted the entrance of 4o0 Japanese annually.
In l923 this was modified and the number is now limited
to 150.
Japanese

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.97)
- 4 -
Japanese immigration into Australia has never
been large, but after the entrance of a few theusand
the fears of the white settlers as to what might
happen led to the enforcement of a "White australia"
policy. In l9ol there was passed the Federal Immigra-
tion Restrictior Act hich prohibited the entry into
Australia of any person unable to write from dictation
2;
a passage of fifty words in a European language. Upon
repeated representations from the Japanese Government
which claimed discrimination, this section was amended
in 1905 to read "any prescribed language". As there
are no definite instructions limitin: the choice of
the language to be prescribed, the provisions of the
original Act can be and are enforced.
With the doors of the United States, Canada and
Australia barred against Japanese immigrants, the gov-
ernment of Japan began to regulate more strictly the
emigration of its subjects. A definite policy of re-
striction of emigration was adopted by the Government.
Local authorities issued passports only to emigrants
possessing qualification for the particular work they
proposed to take up, and only after it had been ascer-
tained from the receiving countries that the applioant
would be welcome. The outflow of emigrants decreased
at onoe while formerly the number of emigrants had
averaged over 10,000 annually, it fell to something like
4,000 in 1908 and 1909.
After

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
After 1907 Japanese emigration was directed
mainly to South America. The first organizea emi-
gration of Japanese laborers to South America hao
been to Peru in 1889 but was unsuccessful.
In 1898
one of the Japanese emigration companies attempted
to send "oontract" emigrants to Brazil but the ven-
ture failed. However, in 1907 an agreement was
signed between the State of Sao Paulo and a private
Japanese company handling emigrants.
The Company
was to send during the three following years 3000
Japanese between 12 and 40 years of age, to be fol-
lowed eventually by their families.
The policy of
restriction of emigration was ∞ntinued but after
19ll it began gradually to lose force, and emigrants
from Japan increased until in 1913 they nunbered over
20,Oo0.  Certain other countries of South America have
also received Japanese immigrants, but with the ex-
ception of Brazil and Peru there has never been any
considerable stream of emigration from Japan to Latin
America.
With the exception of the early days of the Meiji
Period, the emigration of Japanese laborers overseas
has always been in the hands of private agencies,
olosely supervised however by the Government. In l9l7
there were some forty of these emigration companies
whose sole purpose was profit. The National Government,
beooming interested in emigration matters, brought pres-
sure to bear whioh resulted in the combination of all
these

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.98)
一6-
these companies into one large one called the
Overseas Development Company (Kaigai Kogyo Kaisha).
This company now has practically a nonopoly of the
business of recruiting and placing of emigrants.
The Government's policy changed to one of ef-
initely encouraging emigration, and in l92l a subsidy
was given to the Overseas Development Conany to pop-
ularize emigration and the education and protection
of emigrants. After the earthquake in 1923 the Gov-
ernment paia the passage of over loc emigrants to
Brazil, and this led to the adoption of the system of
assisted emigration in 1924. Up to 1922 emigrants
had been charged fees by the emigration compunies,
but one of the conditions in granting the subsidy was
that the companies should make no chargt "or their
services to emigrants. This new policy the govern-
ment led to an increase in the number of rseas so-
cieties and private companies, many of which bought
large tracts of land in brazil on which the emigrants
were employed.
In 1927 the Overseas Emigration Societies Act
was passed, which provided for the establishment of
cooperative sooieties for the purpose of purchasing
land in foreign countries with funds contributed by
the sooieties' members. Under the Act, Government
assistance may be granted to their members and their
families to faoilitate their emigration. A number of
new

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
一7-
new overseas societies were formed which were feder-
ated in 1927.
. It wus also in 1927 that the Jovernment
established in Kobe the National Emi rants' Station
where emigrants are lodged without cost ror ten days
before embarking, for medical examination, inocula-
tions, and certain preliminary truinin.
Finally in
1929 an independent ministry was created, the Depart-
ment of Overseas Affairs, which became the central
authority dealing with all matters concerning emigra-
tion and colonies.
Number of Japanese Going Abroad nnually
Prior to l9oo statistics did not differentiate
between emigrants and non-emigrants. The largest
number of emigrants for a ten-year period was 155,000
during 1910-1920. Until 1929, when 25,704 emigration
permits were issued, the years 1917 and 1918 had seen
the largest number of Japanese leave the country. In
these years slightly more than 23,000 departed each
year. The total enigration since the restrictions on
foreign travel were removed in 1868, including non-
emigrants up to 1900, totaled 715,920 at the end of
1932. This is only slightly more than two-thirds of
the annual increase of population in recent years.
Table II in the Appendix of this report gives details
of the annual number of emigration permits issued sinoe
1900 and the various destinations of the emigrants.
The

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.98)
一8-
The average number of emigration permits issued
for the years 1u30-1933 inclusive (1933 estimatea
only) amount to almost 20,000 annually.
The majority
of these emigrants went to Brazil, while Siberiu, the
Philippine Islands, and the Dutch East Indies absorbed
the next largest groups. It is believed, however, that
after l935, owing to the many restrictions being placed
upon Japanese immigration to Latin America ana the
possibility of similar laws being put into efrect in
the Philippine Islands, this number will be much re-
duced. Since Japanese do not require permits to emi-
grate to China and Manchuria, there are no accurate
figures available for the annual exodus to those coun-
tries.
In connection with the number of Jananese enigrat-
ing annually, it is interesting to compare the number
of returning immigrants. Table III in the Appendix
gives the number of Japanese returning annually from
abroad. It should be pointed out that these figures
are compiled from the lists of third-class Japanese
steamship passengers and do not always mean that those
returning are coming back to Japan to stay. Many of
them are returning from the United States due to the
depression and the scarcity of jobs. Most of them hope
to return abroad after one or two years in Japan, so
that they are not permanent additions to the population
of Japan. However, they do add to the temporary popu-
lation. When a oomparison is made of the number of
Japanese

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
-9 -
Japanese who have left the country during the thirteen
years from 1921 to 1933 (inclusive) and the number who
have returned to Japan in the same peri a, we find that
the excess of those departins over those returnil. is
only 14, 229.
This means that tne net outflow fron
Japan is only slightly more than 1,000 a year on the
average, less tuan the net increuse in population by
birth for a single day.
Table IV in the Appendix of this report gives the
occupations of the emigrants leaving Japan during the
year 1932.
of the 19,033 persons who left the country,
13,068 were farmers, while 3,4y2 had no definite occu-
pation. Of the farmers listed, 7,514 were men anc 5,554
women.
The figures in parentheses in the table are for
fishermen who have emigrated during the rishing season
to Kamchatka and other Russian-controlled fishing grounds.
Mining laborers, small traders, and fishing laborers com-
prise the next largest group of Japanese emigrating
during 1932. Of the total number which went abroad dur-
1ng 1932, 11,408 were men and 7,625 women.
Present Position of Emigration
According to statistics issued by the Japanese For-
eign Office for the year l932, the latest available,
there were a total of 825,100 Japanese living abroad. Of
594.56
this number over 40 per cent. were in Asia while North
Amerioa and Hawaii accounted for 32 per cent additional.
19 per cent. were in South America which had a Japanese
population of 160,387. The remainder were in australia,
New Zealand

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.95)
-10-
New Zealand, and the South Sea Mandated Territories,
Mexico and Central America und Eurcue. Tabi I i.
the Appendix gives detaiis of tht ogrunl uis-
tribution of Jupanese livin abrouc rt ri
1904 to 1932. It should be rememberec tut this table
includes not only Japanese wh ave ui ratre ut also
those who have been born abroad. It is believed tiat
the figures are on the cor.servative side and that the
number of Japanese actually abroad is somewlat larger.
By far the most rapic rate of increase in Japanese
population abroad has been in South Anerieu.
11. 192C
the Japanese living in Souti Ameriea ate up ap: roxi-
mately 7 per cent. of the total livin: aoroat, while
by 1932 tne pereentage haa jumped to sli ntly over 19
per cent. By contrast the percentage of Jupanese living
in various parts of Asia has actually uecreased.
In
1920 the percentage was 43.58; in 1032 it had decreased
to 42.78 per cent. In adcition to a percentage aecrease,
there has been an actual numerical decrease in the num-
ber of Japanese living in China, Siberia, and British
North Borneo. The increase in the percentage of Japanese
population in Manchuria from 1920 to 1932 was only 3.78
per cent. from 27.77 to 31.55. Japanese population in
the United States and Hawaii has steadily decreased dur-
1ng the same period. On the mainland there has been a
numerical as well as a percentage decrease, while in
Hawaii there has been a percentage decrease but a numeri-
oa1

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.95)
-11 -
cal increase. The decrease on the ainland was from
125,285 or 23 per cent. in 1.20 t0 102,: or 1: :er
cent. in 1932. In Hawaii there was a mmerieul in-
crease from 108, 109 in 1.20 to 146, 704 1r 1.32. The
percentage, however, declined durin the sare peria
from 20 to 17.8 per cent.
The table below ives t. u mn ver a a us trioution
of Japanese livins abroad, as well us te rrenta es,
in the various areus of te world.
Area
Number
per cent. of
Total
Asia
358,010
42.78
North America and
Hawaii
269,285
58.64
South Arrerica
160,387
19.43
South Seas Mandutes
and Australia
31,557
3.82
Mexico anc Central
America
6,908
。54
Others
4,040
•49
825,10
100.00
Japanese Emigration to Brazi]
Out of a total Japanese population in South Alerica
of slightly more than 160,000 at the end of 1932, over
132,000 were in Brazi1. Because of this and because the
32.5594
average annual influx of Japanese immigrants into Brazil
for the five years ending 1933 was more than 14,000, the
study of emigration to Brazil permits a conception of
how large-scale emigration is carried on by Japan. At
the

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.96)
-12-
the end of 1934 it is estimated there will be approx-
imately 170,000 Japanene in Brazil, :early 100,000 of
whom ure concentrated in the State of suo iatlo. or
this latter muaber mere tar 40 per . are ea e
as laborers on coffee plantatons while t runainder
are about equaliy civiced butseen incenendent and sen i-
independent farmers.
Since 1924 Japanese emigration to razil as been
carried on as planned, systematic colonization.
The
Kaigai Kogyo Kaisha, which had a cupital of nine million
yen in 1932, is the leader in carryins ou: tiis eni ra-
tion. The national government of Japan ives this com-
pany an annual subsidy of approxirtely ¥250,000 and
also a contribution equal to the actual cost of passace
of the emigrants. In cooperation with the commany, the
Government has organized propaganda for Brazil which
emphasizes the resemblance of the future home in Brazil
to the native village, asserts the possibility of trans-
planting Japanese environment, and describes ti.e prom-
ising economic conditions. Forty representatives of the
Kaigai Kogyo Kaisha travel in Japan throughout the year
lecturing and showing films of Japanese colonies in
Brazil and the conditions there. There are also special
museums scattered over the country which provide further
information.
From the time the intending emigrant obtains per-
mission to leave Japan, he is a member of a group and
is guided and directed in all his activities by the
o ompany

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.97)
-13-
company and the Government. As stated above, the
Overseas Emigration Act of ly27 provies r ove-
ment assistance in buying land abroad a i rain
the future eni runt. After undergoin trainu
Government subsidized enigration home, the emi rat
travels on a fovern.ent subsitizrd shi t  ratl, tnd
upon his arrival he is registered witn the ase
Consulate ana, still under the supervision of the laigai
Kogyo Kaisha, he is taken to his new hone. Fra. begin-
ning to end there is no great roon for ine ivicual initia-
tive. Writing in the march, lyu4 issue of Pocific
Affairs on the subject, "Jupanese mi ration to Brazil",
J. F. Normano has the following to suy:
"Government regulation and supervision and
group organization have always been typical
features of Japanese emigration, but they never
took such drastic forms as in the organization
of the recent Japanese emigration to Brazil. We
have seen how the Government directly and through
centralized corporations organizes, prepares,
directs, and supervises this emigration. It is
not a free inaiviaual emigration, of the kind
which is often an escape from the native soil,
or a reaction against native conditions, like
the emigration which resultea in the expansion
of Europe. Extreme centralization and planned
management are its peculiar features."
Mr. Normano points out that another feature of
Japanese emigration to Brazil is its capitalistic char-
acter. He points to the concessions and large capital
investments of the Kaigai Kogyo Kaisha and says that
1t is a case of the export of capital to Brazil ac-
companied by its national representatives. The lands
in Brazil owned by the Japanese oompanies and by indi-
viduals

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.98)
-14-
viduals amount to approximately 1,225,000 acres. A
former Japanese Ambassacor to Brazil, I r. Akika
Akiyoshi, has recognized this characteristic or the
emigration anc expressed it as follows:
"The development of emigration to Erazil
requires, under any circunstances whatever,
courageous aavaices by our carital ists. It
is pleasing to stute that u movement of our
capitalists toward South america nas lately
been evident since that is the fundamental
necessity for emigration to Brazil."
In 1933 the number of Japanese who emigratec to
Brazil reached a total or more than 2?,000 persons
and it was expected that emigration in ly34 would ap-
proximate 24,000. However, in the sorin or 1.34
Brazil held a constitutional convention when a propos-
al was made to amend the constitution to limit the
annual immigration from the various nations to two per
cent. of the total number of aliens of each nation ad-
mitted during the past fifty years. On the basis of
170,000 Jupanese who, it is estimated, would be in
Brazil on July 1, ly34, this would mean that the emigra-
tion of Japanese would be reduced to about 3,400 persons
a year instead of the twenty or twenty-five thousand a
year which the Japanese had come to expect as a natural
right. A great outcry was raised in the local press.
The Japanese Ambassaaor to Brazil was urged to protest
against this "erring campaign". On May 24, l934, this
amendment to the Constitution was passed by an overwhelm-
ing majority. As a result, Ambassauor Hayashi was foroed
to

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.98)
一15 -
to resign for failure to take strong measures against
the Act, and the press accused the United states and
Great Britain of agitating for the passage of the Act.
Typical or the newspaper com ent is the following
taken from the Tokyo Nichi Nichi (English Edition) of
May 26, 1934.
"It must be remembered at t.e same time
that the influence of the United States stood
behind the movement. The American Ambassaoor
in Brazil, Hugh Gibson, who naue himself fam-
ous through the leacing part he played in the
naval disarmament conference in Geneva and in
London, has been very active in encouraging
the emigration bill.......It is frecly alleged
that he and other American agerts spent lare
sums of money in ravine the bill rinally rassed.
"Great Britain is another courtry which
exerted great influence in quickenin tne pas-
sage of the anti-Japanese immigration bill.
British Foreign Minister Sir John Simon, for
instance, on the oooasion of his recent visit
to Brazil,.......got in toucn with other spon-
sors of the bill and held long and secret
discussions with then."
For some time disoussion of the situation raged
in the papers and the Government was imnortuned to
make official protests to Brazil. Gradually, however,
the agitation ceased. Recent discussion has been to
the effect that law and action are two different things
in South America and that perhaps the effects of the
bill will not be as disastrous as at first anticipated.
In the Tokyo Nichi Nichi of September 29, 1934
(English Edition) Mr. Kyujiro Hayashi, who resigned as
Ambassador to Brazil upon passage of the Bill, is re-
ported as giving an interview in New York in which he
states

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.97)
-16-
states that the immigration question has not been
clearly put to the Japanese peor le anc t unme
anxiety has been caused. He says in art:
"We know that the amendment to the
Brazilian Constitution liriting the number
of immigrants will not be enforced liter-
ally, even from now on. I fail to see wl.y
they shoula complain so  ucn in Junal about
the emigration to brazil bein restrietec."
On September 27th r. Masaji Inoue, Iresicent of the
Kaigai Kogyo kaisha, who had been insrectine the con-
dition of Japanese enigrants in Brazil since the
passing of the amenament, returnec to Japan and mace
a statement to the press. as :ublis ed in the Tokyo
Nichi Nichi (Japanese Edition) for september s7th, he
corroberated mr. Hayashi's statenent. r. Inoue said
that the Brazilians liked the Japanese and thut every-
where he went throughout Brazil the Japanese were
being recognized as good farmers and hard-working,
orderly people. Te urged the Jaranese reople not to
get excited but to keep quiet anc await developments.
A junior official of the Japanese Foreign Office
connected with the Bureau which handles emigration to
South America told the writer that it was the opinion
of the Foreign Office that r. Hayashi and Mr. Inoue
were too optimistic. It is true that for the remainder
of the oalendar year approximately 2,ooo Japanese a
month are emigrating to Brazil, but the amendment is
to

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.94)
-17-
to go into effect from January 1, lu36, anc  t is
not believed that tihe putlook is ene ru i. A
sizeuble grour in ruzil, 1 1s rntu,  a1-
tating ror tre reteul or ts aedment,unese
Foreign Orfice does not bel eve it wili be suecestral.
While no one in Japan, orricial or non-ofricial,
believes tat er i gration to brazr will l t pop-
ulation or unen: loyment problems er Japan, e sudcen
shutting off of an ontlet for some 2c,o0c to 25,000
emigrants a year creates a psychological efrect which
cannot be ignored.
Emigration to Otier South Americu. Countries
Next to Brazil, Feru is the most important South
American nation as regards the number of Japanese resi-
dents. At the end of 1933 there were app roxi .ately
26,o00 Japanese living in Peru, the majority of whom
2
were engaged in business as small tracers in Lima and
the other chief cities of the country. In contrast to
the situation in Brazil, a conmparatively small percen-
tage of the Japanese in Peru are engaged in agricultural
labor.
On July 21, 1934, the Japanese press reported that
Peru had just passed an anti-alien law which provided,
among other things, that in stores, offices and similar
places, at least 80 per cent. of the employees must be
oitizens of Peru. Inasmuch as most of the Japanese in
Peru are small shopkeepers or employed in shops owned by
other

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.98)
-18-
other Japanese, this law will have the effect of
foroing more than half of the Japanese residei ts of
Poru out of work. This would meun the return of over
12,o00 people to a country already witi. neurly 40u,00u
registered as unemployed.
The Japanese Fore ign Orf ice is takin: a serious
view of the situation wihich will ensue fron tie oper-
ation of this law. The writer was informed by an
official of the inistry of Foreign Affairs that the
Japanese Government was strenuously persuading Japanese
resicents in Peru to leave the cities and become far-
mers and agricultural laborers. It is still too soon
to comment on the results of such action.
Next to Brazil and Peru, argentina has the largest
Japanese population of South American countries. at
the end of 1932 there were 5,124 Japanese in Argentina,
835511
the majority of whom lived in Buenos Aires where they
were mainly engaged in business and industry.
Those
on farms cultivate cotton, tea, cocoa and chincona bark.
Chili, Colombia, Paraguay, Bolivia, and Venezuela
have no restrictions on the immigration of Japanese.
The Japanese Government is encouraging emigrants to go
to these countries, as the soil there is suited for
various agrioultural purposes. The latest figures
available show 625 Japanese in Chili, 599 in Bolivia,
and 10 in Paraguay.
Emigration

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
-19-
Emigration to Asia
"Manchukuo".
of the 353,013 Japanese 1ivin i: Asiu, 260, 332
or almost 74 per cent. live in Manchuria and the Kwang-
tung Leased Territory. In addition to the Japanese
in Manehuria there are some Sot,ouo horeans who ave
emigrated to this territory. In contrast to the Kor-
eans in Manchuria, most of whom are faimers, the major-
ity of Japanese are Government officials including
those with the S..R., business men, and small traders.
After the Russo-Japanese war the Japanese authorities
expressed the belief that emigrants from Japan would
total a million within twenty years.
. The result after
almost thirty years has been approximately one-fourth
of this amount.
After the Manchurian Incident of September, 1931,
the Japanese again began to make predictions of a
growing Japanese population in this area. Ilans were
made to send armed bands of emigrants who would be
assisted by the Government to buy land and carry on
true colonization. The principal barrier to Japanese
emigration before the Incident was said, by the Japan-
ese, to be the difficulty of land-holding under the old
Chinese administration. All this woulå be changed under
the new order for Japanese would be given rights to hold
land. In October, 1932, the first 500 armed settlers
were dispatched to "Manohukuo". They were sent to the
Chiamussu

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.97)
-20~
Chiamussu District, in the northern part of Kirin
Province, near the Sungari kiver, about 300 niles
north of Harbin. Most of these emi ru. ts were sei-
ected from retired solaiers who came fro. t orthern
provinces of Japan, in oraer that they miht better
withstana the harashins of lire in northern Lane urin.
In 1933, 500 more emigrants were sent t. tiis cistriet.
A further 500 emigrated in the early summer of 1934.
Each member of these armed bands of settlers is
given the following aid by the Government; ¥250 to
builc a house, ¥80 for travellins expenses, ¥150 for
agricultural tools, ¥75 for a horse, anc ¥3c ror clo-
thing. They are iven ¥5 a month as a subsicy for food.
In addition the government appropriated ¥35,000 for
building barracks to house troops for the trotection
of the settlers.
In addition to direct government aid, the Toa
Agricultural Development Company and the Dairen agri-
cultural Company, subsidiaries of the Soutn mancnurian
Railway, had been interested in the so-called armed
emigration of the Japanese into this northern district
of Manchuria. During 1933-34 fiscal year the Toa
Company ws subsidized to the extent of ¥2,000,000 by
the South Manchurian Railway Company and in the fiscal
year 1934-35 the amount was increased to ¥3,000,000.
Reports vary as to the results of these colonial
adventures, but the general concensus of opinion has
been that they were not commensurate with the efforts.
of the 1500 armed settlers who have been sent to Man-

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.98)
-21-
churia since 1932 nearly one-half have returned to
Japan diseouraged by the difriculties. The Yon iuri
Shimbun for October 5, la34, announced that te South
Manchurian kailway would stop making contributions to
Manchurian inmigration through the two companies named.
Accord in to the newspaper neconts these twe o panles
have been considered by the hailway, since the ancnur-
ian incicent, only as burdens. The paper further reports
that the Japanese military authorities in Manchuria are
protesting against this action of the kailway in ceasing
to aid immigration.
In regard to Jupanese emigration to mancnuria, the
Japan Times, a Japanese owned ard ecited Englisi lang-
uage paper, statea in an editorial on June , l4, as
follows:
"Although nearly three years have passed since
then (the manchurian incident) no notable in-
crease of Japanese settlers in anchukuo has been
witnessea. A large number of persons went to
Manchukuo, areaming of good fortune, and of in-
mediately becoming wealthy. sut as to real settlers
it has been surprising that their nuaber has yet
shown no particular increase.
"Fonmerly it was said that the Japanese migration
to Manchuria was hindered by political obstacles,
but when such political aifficulties were removed,
it was revealed that the essential factors for
encouraging and fostering migration are economic
rather than political. Japanese agricultural
settlers are not optimistic in uanchukuo because
their living ana production costs are much higher
than those of Manohurian farmers. It is thus al-
most impossible for Japanese settlers to reduce
their oost of living to the standard of Manchurians
even though the land value is much lower than in
Japan proper."
The Koreans have gone to Manchuria in muoh greater
numbers than the Japanese. The totai number of Koreans
1n

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.98)
-22 -
in this area as offioially given by the Overseas
Ministry is 650,000, of whioh 90 per oent. are en-
aged in agrioulture. As stated above, the actual
number of Koreans in Manohuria is believed to be
more nearly 800,000. Approximately half of these
Koreans are in the Chientao Distriot on the Manohu-
Korean border while the remainder are scattered
throughout the country. The Government General of
Korea spont ¥1,403,717 in 1933 as subsidies for the
Koreans in the Chientao District to use in education,
banking, medical care, farming, industry, relief,
educational tours, and for a private railway.
Emigration to the Philippine Islands
After Manchuria, the Philippine Islands have the
largest Japanese population in the Far East. At the
end of 1932 there vas a total of 20, 316, over 12,000
of whom are in the Provinoe of Davao. A report written
811b.5594
by Consul L. D. Sturgeon, dated April 18, 1931, and en-
titled "Emigration from Japan to the Philippine Islands"
gives oomplete details concerning this subject.
The
general situation has not changeù since the above report
was written.
Most of the Japanese emigrants engage in some form
of agrioultural aotivity, the majority being employed
in hemp and copra produotion. ▲ few of them are engaged
in the fishing trade. As is the case with emigration to
Brasil, most or those going to the Philippines are re-
eruited  devekemment companies and find work on planta-
tions

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.97)
一23 -
tions oontrolled or owned by these oompanies.
The Japanese Foreign Office has lately become
conoerned about reports from Manila that the Philip-
pine Legislature was oonsidering means to restrict
1mmigration and that a bill had been introduced into
the Lower House to prohibit the employment of alien
labor on publio lands in all the Islands. These
measures are expeoted to have an adverse effect on
Japanese interests and the attitude of the Philippine
Government is being olosely studied.
Immigration into Japan
On Deoember 31, 1932, the latest date for which
oomplete statistios are available, there were 26,885
foreigners in Japan of whom 17,819 or 66.3 percent
were Chinese. Of Western countries, the United States
leads in the number of nationals with 2,Ol5 while Great
Britain comes next with 1,969. The above figures are
exolusive of the diplomatic and oonsular corps of the
various countries. Accordi ng to figures in the Japan
Year Book for 1933, 14, 910 of the foreigners in Japan
in 1931 were engaged in commerce and 2,813 were listed
as professional workers, the majority of them being
teaohers and missionaries.
Before l9lo there was no quostion of immigration
from the Asiatic oontinent. The unfavorable economio
eonditions in Japan for some time after the Restoration
of 186s did not eneourage either Chinese or Korean
Immigretien. Imperial Ordinance Number 352 of July 28,
1809

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.97)
-24-
1899, restricted the entry into Japan of alien la-
borers. While not disoriminatoryn la.
Ordinance was aimed at keeping out of Janu! t e ceolie
labor from Chint and horea. after te anexati 1
Korea in 1910 there was a suaden pouring into Japun
of laborers fron t Ioreut ieninsula under e clui ed
right, as Japanese sub ects, t etei tie muin island.
For some time after amexation the governor-teneral of
Korea controlled the number of Koreans coming to Japan
by issuing travel certificates. Due to dissatisfaction
in Korea, this restriction was ciseontinued in l922 anc
Koreans were permitted to enter Japar oroper without
hindrance until October 1925 when the Japanese Jovern-
ment was again compelled to institute control. It was
not possible to do this by law for technically loreans
were entitled to free admission. The matter was settled
by police regulations. There are no official statistics
published of the movements of Koreans into Japan.
The Bureau of Police have, in the past, compiled
figures of the numbers of Koreans coming into Japan
proper through the port of Fusan. In the eleven years
from 1917 to 1927, inclusive, there were 768,958 Koreans
booked to Japan and in the same period 574,126 Koreans
returned to their native land. This left in Japan
194,832 Koreans or an average annual net increase for
the eleven years of slightly more than 17,000 persons.
This is almost as large a number as the average annual
emigration from Japan during the past few years. Ac-
cording to the Osaka Mainichi for February 2, l93l, the
total

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.98)
-25-
total number of Koreans entering Japan up to the end
of 1929 was estimated as 1,186,310 while those return-
ing to horea numbered 647, 777 1eavin: 1n .apa: 338, 533
or an average annual net increase or 2c,041, wi.1er. is
larger than the total average annual emi rution turing
the same period.
If the average annual vet i mi ration
of Koreans into Japan proper is corvared
witn tre aver-
age net emigration rather than the total
emigration, it
will be seen that in recent years there has beer. a
large net immigration into Japan in contrast with the
net emigration therefrom. Even when the nunber of
Japanese who emigrate anrually to Hokkaico ana Sagha-
lien are added, there is still a net inmi ration into
Japan.
Internal Migrution anc Colonial Settlement
The results of internal migrat ion and colonial
settlement have not been much better than those of
foreign emigration. Details in regara to methods used
894.52
by the National Government in encouraging emigration
to Hokkaido, Korea, and Saghalien are given in a report
by Consul L. D. Sturgeon, dated April 15, 1933, entitled
"Land Settlement Plans and Practices in Japan."
For the past twenty-five or more years the Govern-
ment has taken measures to stimulate emigration to and
settlement of Hokkaido but with little success. From
an average immigration of 77,000 persons a year between
1916 and 1920, the number of incoming settlers fell to
26,000 a year between 1925-1930. It is estimated that
the number fell to around 22,000 in 1933. Professor
Darrell

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.98)
-26-
Darrell H. Davis of the University of Minnesota, who
carried on fiela work in Hokkaiao in ly32, as the
following to say in the July la34 issue or the Geo-
graphical Review.
"The Hokkaido Governr ent estimates that
the Do when fully occupied agriculturally
and develored industriully and com creially,
will support a total population of 6, Oc,ooo
people. This estimate is based on a aensity
comparable to that of the southern islands
and assumes the possibility of a similar in-
dustrial and commercial develorment. This
would mean an agricultural population of about
3,000,000 and an urban, or industrial and
commercial population of equal numbers - an
optimistic estin ate! The present aricultur-
al populution is about 2,voc,oo0; the prese.t
urban population, 8c0, o0c. To expand agri-
culture to support 3,oco,Occ people anc by
the use of sub-marginal land to afrord part-
time employment in connection with the forest
industries may be possible; to increase urhan
population from 800,000 to 3,000,000 is nrob-
ably impossible. Even on the assumption that
such an expansion should occur, Hokkaido coula
care for only about three years' increase or
Japan's population at its present rate."
After the southern half of the Islan of Saghalien
was ceded to Japan at the close of the nusso-Japanese
War in 1905, the Japanese Government actively assisted
emigration thereto, by granting free passages, the
leasing of land without rent, and granting subsidies
for the purchase of various agricultural implements,
horses and cattle, seed, etc. In l923 it ceded standing
timber to the settlers and two years later increased the
amount of money for general facilities. Since l928 the
Colonial Government of Saghalien has made great efforts
to stimulate immigration from Japan proper but with not
muoh success. When emigration to this northern island
was

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.98)
-27-
was at 1ts maximum in 1923-84, the number of Japan ese
who went there never reaohed 10,000 in a year and has
deolined since then. From 1906 when the country was
opened to oolonization until 193l, a total of only
24,000 families had settled in this region.
There are approximately 500,000 Japanese who have
aettled in Korea but they are ohiefly government of-
fioials or merohants living in the cities. In l930
the total population of Korea was 20,256,554. In the
twenty years from 1910, when Japan annexed Korea, until
1930, the Japanese population had increased from 171,543
to 501,867 or slightly more than 16,000 a year. Japan-
•se agrioultural laborers have never gone to Korea in
large numbers. During the Taisho Era (1912-26) there
were 3,900 families emigrated from Japan proper to the
Korean peninsula, according to the lwinistry of Overseas
Affairs. These people had been sent by a private society
known as the Toyo Takushoku Kaisha (Oriental oloniza-
tion Company). This company's activities ceased after
1988 as Japanese migration to areas already aeveloped
was disoontinued due to the hardships to Koreans which
it involved.
Formosa has been of no great value as an outlet for
Japanese population. Out of a total population of
4,803,976 in 1931 there were only 243,872 Japanese.
Sinoe 1907 the Japanese Government has been making efforts
to settle agrioultural and fishing laborers in Formosa
but with little suceess. By the end of l932, out of the
almost a5o,coe Japenese in the islands, less than 4,000
were

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.98)
-28 -
were immigrants in the true sense of the word, ac-
cording to the Ministry of Overseas Affairs.
The
remainder were Government officials and merohants.
Emigration to the South Sea Islands under Japan-
ese Mandate has been on a comparatively small soale.
In 1920 there was a Japanese population in these
islands of 3,671 and by 1932 it had increased to
25,766. During the same period the native population
had inoreased from 48,505 to 50,045 s0 that Japanese
now make up slightly more than half the total popula-
tion. The majority of them are farmers and live with-
in the Saipan Branoh Office District. Acoording to
the Overseas Ministry the number of Japanese in the
Saipan District in November, 1933, was 15,883, about
half of whom came from Ogasawara Island near Tokyo.
Restriotive Legislation; Immigrant and Non-Immigrant
In a report entitled "Alien Employment Restrictions
in Foreign Countries", dated November 19, 1932, Vice
Consul Hutohinson gave a resume of the restriction upon
the entrance of immigrants into Japan. There has been
no ohange in the regulations since that time. As men-
tioned above, Imperial Ordinance Number 352 of July 28,
l899, restricted the entrance of alien laborers into
Japan, outside the former settlements, without the per-
mission of an administrative official. Domestic service
is practically the only type of labor which is exempt
from this Ordinanoe. With the exception of Ordinance
No. s5s and an Oreinance of the Home Department, No. e2,
of

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.98)
-29-
of July 28, 1899, which defined the classes of la-
borers prohibited, there are no adninistrative or
legislative deorees governine the entrarce or inmi-
grants into this country.
Orainance No. 1 of the Minister of the Interior
of January 24, 1916, relates to the regulatio. s vov-
erning the admission of non-immigrur ts into Jun.
A full translation of this Ordinance was enclosed with
the report of Vice Consul Hutchinson mentioned above.
In general this ordinance provides that the competent
officials are to prevent the entry of aliens suspectea
of a desire to act aainst tne inte ests I the umpire,
those who may become a danger to public order or good
behavior, begars, anc vagabonas. Iersons likely to
ay
become a public char e may be refusea adnission as
persons who are afflicted with an acute contagious
disease or any other affection dangerous to public
health. Feeble minded persons and lunatics may also
be refused admission.
Emigration to America
Since the passing of the Immigration Act of 1924,
immigration into the United States of Japanese ceased.
The only persons of the immigrant class admitted to
the United States at present are returning immigrants
who have been previously admitted, priests, ministers
and their families, and students. According to the
Annual Report of the United States Commissioner General
of

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
一89-
of July 28, 1899, whioh defined the olasses of la-
borers prohibited, there are no administrative or
legislative deorees governing the entrance of immi-
grants into this oountry.
Ordinance No. 1 of the Minister of the Interior
of January 24, 1918, relates to the regulations gov-
erning the admission of non-immigrants into Japan.
▲ full translation of this Ordinance was enolosed with
the report of Vioe Consul Hutohinson mentioned above.
In general this ordinance provides that the oompetent
offioials are to prevent the entry of aliens suspeoted
of a desire to aot against the interests of the Empire,
those who may beoome a danger to publio order or good
behavior, beggars, and vagabonds. Persons likely to
beoome a public charge may be refused admission as  ay
persons who are afflicted with an acute ∞ntagious
disease or any other affection dangerous to public
health. Feeble minded persons and lunatics may also
be refused admission.
Emigration to America
Since the passing of the Immigration Aot of 1924,
immigration into the United States of Japanese ceased.
The only persons of the immigrant class admitted to
the United States at present are returning immigrants
who have been previously admitted, priests, ministers
and their families, and students. Aooording to the
Ammual Repert of the United States Commissioner General
of

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.98)
一31-
statistios, the majority of Japanese emigrants at
present returning from abroad annually come from
the United States and Hawaii. Of tie 13,170 Japanese
who returned to Japan in 1932, 10,438 were from Amer-
ioa. Unemployment due to the depression has been the
determining faotor in most cases. As soon us a Japan-
ese living abroad fails in making a living, he cones
back to his so-called "native place" where he can
usually expect to be taken care of by the members of
his family. If in the course of the next few years
conditions in the United States so improve that em-
ployment seems probable, an inorease in applications
for visas as returning aliens may be anticipated.
Conolusion
The outlook for the future of Japanese emigration
is not bright. With Brazil and Peru closing their
doors to the Japanese and with the Philippines and
Netherland's East Indies disoussing means for doing
likewise, it appears that there will soon be no place
to whioh Japanese may emigrate, with the exception of
territory oontrolled by or in the possession of Japan.
As previously stated, Japanese are not prone to emigrate
in large numbers to Japanese territory. Whether this
is due to an inherent lack of oapacity for emigrating
or to eoonomio reasons is a disputed question.
The majority of writers on the subjeot have been
of the opinion that there is a definite racial reluctance
among

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.99)
- 38 -
among Japanese to leave their mother country. Pro-
fesser Takaoka of Hokkaido Imperial University has
summed up the reasons whioh, he thinks, hinder the
Japanese from emigrating. As quoted in an artiole en-
titled "Japan's Migration Problem" by Seiohi Idei, in
the International Labour Review for December 1930, the
reasons are as follows:
The strong affeotion of the Japanese for their
mother country, the faot that they were of old forbidden
to leave it still having force as a tradition, and for-
mer governmental negligenoe in the matter of an emigra-
tion polioy. He also mentions certain other contributory
causes suoh as the olimatio advantages at home, lack of
funds in the cases of individuals who are eager to emi-
grate and the discouraging effect of the measures taken
in the United States to exclude the Japanese. In com-
menting on these reasons Mr. Idei says that they are of
importanoe but that economic reasons are at the heart of
the problem.
Writing in 1931, W. R. Crooker, of Oxford, takes the
position that the Japanese do have a capacity for emigrat-
ing. In his book, "The Japanese Population Problem", he
says:
*It is not enough to dismiss - as is frequently
dismissed - the prospeot that arises at this stage
by saying that the Japanese are a non-emigrating
or mom-eolonizing people. Some, probably many,
Japanese may not like leaving home, just as some,
probably many, Englishmen may not like leaving home;
that of course disqualifies neither race from a
eapaoity for migrating and colonizing. That there
are a million Japemese abroad is surely no uncertain
Implicatiom. That the number is not larger, when
there is a eensiderable amount of unemployment at
from

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.96)
一 33 -
from England in latter years when the unemployed
and perhaps permanently unemployed are counted
in their hundreds of thousands is evidence as to
a laok of aptitude in Englishmen for migrating.
A nation cannot have emigrants unless it can find
a country to send them to, just as a nation can-
not be a colonizing nation without colonial
territories. Japan is without colonial territor-
ies (that have any significance in this connec-
tion), and her emigration has always been countered
with very difficult obstacles. In view of the
historioal facts the million abroad - and in no
country to which they have immigrated is there
record anything than that of having made good to
an unusual degree - are evidence of a penchant
for emigrating rather than for not emigrating."
It is evident that Japanese as a rule will not emi-
grate as individuals, but only under the stimulus of
government enoouragement. In the past, the Japanese
Government has made no effort to encourage emigration
other than to lands which were known to be favorable
towards it. Industrialization has been looked to as
the solution of the population problem rather than emi-
gration. If, by means of a continually expanding export
trade, Japan can make provision for its inoreasing pop-
ulation, there will be no large scale emigration from
Japan to other parts of the world. If, in addition to
restrictions on Japanese immigration being raised through-
out the world, there are also placed restrictions on
Japanese exports, a situation will sooner or later arise
which will require deep study and a co-operative attitude
if a solution is to be reached.
F11e.No. 886/0ss
feRfl

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.98)
- 34 -
Sources of Information
Statistios furnished by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
(In Japanese)
Annual Report of Ministry of Overseas Affairs for 1933.
(In Japanese)
Japan Year Book, 1933.
"Industrial Labor in Japan" published by the Inter-
national Labor Office, Geneva, 1933.
"Japan's Migration Problem" by Seiohi Idei, in Inter-
national Labor Review, December 1930.
"Japan's Population Froblem" by W. R. Crocker, Cambridge
1931.
"Japanese Emigration to Brazil" by J. F. Rorman in
Paoific Affairs, March 1934.
Annual Report on Administration of Chosen 1932 - 33
compiied by the Government-General of Chosen,
Keijo, December 193s.
4th Report on Progress in Manohuria to 1934, published
by the South Manchurian Railroad.
Resume Statistique de L'Empire Du Japen, Tokio 1934.
Bureau D La Statistique Generale Au Cabinet Imperial.
Conversations with officials of the Japanese Ministry
of Foreign Affairs.

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.96)
ere
8
ére
Mnuria
Éongkong
and aco
éwantung
noe
18
te
Se
S
t
n
a
a
8
Yer
Tota1
40
h
t
81
W
E
i
0
Chne
ou
Pr
20 2 20
S
1904
138,591
138,591
7,399
2,172
1909
223,189
55,487
167,702
3,600
31,427
16,607
856
1914
358,711
48,909
309,802
4,563
51,385
21,662
1,555
1919
533,791
56,028
1,791
475,972
8,295
76,534
59,109
1,777
1920
541,784
69,080
2,303
470,401
6,238
81,385
54,544
1,780
1921
568,101
75,834
3,176
489,091
6,244
86,446
57,832
1,731
1922
590,024
81,573
3,358
505,093
11,102
87,238
59,321
1,754
1923
581,650
85,478
3.958
492,214
3,636
87,212
48,387
1,666
1924
594,611
86,261
4,957
503,393
3,297
93,223
45,269
1,649
1925
618,429
87,350
7,331
523,748
921
97,179
47,613
1,561
1926
640,099
93,354
7,718
539,027
1,386
98,302
48,961
1,486
1927
676,262
96,659
8,719
570,884
1,500
102,071
51,698
1,528
1928
709,838
100,709
12,281
596.848
1,592
103,720
55,156
1,577
1929
759,439
106,477
16,021
636,941
1,966
108,532
55,708
1,622
1930
740,774
115,468
19,835
605,471
2.790
112,137
54,391
2,219
1931
777,946
120,018
22,663
636,265
2,101
112,735
53,632
1,801
1932
825,100
124,825
28,009
672,266
2,201
135,507
53,374
1,472

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.93)
TABLE NO.I
THB FUMBER AND DISTRIBUTION OF JARAR
LIVI
Imdo-da
Bort ornoe
Boot
épino
astrala
Co1omblo
Tenosuoel
Bltlh
Porsila
Dutoh
Indios
mo pre
Doitd
statoen
anan
qno
500
565
517
287
510
552
161
289
589
505
502
546
307
265
2,611
5,166
8,297
8,278
8,189
8,728
6,446
8
.007
3.479
.241
.414
.424
.425
950
618
655
1,557
1,219
1,199
1,342
1,551
1,250
1,879
1,177
1,297
1,285
1,916
1,445
1,894
1,568
584
792
845
19
1
20
3,559
4,111
3,886
5.799
4,195
4,144
4,874
5,581
6,325
6,775
4,102
6,874
2,949
555
514
780
10,124
11,288
14,241
15,772
19,572
19,695
20,316
7,028
8,590
8,995
2,658
9,557
7,587
2,156
5,298
9,798
8,612
3,948
3,903
3,879
3,883
3,752
3,570
3,626
3,524
3,565
3,548
3,469
4,454
3,960
6,661
6,280
5,548
4,605
248,291
115,362
254,395
861,556
272,491
274,987
220,460
249,659
142,469
171,581
233,394
256,771
846,804
250,225
258,844
270,085
239,478
102,895
123,572
131,593
133,080
183,605
141,550
140,945
108,996
125,285
130,635
181,857
140,708
125,195
99,552
48,864.
76,709
80,775
144,29E
114,28
129,577
150,961
108,10
115,59
118,85℃
125,05€
125,764
187,951
184,048
180,908
146,764
116,169
65,76℃
90,80℃
65,005
118,599
118,858
185,086
185,764
180.899
189,981
180,961
184,048
180,908
144,295
114,285
100,109
146,764
116,169
65.760
90,808
19,688
19,789
19,679
19,885
81,155
11,959
18,629
10,718
19,160
19,626
16,680
88,506
88,664
20,855
80,186
8,854
2,196
2,567
5,181
5,652
5,810
4,857
2,465
2,757
2,198
2,884
5,882
5,980
5,824
466
018
505
550
598
425
404
191
497
656
677
787
784
788
787
764
754
194
191
185
214
225
221
224
816
228
806
350
126
170
199
122
152
141
48
50
11
12
12
12
21,141
18,401
20,650
20,585
10,969
11,786
15,207
16,979
10,864
1,486
4,560
5,881
9,675
9,440
9,864
5,910
5,910

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.98)
No.工
ON OF JAPANESE LIVING ABROAD.
NESE LIVI
Mai n and
Hawal
Canada
00
Éawai1
Cuba
Mexi
48,354
65,008
3,838
456
65,00
76,709
65,760
8,854
2,465
65,76
80,773
90,808
11,959
2,737
90.80
125,195
114,283
16,650
2,198
114,28.
125,285
108,109
17,688
2,284
191
108,10
123,372
113,399
18,627
2,176
398
113,39
130,635
116,169
18,712
2,367
423
116,16
ら
131,393
118,832
19,729
3,181
404
118,83:
131,357
123,036
19,160
3,310
497
123,03
133,080
125,764
19,679
3,632
636
125,76
133,605
127,951
19,885
4,018
677
127,95
140,708
129,377
21,155
4,530
737
129,37
141,550
130,941
22,506
4,505
784
130,941
140,945
134,042
22,664
4,857
788
134,04
99,552
120,908
20,835
5,832
787
120,90€
108,996
144,295
20.156
5,930
764
144,29!
3
102,895
146,764
19,626
5,824
754
146,76

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.93)
China
8
Hongkong
Inpdi
r1t1sah
op
onoo.
Borneo
g
opdI
2
8
Indi
お
11
Brit
ut
pud
1
16.788
B8B
36
10
48
10
30
5
15,502
27
11
10
3
0
85
1
26
427
71
1910
951
451
50
26
1
88
2
49
396
92
881
86
16
8
835
16
115
468
5.49
15.
370
105
10
3
240
10
35
186
411
5.9
18.
944
1,528
46
14
4
224
18
24
130
415
4,5g
18,
879
3,249
55
6
171
11
10
90
189
3,55
825
1,450
15
17
57
13
26
81
449
8,61
1
18
098
529
21
5
1
152
6
17
75
548
06
1925
10
696
108
19
4
4
487
5
36
169
1.
655
28
1926
16
104
551
57
6
5
402
83
27
226
8,197
54
1989
10
041
896
19
4
11
475
34
39
248
2,660
37
1928
19
850
870
56
6
4
420
106
16
191
2.077
so
1929
25,
704
884
49
22
8
513
30
52
507
4,555
25
1950
21
829
1,515
100
18
7
835
97
71
558
8,
685
1961
10
584
1,258
62
15
10
549
58
106
447
1,109
1988
19.085
1,096
46
7
5
356
64
83
533
747
(25,522)
(25,302)
Total
205,008
15,862
590
154
57
4,831
535
540
3,441
19,657
22.06

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.98)
r A 
South Arioa
getina
Fr n A1
Paraguay
Bo1vria
ruguag
Braz11
Europe
Ch1e
Egypt
AT
5
5
468
145
605
27
1,091
305
15,462
683
1,231
851
389
31,349
1,580
1,377
一
一
851
429
33,456
2,027
7
9
1,351
12
35
713
451
35,605
2,167
6
4
2,380
20
37
182
482
37,558
2,161
3
9
2,819
13
27
504
479
39,249
2,320
4
11
3,480
18
27
716
581
41,774
2,383
4
11
3,804
21
28
657
556
49,400
2,609
6
6
3,434
20
44
678
637
55,481
2,731
6
5
3,360
34
42
608
615
65,190
3,056
6
7
3,170
37
48
421
625
76,488
3,466
5
11
2,992
41
45
463
713
103,166
3,888
5
20
3,314
80
36
551
610
116,502
4,027
8
36
3,433
48
21
628
629
119,740
4,846
12
29
3,696
51
46
7
599
625
132,699
5,124
10
36
3,778
56
89
7

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.95)
ere
BU
60
hu
00
ah
a
8
h
C
0
C
i
•r
Tot
ar
Ru
BOOE
60
rn
a
0
i
Rr
•r
+
B
S
1900
.16,758
532
36
10
48
1905
13,302
27
11
10
3
35
1910
6,951
431
30
26
1
82
1915
12,543
821
26
16
2
235
1920
13,541
370
105
10
3
240
1
1981
12,944
1,328
46
14
4
224
1
1922
12,879
3,249
35
6
171
1
1923
8,825
1,450
15
17
57
1
1924
13,098
329
21
5
1
152
1925
10,696
108
19
4
4
437
1926
16,184
531
37
6
5
402
ε
1927
18,041
896
19
4
11
475
3
1928
19,850
870
36
6
4
420
1C
1929
25,704
884
49
22
3
513
3
1930
21,829
1,513
100
18
7
835
C
1931
10,384
1,238
62
15
10
549
5
1932
19,033
1,096
46
7
5
356
E
(23,322)(23,302)
Total
203,008
13,862
590
134
57
4,831
52

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.97)
TABLE NO. II
TABLE NO.
ANNUAL NUMBER OF PERMITS ISSUED FOR I
PERMITS ISSUED FOR IMMTGRANTS
TO LEAVE
JAPAN
188
Guam
1ad
U.S.A.
Hawa11
Tota1
am
exx
Pam
Cuba
Sal1vo0r
Értina
Brazi1
rgentina
5
Braz11
Bo15
Ch1e
Co1 obia
Parguy
Per
Uruuy
zuel
A
Autra1a
Bri 8
Gue
New
529
7,585
9,114
2,710
1
21
427
714
10,813
11,527
6
349
27
2,685
1,109
2,077
4,535
1,635
2,197
2,660
747
411
449
396
468
415
189
548
3,558
4,064
5,959
4,321
2,617
5,498
344
370
306
236
289
926
2,112
2,163
1,717
3,055
2,960
2,789
3,215
119
265
485
636
526
6,227
8,748
7,536
6,518
2,643
8.553
4,729
774
355
980
896
571
1,009
1,381
1,022
1,103
1,050
1,163
1,062
106
648
430
137
979
778
538
98
149
353
249
434
336
319
283
160
76
77
19
69
68
53
5
39
24
63
18
16
21
24
24
15
30
7
9
6
2
117
127
29
37
45
37
71
1
6
8
1
430
489
362
121
182
262
387
239
58
33
42
52
66
53
2
12,002
15,092
15,597
13,741
5,565
9,625
3,689
4,908
8,599
796
970
986
970
911
39
489
362
121
430
182
262
387
239
33
42
66
53
52
58
2
12,002
13,741
15,092
15,597
3,689
4,908
8,599
5,565
9,625
796
970
970
911
986
39
21
26
11
15
2
1
2
1
1
5
5
5
1£
18
16
21
25
13
22
40
20
8
8
6
4
8
42
59
3
2
2
1
1,250
1,271
1,410
1,585
348
202
333
922
831
299
369
483
836
717
651
2
1
2
5
105
228
112
250
139
129
270
277
20
99
75
34
54
92
8
2
37,334
10,178
2,626
296
478
1
2,743
92,540
2,743
92,540
95
213
108
1
10,676
5
5
1,864
2
19,657
22,064
15,270

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.95)
TABLE NO. I
PERMITS ISSUED FOR IMMIGRANTS TO LEAVE JAPAN
gentina
a
Guiea
Bo1via
ombia
Paraguag
le1a
AutraL
Brazi11
gua
Bri 8h
2.6
nz
Peru
4
Che
01
ee
New
V
21
27
2
911
483
8
33
39
一
8
1,
348
20
一
42
970
5
16
一
836
105
53
970
2
21
3
717
99
52
986
1
8
2
202
228
66
796
2
6
333
54
58
3,689
4
651
112
121
4,908
1
12
922
250
182
8.599
1
25
1,250
139
262
9,625
5
18
1,271
129
387
12,002
5
13
1.410
270
430
15,597
21
22
59
1,585
277
489
13,741
26
40
42
1
831
2
75
一
362
5,565
11
20
2
299
1
5
34
2
一
239
15,092
15
8
369
2
92
2.743
92,540
95
213
108
1
10,676
5
5
1,864
2

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.89)
Co1ong
ouo
8
o a
pua
Afr ica
Bast
0010
atra
Guinea
8
8
Brit1ah
Bri18h
Oceania
ah
I
8
8
e
Tahi ti
(rench)
h
s
Africa
oçã
ti
0
C
South
Brit1
other
m
New
Bri
TooT
60
ew
pad
Eth
N
21
988
3,253
1
27
40
612
14
0
0
8
181
1,015
137
11
一
一
8
1
1
20
2
22
4
2
1
5
0
一
105
3
1
一
99
2
3
1
1
228
1
一
一
54
6
3
一
一
112
一
1
1
8
一
250
1
1
159
3
9
1
1
129
4
3
1
270
9
5
3
277
4
17
10
8
一
75
1
30
14
1
5
8
一
34
2
1
5
18
2
5
92
2
2
6
1
4
8
一
1,864
2
36
3
8
90
15
2
2
1
4
36

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.97)
TABLE NO. 4
MIGRANTS CLASSIFIED BY
OCOUPATIONS
Sent by
Not sent by
Companies
Companies
Total
Total
Not con-
Contracted
tracted
laborers
laborers
Men
Women
Mon
Women Men
Women
Mon
Women
Farmers
6,031
4,692
898
507
585
355
7,514
5,554
13,068
Industrial
laborers
2
3
72
26
74
29
105
Mining
laborers 1,043
8
1,043
8
1,051
Fishing
laborers
85
18
1
318
17
344
35
379
(21,688)
(13)
(一)
(一) (-)
(-)(21,688)
(13) (21,641)
Communication
& transporta-
tion
laborers
7
1
7
1
8
(Labesers
handling
lumbers) (1,681)
(一)
(一)
(一) (-)
(-) (1,681)
(-) (1,681)
Commeroial
labosers
488
197
488
197
685
Servants
11
71
11
71
88
Day laborers
120
19
120
19
139
Free laborers --
18
8
18
8
26
No oecupation
1,405 1,359
132
105 252
259 1,789 1,705
3,492
Total
8,504 6,077 1,055
615 1,871
935 11,408 7,625 19,035
(28,809)(15)(-)
(-)(-)
(-)(23,309)
)(13)(23,588)
GRAND
14,581
1,648
TOTAL
(25,522)
(-)
2,804
19,055
(-)
(25,322)
16,889
(25,588)
(Figures for 1932.)

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.96)
TABLE NO. V
CLASSIFIED BY AGE
under
5ys -
20y8-
30ya -
over
4E
5 years
20y=
30y
50y
50y
To tal
1931
903
3,289
3,443
2,471
278
10,384
1930....
2,816
7,879
6,273
4,806
655
21,829
1989
1,932
7,461
9,380
6,341
590
25,704
1928 ....
2,023
6,669
5,777
4,789
592
19,850
1927 .... 1,648
5,605
5,466
4,730
592
18,041
(Figures for 1932)

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.93)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
77
INovember 23, 1934.
08.
ROM:
S:
51
1934, from Tokyo:
This is a comprehensive renort on
migratory movements of the Japanese people.
At the end of 1932 the number of Japanese
abroad totaled 825,100, of these 42 were
in Asia; 32% in North America and nawai1;
and 19 in South America. Te number of
Jananese in Asia and tie Inites states has
Jananese in south mer ca have reatly in-
creased. Brazi1 (16c,000) and eru (26,000)
lead in number of Japanese. Those n the
Philinpines number 20,000.
Jenanese emi ration is unique in that
it is n t one of individuals, bit is
government controlled and inspired. aced
today by restrictive measures in ractically all
countries, Japan can not rely on emi ration
to relieve ponulation pressure. he present
excess of those departing over those returning
is about 1,c00 per yeer, less than tle net
population increase for a sin le day.
Manchuria was expected to become the
happy valley for Japanese emigrants, but the 
results are disappointing. f the settlers
who

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
who have been sent to Manclluria under heavy
Japanese subsidy, about half have returned.
About 260,000 Jananese reside in wantung
Leased Territory and ancl ria, but tle
majority are officials, business men and
traders. In additien about 650,C00 Horeans
live in Manchuria.
Immigration into Japan is controlled by
law. Certain classes of laborers are
excluded. Tl e number of oreans entering
Janan since 1917 exceed: tle number of
Jananese emigrating to forei-n lands.
Migration to Hokkaido, orea, Saghalin and
Formosa has had little success.
Many writers believe that the Japanese
do not like to irigrate; that there is a
definite racial reluctance t leave their
home land. However, a country can not have
emigrants unless it can find nlaces to send
them to. erever Ja anese 'ave one tl ey
have made rood in an economic way.
2=.
WTT/DLY
894.55/4

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.92)
December 12 1934.
894.55/4
Arthar Garrels, Esquire,
Ameriean Consul General,
Tokyo, Japan.
Sir:
In acknowledging the receipt of the Consulate
General's report dated Ootober 19, 1934, entitled
TREND OF MIGRATORY MOVEMENTS - JAPAN, PrOPAPed by
AV
Mr. J. M. Allison, I take pleasure in informing you
123
that the Department, in view of its very satisfactory
sharacter, has acoorded to it the rating of ExoELLENT.
The esmtente of this iastruotion should be brought
te the attentiem of Mr. Allieen.
Very truly years,
For the Seeretary of State:
WILBUR J. CARK
804.5s/€
A true copy of
the signed
F.P.
nal.
FE
gluy
gnaw
m.m.1d.

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
December 3, 1934.
LDS:
MMA:
Report No. 145 of November 2, 1934,
from the Consul General at Tokyo:
Although laws affecting admission to
Japan do not discriminate against
foreign actors, musicians, etc.,are not
welcomed and are treated in an arbitrary
manner by the Jananese pclice. Admission
of such people to Japan is usual y limited
to a short period, despite tle possession
of valid visas.
Note: e are very enerous to
Japanese theatrical orranizations in
regard both to visas and length of stay
in America. Far more Japanese t!eatrical
people visit America than merican
theatrical people visit Japan. There
undoubtedly exists cause for compla:nt.
NNTT/DLY
894.55/5
Ste 4 11 Mar.

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.95)
LE
Required
partmont's multigraphed instruction of September 14, l934
F11. No. 800.55/18A)
E
20AM 10 12
S
FAIRS
$t
ney
(1)
Conditions of Temporary Admission and Residence
894.55/5
of Instrumental Musicians, Other Musicians,
Actors, Artists, and Choristers.
Prepared by:
J. M. Allison
Amerioan Vioe Consul.
Date of Completion:
November 2, 1934
November 2, 1084
Date of Mailing:
aulm yamees
Arthur Garrels,
Approved by:
Amerioan Consul General.
工
9
2 cokes remsed for 0.0 n.

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.99)
There are no speoial regulations or laws in
Japan governing the admission and residence of in-
strumental musicians, other musicians, actors, artists
and choristers. All of the above come under the pro-
visions of Ordinance No. 1 of the Ministry of Home
Affairs of January 24, 1918, relating to the regula-
tions governing the admission of non-immigrants into
Japan. A full translation of this ordinance was en-
closed with a report by Vice Consul Hutchinson entitled
"Alien Employment Restrictions in Foreign Countries",
dated November 19, 1932. No changes have occurred.
Imperial Ordinance No. 352 of July 28, 1889, prohibita
the entrance into Japan for permanent residence of all
alien laborers unless permission be obtained from an
administrative official. Domestic service is practi-
cally the only form of labor exempt from this Ordinance.
Ordinance No. 1 relating to the admission of non-
immigrants into Japan provides, in general, that the
competent officials are to prevent the entry of aliens
suspeoted of a desire to act against the interests of
the Empire, those who may become a danger to publio
order or good behavior, beggars and vagabonds. Persons
likely to beoome a publio oharge may be refused admission
as may those who are afflioted with an acute contagious
disease or any other afrliction dangerous to public
health. Feeble minded persons and lunatics may also be
refused admission.
While, as stated above, there are no special regu-
lations dealing with musioians, aotors or artists, the
police have taken a more striot attitude towards the
aotivities

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.99)
一2-
aotivities of persons of these olasses than towards
the ordinary tourist and business man. The public
charge provision of the law has been interpreted
strictly and in nearly every case it has been necessary
for actors and musicians to be guaranteed by some re-
sponsible local organization before the police will
permit them to land in Japan. The fact that the con-
tinued presence of persons of this class in Japan might
become a danger to public order has often been alleged
by the police in instigating proceedure of deportation
against them.
In many cases the police have been able to get rid
of such persons by charging then with having transit
visas good for only thirty days stay in Japan. The ex-
perienoe of the Consulate General has been that most
actors and musioians have been misinformed as to the
types of Japanese visas available and have applied for
a transit visa beoause it was gratis and they believed
that an entrance visa would cost ten dollars. There have
also been cases of persons of these classes embarking
upon a round-the-world cruise and then suddenly deciding
to stop off in Japan when they found possible employment.
These persons usually have transit visas only, and at the
end of their thirty days are asked to move on. In some
cases, if a responsible organization will guarantee their
good conduct and eventual departure, the police will allow
them to remain. There is no uniform practice in regard
to this among the offioials of various oities of Japan nor
1s the practice uniform in cities themselves. It is this
lack of uniformity and sometimes arbitrary action on the
part

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
part of the police whioh has been the ohief point of
complaint by foreigners affected. In some cases the
possession of proper entrance visas and guarantees from
local authorities has not been enough to prevent the
eviotion of actors and musioians.
The oase of Mr. and Mrs. D. Kaili and Miss Pearl
Alama, American citizens of Hawaiian origin, is typical
of treatment accorded visiting entertainers by the
Japanese authorities. The above trio, a vaudeville
team, landed at Kobe on March 1, 1934, and upon disem-
barkation their passports were taken up by the Kobe Water
Police for reasons unknown to them. They appealed to the
American Consulate in Kobe and an investigation was made.
Vice Consul McClintock cf the Kobe Consulate inter-
viewed the chief of the foreign section of the Water
Police and was informed that the police would not be abi.
to give up the passports unless the troupe could give
evidence of a contract for employment in Japan.
The
visas, which the police admitted were in order, provided
for a stay of two weeks in Japan. Mr. Kaili was eventually
allowed to proceed to Tokyo where he succeeded in obtaining
employment for his troupe in the Florida Dance Hall. Upon
reoeipt by the Kobe Water Police of a copy of a letter ad-
dressed to the American Consul in Kobe from Mr. Kaili
stating that he had a contract with the Florida, the police
gave up the passports.
The original date of expiration of the Kaili troupe's
passports was Maroh 18th and about the first of April they
informed the Consulate General they had been ordered by
the polioe to leave Japan on April 6th. They had completed
their

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.98)
-4 -
their contract with the Florida Dance Hall and had
signed a second with the manager of the Hogaku Theatre.
Both of these organizations were able and willing to
guarantee that the troupe would not become a public
charge. The Consul General addressed a letter to the
Chief of the Foreign Section of the Metropolitan Police
setting forth the above faots and asked the reason for
requesting these performers to leave Japan. In his
reply the Chief of the Foreign Section stated that when
these persons landed at Kobe on Maroh lst there was no
trouble in regard to their visas but that their landing
had been prohibited for the preservation of order. He
then went on to say:
"However, as they had a contract with the Florida
Danoe Hall of Tokyo for fcur weeks employment and
as the Dance Hall stood security for them, their
landing was permitted. On March 3lst, acoording
to their contract, their relations with the above
Danoe Hall terminated and the Dance Hall was no
longer responsible for them. Their continued stay
in Japan was therefore not permitted."
The Consul General replied to this letter pointing out
the inconsistency between the police's statement that
the Florida was no longer responsible for the troupe and
the fact that the Florida had indioated that they would
be willing to sign a further guarantee and that the
Hogaku management was also willing to guarantee the
troupe. No reply was reoeived from the police to this
letter, and the Kaili party was required to leave Japan.
An offioial of the Foreign Seotion of the Metropol-
itan Polioe informed the writer that there were no writ-
ten rules or regulations for the guidance of the police
in their treatment of foreign entertainers. In most
cases in whioh a person has only a transit visa, the
polioy

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.98)
-5 -
policy of the police, according to this official,
is to ignore his presence in Japan unless a complaint
1s made by some one that the foreigner has stayed too
long. This complairt is usually made by persons in
competitive lines and is based upon fear that local
business will suffer. This undoubtedly was a factor
in the refusal of the polioe to allow the Marcus Show
to remain in Japan.
There are no statistios published in Japan in re-
gard to the number of artists, musicians, actors, or
choristers entering or leaving the country. At the
present time it is estimated that there are not more
than fifty or sixty such persons in the whole of Japan.
The police authorities do not look with favor upon
the average dance hall orchestra and entertainers coming
to Japan. Legitimate stage shows are welcomed for but
a limited period and it is extremely unlikely that any
show, even with proper entrance visas, would be allowed
to remain in Japan more than two or three months. The
police have adopted the attitude that in the cases of
persons of the types mentioned in this report, there is
a strong presumption that they might become public ohar-
ges or in some manner be prejudicial to public order.
There is no ground for complaint because of the general
prinoiple followed, but the lack of uniformity in the
administration of the law, and the sometimes arbitrary
and apparently unreasonable action of the police have
been the sources of much dissatisfaction and irritation.
F11e No. 855/850.4
JMA/

=== Page 124 === (confidence 1.00)
SOURCES OF INFORMATION
Files of Consulate General.
Reports from Yokohama and Kobe Consulates.
Interviews with officials of the Foreign
Seotion of the Metropolitan Police.

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.90)
Required
(Department's multigraphed instruction of September 14,
1954 (F11e No. 800.55/18A))
193401M 1 12
S
C
1
F
)eparunant
Report No. 146
894.55/6
(2)
Conditions of Temporary Admissic
Of Aliens for Employment Other Thand Residence
in (1).
Speciried
Jmalliron
Prepared by:
J. M. Allison
American Vice Consul.
Date of Completion:
November 2, 1934
Date of Mailing:
November 2, 1934
Qlur
a rees
Approved by:
Arthur Garrels,
Amerioan Consul General:
7
L
   08
2 coks emone

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.99)
There are no special regulations covering the
condition of temporary admission and residence of
aliens for employment other than specified in Report
No. 145. Full details in regard to the admission and
residence of aliens into Japan for employment are
given in the report by Vice Consul Hutchinson entitled
800.504
939
dated November 19, 1932. There have been no ohanges
in the regulations.
F11e No. 855/850.4

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.91)
Vo
No.
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Nagasaki, Japan, October 25, 1934.
SUBJECT:
Special Imigration Reports.
84455
THE HONORABLE
894.55/7
STAE
10
THE,SECRETARY OF STATE.
10
CVED
WASHINGTON.
5
SIB;
1:A0:1
R
I have the honor to refer to the Department's Instruction
of september 14, 1934 (File No. 800.55/18a), und to st te that
0
this Co.sulate has been informed that the re orts requested,
being national in scope, will be ade by the American Consulate
General, Tokyo.
Respectfully yours,
Glen Bruner,
Anerican Vice Consul.
J.
855
GB:gb
u

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.93)
VD
No. 394
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Kobe, Japan, October 24, 1934.
SUBJECT:
Special Immigration Reports.
894.55/8
6.
THE HONORABLE
894 55
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
in
STATE
101
WASHINGTON
(2)
IE
SIR:
()
5
R
have the honor to refer to the Department's
C
and in reply to state that the Consulate General at
Tokyo has indicated that it will prepare a consolidated
15 1934
report for Japan on the subject and that a separate
report for Kobe will not be prepared.
Respectfully yours,
Honond Ponnor
Howard Donovan,
American Consul.
855/850.4/811.11
KCK/mh
7
In quintuplicate to Department.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
8

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.91)
No. 128.
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Nagoya, Japan.
October 30, 1934.
SuBject: Special Immigration Reports.
1—1066 G P O
THE HONORABLE
894.55/9
5
S
OTHE SEERETARY OF STATE,
EEED
M
WASHINGTON.
5
894.55
SIR:
0
EPART
34
of S8ptember 14, 1934 (File No. 800.55/18A), which requests
certain special immigration reports, I have the honor to
state that inasmuch as the reports mentioned are national
in scope they will be made by the Consulate General at
Tokyo.
Respectfully yours,
Josoph E. Newton,
American Vice Consul.
©LC9193
855/850.4
JEN:KM
人
H

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.96)
VD
PM RECD
No. ---.
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Yokohama, Japan, October 24, 1934.
203
SUBJECT:
SPECIAL IMMIGRATION REPORTS
894.55/10
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
WASHINGTON
SIR:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
89455
instruction of September 14, 1934 (File No. 800.55/-
18A) requesting reports covering the following
subjects:
0090 1934
(1) Conditions of temporary admission and
residence of instrumental musicians,
other musicians, artists, and choristers.
(2) Conditions of temporary admission and
residence of aliens for employment other
than specified in (1).
The Consulate has been requested to reply to
the Department to the effect that since the reports
mentioned are, in Japan, national in scope, they
7.
will be made by the Consulate General at Tokyo.
Respeotfully yours
Richard F. Boyce,
855/850.4
American Consul.
GCM/ho

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.95)
No. 111.
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Ta1hoku, Taiwan, Japan, November 8, 1934.
SuBJEcT: Special Immigration Report.
1—1065 G P O
fple
THE HONORABLE
00
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.
94.55/11
SIR:
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of the
Department's circular instruction of September 14, 1934,
file No. 800.55/18A, requesting the transmittal of special
594 55
immigration reports, end to inform the Department that in
compliance with the instruction of the Consul General at
Tokyo the required information for this Consular district
has been forwarded to the Tokyo Consulate General for in-
olusion in a special immigration report national in scope
to be submitted by that office.
ED
Respectfully yours,
Walter P. MoConaughy,
American Vice Consul.
File No. 855/850.4
WPM/tkh
In quintuplicate to Department.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.97)
Deoember 13, 1935.
894.55/1
Dear Mr. Grew:
I wonder whether you could conveniently give us,
either in a letter or in a despateh, information with
regard to the ourrent enforoement of Japanese laws govern-
ing (1) immigration of aliens and (2) owmership of land
by aliens. A professor at Yale who is well and favorably
known in the Department expects very soon to publish a
book in whioh he desires to make some mention of both
of these subjects, in connection, I think, with the ques-
tion of Japan's complaint against disoriminations in other
countries. In such presentation of material as you may
be in position to give us, it would be useful if you
would indieate any point at whieh we should dirferentiate
between what may be communicated and what should not be
eommmmieated, and, in conneetion with the former, citations
to sourses.
We have already given the inquirer the benefit of
information eontained in the Embassy's despateh No. 150.
Marek 6, l92s, sontaining a tranalation of a land owmership
bill.
FILED
FEB 1 3 1936
Je C. Gre.

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.96)
一
bill, and in the Eabessy's telegram No. 117, Novestber 5.
1926, 5 p.m., reporting an ordinance earrying inte, effget
"Alien Employment Restriotions in Foreign Countries,"
November 18, 1932, from the Tokyo Consulate General eiting
(a) 1mperial ordinance No. 352, July 28, 1899, eontaining
the basie prohibition of the entranee into Japan for
permanent residence of all alien laborers unless permission
be obtained from an administrative official, and eiting
(b) deeree No. 1 of the home minister, January 24, 1918,
governing the admission of foreigners. (In conneetion
with the latter, it is noted that a requirement for admis-
sion is the possession of a visa, and consequently the
rogulations governing the issuance of visas to Chinese
would be pertinent.)
What is partioularly desired now is information show-
ing any restriction or limitation, direet or indirest,
legislative or administrative, if sueh exists in astual
prastice, on the right of aliens (espesially of Chinese)
to own land (agricultural especially) within the Japanese
empire, and on the right of aliens to immigrate. For
instenee, what in faet keeps Chinese coolies out of the
country and what prevents Chinese farmers from buying land
in Keree or in Japen proper?
Knowame

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.95)
Enewing how buay the Embassy is, and espeelelly
hesitating to add to the amount of work whieh will have
greeted you upon your return, I am reluetant to bother
you with the above, but if you can possibly find time
to have this inquiry given attention I think that the
service we will be able to render will be to our advan-
tage. -- As between the two, it would be more valuable
to us to have pertinent information at an early date
though in brief and rough form then to have some weeks
henee a complete and polished report.
With cordial greetings and all best wishes, I am,
Yours sinoorely,
Stanlay K. Houhedla
A true copy of
the signed orig-
W1T
mm.H
FE:SKH/ZMK
FE

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.93)
TACH
January 31, 1936.
Dear Dr. Bemis:
Pursuant to your oall at my office early in
894.55/1
Desember I addressed a letter to Ambassador Grew at
Tokyo requesting information on the ourrent enforoement
of Japanese laws governing the immigration of alions and
the ownership of land by aliens, and a reply has now been
received. I transmit herewith a copy of Ambassador Grew's
B
roply. I am glad to be able to make this material avail-
able to you for your information and for use in your dis-
oretion as to substanoe but with complete eroeption of
confidential portions and without attribution to any offi-
cial source.
Please return the letter at your carly convenienee,
R
and oblige
Yours sincerely,
Enelosure:
From Ambassador Grew
dated January 10, 1936.
Semmel F. Bomis. Ph.D.,
Yale University,
Mew Haven, Commsetient.
78:00:0B/2K

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
DIVISION OF
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, January 10, 1936.
Divisio
Achid recegt Jon.27,1956
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
FEB 4 -1936
Leattent
J00rk
VISA DIVISION
Department of State
Sanuel 2.Bemid
gau.31, 1436
FEB 8
Dear Mr. Hornbeok:
公
on the subject of the current enforcement of the
Japanese laws governing the immigration of aliens and
alien land ownership, with particular reference to
894.55/12
the immigration of Chinese into Japan and their right
to acquire land, especially agricultural land. The
Embassy staff has not found time to investigate these
questions thoroughly, but the following brief report
is based on such informal and unofficial inquiries
as we have been able to make, in addition to informa-
tion on file in the Embassy and the Consulate General.
123
I have marked certain passages of this letter as
confidential, but I wish to leave it entirely to the
Department's discretion whether or not the informa-
844.5
tion contained therein may be conveyed to the Yale
4
pro essor whom you mentioned in your letter.
5
Immigration into Japan.
FEB 4 1936
6
844.55
The basio law operating to prevent the immigrati
工
into Japan of alien laborers is, as you know, Imperial
504/36
Ordinance
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck,
Department of State,
Washington.
2

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
Ordinanoe No. 352, of July 28, 1899, as supplemented
by Department of Home Affairs Ordinance No. 42l, also
of July 28, 1899. These ordinances were issued at
the time of the rendition of the foreign settlements
and were designed primarily to permit the residence
of aliens, except laborers, in districts outside the
former foreign settlements, but in effect the ordinances
also prevent the entry into Japan of alien farmers,
fishermen, miners, etc., for permanent residence. I am
enclosing translations of these two ordinances.
Later, when the practice of using passports arose,
another ordinance was issued by the Department of Home
Affairs, dated January 24, 1918, primarily designed
to require of incoming aliens proper passports and
visas, but also specifying a large class of undasirable
aliens who could in the future be excluded from Japan.
This ordinance also in effect is used to exclude from
Japan aliens whom the locel authorities consider might
be dangerous to the country.
It should be observed that all these ordinances are
couched in general terms, without detailed regulations
restricting their operation; that the power of decision
is delegated to the local governors (in actual practice
to the Chiefs of the Departments of Police Affairs of
the various prefectures); and that there is no provision
for

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
for appeal. In effect, therefore, very wide adminis-
trative powers are given to the local authoritie s, who
use this power to exclude fro. Japan all aliens whom
they consider as ininicul to the best interests of
Japan. The nub of the whole system lies in this
delegation of wide administrative po. rs to the local
authorities. The Government is not burdened with
accusations of discriminatory or overly-strict
immigration laws, cut in effect all aliens whom
工
Japan does not want c'n be and are quietly excluded.
A
This system is employed in other than immigration
cases to operate against aliens in Japan.
For exele,
E1
there is no law or ordinance in Japan prohibiting
N
alien fishermen fron fishin in Japanese territorial
waters. All fishermen are reguired to obtain licenses,
D
however, and according to the frank admission of the
Fisheries Section of the Department of Agriculture
F
and Forestry, such licenses are in practice not
N
0
granted to aliens or alien companies. Conseguently,
C
alien fishermen cannot operate in Japanese territorial
waters, but Japan cannot be accused of having a law
restricting the trade to Japanese.
The entry of Chinese into Japan is governed in
general by the same laws as those governing the entry
of

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
of other aliens, i.e., laborers (which includes farmers)
and undesirable persons mey be excluded. Chinese, however,
are not subject to the passport re ulations. By an agreement
reached many years ago, just after the conclusion of the
Treaty of Com erce and Navigation of l89c, Chinese entering
Japan for residence, trade, travel or employment (so far
as employment is  ermi tted) may do se wit..out passports or
visas, if they are in possession of "show money". Recipro-
cally, the Japanese have the same right in enterine Chine.
After the issuance of the oruinance of l9l8 req irin the
possession of visaed passports by aliens entering Ja an,
this Sino-Japanese immigration agreement was confirmed and
is in effect today. The Embessy nas not been able to secure
a copy of the agreement.
While the Chinese, therefore, have exce tional privileges
in entering Japen, those privileges do not give them excep-
tional rights in regard to the carrying on of occupations
in Japan. Before the rendition of the foreign settlements,
many Chinese painters, printers, tailors, shoemakers, house-
hold servants, etc. carried on their occupations within the
settlements and the mixed residential areas. After the
rendition of the settlements, the Chinese then resident
there were permitted to stay, but the further entry of
Chinese of the laboring classes was prevented or restricted
by

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
by Imperial Ordi nance No. 352 and Ordinance No. 1 of the
Minister for Home Affairs of l9l8.
Alien Land Owners..ip.
The Alien Land Ownersnip Law of April 1, 1925, contains
a clause whereby the ownership of land in the Jepanese Empire
may be pronibited to alions nati nels of countries or sub-
divisions of countries which prolibit land ownership by
Japanese, upon Imperial decree designating those countries
or subdivisicns of countries. As far as the Enbassy is aware,
no such Imperial decree has ever been issued, and the re-
ciprocal prohibi tory clause of the law has therefore never
come into effect. In practice, hovever, aliens purchasing
land in Japan are required to file certificates or affidavits
with the Registrar to the effect thet the countries or sub-
divisions of countries to which they owe allegiance do not
prohibit land ownership by Japanese. The exact reason for
this procedure is not known to the Embassy, but it probably
has some connection with Article 6 of the Law, which provides
for the disposition of land wi thin one year by persons whose
right to hold the land is extinguished by the operation of
the Law. The Embassy does not know of any cases where per-
sons, such as Californians, who would be excluded from
ownership of land should the prohibitory clause be put
into

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
into effect, have tried to acquire land, and therefore
is not in a position to aescribe the actual operation
of the law in such cases.
If the Embassy's inf mnati n is correct, aliens
are not permitted to own lana in China outside the
concessions and settlements esyecially provided for
them. Chinese desiring to purchase land in Japan,
therefore, would come under the prohibitory clause
should that clause be put into effect. If a Chinese
farmer should by some means gain entrance into Japan
and attempt to purchase land for agricultural pur-
poses, he would therefore be b set by difficulties.
In the first place, he would undoubtedly encounter
adninistrative opposition to the transfer of the
land. Should he overcome this and purchase the land,
and be followed by other Chinese farmers, the pro-
hibitory clause would undoubtedly ve invoked and
he would be compelled to dis ose of his land within
one year - a highly unprofitable Iroceeding. Moreover,
he would always be subject to deportation as an
alien laborer who had gained illegal admission.
The Alien Land Ownership Law extends to Korea,
and the same factors which operate in Japan Proper
also operate in Korea.
As

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.97)
-7-
As was stated before, the center of the system
of control of immigration and, to some extent, of
the ownersnip of land, lies in au i.istrative action
GONENNIAL
rather than law, and if sometimes an administrative
action may be somewhat extra-le al, no official in
Japen is liable to be very severely criticized if
he uses his best judement in upholding the welfare
of his country.
Very sincerly yours,
Enclosure:
Translation of Ordinances.

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.99)
Imperial Ordinance No. 352.
We, with the approval of the Privy Council, hereby
sanction and cause to be  romulgated this ordinance per-
teining to the residence of aliens, who by treaty or
usage have not been granted freedom or residence, and
to the engaging in trade by such aliens.
July 28, 1899.
Imperial Sign manual and Privy Seal
Article 1
Aliens who by treaty or usa e nave not been ranted
freedom of residence may reside, change tneir residence,
engage in trade and do other similar acts outside the
former settlements end mixed residential quarters. Alien
laborers, however, are excepted and they may not reside
or engage in labor outside the former settlements or
mixed residential quarters except by special permission
obtained from an administrative official.
Kinds of laborers shall be stipuluted and regula-
tions for the enforcement of this ordinance deter.ined
by the Minister of Home Affairs.
Article 2
Violation of the provisions of the first clause
of the preceding article shall render the offender
liable to a fine of not to exceed one hundred yen.
Additional Rules
Article 3
This ordinance shall be enforced on and after
August 4, 1899.
Article 4
Imperial Ordinance No. 137 of 1894 shall be null
and void from the day of enforcement of the present
ardinance.

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.99)
Home Department Ordinance No. 421.
July 28, 1899.
Regulations for t.e enforcement of Imperial
Ordinance No. 352 of 1899 perta1ling to the residence
of aliens who by treaty or usuge have not been granted
freedom of residence, ana the enguging in trade by
such aliens.
Article 1
The adain strative officials mentioned in rticle
1 of Imperial Ordinance Ho. 352 of 189. shall be the
governors of the several prefectures ( fu and ken) and
the governor of Hokkaido.
Article 2
Laborers mentioned in Article 1 of Imperial
Ordinance No. 352 of 1899 shall be laborers engaged
in agricul ture, rishing, minin, engineering and con-
struction work, manufacturing, transuortation and
other miscellaneous work, exee.t those en aced in
domestic service.
Article 3
If the administrative of.icial deems that such
action is in the interests of the public welfare, he
is authorized to revoke a permit granted to an alien
laborer.

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.94)
YALE UNIVERNTY
DEPARTMIENT OF HISTORY
RECEIVED
NEW HAVEN, CONNECTIC
JUL 23-1936
DIVIBION OF
HGS 241
February 4,1936
Divisio
FAR EASTERN AFFA
Dr.Stanley K H.rnbeck
JUL 2 3 1936
Department of State
Division of rar castern Allairs,Leprtment of State,L.
Lear ir.Hormbeck
am inueutea to you Ior  ur etter o1 the 3lst
of January ana the conliuential enclosure explaining the status
of immigration ano ana-tenure,as acministered by the Japanese
Government.
You may se sure 1 srall regare this ni rmation
in the manner you desire.
With many ths ir yurness,
Samuel F-uso Bemis
L·23 1936
FILED

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.88)
YALE UNIVÍRSITY
DEPARTMENT OF NISTORY
JUL
NEW MAVEN, CONNECTICUT
DIVIBI
Maich 30.193
Division or
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Mm. Horubecda.
JUL 2 3 1936
Department of State
I am retinning to yoe the
Enclosue, whrite core mentroned
the other day ie the Cosmos elnb-
ustu cmams Thartas.
Wu. S.k. Hormbach
Wepartmens d Stat
W0.C
894.55
JL·:83 1936
CPTA

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.98)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, January 10, 1936.
Dear Mr. Hornbeck:
I have received your letter of Dece er 1, 1936,
on the subject of the current enforeetent of the
Japanese laws governing the irmi retion of aliens and
alien land owners ip, with narticular reference to
the immieration of hinese into Ja un nd their rt it
to acquire land, especially agricultural land. The
Eabassy staff has not found time to investigote these
questions thoroughly, but the followint brief renort
is based on such informal and unofficial inquiries
as we have been able to nake, in addition to informa-
tion on file in the mbassy and the Consulate General.
I nave marked certain assages of this letter as
confidential, but I wish to loave it entirely to the
Department's discretion whether or not the informa-
tion contained therein may be conveyed to the Yele
professor whom you mentioned in your letter.
Immigration into Japan.
The basic law operating to revont the immigration
into Japan of alien laborers is, as you know, Imperial
Ordinance
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeok,
Department of State,
Washington.

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
Ordinance No. 352, of July 28, 1899, as supplemented
by Department of Home Affairs Ordinance No. 421, ulso
of July 28, 1899. These ordinances were 1ssued ut
the time of the rendition of the foreien settlements
and were designed primerily to permit the residence
of aliens, except laborers, in districts outside the
former foreign settlements, but in effect the ordinances
also prevent the entry into Ja en of alien farmers,
fishermen, minera, etc., for er unent residence. I en.
enclosing translations of these two or inunces.
Later, when the practice of usins passports arose,
another ordinance was issued by the Lenart ent of ome
Affairs, dated January 24, 1018, primarily designed
to require of incoming aliens proper ussports and
visas, but also snecifying a large class of undesirahle
aliens who could in the future e excluded from Japan.
This ordinance also in effect is used to exclude from
Japan aliens whom the local authorities consider Miglit
be dangerous to the country.
It should be observed that all these ordinances are
couched in general terms, without detailed regulations
restricting their operation; that the powor of decision
1s delegated to the local governors (in actual prectice
to the Chiefs of the Departments of Folioe Affairs of
the various prefeotures), and that there is no provision
for

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.98)
for appeal. Im effeet, therefore, very wide adminis-
trative pewers are given to the local authorities, who
use this power to exelude from Japan all aliens whom
they consider as 1nimieal to the best interests of
Japas. The mub of the mhole systom lies in this
delegation of wide administrative powers to the local
authorities. The Government is not burdened with
accusations of diseriminatory or ovorly-strict
immigration laws, but in effeot all aliens whom
Japan does mot want can be and are quietly exoluded.
This system is employed in other than immigration
cases to operate against aliens in Japan. or example,
there is no law or ordinance in Japan prohibiting
alion fishermen from fishing in Japanese territorial
waters. All fishermen are required to obtain licenses,
however, and according to the frank admission of the
Fisheries segtion of the Department of Agriculture
and Foreatry, such licenses are in practice not
granted to aliens or alien companies. Consequently,
0
aliem fishermen cannot operate in Japanese torritorial
waters, but Japan cannot be acoused of having a law
restrieting the trade to Japanese.
The entry of Chinese into Japan is governed in
gemeral by the same laws as those governing the entry
of

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.98)
of other aliens, 1.e., laborers (whieh ineludes farmers)
and umdesirable persons may be exeluded. Chinese, however,
are not subjeet to the passport regulations. By an agreement
reached meny years ago, just after the conolusion of the
Treaty of Commeree and Navigation of l896, Chinese entering
Japan for residenee, trade, travel or employment (so far
as employment is permitted) may do so without passports or
visas, if they are in possession of "show money". Recipro-
cally, the Japanese have the same right in en tering China.
After the issuance of the ordinance of l918 requiring the
possession of visaed passports by aliens entering Japan,
this Sino-Japanese immigration agreement was confirmed and
is in effeot today. The kmbassy has not been able to socure
a copy of the agreement.
while the Chinese, therefore, have excoptional privileges
1n entering Japan, those privileges do not give them excop-
tional rights in regard to the oarrying on of occupations
in Japan. Before the rendition of the foreign settloments,
many Chinese painters, printers, tailors, shoemakers, house-
hold servants, eto. carried on thcir occupations within the
settlements and the mixed residential areas. After the
rendition of the settlements, the Chinese then resident
there were permitted to stay, but the further entry of
Chimese of the laboring olasses was prevented or restrioted
by

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.97)
-50
by Imperial Ordinanee No. 352 and Ordinance No. 1 of the
Minister for Home Affairs of 1918.
Alien Land Ownerehipe
The Alien Land Owmership Law of .pril 1, 1925, contains
a olause whereby the ownership of land in the Japanese Einpire
may be prohibited to aliens nationals of countries or sub-
divisions of countries whioh prohibit land owmership by
Japanese, upon Imperial decree designating those countries
or subdivisions of countries. As far as the mbassy is aware,
no sueh Imperial decree has ever been issued, and the re-
eiprocel prohibitory clause of the law has therefore never
come into effect. In practice, however, aliens purchasing
land in Japan are required to file cortificates or affidavits
with the Registrar to the effeot that the countries or sub-
divisions of countries to whioh they owe allegianoe do not
prohibit land owmership by Japenese. The exact reason for
this procedure is not known to the Embassy, but it probably
has some conneotion with rticle 6 of the Law, which provides
for the dirposition of land within one ycar by persons whose
right to hold the land is extinguished by the operation of
the Law. The Eibassy does not know of any cases where per-
sons, such as Californians, who would be excluded from
ownership of land should the prohibitory clause be put
1nto

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.97)
inte affeet, have tried to aequire land, and therefore
1s mot in a position te deseribe the actual operation
of the law in suoh oases.
If the Embassy's information is correct, aliens
are not pormitted to om land in China outside the
coneessions and settlements especially provided for
them. Chinese desiring to purchase land in Japan,
therefore, would come under the prohibitory clause
should that olause be put into effect. If a Chinese
farmer should by some means gain entrunce into Japan
and attempt to purchase land for agrioultural pur-
poses, he would therefore be beset by difficulties.
In the first place, he would undoubtedly onoounter
administrative opposition to the transfor of the
land. Should he overoome this and purohase the land,
and be followed by other Chinese farmers, the pro-
hibitory olause would undoubtedly be invoked and
he would be compelled to dispose of his land within
one year - a highly unprofitable proceeding. Moreover,
he would always be subject to deportation as an
alien laborer who had gained illegal admission.
The Alien Land Owmership Law extends to orea,
and the same factors whioh operate in Japan Proper
also operate in Korea.
Ao

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.95)
-7-
As was stated before, the center of the system
of control of immigration and, to some extont, of
the ownership of land, lies in ad inistrutive action
CONTIAL
rather than law, and if sometimes an adninistrative
action y be sonewhat extra-legul, no ofriciel in
Japan is liable to be very sov rely criticized if
he uses his best judement in upholdi, the welfere
of is country.
Very sincerely yours,
(Sined) JOSEH C. GREW
Enclosure:
Translation of Ordinances.

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.98)
Imperial Ordinance No. 352.
We, with the approvel of the rrivy couneil, creby
sanotion and cause to be promulguted this rdinance per-
taining to the residenee of aliens, who by tr aty or
usage have not been granted freedom of residonce, and
to the enga ing in trade by such alions.
July 28, 1899.
Imperial Sign anual und  rivy seal
Article 1
Aliens who by treaty or usage have not been ranted
freedom of residence may reside, change their residence,
ongage in trade and do other similar acts outside the
former settlements and mixed residential quartors. .lien
laborers, however, are excepted and they may not reside
or engage in labor outside the former settlements or
mixed residential quarters except by special  ermission
obtained from an administrative official.
Kinds of laborers shall be stioulated and regula-
tions for the enforcenent of this ordinance letermined
by the  inister of Home ffairs.
Artiole 2
Violation of the provisions of the first clause
of the preceding article shall render the offender
liable to a fine of not to exceed one hundred en.
ndditional ules
Article 3
This ordinanoe shall be enforced on and after
August 4, 1899.
Article 4
Imperial Ordinance No. 137 of 1894 shall be null
and void from the day of enforcement of the present
ordinance.

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.96)
Home Department Ordinance No. 421.
July 28, 1899.
Regulations for the enforceent of Imerial
Ordinance No. 352 of 1899 pertainin to the residence
of aliens who by treaty or usege have not been runted
freedom of residence, and the enga in
 tre by
such aliens.
Article 1
The administr: tive f ici: l entio ec n rticle
1 of Imperial urdinance o. sb2 of l s 11 be the
governors of the several rrefectures ( ru tnd ken) and
the governor of Hokkaido.
rticle 2
Laborers mentioned in rticle 1 of Inverial
ordinance No. 352 of 1839 shall be 1aborers engaged
in agriculture, fishing, minin, en incoring and con-
struction work, manufacturing, tr ns ortation and
other miscellaneous work, excent those en ured i
domestic service.
Article 3
If the administrative official deeis thut such
action is in the interests of the ublic welfare, he
is authorized to revoke a permit ranted to an alien
laborer.

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.97)
LEGAL ADVISER
 THE FOREIGN SERVICE
No.421
RECEIVEL
OF THE
FARTHEL
DEPARTMENT OF ST/
31643946.
1939 MAR I PM 3 04
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
Tokyo, Japen,
February 8, 1939.
SuBJECT: New Japanese Immigration Regulations Announced.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
THE HONORABLE
①
THE SECRETARY OF STAT
4.
WASHINGTON.
7
5
SIR:
5
I have the honor to report that the "Japan Adver-
tiser", local English-language newspaper, quotes the
Japanese "Yomiuri Shimbun" of February 5, 1939, as
authority for the report that new regulations governing
the admission of foreigners into Japan have been approved
by the Ministers for Home and Foreign Affairs and will be
promulgated in the near future for enforcement in May.
The report states that the present regulations have
been in force since l9l8 and consist of only five articles.
At the present time, however, between 30,000 and 40,000
foreigners are said to come annually to Japan either to
reside or to visit, and the foreign resident population
is now estimated at about 30,000, including 14,000
Chinese. Under these circumstanoes, the regulations had
become obsolete and a complete revision was seen to be
necessary.
The
iM/HM
11

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
The new regulations are reported to consist of
twenty articles and to provide for entrance and tourist
fees and for heavier penalties for violations. Whereas
foreigners are now required to register with the police
only after 90 days residence in Japan, the new regula-
tions will necessitate registration at the end of 30 deys,
a second registration after 60 days, and annual registra-
tion thereafter. Penalties for failure to comply with
this requirement are said to include penal servitude or
imprisonment for not exceeding three months, a fine not
to exceed lo0 yen, and possible deportation.
Under the new rules it is stated that foreigners
suspected of immorality, communism, or espionage may be
expelled more summarily then is now the case, although
better protection will be afforded those foreigners
whose presence in Japan is considered desirable.
The report indicates that a fee of 20 yen will be
charged for "entrance" into Japen and that a fee of
10 yen will be imposed on travelers "passing through".
It is not clear from the newspaper account whether
tourists will be required to pay both fees.
Upon the promulgation of the new regulations a
report will be promptly submitted.
Respectfully yours,
2.R. Conmerow
1
C. R. Cameron,
File No. 855
American Consul General.
TAH/mk
Distribution:
Original and 3 copies to Department

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.96)
NY OF STATE
April 18, 1939.
ssereace, marked portion
ttem herounder.
Hew about giving consideration
te the question of some possible
action
retaliation in kind.
Stanley K. Hornbeok
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
AFR 12 1939
PA/H:SKH:ZMK
Department of Stats

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.96)
APR 26 1939
BEOMIVED
Apr11 22, 1930
APR 26 1939
the attached press reporh
of bills, known as Home Orrice
No. 6, has been drawn up for the 
of preventing the entry into Japan of
not sympathetio with Japan's polioy in
According to this report, under the
ovisioms of these bills foreigners residing
m Japam will be under the obligation of obtair
m sertificates from the police in order to
intain residence and all foreign tourists
ill have to register with the police. It is
further stated in the report that foreigners
residing in Japan regard the proposed restric-
sions as merely a formal codification of what
hes long been in existence and that any for-
igmer living in Japan is continually subject
 police interrogation, to police inspection,
and to an amazing amount of community interest
in his affairs.
It has been suggested that consideration
be given to the question of some possible ao-
tion of "retaliation in kind".
"retaliation in kind" would be inadvisab-
imgly irritating and inconvenient to
The first country to come to mind is
the

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
the Soviet Union. Some of the European total-
itarian countries also have in force measures
which are irritating to Americans travelers
and residents. If retaliatory measures were
adopted against Japanese traveling or resid-
ing in the United States because of the meas-
ures under reference in effect in Japan, it
would seem that similar measures would for
the sake of fairness need to be adopted with
regard to nationals of those European coun-
tries which have restrictions troublesome to
Americans. (2) It is probable that the irri-
tating and troublesome phases of the measures
under reference do not mean that Americans
traveling or residing in Japan are going to
have to submit to any fresh inconveniences as
it is thought, as the press report states,
that the new measures are primarily a codi-
fication of what has for some time been a
practice in Japan. (3) In view of the fact
that Japan is in fact at war, the measures
do not seem especially unreasonable. As
usual, it is presumably the manner in which
they are administered that is exasperating.
(4) Broadly speaking, it would seem that,
quite apart from considerations of the prob-
able impracticability of evolving suitable
and effective measures, "retaliation in kind"
by this Government wouid not be in keeping
with the principles of political freedom for
which we stand. The programs and policies
of authoritarian governments, fearful of dis-
sentient political opinion, are in general
characterized

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-3-
characterized by acts along lines similar to
the action contemplated by the Japanese
Government. The contemplated action by the
Japanese Government does not seem to be of
sufficient importance, either in principle
or in fact, to warrant this Government's
taking retaliatory measures which might be
construed as compromising our principles of
political freedom.
Home Office Ordinance No. 6 referred to
in the above-mentioned press report was re-
ported on by the Consulate General at Tokyo
In its report no. 49 of March 3, 1939, at-
tached hereto. The Consulate General reports
that the ordinance was promulgated March 1,
1939, and will become effective on May 1, 1939;
that, under the ordinance, all foreigners
(40,ó00) must apply for permission to remain
in Japan; that each foreigner, in addition,
must notify the police of his district of his
presence; that a foreigner who, after staying
more than sixty days, desires to leave Japan
must notify the police of his district of his
intention, and the like.
According to the experience of officers
in FE who have served in Japan many of the
restrictions provided for in the ordinance
under reference have been in force for some
years, such as those relating to residence
certificates, categories of persons to be
denied admission to Japan, and the supplying
by hotel proprietors to the police of infor-
mation regarding foreigners residing in their
hotels.
一y.m./894.55/16
FE:Salisbury:JPS

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.91)
LEGAL ADVISER
Voluntary
MAR1939
DERMRTMENT OF STA
buft
27326
welt
t/A/37-d
A
No. 49
PROLULGATTON OF NEN JNESE ILL IOR.TION.
REGULATIONS
Thomar Q. Idichsl
From merican Consul
Thomas . Hickok
Date of Completion: Larch 3, 1939.
Tokyo Consulate General
Date of Moilin":
March 3, 1939.
Comeron
Approved:
C. R. Cameron,
American Ccnsul General.
MIR
HOMNBECK
APR 261939
Enclosure:
Translation of Ordinance
File No. 811.11
TAH/mk
Distribai:10 b  C
Original and 4 copies to Department
1 copy to Embassy, Tokyo.

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Promulgation of Now Japanese Immigration Regulations.
Reference is made to this Consulate General's
despatoh No. 421 of February 8, 1939  quoting a news-
paper report to the effect that new Japanese immigration
regulations had been approved and would soon be promul-
gated for enforcement in May, 1939. In this conneotion,
Home Office 1939 Ordinance No. 6, signed by both the
Home Minister and the Foreign Minister, was promulga-
ted in the Official Gazette of March 1, 1939, and its
provisions concerning the admission into, residence
in, and departure from Japan of foreigners will become
effective on May 1, 1939.
According to this Ordinance, all foreigners resid-
ing in Japan must within ten days from May 1, 1939,
apply for permission to remain. It is estimated that
approximately forty thousand foreign residents are
affected by this provision. Applications must be
made to the various prefectural governors except in
Tokyo where they will be made to the head of the
Metropolitan Police Board. Permission to remain will
be valid for one year and must be renewed annually.
A fee of ten yen will be charged for each such per-
mission to nationals of countries which charge simi-
lar fees to Japanese residents and failure to apply
for permission makes foreigners subject to deporta-
tion and a fine of not to exceed fifty yen.
A

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
A further provision of the new ordinance requires
that each foreign resident shall, in addition to
applying for permission to remain, notify the police
station in the district, in which he resides of his
presence within fifty days after May 1, 1939. Failure
to do this is also punishable by a fine.
Residence certificates may if desired be supplied
to foreigners upon presentation of a recent photograph
and payment of fifty sen.
The Ordinance lists six categories of persons
who shall be denied admission to Japan and designates
two types of visas which may be granted. For persons
desiring to remain in the country for fifteen or more
days, a visa for "entry into" Japan will be issued.
Persons desiring to remain for less than fifteen days
will receive vises for "passing through".
The Ordinance is not clear as to whether fees will
be charged for these visas in the case of persons pro-
perly equipped with travel documents and otherwise
eligible to admission. Article 15 states that a for-
eigner receiving "special" permission to enter shall
pay a fee of twenty yen and that for "special" permis-
sion to pass through Japan, a fee of ten yen will be
charged. "Special permission" apparently refers to
those travelers who seek admission without a document
of the kind speciried in the second article. Attempts
to obtain a ruling concerning fees for ordinary visas
have

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
have proved unsuccessful, officials stating that
regulations under the new Ordinance have yet tc be
promulgated.
Hotel proprietors and others who provide living
quarters for foreigners must within twelve hours of
the arrival in their establishments of a foreigner
provide the police with information concerning the
latter's name, nationality, residence, age, vocation,
place of landing, destination, and time of registering.
Provision is made in the Ordinance for supplying
"travel certificates" valid for six months to foreigners
sojourning in Japan who are unable to obtain passports,
nationality certificates, or euivalent documents.
These "travel certificates" will be good only fcr
travel in China and "Manchukuo" and will cost twenty
yen.
The seventeenth article of the Ordinance stipu-
lates that a foreigner who, after staying more than
sixty days, desires to leave Japan must notify the
police station in his district of his intention.
Five categories of persons are listed who may
be summarily deported by the prefectural governors.
Penalties for evasion or failure tc comply with the
provisions of the Ordinance range from a fine of
fifty yen through deportation to imprisonment, with
or without hard labor, for not to exceed three
months.
The

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
The previous ordinance governing the admission
of foreigners and dating from l918, is repealed by
the present one.
An English translation of the new Ordinance,
as it appeared in the "Japan Advertiser" of March 2,
l939, is transmitted as an enclosure to this report.
nclosure:
Translation of Ordinance
File No. 8ll.ll
TAH/mk
Distribution:
Original and 3 copies to Department

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.99)
Enolosure to Report No. 49, dated Maroh 2, 1939,
from Amerioan Consulate General, Tokyo, Japan.
CONCERNING ENTRY INTO, SOJOURN IN AND DEPARTURE
FROM JAPAN OF FOREIGNERS.
Artiole 1. In the present ordinance "entry into"
is confined to cases where foreigners sojourn in
Japan for 15 days or more, and "passing through" Japan
means staying in the country less than 15 days.
Article 2. A foreigner coming to Japan falling
under any of the following categories shall be pro-
hibited by the local governor (superintendent of the
Metropolitan Folice Board in the case of Tokyo Pre-
fecture, this provision to hold throughout the ordin-
ance) from entering or passing through Japan:
1. A foreigner not possessing a passport,
nationality certificate or eouivalent certi-
ficate.
2. A foreigner who is liable to act contrary
to the interests of the Empire or to further
the interests of an enemy country.
3. A foreigner who is liable to disturb public
peace or derange public morals.
4. A foreigner suffering from an infectious
dises or from any disease dangerous to public
health.
5. A foreigner without full possession of his
facultie: with a subnormal frailty of mind,
in a stat: of dire poverty or otherwise liable
to require the aid of others.
6. A foreigner violating the stipulation in
Paragraph 2 of Article 5.
The passport, nationality certificate or any
certificate equivalent to the same stated above
shall be confined to such as has pasted on it a photo-
graph of the person concerned, such as has been
issued by the Government authorities of the country of
which the person concerned is a national or by other
authorities specified by international usage and such
as has been visaed by a Japanese Ambassador, Minister
or consular official abroad within a year prior to
the landing of the person on Japanese soil, or sea
passage certificate issued by the same.
The

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
The visa shall be an entry visa or a passage
visa. A passage visa shall be good for one and only
one occasion.
Artiole 3. A foreigner landing on Japanese
soil by aircraft who falls under any of the specifi-
3
cations in Paragraph 1 of the preceding article shall
be ordered by the local governor to alight and to
depart by the earliest aircraft or ship leaving Japan.
Artiole 4. In regard to a national of a country
which does not require the presentation by a Japanese
subject of a passport, a nationality certificate or a
certificate equivalent thereto in entering the said
country, the first stipulation under Paragraph 1 of
Article 2 may be waived in his favor, while in regard
to a national of a country which does not reguire the visa
of the authorities of the said country on the passport,
nationality certificate or certificate equivalent there-
to of a Japanese subject, the stipulation in Paragraph 2
of the same article may be waived in his favor.
Artiole 5. A foreigner coming to Japan shall not
enter or pass through Japan until after inspection by
a police officer at the port of entry. The same ruling
applies in the case of arrival by aircraft.
In the inspection stipulated in the preceding
paragraph, the foreigner concerned shall enter the facts
required on Form No. 1 appended to the present ordin-
ance, shall sign the said form, shall present, on demand
by the said police officer, his passport and other
necessary papers and shall answer truthfully the nece-
ssary questions.
Article 6. In case a foreigner has not in his
possession a prima facie passport, nationality certificate
or certificate eruivalent thereto but has legitimate
reasons for not possessing the same, the local governor
concerned may permit the entry or passage of the said
foreigner.
A foreigner in the fifth category of paragraph 1
of Article 2, if he has a reliable attendant or another
person vouching for his care during his term of sojourn
and to the local Governor deems it proper, may be per-
mitted to enter or pass through the country by special
permission.
A foreigner applying for this special permission
shall write out Form No. 2 appended to the present
ordinance and present it to the governor of the pre-
fecture where he is landing.
A

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3-
A local governor giving to a foreigner the special
permission stipulated in Paragraph 1 or Paragraph 2
shall issue a special permission certificate or a
special passage permission certificate in accordance
with Form 3 appended to the present ordinance. If the
foreigner possesses a passport or any other kind of cer-
tificate, the local governor shall stamp a mark on it
signifying special entry permission or special passage
permission in accordance with Form No. 4 appended to
the present ordinance.
A foreigner passing through Japan who seeks
"entry" shall be given special permission by the local
governor in aocordance with the stipulations of Para-
graph 1 or Paragraph 2 above.
Article 7. a foreigner passing through Japan
shall not sojourn more than 15 days.
A foreigner entering the country and seeking to
sojourn for more than 30 days shall apply to the gover-
nor of the prefecture in which he has landed or in
which he is actually sojourning for permission, in
accordance with Form No. 5 appended to the present
ordinance, within l0 days after landing.
A foreigner seeking to stay after the expiry of
the term of sojourn shall apply to the governor of the
prefecture in which he is living or is staying for per-
mission, in accordance with Form 6 appended to the
present ordinance, within 10 days before the expiry
of the said term.
The permission tc sojourn or to extend the term
of sojourn shall not exceed one year.
Article 8. A person who in his business quarters
a foreigner shall inform the captain of the police
station under whose jurisdiction his establishment
lies, within 12 hours after taking in the said for-
eigner, of the following:
1.
Name
2.
Nationality
3.
Residence
4.
Age
5.
Vocation
6.
Place of landing
7.
Place at whioh the foreigner stayed
the previous night
8.
Place of destination
9.
Time of registering
The

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.99)
The said notifioation may be made to a police box
of the said station or to a policeman making his rounds.
A foreigner quartered at an establishment shall,
on demand of the proprietor, manager or person acting
for the same, state the items stipulated in Paragraph 1
or write down the same on a form supplied by the
establishment.
Article 9. A foreigner sojourning for longer
than 60 days shall notify the captain of the police
station under whose jurisdiction lies his place of
residence the items contained in Form 7 appended to
the present ordinance within 50 days after landing.
A foreigner under the age of 15 shall be exempt
from the above provision.
In case any change occurs in the items notified,
the said change shall be notified to the police station
within 10 days after the date of the said change.
Article 10. The captain of a police station shall
compile a register of foreign residents and enter the
notified items stated in the preceding article.
A person seeking to look at the register of for-
eign residents shall pay a fee of 20 sen.
Article ll. A foreigner who has made notifica-
tion of residence may, by presenting to the police sta-
tion concerned a photograph of himself taken within the
last six months (front view, bust, bareheaded, 4.5 by
six centimeters and not pasted on board), obtain a
residence certificate.
A foreigner seeking to obtain the said certificate
shall pay a fee of 50 sen for each copy.
Article 12. In case a foreigner who has made the
notirication stipulated in Article 9 but who is unable
to obtain a passport, nationality certificate or a
certificate equivalent thereto, wishes to travel in
Manchukuo or China, the said foreigner shall apply to
the captain of the police station under whose juris-
diction lies his place of residence for a travel certi-
ficate in accordance with Form 9 appended to the present
ordinance.
A travel certificate shall be good for six months
from the date of issue.
A foreigner receiving a travel certificate shall
pay a fee of 20 a copy.

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.96)
- 5 -
A foreigner in possession of a travel certificate
who has secured the visa of a Japanese ambessudor,
Minister or consu! in Manchukuo or Chir: and who has
returned te Joan within the seriod durin. which the
certificate is cood shall be exempt fro:. clus: ifica-
tion in the first catepory under lura ran  o rticie .
article 13.  forei. seaman temper ril 1 ndi.
in a city, town or villare orf whicr his shi, is ut
anchor and returnin? to the suid ship shall be exenpt
from classification in the rirst caterory of  rarraph 1
of Artic e 2.
article 14. r rei mer on bein puestioned L
police  rficer in reurd to items in  ra rapn 1 of
article &, notification under Artic e 9 or other neces-
sary matters shall answer truthfully.
. roreiner curryin a passport, nationality certi-
ficate, seaman's notebook or ny ecuivulent certiricate
shall present it on demnd by velice orficer.
article l5. . forei ner receivin special permission
to enter shallay fee cr c, und  roreiener receivin
special bermission to pass throu h shall pay a ree or lo.
. foreiner receivin scjourn ermission or pro-
longation or sojourn permission shall vay a fee or vlo.
a national of a count ry whic does not impose a similar
fee on a Japanose subject shall be exempt frem the said
payment.
The two preceding urticles shall not apply tc a
foreigner under the a e of 15 or  foreigner entering
or passine through because cf some n tural disaster or
other inevitable cause.
Article 16. The fees stipulated in articles 10,
11 and 12 shall be paid in revenue stamps.
Article 17. . foreigner staying more than 60 days
who wishes to leave Japan shall make notification thereof
to the captain of the police stution under vhose juris-
diction lies his place of residence.
A local governor may prohibit the entry or passage
of a foreigner violating the stipulation of the preceding
paragraph.
Article 18. The locul governor may order the depor-
tation of a foreigner falling under any of the following
specifications:
1. A foreigner falling under any of the specifica-
tions of Paragraph 1 of Article 2.
2.

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.97)
- 6 -
2. A foreigner using a passport, nationality
certificate r equivalent certificute on
which uppears the name o: anothe" erson.
3.  foreigner whe has outained the vin 
his passport, n.tionelity certificate  r e ui-
vulent certiricute by rraudulent means.
4. A foreigner violatine rararraph 1 of
Article 5.
5. a Poreigmer stayin in Ju: an without
obtaining the permission stipulated in  ri-
graph 2 or Paragraph 3 or article 7.
Article 19. A foreigner violatin rura raph 2
of article 5, Paracraphs 1-3 of article 7, rticle 8,
Article 9 or article 14 shall be liable to : fine of
not more than ¥50, police detention or a petty fine.
Article 20. . forei ner rillin under any of
the following speci icotions shall be liable to
imprisonment of not more than three months with or
without hard labor or a fine or not more than ¥lo0:
1. A foreigner violatin the deportation
order of a local rovernor.
2. a foreigner falling under the second third
and fourth, specifications of article 15.
supplementary Rule:
The present ordinance shall take effect as from
May 1, 1939. In enforcement of it, the dute .f noti-
fication under articles 7 and 9 shall be counted
from the date of enforcement or the present ordinance
as regards foreigners actually residin: in Imperial
territory.
The January, 1918, Home Office Ordinance No. 1,
concerning entry of foreigners, shall be abolished.

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.55/17
894.111/77
SEE
FOR.....Despatch.#3825
FROM .Japan
Grew
) DATED.Apr1112.1939
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
New Japanese regulations governing the entry, sojourn
and dephrture of aliens.
hm
93

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.
SEE
894.111/78
FOR
Note #106
~7
FROM _Japanese Enbassy
) DATED
May 11, 1939
3
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Regulations governing residence, trade and travel; Japan.
Copy of an English translation of the Home Department Or-
dinance No. 6 concerning the Entry, So journ and Departure
of Foreign rs, and a copy of Revision of the Ordinance
concerning the Entry of Foreigners submitted.

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.92)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
Co
Desnatch #3868
894.111/79
FOR
SEE
6
4
5
FROM
Japan
Grew
) DATEDMaY6,1939
5
NAME
1-1127
TO
)
Transmission of translation of Orairance relating
REGARDING:
to alien's entry, so journ ene departure, - Japan.
hm

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.55/20
SEE
894.111/81
FOR
Des.#3969
FROM
Jap an
Dooman
DATEDJune19.1939
TO
NAME
1-1127
20
REGARDING:
Transmis ion of translation of ordinance revising
ordinance relating to alien's entry, sojourn and
departure.
FILED
rl s
JUL12 1990
iM/RL
S
