894.611 Agriculture., Japan, Soil. Properties. Tillage., October 21, 1949 - November 7, 1949 (File 1777)
ID: 894.611-1777   Pages: 2   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.611-agriculture-japan-soil
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
2 PARK AVENUE
NEW YORK 16, N. Y.
MURRAY HILL 3-6810

UNITED STATES DELEGATION
TO THE
GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE UNITED NATIONS

November 7, 1949

MEMORANDUM FOR MR. JESSUP

I spoke to John Allison about the question of land reform in Japan and he gave me the attached copy of MacArthur's letter to Yoshida on the subject. He also said that FE had written our Political Adviser in Tokyo supporting this position and instructed him to do whatever is possible to see that it is carried out. Allison said, however, that the post treaty controls over the Japanese Government contemplated in the present draft of the Japanese Peace Treaty did not give us any means of intervening on this matter after the conclusion of the Treaty other than through ordinary diplomatic representations.

CWY:MTB

894 611/11-749

=== Page 2 === (confidence 1.00)
Copied from NIPPON TIMES
Tokyo, Saturday, Oct. 22, 1949

COPY

October 21, 1949

Dear Mr. Prime Minister:

Today marks the third anniversary of the inception of what is possibly the most successful land reform program in history. Three years ago today, the Japanese Diet enacted the historic legislation which forms the foundation of this reform. Now that the primary of the program is drawing to a close, I take this occasion to pay tribute to the people of rural Japan for the magnificent accomplishment which their devotion to this task has made possible.

The world watched your work skeptically, in belief that the job was too big, that you would not approach it with sincerity, that feudalistic interests would render it only a token reform. Your progress shows no deviation from the high objective enunciated, and today you have earned the world's admiration. The pattern you have set for depressed peoples is already widely recognized. As Japan works toward re-entry into the family of nations, this achievement stands as one of the most important single demonstrations of her approaching maturity as a democratic nation.

The time has come now to appraise what has been done and what remains to be done, and to measure and define the nature of the obligation which rests with the people of Japan to keep faith with future generations of Japanese farmers. The benefits of the reform must become a permanent part of the texture of Japanese rural society. Any possibility of a gradual reversion to the land tenure system as it existed before the reform must be forestalled. Widespread establishment of owner-farmers on family-size farms and protection of the rights of cultivators must continue to be assured. Land reform laws must have teeth and toughness. They must be given adequate administrative support. Assurance of democratic application of the law at the local level must be guaranteed by continuance of a suitable commission system.

All of these factors are important. But if the present gains are not to be lost, the most essential requirement will be constant and continuing vigilance on the part of Japanese farmers in defense of their own rights. This is the basic privilege and obligation of citizenship. It is a right and responsibility to be held in trust, to be used boldly now with justice and wisdom, and to be passed intact from generation to generation. The future of Japan is in the hands of the people of Japan. The future of the land reform program will constitute a critical test of their capacity to meet the challenge of citizenship.

Sincerely yours,
DOUGLAS MacARTHUR
