894.91 Japan, Public Press., March 7, 1930 - October 11, 1934 (File 832)
ID: 894.91-832   Pages: 51   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.91-japan-public-press-4
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.90)
①
AE
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, Maroh 7, 1930.
Instruction o Thyo
No. 55.
May 1f
1L
Divisionof
193
a
AH EASTERN AFFAIRS
8 030
Deoartment of State
E9.C.
894.
Cifyiu + E
894.91
c
t
MAY 19193
The Honorable
ILED
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to transmit herewith a report
1/. entitled, "The Japanese Press," prepared by a member
of my staff.
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your opedient servant,
5.K.
asll
nclesure:
1. As stated.
W. R. Castle, Jr.

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
holosure No.
55
Daepateh Yo.
From American Embassy
THE JAPANESE PRESS
Tokyo.
HISTORICAL SKETCH OF THE JAPANESE PRESS.
Before the gates of her self-contained islands were
opened to foreign intercourse, Japan, as a hermit
country governed despotically by a jealous shogunate, had
little use for a press. Interests were purely local,
and news from abroad striotly banned by government
authorities, who even to this date regard with disquietude
the uncontrolled dissemination of news of world events.
With the exception in Yedo (now Tokyo) of occasional
sheets crudely struck off from wood blooks and containing
the latest scandal of the town and happenings at the
Shogun's court, which were hawked about on the streets,
the chief source of information was gossip of the streets
and, more particularly, of the nightless city, where the
sooial life of the capital centered. Moreover, the
masses, on whose support the press depends for its power
and influence throughout the world, were largely illiterate,
education being restricted to the samurai class and to the
more sophistioated burghers.
Modern journalism in Japan had its origin in English
language papers published in the treaty ports by foreign
journalists, such as the Herald and Gazette in Yokohama
and the Hyogo News in Kobe, to which Japanese interested
in world events looked for information. An Englishman,
John Blaok, is commonly pointed to as the founder of
Japanese journalism, at least by British students of
Japanese press history. His "Nisshin Shinjishi," started
in 1871, was the first newspaper worthy of the name,
according to Chamberlain,* and was the first to give
leading
*Chamberlain's "Things Japanese."

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
leading articles and to comment seriously on political
affairs.
The seed once sown, Japanese journalism grew apace.
At first newspapers were purely organs for the dissemina-
tion of news, with little concern in political matters,
but as interest grew in the movement for the extension of
popular rigits, the press was recognized by leaders of
the movement to be an ideal organ for the expression of
their political ideas. Once seized upon by the political
leaders, the press soon became the chief exponent of
political reform, and consequently its principal activity
consisted of attacks on the Government.
Belaboring the Government has been the sport dearest
to the heart of all journalists since early Meiji days,
and to the critical leadership of the press is undoubtedly
attributaule much of the political reform of the past half
century. It was during these early days of political
agitation that the great newspapers of the present day
were founded, notably the Tokyo Nichinichi, Hochi, Jiji,
Chugai, and Asahi, and the Osaka Mainichi and Asahi,* and
their origins were bound up with the beginnings of con-
stitutional government and parliamentary representation.
Until the Imperial Diet was established in 1890, the
political character of the press was dominant, but after
the establiahment of this arena of forensic struggle, the
press began to appreciate the importance of newsgathering
and gradually to take on the character of newspapers of
the West.
*Data on the ohief newspapers of Japan
SALIENT
may be found in the appendix.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
SALIENT FEATURES OF THE JAPANESE PRESS
(1)
Distribution.
From the standpoint of distribution, Japan canbe
divided into two spheres of influence. The eastern half
is under the domination of the great Tokyo dailies, while
the western half is under the influence of two Osaka
newspapers. Outside of these two cities there are no
newspapers of national scope, chiefly because of geographic
reasons. Since practically any part of the main island of
Japan can be reached in less than twelve hours from one of
these two cities, the ten or more great metropolitan
dailies are distributed to the remotest corners of the
Empire with news that is not too old to be of interest.
Consequently, the great dailies of the cities have flourished
at the expense of local newspapers, which have been compelled
to confine their scope to matters of local interest.
Residents of outlying districts read their local journals
in order to understand purely local affairs, but find it
indispensaule to subscribe to one of the metropolitan news-
papers in order to keep abreast of the times.
To make the life of local newspapers still more pre-
carious, the metropolitan newspapers issue what is called
the local supplement, whioh is delivered with the main issue
and which deals exolusively with local affairs. For example,
the Osaka Mainiohi issues twenty-five different supplements
in various looalities of the country.
(2)
Ciroulation.
The exaot, or even the approximate, ciroulation of
Japanese periodicals is difficult to estimate, inasmuch
as it is the practice of Japanese papers to keep the mumber
of

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
of copies issued a secret. However, it comes as a
surprise to newspaper readers of the West, whose favorite
paper may modestly confess to being "The greatest paper
on earth" or claim some record in circulation, to learn
that there are at least two newspapers in Japan, the
Osaka Mainichi and the Osaka Asahi, whose claimed daily
circulation is over 1,b00,000 and whose actual circula-
tion is perhaps one quarter less than claimed. Probably
there is no larger newspaper in the world than the Asahi,
Irom the stanapoint of circulation.
(3)
) Composition.
Compared with the mammoth newspapers of America,
Japanese newspapers have but few pages. Even the largest
newspapers do not exceed as a rule ten or twelve pages,
consisting of eight pages of general news and two or
four pages of local news in the morning editions and
four pages in the evening issues.
From forty to fifty-five per cent of the total
space in these pages is occupied by advertisements, de-
pending on the popularity of the publication with ad-
vertisers. A surprisingly large amount of space is
taken up by advertisements of magazines and books, which
ocoupy perhaps fifty per cent of the total and testify
to the voracious appetites of Japanese readers. Oocupy-
ing second place in point of space are advertisements of
toilet goods, followed by advertisements of various
nostrums and medicines, which often make audacious and
irresponsible claims of ourative efficacy. Other ad-
vertisements, inoluding "want ads" make up the remainder
of the spaoe.
The

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
The standard newspaper sheet has thirteen vertical
columns of one hundred fifty-six lines. Each line has
rifteen letters, or ideographs. All these characters
ust be set by hand, as there are far too many to be
set by mechanical typesetters. Owing to this handicap,
the staff of a Japanese newspaper is several times
larger than that of an English language equivalent, re-
sulting in a high cost of production.
(4)
Ethics of the Press.
er
Reports and pressmen in Japan, in spite of their
connection with the profession of letters, have rather
an unsavory reputation. Provided the dignity of the
Imperial family or government is not involved, official-
dom pays but little attention to the violent exaggera-
tions, deliberate misstatements and scurrilous personalities
that appear in even the most respectable newspapers.
Opinions are attributed to persons who have not been inter-
viewed, words are falsely put into the mouths of persons
of prominence, and scandal is deliberately manufactured.
The laxness of the laws of libel in Japan makes the reporter
an object of fear and propitiation. No person, not ex-
cepting officials, is safe from blackmail, and it is not
uncommon for wealthy persons to pay toll, under the guise
of contributing to sooial welfare, to reporters in order
to prevent their names from being besmirohed.
Even the all-powerful police are said to fear re-
portera and are said to make agreements with pressmen
whereby newspapers are accorded proteoti on and exemption,
provided ofricial dereliotions are not exposed. Japanese
journalimm features, in what is called the "third page,"
Bocial

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.98)
-6 -
social scandals of all kinds, duly magnified and dressed
up under glaring scare headlines. Even such respectable
papers as the Jiji and Asahi form no exception to the
general rule, because the questionable taste of the read-
ing public demands this sort of news, and any journal
that elects to set a better moral standard is bound to
suffer in its circulation. Suoh licensed blackguardism
is particularly disastrous in Japan, where the reading
public, generally speaking, lacks the power of discrimina-
tion and is apt to swallow wholesale whatever is printed.
(5)
Extra-journalistic Activities.
Sentiment in Japan has not forced much feeling of
responsibility toward the public on the possessors of
great wealth, ana consequently there are few great
foundations or bequests to further worthy causes, com-
parable with the many institutions of this kind in the
United States. To fill the need of some such unofficial
and wealthy organization, the great newspapers of Japan have
shown considerable interest in conducting activities which
contribute to publio welfare. These activities have been
conduoted, of course, with one eye to gaining subsoriptions,
but due credit must be given for their actual value to
sooiety.
The health education campaign of the Osaka Mainichi
and the Tokyo Asahi, the "efficienoy" campaign, and the
organization of the international athletio meets of the
Kokumin, the art exhibits of the Yomiur1, the contribution
of Yen 500,000 to a social welfare organization, the
pioneering exploits in aviation, and the stimulation of
interest

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
interest in sports by the invitation to Japan of inter-
nationally known athletes by the Asahi, and the support of
a charity clinic by the Hochi are examples of worthy con-
triuutions to society made by Japanese newspapers.
INFLUENCE OF THE PRESS.
It is the reaction of the masses to news of the
world as represented in the columns of the daily papers
and to special articles and reports of interviews with
persons of importance in the political and business
world that constitutes public opinion at present in
Japan. Universal public school education makes it common
for even the lowliest coolie to read his newspaper and to
take some interest in public affairs. During the past few
years all the important papers of the country have daily
been delivered to the Emperor's study, in striking con-
trast to the seolusion from mundane affairs forced on
former rulers.
A press enjoying the circulation of that of Japan can-
not but wield tremendous power, and on the whole its in-
fluense is being used to promote progressive policies.
Any observer of trends in Japan is impressed with the
progress of demooratic ideas, in whioh the press is un-
doubtedly the leading influence. As the press becomes more
popular with the masses it is foroed, by business oonsidera-
tions, to cater to vulgar taste, so that there are oritios
who believe that although the Japanese press has grown much
bigger in recent years it has not, in matters of taste,
grown proportionately better. The editorials appearing in
even the most powerful papers seem to have retrograded in
charaoter

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
-8 -
character since the early days of the crusade for
political reform. Once the most influential and positive
feature of Japanese newspapers, the editorial column at
present seems usually content to approach political af-
fai s from a theoretical and abstract viewpoint and to
take an academie
attitude in political discussion,
sounding more like textbooks than press opinions. Few
of the dailies are committed to any cefinite program or
policy, and the editorial columns are not written by
any one person but by a number of staff writers, who oan
haraly be expected to nold uniform views on questions of
the day. Often men of small political influence or
literary distinction, they are poorly paid in comparison
with their counterparts in American newspapers and in
consideration of the financial power of the paper employ-
ing them. However, this decline in importance of the
editorial column is not a phenomenon peculiar to Japan
but one equally observable in the United States and Europe.
Foreign observers usually think of the Japanese press
as one which continuously nags at the Government with
perhaps no further object in view than playing to the
gallery and gaining subsoriptions, but Japanese students of
journalism like to believe that the attitude of the press
grows from its independence from party affiliations and
idealistic point of view. A peculiar feature of the
Japanese press and one which explains to some extent the
non-partisan attitude of its editorials is that practically
none of the more influential metropolitan dailies maintain
any direot connection with political parties or aot as
politioal organs. Japanese political parties display more
devotion

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
- 9 -
devotion to opportunism than interest in carrying out
a coherent and definite program, and unless a newspaper
definitely belongs to a party leader it would have no
partioular object in backing a party. There being much
to be desired in the conduct of any particular govern-
ment, it is always subject to adverse press criticism,
so that the press always finas itself ranged on the
side of the opposition, however favorable it may have
been to the Government at the time of its inauguration
or how bitterly it may have called for the downfall of
the previous Government.
On the whole, the press is more favorable toward
the Minseito because of the progressive and liberal
attitude of this party than to the Seiyukai with its
tradition of conservatism and adherence to bureaucratic
centralization. Since the Minseito has been thus far
generally the party of opposition, the press usually finds
itself allied with this party in attaoking the Seiyukai.
Whatever its shortcomings, the lack of any other
leadership leaves the press in the position of most influ-
ence in moulding public opinion, and the great influence
the press exerts today is more potent to shape government
polioy than are the stands of the political parties. To
quote from Fisher,* "When international problems arise,
it is more narrowly patriotio than the national press of
England and America, yet it has more than once rebuked
the chauvinists and cheered the liberal foroes. This has
been true of a number of the great journals, for example,
in their oriticism of interference in China and Siberia,
in their demand for reduotion of the army as well as of
the
*Galen M. Fisher, "Creative Foroes in Japan."

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
- 10 -
the navy, in their advocaoy of appointing civilians
instead of military men to govern the colonies, and
in their (belated) denunciation of oppression in Korea.
And on domestic issues they are practically all aligned
against the reactionaries
They have gitated
for the extension of the suffrage, for the ending of
police persecution of labor unions, ana for freedom of
discussion even of 'dangerous thoughts,' like socialism,
syndicalism, and democracy, which are anathema to stand-
patters ana militarists."
Generally speaking, public opinion has not played
the important part in Japanese political life that it
has in the democracies of the iest, but the press is
undoubtedly an important agent for developing and con-
solidatinc puolic opinion and consequently p aying a
part of increasing significance in the conduct of
political policies. A generation ago the bureauoracy
ignored the press, except to issue orders for suppression
when some paper became particularly vituperative, but
today no political leader can afford to ignore the ad-
vice and opinion of the press.
There are instances which go to show that the
Japanese press is beginning to realize its strength and
responsibility for leadership. During the Tanaka Govern-
ment the Tokyo Asahi refused, on one oocasion, to retract
an article referring to Premier Tanaka's statements when
requested to do so by the Seoretary to the Cabinet, know-
ing itself to be in the right. During the spring of 1929,
when eleotions of new members to city assemblies were
being

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
being held, three of the most powerful dailies, the
Asahi, Nichinichi, and Jiji, attracted much attention
by their positive attitude. One example is the action
of the heads of these papers in combining to select
from over two hundred forty candidates for the city
assembly fifty whom they considered to be qualified and
able. These fifty men were introduced and backed by
these papers, and it is interesting to note that of
these fifty candidates thirty-two were elected. In
October, Premier Hamaguchi, who had gained the strong
support of public opinion by his retrenchment policy,
suddenly issued an order reducing the salaries of all
government employees. The newspapers, which were con-
fidently expected to support this measure, with one
accord began a violent opposition, to which eventually
the Government was forced to bow and to rescind the
order. Japanese journalists were gleeful, inasmuch as
it was recognized that rather than public opinion
forcing the issue the press itself directed the campaign
of opposition and influenced the course of government.
Repeated instances of this kind must convince any
government in office that the press is a power to reckon
with. As though to recognize the power of the press, the
present Premier Hamaguohi, soon after forming his cabinet,
took the unprecedented step of oalling in publio on the
Osaka Mainiohi and Asahi and thanking them in person for
their support of his policies, and later made another
chapter in press history by attending a banquet of press-
men in Tokyo, at whioh, after a promise of secreoy, the
Premier spoke on his ideas of government policies; the
Minister

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
-12 -
Minister of the Navy spoke on the Japanese attitude
toward naval reduction; the Minister of Finance spoke
on the financial policy with regard to the lifting of
the gold embargo, and all pleaded for the support of
the press.
OFFICIAL CORTROL OF THE PRESS.
A translation of the Press Law will be found in
the appendix to this report. Japanese officialdom has
always been inclined to regard the press as a necessary evil
and even today keeps a close watch for any suggestion of
"dangerous thoughts" or ideas calculated to have, in its
opinion, a deleteri ous effect on public morals. Under
Article XIX of the Constitution, "Japanese subjects shall,
within the limits of law, enjoy the liverty of speech,
writing, publication, public meeting, and association," a
concession which has little meaning when qualified by the
limitations of the provisiuns of law.
The police, acting under the authority of the Home
Ministry, are the mentors of public morals and have the
power to suppress or suspend publications containing
artioles judged prejudicial to the public order, which
power they frequently exeroise in a manner hardly con-
sistent with principles of free speeoh. It is difficult
to regard some of the suppressions that have taken place
in recent years as anything except grave abuse of power by
the authorities, partioularly when matters of prime con-
cern to the publio, suoh as pending diplomatio arrangements,
in
or the failure of a bank, or news of corruption/high places,
are prohibited from publication.
Often the only effect
suoh

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.98)
- 13-
such suppressions could have are the oppesite of that
desired by the authorities.
Curiously enough, there has never been a real fight
for the freedom of the press in Japan, despite
the un-
doubted ability of the press to make a strong stand if
concerted action vere taken.
There still remains in
Japan the strong sense of discipline and the tendency,
inherited from the feudalisn of two generations ago, to
regard the government as the fountainhead of all authori-
ty. Newspapers may and do fulminate against the policies
of the government in power and conduct campaigns against
the party in power, but it would be a strong-minded
editor indeed who would attempt to resist offioial
authority.
Under the present Minseito Government, which in
many of its policies is far more enlightened than the
majority of its predecessors, there has been an
anachronous orgy of newspaper suppressions. There is
at present less freedom of speech or writing than there
has been for many years. It is difficult to explain
the reasons for these prohibitions unless they are the
reactionary response on the part of the government to
the growing wave of liberal thought whioh is sweeping
Japan. The passing of the present press laws under
whioh prohibitions are made was not accomplished with-
out.some dispute, but the effective argument was that
the authorities must have adequate control in order to
deal adequately with evil doers.
Some of the larger papers oocasionally publish
news which is under an embargo, considering the result-
1ng

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
ing fi..e compensated for by the publicity gained, but
the procedure is risky, for worse punishments than
that can be invoked, even to suspension of publishing
and to jail sentences for the editors. In the past,
newspapers used the aevice of a dummy editor whose
sole duties were to accept responsibility for articles
incurring the displeasure of the authorities, but this
peculiar device has lost its efficacy since the authori-
ties began to inflict punishment on the actual author.
Any periodical discussing current politics must de-
posit with the authorities a security ranging from
Yen 2,000 to Yen 17o, according to place and frequency
of publication, wnich deposit is calculated to insure
good behavior on the part of the publishers, as it may be
forfeited to the Government in case of non-compliance with
regulations.
MANAGEMENT OF NEWSPAPERS.
With the exception of a notaule few, Japanese news-
papers are not regarded as money-making enterprises.
The competition of the few great metropolitan newspapers
prevents the growth of a strong local press, and even the
metropolitan papers are engaged in a contest for sub-
scriptions so bitter as to be financially destruotive.
Advertisemen uo uot uonsticute as important a part of
newspaper incomes as in the United States, due to the rela-
tively high cost of such advertising and to the oonsequent
lack of demand. The few papers dominating the field have
tremendous resouroes; the Osaka Mainiohi being capitalized
at Yen 10,000,000, ana the Osaka Asahi at Yen 6,000,000;
but

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
but there are only about six other newspapers in Japan
with a ca ital of over Yen 1,000,000.
In striking contrast to most iniluential newspapers
of America, few Ja anese newspapers have any partisan
oias. The leading dailies stand independent of party
politios and neither seek the favor of the Government
nor serve the opposition, exce t as their own policies
dictate. This may partially oe explained by the fact
that nearly all of the influential dailies are joint
stock concerns, in the conduct of which a multitude of
shareholders of varying political persuasions have a
voice.
Managing editors of Japanese papers exercise very
loose control over what appears in their pages and do
not seem to care very much about the accuracy of stories
as long as they are not "scooped" by their rivals in re-
gard to sensational stories. Not infrequently one
notices that two articles treating one and the same sub-
ject in the same issue of a paper express totally dif-
ferent opinions, presumably because what one man wrote
was not knowm to the other writer. In this respect
Japanese newspaper writers may be said to be working in
"water-tight compartments."

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
- 10 -
APPENDIX
TOKYO ASAHI shlI BUN (Owned by Osaka Asahi Shimbun)
Independent politically. In some res ects Tokyo's
most influential daily. nead by general public.
Vide Osaka Asahi.
First puolished:
1888
Organization:
Joint stock company.
Capital:
Yen6,000,000.
Circulation:
Approximately 1,250,000.
Number of pages daily:
Morning, 8; evening, 4.
Number of employees:
(In Tokyo) 1,000.
Cost per month:
Yen 1.00.
Also publishes "Asahigraph," "Asahi Sports," "Asahi
Annual," "Japan Art Aunual," etc. Nas poineer in
aviation in Japan and maintained air service to
Osaka until recently, when taken over by semi-official
organization. Maintains other air services, and sent
group of flyers to Europe in 1925.
President, etc.: Vide Osaka Asahi.
CHUGAI SHOGYO SHIPO (TokyO)
The only important daily trade journal published
in Japan. Primarily interested in economic and
commercial matters, but carries full political re-
ports and comments. Politically neutral. Is con-
trolled by and is organ of Mitsui interests.
First published:
1877
Organization:
Joint stock company.
Capital:
Yen 2,000,000.
Ciroulation:
Estimated 150,000.
Number of pages daily:
Morning, 8; evening, 4.
Employees:
950.
Cost per month:
Yen 1.20.
Also publishes supplement, "The Finanoial World,"
weekly.
Managing director: Kyujiro Yanada.
Manager:
K. Murakami.
Chief editor:
Kyujiro Yanada.
Kyujiro Yanada was born in Hiroshima in 1875. Gradu-
ating from the Senshu University, he entered the
Chugai Shogyo as a member of the staff and after
twelve years was made a director of the same journal.
He was later appointed managing director.
Kohei Murakami was born in Ehime in 1897. Being
interested in the newspaper business, he entered the
Chugai Shogyo as a director and is now ocoupying the
position of general manager.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
CHUO SHIMBUN (Tokyo)
Political organ of Seiyukai party and cf no influence.
First published:
1890
Organization:
Joint stock company.
Capital:
Yen 150,000.
Ciroulation:
Undetermined - small.
Number of pages daily:
Morning, 4; evening, 6.
Cost per month:
Yen.80.
Vice President:
Kotaro Yamaguchi.
Manager:
Yasaburo Teraoka.
Kotaro Yamaguchi, Vice President, was born in Fuku-
oka in 1873. He began as a reporter of the Kokumin
Shimbun anu was later made chief editor of the Fuku-
oka Nichinichi. He then assumed the post of vice-
president of the Chuo Shimbun, besides holding a
directorship in the Toho Electric Company, the Osaka
Taxi Company, the Nagoya Taxi Company, the Hakata
Stock Exchange, etc.
HOCHI SHIBUN (Tokyo)
At one time a very influential paper, and until
recently had the second largest circulation of
Tokyo dailies, but has declined during several
changes of management. Now largely owned by the
capitalist, Marquis Okuma, who takes little part
in the actual conduct of the paper. The Hochi is
the only influential paper in Tokyo with a politioal
bias, being pro-Minseito. Is read by the general
public, but seems recently to be interested in
becoming a "home paper." Inclines toward sensational-
ism in the effort to recover circulation.
First published:
1872
Organization:
Joint stock company.
Capital:
Yen 1,100,000.
Ciroulation:
Estimated: 200,000.
Number of pages daily:
Morning, 8; evening, 4.
Number of employees:
850.
Cost per month:
Yen 1.00.
President:
Marquis Nobutsune Okuma.
Vioe President:
Saburo Sakamoto.
Editors:
Shiro Hirota, Zentaro Yamasaki.
Marquis Nobutsune Okuma, son of the great political
leader of the Meiji Era, was born in Tokyo in 1871.
After graduation from the College of Law of the Tokyo
Imperial University, he further prosecuted his studies
at Cambridge University in England. He is the honorary
president of Waseda University (founded by his father)
and a member of the House of Peers. In 1927 he assumed
the post of president of the Hochi.
Saburo Sakamoto, Vice President, was born in Tokyo in
1867.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
HOCHI SHIMBUN (Tokyo) --(Continued)
18o7. After graduation at Maseda University, he
passed the official examination for judges and
public procurators and was appointed Public Procura-
tor. Later appointed Governor of Atita Prefecture.
Afterwards he engaged in business and assumed the
post of vice- resident of the Hochi, in addition to
the presidency of the Tohoku Kogyo kabushiki Kaisha,
and auditor of the Shichu Railway Company, etc.
JIJI SHIPO (Tokyo)
Conservative and independent. Non-partisan but
extremely inrluential. Taxes a constructive at-
titude in foreign affairs and aoes more to create
publio opinion in international questions than any
other daily. At one time Tokyo's most powerful
paper, but has lost to sone extent by growth of
the other two great rivals, the Asahi and Nichi-
nichi. Appeals to educated classes.
First publisned:
1882
Organization:
Jo at stock company.
Capital:
Yen 5,250,000.
Circulation:
Approximately: 500,000.
Number of pages daily:
Morning, ε and 12;
evening, 4.
Mumber of employees:
Approximately: 1,800.
Cost per month:
Yen 1.00.
Also publishes Jiji Annual (Almanac). 3roadcasts
and publishes daily news on boara Japanese ships.
President:
Ikunoshin Kadono.
Manager:
Nisaburo Momiyama.
Editor in chief:
Takuzo Itakura.
Editors:
Takeo Goto, H. Morita.
Chief stockholders:
Tokitaro Fukuzawa, Jukuro
Kadano, Iohitaro Fukuzawa,
S. Ikeda, Manjiro Yoshi-
mura, Ichisaburo Fujii,
Takeo Kato.
The president, Ikunoshin Kadono, was born in Miye
Prefecture in 1856. After graduation from Keio
Gijiku, he was made instructor in the same institu-
tion. Afterward he became the president of the
Jiji Shimpo besides holding the presidenay of the
Chiyoda Life Insurance Company, the Chitose Fire
and Marine Re-insurance Company, etc.
Niaaburo Momiyama was born in Tokyo in 1878. After
graduation from the Keio Gijiku he was made director
of the Momiyama Company and of the Momiyama Book
Store in Tokyo. Later he assumed the post of manager
of the Jiji.
KOKUMIN

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
-19-
KOKUMIN SHIMBUN (Tokyo)
Has never been first-rate paper, but was very
popular until recently because of its famous
editor, Tokutomi. The latter has recently severed
his connection with the Kokumin and has become
a contributor to the Nichinichi, und in consequence
the Kokumin is reported to have suffered a decline
in popularity. Has been in financial straits for
some time. Extremely nationalistic and anti-
American. Circulates largely among the lower classes.
First published:
1890
Organization:
Joint stock company.
Capital:
Yen 3,000,000.
Circulation:
Claims 300,000.
Number of employees:
Approximately 650.
Number of pages daily:
Morning, 8; evening, 4.
Cost per month:
Yen 1.00.
President:
Taiho Shizume.
Chief editor:
Masajiro Yamane.
Manager:
Junichi Futsu.
Editor:
S. Hosono.
Chief stookholders:
Eiichiro Tokutomi, Take-
yoshi Ishikawa, Torajiro
Azuma, Kokumin Shimbun
Holaing Corporation,
Torakichi Kameda, Shin
Kitta, Giichi Fukuzawa.
Taiho Shizume was born in Yamanashi in 1878. He is
president of the Kokumin Shimbun, besides holding
the post of director of the Yamanashi Bank.
MIYAKO SHIMBUN (Tokyo)
Decidedly second-rate and little more than a scandal
sheet. Has little influence in politioal matters.
Popular among the demi-monde. Is said to have
grown considerably in point of ciroulation in the
last few years.
First published:
1884.
Organization:
Joint stock company.
Capital:
Yen 1,300,000.
Pages:
Morning, 14.
Ciroulation:
Estimated, 200,000.
Number of employees:
450.
Cost per month:
Yen 1.20.
President:
Ei suke Fukuda.
Editing director:
Nobuhiro Yamamoto.
Editors:
Teizo Hattori, Hideo Watanabe.
Eisuke Fukuda, the president, was born in Tochigi in
1880. He started life as a business man and later be-
came the president of the Miyako Shimbun and the Ryono
Kogyo Kaisha, an industrial company.
Nobuhiro

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
-20-
MIYAKO SHIMBUN (Tokyo) --(Continued)
Nobuhiro Yamamoto, editing director, was born in
Ehime Prefecture. Graduating from the College of
Law of the Tokyo Imperial University, he entered
the Miyako Shimbun as a member of its staff and
was later promoted to his present position.
TOKYO NICHINICHI SHIMBUN
Owned by Osaka Mainichi Shimbun. Is conservative
but progressive. Independent politically, and
appeals to general public. Ranks as one of Tokyo's
"Big Three" in journalistic world.
First published:
1872
Organization:
Vide Osaka Mainichi Shimbun.
Capital:
11
11
11
Ciroulation:
900,000 (approximately).
Number of pages daily:
Morning, 8; evening, 4.
Number of employees:
2,800.
Cost per month:
Yen 1.00.
President:
Kikoichi Motoyama.
Vice President:
Minoru Oka.
Managing director:
Toshita Takagi.
Editor in chief:
Norinobu Matsuchi.
Editors:
Shingoro Takaishi, Sansho
Besshi, K. Abe.
YAMATO SHIIBUN (Tokyo)
Third-rate paper of a decidedly yellow complexion.
Known for its chauvinistic patriotism and seems to
bear grudge against America.
First published:
1886
Organization:
Privately owned.
Capital:
Not determined.
Ciroulation:
Estimated, 80,000.
Number of pages:
Morning, 4; evening, 4.
Number or employees:
120.
cost per month:
Yen.80.
Proprietor:
Viscount S. Fujinami.
Managing director:
R. Manabe.
Editors:
Ichiro Mochizuki, S. Yabe.
Viscount Shigetoki Fujinami was born in Tokyo in
1886. After graduation at the Tokyo Imperial Uni-
versity, he entered business and obtained a direotor-
ship in the Manohuria Salt Industry Company, the
Tokai Real Estate Company, eto., as well as purohasing
the Yamato Shimbun.
YOMIURI

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
-21-
YOMIURI SHIMBUN (Tokyo)
Is known as a literary and home paper, appealing
particularly to women. Has little interest or influ-
ence in political matters. Present owner is former
police chief of Tokyo and is said to have access to
various unusual sources of information and to finance
his paper with contributions by influential friends.
Has increased circulation considerably in recent years.
First published:
1874
Organization:
Privately owned.
Number of pages daily:
Morning, 8; evening, 4.
Capital:
Not determined.
Circulation:
Estimated, 100,000.
Rumber of employees:
300.
Cost per month:
Yen .80.
Proprietor:
Iatsutaro Shoriki.
Editors:
Katsue Shibata, T. Nakao,
Zennosuke Hirano.
OSAICA MAINICHI SHILBUN
Together with the Osaka Asahi is in a separate
journalistic class from other Japanese papers. Has
tremendous influence, circulation, and financial
resources. Is non-partisan in politics. Is read
by all classes.
First published:
1882.
Organization:
Joint stock company.
Capital:
Yen 10,000,000.(Has doubled
during past two years.)
Ciroulation:
About 1,300,000.
Number of pages daily:
Morning, 10; evening, 4.
Number of employees:
Apout 2,000.
Cost per month:
Yen 1.00.
Also publishes Osaka Mainichi English Edition, Sunday
Mainiohi, The Economist, Braille Mainichi.
President:
Hikoichi Motoyama.
Vice President:
Minoru Oka.
Director:
Toshita Takagi.
Editor in chief:
Motosuke Kito.
Editor:
Masagoro Takaishi.
Chief stookholders:
Ichizo Tanaka, Shoichi Kiri-
shima, Sukechika Nakayama,
Takeo Kato, Hikotaro Abe,
Matsuzo Matsumoto.
1
Hikoiohi Yamamoto was born in Kumamoto in 1853.
Studied at the Keio Gijiku and then joined the staff
of the Jiji Shimpo. Afterwards he established the
Osaka Mainichi Shimbun and became president of the
organization. He was decorated with the Third Order
of the Saored Treasure in recognition of the valuable
services

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
OSAKA MAINICHI SHIMBUN
--(Continued)
services rendered to the State and the people through
his paper.
Minoru Oka, Vice President of the company, was born
in Wakasa in 1873. Graduated from the Tokyo Imperial
University in l89o, he entered the government service
and was later appointed Director of the Bureau of
Commerce and Industries at the Department of Commerce
and Industries, and later Vice-Iinister of that Department.
In 1926 he was made adviser to the Osaka Mainichi
Shimbun and the Tokyo Nichinichi and was subseguently
made Vice President of the organization. It is
interesting to note that Oka and Shimomura (Managing
Director of the Osaka Asahi Shimbun) both married
daughters of the late president of the Yasuda Bank,
the largest non-official bank in Japan.
OSAKA ASAHI SHIMBUN
Has probably the largest circulation of any newspaper
in the world. Is extremely influential and together
with the Osaka Mainichi absolutely dominates journal-
ism in western Japan. Non-partisan in politics.
Independent.
First published:
1879
Organization:
Joint stock company. (Shares
not open to public.)
Circulation:
Claimed: 1,500,000.
Capital:
Yen 6,000,000.
Number of pages daily:
Morning, 10; evening, 4.
Number o1 employees:
1,800.
Cost per month:
Yen 1.00.
Also publishes "Weekly Asahi," "Asahi Sports," "Kodomo
Asahi," "Women's Asahi," "Asahigraph," "Stage and
Soreen," etc.
President:
Ryuhei Murayama.
Managing directors:
Seiichi Ueno and H. Shimomura.
Chief editors:
Yonosuke Okano and Toiohiro Harada.
Chief stookholders:
Ryuhei Murayama, Seiichi Ueno,
Masu Murayama, Ofuji Murayama,
Chokyo Murayama, Natsujiro
Isozaki.
Ryuhei Murayama was born in Miye in 1850. He started
the Osaka Asahi Shimbun on his own account and in 1889
he purchased the Tokyo Mezamashi Shimbun, a newspaper
published in Tokyo, and changed its title to Tokyo
Asahi Shimbun. He was decorated with the Third Order
of the Saored Treasure in appreciation of his valuable
services rendered to the State through his organ.
Seiiohi Ueno was born in Osaka in 1882. Graduating from
the College of Law of the Tokyo Imperial University, he
entered the Osaka Asahi Shimbun as a member of its staff
and

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
-23-
OSAKA ASAHI SHIMBUN
--(Continued)
and was later made managing director.
Hiroshi Shimomura was born in Wakayama in 1875.
Graduating from the Tokyo Imperial University, he
entered government service and was later made
Civil Administrator of Formosa under the Governor
General. He then entered the Osaka Asahi Shimbun
as managing director.
* * * * * * *

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
-1-
THE PRESS LAW
Law No. 41, promulgated May , 1909.
Ne hereby sive sanction to the Press Law, which
has been approved by the Imperial Diet, and We order
the same to be promulgated.
Article 1: The term, "newspapers," in the present
law signifies literary works which are published under
certain titles at lixed periods, or which are published
without fixed periods during a term of six months or
less, or whioh are published temporarily under the same
titles as original literary works not within a fixed
period.
Article 2: Any one who comes under the purview of
any of the following items must not become a publisher
or editor of a newspaper:
(1) Any one who does not reside in Japanese
territories where the present law is
enforced.
(2)
) Any naval or military man in active
service, or any one called to serve
the colors.
(3)
Any person under age, or incompetent
person, or quasi-competent person.
(4)
Any one who is undergoing the punishment
of either imprisonment with hard labor
or imprisonment, or who is under a
suspended sentence.
Artiole 3: A printing office or printing offices
of a newspaper may not be established outside Japanese
territories where the present law is in force.
Article 4: A publisher of a newspaper shall report
the following items to the Minister of Home Affairs:
(1) The title of the newspaper.
(2)
The kinds of subjeots to be published.
(3)
Whether or not matters relating to our-
rent events shall be published.
(4)
The period for publioation. If the
period for publication is fixed
definitely, the fixed period.
(5) The date of first publication of the
newspaper.
(6)
The office of publication, and the
printing office.
(7)
The name of the proprietor. If he is a
juridical person, the title of the same
and the name of its representative.
(8) The name and age of the publisher, editor,
and printer. If there are two or more
editors, the name and age of one of them
who is prinoipally engaged in editorial
work.
The

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
The above desoribed report shall be made in writing,
bearing the signature of the proprietor or his legal
representative, and shall be submitted to the authorities
within whose jurisdiction the newspaper orfice is situ-
ated ten days before the date of the first publication of
the newspaper.
Article 5: Any alteration of matters in Items Nos.
1. 2, and 3 of Paragra h 1 of the foregoing Article shall
be reported to the Minister of Home Affairs by the pro-
prietor in accordance with the procedure outlined in the
foregoing Article ten days previous to the date on which
the above alteration is made; and any alteration of mat-
ters in Items Nos. 4 and o, or change of proprietor, or
editor, or printer in the foregoing Article shall also
be reported prior to the change or within seven days
after the change. In submitting a report concerning
change of proprietor, however, it is necessary that the
report shall, except in the case of death, bear the
signature of both the former and new proprietors, or
their legal representatives.
Artiole 6: A publisher who has succeeded to the
rights and duties of another publisher who is dead or
who has come under the provisions of Article 2 shall
follow the procedure prescribed in the foregoing Article
within seven days from the date on which he assumes the
office of publisher. In cases other than the above
described, the procedure presoribed in the foregoing
article shall be carried out within ten days from the
date of the change.
Article 7: A newspaper shall be regarded as having
suspended publioation when it fails to be puolished
during one hundred days computed from the date of the
fixed period reported to the authorities, or from the
date of suspension of publication. A newspaper which
covers a period of more than one hundred days for the
publication of its third edition and which fails to be
published during a period fixed for the publication of
its third edition shall be regarded as having suspended
its publioation.
Artiole 8: In case either the publisher or editor
of a newspaper is dead, or in case a successor to the
publisher or editor coming under the provisions of
Article 2 is not appointed, or in case the publisher or
editor travels for more than one month beyond Japanese
territories where the present law is applied, the news-
paper must not be published unless a provisional publisher
or provisional editor is appointed.
The provisions of the present law relating to
publishers and editors shall be applied to provisional
publishers and editors alike.
Artiole 9: The provisions of the present law rela-
ting to the responsibilities of a publisher or publishers
ahall be applied to those mentioned in the following
items:

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
items:
(1)
Those who are not editors but have actually
taken charge of editorial business.
(2)
Those who have signed their names to
articles published.
(3)
As regards a statement or statements for
correction, or for contradiction or refuta-
tion, those who have demanded the publica-
tion of the same.
Article 10: In a newspaper, the name of its publisher,
editor, and printer, and its address shall be mentioned.
Article ll: Two copies of a newspaper shall, as soon
as published, be delivered at the Department of Home Af-
fairs, and one copy each at the local Government Office,
under whose jurisdiction the newspaper is published, at
the Office of the Public Procurator belonging to the looal
Court, and at the Office of the Public Procurator attached
to the Local Court.
Article l2: A newspaper publishing matters concerning
current events must deposit the following sum as guarantee
money with the local Government Office under whose juris-
diotion it is published:
(1) Two thousand yen in Tokyo and Osaka, as
well as in the districts within a aistance
of three ri (1 ri equals 2.44 miles) from
the city limits of the above two cities.
(2) One thousand yen in cities or "ku" (wards)
containing a population of more than 70,000
each, and in the districts within a
distance of one ri from the limits of the
cities or "ku."
(3) Five hundred yen in other districts.
The above guarantee money may be deposited in the form
of negotiable bonds to be specified by Government orders.
Artiole 13: The rights and obligations concerning the
guarantee money shall be transferred to a successor of a
publisher when the latter is ohanged.
Artiole l4: Unless the publication of a newspaper
is suspended, no one can demand the redemption of the
guarantee money, nor is any one permitted to transfer its
rights to a third party. However, this provision does
not apply to cases where the National Tax Collection Law
and the Government oruers relating thereto are to be en-
foroed, and where a judgment for the payment of compensa-
tion due to an offense against reputation is to be executed.
Artiole 15: In the case of a newspaper which deposits
its guarantee money with the authorities, if a publisher or
editor should fail to pay a fine, or expenses required in
connection with a criminal procedure within ten days com-
puted from the day on which a judgment is given, the
Publio Proourator may use either the whole or part of the
guarantee

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
guarantee money for the purpose.
Article l6: If it should occur that the guarantee
money is found insufficient, t is deficit shall be made
good; otherwise, a newspaper relating thereto must not
be published. However, t is provision shall not apply
for a period of seven days or less, computed from the
day on which the auove deficit occurs.
Article 17: As regards an error or mistake made in
matters published in a newspaper, if a person who is made
the subject treated in a paragraph published, or any one
who is directly concerned in such matters, should request
the publication of a correction, or a statement of cor-
rection, or a statement of contradiction or refutation,
the newspaper concerned shall make the correction, or
publish the whole of the statement of correction, or the
statement of contradiction or refutation in its next or third
issue after the receipt of the above request.
In the publication of the above correction, or the
statement of contradiction, the same type as the original
paragraph shall be used.
In case the reasons for the correction, or the state-
ment of contradiction, are against the laws and regulations,
or in case the name and address of the person making the
above request are not mentioned, the newspaper concerned
need not publish such correction.
In case the number of words used in the correction, or
the statement of o∞ntradiction, exceeds that of words printed
in the original paragraph, the publisher of the newspaper
concerned may demand the payment of the same charges as
those fixed for ordinary advertisements on the part of the
publisher regaräing the words in excess.
Article 18: In case a newspaper publishes certain
matters taken from the Official Gazette, or from another
newspaper, if a correction, or a stat ement of correction,
or a statement of contradiction is published in the Official
Gazette, or in the other newspaper, regarding any matter,
the newspaper shall, in accordance with the provisions of
the foregoing Article, publish the correction, or the
statement of correction, or the statement of contradiction
after it has obtained the Offioial Gazette or the other
newspaper, no matter whether the newspaper has not received
any suoh request from the person who is made the subject
treated or who is direotly concerned. In this case, the
newspaper may not demand the payment of any fee.
Artiole 19: A newspaper or newspapers may not publish
particulars of the proceedings of a preliminary trial before
it is committed for publio trial, or matters conoerning in-
quiries necessitated for the arrest of an offender or of-
fenders whioh the Publio Procurator prohibits from publioa-
tion, or matters relating to defendants under a preliminary
trial, or arguments on a lawsuit or suits whioh are conduoted
in camera.
Artiole 20:

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
Article 20: A newspaper or newspapers may not
publish any orficial documents issued by Government of-
fices or other authorities, or by the National Assembly
organized under the laws ana regulations issued by the
Government, or proceedings of discussions at a public
assembly, without permission. This provisi n shall also
apply to written petitions or written appeals that are
made public.
Article 2l: A newspaper or newspapers may not
publish matters instigating or concealing an offense or
offenses, or encouraging or protecting offenders or
criminal defendants, or damaging the reputation of
oriminal defendants.
Article 22: If a newspaper is published without
submitting reports in accordance with the provisions
of Articles 4, 5 and o, or by submitting false reports,
or without depositing guarantee money, or without sup-
plementing the same when it is necessary to do so, the
local Government authorities under whose jurisdiotion
the newspaper is published, shall suspend its publica-
tion until the guarantee money is deposited or supple-
mented.
Article 23: The Minister of Home Affairs may pro-
hibit the sale or distribution of all copies of a news-
paper or newspapers when he recognizes that matters
published therein will disturb the peace and tranquillity
of society, or deteriorate morals. If necessary, he may
confiscate all copies of the newspaper or newspapers.
In the above instances, the Minister of Home Affairs
may prohibit the publication of matters of the same
character as described above.
Article 24: In case the Minister of Home Afrairs
recognizes that matters printed in a newspaper or news-
papers published abroad or in Japanese territories where
the present law is not enforced are of such nature as to
disturb the peace and tranquillity of society, or deteri-
orate morals, he may prohibit the sale or distribution of
all o pies of such newspapers in Japanese territories
where the present law is in force.  Ir necessary, he may
seize all copies of the same.
In case a newspaper or rewspapers are subject to the
procedure as mentioned in the above clause two or more times
in one year, the Minister of Home Affairs may prohibit the
importation or transfer of the same to Japanese territories
where the present law is in foroe.
Article 26: The local Government authorities con-
cerned may seize all copies of a newspaper or newspapers
whioh are imported or transferred to Japan in contravention
of orders of prohibition under Paragraph 2 of the foregoing
Article, or of a newspaper or newspapers whioh were printed
with the objeot of selling or distributing the same in
contravention of a judgment or prohibition under Artiole 43.
Artiole 26:

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
Article 26: In case all copies of a newspaper or
newspapers which were seized under the provisions of the
present law are not released from such seizure for more
than two years, the administrative office which carried
out the said seizure may dispose of the same as it pleases.
Article 27: The Linister of Jar, of the Navy, and
of Foreign Affairs may, by the issue of orders, prohibit
or restrict the publication in a newspaper or newspapers
of matters concerning the Navy, the Army, or foreign
affairs.
(Articles 28 to 43, inclusive, describe punishments
imposable in consequence of infractions of the preceding
provisions, ana ure not quoted.)
Article 44: The provisions of the Criminal Law
shall not be applied to the offenses specified in the
present law.
Article 45: In case a legal acti n for libel is
taken in regard to m tters published in a newspaper, the
law Court may, with the exception of matters relating to
private affairs, allow the defendant concerned to explain
the real facts when the Court recognizes that he has
acted for the sake of the public and with evil intention.
If his proof shall be legally estaolished, he shall be
released of his alleged offense. As regards a claim for
the payment of compensation in connection with the above
legal action takel, he shall also be released of all
obligations relating thereto.
Supplementary Rules.
The regulations relating to newspapers shall be
avolished.
* * * * * * *

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
May 13, 1930.
There is attached a draft of an
instruction to the Embassy at Tokyo comment-
ing upon an excellent report on the Japanese
press, forwarded with the Embassy's des-
patch No. 55 of March 7, 1930. FP may
desire to make an appropriate notation on
the efficiency record of Mr. William T.
Turner, Third Secretary of the Embassy,
whose initials appear on the carbon copies
of the report.
SMA
FE:JWB: ZMF

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.95)
No.49
May
16 1930
The Honorable
William R. Castle, junior,
American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
Sir:
894.
The Department has read with interest the report
entitled "The Japanese Press". prepared by a member
of the Embassy Staff, and forwarded with your despatch
16
No. 55 of March 7, 1930. The report is an excellent
one, and deals concisely yet adequately with the
historical background, distribution, oiroulation,
compesition, management, and the ethics and influence
of the Japanese press. The appendix giving a detailed
demoription of the prinoipal newspapers should prove
useful for referenoe purposes.
I am, Sir,
Your obedient servant,
For the Seoretary of State:
Wilbur J. Carm,
A true copy of
the signed orig-
896.91/8
M
CR
May. 14.1930.
干尸
FB: JWB: ZXF
td on m
n/15/80

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.93)
CI -to note
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
December 6, 1932.
EID:
WRI:
1001:
SKHT
Tokyo's desputen Ho. 198 or
November 17, l932, revises the
Embassy's despatch of March 7, 1930,
which gave a comprehensive survey of
the more important newspapers in
Japan, revision beins necessury because,
during the present internutional erisis,
affiliations, policies una political
complexions of the greut Japanese
dailies have assumed added importance.
The despaten is of interest chiefly
for purposes of reference.
THE UNDERLTCRETARY
ZA
LES:EJL
DEPARTMLYI DE SIATE

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.93)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 198
Tokyo, ovember 17, 1932.
Subject: Arriliutions, Policies mld ro ibical
Coloxion p pe Pripal mes avers
Jn
COPIES SENT TO
O. N.L AND M. LD
F/HS
532
RECO
S
Nohy mitE
DEC.
ill
DEC 23 1932
Wd
Division of
894.91/4
DEP
6
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEC 5- 1932
Department of State
894.91
JAN1 4 100
PTI FD
The Honorable
he Jecretary of State,
Washingtol.
Sir:
The Department is referred to this Eibassy's
894.9113
despatch No. 55, of liarch 7, 1930, vit. Which was
forwarded a comprelensive survey of the more important
neuspapers in Japan. Since the time of compilation
of the report referred to there have occurred num rous
changes in the ownership and affiliations of the journals
listed in the report, rendering a revision desirable.
Moreover, during the present international crisis the
affiliations.
1

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
affiliations, policies and political complexions of
the great Japanese dailies assume an added importance,
1/
and consequently the appended brief resume of the principal
newspapers, which will serve not only as a revision of
the previous report but vill serve as an indication of
the political bias of the newspapers, has been compiled.
In this connection it should be noted that the two
largest newspaper combinations in Japan( the OSAkA ASAHI,
with which is combined the TOKYO ASAHI, and the OSAKA
MAINICHI, with which is combined the TOKYO NICHI-NICHI)
have their headquarters and principal editorial offices
in Osaka and not in Tokyo. Both of these newspaper com-
binations are entirely independent of political or govern-
mental affiliations or obligations, and it is perhaps
because of this independence and their isolation from the
influences and intrigues of the capital that the two
have reached their outstanding positions of size and
influence.
Respectfully yours,
M.
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosure? Resume of Newspapers.
891.
ERD:r
In quadruplicate to the Department
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
n
" Consulate General, Shanghai.
" Consulate General, Mukden.
" Consulate General, Harbin.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
NEWSPAPERS IN JAPAN.
Listed approximately in order of size and influence.
Japanese-language Newspapers:
OSAKA ASAHI SHIMBUN and TOKYO ASAHI SHIMBUN.
There has been no change in ownership or
management of this newspaper combination for
the past several years. It is independent and
most conservative in tone. In general it adopts
a somewhat anti-militarist tone in its editorials
and in the past has drawn upon itself the rath
of the extreme nationalist groups. The shares
of the company are owned by a few men, all of
whom are connected with the nespaper, and by
the employees of the newspaper.  There is there-
fore no outside pressure on the policy of the
newspaper. This is the ost conservative news-
paper combination in Japan and may be compared
With the NEW YORK TDMES. It has perhaps the
largest circulation and the greatest influence
of any Japanese newspaper or newspaper combina-
tion.
OSAKA MAINICHI SHIBUN AND TOKYO NICHI-NICHI SHDIBUN.
This newspaper combination has not changed
o nership or anagement for several years. It
is independent of the political parties and govern-
ment offices. Its journals cater to the popular
taste and are somewhat more sensational than the
ASAHI newspapers. The shares of the comnany ere
held to some extent by persons not directly con-
nected with the newspapers, and the Mitsubishi
interests are reported to have purchased a con-
siderable portion of the shares. The newspapers
are therefore friendly to the Mitsubishi enter-
prises. This newspaper combination may be con-
sidered to correspond in general policy to the
- Hearst group of newspapers in the United States.
JIJI SHIMPO
The control of this newspaper recently passed
to Mr. Sanji Muto, formerly President of the
Kanegafuchi Spinning Company, one of the largest
cotton spinning and weaving firms in Japan. Mr.
Muto had possessed a controlling interest in the
newspaper for some time but only assumed control
about six months ago. Mr. uto is also the
President of the Jitsugyo Doshikai, a business-
men's political party, and the newspaper naturally
reflects the businessman's viewpoint. The journal
is internationally-minded and pro-American. It
takes a conservative and constructive attitude
on

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
on foreign aff irs and is especially interested in
the attitude of the United States in international
questions. The paper is bright without being sensa-
- tional. It corresponds somewhat to the New York
- WORLD- ELEGRAM.
HOCHI SHIMBUN
This newspaper was puruhased about two years ago
by Iir. Sei ji Noma, the "Ii gazine King" of J pun. It
is nominally independent but is inclined some:vhat
to the Minseito side. It is, like the liI, unti-
militarist in generl policy. It  voids sensational-
is. and goes in for " success stories". In spite
of the transfer of oimership and :anagement, it re-
tains, to a cortain extent, its tradition of coniection
with Waseda Unive sity. It cerres onds i. ch r cter to
the New York VEiG POST.
KOKMIN SHI BUN
This le..spaper was (and is) in cerious financial
difficulties, ana ufter te o ners pedaled it around
Tokyo for sele time, it was fina ly  en over by
one M. Ito, a former stocxbr ker and un ex-convict.
It is not known wo aotually o. the newspaper at
present. It is cxiremely nuti  listic and uavocates
such movements as the "bck to Asia" policy. It is
- bitterly anti-American and usuelly veices the views
of the extreme ilit rists. At the me t e it has no
permanent connection with the mili urists, who dislike
and distrust Ito. The paper is not influential. It
is in financial difficulties und the employees are
trying to collect wpaid wages from lezu, a wealthy
brewer and fornerly owner of the newspaper. The news-
paper is sensational und cheap, uni corresponds in
char cter to some of the merican tabloids, such as
the New York GRiPhIC or .IRROR.
MIYAKO SHIMBUN
The MIYAko SHDiBUN has not changed ownership or
management for some years. It is still the newspaper
for the amusement professions, but in recent years
it has adopted a more serious attitude and has ac-
quired a considerable circulation outside anusement
circles. Its principal a peal, however, is still
to theatrical people, wrestlers, geisha, racing men,
curb brokers, etc. It corresponds somewhat to the
New York MORNING TELEGRAPH.
CHUGAI SHOGYO SHLPO
This commercial newspaper has not changed owner-
ship or management recently. It is generally re-
puted to be financed by and to express the opinions
of the Mitsui interests. It is dull and its news
is generally of a stereotyped character. In addition
to commercial and industrial news, it carries political
reports and editorials. It is conservative and never
expresses new or striking ideas. Although it is the
only

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
only conmercial newspaper of importance in Japan,
it is reported to be hardly ecual to meeting the
needs of the stock market nd the business world.
It corresponds to the New York JOURNAL OF COM ERCE
rather than to the WALL STREET JOURNAL.
YOMIURI SHIMBUN
This newspaper has not changed ownership or
management in recent years. hrough the former
connection of the owner, M. Shoriki, with the
Metropolitan Police Board, it has unusual access
to police news, which it features. It elso has
the best movie news in J pon and goes in for sports
news, especially baseball news. It sometimes brings
American big league baseball teams to Japan. It
carries a great deal of news of interest to women,
and for this reason has the lurgest Kansai circula-
tion of any Tokyo newspaper. It has ex anded its
printing facilities recently and its circulation is
rapidly increasing, probably because of its emphasis
on sports and moving pictures- both subjects of great
interest in modern Japan. It cor esponds to the New
York EVENING JOURNAL in character.
CHUO SHIBUN
This newspaper is under the control of a group of
Seiyukai politicians, and the registered ownership
and management chenges from time to time. The present
proprietor is Lir. Katsuzo Horikawa and the Chief
Editor is Mr. Tadayuki Nakejima. It is a scandalous
sheet, living partly( ccording to reports) by bl ck-
mail. It now has almost no influence or circulation
outside the Seiyukai party. It is doubtful if it has
a circulation of more than 5,000 dai ly.
YAMATO SHLBUN.
This newspaper was recently purchased by Mr. Fumio
Iwata nd the Chief Editor is Mr. Takio Kitah ra. It
claims to be independent of eny political parties
or governmental institutions. It is chauvinistic
and sensational and sometimes anti-American. Its
circulation is small and it has very little influence.
NIPPON
This is a small ultra-nationalist sheet, backed
by Mr. H. Ogawa, who was formerly Minister of Rail-
ways and who was involved in a railway scandal. The
staff is Seiyukai in politics. The newspaper is under
the Army influence, is very violent in tone and is
anti-American. It is extremely reactionary and has
some influence among the patriotic societies. Its
circulation is small.
MAIYU SHIMBUN
This is a daily newspaper much like the CHUO SHDMBUN.
It is owned by a Seiyukai group, the registered owner
being one Kimura. It is, to some extent, the POLICE
GAZETTE of Japan, but it is not quite as respectable
as the

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
POLICE GAZETTE. It lives on scandals and blackmail.
It specializes on attacks on foreigners, based on
purely fictitious stories picked up in the under-
world of Tokyo. The newspaper has a very small
circulation and practically no influence.
English-language Newspapers.
JAPAN ADVERTISER
This newspaper is controlled by the Fleisher
family, B. W. Fleisher being the Editor and Publisher
and his son, Wilfred, being lianaging Editor. The
Fleishers are American citizens. The newspaper is
independent and has no political or governmental
affiliations. It naturally tends to carry American
news, but it is hesitant in expressing the American
point of view at the present time, fering to lose
1ts connections with the news-supplying agencies of
the Japanese Goveriment. For instance, it has been
careful to maintain a neutral stand in the Manchurian
dispute. It is, however, easily the best English-
language newspaper in Japan, although the OSAKA MAINICHI
and TOKYO NICHI-NICHI, English edition, probably has
the wider circulation.
OSAKA MAINICHI AND TOKYO MICHI-NICHI, English Edition.
This is an eight-page newspaper published in English
by the OSAKA MAINICHI, in Osaka. A part of the edition
carries the heading of TOKYO NICHI-HICHI and is sent to
Tokyo for distribution. The ne.:spaper carries the
telegraphic and local news published in the Japanese
editions of the nerspaper(at least, as much of the
news as the editors believe it to be advisable to
release to foreigners) and has the advantage of the
very large MAINIChI news-gathering service. It is
conservative in political views  nd while it, in
common with all Japanese-owned English-language news-
papers, has the mission of interpreting Japan to the
outside world, it is not too florid in its praises
of Japan. It publishes news of especial interest
to students and has a Large circulation among Japanese
students of English.
JAPAN TIMES AND MAIL
This is a newspaper with a long tradition but a
declining influence. It is reported to have been
subsidized in the past by both the Japanese Foreign
Office and the War Office. The Foreign Office,
however, withdrew its subsidy about the middle of
1931, as it did not consider that the newspaper was
actually a ccomplishing anything for the good of Japan.
The War Office stopped its subsidy in the summer of
1932, for the same reason. The President of the
Company is Mr. G. Date, but in fact he has nothing
to do with the newspaper, which is controlled by the
Sheba

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.97)
一5-
Sheba family. Mr. S. Sheba is the real owner and
publisher, and his two sons act as editor and manager,
respectively. Yoshio Nitobe, the son of Dr. Inazo
Nitobe, is a registered editor, but he really has
little connection with the newspaper, except to con-
tribute editorials occasionally. The neuspaper has
recently adopted a very independent tone and has ex-
pressed opinions considerably at variance with those
of the reactionary-military group. The newspaper is
in financial difficulties, and it is reported that
the Foreign Uffice is considering the purchase of the
paper, provided that the Shebas relinquish all con-
nection with it . he Shebas, however, are holding out
for a good price. The  uper has a small circulation
and little influence.
JAPAN CHRONICLE
This newspaper, published in Hobe, is owned by the
estate of the late Robert Young, a ritish subject.
he present editor, r. A. Morgan Young(British), is
not related to the fommer owner. Mr. Douglas G. Young,
the Managing Director, is the son of the Late Robert
Young. The news puper is sritish in make-up and tone
and is modelled, in policy, upon the  CiSTER GUARDIAN.
The paper is bit erly critical of the Japenese and leans
toward radical liber lism. Its criticisn is usually
destructive rather thun constructive, nd the eneral
reputation and influence of the journal has decreused
considerably since he de th of te forner owner and
editor, r. Robert Young. It is, however, the only
newspaper, eiti.r Jep nese or Enclish, in Jepun, wich
has stoutly end consistently upheld the League of Nations
and merican point of view in the lanchurian cuestion.
This is not due to any pro-A e ican policy, however
(the journal is usually critical of the United States),
but to its intensely anti-imperialistic and anti-
militaristic tendency. he circulation of the newspaper
is small but its influence is greeuer than is ndicated
I by its ci culation.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.98)
CI
ARTMENT OF STATE
ION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 31, 1933
EHD:
WRL:
2
Tokyo's despatch No. 249
of Januery 10, 1933, reports
that the JAPAN TIMES ANL MAIL
changed hands on January 1, 1933,
the new publisher and editor being
Mr. Hitoshi Ashida. This three-
page despatch should be read in
full.
LES:KC

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
c fidoutisl)
Tokyo, January 10, 1933.
deR
No. 249.
Subject:
Change in Ownership and Management of the
JAPAN TIMES AND MAIL.
844.91
F/G
2908
AATE
894.91/5
Div sion of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRG
JAN 30 1933
Department of State
The Honorable
JUL
The Secretary of State,
FILED
3
Washington.
3-1933
Sir:
4
I wish to refer to my despatch No. 198 of
November 17, 1932, on the subject of the "Affiliations,
Policies, and Political Complexion of the Principal News-
papers in Japan", in which I stated that the JAPAN TIMES
AND MAIL, an English language newspaper published by Japa-
nese, was in financial difficulties, as its subsidies had
been withdrawn, and that there were reports that it would
be purchased by the Japanese Foreign Office.
I

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
I now have to report that the JAPAN TIMES AND
MAIL changed ownership and management as from January 1,
1933. The new Publisher and Editor of the journal is
Mr. Hitoshi Ashida, until recently in the J: panese Foreign
Service, his last post having been Counsellor of Embassy
at Constantinople. He resigned early in 1932 and returned
to Japan, where he was elected to the Lower House of the
Diet on the Seiyukai ticket. He told  local newspaper
correspondent that he had resigned from the Foreign Service
because he "did not like the military control of the Foreign
Office" and he professes sympathy with the League of Nations
and American viewpoints on the Manchurian question. He
was Chief of the Intelligence Division of the Foreign Office
when Baron Shidehara was Foreign Minister and is supposed to
be an advocate of "Shidehara diplomacy". At the same time he
is close to Mr. Shiratori, the present Chief of the Intelli-
gence Division, who is an advocate of a positive, militaris-
tic policy.
The new Managing Editor of the JAPAN TIMES AND MAIL
is Mr. Yoshio Nitobe, a son of Dr. Inazo Nitobe. Yoshio
Nitobe, like his father, is a man of somewhat more liberal
views than are common in Japan. Before the position of
Managing Editor was offered to Mr. Nitobe, it was offered
first to Mr. Frederick Moore(at one time adviser to the
Foreign Office), then to Mr. Hugh Byas(correspondent in
Japan for the NEW YORK TIMES and the LONDON TIMES), and
then to Captain M. D. Kennedy(Japan correspondent for Reuters,
Ltd.). All of these gentlemen refused the offer, but it
is understood that Captain Kennedy will act as a contributing
editor

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
editor. Captain Kennedy has been long resident in Japan,
is considered an authority on things Japanese, and is the
author of several books on the country, the best-known
of which is " The Changing Fabric of J pan".
The Foreign Office, it is understooc, was dissatis-
fied with the management of the newspaper by the former
owner and publisher, Mr. S. Sheba, nd consequently with-
drew its subsidy, and as the newspaper was not able to
continue without subsidies, Sheba was forced to sell. The
newspaper was ostensibly purchased by a group of Japanese
but in reality, according to a confidential statement of
Mr. Shiratori, the largest owner is the Foreign Office. The
newspaper, under the new management, expects to receive
a Foreign Office subsidy sufficient to ensure its continued
existence, but it will apparently receive no aid from the
War Office.
The policy of the newspaper under the new management,
according to a statement published in the issue of January 1,
1933, is to supply accurate and impartial news, to follow an
independent and liberal editorial policy, to support the
principles of constitutional government, to advocate justice
in international affairs, and to promote international amity.
I was asked by Mr. Ashida(with whom I became well ac-
quainted when in Constantinople) to send a New Year's message
for the first issue under the new management. I enclose here-
with a copy of my letter, which was published in the supplement
to

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
1,2/ to the issue of January 1, 1933, and of Mr. Ashida's
reply thereto.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosures:
1. Copy of letter to Mr. Ashida of December 27, 1932.
. Copy of Mr. Ashida's reply of December 28, 193?.
891.
ERD:r

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.96)
Jlsme AoI
10 aesp ch
249 of Jan/0'33 from the
   yo.
C O P Y
December 27, 1932.
Dear Mr. Ashida:
I appreciate very much your request that I
should send you a New Year's message for the JAPAN
TIMES. First of all, let me wish you every success
in the important editorship which you are about to
assume. It opens up such splendid opportunities for
useful and constructive service that I feel sure you
will find the work both stimulating and congenial.
1932 has not been a happy year for the wor1d at
large. It has brought difficult problems, many of which
are still unsolved, and much unemployment, destitution
and suffering among the people. There is only one spirit
with which to face the nev: year, a spirit not of destructive
complaint but of constructive optimism. A patient recovering
from an illness is more quickly cured by a cheerful out-
look and a determination to get well. World recovery cannot
thrive on a pessimistic habit of mind, for confidence is
the first essential to prosperity. Meanwhile we must work
hard and wisely, not closing our eyes to the facts but with
a resolute determination that we are going to influence those
facts in the right direction. It can be done.
In the meantime, honest friendship, mutual confidence
and proper cooperation among the nations are the essential
objectives for the reconstruction of our world. If during
1933 we can effectively contribute towards the practical
development of these cardinal principles, the coming year
will be remembered as a year of progress and not of re-
trogression in the history of civilization.
With all good wishes,
Sincerely yours
Joseph C. Grew.
Doctor Hitoshi Ashida,
Member of Parliament.

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.98)
Fnclosure No 
to despatch
No249 of 9a10'33
fro
Embass at Tokvo.
C O P Y
THE JAPAN TIMES.
Hibiya Park
Tokyo.
December 28th, 1932.
Your Excellency,
I wish to thank you for the very fine letter
which you were so kind as to send me and which I will
take great pride in printing in the first issue of
The Japan Times under my direction. You have, in your
letter, set, indeed, a very high standard of purpose to
follow and I am certain that your sentiments will ever
prove an inspiration to me in the work which I have under-
taken. I beg, however, your kind indulgence should I fall
short of the mark at the beginning since time and effort
are required before the paper may become anywhere repre-
sentative of the ideals which I m happy to note I may
share with you in common.
Thanking you again most heartily, and presenting
my compliments of the season,
I beg to remain,
Yours faithfully,
Hitoshi Ashida.
His Excellency Joseph C. Grew,
Ambassador of the United States of America.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.95)
12
Diion of
 No. 195.
SEP 14 1934
100 - Po11tical Forees.
105 - Intemational Relations.
TATE
Department of State
400- Propaganda.
DEP
RECEIVED
OCT 10 1934
DIVISION OF
894.91
During the past year there have been rumore that the two
importent Japanese news serviees Rengo and Nippon Dempo were
planning to smalgemete to form a single large govornment
supported serviee. So far the plan has not materialized, but
it is understood from a reliable souree that the Foreign Office
is supporting it and that there is a strong liklihood that the
end of the present year will see it carried out. Most of the
news supplied to the Japanese newspapere comes from one or both
of these organizations, and much of the news which is sent
abread by the foreign newspaper ocrrespondents in Japan has its
crigimal souree in their bulletins. The importanoe of this
894.
plan of malgamation, which is outlined below, is apparent.
(1) Both Nippon Dempo and Rengo will be rearganized
Into a now News Ageney, the name of whioh is to be selected
6
later.
(2) The capitalization of the new agency will be
9
5,000000.
(S) The head of the ageney will be a government
official and he will have military and naval assistants.
Most of the prosent porsonnel of both agenoies will retain
positiems arter the reorgemizetion takos place. As the first
president of the sganey, the strongest candidate at presont is
it is probabls that there will be muah opposition to him from
military oireles.
If this plan is carried out, the Japanese news service will
be a large govemment controlled organization with immense power
to spread government propaganda. Competition will be done away
and the standard of reliability will fall even lower than it is
at the present time. The efricieney of the mervice may be inereased,
but samplete govermmemt centrol of the press in this fashion is to
be regretted.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.91/
Despatch #1007
SEE
894.00 P.R./82
FOR
FROM Japan
Grew
) DATED
Oct. 11, 1934.
TO
NAME
1—1127
7
The increasing tendency on the part of the Japanese Government
REGARDING:
toward interfering with the Press.
FRG.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.88)
The Presm
There have beon in iostions that the Japanese Govern-
ment is showing an iner asing tendeney toward interfering
with the press, whether for ti purpose of suppressing
opinions an news that are inimical to Jepan's political
sc eues or of curbin: sensat onal st tements that might
eubarr o Ja an i itr ter r tore. in September
ntton
Embessy'e despater No. 95 of eot m er , 1 4.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.97)
49
negotietions were carried on for the consolidation of the
two important Japanese news ageneies, REnGo and NIPPON
DExPO. The Government has urged such an amalgamation os-
tensibly for reasons of economy an: for t e elimination
of unnecessary competition, but it wmuld appeer prob ble
that the real motive benind the Government's exhortations
1s its desire to establish stricter control over news
despatehes, both incoming an  outgoing. At the present
time the two news ageneies are in competition and there-
fore sensational, and even alarming, reports are published
by the ageney which is fortunate enough to secure such re-
ports first. The idea has been advuneed that through the
consolidation of RENGO and NIPPON DEMPO the Government
is aiming at oventual official control of news services
in order that during the so-onlle: orisis of 1935-86
only the approved Japanese point of view may be presented
in Japan an abroad.*
