894.00 Japan, Political Affairs., January 6, 1945 - November 25, 1946 (File 1546), part 1 of 2
ID: 894.00-1546-1   Pages: 551   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.00-japan-political-affairs-27/894.00%20Japan%2C%20Political%20Affairs.%2C%20January%206%2C%201945%20-%20November%2025%2C%201946%201546-part-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.93)
SPECIAL WAR PROELEN
No. 56
DIVISION
FEB 20 1945
BIVISION OF 
FEB 1 6 1945
SNF
FFB
January 6, 1945
DEPARTMENT OF STAT
SECRET
SURJEJT:
A Runanian Traveler Describes Conditions
In Janan Petween July 1943 and December 1944
C.
Fur Di-t:ltion-Chmk
irade
PE ORALE
For
In U.S.A.
MIO,ONI, OSS,F
JA
()
E
11.
E
I have the honor to re ort the results of a recen
3
interview by I metoer of my staff with r. Edmond Ciyntu,
1945
a Ruma iun orficiul who his just returned from Japan.
ir. ciuntu is considered her: to be a man of integrity,
who steuafastly refused to uccept a position of responsi-
bility unuer the dictator re ime of Marshal Antonesou.
CS/EG
This duspatch should be read in connection with
the re ort prepared by the local branch of the osS,
Ho. GR-122 of December 30, 1944, and entitled "Report
of Rumanian usiness Man on Japan". The despatch
necessarily will overlap in some measure the contents
of the above-mentioned report.
.r. Ciuntu w-s cnu ht by the war on December 7,
194l in Hongkong, which he had reached in an attempt to
PARI SATE
o to the United States. He later went to Shanghai
SHIPPING DIVISION
and in July 1943 he proceeded to Japan where he sta
until his departure on Novemper 2o, 1944. Mr. Ciun
was Rumania's first Minister to Soviet Russia; he
was an intimate collaborator of the later weli-known
Rumanian Foreign Jecretary, Mr. Titulescu, and has
Russian contacts that may at some future date make
a logical Rumanian Ambassador ut Moscow or possibly
Foreign Minister. This background information is gi
for the purpose of illustrating that the information
Mr. Ciuntu gave in the interview may be considered
nighly.
bele
The information received by Mr. Ciuntu is not of
an unusual nature but is rather confirmatory in showing
that the trenu of life in Japan is continuing the
JEHARTMENI
downward
DCK EUR Urit
Anal
Rv
MAR 1 9 1945
16
1....t
DEPARTMENT
74e
Dist

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
downward spiral that began several years before the
war with the United States and Great Britain. Living
conditions are becoming inoreasingly drab, and economio
shortages are becoming more acute, while the publio
vacuum regarding knowledge of external conditions and
complete popular support for the war continues the same
as ever.
As time goes by foreigners are more than ever
isolated from the Japanese, and Mr. Ciuntu apologized
for not having any striking information to give since,
not possessing any official status and having refused
to accept the post of Rumanian Minister offered by the
Antonescu regime, he was certainly not in a position
to attempt to learn anything unusual.
The War and Propaganda
Today in Japan there is no such thing as politios
in the Western sense of the term for the entire nation
is devoting itself to the supply of the war machine.
The people maintain the same steadfast attitude with a
belief in final victory, and there is no open grumbling.
The Emperor continues to make his usual number of
appearances at military celebrations and all the great
national holidays.
Since the fall of the Tojo cabinet, however,
Japanese public speakers and the press have constantly
emphasized the growing difficulties of the war and the
probable length of the struggle. The speeches of the
former American Ambassador to Japan, Mr. Grew, are quoted
by the Japanese press to show that the United States also
realizes that the war will be long and hard. However,
this office's source met no single well placed Japanese,
outside of the military with which he did not have con-
tact, who really believed in a clear cut victory for
Japan. All of these people, although not certain how
it would be brought about, expected some sort of a
compromise peace of the type they felt followed the
Russo-Japanese war.
It is interesting to note the observer's view that
the Japanese public, at least until the American
air raids began in the last few months, somehow considered
the war a bit remote. The only outward signs of the
war were declining living standards and the increased
drabness of life. However, the first shock the
Japanese public received was the loss of Saipan. Two
Japanese police officials were sent to question the
source, who was asked whether in his view this loss
constituted a menace to Japan. In the press and in
statements the civilian suicides upon Saipan were given
great

=== Page 3 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-
great prominence, but the Japanese expressed the view
that these civilians had been foroed to commit suioide
by the military.
Propaganda against the Americans takes the form
of always using the adjective "beasts" in referring to
them. The press continues to state that Americans
fight only for adventure and money, and, to prove this,
various salaries and allowances of American airmen are
published in the papers.
Air Raids and Treatment of Americans
The Japanese have been making preparations for
American air raids for some time, and, when the super
fortress raids began, the people were conditioned to
the possibility of these raids, and their personal
behavior was competent.
One of the means that the Japanese adopted to pre-
pare for bombings and to avoid large scale fires was
to tear down many of the flimsy residences around key
industrial areas. The source thought this had been
done in some of the important districts and had visual
evidence of this being done in June 1944, when houses
were torn down for a distance of from fifty to sixty
yards on each side of the Tokyo-Yokohama Railway tracks.
Mr. Ciuntu had some talks with the Swiss in Tokyo
and met a Swiss Attache in Korea while he was returning
to Rumania via Russia, who gave him additional details.
This latter person, Mr. Angst, is well and favorably
known to Americans formerly in Japan, and he stated to
Mr. Ciuntu that he considers the Japanese are treating
interned Americans better than they first did and that
their living conditions are improving. He proposed
the question as one he was unable to decide: whether
the Japanese attitude was changing toward the American
prisoners because they were beginning to understand them
better or because they considered that it was to become
a long and serious war for Japan.
Industrial Mobilization and Economic Shortages
Women are being used more intensively in Japanese
industry than ever before; so much so that conservative
Japanese are afraid that the traditional family system
and its concomitant, subjugation of women, will be
disrupted by the women gaining their economic inde-
pendence. This office's source admitted, however, that
he had seen no outward signs himself of any such
changes.
The mobilization of people for industry has pro-
ceeded to such an extent that in Tokyo during the
day

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
day the streets are virtually empty because everyone is
busy in some form of war activity. Japanese families
are not permitted to have more than one servant sinoe
the others must go into war industry.
Economic shortages are most apparent. On the Ginza,
for example, an estimate of 60 percent of the shops
are closed and what stores are open sell such indigenous
products as silk and porcelain. The quality of "sufu"
fabrics is worse than ever. There is no soap, no
sugar, and fish is but rarely available since fishing
boats do not have fuel. Paper is extremely scarce, even
writing paper, and the newspapers continue to reduce
their pages. The NIPPON TIIES has four pages, and the
English edition of the OSAKA MAINACHI has but one sheet.
Tobacco is extremely difficult to find. There are but
a few taxis available, and these are for foreigners at
the Imperial Hotel, to transport luggage to and from
the station, the foreigners themselves either walking
or taking rickshas. No shoes are sold, and soles are
of pressed paper. Japanese must bring their rice
ration tickets to restaurants when they eat, and the
quality of restaurant food has greatly deteriorated.
Foreigners living at the Imperial Hotel are virtually
obliged to eat there because the quality of the fixed-
price meals in public restaurants is so bad. The food
in the Imperial Hotel also is quite poor. As an extra
treat a bottle of beer is made available once weekly
on the hotel menu. A very small black market for
conmodities is reported which deals exclusively with
foreigners since the Japanese penalties are so striot.
On this market sugar could be secured at loo Yen a kilo.
Prices are continuing to be strictly controlled.
Inflation is successfully being avoided, and all
inducements to excess spending are being rigidly
supervised. There have been no movies for a year.
The Takarazuka Theater has been closed, as has the Kabuki
Theater. There are a few Japanese traveling theaters
on tour throughout the Empire.
Fuel is a great problem, and at the beginning
of this winter a small bag of charcoal was the ration
for each family, with the Government announcing that
in mid-winter another small ration would be issued.
Last winter there was no heat in the Imperial Hotel
and this office's informant was forced to wear his
gloves and overcoat constantly.
Shipping
The informant is convinced that Japanese shipping
losses are the direct cause of the growing economic
shortages in the country. He considers that even the
Japanese themselves realize that these losses have
been

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
been heavy. In the big ports virtually no ships are
to be seen, but he considers that the principal traffie
is concentrated at the Naval stations and the smaller
Inland Sea ports. It is virtually impossible to secure
passage on a ship going south, so consequently travel
in that direction is done by plane. When this office'
source left Japan for Fusan in Korea, the ships orossing
the strait traveled only by day and took a zig-zag
course. At the time he made the trip there were two
ships crossing together accompanied by two small
escort vessels and patrolling planes overhead.
As an example of Japanese shipping losses the
informant cited the case of the requisitioned French
vessels, which were leased to the Japanese with the
agreement that in the event of loss the Frenoh would
be repaid the value of the ships. At first, said
French friends, the Japanese did pay for ships lost,
but now they continue to pay rent for the remainder,
even when the French know some of these have been
lost, since it is a military secret to admit these
losses and since it is cheaper to do so.
Respectfully yougs,
Burton'Y. Berry
United States Representative
in Rumania
RMDM: dm
800
Ozalid to Department

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES
Secret
Distributed 1 January 1945
XW
Dissemination No. A-47296
Country
Rumania/Japan
Original Report Mo. Ga-122
Subject
A Rumanian's Observation of
Date of Report
30 Deo. 1964
Conditions in Japan
F-3
Source
2
FEB 16 1945 Rofrence
RB-29746
RB-025
Flac of origin
Rumania
Tumber of Pages
2
1. The following information was received from a Rumanian civilian who
spent 16 months in Japan up to 28 November 1944. Source appears to
be well informed and a keenly intelligent reporter of fact.
2. Civilian morale of the majority of the Japanese is very high. The
people are uninformed about the truth of the war and Japanese naval
defeats, but appear to believe their leaders implicitly. Respect for
authority and veneration of the Emperor and military dommanders is
as great as ever. The morale of the soldier is very high. The pop-
wlation was very quiet during the Tokyo raids of 24 and 27 November with
no hysteria.
3.
Industrialists, professionals and others of the upper classes are not
confident in the ultimate Japanese victory. They have given up hope
of a separate peace between Germany and Russia, but believe that after
Germany is defeated Russia may interwene for peace between the United
States and Japan.
There is an absolute blackout in the cities. Theators are closed
and streets deserted after 9 o'clock in the evening. A few large
air raid shelters exist in large Tokyo office buildings. The
typical Japanese shelter is a small narrow trench, roofed over with
planks and dirt.
5. During the raid of 24 November which lasted two and a half hours
the population was completely calm. There was considerable Ack Ack
and Japanese fighters were seen. The Japanese claimed five bombers
destroyed. The raid of 27 November took place on a cluudy day and
the planes could not be seen. No Ack Ack was heard by source and
no claims were made by the press.
6. Source was informed of the following by an International Red Cross
representative: The treatment of American prisoners and the food is
much improved. Entertainment is now pormitted and no cases of
brutality are mentioned. The representative expressed the opinion
that the improved treatment resulted from a better Japanese understanding
of the American ways and habits. A large quantity of parcels from
the United States wms received in Japan and assurances were given that
they would be distributed soon. As a result the morale of american
prisoners has improved.
SECRET

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
OFFICE OF STSATEGIC SERVICES
-2-
A-47296
7. Civilian transport is curtailed and first class accommodations have
been cancelled. A special authorisation is necessary for train
travel. Entry into and exit from Manchukuo is carefully controlled:
Foreigners and wivilians may enter on three days of each month only.
8. It is impossible for foreigners so ascertain who are the Japanese
leaders. The Prime Minister is subordinate to the Army and Mavy,
and all important transactions are determined by representatives of
the Army and Navy, together with a small group of business men and
technician experts.
9. Individual officials are either unwilling or unable to act on their own
authority, and all decisions are made by boards and committees.
10. All labor unions are suppressed, and only government-approved patriotic
associations are permitted. There is no talk, ever, of strikes and
the Japanese play ut American labor difficulities as evidence of
internal dissension in America.
1l. The Russians hamp.r Japanese diplomatic travel, particularly in
the case of couriers. Japanese diplomats are forced to wait for
months for visas to pass through Russia. ource commented that
the Japanese Diplomatic Staff in Rumania has not yet left for Japan
because Russian permits have not yet been issued. The Japanese
diplomats from Finland have reached Japan and were observed by source
passing the Russian-Manchukuo border on 7 December.
SECRET

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.94)
.001
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT military defeats affecting Japanese political situatiom.
894.00/1-1045
1f
For the original paper from which reference is taken
Momorandum
FIS
State Dopartment
From
Date
a.10,194b
T
Japanese Affairs
xxxx
(Kullgron)
N
20.011 P../1-1045

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.97)
894.00/1-1745
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Memorandum entitled "The Japanese Communist Party" submitted.
894.00/1-1745
For the original paper from which reference is taken
F1
Confideutial File
(Despatoh, telegram, instruction, letiter, sto.)
S
From/ China(Chungking)
Dated
Jan. 17, 1945
To
(Davies)
xxx
740.3011 P.W./1-1745
File No.
ff

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.88)
CAFFAIRS
magnolia Arlan
Jahuary 29,19
REOEIVED
FEB
Dickener,:
DIVISION OF
dappreciate to the fullest extent
the thoughtulness sf my. Beew and yoursel
I thought Thadinteresting titlles, Ianmorder
ing two of the boorto which to me I beleing
monld be most interesting
I have been Studying speech
F
in vulation to morld order. Ilike to
S
figh aiviligation.
nD
844.00/12-1844
21945
goe Ricd

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
EPARTMENT OF STATE
OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ATMENT OF STH
1945
MAR 1 3 1945
(M) H
COMMUNISM AND THE FUTURE OF JAPAN
There can be little doubt that the Chinese Commmists
would like to see similar political processes ocour in
Japan and China. There is no concealment of the fact
that their ultimate goal for both countries is a Commumist
state. The power and prestige of Russia at the end of
the war make it even more likely that we may at some time
in the future face a Communist Asia.
Russian policy has shown itself to be eminently
realistic. Russia will probably not in the near future
openly interfere in the governments of either China or
Japan. If the Chinese Communists come into control of
a large part of China, as they are likely to do, and if
there is established in post-war Japan a form of
"bourgeois democracy", Russian policy will for the moment
have been satisfied.
Facing these probable developments in Asia, the
United States must likewise be eminently realistic. If
we adopt a negative, vacillating policy, we shall lose
the respect and friendship of all Asiatics and by default
shall lose our political influence among them.
In the case of Japan, we should not be afraid of
Communism. For purposes of political warfare, we should
use the Japanese Communists in and out of Japan. They
S
are a group which can and will help us. However,
politically they have been insignificant and it is
unlikely that they will rise overnight to dominate a
defeated Japan.
Americans cannot remake Japan. We shall inour only
MAR
resentment and failure if we attempt forcibly to impose
an American "way of life" on the Japanese. But we shall
also fail, and tragically, if we do as some publicists
have suggested, turn Japan over to the Chinese, or, to the
Russians.
Once
na
R
Cat.
Dist.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
73
-2-
Once the military terms of surrender are satisfied,
we should be fair but firm in our dealings with Japan.
We should remember that, with a few changes, the Japanese
Constitution is as democratic as we could wish. Bewaring
of pseudo-moderates, we should encourage the widest
representation of Japan's social strata in her organs of
government. Beyond economic responsibilities, our most
significant task may well be to let the fresh breeze of
information into the stale, thought-controlled air of the
country. We should no longer shudder at the word "propa-
ganda" and we should not shirk our responsibility to
influence Japan culturally.
If this American influence is skillfully exerted
and, in the course of history, Communism still comes to
Japan, we shall at least understand its coming and be
prepared to meet it. The eventuality may bemither a
shock nor a menace. But if we have left the Japanese to
"stew in their own juice", Asia may again present
problems soluble only by force of arms.
John K. Emmerson
FE:JKE:EAB

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTUENT OF STATE
IVISION
MAR 31 1949
DIRECTOR
Department of
APR
TC No. 9366
9ND
From
Sonntagsblatt Staatszeitung und Herold
New York, February 18, 1945
Letter from the Federal Capital
Japanese Parliamentarianism
BY DIPLOMATICUS
(The author of this article gives his own views, which are
not necessarily those of the publishers.)
It may take long, perhaps very long, until Japan will
be ready for "unconditional surrender." The capture of
Minila is certainly a long and extremely 1mportant step on
the road to Tokyo, and the suocessful bombing of Japanese
industrial plants and cities doubtless cannot be disposed
of with a shrug of their shoulders by the Japanese military
camarilla. But an infinite number of battles and heavy
sacrifices in blood will probably have to precedethe
occupation of the Japanese insular empire proper. In
addition, a large part of China has been conquered and
APR7 1945,
occupled by Japanese troops which will not give up the
country voluntarily.
The question whether there exists a Japanese "under
ground movement". and whether it will be possible to count
upon the establishment, or rather re-establishment of a
DOR
oonstitutional system in Japan, i.e. upon a parliamentary
government in Japanese style - upon "democracy" in a wera -
080
Soan be answered only on the basis of the historical develop
ment of parliamentarianism in Japan. I myself have had
opportunisi

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
opportunities to make the acquaintanee of many osm
Japanese demoorats, Japanese parliamentarians, smer m
Jusuke Tsurmi, high officials such as the late Japanese
Ambassador Saito, 1ndustrialists and journalists. All of
them reverentially bowed before the picture of their "Rul
of Divine Origin", the "Tenno" (Mikado), but they were still
just as reverential supporters of the parliamentarian system
and have, in my opinion, remained it.
If one reads the book of our best offioial export em
Japan, the present Under Seoretary of State and former (frem
February 1932 to Pearl Harbor) Ambassador in Tokyo, Jeseph
Clark Grew, one cannot have any doubts about the faot that
the parliamentary system did funotion within the framework
of the Japanese constitution. It is worth while to delve
a little in the history of Japanese parliamentarian history.
From the vast literature, I select as a basis an excellent
2/
study which C. Burnell Olds published some time ago in Foreim
3
Affairs.
Japan received her first oonstitution in l889. It
could, of course, not be compared with "Western" constitu-
tions. It should not be forgotten that the Japanese nation
has an almost theocratio 1dea of its emperor, the Mikado, as
being a descendant of the Sun. With this idea is conneoted
the patriarchal order of state and society - an order
fostered by Chinese Confucianiem - according to whioh the
Son of Heaven, sent to rule over the earth, 1s not only a
descendant
1/ Ton Yoars 1n Japan, by Joseph Clark Grew. New York, 1944.
Simon & Sohuster, Publishers. 568 pages and 12 pages
1llustrations. $3.75.
2/ In April 1945.
 Published by the Council on Foreign Relations, Ine.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.97)
-8
descendant of the goddess of the sun, but also a dose
of a divine father of a family, the members of which
the ancestors of all those who up to this day have bel
to the Japanese nation. On this idea are based the 
sacrifices" as well - which are offered to the imperial
ancestors before all important ceremonial aotions of the
state, as the family, which has the obligation of offering
similar sacrifices; being in an intermediary position betwoem
the state and the individual, the family has in Japan the
legal character of an almost official institution.
According to the constitution of l889 government is
divided between the Emperor and the parliament. This
parliament consists of two chambers, the members of one
of whioh - distinguished by inherited nobility, professional
status, or taxable capacity - are determined partly by
birth, partly by special selection, and partly called by
the Emperor. All the members of the Second Chamber are
elected by the people through equal, secret and direot
voting procedures. The right to vote depends on the
liability to taxation, so that in fact only a fraotion of
the population can exercise its franchise.
Although the constitution of 1889 can, of course, not
be called an entirely democratic dooument, it was, however,
a step toward demooracy. The constitution explicitly
declared "the person of the Emperor sacred and inviolable"
and gave him all privileges of the empire, inoluding the
sanotioning of all laws, oalling and dismissing of the
Imperial Parliament, supreme command over the Army and Mavy,
the declaration of wars and the conclusion of treaties.
Th1o

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
not to be fashioned too different from the old militar
régime. The miracle was that at that time a comstitute
civio rights to the people - something entirely new - 
as freedom of residence, guaranties against arrest, detems
investigation or punishment without legal procedure, the
right to official court procedure by legally instituted
judges, freedom of religion, speeoh, and press, and the
right to public gatherings as well as that of petitioming.
As to the parliament, 1t had to be called every year, and
every proposed law had to have its approval; this inoludes
also approval of the annual budget of all inoome and expenses
of the state.
The first popular cabinet came to power in l898, and
the first popular party was formed in 190l. But this
Social Democratic Party attempted too muoh and was
suppressed almost immediately; the ideals for whioh it had
fought remained, however, and continued to be a thorn in
the flesh of those responsible to the government. At the
same time also the old military party was at work. The
Japanese embassies abroad reported the bellicose attitude
of the Western nations, their armies and navies. The
militarists shouted: "In this lies the secret of the power
of the Western nations. It does not lie in their peaceful
institutions and ideals, but in their superior military
organization. If we want to be able to resist their
encroachments, we must have an army and a navy which are
a matoh for any other nation whioh might oppese us." Due
to the influence of the military party Japan introdused
general compulsery service instead of the small number or
the previous "military specialists". New every man bees

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.98)
a soldier and sducation was entirely geared
Moreover, the belier in the celestial rigim or
of Japanese emperors, a belier which had recedel amte
background, but by no means been forgottem, was agm
the program with a kind of divine order, and even to make
it a religion.
In 1909 already, 1.e. only four years after the end
the Russo-Japanese war, the militarists suoceeded in ebtai
ing a law which made it possible for them to submit any
problem of military importanee direotly to the Mmperer, over
the heads of the parliament, the cabinet, or the Premier
Minister. But as soon as the Emperor had given his approval,
any kind of opposition was made impossible. Thus a double
government was superimposed on the state to the constermatien
of those who then already believed to recognize that such
a polioy would ruin the country.
The first World War brought the fulfilment of the
greatest wish of the war party, viz. a foothold in Ohina.
But although the militarists were now firmly in the saddle,
they had at that time seriously to take into account oppesi-
tion by the students and intellectuals. Although this
political trend was radically fought against by the
militarists and punished by the police, it spread more and
more. A new wave of democratio spirit developed in l918
with the establishment of the first concentration cabinet
under the leadership of Premier Minister Hara. Another
1mportant new factor was the 1noreasing influence of the
capitalistio businessmen, which greatly disturbed the
militarists, because the military budget had now te be

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.98)
appreved by the parliament, where this influenee was 
powerful.
by the United States worked in faver of the military pas
Foreign Minister Baron Shidehara succeeded in contributimg
much to the softening of the stirred-up passions of the
people. In 1927 he was forced to resign, and Baron Tamaka
became Foreign Minister. During his régime the well-known
"Tanaka Memorandum" was promulgated which set forth Japan's
program of world conquest in full detail and in expressions
which were by no means vague.
Hamaguchi came to power in 1930. But his agreement to
the 5:5:3 formula of the London Naval Treaty enraged the Army
and Navy. Never before had the civilian authority so
unmistakably ohallenged the army and navy with regard to an
important question of national defense. This action meant,
according to the militarists, that the cabinet had the right
to control Japanese foreign policy; it also enoroached,
according to them, upon the privilege of the Imperian Counoil
to influence the Emperor in all his 1mportant decisions.
Hamaguch1 was assassinated in 1931. On September l8th of
the same year the famous "Manchurian inoident" oceurred.
Since then the militarists have firmly held the helm.
Three abortive revolutions followed 1n l93l, a number of
prominent liberal men were murdered the following year.
In 1933 the Japanese Government left the League of Nations.
The influence of the people vanished gradually, but con-
tinuously from 1933 to 1936.
But even then demooratic idealism was by no means dead,
which was shown by various events during the last ten years.
One of them concerned a discussion whieh arose with regard

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.98)
to Professor Minobe's theary on the emperor's relztith
the state. The books of the former were baamed, he
was foroed to resign from his position in the Upper
and to discontinue his lectures at three universities. In
spite of this new victory the "militant patriots" were far
from being contented, evidenee of which was the famous
"incident" of February 26, 1936. Assassinations and seeret
plots had become so numerous that the Emperor himself had
to 1ntervene by seriously reprimanding the army. This is
proof of the fact that the Emperor was by no means of one
mind with the military and would have kept them in cheek
if he had had freedom of action.
The parliament convened again on January 21, 1937 and
elected Hirota Premier Minister. The leaders of the Army
were accused in a stormy session of having violated the
constitution and the decrees promulgated by Emperor Meiji.
This led to the resignation of the Minister of War, General
Terauch1, and to the fall of the cabinet General Ugaki's
attempts to form a cabinet did not succeed, because no
militarist wanted to stay with him in the cabinet, although
the whole nation wanted him. Finally General Hayashi was
appointed, who was considered persona grata with his military
colleagues. But he had hardly entered upon his position,
when his government was most violently attacked in the
parliament by the veteran Ozaki, who very severely oriticized
the China polioy and the 1llegal seizure of politioal power
by the militarists. Ozaki's speech was received with very
great applause, but enraged the Premier Minister to such
an extent that he lost his temper and shouted: "In times
like these the slightest move sufrices to set ofr the
explosion." As a matter or fact, this explesiem happened
soon.
Maotako

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.98)
Naotake Bato, who had just returned as an Abas
from France, entered the cabinet as a Foreign Mimibtes
and immediately took charge of a new conoiliatery peliey
toward China which, as he said, he wanted te pursme "with
the support of publie opinion." At the same time he
oriticized the attitude of his ohief, whose policy drifted
toward war, by saying that "ir the Japanese nation deeided
not to go to war, there would not be any war." A short
time afterwards the parliament was dissolved in a summary
way, which caused a storm in the whole country.
The replacement elections of April 30 were surprising
inasmuch as the number of votes was smaller than the year
before. The Proletarian Party, "Shaki Taishuto", achieved
surprising successes. Halr of the electorate in Kobe voted
for this party. It won 36 seats altogether. The elections
showed that the nation was obviously opposed to the cabinet
Hayashi, and that its resignation was therefore to be
expeoted.
Hayashi resigned one month after the elections and wás
replaced by Prince Konoye who had no diffioulties 1n form-
ing a cabinet entirely subservient to the wishes of the Army.
Events were now driving toward the olimax, although all
newspapers of the country strongly protested against the
governmental polioy in Manchuria whioh undoubtedly was bound
to lead to war.
On September 4, 1937 the Emperor appeared in the opening
session of the parliament. With regard to conduoting a war
against China he said in his speech from the throne; "The
war against China is being conduoted for the sole purpose
of making that country revise its attitude, so that peace
in Eastern Asia may be re-established as soon as possible.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.96)
a
He continued: "In view of this situation I expeet all
subjeots faithfully and in unity to serve the common
so that this goal can be attained." Nobody dared to make
any objection. The Emperor had spoken: God wanted it se.
In the same year a general suppression of all politieal
parties set in. The Proletarian and Farmers' Parties were
dissolved and their leaders imprisoned. A huge budget of
7500 mill1on yen was approved. There was no hope after all
these events that a general war could be avoided. The date
chosen was December 7, 1941.
In order to obtain a new system in Japan, the Allies
will have to make the following demands:
The present government, which is under complete control
of the militarists, must definitely disappear.
The continuous maintenance of the Emperor's sovereignty
is indispensable to the establishment of a real popular
government. Veneration of the Emperor and readiness
completely to submit to his will are rooted in the Japanese
character. There can hardly be any doubt - this is also
stressed by Ambassador Grew - that the interests of his
people lie at the Emperor's heart. Ir he abolishes the
military dictatorship by an imperial deoree and proolaims that
he re-assumes total sovereignty, the people will willingly
follow him.
In addition to the complete military defeat of Japan
and the re-investment of the Emperor with his absolute power,
the victorious Allies must insist on complete disarmament
of Japan and the return of all conquored territories.
Amendments to the constitution would have to make it impessible
that the military pursue their poliey without its being
known and approved by the public. Many of our Ameriean
experts on Japan believe that the attack on Pearl Warbor
0

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
teok plase without the government's appreval.
is shared by Ambassador Grew, who thinks that
Minister Togo did not know that war was imminent.
It will undoubtedly be objeoted - here I a fell
C. Burnell Olds - that the Japanese character, as shewn
the recent terrible events, is so bloodthirsty and ermel
that it will be impossible in the future to trust the
Japanese in any respeot. The only answer to this is that
one is not justified by cruelties to make indiscrimimate
accusations. One must lay the blame on those who are guilty
on the militarists, therefore, and not the entire nation.
The Japanese must be freed of their slavish subserviemee
to the military 1deology by military defeat, so that they
will always abhor conduoting war altogother. Then one will
be in a position to hope that the true Japan will rise
from the ashes.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.96)
Brief aus der Bandesha
im Pasifik ha
JAPANISONER PARLAMENTARISMUS
Von DIPLOMATICUS
en or sie für die Cründung
STOO
(Der Verlasser dieses Artikels gibt seine eigenen Ansichten wiede.
naché
mis denen sich der Verlan nichs notwendigerweise identifsiert.)
wurde untersucht, und das Land.
das dabei in Frage kam. war von
land",
den Dschungein, in welchen die
Es mag noch lange, vielleicht noch mehr lange dauern, bis
Soldaten kämpfen, nicht sehr ver-
Japan sich zum "unconditional surrender" bereit findet. Die Min-
schieden.
nahme von Manila ist wohl ein großer, ein außerordentlich be-
Parias
Ein geriebener Bursche hat für
8100 Mitgliedskarten in einem
deutsamer Schritt auf dem Wege nach Tokio, die erfolgreichen
"Besitse dein Heim-Klub" ver-
Bombardements japanischer Industrieanlagen und Städte können
kauft. Auch hat er von Soldaten
Z'eifellos von der japanischen Militär-Kamarilla nicht mit Ach-
Ansahlungen für die Anschaffung
selzucken abgetan werden. Aber der Besetzung des eigentlichen
fabrikmäßig hergestellter Häuser
japanischen Inselreiches dürften noch unendliche Kämpfe, schwere
wird.
erhalten. Als Händler hat er
"Freibreife" für $300 abgesetzt.
Blutopef vorangehen müssen. Dazu kommt noch, daß ein großer
an andere für $1000. Er zeigte in
Teil des chinesischen Reiches von japanischen Truppen erobert und
Aussichton
Zeitungen an. daß er Geld für
besetzt worden ist, die das Land
deutachfr
den Umbau bestehender Häuser
auch nicht freiwiing räumen wer-
susteihe und Vetaranen bel ihm
Rypotheken für den Bau von
den.
neuen Häusern aufnehmen kön-
Die Frage. ob es eine japa-
niert hat. Es lohnt sich, etm
nen. Washington untersuchte die
nische
"Untergrundbewegung"
in die Gleschichte des japank
Sache und nahm den Gauner fest.
gibt, ob man mit der Aufrish-
Parlamentarismus
Stellungen versprochen
tung, oder besser gesast, Wieder-
ler-Gesellschaft die Soldaten für
sewinnen. Und da gibt es Leichen-
geler. die den Angehörigen von
die Anlage von Tung-Ölland zu
Gefallenen Geld für
In Florida suchte eine Schwind-
Blumen,
aufrichtung eines konstitutionel-
len Systems in Japan, mit einer
parlamentarischen Regierung ja-
panischen Stils wird rechnen
können, mit einem Wort "Demo-
kratie", läßt sich nur beantwor-
ten auf Grund der historischen
ratur wähle ich als Crundlage
eine ausgeseichnete Studie, die C.
Burnell Olds vor längerer Zeit)
in "Foreign Affairs") verüf-
fentlicht hat.
Die erste Verfassung erhielt Ja-
ruhelos.
Zeug wurde
lungen
Bibel oder Land abnahmen.
Entwicklung des Parlamentaris-
pan im Jahre 1889. Mit "westli-
Idee verfallen, Korrespondenz-
schulen für die Leute im Dienst
Andere Schwindler sind auf die
mus in Japan. Ich selbst habe
viele überzeugte japanische De-
mokraten kennen zu lernen Ge-
chen" Verfassungen ließ sie sich
natürlich nicht vergleichen. Man
darf nicht vergessen, daß das ja-
eignet."
hat sich
einzurichten und den Kandidaten
legenheit gehabt. Japanische Par-
panische Volk eine fast theokra-
gute Stellungen zu versprechen.
lamentarier wie 'usuke Tsurmi,
tische Vorstellung von seinem
Plunland malt
Um die Sache noch schmackhaf-
hohe Beamte, wie den verstorbe-
Kaiser, dem Mikado, hat, als dem
Waffenstillata
ter su machen, versprechen sie
nen japanischen Botschafter Sai-
Nachkommen der Sonne. Ver-
dem Mann, daß er sein Geld zu-
to, Industrielle und Journalisten.
bunden mit dieser Vorstellung ist
sungen sind seh
rückerhalten werde, wenn er die
Sie alle haben sich vor Jem Bilde
die durch den chinesischen Kon-
strikt durche
Stelle nicht erhält. Washington
ihres "Herrschers göttlicher Ab-
fusianismus geförderte patriar-
het einige 
hat an die Veteranen folgende
stammung". dem "Tenno" (Mi-
chalische Staats- und Gesell-
Die Wahlen
Warnung gerichtet:
kado) ehrfürchtig verneigt
schaftsordnung, wonach der sur
Mitgliedern
"Es gibt heute mehr und mehr
abei sie sind doch ebenso ehr-
Erdbeherrschung entsandte Him-
Leute. die von ihrer Schlauheit
fürchtige Verfechter des parla-
melssproß über die Sonnengöttin
stattfinden. Das
leben. Uberall versuchen sie sich
mentarischen Systems gewesen —
hinaus Nachkomme eines gött-
in das Vertrauen der Leute ein-
und meiner Ansicht nach
lichen Pamilienvaters ist, dessen
Demokratische. Vol
suschleichen, die Geld haben.
blieben.
Familienmitglieder die Vorväter
sich Kommunisten
Rechnet nicht mit dem goldenen
Wenn man das Buch•) unseres
aller Angehörigen des japani-
Topf ohne Arbeit."
besten amtlichen Japankenners.
schen Volkes bis auf die heutige
Erfols ist vessucht
Die FBI sagt, es erscheine in
des jetzigen Unterstaatssekretärs
Zeit gewesen sind. Auf dieser
Koalition mit der
vielen Mällen fast unmöglich su
und früheren (vom Februar 1932
Anschauung beruhen auch die
sein, daß ein vernünftiger Mensch
bis Pearl Harbor) Botschafters in
"Ahnenopfer", die vor allen wich-
auf diese Pläne der Schwindler
Tokio. Joseph Clark Grew. stu-
tigen Staatsakten den kaiser-
mensetsung des Pa
hereinfällt. aber es treffe doch
diert. so kann man keine Zweifel
lichen Ahnen dargebracht wer-
su. Die meisten dieser Opfer
heimlotterie teilnehmen können
glauben, daß sie an einer Art Ge-
Clark Grew. New York 1944. Verlag Simon
& Schuster.
"Ten Years in Japan" by Joseph
Bes Belten und 12 Belten
dim Stast und der Einselperson
Opf, rn verpflichtete, swischen
den, sowie die su ebensolchen
85; Agrarier 56;
Schwedische Volk
litionisten (fin
um schnell reich zu werden. Sie
Illustrationen. Preis 83.78.
stehende Familie, die daher in
tive) 25 und L 
rührt zwei Gründe an. warum
Japan einen fast, stastsrecht-
diese Opfer selten Anklagen er-
VOR ZEHN JAHREN
l.chen Charakter hat.
heben:
Die Verfassung von 18s9 teilt
D's Opfer würde sich selbst als
18. Februar. — In 1000 Gebäu-
die Regierungsgewalt swischen
Kanadas
Durmkopf hinstellen und sich
den Manhattans ist ein Streik
Kaiser und Parlament. Disses
dem Spott preisgeben. Hat das
der Fahrstuhlführer ausgebro-
Parlament besteht aus swel Kam-
Opfer aber gar eine größere Bum-
me eingebüßt, so rechne es mit
chen.
mern, deren eine durch CGeburts-
adel, Berufstellung oder Steuer-
eine
dem Verlust seines gansen Kre-
19. Februar. — Zwei adlige
kraft susgemeichnete, teils durch
dits, wenn die Sache bekannt
Spioninnen, Baronin Benita von
Gleburt, teils durch eigene Aus-
Falkenhayn und Frau Renate von
wahl, teils durth katserliche Be-
MONTREAL 17.
GesenmaSnahmen
Natsmer werden in Berlin durch
rufung bestimmte Mitelieder hat.
das Richtbeil hingerichtet.
genturen beruühen sich
20. Februar. — Nachdem die
mer werden nur
Moskauer Verhandlungen mit
Amerika abgebrochen
fahren sewählt. Das Wahlreeht
sind, will jetst Berlin den. Sow-
jets neue Kredite gewähren.
21. Pebruar. — Die diplomati-
sche GHetchberechtigung Berlims
recht aust
ist stchergestellt, aber England
ist gegen einen bedingungslosen
und die Vete-
Luftpakt mit dem Ratche.
22. Pebruar. — Des Raich be-
mihungen.
sinnt das segamte fitesige Ver-
oin

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.97)
zreifellos von der japanischen Militär-Kamarlla nicht 
tellter Häuser
hat er
'Japanischen Inselreiches dürften noch unendliche Kümpte, sctwers
Blutopef vorangehen miissen. Dasu kommt noch, das eim großer
Pratarsife" für ss0o abgesetst.
se für s1000. Er zeigte in
Teil des chinesischen Reiches von japanischen Truppen erobert und
en an, das er Cleld für
besetst worden ist, die das Land
von
Die Frage. ob ee eine Japa-
nische
"Untergrundbewesung"
in die Cleschichte des jap
Bache und nahm den Clauner fest.
gibt, ob man mit der Aufrish-
Pariamentarismus
tung, oder besser gesast, Wieder-
gen. Aus der umfangreid
aufrichtung eines konstitutionel-
ratur wähle ich
In Florids suchte eine Schwind-
len Systems in Japan, mit einer
eine ausgeseichnete Studie; die C.
Jar-Glesellschaft die Soldaten für
parlamentarischen Regierung ja-
Burnell Olds vor längerer Belt)
die Anlage von Tung-Ölland zu
panischen Stils wird rechnen
in "Foreign Affairs")
sewinnen, Und da gibt es Leichen-
können, mit einem Wort "Demo-
fentlicht hat.
geier, die den Angehörigen von
Gefallenen Geld für
Blumen,
kratie", läßt sich nur beantwor-
ten auf Grund der historischen
pan im Jahre 1889. Mit "westli-
Die erste Verfassung erhielt Ja-
Bibel oder Land abnahmen.
Idee verfallen. Korrespondenz-
Andere Schwindler sind auf die
Entwicklune des Parlamentaris-
mus in Japan. Ich selbst habe
viele überzeugte japanische De-
chen" Verfassungen ließ sie sich
natürlich nicht vergleichen. Man
darf nicht vergessen, daß das ja-
hat sich
schulen für die Leute im Dienst
einsurichten und den Kandidaten
gute Stellungen zu versprechen.
ter su machen, versprechen sie
Um die Sache noch schmackhaf-
dem Mann, daß er sein Geld zu-
rückerhalten werde, wenn er die
Stelle nicht erhält. Washington
hat an die Veteranen folgende
Warnung gerichtet:
mokraten kennen zu lernen Ge-
legenheit gehabt. Japanische Par-
lamentarier wie 'usuke Tsurmi,
nen japanischen Botschafter Sai-
hohe Beamte, wie den verstorbe-
to. Industrielle und Journalisten.
Sie alle haben sich vor Jem Bilde
ihres "Herrschers göttlicher Ab-
stammung". dem "Tenno" (Mi-
kado) ehrfürchtig verneigt
panische Volk eine fast theokra-
tische Vorstellung von seinem
Kaiser, dem Mikado, hat, als dem
Nachkommen der Bonne. Ver-
bunden mit dieser Vorstellung ist
die durch den chinesischen Kon-
fusianismus geförderte patriar-
chalische Staats- und Gesell-
schaftsordnung, wonach der sur
Waffenstilk
strikt dun
hat einige
Mitgltedern
Dle Wahk
Erdbeherrschung entsandte Him-
"Es gibt heute mehr und mehr
abei sie sind doch ebenso ehr-
melssproß über die Sonnengöttin
Leute, die von ihrer Schlauheit
fürchtige Verfechter des parla-
hinaus Nachkomme eines gött-
leben. Uberall versuchen sie sich
mentarischen Systems gewesen —
lichen Familienvaters ist, dessen
in das Vertrauen der Leute ein-
und meiner Ansicht nach
Familienmitglieder die Vorväter
stch
suschleichen, die Geld haben.
blieben.
aller Angehörigen des japani-
Rechnet nicht mit dem goldenen
Wenn man das Buch*) unseres
schen Volkes bis auf die heutige
Topf ohne Arbeit."
besten amtlichen Japankenners.
Zeit gewesen sind. Auf dieser
Koalition
Die FBI sagt, es erscheine in
des jetzigen Unterstaatssekretärs
Anschauung beruhen auch die
Sosialdemokrai
vielen Fällen fast unmöglich zu
und früheren (vom Februar 1932
"Ahnenopfer", die vor allen wich-
bilden. Die
sein, daß ein vernünftiger Mensch
bis Pearl Harbor) Botschafters in
tigen Staatsakten den kaiser-
mensetsung
auf diese Pläne der Schwindler
Tokio. Joseph Clark Grew. stu-
lichen Ahnen dargebracht wer-
wie folgt a:
hereinfällt. aber es treffe doch
diert. so kann man kelne Zweifel
den, sowie die su ebensolchen
su. Die melsten dieser Opfer
"Ten Years in Japan" by Joseph
Opf. rn verpflichtete, swischen
Schwedische Vol
glauben, daß sie an einer Art Ge-
Clark Grew. New York 1944. Verlag Simon
dim Staat und der Einselperson
litlonisten
beimlotterie teilnehmen können.
&: Schuster. Ses Selten und 12 Belte,
Illustrationen. Preis 83.75.
stehende Familie, die daher in
um schnell reich zu werden. Sie
Japan einen fast stastsrecht-
rührt zwei Gründe an, warum
l.chen Charakter hat.
diese Opfer selten Anklagen er-
VOR ZEHN JAHREN
Die Verfassung von 18s9 teilt
heben:
die Reglerungsgewalt swischen
Kanadas
D's Opfer würde sich selbst als
18. Februar. — In 1000 Gebäu-
Kaiser und Parlament. Dieses
Durmkopf hinstellen 'und sich
den Manhattans ist ein Streik
Parlament besteht aus swel Kam-
dam Spott preisgeben. Hat das
der Fahrstuhlführer
ausgebro-
mern, deren eine durch Geburts-
eine
Opfer aber gar eine größere Sum-
chen.
adel, Berufsstellung oder Steuer-
me eingebüßt, so rechne es mit
19. Februar.
— Zwei adlige
kraft ausgemeichnete, teils durch
dem Verlust seines ganzen Kre-
Spioninnen, Baronin Benita von
Geburt, teils durch eigene Aus-
dits, wenn die Sache bekannt
Falkenhayn und Frau Renate von
wahl, teils durch kaiserliche Be-
MONTREAL 17.
werde.
Gegenmaßnahmen
Natsmer werden in Berlin durch
rufung bestimmte Mitglieder hat.
rend die 1. kan
das Richtbeil hingerichtet.
Die Mitglieder der sweiten Kam-
Verschiedene private und Re-
20. Februar. — Nachdem die
mer werden nur vom Volk in
front kämpft, b
glerungsagenturen bermühen sich
Moskauer
Verhandlungen
mit
gleichem, gehetmen, direkten Ver-
Hunderte von ks
bereits im gansen Land, um den
Amerika
abgebrochen
worden
fahren gewählt. Das Wahlrecht
Schwindlern einen Rtegel vorzu-
sind, will jetzt Berlin den Sow-
hängt von der Steuerpficht ab,
legenen
schieben und besonders die Solda-
jets neue Kredite gewähren.
so daß allerdings nur ein•Bruch-
rotten sich
ten und ihre Pamilien vor'diesen
Gaunern zu schütsen. BBB, die
21. Februar. — Die diplomati-
teil der Bevölkerung das Wahl-
recht ausüben kann.
Widerstand
Veteranen - Administration, der
sche Gleichberechtigung Berlins
Ein gänslich demokrattsches
Aushebungsdienst, FBI. die Seku-
ritäten Kommision. das Handels-
ist sichergestellt. aber England
ist gegen einen bedingungslosen
Dokument kann man natürtich
diese Verfassung von 1889 nicht
Tausende
Gang. Obwohl dai
ant, das Schatzamt und die Vete-
Luftpakt mit dem Reiche.
nennen, aber sie war immerhin
Aushebungspolitk
añen-Verbände unterstütsen sich
22. Februar. — Das Reich be-
ein Schritt in der Richtung sur
Mackensie King
regenseitis in diesen Bemühungen.
ginnt das gesamte flüssige Ver-
Demokratie. Die Verfassuns er-
die Frage der
B hat eine Kampagne einge-
leitet, um das Volk aufsuklären
mögen des Volkes im In- und
Auslande sur Fimansierung der
klärte ausdrücklich "die Person
Uberseedienst
snd uu warnen. Es hat Büchlein
"internen Arbeitsschlacht" su mo-
lich" und verlieh ihm alle mechte
md Broschtren mur Belehrung
bilisieren.
gegeben, die den Titel führen:
23. Februar. — Die Abstoßung
lige für den 
großer Kunstschätse und anderer
Vermögenswerte des internatio-
nalen Pinansiers J. P. Morgan
gibt su dem Gertücht Anlaß. daß
or
will".
trägen.
24. Februar. - Bim amerikani-
Dies war eine Ube
soher Tanker errest in Tokio Ver-
decht. und japanische Offisiere

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.95)
wne der Bendoshaupistadt
elnem Kriege führen muste, Jeb-
haft protestierten.
Am 4. September 1887
SONER PARLAMENTARISMUS
der Kaiser ir .der
session des Pariames
Pn DIPLOMATICUS
lich der Pührung sines Krieges
TRAV
gegen China führte er in der
durch unsere Vereinigten Stasten
Thronrede aus, "Der Kries gegen
127 P
wirkte sich su Gunsten der Mili-
China werde einsig mu dem Sweeke
militärischen Regime
tärpartei aus. Dem Außenmini-
geführt, daß dieses Land sur
ster Baron Shidehara gelang es
Überprüfung seiner Minstellung
viel sur Abschwächung der aufge-
veranlaßt werde, damit der Frie-
überhaupt eine Verfas-
peitschten Leidenschaften
den in Ostasten so rasch wie mög-
HANSEA
Volkes beisutragen. 1927 wurde er
lich wiederhergestells werde". 
sum Rücktritt gezwungen und Ba-
fuhr fort: "Angesichts dleser
ron Tanaka wurde Premiermini-
Lage erwarte ich, das alle meine
ster. Während dessen Regime
Untertanen treu und einis dem
yom Festnahme. Hatt, Un-
mans oder Bestrafung ohne
.des Wohnortes, Bewah-
 Proseß, das Recht
wurde das bekannte Memorandum
rungsprogramm Japans gab.
Tanaka erlassen, das in keines-
wegs unbestimmten Ausdrücken
volle Details über das Welterobe-
allgemeinen Wohle dienen, so das
dieses Ziel erreicht werden kann".
einsuwenden. Der Kaiser hatte
Niemand waste etwas desesen
sesprochen: CGlott wollte
Im Jahre 19s0 kam Hamaguchi
Im gleichen Jahr setste eine
sur Macht. Bein Einverständnis
umfassende Unterdrückuns aller
zum 5:5:3-Verhältnis im Londo-
politischen Parteien, ein. Die Pro-
Bresiaus Sa
Jeher Versammlungen, sowie
ner Marinevertrag brachte Jedoch
letarier.
und Bauern-Parteien
Armee und Marine in Harnisch.
w. rden aufgelöst und ihre Pührer
ment anbetraf, mußte es je-
Nie suvor hatte die sivile Autori-
eingekerkert. Ein Rissenbudget
tät die Armee und Marine auf
vo: 7500 Millionen Yen wurde
sorsebrachte Clesets mußte
eine so eklatante Art und Weise
genehmigt. Nach all diesen Er-
in einer wichtigen Frage der na-
eignissen bestand keine Hoffnung
Cenehmigung erhalten, ein-
tionalen Verteidigung herausge-
mehr, daß ein allgemmeiner Krieg
doben Budget für alle Ein-
fordert. Diese Aktion, so behaup-
teten die Militaristen. bedeute,
vermieden werden könne. Das
hienfür gewählte Datum war der
men und Ausgaben des Staa-
daß dem Kabinett das Recht sur
7. Desember 1941.
Jabre 180s kam das erste
Kontrolle über die japanische
Um eine Neuordnung in Japan
menged
knett sur Macht und 1901
Außenpolitik sustehe und wider-
zu erreichen, werden die Alltier-
spreche dem Vorrecht des Kaiser-
ten folgende Forderungen stellen
erstesosialdemokratische
seinen wichtigen Entscheidungen
lichen Rates, den Kaiser in allen
miissen:
Die gegenwärtige Regierung, die
wentgstens
su beeinflussen. Hamaguchi wurde
im Jahre 1931 von Mörderhand
getötet. Am 18. September dessel-
heute unter der totalen Kontrolle
der Militaristen steht, mus end-
gültig verschwinden.
Hirschel". Und
werkerhäuss
Don im Auge. In der glei-
für die der Regierung
fortwährend
ben Jahres ereignete sich der be-
schenfall". Seither sind die Mili-
taristen fest am Ruder. Im Jahre
rühmte
"mandschurische Zwi-
für die Verwirklichung einer
der Souveränität des Kaisers ist
Volksregierung unentbehrlich. Die
Die dauernde Aufrechterhaltuns
Bo vdeles, so
anftühren.
1931 folgten drei mißlungene Re-
Verehrung des Kaisers und die
 an der Arbelt. Die ja-
volutionen, im darauffolgenden
Bereitschaft, sich seinem Willen
Gleschig
Glesandtechaften im
Jahr die Ermordung einer Ansahl
gänslich su unterwerfen, sind im
wird
prominenter liberaler Männer.
japanischen Charakter verwurselt.
1933 trat die japanische Regie-
Es kann — wie auch Botschafter
rung aus. dem Völkerbund aus.
Der Einfluß des Volkes ging von
Zweifel darüber bestehen, daß dem
"merin bestaht das Cle-
1933 bis 1936 langsam aber stetig
Kaiser die Interessen seines Vol-
verloren.
kes am Hersen liegen. Wenn er
804-921
Se Hest nicht in ihren
Aber auch jetst noch war der
in einem Kaiserlichen Erlaß die
 Institutionen und Idea-
demokratische Idealismus keines-
Militärdiktatur abeshafft und die
un in ihrer tiberlegenen
wegs tot, was verschiedene Er-
Wiederaufnahme
der totalen
eignisse während der letsten sehn
Souveränität proklamiert, wird
rechten Od
Jahre bewlesen haben. Eines da-
ihm das Volk willig Clefolgschaft
Breskau Hés
 wir eine Armee
von betraf die Diakussion, die über
leisten.
len losgetre
die Theorie Prof. Minobes be-
Neben der vollständigen militä-
mit jeder andern
treffend die Stellung des Kaisers
rischen Niederlage Japans und
sten stud
en uns auftreten
sum Stast entstand. Seine Bücher
Wiedereinsetsung des Kaisers in
wurden in Bann gelegt, und er
die absolute Macht, müssen die
Mutärpartel
selbet wurde geswungen, seine
slegreichen Alliierten auf voll-
Staidung im .Oberhaus aufsugeben
ständiger Abrüistuns Japans und
linken Odes
und seine Vorlesungen an drel
seiner Wiederherausgabe aller er-
Vaiversitäten einsustellen. Trots
oberten Geblete besteben. Abän-
dleses 'neuen Bleges "waren die
ten es den Émilitärs m
dan su sein, was
ma an-

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.95)
sich sinmiachen muste, sindem er
der Armee ernstliche Verweise
halten haben wtirde.
Am 21. Januar 1937 kam das
dabel den
Pariament wieder musammen und
wählte Hirota sum Premiermini-
ster. In einer stürmischen Bit-
sung wurden die Armeeführer be-
kenden Ereignisse bewiesens he
schuldist. daß sie die Verfassung
ben, derart blutdfirstig und gras-
éés, eder des Premierministers
und die Erlasse, die seinerseit vom
sam sei, das man mukintie un-
direkt dem Kaiser su un-
Kaiser Meiji erlassen wurden, ver-
möglich mehr den Japanern im
metten. Hatte der Kaiser aber
letsten. Dies führte sum Rück-
irgendwelcher Bestehuns trauen
mal sein Minverständnis erteilt.
tritt des Kriegsministers, Glene-
könne. Demgegentüber kann man
war dadurch jede Opposition
ral Terauchis, und sum Sturs des
aber nur sagen, das Grausankel-
reschaltet. So wurde dem Stast
Kabinetts. Die Versuche des Gle-
ten nicht dasu berechtigen. An-
Doppeiregierung aufgepropft,
nerals Ugaki, ein Kabinett su bil-
klagen ohne irgendwalchen Un-
lau
Bestiürsung derjenigen, die
den, mißlangen, well kein Mi-
terschied su erheben. Man muß
on damals su erkennen glaub-
das eine solche Politik das
litarist mit ihm gleichseitig im
Kabinett verbleiben wollte, obwohl
denen die Schuld seben. die
schuld sind: also den Militaristen
Seuchen ht
ruinteren werde.
das ganse Volk ihn wünschte.
und nicht dem sesamten Volke.
erste Weltkrieg brachte der
Schließlich wurde General Hayashi
Die Japaner milssen von ihrer
lechen Kriegspartei die Er-
ernannt, der bei seinen militäri-
Knechtschaft gegenüber der mill-
threr Lage an
thres größten Wunsches,
schen Kollegen als persona grata
tärischen Ideologie durch eine
West- un
zalt. Kaum hatte er jedoch sein
militärische Nisderiase befreit
trotadem die Militaristen
Amt angetreten, als seine Regie-
werden, so daß sie jede Kriegs-
östäichen
im Battel saßen, hatten sie in
rung aufs heftigste im Parlament
führung für immer verabscheuen.
durch die
er Zeit mit einer ernst zu neh-
vom Veteranen Ozaki angegriffen
Dann kann man hoffen, daß ans
den Opposition seitens der
wurde, der an der China-Politik
der Asche das wahre Japan auf-
lor
nten und der Intellektuellen
und der widerrechtlichen Aneig-
erstehen werde.
deutung.
rechnen. Obwohl diese poli-
nung der politischen Macht sei-
he Tendens von den Militari-
tens der Militaristen schärfste
Kanadas Deserteure
 aufs äußerste bekämpft und
Kritik übte. Osakis Rede hatte
Prankfurt s. O.
lest wurds.
der Polisel bestraft wurde.
größten Beifall, versetste aber den
tete sie sich mehr und mehr
Premierminister in eine derartige
standen,
Im Jahre 1918 entwickelte
Wut, daß dieser die Selbstbeherr-
(Ferteetsung ven Bette B-1)
sine neue Welle demokrati-
schung verlor und ausrief: 'In el-
n Cleistes mit der Einführung
ner Zeit wie heute genügt ein
gert hatten, Übersee su gehen.
hältnisse.
ersten Einheits-Kabinetts un-
leichter Druck, um die Explosion
Das war ihr Recht, und ee han-
der Pührung von Premiermi-
aussulösen". Diese Explosion trat
delte sich dabei durchaus nicht
 Hara, Ein anderer wich-
auch bald ein!
nur um Fransösisch-Kanadier.
eneuer Faktor war der stei-
Naotake Sato, der gerade als
Die Spaltung geht auf die erste
zelte in dem, wes d
de Minflus der kapitalkräfti-
Gesandter aus Frankreich zu-
Zeit von Kanada surick. Die
Gleschäftaleute, der die Mili-
rückgekehrt war, trat als Außen-
Französisch-Kanadier waren von
vorbrachte und sur
Maten atark störte, da das Mili-
minister ins Kabinett ein und
Anfang mehr nationalistisch ein-
den auf der Ciru
übernahm sofort die Führung in
gestellt, die englisch sprechenden
henden
einer neuen konzilianten Politik
Kanadier mehr international.
schaft Großm
hlg war, genehmigt werden
gegenüber China, die er, wie er
Im letzten Bommer erlitt die
sagte, "mit der Unterstützung der
kanadische Armee an der West-
Minschränkung der Einwan-
öffentlichen Meinung" befolgen
front schwere Verluste. Plieger
de mit
aus astatischen Ländern
wollte. Gleichseitig kritisierte er
hatte sie mehr als genug, aber
die Haltung seines Chefs, dessen
die Infanterie brauchte Ersats.
ugen so vorsunehmen, daß
Politik dem Krieg zutrieb, indem
Daraus entwickelte sich eine
semäs den auch in der At-
er sagte, "daß, wenn das japani-
Krise im Parlament. Die Oppo-
Mo Cherter ausgeeprochenen
sche Volk sich entschließe, nicht
sition warf King vor, daß er
rikanischen Idealen allen Völ-
in den Krieg su gehen, es dann
Quebec su sart anfasse, und der
gieiche Lebensrechte sichern
auch keinen Krieg geben werde".
Premier warf den Kritikern vor.
industrin. 
verhindern, daß swar Herren-
Kurze Zeit darauf wurde das Par-
daß sie eine politische Krise her-
und Pahrse
Reerian verboten sind, aber
lament in summarischer Weise
aufbeschwören wollten. Die Re-
trieb Metally
aufgelöst, was einen Sturm im
gierung ließ sich damals auf el-
Bekleiduns
rt und unterprivilegierte Völ-
ganzen Land hervorrief.
nen Kompromiß ein, der es ihr
belindustrie
Die Erneuerungswahlen vom 30.
ermöglichte, weitere 16,000 Mann
Rolle.
ras spesdell die Verhältnisse in
April überraschten insofern, als
einzuschiffen, und sofort folgten
p anbetrifft. so ist es vor-
die Stimmbeteiligung kleiner war
Meutereien in den Lagern. Einige
durch seine
das die Vereinigten
als im Jahre zuvor. Die proleta-
Wochen später erhielten 18,000
gen immer de
mit threr größeren Distans
rische Partei "Shakei Taishuto"
Mann, die verschifft werden soll-
Xtagen den russischen und
erzielte überraschende Erfolge. In
ten, den letsten Urlaub, und die
Dies in noch
Kobe stimmte die halbe Wähler-
Hälfte davon kam nicht surück.
schaft für diese Partel. Im gan-
Noch am 1. Februar wurden da-
Einengung immer
kn dies aber nur ge-
zen gewann sie 36 Sitse. Die
von 4631 Mann vermißt. Die
de.
Wahlen seigten, das die Nation
Beamten sind im allgemeinen
offentslehtlich gegen das Kabinett
mit ihren Erklärungen in dieser
Hayashi eingestellt war und daß
man àomit dessen Rülcktritt er-
schltdälich lst es dooh durohge-
warten dürfe.
alokert, das man es mit end
Hayashi trat einen Monat nach
ernsten Lage su tun hatte.
den Wahlen mntick und wurde
"Montreal Star" meidete,
durch den Prinsen Konoye ersetst,
etn gänatich den waschen der
sshan hätten.
Armee seraliges Kabinett mu bll-
McNaughton bekannts
Kanada Jetst senng

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.90)
6751
INCOMING
TMENT
OF
TELEGRAM
STATE
Moscow
MES-1547
This te lsgram must be
Dated March 22, 1965
closely paraphrased be-
fort being communicated
Rec'd 5 p
to anyonE (SECRET)
Dc7
SEcrEtary of State,
MAR 2 3 1945
ENT OF STATE
Washington.
Mch:
4-4
701.9111
842, March 21, 4 pam.
Article refrrred to in DEpartment's 646, March
19, 9 p.m. appEarEd in RED STAR 1ssuE of February 4,
not in PRAVDA. Full summary of this article is being
transmitted in my immediately following tElEgram.
HARRIMAN
WTD
Cnlide nge
APR 4-1945
BOR
4
Dist.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.97)
74
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
KAFFAIRS
MAR 2 7 1945
Maroh 26, 1945
If you have the time you may
wish to glanoe over the attaohed
tag regarding a major artiole in
Red Star of February 4 devoted
894.00/3-2145
to an analysis of the internal
political situation in Japan.
Mosoow's 843 of Maroh 21 gives
a full summary of the artiole
and is also attached hereto.
JA:BRJoHansen:MP
OuB

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.98)
DATE: Mareh 26
1945
TO
FROM
Japan, Internal Politioal Situation, as
SUBJBCT :
analyzed in major artiole in February 4
issue of Red Star (Summarized in Mosoow's
843, Maroh 21.
1. Gist of the artiole: The fall of the Tojo
Cabinet in July, 1944 "showed that the 1dea of
military-Fascist dictatorship enjoyed no sup-
port even in highest Japanese oiroles". In-
clusion of prominent members of former political
parties in Koiso's Cabinet kindled hopes for
revival of the parties, disbanded in 1940 in
favor of the Imperial Rule Assistance Associa-
tion whioh failed of itself and through its
affiliates to reach the masses. Disappointment
over the course of the war has been reflected
in increased attention to the Diet as an organ
capable of refleoting publio opinion even in a
limited degree. Recent criticism of the Koiso
Government in the Diet and press is due not
only to military setbacks but also the Govern-
ment's laok of strength "to make a full break
with former reactionary political trends". The
war is ceasing to be popular with the Japanese
people who are no longer impressed by grandiose
war slogans; Japanese leaders are refleoting,
in utterances regarding Japan's being foroed
into war, a "natural desire to disolaim responsi-
bility for a war in which Japan will not be
viotorious".
2. Comment: There can be little doubt that
the article is correct in its thesis that,

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.97)
Office MEmorandum - UNITED STATES GOVE
DATES
TO
-2-
FROM
SUBJECT :
since the fall of Tojo, there has been an
1norease in the influence of the elements who
favor less totalitarian procedures than he
advocated. However, this change was almost
certainly caused by the resistance of power-
ful industrial, business and financial ele-
ments who feared, as well as doubted the
effectiveness of, excessive government en-
croachment on the operation of the national
economy, rather than by pressure from the
general public, as the article seems to
imply. It may be added that, with the
present sharp deterioration of Japam's
military position, the pendulum seems to
be swinging baok toward greater regimenta-
tion by the Government of all aotivities
within Japan.
四
JA:BRJohansen:MP

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.94)
. DEPARTMENT
8610
INCOMING
OF
DIVISIC
STATE
MFL-141
DTELEGRAMIN
CENTRAL
TELEGRAPH
Moscow
76
Datcd March 21. 1948
Rec'a 9 a.m.,.23rd.
Secretary of State,
D
N 0
Washington.
ARI 1945
843, Twenty-first.
There follows summary of major articl
political situation of Japan by E. hudov which
appEared in REL STAR for FEbruary 4, 1945. Activiza-
tion of military operationson Facific Ocean and
894.00/
approach of war to shores of JapanesE Islands have
sharpened attention to internal political situation of
Japan on part of observers of international life. In
C2
aummer of 1944 therE was shift in JapanEsE Government.
2
45
attitudes in Japan. Forced resignation of General
Tojo, acknowleagEd lFadEr of nilitarist circles,
showed trat idEa of military--Fascist ictatorship
Enjoyed no support Even in hirhest JapanesE circles.
SEneral Tojo in many ways copied haplEss EuropEan
Fascist rulers. TherE 1e no Coubt but that Tojo's
C
closest circles werE really 1mbued with pro--Hitler
S8
"1dEas" all pEoplE who in any dEgreE indEpendEnt and
M
E、
known
3
45

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.95)
know for their 1n or
wert relenticesly driven from state
Parliamntary eirolts in Japan plascd
in Tojo'e resignation. Japantst parliamade
Exlsts and funotions just as in pre-war pari
However, relative importanct of parliamtat r
deoreasgd during years when Tojo and hie birdik
in power. Authority of parliament was mlways i
based upon its ability, Even in limited dggrta
reflect public opinion. In l940 parllementery
parties in Japan ware disbanded. Attempt was
to unify Japanest politioal life by crcating
organization known as "association for asslata
throne." However, fearing activity of popular
masses and lacking sufficient flexibility to "lover
1teelf" to level of ordinary voters, this organisation
was unable to replace former politioal partice.
Heads of association soon turned out to be generals
without armies. But Parliament, transformed into
voiceless gathering of prople deprived of opportunity
to oriticize actions of government, ogased to play
active political role. Initiatore of "new politioal
struoturt," as notion of reorganization on new Fasciss
basis was called, soon became convinced that
prohibition

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.96)
unirled mssociation for asssss
themèglvee as formerly aceording to thes
with this or that political party.
assistanct to thront proved powerless to pre
this. On May 15, 1942 a new organization 
"political association for assistanot to thront"
formed. It was to unite all parliamentary deputits
and disbanded political partics on basis of a
certain compromisc. Parliamentary groups wre
facade of organizational independencc within frame
work of allegianct to united war program. This she
that even General Tojo recognized impossibility of
realizing original plan of absolute Fascist unifioe
tion of all political life of Japan. Bankruptoy of
Tojo's military political coursE and formatiem in
summer of 1944 of new governmental combinatiop whioh
included prominent representatives of former
parliamentary groups kindled hopes of leaders of ola
Bourgrois--landowner parties for full legalimation
of thesE parties. In distinotion from Tojo Government
Koisos Cabinet cannot be called openly pro-Faseist.
Lirectly plans of "reviving" parliamentary partics
and new

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.96)
-4s, Twenty-tiret, from
and new cabinct mede number of grotures which
General Abe1 resigned as prtsident of politioal
by Admiral Kobayasi. In Japan there is a tradition
according to which naval men art suppostd to be
distinguished by greater "liberaliem" than army
men. In connection with this goneral trend thert
was aggravation in crisis of suoh a plainly Quasi-
Fascist organization as the "youth federation" of
Japan. Appointment of a new oivilian head of thie
organization showed that influenct of parliamentary
circles had somewhat increased. CoursE of Pacifie
war is undoubtedly intensifying disappointment of
JapanesE population in policy of aggression and related
promises so generously made in their time by Fascist
minded politicians of Tojo's typE. Undoubtedly thie
has bEen reflected in incrEased attention to
Parliament as constitutional organ oapable of reflcoting.
to certain degree attitudes of certain social groups.
Present B6th. Bession of JapanEsE Parliament reflcote
increasing anxiety over sharp dEterioration of
military political situation of Japan. Long speech
delivered

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.96)
-B-as. Twenty-first, from
dzlivered by Koiso at this ssssion abe
candid noknowledgaents of the striousnese of
situation. Japantez Government has sbmitt
stasion over 30 drart laws conoerned with 
has not permitted itstlf openly to oriticise
ment. This is explained by war situation, Hówever.
thert havt appéared in Japanese prdss quite definite
symptoms of mixed alarm and disappointment, and
Even dissatisfaction, over aotivity of Koiso Cabinet.
Source of this dissatisfaction lies not only in
Japan's strategic setbacke but also in fact that
Koisos Government, although it differs from prede-
cessor, has not found strength to make full break
with former rEactionary political trend. Parliamentary
ciroles are disappointed with constant maneuvering of
Koiso Government, which has not decided to legalise
main Bourgeois--landowners political parties. As
appEars from reports in JapanesE press, parliamentary
circles are particularly dissatisfied with parallel
ExistencE of "political association for assistance to
thronE", "association for assistance to thront".
Even with contracted functions and notorious "youth
federation"'with its pro--Hitler characteristica.
Confliot

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.95)
-f..Tweaty-firstfron wo
Conflict among thcse threr organisatiems ee
ivoked projtot for merging them in one fedgratlen
be entitled "all Jupanter political socicty". I
doubtful however whether any one new organisation
which might be formed on basis of thret heterogeneous
organizations now in Existence could actually control
or "dissolve" without trace the reactionary forees
whioh continue to Exercise strongest influenoe on
internal political lifE in Japan, Japan has begn
waging war for all long time. But right up to
1941 Japan's aggressive actions, with small Exoeption,
did not require overly strenuous efforts on her part.
Only comparatively recently did Japan gradually
begin to Experience bitterness of defeat. Now this
knowledge of weakness in face of growing superiority
of Enemy forces must inevitably exercise and already
1s Exercising influEncE on JapanEsE psychology..
Former Chauvinistic propaganda with its declarations
of "superiority of Samurai spirit" is losing its
influence. Frequent raids of Amerioan bombers on
JapanesE capital arE naturally influencing attitudes
of population. Logic of development of military
Events and, in particular, Economio consequences of
protraoted

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.96)
protracted war are being reflcoted in mttitmdes
population. Food difficultics are making them
silves felt. Reocnt call-up-ef 17-yeems aida inmo
Japancst Army witnesses to considerable teneences in
Japanest manpower situation. There is no doubt that
war is ceasing to bE popular among Japanest. Grandioss
phrases about "Holy War" Et cetera, have lost their
magnetism. Unpopularity of war in Japan 1s already
so apparent that JapanesE state officials are now
arguing that this war was, as it were, foroed upon
Japan and has purely defensive character. Couree of
military Events on Pacifio Occan shows cloquently
that this is merely rEsult of altered balance of forocs
and natural dEsirE to disclaim responsibility for a
war in which Japan will not be victorious.
HARRIMAN
WFS

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.96)
NOTE
SUBJECT
Reporting press reports from Mosoow relative to ropis
Koiso to questions raised in Parliament on Maroh
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Te1.#959
(Despatah, telegram, instruotion, letter, sto.)
From Moscow
Liar.29,1945
Dated
Tax
740.0011 PW/3-2945
File No.
eme
U. S. GOVEENT PRINTING OPFICE 1-1840

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.87)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERIGA
2
Chunghing, China, March 31, 1945
RESTRICTED
ND. 264.
APRP 91945
Subjeet: Translatione of Artic es from Chinese
Commanat Pupnacatiere o. Political
and Loo
T Jharge 'aftaires, a.1., ns the honor to
refer to t Embassy's desoato no. 2o3, March 27,
194s, trans 1 ine translations of articles from
894.00/
Jananese periodtcals on Japar's var teonouy and
other Fuhjects, and to enclose adsitional trans-
lali ons prepered by te aucricen C ordinated
Trarel tion Center, Chunrctas, of articles on
pol:tical and economic develooments in Japan and
occuoted arees w ich apsearcd in CLnese Communist
periocicals publ: s.ea at Yuna., Stensi Province.
Fllovine ls a liet f citles of articles, names
or oubllcatlons and aotee of iseuence:
3
"De J" gefa ahbe,
TW
HANC
5
 F Treaties Recently Signe
betwee. tht Soviet Union and Japar
 .. 1,1944.
R
7. "Round Table Con erence on the Livi
4P
Citi ne of tie Japancse Pe onle
sat2 Renmel, Gctober 1944
Jroanes Ele, lefane  bao,
of tie 'Independent'
DEPARMENI
Hefa Rhbae, November 15,
APR 2 41945
Uvision et Foe
 hy Talk".
CS
/MAJ
"The inuebendence and amancipatlon of the
Phil1oines", Giefanr Rhba2, November 16,
1944.
"The Bettle for the Phlio ines and the
'Outlet' for Jananese Economy", Giefang
Rhbao, November 15, 1944.
-7
"The American Lardine on Luzon ond the
19.5
Poiso Cabinet", Giefang Rhbao,
January 31, 1945.
10.
.2
Ca

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.92)
-2-
AIR MAIL
10. "Sketchee of Enemy Leaders: Yoshida Shigeru
and Ando Riki", Giefang Rhbao, January 31,
1945.
1l. "Stetches of Wartine Jananese Society",
Giefang Rhba2, Jenuory 31, 1945.
i trnsletiins, ne listed ahove.
Origtonl una becto raon to the Department.
BFU Jan
CH
6.A

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.87)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATI GTR
13 Jám. 1945
Th 244
CHUNGAING
./0 
ACTIN: 0.S.I.
-é eopies.
pNFC: O, Mjr
Stevens.
mb6=7.-
-fllo
48
Supplomont to ul Fa HBa (The Smaneipation Daßly)
Pubi1shed 1n Y.NAh, SHNS1.27March 1944.
D1  Jara(ByPu 1)
The collapse of the Italian Pasclsta and the glorlous
victorles scored by the ov!t ad Army on the Bropean Gon-
tinuntnd by american forces In th PacIFIc during the past
suvun or 1 ht onths heve spurrd the groth of war weariness
and the nt!war sentiment us well as the antl war atruggle
of the Japan uople. The r strueture of the Japanose
rusclsts hs buen ekened by the sabotuge of the workers,
the1ain of foocs uffs by the peaaante, and the violation
of th ovrnmnt conolc con rollasby the petty citisons.
Intntsl,on'her hand, under the various
ulsea of IIb-ral1s, d ocracy and the prinelple of eulture-
for-culture, are akin use of every chance of publie spoech
to expres tnelr dlssatisfaction with and oppositionto the
po ic o. war ofthe Japanese 1litarlste. The omergenee of
this cefeatis ad anti war sentiment has compelled the mill-
tariats to ollllze their sycophant Pasclst seholars".
critics and soclal d  ocrats to write articles for numerous
newapaper:s and magazines, shout1ng madly such slogans as
"psycholo Ical warfare", t e "annlhilation of the thought of
d featis , and the like. The are sha ele ly chanting the
old tune oi reverence for the mperor and oxpulsion of
forelnors', and of the ShO Renovation". A furlous cam-
pain of criticishas bee launched againsta great many
fa ou Itorary men of the upper stratun andanyone who has
expressed the least diesatlafaction with the Army. The
pr1 clpal fort from which t 1: domestic Ideologleal offen-
sive has been launched by the Japanese Pasclsts has been
theh(),or Public op1nion,Magaine.From
the last lssues for the past year of this magazlne, we can
give the fol owinlstof names of literary men of the
upper stratum who have been attacked:
INAGAnl Inosuke(
),who has been
advocating the abolltlon of Chinese characters Inthe

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.87)
CO-ORDINATAD TRANSLATION CINTER
Th z44 - pag• 2
CHUPGKING
13 JUN. 1945
Japanese language; Isl Iilko Osamu (
), who ha
beer a far.ous linguiet and a Ssperantlst; and Dr. IsRIDa
Naojiro(
 ), professor of the teers'
school of the Japanese obility, have all been rebuked as
people of refractory thought. laKnla Nam1yoshi ( , ,
 ), poet and composer of  ort songs, has been regarded
as tne Lasou.i0 of the Japanese literary circle". "orks
of Yan Cuarizo(
), fa ous dramatlst and
co. isslo or of the .i 1: try of ducation, have been callod
the lit rat ure of the barbarlans". ven such an Impoeing
fi ur us the airector of the department of culture of the
Great Lmperlal nule as: Istance a:sociatio, the literary man
nIsitIv. rokusi1() has been regarded 
"coleutist under the barer or t e sup ortin, culture'"
i o. ov, r, the stately errer of the Japanese llouse of Peers
une ctos  e  U oshi( ) h
been toid in "refloct deeply unon his slavlsh in:tinot in
cstec i uv ryttin for!v le derpiri everythi
Japanuso" a:  rerult of tle nu lication of his book The
ruiw or c und the ruture aln". wrItten for children,
In v. icn ho has talkod too uch about the shortcomings of
Jan. i ecuuse of the lack of space which preverts us
f. o Ivl, a  otailed presentatio, ve are takin only
the wi itit of I I' and  n o  to : ow the onoral trond
1 the 1o ow1:
1 his n : ct1 en 1ho Cul+nre of tren th, 11 sHI.
guy ut youth i the pr neratory ta e of human ife
dur1 which one ould be rnly pure end free and e
sut w ated vith e cri ht future aud fi od with joy. one
shoulc chorisn un toesl uf nirut lon and arch o resn ute'y.
He sulc nat t'e outh : oul lend on y sucn a ife as 1s
desired 1 nls l nor heart". ; I l)A 1s a on, t e sovor-
in uo  the trant I poriaule a: si tance : oclation
jet at a :! e whe, the Jana ose l itari te are drivin: all
t io youths to the bat ofieid factorlos a d Jue pite, and
whe l are tur a the scnools nto lauor concentra-
tion ca  hi opi ion aro  nareotlz a a't tue policy
of var of the Japanose itort
Iu is ra ce od Ryak yo ai(  ) or
the a oren a o lee o uttord the pow Iful
cr o e poopl te to as te n ject o is crae the
hi toricu: lact: of tue pov rty-at loke ito of tho  lchts
of t cin of  ora i tne cln o the ho u ate and
thol posorttn to rorre and sworde ut the ti o of aakla

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.92)
CO-ONDINATAD THANSLATION CENTER
T44 - pag3
CHUGI.ING
13 JU. 1945
for the rantine of rallef-rice. These were used to
satirize the sufferlg of the Japanese people at present and to
hint, at the sae t1 e, the road they should take fer thels
own emancipation. Th: drama was onee adopted by the Japanese
Dureau of Intel ence as a people's play and was pat on
the tage at variou: place: in JAiAN.shen the Japanose
audlonce heard uch speeches of the playere as:There ls
eve ot enough rice-bra and salt!The daily ration of
unhu edrice 1: less thanhalf a bowl!" "ah! We are piti-
fui y poor: hls can't contlnue! Thls can't continue!"
"rop! rop! ào matter ether it Is raln or bullets frem
rirles! Just rop! I ce can't get our rlce, it makes no
differe ce to us! and o  orth ando on and w en they
san the scene 1  Ich the kn1ghts were angmlly brandiah-
In their swordt, natura y their co plalnts and the anger
witni theIr hearta could not be restrained No monder that
the .asc! t crltic: farlously abuse Y A ooas being "robel
11ous.
:hese are ony o e or two xa-ples, but antl-war speeches
dis 1s1ke annerust curtainy be numerous. The
Japa ese asc1ts studied the e son of the defoat of ITalY,
and as a re ult they conc)uoed that the surronder of
Da nl wa: due to defeatls. at a time when the thought
of defeatis 1: : preading rapIdly all over JAlAN, the
Japanese 1 itarists ure obliged to take new, drastic mea-
sures. hat Is, 1 ad itlon to suppression, arrests and
other measures of :orce, they ust conduct widespread
psycholo lcal warfare. he above llst of names is but one
portio of the sacriiice for t e paychological warfare
expeditio of the Japanese ilitarists.
ut the Japanese 1 itar1 ts are very pe 1 1:tle about
t is psycholIgical warfare . Let us read the confession of
hab(), the Japenese Ini:ter of ducation:
he so-called proble of thought 1s aomethinevery
delicute and aubtle. s it Is superficlally inv1sible it
can per eate drop y drop when people are ot paying atton-
tion to it. and, In thls concer , JaraN st1ll lacks suffi-
clent painful experlence and the people as s whole are tak-
In a nonchalant interest in th1 problem.. .. But the
Berlousne of the problem of thought at this final stage
of the prusent war is droadrul. .  . sspecia y, judging
fro theot recent development 1n the paychological war-
fare, in nearly al cases, such figures usual y appear
first ss model porsons and then gradually cllmb up to leadång

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.89)
CO-ONDISATAD TANSLATION CTR
 <44 - pag 4
CHUNGKING
13 JUN. 1945
position:, w en they ls ue Instruction: in their own Interest".
 Cf. lI l (往). or theComin and
Golngs of the roliticalorld",ovember,1943.
Althouh the model poreons mont! oned b okaBare
onlypersons of the ruling classes, Ineluding thome among
the lst cited above, he zpeaks llkewlse of the revolutiom-
ary elome ts. a typlcl exa ple pf the last roup was the
Incident of1 H1d1(
)0ZA1I18
co paratively progre ive writer w o had sorved as the
d1rector of the ST Sla eet1on of the ASAHI HIBUs nd
had wrltte a iot about the cHIN. problem. In soptomber of
the year before lust he was :uddenly srrestedby the
Japanese uovernment, ac used of the crime of being an in-
ternationel spy. hey ac used hl of mainta!ning relatlons
with the o unists. I: name is mow mentioned by the
Japanese rascist bandits to ether with the name ofLAdI
wataru (), our Iaternatlonal frlend. They are
both bel ca  ed national traitors and robels.
Fro the fur of the mo illzation Bor "psyehologleal
warfare by the Japanese llitarlsts, the following can be
prove.
The defeat1 and the ant1 aac1:t and ant1-militarlst
stre th, as wel as such potentialtre gth, of the Japanese
people1:rowint a unprecedented speed he same de-
featla1: imultaneously apreadin within the Inner eirele
of the Japanese rulin clas: es. he1gnificant condition
for the bulld1 up of a united front organization againat
the rasci. ts by the Japanese people, that is, the Internal
poiItieal condltiolih1 JaPall1s riping.
For.T.C.
Typ1st: zetu, Cheh
T.H.B.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.85)
(Enclosure no. 2 to despatch no. 264, March 31,)
(1945 from American Embassy, Chungking, China.)
CO-ORDINATD THANSLATION CNT
Th 246
CHUNGIING
15 J. 1965
TRAN 1
1./000
ACTION:0.W.1.
- 4 copies
INFO:OSS, BJ
stevens.
.▲.
Embassy.
-file
F.
Y1U50
supplemont to IA Hho (The maneIpation Dally)
ub11he 11110y1944
J
the two treaties ree t y 1ched between the sovIst
I and J for te ao It o of the Japanese lease of
petro eur1la a c co!s! eorthern AkAL
and te extet!sr!s or another five year
mrn  eoruetetrovietIplo acy and amost
she eful efeut of te Jape lese ltarists. hia can be
elr ree fro e1drestes the selves
he treaty or e ase of retroleum fielda and coel
1s heo: ther ra: Iwas s1end 1195.on the
basis oi : is r uty Ja was n owed to operate the
three mportant conInesae wet coast of
horther ha.i, a total urea of ,so odd heetarea, as
wel as t e ulready exp oite etroleu fields and expe-
rimental new petroleun Ields eloe the coast for 32o k1-
lo etres. fro theovletort  HaV to outher
a h 1 a are severa k1 ometres wide fro west to
east.he o1l duposit 1th1 t 1: aren Is estimated to
be 0,o,o tons After Jhad acuired the lose,
she could eti act an average of 1 0,000 or 130,000 tons
of coal and ore than oo, Cou ton: of oll every year. It
ahould be oted that the total yearly output of oilIn
JaiAs 0: and F00Sa 1s no 0re than 00,000 or 300,000
tons.
But the Importance attached b the Japanese to the
proble of interest In Northern SarialIn Is not restrieted
to Ite acono lc value; for its Ilitaryignificance 1s far
groater. Northern Ahlta: IN 1s joined to the Japanose
Southern kaAFUTo (1.e., outhern KHL IN) which Is closely
connected with JaPaN oi. If it were turned Intoa
naval base, the threat to JarAn would be very great. Should
Jara be able to oc upy this territory, she would not only

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.70)
4
15 JUN. 1945
bo uule xplolt t rcs tia egon (in adition,
ti.ure re foros'ry  d uricul u e, but would uleo be able
tour atrst c Iasu lo'n fo utack und dofon.
t
ic tle radici Jap  adve taror
re1 sat
it urha: 1 orthritIfron
LUE
 cut ove ro inent officl ls of the
.
sJaraarlrtathat
1
creaty,
huvboan
fou
roe1streatyBy
LJ'to
erilwatr
hatouct
l4. e yr.woh 
tolrort fa s fishi n th
218
 orot of.C.o to 30.C00
fiter r fale tereer
nJworod
vtter wtr
1 i
xi.
t
had trled her
1rorth
urhn
tryets1od
toiveof
11
ordet tJa sou
hht
1
-curof:tar111-
2tioios d cedht th 1shn
orusorr
ovlt tate e  ut peratad bovlt ciyla
ora 1zato n 1Iv1 t ene pro
bluI oiehexche

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.92)
CO-ORDINATD THANSLATI CNTR
Tm 260 - pac• 3
15 JW. 1968
CHUNGEING
rate of sovlet roubles were ell points of dispute. In the
slgning of te supplemantary articles" of the treaty of
l932, the Sovéet Government made concesslons on al1 these
polnts.
The old treaty expired in l936 The Japanese negotiated
on the one hand ith the sovlet Government for the eonelu-
slon of a new treaty; while on the other hand, they were
plottin clandestinely with the Naz! bandite for the pre-
peration of the crl inal war. hen the negotiation for the
concluslon of a new treaty onded and the new treaty was
about to e s1ned, (it was decided that the new treaty was
to be s1gned on Oth ovember 1936), the coneluslon of the
AntI-OunItactbetwn Gany and JArAn was annoneed
In BI. Accord1gly the OVIT UION refused to slgn
the new 11shery treaty. During th1s threatening erisis, as
the Japaneset1 lacke the courage to start an invaslon
of tme sovI U ls Immedlatoly, t o old treaty was extonded
year by year, although there was always a tense deadlock
threatening an Instantaneous outburst each year at the time
of the expiratlon of the treaty
"Ith t a dirty cooperation of the Hitlerlte bandits.
the Jupanese areesors became all the more fantastle
hen t ey were ubout to Invade the territory of others,
they wouid protest ainat the ovlet wlthdrawal of those
flahlne areas whlcn were connected with the mllitarily
strategle reglons. Many flshing boats Intentlonally In-
vaded the prohi ited waters to hunt for flah. They op-
posed the syste of appralaal end ould not partieipate
In the eppral su)he Isaue before and after the CHano-
AUPG andNHA border Inc1dents In 1938 and 1939 had
come to uch a pass that an Irrevocable situatlon was pos-
alble at any moment. he Japaneze aggressors wont so far
as to advodate armed protectlon of their free flshing
The arrogance and pride of the Japanese were really umprede-
dontodly monatrous after the outbreak of theSovlet-
German war, the crisis became all the more imperative. By
the new treaty slgned recently, however, the sovIT IN
not only withdrew a great nny fishing areas where the
flsnlng by the Japanese has since been banned, but wont on
further to prohibit the Japanese from flahing in the sovlet
waters along the PacIFIc coust' until the conolualon of the
present racIrI war. It turned out not to be the "stabill-
satlon of te fishing areas" of the Japanese; on the con-
trary, the flaheries operated by the Sovlet state and the
Sovlet cltizens has been empowered to lease back during

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.81)
40-
1H101
15 JUN. 1945
the auc! o ne!r eac yoar l0. of the flan1 arons now
bei operate i the ap ese.
oroover al the restrie-
tlo. :or i ld o the f!sherler operute: by the sovlot
tute  y ora:iznt'o a an lndiyiduai oviet oltison
were ai o I lo. e I. sue of lant turned -ut ot to bo 
doorense. tut u ! crouse of 6 of pav ont In  ol. In this
wuj   t nre fec' oro which were causes for the unreasonablo
arro a ce  c ci putes ave pow bee ror'lflod ratlonal'y.
.ro t a above facts e c ae. vary c'early hon the
Jup no I 1larlsts erno1
owefore  trlu phant
ovlut.c Ar.
. lt zet, neh
For
T

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.83)
(Enclosure no. 3 to despatch no. 264, March 31,)
(1945 from American Embassy, Chungking. China.
CO DIDAT TANSLATI CENTER
168
CHUNGAING
25 JAN. 1945
117
ION:O.W.I.
(2 eoples)
INFO:P.E.A.
os5, ajor
stevens.
Embassy-
- file
 1(Ibratlon l,Y)
ub11shedinioetober44.
 FC IVN C OP TH
J1
()nrodtuffs.
uustlohat are the conditior on the ratlon of
r1co?
(Y)The ration on riee la the same
as that of lart year The workmen and the farmore recoive
4o(1 o 1:  ulvalet to.00of a Japanese picul) per
man per day
hose above c0years of age recelve 2go 5
shaku( shaku 1s quivalt to 0oo of a Japanose pleul)
and under  yors 3 shakuThe cagimum a woman Is entitled
to as a dally laborer or a farm hand 1: go and 7 shake.
(:1wasa coalmer.hose who
workod underroundot 40 w1th no d1 cr1minatlon betwoon
menand wetheotrally.
Ku( rth dlsders, coal burhers and
1 ore Lac 4 wn the track e, the clerks ando
dowll ive bt.the()
prefecture up to last fal, the ratlon had been3o per
heud for ever bod cut .1 ce the 1t has been 1 go for
 to  jearolus;7 shaku for to lo yearolds;4
for 1c to year:; andLo, 8 ahai for 1 to 6
yourolds.
orecied4
C(1nrocality35
shadu. for the far 1 fa 1:les and 3o for Ight laborers.
women received he same a ount.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.89)
CO-ONDINATADTANSLAION CENT
tm 58p
CAUNGAING
25 JAN. 1945
uestlor. hat about fish and meat?
shlnhere waso ratloningon meat. If there
snouldbe meat a oted by the authoritles, those who got
there first bou ht whatever amount they wished. The gro-
cerles ot bout t 1(Japa ese picul 1s quivalent
toloo1of at ach.rIsh as bought at the fish shop
whe ev F there us ratloning.
fInplace about 1o0omme (momm quala
.7.a oeat was ratloned oee everymonthThere
was no beef; we had it twiee a:t year, but only onee thi
year.hutever ration of fI-h w:s available was boughtat
.11
adatynee evertwomnths
 d :or overy roup of te peop e It was 50 cents for three
plece .1nwas bought Ith tickets o ce a week.d sar
d1: : were ratloned at 4c o e per headhen sarnes
were ot availetle, the the sa e arount of bolled rish
pasteoula ie IstrIbuted ! Ite place.
(alted al on s ratloned twice
onth at o e eachorse eat was aval able at about
100 or e per head.
Icket: a ontito loumommwero givon
to 4 fa 1le . ror every fa 1y, horse  eat once every
half year at lo o é eacn was ava!lable, and even at
that, those who ot there too late were lable to be dis-
appointe.
vlunn e had o meat ratloni In our locality
but thereI(
HiBi:hoe tow1ear the sea and sow
were weli :up 1ed ith l1ve fih, butInce last year the
a ount of catch has been decreased.
uestio: what were the conditlon regarding vogetables?
aYa n: In our 1 es, vegetables of the season were
rationed out twice a week. For instance, onlons or veget-
able: would te supplled if they happened to be on the arket.
But :Omet1me. we wold find stale portio: arong the.
weet potatoes, whe ratloned, could be had at about one

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.88)
一
CO-ORDINATAD THANLATION CANTER
Th 258 - pu3
CHUNGAING
25 JAN. 1945
kan (equivalent to 3.7o ! drave) each t1 e. As we wera
farmers, we did not f1 d much diffieulty in obtalning other
thlnse so et1 es bought the for the employeesof
commereial firm: 1 ur vie1 ity.
uestlo hat abo t theup ly of alt and bean pasto
auce at. 0 bea pa: te at 1om e, selt at 90
ra a d uar at co oe could be ottahed per headper
etn. Owever, 1 ce Juneth1: year, the ugar ration
ha:be rustrietedto childre a d slek patlentsonly;
and o u ar for cniidren olc enough to feed on rlee.
altoodedforakingplek!1ngs
ratidseajarate
uust!oos about the cakes ad frults for the
enildre?
ct: worth per head peronth was
al oned.
lunyiaceit waso cets.
iD1:1cke xcha eable for 50.cent:worth
were 1 tributed twiee a ear to every fa ly.
lbiseit: to the ant of 15 cents worth
boucht for the c1 dre o cracker a d candles were
obtalable.
o et1 es of foodade of bamboo
shots1th : oe re. erbtance :o bread was rationed out
In1: took the plae of cake: es they had a sweet ta te.
ia.e ade candles our elves.
raeswere ratlofor thee Year.
apples were not avallable to anyone except the lck
ven
In the district: producino ap es, no one was ontitled to
buy the wIthout a prescrIptIo fro the doctor.
HIBaGakl: Did the buying of oranges require the
doctor's prescr1ption thea e as ap les?

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.90)
COGDINATAD TANSLAIO CETR
84
CHUNGKING
25 JAN. 1945
an urangs were roduced in large quantities in
oura1trict,o we ate a ot of the.
nYan I the1 es cakes to the value of six
cent: per mo th were ratloned to the childre , while
adu ts ot otnl. he frult: were ratloed weIght
be ab  to purchase the if we ot there fast enough.
uestion hat about the ratlon on wno?
In awe,but ony t ose who
diu ot atet he selvs were entitled.
In ur place it wus  monhly. But sInee April
of tnis ur te yete of ratTo1ehes been changod to
st cia:, cho (e ual too, or4 tandard gallon);
 cl:s, 7; ad rd claa, 5.
1 the vil a .0 wasup lled to every
 per th.hor. te:up ly was found in abundanee,
specll ratlon of ano ws d1strIbuted. But duringinsuf-
ficlt purloc here woldbe a prevalence of black marketa.
ur1ewear iday: here was peclal ration of 5
ohe Ihbourho oranIzatlonmanaged the rationing
quite othly in accora ce Ith the fol owing three
sta derd: (s 7 for dr1 ker:: (b) 6 go for the ormal;
(c)  for  taTersthe 1 er rationed were of two
kindsthe ord1 ary 1 e and theixed w1 e extracted from
drehe latter varlety ave aad headache if onsgot
drunkwith it.
Innai ur1 la t year, the ration on beer
was half a ott e per a.
Iy homde candy drop by our-
soive:.
Iun: but if ou et caught by the polleemen,
they ould Ive you plenty of trouble. and the customs
people al:o kepta close atch o th1s.
uestion: If you had to buy fro the black markot to
supplement the ratio s, how hlgh a price would you have to
pay? And what kind: of articles were generallyavallable
In the black market?

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.91)
CO-OADINATTANSLATION CENT
Th 58 - page 5
CHUNOAING
25 JAN. 1945
TaAlce, beas, potatoes,and sweetpotatoes
coulc u:ualy be had inlarde quantities.
n:ood:tuffs and cothingwore plenty,
and Lu: Iners was done through bartering. 1ee wes 50
cent: per h1 ( pieul 1s equtvalent to 1oo kin)In the
opebutItheblack arketthe correspondIng price
woulc te iro:  to ye. he prlee of vegetables would
be twiee a uch 1 the b ack arket.
Ibanl:t() the blackmarket
price for bea: as u ye per1a; for sweet potatoes it
was .o ye a c for broad bea  about 3 yen per kin.
eansIht be brought to the restaurants
to oxch e for :ugar. The officlal price for wine was
c.5 ye ast ear, but 1t ha: been ralzed up to 3.5 yon.
he Lluek arket sup lod it for aboutl0yen.
inin our coal e, whenworking suits were
ratio  ut about twice a year, they were exchanged for
rice. :hey could be bought at8.5 yen. (sle) A gult of
woral clothes would be exchan ed for 1.5 byo (表)
(equivaleit to bokIn). The farmers brought In the rice
by linit 1 thea ure pot. It was safe to put
veetabie: or a ythi 1 these ots as the economle pollee-
men d1dotsuspect the.
bamboo: were k ocked through and riee traneportated in
the
. 1 have excha ed c othing coupons for riee.
vlon cur fa 1ly usually bought extra portlons
of veetables and rice for the clerk: Inthe nelghbourhood,
but they always over-paid us by two or three t1os.
although we let the tuyer: thenselvesfix the prices,they
were i clIned to pay ore hait wasnece sary lest wo
would refuse to so to the next t1 e if they did not keep
us sat1fled.
aian: I have had the exper lence of going out
-fter Id-nlght to buythig fro the blackmarket.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.89)
CO-ORDINATADTHAN. LATION CENTER
<5o- p0
CAU GKING
25 JAN. 1945
unee 1 ot cauht in the act and had to i plore on behalf
of the chl dre before I was pardoned hey really clampe
down on t i very hard.
uest!on hat about the sup ly of tobaceo?
here were o cheap c1 ars. bat pod for 3 cents:
aa 1 7o ce ts;h1k1j1 a ye; ard Hib1k1 45 cents.
atan1 could be tou ht but was very dear
ow theya!
Oke cut-up tobacco aith Japanese p1pe.
yatehes ware ratio ed at two sall boxes
every  th, the a e a: la:t year. if we s oked pipe
tobac o, theae wouid hardly an: wer the need:, no matter
how ne mi nt econo 1.e.
ue:tio: vere the ratloned a ounte puffieient or
otherwise?
esldes riee, wo could have flour.weet
potatoes al: o ca e o the rut!on llst later. e had these
wIth a correspond1cecrease 1n the rlee rution radu
aliy ne found ost of our riee ratio  were replaced by
Isceliaeou. creal: :uch as taros.
aYa :  ten day rat'on was actua'y ufficlent
for seve day ol The gap could ot be filled from
the black arket o account of prohihitIve priees. Cases
hud bee kon whore the whole fac'y 'ept the porlod.
out In ped in order to keep thetr to uch: froget'ing
tooe:pty.
han p to lart yea, riee wa plentifu.
but ow  eat a d barley are rationer together with the
rice
Theajority of therice wore imported.
()1rInI(人
台）
in rouruary this year. it was bolled with o lons and
cabbae, flavored with lauce a d alt, ad did ot taste
ood. he rice was 1xed up with wheat and one could have
no more than a small bow ful. I got my tomach full only
by visit1no two or three places in suc e Ion.
In restaurunts at other localities, fine oodles

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.90)
CO-ORDINATAD TANSLATION CENTER
Tn c58 - page 7
CHUNONING
25 JAN. 1945
were 1xed up with the r1ee.Ine(北道)
the eat1house: served rlee with al k!nds of things
Ixed up I it. There were very fow ve etable. ost of
the t1 e we had bolled Indlan cor and taro inplace of
rice.
1 often rtopped y ork and alke ong distanees
for the purpose of eat1du pl1ng. veif westopped
at anotel, if we hould fati to cet back beforep..
no di. er woule e served.Urually, no more than a smali
bow iui of rice could b had, a d I had to go to the
rstaura t. 1 the nelhtourhod to cure my hunger-a
very uco.o lcal uy of eating. For luneh I had only two
or three : llce: of what looked Ike a sub:titute for bread.
cofiee, to, mas of the fake kInd with o weetness In it.
.o eal: were aurved outside of fixed hours, and the only
alternative was to co to thecheap eatinghouses to walt
1 orytur. itwas I dedterrIble.
he1 was1i(  ), we had three
eal: a day, but  ore tha
oevery ti e.If I
zhoule chouse o lay off, I would be severoly dealt with
by: upertor.
(2) 01
u stlo ould you tel us somethabout the cloth-
Ingcoupons?
 Clothincopo arountd to 8o units were
: up,11ed 1ust ,ear but 1 ce thls year. it has become 50
and 4u u it: for those be ow and above so years of age
re:pectively. he ratlon of towel was two pleces per
year la:t year, but beg1In fro th1: year it has been
cut dow to nalf.ocks wr ao roduced fro4 pair
to.
u l oap was ha'f a cake per an at 10 cents
and real y 1. ufriclent. he s1ze was about 2 Inche
square.
AYa: 1 our Ie we ade oap and ratloned it
to those Ith full at endanee records or those whose
workine eiflelency had been Inprove. of course they had
to pay ror It, but the qual1ty was rather bad and the

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.90)
CO-CADINATD TRANSIAION CENTER
n 58 - pg 8
CHUNGIING
25 JAN. 1945
sand rans contalneo In they made weshing unpleasant.
ana: shoes ade of hark'ssk1 eould be had but
oleatner ones.
in : There :hoe we t on the raton lst last
year u d a pair could e had ever teo onths. But the
woode: clo for the ch!ldre were hardto get.
nce at year umbrellas were alo
ratioc at about one plecefor every fa Ily.
. overeoat was rated 5c units o the
ciotn1coupon.
thecoerclal fir workIng clothe
wure rutio ed at abot two sult per year. he hīghor
people cheete. a d : old theuIts for oo yeeach w1th
the re ult that o y oee third of the workmen got their
:hare.
 he far er wor Ied a great deal about
thel c othi
1: the1 citle: artificial1lk and cloth
were ratlo ed ad one woulc le called a traltor for golng
aroupd w1th clothes of f1e aterlal o.
ai  we used to wear a kind of clothesmade of
sea ed. (wake e) wheo1out.
lto:he farmer excha ged their foodtuffs
for c othi  ade of paper cotton (Tra . ote - or
paper a c coto. ) 1 the black arket.
 was ho e up toebru ry a:t year.
.owel: a  cap were cheap as far as units were coneerned.
owels wereu It:;ocks units; bundle wrapper
un1t.; cap  units; natio al defe se uniforme 35 units.
orkln .uit:, coat, pant: were al! lt units each and a
sult ofcotheso uitr.
1. C oth wasunit perfoot and 30 units
for a ro!l (about l yards). na! wa! t belt (helko ob!)
was u Itsfor twoand half round:ilk thread: were
 u It. for mome.hirt:for both urrer and winter

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.84)
COATANLATIU CTR
. coo - pag
CHUIOING
25 JAN. 1945
were luit.
. a havead c a onto r1these clothing
coupons 1 to the country and have the exchanged for rlee.
(1v1rr
uesthow uch eretheret?
tayec,whereatwotory
hose tour ae up to( tube36
Jupes.
Iut. chr7y for ret.
t tacewherestae,there re two
roo tnreuo(o IsbyIn Japanese
. size. at a totl rent of  ye.
 In the cheape:t place: the rent was / yen
10rac012.
1liv1thepany's doritory
had two ro oi é and j size a  r was charged.
-lectrlelty had o he pald by u and we bought our own
charcoal anc coal.ho senitary c ar e was two ye.
uestlo hat about electrle Ight and gas?
asnas avallable for one hour each 1the
or1 , atoon and 1 the even1 .hat 1s three hours
overydu!
l tret 1ght: were put out. L1ghts
on house portal: were al: o oe.
ahe lap: wure also cifferent from before;
the were oi lare : lie but dark. It was sald that short-
1ghtedne had bee thur enhaneec. As before the 11ght
was :poken In ter: ofwatt inrtead of candle power. 40
wat: laphad about thea e br1ghtne: a:the prevlous
Ic wutt one..
cilbauri: afety fuses were connected to the
electrle sup ly for all hou:er. In case that lamps of
reater power thanthe pecifledImit were turned on,the
current was llable toe cut off. he cost for a 4owatt
lap was 60 cents.

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.87)
CO-UnDINATeD TRANSLATIU CENT
.zbo - page0
CHU GLING
25 JAB. 1945
uestlon: what were the condition: on chareoal ration-
1n?
 I  year otbyo () weighing
○
. uut thes lncluded the amount required for
ralT11-wor
  y lac we cot two byo of €kan In
ayear.
 a the coul 1 e we had a share of half a
tyo e1 nt 4 kan eve  th.his amount was kept up
throuch out the year.ni: was a lare rat!on but still
Lasurficlunt.
n y place about kan of coke were distri-
butec to u: every onth, a d we had to pay for them.
he official priceforkanwas 5 yen
dwouiot taicu asuch  the black markot. BesIdes
1n our luce here were O fa 11le: out of the total of
B00 whic wore ot : up Ied w1th electr1e1ty and so
recoived easo!!  rat1of 4  5o per month, the
cort 1 whien wns co ce t per kin but not enough.
()
weived,he ro dirctly na ed by the company wore
d1vided ! toiv1e quarters and es: hal1.In the 1iving
rom , four or five per o: usual y stayed in one room.
here were ltoether  roo: a d a proctor was in charge
of Ithe occupe ts were of two kInd: familes and
silu .he e s hel was converted 1 to a big bed room
here lar eu ber of people lepthis lookod some-
thin Ike a priron roon, althoughrealprisons wore much
worse.
ven I ur distrlets, we had to gave
up pur nouses to those ho evacuated to the country from
the c1t1es.
1 Ua: in our place to, we shared houses where
"e used to Ive separately. In this way, houses were vacated
for rentip to those w o came fromthe citles. we were
told to do so by the vlllage authoritles and the newcomer
were from TokYo. Also houres hed to be given up for the.

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.94)
CO-ORDINATD TRANSLATION CNTER
Tn 258 - page 11
CHUNGKING
25 JAN. 1945
extension of roads which appeared to be one of the measures
for air raidprecaution.
(4) un Air raid Preceutions.
uestion: hat were ome of the measures taken for
air raid precautions?
a: Shelters were built for pedestrlans and
ducout: for nelghbourhood organization. here were about
three helt rs for every bloc, each holding about 20
people. a: these shelters were constructed by theresl-
dent: 1 the block, they merely served the purpose of set-
ting their1nds ates:e.
icertain amount of expense was required,
and t o the'ter: were contructed merely to the extont
requirod to apease the overnment.
ue:tion: ere there any air raid drills?
:rills were held about once or twiee every
wee.  ot tiredof practicing on extingulshingineon
dlary bombs. it was interesting at firt, but the novelty
soon wore off. as water meter readingsshot up as
result, thore were always some requests for holding fower
dr111:.
Ie were onthuslastie up to the outbroak
of the :acific ar, but s1nce then the heat has cooled
off.
In purlacewe held the drills in the
far in season During air rald drill, If a house light
is seen, the embers of the garrlson defense corps would
beat the violators. hi: was per Itted by regulations.
nibanI: If we wont out on business, w would
be commandeered without any ceremony to asslst in the drills.
in our factory,both the en and women
mployees :pread water on the Incendlary bombs. The best
among thewere selected from the different sectlons and
compotitlons held. Further we organized our own speclal
defense and protectlon corps In the factory in which every-
body had to take part. All workin units cooperatedin

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.92)
CO-ONDINATAD TANSLATION CENTER
Tn 58 - pag• 12
CHUN GKING
25 JAN. 1945
the tas. e had three sheltere esch capable of mecom-
modutie so people.o dri!s on the actual dropping of
bombs were held ecently a squad of soldler have been
statloned in the works to look after air defense opera-
tionshere was one anti alreraft achine gun whlch
apioured in gocd condltion. The bulldingsIn the factory
wore al cumoufla ed 1n black and all 1ghts were shut
off.
:Ey .ebruaryhl: year. air raid shelters
have Lee dug  at the electrie car stations. They
were bullt  der the pavement about 1 neter deep 3.5
motera w1de and  eters loa and co 1d take in 15 mon at
sost. e:1de, we ade private dugout: in our own yarde.
1 did ot seuny helter: of b1seae in the city.
(5) the1y1cone1t1o of theorme.
"nat wore the recent wage scales for workmen?
1thobe()collery wheI
stayed, the 1ghest pay for working 14 or 15 hours was
about  ye or ordlnary people it wam 7 or 8 yen. of
cour:e, these were the wages for dangerous u derground
work. n the aurface 4 or 5 yen were goodpay and for
womor  ye
Co pare Ith the old days these rates have been
doubled. eside, if they worked hard they would receive
l0 or 7 yo: a: bo us. In all as much as co0yen could be
received.
 In my loculity the dally wages were .75 to
start ith for both the skil ed labour as wel as the
apprentlee:. owever, there was promotion after six months
and the waes of theskllled abour would be 1nereased
aecordl to their abilltles. fter al the payments for
savie: and bond: were take care of, there would be only
ooyen leftper onth.
.UTans: I worked in a transportatlon company but
from 1941 to 1943 we dld not have any promot1on. As a
way of al owance we got pald for 30 days if we worked 29.
and pald for 34 dey: if we worked 30. For satisfactory
service there was a 5 yen allowance Pamlly allowance was

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.92)
CO-CDINATAD TRAN LATION CENTAR
Th 208 - pa• 3
CHUNG.ING
25JAN 1945
2yon.
uestion To what extent did you have to contribute
to the avi: ac out and the buyoof bonds?
a I earned 80 yen out of which from20 to5
were ake of: for the patrlotie ravings fund. Besides
I had. to buy e yen worth of bonde with the re ult that
practieal y nothiwasleft over
ai  In ur case  yen were:et aside every
month. his was for payino up varlous savings funds
the there were theonds to bebought onee every two
montnt.hi: was co pulsory and alternatedwith oand
50 yon. ven if we sent our clothes to the pawn hops,
we had to buyho:e bondaherefore, there would be
very 1t le bala ce left ohad e cold have or av-
Ines re! tursed to us if we :hould quit the company but
no use coul e ade of the otherwise.
f there :houl be a1 fortune In the fa 1ly.
the sav!  ht be refu ded. in any case, the reasons
would ue cnrefully con. Idored.
uestlonhat were the workin hour: and other con-
dition.?
a': in our place  re was one Japanese to
every forea. 1I they were dol the sa e kind of work,
the Japa ese and the ioreans would be treated 1 the ame
way, but the lat er were usual y paid les.
in. l our locality we worked two nhift: a
dey (for mor! y 1 three :hift ) and 1t amounted to 14 or
15 hour: takIne 1 the wa1t1 time In the mornine
there was a rol cal and the an and women workers had
to stand 1 line by turns. as the werkmen rtayedIn the
company' dor Itory, It would be hard to try to lay of?
for just oe day. he superlntendent would come Immedi
atelyn1th the doctor and if othingwrondwas found
with the workman, he was drag od agaln to work. we worked
from 6 In the mornlng unt 11 7 In the evening and only 30
minutes were taken off at moon for rest.  got very tired.
However, if we qult workin we were llable to be ra! roaded
In to the1lItaryservice, o wo were afraid totop

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.93)
CO-CDINATDTRANSLATIONCENTER
25 JAM. 1945
Tn 258 - pge 14
CHUNGKING
working There was one overeeer for ten workmen. To make
the oreans work, we did not hesitate to beat them. If
one lald off without perm1salon for three days, he would
be forced Into the rmy and sent to the OUTH SS.
an: In my case we worked from 8 a.m. until 6 p.m.;
overt1me was foreed by the company when necessary. They
would ask you "ahich 1: more Important, the family or the
compuny?The ni hest record for work was 5 days in a
month; eneral!y we worked O days. e also kopton work
Ing for fear of belng dragd to 1litary service Con-
scripted labor was 1nde d a sore spot for the workers.
ia'ia. vecent y women have also done to work
undergroun 1 theInes hey were mo: tly around 20
year: oi uce d worked without any clot es on. Their
wages were half of what the men got. his started sinee
the raciric ar. horeans now work on the eating place
syate. hey are watched when going out In the case of
Individuals ho u:t produce a certificate from the headman
of the eatin place In order to cet a pass. In the old
days 1f  n ot hurt and beca  diabled 1 theines
he was Iven a thousand ye and transferred to some other
work. but the do ot have th1: practice now. It Is now
à co. on occura ce for :Omobody to have h1s l1mb brokon.
1 doot ow how far rhisaItuatlo wil be ggravated
but the present casualitles are any
inlece to,wend only one hour's rest
dur1 the dayt1mehen workin overt1me we did not take
oureais atthe ess hal, but at the place of work.
worke tw lft: and had overtt e about four days ! the
week.
in: 1 worked from 7 a.m. until 6 p.m. ight
work was  y about three hours: It was eesler now than
used to ue. hi: was due to the fact that many of the in-
dustrle: had bee merged
ue.tlon: how about the orale of the workers?
hey were worr in about tneir food.he work qus
lonand tedlous.hey oy hope to return to tholr pr
war 1ie 1r the war could be f1n1:hed soonheir bodles
wereettingthinner.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.94)
CO-GRDINATED TRANSIATFON CENTER
TR 258 - pago 15
25 JAN. 1945
CHUNGKING
Ya: e wore worrying about what should we de
1f we were defeated. Could we get any ratlone during the
space before the set-up of the newgovernment. Although
we were not clear as to the results of the war toJo sald
in Aprll this year that 1f aIPaN were lost, one third of
Jaral: chance would be one. The people are all clamour-
Ing with the fol owIng question: what is the Navy doing?"
"hat 1s the unlted fleat dolng?""ahere are they hiding?
Are theyot fightin thl: war only wIth airplanes?
ras The airplanemanufacturing works where my
brother worked as had :ome of 1ts forced laborers run away
three ties.
asked
Sann: whe we were 1n the factorles, we would're
rich resource: could be brought fromthe South, but this
would take two or thre yoars. we thought if we should be
sent to Cilnn we would bo able to get back In no time.
ethouht G AhY couldnever be defeated
AYa: e worked two day and rested one day. In
a month we worked on y twenty dayshe life was miserable.
e thouht perhaps weshould join theArmy again, beeause
u oldler's'iIfe1: oasy golng. Many disliked the overseers:
they : aid thatthe overseer: opprersed them. The average
people did ot care even if they should lose the war as
lon us tmey could get it over with quiekly. y comrades
jolned volce: In saying ne doot care whether the war
onds up 1n vletory or defeat, so long as It wil! end up
soon. Life in  ANChünIA 1s realy awful." But if we got
too lazy we were 1lable to be drag ed Into the suicide
squad and o we were afrald to take it easy.
uuction: ere there any strike or sabotage going on?
:Ao strike had taken place Some people have
suoge ted that we should have a sit down strike, but as we
were afrald of bel forced Intomilitary service, we did
not dare.
TaYaa: There wore some Instances of breaking up
the machinery of the company. The rule was that if any
tools or machinery were broken, the perpetrator was made
to pay halr the cost. Because the work was stronuous, we
throw toolsaround and Islaid them. The question of

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.93)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
T 258 - pag 16
CHUNGKING
25 JAN. 1945
demanding an Improvement on living conditions was not
tave the co pany provide us with some rice balls for the
night shirt, but were told to drlnk water. Por New Yoar
there were ofriclally three holidays but we rested for
five days. here were no cakes or other things to eat
so we had to lày in bed hen, we were seolded by the
co puny's officers, "Are ot you the Japanese who are
supposed to  ulde the loreans? They did not care one way
or the other 1f Lorean: were involved. In Hareh th1s year
there was a :trike a ong the toreans. It started out with
theeatl up of a fow .oreane by the Japanese. The
enra ed orean: pres ed forward with rod and poles in
hand and k1l ed five or lx Japanese. Then soldiera
arrived a d fired o the horeans to disperse thom, but It
was ot u til two or three days later beforethe matter
was set led. Two per: ors were se tenced to death as e
result.nls happe ed at the o! lery 1 the vielnity of
(().
: ay declied to work overtime or asked to
work for morter perlods But the company refused on the
round that they were theovernrent's orders. Leaving
early wo ld forfelt the day's wa es. They would say that
It went agal tt the overne t's order: and became à mat-
ter Ior the police. e did ot break any machimory but
took out uc e: orles and sold them. henold for a good
price,we reallzedore tha our wagos.
questlo.. what about the conreription of labor?
1f for(ed Intothe 1 itary :orvice they would be
put 1 to the dor 1tor1e. About 3, 000 of the conser1pted
labor weremade to drl! on build1g an airstrip In
Yun ohann. The co scripted laborers who wore going to be
sont to the outh would say to thelr famllles:If you
find our re ittance: fro the outh stopped off, you
mlgnt as wel: consIder us dead. They were considered
elvlllans In them1litary service and yen 175 were sent
monthly to their fallles. No letters fromthe laborore
were permltted, nelther did we know where they were. The
name: of the islands were arranged In alphabetic order
and only theNavy knew.
saaa: if one grumbled and qultted, he was sure to

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.93)
CO-QHDINATA TRANSLATION CENTER
Th58- pug• 17
CHUNGKING
25 JAN. 1945
be conscriptec rlght away. In the mInes if one lald off
for thre days, one was automatically conscripted. A
It was said that they were fed on dregs of bean: and other
uwful food. e t was allowed after two or three montha,
but he wes soon taken slck If conscripte , one felt that
he was about to be sent to the outh to die g orlously.
hO:was 1n YUBanI and found rockmIning
rather ou:y work.  gang of fouror five people cut into
 spece, 8 feet h1gh, 7 feet wide and 1 meter deep and
got yen 75 for the work. But out of this sum the gang
leader us well as the explosive powder had to be pald with
the result that there was on'y 3 to 6 yen left over. Womon
luborers alro worked as coel washers, but their wagos were
es tha halr the a ount for men. e had a gang leader
lookln 1ter us.he company deducted yen 7.50 from our
pay whlen 1 ciuced tachelor tax and other things. If we
could anuge to ma1ntaln a balance on handof 3 or 4 yon
wowould Leucky
(c) On the 1v1ne Condit1on: of the armers.
uestlo: How wa: the upply of manure?
Cia: Up to the year before last wemlxed our
own manure.  ast year we were rationedkan of ammonlum
sulphate, but nowonlyhalf of the amount Ts available.
he soy bean dreg? we et ha: also been deereased In half
slnce the year before last.ne Ime and nitrate remmined
the sa e.ror evory tan (about 0.245 acre), themanure
has decreased by about forty percent.
 had a few of different-kinds ofmanure
last year, but they wore hardly ufficient. This yoar we
recelved am o lum sulphate only, amounting to 400 momme
(   (equivulent to 3.7 rams) per tan of fiold; nothing
except nitroen.he ratlo Inofanure was l1mIted to
rice and wheat fields o y.Ince the iacific war, mulberry
fields were no longer entitled to any manure rations. How-
ever, the a oeatlon of silk worms acording to the number
of people Inthe fam1y 1s til! belng practlced. e had
a ration on potatoes, but ot theanure for the potato
fiolds.
SHI0anI(): recelved 13knofmanure

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.93)
CO-OHDINATAD TRANSIATION CENTER
Ta <58 - page 18
CHUEGKING
25 JA. 1945
for the rice field: the year before last. But only ll kan
last year and Ixed w1th hay-rope bags. ulberry fields
had a ratlo of 12 kan of am onlum ul phate to every tan
1naree.
crops to ve raleedwere controlled.
hlG1: a1ce, whoat,an1?), and
bean: were plated. ut beu: were ra!: ed In between the
riee crop: rotatoe: ust be fed with the same kind of
maure u: that ofrice.
ue:t1on: ow uch crop was produced?
 contributed byo () and o ( ) to very
ta() of lund la't year. 1l of this was Iven up to
the overn ent with only two and halrbyo left to each
family for its own con: u ptlon. In our place some of the
people objected to thisbeceusehey said that thelr land
was poor and could not produce so uch. fter strong pro-
te ts were ade to the cricultural Industrial Assoclation,
the contrl utions fromeleven farmers were reduced to 25
of the :peclfled amount. ga!n the quota for wheat was
set ut 0c byo for the vil a e a d trouble rose as the total
produce fel short of th1: amountome of the settlements
In the villae devoted their t!me1n mak1nghay ropes and
neglected to attend to the wheat fleld:. portion of
their del lcle cy was ade good by exces contributlons
from. others.
Idan: a:t year each fa 1y had one pleul ()
leit, but a: that was ot ufriclent, 7 to and 5 pho (†)
of sup leme tary rice wus aded to the ration. At that
time a certain officlal from the prefecture ca e fora
vls1t. e asked h1whether a ratlon of go()and
5 shaku (   of rlee would be enough for hIm, and his
answer was no . Then we pres ed our polnt by caying t at
1f ne should f1nd It Insufle1ont, It ought tobe even
more so with usfarmers.
aTuhA: The farmers have to gIve out all the
crop they raised with the exception of a smal! quantity
just onough to fed themselves. Thls 1s Indeed leerable.
e had to practiee rotation farming and made tocontribute
specifie quantitles of things that were hard to grow, to

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.91)
CO-OADINATAD THANSLATION CEYTER
Th 258 - pag• 19
CHUNGAINO
25JA. 1945
the amount of c byo per tan.
Hltaal: In ourlocality It was on)y 5byo and2
Bo. Last yoar we had e lot of trouble. It seemed that
we farmer: were  ot coing to produce anyth!e.
uestion. what i: the attitude of the farmers towards
thewar?
lua. 1. Theold people areworry1ng about the
dangertnat 1s confrotingJalAn.
 Hann:hey hoped that thi: war wouldsoonbe
fin1 hed Far handr are eett1ng searce and the crops
are dw1 el - coneition: are real y olngfrom bad to
wor: invil se there was one sailor who urvived
the 1r!eofr1: de: troyer. He said that the Japanose
havy ha: been truck and Is facin defeat lso, men are
beino for(ed to vo unteor for theaval serviee and the
paret do ot Iko it.
clna ha beepu hed out of offiee.
thouht that so eth1ut haveo e wrong.
T.th thoucht owas a great man In the
world.owever, ow in I they do not think well of
n1 or of h1: eang hey are askig why did he start
th1: war and not f11ah It.
uestlon: how were the tena cy d1:putes set'led?
shiGanl. us dlscu.sed before the farmer could
not produce the quota assigned to the. nd complaints
soret1mes arose whe th1: polnt was pressed.
iGana. at the t1 e of col ect!on of the produee.
th1did ot run moothly, butothinewas vererlous.
uestion.ere there anyhortage of labor?
hlGanI: In my vil age there were on'y two or three
people betweenthe ages of z0 and 30. All the rest were
women. Horses were use for work. Those who were di-
chargod after serving their term in the army could not be
depended upon to help as they m1ght be cal ed up agaln any
t1me.

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.93)
CO-ODINATED TRANLATIONCENT
TR 258 - pag0
CHU G.ING
25 JAN. 1945
AI Uka In our vll age physical examlnations were
conducted for the 19 as wel a. the 20 yearolda at the same
tl e thl: year. here were only three people at the age of
17 or l8.11 the re:t were over 40.
:Iraised silkworms as a sideline. The
mulberr, tree: rew only about one foct long on ac ount of
the lach ol a ure and labor. The crop amounted only to
one third of that of the pre-war perlod. he cocoons sold
at about lo yen per kan, and hardly enough to cover the
cost. ecuusof the Insuf: leleney of labor, if we attended
to the pr1:Ilkwor, the wheat went rot; on the other
hand, if looked after the wheat, theIlkwormr would
not co s oothly. as a result I was told by the authoritlos
to quit ulberiy ralsing and devote the entire time to the
wheat crop.
a i na The ma ure usd was a kind of mixed stuff
and which we had c0 kun per ta In pre-war days, we are
rutio ed to c0 kan of ixed manure conelsting of ammonlum
sulphate a d othor thinr for 5 tan offield.
 eap mur, to,w ongerpractleed
on ac ou t of labor shortae.
ue:tion: hat price did you et for the farproduce
contributed?
. ot 18 ye ad 50 cents por byo and
the ret ior the land wa: pald alone with the presontation
of the produce recolpts in the average, 3 byo was pald
as re tal out ol a total harvest of c byo. The tonant
farmers were hard up
uestion: hat were the e tertaiments o the farms?
inI tnostly ches: playing.
AT. n:here wereo theatrerast year during
the June celeuratlon Dme dancing was held but was later
tabooed by the po lce. e enjoyedour feasts at theholl-
duy celebration:. he ath etlc meets at the primary schools
were no longer in evidence. o hiking was arranged. he
on y thlngtll: permltted were the Iterary exhibitions.
-ome one suggested that theplayground in the chools

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.83)
CO-DINAA I CT
.1
1.
5 JAN. 1945
Iht as wel le converted 1 to fields to plant potatoes in.
(7) c 1d lo class acd ota11 archants.
uestlon:  usl ess ood?
1: y businos: was the wholesaling
of woole. c oth.  ul. Lu: luess with carital less than five
1 lon yo. ws otI co ized ue en eitertri:e. 
pooloc i taroste with i ht poorle o r uch a capeitallza-
ti. oi tuI'o ye, but the us oss turned out to
ve lan. crew u saiary of ya: eo per o-th. 1 the o
ru,  tal n it would le ietter for workers to change over
to other jot:.  co not now what they id In the other
fleid:, uut ve adopt d te: ! lon as the u it and started
cu: 1e::  tat bn1s  u :t 14
ecause of the
ovorr oat co trol, tne production co: ts and the sel'ing
prlco: w ro clearly chow and taxes wore evied ccordln.
to h:s we ear' d u:t u ouh to cover our r  rin costs.
here tre o  ce co penles out of he tor er roe  our
111
vici Ity thore wore two bicycle orea.
ir or wus orcerd o hift to othor work.
al: o : o  ol y Iriu : wno ra ako i wore ade to urge
the seiv. acn hare wa: wort: a,uoo and al fuel
u. raw ater lals wore rationed o 1 e Da:i: of thr :hares.
he u bor oi : haro: I: u prefecture or a : urproferture
wore 11x
he rut uit was that te feors cou'd
not ut un. fution anc were forcod to o to other bu:1-
leia.ho ithor wet to a I cherco or norke 1
the fuc!!
oralrostal or nopreo cut
don to   tnirc or o a fourth. he rat roceived ordara
to :ut io. ro th ro wur o ration ou cloth.
Ira a icycle nop which w
clos ort year.n  s was ot prorperou
e de icallo for lies tut falld to rocelvo any
ration he yua ity of the up iiis hed reat  doter!o-
ratec.
uustlohat ubout tho livi co ito oi hosu
that huvuiitlo oth r u Ines
ere there an
cura ta  Iady

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.85)
b8- pg -2
11I
25 JAN. 1946
1lI a: About 80 of the Id le class and amall
mer. hunts went to tho u.:ltio:: factorles. hese people
enural!y rcoived a outhly pay of yen l C. hey were
treato: : workma tru sferied fro their or! Ina! uei-
ness. ut wo !ivod i. " s  al? way with our for rer capital
hear tne faci orythers al. o id t e sa e way.  he
sta curd of lvi wus vary uch lower tha before.
stlo cid you f el who n were ai s forced
to tra :11 your bu 1-ess
il.- n: .t tre ti e oi  r ru sfer, we wore to'd
the soo I we urter l, uc ordu ca with t e I ruct on: of
the over.  t, thu surer wo would be of wilot the war
. tuerol or, ad the tra afer without ty Iin erlng.
ut tho wo wer carryl on a u: Iess  anerations
oic woro . oriy to save the . he fow vho were a  owod
to r ul: nie ider over I e t control ard co ]d not
worjosiIivatoi
1:t. otuno
or.
183

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.90)
(Enclosure no. 4 to despatch no. 264, March 31,)
(1945 from AmerYean Embassy. Chungking. China.)
CO-UIDINATA) IRANLATIO CENTAR
1 246
1N110
15J. 1945
ACTION: O.W.I.
- 4 copies
INFO: O8S, Major
stovens.
mbassy 
- fil•
F.U.. GI.ANu 1.HBau (. he mano1pation Daily)
Iucl1shed 1n YiN, CHI/A, 8 November 1944.
   Y    .
un Au u:t <lst, the asA.I .I I'xi n (the SAliI Newapapor)
of trt pu. Ished a,  Itorlal praising o the one hand
the con 1t in of ulcide of the Japanese population in
lini as the oxpres. lo of treir ioya? alle lance which
ahouid  ove the hundred 11 lo: benind the linea", while
o: the other hand, criticizing bit' rly the 'de.oralisod"
morality i the 1oxn of luxurlou onjoyment, black markots,
sauotage, nc .d iorth, now prevallin in Jalan Proper.
he edltorlul was writion with the intention fof firthe
narrow- Inded sense of patrlotlen of the Japanese people,
yet it ex ose quite unconsclously the oruptlon: of the
Japanese accre sors themsolves.
the paper directed its criticlan first against
Japu ese wo on of the upper class, ac urin: them "of still
drea I of velity and luxurles, of relyin: on the count-
less paper-lotes in thelr purses to huy secretly al' kinds
of silk or sutin whose a ufacture has beon banned by the
uovern ent, und of not rudeIn to nay 1, Oco yen for one
foot u. sllk or satir with desl ns of rirds and flowers."
Ihe peper cal: ed tho e oroeker who  ou,ht oly for perronal
guia ort de:picable." Under the prevailin, Insti ation
of women of the h1 hest c ass, these broker are co ahorat-
Ine clundettine'y with the proprletore of the factorles to
manufacture al xinds of banned ond. he" can ain
several tnoutund ye: through the -ere cha ge of hands."
The blucaret in rice snd 'ish 1: Jai: is al: o very
active. he paper corfe sed: "It would be pardonable for
tho e la llies where t ere are youngrter: and chi'dren who
are u t at tne ae of physical rowth to buy food f: om
the black market to ake up for the bortage of rice ra-
tloned by the uovernnont. ut reoentiy t ere have been
people who are w1 In to pay revoral hundred yen to  uy
one hyo (7c litres) of rice. t the sa e t1 e, people
are takio pride 1 vylt ith each other: I paid o
1. 

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.90)
CO-OnDINNC
 46- 
CTUNOR1N0
15 J. 1945
uch for tnls catty of  ugar. No I paid uoh more for
the cutty 1 have ot  It seo's that the more they have
puid theore orloue thoy are.
Moreover, witi ro ard to the attitude of the Japanose
people towards air defense practice, the paper complained:
"In the practice of all meesures of air defense, the com-
mon dufect i: thut there ir ot the least positivoness
coming out fron the 1: or  nartr of the peonle hen there
1 o e .  u rvi: i, the ourowives do ro ethi for a
show; otharwise, they co nothi o. hus, when air dofense
tra! !  1 car lod ut conscle tlously by t'e households
the ives, there 1s u: ua y a lar e crowd of bvstanders
dol :hine."
it rard o the oditlon of sabotages of Japanos
worrer:, te paper confe: ed uite unreserved y: "There
are eve. u rout u ber of proprlotor: a d omployees of
vuriou. sactor lo: who. o ot undarstand the real meanine
of 'tle decisive vat' le or pro'uctlon'. They brine out
private te 'specla! y ratlo od goo s' for tne workers
to th ir own ho sa, or to hour os of their conoubinos, or
eve o:  iostaurants for their nersonal use. lthough
theso uo to ve of rivi.l si ificance, thoy prick very
d. Icuteiy the suscepti: le feolis of the worker" and have
co e to ve  on lb e for e a l Fot on tor leave
and ior tno cecreuse of wor, l ef lctoncy on the part of
the wor: r:. ao ord! to luvest1 atlon made b: the labor
-ervice ectio o: tle etrouolltan olloe eadquarterr, In
ost of the factor e: you cn not find any worker or any
eaploye- ju t a little after the re, ular working hours.
ve, tne old workers, to ray othi of the rectlon heeds
or the Jore e, are ab: e't wIthout ivint any excuse he
on y exception are the up re tice: a d o ber: of the
volunter corps who doze while tur 1 the achinory. he
lazinets und sa ota es of the worko cadet: diroctly af ect
the hilti orkers and are rosponsthle :or the unplea at
at. ospnro ui tno factorlen.
ave: the c l 'd workers ure pas ive and ne, ative he
peper recounted "The inconpetent leaders of the factories
are eve: uable to upervise the child worker: who need
the leu.t loudersnip. he veteran worker: tel' the: all
the .Isranue ent and rubblah that have take. place in
factorles and uke the: play trick: in tho bat le of pro-
ductlon. or 1n: tauce, there were chil? orkers who had

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.93)
CO-ORDLNATDANSLATIO CA
in .4ó - page 3
N  ING
15 JMN. 1945
just finishec thelr primary chool education and had come
to the cupital to participate i: the production w o fahri-
catel lo: to koep themselve: fro. bein, Felt horo.
The workl "ystem of women voluntears and recruits"
hae pot bee: carrled on :utisfuctori'y. he paper polnted
out "There are stil a reat  any people who intention-
aliy di: obey the government order to organize the vol unteer
corp: or to roport for con: cription. he number of women
who rerorted for the :acond conecription was less than one
half of the rumber of the suwnonses sont out y the Govorn-
inont. cuses of avol lg conscriptio: or belg called up
for tio volurtour corj: are by no eul: stopned. ns a
result, the etropolitun olice Headquartors ls compelied
to i au urate un Investigation oction". Ihe numerous
oc urre ce" of provl: lonal e ploynout , of "double e ploy-
ment", and of other violations of the I abor Service adjust-
ment .aw' have ad ed further difficultivs to the elready
difiicult o illzatlon of labor sorvice.
Ilo above le on y a art of het the Jananese geres-
sors have openly confesse , vhile te uctual situatlon
must to lur worse han what has been nawated From this
serle: of fact:, we cu. roacily se that not all the
Japuner: uople are ei  profoundly c eated by the Fasolats
or are wil lne to present thelr loyul ity to the cause of
the mpire"uite on the contrary, a lare ajority of
the Japu ese pople are makine use of various ethods to
obatruct t e e: tahlish lent of the war-time "ysten" of the
Japanese a ressors. ot only le part of Japanese worker,
child worker:, woren volunte r:, und conscripted workers
resortin to sabota e to reply to tho p eal for "inorease
of productlon of the Japanese rossor, ut even the
proprletors und e  loye s of u cortair number of factories
also feel lot at all interested in the  increase of produc
tlon for w ich the Japanesu cuthoritle: are clamouring
loucly.
ypi:t: szetu, Cheh
For . ..

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.86)
(Enclosure no.52ss to despatch no. 264, March 31,)
(1945 from American Embassy, Chungking. China.)
CO-ODINATDTHSACT
6.1945
Th -31
CHUNGnING
./ 
ACTION:..I.
- 4 eoples
o: o,Mjr
stevens.
Smbassy.—
-file-
1.63
up lement to   Riao (Themane1pation Dally)
Publ1shec 1 Y, CHih 15 November 1944.
Th  (y)
The Japanese I :vader: have sald:e are coming to
maeipate the lIrI, themerlean devile have
bedrIven awey f the T AlaIt I the time for the
 I to retur to s l as one of the astern
natlohe I I. .t Locome theH.Ip ofthe
nii1ppinoe."
The Japa ese Invader. took prlde in being the 'omaneipe-
tor. and uaned uli the hilippihos to learn the Japanose
lanuage. 1 pr1 ary a d 1d le achools Japanose has been
taken a the qulred : bject. Many treet nemos In MaIa
hav e c d to Jupaneao ame here are Japanese
sloeane .treetOars. rrevailinJapanese war onga re
bromdcast so often over the radlo that they have become a
bore. as oarly as at te very beglnnlng of the occupation,
there wore roupe of two or three Japanese offlcers of lower
rank dlatriouticandle: to 1hiiIpplno children in the
Mal arde. wnlle snow1a chart of Japansse charucters to
teacn some or the youngater and c lidren who wore stirred by
curloslty to lear the Jepa ese language. The fir:t two
phrases they were teachino at the very begIn Ing were "Ifro
and DaI-TOn, or Jaran and "Greater aST oIA
In so doin. the Japa ese l vaders were seeking to dispal
the Influonce of merica de ocracy 1 the delly life of the
people of the I. IlhThey wero tryie to make the hi-
iippinos recognlze thatJan is the Dominator of  ast
asla. They ban ed amerlea ovles from being howed In the
rlIr.I whil Itroducine insteadmovie: Inspiring  pes-
slon for war. rhey haveade & peclal movle about the doten-
tlon house for prleoners In which the life of the prlsonors
was d-picted as belag most happy. This was intended to dis-
playa ak ofcivilization before thehilippino, while
In roalit, the sald concentratlon camp never allowedany
RESTRICTED

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.83)
CO-ODINAD RANLATL UST
 <3! - pg 
11
6 JXH. 1946
visitor:, for 1. it were lmprl onod people who were being given
mo:t oruel reatment and boing put to the most morc!loss hard
labor.
Tho ovorwhel in ajority of te people of the pHI IPpIs s
1s takin a cuspiclous attitude toward these digniflod arrogant"
"1. vader . I tho very be in In, however, It seemed that
there wore a fow ;uople w o belioved that tho prosperity" of
the "Indeponce t" l I: rl . would o soon realized. Yot,
it was .ot lo:  efore facts told the to hate the Japanese
mo: t uittur y.
.on  olt1. o1 ,0.Coo in the 1 IIN I.
Laius thron oi, ntha ongaged in t e ugar and coconut industrles.
But what tho Jupuu: o peed re oreu of copper, iro , chrome.
manouneso and ne Lko, o food hoir own munitions industrios.
hue, tre ror uc lo: of uar and coconuts has had to t do
creaso. by o and 5o raspectivo' s a re: ult, throu or
four 1 lon of to hilippinos are t reatened with unempl oy
ment anc : turvatio.
vofo   outbronk of 1  nur, the I Iii S wore
depe d t  o'r fond o the 1 portet'n of a portion of
rice iroi and
sut or the Japanes
are ta1 d r tln!r c n'r o hipr!n. transrortation. To
nake i wor:, to tr:undrd thousand od apanese so
diors atatio d L IeI. Iia  wi' take nothing
but rice ior t oir to hu the poor hi'ippino pearants
are co po oc o lake 'an d-un u) od : lce and potato-powder
cane: to keth arvato
ut the aand unhu!!d
ice contu! crtu' roi: nnou e n':  ich aro haraful
to the heut. ot u un tel
oreover, the  pu eso uro to jonlouppl: the II
i wltn coo ot, il: s output of he toxtiie pants
that ori ina:y1 o
Cy
mott soo lo or le ea.Ituch ho Japenoso have rou ht
o luxtlc1.1 f Jai
the output I cI cet he de d of
the looa Jajauo dot  oru difricult to eet now
In the.., 1111.
:ou cot :uyy cloth evo if you
have rat!or tic/ets
ho half o1 ippine peata ts are
our: 1 . Japa.
s a ro t of  e u  acarty  dally necell
 the corive I flut on of aper ote co oity
prlcot ro oari. un uu lnatlo t te cooity price:
ED

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.90)
RESTHOTED
CO-ODINATD THANSLATI CITR
TR 231- p8 3
CHUNGAING
6h.1945
In kaß shoss an 1nerease of 20 t1mes for soap and 15 times
for rice In comparison with the prices before the war. The
price ofsugar,  Ich was most abundant before the war, has
gone up 6 t1mes as a result of the restrietions laid on its
productlon and the monopoly of the market by the Japanese
Inveder:.
The fact that the living conditions of the people are
beco ino or e and wor e has exposed the cheatings of the
Japanose emancipator". ven though the Philiprine traltor,
adeerleof pledges toimprove the iving con-
ditions of the people, incroase wages, ralse the salarles of
lower officlul:", and te llke, In September of the year be-
fore ( 943) when he was shamele:ly performing the show of
"Indeponcence , the citizon: of M lia were exeeedingly cool
In the coremony In celebratlon of the Independonee". when
the Jupanese invader: are defoate agaln and again, while the
DoIhem: nemey ha: be putting out a! the ame the usual
reportof  lorious war :ucssthe newspapor boya in
n shout louoyrlease readthe newe on the other slde!
Typ1at: szetu, choh
PorC.T.C
B
RESTRICTED

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.87)
(Epglcoure no. 6 to despatch 264, March 31, )
(1945 from American Embassy, Chungking. China)
CO-ORDINATD TRANSLATCNT
TA248
CHUNGKIHG
16 J. 1945
/ 
ACTIN: O.W.I.
- 4 eopies
INFO:OSS. Maj
stevens.
Smbassy
-filo
FRO
Y1TUAT1ONO. 63
up ent toIABao (hemane1pationDally)
ru 11:1Y0.15Nvember 1944.
(anditoral)
After the conelusl of the   co f renee a new
deve op ert has ap are t y taken plaee I the areriean
ofie: lve In t e acl ic In a hort rertod of twe weeke
fro the th to the Eth of s t  th, tm great maval
bat lo wore :tart d, one after the other, off FotA
anc the Ii Ir11 La tn whichor ou: war ueces
:os wele  ouped. rpeel y ! the aval bat le off the
InlIlI, the del eat was trag leal y great for the
Japaesea part of the Japanese ombned Fleet,
whicn hu Leen recarced ss the nat!onal treasure of
J at un, nlio the reuter part of it was damaged.
Judi  iy the present produetion ofthe Japanese, It
woul o difiicuit for the to rertore the fleet to Its
or1inal tren Ith1 a perio of a few months or even
half a yuar. Thus, alter these two naval battles, naval
supremucy 1 the we:torn part of the raCIFIccc as
wel a: 1 the courtal seas of the SIntIc ontinent, is
hel. ore t1ntly than ever In the handrofAdmiralImItz.
Although the oniy ar! e route connecting JaPan Proper
with thehas ot yet beenco pletelycut off,
It ls, nevurtheiesa, tel o erlou ly t reate ed The
t1e 1 approachioor merlcs troope to landon the
Chha coart a d Fomoon Th1s undoubtedly1 a fatal
threat to the Japan se aggrer ors. o meet thl sltuation,
future Japanese 1 itary action, 1 te fir t place, will
be to re: Iat stubborn y to the utmo t, pr1neipal y by means
of the army, to f1ght for t1-eto trengthethe defense
works in J roper, (I © A and on the seacoast of
occupled territorles in INa. Secondly, the Japanese will
Invade ore ener etical y than ever elong the co unica-
tlos line from rs to  Go () In an effort
to cucceed eventua! y 1 thelr attept to open by foree 
com unicationInethrough theontirent.hirdy.the
RESTRICTED

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.92)
JO-ORDINATD ANSIA IC CN
48-1
HUL3 ING
16 J. 1945
"mopping up operatlons against the chinese ..Ighth houte
ar y and the ew Fourth rry, which have been -elntain-
In perslstently the war of reslstance behind the enomy
line:, especlal!y along the so coast, wil! be much more
cruel tnd desperate. accordin to recent information,
the ovenents of ihe one y alon the sencoast in Hay-
Une have beon vary frequent.his :hows that the one
1: i1kely to launch for tho :ocon t1 e another large-
scale " op ing-ul " operatton
x
x
x
Ior the Japa gso , oo; le,the sad Japanese defoat in
the 1. 1.I L i: unothor proof to ciscredit the boast
of the so-call lorious war suc ess" of the Japanose
allitari: ts. :ear of the war and pe:: i lstic and waver-
In sent1 e te are rowin, rapily. ro ler FoI 0
pointo out orenly before the Con,ress of citizens in
conrs on t e 3oth of Uctcber t at "the prerent war does
not ai ow uny half-way co rro Ise. If there is any one
who think: uch a compro ise is possinle, he is a dream-
ine fo ." Fro" this we ce tel that a voice expres-
sin the unwIl in ners to continue the war must have
been d veloped a on, the Japanese reou le to such an ex-
tont tht it is worth frecial notice. Fear of the war
and the pe. a1. 1. tic : ycholocy on the part of "ost of
the Japalluso people toda, however, are being utlllzed
by the ilitari ts to mtke ropaganda for war. Before
t.e conre:s of vitizen: 1: (oarA, CI. O shamelessly
threutened 1: peopleith the fol owin discourse:
"If we were cofeuted in the war, t e whole Japanese na-
tio: woulc porish. ..
.he enery port-war disposal
of Jarnii would be 1o put Jaial under the complote con-
trol of u curtaln for of international orcanization.
All kinds of illtury oqulpient ould be prohinited.
hor woul: the existence of industries be al owed.
The ene y would take under t cir control the ful' police
power un would issue varlou: order: to the Japanese
people und exter Inate a!! ind: of Japanese natlonal
consciou.::. It is quite nossible that part of the
Japanese people will be fooled by h1: cheating tricks
for : o e t1. oneequent y, it 1s Imperative hence-
forth that ve hould ake use of every porsible chance
to expose before the Japanese people the maliclously
fabrlcater ru ours and the viperour iitrigues of the
Japanese ilitarists so as to accelerate the anti- war
RES:

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.91)
RESTRICTED
CO-ONDINATAD TRANSLATIONCNTER
16 JM. 1945
Th 248 - page 3
CHUNGIING
struggle of te Japanese people.
as a result of the present sad defeat, the aware-
nes: ofcompro lse of a certa!n roup amoung the inner
circle of the Japanese ruling classes is gaíning in-
fluence. The sentimont of dissatisfaction with koIso's
failure is also rowlng. In this matter, the stops
adopted by uI o were to suppress, on the one hand, the
rising of the awareness of compro ise, which he rebuked
as the drea of a fool, and on the other hand, to sook
fantestical y to Improve the work of the Cabinet by
employinpeciullsts and to Invite peoplefrom different
cliques to exe cise Jolntly the adinistrative power
so as to share In common the responsibility of the war.
This fact explal the rapld !nauguratlo of the Cabinet
advisory:ystem.
x
X
2
In the pa:t, Japanese abinet adv1 ors handled
econo ic prorle s exc usively. he present Cabinet ad-
viaor., owever,ot o y hadle econo le problems but
al o 1toriere with the ad 1 lstrative affairs of the
Ire Ier and the variou: Inisters. helr power is by
far lar er than it wus 1 the past. among the newly
), adn1-
Invited advisor:, there are General  o (A
f1 ure of the Io 0 plutocrats0.HIDn( ),
diplonaticbureauerat I(有) financial plu-
tocrat nl (),the defu ctIyUkaImber
oI∠uIatajiro(),ariculture
export (), restd t of the Yo II Nows
agoncyhe.InI (  ) and restd nt of AkIo Univeralty
信三). Amone these, som
AUI4t..I Shinsan()
represent the 1 tiuence of a certaln clique of the
Japanese ruling class. For 1stance, a man like  UA-
Ts Is one of the famous leaders of the radicalg.
YUKA ropresonts the KUHARA cl1que( )the
largestcapitallst of the Japanese unitions Industry
now cooperatingclandestinely wIth ilitarlsts of the
kwaNTuNG Army. OIZU I Matajiro represents the conser-
vatives. Others are much more in a cepaclty of techn1-
cal experts; for Instance, YUkI 1s en expert in publie
RESTRICTED

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.89)
CO-ONDINAIANITIUN TT
.48 - paoe 4
CGr.I.0
16 JN. 1948
finance, rO..hIlm 1s un expert 1n mining and metallurgy,
Yamn. 1.1 a 1: un expert 1 marie tran: portatlon and
aupt 1: a expert 1 u riculture. hese people Inclino
more or la:  to the merlun faction" or to the conser-
vativer political y. herefore, they are to compo:•
another organization corprlsin all kinds of varlegated
particles  which inherit: woak points at its very birth.
as they al represe.t interests of different roups,
divero cles of opinlon are inevitable when they treat
varl u: cocrete rolems jointly with the overnin
bocy, t e cutlnet. horef re, althou h the Jabinet
advisor :yste ct hare a part of the responsi ility
of cI. C at the prosent, vith the dally worsening d ve-
lopment of tho war itustIon. it v1l ot ikely become
an iahoront tuct or hasten a crl:1: In the : CI 0
cabi.et.
-ypiit: uzetu, reh
For
11.二.

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.90)
(Enclogure no. 7 to despatch no. 264, March 31,)
(1945 from American Embaesy, Chungking. China.)
CO-ORDINATDANSATIO: CENTEN
30
C1131.110
6 J加. 1945
THANDLATINI./ DA
ACTI: O.W.I.
- 4 eopies.
1NPo: mbassy-
OS:, Majer
stevens.
- file
.I"N.3
Supplement to ul mio (Tho mancipation Dally)
rub11:hed 1 1 ., c 1in 15 November 1944.
(By Yu Lu)
with thoir :uporiority of ilitary force the meriean
troupe huve fou nt into the il.lrI  and have establishod
stro buues for tlo e ancipation of the i :IllliI  as well
us for the further objoct of Invadin Jala: i OP. More-
over, on tuu vury day when the American troope landed on the
LYT Ioln., the I.  annced its gmarantee for
givine Incepen o ce to the i ilippinos Im ediatoly after the
war. Tho American Ireslcent said:hen the Japanese in-
vader: have ben. co plete'y drivon away, the fyIi IllINs
LuLals will buco o in 1mdepende t and free republic. This
1s lut 1 bu1  sucorly hoped for by the 18,000,000 1h111p-
pino.. it it hut tney s ou d det after having rtruglod
painfully unuer tr occupat io of t e Japanese invaders.
ns ourly as for the outbreuk of the tnclrIc war, the
people of the I i ir.I  hud bee trut line for the dofenee
of tne secur Ity of the  Il. ir: I I. Lh i and tre paace of
the worlc. tnrer the 1 1luence of the  ovement of Indopendence
and ue ocruc, i tr.o .ii Is l.. .., aa wel! as of the ant1-Fasolst
stre th ol he worl., the uto omous over ent under rroal-
nent uzon radual y adopted a sor!es of progressive measures.
restored to the peoplo thelr de ocratic ri ht, and ac orded
 logal eta. idl to the co unl:t arty of the I ll.IlI I s.
Immediately Iol owi. that, the soclali: t rarty of the IHI-
Llri I. procluiru: its abandon ent of it: ow political pro-
gramo, its uc epta co of the po itical prograe of the co-
munlzt .arty, and the analgunation of tho two parties. This
slelflud the Iporative emand for unlty of the hilippinos
and thoir desiro to place ul! the d ocratic forcer in the
ill.Ir I on a uch wider and or? con: olidate basis.
Ihus, Im ellately after the outbreak of the InCI Ic war, the
masses of the people of the . l: Ilii  orgaize thomselves
voluntarlly to coope: ate 1th the American and hilip Ine

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.87)
CO-ONDINATD THANSLAFICN CNTA
1m 23O - PABO 2
CHUNGLING
6 J. 1945
troups to i1 ht agal  t the Invaders. They started a guerilla
warfare benin: the onemy linos to uttack and embarrass the
Japunoso und have ade the Japanese ad lt even today, after
two jeur' oocupatlo , that "there ure : til" renant of
enemy soldlers" on the I. IrlIhs. "Theso guerillas ven
made their u , earance on tho outakirts of wnTIla." "The sl-
tuction 1s oven worse 1 t e hills in central LUzon north of
Bau It. lhore are too many umsl: Ialands. It has been very
dif:icult Lo :upires: the . (Ur. Japanene JIKYorU Jono",
or 1 tel 1 nco  carront 1tuat1on", 5 May 1944.) Aceord-
1o roports puullshe in the "rerican piplomatic Gazette'
of 1 uu t 194: (:), the larcer part of 1. yYn: (?) and
Ln  i: o! 1 Jupanece hud.he uber of Japanese
tro ps i. v ry s ul . Thoy are. oreovr, : cut ered and limitod
to h varlous port anc harbor:. he guorll:as are vory mo-
tive o. I: lands 1 tho couth. here aro  o e provincee w ore
fre local over. onts have been established. us is happening
in omu ciiute. hlno: u ureus por ind the onony Ines, the
ni ippi.o putriot: ure capable of providing first ald and
protectio.. ior parachuti  serican air force crews in areus
where they wlll probai ly lunc. i: tho a:t, uosVT, the
A.erlcu iroslce t, ore : an oice pralsed the herol:n and
finti ablilt of the hi11 o:. urin the recent
Aericu.. la din .Y  l  te contrilution rendered
by tne I..lli: 1 o ueril us was very reat. General nCakTHUR
hae s uciu  expru.  ed I: rutitude to the hilippinos who
helpuo te a ericin troo 8 1i t oir la din operat lons. The
ena ciput lon of the . hil1:1 o. hus now ben closely 11 kod
with the secur Ity and peace of ho holo world he horole
 tl-Jupaoso. trus e made by tho people of the  I Irs Iss
has advunce. one : top forvard the war for the emancipation of
tholr ov" couatry. It hu, at tlo :a o 1 e, hortened the
t1 u ior cru nln the Japanose ug re sors by the joint effort
01.110.
11
The crant lne of in, penoonoo to he HIl Ii, IN Ir te
pre-d tr indo icy ofN1a  IA. The
Yulu indepondonce nct was ratifle by .resident Ocs Val.
and was passod und uc epte by the ongrers of the . I.IliI.s
te, yuur. aco. It wus stipulat ihat the Indopendont nepub-
lic of tne I 1..11. I .hould .e e: tablished on July 14th,
194o. sut th1: .ct was for ulated by those amerlcan members
of the ..ouce. no re rose ted the I torest of agricultural
roup: wo capitu I. t: of tle uoar indu try with a viow to
obatuct o the iortat'ow-prlce ar ad coco ut
oi1 fi o the. 1 i1 ..ha prl cipat object f the crart ers
of thi nct wure io top t e Iree trace betwee the U Ii..

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.82)
COORDINAT
1h 30 - 1a 3
r.1
6 JUN. 1945
STaim and the I.Il i.. li. , to oroct tariff barrier", and to
rest. lct tno frou 1 I rat!o: o1 Ihilip inos Into the  ItaD
This. 1t 1s qulte obvIou: thut hould t e hilip Iror ob-
tal. thoir Lr epondenco u der  uch a: act, a ort sovere blow
wo..lu bo ivo. to tho co o ic life of the  I I I' s whose
population roulo :1 k 1abo a state of povort, and unomploy-
meit (for thero are 4,,co poople ! the I I Ive I LDo
depandent on the coco ut I cu try for their livel ihoo and
z,cou, Cou puoplo cupu ic t the lear I du:try.) but ow
the Ituati 1 ulte dillore t. I te face o1 the nonace
o1 uor.   Jupaloso  ur ci.t.,  I terests of the amoricans
und tlo  il1, 1 o. ur Ide ticul. Ith a vlew to lafent1
thelr co o. sno y th se two peop or lave teo iightine hand
In na ie Ior thre ear: alroad:. he pro: le of Indepond neo
for the ini 1p 1 os ust ot le considored fron the unelo of
tie private iture.1. I a fon  nmericeI capita?1 t:.
.or vnoulc it vu co: it rod fro tho an le of 1 terests of a
fow 1 tie Ini:1 1 o uar cupital 1:ts who have lo t their
natio  co. ci u ters.he prol l houl to con idered from
the a ol u tl I cepo doce und IIterty to all atlon
with t u rul o. joct f te de ocrucy a d peace of the whole
worlc, : o ar to ir y  fa! se I depe donce grantod to the
: i i i y e : pa uee a re sorr. hir I in confor Ity
wite tho prI c!pie clurl" 'ald don i t e  Ic harter
and 1 tu eclarat! of tho
 n tero ce. iroblor: of
rallol,1 covor u oco o 1c ndju: ent of ne : I I1I.
ultro wir w d the lholpof the
心who.
nowev r, co ot uhu u o of  re : roll  prete te to do-
la tue ru tl  ol 1 epe e ce. a! th re rol es can be
aolve ud prororl1r the I a a depe
dent tulo.ox resld t  ha: b 'ected for te
fourth tur.1u iv.  furthir uara tee of the pro
per. utio 1 o av: co e11lo l cepende ce
It reure tici lcl tred of e i
r,to 1.ce to ,pe:e ora
hae boau o to cecli  co doutt ofre de't 
the lheor o o -rast ne 1 I trat f t over ent adve
cet o ie rce  thehii
pliu vo u 1 t art. 1: 1 cres: 1 . or o 1t1c 1 partiee are
1: tou pu oco: of :or atto: d o-. ef ct rartie whioh were
dis oivod L : rce aro r viv! ! lertie  d cllque: have
bee activo I wi 1 the poiitici] a ithority of a: 1 depo -
dent reputiic. put t u I pendl ol 1 atlon of the people of
the I i. i.i at e pre entet ere the ptre gthe I g of

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.86)
CO-ONDIN ANSLAICN UNT
T 2 - pc 4
CHUN.I IG
6 JUN. 1945
the fi htin power and the obilizatio of uny ore poople
to cooper lo itn the a erloun troupr ir the fighting so as
to drive usay the Jupa ese Invuder: und to emanclpate the
nationsl territorlee as ear!y us po: il o. It is those who
have coulrliutod ost 1 tho sur of e ancipatlon who will
acquire the o:t confide ce  d sup ort of the wide masse
of the oor, . o wll have moat a' aftor the war, and who
wil co unc a leual o: ll lot to coutry.
y1.t. sz, 
ror...G.
ED

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.78)
(Enclosure no. 8 to despatch no. 264, March 31,)
(1945 from American Embassy, Chungking, China.)
30 JaN. 1945
ACTION:O.N.I.
- 4 coples
Phro: Os, aj
stevens.
mbesy
- file
3
()
1vr154
()
 c
it t luct thut troop  dor  have lnded
iy
a1oclurlo of
tho bat ior o ut aok u  dof e of the jifIn.
le uis u, iiaw Itn ino ave tua? victory . the alde of
the .. ee.uc., lL. t a ce e, what consequenooe will
tl: :  r t th Jpe o r co?
ot  IIr.t  t the rolo played by tho PHI. IIrI.
1 p wur  ho Jape eno eoonorlc :yrtor
o ur.t t nJ.n wn  xicatad with vi
torof tht
cori  u ot  fu cle atot thep-cal ed roat
art : lut ic cpro. pert, phere. the Greator at
1. thopri 1 a. the1 were a sig od the
dut v  o ce tral bace of coiola Ight
I du: try. i th eyes of Japanese Iutocratr, the rich
raw ut lu produoine rlo i the thee I. at
the ti e wae ulr ad ut their aroltror Irponal. I order
to squs ze e lauur u  raw aterla in th ro lo the
Ituloplu for thotho role of
chan to coct u a o theart  I. but
snui a : o rve u: a rocuci co tor of a sral quentity
o I o  trade of que
Lotwene Jup oro the
ifter
t p. 1 o1 thl. Ioct, o apanose l udlato
chiit c part   e r ad woa ti, to the vulue of
,000,0, 0 p:o. 1.00,000, 00) wh1ch they had
plu. c roc iro tho  1. 1 to re 1 h u d:trethon
the tra portat!o fac! to f or ad harbor: of the
or over. put  .1: ar. plu t equipmont

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.83)
5
UINATD TRANSLATIO CNT
T-
80 JAN. 1968
G.INO
ai the value of b0, 000, 0o0 pesos was approprlated to
resue the productlon of dally consumere' goods (while the
iaroer part of toe plunt equlpment 1n other occupled ter-
ritorl l te s har beon ranafered to be used
1 connaction Itn the exp oltation of natural rosourees.)
nt tho .a e t1 o, aeverai Ilght Industry plants In Osak
(witn a total cupltallzut1on of over 4c,000,000 yon) have
bee oved ro the  ii. Iir I s. of courae, thi: d res ot
"hou to loast I te t!  t e pert of Jal to lidustrl-
alize tne    ;  the co trar, it lo jurt by moans
of tosu ilaustrles that their funotlo as a ource of
sup 1y of ruw aturl. ls 1: con: p'idated. (For inttance,
to tur 1rn :oca: y the raw eturiuls nended for the tox-
tile Iuu try, which i: ju.t oe of uon t durtrlos, the
Ini: ip Inos havo boen co pelled co  pnvert thelr sugar
ria tat! in. to cot on.) but, toda, thip attonpt to oolo
uize tne  i. i i. has been crurhe under t e offonsive
of the 1. les. ot oy Itr f metlon ar u ohannel" oon-
uect1 J r. ut tho o end, and Freneh T Do-ChHA,
land theCIt th
othor vas il ifle , Lut the u ount of Japaneso capital
I.ve ted In llcht i dustrler thore wil tiso be lost.
. econd!y, although the I portant rosourcer doponlted
In the   I 1 o ure le s thu those ! other parts of
wouthea:t  In, the affect con iderab) te Japanere war
Indu: trie I. Bit   thet havo eaked out
fros Jn prove the he pri e!pal rource of uprly of
raw aturlal: for the etal ureice: tdust: les in the nowly
devo oped I ctrlal lon of (  and uha
ouhIsth Ir th
ni . I L  whicn ar producln 71z, ooo tone annually.
oreover, lue cd 1 s, nhlch are produotng ,030, 000
ounces (oo. Ist1 of on! y  : a 1 portlo of the depoelt)
of ol jor,  c urs a to dre f te ostab-
lishet or a worid of brow onotar  sre. besldee,
there Io the chrore ie 1 t e I. ir I. loin  whose
product: uave been cnip, ed to eup: 1, the Japannse munitione
lndu try 1: r 0.n.
In tho plunder!  of ru: o rcon In the I I. 1. IN to
eniarce tho productlo of  Ilitary  up, Iles t o Japenese
lutoorat: are cecomin al? the  ore fattened. he year'y
copper output I zbo, cc ton 1. o. co-p'etely undor the
coutrol of the Japemose  It financlul c? ique.he

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.81)
COONDINATD RANLAION CNT
75pc
O IN 
S0 JAN. 1948
a se , ho ux r yearutput once roahed
oou,  to, 1 al o under the control of. U Io 0, wlth
tho exeept o oi a part mhlch I: hold by I I. In the
pursuit si rofits iro the co'onlel I Ji Ts, thore
was coflit tetheIrI ad It th tm
whe t e pra c reasur of the reasr of xplolta-
t1o 1 the
wa: to he o: tabllrhed in
u4.tryinetomake un of
thelr  cotheI (has Invostd
over r,oret ao,oo poo In
theo hiBranoh Treasury"
astesvorreoelr owInvertmontBut
the si srsur f xploltatlo  the
佐佐木
tolor1t
ut  coe 
and
'ce fI s was eventully
OVOr
ve tho herp arkot in AnILa
whicn wao e ovor dor the o opoly of It I w In-
vudoc thor i  ci cliques.If  tak
t: 1: ; oi 1 to on, Iicration, It wi) not bo difrloult
for  d : tu d tno i ide stor that the post of
dapano ba. or o te I i! I had to bo Ivon to
rthI
tre tito iI o trultors were performing the
ecra csl edIndependonce
ucul   it oule e perfecty cloar to
ttowhtheIs
are recapture  o  les.  that Imo, not on y wil!
the sea route betwee coia d the  s de complotoly
out by the ni 1 s.  o wll thus obtal the earost ad
mort co. vo lot sprl oard to up roach the CHI A Cont!
ne t; Lt e Japa es anition: Industries In Fe O.n
wl: also be diroot al  ected by the oss of the reaouroes
from t e I. if. 1  I crousi the product lon of the
unition. lucu: try in Jat lc wll be imposible as
 res it o! tno elortuc: of resouroeu caused by the aover-
ance of J from tho. i.  Those finanolal olique
who have Lost thelr Intereate In the IllIP Ills and soUtH
 wil! voice thoir die atlsfaotloi and direct their cri-
licl.  aaltvI v o that crack wil? take place within
the l.  (ublnot wnlch has boen trying to recruit varlous
ollquus of the Japunese rlin clarses withi: itself. From
thi: vo ca be porfectly cure that roIso certainly will not

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.86)
CO-UINAPDANDIA IO GNT
Tn 7o - a0 4
CHUNIG
30 JAN. 1946
glve up the i 1. IiiI nithout put Ing up a atiff and
stubbor ro: irta ce.
Dut suould the Japanose strugele tur, out to be in
valn, should the 1 li l be eventual'y recaptured by
the allios a d the resourcor fror the uty be oventually
out off, what nould the Japanese Invaders do about thoir
osono ic uf airs?
nt pari us ut the beginiin of the al led offonsive
In the nat Je of the lny in the year before last, the
Japanuse becu. to I ten: If: the expioltatlon of coel, tron
nd alu luiun ahwle rock: In  C In and Orh CIsa.
and tne have enlarced te extreotlon and refl ine of arti-
flole potrojou" with a vlow of ostabllshin an eoonon1-
call solf-eufficlout Jai  Cn IA chl  blook. At the
sa e li , a project of lur e-quantit :torage of such
resourcus as petrolou, ti, lead, a ga ese, ohrome, nieked,
and I ubtor, wlen were usua! y 1 ported f, or the .Outh bhas
und of wnlon there is on y a mal output in oocupled
chlnese lerritorle , he: boe indortakan. Aocording to
estltos ade  the are 1 ue of  nsIa" of thi
yoar, the totul qua.tlty of  cn rusour os stored up will
probabiy ai tal tre proso t scule of Japenoso produotion
for a perio of u oar.
. r: ity, he :o-cul d Ja   IA-CIA Biook
nad ot o 1 teo advert1zod lce 40 when 0Y
Fu 1aru wu: iru lor or to recond t1 e but had long boen
undor uxec itis a a at ona? po ic alread deoidod upon.
Slnce tho , about  of the total Japanase init ons In-
durtr : boe st abllrhed I, or hlfted to.  chinIA.
 a with  vw to tn the
occupied cnl upe ter: itorior i to cources for Japanese
Induttrloe of raw aturia)s which can he coneurd on t'
spot. ut thl: fa ciful project for olf-sufriclency as
has boo. ad It led by he Japan ose ar y orean, the o I hI
dutli l  nat not teen roalized, becsuse of the
nerolc re Latance put up by the Chimese Ighth Route Army,
the uw rourt r a  the chinese poople of the emancl-
pated terrltorlea. herefore, even today, Jaial Is etil!
dopenciet o the for a conniderable qua tity of
Indlspen: able Industrial resources. o eay nothin of
potroleu and rubber, whlch ure obtalnable on'y fro: the
uuih ost of thn colored metals, ch a ti,
nioke, or unca ese, are auppl1e 70 or 75 fro the
sull . ve for Iron ore and I o for the steel

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.86)
CO-URDINATBD TAANSLA IO CNTR
70
CH  NG
30 JAN. 1945
and Iron Industry, Jara depends o the o TH as for
approxl ately , to zo of the total uentity neoded.
Today, whe: Jain: le tr Ing hard to defond tho pHIl Ip-
I1 , ahe hus attacked and ocupled L I.I. and I.Iucow
at the vano t1e. his slaply shone the Inovltable
Jupa. eso atte pt to se k alother channel leading to the
sources of sourcos I the ll s in antlolpatlon of
the fal: o: t.o  I I   to the allios. he Japanose
coresuors ure co tomplating the openin by force of 
contl ental ine of communlont!on to transport the resources
fron the  s at the tIme when the Government of
C ra1 ahok a the n I  1: corrupt end Impotont.
iypiet zet, Choh
For C.T.C.
T.HB.

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.95)
(Enclosure no. 9 to despatch no. 264, March 31,)
(1945 from American Embassy, Chungking. China.)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 303
CHUNGKING
TRANSLATION: O.W.I./GUO DA
ACTION: O.W.I.
u
oss, ss
Filo
FROM: "NEAY INTELLIGENCE NO. 64,
Bupplement to GIEFANG RHBAO (The Emancipation Dally),
Publ1shed in YaNaN, 31 January 1945.
THe AIICAN LANDING UN LUZON AND THE KOISO CABINET. (By Yu LU)
On the 9th of this onth, American troops landed victor1-
ously on the Island of  UZON with a big and powerful forco.
Up to the l4th of the same month, they succeeded 1n taking
under control a seacoast of 45 iles in length and in thrusting
Into the inland 28 riles. They are now only several scores of
miles fi om MAnILA. In accordance with the news received, it
seems that the American troops have not yet recelved any kind
of large-scale and stubborn resistance from the Japanese.
This does not mean, however, that the Japanese are not will-
Ing, or are not capable of putting up a resistance; for they
understand quite clearly the importance of LUZON in the
defence of the Continent and JAPAn Proper. They will certainly
not ive up the 1sland without fighting hard. We can easlly
predict that the battle for LUZoN will be far more fierce than
that for LeYTe Island. The Japanese will resist the Amerioan
troops with all their forces and will make use of the weakness
of the long-distance lines of communication of the American
troops to exhaust their strength, so that they may be able to
"find a volden chance" to come out to fight a battle of doef-
slon with the Americans. But facts snow clearly that irrespeo.
tive of the stubbornness of the Japanese, as long as the
fighting power based on physical conditlons is the last deciding
factor, the spirit of the "speclal attacking squads" of the
Japanese invaders will not be able to cope with the superlority
in boats and ships, airplanes, tanks and guns of the Amerioan
troops. Moreover, the present operation of the Americans is
not necessarity aimed at the complete occupation of the LUzoN
Island. As soon as they can secure a more or less stable
stand on the 1sland which will enable them to provide protec-
tion to their lines of comunications, they will leap for a
new stepping stone. The next landing will probably be FoRmOSA
or the southeast seacoast of CHINA.
x
x
x
x
The Amer lcan landing on LUZoN is a big blow to the KOIsO
Cabinet. With the support of the moderates the KoIso Cabinet
was brought into being, and, after an elapse of less than half
REDIMICIED

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.94)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
CIHUNGH.ING
17 FEB 1948
a year, it has come to be known as a "fe ble Cabinet". For
Instance, In polltical structure, there is outside of the
Cabinet the "Highest Directing Councll of ar" vested with
the power to decide the fundamental pollcy for the execution
of the war. Ithin the Cabinet there are the Cabinet
advisory Com Ittee, the Composite Planning Board, and the
"composIte fromotion Councii for the xecution of Principal
rollcies" whlch 1s almed at supplemonting and accelerating
the work of tho Compo: Ite Flannin Board. All these organ1-
zatlons ovurlap one another and override and restrain
authoritles and responsibilitlos arong t emselves. In the
realn of the production of unitlons aiming at strengthening
the war efforts, the opinion of the Army contradicts with
that of the financlal cliques. iith a vlew to producing
larce unber of aoroplanes, the Army demands that al? the
best machinery and resources, together with all the skilful
workers, should be concentrated in the production of airplanes.
This method of draining the pool to catch al? the fish,
however, 1: belng op osed by the financlal cliques who are
eckln to onsure their own profit and to look at the general
situatlon ciroumspectly. hi: :trugle between the Army
and tho fi ancial cliques resulted i the defeat of the latter.
on the l9th of last nonth, the Inister of  unit'ons, ur.
FIo 原 次 ),represents the
uiouI flu clal c Ique, rosihed; and the bureaucrat YeslIDA
ohlgeru ( , ) who is rapable of bet or executing
the policy of the Ar y was Iven the power of controlling
tho productlon of : unit!s. s to t e weskness of the
productIon of  nitions Itself, the lack of rufficient labor
forces, the diificultios i: transportat'o the lack of work-
ine tools on the one hand  Ile on the other hand the lying
idle of a purt of tho work1 tool: of pri cIpel munitions
factorles due to the lack of : kil ed worker:, the soaring of
com odity prices, the prevalonce of black parkets, the gradual
decrease 1 the quantity of rat'oned foodstuff:, and the drop
1n the enthusiaam for war o" the part of the worker s--all
these have been problems and headaches for  UI O. By now the
amerlcan troops have fought t'eir way I to the II IlrINes
and the "co-prosperity phere of ireater art n In Is being
destroyed. The s ries of trick: which IoIso had been playing
In the past are I capable of cop'ng :Ith the far ore serlous
crisis of the prese t oment. hat reasures 1l the Japenese
rulin clas:es take heroafter to escape fro this crlsis?
JudIng by tne irese t conditlon of varlou: circles con-
corned, there is ittle po::Ibility for tue extreme radicals
ESTRTC1ED

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.93)
量
RED
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 303 - page 3
CHUNOKING
17 PB 1945
to rise and seize control of the administrative power onoe
again, for their policy had already proved to be ineffective
In the TOjo Cabinet and could not obtain the support of the
ruling classes. There is likewise little possibility for
the emerence of elements more moderate than KoIso and his
company to organize a new Cabinet, for now it 1s not the time
for that as yet. The rost likely pos:ibility at the present
moment Is tne further continuance of the existing joint
Cabinet of the radiculs and the rodorates. Although the KoIso
Cabinet has its weak side, yet it has its strong sIde as well.
Contrar/ to the ToJo Cabinet, the koIso Cabinet does not have
many opi o: itioni:ts outslde of the Cabinet. It has the support
of tne mujority of the Japanese ruling classes. ith a viow to
overco. in the internal disunification and the administrative
Impotence to offect reforms, KoIso wil! form henceforth a
small over:int group w1thin the Cabinet centering around
ninself to strengthen the efficlency of his governnent. He
will o tho one hand tighten his co trol over econonlc affairs
with a vlew to stren thenI'e the war efforts w ile on the
other hand he will recruit  ore effectively his support from
an onthe poople.
六
X
x
un the l th of Jast o th, at the time when the  inister
of ilitar., supilies was chan ed, the Iresident of the
ssistance roliticel Associatlon. AObaYhsilI izo (小、林,踏造)
enterod the Cabinet as  Inister ithout Portfolio. This
explains the attept of nOIso to call in the Assistance Poll-
tical association to strengthen the political power of the
government. It Iikewise explains why President KOBaYAsHI,
who belones to the faotion of odorates, is willing to give
full support to the noI:O Cabinet. Lately the As:Istance
Political association has beon very active. It has potitioned
to the overnment to : treny hen its oreanization, to set up
district tranches and to be re arded as the only political
organlzatlon for unifyin the trength of the people. On the
other hand, the overnment derands that the as: 1stance Poli-
tical As: oclatiou will cooperate with the government in setting
up the so-cal ed "powerful political con: titution". It was
resolved on the 19th of thi: onth that the Assistance lolitical
Association is to be dissolved to form another powerful new
political party This resolution was presented formally to
the Diet. suIs0 has al:o expres ed his opinion that there 1s
the nece:. ity to form such a new political party. There 1s,
at the prese t, the possibility of con olidating the Assist-
ance rolitical Association, the Imperial Rule Assistance Associa-
tion and the Youth Brigade of the Imperial Rule Ass1stance
Associatlon into one single political party to for a naz1
REDTED

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.94)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 303 - page 4
CHUNGKING
17 FLB 1945
party of the Japanese style. As we know, the Assistance
Folitical assoclation 1s an organization with head but without
tail. It has no followers in the lower stratum. The Youth
Brigad, of the Imperlal kule Assistance Association has some
activities among the mas: es of the lower stratum while the
Imperial ule As: istance Associatlon itself 1s a ghost without
a skeleton. The consolidation of the three right perhaps
form an organlzatlon integrated fror the top to the bottom
to try to wi over the asses. ve: if : uch an organization
could be forred, it will not, however, possess any strength;
for no Fasci:t organizatlon in JaPAn 1s capable of sharing
one co on faith and of taking one com on programme. Thore
are the radicals, the moderates and elements of defunct
political parties vithin the interior of various organizations
who aro after their own ruspective interests and Intentions.
If they are to ii: 1:t o copyin the German Yazis then the
rosult of their depictl a tiger wil turn out to resemble
a doo. Cr it wij: be ike the : ovement for a new political
party" duri the ti e of the rc OYn Calinet which was alter-
na:ely sut up a c then dis: olved. dissolved and then set up
ain. It i. just a cha lge In tho way: of driving and poisoning
te japu.ose people.
X
X
x
x
I. his :pe ch bofore the Diet session on the lst, in
ad ition to hi. pralse of und oncouragemont to the spirit of
the "speciul at ackin :quuds", r I 0 co centrated o the
"stre thenino of the war efforts and the "defense of the
native land which are vo now policy at all. hese slogans
have :on boe: proclaimed ever : ince the formation of his
CabInet and tho :peech wiich he made before the 85th sesslon
of the let. evertholess, locau o of the weakness of the
national :trength. the so-cal. od "con titutlon of the war
of deci ion" could cot be rot up til? the present moment when
the invaslun of the american troops 1s directed towards JAPAN
Proper.  Tus, he is compelled to make desperate and urgent
exploitation of the man-power and matorial resources within
JaFaN which are already ou the briuk of exhaustlon. At the
same ti o, he wili o one  tep forward to accelerate the
Increase of production in the colonies, occupied territories
and especially in  OnTil CilINA. The adrinIstrative power of
the central over:ment over the various di:triots governments
will also be strengthened with a view to drivin: his people
to die Ior the "Imperial Empire".
(Written on 25 January 1945.)
Typist: Soetu, Cheh
For C.T.C.
T.H.B.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.84)
(Enclosure no. 10 to despatch no. 264, March 31,)
(1945 from American Embassy, Chungking. China.)
TED
R
CO-ORDINATAD THANSLATION CENTER
Th 304
CHUNGAING
19 FB 1945
TRANSLATION: O..I./GUO DA
ACTION: O.W.I.
- 4 eoples
INFO: OsS Majer
11
stevens
G.2. Majer
Burden
Smbassy
Y1N64
File
upplement to vl. G rhao (The manclpation Dally),
ubi1shod 1 Y iA 31 Jannary 45.
し
IDDoIkI.
(  )
1 ce ne lu dl  the h I Is by American troope,
the  curity of Iropor has be sort isly threatened.
Ith a vlow to r Ilevi the l pendi g ori: ls, two Important
cha s l pr on o took place ot very long ago.
e lit Ie tie torced relgoatlo of uJIaRa Ginjiro
( 原 银 次 ) of the f 1 cique f mI
who s  uc eoded Iy r ro-   tat uraucrat Y D
(thesu
he  y r loI  Jet od he inlstry of Dorestto
aflalrs i il whe ne ro unte fror the Collega of Law of
the rie Imper 1al nivorelty He worked there unt1l 1927.
when he wee t roed ton and  IcA to make Invaati-
eat on   o ru arrh.po 1r return to tho home country
he vas at cinte head of the Fwrean of oclal  ffairs of the
i i:try  o tte  frgirst that ti e, he inou urated
the rhldat
oclty, c  a ac zatlo, prpagatt  erg
ti:!
rt upe I  hehalf f to  itarlsts. In
1  thr  the co e detif oro Fuio ( 文夫),
who ca e fro the sane tow: ss ho, he was annol ter Cabinet
ecretary-General for tho ohabn Cnuluet. oon the Japarese
inau urate the an! t aveeti ation uroan (which was the
prsuece. sor of the cabimet  lan I  voard) and he sar ap pintod
the 1lrst noad ior :ho ew!y started bureau which was to in-
ver tlcute spocia iy the ocono lc and political conditloer of
the whole contry and to draw pla a for the production of
u1 itar up: les and fo dstufrs.t th t ti. e, he had mad
frlonds sith a croup of  ascit young offlcers and e eaged
himseli in al.ti-party-po itics activities.Ice then he has
become oe of the lg haads of the roup of pro! Itary
uureancrt hen YnaI Mitsmara(米内,光 政)
oranizing ni: Cabinet 1n January l940, ha mas chose as
RESGTED

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.81)
CO-CRDINATAD THANSLATION CANTER
Ta 304 - page :
CHUSGYTG
19 FB 1945
Minister of oclal wolfare. He left this post In July of the
same year when YoaI sent in his reslgnation. Sinee then, ho
has becore an active membor oi the Imperial Rule Assistanee
Assoclatlon, together with Gutc Fu: lo and many others. Ho was
once brigadler-general of the Youth Brigade of the Imperial
nule ns: lstance cs. oclation of UkYo metropolitan Profecture.
Later, he was elected rresldent of the Irron Labor servlee
ratrlotic ..s oclatlon(日本 劳 务報国富).Bogianing
witn Jury yas, he was overor oi the Fr oha Prefecture and
concurret ii oslie t of the . ocal  d i lstrative Council of
kYush  h  nse teo ort: for a yoar ad workod out
dur1 at i e guite a uaber of ethods for the adjuatmont
of t e ad I lstration of 'itary rup lios, and espeolally,
the adjust o 1 oi labor power, in the 1 dustrlal reglon of
Yus it  seen ir al the above that YoulliDA 1
not y u u: es lcrrt d b. the oso by the ilitarists, but
is ul o  vpori e d ad  rtrator oi produetion. ince
hi.    ator of ary upioe lat Decomber
und  t c:'  tno  ltariste ho hos alrady
shlfu  d workors f ony dustrlal
plat   tactoris, i to t at olve the
shorta1 sio workers there
A
X
x
x
hcl of
d 1ra
長谷清
d0n1 al 0
se e ded  oera a  kich
(安利
uarr10
wo tok the os co cur ently.
1 te cn o the ape ose i vadure, he been
fa pu.r:Is root ta  inrity witn co iton  
t i t the
 oa gar bo asctat e 1Tn
1919, he as at o  n  to  vest lato and do rusearch
on I tar sce cel ceis relur to the o country.
he hae bee  I tructor at lne ur lltars aeade y and
Iilte 3ttache tat o o. In  lo, ho was o
mander t a rti y ri ace a 1 lod 1 trope to tovade
Tswas. ie was  e s t e nreerere rer pon ih e for the
fabricati. or the ra edy Tn Je, he was
iiltary at ache statl d Infter tre oatbreak
of to are: ive var guinst  1a o: 7 uu y  7, ho wai
actiuo inr ector-uenoral of the vepart e t of 1!itur rain-
Ing for a hr1lo. ver ptnce ay, 938. he ha beo  rn
with the exception uf ohe rotura to the  o e c untry, he has
beer active 1
suU. A.He wasfthe

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.84)
CO-ONDINATAD TANS ATIO CENTER
Tn 304 - pace 3
CHU O. INO
19 PEB 1945
plotters of the Japanese offensive operatlons against Hanxo
and CaTo. 1.. the autum of 1938. In November of the same
Comander of Japanese xpeditlonary Forces In? ouTH CHIna.
Then he i vaded and occupled Hainl  in kwni.GsI. In Soptomber,
1940, ne 1od t1: troops to 1 vade French ID0-CH1 A and con-
cluded with the puppet VlonY French Jovernment the "Praneo-
Japanose ract whleh uceorded the Japanese the rIght of
statlo 1 ro p 1: rench 1 v0-Cula. In Apr1l, 1942, ho
was up i ita con andor-in-chiof of Japanese Garrison Troops
i.. s u , uion po: 1. he ha held up to the present. Thus,
It I. qultu ap arent, that the ap ointment of ANDo Riklohi
as cocur over or-oneral of Fo  shows the Japane
Intet: . o1 r  yi o I to stre  thom the Jand defoncos on
the isluu of  n with he vaw to pi oparloe for the
1arL..cui1. ⊥u.nci1
opor a. iol ol the erlcan troops who are
touri.v.01.
ED
1y: i2u: szetu chen
For C.T.C.
T4.B.

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.89)
(Enolosure no. 11 to despatch no. 264, March 31,)
(1945 from Amer1can Embassy, Chungking. China.
CO-ORDINATD TRAFSLATIO CNTER
In olz
CYI:G
23 P 1940
TRARSLATION: O.N.I./GUO DA
ACTION: O.W.I.
(4 eopies)
I FO: OSS, Maj
Stevens
Embassy —
File
."Y 1 . 64,
-up le: ent to I i  b0 (The mancipatlon Dally),
Fubl1s ed 1n Y AN, 31 January 1945.
   1  J Y. (B: In Cning)
Ihe Jocline of the las lo for ar.
The unfavorable turn of the wur situntion and the
unbearable privations 1: livlne co ditlons have brought 
change 1 the pas lo: for war : the part of the Japanese
people. ns   (小. 室), Presidet of the Japanese
Diplo a y hesearc soclety, sald 1 the ToYo KnIzAI SHIyPO
of the people based d: Talth In I evitable victory is really
rogrettable lateiy. The nation as a vhole must reconsider
a ew, with a vlew tovards dirocting and stre gthening the
apirit of strule and the spirit of a I 1lating the enomy
on the part of the people. ... othorwlse, srould the
developme t oi the war beco e u favorable, pessi istic and
dishoarle i Ideas w1ll prey upo the peoplo'."
The victory Douuti g Intolllgontsla
Une part of the 1 tel L tsia l: especla?ly opposing
the war oi ages: ion. 1n the epto. ber 944 1ssue of
DAi ( ) U. URA (野 村). Director of the Public
speucn ratrlotic ns oclatlon, made the fol owing remark:
"at the present t' e, whe wo aro fi hting with E GLAnD and
A. nlta, we eve: ac ord uoupleto freedor to such thinking
of t e a uc xo s: te as de o racy', liberalls' and
'i dividualis '. rubli: speec idoaolo ically co tradic-
tory to the wr ai of tae Iopor Lal  plro of Jara, or
spoec re-ecoi that of  A.AD and A lA, 1s :till
prevalli urrooa t 1. Jarall today." He wo t  to say:
"Ihere Is a part of the intel i ontsla a o g the Japanese
people ho harbor great doubts ns to eve tua? vitory in
the war. ittle har would he caused If tho:e people would
only keep their donbts wit! the selves. tut the point 1s
that they 1!! I fluence others a d se k their uprort.
Thus, a serlous problen Is reate."
LAULD

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.91)
CO-OnDINATAD TRANSLATIO CENTHR
In ole - pace
CHUNGKING
23 F 1946
Wicked" Behav1or of ""1cked" Youth.
The people of Jara are r:sortlag to various moasures to
under le the "war-ti e co. stitutlo:" and the "systom of laber
conscr1pt lon" of the Japaneso 1liturlsts. Thus, the number
of the so-cal ed "wicked" laborers and "wicked" studonts, 
they aro rurded by the Japanese 1litari ts, have boen
reat) 1 creased. s was reported by the ASAhI : HImBUN on
7 Uctober 944: 'he r su!ts of the pol1ce of the Metropoll-
tan rollce Hcadguarters in co dicting : round-up for ton day
in the c:Yo u 1 1pai1ty revealed tnat t ere were. 3,925
people  lity of wicked bahavlor, 6,559 of sabotage, and
8,O3o o1 otner cr1: inal ucta." e do ot know the conoreto
def1 1tio e or t e: e "wlcked behavior" and "orlminal act"
as polnted out here, yet ve can tell that these at least are
thi s u iavorable for the Japane:e 1itarists. Moreover,
the u ter of casus ive here are restricted to those which
have vee detected by the pol ice, 1 e the actual number of
cases of s ch "wicked enavior d cr! inal acts" must be
far .ore : vrprisi.
Lve, Dui y cec: itles are of Miserable" vuality.
Under the s,ste of ratio i , the dally ecessities of
te people are quatitatively restricted to the 1 1mum
wuiie qua Itativui they are eve worse. The Poyo kI AI
l e. r rted I: July last year: "A c rtal" di i house
in tait ruce t. received a ratio, of three boxea of whale
eat  Ih al tirned out to be rotto
Again, a certain
e tle. a versed 1 pen ans Ip raid that lately a? brushea
aro usu us: for writi. :he of 1 lal prices for urushes
do .ot take 1 to snsideratio vhether the brushes ca vrite
or ot. Thoy o  stipulate that the prices for clu: ters of
hairs at ached to ha boo ticks are sn uch and sn much."
Likowlse, the .. An1 I  UN of z7 Septe ber 944 reported:
"now coarse a c poor aro the toys a ufacturely ately. They
are broke  ediatel, aftor the have co e  to the hands of
the cn1 dre..
Bad  uck tor he Iupil: 1o!
ar has bro eht isi ortn e to the stude ts and unils.
The A. A 1 :  1.b N re, orted  11 July 1944 that: "kecently
the umber of uncer- ourIshed childre reached co, while 50.
of the were :uftorile fro dyse tery. Avora ely peaking,
there are dal y in ev ry class o e stude t vo Itting and two
sufi urlne fro.. dizziness, who are obllged to ask for leave.
to o home." The reaso for uch il nes : the Insufficieney
REDTED

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.92)
REST
CO-ORDINATD HANSLATION CENTER
T 31 - pue 3
23 PB 1945
CHUIGK ING
of econdar 1oods. CHInA ( 内 田), the Inietor of
nriculture and Com erce, once said whon Ispecting the mestoti
"Thi: is a ratlon for birds!" If he had taken a look at the
conditlon: 1n the school: rece tly he would have certainly
exclaimod: " i: is a ration for cricketa!" No one care
that the stude ts a a pupils do ot get e ough to eat, althou
the teachors take a roat I terest in the thoughts of the
studeate a d upil: whos, etters to their parents and brother
are exa lued close'y. These stude ts a d pupils who are
ovacuateu to the country are compolled to write and report
that they ure ivi quite satisfactorlly. Thls aroused mevere
criticism fro the parents and eldere of the studonts and
pupils. The A a i I buN cone o ted on 5 october 1944:. "If
thi: i. tho caso, it would be bettor to have the lotters
printed and just aek the stude tn and pupils to fill in thoir
nares a d date. "ould that ot be : ore econo leal?"
ED
Typist: zet chen
For C.T.C.
T.K.E.

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.91)
SPECI
Bradsias
:31
SOK
ICA
UNITED STATES OF AME
1BG
+5
SECRET
APR 26 1945
OC/R
No. 1599
Subject:
Transmitting Memorandum of Convorsation
With a Former Attache of the Rumanian
Legation at Tokyo.
en
CA
7 1945
1/
of a memorandum of conversation with a former Attache
of the Rumanian Legation at Tokyo. The informant left
-894.00/4-345
Tokyo early in January and subsequently spent
approximately one month and a half in North Manchuria
en route to the soviet Union. The intelligence which
240
he provided was not detailed but serves to present what
is believed to be a fairly accurate and comprehensive
picture of the situation in Japan and North Manchuria
at the beginning of 1945.
tife
CS/LE
L.
tC
Enclosure:
1/ Memorandum of Conversation.
e0
JD/aiw
Original in ozalid to Department.
CUR
File
Dist.

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.98)
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION
Moscow, Mareh S1, 1008
Present: Vioter Gutsuleseo
F. B. stevens
J. Davios, Jr.
Mr. Gutzulesco was formerly attache to the Rummim
where he stayed for one month. Frem Harbim he 
for Bucharest. Because of his difficult pesitien as 
former Rumanian diplomat, Mr. Gutsulesco requests that the
information which he provided be restricted to emly
American officials.
is already in American possession. It provides, hemever,
useful support of what has previously been reported.
American Air Raids. Mr. Gutsuleseo witnessed the
Doolittle raid on Tokyo. His comment was that this resd
had little effect on the Japanese beyond pessibly heishteming
their anti-American feeling. He was in Tokye during the
early B-29 raids which he believed to have had little mere
than nuisance value. Fires were .started but he was net
informed as to the full damage done. Foreigners were met
permitted to approach industrial areas so he was umable to
see the damage done in those sections of Tokye. He did
see one burned out residential section.
Tokyo air raid preeaution measures were imadequate,
Mr. Gutsulesco observed. Fire-fighting equipment was
insufficient with the result that the Jepanese were fomeed
for the most part to permit the fires to burn themselves
out. Air raid shelters were unsatisfactory. During the
early B-29 raids most of the population did not trouble to
seek shelter. Mr. Gutsulesco stated that the populaee was
given about forty-five minutes warning of approaching
American airorest.
While the initial B-29 attacks did not serve to shake
Japanese morale, Mr. Gutzulesco surmised that the subsequent
heavy attacks by fleet carrier aircraft and reinforeed B-29
formations must have seriously affected the Japanese.
Invasion Defense. The Japanese people now anticipate
a landing on Japan at any time, Mr. Gutzulesco stated.
School youths have therefore been conseripted. He said that
one sees quite a few young men in Tokyo who have been
inducted inte the Home Army. They were dressed in sumer

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.98)
uniforms and he believed that they were inadequately
equipped with arms. Asked about coastal defenses,
Mr. Gutsulesco replied that sforeigners were prehibited
from visiting coastal areas so he had no infemmasiem m
that score. He had no doubt that the Japanese would
fight hard in the defense of their home islands but did
not feel that they were well equipped for sueh defemse.
American Prisoners. Mr. Gutsulesee stated thet
freight. He remarked that while they did mot appeer te
Japanese. For one thing, American prisoners received
supplementary food through the Red Cross and themefere were
probably fed better than the ordinary Japanese. The
Japanese press, Mr. Gutzulesco stated, reperted that a large
number of American prisoners were killed at Mukden during
an American air raid on that city.
Mr. Gutzulesco declared that eight American priseners
of war are working in the Tokyo radio broadeasting station.
He said that he did not know whether they were officers or
enlisted men, nor did he know their names.
War in General. While Japan was winning, Mr. Guteulesee
observed, Japanese prepaganda maintained that there wes me
connection between the Pacific war and the German war.
When the United Nations began to advanee in the Paeifie,
Japanese propaganda pointed out that the twe wars were
interrelated and implied that Japan might expeet te derive
help and benefit from a forthcoming German wietory. Mewever,
with German reverses becoming more apparent, the Japanese
propaganda line has again shifted back to the line that
there is no connection between the war in the Paeifie and
the war in Europe.
After the American landing on Saipan the Japamese
began openly to admit the danger of an invasion of Japem
Propor.
Asked about the possibility of Japan's suing for
peace,"Mr. Gutzulesco stated that the first rumors were
that after the fall of the Philippines Japanese peace
feelers might be put out. Later his Japanese contacts
suggested that peace proposals might be made after the
fall of Germany or after American landings on Japan.
The Japanese up to the time of his departure still
professed to be confident of their ability to defend their
home islands. They deelared that if the capture of se
small an island as Saipan presented the diffieulties which
it did to the Americans, successful invasion of Japan would
be an impossible task for the Americans.

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.98)
When questioned regarding possible fristion metween
the Japanese army and mavy, Mr. Gutsulesce repkéed thes
that the army had up to the date of his departure sassess-
fully blocked the navy's wishes in this respest.
Morale and Propaganda. The enemy population,
Mr. Gutsulesco said, believed their govermment's propagande.
believed that Americans were savages and bent on he
destruction of the Japanese people. Whileithereswas no
evident breach in Japanese unity, Mr. Gutguleseo was of
the opinion that the people were undoubtedly war weary and
desired a termination of the hostilities. de heard no
comment to the effect that Japan's militarists were
responsible for the plight in which the Japanese people
found themselves.
While Mr. Gutzulesco was permitted by the onemy
authorities to keep his short-wave radio and so was emabked
to hear American broadoasts, the Japanese people were
prohibited from having any short-wave sets. They were
therefore unable to listen to American propaganda.
Food and Clothing. Food and clothing conditions in.
Japan, Mr. Gutzulesco declared, are "ten times werse them
in Mosoow". Acute food shortages, he said, have caused
obvious malnutrition among the Japanese peeple. The
Government attempted to explain the shoetage with stasements
that foodstuffs were being stored in Japan. This Oxplemasion
was not generally credited. In reply to a query as te what.
categories are most affected, Mr. Gutsulesco indieased that
the deficiencies appeared to be gemeral. He remarked that
there was a shortage of even tea, the Japanese peeple being
told that the Russlans had gone without tea and that there-
fore they. should be able to drink hot water and like it.
The enemy population, Mr. Gutzulesco stated, dees not
have enough clothing. Each person is given a ration of one
fiber suit a year. The fiber material is very poor and a
suit is usually worn out in about one month.
Production and Transportation. Mr. Gutsulesee had
little information regarding productien. He did net believe
that Japanese facteries were being moved to Manchuria. He
said that Japanese industry was to a considerable degree
dispersed in home industries.
Rail transportation, Mr. Gutzuleseo remarked, appeared
to be in fairly good condition. He believed that
communication lines would prove to be profitable air bembing
sargots.

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.98)
Enemy shipping had admittedly suffered heavy
passenger vessels. The samd was true of Fust
Motor vehicles, he said, were powered by a gatdtine-
alcohol mixture or by charcoal gas.
Ceal and other fuels were short. Eleetric power was
strictly rationed in Tokyo.
Government. Mr. Gutzulesco's impression was that the
his opinion the present goternment could not attempt to
make peace with the Wnited Nations. A civilian gevermment
which had no connection with the militarists or the war
would have to be formed to enter into peace negotiations.
Korea. Mr. Gutzulesco passed through Korea without
any stopover and therefore was able to form only a flesting
impression. He stated that Korea struck him as being im
about the same condition as Japan Proper. In rospense to
an inquiry regarding traffic which he observed om his train
trip through Korea, Mr. Gutzulesco said that he say no
unusual movoment.
Manchuria. While he was in Manchuria during Jamuary
and Fobruary Mr. Gutzulesco gained the impresston that
conditions there were considerably bettor than in Japan
The Japanese in Manchuria had enough to eat. The Kwentang
army appeared to be well clothed, well fed and well
equipped. Rail traffic appeared to bé about normil.
The Chinese populetion was, Mr. Gutsulesoo obsorved
worse off than the Japanese. He said that the Chinese still
bitterly hated the Japanese. For the time being, hewever,
they were lying low and expecting that after the American
invasion of Japan the Soviet Union would ocoupy Manehurie.
Interestingly enough, Mr. Gutzulesco remarked that the
Chinese did not appear to believe that the Russians would
have to fight for Manchuria. His interpretation of
Manchurian-Chinese opinion was that following the American
conquest of Japan, Japanese contrel in Manchuria would
disintegrate, enabling the Russians to enter that territery
without meeting organised resistance. Mr. Gutsulesoo stated
that Chinese had remarked to him that they were waiting for
this development with pleasurable anticipation and were
looking forward to the liquidation of ali Japanese in
Manchuria.
It must be borne in mind, however, that the Chinese
to whom Mr. Gutzulesco talked were presumably those in
Harbin and Manchuli and were therefore more conscious of

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.95)
-5-
Soviet power than those in South Manchuria.
The position of the White Russians in Manehuria,
Mr. Gutzulesco stated, was worse than that of the chimes
He remarked that the White Russians did not seem to 
seeking or receiving Soviet protection.
心
JD/a1w
Original in ozalid
Copy to: Embassy, Chungking.
Office of the Political Advisers,
Headquarters, USF, China Theater,
APO 879, c/o Postmastor, N.Y., N.Y.

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.77)
Anu3 9, 1010
Pellesing eur esversatiem yested
dessified as "meleretes".
Smak & list is attaed.  ds 
mot ethy what you mat or if you deolve
addittenel tnfermaties slane shis er siailar
lines, please de mos besitaste to Los m
with best wisbes,
Staeerely yours,
(Signed) E.B. Stattintus, SF:
ourin
The Neserable
James V. Perrestal
Sesretary of the Bevy
Somnems
A.tra
DOR - NE Unit
the sed
.202
Bow. !.
BRT

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.93)
MAY S- 1945
BY OF THE
STATES OF AMEFICA
Chungting, China, April 11, 1945
2tassmthief
RESTRICTED
DEPA
2.9r0u 11
No. 290.
APR261945
Nany "
DC/L
Communist and other publications
preoared by American Coordinated
5/8/45
Tranelation Center, Chungking.
The Charge affeires, e.1., has the honor to
refer t the Embassy's desoetchee nos. 259, March 27,
and Pr4, March 31, 1945, transmitting translations
oreoared by the Aherican Coordinated Translation
Center, Chungking, of artieles regarding the Japanese
from Jaoanese, Chin se Communist and other publications.
As indicnted in the last paragraph of despatch)
no. P53, the Co rdinated Trenslation Center planned
to micograoh these translations commencing about
June 1. 1a45. It as row been possible forthe CTc
894.00/4-
to oroceed with this work much sooner than was
expected. rclosed are five mimeographed copies or
each of the following translations, 1ssued by CTC
dur1ng the per1od March 23-31, 1945, inelusive:
1. "The Two Political Formulas", Jikyoku
Joo, Tokyo, December 10, 1944.
"New Governor (of Fukuoka Ken)", Tairiku
Shimpo, Shangha1, December 2?, 1944.
3. "The Budget of the Mongolian Government"
Huape1 Sh npao, Ta1yuan, January 7, 1945.
4. "Japanese New Fascist Party in the Fermenta-
tlon Stage", Gief ng Rhbeo, Yenan, Shensi,
February 5,1945.
5. "Aßvocacy of Jacanese Diet Members for the
ISRESEARCNPOBLICATIN
'New Party'", Giefane Rhbeo, Yenan, Shensi,
MAY191945
FORE C POLECATIONS CONIT
February 5, 1945.
CS/MAJ
Further copies of these mimeograched translations
will be tranemitted to the Deoartment wit out covering
desoatch.
Enclosures:
5 coples of translations
7
listed above.
Original and hectograph to the Department.
MAY 29 1945
FILED
AND POBLICATION
DCR - NE Unit
CHB/mcl
2n
MAY 28 1945
Rov. m
0a.04
C.d.B.
OF STATE
Diat.

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.96)
(Encldsure no. 1-to. deepatch no. 290, ApriI 11,
(1945 from American Embasey. Chungking, China.
CO-ORD DMATED TRANSLATION CENTER
Th 399
CHUNGKLNG
THANSLATION O..I./GUO DA
FROM: "JIKYOKU JOHO" (Information on Current Evente)
Published in TOkY0, 10 December 1944
THE TWO "POL ITICAL FOL ULAS" - Comments on the System of
Cabinet Arvisors and the Composite Planning Board
By: SUALMOTO TOSH IO (住本利男)
The Spaed of Politics
By the term "political formula" is meant the funda
ever, clearly the character of the Cabinet and the situs
the time. This is especially true of the political fosm
centrate the power at one point while at the same time ms
the character of being mobile. The political formula
trative power", the "Cabinet advisory system", the "admint
supervisory system", and a lot of other reforme of the admin
trative organizations adopted thereafter one after another.
following In the same line.
Likewise, the KOIs0 Cabinet takes its own independent
peculiar formula. Unlike his predecessor, General TOJO. 
Premier himselfs
humble self, on whom is being conferred the Impes
is trembling by day and by night as to hew shall f be
to fulfill my duty. .I sm deeply impressed by the need
that my responsibility may be realised.

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.97)
CO-ORDLNATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 399 - P. 2
OHUNGKING
government. There has been criticism frem long
present Cabinet dees not possess any sources with?
enforcement of policies and planning of projects. There
been no other methods than depending on the creatione and
ning of the various ministries. Moreover, the prinoiple
deciding government policies, in reality, has been the
tion of the vaious ministries; nevertheless the cono
thinks this is not sufficient. Thus, in addition to
of strengthening the political pcwer by means of the re
sonalitier, tho estebiiarment of a consultory organizati
connection with the devising of policies has become the
of the day.
In cornection with the establishment of a consultory
zation, we might trace this back to the beginning when, be
the appointmant of TAvAA ( p) as the chief seeretary,
MIURA (= ), Director of the Bureau of Legislation, togo
with SAkomIHIarsuNE ( Y ), then Cebinet Counclll
drafted the 'Schene for Consolideting Var Efforts" which was
aimed at shrinking the Planning Board. This "Sch eme" was 
on to TAnAka, the chief recretary. With regard to this fim
proposal, there were proe cnd cons amongst the Cabinet coll
The "scheme" had to be made concrete, and after passing throu
a series of conplications during a period of three months, it
was finally vrougnt into snape and was called the Bill of Cabi
Policy Burenu. Tnis was further changed to be called the Bill
Composite Pianning Bearl when it was submitted to the Privy Co
cil for consul:ation. To go side by side with the consultory
organization, the system of Cabinet Advisors, which was an aa
tart organization in the war-time economy, was revised. This
widened and made into a political advisory organization which
likewise taken into considerstion by Prenier KoIsO. Both of
these shculd have taken a certain chape and should have been re
alized before the Diet session on the 7th of September. But even
after tre Diet seseion, the matter was still subject to procras-
tinatior. Eventuclly the Syatem of Cahiret Advisors was in-
aurugamed on tne 27th of October and the Compcsite Planning Board
on the lst of November. In this connection, taking into con-
sideration the slow manner of moving of the Cabinet, there arose
the critisicn abcut the lack of adroitness in the enforcement of
Cebinet colicies. Both the Cabinet advisors and the Composite
planning board are assistant organizations to the Premier and do
the funJamental construction work of the Cabinet. They have be
conceived ever since the formation of the Cabinet; neverthelese.
they lhave been dragging on for two or three months, It is quite
natural that public opinion should remark about the slowmese i
taking actione. The appearance all-together of the Supreme
Directing Council, the Cabinet Advisors and the Composite Pl
Board, wmuld meen, then, the evertual esteblishment of the
towards the poiitics of war of decision on the part of the
ment. Military operations, however, have already been developin
at a terrible speed of te, The war of decision now going on
around the PHILIPPLvEs has been intensified deeper and deeper
the elapse of days. Military operations, thus, demand pe
politics.
Characteristics of the New Cabinet Adviaors
Characteristics of the new systen of Cabinet Advimorm
firstly in its political straits and secondly in its

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.96)
CP-ODLHATED TRANSLATION CENTER
31 MAR 1965
Ta 399 - P. 3
CHUNGKING
The Cabinet Advisory system created by the ToJO Cabinet dealt
exclusively in war-time economy and did not transgress.this lime
of limitation. As it was set up to cope with the emergenay
taske at the time of rapidly increasing the production, so 
perts and experienced men in such departments as aeroplanes,
shipping, finance, heavy industries and coal, were choeen as
advisors. The new aystem of Cabinet Advisors has removed such
limitations. These advisors have been made as political advi-
sors to the Premier. In government organisation, they have
likewise been stipulated "to participate in the comfidential
Thus, these advivore have been chosen widely from the ve-
rious phases of interior affairs, foreign affairs, culture and
education and economics. There are four who are retained from
former advisors, these are: YUkI ToYoTAko (吉 城  太 郎)
E), AIKAWA GISUKE(点
YAMASIITA KAMESABURO(
(豐田次郎)。Thu
advisory system has been closely connected with the supervision
of administration. From the fact that the supervisory commi-
ssars were usually appointed out of Cabinet ministers of Cabinet
advisors, we can see that the two systems are closely connected
one with the other. The system or supervisory commissars is to
be continued as it is, and the new system of advisore does not
lose its connection on this point. As far as conditions permit,
it was the intention of the Prime Minister to preserve as many.
who retired later on is to be included, then about half of the
former advisors remain in the new system. Besides, ARITA HAChRo
(有 丑  ) from the diplomatic circles, Admiral (?) ONO
To E) from the Navy and Army r)spectively Dr. ANDo KOTARO
(安 、 郎) from Agriculture, Dr. KoIzuMI SHINZo (小、泉
( 松 太 郎) from circles oi public speech, KorzuMI
IATAJIno (小、   ) from the Assistance Political Asso
Ciation,FURUTA SHUNNOSUK() frOM SUMITOMO in
place of GOKO KIYOSHI, and the like, have been chosen from quite
a wide sphere of variegated personnel who have been enjoying a
good reputation. The two with the deepest color as political
adVisorS are Mr. ARITA AACi LRO and General SUEMATSU NOBUMASA.
I'r. A.ITA has been very close to General KoISO and Admiral YoNAI
and has not been grudging with his support from under cover to
the Cabinet. He is now taking advantage of the occasion to come
to the surface, and is collaborating with General SUEmATSU to
serve as the core of the advisors. Messrs. YUKI, AIK.WA and
sOnIkI are full of opinions and so we think they will work ener-
getically.
The other characteristic of the new system lies in its
manipulation. It does not take the working process of regu-
larly scheduled conferences as has been the case hithertofore,
but will be callcd at any time necessary. Besides, with the ex-
ccption of some of the conferences in which all the advisors are
to be invited, the Premier will call up any advisor at any time
to ask for opinion; while on the other hand, if any advisor has
any advise to prcsent, it is not necessary for him to utick to
specified procedures. The first interview took place on the

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.98)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 399 - P. 4
31 MAR 3946
CHUIGKING
5th of November, and it has siice been not necessary to set-in
motion the crganizatirn particule-ly. The Premier has been
receiving the ad isre que Preely while the advisore them
selves are cellirg up confere ces oncc very week to hear the
explaratior of the  ven by th government authorities.
The Cabinet cou.cills at th: t'me of t:e KonoYE Cabinet were
eventually redaceaureiorally ueel se existence. Judging
by this instanne, the i:fe or de th of s assistant organisa
tions depends entirely upon how they wiil be manipulated.
Speeding up the Ecforcenent of War-tine Policiee
The Composite Planning Board is a conaultory organisation to
the Premier in connection with the enforcement of policies. With
the abolition or the former "Planning Board", affairs related to
the General Mobilization Law were transferred to be hendled by
the Ministry of Military Supplies. The composition and adjuet-
ment of policies were brought under the care of the Cabinet in
which an office of Cabinet Councillors was inaugurated. The
present Composite Planning Board reflects such history of the
past, that is to say, it is something walking in the middle be-
tween the former "Planning Board" and the Office of Cabinet
Councillors. Compared with the Cabinet chief secretary, who
occupies the post as the number one foreman of the Cabinet taking
charge of political affairs, the Director of the Composite Plan-
ning Board occupies the post of the so-called chief of staff in
connection with the speeding up of the enforcement of war time
policies. The function of the Board as a consultory organization
to the Prime Minister deals with the coordination of enterprises
connected with important national policies, the adjustment of
affairs of the various ministries, and the composite consideratio
and investigation. By enterprises connected with important na-
tional policies are meant those connected with every phase of the
interal affairs with the exception of those connected with mili-
tary affairs and foreign diplomacy. By the adjustments of af-
fairs of the various ministries are meant the unitary composition
within the Cabinet of the much diversified affairs of the various
ministries at the present; while by the composite consideration
and investigation are meant those jobs such as the investigation
of administrative affairs, examination of past administration,
investigation of conditions of operation of the affairs of the
various bureaus, and the like, which are indispensable for making
perfect the penetration of the war-time administration. What is
worth our attention here is the trying out of the so-called
"test drilling" (演 東). This is the method whereby, in case
we don't know whether or not we will be able to reap best re-
sults if we put into practice a whole measure, then instead, we
just put one part of it into practice and try it out.
From the time of the start, the government hae been adopting
the principle that in the enforcement of policies the independent
originality and design of the various ministries are to be
counted upon to the utmost. This signifies the intention of the
Cabinet, from the Premier to the chief secretary of the Cabinet,
to avoid adopting the method of devising policies by themselves
and then asking the various ministries to have them materialized.
This intention of the Fremier passed on to the character of the
"Composite Planning Board" itself. As a planning board, it is

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.97)
COORDNATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 300 - P. 5
CHUNGKJIG
quite matural that from its fnction it would devise and 
template pelicias. This does po, mean, however, that it will
confine itaelf w trin the reals of "contemplation" and will mst
seek to have the pclicies decided upon and put intc executiom.
Mcreover, it dos not meen tat he contemplated policies ar
the idea is nothing eise than to ccoperate with the varioue mi
nistries, to gtve perect life to the originality and design of
tre various -Inirtries and to speed up the enforcement of the
policies.
The mintenarce of an imeortant and substantial relationmi
with the Sup eme Var Directing Council may be taken as a great
character oi the Flanning Poard. The Supreme Council is not 
organizaticr from the stinipeint of the governmental organize-
tional system. On the cther hand the Flaining Board is an or-
ganization responsible directly to the Prme Minister in the
governmentel orgenization system. Accordingly there is no direet
relationship between the twe. Neverrelase as the national polf-
cies decided upon on the Supreme Council are brought back by the
Premier to the Cabinet where they are to be materlalized, so
naturally they will be touched by the hands of the Planning Board
which is the consultory orgenization to the Premier. On the
other hand, nat:onal policies which the Planning Board considere
as necessary are reflected on the Supreme Council by the Premier.
Under this sense, the plans are attributed with substantial re-
lationsh'p with the Supreme Council and the role they play in
this connection must be of importance.
Side by side with the Cabinet chief secretary, the President
of the Cabinet Information Bureau, and the Director of the Legis-
lation, the Director of the Composite Planning Board helps form
a circle surrounding the Premier. In a sense quite different
from that of the Cabinet ministers, he exercises role as the
"focus" of politics surrounding the Cabinet. Most of the Ca-
binet colleagues were advccatirg that the post should be held
concurrertly by the Chief Secretary TANAKA, nevertheless Mr.
HANIBA TETSUZO (* ), Vice-President of the CENTRAL
CHINA DEVELOPLENT COMPANY was eventually chosen for the job.
at the time when Premier KoIsO was the Minister and Chief Secre-
tary TANAkA was the Vice-Min'ster of Oversea Affairs. He is a
man who has entered the compeny of KOISO and TANAKA since long
ago. The functions of the Board are divided into the first
department (planning), the second department (readjusting) and
the third department (investigating), and are shared by fifteen
councillors. Besides, fifteen participants, and a number of
vice-participants and the like have been picked up from among
experienced and learned men of the people. Already MATSUDA
YOSHISUKE (公田令 ), Director of the Bureau of General
Affairs of the Ministry of Finance, has been appointed as Diree-
tor for the first department; ASAKA TOKUNARI (安 植 得 也),
Magistrate of ToChIG! Prefecture, has been appointed as Director
for the second department; and SUGANAMI YAJI(波 ,
Director of the Department of Coal of the Ministry of Military
Supplies, has been appointed Director for the third department.
At the same time a number of courcillcrs have been appointed.
Participants and vice-participants from among the people will be

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.98)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 399 - P. 6
CHULIGKTNG
31 MAR 1945
appointed in the near future, although the work has already
begun. Judging from the personnel chosen it will be eeen that
they are men capable of cooperating with the various ministries.
We might well say that the characters or the new Board are not
only expreseed in ite functions, but are vividly shown in its
personnel as well. The problem whether the expected funetions
will be realized or nct does not ely on the shoulders of
HANIBA, the new Dircctor of the Board, and of all the members
of the Board alone; but will also depend on the supporting
power of all the Cabinet members beginning with the Premier.
Typist: Yang Chang-tsun
For C. T. C.
T.H.B.

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.91)
(Enclosure no. ? to despatch no. 290, April 11.)
(1945 from American Embassy, Chungking. China.)
CO-ORDINTAD TRANSLTION CNTR
TH 375
CHUNGKING
26 M.R 1946
TRANSLATION: F. A./HUGH CHN
CTION: O.W.I.
INFO: Embassy
G-8
Pilo
FROM: TAInIAU SHIMPO (Contin nt 1 Nowspaper),
Publ1shod in SHaNGHaI, 22 Dcomber 1944.
N GOVNOR
Tozu hyuichiro(九 )Aprointad--Govarno
of FUAUOnN (    ), concurrontlv hd of the YUSHU
District Bur au of Min s, hg of tha MoJI(   ) Bureau of
Ocuanic Communication (   局 ), end Superviser of Military
Supply (T.N. Local representative of the Ministry) of the Ministry
of Military Supply. To4Uka 1s 54 yoare old. Ho was governor of
HuhhaIDo ( 北   ) from S)ptombor 1939 to June 1942. He is
. graduate of the Law Collego of tho Tokyo Impor1al miversity.
He had in tho paet e rv d ns gov rnor of YomaGuchI ( 
IYAGI(),nd TOKUSHI().
For C.T.C.
Typist: Szotu, Cheh
T.H.B.

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.95)
(Enclosure no. 3 to despatch no. 29o, Apr11 11,)
(1945 from American Embaesy, Chungking,  1na.)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 390
CHUNGKING
291945
TRANSLATION F.E.A./HUGH CHEN
CTIONI F.E.. (18)
INFO BY (6)
(-2 (2)
File
FROMs HUAPEI SHINPAO (North China Nowspaper) (In Chinese)
Publishod in TaIYUEN (太 /原), 7 January 1945
THE BUDGET OF THE *MONGOLLAN GOVERNMENT"
The Politioal Congress (政 務 ) of the "Mongolian Govermment"
has approved the budget for the Chingohi 740th fisoal year (1945 fisoal year).
This year, the Government's main effort will be on the proseoution of the wr
and the budget has been prepared so as to be able to meet all eventualities.
The expenditures for this fisoal year have been estimated to run to
276, 750,000 yuen ( 元). Compared with the expenditures for the last fisoal
year, whioh were 147,979,000 yuen, the expenditures for this year will be
almost doubled. (The rest of the artiole is blurred.) The inoome from taxation
has inoreased 34.618, 000 yuen . . . The Government will issue high way Wonds
(公  T.N. The X looks like the word "road" .) amounting to
180,0c0,000 yuen.
Typist, N. Y. Chen
Fcr C. T. C.
T. M.B.

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.95)
(Enclosure no. 4 to despatch no. 290, Apr11 11,)
(1945 from American Embassy, Chungking. China.)
CO-ODINATED TRANSLATION CENTE
CHUNGKING
23 MAR. 1945
TR: 374
ACTION: O.W.I.(4)
TRANSL ATION: O.W.I./ GUO DA
INFO: mbassy
OSS Stevens
G-2
File
FRON: GEIFAG HBAO (The EmancIpatlon DaIly).
Fubl:shed 1n YENAN 5 February 1945.
JAPANE E VEYY FASCIST FARTY IN THE RIENTATION STAGE.
--Composite Report of the Editing Board--
Thc problem of a "vew Jepenese Per ty" has been in the ferpea-
tstion stage for som time and is piroachin the stage of ripi
rccording to e commeit mede by en expert in Japanese political
gituation dating as far back ss to the time of the tojo cabinet
at the beginning of the year 1943 when the Japanese 8lst Dt
in session, one portion of the moderates, under the slogan of
"concentrating all the political forces", was already advocsting
the reorganizetiol of the fssistance Foliticel Associetion. The
wove was teken in oppos tion to the despotic and arbitrary rule of
ToJO. Some or them edvocated thet the Assistaace Folitice1
'ssoc'etion should establish its local branches while others
demanded thet the s id Association should be amslgamated with the
Tmperial ulr Asestance ssociation. Either of these two asser-
tions ceme fro eleme its of the defunct politicsl parties end aimed
ot the restor tion of the former politicel positions or politicel
nfluences of the various political perties in the local districts
under the protection of legelity. it thet time, however, there
was othia definitely decided within the assistaace Foliticel
Associet'on. Moreover, in pril of the same year, e partial
 ). standin secretery of thc Assistance Political Associetion
(member of the defunct IN  ITO), and YALAZAKI TATSUNO 3UKE ( 
 z  ) (member of the defunct HoWA Soc ety): were invited by
roJc to jo a the Csbi et, with a view to making use of their
histolical relationship with the defunct political perties to
accommodate and to pacify the i aissatisfactions. As a result, the
shout fo the reformet:ol of the Assistance Folitical Assoeiation
wes silenced down. heI the ToJo Cabinet collepsed, members of the
defunct pol tic i parties thought thet the time was ripe, so the
old tun? wes played oacc again. Up to last October, they had not
been eble to acquire thc consensus of the greet majority within
the ss isteace Political Association. They only succeeded in
reaching the decision to recruit more local members and to absorb
locsl offictals end steff members of the province, metropolitan
Frefecture end prefecture headquerters of the Imperial Rule
Assistaace 'ssociation to join the " Assistance Political Associa-
tion". cince the openine of the present Diet session, the shout
for the orgenization of a new politicel perty hss become the more

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.97)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
CHUNGKING
23 MAR. 1945.
TR: 374 - Page 2
noisy. Under the sign-board of "setting up a national system for
the invincible victory", the Assistance Political Association
member of the defunct MINsITc, as its president, aiming at the
studying of concrete propos:ls for organizing new parties. on 12
January, the committee decided on their fundemental progrem as the
so-called "inauguretion, under the leedership of His Lajesty the
Emperor, of ε political associat'ol of all the comrades in the
country, taking as their object the fulfilment of the wer, to unite
all the efforts of people to res lutely put into effect strong
policies". On the i7ti of the s month, sfter discussing the
various projects, the said comm'ttce decided thst the "Assistonce
Plitical ssociation should be aissolved" to organize a new
political party. This was also unanimously voted and passed after
e discussion by the Highest Steff Conference of the Assiatance
Folitical Association on the l9th (in which standiag secretaries
led by President KoB 'Y'THI KIzo and various department hesds were
present). Then the said proposal was submitted to the Diet for
discussion. Premier KoIso, likewise, expressed his approval for
the formation of thc new party end announced that he was prepared
to reorganize the Imperlal Rulc ssistance ssociation and Youth
Brigade of tne Imperi 1 Rule ssistance Association into
"subsidiary administrative organs" of the Government so that
they will not handicor the organization of the new party. In a
confcrence of th sectaries of the Assistance Politicel Associa-
tion o: the 3oth, the majority opproved the intention of the
C ve ent. From o ttitude of KoIso to support the proposel
of thc Ass'rance Political ssociation, it is quite possible
that this "new polit cal party" will soon be realized.
The Impri 1 Rulc Assistance Association, because of its
burcaucratic  d-hip, has not been able to carry through its
mobilization of the prople. On the other hand, the Assistance
Political Association was established only for the control of the
Diet and had no relationship with the masses of the people. At
a time when it has become neccss iy for the Japanese Fascists to
mobilize all the people to carry on its desperate struggle, the
old mechanism hes long become uselcss. Consequently, here arises
the demand for the coming into bel of the "new political party".
Notwithstanding th inct that, as  result of the internal conflicts
of the Japauese ruling classes, the formal inauguration of the
"new political party" will have to weit for a series of ugly
internal struggles end compromises among themselves, and that the
form of the "new perty" has yet to be decided, yet, as there is the
possibility for elements of the defunct political parties to regata
their former positions and influences, the "new party" will be
comparetively useful in cheating and stupefying the masses of people
and thereby may possiblyrecruit a comparatively larger number of
masses for the Japanese Fascists. Thus, the development of the
"new party" is ctill worth our attention.
For C. T. C.
Typist: James Lew
T.H.B.

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.95)
(Enclosure no. 5 to despatch no. 290, Apr11 11,)
(1945 from american Embaesy, Chung 1ng. China. )
RASTHICTED
U.S. USF ONLY
CO-ORDINATED TRAN SLATION CENTER
TR 389
CHUN GKING
30 MAR 1945
TRANSLATION: O.N.I./GUO DA
ACPION: O.W.I.
INFO: imbassy
oss, stovons
G-2 (2)
File
FrOM: "GIaFAnG RHBaO" (The Emanc1pat1on Da1ly),
Publiahed in YNAN, 5 February 1945.
ADVOCACY OF JAPANESE DIET MEMBERS FOR THE "NEW PARTY".
--Composite Report of the Editing Board--
In the following, we are introduging the opinions of Japanese
Diet members, NAKAJIMA Yadanj1 ( 3  次), MATSUMURA
Kenzo (松 村  三) and KIGURASHI Budayu (木  武太大，
for the organizatlon of a new Fasc1st party. Both NAKaJIM▲ and
MaTSUMURA were once membera of the defunot MINSEITO, while the
latter, particularly, has been the chairman of the Political
Affairs Investigation Committee of the Assistance Political
assoclatlon. KIGUu SHI was a member of the defunct SEIYUkAI.
The political inclinations of theso three men are all comparatively
moderate and their opinion can be taken as the representative of
the gereral opinion of the ussistance Political Associatlon.
Nak.JDM Yadanj1: "The organization of the ussistance
Political wssoclation is like a flock of varlogated feathers. It
comprises not only Diet menhers hut also persons of other olreles.
What is more is, these pe e do nct collahorate one with the
der. It hasn't got any r ot. for it tosn t got any branches.
 cle other band, lth trp Rurc assistance Associa
t.  ns a foctn, d u ir s mst us of the prefeoture
ruf ietes as mins to co'to with the lower streta, it
 cot any s. f haan t got any hed, for its head has
in merged amidat tae ofricial. Its head cnd ieat take actions
or tie'r own accord. . .. If there isn't a union of comrades,
ere sn't certairly a way out of the present politicul dilemma."
Cf. Or1ental concmlcs New Gazette, 29 July 1944.)
MaTSUMUk. Kenzo: "A union of comrades should be set up and
made to be united with the masses of the people. If there are
people who have different motives and opinions, they should also be
allowed to be formed Into organizatlons. There would be nothing
more stupid than to think 1t dangerous to allow such people to be
organized during time of war. . . . Let us grant the right to be
organized to every one. In this wey, birds of the samo feather
will flock together. A clear distinction will thus be made between
black end white. Should there be elements of anti-war inclination
among thom, it would be easy for us to swoop down upon them at one
stroke." (Cf. S.HI SHIMBUN. Wostern Part, 23 September 1944.)
KIGUk.SHI Budayu: "As tho hands and feet of the defunct
political parties in tho past wore extended directly Into the local
oities, towns and villages; so they wero able to effect a thorough
communication in transmitting the sontiments of the people to
those on the top and thereby were able to suize the popularity of
the people. . . . The political power of the rssistance Political
Association should be resolutely strengthened with a view to re-
establishing a national political organization capable of

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.96)
RESTRICTAD
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
TR 389 - page 2
CHUNGKING
30 MAR 1945
commanding the popularity of the people." (Cr. DIAMoND Magasino,
1 August 1944.)
Likewise, the ORIENTAL ECONOMICS, a magazine representing tho
viewpoint of the Japanese bourg cis classes, said: "The Imperial
Rule assistance Association. wis firstly started to be a political
party for Prince KonorE. It got astrey and changed its form and
turned into a semi-government or riztien... It began its
life as a still bern baby wnic. ci d when it wes still in its
mother's womb. The former ToJ a'l, inet w nt further to reduce ito
organization to make it more f ol..e then ver. It vould be
better if the new Cabinet would ispoive it recclutoly. The
Assistance Political Association migut be said, so to speak, a
child adopted because of the donth of th Imperjai Huje Ausistance
Association. It is but a substituto. The poiiiical thinring of
one political party for one government is absolutcly ntoierant to
our national polity. This explains the sad history of the
Imperial Rule Assistance Association. For this same reason the
Imperial Rule Assistance Association should not be allowed to live
Long. . . . It would be better to dissolve it to organize a new
und lively political party. Of course, such political party to be
Icrmed la not necessarily to be confined to only one in number.
jet us form several of these organizations of comrades really
lited." (Cf. Editorlal; ORINTAL CONOMICS, 5 August 1944.)
Typist: Szetu, Cheh
For.C.T.C.
T.H.B.
RESTRIOTER

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.95)
259man
many
a.2 (2)
File
OSS
cm
FROM:
Publ1shod 1 January 1945, in TOKYO
0/12/45
THE URGENT INSTALLAT LON OF UNDERGROUND FACTORIEB FOR PROTECTIO AGA
AIR RAIDB
mn
The Future of "Air-defensive" Faotorioq
Recently, eneay air raids on apanese homeland have be
military establishments, essential munitions faotories, and metropolitem.
airoraft carriers. It is also to be expeoted that the same type of blaat
Dc
ing as seen in GEkmanY will be repeated nere in our land.
Under suoh oiroumstanoes, it is obvious that by deponding upon the
evacuation of factories from the cities alone, as is now generally preetteed.
the perfectio of our aefensive struoture can hardly te attained. The prevale
soneme adopced consists oi tne dispersfon of plant equipment and buildings from
oonoentrated or inadequately proteoted distriots into far distant looalities.
However, no particular significanoe seems to be attaohed to this polioy,  
really do not know wiere safety is, judging from reoent bombing experiences! In
the oase of factories, the damage from air raids will not be limited to those
parts that receive direct hits, but will extend, to a lesser degree to all
surrounding buildings, and even to equipment. With the present diffioulty of
proouring supplies and materials, the task of reccvery will not be an easy one.
Viewed from these stand points, future evaouated. faotories or now
1nstallations must be looated in plaoes whioh are both convenient to transporte-
tion faoilitites as well as absolutely safe from air raids. Therefore, it is
urgently boped that the existance of underground faotcries situated in favorable
environment will be realized at the earliest possible moment. This applies not
only to the factories, but also to important structures in the big oities, with
the result that underground oities may even come into being. In previous
national defanse sohemes, underground faotories and cities suoh as these wre not
contomplated. Nevertheless, their evacuation bo the underground bas beoome the
most essential subjeot for considerution today. Even in Germany whioh may be
termed the headquarters of planning, the realizution of underground factories i
only a very recent affair, i.e., after her reversas at Stalingrad and the Allies
bembing of hamburg and other citles. It is reported that Germany, togother with
the exeoution of her faotory evucuation sohemes 1s devoting her entire energy
to the installtion of the so-culled tunnel factorius. Although we are not
entirely aware of the details, we understund, aocording to an explanation by the
Taohibana () railway ahief. that compuratively shallow tunnel  
there in level ground whcrein esseutial macinery only can be housed. ll other
installations for puolio welfare, suon as dining nalls, ohange roome, and
lavatories for tne workmen, as well as buildings for business use, are left on
the surfaoe. Locordingly, the strange acene or vantilators and ohimaeys stioking
their heads out unexpeotedly above the ground in the midat of meadows oan cfton
be sesn.

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.97)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTE
Th 494 - Page 2
CHUNGKING
14 MAY 1945
The Maginot line, penetrated by the Gerean forces at the begiming of
present Eurpoean War, is also a ype of undurground factory.W hd
more about how safely deep and  groun wark might be pondueted in it under ais
bombing oonditions. Moreovs the fact, that our soldiers at Rabeul have
recovered from enemy bomb1ng rounting to 700, 000 tons (sic) for the m
half a year and are still keeping up their resistance bravely against m 
is also ohiefly due to the gift of underground factories.
Another instance of underground oity may be found in Mosoow where unden
ground railways have since early days been built in the earth formations.
Disregarding profit considerations, and aiming intently at the attainment of
high safty factor against air bombing, the Russians refused assistance from
teohnioians of ot..er countries and oompleted the hard task by their owm pains-
taking exertions. Ine Russian capital mey be said to be favored by nature in
having under it a stratum of hard shale most suitable for digging tunnels. If
this is fully utilized, an underground city with acoommodations for 2 to 3 hundred
thousands of people can be built.
The existance of underground factories and oities, and several-story under-
ground buildings is not only neoessary for tho maintainenoe and increase of
produotion at present, but will also be found useful in time to come.
Three important benefits stand out in the oonstruotion of underground
factories and cities. Firstly, the proteotion of ossential installations from air
raids as above mentioned can be realized. Secondly, viewed from the stratigioal
stand point military burdens for the protection of important oities and factorses
as at present oan be alleviated. Air planes, for instance, hitherto assigned to
defense work may be partly diverted to the front. Thirdly, vaeant grounda which
have suddenly inereased recently, mey be turred into farms for the produotion of
more food stuffs. Other beneficial points besides the present objeotives my
make themselves evident with the progress of the work.
The Toohnique of Underground Factories
Whether in Berlin or in London, it seems that a certain gmount of
accomplishment has been made in the way of underground faotories. It is said t
that 5 to 15 meters will be considered safe as far as underground deptn is
oonoerned. However, with the development of tne explosive power in bombs, no
one oan be sure that these depths are absolutely free from danger. Therefore.
underground installations should be built with as thick a cover as possibls. In
underground work, not all places are suitable; investigations on the looality,
geology, and underground water table snould be first made to determine the
feasibility of the partioular location oonoerned. Moreover, favorable conditions
for housing the factory alone are not the only oriterion, as convenient and
spacious grounds will be needed for the construetion of aocessories such as living
quarters for staffs and workmen, offices, store-rooms, and transportation layosts.
In the case of the airoraft industry, in order to conoentrats a great many of its
subsidiary industries, specializing on individual parts, it is necessary to house
all related fagtories in the same belt underground which would give the appearanse
of a tunnel city. These elaborate plans should be fully considered in our main
oity and natiohai-defeapè plans, The urgent subjedt confronting us today is the
transfer of important workshops on surface to underground.

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.84)
DC/R
894.00/4-1145
4
HhaPackin
=7/17/40
RE-206
TCS.AE
. RESEARCH  PUBLICATI
OF STATE
FORFIN PUBLICATIONS UNIT
161945
0い

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.80)
PARTMENT OF STATE
OA
DIVESION OF
R(m. T). Wie
5. 1 ad L1 
i0
on shw 2.6 Th.
E.th.
A. .(CA)

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.97)
CO-OLDINATED TÉANSLATION CNTER
z 494 - Pago 3
CHUNGKING
Anyway, from engineering considerations, the geology and underground ates
need, first of all, be investigated. Localities where the underground water
table is deep-seated will be prefered. The effeet of the height of undergsomme
water lever often depends upon the height of underground structares, but ascoreing
to UJIIE FUMIYA (i 家文引). it is only necessary to dig about ton metore
below the surface in the case of shallow structures of the open-out type, and Ss
the case of deep installations like the tunnel type, it will be advisable to go
a depth of from 20 to 30 meters beyond the penetrating depth of the bombs. The
tunnel type forms the most perfect type for "air-de ensive" factories. Its
breadth is naturally limited, but it is suid that nder favoratle goologioal d
topographical conditions, a width as much as  meters can be safely construoted.
A Next, regarding the nature of the groind, it may be generally stated thet
the harder the better. However, granite struetirss are too hard to dia in and
will not answer the reyuirement of speud for mergency work. The big valley
stone (大 ) as found in Tocikon () Prefecture is of trong
tenacious texture and lends to economy both in men und materials. The softrooky
mountains often seen along the sea coasts or the hard sedimentary formations,
ordinarily known as "dotanban', or ths limestone beds are most suitable. It is
said that tunnelling can also te efficiegtly driven in the soft red, browmish oley
strata suoh as the loams of the Kanto () distriot. It is generally thought
that, judging from the underground water level, topographic oonditions, geologioal
structures, and transportation facilities, there are innumerable locations in the
country suitaule for the erection of underground faotories. Partioularly. in one
part of a certain prefecture, everything fits admirably into these ruquirements.and
large areas are available for the realization of underground cities. As these
belts possess ample space for aocomodating many installations underground, they are
regarded as exoellant sites fcr either evacuated or nerly oonstruoted plants.
Depth of Earth-cover and Size of Underground Openings
(Unit in meters)
Nature of Surface Layer
Ordinary red
Hard olay
Rooky formation
earth
三开
(1st Kind
30
20
10
Minimum Earth Cover(
(2nd Kind
20
13
7
Maximum Width of Opening
1 - 1.5
5
Varies with
2 - 3
type of rook
(with supports)
Maximum Height of Opening
23
5
- ditto -
Minimum Spacingof(lst Kind
40
30
20
Partition walls(
between openings(2nd Kind
25
20
12

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.97)
CO-OPDINATED TRANSLATION CENT
. 49 - Pag 4
CHUNGKING
14 MAY 1945
Aocording to FUJID, the relation between the tunael type of undergrousd
ing upon geologioal conditions and the ways of applioation, there will probehly
arise in practice many cases much more diffioult to deal with than those cites im
the table. FuIDA nas explained that the first kind indicated in the table is
applicable to the aocommdation of essential supplias or installations, and the
maximum length of a single opening should not be orar 50 meters, and in any ease
no longer than neoessary. To suit the requirments of storege or of the flow sbest
of operations, branch tunnels may be provided wnere necessary. The bramch tremele
may be laid out at right angles with the main oponings, or at two or more righs
angle turns as the nature of the operations may call for. In oase where right
angle bends are hard to make, protection walls with crooked passages may be befle
instead. Shield walls should be provided at all entrances and exits. Is cometswet
ed of consolidated earth, proteotion walls should have a thickness of l.2 moteres
in the case of earth bags, or tamped sand-filled partitions, they should be over
0.8 meters. Timber supports are necessary to guerd against the collapse of earth
embankments, both inside the tunnels and at the moutihs of openings. Side ditobee
should be dug to drain any underground spring water naturally into the open groued
outside. Moreover, ventilating shafts must be bored to afford natural ventilation
inside the tunnels. Where necessary, mechanical blowers for the partial or complet
regulation of underground air, and suitable means for the prevention of the forme
tion of dew may be adopted.
Installation of Underground Equipments:
As human beings are to stay and work underground, it bec mes essentiai that
the problens of ligit and air must be considered. The installation of artifioial
sun-light lamps is now possible and a certain structure in Tokyo today has already
been so equipped. with respect to ventilation, if vent holes are provided in the
ceiling and underground struotures, tunnels, and entrances are made to facilitate
the passing of air ourrents, not only will ventilation be accomplished through the
force of the wind, but natural ventilation may also be realized from the differenoe
in temperature between underground and surface airs. In addition, there are the
methods of ventilation by meohanical blowers and ozone generation. Water supply
and drainage problems underground are easily solved. In the event of attack from
poisonous gas, underground faotories can be comparatively easily protected through
air-tight arrangements at all openings communicating with the outside, while, on
the other hand, surface structures would te entirely vulnerable. For the transpor-
tation of supplies and products either into or out of the ground, inolines or oar
and passenger lifts can be oonstruoted without any diffioulty.
Aooording to UJIIE, expenditure for the engineering operations varies with
the type of factories. But, where as ordinary wooden structures having a minimm
safety faotor in strength cost from 600 to 700 yen per Tsubo ( 1 Tsubo equale
36 square feet, Japanese), underground tunnels canbe driven at a approximate cost
of 650 yen per Tsubo. The former requires much timber, while the latter uses lots
of oement.

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.97)
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CMTER
494 - Page 5
CHUNGKING
14 MAY 1945
From the above disoussions, it will be seen that there are many favorable
points in underground factories. Everythingdepends upon the determination of
government. TAchIBANA. the reilwey heed, has voiced the opinion that rather the
let individual faotories carry out their own reconttriotion work, it would be
bettle to organize a "syndicate of tunnel fastor es' and expedite the work through
government assistance. Anyra'. the investigati. f this problem by the
government is urgently oalled for.
As mentioned before: the thorough transfer of industries such a the aire
oraft manufacture to the undergrcund will not be a easy task. Heavy industries.
too, will meet with difficlties. However, it will be entirely feasible with
the maohine industries: or the telegraphio, telephonic, and radar industry. the
precision instruments, industry, and the chemical industry, which yield no gas
or dust. If ventilation and damp-prevention devioes are provided, those
industries that require low numidity cas also be installed underground. The only
drawback is that the workmen will beoome gloomy beoause of being barred from
sunshine the whole year around. but  the temperature underground is praotioally
constant for all the seasons, the environment is most suitable for precision i.
industries, and cool Summers and warm Winter will also dontribute to the pleasant-
ness of work. Factolies engaged in the manufacture of motors of airplanes and
their parts, for instanoe, should be removed underground without delay.
Thus, when large plants in considerable numbers are completed under
ploughed fields or forests and the work of production is conducted silently day
or night, it goes without saying that the strength it represonts will indeed be
very great. This should be the futur trend for all faotories and cities.
Typist: N. Y. Chen
For C. T. C.
T.H.B.

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.96)
CO-GRDIRATED TRANSLATION
TR 458
CHUNGKING
28 APR 1945
TRANSLATION: O.S.S./C.W.TU & GROUP
ACTION: P.BA. (18)
DNF0: Embassy (6)
G-2 (2)
File
FROA: SHANSI HWA PEI HSIN PAO (SHANSI NORTH CHINA NOWSPapeP,)
(in Chinese),
Published 1n TAIYAUN, SHANSI, 30 January 1945.
NEW JAPANESA CON CHIC POLICY IN CHINA WILL BE RRALIZED SOON.
The 'CHINA Problem' was discuSeed spiritedly in the 68th
sesslon of the Japanese Dict. SHIGsiITSU, the Minister of the
Groater Bast Asia Ministry, had explained the new Japanese
economic policy towards CHINA in detail to the members of the
Diet on the 2lst of this month and made a statement to the
effect that this new policy shall be put into effect very moon.
This matter has received the closest attention of all thoe
conoerned. This 1s because the inflation of currency i
SHaNGHAI has reached such a dangerous stageo that adequate
measures must be taken to stop this, In answering the euestid
raised by Mitsugu TANAKA (  ) SHIGEMITSU   th
following:
"The resources of CHINA have very important direct en-
nection with tho present war and consoquently the overmeent of
JAPAN must take drastic steps to achieve the complete control
not only of the resources but also of the inflation oblem
which has close relatlonship with tho smooth executio o the
new polioy in CHINA. In doing so the economio bond butweem
JAPAN and CHINA will be further strongthenod. The Govermment
intends to form a Supreme Council to supervise thepurobmsing
and control of all rasourcos and the council ls to be formed
the delegatos of tho various Japanese organizations in .
Local authoritios in various parts of ChINA have received
this piece of n-ws gravely. For example, SHIGeMITSu's statoment
was published in head 1ines by the HSIN CHUNG KUO PAO (New
CHINA Daily) on January the 25th. Tho Counc1l soformed w1ll
have tho function of an economic strategic office and it will
serve as an important weapon of JAPan in the contralized control
of production, purchasing, distribution and tranoportation of
resources in ChINA. This Council will work in close collabora-
tion with the Price Committee of the SHall HaI Japanese Eoonomio
Council. This new oconomio policy will bo put in force as soon
as Ministor HORIUCHI () roturns to CHINA.
For C.T.C.
Typist: Szetu, Cheh
T.H.B.

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT
DIVISION OF
OF
CENTRAL SERVICES
STATE
TELEGRAM
TELEGRAPH SECTION
APR 18
The
4-19.46
DC/R
MJW-1005
London
This telogram must bo
closoly parophrascd bc-
Datod ..pril 12, 1945
foro boing communicatod
to anyono. (SECRET)
Roc'd 8:10 p.m.
Office of
Socrctary ofSEASERNAFFAIRS
S
1 1945
Washington
HE
894.00/4-1245
Department of State
3732, .pri1 12, 7 p.m.
Following summary of political background matoricl
contained in this wcck's Far Eastorn diroctivc of British
PVVE is intercsting as showing combined thought on rocont
ovents in Japan of Forcign Officc, Ministry of Information
厂
and military.
1
Whilo the donunciation of the Russo-Japanoso noutrality
76
pact has probably come at a very inconvoniunt moment for
tho Japaneso, there is no cvidonce that it contributed
diroctly to the fall of thc Koiso cabinct, but tho probabi-
lity that some such action might be taken bofore tho
ond of ..pril may woll have been influential. It is boliovod
that tho suzuki cabinot should be considored to reprosont
Confidential File
the facado boliovod appropriate for extornal and internal
2
prosontation by the "statosmon around the throno". Suzuki
Anal
Cat
can be considerod a "grand old man" having the oar of the
Emporor and who commands tho loyalty of orthodox Japanose.
.. nice balanco has been struck in tho cabinct itsclf
botwoon

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.98)
-2- #3732, .pri1 12, 7 p.m. from Londos
botwoon all shados of Japanose opinion and it has
choson to moot any possiblo turn in ovonte. s
domands Susuki could be roprosented as the embodimont or
tho Samurai principlo or as tho friond of high-plase
British and .moricans who was a noar mortyr to domoeraey
in l936 when his murder was attompted by military oxtremi
In the samo way Togo, as Foroign Ministor, could be showm
cithor as a friond of Gormany and thus no man to sue for
poace, as a participator in the nogotiation of tho Russo-
Japanoso noutrality pact and a roputod friond of Russia,
or as a careor diplomat who only follows ordors. The
inclusion of Minami, tho olderly oxtromist, insuros closo
association botwocn tho govornmont and tho groat Japan
political association. Big businoss, tho civil sorvico,
and tho two formor mcin political partios aro all ropro
sontod, and tho army and navy mombors aro compotont sorvico
mon. It is boliovod that a concossion to jingoistic opinion
may havo boon mado by tho appointmont of Doihara as
diroctor gonoral of military oducation. Whilo many mombors
of the new cabinet are rolatively unkown as politicians,
thoy may well appoar to tho Japanese as competent porsons
roady to carry out the nocossary tasks. There is reason
to suppose that Suzuki's cabinet is a govornmont which will
continuo the struggle grimly onough and the appointments of
Sugiycoma

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.98)
-3 #3732, pril 12, 7 p.m. from London
Sugiyama and Hata suppqrt this boliof.
llison now attond London PWE wookly Far Bastern
moetings and can sond Similar summarios in futuro if dosi
London offico of OWI sonds one copy of comploto dirootive
to Goorgo Taylor, OWI, Washington, which may bo availablo
to Dopartmont. Ploaso instruct.
WIN.NT
RB

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.90)
SECRET
AMEMBASSY,
LONDON, (ENGLAND).
3013
The summary of British combined thought on Far
Eastern matters contained in your 3732, Apr11 12.
7 p.m., was interesting and useful and we would
appreciate the Embassy's continuing to send similar
telegraphic summaries whenever in its opinion the
information would be of service to the Department
Slettinius
(92213)
27
gm1B
$5A11  3
EE
DIVISION OF
SSS
DCR . EUR U.it
9
894.00
Confidential File
Dist.
00/4-1245
RBB
APR 18
FE
JA: ERD1okover:MP
SENA
4-16-45
ERB

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.91)
02
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Moscow, U.S..R.,
N0. 161d
April 12, 1945.
Intern r reli ical situution.
file
ES
URSTRICTD
Copy in Im
204 Ch
The  us  p s t  honor to enelose a trans
lutlon of  rt le y . Zhutov, sntitled "The
Interral Folivical ituation of Jaran". The article
uppoar in the Army daily, "Red star", on February 4,
1i. Zhukov is the foremcst author on Japan in the
Russian preus.
Althou h this urticle a c red sone months ago
it is suill of int ust ucu se o: its ruther com-
prehensive aha dis assionate unal si of the domestic
Ja anese politicul scene.
of current interest are the coiisnts on the
894.00/4-1245
psychological enan ges which ure occurrine in the
Ju ulese eople no: tut tlsir militury reverses
ure being brou ht home tie.
Zhukov likewise emy harizes the serious and
interreluted food an? production prrbleas now con-
7.t
tin the Japanese. He points out thut drawing
on Korean m? hisose 1 ber to re nedy the manpower
shortaee does at  inish the purden of the war on
the Japanese people. He concludes tt t.e war is
now definitely unpopular with the Japanese people.
740
Enclosure:
ou
Translation or rticle on
political situation in Japan.
JD:is
CS
original and hecte raph to the Department.
Copies to: 1) Embassy, Chungking.
1945
2) Office of the Politicul Advisers,
RUR
Headquarters, USF, China Theater.

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to despeteh
No. 1618, dated April 12, 1945,
from American Embassy, Mosoowe
(Translation)
SOURCE:
Red Star, February 4,
1945. Moscow.
THE INTERIAL PCLITICAL SITUATION OF JAPAN
By E. Zhukov.
In the course of the Puciric war substantial changes
have occurred. Anglo-American armed forces are under-
taking great offensive operutions on almost all fronts
of the Pacific theater of war. The Allies are moving
forard in Eurma. The troops of General IucArthur are
broadening their base of operations in the Philippine
Icl.ndr. Anerican B-29 long-range bombers are systema-
tically attackin: i utrial targets in Japan.
The activization of military operations in the Pacific
ocean and the approach of the war to the shores of the
Japanese islands has sn r e.ed t attention of inter-
national observers to the internal pclitical situation
of Japan.
The Japanese ress ivus little material upon which
to form an opilion on interual olitical shifts and moods.
Official infornation in Japan, even in the years of
relative flourishing of purliumentary policy, was
distinguished by its extraordinary one-sidedness and
incompleteness. Only by a collation of various indirect
indications is it possibl. to muke a general evaluation
of the direction and pers ctive of the political devel op-
ment of Japan.
In the sum ler of 1944 a chai u in the Japanese governg
ment took place. This event exerted a considerable influ-
ence on the political atmosphere in Japan. The forced
resignation of General Tojo, the recognized leader of
militaristic circles, showed that the idea of a military-
fascist dictatorsnip does not have support even in the
highest circles in Japan. General Tojo, whose government
in December l94l was the initiator of the unleashing of war
in the Pacific Ocean, in many respects copied the ill-fated
European fascist leaders. In the foreign press suggestions
were even made that Tojo would not mind playing the role of
a Japanese "fuehrer". There is no doubt that circles close
to General Tojo were really imbued with pro-Hitlerite "ideas".
All more or less independent people, known for their liberal
or simply moderate views, were mercilessly driven out of
the government apparatus. Those few officials who survived
that "purge" owed their survival exclusively to the fact
that they belonged to or were close to court circles.
Great

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Great hopes arose in parliamentary circles in Japan
in connection with the resignation of Tojo. The Parliament
in Japan formally exists and functions as it did before the
war. It wus not ablished or forbidden to function, but
the fascist "infection" poisoned in practice the applioation
of the Japanese constitution, which had existed unohanged
since 1889. During the years of the emergence into the
political lilelicnt of fascist officers and bureaucrats, the
relutive importance of the Japanese Parliament was greatly
decreused. The authority of the Parliament was always based
in the pust on its ability -- although to a limited degree --
to express public sentiment. The struggle of various
political urtics, Findin its reflection within the walls
or I rliuent, cre ed n impression f a curtain "independ-
ence" and an ability, sometimes at leust, to serve as a
soundin board for tne public opinion of the country.
In l940, parliamentary political parties in Japan were
dissolved. Any kind of criticism of the militaristio and
pro-fascist policy of Japanese cabinets was recognized as
inadmissible. An attempt wus made to unify the political
life of the country through the creation of a "united"
organization, able to absorb or subordinate to itself all
public and cultural organizations of the country. Such
an organization was the Taisei Iokusankai or "Association
for Aid to the Throne". The structure of the association
proved extraordinarily complicated and unwieldy. At its
head was placed the prime minister himself, and expenditures
for the mainteuance of the associution were included in the
state budget, whicn fron the very be inning gave it the
features of a clearly covermnent enterprise. Governors
headed local brunches of the association. The central
staff of the ssoci tion, rilled up with retired generals
and admiruls, wus overgrown with nunerous sections, bureaus,
committees and sub-comnittees. This cave to the new
organization a purely bureaucratic appearance. The absence
of a mass membership stren thened such an impression.
Fearing tne activity of the popular masses, not having
sufficient flexiuility to "condescend" to the level of the
ranks of the electors, the Association for Aid to the Throne
did not huve the capacity or the ability to replace the
former political purties. The leaders of the Association
soon proved to be generals without un army.
But Parliament, transformed into a voiceless gathering
of people deprived of the opportunity to criticize the
actions of the govern nent, ceased to play an active political
role.
The initiators of the creation of a "new political
structure"  as the beginning of a reorganization to a new
fascist order in Japan was called -- soon became convinoed
that the prohibition of political parties and the oreation
of

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
of the unified Association for Aid to the Throne had not
achieved its purpcse. The "national unity" of which
Japanese reactionary circles dreamed had not been realized.
In particuler the eputies in Parliament grouped themselves
as fornerly accordin to the principle of prior allegiance
to this or that political party. The Association for Aid
to the Throne proved powerless to hinder this.
On May 15, 1942, a new organization, Iokusai Se1jika1
or "Political  soe tion or Ald to the Throne", was created.
It was to unite ull   ties of Parliament and all members of
the dissolveu politicul urties on the basis of a certain
compromise. Parlia. tay roups were ranted the facade of
organizational independence within the framework of allegiance
to a unified war program. The parliumentary "Political
Ass ciation for Aid to ths Throne" was declared formally
independent and enal in ri hts with the first, that is, the
bureaucratic Acsoci tion for Aid to the Throne, remaining
"outside politics". This showed thut even General Tojo
recognized the im cse t ility of realizin the original plan
of absolute fuscist unification of the whole political life
of Jupan.
The bankruptoy of the military-political course of
Tojo and the creation in  summer of 1944 of a new govern-
mental combination in which prominent representatives of
former parliamentary groups were inclu ied, revived the hopes
of leaders of the old bourgeois-lancowner parties of Japan
for the possibility of their full legulizatio. In distinotion
from its predecessor, the Tojo government, th: cubinet of
Koiso-Yonai cannot be called openly pro-fascist. Soon after
the coming to power of Koiso, the Japanese press began to
discuss plans for the "re-creation" of parliamentary parties,
and the new cabinet of Koiso-Yonai made a series of gestures
which were interpreted as promises alol this line. The
sphere of the Associution for Aid to th T rone was narrowed.
The new government refused to give t sunport to this
unpopular, un-unified party that it  ad forly enjoyed.
General Abe resigned from the post of Pre ident of the
Political Association for Aid to the Throne a d was succeeded
by Admiral Kolayashi. (In Japan & trudition has become
established accordin to which naval men re supposed to be
distinguished by gre ter "liberalism" than army men. Thus,
this shift wis interpreted as a sin of  favourable attitude
toward parliamentary circles). This impression was further
strengthened after the recent d-signution of Kobayashi -- as
the representative of the Parliamenturians -- to the post of
Minister without Portfolio. In this connection, the crisis
of such a clearly semi-fascist organization as the "Union of
Youth" of Japan was a  ravated. The tendency of the leaders
of the organization -- prominent figures of the rightist camp,
the

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.97)
the rutired General Tatekawa and the retired Colonel
Hashimoto, -- to attain autonomy of this organization and
to rant to it special rignts transforming it not only into
a ur reserve, but to un independent channel of ideological-
political inculc tion of the population with a scist spirit,
failed. This failure uguin evidenced the lowering of the
influeuce oi prc-Iitlerite forces in Japan. Parliamentary
circles in Japan glainly are demanding not only limitation
or the rights of the reactionary "Union of Youth" but even
the disbanding of this organization. This has called forth
arp protest from some Japanese military ciroles. But the
immediutely following rosignation of General Tatekawa from
the post of leuder of the outh union, and of Colonel
Hashimoto fron tne lcadership of its organization in Tokyo,
show that the influence of perliamentary ciroles has some-
What increased. The new ohief of the "Union of Youth" is
a "civilian" -- the chairman of the Japanese Information
Bureau, ogata.
The course of the Paciic war undoubtedly is strengthen-
in the disarpointment of the Japanese people in the polioy
of ures: ion nd th romises connected with it which were
liberally given out at one time by pro-fascist politicians of
the Tojo type. Undouhte ly, this as been evidenoed by
increasine attention to iarl iult as a constitutional
orcun, able to a certuin extent to ruflect the sentiments
of certain sociul croups.
Tie Soth session of t Japanese Parliament, now in
session, worke in  at phere of crowing alarm occasioned
by the sharp worsenin  the militury-political situation
of Japan. The aajor e: of Prime liinister General Koiso,
given at the Both  sion or vhe Parliument, abounded with
very frnk a: lisuio. Roiso st ted tlat Japan has been in
a most serious situution since the beginnin of the war ...
and actuully stunds on the brink of a crisis, on the out come
of which  ends its rise or fall". Koiso stated that Japan
 l saly become "a field or battle" and may meet with
etill worse rials. The Japanese government introduced for
the considerution of the 86th purliamentury session over 30
legislative bills, mainly connected ith attempts for the
solution of pressing problems of wartime. The most urgent
 i difficult problens put forward at the session in the
speeches of Koiso und other ministers wer the following:
Increase in plane production, the develo ment of industry
on the continent und the destruction of the "barrier"
between Japan and the "ovcrseas territories", the decentrali-
zation of war plants und establishing some of them under-
ground, the maximum movilizatio of manpower, and the increase
in ocean transport with a simultaneous replacement of a part
of ocean haulage by land tranport (the development of the
chief railway lines in Japun and Korea).
The

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.97)
一5一
The Parliamentary session, havin listened to the
alornin s eeches of Koiso nd other ministers, did not
allow itself to criticize the covernment openly. However,
tie Japanese press wus marked by guite definite symptoms of
disappointment mixed with alarm, und even dissatisfaotion
with the activity of the cubinet of Koiso-Yonai. The
source of this diss tisfaction lies not only in the
str. tecic failures of Juran, but in the fact that the
government of Koiso, althou' it is different from its
predecessor, hus oi found in itself the streneth completely
to break with the for mer reuctionury political course.
Parlianentary circles re disuppointed with the
constant mane veruin: of the Foiso covernment, which has
not leo' d to legalizo the main bourgeois-landowner
political prties. Refloctin this disappointment, the
newspaper "Tokyo Shimbun", as uarly as Junuary 6th
indic. ted that "the people ure feeling a certain dis-
sutisfaction in re ard to the measures of the government."
On Janury l8th this same paper criticized the half-way,
compromise character o: the government policy. As is
clear from re ports in the Japanese press, Parliamentary
cireles ure purtic lurly dissatisfied by the parallel
existence of the "Political Associction for Aid to the
Throne", the "Associ tion for Aid to the Throne" (although
with curtailed runctions), tnd tne notorious "Youth
Union" with its pro-Hitlerite tecs cies. The discord
between tnese taree orgunizutions, formally called on in
an egual degree to serve as a "support" for the government,
hus even evoked projects for nerging tne1 in one "powerful"
union under tne title "All-Japanese Political Society".
Part of the Japanese press has supported the demand for
such unirication with proposals that this time the leading
role in a united organization shall be played not by
pro-fascist figures with shady reputations but by Parliamen-
tary politicians. It is doubtful, however, that any one
new organization which might be created on the basis of
the three different unions existing at present, could
really coutrol, or "aissolve"  thout trace the reactionary
forces which continue to exert a very strong influence on
the internal political life or Japan.
Japan has waged war for a long time. The Japanese
rulin classes in l93l were the first to start on the road
of violent repartition of the world after the first world
war. But down to l94l the aggresive actions of Japan with
few exceptions did not require too much effort on her part.
The saorifices made by Japan during the time from the autumn
of l93l until the moment of the coming of the crisis in the
course of the Pacific War, that is until the beginning of
1944, were comparatively small. Under these conditions the
Japanese man in the street was much more easily subjeot to
military pro-fasoist propaganda which had inculoated faith
in the military invincibllity of Japan and in the absolute
"superiority" of the Japanese spirit. Only comparatively
recently did Japan gradually begin to know the bitterness
of

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.97)
一 6 -
of defeat. Now, this feelin of weakness before super ior
and constantly rowins forces of tne enemy inevitably must
excrt and already is exerting influence on Japaneme
psycholo y. The Japanese press is already unanimously
remarking th't the former success of the high-throne
chauvinistic propugunda with the inevitablo declamations
on the "superiority of the Samurai spirit" 1s losing its
influence. The fact that the Japanese capital is subjeot
to frequent raids of Americun boabers of course seriously
affects the mood of the population. Tais is indicated by
the frequent complaints of the Japanese press about all
kinds of "insidious runours", which undermine the people's
spirit of resistance.
The logic of the development of military events and
in articular the economic consequences of the prolonged
war are reflected in the attitudes of the population. In
spite of she hith degree of mobilization of Japanese
industry for war needs, fuctories are not coping with
growing war orders. The recent dismissal of the Japanese
inister or Araaments -- the prominent industrialist
Fujiwara, and his replacenent by Yosida, a representat ive
of bureaucratic circles, aroused a certain perplexity and
oven agitation amon a certain part of the Japanese bourgeoi-
sie. Food difficulties are also making themselves felt.
Japan always imported a c nsiderable part of her food
requirements. Under war conditions this import has proved
very jirficult, not only because of the sharp decrease in
means of transport (chierly shipping) but because of the
approach of military operations on the seu and in the air
to the Japunese islunds.
At the beginnins of January 1o 45, the Japanese news-
paper "Asahi" noted with alarm that "with the increase in
intensity of the war, the relationship vetween demand and
supply or rice una also or other rood products will
become still more strailel thi yuar... Prospeots for the
rice harvest in kocea are u ifuvourabl;  ospeets for the
import of rice from Formose are also unfavourable owing to
dirficulties with transport." In the rationed supply of
the urban population of Japan, the chief place has hiterto
been occupled  rice. The negligible quautity of fish
(75 grammes per week)  the almost complete absence of
other products, especially fats and meat, is making rice
the only means of nourishnent in tho ration of the average
Japunese. If now Japan is deprived of the possibility of
importine rice fron the territories temporurily controlled
ly her, this may have very severe consequences for her.
The problem of te utilization by Japan of the manpower
and material resources of other eastern Asiatic countries
doternincs to a large extent the formation of a correot
judgement on the ability of Japan to withstand further
prolonged war stresses. The Japanese prime minister General
Koiso has repeatedly emphusized in his putlic speeches that
the present war has forced Jupun to extend the law on military
service

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.96)
一7 -
service to korea and or losa. Korean and Chinese workers
have seen brought into Japan in large number to fill out
the lack of munpower both in industry and agriculture. The
util zation of this imported labour force and the calling
up for the army of a part of the colonial population of the
Jupanese mpire means, ho mever, a diminution of the burden
of war borne by the populution or the mother cou try. In
Jupan itselr, as early us te middle of october of 1944,
a law was adopted on tne calling up into the urmy of 17 year
oli youtis. This indicates the consiuerable strain of the
Jupanese situation in regurd to nanpower reserves. The
Japunese press therefore liacy is iving special atten-
tion to the necessity of military truinin for the whole
Japanese populution. This orcnly indicates the approach
of real dan er of enemy landing operutions on Japanese
territory.
Undoubtedly the wur, havin turned its unpleasant side
to tle Japanese, is ceasing to te popular. Already the
soncrousIe "sacred war" und the "sphere of
joint flourishin", e., lave lost their former magnetic
inrluence. A sizable portion of the population of Japan,
evidently, already is beginnine to perceive such declamation
as a "briiliur t" uri cll, concealing bitter kernels of
ruality.
 ui o larity of the war in Japan is already so
evident that Japanese government ficures are persistently
proving that this war was forced on Japan and that it bears,
they say, a purely defensive character. In the government
declaration publisisd in. conicclior with the anniversary
of tha adoption of the so-called "Greater East Asia Charter",
the follv. in is stated: "The present war is a war of
solf-delence, a var for the preservution of our nutional
ol ey, a war which Jaran Was forced to wage". These same
notes were sounded in the seecnes of the Japunese Prime
inicter Koiso unc the linister of Foreign Affairs shigemitsu
t tie 86th Parliumentary Sessio. Tie eneral course of
military events in the Pacifio Ocean is eloguent evidence
of the Iact that this is only the result of the changing
relationship of forces of the combatants, and of the
natural desire to tet rid oi responsibility for the war,
which Japan will not win.
JOH:1s

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.93)
INCOMING
TELEGRAMAn
STATE
NL1929
Mosoow via
Dated April 15, 1960
Rec'à l1;eo a.m.
Secrotary of State
Washington
1172, Firteenth.
PRAVDA for April 13 publishod articlo by As. Semonov
entitled "filitary-political difrioultios of Japan".
Sumyary follows:
1 Chango of government in Japan must bo viewed in
light of military and political situation of country..
Fires of war aro rolontlossly approaching Japanose i..
lands and have alroady roachod their inner defense linos
Intensirication of air bombardmont may bo oxpected.
American observors boliovo that rocont flont oporations
fil
off Japanese coasts forcshadow big combined operations
on appraoches to Japan. Capturc of Iwo Jima and landing
PAKLMENT
on Okinawa are important ovonts. Japan has been foroed
to concentrate min forcos in Japan itsolf and Japanese
press prodicts invasion of Japan. During war, Japan'
economic difficulties havo mountcd and country cannot
compoto with enomics in war production.
DCR - EUR Unit
R
Japaneso militarists
Anal.
APR 1 9 1945
Rev.
8.
Dis.

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.97)
-B-. l172, Pisteenth, from Nosoow via Aray
Japanoso miltariete plans for blitskriog have cell
Results of ths miscalculation are apparent.
Japanese peoplo cannot fail' to see seriousness of
situation. Most difricult trials for Japan are still
ahoad. Koiso cabinot did not solve any of urgent prob
loms loft to it by Tojo. Koiso undertook many measures
to prepare to ropulse enomy invnsion, such as law on
general labor mobilisation, et cotera, but these measures
can scarcoly produco any substantial ofrect.
Japanese offtcial circlos are attompting to amolior-
atc situation by manouvers dosigned for extornal and
intornal conaumption. Theso include, in partioular
establishment of now political party and diesolution or
"association for aid to throne" politicnl association
for aid to throno. Above associations were established
aftor virtual suppression in 1940 of bourgeois parlia
montary parties. They wore designed to sorve as bases
of political structure of Gorman type, taking into ao-
count peculiaritics of statc structuro of Japan. "Now
sharp changes in the international situation havo im-
pollod the Japanoso leaders to give up such organizations
and to form, as a boginning at any rate, ono party".
Apparontly initiators of this plan countod on croating
appcaranco of abandonmont of Fascist political systom
Furoro connootod

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.96)
一.
-3- #1l72, Fifteenth, from Moscow via Army.
Furore connectod with ostablishment of new 
indioates attempts to distract attontion of population
from serious defeats.
Fornor Primo Ministor Koiso approvod 1dea of found
ing now party. At samo timo he tried to strengthen
got
ernmont by including porsons without diroct responsibil-
ity of war in Pacific and capable of assuring necessary
contact with industrial world. Some of now cabinet mom-
bers wero sharply criticized by Fascist-minded circlos.
Koiso cabinet provod poworloss to altor unfavorable
dovelopmont of military ovonts in Pacific. Nowspapor
ASAHI has written that dangor may arise of destruction
of Japanose people.
Japan has onterod most difficult period of war.
"A significant influence on her position is being
oxcrted by the goncral intornational situation, cherao
torized by inevitablo and imminent downfall of Hitlorito
Gormany."
HARRIMAN
NPL

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT
INCOMING
.1OF
CENTRAL SERVICES
TELEGRAM
STATE
TELEGRAPH SECTION
77
D
RS-754
Moscow via Army
This telegram must be
paraphrasod bcforc being
Dated ∴pril 18, 1945
communicatod to anyone
Rec d 8:35 a.m.
other than a Governmont
Agoncy. (RESTRICTED)
Socrctary of State
9
Washington
1227, pri1 18, 9 a m.
894.00/4-1845
"Worsoning of Japan's Military and Political
Situation" by . Arkadyov is titl of article appear
m.7.
ing in W.R AND WORKING CL.SS on April 1. Writton
a
with Japan, this articlo is on the wholo objoctive
(asd)
in .tono. Gcnoral argumont is that Koiso's Cabinot
has failed to solve its inaugural probloms of im-
proving war situation, raising production, incroasing
food supply and restoring Japanoso morale. Author
points out that undor Koiso Japan's military position
has scriously dctcrioratod with Imorican victorics in
Philippinos,carrier basod raids on Tokio, capture of
Iwo Jima and concontratod air bombardmont of Japan's
C
largost industrial contors; that simultanoously
Anal
Rev
apan's oconomic situation is growing vory tonso as
APR 2 5 1945
FDLAD
rosult of undor production in war industry and acuto
shortagos of

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-#1227, ∴pr11 18, 9 a.m. from Moscow via Army
shortagos of labor and food; and that "alarming
procosscs" arc taking placo in Japan's intornal
political life as Japanoso pooplo bocomos incroasingly
aware of incvitability of dofoat. (Sent to Dopartmont
as 1227 ropoatcd to Chungking as 27).
Of intorost is intorprctation placod upon pro-
poscd formation of now Jipanosc political party with
concomitant dissolution of impcrial rulo assistanco
association and imporial rulo assistanco political
association. uthor statcs that thosc associations
wuro oxprcssion of so-callcd "now political structuro",
1.c. fascization of Japan for purposo of pursuing a war
policy. Formation of ncw political party is to bo first
stop in liquidation of this Nazi typo political structure,
which no longor suits cortain Japaneso lcadors "undor tho
now conditions". Somo mombcrs of Parliamont and Govorn-
mont officials aro trying by thosc moans "to croato som-
blanco of rcturn to constitutional parliamontary in
stitutions, which, in thcir opinion, may provo usoful
in forthcoming difficult poriod".
∴rticlc statos in conclusion that "root of acuto
military and political crisis into which Japan has
ontored must bo sought in fundamontal chango that has
takon placo

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.97)
73
-3-1227, April 18, 9 a.m. from Moscow via Irmy
takon placo in ontirc intornational situation, in
bankruptcy of Axis, and in rapidly approaching
collapso of Hitlcritc Gormany." This lino of
roasoning is notoworthy as advancing major promiso
for possiblc futuro argumont that Russian dosorvos
a major sharc of crodit for outcomo of Pacific war
as result of its ovorwholmingly docisivo rolo in
bringing about "bankruptcy of xis" and "collapso
of Hitlorito Germany".
KENNAN
WFS

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.97)
894.00/4-1945
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Transmitting article by Sir Robert Craigie concerning
significance of Suzuki Government's accession to power.
894,
00
4-1945
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
22494
(Despatoh, telegram, lastruction, letter, eto.)
Dated
April 19,1945
From
London
Txx
File No.
740.0011 PW/4-1945
eme
U. S. GOVERNENT PRINTING OPFICE 1-1540

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.97)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Clippings enclosed relative to reaction of Indian
Nationalist press in Bombay to Japan's abandonment
of 'Greater Asia' Policy.
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
#1989
(Deepatch, telegram, instruotion, letter, eta.)
Dated
April 20,1946
From
Rombay
xxTox
File No.
845.00/4-2045
eme
U. 6. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OPFICE 1-1860

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.92)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
AIR MAIL
FOR GERMANY
DC/R
Paris, April 20, 1945
RESTRICTED
o. 270
SUBJECT: JAPANESE DOCUMENT REPORT.
Cn
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose a copy of a
Japanese Document Report of April 11, 1945, re-
894.00/4-2045
garding conditions in Japan, issued by the Office
of the Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, SHAEF.
Respectfully yours,
mer ene
1.7
4
Robert Murphy.
Enclosure:
Japanese Document Report of April 1l, 1945.
veo
800
RM:co
US/J
DCR - EUR Unit
Ana
00
R1
C.
1945
Dist.

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.97)
Serial CD/028
SUPHEVE HEADQUARTERS
RESTRICTED
ALLIED EXPEDITIONARY FORCE
Office of Assistent Chief of Staff, G-2
MAIN HEADQUARTRS
11 April 1945
JAPANTSE DOCUMENT REPORT
SUBJECT: Janan, Conditions In
1. Identification of document:
a. Description:
Renort.
2. Cantured:
(nlace) Frankfurt A/', Germany
(date) Anril, 1945
(by) Jmanese Section, G-2, SHAF.
originalx.
3. Reccived from: Director, Lurgi Gesellscheft
fur Chemie u. Huttenwessen.
4.
Contents:
This nine nage document covers the general economic end
political impressions of an engincer sent to Jeman by
Lurgi who was in that country between March 1941 and
Sentember 1942. The above renort is quoted below:
Tindrucke von einem Aufenthalt in Janan
"Im Auftrage meiner Firma hielt ich mich in der Zeit vom 1. Marz
1941 bis 39. Sent. 1912 in Janan muf. mahrend der ersten vier Yonate
war  ch auf Kiuschu, der südlichen Inscl des jananischen Mutterlandes.
tätig, wo ich eine Anlage zur Gewinnung von Koks, Teer und Oel aus
Hoklc in Betrieb setzte. vahrend der übrigen Zeit hatte ich meinen
Tohnsitz in Yokohama und bearbcitete in dem Büro unserer jananischen
Vertretung einschlagige Projekte auf dem Brennstoffgebiet.
Die Beurteilung der einzelnen Probleme kann keinen Ansnruch
darauf erheben, volikommen und allgemein zu sein, da einer ntheren
Konntnis der jananischen Verhaltnisse dic rassische und steatsbarger
liche Einstellung des Jamaners und weiter die Schwierigkeiten soiner
Sprache und Schrift entgegenstehen. Er bringt dem Tissen ein sehr
starkes Misstrauen entgcgen und lässt sich nur in seltenen allen
auf ein Gespräch über seinc cigonen staatlichen Verhaltnisse ein.
Tahrend meines Aufenthaltes hatte ich Gelegenheit, ausser mit an-
sässigen Deutschen auch mit Jananem in Gedankenaustausch zu kommen.
soweit dies bei der jenanischen Mentalitat miglich ist. Mit neutra
len Auslandern habe ich ebsichtlich keinerlei Beziehungen unter
haltn. Die Gründe hierfür sind im folgenden dargelegt. Meine Aus-
führungen sind nur als eine 1edergabe meiner eigenen subjektiven
Eindrücke zu werten.
Bei meiner Anknft in Janan befand sich das Land seit Jahren
im Konflikt mit China und hatte blutige Auscinandersctmungen mit
Russlend an don mandschurischen Grensen gehabt. Is hatte also bereits
beträchtliche Trumenkontingento im besctzten China bs.an der
schurischen Grenze zu unterhalten. Dies und der wacheendew

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.96)
TUTXIOTED
liche Druck Nordemerikas führten bald su Minsch
Rationierungen gewisser Verbrauchsgäter. Soäter
rungen auf weitere Artikel ausgedehnt, wobei mam sich
das deutsche Vorbild hielt. Direkte und indirekte Steuer
erhäht. Das Volk hatte laso allmählich gevisse wirtechar
belastumgen zu übermehmen. Dasu kem die verstärkte Binberufu
männlicher Arbeitskräfte und einrigoros durchgefuhrter Ausben
zivilen Luftschutzorganisationen, die die noch zu Heuse befindlichen
Familienmitglieder aufs stärkste beensnruchten.
Ich habe von keinem Janener ein Wort der Ungufriedenheit gebärt
odcr ger des Zweifels an den Nassnahmen der Regierung. Jede Anordmm
der Führung ist unfehlbar und mird kritiklos durchgefuhrt und jeder
Finzelnc ist sich der bedingungsloscn Unterordnung unter den Staats-
gedankon bewusst. Diese seelische Grundausrichtung bestimmt Denken
und Handeln jedes Janeners über Parteien und religiösc Sekten hinweg.
Sie ist begründet in der schintoistischon Teltenschauung des Ahnen-
kults und der Berufung des Tenno, soin Volk zur "eltherrachaft su
führen. Dies gilt allgemein für die Masse des Volkes; einige wenigo.
die von der amerikanischen Zivilisation oder der bolsche-istischen
Lehro angekränkelt sind, fallen nicht ins Gewicht. Intsprechend ist
die Einstellung des Durchschnittsjananers den Erfordornissen des
Kricges gegemüber. Er rechnet mit ihm als einer gegebenen, steats-
motwendigen Sache und zicht mit einer uns Euronäem nahe unfasslichen
Sclbstverständlichkeit die ketzten Konsequenzen.
tird der Soldat eingezogen, so nimmt er von der Familie für
immer Abschied, da er mit dem Tode rechnet, der ihn zum Helden macht.
Entsprcchend ist die Finstellung der Heimat, wo dedc Ume mit der
Asche cintes Gefallenen und jeder Verwundete euf der Strasse gegrisst
wird. Fahrt ein Vervndeten-Trensnort durch einen Bahnhof, so bleibt
alles entblössten Haumtes stehen, bis der Zug vorbei ist.
Der Krieg ist auch in Janan nicht nonulßr, aber das ganze
Volk gleubt ebenso an seine Totwendigkeit wie an sein siegreiches nde
Der 8.Dez. 194l war für das jenanische Volk genau so über
reschend wio für uns. Irgendein stärkerer Tinfluss auf das zivile
Leben war zunachst nicht feststellbar. Schliesslich bedeutete die
Kriegscrklärung nur eine Erweitcrung des bereits bestchenden Kriegs-
zustandcs im ostasiatischen Raum auf die den meissen gehsoenden
Schutzgebiete. Dementsprechend betrachtet der Janener diesen Kricg
als cinc Angelegenheit Ostasiens, die, vie die Zeitung schrieb,
"vom curon"ischen Krieg nicht ganz getrennt werden kann. " Die innore
Anteil:chme an Erfolgen des deutschen oder italienischen Verbtndeten,
erscheint mir nicht so gross, wie man in Deutschland annimmt. Ein
Grund liegt sicherlich In dem korrekten Verhsltnis Jenan-Russland.
Neben dem deutschen Tehrmachtsbericht, der auf den ersten Seiten
der Zeitungen gebracht mird, stehen Meldungen aus Moskau und Kubit-
schev. Trotzdem hat der Jananer die Kimmfe an der mandschurischen
Grenze nicht vergessen und sieht in Wadiwostok die grosste Gefahr
für sein Imperium. Auffallend ist eine im vergengenen Sommer ein-
setzcnde Aktion, die den Bau und Ausbau von Luftschutzräumen zum
Zicl hat und die mit fieberhaftem mifer betrieben mird. Da mit
einom grisseren Angriff von See her kaum zu rechnen ist, dürfte es
sich vorlcgond um Sicherungsmassnahemen gegen Angriffe vom Festland
handcln.
Dio grossen militärischon Erfolge der crster Monate fuhrten
zu ciner gowissen Ueberheblichkeit gegentiber der -cissen Rasse
allgemcin. Der Japaner kann nattürlich Deutsche, nglander und
Amcrikaner nach dem Aussehen nicht voneinander unterscheiden. Der
rassischo Unterschied zmischen gelb und reiss ist su gross, als
dass sich in abschbarer Zeit eine gefühlsmssige Annäherung der
weisscn Achsenmächte und der Jepener anbahnen kännte. Grosse Schau-
tafeln in den Fenstom der Zeitungen zeigen des Verhältnis der Vor-
scnku son von feindlichen Kricgsschiffen zmischen Janan, Doutachland
und Italicn, wobei nattrlich der Jenener bei mcitom am besten mb-

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.96)
REOTHIOTED
schneidet. Dor Kricg ist dann su mde, wenn 
London und New York cinmarschieren, verktndete die
die Frage der Bofriedligung der Welt aufgororfen murde.
weitcres v rallgemcinert merden, sind aber für dic Grundeinstollw
charaktcristisch. Auf dcr anderon Scito habe ich tiefe Sympath
Deutscilend und bcsondors für den deutschen Soldaten feststellon
könncn, dor nach jananischer Auffassung dcr z-citbeste der melt ist.
d.h. dem jenanischon Soldaton nahczu gIcichkommt.
Japon kämmft um dio Schaffung eines ncuen Gross-Ostasien
untor sciner Führung. Allc militarischen und politischen Oporationen
richten sich ausschilicsslich auf dieses Ziel.
Der in Japan lebendc Auslander, besonders der "eissc, wird
von der jananischen Polizci eusscrordentlich scharf tbermacht. Dabei
mird grundsätzlich kein Unterschied zvischen den einzelnen Nationen
gcmacht. Ueber jedcn einzclnen vird genau Tagebuch gefuhrt. Dasu
tragen nicht nur die Polizciorganc sclbst, sondom auch Hausango-
stclltc, Büroangestellte und sonstigo Jananer, mit denen der oieso
häufigor in Berührung kommt, bci. Unengonchm mird diese Uebermachung
brsondcrs auf Reisen, mobei men haufig und nicht immer in geschickter
Art kontrollicrt -ird. Sclbst für Mahrten zwischen Yokohema und
Toko sind besondcre Rciscausweise crforderlich
Tährend frther dor Tcisse nach englishchem und emerikanischom
Vorb:ld im Auftrcten und Lebensstil den Herrcnmenschen snielte, wird
ihn besondors srit dom Kriegseintritt Janans mehr und mehr die Rolle
oncs gcduldeten Gastes zugewiesen. Der Jemaner gibt sich houte
bemusst den Anschein, als könne er auf allen Bebicton auf die
L istumgon der -eissen Rassc verzichten. So glaubt er besonders in
d.r Technik den Vorsnrung des 7eisson cingeholt zu haben. Dezu kommt
cinc rocht skrurollose Ausnutzung vissenschaftlicher und technischer
Forschung im jenanischen Interesse. Vor einem Jahr wurden nicht nur
di. vichtigsten missenschaftlichen Werke dor Feindstaeten kopiert
und vortricben, sondsm auch dcutsche Bucher, vor allem tochnischen
Inhelts, ohne Erlaubnis der Verlage nachgedruckt.
Ein bosondcres Kapitel ist Sorache und Schrift. In Anbetracht
dor Schierigkeitcn sind uach heute noch eingchende Kenntnisse der
Sorache unter den Weissen schr selten. Der heutige Jenaner steht
aber auf dem Standpunkt, dass ebenso vie er in Amerika oder Europa
dic Landcssprache beherrschen muss, der Weisse sich in Jepan die
nti sten Kenntnisse der jananischen Snrache anzueignen hat. So
verschminden heute in der jananischen Offentlichkeit, z.B. auf
Bahnhdfen, die lateinischen Schriftzeichen immer mehr, sodass der
Ausländer auf die Kenntnis wichtiger jananischer Schriftzeichen und
Zahlen angewiesen ist.
Der Jananer ist schr emnfindlich gegenüber Kritik, die an
seinem Land und seinen Lebensgevohnhoiten geubt mird und loider gibt
es cinen nicht uncrhcblichen Prozentsatz unter den Weissen, die nur
die negativen Seiten des Volkes sehen. Hieraus resultiert denn
lctztanendes cin wechsendes beiderseitiges Vissverständnis. Der
Euro äcr und bosonders der seit Jahren ansässige Resident misst puch
houtc noch die jananischen Minrichtungen und Dinge vielfach mit dem
Masstab seines eigenen Landes. Er wird sich jedoch im Laufe der
nächston Jahre zu der Einsicht bequemen müssen, dess der Janener
in Jeoan und schliesslich in ganz Ostasien nach eigenem Gutdtnken
schaltcn und walten kann. Dies würde wcsentlich su cinem besseren
Verstandnis beitragen.
Von den z. zt. in Jann ansässigen Weissen stellon die Deut
schen den stäriksten Prozentsatz. Eine Vertiefung der permenlie
froundschaftlichen Vorhältnisse ist nicht feststellber.

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRIOTED
wohl die Verschiodonheit dor Lebensgovohnhoiten und ver
Auffassung über die Stellung der Frau entgegen. Bine
zwischon deutschen und japanischen Tamilien gibt es
sclten varen, wird dies houte von boidon Seiten energisch unt
bunden. Grosse Ancrkonnung bringt der Jepener den Taffentater
deutschen Soldaten cntgegen. So mie dor Terno die jenenische
id c vorkärpert, ist der Namo dos Fuhrers für den Japaner das Symbol
der dcutschen Macht.
Der Doutscho vird ebenso vie jeder andore Ausländer polizoi-
lich übervacht. Bosonders seine nersönlichen Bosiehngen su Angohs-
rigen der neutralen Steaton werden peinlichst geprüft. Leider ist
dicses Misstrauen nicht zanz unbegründet, da auch hier der Deutsche
dazu neigt, geheimzuhaltonde Vorgängc auszunlaudern. Von den Neutre-
len sind dic Schmcizor insofern interessant, als sie nach Ansicht
der Jananer aufgrund einer gerissen mirtschaftlichen Abhängigkmit
für England Snionago betrciben. Eine engore Berthrung mit Angohsrigen
frendor Nationen ist tunlichst zu vermciden.
Einc besondero Stel'ung nehmon dic Staatenlosen ein, von denen
dio Toissrussen den stBrksten Anteil bilden. Ein Teil von ihmen hat
wohl bereits die jananische Staetsengchärigkeit engenommen. Leider
treten immer wieder Falle auf, in denen ausgebürgerte Deutsche sich
dor feindlichen Snionage zur Verfügung stellen.
Dic Behandlung dor internierten Briten und Amerikaner mar,
sorcit ich beobachten konnte, schr enstaidig. Die Botschaftsangehsri-
en lebten in einem schr schön gelegenen Hotel, hatten sogar die
Frciheit, Ausfitige in die Umgebung zu machen. Am Mbchenende mar hier
häufig dcr russische Botschafter zu sehen.
Ucber die Ristungsindustrio können kcine konkreten Angaben
emecht werden, da kaum cin Auslander Einblick in die Rastungswerke
und deron Produktionsziffern bokommt. Nach beendigter Inbetrieb-
setzung des Schwelwerkes wurdc mir ein nochmaliges Betreten der
Anlage unter allcrlci fadenscheinigen Gruden unmiglich gemacht.
Interessent ist immerhin, dass auf dem Treibstoffgebict grosse
Anstrengungen gemacht merden, die in Japan, Mandschukuo und Nord-
china gcfördcrten Rohstoffe, hauntsächlich also Kohle, in gestei-
gorten Masse für Oelgowinnung heranzuziehen trotz des Oelreichtums
der croberten ostindischen Gobiete.
In Bozug euf scine Industrie und besondcrs seine Rastungs-
industrie führt der Jananer das Gebot der Geheimhaltung hundert-
prozcntig durch. In wichtige Betriebe bekommt kein Auslander
Einblick, bleichgültig, ob r ciner befreundeten oder neutralen
Nation angehärt, es sei denn, er bringt neue Konstruktionen oder
Verfahren mit, Gerade dicsem Punkt sollte in Deutschland grössere
Boachtung geschenkt merden. Der Jenaner versteht es meistorhaft,
dic Entwicklungsarbeit aller Staaten auf technischen Gebieten mit
oder tcils gegen dcren Einverständnis seincm Volke dienbar zu
machen. Ich halte cs daher für engebrecht, den Jananer in Deutsch-
land cbenso vorsichtig zu behandeln, mie wir Deutsche in Japen
behandclt werden, vor allen Dingen ber ihm nur solche techniechen
Betriobe oder Verfahren zugänglich zu machen, deren Aufbau und An-
wendung in Janan fur uns von wesentlichem mirtschaftlichen oder
kriegsirtschaftlichem Interesse ist.
Der Kampf Janens um die Fuhrung im ostasiatischen Raum ist
der letzte Schritt zur välligen Gleichstellung mit der meissen Rasse.
Die Voraussetzungen für die Durchführung dieses Kemmfes sind durch
den europäischen Krieg gegeben. Unter diesem Gesichtsnunkt sieht
der Jepaner scin Bindnis mit Deutschlend und Italien. Dic meissen
Nationen vorden in Ostasien in diesem Kriege alle ihre Vorrochte
verlicren, seion cs solche territorialer, sprachlichor oder kultu-

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
rollor Art. Dies ist das Ziel des japanischen Imoe
dafür ist das Jepenische Volk bereit, alle Opfer su 
For the A C of S, G-2.
Frameis P. miller
FRANCIS P. MILLER
Colonel, GSC
D/Chiof, Special Scctions
DISTRIBUTION:-
A C of S, G-2, War Department
D.M.I., War Office
D.N.I., Admirelty
C.N.O., Navy Department
A.C.A.S., Air Ministry
S.O. (I), ANCXF
COMNAVEU, InTelligence Officer
ComNavFor France, Intelligence Officer
Political Officors:
Mr. Steel (British)
Mr. Reber (Americon)
-2 Division:
Documents Scction
Economic Soction.

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.96)
894.00/4-2445
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Sava Kirov requested by Sofia Foreign Office to
return to Bulgaria; consent of Allied Control
894,0014-2445
Commission for return allegedly granted.
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
To1#2380
(Deepatoh, telegram, iastruotion, letter, eta.)
From
DatedApr 24, 1945
Bern
xxx
File No.740.00119 Control (Bulgaria)/4-2445
IT PRINTING OPFIGE 1-1840

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.91)
In reply refer to
may 10, 1965
ro
MENOHANDUM
DACHLI
To: Lt. Colonei udward H. Miller,
Liaison urrioer witn the state Deparement,
Militars Intelligenoe Division,
war Department.
F: Freseriox B. Lyon, Chler, Livision or Foroign
894.00/5-1545
activity Correlation
Jüs.: Translati n or Jajanese International Who' .
In acoordance witn your request, there 1s enelosed
nercnitn a p c tut cury or a Japanese International
who's who wilon ls belleveu to contain valuable infor
mati n regardil.g Jaranose liberals. It ls umderetood
inat the boox ountains in large part blographie infor-
mation cn Jarancee left wing Individuals, although i8
inoiucus us a cloas, information on other urominent
Jupunese reraons, Europeans and Americans. It ls felt
thhat the bock has important pusslbilities and may present
infuruat on on names whion may be very useful to this
Jovernuent in its operations in Japan. It is folt that
 souret claauirication aboulu be given the matters
connected with the wora.
it wiil de appreolatea ir the possibilitles oan
ve e: zored witlhin the vur Deyartmont looking to the
translation or ar ropriute seetlons of this work. If
this can be done. the De artaent of State would like 8
CS/894.
coplen uf such a translatlon. It ls assumed trat the
hav, se, artment would de interested in recoiving a nuuber
of coples ana it pears certain thut the information
silcited Dy auch translath. n would be or grost value to
the ar ve artment ltaelf. any dietribution boyond
.00
State,

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.86)
State, Yar and Mavy Departmente ahould, however, be
eleared through the Departmeas of Staté.
It may be adéed that the comments soneeraing
ausn as athletes and astors, nesd not be sranslased.
Encloaure:
As stated.
FC: RDLongyear: AP
A true copy of
the signed orig-
ac
2o4

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Division of Economie Security Control
Political Biographic Section
May 13, 1945
To: FC - Mr. Vougyear
From: Hendrik van Oss
Subject: Translation of Japanese Who's Who
I am enclosing a copy of an "International Who's
Who" of Japanese liberals presented to this Division
by Mr. Dooman, FE. According to Mr. Dooman, the book
contains in large part biographic information on Japanese
left wing individuals, although it includes as a cloak,
information on other prominent Japanese persons, Europeans
and Americans. Mr. Dooman feels that the book has impor-
tant possibilities and may present information on names
which will be very useful to this Government in its oper-
ations in Japan.. Mr. Dooman requests that a high security
classification be given to this work.
I should appreciate your presenting this to the
appropriate section of the War Department. If it is
possible for the translation to be done in the War
Department, it would be well to arrange for a specific
number of copies for the Department's use. Any distri-
bution outside the War Department or the Department of
State should be cleared through Mr. Dooman. The comments
concerning non-Japanese, or concerning non-political figures
(1.e., athletes, actors, etc.) need not be translated.
0

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.84)
DATE
to : me. hopsgear
nou: Hoano
SUBJECT :
thar A conlohn't
setthis
you.
oo.
to Cal puller
MAY1 4 1945

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.90)
C
P
Y
SECRET
June 0, 1940
A-D - Mr. Dooman:
Suuject: Return JI Japanese wno's who
Dear Gent:
I return nerewitn te Tamsus Jupanese
who's who concerne whicn tht War separt-
ment taxes Buch a uin vieh. You may c
interesteu in the most reccnt putliction
on Japanese ptrsonalitits or wilcn I unutr-
stanu misa Laaley in us nas a opy. It is
put out uy tnt Feucral Comnunications Com-
mission, Feutral Broaacastine Intelligtnce
service anu entitieu as followe:
Raulo Report on Far ast, No. 70
Special Report on Wno's w.o in
Jupan - uateu May 25, 1940.
I n lolu tt extra copies can ut
optaintu uy calling EXecutive oozu, extenslon
1z9, whicn is tht Urrice or the Cnitr of
the Far astern Divi sion or the Fce.
Rovert D. Lonejear
FU:ADL: A

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.92)
In reyly refer to
May 19, 1068
FC
MENONANDUN
CONCIDENTIAL
To: Lt. Colonel Edward H. Miller,
Liaison Ofrieer with the State Departmens,
Militury Intelllgence Division,
War Department.
Fron: Frederiox B. Lyon, Crulef, Division of Foreim
Aotivity Corrolation
SUdJEcT: kequest for who's who in Japan.
894.00/5-1945
It would be approciated ir inyulry oould be
made whelner the following desorived dooument is
avallable for diatrivution to the State Department
and ir so, whether three coples could be supplled:
yho' who in Jauan nd Jauanes
Qoouvied Territoriea. Propared by the
Intelligence Division of the Far Eastern
cureau, Britlsh Ministry of Information,
New Delhi.
Part A Jakan. Sourtn ditlon January .
2848.
It ls underatood that this is a Joint Intelligense
Agenoy CBI dooument (Conridential) probably avallable
through the JIcA panel. Further identirying partioulars
are an apparent JIca number, Ollz37b, and a notation
CS/LF
that the dooument was apparently reeeived in Shipment No.
220 w1th a SN des1gnat1on, H-392-D-46.
The foregoing information hae been provided by
Miss Hadley or the Commoaities Division who reyuests
a ccpy for the use or that Divislon in oonneetion with
its ourrent studies on Japanese industry. The additional
894.00/5-1945
DOR-
copies
1.

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.88)
eeples are desired for the files ef (1) the Divislen
of Leonomie Besurity Controls and (z) the Mivisiem of
Foreign Aetivity Correlation.
If later seotions of this work beyond Pars A,
referred to above, have become available, a similar
number of coples or eash would be useful to the Depart-
ment or State.
Fe:ADLongyear:nP
06
t
nay

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENT
Offine of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRR
WAR DEPARTMENT
I1IN 21 1945
DEPARTMENT GENERAL STAFF
!
IGENCE DIVISION G-2
Department of State
WASHINGTON
28 May 1945
ME.ORANDUM FOR FRRICK . LYON, ESQ., CHIEF, DIVISION OF
FOREIGN ACTIVITY CORRELATION, LEPARTMLNT OF STATE.
SUBJECT: REQULST FUR LO'S WHO IN JAPAN
Referring to your memorandum of 19 May 1945, in-
quiry ras disclosed tnat ure document requested is not avail-
able in Wasnington, either tnrough the War Department or the
Britisn Military Mission. It nas been suggested that the most
894.00/5-2845
expeditious way for you to obtain this document would be
through te American Deiplomatic iission in New Delhi from JICA
there. Our information is tnat this document was apparently
only distributed in tne rield.
E.lt. Chnele,
EDWARD n. MILLER
Lieutenant Colonel, GSC.,
Liaison Officer with the State Department.
3045
1.C0
CS/LF
894.00
FILED
FORVICTORY
/5-2845
BUY
WAR
BONDS
STAMPS

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.94)
RARE BOOKS
AUTOGRAPHS
Robert W. Lull
1 Chapel Street
TELEPHONE CONNECTION
NEWBURYPORT，MASS.
Hon. Joseph C. Grow.
June. 11. ,1945.
Washington. Dc.
My dear Sir-
Last week in buying a colleetion of autographs
I obtained a large eabinet photograph of Baron Tanetaro
Negata or Magata. March. 18. 192l. The photograph was taken 1n
'London.
Am wondering if the Baron is playing any part in the present
War?
From his photo, one would judge he was a keen, kind,
business man, not one that would eut your throat or mine.
Will appreciate andy data you may be able to give me about
the Baron.
Soter M. Gull
Sincerely,
8
Stamp enclosed.
/LE
UN191945
894.00
7~d
-1145
1n

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.94)
Fune18,19
In reply refer to
JA
My dear Nr. Lull:
Kr. Orew has referred to me your letter of
June ll regarding "Baron Tanetaro Negata or Magata",
TI
photograph of whom you reeently purchased.
I believe that the photograph is probably that
of Baron Tanetaro Megata. According to an artiele
in the New York Times of Sept mber 1l, l926, Baron
Megata died on September 10, 1926. I am enalosing
a transcription of blographicel data regarding the
Baron cntained 1n   1919.
there is a gap in the Department s colleotion of
these biographical volumes, I am unable to furnish
you with a sketch covering the last few yeare of
his life.
I hope that the information being furnished
you will be of some use and I am sure that you
will realize that the Department can assume no
responsibility for the accuracy of the biographical
data as 1t was compiled by another souree.
The stamp you enelosed with your letter is
returned herewith.
Sincerely yours,
ND
Erle R. Dickover
Chiof
Division of Japanese Affaire
Enclosureer
DOR - NE Unit
^nA'3
Biographical data,
m
Tanetaro Hegata.
2. Three cent stamp.
CR Mr. Robert W. Lull,
JUN 18.945
1 Chapel Street,
Newburyport, Massaohusetts.
JA: BRJbhansen: XNB
6/16/48

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.86)
xu frm   in dapan, L01
(unorrioial)
Megata, Tanetare. Baron (or.1906); Hem.llouee Peers,
b.?0 Juiy 1853; let e. of Rosuke legate, a amural;
m. Itau, ndorted  ster  sount lateu. Fduc.: greduated
from the harvard Univ. atuuyi con m: ce. After his
return home servec u , reretary of the rinancial
err. d the State our  ir udit on, hevenue orrioer,
councilor of the tr,ir c or r the evenue pureau,
irector of t ri y reory aboretory; ent
to ure  vd merie  su erinten ent of government
tudente in, e mloyei by the Korean Govern
ment ne ite:inunel vi r,  li the noet till
cot. lo when t n pp-oreen greement wa
concludrd, nom stel mber f tie use of reere, 1904;
orer t ed Baron in  coitlor cf meritorious servioe
uring t ure nr r. ent to U.. as ir
Jommissioner of : inance  conomy in 1917. Has been
decorated with th n  er ot er't. hddreen: No. 27,
tara-mnchi, koiehikawa-ku, Tokyo.

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.86)
乙
No.
(AMERICAN EMBASSY, CHUNGKING, JUNE 28, 1945)
(FORWARDED TO DEPARTMENT WITHOUT COVERING DESPATO
wiliw. eA
EMBASSY OF THE
DIVISION OF FINANCIAL AFFA
second secretary on detair
CD
GTB
DEPARTH
1945
RESTRICTED
2-Ca,2-111/
.340
appli
subject:
by u uninese stuaent recently returuea rrom tnat
country.
1k
The honoraule
mujor general ratrica J. urley,
erican bassuuor
chunonino.
1：
1 nave the nonor to trunsit heruitn a memorandum containing
894.C0/€
inrormation was supplieu me uy a youne cninese wno states that
e lest autwn completed tree years of stuay there. while in
Jupall, ne says, ne stuuieu inuustrial encineering at a college
工業大
tne unancellor or nicn was a Dr. Yani(
fhe iniormunt nimselr lert Jupall in octover, 1944; in
345
regart to lore recent uevelopments there lie quotes fellow-stuuent
who lert u a tis  rin t vi on o ht talheu in hortn cnina.
in sly, it mi nt ue tateu tnt une inlormant resents a
picture or t ptople vhose uitt has veen lovcrtu to or uelow the
minin nccessaly to the maintenance of necl tn, vnose miudle-school
chu collec souuents have ccuseu tcir stuuics ua havt cone to
C
 ulmo.t completely veuh obilizeu ror var. he also reports raw
Lttcril hortt es some or vni cn--hotul uhose or coal tnd oil-
are cncltine a ptralyzin inrluence on the hation's economy.
Line a couple of recent inloaunts who nau cone nere rrom
mallentria, the prcsent iniormant voiceu uisappointment over what
394.00
Respectrully yours,
. u
111
1045
Edward E. Rice
hiclo sure:
0 01Je13.1945
award E. Rice
Secona Secretary of abassy

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.98)
Second Secretary on detall at
sian, Shensi,
June 13, 1945
MIMORANDUM
RESTRICTED
by a uhinese student recently returned 
wuntry.
Bationing: When tue informant left Japan, in October, 1944,
foodstuffs were scarce and were subject to strict rationing. vivil-
ians were dividea into turee categories for purposes of rationing.
The basic rice ration was 273 grammes per person; a manual laborer,
nowever, received 50x more than this basic ration. In the oourse
of a month the average personm al so got a few ounces of meat and
rish and a limitea quantity of vegetaules.
Rationing of clotning, on a point basis, was also in offoot.
Until last year a man was ailowed lo0 points a year for clothing,
but last year this was cut to firty points for a man under rifty
years of age and to forty points for older men. in orter to en-
courage marriages, an additional loo points were allowed couples
getting married. The informant states that fifteen points were
needed in order to buy a snirt and sixty points for a suit of
clothes.
Diet ana rublic Health: Rice on the market is  unpolished,
has mixed with it 10% of corn (or, in winter, of potatoes) and
is not easily digested by the Japanese. such flour as is avail-
able is very dark. seafood is not plentiiul, and many persons
become ill as a result of eating spoiled fiah. Vegetables amil-
able on city markets are insufficient in quantity--thus one ououm-
ber might be the only vegetable a city family of three might get
for a three-day period. ▲ very little sugar was still available
--perhaps half a cup per person each month.
As a result of inadequate diet, night blindness had become
common. The Chinese students in Japan found the amount of food
allowed insufficient for thenselves and surdoed that the health
of the Japanese must be sufferring.
Raw Material Shortages: When the informant left Japan, raw
material shortages were numerous. The materials which were short
included leather, cotton, wool, salt, matohes, soap, paper, motals,
rubber, oil and coal. as a result of the leather ahortage, no
leather shoes had been available to civilians for several years;
small pieces of leather could still be purchased for reinforcing
the bottoms of shoes or for stitching together to make belts.
No cotton goods (excepting cotton substitutes) and but a few poor
woolens were on the market. wetals have disappeared from the
Japanese soene with a ocompleteness which is probably almost un-
rivalled: metal objects have disappeared from shops, have beon
surrendered by households, and have been removed wherever found-
clothing hooks and hatracks from trains, the meohanims of barber
chairs, metal bells everywhere and tne metal of doors and windows.
The rubber x shortage is interesting; at rirst the Jap-
anese believed that they woula have more rubber than they ocould
use as such and they accordingly converted some of it into liquid
fuels and then later tney found they could not transport it from
malaya in the expected quantities and they began to make artirioial
rubber. Frobably the most serious shortages are thess of eil end

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
coal. Thus the shortage of fuel oil prevents the full use of
fishing boats whioh might bring in much needed foodstuffs. In
order to save gasoline all civilian motor vehiales have seam
converted to the much less efrici ent burning of charooal; due
to lack of adequate transport some fruits have rotted in the
countryside. The shortage of coal limits the amount of aleetrie
power whioh can be generated therefrom, and this is partioularly
serious in the dry season, when less waterpower is available.
(The informant had not heard reports, very prevalent in uhina,
of the Japanese storing coal under water along the Japanese .)
The coal shortage has al so led to a shortage of produots requiring
substantial amounts of coal in their manufacture--suoh as glass
and chinaware. Thus some shortages lead to other shortages, exert-
ing a paralyzing influence on the nations life.
Taxation and sale of National Loan Certificates: Tne infor-
mant Is not able to present any but an incomplete picture of Jap-
anese taxation. ne says, however, that taxation of various mrts
there is high. Thus cigarettes which formerly sold for ten 
a package now cost sixty sen, the added fifty sen representing
added taxation. There is an entertainment tax of lo0% on theater
tickets and similar items and a 200% tax is levied on luxury
itms.
A substantial proportion of salaries is deducted for the
compulsory purchase of national loan certificates--bonds due
perhaps three years after the date of issue. The informant says
the family in the home of whicn he roomed had a monthly inoome of
a little less than 2oo yen from which sixty yen were deduoted
each month for such purposes. The certificates are on sale every-
where--in stores, in railway stations, etc.
(It was stated by the informant that when he left Japan
late last year the price level was avout 80% above that of
September 18, 193l--most of the rise having occurred since
rearl Harbor.)
Some Apparent ffects of the war on the Life of civilians:
The effect of abortageaar foodstuffs has been noted above. The
war, as al so noted el sewhere in this report, has also resulted
in the closing of sonools above the primary grade. (The infor-
mant, incidentally, describes Japanese s tudents as generally
reluctant to enter the armed services.) Klevators, because of
a power ahortage, have stopped running. pecause of this and
in view of a scarcity of consumer goods, department stores have
moved romaining goods to the lower floors and have closed ofr
the upper floors. rewer newspapers with fewer and maller edi-
tions are being published(because of a shortage of paper).
There also is less light to read by, electric current being
rationed; accordingly most people, having nothing better to do,
go to bed early. Travel is restricted: when one wishes to make
a trip he must apply to the police station in his precinct for
a permit to buy a railway ticket.
mployees in factories now are largely women. some women having
spuses xxx or fiancees in the armed forces, the informant alleges,
are having illicit relations with men remaining behind. Several
years ago, he says, a law was passed--in an attempt to keep up
the birth-rate, perhaps--attempting to place illegitimate child ren
on a basis of legal equality with other children (an illegitimate
child now mk may take its mother's surname and may inherit prop-
erty from her).
People in the cities were, when the informant left Japan,
worried about air-raids. rire-lanes had been construoted and
many slit-trenohes (but few air-raid shelters) had been dug.

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
The military appear still to be optimistic about the mr but
some civilians (and especially the members of the wealthier mer-
chant class) have become pessimistic and some or them expeet a
large-soale invasion of the main ialands. (Two Kuomintang under-
ground workers from north uhina say the Japanese there are eem-
paring the present with the period of uhina's Yuan dynasty whe
the Japanese faced the threat of a mongol invasion, that loeal
officials in that country now command militia units made up of
local residents not in the regular forces and that the Japanese
are talking of village-to-village resistance in case of invadon.
One of these informants says he not long ago read an artiole by a
Japanese newspaperman named 川 wno wrote mtrdgxkis advising the
people to build airplanes and yet more airplanes and deseribing
Japanese solaiers he nad witnessed in the rhilippine lalands as
each night looking in vain for the arrival of warplanes from the
homeland.)
Destruction of mulberry Groves: Almost all mulberry groves
in Japan have been out down in order to provide additional land
for growing rice and other foodstuffs. (Silk could still oe
purchased when the informant left Japan, so the Japanese assumably
have adequate supplies of tuis material for military uses.)
Treatment of seriously wounded soldiers: I have heard perais-
tent reports that Japanese soldiers in china commondly are killed
by their officers or medical men if they are so serioualy wounded
that it appears they would not oe able to recover surriciently to
again become military efrectives. 1 therefore asked the informant
whetner ue had seen any crippled soluiers in Japan. ne ssid he
nad soen an exhivition or about loo who had lost legs and haa
been provided witn metal limbs. when he saw them they were all
bicycling through the streets together, aemonstrating to the publio
the emtent to which they were able to function like other per sons.
ne al so occasionally saw soluiers, who haa lost an arm or a leg in
puvlic--but he says he understands they are enployed in factories
and do not generally appear on the streets. Those he saw were
still in uniform and wore armbanas witn red crosses on them.
mployment of rrisoner-or-war Labor: The informant says he
saw a foreign prisoner wiom he took to be an american soldier
working as a baggage coolie at the rokyo central station. ne
knew the prisoner to ve englisu-speaking vecause ne near him
saying, "Excuse me" wnile passing taroueh tne crowds. A Japnese
enuarme at the station vas seeping watcn on ihe prisoner.
Accoraing to press reports, wilitary prisoners were being
useu as farn laborers in lne Japanese countrysiue.
war and ducntion in Japan: mhen the inrormant lert Japan
almost everyvody vetween the ages o1 lo anu 40, except for sone
students, was in military service. 1n Octover, 1944 all study
or law, political science, economics anu similar studies (斗, or
the numanities) ended, the stuuents entcrine tne armed Iorces.
The tnree-year science course at the universitiesx was, at that
time, telescoped into a one-year course. Tne informant states
that according to Japanese press reports which ne saw in April,
1945, all except the eight-year primary course has now been sus-
pended there ana the other schools navebeen completely closea
chinese Students in Japan: Last year alout 130 chinese
were studying in the school whicn the informant a ttended; the
total student boay of this school was about 1,Ooo. chinese then
studying at Tokyo Imperial University mm numbered only twnty-
odd and were mostly the chilaren of important puppet official s.
Tokyo Imperial University, ne says, did not welcome chinese stu-
dents. In thie ane in other tnings uhinese students wer made to
Seei

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
that they were distrusted and aiscriminat ea against. (This of
course seens natural to a westerner, but the informant semed
to resent the fact ratner than to feel such treatment to be
natural.) He quotes fellow-students who left Japan this spring
as saying Chinese felt particularly ill-at-ease during air-raid
alerts, when they were often followed by the seoret polioe and
fearea that they might be assassinatea. Un the ferry trip from
Japan to Korea, on nis way home, the informant (as a non-Japmese)
had to sit in a special section() reserved for persons like
himself and for Japanese traveling in custody of the authorities
(assumably criminals).
Return Trip from Javan: The informant went from Shimomsei
to rusan in a passenger ferry named the , which he mays
is a vessel of apout 3,000 tons capable of carrying about 2,000
passengers. curtains were drawn and passengers were forbidden
to look out during periods each of apout an hour at the commene
ment and again at the conclusion of the voyage. The informant
says ne noted esoorting vessels and an air patrol plane during
the trip. The vessel took a zig-zag course, so that the trip
took ten hours, as compared to the former time of eight hours.
All passengers haa to wear life-preservers and during the trip
a boat-drill was held; some of the passengers thought the ship
was under attack ana grew panicky--tne informant neard that sev-
eral amall children were crushed to death as a result, but ho
did not nimself  see them.
From rusan the infomant took a train, via mukden, to ring
at which city he arrived ninety-six hours after leaving Japan.
Information in regard to Railways on the Continent: When
the informant travel ed over that line last autumn the rusan-
Lukden line was being double-tracked and necessary new bridge
installations were in the process of peing made.
In north China the informant heard that locomotive ropair
shops there were busy day ana night but still were behind with
their work on locomotives which had been damaged in air attacks.
On a trip he maue from Peking to Taiyuan, beginning April 19, he
had often to descend from the train, the locomotive spendingmuah
time in tunnels because or air alarms.
GR
B. E. R.

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.97)
80
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JAPANESE
JUL 201945
July 24,
U - Mr. Grew
JAPAN
Politioal Association to Hear Report on Emperor's
Health and on Foreign Affairs. A Tokyo broadoast of
July 24 in Japanese to Greater East Asia reports that
"in order to set the present mental attitude of the
894.00/7-2445
government and the people for a decisive war" the Great
Japan Political Association will meet tomorrow morning
at the Diet Building in Tokyo.
Scheduled on the agenda will be "a talk on the latest
state of His Majesty's health" by Dr. Shimomura, President
of the Board of Information, and a report "on the details
of the international situation" with an explanation of
the "government's foreign policy" by Foreign Minister Togo.
Comment: While this will probably be a meeting to
bolster morale against possible serious developments at
the Potsdam conference, with advance notice of the im-
portant topics on the agenda given to draw popular atten-
tion, another possibility seems worth bearing in mind.
Shouid the Japanese be preparing to surrender, the frail
state (whether real or feigned) of the emperor's health
would be about the only excuse which could be advanoed to
end resistance with convincing "saving of face".
C
S
As regards the emperor's health, one confidential
/LE
report early in 1945 stated that the emperor was on the
verge of a nervous breakdown and there have been recent
m
wholly unsubstantiated rumors from Europe allegedly based
on information from Tokyo that an attack had been made on
his life. On the other hand, Radio Tokyo has reported
that within the last ten days he has held six audienoes
hl
with Premier Suzuk1, Foreign Minister Togo and Munitions
Minister Toyoda.
0
2
445
JA: HKullgren:MP

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.97)
In pegty reßer to Iatiagla
and No.
NAVY DEPARTMENT
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
Serial 01541516
CONFIDENTIAL
045
FE
MEMORANDUM for Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
Attention:
Mr. J. K. Emmerson
Emmekson
Office of Far Eastern Affairs
Subject:
AKAVATSU, Saburo, et al -- Request for
information re
In compliance with your request for infor-
mation on Japanese individuals listed in your letter of
23 July 1945, the enclosed summaries are forwarded herewith.
Waae S. What
894.
Wellace S. Wharton
Captain, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
—44
Attention: Mr. J. K. Emmerson
Office of Far Eastern Affairs
Department of State
Washington, D.C.
Enc. (HW)
(1) Summary of infermation on Saburo AKAMATSU
(2) Summary of information on Toru MATSUMOTO
(3) Summary of information on Hachiro YUASA
(4) Summary of information on Kakutaro INOUYE
(5) Summary of information on Eitaro ISHIGAKI
(6) Summary of information on Haru MATSUI
(7) Summary of information on Ryoichi FUJII
(8) Tai ji HASECAWA - No Record.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.76)
CONFIDENTIAL
t 
reet
stominoshinJapan
tats asrmanent resident
iIn
wetounnv rsity from wich he rad
tenlemoryniversity,
w where he attended
eretyIn
rofrieof
n
ular rember of that
 not reconcile this
he,becare pastor of
Ids
orthe JaSE
,lonate1  347 ladison
necutiveBoard of
ti
sociationthe
1ined in 19u since
Leader
wrk
he Pnied
rioueian relations.
w
:
deredaroied
CONFIDENTIAL
1、

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.80)
CONFIDENTIAL
Yr
m1913
inar in New York
1 anin 2010,the
menls
an
isreporteto
and
nr
bjeet was ordained
sic/
chooeo's brother, first
nnid so that he made at least
inshi vas married to a
tolive
ofthem
For the 
 tember 11, Psuyoshi
ereriniy ehool at
sinehis
lence in
nin
CONFIDENTL.
L

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.81)
CONFIDENTIAL
nivrsi
in entomolory
clet a yeur
intoa news
shice miversity
isgreement
nite: tates in 1039.
sarist
 capan se reloca-
Imeetines. As of
T
( )

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.82)
NFIDENTIAL
we wt Pr reet
okkaido,Japan.
IYase ds Eniversity
edelberg
,itrlat various times
：10
m1to10and
vect lirst entered the
 w in etoher 1h0.
arently
nin the SAN
EE
ally started
isens  Japanese ances-
and whose alleged
ween apanese residents
sai and cultural
1
nenies at
i ier
tan s studies in June
1...
NFIDENTIAL
.14

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.81)
CONFIDENTIAL
r
1 . et
work
a en ristration
n
ivethenited
SLt
.as
: om ni:t sympathizers.
CONPLDENTLAL
5

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.92)
CONFIDENTIAL
IlI ah1, bitaro, Mrs. (ayako)
(also known as Haru larsuI)
219west 1th Street
New York, New York
Ayako ISl.kI, nee aka, professionally known as Haru MAtsuI, was
porn on 21 eptemper 1903 in Tokyo, Japan. Jhe was admitted to the United
States at an Francisco on 4 september 1926, as a servant of one T. SAto,
Japunese mbassy, washinton, .., for a period of three years. However,
subject abandoned tnis employment in December 1926.
rs. Ishlh hus stuliet at eorge Washington University, Washington,
J.. and olunbia niversity, New York City. Since 1917, she has been em-
ployed as a writer and lecturer, eni is the author of RESTLESs WAVE, re-
portedly an autobiopra, ly.
Subject is reporte: to nave narried Eitaro TSHIuArI in December 1929.
She reportedly claims to be opposed to the military regime in Japan, and
to nave lectured on behalf of hina and l'nited hina Pelief. Some evidence
exists that subject in! her nushan', within the past ten years, have been
associated with x rsens and roups of communistic afriliations, principally
the JAPANEs-T   ITrEE  EaCY. This is a left-wing organi-
sati n formally startei in l ho, with membership offered to "all loyal
citisens of Japanese ancestry an? Japanere residents loyal to the United
tates" and wmose alleged pur ose is "to establish better understanding
etween Japanese msidents and the Arierican publie and to promote the
"conomic, soc: 1 n' pltimal status of the Japanese community."
phe father t subject. saniro k, is reported to be a retired
protossor; her otner, Mas mi lA, an oricial of a Japanese Govern-
ment tobacce monc oly. She also is said to have two sisters, two aunts,
and several cousins r silin: in Jap
CONFIDENTIAL
É, 110)

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.92)
CONFIDENTIAL
FUJII, yoichi
Fomerly 577 South central venue
Los angeles, Jalifomia
Subject was boin on 15 kay lo in ishijin, Kyoto, Japan. He attend-
ed arade and middle schools in yoto Pron 1912 unti1 1922 and Oberlin Uni-
versity in Ohio from 1)?9 until 1?3. 1t nol is a on. and M.A. degrees in
Phi losoohy and eli pton. coordin: to ubject's statenent, he entered
the Unite tates in 1,3, speak, mdr an writes Japanese and English,
and reads ueman.
CONFIDENTIAL
11

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.92)
CONFIDENTIAL
HASEGAWA, Taiji
No record.
CONFIDENTIAL
E)

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.90)
Sept.
AMDBABBY
MOSOOW (RUSSIA).
Reference Eabassy's telegram no. 3127, August 
1948.
The Department would appreciate receiving by air
mail a translation of the complete text of Sekelov's
artiole entitled QuotE Ruling Classes er Japan UNQUOTE
printed in August 30, Red Fleet.
Arheon (sme)
oting
Acheson
BEY

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.92)
PROTS Ar
M
DATAugust 
61945
DEGRATCINED:
81
DEPARTMENT OF STH
SEP171945
BRORETARY OF STATH
OFFICE
OPI
WASHDDTON.
PL
INI
A
A-666, August 31, 1945.
SPA
L'JiITA (Couaunist) of August 29 features e long
SA
3Δ/G
article on the purt played by the "Japenese Co munist
SA/II
Party in the struggle for demooracy" inside Japan. The
UR-x
article 1s in the form of a speoial despatch to the paper
and aerries a Ton-an (China) dateline. It reports that
during the 7th Congress of the Chinese Cormunist Party
hold in Ven-an during Pay of this year one of the most
sensational events wss the arrival of a rdnresentetive of
the Japanene Covmunist Perty, Susumu Okapo, fron Japan
ituelr. Tme main part of the artiele reviews Okano's re-
port of the Japonese Coriunist Purty nctivities. One of
the most marvolou: revelations, sienificantly coments the
peper, I: the fect that the Co wnnuist Party hue been able
to survive since 1928 in Jupin unuer Fasgist terroriam.
The Jtpanesa reprosentative cupposedly geve e long
report on the activities nd results achtoved by the Perty
thunks to tho sacrifioos meue by lir o nusbers of militent
denbers. He suid thet at the besinnine of the wer a very
large nwaber of persons ere arreuted by the police for
anti-Fa cist and anti-ifilitcristic activities or beccuse
they were carryin un ectivities cponsored by the Commun-
ist Party. During the last two years of war thero were
963 inoidents between industrici vorkors &nd the police,
un average of un inoident a dny, rn evorage, tho desvatch
points out, thet no enti-Foscist country can claim. From
1928 to 1983, the artiele cont1nue:, 40,000 Conmunints
were errested in Jopn by the I perial Police. ron l931
to 1952 P'arty Hond,uartere put in circulction about 100,000
peaphlets und poriod1cele. In 199 noro than 200, 000
periodicals ere on thc blaox list of the police.
which ho desoribes as sinoerely nnti-illitcristio and which
hag carried on underground activities since l938 una con-
tinues yet today, and the "Soclal Party of the Tasses"
SEP 23 1046
DCR EUR
AnHI
as

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.93)
which is feithrul to the idesle of demoorasy.
with these two parties the Japanese Comaunist Pery
to develop a polioy of netiodal unity in order So
démoernoy and destrey the Iapertalism end Militarksm 
the Japanese barons. Amonn ether things the Japamese
Cemunist Perty is for fresdom of the press, fresdom of
speeoh, etc.
Anot er vigmifioent topio disoussed by kano wes the
question of the Taperer. "Grantin; that the Tenno repre-
sents a tradition or despotiam and feudelian as well as
the militaristic cliques it must be renembered", he assert-
ed, "thut for the Japanese poople tho Kaperor is the
personification of God, the living incerustion or the most
profound reliious sentiment.*
"The Japanose Couusunists", continues Okano, "do not
want to retuin one of the factors most reaponaible for the
disaster of the war and for the reactionary polioy, but
if the mejority of the people ask that the Emperor at
least cs an institution be retained they propoae that
after the ver the problen be left to the deoimion of a
populer referendum." The ertiole concludes by esserting
that "the Conmunist Party will be the leaven of the now
Japanene democrnoy."
IRK
PT/mur/cl
Copy to nerionn Eibussy, Moscou

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.93)
INCOMING
TELEGRAM
TOE
INFO:
MLX-1985 -H
s
This telegrem mst be
U
parephrased before being
Dated August 31,:1965
EUR
conated te myese
FF
other than a Government
Reo"d 7:35 p.m.
DC/L-C
AgenOY. (RESTRICYED)
SWP-2
FC-14
OPI
Seoretary of State,
FFICE
PL
SFP
INI
Washington,
A-M
SPI.
IS
3127, August 31, 6 p.m.
SI.
SA/M-2
The clearest Soviet dissertation yet published
on Japanese political system appeared in artiele by
Sokolov entitled *Ruling Classes of Japan," printed in
August 30 RED FLEET. (To Department; repeated Chungking
STN
894.00/8-3145
Sokolov examines and condemns Japanese political
DIRPRYOR
Dapariment of State
structure piece by piece. Japanese constitution he firet
says 1s patterned on and even more reactionary than
obsolete Prussian constitution of l850. It is designed
to maintain interests of greater landlorde end capital-
ists. Parliament too reflects "interweaving of imperial-
mm
9-2-45
ism and feudal remnants." As for Privy Council it is
OWI (Dood)
composed of representatives of former feudal lords.
Two political parties said by Sokolov to be conneeted
with and subsidized by big business and hence
unrepresentative.
RESTRICTED
SEP131945
lée
FLE
8

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRIOTES
-2- #3127, August 31, 6 trem Mosoow via 
unrepresentative Appearamts of nom-party indiviqusily
government. Their influence "was and remains trememdous.
Sokolov concludes that Japanese ruling ciroles rep-
resent "bloc of great landlords, business concerms and
militarists.- all links of fascistised Japenese imperial-
ism" and that surface distinotions between groups will
not mislead an attentive observer.
Embassy feels that foregoing provides a working
outline of Soviet political allergies in Japan and that
it may prove useful in attempting to forecast Soviet
reactione on forthcoming civil administration of the
islands.
HARRIMAN
DM
RESTRICTED
y

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.93)
INCOMING
TELEGRAM
LOTION-LE
DISTRIBUTION
INFO:
PLAIN
HX-630 -C
Moscow viar
EUR-3
FE-3
DC/LC
Datod September
SWP-2
Rqod 11:40 a. m
FC-14
OPI
PL
IIII
Socretary of Stato,
L-M
Office of
SnA. ume
SPA
Washington.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIR?
IS
S.
D
SI/GN
3142, Third.
/R
Departmant of State
S1/1M-2
EUR-X
Pravda August 31 carrios taas degpatch Now York
summarizing articlc by Owon Lattimore on craftinoss
Jap policy. Lattimoro warns that Japs aro rosorting
to spocial manouvors to divido ranks Allios. According
Lattimoro Japs are ospocially trying to uso Emporor
as moans of upsotting unity. In addition Japs hopo to
uso othor woapons to drivo wodgo botwoon Ussn an: China.
Zume
4/4/45
Pointing out that Jap radio trios to roprosent Japan as
40
symbol of liboration Asia from imporialist domination
China, Lattimore statos that this clcarly boars witnoss
to ronowal of Jap cfforts to achiovo union botwcon Japan
and rightist olomonts China. Lattimoro quotod saying
that this maneuver pursuos aim of obstructing improvomont
Soviot
11945
ca
a
m

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.98)
-2..3142, Third, from Moseow
Soviet..Chinose rolations and show dosiro of Japan
2
to utilizo instructions which rocontly woro givon
Jap troops by Chungking, namely, to rotain arms for
maintonanco order which signifios that Chinoso pooplo
will romain holploss. So long as China, Russia, Amorica
and England do not implomont singlo policy Japs will
havo opportunity to display political initiativo.
Prosorvation Emporor holps Japan in this rospoct.
Sont Dopartmont 3142, Ropoatod Chungking 138..
MESSAGE UNSIGNED
RR

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.92)
FROM:
DATE:
CONFIDENTIAL
REC'D
NOTIC.IEE
The Secretary of State,
Jashington.
A-245, Septomber 22.
CI3
Rome's airgram No. A-666 August 31, 1945 was of grom
aex
interost to this Embassy as it contained information not
1-0
hitherto received from any other souroe.
A-7
CP:
By way of background wo would say that last yoar Okano
∵A
stated to Amerlcan observers at Yenan that becau it was
necessary realistically to reccgnize the attaohmont of the
DReX
Japanese masses to the Tmperor and the imititutfon of
Emperorahip, the Japanese Communist Farty althcigh it
opposed permanent retention of the Emperilr, did not demand
his i.mediate removal nor did it iutend in the mar future
to attack the instiuudon of the mperorship. His more
recent statement on the Imperor quoted bf L'UNIgA represents
F war
uherefore, a reiteration of a previously declared polioy.
It snoul, be observed, howaver, that although L'UNITA
article vas pi:lishcd after the Japanese oapitulation and
the American cccision to retain the mperor, Okano's
9-2245
statement quotad therein was made last May.
It is si ificant in this cciection that the Soviet
YR
press has ade no statement which might be interpreted a
supporting the retention of the present Emperor or the
Institution or Emperorship. To tho contrary, tho Soviot
press has by infeience criticizeu the American actlon in
retaining the mperor. It seens to us unlikely that Soviet
761.94
foroign pollcy would awing over to support of the Tmperor
so long as morican polioy in apan continues along its
present liims.
The Japanese Communist Par ty would therefore seem to
be confronted on the issue of the imperor with a dilemma so
familiar to Communist Parties outsido of the UsSh - a conflict
between the delands of Soviet foreign polioy and the
necessitiss of a realistic national polioy.
Future statements by Okano and the Soviet press may
iva l to how this dilc.me will be resolved.
0
OCT 16 1948
FILEO
JD/aiw
KENNAN

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.87)
DOL
FICE OF
AIRCRA
Mosoow
Date:
Septamber 24,1
Xeo'd:
uc ,8 p.
UNR STIJ UT D
AOTIU..:
INNTO:
eoretary of tate,
8
Husi jton.
iSC
FJ7-3
A-247, pteb(r 24, 1945.
12-3
T...LA
Sry ?ollove major rti al, atitled "Japanese Count ry-
JOP
ciie" publlch:d hed stur eptembe: 22:
CF
8
ILH
Ides of atural shortare of Jind in Japan was intensivel
prepecatee, Japm e imperialist: in course of preperation 
D0-14
Ior ressi. "Cot inent ol cy" was Jaiane se version of
CIC
Gerr "Iran nuch ( ten" pe icy. Poverty-strioken Jap peasa
II
OFI
this bas: !lions f Ja unes: re indoctrinated with spiri
PL
orttoryilitarsu.
A-8
1.-
Fact,  vever, aru 13 1o1lo. u. Between 1922 and 1940
!:
there was no o rea in uouni o: ailti vat ed land in Japan.
SA
lo ver, this cansicl be ex lat a by natural causes since not
810
 ltIvution. xiste ce of sev ral nillions of heotares of
urrked cult latubi lun: reveat falsi ty of Jupanese propa-
suncu ca cer. " ual  rtuge of land". Fact that huge
are ie in: Japar. ar. nt c 'vivai sd fs explained by further fact
that aricul: re!  rocucij on In Japen is extrewely backward in
tec'nical son: e. This in turn is to be explain ed not by goo-
rapliicel fuc'ors but by egrarian relations which exist in
Tapen. About 150,00 linc owners, 3.2 percent of total number.
pos. euu ovor / perent of ell sown reas, including best irri-
gated land s. Lan oners rent siei1 plots out to peasants.
ousents pay lund ovrer: on veree over half of their harvest
In rent. Port ion of oost of agrioiltural production taken away
in form of rert cces nct rcturn te usri cul ture. This s ohier
juuse of buck rdnes ofgrdcl produotion aid ektrely
ow level or ! rio liurel techii. Japanese peasant is jrot
only una ble t intror uce inpr ove eit s in agrioul tura teorni que
rut is hard put to f ad his ow fa ily. Hund reds orphouands
a Japenese pc sants ire forced io sell their own dant ers
und wives to texti le factories snd brothels inorder to make
nis meut. In thie I ishion Ju me se peasant rybeoos inex
haustible rese voir or chea labor paver for industrialiste.
Despe rate

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.94)
-2- A-247, September 24, 1945, from Mommow.
Desperate cndit ion of Japanese peasantry has ostans
discussed in Japanese press and gowe rnment o iroles.
neither Ja nnese Parliament, in vhioh land owmers d
peoulator play prominept role, nor Japmese fasoisi
militarists had desire or ability to bal p peasant. Mil
of peasant: we:it into aruy to seize foreign lands and
became co-partiotpents in bloody deeds of Japanese mdl
Only "serl ous lanc roform" can lead Japanese agrioulture
of  ind alley into which it has fallen as remlt or 
underwine irit or militarism and aggression in which Jp
people have bean trained durine pass 50 years and will belm
about real rather than formal enocratization of state li
in Janan.
2
KBNNAN
Cerbon ∞ps to  ori can Embsu, Chungking.
RCT: ok

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.92)
In vaply vedée to Indsdale
 Na.
NAVY DEPARTMENT
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS
WASHINGTON, 25, D.C.
28 September 1945
OF
1 Ei ORANDUM for Ar. Frederick . Lyon
T-1945
894.00/9-2845
subject:
Japenese Liberetion League
The enclosed remor ndu is forwarded for
your information end retention.
Walencr 8. Whate
Hallace S. Wharton
Captain,.N.R.
:1
r. Frederich. B. Lyon
Rob
Chief, Division of Forein Activity Correlation
Department of State
OCT2-1945
1.0om 114
Washington, D.C.
894.
Enc. (Hi)
(1)
Dl0 14ND conf. 1tr. to Activities Listed, seme
OCT101945
subject, deted 11 September 1945.
00
9-2845
FBI, IS cognizant.
CONFIDENTIAL
DIN1

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.95)
FOURTEENTH NAVAL DISTRICT
.District Intelligence Office
Sixth Floor, Young Hotel
onolulu, Hawaii
141D/A8-5
HM/y
CONFIDENTIAL
11 Septomber 1945
From
District Intelli ence Officor, J4ND
To:
Activitics Listuc.
Jubj. Japanege Liboration Leuguo
Eno1: (A)
Draft outli:os covering genoral principles of subject or-
ganization.
(B)
Draft of by Laws of subjoct oranization
1. Enclosures ero forvtrded bocaus) of thoir intelligence interest.
Jut jact organizetion io: headguartors at Yonan, Chinese Communist
capitol, and is founuod upon Communist princi ples. Its loader 1s
Sucumu CKAlio, who was fcrmerly connccted with the Çomintorn.
H-SRu
II. S. BURR
Acting
ONI (4)
G2(CTD)HOn (1)
AAFPao (Counter-Intoiligonco) APO 50O (4)
JICPOA (1)
IMidpao Military Govst. Lec, G-1
(Attn: Col. Duff) (1)
Commandor, Philippine Sea Frontier (2)
ComNavGroupChina (2)
Enclosure (1)

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.95)
From:
Japaneso Lmueration Lenguo
February, 1944.
DRA T OUTI ILS COVERING GENERAL PRINCIPLS
OF LL JAPANEE LIBERATION LEAGUE
(NIPPON JDMIN KAIHO RENMEI KORYO SOAN)
(Corclusion of War und Peace)
1 - Cor miliuary md mmunition capttalists have derived enormous
xelits fre i I cauria ihcident, China Incidont, and
It Eas tar. ie, but our pooplo as well as the other
Lastern reces ve vad to undergo innumerable sacrifices.
And the longer this war i3 protracted, the larger our
difriculties end ruptures will be.
Therofore we anticipate that:
(a)
Inmodia su ccssutici o.. war.
(b))
The withdrasal of Japanese troops and warships
from all occupied sorritories.
(c)
A conclusion cf a ust peaco with warring nations,
tlus bringinl aboul the revival of a secure life
for our people as oon as possible.
(Everlas ving Peace)
II - During the last fifty yerrs, the wars in East Auia have
for the most part, been caused by our country's military
and its confederstes.
Therefcre wo anticipute that:
Those responsible for the Lanchuria incident,
Chinese Inc cent, and Far Eastorn War, be strictly
dealt with.
(b) Sweep away military influence fron wi thin she
covernment of our country.
(c)
The de fonse of our home-land be set as the maximum
Iimit: amerunts e reduced to confomm to this limit,
abolish conscripsion and enlistment system to bo
adopted,
(a)
Carry out a consistent foreign policy as rogards
peace measures.
- 1 -

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.96)
(e) Participato in post wur international peace and
peace structures (new loague of nations) and tius
provent the recurronce of war. Establish friondly
rolat:cns with othor races on the basis of peace,
indopendence, oquclity and live and let live.
Iit - nonic Pluns Por rosperity)
, ccunury s axtr rcly we kened by the long, large-soale
.rfare.
terefore:
(a) Reduce military expenses to the minimun, and
apply the major port on of our national incomo
to the revival und d volopmont of economy and the
raising of the standrd of living for the peoplo.
())
Continue and sireng hen national control over
bunks and t er entrprises (monopolies).
(0)
Develop our mwchiner, and precision industry to a
high degree or. the be is of our presont heavy industries.
Mechanize agriculture,
(d)
Establish land regula ions ao as to cnable the best
profitable use of lanis to bring about prospority
to the country.
(e)
Promose forein trade on the principles of "minister
to each other's wants."
Thus plan for the Independence and prosperity of our country
und anticipate tho carrying out of an economic policy which
will further the prosperity of our people.
IV - (Overthrow of Military Dictatorship)
From the Meiji Restorution up to today, the military and
its confederatos have carr ed cn unlimived dictatorship
und abuses in our country.
Therofore:
(a) Strip the military of alj its special rights.
(Direct appeals to the Lmperor, miitary ministers,
Regulations covering service men.)
(b) Prohibit the iiterforence of the military as regards
government eccuomy, oduc:tion and culture.
Furthermore,
- 2 -

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.97)
(c) Dissolvo all organizations under the loadership
of the military. (Taisei Yokusan Kai, Yokusan
Seiji Kai, Yolkusan Sonen Dan, various "patriotic
organizations", etc.
We theroby anticipato tho clarification of the govornment
of our country.
V - (Free end Democratic Government)
The rights and frocdom of cur country have becn completoly
transgrossed on by the military.
H refcre, we anticipe to:
(a) The abolishmenf of all evil laws such as national
mobilization laws, requisition orders, special war-
time criminal code, peace maintenance laws, etc.
(b)
Relcase polltical criminals who were arrested on the
charges of opposing the injustice of society or who
opposed the military and war.
(c)
Abolish limit tions pertaining to occupation, residence
and mevemento,
(12)
Realize comp lote froedom of speoch, publications,
assembly, ca.tract, and religion.
(e) Grant voting rights to men and women over twenty
years old.
(f) Firmly esteblish democratic system of government, and
(ε)
Convoke naional assembly for tho purpose of revising
the consti;ition.
Thus we anticipate uhe construction of a new Japan based on
freedon and democucy.
VI - (Improving Living Jonditions of the People)
Tho military calls our country a "first rate power" from
the point of armed might, but our poople (homeland and
territorial resicnts) bave been living e life below that of
a "third rat. po ur." Furthermore, the protracted warfare
has thrust the puoplo into a condition of extreme hardshipa.
Trerefore, wo anicipate:
(a) Lower the price o" daily cormodities; lighten taxes
for the wcrkors; ubolish illegal various obligations

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.98)
(compulsory savings, donations, material con-
tributions, and labor sorvice.)
(b)
Abolish the regulution controlling wages for workors
and wage-earners; ostablish a just wago system;
shorten working hours; revive and improve factory
laws, and rovive workors' unions.
(0)
Abolish the system of compulayry buying up of farm
products from farmers and作 附制限命 /control of
products rogulation/. Set a just rental on land and
prohibit the deprivation of lands. Supply cheap and
abundent fortilizera. Rovivo farm unions.
(d)
Guarantee he freedom of scientific rosearch; abolish
students' labor service and military training; revive
progressivs students' sccietias.
c) Devise offectual methods for the rovival and relief
of middle and snell industrialists.
Besides this, we anticipate the raising of standards of
living as well as cultural levels for our countrymen
through all othor possiblo means.
(Guarantee of Socurity for Families of
Seilors and Soldiers)
VII - The most miserable life is that of a discharged soldier
or a soldier called for /to/ duty. And thore is no othor
army in the world who disrogards human rights as does our
army.
Thereforo wo:
(a) Guarantee the security of the scldier's family
as well as the surviving family.
(b)
Raise thc salury of soldiers and suilors;
strictly prohibit illtreatment and "binta"
(slapping facos); Erant frecdom of caves,
correspondenoe, reading and assemblios.
Grant them voting rights; give them immediate
dischurge upon fulfilment of their time; and
prohibit rs-rocruiting.
Thus wo anticipato that an improvement of conditions bo
effected and thet security of living bo given to the
viotims of war.

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.95)
(Organization of Peoples' Govornment)
VIII - The above items constitute the hcart-folt requests of
all our peoplo in all olasses. But the prosent military
and large cupitalists aro doing their utmost to suppress
and obstruct the realization of these items.
Thore ore, wo anticipete the overthrow of this wartime
Covernment, And wo also anticipate the organization of
a peoplcs' government nade up of foderations, various
branches and various progressive parties, ali reprosenting
the peoplos' will and well being, thereby tringing about
the attainnent of the common aim for all people.
• End -
一5

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.97)
DRAFT OF THE BY-LAWS OF THE JA PAN FSE LIBERAT ION LEAGUE
AVippon Jirmin Kaihō Remmei/
Article I (Title). This League shall be called the Japanese
Liberation Leaguo.
Articlo II (Purpose). The purpose of this Ieague is to carry
out tie principle s of the League.
Article III (Terms of membership). Any individual or
orgunization approving the spirit of the principles of this
Loap can becomo a member.
irticle Iv (ligiest Orcan). The highest organ of this
Leaguc shall be the Ropresertatives' General Mcoting /Daihyösha
Sökai/ which shall be held annually. However, an cmergenoy
meeting may be held, if doemed necessary by the Central Committee
or if requested by a majority of the League members.
The Genoral Meeting shall be composed of representatives
elected from the Regional Councils and affiliated organizations.
The ethod of eloction and ratio of representation shall be
dotomined by the Central Committee.
in case it is impossible for the reprcsentatives to assemble
and lold the General Meeting, the combined resolutions of each
Regional Council and affiliated organizction may bo usod to take
the plece of the Gonera1 Heeting.
icle V (Central Executive Organ). The Contral Committee
sha i be selected at the General Meeting.
he Central Committce shall direct th activities of the
Leugl, until the next session of the General Meeting and shall
rep ent the Loague.
The Central Committee slall elect the chairman, the vice-
chal muin and the standing committee from within its own members.
ho Standing Committee shall carry out the daily activities
of the League and may establish committoes for various projects
depening on the necessity.
Article VI (Lower Organizations). The structure of the
lower organizaticns of this League shall differ according to
individual membership or group membership and to the legal or
illegl status /of the party/.
-1-

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.97)
The organizational structure for individual memborship and
group mombership is as follows:
Central Committoe of tho League
Organizations
(Example: North China
Regional Council
Regional Council)
chihō Krōgi kai
# (Example: Shansi
Dis trict Committee
District Committoe)
Chiku Iin Kai
(Example: Taikang
Shibu Branch
Branch)
# Hote: A District Council is organized when there are two or
norc Brnches. When only one Branch exists in a district, it
shall be attached directly to the Regional Council.
Tihe abovo is primarily the organizational principlo for rogions
where cctivities can be carried on legally, but in a region where
activities can crly be ce rried on illegally. this oan be changed
accor in to the situation in that region.
Article VII (Regional Counc1l /Chihō Kyōgi Ka1/). The Central
Commiitce shall determine the establishment of a Regional Council
in specific regions. In conformity with the policies of the
Contral Committee, the Regional Councils shali direct the activities
of the Leacue in tho areas within their jurisdiction. The manner
of ornni zation cf thc Regional Councils will be stipulater later.
A.ticle VIIl (Affiliated Organizations). In regard to the
activities of this Loague, thc Affiliated Organizations shall
follow the policies of the Central Committec, but the organization
and cctivities within the said organizations can be determined
indepondently in so far as they do not run counter to the spirit
of ti.is Ieague.
Article IX (Accounts). The expenditures of this League shall
be fir anced by dues and by donations. The amount of the dues shall
be stirulnted later.
Article X (Amendment of By-Iaws). These by-laws cannot be
amended without the approval of the General Meeting or of an
equivalent organ.
By-Laws of North China Regional Council of the
Japanese Liberation League
/Nippon Shimmin Kaihō Remmei Kahoku Chihō Kyōg1 Ka1/
Article I (Furpose and Duties). The purpose of this North
China Regional Council shall be to carry out the principles of
- 2-

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.98)
the Io gue (headquarters). As stipulated in Article vII of the
By-Laws of the League, this Council shall be composod of the
Branchcs of the League existing in North China, and its duties
hall be to direct the Regional activities in North China accord-
ing to the policies of the Central Committeo of the League.
Articlo II (Terms of liemborship). Any individual approving
the spirit of the principles of the Loaguo can bocome a momber
with the approval of tho Branch to which he belonga.
Article III (Location). The headquarters of this North
China Rogional Council shall be located in Yonan, Shensi Province.
Aruiole IV (Highest Organ). The highest organ of this
Norti China Rogioral Council shall be the North China Regional
Roprcsontatives' Conferonce /Chihō Daihyōsha Kaig1/ which shall
be held unnually. However, if deemed necessary by the North
China Regional Cormittee or the Central Committee of the League
or if vequestod by the majority of the Branch members, an
emergo cy Regional Representatives' Conference may be held.
o Regional Reprosentatives' Conference shall be composed
of r. esentatives elected at a convention of the vurious ranohes.
The othod of olection and ratio of representation hall be
determined by the North China Regional Committee.
In case it is impossible for the Branch Representatives to
asseble and hold a Regional Ropresentatives Confcrence, the com-
bined resolutions of all the Branch conventions may be used to
t: ke the place of the Rogionel Representatives' Conference.
Article V (Executive Organ). The North China Rogional
Representatives' Conferonce shail choose the Regional Committee,
viich shall direct all the activities of tho Rogional Council on
the busis of the policies of the Central Committee of the League
until the next session of the Rogional Representatives Counoil.
The Rogional Committee shall be composed of a chairman, a
vice-chairman and several committeomen, who shall be elected at
the Regional Representativcs' Conference. The Regional Committee
mey croate various types of committees as necessary.
Article VI (District Organization). The Regional Committee
slxall create a Dis trict Council /Chiku Kyagi Kai/ in specific
areas where two or more Branches exist. Acting on the basio
directives of the Central Corunittee of the League and the Regional
Conmittee, the District Council shall direct the activities of the
Brarchies in said area and slall possess independent executive rights
in regard to problems peculiar to the said area.
The highost organ of the District Council shall be the
District Representatives' Conforence /chiku Daihyōsha Kaigi/ which
- 3 -

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.99)
shall meet annually. Howover, an emergoncy District Representatives
Conference may be held if deomod necessary by the District Committee
/Chiku Iin Kui/ or some higher organ, or if requested by the
majority of the Branch membors.
The District Representetives' Conferenco shall be composed
of ropreuentutives elected from each Branoh.
The method of election and ratio of reprosentation shall be
deterr:ined by the District Committee.
The executive orcan of the District Council shall be the
Distr:ct Committee composed of a chaiman. a vice-chairman and
severel committeemen. These shall be elected by the District
Representatives' Conference, but must bo ratified by the Rogional
Committee.
Article vII (Lowest Organization). The lowest organization of
this Rogional Council shall be the Branches. With the approval
of tlio Regional Committee or the District Committee, a Branch may
be organized by three or more membors of the League, with a work-
shop, school, rosidontial area or military unit as the basis.
The highest organ of a Branch shall be the Branch Assembly
/Shibu Dai Kai/ which shall bo held annually. However, an emergency
Branch Assembly may be held if deemod necessary by the Branch
Cormittee or some higher organ, or if requested by a majority of
the Branch members.
The Branch Assembly shall be organized with the participation
of all the League members of the Branch.
The executive organ of the Branches shall be the Branch
Committee Shibu Iin Kai/ composed of one Branch Hoad and several
committeemen, who shall be olected by the Branah Assembly, but
who must be confirmed by the District Committee or the Regional
Committee. However, if a Branch has not more than five membors,
only the Branch lead shall be elooted.
Article VIII (Cells /Bun Kai/). In regard to a Branch with
fiftcen or more members, the Branch Committee may set up Cells.
depending on the necessity. The Cell shall have one secrotary.
who shali be appointed by the Branch Committee.
Article IX (Accounts). The expenditures of the Regional
Council shall be financed from the League dues contributed by
the Branchos and by donations. The arount of Jeague dues shall
be determined later.

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.92)
Aicle  (Puna ties). An individual violuting the apirit of
chis Rolonal Council sheil be punished according to the resolution
of tho Hranch Aasembly, even to the extent of expulsion. However,
the  o utior must be approved by tho District Cormitteo or the
Regicr Comonlttoe.
AFPENDIX
Aicle XI (Amendnent of By-Iawe). These by-laws cannot be
anenae ithout to appreval of the Regional Representatives
Confe  o or en cquivalunt organ.
icle XI Relatior Fhio with the Freparation Committee for
513
  tic o. she  ue /Re mei Soritsu Jumbi Iin Kai/).
Unti  io off cia. organization of the League (headquartors). the
I u menticned in those by-laws shall monn the said Preparation
ommi ce; the principles; the draft of the cenoral prinoiples;
the b Is, the daft of the by-laws and the Central Cofmittee,
the s l Prepapation Committoo.
 relttionship of cach unit of this League and the
crn  tional sys ton ore as follows:
Lea pre
General
Central
Chairman, vice-
Meeting
Committee
chairman and com-
Rocet Borbe
Da ihyōsha
Chūō Iin Kai
mitteemen.
sokai
Pogaenal
Rerional
Regional
Chairran, vice-
Couneil
Representatives
Committee
chairman and com-
Chi y
Conforence
Chihō Iin Kai
mitteemen.
Chihá Daihyōsna
Laici
District
District
District
Chaiman, vice-
Council
Representetives
Committee
chairman and com-
Chiku Kydei i
Conference
Chiku Iin Kai
mitteemen.
Chiku Dnihyōsha
Kaigi
Branch
Branch
Branch
Branch head and
Shibu
Cor.ference
Committee
committeemen.
Shibu Dai Kai
Shibu Iin Kai
Cell
Secrotary
Bun Kai
Shoki

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.93)
PARTMENT
INCOMING
DIVISIC
CENTRAL
STATE
TELEGRAM
TELEGRAPH
ACTION: JA
INFO:
S
ED1-1199-0
Paris
U
This tologram must bo
C
closoly paraphrasod bo-
Datod Soptomber 8
ESC
foro boing cormmunicatod
EUR
to anyono. (CONFIDENTILL)
Roc'd 8:38 p.m.
FE
DC/L
IR
FC
Socrotary of Stato
OIC
INI
Jashington
4.
1.-C
A-B
A-R
5760, Soptoibor 28, 11 a.m.
Sil.
IS
LIBRES of Scpt. 28 which is Cormunist influonood
SA
SA/M
carrios a curious articlo omanating fron tho nows agonoy
EUR/x
IFP which statos that according to "woll informod loftist
circlos" thoro aro 10,0oo Cormunists still rotainod in
下
prison in Japan anong whon aro tho loadors Mitarara and
894
C
Sano, it adds that tho "rod count" Pijukata, oscapod to
1932 and other loadors arc abroad. Consoquontly it
/9-2845
oxplains, tho Communistsalono aro silont in Japan sinoo
Donocrats, Liborals and Socialists havo boon givon cor-
tain libortios with rogard to tho pross and assooiation.
Tho articlo also statos that thc Socialists donandod
no
on Sopt. 23 that tho Cormunists bo liboratod but adds that
it is doubtful whothor tho lattor could play a vory activo
rolo owing to tho long yoars of sufforing ondurod in jail.
The faot
SUR U
Anal
CT 5-1945
CONFIDENTLL
eo
Oat.
iDist

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIL
-2 #5760, Soptonbor 28, :11 a.m., fron Paris.
Tho fact that this articlo is carriod in LIBREs pose
tho quostion whothor a canpaign will bo oponod in Paris
for tho liboration of Cormunists in Japan, ospocially
sinco Magnion in today's HUMNITE conplains that whilo
Hoarst is placing his hand on pross agoncios in Japan and
Japanoso trcs aro boing utilizod in China, including
Indo-China, aglinst tho pooplo "for tho ostablishmont of
poaco and ordor" thoro ronain in Japan "moro man 10,000
Conrunists in prison" and conscquontly "it is obvious
that no cloar diroctivo lino has boon drawn up within
tho franowork of intor-Alliod cooporation with rospoot to
Japan". This is why, concludos Magnion, tho Soviot
Union at London raisod tho qucstion of a cormon "politioal
lino" for Japan.
To Dopt. as No. 5760, ropoatod to London as 712,
lioscow as 339.
CAFFERY
FS
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.89)
SUPRENE COMDNANDEMR FOR THE ALLIED POWERS,
TORYO.
13
FOR ATCHESON, POLITICAL ADVISER.
Please inform the Department what astiem has
taken regarding the release of Japanese politieal
There are reports in Ameriee that many have mot bes
liberated.
Aohoon
Aoting
na
san
D7.,t
PE
JArHLSry:mls
10-1-45
dep
00245

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.86)
AIRGRAM SENT
Department of State
CONFIDEMTIAL
NO. 4-30
Washington,
TIME
Nov 21, 1945
Po te Act . S. Ielirleal Auviser
Allied Powers,
S
Reference
telegram 19 of October 4, Department
894.00/10-445
irlic information
1s transmitting by air pouch
 following Jayanese:
Ad
A,c
Daie
Ham i t, Kiporo. onel
rasmits,
Kimura, yotaro
Rurusn, Saturo
isaburo, Admiral
C,M
CS
S
, General
Byrnes
0011
Byrnes
(J.S.)
fidential
894.
u
JA
11-20-45
ONFIDENNAL

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.97)
1
PARTMENT
INCOMING
OF
CENT
STATE
TELEGRAM
TELEGRAPH
ACTION - JA
INFO:
s
U
EB-265 -R
Tokyo via Har
C
This telegram must be
LE
olosely paraphrased be-
Deted October 4, 1945
FE
foro boing communionted
De
DC/L-1 to anyono. (SECRET)
Rec'a 11:40 a.m., 8th
ES
FC
A-R
Scorotary of State,
File
Washington.
19, October 4.
Vo rc undertaking immediately at request Supreme
Commander comprohensive study of Jepanesd politteal
grorps and parties, porsonalities, objectives and his-
tories. Roqucst Dopartment forvard at once by air mail
all such portinent biographic matorial and research
studics as may be available from Dopartment , Oss, FBI,
FCC, ONI, iIS, or other governmontal agoney. OSS biogra-
phic filcs bolieved of cspccially broad scopo.
ATCHESON
MAY2 3 1946
EDA
FILED
SECRET
Confidential File

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.91)
1945
BECRET
o. 3
To the
Acting United States Pelitieal Adviser to
The Supreme Cemmander for the Allied Powers,
American Embassy Building,
Tokyo.
With referenee to the Acting Politieal Adviser's
telegram No. 19, October 4, 1945 the Department tramemits
for his information the following biographieal mterials
1.
List of Japanese pelitieal parties and their
important members prepared by Oss.
2.
Biographical reports of Japanese pelitieal
leaders prepared by oss, together with infer-
mation added from the Department's files.
3.
Confidential biographical reports takam frem
the files of the Personnel Intelligenee Sestiem
in the Department.
Two documents containing biographical mmterial
prepared by MTD.
12
in
Confideutial 
25.
11
894.0c/10-4145
JA:HLoryimls/eed
10/17/45
YR

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.94)
Department of State
NO. T
Washingtos,
TIME
Oct 17, 1945
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS,
TOKYO.
FOR ATCHESON, POLITICAL ADVISER.
Your
Reference
October 4, 1945. The Depart 1 transmitting by
air pouch b:orraphical material regarding Japanese
political leaders.
Material pertaininy to Japanese political partie
will be sent as son as it is prepared.  Dep
will endeavor t supply any other material that you
may require.
By ones
CS/LE
Byrned(p)
OCT
JA: HLory: mp
DOR
NE Ont
10-16-45

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.91)
AIRGRAM SENT
Bepartment of State
421
NO.
Washington,
TIME
Oct 24, 1948
PODOL ADVISER TO 
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS,
TOKYO
Referenee be: ts A-7, Cetober 7 and your 19,
.iransmittingby airpouch
à to hie mterial regaruing prominent
0/10-445
pmaerial consists r reports prepared
i suy cata from the Personal
inrtion pertinent to
i' iles. Mention of names in
in will greatly facil-
eivin copies of the
concerning this matter
stra pr
Supro Commanuey as
CS/994.0
well as
ggiregarding the
Byses
(AR)
CR
Bymes
OCT
4 1945
ES: HvanOss:
10-23-45
JA
V.O
C

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.94)
Department of
NO. A18
TIME
Oot 31,
To the Acting U. S. Political Adviser.
To the Supreme Conmander for the Allied Powors,
Tokyo
594.00/104
Reference your telegram 19 of October 4 Dopt 1s
transmittin by airpouch a biographic report on Prine
Fuimara Konoye Irepared by the Interim Research and
I telligence Service or the Department (formerly the
Research anu Analysis Branch, Oss), as well as miscell-
anccus auaitional information concernis the Prince
Byrnes
tasen Iror the Dept's files.
(Gn)
Byrnes
JAAM
ES:Hvdss:
10-30-45
31

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.94)
J
PE
106
WFT.
Tm. Deto
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE
DIKISKOHOF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
0
ら
Sub ject:
General Plan for Reformation of
h
Japanese Government.
M
0
The underlyine despatch from Tokyo
contsine a memorandum to the Supreme
Conmander in w: lch it is stated that any
0
Cabinet Ministers end Vice Ministers who
h
wish to institute reforms may be blocked
by the ettitudes and resistance of their
subordinates. Ihe memorandum pointe out
that after the directive, of October 4,
1945, for the removal of restrictions on
nolitical, civil and religious liberties
hes been carried out, personnel reguire-
ments of the home hinistry will be reduced
by tc per cent. It is recommended, there-
fore, that when such reduction takes place
the Ministry should be required to replace
50 per cent of the renaining officials
ith nev personnel. It is elso recommended
that e similar prccedure be adonted for
other min'steries end that the Ministry
of ar end of Navy should be entirely
abolished when demobilization haes been
completely sccomplished. Mr. Atcheson
suggests that if the plan is adopted the
sppropriate Jananese officials be informed
so that they may take the desired action
themselves.
HB
JA:HBorton:mls

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.92)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
.07
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OTICE F THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVI
Dc/R
Tokyo, Japan,
October 10, 1945.
SECRET
No. 4
SUBJrCT: Generel Plen for Reformetion of Japanese'Government.
H
PM
110
2
11
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose copy of a memorandum of this date to
894.00/10-1045
the Supreme Allied Commander suggesting a general plan to further the
reformation of the Jepmnese Government by replacement of long sesvise
reactionary subordinate personnel. We have reason to believe thas
high officials who endeavor to undertake desired reform gemerally feel
themselves handicapped and even blocked entirely by the opposition er
passive resistance of their subordinates and some comprekensive plan
for replacement of long service reactionaries would seem meeessery for
any fundamentel and effective reformation of the government.
It will be observed that, as regards the Ministers of Wer and the
Navy, recommendation is made that they be entirely abolished after
completion of demobilisation and surrender of military equipment and
facilities as their continued existence in a demilitarised country
would be without justification.
Respectfully yours,
George 'Ateheson, Jr.
CS/VJ
Enclosure:
Momorandum to Supreme Commander
dated October 10. 1945.
Original, with reverse carbon.
to Department.
 Unn
Ga/emi
211N

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.98)
Enalcaure to Deapatch No. 4. dated Octeber 10.
on the subject "General Plan for maformation of
108
MEMORANDUM FOR: Supreme Commander and Chief of StafY.
SUBJECT: Reformation of Japanese Government.
One of the obvious difficulties in the way of a suitable
reformetion of the Japenese Government is the reactionary atsitude,
due to early training and long bureaucratic service, of the sub-
ordinate officials of the various ministries It is to be assmed.
for example, thet most officials in subordinete (but importent)
executive posts have served from fiffteen to twenty-five years.
at least the last fourteen of which have been devoted to the further-
Ence of Jepanese eggression end imperielism, and there is reason
to believe that Cabinet ministers and vice ministers who honestly
wish to institute reform feel themselves blocked by the reactionary
attitudes or passive resistance of such subordinetes.
By rough estimete the recent directive of October 4, 1945 for
the removel of restriction on politicel, civil end religious
liberties should cruse the abolition of fifty percent of the pesitions
in end under the Home Ministry. As those remaining will doubtlessly
be for the most pert reactionary old hands and as reportedly many
in office during the war who were responsible for resressive, pelicies
that in due course efter the directive has been carried out the
Ministry be required to replace fifty percent of the remmimins pom-
sonnel with new personnel. It is also recommended that a simil
procedure be adopted with regard to other ministries so that withim
e few months time seventy-five percent of the old persommel will be
replaced by new. The Justice Ministry, for example, should 
thoroughly overhauled, especihlly the procurator's departmept. As
regerds the Ministry of Finance, much in this directism has probably
been accomplished by the shutting down of imperialistic banking in-
stitutions and the process could be carried through the gorermment
monopolies (tobacco, salt, camphor) and also through the gqrermment-
controlled industrial associations. As for the Ministry of Wer and
Navy, it is believed that they should be entirely abolished when
demobilization end surrender of oquipment and facilities have been
accomplished as their contimued existence thereafter would be with-
out justification in e demilitarized country.
If some such plan is adopted, it is further recommended that
eppropriate officials of the Japanese Government be so informed in
order thet they may have opportunity themselves to take the desired
action.
GEORGE ATCHESON,JR.
George Atcheson, Jr.

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.94)
88
11.
"pc/k
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE
DWWISTON OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Uctober 11, 1945
r. Acheson:
The following is & rief summary of an interesting
me o. nuum on "or anization of the Japan ocialist Farty"
ppared uy rillip allivan of ILll:
There are idications that memoers of various
894.00/1
rival labor-socialist or a.i/ations of pre-war days
may be able to unite into a new Socialist party.
.eetings nave teen neli recently for this purpose
unter lie ponsors ip of Toyoniko la awa, Christian
social worker, isoo be, formerly president of the
re-war Japanese socialist arty, which was suppressed
in the carly tairties, anu other socialist and labor
leaders. Tneir tentative pro,ram calls for political,
C
social and econonic reforms along traditional lines
o1 mild soclalism. T Is development appears fully
consistent with the United states policy for apan.
45
So far as Is hnown, the activities of the
vocialists do not incluue te participation of the
Japanese Conmunists, wuo, except for those just re-
leased fron. prison, are still in China. The apanese
mancipat:on Lea ue at Yenan nas been calling on all
democratic cle...ents in Japan to unite under the leader-n
snip of the Japanese Comunist Party. The Japanese
urmunists in China may not be able to participate
in the aenociatic ana socialist activities because of
uifficulties in returning to Japan. Lowever, they
will probably work effectively amon; the Japanese in
hina in anticipat on of their return to Japan.
According to newspaper and reaio reports of the last
few days, the democratic ana socialist elements, whicn are
cooperating to form the Japan Socialist Farty, criticized
the new Japanese cabinet and uemanded freedom and demgcracy.
DCK
 Uie demonstrations upon the release of the apanese.
894.00
21
Communists from prison this week, agitation a ainst the
imperial institution was evident.
√cV.
/10-1145
CA: JRFriobman:as

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.92)
.DEPARTMENT
INCOMING
DIVISI
OF
CENTRAL
ATE
TELEGRAM
TELEGRAPH
LCTION: JA
INFO:
S
JRL-354-0
PLAIN
DC
TU
C
Mosoow via War
ESC
L
Dated Ootober 13, 1945
UR
PL
Rec'd. 3:20 p.m.
DC/L-1
ITP
Fill
OFD
Secrotary of State
FM
TS
Washington
PD-2
HK
4.00/10-1345
FC-14
OPI
3522, Thirtoenth.
PL
OIC
Therc follows brief summary of major article by 
I. I
..-C
Polesski entitled "Financila oligarchy in Japan", whioh
i.-Mc
..-B
appears in RED STAR October 11.
SPI.
IS
Numerous rocent articlos in Japanese press argue that
Sh.
S∴/GN
only militarists bear war guilt, that ruling group of
S../M-2
Japaneso industrialists is "stabilizing factor" in Japanese
wme
political lifo, and that financiers and industrialists
woro hostile toward agrossive military circles. Japanose
10-15-40
papers recommend that Allios rely upon theso "peace loving"
115 Hunter
industrialists in strugglc against militarism. Purpose
—144
of thoso arguments is cloar: Ruling cliquos of Japan are
trying to save what thoy can from arsenal of Japanose
imporialism. Idca that Japanoso financial oligarchy is
not rosponsibl for war in Far East is in ntradiction
withhis
rioal
9
1945
PLAIN
1151

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.98)
PLAIN
-2-#3522. Thirteenth. from Mosoew via Ware
with historical facte. Article goes on to cite histosteal
facts confirming lattor statoment. Thesis developed is
that whole history of growth of Japanese ooneerns is bound
up in closest possible manmor with Japanese imporialist.
aggression during past fifty years. Conolusion is that.
Japanose financial oligarchy boars just as much
responsibility as Japanoso military for Japan's aggressor
polioy and war in Far East.
MESSAGE UNSIGNED
RR
PLAIN

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.82)
1
U-Un achinm
I helene this
summay mill
inlint you.
JCV
NOV7-19452

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.97)
a
DAT: November 2,
Q
1945
TO
FROM :
WTT
SUBJECT :
This despatch from Tokyo discusses
political parties in Japan.
The follow-
ing is a thumh-nail resume:
From the beginning of the China
Incident in 1937 the o1d line parties
declined in influence, and were dis-
solved 1n 1940. Thereafter, attempts
were made to form a kind of national
totalitarian party, but without much
real success.
Defeat presents Japan for the first
time with conditions under which a genuine
party forn of rovernment may evolve.
Whether and when sueh a government may
emerge is unpredictable.
There are only three political
groups which have any inportance at
present:
(1) the "Liberal Party", under the
leadership of atoyama, an old-line
politician. This party is actually
more conservative than liberal.

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.98)
DATE:
JCV
TO
WTT
FROM :
SUBJBCT :
-2-
(2) the Socialists are not yet
organized or recognized as a political
party.
Efforts are being made to amalgamate
into one party the various groups of
soclalistic persuasion. Kagawa is one
well-known socialist leader; another
is Kanju Kato.
(3) the communists, who have been
outlawel until recently, are in process
of reorganization, and show signs of be-
coning a vigorous, disoiplined and aggres-
sive group. They desire to overthrow the
throne. They are orthodox in their views,
but profess willingnese to accept an
interim period of "derocracy".
hy
JA:WTTurner:mp

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.96)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
ASSIFILD
DC/
Tokyo; Japan,
October 15, 1945.
No. 17
sle
CUBJECT: oliticnl Iarties in Japan.
FE/R
The Honorable
15
11
The Secretary of State,
Nashington.
Sir:
I have the honor to report that in a memorandum dated
October 3, 1945 from the Chief of Staff, it is requested
that this office undertake "a study of the politioal parties
of Japan, their background, personalities and objeetives,
with a special purpose of determining their trends." Copies
of this memorandun and of a menorandum on the subjeot of
political parties in Japan, dated October 11, 1945, which
was forwarted to the Supreme Commander and the Chief of
Staff, are enclosed. The memorandum represents only an
initial and prelininary survey of this important aspeot of
Japanese political activity.
Summary of Memorandun: In and around Tokyo, thore are
many political groups forming, but only three at the moment
show definite signs of national importance: the "Liberal
Party," the socialists, and the communists. The Liberal Par-
ty is under the Ieadership of Tchiro H ToYtl, former exeou-
tive director of the defunct Seiyukai party and professional
politician and Diet menber for many years. The party, com-
posed for the most part of professional politioians with a
few journalists, diplomats, and colloge professors, is more
"conservative" than "liberal." The socialists are not yet
organized or recognized as a political party. Efforts are
being made to amalgamate the "left" and"right" wing elements
of labor and other conflicting groups with general socialist
tendenoies. Toyohiko KAGAWA, the Christian, socialist evan-
gelist, is one of the prominent persons in these efforts to
form a party, but is regarded more as a "front" than as a
ar leader. The communists, whose leaders have just been
liberated,
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.92)
2
- 2 -
liberated, are in process of organization and show definite
si ns of becomin:  vigorous, well-disciplined, and aggres-
sive grou. They desire to destroy the imperial institution.
They are orthodox in thoir views, but profess willingness
to accet a transition period of indefinite duration during
which "de:locracy" wi'1 be pro oted as a necessary step
toward com lete corunizution o. Jaman. End of Summary.
Respectfully yours,
Secy Abheo
eorge tcheson, Jr.
inclosures:
1. Fron Chiof of tf,
ctobe,15.
To Suprcne Co:  nder and
Chiof of taff, ctober 11,
1. 45.
erorondun reg dn oliti-
cal xirties in n on,ctber 11,
1045.
(ri inal, ith rev rse carbon,
to t'e De rt ont.
800
B/emi
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.99)
3:
Enclosure. No. 1 to Despatch No. 17 of October 15,
from the Acting Political Adviser to the Supreme
Commander, Tokyo, Japan, on the subject "Political
in Japan."
COPY
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
UNITED STATES ARMY FORCES, PACIFIC
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF-OF-STAFF
3 October 1945
MEMORANDUM:
FOR
Mr. Atcheson.
The Supreme Commander requests that you undertake
a study of the political parties of Japan, their background,
personalities and objectives, with a special purpose of
determining their trends. Your studies and advice will be
requested in the consideration of the development of the
political structure in the modification of the feudal and
authoritarian tendencies and the development of a peace-
fully inclined and responsible goverrment. Your studies
will contribute largely to the determination of the per-
sons who will be permitted to participate in government,
in insuring that membership is held only by persons who
may be relied upon to further the purposes of the occupa-
tion.
The Supreme Commander requests that you give him weekly
a memorandum setting forth the results of your studies and
any recommendations you may desire to present in the pre-
mises.
R. K. SUTHERLAND
R. K. Sutherland,
Lieutenant General, U. S. Army,
Chief of Śtaff.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.99)
Cemmander, Tokyo, Japan, on the subject "Pelitieal
in Japan.
COPY
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japan,
UNCLASSIPTED
October'11, 1945.
MEMORANDU. FOR: Supreme Commander and Chief of Staff.
SUBJECT: Political Parties and Political Movements in Japan.
In compliance with the request in your memorandum of
October 3, 1945, we have undertaken a study of the above
subject, with the special purpose of determing the tronds
of the parties in question. We have requested that the
Department of State furnish us such pertinent biographic
information as may be available from the various Govern-
mental agencies in Washington. Locally we have asked for
the cooperation of G-2 and CIC to the extent that we may
receive, upon request, information on file in those sections
regarding the political activities and beliefs of individual
Japanese whose names we may come upon in connection with
our investigation and whose history and background may be
unknown to us.
There is enclosed the first report on the general sub-
ject. This report is necessarily preliminary in nature. We
shall expect to supplement it with further and more com-
prehensive reports to be forwarded to you weekly.
GEORGE ATCHESON, JR.
George Atcheson, Jr.
Enclosure:
Preliminary report on current
political parties, with appendix.
GAJr/em1
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.91)
Enclosure no: 3 te Despatch no. 17 of October 15, 1945,
from the Acting Politioal Adviser to the Supreme Allied
Commander, Tokyc, Japan, on the sutject "Politieal Partios
in Japan."
TICE THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVIS
COTUSMTIAL.
Toyo, Japan,
October 11, 1945.
POLITICAL PARTIES IN JAPAN
Japan's politicel parties declined in prestige and influenee during
the 1930's. while the clections of February 1936 revealed cons1derable
sentiment against the policies of the militarist leaders, inoreesing
police suppression silenced most opponents. Trom the beginning af the
"Chine Incident" in July 1937. the parties moved to a point of impotenee
and ins ignificence. The two leading parties. the Seiyukai and Minseito.
lost their individuslity end their ability to formulete polieies. The
Sociel Mess Party (Taishu-to) because of the trend of the timee wes
foroed into practical oblivTon. It was therefore no revolutionery
tep when the parties "voluntarily" dissolved themselves in 1940.
The Imperial Rule Assistance Association (Taieei Yorusen Kal)
wes organized in 1940 as a kind of national, totalitarlan perty to
embrace all the people in united prosecution of the wer againet China.
Diet members still mede some feeble attempts to be vocal and after
verious experiments with "Diet Mombers Clubs" and other orgenisations.
the Government formed the Imperiel Rule Asstetanoe Political Assoeiation.
Later during the war the Da1 Nippon Seij1 Kai (Greet Japen Politieal
Association wes organized, t  dissolved Yollowing Japan' urrender.
Defeat presente Japen for the first time with conditions under
which 1 mey be poesible to evolve  gennine party form of covermment.
How uccdully and how oon this cn be achired is of cour
matter of conyecture.
Lemiers of the ol: Minseito, Seiyukei and Taishuto are long time
le: membere with ex erience of frustration or political corruption.
They lack the freahness of viewpoint to face Japen's now situstion.
any of them, whether by necessity or not, heve participeted fully in
Japen's prosecution of the wor. Tounger, unteinted leadore are without
politics: exnerience
New politicel perties in Jepen e: the present cen a: best reflect
itle more than the efforts of professionel politicians, able to work
in n tmoophere of considere le freodom. to gather a folloving about
them pnd secure some polit ice! power. This i not to sey that the
leadere who re coming to the front no are not allsincere. Some are
dottle mn of goowil seeking to estrlish ganuine democre in
Japan Most  thom hove worked too long in a pattarm. however. to
change funiementally Cl iques wil devel op.  in the peet history of
ra enese political perties, n: there may be expecte: little vision,
inination. r inerire thioxine n the destiny of triy democratic
v1on.
New porfticel o rttes er a in the pr cese of formetion None
as yet been officially orgenizel. The mee' prominent ores to date are
the ro ted y Ichiro HatotAe wotch  resent calts teetf the Now
aes arearty Shin Pther utead ahe Soctettet gro. eetted

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.94)
-2 -
Present indicntions are that early polisieal astivity will be
Japanese life, to promote the welfare of the peeple, and to restere
among these groupe will probably cepter around the qesstiem ef hew far
and how rapidly they wish to al ter traditional sesial and eessemls re-
the imperial institution and of the imberited nobility.
There follows a brief discussion of the "Liberal," Socialist, and
mature to make mosurate estimates of the potential strength of these
groups and of their ultimate charecter and objectives.
THB LINERAL PARTY
From present indicatione the strongest of the parties will prebebly
be the Liberal Party (tantatively named Jiyu-to) whose guiding spirit
is Ichiro Hategamas
Hateyama, formerly ezecutive director of the Seiyuka1 party, is a
2.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.92)
7
-3-
siderable seppert for his party.
to affiliate with this party.
dividual and will premote democratie tendemsies. Be adved
ter as speedily as possible.
Bareau.
SOCIALIST PARTY
If the histery of Japenese proletarias parties repeats itealf,
ers to keep the alemeats together. Incladed in the perty are Diet
wings together.
Ome of the influential organisers of the Sostalist groups is Xame-
Another outstanding figure with leng emperience in Japanese
labor mevements is Kaaja KAīO.
a pewerful figure in the.
Ls rapostak
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.89)
8
paints his sigs."
THE COMMOMIST PARTY
prisoned for many years will immediately begin the wesk ef soes
their party.
events and personalities
well translate themeelvel
tion in Japan.
Commesist leeders vike are mow being released fron prieen stake
of comsiderable strengthy
Like the Cammnnista Ia China, the Japanose dawy asosesatiae with
peal of eppsesetve legialatisn.
It
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.95)
9
-5-
along the wsual politieal lines somewhat as folléwe:
The landed gentry may well support this group mless they med a
over questions of taxation.
(b) Liberal, middle class, and certain intelligeatsia elemsats
who will favor greater emphasis cn social rather them eesmemle legle-
policies. It is to be expected that they will eveatwally farer a
position for the esperor and the nobility resembling that of the
British king and nobility.
(c) The socialists will favor socialisation of Japamte seemey
ments. They will probably favor retentiem of the eneerer snd ak Imest
some of the nobility in a restrieted position removed from pelitims.
(d) The cosmunists, who, while adroeating a tremsitiom peried ef
"demoorasy," will work for a commmist sosiety and state with abelitiom
of the emperor and of eapitalim
The role which will be played by these elements whieh suppert the
emperor and the nobility for reasons of traditiemal leyalty is maet yet
clear. It is believed that for the most pert their politieal astivity.
will be in sappert of the above first two bread greups.
There is appended a list of politisal parties or groups whish have
been annoumced in the press. (These groupe will be later subjests of
individmal study.)
Appended:
List ef palitical perties
or groups.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.84)
10
-6-
APE
PARTIAL LIET CI HAPING PARN
OE NEW POLITICAL GROUPS
Now Japan Liberal Party (shin Mippon JAyuto)
The neme has not been decided mor the party fermally
orgenised. The date for formal founding of the perty hes
been amnoumoed to be November 9. 1945.
President: Ichiro HATOTAMA
Vice President: Tsuruhe1 MATSUNO
Adberents:
Hitoshi ASHIDA (present Welfare Minister
Seijum ANDO
Wataru NARAHASHI (Chief, Cabinet Legislative Buresa)
Ichiro KOMO
Reikichi KITA
shinji s000
Kam KIROCHI
Tusaku SHIMANAKA
Ryoso MAKINO
Japan Socialist Party (Mippon Shakai-to).
The neme has not been determined nor the party formally
organised.
Toyohiko KAGAWA
Jotaro EREARI
Mitsu KONO
Temosuke ELETONI
Bumji SUZUKI
Notojire 
Sushire NISAIO
Komakichi MASUOKA
Kamju KATO
Shigesabure sUsKI
Totsn KATAYAHA
Masemicki TAKATSU
Isce
Chesabure MINTANI
Ivasabgro TAK
Jlichiro MATSONOFO
TatseejORITO
Tuse HIRUASO
RyoJ1 (mOUTE
Japm Polittenl Ansogiation (Hipnen geiii-al or Eten! La1).
Dissolved following surrender. May be reorganised uader
new name.
The following groups are not of mufficient importamse to merit
the neme of political parties. Some of them may in the fature develep
adkerente and some influence.
Ha Lape Party (ha tppen-to).
Kiyoshi TALABII
Sanetalin IOMIBO
Takayaki KARrO
UNOLASSHIED

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.86)
-7-
Stey  Cd (Deha L).
Eyee1 C0CHI
Teiso TODA
Daissteu SUZOKI
Shaiso KOIZUNI
Peoplee Cultured Aasociation ( Jimmin Banke Demet).
Inst itute for the Study of Permement Peece (Sen Xara Men Xae).
Organizer Prinee Yochichika TOKUGAWA
Free Dieeassion Grosp (Jiya Kendanikai).
Witeshi ASHIDA
Isoe E
Nosei 
ChikeIIMNNA
Tsmage BABA
Toyohike KAGAA
International Pesee Soslety (Kokusai Heive Kvokai).
Organiser: Toychike KAGAWA
President: Prince HIGASHI-KUNI
Teisaburo SnKIYA
Japan Intelligentaia Association (Nihon Bulikn-jin Bemmei).
Takashi TATSUNO
Hitoshi ASHIDA
Society for the Stady of the Reconstruct ien of Men Japen (Shin Time
Kensetsu Chosakcal)
Ken IUKAI
Y. MORISHITA
JKE/emi
UNULAE

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.97)
no.1
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATEG POLITICAL ADVISER
UNCLASSIFIED
Tokyo, Japan,
October 11, 1945.
PCLITICAL PARTIES IN JAPAN
Japen's politicel perties declined in prestige and in-
fluence durin the is3o's. Ahile the elections of February
l936 revecled the coneiderable sentinent against the polioies of
the militari t leaders, increesing police suppression silenced
most opoonents. ron the beginning of the "China Incident"
in July l:37, the perties aoved to a point of impotence and
inuignificurce. The two leadin: nerties, the Seiyukai and
inseito, lost their individuality and their ability to for-
mul: te polieies. he ociel lass Party (Teishu-to) because
of the trend or the tines ws forced into practical oblivion.
t ts therefore no revolutionary step when the parties
"voluntarily" dissolved th aselves in 1940.
The Imperial Rule .ssi tunce Association (Teisei Yoku-
san nai) was orgenized in l94u as e kind of nationel, totali-
tarien perty.to enbr ce ell the people in united prosecu-
tion or the war tgainst China. Diet meabers still made some
feeble atteapts to be vocel and atter various experiments with
the "Diet .embers Clubs" end other organizations, the Govern-
ment forned the Im erial lule assistance Political Assooiation.
Leter durim: the wer the Dai Nippon Seiji Mai (Great Japan
oliticel As ociation) was organized, to be dissolved follow-
ing Jepan's surrender.
befect presents Jupan for the first ti e with conditions
under which it mey be possible to evolve a genuine party form
of covernment. How successfully and now soon this cen be
ccnieved is of course a metter of c njecture.
Leaders of the old inseito, eiyukai and Taishuto are
long time Diet members witn experience of frustration or
politicel corru. tion. They luck the feshness of viewpoint
to face Japan's new situetion. lany of them, whether by ne-
ces ity or not, have p: rtici ated fully in Japan's prosecution
of the ver. Younger, untcinted lecders ore without politicel
experience.
New political peities in Janan et the present can at best
rerlect little ore then the efforts of professionel politi-
cians, able to work in an ataosphere of considerable freedon,
to gather a following &bout them and secure sone political
power. This is not to sey thet the leaders who are coming to
the rront now ere not all sincere. ome cre doubtless men of
good-will seeking to ests! lish genuine dembcracy in Japan.
Most of then hove worked too long in a pettern, however, to
change fundenentally. Cliyues will develo, as in the past
history of Jepanese political parties, end there may be expected
little vision, imasination, or inspired thinking on the destiny
of a truly denocratic nation.
New p litical perties ere still in the process of forma-
tion. None has yet been officielly organized. The most pro-
minent ones to date are the group led by Ichiro HAToYAMA which
at present
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.97)
UNCLASSIFIED
- 2 -
at preeent calls itself the New Japan Liberal Party (Shin Nihon
Jiyuto) and the Socialist group, called also the Proletarian
or Labor Farty. while not yet reorganized, the dissolved Nippon
Seiji Kai (Japan Political Associetion) still remeins a poll-
ticel force, representing conservative, right-wing elements.
The Communist Farty will undoubtedly become active with the
release of severel pro.ninent leaders fron long imprisonment.
Nunerous other saeller gr ups heve held meetings and may later
emerge as politicel parties. o fer they ere little more than
discussion groups.
During the past eight or ten years almost all intellignt
Jananese have been forced to direct their efforts to problems
of wer or preparation for w: r. The younger men instead of fol-
lowing normel pursuits heve been taken by the Armed forces. In
the face of greet destruction tnd the sudden end of the war and
pf termination of ailitt ry direction end control of every phase
of Jepanese life, tnere is widespread anxiety over Japan's
future. There is also greet uncertainty over how far Allied
demands will go in &ltering Japan's traditional way of life,
over how long nilit ry occu ation will last, and over how well
Janarn will be sble to support its population and prevent revolt
and chuos should bare neces ities becone unavailable. For these
and similer reasons, Javenese are reluctant to come forwerd as
politicel le ders. how ver, as reater confidence develops
end as our policies becone clarified, these fears (including
the leer of being clessed b" the Jananese as a "quisling") will
lessen, and political &rties of nation-wide strength and of
well-defined purpose can develop to the point where they can
leed the Japanese  eople and control the Japanese Government.
The political educuti n of the apenese will require time. New
leeders must rise ir a a:l clesses including the younger intel
lectuel groups and fro: tie long onpressed proletariet.
Present inlicrtions are that early politicel activity will
be cherrcterized by the formation of  large number of political
or quasipoliticel grcups in ell purts of the country. The an-
n unced progrems of eccit sroup will undoubtedly be to "libera-
lize" or to "denocratize" Japanese life., to promote the welfare
of the people, and to restore J&pan to a respectable position
in the fam ly of nations. Difrerences a iong these groups will
probebly center around the question of how far and how rapidly
they wish to alter trcditional social ond ecnomic relation-
sips, especielly the traditional prerogatives and position of
the im erial institution and of the inherited nobility.
There follows 9 brief diccussion of the "Liberal," Socialist
and Connunist &roups, based upon m: terial now et hend. It is
still premeture to make accurtte estimates of the potential
strength of t ese groups end of their ultimate cherecter and
objectives.
THE LIBERAL ARTY
Fron present indications the strongest of the parties will
probebly be the Liberal Party (tent: tively nemed(Jiyu-to) whose
guiding spirit is Ichiro liatoyame:
Hateyama, formerly executive director of the Seiyukai
party, is a professional politician and Diet member of long
standing. lle. is a lawyer, sixty-two yeers old. He was chief
secretary
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.97)
UNCLASSIFIED
3
secretary of Cabinet of Giichi TANAKA in 1927 and Minister o
Education in the Inukai Cabinet in l93l. Baron Tanaka is, of
course, well-known as a n&tionalist and expensionist and ha
won fame as the reputed autnor of the Tanaka Memorial. Hato
yama's career as Minister of Educetion is reputed not to have
furthered academic freedon in Japan. It is aloo reported that
hatoyame wes one of the orgtnizers of the nati nalistio Vetorans
Associetion (zaigo Gunjin Kai). however, he has apperently
not taken an ective pert in the prosecution of the war and may
be able to gain considerable support for his party.
Announced nembers and supporters of the Liberal Party ro-
resent principally professionel ooliticians with a sprinkling
of writers, journalists, diplo ts, cnd college professors.
.c ording to tne press, lifty-two present Diet members have sig-
nified their intenti n to affiiliate with this party.
ne toy: ax lts in interviews with the press end at committeo
meetines outlined the party's policies. e hus stated that
Jepen is a pnarchyend not a democrrcy but that his party res-
pects the rignts or the individuel and will promote demooratio
tendencies. ne advocetes return of political and economic free-
don to the peof le, re orm or the Diet, especially the House of
Feers, and election reforn, including granting of woman suf-
frige. He hes proposed thet Japan set up a court to try war
criminals and dvocates soluti n of the problems of food and
shelter as spedily s cssible.
ntoyeme's perty might fer better be termed Conservatie
than Libercl. Certainly he represents no fresh or revolution-
ery viewpoint. Until the proletcrian purties h: ve time to or-
ganize and cevelop a following, the Jiyuto will probably win
nost sup ort. It is likely tnst it will emerge from the first
elections as the predoainant perty. It is represented in the
present Cabinet by two members, Hitoshi SIDa, Minister of Wel-
fere and eteru Hiabl, Chief o. the Legislative Bureau.
.OCIALIST PRTY
If the nistory of J: penese proletcrian perties repeats it-
self, tiere will be little inity in the present Socialist or
Prolet:rian :arty (nrme not yet deternined). It is now com-
posed of divergent elenents and its strength will depend upon
the obility of its leaders to keep the elements together. In-
cluded in th. pcrty ure Diet members, & number of university
profes ors cne former tr:de union lesders. trenous efforts
are being atde to keep the risht and left wings together.
One of the influentiel organizers of the Cocialist groups
is Momakichi MToUo, formerly president of the Association
of Jenanese Labor Unions. He wus active in the Social Mass
Farty. e is accused by tue Conmunists of meking deals with
the cepitalists, of buying off strikers, end of being actually
an gent of the aibtsu.
Another outstanding figure with long experience in Japa-
nese labor novements is Kanju KaTC.
One of the best known leaders is Toyohiko KAGAWA, the
Christian socielist. Kagawa is regarded, however, as a front
man rather than a powerful figure in the perty. Although he is
UNCLASSIFIED
respeoted

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.95)
UNCLASSIFIED
respected in the United Ststes, his record in Japan during war
yeurs is not sootless. lie is reputed to have made numesous
broudce ts to the United tates supporting Japants war polioio.
So for us is known, he hes not denied mexing these broadoast
end liberal Ju tnese scy that ne rendily "repaints his signs".
Fro. the prelimim ry m etines of the socialist group no
detui led p liticei  l: tipra is yet energed. Cn October 2 it
announced tntt e coecitl he. tiag would b held on October 5 to
demand the releas of politicel orisoners. One of the issues
report  to be under discussion is whether the party shall in
its pl: tform pey nom re to the nperor or whether it shall omit
mention of hin. here is no indication thet the party will
oppose the inperial in: tit tion. The Comaunisists derisively
call te purty the "ocislist mperor Party" (Shakai Tenno-to).
T.L CO.mUNI1 FARTY
"ith the release of politicel prisoners as a result of the
directive of Cetober 4, tie Japanese Coaauni-t leaders who have
been inprisoned for many years will imnediately begin the work
of reorgenizing their perty.
It is estirt tnt tuere tre aoproximately 3,ooo members
of the Co Iunist Iarty in Japan. Con unists state that an orga-
niz: tion i "Ireecy in the process of formation both in Tokyo
und in Ibaraki prefecture. In Tokyo, 5,ooo supporters are ex-
pected for a party to be call d ew  roletarian Party (Musan
Chin-to).
I'robably the three out tanding Japanese Comnunist leaders
are yuichi TCKUDA, Yoshio iIG., nd Sanji (usumu) NCSAKA
(). The first two tre veing releesed from Fuchu prison
efter eighteen yeers of incarceration. Okeno is still in Com-
munist Chine, so far as is known. Tokude claims to be the only
surviving chirter aember or the Jaconese Conaunist Party, or-
gonized in l922.  nes been in .oscow thrse times on special
missions to tie Co. intern und in spite of his long imprisonement
is remorktble well-inforned on Jaoanese politicel events and
personelities. .e hits uolities of leedership which may well
translate thenselves into a vigorous Con unist Party organiza-
tion in Jep:n.
The Coaaunists are the only political group openly and vi-
gourously advoct ting the &bolition of the imperial institution.
They believe thet cemocr: cy is inconpatible with the existence
of the umperor and the Imperisl Household end blame much of
Japan's reactionary nationalism tnd militaris on the Emperor
system.
Comaunist leuders who ore nov being releesed from prison
state thet since the announcement of their coming release they
heve been deluged with comnunications fron sympethizers. They
are confident that within two or tiree nonths they can organize
a political party of considerable strength.
Like the Communists in China, the Jrpenese deny associa-
tion with the Soviet Conmunists. They advocate a period of
"democracy" and only expect true communism in the distent
future. They demand social end politicel reforms, breaking up
of the capitalist monopolies, end repeal of oppressive legisle
UNCLASSIFIED
tion.
It may be

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.95)
-UNCLASSIFIED
- 5 -
It may be thet after a period of time various groups in
ifferent parts of the country will &melgemate and eventually
only & small number of netional parties will energe. These
perties will probrbly be along the usual politioal lines some-
whet ts follows:
(a) Conservative, industrial and con ercial elements who
vill fevor policies designed to revive Janan's trade and com-
werce to promote tne profit aotive and to preserve the capita-
list y tem. They will probably fovor social legislation along
tr: ditionel paternali:tic lines und will foster closely re-
gulsted trrde unions end colle tive bargaining as a means of
preserving pecceful lapor relations without allowing a real
tnreat to their economic system. They will be likely to favor
un ortrodox view of tre nobility and the iuperial family. The
lundee  entry moy well sup ort this group unless they are divi-
ded over questions or ti xation.
(b) Liberel, mid ie clcss, anu certain intelligentsia
ele rents who will ftvor greater euphosis on social rather than
economic legislation and policies. hile bescking private owner-
suip, the sat il ftetory oWner, faraer, &nd businessmen, they
will perieps urxe onop ly restrictions, stecdily improved con-
'itions for Itbor, decre sed cost of living, end other measures
in line ith 'middle-of-the-rosd" policies. It is to be ex-
peeted that they will eventu:lly favor a position for the empe-
ror cnd the nobility reseablin- tht of the British king and
nobility.
(e) The socielists wiil r: vor socielizttion of Japan's
economy end will meke & stron- bid to win the support of labor
tnd farier eiements. They will  robably fevor retention of
the eaperor and :t lu st some or the nobility in e restricted
osition renoved fro I polities.
(a) The comauni: ts, who, vhile tavocating e transition
period of "demoeracy", will wors for a communist society, and
sti te witi. abolition ol te e peror and of cepitslism.
The r le hien will be leyed by trese elements which
support the e eror (nd the nobility for rersons of traditional
loyalty is not yet lear. It is believed tlat for the most
purt their volitieal ectivity ill be in support of the &bove
first two broed eroupe.
There is uppended a list of politicul ptrties or er ups
whicn heve been ennouneed in tre ress.
(These sroups will
be leter cubjects of Individual tudy.)
appended:
List of politicel purties
or groups.
UNCLASSIFILD

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.93)
UNCLASSIFIED
APPENDIX
PARTIAL LIT OF LDING PERSONNEL
O.. NE.. FOLITICAL GROUPS
New Japan Liberal arty (Shin Nippon Jiyuto)
The neme nas not been decided nor the party for-
melly orranized. The dute for formel founding of the
party has been announced to be November 9, 1945.
President: Icniro TcYA
Vice President: Tsuruhei TUo
Adherents:
Hitosni fD. (present elfare Minister)
Seijun ADO
.ctoru N.RhHI (Chief, Cabinet Legislative Bureau)
Ichiro KCNO
Reikicni IT..
Jhinji JOGO
an IIUCHI
Yuseku .I.
Ryozo l
Japen Sociulist Farty (Nipron shakai-to)
The neme i's not been determined nor the party
forually orfanized.
Toyohiko G...
Jotaro h.AKAMI
Mitsu C..
Yonosuke KIKUCHI
Bunji JUZUXI
Motojiro SUGIYA
Suehiro NIsIo
Komakichi MATSUOKA
Kanju To
Shigesaburo SUZUKI
Tetsu KTnY
Mosamichi TTSU
Isoo AB
Chosaburo MIUTANI
Tatsuo MCRITO
Jiichiro L.TSUMOTO
Iwasaburo TaKv
Yuzo HIR.NO
Ryoji I..cUY
Javan Politicel Associetion (Nippon Seiji-kai or Nissei Kai)
Dissolved following surrender. Mey be reorganized
under new name.
The following roups are not of sufficient importance to
merit the name of political perties. ome of them nay in the
future develop edherents and sone influence.
New Japan Farty (Shin Nippon-to)
Kiyoshi TshI
Sanetaka ICnIO
Takayuki KNTO
Society of
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.94)
UNCLASSIFIED
-7-
Society of Comrades (Doshin Kai)
lHyoei OUCiI
Teizo TODA
Doisetsu SUZUKI
3huizo :CIZU.:I
Peoples Cultural Associetion (Jinmin Bunke Domei)
Institute for the tudy of Permenent Peace (Sekai Kokyu
eiwe enkyu-to)
Organizer rince Yoshichika TO UGaA
Free
Discussion Groun (Jiyu ondankai)
Hitoshi Ai.IDA
Isoo .BE
Rosei ALE
Chiko ThIh
Tsunego BB
Toyohiko 
International Peace pociety (Lokusai Leiwa Kyokai)
Crganizer: Toyohiko.Gn
Fresident: Irince HIGASHI-KUNI
Teisaburo JEKIYA
Janan Intelligentsia Association (ihon Bunka-jin Renmei)
Takashi To
Hitoshi s:ID.
oociety for the
tudy of the Reconstruction of New Japan (Shin
Nippon
Kensetsu
Chosekei)
ten HUAI
Y. MORISHITA.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.98)
SECURITY CLASSIFICATION
FORM DS-507
3-5-47
REQUEST FOR DECLASSIFICATION OR DOWNGRADING
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SECTION A
TO: 1. ORIGINATING OR ACTION DIVISION
EXTENSION
BUILDING
ROOM NO.
FE
2951
MS
3151
2. REQUESTER'S NAME
DIVISION
EXTENSION
BUILDING
ROOM NO.
Wilson C. Flake
FE
4834
NS
3181
3. DIVISION OF RECORD:
DC/R, REF, PD. etc. DC/B
SECTION B
ATTACHED
THE FOILOWING DESCRIBED DOCUMENT APPEARS TO NO LONGER WARRANT ITS SECURITY CLASSIFICATION
TYPE OF DOCUMENT
Despatch No. 17
TO:
DATE
The Secretary of State
10-15-45
FROM:
George Atcheson, Jr. USPOLAD TORYO
SUBJECT:
Political Parties in Japan
PRESENT CLASSIFICATION
CONFIDENTIAL
SECTION C
THE CHIEF OF THE DIVISION TO WHICH THIS FORM IS ADDRESSED OR A PERSON DESIGNATED BY HIM WILL REVIEW THE SUBJECT
DOCUMENT AND INDICATE THE DESIRED CLASSIFICATION.
CHANGE TO:
RETAIN PRESENT CLASSI-
TOP SECRETSECRETCONFIDENTIALRESTRICTEDUNCLASSIFIED
FICATION
(If cclaagid to ahiy claification eplain on reverae aide).
BY AUTHORITY OF:
. l felyyon
DATE
OFFICE OF ASS'T SECY FOR
U. Alexis Johnson
2/1/52
FAR FASTERH AFFAIRS
SECTION D
INSTRuCTIONS—(1) The requesting division wil1 complete lines (1) and (2) of Sectiom A and all of Section B of
this form in duplicate.
(2) Both copies of this form, with one copy of the document or docnmeats to be dowagraded or de-
classified, will be forwarded to the action or originating division coaceraed with the document attached where
practicable.
(3) The action or originating division will, if the conteats warrant, declassify or dowagrade the
document by completing Section Cof this form in duplicate and routing both copies to the divimiom respomsible for
maintaining the official record copy.
(4) The division that is the custodian of the record copy, upom receipt of this form, will file the
original of Form DS-so7, change the classification on the record copy of the document iavolved, asd forward the
duplicate copy of this form to the division initiating the request.
(5) The division which initiated the request will mote the action takea, make the mecessary chaages
in classification of documeats in its possession, and then route the duplicate of Porm DS-so7 to the Chief, Di-
vision of Security and Investigations (CSAl.
(6) In cases where the originating or action division wishes to isitiate the declassificatios, the
entire form will be completed and routed to the division maintaining the official record copy.
SECURITY CLASSIFICATION

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.97)
INCOMING
TELEGRAM
STATE
ACTION: JA
INPO:
8
JO-4-S
PLAIN
U
C
Moscow via War
LE-2
EUR-3
Dated Ootober 18, 1945
FE
DC/L-C
Reold 4 p.m.
SPD-2
FC-14
OPI
Seoretary of State
PL
INI
Washington
OIC
Fila
A-B
A-R
3585, EightEEnth
SPA
SA
Izvestiya October 18 comments as follows on political
SA/GN
SA/M-2
situation in Japan.
A-R/W
Recent rEsignation Higashi Kuni's Govt is undoubtedly in
itself a positive fact. However it has been replaoed by
Govt headed by Shidehara a man who in opinion of porion
of JapanesE and Anglo-American press 1s organically attaohed
to Japan's imperialist past. Present JapanEsE Premier's
wme
closE connections with most dangerous war criminale-heat
0-2245
of monopolist trusts-make him clearly an unsuitable figure
115(Gunt)
to implemEnt nEw polioy of decisivEly uprooting Japanest
militarism and Fascism. Setting up of Shidehara Cabinet
which uses liberal phrasEology lavishly can only complioate
task of full ExposurE of war criminals slow cown urgent and
necessary dEmocrntic transformations and arousE 1llusion that
Japan can bE rEbuilt by hands of old and hopelEssly
DCR
EUF
conpromised
NOV2=1945
Anal
PLAIN
U181.

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.96)
-8 ss85 Eighteenth from Nosoow
compromised political figures who are faithful servamte
Japanese imperialism.
JapanesE press announces that regular Eleotions to
JapanesE Parliament will bE sEt within BEveral weeks.
Japanese Govt promises to guarantee observance of all
dEmocratio freedoms. This gives risE to iden that no ser
1ous preliminary transfornations arE nEcEssary in Japan
as though Existing state nachinery without having undergone
any changes could guarantee freE Expression of will of
JapanEsE pEoplE. TherE 1s no doubt that all this can only
givE risE to harmful and dangerous illusions which by no
mEans faciliatates realization of conditions of Japan's
unaonditional surrender as urmulated in Potsdan Declaration
of July 26.
Sent Dept repeated Tokyo.
UNSIGNED
MRM
PLAIN

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.90)
Offinenf
FAR EASTERN APFAIRS
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
1945
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMIRICA
Oopartmant of State
FOLITICALA
UNASSIFIED
nc/a
Je., Cetoher 27, 1945.
39A
CA
7
Develop-
HB
IC
894.00/
894.00/10.1545
information
Supreme
ich
sub-
745
lained
ecording Desk
1.
DEC S71945
FILE
DOF NE Unt
2.2
D.
3

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.92)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 31 of October 27, 1945 
Acting Political Adviser to the Supreme Commander for 
Powers, Tokyo, Japan, on the subject "Periodic Report to
Supreme Commander: Developments of Political Parties and Move
ments for the Week Ending October 26, 1945."
OFFICE OF TEE UNITED SPATES POLITIGAL ADVEEER
UNCLAUir It U . J,  27. 295.
POLITICAL PARTIES IN JAPAN: DEVELOPHDNTS DURING THE WNK
EMDDNG 00TOBER 26, 1945
Both the Liberal and Secialist Parties have daring the past week
problems. That of the Secialist Party, is mach mose spesifie them the
progrem anasumsed by the Liberals.
HATOYAMA's Liberal Party has so far preseated its stend en
"diplemesy, polities, and admiaistratien". Its polisies em finemse and
unemployment, welfare of war sufferers and war ariminals are said te be
under study and will be annoumoed later.
The Liberal platferm so far smneuneed supports restifieetiem of
Jepan's "mistakan poliey toverd China" and reeevesy of intermetiemal
feith: revisiom of the Constitution and rederm af the Heuse af Peers,
authority of the House of Representatives, elestiom laws, and gearantes
of human rigits; refom in bureanorasy, revision of the system of
appointment of officials end elestiom of prefectural govermers. A eepy
is inaluded as an mppendix to this report.
The Socialist Part platform outlines policies cm laber, agrisul-
ture, social affairs, women's affairs, culture, md elestiems and
elestoral campaigss. These policies are discussed is the emslesed
report on the Socialist Party and a full cepy is imaluded as am appendix.
Communist Astivities
The Comsanists have approached the Socialist Party with a prepesel
for & wmited Pepular Front which has beem rejeeted. The Sesialists
state that it is teo esrly fer complete collaboratiem betweem the twe
parties but that omce the parties are well established they will be
prepared to cooperate closely.
The Cammunists held a rally in Osake c Octeber 19 whish was
addreseed by Kyaieki TokuDA, Comesmist leader reesatly releesed frem
prisom. At this meeting the formatiom of a "Peeple's Liberatiom
Federatiem" was ammoumeed. Tokude called fer comfiseatiem ef land and
its pereeling mmeng farmers.
The questiem of the attitade of the Commist Part toward the
Emperor is said to be a mabjeet of heated diseussiem ameng the Commmndsts
at present. In the mesnsime the prees hes sarried mowe iteme comseraing
mamifoste dresm up by the Camommist 1oadere Lmprioomod at Pashan (oogy
apponded), no Cemmist Party platform has been smmemeed.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.91)
UNCLASSIFIED
Lsttvities of Other Partigs
The former Japan Politieal Aesoelatien (Nippm Sel th-hei) which
threatemed to aplit into severel fastiome hes msw a
1
will remais wnited and vill take its plase as a maw pelitieal perty.
General Kasashige UGakI is still meationed as leader ef the party
eltheagh Chaji MachIDA, former president of the Minssite, is favered
by some.
The press carries the ammeumeement that a preparatesy esmsittee
made Prime Minister and has the reputation of being a resstiemery.
long astive in matiemalistie movements.
Appendieos
1)
Report om the Japen Socialist Party (Nihem Shakai-to)
2
Tramalatiom of Mamifeste prepared by Comesmist leaders
released from Fushu Prisem
3)
Policies of the Liberal Party on diplomesy, pelities,
and admimistration.
4)
Platfom and Policies of the Socialist Party
/
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.90)
padts I
MPORT C THE JAPAE SOCIALIST PAMNY
UNCLASSIFILD
In Mareh, 1926, the Labor-Parmer Party (Rame-te) was fesmed vith
under the leaderahip of Isoo AHE and Toychiko KAGNA.
center cceupied by ABE's group.
When the Secial Mass Party (Shakai Taiann-to) ves Pesmed en Jaly
Social Demoeratie Party and As0's Japem Laber-Farmer perty.
In Deeember, 1937, following the catbreak of the "Chime Imsidemt".
the Japam Proletariam Party wes dissolved and its leaders arrested, is-
eluding Kanju Kero. The Ia tter made the mecessary spelegiee and was
relessed.
In November, 1938, 1t wes proposed that the Socal Mass Party wmite
members of the present Secialist Party, eppesed this prepesal.
In kagast, 1940, Prinee KOmorE began his "New Strestere Nevement"
refused to participate in the mew pelitieal assssiatien.
In l9ho all laber miems were disselved and the preletariam mevement
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
After the resigmatiom in 19th of Gemeral TOJO ma Prime Mixistee. these
which several members of the former Labor-Jarmer Party sfriltated, Thalading
Shoichi MIYAK? and Se1om KAwAMATA. Also prominent in this group weve
Shinmuke KISHI, Minister of Commerce end Indastry im the TOJO cebinet and
Seki INC.
Formetion of Socialist Party
Following Japen's surrender, a group of 12 Diet members bemded together
to orgenize  proleterien narty. wost had been mupporters of the war. As
one of them expressed it: in Pritein, unliks Japen, members of Parliamens
were not errested even though they criticised the war. Purthermore, British
prisons are like smart spartments compared to the jails in Japem.
Since all labor groups had been disorganized before the begimming of
the war, it was the intontion of the group of Diet members to create ome
perty which would umite all factions. They set about to appeal for mapport.
Of the 12 as listed below, the first & nemed were formerly active in the
Labor-Farmer Party.
1) Jotaro KAwAKAMI, former professor et St. Peul's University, Meiji
Gakuin, and Kwansai Gakuin: alected to the Diet three times frem
Hyogo prefecture: executive member of the Social Mess Party.
3) Motojiro SUGIYAMA, founder of the Labor-Farmer Party in 1926, s
stated above.
3) Mitsu KONO. said to have cooperated closely with the militarists.
He is reported to heve worked for the Japanese Nary. im comjemstiem
with Shoichi MIYAKE and Haruji TAvARA, and to have reseived momey
from Navy secret funds.
4) Shoichi MIYAkE, referred to above: mupporter of Imperial Rale
Assistanee Association; member of patriotic Doshi-kai organisation
after resimation of T(JO.
5) Seion KAWA ATA, member of above Gohoku Doshi-kai.
6) Kiyoom1 TAMAN
7) Yonosuke KIKUCHI
8) Sho1chi MAKAWA
9) Suehiro NISHIO, former member of the Social Demeeratic Party, whe.
as ststed above, did not join the Imperial Rule Assistamee Politieal
Association.
10) Chosaburo MIZUT ANI, associate of Dkuo CYAMA in Rodo Nomin-te 
stated above. Member of the Social Mass Perty: Former starr member
of Ohars Secial Problems Research Institute; active in labor move-
ments for memy years. He was elected to the Diet frem Kyote and
wes head of the local branch of the Labor- Farmer Party (Rode Nemia-te):
said to be am opportunist and to have supported Gevermment pelley
during the wer but to a limited dagree.
ED

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.95)
-3-
ED
11) Rikiso HIRaO, former chairman, Japem Fammere Uniem; fosmer
(prodesessor of Domei: elosted to Bit rem Yom
focture simee 1936; said to hare mapported waiem of the Sosial
Mass Party with the fascistic Tekekai; has beem metive in
local farmers erganisations in Tamemeshi prefesture.
12) Jichiro MATSUmUT0. formerly head of the Maritime Uniom: hes
had considereble influence in Kyushu; said to be the last
1 bor le ader to oppose war openly in publie adtresses - evem
(fter KAT0's arrest in 1937. following the"Chime Imsidemt".
uring the carly discussions of the group of Dist membere, Sheiski
IYAKE end Seion KAWAMATA proposed that Count Rainei (Yorlyama) ARDMA
end Chu FUNATA be brought into the party. ARIMA was Minister of Agri-
culture in the KUNCYh Cabimet; is a member of the Hoase f Peers. and
wes director-general of the Imperial Rule Assistance Assesiatiom in
1940-41 FUNATA is director of the Tokyo Chamber of Commeres: be wes
A member of the Seiyaka1 Party and Diet member sinoe 1930 from Toskigi
Prefecture, parllamontary csuncillor of the Foreige Office in 1937 and
president of the Legialative Bureau in the KON0Yk Cabimet, 1937 te 1939.
It was proposed that Count ARIMA head the new party and that PUmTA
become secretery-general. This proposal aroused heeted diesessiem as
a result of which ARIMA and FUNATA were not asked to jein the perty.
Kanju KATO then proposed that Marquis Yoshichika TOmUGMA be imrited
to enter the party: this likewise wee rejected.
Un September ??, leaders of all former proletarien groupe were
called to a meeting announced in the nemes of Toyohiko KAGAWA. Isoo
ABE. and Iwasaburo TAKAN). The latter is a well kmowm statistieiam.
member of the Imperial Acadeny, former professor at Tokyo Imperial
University, and president of the Ohara Institute of Social Besearch.
Komakichi MATSUOKA was made chairman of the meeting which was attended
by approximately 200 persons. It is said that the fellowing desisioms
were takem: (1) to organize one united party; (2) to make the party
unmistakably a seciel mass party and therefore not to solicit the
adherence of persons mich as Marouis TOKUGAWA, Count ARDMA, and Cha
FuNATA: (3) not to reject the affiliation of persoms who mapported
Japen's war effort but to promise a clean slate for the futare; and
(4) to adopt a flexible policy toward the Right represanted by the
Liberel Party (Jiyu-to) and the Left, represented by the Comsumists
(in other words, to foin forces with either of these groupe om issses
where agreement is possible).
A Preparatory Committee was chosen, consisting of 19 members to
which 9 new individuals without Diet experience have been edded.
Toyohiko KAGAWA has been mede nominal hend of the committee; the real
power, however, continues to be exercised by the 12 original Diet
members.
Party Program
The Socialist Party. in eddition to its policies on economic and
fimancial matters previously annoumoed, has now presented a platferm
outliming its stend on lmbor, agrioulture, social affairs, womem's
affairs, and culture. The Party has also proposed a prepertismal
representatiem electoral system and specific refoms in the smpervisiem
of campaigms and elections.

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
The Party advocates establishment of a Labor Ministry, recogmition
of labor wmioms, minimm wage laws, the 48 hour week and measures to
insure employment. Its proposals for agrarian reform are still rather
vague. There is demand for "fundamental revision of the present system
relative to the treatment of arable land", for mechanisatiom of agri-
culture, state comtrol of fertilisers, and organisation of farmers' and
fishermen's cooperatives. Social insurance is proposed as well as
relief measures for war wonnded, bereaved families, and air-raid victims.
speedy housing construction, expansion of the radio industry and dis-
tribution of radio sets. The principle of equal rights for wemen is
upheld, including exrtension of equal employment rights to mem and wemem,
dissemination of political education among women, and the abolitiom of
prostitution. In the field of culture and education, the Party adreeates
encouragement of scientific research, adoption of the metric system, ex-
tension of the period of compulsory education, removal of State restrist-
ion on freedom of religion, and encouregement of the adoption of
Esperanto as an international lenguage.
Popular Front Proposal
On October 19 Yoshio SHIGA, one of the leaders of the Japenese
Communist Party recently released from Fuchu Prison, approached leaders
of the Socialist Party with a proposal of collaboration to establish a
Populer Front. After discussion between Shiga and several Socialist
leaders, including Chosaburo MIZUTANI, Rikiso HIRANO, and Mosaburo
SUZUkI, the Socialists decided against formal collaboration. It was
announced that since the Communist platform had not yet been mede public.
it was too early for the Socielists to enter a popular front movement.
However, they expressed the desire to cooperate after both parties were
well established.
Opinion on the question of a united front with the Commmists is
divided within the Socialist ranks. Quite a few are reported to favor
joining the Communists, including some of the lesser known members. mong
these are said to be Hideo YAMAHANA and Minoru TAKANO,
The two issues which make it difficult for the Socialists and
Communists to reach en agreement are the Emperor question and the question
of confiscation of private property. The Socialist Party is far from umited
on these questions. At the same time there have already appeared evidences
of disunity on these issues emong the Communists themselves. Some Cemmeumists
take a line similar to that of the Tenan (North China) group, holding that
direct attack on the Emperor system will alienate supporters, and that it
is first necessary to educate the people politically. On the other hand.
Kyuichi TOKUDA and Yoshio SHIGA, who immediately declared themselves
opposed to the Emperor system kpomrtheir release from prison, present the
view that unless the system is eredicated, it will be revived and will
again become dangerous when Allisù occupation ends or in the event of war
between the United States and Soviet Russia.
Certain observers are of the opinion that if a Popular Front develops,
it will begin in local districts. The first evidence is the formation of
a group in Nagano Prefecture, calling themselves the Ina Peoples Party
(Ina Jimmin-to). This organization inaludes Communists, Socialists,
members of the Farmers Youth Union and other local agrarian groups. Also
in Yameneshi Prefeeture both socialist and comesanist elements are reported
to be active. From such local movements there may srise the demand for a
Popular Fromt on a natiomal scale.

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.96)
-5-
Conclusiome
At present it still appears thet the Socialist Party mey be seeend
in strength to the Liberal Party of Ichiro HaroYAmA. However. if it om
avoid en open break among its diverse elements, it stands to gain widely
in populer support. It still lecks an outstanding leader. Some cireles
bel ieve thet if Ikuo OYAA were to return from Chicago. he would
immediately be accepted as head of the party. The Japamese press has
featured interviews which he has given to Americen correspomdemts and his
reputation in Jepan is apperently high. He has the great advamtage of
heving been outside of the country during the entire period of Japem's
military aggression.

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.97)
UNCLASSIFIED
Appondix II
Translation of Manifesto prepared by Communist Leaders befere
their releese from Tuohu Prison on Oetober 10, 1945
AN APPEAL TO THE PEOPLE
By Kyuichi TokUDh, Yoshio SiiIGs, and the others of the JapN
CJMMUNI T ARTY ho were released from imprisonment.
1. We express profound gretitude that the first step towards
a demoorstio revolution in Japan has been takon through the
occupation of Japan by forces of the Allied Powers dedieated
to the liberation of the world from fasoism and militarimm.
2. In respeot of the peace polioies of America and Britaim
as well as of the other Allied owers, suoh shall be matively
supported by us.
3. Our objective is the establishment of a peaeeful govem-
ment of the people bssed upon the popular will of the people.
tarougn the overthrow of the Imperial Institution.
The tyrennioel oppression of the military polioe type
besed upon e long-stending feudalistic ideology, the eruel
rule that treete people worse than domestic animals, and
the colonisl exploitation that followed assaults, tostures,
imprisonments and brutal killings, are the very outrages
that follow militery aggressions, that followed the aggres-
sion in Chine, the Philippines, and elsewhere, and then in-
trinsically ana compactly combined with wild phantasies n
world Imperial rule. These are indeed charecteristio of the
real nature or the Imperiul institution. Ssasememts made on
behalr of the Imperial institution do but expose their owm
deoeptive nature.
without the thorough olean-up of the oombined body of
this Imperiel syatem fron the ground up, that is to say, of
the nobility, the monopolistic capitalists and the perasi-
tical land-owners, the people oannot be liberated in a demo-
cratic manner, nor oan world peace be established. In effeet.
it will not be possible to carry out the terms of the Pots-
dam Deolaration.
4. traightened oiroumstanoes of hunger, cold, and homoless-
ness that have brought the people to the brink of the line
of death not only oannot be amelioreted by the present go-
vernment whioh is a combination of the Emperor's Court Of-
fioials, military and governmental ofrioialdom, and represen-
tatives of monopoly oapital, engrossed in preparing for the
revivel of militarism by preserving this treaoherous Impe-
rial institution, but are actually deteriorating steadily.
The complete wiping out of militerism and polioe rule is a
condition prerequisite to the establishment of world pease
and the deliverance of the Japanese race from extinetion.
This mission can be carried out only by a people's govern-
mont.
UNCLASSIFEDt

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCLASSIFIED
5. without the unilateral confiseation or idle lamd, eemmist-
kers and laborers by inoluding measures providing for wmd
ployment insurance and the 8-hour working day system, wis
out freedom of religion, the removal of contsols establs
for the benefit of monopoly capital and of the military
controls by whieh laborers and agrioultural workers and
diet through the right of vote for men and women over lo
years of age, and without the abolition of suoh diaboliom
as found in the criminal code, the Peace Preservation Lew, the
Publio Peace Polioe Law, and so on, the establishmemt amd
perfection of demooracy as sought by the Potsdam Deelaretien,
and even the establishment of world peace, may go up in empty
bubble and foam.
6. Suoh a mission cannot be accomplished under the leader
ship of those supporters of the Imperial institution whe we-
present the false liberalism and false socialism that flou-
rished by continual compromises with the authority of the
Imperial system under feudalistic despotism. Together with
the Imperial system, these men have lost the confidemee of
the peopl by using deception as a weapon of self-preserva-
tion. Moreover, they can wield nothing whatever that eould
possibly commend them to the confidenoe of the natioms of
the world.
7. It is we, the truly demooratio political offenders whe
have been freed herewith, who are the very ones to bear this
tremendous mission with the masses of the people, Moreover,
oreating a united front with all the organizations and ia-
fluenoes that have these objectives in common with us, a
peaceful government of the people may be construeted on that
foundation. And with a selfless spisit of sacrifiee, ex-
peoting no rewards whatever, we look forward to making pro-
gress in carrying out our responsibilities.
Translated by Paul H. Bumida
UNCLASOHIED

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.97)
APPENDIX III
UNCLA
Polioies of the Liberal Party on diplomaey, polities,
and administration, announced on October 25
The party's polioy deoided and announoed 1s substantial-
ly as follows, aocording to the Asahi:
Diplomucy: To urge the recovery of national unity and
international frith and speedily adopt various measures neees-
Sary for partiolpating in the international league; to recti-
fy fundamentally tne mistake in our polioy toward Óhina that
continued so many yesrs.
To Revise Conutitution
Politics: To revise the onstitution aiaing at the main-
tenanoe of the fundamentel national chereoter and the establish-
ment of & responsible politioal struoture; to reform the system
of the louse of eers and to expand tire authority of the House
of Representatives to make it the central politioal organ; to
establiah standing committees in both Houses for manifesting
the funotioning of the Diet fully; to revive the election lew.
enforoe women's suffrage, lower the voting age, rejeot the
interference of the Government in elootion campaigns; to eha-
rify respect of humen rights and the guarentee of liberty, and
speecily revise verious lews and reguhatlons for that end.
rdministretion: To abolish bureaucraoy and oarry out 
fundumertel refcrn in the present struoture of Governmont of-
ficiels; to make & greet reduction of official personnel and
improve the trertment of offioials; to revise the system of
oppcinting officlels, so thet the wey for appointing able mon
would be opened; to elect prefectural governors by publio
votes; tc effect fundeuentel inprovement of the autonomous ad-
mintstrction system for increasing efficienoy; to adjust and
simplify the routine effairs of locsl autonomous bodies.
Souroo: Nippon Times, ct:ber 24, 1s45.
UNCLASSHIEU

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.95)
UNCLASSIFIED
APPENDIX IV
Platform and rolicies of the Socialist Party,
announoed Ootober 20, 1945
(1) Labor
1. Establisiment or tne Labor Ministry. 2. Orrioial
recognition of labor unions; enaotment of oonventions for cor-
porations as well as s revision of the arbitretion act. 3.
Partioipation by workers in the nanagement of industries.
4. Establishment of minimum weges. 5. Enfosooment of mee-
sures aimed at ooaplete engageuent of all workers. 6. En-
forooment of 48 hour a week system.
(2) Farming
1. A fundamental revision of the present systom relative
to the tre tmant of arable land. 2. Speedy adjustment of
arable land for extensivo faraing. 3. meohanization of farm-
ing by mesns o" cattle. 4. Establianment of an Agrioultural
Insurance  ystem. 5. Control of fertilizers and foddera by
state. 6. Democratization of formine and fishing corpore-
ti ns. 7. evelopment of corporative assooiations with far-
ners forming the baocbones. B. Enoouragement of suitable
industries in rural end fisting distriots.
(3, ojsl Afairs
1. Establishment of Land Constructior and Social In-
surance Ministries. 2. ustablishment of lend planning and
speady resusoitetion of ureus devestated by air-raics. 3.
utablishment or spoial insurunce system involving unemploy-
ment, health, endownent, end educetion insurences. 4. Im-
prove ent of tho relief systen for wounded soldiers as well
as for the bereaved fanilies of the wor deed. B. Job prior-
ity to returnlng soldiers, uud onforoement of treining for
then to fuoilitute thuir return to ferning. 6. xtension of
relief to air-raid viotims as well is to the Japanese nationals
abroad. 7. solution or tns h uslng problen at the risk and
responsibllity of the state; speedy oonstruotin of dwelling
for war-viotins. 8. Expansion and domooratization of the
radio broadoasting industry, and distribution of radio sets.
(4) Woaon's affairs
1. Abolition of ali oustons and praotioes, systans, and
laws retrioting freedo of wonen based on tho principle of
equal rights for men and women. 2. Extensioin of equal em-
ployuent rights to men end women, and the abolition of all
sex disoriminations. 3. Dissemination of politioal eduoation
to women. 4. Prohibition of prostitution. 5. Improvement
and extensios of supplies and facilities ror infants and ohild-
ren.
(5) Culture
1. Free importation of universal oultures and construe-
tion of new oultrues for Japanese nationals. 2. Enhencement
UNCLASSIFIEDpir

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.96)
UNCLASSIFIED
of the spirit of social solidarity. S. Combimation  lmmor
and education and dissemination of the kmowledge of seeialsmm
niques. 5. Encouragement or soienees and teehniques, 
treatment to scientists and techniciens. 6. Adoption of the
metrio system. 7. Extension of the period for sompalsery
education, and a fundamental revision of the edueation system.
8. State grants for the training of able youths withomt meams.
9. Removal of all interferences by the state in the freedem
of religion. l0. Seouring of respect for and freedom of art.
1l. Encouragement for the adoption of Esperanto as a formal
language for international use. 12. Improvement of the Ja-
panese people's physique through encouragement of sports.
Souroe: Nippon Times, October 23, 1945.
UNCLASSIHIED

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.97)
SECURITY CLASSIFICATION
FORM DS-507
3-5-47
REQUEST FOR DECLASSIFICATION OR DOWNGRADING
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SECTION A
TO: 1. ORIGINATING OR ACTION DIVISION
EXTENSION
BUILDING
ROOM NO.
FE
2951
NS
3151
2REQUESTER'S NAME
DIVISION
EXTENSION
BUILDING
ROOM NO.
Wilson C. Flake
FE
4834
NS
3181
3. DIVISION OF RECORD:
DC/R, REF, PD, etc.
DC/R
SECTION B
ATTACHED
THE FOILOWING DESCRIBED DOCUMENT APPEARS TO NO LONGER WARRANT ITS SECURITY CLASSIFICATION
TYPE OF DOCUMENT
Despatch No. 31
ro:
DATE
The Secratary of Stata
10-27-65
FROM:
Goorge Atcheson, Jr. USPOLAD TOKYO
SUBJECT:
Periodic Re ort to Supreme Commander: Developments of Political Parties and movement
PRESENT CLASSIFICATION
for the weed ending October 26, 1945.
SECRET
SECTION C
THE CHIEF OF THE DIVISION TO WHICH THIS FORM IS ADDRESSED OR A PERSON DESIGNATED BY HIM WILL REVIEW THE SUBJECT
DOCUMENT AND INDICATE THE DESIRED CLASSIFICATION.
CHANGE TO:
RETAIN PRESENT CLASSI-
TOP SECRETSECRETCONFIDENTIALRESTRICTED
UNCLASSIFIED
FICATION
C
(Ifjreclasgified to a,higher classification explain
ide).
BY AUTHORITY OF:
devir fhmen 0292/52
OFFICE OF ASS'T SICT FOR
UAlJohnson
FAR FASTERLARTAIRS
SECTION D
INSTRUCTIONS—(1) The requesting division will complete lines (1) and (2) of Section A and all of Section B of
this form in duplicate.
(2) Both copies of this form, with one copy of the document or docnmeats to be downgraded or de-
classified, will be forwarded to the action or originating division concerned with the document attached where
practicable.
(3) The action or originating division will, if the contents warrant, declassify or dowagrade the
document by completing Section Cof this form in duplicate and routing both copies to the division respomsible for
maintaining the official record copy.
(4) The division that is the custodian of the record copy, upom receipt of this form, will file the
original of Form DS-5o7, change the classification on the record copy of the document iavolved, and forward the
duplicate copy of this form to the division initiating the request.
(5) The division which initiated the request will note the action taken, make the mecessary changes
in classification of documents in its possession, and then route the duplicate of Porm DS-s07 to the Chief, Di-
vision of Security and Investigations (CSA).
(6) In cases where the originating or action division wishes to initiate the declassification, the
entire form will be completed and routed to the division maintaining the official record copy.
SELURITY CLASSIFICATION

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.96)
ARTMENT
INCOMING
109
DIVISIO
STATE
TELEGRAM
CENTRAL
TELEGRAPH
ACTION-JA
INFO:
0-1283 -C
Tokyo via War
S
This telegrem must be
U
closely paraphrased be-
Dated Ostober 30, 1945
C
fore being communicated
ESC
to anyone. (SECRET)
LE
EUR
FE
Secretary of State,
FC
SPI
Washington.
SA
EUR-X
7he
PRIORITY
76, Ootober 30.
Genomml political summary. Re our number 3,
September 27 and number 37, October 10.
Political activity increasing but still limited
4.00/10-3045
to main centers. Parties taking form with Left Wing
conspicuous and Conservatives commencing organizatiem
but electioneering stage not yet reached. Public
interest growing in constitutional reform, war re-
sponsibility of old leaders, and regulation of
Zaibatsu P. Govt showing little ability to initiate
important reforms or to cope with growing econemic
aR740.00119
problems which are of increasing concern to the
Contrcllyf
public.
Demobilization and ocoupation preceoding well
and important SCAP directives have been issued on
education. press and foreign relations. Popular
reaction continues good.
1. The three new parties of some importance
(Liberal, Socialist and Communist) have progressed in
organisation elthough not yet show wide popular sup-
port. Liberal has been most vague as to pelioy and
its leadership appears neither effective nor genuinely
liberal. Socialist appears to have promise of large
potential following but has not been able to consoli-
Con
date its numerous factions. Its dctailed statement
of policies
SECRET
141945
1 File
051

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.98)
:10
SECRET
-2-#76, October 30, from Tokyo v1a War.
of policies though generally progressive, is weak
regarding trusts and agrioulture. Communists offer of
united front has been refused by Socialists and Party
now shows signs of internal disagreement over origimal
strong demand for abolition of imperial institution.
Left Wing generally is hampered by not having own
organs for reaching public, lacks organization and
experienced leadcrship, and fears that tlzction as
early as January 1946 may not give it time to overthrow
entrenched reactionaries.
2. of probable future importance are bcginnings of
organizational activity by Conservative groups. Chief
1s former Japan politioal aasociation (Seijikai) under
possible leadership of either Ugaki or Machida. Other
emerging parties still nebulous, are National Peoplcs
Party, New Japan Party and Natienal Alliance of Laborers.
Present tendency is for all parties to put forth programs
strikingly similar in general profession of demooratic
1deals, opposition to bureamcracy, etc. Both moderates
and conservatives are still suffering from unwillingness of
potential leaders to come forward as long as there is
possibility they may be war criminals.
3. Information from country districts is inadequate
but indicates they are generally still unaffcoted by
new political activity. However, some evidence of
Socialist-Communist popular front has appeared in few
rural districts. Rural sentiment seems mainly disillusion-
ment in war leaders and resentment against looal bureaus
cracy, food control officials, etc. Reoent heavy damage
by rain to crops in many areas may bring nearer time when
discontent will takc more tangible form. There are yet
no signs of organization or political activity by returned
soldiers but Socialists and reactionary alliance of
laborers have made program bid for their support and
other parties will certainly follow.
4..01d
SECRET

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.99)
111
SBCRET
-3.#76, Ootober 30, from Tekyo via War.
4. Old labor unions, particularly in trenepest,
are having oonsiderable success in reorganisstion but
character of leadership and political direction still
indefinite.
Bulk of population, however, is still apethetic and
primarily conserned with problems of food, clothing and
seriousness of coming economic distress and this is beins
reflected in criticism of the govt.
5. Constitutional reform has become subject of
active discussion. Although there 1s some support for
view (held by Shidehara, Minobe and others) that present
constitution can be interpreted flexibly, agreement is
fairly general that revision is desirable. There eppears
to have been some rivalry between the Cabinet and the
Konoye-Kido group of the imperial household and Knoye has
been bitterly attacked in the press for statements
allegedly made to the Associated Press intimating that
he had been charged with drawing up a draft and for
suggesting that the Emperor might abdicate. Public
opinion has opposed "secret" revision without opportumity
for publio discussion but has desired the retention, to
a fairly high degree, of the imperial institution.
6. Opinion regarding war responsibility has become
more specific. After criticism of Konoye, for reasons
mentioned above and because of his role as leader before
the Pacific war, he announced that he desired to
relinquish his title. There have been suggestions that
other peers should follow suit. The staffs of the main
newspapers have demanded resignations of direotors on
charge of war responsibility.
Asahi complied (although it is not indicated that
there has been change in ownership) but Yomiuri refused
and the paper has in effect been seized and is being
published by junior editorial ataff and printers.
Criticism of old Diet as a group sharing war responsibility
has resulted in about ten resignations.
7. Zaibatsu
SECRET

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.98)
112
SECRET
-4-#76, October 30, from Tokyo via War.
7. Zaibatsu havE also bEen objects of attack
in press and several junior exeoutives have resigned.
But present maneuvers, gentrally as in the cast of Yasuda
taking form of dissolution of main holding company and
announced resignation of "family" directors from
subordinatE companies may bE chiefly designed to anti-
cipate and if possiblE satisfy expected Allied rE-
quirements. Zaibatsu officials are reportedly being
cooperative in supplying infor mation to headquarters
investigating agencits. At same time there has been
press criticism of allegedly large cash payments
recently made by FinancE Minister to munitions
manufacturers in candelling war contracts. JapanesE
criticism of Zaibatsu though general is surprisingly
lacking in concrete proposals for dealing with problem.
8. Cabinet appEars to havE gained littlE popular
support or confidence. Only important actions it has
taken (releasE of political prisoners, Extension of
suffragE to both men and women over twenty, consideration
of ccnstitutional reform) have been Either by directive
cr published "suggestion" by the Supreme Commander.
It has not yEt produced EffectivE plans to deal
with the difficult but urgent problems of housing,
unemploymnt relief, improvement of distribution or
production of needed consumer goods. Littlt progress
has bEEn madE in reform of such Ministries as HomE and
WelfarE, which arE nuclei of reaction, or in reduction
of government personnel.
Education Minister is reported to havE prohibited
adversE discussion of thE Emperor in schools. ForEign
Minister made a public defensE of the Zaibatsu. There
is prtoccupation with the possibility of civil disorder
and the "Communist mEnace." Inertia rEsults from lack
of outstanding compEtence but a lso apparently from
inability to EscapE from a conservative bureaucratic
background and to make thE psychological adjustment
nEcessary to understand and implement merican intentdons.
At the samE timE thE govt is not wcrking against our
occupation and apparently prefers it to possiblE "Allied"
control with Soviet participation, concerning which there
is general apprehension.
9. Occupational directives (including abolition
of secret
SECRET

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.98)
13
SECRET
-5-#76, October 30, from Tokyo via War.
of secret police, releasE of political prisoners, freedom
of expression and assembly, requirement of edueational
reforms, Economio control measures suoh as alosing of
overseas development banks) have on the wholt been
favorably reocived by the pcople and their attitude
remains good.
Contributing to this have been the admirable behavior
of our troops and the fact that the attitude of the man
in the street continues to bE a mixture of relieved
surprise and bewilderment.
(This will be followed by a weekly political
summary; much briefer than this necessarily long
messagE. Department's suggestions appreciated).
A.TCHESON
MJF
SECRET

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT
INCOMING
DIV
OF
TELEGRAM
STATE
TELEGRAPH
1
LCTION: JI
INFO:
S
DVF-141-P
PLAIN
ESC
D
EUR-3
Moscow via War
FE
DC/L-C
Dated Novembey 5, 945
SFD-2
FC-14
alim
OIC
INI
OFI
SEcrEtery of State
PL
NOV 6-1945
-B
Wnshington
SPI.
IS
SI.
3762, Fifth
SI./GN
S1./M-2
RED FLEET NovEmber 4 dEvoted morE than two
894.00/11>545
colunns to dEscriptivE articlE on Tokyo by spEcial
E85
corrEspondent I. Baru Emphasizing poverty of
//-4-45 JapanesE, indioated by wooden shoes, and backwardness
Evil spirits.
CorrEspondent dEscribEd unfavorablE i.prEssion
nqdE upon Soviet visitors to JapanEsE Parliament, whose
members ExpressEd hypocritical sympathy for USA with
sanE Enthusiasm as they had four yEars beforE applauded
news of attack on PEarl Harbor. HE also sarcastically
NOV201945
dEscribed way in which Jap wEalthy classes had sought to
creatE impression during war that they werE sharing
C
hardships Equally with comnon pEoplE.
File
PLAIN
x01.r
197111915
ER

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.99)
PLAIN
-2- #o762, Fifth from Moscow via War
Baru Emphasized immEnsity of damagE donE in Tokyo
by Anerican bombing and in conclusion characterized
Tokyo as "conquered, ruined city which deserved fate
it had prepared for other cities of world".
Sent DEpt; rEpeated AmEnbassy Chungking 205 and
Tokyo for Atcheson.
MESSAGE UNSIGNED
JT
PLAIN

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.94)
TOP SEGHET
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
NOV7
SUPPEME COLDANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
6 November 1945
MEMORANDUM:
FOR
: Mr Atcheson, Political Advisor.
Ceneral HacArthur asked me to tell you that ne believes that it is
not advisa le for SCAP to associate itself with Konoye in this matter.
The Japanese loveenment nas leen irected through the Prime Minister to
initiate a eonstitutional revision anduntil thesovernment itself formal-
ly sulmits sonetl ing on vhe matter e does not believe we should be
involved. Konoye's c  nection now with the matter is derived solely from
connection with the Emperor's household, and has alsolutely no sponsorship
fron ere since he ceased to be the Deputy Prime Yinister. He suggests
tatu mpl to rofessor Taka i that you bave no authority to proceed
furtrer vith the matter and thet due to that fact it would be embarrassing
ses
for you to confer at this tine with him. It's quite apparent to General
Machrthur uhat vhatever henefits mi ht result fron the meeting that
Konoye is tryin to reestal lish himself as having Anerican blessing by
f94.
involvin ou in is roram. Cen-ral acArthur believes that any further
小
conferences ou holi w th him would involve you in grave personal risks
as the le eral nas no doubts that at the appropriate minute Konoye will
r lease he fact of your association ith him. This would place you 
COP SECRET E
dangerous positi n indeed befere ohe Anerican public.
R. J. MARSHALL,
MajorGeneral,G.S.C.,
Actg Chief of Staff.
RM/R
IORISCBELTUF
Anal.
Rev..
et
Cat..
OP SECRET EILE
DECLASSIFIED
E.O. 11652, Sec. 3(E) and 5(D) or (E)
Authority...7.0.1.
By. DR/S NARS, Doto 3-Z-75

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT
INCOMING
CENT
OF
TELEGRAM
TELEGRAPH
STATE
ACTION: JA
INFO:
S
ASB-248-Z
Tokyo via War
DC/R
U
No paraphrase noccssary
Datod Novombor 9, 1948
C
(SDĆ RET)
FE
Roc'd 3 p.me, 10th
NOV 1 7 1945
Socrotary of Stato,
Washington
1945
106, Novombor 9
894.00/11-
CA 54512
Wo should liko to bo advisod as to whether 
not you havo rocoivcd our first wookly political
594.00
surmary, which was our No. 76/of 30 Octobor.
ATCHESON
MB
NOV 1 9 1945
SCC RET
Contideatial File
DCR NE Unit
2.2
894.00
12.
11-945

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.94)
RTMENT
INCOMING
DIVI
OF
CENTRAL
TELEGRAM
TELEGRAPH
INPO:
S
HEC-523-P
Tokyo via War
U
No paraphraso necessary
C
(SECRET)
Dated November 11, 1945
ESC
FE
Reo'd 3:35 p.m.,12th
DC/L-C
ITP
DCh
CP
Secretary of State
achin
CD
ILH
Washington
LA
15.45
OFD
FN
PRIORITY
ES-2
FC-9
107, Novomber 9
OIC
A-C
From SCAP to WARCOS pass to Secstato info Co
1.-D
SA
China pass to Amembassy Chungking War pls pass to
SA/M
EUR/X
Military Mission Moscow, pass to Amembassy CAX 54607.
Political summary October 31 to November 8
894.
594.00
7
(refercnce our 79 October 30).
Tho govt creatcd a number of new organisations,
but in gcneral continued to talk raiher than act. Poli-
tical and labor activity increased markedly but
was still cheifly proparatory and organizational. De-
finite action was taken by headquarters to dissolve
the Zaibatsu. Complaints of economic distress were
increasingly vocal and reached stage peaceful mass
demonstration.
GOVERNMENT
894.00
Fearing criticism
DCK NE Uml
2.2
SECRET
1945
1D201

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.98)
SBORET
-2- #107, November 9,from Tokyo vie War
Fearing criticiam of inaction, Cabinet set up
War Calamities Rehabilitation Board", under Ichizo
Kobayashi who was made Minister without Portfollio, 
with statement that it would plan rebuilding of des-
troyed cities and provision of housing. General
estimate of probable effectiveness was not optimistic.
Conference of prefecturel governors, first since
surrender, was given "explanation of Cabinet's
administrative policies and measures to cope with
economics situation." Administrative Adjustment
Council under cabinet was announced to study re-
duction of govt personnel by one half. Considerable
importance seemed attached by Cibinet to body being
set up to study the war, with publicity emphasis on
"why war vas lost". An indication of presently sub-
merged tensions was an unsuccessful and unexplained
ettompt on life of the Homo Minister. Several Cabinet
Ministers showed their ties with the past by making
the traditional pilgrimage to Ise and Emperor vas
cheduled to visit the shrine to report end of war.
POLITICS. Cabinet
SECRET

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.97)
stoR
-3- #107, Novomber 9, from Tokyo via War
POLITICS.
Cabinet announcement that it was considering
"restrictive plural voting system" provoked criticism
by Liberal parties who, apparently fearing inebility
to win majorities, favored straight proportional
representation and claimed that proposal would
play into hands of experienced political manipulators.
Voters would select one name in districts having less
than six representatives, two in districts having six
to ten, three where more than ten. Cabinet's choice
of Parliamentary Vice Ministers was widely attacked
on grounds some had been members of War Cabinets and
as anachronism. Imperial rescript called diet session
for December 24 but explanation was that Cabinet would
ask for special session early in December to pass
election law and then dissolve. Diet generally was
sporadically criticized as reactionary and sharing
in war guilt. Konoye affair died down with the Prince
losing some face after statement by General MacArthur.
Constitutional reform received less public attention
although an
SECRET

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.99)
SLORET
-8- #107, November 9, from Tokyo via War
although an "Independent civilian group" to study
subject announced itself.
PARTIES.
The Socialist Party, at present the most promising
new group, held formal inauguration meeting, passed
a broad program (by methods open to democratic criticism)
adopted an official name (Socialist in Japanese, Social
Democratic in English), and chose slate of middle of
the road leaders, presumably in hope of uniting partyb
many factions. At least one instance reported of
local cooperation between Socialist and Liberal
parties. Minor parties proliferated, most appearing
to have reactionary backing (such as one supported by
Nakajima the aircraft producer) and to be offshoots of
former Nippon Seijikai. Large funds pcssibly available
to some of these parties make them unpredictable fictors.
Communist Party was expanding organization and interest-
ing itself in labcr controversies but actual strength
remained unknowm and probably not large.
LABOR
Considerable activity in labor organization,
including fishing
SECRET

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
-5- "107, NovEmber 9, from Tokyo via War
including fishing, maritimE, gas, press and tranaport
industries. Cabinet announced as intErim measurEs,
pEnding Expected revision of labor laws, a plan for
arbitration committEEs in Each prefEcturE with rEp-
rEsEntativEs of labor, mana EmEnt and putlic. HowEvEr,
ExcEpt among KorEan and ChinEsE laborErs thErE was
still littlE organized labor unrest. Formation of
a Japan Farmer's Association was announced but character
not clear. Kagawa and Couthrima sponsored preparatory
committEE to Establish National LEaguE of CoopErativE
Unions. Two women's bodies, apparently suffragist in
character without spEcific party affiliations, WErE
formed.
二DUC.TIOI.
Seven former profEssors of Tokyo Imperial Univ-
Ersity including well known Liberal Economists wErE rE-
instated. TherE was movEmEnt for similar return of
professors to Tokyo Univcrsity. SChP directive ordered
thE Elimination from schools of all tEachers associatEd
with militarism. A lawyEr's association rEfusEd mEmber-
ship to a former procurator who hac bEen notorious in
prosEcution
S:CRET

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.96)
SÈCRET
-6- #107, November 9, from Tokyo via War
prosEcution of thought casEs.
PRESS.
Domei was reorganized on a mutual basis as the
Kyodo HEws hgency and was distributing Associated Press
ServicE. An ostEnsibly sEparatEd commercial agency
was opened lovEmber lst. ThE fight bEtwEen ownErs and
staff of thE lomiuri continued with staff in control of
publication. Th: first strictly party organ to appear
was first issuE of Communist RED FLAG, intEndEd to bE
a daily. PapEr shortagE was an impEdimEnt to nEw pub-
lishing ventures.
ZAIBATSU.
AftEr thE SCAP dirEctivE of October 31 prEvEnting
transfer of their assets, thE four major Zaibatsu all
announced voluntary dissolution just beforE issuancE
of thE SCAP dirEctivE ovEmber 6 approving in principlE
govt plan for liquidation commission of thE holding
copanies.
ECONOHIC DISTHESS.
DEspitE official rEports of ricE crops 24 undEr
averarE therE werE increasingly numerous and pErsistent
public appeals
SECRET

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
-7- #io7, November 9, from Tokyo via War
public appeals for increasing food ration. The govt
did not appEar to discouragE thsEs appeals and therE
sEEmEd morE or lEss conscious Effort to mobilizE
aypeals to Allied sympathy. Humerous small but appar-
Ently wEll orranized and pEaceful dEmonstrations vErE
hEld by nEbulous organizations of "war suffErers" and
"hunger marchers" thE gEneral practicE being to visit
Allicd HeadquartErs and PrimE inistEr's rEsidencE.
Honetheless suffering was alrendy obvious and bEginn-
ing to bE acutE. Ther: were largE numbers of homeless
on thE streets and in subway stations in Tokyo and with
thE cold weather dEaths from ExposurE wErE occurring
Covt announced that it would makE a special distribu-
tion of swEEt potatoEs in sEvEn cities. UnEmployment
compEnsation and anti-inflationary mEasurEs wErE still
talk. Typical was press statEment by PrimE inister of
plan to build largE dams to relievE unEmploymEnt. In-
activity in housing was blamed on lumber shortagE: It
vas hopEd to incrEasE sta nant coal production by spEcial
rations for miners. ThE Expected arrival of thE fauley
lission and
SECET

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
-8- /107, NovEmber 9. from Tokyo via Jar
Mission and several statements from China on rEparations
provoked a gEneral unEasiness on subject which the
JapanEsE had apparently not had timE to think about
before.
End
This mEssagE has bEen rElayEd by WDCC to Military
Mission Moscow in accordancE with originator's request.
Sent DEpartment; repeated to Moscow as our No1
and Chungking as our No. 1.
ATCIIESON
JRL
SICRET

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.92)
PREPARING OFFICE
TELEGRAM SENT
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
MESGAGE:
Department of State
Charge Department:
Washhean
Charge to
1945
NOV 171
SUPHEME CONF APER
FO TE ALLIED POWERS,
TUKYO, (JAPAN).
129
FOR AT IDESON, ACTING POLITICAL ADVISER
Yeekly pol1t loal mary in your 76 Oct 30
rceiv1 ov (your l0e Nov 9).
DIVISION
RECEIVE
S
7
894.00
x

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OFFICE O L UNHITED STATES PCLITICAL ADVISERE
Tokyo, Japan, ovember 10, 1945.
4 A (mer Long
C. 48
RB
LeA
SUBCT:
Co:ments of Japanese  istorian (Seisaburo
1 ) on Japa ese Expansion and Nationalistic
Crcanizations.
aCA
34
S
Hos
EEVE
The monorable
The Secretary of Stute,
Washington.
1945
1945
Sir:
I have the honor to transmit, as of interest to the
Department, a copy of a menorandun of conversation, pre-
pared b a  lember of the staff of this office, reporting
the coi onts of a well-known Jaranese historian, Seisa-
buno SHIiCBU, in regard to Japanese expansionism and the
pant played in it b the nationalistic organizations.
D0
r shinobu, who was nentioned in the enclosure of this
ofice's des atch o. 4, Octobe" 31, 1945, is a leader
An the field o cconomic history and, in addition to hav-
ind had several or his books banned in Japan, has been
inprisoned.
Sumary. Secret societies played an important part
in Japan s nort ware expansion but conparatively little
in that to the sout. Regarding China, industrialists
at first hoped that control of orth China would check
Chinese competition. But &s the China war developed,
heavy industriulists bectke :uch more powerful; their in-
terests ner ed vith t ose or militarists and they suppor-
XR893.00
ted the southward policy whic became strong after 1937.
End of Surmary.
Resrectfully yours,
George Atcheson, VdAN 2- 1946
Enclosure:
Memorandum of Conversation, Hov-
ember 7, 1945 on subject: Japanese
Expansion and Nationalistic Organizations.
DCF NE Umt
Original and duplicate, with reverse
carbon, to the Department.
202
3
800
JKEmmerson: an1
(59)
Dno

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 48 of November 10, 1945 from
the Acting United States Political Adviser to the Sup-
reme Commander for the Allied Powers, Tokyo, Japan, on
the Subject "Comments of Japanese Historian (Seisaburo
SHI:OBU) on Japanese Expansion and Nationalistic Orga-
nizations".
LENORA UDU: OF CONVE SATION
November 7, 1945.
articipants: Seisaburo Sl.uBU
r....erson
Subject: Ja a ese x unsionism und ationalistic Organi-
zations.
r. Shinobu, wose biography is appended, called at
Ly of ice on  ove ber 7, l 45. The rollowing is a sum-
nary of re ars de by hin on the subjects indicated,
durine the cource o n oxtende conversation.
Japanese rolicy
Followin the Russo-Japanese var there were two forces
which arfected Ja a ese diylonatic policies:
a. one vas divected tovare international friendship
and was Lest ropresented by Baron SRIDEHARA,
presontrine.inister.
b.
The second was directed toward militaristic ex-
pansion and was guided and inluenced by such
organizations as she Bluck Drugon Society.
Japanese intorests in ongolia and Manchuria increased
after the Russo-Japanese war he the .anchurian Incident in
le3l was a logical develop.ent out of events between l904
and 1931.
One o: the organizations w ich hud considerable in-
fluence in these developments ws the onanji-Kai, formed
in anchuria in 1930. yohei UCIDA and Nitsuru ToYAA,
beth leaders of the lack Dragon society, were prominent
in the activities o the omanji-ai. The influence of the
organization spread fron  anchuria into North China.
The conflict which arose between policies of expansion
to the north n exnansion to the south orginated at the
time For osa cane into Japanese possession at the end of
the Sino-Japanese war. However, Japan's interests were
concentrated in China and llanchuria und the supporters of
the southward policy did not attain nuch strength. Japa-
nese capitalists did not find reat attraction in South
China and the policy of expansion to the south, which
finally became a predominant cause of war wiuh the United
States, arose out of interest in the South Seas.
One of the reasons for the China war was the desire
of Japanese industrialists to check the development of a
competitive textile industry in China. This group hoped
that Japanese control of North China would give them this
necessary

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.95)
AFPENDI
Biographic Data Concerning ir. Shinobu
Shinob. was bo n in Tokyo and graduated from Kyushu
Dmperial Universityin 1us4,majoringin Political Science.
In1936 he becae ditor of the Scientific Mistory Maga-
zine (Rekishi hagau). This magazine was frequentlyban-
ned by the censors and was forced to iscontinue publica-
tion the sane year. purin the next two years, Shinobu
devoted inelf to pesearch and writing on Jupanese diplo-
matic history. In ltse and loso he spoent a term in jail,
inaving been are stel ror ombers i in the Materialism
Research Society (Yubuusu-ron Monkyu-kai). In l942 he be-
came a me.iber or tie Japancse Rgricultural Research Socie-
ty and since th n has continued his research activities.
e is the author of the followin boos, several of which
have been ofricially banned by the olice: Diplomacy of
utsu (period or the Sino-upanese war), Recent Japanese
Di lomatic listory, Bioraphy of himpei coTo, Introduc-
tion to Rocent Nconomic . istory of Japan, History of the
Textile industry in the . eiji Period, History of Japanese
anufacturing, a Biocraphy of Sir Thomas Stanford Raffles.
J. . erson

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.95)
necessary check on Chinese competition. They therefore
hoped for peace with Chiang ai Shek which would afford
then econonic doninatior of orth China.
As the China Incident becale prolonged and Japanese
economy was 1 ced on a war basis,heavy industrialists
becane more powerful. The militarists and heavy indus-
trialists  ust share the createst responsibility for the
southward policy wiic did not become strong until after
l37. Ji ultaneo sly with a chanje from emphasis on light
to heavy industries, the policy of northward expansion
shifted to a polic of soutiward expansion. That the di-
rection ofpolicy d et been rinally deternined during
the years 1s3s to 104e is shown by the constant change of
Cabinets occurr ne urin that period.
Jupan's policy might se described as one of double
di lonacy re resenting tle influence of both militarists
und capitalists. The folloving is an exaiple. Japan sold
raw silk to the United tutes and bought raw cotton. This
cutton was maue inuo uxt les and sold to China. Profits
were invested in ur  ents. Japanese industrialists, de-
rendent upon trade with the United States and Britain,
wore at rirst lukewurn to militury adveatures but the pro-
rit otive led th into co.iplete unity with the milita-
rists. This has been a randa entul principle of Japanese
diplomacy since the Sino-Ja unese war.
Nationalistic Urjunizutions
Secret societies such as the Slack Dragon Society
played practically no role in the covelopment of Japanese
southward expaumsion policy. Their activities were di-
rected principally towurd China. owever, Fascist orga-
nizations whieh ve piso s nce the Monchurian Incident
have inculcated nationalisu inte he peo le and have ad-
vocated expansionist policies since thas tine. Among these
organizations re the  okusui-Yai, the  oku Honsha and
inkei Gakuin. ne of the leaders of the Tatter organiza-
tions is asatsu Y JoK.. The Japan Mationalist Hovement
(Hihhon Kokka Shugi Undo) is led by Munji KmiosMITA. Ano-
ther organization closel associated with the Ministry of
Justice is the Hationalist Society (Kokka Shugi Dantai).
Une of the nost infilontial institutions has been the Na-
tional Spiritual Research Bureau. This orcanization has
been res onsible for indoctrinetion of Japanese school
teachers. Leaders in this Bureau have been Masami KIHIRA,
Professor of Philosophy, Latsuichi TA oTo, formerly Pro-
fessor of Econonics,now a member of the Liberal Party and
Toyoo OGUSiI, Professor ofConstitutional Law and exponent
of Nazi philosophy.
John . Enmerson

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.93)
AN5
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
DEPARTMENT
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, Japan, .ovember 13, 194
0. 50
SUBTET:
Views of  ose Lubor Econonist (Tatsuo MoRITo)
on Constitutional Reform and other Current Jap
nese Problens.
HP
cin
The onorable
IONI
a
The ecretary of Statd,
3MID
27
L
Sig
DEC 7 1945
1 have he honor to transmit, for the information of
the Depurt ent, a cony of a e orandum of conversation
between  nember of the staif of this office and Mr. Tat-
suo u.iTo, re orting the views of this well known Japa-
 se economist, who is a member of the OLiRa Social Pro-
blems esearch institute, on constitutional reform, poli-
ticul developient and other current Japanese problems.
Attached to the menorandum are appendices giving biogra-
phic data on r. Lorito and information concerning the
Ohara Social Problens Research Institute.
Summary. More must be done to stimulate popular
1945
participation in constitutional roforn. The most
in ortant objective should be protection of the
peoples' rights. The Emperor system cannot sud-
denly be abolished because of the feeling of the
41
rural population but it must be thoroughiy demo-
cratized. Under revailing political conditions,
extremist groups, both Right and Left, may gain
ground rapidly. iberals and Socialists lack ca-
pable younr leaders. Tabor unions are still weak
and the far ers, who bettered their situation dur-
ing the war, are conservative. An industrial fu-
ture for Jupan is important not only for economic
rehabilitation but also becuuse the industrial
workers can rovide a de. ocratic buckbone to off-
set peasant conservatism. End of Summary.
Respectfully yours,
George Atcheson, Jr.
BI.
MAR 4 1906
DCF Halasure:
Etuslin
Memorandum of Conversation, Novem-
ber 7, 1945: Constitutionai Reform
天
and othe Current Japanese Froblems.
Original and duplicate, with reverse
(60)
carbon, to theDepartment.
800

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Despatol. No.:50 of November 13, 1945 from
the Acting United States Political Adviser to the Sup-
reme Commander for the Allied Powers, Tokyo, Japan, om
the subject "Views of Japanese Labor Economist (Tatsuo)
MORZTO) on Constitutional Roform and other Current Je-
panese Problems".
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION
November 7, 1945.
Participants: Tatsuo MCRITO, Staff Member of OHARA
Social I'roblems Research Institute
r. John X. Emmerson
Subject: Constitutionel Reform and other Current
Japanese Iroblems.
Mr. Morito, whose biography is appended, callod at
my office on November 7, 1945. Mr. Morito is an impor-
tant member of the staff of the OHARA Social Problems
Research Institute. After some discussion of the his-
tory and present status of that well-known organization
(See Appendix III), I turned the conversation to an ex-
ploration of Mr. Morito's views on current Japanese pro-
blems. The following is & sunmary of his remarks on the
subjects indicated.
Constitutional Revision
(a convenient opening was provided by
the recent newspaper announcement that
e group of scholars, including Profes-
sor TAlANC and .r. Morito, both of the
CHARi Institute, were organizing to
make an independent study of the revi-
sion of the Constitution.)
One of the tesks of the Japanese Cultural Federa-
tion which is to be formally organized on November 13
will be to study revision of the Constitution. The Cul-
tural Federetion has already set up three departments:
(1) Sociel Sciences; (2) Natural Sciences; (3) Art and
Literature. A special comnittee of the Social Sciences
Section will undertake e study of Constitutional reform.
Both the Cabinet and the Office of the Lord Privy
Seal are now giving attention to the problem of revision
of the Constitution. However, this is not sufficient.
It is imperative that the people themselves consider ser-
iously this problem. So far the government has called
only upon Constitutional lewyers to assist in this work.
Lawyers however are technicians and may not adequately
represent the politicel and sociel views of the poople.
For example some of these scholers have already stated
that the presert Constitution is flexible and does not
need revision.
The most important result to be achieved by Consti-
tutional reform is protection of the peoples' rights.
The present Constitution affords protection to private
property but ignores the acknowledged rights of the people.
The Diet system must be revised to make the House of Peers
a body

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
a body representing professions rather than priviloged
classes.
The Cabinet must be made responsible to the represen-
tative legislative body. The political and religious funo-
tions of the Emperor must be seperated. The peerpie rights
must be protected and the Emperor must become no more than
a moral symbol. His position must be similar to that of
the British and Scandinavian Kings. In fact the Emperor
himself hopes thet his position will be thus demooratized.
The feeling of respect toward the Imperial House is
still strong in Japan especially in rural districts. This
was proved by the way the war ended. Therefore the Empe-
ror system and the Imperial Household cannot be suddenly
abolished without creating greet confusion within the ooun-
try. The revised Constitution must prevent the use of the
Emperor by powerful groups. Sovereignty should rest nomi-
nally in the Emperor but actually in the people. The po-
wer of the Emperor should be controlled by the Constitution
and he should be able to act only with consent of the Diot.
He should not have any veto power.
Those close to the Throne want to protect it more oven
than the Emperor himself, who actually has democratic ideas.
Marquis KIDo cannot avoic moral responsibility for the war.
He will undoubtedly resign his position in the near future.
University Reform
Lr. Iwasaburo Trno has proposed the following reforms
in Tokyo Imperiel University:
a. Retirement of the president.
b. Chenge or the name of "Imperial" University.
c .
Reinst: te:ent of professors who have been
dismissed because of their political beliefs.
The following ere examples:
OUCHI,
TSUCHIYA,
WAL IMUhA,
ARISAWA,
KIMUR.,
YANATHRA,
Fumio YAMADA,
Seitaro AMAlA, end
Tatsuo MORITO
d.
Reform Economics Department.
(Recent press notices indicate that most
of the above reforms are actually being
carried out at the present time.)
Politicel Parties
The Liberal Party is made up for the most part of Diet
members and does not have great strength at the present
time

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
time. Under the prevailing conaitions of potential unrest
and unemployment, it is likely that extremists, inoluding
both Fascist and Communist elements, may inorease rapidly.
One of the serious defects in the new Sooial Domooratio
Party is a predominance within its ranks of old politioians.
There are few young nen and few intellectuals. Those Labor
and Socialist leaders who are now coming to the front have
been forced into inactivity during the past ten years and
leck mental and physical vigor. In spite of the new freedom
and political rights accorded to wonen, none were in atton-
dance at the recent Socialist rally in Hibiya Hall.
Trade unions are very weak at the present time. With
the disappearance of heavy industry the most influential
labor groups are disbanded. Labor is best organized now
in the transportation and communications industries.
The farmers generally bettered their situation during
the war along with the militerists, leading Bureaucrats
and war industrialists. Peasants are generally conservative
and the strength of agrarian movements is doubtful at the
present time.
The former Japanese Political Association controls
the majority of seats in the present Diet. It has strong
financial backing.
The principel policy differences between the Liberal
and Socialist Parties are their economic and finencial pro-
grans. The Soci:lists advocate state planning and national-
ism of meny enterprises wherees the Liberals propose free
economic activity. The Libersls advocate return of the
rsilroads to private menegement.
Future Development of Japan
It is a nistake to believe that Japan should devolop
an exclusive agrtrien economy. It is importent for Japan
that industry be permitted to revive. The industrial work-
ers ere the backbone of Democ racy while the farmers are
reactionary. The ide& of revenge renains strong among the
peasants. Therefore, industry is essentiel not only from
the point of view of the economic rehebilitation of Japan
but also for the growth of Democrecy.
If Japan is to develop Democracy, the positive impetus
must come from the Japenese people. The influence of Alliod
Headquerters will be principally negative, thet is to sup-
press militaristic and netionalistic elements. Cultural edu-
cetion is imperative especially for the farmers. A poli-
ticel, cultural and social revolution is absolutely neces-
sary if Japan is to become a peateful democratic nation.
John K. Emmerson
Enclosures:
Appendix I - Biographic Data concerning Tatsuo MORITO
Appendix II - The OHARA Social Problems Research
Institute.

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.97)
APPENDIX I
Biographical Data-Tatsuo MORITO
Morito wes born in Hiroshime Prefecture in 1888; he
graduated from the Tokyo First High Sohool and Tokyo Im-
perial Univeristy. He studied Political Eoonomy and So-
ciology end after graduation from the University spent
three months in jail beceuse of a thesis he had written
on the subject of the political ideas of Peter Kropotkin.
In l9l9 he entered the Chara Social Problems Research Ins-
titute in Osaka and has been conneoted with this organiza-
tion ever since. In l920 and 192l he spent some time in
Germany, France and England studying social and labor poo-
blems.
JKE/an1

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japan, November 13, 1065.
CONFIDENTIAL
NO. 51
SUBJECT: Political and Economic Policies of the Japamese
Communist Party.
Recording
2JA
151
LPARMINISIA
H3
9301FER
HCH
JAN 1 6 1946
The Honoratle
The Secretary of State,
3MID
H
Rashington.
KONI
S1
I have the honor to transmit a memorandum of oo
1945
versation, prepered by a member of the staff of this
office, reporting in considerable detail the views of
Eyuichi TokUDA, leader of the Japanese Communist Party
CM
in regard to the pressing internal politieal and eeo-
nomic problems confronting Japan. Because of its soope
and detail, the memorandum cannot be adequately summe-
rized in a few lines. The summary given below does mo
more than suggest the principal topics.
Summary. There is widespread hoarding of materials
and food. Wages have been drastically out, the
black market is soaring, profiteers are attompting
to invest in land, and: there is actual enoouragoment
of inflation. Stocks of food and matorials, inolud-
ing those of the Imperial Household, should be made
available to the public through popular organiza-
tions with authority to make searohes. Capitalist
sabotage of produotion and distri bution must be dealt
×A:40
with by similar direct action. Food production must
be increased by opening up such unused lands as those
of the Imperial Household.
xK
The Communists seek a united front with the So-
cialists in dealing with these economic problems but
consider many Socialist plans unworkable. United
Front on this basis is expected. Proposal for ulted
political United Front was not expected to be acoep-
ted by Socielists but was considered by Communists
to have had good effect in inducing Socialists to
abandon plank for "defense of national polity".
Conditions of Koreans in Japan still unsatis-
fectory. American Army disbanding of Communist
FILED
by represeasatives of employers. End of Summary.
R
161)
Cat
NTIGS
Dist

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
Respectfully yours,
Enclosure:
enorandum of Conversation, Noven-
ber 5, 1945, on "Communist Farty
Policy and Current Japanese Problems.
Original cnd duplicate, with reverse
carbon, to the Departnent.
800
J:Emmerson:ani

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.98)
Enolosure to Despatoh No. 51 of November 13, 1945 fr
the Acting United States Political Adviser to the Sap-
reme Commander for the Allied Powers, Tokyo, Japan, on
the subject "Political and Eoonomio Policies of the
Japanese Communist Party".
MEMCRANDUM OF CONVERSATION
November 5, 1945.
l'articipants: Kyuichi TOkUDA, leader of the Japanese
Communist Party
E. Herbert NORVN
John X. Emmerson.
Subject: Comnunist Party Policy and Current Japanese
roblems.
Mr. Tokude called at his own request to discuss
three general topics: 1) Communist Party policy and
present problems facing Japan; 2) recent strikes of
Korean coal miners; and 3) hidden Japenese Government
documents. Information provided on the latter subject
has been turned over to ap ropriate officers in the
Counter Intelligence Section. The following is a sum-
mary of .r. Tokuda's remarks on points on 1) and 2)
above.
Primery Economic Problems: Food, Unemployment, Land
The three immedi:te issues in which the Communist
!erty is most concerned are food, unemployment, and land.
Japenese capitelists are now sebotaging production,
hoarding materials, and purposely encouraging inflation.
Many workers were dismissed at the end of the war with-
out compensation. Employers hold rations destined for
the workers in sddition to their profits made during the
wer. Relexation of controls has boosted already rising
prices which mean edded profits for the capitelists.
Laborers' weg-s have been reduced to t their war-
time level. Unskilled workers now reoeiving ¥2 per day
and skilled workers receiving ¥5 were paid four times
those amounts before the end of the war. On the other
hand, food prices have skyrocketed. Rice in Tokyo is
selling for ¥70 per sho (3.18 pints); in Osaka and Kyoto
the price is ¥l20 per sho. The explanation for extra-
ordinerily high prices in ryoto is the fact that the city
was undamaged and has attracted large numbers of wealthy
citizens and nembers of the nobility.
orkers who received discherge ellowances upon dis-
missal have lergely spent this money by now. The unem-
ployed have drifted easily into black market operations.
Foodstuffs and other commodities now purchasable in ru-
ral districts for sale in the cities will be exhausted
by the end of the year. Unless some remedial measures
are taken, there is great danger that riots will break
out as conditions becone worse.
Members of the imperial family and the nobility still
hold large quantities of food and materials. While nation-
al forests

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
al1
al forests were nearly cut during the war, onormous
tracts of untouched forest land are held by the Im-
perial Household. Outstanding among these are lands
in Kiso, Ameki,in Izu, Ishikarikawa and Niikappu in
Hokkaido. Utflization of these forests would provide
adequste timber for the reconstruction of private homes
destroyed durin the war.
At the end of the war, he Japanese Army possessed
three years' stocks of food (rice), clothing, medicine,
tobacco, and other materials. Junior end non-oommis-
sioned ofric-rs seized huge quantities of these goods
and secreted them. Supplies thus far recovered by
United States Arny units amount to a small fraction of
the totel amount. The followin are specific examples:
Capt. Kunimesa, Director of Supply Department, lst
Naval Medical Arsenal, meguro, Tokyo, in company with
20 officers, seized l&rge supplies of drugs and set up
a pharmeceutical manufacturing company (Toyo Shinyaku
abushiki eisha). Sup lies are said to have been se-
creted in the warehouses of the Workers' Training Ins-
titute (Rodo Kunren-sho), within the Ministry of Wol-
fere. Other supplies were stored at the Tsurumi Dock-
yards in Kawasaki, near Yokohama. The numerous ins-
tances of hoarding sup lies indicete a deliberate po-
licy of the militerists at the present time.
There are actutlly sufficient food stocks in the
country et present. Landlords are selling only part
of their rice to the Governaent and are hoarding the
remainder. Farners are aware of this and are inoreas-
ingly reluctent to sell their own supplies whioh they
feel will be hir e y the privileged classes and not
equitably distributed to the general population.
Comnunist cono nic I roposals
1
The Communists ake the following proposels to
solve the food problem: 1) Place under imnediate con-
trol for the people's use hoarded foodstuffs in the
possession of the Imperial household, militarists cap-
italists, and landlords; 2) Institute a rigorous ins-
pection and tnorough survey of all stocks of foodstuffs
in the country. Such a survey should be carried out
by committees orgenized by the farmers; 3) In the cities,
institute inspection of factory werenouses by factory
comnittees and representstives of labor unions; 4, Re-
place the present neighborhood associations (tonari-gumi
and chokai) controlled by the bureeucrats by popularly
elected representatives wh: should form committees to
inspect likely hoarding pl: ces for foodstuffs.
To solve the distribution problom, direct contact
should be established between farmers' unions in the
villages and people's conlittees in the cities. For
example, Tokyo comnittee could arrenge necessary trans-
portation and deal directly with farner' groups in Chiba
prefecture. Such a plan has already been suggested by
the Communists and has been hsiled as eminently prac-
tical by workers' groups. At the Tsurumi Dookyards and
Ikegas Automibile Manufacturing Co., where Communists
have considerable

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
have considereble influence, tnis plan for the ins-
pection and control of noarded materials hes already
been put into operation. In the near future the plan
for direct buying from the farmers will be instituted.
The Comaunists do not deny the right of existence
to the capitalists but in view of the present wide-
spread capitalist sebotege, they ask thet the workers
be peraitted to exercise some control over production
and distribution. hen tr.e c&pitulists see labor par-
ticipatinf in the operation of lants, they will then
cease sebotege end cooperete in the production of ne-
cessities. If such occurs, the Communists will heve
no quarrel with them. kevival of production will ab-
sorb the unemployed and will provide goods urgently
needed b: the fermers, sucn as tools, fertilizer, and
clotring. Roturn to work is already well under way
et the Tsurumi Dockyerds end the Ikegei Automobile
Manufacturing Co.
The scarcity of fertilizers is a very sorious
problem facing Jenenese fanuers todey. Under these
conditions, the fermers must be eble to provide their
own fertilizers. They should be permitted to secure
raw meteriels fron the Imperial rorests which at pre-
sent is not allowed.
To increase fcoc roduction, now ecresge of areble
lend must be opened up. ior this : urpose, land such as
the Imperial forests must be either purchased or con-
riscated. ince it ignt re uire several years to de-
termine the smount of fsir compensation for such land,
it is urged trat the Governuent take ov r the land im-
mediately an? defer the cuestion of copensation to a
later dete. uch sction would achieve three objeo-
tives: 1) relieve tie housin shortage by providing
timber; 2) incre se food production; and 3) increese
employment. It is not proposed as a complete solution
but es a step toer: elleviation of the egricultural
si tuetion.
although the communists emend the eventual con-
fiscetion of lend nela by ebsentee landlords, they do
not insist upon this immedietely. They do demand lo-
wer land rents end permission to pay rents in cash
instead of in kind. iliterism will never be finelly
extirpated from Japan until the feudel landlord system
has been liquicated. uver 50% of present rice crops
are paid out to landlords in rent. In some cases, the
peasant turns over his entire rice crops as rent, keep-
ing for himself oniy wheat, barley or winter crops.
The Communist slogen "Overthrow of Tenno-ism"
(Emperor-ism) envisages the complete democratic revo-
lution. However, the present denands of the Communist
Party are to be carried out wi thin the fremework of
capit:lism through a common front of workers and pea-
sents. The Communist Iarty !s not asking for the over-
throw of capitalism.
The Social Democratic Party of Japan is making
promises

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
promises which are unrealizable. They suggest the pur-
chases of large estetes, their division and sale to the
peasents. At present land prices are extremely high
for the reason thet the Zaibatsu and others are anxious
to invest their war profits in land. At the same time
farmers are unwi lling to sell their land, and no prioos
cen be fixed at the present time.
hile the farmers may have made some profits dur-
ing tre wer, they actuelly ere not well off. Without
edequate fertilizers, the land has deteriorated. Far-
mers need tools end clothing wicn they can obtain
only at exorbitant black market prices.
The farmers heve little faith in the new Socialist
Farty and at the recent inauguration meeting opposed
the list of directors submitted. Laborers and farmers
are interested in the solution of the food problom ra-
ther than the coming election. They find the Socialist
Iarty unreelistic and without capecity to solve urgent
problems.
The Popular Front
The Comaunists envisege three stages in the esteb-
lishment of e populer front with the Socialists.
1) Cooperation witi. the lower strate of the Socia-
lists towerd soluticn of the problems affecting the
people's livelihood. Such a commong front has already
been achieved in the Tokyo-Yokoheme area where coopera-
tion between Socielists end Communists hes been estab-
lished and agreement reached among all laborers. The
recent strike undert&ken at the Tsurumi Dockyards was
successful and wes led jointly by Socialists and Com-
munists. The leaders of the Social Democretic Party
oppose such a policy but the lower strats of members
support it.
2) The Communists clan to make 8 united front with
the Socielists toward the sol tion of specifio prob-
lems: food, unemplovment, lend reform, wages, war cri-
minals.
I rospects are especi&lly hopeful for unity on the
question of the punishment of wer criminals. Socialists
and Communists will participate in a mass meeting to be
held in anda on November 7 to commemorate liberal lea-
ders who heve been victims of political oppression. On
December 8, anniversary of Pearl Harbor, it is planned
to hold a joint meeting at wnich time the united front
on the question of war crininals is expected to be com-
plete.
3) Abolition of the mperor system and establish-
nent of a Po∞ple's Republic.
Communist leaders put the above two propositions
squarely before the Sociεlist Party leaders in their
recent approach to form e popular front. It was known
that there

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
that there was considerable confusion and differenoe
of opinion within the Socialist ranks on the subjoot
"defense of netional polity (kokutai)". The Communists
did not expect the Socielists to agree to abolition of
the Emperor insti tution and establishment of a Peoplo's
kepublic. They made these proposals es strategy to in-
fluence the socialists to onit "defense of the national
polity" in their platform, and were successful.
The Comaunict arty pl:ns to proceed gradually to-
ward its aim of uprooting the Imperial institution and
expects to progress from the bottom upward, working
within the iower ranks of the Socialist Party. Thus
they hope to win support for their stand on the Empe-
ror and e Feople's Republic.
Korean Coal Miners' Strike
There hes been some unfortunate misunderstanding
on the part of Americen authorities with regard to the
recent strike of Korean coel miners in Fukushima Pre-
feoture. At the end oi the war, hinese and Korean
laborers, who hed been long oppressed by Japanese autho-
rities, reacted egainst the Jepanese and seized stocks
of food and other meterials. This was regarded as a
rict by mericen Army authorities.
The Communist !'arty policy is opposed to anerchis-
tic uprisings. It fevors protests and strikes carried
out by peaceful, legal means.
When e meeting of oreens and Japarese wes held in
the villege of Taire, it was evidently interpreted as
an instigetion to riot by Americen Army officers. It
wus, however, a politicel meeting. Interpreters were
selected by capitalists who wented to suppress the
strike and misunderstending wes ceused by inacurrate
transletions.
The Comaunists fuel keenly the necessity to in-
creese coal production. lowever, the living conditions
of the miners hi ve been such thet they must make efforts
to im rove them. Their only recourse is to strike in
order to better their Iivin standards and consequently
to increase production.
Mine owners have consistently broxen the criminal
code by beating laborers, forcing them to work, and in
sone ceses killing those who resisted. On numerous
occasions gendarmes have driven the workers at the point
of beyonets. At present miners must buy their food at
black merkct prices, since they are receiving only half
the rations alloted to them.
To improve treir conditions, laborers must be given
freedom tounionize themselves and to elect shop commit-
tees to psrticipate in the distribution of food and clo-
thing.
The Communists

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.98)
6
The Communists have instructed workers not to re-
sort to violence or direct action under any circums-
tances. Strikes have occurred in Hokkaido, Ashio (cop-
per mines), Yameguchi, and Kyushu (coal mines). Com-
munist representetives have proceeded to these places
to attempt to work out an understanding.
There now exist three orean groups in Japan. The
first is the Korean Federation (Chosen-jin Renmei). A
reactionary group of Koreens, most of whom were for-
merly employed by the Japanese Government, were expelled
from the Federation and have now formed an organizetion
called the Regeneration Society (Kosei Kai). They ao-
cuse the Federetion of being Communistic which 1s un-
true. While there are Communists in its membership,
it is not a Communist orfanization. A third group of
Koreans, described as "bourgeois", is the Rolier So-
ciety (Kyuen Kai). The Communists esk that the Fedo-
ration be rearded as the representative Korean or-
genization in Japan.
The Communists propose thet orean soldiers and
forced laborers should be repetristed to Korea immo-
di&tely. However, long-time oreen residents in Japan
snould be siven opportunity to close their business
affairs and to sell their property before being returned
to Koree. Furthermore, Koreans should be permitted to
take more than ¥1,000 out of the country which is the
present restriction set by Jepanese Government regula-
tion. Many Koreens are forced to sell their property
at a loss because of tnis limitation to ¥1,000.
John . Emmerson

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.96)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES OLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japan, November 17, 1945.
UUASSAL
NO. 60
3UBJECT:
Political Parties in Japan: Developments Dur-
1055
ing Week Ending November 17, 1945.
BRANCH
The Honorable
The Sechetary of State,
DEC18 1945
894.00
Washington.
DEPARTWENT OF STATE
sir:
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's des-
patch No. 53, November 14, 1945, and previous despatohes
trensmitting weekly reports on political parties in Ja-
pan, and to transmit for the information of the Depart-
ment this Office's latest re ort on the same subject,
covering the week ending November 17, 1945.
The principal development reported is the formal
inaugureti 7 on November 16 of the "Japan Progressive
446.11119
Party" under sponsorship of Diet members whose impor-
tant partic. ation in the Political Association of Great
Japen would appear, under the provisions of Paragraph
5-G of the Initial Post-Surrender Directive, to require
careful examination of the question whether the "Prog-
ressive Perty" is in fact a successor organization of
that Association. This cherge is already being made in
the Japanese press and would seem, in view of the broad
identity in membership, to be difficult to refute. The
subject is one of great importance because of the prao-
tical certainty that the Progressive Party will cnntrol
the present Diet.
The Appendix to the report is a detailed comparison,
CS/J
based on all available published information supplemented
by interviews with Party leaders, of the platforms of the
four parties (Brogressive, Liberal, Social Democratie and
Communist) which now give promise of major importance. 
It represents commendable initiative and a great deal o
work on the pert of Mr. Emmerson.
Respectfully yours,
DCR NE Un
UNCLASSIFIED
232
Goorge Atoheson, Jr.
Ra.
Enclosure
D1.1

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
Enclosure:
Memorandun, November 17, 1945:
"Political Perties in Japen:
Developments Duri ng eek Ending
Lovember 17, lu45."
(rioinal and duplicate, witi reverse
cerbon, to the Depertment.
800
Jervice:enl
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 60 of November 17, 1945 from
the Acting United States Political Adviser to the Sup-
reme Commander for the Allied Powers, Tokyo, Japan, on
the subject "Political Parties in Japan: Developments
During Week nding November 17, 1945."
CFFICE OF THL UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japan, November 17, 1945.
POLITICAL ARTT  JN: DEVELCRMENTS DURING THE
 ENDING NCVA 17, 1945.
Ineuguretion of the Japan Ero ressive Perty
The princiral development in the political party situa-
tion durins the week wes the inauguretion on November 16 of
the Japen ro ressive arty (Jipoon Shimpo-to), formed of
elements of tne defunct Politicel Association of Great Japan
(Dai Nippon eiji-kai), the government-sponsored totalitarian
perty wnich was the only legellv permitted political organi-
zation during the greuter part of the war.* The Seiji-kai
held 380 of the 466 Diet seets. ore than 200 of these mem-
bers heve now formally affiliated with the Progressive Party.
It therefore holas e cominent position in the present Diet.
.lthough no president or the party hes yet been chosen,
its officers i.clide  I Tukao, weli-known liberal parlia-
menterien,  n: irnan or tne xecutive Jommittee, and TSURUMI
Yusuke, publicist and I'reguent lacturer in the 'nited Stctes,
t Ceneril Secretary. Ihe party repr sents en emalgamation of
the L.Cl:ILA and nJ1' factions or the former Minseito and
jeiyukei parties, nd the recently formed Construction League
mede up of younger Liet members. everel members of the Lower
house who were particularly ective in the Imperiel Rule Assist-
ance Associ:tion and wh were closely associeted with the war
cebinets hove been or cre being (cccording to private state-
ments by Tsllxu..i) excluded fron the perty. Among these ere
CA Tadac, J hikuhei, ED. Yonezo, end TsUGu c Kuni-
tosni.
.ccordin to one of the perty leaders, the question of
wer responsibility wiil cecide the perty's fate in the com-
ing elections. fforts tre bei made to weed out those
most flagrently responsible but it is retlized thet the perty
nust face considereble criticism from the public. However,
the perty leeder interviewed predicts thet "if the question
of wer responsibility is not bressed too strongly," the Pro-
gressive wi 11 win ap roximately 200 serts in the elections,
es egainrt his estimete of l00 to l20 for the Liberels and
50 for the Socjlists.
The philosophy
'Unless it can be shown thet the Progressive Party is not
the "successor" to the Political Associetion of Greet Japan,
it would seem to fell within the terms of the Initiel Post-
ourrender Directive to SCtP which provides for the dissolution,
emone others, of the "Political Associati on of Greet Japan"
and "any successor organization." (Paragraph 5-G.)
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
The philosophy or tne party is conservative, although
r. TukuiI Yusuke nis st ted in an interview that the mem-
bership is being made to "swaliow some very redical policies"
by emphesis in uhe pletrorm on strict adherence to the mon-
archic system. The irogressive  erty apparently differs from
the Libers] Party principelly in its willingness to institute
e limited plained econony tnd a certein amount of control.
The Liberels ere sai to follow more strictly the Nineteenth
Century laissez-faire economic concention, wrile the Social-
ists demanu nationalizetion o: principel industries.
The policies of the Progressive Farty heve so far been
ircompletely stetd. It is cleer Inet the Diet politicians
heve been devotins nost of their ti :e to organizational man-
euvers ratrer than to the cureful study of political issues.
They ere fer benind †ne Socialists, who heve worked out a
fuirly definite program.. The Irogressives heve now appointed
connittees to unoertake stuoies in parliamentary reform,
enti-inflation policies, relief, and tgrerien problems.
Other Perties
Some disstisfaction of locel trancnes of the ocial
Democretic lerty with central coniittee officers hes been
reported, but the ocialist Party continues to be one of
the most active.
The Communists &re encouregine the formation of chapters
of a "Teople's Emencipution League" throughout Jepan. This
is pert of their policy to c operat with socislists and
other groups to esteblish a people's front on certein specific
issues, such as food, unenployment, end sgrerian reform.
They do not introduce the mperor iuestion into this organi-
zation, which, incidc.tally, tesrs the sane nane as CKNo
usu u's group in vorth hin: (Jinmin aiho Renmei).
The orese nrs ennounced the exi: tenee of th:rty-three
political partis to te.
John. K. wanerson
:oreisn ervice fficer
apendix:
Irinciples end .oliei  of
the Four Major Parties.
APPNDIX

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
AP ENDIX
FLI CIPI  AND POLICIE OF TE. FOUR AJCR POLITICAL
PARTIES
Principles
The four mejor folitic:l parties (!rogressive, Liberal,
ociel Denocretic and Communist) unanimously support striot
execution of the terms of the Totsaem Declsration, economic
reforms, democratic reforms in government, and respect for
individual rigits. They unanimously oppose militerism, fes-
cism, bureaucrtism. They fevor internetional cooperation
to achieve world peece.
Divergence occurs in tne matter of Jepan's fundamental
politicel and econ mic philosophy, The Progressive and Li-
berel Iarties strorgly sunport the mperor system and Japan's
present national polity (kokutai). The Socialist Party is
silent on this point ud the Com unists openly ask for abo-
lition of the Imperia! in titution and estsblishment of a
reople's kepublic. both rogressives and Liberals fevor free
economic enterprise; the  ocialists : dvocate a socialized,
plenned economy, and the Comunists, people's perticipation
in management of indu: try and confiscation of certain agri-
culturel lend. They do n t yet propose abolition of private
property. Both  rogressive &nd Liberal Parties denounce Com-
munisn.
olicies
There follows &n outline, by subjects, of the principal
policies of the four ae jor perties based on their published
pronounccients end pletforns, whien neve been translated for
the purpose. of this rerort.
I. PCLITC AUSFUR CE RE TION
Progressive Perty
Support of he ntionel polity (kokutai)
which repres-nts the unchangeeble faith
of the people.
2.
absolute opposition to omaunisn.
3.
Support of constitutiont 1 monerchy, espe-
cislly necessary et ε time like the present
when irresponsible, rad:ctl idees are ram-
pent.
4.
keforn of tne Constitution in order to es-
tablish democratic government based on the
complete will or the people.
5.
Basic reform of the Diet system and other
political orgens to achieve e responsible
government
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.97)
- 4 -
governnent with political power centered
in the Diet.
8.
Frecdom of speech, essembly, essociation,
end religion.
7.
hespect for the fundementel right of the
individual.
0.
Removel or oostecles to the full expres-
sion of tae people's will.
Liberal Party
1.
upport of Jupen's nttional polity (koku-
tai) and the Imperial institution.
2.
Revision of the Constitution to permit
establisnment ol responsible representa-
tive government, with the Diet as the cen-
ter.
3.
Reform of botn ouses of the Diet; increase
in powers of the ouse of Representatives.
Esteblishment of pernnent comoission to
exerci se functions o1 Diet during recesses.
4.
neform of e! ection laws; establishment of
wonen suffrage; election; non-interference
of officiels in elections; free exercise of
suffrege rignts.
5.
Revision or repeal of laws restricting or
ebrogatins rights of individuels.
Social Democratic Party
1. Democretizetion of the Jonstitution based
on the complete will ot the people.
2.
Cle rificetion or the causes of the war and
the responsibi lity therefor.
3.
Abolition of the Privy Council and the po-
wer or the lder Statesmen (Jushin or for-
ner Prime inisters).
4.
stablishment of bice eral iegislature
based on loctl nd professional representa-
tion.
5.
astaclishment of pro ortional representa-
tion and large electoral districts; ex-
tension of suffrege and electorel rights
to men and women l5 years of age and above.
6. Abolition of the peerage.
7. xtinction of militarism, fascism, bureau-
cratism;
UNULAOOIILD

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.96)
- 5 -
cratism; prevention of their revival.
Communist Party
1.
Abolition of the Imperial institution and
establish rent of a People's Republic.
2.
Dissolution of all anti-democratio organi-
zations; punishment of wer criminals and
those wip neve violated civil licerties.
3.
istablishment of a onstitution by the
people, not by ift from the Emperor. Abo-
i: tion of the Frivy Council, House of Peers,
. ouse of epresentatives. Establishment of
de nocretic unicameral legislature. Aboli-
ticn of seerege and all rennents of feudal
privileges.
4.
Releese of and relief for all victims of
police oppression end politicel offenders.
Compensation by Government to all such
surferers.
5.
Abolition of all oppressive laws including
articles in Criminal Code specifying "crimes
egeinst the Imperiel riousehold". Elimina-
tion of all discriminetory treatment based
on race or nationality. Abolition of regu-
lations for control of people's movements.
ö.
reedo , of speech, assembly, publication,
religion, association, strikes, parades.
7.
Suffrage ana electoral rights to all men
and women 18 yesrs of age and above regard-
less of domici le or property. Elimination
of govern nent interference in elections.
8.
lininatin of militeristic and imperielis-
tic laws, culture, and educetion.
9.
ornation or epeople's front througn the
union of all democratic forces.
II. ADMINI..TRATICN
Frogressive arty
1.
Elevation of the status of prefectural gov-
ernors: nrevention of development of fasoist
tendencies.
2.
Correction of the mistaken attitude of judges
based upon op ortunistic following of public
opinion.
3.
tundemental reform of bench end bar to bring
about justice besed on reelity.
Liberal Party
UNCLAUSIHILD

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.96)
-6-
Liberal Party
1.
Abolition or buresucratism; fundanental
reform of civil service to increase effi-
ciency.
?.
rastic decretse of Governlent employees;
imprevenent in t.eir trertment.
aerorn of selection system for civil ser-
vice ofricials.
Election of orefecturel governors.
5.
rundamental rerora of system of local auto-
nomy.
simplificetion of orlicie! procedure in
locel autonomous Government units.
social vemocratic Party
1.
rundalental reforn of administrative and
judiciel orgens and of bureaucracy.
Democratizetion of locel autonomy systom;
election of village, town, city, and pre-
fectural heeds.
[II. FOREIGN PCLICY
P'rogressive erty
1. trict fulfi l uent of the Potsdem Decla-
rttion.
2.
uliminetion of ultrf-netionalism based on
exclusive fe lin of superiority.
3.
Revivel of moral diplomacy; establishment
of mutual trust anong nations and interna-
tipnal justice participrtion in world peace
orsanizati ons.
Liberal :arty
1.
Independent fulfill ment of the rotsdam vec-
larati n.
2.
fforts to restore international faith in
Japan. Proper steps for adherence to world
peace organizntion.
3.
Complete eradication of errors mede in po-
licy toward China.
Social Democratic Party
1.. Abandonment of secret diplomecy; establish-
ment of
UNCLASOHNILU

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.98)
-7 -
nent of people's diplomacy.
2.
rulfillment of internationel obligations
based on the Potsaem Decleretion.
3.
Ferticipetion in world peace organization
and in international labor organ; recovery
of Japan's internetionel position.
4.
-steblishment of cooperation with sofalist
end proletarian parties in other countries.
5.
frorts toward permanent peace in a world
free fro exploitation, oppression, and mi-
litarism.
Conmunist Party
i. itrict execution of the terms of the Pots-
dam Declerstion.
2.
Support of the peace policies of democratic
countries.
IV. ECGNOY
Progressive Party
1.
Guarantees or the livelihood of the people.
New economic struc ture besed on equality.
steblishment of prosperous production and
rsir distri bution under system of complete
free enterorise and balanced industry.
2.
steblisument of fized daily ration of 3
to (1 go-0.318 pints) of suitable nutri-
tive quality.
3.
.bolition oureaucratic food rationing con-
trols. st:blisnment of independent coope-
retive orsenization for production end con-
sumption.
4.
ustablisiment of contribution system which
will sive preferential guerantees for food-
stuff's in joint pos: ession of farmers.
5.
referentil retions of essential goods to
those faraers fuifillins contribution re-
quirements.
6.
Release of lend on an ecuitable scale for
settle.uent by farmers.
7.
Increase in production of merchandise and
mobilization of netionel treasures and other
works of art to oe used for exchange in im-
ports of foreign rice.
Liberal Party
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.96)
-8 -
Liberal Party
1.
Abolition of all controls except those vo-
luntery controls which are absolutely indis-
pensable.
2.
Imedi te repeal of General Mobilization Law
and al? laws an: reguletions based on it.
3.
Immediete repeel of the lew controlling lum-
ber end wood vroducts.
Abolition of the system of economic police.
5.
-fforts for quicx adnerence to an interna-
tional trale orzani zation. Encouragement
of export industries, such as raw silk, tex-
tiles, industriel art goods.
6. .evival of lignt industries; promotion of
heavy industries.
7.
encurrgenert of snall and mediim-scale in-
dustries.
jociul Democretic Party
1.
ustablishment of a socialized, planned eco-
noay. Abolition of militaristic and bureau-
cratic controls.
3.
sttblis.ment of a upreme scononie Council.
3.
vati nelization or he steel, cosl mining,
syntnetic fertilizer, electric power, and
otner vital industries.
4.
Aftionelization of banks, trusts, and insu-
rance coapanies.
5.
Dempcratizetion of the administration of
State nonopolies and Governnent operated
telephones, telegrapns, railways, and pos-
tal systen.
6.
nsist: nce ant encourgenent to peacetine
industries.
7.
Cooperative unionization of small and medium-
scale industries.
8.
Encouragenent of the organization of consu-
mers cooperatives.
9.
Increase or the staple food ratlon; reform
of the ration systen.
Communist Party
1. Management of principal industries by the
workers.
UNU

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.96)
- 9 -
workers. Establishment of control by the
People's Republic. Abolition of all con-
trois by militarists, bureaucrats, and mo-
nopolistic capitslists.
Freedon for small and mediun-scale industries.
3.
Opposition to Governuent compensation to
munitions industries.
4.
Eliainetion of the bureaucretic stagnation
of the trensportction and communications
industries by fundanental reform accomplished
by placing nanage ent in the hands of the
workers.
5.
astabiis..ment of people's management of
foodstuffs and other daily necessities.
6.
Democrstic solution of the land problen.
7.
Inc rease of supply of foodstuffs and other
neces ities tarough trede and comnerce car-
ried out under People's Republic.
V. FI ANCE
Irosressive Party
1. 'olicy to combet inflation.
a. Increased productior. and establishment
of balance between supoly and demand.
b.
Finsnclal retrenchment and imposition
of property tax and war profits tax.
C.
Issuence of new currency at par. Res-
treint of purih sing power.
Liberel Perty
1. Immediece steps to stop inflation.
a. rreeving or Goverament compensation to
er industries.
b.
Extension of due detes of wer bonds;
lowering of interest on war bonds.
C.
Absorption of currency by sale of Go-
vernnent property and of Government
industries divided into smell units.
d.
Return to s  sten of sale of Government
bonds by public subscription.
●.
Restriction of currency issue.
f. Reform
UNOLASSIFIED

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.98)
-10-
UNCLASSIHED
f. Refor! of pension system.
g.
reduction of Government administration
expenditures.
n.
Increese production end effect importa-
tion of food and neces ary articles for
the people's livelinood.
2.
Correction or unfeir tex burdens created
during the war.
e. Reforn present tax bureaus and oonduct
new investigetion into property and
income texes.
b. Effect fair revision of taxation on the
basis of the ebove study.
Sociel Democratic Party
1. Confisoation of war profits.
2.
Discontinuance of payment of Government
compensation to munitions industries; estab-
lishment of comnission to investigate assets
of such industries.
3.
Discontinuance of special military expendi-
tures; investigetion of the uses to which
such funds nave been put.
4.
∴bolition of malignant inflation for which
propertied classes are responsible.
5.
Establisnment of property tax; increase in
income and inheritance taxes.
6.
Abolition of pensions, ennuities; establish-
ment of national pension system.
7.
Opposition to ssles of State property or
State owned industries to settle national
debt; support of principle that burden of
national debt rests upon property owners.
8.
Establishment of new monetary system; ste-
bilizetion of currency.
Communist Party
1.
Amalganation of all banks in one national
bank under people's manogenent.
2.
Opposition to inflation policy which vic-
timizes laborers.
3.
Settlement of public debt problem, respon-
sibility for which rests on Emperor, capi-
talists, and landlords.
4.
Cessation
CULASSIFIED

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
-11-
4. Cessation of Government subsidies to capi-
talists and landlords.
5.
Use of savings resuiting from cessation of
Imperial Household expenditures, taxation
of Zaibatsu and weelth classes, end from
confiscation of war profits, to give relief
to unemployed and needy.
6.
Reductio of taxes on laborers, small and
middle cis ss femers, end poor urban dwel-
lers.
Cancelletion of consumers' and other poople's
taxes.
8.
Reduction of rents and electricity rates
for laborers; ebolition of rents and elec-
tricity charges for unemployed.
9.
Organization and expansion of associations
of unemployed and of renters.
VI. LABOR
Progressive Party
1. Promotion of cooperative organizations
and the soliderity of lebor and capital.
Liberal Party
1.
hecognition of the legal status of labor;
improvement of laboring conditions.
2.
Enectment of sociel legisletion to guaran-
tee status of laborers and inmediate con-
sideration of other appropriate measures.
Social Democratic Party
1. Establishment of a Ministry of Labor.
2.
Official recognition of labor unions;
enactment of collective agreements lew;
revision of trede disputes act.
3.
Participatio by laborers and eaployees in
manegement or industries.
4. Est:blishnent of a minimun wage system.
5.
Estsbl ishment of the 48 hour work week.
Establishment of unemployment policy to
assure full employment.
Communist Party
1. Drestic reduction in working hours.
General

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.97)
-12-
General reduction to 7 hours or less; ma-
ximum of 8 hours per day and 44 hours per
week.
2. rundanental reforn in working conditions.
3.
Realization of full employment by roducing
hours to absoro unemployed.
4.
rreedo: of organization and activity for
labor unions.
5.
Esteblishment of principle of collective
barxaining.
心。
Opposition to present feudalistic employ-
nent system and slave-like working condi-
tions.
7.
ronibition of employnent of women and
children in dangerous occupetions; elimina-
tion of double wage standerd for women and
children; establishment of principle of
"same work, sene wages".
8.
General increase in wages. Establishment
of system of obligatory ainimum wage.
9.
Opposition to cenitclistic rationaliza-
tion of industry.
10.
Prohioition of lebor of children 14 years
old end younger.
11.
Guarantee of one day rest ner week, two
we ks vaertion per yeer, with pay, to all
workers.
VII. AGRIOLTURE
Progressive arty
1.
Promotion of an industriel policy to
echieve harnony end soliaerity among
agriculture, industry and com:erce.
Liberel :arty
1.
Reconstruction of devastated arees; deve-
lopment of production in nolutain districts
and fishing aress. constru tion of ports
end roeds.
2.
Improvenent of edncstio: in farming dis-
tricts; improvement in livelihood of far-
mers.
3.
Undertaking on lerge scele of reclamation
and cultivation of new rice fields and
arable land, at Government expense.
4. Immediate inprovenent of the fern land
system;

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.97)
- 13 - ULU
system; extension of private ownership of
farn lands; equalization of land rents.
5. Development of stock farning; amelioration
of feed fecilities.
Developaent of croduction of fertilizers,
agriculture! iaplements end necessary
neterials.
7.
Amelioration r the contribution system
for rice growers; r&tionalizetion of ap-
portionment systea; increase in prices for
rice sold under contribution system.
8.
usteblishment or syste: for development
of unused resources.
9.
P'roper neesures to in ort necessary quan-
tities of rice end other greins.
10.
Abolition of Government controls over
fresh fruits, vegetables, and marine pro-
ducts.
11. construction or rishing vessels, fishing
ports, ocxs; guarentee of necessary ma-
teriels for fisning industry.
12.
heforn end revival of agricultural, forestry,
and fishing orzanizetions on principle of
liberalism.
Social Democratic Perty
1.
Conplete reforn or egrerien system; rational
division o: land; drestic reduction in land
rents.
2.
Large sca!e reclemetion end cultivation of
fernlands.
3.
mechenization of agriculture and encourege-
ment of stock raising industry.
4.
ust:blishm:nt of egriculturel insurance
systen.
5.
tate menngeent of fodders and fertilizers.
6.
Democratizetion o! fermers' end fishermen's
orgenizations.
7.
steblishment or cooperetive unions with
tenents es the basic, controlling force.
8.
Iromotion o industries in farm, mountain,
and fishint villages.
Communist Party
Confiscation

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.96)
-14-
UNCLASSIIED
1. Confiscution without compensation of all
land held by absentee landlords, all unused
forest and nountain land, and its free dis-
tribution to farners.
2.
Cencellation of farners' deots to banks
and usurers.
3.
zradication of system of feudelistic ex-
ploitation of fishermen.
4.
reduction and exeaption of tenants' land
rent payments; opposition to dispossession
of tenents by landlords.
5.
Coposition to contribution systen for food-
stuffs imposed by bureaucretic Government.
ustablishment of contribution system in
denocratic manner by fermers' organizations,
with rationing of necessary erticles to
f'armers.
ó.
Breaking up of present farmers' associations
and all special bureaucratic rights held
in egricultural villages by the landlords.
usteblishment of independent farmers' unions.
VIII. SOCT.I FROBLEM
Progressive Party
1.neapolyment
e.
Esttblisnment of employment for all.
b.
"ncouregenent and eid to private ind-
ustries operated as free enterprises
(especieliy smell and meium-scale
industries.
C.
Undertaking large scele projects under
netiont? development plan, such as
corstruction of roeds, railroads, dams,
ports, river development, afroresta-
tion, etc.
2. helief
a.
Imnediete re noval of control lews over
lumber and building meterials.
b.
Release of lerre dwellings and vacant
buildings for wer sufferers.
C.
Transfer of militery clothin to war
sufrerers.
d.
Thorough collection of all excess
clothing held by civiliens for distri-
bution to destitute.
e.
Smooth rationing of repair materials.
P.
Relief meesures for Japanese abroad.
Liberal Party

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.97)
-15 -
Liberal Perty
1.
Enactment of sociel legisletion to guaran-
tee status of l borers end immediate con-
sideratio. o! other aporopriete measures.
Social bemocratic Farty
1.
astablishment of Ministry of National Cons-
truction, inistry of Social Insurance.
2.
xecution of nationul plan for i mediate
reconstruction of devestated areas.
3.
Improveaent of relief agencies for war
wounded εnd fanilies of war dead.
4.
Lsteblisn ment of & systen for unemployment,
health, old age, end educational insurance.
5.
ustablishment of preferential employment,
group ferming systen, and vocational educa-
tion for returning soldiers.
kelief for wer sufrerers and Jepanese abroed.
7.
solution of tne housing problem which is
the burden and responsibility of the Govern-
ment. Innediate provision for temporary
emergency housing for burned-out victims.
Leaocratization and expansion of radio
systen; distribution of radio receivers.
Comnunist -arty
1.
helief for wer sufferers, returning soldiers,
those release: fro: labor conscription, and
fenilies of wer dend.
2.
Jocial security for all homeless leborers
by provision for housing. kelease of all
large residences owned by Emperor, Imperial
family, capit:l ists, landlords, and of other
vacant buiidines.
3.
Immediate establisnnent of national insurance
system for unemployed, expenses to be borne
by the capitalists. en gement of all sociel
insurance funds to be entrusted to laborers
and unemployed.
DA. CUTTURE
DJC. TT(N
rogressive l'erty
1.
Improvement of national education based on
character development and spirit of service.
Liberal Party

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.97)
-16-
0L4SW
Liberal arty
1.
Abolition of narrow nationalistic ideology;
esteblisnment or Jepenese-type demooraoy
besed on tne principle "Emperor and People
in (ne".
2.
Establis.ment of national cultural insti-
tue.
3.
neforn of law of universities.
4.
xtend school tenas to: 3 years high sohool,
3 yeers university, 5 years middle school.
5.
Abolition of standardized compulsary educa-
tion. Encouragement of individuality of
students through respect accorded to indi-
vidual opinions of instructors.
6.
ancouragement of social sciences; develop-
nent of civic knowledge and civic virtues.
7.
Establisument of complete equa]:ty between
State and private schools; abolition of
acedenic cliques (gakubatsu).
8.
Imorovement of prestige and meterial treat-
ment o! teachers.
9.
bolition o! Governnent interference in
religion ond arts.
l0. ncouragement of competitive sports.
Sociel Democratic arty
Uevelopment or & new Japenese national cul-
ture and free i ternational cultural ex-
crenge.
2.
I'ro otion of a spirit of social soliderity
based on respect for the individuel.
3.
iffusion of knowledge of socie lism; uni-
ricatio of it bor and eduertion.
4.
levation of the netiona level of scienti-
fie and technical knowledge.
5.
romotion of scientiric tecnnology and
establisnment of research organs; improve-
ment in treet ment of sci entists and tech-
nicians.
6. doption or the metric system.
7.
xtension of the period of compulsary educa-
tion; trorough reorganization of the educa-
tional system.
UNCLASONILU

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.94)
-17-
UNCLASSIFIED
tional systen.
Governnent scholerships to deserving stu-
dents witrout financial resources.
9.
lininatio. of Govern nent interference in
religion.
10.
Respect and guarantee of f'reedon for the
arts.
11.
Improvement of paysique of people through
encouregement of sports.
12.
ronotion of spernto as an international
languase.
Conaunist Party
1.
Upposition to militaristic, imperislistic
legislation, culture, and education. Esta-
blishnent an vigorous dissemination of
progressive cu ture for the emancipation
of the people.
ONIT
rogressive rarty
Although no public statements have yet been
ande by toe Party on the auesti on, one of its
Jeaders ststes thtt the Tarty wili favor wo-
men suftrage.
Liberal Party
1. uffreee und electort: rights for women.
2.
qual e ucttint. opportunities for men
end wo en.
3.
abolition of legti restriction on rights
of wo en.
4.oliticel ticttion ror women.
.rovisio. for eeue tion in houe economy
For We.
6.
"aphoci upor elationcni: between poli-
tics and home economy.
sociel Democretic Party
1.
Aboliti,. of all restriction on rights of
women besed on tw, custo, orgenizetion,
in order to esteblish equel rights between
men and v men.
2. Esteblishment

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.95)
-18-
UINULNUUIILU
2.
-stablishment or equel opportunities for
educetion end euployment for men and women;
abolition of all discrimine tory treatment.
?. 'elitical e ucetion for women.
4.mhibition of prostitution.
5.
anrove ent and exnansion of agencies sup-
plying food for infants and children.
comnunist arty
1.
Gunrentee of fu.l pey for wonen laborers
durine confinement and cniidbirth; pro-
vision for free nedical treatment and hos-
piteli atio. durin confinement and ohild-
birth.
2.
ndequete care and security for women
leborers in view or their spebdal phy-
sical condition.
. Pronibition of female contract labor.
4.. abolition of wo en's present status with-
out rights, bascd on feudalistic family
system.

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.96)
SECURITY CLASSIFICATION
E4113
UNCLASSIFIED
4-1-52
4CB
FORM DS-507
REQUEST FOR DECLASSIFICATION OR DOWNGRADING
3-5-47
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SECTION A
TO: 1. ORIGINATING OR ACTION DIVISION
EXTENSION
BUILDING
ROOM NO.
FE
2951
3151
2. REQUESTER'S NAME
DIVISION
EXTENSION
BUILDING
ROOM NO.
Wilson C. Flake
F
4834
1.3
3181
3. DIVISION OF RECORD:
DC/R, REF, PD, etc.
10/
SECTION B
ATTACHED
THE FOILOWING DESCRIBED DOCUMENT APPEARS TO NO LONGER WARRANT ITS SECURITY CLASSIFICATION
TYPE OF DOCUMENT
Desnatch No. 
TO:
DATE
The Secrctary of tate
11-17-45
FROM:
George Atcheso, Jr., USPuL RY
SUBJECT:
File No. 894.00/11-1745.
Political Parti us i. Jupan:
Develonments Juring cek Lading November 17, 1945.
PRESENT CLASSIFICATION
CONFIDENTIAL
SECTION C
THE CHIEF OF THE DIVISION TO WHICH THIS FORM IS ADDRESSED OR A PERSON DESIGNATED BY HIM WILL REVIEW THE SUBJECT
DOCUMENT AND INDICATE THE DESIRED CLASSIFICATION.
CHANGE TO:
RETAIN PRESENT CLASSI-
TOPSECRETSECRETCONFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTEDUNCLASSIFIED
FICATION
C
reveree aide).
BY AUTHORITY OF:
Al devrfohuon
OFFICE OF THE ASSIT SECY
U. Alexis Joluson
FOR FAR EASTEIN AFFAIRS
SECTION D
INSTRUCTIONS—(1) The requesting divisio will complete lines (1) and (2) of Section A and all of Section B of
this form in duplicate.
(2) Both copies of this form, with one copy of the document or docnmeata to be dowagraded or de-
classified, will be forwarded to the action or originating division conceraed with the document attached where
practicable.
(3) The action or originating division will, if the contests warrant, declassify or dowagrade the
document by completing Section Cof this form in duplicate and routing both copies to the division respomsible for
maintaining the official record copy.
(4) The division that is the custodian of the record copy, upon receipt of this form, will file the
original of Form DS-bo7, change the classification on the record copy of the document iavolved, and forward the
duplicate copy of this form to the division initiating the request.
(5) The division which initiated the request will note the action taken, make the necessary changes
in classification of documents in its possession, and then route the duplicate of Form DS-507 to the Chief, Di-
vision of Security and Iavestigations (CSA).
(6) In cases where the originating or action division wishes to initiate the declassification, the
entire form will be completed and routed to the division maintaining the official record copy.
SECURITY CLASSIFICATION

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.92)
file
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Mosc, October 22, 1945
RESTRICTED
No. 2211
Subject: Transmitting Translation of Article
on Ruling Classee of Japan.
The Ambaseador hae the honor to refer to Department's
Airgram A-364 6f Se te ber 7, 1945, and to tranemit herewith
894.00/11-2245
a tranelation of Sokolov's article entitled "The Ruling Classes
of Japan" publ ched in Red Fleet for August 30, 1945 and
analyzed in Fubassy'e telegran no, 3127 of August 31, 1945.
1171.
1
Enclosure:
1.
Translation of
"Tre Tuling Classes  Japan"
from Red Fleet, August .
CSNJ
criginal and hectograp! t, tl.e Dopartment.
Copies to Tokyo
Chungking
RCTucker:dmh
JAN 141946
894.
FILED
1n1
1.
C
0
JAN5-10:6
JHI
Dis
22
BEOSENT TO DURU

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.97)
AIR MAIL
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 2211
dated October 22, 1945 from the
American Embasey at Moscow, U.S.S.R.
TRANSLATION
THE RULING CLASSES OF JAPAN
by M. Sokolov
Iublished in Red Fleet, Auguet 30, 1945
As is kmown, the olitical nstitutions of contemporary
Je an arose on the basis of the Constitution of 1889. This
Constitution :s not the fruit of original creation of Japanese
legielntors. In the l7o's a special mission was sent to Europe
with the task of aseimilating everything in other countries which
 ght bo useful for the state stmucture of Japan.
As n recult of tl le contact, not a progreseive constitution
but t obsolete Frueg'an Constitution, which granted practically
unlim'ted rigl ts to the Fperor, was adopted as the model for the
bac'c ntate law.
In general, the Japenese most read!ly adopted that which they
caw in Gormeny. Thus, for oxample, the Gorman system was the
besis for the organizat on of the Japanese army in the 188o's.
All thie cannot be considered tu. accident of history. The
cist:nctivo feature: of tre Fruosian steto system fully met the
interests of the bloc of great landowners and capitalists which
ruled and rulee conte orary Jalan. The cepitalist development,
startin; in the pecond half of the last century, proceeded rapidly.
The wers againet China and Tsarist Russia gave a strong stimulus
to the development of Ja anose industry. At the same time, the
proceee of concentrat on of industry and banking capital was
accelerated.
But even so, the country was not freed from survivals of
feudalium. In Japan we cee a fantaetic interveaving of imperialism
with rermants of feudal relationships. This interweaving ie seen
both in the economic and the olitical life of the country. The
landless and virtually landle: c peasantry--three-fourths of the
rural : o ulat'on--remains n slavieh dependency upon the landlords,
kuleke, and usurors. The ecalee and forms of tlls slavery are mon-
strous. The indebtedness of tle peasant farmers, except for the
kulake, grows fron year to year. Famine-etricken regione of
hundreds of thoueands and even millions of inhabitants are facts
of Japaneve reality which have long since ceased to cause surprise
e'ther wit.in the country or abroad.
Ti.e wages of Japanese workers, even higlhly qualified ones,
have always been extremely low.
All this taken together Ias made the internal market of Japan
very limited in purchasing power. The half-starving Japanese
peasant has nevor worn any foctwear other than sandals on wooden
soles. The consumption of textiles, sugar, and other products of
tho light and food induetries Is inconsequential.
The

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.95)
AIR MAIL
-2-
The growing disproportion betweon the level of development
of industry and tle restricted intermal market, which has under-
¿ono ractically no expans:on in the course of decades, inten-
sified the policy of conquost of the Japanese ruling cirgles.
All tie wmrs of Jaran--the eeizure of tho broadest holdings
in China, in other arts f Asia, on the Pacific--have been wars
for now selling markete, new rourcoe of raw ateriale.
All these fecte end henonone chould be borme in mind when
we speal f the statc structuro, tho political life of Japan.
Whatever Jaycnose Jurists may vrite, tho whole state system of
Jt, an reflccte the dirtinctivo foaturce of the economic structure
and internal contradictions of the country; the practice of state
Inetitutiens if a graphic prcof that there is not within them a
thede of domecrat' c rue'ples.
The procent Japanesc Const tution ay be considered even
more roacticnary than tho Trussian Conct:tution of 185o, which in
Its tirc allured the Japanece lcgiclators. Actuelly, the funda-
montal state lav becene only e camouflege fur Japanece abeolutiam.
The C mct:tt en emphac:zos the "divine origin" of the
Lunpcror. To ey ress doubt of thir--in the prosc, in the universities,
ir. scicntific work--means to comait  cri o ageinst the Constitution.
Gnly e few yeare ago rofessor Minobe, who dared to write in
one of his werke that "the Maperer is alco on organ of authority",
wac brought t trial. The most reactionery circles utilized this
csc to argravato he struggle against thoir olitical opponents.
The "nobe "cace" von reviewed in various stages. one of the
'ntorrogation lasted about ls hours.
Thir story  a cur'ous llustrat:on of the cystem of con-
tony orary Japancce "law and order".
Tie structure cnd activity f the Tarliamont also reflect to
no oall extent the interweaving of imperialism with the remnants
of feudal relationehi e which wo obscrve in Japanese life.
The Parlia ant, first convened in 190, ic divied into two
houces.
The ur nor houce ("Toers") ineluder ored:tary membere, those
ai ointed by tic Emperor, and elected members.
The first category includee princet of perial Llood, all
the princes and marguisos. Mombers of the cecond category are
appointed personally by the Emperor. The piglt of clection to
the u per houen is enjoyed only by tery large taxpayers fron threc
large cities end 4? prefectures.
A total of onc ercent. of the population of Japan voted in
the first electione to the lower house of the Japanese Parliament,
which tock place over a half century ago. But subsequently, in
opite of the much-publicized "broadening of voting rights", the
results of elections to the lower houec reflected the opinion of
only a very small part of the populet1on of Japan. In 1928, 12
or

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.98)
AIR MAIL
or 1? percent of the nopulation took part in the elections. A
whole series of legal and property limitations practically made
:t impossible for broed etrate of the population to participate
in the elections. The impoaing money tax which has to be paid by
a candidate for election fives access to the right of election
only to reprosentatives of political parties which possess con-
eiderable reane. If one recalls in addition the corruption,
bribery, pressure from the administrative machinery, then the
conditions of tre elections, limited by the Conetitution, may lese
than ever be coneidered an act of "free expreeeion of will".
Apart fron the upper and lower rouses of Parliament, there
are two further inetitutions. The firet of these is the "Privy
Council" composed of renresentatives of classes which were the
most influential feudal lorda of Janan before the coup of 1868.
This Privy Council hes the right to internret the Constitution
and alao all new and old lawe.
There in no mention in the Conetitution of the second of
these organe--the so-called "Gonro" Inrtitute. It is a counoil
of elder etatesmen who at one time or another have headed the
government. In recent yeare only one member of this council--
the 90 year old rince Saionji--has survived. The others have
died out.
The opinion of the "Genro" has frequently had more weight
in the eyes of the Emperor than the decisions of the Cabinet
of Ministers.
From the beginning of the present century, we invariably
see representatives of two influential parties--Seiyukai and
Minseito--in the lower house. It is diffioult to draw a sharp
line between these two parties, between their political programs.
The difference perhaps consists in the fact that the Seiyukai
are more closely connected with the big landowners than the
Minseito. But much more important for understanding the sosial
nature of these two political parties is the fact that they are
both connected with two monstrously overgrown conoerns which
have swallowed up large and small enterprises in the most varied
fields of industry, banks, newspapers, entertainment enterprises,
etc. Actually, the Seiyukai is the political representative
of the Mitsui concern and the Minseito of the :iftsubishi concern.
Both these parties carry on their work to a large extent with
subsidies received from the Miteui and Mitsubishi concerns.
In the past, representatives of the Seiyuai and Minseito
have formed the Cabinets of Ministers, in proportion to the
division of seats in the lower house. But even at that time
the Japanese Parliament did not determine the political line
of the Government. Moreover, such activities of Parliament,
according to the conceptions of Japanese logislators, would
oven have been a "violation of the constitution!, for, according
to the Constitution, the Government beare no responeibility
before Parliament.
In the early thirties, after Japan started the seizure of
Manchuria, the Cabinete of Ministers were formed not from repre-
sentatives of parliamentary parties, but from "non-party" figures--
generale

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.97)
ÀIR MAIL
-4
generale and admirals. The pressure of the Japanese militarists
on political life, which had alwaye been considerable, became
etill stronger from that time on.
But even this was not enough for the Japanese militarists.
In 1936 came still another attempt to copy the "Gorman model".
Like Hitler, the militarists attempted to seize all authority by
means of elections to Parliament. The military-fascist groups
put up their independent list of candidates, but suffered com-
lete defeat. Then an attempt was made at an armed uprising with
the aim of establishing en open military dictatorship and forcing
preparatione fer wer against the USsR. The military-fascist
circles failed in thie too. Such insiirers of the fasciste as
General Are:i lad to leave their poste.
But did theso events decrease the influence of the militarists
on the political l'fe of Japan? By no means. Governmonts headed
by "non-1arty" figures continued the same policy of aggression and
preparation for a creat war, of the most cruel repressions against
any expression of discontent within the country. The differences
consisted only in thc fact that these governmente had a more
"parliamentary" a pearance and from time tc time undertook hypo-
critical "peace-loving" actione.
The Japanese ruline circles preferred less obvious methods
of fascisizing the country to tle establish ent of an open fascist
dictatorship. Eowe er, the urposefulmeso of Japanese foreign
policy remained uneltered. It was. able fully to satisfy the
petites of nugnates of finance cap!tal, landowners and militarists.
B:th political life und all phaseo of economic life were subordinated
to the task of pre: arin: for "the great war".
The influence f the Ja anose militariete was and remains
enormous. cne tradition, which hae the force of law, gives us an
eloquent Jdee of te degree of influence of the Japanese militariste
on the political life of the country. By thia iradition, the
military and naval min!sters--these uust be respectively a general
and admiral of the line--cannot acce t these posts without the
lermission of their General Staffs. lence it is easy to understand
what Iower it concentrated in the hande of the Japanese militarists.
The ruline ircles f Japan, having made unlimited aggression
in Aela and tie l'acific the basic content of tieir program, repre-
sent the intereste of the loc of graat landlords and business con-
cerno, and the allitarlets--all the elemente of the faecisized
Japanese imperialism. Surface dictinctione whioh have arisen from
time to time letween thece grou s wannot lead the attentive observer
aetray. The whole sysiem of state life and enonomy--all here is
subordinated to one goul--. reditor. agresaien. It is this which
traneformed Japan int & he mt. of war n the Far East.
RCTucker:dnh

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.91)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
CFFICE OF THL UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japan, November 24, 1945.
UNCLASSIFIED
Dc
101345
Nc. 74
sutject: Repert cr Japerese P
tratin cf Farties and Irohibitions Against Certain
Candidates.
1FE/R
EEVE
DIVISION OF
言
lossin
1
The Hener
9
195 DEC
retery of tate,
ir:
I ave te heur te refer to this lission's despatch
no. 6, hove ber 17,145 andrevious despatches transmit-
tirg weerly reports, prepared at the request of the Supreme
Com ander, or. the general subject of the development of
Japanese political parties.
There is trans itted hereurder a copy of a memorandum
(apan)
of iaentic date. addressed tc the suprene Commander making
certair srcciric recommendations,designed to check the act-
ivities o undesiralle elenents in the political parties
now becon in active, anl forwarding: (1) this Mission's re-
port on the develoment o political parties in Japan during
the week endin nove: ber 24; and (?) a list of the known
officers o tie Imperial lule assistance Association and suc-
cessor organizations.
JAN4- 16
These recormendations are principally prompted by the
recent activatior of important elements of the former Great
Japan Political Association (Dai Nippon Seijikai) as the
CS/VJ
"Frogressive Farty" and theformaticn of other parties by
political leaders with knowr chauvinistic backgrounds.
Respectfully yours
George Atcheson, Jr.
JAN111946
nclosure: alt
FILEID
M
JAN 
Memorandum to Supreme Com-
mander, November 24,1945.
DCB NE Unit
Anal. 22
riginal and duplicate, with re-
verse carbon, toDepartment
Re
Cat
800
GAtchesonJr:emi
Dist

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure t Despatch No. 74
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES PCLITIC AL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japan, November 24, 1945.
HT
MEMORNDU FOn: Phe Jupreme Commander.
UJ Cl: Japanese Political Parties (Report for Week Ending November
24, 1945.)
Recommendations as to Registration of Parties, etc., and Pro-
hibitions against Certcin Candidates.
Hereunder cur seventh weekly report on Japanese political parties
submitted pursuent to the Chief of taff's memorandum of October 3, 1945.
In view of the approeching elections and the large number of Diet
members who are expected to run again and who are tainted by their past
activities, we also submit a number of recommendations which seem per-
tinent et this time.
e recommended in our memorendum of November 9, 1945, that present
Liet members who were fornerly mombers of associations listed in Part I,
Paragraph 5- of the ovevall Directive (SNNCc 52/7) be prohibited by in-
formal action from standing for re-election. Now that the elections are
so close, the new Progressive Party organized and the campaign underway,
it may not be advisable to undertake such a sweeping restriction, and we
accordingly modify our recommendation to include at this time only "in-
fluential members" of the organizations specified in the overell direc-
tive. In order to accomplish this purpose it would seem to be necessery
to obtain a roster of the parties which could be accomplished by requir-
ing t eir registraticn with the Government of pertinent details, includ-
ing sources of their funds. (It is wilely reported by Japenese that
larze sums for the Liberal and Progressive Parties are being secretly
furnished by wealthy reactionaries.) pecifically we recommend that:
1. Each political purty stould bo required to file with the
Japenese Government by an early specified date a declaration of
ite purpose, names of officers (including a statement of each
officer's previcus affiliations with parties and organizations),
roster of membership, and source of funde.
2. That its immediste dissolution should he ordered if Head-
tion, that any party is  "successor" to one of the organization
specified in the irective.
3. That the Japanese Government should be informed (orally)
that no person should be permitted to become a candidate for the
Diet in the coming election who hes been an influential member of
one of the organizations specified in the Directive. By "influen-
tial" should be meant officer, director, committee chairman or
important member.
There is appended, as Enclosure No. 2, a list of known officers of
the former Imperiel Rule ssistance Association, the Imperial Rule As-
sistance Political Society
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.94)
- 2 -
CLASSIFIED
sistance Political cociety, and the reat Japan Political ssociation.
de are endeavorine to check the membership of the Progressive Party and
will expect to submit lists thereof us soon as practicable.
Goorze .tehe son, Jr.
Enclosures:
roliticel rarties in Japen, veek
Ending November 24, 1945.
2.
List of officers of IR. and uc-
cessor Organizations.
UINCLASBIFIED

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.94)
- 3 -
OFFIC OF TIE IUE ITEP TATEL POLITTCAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Jupen, November 24, 1945.
NCIASE
OIJTIC  DEVELOLMENT DURENG THE
124194
Political activity will begin in earnest with the opening of
the let session or November 26. of the present membership of the
ouse of Represcntatives (424, taking into account 42 vacant seata),
109 have yet to announce their party affiliation. These include
certain independents and members of the former Daido and Seishin
cligues. Liberals, social Lemocrats and Progressives will undoubt-
ecly mpete for these members and attempt to forestall the fornation
of stili nother political party by Diet members.
inor right wing parties anpeur to be trying to set up a united
front to preserve the unperor institution end atteck Communism. In-
dications are trat meny of the leaders in this movement were militant
national sts during the war or oryanizers of gangs and rackets, (gorot-
suki) in the nano of petriotism.
The so-culled : rogressive Party launched its cereer with a mass
meeting et Hibiya Hall adcressed by the eloquent PRUMI Yusuke,
Ito Takao, and others whose careers are les: tainted than some of
the leaders of th old  ippon eiji ai who organized the now party.
TRr I's speech ws more stetesnan-like than that delivered by
H.ICY. Ichiro et the founding of tho Liberel Party. T.URUMI de-
fended the Japanese neti nal polity but urged a democratic form of
government similar to that of Great Britaia. He upheld limited con-
trolled economy modeled on the merican New Deel, end decried ultra-
uutionelism as a cause of war. ..Im was constantly interruoted
with shouts from the audience usking him to clarify Diet responsibility
for the war. do admitted that Diet menber: had been too weak and must
share war guilt. PN E Fadao, profesuor of economic: at Tokyo Impe-
rial University, peinted a bleak economic picture for Japan and deman-
ded a coordinated econo ic progran.
Phe Liberal: ud ocirl e ocrat: aopeur to be concentratine at
present upon the organizution of their parties in the previnces. The
comaunists tie not relented on tne sut ject of the institution of the
amperor but ofier to coopertte with Liberels or pocial Democrcts to
carry out refomm progrums, end to participate in a ccelition Cabinet
if it is "democratde" in nature. They eny that there is any funda-
mental difference in policy between themeelves and OANo's group in
Comiunist china. They are l cking in leadership and do nut expect
much siccess as a party in the coming electiuns. They anticipate
building up their strength through the organization of "Emancipation
Leagues" which will ignore the touch Emperor question.
Observers look for a decreese in the number of seats now held by
the Progressive
ASSIFIED

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.96)
the Progressive Party (230) as a result of the January eloctions, but
still expect it to emerge ss the strongest party unless some unforeseen
developments occur. Liberal and socialists stand to make substantial
gains.
Outside of rokyo there seems to be generel apathy toward politics
and the coming election. Ir. both rural and urban areas the people are
repurtadly thinking mainly of the vital necessities of life; food,
shelter, and clothing. Democracy as yet has little meaning for them.
in a recer:t survey of rural communities, less than 2% of the womon
showed any ective int erest in their nowly acquired suffrege rights.
une concludes thet the process of democratization will be a long one
and that the sclution of economic problems and political education are
prerequisites.
Join. mnerson
Foreln Service officer
appendices:
1. rornatio: of a Rightist United Front.
Il. Mass Meetine of the Progressive Party.
III. ctivities of the Liberal Party.
IV. ctivities of tne ocial Democratic Party.
V.
.ctivities of the communiet rarty.
ED

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.95)
- 5 -
UNCASSIFIED
APPENDIX I
Formation of a Rightiat United Front
The press reports thot e number of the smaller parties are
working toward a "united front" to oppoic the Communist-sponsored
"populer front".  oversl mass meetings have been held in the nemes
)" crganizaticns such as: "Var gainet Hunger", and "Starvation
Union". The appeal is made to hunger sufferers on the basis that
natiunal salvation cun come only through support of the Emperor
system and opposition to Communiam. Previous records of some of the
leaders end of their former organizations suggest that in reality
they may still cling to idees of militant nationalism.
Iwelve minor political parties are reported to heve egreed to
form a "council for common trugele gainst unger", the first meeting
of which is to be held on November 26. Spearhemding the movement is
th Jepen loiline Mass Party (Nippon rinro Taishu-to) under the
lesdershin of MIkl eii. Other affiliating parties are the:
Japan National Party (Nippon Kokumin-to) heeded by KODaMa Yoshio,
rightist politiciun with an unsavory record in China; Greet Japan
Revolutionary Party (Dai Nippon akumei-to) under OTa Sakae, fomer
member of the House of Representatives fro: (rinawa; National
rIrI I Polle; (Lenkoku Kinrosna bomei), directed by elements
of the old atione list ic rokusui-to; utonomous Imperial Sut jecta
Party (Jichi omin-to) le? by kTo Yoshimasa, reported chawvinist;
Conetitutional Young Men's Progreasive Party (Rikken Seinen Shimpo-to)
under vOI MI Rokich1; New Japen Young Men's Federation (Shin Nippon
Seinen Domei) headed by SAkI Matsuo; New Japen Party (Shin Nippon-to)
with MIYATo Takayuki; and Pro-merican Philanthropists Party, one of
the letest groups reported to have formed.
P NDIY II
ULED

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.96)
- 6 -
ED
APPENDIX II
Mass Meeting of Progressive Party
Tho Progressive 'arty held its first mass meeting in Hibiya
Hell ou November 2 with an ettendance smaller than that at either
the social vemocratic or Liberal Party rallies wnich took place
curlier in the month. The speakers were: TSURUmI Yusuke, well
known publ icist; Allc Takao, biet lember expelled from the House
of Representatives in l940 for criticiam of the Government; and OTA
Masataku, director of tno Pol:cy Bureau of Imperial Rule Assistance
association in 1940.
Srief sumnsries of the fi rst three speeches follow:
TsURMI. The Japenese must realie xeenly e intense antagonim
felt toward them tnroughout the world. They must know that the lives
of ne soldier dead will have been lost in vain unles3 a permanent
new Japan can be constructed. emocrecy. Those who say there was
never any democracy in Jevun ave lost faitn in their own country.
No country in the world has placed fewer restrictions on religious
freed then Japan. lowever, those who think that a democracy and
a ropublic are synonymous ig ore history, law, end traditions.
(applause). . Japaaese democracy will resnoct the spirit of the
national polity (applause). There is no reason for Japan to adopt a
democrecy of the american type. Great Britain, an island country
with a feudal background is similar to Japan in many ways and a
Britian type democracy would be adaptable to Japan. Liberaliam.
Liberaliam is not new to Japan. The Japanese Conatitution is liberal
in many ways. However, political freedoms, those of speech, assembly,
organization, nave not been guaranteed to the Japanase. These political
liberties ere necessery but complete economic freedom is inadvisable.
In tho United States President Roosevelt's New Deal wes the starting
point for economic progress. In Jepen economic security is demanded
by the people and can be achieved only through some measure of control.
Peace. Ultra-nati nalism, the placiny ofone'a own country in a unique
positior: bove all others, nas been largely responsible for leading
Japan to war. Japan must realize that she no longer acts independently.
Therefore american public opinion has a direct bearing upon all Japan's
do mestic problems. Tue Japarese must study and understand merican and
allied public opinion. Food. Jupan must import grains to survive.
However, Japan cannot expect the nited states to ive rice to Japan
when america's ows  llies are sterving. To justify rice imports from
the United States, Japan must become e democracy end must take action
herself to achieve economic security. conclusion. Japar must regain
the international faith whica she has lost. Sir Edwerd Grey, Prime
Minister of ngland at the time of th. first Norld War, told Colonel
House during diacussicnson the shantung question thst more than any
other nation, Japun's word could be trusted. House repeated this
statement to Fresident Nilson and the Shantung question was settled.
Japan has lost this faith because of events which began with the
Manchurian Incident. None of her problems can be permanently settled
until she regains this faith of the world.
SAITo. Japan would be a first class power if she had not lost
the war
IFIED

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.96)
- 7 -
UNCLASSIFIED
the war. Instead we heve lost much of our land and our independence.
If a vote had been taken, the people would have voted against the war.
We Liet members accept our responsibility for the war. (Shouts: "State
your responsibility clearly!") The problem now is to construct a now
Japan. It will require complete revision and refonm of our politics.
(Shouts: "It's no ood to repuint your signs!") During the war
politicians could do nothin against the militarists. Only the
Potsdam vecleratio: rade reforms possible. it is true that the
politicians werc to weak; they lacked str ngth and determination.
(Applauee; snouts: "uicide!") There must be a complete clean-up of
Japunese politics. (.lo ended hie speec! rather abruptly because of
constant interruption.)
PaD. The Plau ing Hourd in l94l seid Japen could not fight
the United tutes end ingland; it leter revorsed this conclusion. The
Poard from 1936 to 194l was not plannin for a war with the United States
and ingland. Jap: was dependent upon the United States for scrap iron,
and upor: .merica, ngland, and other countries for nmerous essential
raw materials. Jepanese pruduction shurply decreased after the United
states embargo o: oil in 194o. till Japan went to war! at the present
time Japan has no access to rew materials in Manchuria, China, Philippines,
rorea, end Fornosa. Jepen has no food, no clothing, no raw materials to
prodice textiles. It is weli to speak of freedom and equality, but the
equality or paupers is worth little. In ly42 I kmew that Japan had lost
the war because of her lack of materiel, and I said that she could not
win on spirit alone. I was prohibited from broadcasting my conclusions
at thet tine. Japan never had e coordirated economic plan. From May
and June of l942, especially after tne decisive battle of Midway, the
war was lost for Japan. To solve present problems there must be a
unified, coordinated plan of action and it must be carried out.
ENDIX III

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.95)
- 8 -
PENDIX III
UNCLASSIFIED
nctivities of the Liberel Party
The Liberal Party hes announced the appointment of several
comuittees to study specific probleins, such as food shortage and
revision of the Constitution. The latter com:ittee is headed by
Dr. "TNORE Tetsukichi, well known authority who has publicly stated
thet the present Japanese Constitution can be democratized through
interpretation es easily as through revision.
The Lipertls are completin their party organization with the
formation of branches in kyoto, Usake, an. Hyogo, shiga, Gifu, Pukui,
lehlkawa, Toyame, and Nagano prefectures. L.YM Ichiro, president
of the party, accompenied b MKINo Ryozo and TTi. Reikichi, has been
ettending founding meetings in the hove districts. The tour which
begun on November 18 1s due to he completed on November 26.

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.96)
- 9 -
APPENDIX IV
UNCLASSIFIED
Activitios of the social Democratic Party
The ociul emocrats expect to increase their representation
in tho viet in the coming January elections from the 15 seats they
now hold to from 50 to 70. In sddition to their influence among
the luboring and farming clauses the socialists are attracting the
support of the Japenese intellectuals. If they are able to main-
tain their prescnt rether precerious unity, the party may become
the most importunt progressive force in Jansnese politics.
Information available inlicates thet the party has been quite
sctive in the provinces. Campelgn toura nave been undertaken by
r.Po nanju, TTC Jichiro, T UI Choseburo, NISHo Suehiro,
an othera, covering the important districts in the country. Ac-
cordiug to a lettcr :o :he Yomiuri-Hochi simed by the Party Central
Headguarters, ta many as 5co lecture and discussion meetings daily
heve been neld in cities and villages from Hokkaido to Ragoshima.
attondence at e mass meetin in apporo, Hokkaido wes reported as
more than ?,000.
APPENDIX V
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.93)
-10-
AP2DIX V
Leaderchip of the Comunist arty reme ine in the hands of the
relessed politi cal prisoners. vu ryuicni is apparently accepted
as leeder of t e party with Ic, Yoshio as his first assistart. The
second 1s ue of the comrunist publication, Red Flag has appeared with
all articles siened either by Tos L, Ga, or TaKAMAD Satomi, for-
mer inmate of  iyegi Prison.  yet, no new leaders heve emerged from
th. undergruund movement.
Tn tm ii terview with the press, To stated thet the Party now
hed soo members but did nut expect to win nany meats in the coming
elections. fforts are no. hoing conc ntrated on the formation of
branchcs of the eople'e mnacipation lesgue in various parts of Ja-
pan. The date for the cony oeetlon of the "Fourth Party Congress" has
not yet been fixed but is expected to e in carly December.
Interest is centered on t puseible return to Jepan from Yenen,
China, of N susumu, end of tho reported divergence of opinion on
the mperor question between the Jupanece in Com unist China and the
Party in Japa. u. No is known to nuve left Yenan in early Septem-
ber with the leuders of his group of reeducated Japere se prisoners of
war. The Japunese reasant; and orkers chool is reported closed in
Yenan. Party leaders in Tokyo irve Preguently xpressed the hope
that Or will retrn soon.
on the question of the mperor, , and Ic. insist that
there is no Jifference of o taion between trem ara OrNc. In Red Flag
for Yovember 7, HI. tetes thet C c is just es nuch opposed to
tho snporor institu: lon us ine perty leeders in Japen but that he had
proposed thit the Jep e. people, i view of their contirued super-
utitious reverence for the nperor, might be permitted to decide on
the continuen ce or lition of the mperer system. s pointed
out that much his hapeeic since's statement, that the feeling
of people in Jupan toward the umnoror Is chan-ing, and thet once Jap-
anese communists broad rutur: to  apan, the iron unity of the Party
wil! be c leurly deronstrated.
au e ectual  elont, me in Yener on ugst 1l, wat roperted
by FCC Bs fol!ow :
"Phere is a soutit " eople in allied countries who ed-
voc ate furedi tely bolit ton of the or  ene umperor. I
e ounced  the lece cor miat rerty eventh congres
ou behalf of the e ese omu. tst arty thet the Japan-
ne se mpe rer can ot evale respongibility fo" the war. out
up until today the Japanoso rmperor is an ob ject of reve-
rence for the me jority of Japaneso people. Therefore, the
question of existence of the Japarcse mperor Sheuld be de-
cided by the free will of the Japaese people efter the war.
Hut should the Japanese people decide to preserve the Japa-
nese Eperor, tne Japsnese mperor chould definitely no lon-
ger hold such vast anti-democratic dictatoriel power es in
the past..."
Io: UDn denled to the pres that the Japenese Com unist Party had
auy connection

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.87)
-1
eny connection wil ovle: Russit. le seid thet the primary objective
of th arty ws the ocute seeity of the people and that opposi-
tion would be mde o uny cabinct waich put obstacles in the way of
uclhieving this d. le !  re ws no th ugnt of using "violence
for violence's cake". it poer to lurt, he ented rumors that
the Jupxnese Communi d .ived Y1o,ooo,ooo from the U.S.S.R. for
suppor ot the perty.
nly in o ft it ni effect the estnblislment of a popular
Front have lhe Conmuniets compromised on the quection of the mperor.
tey a ve oper.i deaounced JIn as Japus's arch wer criminal.
I. use  pge end " liulf of the iatest Red Flag to build up a case
gist the pret peror and nemes rince oov es the second most
important wer crininal.
fa con mmict iitle ln vi lent attncks tgaiact leaders of the
other purtjas. In ni. speech delivered et e mass xeetin in Csaka on
ol er L, l  named PUor romekici and NI HIc uehito of the
 Tero roshini. OKo
omejire, tsic nd   vatau or the Literal Per-
, as wr i.ls.owever, T emphasized thet the Communist
rt  willin t t e papular frot with either the Socialists
ore Libertis  he lutio uf pecific problems facine the coun
try.
The Coneunists stat tr: that they will be glad to cooperate
with and port  cipate i   i it ju cutinet if it is "domocratic" in
"ost otervere be lieve thet the Comeanints stand little chance
of uchievine uny inpressive vicor ir the c mingLections. Their
sten or the uperor gueetion hea allenated neny followere and they
have not yet deve loped suffici ont lenlership. Tonp) and sGh can
herdly shoulder tne eutire  po  ihi lity of run iny the party if it
1s to progres rapidl..itn tIme, however, the Communist Party of
Jepan muy develor nto a politier force of some importance.

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.95)
-12-
ULASSNIED
Enclosure No. 2
LIT CF OFYIC ER OF IR., IRAPS. AND SUCCESSOR
ORGANILATION
II YOUAN-KA (Imperial Rule ssistence Associetion - I.R.A.A.)
(officially sponsored by Prince ONoYE Fumimero in ugust 1940; dis-
solved in 3prine of 1945; Premier automatically president.)
ANDC kiseburo
"ice President (1943)
ANDO yoshiro
ecretary-Ceneral and Director of
Ceneral Affairs Bureau (1944-)
ARI IA Yoriyusu, Count
Director-Gereral (1940-41): Chief,
Geleral Affeirs Bureau (-1944)
AOKI Kazuc
Vice President (1942)
FUJJSAN. Chikao
Director
FUJIWARA (Ginjiro ?)
Director of Lebor Department
GODO Kiyoshi
Director represent ing the Black
Dragon Society
COTO Fumio
Vice President (1943-44); Chief of
General Affairs Bureau (1943)
HCHIJo Pakemase. Viscount
Director
HAsHDMo10 ingoro, Colonel
Director und Bureau Chief (1944)
HAMA Shigeru
Director of Organization Bureeu
OGATA Taketora
Viceresident (1944)
SIODEN Nobutake
Director (1944)
SUKI Takeo
Director (1943)
AIAAWA Kutsuroku
Director, Program Bureau (1942-43)
HONJO higoru, Ganeral Baron
MATSUI Iwane, General
Director-General, Greater East Asia
Headquarters
HOSHINO Naok1
TAISEI YOKUN EIJIKI (Imperial Rule Assistance Political Society -
I.R.A.P.5.) Estsblished on occesion of generel election of May 1942,
under TOJC Cabinet. Dissolved when n w party, DAI NIPPON SEIJIKAI was
formed in March 1945.
KOBAYASHI Se1zo, dmirel
President from July 1944 to its
dissolution in March 1945
ABE Nobuyuki, General
President until July 1944
MAEDA Yone Zo
President of Board of Directors
MIYOSHI Hideyuki
Chief of the Diet Department
OASA Tadeo
Permanent Manager
YAMAZAKI Tatsunosuke
Permanent Maneger
YANEMITSU Tsuneo (or Yofu)
Permanent Maneger
YOKCYAMA ShOichi
Director, General ffairs Bureau
MATSUNO Tsuruhe1
Directer, Chief of Great Japan
Labor Service Association
SHIODEN Nobutaka, Lt. General
Director
ONO Shoya
Chairman, Political Affairs Committee
OKAZAKI Hiromitsu
Director, Information Bureau
NAKAJIMA Yadanj1
UNCLASCIFIED

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.89)
-13-
NAKaJ IMA. Yadan J1
Director
MATS MJA ROLZO
Director, Political Investigation
Associetion
MAEDA Fusan osuke
Uirector
FUJII j
Chief of Practice Bureau
JCHINMIYA FuBeJIro
Jirector (Chief or extensive under-
cover and espionage organizations)
K  i
Director of Information Department
(1944?)
DrI NI.PON lJJr.I (Greater Japan Political Associetion)
(Crganized Merch 1945; dissolved eptenber 1945)
Ih Jiro, Jeneral
President
LLTTSMUR. KeLZO
Secretary-General
Yf (or r)
Director-General
SARinaUCI Yukio
Director
Te Hyogore
Director
1. JFOI Yoshimichi
Chmn. of Organization Dept.
HNAM ICHI
Pres. of Generel Affairs Board
MrTS Da Takechiyo
Chmn. of Practical Enforcement
Department
10G0 Yieord
irector, Political Investigation
Bureau
PAX.. Takeo
Cheirman of Diet Committee
Paaee Shienirku
Chmn. of House of Reps. Dept.
.A Yonezo
Tentative Chmn. of Tokyo-to Division
PRIR YAT TOFIC
Chmr. of lokkaido Division
UNJO Hideo
Chmn. of Miyagi-ken Division
Yh Daigor
Chan. of Fukuoka-ken Division
RDAShing
dviser; Chmn. of Osake Division
 . Juich
dviser
YJN Michio
dviser
POMI TA itsuru
..dviser
Sn. Hiroshi
adviser
!NeUE Tomoharu (?)
Councilor
P/NO
Councilor
170 Goro
Councilor
OI Matejire
Councilor
.PE Giju
Ceuncilor
UR.YA Choky
Oirector
.dviser

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.97)
SECURITY CLASSIFICATION
84 114
UNCLASSIFIED
FORM DS-507
REQUEST FOR DECLASSIFICATION OR DOWNGRADING
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
3-5-47
SECTION A
TO: 1. ORIGINATING OR ACTION DIVISION
EXTENSION
BUILDING
ROOM NO.
FE
2951
NS
3151
2. REQUESTER'S NAME
DIVISION
EXTENSION
BUILDING
ROOM NO.
Wilson C. Flake
FL
4834
NS
3181
3. DIVISION OF RECORD:
DC/R. REF, PD, etc.
/
SECTION B
ATTACHED
THE FOLLOWING DESCRIBED DOCUMENT APPEARS TO NO LONGER WARRANT ITS SECURITY CLASSIFICATION
TYPE OF DOCUMENT
Despatch o.74
TO:
DATE
11-24-45
The Secretary of state
FROM:
Georre Atcheson, Jr. UsPtiau Tokyo
SUBJECT:
Report on J:ranese Political Parties for meek enuing 11-24-45: Reconmendations as to
PRESENT CLASSIFICATION
Re. istretien of Parties anu Prohibitions a. ainst Certain
SEC.T
File No. 894.00/11-2445
Candidates.
SECTION C
THE CHIEF OF THE DIVISION TO WHICH THIS FORM IS ADDRESSED OR A PERSON DESIGNATED BY HIM WILL REVIEW THE SUBJECT
DOCUMENT AND INDICATE THE DESIRED CLASSIFICATION.
CHANGE TO:
RETAIN PRESENT CLASSI-
TOP SECRETSECRET
CONFIDENTIAL RESTRICTED UNCLASSIFIED
FICATION
BY AUTHORITY OF:
M. Aillvi folmen
DATE
2/1/52
OFFICE OF THE ASSIT SECY
li. Alexis Johrson
FOR FAL FASTERN AFFAIRS
SECTION D
INSTRUCTIONS—(1) The requesting divisign will complete lines (1) and (2) of Section A and all of Section B of
this form in duplicate.
(2) Both copies of this form, with one copy of the document or docnmeats to be dowagraded or de-
classified, will be forwarded to the action or originating division conceraed with the document attached where
practicable.
(3) The action or originating division will, if the contents warrant, declassify or dowagrade the
document by completing Section Cof this form in duplicate and routing both copies to the division respomsible for
maintaining the official record copy.
(4) The division that is the custodian of the record copy, upon receipt of this form, will file the
original of Form DS-so7, change the classification on the record copy of the document iavolved, and forward the
duplicate copy of this form to the division initiating the request.
(5) The division which initiated the request will note the action taken, make the necessary changes
in classification of documents in its possession, and then route the duplicate of Form DS-s07 to the Chief, Di-
vision of Security and Investigations (CSA).
(6) In cases where the originating or action division wishes to iaitiate the declasmificatios, the
entire form will be completed and routed to the division maintaining the official record copy.
SECURITY CLASSIFICATION

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.93)
DEC171945
No. 3
To the
Asting United States Pelitieal Adviser to
The Supreme Commander for the Allied Pewers,
Ameriean Embassy Building,
Tekye.
Reference is made to the Aeting Pelitieal Adviser's
despatehes No. 43 er Nevember 7, Ne. 53 ef Nevember lég
No. 60 of November 17; and No. 74 er Nevember 84, 1965,
reporting on politieal parties and prastisal develep-
ments in Japan. The Department considers that the
memeranda transmitted with these despatches represemt
894.00/11-2445
a high standard ef pelitieal reperting and indieate
clese study, commendable imitiative and sosiderable
effort en the part ef the offieer whe prepared them,
Mr. John X. Emmerson.
A copy of this imstruetion will be plased with
Nr. Emmerson's effiolenoy record.
)
111
894.00/11-2448
94.80

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.96)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
CE&
OF THE
ib
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japen, November 26, 1945.
DC/R
NO. 72
SUBJECT: Interview with TSURUMI Yusuke of the Japan Progressive
Party.
I FE/R
The Honoreble
/ oss(ime
The Secretery of State,
Ht
Washington.
Sir:
I heve the honor to trensmit a copy of a memorandum of a joint
interview held at General Headquarters on November 17 with Mr. TSUmUMI
Yusuke, Diet member and one of the leaders of the new Japen Progressive
Party (Nippon Shimpo-to). Mr. Emmerson of this Mission participated in
the interview.
Mr. TSURUMI hes had extensive experience as a lecturer in the
United States where he defendedJapen's wer against China in 1937. He
speaks excellent English, has a disarming personality, and knows how
to present his case in the most favoreble light for Americans. He
reiterated during his interview that he understood the directness of
Americans and wented to keep Headquerters constently informed of the
developments within his party. He stated he was ready to answer any
nd all questions with complete frenkness.
Summary. The Progressive Party believes in economic freedom but
to the extent advoceted by the Liberals who cling to l9th century
as of laissez-faire. The Progressives went to substitute "pesple's
onomous control" for bureaucratic control. They support a con-
tutional menarchy similar to that of Great Britain. The party
lizes that its future depends on the issue of war responsibility.
this issue is not pressed too herd, the party hopes to obtain a
yorking majority of 233 in the next Diet. TSURUMI's formula was to
exclude from the party 1) all members of wer cabinets, and 2) TOJO's
henchmen. The second condition has been accepted but the first has
not been carried out, since it would exclude such persons as MACHIDA
Chuji, "grand old man" of Jepenese politics. Without an army end with
e disrupted police force, Japan now is ripe for politicel disturbance.
There is greet nood for a solid stabilizing politicel organization
whith the Progressive Party hopes to provide. End of Summary.
Respectfully yours,
S
R
213.
Cat
Dist
Georgé Atcheson, Jr.
Enclosure:
1. Memorandum of Interview with TSURUMI Yusuke, November 17. 1945.
(42)
Original and duplicate, with reverse
carbon, to Department.
800
JKimmerson: jrf

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despetch No. 72 of November 26, 1945 from the
Acting United States Political Adviser to the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers, Tokyo, Japen, on the subject "Interview with
TSURUMI Yusuke of the Japan Progressive Party".
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
UNITED STATES ARMY FORCES, PACIFIC
Office of the Chief Counter Intelligence
Officer
Advenced Echelon
APO 500
20 November 1945
SUEJECT: Report of Joint Interview with TSURUMI Yusuke.
TO
: Lt. . Pontius, Reseerch end Anelysis Section
TRCM : Tec 4 Selznick
After initiel contact with Yusuke TSURUMI, Member of the Diet
end e leader of the SHIMPOTO (Progressive Party), this section
erranged for e joint interview on 17 November, et which the following
individuals were present: Mr. Emmerson, Office of the Political
Adviser; Mejor Roest, Government Section; Lt. Damsgaard, Civil
Informetion and Education Section; Tec 4 Selznick, CIS. The following
notes represent & record of Mr. TSURUMI's replies to approximately
two hours of interrogeti on.
ORGANIZAT ION OF THE SHIMPOTO
1. The SHIPOTC wes officiell orgenized on 16 November, at
e generel meeting of its adherents mong members of the Diet. Approx-
imetely 230 members of the lower house heve joined the party. Ail are
former members of the DAI NIPPON SEIJIKAI, which had 380 members in
the House.
2. A president, or netional leader, of the party has not yet
been chosen, though TSURUMI hes e cendidete in mind. Two top posts
et present are those of Chief whip, held by TSURUMI, end Reseerch
Director, held by OTA Tekao SAITo is usuelly cheirman of perty
meetings, is best-known of their public figures.
3. Sarlier, it hed been ennounced that the new perty would be
called "/INHONTO". An explanetion of the reason for the change is of
politicel interest. A debete developed inside the group as to which of
two elternative Japenese equivelents of the term "democrecy" wes to be
used. Some, including TSURUMI, wented to use "MINSHUTO" which implies
people-es-master in the state; others fevored "MINHONTO" which implies
people-as-basis of the state. Those supporting the latter threetened
a split if "MINSHUTO" were used. TsURUMI considered thet unwise and
proposed "SHIMPOTO" s e compromise which mede no commitments es to
the locus of sovereignty. (TSURUMI's modificetion of populer
sovereignty: Jappnese government should be by the people, and for
the people, but not of the people.)
4. It is unfortunate that the origins of SHIMPOTo were identified
in the press in terms of the MACHIDA-NAKAJIMA factions. MACHIDA is a
"grend old men" of the movement, ebout 83 yeers old. But NAKAJIMA is not
acceptable to the new perty, end will retire from politice.
5. Al though

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
5. Although the MINSEITO end SEIYUKAI perties are formally non-
existent, they still heve deep roots locelly. The MINSEITO element
predominetes in the SHI.POTO, representing three-fifths of its perlia-
mentery membership.
PROGRAN
6. The platform of the new group wes written by TSURUmI and
Vaseteke OTA (& former Director of the IRAPS). Some of the policies
are considered redical, but none directly effect the monarchy system,
support of which is fundement:l to the SHIMPCTO. The basic tems of
religious end politicel freecom ere espoused, including the revisions of
the electoral lew (lowred ege, women suffrege) now supoorted by the
government.
7. It is on the question of economic freedom thet radical
divergences among the new parties occur. The SHIMPOTO recognizes that
economic liberclism of the l9th-century veriety no longer suffices.
Economic controls must be meintained, endin this respect the progrem of
the SHIMPOTO eporoaches the SHAKAITO rether than the JIYUTO. The
people, however, will heve to be sold on the idee thet controls in
economic life ere necessery. They bitterly dislike the old bureaucracy-
ridden system. It is necessary to put forwerd & progrem of control by
the people. This mey be done through such messures as consumer-perticipe-
tion in the retionin: edministrstion.
SHIMPOTC is for  controlled economy within the system of
privete ownership. This jistinguishes it from the JIYUTC, which wents
to eliminete controls, es well es from the SHAKAITO, which seeks the
extension of government ownership in industry end finence. SHIMPOTO
is neither for nor pgeinst nationalizstion in principle, but will decide
epch crse on its merits. A resesrch bureru, to investigate just such
problems, is being estsolished under the leadershio of OTA.
9. Agriculture snd lebor orogrems re es yet undeveloped. In
the letter field, the J'IMPOTo hes "few exnerts."
10. Constitutional reform:  aintrin a constitutional monerchy,
tending towerd the Pritish system; Pprlisment to have central place,
Cebinet to be responsible to Parliament; Privy Council system to be
revised in the direction of lecrersing its nower, limiting numbers end
tenure, but not ebolition; oureaucr cy to be overhsuled. The SHIMPOTO
hes teken no stand on revision of rticles of the constitution which
guarentee the sovereignty of the Tenno.
WAR-RESPCNSIBILITY
1l. It is recognized thet the problem of wer-responsibility is
perheps the primary issue fecing the new party. The party as e whole
cennot escepe the tsint of heving been involved in responsibility for
the wer. At the seme time, they mey be able to maintein a large pert
of their power if they find & wsy to exclude elements most responsible
for the wer, most cleerly identified in the public mind with prosecution
of the wer nd responsibility for the defeet. TSURUMI's formule wes to
exciude from the SHIMPOTO (1) s1l members of eny wer cabinet; (?) TOJO's
henchmen. In fect, however, the first condition wes abandoned, beceuse
they did not went to draw a line which would exclude men like MACHIDA,
who wes & member of the KOISo cebinet. But the second condition wes
accepted, resulting in the exclusion of the aircreft-manufecturer
Chikuhei NAKAJIMA Ps well as Tedao OASA.
12. It is hoped

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
12. It is hoped that the cheracter of the perty in relation to
war-responsibility will be more cleerly defined when a president is
selected. TSURUMI wants e man who will be strong enough to say that
the wer criminels should be punished. This would involve the exclusion
of more Diet members. The compromise cheracter of the party at present
is indicated by the fact thet the ex-cabinet members heve not been
piven the honorery desinetion of "advisers".
13. The NCW JAPAN CONS RUCTION PARTY, 8 group of younger members
of the DAI NIPPON SEIJIKAI, hes entered the SHIIPOTO en bloc. Some
of these veople were linked to the war-responsible elements which TSURUMI
wished to exclude from the prrty, so that the decision to permit their
entry en bloc admitteily represents a cepituletion on the part of the
SHIMPUTO leadership.
14. In generel, while there cre still undesireble elements in the
SHIAPOTO, it is hoped thet they cen be weeded out in the future. A
cool reception by the public is more or less ineviteble. The whole
question of wer-responsibility mey compromise the SHIlPoro seriously.
OTLR COMMENT
15. The next Diet will look something like this: 50 for the
SHAKAITC: 100-120 for the JIYUTO; 200-plus for the SHIMPOTO; rest
scrttered. ?33 seets ere requirei for e working majority. A coalition
of the SHIMPOTC with the JIYUTO is possible.
16. The sHIIPOTO is unpopular with the press right now. The ex-
pulsion of the old directors and editors hes been pertly responsible
for this. Some of the young journelists who heve instigeted the ex-
pulsions hed formerly hobnobbed with ermy officers. ASAHI's Bunjiro
SUZUKI is & liberel, & friend of TSURUMI's, whose support he hed
counted on. The reletive svece given to the SHIMPOTO and, sey, the
Communists. is unfeir. The SHIMPOTC hes also been discriminated ageinst
in the rrdio field. There is a generel leftwerd trend now in the redio
end press, end the SHIMPCTO suffers somewhet for it.
17. The present government is too weak to corry out eny reel
policies. HIDEHARA is too fer removed from the people.
18. In general, the SHIMPOTO has the tesk of functioning es 
stebilizing oolitical center in a country ripe for politicel disturbence.
It is a country long repressed, with no tredition or experience in
democretic self-discipline, from which the lid hes been suddenly re-
moved.

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japan, Nevember 26, 1945.
.LNAL RCSOURCES DIVISION
CONFIDENTIAL
FEB201946
No. 73
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SUBJECT: Review of Developments in Japan August 26-
November 20, 1945.
NANVISER
ITA
NON
145
/oss(IAIS
The Honorable
I FE/R
The Séeretary of State,
Washington.
Sire
894.00/11-2645
I have the honor to enclose a review of develop-
ments in Japan from the time of entry of our forces to
November 20, 1945, prepared by Mr. Robert A. Fearey of
the staff of this Mission.
Analysis of and comment in regard to developments
are to be found in our weekly telegraphic political re-
ports. This review does not purport to be an analytical
document or to offer more than passing comment in regard
to the progress of the events described in it. It was
prepared principally for the record and for purposes of
reference, and contains as an appendix a chronological
day-to-day list of events. We shall eventually expect
to submit similar reviews periodically, possibly every
two months, in the future.
Respectfully yours,
Ju, heon
Goorge Atcheson, Jr.
Enclosure:
CS/VJ
Review of Developments
in Japan, August 26-
November 20, 1945.
Original and duplicate, with re-
verse carbon, to Department.
Copies to: General of the Army MacArthur,
Major General Willoughby (@-2), and
Brigadier General Crist (Government
Section.)
800
GAtchesonJr:em1
∴N
Ds1

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.89)
THE OOOUPATIC.. CF JAPAN
Recort Coverins the Period
Au ust 2e to November 20. 1945
Tole  Cotents
Page
I. LA DI. G, DPLCY.E  S.LIDAION
1
II.H H VNTS
2
TIL. D.  ILIZA IC.
3
IV. SC CTAL, POLT.ICAL  OOTO R SORM
4
A. RV
tricti  th Freedom or
thhe Frese
 Civil
Literties
4
B.Refrte sional System
C. Revisio:
the  ittion nd
AcvonyitLwsn or inences
0
D. D mocrtizetio. I J ese Eeonomy
8
Decentr:litatio..  rcio ana Co.trol
1.. Istry
3
A rerian R for
1O
3tre. tneni. f the P sitio. or La or
11
E. Rt:or's or Rufor Activities More or Less on
Je  se Initistive
11
V. WAR CHI..I.ALS.
14
VI. POLITIOPL PARTIES
14
VII. ECC C.IC C I IC. A. D  CSHAS
17
Food
18
Shelter
19
Froduction o Essetisl civilian Goods
20
Uneneloyment
21
Finrnce
22
VIII. PUELIC ATTITUDES
23
APPE DIX -- CALE DAR CF PHI CIPAL EVENTS

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.94)
THE CCOUPATIO. CF JAPAN
Report 3 verie the Period
Au ust 26 to Novemper 20. 1945
I. LANIG, PLOY  SULIDATION
on Aust
reeninemonths
of war, the Ateris  rhire Fie t under com and of Admiral
Helsey arep ed a ehor ia Ba shi Bey ir the opening move of
 swiftly developing plan ef cce ation. At o9oo/I on
Aurust 26 com unie tione ex rte, :fter teint delayed two
days ty ty hoons, vere  ded -t Ats.1 Airdrome 17 miles
west of Yoxoheme, f lowee trrer tours later by 38 trans-
ports c: rryi combrt trous, sup lies ena equipment. The
next twe seye svin teen s et in rdyin the eirfield and
reco moiterine th e rrounein ares, large-scele landings of
Righth Army 1lth Aircorne Division tre ps were pegun at 06o0/I
on Au ust 30, 40- en ol : e lo ds uescending et 3-minute inter-
vels throughout the y. Si ultaneously the 4th Marine
Re imentel Combat Team uneer com and f Rear Admiral Bedger
lanaed nd took osresston  Yososuke avel Base. At 14o0/I
General of the Arny MecArthur, accoenied cy Lt. General
Sutherlend end Lt. General sichel er er, landed at Atsug1
nd, recee i to Yokon, estliene teporary headquarters
in the lew Grane Hotel.
Two ays lster, o Serte er 2, the surrender documents
were si med ebserd the u.s.S. Xissouri and General Order
Numoer 1, recuiri ll J anese forces at home and abroad
to ley own their ras n suemit to the directions of the
Allied suthoritics,  issuethe Japcenese Imperial
Generel Headouerters y coena of the Eeror. General
MacArthur presiued st-r isi cerenenies et the American
Enpasey builcis in Toxyo on Septenser 3, ana on September
17 moved his necdquarters to Toayo na tock r sidence in the
Enbessy. The rentider r Septemter saw the Eighth Army,
under con and of General Eichelber er, with headquarters at
Yokohema, extend its control over nortnern Honshu and Hokkaido,
while the Sixth Army, under connand of Generalkrueger, with
headquarters at Wakeyane, assuned control in southern Honshu,
Shikoku and Kyushu. By the first or October our forces were
firmly established throughout Janan. General MacArthur's
Headouarters, esteblished in Tokyo as both General Headquarters
of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers and General
Headquarters United States Army Forces Pacific, included:
Lt. Generel R. K. Sutherland, Chief ef Staff, and Brigadier
General E. F. Fellers, Military Secretary; Major Generals
S. J. Chamberlain and R. J. Marshal, Deputy Chiefs of Staff;
MeJor General C. A. Willoughby ana Erigadier Generals W. E.
Chambers and H. E. Eastwood as Assistant Chiefs of Starf;
and Brigadier General W. E. Crist, Chief of the Government
Section. British, Soviet, Chinese and Australian liaison
officers were accredited to Allied Headquarters.
II. THE

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.93)
-2-
II. THE HIGASHI-KURI ANL SHIDEHARA GOVLRNNENTS
On August 1 the Governme..t cr Kantaro SuzukI, which
na arrnn ed Javan'ε surrender, resi ed and was succeeded
by tht f Naruriko HIGASHI-KU..I. A prince of the blood,
 te.ersl in pctive s-rvice, nd reportealy the personal
choice f the E. eror, the new Prime Minister was preeminently
cuslified to ensur co..lience Ly the Army and Navy with the
surrender orerr n to nold the armed forces snd the people
i.. co trol uuri.. the critical perio ttencant on the
arriv:l of the occurrtion forces nd first stages of disarma-
ment nd de ti ization. The menuers of his Catinet, men with
on experience i. Jrcanese Governent, were well equipped to
id hin in his tasx.
It was soc: prerent, however, tt the very qualities
of understa si nd iniluence ver the iorces of the ola
re ime which so weli cualified the Hi eshi-Kuni Cabinet for
the execution f the surrender terms rendered it incompetent
fnd ineffective for the task of democratic reforn. Directives
f the Allied Headquarters for the liberalization of Japanese
1. stitutions were beyed, put the Cesinet gave little evidence
of willinsness r ccpecity to undertaxe tasic reforms on its
own initietive, therety incurrine increasing criticisn from
press rd putlic. Generel KacArtrur's directive of October
, ci lliny, me ther this, for the remeval of the Home
Minister, c used the Catlaet sucn loss of rece that it re-
signed the followi dey.
Earor Kijuro SHTDEHARA'S Governlent, instalied on
Cctober 9, elthouh cevoid f ..ilitary teint (except the War
and Navy Ministers ret: i.eu t. ef ect Japan's delobilization),
is of mediocre quality :nu rerreserts the conservative and
cautious elenents in Jactnese rociety. (See our despatch
no. 26, Octouer . i. s). arly hopes that it might by its
actions artici te the r for..ing reguirements of the Aliies
have been dis oited. Pri.me Mirister Sridehara's reported
view that only  new I ter ret: tion ef the Co.stitution is
requireu, Foreien Minister YOSHIDa'S puulic defense of the
ld line Zaibateu, :nd Euuc: tion Minister MAEDA's reported
ruling th:t there shouit ve no tuverse aiscussion of the
Enveror ir. tne scnools. re eviuence si a reluctance to
ccept recicel reform. At first wt coned uy the Japanese
p olic, the Governnent has lost staaine both by its feilure
to initiste needed refer.s i. c.virce sf Allied cirectives and
by its ep srent lnasility to cone with urgent problems of
housing, unemployment relief, nd ine rou.ction and dis-
tription of essentirl onsulers' oods. Nevertnelese the
Shidehara Government, inciuuin  t uses  ersons who in
the psst op oset Janen'e ilitsry olicies, even though that
be their only clain to "li eralism", represents a definite
cdvance over the Hi-asni-Kuni Governnet in the hoped for
reorientstion f Jaranese :olitic:l life.
III. DE.OEILIZATION

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.97)
III. DEMOBILIZATION AND DISARMAMENT
Demobilization of the Japanese home forces was accomplish-
ed in the short scace of two months. of the 2,186, 000 men
under arms withi the Ja anese main islands on August 15 only
116,000 had not een denobilized and sent home by October 1b,
the dste erecified by General MacArthur while still in Manila.
By the end of ctober this snall residue, inaccessible in
isolated r gions of Hokkaido, Shikoku and Southern Kyushu,
or retined s caretskers, guards and demobilization units
for the troops st1ll overeees, had been reduced to 40, 000.
Although demotilization of Japanese forces in southern Korea
hes teen slewer, ceceuse f the lack of shipping facilities,
149,ooc troops hec been evacuated to Japan anddemobilized
ty November 6, end it is expected thet the remaining 21,900
will have been r turned end denooilized by November 20.
Dissolution of the Japanese Imperial General Headquarters and
Arny and Navy General Staffs was effected on September 13.
Japanese sray forces ir. otner Pacific areas at the time
of surrender are estitted oy the Ja anese War Ministry to
have totalled 3,223,000, divided as follows: China proper -
1,086,000; Manchur1a - 703,000; Form0sa - 202,000; Northern
Korea - 97,000; Kuriles - 46,000; Central Pacif1c Islands -
33,000; Saghal1en - 19,000; Bonins - 17,000. Ad add1t1onal
270,oo0 sre est1meted by the Navy Ministry to be scattered
through the bove regions. All these forces except a few
isolted etachments have been disarmed but a negligible
rroportion have been reratristeu, due to the unava1labil1ty
of shipring fcilities. Accor ine to some estimetes, bottoms
will not be sv ileble to comolete the repetri:tion of Japan-
ese milit: ry :ersonnel in the bove-named areas before the
end of 194e.
Destruction of basic Jepanese militery installations
and estaclishmente, such es lend and coest fortifications,
nav1 eni sir bases and milit:ry resesrch establishments
not needed for U. S. operational needs, has been largely
completed. Navel end auxiliary combat vessels have been dis-
armed and, as rapidly as necessary repairs could be carried
out, heve been put to work repatriating Japanese military
and, to e smsller extent, civilian personnel overseas.
Military equipment essentially and exclusively of military
use not reta1ned for intelligence purposes or as museum or
memorial pieces has been lergely destroyed, and will soon
heve ceer completely disrosed of. It is expected, that the
S,ooo aircreft remaininin the Japanese homeland on
August 15 will have een estroyed by the end of November,
except those retsined for intelligence or memorial purposee.
While considerable rogress has een made in the destruction
of ammunition and expl sives, primarily by sinking, this
aspect of disarmament has been slowed by the fact that Japan-
ese ammunition and explosives stores are dispersed through-
out the country in remote underground caves and storehouses.
It is anticipated, however, that all such stores will have
been destroyed or'ctherwise disposed of by March 15, 1946.
War plants, except those expressly permitted to convert to
the production of essential goods, have been placed under
guard pending individual examination and disposition.
IV. SOCIAL

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.86)
-4-
IV. SCCIAL, POLITICAL AD ECC.C.IC REFORM
Siult censl.t tio rrio nd destr ction of the
renntef  aI re-s. tihet two ontns heve
witreseed the i ur io swe irosram of social,
itic l refr,s  rse directivee from
wssnineter,sit esceful, demccrstic
rsrvele.t.
A. Removel f rrtrictions or the Frecdom of the
Press  nc the Enjoyment f Civil Li erties
Reovi i v rt i seu r strictions on the
freedon r te ress a enjoyment f ru.danental civil
licerties ues oruereu i  series f directives issued by
Allied Hedousrt rs uri. e S tes  nd e rly cctooer.
n Se:te.ser  tne J:ese Governe..t ::s instructed to
eli i. te  svurrme..t cre teu sarriurs to tre disseninetion
f news, to r ove itsel iroi. a rect or indirect control of
newssspers and new s cies, and to &ccord non-uiscrininatory
tres taent to ews s rvices. Three deys leter, on septenber 27,
the Governneat was oru reu to re esl ll lawe 1. using re-
strictioas on the freecom of t.e ress, lotion ictures,
Fil, telecoa. unic-tione "or ny taer for: of written or
pooken word"; rendin sc re esl f rcelent of those laws,
en r the t1 back s fr s lo9, vs to ce suepended.
 Octoter ,rr  rviutionary proportions, the
Ji cenesetorl:es  structed to surosste and in ediate
ly sust  lewe, ceerees, rarf, riances, and regula-
tieis whic. es lished, er i inec, r strictions on free-
con of tiou t, f r ii is, . sse.iy end of speech, includ-
Ing the u rertr:etee  ceussion  the Eny eror and Imperial
Istitati r ie  r te ec rlly in ver of or
inst nytity, creed or
oliticel ori ion; to i 1 oliticrl prisoners; to
slolish the secr t ol:er;  to  ove fron ffice the
Minister f Home afsire i silce f icirls res-
onsitle tor the eree. nt : eares r isti to the con-
trel t t, ee,r i ssecly.
It rerr  t ri t ensuine taree we ks that
termi tion f v rnrent eo trol was lsuffieient sf itself
to ensur  Ifretr Je anese russt. Owners end euitors who
had servec tle J:  ese il:try itnf.ily for ye: rs remained
in co trei of t.e esuine Japa.cse wepspers ne periodicsls,
nd reretionary si. ess i tersts rut ined full ower over
the 1striuticn i ews vl.t hu  rei -type paper. On
cctober 24 leti Jnese ee aer e1tore wre summoned
to Headcuarters enc i for..et ti t cert in suojects were peing
systematically i nored in the ri ss and over the radio while
others were ceine distorted or under layed. The euitors
were instructed to estsulish : free ane independent cress or
to make way for pi purs th t would. Taking matters into their
hands, the steffs of two of Js en's iesding newspepers, the
Asahi and the Yoniuri-Hcch1, densnded the resignation of the
p:pers

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.96)
pepers' directors on cherges of war responsibility and failure
to reestaulish the pep rs' ecitorial policies in support of
democratic principles. The airectors of the Aeahi complied,
although there hes ceen no idicetion of change of ownership,
but the directors of the Yomiur1 refused, with the result that
the paper was seized end is being published oy the junior
editoriel steff and printers. On October 27 Headquarters,
in an effort to bresk the control of Mitsui and other reaction-
ary interests over the istricution of newsprint and foreign-
type poper, irected the Jape.ese Government to set up an
or rization composed of (a) overnment oficials, (b) re-
present tives of ar e ene snall publishers, and (c) at least
three well known isinterested individuals to assume res-
ponsibility for the sistrisution of poper meterlals.
Herdcuartere irectives Sertemser 10 and 21 established
e code of censcrsnip for the Jaoanese press designed to prevent
the issemin tion of hews which fsils to edhere to the truth,
hich distures oulic tranouillity, which contains destructive
criticis of the Allied Powers, or which is based on mere
rumor. Within these linits, however, Japanese publications
now enjoy connlete fre dom of expression.
B. Reform of the Javanese Educetional System
Prelininary heasures for the reform of the Japanese
ejue: tionel syste were taken oy Euuertion Minister Tamon
AEDA, under the su ervision of the Civil Inforation and
Eucation Section of the Allieu He: uqusrters, in advance of
specific directives on the suuject. The Wartime Education
orainance was repealeu, milit ry trainin in any form was
or idden in the schoels, tweive prominent liveral educators
were selectet as auvisors to the Euc tion Milistry, and a
Textpook Bureau was set up within the Mi istry to undertake
the revision of textpooks and t chrs' manuals. Comparative
ly little wes one, however, to ensure the renovel of objection
atle teachig  erson el. Durin the second week in Cctober
pupils at Mito Hi her Seool i. Ic reki Prefecture and Ueno
Girls School in Tokyo went o.. strike reporteuly tecause of the
elements of milit:risn still for in part of their instruction.
Occrsionel reports continue to oe received from the rural
arees of pupi ls crilli wit wo den une and receiving other
forne of modified militery training.
Allied policies for the reform of the Japanese educational
system were putlicly oroclaimed in a directive to the Japanese
Government issued Octover 22. The directive 1nstructed the
Japanese euthorities to revise the content of all instruction
to eliminate the dissenination of militaristic and ultra-
nationalistic ideology end to emphasize 1nstruction in re-
presenttive government, international peace, and the dignity
of the individual; to remove from te ching positions career
militery personnel, persons who have been active exponents
of militarism and ultra-nationalism, and those actively
antagonistic to the policies of the occupation; and to revise
existing curricula, textbooks and teaching manuals in accord-
ance with the above principles and to prepare new instrumentali-
ties of education of suiteole nature.
on

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.97)
On October 27 Heedquerters, citing the fs1lure of the
Japanese authorities to rectify conditions at St. Paul.
University and Midale School (Rikkyo Gakuin), where during
the wer Christian menbers of the faculty and board of
directors had  een rencved, Christian services and teachings
foruidden, ane acts of vandalism conitted, directed the
Government to cunduct an inleuiate investigation of conditions
in 61 miselon universities, colleges and schools in Japan. A
further directive of october 31 described in deta1l how the
investi etion, screenin nd certificetion of present and pro-
enective teschers and ecucstional ofricials celled for by the
irective f ctocer , wes to be cerried out.
Gener 1 D. ke, Chief of the Civil Informstion and Educa-
tion Section, st ted in e ress it rview on November 16 thet
he was satisfied with the way the educ tion reforn program
wes bein effected y the Jaeanese unaer nis supervision. He
isclosed t the s me time tht s0-article series entitled
"War Guilt" was pei reparet to  ive the Japanese the true
facts of the war si. ce the Manchurian incident; that studies
vere in progress to form the basis of  program for the
ersdicetion of the naticnalistic nd militaristle aspects of
St=te Shinto; that an advisory ccuncil of leading American
and Japanese educatore wes beine fured to perfect a long-
term plan for the liberalization of J penese education; and
thit lthough erchery, certain forns of wrestling, Judo,
jujitsu and fencing he eer. rohibited as part of the school
curricula, Jacanese might form cl bs to p rticipete in these
sports. He ststed thst his tlunt session three weeks earlier
with Japanese newspeper e itors to  et them to exercise the
rights of & free ress had been foll wed by a definite improve-
ment.
C. Revision of the Japenese Constitution and Accompanying
Fundemental Laws and Ordinancee
On October 1l, foilowing the f 11 f the Hiashi-Kun1
Cebinet, Frince Fumimaro KONOYE, who had been Minister Without
Portfolio in th:t Caolhet, wes appointed by the Emperor as a
special court atteche (goyo-kakari) within the office of the
Lord Privy Seel for the pureose of preparing a draft revision
of the Constitution. Technic: lly his essinment, as ne took
ceins to explnin in e press 1nterview on October 25, was
merely to make suggestions regaroing the desirability of re-
vising the Constitution, but in f ct the Emperor had already
decided thet the Constitution should be revised and desired
Prince Konoye to prepare a preli inary draft revision. During
the next few days Drs. Soich1 SASAKI, Toru SHIMIZU and Yasaka
TAKAGI, together with other leading authorities on the
Constitution, were attached to the office of the Lord Privy
Seal to assist Prince Konoye in his task. It was reported on
November 17 that the draft revision would be submitted to the
Throne by Novenber 20.
On October 13 it was announced that Dr. Joj1 MATsUMOTO,
Minister Without Portfolio in the Shidehara Cabinet, had been
appointed

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.88)
一7-
ao sintcs by the G verraeat t. conduct investi. tions into
the rrvisior f the co :tit tio. unuer the direction of the
Prime Mi ister. Dr. K: u: t   te. th:t although formal
rescnels:litr  r visio.  the Jo stitution rested
with the Govern t clc e uis we maintained with
the fice he Lor Privy Se:. Tue Government's draft
v.te to the Privy Cou.cil for pproval,
c,ft r rucsivi ite senction would pe sub-
it e to the t in tt tr  tn In risl Reecript
cou. t rs! ea y the Misturs  S te.
The next tr. s vit esses  lively iscusslo. of all
phr ses r th  tter y J snese co.stit tional authorities
n putlicisis. Dr. tsuxicni i cbE st ted in an interview
o.. Cctoter le ..  mt ie cot ii..e tne resent Co..stitution
i onsistent vith true uemocr: tie v rnaent, and thet the
rolem ws  e  it r ti epiic:tion than of
vislon,  view r ertculy nelu y Frime xilister Shidehara.
Dr. Yasuzo S. Zuki, n tne tner hand, .ei. teined in e series
or nevsp'r rs articles on octos r i, i7  cu le tn t revision
-f the Co stit tion wes esse tir, vi.ic.. o i. ion apsears to
ue shered y  . rert mejrity : tht thi xi putlic. At the
same ti.e he, tgether vitn Dr. ksstichi RCYAMA, Dr. Toshiyoshi
:TYAZAWA nd t. Fr uthorities, stronly isap roved placing
: r sro.sici lty for : It rin the Cstitotion in the cffrice
f the Lor Frivy Seal, i :'ti. tart ro: osed amendments
to the Co stittion siouis  ve the widest disc ssion so that
they mey reresent the vies f tae eo le. Regarding the
role f the Diet once  ur :t revlsion has teen supmitted to
It, Dr. Miyazawa : rrued th t the Diet could celete provisions
from the ar ft cut coule n't roc s: nev o.es, w.ile Dr. Sasaki
int ine th t the Dit culd l  rve or reject and connot
:.end.
It was renorte ov r  t t Dr.  tsumeto anu the
com itter of t rts (co itie i Ic iry into the question
f Costi ti l Re ra) wie m e ite to aiu him
i. his tesk  e rlete  r  ex imation uf the suuject
"end werere i tsiuer tio. f uet: ile". Dr.
Motsumote st te ts: cill revi in te c.. titution might
se sutnitiec o te extr r i r sssio I tne Diet in the
 rine of 1. e ut tt, s e ki ror i l, ne nopea thet
ore tia woul e al wee. It wus pis i ression th t the
vesti tionsi coucted . the I ice of the Lord Privy
3 wouls e i it t general principles, na weuld not
roceed to the 1.t 1 cohcr te rossals.
Investi  tions lsok1. to the revision of fundamentel laws
nu Inperial oraine.ces sup le..ent ry to the Constitution,
notably the lew of the Houses, the rui.ance Concerning the
Houre of Peers enu the Law of Electio. of the Mempers f the
House f Reprcsent: tives, were unuertaken toward the end 1
Sept mber, but cnly those studies whicn relate to the Election
Law have been fornally continuec. A Co ttee I Incuiry
into

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.96)
into the Diet System estaclished within the Diet at the
instance of the Higashi-Kuni Government on September 29
was dissolved by the Shidehara Cebinet on October 12.
A Diet Investigstion Assoc1&tion also established toward
the end of Septerber, composed entirely of members of the
House of Represent:tives, has net only sporadically. De-
finite recom end: tions have been ap roved by the Cabinet,
however, for the revision of the Election Law, which is
to ce sutnitted to en extrsordinery sessior of the Diet
to be neld Nove ber 27 to December 14. It was announced
on Moverter 3 oy Home Minist r Zenjiro HoRIkIRI that these
recommene tions include extension f the vote to men and
women o yers o se r over (19 ty western count).
eli ioility of ren end wo en 25 yerrs of age for elective
office, enl:rgeuent of the voting districts, a limited
lural vetie svete, and essine f re ulations governing
electorsl c: nsigns. With the pesssee of the election re-
vision bill na ther ur ent le isletion the Government is
exrected to ie olve the Diet. Votint in the Jenuary 1946
elections is to oe bssed n the results f the regular
governme.ts1 census to be completed by November 2o. It has
Been rerorted th t the new Diet will be celled into extra-
ordinary session rrout Jnuary 20, 1946.
D. Democratization oI Jepenese cconomy
Decentrelization v: Cwnership end Control in Industry
Publication in the J: anese press on September 25 or
Americen policies for the democratization or Japanese economy,
as stated in SWNCC 150/4/A, "United Ststes Post Surrender
Policy Relrting to J an", toetner with the statements of
General MacArthur on the subject, was following during
October by the ennouncement f "volu t ry" reorgenization
plans by Japan's lesdinf financial, conmercial and industrial
cligerches (Zaibatsu).
The first such plan, tht f the Mitsuoishi interests,
announced n October 7, was s perficial in character, call-
ing merely for the r t rement f certein older fficials
"generelly believed as more r less responsible for the war".
B ron Koyeta IWASAkI and Hikoyata IWaSAkI were to remain as
chairmen and president,respectively, of Mitsubishi Honsha,
"due to the reeson thst the Mitsuoish1 interests are run on
the basis of the faxily system". A pr posed reorganization
of the Miteui interests announced October 12, reportedly
due to ressure exerted by younger fficials within the
orgenization, was also of a moderete nature, calling merely
for the resignstion of certain directors, reduction of bonuses,
etc.
On Cctober 15 the Chief of the Economic and Scientific
Section f the Allied Headquartere informed a group of
American and foreign correspondents that the Allied authorities
intended to drive home to the Japanese that war was not profit-
able, and that complete dissolution of the Zaibatsu was
desired

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.98)
desired. Four days lster, on October 19, Foreign Minister
Yoshida publicly defended'the old-line Zaibatsu (Mitsui,
Mitsubishi, etc.), ststing that they had opposed the war,
thet they had suffered hevily es a result ofthe conflict,
nd that their continued existence was important to Japan's
economic survivel. He exeressed surprise that the older
Zaibatsu apre red to be the main object of attack of the
American authorities instead of the new (Shin) Zaibateu,
which had sctively supported a war policy snd had earned
large wertine rofits. Three days La ter his remarke were
reoudipted ty the Government in a joint statement or the
Finance end Commerce and Industry Ministers. It was
announced thet the Japanese Government had not opposed,
and would not in future oppose, the fundamental principles
of the Allies rerarding the reorgenization of the Zaibatsu,
adding thet the Governnent would t ke :ppropriate steps in
regerd to their voluntery dissolution.
On October 1 the botrd of directors f the Yasuda
Konzern, ep arertly convinceu thet nothin short of complete
licuidstion would s tisfy the occuction euthorities,
announced a lan of eneral uissolution. The plan called
for (1) retirement of Hajima YAstDA and all other members
of the Yasuda family from positions of responsibility in the
Yesuda enterprises; (:) uissolution of Yasuda Hozensha, the
central control organ; () temporery placement of the
securities of the Honshe na sucordinate companies in the
hands of a trust a ency for sale to the puolic at the earliest
oracticable time; end () resi tion of the chairmen, presidents,
managing directors anu other high fficials of the firms con-
trolled by the Yasuda clioue so that these firms would be free
to appoint new erson el. Two days later, on October 18, 1t
was reported that the Mitsui, Mitsubishi and Sumitomo interests
were considering similar plens of dissolution.
On October  the Allied Heedquarters directed the Japan-
ese Government to recuire fifteen of Jepan's largest concerns,
listed by name in the directive and including members of both
the old and the new Zaibatsu, to submit detailed reports con-
cerning every phase of their activities to the Headquartere.
On October 23 it wes announced that "a majority of Japan'e
State Ministers" hed recommended the adoption of an anti-trust
law in Japan "to end capital and price monopoly that hinders
free competition" and "to prevent one person from occupying
posts in meny concerns". On October 27 a plan of dissolution
almost identical with that earlier announced by Yasuda Konzern
was adopted by the Mitsui interests, while the Mitsubishi
announced a plan of a somewhat more moderate nature. On
November 1, the fifteen concerns named in the directive or
October 22 were directed that no sale, trade or ther transfer
or adjustment of the cepital stocks, bonds, debentures, voting
trust or other forms of their subsidiary or affiliated firms
was

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.98)
-10-
was to be made without the trior approval of the Allied
Headquarters.
On November 6 the arallel studies of the Allied Head-
querters and the Ja anese Government in consultation with
the Zaibatsu heads came to fruition with the approval by the
Heedquarters of e plan submitted by the Japanese Government
for the dissolution of the Mitsui, Mitsubishi, Sumitomo and
Yasuda firms. Ap the same time that it accepted the plan,
however, the Headquarters directed the Japanese Government
to submit promptly for approvel y the Supreme Commander its
progren for (1) the dissolution of other industrial, commercial,
finarcial nd asricultural co bi.es in addition to those named
in its proposal, (2) the aoro stion of all lawe and regulations
which foet r private monopoly, end () the enactment or new
lawe to prevent privete monopoly nd restraint of trade. The
Japsnese Government was rurther directed to terminate and
orohioit Japanese participation in private international cartels
or other restrictive rivate i termational contracts or arrange-
ments. Previously, on October 30, & Hesdcuarters directive re-
quiring the Governnent to subnit statement of the nature and
current value of the Incerial prooerties had been answered with
the informetion thst the sia properties had a total value or
1.5 billion yen, divided: cash and ne otiable securities -
336 million yen, land - 362 million yen, timber - 593 million
yen, and vuildihgs - 299 million yen. It was explained that
information regeruing art trcesures, jewelry and gold and
silver bullion belonging to the Emperor, and regarding the
properties of the 14 Imperial Princes, both of which had been
onitted fron the ebove survey, would be submitted later.
Agrarian Reform
Maximum ferm preduction and ef icient distribution of
farm produce have of course been the  rimary concern of the
occupation euthorities in the egricultural field in view of the
food shortege. Nevertheless the Japanese Government was given
to underetand informelly t an e rly stage thst agrarian reform
was considered en essential part of the Allied program for the
enocratization of Japenese economy. This was made even clearer
on November 9 when the Government was requested to present to
the Headouarters on or before December lo its proposed plans for
dealing with such agrarian problems as farm tenancy, farm
indebtedness, farm credit, interest on farm loans, rental charges
on tenant operated lands, farm taxes and the cost or farm supplies.
Almost simultaneously with the receipt of this directive the
Japanese Government announced intention to present an Agrarian
Reform Bill to the forthcoming extraordinary sess1on of the Diet.
It was stated that this bill, now in preparation, would call
for the foreible purchase by the Government of landlord holdinge
in excess of the "appropriate limit" or 1.o chobu (3.7 acres)
in the southern 1slands and 3 chobu (7.4 acres) In Hokkaido.
The purchese price would be that set by the Extraordinary Land
Price Control Law, plus a subsidy of about 150 yen per tan
(.245 acres)

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.94)
(.?45 ecres). The land thus purchaseu would be turned over
to the tenents, who, wiile payin a reduced annual rent to
the Gcvernment, woulc co tribute a eiven amount each year
for twerty-four ye rs towere the purchese of the land. At the
enc of that ti e, i the peyments had peen met, the property
would be trsrsferred to the tenants in full title.
Strengthe i or the Position of Labor
Elii tio f srive  or ie isl:tion, and preli.inary
sters louki: t the e e'ment f new le isl tion which would
rrors positive rot ctien to Jap ese lasor in its right to
ore rize cne to e e i: -e: iti te union activities, have
een effectec s  r sult  irormel ircussions with Japanese
orficisls r er then by the sr ence t s ecific directives.
He douart ro a counce? or vember lo thet eighu Japanese
lebor control laws, i.cludine the National Labor Mobilization
ordinance and the rui..e..ce for the Management or L bor in
Major Factories, nad peen suro:te, und tht there were no
longer in existence in Japen sny Laws or regulations which in-
fringed the ri hnt f asor to en e in unionization activities.
by the seme te e, e rele: se co.ti.mec, there was no le1sla-
tion in existe ce wnic: eff-rdeu .e :l cr tection to unions and
le iti.. te union activities.
It vas reported e rly in Nove iber that a Lapor Law Investiga-
tion Co..it ee withi. the Welf: re Mi. istry hed begun work on
the rrftin f : mew lacor union lsw, t be sutmiited to the
Cr Inet eorly in Decenter. The new law whcse primary cbject,
it wes st: te., will be t: romote the heslthly development
of labor unions, is to provide for the estsblishment of legel-
ized artitr tion com. issic.s, a : cor court and wage comaiitees.
Pencing enectnent f the lew, the e fere Mi istry on November
l0 ordere: the prefccturel everrore to organize Labor Arbitra-
tion Co.. itteee, ccn osed f n ccuel numoer of representtives
abor, rangement end the sur ic, vitin their respective pre-
: ctures.
In the meantime r or t izatlon i various leeding pre-
wer unions, inclucing the Ja a. Sesmen's Union, the Tokyo
Transport Workers' Union an the T Gas Workerst Union,
hes been renerted. Ori:nizationel csai ns,it is statec, ere
tein conducted emon. rilwey worm-rs, ishermen, school-
teachers, f raers en? workers in s wice variety of other occupe-
tions.
E. Reforms or Reform activities ore or Less on
Jacanese Initi&tive
The Shidehera Gevernuent hes anounced intention to effect
a nu ber of reforns concucive to the developnent of a perce-
ful, democratic stete nst specifically directed by the occupa-
tion authorities. At the same time groups of private individuals
have banded together to for organizations in support of pro-
ressive ceuses. The uitimete nature of the proposed reforms,
mest of which ere still in the planning stage, and the sincerity
of

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.96)
12
of purpose rc effectiveness o tue r anizations, will be
revealed by fut. re events.
Electio.. o: Prefecture1 Gov rnors Home Minister Horikiri
ennounced on Cctoter ao th t it is the Gov rnment's intention
to provide r the epuler election of refectural governors,
ane thet   sire to this effect wili be introduced in the
extraordinary session of the Diet scneduled for next January
so that  u ernotorial elections y pe neld by February or
March. It was a mounced on Novenser 3 thst, eccording to
or sent lens, v raors will e electe for four years --
it has net ceen ceciuet whether oy direct vote or indirect
election y the refectural : ssenlies -- and will pe assisted
uy vice- overnors ep oi..teu frou fficials experienced in local
affairs. Plans for the revision  the prefectural assembly
structure ane : or the eiection I mayors in the larger cities
have lso peen reporteu.
Revision  the Peers Law It was announced on October 27
thst Prince Konoye and Marouis Yoshicnika TokUGAWA had taken
formal steps for the renuncietion f their peerage and titles
of honor. Two dsys later Count Ari..& publicly criticized Prince
Konoye snd Marcuis Tokugewa for the individualistic way in
which they ha eteu to divest theaselv:s of their titles, end
I unched  n e ent for the reli..cuishaent of privileges by
all menbcrs of the peerage. Not long erter, Prince Higashi-Kuni
and Prince Tsuneneri KAYA ex resseu a desire to return their
honors and "descend" to the st tus f "coumoners". On November
1 it was ennounced th:t the Iimperial Household Ministry had
eprointed & Delicer tive Courcil of the Board of Peerage and
Heraldry for the rurpose of revising the Peers Law. The Council
is exoected to recom .end th t the rivileges associated with the
ceerage systen, es, for exa. le, the  ranting of Imperial
ifts to aged Peers, the neredit ry eg cy systen, and the
pranting of srecisl nrro'r: tione lor Peers descended from
former Court noules,  stre:tec, cut is not expected to
recommend abolition o: the five titles of the Peerage. Mean-
while the Government is reported to pe considering the question
of the serts te te sccunieu uy the  eers in the Upper House or
the Diet.
Abolition f the orfice of the Lord Keeper of the Privy
Seal  It was anrounced on November 15 that the Government and
court circles hee & red on lans for the acolition of the
Office of the Lord Keeper of the Frivy Seal. The step, it
was ststed, would te taken some time after November 20, when
Prince Konoye, attached to the Of ice, is expected to complete
his report to the Enperor reearaing revision of the Constitution.
Baron Kiichiro HIRAnUMA declareu in explenation of the action
th: t "democratization of Japan shoula begin with the elimination
of all elements thst have usuroed the government in recent years
by irt rrosing themselves tetween the Enperor enu the people"
(s1c).
Revision of the Judicial System The Capinet decided on
November 9 to establish within the Ministry of Justice a
counoil to submit recomnendations for the revision of the judicial
system

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.96)
-13-
systen "in accordence with the new situstion".
Liberalization ef the Civil Service Systen It was
announced on Novenber 15 that the Catinet had further decided
to undertske  fundementsl revision of the civil service system
to el1 inete nepotism nd unfairness end to improve efficienoy.
The present exaination system is to te revised, the Kotokon,
Haninkan nd Soninkan classi ic:tio.s are to be apolished, and
the existing system f ronctions and salary increases is to
ce liberalized.
Feaeretion f Press workers Unions Preliminary steps for
the forirtion of a Federation f All Japan Press Workers
Unions were taken at a leeting of ress unions representatives
on Cetober 31. The followine uay the preparatory commission
of the Fedcretion, vwhese stated curpsse is "to democratize
newspepers in Japen in accoruance with the new situstion", sent
e messge of encouragement to the workerst union of the Yomiuri-
Hoch1, now en strike ageinst the ceper's executive authorities.
Wonen's Or anizations The New Japan Women's Union and the
Jrpen Women s Co reretion Asscci: tion were formally organized in
Tokyo on Noventer ? nd  respectively. The stted objectives
of the former orgsnization, under the  e dership of Fusaye
IcHIKAwA, Janan's lesdin wonen's surirage avocate, include
reslization of femsle suffrsge, politicl eaucation of women,
anpointment of women to esvernment osts, :nd abolition of
lewe discriminating arsinst women. The second orgenization,
led by Tamayo MIYAGI, vife of the for.er Justice Minister,
replaces the defunct Japen Women's Asroci: tion, and is expected
to embrace all existin town nd village women's associations.
Cultural and I tellectual Societies A considerable number
of crivate cultural  nc intellectual societies have been formed
for the announced purpese of rootins liceral, demccratic re-
form in Japan. Aron these mi ht be mentioned the Society for
the study of Co stitatlo..sl Reforim, compose. of lecuing writers
enc scholsrs, the Alericrn Culture Assoeiation, composed or
usiness men, er i eers, : vernment fficiels, newspapermen
and scholers who heve studied or woraed in the United States,
enc the Society I Ja nese I..tel ectu: ls, cosposed of lead-
in scientists end university  roressors. The last nened society,
it is stated, "c recttes uitre- tio.slism, ailitariem, feudalism,
ca iaperirliem, nd will erueaver to recuild Jepan on a pro-
ressive nt eceiul bssis y crti a new Jabanese culture
on demscratic and humanitarirn pri ciples".
Birth Control For: tion of the New Japan Population
Policy Comnittee uncer the ea ership f Dr. Yoshio FuRuYA,
Chief of the Scientific Section of the Welfare Ministry
Institute, w-s announced on October 30. The Committee has de-
clared thit the pre-wer popul: tion policy furthered militariem,
and thet Jspen must edopt "a sound population policy". On
November 15 Beroness Ishinoto (now Mrs. Kanju KaTo),leader of
the birth control movement in Jroan during the early end miadle
thirties and the firet women to announce her cenaidacy in the
coming general election, announced plans to open a birth control
clinic near her house in Tokyo.
V. WAR CRI.INALS

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.95)
- 14 -
V. WAR CRI.IALS
The ariet f  ver crinin ls sutnects, headed by General
Hideki ToJc nc including the entire "Pe: rl Haroor" Cabinet,
wes ordered ly Gerer: 1 Mecarthur on September 1l. General Tojo
was placed uncer the care of the U. S. Army Medical Corps after
attemptins suicide. Others on the list who were im.ediately
arrested or ve themselvee up shortly efter were: General
Mesaharu HCMMA, commander in the Philipines at the time of the
Batasn de th msrch; Ge., ral Shi en ri KuRoDa, successor to
Goneral Homne rs comnander-in-ci ief in the Philippines;
Colorel SuzukI, ormcrly in comnd  the Shinagawa War Prisoners
Camp;  na Colonel Kin oro HaSHIMc To of Panay Incident fame.
anunt others Later orü-red as renendea were General Kenji SAwADA,
M: Jor HATA  nd Lt. WAMITSU, arrested October 15 reportedly be-
csse of their connection with the execution near Shanghai of
three Doclittle flyers, and Genki ABE, Home Minister in the
Suzuki Catin t, arrested on cctober s. A spokemen for the
Le:1 Section of Gereral Headquarters stcted on October 22 that
the total number trieu for wer crimes com itted in the Pacific
rer miht reach 4000.
On Nove.per 17 the Jepenese Governnent was ordered to
arrest and deliver to the Sugamo Prison Camp the following
major Japanese war criminel suspects: Sadao ARakI, Shigeru
HONJO, KazunoLu YAiOKCGI, Kuni:ki KOIsO, Fusanosuke KUHARA,
Yoshihisa KUZUU, Yosuke aTSUCKa, Iwane aTSUI, Jinzaburo
LAZAKI, Jiro MIiAlI and Tosnio SHiHaTCRI. Tnese men, believed
to have been smong those ri...arily resporsiule for the
aggressions of 1: 31, 1357 n 19e1, will ce held (except
Shigeru Honjo who coanittec suicice on Koveiber zo) with
others earlier srrested, r vho ay ce apprehended in future,
for triel y :n int rns tional tricunal.
VI. FOLITICAL PARTIES
The terminetion of vilit ry ce trol and removel of re-
strictions on freecom of ex r ssion snd : ssembly has presented
Japan for the first tine in its history with opportunity to
evolve e enuine  arty form of ov rnment. During the past
two months at lerst three arties ivin promise of future
importance, end a lerge menter of smaller groups, heve been
forred andhave been con etine for , opular support in anticipa-
tion of the elections scneuleu for next Januery. Up to the
present time, however, the population as & whole, politically
inexnerienced nd reoccupied with prebles of livelihood,
appears to have teken only crsuel inter st in party activities.
The Sociel Democr:tic Party of Japan
The Sociel Democr:tic Party of Japan (Nippon Shakai-to),
one of the most active of the new political  roups and the
first to be fornally organized, on November 2, originated with
the decision of a group of twelve Diet membere shortly after
surrender to form a united proletarian party. Among the party's
original

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.93)
-15-
originel founders, ur soon attracted to its ranks, were wuch
well known proletarien lesders of the past as Isoo ABE, Bunj1
SUZuKI, Toyohiko KaGAWa, KsnJu KaTo, Motojiro SuGIYAMA,
Chosaturo MIZUTANI and Komakichi MalSuOkA, 1ts newly elected
heed. Although the party embraces many divergent elements it
hes mena ed to voil splittin into secarate factions, the usual
fate of Japanese prolitsrian perties in the past. The party
platform, mer s ecific then tret of eny other politicel group,
colls for decoer tization of the Co stitution; ebolition of
the Peerage, the Privy Courncil, and the power of the "elder
stetesmen"; co fie: tion of wertie crofite; materialization
of  socialistic, cl nneu eco momy; n tionslization of the
Iron snc steel, c al, electric vower, ertificial fertilizer
end cther basie ihuustries sne of ll oanks, trust companies
nd insurance co ies; est lisment of a Lepor Ministry;
lelizetion f r unions;inimum age le1sletion; a 48
hour week; eople's dipio cy;  new Japanese national
culture. Its a rrienreer ie r ther vegue, calling for
"conlete raf r. o: the a rari systen", mechenization or
ariculture,rizationraersand fishermens
co reretiver. Suc surece, ecut rights for women, and
ytesion  teif coul sory ecuction are other
turesitsrorAlthsu the Socialist platform
nakes noatior te eror or the Iurerial institution,
1• wes r-rortee n : ove cr 17 t t the porty will support
the Enperor syet s rt  theovernnent out will confon
to the ecnle's ecisic. ifn w plebiscite is held on
the issue. Frea the ciet  view ueth f personael and
program the Sociclist Perty ser...s to offer the most hope for
politic: 1 nd economie refor s in Japan, and appers to be
attr cting to its r: nks more perrons of enuinely liserel
viewpoint thn any other roup.
The Liserel Perty of Japan
The Li erai Party i Jaoan (Niopon Jiyu-to) was the
second of the mor oro inent  rties formally oreanized, on
November 9. Its lt  er, Icniro HAlcYAMA, is a professional
rolitican and Diet memuer of lo. standing, having been
yecutive director of the Seiyukal. Although once chier
secretsry of the Giichi TaaKA Ce inet, end reportedly one or
the orgnizere of the N tionslistic Vet-rens' Associ tion,
he mees not eppear to neve t-ken en active part in the pro-
secution of the wer. Perty mempere and supporters consist
primrily of professional pclitic.s, with & sprinkling of
writers, Journalists, diplomats end professors. Of the
oresent Ca inet, Welfare Minister Hitoshi ASHIDA and Wataru
NARAHASHI, Chief of the Cebinet Le isl:tive pureau, are
members.The party numbers fifty mempers of the present
Diet emong its edherents.
The Liceral Party is strongly pro-Emperor and Imperial
institution

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.96)
and violently anti-Com unist. Principal points in its plat-
form are preserv:tion of the "national polity"; "national
unity and international faith"; revision of the Constitution
"aiming at the neintenence or the fundamental national character";
"elimintion of economic cotrols except those voluntary controls
which ere apsolately iuispensccle"; authority of the House or
Represent: tives; arantees of humen rights; recognition of the
leg1 ststus of loor; refor of the bureaucracy; and election
of refecturel governore. Japnese of liberal view have ex-
pressed ciseneointient in the p: rty, finding in it little real
liberalisn -- indeed, it woul se better termed Conservative
than Li eral --, no ir snnes of viewpoint, and a lack or
virileedershio.
The Propressive Party or Japan
The Pro ressive Perty of Japar (ippon Shimpo-to), formally
or nized o Noveer lc, represents an anelgamation of factions
of the former Gre t Jepan Political Associt tion (Dai Nippon
Seiji-Kpi), successor to Jacan's wartine totalitarian party,
the Imneril Rule assistance assuci tion. Its leaders, such
en as Chuji AcHIDa (ni Taxao SaITo, are for the most part
rofessional cliticins neit elacorte political machines.
Moters  the r- t J-an Poitic1 Association divided
into two  in f ctions rellowine the Associ tion's dissolution
shortly e ter surrender. One roup, made up of members of the
l AHn  AknoIn cti in the former Minseito and
Seiyukai perties, reterteuly supportea General Kazushige UGAkI
for Teadershio o the party, anu the other, Prince Konoye. Re-
cently these 1I: etions, whici nad shown indications of develop-
ing into sear te arties, reunited to form the Progressive
Party. Iavit: tions to the for..al organization proceedings on
Novemper 16 were issueu by le3 rormer Seij1-Ka1 menbers of the
Diet, who thus pecame the charter memuers. Principles
auvocateu cy the p:rty incluce support of the "national polity";
eosolute oprosition to comunism; co.mclete free enterprise;
refora of the Constitution to est ulish democratic goverment;
reforn of the juciciery; morl ciplomacy; uarentees of the
people's livelihoou; fihancial r trenchment; and solidarity or
lopor end cepitel. It is uosutful whether any effective leader
ship for the construction 1 a mew Japen can be expected from
this roup, which reoresents reectionary political opinion of
the extreme right.
The Connunist Party of Japan
The Japanese Communist Party is capaply led by Kyuich1
TOKUDA and Yoshio SHIGA, releaseu from prison in accordance
with General MacArthur's oruer of October 4 after 18 years
confinement. Like the Chinese Communists, the party advocates
an interim period of "democracy", expecting true comunism
only in the distant future, and denies association with Soviet
Russia. It is the only party definitely committed to the
abolition of the Imperial institution. Other features of its
twenty-five point platform, announced on November 10, include
confiscstion without compensetion of all land held by absentee
landlords

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.95)
-17 -
landlords to be turned over without cost to the farmers; rent
reduction; menagement of principal industries by the workers;
amalgametion of all banks in one netional bankunder popular
management; sovernment cy a People's Republic; full employment
through shorter hours; complete freedom of speech, assembly,
puclicstion, religion and public denonstretion; and popular
nerticipstion in Constitutionel revision.
On ctober le the Comiunists porosched the Social Democratic
Perty with e prop:sal for a united Fopuler Front. The Socialists
enswered th t it wes too e rly for complete collaboration, but
thet once the certies w-re well esteulished they would be pre-
arec to ccoperste. More recently Communist efforts for the
esteclishment of a populer front heve taken the form of a
craign for the for etion of cnapters of a "People's Emancipation
Lerrue" (Jinmin Kaiho Renmei)coneisting of the Comnunists,
the lower rnks f the Sociel Deascr tic Party, and other left-
vi, proleterien croups. The Lea ue will not stress long-range
Jomunist jectives, such as the auolition of the Euperor system
t the estselishment of e People's Government, but will seek
to rromote com.on policies on s ecific issues, such as food,
uner loyment  nd a rarian reforn. While the Communists are now
more vociferour then nu erous, rel e economic distress will
inevitecly increase tneir i fllence.
Minor Politieal Groups
The Jenanese Goverment s esteclisned no procedure for
the r istr: tion r puiitie1  rties, witn the result that new
rouss are co stently spri in up. At Lat st count there were
3 separte parties ex ecti to put uo cancicates in the coning
eneral electione, sone repr seting only : hanuful of people,
some on the "lun tie tri e". The foliowin titles are pre-
sent tive f the vide variety oi org izations which have appeared:
Snin Nihon-to (ev J: an Party).
Seinen Trishu-to (Youn Men's Masses Party).
Nihon Minseito (Janan P ople's Life Party).
Jiji Kominto (Sel: Jvernin Eseror's Suojects Party).
Seinen Jiyuto (Youn Men's Li eral Party).
Shin Nippon Kalushin-to (New Japan Reform Party).
Rikken Seinen Shinpo-to (Constitutional Young Men's
Proressive Party).
Nihon Jiji Noin-to (Jrpan S-lf Jovernine Farmers
P: rty).
VII. ECONO IC CO.LITIO.S AND PROGRAMS
Messures for the reform of Japan's political, social and
economic life, enu the or tnization of the new political parties,
heve been cerrie out in anenvironment of mounting economic
distress. Shortages f rood ane other necessities have become
increesingly severe, millions are without adequate shelter or
emrloyment, snd the nation's fiscal and financial position has
become increasingly precarious.
Food

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.86)
-1-
Food. The Jenrese euple, on short rations throughout
the w r, wre furth r restricteu in July of this yeer when
te bs1 st: le foe  tisn vr reuced from 2.3 to 2.1 go
(. o  cuels 1 pound), to tice ver until the harvest.At
the e tie, coihcisent with the tion s deteriorating
lilit ry situntion, su stitutes uc le to form an increasing
sort the  ily ri.is  t ules allotments
e so eto  I icecte.When the
vi forer n i september they found the
ole sufri r.   e t catity f foud, ut
even ner, rr c u tive it le. iciencies.
Reeiie ration r 2.3
s teen r vere icri le te vorst rice crop in thirty
cix ve re. ri i li : tr, o. the casls of the situation
Ies t eviur ive ye re, the crop has
urne te  i t tons end rloods during
ite Se te t I ctober. Estinetes ro
vice the He tcaer  t. e  rtent f mgriculture and
For stry  Rove r iaee the crop at .O nillion koku.
ter crocs, si i:rly crme e., re cise far pelow normal.
leck merirt  ic e r itt rices, beyond the reach
of lar e rop rtion  tne uren popul tion, relain essential
to  reasoaaely tcecut te sousis tcnce. It s reported that
9co, oco s ns sarmet .t f To.yo ito Chiur end Saitama
Pr-feciures ver t.e we. f ve. er . to uuy vegetacles
or their  c..su. tio or ror  le on tre bitck market.
Specir1 treins were rovided to ccs..su: tt the crowd, which
rought ps ex ver .o milliun pouus oi sieet cot: toes and
other rouucts. The Pisni er tch, though recently restored to
 vercent f t.e r-vr r.al, has also ueen preventca by
the poerly functieniistri ution end retionine eystem from
reaching the pri: ci 1 co sin cent rs. The Government
nrouncec n  vaer  t t  s ecial allotment of 3 pounds
of sweet eot toes will te  trlsuted cer person during Novemser
in Jasen's seven ri i  eities, tut this is reardeu purely
 : stop-. rp essure. "Hun er areues" were helu in Tokyo
rirg Hovencer, cne e tns fro melnutrition, usally cotined
viti ey sure, ere re. orte peourrin acily.
Re-lisis thst es  rv tion s 1. evit Lle next spring
1o st ffs w re nut i crtec on e re sctle, the Japanese
Jovernnt las su itte  sries  esti et s f lou Laports
r cuire.ents. Ti.e irrt cuen veti ate, subitted Septemser 29,
c llc or million tric ton f josusturrs to maictein an
vere e c ily er c pit ce su. tion of clo celories. When
it was i Gie: te  t leo e lr es was closer to wh t could
:e exuected, the Gov,ruent esti :tet the na'ion's recuirements
at thet level t 7.3 illion tone. This ri ure has sice seen
raisea to a. illion tons t a co srcuence of the revised crop
"stinstes. Prime Mi ist r Sh Gehara If rmed the ress on
Hoventer 7 thst (isc ssions witn Herdquertere on the matter ad
reeched "the det:ils st es", witi the principal question at
issus the mat ri:is Japn is to rovide in payment (in accordence
with

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.90)
-19-
with the Headquartere' directive f cctoter l0 on this subject.)
He etsted th t the Governient was u-ie everythine possible to
ensure the availatility . suf.icient cut..tities f silk and other
products, but tht J:pen woulu nave to uepend on Allied vessels
to tr nepert v tever i ports were er ttea. Poor crops in
zur s, Sicm Fnu I do-C.ina, he suuee, - irtncr co.mplicete the
role. An itiut rpr ior the aximization f old pro
auction to incresse Jasc's ioreiurc.asi power was announced
oevencer i, e it s recently rvesleu thst tne Enperor had
erec t co tri te Im erial Jewels e rt tre:sures to help
 orreeceos inports.
In al efort toth t incre sestic a roduction for
t..e f t re p r vide employient for J:ven's dcnocilized service
en, the Ceit n Hoveter ap roveu  ive-yerr land reclama-
tion pn coil i r ve.entan v vi , 5o,0oc ecres, drawn
u y the Vi ctry f  ricultre  For stry. Nerrly 5o per-
it of the cevelonunt, which, it s ounce, should permi
verell exoensio of the rice, tarley nd wiert output by 10
wmillion koku ennurlly, wili tes lece 1. Hoksaido. A Headquarters
ir-ctive of Novemer  istructe the Jeyenese Government to
soc lit det ils net only of this plan cut of its entire program
for meetirn the od rocuctior rocler wuring the calendar year
. Previouslv, o. oventer 7, the H: douarters hed authorized
the use of 4, scc tons of speci: 1 cteel or the manuficture of
prricultursl i.plements. Iaportec iertilizer requirements for
la46 are esti ete at :p roximately one illio. tons.
Shelt-r. The Japenese Ministry  Welf re reperted to the
Allied Hesdouarters on Nove  er ttI lion prive te Japanese
residences, comprising lt percenr if the tot: 1 nuncer of dwellings
in Japen, were Gestroyed y ir-reics  rin the vr and another
10c, 000 were parti:11y wrecked. A :dditional 500,000 - c00,000
cuil ings were lost as a result of aisnntlin, demolition,
siorm and other c: uses. Esti ti  persons t a welling,
so e ll million eople n ve wee. uriven fron their homes.While
the reater art f tnis nuer  ve su temper ry quarters
with relatives and frieus, ay  ve not veon so fortunate and
re to be seen livi i  eslft sties, in partially wrecked
 eoe o.et  ilci, t io st tis..s anu subwaye.
On Cctover , the Tocye Metropelitan Criice announced rlans
Tor the costruction of tt, occ sirle sheltere for war victins.
It wes ststed tnt e si ilar ro r hed been urawn up for
Yohohane. A week later Welf re kinist r Ashide revealed that
i vesti tions hec shewn tnese lans t se i practical because
of the cifficultiee enccunt-ret in sawin and traneporting the
cecess: ry luncer, but ded t t .ere were : cout so, ooo tons of
curalumin in stock which would ce useu for puilding purposes.
On Octcber l6, & meeting or Home Ministry end prefectural city
plenning experts was held in Tokyo at which it was agreed that
plens of cernanent recocstruction should provide for wider city
streets, lerger park ereas, snc ferro-concrete fire-proof buildings
alon the principal city streets.
on

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.95)
On Octoter 31, Ichizo KObAYASHI, former Commerce and
Incustry Minister and oresently a member of the House of
Peers, wes appoirted Milister witnout Portfolio in the Shidehara
Jacinet to serve as President i a ewly cres ted War Danages
heinsilit: tion Eoard. It wes announceu thet the Board would
u.ertake imnediate investigations into the housing problem,
but no n.teworthy results heve see. suserved to date. Although
there tas ceen cuil in, activity i. the sltller cities nearer the
sources of lu  er for sne ti...e, very little construction even
of  tcorry nt ture has seen ap arent in the lprger cities.
It is resortet tnct the Governlent will offer double rations to
construction workers in en effort to sttrcct additional labor
ir.to tre irustry.
Production of Essential Civilian uosus. Conversion or
Japan se industry to ceecetime production, although handicapped
 shorts es of sll kiads, by uncert: i ty re erding Allied dis-
crienent, r :orrtion ene tr de p licies, and cy a general
1 ssitude or the art of toth mena ement snd  tor, hes begun
i. certain fields. In some  neustries conversion is still in
the plannin. ets e, tut in sthers roduction of items of civilian
use has been resumed. Ar allieu uirective of September 28 freeing
cecifie cus tities f Ja.ese textile (except silk), steel,
l minum wire, e ther, at rubser stucks for menufacture into
needed civillan  o ds has helped to  eee the conversion process.
Nevertheless rew meterisl short es, artic larly coal, severely
li.it the smount of rocuction which cen be carried on. Comnerce
end Industry Vice-Minister TOYCDA announced on October 29 that
corl roduction had fallen to Lout 12 percent of orewar levels,
due to the r cetriation I Koreen and Chinese miners and refusal
of those not yet repatriated to continue work. He esti.nated the
Rovember coal out ut at 57t, ooc tons, sarely sufficient to meet
the requirements of the raiiways al ne. The Miike Mine, for
exe mle, which used to rocuce ls, Ouc tons  day, is now producing
only s3ó tons. Even drile on stocks, reduceu fron 3.9 million
tons t the end or the w' r to & little ver a million tons at
the resent time, little csal, he stete, would be available
darine the monthfor crivste inhuus try. In an effort to alleviate
the situation Welf re Minister Ashida met with labor section
chiefs from all over the country on Novenper 4 and arew up pre-
liminary plans to sond 6o, Ooc :uuitional workers to the mines
Ly December and another 7o, oot by next spring. Do uble retions
have teen offereu coal miners to speed recruitnent.
Matarials  orte e notwithstsuins, plrns for the production
f steadily increasing custities f  lrrge variety of articles
o daily cousumotion, nost  which have peen roduced on a much
reduced scale or not':t sll tirou hout the war, was announced
Cctoper 7 by the Ministry of Comerce and Industry. Electric
light bulbs, now virtually unobtainable, will oe menufactured,
it wes ststec,  t a rate of 1 million monthly by the end of this
year, 5 million monthly by spring of next year, and 10 million
monthly by fell of next year. Clothing, blankets, shoes, kitchen
utensils, matches, needles, umorelias, toothbrushes, electric
hert rs and stoves, radios, bicycles, end snell type motor trucks
are ther items which, it is reported, will se produced in moderate
anounts

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.96)
-21-
anounts this year cut in steadily increasing quantities next
year. Comnerce and In-ustry Minister Sankuro OGASAwARA stated
in an interview on November 14 that 2,070 smaller war plants out
of 2,4oo surveyed in Toky ha converted to the production or
civilien gode, while the reme der had either dissolved them-
selves, i continued prouuction, cr had not determined their
conversion plans. He nentioned ae one reason for the slowness
of co v rsion in certsin fielas the f ct thet nany industrialists,
accustoned to carrying on production u der government orders and
with uaranteed rofits durine the war, had loet their spirit of
initi&tive.
It was anmounce by the Micistry of Transport tion on October
?thet the Japenese merchent tleet :t the end of September com-
prised 58? vessele ag regating 1,175, 000 tons. 0f this amount
7 shins totelling 57e,Cou tons w re either in the Southern
Re ions or in ned of mejor repeirs. of the remaining 596, 000
tone, s3, ooc had had to ce : t ssiue for repatristion purposes,
leaving 513, 0oc tons for the tr asport tion of oods. A spoke-
man for the Sh r ing Control Associ tion announced on October 13
that plens heabeen cotpletec for the c.struction of 37o,000
tons of shlppin, and the repair of 600, 000 tons, by the end or
thie yer.
Unempl yment. Date coapiled by the pr fectural gov rnments
relersed by the Ministry of welfere on October 20 revealed
4, 746,C00 unenployed at thet tinme. The Ministry estimated thet
even sllowing for m xi un ausorption in sgriculture this figure
wes bound to iner ase with the return f Japanese servicemen and
civiliens from overseas, n- the memper of unemployed might
resch 6-8 million during tne next few ye rs. It was announced on
Movember 1? thst the Governnent nad aecided to establish a central
Unemployment Co ission within the Welfare Ministry, with subsidiary
coanissions in esch prefcture.
There have veen uicttions th t the rge volume of unemploy-
ment is not due solely to lack of employment opportunities. An
investigation reported by the Yomiuri on November 17 revealed that
with 6o0, o0o reportedly unemoloyed in Toxyo the number of jobless
applying for work at em loyment aencies is smeller than the
number of positions ffered.St: tistics of theMetropolitan
Police Boar revealed thet 37,ooo joos were offered through such
agencles uring October but only 6,ooo had appl1ed. The explana-
tion offered by the Yoniur1 for this stete of affeirs was that
trensportstion to working plsces, nostly fectories which had
escered destruction in the fer corners of Tokyo, wes extremely
difficult, nd thet those who accepted re ular employment were
deprived of opportunity to go into the country to buy foodstuffs.
Aleo, large numbers of people, attrected by the profits of black
merket operations, heve been working as street vendors or brokers.
Baron Shidehare st ted inress interview on November 7
that the Government was considering a vast dam construction
program to reduce unenployment and provide cheap power. Such a
progrem, he believed, could be carried out on the basis of
domestic materials (more dams will produce more cement and more
cement will produce more dams") and once completed, would permit
large savings of coal and petroleum. Electrically powered auto-
mobiles would travel on a greatly extended highway system, while
the railroads, completely electrified, would provide uninterrupted
transportstion between the four main islands through connecting
tunnels. Newspaper comment on this proposal was mainly to the
effect that although the program had long-range possibilities
it would not solve the employment problem of the present and

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.89)
-2-
future.
Finarec. J nce i  ciel raulc e w re discussed by
livoye CuchI, orer e  or fiticel eccnomy t Tokyo
Imo-riel  v reit, in e rs i  res  ctober 18. Noting
t Jan1 r1s 1bs e to 150 billlon
, inere ce  illir    l7, Professor Ouchi
 ferrea to the ea r ous ey e citur s waich the tvernment is
ekin or  soo brve to woke.
 se melude coupen. tion to
u rarce c paier r l sses cosequent upon
rceltiotrcts; copensation to owners
rerty versers iser tes -y the allies; retirement or
correncies sse  the o cse Govern.ent r benks uncer
sov rt ctro i t :orer concuered territories;
vternst sion ene en uities; r e. straction;air-raid victin
 .eloyme l ef; , e i   ve entioned, payment
 the custs the ccurtion.
Funts fer trese our oses, he oitee sut, cn only se obtained
 urther tr win, ut the  tisel de t is elready lerger
n c te suscorted. Int:rest  the delt this fiscal year
will tot 1 ? cillion yen, snly ore sillion yen less than estimated
to' 1 Government  venues. In Mr. Ouchi's opinion criticiel in-
"I tion and n: tie:el cenkruptcy v re inevit:ble unless the
Governient elre. sted all vartile financicl con itnente, cancell-
in 1 o cillion ven worti  ar co.ds and denying all cl: ins to
indeniric: tion ror wer los es. It was reported on November 9
tiht Benk oi Japen notts i.. cireuittion were expected to exceed
to sillion yen it the enu oi tnt calenuar ye r, an increase of
 billion v. sice Au st t. The free dollar-yen exchange
rat ie now anyvnere fro e - ue en to the coliar.
The Goverrment &ttitude,   te y Finance Minister Keizo
SiIetsAwA, is th t y ro ici..  i istr tive expenses, by revising
the pension system, y slici su.sldies, cy fostering increased
prouuction, sns uy r : tly cre sin tuxes, the overnment will
e rule to avoi eitner re i: tion f ite wrtime coa itments,
which, it is hele, woule erd t the col anse of the netion's
entire finencir1 structure, or currency evaluction. In pursuance
of this policy the Gov rnaent s announce intention (1) to effect
 co cercent reduction i overn ent frson el, (2) to cerry out
 undamentsl revision of the ension systen to avert an anticipated
cix-rol: increase in the Government's censions lisvility as a con-
secuence " the grertly lncrerseu nunuer of claiments, and (3) to
increase t xes   to levy vo isort nt new taxes, one a tax on
al  ersonel pre erty, includin real estete, grauusted up to
70 rercent, n the tner a new, virtually confiscatory wartime
xcess :ro its tax. The two taxes to ether are expected to yiela
rivenuec of o - 0 billion yen uring the next five years.
Re ardin the li: ui tion of its wartime comitments, the
Government wes renorted on octoter 27 to be considering the issuance
of o-30 villion ven worth f ermanent conds, bearing one per-
cent intercost, to be eff red in setisfection of war locses
indemnificets.

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.92)
- 23-
indemnification claime. Finence inister Shibusawa stated on
October 28 that the Government definitely would not devalue the
currency in an effort to ac just its firencial burdens. This
pledge w-s repested when it ws revesled by " a source close to
the Finence Ministry" on Novencer 7 t:t the Government plans to
repl-ce ell currency ir circul tion, reportedly for the purpose
of reventing tex evasion. The :ove scurce stated that the new
currency will te issued t ar, :nd trrt deposit accounts will
ce freed ia etistely the exchshte if ccoplished.
VIII. PULLIC ATTIIUDES
On Au ust  mrity  the Jese people were convinced
thst the Jena ece Navy was hicin i. streneth waiting  favor
tle oocortunity t ene the Aerie  Fleet in en annihilating
is ttle,  nd th the Aray woule i lict ruch neavy losses on our
rorees l in i the nein sls t:t we woulu withdrew rether
thn suf"er further lesses, nd e ce Wouiu follow. Little wes
know t the  to ie tonb i t th t ti.. e.
The ilii rction t the  rer's anouncement of
sarrentert noo ne roil wine y v:s   stunneu and incredulous
surprise. Later, as the news stnx i., tis reaction was followed, on
the st and, y rlief thet  lo- e: ense of the homeland
voulo not ce neces::ry, ra on the -taer oy reelines of increesed
devetion to the iperoi who hed t xer tris if icult step to
ceve hes are the world I trther c 1 erin. as one Jananese put
it, "Frop th t monent the E.ceror c me down fron a position high
in the skies and became the rerl Fi trer f ur hation". At the
sane tire a feelim of n  it theil trists who had deceived
the... svept :ver the eonle.
As the time of  ccu tio.. p ro cneu, the eople, indoctrineted
with tales cf Americ'n sir arisy,  reu for the worst. Bewildered
suror'se followed when it see  et t t they would be justly
treeted. At the erf ie i is ttitio1 evidence of the calumny
of the military was n.t ist n thes. The : ttitude of the people
in their rel: tions vit. ti.e cou tio: iorces secame, in effect:
"T.e wer, whic ost  ur a  wet anywey, is ver. Let's
for et ror er  r e li. . we will cooperete with you, and you
in turn be e sy o: us". i tsitude -- typic: 1 of the Japenese,
vhe, when e project  iis, reier te for et it and try something
new -- fount its cou crert in the frlt ly menners of the
Ame icn enli ted mrn. Fraternizatior vetween the enlisted men of the
sccup tion rurces sao the  tive sopul tion is as luse in Japan as
in sny country here sur treeps ve se tationed, enemy or
alllel. While the :l'est excesrive friendliness and coo erstive-
ness of the Jepsacse i. tsir re1 ties with Anerictn officers is
in some csses en expression of eenuine feeling, it is undouctedly
lso : reflection f e desire to voi. trousle and eet the occupa-
tion over as cuickly as possivle.
The gen-ral popul:tion appe:rs genuinely to welcome the re-
Tormin: efforts of the Allies. Est:tlishment f a free press in
which the people cen have confiuence, tnd fre aon to say, think
and, ir the coming elections, vote ss o.e lixes are changes which
are

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.90)
-34-
cre definitely apcrecisted. It would be a mistake to believe,
howev r, th: t the Jepanese feel r:teful to the occupstion
authorities for efiectie tere refors. The general view is
thet they v re inevit: le once the military had come to their
deserved f te. It is rec: liea for ex: mpie, thist & pill for the
i stitutio:  woen's sufir e pas eu tie House of Representa-
tives ust tefore the Mlchurian Int luent, only to ce stopped
cy the House f Feers. I..uecd, thc t prohouncea populer
re: ction ss the vorisus .top.  ve see. effected has peen
n er n  t the Guverne.t. iiee to initiate them
in vence  Allie irctives. is e seen the cese
triehrl . tht err st  vr eri 1 suepects. The
eorle se l ely rsme, wel they mint, of Japenese
strocities,  cosi..r th.e offe ser i the ms jor war criminels
to hi ve bee. re : i..st them tnt. the Allies.
overe owi li ter  tters in the panese mind is
the prile.. su.sistence. e c . tio.., the Government,
siitics, e raetic: ll cilt.  ttt rs are consia red
in their r  tien to the fo.u, thelt r the emp oyment proslem,
vith food overwhelminaly mest iporte.t. war sevines,
irmissrl ll vances, enu must ri-out ay na ve eft the
eople v-l: tively well su lie. with cesh. Aatner tren work,
whien vul. ci  ly m xe them hun ri r, they seenu the greater
frt of their ti e, exeept t.e i rmere :nd werkers in oocups tions
ere licressr rations are offereu, in seekins focd and attempt-
in to miti t p i i  isco rorte. axhaueted by the war,
uncert in ef the ruturt, :nu with vital'ty lowered oy the in-
adecuate dict, the  e seem vithout ambition r initietive,
content to ive 'ro.y t, o'y u til : stronger lesdership
:evelopε.
The first tve-end-a-lslf moutas of the occun tion have
witnesse the succ ssf ct lisiment of the ihitisl opject-
ives f the scou tis. The Jap .ese sried forces nave been
icsrmed ane de bilizeu, tnu mny r the more iaportant
o. strcles to the developirnt  &et ceful, democre tic nation
ve teen rema ve. Thus r, w vr, lthcush the peonle
errersly isillusioned reruine their former militry
le ers enc the r sults vf milit ry olicies, there has peen
little ap rt ci tisn, s, ince u, t.ere csula hasraly be expect-
 to have seen i se short & tie, of the rihciples or
demscr cy. The  co le welcome relief from oppression, ena the
politic: lly :ctive wincrity weicole the unhampered opportunity
to aavance their septr. te ceuses. but the eople heve no
un erstancin of their responsivilities in & democr: tic
society, nu it is cuestionaple how .any of the politic:1
perties, w ile usine their new found politicel freedoms to the
full for their own &uvantage, woulu be seriously concerned ir
tnsce frec doms w re denied to their opponents. It would be
fcolish

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.91)
-25-
foslish to believe, morecver, th t there are not lerge and
otentislly ow rul elements still r sining in the country
which hove lerrned noti.ing fron the exp rience of the past
ten yeers, erd v ien will seck to revive forter hebits of
li'e snd thought if  fevore-le oppertunity sp eare. Never-
theless a ro  sin be inin hs scen eue, sufficient to
i cic: te th:t, in tine,  ssuli the enjoyment of reasonable
coic orrtunity, dem crstic, eaceully inclined Japan
Ropert A. Fegrey.
AArerey:ms

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX
CALENDAR OF PRINCIPAL EVENTS
August
26 - U. S. Third Fleet anchors in Sagemi Bay.
28 - Eighth Army edvence units land at Atsugi Airdrome.
30 - Lerge-scele landings of Eighth Army forces et Atsugi; Marines
take possession of Yokosuke Nevel Bese; General MecArthur
arrives et Atsugi, sets up temmorery heedquarters in Yokohame.
September
2 - Surrender Documents signed aboerd USS Missouri.
5 - Prime Minister Prince Higashi-Kuni addresses a special session
of the Diet, outlining the reesons for Japan's defeat and
stating the policies of his Government.
8 - Americen forces enter Tokyo; Generel MacArthur presides at
flag-raising ceremony at Americen Embassy buildings.
11 - Wer criminal roundup ordered by Generel MacArthur; General
Tojo attempts to commit suicide.
16 - Publication in the Japanese press of official U. S. Army report
of Jrpenese etrocities in the Philippines.
17 - General MacArthur moves his headguarters to Tokyo.
24 - Jepenese Government is directed to remove itself from direct or
indirect control of newspapers and news agencies and to accord
non-discriminetory treetment to news services.
25 - The Emperor is interviewed by Frenk Kluckhohn. New York Times,
and Hugh Beillie, president of the United Press.
25 - Officiel ststement of U. S. Initiel Post-Surrender Policy Toward
Jepen published by the Japenese press.
27 - The Jepenese Government is instructed to repeal all laws imposing
restrictions on the freedom of the press, motion pictures, mail,
tele-communicetions "or eny other form of written or spoken word".
and, pending such repeel, to suspend enforcement of those lews.
27 - The Emperor calls on Generel MacArthur.
30 - Twenty-one benks end other financial institutions whose special
purpose had been the financing of Japanese war production end
colonial exploitetion ere ordered closed for eventual liquidation.
30 - Domei News Agency disbends as a consequence of the Headquarters
directive of September 24.
October
4 - The Japanese Government is ordered to remove restrictions on
politicel, civil and religious liberties, to free all political
prisoners, to abolish secret police organizations, and to remove
the Minister of Home Affairs and all high police officials
responsible for the enforcement of measures deeling with the
control of thought, speech, religion and assembly.
5 - The Higashi

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.98)
- ? -
October
5 - The Higeshi-Kuni Cebinet resigns.
6 - Beron Shidehare undertekes to form a cabinet.
7 - The Mitsubishi interests ennounce a moderete plan of
reorganizetion.
9 - The Shidehar Cabinet is installed et the Pelece.
9 - A Federstion of Cooperative Associations is organized under
the sponsorshin of Count Yoriyasu Arime and Toyohiko Kagawa.
10 - The Mitsui interests announce a moderate plan of reorganization.
10 - The Jepanese Government is informed of the principles and
procedures to govern the importation of essential civilian goods.
10 - Current rice crop revealed to be the smallest in 36 years.
11 - Prime Minister Shidehere is instructed by Generel MacArthur
regerding the sociel reforms to be effected in Japan.
11 - The Jepanese Government is directed to report public and
private foreign exchenge assets.
11 - Prince Konoye is aupointed to the Office of the Lord Keeper
of the Privy Seel to advise the Emperor regarding the revision
of the Constitution.
13 - The Cabinet decides to recommend the adoption of women's
suffrage and lowering of the voting age to 20.
13 - The Jepenese Government ennounces the removel from office of
4800 secret police in accordence with the directive of October 4.
13 - Dr. Joji Matsumoto is appointed Minister Without Portfolio to
drew up & proposed revision of the Constitution.
13 - The Jepenese Government is ordered to report silk stocks on
hand and estimeted present end future silk productive capacity.
15 - The Jepenese population 1s estimeted by the Home Ministry to
have totelled 77.997,042 es of August 1, 1945.
16 - The Yasude interests ennounce a plan of general dissolution.
16 - General MacArthur announces completion of the demobilization
of the Jepanese home forces in a broadcast to the United States.
17 - Hyoye Ouchi, former Professor of Political Econamy aet Tokyo
Imperial University, advises the government in a radio address
to abrogate all financiel commitments incurred during the war.
17 - Headquarters prohibits eny further interference by the Govern-
ment with the Jepanese motion picture industry.
17 - Decision to revise the Bank of Japan Law is announced by the
Finance Minister.
17 - The Cabinet decides to reduce the number of government officials
by 50 percent.
18 - Headquarters

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
October
18
Headquerters orders the Japanese Government to ensure the des-
truction of all nercotics stocks in Japen and prohibits further
cultivation of narcotic seeds and plants within the country.
The Social Democratic Party rejects a Communist proposal to
esteblish a united Popular Front.
Home Minister Horikiri reveels that the Government will intro-
duce & bill for the populer election of orefectural governors
et sn eerly session of the Diet.
Headquarters issues instructions to the Japanese Government
regerding the treatment in Japan and repatriation of foreign
diplomets end netionals.
21 - The Japenese Government informs the Headquarters of plans to
extend Jepan's highway system 250 percent during the next 5
years.
22 - The Jepenese Government is directed to reform the nation's
educational system so as to prevent the dissemination of
militaristic end ultra-nationalistic ideology and so as to
emphesize instruction in representetive government, inter-
national peece and the dignity of the individual.
Jepan's fifteen largest concerns, including Mitsui, Mitsubishi,
Sumitomo end Yasude Konzerns, are instructed to submit reports
covering all phases of their ectivities.
23 - The Government decides to underteke the drafting of an anti-
trust law.
24 - Headquarters instructs the Jepanese Government to submit
reports describing the present state of 81 mission universities,
colleges and schools.
25 - The Government is instructed to trensfer Japanese diplomatic
end consuler pronerty and archives throughout the world to the
Allied Powers, to recall Jepanese diplomatic and consular
representatives in neutral countries, and to cease relations
with foreign governments excent through Allied Headguarters.
25 - Prince Konoye ennounces intention to return his peerage and
other marks of honor.
26 - The Tokyo Metropolitan Council decides to recommend the public
election of future Governors of Tokyo Metropolis.
26 - The Japanese Government is ordered to establish a newsprint
end foreign-type paper distributing agency.
27 - Home Minister Horikiri announces a reshuffle of 32 prefecturel
governors end 130 department chiefs.
27 - The Mitsui interests announce a plan of general dissolution.
29 - Count Arima proposes the abolition of the peerage.
29 - Ichizo

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
October
29 - Ichizo Kobayeshi is appointed Minister Without Portfolio in
the Shidehere Cabinet to head a new War Damages Rehabilitation
Boerd.
30 - The Emperor's properties are estimeted by the Japanese Govern-
ment to have a total value of 1.5 billion yen.
31 - The Japanese Government is informed in detail of the steps to
be teken for the removal of objectioneble teaching personnel.
31 - Plans for the orgenizetion of an All Japan Press Workers'
Union are announced.
November
1
A Society for the Study of Constitutional Revision is organ-
ized by & number of leading writers end scholars.
The fifteen firms named in the directive of October 22 are
forbidden to dispose of eny of their securities or those of
their subsidiaries without the prior permission of the
Headquerters.
The Ministry of Welfare notifies the Headquarters that 2.5
million buildings were partially or entirely destroyed by
air raids.
2 - The Social Democratic Party of Japen is formally organized
in Takyo.
2 - The Premier eudresses a conference of prefectural governors.
3 - The New Jepan Women's Union is formelly organized.
3 - The Cebinet decides to establish a special commission to
probe the causes of the wer end the reasons for Japan's
defeat.
4 - A mess meeting supporting the independence of the Netherlands
Indies end Indo-Chine is held at Hibiya Perk in Tokyo.
The Japanese Government is ordered to submit a report to
Headquarters describing the orgenization, functions and
jurisdiction of the Kempei-tai (Japanese Militery Police).
The Eight Regional Governments General are abolished, to be re-
placed by as many Regional Administrative Offices.
6 - Mitsui, Mitsubishi, Sumitamo end Yasuda Konzerns are ordered
abolished; the Japanese Government is directed to submit plans
for the dissolution of all other monopolistic combines and
for the prevention of privete monopoly in future.
6 - The Jepan Women's Cooperation Association is formally organ-
ized.
7 - A former Kami-kaze corpaman attempts unsuccessfully to assass-
inete the Home Minister.
8 - Mainichi reports 296,000 demobilized servicemen and civilians
repatrlated to Japen through October 31.
8 - The Japanese

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
November
8 - The Jepenese are permitted to resume whaling activities.
9 - The Liberal Farty of Japen is formally organized et Tokyo.
9 - A land development program involving 3.7 million acres is
approved by the Cebinet.
9 - The Japanese Government is instructed to bubmit its proposed
plans for meeting the food production problem for 1946 end
for long range agrarian reform.
10-
The centrel features of an egrerien reform progrem to be
introduced by the Government in the forthcoming extre-
ordinary session of the Diet are revealed to the press.
10 - Heedouerters announces the abolition of 8 wartime labor lews.
11 - Merquis Kido announces intention to resign his position es
Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal.
11 - The Communist Perty publishes its 25 point platform.
12 - A Deliberative Council is appointed by the Imperiel Household
Ministry to submit recommendations for the revision of the
Peers Lew.
13 - The Emperor reports the termination of the wer to his ancestors
at Ise.
13 - The Cabinet decides to request the Emperor to convene an extre-
ordinery session of the Diet on November 26 for & period of 18
days.
13 - The Public Procurator's Office of the Japenese Supreme Court
undertakes en investigetion of Generel Tojo's finencial affairs.
13 - Baroness Isnimoto, leeding Jepanese birth control advocate,
becomes the first woman to announce her cendidacy in the coming
generel elections.
13 - The Cabinet decides to reform the civil service system.
14 - Plans for the establishment of a private radio broadcesting
compeny, provisionally known as the Jepen Radio Company, are
raveeled.
14 - The Cabinet end court circles decide to abolish the Office of
the Lord Keeper of the Privy Seel.
14 - The Japanese Government is ordered to report all subsidies now
being peid or payable under present law to individuels or legal
persons in industry or other fields of enterprise except agri-
culture.
15 - The Cabinet decides to stimulate gold production as a source of
foreign exchange.
15 - Edwin M. Pauley

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
November
15
Edwin M. Pauley, Personal Representative of the President,
outlines U. S. reparations policy for Jepan at a press
conference in Tokyo; the Japenese Government is reported
planning to establiah a reperation commission as a counter-
part to the Americen commission.
16 - The Progressive Perty of Japen is formally organized in Tokyo.
16 - It is reveeled that the New Japan Women's League hopes to
enter 50 women cendidates in the coming eloctions.
17 - The Cabinet decides to reise the official purchese price of
rice, wheat and berley in an effort to curb black market
dealings.
17 - Authoritative source reveals plan to replace existing
currency reportedly es tax collection aid.
17 - Leeding women's suffregists address mass meetings in Tokyo.
17 - The Japanese Government is ordered to deliver eleven nemed
major wer criminals to Sugemo Prison Cemp.
18 - The Government is ordered to submit a detailed plan to replace
as soon as possible approximately four million radio receiving
sets.
The Headquarters prohibits any form of aviation activity in
Japen efter December 31.
19 -
Meinichi reports Educational Ministry has decided to revise
existing regulations to afford girls the same opportunity as
boys to enter higher educetionel institutions.
20 - Beron General Honjo, one of the eleven wer criminal suspects
nemed in the directive of November 17, commits suicide.
20 - The assets of the Imperiel Household ere ordered frozen except
for normel opereting expenses.

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.92)
ACTION
DIVISION OF
CENTRAL SERVICES
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH SECTION
INCOMING TELEGRAM
DC/R
AOTION-JA
INPO:
18-630-6
PRAIN
U
C
Moscow via War
A-B
A-D
Dated November 30, 1945
SA
Rec'd 10:30 a.m.
SPA
13
EUR-X
FE
Secretary of State
DCAOO
He
SPD-2
Washington
FO-14
010
INI
4016, Thirtieth.
OPI
PL
FOR ACHESON ACTIND POLITICAL ADVIBER TOKYO.
Press Nov 30, published Tokyo Tass Nov 20, report that
1-3045
Cemmmunist Touth League had boen reestabliahed in Japan and
that Komscmol weuld lead demooratio tendenciog arising among
Jap goatia.
Sent State Dept as 40l6; repeated Chungking as 225,
Frankfurt and Tokyo.
MESSAGE UNBE
LMS
PLAIN
I VI Unt
DEC
Fi
n1
6 1945
11
Cal
Dist.

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.95)
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japan, December 5, 1945.
COITTULVIIAL....
NO. 83
Dch
SUBJECT: Political Parties in Japan: Developments
During the Week Ending December 1, 1945.
1FE/R
The Honorable
loss(In
394.00/12-345
The Segretary of State,
Washington.
Sir
894.01
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's Despatoh
No. 74 November 24, 1945, and previous despatohes trans-
mitting weekly reports, prepared at the request of the
Supreme Commander, on the general subject of the develop-
ment of Japanese political parties.
There is transaitted hereunder a copy of a memoran-
dum of identic date addressed to the Supreme Commander,
forwarding this Wission's report on the development of
politicel parties during the week ending December 1, 1945,
CS/SMS
and recommending, in view of current discussion of war
responsibility in the House of Representatives and the in-
creasing need for clarifying the qualifications for candi-
dates in the coming elections, that steps be taken as sug-
gested in our memorandum of November 24 (forwarded to the
Department under cover of Despatch No. 74 referred to
above).
The report contains a summary as its first setion.
ly yours,
UEC27 1945
DEC 27 1945
JAN - 8 1946
URCLASSIFIED
Memorandum to the Supreme
Commander, December 3, 1945,
transmitting report on Jap-
anese Political Parties for
Week Ending December 1, 1945.
DCR NE Unir
Original and duplicate, with
224
R
800
mn
JSService:vs
D::

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.97)
BOQ
Enclosure to Deppatch No. 83 of December 4, 1945, from
the Acting United States Political Adviser, Tokyo, Japan,
on the subject "Political Parties in Japan: Developments
During the Week End ing December 1, 1945."
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japan, December 3, 1945.
.CusDUk Fok: Ju: reme Commander
UndCi: Japenese Foliticnl arties (Report for Week
End in: December 1, 1945,
Lereunder our eigith weekly report on Japanese polit-
ical parties submitted pursuant to the Chief of taff's
memorundum of Cctober 3, 1945.
"ith reference to our lemorendun of November 24, 1945,
recomending the establisiment of qualifications for polit-
ical parties ani the prohibition of certcin candidates, we
are preparing the foliowine lists: l) members of the pres-
ent nouse of kepresentatives nominated for election by the
Imperial ule assistance Political ssociation; 2) inde-
pendent members of the ouse of Representatives not affil-
lated with the Politicel Association of Great Japan; 3)
iouse memoers who it is believed were influential in the
Political association of Grest japan; 4) house members who
were active to some degree in the Political Association
of Great Japan; and 5) house members who represented groups
more nationalistic then the rolitical association of Great
Japan.
In view of recent discussions of war responsibility
in the nouse of kepresentatives and of the im reasing need
for clarificetion of the qualifications for candidates in
the coming elections, it is believed important that steps
be taken as recommended in our memorandum of November 24.
Irominent Japanese, both within am without the Government,
have themselves suggested that a directive from 3CAP on
these lines would be welcomed generally and would facilitate
the development of nocretic processes in Japan.
LORG ATCHESON, JR.
Auerican minister
800
acting U. . Politicol dviser
JKEmmerson:en1
nclosure:
Japanese Political Parties:
report for Week ending
December 1, 1945.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.91)
OFFICE OF PUE LRUTHD TATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Jupan, December 3, 1945.
POLTICL :ELOPNT URING THE
WEP TO DECE.BER 1, 1945.
SROMARY:
Failure of tie presont political parties to represent definito
ideologies i: rarmony vitn the democratlc development of Japan hay
heen rovealed durint the first werr of the Diet sossion. Two of the
three major purties have yet been uuable to choose loaders. None of
then hes yet won widespresd confidence fron the press or the people.
The first issue to come to & vote in the present sossion of the
ouse of eprescntutive: wes the question of wer responsibility. A
vague resolution introduced by the Progressive Party was pessed by a
vote of one hundred seventy-cicht to forty-five. The Independents
tre tryiny to onccurage a split in the Progressive Party, already
somewhat s sky, und tave anouncea their intention to propose resig-
natio: of all Dict  mber; follo. s pecsage of the slection roform
bi11.
The Progressives are b kin: Leav!ly on the reputation of sAio
Takeo to save them fre conde a cion for wer responsihility. His
accusution thet Prince Kono is & wer criniual created a furore in
the lolie of Ropresentatives.
The Coranunists are nolding their "Fourth Party Con ress" on Doc-
enter 1 an  and lave annpunced several candidates for the coming
electicns. The. re seekin ' remove disqualifications for offioo,
sttecned to one o" 'er becou e of their prison records.
aa riti pani c sy cetivlty. It is roportod
that Fut Yoshto, lerder of to caouvi: lrtic National Foderation of
Lahorers and Kob Yoshio, of the Japon  etton l Party are working
together and thet utusl suppot of  ie: cundidates has beon egreed.
Japsuose uve  oresed the hope that CAp will step in to cla-
fy the quostiou o" war respo sl il ity which, unresolved, pells the
uree to genulre le eratic refor.  OF SUARY.
Party ctivities In the Diet
Phe opening Jays of the iet sesslon uave witneused loaders of
the three me jor purties jockeying for advantageous positions in the
coming elcction races. Thut the Progressive and Social Domocratic
Parties have not yet tchieved unity end smooth working machines is
proved by lie fact thet neither party has yet been able to agree upon
a need. Mr. U.roYr of the Liberal Party renains the sole duly
elected president of e party now in the Diet. Tnere has yet been no
noticeatle move toward any of tne constituted parties by the more
than one hundred independent members who are apparently still testing
the present political stnosphere.
Some
LAOHED

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.91)
- 2 -
pome imprasslon of perty charucter and tactice can be gleaned
fron interpellations whicn have occurred so far. The Progrossive
Party 1a making the most of the reputatlon as e liberal of SAITo
Takao who threw e bomhunell into the let sess on of Novombor 28 by
neming Prince ey as responsitle for the "Chine Incident" and
therofore e wer criminel. T is knonn that  Ito wes muoh sought
after by the Liberal rart, end both Liberals and Social Democrets
are susp'cious of ro:re. sive efforts to build up SIto in an ef-
fort to canouflege so e of their more peccable members. Rumors
continue that a fection within th rogressive arty, to which SaI-
ro belols, still desires Jenercl U.I s nerty head while an op-
oosing group supportrireeY. t i, nowever, nighly unlike
ly that either tlera)  I or  rinc, Y will cone forward to
tead any political party et ti tine. rhe future of the Progressive
Perty must ew it ftrt.er clorific tion of the wor responsibility is-
sue.
Lyy  Pirt soeeen in the lut has deenered the impression
thet "Liberal" is a mi  cn at the party should be callod Con-
tervative.  " again took oc esion to preach necossity of pre-
serving the mpero" an to rn gainst the "weaknessos" of domocracy
whuich riht permit rey l of ictetorship. e exclained that there
t le "Jep: s iiit tion. n deoer tie government in Japan". An
mari columnist expressed disappoint nent thet LToYlx as the first
leeder of a nes part: e!   de a more brillint, forceful entry
into the dewoa.ie st  I unf in within Japeu. On specific
iues,  criticisc the poposed clection reform bill as on-
c.uruging formction of merous mell per' le, advocated ousting pre-
rectural overn s ene tier officile wro obatructed conetitutional
processe, and inel ted th Je must win the confidence of Allied
leauquarters to iure food inpurts whien wi ll prevent starvetion.
Liberal Perty le der re tac ubtedly Lookin- forward to a Fato-
Y Cabinet and ay re le. erthea  bi ious opoortanists gamb-
line or the future. The rarty n: fei lel to win support which would
ordinaril. inve cone to i from ve: uine liberals both within and with-
out the iet due te ite onew  werative conservetisn.
The socitl Lemocr:c rty ps been renreseutel in Diet inter-
pellatione by N ere and Jiichir. o limited
nis discusaio.  co crete problen: sch us food, unemployment, and
lahor. The pre  criticized him for failine to explein the political
p:ilosophy r the p rty.
 To dovotc.l the me jor pert of his in-
terpellation on ovonbe zo to attacking vhe widespread corruption
among ry snd  avy of cere rot before an? ofter the surrender.
Phe ociel venocrt: re ti handic: nned by t eir lack of a
clear-cut enunclated tor o: the mperor question. some of their
lenders have expressed supnort of the Imperiel institution hut the
fact rencins that when pos:ible tas iague hus been avoided. This
is uf course recopnized as a neces ry trctic to keep tovether the
divergont el ements within the party hit it is u weakness vis-a-vis
the public.
It is as yet too eorly in the ses lon to predict the strength
and potentialities of tho perties. No one is surprised at the un-
inspiring efforts of a group of en discredited by their acts and
by their weakness to salvago their reputations and their futures by
fumbling

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.96)
E
fumbling with the construction of e democratic State which they listle
understand.
War Responsibility
Since the opening of the Diet session it has been clear that the
first issue of importance to come to s vote would be the question of
war responsibility. Onl, a handful of Diet members have resigmed and
the efforts of the party men seem to have been concentrated on find-
ing a formule which would satisfy public demand for clarification of
iet responsibility in the wer and st the same time not destroy their
chances in the next clection.
It was at first hopel that the part ies could agree on one resolu-
tion but it soon tecame clear that this was impossible. The question
was scheduled for debate in the House of Representatives on November
3o tut no conclusior was reached in conmittee and the metter was post-
poned until Decenber 1 when two resolutions were introduced.
The firet rosclu'ion was sigued by twenty members of the Liberal
Party end supported by the Sociel bemoorats. It stated thet the House
ofRepresentatives could not cerry on its work without first elerify-
ing the question of war responsihility ana that those leaders in the
wertime Diet who wholeheartedly supported the Government should feel
their responsibility and decide their fut ure course of ection. The
second resolution introduced ty the Progressive Party divided war res-
ponsibility into two cetegories, those who initisted en ill-advised
wer and those who violsted nternationel lew during the wer. It ab-
solve the generel publie who followed ordere of the Government and
ended rather weekly, "e legisletors should also reflect upon our
pest conduct calmly nd exercise self-repentance and proceed with the
work of reconstructiy the country."
When vote was finally aken et 4:15 p.m. on December 1, the Pro-
gressive resolution w pesse? by  vote of one hundred seventy-eight
votes ageinst forty-five votes for the Liberel resolution. At least
one hundred of the Progres ivet as well as s good many Liberals end
Sociel Democrets absteineu fron voting.
Phe Indep ent Club, numbering only ton or twelve members, op-
posed both resolution end its members left the House chamber bofore
the vote was taken. They heve prepored a dreft resolution and will
propose resienution of all pembers of the present Diet following pas-
sage of the olection refor. bill. They state that the present Diet
is not qualified to teke up such messures es the land reform bill and
the labor union bill. Their political purpose is clearly to encourage
the splitting of the Progrescive Party which appeers likely at the
present time.
General reaction to the Diet di cussion of wer responsibility is
that Hous• members are obviously reluctent to vote themselves out of
office and that they will herdly of their n accord come to a doci-
sion which will guarentee a thoroughly renovated Diet efter the next
election. A SCAP directive would clesr the atmosphere by setting que-
lifications for candidates for the next House of Representatives. It
is believed thet such s directive would be welcomed by many of the
Diet members themselves and by the Japanese public in goneral.
Activities of Communist Party
Representatives of the Japanese Communist Party have announced
their
UNOLASS

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.90)
UNCLASOITILU
teir Fourth National Congress to be hold for two days, December 1
d 2. Three undrud party menbers were expected to attend. Sos-
sions were closed to the public. The first three party congrosses
took loce cla..destinely 1 1922, 1995, end 1925.
Csrtcin o' the reieased politicil prisoners who wish to becone
ctndidctes fon tht viet are utill technically isqualified under
preset lew bec e of laving been judge? guflty in the past of cri-
minel ctres. Corrunit le Jere ove beer in consultation with the
Justice Misistry un wit officers in leadqutrters to soek a way of
revir tne disguelification.
The Party ore vilt clee  c iman tal a centrel comaitiee
a will    he prores of the party's organizetion and
on policies to to  c: cd i the comin: electione. FP Tonkai, Ko-
rosr relensed olitieer, will discuss Communist ectivitios
eong the :oresns : Jpn, sig. Yosnio will oxplain the plans for
expending tle i e Jon Lege,  TYAoto Konji will dis-
cuss t treinin   izer  the institution of a short-term
perty sclcol, and Li toni wi! presont the party's activitis
arong youtt and women. I hlenori will discuss the coming elec-
tion and l higeo will eplal policy owerd labor unions and far-
mer's orgnnizations.
pprolensior over Comminist rctivi les wes expressod in the House
of Peers on November 29 by  ATyrem Joji, Miaister without Portfolio
i. tne presont Cabinet. He ststes thet the Communist movement was
"extre"ly radicel" ad thst violetions of the provision of the crimi-
nal code ageinst Lese-mefeste night occur. do added that he had foared
the radio hal been too sympathetic to the Comm:u ists but thet this
situation seened to have cunped recent ly.
Unioe of Ricat ist Parties
In order to : c ieve  ximua resule in the coming elections, the
minor rightist pertles are cooperoti in individual election districts.
It ip potrtet thet  Yochlo, lee ler of the Metional Fodoretion of
Llururs (enkeku rl.roohe Lomei) will form a unitel frost with YonA.
Yoshio, lender  the Jepep vatioral arty (Vippon Kokuminto) in the
second distriet i lok. v aseketsu, chief secretery of the
former party snd h.c Sin, pre: let o! the Srent Jepan Imperial Way
oc srion (Dal Nipson Yodo si', wil) shoport euch other in one of the
co.stituoncios 1: Osake.
nn0, who was he of the rebl le-rousers in Pokyo in 1340 ond 1941,
is agair active and is acdrein meeti s of hie Imperial Way Associe-
tion, anmounced by lurid red and plnck posters o: the telephone poles
of downtown Tokyo. OL was recently naned as a wer criminal and war
profiteer by the writer of a letter to the Yomiuri-llochi. He is accused
of naving hed access to Nevy funds in shenghai during the wer, to have
rede huge profits in Chine, an: to he ve finsnced e Japenese jingoistic
publication cclled "Yemeto".
John K. Enmerson
Foreign Service Officer
UINOLAJUN

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATÉ
Offioe
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Azln945
FOREIGN ACTIVITY CORRELATION
Department of Stat
December 6, 1945.
MEMORANDUM
TO: John Carter Vincent, Director
Office of Far Eastern Affairs
101945
FROM: R. E. Carroll
SUBJECT: Report on Japan
I forward the enclosed report with the idea that
it may be of some assistance to you in your work.
894.00/12-645
Many reports have probably been written about this
visit and some of the facts set down therein will
probably be well-known to you. However, I submit the
report for what it may be worth to you.
This report may be slightly different in that
it is not an interrogation destined to bring out
intelligence, but it is a purely voluntary report
which these men rendered to the Y.M.C.A. in New York,
which has a great many interests in Japan and Korea.
They obtained the services of these men to speak
at this conference in order to get first-hand reports
on purely Y.M.C.A. matters. The report, therefore,
is voluntary and of a religious nature, but at the
same time valuable in furnishing background informa-
tion as to conditions in Japan and Korea and the
attitudes of the people there.
C
S
m
Enclosure.
OCF VF Unit
na
894.0
DEC141945
BF
Dis.
0
/12-645
FC:RECarroll:abc

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
REPORT ON JAPAN
Made by four religious leaders who just returned from Japan
November 27, 1945, 156 Fifth Avenue, New York City.
(Notes taken by Frank B. Lenz, International Seoretary of Y.MC
Dr. Douglas Horton
We were carrying out the purpose of the Riverside
Conference in California 1n 194l. In September 1945
we heard a broadcast from Radio Tokyo saying a visit
would be welcome. We flew from San Francisco and spent
23 days in Japan.
We were not representatives of Mission Boards,
nor denominational groups. Nor did we go as Americans
but as Christians. Four men went. We hoped for a
Canadian and some women.
Dr. Schaefer and I went to Korea but we had not
planned that originally. Even General Hodge said it
would be misunderstood if we did not go.
Korea is divided by the 38th parallel. It is a
political as well as a geographical line. A heavy
curtain has been dropped by the Russians. Koreans. are
slipping from North Korea to the south. Minerals are
in the north; agricultural lands and business in the
south. The Koreans are dismayed about this division.
In the south, although there are 70 parties there
are only 2 parties. Our military men thought that
leadership could be built around Rhee and Kim. We
expect better conditions in a few months.
Things are run down in Korea. The water mains are
clogged. Severance Hospital is dirty and run down.
One said it was a pig pen. An army man said it was
worse a month ago. A new Board has been installed.
No running water, no sheets and no anesthetics. Fami-
lies move in to cook. It is a mess. Doctors and
nurses are needed now.
Helen Kim is still at Ewa and is still the same
Helen Kim. She stood off the Jap military as long as
possible. The college is in fair condition. Registra-
tion is up to pre-war. Chosen Christian College is
also in fair shape,
but.the windows are broken. New
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
leadership is needed.
In Japan the chaplains, in their relation with
the Japanese Christians, are splendid. In the
devastated cities little contact was made with the
Christians. They are scattered. A young G.I. saw
a church steeple and went in. He met there a group
of Christian ministers in session. He was moved to
stand and say: "Nobody sent me but I want to bring
greetings from American Protestants". An older
replied and received him gladly. A chaplain (Pott)
in Doshishe University was very popular.
A group of W.C.T.U. people went to the airfield
and talked with the American flyers on politics and
religion.
Midu Kawai is still there. Her record still
holds. She refused to let her girls march in a
victory parade. She raised a fund to start an agri-
cultural college for women. She said they found
Christian Americans through the G.I.'s.
Miss Fugits is a great woman suffragist. The
new laws will enable women to vote and hold office.
The suffragists want Miss Kawai to stand for Diet.
A league of women voters has been formed. There is
a new day for women in Japan.
The president of the Y.W.C.A. is active and
will be more aggressive.
Most of the kindergartens were burned as were
several of the training schools. Christians started
again the kindergarten work.
The Y.W.C.A. magazine was stopped because it
was international.
The Y.W.C.A. lost many buildings but the big
building in Tokyo is in use. Our Navy took it with
the exception of 4 rooms. Their rest cottages are
in use.
The women's groups started a move to sell
valuable personal things in return for food. We
brought back kimonos and obi's as a token of the
women's friendship.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
Dr. Van Kirk
I had never been to Japan. I was made business
manager and had to do a lot of odd things. Dr. Gulick
had engendered in me a love of Japanese. We were
billeted in the Disahi Hotel in Tokyo.
Dr. Schaefer and I got up at daybreak and walked
around the city for 2 hours. Ruins everywhere, but
saw a few little gardens - symbolical. Talked with
an old elder in the Genza church; at 5:30 met Rev. Metsui
and his family and learned of the plans to rehabilitate
the church.
Saw American G.I. guarding the Imperial household,
a lesson in humiliation.
We didn't know how the Japanese Christians would
receive us. We met a band of Christians in the Y.M.C.A.
informally, therefore genuine. Mr. Saito brought some
leaders of the Church of Christ. There were many tears
shed at that little meeting. This little meeting
resolved differences. Met Kagawa in the evening. He
prayed: "Now that the war is over let the sun shine
down upon they work again, etc." Then we had a commu-
nion service.
Russell Durgin of the Y.M.C.A., now of the State
Department, was of great help: He prepared most of
our meetings. We got army bread for the communion.
The Christians in Japan didn't know what the
churches in the U.S. had been doing. We told them of
Japanese evacuation from the Pacific Coast. Told them
of Dulles work with the Church on Just and Durable
Peace. Many wept at these reports and said: "This is
happiest day of my life." "We see again with our own
eyes our friends from U.S."
Kagawa has lost one fourth of his weight. Clothes
don't fit, somewhat ragged but filled with enthusiasm
for Christianity.
In the second year of war, he was imprisoned a
day in Kobe. A half year later he was questioned day
and night for 9 days. A student told the police.
Later he was released and allowed to preach in his
own church but could not move around. He said:
"MacArthur is a good man. The G.I.'s won us. If we
had been victorious At, would have,been a catastrophy
CONFIDENIIAL

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-4-
for us and the world. Our culture had fallen to a low
ebb."
He is again carrying on great evangelistic meetings.
One meeting registered 150 people signed to become
Christians. He went with us to visit Hogach1 Kuni.
Kagawa said the Emperor's brother was making a study of
Christianity. He wanted to read Kagawa's new books.
He is addressing l0oo teachers to hear him on moral
culture. He has never before talked to teachers, the
purveyors of Shintoism.
"We need prayers, Bibles and good missionaries"
from America, said Kagawa. He is re-vamping the Coopera-
tive Movement. Says there are 13,000 in existenoe.
He is on the Executive Committee of the Social Demo-
cratic Political Party. He brings into this party labor
and agricultural groups. Kagawa will not run for office.
He promised God he would preach the gospel. He says it
is imperative to keep the Emperor because there is
political chaos in Japan. The emperor is a unifier.
Kagawa is a mover in the International Peace Asso-
ciation Morality Revival Society, a Rural Watchmakers
Institute for discharged soldiers. He says the F.O.R.
is fine for Christians but I must go to the Shintoists
and Buddhists through the International Peace Associa-
tion. He is active in the Relief program. He is getting
the use of barracks for the homeless.
He sent his greetings to all friends in America.
Bishop Baker
The devastation is unbelievable. I saw the ruin
of Hiroshuma and Nagasaki as well as ruins of other
cities.
A letter from a leader said: "We are completely
smashed. We have no army, no navy, no houses, nothing."
MacArthur is a gift of God in my judgment. We
have a single occupation and a man at the head who
knows the Orient, who is humane and who has imagination.
We were his guests at the old American Embassy.
MacArthur opened his heart and mind for 3 hours but I
can't reveal it here.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.99)
CÔNFIDENTIAL
-5-
MacArthur is not only a great general but he is a
statesman. Fundamentally he is a Christian. He is not
soft to the military and financial forces of Japan.
"We are here to sow an idea of freedom and democracy", said
MacArthur.
The American G.I.'s go all over Japan unarmed.
MacArthur has embarked on a great venture of trust. The
people who were filled with fear now go about with confi-
dence. MacArthur said he is proud of the American
soldier. "We cannot control them but they have an inner
control developed in the American home, school and
church." The soldiers are not plastered saints. Their
attitude toward the Japs is one of friendliness. Miss
Kawai said: "Your boys are funny but they are friendly
and wonderful. We must bring up our children like these
boys." The G.I.'s make a line to let the women get into
the trains.
The Japanese people react to American boys. "Our best
ambassadors are our American troops", said MacArthur.
MacArthur is surrounded by hundreds of American
civilians in uniforms. To those men is committed the
task of setting up a whole new school system but MacArthur
feels that the reforms must come up out of Japanese life.
I think we ought to have a long occupation to
restrain the vicious element in Japanese society. People
in the past have been shadowed by secret police. We need
enough soldiers to police, then must have advisors.
The audience with the Emperor did not come from the
American headquarters. We were received as individuals,
not as a deputation. The venocular press had many stories
about our presence in Japan.
I walked in, bowed, the Emperor held out his hand,
showed me to a chair and we sat down and talked. I
walked out - didn't back out.
The Emperor talked with us about Christianity.
Thanked us for schools and wanted us back. The door is
open in Japan for Christianity.
One American officer sent word to his wife to send
$1500 for missionary work in Japan.
GONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-6-
They want us back. The American government will
cooperate.
The Christians want again to enter into the world
wide Christian fellowship. We were received with open
arms. There is a new day.
Dr. Schaefer
The Christian Movement, how did it fare during the war?
We are convinced of the complete integrity of the
Christian church in Japan. There was persecution of
ministers. One minister said: "War is a sun. We are
not told what we ought to know." He was arrested, tried;
appealed his case to Supreme Court and acquitted in
April 1945.
The Christians were like the bamboo in a storm.
It bends but it doesn't break. The Christians held to
their essential loyalty. Many services were stopped but
people met in homes. Attendance dropped off because of
hard work but the churches held their meetings. Sunday
Schools were small.
We found no ministers who were defeated. They were
all underweight and tired. But they are a convinced group.
The church had centralized control exercised over it
by government. But a union had already been a fact if
the pattern was formal. This union was bomb-proof. The
United Church survived pressure from authorities. Local
churches were urged to continue meetings and not to get
lax.
The schools were under pressure by the government,
by parents, by people who urged that Bible reading and
chapel be discontinued. "Get rid of Christianity", in
our schools was the government propaganda. In some cases
the schools had to change their constitution but the
teachers held other small meetings.
One principal was called to the government. He said:
"I may not return but if you don't see me again you will
know I have been honest."
The Christian schools are in an excellent situation
to carry on.
There are only 9 churches in Tokyo intact out of 157.
Many pastors and teachera,are homeless.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-7-
Everywhere we went the Japanese say this is a
marvelous opportunity for Christianity. This is a
period for rebuilding a new Japan. "Japan must rise
up out of its despair with Jesus Christ", said one
pastor. It is the greatest time for evangelism.
Everybody is eager for English and Christianity.
There is also a great opportunity for missionary
work. Teachers are wanted back.
The United Church will not continue as it is.
But it will not break up into previous denominations.
There will be a reorganization with democratically
elected leaders. Or there may be a branch organization
set up with an inner unity holding them together. Or
there may be a Federation of Churches.
Among the over-age ministers there has been a
revolt against the hierarchy in Tokyo as in New York
or Boston.
One large movement as a democratically elected
assembly will emerge. But we will not return to
denominationalism.
There is discussion for a great Christian University,
also an urge for a Japanese American university.
The Christian movement needs 100,000 hymn books,
one million Bibles. Bibles have been burned during
the war. A great need for Christian books, newer
books, commentories and pamphlets.
Relief is needed now. The people say millions
will starve. They donTt need money but food and clothing.
No pastor wanted anything that the people don't get.
No priorities for Christmas. General starvation need
not exist. The situation is not desperate.
The church cannot undertake a program of mass
relief. The occupying power must do this. But there
is need for: a Church Relief program in Japan at once.
The people are on the edge of subsistence.
The atomic bomb to the Japanese people was just
another bomb. When 100,000 people died in the fire
from bombing in Tokyo in March it made a greater impres-
sion than the atomic bomb. There is resentment but
people are saying "If it were not for our military the
Americans wouldn't have come over
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.91)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
JAN(946
OF THE
135
OFFICE OF TE UNTEE :TATEOLITICAL
4-1-5
Tokyo, Jepen, Deceber , 19
CES
NO. 86
UtcT: Transletion of  icle Entitled Pubife Mon Who
Lanced to the Pune of the Militarists".
1JA
KB
IIAS
HT
The Hono
The   
vusningt.n..
sir:
I n ve the  r to enclose e trenslati m of an erticle from
the beeb ls  uf the py eytablished magazine New Life
(hinsei) entitled "Lerders whe ponsored Vilitriem" by a rele-
tivel kow. jo raclist. o yuki.
The thesis of he cricle i t Tepanose political leaders
iLce tho invasion of Menc uria in l33l, including militarists
and burer ucrats, bear ucevy s ont iility for the war and should
be purged from publi: 'i fo if the democratic revolution is to be
sucrecsfully reslized in Jepea.
mary. rhe ruling clecses have been trying desperately to
heintain their atut since the wer, as envisaged by the personnel
of both le TGAT-kINI and TDE AR! Cebinets. The clique exert-
Lne power behind the preset HiDEuR administratión iacludes
I AW Takio who was a close collaborator of the militarists. Army
politics since l93l neve been cheracteri zed by rivalry between two
cliques, the "Control" group and the "Imperial Way" group. Marquis
KIDo and the elder statesmen, inetead of using their influence to
ppress tne rise of the iliterists, actually encoureged them and
car responsibility for Japan's ru in. Furthemore, Diet mem-
berb
formed tc brain trust of thc totalitarian Imperial Rule
Assis
e association must be held politically rosponsible for the
are remored from office. Pureaucrate in the Home, Finance, Agri-
cul,? otner Minisiries must likewise bear responsibility. A
agh purge muet be effected to reelize the democretization of
Japan. End of Swnnary.
With now freodom of expression, much iafun tion is coming to
public light on the politicel and mil tary iatrigues of the years
since 1931. The enclosed article is one example and while it is
difficult now to check its accuracy in the case of all individuals
FLID
named, the author's treatment of Tapsnese politics is believed to
be in general sound. The article further uggests an attitude
prevalent among many Jepanese who ere sincerely interested in the
tht
nat.
The se
(63)
R
CE

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.86)
- ? -
These Japanese would welcore the el iminetiop from putlic life of
those ii.dividuals, civi lians as well as militerists, who are tainted
with varying degrece of rosp onsibility for the tragic course of Jap-
anosc evept. from suptember 1s, 1951 to utust 15, 1945.
Resportftlj your
Ceorgoatcheson, Jr.
Enclosure:
Translatio
oricinal and durlicatc, vitn reverse
cerbon, to tne orertment.
291
Ji Ennerson:
Gopy to Tenerrl of tao .rmy
Louglee Vse.rtnur.

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.88)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 86 of December 8, 1945, from the
Acting United States Political Advisor, Tokyo, Japan, on
the subject "Trenslation of Magazine Article Entitled "Pu-
tlic e Who Denced to the Tune of t:e Militarists".
TR.NSLATION
Public Men no Danced to the Tune of the Militarists
by . T  "aseyuki
( he peceaber Ireuo of tre  agazine "Shinset")
reet po lu a  ust a on tre way of the construc-
tion of sur cef l t te tarer the purcine f militeri um in Japen.
Ii. whatever age,s revelui er no ever accomplished without
pulling lowi t'c rulire cla f that i e, es shown by instances in
tle history of the wor ld. Constmuct ion o s ww Japen is beine sought
to e real zot witlout ceinp this brsic prtpc'ple, thus revealing in-
co.sl uten s f ler iavolvcd.
Vew Jana u bo uilt on te basia of a revolutionary democra-
tic principlc. ret  cee wi mconilcrntion and whet chanee were
tr.ere wlong those poros wo epercorea he so-er lDed militarism by
toeir uction as tho war politionl loaders for longer than 15 years
since t occurrene Yrin Affair.
The prement ncvuneit:  tr.e ru lin claus, w ought to strongly
feel teeir res joasiti, lty for  wor end wno wugrt to retire from the
active fielu, rave incltenily indicuted that through the dissolution
of tne fighting serviccs, all  uverytaing were liquideted, showing
tieir inclieation to protec' tuemselves by the maintenance of thoir
own rulin strus.
The G.I-yI Cabiu t, wrile stressing thoroughgoing reflec-
tion and thoro. -goi rey  taueo of the vrole nation, comprised in
its owa arzei , vt out showin y refloct fon the members who
were colit ce'l re le  e v, cad the same Cebinet made
so tettone blaeble.
Phe cel lapse of the T T Cabinel, therefore, should be
regerded ss e eturel  of  fb to aeve e deterination
t, curry ot e pofor..
afor  it wer cleimed shet erdeavour
was rade t ve on the Cetl' colea who "hae pot occupled
the lordine pocitione for the nast 1o yeors."
Lut tho resl ituc ton peveeled tct rotm. Taisehuro, who was
ctive in the wr f or an iay the foregolg Cabinet, and who be-
ceme the Chiof ccrotory of s Cabinet, we: formerly the President
of the Legislative Bureau in tre  Tio! Cabinet. and he was the very
person who played a leediay rolo in setting up thc system of having
the post, of the Ministers of Var and Yevy filled by the officers on
inc uctive sorvice liat.
Just ut that time, TOLn lajime and FuTI lle Ikunosuke, Privy
Councillors, known as up ol: ts to the foregoing systen, received a
call of TSUGITA at tacir orn resi le ces several times. xnd this
TUGIT, claimed he sicceeded in persuading the foregoing Privy Coun-
cillors to egree to niy own pro:ositioa, naking him very proud on
tmt uccount.
This establishment

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.87)
- 2 -
This establisluuont of he y tem of necessitating the Ministera
of War and tn Navy to te those officers in the active service was
responsible for bringing ubout the miscsrriege of the UGAkI Cabinet
and also for luyine o tro basis in ottins up the militariem.
HotIkIJ Jen jiro, ome Minister, was tho lerder of the General
opirit ual Mobilization moventent thet served to help the militarism
from ono side. Later toplyint became the centrel figure in the lec-
tion purificet ion capaign and  pa jcipated, lirectly and indirect-
ly. in creetin n reco mi ti  ection of members
on behalf of the ror abinot.
Furthe more, the el oue who reco mended Tu GI P and HORTkIRI to
tDE  R to serve a en in st rumen tip Lirectiac the sTDEHARA Adminis-
tratio fros te lint the cene, wee the tureaucracy including TzaWA
Tatio wo wasi 1etr .
mbe e were   so of Jovolopoent in com ection with the
Mauchurleffei    of l tarim thet marked the
whole Jape se ic. I.  cr ll. crotinized, with a view
to vir cso, te political lea ders in the mean
while, ren  e of ortrue of yey Tapen.
The -et i   Pfair jut before the Manchurien Affeir, and
the October ffeir elirtely fier the sere Manchurian affair, proved
to le the credle of : ilit riem in Japen. The forogoing two Affairs
re sti'l rel! see t hisorically. ut trey were in line with a Fascist
rovolutionary movemout w c! . fightia sorvice, especially the Army,
jntended to use a the tool for ncir aa. umine tho political leadership.
Tue parcu afrair wes engineered by giv. Gen, Nar Vice-Minister,
bnd b, I.  unjakl, alef of the Military Duties Pureeu, by NaGATA
Itsuzen, Cn ef of the  litary ffairs Socti on and by NINaiIY Haru-
stige, ice ief of t cenc rel taff, who forned the brain trist of
the al y and whe juIned uands with the Rightists amone civilians.
Countine n the eid of U I Ya Jat i, Var Ministor, threy int onded to
cncirele the Tip riel ciet, t n  ses ton, to practise a coup d etat.
This wae  Mare frair.
Meetin a stron o t  or everal I Jinzaluro, then Com-
mander of tle First ivi ston, to  o n olo enled uneccomplished.
he s  of the 
Cabiuet were attrtbut le,  clre tencer shat had the March affair
s its oriin.
The October ffui" wcs un amed revolutionery plot enginmered in
october 1931 by the younger elerent of the army with, in the center,
T. kA. Yosbitsugu and   ingro of the Genoral steff office,
who were the predominating figues i. the rry. Ty MI Jiro wns the
er  inister et that tire.
Phio plot tecame divolged hefore it wa: carried oit. ARakI Ssdao
per uaded the foregoing officers to stop the design. The gondermerie
force sterted uctivities. Event uolly the plot ended unsuccessfully.
"oreover, tue cecond aTsyy Cstinet collapsed on account of
this Cctober affair snd also or account of the  vou nt for Coalition
Cabinet sturted arone political parties under the fafluencc created
by the same October affair.
Despite

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.82)
- 7 -
Desptto the fect that the inaiie circumstances of these two
affairs were very c learly kncn enon all the militarlsts, neither
UcI mar MTAI, though in the post of var Minister, cared to
punisn any offenders, but rether t ey showed their tacit underatand-
. The Cabinet in power was sponrentl afru! of a mere shadow
and nover showed en ttitude of clar'fying th responsibility of the
ien invo lved.
Because tie political partie failed to offer any opposition or
to take eny ropres ive rea au agr lnet n forecuine political of-
fousive of the trmy, it lod , ve ourr ce of the way sffair, even-
ully rosulti  cotlp tfl theory about the
commtit tior . party politice.
wreis o ettension wes given
soricusly to se rcn f i cad Cetol or Pair. This ettitude wes
repousible fe t subs puont confroattti  of  cor rol perty end
tho odoha or Imp ritl ur perty, so lia  ilitery discipline
is re tnd the contr we ts
The co ot per felr witn ne NagaTe Totouzan
clioue whic ws  freia two Affeirs, or in other
words, T Fe, ile 1, E  VoshiJiro, NAI Korelku,
Cre..-,  rorashiro J. Sumihis and
 Taty, Cau wore t a cola' w couatituted the brsin trust of
the amay from the time of the tnt a ffti until tre war of Greater
ale, paa they placce em lve la the nositior f wer leeders.
Tn the Tmperiel . perty Shere we e aRarT Sadso. Ma akI Jinaze-
uro ond  Toahit r.fter the uttreck of the Fahruary 28th
efeir t wes rell una ropr   the cont col porty actine in
collwil w alwaye in sad
a1reurstorcs.
not
 bhe Terr y gat cae are being ettri-
e fuiein teto o coutrpsr cas she Tmperlel ey
perte cora 1lffhoso lodents
or lrcel a  su'afe tofmlliterlsm.
Phe r elder statesnen
ldhaveistsndfr
tae sake of avertrav and determin-
tior to rosort te he final ext ccordtnery meosure.
a  c  wesof found reom
 the
Pe t tmo uts to tie The elder steoosmen witr Fm  the
o cer, will r ill, f m. They shoul
fore be hel ousible for ro ar tat
.  t dy is ade of the re ton between the moto Cabinet
t the Tmperial Dise,  wiil be  r couructine the election
of the recom lendatio tem, the iet me aters whe played tm leeding
role n t clectiop and who he rrin trust of the Imperial Rule
ssistsace Political ssocittion worked inside end outeide the Govern-
went and whe int erested thencelves in at proccedings of the viet and
whe vorked in support of the Tojo Administratiot shoull be held res-
ponsible

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.86)
- 4 =
ponsible politically as the collaborators of the Tojo Cabimet. Thus
1t 1s clear that ABE Nobuyuki, ENDO Ryusaku, YOKOYAMA Sukenar1, HASHI-
MOTO Seinosuke, CASA Tadao, MAEDA Yonezo, YAMAZAXI Tatsunosuke, MIYD-
S rhyY cn! T."ye Yunitosh! wore sue men who acted vigoursly as
the leadere.
Estrbi ishment of : : le: of u ocreic principles is possible
oly through te purging o? the group of trese politiciana, holling
th en reaponsitle for tis war lefect.
e of Pur y wos y . oh loague with the
fi ti services or tar  the utilizstion of the military back-
roual. The nw uc le ilnt ried with coto Tumio clique heve
to  cdvant o ? he opposltica o the nilitarists to the politi-
cal perles tit teceme co splcros c he Manchurian Afreir.
Thi wes fllow t a roher i se of the -called newest
reaucrete inctudin n  Heo't an  I Yobusuke of the Man-
chhurian ra n?
 Yoji n OYRA Kiwao
of tho Kiker Ta reup.
Amons tie Burearurat. of te ore aistry field are HIRozAWA
cehlll an a  stou vitn o rnio ir the center. There
is also an t r cl ique iaclup lc  Yissteda and ABE Motoki with
Lord K. or IIe u tte pivot.
In tne Feld or Fince, taere Fre TnY., TWATA and AOk.
d in the ericulture-Foresty dantretion, there are ARrA,
I. TRO and . GOU.
T ir lacn power is likely to mahe Itself felt as the govern-
t lafi ence even efter the wrr. For the ake of an effective reali-
alion of a deroertic re volution in Japen, a thoroughgoing purging
of urer uerec should be carried out decisively.

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.93)
OUT
DESCRIPTION OF ITEMS CHARGED
OFFICE AND PERSON
DATE OF CHARAR ANT
(Subject, file number or title, type of document, and date,
TO WHOM CHARGED
mecurity classification, number of items, etc.)
F/HO
867N.6363/4-2648
A-139 frorr Boghtad
Fine?
12-3-69
8.25-75
10-52
D8-1033 (3-2-54)
USE OTHER SIDE-CANCEL CHARGE OUT WHEN FILES RETURNED
GPO:1964-0-730-154

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyor Japan, December 11, 1945
DC/R
LECM 4DVISER
LUNGLASSIFIED
MAR 8- 1946
No. 92
DEPANTMENT OF STATE
SUBJECT:
Folitical Parties in Japan; Developments During
Week Ending December 8. 1945
HO.H
ITA
JAN 1 -1946
The Honorable
IFEIR
The Secretary of State.
lIn'S
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's despatch
No. 83. December 3. 1945. and previous despatches tranamitting
894.00/12-1145
weekly reports prepared at the request of the Supreme
Commander on the general subject of the development of
Japanese political parties, and to forward herewith copy
of this Mission's latest report covering the week ending
740.00119
December 8, 1945.
A summary appears as the first section of the report.
Respectfully yours.
GouyAtemg.
C8/LE
George Atcheson, Jy.
Enclosures:
UNCLASSIFIED
1. Copy of report entitled
"Political Parties in Japan:
Devebopmonts during the week
n7c
ending December 8. 1945."
JAN 2 1945
Original and duplicate, with
894.00/12
reverse carbon, to Department.
DCI
NF Jnn
800
JSService:jwb
Dr

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.93)
molomure No. 1 to despatch No. 92 dated Deeember 11. 1945. 
George Atcheson, Jr., Acting Political Adviser to the Sapre
for the Allied Powers. Tokyo, Japen, on the subjeet "Politieal
in Japan: Developments during week ending December 8. 1945.
事
OFFICE OF TI UAIT D BTE POLI PICAL ADVISER
rokyo, Jepen, Decenber 10, 1945.
ULA
LTL
VLOLRTG THE
ury. laciusio  five elers of tne House of Representetives
in the recent list of wor cri inl sisnects issued by Headquerters
crestet e flurry withir the iet. he rogressive Party hes been par-
ticularly affected ith two of its prolinent membere named. Observers
believe thet she p: rty . split inte ructions, cscecially if further
designetions of mmbers s wer criminal suspects ere made. The selec-
tion of a president t beco c of prime iaportence to tho Progressive
Party tad continuous ef orts are bein: mede to reach an agreemont on a
leader wo cen preserve ot rty unity cnd at the sane time be beyond
suspicion of wer :uilt. .t present General Js.. I seems the likely
choice :lthough nis iliter, cureer is tgainst him.
Phe Liberels are quiet and apx rently relieved that none of their
letcers heve yet been singlod oit for arrest. They expect to plece 200
cendidates in tho field and to increese substentielly their present 50
seats in the louse of Representatives. They ere undoubtedly hoping to
control the bulance of power in the noxt Diot between the chestened and
diminisied rogreasives and the up-and-comin' Social Democrats.
ne ocit1 Democratic Party hts egt in rejected an eppeel made by
the comnunists for e nites fro it on the grounds thet the two perties
lack mutuel trust. The Connunists tre playins on intemel differences
within the Soc ial Denocratic Party and trying to wean away the left
wing group to their own ca"p.
12-1145
The Conaunist Ptrty estinates 1ts present membership at 1200 and
ic confident or doubling this number within the neer future. 500 party
enbers attended the Toirtn Conzrees on December 1, 2, and 3. The par-
ty heldt mass ectin on beceber  attended by approximately 5,000
persons at whicn a list of 1,Cco wer cri inel sispects was reed. The
list included the mperor, Tmperiel Fenily, end representatives of
Japen' rulin: clas es. Phe position of Cheirmen of phe Cent rel sxe-
cutive Com ittee of the Com unist 'erty remeins open, with oll other
offices fi Llec. the conseneu: js that Cormunists meay win two or three
seats in the comin' clections. End of Sun ary.
Phe Progressive arty
Events of tho week neve further sheken the sorewhat creaky struc-
ture of the Japan :rogressive Perty. Two of its prominent members,
Ofn asataxa and kal yogoro, appeared on the list of wer criminal
suspects announced by C. on December 3. Dr. OT: was chairman of the
party's inportant Political freirs Investigation Committee and had been
charecterized by one of the perty leaders as a financial and economic
expert of the hignest caliber and one of the test "breins" among the
Progressives.
The Progreesive Party
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.93)
UNCLASSIFIED
The Progressive 'erty leeders, realizing their vulnerability on
the question of wur responsibility, h ve fron the beginning mmde cons-
tant efrorts to koup ia the bac gro und und out of perty office those
viet members regerdec es prominent politictlly during the war. Such
men as N. Chikunei,  Ladao,  Yonezo and TSUgUMo Kuni-
to shi have not been pemm itted to plsy an open, active role in the new
perty. It is a prrent, powever, that  was felt to be safe from
charges aa a wur cri inel ane his inclusion in the leadquarters list
came as a "bolt fro" the biue" to the party.
ccordin: to the suni, . I Yusuke, who spoaks nglish fluent-
Ly une hes wide scgue intuice aion moricans, hes been meintaining
daily couttct wit! . llied eudqu rters in an effort to keep american
officials full, af rmo rgerdin the perty pletform and activities
and to sccure prior consont to it: personnel and policies. TsRumI has
since tated in private conversttion that noither he nor the perty had
any idea way  snoul te annrehonded as a war crininel. He added,
however, thet :le tiur were firther crrests of perty members, the
roeressives woule be lit:le v ected by ot. 's lose.
The order ror te are of ane lul hes made even more
urgent the sutuctio: of  pesicent for the rogressive Perty. Indi-
cations are tat nlt tre lunt a  leader for the perty becomes
poisible witr in the very ne:r ut ure, : selit will be inevitable.
reginnine  n 1vion or the I nd  factions
of the eiyukai tnu inceito, the :'rosressive Party set out to be 
amell, comptct rour but nt non uxtended itself to include individuels
of varying politicel beckgro ndo. For  time it appeared that K MITSU
rsuneo, iet mcmber of long ctendin and elfere inister in the second
Cof Cabinet, woulu try to ut forth riice  Y as President of the
party. owever, pres: criticism of  CY tni finelly J To's Diet
speech cirectly denouncin the mince s a war crininel eliminated him
from the r ce before  wn licied for rr est.
t precent denerel  ch nces oo to be the best. He has
renounced ni: ilitery ran! end a" become a candid: te for the House
of Representatives from Ckeyane Prefecture. In spite of UGakI's re-
putetion a a liberal and en onponent of milit ry aggression, he can-
not so easily slough off his militury che r: cter end some Progressive
Perty leeders tre still dubious of the expediency of choosing him as
their leader.
Admiral  R, former Ambassador to Mashington, has also been
mentioned but his military (as well es ais diplometic) career is like-
wise ageinst him. urin the pest weck, a party lelegation called upon
Viscount :T' A" to offor hin the presi ency of the party which he
refused. ©ther cossibi lities, suzzested as "dark horses" by the Japa-
nese pres: ure 
loshio, peaker of the louse of Representatives,
IAT. Chuzo, presert :inister of Justice, fois TR. Tsuneo, former
Imperial ou ehola inister, end seron TI, one of the elder
statesmen.
Both Party members and out side observers ure agreed thet failure
to select u presidont will ceuse the Progressives to lose considerable
strength in the preuent iet end in the coming elections.
The Liberal Party
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.96)
-BNCLASSIFIED
Tne Liberel Perty
In an int erview witn r. mnerson on ecember 8, Mr. ANDo Masasumi,
one of the prominent lo ders of the Liberal Party, co mented on the com-
i electione and tne rty in eneral te follows:
The aucleus of the Liberal arty vas a sme ll group of Diet
members calling themselves the Doko-kai whien formed in
1s40. They were not no. line ted by X0 in the elections of
1942 end, sccordine to .0, only 9 of the 29 members at
that time won sests in the election. Phose original 9 were
the following: icy. Ichiro, now president of the Liberal
Party, DOasazumi, .I Yukio, IL. Hitoshi, now
Minister of velfere. r IT. Reikichi,  . Ryoichi,
Jes IJL Jiro, BNo otero, end .N I Vatsu. rAKI
has siace joined the Progressive Party.
o's group onposed Jepe:'s s lnerence to the tri-pertite
pact, roJo's policies, end particulerly wer with the United
states. He stetes that nembers of the Doko-kai opposed
Prince ONoY's "New tructure una the Imperial Rule
asaistance s ociution and thet they went so fer as to make
speeches geinst the Jh..
The Liberel  arty is not largo inmumbere end is not trying
to obtain a wide following at the exnense of integrity, as
the Progrossive 'arty is doing. lhe Liberels are endeavoring
to put up candidates for iet seats who heve not before been
members of the House of epresentetives. They believe in the
injection of new blood into Janaiese perliamentary politics.
(one might renark the! this is sorely needed in view of the
average age of nost of the lesders who have so far come for-
ward
The Liberels auvocate political and economic freedom. The
 rogressive rarty speaky nucn of "new economic policy" but is
vague in its definition. Ihe Progressives oppose both socialism
and bureuucruticeliy controlled economy. They say they favor
econoaic controls but by the people instead of by the bureau-
crats. Ihe Progres: ives want to oust present orficials and
become bureaucrete tnemselves in order to administer the con-
trols. Do believes they actually mesn only to revise slight-
ly the economic policy naintained during the war. Or. Masataka,
recently named as a wer cri inal suspect was a staunch advocate
of the Government's econo ic policy during the war. OTA's pre-
sent support of the property tax is believed to be motivated by
his desire to counterbalence his activities during the war.
The Liberal Party believes in the indissoluble trinity of
"initiative, responsibility, and liberty". conomic freedom
must be establisned as a fundemental principle. A free
economy will in practice contain defects. However, defects
in a free economu can be corrected by an enlightened social
policy and by the reeducetion of merchants and industrialists.
s a result of the war, there is no balanced economy in Japan
today. Neither progress nor balance cen be atteined except
through free competition.
The Liberal
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.97)
UNCLASSIFIED
- 4 -
Phe Liberal Party heartily supports in principle the three
urgent bills now before the viet, slection Reform, the
Labor Union  ill, and the Land xeform Bill. The party wili
howover props a taln ravisions in the bills as they now
stand. In the Election Reformm Bill the Party objects to
division of certaln voting districts and favors a "one pre-
fecture, one clection district" sy tem. Furthermore, e
single entry trensfer y tem for voting is favored insteed
or the ro tricted plurel systen" in the present bill.
nith regard to the ubor union till, the party should support the
establishment of I bor unions and the principle of collective
bargeining. rhere should be provisions to prevent strikes with-
out prior notice in public utility industries.
rhe and xoform  ill deserved much study and there would be
neuted viet argunent over its provisions. Farmers were ap-
parently objectine to a cliange in payment of rents in money
insteed of kind, since they have little faith in the value
of currency and fear instubility in rice prices.
At the conclusion of the interview, r. NDo made an impassioned
plet for retenti on of the Emperor. e emphasized that the Emperor
wes venerated as a father by the Jepencse people and intimated that
Lis removal would throw the country into confusion and would vitiate
much of the good work accomplished by General Vacarthur's Headquartors.
The Jocial Jemocratic Purty
The Jocial Democ rats heve increased their representation in the
present Diet to l6 members with the adherence to the perty on December
4 of KINc IT. Iku, Independent, of Oita prefecture. In a statement
to the press on December c. I TI Choseburo predicted that his
party woull win m re than loo seats in the coming January elections.
He indicated thet from 200 to 300 candidates would run for the Socisl
Domocratic Party in the elections and that in the event of a split in
the rrogressive 'arty, the ociclists ight become the leading party
in the Diet. However, in an informl conversation on December 8,
. G.. Toyohiko expressed the opinion thet the Socialists would win
no more than 50 seats.
irincipel event of the week so far as the Sociel Democrats were
conc erned wes the ir seconc refusal to join the Comnunists in a united
front. wo Co munist representatives, .IY, shigeo end KURokI
shigenori, called at sociεlist headquerters on December 6 to propose
the formation of a united front. vecision had been taken earlier in
the weck by the Central Committee of the ocial Democratic Party and
the Com unist representatives were informed of it by YoNo Mitsu end
NIrIc Suehiro, representing the Socialists. The basis for the Socia-
lists' first rejection on October 20 was thet the parties were not at
that time formally organized. The Communists stated thet they had
come a second time in view of the fact that formal inauguretion of
both perties had now taken place. The Socialists replied thet coope-
ration was impossible due to lack of mutuel trust between the two
parties and that both should concentrate on consolidating their res-
pective organizations. The Communists coriented that stabilization of
the people's
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.95)
UNCLASSIFIED
5
the people's livelinood need not be delayed until consolidation of
the parties was accomolished and added that they would return "hund-
reds of times" until the Social Democrets were persuaded to accopt
their proposal.
The Communist: are quite aposrently naking use of the "united
front" propostl us a strategy to emberracs the socialists and encou-
rege dissension wit in the party renks.
The ocial Lemocretic crty is composed roughly of three groups,
known populurly as ha-min-kei, Nichi-ro-kei, and Nichi-mu-kei. These
designetions cignify previous effiliations with the numerous prolo-
terian parties which heve risen end fallen during the history of the
Japenee laber coverent.
sha-min-kei, now representin the Right ing or the present pary,
derives from the hakai inshu-to (cocial emocretic Party) formed in
1926 under the leudership of  Be Iso. It inherits the traditions of
Japan'u first Labor perty, lso called hakai Minshu-to, founded in
1901 by e group o: which  Iso wes a memher. It is interesting to
note in passing tnet of the founders of the 190l party, one (KaTAYAilA
en) became the futner of Ju:nese Com unism, another (KOTorU Shusui)
was executed in 1910 for conspiracy to assassin te the Emperor, and
otner (k . iyoshi - .. .  I) hes spent most of his life
in the Uaited tetes  a journelist and propagendist. Members of the
ha-min-kei in the prosent cocial Democretic Party are the "aristo-
crets" of tne Jeptnese labor movelent. hesides the venerable ABE Iso,
they include I Ic uenire,   I Croseburo, and Y.MAYAlA Tetsu.
They support the Inperitl institution and oppose the Communists and
the for ation of e populer front witn them.
The Conter mey be said to he represented in the present Social
Democrttic Party by the Vichi-ro-kei, or the group deriving from the
Ninon Ronoto (Japen Lator-Farmer Perty) also founded in 1926 under
the ledership of a  iaeshi, now deceased. This group, led by Konc
'itsu, and including .. Ro omakichi, F.I Jotaro, and TAn.
Harumi, is described ts "oprort:nistic" and as heving supported the
Government during the wir. ost of the menbers joined the Imperial
Rule  ssistence ssociction. ichi-ro-kei is tid to be the momt in-
fluential clique now i: the oerty. It sun orts the he-min-kei in
upholding the mperer ey.ter ne in opposine the mited front with
the Communists.
ichi-mu-kei is  Left ine of the present Social Democretic
Party. Its neubere were effilisted with tho Vihon Musan-to (Japan
Proletarien Party) of which  Y er ju w : en original leader. Be-
sides . R, others ia the prezent clique are P.FT. Seido, TAYiNo
inoru,YHideo, enson, nd l ro Jiichiro. T
Jtmol0, who is reportud to be u member of the Eta, Japen's outcasts,
drew attention to nimself when ne failed to bow to the mperor at the
time of the latter's a peerance in the Diet. ichi-mu-kei is close
to the Comnunists end a perently fevors cooneration with them. with
the exception of .rc, most members are willine to abolish the mpe-
ror system after a period of democratic educetion of the people.
Ihere have been rocent inetances of cooperation anong labor
unions and Communists and members or the Nichi-mu-kei. such evidences
may increase, bs it is clearly the policy of the Communiet Party to
work within labor organizations and other parties to develop their
politicel strength graduelly.
UNCLASSIFIED
The increasing

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.92)
UNCLASSIF
The increasing pooularity of the social Lemocratic Party among
intellectuel circles may be inuicated by recent polls taken among stu-
dents.  t Iokyo Industrial College the ociel Domocratic Party won
preferential place in a poll of 419 students, with 97 votes. The Com-
'unist Party won second place with ?8 votes. However, widespread po-
litical indifference wes indicated by the l90 students who expressed
no party preference. Reports of a poli taken at lokyo Imperial Uni-
vursity amone 1,131 students inticate tnat the ocial Democrats won a
me jority of the vutes, εlthough exect figures nave not yet been pub-
liched.
Phe Comaunist Party
The Fourth Cougres: of the Comunist Party of Japan was held in
rokyo on Deceaher 1,  and ?. eetint's were not open to the public:
uccordine to the press, 5oo perty members attended. rhe following
officers were elected:
Gonerel ecretary und hairaan of the oliticel
organization Comittees: P.Iyuichi
.embers of tne Central xecutive Conmittee:
r yuichi
I Yoshio
UAI snigonori
atomi
lY hiveo
I. ren-kai
IY. TC enji
Leputy Conlittee :ebers:
. Iy: Tetsu (Oseka)
I... 1o Iwao (Oseka)
ID. higeo (Oseke)
umaji (Ckeyena)
hoichi(Pokyo)
orendo(Tokyo)
 Vo jiro (Tokyo)
Cheirmer of rroperanda conlittee: TY. Tc Kenji
Chairntn of ublications:.  Yoshio
Chairmen of Labor Jion ene Ferners' sectior: Ya Tya Shipeo
Chainnan of  ecr taritt:
hivenori
Pho fuct thit the position of choir n of the Central xecutive
committee was left vecent may be sirnificant in view of the fect thet
OXiN( Jusumu, Communict lcader Long in ussie end China, hes not yet
returned to Japan.
silu. Yosnio hs stated in an interview that the party member-
suip throughout Jupun now nunbers 1200 and that approximetely 1200
additional applicent will be adnitted in the near future. an appli-
cant must have two sponsors who are party members, must subscribe to
the party platform, pledge himself to work within the party organiza-
tion
UNCLASSI

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.97)
UED
tion anu agree to pay party dues in proportio: to his income. Largest
memtership is now in Tokyo and Ouaka but tne party boasts adherents in
33 prefectures includin orkaido.
lc. denied vigoroucly revort: te have been circulated by Hafo-
Y. Tcniro of the Liveral Perty to the effect that the Communists were
receiving funds fron coviet tussi: and that they had purchased a print-
ine press ot a cost of v500, 00c.  IG. stated on becember 2 that the
party had to dete collected y150,0o0 from its menbers throughout Japan
tnd that its uxpenses hed been Y80,000 with :70,000 now remaining in the
party treasury.
The declered policy of the party is not to use violence to accom-
plish its tims but to resist violeice in self-defense if necessary. The
subject was discussed et the 'erty consress, with emphasis on the danger
of the "white terror" und tho necessity for the orgenization of"self-
defonse units" by the central orsen by the party.
The comanists es & party hove not softened their attacks upon the
Imperial institution. When one recalls the protests of the Japanese
Goverrnent over a cartoon of the mperor appearing in Vogue Magazine
some years ago, it comes with a shock to note the cartoon in the Decom-
ber 5 issue of the Co munist organ Red Flag, which has now assumed the
for nat of a regular newspener. The mperor's chair is perched on a
cannon barrel which hus been crushins a figure labeled "Japanese Com-
munist rarty" just now struggling to its knees. In the background a
blonde individual marked "llied Headquerters" is plucking silk-hatted
"war criminals' from the cannon and throwing them down. Some of these
ere frtnticelly pushing the impcrial cheir out of reach of the long
arms of Headqurters while HIno-ITo looks anxioualy behind him.
The Communist Youth League at its meeting on December 4 decided
not to include the abolition of thc mperor system and establishmont
of a People's xepublic in itc program. This step was taken in order
to attract as large  entership as possible from young people through-
out the country. The program adopted included opposition to imperia-
liam, militurism, and war; advocacy of suffrage for men and women 18
years of age und over; land and jobs for repatriated soldiers; and co-
education.
Communist sponsored "People"s ass  cetings to Pursue Nar Crimi-
nals" were helc in Toayo, saka, .obe, yoto, Yokohama, Sapporo, and
rukushima on vecember &, the anniversary of the Pearl Harbor attack.
coveral thousand persons ettended the Tokyo meeting which was orderly
and proceeded with a minimum of heckling. t this meeting a list of
more than 1,ooo war criminuls suspects was reed. The list contained
the mperor, Empress, all princes of the blood now of age, 20 offi-
cials of the Imperial Household, reguler officers of the Kempeitai
(military rolice), rmy, Nevy, and Special Police, loo buroaucrats,
10 career diplomets, 8 prefectural governors, 30 officials of the Just-
ice Ministry, including bureau heads, thought control prosecutors, 10
police officials, 20 members of the Privy Counc1l, 166 members of the
House of Peers, 300 members of the House of kepresentatives, 69 members
of the ¿aibatsu, 146 Rightists, all officers of the IRaA and numerous
representatives of literary, religious, journalistic, and other circles.
Included in tho list are Baron HIDE R:, Admiral YONAI, HATOVAVA Ichiro,
and the wife of General TOJO.
800. Political Parties
JKEmmersonianl

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.98)
SECURITY CLASSIFICATION
UNCLASSIFIED
FORM DS-507
3-5-47
REQUEST FOR DECLASSIFICATION OR DOWNGRADING
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SECTION A
TO: 1. ORIGINATING OR ACTION DIVISION
EXTENSION
BUILDING
ROOM NO.
FE
2951
us
3150
2. REQUESTER'S NAME
DIVISION
EXTENSION
BUILDING
ROOM NO.
Wilson C. Flake
FE
4834
NS
3181
3. DIVISION OF RECORD:
DC/R
DC/R, REF, PD, etc.
SECTION B
ATTACHED
THE FOILOWING DESCRIBED DOCUMENT APPEARS TO NO LONGER WARRANT ITS SECURITY CLASSIFICATION
TYPE OF DOCUMENT
Desnatch No. 92
TO:
DATE
The Secretary of State
12-11-45
FROM:
George Atcheson, Jr., USPOlaD TOKYO
PRESENT CLASSLFICATION
CONF DENTIAL
SECTION C
THE CHIEF OF THE DIVISION TO WHICH THIS FORM IS ADDRESSED OR A PERSON DESIGNATED BY HIM WILL REVIEW THE SUBJECT
DOCUMENT AND INDICATE THE DESIRED CLASSIFICATION.
CHANGE TO:
RETAIN PRESENT CLASSI-
UNCLASSIFIED
FICATION
BY AUTHORITY OF:
DATE
2/1/52
OFFICE
ASS'T
U. Aleis Johnson
SECTION D
INSTRUCTIONS-(1) The requesting division will complete lines (1) and (2) of Sectiom A and al1 of Section B of
this form in duplicate.
(2) Both copies of this 'form, with one copy of the document or docnmeats to be dowagraded or de-
classified, will be forwarded to the action or originating divisiom conceraed with the document attached where
practicable.
(3) The action or originating division will, if the contents warrast, declassify or dowagrade the
document by completing Sectiom Cof this form in duplicate aad routing both copies to the divisiom respomsible for
maintaining the official record copy.
(4) The division that is the custodian of the record copy, upos receipt of this form, will file the
original of Form DS-507, change the classification on the record copy of the docmmeat iavolved, aad forward the
duplicate copy of this form to the division isitiating the request.
(5) The division which initiated the request will mote the actiom takea, make the mecessary chaages
in classification of documents in its possession, and then route the duplicate of Form DS-s07 to the Chief, Di-
vision of Security and Iavestigations (CSA).
(6) In cases where the originating or action division wishes to imitiate the declassificatios, the
entire form will be completed and routed to the divisiom maintaining the official record copy.
SECURITY CLASSIFICATION

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.94)
89
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japan, December 13, 1945
Dc/k
RESTRICTED
No. 99.
SUJC:
Transmitting Memoranda of Conversations Between Prince
KUNOYe na a Menrer of this Mission.
TA
CH
The Honorae
IFE/R
The Secretary of State,
AL
/IAS
Weshington.
sir;
I have the honor to enclose copies of two memoranda of con-
versations dated November 6 and November 7 between Prince KONoYE
and Mr. Bishop of this office in regard to certain political
developments in Japan prior to December 7, 194l.
Frince kONoYk expressed his willingness to distuss such
political cevelopments in Japan prior to "Pearl Harbor" as were
known to hi. and offer-d to explain fron his private notes and
894.00/12-1345
panere, insofar as possible, the background of these develop-
ments. In the first convers tion Prince KONoYE stated that he
had leerned only recently for the first time that the United
States and Great Britain had offered to mediate in the "China
Incident" in 1937; that general developments during 1941 were
nlmost a rsce between the Cabinet and the Military, resulting
in an pperent inoincerity on the part of the Cabinet and con-
tinuing acte on the pari of the Milit-ry to dispose its forces
advantageously; and that in presenting the American memorandum
dated November 26, 19-l, to the Privy Council. Premier TOJO
described it es an ultimatum nd as the final American word.
bi this cherecterization was not accepted and the final de
AI 221945
cTofon was thet the craracter of the memorandum was subject to
individual interpretation.
In the second corversation, Frince KONOY. described the
events immediately precedin his : simation as Prime Minister
in October l94l. He st=ted that at an Imperial Conference on
for war with the United St"tes, providing progress in the con-
versations had not been made by the first part of October;
CS/D
that on October 12 the Japanese Government held a conference
to discuss vhether the decision of Se tember 6 should be im-
plemented. Prince KONoY: expressed his firm be ief thet agree-
ment ith the United States was still possible. He said that s
FILEL
the War Minister. General TOJO, was diametrically opposed, and 
for various reasons asserted that it was impossible to withdraw
Japanese trops from China and that failure to reach an agreement
with the War Minister forced Frince KONOYE to resign. Prince 
KoNoyE added tha the position of the Navy was extremely importt
DCR
123
carry
Ca1

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.89)
-2-
cerry out the mperor's orcers to continue conversatlons with
the United St: tes at ll ccsts. n said that controlling ele
ments in the evy were of the opinion thet there wee considerable
coubt or J pan'e s: ility to vage war successfully against the
United states. rrince aonui at ted tnt he could not recall,
offhance, specii ce sions c usin the gradual widening di-
vergencies beteen t.e United St tes nd Japan but did feel
stronly ta' on sever: occesion: bot: the United States and
o mi h  exetore efictiv fforts to come to an
uncerst:n ing. as an ex pie, he  entioned his proposed meeting
with th resi cnt  t.c nitc stes in l?4l and explained
that it was his int: tio, if a meetin with President Roosevelt
were held, to : sk the pe or to oreer the withdrawal of Japanese
troops in Chine. cY: e tat ht (x ected that he would
heve teen assessin tec uoor his ruturn to Jopen, but he was
confident that Jepenere trcon: voulr he been withdrawn if
so ordered by the eror.
Resect FaFr
Geor re At cheson, Jr.
Enclosures:
enoranuun of conversation
uted Sovember C, 1.
?.
emorendun of Jonsotion
ctedver
Uri. inal nc cuplic te, it. re-
verse carton, to Depertment
Copy to Jeneral Htaaquarters,
Supreme Comman er for Allicd rowers
711
MnBisnoo: Jwb

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.94)
90
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch No. 98 dated December 13, 1945, from
George Atcheson, Jr., Acting United States Political Adviser to
the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, Tokyo, Japan, on the
subject "Transmitting Memoranda of Conversations Between Prince
KONOYa and a Member of th:s Mission."
RESTRICTED
COSAION
Movenber 6, 1945
rarticipants:
Prince onY
r. shIA, (who cted es
interoret r);
r. .isro.
jubject:
pec: row of oli l cev lopments in Jepan before
"Pearl certor".
The rollowin is  Ft o rs ue by Prince KONoY to Mr.
Bishop in a personel in: erview on the atove date.
Frince KoNoYe s: i thnt .t wouls be glad to discus
informally on a personal besis na to explain from his
own privatt notes n:  ers such political developments
in Jaoan as were known to him. He seid that he had no
intimete knowled:e of the activities of the Japanese
Government or Cebinet ofter his resinotion as Frime
Minister in middle October, 124l. Frince KOnOY added
that t e broad scove of cevelopments could hordly be
covered in one interview tu woul r quire conciderable
894.00/12-1345
tire, but at he woul be le to devote as much time
to it as was desir-ble. H  id tht any important de-
velopments and situtions in Jop'n  er well known to him
ont that he coul ive the full b ckround.
W'th reg re to te o cnin of the "Chine Incident" in
1937, Prince Monoyt soid that in rendin e cerpts from Mr.
Grew's book "Ten Ye rs in T on" he he" le rned for the
first time of the American  nd ritish offers of mediation
and that stronre as it nay seem, the Japanese Foreign
Minister had nglect d to renort to the Prime Minister
these offers of mci ti n. (The Fore:gn Minister at that
time was Nr. HIkOTA Mok1.)
Speakin: n rolly f cev lopments curing l941,
KONOYE said tht it as or ctically  rece between his
rovernment end the militery; the one attempting to make
cro ress in diplontic conversetions with the United
Stotes nd to :orestol) the : ctivities of the military and
the other to dispoe
its forces and to achieve a position
of preparedness. ONof. dded that because of military
activit ies, the Cabinet and the Japanese Government were
iven the impression in the eyes of the United States of
being insincere, if not diehonest, in attempts to reach a
Deaceful

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.94)
-2
91
penceful settlemnt and that on the other hand, failure
to make roress in the conversations was used by the
..ilitary as a reason for tht necessity for further mili-
tary cisuosit one.
rrince aonoYe saic t t ne uiu not kmow the details
of the aiscussion in the J panese Cabinet of the "Novem-
Ler 2 (1s-1) note" which was nanaed by the Secretary of
stt. to the Ja nese Abassedor in woshington: but that
when the note had been resented to the Privy Council by
the Catinet it was uer cribed by Tojo as an ultimatum from
the United States Governrent and s the final American
word in the convers tions. Prince OMOY went on to say
that curing the di cussion, certain members of the Privy
Council had oint.a cut thet the document was marked "ten-
tative" -ne t et  er fore it could not be connidered as
the "finsl ord" or as an ulti:atum; but the Japanese
Cabinct stronly argud for its interpretation of the note
s an American ulti.atum. According to Prince KONOYE, the
declsion finally reac'ed by the rrivy Council was that
whether the note was n ulti atun was   tter for indivi-
duol interpretation.
MwB
:..E.
WB: jwb

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclomure No. 2 to despatch No. 98 dated December 13, 1945,
George Atcheson, Jr., Acting United States Political Adviser te
the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, Tokyo, Japan, e
subject "Transmitting Memoranda of Conversations between Primee
KONOYE and a Member of this Mission."
RESTRICTED
LEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION
November 7, 1945
Participants:
Prince KONOYE;
Mr. USHIBA, who acted as
interpreter;
Mr. Bishop.
Subject: Some political developments in Japan in 1941.
The following is a resume of remerks made by Prince KONOYE
to Mr. Bishop in a personal interview on the above date.
Prince KONOYE discussed the events preceding his
resignation as Prime Minister in the Fall of 194l, •s-
pecially the proceedings of the Imperial Conference on
September 6, and subsequent developments in Japanese High
Policy. He explained that at the conference the decision
was reached that the conversations with the United States
should be continued, but that if by the first part of
October, 1941, orogress had not been made in the American-
Japanese conversations, end if it appeared impossible for the
Japanese to reach an a reement with the United States on
minimum Japanese demands, Japen should immediately reach
the decision to undertake preparetions for war against the
United States end the implementation of war plans.
Prince KONOYE continued that on October 12 the Japanese
Government held a confer nce to discuss whether in accordance
with the above decision taken at the Imperial Conference on
September 6, the Japanese Government should then decide that
it wes no longer reasonetle to expect that agreement with
the American Government could be reached on minimum Japanese
demands ana whether, if that decision were affirmative, the
Japanese should not toke the decision to prepare for war
with the United States and discontinue the conversations
which had been in progress until that moment. As Prime
Minister, KONOYE said that he firmly believed that an
agreement with the United States was still possible and
that the conversations should be continued in order to
achieve that agreement. It was alsohis belief that if
an agreement for the withdrawal of Japanese troops in China
could be made, the whole problem of American-Japanese re-
lations could be amicably settled. Prince KONOYE added
that the War Minister, Gen ral TOJO, was diametrically
opposed and argued that there was no longer any possibility
of arriving at an agreem-nt with the United States aid that
Japan should at once take the decision to prepare to go to
war with the United States.
Prince

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.98)
93
-2
Prince KOnOYE said that the fundemental disagreement be-
tween himself and the Wer Minister hinged on the problem of
withdrawel of troops from China. According to KOmoYE, Gemeral
TOJO contended that although he appreciated the Prime Mimister's
difficult tesk end his unguesticnable sincerity, it was not
possible for Japan to agree to the withdrawal of troope from
Chine for the reasons that it would utterly destroy the morale
of the Jepenese Army and people, that once Japan had yiolded
to American preseure, the United States would resort to more
and more strin ent and arrogant measures against Japan and in
the end nothing woul be left for Japan to do except to dofend
itself by arms which woulc be difficult with morale destroyed,
that even though : temporary settlen-nt of the "China Incidont"
were worked out, reletions between Japan and China would again
break down within two or three years, and that there were in-
ternal weeknesses in both the United States and Japan and
accordingly, it was the best time for Japan to make up its
mind to prepare for war against the United States. Prince
KONOY added that there were four subsequent convereations
between the Prime Winister and the War Minister, and that
failure to re: ch an agreement with the War Minister during
these talks forced Frime linister KONOYE to resign.
In explaining that Gen ral TOJO when he became Prime
Minister, in spite of the views which had just been revealed
continued the conversations with the United States and gave
the appearance of seeking a peaceful settlement of pending
problems, KONOY stated that in this connection the position
of the Navy was hihly important. He said that prior to his
resination as Prime Minister, the Japanese Navy had taken the
stand that it would agree to whatever course Prime Minister
KONOYE decided upon: If the decision were to continue the
conversations with the United States, the Navy would give whole
hearted sup ort; but if the Prime Minister were to decide to
undertake preperations for wer, the Nevy would not oppose that
course.
Prince KONOYE then gave the following description of
developments:
Through infcrmal but entirely reliable information,
the Prime Minister leerned that the Japenese Navy
was far from confident of Japanese ability to wage
a succeasful war agsinst the United States and that
the real desire of the most important leaders in
the Japenese Navy was to avoid war. The Army and
General TOJO were also informed of this basic
attitude on the part of the Navy. On October 13
or 14, 1941, the Gummu Kyoku Cho (Chief of the
Military Affairs Bureau) of the Army went to the
Chief Secretery of the Cabinet and told the latter
that the Army would not ive up its idea of pre-
paring for war immediately aginst the United States
if such were merely the wish of the Prime Minister.
However, the Army would consent to give up this pro-
gram if the Navy were formally to express its opinion
that the Japanese Navy was not prepared for war against
the United States. The Army therefore asked the Chief
Secretary of the Cabinet to obtain formally the offi-
cial views of the Navy Ministry. Consequently, the
Chief

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.99)
94
-3
Chief Secretary called upon the Chief of the Military
Affairs Bureau of the Navy and aaked him to present
formally the official views of the Navy. The Naval
Chief of Military Affairs refused to consent to
this proposal and stated that the Navy. officially
end formally, would go no further than to agree to
leave the entire matter in the hands of the Prime
Minister and to support whatever decision the Prime
Minister should reach. The Army continued to oppose
the views of the Prime Minister and the Cabinet was
forced to resign.
With regard to the question of a successor.
it wae proposed et one time that Prince HIGAsHI-
KUNI should form a Cabinet in which the Army and
the Navy would be able to discuss the whole matter
with complete frankness nd come to an agreement.
The Emperor was reluctant to accept this proposal
and thereupon Marquis .IDO recommended General TOJO
as Frime Minister. It was Marquis KIDO's confident
belief thet TOJo hoving been informed of the real
views of the Navy and thoroughly realizing that
Japan could not reasonably undertake a Pacific
war with the Navy fundamentally opposed, would be
forced to reconsicer his view of a possible war
with the United States end exert every effort
to continue the converstions with the United
Stetes to = successful conclusion. The Emperor
himself, when he commanded TOJO to form a Cabinet,
expressed his merious desire thet General TOJO
shoulå make a "clean slate of the whole matter".
reconsider the questions from a new angle, and
continue the conversations et ell costs. In the
light of these circunstances, Prince KONOYE wes
also confident, at that time, that ToJo was sin-
cere in continuing the conversstions with the
purpose of avoiding war. In view of TOJO's in-
terpretaticn which he expressed before the Privy
Council of the November 26 (1941) note as an
American ultimatum it then became apparent that
the TOJO cabinet had given up further hope of
successfully continuing the conversations.
Prince KONOYE said that he could not offhand think of pe
cific or direct occesions in the gradual widening divergence be
tween the United States and Japan; but it seemed to him to be
the result of an accumulation of bad feelings and misunderstanding
ever since the Manchurian Incident of 193l. He did feel, however,
that on several occasions both governments could have exerted
more effective efforts to come to an understanding.
Prince KONOYE said that, for example, he believed that his
proposal for a meeting with the President of the United States
in 194l was one occasion when an understending might have been
reached and the question of withdrawal of Japanese troops from
China could have been satisfactorily solved. He explained that
it was his intention to meet the President in person and then
by telegraph to ask the Emperor to take a decisive step and to
order

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.94)
95
order the withdrawal of troops from China. Prince KOmoYE went on
to say that this wasthe type of decision which the mperor had
made when Japan decided to surrender. Prince KONoYE concluded
that he believed confidently thet through the direct intervention
of the Emperor the problem could have been solved at that time
although he fully anticipated t at he would have been assassinated
upon his return to Yokohama.
mw8
M.W.B.
MWB:jwb

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.92)
HE FOREIGN SERVICE
203
OF THE
FR
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
(mins Brakhau
AIR MAIL
DC/R
1CA
No. 961
125
Sabjeet: Repert on conditiens in Fermesa
by the Military Attache for Air
1946
3na 1CA
CONFIDENTIAL
Nary
12
The Honorable
Washington.
110 Ratim
1/10/46
DEPA
110 Comsi
DIVISION OF FOREIGN
REPORTING SERVICES
JAN 2 2 1946
MENT OF STATE
Sir:
万
The Charge d'Affaires ad interim has the
894A.00/12-1445
honer to enelese copy of a memerandum dated Deeember
12, 1945, by the Military Attache for Air, Lioutenant
Colonel Otto R. Haney, on conditions in Fermesa as
observed during a recent five day visit.
DIVISION OF JAPANESE AND KOREAN
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JAN 2 4 1946
ur q
Enclosure:' Military Air Attache Memorandum, 12/12.
tola
CS/D
STATE
To the Department in original and Heetograph.9
JFMelby: bj
FEB8 1948
DCE VE Int
800 Formesa
na
Cat
HECTO SENT TO
Dist
ess

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.91)
204-
Enclesure to Despateh 961 dated December 14, 1945
from the Eabasey at Changking, China
-COPY-
CONFIDENTIAL
Embassy of the United States of America
Orriee of the Military Attache
Ghangking
12 December 1945
MEMORANDUM FOR THE CHARGE D'AFFAIRES:
I have the hener to advise en some of the
Impresslens whieh I resceived as a result ef my stay
in TAIèoKU, Fermesa during the peried of five days.
Iy impressions are based en eenversetioas with Vaited
States Aray and Mavy persgnnel statiened there and
from viewing the western part or the ialand frem the
air.
CIVIL
General Cmks-y1, former Sovermer ef Fakien
Prevince, is the Geveraer Seneral of the island.
Aocording to Celenel Gridley, Commanding Offieer ef
the U. S. Army forees in Permese, and his ezesutive.
Celonel Pegs, the Gevernor Gemeral is an able and
sineere effielal, but is bedly handieapped by è peer
staff. Gemment: Existing latelligeaee reports en the
beekground of Seneral Cmn-yi indieate that his admini-
stratien when he was Geverner of Fukien was rather
cerrupt.
At proseat there are 170,000 Japanese treeps 1a7
Formese. of these, mest have diearmed theneelves and
are awaiting transpertation te Japan. It is said there
mese have been very coeperative in giving any lafermatien
desired, and such data have been cheoked and found te be
acourate.
The eiviliam pepalation appears te be quite
healthy and cemparatively well olothed. There has been
little or me eivil diserder, but the Ameriesas speak ef
a growing resentment towards the fambling and blundering
of the Chinese administration, and they further state
that under Japanese rale mest effielals, ezeeutives and
teehnleians were Japanese and that as all Japenese
tiom will. find it difficult to fill the vacameles with
qualified persensel.
The language ef Fermesa is Japanese. The people
of Chinese...
ITEGSTAESOEAEIÇU
OL THE
LHE LOBEIGN SEBAICE

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.89)
205
—2•
YAR KZREE
the larger tewns and the seaperts were dam
struetion has commezeed.
SOMEDNLGAZIONS
and Tainan three times weekly.
ECONONLS
The blaek market 1s s0 - 60 Yen to the s dellar ank eme
from 400 to 60o Yen per menth.
appear to be plentiful and no shertage of food is te be
expeeted.
The candle power of the lighting system appears te be
normal and power facilities are operating rather effieiently.
AMERICAN CONGULATE
but is occupied at the present time by U.S. Army and Maval
offieers.
It is the suggestien of this offieer and Lt. Kerr,
statien a representative in Formesa. At present, Lt. Eerr
good vantage peint to ebserve the administratien and
Kerr addressed to the Russian Consul.
OL THE
THE LOSEIGN SEVAICE

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.91)
AIRGRAM SIONT
Department of State
NO.A41
Washington,
TIME
BUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS,
Dec 14, 1945
TOKYO.
FOR ATCHESON, ACTING POLITICAL ADVISER
The Department 1s transmitting by air pouch
biographic Information concerning the following
Japanese:
HATCYAMA Ichiro
KAGAWA Toyohiko
RAWAI Tatsno
00/12-1445
LANA AS I Wataru
1200
CC
42
/L
8>

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISION OF
CENTRALSERVICES
TELEGRAPH SECTION
DEPARTMENT OFSTATE
97
INCOMING TELEGRAM
ACM-
6935
Paraphrase before com-
municating excapt to
Moscow via War
Government Agencies.
JA
Dated December 19, 1945
RESTRICTED
Rec'd 11:17 a.m., 20th
ACTION:FE
894.00/12-1945
INFO:
Secretary of Staty
s
U
Washington
C
A-B
SA
4222, December19, 8p m
SPA
Critical items on Japan held foreign news spotlight in
EOR
DC/L-C
press December 19.
SPD-2
FC-14
Sent Dapt 4222; repeated Chungking 242 Dopt repeat to
OIC
INI
Tokyo.
OPI
PL
Long Tase despatch datelined Tojohare December17 gave
DC/R-1
negative picture of Japanese political situation Story
gave impression that Parliament vas ngaged not in logislsting
ume
but in preparing for electicns while political parties vith
12-2145
excoption Ono ingof Socialists were agitating in favor of
preserving emperor system. Item stated that Ono had split
115(Aunt)
vith Socialist majority and favored united front with Communists.
Thie was firet indication of attitude of Japanese Communiets
toward Emperor given in Soviet press.
Despatch also gave ndications that dissatisfaction in
provinces,
C
291945
RESTRICTED

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.80)
98
RMBIRSCTSD
2. , D 39, 8 p.., from e 
proviscse, inflessep and unemployment ve ring
IEVrIYA ia Jang art1ole by Kudrgertesw esmésened "Jepeneee
Militerists is pepests Toge" ocmplatmee mes easement and
party leadere were ing nothing to pantse peresme snd regime
respomsiblo for mstsesal catastrophe. Artiele aded by
stating that Jepemesse "orperiment" ahoved tss 9s wms impossible
to convest people the had brought countey to estestrophe into
Demoorate by "origaal method of self-red
WT
RESTRICTET
44

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.94)
DIVISION OF
ACTION
ES
CTION
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
99
INCOMING TELEGRAM8
CTC -R
PLAIN
Aoikoo JA
ACTION:FE
. INFO:
Tokyo via War
:s
FE
DC/L-C
CA
Dated December22, 1945
A-B
JA
SIA
SEA
Rec'd 12: 47 p.m., 24th
SPD-2
FC-14
CIC
Secretary of State
INI
OPI
Washington
PL
SA
894.00/1
SAJN
220, December ??
SA/M-2
DC/R-1
According to press, Konoye'splan for constitutional
reform reported to Emporor sone time before his death
was as follous as regards Emperor institution:
2-2245
"Arttele Ono The Emperor is able person to
preside over and simulteneously exercise sovereign
power. But it shall be defined especially clearly
that the exereise shall be made with the asaietance
by all imperial subjecta. (Nov Article).
20ms
Article Tuo. It exclusively belongs to the
12-2745
andopen the Imper1al Met. (This 1s our No. 220
December 22). But the constitut1onshall be so reformed
that the imperlal t mey b diveolved by itscor
and that tt 1spossible topetition the throne
56
allow the Diet to he opened any time.
Article Three.
PLAIN

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.98)
100
PLADE
-2-#220, December 22, from Tokyo via War
Article Three. It shall be provided that the
Esperor 1s authorized to use his prerogative to
dissolve the Diet tvice or three times so as to
avoid the abuse of this imperial authority.
Article Four. With regard to urgent impertai
ordinances, able standing coumeil (to be so provisiomally
called) to act for the Imperial Diet shall be establisbed
and these ordinances ahall be referred to it for
deliberation.
Article Five. It shall be clearly provided
that the Emperor's order to the govermment in the
form of entrusting the government with it may be
1ssued within fixed bounds and the legislative organ
shall be respected.
Article Six. Heretofore, the Emperor's prerogatives
relating to the command and orzanization of the Ammy
and Navy have been exercised with the assistance, the
military organs and it has not belonged to the state
minister's duties. But it shall be specified clearly
that the command and organisation of the Army and
Navy forms part of state affairs.
Article Seven. Because the matter of war
declaration and conclusion of peece and treaties
required baste,
PLAIN

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.98)
101
PLAIN
-3-#220, December 22, from Tokyo via War
required haste, it belonged to the Emperor's
prerogatives, but as was clearly shom by the
letost war, today's misfortume as brought about
with the fighting services insisting on the in-
dependence of the supreme command and mating a
(appeal to?)
direct apel the throne, thereby keeping His Ma josty
(truth?)
uninformed of the tthuh.
ATCHESON
RB
PLAIN

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.91)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japan, Jamaary 8, 194s
No. 182
D
Orficaor
FAR FESTERN AFFAIRS
Subject:
Japanese Amnesty of Oeteber 17, 1945.
Dele
The Henerabie
The Sesretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the hemor te refer te a memorandam dated Desem-
ber 18, 1945, from Mr. Charles B. Fahs, Chief of the Far
East Divisien, Interim Researeh and Intelligence Servise, te
this Missiem requesting imfermatien cencerming the Japemese
Imperial ammesty ef Octeber 17, 1945, and te ferward im reply
a memerandum en that subjeet prepared by a member ef the
staff of this Missien.
Respectfully yours,
XR 140.10119
Geerge Atchesen, Jr.
FEB1-1946
molomure: 1
Memorandum dated Janwary 8,
1945: "Japanese Amnesty of
Octeber 17, 1945".
Origimal and hectegraph te Department.
800
Jsservice: jwb
FEB8
BECEIAED
ael es NAL
BECEIAED
bE2u.r
H8A8A
NAL
Cat
D1st

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 182 dated January 8, 1946,
from the United States Political Adviser, Tokyo, Japan, on
the subject: Japanese Amnesty of October 17, 1945.
MEMORANDUM
January 8, 1946.
SUBJECT: Japanese Annesty of 17 October, 1945.
The annesty, ordered on the occasion of Kanname-Sal
(Harvest Festival), was the third effected under the amnesty
ordinance promulgated September 26, 1912, the earlier two
having been ordered at the time of the funerals of the
Emperors Meiji and Taisho in 1912 and 1927, respeotively.
Previous to the promulgation of the amnesty ordinance
general pardons had been decreed on the occasions of the
Emperor Meiji's attaining his majority in 1869, at the time
of the promulgation of the Constitution in 1889, and on the
occasion of the death of the Empress Dowager Eisho in 1897.
The Imperial Rescript ordering the amnesty last October
follows:
"Wie, in the face of unprecedented
emergency place Our confidence in the support
of and collaboraiion of the public in general
and are seriously anxious that the whole nation
do their best to overcome the crisis. We here-
by especially order the officers concerned to
effect an amnesty. Ye, the officials and
public in general, take to heart Our Wishes."
The terms of the amnesty, as drawn up by the Justice
Ministry and approved by the Emperor, are summarized below:
I. PERSONS AFFECTED
Almost one million violators of the
following laws:
1. Criminal Law (including lese majeste,
insurrection, sedition, disturbance of the
peace, etc.)
2. Election Law
3. Peace Preservation Law
4. National Defense Law (including in-
subordination, aiding the enemy, eto.)
5. Law for the Control of Thought, Speech
and Press
BECEIAED
6. Army and Navy Criminal Law (including
release of secret information,
abel es NAL
PEB204
entrance of forbidden areas, etc.)
A89
7. Conscription

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2-
7. Conscription Law
II. FORMS OF AMNESTY GRANTED
A. Complete Pardon (320,000 persons, of
whom 2,000 were in prison;
the rest were under various
forms of restriction)
Those in this category were freed, if they
were in prison, had the ir civil rights
restored and their criminal records des-
troyed.
B. Commutation (37,000 persons)
a) Death penalties changed to life imprison-
ment
b) Life imprisonments changed to 20-year
terms (life sentences of persons over
70 or under 16 on Sept. 2, 1945 shortened
to 15 years)
c) Term imprisonments changed as follows:
1. Term reduced by ? for those whose
sentences had not commenced
2. For those whose sentences had
commenced, the remaining period
was reduced by t, except that
those who had served less than
half of their terms had their
time reduced by only t
3. Terms of those over 70 or under
16 on Sept. 2, 1945 reduced by 1/3
No commutations were permitted for those
charged with:
1. High treason
2. Sedition
3. Incendiarism
4. Counterfeiting
5. Bodily injury to superiors
6. Aiding the enemy
7. Crimes against the laws of Korea,
Formosa, Kwantung and the South
Seas Islands
C. Restoration of Civil Rights (600,000 persons)
a) Those who had lost their civil rights or
had them suspended for crimes for which
BECEIAE
they completed prison sentences at least
5 years prior to Sept. 2, 1945
ofel es MAL
ER204
b) Those who had lost their civil rights or
1089
had them suspended for crimes for which
they

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.96)
- 3-
they completed punishment not
involving prison sentences be-
tween Feb. 18, 1942 and Sept. 2,
l954, or who were conscripted for
military service
c) Those who had lost their civil
rights or who had them suspended
whose crimes were committed when
they were 18 or less and who com-
pleted their sentences or were
exempted before Sept. 2, 1945,
unless their sentences called for
death or life imprisonment.
Lists of those affected by the amnesty have not
been published and it is doubtful, in view of the large
numbers involved, whether such lists would be of value
for the interpretation of future political activity. To
the best of our knowledge, few if any political prisoners
liberated in accordance with the SCAP directive of October
4, l945, recently ordered reinstated as citizens in full
right, are taking an active part in politics except the
Communists, the more important of whose names are doubt-
less already familiar to the Department.
R.A.F.
RAFearey:dm
HECEIAED
pel es
088
87

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.90)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OFFICE OF THE UNITAD STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japan, January 8, 1948
No. 182
I C.
Subjoct: Japanese Amnesty of October 17, 1945.
The Honoreble
The Sesretary of State,
Washington.
Siri
I have the honor to refer to a memorandum dated Decem
Der 18, 1945. fron Mr. Charles B. Pahs, Chief of the Far
East Division, Interim Research and Intelligence Service, to
thie Mission requesting information concerning the Japamese
Imperial amnesty of October 17. 1945, and to forward im reply
a memorandum on that subject prepared by a member ef the
4.
staff of this Mission.
Rospectfully yours,
Joorge'Atcheson, Jr.
-1946
C.
chare:
4℃
Memorundu dated Juury
1 46: "Japaneue Amneety of
uctober 17, 1945".
Original und hectograph to besurtment.
JSSorvicel 
EP S
1946

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.98)
THE
MEMOIRES OF PRINCE
FUMIMARO KONOYE
Translated From the Asahi Shimbun
Dac. 20 - 31, 1945
OKUYAMA SLL.VTCE

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.98)
Preface
The Amegican-Japanese Negotiations during the Konoye Cabinet
were conducted over a long peried of from April, l941 to October
the same year. The talks at first were pushed under utter
secrecy, but as the talks leaked out, various cenjectures were
indulged in, and en the basis ef muoh conjectures all sorts of
attacks and criticisms were eepeentrated en the Gevernment.
I did net give up hepe uy te the last moment and seneentrated
my efforts en it. It wes beeause there were reasens fer which
an American-Japanese eenflict had te be aveided. First, the
outbreak of the Reioh-Soviet War. Secerd, the views of the Naval
leaders. Third, the matter of mmterials.
The Tripartite Alliance was oaneluded on the premise of the
German-Soviet-Japanese linking relation. But whon the Reich-
Soviet War breke out, thid premise was overturned. The Soviet
Union ran te the Anglo-American camps and our co ntry was placed
in the worst situation, a situation where this country might
be compelled to regard the United States and the Boviet Unien
as eur enemies. About this matter, I should like to refer you
to the sevarate article on " "Tripartite Alliance.
Admiral Oikawa
Approves Alliarce
The second iseue which conoerns the views of the Mavy. As
regards the conclusion of the Tripartite Treaty. at first I
thought that the Navy would not easily apprve the pact. This
nttitude of the Navy could easily be supposed judging from the
Navy's attitude thereon since the days of : he Hiranuma Cabinet.
Navy Minister Zengo Yoshida at the time of the Cabinet
organization agreed to the idea of etrengthening the. tripartite
Axis, but when the talk developed and the Tripartite 4lliance
with stipulations un military aid was proposed, it became a
big issue for the Navy. Navy Minister Yoshida seems to bave
become much worried. His heart trouble became worse and he was
forced te resign.
When Admiral Oikawa became the Navy Minister, the M oce
approved the Tripartite Alliance. I became suspicious the
abrupt manner in wich the Navy anproved the aliiance and inviting
the then Navy Vice-Mirister Toysda, inquired into the ciroumstances,
Vice-Minister Toyoda said:

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
• "To speak the truth, the Navy at heart is opposed to the
Tripartite Pact, but since th domestic political conditiensno
longer permit further opposition on the part of theNavy, the
Navy unavoidably approves it, The Navy approves it for a
politieal reason. From the military standpoint, the Navy has
no such confidence as tofight the United States."
I said:
"This is something which is unexpecte to me. Politics is
something which we statesmen deal vith and the Navy reed not
have a concern in it. The Navy should examine the matter purely
from the military standpoint, and if it has no confidence,it•
should oppose it to the last. Isn't it the way to be loyal to
the country?"
Vice-Minister Toyeda said:
"Now that the situation has come to such a pass..
please have understarding for the position of the Navy. There is
no longer any other way except that of preventing the rise of the
obligation for military assistar ce in the Tripartite Pact by means
of dip) matic negotiations."
Shortly afterward, Admiral Iseroku Yamamoto, Commander-in-Chief
of the Combined Leet, came up to Tokyo and I saw him. The Admiral
was strongly opposed to the'Tripartite Alliance. The obstinate
opposition of the then Navy Minister Yonai to the Tripartite Alli n
in Hiranuma Cabinet days meemed to have be a strongly due to the
assistance of the then Vice-Min ter of the Navy Yamar.ote. When
1 moliicned to the Admiral that Vice-Mirister Toyola told me such
nd such things, the Admirl said:
"If I am told to fight regardless of consequence, I sha 
run wild considerably for the first six minths or a year, hut I
ave utterly r confidenc for the secend and third year fhe
Crpartite Pacthas peen conclujed and we cannet help it. Now
that the situaticn has come to this pass,pe ycu will endeavo:
"er aveilalo er n mericar-Ja ese war."
Thus, the i a of t' Nav ould oe scer i d. if the
mind of the Navy was such 1 co side ed the nct al appl:'is
of the Tripartite Pact  hac tr bo done with considerabl: cere
ar circumsroction.ven if th Sovie on took si'sw
the Allies, ne viw of the Navy was s ch, Ameri
Japarese conf. ct had tbe evoided as much as circims a ces
permitte.

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.98)
Naval Leaders Still Cautious
When the American-Japanese Negotiations were opened, both
the Army and Navy enthusiastically hoped for the successful
conclusion of the talks. But when the morth of August came
the Army's enthusiamm began cooling. The views of the naval
leaders, however,. remained unchanged. I heard that naval
officers in the lower rankm began te raise strong views, but when
I msked the navsl leaders about it, they always replied
unconcernedly, "We shall control muoh blind movements."
At a liaison conferenoe, the Chief of the Naval General
Staff made a clear deelaration:
"If the other party is the United States alone, we have
some corfidence in fighting it, but if the Boviet Union gomes
in and if we have to corduot operations both in the North and
in the South, we have no confidence."
When October came and my Cabinet was on the verge or
resignation, the naval leaders were stil: in favor of
continuing th: hmerican-Japanese negotiations. But in riew
of their relailons te the Army and of the internal relations
of the Navy, they did nut state it on the surface. They
merely entrusted the matter to the Prime Minister.
The third issues concern materials. Our dependence on
the United States and Britain in regard to aaterials, especially
munitions, was a serious vulnerable peint for this ccuntry.
In regard te the possibility of our coyn:. geuting rid of. this
vulnerability, I ordered the Planning Board since the first
Konsye Cabinet to conduct frvestigations se, al times. The
result invariably was "imp: ssible."
The return to normal of A"erioan-Japarese trade and the
economic activities in the Southwest Pacific which constituted
one item in the American-Japanese Megotiations can be
said as having been aimed et the acquisition of these materials.
In the course of the negot aliors, however, the United
States invoked the asset-freezing act with the result that
the acquisition an. replepish.nent of the e materials becane
utterly impos ible. 4s a result, the is ue became
aoute. If the condition s allowed to continue as it was.
the gonds in  rage wo d gradually decrease. It was whut we
:alled "jii!(. reral impoverishment).

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.97)
Severance of Economio Relatiens
Meame Gradual Impoverishment, Teje Asserts
It was She fuadamental reamen In he insistenees of the
war advecates that war with the Umited States should be
commenced as early as possible, Te prevent the war materials
from becoming exhausted by degrees, there were enly twe meanss
te make it pessible te ebtain materials freely through a
successful conclusiom ef the American-Japanese Negetiatiers.
or to meet the military demands by premoting the demestio
production capacity. Merein is seen ene of the major reasons
for the Gevernment's cencentraties of efferts on a successful
conclumion of the U,S,-Japan megetiatiens.
Replenishment ef Munitions
and Petroleum
When the American-Japanese Negetiations reaohed a oritical
stage, the Government again ordered the then President of the
Planning Board to cerduct investigations inte war materials'.
Upon investigation, he gave the following reperts
"Only petroleum forms the mest difficult preblem te mettle.
and it is considered pessible to obtain the other materials.
Even with regar  to petroleum, it is considered pessible to
acquire 500,000 tons towards the end of 1943 and 4,000,000
tons in the course of the year l944, provided the artificial
petroleum industry is extended with the capital ef ¥2,000,000,000.
"Even if the Dutch East Indies is captured by force, the enemy
will destroy its oil facilities without fail. Besides, it is
necessary to censider the matter of transportation. Therefere,
in the firast year we cannot expect to have more than 300,000
tons of eil and more than 1,500,000 tors in the secend year.
It must be considered to take five or six years befere we eam
obtain 5,000,000 tone."
That is te say, the foregoing report made it knowm that ie
would net be possible to get our required amount of yetreleum
even by use of armed force but that the aim of preventing
the war materials from becoming exhausted by degrees would be
attained to mome extent by the extension of the artificial
petroleum industry.
According to a decision made at the Imperial Conference
of September 6, 1941, "There shall be immediately made a
determination to declare war on the United Strtes (Britain
and Holland)" in case it cannot be considered likely as late
as early 1n Octeber to have our demands gratified in the.
American-Japanese Negotiations. But there was no objection

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
to hesitation in the way deelaration on the ground that
there was a possibility of the negotiations being brought to
a successful corclusion. Even if the negotiations turned
out unsuccessful. the deoision at the Imperial Conference
did net say "We should open War " It merely said that we
should determine to open war. Therefore, there was the means
ef going without war with only economic relations cut off.
In faot, the Government considered the mecord course in case
of inevitability.
"It's Domestic Politics That
Commences War"
On the other hard, the war advocates obstinately olaimed em
commenoement of the war on the reund that otherwise the war
materials would become exhausted by degrees. I maid te Plannisg
Board President Suzuki:
"If it is possible te prevent petroleum and ether war
materials from beceming exhausted by fostering the demesele
production capacity, the manufacturing facilities withts the
country should be extemded even at the cost of sany billloms
Isn't it too stupid te obtain these materials at the great
cost of war with the Umited States and Britain?"
Suzuki replied:
"Yes, it is as you say, but it is domestic pelities that
opens the war."
In due course, the Cabiret resigned en bloc, and all things
became helpless. Later on, at a confere co of senior statemmen
on November 29, 1941, shortly before the Tojo Cabinet plunged
Japan into the War, I questioned Premier Tojo:
"ten't it possible to prevent the war materials from getting
exhausted gradually through an increase in the domestic produc-
tion? And, if it is. possible, Japan need not absolutely
inititate war against the United States, Britain and Holland.
How do you think of the policy of going without resort to
war with only the economio relations kept in a state of rupture
Bo as to devise a fitting measure to cope with the situation?"

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.98)
-6 -
Premier Tojc replied:
"Since the inception of the Cabinet, our efforts were
concentrated on this issue, but since we have reached the
conclusion that we shall sink into a state of gradual
impoverishment if we g on without recourse te war with
only economic relations cut off, we have at last decided to
open war."
-Premier Tojo said gradual impoverishment was unavoidable.
and President Suzuki of the Planning Board said the gradual
impoverishment was preventable. Therefore, one of the,two was
lying. President Suzuki's remark, "It's domestic politics
that epens war," must be said te have been very significant.
As is stated above, I endured criticisms and other
trials for some six months and continued the American-Japanese
Negotiations obstinately for the foregoing three reasons.
Below I shall give-a brief description of the progress and
circumstances of the negotiations.
Pros and Cons on.7-Point
American Proposal
Since about December, 1940, talks began to be made between
Bishop Walsh of the highest Catholic school in the United
States "Maryknoll,"Mr. Draft, chief mecretary of the sume
school, Postmaster General Walker and Colonel Iwahata of the
Military Affairs Bureau of the War Office and Mr. Tadao Ikana
regarding the adjustment of American-Japanese relations.
When the month of April, 194l. came, the iwo governments of
Japan and the United States got into the wcod to take the
matter up. What should e remembered in wis connection is
that the American President and Sccretary of State Hull on the
American side and Ambessidor Nomura and : military and naval
attaches of the Japanese Enbassy in Washington on the Japanese
side established contact confidentially and had full knowledge
of the talks that were going on between the civilians of the
two countries.
On "pril 8 the first test plan was put forward by th.
American side. The Japanese side revised it and submitted the
second test plan. On April 14 and Jf cretary of State Bull
invited Amrassador Nomura and held the init:al taiks with him.

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.98)
一7-
Mr. Hull then declared that the cililian talks might now be
shifted to unofficial talks between himself and Ambassador
Nemura and the talks might be continued. As the first
step, he said, the Japanese Ambassador was requested to ask
for instructions frem the Japanese Government.
Ambassador Nomura's cable containing the important offer
and the contents of the basis of the negotiations reached
the Fereign Office here from the afternoon of April 17 to the
morning of April 18. At that time Foreign Minister Matsuoka
was in Siberia on his way back from a visit to Europe.
Vice-Minister Chuichi Ohashi of the Foreign Office at ll o'clock
on the morning of April 18 gave me the first report while
I was sitting in the Cabinet council meeting. At 4:30 o'clock
the same afterneod he again called on me, accompanied by
Director Terasaki of the Amsrican Bureau. Below I shall give
the full text of the plan.
Items of American-Japanese
Understanding
"The Government of Japan and the Government of the United
States hereby accept joint responsibility for the purpose of
negotiating and corcluding a general agreement aiming at
restoration of the relations of traditional friendship between
the two sountries.
"The two Governments of the two countries hope from the
bottom of their heart for prevertion of repetition of the
incidents which have aggravated the friendly feelings between
the peoples of the two ccuntries and for checking of their
unexpected happening, wichout discussing pecially the
causes of the recent estrangement to the re..ations of the
two countries.
"The twe Governments utely hope -that peace will re
established on the oasis of mcrality in +ne Pacific by joint
endeavore of the twe countries. hat the nenace of. deplorable
disturbances calculated tc destroy culture will be dispelled
by early completion of intimate and friensly understanding
between the two oountries: anu that should such b foun?
impessible, further extension thereof wil? re preverted

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
"If the following points are clarified er improved, the
American-Japanese relations will be censiderably adjusted:
"l. The international idea and State idea as entertained by
the two countries of Japan and the United States.
"2. The attitude of the twe governments toward the European War.
"3. The relations between the two government regarding the
China Affair.
"4. The relations of the naval strength, air strength and
shipping in the Pacifio.
"3. Trade and financial collaboration between the twe
countries.
"6. The economic activities of the twe countries
in the Southwest Pacifio area.
"7, The polioy of the twe geveramente coneerming the political
stabilisation of the Pacifio.
"By the foregoing considerations the following understandies
has been reached. The understanding shall be subjeet to the
final and formal deeision of the Japenese Gevernment after
passing through the revision of the Amerioan Sovernment.
"1. The international idea and State idea as emtertained
by the two countries of Japan and the United States.
"The two Governments of Japan and the United States mutually
recognize that these two Powers are equal and indeyendent
countries and mighbering Paeifio Pewers. The tme Governments
prepose to clarify their unity in that the two Severnments
desire for establishment of lasting peace and for bringing about
of a new era of trust and cooperation based on mutual respect.
"The two Governments state their traditional coafidenee that
the various countries and various races enjoy their rights, that
their mutual intorests are to be adjusted by peaceful means,
that their spiritual and material welfare be pursued and be
proteated and that the two Governments recognize the responsi-
bility not to destroy such welfare.

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.98)
-9 -
"The two Governments have a strong determiration to maintain
their own traditional State idem and social order and the
moral principles which are the basis of their national life
and not to allow the rampancy of foreign ideas opposed to
them.
"2. The attitude of the two governments regarding the European
War. --- The Japanese Government hereby clarifies that the
purpose of the Axis Alliance is defensive and endeavors to
prevent the extension of the relation of military linking
to the states not taking part in the European War. It is hereby
declared that the military
obligation based on the Axis
Alliance shall be invoked only when Germany is positively
attacked by a state or states now not taking part in the
European War.
"3. The relations of the two governments concerning the China
Affair:--- The American President recognizes the following
conditions, and moreover, in case the Japanese Government
guarantees them, the American President shall advise peace tc
the Chiang regime on the basis thereof:
"a) The independence of China. b) The withdrawal of
Japanese troops from Chinese territory based on an agreeme t
to be entered into between Japan and China. c) Non-annexation of
China. d) Non-reparatidns. e) Restoration of the policy of
the Open Door. f) Amalgamation (f the Chiang regime and the
Wang Government. g) Self-restraint of large-scale or collective
emigration of Japanese to Cuinese territory. h) Recognition of
Manchoukuo.

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.98)
-10-
"In case the Chiang regime responds to the advice of the
American President, the Japanese Government shall at once
open peace negotiations directly with the Chirese Government
to be newly unified or the elements which are to compose the
Chinese Government.
"The Japanese Government shall submit to the Chinese
side directly conorete peace terms within the scope of the
feregoing conditions and on the basis of the good neighbor
friendship and joint defense against Communiam and the principles
of economio cooperation.
i4. The naval strength, air strength and shipping
relatiom in the Pacific.
"a) Desiring as they do for the maintenande of peace ir
the Pacific, the two countries of Japan and the United States
shall not make any such disposition of naval and air force
as to menace the ot her. Conorete details thereof shall be
submitted to talks between Japan and the United States.
"b) In concluding the agreement Japan and the United
States shall mutually dispatch their fleets for courtesy
calls and make it a sign of the arrival of peace in the Pacific.
"o) In case of solution of the China Affair the apanese
Government in response to the desire of the Amerioan Govern-
ment shall consent to make its good officrs for placing chiefly
in the Pacific of such vessels of its own country as may be
liberated from service. But its tonnage and ot her details
shall be determined at Amerioan-Japanese talks.
"5. Trade and financing cooperation between the two
countries. In case the present agreeme:t materialises and
the two Governments recognize it, the tw: countries of Japan
and the United States, in case one party has goods and
materials found necessary by the ot her, shall be given
protection for sure acquisition thereof. The Governments
of the two countries shall take proper means for the return
to such legitimate trade relations as existed during the
peration of the American-Japanese Commercial Tre,ty.
Moreover, in case the two Governments desire the corlusion
of a new commercial treaty, the matte shall be stuciea in
American-Japanese Negotiations and it shall he concluded
a:cordance w n usual cus oms. For the purpuse of expedi-ing

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.98)
-11-
the econemic cooperation between the two countries the
United States shall offer Japan gold credits sufficient
te realize the development of cemmerce and industry
and American-Japanese economic coeperation aiming at
imprevement of the economio conditions in East Asia.
"6. Economic aotivities of the twe countries in the
Southwest Pacifio area. In view of the guarantee that
the develepment of Japan in the Seuthwest Pacifio area
will be by recourse to pacifie means without resort te
armed force, Japan shall obtain American cooperation and
support regarding the preduotion and acquisition of materials
such as oil, rubber, tin, nickel, ete. im the areas as
desired by Japan.
"7. The polioy of the two eountries regarding the
political stabilizatien of the Pacific. a) The twe ceun-
tries of Japan and the United States shall not recognize
European countries to obtain territorial cession or annexa-
tion of territories in East Asia or in the Southwest
Pacific in future.
"b) The twe Governments of Japan and the United States
shall offer jeint guarantee for the independence of the
Philippines and give comaideration to the method of assis-
tance in case an unprovoked attack by a third suntry.
"8. Japanese emigration to the United States and the
Southwest Pacific shall be given friendly censfäeration and be
given equal treatment with the nationals of other countries.
"American-Japanese Negotiations.
"a) The talks between the representatives of the two
Governments shall take place at Honolulu. The talks shall
be opened between President Rousevelt representing the United
States and Prime Minister Konoye representing Japan. The
number of the representatives shall not exceed five for each
side. Of course, the number does not include technical
experts and secretaries.
"b) No 'observer' of third countries shall be allowed to
partioipate in the talks.
"c) The talks shall be held as soon as the present
understanding materializes (May this year).
"d) In the talks the matters which were included in the
present understanding shall nt be re-discussed. Endeavors
shall be made for discussion on the agenda as previously
arranged between the two Governments and for writing the present

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.98)
L2
understanding in documentary form, The conorete agenda shall
be agreed to between the two Governments,
"Supplementary Rules
"The items of understanding hereby agreed to shall be
written in a confidential memorandum. As fer the scope, pature
and peried of announcement concerning the present understanding
shall be subjeot te agreement between the twe Governments."
Liaison Conference
Immediately Held
In view of the importance of the issue, I called a liaison
conference between the Government and the Supreme Command at
8 o'cloek. The Government was represented by the Prime
Minister.. Home Minister, War Minister, Navy Minister, Vice-
Minister of Foreign Affairs, and the Supreme Command was
represented by the Chief of the General Staff and the Chief of
the Naval General Staff. The military affairs bureau and naval
affairs bureau ohiefs and the Chief of Secretary of the Cabinet
were also present. When the American preposal was made the
subject of talk, the following views prevaileds
1. Acceptance of this Ameriean plan would be the greatest
short-cut to the disposal of the China Affair. The establishment
of the Wang Gevernment failed to achi-ve anything and direet
negotiations with Chungking has become exceedingly difficult.
Since Chungking is now entirely dependent on the United States.
no direct negotiations with Chungking would accomplish anything
unless the United States is placed in the position of incer-
mediary. In view of this fact, the foregoing point is clear.
2. To respond to this proposal and seek rapprochement of
Japan and the United States would offer an excellent opportunity
for avoidance of an American-Japanese war. Moreover, it will
prevent the extension of the European War to the dimension of
a world war and may become the prelude to the bringing about
of world peace.
3. The national power of Japan today has been considerably
consumed. The China Affair, therefore, must be solved as soon
as possible, and efforts must be made to'restore and rear
the national powey. The idea of southward advance which is being
insisted on in some sections is impracticable. Even the Supreme
@ommand says it has no confidence nor preparations for it.
Even from the standpoint of rearing the national power, it is
necessary for this country to shake hands with the United States
at this time and seek to prcmote the replenishment of materials
for the future.

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.98)
-13-
Thus, the majority were in favor of acceptance. As the
conditions te acceptance, hewever, the following views were
expressed:
1. Clarifioation must be made that the American-Japanese
agreement does net violate the Tripartite Alliance.
2. Further clarification should be made to the purpose of
contributing toward world peace through American-Japanese
cellaboration. If as the result of the agreement, the United
States can have its hands eff in the Pacific and strength its
aid to Britain, it will constitute a lack of faith on Japan's
part toward Germany. Accordirgly, the American-Japanese
collaboration is desired to be so developed as to offer media-
tion between Britain and Germany.
3. The contents of the present proposal are too complex.
4. The eriginal wordirg gives one the sense of a return to.
the old order. Therefere, the positive side of the constructien
of a new order should be more clarified. 
5. Unless things are done in haste, there will-be a fear
of the information leaking out. Accordingly, the return of the
Fereign Minister to Tokyo should be urged.
Whether er not this matter should be communioated to Germany.
the following two views 'were expressed:
Such an impertant issue cannet but be communicated to Germany
from the standpoint of faith. At least, before a reply is sent
to the United States, a notification should be sent to Germany.
If Germany is notified beforehand, the country may raise
objections to it. Accordingly, what will materialize may net
materialize. It is better, therefore, to push the talks without
Germany being notified.

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.98)
-14
American Plan Secretly
Communioated to Germany
The following is a summary of a history of the American-
Japanese Negotiations written by the late Prince Fumimare
Konoye 1n the spring of 1942 after the outbreak of the War.
The earlier article captioned "The Ciroumstances Attending
the AmericanKJapanese Negotiations in the 2nd and 3rd Ionoye
Cabinets" forms a supplement to the following article. Ed., Asahi.
Matsueka Preposes
Revised Plan
Irrespective of his outward speech and action, it was
undeniable that Foreign Minister Matsuoka wes mecretly
concerned over the treatment of the American-Japanese issued.
Even on his sick-bed he carefully examined the revised plan
prepared by the authoritiem of the Army, Navy and the Foreign
Office as well as the original American plan and gave large-
scale revision to it. Thus, on May 3 arrangements were made
for the convocation of the third liaishn conference. The
conference in the main approved the revised plan as
prepared by the Foreign Minister.
The main peints of the revision were: The fourth olause of
the matters of understanding, "the relations of the naval d
air forces and shipping in the Pacific" was erazed. A new
article should be inserted regarding peace mediation between
Britain and Germany at the hands of Japan and the United States
in the clause, "The Attitude of the two Covernments Regarding
the European War. The obligation as stipulated in the Tri-
partite Pact should be more clarified, and - public announce-
ment of the terms of peace for the settlement of the China
Affair should be withheld." The assurance . apan that Japan
would never make a southward advance by re surge to force should
be eliminated, and the arrungements regarding che American-
Japanese talks sheuld be eliminated, etc.

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.98)
-19 -
Matsuoka Proposes
Neutrality Pact
While the majority put forward their view that the revised
plan should be communicated to the American side at once.
Foreign Minister Matsuoka considered otherwise, and insisted
that as the first step, a pew proposal for the cenolusion
of a neutrality pact should be made to the United States.
As he would net yield in his assertion, the majority at last
decided to follow his idea.
The next issue raised was the question ef whether or not the
present issue should be communicated to Germany. The Fereign
Minister strongly insisted that he should be trusted for his
diplomatic ability in this vegard. And deeision was made to
entrust him with this matter.
Following the liaison conference the Foreign Mirister
dispatched two instructions to Ambassador Nomura. One was an
interim reply to the United States, and it took the ferm of an
oral statement addressed to Secretary of State Hull from the
Foreign Minister. The contents of the statement said that the
Italian and German leaders were confident of their victery and
argued that American participation in the European War would
merely prolong the war and bring about destruction of civili-
zation, stressing that Japan cannot injure the position of her
allies, Germany and Italy, even to the slightest extent.
The other instruction requested Ambassador Nomura to propose
the conolusdon of an American-Japanese neutrality pact, simple and
clear, as an impromptu idea of the Ambassador. On the following
day May 4 the Foreign Minister went to Western Japan to worehip
at the Grand Shrine of Ise to report his return to Japan to the
spirits of the Imperial Ancestors. In his absence from Tokyo
he dispatched Directer Sakamoto of the EuropeaneAsiatic Affairs
Bureau of the Foreign Office to the German and Italian Ambassaders
in Tokyo and made to them an interim report, stating that the
United States made a secret proposal for the adjustment of
American-Japanese relations, adding that this was a matter of
absolute secrecy.
On May 6 after his'return to Tokyo, when he received a visit
from the German Ambassador, Foreign Minister Matsueka said to
the German Ambassador that if Foreign Minister Ribbentrop had
any view to offer in this connection, he desired to have it.

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.98)
~6
At that time Matsuoka said to the German Ambassador, "To make
a counter-use of the evil intention of the United States and
solve the Sine-Japanese Affair would also be an advantage to
Germany after all."
U.S. Turns Down
Neutrality Pact.
In Washington, while Ambassador Nomura and his stafr were
seriously concerned over the long delay of the Japaneso reply,
the interim instructions reached the Embassy from Foreign
Minister Matsuoka. The Ambassador on May 7 met Secretary of
State Hull and sounded him regarding the possibility of a
neutral pact. As the proposal was made, Secretary of State Hull
refused to take it up in earnest. hater, the Ambassador
conducted a confidential investigation into the views of the
American Government leaders, and it was ascertained that the
neutrality pact might not be a bad idea after the plan under
discussion materialized but was utterly unthinkable at the
prevailing stage.
Ambassador Nomura failed to hand over a copy of the ca..
statement to Mr. Hull for fear that the latter's feeling would
he injured. He even refrained from reading the statement in
entirety. On the sccásion of the talk Mr, Hull is said to srs
urged the openin: of the negotiations themselves as early : .
posmible in a very strong tone, an unusual phenomenon.
Thus, Foreign Minister Matsuoke's test plan failed to take
any effect whatsoever. The situation in the United States becane
more difficult at a quick tempe chiefly t hrough the enfcreement
of the national defense law and the merchantre: cenvoying issue.
From Ambassador Nomura came repeated request: oemanding a
reply. The offices of the Japanese ailitary  d raval attaohes
in Washington communicated to their home rou :ry an atmosphere
of considerably unreserved opposition to Matsuoka, oharging
him with conducting what may be called gesturs jiplomacy. The
military attache in Berlin, on the other hand, sent a telegran
to the War Minister, sayi'g. "According tc a rejort fror
reliable sources. the Government is negotiatirg wiih the Ur'ted
Stutes. We are utterly opposed to such talke In case it
warrants our action, we are prenared to make & ceneral witr-
drawa',"

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.97)
~ 17 .
This incident may be regarded as a ripple caused by the
communication to Germany and Italy.
Matmuoka Urges Throne
to Support Axis
As the situation became more complex and confused, t-
activities of the Cabinet Ministers concerned also became
brisk. On May.8 Fomeign Minister Matsuoka on the occasion
he was received in audience by the Emperor, told the Throne:
"In case of American participation in war, Japan naturally
would have to rise in support of the Itale-German side. In such
a case the adjustment of American-Japanese relatiens would totally
collapse. In any case, if Japan is to be unfaithful to Germany
and Italy in her excessive endeavors for issues with the United
States, I shall have to resign,"
This report was communicated to mc by the Fareign Minister
himself on the following day, that is, May 9. On the same night
I aecretly called the War and Navy Ministers to my home and
conferred with them regarding measures to be taken for the atti-
tude uf the F reign Minister. I made arrangements with them
alse fer the cailing of another liaison conference concerning
the attitude to he taken by our ountry in case cf Americen war
participatin and the methed of actiun in case Germany ep essed
oppositiun ur revision.
Em:-ror Scricusly
cuncerned
On May 10, that is, tne following day I was received in
avdience by His Majesty. The Emperor with a very Beriously
concerned lowk told me the contents of the Fcceign Minister'
report to the Throne. His Meiesty stated:
"In case the United Staten goes inte war. Japan will have to
attack Singapore. And if the Unit d States comes in. the war
will be a protracted affair. As a result, theve may be the danger
of a Reich-Soviet conflict. n such a case Jajan will have to
abandon the Neutrality Fact, and takin: sides with Germany. must
go as far as Irkuts. Such was Ma: suoka's ntatement."

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.97)
一18.
I told His Majesty that the Foreign Minister's report
represented nothing but a mere idea to provide against the
worst case. Even if it was the Foreign Minister's idea, the
Higl Command and the Cabinet Council must approve it before
decisien is taken thereon. I then implored His Majesty to
feel at ease.
I took tbe opportunity for telling his Majesty to the following
effect: For the purpose of disposing of the Chine Affair. the
first issue for the immediate present, there is no method of
action except that of utilizing the United States.  The present
American proposal offers the ideal chance and we desire to push
it. However, I reported on the conflict of views likely to arise
within the Cabinet in case Germany raised objeotions to
American-Japanese understanding, in case of America's second
revision of the already revised plan, and in case of American
war participation after the materialization of American-Japalese
understanding. Not only the conflict of views within the Cabinet.
but alse I explained ir detail the possible split of public
opinions. I further stated that I shal? push things as smoothly
as possible but in case such if found impossible, I may be
called upon to have recourse to emergency measures. Thus, I
expressed my determination.
His Majesty uve His assent  every point of my remarke
and told me to go ahead along that line. Then, I had a tik
with Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal Kido and the. latter told m
that Mateuoka had become too positive in kis views since his retuin
from Europe and rke had losn the .c nfidence of His Majesty. Followi":
Matsudka's doparture from tho Palace, His Majesty sought advice fre.
Lord Keeper Kido on the matler of replacing the Foreign Minister
with semebody else, u Kido reveeled
Ame riccg Suspicous Arbnsed
by Our Revision Pian
The reply from Germany i question fuiled to come. In the
meantime, the submission of the revieed plan as decided on
May 3, to the United States was postpon:d in spite of repeated
requests from the Army and Navy s?de, but at 'ast in view of
the necessity of forwarding the pian to the Anerican side
before the scheduled speech i the Amerioan President on May 
the Foreign Minister at noon on May 12 issued instructions to
Ambassador Nomura permitting him to open negotiatione th rec:
though no reply had come from the German side.

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.98)
-19.
Acting on che instruotions, Ambassador Nomura on two days.
that is, May 11 (May 12, Japan time) and May 12 called on
Seoretary of State Hull and submitted to him the Japanese reviseu
plan, On May 13 Foreign Minister Matsuoka sent another
message to Secretary of State Hull, stressing the two points
as the premise:
1. The United States do not take part in the European War.
2. The United States advise Chiang Kai-shek to open
negotiations with Japan for peace.
Secretary of State Hull urged Amrassador Nomura:
"The American-Japanese talks now in progress are not
negotiations being carried on on a certain basis as yet but are
informal and free talks. So let's talk unreservedly from the
bottom of our heart."
Goncerning the Japanese revised plan which was handed over
to the Secretary of State by Ambassador Nomura, the American
diplomat showed not a small amount of suspicion concerning the
omission of the clause pertaining to the guarantee that the Japanese
side do not make an armed advance into the Southern regions.
As regards the China Affair items, he also showed a special
concern and asked many questions. He also made a noteworthy
remark that the Seoretary must get Britain in contact on the
China Affair issue.
Hull also explained that the domestic circumstances in the
apanese talks easy, and he maintained a considerably cautious
aititude. The scheduled speech of the Presicont for May 14
was postponed until May 29. The convoy issue raised a serious
controversy, and there wer indications tha! he United States,
influenced, by the domestir and foreign si   ions, found it
difficult to make a decision In any case, contrary to the
Japanese expectations, a reply from the United States would
not come.

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.98)
-20 -
Germany Protests
Against Negotiations
Foreign Minister Matsuoka caused delay after delay to .
our reply to the United States, because he wanted to have
the Germar. reply beforehand. He endeavored but in vain,
and he was forced to send instructions to Ambassdor
Nomura on May 12 asking him to make a reply to the
American side. Soon after the reply was sent to the
United States, Germany sent to Japan her reply.
The German reply said that the real intention of the
push the matter of participation in the European War, and
the German side requested the Japanese Government to
clarify the fact that the protection and convoying which
the United States is carrying on is recognized as an action
purposely inciting war, and accordingly, it will be bound
to cause Japan to take part in the war, and alse clarify
the fact that if the United States refraine from such action.
Japan will be prepared to study and weigh the American propomal.
Also in view of the effect the present matter wonld cause
to the Tripartite Pact, the final reply should be shown to
the German side before it was sent to the United States,
the reply from Germany conoluded.
The Italian Government sent a representation to the
Japanese Government, asking Japan to accept the German reply
as Italy's reply, too.
On May 19, Ambassador Ott, as expected, came and expressed'
the dissatisfaction of his home government that the
Japanese Government made a veriy to the American side before
receiving the German reply. He said that a tr-aty which is
cohcluded by one of the Tripartite Powers with another
country weakened the Tripartite Pact Powers front, indireotly
expressing Germany's basic objections to the American-Japanese
negotiations. Ott requested to clarify at least the "obliga-
tion of the United States Government not to intervene in the
war between Britain and the Axis Powers" and the "obligation
of Japan born of tho Tripartite Pact", and in conclusion, Ott
declared in a high-handed manner:

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.96)
-21 .
"The German Government cannot but insist on its hope that
the German Government will be allowed to have full partici-
pation in the Amarican-Japanese negotiations and have
immediate infcrmation on apan'e reply to the Urited
States. If the Japanese Government Jistens to the repre-
sentation of the United Statos without having understanding
previcuely with the German Government on all important
issuee, and derines her future position, it will not be
fitting to the Tripa.tite Relatlons."
From Ambassador Oshima n B p came a lcgiaw.
repurting tnat the German leaders entertained serious anti-
pathy against the American-Japanese negotiations and express-
ing serious opposition on his own part to the talks.
Matsuoka Holds On
In Tokyo liaison conferences were held on May 15 and .
but nothing concrete was decided bcyond the exchange of
information and views. It was obscrya'le that there was an
effect of the frequent representations . from the German
Government and Ambassador Oshima on the attitude of Foreign
Mirister mnama Matsuoka, The vague attitude of the Foreign
Minister became more vague. While the other Cabinet
M:nisters were full of hope, Mr. Mateuoka alene was opposed
to them. On the occasion of the conference of May 22 Director
Cke of the Naval Affairs Bureau told Chief Secretary of the
Cabinet Tomita:
"If the Foreign Minister is opposed to our views, in
case an agrecment malerializes, there will be a fear of
a split of views within the Cabinet.".
The Foreign Minister talked with me on May 23. stating:
"It seems to me that the Jeaders c the Aray and Navy
are enieavoring to have Ambrican Japanese urdere anding
moterialize even if it may impeir cir fricndei ip vith Germany
end tely, but what can we do with such a weak-kneed attitude?"
A= regards the interpretation of Article Three of the
Triparcite Pact. he would not cede in his strong view that
oven  ough che German side attacked an American convoy,
'apin would se unier the obligation to take part in the war and
assist Germany, a. the convoy itself was regarded as attaok.

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.99)
-22 -
This point was repeatedly stressed to the American
Ambassador Joseph C. Grew. Foreign Minister Matsuoka
also said that by so deing the participation of the United
States in the war might be prevented.
According to the Foreign Minister's view, the Amerioan
President was determined in favor of war participation.
In the case of war participation, American-Japanese under-
standing would be oast to the wind. On such an eocasion the
Japanese people would not consent to such an attitude of.
the Army and Navy and may start a riot. In any case, Japan
would be compelled te clarify her attitude in favor of
Britain and the United Stated er Germany and Italy.
He also added that he was determined to insist en concerted
action with Germany and Italy.
In conclusion, Matauoka said;
"As for the idea of His Majesty, I as a subject of His
Majesty will have to follow it."
Thus, he made a declaration hinting that he will resign
as Foreign Minister in a certain warranted case.
Foreign Minister's
Attitude Strange
There was the suspicion that during his stay in Europe
he made a certain important commitment, as his speech and
action gave us such a hint. But as'for the contents of
he talks he made in Europe, there was no way except to believe
his own reports. According to his own reports, Hitler and
Ribbentrop urged Japan's attack on Singapore but he made
no commitment whatever. But a telegram from Ambassador
Oshima said:
"Foreign Minister Ribbentrop considers that Mr. Matsuoka
has entirely revised his view that he would have an attack
made on Singapore, a view learned as a private view of his
during Mr. Matsuoka's visit to Europe."

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.98)
-23 -
Seeing this information, the question arises as to which
was the truth. At any rate, the real intention of the
Foreign Minister then mandwiohed between. the American issue
and the Italo-German obligation were hard to understand,
From about that time Matsuoka began openly expressing his
dissatisfaction and antipathy with Ambassader Nomura.
In the course of his talk with me on May 23, he expressed
his angeer
"The present proposal was not made by the Amerioan side
but I have found that it was Ambassader Nomura whe made the
proposal."
I explained that it was due to his misunderstanding, but
the Foreign Minister continued accusing the Ambasmador of
having everstepped the bounds of his duty. At least when
he found that the proposal was not bern of his own talk with
Steinhardt, Matsuoka began feeling a serious dissatisfaction.
According to a report which the Navy picked up as sent to
the British Government frem Ambassador Halifax, Ambassador
Nomura stated to the Secretary of State Hull that while His
Majesty and the army and navy leaders were hoping the
materialization of the American-Japanese talks, Foreign
Miniater Matauoka alone was oppesed to the talks.
At this repert the Foreign Minister was much indignant and
cabled instructions to Ambassader Nomura ordering him to
remove the misunderstanding of the Secretary of State.
Ambassador Nomura sent a reply, stating:
'I am utterly surprised at your report. There is absolutely
no foundation whatmoever in the rumer."
The reply was accompanied by the explanation that the
Ambassador made a statement to the effect that in Japan
the foreign pelicy cannot be , determined by the Foreign
Minister alone.
To this Matsuoka sent another telegram:
"If the report is baseless, that is all right, but if
any one be found giving such an impression in your place,
it is desirable that proper control should be made on it."

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.98)
-24
Thus, Matsuoka expressed his antipathy against. men close
to the Ambassador inside from the members of the Embassy staff.
The issue was settled then and there but the conflict between
the Fereign Minister and the Ambassador and his lieutenants
eame to the surface.
Nomura-Hull Talks Blow
Ambassador Nomura on May 5, 14, 16, 20, 21 and 28 continued
talks amid a friendly atmosphere. Each time it was off-the-
record talks lasting from one to three hours. The issues
handled concerned an agreement on the Pacifio area, the
Tripartite Pact and the China issue but there were ne migam
 fast dovelopmemt Aocerding to the tone of the Beoretary
of State's talks and bonfidential imvestigations, it seems
to be true that the Amerioan Govermment was dubious ef Japan
having any sincere intention of bringing the negotiations to
a successful conclusien and especially the United States was
fully guarding against the strong views of Foreign Minister
Matauoka and others.
The American President's fireside chat was delivered en
May 27 amid the full attention of the world, but it made no
direct reference to Japan and as for China, it slightly touched
on it. There was a report that special attention was paid to
relations with Janan, which was taken as a sign of America's
cautious attitude. Some of the American press, however, said
that the President, prior to his fireside chat, invited
Congressianal leaders to a conference and expressed his policy
to take a less vigorous policy toward Japan and engaged in
the matter of fighting Germany. On that occasion the
American President was credited with the statement:
"In Japan the opposition of financial circles against the
Army's policy has become influential and this is bound to
develop to a point where the Tripartite Pact will be
virtually nullified."
In Tokyo this piece of news was banned, but Foreign Minister
expresmed the view that the ban was lifted immediately. He
on May 30 issued a public statement stating that the Axis
diplomacy was absolutely immutable and that there is a limit
to the policy of peaceful southern advance.

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.98)
-25
Reioh-Soviet War Opens
On June 13 I went to Western Japan and returned to Tokyo
on June 16. On the following day, that is, June 17, Wans
Ching-wei of the National Government came to Tokyo and was
to stay in Tokyo until June 25. On that account much of
my time was reserved. In the meantime an urgent report
came to my hand from Europe on the opening of a Reich-
Soviet War. It was on the morning of June 22.
Strange to say, the American reply had been received
one day before the astourding news of the Reich-Soviet war
was received. It was harded over to Ambassador Nomura under
date of June 21 and was cabled to Tokyo on June 24. The
Cabinet found it unavoidable to concentrate every nerve on
the development of this serious situation. Upor receipt of
the news, Foreign Minister Matsuoka proceeded to the Imperial
Palace and was received in andience, when he made a report
to the Throre to the following effect:
"Now trat war has been opened between Germary and the
Soviet Union, Japan should cooperate with Germany and attack
the Soviet Union. For this purpose, Janan should rafrain from
taking action for the time being. Sooner or later we must
fight. In the end Japan will have to fight the Soviet
Union, the United States and Britain as our enemies."
Of course, the Foreign Mirister did not consult any
member of the Cabinet. He took the aotion ejngle-handed.
His Majesty, seriously surprised at Matsuoka's talk,
summoned me at once for consultation. At the same time.
through the Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal. Marquis Kido,
His Majesty had the oontents of Matsuoka's talk communi-
cated to me. Matsuoka, by order of His Majesty, called on
me at my home at abeut l0 •'clock at night. What he said
was not much clear but it seemed to me that he told His
Majesty his prediction on the basis of the worst case.
On the following day, that is, June 23 when I was received
ir audience by the Lmperer, I told His Majesty to feel at
ease. I was in the dark as to whether Matsuoka's "strong
views" represented his mere prediction or his insistence.
Apprehensive of complications, I telephoned to the Chief
Secretary of the Cabinet from the Imperial Palace and
o-dered the scheduled liaisen conference for that day to
be c-ncellad on accourt of the Reich-Soviet war.
F.

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.98)
-26 -
The Foreign Minister, in addition to His Majesty, alsc
told similar things te Lerd Keeper Kido and the people in
general, and caused troubles here and there. What I and
Lord Keeper Kido ascertained was that Matsuoka insisted
"First of all, attack the Soviet Unien. War with the
United States should be aveided, but in case of American
participation in the war, Japan will have to fight the
country also."
Although the Foreign Minister held such a view, I in
order to have the attitude of the Government determined
had talks and conferences with the Ministers of the Navy
and of War ard also held liaison conferences on
June 25, 26, 27, 28, 30 and July 1 in succession.
On July 2 an Imperial Conference was held and the deci-
sion was made not to take action against the Soviet
Union for the time being.
On the occasion of the Imperial Conference on July 2
Foreign Minister Matsuoka expressed very positive views.
The Army had concentrated military strength in Manchuria
and was ready for taking up war against the Soviet Union.
It was the chief purpose to check the action of the Army.
As a result, somewhat in the sense of compensation, the
advance into French Indo-China was recognized.
The prevailing situation was such that to check the
action of the Army and refuse the demand of the Army in
entirety was calculated to merely invite a frontal clash
with the Army and not to cortribute to solu ion of the
issues. Moreover, in the hmerican-Japanes egctiatiors
then in progress, there was a full prospeci for compromise
on the question of the advance into French do-China.
In otherwords, we were corfident of fully  reventing
the danger of war.
Matsuoka-Hul. Duel
The United Staces atcache, importance to tlhe attitude
of Japan toward the Reich-Soviet war. The American
President ordered the Secretary of Statr to send a message
directly to  under date of July 4, sta ing:

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.98)
-27 -
"There is a report that Japan will make military action
ageinst the Soviet Union, Can't you give us assuranees that
this report is contrary to the truth?"
The message was communicated to me through Ambassador
Joseph C. Grew on July 6. This is something which was
contrary to usual custem. It gives proof of how the United
States Government disliked Matsuoka. I consulted the
Foreign Minister and had the Foreign Minister give Ambassador
rew on July 8 copy of a message Foreign Minister Matsuoka
handed to Ambassader Smetanin on July 2, as a reply to the
American President's message. The oocasion was seized for
asking the United States if the latter had really the inten-
tion of taking part in the European War. The American side
sent in its reply on July 16, the day on which the Cabinet
resigned en bloc.. The American reply said:
"Invecation of the right of self-defense against Germany
is but natural."
The American reply was ironical in saying, "A country which
forces the United States te remain idle will be regarded as
belonging to the factione of the ceuntries bent on armed
aggression."
Matsuoka then closed the wrangling by expressing 
opposition to unrestricted abuse of the right of self-
defense. Matsuoka showed his unpleasant feeling at the
faot that a direot mesmage was sent to me corfidentially.
Ambassader Grew, on the ether hand, etinced his serioua
disappeintment that his direct talk with me was closed.
The estrangement in the relations between the Foreign
Minister and Ambassador Grew went frem bad t- worse.
Koneye Sends Note to Fo:eigr Ninister
on American-Japanese Relations Adjustment
After the settlement of issues which arose with the commence-
ment of war between Germany and the Soviet Union, no further
delay to the American issues could be tolerated, nor could the
vague attitude of the Foreign Minister himself be let go as
it was. Accordingly, I on July 4 communicated my views to the
Foreign Minister, especially in the form c a letter. The
views expressed herein were to the follow_ng effect:

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.98)
- 28 -
1. Not until the Northern issue has been settled, should
recourse te arms be made toward the South. And efforts to
adjust relations with the United States should be made.
The fact that it would be difficult and virtually impossible
fer this country to have both the United States and the
Soviet Union as enemies at the same time is declared by
the leaders of the Army and Navy. From this standpoint,
the adyance into French Inde-China should be stopped if
such is possible.
2. As a result of the adjustment of relations with the
United States, it may be impossible for us to sive satisfac-
tion te Germany's demand and on that aocount a cold feeling
may temporarily be caused te German-Japanese relatiors,
but such canrot be helped.
3. Adjustment of relatiors with the United States is
necessary from the following standpoints:
a) Increase of national power by acquiring goods and
materials from overseas areas.
b) Prevention of Soviet-American rapproachement.
c) Rapid promotion of peace-making work with Chungking.
4. Frem the foregoing standpeints, the present negetia-
tiens with the United States should be continued. Moreover,
from the broader standpeint of national policy prosecutien.
a quick agreement should be sought.
In conaluslon? I added a passage to the following effect:
"According to Your Excellency's far-sighted view, American-
Japardse compromise may be impessible, but I as a man
shouldering the heavy responsibility of assisting the Throne
cannot but make my best efforts. Especially is it so as
His Majesty is seriously concerned over the matter. At this
juncture we should do our best and seek to have the negotia-
tions materialize even allowing a concession."
Foreign Minister Matsuoka on that night telephoned his
message to me stating that he was inspired by my letter.
On the followinr day he pall a visit to me at my official
residenoe and made the following declaration:

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.98)
-29-
"In prirciple, I am of the same view with the Frime
Minister. Irrespective of public comment, I corsider
myself more enthusiatic than any one else over solution
of the American issues. It is absolutely not true that
I am having a regard for Germany's feelings. But if the
Tripartite Paot is to get a crack on that account, I shal!
be opposed to it. Beginning today, I shall ccnsider the
American issues in all seriousness.
"And if I am found an obetacle, I shall resien at any
time."
Matsuoka made such an importart statement.
Re-Examination of Plan for
American-Japanese Understarding
Thus, the discussion on the plan for American-Japanese
understanding was decided to be taken up. On July i0 and
12 the liaison confererces were held to discuss the June 21
plan of the United States. The special features of the
foregoing plar were:
1. In the item pertaining to the attitude of the two
.governments of Japan and the United States toward the
European War, the portion stating that Japan and the United
States are to cooperate for attaining pasc as proposed hy
Japan was struck off. It wae hir ed at that the United
States would push the drive o overthrow Germany.
2. In the relations pertaining to the tripartite
relations, it was to be il rified that Japux is to contrihute
to prevention of extersion of the European Wr ve to
non-provocation."
Making such a proposal, the United States was seen endea-
voring to obtain a commitment from Japan tnat Japan would
not rise to arms in cas: the United States tock part iin the
war as a result of "provocati n" from Germany.
3. In regard to the China issve, the distinctien
between the Chiang Kai-shek regime anu tne Nanking Gov-n-
ment as in the first plar was nullified but ii. was simply
stated that the United Statrs would urge the Chinese
Government" f peace with Japan. The Konoye Formuia wac
mentioned but of this only ihe portion pertaining

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.98)
二30-
to goodneighbor friendship alone was mentioned. Neither
ecoromic cooperation nor joint efforts for prevertion of
Communism was mentioned. It was seen that the United
States, apprehensive of the oriticism of public opinion,
changed the terms to the disadvantage of this country.
4. The conditions of peace between Japan and China,
which the Japanese side once erazed, were restored as an
annex, and it was stated that a satisfactory agreemert of
views should be reached thereon.
5. Whereas Japan proposed an American-Japanese economic
agreement with the "Southwest" Pacific as the area for covering.
the United States revised it as an agreement governing the
entire Pacific area.
Moreover, this plan was accompanied by an oral state-
ment. The statement said that the United States was ardently
hoping for the materialization of the American-Japanese
understanding, and the United States desired to heve it
corfirmed more definitely that the Japanese Government
was hoping for its materialization. Thus, the oral state-
ment endeavored to sound the real inter tions of Japan.
In one passage it was stated:
"Among the leaders of Japan who are in the influertial
positions of the Japanese Government we find a man who has
made an irrevocable commitment regarding the support of
Totalitarian Germany and its policy of conguest."
The American statement further stated that this fact was
ascertained by information the American Gover:ment obtained,
and if this is the case, the understanding cf the two
cjuntries now under consideration would prcve "illusory"
after all. This passage hinted at the criticism of Matsuoka.
Suspicion was also expressed regarding the stationing of
Japanese troops in China.
Arrangemente were made to have this June 21 plan discussed
at the liaison conference ef July 10.
My pains were almost entirely neglected, and Foreign blinister
Matsuoka became more uncompromising. His views became distinct
that he was inclined to be opposed to American-Japanese
negotiations. On the.occasion of the liaison conference of

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.98)
-31-
uly 10 he demnded the presence of Dr. Yoshie' Saito.
adviser to the Foreign Office ana one of his henchmen, and
Matsuoka and. Sa:to expressed virtually wholesale oprosition to
the American-Japanese negctiaticns. The purpose of their views
was made known to those present by means of printed matter
previously prepared for the occasior. The views exrress..
in short, said that the proposal of the United Statet was
inspired by a wicked motive of either corquering Jaran or
throwing Japan into utter confusion. Especially. the orai
statement attached to the American plar shouid be reiurned
to the United States at once. And the American-Japanene
negotintions should be disrupted. Only the method and time.
romained as the issue, they asserted.
Fighting Services Even
Angered by Matsuoka
Seriously concerned over such a strorg attitude of the
Foreign Minister, I secretly held a conference with the three
Ministers of Home Affairs, War and Navy on the same night.
On the occasion of the liaison conference which was hel. cn
July 12, the oint views of the Army and Navy were expressed.
The views expressed were of a differert purpose in contrast
to those of Mr. Maisuoka, and proposed:
1. The attitude of Japan toward the European War shal! be
determined by treaty obligations and self-de ense.
2. As regards the China issue, the Unit d States is to
advise on truce and peace c the basis of tne Three Principls
of Prince Konoye but the United States is n to intervene
in the matter of peace conditions.
3. In case of need in the Pacific, the riuci:e reservee
the exercise of armed power,
These three pcints, the Ay an. Navy said, should e
clarified for the future, bu: as for the rert, no cujections
were necessary tor the American Jan. They adoed that even
if rupture was to ceme, it should be nostrored ur il after
Japan's advance inio French Iudo-Crina.

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.99)
-32-
After all, Foreign Minister Matsuoka agreed to the
preparation of our counter-plan on the basis of the views of
the Army and Navy. And following the end of the parley on
July 12 discussion was made among Director Muto of the
Military Affairs Bureau of the War Office, Director Oka of
the Nawal Affairs Bureau of the Navy, Director Terasaki of
the American Bureau of the Foreign Office, Chief Secretary
Tomita of the Cabinet and Advimer Saito of the Foreign
Office, and the so-called final plan was drafted.
The only question that remained to be settled was to obtain
the consent of the Foreign Minister for the draft plan.
In spite of urgently repeated requests from the Army and Navy,
Matsuoka refused to see the plan on the pretext of illness.
But in the meantime, it was found Matsuoka saw the German
Ambassador and others, and theroby caused a merious indigna-
tion to the Army and Navy side:. On July 14 the explanation
of Adviser Saito was listened to, and the final plan with the
revision views of the Foreign Minister interwoven was completed.
The time it took was only a matter or one or two days, but
:he atmosphere prevailing in Government circles was of a very
threatening character, and the political situation became very
tense.
The counter-proposal plan as drafted by th Japanese side
jue to the revision of the Foreign Minister differed from the
June 2l plan of the United States in the following points:
1. The item pertaining to the common efforta of Japan
and the United States for an early conclusion of the European
War was restored with the co dition attached "when a prope:
time comes." so that this macter might be ac e table. to the
American side.
2. The portion conoerning the Tripartite Pact relations
was revised, "in case of extension of the European Wer, the
Japanese Government will determine its attitude oniy by the
consideration of its treaty cbjigations and of the de.cnse
the safety and welfare of its own country."
3. In the item pertairing to the China issue the Konoye
Prineiples were lauded, and the name of "the Nanking Govern
mert" to which the United States was averse, was avoided.
Ti was clearly stated that the 'nited States was to advise the
Chian regime on peace.

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.99)
-33 -
4. The terms of Sino-Japanese peace was again erased.
5. On the ground that American-Japanese ecoromio coomeration
was needed especially in the Southwest Pacific, the entire area
of the Pacific was again revised tc "Southwest Pacific."
Foreign Minister
Again Acts Wilfully
Now that this plan was completed after such pains, every one
thought that the plan would be dispatched to the United States
at once. But the Foreign Minister, it proved, was of the
opinion that as the first step, instructions should be cabled
i Washington fer refusing to accept the oral statement.
Branding the oral statement as a rude and improper document,
the instructions maid that unless the American Government
withdrew it, Japan was in no position to further discuss
American-Japanese understanding. I and the Army and Navy
feared that if these instructions alone were sent, it would
only serve to injure the feelinge of the American side and
wight lead to rupture. We strongly insisted that both the
instructions and the Japanese plan should be sent together.
The Foreign Minister ignored the arrangement made between
myself and him through Adviser Saite and had the instructions
regarding the refusal of the oral statement cabled at 1l:30
o'clock on the night'of July 14 (In fact. Secretary of State
Hull was surprised at the marner in which his oral statement
was received and interpreted in Japan and in uly 17 he with-
drew it for the purpose of dispelling misunderstanding).
On the following day, July 15. the Foreign Minister ordered
Director Sakamote of the European-Asiatic Affairs Bureau of the
Foreign Office to confidentially show the final plan of Japan
to the German side, a plan which had not been ommunicated
to the United States as yet.
Shift of Foreign Minister
Abandoned
Now that things have come to such a pass, not only I but
•ther Cabinet Ministers came to entertain the feeling that
no longer it was pessible te dispese of an important
diplomatic issue under the provailing condition. In the
course of the Cabinet meeting on July 15 at which the Foreign
Minister was absent, I discussed the situation with the Home,
War and Navy Ministers. The War Minister said:

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.99)
-34-
"It would cause bad effects to dismiss the Foreign Minister;
and we have continued our endeavors to cooperate with him
but now that things have come to such a pass, it is no longe:
possible. We shall have to .either dismiss the Foreign
Minister or resign en bloc."
On this point the four Ministers agreed. If the Foreign
Minister alone was to be dismissed, merious ripples might be
.caused from the standpoint that the Foreign Minister strongly
said: "The oral statement of the United States fs an attempt
to force the reorganization of the Japanese Cabinet," The view
was then'put forward that aside from the question of the
Foreign Minister or the American issue, the general resignation
should be made from the standpoint of strengthening the war
structure. The meeting adjourned with the decision that the
matter should be discussed again on the following day.
I went to the Hayama Detached Palace at 2 o'clock in the
afterpoon and reported to the Throne on the matter. His Majesty
put an inquiry to me, saying: "Isn't it possible to'let go
Matsuoka alone?" I replied that I should make the Best of the
situation after pondering over the issue, but that under the
present cordition further existenoe of the Cabinet was impo-
ssible. Then, I met the Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal, and
stated to him the r-asons for which we had to resign en bloc.
I then said, "Hcme Minister Hiranuma should be the next Premier."
The Lord Keeper said neither yes nor no, but said that I should
hasten to take action.
Cabinet Resigns
en Bloc
In accordance with the arrangements made on the previous
day, the Premier, Home Minister, War Minister: Navy Minister
and the President of the Planning Board on July 16 met at the
detached house at Mejiro at noon confidentially and as a result
of a conference, decided to resign en bloc. After proper
arrangements made through the Chief Secretary of the Cabinet,
I suddenly called an extraordinary session of the Cabinet and
collected the resignation papers oi the Cabinet Ministers for
submission to the Throne. Matsuoka happened to be absent due.to
illness and the Chief Secretary of the Cabinet went to his home
and got Matsuoka's resignation paper. The news of the decision
in favor of general resignation seemed to be a distinct surprise
to Matsuoka and the latter showed an air of, serious. dissatis-
faction. But he could not resist the general decision and

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.99)
-35
he entrusted his seal-impression to the Chief Secretary.
I went to Mayama again at 8:50 o'clock in the evening and
submitted the resignation of the Cabiet. Returning to Tokyo
at 1l o'olook, I made a report to the Cabinet Ministers and
thus the life of the second Konoye Cabinet ended.
Imperial Order for
Reorganization of Cabinet
At 5:10 o'olock on the afternoon of July 17 I was commanded
by His Majesty to the Imperial Palace and received the
Imperial order to form another Cabinet. I completed the
organization of the Cabinet by 5:30 o'clock on the afternoon
of July 18 and premented the list of Cabinet Ministers to
the Throne at 7 •'clock. At 8:50 o'clock we were installed.
Thus, the third Konoye Cabinet was formed and at 9:45 o'clock
the first Cabinet mmeting was held. The special charaoteristic
of the new Cabinet wes the inclusion of Admiral Teijiro Toyoda
as Foreign Minister.
I recommended Admiral Toyoda for the foreign portfolio
because of my ardent desire to have the American-Japanese
negotiations materialize in some way. Admiral Toyoda had served
as Vice-Minister of the Navy and not only was he versed in
affairs of the Navy but mere recently he served as Ministef
of Commerce and Industry and handled various issues pertaining
to goods and materials. He was one of those who supported the
view that an American-Japanese confliot should be avoided as much
as ciroumstances permitted.
Such a clear significance of the political change was not
clear to the Japanese Ambassador Admiral Kichisaburo Nomura at
Washington. Because the Ambassador and his staff failed to 
understand the significance f the Cabinet change, nothing was
done for the matter of communicating the significance of the
Cabinet change to the American side. The organization of the
new Cabinet, the Tokyo Government hoped, would give the United
States favorable impressions and the negotiations would be speeded
up with the vague atmosphere lifted. but the fact that was prcred
was a distinct disappointment and regret. In spite of the fact
that the Japanese counter-proposal plan against the June 21

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.98)
36
plan ef the United States was prepared with much labor and
pains,it was not shown to the American side though
instructions to this effect were cabled on July 15s
The failure to submit the plan to the American side wae
due to twe reasons. One was due to the Cabinet change and
the other was the fear that the Japanese plan wauld prove
unacceptable to the United States. The non-submission of
the Jplan became clear when we read the telegram dated
July 22 frem Ambassador Nomura. Not only that, Ambassador
Nemura en July 23 displayed his ignorance by requesting
instructions, stating, "American policy of new cabinet
desired to be showm in haste."
Things Go Against My Will
As is Been in the feregeing, the Japaneme Cabinet's
enthusiasm in handling the U.S.-Japar negotiations was not
conveyed te the American side at all, while the time for the
Japandse advance inte French Indo-China, as decided in the
Cabinet mmeting some time before, approached. As military
movements in the South Pacific became active, the American
Government's watch and suspicion grew too glaring to conceal.
And as reported by Ambassador Nomura's telegram neaching
Tokye on July 24, the opinion had gained ground in the
United States that Japan gave the explanation to the Axis
Powers that the task of adjusting American-Japanese relatiuns
was a soheme to be played until 'the completion of the
preparations for her advanoe into the Southern areas.
In Japan, on the other hand, words "the encirclement line
against Japan" came to be used frequently. The press, on
the whole, carried articles of anti-America views admittedly
contrary to the will of the Cabiret.
On July 2l, Undersecretary of State Welies, in the place
of Secretary of State Hull who was ill then, Bent for Mirister
Kaname Wakasugi as a representative of Ambassador Nomura
and warned the latter in the following words:
"According to information, inere are indications that Japan
intends te capture French Indo-China. Should such be the case.
the negotiations pushed to date would become of no use."

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.97)
- 37
In his conference with Ambassador Nomura on July 23
Undersecretary of State Welles filed an important
representation as follows:
"Heretofore, the United States has been engaged in
negotiations with Japan with the greatest possible
perseverance, but now there is lost all the foundation.
for the negotiations,"
On the following day, Ambasmador Nomura had a '
talk with President Roosevelt informally, when the latter
pointed out the Indo-China issue to be an important
question and 'made the following important proposal:
1. On the condition that the Japanese troops withfraw from
Frerch Indo-China (if Japanese troops have already moved into
French Indc-China)
j
2. Joint guarantee for the neuiralization of Indo-China
by Japan, U.S.A., Britain, Holland and Chia.
3. Guarantee of acquisition of materials from French
Indo-China.
Thus, on July 26 the Tokyo Government's arnounoement 
the Japaese advance into Indo-China and the U.S. Government's
announcement of the Japanese assets freezin? decree came.
the one following the other. In view of the aggravation
of the situation, I sent for the Chief of the Metropolitan
Police Board on the same night and ordered him to have a
guard maintaired arour the American Embassy.
America Fails to Agree
to O:ir Re-Propositio..
For 10 days from the time before or afte: the political
change to the advance of Japanese troops into French Indo-
China, there were seen many points to be desired in bringing
Washington and Tokyo to a mutui). good urderstanding.
And things gave the impression that the U.S.-Japan peace
talk had ended in a complete failure. But the Cabinet.
didn't give up its hope to the last, but made efforts in
have the negotiations resumed, taking advantage of
President Roosevelt's proposal relating to French Indo-Ch.ne

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.99)
-38
as was made on July 24. Extending this proposal,
Undersecretary of State Welles on July 31 handed over the
Japanese side an additional proposal advocating the
neutralization of Thailand.
In Tokyo there were held liaison conferences
successively on July 29 and 30 and on August 2 and 4.
I talked with Navy and Finance ministers on July 31 and with
the War Minister on August 1. And also conversing with
Mitsuru Toyama, etc., I also sought an understanding with
the rightwing elements. By such means, I put forth all
conceivable efforts to cope with the situation.
Thus, at a liaison conference on August 4. it ms decided
to approach the United States with a proposal. The same
proposal was in the form of a reply to President Roosevelt's
proposal, but it was designed to serve as a key for resuming
the U.S.-Japan negotiations then at a deadlock. Its principle
was:
1. Japan has no intention of advancing her troops beyond
French Indo-Chinc, and she shall withdraw her troops from
Indo-Chira after the settlement of the China Affair.
2. The neurality of the Thilippines shall be guararteed.
3. The United States shall disarm herself in the Southwest
Pacific areas.
4. The United States shall help Japar obtain resources
in Dutch East Indies.
5. The United States shall render its good offices for
direct negotiations to be held between th: Republic of China
and Japan, and additionally she shall recognize Japan's special
position in French Indo-China even after the latter's with-
drawal of troops from Indo-China.
The foregoing instructions were dispatched to Ambassador
Nomura on August 5, and the Ambassador handed the instructions
to the Secretary of State Hull on August 6. However, Hull
failed to show any interest in our prcposal, but emphasized
that there was no room for the resumption of the ".S,-Jap-n
negotiations, unleas Je. an gave up her sabre-rattling policy.

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.96)
-39-
Kmbassador Nemira reported to the effeot that according to
indicetions, the United States was prepared to cope with
any eventiality. Two doyn after. or on August 8, Mr. Hull
handed America's reply tc Nemura. In this reply, however.
the American side faxled to coc  the contente of the
Japanese proposal, but pointed cut "hat the Japanese
propoeal, as a reply to the Prest dert  proposal, was not
to the point. Huil was Fo indifrerent ar to repeat the Presi-
dent's propceal with only one o two werds.
Deterxines to See President
Rakcing my brains for reno ing the deadlook caused to
American-Jananese relations, I rinnlly determined to see the
American President. On the evening of Augus! 4 I for the
first time revealed my intertion to the War and Navy Ministere.
I talked in this way:
. 1. The United States even snys deleted), and I consider it
our duty to do the bes  un er the circumstances. Up to date,
there have been various mit undergtand ng behind the Auerican-
Japanese negctiations conlucted  far, and there ae indiva-
tions that the true inientions of one perty have not been
thoroughly communicated to the ther and vice verea. c
Should the presen' stet? of affairs be rllowe! to follow it
own course unchecked and snould we plunge into war. we as
statesmen should have no apoiogy to offer n't only io His
Majesty who is so much concerned over world peace, esveciaily
the American-Japarese relations but also the people in general.
If we do our best and yet war begins, we cennot help it.
In that case, we can have a strong determinatlon, and the
determinetion of the pesphe wil' ale be ilrin. Prior to the
outbreak of the E ropean lar. Chanberlafn weni to the
Continent several times to see itler, end although the rosult
was that he was deceived by Hitier, 1 consider his visits had
the effect of inducing the british people to make a datermi-
nation.
2. The present is really a touch-and-go crisis. Negotia-
tiens throush Ambass dor Nomura will be calculated to close time.
Rather shoulc the rine Minister see the Prcsident and acquaint
him with the trus ineentions f the mpire boldly and daringly.
2

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
In that case if the President doesn't understand us, the
Prime Minister, of course, will desert the place of the
meeting. If the direot talk fails, the people will under-
stand that an American-Japanese war was inevitable and they
will be induced to have a firmer determinatiop than otherwise.
To the outside world it will be shown that Japan was net bent
én aggression but displayed sincerity for the maintenance of
peace of the Pacific to such en extent. This will probably
have the effect of relieving to a certain extent the
aggravation of the public opinions of the world.
3. The President's visit to Honolulu is not necessarily
considered impossible of realization, inasmuch as this was
mentioned in the original plan for understanding. moreover,
it is not necessary that hope should be abandoned from the
outset. The United States maintains its stard on the basis
of the Nine-Power Pact and the views of the two parties do
not agree. but the United States says, "The United States is
prepared to be consulted at any time regardirg revislon of the
Nine-Power Pact by a reasonable and legitimate method."
4. This talk needs haste, because the prospects of the
Reich- oviet War are that the war will reach its peak some
time in September. If the war gets deadlocked as a section of
the people predicts, the future of Germany will permit no
optimism.In such a case the United States will come tc
maintain a stronger attitude and will not trouble itself with
a talk frem Japan, Even if the Reich-Poviet War develeps to the
advantage cf Germany, it wi!] not bring about any big disadvan-
tage to Japan. There may be a fear that German feeling
toward Japan may coel down but Germany's world hegemony
or complete German victory sver Britain and the "ited
States is unthinkable, and there will ta ways to adjust
German-Japanese relations.
Accordingly, there is no need ?or us to be concerned toc
much about a developmen: of he Reich-Soviet War c the
advantage of Germany. Father nould we give full corsidera-
tion to the case of a disaivantage to Jermary and reach su ic
understanding with the United Stat s at +his time.

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.99)
-41-
5. However, this does not mean that any .arrangement
with the United States would be acceptable, Of courme,
we should not ourry favor with the United States or yield
to it in our haste to have some understanding or arrangement.
In short, it is to do all what is available for us.
It is necessary both domestically and externally to dc
the best under the ciroumstances.
Navy Supports and Aimy
Supports Conditionally
The War and Navy Ministers listened to me with looks which
betrayed their tension, They could not reply on the spot,
but the naval side expressed its wholesale approval of my
proposal within the day, adding that the Navy was looking
ferward to th cenference with anticipations. The reply of
the War Minister came in the form of a document. It said:
"The Prime Minister's interview with the American
President is calculated to inevitably weaken the present
diplomacy of the Empire based on the Tripartite Alliance
and is considered likely to cause considerable ripples
demestically. Accordingly, such an interview as is proposed
is considered improper. However, under the present pressing
situation the Prime Minister personally proposes to
endeavor for removing the deadlock, and to this determinntion
of his the Army pays high respects. And if the Prime
Minister means toi attenr-the conference !; aihering to the
fundamental policy of the Jap.ese revised plan and deser
the. meeting place with the determination to wage war on the
United States in case the American Presiden! fails to
understand the real intentions of this cc. try and means to
carry out the present policy, the Army will have no
objectione te the trime Minister's direct talk with the
President."
The Army's document was accompanied by the following annex:
"If the forthcoming meeting is to be arranged between
our Prime Minister and Secretary of State Hull or any other
official excepting President Roosevelt, the Army will be
opposed to it. It is necessary that in case of failure
of the conference the Prime Minister should not resign on the
ground of the failure s the conference but rather shou'd
stiffen his determination and take the initiative for an
American--Japan war."

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.99)
-42-
The War Minister also was of the opinion that there
was a greater possibility of failure than of success
in regard to the conference. After all was said and
done, the conclusion was reached that the matter shouil
be expedited.
On the morning of August 6, immediately after the liaisan
confcrence, I was received in audience by the Emperor,
when I revealed my intention and determination to the
Throne, On the afternoon of the following day I was
summoned to the Imperial Palace and was urged by His
Majesty to make haste for my proposal, maying:
"We have heard from the navy side concerning the total
prohibition of American oil exports to Japan, and your
interview with the'President should be done without any
loss of time."
Instructions in this regard were sent to Ambassador
Nomura on the afternoon of August 7. The initial impre-
ssion given the American side was disappointing exceedingly.
The President happened to be absent in Washington for his
interview with Premier Churchill. Ambassador Nomura o..
August 8 met Secretary of State Hull and communicated the
proposal to him, Hull said that so long as there was no
change in Japan s policy, he had no confi, nce of
introducing the latest proposal from Japan to the President.
Ambassador Nomure said nothing further, and cabled that
Ambassador Grew should be approached in Toi.vo.
In the United States a joint statement mas issued by
comments thereon printed by some of the Toryc press were
cabled. Moreover, the attempt made on the life of State
Minister Hiranuma on "ugust 14 was reported in a sensational
way. On August 13 Secretary of State Hull harded Ambassador
Nomura a protest mentioning items of alleged violatione of
American rights and interaets in China, true to the tradi-
tion of American diplomacy that what should be done should
be done irrespective of occasion. The "merican Cabinet

=== Page 466 === (confidence 0.98)
-43-
Ministers with whom Ambassador "emura dealt were full ef
the pessimistic feeling that the United States should
not coneent to having a leaders' meeting the success ef
which is uncertain. Sensing the pressing situation,
Ambassador Nemura prier to the return of the President to
the, Whit.e House follewing his mid-eceanio talk met
Secretary of State Hull again and endeavered te exphain
the true intentiens of eur side. Hull as usual simply
repeated his opposition te "military demination". As regards
the proposed interview between the Prime Minister and the
President, he somewhat softened his attitude and replied:
"If yom have full cenfidence ef success, I shall intre-
duce the plan te the White House."
President in Geod Humor
Suddenly en "ugust.17 President Reosevelt immediately
after his mid-ocean talk invited Ambassador Nomura in spite
ef it having been Sunday, and made twe representatione to him.
One was a warning against a further armed advance of Japan.
The other was a reply te the proposal for the twe countries'
leaders to meet. According to his talk, the American
Government appreciated the idea of myself and of the Japanese
Government. and expressed approval of the idsa in principle,
saying:
"If the Japanese Government halts its expansion activities
and has the hope of coming forward for a program of peace
cencerning the Pacific as well as a program end principles
which the United States has pledged and promieed, the United
States will be prepared to re-open the unofficia. negotiations
which were interrupted in July. Moreover, the United
States will endeavor to exchange views with "apan gladly
and alse fix the time and place for such a meeting."
At the end the American President required that a clear-
cut statement be submitted fer that purpose.
By the program of peace was meant economic oppertunity and
the application of the principle of equalicy in treatment
all over the Pacific area, the voluntary and peaceful
cooperation of the peoples inhabiting the area, assistance

=== Page 467 === (confidence 0.98)
…44-
to the people subjected to menace and removal of military
or political cmntrol or monopolistie or priority economic
righto.
Throughout the Reosevelt-Nemura talk, the American
President was in geed humor, and even said: "As the meeting
place, Hawaii is geegraphically improper and Juar (spelling?)
in Akaska will be fitting. What de yèu say to having
the talk in mid-Ootober?"
It was alse learned from one of the Cabinet Ministers
whom Ambassador Nomura met (Walker?) that President Roosevelt
took the issue from the routine officials's hards and
intended to seek solution from the broader standpoint.
Ambassador Nemura cabled to Tokyo stating that the
present opportunity should not be missed and that daring
responses should be made.. As a reference he cabled to us
his own private plan as a reply to President Roesevelt.
On August 18 Foreign Minister Toyoda invited Ambassador
Grew and dwelt on the reasons for which the interview
between the two Leaders was necessary and requested him to
exert his influence for realization of the project.
Hull's Attitude Pessimistic
Our reply te the American represenaation as handed over
to Ambassador Nomura by President Reoseveit on August 17
was determined at the liaison conference of August 26.
Together wdth the reply, the conference ale: adopted a
message I prepared for presentation to the American President.
This message of mine stated in a clear-cut manner my real
intentions for having proposed the conference with President
Roosevelt for the purpose of discussing American-Japanese
affairs from the broader standpoin: without adhering to
routine discussions and thus copin; with the rapidly-changing
situation.

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.98)
-45 -
These two documents were handed over to the American
President, after praising my message as "splendid," said,
"I should like to have a talk with Prince Kenoye for
about three days." Although he did not indicate the period
of the meeting, he showed a great interest in the proposal.
Perhaps this was the time when Japan and the United
States were the nearest to rapprechomont.
In contrast to the President whe was very muoh interested
in the propesed conference, Secretary of State Hull was
extremely cautious. The Seoretary. whe was with the
President when the Ambassador called, on the same night
invited the Ambassador to a talk and made it clear that his
views fundamentally differed,from the idea of the Japanese.
side, only repeating the American insistence, "The leaders'
meeting should be made in the form of ratification of a talk
previously materialized."
Ambassador Nomura's report on the optimistic atmosphere
in which the President received our documents and en the
pessimistic Hull were received here on August 29 and 30.
The report gave us a very important suggestion regarding
the manner of removing the deadlock. The observatione of the
Japanese Government were divided into the optimistic and
pessimistic. However, in order to cope with the conference
proposed, both the Army and Navy began chcciing their
representatives fer the parley. The Foreign Office was mere
or less optimistic having anticipations in the "political"
solutien of the President to the neglect of the tradi-
tional reasoning diplomacy of the State Department. Foreign
Minister Tayoda at the liaison conference of August 30
was extremely inolined toward optimism.
President's Attitude Changes
On September 3 President Roosevelt confidentially invited
Ambassador Nomura and handed him a message in reply to the
"Konoye Message." Although couched in courteous language,
the President s reply evaded a clear-cut expression in
regard to his agreerent to the proposed ccnference.

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.98)
一.46-
Moreover, it stated ehe meessity for obtaining Japan's
agreement regarding the fundamental prineiples as the
pre-condition. Here it was made clear that the wiews
of the State Department have some to cortrel the
situation.
Separate Proposal
to U.S.A.
On the day the Nomura-Roosevelt talk tock plaee em
September 3, in Tokyo a separate proposal to the Unite
States was being discussed at the liaison conference.
The plan was drafted by the Fureign Office. It was
a simplification of the plan for understanding which
was discussed between Nomura dnd Hull under a different
premise. The plan proposed:
1. Japan shall not advance troops beyond Prench Indo-China.
2. Japan's interpretation of the Tripartite Pact shall
be done autonomously.
3. Japan shall withdraw troops from China in accordance
with the terms of the Sino-Japanese Pact.
4. The economic activities of the United States in
China shall not be restricted so long as they are conduoted
on a fair basis.
5. The principie of equal treatment in commeroe and
trade in the Southwest Pacific shall be established.
6. Steps shall be taken for restoration of legitimate
trade and commercial relations between Japan and the United
States.
The Foreign Office entertained a great deal of hope in
this plan. It was communicated to Ambassador Grew from
Foreign Minister Toyoda and to Secretary of State Hull
from Ambassador Nomura. The plan did not represent any new
proposal, but the aim was to deal with concrete issues which
were considered urgent at that time and make them the basis ,
of the leaders' talks. Contrary to the unusual anticipation

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.98)
-47 -
of the Foreign Office, the September 4 plas mimply invitee
unnecessary misunderstanding and chaos.
The United States was not unreasonable im entertalatns
the misunderstanding, for the June 21 plam whioh the
United States submitted to Japan had remained unanswerede
though our reply was sent to Washington on July 15.
Due to the political change and ot her reasons Ambassader
Numura failed to deliver our reply to the plan of the.
United States which was offered as the final one. So far
as the United States was concerned, the country received the
September 4 plan without receiving a reply to its June 21
plan. This, I consider, was the major reason for which
the American misunderstanding was responsible.
While such complex and un-ending diplomatic negotiations
were being conduoted between Tokyo and Washington, a serious
issue had arisen in our Government circles in Tokyo.
The issue was: To what extent should we continue the
negotiations with the United States? Or should we give
it up? Not only that. should we give up hope and fight the
United States?
Beoret Negotiations
Leak Out
The American-Japanese talks were made known only to the
Government leaders. Among the leaders'only Foreign Minister
Matsuoka was opposed to the talks. And out of fear for
opposition from the lower strata, the talks were kept
confidential to the others, but they began leading out.
With Matsuoka's confidential shewing of the talks to the
Italo-German side as the turning point, the public came to
have a vague outline of the talks. Opposition arose from
the lower strata and also from the Army. At that time the
Japanese people were shocked to learn of the commencement
of the Reich-Soviet War. The Government leaders controlled
the views in favor of immediate cpening of war against the
Soviet Union. but had to adopt the Cabinet decision in
favor of an advance into French Indo-China as a sort of
compeasation.

=== Page 471 === (confidence 0.97)
- 48 ..
The advance of troops into French Indo-China hed
immediate and strong effects. The United States carrico
out the seyerance of economic relaticns with Japan and
announced that its traditional policy alone was a peaceful
policy. As the time approached the end of August, the
"national policy" of plunging into war with Britain and the
United States was being discussed/liaison and ether
conferences.
at
Basic Principles of Prosecution
of National Policy Determined
On September 6 an Imperial Conference was held at which
the "basic principles of the prosecution of the national
policy of the Empire" were determined as follows:
In view of the present pressing situation, the offensives
of the United States, Britain, the Netherlands, etc. toward
Japan and the flexibility of the national power of the
Empire, the enforcement c: measures regarding the
Southern reglons shall be made as follows:
1. The Empire shall complete war preparations with the
last decace of October as the aim under the determination
not to mind war with the United States (Britain and the
Netherlands) for the purpuse of g:aranteeing its self oxistence
and self-de:ense.
2. In parallel to it, the Eapire h7 have  ecourse to
diplematic weane in dealing vith :he United States and
Britain and endeavor tr have iis demands attained.
3. In case there is faund ne way si: frr attainmer
of our demands even in the first derade  Outober, the
Empire shall at once determine  pen vir with the United
States (Britain and the "other ands), Po!: cies ther than
the Southern policy shal! rcain : nchanged and endeavors
shall be made  preven American-Saviei u-derstanding or
joint front from being accompi:shed.
Pis Majusty Insists
on Peace
One day prior to the Imperial Con  :ence, I proceeded
to the Impe rial Pala(r ani subaitted a rep it to the Thrne
-garding tie basic pi. iple: of natiunei policy. His
Majesty ad

=== Page 472 === (confidence 0.99)
-49 -
"Seeing this report, I am impressed by the fact that
the repert puts first importance on war preparations and
diplomacy is calculated to let one think that diplomacy
is subservient to armed pewer. About these points I shall
question the two Chiefs of the General Staff and Naval
General Staff at tomorrow's meetirg."
I replied to His Majesty:
"The erder of A and B does not mean any degree of
importance. The Government intends to corduct diplomatic
negotiations to the last, and in case the negotiatlons do
not materialize, we shali have to make war preparations."
I further said:
"It may be improper for Your Majesty to make such es
question at tomorrow's Impe ial Conference. If Your Magesty
desires to put a question to members of the Supreme Commane.
Your Majesty should summon them at once."
His Majesty ordered that the Chiefs of the Army General
Staff and the Naval General Staff be summoned at once, His
Majesty alse ordered me to be present. When General Gen.
Sugiyama, Chief of the Army General Staff, ind Admiral Osami
Nagano, Chief of the Naval General Staff, came, His Majesty
asked Sugiyama:
"In case of an American-Japanese corflict, how many monthe
dees the Army consider with confidence it ill take to dis-
pose of the matter?"
Sugiyama replied:
"So far as the Southern area was concerned, we intend to
settle things during the first three months."
His Majesty further asked Sugiyama:
"At the time of the outbreak of the China Affair you were
the War Minister, and in that capacity I remember you said
'The Affair will be settled within a month or so.'
And yet the Affair has lasted four years and yet has not
been settled."

=== Page 473 === (confidence 0.99)
-50
Bugiyama, awe-struck, explained that China had a large
area in the hinterland and offered various explanations
at length. His Majesty then addressed to Sugiyama thus:
"If you say China has a wide hinterland, the Pacific Ocean
is larger, isn't it? With what confidence do you say it will
take three months?"
Sugiyama lowered his head and failed to reply. Here
Chief Nagano of the Naval General Staff came to Sugiyama's
rescue:
"Representing the High Command, I shall offer an
explanation from the broader standpoint. If American-
Japanese relations are likened to a patient, the patient now
stands at the cross-roads of whether he should undergo an
operation or not. If left alone, the patient may sirk into
gradual weakening, but if he undergoes an operation, though
there will be a sericus danger, there may be hope for
recovory. The High Command hopes that solution will be
attained through diplomatic means hut in case of failure
an operation will have to be conducted. In this sense,
we approve the proposal."
His Majesty was emphatic in asking:
on diplomacy. Is that true?"
Both Chiefs of the High Command replied His Majesty
was right.
On the occasion of the z Imperial Confererce which
was held at 10 e'clock on the morning of the following day.
that is, September 6, Baron Dr. Yoshimichi Hara, President
of the Privy Council, asked:
"I am impressed by the fact that in the proposed plan
importance is placed on war rather than on diplomacy.
I wish to have a clarification of the views of the Government
and the High Command." The Navy Minister representing
the Government spoke but no' membere of the High Command spoke.

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.97)
-51 -
His Majesty, suddenly addressed the gathering thus:
"The question now put by President Hara of the rivy Coune1?
is quite reasonable, and I exceedingly regret that no reply
whatever has been made by the High Command."
Here His Majesty took out from His pocket a piece of paper.
on which the following poen composed by the Emperor Meiji
(the ruler's grand?ather) was writter:
"Though I consider the surrounding seas as my brothers, why
is it that the waves nrouid rise so high?"
Reading this poer aloud. Hio Majesty said: :
"I always read and appreciate this pocm and m endeavoring
to live up to the spirit of the Great Emperor who was sc fand
of peace."
What a consistent ogic! For some minutes no one dared to
speak. Then, Chief Nagano of the Naval General Staff rcee and
spoke:
"T am filled with awe at the cenrure Your Majesty has given
to the High Command. I thoghe whan the Navy minister replied.
he represented t. th the Governmen: and the High Comaand. The
High Cormand, as the Navy Minister plied: places major
importance on diplonn negotiations and would appeal to arms
only in an unavaidaile case."
Thus, the Imperial Conference adjourned amid an unprecedentedly
tense atmosphere.
Secret Talk
With Grew
The American-Japarese negotiations for understanding at one
time appeared to be progressing fast but at another they seemed
to be blocked. The proposal for the meeting of the leaders
interested the Americar President and ye: it failed to materialize
just before its materializa icn. This state of afiairs. I
thought, was due to the faijure of the real intentions of the
Japanese side to be made known to the American side through
the cabled instructions to Anjasrador Nomura alcne. Ther, I
determined to see Ambassador Grew personaily and see what i could
accomplish thereby.
On Septemoer 6, the day on which the foregoing "basic
principles or natioral polity" were determined, I with the
understanding ui the War, Navy and Foreigr Ministers conferred
with the American Ambassader in utier secrecy. With Couneellor
Douman as the irterpreter, we dined together end 1alked. I
s.Iessed the point that my Cabiret vith he Army and Navy united
was hoping for the success ot the negociationg and thet there
would come no better -prortunity hereafter. Then, I made a
very significant declaration:

=== Page 475 === (confidence 0.94)
-52 -
"If we miss the present chance, the chance will not come
again during our lifetime."
-I also revealed that the Army, Navy and Foreign Office
had virtually cwpleted the selection of their delegations.
and dweit on the necescity  yecii seeing the President
as seon as cirouinsta. ces gervitted and exchanging views with.
him on the fundamental Jsaces. Amouscador 'rew ascertained
my viewo in regard s he four basic principles of Secretary
of State Hull and I said:
"Basicall.y, they are all right, but in the oase of aotual
operation various issucs will arise and for the sclution of
such ictues thomselves our interview with the President
becomes necessary."
Foll wing a heart-to-heart talk lasting ar hour and a half.
Ambaseado Grew promised to report the contents of the day's
interview as his direct message to the President. The American
Ambasredor was strongly impressed by the import of my message
and remarted:
"This report will become the most important cable I ever
file with my home government since I began my diplomat's career."
Question f Stationing Troops
Hard Nut to Crack
Although I made my best endeavors for the success of the
negctiations, the im ortant paiioral policy which was determined
at the Imperial Corference of September 6 gave a time-limit to
the negotiations. Ard the inp ession was strongly felt that
the firai stage came at last.
By that time the diffic l points of the nerotiations were
virtually grasped and ihe intentions of the American Gverrment
were also ganerally fath-med. Baei cal ty, the Urited States
adhered to the "four prinoaples". and corexotely. he country
raised the question of coon ta a uine. the question of
economy and equal opporturc y and the Tripartite Fact.
The Amorican side interyreted l apaw bes no cbjections
to the four pripeple, md  as declaied  the uarican
Ambassador that in prir: iplo"  rey are eo eptable. Thus. no
special fasue appeared t to rtsely o ar'se but utrong
views oopoeiry ever n prineiple did not o ct in the Army
and a sestion of the Foreisr Orfve. h e is ever the
argument that since the Urited States inverpreled the

=== Page 476 === (confidence 0.97)
- 53 -
the representation of Japan of August 28 in the for-going
senre due to Ambasgador Nomura's mis-translation, a
representation Fhould be made for retraction or the Ambassador
should be recalled. If denial was to be made at this time even
for the four besic princirles, he American-Japanese negotiations
would be sure t, be totaly wrecked. I, therefore, gave setious
consideration to the method of treating the issue.
Regarding the econoric principles,capan was already determined
to recognize egual opportunity in China. There was an optimistio
view that since the Unired States must be fully conscious ef
Japan's special. geographical relation to Jhina, little trouble
would be encountered. As for the Tripartite act irme, it
was thcught that alihough any promise cuuld not be documentated.
if I met the President, some agreement would not be impossible
of attainment.
In regard to the matter of stationing troops in China,
the Army one day said that the name or form would pot matter.
but the next day this moderate viow  uld be replaced by one
that the Army's position is abs lutcly immutable. ven within
the Japanese Government the impression vas strong that the
biggest issue lay in this matter of stationing troops.
Because of the serious bearing of the peration of the basic
national policy as determined by the Imperial Confererce of
September 6 on the progress of the American-Japanese negotiations.
the Government leaders continued to undergo special mental pains.
Many days I stopped overnight at the Japanese room cf my
official residence. On September 24 and 25 I continued lengthy
conferences with the War, Navy and Foreign Ministers and the
President of the Planning Board.
From September 27 to Oct ber 1, I rested at Kamakura but in
the meantime I invited Navy Manister Oikawa to a taik and
listened to him regarding  he vicws prevailirg in the Navy. On
October 4 I proceeded to the Imporial Pale e and was received
in audience by His Majenty Laer, 1 ordered rureay chiefs to
desert me and I held a liaison correrence vich the abinet
Ministers and the leadere of the t . wmand. On the evening
of Octo ber 5 I invited  ne ar Minister to ny hore at gikubo
and expressed my determination to continue my negotiations
with the United States to the last.
Late en the night of October 7 the Wer wlinister called cr
me at the Jacanese ro-m o the Official Residei ce, and male
the following strong stand:

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.95)
-54 -
"In regard to the question of stationing troops, the Army
absolutely is unable to accept such a formula as to make total
withdrawal basically and then station troops."
In view of this strong atitude of the Army and also of the
Navy, I had individual talks wi th the Navy Minister and the
Foreign Mirister twice on atober 6 end E and discussed the
matter of staving if the crisin. The Foreign Minister called
on me twice on Outcber l0 and conferred wi sh me in regard to
the continuation of the talks with the United States. Another
liaison conference was opened on Cct:ber 11. In the meantime.
the activivies of the Big Three secretaries of the Cabinet,
especially President Suzuki of the Planning Board, became an
object of attention.
Navy Entrusts Matter of War or Feace
to Prime Minister
On October 12, marking my 50th birthday, in spite of it being
Sunday, I invited the three Minisieis or the War, Navy and
Foreign Affairs and also Prasident Suzuki of the Planning
Board to my private home at Ceiksi and held what was virtually
the last conference on peace or war. Prior to the corfererce.
the following report was made to the Chief Secretary of the
Cabinet from the Director of the Naval Affairs Bureau of the
Navy Office:
"The Navy does rot desire to have the American-Japanese
negotiations disrupted. The Navy desires to avoid war as
much as circumstances permit. But :he Navy canrot say it
openly. At today's confer  nce the Navy Miniorer will propose
'entrusting to the Prime Minister the nai tcr of deciding either
for peare ur war.' Pi nderstand chio coint."
As expected, the Na y Miiister spoke trst at the outset
of the confecence as cut ined in the foregoing ines. He said:
"Now the time has c me  r us to deside enther for war
or poace. We h uie Tike to ent use the me' ter to the Prime
Minister. It reace is ta he maintaincd. reace should be
haintained throughout ir toer vrds, eren by mating a
boncestion to s me exnent. w shonil et the nexotietions
matorialise. li the ner stataons sie to be cortinued for
two ar th ee merths, and then after their ranlhare, i war is
decided. the Navy wilt be troubled. iif var is to be
tes rted s, we sh ald make the decisi en at er e how is
the time for us to decide for ei ther way. lf war is to bo
aveided. we vi sh to have you convinue the negotieti s wi h
the principle tnat the negciintiors shall atiain success.

=== Page 478 === (confidence 0.94)
( - 55 -
In reply to the Navy Minister's statement, I maid
"If decision is to be taker tcday, I decide in favor of
continuation of the negutiations."
The War Minister, then, said:
"That conclusion of the Prime Minister is premature. It
would be serious if we continusd the h peless negetiations
and thus mise the chance. Dres the Foreign Minister have
any onfidence cf sucuess in the negctlation?"
The Foreign Minister replied:
"That depends on the conditiors. The greatest difficulty
now confronting us, I think, is the question of stuciouing
trorps in China. If the Army is averse to uaking tre alightest
concession, the negotiations have no hepe or ey ces:. If the
Army doesn't mind a conceeston on that issue, I can's say
there is absolutciy no hope fur success in the negotiatione."
The War Minister said:
"The question  stationing troops is the very life of
the Army and abeolutely the Army cennot give any concession."
I said:
"If we give up form and take substance, it will be all right.
In cther wordo, if we follow the fern ae insisted en by the
United States, but in u starce attain results similar to
stati ning tec ops, it will be all right. wen't it?"
The War Mini gter would uos consent to this pr posal of
mine. The aonfcrenve la- ed frem 2 to 6 c clcck but adjourned
without reaching a con..n.
War Minister Uryielding
On the follcwing doy O t ber t3, I went to the Imperial
Palace end voporred to His Ma esty the crisical ui buation
conirenting the Caninet.  alko cunferred with the Locd Keeper
of the Privy eal end ar  o cl ck on the mirning  f Octoher
14 I cruled the We Nntscer   fauial rertaence prior
to the Catinet me tare. ard requested him to recons der the
matter or stationing proops.
I nald to h:
"I have , berirus responsibility for tre Shlna Aliair
Aifair has Laatel four years and yet has not been conc..ured

=== Page 479 === (confidence 0.98)
-56 -
as yet. I cannot agree to plunging into a great war
whose future outcome is uncertain. At this juncture we
should yield temporarily to the United States and let the
country have its form of troop withdrawal and stave aff the
danger of an American-Japanese war. I also consider it
necessary on this occasion to bring the China Affair to a
conclusion and thus contribute to the national power of this
country. Development of national fortunes is desirable,
but in order to attain a great expansion, it is often
necessary to yield to others and rear the national power."
The War Minister would not subscribe to my view, insisting:
"If we yield to the United States at this time, the
latter will become more arrogant and more overbearing.
Regarding the question of troop withdrawal, you say the
name shall be abandoned and the substance be taken, but I
cannot agree te this view from the standpoint of maintaining
the morale."
The talk with the War Minister was productive of no
favorable result. And when the Cabinet conference was
opened, the War Minister dwelt on the reasons for which
the American-Japanese Negstiations could no longer be
permitted to be continued, and he did so with an excited
attitude.
Reckless Staking
of All
During the talks I had with the War Minister, the following
conversation teek place:
"Once in a while it is nacessery for one to olose one's
eyes and jump from the stare or the Kiyomizu Temple, (meaning
duing a daring thing. Translator)"
QAo an individual, sucn a thing may come once or twice
in a lifetime. But when consideration is ziver to the 2,600-
year-1d national. polity ano the 100,000,000 people, no such
thing can be done by any one i. a responsinle position."
Thare had been many references to such expreasions as
"staking all or "staking the national fortuncs."
Foreign Minister Matsuoka frequently used such expressions,
but ac for me, every time I hean Euch expressions, I felt
unpleasant. The use of such expressions may be
exhilarating, but when one takes into consideration the
unstained national polity 2,600 years old, one cannot lightly
plunge into a war whose outcome is uncertain. This is entirely
different frem an individual's case. People may call me

=== Page 480 === (confidence 0.98)
-57 -
hemitant or temporising but I cannot undertake f
such a reckless adventure. whatever a roundabout way j.
may be, I have the confidence that the course to be folloved
must be lo0 per cent mafe and that war must be avoided.
Seme of the soldiers say such a thing:
"Japan had no lo0-per cent victory chance in the S:no-
Japanese War or Russo-Japanese War."
In the course of my talk with the War Minister I referred
te the foregoing statement by some soldiers and said:
"I think Ito and Yamagata had a full confidence in undertak-
ing the Russo-Japanese War. If they undertook the war without
any confidence in victory, it is a very outrageous thirg.
Prior to the outbreak of the Russo-Japanese War, Emperor Meiji
could not reach his decision. When Premier Katsura desired
to have the Emperor's decision, Prince Ito stopped hig and
asked. him Wo mildw. wme more day for him to think it over.
The next morning the Emperor eummoned Prince Ito and asked
him if the latter had any confidence of victory. In reply
thereto, the Prince eaid that at Jeast the Russians would not
be able to set a single step into Korea and we shall be able
to keep thd Russian troops beyond the Yalu River at least
for a year. While this stand is being maintained for a year
or so, mediation by a third Power or Powers may be expecter.
Of the third Powers, Britain is our ally and "rance and
Germany are on the Russian side. We car. only depend or. the
United States. About this, if we take action, we are
confident of results. To this effect the Throne vas srised.
The Emperor was relieved of his anxiety and His Majesty haadrd
down the decision in favor of war at the Imperial Confsrerce
which was held the same day. But this time there will be
no third Powers. No one will be in a position to mediate
and we are utterly uncer ain about the future. We must be
very cautious about plunging into sich an uncertain var."
At the time I had the last talk on the mirring of October
14 at my official residence, the War Minister said:
"The views of the Prime Minister, I thirk, are too
pessimistic. Because you kncw too well our vulneratility. fer'
Isn't It true that the United States has its own ulnerability?"
The talk of that day resulted in what one may call a
frontal clash regarding the question ci troop vithdrawal.
The War Minieter at the end of the talk said impressively:
"This ia a matter f.difference in character."

=== Page 481 === (confidence 0.98)
-58-
The utterance of the War Minister at the Cabinet meeting
of Ootober 14 was too suddeng and not a single Cabinet.
Minister spoke in response to it. The Cabinet meeting
discussed mome other items on the agenda and adjourned
without touching on Tojo's remarks.
Tojo Advises
General Resignation
On the same afternoon Director Muto of the Military
Affairs Bureau of the War Office came to the Chief Seoretary
of the Cabinet and told him:
"It seems to us that the Prime Minister remains indecisive
because the Navy doesn't make up its mind. If the Navy
doesn't desire war really, the Army must consider it. But the
Navy doesn't say such a thirg on the surface but says it
has entrusted the matter to the Prime Minister. The decision
of the Prime Minister alone would fail to control the men in
the Army. But if the Navy eays to the Army ffioially 'The
Navy at this time doesn't desire to have war.' the Army
will find it easy to control the men in the Army. Can 't the
Cabinet take.action so as to induce the Navy to say such
a thing?"
The Chief Secretary of the Cahinet told this to Director Oka
of the Naval Affairs Bureau of the Navy Office, and the latter
replied:
"The Navy is not in a position to say it doesn't desire war
in a formal way. All the Navy can say is that 'It has entrusted
the matter to the Prime Minister."
On the same night President Suzuki of the Planning Board
called on me at my private home as the War Minister's
messenger and brought the latter's meesage which follows:
"Our later investigation has shown that the Navy doonnit
desire war. Then, why coesn't the Navy Miister say so? If the
Navy Minister says it plainly, I must coasider it, but the Navy
Minister has virtually entrusted the matter to the frime
Minister. This is much regrettahle. If the Navy is really
indecisive, the decision. made a the Imperial Conference of
September 6 is fundamentally affected. In other words, this
means that the Prime Ministe:, the War and Navy Ministers and
the Chief of the Supreme C mmand who attonded the Imperial
conference did not discharge the duties fully in their
responsibility to assist the Emperor. Accordingly, we have to/
rgeion

=== Page 482 === (confidence 0.98)
-59 -
en bloc and return to a clean-slate position and new plane will
have to be made all over again. Among the people there is
is sight no one who would control the Army and Navy and make
a new plan, but I consider the orly means left open to
adeption is to induce a member of the Imperial Family to head
the next Cahinet. For this post Prince Bigashikuni is consieeeee
the most fitting candidate. I don't like to aak the Prime
Minister to resign, but now that things have come to suoh e
pass, I hope the Throne will be petitioned to allow the
appointment of Prince Higashikuni next Premier."
On the following day, that is, Votober 15, when I was
received in audience by His Majesty, I reported to the Threnel
"Last might Tojo sent in his word that Prince Higashibund
shauld be chosen to head the next Cabinet."
When I thus sounded the views of His Majesty, His Majesty
aaid:
"I thought Prince Higashikuni would become an ideal Chief
of the General Staff, but full caution must be exeroised in
regard to a member of the Imperial Family actually having
a hand in politics. In peacetime it may be all right, but im
view of the possibility of war, I consider it all the more
improper for a member of the Imperial Family to come out. Its
effect on the Imperial Family must be conaidered."
But the Emperor was not totally opposed to Prince Higashikuai'e
appointment. On my way back home I met Lord Keeper ef the Privy
Seal Kido and mentioned the name of Prince Higamhikuni. Kido
did not seem interested in this project.
On the same night I paid a seoret visit to Prirce
Higashikuni and communicated-to His Highness the views of the
War Minister. His Highness, when 'urged te rise to the occasion.
replied:
"Thermatter is too serious. Give me two or three days to
think it over."
But the prevailing situation was such that even a single
day could net be wasted. I mummoned all the Cabinet Ministess
to the Japanese roam of the official residence and in
individual talks with them I stated the reasons for which the
Cabinet had to resign en bloc. I obtained their understanding
and collecting their resignation papers, I prooeeded to the
Imperial Palace toward evening.

=== Page 483 === (confidence 0.97)
~60
War Minister Tojo
Given Imperial Command
Thus, the Konoye Cabinet resigned en bloc. The follgwing
day a conference of the senior fatesmen was held and the
Imperial Command to organize he next Cabinet fell on War
Minister Tojo. It ceems to me that it was due to the proposal
of Lord Keeper Kido that Wor Minister Tcjo was recommended to
the Throne. But t doesn't Feem to me that by picking up Tojo
the Lord Keeper 'intended to inv:te war between Japen and
the United Fates. It seems o have been the view of the Lord
Keeper utit siuce Tojo maiuteins everything must return to
a clean-ulate position bscauee the Navy'e view looks.
olarity, even if the Imperial Conmand fell on Tojo. he will
not plunge into war at once. Ecpecially, if at tne time
the Cormand falle on him the Emporor says a word or two about
the matver, the War M:nister wiil adopt a more cautioue attitude.
Such seomed to be the view of the Iord Keeper.
The circumstances leading up to the Cabinet change were am
tated abcve. Cn the surfaoe disunity was cauged to the
Cabinet as a conflict o? views between the Prime Minister bent
on continuing the Amarican-Japanese negotiations and the war
Minister intending to disrupt ther ana as a result, the ganeral
resignation fol owed. Accordingly. the fall c: the Imperial
Command on the War Minister was  aiculated to be interptoted
as apardonment of the Am-rican-Japanose rogstiptions and cpening
of an Americen-Japaneve War. But the Yall of the Imper al
Command on Tojo dia not mean war at once recause of ho ore-
going circumstances. Questions on this point were raisod at
the conference of renior suatesmen. The senior etateomon felt
relieved when they were tcld by Lord Keeper Kido that the
fall of the imparial Comimand or Tojo would n ver signiy 
immediate war between Jevan and the United Ste es and aiter
ebtaining such ussurarces, hey recomronded he Wa: Mirister to
the Throne for preniersh'n. This is whet I heard laser.
I. therefere, Bant a letter to Anbassalor Grew after my
resignation and told him that my re ignation is not a result
of the decision to open war betwecn Tapan and the United
States but that there is still left full rocm for further
American-Japanese negotiations.

=== Page 484 === (confidence 0.99)
-61-
In the United States the news of the general resignation
of the Konoye Cabinet gave a distinct shock. According to
Ambassador Nomura who told me this upon his return to Japan,
when the Cabinet was mhifted to War Minister Toj:, the American
Government thought there was no more any nope of the American-
Japanese negotiations materializing. Captain Turner who
maintained friendship with the Ambassador, the same officer
whose vessel carried the remains of the late Ambassador
Saito to Japan, called on the Ambassador and said:
"The Konoye Cabinet must have resigned because Premier
Konoye' abandoned his hope for the American-Japanese negotiations
since the President would not respond favorably to his
proposal for interviewing the President. But the President
did not reject the propoeal outright. He merely wanted to
make sure about two or three things beforehand. If the
assurances were made, he wanted very much to see Premier
Konoye gladly. The decision was made to dispatch a personal
message of the President to the Emperor to this effect and
the procedure was already taken." But a few days later the
same Captain came and said: "Objections were raised to the
matter of dispatohing a'personal message to the Emperor because
it wuuld constitute interference with the domestic politics
.of Japan. After all, the idea was dropped."
Emperor Keserved Toward
Supreme Command
Recalling the hard sailing of the American-Japanese
negotiations, I am strongly impressed by the lack of unity
between the Supreme Command and the "dministration. The
independence of military affairs from the administrative
matters had been a source of trouble to each succeeding
cabinet. In the case if the American-Japarese negotiations,
while we were abmorbed in the negotiations, the fighting
sexices were fully engaged in preparations to cope with the
rupture of the negotiations. What preparations were being
made I could not know. Diplomacy as a result could not
keep the pace with the military. They moved or mobilized
the ships and the United States found it out and came to have
suspicion about the sincerity of our diplomacy. The lack
of unity between diplomacy and military affairs was the
source of trouble to me.

=== Page 485 === (confidence 0.97)
-62 -
At the time hot arguments were made as to whether or not
Japan should fight the United States since September last
year, Prince Higashikuni, ene ef those advising caution in the
matter, once declared that the Emperor alone would be able to
mave the mituation. His Majesty said to me as well as Prinee
Meashikumi that His Majesty was troubled by the action ef
the military several times. His Highness Prince Higashikuni
masd to His Majesty that it was inadvisable for His Majesty
to remain in the role of a commentator. If His Majesty
theught anything inadvisable, His Majesty should say se.
Patoce Higashikuni is said to have told His Majesty.
Thus, the Empefor meldew expresses Hs own viewa out of
reserve. Prinoe Sadonji and Count Makino mad taught His
Majesty not te tke the iaitiative in adberenge to the
Britimh-style cenetitution, but the Japamese Constitution
exdsts on the tremdee of the Emperor's personal
administration. It is fundamentally different from the British
Gonstitution. Especially in regard to the matter of Supreme
Command, the Govermment has no voice whatever. It is the
aperor alone who can control both the Gevernment and the
Suprome Command.
It is said abltright in peacetime that the Emperor
should be paesive, but when the country stands at the
dress-reads of rise or fall, trouble is likely to occur
If the Emperor merely gives encouragement or advice as in
Bagland, military affairs and political diplomacy cannot
mavance in unison. This point was strongly felt in the course
of the latest American-Japanese negotiations.
In concluston, I should like to say one hing:
Although the attitude f His Majesty as the constitutional
omarch was passive thus HisMajesty's concern always lay in
the maintenarce of peace in the Pacific. His Majesty endeavored
to aypid a puage inte such an uncertain great war and was
moriously concerned ever the maintenance of the 2,600-year-eld.
natienal pelity umpelluted. It was very painful far me to see
His Majesty me much concerned ever the matter.
THE END

=== Page 486 === (confidence 0.93)
Ofice Memorandum· UNEDTT
DATH March
To :U - Mr. A6on
117
mom : FE - Mr. Vin ent
SUBJECT :
/3-24
Here is a memorandum that Owen
Lattimore produced for me at my request.
I think you will be interested in the
46
first two pages on Japan and you may
want to read his interesting observations
yR
on China and Mongolia.
52
893.00
893.00 Morngolin
Jc.V.
UNDER SECRETARY
CSN
MAR 4 - 1946
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.00
3
FE:JCVincent:oc
2

=== Page 487 === (confidence 0.95)
re tunw too
118
REOWIVD
(COPY)
OCT 1 4 1948
Memorandum
DIVISION OF
5 February 1946
To: Mr. J. C. Vincent
From: O. Lattimore
Subject: Recent Ubservations in Japan and China.
The following notes are based on impressions formed
while I was with Ambussador Pauley's Reparations
Mission, and I have jotted them down for your possible
interest because they have nothing to do with the
problen of reparations, but may have some bearing on
overall trends in Asia.
3
1. Second Phase in Japan.
The first phase of occupation in Japan has been
ably carried out by Geneal MacArthur and his staff.
The Japunese are disarmed. There is no military danger
latent in Japan. This first phase may be concisely
described as the process of making the Japanese pow-
less to d) what we don't want them to do.
A second phase now opens, presenting the problem
of how to make the Japanese do what we do want them to
do. In this phase, the Japanese have considerable
ressurces of resistance, evasion, and even political
and psychological counterattack.
The essential fabric of the old structure of power
and rule in Japan remains intact. Those who enjoyed
power and rule will maneuver tenaciously to avoid
letting their privileges pass into other nands. It
is true that they are now the ruling class of a defeated
a.d mucn weaker csuntry; but within that country their
0C1141948
relative powe:, far fron being aiminished, is greater
than it ever was. Therefore it is logical for them to
FILED
think in terms of rebuildin, from the still intact
foundations, as much us tuey can of the shaken super-
structure, maintainin: anu reaffirming as far as pos-
sible the old proportions nd relative vaiues.
For America, and for the United Nations, tho over-
all problem of the second phase is now to encourage the?
remaking of Japun int) a country in whisn there is
a reasonable prospect of evolving an economic order
RECうRDS
racy. And the probl en is not only to initiate free
enterprise und political democracy, but to axe sure
that they have as much survivul value es possible.
Directives

=== Page 488 === (confidence 0.99)
119
-2-
Directives aimed at bringing about the desired char
will necessarily bear unequally on different seetions e
the propulation. To some they will mean the ourtailing
of old special advantages. To others they will mean the
opening of new opportunities. Those who are hurt will
ory out; but will those who are benefited, or potentially
benefited, rejoice audibly? Not necessarily. Long
repression has left many people politically timid. Even
though a SCAP ordinance may be welcomed by them, they will,
in their present mood, hesitate to take up promptly the
advantages offered to them. The most prevalent fears
which inhibit them are: How far will SCAP eventually go
with the directives it is issuing, and how long will soAP
stay in Japan? If SCAP does not go far enough, before
leaving, or if SCAP leaves too soon, they fear that the
old order may resume full sway in Japan and take revenge
on those who acted too hastily on what seemed to be the
implications or suggestions of the SCAP direotives.
The logical approach would appear to be to issue
direotives which, when they necessarily curtail the inter-
ests of a group capable of vocal protest and political
evasion or resistance, also elicit active enthusiasm and
support, instead of mere passive wait-and-see assent,
from some other group. If a directive opens up unmis-
takeable opportunities to a new group interest, that
group is likely to feel the need to organize politically
in order to protect and extend its newly acquired interest.
Only on some such basis as this can we expect a healthy
political life to develop in Japan. Until the political
"reform" parties are likely to represent little more than
pious formulae. A workable democratic system requires
competitive group interests represented by competing
parties and competitive programs.
2. The Meiji Rescript on Education.
The following is not intended as criticism of General
MacArthur's program. He has an excellent staff seotion
working on the problems of education. I believe, however,
that it would be to the general good if the Department of
State were independently to advise action on these
problems.
The Meiji Rescript on Education has been as much a
fountainhead of authoritarianism in Japan as the privileged
position of the Army and Navy. Even if the present high
degree of centralization in Japanese education were to be
amended by measures of decentralization (and I myself do
not believe decentralization to be of primary importanoe)
Japanese education will remain vulnerable to authoritarian
thought-control unless the Resoript on education is repealed.
The

=== Page 489 === (confidence 0.98)
120
-3-
The initiative in repealing the Reseript on educatios
should come, and come openly, from American polioy. Other
wise there is the danger either that a Japanese-worded
repeal would not clearly enough condemn use of the
imperial aura to justify authoritarian thought-control,
or that the rank and file of teaohers and professors would
not get up the courage to teach and praotice freedom of
K
thought in education.
3. Some Brief Notes on China.
In foreseeing the end of the war in Asia and the
Pacifio the Japanese out-guessed us in one important
respect. We undertook great preparations to make coastal
China a major theater of military action in the final
phase of the war. The Japanese, knowing that they would
probably sucoeed in ending the war by a relatively digni-
fied surrender, concentrated on making China a major
theater of future, post-war political operations.
The Japanese won, to the following extent:
They kept up produotion, especially in the Shanghai
area, enough to prevent critical industrial unemployment.
They managed to keep up relatively good distribution of
goods -- better than in Free China. They enforced a
relatively efficient control of prices.
When surrender came -- as a result of negotiations
in distant Japan, not of visible defeat in the field in
China -- the Chinese Government viotory bandwagon rolled into
Shanghai, Peiping, and Tientsin, wi th an overflowing load
of Kuomintang party stalwarts. Industrial produotion
ceased. Distribution was paralyzed. The Party stalwarts
assembled the Chambers of Commerce and assessed them for
cash levies. Then they turned the merchants loose on the
public, wi th permission to get their money back.
Result: The high-sounding words "Victory" and
"Liberation" have acquired, in Shanghai and elsewhere,
the connotations of stagnant production, unemployment,
skyrocketing prices, and new taxes and impositions.
These connotations are derogatory to the National Govern-
ment and to the Americans as the most conspicuous Allies
of the National Government.
4. A New Crisis in Inner Mongolia.
In Peiping, I had a long conversation with Teh Wang,
who was at one time the most important Mongol nationalist
leader in Inner Mongolia. Later he was made conspicuous
as

=== Page 490 === (confidence 0.99)
121
-4
as the most important figurehead of Japanese costrol of
the Mongols of Inner Mongolia. He has now been listed
by the Chinese Communists as a war oriminal -- a kind
of Potain.
It is my belief, however, that Teh Wang was never a
willing collaborator of the Japanese. He was always on
good terms with Chiang Kai-shek. The failure, in the
1930's, to set up an Inner Mongolian autonomy that could
serve as a back-fire against Japanese propaganda is
attributable primarily to the inability of Chiang Kai-
shek to control the Chinese provincial generals who had
a vested interest in exploiting the Mongols -- esped ally
by expropriating their pasture lands. As a result of
the local pressure of the Chinese on the Mongols, the
Mongols were thrown into the arms of the Japanese. Teh
Wang did not lead the Mongols of Inner Mongolia over to
the side of the Japanese. He merely went with them,
when there was no where else to go.
Teh Wang's behavior at the time of Japan's col-
lapse, and Teh Wang's views at the present time, should
therefore be of partioular interest.
When Japan surrendered, Teh Wang was in Kalgan.
His return to his own territory in Inner Mongolia was
apparently barred by the military situation. He may well
have been equally unwilling to fall into Russian or
Outer Mongolian hands, by trying to get to his home in
Inner Mongolia, or into Chinese Communist hands, by
staying in Kalgan. At any rate, he escaped to Peiping.
From there he was flown to Chungking, where he saw
President Chiang. Because of all this, Teh Wang has
been put on the "wanted" list of war oriminals by the
Chinese Communists.
Teh Wang is in a situation in which he might easily
be seized and suddenly killed not only by the Chinese
Communists, or by one or another group of Mongol revolu-
tionaries, but by the Chinese Government, or one of its
agencies, because in spite of his good personal relations
with President Chiang, he still stands for a kind of Mongol
nationalism which is opposed and feared by many Chinese.
At the same time, Teh Wang still has bargaining power, and
might yet come to the fore again as a figure acceptable,
under some kind of compromise agreement, to the Chinese
Government, the Chinese Communists, the Outer Mongolian
Government, and the Russians.
The following is a ∞ncise recapitulation of what
Teh Wang had to say:
a) He

=== Page 491 === (confidence 0.99)
122
-5-
a) He believes that his son and heir (now nemmis
age of 30, I believe) may have escaped into Outer
If so, Teh Wang may be able to present a case to the out
Mongoiian Government.
b) Teh Wang is certain that there will be an Inner
Mongolian movement for secession from China and, eventuallt
for union with Outer Mongolia. Such a movement would be
popular in his own part of Inner Mongolia (northern fringes
of Suiyuan and Chahar) and, he believes, even more popular
in Eastern or Manchurian Inner Mongolia (northern Jehol;
western fringes of Liaoning, Kirin, and Heilungkiang).
c) Such a Mongol movement would obvdously oreate a
situation favorable to Russia; but in Teh Wang's positive
opinion the genesis of the movement will be local and
Mongol, not Russian.
d) The Mongol hereditary aristocracy, to which Teh
Wang himself belongs, has always been hostile to Outer
Mongolia, but will not oppose this new movement. Teh
Wang said in so many words that there is no politioal hope
in any movement which aims to preserve Mongol feudalism.
e) The only way to forestall the kind of pan-Mongol
movement predicted by Teh Wang is, in his opinion, to throw
together all ongol-inhabited areas in Chahar, Suiyuan,
Jehol, and Western Manchuria and make them into one pro-
vince, with a great deal of autonomy ("like Canada").
The difficulty in carrying through such a measure is
that it would be opposed by the Chinese provincial authori-
ties and provincial militarists, who still stubbornly
insist that the way to deal with the Mongols of Inner
Mongolia is to keep them broken up into "reservations",
each one isolated in a corner of some Chinese province.
In view of the importance of the foregoing -- which
is capable of ramifying far beyond the area immediately
affected -- I venture some specific suggestions.
a) Assign an American to familiarize himself immedi-
ately with Inner Mongolian problems and personalities.
Colonel William Mayer, at present I believe G2 to
Gene ral Wedemeyer, has suttable background experience.
b) Reestablish as soon as possible American consular
representation in Manohuria and at such cities as Kalgan;
establish new consulates at Kueisui (Suiyuan), Chihfeng
(Jehol), Taonan (Lioning) and Hailar (Heilungkiang).
c) Take

=== Page 492 === (confidence 0.98)
o) Take adveatage of the recognision 
independence by China to extend American ree
Outer Mongolia. Establish consular represent
preferably diplomatic representation, at Ulan
It is not suggested that the foregoing measures wonld
solve the problems which we may ∞nfidently expeot to
arise along the Mongolian frontiers; but it is urged that
we should have listening posts, we should know what is
going on, and we should be in a position to extend among
the Mongol peoples the prestige which we already have as
the most important nation in the international relations
of Russia and China.

=== Page 493 === (confidence 0.88)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
CFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
To'yo, Japan, March 19. 1946.
No. 712
SUBJECT: Candidates for Japanese ict.
The Officer in Charat has the onor to transit copie
in triplicate of the Tokyo newspape: Asahi of Harch 18, 1945.
which contains a complete list of announced candidates for
the fortheomiue cl ction to the  ancse Dit. The longth of
this list aru artatt of rtaff at this ffice hae made tran-
lation impracticatle. it is  clicveu this list will be of
cx
interent to IHIS nd JA.
1946
Enclusure:
Newapaper Abchi of
March 19, 1946 (in triplicate)
In triplicate to Depatzent.
803
JSServiceivs
0
SEP 21 148
1
CC
L
RECEVED
196 2
.894.
8
3

=== Page 494 === (confidence 0.85)
OFFICE 7 TH UEITED STATES POLITICAL AVI
Telye, Japaa. Narch 19. 1946.
o. 312
BJBOT: Candidatee fer Japanese Diet.
The Offieer in Charge has the hemer te transmit cepies
La triplicate af the Tekye novspaper Leahi ef Narah 18. 1946,
which centains a complete list es amneunced candidates fer
the ferthceming eloctiem to the Japemese Diet. The length of
this list asd shertage os staff at this Orfice has mde trent
latien impracticable. It is believed this list will be es
interest to IRIs d JA.
helesure:
Nevapaper Ammhi of
Mareh 18, 1946 (1m triplicate)
In triplicate to Department.
803
JSService:vs

=== Page 495 === (confidence 0.92)
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japan, March 28, 1946
De/R
No. 338
47
SUBUECT:
Thart of Japanese Ultra-Nationalistic Societies
RECRA
H
4/00
6
1946 AF
The Officer in Charge has the honor to transmit under
894.00/3-2846
separate cover three copies of a chart prepared by the Office
xK
of the Chief Counter-Intelligence Officer, United States
94.43
Army, Pacific, showing the principal Japanese ultra-nationalistic
societies, their leadership, and affiliations.
Enclosure:
Three copies of chart,
as stated. (Under
separate cover)
Original and osalid to Department
800
JBService:jwb
OCF VF Unit
na
R.
EMS
f
Cal
Dist

=== Page 496 === (confidence 0.84)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR GERMANY
OFFICE OF
rankfurt
roh
APRI51946
USTRIN
-E
APP1946
Br/R
r norltti
1wont y
ilhelm
Jlucsen.
H
ule
HC
894.00/3-2946
The eer
APR11946
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
e.in ton,
ir:
rn it hore ith s of
o siule t Pos ivision neserfairs
sttnt
1 ren,e. s been
reccived
n
 ter,
fro: a riti. poree.
C
5
vi. er:
PH
33
946 AR 0
值
liti.l vrteer
CS/V
701.9462
101
melosure:
C
t telent (sin le co y)
DCR
EUR Urit
is
ile 0. 20.02
Anal
Coffie/des
946
BRT
Cat
In Triplicute to Dep rtment
(Sin;le Cooy of Enclosure) (Dst
Copy to CE - r. Riddleber er
T

=== Page 497 === (confidence 0.96)
Frankfurt, 29 Mareh 1940
REOTRICTED
NO. 81
SUBJECT: Tranamitting  tatement by Dr. wilhelm
Classen.
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State,
"ashington, D. C.
Sir:
I have the honor to transmit herewith as of
possible interest to the vivision of Japanese Affairs
a statement by Dr. 1lhelm Classen, whioh has been
received by United tates "oroes, European Theater,
from a British source.
Respeotfully yours,
For the Political Adviser:
c. Orrie
Political Orfioer
Enclosure:
Statement (single copy).
File No. 820.0za
corfie/des
In Triplieate to Department
(single Copy ef melesure);
Cepy to Cz - Mr. Riddleberger.

=== Page 498 === (confidence 0.98)
STATEMENT BY DR. WILHELM CLASSEN.
In tho cvont of tho Britigh Authoritiog - in particular tho Far Eastorn
Dopartnent of the Socret Scrvice - wishing to open up a ney inforuntion
scction cmbracing Far Eastorn Qucstlons and which would d al with rolovont
matorial which haa beon athercd by G rnnn obporyation and uxporiunce. tho
following perconalitios should be consider d for ponsibl collaboration owing
to thoir opocinlist knowled and their cxp rioneo in mnking Intelli once
1. Legationsrat Dr. K.O. BRAUN, hitherto Referent for Far Eastern Questions
and in charge of the Ear Eastern Department of the Foreign Cffice. One can
probably contact him by means of the Restsekretariat of the Foreign Offioe
in Berlin. It is possible that he is in American hands at the moment, as
towards the end of the war, he was staying in BAD GASTEIN where he looked
after the Japanese Embassy. BRAUN kept clear of national socialism He
is a person of great character with a particularly good knowledge of his
subjects. If ecessary the undersigmed can get in touch with him.
2. Herr Karl ZAHL. ZAHL was for a few years general Secretary to the
German-Japanese Society in Berlin and "Assistant" or Secretary to Admiral
FOERSTER who was president of that Society.
ZAHL had been previously
to Japan as an exchange student and after his return studied "Japanology".
He was due for promotion at the beginning of the war.
In Spring 1940
he and the undersigned wer ordered by the foreign office to go to Japan
as part of the German delegation vhose object was to popularise the idea of
the Tripartite Pact witran the intellectual circles in Japan. ZAHL speaks
and writes Japanese fluently and is also very well informed regarding the
political develoupment in Japan. Hc knows a great number of people in Japan,
many of whom could be used as able "V-Leute". ZAHL was finally a Leutnant
with an armsured Unit in the East where he was wounded in January of this
year. When the war finished he was in a reserve hospital in SCHILTACH
OBERBAYERN and is alss thercfore prcsumably in American hands, if he has not
been released as a casualty. In this case h: should still be found in
SCHILTACH where he had cvacuatec his family and put up vith his brother-in-
law ho is a Dogtor in that towm.
3. Herr Joern LEO. LEO was anRSHA Referent on Japanese questions. He is
possibly the only German who graduated at a Japanese University as a Japanose
Doctor. He speaks perfect Japancsc and has always kept himself informed
pn political developments iry Japan. He has considerable connections with
leading Japanese politicians and must be regarded as one of 'the best experts
on Japan.
4. Professor Dr. Wilhelm CLASSEN - University HEIDELBERG.
(Signed) Wilhelm CLASSEN.

=== Page 499 === (confidence 0.98)
bassedor Oshime and his Staff.
1. OSHTA
Because of his previous background OSHIMA was no diplomat, but a saldi
and at heart never overcame this past. He only thought in military
consideration and had little interest on understanding for the bigger and
more intricate problems of foreign policy. Like most officers of the
Japanese Army, OSHITMA was convinced that it was war which was the decisive
influence in politics. To me ho has repeatedly expressed the opinion that
the only driving force of Japanese history in modern times and the only really
decisive factor in the Japanese rise (in home and external spheres) since
1858 was the Japanese Army. He does not acknowledge that Japanese industry
played any part in the rise of Japan since the middle of the last century.
In disoussions he was alvays of the opinion that the Japanese asoent was due
to the succcssful vars of the period. Only in support of these wars were
industry and culture ablc to participatç in the reconstruotion and
development of modern Japan and then they certainly were of valuable help:
but the dccisive factors were only the Army and the wars.
This fundamental attitude of OSHIMA's may also help to explain why
he showed such a remarkably favourable disposition towards National Soxialsim
in the .Third Reich.
No doubt OSHIMA's conviction of the great value of
National Socialism was quite genuine, because he defended it with energy
against all sceptics who were fairly stron ly represented in his Embassy. He
was literally fascinated by personalities such as HITLER, GOERING and HIMLER
and his attitude towards thom vas one devoid of criticism. He often went
to the Fuehrer's Headquurters ith the firm intention of putting before the
Fuchrer, on the orders of his Government, some criticisms by the Japanese
Government regarding certain questions of the conmunal var offort and to
explain these to him. As a rul the intorview with the Fuehrer tok the
course that he interruptod OsiIMA abruptly and then gave him a long lecture
during which the Corman attitud is presented as the only correot one and the
Japanese attitude as incorroct. In all the e cnses OSHIMA returned from the
Fuchrer's Headquarters as a "convert". This vas often related to me, not
only by OSHIMA's first secretary but also by his first Botschaftsrat. The
leading officials of th Jap nese Embassy vero extremely disconcerted by
OShHTMA's lack of discrimination and by his servility towards the Fuchrer and
Fuchrer's Headquarters, and never hesitated to voic: their anxiety. Within
the Embassy they called OSHIMA in a jocular manner "Pg Otto". Even in April
the attache Oga told me "OSHIMA will still belicve  a German victory even
when the Russian tanks are standin in front of the Embassy in the Tiergarten".
The result of OSHIMA's unqualificd support of National Socialism and its
leading personalities was a certain enstragoment fron his Embassy Staff.
The majority of the latter were experienced diplomatic officials who were at
least somewhat more reserved in thcir judgement about National Socialiin
owing to their numerous observations and comparisons in other countries.
Therefore they did not share OShTMA's unbounded admiration.
Somehow the Japanese forein Officc had realized comparatively carly
(during the time of proparation for the Tripartite pact) that OstTMA's reports
about the position in Germany were unr liable in their contents and especially
not critioal enough. The Forcigm Office secured, thercfor, information
about the internal position in Gormany through other channels - during the
last few years (until October 1944)-by means of a particularly clever and
experienced professional diplomat who was sent to Berlin ith a faked special
mission and who was included in the Embassy Staff, although he was officially
not under OSHIMA's orders - his direct communication with Tokio not being
controlled by OSHIMA. The last special cmissary" of this kind was SAKUMA
who was recalled to TokIo in October or November of last ycar. to report, but
was held up in Stookholm (as far as I kno:/ until the cnd of the war).
The military attache and thc Naval attache also regarded themselves
as superior to OSHIMA becausc they did not refrain from criticism of National
Sooialism and the German Government.
Far beyond their real soope as
attaohes of. the armed orces, they also reported to TokIo through their own
channels and with their own codes about purely political matters whioh they
observed in Germany in terms quite different from Oshima's reports.

=== Page 500 === (confidence 0.88)
Thus we kmew connaratively early t at not ruch attention was given t
reports in Tokio but rather to renorts fron the attaches and SAkuA
Gerran affairs were concerned. On the questions of the larger Europ
political issues (on which nominally the Berlin Ambassador was also suppes
to report) the Japanese Abassador in Madrid, SUA - well mown to me a
politician vith a very stron, leaning tovards Anerica - was congulted.
Therefore OSHDiA was really li tl respected in the Ministry, on whose orde
he was active in Berlin, and vas harlly takten soriously. That he remained in
Berlin all the sae and was not replaced even during the nost critical poriod
of the Gorran-Japanese rolations was due ntircly to the key position which the
Japancse military party occupiod vithin the entire political structure of
Japan cinco the signing of the Tripartite Pact, and about which I mado sono
very intoresting discoverics hon I was in Japan in 1940 on a mission for the
Gorman Forcign Office. This vas due, not Lonst, to a sories of convorsations
which I had with OSiT A ho as then in Totio (since ho had been ronoved fron
his Berlin post, for a tine, shelved and reolaccd by KURusu). To tho loading
Filitary Party, ard to Tojo in particular, it vas unimportant whethor OshDu
Was un to the standard that ne nor nily xpected of a highly qualifiod
profossional dinlomnt or not. They ur ly consider d that OShDA wns the
best nn to snfe- uar? c ran-Janan n collaboration and thus guarantoe that
Japan coul roly on the : ost thorou h uee of tho Gernan var potentialsfor thoir
own ar pians. By rnintainin OSHI 4, the ilitary party indulced in tho
sure practice as in other cn  - a partioularly instructive one boins in
hnchurin, he th vo  Joan  haoandor,which as a fictitious
one any y, a hel by y 0/C of th nntur Aray Poscibly they might
have r nrded it no a loee o or ut ir they hod had to withdraw Oshr2 and
ave hir poet to a forci n o n.  sim, as I ronlined in 1940, they
pore perroctly a a thrt po only the Japan e Forein ninacter SHIGE ITSU
but n1so Se 1 ain cli n or cer o fie ale nloyed in the Gairushe,
re arded thic uncoapro ain l pro- r pn lin of Japancee forcign policy ith
the ront  o  ticio. Th r for no  meonality chooon ron those circles
could havevn th  rn o neonditionnl collaboration with Gorrnny
a Osury. did. At Aay ro th liry Party ne porfectly anre of
osa inor icinyoo n o atind uven by
n Fro  ir on C  Atah in Durlin 4d iral Kor.
NvrtholoCThi cannot only hve been
duc to the foct tht Tojo d OslIu r f liow re lutos at the sae Cndot
sehool vl t ilitary  y nd r For riorte, but also because Oshru.
aoooared, to th pilitary narty, to t t safet an to safocuard Gornn-
Japenuse relntiona and enloit th in th inter t of Japan.
OsHI4, as already nt netet, h a nu b r of opponents ho ot only
dislik a hi wo nsonal y but vro ind p ni at r oorts to To io entirely
diff.r d to his o. The chi of th  the hove ntioned spocial
cnissnry, S. Ua, ho is prohe ly still in Stoc'thol. Korcover-the nnval
Attnche, KoJr4, ho wns roba 1 the ort bril iant n in the Japeneso
riasion in Berlin, crd ho in poi ot cll bis laynlty tounrds Oshru
differed entiroly in his opinion  nrdin G rrnny's position. There vho
also tho firat Botschafturet  hara, ho  ocited particularly closoly
vath me durin the last worke beror. u col iape (when Oshro. hed alrondy
been evacunted to Bad Gautoin ith th lar: r art of his Eubauay) bucnuso
he so d to tink that I i in be aht to ut hi: in direet contact with tho
Reich Forcign Mini. or, JoD, or Ta. Theilitary Attache Generel KouTSu,
hovever, cannot ho re ard d  o o OsiEv's opponente. Hin line vno tho
unne ns Oshnv.'s. Ho rs notry v ractl. or cxpori need in politics, and.
thus did not apprcciate t dor rou   rioration of the position as it
bocnmo npparent sine the u r o 1543. 4 definit on onent or OshPt.'s,
hovover, ne the 1ready entdoned Jaoon no A baseador in ndrid - SUu.
During confidonticl converentions vith Jaoan so diplornts vith hon I ihs
nequnintod, I lenrn d that Suv. hod onlere to approach Sir Sn: uel Honre in
Indrid in n nost caroful nnner (ither hi self or by sone inter odinty) in
ordor to sound hin as to poscibl: En lish ro-nctions to a possiblo Japanoso
withdravnl fron the Trinartite Pact. This wns on the ordora of Shignmitaus
and without tho knovlodgo of the  ilitary Pnrty. In nddition, SUu. hnd ordors
to compilo Sitrops nbout the conernl Europenn cituntion vhich, it is cortain,
woro tnkon fnr nore soriously in tho Cninushe thnn OSuDu's roports. Finnlly,
Anong OSHDA's opponents, there ns SATO, Japnuno Ahhaandor in Tioscot,
tho did not only harbour tho uoual rocont ont or the prof ossional diplont
potanot ch litry "outaidor" but noreover kmow Os I%. ns ono of the oat
fanntionl enenies of the Bolshevic rogine, who hnd ............

=== Page 501 === (confidence 0.80)
-3-
plonded for Japan's ontry into the inr ngninst tho Soviot Union up to 
midalo of 1943, together with the oxtronist ing of the Military Party
(prinrily tho Officero of tho Kmntun: Amy) - a projoct ngninst whioh w
kopt wmrning continually and c phatically, ns I wno told by KAWaRA.
Incidontally aftor tho spring of l944 OshnV. bocano n forvont advocate of 
Gornn-Russian "rapprochanent". This ns duc, as I found out through
privato conversntions, not only to dei inite concroto orders sent hi: by his
jinistry, but also to the boli'f that Dolshovisn had rennriably changod sinco
the altorntion of tho conotitution of tihe Soviot Union in F bruary 1942, and
had, therefore, becone nerely a kind of pinte pocinlien on an oxtronely national
beuis. This seen d worth consid ration for Japan horsolf, providod the Tonno
syete and the privilc d position of the arry ithin the Japanene Governiont
 mo nin'ninod. The follovin illustration vill sho: how ruch Oshna's
attitud. had chanred on thin noint.
At the boginnin, of thir y ar, osHra vicited NAuu, th: Socrotary
of Stat. in the PMinintry of Prone n and xplained to hm at lon th why
he e cdvocntine the nece or  0 r an-Rusuinn "raoorochenent".
am r  coy of  conver ch I  nocidentully. It quoted
OSHI co havine cA the ot oan: "Ir I (OsHIVA) now lvoto a Gorann-
Sov i "ranorochenent" vthout r morvet on. I ave pt a particuler claim to
to heard becauce in the vhol of Japan thore is no more rudicnl onomy of
Do hovir thnn nyeelf, h vine o  ttcipat I in the mrooar tion for on
t pt a ninot Stalin" osry. uit  re thet trn turn of ovents
vou be indicatod to the Furer by ta. Ho hime h od aoked NauuNN
o  orn Hurler about th cony roatioo nt also if po  l to errange on
int ry vath Himlr. Ao fh I mo, owover,  ntery never
ialsd.
Isny alco be nuntion    ir1 or Japano mr lanto who
nnoi osthrThey
wtive in Borlin did not
l, thout exeception,r ar o    un riaal n r-on or the
Gon Govornnt orn u1v of
woonnda". Host of the    Cor Jen Int Lli uroe nnd did
or rport t theat froct.
nod r frain fron ivina th ir
l chn
Thu: one can nin a n rel
Po1lo
os e prinrl lo 1 under
 in or the finer and
tie1dlopntHo
r thir only in r li1 tli,p untu by propa anda
ant Articularly by HITuER
ane r.Ti r or:  arrived at
tieoata enor  r  urront stete of
afre1d For  oprovidod
they1 or aore. Tueb r rded by hip
on worre Go, r lieel ion who would
Malitery Part hach  ue o t unint pot   or Foree
Potvr
A dl olmurePoopoct for
wws ol  co o oay y on ran aly
under   luene o leohoi -h h  lie- bohov sr not uual
amonget diplon Innh ro live than in
cuctorry voor danloat.  po soe Sat the mattery PHavour of
o ficinl and prive lire in Gr any and uierty in Berlan contributed
considerabty to  Pt  ho or e   o mch.
Durin April oshD ov    r t   Ebnsuy to Bnd
Gnstoin. Finally hin lo ov r Thore h nn epecinlly lookod
aftor by the Ruichstatthalt r o. Salzbur - Dr. SC Tsn, whoe closu friond
he had boen for yenre. It a noar tnt OunI no captured by Lauricen
troops while he ne tr in: to o mst fro: Brd Getoin - pr oumbly in tho
diroction of Switzerlrnd.
/4.....

=== Page 502 === (confidence 0.90)
KAWAHARA.
KAWAHARA wns the first Botschaftsrat under OSHDM. As he va a pro
diplomnt he stood in slight opposition to OSHT fron the very beginning.
Hovever, ho no disciplined onough not to let antagonisn intorfere with hi
routino offic collaboration vith OsnIA. But, as ho told no, thdro woro
often vory strong differonces of opinion botweon thom. As a rulo, theae.
concornod tho compilation of the roports for Tokio vhosc final journalistio
touches vore put in by KAWHAR.. To overy report corpil d by OSnDu, KAWH
usunliy addod n fow touchos of hio oim in ordor to sonewhat dann OsnD.'s
optinion vhich vas in disagrocnent vith his own opinion. Whonover osnru
notic d thiu ho ot vory annoyed.
Contrary to nost other Japanose working in the Wostern Countrios, KAWRs
ronain d connletely "unwestornised". Ho regnrdod hinsclf alinyo vory ruch
no an Aointic, and nuver disguised hie disparag ont of anything vostorn. Ho
Iavour d the policy of compl to "ranprochoriont" but: on Jupar and the Soviot
Uni n and it soin d to hin tht Japan could cnnily ive up Ihnchurin and
Kor a in ordor to achic ve this nin. Ho is full of resont vont agninst tho
Unit d Stateo. Togother with n lnrger circle of highor officinlo of the
For in Office in Tokio he believes in the poasibility of on enduring conoral
sottl nt of Sino-Chinuse relations on the basis of a vory cloo ccononic
co-or aation botvcen Japan, the Sovict Union and China. H has froquently
っtona to
 so-cnlled "Aoinopnct" vhich no suopos ! to have buon tho
mubj et o nocotintiono in Autum 1944 betve n Japaneo, Chun  ing-Chincso and
Sovi t iuenri s. No confirnntion of this revort as obtcinablo Hovovor
  rurour uno repontodly circulated by monb re o tho Hanikin: Chinose and
E Ihanchurian Eubaaey in Berlin.
Tl WAHAR. van vorking in Borlin under OSHD, he ns conplotoly
ov rohado A by hin, though he wno firot Botochartorat nd th r fore next
 nior oFFicinl cFter osHnu. Ho veo compl.tely  lina by Osury. vho
laye ter publicity. Therefore he wms lit rally r li v d vhon OsiDu.
v cit hinm f to Bad Cnotoin. Thuo he been the chi of the ronminder
of  P plin Enbasoy and tricd by all moans to play soe part, at loast,
Jurin  aet phnse of the war, by pulling all poscible strin a in order to
ut p eone contaet ath Ribbentrop, Hiraler, Schellonbur and tho Okv
Durine th  co nniono he tried by hil nonne at his diepocal to mako the
Connye consider a upecinl ponce offor to the Sovi t Union. He protonded that
ho lann fron a ory soerct and also very r liabie souree that the Soviut Union
ne still r ady or n cotintiono vith the Roich in rch l945. Whon I naked
hin wh th r e wae in touch vith Sato in Hoscow p nrdin them mttore, he
somored in the n ntive. Hovever, I know that aWuR. knew about tho
oxintonce or a lin of corrunicntion vin Sitzorland to ouco, controlled
by Naval Attacht, Aduiral KOJTu and therofore it is pousibl. that KWHR.
rocciv d his up cicl inforrntion fron Hosce: throuh this cource.
KAWAulARA stay 1 in Berlin until the end of April and is then supposed
to heve cacaned sonethere north. I do not ao hether ho ot no fnr no
Svadon. Idcalogicnlly ho stande close to the or vi ue n  cinl crisenry in
Borlin, ShiUra, ho is now in Stockholn, and therufor it  ny be nosu ed that
ho vould try to t in touch vith hin. Shoull awuuRa be usod conin in
diplontic cervice, aftor his roturn to Japan, ho ill be cployed comhero in
4pin, so he nssured . In this case other vontern countries ropre sonted
in Ensturn Asin cnn be cortin to noet in WAlR: a rosolved ene y of nll
Wostern influencun. He ill use his ponition to har: Western intorosts in
all circunatances in opite of huin outinrdly corrcct in hiu bohaviour.
3.
UCHID
UCHD: vns firat Botschftsokretaer (E baosy Secrotary) and at tho anno
tino n kind of priv to socr tary to OSHI& and nlno the "colloeting point" for
tho intelligonco co: unicntions controllod by. OsIrv.. UCHID. ina tho only
nonbor of the Ebosey ataff who wt ith OshrA through "thick nnd thin", and
rognrdod OsnrV's viowe ns absolutely sncred. I havo nlinya doubtod vwhothor
UaiIDs did this out of honout convicti m. Ho ins uch too cunning and too
cnroful for thnt. Proourbly ho had his carpor at tho back of his mind.
Anyhow ho ms outunrdly alvnya a thorough-cping ndhoront and dofondor of oshng
tomrds tho othor nonboro of tho Enbasay stnff nnd tho nomboro of tho Japanodo
Colony in Borlin.

=== Page 503 === (confidence 0.85)
-5-
Anyhow thore ims one point in hich uaimA egreed with Oanm 
of honest conviction; this was ro arding Japanese-Soviet relationship.
UCuMA ms definitely "Russophile", but not bocause of any positive
disposition toards cowunisn  as in the caso of nany other Japanose.
On tho contrary UChIDA liked a rather foudal and American stylo of
livin on a crand scale. His leanin tovards Russia is sirply explained
becauso he believos ta Japanene Russian solidarity constitutos the "key
to future Japanes: uxistence". Thou h norrrlly he hed himsel excellently
under con'rol, he o violon ly oxotted durin conversations on this subject
and severely  ri icise: 'he Reich Governnen', vhich according to his
opinion had nmbled aay ts Li est chan e by refusin Jepanese proposals
rern Ger an-Soviot "ra  roche ent" Under she inr luoneo of alcohol
USCIIDA besn o o cactonally co e he  ooin d in hio croism: o Cerman
olicy. Ho ais on emicaly at Je ancce interost in a Gerran-Ruasian
a roosent wms not so puch prompted by the desire te create a unifaed and
practically unasscilabl continental block fror the Pacific to the Atlantic
but e by he ihea thet CGor any would be ahle to throw their utiro
Tar po crtinl n Uhe fi ht a minst En land and Arerica if this a reonent
were re eh d. That and nothiny clee ar Japans intorese.
I.  e  re prkable Shat UchidA repeatodly told ne that his opinion
ropen Joano -Rusao rola bon  chared by all he youn er
Jeon  lote F  he wo-ore  c he youn dioloar or is
on e - uchds   be ahove  yoare old  ho was not convinol o the
pecosey For a clo Joan ce-Ruessan co-operatien ana o  
or  cehe  one o a cloo ondurty and friondly r latsome ep as
a ar of lir ane tonth. The oriuntation of Japan to arde the vost
a  l nichel. Japan as n to confine her politicnl and
ccono te intortnte to Creater Amio orticely, in acroement vath the
Sovia Uo- and a ninrt ne Unitd Statos.
USHIDA  m Ath OSHDu to Baa Gastoin but has noct likely tallon
into Awri an aras aier itn OsnDa. If there chould be ho cver, any
w for UsuiD in th cploatc corvice he vall probably trn u in a
 F pie, o mibly  Una Sttec or En. land.
Aron  youn r plorats, UShDA is definitely one o tho most able
und xpoume o, veryafted, very versetale and swath  horouh penoral
Lmo le, p  in Yr outara nopearance and very Western in his way
of livi vour.
4. DR.CA.
0
he ho as also in charte of one o he hranches
of the cu tuau bepau wn or tho Eabassy. He wns used a lot by OshDs to
procu intor ation Por  hi her circles of Borlin Socicty.
OG  co bolon  io OsnI's atheronts, at any rate athin the Japaneso
Colo ho clnyo too. OSTTW'o .
Ho ever, he di not he OSHIA's
opunimm Po arain  arn. He orod c e coll ce fairly
carly on and, lie Ushlrbs, te  ae o of sheo adlhororts of a der inite pro-
Russan poliey,   poote o a "Ruecophile" c  Ceopor than
they did  UsnIDA. O mr   no a nor1  lomee on He
vas e journal or a lor wd e   philosophy before shet.
Ho raveo the ipr ssion, not wn o or th Japan  inteil etuale, that he
mipht always chane over t no  anreh. ic Ca . Durin diccussions about
Boshevimn he sho l ar extraordinary sne 1  of ali sueutione of orthodox
Marxisa and Loninics, and in those liseus tono his roat adntiration of thoso
idens vns evident. OGA, ho ap aks Gor an alnost as ell as his nother
tongue, vas very pleasant in his boalin  sth Goraan pereonalities and
Authorities, civin the imression thnt he mas alnost a National Socialist
himself. It can hardly be ex ect  at OGA vill continue a diplonatic career.
Ho only got start d in Borlin in the Pirst placo bocause no ordinary officials
could bo procured fro: Tokio otng to dirficulties of transport. OGA hin-
self has littlo desire o ro: ain a diplo at. Ho is noro intorested in
Sucrot Service work, vhich vill probably bo his main intorest in he future.
Ho told no that ho hoped to oporato in Middle and South-Eastorn Europo.
Incidentally I an of the opinion that OGA is one of  o few Japanese who under
/6....

=== Page 504 === (confidence 0.84)
-6-
certain cirounstancos mi ht be propared to work for a Foreign ntall
Servico. Thero is no douht ao to his ability and ucofulnoss in thi 
diroction.
5.KOJTA
Admiral KosDu ae Navni Attache. In cortain rosnccts ho was the mo
ronarkable porconnlity ithin the vhole Erbaaay, a nan with a cultured and
rof inol wy or li, ao a kno  u far above the limits of his military
oducnt on, but  th  ti  "full-blooded" politician, with a rommrkabl
vicion ana quito roa l-nina , thun over-shadovdng OshDa gonerally. His.
point o vi  on au storn or foroin poliy ven rurnrkable. It sprang
Srom  rollovin' Fonntal idoa
Jupan puot c 1 a  w power or ohe Ail not be a powor worth
mont onir. I i meon ivabl. tat she cnn cver achiove surficiontly.
douin tin po ition on  Aaistie Contin nt, without being a first claso
v Po  r. Te, hoever, implius an unavoidablo and
yrly w w or  th th Ure  Statn. Thio antnconiom will
éne y L .It  unevoidable h vy has boen
prparor  r  thie raval policy, honver, is the
noi o L y l co-o rat t th Sovit Union.It is
e  'or Jooar bo  a Fri aly Rura n her rear if her policy in
Petothout risk.Thorefore tho Navy upports
E i oan  Ru . 100 even if it neas loning Manchurda
and KorA    Tavy as convineed of h necensity for
a throrou h ov rircalin   r n-Rumcian rolations and wae pacsionatoly
boekin moh ne. HOJr A dooio Bolshevi sr vehomently Pron the botton
h.  e Ar  Or (here KOJru. reforra to the State
Socielis  eret r os iar  cirel e of the Orficcr's Corps of the
J an Ar ,  art mlar  younr roups of this Corpe). However,
.   J. an -Ru inn vr rt h only uarante or a comparatively
seouro Jarn utur. H.a unip and never rocurrin: chance for
G rean Foroi r phli y to  Jevan an en intormosinry to r ach settlonont
betn Gman end t Sovi  Unirn. In this conn ction Koma stated
o t y oli shoulab harbourod that Japan
  po1   Ru inne throu h he Japanee Aubassador
in Hosco, Sto. (Hr h a lwo  to the faet drich vao well knowm to us,
that sto vhe e oeon  th Reich o miht poesibly sabotago
any wri  appo. ). For vch a  licnte miscion Japaneno policy
he pnate t l le  roore  a th ir dapoo al of whose
rl 6 ry n not  ot noyr r val ho woro tho
pereorals   eor, r, I y. roaeon to beliey. that he had in
pin h: pr vioo For ir Hini st r Yoouke ATsuok, who I know well during
  s ao-,   I mo not ouly n re  th e Havy atitute ns to
tho noo or a cotunroreton bet  n Japan ana tho Soviot Union, but also
hoe  dopinite L oniy tonrde G rnny. Horoover he played ath the idea of
n Gurnn-Ruruinn-Jpen axie cin the il of the Thietiue, a p1 an which
he hee ohviousay  kve p vory thorou hly and studied as roenrds dts
historica preeolorte.  alo to. me onee at Crend A niral TIRpItz had
already onertein the cee ean 1 hl wproached the then Gemmn
(Kniserlicho) Gov rnnt. Tri. de in ly core oponee mith the fnets, as I
ws tole, on onquiry by TRpITz' con-in-l, th Late Gornan Anbacsador in
Rone, Urich von Asa. Durin th tue of hin activitiee in Borlin, it was
KoJry.'a pentont dosire to in' r  to Gurmnn lendin Authoritics in tho
idoa of ontablishin a co: on, conbin a Gerrnn-Japanese coneral staff.
According to his oin ar u unte h had so thin, in mind vinilar to tho British
Epire Gonoral Stafi, or the corbinc tion of the British nnd American Goneral
Staffa. Thio he oxpect to rosult in a fnr noro cificient co-ordination of
tho Gernnn-Japanes iar ffort. Ho ropoatedly stated that thoro oxisted no
collaboration worth :ontionin: botiocn tho Gorran and the Japanoso Army and
Nava? Staffs and thus roat chances offored by the cormon var offort wero left
unoxploited. KOJEA blnned the Gerrnns ontiroly for this lack of collaboration,
ospecially Goorin vhon ho said would corpletcly sabotago all Japanose attempts
for a closor stratoic co-ordination bocnusc of personal antipathy tovards
anything Japanoso. KOJT ofton said bittorly that GOERING liked to rofor to

=== Page 505 === (confidence 0.77)
-7-
tho Japaneso as the "Yollo: Ap a" nd he kne dozons of exnrples how go
ard repponaiblo ron of ho onorai sterf of the Luftwaffo dospisod the
Japenage an?  not rufran fro nirino their low opinion of then. He
further to a oroach t  airece vth thip iden of a Cormon Gonoral Staff
and to nehieve this, he   ve  Forein Office and the Fuhrer's
Hendeuartere to obtn ve th Hitter. This intorviow never
mntorial mod n noi rer Rih n ron, Jodt nor Koiter vore prepared to persuado
She Auhrer to rocoie OJTV. tOJT hs  clf norcover puepeetod that
Anbascador Ost  rpr ma  to e Porein Office and naybe also
to the ory,  the i o prn Ehie interviey wath the Fuhrer, as ho
ante to "roorw" r oe  t For hre lf. Moreover he was
conyee Coca n Jupanose within the
Fuhror'Hen r I lly la e anti-Japmose attitude
of Goornr noer her G or Cew  nr wono orter by Gorman
Inctructional o.or rly  Tochian nischok. Those
offieere ar oenit prpoortere or Chmtin Chine.
A oo eial ro a our ors  o nleyot y tte sarinobaurat in
Se O SAAI.
6. SAKAI.
SAkaI hd alr ay b a an Burlin lor ls yoara and durin this tano had
ainly ne rn renea tiore b n the Jann se Governent and
Corr oort Pr   Aat lane potaatione ith the bis Gorman
Ammn nt r . 1 mon in Gur an industrial cirelus and ho was
nerally mon r   r,  o any al could bo arranged as
Jonh1arAsrnrte intell ence information
hroe 1 or  e Je n In  llo Service, sinco there
aso er Juoonr  coh clos contacteth Goman
inhwe d  n  nourerial n iona .
Ro rpore    piayau n mbedar oxperevas his
runnin a o or Kor : In li  harn 1s to Moscoy which went via
BO
11y ry ldo ane er only very
v1
connees n. Tobo  enyhn ebout ute 1ire exceot SAkaI.
An ooorm   L  1 1  Pro Dern itself and
Duar ednth, oonke porfect
Ruien  orr. T. rPo  con be assuned that
hentzerland
whor t L Loe Ineileeaty SAkAI
dinot o onr t fret he rommined
vath she O  o  O W Atache n Berlin ane then
diseoperr out orw r El of Apat Poly ho vas
amon sha ro or J an O o a to Sden in a salin
honturin  1aayd
coliap
(S md) Wilholn Classon.

=== Page 506 === (confidence 0.99)
SOURCES OF INFORMATION OF THE FAR EASTERN DEPARTMENT
OF THE OKW AND RSHA
1.
Abwehrstelle Shanghai.
A special report has already been made about this branch.
Supplementary details are as follows:-
Information coming fron Shanghai was first of all evaluated by
the Japanese Group (Japangruppe) in the Amt. Mil. of the RSHA-Oberstleu-
tnant (Lt/Col) OHLETZ, Major BAECHTLE and Hauptmann PLAGE. To this
Group also belonged a Fahrenjunker Feldwebel by the name of BRENNsChEIDT
who had a far greater expert knowledge of the subject than all the other.
members of the Group, as he had been a merthant in China for a long time
and thus was able to gain his experience on the spot.
After having been dealt with by this Group of the Amt Mil of the
RSHA the Shanghai reports were distributed to the various interested
Agencies.
2.
Intelligence Informants in Germany:
(i) Admiral Richard FOERSTER, Berlin President of the German-
Japanese Society. FOERSTER had friandly relations with OSHIMA
and also with most of the leading menbers of the Embassy Staff.
He never made written reports about his conversations with the
Japanese; however, from time to time he was visited by repre-
sentatives of all Agencies who were interested in Japanese
questions and hc vwillingly passed on information about anything
he might have learned fron the Japanese. He met Ambassador
OSIIMA comparatively frequently and got to know from him details
about OSIIMA's visits to the Führer's Headquarters. The value
of Intelligencc infonaation derived from FOERSTER was not very
high.
(ii) Assessor TROEMEL. TROEMEL was general secretary of the
German-Japanese Society in BERLIN and thus came frequently into
contact with members of the Japanese Embassy and the Japanese
colony. He was particularly well inforned about the feeling of the
younger members of the Embassy and the Japanese journalists. He
himself was more or less disinterested politically and therefore did
not deliberately collect infomation, nor was he acquinted with
the complicated details of the political conditions in Eastem Asia.
His infornation was therefore of no decisive value.
(iii) Herr ZANDER. ZANDER originally was a book-seller and Publisher;
besides this he was privately used by OSHIMA for writing the German text
of the letters which OSHIMA sent out as answers to invitations, thanks
for.gifts, etc. Thus Z NDER came into close contact with OSHIMA and
naturally used this opportunity to start political conversations. Not
much useful information was gained from these conversations, anyhow
not enough for somebody who was not acquainted with the political
situation in East Asia. The bweka and RSHA regarded Z/NDER as a
"V-Mann" however, not within the East Asia Department but within mt
VI A, which dealt as far as I know with internal German administrative
affairs. Thus I, too, got to know him superficially. He lived in
BERLIN - Nikolassce, I do not know the street. It seems that Z4NDER
was also ordcred by some agency to keep in close ∞ntact with Swiss
jourmalists living in BERLIN, and I presume that this order repres-
ented his main activity as a "V-Mann". ny Eastern siatio information
he produced from
his contact with OSHIMA was neither substantial
nor new.

=== Page 507 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
(iv) Dr. DONiT. DON.T was professor of "Japanology" at
Auslandswissenschaftliohen (forcign-scientific) faoulty of
Berlin University. This faculty was regarded amongst the.
professors of the university as a more or less disguised 
Branch of the SD. Therefore DONAT was also closely oollabox
with the RSH4, whioh aleo provided him with a speoial "East
Institute" where DONAT employed a number of Far Eastem Eixperts
as assistants on the study of scientific subjeots which seemed
worth while evaluating because of their Intelligence Interest.
DONAT also used some foreigners there, amongst them a Dutah
specialist for Duttoh East India questions and also a Russian-
Mongolian expert. The names of these men I cannot remember
now without the help of my notes. DONT himself also partioipated
in thc evaluation of Intelligence subjects. Besides that he
cultivated social contacts with all members of Eastern Lsiatio
Nations who were represented in BERLIN, in particular with Indd-
Chinese students who had come to BERLIN from FRiNCE. At first
his Institute was situated in the Oranienburger Strasse where it
was bombed out last utumn. From there it moved to Marienbad
in BOHEMIA where it renained, as far as I know, till the end of
the war. I do not know what heppened to the members of the
Institute nor to DON'T himself. Presumably they fell into
American hands.
(v) Herr NAKiNISHI. NAKNISHI is a Japanese, married to a German
woman, who before the war owned a prosperous business in Eastem
siatic curios and antiques and who since the beginning of the war
did all sorts of odd jobs for the Embassy. s he was married to a
German, the Sapanese trented him somewhat distantly whioh in tun
resulted in a slightly sensitive attitude towards his own country-
men. This made hin partioularly useful as an informant. NAkANISHI,
who had also worked for a time as a joumalist, is a clever,
versatile, sonewhat enigmatic person thoroughly versed in the more
obsoure qucstions of Eastem siatic policy. He has an abounding
knowledge of lcading Japanose political personalities and was,
therefore, able to cnlarge on infonmation from Eastern Asia because
of his knowledge of the personalities involved. His contact with
the Berlin Embassy was really close; as the Embassy used him
very frequently for difficult jobs (such as dealing with German
authorities who were responsiblc for providing accommodation for
displaced or bombed out Japanese (particularly during the later
days). However, those members of the Embassy, who might have
been able to give intormnal Intelligence information remained always
rather resorved in their attitude, for the reason given above.
NAKANISHI, however, got more information from Japanese journalists
living in BERLIN, a number of whom also had strained relations
with the Embassy, although for different roasons. NAkiNIsHI's
last residence was in BERLIN - GRUNEWALD, Trabenerstrasse 53 or
63.
(vi) "V" Person "ToJA". TOJA was a cover name for a woman whose
real nane I cannot remember without the hehp of my notes. She was
registered as a "V" woman by a city office of the bwehr in BERLIN.
Outwardly she was supposed to be a scientific collaborator of the
Arbeitswissenschaftliohen Instituts der Deutohen Arbeitsfront,
where she perhaps really was enployed in sone cover job. TOJA
mainly dealt with Japanese journalists and with less important
people of the Embassy and she was untiring in produoing terribly
long-winded acoounts about her oonversations in these circles.
Her reports wcre always of no great value and dealt mainly with the
private lives of the Japanese concemed and were therefore mostly
"gossip". I do not know whether TOJA got paid by the Abwehr for

=== Page 508 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
her oollaboration. Judging by the amount of material produged by
her, she must have been busy with it all day, so it oan be assumed
that her activities for the Abwehr office were of a whole time nature
(vii) "V" man "BORIS". This "V" man belonged to referat ROLiND of the
Abwehrstelle in HiBuRG. All I have been able to discover about
him through a third party was that he was a White Russian who had
excellent, connections with the Manohurian Embassy in BERLIN and who
had occasional access to the Japanese Embassy. s a rule he dealt
with the main lines of Japanese Far Eastcrn Polioy. His apprediations
showed a good knowledge of the subject and always contained new views
and ideas. However, DoRIs always refused to disclose his moupoes.'It
scems that BORIS was particularly well suited for spying on various
Agenoics. ny further particulars about his present wheroabouts qan
only bc obtained via Referat ROL/ND of the H4MBURG Abwehr.
(ix) Dr. Otto RICHTER. RICHTER is CESCHAEFTSFUHRER of the Ostasia-
tische Verein in HiMBURG, and had, as such, close conneotions with
Far Eastern merchants in ILMBURG. He was also editor of the Ostasi-
atische Rundschau, and was thus compelled to keep himself informed
about all important current developments in Eastom siatio polioy.
As regard Intclligence infomation, he was mainly required to report
on all cconomic questions connected with Eastern Asia and he was
competent in this subject. Until the end of the war he was in
contact, by code, with German Commerical Firms in Japan and Nanking
China and passed any information gatheredfrom this moume to all
interested Agencies. iny further information about this personality
would have to be obtained f'rom the Japanreferat of the HAMDURG
Abwehr (if there was such a referat) or otherwise from the Vertreter
(gent) of mt VI of the RSHA in HAMMURG, Haupsturmführer Steinert.
3.
 OKW Abhoerdienst (monitoring service) and CHI Department. Material
produoed by this Branch was, at times, quite informative. However,
foreign broadcasts which were listened to by the monitoring service were
not really useful for Intelligence requ.rements and besides they were
surpassed by the rival monitoring service of the Foreign Office ("Seehaus")
whioh was even more extensive. However, the translations of foreign
telegrams and broadcasts produced by the de-cyphering Department were
occasionally extremely valuable. The decyphering Department had some very
expericnced decyphering experts who had succeeded in decyphering the codes
of Foreign igencies in a remarkable number of cases. Thus they knew there:-
The code used by the Turkish mbassador in Chungking to communicate with
Inkara and the code used by the Swiss mbassador in Chungking to communi-
cate with Berne. Therefore the reports of both mbassadors reached
interested gencies in Berlin at the same time as they arrived in inkara
or Beme. The contents of these reports were always very. interesting.
Thoy lways dealt with the relations between Chungking and Moscow, Chungking
and Tokio and occasionally Tokio  nd Moscow, as seen from the Chungking
point of view. In addition to the information already obtained on these
subjects, these reports were of great complementary value.
4. STahMER. Reports by the Foreign Office. 4s a rule these reports
were only meant for strictly confidential use by the Foreign Office but the
more important of them were regularly passed to the Secret Service by the
Chief of the Eastern siatic Department of the Foreign Office, Legationsrat
Dr. K.O. BRAUN. BRAUN was very violently oppOsed to RILBENTROP, and
frequently intended to leave the diplomatic service as a protest against
RIBBENTROP's Eastern Asiatic polioy and to dedicate himself completely and
as a whole time job to Secret Service Work. BR.UN is extremely well versed
in Easten siatio affairs and has very good connections with leading
Japanese ciroles. He had the fll confidence of all the members of all
Eastem siatic missions acredited to BERLIN. He speaks good Japanese and
also has all the good qualities needed for any kind of Seoret Service Work.
Although he is as far as I know, an old Party member since the bgginning of
the Thirties, he has, owing to the developments of recent years and in
partisular under the influence of RIDDENTROP!s personality, completely
drifted away from National Socidism.  BR.UN was not only valuable from the

=== Page 509 === (confidence 0.98)
4
which were jealously guarded by the Foreign Office, but also because of 
great confidence he enjoyed with the members of the Japanese Embassy from
whom ho extracted more information than any other German in BELIN. The
Japanese poured out their hearts to him unreservedly and burdened him with
all their worrics regarding the laok of co-oporation by the german Luthori-
tios. Thus they passed on to him infornation from Tokio whioh judging from
its naturo might possibly have bcen passed on to the German Foreign Minister,
if he had only been will ing to listen to the Japanese and take them serlou ly.
Towards the end of the war, DRiuN was sent to ad Gastein where he had to
look after the Japanese Embassy in his capacity as Ostasionreferent,
therefore he also is likely to have fallen into American hands, but I think
it very probable that the Americans, who are very interested in questions
regarding Far Eastem Policy, will use him as an expert on these matters.
5. Portuguese State P lice. There were occasionally reports via a
Branoh of the RSH in Lisbon which also contained meagre Intelligence
details regarding Far Eastem Questions. This material was supposed to
have been supplied by an gency of the Portuguese Police - I do not know
whether this was on officially agree-upon etchange of material or whether
other channels were used. inyhow, the reports indicated that the
Portugucse Police caployed c V-woman who was also ocoasionally planted
on the Japanese abassador in LISioN, whom she led on to make political
atatuments. This V-woman was a Genion by birth, whose name and alias
I cannot recollect without the help of my notes. However, I remember one
note, according: to which this won had contact with an Officer of the
British Secrut Service whose namd must have been Col. Stribbling or
Stirling or something to that effect and from whom she also got some
renumeration. This was done with the knowledge of the Portuguese Polioe.
hatever infonaation the womon extracted from the Japanese mbassador
It was not very much; it was only ooncerncd in a very limited way with
questions of current policy. No high volue was attached to news from this
source.
6. WLassow - Officers. The Wlassow Anay contained some good experts
on Far Eastern Affairs; in particuler WL..Sso/ himself was well versed in all
questi ns affecting Far Ensturn Policy; and ever since his activity as
advisor to Chiang Kai Shek, he has kept hinself currently well infomed
about these matters. A systematic evaluation of his knowledge for Intelli-
gence purposes has never taken place as' for as I know, and my acquaintance
with him only cane about accidentally while I was attached to the Okw.
However, one of his staff Officers was used by an gency of the RSH
against the priv te Sccretary of abassador oSHIMi with whom he had intimate
relations. She passed to hin a series of reports from the Embassy, some of
which I have seen. They were of no great value.
7. Personal contaots with members of the Japanese Embassy. However the
most productive Intelligence inforantion was produced by close personal
contact with members of the Japanese-Manchurian-Chinese and Thailand Embas-
sies. There the Secret Servicc had good connections at its disposal. I
myself had the best relations with the civilian members of the Japanese
Embassy as well as with the attaches of the Amed forces. Other Verbindung-
sleute (Intermediaries) to these circles and to the Manchurian, Chinese and
Thailand Embassies were:
(a) Herr Juem LEO. (LEO is the sur-name). Lived in Japan
for 15 years and therefore has very good connections with the
Japanese. For several years LEO was Referent in the Far
Eastemn Department of at VI of the RSH

=== Page 510 === (confidence 0.96)
-5-
(b) Dr. Harald Kirfel. A young Japanologist
and Sinologist, who though he had not yet been
to Eastern sia had an expert knowledge regarding
Far Eastern Affairs. Originally he was active
in a Dolmetsoherlchrkompanie (Interpreter
Instruction Company) of the OKH and like myself
he was posted from the OKW to thc RSHA in Lutumn
last year. He was in Bad Gastein at the end.
(o) Dr. KON¿T
Sec above.
(a) Dr. BRiUN

=== Page 511 === (confidence 0.92)
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
DC/R
CONFIDENTIAL
Tokyo, Japan, April 3, 1946
No. 343
SUBJECT:
Political Parties in Japan: Developments During
The Week Ending March 30, 1946
H13
E
Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
sir8
I have the honor to refer to this Office's despatch No.
334, March 27, 1946, and previous, transmitting weekly reports
on political parties in Japan, and to transmit copy of this
Office's latest report "Political Parties in Japan: Develop-
monts During the Week Ending March 30, 1946".
Respectfully yours,
MararBisbo
Max W. Bishop
Foreign Service Officer
Enclosure:
CS
Copy of report
dated April 2, 1946.
Original and hectograph to Department
800
WJSebald: jwb
CF VP Uit
三
fys
R'b
D:
A 291946

=== Page 512 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to despatch No. 343 dated April 3, 1946, frem the
Office of the United States Political Adviser, Tokyo. Jayem.
on the subjeet "Political Parties in Japan: Develepments
During the Week Ending March 30, 1946."
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japan, April 2, 1946
CONPIDENTIAL
POLITICAL PARTIES IN JAPAN: DEVELOPMITS DURING
THE WEEK ENDING MARCH 30, 1946
fummary. Within their capabilities, the various political
parties and their candidates are making an effort to arouse the
interest and enthusiasm of the electorate in their respective
platforms. Despite limitations brought on by shortages of
mterials, difficulties of travel and communications, and r
gulations concerning posters, the tempo of the campaign is is-
creasing in the cities, towns, and villages of Japan. A feeling
of pessimism over the lack of public interest in the electiom
nevertheless pervades various circles. Reasons for this apparent
failure on the part of the people to respond to the freedoms of
discussion, congregation, and voting power may be attributed to
the hardships and inconveniences of daily life, lack of confi-
dence in the parties, leadership, and candidates, fatalism of
the Japanese masses, low levels of political education and
experience of the people, and to some extent, the ineptness
of the parties in arousing public enthusiasm. Taken in combi-
nation, these various factors suggest that abstention of voters
in the coming election will be high, a result which would be
unfortunate and might give rise to an implication that the
initial test of democracy in Japan has failed. The Government
is aware of this danger. If the new Diet is to represent the
choice of the Japanese people as a whole, abstention from
voting must be kept to a minimum. To combat this disinterested-
ness, it may perhaps be desirable for SCAP, through suitable
channels and means, to emphasize the importance of the politi-
cal responsibilities which the people have to assume under
these new freedoms and which must be discharged in the election
and in the new Diet. Somewhat in keeping with the practice of
political parties in other countries, when dealing with such
specific problems as inflation, Governmental finance, unemploy-
ment, and the food shortage, the programs of the major parties
are made up of generalities. In some instances, however,
Japanese parties have exceeded practices elsewhere in showing
an inclination to juggle inconsistencies, to ignore objectivity,
and to confuse or dismiss fundamental issues with political
"mumbo-jumbo". As of March 31, a total of 2,787 candidates
were running in the campaign. End of Summary.
The Blection Campaign
With the election campaign now entering into ite final
phase, the various political parties and their candidates are
making an effort, within their capabilities, to arouse the
interost

=== Page 513 === (confidence 0.98)
2
interest and enthusiasm of the electorate in their respective
platforms. The pattern of campaigning in Japan is tame by com-
parison with similar activities in the United States, because
of the limitations under present conditions imposed on the
parties in Japan by shortages of materials, diffioulties and
expense of travel and communications, and the detailed regala-
tions concerning permissible sises of posters and advertising
matter. There are, nevertheless, an increasing number of
posters bearing the names of candidates and campaign slogans
making their appearance throughout the cities, towns, and
villages of Japan-evidence that the candidates and khegrise-
porters are busily engaged in furthering their causes. Less
obvious, but probably more efficacious in gathering adherents,
are the speaking tours conducted in the provinces by candidates
who thereby hope to popularise themselves with their constitu-
ents. Tours of this nature are usually arranged by a committee
which fixes a rigid schedule of appearances throughout the pre-
fecture, it being not unusual for a candidate to attend as masy
as fifty "meetings" over a period of five or six days. In
addition, the candidate attends the customary private entertain-
ments, such as lunches and dinners, which afford ample opportuaity
for back-stage discussion of campaign problems and strategy.
Despite the activities of the candidates and their support-
ere, however, a feeling of pessimism over the lack of publie
interest in the election campaign appears to pervade Government
circles, politicians, and many thoughtful Japanese. Lack of
enthusiasm for the election among the general populace, par
ticularly in the large cities, is such that the Home and Mdu-
cation Ministries are making an effort to stimulate greater
interest, but as yet with little or no success, and with un-
determined effect on the total vote to be cast.
In searching for underlying reasons for the apparent
failure of the Japanese to respond to their newly-found free-
doms of discussion, congregation, and voting power, the hard-
ships and insonveniences of daily life, including difficulties
of travel and communications, are the chief factors which de-
tract from political activity and interest. Contributory
causes, powerful but less obvious, are (a) a general lack of
confidence in the parties, leadership, and candidates: (b)
the deep-seated fatalism inherently characteristic of the
Japanese masses, accustomed to follow but not to lead; (c)
the low levels of political education and experience of the
people as a whole; and (3) to some extent, the ineptness of
the parties in arousing public enthusiasm for their respective
principles.
Candidates and the Diet
In evaluating the standing and character of the numerous
candidates, even well-informed Japanese observers are all too
apt to dismiss the subject with over-simplifications such as
"all candidates are of low caliber", "all politicians are venal".
or "all candidates are merely new faces masking for old." This
attitude of resignation is difficult to combat, in view of the
suspicions

=== Page 514 === (confidence 0.98)
3
suspicions with which politicians in Japan have been viewed for
many years. It is also apparent that many of the purged peliti-
cal leaders of Japan are generally known or believed to be the
sponsors of substitute candidates now running under the auspices
of a major party label.
Taken in combination, the various factors touched upon above
are giving rise to predictions by competent Japanese observers
that the abetention of voters in the election will be high, and
that the forthcoming Diet may not be chosen by a real mjority
of the people. A growth of this belief, prior to Japan s first
post-hostilities general election, would be unfortunate beomse
of possible implications that the initial test of democracy in
Japan has failed and that the same leaders of the political
parties are still in power in the background. (It is to be
noted that reference is not mede here to the former leaders of
Japan who have been discredited, who have retired, or who have
otherwise disappeared from important political activity. Re-
ference is made merely to important figures in political parties
and in the Diet.)
Aside from the political importance of the forthcoming
general election as a manifestation of political procedure
under American democratization policies in Japan, it is apparent
that the new Diet should, if possible, represent the choice of.
the Japanese people as a whole, a choice which will be imcontestable
only if the rate of abstention from voting is kept to a mimimum.
While it is true that education, time, and greater politieal ex-
perience are the ingredients from which a Japanese democrecy
must be shaped, popular interest might perhaps be inereased by
giving encouragement to the candidates as a class. The stigme
of "low caliber" which has been attached to many candidates has
simultaneously undermined the confidence of the people in the
Diet. Not all candidates are bad, and it is to be hoped that
new leaders of character and competence will arise.
It is believed highly important to take every appropriate
step to combat disinterestedness of the Japanese people in poli-
tical affairs and their innate suspicion and low opinion of
party politicians and party politics as a whole. It might be
especially effective to stress the necessity for every qualified
voter to cast his or her vote. Woman suffrage will in all
likelihood increase considerably the percentage of abstainers
unless efforts to bring women to the polls are successful. In
this connection it would appear helpful and desirable for SCAP
to employ the prestige and influence of the occupation to
emphasise, through suitable channels and means, the importance
of the political responsibilities which the people must assume
under their new freedom and which they must discharge in the
election and in the new Diet. The candidates, also, might well
receive encouragement from a statement that the new Diet will
have sympathetic understanding and assistance of scar, provided
that genuine efforts are made to develop truly democratic prin-
ciples in Japan.
carront

=== Page 515 === (confidence 0.99)
Current Problems and the Parties
Published statements, speeches, and radio talks sponsored
by the political parties generally fail to deal specifically
with the major problems with which the Japanese people are
currently faced. Por the most part, radio talks made by major
party candidates are prepared more for listener appeal than
for the advancement of possible solutions of these problems.
while the talks of minor party and independent candidates are
variously poor, ill-prepared, and heavily weighted on the side
of vituperation against traditional politicians. In overall
propaganda approach, the major parties continue to emphasise
the shortcomings of Government policies to a point where the
Cabinet's prestige and authority is threatened with being
seriously undermined. However, no concrete alternatives are
offered. There is also a pronounced tendency on the part of
party speakers to denounce rival party principles, a healthy
sign were it not for the sterility of the speakers' programs.
Finally, in keeping with the known sentiments of the great
majority of the electorate, the maintenance of the Emperor
system is in most cases propounded as an original party prin-
ciple, despite the fact that the Emperor's retention is favor
ed by all and is no longer a live campaign issue, except for
the Communist Party.
Somewhat in keeping with the practice of political parties
in other countries, the parties' respective attitudes on spe-
cific practical problems generally amount to platitudinous
statements of principles, lacking substance, and generally
further confusing the issue by their contradiction of terms.
Thus, on the important problem of combatting inflation, the
Progressives advocate an adjustment of State revenue and ex-
penditure, but desire generous funde for social and cultural
programs. The Social Democrats, while advocating nationaliza-
tion of leading industries as a check to inflation, fail to
demonstrate that production will be thereby increased. The
Communist plan for an anti-inflation policy is almost entirely
based upon Communistic ideology and would have hope of success
only if Japan as a whole were Communized. All parties advocate
increased food production as one of the methods for halting
inflationary trends yet their suggestions lack practicality or
a objective examination of capabilities.
Governmental financial problems are treated by the
parties in terms of "financial readjustment." Simultaneously,
they propose social and rehabilitation programs complotely at
variance with financial capabilities. Outstanding Government
bonds are recognized in principle by the Progressives and
Liberals, while the Social Democrats and Communists favor can-
cellation of the holdings of large bondholders. Internal war
indemnity payments are advocated by the Progressives and Liberals,
as opposed to cancellation of all indemaification proposed by
the Social Democrats and Communists. The latter two parties
apparently also desire to change Japan's economic order irrespective
of any confusion which might result therefrom.
sovora1

=== Page 516 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
Several parties would solve the unemployment problem by
such methods as the promotion of export industries and the
construction of public works, plans which are somewhat in-
consistent with their advocacy of "financial readjustment" and
rely to some extent upon the principle of giving jobs to end
unemployment. Whether Japan would be financially capable of
supporting large-scale deficit financing is a question which
the parties do not answer.
Various solutions of the serious problems of food produc-
tion and distribution are suggested by the parties. The Pro-
gressives approve of governmental coercive measures but seek
assistance from SCAP. The Liberal Party merely insists that
coercive methods to force farmers to sell their rice are fruit-
less and adds vaguely that in any event, rice is scarce. The
food problem is used by the Social Democrats as an argument for
increasing the membership of the new Japan Farmers' Union, while
the Communists sponsor voluntary offerings for sale of rice
through the Communiet-controlled Farmers' Committees. The
Cooperatives advocate voluntary sales of rice by farmers, but
suggest that no rice is available.
Candidates and the Parties
As of March 3l, the net mumber of candidates continuing
in the campaign showed a decrease of one. Six Liberals and
nine Social Democratic candidates withdrew from the race,
while the number of "independents" increased from 788 to 802.
The respective mumbers of candidates by parties, compared with
those of a week ago, are as follows:
Party
March 24
March 31
Progressive
376
376
Liberal
486
480
Social Domocratic
339
330
Communist
143
143
Cooperative
88
92
Minor Parties
568
564
Independents
788
802
Total
2,788
2,787
William J. Sebald
800
WJSebald: jwb

=== Page 517 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
INCOMING TELEGRAM
1544
ACTION:PE
JSP -S
PLAIN
U
Nosoow via War
A-D
Actionn
A-B
Intorn:...
Dated April 4, 1946
SPA
17946
FE
BA/N
2A
Rec'd 3:28 p.m.
EUR
JA
BUR/X
SEA
SECSTATEY
DC/L
PI
SPD
FC
OIC
1042, Fourth.
OCD
Lengthy editor1als in PRAVDA and RED FLEET, Apr1l
OPI
PL
3rd, express opposition to forthcoming Japanese elec-
CYL
tions.
DCR
PRAVDA editorial by M. Markov, "Pre-election
Maneuvers of Japanese Reaction" contends that over-
X.M.E.
whelming me jority of candidates represent "reactionary
foroes" which though organized in new parties bearing
4.5.46
"democratic" titles have complete spiritual unity,
namely, preservation of Monarchy and struggle against
no did.
"danger of Communism". These parties are subsidised
by monopolistic concerns and receive support of "anti-
popular" Shidehare Government which should be removed
as it is inherently alien to spirit of demooracy and
1s not capable of assuring democratic elections.
Article goes on to state that Rightist forces are
striving to form coalition function of whioh will be
to counteract formation of National Demooretic Front
as proposed by Communist election program. In conclusion,
it cites statement of Wew Zealand representative Berendsen
on Far Eastern Commission that eleotions should be
postponed at least 6 months to give leftist parties
opportunity to "begin educating Japanese people in
democratic spirit"
RED PLEET editorial by Y. Paley, "Japan before
Elections" develops thesis that Fascist Union, dis-
sembled in parties which have assumed democratic titles,
strives to restore fallen Jepanese imperialism and to
deceive Japanese masses and victor nations. It con-
cludes that Shidehere Government is sabotaging demooratise-
tion process and that holding of elections on April l0th
will permit Shidehare and military-industrial group
1946
behind him
PLADN
RERMANENT RECORD COPY: THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R WITH NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN

=== Page 518 === (confidence 0.94)
PLADN
-2-#1042, Fourth from Nosoow via War.
behind him to restere Japan's former structure before
1t can be uprooted by growing democratio foroes of
masses.
Finally Tass NY despatch in most papers cites MY
POST, NY TIMES and DAILY WORKER in reporTs to effeot
that forthcoming elections will not be demooratic.
Sent Dept 1042, repeated Tokyo for AOTPOLAD 14,
and Frankfurt.
NESSAGE UNSIGNED
DO
PLAIN

=== Page 519 === (confidence 0.89)
man Tobeyu
NO.35
ACTION/T
COPIES TO: / DA.
3 0C0
FE/R
FEC(ERD)
7eikis

=== Page 520 === (confidence 0.97)
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japan, Apri1 5. 1906
No. 350
SUBJBOT: Ordinance Governing Certification of Candidates for
House of Representatives
The Officer in Charge has the honor to tranemit copies
in duplicate of a special edition of the Official Gasette
for Jamuiry 30, 1946, which sets forth the procedure for
determination of the eligibility under the saaP directive
of January 4, 1946, of candidates for election to the Mouse
of Representatives. Also enclosed is translation of Meme
Ministry Ordinance No. 2 of January 30, 1946, which appears
as the first item in this edition of the Official Gasette
and promulgates the reguletions set forth.
/4-546
Enclosures:
1. Two copies of Official
Gasette of January 30.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECEIVED
2. Translation of Home Ministry
CS/VJ
Ordinance No. 2.
MAY 2 3 1946
Original and hectograph to Department
OFFICE OF INTELLIGENCE
COLLECTION AND DISSEMINATION
801.3
TLBlakemore: jwb
JU251946
FILED
21
9946   143
894.00
CNC
DOR NE Unit
APR 30 1946 -

=== Page 521 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to despatch No. 350 dated April 5. 1946, frem
the Office of the United States Political Adviser, Tekyo. Jagem.
on the subject "Ordinance Governing Certification of Cendidates
for House of Representatives."
TRANSLATION
(From the Official Gasette, January 30, 1946)
Home Affairs Hinistry Ordinance No. 2
In accordance with the provisions of Imperial Ordinance
No. 542 of 1945, issued in consequence of the acceptance of the
Potedam Declaration, the following provisions are made concern-
ing the certification of eligibility of a person desiring to
become a candidate for election to the House of Representatives.
30th of January, 1946.
MITSUCHI Chuso
Minister of Home Affairs
1. A person who, in the forthcoming general election of
the House of Representatives, desires to announce his candidacy
or to make a nomination (hereafter termed an announcement and
a nomination), in accordance with the provisions of Paragraphs
1 and 2 of Article 67 of the House of Representatives Mection
Law, may request a certification of the Minister of Home
Affaire to the effect that the candidate-to-be is not a
person included under the provisions of the 4th of January
1946 Directive of the Supreme Commander of Allied Powers,
relating to the removal and exclusion of undesirable persons
from public office.
2. A person desiring the certification in the previous
article, should petition immediately the Minister of Home
Affairs through the prefectural Govemer having juriedictien
over the residence of the candidate, accompanying such peti-
tion with four copies of a statement of the personal history
of the candidate-to-be, in accordance with Form 1 appended
bereto.
3. When the Minister of Home Affairs, in consultation
with the Prime Minister, has certified that the candidate-to-
be is not a person affected by the memorandum referred to in
Article l, a written certification, in conformance with form
No. 2 appended hereto shall be dispatched.
If in the statement referred to in the previous article
which is submitted by the candidate-to-be himself, a false
assertion is made or a fact concealed, this certification
shall be null and void.
Supplemental Provision
This ordinance shall become effective on the date of
promulgation.

=== Page 522 === (confidence 0.93)
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVIAN
Tokyo, Japan, April 5, 194.
6 348
SUBJECT: Campaign Literature of the Progressive Party
43
Honorgble
C1
12
R
H
通ri
I have the honor to forward under separate cover a single
complete set of campaign literature prepared by the matiemal
headquarters of the Progressive Party for distribution te ite
recognised candidates in the forthcoming general election.
Limitation of time and personnel has prevented translation of
this voluminous material, but it is believed that it will be
of interest to analytical branches of the Department in
original form. It is understood that ORI has indicated
DC/R
particular desire for its receipt.
From the contents of the material it will be noted that
the headquarters of the Progressive Party has made an attempt
Ay2  1345
to brief its candidates theroughly on the Party's attitudes
on the major current problems: preservation of the "national
REF
polity"; revision of the Constitution; maintenance of public
order; anti-inflation measures; educational reform; and food
supply. Texts of illustrative speeches by representative
Party leaders are furnished as a guide to the candidates; and
detailed instructions and information concerning the opera-
tion of the Election Law are included.
An effort is being made to obtain similar material from
the other major parties.
Respectfully yours,
APR 23 1540
Max W. Biahop
131-23-46
Feseign Service Officer
Accompaniment:
NF Unit
Envelop containing campakgn
9
literatureof Japan Progre
sive Party
Origimal md hectograph to Department
800
WJBobald: jwb

=== Page 523 === (confidence 0.80)
+2
第
兩報二十年動合第五百四十二號一ぶメ人一直言受語二伴七艘入ル命令
入
π
第
女
昭和
2
2
布
4
7
十
日
4
e'4
:41
通
省
六
12
4
推
吴
力
十日
足
17
国
t
A
巴
合
又
4
，
1i
A
2
1
44
案
號外
i
山
9
tn
{*
直
地
力
長
H
n
9
川
楼
式
纸
y
非
4
人
儿
看
4
附
日
x
T
法
七
件なノ通定ム
昭和二十一年一月三十日
n
大
儿
卜
11
口
13
第
4
7
内稱大臣二貝
v
八
y
酒
交
卜
父
2
7
八第
1.
求
儿
2
12
A
i
スル件二基ク家属院
候
2
者
2
三七
A
规
5
2
儿
4
中
35
七
4
定
=
出造
儿
22
っ記
π
者
QUESTIONNAIRE
六
五、各記敵事項中該常事項十キ騎合八談當七人父八一護當事項無一等ノ字句ッ用ヒ記入之置
四、各記載事項八空白備之殘廿ル様正補二日良心的二記
This Questionnaire shall be submitted in four
ルカマ
記
記顧事項八楷貴 英文編合八大文字活字體以明臨三記
ノトス日英剛女間二於方相違丁ル場合八英文二ハル
書面記載ハ日文及英文二丁作成スルモノトン
寝面八四通作成上提出スペ
（記載上ノ一般的注意）
cople.
2. This Q t nnaire shall te fi led out in both
明
Japanese at Eoghisn and tme Enghish version
is collate w the Japanese on the opposite
page. The Figh-h version will prevail if dis-
crepancie- exit between it and the Japanese
version
3.
Answers nust be entered clearly in block letters.
助紙二談夕
4.
Every que-ton must be answered precisely and
conscientiouslhs and no space is to be left blank.
5.
If the question is inapplicable. so indicate by
some appropriate word or phrase such as "none"
or "not : pplicable".
6.
Add supplementary sheets if there is not enough
八
space in the Questionnaire. In this case, re-
1
ference must be made in the space by some
=3
出
appropriate word such as "continued to supple-
H
助
英文記
面
mentary sheet".
ヲ
入
川
載本項八之卜反對買八日文照
ヒ
何
2
人
ルッ
教関ノ神助紙トンテ
八ル云

=== Page 524 === (confidence 0.77)
3.
A. PEBSONAL
1
7L
1. Name:
7
a
7
半
出
從父八一通用
氏
2
3
Oter  you e d or 
Date of B.rtt.
you have been iwn
(S..)
(Fs  M  )
本
17
又
WA
一
2
r
11
6.
27
3
八
3.
2
S
2
y
2
理
1.
11
一
1
y
2
1
“
2
船
t
1
7
一
4
イ個人的事現
4
Place
州
5. Pres 
山
1n
6. Permare:: a.:
en f)
7. List anytr whee been arre
etgeewtherearthereand
any erines of wa en you have been covated
8.
Rehee d wher v dee
t tile ahta d ca tary or where vou
are gong to mmnle for can may
B. CHRONOLOGICAL RECORD OF EMPLOY-
力
小二頁
MENT AND MILULARY SERVICE
π
八
1
9. In thepaew. ehrno g
2
11
of our epomeap
tions wen yhe sire 1 J 
n
40
2..
八
li
11
4
193 1n ep ethr pveren
1.
11
mi tary s be ure to gve all  the
7
23
4
一
3
[11
2)
ranks w ny. at a inave he
1
又
i
7
1
1:
e
2
2
1
42
*
17
八
à
y
2
4x
5
5

=== Page 525 === (confidence 0.73)
C. MEMBERSHIP IN ORGANIZATIONS
一○、大寶會賀政治會父八大日
加
10
In the spave te repurt whe er r por v
コト有無文具照
各會本部父八郡通府縣支部會
wee a memberzar zer
(日)
n
RAA
AP
(2)
一一、社交、政治、軍事、愛國、敬藥、
第四頁
a
sttatrr. w: ether
、、、
文化、名譽、僧舟、其仙諸國
4
地
orgaratn t whetv
diter of any

=== Page 526 === (confidence 0.67)
12
Hasany
12
一二、封
地
ハ曜位う占メ其性勢力フ白ン
子中一○一一所揚諸團鐘
宗（父母、配偶者兄弟師妹生
brother
位
hed omroor
二
lted a
tnwneg
姓
(2)
13
wthmene
第六頁
lst and ge deteds con
正規會費外一
noney or poer' w vo hve mrte.
directev of1 o
（記載項目)
made beoraeron or legat
norur
71
tnor
5
○211
1代
八
2
八

=== Page 527 === (confidence 0.75)
14
Haey 
第七
ra memoniao
fr
○
E
(目)
and t.. reon.
7
y
4
(2
D. RFCORD OF OTHER SERVICE
第入夏
15.
with exee
1ト
1
五
、
mentonenSe
口
7.
他
4
项
(記目)
17
4
11
4
r项
A
Y.
其
+5
41
1
人
1
央官
1u
2
5
i1.
C
11
外
a
g2
(b)
A  of a kind you have 
 1 Ja . in ay  .
至自在
Pre. la nfrement peac protecton.
年年
o intlligenee organization or in any
月月期
man coened with Protection
HHM
anS crd of tght.
re.rdy
Frm Te Namean
DateD:es
e
類名八
ment
稀额位最占
f
-f.
五
vice
请地右
日ハノ

=== Page 528 === (confidence 0.75)
E. WRITINGS AND SPEF HED
一六閏和六年一月
16
Listparater
  f  
twhwe
<
(I)
or conple
42
1
rox:mate
m
4
11
(2)
出版物父八
第一〇貞
With
17
中
H
11
11
H1
5
2
73
扶人名
2
數
地
图
位

=== Page 529 === (confidence 0.77)
G. REMARKS
第一二
(明)
(2)
naire are trae un
entries. nor tail re to
4
S.5.1!
月
()
Date:
(数目)
七

=== Page 530 === (confidence 0.80)
heeonve from
ty t Potrtap. Declaration.
pefm
f to p rt a peacefully
rpwbe gowern-
A
1.1
tet care must be
of
à
 olicials who
二
trvandreng
5Te
tendecis
a e Japane peopde and who
ec. re
K、
a
ng
tepr.
rountmen
i.
narow
pnment
·
x
i ,
a
w
e
Rem masperpone
GE NERAL HE ADOL ARTERS
nd1oar
CPRI 40 COMOMANDER 1O D0
toetemo
AL1ED POWERS
otp Lpm ar ned
eomp theateor to
A
7
ofthis
dWhe theastrtnee is
AL
to longer abeolurels requited they
PAPPEE OAEDDNET
t
w dised The names of
n
cuchtviduals. trer positions. the
in
 fo their dequalthration, and
nne
the teaon for their temporary re
Phe
eg
me
n on wil oromptly be reporud to
fina dismissal will also promptly bu
this Headquarters The tume of thei-
erenorst tatet tor all
n of
m
eT di
tepoted.
a Appendix "A" containa a lt
me the auther afence o
Presdent
wer from her ne putte oftire sha
of the categories of persons who
mase whe nave deeeed and misled
V Pre e tor, Advisor
e connued u he prove ons of
must be removed from public oon
the neop e of Lupan unt em arking
end A
the Potsdam Declaration quoed in
and emohuded drom povernment ser
on wordd conquet for we insist that
4 The tem vernment ser-
naragrapt 1 have been fulflled in
v by the Imperial Japane
a new or der of nes e. security. and
vice as uset n the-de te shall
Janan
Government in order to carry 
justice will be impo, ible until irre-
mean and indde al! pos tions in
7 The mere removal of officials
the provisions of paragraph 2 of
sponstble mlltarism is ir ven trom
the central Jap ese and Prefoctural
from publx ofére and she erclusion
this directive. Pensens lncluded in
the world
Government an a'l of their
from government service of those
the categories listed in Appemde
2. In onder to carry out this pro-
agencles and loca branches, bureaus
persons descrined herein wih not be
"A" shall be removed frompablue
viston of the Potsdam Declaration.
(inc'uding Regional Administrative
sufficient to ostablish the new order
the Imperta! Japanese Government
Bureaus) and offices and all pos-
of peace, security and justice en-
—•

=== Page 531 === (confidence 0.77)
v
luded rom government service
en h of it M.m-tr es or other ap-
bers with an dentifyinr svimiol for
called for by paragria ph 11. This
However if the Imper.i Japanese
pro; mate agecee t prepare and
ea l Minstry or oth er agency. will
Headquartere mey direct revéee
Governnent represents the in onder
dtrbute to a incumbents of
beas gned to ach Questuomnaire
of ny of these Plans tf they are
to cary on indisrn p'e pencefu
po. der n paragraoh
an. Record Cara ehng there
n considered adeguate
executive activities ef suc govern
a tu' rre aophcants for gov.
1
C A weekly rapert od
nent the temporary reirstatement of
eewhchre
4 in order that the forthcom
into meruons for the fole 
an individua so removed is essen-
perequestonnaire
e ron mal provide full or
cinpetence of cach Muasstry r
1
lal and that  s mpe e to oh-
edn A rnx B Such
v fo' demx. atc elemente
ollirr agency showing
 à ote ree a ap
bereve
obain me bersh m the
 Touml niunaber cof poumitians
plicatior so sto rz sined y à
en
1 Diet dene r durng
wilm lthui iees are lo be Ln
respn of the Toperia!
tlears of Japans
1ted
Lapanese lovetnr ent om be filed
verendua
sandaeand in or
 Numbe ane type ol poat
withthHeduee
ier dented
de to cl munaterom the
 intengated previously and
at on shel cocta n à statement
eomlawith
he intluet ce of hose whe nave de
ung he curren: wek
the namerapo
reand tee
13 Vumber of persons r
rebltles ef thed tha
h other a
Ja an into en barking on world con-
e or demed empjoyment qut.
nvea the re
irnrejtae
qrpe on ho coDe th
 curenveek
sons whe su. temoorary re nstate
innde
(4) Nan es :oks positiona.
mes regardel as esenn he
0
peAe drquslhed
an Quesuonnaire numbers of
apmested period of tomporary re
andatevelec
pet ons removed or denied em-
tatement and  fforts made to
10
t e impet Diet Atict et.
r during the current
ontan à sitable  pement Such
son hall be d qua  ed troma:d
uen
aptbenane
n
ing at an tme as  cand late to
lu Im Headquarlere wál pro
aprmaire cesribed
n
Pretecr al  AertV
l. apectkme and investira
Dateow Nu
Cass tn wd f
à city ASt Aiso n perse
tu Decesar lo hek compaunoe
toreratement w he
stermer
shall be reneved rrom utrde
u  tus directive. and the domperial
affed t the iera Joe
etoretems
f r ex iude tm a nt
Ja anese Government will rebder
agenathciate an
the House of Peers The Imwal
antae rgured for the
asedsprovatn
n tantenoval or re
 anese Governmett  all t
mnking of wuch inspotiona and la
P
nt.
rea o enforce this d.sgant-
vergation Action laken by the
n Ta werpn tat the
Lactr provide for
cat on ot candudate for electv of
Japanese Governinent with respect
serv clearsed of
upied 
toe ut luhng the psuaner of meres
to removal or denial of employrm
nlesrte personret the fo towing
aduph
sa regalatens. the pubhcation of
ant with res, ect to disqualihcation
wnwol be taken
 set f co Qusire
disqualhfivatton categor es prepared
candidates tor clec ve ocr wi
T1meJG
wibeprove a e Headquar-
in confur mity herewnth and the ger-
 revewed and ma e reversed by
teotca
to aton by e candidate that he
is not thereht drqual hed trom
thes Headquariers.
ageneto emove trom e
for nspeen or n a i the
stomang tor clecton A compre
17 W'ilfut falstcation of op 
Cons deribed n pe agranh 
hensive report of the messur
ure to make full and commplete 
whe wthin mpe ence.
 n de n to e Quesion
pocel to be adopted will le turn shi-
Losures in any Qumlra repore
any esons wn the records
na te en M or other agency
ed to tos Headparte
or Avolicaion provided er l 
show  who ore kllown to have
wner
17 The Impermal Japanese Gov
drcuve will be panisable by s
beerun the categotes liste
aloma  fi of Questionnane
ernabent will make he totw ng e
Supreme Commander ter the Allledd
in Apendix A  Qresto
ReCadtantialin the
port- to this Hea lquarters (n Eng-
Powers as a videtten of  Bur.
nare fsee be e wl e ovain-
form mrlhated  Append.x "C"
lish. in triplheate
reier Terms. la aticm, the m
ed frommv to
ava for section or removal
a Reports required by par
perl Jse  
fore he a no fhed of his disis l
by ti. Headquarters. The cards
graphs 8 and-14 hereaf.
make any prevem mmary t
b. In addition. the Imperia!
will be fhed onr n English (also in
hb. An initial report of the Plan
provide dequaep
Jan se Gosemem w strut
Jananese if desire). Identical num-
of ach Munisiry or other agency
Japa ee ct  er S

=== Page 532 === (confidence 0.95)
10
1. Member of:
Board of Fieet Admirals
mationalletic, Terreristic or
opent 
and will undertake
and Field Marshals
Secret Patrietic Secicties.
as may be re
Supreme Military Council
Any person who has at any
Any persen whot
Iniperial General Hoadquar-
time:
between 7 Juiy s087 
sé the general pro.
ters
1. Been a founder, officer, or
Mrective covering all
Army and Navy General
director of; or
positions listed below
the keadquarters has
Staffs
2. Occupied any post of autho-
Chairman' of the Beend
Supreme Counell for Direc-
rity in; or
tore, President, Vle
mmay make more restrive
tion of the War
3. Been an editor of any pub-
2. Commissioned officer in the
lication or organ of; or
of the following or,  t
Imperial Japaness Regular Army
4. Made substantial voluntary
or Navy or in the Special Volunteer
contributions (a sum or property
forces since 7 July 1987, manager e
and suberdinates
Reserve.
the value of which is large in
branch of:
Japanese Govern-
3. Commissioned or'non-com.
itself or large in proportion to the
South Manchurian Raflway Com
the terms of this
missioned offcer, enlisted man or
means of the individual in ques-
peny
civilian employee who served in
tion) to any of the organizations
Manchuria Development Comp
bebeld paraonally respon-
or with the Military Police
or their branches, subsidiaries,
North China Development 
y accounteble for
(Kempei-Tai) or Naval police,
agencies, or affiliates (other than
pany
wi and adherence to
the TOKUMU KIKAN, KAIGUN
the organizations referred to in
Central China Develepment Come
leter of this directive.
TOKUMU BU, or other special or
paragraph D below) described in
pany
secret intelligence or mlitary or
the Memorandum to the Japanese
Southern Development 
naval prlice organizations.
Government on "Abolition of
Taiwan Develepement Com
Certain Political Parties, Associa-
H. W. ALLEN,
appointed since 2 September
4. Mimistry of War (unless
tions and Societies" AG 091 (4
velopment Cempasy
Colonel, A.G.D.
1945)
Jan 46) GS.
Nanyo Development Co
As Adjutant General.
Minister
D. Persems Infuential in the Acti-
Oriental Development C
Permanent Vice-Minister
.vitles of IRRA, IRAPS, and the
Wartime Financs Bank
Parliamentary Vice-Minister
Poltitica! Association ef Great
United Funds Bank
A—Removal and Exclu-
Parliamentary Councillor
Japan.
Southern Deval
Chief Secretary
Any person who has at any
Overiens Funde
B-Questionnaire.
All civilian offícials of the
time:
C-Questionnaire Rec-
civil service rank of Chekunin,
1. Been a founder or national
or. above, or who occupy posi-
officer, a national director, national
tions normally held by per.
committes chairman, or a leading
sons of such rank.
official of a prelectural or metre
5. Minlstey af the Navy (un-
politm subdivialen of; or
less appointed since 2 Sep-
2. Been as tditor of any publl-
tember 1945)

=== Page 533 === (confidence 0.79)
F. Governors oi Occupied Terr
9 Chun
TQ
12 1 any instanc when yo
tortes
Athe Nank ng Pap
rutJapeen
lav pwen arresued. together with th
Jaes ae
e
tphere or, and any crimes
thesed
A
 have been convicted:
10 Manchuhuo
1. Koren
L As
1.
.
Af
i..
 Ce Service ran
2. 01
arrade held
1
B CHROVOLOGLGAL RROORD
11
OF LPLOMO NT AND
kuantung
1
MOARY SERVICE
F1
 yourn
ofthe of
parthepos
4
5
1
held
porng
S
…
11
Sherland Indies
A
A PERSONU
1
14
f Ma
ar
!
w
1 MEMBERSHIP LA
ORGAMIZATIONS
Mrwor of S
(Surrne)
..
T. French Indot hons
orogz
da
anamal othte
Tee  o Pce
anven
nameave
pemetropollta
Inrecter of Burer of General
menJasepr
n wyou have been
mf the Imperia Ru
w
Ance As ation. the Imperl
Ars
swbs
4B
Pat'e As stasce Pol tical Soclety. 
Pinareol C  dAGures
Limseo be ana ve expe
5 Pace of burh
te Pol tcal Asxiation of Gre
8 Burma:
meorarr ratorake and aggressron
6 Heigt
Jupan Repor aleo whether or n
Avber to the Bumese Ad-
(APPENDIX )
7 Weight
vou a ted as editor for any publica
ministra
QUESTIONNAIRE
8cars. mark deformities:
tior any of theme ameciatons 
Cuef to he Politral Affair
(0) asionai mum-
9 Present addres
orpmanined snv branches or specit
Dopartmeo' the Japane
her
(n full)
art tes for any of thom: .
M.litary Administration
(to be astigned by
10. Permanent lesidens
Chief of the Inernal Affairs
Ministry or othe
…
Department of the Central
A p propriate
(In full)
Administration
agency)
11. Idenuty card type & number..
1
11

=== Page 534 === (confidence 0.81)
111
16) In the space below, report
testimon. ds or otner bosors from
a tous or fale or incom
my other party, assoctation, soclety,
any of the raruzatons? If
Salement
crimunal
fra ernity. club. union. instutution.
so, sate the  the toror. the
o pro
whetr el. political military.
date conf, 1 an! the reason
patrote, pro esetonal, cultural, ho-
E. WRITINGS ND SPLTOHES
Dment
norarv. athletic or otherwive. of
1
whicth you are or wer a member
fmdvidualwhom
Make thus report weer or vor
D RECORD OF OTHER SERVICE
1
(e Questuonnatre re)
""y w  State wrther
of tev
11.10
or not you ere  foder or or
havepe meel m S-
(otheation of Sersice Haperior
gror d or p ed an.
t This cerutication
ptnor
Co) Ae umpaid 
s ed by the sery e su-
mntzionp herv have
botothority or
ldte
toter re ponsitle official)
e an arf of ts pub
01
...
tru1e 1 Jm
of the
ar
rupub-
e
 the tce o appl cants for
of ce  bn of pubhc offire.
Mtr era Govern
ArfnN
Heat wee sponsor
po of be the offcal respon-
edits
se ( emplov p e appicant
mentrereentave
17Hasanv
of he Teera! Rule Atance A
namenneca
I cerify that the above is the
fonly held office rum or ost of
soc Ie Rle A
on
true nane and ge ure of the in-
authority. or beer e f
taPl S. the Political
F CORPORATE POSITIONS
dividual concened and that with
tal in any of the opsbed
A f Gr Jan or ther
? W Pe xen of te
the exeptions noted belou. the
agnate.dessor or
an werx made or ps Questionnaire
atove? If so give m rame and
vor  sea mentioned
a ue to the bet of mv now
address his re' tor hm to yes ad
CAanknd yu
aboe 1 v corpeorate director
edge and bedhe and the information
a de erptron of the positior w
have ee! se 1 January
shpe ar eve ve pos ons held by
avahae t me
he ehd and o? the org nzaton
pmh. e. law
vou  1 Jan ary and where
Imexception
enforremet peace prortection, or
you ved whether in Jatan pro
wenone
per  outsude of Japan
orion or in any
Copration
Wtht eerof toror
gaz ccered witn Pro
Poston Hrd
memberste aes. bst ard vae de
tna Suelce and con-
ay
troi of thht speech. religion. or
Date-
or roperty which you have me
dvembly
Signed
directly or ndirecths to any of 
Frop
Official Position 
orgarzations listed prove urg
T
Date
any comution me an
No Ty e of Organization
(APPENDIX "C)
natural or juridie n o ga
G. REMARKS
QUENTIONNAIRE RRD CAD
ontity on your ug
Questionnaire No..
your sol  rat
NAME
Highet otlke or Rank you hald
(Surname)
or Type of vour service
Date of Appontment to highest
(Firm and Middle Name)
19. Have you ever been the reci-
office or rank 
The stalements on this Question-
piont of any titles. ranks. modals.
Du 
maime ary true and I understand that

=== Page 535 === (confidence 0.73)
Position which a irant holds r
for whier be  unier o deration
th  Servee G
mor of pent pons of
、
Remeverprom poon
11
men
rd
4
ー
1A
A
E
ehe
n
、
1+
andund
tthe
a
oent oferivreual e
11M

=== Page 536 === (confidence 0.69)
1円
一六本司合部へ本損令・基守セうし居ん十
一時
2
45
2
2
2 1x
1
4
i
記
∴4
一四史四舉二於日本民十十的
分事岡的國家十親之後
本帝國政府風史及下最員八本指
今精神及文句謂本及達守二付調人約
後得光分・て興會・興ノん間及日本國民
月暖格二貴任っ負フ・キモノトス
查上其結果及其也政府知得夕
最高司合官二代
九一切事項二基キ本指合規定從
サンメタル者ノ弱力ヲ新調會ミリ験去スん
否セッレタル宿ノ姓名、階歌、唯位度
3F

=== Page 537 === (confidence 0.71)
3
8
2
二
7
2
3
4
C4
天
14
2
1
1.
いい
昭 入 
三
x
、五
=01

=== Page 538 === (confidence 0.67)
外昭四二十一年一月三十日 大理日
1y
…
外ち事頃う列
外
二
n、
2
2
4
王
月口
1.11

=== Page 539 === (confidence 0.91)
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
DUn
Tokyo, Japan, April 5, 1946
No. 351
FILE
SUBJECT:
Campaign Literature of the Liberal Party
11946
The Officer in Charge has the honor to refer to this
Office'e despatch No. 348, April 5, 1946, and to forward
under separate cover a single complete set of campaign
literature prepared by the national headquarters of the
Liberal Party for distribution to its recognised candidates
in the forthcoming general election.
Accompaniment:
Envelop containing campaign
literature of Liberal Party
Original and hectograph to Department
DEp
WJSebald:jwb
STATE
800
JUL 26 1946
DIVISION OF BIDGRAPHIC
INIELLIGENCE
DEMTENGIATE
19  43
RECOR AGH
DCR NF Un1t
RECEVED
ina
DEC -U 1946
FLLD
Dist
MAY 2 4 19
A

=== Page 540 === (confidence 0.89)
894.00
4-546
THE BONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STAT
WASHINGTON D.C
Accompanimeut to lespaten No. l dated
Apri:fre fficefhe
United states roliticel Advioer, Pokye,
pan,  the ubject "Sampaign Litere
tare of the Literal Party

=== Page 541 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 542 === (confidence 0.76)
自由黨立篇宣言義
立宜言
O
セントシタ巨歩ヲ進メッッアル此ノ秋ェ際ッチ、日本ハ漂謝ェ重ノ出
明ッ 君民一如ノ國家陰持シう再生發晨ノ大衆ヲ底就ッ以優募平
セネパナラスハデアル。
親う思フ二、明治維新ノ五箇條ノ御誓文八我國、民主歌治ノ指導原理トシク
本國家二永遠ノ生命ヲ與へ居ル然ル二近時國内ノ親紀全夕慶レ一部ノ武人護力
うニシ、官僚之ニ便乗シナ獨善ヲ擅ニシ、意政ノ大道素レク輔弼其ノ道ヲ失フ之が為
永遺ノ國是八誤ラレ遠二列強ノ輕悔ヲ招ク二至ッ夕今十新生日本ノ發程當基本
的ニシス且ッ普通的ナルペキ信條ハ盧僞ヲ去ッチ眞實ニ就キ、态意ヲ却クラ公論タ爾ピ
潔ク裔來ノ陋習ヲ打破ンチ、正義ト自由トノ生活ヲ貴充スパコトデアル。
吾人同志ガ國家再生ノ道二進ム二當ッチハ平等ノ人權ヲ章重ッチ機會ノ均ヲ圓
政治特權階殺ノ手ョり國民ノ手二移ッ、以民生發展ン道ヲ拓そい個人ノ創意刃尋發
産業經濟ノ自由活動ヲ助長シ世界ノ寶易二盎加シ列國卜其ノ天惠ヲ願乎以う蘭民
ノ生活水準ヲ高ムルコトガ、喫緊ノ要諦デアル然モ其ノ根底ハ拔本書源ノ教學改華！
斷行デアル卽チ蘇來ノ軍國主義的民族獨善的劉一形式的教育ヲ一掃シラ平和愛好
ノ自由ナル人格完成ヲ圗ルコトガ、其ノ根本條件デアル。
蓋政治、經濟、產業、教育、信教、動勞其ノ他諸殺二自由民主ノ体制職立シ
民ノ願社ヲ增進シ、互敬友厚ノ協調外交ヲ促進シテ世界ノ共存共榮ブ金國スハ素
吾人ガ年來堅持七ル主張二シテ之ガ實現二八完全ナル立憲貴任政治ノ確立ヲ期七も
ナラヌ若シ夫レ各殺ノ具體的政策ニ至リチハ順次之ヲ發表シ遠二其ノ公約ヲ守ラン
スルモノデアル。
今十國家空前ノ危機二立テ違ク歴史ヲ回想シ、面ノアタリ悲痛ナル現實ヲ直視ッ遞
二邦家將來ヲ慮レパ悲絕痛絶切々ノ情二堪へズ玆二吾人同志天下二撒シ日本自
由黨ヲ結成シ、謙盧自ラ持シ公明事二任ジ、國民ト共二生キ、國民ト共二死スルノ覺語ヲ
以經國ノ計ヲ講ジ、國家再建ノ道二勵ミ以ラ世界ノ進運二貫献センコトヲ期スル所以
デアル。
網題
一自主的二ポッダム宜言ヲ實践シ章國主義的要棄ヲ根絕シ世界ノ通義二則ッ夕新
日本ノ建設ッ期ス
二國體護持民主的責任政治體制ヲ確立ツ、學問、藝術、教育、信教自由三
う、思想、言論、行動ノ暢達ヲ期ス
三財政強固二ッ自由ナ～經濟活動ヲ促進シ、農工商各産業再建ッ國民經濟ノ
充實ヲ期ス
國政治道德社會道義昂揚之國民生活明朗期
五、人權ッ尊靈ッ、詩人ノ地位ヲ向上シ、盛二社會歌策ヲ行ヒ生活ノ安定幸福ッ期
日本自由

=== Page 543 === (confidence 0.86)
日本自由黨緊急政策（昭和二十年十一月）
第一外交
一、泰國一張國際價義ノ恢復二努メ、遠二國際聯合二參加スん二必要十ん各紋ノ指置う勝人ルコ卜
二人シキ二亙ん對支政策ノ通誤う提本的二匡正スルコト
第二政治
一、圖體う護持シ、責任政治體制ノ確立う目的トスル意法ノ改正ッ行フコト
二貴業兩院ノ制度う改革シ衆識院ノ權能擴張シテ政治ノ中福機闘タラシムルコト
三兩院二常置委員設置シ、議會閉會中ト雖モ識會ノ種能う發揮スル二遺條ナキヲ期スルコ卜
四、選舉法っ改正シテ婦人參政權ノ實施、年輪ノ低下公營ノ擴充期シ官憲ノ干涉う排除シ羅拳棒
行使ラシチ自由ナラシムルコト
五、人權ノ尊重卜自由ノ保障トチ明力三スルタメ速二關係法令ノ改廢う行フコト
第三行
政
一、官僚主義ヲ打破シ、能率本位ヲ目的トシテ現行官吏制度二根本的改革ヲ斷行スルコト
二、官吏ノ大縮減ヲ斷行シ且官吏ノ待遇ヲ改善スルコト
三、官吏ノ任用制度ヲ改正シテ人物採用ノ途ヲ自由ニスルコト
四、知事ノ公選う實施スルコト
五、能率本位ヲ目的トシテ自治制ノ根本的刷新ヲ圖リ其ノ本義ヲ明カニスルコト
六、地方自治體ノ事務う整理シ其ノ簡素化圖ルコト
第四財政金融
悪性ィンフレーション發生ヲ絕對ニ回避スルタメ急速ニ左ノ措置ラトルコト
（1）軍需會社二對スル政府補價金ノ凍結
戰時公貞八支拂期限延長並二利子ノ引下ゲ
官有財產並二官業小口分割拂下ゲ二ョル適度ノ通貨吸收
（士）公債公募主義へ八復歸
(5）通貨發行高制限制へノ復師
（6）恩給制度ノ改革
（7）行政費ノ徹底的制減
(x）國民生活必需品特 食糧增產並入
二戰時二生起セル租稅負擔ノ不公平ヲ是正スルタメ急速二左ノ措置ヲ卜ルゴ卜
（1）稅務官署刷新充實三依儿財產竝二所得八再調查
（）右ノ調査=基ク課税ノ公平化
第五經濟產業
一必要止ムヲ得ザル自主的統制ノ外一切ノ統制っ全腹シ自由經濟ヲ復活シテ圓民ノ生産活動う促
スルタメ左ノ措置ラトルコト
（1）國家總動員法竝ニンレニ基キテ發セラレタル諸法令ノ急速撤廢
（？）木材統制法ノ卽時撒廢
（3）經濟警察制度八廢止
二國際貿易へ八急速十ル參加期シ蠶絲識維製品工藝品工業等輪出産業ノ培養二努ムルコ卜
三輕工業ノ復興ヲ期スル卜共二之二必要十儿重工業八振興
四中小商工業ノ育成
第六文教思想
一偏狭固陋ナル國家思想ヲ除シテ君民一體ノ日本的民主思想ヲ確立シ更二廣ク世界ノ文化ヲ吸收ス
ル卜共三深ク東亞文化ノ歷史的發達ヲ檢討シ東西文明ノ融合ヲ圖ルコト之ガタメ國立文化研究所ヲ設
置スルコト
二大學令ヲ改正シ、學問ノ自由獨立ヲ確保シ且大學ノ講座ヲ開放スルコト
三、高等學校竝二大學豫科三年制度二中等學校五年制度卜シ國民學校二地方的特色加味スルコ
四、劉一教育強制教育ヲ一掃シ教授教員ノ獨創的知見ヲ尊重シテ、青少年ノ個性完成ヲ教育ノ本領下ス
ルコト
五、社會教育擴充シテ常置的二各地方二通俗講座ヲ設ケ公民知議ト公民道德トチ普及スルコト
六官私學校チ一切平等トシ官民兩界ヲ通ジテ學閥ヲ打破スルコト
七教育者ノ名譽的物質的待遇チ向上シ又官立學校教授教員ノ官吏タルコトヲ撤廢スルコト
八宗教藝術二對スル官憲ノ干涉う拼除スルコト
九、健全ナル運動競技ヲ普及シチ圓民ノ調練ト體位ノ向上トラ圓ルコト
一〇健全ニシテ品位アル誤樂ノ普及う圖ルコト
第七食糧農林水產
一、新文化基調ノ國土計畫樹立シ職災坤復興竝二治山刹水政策、道路港灣政策大規模二實施入人コ

=== Page 544 === (confidence 0.82)
晨山通村ッ通シ各道ノ國家施院ッ普及シ村文化地ェ村生話ノ向上う期ス
三、開盤、開田、干拓、耕坤整理等農坤ノ開發計臺離立シ、圓変以大親棋二之ッ貴施ス
國農地制座ノ改普う促進シ、遠二自作農施改ノ損充及小作料ノ適正化う期スルコト
五有畜農業ノ普及並二飼料施設ノ鎖充圖食糧及農畜變品ノ增產期スルコ卜
大、肥料及農機具等生産諸資材ノ製産施設う鎖充シ、之力供給確保ノ指置う勝ズルコト
自由寶買ヲ認ムルコト
八、未利用喪派活用ノ施設普及シ極力食糧補填ノ方途う講ズルコト
九必要量ノ外米等穀類ノ輪入二最善ノ指置講シ速ニ之力實施期スルコト
一○生果物、鮮魚介類等生鮮食料品ノ官治統制卽時撤廢シ生產ノ增強う圖ルコト
一一漁鉛ノ建造、漁港及船溜ノ新修築漁業用生産資材ノ確保供給二付格段ノ措量ジ、水産物ノ編
的增産ヲ圖ルコト
一二、蠶赫業ノ立地的普及ヲ樊勵シ生線ノ離出增進期スルコト
一三、農業技術水準ノ高度化及機械化農業技術ノ普及圖ルコ卜
一四自由主義ヲ基調トシテ農林漁業團體ノ革新再建っ斷行スルコト
第八勞働社會
一勞働ノ神聖ヲ維持シ勞働者ノ地位向上ト保護發展期スルタメ勞働ノ法的地位確認シ勞備條件
ヲ故善シ以テ勤勞精神ノ充貴ヲ岡ルコトハ喫緊ノ急務ナリ依テ左ノ諸件ヲ急施スルコト
（1）勞勸組合法八確立
（圖體協約法ノ制定
（）勞勸爭議調停機關八改正整備
（4）婦人少年勞動者ノ保護
（う）工場勞動者ノ師農授助
（）産業經營二對ス儿從業者勞働者ノ地位設定
（）勞働者教育ノ確立對及
二明朗活潑ナル勤勞ヲ姓重シ且勤勞者ノ地位ヲ保障スルコ卜八目下ノ急務ナリ依テ左ノ社會立法制定卜
諸對策トラ急施スルコト
（1）失業保險法ノ制定
（）養老年金制八採用
(）健康保險法八整備
（4）農業保險制度八改善擴充
醫察施設ノ民業化
（）戰傷病者、職病者遺族提聽施跋
（7軍人軍屬徵用工員八復員後八授職
（）在外同胞（軍官民）八急速師遺卜其ノ授護
（）戦災者住宅間題ノ急遠解決
（10）載災地ノ應急整備
第九婦
人
婦人參政權附與卜共二婦人二對スル左ノ諸政策ヲ實施スルコ卜
1男女就學八機會均等並二男女共學制
（）婦人ヲ拘求セル法律制度ノ改廢
（婦人二對スル政治教育ノ應急施設
（4）婦人二對スル家庭教育ノ整備
(5）家庭經濟卜政治卜ノ直結
（じ）母性乳幼兒二對ス九保護並二其ノ普及
（）婦人勤勞者二對ス九貞操保護ノ完全十ル施設
第一○戰爭責任者
職爭貢任者亚二職爭二便乘シテ恣意ヲ働キ若ク八軍官卜結托シテ不當ノ利得ヲ爲シタル者ノ貴任亂明
途う開キ政治ノ革新卜國民生活ノ斎正ヲ期スルコト之カタメ職後特別裁判所設量スルコト
日本自由黨
本部東京都總町區丸ノ内三丁目八番地
電話丸八内（第）九一九二六五八書

=== Page 545 === (confidence 0.81)
日本自由黨の諸政策
内○意法改正要新○食證票對策要親○敗験意及基住インフレ
○企業再建緊念對策要網
○憲法改正要綱昭二一二
一天
皇
一、統治權八主體八日本國家十
二天豊八統治補ノ純麗者ナリ
三天皇八萬貴一系十
四天皇八法律上及政治上ノ貴任十
二 所謂大權事項
左ノ各項其ノ他天皇ノ名於テスル國務八練チ國務大臣ノ輔弼依ん
一法律ノ裁可及公布
二、議會八召集開會、閉會、停會及衆識院ノ解散
三、官吏ノ任免
四外交
五、榮典ノ授興
六恩赦
tof
（註）現行憲法於ケん緊急命令執行命令獨立命令制定ノ大權官制犬樓統帥大種編制大權
大橋非常大権ハ之ヲ腹止ス
三國民八植利
一思想言論信教畢問務術ノ自由へ法律ヲ以テスルモ猥り之ヲ制張スルコトヲ得ス
二營業及勤勞ノ自由ハ法律ヲ以テスル非ザレパ之ヲ制限スルコトヲ得ス
三私有財産及正堂ナル生活ノ安定ヲ保障ス
0
四
一、議會ハ立法ノ府シテ同時ェ行政ヲ監督スル樓關トス
二、凡ソ法規八講會ノ立法（法律）=依ルヲ原則卜ス
三第一院ヲ衆講院第二院ヲ參臨院トシ其ノ組織ハ共法律以チ之ヲ定ム
四、參議院八學識經驗ノ活用卜政治恒定ノ機關卜ス
五、衆議院ガ第一院トシチ參議院對スル優越性ヲ認ムルコト概ネ左ノ如ッ
（イ）衆議院ノ陳算先議權ノ強化
（ロ參議院ガ衆議院ヲ通過シタル講案ヲ修正若ハ否決シタルトキハ之ヲ衆議院ノ再議附シ三分ノ二以上ノ
敷ヲ以テ再ヒ之ヲ可決シタルトキハ多議院ノ修正若へ否決ハ其ノ效力ヲ失フ之ト剛聯シテ衆講院ヲ通編
タル議案ノ參講院於ケル審識期間ヲ制限ス
（八參議院ノ内閣不信任上奏若八決議ヲ禁止ス
六、議會閉會中各院每二常貴委員會ッ設ケ臨時識會ヲ召集スル暇ナキトキ此ノ委員會ヲシデ緊念命令代ル時
式立法其ノ他議會ノ樓限ヲ會定的ェ代行七シム
七、議會八直接ニ行政各部及國民ト交涉スルコトヲ得
五國務大巨及內閣
一國務大臣及内閣ニ關シテ八憲法揚グルモノヲ除クノ外法律ヲ以テ其ノ基本的事項ヲ定ム
二國務大臣ノ首班夕九内閣總理大臣ノ、他ノ國務大臣二對スル地位ノ便越ヲ明確ス
三、國務大臣ノ講會二對スル貴任ヲ明確=ス
四內閣ノ制度ヲ憲法中規定之內閣二執行命令獨立命令其ノ他ノ命令制定權ヲ認ム
六樞密顧問
樞密顧問ノ制度へ之ヲ腹止ス
七裁判所及會計檢査院
一、司法横ノ獨立ヲ強化ッ、大審院長ヲ天墓直隷セシム
二大審院長ノ下級裁判所對スル獨立ノ監督權ヲ確立ス
三別檢察庫ヲ設ケ司法大臣ノ下ク
四、行政裁判制度腹止ッ之ヲ司法幾判所移管ッ且行政訴訟事項ヲ鎖大ス
五會計檢査院長天皇二直隷七ッム
六大審院長及會計檢査院長ノ任命パ議會ノ議決ヲ經ルコトヲ要ス
八憲法改正
憲法改正ノ發案横八議會モ之ヲ認ム
○食糧緊急對策要綱四二二四費
地せる食着同題の勝決が親下凡ゆる経済節のお盤を爲し目之に先行すべき緊間題なるとと
に村てはい十単米の事精に歴み真留約事貴に彼り食後の先行き不安特に絶耐不足に動する不

=== Page 546 === (confidence 0.83)
ール
二國大臣ノ首クん門開線理大臣ノ、他ノ圓務大臣二謝スル地世！論識
三國務大臣ノ鑑會對スル貴任ヲ明職ス
四門閣制度ッ意法中規定、内閣執行命令、獨立命令、其ノ他ノ命令制定備器
六福密顧間
福密願問ノ制度へ之ヲ腹止ス
七義判所及會計檢査院
一、司法横ノ獨立ヲ強化シ、大審院長ヲ天墓二直隷七シム
二大審院長ノ下級義判所對スル獨立ノ監督植ヲ確立ス
三、別ェ檢察應ッ設ケ司法大臣ノ下置ク
四、行政裁判制度ヲ廢止シ之ヲ司法裁判所移管シ旦行政訴訟事項ヲ鎖大ス
五會計檢杏院長ツ天皇二直隸七シム
六大審長及會計檢査院長ノ任命パ路會ノ議決ヲ經ルコトヲ要ス
八憲法ノ改正
憲法改正ノ發案權八議會モ之ヲ認ム
○食糧緊急對策要綱昭二三四
一、緊迫せる食糧問題の解決が現下凡ゆる經濟施策の基盤を爲し且之に先行すべき緊念間題なるとと
二之が解決策に付ては二十年産米の事情に鑑み具體的事貴に依り食ねの先行き不安特に紹對量不足に謝する不安と
解消一國民に安心感を與ふること
三施策の遂行に當り務めて強権の發動を避くるとと
を前提とし急速にた配對策の貴行を促進せんとす。
配
１、資金資材原料勞力、輸送力等の重點使用の決定。
食緊意對策途行の爲必要なる責金、資材、原料、勞力、離送力等に付ては政府は闘係方面の諒解と協力を得て
優先的に之が使用を決定し直に實行に移すこと
２い需給推算上の絶對不足量の輸人。
二十年産米の實收狀況に艦み供給量の不足は飽迄も之を転入に依て補墳し、國民の不安を解消するの要あるを以
て、速に聯合同側の諒解を得、輸入の實行に付許可を得ること、尙此の場合輪入業務の實際は民間商社の滑動に
待つとととし適當なる機構を新設するとと
8、供出米制度の改善。
供出米成頼不良の現況に鑑み之が根本改革を必要とするも食ね危機に在る今日直に之が改愛を行ふととは更に漏
亂を生するの惧れあるを以て感意對策として一應現在の供出制度を認め、之が促進を期する言速に左の慮量を勝
すること
イ）農家に對する供出割當數量を減額して大體小作米として收納する數量程度とし供出米の買上げ慣格は
り五百圓程度とするとと
（口）供出完了後の農家手持の米に付ては自由販変を認め其の販賣は生産地府縣に正米市場を設け之を通じて
買でしむるとと、従て若し供出割當数量の買入のみに依ては都市等に於ける基準配給数量を充し得さる場会
其い数量に付では政府亦之を正米市場を通じて買取るものとするとと
4、二重似格制の創設。
供出米買入價格の引上げ及自由取引市場の設定等に依り一時的た生活困難を來すべを動勞者年收五千圖以下
世帯の所要數量に付ては販変價格を一升二圓五拾錢以下とし、其の他の者に動する所要數量に付ては政府の
入價格に一定歩合を加算したる價格を以て販賣すること
5、配給制度の改善
（イ）政府の責任に屬する基準配給量の範圍に於て前記二重價格制度を採用するの外、國民生活必冊品工業及之
に闘郡する基礎産業等に從事する者に對し重點配給を爲すこと
（口）配給機構に付ては根本的に考究を要するも、生産地に於ける蒐荷、配給販賣の機闘としては農業會等の
機構を活用し都會地に於ける末端配給所の機構は、必要ある場合は、地域的又は職場的消費組合を結成せし
めて之が管理下に留くか又は現配給所の人的物的設備を消費組合内に移すとと
6農業經營用品の製造工業及國民生活必需物資生産工業の再建。
肥料、農機具、農難藥劑作業衣、地下足絞等の農業經營用品並に農家の生活必需物賁を確實に且嚴領化入手せ
しむるととは米麥等の増産及之が供出を促進する上に絶對必要録件たるに鑑み、速に之等物資の生産工業の再
を期する爲緊念に左の虚置を採るとと
（イ）之等物資の製造工場の新設、復舊若は補修又は之が運轉等の為に要する責金原料、資材又は勞力等を
、先的に敵地配格又は買入の授助を爲すとと
（ロ）必要ある揚合は之等工場に謝し食糧の時別醜給を爲すとと
（へ）之等工場製品の領格に付ては飲府及消費者側に於て痛當なる曲量と取引上痛當なる考識を拂はしむるた
？、交通通信の鉴備充實。
交通通信の破鎖が食器品の偏在と不當なる同慣格の上昇を誘發し、為に食種品の公平なる配分を間ゆる置
ふ食職新気の途行に對しは絵刃の直點使用を認むるの外政府は交通通信の余細に耳り之が復書と塞

=== Page 547 === (confidence 0.84)
す水産食品の暗係。
るの要あるに艦み歌府は素念に左の此量を採るとと
イ）漁獲物の増加を目標とし沿岸激業、近海漁、授船底曳網漁業卜口ール漁菜等に不可狭かる為
の建造、補修等に要する資金、書材、勞力並に之節漁業の運營に必要なる貢油、遣油、食糧事に付て
的に且特別の考慮を拂ひ之が供給を聽保すること
（）機給底曳網漁業及卜口１ル漁業に付ては現下の食糧事情水産物の審殖情況並に漁鉛線行事の親歌事
勘案し聯合國側其の他關係方面の諒解を得て其の操業海面の雙更、禁止區城の殺和等を爲すとと
○敗戰處理及惡性インーシヨン緊急對策要綱
（昭二二二五發）
我は、風に敗戦応理並に復興の爲、現に多くの財産を有する者又は戦争彼害の少なかりし者が、特に多くの負
をなすべきものなりとい信念をもい従っい未會有い戦禍を利せる財産増加の如き、断じて之を放し得さるや
論無きととうない加ふるに問民結済を崩壊より救ひ、健全なる國家財政を再建するが爲には、今日以上の通貨の
張は之を阻止するい必安きるのみならす、富の喪失に表裏して山積せるた大なる國家債務を現狀のまへに放任するを
得す。此の趣旨に於我黨い敗戦魔理並に悪性インフレーションへの緊急對策婚綱を決定するとと左の如し
第一、生活必語品特に食糧の増産並に輸入への格段の努力。
インフレの悪性化を防ぐには通貨面よりの對策のみを以てしては不充分にして、それにも増して重要なるは生話
必需、特に食種の供給を確保するととなり
（說明は別項食糧緊急對策要綱並に企業再建緊念對策要綱に讓る）
第二二
1、通貨發行高制限への即時復歸。
今日の如く毎日一俺圓乃至二催圓にも及ぶ通貨膨張の狀況を持顔しつへィンフレの悪性化を防止することは絶謝
に不可能なるを以て少くとも今日以上に通貨を膨張せしむるととは萬難を排して回避せさるべからすと思料す
2、新公債發行の停止。
、公債の元利拂の延期。
インフレの悪性化を防止すべを當面至上の要動に恵する爲には、新公債の發行を停止するは勿論、従来の右大
る公僕の元利拂を棟くるととをも亦断然之を証期するととは真に已むを待さるところなり。
4、軍冊會社並に外地財産に動する政府補賀の凍結。
5、戦爭利得に對する特別課税。
6、十萬圓以上の財産を有するものに謝する「圓民連帯税」の創数、似し戦災を数りたる者並に戦歿者の貴書に謝
しては発税點及親事の上に相當の考意をなす
7、官事務の基理による行政費の徹底的削減並に思給制度の根本的改革。
第三、最爭利得に對する特別課税並に國民連帶稅の收入は國民生活の安定、産業の再建職災復興失業對策の為
經費に光當す。
○企業再建緊急對策要綱昭二二二五發表
遠に企業の再建方覚を樹立し、産業貴本家に對しては企業の嚮ふべき途を明示して欣然生産増強に精進せしめ、従
員勞務者に對しては之が職場を痛保して失業對覚の一助たらしめ、以て国民生活に必要なる物資の急速増産を期する
は民生安定上喫緊の要務なるのみならず又以て悪性ィンフレ防止の爲、積極的且不可缺の對策なり。之が為我黨の採
らんとする實行方賛の要綱概ね左の如し。
一、速に國民生活安定上必要なる物資の生産工業並に之に調聯する账礎産業の種類及規模を決定し、之を再建すべき
企業として明示するとと。
二、右に依り決定したる企業に對しては、之が再建に必要なる工場設備、機械設備等の補修又は新設に付、貴金、責
材勇力、輸送力等を優先的に使用せしむるとと
三既存の車譜工業其の他職時緊要工業に使用せる工場設備、機械設備、勞力、資材等は、右決定に基く諸産業に
轉用し、光分に其の数用を發揮せしむる様鹿置するとと。
四、存の軍冊工業其他職時素要工業に使用せる工場設備等の用に際し、之等軍需工業等の企業が負婚せる債務の
清算に付ては別途講理する方策を樹立し工場設備等は新企業再建の爲、速に使用せしむる様處置するとと。
五、再建すべき企業に付ては、其の企業主慢に對し金融機闘をして戦時中に於ける債横債務の魔理狀況の如何を間は
す積極的に設備責金、運轉賞金の敵通を為さしむるとと。
六、之等再遺金業の製品慣格に付て、米便を基準とする新物價水準に比例して一定價格を協定せしめ、其の便格を以
て償ひ得さる生産費に謝しては国家が補償かるとと。
七急連再建を要すべを企業の種類は遠に官民一體の企業再意委員會を設置し、興論に稽み大局的見地に立ちて之が
順位と意親を決定するとと。
(Q上)
日和二十一年二月日本自由黨本部
東京都趙町區丸八內三丁目八卷
電話丸ノ内（8）七一七〇香、二六五八

=== Page 548 === (confidence 0.84)
鳩山總裁挨拶
昭和二十年十一月九日日比
谷公會堂黨結成大會二於う
有ツテ居リマス。其ノ政黨ノ練裁ニ選任セラレタル光榮ニ感激シ退ィチ其ノ貴任ノ重大ナルヲ思へパ
二職慄ヲ覺へルノデアリマス。何卒黨員諸君ノ熱烈ナル御授助ヲ仰そ國家再生發長ノ大業ヲ過チナ夕湯
出來マス様切ニ神願ヒ致シマス。
デアル。國ハ民ヲ以テ本トシ民ハ食ヲ以テ本トス民ノ本ラナス食精ヲ充タスニアラザレパ到底恩想ノ體
全ヤ人格ノ向上ヤ熱心ナル勞働等ヲ望ムコトハ出來ナイ、否、民ノ本デアル食糧ノ不足ヲ若シ此ノ體
二シ飢餓線上二國民ヲサラスナラパ不證ノ思想ハ全國二漲リ遂二燎原ノ火ノ如ク日本ヲ饒キ盡スデア
ウ食糧ノ不安ヲ取除ク事ハ實＝國家第一ノ急務デアリマス。
食糧ノ不安ハ如何ニシテ取除キ得ルカ。此ノ問題ハ現在ノ不安ヲ如何ニシチ取除夕カノ問題ト將來ノ食
糧ノ確保ヲ如何ニスルカノニッニ分ツ必要ガアル。當面ノ問題トシテハ米ノ種入デアル。コレハマッ角ー
サー司令部デモ既ニ承知デアル併シ之ニハ前提ガアリマス即チ日本國民ガ真底カラ平和ヲ愛好ッ晟主
主義的二切替へタ卜ノ信用ガ前捉デアル。次二明年度以降八先ッ肥料ノ增産農具ノ製造卜失業者為員
ヨル開墾トニョリ不足分ハ同ジク輸入二待ツコレハ政治ニョリ解決出來ん、即チ吾ノ主張スル民主
政治ガ解決スル故二政治ノ良否ハ今ャ抽象論十御題目デハナク、直接食糧問題トモ結プ重大問題ナノぞ
アリマスっ
戰災地復興モ亦焦眉ノ問題デアルガ今日焦眉ノ問題八其ノ他=モ山積テ居り只今茲デ申述プル餘裕ヲモ
チマセン。
三最近ノラジオノ特色八共産主義ノ宜傳デアル、アメリカ司令部ガ非人道的ニ壓迫サレタル共産主義者ヲ一
齊二解放シ之二意見發表ノ機會ヲ與へタコト八軍國日本ヲ平和日本二急速二切替へントスル主旨二出デク
ルモノトシテ之ヲ涼トシマス併ン日ホノ民業ハ政治約義驗・ハ馴レチ居ーマセン故社會聞爭二ン如
ツチ居ル共産黨ガ國民ノ良心ヲ捧取スルトイフ危險ガ充分ニアリマス。政府當局ハ此ノ點三留意スルト共
二吾ハ大イニ共産主義ノ絕對不當ナルコトヲ鼓ヲ鳴ラシテ攻メネパナリマセン。
共産主義ガ天皇制廢止ヲ目標トシプロレタリアートノ獨裁政治ヲ目的トシ又私有財産制ヲ否定スルコ
トハコレヲ言明スルト否ト二拘ハラズ明白ナ事實デアル外國ノ共産黨本部ハ天皇制教止ヲ表面！制
除ッ人民戰線トィフ美名ノ下ニ目的ヲ達成スペシト指令シタトノ尊ガアル吾ハ此ノ共産黨ノカムフラ
ージ迷彩僞裝ニ迷ハサレテハナラナイ天皇ガ日本ヲ統治シ給フト云フコトハ日本國民ノ血肉トナッチ
キル信念デ茲ニ何モ述プル必要ハアリマセン說明ハ反ツテ冒漬トモ感ゼラレマス。併シ日本ニハ今欄
手ガアリマスカラ一言致シマス。
社會的構成ノ點ョリ我國八族長的國家ノ典型的ナモノ一大家族的集團デアリマス社會形態ノ理想
八家族二求メラル茲二八全體卜個體權威卜自由命令卜服從本能卜理性、道德卜經濟卜ガ光全
二調和一致シテキマス家族的國家ハ此ノ強味ガアリマス其ノ中心ガ天皇デアル天皇制ヲ失へパ
其ノ中心ヲ失ヒマス
2國民性中二見ラルル政治生活上ノ缺陷二對スル民救ヲ考へネパナラヌ。
日本人ハ天才的ナ可受性卜熱狂性トヲ有ッ而シテ横力欲卜權力へノ官從性トヲ有ツ、獨裁政治ノ危
險ヲ胎ムト共二野心家ガ多數野二下ル場合アナーキー二墮七シムル可能性ヲ多分包藏ス、故對
立國爭ノ上ニ超然クル地位ヲ占ムル天皇ノ存在ガ此ノ缺陷ヲ匡救スル。
共産主義ガ光福ニ於ラプロレタリアートノ獨裁政治ニ發展スルコトハ疑ヲ容レザル所デアッテ而シテ此ノ
3
プロレタリアートノ獨裁政治ハデモクラシートハ絶對反對ノ立場ニアルモノデアル、言論ノ自由モ出版ノ
自由モ結社ノ自由モナィノデアル又私有財産制ノ廢止へ人間ノ本性ト全ク反スルモノデアル又私有財
rmp.r
産制度八家族制度ノ維持＝不可映ナ條件デコレハ自然的原理デアル。吾ハ此ノ三ッノモノ即チ天豊制
ノ護持プロレタリアート獨裁政治ノ排報並ニ私有財産制ノ維持ノクメ死力ヲ盡ナネパナラ之ニ敗レ
ンカ日本八精神的ニモ亦形式的ニモ地球上ョリ抹殺チルルコトヲ茲二斷言スル
圓吾等ガ政治上ノ自由ヲ國民八手二取戾之 十年間ノ暗黒世界ノ桎梏ヨり脫テ 明九イ世ノ中自由談
自由書キ自由生キルコトヲ主張スル卜共二經濟上ノ自由モ亦國民ノ手二取庚スペシト主張シ層ん
コトへ既ッ諸君ノョク卿承知ノコトデアリマス。
聖治上ノ自由ッ就テへ吾等ノ多年ノ主張小態度トヲ諸君八龍ク御承知下ッレテ居ルコトト思フ今日へ
開ガナイカう改メテ申上ゲマセン。只一言如何ニ軍ノ一部ガ横暴ヲナシタルカュ付違プ可シ。

=== Page 549 === (confidence 0.82)
。
一會シテ言へパ支那事變以來ノ所謂統制經濟ノ方式ヲ全度シテ自由經終ノ調ヲ復治
へ之ヲ經濟道德ノ昂揚ト財政政策社命政策ノ實施ニヨツテ是正セントスルモノデアリマス
經濟ニョリチ貧言ノ懸隔ヲ來タシタル場合ハソレヲ殺和スル爲メ、税調ノ改革トカ醫療誤業ノ大
ノ苦イ經驗ニヨッテ國民自身ガ誰ヨリモョク知ツテ居ル所デアル吾ハ民主義政治ノ經濟約
由經濟十リ卜ノ確信ノ下二社命主義的計畫經濟二反對之國民經濟ノ安定卜進步ノ為三健全ナ～離
復ト経濟活動自由ノ實現トヲ期スルモノデアリマス。
五東條内閣員ハ引致サレタ軍部ハ解體シタ官僚陣そ亦心アル者八詳職ッタ然ル二出鷹龜ヲ最
正ュナスペキ政治家、貴任ヲ最モ敏感二ナスペキ政治家ガ東條二隨伴ッ東條二迎合シ天下二積行シ
ヲ忘レ俄カ二變裝シテ白々シク議行其ノ他ニ於テ軍部ト官僚トヲ攻撃スル態度ハ員ニニガニガンキ誤
チアル。新日本ノ發程當リ基本的ニシテ且ツ普過的ナルペキ信條ハ廬僞ヲ去ツテ眞賞ニツキ悉意ヲ卿
チ公論ッ尙プコトデアル。
須ク東條内閣ト表裏一體トナッ夕連中ノ幹部ニシテ、特二彼ノ官選々舉ノ元締トナツタ人ャへ潔夕公職
選キ今次選舉三ハ出馬ヲ遠慮シ貴任ヲ明ラカニ七ザルペカラズ實三新日本ノ建設八日本全體ノ自已
始マル政治家トシテ指導的立場二立ッテ官選舉ヲ計畫シ東條蕪ヲ作ツク諸君八何故痛烈ナル
賓ヲナサザル力祖國ノ政治八最早諸君ノ玩弁二委スコト八出來ナイ。
本質ヲナス自由卜權利トヲ尊重スル。自由主義ハ人格主義ノ別名ニ外ナラナィ。自由ト放縱卜へ金夕調
デアル、自由主義ハ勝手氣僅三爲シテョイト云フ主義デハナィ天地ノ公道ト良心ノ命令二從ツテ爲ッ
ル主義デアルフランス革命ハ自山ノ名ニ依ツテ凡ュル犯罪ヲ犯ックコレハ自由主義者ヲ僞獲セル暴力
彈壓獨裁デアッタ自由主義ハ人格主義デアル、國民ハオ互二各自ノ人格ヲ尊重スルオ互二各自ノ會論
ヲ尊重スル自由ノ言論ヲ欲スル者ハ他人ノ言論ヲ尊重セネパナラヌ。放肆邪私ノ言論ハ斷ジナ自由ノ言
論デハナイ。吾ハ英岡ノ議會ノ如クオ互二言論ヲ尊重スル議會ヲ日本二作ッタイト念願スル。政麻反
黨タル保守黨ガ第一次勞働黨内閣ノ蔽相フイリツプスノーテンノ演說ヲ賞護シタ如キ議會ヲ日本＝モ親へ
シタイト念願スル議會パカリデハナィ選舉場裡於テモ亦街頭ニ於テモ斯カル風景ガ現出スルナラ
パ必ス日本ハ再生スル。フエアプレーノ精神ハスポーツノ根底ヲナスノミデハナィ致治ノ誤底ヲモナス
選舉權ヲ行使スル姉人ハ甚シク少ィデアラウト胃フ者モアルソウデアルカモ知レス併シ乍ラ婦人ノ一
部シテモ其ノ目醍メタルモノガ自已ノ體驗ェ基キ減ハ自巳ノ理想ニヨリ致治ニ發言スルコトハソレ
ケ國家ノ利益ナリト首ハナクテハナラス茹人ニ問ヒタイアナタ方ハ現在ノ食糧ノ聞給ニ滿足シテキル
カ家庭ノ改良二或八職場ノ改革二何等ノ意見ハナイ力、機械視サレ劣等視サレテモ不滿へナイカ婦人
ハ母トシテ最モ神聖ニシテ貴重ナル貴任ヲ社命ニ對シテ負フモノデアル卑屈ナル母ハ決シラ寬容シラ
偉大ナル子ヲ育テルコトハ出來ナィ虚僞ノ母ハ決シラ誠實ニシテ勤勉ノ子ヲ育テルコトハ出來ナィッ
レヲ考へ革新セントスル意志ハ卽チ政治的闘心デアル政治ガ今日程婦人ニトツテ身近ナ間題トナッ
クコトハ仲テナィノデアリマス。民主々義的政治ハ人格ノ政治デアル、婦人ノ向上ハ極メテ重大ナ問題ナ
ノデアルソノ爲＝参政横ガ認メラレタノデアリマス、婦人ハ今ャ自ラノ途ヲ拓キ家庭ヲ良クスル爲職場
ヲ良クスル爲ノ鍵ヲ持ッタノデアル粗末ニハ出來又所以デアリマス一揖リノむすびヲ欲シテ政種ノ
駄興フ欲セス話ヲ聞イタ、現在一握リノ飯ノ貴重ナルコトハ吾等モョク之レヲ知ル、ソレモ與へラレネパ
ナラス併シ同時ニ參政權賦與ガ將來ノ日本ニ如何ニ大切デアルカモ亦悟ラナクテハナラスノデアル。目
前ノ食ヲ取ルト共ニ永久ノ食ヲ確保スルコトハ貼人ノ目醒メタル横利ノ獲得デアリマス。
安ヲ抱イテ米米ト叫ピ、共産黨ハ天皇制ノ打倒ッ叫ンデ居ル又掠奪ヲ示喉ッ暴力革命ヲ示喉シタト聞ィ
ク。日本へ断崖ノ危機ニ立ッテ居ル興亡ノ岐路＝立ッテ居ルノデアル。此ノ危機ヲ教拾スル敢治力が絶
對必要デアル。若ッ危授ヲ收拾スル政治力無ク第一次大最後ノ詞慈ノ如ク動ッ次ッ泰動獄ラシ

=== Page 550 === (confidence 0.93)
Emergency Policies of Japan Liberal Party
(Noverber, 1945)
A. Foreign Policy
4. atchiaon #6o
B. Politics.
c. Administration.
D. Finance.
E. Economy and Industry.
F. Educasion, Culture, ant Chought.
u. Food-—-Agrienltare, porestry, an1 marine Industry.
H. Lavor and svetal L Lstasion.
I. omen.
J. r Cri inals.

=== Page 551 === (confidence 0.78)
gu
ti6
ele
Par5
選舉事發二閑又事頂
一帳簿及書類備何
一投票立會人開票立會人
一候補者供託金
當選皆知三度四日日十日以内二承諾通知三十又二卜
票開雲德理者二屆出四上分傳
有權者一人曰本人承諸得于選舉期日前二百返三後
廳選舉廳屆出卜
期日公布又告示下日夕曰選與舉期日前七日二地
一人二付貳千門又八元二相當國債供紀局一洪紀
心得
六
十一
