894.421 Education. Correspondence Schools., Japan, Academic., November 21, 1949 - November 22, 1949 (File 1790)
ID: 894.421-1790   Pages: 7   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.421-education-correspondence-schools
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.98)
NA
JOSEPH C. GREW
2840 WOODLAND DRIVE
WASHINGTON 8, D.C.
23
November 21, 1949

Dear Walt:

For your files I enclose a copy of an open letter that I am sending today to Mr. Seiji Hishida of the Foreign Affairs Association of Japan for publication in the Christmas issue of CONTEMPORARY JAPAN, prepared at the invitation of Mr. Hishida and Miss Uno, the editor. If you should find anything of an undesirable nature in the letter and will let me know promptly, there will be time to make alterations before publication.

Sincerely yours,

Hon. W. Walton Butterworth
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.

Enclosure: Article

122654

=== Page 2 === (confidence 1.00)
November 21, 1949

To all our Friends in Japan:

At this Christmas season and at the eve of the New Year, it is a special pleasure to Mrs. Grew and myself to send a message of greetings and good wishes to all our friends in Japan.

We are particularly happy to be able to note the steady progress that has been made during the past year toward the social and economic stabilization of Japan and the continued and increased good will between the people of North America and your countrymen. To all of you who have worked and are working toward these goals, we wish to express our keen gratification.

During the past few months we have had an unusual opportunity to observe and assess the attitudes of some of our leading citizens in respect to Japan. I have, as you may know, accepted the national chairmanship of the campaign to raise an important fund in the United States and Canada for the International Christian University in Japan. In this capacity I have been in touch with a number of outstanding men and women whom our Committee is seeking to enlist as the Sponsors and active leaders in this undertaking. At this early stage, the response of those whom we have asked to support this university project has been magnificent. It is indicative, I believe, of the consensus of the American people that your country is worthy of our sincere and thoughtful cooperation in such endeavors as aim at your social and economic rehabilitation.

I might quote half a hundred letters from our leaders, but I will confine myself to one excerpt from a letter of a man whose sincerity and public spirit are unrivaled, Fleet Admiral C. W. Nimitz:

=== Page 3 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-

"I know of no better way in which to bring to the Japanese people the enlightenment on spiritual and moral values and education as we know it than through the offices of the International Christian University. These are requisites in leading the Japanese toward the desired goal of a free and democratic form of government.

"It is my firm belief that the International Christian University of Japan, a non-sectarian organization, is most deserving and worthy of the support, spiritual, moral and financial, of freedom-loving people throughout the world."

When the American people fully comprehend the immense possibilities of the new University, I believe that they will respond as generously as the people of Japan have already responded. I say this because I feel certain that the American people have such a deep and abiding confidence in the power of liberal education and of the efficacy of professional training that they will want to see in Japan a university which will emphasize these educational advantages to Japanese youth.

Plans for the new University have advanced to a point where a brief resume of them is timely. It is now the intention of the University Board to begin instruction in April, 1951, by which time the faculty, to be composed of a picked group of Japanese, European and American scholars, will have been recruited and made familiar with the task before them. It is planned that this process of orientation and organization will be carried on intensively during the period of 1950 in some American university center. This phase of the University's organization will be supervised immediately by Dr. Maurice E. Troyer, vice-president in charge of curricula and instruction under President Yuasa.

The University at its outset will be composed of a College of Liberal Arts which will exemplify the nature of a good

=== Page 4 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-

program of general education, and serve as a laboratory school for advanced graduate students who are preparing to teach at the college level; a Graduate School of Education, which will meet the urgent need for training educational leaders and teachers in the democratic tradition, and, as funds are available, Graduate Schools of Social Work and Citizenship and Public Administration to train, respectively, men and women for responsible governmental staff positions and for work in the social welfare, health and recreation fields.

To some this may seem an ambitious beginning, and to others it may appear as less than comprehensive. To the first group I will say that while it is a major undertaking, the program will be so integrated that duplication of staff and undue expenditure of effort will be avoided. In this we will have the expert guidance of Dr. Troyer. To those who may be disappointed that the University does not propose to open immediately Schools of medicine, law, business and applied science, it should be said that these projects must be held in abeyance until more funds are provided.

This points up the fact I wish to stress: the International Christian University will be, indeed it must be, an institution of first rank. The people of the United States and Canada are not interested in anything less than that. I am certain that most of you feel likewise. It can be neither a counterpart of a national university, nor merely another denominational institution. It should be a university that in time will become to the Orient what Oxford and Cambridge Universities are to Britain and the Commonwealth, or that Harvard and Yale and McGill and other universities are to North America. To aim at less than

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-

this high mark would be unworthy of all of us, and of those the new University will serve.

Mrs. Grew and I are heartily interested in this project and optimistic over its possibilities. All we can say in conclusion is that we hope, among the many good things that will come in 1950, will be an increasing interest and activity here and in Japan in the implementing of the idea of an International University at Mitaka.

Joseph C. Grew

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.93)
Dept file
The Dalton Office
AUG 19 1952
ADJUTANT GENERAL
Department of State
Petter
Jrew
FE file

November 22, 1949

Dear Joe:

Reference is made to your letter of November 21 enclosing a copy of an open letter which you are sending to Mr. Nishida of the Foreign Affairs Association of Japan for publication in the Christmas issue of CONTEMPORARY JAPAN.

In reply to your request, I certainly see nothing of an undesirable nature in the open letter and take this occasion to congratulate you on all you have done to assist in the establishment of the International Christian University.

Faithfully yours,
W. Dalton Butterworth

The Honorable
Joseph C. Drew,
2840 Woodland Drive,
Washington 8, D.C.

FE:NA:MGreen:clh
11/22/49

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.87)
7th A
I recalled the dispatch referred to in the last paragraph from DC/R, finding that no action had been taken on it, and sent it to 5 with 1 FSI to do what he could.
FAT
