894.00 Japan, Political Affairs., May 2, 1935 - March 17, 1938 (File 1006), part 2 of 3
ID: 894.00-1006-2   Pages: 461   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.00-japan-political-affairs-21/894.00%20Japan%2C%20Political%20Affairs.%2C%20May%202%2C%201935%20-%20March%2017%2C%201938%201006-part-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.92)
TODESPATCHNO
LLWEITIM
Translatiom of an editorial appearing is the ma
PEI JIH PA0 of Pe1ping for February 28, 1988.
(Trans. CHT)
(Checked: Pwm)
JPCOUPLT
serlous coup c'etnt occurred in Tokyo shortly after
five o'clock on the mornin of day before yeste day.
Accoruing to telegraohic essages received during the last
couple of days, it is learned that the coup d'etat was
carrled out b three thousand men of the Third Infantry
detachment of the First Divi lon stationed at Tokyo, who
occupied the Cabinet Orfice, the Home Office, the Metro-
politan Police Headquarters, and attaoked the official and
private residences of various important officials. Admiral
Okada, the Prime Minister, Admiral Saito, Lord Privy Seal,
and General Wantanabe, Insnector-General of Military
Education, were all murdered. Finance Minister Takahashi
was wounded, and sur sequently succumbed. The fate of former
Lord Privy Seal Makino 1s unknown. Grand Chamberlain Sasuki
was also seriously wounded. This is the most unprecedentedly
grave incident since the Meiji modernizatiom. After the
oseurrenee of the ineident, martial law was immediately
deelared im Tokyo. Although it is reperted that peaee is
Tokye has now been restored, & Reuter telegram of Pebrmary
s7th frem Tokye statess *Rebel treops whe csempied
Vindotare siee dagtrenk yeoterdey bre tot yes bo de

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.94)
一8-
yesterday also states: "Soldiers wearing Previsieme]
Military Police' arm bands and carrying rifles with fixed
bayonets are posted day and night all the way from the
Mon-Comsissioned Officers Club at Kudan where the Martial
Law Headquarters has been established to the corner of the
Im erl 1 P 1 ce Gate at Taceb sh1, including the Military
Police He o uart "s. There 1:  uist nce of Lene than three
feet betwecn ench two sentrles. Eneryency mensures are
str1ct."
In view of the above two mess ges, it can be seen that
the present situation in Tokyo is still tense. As regards
reorganization measures, although Home Minister Goto has
been aopointed temporarlly Acting Premler, the Cabinet hes
already dectaed to resi n en bloc and the successors have
not yet been decided upon.
Al.though this incident was caused by a few young
milita. men, in view of the circumstances surrounding the
incident, it 1s easy to imagine that they made seoret plans
in advance and that it (the incident) was decidedly net an
abrupt occurrence. It is readily seen that the cireumstances
behind the seene are not so simple as those of the May l8th
incident. As to the motives of this novement, the Japanese
War Office announced on the same dey that "The objeet of the
attacks launched by young military effieers t is morning was
to vindicate justice and to suppert the State beesuse the
Elder Statesmen, impertast mimisters, platoerats, bereemirats.
and palitieal parties eged in the destruation r the sate

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.94)
● 3 -
ayparent.
Bince the occurrence of the May l5th ineident, Japemese
constitutional administration has been dissolved and the
Government long ago became abnormal. However, by virtwe
of t' smmort of te Fider ft tesmen and important officials,
the so-called Saito ro x da net nal cabinets were
fortunutely formed, althouwh with great effort. Nevertheless,
the Milltary Readcuart rs objected to their internal and
foreign policles as being too weax, and expressed strong
dissatisfaction. Terefore, 1t was fre uently rumored last
year that a coup d'etat would take place. It was fortumate
that the yeur passed guletly. Nov, a few days agothe results
of Japan's general election were announced. The Oovernment
and the Minseito Part: won a great vietory. The future of
the Okada Cabinet could thus become stabilised gain. These
facts were probably a serious blow to young Japanese military
men, and they believed that the future government would
continue to be controlled by Elder Statesmen and important
officials, and that their radieal policy could hardly be
realized within a short period of time. Particularly, the
military budgets could not be satisfactory to the Military
Meadquarters which could mo longer remaim patlent, and (the
Military Headquarters) thereupon toek extraerdimary measures
in crder to wipe out the se-ealled politisal obeteeles.
Durine the recent several years dapesese milttary men hese

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.93)
一4一
ara. Therefore, the future changes in the politieal situatsem
in Japan will be worthy of note.
The entire world feels umeasy at this coup d'etat in
Tokyo. The British authorities have made no commont on this
matter, hut consider that it would serlously affect the pease
in the Fer Eust. Par  lro lermed upon receiot of the
inforaat on of tis inelceut; stoek v  ro ped ubruptly;
the oreas con loured 1t n erus to the  ce in the Far East.
The Soviet hu sian authoritles  id speclil attention t, this
matter and deeply feared that a change in the political
situatlon in Japan would ccelerate un even more irremediable
controversy. In acdition, there were no favorable comments
In Germany und America in regard to this matter. As regards
China, Its concern about Japan's political situntlon is
natural y more serious cue to geogra hical proximity and
close relationship between the two countries. Te believe
that it will presumably be very good for Japan if statesmen
and military experts of our eastern neighboring country will
hereafter thoroughly examine their internal and external
surroundings before determining their policy.
CHT:PWM/rd
A true copy of
the signedrorigi-
nal.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.97)
ENGLO
(Trams. c)
(Cheaked: Pm)
(EXTRACT)
INTERNATIONAL VIEW OF THE VIOLENT
REBELLION IN TOKYO.
We do not agree with the view that Japan's forelsm
relations will be abruptly changed beeause of this ineident.
The reason is that Japan's policy has long been decided by
the Military Headquarters.
From the point of view of the international effeets,
this incident is naturally disadvantageous to Japan. Great
Britain, the United States, and Russia will have to make every
effort to expand their armaments. When they were considerimg
their foreign policy toward Japan on the basis of the speeshes
and activities of the political leaders who could be considered
representatives of Japan, it was unknown whether those leaders
could protect their lives until the next morning. Then how
can sineere diplomacy be condueted? In any event this is
certainly a heavy loss to Japan.
Officials and people of the various countries are paying
special attention to the reorganization of the Japanese
Government. In order to pacify the soldiers, Japan will have
to use Araki to form a Cabinet.
Chinese people who can thoroughly examine this matter
will not consider this violent rebellion as having any special
effect on the present Sino-Japanese relations. China is
accustomed to hearing about an active and strong poliey and

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.94)
has no alternative but to keep within its 
regardless of whatever internal changes may take plese
the other side (in Japan). Nevertheless, Chinese peopãe
more seriously concerned about Jupan's culture and thought
The oresent Japanese Government is based upon the Cometitutiom
~h1.ch
eror Yeiji. Those ho were murdered
dey before y st ru y o im ortant duties under the Constitutiom
and vere offict ls close to the Emperor in the Palace. Most
of them were merttorlous officlals from the time of Emperor
Meiji. They had not committed any criminal offenses but
were artttrarily killed by a few military officers out to
vindicate justice and to protect the State. The essence of
Japan's traditional tnought, upon whioh the modern nation
was built, can no longer be said to be a reasonable and
regular interpretation of the oriental culture.
CHTIPWM/rd
A true cony of
the rgred orig

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.96)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Nanking, Maroh 13, 1936.
No. 123.
Sub ject:
Chinese Comment on the Tokyo Incidont
of February 26, 1936.
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. AND M. I.D.
ASSISTA
X
MID
ETARY
bee
894.00/632
FAR EASTERN
APR 7- 1936
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
22
1/
I have the honor to enclose a translation made in
this office of an editorial published in the Nanking
HSIN MIN PAO, of March 3, 1936, entitled "The Future of
Japan".
Comment on this incident published in the Chinese
press seems to have been restrained in tone, possibly
by order of the censors. The editorial enclosed with
this despatch is fairly typical of comment in general
and is submitted for that reason.
F/FG
It will
11

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
It will be observed that the writer points out that
the mutiny of February 26 is symptomatic of serious deterio-
ration in a state governed by law, such as is Japan; that
the revolt did not have the justification of a well-organiz-
ed party behind it, as decisive revolutionary movements in
European countries have had, and had the appearance of be-
ing the wilful act of a military faction, not the logical
effect of a conflict between socialist and capitalist
forces.
The conclusion of the editorial is that since "Japanese
society is comparatively well-organized and its people are
comparatively educated", the outcome of the struggle be-
tween military and civilian leaders may quite possibly be
the submission of the military faction.
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
Milla I Peh
Willys R. Peck,
Counselor of Embassy.
Enclosure:
1/ Translation, as stated.
Original and four copies to Department.
One copy to Peiping.
WRP:MCL

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
dere No. 1 to
toh No. 128.
Editorial published in Hsin Min Pao of Maroh 
Trans. Li.
THE FUTURE OF JAPAN
It has been a week since the coup d'etat of Fobrumry
occurred in Japan, and the impressions given us conserning the
incident are three-fold: Firstly, the revolting soldiers
only surrendered under the strict orders of the Emperer and
after they were compelled to do so by armed force. Seeonaly
only the lower military officers of the revolting army were
dismissed and puhished while the higher officers in command
of the coup remained in their positions and acted as mediators.
Lastly, the present cabinet tendered its resignation, and it
is reported that the candi ates for the new cabinet must be
selected in full compliance with the ideas of the Ministry
of War.
The coup has now become an event of the past and al-
though no signs of future developments have been revealed
leading to definite conclusions, yet the outlook of Japan's
politics is certainly dark.
Japan is a law governing state. Everything she does
must be according to law and everything must be governed
by law. The open murder of the highest officials and the
forcible occupation of important official quarters by men
in active military service are certainly detrimental to law
Moreover, the faot that rehabilitation measures taken after
the incident must  first be the subject of consultation
with the military officers responsible for the coup, cor-
tainly marks the deoline of the power of the Govornment.
Although

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.95)
-2
Although it was stated in the proclamation of thp
Law Commander that the Emperor had ordered the revoltime
soldiers to return to their camps, yet the solaiors pro
claimed that the order was a forged one. They surrendered
only after they had been forced to do so by guns and air-
planes.
The supreme leader of the Japanese Government is the
Emperor and the military youths have declared themselves
loyal and patriotic. Being loyal and patriotic, they
should absolutely obey the orders of the Emperor and should
not be compelled to obey by force of arms. Therefore the
coup not only damages the constitutional government of
Japan, but is also not agreeable with their aims of loyalty
and patriotism.
A coup d'etat in any country may be accomplished by
violent actions, as in France and Russia, but they all have
the object of upsetting feudalism. The ocoupation of Rome
by fascists in Italy and the seizure of political power by
the National Socialist Party in Germany all have had as their
support well organized parties. They were not merely un-
restrained actions of a certain number of military men. The
aots of the Japanese military youths show the ambitions of
the fascists, but they do not have a well organizel party
like that of the fasoists. They say that they are loyal to
their Emperor and that they desire to oust the fimeneieps
and oapitalists. Their coup d'etat is not ltme th
Franoe, neither that of Rumsia, nor those of
hiion
eap11am

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.97)
The motive of the coup d'etat was
military mon to usurp political power by violone
manager the government as the fasoists do. The
Russia and Italy all have well organized politioal par
as their supports, but the military youths in Japan have
only armed force. They hope to gain the confidenoe of th
peor e, so they use the words "loyal to the Emperor" as
their pretext.
The lower military orficers of the revolting army have
been dismissed and punished, but the higher officers respon-
sible for the coup are acting as mediators. It remains
question of doubt whether they will be punished also.
Regarding the formation of the new cabinet, all eyes
are focused on the Ministry of War. The outoome may be a
cabinet of military fascists. If the elder statesmen and
political parties of Japan unite and suppress the military,
still further violence will not be avoided. If, on the
other hand, the military are given a free hand to aot as
fascists, constitutional government in Japan will be ruin
and the military discipline will not be maintained. It will
be extromely dangerous for Japan to allow the. military to
become fascists.
Nevertheless, Japanese society is a comparatively
well organized sooiety and its people are comparatively
educased. The present struggle between the military and
the elde statesmen and financiers of the
party may cause them to wake up 
margenoy.and make the former yi
purse we epanot foretell the

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 20, 1936.
EHD:
Shanghai's despatch No. 77, March 13,
1936, forwards newspaper comment on the
new Japanese Cabinet.
The English language press, with the
exception of one paper under Japanese
control, feels that the Army will dominate
the Cabinet. The SHANGHAI EVENING POST
AND MERCURY (American) remarks that "un-
abashed by any responsibility for the
recent assassinations" the Japanese military
chieftains have blocked efforts to consti-
tute a new government, evidencing "an un-
blushing willingness to take advantage of
any strategic gain in which the coup may
have resulted."
The SHANGHAI TIMES (British but alleged
to be under Japanese control) expresses
disappointment in the appointment of Baba
to succeed Takahash1 because of his
opposition to the late Finance Minister's
moderate financial policies. The paper sees
in Hirota the "bright spot in the whole
picture" and expects him to find difficulty
in holding "the new team together". The
opinion is expressed that Japan will not
adopt a provocatively hostile attitude in
her

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
her foreign relations but rather that
she is going to take note of all the
realities of the situatlon."
The Chinese wernacular press fore-
sees a government, under military in-
fluence, pursuing an aggressive policy
1n China and predicts that the new
Cabinet will fall because of budgetary
difficulties.
Remarks made by T. V. Soong to a
newspaper correspondent are of interest:
(1) recent developments would only
result in a speeding up of the Japanese
program, (2) matters appeared to be
approaching a crisis, and (3) hostilities
were expected to break out in some
quarter in the near future.
JcV
JCV/VDM

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.95)
ZE
NO. 77
A-
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL,
894.
Shan hai, China, March 13, 1936.
Jo
Sino-Japanese Relations: Shanghai
SUBJECT:
Opinion on February 26 Incident.
Selection of New Cabinet.
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. ANDM.I.D
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
B现
WASHINGTON.
APR 2-1936
SIR:
Department
894.00/633
1/
I have the honor to enclose a copy of a self-.
explanatory despatch of today's date, with enclosures,
from this Consulate General to the American Embassy
at Peiping in re ard to the subject above mentioned.
RespectfulAy yours,
C. E. Gauss,
American Consul General.
Enclosure:
1/- Copy of Shanghai Consulate
General despatch No. 70
with enclosures.
27
800
G
MBD MB
1936
In uintuplicate.
F/FG
1-1221

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.74)
opposition to commmimm has apparently beem relegated
to a minor peaision.
As to the now uabinet, the prees ese in
dirrkenlties eaesuntared by Mr. Keki Mireta
sttien thas the ary will dt
hape has teen anpreased that the
will have amedesatlns ateet bat
pay of eny real literaltatien at the

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.79)
contimvés that much depends upen the mannet
the military "purge" is carried out ead that the reel
Sest ef the Govermmeat's abllity to maiatasa
principles will ceme later. Ia ite lasue of 
zatere to the resigmatiem at five mane
the resigtio hle

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.83)
y.t
a is happy to coe kin as prter bus aeirés te to
unfer kim "a thereaghly hand pieked milstary mimama
sabines, with the army coing the pieking."
As to the vereecelar press, THE SHIN SEIE mIN PAO
(Chinese), eccerding to a sramslatiem espeerins ts
THE CHINA PRESS of Mareh , soneide th t in
Japaz extremsly sonfusine and contradietery. It exprpeess
the opimion that the general pablie is mot in sympatky
with the military uprising but that the anthorities wave
nevertheless unable to mmppress it without amising
effieial ordere frem the mperor, and that the futuma
poliey of the cabinot is in the siremmstanses eertmis-t
be influeuced by the wilitary. It believes that Japam
will yursue her aggressive pollcy in Chine and that the
Chinozn should find mothods of meeting the approeching
orisis whio will be more serious than any faced in the
Di.
sccordine to a transletion
CTD

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.74)
the cabinet will probably fall because
dirrfoulsies.
4

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPAN'S NÉW CABINET
the diplomatic arm of the Japan-
ese Government but as a warn-
ing which. if noted in time, may
come into being. Its hirth
minimize the extent of disappoint-
has been a laborious one. It re-
ment in the end.
presents at best a compromise of
Even if an independent policy
cross purposes fundamentally in-
were ever formulated, the vigorous
capable of compromise. It marks
enforcement is liable to be only
little triumph on the part of the
one-sided. Mr. Hirota, acting on
premier, rather does it indicate a
such a policy with the prior con-
tacit surrender by him to the
sent, if not approval, of the mili-
army and the navy.
tary, will be required to carry it
Personally Mr. Hirota, free
out with full vigor against or with
from extraneous influences. would
the foreign Powers to which it is
perhaps make a most desirable
directed. But with no vigor will
premier. His knowledge of foreign
he be permitted to try to enforce
affairs and his usual sane attitude
the same policy internally against
toward diplomacy should amply
the wishes of the military. In
qualify him to assume the respon-
other words, he may play a strong
sibilities which his office may im-
hand abroad. only a weak hand
pose. But Mr. Hirota the new
will be allowed him at home. He
premier is not Mr. Hirota the old
can impose obligations on other
foreign minister. If his tenure
nations and accept none for his
of office is to enjoy a reasonably
freely and alone.
long life, he would have to give in
The only krtoht spot one may
on important issues to the whims
discern in the  binet lies in
and fancies of those who are bliss.
a statement
ted to Mr.
fully ignorant of international r-
Hirota, that
bership con
lations and the isolated position
sists of na
ers who are
in which their country has been
not afraid
the fulnment
placed. 1f on the other hand,
of their officialeluties. If it is in-
Mr. Hirota were to act out of his
tended as a threet  the world at
individual conviction for the ulti-
large, it cannot but be regrettable.
mate good of Japan, he would
If it is a plain warning to the
shortly meet with opposition too
military, it is to be highly
deep-rooted for him to overcome
welcomed.
single-handed.
By a vigorous attitude to
The composition of the
ward the maintenance of an inde-
Cabinet itself does not give much
pendent foreign office Mr. Hirota
hope for optimism. While the
may eventually triumph over the
principle of coalition has proved
real enemies of a great empire
benefcent in countries far advanc-
His way to success is not to ac-
ed in the ideals of democracy, it
quiesce in extra-judicial demands
cannot endure in a nation still
but to take the public into conf-
dominated by feudalistic-minded
dence. The military may wax
warlords. In the present case
eloquent about the glory of expan-
there lurks the danger of too many
sion on the continent, and yet the
cooks spoiling the broth, and with
average Japanese is more int
all factions represented on the
mately concerned with his own
Cablnet Mr. Hirota may be kept
economic well-being. As the lat
fully occupied with petty politics
Mr. Takahashi aptly suggested,
and scarcely left alone to cope
there is no use of having an u
with the major problems confront
to-date army and navy df
ing his Government.
too poor to stand a long war
The main feature on his
the tax-payers in Japan
seven-point program which is of
made to appreciate the full m
ing of this apparent confession,
world is the "establielment of an
the military will find little ground
independent and vigorous diplo-
to sustain their promises of co
magy." What this beautiful phrase-
quest and spoils attendant upo
ology really means is something
it.
an outsider cannot clearly make
In Mr. Hirota Japan shoukd
ont: By "independent" is presum-
have a great statesman, patriotle

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.98)
 extrateous Influon
make a most desirable
His knowledge of foreian
he be permitted to try
the same poliey internall
the wishes of the mil
qualtty him to assume the respon-
nther words, he may plaj
sibilltles which his office may im-
hand abroad, oaly a wi
os But Mr. Hirota the new
will be allower him at h
ot Is not Mr. Hirota the old
nations and a
one
of office is to enjoy a reaspnably
freely and alor
long life, he would have to give in
The on
pot'o
on haportant issues to the whins
discern in
and Tancies of those who are blim.
a statemen
ed
fully ignorant of international 
Hirota. the
bership
lations and the isolated position
sists of na
ers
in which their country has been
not afraid
the fu
placed.  on the other hand,
Mr. Hirota were to act out of his
individual conviction for the ulti-
large, it cannot
hmabe regrettablé
mate good of Japan, he would
If it is a plain
warning to the
shortly meet with opposition too
military, it is
to be highy
deep-rooted for him to ovorcone
welcomed.
single-handed.
By a vigorous attitudet
The composition of the
ward the maintenance of an inde-
Cabinet it elf does not give much.
pendent foreign office Mr. Hirota
hope for optimism. White the
may eventually triumph over the
principle of coalition has proved
real enemies of a great empire.
beneficent in countries far advane.
His way to success is not to ac-
ed in the ideals of democracy, it
quiesce in extra-judicial démands
cannot endure in a nation still
but to take the public into confi-
dominated by feudalistic-minded
dence. The military may wax
warlords. In the present case
eloquent about the glory of expan-
there lurks the danger of too many
sion on the continent, and yet the
cooks spoiling the broth, and with
average Japanese is more intf
all factions represented on the
mately concerned with his own
Cabinet Mr. Hirota may be kept
economic well-being. As the late
fully occupied with petty politics
Mr. Takahashi aptly suggested,
and scarcely left alone to cope
there is no use of having an up-
with the major problems confront-
to-date army and navy if Japan is
ing his Government.
too poor to stand a long war. If
The main feature on his
the tax-payers in Japan can be
seven-point program which is of
made to appreciate the full mean-
immediate interest to the outsige
ing of this apparent confession,
world is the "establishment of an
the military will find little ground
independent and vigorous diplo-
to sustain their promises of con-
macy." What this beautiful phrase-
quest and spoils attendant upon
ology really means is something
it.
an outsider cannot clearly make
In Mr. Hirota Japan should
out. By "independent" is presum-
have a great statesman, patriotic
ably meant independent from the
enough not to be afraid to die for
interference of the army and the
the welfare of his country and
navy, and by "vigorous" is meant
still far-sighted enough to realt
vigorous in the prosecution of
the futility of wanton aggression
that independent diplomacy.
In him all well-wishers of Japal
This pronouncement, if taken
hope to find the cornerstone of F
at its face value, is an indirect
Eastern tranquility, and on h
confession of the absence of in-
Japan will have to rely to spare
dependence in Japan's foreign
herself the stigma of being beyond
policy in the past and, of the
the pale of law in the family of
laxity with which efforts were
nations.
made to show a semblance of inde-
peridence.
With the introduetion of the
new Cabinet things may change
for the better; most probably they
may change for the worse. As
far as disinterested crities may
observe, the present Cabinet can
hardly expect to free itself from
undue interference of the military

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
policy will assume a more precise
form of expression. Mr. Hirota has
JAPANESE COMPROMISE
the advantage of leading a Govern-
ment in which the conduct of
The new Prime Minister of Japan
Foreign affairs is in his own hands.
has skilfully handled the crisis
Yet he will have to give due heed
which confronted him before he had
to the new relationship with the
completed his new Cabinet. He has
Army and Navy chiefs. The price
been conciliatory in the discussions
to be paid for curbing the volatility
with the military and naval authori-
of military individualists will prob-
ties. In their turn they have not
ably be discerned in the sharper
been unreasonable. The gravity of
definition of policy. The Navy
the now suppressed revolt has
Minister has already intimated that
brought patriotic concern to bear
additional expenditure will be re-
upon the situation, with the result
quired to meet conditions ariaing
that exceptional pains have been
out of the breakdown in the London
taken to reconcile conflicting views.
Conference. Whether this will have
The special relations of the Army
any effect on the Government's
to the Constitution are generally
attitude toward Army requtrements
recognized, but not so generally un-
cannot be judged at the moment.
derstood. To put the matter in a
The new War Minister, Count
nutshell, the War Minister must be
Terauchi, is generally believed to be
a serving soldier. Therefore, by re-
a man of moderate tendencies. He
fusing to supply the Prime Minister
is not credited with allegiance
with such an officer, the Army can
any particular political group.
effectively assert its views when
has traditions of statesmanship
Cabinet-making is in train. In the
his family. He has eviden
circumstances, Mr. Kqki Hiróta has
handled the discussions between
really been able to go far in
Army and Mr. Hirota withad
establishing the essential require-
cretion which has averted what
ments of parliamentary government.
one time was feared to betole
He has yielded to the Army and
deadlock. He may be trusted to
Navy's objections regarding the
subscribe to Mr. Hirota's desire
original selection of Mr. Shigeru
a coherent expression of ams
Yoshida—Count Makino's son-in-
objects. There remains the
law—as Foreign Minister by taking
situation which will cha
that portfolio again within his per-
statesmanship of the ney
sonal charge. He has also accepted
Minister, his colleagus
the view that the Minister of the
Tremmary and the Cak
Interior should be a non-party man.
whple. The task wilk
He has, however, carried the day in
concile the foreign
insisting on the inclusion of two
which the Army and
representatives of each of the two
mesth to say, with
chief political parties in the ne
conditions of the
Government. Although, there
only three of his first selections re-
main in the offices assigned to
1504
Dr. Eichi Baba, Finance
Hisaichi Terawchl,
Navy
Minist

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
The special relations of
to the Constitution are
recognized, but not so generally um
derstood. To put the matter in 
nutabell, the War Minister must be
Ang to supply the Prime
with such an officer, the Army can
effectively assert its views when
any particular politio
Cabinet-making is in train. In the
has traditions of stat
circumstances, Mr. Koki Hiróta has
really been able to
establishing the essential requise
ments of parliamentary government.
cretion which has averte
He has yielded to the Army and
doe time was feared
Navy's objections regarding the
deadlock. He may
original selection of Mr. Shigeru
subscribe to Mr. Hirota's
Yoshida—Count Makino's son-in-
a coherent expression of aims
law—as Foreign Minister by taking
objecte. There remains the inte
that portfolio again within his per-
sdtuation which will chall
sonal charge. He has also accepted
statesmanship of the ney
the view that the Minister of the
Minister, his collea
Interior should be a non-party man.
Treasury and the
He has, however, carried the day in
whole. The task will
insisting on the inclusion of two
concile the foreign policies,
representatives of each of the two
wnich the Army and Navh
chief political parties in the new
much to say, with the
Govornment
Although. therefore,
conditions of the
world will hope that Japah
perceive the advantage of bidding
pred to them
firmly for co-operation. There is
1):
Pmemce Mroester.
Count
very desire to facilitate that
Minister
Nagano.
Navy
Minister-he has
Admiral Osami
would not be adversely affected by
modification of recent trends.
managed
d to retain Mr. Takuchi
insistence
Kawasaki who, instead of the Home,
position in the Far East, provi
now assumes the Commerce and
the uncertainties which Kave
Industry portfolio. The compromise
obscured understanding of her
reflects credit on all parties to the
quirements can be elin
discussion.
dignity and calmma
the Japanese nation
tha: the Army still holds
recent crisis have
dominant voice in the Govern-
pathy and admiration
ment. That is inevitable by reason
can go forward
of the constitutional position to
which reference has been made.
The Army has, however, shown
to its pro
itself sensible of the alarm which
rècent revelations have occasioned.
It is stated to be taking drastic steps
looking to him as its leader.
to signalize its disapproval of the
revolt, by placing a number of high
officers on the retired list. Regard
for the traditions of the service will,
no doubt, throw what in other coun
tries might be considered an un-
necessary veil of secrecy over
certain aspects of the disciplinary
treatment demanded. On that point
judgment must be suspended. The
real test of the new Government's
ability to restore parliamentary
principles—albeit under certain re-
cognized limitations—will come
fater. Mr. Hirota has hitherto com-
manded the respect of the two
Services. He has been fearless in
emphasizing the need for unity of
thought in the public expression of
Japan's views. He has shown con-
siderable capacity for compromise
and firmness in stepping into the
breach so tragically caused. The
Japanese people owe him a debt of
gratitude. The world outside will
be prepared to applaud his courage
and rely upon his record with pon-
admit that, de

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
Mitorisl.
MR. HIROTA COMPLETES
Very extensive changes are being
HIS TASK
made among the leading figures of the
While international congratula-
Army. Such leading men as General
tions wil! doubtless be offered to Mr. K.
Y. Kawashima, former War Minister;
Lieut.-General T. Hashimoto, Com-
Hirota on having been successful in
mander of the Imperial Guards Divi-
forming a national Cabinet following
sion; Lieut.-General T. Hori, Com-
the serious events which took place in
mander of the 1st Division; Lieut.-
Tokyo less than two weeks ago, the
General R. Iwasa, Commander of the
general opinion will be that his hard-
est task is going to be that of keeping
Gendarmerie, are now all going to be
placed on the waiting list in addition to
the new team together. It is frankly
the four members of the Supreme War
admitted in Tokyo that Mr. Hirota only
Council who were transferred to the
succeeded in his task by effecting a
compromise with the leaders of the
reserve last week. A drastic reshuff-
ing is taking place. as was to be
Army and Navy, and a study of the
expected after the serious events in
personnel of the new Cabinet shows
Tokyo, and it is difficult to say, at this
that at least three men who were
stage, just what the outcome will be on
originally chosen have been dropped in
matters of policy: If there is one
favour of others. It is encouraging,
thing that ca he aid with certainty
however, to learn that Mr. Hirota did
about the Jarnese Army it is its
eventually carry his point that there
intense loyalty to the Emperor and its
should be two representatives of the
desire to serve the nation, and it ia
Seiyukai and two of the Minseito
difficult to believe that any policies will
parties in the Cabinet—not only one.
be insisted upon. which run counter to
nmember of each party as had been
the Imperial wes, for it is by
demanded by the military leaders.
Imperial wishesMr. Hirota has
The new Cabinet is very distinctly a
taken on the tas of heading the Gov-
composite one, containing not only poli-
ernment. Japan has its own internal
tic:ans and representatives of the two
problems to solve and they are not ea
fighting services, but also something of
problems. They can only be reso
the "Ministry of the Talents"—men
by a truly co-operative effort, and
who have distinguished themselves in
is the promise of the new Cabin
public services and posts of executive
responsibility. One cannot feel too
happy at the choice of Dr. E. Baba as
Minister of Finance, for he was one of
those who opposed the moderate finan-
cial policies of the late Mr. Takahashi
and who was all in favour of larger
military and naval provision in the
already badly unbalanced budget.
Perhaps now that the responsibility of
the Exchequer is his he will have to
realise the practical difficulties of
fnancing, for increased taxation will
nut-be popular and there la obvious

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
Army and Navy, and a study of the
ing is taking place,
personnel of the new Cabinet shows
expected after the seric
that at least three men who were
Tokyo, and itvis diffcult
originally chosen have been dropped in
stage, just wheg the oute
favour of others. It is engouraging
se Ar
should be two representatives of the
intense loyalty to ge En
Selyukai and two of the
desire to serve the natic
difficult to believe,that ar
parties in the Cabinet—not only one
be insisted upon
member of each party as had
demanded by the military leaders.
the Imperial
The new Cabinet is very distinctly a
Imperial wishe
composite one, containing not only poli-
taken on the ta
ticians and representatives of the two
ernment. Japan has its
fighting services, but also something of
problems to solve and they
the "Ministry of the Talents"—men
problems. They can onl
who have distinguished themselves in
by a truly co-operative ef
public services and posts of executive
is the promise of the new
responsibility. One cannot feel too
happy at the choice of Dr. E. Baba as
Minister of Finance, for he was one of
those who opposed the moderate finan-
cial policies of the late Mr. Takahashi
and who was all in favour of larger
military and naval provision in the
already badly unbalanced budget.
Perhaps now that the responsibility of
the Exchequer is his he will have to
realize the practical difficulties of
financing, for increased taxation will
not be popular and there is obvious
danger in any further overloading of
the public debt. It remains to be seen
how he will proceed, but Mr. Hirota, at
the helm, will doubtless exert his own
moderating influence. The fact that
Mr. Hirota is the Premier is the bright
spot in the whole picture, and every-
body will wish him well in his most
difficult task.
In an interview with press repre-
sentatives Mr. Hirota has declared his
belief that, in view of the present
internal and external situation, all
past maladministration should be
eradicated while Japan's foreign rela-
tions need to be placed on an independ-
t and active basis. One need not
terpret this as indicating that Japan
is going to adopt a provocatively
hostile attitude in her foreign relations
but rather that she is going to take
note of all the realities of the situa-
tion. The new Premier has pleaded for
all political parties, the military, and
the bureaucrats to discard their differ-
ences and to establish a firm national
policy and carry it out, and if he can
manage to get co-operative agreement
between all those interests then he
will be able to make an undisputed
claim to speak in 'the name of the
nation as a whole. It is that need which
has been felt wanting in Japan for a
long time past, and it is the "national"
character of the new Cabinet which,
provided it can be worked, gives it such
potential strength. We have seen in a
good many countries in recent years
the closing of party ranks in face of
national difficulties and how much has
thereby been accomplished which other-
wise would not have been possible, and
it is very much to be hoped that Japan
will likewise profit from the formula-
tion and execution of a policy which
represents the pooled views of different
factions and interests.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.97)
compromse with the leaders of the
reserve last wedk. A dz
Army and Navy, and a study of the
ing is taking place, as
personnel of the new Cabinet shows
expected after the serious
that at least three men who were
Tokyo, and itris difficult to
originally chosen have been dropped in
stage, just wha the outco
rmatters of po If therers
fayour of others. It is engouraging
however, to learn that Mr. Hirota did
thing that
weaid with cert
eventually carry his point that there
about the
se Army
intense loyalty to. e En
should be two representatives of the
desire to serve the nation
Selyukai and two of the Mimselto
difficult to believe,that any
parties in the Cabinet—not only one.
member of each party as had been
be insisted upon wmich ran
demanded by the military leaders.
the Imperial
, for it
The new Cabinet is very distinctly a
Imperial wishe
Mr. Hiz
conposite one, containing not only poli-
taken on the tas br heading
tic:ans and representatives of the two
ernment. Japan has its own
fighting services, but also something of
problems to solve and they are not
the "Ministry of the Talents"—men
problems. They can only be
who have distinguished themselves in
by a truly co-operative effort, and
public services and posts of executive
is the promise of the new Cabinet.
responsibility. One cannot feel too
happy at the choice of Dr. E. Baba as
Minister of Finance, for he was one of
those who opposed the moderate finan-
cial policies of the lat: Mr. Takahashi
and who was ait m teoor of larger
mtaont pton 1 the
adready
todl unbadaneed budget.
Perhaps now that the re ponsibility of
the Exchequer is his he will have to
realize the practical difficulties of
financing, for increased taxation will
not be popular and there is obvious
danger in any further overloading of
the public debt. It remains to be seen
how he will proceed, but Mr. Hirota, at
the helm, will doubtless exert his own
moderating influence. The fact that
Mr. Hirota is the Premier is the bright
spot in the whole picture, and every-
body will wish him well in his most
difficult task.
In an interview with press repre-
sentatives Mr. Hirota has declared his
belief that, in view of the present
internal and external situation, all
past maladministration should be
eradicated while Japan's foreign rela-
tions need to be placed on an independ-
…t and active basis. One need not
terpret this as indicating that Japan
is going to adopt a provocatively
hostile attitude in her foreign relations
but rather that she is going to take
note of all the realities of the situa-
tion. The new Premier has pleaded for
all political parties, the military, and
the bureaucrats to discard their differ-
ences and to establish a firm national
policy and carry it out, and if he can
manage to get co-operative agreement
between all those interests then he
will be able to make an undisputed
claim to speak in 'the name of the
nation as a whole. It is that need which
has been felt wanting in Japan for a
long time past, and it is the "national"
character of the new Cabinet which,
provided it can be worked, gives it such
potential strength. We have seen in a
good many countries in recent years
the closing of party ranks in face of
national difficulties and how much has
thereby been accomplished which other
wise would not have been possible, and
it is very much to be hoped that Japan
will likewise proft from the formula-
tion and execution of a policy which
represents the pooled views of differ
factions and interests.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.98)
pointment of a representative
until the desired alterations had bemade
There are several ways in waten one
reaction on the part of the averag
would be one of complete astomimmemt at the
Army's temerity in aking sucha position in
the very shadow of
the rve "incident" which
has shocked the world.belleve that such
reaction must be by many clylia
Japanese'who have net ben carried away in
the fast-running current of Japanes imperial-
istic policy.
Another reaction, more clinical in nature
would be to discern the Army's usuat tenaeity
in capitalizing even the most adverse turm of
fortune to its advantage. Certainly there can
be few outside the Army who are at this tim
in a mood to sympathize whole-heartedly with
the mutineers who engineered the coup; the
Army itself stands officially opposed; yet it is
obvious enough that this coup represented
something for which many sections of the
Army teel sympathy. and there is an unblush
ing willingness to take advantage of any
strategic gain in which the coup may have
resulted whether those who so take advantage
are openly with the mutineers or aganst th
Mr Hirota himself is regarded as close to
the Army in his attitude toward policies both
within and without the nation. Although 
leading member of the last Cabinet, his personal
safety was not at any time in jeopardy durtng
the recent coup which is a signfficant detai
when it is considered how widespread the plot
was, even extending to include the person of
the revered last of the Genro. It would seem
that the Army is happy to see him as Premier
but desires to see under him a thoroughly hand
picked military-minded Cabinet, with the Army
doing the picking.
Events of the last few hours and the next
few hours may be, therefore, of extraordinary
significance in pointing Japan's future courses.
If the military prevail without check, the world
cannot but take that fact as officlal endorse-
ment of the recent coup in all its aspects. It
is indeed surprising that the Army feels itself
able to ask such a supreme vote of confidence
at a time when it might well regard itself as
in disgrace; but on the other hand, it is hard
to discern factors of opposition in Japan which
now possess sufficient strength to admimister a
check.
No matter how often Japan's spokesmen
may repeat that the recent coup was of purely
internal significance, this Army challenge to the
formation of the new Government, coming as
it does immediately following the coup, un-
mistakably makes the coup of  international
significance. For the Government as a whole
will shape Japan's policies both at home and
abroad, and a Goverament largely of, eertaimly
by and for the Army will wahus quest
strengthen Japanese military aggresslon. abroad
There is no other interpretation open.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
50-1
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 10, 1936.
STH:
Tokyo's 1735 of March 19, 1936,
analyzing "the meesure of success achieved
by the February 26 insurgents", is an
interesting despatch prepared by Andrews.
It indicates in outline the aims which the
insurgents sought to accomplish, enumerates
developments subsequent to the outbreak
which appear to be favorable or unfavorable
to the accomplishment of the aims of the
insurgents, and concludes with an expression
of the opinion that "the aims of the in-
surgents which failed are outweighed by
those that succeeded."
That opinion was expressed in regard
to the aims as a whole of the insurgents.
No attempt was made to divide these
aims into those which fall into the field
of foreign policy and those which relate
to domestic policy. The opinion is, there-
fore, not a conclusive reply to the cues-
tion (in which we are peculiarily interest-
ed) whether developments arising out of
the incident indicate a rise or decline
of chauvinism in Japan.
This well-prepared despatch is well
worth reading in full.
EHD/DLY

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.95)
50-1
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, March 19, 1936.
No. 1735
SUEJECT:
AN AALYSIS OF THE EASURE OF SUCCESS ACHIEVED
BY THE FEBRUARY 26 INSURGENTS.
Copryin FE (381)
Divisien of
APR1-1936
2
894.00/634
C
COPIES SENT TO
9356 AR
O.N.I. AND M. LD.
MID - En1
STATE
The Honorable
THE UNDER SEGRETAHY
The Secretary of State,
PHLED
Washington.
28
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Sir:
1936
P
I have the honor to report that the outbreak of
Fobruary 2o-29 has had the effect of stimulating the
Government to the adoption of many of the reforms which
C
the insurgents demanded.
I.
Aims of the Insurgents which met with substantial
success.
F/FG
It is true that the insurrection was successfully quelled
in a military way, that the radical or "direct action" group
in

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.98)
7
..
50-2
-2-
in the Army and its civilian sympathizers are at presont in
disfavor and are being rounded up by the authorities for
eventual trial*, that severel of the revolting officers have
committed suicide, and that the remainder have been expelled
from the Army. On the other hand the actions of the younger
officers who took part in the revolt have definitely borne
fruit in line with the program of grievances of these offi-
cers.
It has been stated recently by Army leaders now in
control that not only must stricter discipline in the Army
be established but that also the "fundamental causes" of the
insurrection must be wiped out. For example, General Tere-
uchi, the newly appointed War Minister, issued a statement
on March 9 in which, among other things, he said:
"As for
the Incident, the causes of it were widespread and deeply
rooted.
It should be .ade the occasion for endeavors to
clarify the principles of the foundation of the Army and
remove the evils with wnich it is affected.
Effor ts must
be made to make it manifest that the Army is under the dir-
ect commend of the Emperor."
Incidentally, an "Army under
the direct command of the Emperor" was one of the battle-
cries of the insurgents and the banners flown from their
headquarters stated:
"Loyalty to the Emperor and up with
the pure Army."**
General Terauchi went on to state that
when discipline in the Army had been perfected, efforts
should be made to clarify the national polity, promote
the welfare of the people, make administrative reforms and
strengthen national defense. The adoption of such a program
was an importent part of the rebels' plans.
Furthermore
Embassy's telegram No. 63, March 7, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 1721 of March 6, 1936.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
50-3
-3-
Furthermore, according to the ASAHI of March 7, on that
day General Terauchi told Mr. Hirota that the Army insisted
upon utilizing the February 26 incident as a turning point
in Japanese policy and on establishing a fundamental policy
based on state control and complete reform of the national
administration, with the rejection of the liberal policy pur-
sued since the Meiji Restoration.
There are distinct indica-
tions that the Army's desires as expressed by the War Minister
will meet with fulfilment at the hands of the Cabinet. Mr.
Hirota has reportedly stated that his views are not at variance
with those of the War Minister.
In his "verbal statement" of
March 9, Mr. Hiro ta implied that the "present unfortunate in-
cident" was fundamentally connected with past laxity in ad-
ministration and lack of a positive and independent foreign
policy. Finally, many of the ideals of the defeated younger
ofricers, later endorsed by the loyal Army, are embodied in
the statement of policy issued by the new Government on
March 17.*
A parallel can be drawn between these develop-
men+s ana
the actions since September, l031, of the more in-
temperate
Army officers in Manchuria and North China which,
as "faits accomplis", received the endorsement of the Japanese
Government.
Before analyzing the ains of the insurgent officers in
connection witn the success or failure of these aims, it is
pertinent to remark that a large section of the Army and of
the civilian population were and are in sympathy with the
ideals that prompted the February 26 affair, though opposed
to the violent and undisciplined methods adopted. This fact
helps to explain the fundamental success of the insurgent
movement.
The
* Embassy's despatch No. 1733 of March 19, 1936.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
50-4
-4-
The motives and plens of the "direct action"group in
and outside the Army are revealed by the actions and state-
ments of this group since the Incident of May 15, 1932, by
the mimeographed statement left by the insurgent soldiers
at newspaper offices on the morning of February 26 last, and
by the official document issued by the War Office on the evening
of February 26. According to the statement of the insurrection-
ists, they desired the fell of the Okada Government because it
had "been drifting away from the true spirit of Japan and had
usurped the prerogatives of the Emperor."
The Okada Govern-
ment fell owing to its responsibility for the Incident. Evi-
dences given for the above charge against the Okada Cabinet
were the signing of the London Naval Treaty, for which Viscount
Admiral Saito was alleged to have been largely responsible,*
and the dismissal of General Masaki as Inspector General of
Military Education on July 16, 1955, for which Saito was also
blamed. Saito was one of the victims of the recent outbreak.
The insurrectionaries also desired the abolition of the system
whereby the senior statesmen offered counsel to the Emperor
and to
the Government without being responsible for their ac-
tions.
In this connection it is interesting to note that the
Hirota Cabinet is reported to be seriously considering abolish-
ment of the Cabinet Deliberative Body, which since its organi-
zation on May 10, 1935, ** had been largely under the influence
of such senior statesmen as Admiral Saito, its President, and
Ir. Takahashi, its Vice President. The official statement of
the War Office issued on the evening of February 26*gave
among the purposes of the uprising the elimination of states-
men
*
Embassy's despatch No. 1707, March 5, 1936.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 1332, May 31, 1935.
***
Embassy's despatch No. 1721, March 6, 1935.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.98)
●
50-5
-5-
men close to the Throne (Saito was killed, Admiral Suzuki,
Court Chamberlain, was seriously wounded and at any rate
deprived of political influence, and Baron Ikki resigned
from his post of President of the Privy Council on March 11).
Also listed for "elimination", according to the War Office
announcement, were the military clique (General Watanabe,
Inspector General of Military Education of the War Office,
was killed), and bureaucrats (Mr. Takahashi, Finance Minister,
was killed).
A partial motive for the assassination of these
men was the need felt by the younger officers to "clarify
great principles and to protect and make manifest the national
polity." Clarification of the national polity and the ex-
tinction of ideas incompatible with national principles (such
as the Minobe theory) are set forth as the first principles
of the new Governnent's policy in the official statement is-
sued on iarch 17.
Also among the known aims of the radical army element
and of a great part of the Army as well was the establish-
ment of
a kind of state socialism, with the imposition of
higher taxes on capitalists, the reduction of taxes on the
poorer people, and general administrative measures for the
welfare of the masses, particularly in the rural cormnunities
These objectives were touched on in the Army pamphlet of
October 1, 1934, which contained such phrases as:
"So long
as economic profits, and especially unearned incomes, are
enjoyed by one section of the nation alone the majority of
the people will be left in utmost misery and distress......"*
A program of state reform resembling that desired by the
Army is now under consideration by the Hirota Cabinet as
evidenced in general terms in the Hirota Cabinet's policy
statement
Embassy's despatch No. 1031, November 1, 1934.

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
50-6
-6-
statement of March 17.*
After the assassinations of February 26, according to
information received by the Imbassy, the insurgents demanded
of the provisional Government the appointment of either Baron
Hiranuma or Admiral Kanji Kato as Premier.**
While Baron
Hiranuma was not made Premier, he was appointed to the post
of President of the Privy Council on March 13 and formally
installed in office on that day. It will be recalled that
Hiranuma has long been known as a chauvinist, an anti-liberal,
and a favorite of the radical group in the Army; that the ap-
pointment of Baron Ikki as President of the Privy Council on
May 3, 1934, was made in violation of the precedent that the
Vice President of the Council be promoted to the Presidency
upon the resignati on of the former incumbent; and that the
supporters of Baron Hiranuma were greatly annoyed because,
although Vice President of the Council, he had not been ap-
pointed to the Presidency.***
The younger of ficers who engineered the insurrection
wanted larger defense appropriations and a stronger policy
against Soviet Russia. Judging fron current repor ts and the
present Cabinet's statement of policy, an inerease in defense
appropriations seems assured.
As stated above, on March 9 Mr.
Hirota mentioned the necessity of positive and independent re-
adjustment of international relations. Four days later, in a
conversation with me, Mr. Hirota stated that the "positive
diplomacy" frequently mentioned in the press applied exclusive-
ly to Soviet Russia and China and simply meant the expe diting
of his former policy as Minister for Foreign Affairs.****
II
Embassy's despatch No. 1733, March 19, 1936.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 41, February 27, 1936.
***
Embassy's despatch No. 776, May 5, 1934.
****Embassy's telegram No. 74, March 13, 1936.

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
50-7
-7-
7
II. Aims of the Insurgents which Failed.
Prince Saionji, the Genro, escaped assassination and
in fact subsequently recomnended to the Emperor the appoint-
ment of Mr. Hirota as Fremier. However, in choosing a can-
didate for Premier, the Geno avoided consulting the other
elder statesmen near the Tarone, a custom which had been
established by him imnedietely after the May 15 Incident
and which was distasteful to the radical element in the Army.
On February 27 the leaders of the rebellion were reported to
have demanded a military dictatorship for Japan. This demand
was immediately rejected by the Government.*
However, the
establishment of a military dictatorship was not among the
objectives of the insur ents as disclosed by their mimeo-
graphed statement of February 26 and by the official state-
ment of the War Office on that day. The probable reason for
the issuance of this demand was to enable the insurgents to
make a better bargain with the Government in accordance with
the well-known Japanese habit of demanding more than can be
obtained for the purpose of striking e future compromise.
Seven Army members of the Supreme War Council resigned on
March 3, assuming responsibility for the Incident. Among
those who resigned were Generals Masaki and Araki, who had
been an inspiration to the plotters and whose ideas un-
doubtedly influenced the latter. However, General Hayashi,
a member of the military clique which the insurgents wanted
to get rid of, also resigned from the Supreme War Council.
In return for certain concessions mentioned elsewhere in
this despatch, General Terauchi is reported to have agreed
with
* Embassy's telegram No. 41, February 27, 1936.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
with Mr. Hirota to establish stricter control in the Army.
The disciplinary measures thus far taken by the Army have
already been mentioned. In addition, more than one hundred
civilians are said to have been arrested by the Tokyo gendarm-
erie and the Metropolitan Police for alleged complicity in
the February 26 Incident. If the Amy and the Home Office
continue to take vigorous steps against the "direct actionists"
and if the Government supplements these steps by carrying out
the reforms desired by the Army, the danger of another uprising
in the near future will probably be greatly lessened.
III. Conclusion.
From an exanination of the foregoing considerations it
would appear that the aims of the insurgents which failed are
outweighed by those that succeeded.
In general, the insurgents
wanted a liquidation of the status quo.
The Okada Cabinet,
which had been upheld at tne polls on February 20, gave no in-
dication of any intention to alter its policy or to adopt a
reform progran similar to the one announced by the Hirota Cabi-
net on March 17. While the changes desired by the insurgents
have not all come about, measures toward effecting them gradu-
ally are under definite consideration. It is probably true that
the reforms desired would have had to be adopted in the course
of time owing to widespread popular sympathy for the Army's
ideas. Nevertheless, it can be safely said that the insurrection
of February 26 hastened the break-up of the status quo.
Respectfully yours,
Sosio
Joseph C. Grew.
800
GDA:C
Copy to Embassy, Peiping;
Copy to Embassy, Moscow.

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.95)
51-1
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Anri1 14, 1936.
EIT:
MAH:
Tokyo's 1746 of March 20, 1936, re-
ports in regard to the trial of Lieutenant
Colonel Aizawa for the murder of Major
General Nageta.
The press states that in view of the
fact that Aizawa's trial has been suspended
for fifteen days it would be necessary to
re-try him. No date for a new trial has
been set.
It is reported that the trial of the
persons involved in the February 26
incident, unlike the Aizawa trial, will
be strictly in camera and that there will
be less airing of political views and
more attention paid to the determining
of the guilt of the defendants.
804.00/635
W41
VTT/DLY

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.92)
51-1
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, March 20, 1936.
No. 1746.
SUBJECT:
TRIAL OF LIEUTELANT CCLONEL AIZAWA AND ITS
CONNECTION JITH THE FEBRUARY 26 INCIDENT.
CC
0
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. ANDM. I.D
ASSISTANT
894.00/635
04
lon1
MiD
CopyF E (3 81)
Divisieher
M
FAR EASTAS
PR1936
Department of Stare
30mx
PR 20 1936
The Honoratle
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
854.20/155
Supplementing the Embassy's despatch No. 1707 of
March 5, 1936, concerning the trial of Lieutenant-
Colonel Aizawa for the murder of Major-General Nagata,
I have the honor to submit a report on developments
that have come to light since the writing of that des-
patch, with particular reference to the relation between
F/FG
the trial and the Incident of Februery 26.
Recently

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
51-2
-2-
Recently the Enbassy's Military Attaché was informed
by an official of the War Cffice that former Captains Koji
Murenaka and Asaichi Isobe, former Lieutenant Zei Nishida
and Kazuteru Kita (once a "ronin" in China), all of whom
were prominently mentioned in the Aizawa trial as close
associates of the defendant, had been the real ringleaders
in the revolt although the nominal and active leaders had
been Captains Ando and Nonaka.
This information was sub-
stantiated by an announcement of the Mertial Law Head-
quarters on March 11.
According to newspaper reports, Kazuteru Kita was a
Socialist during the early part of his career and later
became corverted to out-and-out nationalism. About 1920
he  ublished a book in Shunghai entitled "Japan's Reconstruction",
which was prohibited from distribution in Japan on account
of its pernicious intermingling of leftist and rightist
ideas and its insistence upon direct action. It is said
that the book, "Tapan's Reconstruction", had a great in-
fluence on the men accused of perpetrating the May 15
assassination. Zei Mishida resigned as a lieutenant in
the Army in 1924 on account of illness and subsequen tly
joined the chauvinist movement, becoming a member of sev-
eral ultra-nationalist societies.
In 1926 he was arrested
in connection with a plot against the life of Count Makino
and others and was sentenced to five months' penal servi-
tude in l930. For the past five years he has been working
closely with Kazuteru Kita.
Furthermore, according to the ASAHI of March 5, ex-
Captain Muranaka and Zensuke Shibukawa, a graduate of the
Military Academy and one of the civilians arrested for par-
ticipation in the February 26 Incident, attended seven
sessions

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
51-3
-3-
sessions of the Aizawa trial, carefully taking notes, and
on February 17 ceased to appear at. the hearings. The dis-
closures made during the trial may thus have influenced the
cons irators in the choice of the date on which to act and
of the persons to be assassinated.
It was reported by the ASAI of March 12 that Lieuten-
ant-Colonel Aizawa would have to be completely retried be-
cause his trial had already been suspended fifteen days,
the legal limit under the Court Martial Law. DOMEI (News Agency)
stated that no date for a new trial had been set and that it
would be postponed indefinitely. In this connection it is
of interest to note, according to newspaper accounts and to
the Military Attaché's informant mentioned above, that the
trial of the officers and civilians involved in the Febru-
ary 26 Incident will be distinctly different from the trial
of the men involved in the assassination of Premier Inukai
on May 15, 1952, and from the Aizawa trial in that it will be
held strictly in camera, the accused will be denied the bene-
fit of counsel, the decisions civen will be final with no
appeal allowed, and there will be less airing of political
views and more attention paid to establishing the guilt of
and the punishment for the defendants.
A five-day conference of Anmy and Div sion Commanders
is scheduled to begin at Tokyo on April 7. Although such
conferences of Army and Division Commanders are routine
matters and take place from time to time under ordinary
circumstances, the newspapers report that the purpose of
the coming conference is to strengthen Army discipline and
to unify the control of the Amy. It remains to be seen
whether

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.93)
51-4
-4-
whether any extraor dinary measures will be taken at the
scheduled conference.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
800
GDA:C
Copy to Enbessy, Moscow;
11
1t
Peiping.

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 9, 1936.
MSM:
ROM:
Nanking's despatch No. 112, March 6,
1936, forwards a memorandum of conversation
between H. H. Kung and the Ambassador. Mr.
Kung remarked (1) that Japanese militarists
envisaged a Japanese Empire as far-flung as
the British Empire (2) that through friendly
rather than aggressive methods the Japanese
might have accomplished their "Asia for the
Asiatics" program (3) that the Japanese Navy
desired expansion towards the South Pacific
in opposition to the Army's plan for con-
tinental expansion (4) that Japanese armed
strength would be used to break down tariff
and other barriers against Japan and (5)
that "collective security" would require
814
collective action to curb Japan.
C
9
Jr
JCV/REK

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.94)
52-1
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICAD
EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
CONFIDENTIAL.
APR 28 1936
DEFARIMENT
No. 112
OF STATI
Subject:
Japanese Imperialistic Ambitions.
894.
794
CJ
X
ONI-MID
clidence
COPIES SENT TO
O. N.I. AND M. I. D.
894.00/636
VIFE
bee
lug
PAHEASTEN AFFAIR
APR 7-1936
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
AF.. 29 1936
Washington.
FILED
str:
1/
I have the honor to enclose herewith a memorandum of
remarks made by Dr. H. H. Kung, Vice President of the
Executive Yuan and Minister of Finance, in the course of
a general conversation between Dr. Kung and the Ambassador,
accompanied by Mr. Peck.
The nature
F/FG

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.98)
5
52-2
-2-
The nature of the business which occasioned the
Ambassador's call on the Minister of Finance led to one
or two remarks on the generel subject of financial assist-
ance which might, in the nature of things, be extended
to China by the United States in the near future, were
the United States so disposed, and it was apparently
these remarks which led in turn to the train of thought
indicated by Dr. Kung's observations recorded in the en-
closed memorandum.
The Department will recall that, as has been report-
ed in earlier despatches, Dr. Kung is regarded by others
and regards himself as & member of the "European-American
faction" of Chinese officials, as distinguished from the
"Pro-Japanese faction". His general view seems to be
that China's position in the future should be that of an
independent nation seeking prosperity on terms of inter-
national equality with Japan and the principal Powers,
rather than that of a nation whose security is guaranteed
by Japan and whose development is achieved through guid-
ance and essistance exclusively Japanese.
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
Wille . Pealk.
Willys H. Peck,
Counselor of Embassy.
Enclosure:
1/ Memorandum of Conversation
dated March 5, 1936.
Original and four copies to Depertment
Copy to Peiping (by courier)
Copy to Tokyo (through the Department)
710.
WRP:MM

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.98)
5-3
Nanking, Maroh 5: 1956
Subjeot: Japanese Imperialistio Ambitions.
Dr. H. H. Kung, Minister or Finance and Vice Presldent
of the Executive Yuan.
The American Ambassador.
Mr. Peok.
In the course of a general conversation Dr. Kung said
that he was some times a little surprised at the lack of
appreciation of the United States and of European Powers of
the serious threat to international peace and security of-
fered by Japanese imperialistic ambitions.
Dr. Kung remarked that in pursuit of these ambitions
China was an instrumentality through which Japanese militar-
ists hoped to acquire the power necessary to extend the
beneficent rule of the Japenese Empertor, not only over Asia,
but actually over the world. Looking upon the far-flung
British Empire, Japanese militarists did not perceive why
the Japanese sun should not shine over an equally extensive
chain of possessions.
If Japan had taken pains from the beginning to cultivate
friendly feelings on the part of the Chinese, the materiali-
zation of their dream might have been perceptibly advanced
by this time. Admitted to friendly cooperatfon, the Chinese
might heve seen something in the idea of "Asia for the
Asiatics". Owing to the realities of Japanese operations
however.

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.84)
524
 elenk for depaee mbition to 
oa.
differing ideas regarding the steps which shoule t t
in the immediate future. The army believes that it woule
be best to wrest torritory en the mialand frem the ovi
Union and from China, wherees the navy balleves that the
mext logical expansion s hould be toard ialams fn the
South Pacifie and ad jasent to the southeasterm ssest 
Laia, imeluding those in the peseessien of Earepeem 
tries. Dr. Kung referred to the well-kmem eeemomie in-
vasion by the produets of Japanese imdustries iate the
markets of the Occidental Pevers, and even fntes thee
coustries themselves. He said it vas being elsimed 
Bri ti ah werkmen in Laneashire were elethed in 
ef Jape wonld some time beeliee to 
tes  egt tree h

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.77)
52-5
thete  ele 
Sugen's precent setine ud fature lns.
rive coples to Department
copy
to Tokyo (through the Dapartment)
RP1

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 10, 1936.
EHDT
Tokyo's 1736 of March 18, 1936,
entitled "Formation of the Hirota Cabinet",
gives an account, in chronological order,
of the steps leading up to the formation
of the Hirota Cabinet and the menoeuvering
which took place behind the scenes.
The despatch was written before
Mr. Arita took office. ihile it adds
little to what ras already been reported
you may wish to glance through it.
894.00/637
W1T
WTT/DLY

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.98)
NO RECORD OF PREVIOUS
PREVIOUS ATTACHED
FE
PPEVIOUS TALLIED
PREVIOUS CHARGED
PREVIOUS INDEXED UNDER
874.0606
620

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.93)
AC
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 1736.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
894.
Tokyo, March 18, 1936.
894.
SUBJECT: FORMATION OF THE HIROTA CABINET.
For Distribution-Check
Yes
No
Grade
10
In U S A.
For
ONI MID
111
2
(S)
2.1
TREATY DIVISION
1936 AR
COPIES SENT TO
894.00/637
APB 8 - 1936
O. N.I. AND M. I.D.
DEPA RTMENT OF STATE
tole
22
1930
The Hbnorable
The secretary of State,
Washington.
APR 28
Sir:
FILED
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's telegram
1935
No. 65 of LMerch 9, 10 p.m., and to report on the events
leeding up to the formation on March 9 of the present
Japanese Cabinet under the premiership of ir. Aoki Hirota.
From the time of the occurrence of the February 26
incident, it seemed generally taken for granted that a
change of Cabinet was in order. To tide over the inter-
F/FG
val necessarily required to create a new cabinet, how-
ever, the former one continued to function.
The

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
The Okada Cabinet (with the exception of Premier
Okada and Finence Minister Takahashi whose deaths had
been officially announced by the /ar Office) tendered
their collective resignation the evening of February
26 but continued in office in accordance with the orders
of the mperor pending the organization of a new cabinet.
An official announcement appearing in the OFFICIAL GAZETTE
extra of February 26 stated that Home Minister Fumio
Goto had been ordered to assume the post of provisionel
acting Premier and the announcement of the assignment
to Commerce and Industry Minister Chuji Machida of the
Finance portfolio appeared in an OrFICIAL GAZETTE extra
of February 27.
Although news of the safety of Premier Okada was not
made public until 4:50 p.m., rebruary 29, the press re-
ported that he called at the Imperial Pelace on February
28 after having earlier the same day submitted his re-
signation to the mperor. An ite dated February 28,
which appeared in the OFFICIAL GAzETTE of February 29,
stated that Home Minister Fumio Goto was relieved of his
additional post as provisional acting Premier.
Thenceforth until the formation of the Hirota Cabinet
on March 9, the Okada Cabinet continued to function with
its personnel unchanged(with the exception of the loss of
Finance Minister Takanashi and the assumption of his port-
folio by the Minister of Co merce and Industry).
The Imperial conmand of March 4 to Prince Konoye
to form a new cabinet, which he declined on grounds of
ill-health, followed by a smiliar command on march 5 to
Foreign Minister Hirota have been previously reported. *

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.96)
- 3-
The negotiations culminating in the installation of the
present cabinet under the premiership of r. Hirota are
reviewed below.
Mr. Hirota entered energetically upon the task of
Cabinet making and early reports indicated that the com-
pleted Cabinet line-up might be expected very soon. It
was reported that Mr. Hirote in personel calls on March 6
on the presidents of inseito, Seiyukai, Social Mass and
Kokumin and the leaders of Showakai had elicited pledges
of support or co-operation from all political perties.
Also a list of Cabinet members said to have been tenta-
tively decided upon early Merch 6 vas reported by the
JAPAN ADVRTISER as folloWs:
Foreign - Mr. Shigeru Yoshida: (former Ambassador to Italy)
Home - Mr. Takukichi Kawesaki (Minister of Education in
the Okada Cabinet)
Finance - Mr. Eiichi Baba (President of the Hypothec Bank
of Japan)
Wer - General Count Juichi Terauchi
Navy - Admiral Osami  agano.
Justice - Mr. Naoshi Ohara (Justice Minister in the
Okada Cabinet)
vr
Education - Mr. Hidejiro Magata (member of the House of
Peers)
Agriculture and Forestry - Mr. Yonezo Maeda (Minister of
Comnerce and Industry in the Inukai Cabinet)
V
Comerce and Industry- Mr. Chikuhei Nakajima(prominent
munitions manufacturer)
Overseas- Dr. Hiroshi Shimomura(Vice President of the
Asahi Publishing Company)
1
Mr. Keikichi Tanomogi, Minseito member of the Diet, and
L.
r. Sonyu Otani were also mentioned but without posts
yet being decided.
Although it was supposed that in the neming of
General Tereuchi as prospective Mer Minister, Lir. Hirota
had

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.99)
-4 -
A had acted upon the recommendetion of the Supreme War
Council, news of a meeting of the Supreme War Council
the morning of March 6 at which time it was decided that
the proposed Cabinet did not meet the requirements of
the situation was reported to have reeched Mr. Hirota
at ll a.m. of the 6th.
Negotiations between Mirota and Terauchi were begun
immediately, representatives of each celling on the other
and at 2:40 p.m. of the 6th, General Terauchi called on the
Premier-designate to discuss the matter. At that inter-
view, General Terauchi was reported by NIPPON DEMPO to
have made the following stetement:
"I was approached yesterday with the offer of the
War portfolio. In your attitude and in the line-
up of the new Cabinet, however, the army regrets
that it cannot discover any determination or strength
to make fundamental reforms that will do away with
the old evils, provide adequate national defense
and enforce national policies with vigor. Under
the circumstances I find it impossible to join the
Cabinet."
Mr. Hirote's reply is reported as follows:
"I am willing to listen to the views of the Army at
any time. I shall think the matter over and discuss
it with you again."
The following stetement is attributed to General Terauchi
upon his return to the ar Office:
"The Cebinet which is to be organized to liquidate the
unprecedented situation created by the recent outbreak
must have determination and courage to effect radical
reforms, to do away with traditional evils, and to
carry out a strong and positive policy in providing
adequate national defense. There must be an end to
the old reliance on arbitrary measures and weak com-
promises in supnort of the status quo or to support
negative policies. It is the unified opinion of the
Army that there must be renovation of national ad-
ministration through positive policies and that
anything that is compromising or reactionery would
not only not meet the situation but aggravate it,
creating

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
creating an everlasting source of evil. I doubt if
a Cabinet which does not fulfill these requirements
can cope with the difficulties besetting the nation at
home and abroad."
In the evening edition of the JIJI published on March 6,
the following five candidates for Cabinet members were
mentioned as being objectionable to the Army:
1. Mr. Yoshida as Foreign Minister because of his
family connection(son-in-law) with Count Makino,
former Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal.
2.
Dr. Shimomura(although the specific objections were
not mentioned, it is understood that his position
as Vice-President of the ASAHI, the editorial tone
of which paper was considered to be too capitalistic
was the cause of the Army's disfavor. Incidentally,
it will be recalled that the ASAHI was attacked by
the insurgents on rebruary 26.)
Mr. Kawasaki because he is a party man.
4.
Retention of Mr. Ohera as Justice Minister was
objectionable as prejudicing clarification of
the nationel polity.(Thet this objection was only
a convenient tag and thet the Army's real demand
was a thorough-going reform in that department's
administretion seems a reasonable conclusion.)
5.
Mr. Nakajima because of his interest in the manu-
facture of munitions.
It was suggested in the newspapers from time to time
that the Army opposed Mr. Hirota as being unfit to carry
out the strong measures of national policy which the situation
made imnerative and tat therefore the chances of his success
were extremely slight. The course of the negotiations from
March 6 to march 9 indicated, however, that the objections of
the Army were focused principally upon certain individuals
slated for posts in the new Cabinet and that there was no funda-
mental. distrust of Mr. rirota or of the policies which it might
be expected thet he would pursue as prime minister.
Mr.

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.98)
-6 -
Mr. Hirota wes aided and counseled at what was
termed the "Cabinet Headquarters" by a group of his in-
timate associates. At first vir. Hirota's chief-of-staff
was Mr. Shigeru Yoshide, former Ambassador to Rome and his
choice for Foreign minister. An indication that Mr.Yoshida
would probably be sacrificed was found in the newspaper
report of March 8 that he had been replaced on the 7th
by Dr. Eiichi Baba as chief-of-steff in the negotiations.
Commenting on the rejection of Mr. Toshida, it was
revealed to a member of the staff in conversations with re-
sponsible and high-ranking officials of the Foreign Office
that certain elements in the Foreign Office were not too
pleased at the tentative selection of ir. Yoshida as Foreign
Minister, because of doubts as to his administrative ability.
It was stated that Mr. Yoshida's connection with the elder
statesmen through his father-in-law, Count Makino, placed
him in a position to act as go-between and to give r.
Hirota advance notice of the choice for premier and accounts
to some extent for the remarkeble promptness with which
the first tentative line-up of the Hirota Cabinet became
known. As a matter of fact, this line-up wes published
before vir. Hirota had concluded his negotiations with
various groups and caused considerable embarrassment.
This, together with the opposition in other quarters
to Yoshida's appointment finally decided Mr. Hirota to
assume the Foreign portfolio himself. Up to this time
Mr. Yoshida had been acting as Mr. Hirota's lieutenant
in the Cabinet negotiations, but was replaced by Dr. Baba
as noted above.
The

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.96)
- 7 -
A
The fact that the negotiations with the Army leaked
out to the press in the form of the so-celled Army de-
mands was considered to reveal an excusable lack of tact
2
 and finesse on the pert of ir. Yoshide. Under the onus
of resnonsibility for the very serious events of February
26 and the following few days, the Army had egreed to
a thorough-going housecleaning which included placing on
the reserve list the senior army members of the Supreme
Military Council.* The Army thus considered that it wes
entitled to demand that certain other ministries, par-
ticularly the Home, Justice and Laucation Ministries
should be looked into and accordingly opposed the selec-
tion for these posts of men of the same caliber as their
predecessors, picked for reasons of political expediency
and from whom, it wes believed, little improvement could
be expected.
This attitude had much sunport, both in and out of
Gover ment circles, es auring the past year there have been
reports to the effect that the Ministry of Justice needed
thorough investigation. There have been complaints of
illegal treatment of suspected persons by the procurators
and in one note-worthy trial the accused persons re-
pudiated on the witness stand practically all the testi-
mony the procurators had obtained from them. They
insisted that the procurators had misused them and ob-
tained statements under auress, with the assistance of
police
* Embassy's telegram No. 63, merch 7, 9 p.m.
/606

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.98)
- 8 -
police and prison officials. There have been other
charges, some of them serious, against police and
municipal ofricials.
The charge has also appeered
in press reports that admission to higher institutions
of learning was obtainable by the use of influence
and even of money, and that diplomas in certain insti-
tutions ere for sale.
In some ceses official investi-
gations were instituted. All this reflected on the
Home and Education Departments, and there has been a
considerable demand for reforms in all three of these
branches of the Government.
The premature leak to the newspapers of the
negotiations with .r. Hirota placed the Army in a very
embarrassing position. It was made to appear that the
Army, unhumbled by its responsibility in connection
with the rebruary 26 incident was prepared to balk
all rensonable efforts to place the government on a
working basis again. After the matter had received press
publicity there was no escape from this position and the
Army as obliged to play the part of the scapegoat to the
end.
For a time, it seemed that the Hirota Cabinet
might never be reelized but gradually, from the time
that Mr. Yoshnida vas replaced in the key vosition by Dr.
Babe, negotiations progressed end that they were ulti-
mately successful must be attributed, at Jeast partially,
to his greater tact and skill.
Another epproach to the fulfillment of the Army's
demends became known with the announcement at 6:10 p.m.,
March 7, by r. Shohei Fujinuma, who had been chosen
Chief Secretary of the new Cabinet, that Dr. Hiroshi
Shimomura had declined the offer of a Cabinet post.
General

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
- 9-
General Terauchi made his second call at the
Foreign Minister's official residence at 10:20 a.m.,
March 7, and his negotiations were seconded by Vis-
count Nagekage Okabe, the Parliamentary War Vice
Minister, whose several visits to the "Cabinet Head-
quarters" were reported by the press. Statements
attributed by the press to Terauchi and Okabe, as well
as to Mr. Hirota's advisers, indicated that progress
was being made and that .r. Hirota was evidencing
a willingness to compromise.
The afternoon of merch 8, r. irota held what
appears to have been a decisive conference with General
Terauchi end Admiral .agano, his choice for Navy Minister,
in which the Vice Ministers of the War and Navy Departments,
the director of the Army Afrairs Bureau and the director
of the avy ureau participated. Following this con-
ference the press announced thet the following posts
hed been decided upon:
Premier end Foreign Minister- r. Koki Hirota
Finance Minister
-Dr. Eiichi Baba
War Minister
-General Count Juichi
Terauchi
Navy Minister
-Admiral Osami Negano
Justice Minister
-Dr. Raisaburo Hayashi
(President of the Court of
Cassation)
Agriculture and Forestry
Minister
-Mr. Yonezo Liaeda(former
Minister of Comnerce and
Industry and member of
Seiyukai Party.)
The rejection of Mr. Ohara as Justice Minister and the
choice of Dr. Heyashi was the fulfillment of one more
of the Army's reported demends. On one point, however,
Mr. irota had not yet yielded, namely, representation
of the political parties in the new Cabinet and when the
personnel

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
- 10 -
personnel of the new Cabinet was definitely decided on
March 9 it wes discovered that apparently in this matter
alone did r. irota have his own way.
The JAPAN TI ES of merch 9 reports that Mr. Hirota
made the following statement at 12:15 a.m. iarch 9 in
regard to the formation of a new Jabinet:
"The present internal and external condition of Japan
demands the reformation of the former faulty adminis-
tration and the adjustment of international relations
in order to cope with the present emergency. The
cause of the recent unpleasant incident is elso be-
lieved to have been such conditions in the past, and
thus it is the time when we have to meke a funda-
mental reform. Thus, political parties, military
groups end the bureaucrats should all unite to re-
move such past evils, and to establish a firm and
permanent national policy. Thus, in selecting the
personnel of a new Cabinet, men who truly recognize
the present condition of the country and are burning
with sincerity to serve the nation should be gathered
together, regardless of their positions or experience.
These men should firmly unite in oraer to comply
with the Imperial wish, and also give an adninistra-
tion a propriate to the existing condition."
The final interview between r. irota and the service
ministers or the new Cabinet convened at 9:15 a.m., -arch 9.
Final discussions were reported to have taken place in re-
gard to the policy and personnel of the new Cabinet and
evidently an agreement vas reached as the final line-up of
the new abinet became known the same afternoon.
Mr. Hirota was formally invested with the office of
Premier by the Emperor et 8:30 p.m., march 9 at the Imperial
Palace and imnediately following his investiture the new
Premier presented the members of his Cabinet who were like-
wise instelled.
The personnel of the new Cabinet, announced in an
OFFICIAL GAZETTE extra of March 9, 1936, is as follows:
Premier

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
Premier and concurrently
Minister for Foreign Affairs
Koki Hirota
Minister of Home Affairs and
concurrently inister of
Education
Shigenosuke Ushio
Minister of Finance
Eiichi Baba
Minister of Wer and President
of the Manchurien Aftairs
Bureau
General Count Juichi
Terauchi
Minister of Navy
Admiral Osami Nagano
Minister of Justice
Raisaburo Hayashi
Minister of Agriculture and
Forestry
Toshio Shimada
Minister of Commerce and
Industry
Takukichi Kawasaki
Minister of Communications
Keikichi Tenomogi
Minister of ailways
Yonezo Meeda
Minister of Overseas Affairs
Hidejiro Nagata
In the same issue of the OFFICIAL GAlETIE the Members of
the previous Jabinet were listed by neme with the announce-
ment that they had been relieved of their respective posts.
It was also announced that the retiring Mavy Minister
Admiral Mineo Osumi was appointed a Supreme War Councillor.
Probably the most noteworthy choice in the above list
of new ministers, who has not been mentioned before, is Mr.
Ushio who holds the two portfolios, Home Af airs and Educa-
tion. He is a member of the house of Peers, a former Vice
Minister of Home Affairs end has no party affiliation.
The pre s reports thet he was offered the post at noon
on the 9th and promptly accepted.
From the political
standpoint

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
-12-
standpoint the Home Ministry is of the greatest strategio
importance and hence it may safely be assumed that the
military is pleased that it should be entrusted to a non-
party man.
In the above list the two major parties are repre-
V
sented by two members each. Commerce and Industry Minister
Kewasaki, Education Minister in the Okada Cabinet and
the only hold-over(except hirota) from thet Cabinet, and
Conmunications Minister Tanomogi are the representatives
of the Minseito Party.
The Seiyukai Party is re-
presented by inister of ailways Maeda and Minister of
Agriculture and Forestry Shimada. Mr. Nakajima, to whom
the Army was understood to have objected for reasons
mentioned above, was given no place in the new Cabinet.
It is expected that the Premier will shortly find
someone to take over the Foreign Ministry. The Japanese
V
press has mentioned r. acniro Arita, present Ambassador
to China, as the likeliest candidate but no official
announceent has yet appeared to substantiate the rumor.
It was renorted in the press that the Education portfolio
was offered to Dr. Sanji Mikami, Member of the House
of Peers and rofessor Emeritus or Tokyo Imperial Uni-
versity and that when he declined it was decided to give
that post, in addition to the Home Affairs portfolio, to
Mr. Ushio. It is expected that someone will be found to
take over the ducation Ministry but as yet no candidate
has received prominent mention.
A

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.95)
- 13-
A discussion of the probable political significance
of this change of Cabinet and an appraisal of the line
of policy which it is anticipated will be followed is
omitted here as these subjects are being treated in a
separate despatch.
Respectfully yours,
Soset.Tren
Joseph C. Grew
800.2
CAC:r
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
8
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
THI
 Apr11 18, 1936.
U:
Despatch No. 1733 from the Embassy at
Tokyo discusses in considerable detail the
statement of policy issued by the Hirota
cabinet and gives an interpretation of the
aims of the new Japanese government as set
forth in that rather vague document. It is
suggested that you may wish to read this
interesting despatch, which was prepared by
Mr. Dickover. However, the following
summary outlines the Embassy's comments and
conclusions.
The statement of policy by the Hirota
government corresponds in the main with the
demands made by the army as conditions pre-
cedent to army cooperation with the new
cabinet. These conditions w ere (1) the
stamping out of internationalism and
liberalism in Japan, (2) strengthening of
Jananese military fcrces, (3) remedial
economic measures, and (4) the adoption
of a "positive" foreign policy directed
presumably tcward China and the U.S.S.R.
Until concrete plans have been drawn
up by the government it will be difficult
to estimate the manner in which these
policies will be carried cut. However, the
statement indicates that certain definite
trends may be predicted. The new govern-
ment

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
ment will be more nationalistic than
previous governments; it will endeavor
to correct sone of the maladjustments in
the economic, political and social life of
the nation, but it will undertake no hasty
or radical reforms.
It anpears that most of the emphasis
in the statement of policy is placed upon
the necessity for reforms in the economic
life of the nation: chenges in the tax
systen to effect a more equitable distri-
bution of wealth, state control of key
industries and provisions for unemployment
and cld age insurance anpear to be under
consideration. These predicted measures are
causing considerable worry in Japanese
business circles.
r. Hirota has repeatedly declered that
the foreign policy of the new government
will not differ in any essential respect
from that previously followed by Mr. Hirota.
The new "positive" fcreign policy applies
only to the U.S.S.R. and China and will be
"positive" only in that it will mean the
speeding up of policy already enunciated
and followed. In regard to the United
States Mr. Hirota has again declared that
good relations with the United States would
be the "corner stone" of his nolicy even
more than before.
The

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 3 -
The public in Japan has greeted the
statement of nolicy with no great enthusiasm.
The public attitude seems to be that the
meaning of the statement denends upon the
will of the government to give effect to
its declarations.
894.00/638
N11.m.H
FE:WTT/DLY

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.94)
8
EUROPLAN AFFAIRS
MAY 1- 1936
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 1733
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, March 19, 1936.
SUBJECT:
THE POLICY OF THE HIROTA CABINET AND PUBLIC
OPIMION THEREANENT.
No
6 3.
Qui - n,D
CONFIDETLAL.
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. ANDM.I.D.
Copay in FE(381)
894.00/638
MAY
41936
Divisien of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
NOTED
APR 7 - 1936
OF SA
imorable
The Secretary of state,
Jashington.
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's telegram
61L
No. 75 March 18, 11 a.m., concerning the statement of
FILED
1/
policy issued by the Mirota Cabinet late on March 17, and
1936
to enclose herewith a clipping from the JAPAN TIMES AND
MAIL of March 18, 1936, containing the text of the state-
ment, as translated by Domei. The translation has been
checked by the mbassy and found to be substantially correct,
except that, where Domei translated the characters referring
to

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
to the foreign policy as "a consistent and coherent
positive foreign policy", the Embassy believes that a
better translation would be "an independent and positive
foreign policy". This translation has, therefore, been
used throughout this despatch.
Basis of the Policy.
When the Hirota Cabinet was in process of formation,
the Japanese newspapers reported that the Army authorities
had agreed to cooperate with r. Hirota in the formation
of the new Government if the latter would accept and en-
deavor to execute the four basic desires of the military,
as follows:
1. Clarification of the national polity. This refers
to the so-called "inobe" or"Emperor-organ" theory, to which
the Army is bitterly opposed, and to the stamping out of
internationalism and liberalism in Japan.
2. Repletion of nationel defense. This refers to
the Army's desire for a better cir force, capable of en-
gaging the Soviet air force in the Far ast: for the com-
pletion of the mechanization of the Army; and for the
strengthening of the Japanese forces in "Manchukuo" and at
home.
3. Stabilization of the livelihood of the people.
This refers to remedies for some of the economic and political
maledjustments in Japen; to state control of industries and
finances; and to readjustment of taxation.
4. Reformation of diplomacy and the adoption of a
"positive" foreign policy. This refers primarily to the
Army's

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3-
Army's dissatisfaction with the alleged "weak-kneed"
diplomatic methods employed in dealing hitherto with
China and the Soviet Union.
A clipping from the OSAKA MAINICHI AND TOKYO NICHI
NICHI, English edition, of march 15, 1936, giving the
2/
views of the military in greater detail, is enclosed.
Upon examining the statement of policy as issued
by Premier Mirota on arch 17, it will be found that
the platform corresponds in the main with the demands
of the Army. In regard to the first demand of the
Army, for the clarificetion of the national polity
issue, the statement of policy declares
"Therefore, it is the first duty of the
Gover ment to clarify the concept of our
immutable national polity(the solidarity
of all the subjects under one Sovereign)
at the seme time eradicating
thoughts incompatible with our national
polity."
The statement of policy has little to say on the
subject of the strengthening of national defense, ex-
cept to state that
"The Government intend to . . . provide
fully for national defense".
The statement also connects the foreigr policy and
national defense vith the national policy of culti-
vating cordial relations with all countries and of
carryins out Janan's mission as the stabilizing force
in East Asie. This is probably a reflection of Mr.
Hirota's reported theory thet a nation's diplomacy
is

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
is only an expression of the strength, political, eco-
nomic, cultural and especially military, of the state,
and that the silent power of the actual strength of a
state determines the success or failure of a diplomet's
efforts.
In regard to the Army's demand for stabilization
of the life of the people, Mr. Hirota was somewhat more
explicit:
"It is the urgent necessity of the moment
to enrich the basic sources of our national
strength by expending trade and industry
and also by meking such financial end economic
improvements as reforms in taxation and banking
systems in conformity with the progress of the
country. Of late, unhealthy social trends have
multiplied, exerting a heavy pressure on the
people's livelihood, and producing conflicts
of interests in all uarters."
The Army's fourth demand was for the reformation of
diplomacy ana the adoption of a "positive" foreign policy.
In the statement of policy Mr. Hirota lists the main points
of Japan's foreign policy, namely, the cultivation of
cordial relations with all countries, the promotion of
mutual well-being and common prosperity between Japan
and other coutries in ast Asia, Japan's mission as the
stabilizing force in ast Asia, and the inseparable re-
lationship between Japan and "Manchukuo". In connection
with these, r. nirota stated that
"The Government intend to inaugurate an independent
and positive foreign policy and at the same time to
provide fully for national defense."
As can be seen from the above, there can be little
doubt that the statement of policy issued by the Hirota
Cabinet was inspired by the military, or at least drawn
up in accordance with the wishes of the military in order
to

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
to reach a modus operandi which would permit the Cabinet
to remain in pover.
It cannot be assumed, however, that
r. Hirota and others of the Ministers of State are in
entire agreement with the wishes of the military. That
they have agreed with the wishes of the Army sufficiently
to issue a statement of policy in accordance with the
demands of the military indicetes only that the civil
government has adopted the only way out of a most diffi-
cult situation - e situation which would possibly have
led to radical changes in the Government of Japan had
not a workable compromise been reached. Moreover, it
should not be assumed that the civil government has
allowed itself to be dictated to by the handful of
soldiers who staged the abortive insurrection of Febru-
ary 26-29. The views held by the insurgents were in
fact the views held b
a very lerge part of the military
and by a considerable section of the civil population es
well.
The bulk of the military and practically all of the
civil ponulation disagreed with the methods
adopted by
the insurgent troops on February 26, but there undoubtedly
was and is a great deel of sympathy for the views
of the
insurgents. The civil government, faced with this wide-
spread sentiment, had no choice but to reach a compromise
with the military, in the hope of carrying out necessary
reforms by degrees and thereby avoiding the violent upset
in the life of the nation which would have been caused by
a more radical form of government.
Analysis of the Statement of Policy.
Until the various Ministries concerned have produced
their concrete plans for the execution of the policies
enunciated

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.98)
- 6-
enunciated by the Cabinet as a whole, it will be diffi-
cult to meke a precise evaluation of the trends indi-
cated by the statement of policy, but a study of the
document cleerly shows certain definite ideas which
may or may not be fully carried out in the future.
As is stated in the document, the Cabinet believes
that its first duty is to clarify the concept of the
national polity, which is defined as the unity of the
nation under the Emperor. The Japenese nation hes
always been renowned for its singular unity and for
its loyalty to its Sovereign, but apparently the
present loyalty end unity does not satisfy the mili-
tary and others of like mind. Therefore educetional
reforms are to be instituted and thoughts(liberelism,
socialism, and even such mild divergences from accepted
thought
the "Minobe Theory") incompatible with the
Jepanese national polity are to be eradicated. It will
be observed, however, that this is to be done "to main-
tain the sanctity of the Constitution and the laws of
the country", indicating that any changes which will
be made will not be radical but will be within the
framework of the present Constitution. It does not
augur well for the future intellectual progress of
Japan, however, if the minds of the people are to be
confined within the mentel strait-jacket of strict
national orthodoxy.
The plans for the stabilization of the livelihood
of the people are causing the greatest pertubation
among

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
among the financiers, industrialists and traders. No
student of Japanese economy can doubt the advisability
of making adjustments of the distribution of wealth
and the incidence of taxation, which at present is
bearing too heavily upon the agriculturist and small
business man and too lightly upon the great financier
and industrialist. Some changes will undoubtedly be
made, but the extent of the changes and their effect
upon the economic life of the nation are causing con-
siderable worry, which is reflected in the steady falls
on the Japanese stock exchange. It is confidently
expected that there will be changes in the taxation
system, whereby the monied class, the financiers
and the industrialists will have to bear a larger share
of the burden of taxation, but it is not known whether
or not these cnanges will be greet enough to cause a
serious upheaval in the economic life of the nation.
As a prominent financier of Osaka stated to a member of
the staff of the Embassy, We can only hope that they
will not soak us too hard". The "reform in the banking
system" it is believed refers to efforts which will be
made to grent easier money to small industrialists and
traders. Although it is not so declared in the statement
of policy, it is renorted that another nlank in the Cebi-
net's platform consists of state control of certain key
industries, notably the generetion and distribution of
electric power, the making of iron and steel, the refining
and

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.98)
- 8 -
and distribution of petroleum products and the manu-
facture of automobiles. This state control, however,
is partly connected with the development of industry and
trade and partly connected with national defense. It
is also believed that systems of health, disablement,
unemployment end old-age insurance will be instituted
by the state, if the present Cabinet remains in office
for a sufficient length of time to formulate suitable
plans.
The above reported plans of the Cabinet point to
the inauguretion of a period of "controlled economy
in Japan. To a certain extent there will also be a trend
toward state socialism, which, as has been exolained
in previous desnatches from the Embassy, is curiously
interwoven with extreme reactionism in the minds of the
Japanese militery - largely, it is believed, because of
their hatred of the modern capitalist class.
As is stated in the declaration of policies of the
Hirota Cabinet, the new Government intends to adopt an
independent and positive foreign policy". No definite
announcement of the details of this policy has yet been
made and probably none will be made, but as r. Hirota
himself assured me on March 13, the foreign policy of
the new Government will not differ in any essential .
regard from that followed by Mr. Hirota when he occu-
nied only the post of Minister for Foreign Affairs.
The new "positive" foreign policy applies only to
Soviet Russia and China, and will be "positive" only in
that it will mean the speeding up of policies already
enunciated and followed. In regard to Soviet Russia,
the

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
- 9 -
the policy of Mr. Hirota is to avoid war by the peaceful
settlement of incidents as they erise and the Army's poliey
is to avoid the possibility of danger from the Soviet
troops by augmenting the Japanese forces in Manchuria.
In regard to China, Mr. rirota will endeavor to adjust
relations on the basis of the three-point program, namely,
the cessation of anti-Jepanese propaganda and activities,
the recognition of the existence of "vianchukuo" in so far
as factual relations ere concerned, but not necessarily
reaching to de jure recognition, and Sino-Japanese co-
operation in combating conmunism. It is generally be-
lieved, however, both in Japan and in China, that ir.
Hirota, having been compelled by force of circumstances
to relinquish his former "conciliation diplomacy" and
to adopt "independent and positive diplomacy", will in the
future take a more determined attitude in forcing the
three points upon China. Toward the Western countries,
it is believed that Mr. Hirote will continue his former
policy of friendship and conciliation. In my recent
conversation with the Prime Minister he reminded me of
his statement at our first meeting in 1933 that good re-
lations with the United States would be the "cornerstone"
of his policy and he seid that now, even more than before
this policy would "prevail".
Little is as yet known as to the details of the agreement
which Mr. Hirota reached with the military when he pro-
mised to "provide fully for national defense", but NIPPON
DEMPo reported that the Army asked for additional appro-
priations amounting to two billion yen, to be spent over
the

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
the period from 1937 to 1942 and to be used for the
expansion of the eir force, the completion of the
mechanization of the Army, the addition of several
divisions to the Army, and the arranging of mobilization
of industries in war-time. The funds for this pro-
gram are to be obtained by the issuance of more "red-ink
bonds (the Takahashi policy of gradual reduction of
such honds having apparently been abandoned with his
death) and by the increase of revenue obtained by taxa-
tion reform. The weight of this enormous program of
armaments expansion is enother factor causing worry
to the capitalists and industrialists of Japan.
In the statement of policy of the lirota Cabinet,
it will be noted that there is mention of "reforms
in administrative structure". It is assumed that
this refers to the Army's desire for the abolition of
certein governmentel departments and the creation of
new departments. It is understood that the Army wishes
to combine the present Ministries of Railways and of
Communications into one; to combine the present Minis-
tries of Conmerce and Industry and of Agriculture and
Forestry into one to be known as the Ministry of In-
dustry; to abolish the Ministry of Overseas Affairs,
whose duties would be taken over by a Bureau under
direct control of the Cabinet; to abolish the Cabinet
Inquiry Council and to enlarge the Cabinet Inquiry
Bureau; to combine the air forces of the Army and Navy
under an independent Ministry of Air, which will also
control

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.99)
- 11 -
control civilian aviation; and perhaps to organize
a Ministry of ropagande.
It is believed that it can sefely be essumed that
the new Government will be more nationalistic than
previous Governments; thet it will endeavor to correct
some of the maladjustments in the economic, political
and sociel life of the nation; but thet it will under-
take no hesty, ill-considered or radical reforms(it will
be noted that in the concluding paragraph of the stete-
ment, r. irota declares that "hile over-hasty actions
will be avoided through the wisdom of the people and a
thorough understanding of the public sentiment, the
Government will take resolute steps in order to achieve
what it believes to be right"). At the same time, it
can be expected that, for some time to come and until
the inevitable reection sets in, the intense nationalist
point of view will have an even greater influence in
governnental affairs than in the past.
Official and Public Opinion of the Cabinet and its
Policics.
The designation of ir. hirota as Premier was well
received by the Japanese nation as a whole, and the Army
was criticized quietly for its opposition to the Hirota
Cabinet as originally conceived. Although a very con-
siderable section of the nation is in sympathy with the
aims of the insurgents, it was generally felt that the
Army hed brought disgrace upon Japen by the methods
employed in the insurrection of February 26 and, under
the circumstances, that the proper role of the Army
was

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
- 12 -
was to keep in the background as far es possible.
The JAPAN TIMES AND MAIL, in its issue of Maroh 7,
rather boldly and humorously explained the situation
as follows:
"His Majesty the Emperor commanded Mr. Koki
Hirota to form his Cabinet, but it seems
that the Army is insisting to select the
personnel of the Hirota Cabinet and decide
its policy. The Miyako Shimbun says that
in interfering with the plan of Mr. Hirota
to form his Cabinet, the Army is disre-
garding the Imperial Command given to the
Foreign Minister. According to the state-
ment issued by Count General Juichi Tera-
uchi, the Army objects to the liberalistic
color of the persons already selected by
r. Hirota. Liberalism is defined by a
dictionary "broad, popular, progressive,
inclined to democratic or republican ideas".
Thus what the Army desires may be said to
be something "narrow, unpopular, unpro-
gressive, and undemocratic."
The Army, however, not without considerable support
from other elements both in and out of the Govern-
ment, proceeded to dictate to ir. Hirota the personnel,
in part at least, of his Cebinet, with the natural
result that the Cebinet, as eventually formed, was
regarded as being the result of a compromise with
a section of the nation temporarily in disgrace,
and consequently was received with some misgivings.
The ASAHI congratulated Mr. Hirota upon his
success in forming a Cabinet but aptly remarked that,
had Mr. Hirota not listened to the wishes of the
military, his Government could not have been stable.
The ROUn IN thought that as the Army was the center
of the recent disturbances, it was also the back-
bone of the new Cabinet. Therefore it doubted the
strength

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
-13 -
strength of the Cabinet. The NICHI NICHI considered
the new Cabinet as strong in that it had the backing of
the Army and weak in that in itself it lacked the strength
to oppose the Army. Consequently the newspaper believed
that the Cabinet's policy would be "safety first". The
YOMIURI thought that the new Cabinet was not exactly the
type desired by the nation, but considering that it was
formed under the circumstences of stress and haste,
it wes a notable accomplishment. There was not much hope
for the future of the abinet, however, as it lacked
independence, being dependent upon the Army, end there-
fore lacked the strength to pursue strong policies.
The JIJI declared that r. Hirota had done his best in
forming the abinet and that now the duty of the nation
is to refrain from obstructing him in his difficult
task. The newspaper added that the Army's duty, now that
its wishes were in the main granted, was to re-establish
strict military discipline. The CHUGAI SHOoYO stated that
the fact that the new C binet nad to make concessions
to the Army added to its responsibility to the nation.
-.ewspaper opinion on the whole, therefore, vas not unkind,
but was certainly not hopeful of the success of the new
Government. It should be understood, however, that any
new Government in Japan is apt to be greeted with jeers
and complaints.
The statement of policies of the Hirota Cabinet was
eagerly awaited by all classes in Japan, as it was felt,
in view of the circumstances under which the Cabinet was
born

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
born, that it would be necessary for the Cabinet to
enunciate concrete policies designed to correct the
faults in the nationel structure which had brought
about the disturbances. The military and reectionary
elements, as vell as a considerable section of the
great mass of the people, eagerly hoped for some
expression of projected reforms in the political
end economic structure, vwhile the capitalists
fesrfully hoped that the innovations would not be
as bad as it seemed they might be.
The vague
and abstract statement of policy which finally ap-
peared late on march 17 therefore was a surprise to
most of the population. But, as wes aptly remarked
by one nevsnaper, if the statement was vague, it there-
fore lent itself to compromises.
According to IPPON DElPo, the military end naval
authorities were not entirely satisfied with the Hirota
statement of policy. They felt that "such stetements,
hovever nicely worded, are valueless unless those re-
sponsible for them are sincerely desirous of living
up to them". "A platform is important only when
there is a will to carry it out". "The statement
just issued merely indicates the administrative prin-
cinles of the Government. Whether we get gold or dross
depends upon the attitude of the Government toward the
statement". "We shall rely upon what the Premier and
other Ministers said at the Cabinet meeting and await
results."

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
-15 -
results." "The Navy will watch the Government". These
seem to be rather thinly veiled threats against the new
Cabinet, implying that if they do not carry out the promises
anparently made to the military, something unspecified will
happen.
The newspapers in general also denounced the statement
of policy as being too abstrect and not filling the needs
of the nation at the moment. The ASAHI stated that the
announcement did not contain eny concrete manifestations
of the policies of the Government, but excused the Cabinet
because of the haste in which it was formed, which pre-
vented the formulation of concrete policies. The JIJI
criticized the statement as being too vague and lacking
concrete policies, especially in regard to reforms in the
Army and to economic and financial questions. The CHUGAI
SfOGYo stated that the public expected the Government to
produce its exact policies and plans end remerked that
"In the present ennouncement we find, not the vigor of
the Government to enforce its policies, but only a
conglomeration of different opinions submitted from
different sources". The TOKYO NICHI MICHI stated that
the announcement of policy clearly showed traces of com-
promise between the radical and conservative elements,
but added that it did not object to compromise and was
interested in, not the letter of the abstract statement,
but the undercurrent of thought.
The JAPAN TIMES AND
MAIL stated thet, "But if the statement of policy is
itself vague in regard to definite issues, there can be
no doubt of the primary intent it conveys, which is a
serious

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.97)
-16-
serious realization of the need for fundamental and
foundation-establishing reform, not exclusively in
the armed services but throughout the Stete." "The
nation confidently expects the 'driving power' of the
present Goverrment to cope with the crisis which
confronts the Empire, both internationally and internelly."
The YOIURI thinks that the statement of policy wes pur-
posely mede vague and abstract, in order that Mr. Hirota
may be in a position to move ceutiously.
While the Hirota Cabinet and its policies have
thus received considerable criticism, on the whole it
is believed that the nation is well-disposed toward
Mr. Hirota and the members of his Cabinet end sincerely
hones thet he will succeed in the difficult tesk of
stabilizing the situetion.
Resnectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
EnclosureS: Clinping from the JAPAN TIMES AND MAIL, of
March 18, 1936.
Clipping from the CSAKA MAINICHI AND TOKYO
NICHI ICHI of March 15, 1936.
800.
ERD:r
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
'"
HoscoW.
Receiveu

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to
The Japan Times.
despatch No. 1733 of
March 19, 1936 from Tokyo.
Tokyo, Wednesday, March 18, 1936.
'In the wake of the extraordinary
For Trade Expansion
incident I have received the Imperial
"It is the urgent necessity of the
Command to form a Cabinet. This
moment to enrich the basic sources.
Is an honor which I had not antici-
of our national strength by expand.
.pated, and which I scarcely deserve.
ing trade and industry and also by
for I keenly feel the vast responsi-
making such financlal and economic
bilities of my offce.
improvements as reforms in taxation
"Today our country is confronted
and bankng systems in conformity
by a number of internal and exter-
with the progress of the country.
nal problems arising from deep-
Of late, unhealthy mocial trends have
rooted causes. It is with a firm de-
multiplied. exerting a heavy pres-
termination that my colleagues and
sure on the people's livelihood, and
I undertake to deal with the dim-
producing conflicts of interests in all
cult situation by instituting various
quarters. There is nothing more de-
reforms and renovations in all
plorable than such a state of affairs
branches of the Government.
which is directly opposed to the ideal
Called First Duty
of a State built on morality and
"It goes without saying that our
righteousness.
"The Government, therefore it-
basic principle of government lies in
the realization of the glorious unity
tends to realize thoroughly its pro-
jected program for the purpose of
of our nation—the solidarity of all
inouring stabilization and improve-
the subjects under one Sovereign—by
upholding the ideal on which this
ment of all walks of national life so
country was first founded. There-
as to enable the subjects of His Ma.
fore, it is the first duty of the Gov-
jesty to live, each a tranquil and
crnment to clarify the concept of our
contented life.
immutable national polity—a point
"We can not now be satisfed with
toward which should converge all
renovation of government organs
domestic and foreign policies and
merely in their mochanical opera-
measures. We believe that it is a
tion. Enforcement of offcial dis-
matter of urgent necessity, especially
cipline and reforms in administra-
under the present circumstances of
tive structure have become neces-
the situation, to maintain the sanctity
sary. The Government therefore in-
of the Constitutfon and the laws of
tends to carry out such improve-
the country by instituting education-
ments as will adequately meet the
al reforms and invigorating the na-
needs of the times by taking a fur-
tional spirit and at the same time
sighted view of the trend, both in-
eradicating thoughts incompatible
ternal and external, without being
with our national polity.
trammelled by old conventionalities.
"It has ever been the consistent
"For a complete realization of the
policy of our Government to cultivate
national policies the Government
cordial relations with all countries
will vaturally demand faithful servic-
on the basis of internationel good
cs of the various departments. While
ftith and justice, and to prompte
overhasty actions will be avoided
mutual wellbeing and common pro-
through the wisdom of the people
rerity between Japan and other
and a thorough understanding of the
countries in East Asia, and especial-
rublic sentiment, the Government
ly to carry out our mission as the
will take resolute steps in order to
stabilizing force in East Asia on the
achieve what it believes to be right.
Lasis of the inseparable relationship
It will not, oblivious of the future
beiwcen Japan and Manchoukuo,
destiny of the country, resort to tem-
thereby contributing toward the
porizing measures."
peace of tho world and the wellbeing
of mankind. Of course, both our for-
eign policy and our national defense
should accord with this national
policy. In view of the present situa.
tion of internationał relations, the
Government intend to inaugurato a
indgrendent
isent and coheront positive for-
cign policy and at the same time to
provide fully for national defence.

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to despatch
No. 1733 dated March 19, 1936,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Osaka Mainichi.
Osaka, Sunday, March 15, 1936.
Situation as Sen by War
board, sinse the beard, if emlarged, cope with the che
Authorities
ean sorve as the government's
"brain trust", ontrusted with the
As General Count Hisaichi Tera-
task of eamsidering an extemsive
duce priess, for peo
uchi, War Minister. declared when
defense scheme. The beard must
the Hirota cabinet was formed, the
be enlarged without delay.
war authorities demand, besides
(B) Reform of Finance And
distress of farming and fsl
thought trends, execution of a posi-
summary
obliteration of liberal
In order to alleviate the pre-
Economic Structure
adequate control of fert
tive policy in order to surmount the
the life of the masses, the war au-
ponderance of wealth and to stabilize
crease of farm effcleney by
alizing and electrifying farm
present emergency. They maintain
that by thoroughly clarifying the
thorities would strengthen state
form of the state, Japan can lay the
control with respect to the develop-
Definite Foreign
foundation for a positive policy.
For this reason they are positively
ment of resources, industrial activi-
ties, and foreign trade. In order to
accomplish this, the present economic
Needless friction with
opposed to
ultra-internationalism,
structures should undergo a radical
powers must at all times be
excessive individualism, and egoistic
doctrines.
change.
This
would necessitatethe
Japan requires a positive
ed, but the ever-rising E
As practical steps to drive home
strengthening of state control of
policy and unhesitating
the state form clarification, the war
the existing industrial administra-
Qf course execution of such
authorities would lay special stress
tive system and monetary organiza-
cy must ordinarily be built
on the "spirit of Japan" in the
tions with a view to introdueing a
background of a rationally
education in government universities
vast reform. Side by side with
led defense, but the extst
and other institutions, instead of de-
this, the finance and taxation
Eastern situation does not pe
voting excessive attention to scienti-
system must also be altered to
fic research. They would also en-
cope with the changing situation.
tions with a view to stamping gut
force strict censorship of all publica-
Takahashi finance policy,
With reference to the so-called
under
Japan's continental polleym
steady replstion of Mame
liberalism thoroughly. As for steer-
which the late Finance Minister
ing the nation's thought trends to
wholesome channel, they expect the
Takahashi was known to have stood
for non-increase of taxes and gradual
pending Sino-Japanese pre
government to take the matter in its
own hands.
decrease of government bonds, the
war authorities consider the Taka-
so that Japan may give gréeter at-
hashi policy unfit for the changing
tions with Soviet Russia and Outer
Administration Reform
situation, on the ground that his
Mongolia.
policy, "instead of working on a de-
With respect to the guestion
The existing political structure
(A)
Reform of Administrative
Structures
merely attempted to prevent the de-
finite idea as to national revenue,
fense accounts from swelling," and
declare such a policy can in no way
into a non-aggression pact, with-
the Soviets and Mongolia, while con-
ditions may warrant our entering
clearly defining the border between
being based on the constitutional
form of government, the war authori-
contribute to national growth.
The finance policy, in order to fit
forces from the Manchoukuo border
drawal of the Soviet's vast armed
ties are ready to allow the existence
of political parties. They would not,
standard of living through positive
the new situation, must elevate the
wise a non-aggression pact is out of
should be the pre-requisite. Other-
among party politicians, on the
however, tolerate a liberal tendency
measures, by taking into account the
extent of the disbursement before-
the question.
ground that such a tendency will
hand. The national treasury should
undermine the true raison d'etre of
shape its policy toward financing de-
Repletion of Defense
constitutional form of government.
They demand that political
tion of continental policy, and
fense, industrial development, execu-
stabilization of the life of the
In order to secure the future for
parties throw overboard partisan
interests for the legitimate good of
nation.
In order to accomplish this, the
sary for the Imperial defense force
rising Japan, it is absolutely neces-
understood that establishinga
war authorities want. Instead,
constitutional government, capable
of carrying out all worthy policies
the state. It must be distinctly
military government is not what
they desire first and last a truly
taxation system of the natlonal and
prefectural governments must under-
be issued unhesitatingly in cases
ly to the accumulation of wealth.
go basic readjustment. Bonds should
where such can contribute legitimate-
By executing a tax increase
to have armaments strong enough to
prevent the country from being
menaced. The War Office recently
drew up a definite defense plan and
asked for an appropriation in the
1986-87 fiscal year's budget.
The existing situation, however
the war authorities would advocate
smoothly by embracing all political
elements.
With respect to political reform,
quate equilibrium between indivi-
through taxation reform, efforts
must be made to bring about ade-
dual burdens, and ways must be
makes the recent defense plan entire-
force, compared with those of foreign
strengthening. This makes it inevit
ly inadequate.
powers,
requires
The Imperial ir
considerable
simplification
routine and increase of efficiency,
of
administrative
it can Bear a greater burden.
devised to inerease revenue so that
able for the defense account to rlae
steadily after the next fiscal year.
and would introduce such improve-
As tangible steps, the monopolized
ments as will elevate the nation's
industry tax, ad valorem land tax,
standard of living. If practicable,
property tax, and inheritance tax,
Far East has come to possees
the war authorities would amal-
which can be levied on graduated
gamate the present Agriculture and
scale, are worth considering.、In
force, chemieal corpe, and
Forestry Office and the Commerce
short, instead of reducing the defense
chanized corps, which are v
and Industry Office into an Industry
account as heretofore, positive read-
superior to Japan's. In erd
Offce while the business now
handled by the Overseas Office might
finances must be executed so as to
justment of defense, economics and
prevent war, Japan must ses
be handled by a bureau to greater
where it can match the
advantage.
fores.
With a view to unifying the na-
Taking everything into acc
tional opinion and to making the
Japanese claim better heard abroad,
War Office is considering an
it might be useful to establish a
sive defense répletion pl
Propaganda Office. Matters pertain-
ing to aviation deserve being handled
army administrative reform
by an independent Air Office, while
amalgamation of the Communications
and Railway Offces into a Trans-
tor
portation Office might likewise be a
wise policy.
attach

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.96)
Division of
FAR FASTERN AFFAIRS
LAW OFFICES
W.B. TAYLOR
61936
GRAND RAPIDS
-LIFN MINNESOTAA
repartiment of State
Merch 33, 1936
1936R 31
OOF
894.00
Assistant Secretary
31936
Honoraole Francis B!"Sayre
of State
Assistant Secretary of State
MAR 26 1936
Washington, D. C.
MK LAYRE
Honored Sir:
The writer had some correspondence with you
last summer with reference to Newsprint nd Worlc Trade.
Believin in your sincerity, I thournt you mirht be kind
enough to obtain some information thtt I would like to
have.
I have recently read a book by Axling on
Kagewa of Japan end I have peen wondering what effect
Kagawa's writings have he on the people of Janan. I
had intended to write to the Amparsador but believe your
department could get this information for me to better
advantage.
It seems to me that if Kaave's writinas have
00/639
been apsorbed by the people of Janen, we h ven't much to
fear from that nation in the vay of pggression, notwith-
standing the jingoistic talk we have herrd in that connec-
tion.
The thougnt has occurred to me that if this
book were print d in every lanmage, it mould do much
towards preventing wor. The "orld Tar, I believe, was
stopped by propamenda dronned behind the German lines
in the feil of 1918, and not by bull ts.
I em writing this letter efter very t ought-
ful consideretion and will anoreci: te any inform tion
you can get for me on t is subject. I thank you kindly.
Very truly yours,
BT:nc
F/FG

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.97)
March 30 1958
My doar Mr. Tayler:
I have befere me your letter of Mareh 23 in which
yom refer te your reeeat reading of a beck by axling
 Eagame ef Japan and to a query which has arisen in
yeur mind with regard to the effect of Kagawe's writings
em the peeple of Japan. You state that you had intemded
to write to the Ambassador but that you believe that this
Department could get this information for you to better
894.00/639
advantage.
You will realise that it is a very difficult thing
to make an estimate of the effeot of the writings of an
individual on a contemporary population as numerous as
the people of Japan. Opinions are so varied among
different elements of the Japanese population aad the
answer to your question depends upon so many imponderables
that I do not myself feel competent to give you an official
opimion of value. Might I suggest that probably your end
will
Mr. W. B. Tayler,
Grand Rapids, Minnesota.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.80)
-8-
will best be served by sesking the epiniene ef varieus
jeávete individuale the heve lived in Japan and eaa
amsmer your qeestiem in the light of their em diffesing
juignests and experiense.
Yours simoerely,
FRANCIS B. SAYRE
{710
FE: EADI LY
nm.m.1d.
A-8 FBS:ABM 3-37-36
A-S
H
A lrue copy
MAR 30 193€
thigned rig

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
APR 13 1930
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 28, 1936.
APR 1 1 1936
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
U:
The Tokyo Inoident
Department of State
Mr. Phillips.
of February 26.
Tokyo's despatch No. 1718 of March 6 gives an analysis
of the factors behind the recent outbreak in Tokyo. Men-
tioned as basic causes are mental unrest and economic
594.00
maladjustment brought on by transition of the country
from an agricultural to an industrial economy; tension
created by conflict of political ideas in regard to the
894.00/640
position of the Emperor and in regard to the role of the
army in the State; dissatisfaction over foreign policy
particularly with regard to China; and indiscipline in
the Japanese army attributable to fanatical conceptions
of duty.
Immediate causes of the outbreak are stated to be the
outcome of the recent elections which favordthe government,
believed by the military to be weak and corrupt; the Aizawa
"political trial"; and the order for transfer to Manchuria
of the disaffected regiment.
The writer of the despatch, Mr. Dickover, predicts
that in consequence of the outbreak efforts will be made
to instill a better sense of discipline in the army; that
attempts will be made to organize a Japanese "new deal" and
to correct the economic maladjustments which lie at the
root of much of the present unrest; and that there may occur
F
a swing in popular feeling away from reactionary ideas toward
F
G
the left.
It

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
It is believed that the foregoing suffices to cover
the main points in the despatch. It is suggested that you
may wish to read the memorandum appended to the despatch
of a conversation with Dr. James A. Scherer, who is on
friendly terms with General Masaki. Masaki is commonly
said to be the leader of the young officer faction in the
army which has been responsible for most of the violent
demonstrations in recent years. Scherer's views appear
colored by his association with the General and some of
his assertions are obviously unsound, but they make
interesting reading. He is, as you will recall, the author
of two recent books on Japan which have brought him some-
thing of the reputation of an apologist for Japan.
2
There is also appended Tokyo's despatch of March 6,
No. 172l, which gives a detailed chronicle of the chief
events connected with the recent uprising in Tokyo. Most
of the information contained therein has already been
reported by telegraph. You may wish to glance through
this report.
9MA
hNT
WTT/DLYm.m.H.

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
TELEGRAMS SENT TO THE DEPARTT ENT DURING
FEBRUARY, 1935
No.
Date
Subject
Feb. 2
Leave of Absense of Miss Arnold.
22
Feb. 2, 11 a. m.
Sino-Japaneso Negotiations.
23
Feb. 4, 7 p. m.
Sino-Japanese Situation.
24
Feb. 7, 9 a. m.
Memorial Service for Judge Payne.
25
Fcb. 8, 9 a. m.
Shipping Report.
26
Feb. 8, noon
Denarture of Smith, Assistant
Trude Commissioner.
27
Feb. 8, 5 p. m.
Manchuria Oil Monopoly.
28
Feb. 8, 6 p. m.
American Oil Interests in Japan:
29
Feb. 9, 11 a. m.
Discriminatory Manchurian Tariff on
Kerosene.
30
Feb. 14, 9 a. m.
Statements made by Ambassador Saito
in Chicago concerning Soviet Russia.
31
Feb. 15, 11 a. m. Discriminatory Manchurian Tariff on
Kerosene.
32
Feb. 18, 10 a.m.
Arrest of American Business Men in
Osaka.
33
Feb. 18, 2 p.m.
Manchuria Oil Monopoly.
34
Feb. 19, 6 p.m.
Discriminatory Manchurian Tariff on
Kerosene.
35
Feb. 21, 11 a.m.
Arrest of American Business Men in
Osaka.
36
Feb. 21, 7 p.m.
Manchuria Oil Monopoly. Message for
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company regarding,
37
Feb. 23, 1 p. m.
Arrest of American Business Men in
Osaka.
38
Feb. 25, 10 a.m.
Japan's claim to hold Olympiad in Tokyo
in 1940. Alleged assurances of the
Ambassador concerning,
39
Feb. 25, 11 a.m.
Japanese in Arizona.
40
Feb. 27, 5 p. m.
Alleged Japanese Compromise Naval Plan.
41
Feb. 27, 6 p. m.
Concession in Fortuguese Timor. Message
for Standard-Vacuum Cil Company concernin

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.97)
894.08
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/284
Tel#84, 11am
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
Apr11 4, 1936
FROM
--) DATED
894.00/
TO
NAME
1-1187
Hachiro Arita: Appointment of-, to office of Minister for
REGARDING:
Foreign Affairs; took office April 2, l936.
641
FRG.
9
f

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
JS
This telegram must be
closely paraphrased be-
TOKYO
fore being communicated
to anyone (C)
Dated April 4, 1936
Rec'd 10:45 p.m. 3rd
Secretary of State,
894.00
Washington, D.0.
84, Apri1 4, 11 a.m.
Embassy's 76, March 18, noon
894.00
Hachiro Arita, recently Ambassador to China, has
been appointed Minister for Foreign Affairs and took
orfice on the ovening of April 2. Confidential biograph-
ical report dated .iarch 2, 1936, previously sent to the
2
Department.
284
GREW
SH3 RCC

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.94)
Fee
02023
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
APR 1 6 1936
Department of State
RECEIVED
APR 17 1936
DIVISION OF
894.00
ation of Lt. Gen. Tetsusan Nagats. The srial was imtessas
by the February 26 ineident beyond the Legal limit fer the
pestponememt of a court maertial trial with the result thet a
now court will be convened and a new srial comdueted at some
later date.
2. The attached elippings are surfisient to shew the matume
of the open sessions of the trial, remarkable for the lasi-
tude allowed the defense. The faets of the assessimstiem
8
admitted from the beginning, the defense introdueed vielatiems
6
of the "Supreme Command", obstruetiom of the Showe Reetore
quities of the capitalistie systen as influemsing Cel. Aimema
00/642
and driving him to the determimtion to kill Gem. Magate as
an enemy of the country.
3. Col. Aisawa's asscciates and confidants were "direst
aotionists" implieated in the May 15 and all subsequent imei-
dents to inolude that of February 26.
4. Fantastic as an effort to administer justiee in a eass
of premeditated, cold bloeded assassination of a málitery
superior, the trial was perfest as a broadeasting statiom for
the beliofs and acousations of the radieal fringe of the
nationalistie group, well ealeulated to unbelasse unthinkine
exeitable, hot blooded youns patriots sueh as the so offieeri
who participated in the February 26 imeident.
Souree: Press.
Clippings attashed.
APR·17
FILED
Distribution:
MXD
Will1mm C. Crame
Proms W/. takgo.
Rapert No. 818y
March 20, 1926.

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.98)
6.3
ILD
2023-96
The Japan Advertiser, Jan.89, 1956.4
WAR DEPARTMENT
Th
INDEPENDENT
and
CONSTRUCTIVE
in Policy
No. 14,422
昭和六年三月廿八日
第三種那便物認可
AIZAWA ADMITS NAGATA KILLING
AS ARMY COURT MARTIAL OPENS;
DEFENSE PLEA FOR HALT DENIED
Discrepancy in Reports on Time
Senate Group Desires
of Death, Inadequate Exami-
Assurance Farm Bill
Not Unconstitutional
nation Charged
Nippon Dempo-United Press
DEFENDANT
AIRS
VIEWS
WASHINGTON, January
27.—
Senate's agriculture committee to-
day refused to accept Secretary of
Assails Slain Man for 'Political
Agricvlture Henry A. Wallace's as-
Ambitions,'Suppression of
urance that the Agricultural Ad-
justment substitute legislation would
Younger Officers
be constitutional and asked for
Solicttor-General Reed's opinion.
Committeemen reported slow pro-
COURT UNDER HEAVY GUARD
gress.
REFORM OF NATION
Lieutenant-Colonel Saburo Aizawa.
who killed the late Lieutenant-Gen-
eral Tetsuzan Nagata, director of the
SAID AIZAWA'S AIM
Military Affairs Bureau of the War
Office, last August 12, went on trial
before a court martial yesterday at
the headquarters of the 1st Division
Procurator Points Out Training
at Shinsaka-cho. Akasaka Ward.
The first move of defense counsel
in Patriotism of Officer Who
was to demand a halt in the pro-
Killed Superior
ceedings until certain allegedly ob-
scure points in the record of the de-
fendant's preliminary examination had
NAGATA HELD HINDRANCE
been cleared up. but this was denied
by the court. The defense objected
Explanations in Anonymous Do-
that no examination had been made
of motives or 'social conditions." nor
cuments of Transfer of
about "the facts of the disturbance of
Mazaki Believed
the command of the army causei by
powerful financial circles, elder states-
men and those close to the Throne."
Trained from boyhood in loyalty to
Uncertainty in the time of the death
the Throne and patriotism. Lieutenant-
of the victim was also charged. An-
Colonel Saburo Aizawa murdered
nouncement of the War Ministry on
Major-General Tetsuzan Nagata on Au-
the day of the crime said that the vie-
tim died at 4 o'clock in the afternoon.
gust 12 of last year because of indigna-
it was cited. whereas the report made
tion stirred by assertions in certain
by the army procurator. on the bas:s
mysterious documents that Major-Gen-
of a surgeon's examination, said that
era! Nagata was bloeking the move-
The crime was reported to have taken
the victim had died in a few minutes.
ment for national reforms which th
place at 9:40 o'clock in the morning.
former believed essential. Procurator
Tomosaburo Shimada declared in his
Aizawa Expounds Views
statement of facts concerning the
After reading of the charges. Aizawa
murder at the first session of Lieute-
was called. Asked if he accepted the
nant-Colenel Aizawa: trial yesterday
facts of the case as set forth by the
before the court-martial of the 1st
prosecution, he replied that he did. on
Division
the whole. but that there wee c
"The
defendant
was born and
tain points that he wshed to m ke
brought u, in a aamurai family and
clear. and that he wished to be exam-
entered the military preparatory schoo!
ined thoroughly on his motives.
at Sendai in September of 1903." the
He then expounded at length his
statement opened. according to Domei
vhews on public affairs finishin

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
the victim had died in a few minutes.
The crime was reported to have taken
ment for national reforms whicn we
place at 9:40 o'olock in the morning.
former believed essential, Procurator
Aiawa Expounds Views
Tomosaburo Shimada declared in his
was called. Asked if he accepted the
After reading of the charges, Aizawa
statement of facts concerning the
murder at the finst session of Lieute-
facts of the case as set forth by the
prosecution, he replied that he did, on
the whole, but that there were cer-
before the court-martial of the lst
nant-Colonel Aisawa's trial yesterday
Division.
"The defendant
ined thoroughly on his motives.
at Sendai in September of 190s," the
statement opened. according to Domel,
"After finishing the courses at the Cod-
 an attack on his victim, Lieute-
tral Military Preparatory School and
the Militay Cadets' School, he wa
commissioned a sub-lieutenant in De-
my officers to further his own
cember of 1910. Since then, he has serv-
political ambitions," and of obstruct-
 the "Showa restoration" move-
ed in various places. In August, 1933,
he was promoted to the rank of lieute-
corverted the brison in
bedlam.
men, men close to the Throne, influenti-
come from as far as Nagoya and many
had been standing in the cold outside
place, visible testimony to the gravity
same court-room in which army de-
fendants in the May 15 incident of
1932 had been tried.
to move forward. each person drawing
General (then Major-General) Naga-
ta's "political ambitions," he replied
min close relations with elder states-
al financiers and bureaucrats.
ed to open there were 220 persons
lined up outside in the hope of oibtain-
ing admittance. Some of them had
the main gate since the night before.
officers and police surrounded the
of the case about to be heard in the
that the slain officer sought to main-
Heavy guards of gendarmes, special
Asked what he meant by Lieutenant-
An hour before the trial was schedul-
At 9 o'clock the line was permitted
to the Throne would not be fulfilled.
of biographies of men prominent in the
and words above everything else.
nant-colonel, and on October 11 of last
year he was placed on the reserve list.
was reared from boyhood in the doc-
triotism. With military education and
fostering in him of the spirit of a sol-
dier. his confidence in the Throne was
gradually strengthened. After taking
up his duties as a commissioned officer,
he was constantly afraid that his duty
He was deeply absorbed in the perusal
Meiji Restoration and placed their acts
Zen Sect of Buddhism and hoped that
by training his spirit he might strength-
en the prestige of the Throne. From
May of 1916. when he was assigned to
tempered by nature, the defendant
trines of loyalty to the Throne and pa-
"He began to cultivate a love for the
"Simple, straightforward and quick-
Quick-Tempered by Nature
nothing to do wit the Hauptn
himself and the Attorney-General.
terrible people who did the
be caught"
the Mayor of New York Mr.
LaGuardia, said: "Thank God I
told of the good news. His
up and he said quietly:
"That's wonderful," she wald
now is that the truth come
respite after a conference bet
added:
be challenged. It is my intention
grant only one respite. There will
only say Thank you. My'
case."
no further respite."
Mrs. Hauptmann
"We have agreed that this will
The German carpenter
Mr. Hoffman cited 14 respites of con-
When informed of the develop
Governor Hoffman announced
a ticket from a black box. Those draw-
a post in T'okyo. the defendant began
demned prisoners as a precedent for his
ing blanks were turned away; 25. all
to entertain concern about the situa-
action. "The granting of a respite for
there was room for in the court-rocm.
tions at home and abroad and became
diverse reasons." he declared, "is known
drew tickets out of the box, bowed
deeply interested in current problems.
to me. I consider it an act of execu-
low to the guards at the gate. entered
He came to the conclusion that to add
tive clemency."
the compound and proceeded quietly
luster to the Constitution there should
to the court-room.
be renovation of politics. diplomacy.
Special to The Japan Advertiser
High Officers Attending
education and economy, and he thought
PHILADELPHIA. January 15.—The
The section reserved for special visi-
seriously that the complicated situations
Philadelphia Inquirer. in a copyright
tors was full by 9:30 o'clock. Among
which existed were contrary to the
article, will say tomoirow that the
those attending were Lieutenant-Gen-
spirit in which the Empire was
Governor of New Jersey. Mr. Harold
eral Hobun Yamashita. head of the
founded.
G. Hoffman. on Thursday afternoon will
army investigation department; Lieu-
"From that time, he associated with
announce a stay of execution of at least
tenant-General Takeo Hori. Command-
Yoriyoshi Okishi. Kiichi Okura. Koji
30 days for Bruno Richard Hauptmann,
er of the 1st Division; Major-General
Muranaka. Saburo Ogawa. Asaichi
on the basis of sensational new devel-
sonnel Bureau of the War Ministry:
other army and naval officers; Super-
Atsushi Gomiya, director of the Per-
lsobe and Zei (Atsumu) Nishida (all
army nen). with whom he exchanged
views on national renovation. leading
opments in the case.
prieve will be granted "largely because
the Inquirer that the last-minute re-
Sources close to the Goverror told
intendent Kazuo Oguri. of the Metro-
to strengthening of his convictions. He
the Governor wants time to investigate
politan Police Board. and Mr. Senzo
came to entertain the view that in
startling new information given him
Higai, in charge of the second section
putting his convictions into effect he
by the New York Police."
of the Cabinet Legislative Bureau.
would not hesitate to resort to direct
The new developments have some
The presiding judge. Major-General
action and waited with concern for an
connection, it is understood, with 
Shozaburo Sato. commander of the 1st
opporiunity to renovate the nation.
wealthy New York resident, termèd the
Infantry Brigade. was assisted by four
Army Renovation Desired
"mystery nan," who has interested
judges including Colonel Megumu Ko-
"From June of 1933, he was of the
himself in the case but has insisted on
fuji, commander of the 1st Infantry
opinion that before the nation could be
shrouding his identity in the deepest
Regiment; Colonel Suketoshi Kitani.
renovated there would have to be re-
secrecy. This man, it was learned, in-
commander of the 1st Artillery Regi-
novation of the army, which was fall-
sists that two men and a woman kid-
ment: Colonel Tamizo Kimura. com-
ing short of his expectations in its
napped the Lindbergh baby for whose
mander of the 2nd Armored Car Regi-
attitude toward clarification of the na-
death Hauptmann has been sentenced
ment; and Lieutenant-Colonel Heikichi
tional structure. When Major-General
to die Friday night.
Wakamatsu. attached to the Hongo
Nagata assumed the post of director of
Regimental District.
the military affairs bureau of the War
The prosecution was in charge of Mr.
Office in March of 1934. the defendant
Tomosaburo Shimada, in charge of the
was led by his associates to the con-
judicial affairs of the 1st Division, as-
elusion that Major-General Nagata was
sisted by Mr. Kotaro Sugihara. an
utilizing his position to block the move-
army judicial official. Dr. Somei Uza-
ment for rational renovation. Thus
wa, prominent lawyer and attorney.
hatred for the Major-General began to
and Lieutenant-Colonel Sakichi Mitsui
grow.
instructor in the Army Staff College
"In Novenber of 1934. his indignation
and a classmate of the defendant. are
was stirred when his associates, Koji
acting on the counsel for defense.
Muranaka and Asaichi Isobe. were
Before attending the trial. the pre-
examined by a court-martial on a
siding Judge. Major-General Sato. vi-
charge of revolt. His grudge against
sited the Meiji Shrine. praying for
Major-General Nagata became all the
heavenly aid for the execution of his
stronger because of his trust in so-
duties. Meanwhile. Lieute ant-Colonel
called mysterious décuments circulated
Aizawa, the defendant, dressed in the
in certain quarters and in the allega-
uniform of his rank. left the Tokyo
tions of his associates. which came to
Military Prison at Udagawa-cho in Shi-
his knowledge wher they were dismiss-
buya Ward in a motorcar, accompanied
(Continued on Page 2)
by three guards, reaching the 1st Divi-
sdon headquarters at 9:30 o'clock and
was held in a cell awaiting the open-
ing of the trial.
Defendant Brought In
At exactly 9:55, the court-room open-
ed its doors; the general visitors being
admitted by a back door. The session
opened at 10:05 o'clock, the presiding
judge and others taking their seats at
exactly 10. with Aizewa entering the
court-room, without saber and carry-
ing his army cap in his right hand.
He was escorted by four guards. After
solemnly declaring the trial open, the
questioving of the defendant was taken
up by the Presiding Judge.
Jedge: Your name?
Defendant: Saburo Aizawa.
Q: Date of your birth?
A: September 9, 1892.
Thet unit do you belong to?

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.98)
ot Tis doofs: the enoat aon ng
admitted by a back door. The seession
opened at 10:05 o'clock. the presiding
sudee and others lakins their seats at
emectly l0, with Aisewe entering the
sourt-room, without saber and carry-
ing his army cap in his right hand.
He was escorted by four guards. After
volemnly declaring the trial open, the
questlaing of the defendant wes taken
up by the Presiding Judge.
Jedge: Your name?
Defendan!: Saburo Aizawa.
Q: Date of your birth?
A: September 9, 1892.
Q: What unit do you belong to?
A: The lst Infantry Regiment of the
Formoss Army and serving as military
instructor of the Taihoku Higher Com-
mercial School of the Formosa Govern-
ment.
Q: Rank?
A: Infantry, lieutenant-colonel (Here
he corrected himse.f). No. infantry
lieutenant-colonel on the reserve list.
A few questions then followed con-
cerning his birth-place. present domi-
cile and his family. As soon as these
were completed. Army Procurator Shi-
mada stood up and prepared to read
the charges. At this moment. Lieute-
nant-Colonel Mitsui. acting as a speci-
al member of the counsel for the de-
fense. suddenly arose and requested
permission to speak.
Facts Termed Obscure
Permitted by the presiding judge, he
stated:
"Allow me to say first of all that
the facts as stated by the prosecution,
based on the prelininary examination
record in connection with the present
case, are very obscure. By the essen-
tial nature of the Imperial Army.
private and public acts must be dis-
tinguished from one another. This.
hewever, is not clear in the prese't
care. Has the defendant been examin-
ed in his private capacity or his pub-
lic capacity?
"Secondly. the preliminary examina-
tion has been completed. but no ex-
amination has been n"de as to the
motives or concerning social conditions.
nor about the facts of the disturbance
of the command of tho arny which has
been caused by powerful financial cir-
cles. elder statesmen and those close
to the Throne.
"Thirdly. the exact time when the
late Lieutena t-General Tetsuzan Na-
gata :uesumbed is also very obscure.
The announctment made by the War
Ministry on he day of the incident
said he died at 4 o'clock hat afternoon.
The report made by Army Procurator
Shimada. based on the examination
conducted by an army surgeon, indi-
cates the victim succumbed in a few
minutes. This point gives rise to sus-
picion. If the War Ministry's an-
nouncement is correct. death came
some time after after the victim had
been seriously wounded by the de-
fendant. According to the Procurator's
report. death was immediate. There
must be some important misgivings in
regard to this point. Whether the error
lies with the War Minister or the Pro-
curator the facts must be known by
the surgeous who gave first aid to the
victim. I think the roport of Procura-
tor Shimada should be regarded as
correct. In spite of the death of the
late Lieutenant-General Nagata. I pre-
sume the War Minister and Premier
and Minister of the Imperial House-
hold Department at the time requested
Imperial. sanction for the victim's pro-
motion under the pretense that the
latter was still alive.
Discrepancy Called Vital
"The three points clearly indicate
important discrepancies on the part of
the then War Minister. Minister of the
Imperial Household Department and
Army Procurator Shimada regarding
the steps they have taken pertaining
to this grave affair. This ineonsisten-
cy will have much effect on the pre-
sent case and I hope the presiding
Judge will give due consideration to
this point
He then requested the presiding judge
to suspend the trial until such points
had been made clear. The request
was rejected. however, and the -
sion continued. After the charges
were read by Procurator Shimada. a
recess of 25 minates was declared. The
sssion was resumed at 10:55 o'clock.
The defendant was then asked by Judi-
ciary Sugihara whether the facts of
the prosecution would be accepted.
Aiz.t As  whole I will accept
the. There re one fundaonental
points. however. which I cannot very
welt understand. I wish to be
thoroughty examined as regards to the

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.98)
the murgeons who gave irst sid to the
vietim. I think the report of Procura-
tor Shimada ahould be regarded as
correct. In spite of the doath of the
late Lieutenant-General Nagats. I pre-
sume the War Minister and Premier
and Minister of the Imperial House-
hold Department at the time requested
Imperial, sanction for the victim's pro-
motion under the pretense that the
latter was still alive.
Discrepancy Called Vital
"The three points clearly indicate
important discrepancies on the part of
the then War Minister, Minister of the
Imperial Household Department and
Army Procurator Shimada mgarding
the steps they have takenr pertaining
to this grave affair. This inconsisten-
cy will have much effect on the pre-
sent case and 1 hope the presiding
Judge will give due consideration to
this point.
He then requested the presiding judge
to suspend the trial until such points
had been made clear. The request
was rejected. however, and the -
sion continued. After the charges
were read by Procurator Shimada, a
recess of 25 minutes was declared. The
session was resumed at 10:55 o'clock.
The defendant was then asked by Judi-
ciary Sugihara whether the facts of
the prosecution would be accepted.
Aizawa: As a whole I will accept
them. There are some fundamental
points. however. which I cannot very
well understand. I wish to be
thoroughly examined as regards to the
motive.
The defendant then stated that he
was taught by his father that "the
country must be served with the con-
viction that you are always serving
close to :he Emperor and that those
born in Japan should return every-
thing in a time of emergeney." He
said that constituted the foundation of
his menta outlook.
Continuing he : aid. "The Emp ror is
the representative of the Great Ged
who created this world. The Emp ror
is absolute. The Emp ror has been so
in the past. ia so in tho present and will
b: so in the future."
7' court then went into re cess at
11:40 o'clock. resuming the afternoon
sessio. at 2. The defendant was then
questiond about his views on the re-
constru tion. of the nation. He stated.
"th re c a: lut dy no such hing as
reectrstrn ron with the Japonese peo-
pl.. It ia thing which should bs left
to the Emperor. 1 repea! it agon. th re
is absolutely no such thing as recon-
struction of a nation in this country.
While 1 was attached to the Japan
Gymnastic School as military instrue-
tor, the conditions of the country were
in a deplorable state (1929-30). For
instance. the farmers were mpoveri:h-
ed. Tenant disputes Froke out in agrarian
commun:ties and provck(d the spread
of Communism. Even the Ra!way Mi-
nister and the Direetor of e Décora-
tions Bureau wer: indulging in que-
tionable activities 'ssandals) Th. e.o-
nomie system was founded on self-
intere. ts.
Diplomacy Called Deplorable
"The diplomasy of this country be-
fore the outtreak of the Manchurian
incident was in a deplorable state.
There was the case of viola:ion of the
Supreme Command in connection with
the naval conference. There were so
many instances which caused concern
to the Emperor in those days that it
was almost a daily occurrence. When
I thought of these conditions. I could
no! merely pass the days by giving
military instruction to the students of
the gymnaste school. This was the
metive of my reconstruction of so-
ciety."
Asked how he came to entertain
such ideas. the defendant mentio ed
his association with the younger ele-
ment in the army which seemed to
be discontented with presen: social
conditions. especially since he came in
con'act with Sone. Okura. Ande Sato
Koda. formerly captains. and Nishida
and two nival officers involved in the
May 15 nicident.
A recess was declared at 2 55 o'glock
for 20 minntes
Questione to what ho thought
a)  the a umot:on by Major-Gen-
era. Nagata of the post of director of
the Military Affairs Bureau of the War
Ministry the defendant stated:
Che csom .tions of society were im-
proving by the power of restoration on
the one hand and through the vower
of conservatism on the other. Con-
servatism is based on self-interest and

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.99)
fore the outtreak of the Manchurian
incident was in a deplorable state.
There was the case of viola:ion of the
Supreme Command in congection with
the naval conference. There were so
many instances which caused concern
to the Emperor in those days that it
was almost  daily occurrence. When
I thought of these conditions. I could
not merely pass the days by siving
military instruction to the students of
the mnastic school. This was the
motive of my reconstruction of so-
ciety."
Asked how he came to entertain
such ideas. the defendant mentioned
his asociation with the younger ele-
ment in the army which seemed to
be discontented with present social
conditions. especially since he came in
con'act with Sone, Okura, Ando. Sato.
Koda. formerly captains, and Nishida
and two naval officers involved in the
May 15 nicident.
A recess was declared at 2:55 o'clock
for 20 minutes.
Questioned as to what he thought
bout the assumption by Major-Gen-
eral Naata of the post of director of
the Military Affairs Bureau of the War
Ministry, the defendant stated:
"The conditions of society were im-
proving by the power of restoration on
the one hand and through the power
of conservatism on the other. Con-
servatism is based on self-interest and
is for the maintenance of power and
authority. Self-interest should never
be allowed to exist. From this view-
point. I was carefully watching the
assumotion of the post by Major-Gen-
eral Navata.
Political Maneuvering Seen
"When Maje r-General Nagata assum-
ed his nost he firrt allowed you'g
army officers to hold meetings. In
spite of this. however. just at the mo-
ment when such meetings were sehe-
duled to take place. he suppressed
them by giving instructions through the
various battalien mmanders. This
happened just at th, time when Gen-
eral Kazunari Ugaki. Governor-General
of Korea, who has close connections
with the clder statesme, those close
to the Throne. infu:ntial financiers
and bureaucrats. was coming to Tokvo.
Judging from this. I could not help
thinking that there had been scme
volitical maneuvering going on at that
time. The director of the Military Ar-
fairs Bureau. who is sunped to be
the closest a-sistant to the War Min-
ister. instead of guidi g the younger
element in the arny. brought pressure
to bear on them because of his political
am bition. thus causing the outbreak of
such an neident as the (three chara-
eters deleted). which should be regard-
ed ae a black spot on the reeerd of the
Imperial Army. He always brought
pressure to bear on ycung officers in
ther parts of the country withcut any
particular reason and those facts can-
not be de ied. The young offieers in-
volved were sent to prison for three
wonths. Who would not rise at such
unreasonable punishments. Moreover.
he attempted to place the blame on
General Jinzaburo Mazaki, then Inspec-
'or-General of Military Training. When
the quest on pertai ing to the rights
of the Emperor came to the surface.
the army plotted with the Government
as thought to cater to the elder states-
men, those subjects clese to the Throne.
financia! magnaes and bureaucrats, for
the removal of the Inspector-General
of Military Training. General Mazaki.
as they pressed on those in other parts
of the country."
Asked what he meant by Major-
General Nagata's political ambitions.
the defendant explained "that he (Na-
gata) wanted to be always in close
touch with the elder statesmen. those
close to the Throne. financiers of in-
fluence. and bureaucrats; such being
observed as his political amibitions."
The defendant added that Major-
General Nagata was the cause of check-
ing the movement for the Showa re-
storation.
The session adjourned at 3:40 o'clock.
Thursday morning from 10 o'clock.

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.98)
ordinary military uniform and armed
Because of loss of blood, the Majg
with a  ber. Spending the night at
Genera! died in the room within a 
Ujiyanada. he worshipped the next
minutes of the assault on him by 
morning at the Grand Shrine of Ise and
defendant.
arrived in Tokyo in the evening. About
"Colonel Hideo Niuni. commander
10:30 o'clock. he visited Ze: Nishida at
the Tokyo Gendarmere Corps,
his home and talked th.re with him
happened to be present, grabbed
and Eiichi Okura, another associate.
defendant around the waist from
ANAA
Convinced by them that there was no
hind near the southeastern side of 
Jan. 2993.
hcpe of Major-General Nagata's re-
room to divert the trust of his sat
rignation from the office of director of
from Major-General Nagata. In 
796-520C
the Military Affairs Bureau of the War
desperate attempt to shake him off,t
Ministry, the defendant became all the
defendant inflicted a wound in the 
で
more determined to assassinate him.
per part of the Colonel's left ar
Nagata Office Entered
which was about 15 centimeters de
1m9
"On the morning of August 12, he left
and required about four weeks of hc
Nitida's house and visited the War
pital attention.
Ministry at about 9:30 o'clock. On his
Fishing Talks Strike Snag
way to Major-G neral Nagata's office,
he called at the office of the director of
Little progress is being made at t
the equipment bureau. where he in-
21st sesslon of the Soviet-Japanese co
quired through an office boy. while
ference for the revision of the existi
speaking with the director, whether or
fishery agreement, which is now
not Major-General Nagata was in his
progress in Mosaow. Ambassador Tam
office. Walking down the central cor-
kichi Ota has reported to the Forei
ridor of the building. tie entered the
Office, says Domei. With the termin
office of the director of the military
tion of the existing treaty impendin
affairs bureat at about 9:45 o'élock
fishing industrialists are placing gre
and approached with drawn saber Ma-
hope in the current talks, it is sak
jor-General Nagata, who was seated at
A complete divergence of views
his desk, on the south side of the room.
blamed for the present impasse.
"The Major-General. on noticing the
intruder, stood up and tried to get out
of the path of the blade by swerving
his body to tthe right. The defendant
Get The
then thrust his saber into the officer's
back from behind. When the latter
tried to go into the adjoining room, the
Kaō Pâte
former rushed around the desk and
pursued him again thrusting his
sword into this back on the left side
habit for your
near the door to the next room.
Daily Shaves!
"Major-General Nagata collapsed on
the southeastern side of the desk, his
face up. The defendant then inflicted
serious wounds on the left side of his
neck. The two worst wounds on his
back were 9.5 centimeters long and one
centimeter deep and six certimeters
long and 13 centimeters deep. The
severest neck wound was 14.5 centt-
meters long and 4.5 centimeters deep.
10 Sen
CHOOOLAN
Make shaving
personal
pleasure. Kao Pate makes all
Delicious and
Appetizing
the difference in a nice clean
morning's shave. Generous
white latner of penetrating
bubbles-and very cconomical.
JAPAN TOURIST BUREAU
Tubes 35 sen. 25 sen. Handy
IMPERIAL HOTEL ARCADE
jars 25 sen. Sold at drug and
Tokyo.
department stores.
Information. Literature and
NAGASE & CO.
Travel Tickets Supplied
Tokyo.
J-16
Head Office: Tokyo Station
COMFORTABLE ROOMS¥3.50 and up
WITH BREAKFAST
N THE BUSINESS CENTER OF TOKYO-MODERN ACCOMMODATIONS
YASIMA HOTEL
NIHONLASHI TRAM CAR CROSSING. Tel. Nihonbashi 1365—1369
Our English-speaking clerks assist our foreign eustomers.
Free Laundry Service for our Customems
NAGOYA
 Of Nation
MAMPELHOTEL
Said Aizawa's Aim

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.95)
COMFORTABLE ROOME ¥3.50 and up
WITH BREAKFAST
YASIMA HOTEL
NIEONDASHI TRAM CAR CROSSING. T1. N 1
Our English-speaking clerks assist our Soreisn emstonsera.
Free Laundry Nerviee for Gug Cuntemene
NAGOY
Of Nation
MAMPEIHOTEL
Aisawa's Aim
(Continsed trom Page 1)
Toshincho, Higashi-ku, Tel. Higashi 7470
ad, that the Major-General was hinder-
ing the national renovation movement.
Convenient situation and modern accommedations
"While at his post in Fukuyama. he
Rates including room, breakfast and laundry
pmad in a newspaper on July 16 of last
year of the transfer of General Jin-
Single rooms
￥ 4.50 up
zaburo Mazaki from the post of Inspec-
ter-General of Military Education to
with bath
￥ 8.00 up
that of a member of the Supreme War
Double rooms
¥10.00 up
Couneil. He jumped to the conclusion
that this transfer of General Mazaki
with bath
¥14.00 up
whom he greatly respected. was a re-
Reservations may be made at
ult of the maneuvering of Major-Gen-
eral Nagata. To ascertain the truth
TOKYO MAMPEI HOTEL, Tel. Kudan 4161
he came to Tokyo from Fukuyama and
ATAMI MAMPEI HOTEL, Tel. Atami 3161
registered at the Military Club on July
18. So overwhelming was his indigna-
tion against Major-Genera! Nagata tha
ORENTAHOE
without even taking steps to learn the
facts about General Mazaki's transfer
he decided in his excitement to assassi-
nate him.
Resignation Advised
"On the next morning. however, he
AMERICAN OR EUROPEAN PLAN,
recovered balance of mind and aban-
doned his murderous intention. At
00000
Every Modera Convenience and Comfort
IN THE HEART OF KOBE
Genuine Hospitality
about 4 o'clock in the afternoon. he
Rooms With or Without Bath
visited Major-General Nagata at his of-
Rates Begin
at 995.00 per Day
fice at the War Ministiy and curtly
Grill Room Open From
recommended that he resign and
charged him with failing in his duties
Afternoon Tea Service
11 am. to 11 pm.
in Lobby
as an assistant to the War Minister.
with Filipino Quartetts
"On his return to Fukuyama on July
Cable Addrems
21, he received from Koji Nakamura
"ORIENTAL" KOBE
a document explaining the circum-
Y. SHIMADA
stances of the transfer of General Ma-
zaki. Toward the end of the same
month, he received from some unknown
三
Table D'Hote e A La
Managing Director
in Dining Room
person a so-called mysterious document
KIITI.
alleging that the military clique and
KOBE.
JAPAN.
the bloc of senior statesmen were act-
ing contrary to the wishes of the
Throne. He believed the statement in
the document that General Mazaki's
transfer resulted from maneuvers by
Major-General Nagata.
"Having arrived at the conclusion
that renovation of the army could not
be realized if the Major-General con-
The lmprral Hohald
By Appruntment In
ol Japan
tinued to poison the army by enter-
M
taining political ambitions and associat-
ing secretly with senior statesmen and
Government officials. he determined to
assassinate him in the interests of the
future of the army.
"On August 10, he left Fukuyama in
MIKIMOTO PEARLS
Necklaces and Jewelry
K. MIKIMOTO
TOKYO—GINZA ST.
KOBE-Motomachi 4-chome
Branches: New York. Los Angeles,
Chicago, London, Paris, Bombay
1vtirf.
mar. 21
to Change without Notice)
OKUSAI KISZN KAISHA
ad Office: Kogyo Ginko Bidg., Marunouchi,
kyo. Tel.(23)1591-95. Tel.Add. INTESHIP.
5157. Tcl. Add. KOKUSAISEN.
6. Tel. Ad- KOKUSAISEN.

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.98)
The Jnpan Advertiser, Jan. 31, 1936.
AIZAWA GIVES COURT
"With due revenemcs. I submit that
to the Throne, pewertal
in our relations with the Emperor we
are nothing mere than His Majesty's
COMPLETE ACCOUNT
subjects and at the mme time His
army for the ami
Majesty's children. As the old saying
goes. there is righteousness between
sovereign and subject and affection be-
OF DEATH OF NAGATA
tween father and son. Any person
who is in a position to administer the
lated in every repec
law and mete out punishment in the
name of the Emperor cannot fulfill
deed! What develoged
his duty without paternal affection.
He should not adhere to legal trifles.
Officer Describes How he Slew
From the bottom of my heart, I entremt
venting thoir viene pestainim t
Head of Military Affairs
sion with the reason and feeling of a
the presiding judge to reach his deci-
control of the army.
Still Apprehensive
Bureau With Sword
fi ther who expostulates with his chil-
dren.
"Both Muranaka and Isobe, who weve
Clarification Needed
"There is something else that I wish
FEARED FOR ARMY SPIRIT
to ask the presiding judge. It is the
Imperial Army will be totmlly y
question of a searching examination of
rupted and changed into one
all the circunstances leading up to the
vate nature is becoming deeper n
Counsel for Defendant Requests
dismissal of the former Inspector-Gen-
deeper. If nothing is done, I am atteld
eral of Military Education. General
That Full Consideration Be
Jinzaburo Mazaki. Unless this matter
Imperial Army from the inside.
is clarified. I firmly believe that the
Given to Motive
impriso::ment of Lieutenant-Colonel
statesmen and those close to the Theene
Aizawa will be impossible. If the facts
are indulging in self-interest and 
I concerning the dismissal of General
to be working as the tools of forplen
PETITION IN BLOOD IS READ
Mazaki are hushed up because of ex-
In brief sentences and simple. un-
181
it is not going far to predict that there
cessive consideration for the honor and
will be another, and even a third, case
unbroken 'line of control' of the army.
countries watching to attack Jagen.
the people too. Young girls in the
Tohoku distriot. where I we borny
"Allow me to say something about
adorned language. Lieutenant-Colonel
like the present.
dislike to work on the farms, and there
Saburo Aizawa yesterday afternoon
"There are rumors that the steps
is no opportunity to bring up sriqu
told the 1st Division court-martial be-
taken by the military authorities re-
young men. Mahjong and cafe 
fore which he is being tried at head-
garding the written opinions of Cap-
tain Muranaka and Captain Isobe
becoming a fad in the country. The
Immperial Army is liable to be turned
quarters in Akasaka, how he cut down
dealing with the army were not satis-
into one of a private natuve. Interaal
Lieutenant-General Tetsuzan Nagata
factiy and that the resultant dissatis-
conditions are becoming. deploralle
with a sword in the War Office last
faction was responsible for what
With such a state of affairs a netien
August. and why he did it. His pro-
Licutenant-Colonel Aizawa did. It is
certainly regrettable for the prestige
is faced with danger. When I observed
these conditions, the teachings on which
cedure was to gain admission to the
of the army that such written views
I have been brought up-to give up
office of the then director of the Mili-
were presented at a time when the
everything for the Emperor in an emer-
tary Affairs Bureau and attack him;
evil hands of a certain country are
gency-burst out and encouraged me.
his motive was a conviction that the
trying hard to injure the prestige of
"The reason why I marked out
officer. then a major-general. was re-
the Empire and to disturb its peace.
Major-General Nagata was beuse h
sponsible for conditions in the army
but this should have been dealt with
that Lieutenant-Colonel Aizawa re-
as a minor error. I am not at all ac-
garded with apprehension
quainted with Captain Muranaka or
In the course of his testimony the
Captain Isobe. but I cannot believe
lefendant held forth against the so-
that they tried to 'poison' the army
alled cIder statesmen. the group he
by playing into the hands of a cer-
described as close to the Throne; and
tain country. I carnestly request the
gainst financiers and businessmen. He
presiding judge to employ his fine
also touched briefly on conditions in
judgment to maintain the prestige of
the agricultural districts. where young
the army and to clarify the cireum-
women were no longer content to work
stances that brought about Aizawa's
in the fields and where cafes and mah-
imprisonment.
jong had become popular pursuits.
"In the spring, the plum trees
bloom. They cannot tell why they
Lieutenant-Colonel Aizawa stated sim-
ply that in assassinating Major-General
bloom. When the time for their
blooming arrives. those on hills, in
Nagata he regarded himself as an in-
dales and in gardens all bloom alike.
strument executing the vengeance of
They are not foreed to open their pe-
heaven.
tals. Nature makes them bloom.
The morning session was devoted
Licutenant-Colonel Aizawa may be
chiefly to hearing a plea by the specia!
likened to a plum branch blooming
defense coun:el that the court give
at an early stage. I entreat the pre-
full consideration to the defendant's
siding judge to understand how na-
motive. The counsel emphasized his
tural was his action and to acquaint
plea by reading a lo g petition written
himself thoroughly with the facts of
in blood and signed by a sub-lieutenant
the case.
on the reserve list. requesting minute
study of all facts surrounding the
case.
Morning Session Opens
The second session of the hearing
was opened at 10-04 oelock yesterday
morning by the presiding judge, Major-
General Shozaburo Sato. Lieutenant-
Colonel Sakichi Mitsui. special counsel
for the defense then rose and made a
long statement. in which he criticized
the manner in which the court-martial
was being conducted.

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.98)
Delense Aarr Noetes
and 
On finishing it. the special counsel
those choee to the Threme.
began, "and it has far-reaching bear-
for the defense asked for a brief rest.
mon and those of the ammy
Then he demanded that the presiding
ings on various circles. With condi-
tions at home and abroad what they
judge read to him the order of pro-
ceedings. There was an exchange of
are, there should be no change in the
words. during which Lieutenant-Col-
minds of the judges or the judged re-
onel Mitsui declared that he wanted
arding the prestige of the army. If
the court to "listen to the fervent wish
an error is made in the present trial.
of the entire nation" and charged the
it will have serious consequences for
military authorities with distoring the
the army. With this in mind. I should
Aizawa case and trying to supprems the
like to speak briefly about the way
truth underlying it. With tears well-
in which the court-martial is being
ing in his eyes. he voiced hope that
conducted.
the loyalty to the Throne and the pa-
tof evil. I came to the 
there was no way left but to et rid 
"I should like to say a few words
triotism which animated the defendant
Nigi ta. I wes transferred to Formosa
about the steering of the session by the
would be thoroughly appreciated by
in August, but I was dotermined 
presiding judge. Major-General Sato.
the whole nation. After reading a
It is the basic desire of a soldier t
numbe of telegrams from Kyushu,
protect the fundamental spirit in which
Shikoku. Manchuria. Korea and other
something.
"If Major-General Nagata could 
the army was founded. We must.
places, he continued:
see his way clear to resign ater be
therefore. be fully conscious of the true
"My desire that our intentions be
nature of the army. The procurator is
carefully considered was rejected at a
ing been advised to do ao. than theme
was only ane thing left, and thmt wes
thoroughly acquainted with this. I un-
conference of the War Minister, the
derstand. The present case. however.
vice-chief-of-staff and the War Vice-
his removal. There were three waas
is very serious. Should the funda-
Minister at 1:30 o'clock on the after-
Two of them would not be allewed 
mental spirit of the army be forgotten
noon of January 27. It is with grim
these days. My rank of Houtemet
determination that I am present here. colonel was also insuffeient. The osl
and a single false step taken. an un-
The outcome of this public trial will one course left was to make mymel
retrievable situation would be created
affect deeply the future of the army.
demon. I determined to finish his M
in the army.
When I volunteered to act as special
with one stroke of the sword. That
"The questions put to the defendant
counsel for the defense in the interests
is and was my only feeling.
by the procurator at the last session of
the public trial dissatisfied us greatly.
of Lieutenant-Colonel Aizawa, pressure
Prays at Shrime
was brought to bear on me from many
I have already pointed out (on Tues-
circles. My presence shows that I have
"I left Osake on Auguet 10. I got
day, some grave errors in the written
ignored this pressure.
off the train at Ujiyamad and visited
indictment. If the sessions of the court
"Mysterious documents have been
the Ise Shrines. Then I bought sou-
are allowed to continue in this fashion.
received by some newspaper publishers
veniors for Okura, Nishida, Muranake
complications may arise. I hope that
from a section of the general public
the court will not be swayed by formal-
with the aim of depriving them of free-
and illustrated past cards for Okunm's
ity and will conduct the examination
dom of speech. It is the duty of news-
children and my awn. I changed cers.
in a more responsible manner. I hope
papers to report affairs as they really
at Nagoya and arrived at Harajuku
that the questions will be put to the
ave. for they are the mirrors of society.
defendant by the presiding judge hin-
We hope that the newspapers will not
Station in Tokyo at 9:30 o'clock on the
self.
be misled by these mysterious docu-
night of the following day. I vielted
Incident Unprecedented
ments and by influence. Behind them
the Meiji Shrine that night. I prayed
"As the presen: ineident is unpre-
1 seem to see the evil hands of Mam-
cedented in the history of the army.
mon. I hope that the presiding judge
that. if my conviction was not wrong.
various contributing factors must be
and the other judges wil give serious
I might be allowed to execute the
taken into consideration by the count.
consideration to the situation and act
punishment of heaven.
It must look upon general circumstan-
properly."
"I called on Nishida at 10 o'clock
viewpoint. It must also be guided by
es from a broad and comprehensive
sion recessed until 1 o'clock in the
At this point. 11:15 o'clock. the ses-
that night. Okura was there. I talk-
justice and equity in facing the op-
afternoon.
rd with them. I mentioned that I
pression of society. I have already ex-
Defense Request Fails
would be satisfied if the War Min-
With resumption of the afternoon
plained why the written indictment is
ister and Major-General Nagata rec-
session the special defense counsel
considered unsatisfactory. The attitude.
onsidered the matter. Nishida mi
Lieutenant-Colonel Mitsui. interrupted
method and order of the procurator in
to request that the defendant be ques-
there was no change in Nagata's at-
dealing with the case at the last ses-
sion wore fragmentary and superficial.
tioned about his motives before being
titude. That was enough. I docided
lacking in understanding of the basic
crime. The court rejected the re-
questioned about the facts of the
on my final determination. We went
elcments of the case. I trus: that the
quest and when the counsel attempt-
to bed about 11 o'clock.
court will conduct its sessions with
ed to argue the presiding judge cut him
"I left Nishida's at about 9 o'clock
sincerity and allow. when the need
short.
the following morning, engaged a tax1
arises. the defen lant to give his views.
The defendant was asked when he
and went to the War Ministry. The
"The spirit of the Showa Restoration
learned about the resignation of Gen-
driver took me to the back gate by
in the army is about to be manifested
eral Jinzaburo Mazaki from the office
mistake. I recallod then about Major-
through Lieutenant-Colonel Aizawa. A
of Inspector-Ceneral of Military Edu-
General Shigeatsu Yamaoka, who was
large majority of the younger officers
cation. and replied that it was on the
a commander while I was attending
in the army is at present de ermined to
afternoon of July 16. Here the de-
the Military Academy. I asked for
oust outside influences. and the nation
fense counsel interrupted again to re-
his room. When I met him I mid I
desires sincerely that the army prove
peat his previous request, which
had come to see Major-Ganeral Nege-
itself to be the army of he Emperor.
again was rejected.
Examination af
ta. He asked why I wanted t 
"The case is attracting widespread
him (Nagata). Major-General Yame-
attention. If the court fails to under-
oka advised me not to see Majar-Gen-
stand the spirit which guided Lieute-
nant-Colonel Aizawa. a stcond Aizawa.
and even a dird. will appear. The

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.94)
htpria
-xo
nury
Cieubanänt-Colonel Aizawa wasre-
sumed.
Q.—Give an account of the meeting
aunu Ag na.
you held on July 19 with the then
Nagata becaume he foared 
director of the Military Affairs Bu-
misbe got into moublea I tolel
CES
reau in the War Ministry, Major-
ExII
o
WORFU
ARA
General Nagata.
A.—I felt keenly that the national
negative. I asked him wmay.
national renovation. The time has
army was in an apprehensive condition
come for rescuing the army from cor-
in connection with the (ive words
ruption. I hope that the court will
Descrihes Astel
give serious consideration to the con-
deleted) incident. The change in the
"Meanwhile a boy werifled that
census of opinion in the army and
oftice of Inspector-General of Military
Major-General was in his offlee. Wh
among the people and not err in its
Education was effected in an unreason-
 called on him. in July
able manner, Conditions were such
that any who dared sound warnings
about it were brought before a court-
martial. The Imperial Army was on
the verge of corruption. I keenly felt
the necessity of pounding into the heads
of the young a spirit of absolute re-
verence to the Emperor. When a stu-
dent of the Military Academy with a
scholarship record came to Fukuyama
(Hiroshima Prefecture) I tried to talk
with him on such questions. I was
amazed and disappointed at the little
nterest he showed.
Worried Over Conditions
The defendant then stated that he
canvassed for the appointment of a
person like Colonel Kanji Ishihara to
be the reg:r ntal conmander of the
students of the Military Academy. and
also told how he engaged himself in
the education of the public in the Hiro-
shima Prefeeture. although it may have
been in a very small way. Continuing
he said:
"From that time on I was so con-
cerned of the conditions that I could
hardly cat my meals. I requested the
cormander of my regiment to let me
go to Tokyo while my unit was en-
gaged in a sham battle. The permis-
sior. was g:ven, and with it a warning
that I should act with great care.
The defendant stated he left for To-
kyo by an afternoon express of July
17. On his way. he called on Captain
Yoriyohi Okishi at Wakayama and
spent a night w:th him.
"While in the train. I thought about
the ptriots of the Meiji Restoration."
he went on. "Then I would think
that my power alone would not prove
suffielent. Then I would encowrage
myself by thinking that such a weak
spirit would not do. Finally F came
to the conclusion that there was noth-
ing else to do but to kill Majon-Gen-
tral Nagata. Upon my arrival in Tokyo
I inmediately bought a short Japanesc
sword from a dealer in Kanda Ward.
I never said a word about this to any
other person. I went to the Kaikosha
(Army Offieers Club) that night but

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.94)
ww  wd
ed  at
ynn
wunun sg nam
Donef
mata becaume he areh
0M
CES
n ent
orips.
le situation was srave and rees
EX II
FQUP
OFU
ARA
nocion
legative. I asked him way
country is rulu of persons who arvocat
on ofvl
nationel renovation. The time ha
atte
oa
come for rescuing the army from cor
rt
Describes Atack
ruption. I hope that the court will
"Meanwhile a boy wesifled thet
str  a.
give serious consideration to the con-
Major-General was in his es. Whe
census of opinion in the army and
 called on him in July. hewas aleg
among the people and not err in itd
proceedings. I have here more than 100
could not sleep. On the following
memges of encouragement and peti-
morning. I was gripped, somehow, by
the ends of a table, himpalf sittdng
tons from those interested in the case
a feeling as if a voice from a corner
throughout the country. In the hope
of the sky were whispering to me.
tachsed Mejor-General Nemmts from t
that the judges will listen to them for
'Dcn't act with too much haste."
reference. I sthall read a few."
Goos to War Office
escaped me. Then I triedk again and
Lieutenant-Colonel Mitsui read first
The defe::dant explained that as he
the point of my sword touched hi.
a petition written in blood by Sub-
was not acquainted with Major-General
He tried to escape to the adjoinipe
Lieutenant Sutejiro Koshimura. on the
Nagata. he decided to have an inter-
reom. occupied by the head of the
second reserve list. of Kanazawa, Ishi-
view with him first. He went to the
military affains section of the Bureat
kawa Prefecture.
War Ministry. met the secretaries to
As he touched the door I stabbed his
Announcement Doubted
the War Minister and had luncheon
back, and I thought the plade ran
This communication. addressed to the
with them while awaiting the return
through his body and toueh the door.
presiding judge through the special de-
of Major-General Naata from the
The Major-General then tréed to escape
fense counsel. is said by Domei to be
Foreign Ministry. Continuing. the de-
by going around the table. I brought
substantially as follows:
fendant said:
down my blade on his shouldew with.
"The announcement made by the War
"After exchanging greetings with
all my force. Then someone oalled
Office immediately after the incident
Major-General Nagata I frankly told
my name.
stated that Lieutenant-Colonel Aizawa
him that the steps taken by the War
"Then I went to Major-General Yema-
had been moved to direct action by
Minister seemed to be rather improper.
oka's office and told the him that I
blind belicf in groundless rumors. but
'Since you. Major-General Nagata. are
just executed heaven's punishment.
I cannot take this at its face value.
the closest assistant to the War Minis-
Then I was taken to the room of the
The reasor: for this is not obscure: the
ter. I advise you to resign.' I said.
medical affairs section for treetment for
Navy Ministry publicly attributed the
"He asked me. What do you mean?
my bleeding finger. At that moment a
desth of the late Lieutenant-Comman-
Say it in a more concrete way.' Then
person on a stretcher was carried
der Eiji Kusakati to nerveus prostra-
he added. I appreciate your advice.
through, the corridor. Blood was drip
tion. whereas he actually died because
I am serving the War Minister with
pung from the stretcher. I reakised I
sincerity. If the War Minister does
failed to dispatch Major-Genkral Naga-
of extreme indimation over the con-
not listen to my advice. then I can't
ta with one stroke of the sword. 1
clusion of the London naval treaty.
help it.
was ashamed of it. because I was once
When this statement was first made. I
"After a few other questions had
an instructor of feocing in the To-
was a little skeptical but believed i
been exchanged. I felt that I could not
yama Military School.
reause i: had been rado by the Navy
trust him to be sincere in his attitude."
"A man in a business suit appeared.
My trust was shown false. however.
The defendant criticized Major-Gen-
I think he was a plain-clothes gen-
when the whole of the late lieutenant-
eral Nagata on the score that he at-
tarme. He asked me to go to the Ko-
commander's will was made public in
tempted to avoid any responsibility.
jimachi gendarmerie with him. I aaker-
the public P arings of the May 15 case.
Lieutenant-Colonel Aizawa said he
ed him to fetch my cap laft from
I learned that his death was one of
then met Captain Eiichi Okura and
Major-General Yamaoka's room. He
patriotism. Since then. my indignation
Zei Nishida that night and was told
refused to do it. and I was escorted
a: the Navy Office has been beyond
the "inside information" about the re-
down the staircase. While I ws being
description, and I cannot bring myself
moval of General Mazaki from his
taken to the gendarmerie in a motor-
to believe announcements by the au-
post.
After a recess of about 34 minutes,
car. I requested that a stop be made
thorities.
a! the Kaikosha so I could buy a cag.
the court session was resumed at 2:24
"The same may be said of the War
o'clock. The defendant resumed his
but this was refused. At the gendar-
Office's announcement regarding Lieu-
statement as follows:
merie station I was told about the deeth
"I returned to Fukuyama when I
of Major-Goneral Nagata and that the
tenant-Colonel Aizawa. As he knows
realized that Major-General Nagata
person who was carried on the stretche
very well what others are about. I can
did not intend to resign.'
er was Colonel Hideo Niimi, comsmand-
hardly think that he did what he did
Here the examining judge ordered the
er of the Dokyo Gandarmerie. I onm't
merely because of blind belief in false
defendant to tell about his coming to
recall wounding any other person."
Tokyo in August.
Asked if he were not tired the de-
reports. Consideration of his age and
"Many letters came since my return,"
fendant replied he would sontinue testi-
social position strengthens my view. I
the defendant said. "One from Cap-
fying as long as the Presiding Judem
cannot but trust my insight. which is
tain Koji Muranaka gave an explana-
wanted him to do so.
that he was not motivated by desire
tion of the circumstanees which led to
The session adjourned at 3:20 o'clock.
for fame and weaith. and I am forced
the removal af General Mazakd. After
The next hearing will tadke misce from
to be positive in denying the announce-
reading these letters I came to readize
10 o'clook Saturday morning...
ment of the authorities concerned.
that the elder statesmen, those close

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.97)
The Japan Advertiser, Feb. 7. 1936.
DETAILS MAY FORCE
Plausible in Spirit
S.: Do you mean to say that re-
formation is plausible in spirit?
HEARING OF AIZAWA
A.: Ycs.
S.: I believe that you knew very
woll that to murder your superior of-
ficer was a crime under the national
oppreseed them. There e
IN CLOSED SESSION
l.rws.
the army who did the
A.: Yes.
Spying. Atagare
02
S.: As you knew that to kill Major-
S.: What made you belleeg
General Nagata would violate the law.
you must also have known that you
Major-General took the in
the diamissal of Muranaka
Court-Martial Decides to Post-
woul:t b, charged with murder.
A.: I am not trying to evade the
kura as spies at the time  th
pone Next Sitting From To-
charge. 1 assassinated the Major-Gen-
martial of those involved in the
cral to save the nation from a crisis. I
ember incident and temgéed
morrow to Wednesday
was guided by that single conviction.
S.: That was your motive. I under-
stand it fulty. But your set broke the
Military Education in tht
SHIMADA ASKS QUESTIONS
law. Did you kioow hat you would
he punish d in accordance with the law
if you assassinated your superior?
jor-General Nagata.
S.: Have you in your
A.: (crying outt: I broke the law.
Defendant Declares Army Ex-
S.: Why did you not think of the
wa: connected with Tsuji and 
punishment before you took your dras-
ists to Scan Conditions and
kura?
tie step?
A.: I have.
End Social Evils
A.: I broke the law.
S.: Any concrete evidenee?
S.: You feel your responsibility, don't
A.: I assumed it.
you? I fail to comprchend what made
S.: You have said thet the Mader
BREAKING OF LAW UPHELD
you decide to go off to your post in
General trought pressure to beer 
Formosa after you killed he Major-
movements for clarification of the 
General.
tional polity.
The point has been reached in the
A.: I was a fool.
Given by Emperor
S.: Have you any conerete proef?
A.: I think he did.
questioning of Lieutenant-Colonel Sa-
S.: The Emperor gave the taws to
A.: You can see from the atthd
buro Aizawa. on trial before the court-
the people. and the people must respect
of a certain Inspector-General of **.
martial of the 1st Division for the as-
then.
S.: You have stated that momeone
sassination of Lieutenant-General Te-
A.: Yes. I understand.
interfered with the army transfers of
S.: If you break the law. you are
July of last year.
tsuzan Nagata last August, where the
acting against the wishes of the
A.: The Lord Keeper of the Prikgy
prosecution wishes to press the defen-
Throne.
Seal. Viscount Makoto Saito, was the
dent for details of a certain inc dent
The defendant made no response, but
man. I heard about it from someome?
in milit ry circles which was an im-
his pecial counsel. Dr. Somei Uzawa.
S.: Who?
portant factor in his convicton tnat
intervened with the objection that "it
A.: I read about it in Muranaka's
his superior. director of the military
's not proper to cite the law while the
memorandum and heard it from Iso-
zou:t is proveding with examination
bc.
affairs bureau of the War Office. had
of the fact.." A heated exchange fol-
Part Among Officers Asked
to be killed.
lowed. foreing the intervention of the
S.: There are three paths leading
The authorities desire. says the Nich.
presiding judge. after which the ques-
to the assassination of the Major-Ge
Nichi. to have the sessions public if
tioning of the defendant by Mr. Shi-
eral. Can you not speak of the part
possible. but the presiding judge in-
mada continued.
you played among the officers of th
dicated on two occasions at the fifth
S.: Did the defendant think that the Fukuyaina Regiment?
session of the trial yesterday that he
assassination of the Major-General S.: Don't you think that murder 
was reluctant to have the defendant
would result inevitably in the Showa direct action?
o into details pending further con-
Restoration?
A.: Do you imply that I killed the
sideration. Ore of the special coun-
A: 1 thought differently. but I Major-General in the same way 
sels for the defense. Lieutenant-Colo-
reahze that conmion sense was lacking. professional burglar kills a man?
nel Sakichi Mitsui. instructor in the
S.: Do you mean by saying common
S.: Don't you think that the May
Army Staff College and classmate of
ens was lacking that you came to
15 incident was caused by direct ac-
the defendant. urged. however. that
recognize that the assassination of the
tion?
the publie sessions be continued. as-
Major-General would not alone achieve
A.: What I did was direct action.
serting that exposure of all the details
tion. it was decided by the presiding
of the case would not affect the na-
tion seriously.
Because of the delicacy of the situa-
ii.
men with evil thoughts come to realize
the Showa Restoration?
Lieutenant-Colonel Aizawa again
A.: No. A restoration starts when
say, and Dr. Uzawa made the follow-
asked the defense if he had anything to
ing statement:
"The court looks upon this case
The presiding judge at this point
judge. in consultation with the prosecu-
tion and the defense. to postpone the
presented his views on the restoration
as that of a crime perpetrated by 
individual. The defendant was consci-
sixth session. originally seheduled for
tomorrow. unti! Wednesday of nex
Colone! Hiroshi Nemoto, chief of the
and recalled his shaking of hands with
ous of the very complicated situation.
however. and looked at the world in
week. In the interval. consideration
press seetion of the War Office. just
the light of it. He is definitely con-
will be given by the authorities con-
after the assassination.
vinced that the War Minister recom-
cerned to whether or not Wednesday's
S.: Does the defendant mean that
session will be partially in camera
bid men will be reformed if they act
with the room cleared of spectatots.
like that?

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.83)
(2 ) P
Niho
ESR
p 
d
éooc
e 
rin
b  te
ned
The Japan Advertiser,
ehs.
ur
n u
o 
dot
uo
a
ai
 no
enu in
ok c
an to uon s53
decns
d  o
or
price 
de
reviei vc
a n
a ito
r
e the
c
e-270
ena
e 
o co
scale.
iaoai
expoter
so far, the prosecution continued
 yesteruays session, the briefe
was ir
n
question the defendan'. pressing e
eo
e
pecially for clarification of what h
r
meant by his a m of bringing abou
   V
he
the ahed Show Restotation
purin
whethes or not be peadezed that he was
erh
breaking the law by killhing Lienteng
un i
ant-General Nagara and the reason
for his behef his supe or wes a men
    N
 b
ace to the Showa Reston ation
q     p    
b n
Lteutenant -Colonel A zawa declared
 S    S
  e
in one of his replies that the army
    S  
 h
exists to keep an eye on the world
Frlo  fof lver
rr
and eradicate social evils In defend-
aet
ing him. Lieutenant-Colonel Mitsui
a nrilvo
mended that the Inspector-General
maintained that it is permissible in a
Military Education resign. He believes
time of national crisis to break the
deeply in Muranaka's memorandum
law.
n
and wishes to explain this point in de
Shimada Asks Question
bonni
tail, but I do not think that he cn
After the opening of yesterday's ses-
h  h
do so unless the session is held i
sion. the presiding judge. Major-Gen-
or   o
camera.
eral Sato. asked Mr. Tomosaburo Shi-
"The Major-General said thet
mada. in charge of the prorecution. if
11
he had anything to ask the defendant.
according to Domei.
"In the last session." Mr. Shimad.
spoke. "the presiding judge asked the
defendant what he meant by the
Showa Restoration and the ways and
means to bring it about. The defen-
dant replied that it could be brought
about by the return to the Throne by
selfish clements of their powers. in-
cluding financial power, and by their
support of the Emperor in executing
policies. Did the defendant mean by
saying that they should be returned to
the Throne that subjects should not
possess these powers. or did he mean
that if they are possessed by subjects
they should be considered as borrow-
ed from the Throne?"
When Lieutenant - Colonel Aizawa
said that he had meant the latter, Mr
Shimada inquired how. then. he
thought that subjects could bring
about the Showa Restoration.
"I have spoken about that before in
the trial." the defendant stated. "In
brief. men with absolute respect for
the Throne will serve near the Em-
peror and s'rive to have the august
wishes of the Throne pervade the na-
tion. Army officers must unite to up-
hold the prestige of the Imperial Fa-
mily and give true luster to the Im-
perial army. The army and the gen-
eral public. moreover, must co-operate
and become as one in living up to the
wishes of the Throne."
Specific Answer Asked
Mr. Shimeda objected to the reply.
finding it equivocal. and demanded
that concrete measures for bringing
about the restoration be explained.
A: I have already spoken of that.
No sudden change can come in Japan's
ecopomic world. for example. in view
of its relations with foreign countries.
Therefore it cannot be returned to the
Theose. Education however, which is
besed en the spirit of the Imperial Re-

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.91)
om
éo the
P
The Japan Advertiser,
sd
do    cnt
n 
a e
g3n
ver
e
o  nt
n f5
c
iha
pat
tord
e  th
etn
scle.
xg
aiv
he o
  sne
fo i
n
silme
n
S V   
MOOTW
ée  o o 
ou 
n
dd n
S   P LAS
br
seupd on Eduestion issn  be the lat.
inarke.
Emperor Mea and the Reserip issued
a  sse
mended that the Inspector-General
when the Governnent withdrew from
Military Education resign. He belleves
the League of Nations. can be renovat-
dceply in Muranaka's memorandi
ed. Though the Education Minister has
b oeo
and wishes to explain this point im d
heavy responsibility of supporting the
boni
tail, but I do not think that he 
Throne, he cannot educate the people.
do so unless the session is held
I am asking you. as a soldier. about
S.: Your answer is not to the poin!.
r v
   Z
camera.
"The Major-General said that h
the ways and means of bringing about
A.: Yes.
could not hate a man because he had
the Showa Restoration.
Changing the topie. Mr. Shimada ask-
committed a crime. The defendant s
A.: An officer is an elder brother to
(d the judges to have the defendant
he failed to understand what he ment.
privates anl non-commissioned officers.
explain how he came into possession
He recommended that the Major-Ge
and a company commander is a father of our copies of Hew to Reconstruct
cral resign but as he reeeived no an-
to them The army exists to scan the
Japan. written by Kasuteru Kita. When
swer his indignation increased. The
general situation in the world and
this was finished. he resumed the ques-
fore, he killed the Major-General."
eradicate social evils through its leader-
ionig
Lieutenant-Colonel Aizawa inter
ship of privates and ex-servicemen. So
Meetings Undesirable
rupted to assert that "Major-Genera
delicate are th: relations between the
S.: Why was it undesirable, in your
Nagata had no idea of the nationd
army and society that I cannot comment
opinion, that Gereral Iwane Matsui. of
structure."
on iem.
the Supreme War Council, was staying
Would Bring Reflection
S.: What measures have you in mind.
at the Amono villa at Ito, Izu Penin-
"In short," Dr. Uzawa continued,
then, to convince the general publie of
sula?
am led to conclude that the defenda
the fundamental, of the na'ional
A: Because it is undesirable that an
was confident that if a serious inc
structure?
army officer should have seeret trans-
dent occurred in the army the peop
A.: Leadership of the Young Men's
actions with a businessman.
iou'd reflect on the situation and on
Associations and the Ex-Servicemen's
S.: Others might say the same of
(: his aims in bringing about th
Association.
your association with Nishida and other
Showa Restoration would be attained"
S.: What would you do if opposed?
Would Try Persuasion
mon.
A.: Others can look on it in any way
o'clock, and resumed at 1:03 o'clogk,
The court recessed at this point, 11:
A.: I should try to convince men
hey like.
when the other special counsel for the
about itie national polity on every pos-
S.: Did you not think that the Major-
defense. Lieutenant-Colonel Mitsul,
sible occasion.
General was having secret meetings
made the following statement.
S.: If you were certain that Major-
with members of the bloe of senior
"It is a matter for congratulation that
General Nagata was opposed to the
statesmen and financial cliques before
what the public regarded with de
Showa Restoration. why, then. did you
he assumed the post of director of the
concern has been clarified in the 
not take every opportunity to convince
him of your views?
military affairs bureau?
A.: Will the court permit me to go
sions of the court. Lieutenant-Colone
Aizawa was convinced that if Major
A. (Indigmant): The court has put
into things of the distant past?
General Nagata confessed his sin 
you do not understand me.
to me since the trial opened. I think
questions.
special emphasis on this in its questions
S.: You have only to answer my
to the mater later.
judge told him that he would return
be revealed. says Domei. the presiding
S.: When did you arrive at the con-
For fear that military secrets might
made efforts to serve the Theane 
to be exposed, the pation wopid
Showa Restoration would be achieved
Even if the details of the case es
A.: I have already answered.
clusion that ilve Major-General was
advisable thet the court procesd wi
restoration and reformation. You have
the prestige of the Throne.
said that renovation is detrimental to
S. Is there any difference between
having secret meetings with the senior
statesmen and financiers? Was it be-
fore he took the post in the War
Office?
its public sessions."
consider the matter.
The presiding Judge stated he we
A.: Yes. there is a difference. Restora-
A.: Yes. it was before.
tion is carried out by God.
S.: How long ago?
S: You mean that restoration is an
A.: I think it was toward the end of
act of God and reformation a deed
1982 or the beginning of 1833.
of man?
A.: No.
meetings with them even after becom-
S.: Did he continue te bave sscret
nel Baburo Aisane. The
T.: I mean that the realization of
ing director of the military affairs
refermation is detrimental to the pre-
bureau?
stige of the Throne.
S.: I ats aking whother there la n
S: Whem de you meen by semier
A.: Yes.
difference between restoration and re-
statesmen, snenciens and fmeeurats?
formetion.

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
The Japan Advertiser, Feb. 7, 1936.
ARMY AIMS TO EASE
In the army an outline of the re-
gular shifts is being drawn up by
Major-General Atsushi Atomiya, di-
TENSION OVER TRIAL
rector of the personnel bureau of the
War Office. and he expects to have it
ready for presentation to the War Min-
istc: and other executives about the
middle of this month.
Officers Expected to Be Warned
The March changes in the army are
expected to be less extensive than those
to Exercise Care in Mixing
effected in August and December, be-
cause most of the major changes con-
With Civilians
templated were effected then.
Strengthening of unity and control
cf the army will be the primary con-
PLAN FOR SHIFTS DRAFTED
sideration, said the Yomiuri. In the
individual officer, ability will count
first. then character and general re-
Takahashi, Fujita to Become
cord.
Sugiyama to Remain
Admirals—9 Major-Generals
The assistant chief of the general
staff, Lieutenant-General Hajime Su-
Due for Promotion
giyama. apparently will remain in his
present post, and no retirements are
expected among senior members of the
As a step to alleviate tension pro-
Supreme War Council. but the shifts
duced in the army by the trial of
are awaited with some expectancy for
any possible reflection of the influence
Licute"ant-Colonel Saburo Aizawa for
of the Aizawa trial. it was said.
the assassination of Licutenant-General
The following major-generals, said
Tetsuzan Nagata. War Office authori-
the Yomiuri, are to be promoted to the
ties are repcrted to have decided to
rank of lieutenant-general: Kunijiro
Ito. director cf the Army Aircraft
warn army officers to exercise caution
Technical Research Institute; Koru Na-
in their contacts with civilians.
kamura, attached to the headquarters
War Minister Yoshiyuki Kawashima.
of the 9th Division; Kesakichi Naka-
conferring with General Jotaro Wata-
jima, head of the Narashino Military
nabe. Inspector-Geeral of Military
School; Munetake Yamamuro. head of
Education. and Lieutenant-General Ki-
the Field Artillery School; Mikoto Ma-
yoshi Imai, director of the military af-
tsui, chief of fortifications headquart-
fairs bureau. was stated by the Koku-
ers; Mitsunobu Sano. head of the Ha-
min to have decided to emphasize the
mamatsu Army Aviation School; To-
following two points:
shishiro Obata, head of the military
1. Some members of the military
Staff College; Yasutsugu Okamura,
Forvice have too much contact with
head of the second section of the Gen-
people outside the army ranks in local
eral Staff Officc. and Kenji Doihara.
districts. a fact which may tend to
head of the Kwantung Army's special
aroue suspicion on the part of the
service organ at Mukden.
public. Hence caution must be exer-
Except for the appointment of Major-
cised in relaticns with outside in-
General Doihara as highest adviser to
fluences.
the Hopei-Chahar Political Council, all
of these officcfs are expected to re-
2. There are also civilian elements
main in their present posts with their
seeks to utilize their relations with
higher ranks.
members of the military service, and
grcat care must be exercised to avoid
being taken in by their propaganda.
Two Will Become Admirals
With date for new personnel changes
in the army and navy approaching. the
Yoniuri reported yesterday that both
Vice-Admiral Sankichi Takahashi, com-
mandc: cf the combined fleet, and Vice-
Admiral Naonori Fujita, commander of
the Kure naval station. are slated to
be promoted to the rank of full Ad-
miral about March 2. Navy Minister
Mineo Osumi is expected to seek im-
perial sanction for the promotions soon,
it was stated.

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 23, 1936.
EHD:
JOH:
SKH
The Embassy's despatch No. 1758 of
April 1, 1936, prepared jointly by Mr. Grew
and Mr. Dickover, attempts to interpret the
trends of the new government in Tokyo in
the light of statements by and actions of
members of the cabinet.
The Hirota cabinet is definitely com-
mitted to a program of reform of the
economic maladjustments and political abuses
in Japan. As yet it is too early to judge
precisely the form and extent which the
promised reforms will take.
The despatch quotes from statements
made by several members of the cabinet,
and describes a number of bills which the
government is reported to be preparing for
introduction in the Diet. None of these
statements and measures indicate that there
is contemplated any radical change in the
economic structure or in the form of
government. The Embassy does not believe
that the measures proposed by the government
will offer any very drastic variation from
the accepted system and practice in Japan.
However, one may look for changes in
two main directions: the first toward
strengthening

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
strengthening national defense, through
stricter discipline in the army; through
"thought education" of the people; and
through government control of basic in-
dustries. The second direction in which
changes may be expected is toward economic
reforms through adjustments in the tax
system; through government control and
encouragement of industry; through tariff
revision; through revision of the land and
tenancy laws; and through various agrarian
measures designed to alleviate the plight
of the farmers.
The Embassy points to its earlier
prediction that the events of February
might result in a revulsion of feeling
against the military, and states that
while a public revulsion against the army
as a whole is hardly to be expected, there
is certainly a marked tendency to decry the
outlook and methods of the more radical
elements in the army. Disapproval of these
elements has been manifested not only by
the public but also by the army and navy.
Measures taken by the Ministers of War and
Navy have demonstrated a determination to
rid the forces of disquieting elements.
I suggest that you glance through the
appended editorial article from the JAPAN
TIMES, written probably by Dr. Ashida, a
prominent publicist and former member of
Parliament. It is more informative than
the despatch.
N7
WTT/DLY

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.94)
OFFIGE OF EOOMONNC AVISER
MAY 2 193621
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1936 APR  11 38
No. 1758.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, April 1, 1936.
is
SUBJECT: POICIES OF THE HIROTA CABINET.
fidence
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. AND M. I.D.
94.00
Lurion-Check
Yes
In U.S.A.
2
894.002
on1
CONFIDENTIAL.
MID
894.00/643
Cr/y-im FE(381)
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAPR 2 1 1936
Department of State
ASSCTANT SECRETARY
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
OF STATE
Jashington.
Sir:
635
Heferring to the Embessy's despatch No. 1733,
dated March 19, 1936, on the subject of the policies
1536
of the new Government and public opinion in regard
thereto, I believe that the development of the poli-
cies of the Hirote Cabinet, which is definitely com-
mitted to a program of reform of the economic malad-
justments and political abuses in Japan, will be of
great importance in determining future trends in this
F/FG
country

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
country and I shall therefore endeavor to keep the
Department currently apprised of such developments.
On Merch 26, 1936, the prefectural governors were
called to Tokyo to receive their general instructions
from the new Cabinet. he speeches made on this occasion
by the Premier, the Minister for Finance, the Home Linister,
the Minister for Justice and the War Minister serve to
elucidete in some smell measure the general statement
of policy issued on -arch 17 and reported in despatch
o. 1733.
In the opening portion of his speech, Premier Hirota
stated, according to the TOKYO NICHI NICHI:
"It is not en easy tesk to overcome the dif-
ficulties of the prevailing netional exigency.
The fact that this denlorable incident has
taken place unexpectedly makes us realize that
in the present situation we are confronted with
many dirficulties and that the causes thereof are
very remote and deep-rooted."
Mr. Hirota then reiterated the statement of policy issued on
march 17, and stated that the Goverment would devise prac-
ticel reform schemes, to be graduelly put into execution.
He urged the need for stricter official discipline and
exhorted all governmental officials to carry out their
duties honestly and conscientiously. ne asked for complete
cooperation between the centrel end local authorities in
carrying out the necessary reforms and requested the Govern-
ors to explain the reforms to the people, in order that
national solidarity might be atteined.
Mr. Hayashi, the Minister for Justice, urged his
audience to eradicate thoughts encouraging direct action
in disregard of the law, whatever may be the motives in-
spiring such direct action. He pointed out that, under a
constitutional

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
constitutional form of gover.ment, political demands
should be fulfilled through the netional assembly and
other constitutional organs. He said that a spirit of
obedience to the law must be cultivated among the people,
in order to avoid crimes caused by direct action methods.
He urged close cooperation among the agencies concerned
for the purpose of ma ntaining public peace end order,
stated that the local officials must closely watch for
signs of communism, and urged the elimination of the
unrest following the incident of February 26 by the con-
trol of newspapers and other literature likely to mis-
guide the public. e stated thet as the methods of cri-
minel action are developing constantly and threaten
to become international in their scope, the Depertment
of Justice intends to enforce new preventive measures
in the near future. e also urged the further control
of the angs of bullies who cause much of the social un-
rest. (The reference here was to the angs of bullies
for hire, who commit many of their crimes under the guise
of patriotism.)
The Minister For Finance, r. Baba, in his speech
before the Governors, stated that it wes inevitable that
nationel exnenditures be increased, end that in oräer to
obtain the additional revenue necessary to meet the in-
creesed expenditures, it would be necessary to promote
industry and trede and to enhance the national prosperity.
He seid that it was urgently necessery to readjust end im-
prove the system of taxation, in order to ecualize the
burden of texation and to increase the revenue of the state.
However,

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.97)
- 4 -
However, he said, as the national finances are based
on the national economic strength, it will be imperative
to avoid the destruction of the economic power of the
people which might be csused by sudden changes in the
.economic system. He further said thet it would be ne-
cessary to adopt en adequate currency policy and a low
money rete policy, in order to promote the adjustment
of the debts of the agricultural and fishing classes.
Home Minister Ushio, in his address to the Governors,
seia that the local officials should endeavor to suppress
movements which run counter to the netional polity and
which violate the law, but tiey should tolerate move-
ments which are pure in motive and moderate in method.
The officials should also exercise stricter control over
dangerous rumors and literature designed to cause un-
rest among the people and should encourage sobriety and
sincerity.
They should endeavor to stabilize and im-
prove the national life ana to har onize conflicting
interests in the nation. ie then said that the Ministry
of lome Affairs was consiuering measures for local taxa-
tion reforms, for enforcement of a more definite social
policy, and for the encouracement of enterprises which
will increase the economic strength of the people, es-
pecially in the rural districts.
The address of General Terauchi, Minister for War,
L1
was perhaps the most interesting. He referred first
to a growing teneency emong the people to question their
duty

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
duty in regard to conscription and to exhibit an unwilling-
ness to support the Army at all times. He asked the Govern-
ors to cooperate with the military in eradicating these
undesirable tenuencies and in restoring perfect harmony
between the military and the citizenry. He also stated
that, although the insurrection of February 26 wes carried
out by a handful of young officers instigated by radical
elements outside the Army, there vere rumors that the in-
surgents were supported by high Army officers or even by
the whole Army. Such rumors, criticizing the Army and
tending to estrange the public from the Army, should be
suppressed. The local officials should also cooperate
with the Army in eliminating the lawless elements which
are instigating the young officers to direct action, and
in suppressing the "mysterious documents" which add to the
unrest in the Army. (The reference here is to certain
secretly-printed pamphlets, criticizing the Government
and the administration of the Army itself, which have
been circulated among rmy officers.)
The War Minister
also asked the Governors to assist in strengthening
the netional conception of the conscription system.
(This is the first time, as far as the Embassy is aware,
that a high Army officer has publicly stated that there
is growing opposition in Janan to the conscription system.)
It will be ooserved that throughout most of these ad-
äresses there runs a thread of similar thought, namely,
the sumpression of radical ideas, whether coming from the
ultra-netionalist or the socialist side, which tend to
create unrest and to cause incidents such as that of
February 26.

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.97)
- 6 -
八
February 26. This inaicates what will probably be the
basic activity of the new Gover ment, namely, the stricter
control of the rightist element in the population(the
leftist element already being pretty thoroughly suppressed),
at the seme time endeavoring gredually to eliminate the
basic maladjustments which give this element some excuse
for violent action.
The uestion arises, however, if
driving this element underground will not cause it to
become even more dancerous to the State than it is at pre-
sent.
The new legisletion hich vill be introduced into the
special session of the iet, Which vill be convened for
three weeks rrom ay 1, vill lso serve to give an indi-
cation of the concrete policies of the new Cabinet.
While
the bills have not yet been considered by the Cabinet as a
whole end it cannot therefore be stated definitely that
they vill be introduced into the iet, the newspapers
report thet the following legislation has been arafted
and submitted to the chief Secretary of the Cabinet for
the consideratior of the Cabinet:
By the Jabinet itself:
A bill for founding an electric
power company to assist in the industrialization of the
Tohoku district and a bill providing for the establisiment
of the Tohoku Development Company(the Tohoku, or North-
eastern, district of Japan is chronically afflicted with
femines and other catastrophes, and there has been an
urgent demand for the relief of the people of the district).
By the Finance Ministry:
A bill for partial revision
of the income tax law; e bill for revision of the import
tariff; e bill concerning the "red-ink" bond issues; a bill
for

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
for investigation of land rents; and a bill for the re-
vision of the law for the encouragement of the iron in-
dustry.
By the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry: A bill
for autonomous rice control; a bill for revision of the
existing rice control law; a bill to encourage the storage
of unhulled rice; & bill revising the existing cocoon
disposal control lew; a bill revising the silk guild law;
a bill revising the law for the encouragement of horse-
breeding through horse-racing; a bill revising the farm
debt readjustment guild law; and a bill revising the fer-
tilizer control lew.
By the Ministry of Commerce and Industry:
A bill
concerning the Central Sank for Commercial and Industrial
Guilds; a bill for revising the existing law for the control
of ey inuustries; a bill for revising the existing Petroleum
Industry Law;ana a bill for encouraging the domestic manu-
facture of cutomobiles.
By the Ministry of -ducation: A bill for state indemni-
fication of educational expenditures for young men.
It will be observed that, although none of these bills
indicates eny startling alteration in the form or procedure
of goverrment, they do indicate a start toward the correction
of defects in the present financial and economic structure and
toward the further governmentel control of key industries,
thus tending to implement Lir. firota's policy of graduel
reform of the conditions causing sociel unrest in Japan and
also imolementing the Army's policy of strengthening nationel
defense through governmental control of certain basic in-
dustries. How radical the changes provided for by these bills
are

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.97)
-8-
are to be will not be knowm until they have been presented
to the Diet, but in view of Mr. Hirota's declared policy
of "making haste slowly" in regard to reforms in the present
political and economic structures, and in view of the fact
that the bills have probably been arafted by and represent
to a certain extent the ideas of the permenent under-officials
of the Ministries concerned, it is not believed that they
will offer any very drastic variations from the accented
governmentel system and practice in Jepan.
There is enclosed a clipping from the JAPAN TI.ES AND
C
MAIL of march 28, 1936, containing an editorial (probably
fromthe pen f Dr. Ashida) on the general subject of the
policy of t e new Cabinet toward reforms in Japan. The edi-
torial develops the interestin thesis thet Japan is in
great danger of being involved in a major international
war durins the present generation; that therefore the
military must of necessity play a leading role in deter-
mining state policy in Japan, in order to provide for
national defense; thet the ideology prevailing in the Army
is therefore of the greatest importence to the nation;
and thet the struggle between liberalism and ultra-national-
ism in Japan is not between volitical parties on the one
side and militarists on the other, but is in fact taking
place anong factions in the Army itself.
In the Embessy's telegram No. 51, February 29, 7 p.m.
I observed thet our first reaction to the events of the
past four days was that they might well cause a revulsion
of feeling against the military and that the final re-
sults of the uprising might be salutary. While a general
public revulsion against the Army is too broad a statement,
it

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.97)
- 9 -
it may be said with assurance that not only among the
public but in the Army end Navy themselves there has
been a marked tendency to decry the outlook and methods
of the "airect actionists", a disapproval which has been
menifested by recent retirenents and shifts in the high
personnel of both forces. I hope before long to be able
to report and appraise these movements in personnel
in a more concrete way, but for the present it may be said
that both the Minister of ar, General Terauchi, ana the
Minister of the Navy, Admirel Nagano, ere believed to possess
qualities of liberal stetesmanship ana thet the measures
teken by them in me ters of personnel up to the present have
demonstrated a deter.ination to rid the forces of the more
cheuvinistic and disquieting elements, thereby reflecting
the general attitude and policy of the Hirots Cabinet.
The
adaresses of the verious members of the Cobinet to the
ssembled prerectural governors, reported in this despatch,
give e fair criterion of this policy as reflected in civil
affairs. It remains, or course, to be seen whether this
enunciuted policy, clearly of a salutery nature, will be
carried out in construclive action.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
d
Enclosure:V Clipping from the JAPAN TILES AND LAIL,
March 2s, 1936.
800.
JCG:ERD:r
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to
The Japan Times.
despatch No. 1758 of
April 1, 1936 from
Tokyo, Saturday, March 28, 1936. the Embassy at Tokyo.
It is not to be expected th
What Of Reform?
perfect and detailed reform pi
should spring fult-ßeged
Japan is quite evidently in for
the brains of the Government or
a period of drastic reform and
other officials. Careful study, in-
readjustment of personnel, of
vestigation and reflection are
administrative machinery and of
essential if fundamental reforms
policies of every nature. That is
rather than temporary and hastily
evident from this week's addresses
conceived hypotheses are to be
to the Prefectural Governors, as
put into practice. Both press and
well as from every utterance of
public conversations are filled with
the Hirota Ministry. It is, of
talk of an innumerable variety of
course, shéer idleness to make
schemes regarding this or that
any definite predictions at this
concrete measure, prediction that
moment regarding the form these
this step is to be taken and that
readjustments are to take; all
institution or accepted practice to
that is possible is to recognize
go by the board. Most of this
certain fundamental and guiding speculation is hardly worth put-
principles running through them. ting on paper and, fortunately,
It is not so much that the Feb- much of it is not. It is, however,
ruary 26 Incident has necessi- most indicative of the ferment
tated reform in military, political, that is now going on in public
economic and other lines of thinking, and from that ferment
activity, as that existing condi- change is bound to result.
tions were so badly in need of This reform will not be con-
change for the better that they finetl to any one part of the
gave rise to the Incident. What National Government, the services
the abortive insurrection has of the State or section of the
accomplished in this direction nation's life. It is not at all un.
was to awaken Japan, from the usual for demand for reform to
highest officials to the lowliest wear itself out in public agitation
non-taxpayer, to this fact. It is a and no actual reform be accom-
little difficult to realize that no plished, the people being willing
general conception of such condi-
to settle back quietly into the old
tions and of the direction in
ways once they have given their
which certain theories and lines
brains and their tongues sufficient
of thought were tending existed
exercise in that agitation. Jo
among the general public, nor
some extent this may happen in
that it was fargely ignorant of a
the present instance, and the ulti-
state of affairs which afforded
mate reform undertaken prove
such a fertile breeding ground for
nowhere nearly as drastic as it ai
these theories. Neverthcless this
present forecast, but the public
is the case, and insofar as the
has been too deeply moved by the
Incident has shaken the public
events of the pust few weeks to
into a knowledge thereof, rude
go back docilely to the pre-
and tragic as the method required
February,26 conditions in their
undoubtedly is, good has been
entirety. Change, and really
accomplished.
effective change, of some sort is
The first stunning public reac-
demanded and will be enforced.
tion was one of both gravity and
It is to be hoped that the wisdom
mortification, mortification that
of those making such change will
certain treasured ideals and idols
be sufficient to result in genuine
had been discovered to have feel
reform instead of mere change.
of clay after all. This was fol.
Perhaps the dominant principle
lowed by a slowly rising but
running through this reform will
deep-seated and implacable de-
be the elimination of all'thought
termination that essential changes
and teaching subversive to the
should and would be brought
State and the principles upon
about. As each day passes this is
which the Empire is based,
coupled with the reform of vari-
giving way to a more and more
firmly rooted, almost an obstinate
ous institutions in this same direc-
and stubborn demand that such
tion. The danger here lies in the
reforms shall be instituted as to
possibility that repression may be
make impossible any future repe-
nistaken as a cure. Surely Japan
has had sufficient experience dur-
tition of the Incident or of other
incidents even faintly resembling
it in nature.

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.99)
ing recent years to sèe that
come.
thought cannot be controlled
moderate element in
merely by hidebound rules and a
very much in the
vigilant police force. What is
present and a telling blow
essential, what is a rudimentary
principle in the sclence of psy-
struck at that type of military
chology, is that one thought must
thinking which would prove
be supplanted by another if it is
dangerous to the Empire. Gen-
to be driven out. In that way only eral Count Terauchi's appeal to
can it be accomplished, and the the Governors is one of the most
task of those in charge of finding significant addresses made in
the proper teaching to replace Japan in years. While not de-
what they consider inimical is in- parting one iota from the sèfe-
deed a grave one.
guarding of the nation, the army
The place of the army in the
can easily so direct its course that
State is secure. It is utterly
criticism of it will be reduced to
ridiculous to talk of the subordi-
a minimum or even entirely elimi-
nation of the army to a minor role
nated. It is not the army in itself
in the Japan of the present day.
that is subject to public criticism
It is not a question of choice but
—far from it—but the ideas that
of necessity that the military
may or may not govern in the
should play one of the leading
army.
roles in the determination of
This same general principle,
State policy, particularly of con-
that of strengthening the State for
structive internal policy. Given
the defense of its interests in
the world condition now in
preparation for the supreme test,
existence—-and that is all we can
will determine the reforms and
be given—Japan cannot for a
readjustments in all other lines of
moment afford to neglect the fact
activity. It will play its part
that it faces the very real danger
most emphatically in financial
of being involved in a major in-
and economic affairs. Revision
ternational war during the pre-
of the taxation system, increased
sent generation, perhaps in a
control of industry and all other
struggle for its very independence
mooted schemes must be looked
as a sovereign nation and certain-
upon from this viewpoint. In
ly as one of the principal Powers
education, too, it will dominate
of the world. 'There is no use in
and here indeed only the greatest
talking of whether this is desira-
wisdom can prevent the making of
ble or not; it is blunt fact. The
serious missteps. In the changes
Foreign Offces in the West that
in administrative machinery the
overlook this fact will find them-
whole tendency will be to build
selves utterly at sea in trying to
up an organization that can
read Japanese policy and will be
effectively stand the strain that
apt to make fools of themselves.
may be put upon it during a great
Given this situation, national
national crisis. No matter in what
policy must of necessity be so
direction one may turn, this same
shaped as to insure the greatest
principle will be found operative;
possible chances of victory if and
The world at large, in looking
when that war comes. may be
at and judging Japan and its
avoided, and this is devoutly
policy, may well err unless !t
hoped, but preparation for it can-
realizes this fact, and brand as
not be dodged: Japan has no
militaristic what is not truly so.
alternative.What thus becomes
It may not be a matter of choice
of supreme importance are the
with Japan; there is no other
ideology and outlook of the direc-
choice at the moment. That there
tors of military policy. The
is grave danger to Japan in the
struggle between democracy and
path it will now have to tread is
liberalism versus ultar-nationalis-
obvious. Only the wisest of
tic conservatism and narrow
minds, only the sanest and most
idealism is not to be found at this
level of counsels can prevent go-
moment in a battle between poli-
ing to an extreme which might in
tical parties and militarists-
itself, however unintentionally,
bureaucrats for control of State
provoke the very menace which
policy. It is to be looked for,
this Empire is seeking to avoid
rather, within the ranks of the
but against which it has no alter-
fighting Services. The type of
native save to prepare.
thinking and the line of policy
that will govern the high military
and naval commands will govern
national policy for some time to

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.94)
NO. 336
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
50
1936 APR
Liue
Division
CONFIDENTIAL
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
机
MPR 2 1 1936
Department of Sote
SUBJECT:
THE TOKYO COUP: REPERCUSSIONS IN HARBIN.
No
11
ID T SA
THE HONORABLE
OHI MID
894.00/644
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
confidence
COPIES SENT TO
WASHINGTON.
O.N.I. AND M. I.D.
SIR:
I have the licnor to enclose a copy of uy despatch
No.214, of March 17, 1936, to the American mbassy, Pei-
ping, on the sutject of "The Tokyo Coup: Repercussions
Harbin
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
Respectfully yours,
OF STATE
MAY 11
FILED
Garge D. farmont
1936
George D. Lallont,
Americen Consul.
Enclosures:-
Copy of despatch No.s14 to the
Embassy, Peiping.
800
HMB: ne
1—1221

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.93)
No. 214
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL,
HARBIN, MANOHURIA, Meroh 17, 1956.
CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT:
TH TOKYO COUP: REPERCUSSIONS IN HARBIN.
22：
I have the honor to inform the mbassy thet soon
efter the essassinations in Tokyo on Pebruary 26 a
rumor waa cirouleted in Harbin thet over thirty Jepe-
nese, inoluding about twelve officers, were arrested by
the Cendarmes, and thet similer action was being taken
by the Gendermes in other perte of "Menohukuo".
This rumor was firat heard from Russien sourees,
and probebly leeked out through Russian interpreters
and employees of the Gendarmes. No reasons for the
arrests were mentioned, although it was generally sur-
mised that they wore in some way oonneated with the Tokyo
incident. The arrests have eince become almost
gossip, and conrirmation or a relieble neture frem
Bese sourees lesée the Consulete Gemeralt
the rumere are true.
uilitasy contz
tho are closer te the Aey the

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.92)
action they proposed to take have not been made slear,
while the prompt arrest of the onnspiretore apparently
put a stop to their plans.
Nevertheless, it seems feir-
ly certain thet there was widespread
Vanehuria
with the Tokyo rebels, with possible ectuel complioity.
to the final
peraaraph o.
125.
of.aron le where~
in mention is mnde of inerensed activity among the Gendarmes
in that city.
Respeotfully yours,
Ceorge D. Lavont,
Amerioan Consul.
In quintuplicate to the Department
by despatoh No.33s of Maroh 17. 1936.
Copy to the Embassy, Nanking.
Copy to the Embassy, Tokyo.
Copy to the Consulate General, Mukden.
Copy to the Consulate, Dairen.
800
HMB: no
True copy of
the original.
N2

=== Page 124 === (confidence 1.00)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
May 8, 1936.
EHD:
The Embassy's No. 1784 of Apri1 17
discusses developments following the
February 26 incident.
As yet it is not easy to determine
from the welter of opinions and suggestions
advanced from various quarters the course
to be followed by the Japanese Government.
However, the Embassy states that the follow-
ing may be safely predicted:
Despite military opposition to the
political parties it appears that no
attempt will be made to abolish the system
of partisan politics. Political parties
are recognized by the most powerful states-
men of Japan to be necessary to the proper
functioning of constitutional government.
There are indications that the House
of Peers is to be reformed. The proposed
reform would make of the House of Peers
a sort of congress of representatives of
vocational groups, and would be composed
of representatives of various strata of
Japanese society rather than a congress
of peers, high taxpayers, and intellectuals,
as at present.
It

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
It appears that the Cabinet Inquiry
Council, which was brought into being by
the Okada Cabinet in order to give it the
appearance of a truly national government,
is to be abolished. It is reported that
the functions of the Cabinet Inquiry
Council will be taken over in part by 
Cabinet ministers without portfolio who
would be entrusted with the formulation
of policies. This plan is only tentative
and may not be carried out.
Disciplinary action within the army
affected twelve outstanding officers of
high rank. In addition six full generals
were placed on the reserve list. Action
taken against these officers will pre-
sumably impress on the rank and file of
the army the serious harm to the military
organization which an ill-considered act
of theirs can do.
The Embassy comments: "There seems
to be little doubt that, as a result of the
incident of February 26, the moderate elements
in the Army have obtained control of that
organization...
This rise of the moderate
element does not imply that the Army has
less influence than previously in the
councils of state . . . or that it is less
determined than previously in regard to
its policy on the Asiatic continent."
The

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 3 -
The navy likewise, although not
implicated in the February 26 event, has
embarked on a policy of reformation. A
number of high officers who are felt to
be trouble makers have been transferred
or retired.
Various economic reforms are promised
by the new government, but it appears that
they will be effected in a slow and
cautious manner.
It is believed that this summary
covers the main points of the despatch,
which need not be reed unless you have
some extra time.
894.00/645
WTT
WTT/DLY

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
400
No. 1784.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, April 17, 1936.
SUBJECT: AFTERMATH OF THE FEBRUARY 26TH INCIDENT.
894.00
Grade
D:- Iurion-Cheek
Vca
No
0
For
In U S A.
ONI
894.00/645
MID
THE UNDER SECRETARY
Copay in FE(381)
MAY 11 1930
CONFIDENTIAL.
PLPARTMENT OF STATE
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAY 5-1936
Department of State
E 
The Honorable
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I.ANDMLD.
Secretary of State,
CLVIS AO
Washington.
r:
the incident of February 26, 1936, promises to
bring far-reaching alterations in the economic and social
MAY 11
FID
struoture of the Japanese State, to the end that the deep
15.1936
seated causes leading to that incident and previous inci-
dents may be eliminated, the Embassy will endeavor to folfow
developments and to report periodically to the Department
MAY 15 1936
FILED
such developments as appear to indicate probable future
trends in the Japanese body politic. At the present time
there

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
there is a welter of opinions and suggestions, emanating
from political parties, the Army and Navy, statesmen,
industrialists and financiers, in regard to possible
changes and reforms, but as yet there have been few con-
crete steps taken which would serve to indicate the path
of future progress in the reorganization of the nation.
Such as have appeared, however, are described in the fol-
lowing pages.
Political(Domestic)
Although the military have been opposed to the poli-
tical parties for some years, principally because of the
corruption in the parties and the assumption on the part
of some of the more radical militarists that the political
parties are usurping the authority of the Emperor, it
now appears that no attempt will be made to abolish the
system of partisan politics - a step which appeared possi.
ble when the military endeavored to assume a dominant
position in the formation of the Hirota Cabinet. It will
be remembered that during the negotiations between Mr.
Hirota and the Army prior to the formation of the Cabinet,
the Army was reported to have demanded that the representa-
tion of partisan politicians in the Cabinet be limited
to one member each from the Seiyukai and the Minseito.
Mr. Hirota won this battle, and obtained two members of
the Cabinet from each of the two large political parties.
Later the question of the appointment of Parliamentary
Vice-Ministers and Counsellors for each Ministry came into
the limelight. The Army and Navy objected to the appoint-
ment of any Parliamentary Vice Ministers and Counselors,
but

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
but the political parties insisted that they were necessary
for cooperation between the executive and legislative
branches of the Government, and eventually won their point,
with the result that of the twenty-two such officials ap-
pointed on April 14, eight came each from the Seiyukai and
Minseito, five from the House of Peers, and one from the
Showakai. The Army remained firm, however, and refused
to accept a party man as Parliamentary Vice Minister, al-
though it did accept a member of the House of Peers,
but refused to accept any Parliamentary Counselor whatever.
The Navy accepted a party man as Parliamentary Counselor
but refused to accept any Parliamentary Vice Minister.
Despite these compromises, it seems certain that the mili-
tary lost this battle as well as the first battle over party
representation in the Cabinet. The political parties, moreover,
have some staunch advocates in the persons of some of the
most powerful statesmen in Japan. Prince Saionji is known
to be firmly convinced that partisan politics is necessary
for the proper functioning of a constitutional government
and is therefore opposed to the abolition of the parties
or their reorganization into one large party. Prince Fumi-
maru Konoye, the President of the House of Peers, has
also recently appeared as an advocate of the political
parties, on the ground that, as long as constitutional govern
ment remains in Japan, the political parties will be necessary.
He did, however, express the hope that politics could be
further purified.
Several of the more prominent Peers, including Prince
Konoye, have come forward with plans for the reform of the
peerage

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.98)
一4 -
peerage and of the House of Peers. It will be remembered
that in a previous despatch the Embassy brought out the
point that in the February 26 and previous incidents,
the young insurgents apparently made no attempt to attack
the hereditary nobility, despite their wealth, but con-
fined their attentions to the industrial and financial
barons, politicians and statesmen. This, it is believed,
was due to the faot that the hereditary nobility are
largely descendants of the daimyo of feudal days and as
such, in the minds of the insurgents, entitled to positions
of wealth and influence. It now appears, however, that
there has been some opposition to the Peers among the
people. It is felt that they should return to their
ancestral acres, instead of playing at politics in Tokyo,
and endeavor there to reform the conditions of rural life.
Prince Konoye himself advocates the return of the nobility
of daimyo descent to their lands.
Prince Konoye has also brought forward a plan, vague
as yet, for the reform of the House of Peers. He proposes
to abolish certain of the hereditary seats held by Princes
and Marquises; to reduce the number of seats held by re-
presentatives of the Counts, Viscounts and Barons; to
revise the system of elective and appointive members;
to eliminate the influence of political parties in the
House of Peers;and to endeavor to change that House into
a sort of congress of representatives of vocational groups,
rather than a congress of representatives of the Peers and
the

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
the high tax-payers, as it is at present. This change,
if it materializes, will constitute an interesting inno-
vation in parliamentary systems. The Lower House will then
be composed of politicians, representing geographical
districts and political parties, while the Upper House
will be composed of representatives of various strata
of Japanese life and various vocational groups.
It is reported that the Cabinet has definitely
decided to abolish the Cabinet Inquiry Couneil (also
variously called the "Cabinet Investigation Council",
the "National Policy Inquiry Council", the " Cabinet
Policy Investigation Council". etc.). This Council,
composed of prominent statesmen, industrialists, poli-
ticians and financiers, was brought into being by the
Okada Cabinet, partly, according to some, in order to
have some organization to which the Cabinet could "pass
the buck". While this may be true to some extent,
it seems that the principal reason for the Cabinet
Inquiry Council was to give the Okada Government the
appearance, at least, of a truly national government,
which it was not, as it did not have the support of the
Seiyukai, then the dominant party in the Lower House
of the Diet. By having a sort of sub-Cabinet, really
representative of the political parties, business-men
and other factions of the body politic, which would be
charged with formulating the policies to be executed
by the Cebinet, it was hoped that the Okada Government
would

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
would be greatly strengthened. The Council, however, had
no real function except the political one mentioned above,
and when the Okada Cabinet was overthrown as a result of the
incident of February 26, there was no longer any reason
for the Council's existence, as the Hirota Cabinet is more
nearly a real national government, needing no subterfuges
to justify its position. It is expected that the Cabinet
Inquiry Council will be replaced, in a measure, by Cabinet
Ministers without portfolio. One plan is to appoint four
or five such Ministers, who would be entrusted with the
formulation of policies, to be executed by the Ministers
with portfolio, who would really be administrative officers
only. This plan, however, smacks too much of the Cabinet
Inquiry Council plan, and probably will not be adopted.
Another plan is to appoint only one or two Ministers without
portfolio, who will act as Vice Premiers and one of whom
will ex officio become the chairman of the Cabinet Inquiry
Bureau, which will be retained by the Hirota Cabinet. The
Cabinet Inquiry Bureau is not entrusted with the formulation
of policies, but merely with conducting the investigations
requested by the Cabinet for the purpose of formulating
policies.
Military.
The principal development in the Army organization since
the incident of February 26, 1936, has been the enforced re-
tirement of all the higher officers in command of the units
to which the insurgent troops were attached, even though
those

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.98)
-7 -
those officers had no direct connection with the affair.
This retirement, or placing on the reserve list, was en-
forced in a chain from the first lieutenants up through
the captains, majors, lieutenant colonels, colonels and
major generals to the lieutenant generals in command of
the divisions which included the insurgent troops. Al-
together 26 officers were placed on the reserve list,
including 4 lientenant generals, 4 major generals, 4 colo-
nels, 1 lieutenant colonel, 5 majors, 6 captains and 2
first lieutenants. These officers were not, as far as is
known, directly connected with the incident, but they were
retired partly for disciplinary reasons, in order that all
officers of the Army may feel a sense of responsibility for
the actions of the men under them, and partly as a re-
straint on the younger officers and privates, who, it is
hoped, will in the future hesitate to take any action which
will bring down upon their superior officers a punishment
which they do not deserve. In the present case, the dis-
ciplinary action taken affected twelve outstanding, high-
ranking officers with excellent prospects and of great
present and prospective value to the Army, thus indicating
clearly to the young officers the harm which an ill-con-
sidered act of theirs can do to their service.
In addition to the above, 6 full generals have been
placed on the reserve list. These included 4 members of
the Supreme Military Council, the Minister for War and
the Chief Aide-de-Camp to the Emperor, all of whom assumed
responsibility

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8 -
responsibility for the outbreak of the insurgent troops and
retired voluntarily. The fact that their resignations were
accepted, however, indicates the determination of the high-
est authorities to compel everyone in the chain of responsi-
bility, from the lowest to the highest, to bear punishment
for the misdeeds of subordinates, and thus to inculcate
a better sense of discipline in the Army.
As yet, as far as the Embassy is aware, no concrete
steps have been taken to change the ideological composition
of the Army. It is known that the Army authorities are at
present conducting investigations, with a view to determining
the identity of and weeding out all officers and men advo-
cating direct-action methods. It is not known as yet if any
of the direct-actionists (except, of course, those who parti-
cipated in the insurrection of February 26 and who are now
undergoing court martial) have been identified and forced
out of the Army, but it is believed that some action along
this line will be taken in the near future. In the meantime,
it is known, the civil authorities have been investigating and
arresting the civilian instigators of the young officers of
the Army. It is rumored that already 300 civilians have
been arrested and are undergoing examination on this charge,
and that the martial law is being continued beyond the time
originally given as the probable termination in order to
provide the authorities with every facility for apprehending
the civilian instigators.
There seems to be little doubt that, as a result of the
incident of February 26, the moderate elements in the Army
have obtained control of that organization and are endeavoring
to

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.99)
- 9 -
to eliminate the influences which have brought about
the incidents of recent years. This rise of the moderate
element does not imply that the Army has less influence
than previously in the councils of state - in fact, it
probably has more - or that it is less determined than
previously in regard to its policy on the Asiatio con-
tinent. The change merely indicates that the Army as a
whole has decided to eliminate the young hot-heads who
have been bringing the Army into disrepute by their
direct-action methods . It is too early to attempt to
predict the effect of the suppression of the hot-heads
on the Army's actions in China, but it would seem reason-
able to expect that a good dose of discipline, if adminis-
tered to the Army both at home and on the continent, would
tend to prevent many of the incidents on the Asiatic
mainland which have in the past threatened to involve Japan
in war with other countries. Unfortunately, there are
no indications yet of this tendency, incidents on the main-
land having been unusually frequent during the past month.
This may be explained by a current rumor, to the effect
that the more radical element in the Army is dissatisfied
with the control of the Army by the moderate element,
as represented by General Terauchi and the men whom he is
gradually placing in positions of influence, and that the
radical element is determined to make more trouble.
The Navy was not involved in the recent incident,
except as a conservative factor which had to be taken into
consideration

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
consideration by the Army, but nevertheless the incident
of February 26 has caused the Navy to ponder deeply and
to take precautionary steps. (It will be remembered that
naval cadets took part in the incident of May 15, 1932.)
Consequently the Navy, taking the February 26 Incident
as a turning point, has embarked on a polioy of reform-
ation and expansion of activities. One of the first
. steps was to place 3 full admirals, 7 vice admirals and
6 rear admirals on the reserve list, as of Maroh 30, 1936.
This, it is believed, was done partly in order to rid the
Navy of all elements creating internal dissension, and
partly because of personal reasons of Admiral Nagano, the
Minister for the Navy, as he undoubtedly desired to eli-
minate those higher officers whom he felt would oppose
his policies. Transfers have also been made to the General
Staff of two officers who are reported to be trouble-makers,
Vice Admiral Kobayashi and Rear Admiral Mazaki, the latter
a younger brother of General Mazaki and an alleged sharer
of the views of the General. It is presumed that their
transfers to the General Staff were brought about as a pre-
liminary to their retirement when the next shift of officers
is made in the autumn.
As the next step, the Navy proposes to create a new
naval organ or council for the purpose of drawing up a new
naval defense policy, of suggesting structural reforms in the
organization of the Navy, and of compiling recommendations,
to be submitted to the Government, of general reform measures
of interest to the Navy. The organ is to be called the
Navy Organization Investigation Council" and it is reported
that

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.99)
- 11 -
that Vice Admiral Hasegawa, the Vice Minister for the
Navy, is to be chairman. One of its duties will be the
consideration of methods of eliminating unnecessary ex-
pense, of promoting efficiency and of harmonizing the
execution of naval policies with the national budget.
It is reported that the new defense polioy which
the new naval organ will compile will be that of "home
defense combined with an advance southward", as well as
hegemony of the sea and air on the Western Pacific from
the Equator on the south to the l8oth meridian on the east.
The Embassy will endeavor to obtain more information in
regard to the activities of the new naval orgen and will
report at a later date, giving particular attention to the
so-called "new defense policy" and the southward advance.
Economic
As was reported in a previous despatch, the intention
of the new Government is to proceed slowly in regard to
economic reforms, in order that the economic structure
may not be endangered by unduly hasty changes. As yet,
therefore, little has been done except to take the step
of lowering the interest rates. On April 6 the Bank of
Japan, followed by the special, or semi-official banks,
lowered the discount rate on commercial bills and the in-
terest rates on loans and overdrafts by an average of about
.37 per cent per annum. According to the Minister for Finance,
this was done as a first step toward the general lowering
of interest rates in Japan, which the Minister has advocated
since his appointment. According to the Governor of the
Bank of Japan, another reason for the move was to prevent
the

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.97)
-12-
the selling of Government bonds - in other words, to
make the interest rates on bonds more attractive than
those on bank deposits and thus to create a market for
future issues of national bonds. On April 18 another
move toward lower interest rates was made, consisting
of the conversion of a block of 5% Government bonds into
3.5% bonds. The policy of converting the existing Govern-
ment bonds into lower interest bearing bonds will be
carried out gradually.
The Commercial Attaché of the Embassy had an interesting
conversation on April 9 with the Minister and Vice Minister
for Finance, in the course of which the Minister for Fi-
nance explained his policies in regard to Government fi-
nance, taxation, exchange rates and interest rates. A
memorandum of this conversation is enclosed.
Respectfully yours,
Roo
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosure: Copy of Memorandum of Conversation of
April 9, 1936.
800.
ERD:r
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
1"
n
Moscow.
Carbon Copims

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatoh No.
178& of Apri1 16, 1936 from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
MEMORANDUM.
On Thursday April 9th I had the pleasure of an inter-
view with Dr. Eiichi Baba, Minister of Finance. I was re-
ceived by Dr. Baba and the Vice-Minister of Finance, Mr.
Kawagoe, at the Minister's official residence. After
explaining to Dr. Baba that I was shortly proceeding to
the United States and would therefore appreciate a state-
ment from him regarding the financial policy of the present
administration, I asked the following questions:
1. What is the general financial policy of the present
Government?
In reply Dr. Baba stated that the Government's policy was
outlined in his first statement to the press at the time of
the formation of the present Cabinet, namely: low interest
rates, increased Government expenditures if found necessary,
continuation of deficit bond issues for the present and
some form of increased taxation. Continuing he said that
the first step towards putting this policy into actual
operation was taken on March l9th for the past fiscal year.
The next step was on April 6th when the Bank of Japan an-
nounced the lowering of its discount and loan rates ef-
fective the 7th. City banks have decided to adopt the
same procedure as of April the loth.
The

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
The next move towards lower interest rates, stated
Dr. Baba, was the announcement on April 8th of the conversion
of ¥373,000,000 worth of 5% national bonds into new 3.5%
bonds. It is intended to continue this conversion poliey
but on a decidedly gradual scale.
Regarding taxation the Minister of Finance pointed
out that the preceding Government relied on an estimated
natural increase in revenue with which to reduce the
deficit bond issues. The present Administration, how-
ever, feels that existing conditions in Japan make it
necessary to somewhat expand Government expenditures,
which step will necessitate additional revenue. This
must be obtained from increased taxes. Furthermore,
there is a definite need for the readjustment of both
the national and prefectural taxation systems in Japan.
This matter is now being given considerable thought but
no definite plan has yet been adopted and none will be
placed in operation until the beginning of the fiscal
year 1937-38. Under the circumstances, it will not be
possible to reduce deficit bonds within the next two
or three years, although this will be done as soon as
possible.
The next question was, What is the present Administra-
tion's policy regarding the foreign exchange value of the
Yen? In reply Dr. Baba stated that the Yen was at present
fairly well stabilized, rates having maintained practically
the

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
the same level for the past two years. This situation
was satisfactory and no articifial means will be applied
to cause fluctuation in currency values. He pointed
out that it was his earnest desire to avoid unhealthy
inflation.
Replying to my question as to whether the interest
rate on postal savings accounts will be lowered, Dr. Baba
said that this was a very important matter inasmuch as at
present there are around 46 million small depositors.
It is hoped that no revision of the present rate will be
found necessary. The effect of the recently revised
interest rates by the Bank of Japan and city banks will
be very carefully studied. If future market rates reach
decidedly lower levels it may be found necessary to lower
the postal savings rate in order to guard against heavy
diversion of funds into that account.
I then asked Dr. Baba whether he had any plans formu-
lated for the conversion or redemption of high interest
bearing foreign currency bonds such as the 6-1/2% Dollar
issue. He replied that so far he had given very little
thought to Japan's foreign loan obligations. If curcum-
stances develop which warrant any change in the present
status of these bonds the matter will then naturally be
given serious consideration.
From this point our conversation became somewhat
general. I emphasized the importance to the United States
of her trade with Japan and pointed out to Dr, Baba that
during recent years America was taking considerably more
sundry

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
sundry goods from Japan. I explained that this fact was
largely responsible for the criticism and opposition which
Japanese manufactured goods were receiving from some quarters
in the United States. I expressed the hope that the Japa-
nese people will not allow trade relations between Japan
and America to become endangered by this opposition which
prevails in the United States to such a small percentage
of the total trade. Dr. Baba stated that the same condi-
tions exist in Japan regarding certain Amerioan and other
foreign products. He remembered seeing several press re-
ports attacking foreign goods and demanding higher tariff
rates regardless of the trade position as a whole. In this
connection Dr. Baba was quite emphatic and impressive in
speaking of a possible serious future conflict of interest
between the United States and Japan. He said that he, as
well as most all of the Japanese people, had never even
entertained an idea of any trouble between the United States
and Japan. He requested that I convey such a message
to the American people and whenever I have the opportunity
of speaking to American business men to emphasize the frienaly
feeling which exists in Japan for my country regardless
of the various criticisms which appear from time to time
in the local press. I assured Dr. Baba that I personally
very strongly reciprocated his feelings and felt that the
great majority of Americans neither anticipated nor desired
any trouble with Japan.
In conclusion Dr. Baba expressed the opinion that the
world

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
world depression was caused solely by over-production and
a decline of purchasing power. He has followed very closely
the fforts made by the American Government to increase
the purchasing power in that country and stated that the
policy of the present Administration in Japan is to increase
the purchasing power of the mass of the people in this
country.
Dr. Baba understands a good deal of English but does
not use it in his conversation and it was, therefore,
necessary for our interview to be conducted through an inter-
preter.
On the same afternoon I also called on Mr. Kurusu, former
Chief of the Commercial Bureau of the Foreign Office but
recently appointed Ambassador to Belgium. Mr. Kurusu is
sailing from Yokohama on May l4th by the "Asama Maru" and
expects to be in Washington on or about June 7th. While
he will have no authority to negotiate with our State
Department on matters pertaining to the oil and tertilo
controversies and the proposed Automobile Control Law, he
told me that he would like to discuss these questions in-
formally with Mr. Sayre or Mr. Phillips and asked if I could
arrange to be in Washington at that time. I told him I would
endeavor to arrange my itinerary so that I can meet him in
Washington.
(Signed) F.S. Williams .

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
LONDON, Apri1 27, 1936.
No. 2142
SUEJECT:
Press Comment on Japan.
Vea
No
For Distribur ion-Cheek
894.0
AC/C
Grade
LI USA
For
894.00/646
RECORDING DESK
FILE - WHB
OF STATE
MAY1
1935
Divisior
FAR EASTERN
MAY 7-1936
The
rable
The Secretary of State,
Washin ton.
623
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to despatch No. 1718 of
FILED
March 6, 1936, from the Embassy at Tokyo entitled "An Analysi
12 1936
of the Causes Leading to the Incident of February 26, 1936",
anc to transmit herewith an article which appeared in today!
1/
TIvs entitled "The Dualism of Japan", together with an
21
editorial in the same issue entitled "The Cloud in the Far East".
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
Ray Atherton,
Counselor of Embassy.
Enclosures:
1. Article from the TIvs or april 27, 1936.
2. Editorial from "
1"
11
n
WWb/MVB

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.99)
to despatch Na142or.APB.27.1933
m. .y at London, England.
PAPER:
THE TMES
NUMBER:
CITY:
LONDON
DATE: APR 27 1936
15
THE DUALISM OF
JAPAN
NEW BUILDING ON
OLD DOCTRINE
A RISKY EXPERIMENT
From Our Tokyo Correspondent
The revolt of young officers of the Japanese
Army was followed by a political crisis in which
senior officers prevented the formation of a
Government until the Prime Minister had
accepted their demands. Rebellion by juniors
and dictation to a Cabinet by seniors are both
remote from English ideas of the Army's place
in a constitutional State. One should remember
the dualism—the mingling of the medieval and
the modern in a social framework half new, half
old—which gives Japanese life its peculiar
character. The "Showa Restoration," which
inspired the young officers, and the "national
polity" issue (discussed in The Times of
September 10), which has the support of the
Army as a whole, are woven of threads drawn
from Communism and Fascism and also from
the feudal days, still so near, when Japan was
governed by a war lord in the name of a sacred
and secluded Emperor.
In its broadest aspect the movement of the
fighting services is a struggle for freedom from
controi by politicians. At the extreme left, or
right—at the point where Communism and
Fascism meet—this movement hardened into a
revolutionary conspiracy of young officers who
have been captivated by the doctrines of Marx
and Mussolini dressed in the clothes of Imperial
Japan. Their aim is a totalitarian Socialist
State under a government which is naively
represented as a restoration of Imperial rule but
would, in fact, be a revival of feudal military
government with the Army taking the place of
the Shogunate. The February revolt, like that
of May, 1932, was the work of this small revo-
lutionary wing. Their gospel is set forth in a
book by Ikki Kita called " A Reconstruction
Programme for Japan." Kita, with 150 others,
was arrested during the February rising. His
book is forbidden (except in expurgated form),
but mimeographed copies have been circulated
among Army officers. He preaches a " revo-
lutionary Empire reorganized on the principles
of State Socialism," and outlines a technique by
which the Army is to effect the revolution in
three stages: a military coup d'Etat, suspension
of the Constitution, restoration of Imperial rule.
The February affair was the second of two
attempts the young officers have made to carry
out the first stage of Kita's programme. By the
murder of statesmen and the creation of dis-
order they hoped to create a situation in which
an Imperial mandate would be given to the
Army.
THE EMPEROR'S POSITION
The Court-martial which tried Lieutenant-
Colonel Aizawa for the murder of Lieutenant-
General Nagata was converted into a platform

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.99)
Programme for Japan." Kita, with 150 others.
was arrested during the February rising. His
book is forbidden (except in expurgated form).
but mimeographed copies have been circulated
among Army officers. He preaches a "revo-
lutionary Empire reorganized on the principles
of State Socialism," and outlines a technique by
which the Army is to effect the revolution in
three stages: a military coup d"Etat, suspension
of the Constitution, restoration of Imperial rule.
The February affair was the second of two
attempts the young officers have made to carry
out the first stage of Kita's programme. By the
murder of stateemen and the creatien of dis-
order they hoped to creale a situation in whlak
an Imperial masdate would be siven to the
Army.
THE EMPEROR'S POSITION
The Court-martial which tried Lieutenant-
Colonel Aizawa for the murder of Lieutenant-
General Nagata was converted into a platform
for the propaganda of the revolutionary wing.
"The spirit of the Showa Restoration is about
to be manifested through Aizawa," declared
Lieutenant-Colonel Mitsui, Aizawa's defender.
When Aizawa was asked to explain what he
meant by the Showa Restoration he answered:
The Emperor is the incarnation of the God who reigns
over the universe. The world is deadlocked because of
capitalism, communism, anarchism, and atheism. The
personal rule of the Emperor is firmly established in
Japan and must continue. Democracy is all wrong.
The present times are marked by arrogation of political
powers. A Prime Minister has propounded the institu-
lional theory of the Emperor. School teachers say that
their salaries are paid by the people, not by the State—a
least my child is so taught. The return of political and
financial power to the Emperor would be the Showa
Restoration.
Mitsui threw a curious light on the aims of the
group when he declared that Lieutenant-General
Nagata had one of the best brains in the Army,
but he believed in a controlled economy and
thought capitalists were needed to operate it.
The Showa Restoration demands that national
economy should come under the direct rule of
the Emperor. It need not be said that personal
rule by an autocrat is something Japan has never
known and is foreign to all her ideas of the
Emperor's unique position. The Emperor is
held to be a divinely descended sovereign who
governs the country through his servants but is
not responsible for their actions. When Aizawa
proposes the return of political and financial
power to the Emperor he is simply demanding
that power should be taken away from those
who at present exercise it.
Advocates of the Showa Restoration assert
that the Meiji Restoration (1868), which every
Japanese reveres as the most glorious episode
in the nation's history, has been turned from
its true path by the introduction of capitalism
and political democracy. The remedy for the
present evils therefore begins with the removal
of the capitalists and the politicians, their
"docile clerks," from place and power, and the
restoration of direct Imperial rule. Only a
small revolutionary group understands by that
the Imperialist-Socialist State of Kita's vision.
The great majority are content to demand
"clarification of the national polity."
FUNDS FOR THE SERVICES
In the " Minobe affair" the practical end
pursued under that abstract slogan was the
Army's right to be free of political control in
matters affecting defence. The struggle seemed
to have been won. The position now established
is this: The supreme command belongs to the
Emperor, who exercises it through the General
Staff. The supreme command determines the
size of the Army and Navy. The function
of the Cabinet is to provide the funds
required and decide how they are to be raised.
"The duty and power of ihe Services is to
decide what they want," writes Mr. T. Iwabuchi,
" while that of the Government is to decide how
to get it." But the controversy did not end
there, and Mr. Hirota has again pledged the
Government to clarify the national polity. So
far as he is concerned this will mean the
elimination of certain alien elements from
Japanese education. Others have more con-
crete ideas. "Retired Naval Officer," writing
in Contemporary Japan last December, ex-
plained that "clarification of the national
polity " meant a new kind of government. He
recounted the thrice-told tale of the London
Naval Treaty, signed by a party Prime Minister
(afterwards assassinated) with the support of the
senior statesman against the advice of the Naval
General Staff. That event, he declared, had
convinced the younger officers that " the future
of the Empire was doomed so long as Cabinets
based on political parties and statesmen of this
type were in control."
When he attempts to define a new system the
retired naval officer navigates walers strange to
English political thought. Foreign States, he says.

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.99)
When Aizawa was ask
meam by the Showe Restoration be answereu.
The Bamperor is the incarnation of the God who relens
ever the waiverse. The world is deadlocked because of
persomal rule of the Emperor is firmly established la
Japan and must continue. Democracy is all wrong.
The present times are marked by arrogation of polikical
powers. A Prime Minister has propounded the imstitu-
their salaries are paid by the people, not by the Beate
Smancial power to the Emperor would be the Shews
Restoration.
Mitsui threw a curious light on the aime of the
group when he declared that Lieutenant-Gemeral
Nagata had one of the best brains in the Armay,
but he believed in a controlled ecomemy and
thought capitalists were needed to operats it.
The Showa Restoration demands that matiomal
economy should come under the direct rule of
the Emperor. It need not be said that persomal
rule by an autocrat is something Japan has never
known and is foreign to all her ideas of the
Emperor's unique position. The Emperor ls
held to be a divinely descended sovereign who
governs the country through his servants but is
not responsible for their actions. When Aizawa
proposes the return of political and financial
power to the Emperor he is simply demanding
that power should be taken away from those
who at present exercise it.
Advocates of the Showa Restoration asmert
that the Meiji Restoration (1868), which every
Japanese reveres as the most glorious episode
in the nation's history, has been turned from
its true path by the introduction of capitalism
and political democracy. The remedy for the
present evils therefore begins with the removal
of the capitalists and the politicians, their
"docile clerks," from place and power, and the
restoration of direct Imperial rule. Only 
small revolutionary group understands by that
the Imperialist-Socialist State of Kita's vision.
The great majority are content to demand
"clarification of the national polity."
FUNDS FOR THE SERVICES
In the "Minobe affair" the practical end
pursued under that abstract slogan was the
Army's right to be free of political control in
matters affecting defence. The struggle seemed
to have been won. The position now established
is this: The supreme command belongs to the
Emperor, who exercises it through the General
Staff. The supreme command determines the
size of the Army and Navy. The function
of the Cabinet is to provide the funds
required and decide how they are to be raised.
"The duty and power of the Services is to
decide what they want," writes Mr. T. Iwabuchi,
"while that of the Government is to decide how
to get it." But the controversy did not end
there, and Mr. Hirota has again pledged the
Government to clarify the national polity. So
far as he is concerned this will mean the
elimination of certain alien elements from
Japanese education. Others have more con-
crete ideas. "Retired Naval Officer," writing
in Contemporary Japan last December, ex-
plained that "clarification of the national
polity " meant a new kind of government. He
recounted the thrice-told tale of the London
Naval Treaty, signed by a party Prime Minister
(afterwards assassinated) with the support of the
senior statesman against the advice of the Naval
General Staff. That event, he declared, had
convinced the younger officers that "the future
of the Empire was doomed so long as Cabinets
based on political parties and statesmen of this
type were in control."
When he attempts to define a new system the
retired naval officer navigates waters strange to
English political thought. Foreign States, he says,
may be juridical bodies, but Japan "is a sort of
family bound together by the affectionate ties
between parents and children." The Japanese
Constitution, unlike the English, which circum-
scribes the King's rights, was drawn up" to govern
his Majesty's personal administration." A Japan-
ese " regards the Emperor as a descendant from

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.98)
16
the Sun Goddess, who was a divinity in
human form." Therefore, what Japan
wantsi" perfect administration under the
personal rule of the Emperor." The mysti-
ca! theory of the Throne is deeply rooted in
P  271936
Japanese thought, but for all its antiquity
CITY:
the doctrine in its present form bears the
marks of the modern age. The Emperor-
worship of the Japanese nationalists is
closely related to the State-worship of
ER:
Hegelianism, from which the doctrines of
N.
PAPR:
Mar have sprung.
It is when they consider the new inter-
national situation which the advance in
Manchuria has created that the revolution-
ary and the conservative elements in the
Army meet. By requiring armaments
commensurate with the stake, which, as
M
the Army sees it, is Japan's future, that
first
situation imposes on the whole movement
nati
a practical direction. The latest Army
pamphlet, issued by the War Office on
inau
March 10, showed how the military re-
a di
quirements of the continental policy have
held
upset the laisser-faire finance, of which
of t
Mr. Takahashi was the exponent. Japan's
of t
first line of defence is now the Soviet-
siast
Manchukuo frontier. Across that line lies
econ
the Far Eastern Red Army, but little in-
will
ferior in strength to Japan's entire peace-
Dem
time organization. Concrete blockhouses
elect
(totchitka) at strategic points provide the
M
Russian forces with defences in depth or
Amc
with bases for attack, according to the side
unity
of the frontier from which they are re-
thou
the
garded. At Vladivostok the Russians
Now
maintain a number of fast heavy bombers
of th
capable of shelling Tokyo and returning
were
to their base, and a flotilla of small
existe
submarines.
audic
faced
AMERICA AND RUSSIA
storm
them
The Manchurian advance, intended to
probl
furnish Japan with a strategic life-line, has
arm
relief
thus had consequences which the public, at
of p
least, did not fully foresee. But the die
equal
econd
has been cast. The Continental policy
man-
needs a naval screen. Japan, having left
The
the League of Nations in pursuance of her
colla
debau
East Asian policy, has been obliged by the
expre
logic of the same policy to secede from
and
naval agreements. Her national security,
was
now that it has been linked to Manchu-
prove
kuo's, requires a fleet equal to America's
Th
and an army and air force able to cope
ence
with Russia in the Far East. So great an
good
effort has never before been demanded
buyi
from the country in time of peace, and Mr.
pose
Takahashi's orthodox finance way deemed
and
inadequate. The military leaders also
man
point out that defence is no longer a
shall
matter of providing an army and navy;
In
it involves all the industrial and economic
cost
powers of the nation. That Japan con-
fronts an emergency from which only
futur
where
$3,00
Imperialist-Socialism can rescue her is the
the p
opening proposition of Kita's book.
$35.0
The emergency is created by the
565.0
need of finding for the army and
Build
it mc
navy revenues greater than the present
condi
system of taxation and, as some think,
insura
the capitalist economy-can provide.
defici
To those who suggest that the emer-
plana
gency is unreal, or at least self-created,
ihree
the nationalists reply by pointing to
crises
The
a worid where markets are being mono-
nowe
polized and trade barriers multiplied, and
level.
declare that the moment has come when
a mo
Japan must ensure her future by consoli-
were
dating her position in East Asia.
for
more
WHITHER DRIFTING?
caten
i m
In the next two years, perhaps, it will be
incid
clear whither Japan's new course is taking
helic
the
her. One should not forget the force of
character and the social stability which
Japan has displayed in her unexampled
career. The future of donestic peace will
depend largely on the manner in which the
ringleaders of the February conspiracy
are dealt with. The higher command has
In
announced that it is determined to restore
discipline and unity, and a special Court-
martial created by Imperial order has full

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.98)
matter of providing an army and navy:
In
it involves all the industrial and economic
cost
powers of the nation. That Japan con-
futun
fronts an emergency from which only
when
$3,00
Imperialist-Socialism can rescue her is the
the p
opening proposition of Kita's book.
$35,0
The emergency is created by the
$65.0
need of finding for the army and
Build
navy revenues greater than the present
it me
the capitalist economy—can provide.
system of taxation and, as some think,
condi
insurt
defici
To those who suggest that the emer-
plann
gency is unreal, or at least self-created,
three
the nationalists reply by pointing to
a world where markets are being mono-
crises
The
and trade barriers muitiplied, and
declares that the mement has come when
Japan must ensure her future by consoli-
dating her position in East Asia.
WHITHER DRIFTING?
caton
is m
In the next two years, perhaps, it will be
incid
clear whither Japan's new course is taking
belic
her. One should not forget the force of
the
character and the social stability which
Japan has displayed in her unexampled
career. The future of domestic peace will
depend largely on the manner in which the
ringleaders of the February conspiracy
are dealt with. The higher command has
announced that it is determined to restore
discipline and unity, and a special Court-
martial created by Imperial order has full
powers.
π
Though party government has been
offer
swept away like a sand castle the dis-
day
appearance of so new a thing cannot be
called revolutionary. A bureaucratic
the
Cabinet under a non-party official is no
since
novelty; up till 20 years ago Japan had
Her
known no other kind of Cabinet. For a
Affa
decade between the Washington Confer-
fessi
ence and the Manchurian affair the liberal
pelle
groups held control. The Manchurian
advance and the continental policy have
been
given the soldiers predominance. Yet.
pub
despite occasional outbursts of violence
have
the Japanese have a long tradition of com-
then
promise.
cess
Mr. Hirota embodies that tradition. His
Man
continental policy is economic rather
Ker
than territorial, and h: has proclaimed
of R
his confidence that both with Russia and
ban
China its ends can be attained by diplo-
the
matic means. But unless he has the
port
support of the Army he cannot succeed,
T
and before the old confidence in Japan's
sion
stability is restored the world will have to
repe
be shown that the Army is able and willing
view
to control all its members, that it is co-
shou
operating without mental reservations in
Min
Mr. Hirota's pclicy, and that its require-
worl
ments (with those of the Navy) can be
at th
met without overstraining the economic
and
structure. Nothing can alter the fact that
mitte
the Japanese millions must increasingly
Chur
depend on foreign trade for their food and
In
work. The diversion into continental
men
adventures of the resources needed to
State
develop their productive power will be a
the
risky experiment.
were
struc
fruit
AIRMAN'S BODY FOUND ON
the
CROSS FELL
his
that
had
MISSING SINCE TUESDAY
tiona
the
The body of Archibald James Moffat, aged
about 21, who took off from West Malling,
Kent, last Tuesday on a flight to Scotland and
PC
disappeared, was brought down on Saturday
from the top of Cross Fell, the highest peak in
the Pennines. The hody was found by a
prospecting engineer, Sapper Smith, R.E., who.
ALI
with others, was workin" on Cross Fell. The
aeroplane had crashed 6oft. below the summit.
mow. A party of x police officers and a
The crest of the mountain is covered with
Wi
number of shepherds left in the dark on Friday
of the
evening to try to hrin: the body down. The
Force
weather was stormy and they succeeded in
Satur
carrying the body for only a mile when they
himse
had to abandon it for the night on the mountain.
or pe
They resumed their task on Saturday morning
Sup
and carried the body for two miles until they
were met by a horse-drawn sledge. on which
night
stable
it was taken to the village of Kirkland. An
inquest will be held to-day.
accompanied by Mr. G. H. Stockdale, of Littie
said Mr. Moffat borrowed the machine from
Mr. J. K. I awrence, of Burntwood, Sevenoaks,
Kent. When Mr. Moffat took off he was
Trench, Tonbridge, who flew with him as far
aerodrome that he intended to fly across the
as Doncaster.
An official of the West Malling Acrodrome
Mr. Moffat had said at the
Ilunt
just
my
one
Selby
sense
added
The
wand
Border to Scotland.
the
was.
M
FAKED FRUIT TREES
Depa
LouIs GoNNFtLA. of Kiln Road. Thundersley,
woul
Saturday, sentenced to nine months' imprison-
ment with hard labour on nine charges of obtain-
Essex, an Italian, was at Southend Sessions on
was
repo
Hu

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.98)
ringleaders of the February conspiracy
are dealt with. The higher command has
announced that it is determined to restore
discipline and unity, and a special Court-
martial created by Imperial order has full
powers.
Though party government has been
offes
swept away like a sand castle the dis-
day
appearance of so new a thing cannot be
the
called revolutionary. A bureaucratic
Cabinet under a non-party offcial is mo
sinc
novelty; up till 20 years ago Japan had
Hen
known no other kind of Cabinet. For a
Affa
decade between the Washington Confer-
lossi
ence and the Manchurian affair the liberal
pelle
groups held control. The Manchurian
beer
advance and the continental policy have
given the soldiers predominance. Yet,
pub
despite occasional outbursts of violence
have
the Japanese have a long tradition of com-
thea
promise.
cess
Mr. Hirota embodies that tradition. His
Mas
continental policy is economic rather
Ker
than territorial, and h: has proclaimed
of R
his confidence that both with Russia and
ban
China its ends can be attained by diplo-
the
matic means. But unless he has the
port
support of the Army he cannot succeed,
T
and before the old confidence in Japan's
sion
stability is restored the world will have to
repe
be shown that the Army is able and willing
view
to control all its members, that it is co-
shou
operating without mental reservations in
Min
Mr. Hirota's policy, and that its require-
worl
ments (with those of the Navy) can be
at th
met without overstraining the economic
and
structure. Nothing can alter the fact that
mitt
the Japanese millions must increasingly
Chul
depend on foreign trade for their food and
In
ment
work. The diversion into continental
adventures of the resources needed to
State
develop their productive power will be a
the
risky experiment.
were
strud
fruit
AIRMAN'S BODY FOUND ON
the
CROSS FELL
his
that
had
MISSING SINCE TUESDAY
tiong
the
The body of Archibaid James Moffat, aged
about 21, who took off from West Malling.
Kent, last Tuesday on a flight to Scotland and
PC
disappeared, was brought down on Saturday
from the top of Cross Fell, the highest peak in
the Pennines. The body was found by a
prospecting engineer, Sipper Smith. R.E., who,
ALL
with others, was workin" on Cross Fell. The
aeroplane had crashed 6oft. helow the summit.
The crest of the mountain is covered with
mow. A party of x pohce officers and a
number of shepherds lelt in the dark on Friday
of the
evening to try to brin: the body down. The
Force
weather was stormy and they succeeded in
Satur
carrying the body for only a mile when they
himse
had to abandon it for the night on the mountain.
or pe
They resumed their task on Saturday morning
Sup
and carried the body for two miles until they
stable
were met by a horse-drawn sledge, on which
night
it was taken to the village of Kirkland. An
The
inquest will be held to-day.
Ilunt
An official of the West Malling Acrodrome
just
said Mr. Motfat borrowed the machine from
my
Mr. J. K. I awrence, of Burntwood, Sevenoaks,
one
Kent. When Mr. Moffat took off he was
added
accompanied by Mr. G. H. Stockdale, of Little
Selby
Trench, Tonbridge. who flew with him as far
sense
as Doncaster. Mr. Moffat had said at the
wand
aerodrome that he intended to fly across the
the
Border to Scotland.
was.
M
FAKED FRUIT TREES
Depa
LoUIs GoNNFHTA. of Kiln Road, Thundersley,
woul
Hu
Essex, an Italian, was at Southend Sessions on
was
Saturday, sentenced to nine months' imprison-
repor
ment with hard labour on nine charges of obtain-
ing money by false pretences. It was stated that
he sold as truit trees branches of wild birch
Mi
trees. Some of the branches had the ends split
Scho
and fibrous matter was inserted to resemble roots.
mistr
What were supposed to be rose trees were briars
Girls
without roots.
retiri

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.99)
2142APR271033
PAPER:
THE TILES
NUMBER:
APR 27 1936
CITY:
LONDON
DATE:
The Cloud in the Far East
Incidents continue to multiply on the frontier
separating the Japanese vassal State of Man-
chukuo from the territory of the Soviet and of
the Russian-controlled State of Outer Mongolia.
The joint frontier Commissions which were to
investigate the responsibility for these incidents
and to prevent their recurrence have not yet
been established, though both Governments
proclaim their desire for a peacsful settle-
ment. M. VoRosLor, the Soviet Com-
missar for Defence, speaking at a dinner
given by the Japaness Embassy in
Moscow, agreed with the Ambassador that
there was no dispute between the two
countries which could not be settled by peaceful
means, and recalled the Soviet Government's
desire for the conclusion of a pact of non-
aggression. If, he added, Japan was really
anxious for peace she would put a stop to the
activities of irresponsible elements who provoke
bloody frontier clashes. This was very plain
speaking for such an occasion. The warning
implicit in it recalls the firmness with which,
a few weeks ago, M. STALiN emphasized the
Russian determination to maintain the " inde-
"pendence " of Outer Mongolia, meaning
apparently thereby its dependence upon the
Soviet Government. Mr. AritA, the new
Japanese Foreign Minister, discussing Japanese
policy with foreign Press correspondents on
Saturday, admitted the deterioration in Russo-
Japanese relations, but was confident that all
the differences could be settled by diplomatic
means. Japan, he declared, did not think of
taking action on account of frontier incidents
"unless others launch aggression upon us."
There need be no doubt that both the Govern-
ments really desire peace, at any rate for the
time being, and equally no doubt that their
differences are susceptible of diplomatic adjust-
ment. Where doubt arises is over the ability of
the Japanese Government and Foreign Office to
prevent their hand from being forced by
elements over which they have little control.
There have been occasions, and there may well
be more, upon which they have found themselves
committed by military action to courses not easy
to reconcile with their ostensible policy. An
attempt to bring about greater harmony between
the views of the Foreign Office and the
Army is now being made by the institu-
tion of regular informal conferences upon
foreign affairs between the Foreign
Minister and the two Defence Ministers, though
it is generally assumed that the "unification
"of policy" sought by this means will reflect
the military rather than the diplomatic view.
Relations between the Army and the Govern-
ment even in normal times are very different
in Japan from what they are in Western
countries. The present time moreover is far
from normal, as the world was reminded by the
mutinous outbreak of two months ago and the
political crisis which followed it. There can be
no real stability in Japanese policy until a more
permanent equilibrium is reached between the
elements now competing for control. Our Tokyo
Correspondent in an illuminating article to-day
explains the struggle of the fighting services for
freedom from control by politicians and the
revortionary movement among the young
officers in which that struggle finds its most
drastic expression. The ringleaders in this
movement, "captivated by the doctrines of
"Marx and Mussolini dressed in the clothes of
"Imperial Japan," aim at getting rid of
capitalists and politicians and setting up a
tomlitarian Sainlice Stata undes a faudal :

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.98)
anxious for yor or r
activities of irreeponelble slements who provoks
bloody frontier clasbes. This was vary plair
speaking for such as occasion. The warming
implioit hs it recalls the firmness with which
a fow weoks ago, M. STaLmm emphasleod the
Russlam determlmation to maintain the " inde
"pendeace" of Outer Moagolia, meaning
apparently theseby its dependencs upem the
Soviet Governement. Ma. AnrtA, the new
Japanese Peretga Minister, discussing Japaneed
policy with foreign Press correspondents os
Saturday, admitted the deterioration in Russo-
Japanese relations, but was confident that al
the differences could be settled by diplomatic
means. Japan, he declared, did not think of
taking action on account of frontier incidents
"unless others launch aggression upon us."
There need be no doubt that both the Govern-
ments really desire peace, at any rate for the
time being, and oqually no doubt that their
differences are susceptible of diplomatic adjust-
ment. Where doubt arises is over the ability of
the Japanese Government and Foreign Office to
prevent their hand from being forced by
elements over which they have little control.
There have been occasions, and there may well
be more, upon which they have found themselves
committed by military action to courses not easy
to reconcile with their ostensible policy. An
attempt to bring about greater harmony between
the views of the Foreign Office and the
Army is now being made by the institu-
tion of regular informal conferences upon
foreign affairs between the Foreign
Minister and the two Defence Ministers, though
it is generally assumed that the "unification
"of policy" sought by this means will reflect
the military rather than the diplomatic view.
Relations between the Army and the Govern-
ment even in normal times are very diffesent
in Japan from what they are in Wetn
countries. The present time moreover is far
from normal, as the world was reminded by the
mutinous outbreak of two months ago and the
political crisis which followed it. There can be
no real stability in Japanese policy until a more
permanent equilibrium is reached between the
clements now competing for control. Our Tokyo
Correspondent in an illuminating article to-day
explains the struggle of the fighting services for
freedom from control by politicians and the
revolutionary nmovement among the young
officers in which that struggle finds its most
drastic expression. The ringleaders in this
movement, "captivated by the doctrines of
"Marx and Mussolini dressed in the clothes of
"Imperial Japan," aim at getting rid of
capitalists and politicians and setting up a
totalitarian Socialist State under a feudal mili-
tary Government. In this extreme form they do
not seem to have found any widespread support
for their ideas; but it has yet to be shown that
the Army chiefs are able to control the ferment
which led to the February mutiny, and that they
are ready to cooperate with the civilian Govern-
ment in a conciliatory foreign policy.

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
May 25, 1936.
EHD:
Tokyo's No. 1798 of April 30, 1936.
This despatch from Tokyo, prepared by
Mr. Dickover, discusses what is known as
the "southward advance" policy said to be
advocated by one school of expansionists
in Japan. According to the writer, the
advocates of this policy, led by the navy,
consider that the lands to the south of
Japan, presumably the islands of the Pacific,
Netherland East India, Siam, and possibly
the Philippine Islands, offer a more pro-
mising field for a Japanese "advance" than
the Asiatic continent to the north and west.
The writer states that the reasons for
this redirection of Japanese activities
appear to be the desire of the navy to play
a larger part in the expansionist activities
of the nation; the desire of the navy to
assure itself of a supply of petroleum,
presumably in Netherland India; and the
fact that the advance in northwestern Asia
has been checked by the possibility of a
major war with Soviet Russia.
You will probably wish to read the
despatch, as it contains considerable food
for

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
for thought. However, it should be realized
that the so-called "southward advance"
doctrine is largely a product of newspaper
talk based, it may be, on the views of
certain individuals in the navy.
The title of the despatch and some of
the comment might convey the impression
that there is a definitely formulated
policy of aggressive action against
territories to the south of Japan. While
the Japanese Government has unquestionably
given consideration to the possibility of
eventual Japanese dominance over present
European colonies and possessions in the
Orient, it seems highly unlikely that
there is any disposition on the part of the
Government to undertake any aggressive
action toward those territories under
present circumstances.
The chief criticism which one can
make of the despatch is that it conveys a
misleading impression. It develops a
thesis, based largely on hearsay and news-
paper talk, with more assurance than the
facts would warrant.
894.00/647
W1T
WTT/DLY

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.94)
53-1
MAY 28 1936
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
No. 1798.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, April 30, 1936.
JAPANLS "SOUTHWARD ADVANCE" POLICY.
MAYS
Yen
No
894.00
LUSIz
For Distribution-Check
To fi-1a
CF
Grade
In U.S.A.
For
oni
CONFIDENTIAL.
MID
DEPAR
COPIES SENT TO
aym FE (38)
O.N.I. AND M. I.D.
Division of
AH LASTERN AFFAIKS
894.00/647
MAY 1 9 1936
Department of State
Jib
X
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
It has been known for a number of years past that
JUN 2- 1936
there are in Japan two schools of thought in regard to
FILED
the direction of Japan's national expansion. One school,
the "continental school", led by the Japanese Army, ad-
vocates advance on the Asiatic continent, principally to
the west and north, in order to acquire sources of rew
material and markets for manufactured goods in Manchuria,
Mongolia,
F/FG

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.99)
53-2
- 2 -
Mongolia, Siberia and China Proper. The efforts of this
school have resulted in the annexation by Japan of Korea,
the formation of "Manchukuo" and the establishment of the
semi-autonomous governments of North China, but they also
brought about the abortive expeditions into Shantung and
Siberia following the World War. On the whole, however,
this school has been reasonably successful in its attempts
to contribute to the expansion of the Japanese nation and
consequently has held the center of the stage for a number
of years past, thoroughly eclipsing the other school of
thought.
The second school of thought is the "oceanic" or "blue
water" school, which advocates Japanese expansion, not to
the frozen wastes of the north, where it is difficult for
Japanese to live and work, nor to the over-populated country
of Chine, where Japanese cannot compete with the local
labor, but to the south, whence, it is said, the principal
portion of the Japanese racial root stock came many hun-
dreds of years ago and where climatic and labor conditions
favor Japanese expansion. This second school, as is to be
expected, is led by the Japanese Navy, as eny expansionist
program to the south of Japan would inevitably mean that
the primary participant would be the Navy rather than the
Army. (In this connection please see strictly confidential
947.94/20
despatch No. 125 of February 11, 1936, from the Consul General
in Sydney, N.S.W.)
There has been a marked recrudescence of opinion in
recent months favoring the southward expansion theory. A
large

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.98)
533
-3 -
large part of this has consisted merely of newspaper rumors,
but it is believed that the rumors have been inspired by the
younger officers in the Navy who are dissatisfied with the
Navy's place in the shade and wish.to see the Navy take a
more prominent position in the progress of the nation.
These newspaper reports of the Navy's opinions, therefore,
are entitled to a certain amount of consideration, repre-
senting as they do the ideas of a large section of the Navy.
During September, 1935, reports appeared in the Japa-
nese press to the effect that the Navy had begun to advocate
a general southward advance. The reasons for this pro-
posed southward movement were stated as being both defensive
and economic. it was claimed that it would be necessary
for the Japanese Navy to offset the strengthening of Amer-
ican defenses in the Pacific Ocean, as represented by the
establishment of commercial air routes and the rumored
strengthening of the fortifications at Guam, by the ex-
tension of Japanese naval activities to the south. It was
also claimed that it would be desirable for Japan, for
national defense and trade reasons, to endeavor to acquire
further supplies of rice, fish, petroleum, cotton, iron
ores, wool, end rubber in the South Seas, as well as to
provide outlets in that region for excess Japanese popu-
lation.
In the early part of the year several persons, in-
cluding naval officers, are reported to have stated, in
articles in the magazines and in public speeches, that
now that "Manchukuo" is well established, the time had
●
arrived

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.99)
53-4
-4-
arrived for the Japanese to turn their attention south-
ward, in an effort to obtain concessions and increased
trade in the Netherland Indies and the Philippine Islands.
On January 22, 1936, at a luncheon given by business-
men of Osaka, Vice Admiral Takahashi, the Commander-in-
Chief of the Combined Fleet, is said to have stated that:
"Manchukuo is experiencing sound development,
and her economic basis is firmly established. We
should, therefore, turn our attention southward,
and strive for the acquisition of new markets. .
In such a case the cruising radius of the
ships of the Japanese Navy will have to be in-
creased to reach such locations as New Guinea,Bprneo
and the Celebes."
(Note: Admiral Takahashi's speech was never pub-
lished in Japan, as far as the Embassy is aware,
but a summary, which was later claimed to contain
misquotations, was cabled to the United States by
one of the news agencies and was used by Senator
Pittman in his speech before the Senate on Febru-
ary 10, 1936. The above excerpts from Admiral
Takahashi's speech were obtained through indireot
sources by the Naval Attaché of the Embassy.)
On March 21, 1936, the OSAKA MAINICHI AND TOKYO NICHI
NICHI, English Edition, published what purported to be the
Navy's recommendations to the newly-established Hirota
Government for reform of the national administration.
Under the heading of "Foreign Policy", the Navy is re-
ported to have suggested the following:
"(1) Establishment of Foreign Policy.
Centralization of diplomacy and enhancement
of the self-initiative polioy through the
founding of a national policy of dealing with
foreign nations.
(2) Protection of the North and Southern
Penetration. As regards Japan's continental
development, we should not depend on Asia alone
to maintain the life of our nation. We should
expect a southward penetration for our national
development in the future. But this southward
penetration must be carried out by pacific means,
rejecting all recourse to force."
on

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.99)
53-5
- 5 -
On Apri1 17, 1936, the YOMIURI and MIYAKO newspapers
published reports to the effect that the Premier, Mr.
Hirota, had decided to abolish the present South Sees
Government (which has jurisdiction over the former German
islands north of the equator, now being held by Japan
under mandate), and to place the islands under the juris-
diction of a bureau in the Formosan Government-General,
"as a step in the execution of the so-called 'southward
policy'". At the same time it was planned to establish
a military government of Formosa and the South Seas Is-
lands, the Governor-General to be an Army or Navy officer
and the Vice Governor-General a civilian. According to
the ASAHI of April 25, 1936, however, Admiral Nagano,
the Minister for the Navy, is opposed to the plan of pla-
cing the South Seas Islands under the jurisdiction of
the Formosan Government General, because, instead of
being abolished, the South Seas Government should be
strengthened "to promote the Navy's policy of southward
advance". The Admiral based his arguments against the in-
corporation of the South Seas Government into the Formosan
Government General on the grounds that there is little eco-
nomic connection between the South Seas Islands and Formosa,
that the people of the two administrations are different
racially and could not well be governed by the same adminis-
tration, and that, as the islands are held under mendate
from the League of Nations, they cannot be regarded as an
integral part of the territory of Japan, as is Formosa, and
cannot be governed under the same system. It does not appear
that

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.98)
53-4
- 6-
that any decision has as yet been reached upon the ques-
tion of the future administration of the South Seas Is-
lands.
There appear to be several reasons for the sudden
recurrence of propaganda in Japan for a "southward advance".
Some observers believe that the Japanese Navy is envious
of the success obtained by the Army in promoting Japanese
expansion and wishes to earn credit with the nation by it-
self undertaking new expansion schemes. With this is
bound up the question of budget appropriations. The further
afield the Navy extends its activities, the larger the appro-
priations which will be necessary for naval defense. Other
observers believe that the Navy, in advocating a southward
advance policy, is primarily in search of an assured supply
of petroleum and is planning to obtain supplies eventually
in Netherland India. This is the opinion of the Naval
Attaché of the Embassy and of the Netherlands Minister to
Tokyo, whose remarks will be given later in this report.
The First Secretary of the Soviet Embassy in Tokyo, who
naturally regards all developments in Japan from the Soviet
point of view, believes that the recent advocacy of a south-
ward advance policy is caused by the fact that the advance
of the Japanese in northwestern Asia has been halted and
cannot be resumed without serious danger of a major war.
He points out that General Chiang Kai-shek has moved a part
of his troops up into southern Shansi; that the Chinese
Communist troops are advancing eastwards through Shensi and
Suiyuan,

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.99)
53-7
- 7 -
Suiyuan, with the slogan of "Down with Japanese Imperian-
ism"; that Outer Mongolia, backed by the Soviet Union,
is offering stout resistance to Japanese penetration;
and that the Soviet Union can effectively prevent the
Japanese Army from encroaching upon Soviet territory.
The Japanese Army on the Asiatic continent is thus fairly
thoroughly encircled and cannot advance without the risk
of a serious war. Consequently the Japanese nation has
turned its attention to the south.
hile this Embassy cannot subscribe entirely to
the thesis that the Japanese nation as a whole has turned
its attention to the south, it does appear probable that
the Japanese Navy, finding the efforts of the Army on the
continent now being fairly consistently thwarted, believes
the time ripe to make a move itself and thereby to draw
the attention of the nation to the Navy rather than to the
Army. It should be understood that there is in Japan a more
or less persistent feud between the Army and the Navy,
dating back to the days when one was controlled by the
Choshu clan and the other by the Satsuma clan. The feud,
of course, does not extend to the point where either party
would let their quarrels endanger the Empire, but it is not
only possible but probable that the Navy, finding that the
Army has extended itself to a point where it is likely to
involve the country in a war unless it stops, has taken
advantage of the situation to show the nation that "Codlin
is the friend, not Short". In addition to that, there is
no

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.99)
53-8
- 8 -
no doubt that the Navy wished to extend its sphere of aoti-
vities to cover the entire western Pacific north of the
Equator and to include, if possible, in that sphere a
section of the Pacific south of the Equator from which
an assured supply of petroleum can be obtained under any
circumstances. The present oil situation in Japan, brought
on by the Army's demand that the foreign oil interests
carry stocks in the country amounting to six months'
supplies, is so uncertain that the Navy undoubtedly will
endeavor to find an independent source of supply as soon
as possible.
The Embassy has been endeavoring, for some time past,
to ascertain exactly what was behind the sudden appearance
of propaganda in favor of a "southward advance", what are
the objectives of the movement, and what effect the move-
ment .ll have upon American interests in the Far East and
especially in the Philippine Islands. Nothing very definite
has yet been learned, but the following summaries of con-
versations and newspaper articles may serve to throw some
light on the question.
On April 25, 1936, General Pabst, the Netherlands
Minister to Japan, called on me and stated, in the course
of our conversation, that he had telegraphed his Govern-
ment to the effect that, if conditions in Europe remained
in the present state, compelling the British fleet to stay
in or near home waters, there was a "fifty-fifty chance"
that the Japanese Navy would attempt a "coup de main"
within six months, with the objective of taking possession
of some part of the Netherlands Indies producing petroleum.
The

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.98)
53-9
- 9 -
The Netherlands Minister, however, is somewhat inclined
to take an alarmist view of affairs, and, except for the
propaganda in favor of a southward movement, I see nothing
to indicate any sudden or drastic move by the Japanese
Navy in the neer future. I am therefore inclined to
discount the Minister's statement.
In a conversation with the First Secretary of the
Embassy on April 21, 1936, Admirel Hasegawa, the Vice
Minister for the Nevy, commented on the "southward advance"
policy of the Navy. He said that the policy was largely
"newspaper talk" but that the Navy did advocate the ex-
tension of Japanese trade to the south. If important trade
routes to the islands to the south of Japan were thus es-
tablished, it would be necessary for the Navy to extend its
operations further afield for the purpose of protecting
these trade routes. The Navy's policy, however, was purely
pacific and implied no threat whatsoever against the
Netherlands Indies or the Philippine Islands. It was the
erroneous conception of the policy published by the news-
papers which had startled various persons.
On April 25, 1936, r. Arita, the Minister for Foreign
Affairs, received the foreign newspaper correspondents in
Tokyo. In the course of the conversation, one of the cor-
respondents asked the Minister to clarify the policy of
southward expansion which had been mentioned in the press
of Japan. According to the JAPAN ADVERYISER of April 26,
1936,
nThe

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.97)
53-10
- 10 -
"The Foreign Minister said that he knew that
the papers were ascribing an alleged intention
of southward expansion to naval circles, but he
did not know whether they were accurate. He
could see nothing beyond economic expansion,
for Japan has no ulterior ambitions.
On April 30, 1936, Mr. Shigeru Yoshida, recently ap-
pointed Japanese Ambassador to Great Britain, called and
stated, in the course of our conversation, that the population
problem in Japan was becoming increasingly difficult and
that foreign countries should realize the seriousness of the
situation and endeavor to help Japan in finding an adequate
outlet. He said that it was principally a matter of finding
outlets for Japan's trade, with opportunity for Japanese
subjects to follow that trade. Upon being asked, he said
that it meant peaceful penetration. Again upon being asked,
he said that he thought that the "blue-water school" ( i.e.,
the school advocating expansion to the south) would win out
eventually over the "continental school".
The Embassy will endeavor to obtain further clarifica-
tion of this alleged policy of the Japanese Navy.
Respectfully yours,
800.
Joseph C. Grew.
ERD:r
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.
n
17
9"
Moscow
11
" American Consulate General, Sydney.

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.918/21
despatch #1775
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
April 13,1936
894.00/648
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING: political conditions and events in Japan. Strict
censorship of inconing and outgoing news will make
it difficult for the diplomatic missions in Tokyo
to obtain accurate and reliable information
concerning-.
1v

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.92)
54-1
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 1816
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, May 11, 1936.
F SATE
SUP TECT: ABOLITION OF THE NAIKAKU SHINGI KAI (CABINET
100
DIVISIN O
L
EVED
吾
EPNT
GNV
No
1936 JUN
894.00/649
DEPART
2
ASFRS
A
UN 2-1936
OF STATE
Hotoranle
N
Scretary of State,
OF ST.
cn
Jashington.
ir:
546
JUN 3- 1936
FILED
.Referring to the Embassy's despatch No. 1332 of May 31,
1935, reporting the creation of the Naikaku Shingi Kai (Cab-
inet Inguiry Council) and the Naikaku Chosa kyoku (Cabinet
Investigation Bureau), 1 have the honor to transmit the Em-
1/ bassy's translation of Imperial Urdinance No. 6l of May 5,
1936, published in the UFFICIAL GAZETTE of May 6, 1936,
which provides for the immediate abolition of the Naikaku
Shingi Kai.
Respectfully yours,
Enclosure:
F/FG
As stated.
Joseph C. Grew.
800.2
CAC:r

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.99)
54-2
Enclosure No. 1 to despatoh
No. 1816 of May 11, 1936 from
the Embassy at Tokyo.
OFFICIAL GAZETTE,
May 6, 1936.
We hereby sanction and cause to be promulgated the
ordinance providing for the abolition of the Cabinet In-
quiry Council (Naikaku Shingi Kai).
Imperial Sign .anual
May 5, 1936.
Countersigned by Koki Hirota, Prime Minister.
Imperial Urdinance No. 61.
The Cabinet Inquiry council (Naikaku Shingi Kai)
shall be abolished.
Supplementary Rule.
The present ordinance shall take effect from the
day of promulgation.

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 2, 1936.
EHD:
Tokyo's No. 1826 of May 13, 1936,
discussi a speech in the Lower House
by a Minseito member, Mr. Saito, in
which the military were taken to task
for continued participation in political
affairs despite the injunction in the
Constitution.
The speaker denounced repressive
measures directed against the press and
free speech, and declared that the
hushing up of affairs in the past was
one of the causes of the February 26
incident.
The Embassy states that the speech
is noteworthy because of the liberal views
expressed and the general acclaim with
which it was received by the press and the
public.
894.00/650
WTT/DLY

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.92)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 1826.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, May 13, 1936
SUBJECT: SPEECH DELIVERED IN THE DIET BY MR. TAKAO
SAITO ON AY 7.
COPIES SENT TO
894.00
O. N.I. AND M. I. D.
EPAR    SAIE
936 U M 1 47
For Distribution-Check
Yes
No
CONNURATIONS
Grade
1011
N RDS
For
In UBA.
EED
CN
5
CofxinFE(381)
894.00/650
20
STATE
A
1936
A-C/0
C2
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
SV
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose the English text, as
translated by the JAPAN ADVERTISER, of a speech made on
JUN 8- 1936
May 7 in the House of Representatives by Mr. Takao Saito,
FILED
a member of the Minseito. This speeoh is noteworthy be-
cause of the liberal views expressed and the general ac-
claim with which it has been received by the press and
the people. It also represents a departure from speeches
made in the last several Diet sessions by reason of its
courage
F/FG

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
courage, its clarity, and its lack of political chi-
canery.
Among the interesting and pertinent points brought
out by Saito were the following: that et the present
time those persons who did not speak of reform and reno-
vation were apparently considered unpatriotic; that
everyone advocated reform, some riting about it, some
making speeches about it, and others even resorting
to violence to carry it out; that meny of those who
shouted for reform and the "Showa Restoration" did not
even know whst this reformation should accomplish;
that he (the sneaker) had no antipathy toward the Army
or the ar Minister or any idea of bringing about alien-
ation of the people from the Army; that there may have
been many social causes for the February 26 Incident
but that one of them was the continual participation
of the military in political affairs; that the Meiji
Imperial Rescript to the Army forbade participation
of the military in political affairs; that if "fight-
ing men" were allowed to debate on politics and eco-
nomics it was only natural that tney shoula eventually
resort to force to carry out their views; that the
germ of such incidents of violence as those of May
15, 1932, and February 26, 1936, 1ay in the puerile
gullibility of the younger officers, who believed in
ideas about which they knew nothing; that the hushing
up of past incidents by the Army was one of the
causes of the February 26 Incident; that, apropos of
the

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
the May 15 Incident, "such an action as murdering a
Premier entrusted with the affairs of state by His
Majesty the Emperor in his Official Residence in
broad daylight can never be permitted"; that if
radical leftist ideas were harmful to the nation
extreme rightist ideas were equally pernicious; that
the assassination of Finance Minister Takahashi,
General atanabe, and Viscount Saito could not be
adequately denounced nd that the coup was "futile
and meaningless"; and that the Japanese people had
many things to complain about but that everyone must
stifle his remarks owing to the restriction of the
freedom of speech. According to the nevspapers, ir.
Saito's speech vas reeted by the Lower House members
with sreat appleuse.
The reply of Premier Hirota to Mr. Saito's inter-
pellation a peared to sidestep the issue. The sist of
the Premier's remarks was that in the present inter-
national situation reforms were needed to fit a state
of "armed peace" ana not one of "peacetime". On the
other hand, the .ar inister's reply was unhesitating
and to the point.
He stated that he was completely
in accord with the interpellator's views, that the
Army's ideas were embodied in the Meiji Imperial Re-
scrint to the Army, and that he had conveyed his view
to the Army to the effect that all political actions
are prohibited in its ranks. The answers of the Educa-
tion and Justice Ministers to Saito's interpellation
were

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.97)
一 4-
were without interest.
The newspapers were unanimous in praising Mr.
Saito's speech and General Terauchi's frank and clear-
cut reply and various members of the mbassy have heard
a similar oxpression of views from Jepanese. The TOkYo
ICHI ICHI of May 8 stated that r. Saito had said what
the nation had long wanted to say but had failed to
do. The JAPiN TI.S of May 8 and 9 gave voice to tho
same oninion and deplored the fact that the Japanese
people were in no position to set forth similar ideas
after the tragic decth of Premier inukai. In an edi-
torial on the speech, the ASAHI of May 8 described the
atmosphere of the present iet session as distinctly
different from that which has prevailed in the sessions
of recent years. The IYAko of May 9 stated the opinion
that lir. Saito had xpressed the views of all the people
and thet General Terauchi, unlike his predecessors,
Generals Araki and Hayashi, had gone the length of con-
demning interference by the military in politics. The
JAPAN CIROIICLE of May 10 attributed the popular ad-
miration for the speech to the courag thet was required
for delivering it. In conmenting upon Mr. Saito's re-
marks, the YOMIURI of May 9 asserted that the February
26 Incident would not have occurred if the authorities
had taken appropriate measures to curb extreme views
held by certain elements in the Army.
Mr. Saito's speech has been the highlight in the
Diet

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
Diet proceedings thus far because of its outspoken
character and the general acclaim given it by the
House of Representatives. Another despatch dealing
with the Diet proceedings as a whole is now under
preparation.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosure:
1/ As stated.
800.
GDA:c:r
Copy to American Embassy, LMoscow
Embassy, -eiping.

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1
to despatch
No.1826
dated May 13, 1936.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Friday, May 8, 1936.
Mr. Takao Saito, Mínselto, took the
"There may be many soclal causès
rostrum at 3:03 o'clock and began:
which have led up to the incident but
"The Hirota Cabinet which was
one of them is the participation of the
formed as the result of the February
oldier in political movements. Since
20 incident which left a huge blot on
the Manchurian incident, there have
the history of the Empire, issued a
arisen men in the army who advocate
statement upon its inception and pro-
national reconstruction and take active
n ised to the public renovation in gen-
part in political movements. What is
cral administration and establishment
the War Ministry authorities' opinion
o! renovated policies. Cabinets in the
on the matter?"
p: st had made promises and had in-
He then dwelt on the Imperial Re-
variably collapsed before any of them
script to the army, interpretation of
could sarry out the promises. This is
the Constitution and the Military and
because they lacktd the courage, con-
victions and enthusiasm to surmount
Naval Criminal Laws in which partici-
the diffliculties as they arise. To talk
pation of soldiers in political move-
o! reform is casy but it is another
ments is forbidden.
matter to effect that reform.
"Why is participation of the military
"Reform" Loosely Talked of
in political movements prohibited?
"At present those who do not speak
That is because in a time of emergency
of reform and renovation are apparent-
ly considered unpatriotic. Everybody
soldiers must take the field in defence
tvocates reform in writing, in speaking
of the nation. If fighting men are al-
and some have even resorted to viol-
lowed to debate on politics and eco-
ence to carry out reform. The fact is
nomics. it is only natural that they
that. however, among those who ery
should eventually come to resort to
out for reform and Showa Renovation
force to carry out their views. I was
and the like many even do not know
present at the hearing of the May 15
what this reform or renovation should
incident some time ago and I was deep-
accomplish. What I am saying should
ly impressed by the serene and earnest
not be confused with the words of those
attitude oi the young officers who took
political failures or pedants who ad-
part in it. But I regret to say that
vocate matters impossible of accom-
their ideas were too simple and because
pl:shment.
of their youth and lack of traiming in
"1. There is much talk about reor-
social problems they had given ear to
ganization of the Upper and Lower
lopsided views held in some quarters
Houses but what is the opinion of the
or had been taken in by national re-
Government on the matter?
construction views of irresponsible ele-
"2. What is the view of the Govern-
ments. They read books by a certain
ment regarding reform of the adminis-
Okawa (Dr. Shumei Okawa) and swal-
trative organization. Has the Govern-
lowed whcle such naive and laughable
Iment any concrete steps to propose?
theories. They are simple and pure
If the Government is going merely
but puerile. Here lies the germ of
to state its determination or assure us
such incidents of violence, I believe..
that it will study the matter by appoint-
What is the view of the War Minister
ing a committee on it, there is no need
on this point?
of the Government making a reply to
"There have been (deleted) similar
iny questions. If it is resolved upon
incidents. but the Army has hushed
eforin, it must have concrete and de-
them up. Why? Is not the fact that
finite plans to put forward."
the authorities took such a make-shift.
Mr. Saito then turned to the question
step one of the causes of the 'encr-
of Ministers without portfolio and said:
mous' incident of February 26?
"If the Government contemplates ap-
"I should next like to queston the
pointing Ministers without portfolio be-
attitude of the authorities regarding
cause the present Cabinet lacks ef-
the May 15 incident. Such an action
ficiency enough without them, then the
as murdering a Premier entrusted
Cabinet should resign at once. It would
with the affairs of State by His Ma-
be a severe mistake to think that mere-
jesty the Emperor in bis official resi-
ly in order to fulfill the promise of re-
dence in broad daylignt can never be
novation nominally it would serve to
permitted. But 'nas the judicial right
"ppoint Ministers without portfolio."
been properly exercised? Procurator
Next he dwelt on the problem of
Yamamoto of. the navy, staking his
educational reform, improvement of the
life, delivered his incomparably splen-
judicial system and the defect of too-
did argurnent for the prosecution and
iengthy examination in the courts and
demande the death sentence for the
violation of personal rights by the judi-
three leuders of the conspiracy. Some
cary. Then he took up the February
ill-ady'ised elements, however, made
20 incident.
atter:pts on the life of Mr. Yamamoto
"With regard to the incident War
and gendarmes had to be posted about
Minister Terauchi explained in detail
his house to protect his person. What
yesterday in camera but here is one
of the army which allowed another
thing I must mention at any rate. I
such incident to break out? It only
have no antipathy for the army, no
demanded imprisonment for 15 years
ill-will towards the War Minister or
cr for life. How were the civilian de-
any intention of disseminating anti-
fendants dealt with? Trial in court,
military ideas or plotting alienation of
conducted in the name of the Emperor,
the feeling of the people from the
must be strictly fair and impartial.
army.
What is the opinion of the authori-
ties?"

=== Page 175 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
Cabinet Sits Silent
His words went home like so many
Applause Bursts Out
sword thrusts and a cry went up from
Mr. Saito, his thin figure afire with
the assembly. Premier Hirota, War
ardor. pressed upon the Government
Minister Terauchi and the rest of the
with every weapon he could lay his
Cabinet members sat still, their eyes
hands on and the assembly caching
fixed on their desks or their arms fold-
his spirit burst into rousing applause.
ed in contemplative attitudes.
There was extreme tension throughout
At 4:28 o'clock Mr. Saito, with his
his speech with not a person stirring or
final remark:
making a sound. Afer reading ex-
"If I seem to have spoken too harsh-
tracts from the argument of Procurator
ly, it was for the sake of revival of
Yamamoto denouncing the attitude of
parliamentary rule in this country,"
the junior officers in the May 15 in-
descended from the rostrum amid thun-
cident. Mr. Saito urged fundamental
dering applause.
reform of the army.
Premier Hirota stood up:
"There are two causes for the out-
"If there are points which need be
break of such incidents. The danger
revised in the legislative structure,
of such ideas as overthrowing the Gov-
then I hope you will undertake posi-
ernment in the name of patriotism is
tively to revise them. As to admini-
the same for both cases. The road
strative reform. I have private views
which our country must take is nothing
of my own and I hope to effect suit-
other than the parliamentary govern-
able readjustments.
mentary government which Emperor
"With regard to practical politics, 1
Meiji inaugurated for all time. Par-
think that Japan is under a destiny
liamentary statesmen should express
which a nation must pass through when
their views in the Diet without flinch-
it realizes the experience underwent
ing and enforce policies which they
by the European nations. We must
deem proper. If radical leftist thought
take full cognizance of this point and
is harmful to the nation, so too is ex-
Government and people must co-ope-
treme rightist thought pernicious. We
rate for effecting various reforms. These
must, with determination, dislodge all
reforms in the present international
those elements who plot the destruction
situation are not of the peacetime na-.
of the State in the name of the pro-
ture which Mr. Saito conceives but I
letarian masses or those who seek to
believe to be of the nature of armed
realize their political ambitions by
peace. National policies, therefore, must
conspiring with adventurers outside the
be fashioned on the basis of this re-
political field. In the Chinese classics
cognition."
it is said that 'if wrath be not forth-
War Minister Terauchi:
"I am completely in accord with the
coming where wrath is due, then trea-
cherous subjects will rise.' Firm judg-
views of Mr. Saito. The convictions
ment and measures of War Minister
of the army are those which are stated
Terauchi are requested."
in the Imperial Rescript to the army.
As he paused a storm of applause
I think you are aware that I have corn-
greeted him.
veyed this point to the army. The
"To have put to the sword Finance
rights to vote or be elected or express
Minister Takahashi. Inspector-General
opinion by writing or other channels.
of Military Education General Wata-
nabe and Viscoun: Saito. Lord Keeper
in short, all political actions are pro-
hibited in the ranks of the Army. We
of the Privy Seal. to whom the Emperor
are fully aware of that."
ped much confidence, is an action
which cannot sufficiently be denounced
He read from his memorandum, and
and at the samc time it was such a
sat down after this simple reply.
futile and meaningless coup.
Education Minister Hachisaburo Hi-
"What did some quarters of the army
rao:
do at the time the Cabinet was formed?
"As I stated yesterday, concrete
They declared that no political party
schemes are now being drafted for edu-
men should join the rew Cabinet, caus-
cational reforms. I will co-operate
ed the Premier appointed by the Em-
peror to be at a loss in forming his
wtih all quarters concerned for their
Cabinet and prevented members of the
enforcement."
Diet elected by the will of the people
Justice Minister Dr. Raizaburo Ha-
from becoming Ministers. Why was this?
yashi:
The people now have many things to
say and to debate about. But the free-
"I am completely in agre ement with
dom of speech has been restricted and
your view that criminal tríals take too
one must stifle his complaints and re-
long. We are now making a study of
main silent. The people can only
the issue. With regard to violation of
sympathize among themselves and ex-
personal rights, we shall try to prevent
press their indignation in mute ges-
recurrence of such happenings."
tures."

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
une 8, 19361
THE UNOTTURLIAHY
EHD:
2
MMIT:
SKH:
Tokyo's 1833 of May 14, 1936, reports
further in regard to the aftermath of the
February 26 incident. The report is
divided into two parts -- one concerning
developments in the army, and the other
concerning economic, social and administra-
tive reforms.
The army unquestionably suffered a
considerable loss of sympathy in consequence
of the February 26 incident. Numerous
critical interpellations were directed at
the Minister for War in the special session
of the Diet. The press showed itself in
sympathy with the critics of the army.
The army has obviously taken to heart
the criticisms directed against it and has
taken steps to eliminate those elements
which have called down the wrath of the
public. The sentence of death imposed
upon Colonel Aizawa, slayer of General
Nagata, is an indication of the deter-
mination of the army to put its house in
order.
At the same time the army is unshaken
in its determination to dominate in the
councils of the nation. Rather than being
crushed by the shame of the February 26
incident, the army has in fact tightened
its hold upon the government.
Following

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
Following the February 26 incident
there was much talk of the necessity of
far-reaching reforms in the economic,
social and administrative affairs of the
nation. This far there has been little
evidence of any concrete measures being
undertaken, although many proposals are
being discussed. Observers are coming to
believe that the Government is deliberately
procrastinating, in the expectation that
the agitation for such measures will die
down. Such tactics are fraught with
danger in view of the state of mind in
Japan at present.
894.00/651
W1
WTT/DLY

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.89)
55-1
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 1833.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, May 14, 1936.
894.00
SUBJECT: AFTERMATH OF THE FEBRUARY 26TH INCIDENT.
AR  SAT
936 U 1 M 1 46
0MITIONS
S
D.VISION OF
RECEIV
9
V
on
vOMiD
confidence
CONFIDENTIAL
COPIES SENT TO
894.00/651
U.N.I. AND M. I.D2
spayin FE (381)
EYN
ALFAIRS
RY
VA
TA
Honorable
Department of Stato
The Secretary of State,
A00
Washington.
SSis:
1675
UN 17 1936
FILED
ith reference to the Embassy's despatch No. 1784,
dated April 17, 1936, concerning the results flowing
from the incident of February 26, 1936, I now have the
honor to report the following developments in the situ-
ation.
Position of the Army.
The Japanese Army, and particularly that portion
of the Army which has been concerning itself with political
questions
F/FG

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.98)
552
- 2 -
questions and advocating ultra-nationalistic princi-
ples, does not appear to be in favor in Japen at the
moment. Since the convening of the special session
of the Diet on Mey 1, numerous critical interpella-
tions have been directed at the Liinister for War, the
most striking one being that of r. Takao Saito, a
Minseito member of the Lower House, delivered on May
7 (Embassy's despatch No. 1826, dated Mey 13, 1936).
In the course of his interpellation, r. Saito cri-
ticized the teniency of young Army ofiicers to meddle
in political affairs and described their ideas as
"naive", "laughable" and "simple and pure but puerile".
He condenned the Army authorities for not having taken
steps at an earlier date to eliminate erroneous ideas
in the Army and declared that the May 15 and February
26 incidents could have been prevented if the higher
authorities in the Army had endeavored from the first
to remove the causes of the evil.
He further declared
that extreme rightists were as dangerous to the state
as extreme leftists and advised the higher military
authorities to guide properly the younger officers,
in order to prevent the crowth of dangerous idees.
His speech was greeted with loud and prolonged applause
and was later conmented upon most favorably by several
newspapers, indicating clearly that the general senti-
ment in the country is favorable to the critics of the
Army and opposed to that section of the Army which has
advoceted extreme reactionary principles.
The Army has been somewhat embarrassed by these
demonstrations of lack of syanathy, and consequently
1s

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.98)
55-3
- 3 -
is apparently taking strong measures to eliminate
from the Army those elements which have called down
upon the Army the wrath of the public. The most
striking example of these measures is the sentencing
to death of Lieutenant-Colonel Aizawa, the murderer
of Lieutenant-General Nagata in August last (see
Embassy's despatch No. 1821, dated May 12, 1936).
This sentence, imposed by the First Division Court
Martial (held in camera) on iay 7, 1936, is much
more severe than the sentences imposed upon the young
Army and  avy officers involved in the murder of
Premier Inukai on may 15, 1932. 1t wil1 be remembered
that the young officers involved in that affair re-
ceived prison sentences of from one to fifteen years,
with, of course, conmutation of sentence for good be-
havior and by Imperial clemency, although the civi-
lian particinents in the Liey 15 affair, who were
tried in the civil courts, received life sentences.
The sentence imposed upon Colonel Aizawa is also
an indicetion of the severity of the sentences which
will be imposed upon the young officers involved in
the incident of February 26 and of the determination
of the Army to rid itself of those who are subjecting
the organization to the criticism of the public.
At the same time, the Army does not seem to be
greatly worried over the criticisms in the Diet end
the newspapers. It is proceeding calmly and smugly
on its way, believing thoroughly in its mission as
the savior of Japan. It continues to keep Tokyo in
the

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.98)
554
- 4 -
the grip of martial law, has asked for larger appro-
priations than ever, has formulated end proposed bills
for the mobilization of industries, for the preserva-
tion of national industrial mobilization secrets and
for the control of "seditious literature". These meas-
ures, if passed, obviously would increase the power of
the Army to control the internel administration of the
country. In addition there have been inaugurated
so-called "Three-inister Conferences", composed of
the Ministers for Foreign ffairs, War and Navy, for
the purpose of discussing Japan's foreign policies.
The Three-inister Conferences have received criti-
cism in the Diet, but the Army and avy maintein that,
from the broad vievpoint of national defense, their
Ministers should have the right and op ortunity to
express their views in regard to foreign policy as
well as to internel administration.
It would aupear, therefore, that the military,
rather than being crushed by the shame of the February
26 incident, have in fact taken advantage of the inci-
dent to tighten their hold upon the Japanese Govern-
ment and to further the so-called "Showa Restoration"
(which in fact means the restoration of some form of
govermnent resembling the Shogunate). At the seme time,
it shoula not be forgotten that the militery sincerely
believe that the nation stands in grave danger of in-
volvement in a serious var in the not distant future
and that it is therefore of pressing necessity that
the

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.98)
555
- 5 -
the defense forces be augmented and the nation
unified under the mperor(with, of course, the
leadership of the military). The military's in-
sistence upon dominance in the Government can be
ascribed quite as ell to the immediate necessity,
real or fancied, of defense, as to the more vague
idea of a return of military government in Janan.
Economic, Social and Administrative Reforms.
As will be observed from a perusal of the ad-
dresses of the Premier and the Ministers for Foreign
Affairs,Finance and Jar before the iet on May 6
(Embassy's despatch 1.o. 1830, dated Mey 14, 1936),
no concrete measures ere announced for the execution
of the economic, social end administrative reforms
promised the nation by the Hirote Cabinet upon its
inauguration. The policies outlined in the speeches
before the Diet were vague and not very convincing,
and the Cabinet has not introduced any reform measures
of importance, the bulk of the bills introduced having
been carried over from the previous government.
The
only social reform bill of importance introduced by
the Hirota Cabinet is one compelling industrialists
to build up retirement allowance funds for their
employees.
this lack of concrete reform measures
has diseppointed the nation, which apparently hed
expected much of the present national or "trenscen-
dental" Cabinet. Several of the prominent newspapers,
including the ASAHI, the KOKUIN, the YOMIURI end the
JIJI

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.98)
556
- 6 -
JIJI, have conmented editorially upon the vagueness
of the speeches of the Ministers, the unsatisfactory
nature of their replies to interpellations and the
failure of the Cabinet to carry out the promised
administrative reforms. he TOKYO NICHI NICHI of
May 13 steted that the Army also is dissatisfied
with the lack of zeal for administrative reform
in the civilian government. The Army, according
to the newspaper, feels this esnecially strongly
because the Army itself has been endeavoring , with
success, to purge itself of the elements leading
to unrest and indiscipline. It believes that the
civilian autnorities should show the same zeal in
effecting reforms, instead of issuing vague promises
only.
Ir. Hirota's announced nolicy, however, was to
undertake economic and edministrative reforms slowly
and gradually, in order to avoid any great disturbance
of the life of the people, and in reply to interpella-
tions in the iet, the Cabinet Linisters involved have
stated that administrative reforms and changes in the
economic system will be studied after the present
session of the iet. Observers of the situation are
becoming of the opinion, however, that the Hirota
Cabinet is deliberately procrastinating in regard to
reform measures, in the expectation that the agitation
for such measures will die out, and that the Government
then will be able to maintain the status quo , with
only

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.96)
55-7
-7-
only such minor reform measures as may be foroed
upon the Government by discontented elements in
and out of the administration. The possibility
always exists, however, that if the Government
adopts such procrastinating and half-way tactics,
and instead of earnestly endeavoring to correct
the maladjustments and abuses in Japan, attempts
to suppress by use of force all symptoms of unrest
and discontent, there will arise other and perheps
worse incidents than those of .ay 15, 1932, and
ebruary 26, 1936.
Respectfully yours,
8
Joseph C. Grew.
800.
ERD:r
cony to merican mbassy, Peiping.
4

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.92)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
NO.
1847.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
OF STATE
Tokyo, May 15, 1936.
SUBJECT: JAPAN'S "SOUTIL ARD ADVANCE" POLICY.
-C/C
OF
STATE
SRY
E
REEIV
PM
ENT
ont
1936 JUN
COPIES SENT TO
C
894.00/652
O. N.I. AND M. I.D.
Live
794.
38mc
FAR LASTLER
1936
The Hone ble
The Secretary of State,
Jashington.
Sir:
647
Referrin to the mbassy's despatch No. 1798, dated
JUN 24 1936
FILED
April 30, 1936, in regard to the so-called "southward
advance" policy of Japen, now receiving some attention
in the Japanese press, I have the honor to report the
following developments in re ard to this policy.
Nevy Pamphlet.
The Japanese Navy has published a pamphlet which is
to be distributed to the public on avy Day (lay 27th).
An
F/FG

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
An advance copy has been received, however, by the Naval
Attaché of the Embassy, and a partial translation has
been made. The pamphlet discusses the international
situation, the dangers which beset Japan and the necessity
for the strengthening of naval armaments, and is ob-
viously designed to serve es propaganda for larger naval
eppropriations. The pemphlet, however, also discusses
briefly the "southward advance" policy under the heading
of "Urgont Mecessity for Oceanic Development". A trans-
lation of this paragraph, made by the ADVERTISER from a
IHOCHI review of the panmphlet, is as follows:
"Japan is small in area, poor in natural
resources end in much of the naterials necessary
for the livin of the people. Development of
nationel fortunes end netional defense depends
on imports from abroad. All of such materials
are produced by Japan's oceanic neighbors.
Consequently.to maintain the safety of the seas
and free importation of raw materials and ex-
change of products is to stabilize the living
of the people and assure replenishment of war
materials. In this respect, development of the
vast South Seas area, which still remains a
treasure trove awaiting exploitation, will not
only make a far-reaching contribution to the
solution of our population end food problem
but will accelerate the increase in Japan's
wealth. It constitutes a measure of the ut-
most urgency."
There is no indication in the pamphlet that the Navy
contemplates territorial acguisition in the South Seas,
although a hint of the probable use of force in ac-
quiring advantages in the South Seas is contained in an
earlier paragraph in the pemphlet, discussing Japan's
foreign policy, wherein it is stated that the authority
behind

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.95)
- 3 -
behind Japanese diplomacy should be a foreign policy
based on "justice and strength".
Statement of the Australia-Japan Society of Tokyo.
In order to allay misgivings felt in Australia in
regard to Japan's "southward advance" policy, the Aus-
tralia-Japan Society, whose president is Baron Yoshiro
Sakatani, on May 12, 1936, issued a statement in Japanese
and English, containing certain resolutions passed by
the directors of the Society. A clipping from the JAPAN
ADVERTISER of May 13, 1936, containing the text of the
1/
statement anu resolutions, is enclosed herewith. The
statement end resolutions review the frienaly relations
previously existing between Japan and Australia; regret
that these relations have been disturbed because of fears
in Australia that Japan is aibitious to acquire terri-
tory in the South Pacific; deplore the irresponsible
utterances and publications in Janan which have given
rise to these fears; state Janan's need for economic
expansion in the South Pacific; and deny any ambition
for territoriel ex ansion in that part of the world.
Respectfully yours,
Gor 6. iew
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosure:
Clinping from the ADVERTISER of
May 13, 1936.
800.
ERD:r
Copy to Embasuy, reiping
it
1"
11
London
" consulate General, Sydney.

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to de-
spatch No. 1847 of May 15,
The Japan Advertiser.
1936 from the Embassy at
Tokyo.
Tokyo, Wednesday, May 13, 1936.
GROUP HERE DENIES
"The menbers of this Society know
little about irresponsible publications
and utterar.ces which, they are given
to understand, have caused, and still
AUSTRALIA COVETED
are causing, misgivings in Australia.
Realizing how deplorable it would be
if such misgivings should disturb the
friendship between the two countries.
the Australia-Japan Society held a
Baron Sakatani, Society Presi-
ditectors' meeting on May 5 and, to
clear away misunderstanding which
dent, Issues Statement to
prevails in Australia as well as other
countries, passed the following resolu-
Ease Misunderstanding
tions for publication both in English
'and Japanese:
"1. The Australia-Japan Society has
FURTHER
AMITY DESIRED
observed with keen regret that recent
developments are tending to disturb
the goodwill which has characterized
Utterances Indicating Territo-
relations between the two countries.
"2. The Australia-Japan Society feels
rial Aims Attributed to Ir-
that the present tension is due prin-
responsible Persons
cipally to misunderstanding, and it be-
lieves thst careful consideration of the
requirements of the two countries will
In an effort to silence Australian
make it clear that the interests of both
will be best served by sympathetic co-
fears that Japan wants territory in
operation.
the South Pacific. which are disturb-
Both Want Security
ing relations between the two coun-
tries. the Australia-Japan Society is-
"3. The national policies of Aus-
sued yesterday a statement. signed by
tralia and Japan, like those of other
its president. Baron Yoshiro Sakatani.
countries. must be designed to est-
denying that there is any basis for
ablish national security on the basis
such fears.
of political stability and economie
The statement follows:
prosperity.
"As a result of the visit to these
"4. The
Australia-Japan Society
shores, three years ago. of the Aus-
regrets to learn that some Australians
tralian goodwill mission headed by
entertain misgivings owing to the pub-
Sir John Latham. then Deputy Prime
lications and utterances of certain Ja-
Minister and Minister for External
panese suggesting that the national se-
Affairs in the Commonwealth Gov-
curity of Japan can only be established
ernment. trade relations between
by extensive territorial acquisitions in
Australia and Japan, which were al-
the South Pacific.
ready close. became closer still.
"5. The Australia-Japan Society be-
"Last year. the Japanese Govern-
lieves that these misigivings are based
ment sent to Australia Mr. Katsuji
on misunderstanding. Japan naturally
Debuchi. then Ambassador. as good-
must look to other countries for sup-
will envoy—a fact which proved a
plies of raw material, and she must
valuable asset in tightening the bond
cbtain foreign markets for her manu-
of friendship between the two coun-
factured goods. On this account, she
tries.
must give careful attention to her eco-
"It is a pity. therefore. that from
nomic expansion in the South Pacific
the beginning of this year. these
as well as other spheres. but, in the
friendly relations have been disturbed.
opinion of the Australia-Japan So-
"The Australia-Japan Society has
ciety, she is not ambitious of territorial
learned. from Australians visiting
expansion in the South Pacific area.
Japan, that this change of attitude is
"6. The Australia-Japan Society be-
based largely on the thought enter-
lieves that Japanese trade relations
tained in Australia that Japan is am-
with Australia have hitherto been as
bitious of aequiring territory in the
friendly, if not more so, as those with
South Pacific.
other countries: it believes that frank
Advocates Irresponsible
explanation will remove existing mis-
"It is possible that some irresponsible
understandings; it believes still further
Japanese may cherish such ambitions,
that, if it were made clear that the
because Australia seems, from the Ja-
publications and utterances referred to
parese point of view. to be trying to
come from irresponsible people, good
check Japan's economic expansion in
relations between Australia and Japan
the South Pacific. It is a matter for
would continue undisturbed."
profound regret that such misunder-
standings should exist. for they im-
peril the economic interests of the two
countries and the friendly relations
which have hitherto existed between
them.

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.94)
FORTUNE
RECEIVED
EDITORIAL OFFICES
JUN 3 1936
135 EAST 42ND STREET
NEW YORK
DIVISION OF
May 26, 1936
Jib
894
Eugene H. Dooman, Esq.
anid
Far Eastern Division
Department of State
Washington, D.C.
MAY 29 1936
Dear Mr. Dooman,
894.00/653
We have been told that an excelleht report
on the February 26th Incident was made by Ambassador
Grew.
Could we insnect this in your office?
Sincerely yours
Rea Booth
Rhoda Booth
JiN 31936
F/FG

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.94)
Dear
Miss Booth:
I have before me your letter of May 26 asking
whether you could inspect at the Department a repest
submitted by Mr. Grew with regard to the mo-ealled
Pebruary 26 inoident.
We regret that, for various reasons, we do mot
see our way clear to making available the repert to
which you refer.
Sincerely yours,
Lugeue It Doomars
Eugene H. Dooman.
Misa Rhoda Booth,
Care of FORTUNE MAGAZINE,
JN1938.
135 East 42nd Street,
New York, New York.
Approved by SK H.
FETTHD/DLY
FE
3.m.v
A true co
of
nal.

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 19, 1936.
EHD:
SK:
Peiping's No. 472 of May 21, 1936,
transmits the text in translation of an
interesting document: the declaration
issued February 26 by Captain Noguchi in
which the aims of the leaders of the
attempted coup in Tokyo are set forth.
It is interesting to note that the
"Genro, chief vassals, certain military
factions, bureaucratists and political
parties" are declared to be the destroyers
of the nation and that their crimes
include "the conclusion of the London
Naval Treaty and ... the shifting of the
Inspector-General of Military Education
(Mazaki)". Mention is made of the "self-
sacrifice" of Lieutenant Colonel Aizawa.
The leaders of the coup declare that "the
time is ripe at last for manifestation and
realization of the national mission all
over the world".
894.00/654
11
WTT, DLY

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.93)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
A
No.47.2
Peiping, May 21, 1936.
Subject:
Declaration of Captain Shiro Noguchi
and the Righteous Army of Restoration.
894.00
No)
6ni
MiD
EBC
STATE
1936   1 1 1 28
JUN 22
COMMUNICATIONS
RDS
894.00/654
JONSISIAO
ARTMENT OF STATE
A-C/C
C
川IN
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
(1
OF STATE
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
I have the honor to forward a copy of despatch
JUN 27 1936
1/
No. 227 of April 27, 1936, addressed to the Embassy
FILED
by the Consulate General at Harbin, enclosing copies
in Japanese and in translation of the texts of two
declarations issued February 26 and 28, 1936, by
"Captain Shiro Noguchi and others" and by the "Righteous
Army of Restoration", having to do with the situation
in Japan at that time.
These

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
These copias are forwarded in view of the
possibility that copies may not have been received
fram other sources.
Respectfully yours,
Mlo husegnem
Nelson TrusleF Johnson
Enclosure:
Harbin's despatch No. 227,
April 27, 1936. (Japanese
text with original only.)
Original and four copies to Department.
Copy to Embassy Nanking.
Copy to Embassy Tokyo.
800
LES-SC

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.97)
ENGLOBURENG
GORRECT COPY
TO HESPITOH N
No.227
AMERI CAN CONSULATE GENE RAL
Harbin, Manchuria, April 27, 1956.
Subject: Declaration of Captain Shiro Noguchi
and others.
Nelson Pruster 1
Peiping, China.
Sir:
I have the honor to report that a member of the staff
of the Harbin Consulate General has obtained the Japanese
texts of two declarati ns dated respectively February 26
and February 28, 1936, purporting to have been issued by
"Captain Shiro Noguchi and othe rs" and the "Righteous Army
of Restorati on". These declarations have not been pub-
lished here.
I realize that the Embassy has probably received from
Tokyo copies of the declarations, but upon the possibility
that the Embassy has not sen them and may be interested in
them, I am attaching hereto copies and English translations.
Respootfully yours,
Walter A. Adams
Walter A. Adams
American Consul Goner al.
Enclosure:
Copy and translation of
declarations of "Captain Noguchi
and others" and the "Righteous
Army of Restoration.
Gopy to Eabasay, Nanking
Copy to Consulate Gemral, Mukden.
Copy to the Comsulate, Dairon.

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.99)
alated by the American. Con
DECLARATION
It is our humble belier that the divinity in our eot
is found in the essential character of the mation, which i
destined to grow and develop, in perfeet unity under the
whose line is unbroken for ages eternal, unt il it establint
the "One Universe Under one Crown". Such national dignity
has no parallel anywhere. Our country has steadily growm up
toward the achievement of its ideal ever sinee it was orested
by the Heavenly Aneestor and nationalized by the Emperor Jimmu,
and, coming through the Restoration of Meiji, has attained such
quick and finishing development that now the time is rips at last
for manifestation and realization of the national mission all
over the world.
Notwithstanding this, refractory and villainous men have
appeared one after another, indulging in the pursuit of their
self-interests and the fulfillment of their self-desires,
slighting the absolute augustness of His Majesty; going beyond
their powers, hampering the nation's growth, throwing people
into intolerable miseries, inviting foreign insults and causing
difficulties with foreign countries which are growing more ser-
ious day after day. The so-cal led Genro, chief vassals, cer-
tain military factions, bureaucratists and political parties are
the leaders of these destroyers of the national glory.
They trespassed upon the prerogative of the Emperor's
supreme command, among others, in the conclusion of the London
Naval Treaty and in the shifting of the Inspector-General of
Militayy Education; they attempted secretly to steal the
supreme command in the March incident; they united with dis-
loyal professors in rebellious plots. These are a few of the
most remarkable inatances of their  willainies. Thm ir drimes
make us shed bloody tears in uncontrollable anger. No wonder
that Nakaoka, Sagoya and the Blood Confederacy first set
examples, followed by the self-saorificing attempt of the May
15 incident, and lately by Lieutenant-Colonel Aisawa. Yet the
repeated bloody sacrifices have not proved enough to makm the
villains reflect, who still continue to remain in their self-
appointed high positions.
From outside our divine country, entrusted to us by our
Ancestors, is in danger of being exploded to complete ruin by
just one friction after another with Russia, China, England
or America.
The country is in grave danger from within and from with-
out. If the disloyal and untrustworthy villains who are caus-
ing destruction of the country are not promptly suppressed, if
the traitors who could the august virtue of His Majesty and
prevent the restoration are not eliminated, the Imperial rule
will be made vain.
The first army division, stationed in the capital, has
received Imperial Orders to go abroad. We of one mind in the
determination to saerifice our lives in service to Imparial
cause of Restoration are ordered to start on a distant ex-
pedition. But our anxiety over the unspeakable conditien at
home is too great. We believe that it is t he duty of His
Majesty's servants to remove the traitors and evil-deers clome
to the Throne, and to destroy their headquerters. If we he
tate to disoharge our first duty as trusted retainers now

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.99)
Athe opportunity for averting ruin and vice will be
Hereby we of one mind rise for the common cause an
sasrifice everything in the punishment of the treaoheroms su
jeets with death in the olarification of the relations of
sovereign and subjeots, and in defense of our country
pray for approval and assistance of the Spirits of Imperial
Ancestors.
Captain Shiro Noguchi and others.
NB
February 26, Eleventh Ydar of Showa (1936).
The Righteous Army whose aim is reverence for the
Emperor andp unishment for traitors fears no force of any
strength nor weapons of any description.It uncovers all
crafts and plots with its stainless mirror. It is impossible
that troops called His Majesty's Army by name shouad stand
against our Righteous Army. All the armios in the service
of His Majesty are completely one in mind and feel ing with
Our Righteous Army, and are encouraging us. Armies through-
out the country are about to rise with us everyhere and the
whole nati on is shouting Banzais. The Eight Million Gods are
supporting us in sympathy with our devotion. Our loyalty has
reached His Majesty's ears. The Righteous Army is united in
one to the end with firm and clear determination to die to-
gether until the Heavenly Gate is opened and the Restoration
of Showa is accomplished.
March, march, never retreat a step. Courage first,
courage second, and courage third!
And serve the Saored
Work of His Majesty.
The Righteous Army of Restoration.
February 28, Eleventh Year of Showa (1936).

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.89)
蹶起趣意書
天皇陛下御統師下二舉國一致生成化育
遂畢六八宏一宇全7國體二存
不此國體尊嚴秀絕天祖肇國
神武建國ョ明治維新経益大
勢整今正二萬邦=向广開顯進展
遂べ牛秋十然二經來遂二不逞
凶惡徒續出私心私慾擅三
至尊絕對尊嚴猊視借上是働
萬民成化育阻害塗炭疾苦
呻吟セ三夕從了外侮外患日追7广
激化入所謂元老重臣軍閥官僚政党
等此國威破壞元凶十倫敦海軍
条約並=教育總監/交迭=於九統師
權于犯至尊兵馬大權潛竊圗
夕儿三月事件或八學匪凶徒大逆教壇
例二三其例天罪惡八泣血憤怒眞堪工
難千所十中岡佐鄉屋、血盟團先

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.80)
驅捨身五一五事件憤騰相澤中佐先發
ト+ル洵=故十手=非ズ、而力毛幾度力頸血
注來今猶木些毛施回及省十久而力毛
依然卜手私權自薦居今偷安事
上七露支英米上間一觸即發三
祖宗遺無此神州一擲破滅二陷云
八火視毛明十内外與二重大危
急三國體破壞不義不信誅戮言
御稜威遮街維新阻止之來儿奸賊
除元非六皇謨一空七宛毛第一
師團出動大命發七年來御維新翼
贊契匕殉國捨身奉公期來三帝
都衛戍我等同志人正萬里征途上
ラントシテ而モ顧う内暴狀憂心轉夕禁
能必君側奸臣邪賊斬除三う
彼中樞了粉碎我等件克
為スキ臣事夕股腔夕絕對/道
今二三三尽廿心破減非倫觀人二由十三
爰同憂同志軌一三蹶起奸賊
誅滅三大義正國體擁護開
頭二肝腦之尽之以神州赤子微裏
献七下六皇袒皇宗神靈冀八照鑑

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.86)
一
3
冥助垂し賜事う。
昭和十一年二月二十六日
陸軍步兵大尉
野中四郎外一同
尊王討奸義軍八如何九大軍毛兵罰恐ルモう八
大又如何十邪智策謀毛明鏡二三照破
皇庫卜名ック軍隊ガ我ガ義庫ッ討テル道
理ガ十イ大御心奉戴七ル軍隊八我が義軍二對
全然同意同感之我ガ義軍激勵三ッアル
全國軍隊各地=蹶起七卜全國氏八萬歲
絕呌三方儿八百萬神毛我至誠感銘之加護
垂賜？至誠天聽達人義軍飽迫坚確
明徵夕意志以一体上十死生共二三昭和維新
天岩户開待進一步毛退十
一三勇敢二二勇敢三三勇敢。
以聖業翼贊奉レ
昭和十一年二月二十八日
維新義軍

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20/166
#1876
SEE
FOR
894.00/
Japan
Grew
) DATED M29,19.36.
FROM
TO
NAME
1-1127
9
REGARDING:
5
Selitious Li ature Bi l an t. Mobilization Secrets Bill.
5
Th se biil. aroused stubborn opposition both within the Diet
and umong the public as protest ainst regimentation and
the invasion of individual freedom.
However, the bills were
pussed in amended forms.
v.
b
0

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEGRAM REOEIVED
1-1806
FROM
FS
This telegram must be
Tokyo
closely paraphrased be-
fore being communicated
Dated June 23,1936
to anyone. (A)
Rec'd 7:20 a. m.
Secretary of State,
Divi
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Washington.
COPIES SENT TO
894.00/656
O.N.I. ANDM.I.D.
136, June 23, 6 p.
Department af State
February 26 incident.
The Embassy has been informed from a source be-
lieved to be reliable that 19 of the officers and non-
commissioned officers involved in the February 26 incident
were sentenced to doath on June 20 and that the remain-
ing 40 or more officers arrested for implication in the
affair received prison sentences of 5 to 15 years. The
Embassy has been unable as yet to confirm this rcport.
JUN·25 1936
FILED
WC:RR
GREW

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.92)
LARALLL
A telegram dated Jume 25, 19ss, fr
Ambassader at Tokyo, reads sabstantially ms
CONFIDENTIAL
Referring to the inoident of February s
has been received by the Embessy from a souree
believed reliable to the effect that on June so 
of the officers and non-commissioned officers whe
involved in the incident received sentences of demth 
that the remaining officers, numbering forty or mores
arrested for implication in the incident, received
sentences of five to fifteen years in prison. The Embamsy
has not been able as yet to obtain confirmation of this
report.
1
FE:REK
FE
m.m.N

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
RR
GRAY
Tokio
1-1836
FROM Dated June 24, 1936.
Received 9:45 a. m.
Division
Secretary of State,
YAR EASTERIRS
COPIES SENT TO
U.N.I. AND M.I.D
Washington.
Department of State
140, June 24, 7 p. m.
/656
CONFIDENTIAL. Embassy's 13, June 23, 6 p. m.
The liaison officer of the ar Office, a source
894.00/657
of information believed to be reliable on the basis of
voluntary information furnished by him in the past, made
the following definite statements to the ilitary Attache
in the course of a conversatlon today: the officers and
noncommissioned officers who took part in the February
26 incident are in confinement and are still undergoing
trial; the trial of the ringleaders will be completed
within a comparatively short time, probably before July
JUN·26 1936
10; the findings of, and the provisions of the decrees by,
FILED
the Court will be announced to the public before any
sentences are executed; martial law will probably not
end by July l0 as announced by the press; a date when
the army hopes to end martial law has been fixed but
cannot be announced because of the necessity of considering
the situation when that date arrives.
F/FG
In reply to the Military Attache's query as to
possible sympathetic demonstrations by the public when
the

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.99)
140, June 24, 7 p. m. from Tokio
-2-
the sentences of the insurgent officers are announood,
the liaison officer of the Wer Office stated that martiaf
law would take care of such situations if they arose.
The liaison officer also said that Colonel Aizawa's
appeal against the death sentence pronounced against him
on May 7 last was now under investigation by the army's
highest court in Tokio.
HPD
GREW

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.98)
July 7, 1930
The attached paper is from
American Embassy. Tokyo.
It is submitted as of interest to the Seoretary
by the Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
(Initials) N.T.T.
3. .6.
Subjeot:
Further Developments in the Situation
Created by the February 26 Incident.
No. 1900, June 12, 1936.
Concise resumé of contents:
This despatch contains little new in the
way of information, but it gives a very good
picture of the stresses among the elements in
control or seeking control of the nation; of
the conviction on all sides that some fundamental
change is needed within the nation, and the groping
for a program which will bring about that change;
of a perplexed civil government faced by serious
problems of diplomacy and finance, goaded by a
military machine that not only challenges the
authority of the civil government but threatens
to get out of control of its leaders; of a people
accustomed to follow docilely its leaders,
bewildered by the strife among those leaders and
disturbed by demonstrations of unrest at home
and by dire predictions of trouble abroad.
894.00/658
Recommendation of action:
Secretary's instruotion:

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.93)
OFEOF FE
THE FOREIGN SERVIC
JUL 8 1936
OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
UNITED STATES OF AME
AMERICAN EMBASSY
894.00
Tokyo, June 12, 1936.
No. 1900.
SUBJECT:
FURTHER DEVELOPIENTS IN TE SITUATION CREATED
BY TE FEBRUARY 26 ILCIDENT.
COPIBS SENT TO
5!V
C.N.I. AND M I.D.
19336 U1 11 30
S
EED
と
5
894.00/658
MID
ON1
NOTED
4ul. De
CopyanF E (381)
Livison of
T
JUL 14 1936
FILED
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
In the past month there has been no change in the
general tendency of the internal political situation
which resulted from the February 26 Incident and which
was reported to the Department in the Embassy's des-
645
6.51
patches No. 1784/of April 17 and No. 1833 of May 14, 1936.
The developments of the last four weeks have demonstrated
the

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
the changed yet nebulous situation that arose as an after-
math of the insurrection. Specifically, the Government has
continued to express its desire for social and economic re-
form though it has as yet given very little indication of
lhaving evolved any definite plan; the authorities of the
Army have repeatedly reiterated their intention of purging
its ranks of unruly elements and at the same time have ex-
pressed their disapproval of the Government's vague program
of "renovation" and the failure of the political parties to
carry out needed reforms in their midst, particularly in
view of reforms being carried out by the Arny; the Navy,
which occupies a different position fron that of the Army
by virtue of its lack of guilt in the February 26 affair,
has showm concern lest in the future it be contaminated by
political intriguers such as the naval cadets involved in
the May ls affair; and the political parties have remained
tolerant of the Government's delay in action while expressing
the conviction that the Cabinet must soon bring about a re-
organization of the social and economic order and that the
Arny must carry out a thorough "catharsis" to avoid serious
trouble in the future.
In the Army the more moderate element has gained con-
trol. However, recent statements of higher Army officials
and the general trend of events have conclusively shown
that the Army as an entity is more in the saddle now than
The ASAHI of
it was before the February 26 Incident.*
May 25 reported that Army leaders were preparing proposals
for the renovation of Japan's administrative structure be-
cause of their dissatisfaction with the progress made thus
far by the Government for the attainment of the drastic re-
forms
* Embassy's despa tch No. 1833, May 14, 1936.

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
forms needed to tide over the delicate aftermath of the
February 26 Incident.
While administrative reforms continued to be a major
part of the military platform, the Army seemed to be more
interested at the moment in the strengthening of national
defense. In explaining this attitude, the YOMIURI of May 28
stated that the Army had decided to give precedence to the
defense program because definite figures on future military
expenditures would be essential for the working out of the
Governient's financial arrangements. According to the same
newspa er, the Army plans to submit to the Government about
the middle of June a six-year program of military expansion
with an expenditure of 2,000,000,000, this progran to in-
clude a strengthening of the air force, un increase in modern
armanents, and
improvemonts in the military machine in
Manchuria.
Aside from concessions demanded for its ovm direct
benefit, the Army is reported to be insistent upon the
esteblishment of a firmer diplomc tic policy which will
apply not only to Soviet Russia and to China but to the
whole world. It will be recalled that the execution of
a "positive diplomatic policy" was one of the conditions
laid down by General Terauchi for the Army's cooperation
with the present Government.
As reported by the JAPAN ADVERTISER of June 3 and the
JAPAN CiRCMIOLE of June 4, the War Minister told his Cabinet
colleagues at a meeting held on June 2 that while the Army
was making efforts to enforce stricter military discipline,
the political parties had done nothing to bring about
parallel reforms in their own ranks.
Outside

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
Outside of the declarations of the War Minister con-
cerning the purging of the Army now alleged to be in
progress, the Embassy has been able to gather little in-
formation in this respect in the past month. The forced
resignation of higher Ary officials, the wholesale arrest
of civilians suspected of complicity in the February 26
insurrection, the condemnation to death by Court Martial
of Lieutenant Colonel izawa, and the rigid stipulations
made for the trial of the officers involved in the Incident
have already been reported to the Department. As yet noth-
ing is known concerning the results of the Court Martial
now being held for the February 26 rebel officers. However,
the Lnbassy expects to obtain some infommation on this sub-
ject within a few days.
In keeping with the position taken by the Army ever
since the present Cabinet was formed, the Army is now
reportedly more carnest than ever in its desire for politi-
cal reforms. DoiiI of June 7 asserted that unless Premier
Hirota drafted plcis for submission at the next Diet session
for the political reforms demanded when the Cabinet was
formed, military support of the. Government would be with-
drawn. The rmy's rinei1 demands, it will be remembered,
were the followin: clarificetion of the nati onal polity;
adequate national defense; stabilization of the livelihood of
the people, particularly by a fundamental readjustment of
the system of taxation with the object of reducing the
burdens on the masses and increasing the burdens of the
wealthier classes; and renovation of Japan's diplomatic
policy.
The

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
The Navy Minister was likewise reported to be desirous
of maintaining strict discipline in the Navy and of having
the Government reform the general administration and read-
just the financial and taxation systems on the basis of
"defense first". According to the JAPA ADVERTISER of
June 9, at a meeting on the previous day, Admiral Nagano
isaii
told chiefs of naval staffs that he had already issued
instructions regarding the February 26 outbreak; that all
officers and men must remember these instructions and make
discipline more stringent; and that his hearers must not
be led by arguments into taking part in political movements
but must devote thenselves exclusively to their duties as
naval officers.
No change has been noted in the attitude of the politi-
cal parties toward the pre cnt Government since the con-
clusion of the Diet session.* The parties are still toler-
ant of the Government yet are o inous in their warnings
for the future should the Govermnent fail to carry out its
promises. For example, Dr. Suzuki, President of the Seiyukai,
Made a speech on May Be before 2o0 me.ibers of his Farty in
which he stressed the Government's need to reform the exist-
ing political and social order and to bring about a purging
of the Army, addine that any further delay in these matters
micht prove fatal to the nation.
Officials of other Departments have also civen promises
to maintain public order so as to avoid further direct action
outbreaks. In an address delivered on June 8 before ju-
dicial officers, including the President of the Supreme
Court, the Minister of Justice stated that however right
or
* Embassy's des atch No. 1869, May 29, 1936.

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
or noble might be the motives of law violators any attempt
on their part to resort to irrational or direct action meth-
ods should be strictly punished in accordance with the laws
on the statute books.
The ASAiI of June 5 reported that the
Police Bureau of the Home Office was worried about possible
seditious political activities upon the lifting of martial
law and was making preparations for adequate preventive
measures. It is understood that Prelier Hirota, in his
speech before the Frefectural Governors at a Conference to
be called on June 15, will emphasize the necessity of ab-
solute suppression of vild or seditious rumors, so as to re-
move any possiblc public unrest and fear that might result
from the ending of martial law.
There is no doubt that Cabinet members, higher Army
officials and officials of the Justice and Home Affairs
Ministries are fully cocnizant of their responsibilities at
the present juneture. They have repeatedly asserted that
the reforns desired by a large section of the Army and of
the people would be carried out and that every precaution
would be taken against the recurrence of an affair similar
to that of February 26. It still remains to be seen whether
these authorities will be able to meet the present internal
political situation with success, particularly in view of
the almost chaotic state of public opinion. Reforms of the
kind desired by the February 26 insurrectionists are ap-
parently in vogue, yet the insurrectionists themselves are
still heartily condemned; the Governnent, both upon its
organization and during the recent Diet session, has con-
sistently adnitted the need for a change in the status quo
yet

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
yet has done nothing in a concrete way toward effecting
this; and the Army, more firmly entrenched than ever on
account of the repercussions of the February 26 Incident
and the uncertain international situation, is continually
balancing the reform within its own ranks against the
Governnent's pronise of social and economic reform to
fulfil the imnediate demands of the emergency situation
of the past three months.
Under such circunstances it should never be for-
gotten that regardless of all official asseverations
and official  recautions it is possible for a handful
of properly inspired and well-organized "petriots" to
upset the predictions of any political observer.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
800
GDA:C
Copy to l.bussy, leipinc;
Copy to bassy, oscow.
X

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
1-1336
FROM
FS
GRAY
Tokyo
Dated July 1,1936
Rec'd 1l a. m.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Sccrctary of State
JUL1-1936
COPIES SENT TO
894.00/659
Washington.
TO.N.I. ANDM I.D.
Department of State
145, July 1, 10 p. m.
Appeal of Aizawa against sentence of death has
been rejected by the highest court.
WWC:HPD
GREW
JUL·3 .1936
FILL
F

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.96)
01
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
JS
Gray
1-1886
FROM
TOKYO
Dated July 3, 1936
COPIES SENT TO
U.N.I. ANDM.I.D.
Rec'd 2:45 a.m.
Secretary of State,
894.00
Washington, D.C.
Divisiono
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
894.00/660
147, July 3, 1 p.m.
partment of State
Embassy's 145, July 1, 10 p m.
NICHT NICHI extra announces Aizawa was executed
this morning.
GREW
JS
JUL 6 1936
FILED

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.98)
56-1
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FS
GRAY
1—1836
FROM
Tokyo
Dated July 7,1936
Rec'd 1:25 a.m.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
COPIES SENT TO
L-1936
Washington.
O.N.I. ANDM. I,D.
149, July 7, noon.
894.00/66
874.00
657
Embassy's 140, June 24, 7 p. m.
One. lar Office announcement made at 2 o'clock this
morning states that of nineteen officers, seventy-five non-
commissoned officers, nineteen privates and ten civilians
indicted and tried for complicity in the February 26 inci-
dent the following have been sentenced: thirteen officers
and four civilians to death; five officers to life imprison-
ment; one officer, seventeen non-commissioned officers and six
civilians to imprisonment of from two to fifteen years;
to imprisonment of from eighteen months to two years but
with stay of execution for three years.
36
Two. The judgment states that sentences of death
and life imprisonment were pronounded upon certain officers
because they had employed the Imperial army without Imperial
sanction. Some of the non-commissioned officers and privates
were found to have participated knowingly in the incident
but

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.99)
5-2
FS
2-No. 149, July 7, noon from Tokyo
but the others were acquitted because they had only
obeyed the orders of their superior officers.
Three. The newspapers state that no appeal will
be granted. The time of execution of the death sentences
was not announced but the military criminal law provides
for execution by shooting within 5 days from confirmation
of the sentence by the Minister of War.
McL
GREW

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.98)
57-1
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FS
GRAY
1—1336
FROM
Tokyo
Dated July 13,1936
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIR
Rec'd 3:08 a. m.
JUL131936
Secretary of State,
Department of State
Washington.
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. ANDM. I. D.
154, Ju1y 13, 2 p. m.
894.00/662
Embassy's l49, July 7, noon.
War Office announcement six p. m., July 12, names
fifteen persons as executed July 12 for participation in
February 26 incident. These persons are the thirteen
officers and two of the four civilians whose death sentences
were announced July 7. The two remaining civilians are
presumably being held for evidence in further investiga-
tions. The press generallyapproves the executions and no
disturbances have been reported.
CSB
GREW
1L 14 1936
CETLA

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.98)
5-8-1
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
1—1336
FROM
FS
GRAY
Tokyo
Divi
Dated July 18,1936
Rec'd 2:44 a. m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. AND M. LD.
894.08
158, Ju1y 18, 11 a . m.
Tokyo martial law repealed by Imperial crdinance
effective today.
894.00/663
JS
GREW
JUL 20 1930
JUL-20 1936

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.97)
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATEN 1936
DIVISION OF
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Mr. Phillips.
NOTED
M. Secretary.
It is believed that you will be
interested in reading the statement attached
to the memorandum from the office of the
Assistant Chief of Staff for Military
Intelligence, Headquarters Hawaiian Depart-
ment, which indicates the attitude of mind
of many Japanese at this time. This
attitude is epitomized in the statement
"There was a time when Japan and her people
cared what America thought . . . . . now the
temper of the Japanese is so that they don't
care what anyone thinks and they are through
explaining. If the time comes to fight,
then Japan will fight, the odds be what they
may".
CRETARY
MMH/REK

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.93)
(COPI)
HEADQUARTERS HAWAIIAR DEP
Office of the Assistend
of Staff for Militery Intofri
Ie reply refer to
Fort Shafter, T. H.
SUBJECT: Interview with Japanese Consulate Generel.
Division Sf
FAR EASTERN AFFAIR
TO:
Washington, D. C.
Department of Stato
Inclosed herewith is a self-explanatory statement inicative of
changing attitude in part of the Japanese which is believed to be of
interest.
894.00/66
G. S. PATTON. Jr.
Lieut. Colonel. General Staff Corps.
A. C. of S., G-2.
1 Incl --
Copy of statement.
Copralrt
Eni
894.00
RESTRICTED

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.96)
mational advertlsing oampaigh, explaining hér problems, sto
af the intarviow developed from that one suggestion. Below. I
Ur. Teijiro Tamare almost verbatim:
Subjeet Speaking: "There was a time when Japan a be
that they don't eare what anyene thinks and they are throagh empldi
may. (Sat straight in chair and slapped desk.)  are going to pa
cur course as we see it. Several years ago when I was on daty i Chiaso
an American advortising agency with headquarters im.N. Y. ad efricea 
Chicago and San Francisco, approached me on an advertising campaigh Idea
to bulld good will. I thought it was a good idea and got the'JapAgs
ASSOCIATION to sponsor it. It may have done some good but now it would
"America is very difficult to got along with. It is oasiar to get
along with England. In Americe it is a democracy and anyone in any homae
may reise his voice in protest and the politicians listen and act even theugh
trade agreements have been made by Amerioan ambassadors. Right  on the
East Coast, a handful of manufacturers are shouting that the Japanese Import
to the United States of cotton goods is hurting business. The United States
Government can tell no lie and everyone believes what they say, yet the United
States Department of Commerce figures show that we buy far more in raw cotton
from the United States than is shipped back in piece goods. Our piece goods.
according to the United States figures are less then one half of one per oent
of all the goods sold in the United States. They all cry The Japanese are
ship ing in too much. They should be curtailed. What will happen?' The pol-
iticians will listen, and even though they know our exports to the United
States are low, they will further stifle us just to get votes.
"America and England say Japan cannot build but a few warships. We
will never be satisfied with their orders. Warships are instruments of war, not
peace. We have a small, isoluted nation. We must protect ourselves. President
Roosevelt is a navy man and his interests are there. He says that increases of
the Army and Navy in manpower and ships, make for peace. It does not. It makes
Ior war. The people of Japan read in the newspapers about the United States
building more ships. To fight against who? No one but Japan. The fleet comes
to Hawaii for naneuvers. .
.. practicing for war
no one else would be the logicul enemy but Japan.
"ndmiral Yarnel and General Drum are gentlemen but their interests re
military. Yarnell talks of increasing the defenses of Pearl Harbor. . . . . I
read in the newspapers about Kolekole Pass . . . . . that General Drum bolieves
ahu needs thet to expedite the movement of troops in case of emorgency. Both
of them have Japan in mind. They talk about possible trouble with alions. They
are talking about my nationels! They are suspicious of us. That is why the tem-
per o! the Japanese people is like it is. Everything is mimod at us. No more
do we care what Amorica or any other nation thinks of us. We are going to do
what necessity compels us to do:
"The United Statas kespe getting nearer to Japan. The fleat cèmes all
the wey nere tor meneuvers. Then the clipver ship has bases at Midway Wake
n:  a. How mch nearer to Jepen is America coming, my peonle esk. All of
this is what uukes the people of Japan nsrvous."
RESTRICTED

=== Page 222 === (confidence 1.00)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
August 5, 1936.
Tokyo's 1935 of July 8, 1936,
"Aftermath of the February 26 Incident":
This is a very useful and valuable
despatch, but it is somewhat too long and
the information contained in it might well
have been compressed.
Tre Embassy points out that the men
found guilty in connection with the
February 26 Incident were condemned not on
account of the assassinations but for
infraction of military discipline and for
use of the army without Imperial sanction.
The sentences were received by the press
and by the public favorably, one paper
remarking that "there is satisfaction and
relief that proper punishment has now been
meted out". The Embassy then proceeds to
examine the extent to which the "platform"
of the Hirota cabinet, which was called
into being on account of the Incident, has
been carried out. The platform, it is
reported, has been clarified by the setting
up of the following policies:
1) Increase of defensive
equipment;
2) Readjustment of taxation,
including a tax increase;
3)

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
3) Nationalization of electric
power;
4) Central control of fuel;
5) Extension of the term of
compulsory education;
6) Revision of the agricultural
village and land system.
With regard to defensive equipment,
it appears that a five-year scheme involving
the expenditure of two billion yen for the
improvement of the army, was later modified
to involve the expenditure of three billion
yen. It is not clear whether the latter
amount is to be expended over a period of
five years or over a period of ten years.
The problem of readjustment of taxation
is not of immediate interest to us.
With regard to nationalization of
electric power, a plan has been formulated
to set up one large company, to be controlled
by the government, which will absorb the
existing electric power companies. In
this connection press reports mention another
plan, which is that there is to be
organized an operating company which will
rent the power plants of the existing
companies and have a monopoly of the sale
of industrial power.
In

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 3 -
In connection with the control of fuel,
special emphasis is being laád on extraction
of oil by liquefaction of coal, manufacture
of synthetic gasoline, and the utilization
of substitute fuels, such as alcohol.
There is some discussion of the need
for reforming the administrative side of
the government; one plan put forward by
the army would call for the creation of an
independent ministry of air. There is also
talk of the creation of a ministry of health,
the army authorities being somewhat concerned
over the increasing number of young men
unfit for military duty.
A brief portion of the despatch is set
aside for a discussion of the foreign
policy of Mr. Hirota (see page 12) but it
is couched in somewhat vague language.
Perhaps one of the most interesting
portions of this despatch is that which
describes the effect of the Incident on the
commercial firms. Mitsui has replaced many
of its older principal officials with
younger men. They also announce that they
will give the public an opportunity to
acquire shares in Mitsui firms. Several of
the large financial houses state that they
will cooperate with the army in maintaining
the national defenses by operating aviation
and other similar enterprises without undue
regard

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 4 -
regard to the profit motive.
The despatch need not be read.
894.1.0/665
EHD/DLY

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, July 8, 1936.
No. 1935.
SUBJECT:
AFTERMATH OF THE FEBRUARY 26 INCIDENT.
994.
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. ANDM. I.D.
mc
S
S
894.00/665
S.
01
1
(5)
AD
0
LJ
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
Crfay in EE(381)
Liviston of
OF STATE
FAR  ARS
JUL 201936
OF STA
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sim:
3
With reference to the Embassy's despatches Nos. 1784,
651
dated June 12, 1936, all in regard to the development of
FILED
the situation resulting from the Incident of February 26,
181936
1936, I now have the honor to report the following further
developments.
Trial of the Officers, Privates and Civilians Involved
in the Incident.
As was reported to the Department briefly by telegram
661
(No. 149 July 7, noon), the War Office at 2 A.M. on July
7, 1936, announced that the special Tokyo Court Martial,
created to try all those persons, both military and civil,
who

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
who had participated in or instigated the Incident of
February 26, had on July 5, 1936, pronounced judgment upon
those indicted. The sentences included 17 death penalties,
13 imposed on officers of the Army and 4 on civilian insti-
gators; 5 sentences to life imprisonment, all imposed on
officers; and 54 prison sentences of from 18 months to 15
years, imposed on one officer, 44 non-commissioned officers,
3 privates, and 6 civilians. Thirty of the shorter prison
sentences, however, are only nominal, having been imposed
with stay of execution.
In imposing these sentences, according to the War of-
fice announcement, the Court Martial took into consideration
the purity of the motives of the young officers involved,
but could not release them from responsibility for having
infringed the Imperial Rescript on military discipline and
for having employed units of the Imperial Army without Im-
perial sanction. The non-commissioned officers who were
sentenced to imprisonment without stay of execution, were
found to have engaged deliberately in the insurrection, while
the non-commissioned officers and privates who were sentenced
with stay of execution (which means that they are placed on
probation) were found to have been forced into the insurrec-
tion against their wishes. The 47 non-commissioned officers
and privates who were acquitted were found to have simply
obeyed the orders of their superior officers without any
knowledge that they were engaging in an insurrection.
With the announcement of the judgment the War Office
issued

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
issued two statements, one of which gives the details of
the plot(the purpose of which was to renovate the nation
by removing certain representatives of the privileged
classes) and the other of which describes the motives of
1/
the insurgent troops. There are enclosed clippings from
the JAPAN ADVERTISER of July 8, 1936, giving details of
the judgment of the Court Martial and translations of the
other two statements. It will be observed that the motives
as discovered by the Court Martial agree very closely with
those found by the Embassy in conversations with Japanese
officials and others shortly after the Incident and reported
to the Department in previous despatches.
It is believed that the recent execution of Lieutenant
Colonel Saburo Aizawa for the murder of Lieutenant General
Nagata in August last, and the sentencing of the 13 officers
to death because of the February 26 Incident, create a pre-
cedent in Japan. As far as the Embassy is aware or able to
ascertain, no Army or Navy officer in the past has been
sentenced to death because of a patriotic assassination. The
execution of Aizawa and the sentencing of young officers,
therefore, indicate a realization on the part of the Army
authorities of the dangers involved in permitting ultra-
nationalists to instigate irresponsible persons to direct
action methods and shows a determination on the part of the
nation as a whole to do away with government by assassination.
It should be noted, however, that the judgment of the Court
Martial does not mention the assassinations and imposed the
sentences

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.99)
-4 -
sentences upon the participants in the uprising on the
grounds of infringement of the Imperial Rescript on military
discipline and utilization of the Imperial Army without Im-
perial sanction.
The sentences imposed by the Court Martial upon the
participants and instigators of the uprising of February 26
were received with unanimous approval by the local newspapers.
Following are a few excerpts from editorials, illustrating
this fact:
ASAHI, July 7.
"It is easy for the public to see the care which
the authorities took to deal with the case correct-
. From the attitude of the authorities
toward the case and the manner in which the people
regarded the handling of the case by the authorities,
it may not be too much to hope that great things
may come of the effort to settle the aftermath of
the incident and put a new face on the situation."
JAPAN TIMES AND MAIL, July 7.
"There is deep regret that the February tragedy
took place; there is satisfaction and relief that
proper punishment has now been meted out. .
Japan can and will breathe easily and with a light-
er conscience now than it has for some time past."
JIJI, July 8.
"The present sentences reflect a correct inter-
pretation by the Army of the national laws and will
certainly aid in putting the public mind at rest. It
is no exaggeration to say that public expectations
and reliance on the Army's determination to carry out
a thorough-going reform have increased considerably
as the result of the Court Martial."
HOCHI, July 8.
"Those involved in the uprising were undoubtedly
driven by ideals of patriotism and loyalty to the
Emperor, but their reckless abuse of the Imperial
troops and weapons in an attempt to upset the national
construction is absolutely unpardonable. . .
The present sentences will satisfy the Army and the
public."
NICHI

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
NICHI NICHI, July 8.
"When the Court's attitude toward the incident
is considered, one finds it impossible to be dis-
satisfied with the decision.
Post-Incident Policies.
It will be remembered that during the formation of the
Hirota Cabinet shortly after the Incident of February 26,
the Army was reported to have demanded of the new Cabinet
the adoption of certain basic policies as a price for the
Army's co-operation. These were reported to be, (1) clari-
fication of the national polity by rejection of the "Minobe
theory", (2) completion of national defense, (3) stabiliza-
tion of the livelihood of the people through economic and
social reforms, and (4) the adoption of a "positive" foreign
policy. After the formation of the Cabinet, Mr. Hirota on
various occasions announced his policies, which can be sum-
marized as follows: (1) clarification of the national polity
and upholding of constitutional Government, (2) perfection of
national defense, (3) strengthening of national finances
through the reform of taxation, renovation of the banking sys-
tem and the enhancement of the nation's economic strength,
(4) reform and unification of administrative organs and (5)
the adoption of a unified, independent and positive foreign
policy. However, in accordance with Mr. Hirota's announced
policy of "making haste slowly", the Hirota Cabinet has as
yet undertaken few concrete measures for the execution of the
above policies, and has consequently been subjected to consi-
derable criticism from the military, the newspapers and other
sources. Since the close of the recent Diet session, however,
Mr. Hirota has taken the problem of administrative and other
reforms

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
reforms in hand. It was announced some weeks ago that the
Cabinet would consider reform measures proposed by the
various Ministries at a series of meetings beginning July
10, and since that time the newspapers have published
pages of reform measures, allegedly emanating from the
Ministries concerned, to be placed before the Cabinet. It
is difficult to judge the truth in the welter of conjecture,
but DOMEI reported that Cabinet bureau chiefs had decided
to accept and consider the following "truly important" poli-
cies:
1. Increase of Defensive Equipment, submitted by the
War and Navy Ministries.
2.
Readjustment of taxation, including a tax increase,
submitted by the Finance Ministry.
3.
Nationalization of electric power, submitted by
the Communications Ministry.
4.
Centl control of fuel, submitted by the Commerce
and  dustry Ministry.
5.
Extension of the term of compulsory education, sub-
mitted by the Education Ministry.
6.
Revision of the agricultural village and land sys-
tem, submitted by the Agriculture and Forestry
Ministry.
(1). Increase of Defensive Equipment.
Shortly after the Incident, it was reported that the
Army's plan for completion of national defense involved the
expenditure of ¥2,000,000,000 over a period of five or six
years, causing an increase of annual expenditure of from
¥300,000,000 to ¥400,000,000. Later it was reported in the
newspapers that the Army defense scheme would cost ¥3,000,000,
ooo, which, spread over five years, would cause an increased
annual

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.99)
- 7 -
annual expenditure of ¥600,000,000. It now appears that
it has been decided that such an additional annual ex-
penditure would be too great for the finances of the coun-
try, and the HOCHI of July 9 stated that the ¥3,O00,000,000
five-year plan will be extended to a ten-year plan, thus
making the annual increase of expenditure only ¥300,000,000.
Details of the Army's plan are not available but it is believed
that a large part of the increased expenditure for the first
five years will be devoted to the strengthening of the Army's
air force and the increasing of the Japanese military forces
in Manchuria to approximately the same strength as that of
the Soviet Far Eastern army.
2. Readjustment of Taxation.
The complete plan of the Minister for Finance for the
readjustment of taxation has not been made public but
various newspapers have published alleged summaries of the
plan. From these it appears that the personal income, corpo-
ration income, business profits, capital interest, inheri-
tance, and extraordinary profit taxes will be raised, as
well as the various excise taxes. It is also proposed to
levy new taxes on articles of luxury, gasoline, matches,
wheat gluten and saccharine. It is reported in the newspapers
that the house taxes, the proceeds of which now go to the
prefectures, will be transferred to the central government
and that the Minister for Finance wishes to transfer to the
central treasury the profits made by the railways, post of-
fices, telephones and telegraphs, and to increase those
profits

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8 -
profits by raising the postal rates and railway fares.
It is also reported, however, that the Finance Minister
will encounter considerable objection in the execution of
the above plan. The prefectures and other local governmental
organs object to the appropriation by the central government
of the house tax, unless the central government will re-
imburse them in some way. It is also reported that the rail-
ways and communications organs object strenuously to the ap-
propriation of their entire profits, alleging that such ap-
propriation will mean deterioration of their services and
that, moreover, the welfare of the employees of these organs
should be considered before appropriating all profits for
the central government's use.
3. Nationalization of Electric Power.
The Minister for Communications has a plan (which is
meeting with considerable opposition from the capitalists)
for the nationalization of all existing and propsective electric
power plants. The plan contemplates the formation of a large
company, which will be controlled by the Government, and the
amalgamation into this company of all the existing electric
power companies. The purpose of the plan is to effect econo-
mies in electrical generation and transmission, to provide
abundant and cheap electrical power for the industries of
Japan, to assist national defense by developing industries,
and to promote the welfare of the rural districts by supply-
ing them with cheap electrical power for local industries.
4. Central Control of Fuel.
The Minister for Commerce and Industry, it is reported,
plans

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.99)
- 9 -
plans the organization of a strong, independent central
bureau to develop an effective fuel policy. This bureau
would be composed of officials of the Ministry of Commerce
and Industry but also would have as advisers high officials
of the Departments of War, Navy, and Finance. The bureau
would have jurisdiction over all matters pertaining to fuel,
with especial emphasis on liquefaction of coal, the manu-
facture of synthetic gasoline and the utilization of substi-
tute fuels such as alcohol. The basic aim is to achieve
self-sufficiency in liquid fuels, but, as the oil resources
of the nation will not permit this, the bureau is to encourage
the liquefaction of coal and the manufacture of alcohol. It
is planned that it will be made compulsory by law to mix al-
cohol with gasoline at the rate of 30% alcohol and 70% gaso-
line. To obtain funds for the purpose of subsidizing the
undertakings mentioned above it is proposed to increase the
import duty on gasoline. The bureau would also supervise
and encourage the development of oil resources at home and
abroad.
It is reported that the defense ministries approve this
plan in view of the need for a more effective national fuel
policy and that the plan is supported particularly by the
Navy.
5. Extension of the Term of Compulsory Education.
The Minister for Education, it is reported, has a plan
for the extension of the period for compulsory education
from the present six years to eight years, with the purpose
of

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.99)
- 10 -
of increasing the general education and the resultant effi-
ciency of the people, and also to provide more time for the
inculcation of correct ideas of the national polity. The
plan is meeting with some opposition, particularly from the
Minister for Finance, on the ground that national finances
at the present time will not permit the additional expendi-
ture required.
6. Revision of the Agricultural Village and Land System.
No announcement has yet been made of this plan but from
various speeches made by the Minister for Agriculture and
Forestry, it is assumed that the plan envisages measures to
improve agricultural management, to promote rural small-scale
industries, to minimize the effect of national calamities,
and to improve generally the economic status of the farm-
ing communities.
It is probable that, after deliberation of these and
other plans by the Cabinet has commenced, more detailed and
accurate information in regard to the schemes will be pub-
lished in the newspapers. The Embassy will watch the develop-
ments carefully and will report the outcome in regard to each
of the schemes by separate despatch.
Administrative Reform.
It is reported in the press that the Prime Minister,
Mr. Hirota, is very enthusiatic in regard to reforms in the
administrative organization of the Government. He has
found, however, that there are so many conflicting ideas as
to the reforms necessary, that he has decided, for the present
at least, not to take any action. As was previously reported,
the

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.99)
- 11 -
the War Office has a plan for a Minister without portfolio
to act as Vice-Premier and chief of the Cabinet Investiga-
tion Bureau. The purpose of this plan is to coordinate re-
form measures and to avoid the separation of the spheres of
influence of the various Ministries. The ASAHI of June 19
reported that Mr. Hirota had agreed to this plan, but later
reports have stated that the Cabinet as a whole does not
favor the scheme.
The Army also has a plan for the creation of a Ministry
of Air, for the encouragement and promotion of civilian avia-
tion. The Army, it is reported, is very anxious to see this
plan materialize and is expected to press the other Ministries
concerned for its adoption. A third plan of the Army contem-
plates the creation of a Ministry of Health, for the purpose
of promoting the welfare of laborers, the general maintenance
of health among the populace, and physical training for the
youth of the nation. It is believed that the Army's enthusiasm
for this plan is based on the fact that, during the recent
examination of young men for conscription in the Army, there
an
was /unusually large percentage of those rejected for reasons
of health. The newspapers reported that 400 per 1000 of the
young men were rejected and that it was discovered that 24
per lo00 have tuberculosis.
Schemes have also been advanced for the merging of various
Ministries in order to unify and coordinate governmental af-
fairs, but it is not believed that the Cabinet will take any
action on these plans for some time to come.
Post-

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.99)
- 12 -
Post-Incident Foreign Policy.
The ASAHI reported on June 19, 1936, that, as envy
and suspicion had been aroused among the Powers by Japan's
national advance, and as the improvement of the international
position of the Soviet Union and the propaganda of that
Power had increased the misunderstanding of Japan among the
nations, the following plans would be adopted on the basis
of the "independent and positive" foreign policy of Mr.
Hirota: (1) the readjustment of relations between Japan and
China and Japan and the Soviet Union, on the basis of the
inseparable relations between Japan and "Manchukuo" and the
recognition of Japan as the stabilizinginfluence in the
Far East; (2) the expansion of trade diplomacy, on the
basis of free trade and reduction of tariff walls; and (3)
revision of the organization of the Foreign Office.
On June 23, 1936, DOMEI reported that, at a conference
of Foreign Office staff members, it was decided that, in ac-
cordance with Mr. Hirota's plan for an independent, positive
foreign policy, the following should form the basis of Japan's
diplomacy: (1) maintenance and development of the right to
racial existence through establishment of a continental
policy centering on China and Soviet Russia; (2) strengthening
of the nation's commercial policy in order to cope with the
worldwide tendency to restrict imports of Japanese goods.
Effect of the Incident on Commercial Firms.
A somewhat peculiar result of the February 26 Incident
lies in the effect which it has had upon the great financial
and

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.99)
- 13 -
and commercial houses, especially the Mitsui, Mitsubishi,
and Sumitomo interests. Evidently realizing from this
incident, as well as that of May 15, 1932, that there existed
a strong antipathy against the great financial houses among
the military and the people as a whole, these interests have
apparently agreed upon a concerted line of action to meet
the situation. As a first step, they retired some of the
older and leading figures in their organizations, substitut-
ing for them younger men, who, it apparently is hoped, will
be more in step with the times. As a second step, they an-
nounced that, instead of monopolizing the shares of some of
their profit-making subsidiary concerns, they would sell a
portion of these shares to the public. These steps were
obviously taken for the purpose of conciliating the general
public, principally by removing the control of the interests
from the hands of a few men, and by allowing the public to
participate in the profits of their enterprises.
Later the financial houses took a third step, apparent-
ly intended to conciliate the military. This took the form
of an announcement that they would in the future use a part
of their capital in state defense projects, disregarding
the question of profits on their investments. Thus they
stated that they would give financial aid, regardless of pro-
fit, to private airplane manufacturing companies or civil
aviation companies, with the view of assisting the Govern-
ment, and especially the Army, in developing civil aviation
in Japan. It has also been renorted in the newspapers that
the Mitsui interests have appropriated Yen 2,000,000 as a
preliminary

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.98)
- 14 -
preliminary expenditure in embarking upon an automobile
manufacturing enterprise. This enterprise, it is hoped,
will produce 5,ooo cars per annum at first, with a goal
of 10,000 cars per annum later. The concern is to be
established with no intention of gaining a profit but solely
to assist in the national defense program, according to the
press, and is a part of the Mitsui plan of utilizing its
vast resources for the materialization of national policies.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
EncloSure:
1/ Clipping from the JAPAN ADVE TISER, July 8,1936.
800.
ERD:g
Copy to Embassy, Moscow
n
n
n
Peiping

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.99)
nuertiser
ACCURATE
IMPARTIAL
in News
8
Price 15 Sen
CICIARY 17 INCIDENT REBELS TO DIE;
ABINET;
DETAILS REVEALED OF PLOT
ONS SET
AND MANNER OF EXECUTION
stice Mini-
Decision to Employ
Aizawa's Ashes Taken
Death Sentences Given
Increases
To Temple in Sendai
staffs
Troops Reached by Lead-
For Burial by Widow
to 13 Former Offic-
ers February 18
ers, 4 Civilians
DEFERRED
The ashes of Saburo Alzawa. for-
m'r army lieutenant-colonel who
was executed July 3 for killing
Meet Mon-
YOUNGER
MEN
INDUCED
Lieutenant-General Tetsuzan Nagata
5 IMPRISONED FOR LIFE
at the War Office last year, were
Next Week
taken to Sendai, his native city, yes-
ceedings
Set of Demands Drafted for
four others for burial at the Jukoku
terday by Mrs. Yoneko Alzawa and
44 Non-Commissioned Officers
Tmple. A small group of friends
Presentation to War Minister
was present at Ueno Station when
Receive Terms Ranging
THEARING
Regarding Solution
he morning, Domei reports.
the party departed at 10 o'clock in
From 2 to 15 Years
ation of new
MOTIVES OF REBELS
abinet yester-
ASSIGNMENTS ENUMERATED
ALL BUT 3 PRIVATES FREE
nd of a series
xamination of
formulated by
The plans of the participants in
GIVEN IN STATEMENT
Thirteen former army officers and
9
s, decided to
the February 26 incident are dis-
four civilians were sentenced to death
next week.
closed for the first time in detail in
Sunday by the Tokyo Court Martial
day. in addi-
a statement issued by the War Office
for participation in the February 26
cheduled Tues-
simultaneously with the announce-
Desire Held to Clarify Polity,
uprising, the War Office disclosed in
the three days
ment of the sentences imposed on
Replenish Defense, Stabi-
a statement issued at 2 o'clock yes-
the morning
'clock.
them by the Tokyo Court-Martial.
The statement follows:
lize Living
terday morning.
Fifty-nine others received prison
the official re-
"When it was reported last Decem-
sentences ranging from life to two
received its
policies when
ber that the forees of the First Divi-
KITA'S
IDEAS
EMBRACED
years. A total of 123 had been in-
dicted of whom 47 were acquitted.
buro Hayashi
an increase in
sion would be dispatched shortly to
Manchuria and seeing the necessity
Mysterious Documents Circulat-
sentenced to life imprisonment, and
Five other former officers were
judicial off-
the object of
dure.
ducation Min-
and Yasuhide Kurihara immediately
of taking action before they left To-
kyo, Koji Muranaka, Asaichi Isobe
began preparations with Kiyosada
ed to Recruit Sympathizers
Since 1933
a four-year term. Of the remainder
one officer on the active list received
of the 10 civilians indicted for parti-
e educational
cipating in the incident, five were
sion of the
Koda and Zensuke Shibukawa.
The leaders in the February 26 inci-
sentenced to 15 years in prison and
ducation from
ich had been
on to the ses-
trial of the Aizawa case. they pro-
"By taking advantage of the public
dent had as long ago as 1932 embraced
the idea that they would be ju-tified
the others to 10 years.
Of the 73 former non-commissioned
ld over until
pagated the spirit of Lieutenant-
in resorting to illegal action to achieve
officers and two non-commissioned
ys.
Colonel Saburo Aizawa's motive and
their triple aim of clarification of the
officers in active service who had
pproved
also references to the corrupted con-
national polity. replenishment of na-
been indicted, 31 were acquitted and
t the meeting
ditions of the specially privileged
tio:al defense and stabilization of na-
the remaining 44 received sentences
for the estab-
class in order to draw the attention
tional life. according to a statement on
ranging from two to 15 years in pri-
-official South
pany and the
al commission
e of prepara-
ill be started
im of having
ration by Jan-
after holding meetings for a number
of society and to steel the determina-
tion of their confreres.
ed for carrying out the restoration,
they decided to take action shortly
"Thinking the opportunity had arriv-
Action Decided
ed for introducing to the army par-
by the War Office. To recruit sym-
the motives of the participants issued
athizers, moreover, they had been
active since 1933.
"ultra-patriotic complexion." are blam-
tsugu Nishida, described as men of
Two civilians. Terujiro Kita and Mi-
son, some with stays of execution.
whom 16 were acquitted. The other
three were given prison sentences
ranging from 18 to 24 months with
stays of execution.
Nineteen privates were indicted, of
Two other former officers who par-
meeting Pre-
d In audience
of times at severel places. while main-
taining close contact with Captain
Ichitaro Yamaguchi. Terujiro Kita, Zei
ticipants the ideus that led eventualy
to the incident.
The statement on the motives fol-
ticipated committed suiclde immedia-
Participants' Ranks Given
Palace at 2:30
on and was
orted on gen-
Nishida and Tetsuya Kamekawa on
important matters
"In order to decide on a concrete
(civilians). Teruzo Ando. Kiyosada
lows:
"Koji
Muranaka,
Asaichi Isoh
nouncement, those participating in the
incident included one officer, 20 former
According to the War Office an-
and the dis-
ing's Cabinet
Palace at 3:30
nal policy for-
er Captain Hisashi Kono met at the
home of Yasuhide Kurihara on the
night of February 18. After planning
plan. Muranaka. Isobe, Yasuhide Kuri-
hara. Teruzo Ando and the late form-
cern at the degeneration of the people
shima and Motoaki Nakabashi (former
officers) had long been expressing con-
and the light-mindedness of the mas-
Koda. Yasuhide Kurihara. Katsuo Tsu-
officers, three medical officers, 89
former non-commissioned officers, two
other non-commissioned officers, 1,358
privates and 10 civilians.
The following 13 former army officers
will be given
rogram drawn
major political
the places to be attacked. methods to
action. it was decided to move part of
be used and the time to carry out the
ses and anxiety about the future of
the country. They were stimulated
further by the opinions that gradually
Koda, infantry captain, Teruzo Ando,
were sentenced to death: Kiyosada
infantry captain. and Yasuhide Kuri-
pent way from
ms drafted by
try Regiment of the Imperial Body-
the troops belonging to the 3rd Infan-
of the London naval treaty in 1930
gained ground following the signing
gio Takeshima, infantry lieutenant;
hara, lieutenant, the ringleaders; Tsu-
Katsuo Tsushima, infantry lieutenant;

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.99)
class in order to draw the attention
tional life. according to a statement on
ranging from two to 15
 South
of society and to steel the determina-
by the War Office. To recruit sym-
the motives of the participants issued
son, some with stays of
tion of their confreres.
athizers, moreover, they had been
Ninsteen privates wéré; ind
Action Decided
active since 1933.
whom 16 were acquitted. The
"Thinking the opportunity had arriv-
Two civilians, Terujiro Kita and Mi-
three were given prison 
ed for carrying out the restoration,
tsugu Nishida, described as men of
ranging from 18 to 24 months
baving
they decided to take action shortly
"ultra-patriotic complexion," are blam-
stays of execution.
after holding meetings for a number
ed for introducing to the army par-
Two other former officers who
ticipants the idess that led-eventually
dee contact with Captain
to the incident
Ihitaro Yamaguchi, Terujiro Kita, Zei
The statement on the motives fol-
Nishida and Tetsuya Kamekawa on
lows:
important mattera.
"Koji
Muranaka,
Asaichi Lsobe
"In order to decide on a concrete
(civilians), Teruzo Ando, Kiyosada
lace at 3:30
and the dis-
Cabinet
er Captain Hisashi Kono met at the
hara, Teruzo Ando and the late form-
plan, Muranaka, Isobe, Yasuhide Kuri-
shima and Motoaki Nakabashi (former
Koda, Yasuhide Kurihara, Katsuo Tsu-
officers) had long been expressing con-
former non-commimsioned
officers, three medical
other non-commissioned
ill be given
policy for-
home of Yasuhide Kurihara on the
night of February 18. After planning
the places to be attacked, methods to
cern at the degeneration of the people
ses and anxiety about the future of
and the light-mindedness of the mas-
were sentenced to death: Kiyosada
privates and 10 civilians.
The following 13 former army offeers
gram drewn
be used and the time to carry out the
the country. They were stifmulated
Koda, infantry captain, Teruso Ando,
ajor political
action, it was decided to move part of
further by the opinions that gradually
infantry captain, and Yasuhide Kuri-
drafted by
way from
try Regiment of the Imperial Body-
the troops belonging to the 3rd Infan-
of the London naval treaty in 1930
gained ground following the signing
gio Takeshima, infantry lieutenant;
hara, lieutenant, the ringleaders; Tu-
meetings but
rukai will not
drawn up by
ommittees of
Cabinet.
imada, repre-
written form,
the Minseito
Hirota by
and Fore-
Keikichi
guards, the 1st and 3rd Regimerts of
subjects close to the Emperor in To-
kyo, to attack and kill Count Nobuaki
Makino by the hands of a squad led by
Hisashi Kono and to have confreres liv-
his villa in Okitsu. It was also decid-
ed to carry out the plot during the
the 1st Division to attack and kill those
ing in the city of Toyohashi attack
and kill Prince Kimmochi Saionji at
went to Toyohashi on February 19 to
following week. Asaichi Isobe then
and the Manchurian incident in 1931
and by the desire of some sections of
moreover, were so tense that they
the Manchurian incident. The situa-
could not observe them in silence.
the army for fundamental solution of
tion at home and that faced abroad.
sures for development of national for-
tunes by enhancing the national spirit.
when the country must devise mea-
"They thought the time had arrived
Intentions Sincere
Katsuo Tsushima, infantry lieutenant;
shi Sakai, infantry lieutenant; Masaru
lieutenant, and Hachiro Hayashi, in-
Motoaki Nakahashi, infantry lieutenant;
kashima, engineering sublieutenant;
Masaru Yasuda, artillery sub-lieute-
Seichu Nibu, infantry lieutenant; Nao-
Tanaka, artillery lieutenant; Kanji Na-
nant; Taro Takahashi, infantry sub-
fantry sub-lieutenant.
were: Koji Muranaka and Asaichi
The civilians sentenced to death
ught
tell Katsuo Tsushima about the pre-
replenishing national defense measures
Isobe, designated as ringleaders, and
expected to
parations made in Tokyo and arranged
and armaments and stabilizing the na-
Zensuke Shibukawa and Genichi Mi-
Cabinet Le-
with him for the killing of Prince Sai-
tional life.
They came to break
zukami, who either participated in the
Resources Bu-
onji.
through the situation. They mean-
plot or in directing crowds.
arged by War
er deliberation
steps for the
tional defense
chi at coming
he Government
same circles
lieving that the
lization of the
onal livelihood
ve nothing to
ng to formulate
linate the par-
are "attaching
evoted to avia-
ding to Domei.
of the Min-
ate control of
stry and mea-
of general ad-
o reveals that
respected "in-
-scale emigra-
The wishes of
is anticipated.
new national
new Gov-
former Captain Kono gathered again
at the home of Kurihara to arrange
naka. Isobe, Kurihara and the late
decided to carry out the planned at-
acks simultaneously at 5 o'clock on
the morning of February 26.
Premier Keisuke Okada. Finance Min-
onji, they decided to prevent subjects
the date. time and assignments and
Saito, Grand Chamberlain Kantaro
Suzuki, Count Makino and Prince Sai-
perial Palace at the Sakashita Gate.
pend its functions and also to occupy
ister Korekiyo Takahashi, Lord Keep-
er of the Privy Seal Viscount Makoto
close to the Emperor regarded as trea-
the Metropolitan Police Board to sus-
yosada Koda were to demand of the
cherous. from proceeding to the Im-
At the same time, they decided to seize
the War Ministry and the General
Staff Office. Muranaka, Isobe and Ki-
War Minister an appropriate disposal
to remedy the situation.
"On the night of February 22. Mura-
"If they succeeded in the killing of
"On February 23. Kurihara went to
Further Plans Made
while engaged in military education
came acquainted with the conditions
of destitution in the farming and
and through their subordinates be-
fishing villages and the impoverish-
industrial enterprises. They sympa-
ment of the smaller commercial and
to defend the country's first line. and
thought that they were to be pitied.
former captain in the army, Captain
yoshi Ogishi, who held the same views.
In the meantime, they developed
to the sound ideas held by the rank
and file of the army and the navy, they
Saburo Suganami and Captain Yori-
friendship with Terujiro Kita and Mi-
tsugu Nishida. men of ultra-patriotic
complexion. and because of their ideo-
logy found in them bosom friends
bold nature of its sentences. They
erred in passing judgment on the ideas
thized with these privates, who were
came to associate with Eiichi Okura,
Though Kita's book, Outline of a Draft
for Reconstruction of Japan. was de-
trimental to the national structure, they
were dazzled and influenced by the
"Finding that their ideas ran counter
tenced to four years in prison is In-
fantry Sub-Lieutenant Yoshimichi Ima-
infantry sub-lieutenants, were senten-
lows: Tokisan Ujino, sergeant, 15 years;
years, Akio Oe, sergeant-major, eight
sergeant-major, four years; Ichiro
izumi.
ced to life imprisonment: Kiyonari Mu-
giya, Minoru Tokiwa, Kinjiro Suzuki,
years; Kenjiro Oshima, sergeant-
sergeant, five years; Hiroshi Kitajima,
corporal, five years; Risaburo Tateishi,
years; Nakakichi Maeda, sergeant, three
years; Takeshi Hayashi, corporal, three
Kohei Kiyohara and Toshihiko Ikeda.
infantry men, were sentenced as fol-
Hajime Nagase, corporal, 13 years; Sei-
saku Watanabe, sergeant-major, eight
major, seven years; Masao Hiruda,
sergeant, seven years; Ginji Aoki, ser-
geant, seven years; Takejiro Ohara,
Saito, special sergeant-major, three
years; Tsuyu Nagata, sergeant-major,
two years; Kiichi Dogome, sergeant-
The following five former officers, all
The officer in active service sen-
Former non-commissioned officers all
Other Terms 2 to 15 Years
at the same
lothing,
one knew what
reful attitude
inally a cable
e puzzled by
was impossible
Foot Size
bi socks neces-
ly came back.
ong. It was de-
d seven inches
ed the shoe.
 to be taken.
and kimono.
and colored
in case that
ation of the
municipal
the achievement of the plan as an out-
sider. On the same night, Muranaka,
former Captain Shiro Nonaka gathered
at the 3rd Infantry Regiment and de-
Education, General Jotaro Watanabe.
after attacking the home of the Lord
Keeper of the Privy Seal, Viscount
had been decided on and to make
the same day, as a result of consulting
with Muranaka and Isobe. decided to
find out the whereabouts of Count
Makino, who was recuperating at the
town of Yugawara, in Kanagawa Pre-
fecture, and to help the defendants in
Isobe, Koda. Teruzo Ando and the late
cided to attack the home of and to
kill the Inspector-General of Military
Saito.
naka. Isobe. Yasu Kurihara. Koda
and the late former Captain Nonaka
gathered at the 1st Infantry Regiment
and decided to assign Muranaka, Iso-
Toyohashi to convey to Katsuo Tsu-
shima and Tsuguo Takeshima what
who learned about the said plans on
arrangements.
"On the night of February 24. Mura-
(Continued on Page 2)
Zensuke Shibukawa,
hood case and the May 15 (1832) in.
cident in Tokyo further stimulated
rogatives of the Supreme Command.
secret association for the exchange of
views. and various measures, includ-
them. and they determined to renovate
the nation. They decided not to deter
in doing so, from resort to illegal steps
Thus these former army officers came
to harbor the dangerous thought which
in the cnd proved to be a violation of
ing the distribution of "mysterious
documents" were devised and carried
out. They did this solely to recruit
sympathizers. In some sections of the
army. meanwhile, men imbued the
minds of subordinates with their ideas.
based on dogmatic assumptions, while
engaged in military education.
of these men.
the fundamental principles of the pre-
one time studied in the Military Aca-
most of the officers mentioned before
demy. developed deep friendship with
his retirement from the academy and
"The outbreak of the Blood Brother-
"Zensuke Shibukawa. who had at
"From 1933, these compatriots were in
major, two years; Masao Arata, ser-
geant, two years, and Hanakichi Idaka,
officers received sentences of two
Kamiya, sergeant-majors; Masaharu
Izawa, Hisao Toyohara, Chozaburo
years' imprisonment with three-year
stays of execution: Yuzaburo Kuwa-
bara, Wakao Fukuhara and Kitsuru
Kadowaki, Kiyoshi Nakamura, Kumeji
suo Kubokawa, Kanichi Fujikura, Ki-
yoyasu Yamamoto, Minoru Kanda,
Korehei Arai and Ushizo Omori. all
Arai, Harukichi Watanabe, Nobuo
Okuyama and the Masayoshi Kogawa.
all former sergeants. and Masuji Ka-
jima, Masayoshi Kibe, Sakuzo Oki and
Masao Yamada, all former corporals.
prison with three-year stays of execu-
tion were Seichi Hori and Kumeji
Tajima, former sergeant-majors; Ya-
former sergeants, and Ichiro Uchida,
two years.
Iwao Maru and Rimoto Fukushima,
former corporals.
The following
Sentenced to one and a half years in
Among the privates, Yohei Naka-
former
infantry
came to find in them bosom friends
with whom he shared the same views.
They arrived at the conclusion that
the authorities concerned lacked ap-
propriate measures to cope with the
situation, that Japan's domestic and
foreign policies were deadlocked. that
the political parties were thinking only
of their own interests and ignoring the
danger in which the country was plac-
ed and that the so-called financial cli-
que was slighting the straitened cir-
cumstances of the people.
"They also were of the opinion that
the prerogatives of the Supreme Com-
mand had been violated when the
London naval treaty was concluded.
They attributed this state of affairs to
insincerity on the part of the states-
men close to the Throne (jushin), the
bureaucrats. the military clique. the

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.98)
to be taken.
in case that
the shod.
Keeper of the Privy Seal. Viacount
after attacking the home of the Lord
Salto.
army. meanwhile. men imbued the
minds of subordinates with their ideas.
based on dogmatic assumptions, while
Tajima. former mergeant-
"On the night of February 24. Mura-
enzaged in military education.
yoyasu Yamamoto, Miaera
and kimono.
naka. Lsobe. Yasu Kurihara. Koda
"Zensuke Shibukawa. who had at
Xorehei Arai and Ushiee Cime
and colored
and the late former Captain Nonaka
one time studied in the Military Aca-
aten of the
sathered at the lst Infantry Regiment
demy. developed deep friendship with
Iwao Maru and Rimote Puk
municipal
and decided to assign Muranaka, Iso-
most of the offcers mantioned before
fermer corporals.
his retirement from the academy and
Among the privates, Yokeel
came to find in them bosom friends
with whom he shared the same views.
They arrived at the conclusion that
the authorities concerned lacked ap-
propriate measures to cope with the
situation, that Japan's domestic and
foreign policies were deadlocked, that
the political parties were thinking only
of their own interests and ignoring the
danger in which the country was plac-
ed and that the so-called financial cli-
que was slighting the straitened cir-
cumstances of the people.
"They also were of the opinion that
the prerogatives of the Supreme Com-
mand had been violated when the
London naval treaty was concluded.
They attributed this state of affairs to
insincerity on the part of the states-
men close to the Throne (jushin), the
bureaucrats. the military clique. the
political parties and the financial cli-
que toward the principles of the na-
tional structure. They thought that to
give lustre to the real nature of the
Japanese Constitution. which provides
for unbroken rule throughout the
ages. it was necessary to renovate the
nation by striking at the so-called pri-
vileged classes.
Encouragement Given
"Their sentiments were stimulated
further when. in 1934. Koji Muranaka
and Asaichi Isobe were dismissed from
military service on the charge of hav-
ing distributed 'mysterious documents.'
When their siperior officers intended
to suppress their movement. the re-
action was great. This tended to en-
courage the movement. Still further
encouragement was given by the clari-
fication of the national polity in con-
nection with the co"stitutional theory
of the Emperor.
"When the Inspector-General of Mili-
tary Elucation (General Jinzaburo
Mazaki) was transfer: ed. they listened
to an i: flammatory :uggestion made in
a certain quarter of the public and
concluded that the Supreme Command
had been violated. Their indignation
at this neared the breaking poit.
They were further move! by Lieute-
nant-C lon:l Aizawa's assassination of
Lieutenant-Gene al Tetsuzan Nagata.
the: dire tor of the military affairs
bureau of the War Office. They came
to the conclusion that behind the vio-
lation of the prerogative of the Su-
preme Command were the bloe of se-
rior statesmen and the financial clique.
They had the idea that the senior
statesmen were responsible especially
for th violation of the Supreme Com-
mand since the conclusion of the Lon-
don nava! treaty.
"They thought that these men exist-
ed above the national Constitution and
that to str:ke at them by lega! means
would serve no purpose in gaining
their obji etive. To strike at the senior
statesmen, they concluded, it would be
necessary to transcend the Constitution
anl use part of the Army in direct
action. They thought this a popular
way to cop with the existing emer-
gency. By so acting. they planned to
clarify the national polity. replenish
national defense and stabilize national
living. They intended in this manner
to urge high elements in the army to
bring about the Showa Restoration.
"Tsuguo Takeshima, Seichu Nibu,
Naoshi Sakài. Hachiro Hayashi. Masaru
Tanaka. Kanji Nakajima. Masaru Ya-
suda. Taro Takahshi. Minoru Tokiwa.
Toshihiko Ikeda (former officers) and
Mata Yamamoto (civilian) also arrived
at the conclusion that the situation in
Japan ran counter to the principles of
the national structure. They had long
felt the necessity for elimination of the
so-calle! privileged classes and for
urging realization of the Showa Res-
toration. From 1933. they were influ-
enced by the ideas of Koji Muranaka
and others, association with whom led
to their recognition of the righteous-
ness of direct action."
onsmour Maating

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.98)
jims, superior private and Keiji Tsu-
kami, Kiyomatsu Tsuchii, Yoshiro Shi-
boi, first-clams private. were sentenced
mizu and Kiyomatau Odate. and Denzo
kuni Shrime and then preseeded 
to two years in prison with three-year
Matsuo, private secretary to the Pre-
stays of executions, and Otokichi Ku-
mier, were killed. the latter being mis-
finally arrived at the official residenes
ratomo, superior private, a year and a
taken for the Premier. They thus fail-
of the War Minister abost 5 e'elesk.
half imprisonment with a two-year
ed to dispatch the Premier.
Receiving orders from Laobe, he took
stay of execution.
Takahashi Killed
a touring car and a truck with two
Civilians mentenced to 15 years each
men and went to the front of the Ake-
are Akiro Miyata. Seiji Nakajima. Wa-
"Motoaki Nakahashi and Kanji Na-
saka Detached Palace to carry the
taru Kuroda. Shoso Watabilai and
kajima were assigned to attack the re-
squad under the command of Taro Ta-
Kakuichi Kurosawa. while the 10th,
sidence of Finance Minister Korekiyo
kahashi and Masaru Yasuda to attack
communique explained. the authorities
Mata Yamamoto. got 10 years.
In fixing the sentences. the army
of February 25. about 120 non-com-
Takahashi and kill him. On the night
the home of the Inspector-General of
Military Education, General Watanabe.
He provided a touring car and two
Coled
recognized the righteousness, to some
missioned officers and privates of the
trucks for Yasuhide Kurihara, Toshi-
peaition
extent. of the motives which led the
report. They were found to have
moved mainly because of ind:gnation
officers to act, according to the Domei
7th Company of the 3rd Infantry Re-
giment of the Imperial Bodyguards
defending and reserve squad and the
were divided into two units, one as a
Kanji Nakajima, who proceeded to
hiko Ikeda. Motoaki Nakabasni and
attack the Tokyo Asahi at about 9
o'clock.
thetr
ence of
to its
over prevailing conditions in the ne-
other as the attacking squad. The
Ambl Attacked
Liesen to
tion, and that indignation was caused
former was led by Sub-Lieutenant
Yasuhide Kurihara, Toshihiko Ikeda.
decided
principally by patriotic sentiments. but
Yoshimichi Imaizumi, and the latter
Motoaki Nakahashi and Kanji Naka-
their ford
they could not escape responsibility
was assigned to take charge of the
for having disobeyed the Imperial Re-
killing of Finance Minister Takahashi.
jima. in command of about 50 privates
ing. Up
script on army discipline, in diswegard
About 3 o'clock the following morn-
and non-commissioned officers, at-
Muranaki
of their roles as subjects of the Em-
ing. Motoaki Nakahashi and Kanji
tacked the plant of the Tokyo Asahi
martial-
peror, and for having made use of the
Nakajima appeared in the room wherc
Shimbun about 9 o'clock on the morn-
an interv
Imperial army. which must not be
moved exc(pt by Imperial order, the
barracks and conveyed to him that
Yoshimichi Imaizumi lodged in the
ing of February 26, causing damage to
Kashii,
xplai.ation stated.
they were ready to proceed to kill
suspended the publication of the paper
staff, and
Those among the non-commissioned
Finance Minister Takahashi for the
temporarily. Then they went to the
ment of
officers and privates who were found
purpose of carrying out the Showa
Tokyo Nichi Nichi. Jiji Shimpo, Ko-
explaiced
guilty were convicted because they
Restoration, persuading him to act
kumin Shimbun, Hochi Shimbun and
forces and
vuluntarily took up arms and rose in
with them. He, however. avoided a
the Nippon Dempo News Agency,
quarters
rebellion in groups. besides taking an
definite reply. Motoaki Nakahashi
where copies of the 'rising propectus'
tion in the
active part in the preparations for the
then told him that he could be free
were distributed, demanding the pub-
a clash
revolt. Some received probation.
to act with them or not. leaving word,
lication of the text in their respective
the garrim
however. in recognition of the fact
however. that he should lead the de-
papers. and then returned to the
tions frow
that they acted against their wishes.
fending and reserve squad as previous-
Premier's official residence.
cerning th
forced by the power of circumstances.
ly arranged. Imaizumi then decided
"Zensuke Shibukawa proceeded to
Murnaka,
but obeyed the orders of their su-
to act with Motoaki Nakahashi on the
Yugawara. Kanagawa prefecture, on
sultation
priors in accordance with the pre-
ground that nothing could be helped
February 23 to ascertain the presence
Nonaka an
copts of th ir training and have since
that had happened.
of Count Makino and returned to To-
the memb
given eviderce of repentance.
About 4:30 o'clock. Nakahashi con-
kyo. After the outbreak of the inci-
Council
As for the rest of the participating
ducted an emergency roll-call. Then
dent. Shibukawa. with the purpose of
residence
mu:ique concluded.
private. they were aequitted because
they acted on the convict.on that the
orders of their superiors should be
obeyed unconditionally, the com-
he led bout 120 non-commissioned of-
ficers and privates out of the barracks
on the pretext that they were going
to visit the Meiji Shrine. Taking com-
mand of the attacking squad. he at-
tacked the Finance Minister's private
fectural Agrarian Young Men's Fed-
aiding his comrades to accomplish their
aims. decided in conjunction with Te-
ruo Nakahashi to instigate Seijuro Ha-
sebe. president of the Yamagata Pre-
eration. and others with whom he had
monished
nel Kofuji.
made prop
the stuath
understand
in accordas
Details Revealed
residence and killed Finance Minister
Takahashi about 5 o'clock. Leaving
been in contact before, to rise up in
arms in correspondence with the in-
withdrawas
Colonel K
Of February Plot
the residence in accordance with the
surgent troops. The plot was discussed
Premier's
And Way Executed
manded the attacking squad and then
orders of Nakahashi. Nakajitna com-
on the night of February 27 at the
house of Teruo Nakahashi in Kudan 1-
al residene
Railway
went to the official residence of the
chome. Kojimachi Ward. In order to
Forestry
Premier. Yoshimichi Imaizumi. who
carry out the design Shibukawa gave
ister, the
(Continued from Page 1)
was posted in the vicinity of the Sia-
Nakahashi a revolver and ammunition
Sanno Ho
be and Koda to negotiate with the
mese Legation. then reported to the
and asked Yasuhide Kurihara to ob-
leaders of the army after carrying out
commanding quarters with Nakahashi
and after receiving new orders went
tion. but he was unable to do so be-
tain 300 additional rounds of ammuni-
Muranaka,
"On the
side participants at the 1st Infantry
the plns and also to assemble the out-
to guard the Sakashita Gate of the
Imperial Palace. On being replaced
cause the plan was discovered before-
hand. After February 26. Shibukawa
ment of
that the
February 25. What had been decided
confreres by the evening of February
Regiment by 7 o'clock on the night of
on was then secretly conveyed to the
25. all giving their approval or accept-
ing their assignments.
"Kiyonari Mugiya. Kinjiro Suzuki and
Three Won Over
about 11 o'clock by another squad, he
nari Mugiya and Masaru Yasuda were
assigned to attack and kill the Lord
Keeper of the Privy Seal. Viscount
returned to the original regiment.
Saito. while Taro Takahashi and Ma-
"Naoshi Sakai. Taro Takahashi. Kiyo-
Other Assignments Made
effort to gather information and con-
give his assistance to the units station-
established contact with Captain Aki-
mitsu Matsudaira and others in an
veyed his findings to the insurgent
troops. On February 28. he joined the
units of Teruzo Ando and. inciting
the officers to renewed efforts. went
to the Premier's official residence to
peria. conm
ordered by
men under
troops m
the ist Reg
Meanwhile
hashi to p
Kofuji in
Colonel K
cated to them. Mugiya assigning him-
Yasuhei Kiyohara, who originally did
not intend to take direct action by us-
ing privates. finally decided to parti-
cipate when the said plans were indi-
and kill the Inspector-General of Mili-
tary Education. General Watanabe.
commissioned officers and men. they
saru Yasuda were charged to attack
Taking command of about 200 non-
sure the security of the position.
ed there. Together with Naoshi Sakai.
he made the rounds of the vordon
thrown round the Premier's official re-
sidence and took other measures to as-
accordance
to the mar
ed orders
have the
their barrad
self to a company and both Suzuki
left the barracks at about 4:20 o'clock.
Makino Sought
verge of 
and Kiyohara leading their own com-
panies.
The home of Viscount Makoto Saito
was reached at about 5 o'clock. and
assigned to assassinate Count Makino.
"The late Captain Hisashi Kono was
feeling runm
and others
"On the night of February 25. Mura-
after he had been dispatched. Vis-
who was staying in a detached wing of
over the tak
naka nxet Zei Nishida and Tetsuya
countess Haruko Saito. who tried to
the Itoya Inn, in Yugawara, Kanagawa
he reserved
Kamekawa at the latter's home. tolling
shield the Viscount, roceived a bayonet
Prefecture. On the night of February
that 1s, 10
then that the attacks would be carried
wound accidentally. The home was
25 Sergeant Tokisan Ujino, a private.
Koli and
out a' di:wn on the following morning
left about 5:15 o'clock. The main force
civilians Akira Miyata. Seiji Nakajima.
headquarts
amount as funds for the uprising.
Muranaka, Isobe and Kods assembled
again at the Ist Infantry Regiment
and decided on the demands to be
at' then made important arraungements.
A rciving from Kunekawa un
then was led to the neighborhood of
non-commissioned officers and men.
and Masaru Yasuda. leading about 30
took an army truck kept in waiting in
the War Ministry by Nuoshi Sukai and
Klyonari Mugiya. while Taro Takahashi
Shozo Watabiki, gathered at the lst In-
fantry Regiment barracks by mrmmons
of Kurihara and. carrying two light
richine-guns and other arms, left for
Wataru Kuroda. Genichi Mizukami and
Y gawara in two automobiles at 12:40
chief-of-star
Imperial com
peror. Upon
petitioned
the insurgen
Minister's
presented to the War Minister follow-
front of the Akasaka Detached Pdace
o'clock on the morning of February 26.
Major-Gener
ing the planned attacks and occupation
and provided by Masaru Nakada. They
Arriving at Yugawara at 5 o'clock,
the commun
of the var ous buildings. as follows:
medhstely remedy the situation with a
ion determination to procced with the
auspicious affair as firing at each other
within the Imperia! Army.
work of restoration.
sonntine ta destrove the command of
"2. To avoid absolutely such an in-
3. To arrest at once the ringleader
"1. The War Minister should im-
in the vicinity of the War Mimstry.
zuko Watanabe. who tried to stop
with the main force of the Sakai unit
6 o'clock and. brushing aside Mrs. Su-
them killed the Gereral, keaving the
home at about 6:30 o clock and joining
procteded to the home of Inspector-
General of Military Education. Gen-
etal Watanabe, attacked the place about
mot find Count Makino. In order to
dead Patrolman Yoshitake Minagawa
they raided the Itoya Inn but could
detached wing and destroyed the strue-
on guard duty at the inn and shot and
on Count Makino. They also shot and
burn him to death. they set fire to the
ture. During the attack, they shot
wounded Suzue Mori, nurse attendant
mands of the
the 1st Divi
command wa
conference 
mination.'T
they pledzed
the insurgen
who came to
leaders of 

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.99)
fantry Regiment barracks
and Masaru Yasuda, leading-about 30
of Kurilam and, ca
demands to be
non-commissioned officers and men,
rachine-guns and 
to the War Miniater follow-
took an army truck kept in waiting in
Yugawara in two sut
front of the Akasaka Detached Palace
o'clock an the merning
the various buildinss, as follows:
and provided by Masaru Nakada. They
Arrivins at Yaswane
proceeded to the home of Inspector-
The War Minister should im-
éedlately remedy the situation with a
General of Military Education, Gen-
frm determination to proceed with the
eral Watanabe, attacked the place about
burn him to death, they set fre to the
work of restoration.
6 o'clock and, brushing aside Mrs. Su-
detached wing and destregred the strut-
"2. To awoid absolutely such an in-
zuko Watanabe, who tried to stop
ture. During the attack, they shot
auspicious affair as firing at each other
them killed the Gereral, leaving the
within the Imperial Army.
home at about 6:30 o'clock and jcining
on guard duty at 'the inn and shot and
3. To arrest at once the ringleader
with the main force of the Sakai unit
wounded Suzue Mori, nurse attendent
attempting to destroy the command of
in the vicinity of the War Ministry.
on Count Makino. They also shot and
the army.
"Teruzo Ando, assigned to attack the
wounded Kamezo Iwamoto who came
"4. To remove the center figure who
official residence of the Grand Cham-
to put out the fire. In spite of their
had been attempting a military clique
berlain and to kill Admiral Kantaro
efforts, they could not find Count
movement.
Suzuki, called an emergency roll-call
Makino. Meanwhile, Genichi Mizukami
the claim
"5. To summon at once the princi-
about 3 o'clock on the morning of
saw that Kono had been severely
that the
pal local confreres to Tokyo to hear their
February 26 in front of the barracks.
wounded in the skirmish with the
tion since
views in order to take proper steps
Thirty minutes later, the unit left the
police. He therefore took command
conditions
for remedying the situation.
barracks and attacked the official re-
and, drawing his sword, urged his men
the déclart
"6. To effect the aforementioned and
sidence of the Grand Chamberlain at
into the house and set fire to other
the insurs
occupied by the uprising units until a
absolutely not to change the positions
stabilization of the situation had been
about 4:50 o'clock, wounding the
Grand Chamberlan with several bay-
onet thrusts. When Teruzo Ando was
about to give the coup de grace, he
wounded in the raid went to the Atami
came to fight the fire by brandishing
his sword. Kono and others who were
parts of it or drove away persons who
was really
and also
heart on
who had be
had been called on by Isobe on Febru-
printed for distribution.
reached.
was drafted by Muranaka, it was
"After the prospectus of the rising
"Meanwhile, Katsuo Tsushima, who
Salonji's Death Plotted
at about 5:30 o'clock. The unit re-
had to relinquish because of the ardent
request of Mrs. Takako Suzuki and
thus failed in dispatching the Grand
Chamberlain. The residence was left
turned to the neighborhood of the War
Ministry.
No. 1 and there surrendered them-
branch of the Tokyo Army Hospital
selves.
the Premier's official residence. the
Tokyo raids on February 26 occupied
War Minister's official residence. the
"The units which completed their
Thus they
rumors, the
solution that
surrounding
measures th
the last man
due to the
ary 19, decided after learning the situa-
tion in Tokyo to dispatch Prince Sai-
"Minoru Tokiwa, Yasuhira Suzuki
Police Board Taken
War Office and the Metropolitan Po-
lice Board headquarters in acoordance
Premier's of
Diet building
onji, and after the following day, he
and the late Shiro Nonaka, assigned to
with the pre-arranged plans and re-
Sanno Hotel 
and Takeshima sought to pursuade
seize the Metropolitan Police Board,
stricted traffic through the south-
"Lieutenant"
Lieuterant Tatsuo Inoue, Lieutenant
called an emergency roll-call of the
western section of Kojimachi Ward in
fore, relieved
Toshio Shioda, Lieutenant Tetsu Ita-
various companies about 2 o'clock on
support of the negotiations being con-
directorship o
gaki, and Intendant Captain Goro Su-
the morning of Februaiy 26 and, com-
ducted by Koda, Muranaka, Osobe and
and ordered t
zuki to participate. All accepted ex-
manding about 500 non-commissioned
others with the leaders of the army.
clear the occ
cept Lieutenant Itagaki, who reserved
officers and men, left the barracks
War Minister Seen
surgents, begin
his approval. On February 23, Tsu-
about 4:30 o'clock and arrived at the
Koda, Muranaka, Isobe and others,
29th. Most of
shima, Takeshima and Suzuki receiv-
police headquarters about 5 o'clock.
and others, in conjunction with the
rising, howeve
ed he decision reached on the plan of
They detailed a number of small units
unit commanded by Masatada Nibu,
on the morning
the attacks, date and time to be car-
on the main road near Sakurada Gate
arrived at the War Minister's official
dio broadcast
ried out in Tokyo, from Kurihara, who
and the road in front of the Justice
residence at about 5 a.m. on February
uted in the stry
came from Tokyo for the purpose, and
Ministry placing machine-guns and
26, and, in an interview with the War
on the Imperi
then decided to employ about 120 non-
light machine-guns at several points in
Miniser, General Yoshiyuki Kawa-
menced and,
commissioned officers and privates of
the neighborhood. A squad was placed
shima, Koda, representing the insur-
units close in
the Toyohashi Military School to at-
in the telephone exchange room of the
gents, read a statement on the reasons
resistance and
tack the villa of Prince Saionji at
police headquarters to suspend com-
for the uprising and gave an account
missioned offic
Okitsu, in Shizuoka Prefecture, at 5
munication with outside.
of the attacks made on various places,
their barracks.
o'clock on the morning of February 26.
"Seichu Nibu was charged to occupy
demanding appropriate steps to effect
"By this time
Then Tsushima and Takeshima engag-
the official residence of the War Min-
a renovation in State affairs. General
their barracks
ed themselves in detailed arrangements
ister and to suspend traffic around the
Mazaki. Lieutenant-General Furusho,
ing through th
for the dispatching of Prince Saionji.
War Ministry and the General Staff
Vice-Minister of War Major-General
2 o'clock, all
On February 25, however, they met
Office in order to facilitate the nego-
Yamashita and Lieutenant-Colonel Mi-
officers and me
with the sudden opposition of Lieute-
tiations with the leaders of the army
tsui were asked over to the War Min-
selves. All th
ed, bringing the sudden appearance of
participate in the action of their con-
nant Itagaki regarding the employ-
ment of privates, and the plan to at-
tack Prince Saionji had to be suspend-
Tsushima and Takeshima in Tokyo to
freres.
"According to the decided plans, the
he conducted an emergency roll-call
o'clock on the morning of February 26.
of about 700 men, including non-com-
missioned officers, of whom he took
by Koda, Muranaka and Isobe. At 4
command and then left the barracks
at about 4:30 o'clock with Muranaka.
sobe, Koda, Takeshima and Mata Ya-
ing, Isobe shot and wounded with his
revolver Major Katakura, who had
surgents demanded that they endea-
come to the front porch of the War
ister's official residence, where the in-
vor to cope with the emergency situa-
tion of the country.
At about 10 o'clock the same morn-
many of them
mination, some
idea of suicide
Yamamoto gath
ister's official
was not the tin
leaders except
were confined
assignments were made as follows:
mamoto. They arrived at the official
Minister's official residence.
"Kurihara, Hayashi, Ikeda and Tsu-
residence of the War Minister about 30
"Then Major-General Yamashita
mier's official residence and kill Pre-
shima were assigned to attack the Pre-
residence was heavily guarded by the
minutes later. The main gate to the
which the leaders of the army had
came with a letter of admonition
mier Keisuke Okada. Early on the
main force, prohibiting the admittance
drafted and read it to the insurgents,
morning of February 26 and after con-
of ail persons other than special per-
but they refused to submit.
veying the purposes to the non-commis-
sons.
"When wartime caution was ordered
sioned officers attached to the machine-
Masaru Tanaka, attached to the 7th
to the units under the jurisdiction of
gun corps of the 1st Infantry Regiment,
they ordered an emergency roll-call of
Field Heavy Artillery Regiment, in
charge of transportation, called out
the policy of the commander of the
the 1st Division, in accordance with
the entire force in front of the bar-
racks and then declared the purport
of the rising. A section of the corps
was then attached to the Nibu unit,
sioned officers, about 2:30 o'clock an
about 30 men, including non-commis-
the morning of February 26, under the
avoided as far as possible and the in-
surgents should be induced by pur-
garrison that bloodshed should be
bringing it to a total of about 300,
pretext of visiting the Yasukuni
suasion to return to their barracks,
and left the barracks about 4:30 o'clock.
Shrine and to go on a night march.
some of the insurgent units were placed
The Premier's official residence was
commanded to take out one touring
under the direction of Colonel Kofuji,
attacked at 5 o'clock. The four police
car and four army trucks, belonging to
commander of the 1st Regiment, on the
the regiment, left the barracks at
evening of February 26. The wartime
pfficers on duty, Kamozaemon Mura-

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.98)
VERTISER, TOKYO, WEDNESDAY, JULY 8, 1936
nforodd in: part from
son. Out of a religious mood. Yama-
pany. Risaburo Tateishi, in'full knowl.
 moraing. but no im-
moto had escaped to Mt. Minobu the
edge thaß, his action constituted viole-
was laken against the
same noon, but on March 4 he gave
tion of the military order. threw in his
a group
thle only confirmed the
himself up to the Tokyo Gendarmerie
lot with Nonaka's unit which attacked
hars in the belief that the
Corps.
the Metropolitan Police Headquarters
near the
turned in their favor
their plans as scheduled.
ened their determination
"The case of Teruo Oye and Ichiro
Subordinates Obey
officers tnd 70 men armed with ma-
chine-gins and taking with them a
descried a nhan whe
former Lard Privy
Heaven!' be cried 
muasiem Futile
Saito is as follows:
large supply of ammunition.
four shots into the
morning of February 27.
the advice of Lieutenant-
were told by Motoaki Nakahashi that
the uprising was to be started the next
"On the night of February 25 they
with the views of Ando and on the
Hanakichi Idaka had sympathized
villa, aword in hand,
and others. proposed
morning. Öye. having been once a sub-
night of February 25 consented to join
 to withdraw from their
ordinate of Nakahashi and having been
the insurgents along with Kanejiro
the area for the conveni-
coached as to the necessity of a Sho-
Suzuki upon being urged by Nonakm.
Ceneral Staff in attending
wa Restoration decided on taking part
in the coup as a contingent of the main
Then Idaka on his part urged Sergeant
duties and to return to
force. Ichiro Saito. too. knew that he
Suda to participate in the coup. Upon
angle.
 but they would not
was being forced into crime because he
the outbreak of the insurrection, he
"Watabiki, upon seeing thee
At last, however, it was
they should concentrate
resist the appeal from a man
was aware of the revolutionary ideas
of Nakahashi
but could
twenty men armed with light machine-
joined the party raiding the Metropoli-
tan Police Headquarters at the head of
policemen, intimidated thm 
near the new Diet build-
who had been his superior and decided
guns. His task was to guard the head-
them away at the poins of o
nd Koda went to the
his decision being made.
direction of Nakahashi, he left their
to join in the insurrection. Under the
Ginji Aoki and Kazuo Nagase were
quarters.
"Hiroshi Kitajima. Seisaku Watanabe.
er. After the house had b
aflame, he saw several womem as
headquarters and in
barracks with members of the company
urged to participate by Sakai and con-
ers, handed them a state-
ander of the martial-law
General Yasui. chief-of-
with Lieutenant-General
or. February 26 and arrived at the resi-
about 5 o'clock. He broke into the
house and after taking part in the
dence of Finance Minister Takahashi at
sented at once. Nagase enlisted the
support of Masao Hiruta and Aoki that
of Takejiro Ohara. and without the
knowledge of the officer in charge of
he fired his revolver into thenm.
Count Makino must be is thak
"Nakajima and Kurosewa wese
reasons for their uprising.
t they had reduced their
search for the Fisance Minister. went
with Nakahashi to the Imperial Palace
the company joined the Sakei unit at
the head of second-year privates. The
citement by Mizukami filmed theke.
guard duty outaide at flese best
ked the martial-law head-
grounds, where he was stationed at the
group joined in the attack on the pri-
ontinue the state of cau-
head of a squad of guards.
vate residence of the Lord Privy Seal.
and left to intimidatethe
tus quo in order to avoid
Teruo Oye at the head of two light
After this raid. Hiruta and Nagase at
hood. Mizukami's activities have
en the insurgents and
machine-gun squads stationed himself
the head of light machine-gun squads
described above."
orces. Then. on instruc-
and his men on the road in front of
participated in the attack on the pri-
ettlement of the situation.
Kita. by telephone con-
the Takahashi residence to guard
against gendarmes and police. Then
vate residence of General Watanabe.
Nagase in particular broke down the
COMFORTABLE
be and others. after con-
Koda, Kurihara. the late
Premier's official residence and acted
he joined the Kurihara unit at the
outside door of the house and rushed
into the Inspector-General's bedroom
WITH
thers interviewed some of
in concert with them.
behind Masaru Yasuda and shot the
ONLY HOTEL IN TOKYO UND
of the Supreme War
"Nakakichi Maeda was told by Sei-
general from the back, although he
IN THE BUSINESS CENTE
e War Minister's official
chu Nibu of the uprising for the sake
was already down.
YASIM
bout 4 o'clock, when they
of a Showa Restoration planned for
"Kazuo Nagase had been studying
s regarding settlement of
the morrow on the night of February
the principles of the Japanese
They in turn were ad-
25. At 2:30 o'clock on February 26.
State prior to entering the barracks
withdraw from the area
Nibu read the statement of reasons for
and had great admiration for the heroes
NIHONBASHI TRAM CAR C
with the orders of Colo-
the coup to Maeda. gave him a copy
of the Meiji Restoration. After en-
Our English-speaking
or a time. they expressed
of the manifesto and assigned him to
listing. he came under the influence
but could not decide on
a duty in the insurgent company.
of Teruo Ando and so formed the
HI
nd under the direction of
Maeda inimediately decided to take
determination to sacrifice his life for
ji spent the night at the
part in the action and left the barracks
cause of national polity.
cial residence. the offici-
for the War Mi::ister's official res-
"Tokisan Ujino. Akira Miyata, Seiji
of the Finante Minister.
idence at 5 o'clock. With five men,
Nakajima, Hisashi Kuroda, Tsuruichi
ister, Agriculture and
he proceeded to the communications
Kurosawa, Genichi Mizukami and Sho-
ster and Education Min-
station of the War Office and prohibit-
zo Watabiki had come under the in-
raku restaurant and the
ed all use of telephone or other means
fluence of Kurihara. whose ideas they
of communication.
enthusiastically embraced, Mizukami
orning of February 28.
Appeal Made
"Kenjiro Ojima. upon being told of
Ojima Joins Plot
in particular came to entertain the
view that revolution would fail unless
oda and others learned
himself along with his
mander of the 3rd Regi-
elephone Motoaki Naka-
Imperial Guards had
by Yasuhide Kurihara consented to
expressed sympathy with the ideas of
morning at 3 o'clock on February 26
take part in the uprising as he had
the coup being planned for the same
He saw Kurihara at his house and other
the army were utilized. He thus main-
tained contact with a large number of
officers who were of the same mind.
he direction of Colonel
Kurihara. Thus at the head of about
places and exchanged views with him
cordance with the Im-
60 men armed with machine-guns he
on the aims, methods and time of carry-
SANKODO SHOTEN, So
d to have the insurgent
halted at the back gate of the Premi-
ing out a coup. He received from Kuri-
nt. They ccmplained to
near the barracks of
his men at various places to guard
er's official residence. He stationed
hara a large sum of money as a cam-
paign fund. In this way he awaited
NAG
: against the action.
against interruption and himself made
the opportunity for an uprising. On
onel Kofuji had receiv-
the rounds of the cordon. Then with
the night of February 25. Kurihara
n the 1st Division. in
his men he took up a position in the
summoned Ujino and Kurosawa to his
MAMPE
 the Imperial command
compourd of the official residence.
oftice in the machine-gun squad head-
l-law headquarters. to
"Takeshi Hayashi and Masao Nii
quarters of the same regiment, and
urgent units return to
consented to take part in the uprising
others came from other regiments.
and had been on the
not so much from desire as from a
Assignment Enjoyed
Toshincho, Higashi-k
ying them to Muranaka
sense of obligation to obey their su-
"To his comrades. Kurihara explain-
ot because of the high
perior officer and being dazzled by the
ed the outline of the plans for the
Convenient situatlon and
through the insurgents
glowing words of Naoshi Sakai. Thus
uprising and assigned to the Ujino
Rates including room,
hone order to Nakahashi
they participated in the raid on the
group the assassination of Count Maki-
tion. At about this time.
residence of the Lord Privy Seal. Vis-
no at the Itoya inn. in Yugawara. They
Single rooms
Flock, or so. Mu anaka.
count Saito.
expressed joy at the assignment. Akira
hima proce tcn to the
"Before departure. Nii opened the
Miyata and Hisashi Kuroda rushed in-
with
the 1st Division and
ammunition depot of the regiment and
to the detached wing of the inn where
Double rooms
the commander ad the
distributed mmunition to the bullet-
the former Lord Privy Seal was stay-
of to apply to th-m the
recelvers of each company and took
Ing behind the late Hisashi Kono and
wish
hd, which would make
part in the raid on the Saito residence.
shot dead Yoshitaka Minagawa, police-
rebels against the Em-
With a squed of men he guarded the
man on the duty at the time. Kono
Reservations
heir return to the War
back yard of the house.
and Miyata were severely wounded in
TOKYO MAMPEI 
eial residence, however.
"Hayashi. in making the attack on
the skirmish with the police.
Yamanaka came with
Viscount Saito's house. went at the
"Kuroda at first entered the villa
ATAMI MAMPEI HO
ation that action against
head of a squad of 14 men armed with
from the back entrance, rapidly firing
based on the Imperial
light machine-guns and under orders
about to be started. The
from Sakai broke down the door of
uprising gathered in 
the maids room with a machine-gun.
resolved on self-deter-
Through that door. they went and
Our Store is
to the commander of
searched for the Viscount. When Sa-
Mikim
n and Colone! Kofuji.
kai and others fired on Viseount Saito.
ubmission to the com-
dmonish the insurgents.
Hayashi discharged six shots from his
revolver. After this raid. he parti-
OPEN
(Ganuina
ad in the

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.97)
Tecervers or each company and took
Ing behind the late Hisashi Kono and
which would make
part in the raid on the Saito residence.
shot dead Yoshitaka Minagawa, police-
La against the Em-
With a squed of men he guarded the
man on the duty at the tme. Kono
Reservat
return to the War
back yard of the house.
and Miyata were severely wounded in
TOKYO MAM
residence, however,
"Hayashi, in making the attack on
the skirmish with the police.
manaka came with
Viscount Saito's house, went at the
"Kuroda at first entered the villa
ATAMI
that action against
head of a squad of 14 men armed with
from the back entrance, rapidly firing
d on the Imperial
light machine-guns and under orders
at to be started. The
from Sakai broke down the door of
rdaing gathered in a
the maids room with a machine-gun.
to the commander of
colved on 'self-deter-
searched for the Viscount. When Sa-
Through that door, they went and
Our Store is
Mikin
and Colonel Kofuji.
kai and others fired on Viscount Saito.
onish the insurgents,
Hayashi discharged six shots from his
OPEN
mission to the com-
revolver. After this raid. he parti-
(Gom
Premised
cipated at the head of a squad in the
attack on the private residence of the
TODAY
Inspector-General of Military Educa-
PEARL
Chikara Nichida and
tion, General Watanabe.
part of some leaders
Ando Tells Colleagues
ehange in the situa-
"It was Teruzo Ando. commander of
and
morning and the chaotic
the company, who. on the nmight of
(We do not close on depart-
valling gave the lie to
February 25. told Tsuyu Nagata and
ment store holidays)
of the authorities that
Yoshiichi Dogome of the plot to as-
return to the barracks
wish of the Emperor
sassinate
Chaemberheon
Admurd
Grd
K
use of the
e of
part of the sr
active on the nrst
aotic situationd
ITOYA & Co.
K. M
surgents made the 
if the garrison units
hem took opporess
Ginza, Tokyo.
would give battle 
Fobe.m
their present positions
up their positions in
al residence the new
Chamberlatn Nagata enteed the house
through the back gate at the head of
RelieveYourEyes
the War Office and the
80 non-commissioned officers and men.
preapration for battle.
He fired his revolver a! Admiral Suzu-
General Kashii. there-
ki. Meanwhile, Dogome. also at the
Colonel Kofuji of his
head of about 80 men. entered the
 the insurgent units
house by way of the front gate and
surrounding units to
fired his revolver at the Grind Cham-
rted areas of the in-
berlain. Led by Teruzo Ando. they.
hing the morning of the
with their men. took their positions at
the leaders of the up-
the War Office. the new Diet building.
grew convinced ear!y
the Koraku restaurant and the Sanno
of the 29th through ra-
Hoel.
and handbills distri-
"Upon being asked to join the in-
OUR ROOF GARI
ets that operation based
surzents by the late Shiro Nonaka. who
1command had com-
had been commander of the 7th Com-
Introducing Our Germ
eeing the surrounding
The ideal medicine for the eyes.
realized the futility of
ordered the non-com-
MOTOMACHI HOTEL
Sold at al! department and
Mr. Friedrichse
s and men to return to
drug stores
des Etoiles wi
scores had returned to
Modern in every respect.
KOBE
JMILE
Price 25 sen. 45 sen.
Germany behin
Deutsche Speci
If their own will. escap-
Comfortable-Moderate-Convenlent
his specialty.
insurgents' lines. By
Room Rates: Y2.50 up
the non-commissioned
Motomachi 4-chome, Kobe.
And
had surrendered them-
Phone: Sannomiva 458. 2427.
leaders except Mata
"INTERN
ered in the War Min-
esidence and. although
French 
resolved on self-deter-
KARUIZAWA HOTEL
of them claimed that it
GERM
he for it. Thus all the
Nonaka abandoned the
KARUIZAWA
and the same evening
t the Tokyo Army Pri-
Table d'Hote and A La
Spend your Summer Vacation here in the
Etoile Luncheon
exhilarating mountain atmosphere.
Tiffin
Early Reservations may be booked now
Dinner
at extra low rates.
Bar and Private
Tel. No. 20 Karuizawa
H. Y. Sato, manager
Restaurant des
6th floor, South Ma
Akasaka To
Asaleas, at foet of Mt. Asama are now in full bloom.

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
MM
TOKYO
A portion of this message
Dated August 1, 1936
before being communicated to
Rec'd. 12:58am.
anyone. (B).
Jut
894.
Secretary of State
1936
Washington, D.C.
yeees
165, August 1, llam.
GRAY. The War Office issued a communique last night
894.00/666
to the effect that the army court martial now sitting in
Tokyo has sentenced six other military officers to varying
terms f imprisonment from life in one case to four years
for their connection with the February incident. END GRAY.
The Embassy is informed on what seems to be rellable
authority that the investigaticn wil? continue and that
other officers probably including Gee al Mazaki will be
brought to trial.
KLP
GREW
AUG 4
oA parphence
FILED
1936
in Confidenie
F/FG

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.90)
0-3
A tologrem (No. l6s) et Agust 1, 19s, 
Ameriean Ambassader at Tokye reads substantially as
follows:
On July 31 the Japanese War Office issmed a e
mique to the effest that the army court martial now
sitting in Tokyo has senteneed six other military efrieesm
to varying terms of imprisommemt from life in cme ease 
four years for their connection with the February imsieems.
On what appears to be reliable authority the mabasay
has received information to the effeet that the investige-
tion will continue and that probably General Masaki as
M.
well as other offieers will be tried.
894.00/666
g9.℃
FE:EOC
FE
VIII-3-36

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
August 15, 1936.
RCV
SKH:
Tokyo's despatch No. 1952 of July 22,
1936, supplements a previous despatch in
which there was discussed the plans of the
present government to implement the policies
which were announced at the time of the
setting up of the present government
immediately after the February 26 incident.
The Embassy confirms a statement made
in the previous despatch that the Japanese
public has overwhelmingly approved of the
punishment of the February 26 conspirators.
Martial law was ended on July 17.
In a previous despatch it was stated
that the Cabinet was giving consideration
to a number of projects of reform and
improvement. It appears, however, that so
many projects have been suggested that
friction developed within the Cabinet.
This method of procedure has been dropped,
and there has been substituted instead the
plan whereby the various projects have been
submitted by the Individual ministries to
the Prime Minister and to the Minister of
Finance, who are then to select those
projects which they consider merit con-
sideration by the Cabinet as a whole.
The

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
The principal conclusion drawn by the
press from these developments is that the
overnment has capitulated to the army and
navy with regard to the approval of the
national defense estimates, and that the
needs of the other ministries will be
satisfied so far as possible after the
requirements of the army and navy have
been met.
If the conclusion above referred to is
correct, it is obvious that a number of
projects for social and economic reform
wili have to be either abandoned or
drastically curtailed. The army is said
to have taken the position that if
revenues are not sufficient to meet defense
requirements, there should be a drastic re-
form of the economic structure of the
country.
Military and naval estimates: I
suggest that you read this portion of the
despatch, beginning on page 6.
The Embassy's comment on page 9 of
the despatch is also worth reading.
894.00/667
EHD/DLY

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
894.00
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, July 22, 1936.
No. 1952.
SUBJECT:
AFTERMATH OF THE FEBRUARY 26 INCIDENT.
0 IV1
ATE
936   3 4
MID
Cokim7E(381)
C
OEPARTER
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
AU111936
894.00/667
The Honorable
COPIES SENT TO
The Secretary of State,
U.N.I. ANDM. I.D.
Washington.
OF STATE
With reference to the Embassy's despatch No. 1935,
AC/C
ated July 8, 1936, and to previous despatches in regard
OF
o the political situation in Japan resulting from the
1LED
C2
ncident of February 26, 1936, I have the honor to report
A
SSRY
E
that several important developments have occurred during
the past two weeks.
Execution of Officers and Civilians Implicated.
At 6 p.m., July 12, 1936, the War Office issued a
brief statement to the effect that fifteen persons sentenced
to death on July 5, 1935, for participation in the uprising
of February 26, had been executed on July 12, 1936. There
followed the names of the fifteen persons, thirteen of whom
were
F/FG

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
were former officers of the Army and two of whom were
civilians. No mention was made of the other two civilians
sentenced to death on July 5, and it is presumed that
their execution is being postponed for the purpose of
eliciting further information from them. This inference
is supported by the fact that the two who were not executed
were designated in the Court Martial judgment as "ringleaders",
while the two who were executed were designated as partici-
pants".
The execution of the sentences upon the fifteen partici-
pants in the incident created practically no excitement
in Japan. The public was well prepared for the sentences
and their execution, and there were no public outcries
against the punishment and no signs (as far as the Embassy
is aware) of any public resentment. There have been no at-
tempts, as yet, to make martyrs of the persons executed,
and such small comment as has appeared in the newspapers has
been favorable to the judgment of the Army authorities and
the execution thereof. The public appears to be pleased
that the incident was settled as it was and to be satisfied
that the sentences were imposed and executed in good faith
and with justice.
Martial law in Tokyo, which, according to rumors, would
not be lifted until after the execution of the death son-
tences on the participants in the incident, was lifted at
midnight of July 17, 1936, approximately four months and a
half after imposition. Literature critical of the existing
authority, public meetings, etc., which were prohibited under
martial

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
martial law, will again be permitted, but it has been an-
nounced that the police will cooperate with the gendarmerie
to eliminate seditious utterances and that seditious litera-
ture will be controlled under the *Seditious Literature Law
recently approved by the Diet.
Political and Social Reformation.
As was reported in despatch No. 1935, it had been de-
cided that the Cabinet as a whole was to consider the various
administrative and social reforms proposed by the various
Ministries, beginning with the Cabinet meeting of July 10.
However, after the meeting of that date, it was announced
that the Cabinet had abandoned the policy of consideration,
by the Cabinet as a whole, of the national policy plans of
the Ministries, because of the excessive number of such plans
(the newspapers stated that there were over thirty plans of
importance), of friction among the members of the Cabinet,
and of the dissatisfaction of the defense Ministries, who
wanted priority given their plans and budgets. Instead of
joint consideration of the various plans, therefore, the
Ministries were to submit their individual plans in writing
to the Premier and to the Minister for Finance, who would
judge the importance of the plans and submit those deemed
worthy of consideration and feasible to the Cabinet Council.
It was reported in the newspapers that the plans for
administrative and social reformation submitted by the
various Ministries consisted principally of the usual acti-
vities of those Ministries in an amplified form, requiring
more

=== Page 254 === (confidence 1.00)
more funds for execution. This is illustrated by the
following list of measures proposed by the Ministries,
according to the HOCHI of July 18:
"Nationalization of the electric power
industry and promotion of aviation and
shipping, proposed by the Communications
Ministry; increase in the number of judi-
cial officials and higher salaries, Jus-
tice Ministry; extension of the period
of compulsory education, Education Minis-
try; enactment of the farm law, the farm
debt re-adjustment law, mutual aid farm
insurance law, a forestry insurance law
and a policy for the promotion of sheep
raising, Agriculture and Forestry Ministry;
a health promotion program and a five-
year plan for public works, Home Ministry;
perfection of national defense facilities,
administrative reform, stabilization of the
national livelihood and establishment of
Japan's Manchukuo policy, War Office; a
defense perfection plan from the Navy Office;
measures for strengthening the East Asia
policy and economic policy, Foreign Office;
promotion of foreign trade, acquisition of
important ources of raw materials and re-
lief of th small and moderate-sized business
and industrial interests, Commerce and Industry
Ministry; encouragement of emigration and develop-
ment of the South Seas, Overseas Ministry, and
tax readjustment, Finance Ministry.
The change in procedure of the Cabinet was interpreted
by the newspapers as a sign of surrender by the Hirota
Cabinet to the defense Ministries, inasmuch as the Cabinet
has sacrificed the plans for the "stabilization of the
national livelihood" to the demands of the defense forces.
It appears more likely, however, that the Cabinet, with
a plethora of plans calling for the expenditure of large
sums of public money, decided that it would be the part
of wisdom to allot first the minimum which the defense
services could be induced to accept, and then to consider
the

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.99)
一 5 -
the plans of the other Ministries in the light of the
remaining amount of revenue available.
There has been considerable criticism of the enormous
defense plans of the Army and Navy in the newspapers and
other periodicals. As one writer expressed it, when the
Cabinet was first organized, its policies were supposed
to be the clarification of the national polity, the stabi-
lization of the livelihood of the people and the replenish-
ment of national defenses, but the clarification of the
national polity has taken the form of the arrest or sup-
pression of a few liberal thinkers; the stabilization of
the livelihood of the people seems to have been forgotten;
and in the end it has all boiled down to the replenishment
of national defense. Various newspaper editorials have
questioned the ability of the nation to pay for the enormous
requirements of the Army and Navy, and questioned the wis-
dom of applying all of the nation's revenue to armed defense
without regarding the larger matter of the nation's economic
strength, which is, in the end, the real test of a nation's
power of resistance.
There seems to be little doubt, however, that the de-
fense Ministries, and the Army in particular, are asserting
control over the Government. The KOKUMIN of July 13 stated
that the Army desires action in regard to administrative
reform and a complete understanding on the part of the
Cabinet of the nature of the situation confronting the
nation

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
nation, including the need for replenishment of national
defenses and the stabilization of the livelihood of the
nation. To this end, the Army believes that the individual
Ministers of State should sacrifice their personal ambi-
tions. If defense expenditures and state revenue cannot
be made to balance, the Army wants a drastic reform of the
economic structure of Japan. The newspapers have also re-
ported that the War Office authorities, including General
Terauchi, the Minister of War, are dissatisfied with the
progress being made by the Hirota Cabinet, and there have
been rumors that General Terauchi will resign when the
annual transfers and promotions take place in August. If
such is the case, and the Army continues dissatisfied with
the Hirota Cabinet, it may mean the downfall of the Cabinet.
The Army's Program.
According to the ASAHI, General Terauchi on July 14
submitted in writing to the Premier definite Army plans
for the replenishment of national defense, administrative
reform, stabilization of the livelihood of the people, and
Manchurian policy. The plans for replenishment of national
defense (Army only) are reported to cost some Yen 3,000,000,000,
to be spread over twelve years, but most of which would be
needed in the first six years. (Later reports are to the
effect that the Army wants Yen 3,300,000,000 in the first
six years of its replenishment program.) The plans for
administrative reform include the creation of a Ministry
of Air ( the Navy is reported to disagree with this last
plan). For the stabilization of the livelihood of the
nation,

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.99)
- 7 -
nation, the Army, according to the newspaper, recommends
a general increase of the economic strength of the nation,
the decrease of the burden on the farming communities,
the reform of taxation, the equalization of the tax burdons
of the urban and the rural districts, the adjustment of
farmers' debts, and the promotion of the health of the
nation. For the development of "Manchukuo", the Army pro-
poses the encouragement of the emigration of Japanese to
Manchuria, the development of industries in that region,
and the security of Japanese investments there. According
to the ASAHI of July 21, the Army is also reported to de-
sire the reorganization of Japan on a "national defense
basis". This plan envisages a National Mobilization Law,
a National Mobilization Secrets Protection Law, the re-
vision of the present Munitions Industry Mobilization Law
and revision of the existing Resources Research Law. The
National Mohilization Law would emphasize the organization
of industrial workers in peace time, in order that there
might be adequate labor in time of war, without the dis-
organization caused by industrial workers being called to
the colors.
The Navy Ministry has been maintaining strict secrecy
in regard to its building program after the abrogation of
the Washington Treaty becomes effective, and it is reported
that detailed plans will not even be divulged to the Cabinet,
because of the fear of leakage of building secrets. It has
been reported, however, that the naval replenishment plan
contemplates

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8 -
contemplates the expenditure of Yen 2,000,000,000 during
the nert five years.
Taxation Plans.
The ASAHI of July 19, 1936, reported that the Finance
Ministry has decided to postpone consideration of all
taxation reform schemes for some time, and to submit to
the next session of the Diet ( which will convene next
December) only the Ministry's tax increase plan. This
plan contemplates increases in practically all classes of
taxes and imposes some new taxes, including one of five
sen per gallon on gasoline. The plan will, it is reported,
bring in additional revenue of about Yen 343,500,000 per
annum. In the meantime, consideration will be given to
taxation reform schemes, with the object of lessening the
burden on the rural communities and increasing the burden of
the financial groups and the industrialists, without, how-
ever, increasing the burden to such an extent as to tar
industry out of existence.
It has also been reported that General Terauchi desires
the Government to formulate a "positive bond policy" in
order to meet the requirements of national defense. What
General Terauchi has in mind is apparently something like
the policy of the present Administration in Washington,
whereby public loans will be issued unstintingly in order
to overcome a national emergency, except that in Japan the
emergenoy is not one of national relief but of national
defense. The Finance Ministry is reported to be opposed
to

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.98)
to the General's bond scheme.
Comment.
Although there has been some newspaper criticiam
of the abandonment by the Premier of his original scheme
for more or less public discussion by the Cabinet Council
of all national policy plans of the various Ministries,
the scheme, carried as far as it was, seems to have ac-
complished the purpose for which it apparently was de-
signed, namely, to give the public a better understanding
of the intricate problems of government and to enable
them to discuss those problems comprehendingly. Much of
the trouble which has arisen in the past, such as the in-
cidents of May 15, 1932, and that of February 26 of this
year, can be traced in some degree to a lack of comprehen-
sion of the complicated problems of a modern industrial state
by the young visionaries in and out of the Army. The mass
of conjecture and discussion which has appeared in the news-
papers of Japan since the Premier inaugurated his system
of full Cabinet discussion of national policy plans, with
the publication, in more or less accurate form, of the plans
of some of the Ministries, has tended to educate the public
generally, and, it is believed, the Army in particular, in
the problems of gogernmental administration and finance.
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
1)
E. R. Dickover
First Secretary of Embassy.
800.
ERD:g
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.98)
2
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
August 20, 1936.
SKL
Tokyo's despatch No. 1955 of July 23,
1936, 1s one of the most 1nformative and
interesting reports that have been re-
ceived with regard to the incident of
February 26 involving the assassination
of several Japanese statesmen by rebel-
lious troops. If time permits I suggest
that you read it in full.
According to the Embassy, there
were several factors which militated
against the people rallying to the cause
of the military insurgents. "The people
did not like the killing of old men in
cold blood; they were opposed to the
commanding of Imperial troops contrary
to orders from above; they resented the
threat to the Imperial palace and the
Emperor in the movements of the troops
controlled by the insurgents * * *".
Nevertheless, doubts arose as to the
stability of government in Japan. De-
posits in banks were withdrawn, and
efforts were made by the well-to-do to
transfer capital to foreign countries,
which efforts were defeated by preventive
restrictions by the Government.
The sentences of imprisonment and
death

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2 -
death pronounced on the leaders of the
February 26 revolt met with virtually
unanimous popular approval.
"The Army has gained rather than
lost by the incident and its sequel."
Although there was some reaction against
the Army at the beginning, the fact that
the Army itself discharged its responsi-
bilities in such a conclusive manner as
it did resulted in complete reestablish-
ment of popular confidence in the Army.
"The incident was in parge part a
protest against privilege -- privilege
enjoyed by the wealthy, privilege within
the Army, privilege close to the Throne,
privilege in economic life. * * * The
incident was decisively put down, but it
was put down as a disciplinary measure
only, without prejudice to the cause
protested. It was put down by the Army
itself which has not failed to reiterate
the same protest.
The statement is made also that
the sucoessful settlement of the in-
cident has strengthened government in
Japan without in any way weakening the
movement for social and political
reform. The despatch concludes:
"From

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
一 3 -
"From the February 26 incident,
government in Japan emerges strong
and the Army emerges strong. Previous
to the incident there was noticeable a
trend under Army leadership toward
increasingly powerful state control of
the economic mechanism. That trend
has not suffered by the incident;
rather 1t has increased."
894.00/668
EHD/VDM

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.94)
61-1
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 1955.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, July 23, 1936.
SUBJECT: THE POLITICAL CONSEQUENCES OF THE TOKYO INCIDENT
OF FEBRUARY 26, 1936.
894.10
936 M  3 3
AND LURDS
C
COPIES SENT TO
U.N.I. ANDM. I.D.
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.00/668
OF STATE
FAB LASTEN ARS
Fab
A0G111936
Department of Frate
Gn
The Honorable
SEr 2 = 1936
The Secretary of State,
FILED
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to submit the following study of
the political consequences of the incident of February 26,
1936.
As reported to the Department in numerous telegrams
and despatches, on the morning of February 26 at Tokyo
a group of young officers in the Japanese Army led several
hundred troops to the residences of a number of the
F/FG
highest officials of the country, several such officials
were assassinated, the insurgents seized a number of public
buildings, martial law was declared by the Government, a
few

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.99)
12
- 2 -
few days later the insurgents surrendered and submitted
to arrest, they were tried by court martial extending
over several months, the leaders were sentenced to death,
other conspirators were sentenced to various terms of im-
prisonment, on July 12 most of those sentenced to death
were executed, and on July 18 martial law was lifted.
Confusion was the first effect of the incident. The
people were at a loss to know what had occurred and what
was about to occur, particularly inasmuch as a strict cen-
sorship made them susceptible to rumors as their source
of knowledge of what was actually going on. There were
frequent expressions of resentment against the censorship,
and one newspaper went so far as to say that the incident
itself would not have occurred in a community enjoying
freedom of speech.
But the populace quickly regained its composure by
virtue of its political inertia, its general indifference
to political ideas. Although the insurgents began their
operations by assassinations, their use of terrorism ended
there. Confining their use of violence to this dramatic
opening they expected that a simple statement of their
motives and program would call forth widespread popular
support and lead to the changes which they advocated.
They addressed the people through printed statements.
Quietly and confidently they harangued the passers-by
in front of the buildings which they seized. They
explained that they were opposed to privilege, whether
of wealth or of big business or of the misguided advisers
close

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.98)
61
- 3 -
close to the Emperor or of those Army leaders who gave in
to favoritism in military promotions; they advocated a
restatement of the fundamental structure of the state;
they favored stabilization of the livelihood of the pople
of Japan; they argued for recognition of the needs of ade-
quate defense of the country. They urged a Showa re-
storation in the year 1936 as brilliant and comprehensive
as the Meiji restoration. But several circumstances
materially weakened the appeal of the insurgents to the
country. The people did not like the killing of old men
in cold blood; they were opposed to the commanding of
Imperial troops contrary to orders from above; they re-
sented the threat to the Imperial palace and the Emperor
in the movements of the troops controlled by the insur-
gents; and for the first time they were awakened to the
necessity of putting a stop to the long series of poli-
tical assassinations which have taken place in Japan in
recent years.
Stunned that the ideas of the insurgents were not
sweeping the populace, and faced by inevitably heavy
bloodshed if choosing resistance to the overwhelming
loyal force sent against them, the insurgents capitu-
lated. The uprising was at an end. There remained its
punishment and the prevention of the recurrence of similar
danger in the future. The situation called for the forma-
tion of a new cabinet.
At this point the Army stepped forward to assert
a leadership which it has successfully maintained up to
the present time. Through its well-known power of preventing
the

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
the formation of a cabinet by forbidding any officer
to become Minister of War the Army was able to exact
from the new Premier, Hirota, definite concessions to the
wishes of the Army. The Army vetoed the appointment of
Yoshida as Foreign Minister. More important, the Army
undoubtedly required that the new cabinet undertake
fundamental political reform. What is especially start-
ling to the foreign observer is that the fundamental
reforms which the Army has pushed during the tenure of
office of this cabinet are practically those reforms
advocated by the insurgents of ebruary 26. Soon after
the formation of the Hirota cabinet the Army stated to
the press that in the cabinet-forming negotiations it had
insisted on Hirota's recognition of the need for action
on the national polity, livelihood of the people, national
defense, and positive foreign policy. The details which
appeared in this Army statement to the press are now, in
retrospect, astonishingly accurate as a prospectus of what
has in fact occupied the Government in the months since.
The Army took the whip hand and has kept it.
So serious a shock as the incident of rebruary 26
could not pass without causing many intelligent people
doubts of Japanese stability. Deposits in the Japanese
banks associated with clearing houses fell two and a half
per cent between the end of January and the end of Feb-
ruary l936. Pressure to remove investments from Japan to
foreign countries resulted in preventive restrictions by
the rinance Ministry, and many wealthy Japanese were thereby
checked in their plans. Concurrently the Government re-
cognized danger in the covert circulation of politically
disquieting

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.98)
5
- 5 -
disquieting documents (such had been disoovered to have
had a part in all the recent political assassinations of
Japan) and new measures were consequently put into force
to control dangerous and seditious literature.
A direct consequence of the changed public state of
mind following upon the February 26 incident was decisive
action in the trial of Aizawa, the Army officer who
assassinated General Nagata in August 1935. Previous to
the incident Aizawa's trial had dragged out inconclusively
with astonishing explanations of patriotic motive admitted
as evidence in his defense. After February 26 a new trial
was launched for him and he was sentenced to death. on
July 1 he was executed.
When sentences of imprisonment and death were pro-
nounced July 7 on the conspirators of the February 26
incident popular approval was prectically unanimous.
The
conviction was wisely based on the insurgents' use of
Imperial troops without Imperial authority. This ground
of conviction in a way justified the punishment meted out,
so heavy by comparison with that of the conspirators of
May 15, 1932. It had the further virtue of explaining the
severe penalties imposed without reflecting upon the reform
measures advocated by the insurgents. This was desirable
from the Army's point of view because of the great similar-
ity of the reform measures which the Army is backing.
The Army has gained rather than lost by the incident
and its sequel. At first, to be sure, the fact that the
insurgents were Army men had its reaction, and there was a
noticeable resistance to military service in some districts.
But the Army itself has been the executor of the measures
taken against the insurgents and has discharged the re-
sponsibility with finality in a manner which is approved
by

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.98)
61-
-6 -
by the people. In addition, the Army has succeeded
in maintaining itself in the role, under the present
administration, of trustee for fundamental reform. No
organization realizes as well as the Army itself how
widespread is military sentiment in favor of basic poli-
tical change. The movement promoted by the February 26
insurgents was no passing fancy. That General Masaki
himself was much more than a passive sympathizer of
the insurgents is scarcely open to doubt. The urge
to political change is ingrained in the Army, and in
spite of the failure of cabinet national policy dis-
cussions (these discussions degenerated into special
requests by the various departments for increased appro-
priations, and were abandoned in July after a few sessions)
the Army, which is still the crucial factor in the future
of Japan, can confidently be expected to continue in its
search for a new political order for this country.
The settlement of the incident of February 26, 1936,
has strengthened government in Japan without in any way
weakening the movement for social and political reform
which has been gaining weight in the Army over a period
of years. The incident was in large part a protest
against privilege - privilege enjoyed by the wealthy,
privilege within the Army, privilege close to the Throne,
privilege in economic life. It was a protest drawn in
the terms of the military code. The incident was de-
cisively put down, but it was put down as a disciplinary
measure only, without prejudice to the cause protested.
It was put down by the Army itself which has not failed
to reiterate the same protest. As a result of the incident,
the

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.98)
一一7
- 7 -
the country's stand on any political assassinations that
might occur in the future is clear and will no doubt serve
as a check on conspiracy; but at the same time the in-
creasing adoption of the principles advocated by the dis-
turbers of the peace of the last years has become a more
active issue, and an Army-guided expansion of government
control of industry at the expense of private property
is not only likely but also appears to be expected by
most intelligent Japanese.
The lack in Japan of liberal institutions, as is
particularly evident in the absence of those guarentees
grouped in Anglo-Saxon countries under the heading of civil
liberties, should not blind the foreign observer to the
great possibility, even the probability, of fundamental
political change in this country. What is most solidly
established in Japanese political psychology is not a be-
lief in one particular form of government economically and
sociologically defined, but is a belief in the necessity
and authority and rightness of government itself. The
acceptance of the authority of the Emperor is something
that can be counted upon to remain; but along with that
acceptance ideas are changing on the subject of what the
government should bring to the people. Japan's consti-
tution itself is a definition rather of structure of
government than of function of government, and will prove
adaptable to functional changes.
From the February 26 incident, government in Japan
emerges strong and the Army emerges strong. Previous
to the incident there was noticeable a trend under Army
leadership

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.93)
- 8 -
leadership toward increasingly powerful state control
of the economic mechanism. That trend has not suffered
by the incident; rather it has increased.
Respectfully yours,
Poo
Joseph C. Grew.
800.
CC:r
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.
Copy to Embassy; Moscow.
7

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY.
Tokyo, September 2, 1936:
894.50
NO. 2017.
SUBJECT:
THE LAW PROVIDING FOR THE PROTECTION AND
SURVEILLANCE OF PERSONS CHARGED WITH DANGEROUS
THOUGHTS.
No
For
In USA
894.00/669
C'N1
MID
Jib
P1 12 51
Division of
FAR LASTERN AFFAIRS
ASEP 221936
2
pen
Department of State
AFHAIRS
001 2- 1936
COPTET TO
1955
O.N.I. ANDM. I.D.
Yib
Egt
The Honorable
06=1936
the Secretary of State,
FILED
Washington.
Sir:
157
With reference to the Embassy's despatch No. 1998 of
1/
August 21, l936, I have the honor to enclose a translation
of the Law Providing for the Protection and Surveillance of
Persons Charged with Dangerous Thoughts, which was passed
at the recent session of the Diet and was promulgated on
May 28, 1936, as Law No. 29.
This

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
This law provides that persons who have committed
offenses against the Law for the Maintenance of Peaee
and Order shall be placed under the proteetion and
surveillance of the competent authorities for e period
of two years if the sentences of such persons are pend-
ing or if they have served their terms of sentenee or if
they have been granted a provisional release.
The Law for the Maintenance of Peace and Order to
which the present law refers was promulgated as Law No. 46
on April 21, 1925, and provides the death penalty or life
imprisonment or extended prison terms for persons guilty
of plotting an alteration of Japan's national political struo-
ture. Apparently, after the occurrence of the February 26
Incident, it was felt by the authorities that measures should
be taken to establish a closer surveillance of such persons
as the civilians and ex-Army officers who had been involved
in the Incident.
It will be recalled that most of the persons who had
planned a change in the political struoture of Japan prior
to the February 26 Incident had received lenient sentences
or else had had their sentences postponed.* For example,
former Captains Koji Muranaka and Asaichi Isobe, former
Lieutenant Zei Nishida and Kazuteru Kita, a civilian, were
all prominently mentioned in the Aizawa trial as close
associates of the defendant and mubsequently were said by
an official of the Japanese War Office to have been the
actual ringleaders in the insurrection of February 26.**
All of these men had been guilty at one time or another of
conniving at attempts to overthrow the existing order, yet
894.20/165
thoz
* Embassy's despatch No. 1821, May 12, 1936.
** Embassy!s despatch No. 1746, March 20, 1936.
894.00/635

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
they were left free to plan a similar offense, the recent
insurgent movement. The untrammelled actions of such past
offenders werefurther illustrated by the fact that Captain
Muranaka, accompanied by Zensuke Shibukawa, a civilian, at-
tended seven sessions of the Aizawa trial and openly took
notes of the trial at each session. Hence, these facts may
have been instrumental in causing the enactment of this
legislation.
The provisions of the law apply not only to chauvinists
and rightists but also to Communists and other persons of a
leftist complexion who have essayed an alteration of "Japan's
national organization" through violence. In neither case is
it clear from what or from whom the persons under protection
and surveillance are to be "protected."
A companion law whose enactment was also inspired by
the recent disturbance was the law for the Temporary Control
of Seditious Documents, a translation of which was trans-
mitted to the Department with the Embassy's despatch No. 1912
of June 23, 1936.
Respectfully,
Kdwin L. Neville,
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.
803
GDA:C
Enclosure:
1/ As stated above.
Copy to Embassy, Peiping;
馆
Moscow.

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No.
to despatch No.2017
of September 2, 1936, from the Em-
bassy at Tokyo.
OFFICIAL GAZETTE, May 29, 1936.
Law No. 29 (promulgeted May 28, 1936).
A Law Providing for the Protection and
Surveillance of Persons charged with
Dangerous Thoughts.
Article 1. In the case of a person or persons who
have committed offences against the Law for the ainte-
2.
nance of Peace and Order (Promulgated April 21, 1985),
if the execution of their sentences has been postponed,
or if no legal action has been taken ageinst them simply
because there is no necessity for instituting a supple-
mentary action or suit, such persons may, in accordance
with a decision of a deliberative committee for protection
and surveillance, be placed under protection and surveillance.
This clause may elso be applied to cases where such persons
had either served their terms of sentence or had been
granted a provisional release.
Article 2. Under protection and surveillance, the
thoughts and actions of such persons shall be watched for
the purpose of protecting them on the one hand, and on
the other, of preventing them from committing further
offences.
Article 3.

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Article 3. Such persons shall be placed under the
surveillance of officials of the Protection and Sur-
veillance Office, or be handed over to protectors or
guardians, or be placed under charge of public protection
organizations, temples, churches, hospitals and other
proper establishments.
Article 4. In the case of such persons who have
been placed under protection and surveillance, certain
restrictions may be enforced against them as to their
places of residence, their social relations, and their
exchange of communications with other persons, and in
addition other restrictions may be deemed necessary.
Article 5. The term of such protection and sur-
veillance shall be for two years. If it is deemed
necessary in special cases, the term of such surveillance
may be extended by a decision of a deliberative committee
for protection and surveillance.
Article 6. If the circumstances stipulated in
Article l should exist, such persons may, if necessary,
be provisionally subjected to the provisions of Article 3,
pending a decision to be reached by a deliberative com-
mittee for protection and surveillance.
Article 7. The procedure stipulated in Article 3
or Article 4 may be either cancelled or altered at any
time while the procedure is in operation. This clause
shal1

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
shall also apply to the procedure in the foregoing
Articles.
Article 8. The Protection and Surveillance Office
may, if necessary, order the appropriate officials to
take such persons with them to any place.
Article 9. The Protection and Surveillance Office
and the officials in charge shall be empowered to order
public offices or members of public offices to act as
agencies for them or to render other necessary assist-
ance for the execution of their duties.
Article 10. In case such persons have actually
been placed under charge of public protection organi-
zations, temples, churches and other proper establish-
ments, either the whole or a part of the expenses in-
curred by those who have taken charge of such persons
shall be paid for.
Article 1l. The expenses in the foregoing Article
may, according to orders to be issued by the Frotection
and Surveillance Office, be collected either wholly or
partially from such persons or those who are duty bound
to look after such persons. As regards the procedure
above referred to, the provisions of Article 208 of the
Code of Procedure in Non-Litigious Cases shall be applied.
Anyone who is dissatisfied with the Government's
orders to pay the expenses mentioned in the foregoing
paragraph may institute an action in an ordinary Court
within

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
within a period of one month computed from the day
on which such orders were received. This action
shall have no binuing force upon the suspension of
execution.
Article 12. The provisions relating to the procedure
of protection stipulated in the Law Relating to Minors
shall not be applied to minors who have committed of-
fences against the Law for the Maintenance of Peace and
Order.
Article 13. The present Law shall not apply to
those persons mentioned in Articles 8 and 9 of the
Army Criminal Law and in Articles 8 and 9 of the Navy
Criminal Law.
Article 14. The organization and authority of the
Protection and urve. lance Office and of a delibera-
tive comnittee for the protection and surveillance, as
well as other matters necessary for the carrying out of
protection cnd surveillance, shall be decided by Imperial
Ordinances to be issued later.
Supplementary Provisions.
The date for the enforcement of the present Law
shall be decided by Imperial Ordinance. The present
Law shall be applied to cases where the circumstances
mentioned in Article l have arisen prior to the going
into force of the present Law.

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 25, 1936.
EHD:
JUm.
SKU
Tokyo's No. 2019 of September 2, 1936,
reports further in regard to the much dis-
cussed "southward advance policy" of Japan.
The despatch quotes statements by various
officials and civilians expressing views in
regard to the meaning of this policy.
While contributing a variety of opinions
concerning the "southward advance policy",
the despatch does not succeed in clarifying
the meaning of the phrase. The reason seems
to be that the Japanese people themselves
have no clear conception of the meaning of
the "southward advance policy" and interpret
it according to their individual ideas. Thus,
opinions range from economic penetration of
nearby regions in the southern seas, to
military expansion in and occupation of
territories in the entire western Pacific
and Indian oceans. One can best understand
the phrase by realizing that it originated
in the navy, which is searching for arguments
to reenforce its budget demands and is seek-
ing to obtain a share of the prestige gained
by the army on the continent. Although most
users of the phrase disclaim any suggestion
of forceful measures in the carrying out of
their ideas, nevertheless, the fact that the
policy originated in the navy and that it
envisages the backing, if not the use of the
navy, Is significant.
Certain

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
Certain steps taken by the government
have been interpreted by the public as
implementing the "southward advance policy":
the formation of a semi-official company,
the Taiwan Development Company, which will
act as a financing agent for Japanese
economic expansion southward from Formosa;
the reorganization of the South Seas Develop-
ment Company; and the appointment of a re-
tired admiral as governor general of
Formosa.
894.00/670
WTTXDLY

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
Fliat
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 2019.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, September 2, 1936.
894.00
SUBJECT: JAPAN'S "SOUTHVARD ADVANCE" POLICY.
894.00/670
Cepy in E (381)
J
COPIES SENT TO
U.N.I. AND M. I. D.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
CONFIDENTIAL.
Department of State
The Secretary of State,
Hashington.
Asir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's de-
52
spatches No. 1798, dated April 30, 1936, and No. 1847,
dated May 15, 1936, both in regard to the recent agi-
tation in Japan for a "southward advance" policy, and
to report the following developments in this situat on.
Character of the "Southward Advance" Policy.
At a meeting of the committee appointed by the
Lower House of the Diet to consider the Formosa Develop-
ment Company bill on May 18, 1936, Mr. Nagata, Minister
for Overseas Affairs, Mr. Arita, Minister for Foreign
Affairs,

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Affairs, and Admiral Nagano, Minister of the Navy,
spoke on the subject of the "southward advance" pro-
jects of the Government. According to the TOkYo
NICHI NICHI, Mr. Nagata stated that, although Japan
has up to the present been expanding on the Asiatic
continent and to the north, the time had arrived for
the nation to start work to the south, the need for
such expansion being urgent. Mr. Arita stated that,
in his opinion, southward expansion was essential
to the welfare of the nation and consequently the
Government was considering means for the securing
of resources in that part of the vorld. He added
that this policy of the Government implied no poli-
tical or territorial designs. Admiral Nagano stated
that the Japanese policy of expansion to the south
was peaceful in nature and designed only for economic
purposes. At other discussions of the "southward
advance" policy in the Diet the purposes of the policy
were stated to be the development of fuel and "other
national defense resources", the acquisition of sources
of cotton, lumber and other raw materials, the facili-
tation of colonial emigration, the opening of new markets
for Japanese goods and the development of fisheries.
In an article published in the May, 1936, issue
of KAIZO and translated in CONTEMPORARY OPINIONS, Pro-
fessor Tadao Yanaihara of the Tokyo Imperial University
explained some of the reasons for and the character of
the "southward advance" policy. The Professor stated that
"Manchukuo" had been a disappointment as a source of raw
materials

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
materials and a market for Japanese commodities; that
expansion on the continent had redounded to the credit
of the Japanese Army, at the expense of the prestige
of the Japanese Navy and that the Navy therefore is
strongly advocating an overseas program; that the Navy
intends to control the Western Pacific from the Sea of
Okhotsk to the South Seas in order to strengthen national
defense and to provide opportunities for overseas ex-
pansion; and that, whereas expansion on the Asiatic con-
tinent has been the outcome of military operations, Japa-
nese development in Oceania has been due not to naval
activities but to economic causes. The Professor closed
his article with a plea for a better understanding of
Japan's pacific intentions in the South Seas, a part
of the article having been translated as follows:
"One fact must always be remembered in
connection with our southern expansion; it
is economic in its nature and our naval
power has no direct influence upon it. The
whole history of our South Seas policy de-
monstrates that it is our intention to expand
only by peaceful means and not by military
weight. The Navy Office, in advocating the
movement, intends only to protect the peace-
ful activities of Japanese nationals; it is
unthinkable that there is any intention of
carrying out the South Seas policy by mili-
tary operations. A purely economic expansion
such as this, however, is entirely justifiable
from the standpoints of world peace and the
current financial situation of this country.
It is unfortunate that the Government of the
Dutch East Indies and the Commonwealth Govern-
ment of Australia, inspired by groundless fears
of Japan's oceanic policy, have closed their
doors to Japanese capital, commodities and immi-
grants. They do not intend to develop their
natural resources themselves, nor will they
permit Japan to do so, and thus the exploita-
tion of the great southern regions, which
would play an important part in world economy,
is left neglected. The main reason for this is
doubtless

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
doubtless that Australia and the Dutch East
Indies are forever seeing territorial designs
in our southward policy.
Therefore, in order to carry out success-
fully her justified expansion to the south,
Japan should declare to the world that she has
no territorial designs, refrain from all speech
and action likely to incite the feelings of
other nations, place a high value on world
peace and international justice in order to regain
the world-wide honour formerly extended because
of her love of peace, and try by every possible
means to eradicate Japanophobia from the minds
of her neighbors in the south."
There are enclosed clippings from the JAPAN TIMES AND
1/
MAIL, issues of August 28, August 29 and August 30, 1936,
containing the complete text of an article by Mr. Masanori
Ito, the well-known writer on naval affairs, on the subject
of Japan's southward expansion and the connection of the
Navy therewith. Mr. Ito defines the policy as economic,
pacific and maritime in character. He points out the ad-
vantageous position possessed by Japan both as regards
imports from the South Seas and exports to those regions
and expatiates upon the benefits to be derived, not only by
Japan but by the inhabitants of the South Seas, from in-
creased trade with Japan. He defines the South Seas,
for economic purposes, as including Siam, the Netherland
Indies, French Indo-China, the Philippine Islands, the
Straits Settlements, and perhaps New Guinea and the Solomon
Islands. In a larger sense, he includes British India,
Australia and parts of Africa in the term "South Seas.
Mr. Ito's theory is that Japan's economic advance into these
territories, probably with the opposition of the present
holders of the territories, should be smoothed by diplo-
matic negotiations, backed by Japan's naval strength.
Although

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
Although he does not specifioally mention the
subject, Mr. Ito would appear to have in mind, in dis-
cussing Japan's "southward advance", the recently-ad-
vanced theory that there should be a redistribution
of the raw material resources and of the markets of
the world - that the "haves" should consent to give
something of their resources to the "have nots".
The OSAKA MAINICHI AND TOKYO NICHI NICHI, English
Edition, of May 31, 1936, in an editorial, further de-
fined the "southward advance" policy as follows:
"The term 'advance is frequently asso-
ciated with territorial ambitions. But, in
fact, territorial expansion has ceased to be
a problem as far as Japan is concerned. What
Japan desires in that connection does not go
beyond assurance that her nationals will be
allowed to go and live where they choose,
that adequate protection will be afforded
them, and that they may pursue lawful occu-
pations in peace in any land of their choice."
Despite the numerous protestations that Japan's
advance into the South Seas area is to be peaceful and
economic in nature, however, occasionally a hint of a
threat creeps into the discussions. Thus, the editorial
from the OSAKA MAINICHI AND TOKYO NICHI NICHI, quoted
above, included the following paragraph:
"In the event, however, that the powers con-
cerned are not disposed to respect our life-line
and elect to ignore our right to existence, we
must have at our command sufficient means to
make them listen to reason."
Likewise, Mr. Ito, in the article referred to above,
stated:
"It must, however, be noted that the first
line of advance consists of business and diplomacy,
and all that the Navy is concerned with is in-
direct assistance and support in a general sense.
This trade line is the life line for Japan, as it
were, and it is obvious that, in order to pro-
tect this life line, the Navy should be kept
ready for action."
The

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
The implication is that the Japanese intend to
advance into the South Seas for economic reasons,
peacefully if possible, but to advance anyway, using
force if necessary to overcome opposition to their
advance. It is probably this line of reasoning which
lies behind, in part at least, the Navy's advocacy
of the "southward advance" policy. The Navy is search-
ing for arguments to reinforce their naval budget demands.
If Japanese emigrants and tradesmen are to cbtain the
right freely to exploit the lands to the south of Japan,
the Navy must be sufficiently powerful to impose Japan's
will upon the present holders of the lands in question.
Hence Japan will need a navy second to none of those of the
Powers interested in the South Seas.
There has been some discussion of the desirability
of a more lucid definition of the "southward advance"
policy, in order to dispel the feeling of uneasiness
aroused among the Powers by the publicity given to the
policy. Thus, the editorial in the OSAKA MAINICHI AND
TOKYO NICHI NICHI, quoted above, advocated the formulation
of a "cautious and far-sighted" policy in regard to ex-
pansion southward. Professor Yanaihara, in the article
referred to above, also advocated a clear definition
of Japan's aims. The MIYAkO, in its issue of August 19,
1936, published an editorial stating as follows:
" It is most important that the Government
will in this connection clarify the real nature of
Japan's southward advance policy so that any
further unnecessary trouble, as was experienced
in the Davao land question, may be averted. The
fact that Japan has no other desire than to make
economic exploitation must be made clearly known."
The

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.99)
- 7 -
The political parties are also reported to desire a
clear definition of the "southward advance" policy,
but as yet the Government does not appear to be pre-
pared to issue any statement on the subject.
Implementing the "Southward Advance" Policy.
Certain steps have been taken by the Government
which have been interpreted by the newspapers as a part
of a general scheme of implementing the "southward ad-
vance"policy. In the last session of the Diet a bill was
passed authorizing the formation of the semi-official
Taiwan Development Company (Taiwan Takushoku Kaisha),
which, it was explained in the newspapers, will act as
a financing organ for Japanese economic expansion south
from Formosa. The Company is to be capitalized at
Yen 30,C00,000, to be subscribed by the Government, public
corporations, and Japanese subjects and juridical per-
sons; the affairs of the Company are to be under the
control of the Government; and the Company is to undertake
projects for the development of Formosa and to supply funds
for that purpose. The newspapers report that this Company,
operating from Takao, Formosa, will conduct various trad-
ing, mining and fishing enterprises in the South Seas.
On August 29, 1936, the reorganization of the South
Seas Development Company (Nanyo Takushoku Kaisha) took
place. This Company formerly operated the phosphate mines
on the island of Anguar and other mines on the island of
Fais. It has been reorganized with a capital of Yen 20,O00,Oc0
of

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8 -
of which Yen 10,546,000 represents the Government's
share (consisting of the mines on Anguar and else-
where) and of which Yen 9,454,000 will be subscribed
by the public. The objects of the Company are phosphate
mining, fishing, marine transport and financing in
the South Seas. It will start operations from January 1,
1937.
On August 31, 1936, Mr. K. Nakagawa, Governor General
of Formosa, resigned. One newspaper reported that he was
894
forced to resign, against his will, by Mir. Nagata, the
Minister for Overseas Affairs, in accordance with an
agreement entered into by the Cabinet with the defense
forces, at the time of the formation of the Hirota Cabinet,
to the effect that a naval officer would be appointed
Governor General of the island. The newspapers now report
that Admiral Seizo Kobayashi, on the reserve list, has
been appointed Governor General and will be formally
installed in the near future. Admiral Kobayashi was
formerly Maval Attaché in London and 'ashington and served
a term as Vice inister of the Navy. The ASAHI of August
31, interpreted this change from a civil governor to a
naval governor of Formosa as indicating an acceleration
of the industrial and naval defense program for Formosa,
and linked the move with the exniration of the naval
limitation treaties at the end of this year. It also
stated that the change marks the definite establishment of
the "southward advance" policy.
It appears likely that the principal meaning of the
change in the governorship of Formosa lies in the assumption
that

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.96)
- 9 -
that the Japanese Navy is planning, upon the ex-
piration of the Washington Naval Treaty at the end
of this year, to extend its sphere of operations further
to the south and is making preparations accordingly.
Respectfully yours,
Edim I.Ncill
Edwin L. Neville
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.
Enclosures:
Clippings from the JAPAN TIMES AND MAIL
August 28, 29 and 30.
800.
ERD:r
Copy to Consulate General, Sydney
4

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.1, to despatch
No.2019, dated Sept. £, 1986.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Times.
Tokyo, Friday, August 28, 1936.
Southward Expansion And
The Navy
Powers Have Entertained Suspicion Of Japan's Ambitioms
In The South Seas For Years
By MABANORI ITO
Mr. Masanori Ito is one of the
The above is an absolutely un-
leading publicits of Japan today.
garnished record of the fact by the
and particularly is recognized
Kasumigaseki. This sufmces to i
as an authority on naval pro-
dicate how afrald Holland was 
blems and other international
Japan at a time when only a fort-
situations.—Editor.
night had elapsed since the outbresk
of the European war. The immediate
Nowadays many persons visit the
Part I
cause of the Dutch apprehension was
that some of the Dutch residents in
South Seas Islands, including jour-
Batavia openly advocated Japan's
nalists. members of Parliament and
occupation of the Dutch coloni, and
students. The islands thus have
certain intriguing sections of the
suddenly occupied the spotlight of
public in Japan rose in support of
the world and reflect its glares. The
that advocacy. To go deeper into
writer of this article, too, is going to
the matter. it seems evident that the
state here again a part of his
actual circumstances were such as
cherished opinion regarding these
to impart veracity to the above
islands. In the first place. it is im.
(himera.
portant here to note that a serious
Suspicion General
misunderstanding has prevailed in
In reality, even Great Britain,
the past in the world regarding
which asked Japan to participate in
Japan in relation to the islands in
the war, seemed not to be free from
question, as foreign countries at pre-
suspicion of Japan, as is apparent
sent are showing an unfavorable
from the fact that at first London
reaction to Japan in this respect.
approached Japan with a demand
Japan having reached a decision
for a restriction of the sphere of it
to take part in the orld War and
hostilities. Thus, it is apparent that
to send an ultimatum to Germany.
there hung over the world at large a
Viscount Takaakira Kato. the then
shadow of suspicion of Japan'
Foreign Minister of Japan. inviting
aggressive designs on the South
the French, American and Russian
Seas Islands.
Ambassadors and the Dutch Minister
The Information Bureau of the
to call at his office on the afternoon
British Government issued a formal
of August 15, 1914, explained to them
statement on the night of August 17.
the position of Japan.
1914. to the effect that it was under-
Ambition Denied
stood that Japan's zone of battle
The burden of Viscount Kato's
would be linilted within the China
statement then was that Japan had
Sea. except in the case of its being
no territorlal ambitions and would
obliged to protect its sea-borne trade
take absolutely no step that would
route, and that in the Aslatic Con-
trespass upon the rights and interests
tinent such a zone for Japan would
of their countries. The Ambassaders
be restricted within the German pos-
of America. France and Russia well
sessions and not be extended to
understood Japan's position and took
other Powers' territory.
their leave satisfled. The Dutch
This official statement by Great
Minister, however. did not leave
Britain, though deemed a little too
readily. but rising from his chair.
childish, was a straw showing which
came across to Viscount Kato and
way the wind was blowing at that
grasped his hand firmly and said
time. In short. various countries of
with an air of satisfaction: "Is it
the world in.agined that it required
true, then, that your country has not
but little effort for Japan to invade
entertained any territorial design
the South Sea colonies of the various
upon our colonies?
Powers. This. in reality, they
Thereupon Foreign Minister Kato.
thought quite probable.
waxing somewhat cynical. cross-ques-
There are, however, circumstances
tioned the Dutch Minister. saying:
now which lead the world to belleve
"Then, you have had the notion,
that Japan may raid the South Sea
haven't you. that Japan would invade
Islands at any opportunity, notwith-
the colontes of your country? I want
standing that Japan denles such a
to make inquiry of you regarding
probability from the subjective stand-
this point for caution's sake." At a
point. The granary of the world
loss for a reply on the spur of the
exists where the sun shines hot and
moment, the Dutch Minister simply
strong. There exists m the South
anawered: "Not necessarily have I
Seas. favored by the bounty of the
ever thought so. but aaerr-Hol-
sun. a vitamin for the Powers to oon-
land has been misunderstood to be
quer the world. Varlous Powers d
sympathetic toward Germany... ."
the world had long watched for
After thus giving a vague answer,
the Dutch diplomat added: "It is a
very lucky day today. I wish success
to your country." He repeated his
gestures of thanks, and then left at
is a powert
last.

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.99)
cst to this world granary. Japan is
pect. This is too well "known
thus situated most conveniently to
over the world to need any partio
explolt it. This geographical position
mention. Statistics stand
of Japan's appears dazzling, it seems,
eloquent testimony to this c
to the world at large, and from this
stance. Japan, moreovér, has bu
springs the idea of a watchful guard
limited home market, though
against Japan.
very important, especially so at
Population Angle
juncture when each country of the
Another concrete factor which ex-
world as a whole is developing
cites the world's suspicion of Japan
stronger tendency to close its mar
in this connection is the Japanese
against the goods of others. Thia
population statistics, which are often
a great handicap to Japan. Japan
cited. To be more precise, they are
advance northward has. been
anxious about where Japan will seek
vocated and discussed against
utlet for its surplus population.
background of the above circum
"tv, it can only be concluded
what light it has been regarded by
has too large a popula-
as humanism will not
the other Powers of the world which
ide, solongwill
are interested in the South Sea
What is worse, it has been inter-
. for Japan's finding
sistence for its surplus
preted as if Japan's advance south.
pulation. This obvious reason can
ward were sponsored by the Návy.
hardly be denied or gainsaid by any
Actually, it has been misunderstood
that the Japanese Navy has advocat
people, however smooth-tongued.
eded such a line of progressive
The essential significance of the
activity to move in accord with the
population of a country cannot be
Army's advance northward. Seme
brought out by dividing the popula-
tion by the territorial area of the
people in Japan have even been
country concerned. It must be
prone to believe in such an allegation.
and it is considered but natural that
calculated with the arable land area
people abroad should have piaced
as a basis. On the basis of this cal-
credence in it.
culation, it is estimated that the
Granting that such a voice has been
density of population of Japan is
raised by the Navy, Japan's object in
more than 10 times as great as that
this respect may have been interpret-
of America, and 2.45 times as great
ed as aggressive, and suspicion
as that of Belgium. The density of
population of various countries per
have been entertained by the other
arable square mile is tabulated as
Powers of the world lest a second
Manchurian Incident may occur, not
follows:
Japan
1,077
in Manchuria but in the South Sea
Belgium
438
regions. This misapprehension that
Italy
339
Japan may invade the South Sea
Holland
303
Islands is as serious in nature as
the misunderstanding about the
Britain
251
Manchurian Incident itself.
Germany
205
Southward Advance Defined
As is apparent from this table,
I have never been told' offcially
Japan is far and away the most
that the Imperial Navy has ever ad-
densely populated country of the
vocated a southward advance. If it
world. If Germany and Italy be
ever did. it might have meant marine
called unsatisfied countries, Japan
development in that direction. If
should
reasonably be called &
Japan is to secure a further deve-
super-unsatisfled country. In case
lopment of maritime activity, it will
the discontented countries be taken
naturally have to seek more depend-
as the objectives of the question of
ence on the South Seas, which con-
re-distribution of the colonies of
stitute a regular and favorable route
the world, Japan should naturally be
for it from the standpoint of naviga-
given the first place, as is clearly
tion and trade.
testified by the above statistics. In
This marine development south-
fact, Japan has always been suspect-
ward and cconomic advance are
ed of intentions to invade the South
syncnomously called by the general
Sea Islands, and this is due not so
term of Japan's advance southward.
much to moral reasons as to real
This proposition is thought to have
mathematical reasons. This, at least,
been originated by the Navy and this,
is a right explanation of the situa-
in turn, has imparted an aggressive
tion, I believe.
element to the whole complex of this
Third-Class in Wealth.
advocacy. This is why a hue and
So far, however, as natural wealth
cry have been raised abroad regard-
is concerned, Japan is but poorly
ing Japan's intentions in the South
gifted in this respect. As a matter
Sea Islands.
of fact. Japan belongs to the group
(To be Continued)
of third-class countries in this res-

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
favors Japan in the South Seas with
tea. The same region ls estimated 
what it lacks in its own bounds. It
have rich coal, petroleum and mining
will forever be impossible for Japan
resources, though most of these areas
to attain a status of self-suffctency in
still remain to be prospected and ex-
the narrow sense, but it has a reak
ploited.
prospect tor attaining approximately
It is interesting to note in this
such a status by exploiting maring
connection that Italy, which is com-
resources. As for important In
paratively poor in natural resources
dustrial materials, which it has to
has been casting about for a colonial
import, such as iron ore, petroleum,
chance and has been carrying out
gum, tin and hemp, Japan can im-
investigations in these regions. In
port them, fortunately. from the
fine, it is a fact that the treasure
South Seas in abundance, say to an
house of the South Seas at present
annual amount of more than 160
remains largely unexploited. The
million yen. It is needless to point
various Powers of the world, notably
out that these regions have almost
Great Britain and the Netherlands,
inexahustible resources to meet the
have invested a fairly large amount
demands of Japan.
of money in these regions, Britain to
Sea Routes Protected
the amount of 1,900 million yen, and
Japan has already well developed
Holland to the tune of 1,750 million
trade routes there, which well de-
yen. Even this amount of invest-
monstrate Japan's. real power and
ment by these countries is rather
bids fair for further develcpment. The
small in comparison with the amount
question confronting Japan at pre-
of capital invested by them in other
sent is how to maintain these trade
parts of the world. This circum-
arteries securely, especially con-
stance can he well understood by
sidering that the profit accruing from
comparing the amount of investment
this source in the form of marine re-
made by Japan in Manchoukuo. It is
ceipts contributes considerably to
thus not too much to say that, even
the favorable balance of Japan's
with the combined investments by the
trade. Herein arises the necessity of
two Powers to the total amount of
taking into consideration Japan's
more than four billion yen, the
naval power. This, however, affords
treasure house of the South Sea
no reason for making Japan hesitate
Islands has so far been opened up
to advance southward. It is the
only by 20 or 30 per cent.
comnion incontrovertible idea with
Imports Are Heavy
all the countries, even including
The South Sea Islands import
large countries, to seek materials
manufactures from other parts of
abroad and sell manufactured goods
world to the annual amount of two
there in an endeavor to attain grea-
billion yen or so. Most of the im-
ter national development. A country
ported goods are finished articles.
which neglects making necessary
clothes, food and many sundry
and useful endeavors to realize a
other things. In short. the regions
greater national development in
are agricultural in industry and thus
ordinary times cannot be said to have
constitute a supplier of raw materials.
qualifications for becoming a great
The region still remains quite un-
nation.
developed as an industrial and manu-
To a country which is hesitant
facturing region, depending on other
about nursing and reinforcing trade
countries for most of their demand of
lines for fear of possible emergency
bicycles. The region affords a favor-
consequences, half of the significance
able export market and is pregnant
of its possession of overseas terri-
with immense trade possibilities, as
tory will be lost. From the stand-
it will not be casy to attain any
point of the supply of necessary
sudden industrial productive deve-
goods for a country by sea routes.
iopnent there by artificial means.
it presents little, if any, difference
There exists a population of more
whether the supplying country is a
than 110,000,000 distributed over an
dominion, colcny or a neutral coun-
area five times as large as Japan, the
try. For the essential point in this
population moreover being steadily
respect boils down to the bare ques-
on the increase. There is thus no
tion of whether the transport con-
reason why the Powcrs of the world
cerned is destroyed by an enemy
should make light of this bountiful
navy or is safely protected by its
corner of the world as a trade
own navy. To take a definite ex-
market.
ample, no one insists that Japan
It seems. however, that other
should refrain from developing raw
Powers of the world are at present
material industry in Manchuria. be-
too busily engaged in their respective
cause n time of war the Japanese
national pursuits to pay sufficient
Navy will be threatened by sub-
attention to the South Seas. Even
marines of the enemy country in the
if Japan has no mind to take advan-
Tsushima Straits. Great Britain, on
tage of this international situation,
the other hand, is endeavoring to re-
the fact remains that Japan stands
alize its project of dispatching us
a good chance to advance into those
many as 70 light cruisers along sea
regione and feels, in fact, the
routes several times as extensive as
necessity of doing so. That being
those between Tokyo and the South
so, Japan will be overtaken by
Seas in order to guaranteo the secur-
Nemesis if it should fail to take time
ity of supply of food and protect its
by the forelock.
expeditionary troops.
It can be said that Providence
(To Be Continued)

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.1, to despatch
No.2019, dated Sept. 2, 1936.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Times.
Tokyo, Saturday, August 29, 1936.
Southward Expansion And
The Navy
South Seas Region Defined; What Is Offered There To Japan
In An Agricultural, Mineral And Trade Way
By MASANORI ITO
Part II
However that may be, if Japan is
to realize marine development, it is
The region cannot be as clearly de-
only natural that the Navy should
fined as are America and Asia.
advocate it. The Japanese Navy
There are varying terms for the
though not at home in propaganda,
zone. such as the Front and Back
South Seas, the Outer and Inner
can reasonably be expected to hold
that to advocate the sea, shipping
South Seas, and the South Seas re-
and trade are the right factors for
gions, etc. The South Seas, as in-
guaranteeing the future security of
terpreted in connection with econo-
mic statistics, mean the so-called
Japan's national life. This is nothing
Front South Seas, which cover a
out of the way. Spain and Portugal.
sphere including Siam, the Dutch
which first neglected the sea, went
East Indies. French Indo-China. the
by the board, and then Holland fol-
Straits Settlements and the Philip-
lowed suit. On the other hand Great
pines. This area embraces 110,-
Britain, which threw its whole
000,000 square miles, or fve times
weight into the effort to attain
that of Japan. In a sense, it may be
marine development, ruled the sea.
proper that these regions should in-
Actually, America has launched on
clude New Guinea, a British pos-
activity to attain a greater sea deve-
session, and the Solomon Islands
lopment.
under Australian mandate.
Considering this history and these
True to then reputation as a
facts. the Japanese must give more
granary of the world, the Front
serious consideration to the sea.
South Seas are very rich in agri-
Nay, the Japanese must be thank-
cultura! products, producing 94 per
ful for the fact that their country is
cent of the entire world's output of
a maritime Power. For navy men to
hemp and 85 per cent of the world's
stress the above point is a necessity
gum output. I'n addition to these
from the etandpoint of naiona: de-
staple farm produces, sugar, tobacco,
fense. in both a wide and narrow
tea and other articles are produced
sense. It has notirng. indeed, to do
there in abundance. Nevertheless
with territory. It is, however. a
the greater part of the land area of
quesion of national spirit, one of
the regions still remains undevelop-
natiònal cconomic subsistence, and
ed. and as a matter of fact, of the
indirectly one of national defense
entire cultivable land area (estmated
reinforcement. To see imperialism
at 250,000 square kilometers), the
in this natural line of national
area under actual cultivation is only
endeavor by Japan only because the
a little more than 30,000 square kilo-
element 'advance" is involved, is to
meters. This undeveloped state of
see things out of focus.
agriculture. in the eyes of the Japa-
Outline Given
nese farmer, is nothing more than a
wild plain.
So far as economic questions are
concerned, civilian sections of the
Rich in Minerals
public have been advocating a south-
The South Seas are also noted for
ward advance even before the Navy.
their mineral products, and, though
and, as a matter of fact, not a small
in Japan petroleum is thought to be
number of enterprisers have been
produced only in Borneo, it is pro-
carrying such aspirations into effect.
duced also in Java. Sumatra and
The people in general. however, are
Sarawak. There are also many
rather indifferent to and ignorant of
undeveloped oil fleld. As for iron, it
this important phase of national
is estimated that there are 800,000,000
effort. This is the very reason, in-
tons of iron deposits m the Dutch
deed. why the leaders of the public
East Indies alone. It is needless to
in Japan have been earnestly and
point out that these regions are very
necessarily loudly, championing the
rich in aquatic products.
cause of Japan's southward advance.
According to an Italian almanac, to
I shall describe the South Seas ques-
take only the Dutch East Indies, it
tion confronting Japan in outline and leads the world in the production of
so submit it to the tribunal of public
pepper and copra, and comes second
opinion.
In the production of gum and third
In the first place, it is necessary to
in the output of sugar, coffee and
define the scope of the South Seas.

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.1, to despatch
No.2019, dated Sept. , 1936.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Times.
Tokyo, Sunday, August 30, 1936.
Southward Expansion And
The Navy
3
Leading Roles Must Be Played By Diplomacy And
Business With Navy In Background Only
By MASANORI ITO
Part I11
Thus the South Sea Islands not
only supply Japan with raw materials
perform an important mission in na-
but as a commodity market largely
tional defense. In this sense, there-
fore, the question of Japan's deve
supplement Japan's narrow and
limited market. According to the
lopment in the South Seas can be
statistics of 1934, Japan imported
said to have something to do with
raw materials from this regions to
India and Australia. As a matter of
fact, in its sea intercourse with those
the value of 164 million yen, and ex-
rgions, Japan earned freight and
ported goods there to be tune of 321
million yen. registering exports twice
passenger receipts to the amount of
260 million yen in 1934 as against
as great as imports. This trade
10? million yen paid out by Japan
volume of seme 500 million yen has
a sure prospect cf steady aggrandize-
to foi-ign ships on the came ac-
ment with the gradual inerease of
coent.
Japan's demand for raw materials
As stated above, the South Seas in
and with the enhancement of the
the proper sense and the one gen-
civilization of the peoples of the is-
crally accepted. which promise to be
lands in the future. The prospects
a thriving market, are situated
for trade are thus very bright indeed.
nearer to Japan than to any other
Taken in a wider sense. the so-
mercantile Power of the world. To
called South Seas include India, Aus-
be more precise, the distance between
Japan and the South Seas is only
tralia and even Africa. The volume
half the distance between those Is-
of trade done by Japan with those
lands and the United Kingdom.
regions as a whole reached 670 mii-
Granting for argument's sake that
lion yen in exports, and 666 million
the cost of production is the same
yen in imports in 1934. The amount
in Japan as in Britain, it is only too
of Japan's trade with Australia alone
clear that Japanese merchandise can
came to the fairly high level of 230
beat the British goods in point of
million yen in exports and 296 mil-
time and distance, and this will
lion yen in imports, notwithstanding
eternally prevail as it is so destined
that trade with that country has not
hy geographical fact. To add to the
been free from trouble. The trade
advantage of Japan, the cost of pro-
with British India is also about as
duction is cheaper in Japan thán in
prosperous as that with Australia and
Great Britain, and Japanese shipping
has a bright future. If Aden and the
freightage charges are lower than
cast coast of South Africa, which re
British, so there is no reason why
covered in the same trade routes ns
Japan should be beaton by Great
that of the South Seas in their nar-
Britain in thls field. Móreover, Japan
rower sense so far as Japan is con-
can import materials for industrial
cerned, are taken into the present
use from the South Seas at the cost
account. the total volume of Japan's
of a voyage of only about 2,000 miles,
trade reaches 1,410 million yen, in
and this cannot he said in the sume
exports and 1,020 million yen in inm-
brenth with Gormany, which imports
ports, or 50 and 45 per cent of the
iron ore from Brazil 8.000 miles
total volume of Japan's exports and
away, or with Great Britain, which
depends for its supply of wool and
imports.
Handsome Shipping Profit
cotton from Australia and India
more than 4,000 miles distant from its
; It may be only proper, however,
mainland.
that the aforesaid distant reglons
should be excluded from the soope
Comparative Costs
of discussion of the South Seas
It is the common rule throughout
taken in their proper sense. Never-
the world that sea carriage costs are
theless, the fact remains that in case
onc-terth the land transport rate.
the trade with those regions is borne
and from this it can be said, strange
and transported by Japanese mer-
though it may seem at first glance
chantmen, as it actually has been, it
that Hsinking is more distant from.
immediately means a State profit and
Japan Proper than the Sunda
and the ships and seamen, any way,
Straits. There are available inter-

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.98)
esting statistics in this connection.
Yawata Iron Foundry in 1929), are
which, though old (issued by the
so temporarily. Inasmuch as it s
profitable for the Dutch East Indies
to mine iron ore and sell it to Japan,
Nothing much can perhaps Be
ed by Japun trom ita
edifying and instructive. These sta-
the measures taken by that-coun-
there. but the prosp
and Germany, Japan has been utiliz-
tistics show that of Japan, America
ing ore nearest at hand. Details in
try to prohibit this profitable trade
with Japan will surely prove impos-
sible of maintenance for any long
enterprises and inve
oven from the sta
which constitute
this connection are given in the fol-
lowing table:
period of time. It is because it
materials. The regionm
Iron
Yawata:
Works:
Places of
export
Mileage Mileage Total
Sea Land
found it profitable to carry on inter-
rational deals in oil that the Dutch
East Indies permitted the establish-
great economic possibilit
ing marine transport and
Justry. Japan's aspirat
Malay. Tayeh, Ken-
ment of the Japan-Holland joint
1,755
24
1,995
petroleum company in Borneo with
nothing to do with territos
Pittsburgh:
the Mitsui Interest and the Japan
Thus it scarcely need ba
Koeln:
Messahi. othet home
Sweden.
The above figures are obtained by
districts
and hom? districts
Australia.
1,166
908
152
89
2.056
2.428
Petroleum Company as parties to it.
lion yen in rubber cultivation, and
It is also for this reason that Japan
has been permitted to invest 80 mil-
38 miliion yen in the iron. mining
this connection, as testid
can be said that the South 
that diplomacy, pacific
particular, is positively
actual events. In other
calculating the land mileage at 10
industry there.
Llon teaches Japan that 
times as many as the sea mileage to
The above economic rule, based
is most important in dealint
compensate for costs. It is clear
on human nature, works directly and
'nternational economic questien
from above that Japan is favored in
strongly with buyers. The fact that
The Navy's Role
point of transport costs in this re-
Japan exports goods to that region
Once this problem
spect. The same can be said of otner
to an anmount of 300 million yen, or
phase of racial question, the
kinds of industrial materials in
double the amount of imports, is ex-
of argument s deflected Int
general. In shert, it is thus quite ap-
plained by the fact that Japanese
other direction and will
parent that Japan is more favorably
geods are comparatively cheap and
astray from the proper cours
destined by P.ovidence than other
bring benefit and happiness to the
discussion of the South Seas que
Powers of the world to attain its
people there numbering 100,000,000.
We need not give consideratie
national greatness through mar'ne
It is impossible to force politically
such a phase of the question.
development and advance into the
high-priced goods upon the people
only take ,into consideration
South Seas.
of a country. As condition actually
matter of solidificat on of econ
Now, here arises a question. That
exist, it is needloss for Japan to
relations with the islands and
question is whe'her the natural
paint an unduly llack picture of the
settlement. This economic settler
wealth of the South Seas will not.
sifuation in this connection.
is based on political settlement
perchance. be closed to Japan. and
whether Japan will be insur'd of
Role of Diplomacy
this political settlement, in turn.
brought about by pacific diplomacy
permanent access to this treasure
However that may be, it is a fact
Japan is inseparably related with
house? To be more specific the
that Japan is not necessarily the
those regions economically, so it wi
question is whether various parts of
one and only purchaser of materials
not be impossible that along re
the South Sea Islands will come to
from the South Sea Islands, so it
gular d'plomatic channels Japan'
restrict theit exports of raw materials
follows that the authorities there will
sense of justice and economic ne
to Japan and shut out imports from
be able to manipulate some restric-
for obtaining new materials wil
this country, as Australia has
tion in their trade with Japan. This
hand in hand.
done. Apart from this, the rela-
circumstance is well explained by the
Japan's South Seas trade depend
tions with British India and trade
Japan-Netherlands trade negotia-
on the sea in every respect, so it i
relations with the Dutch East In-
tions and the actual trend of the
superfluous to point out that it
dies are proving unfavorable, as is
world. It is very important, there-
Navy must have dependability In
evidenced by the Japan-Holland trade
fore, that Japan should try to keep
this connection. It must, however
negotiations.
its trade routes as smooth as pos-
be noted that the first line of advance
Japan's Compensatory Advantage
sible and reinforce them along as
consists of business and diplomacy,
This pessimistic situation cannot
pacific lines as can be done. This
and all that the Navy is concerned
be dismissed with a laugh, for it is
means exactly what is called diplo-
with is indirect assistance and sup-
a natural phenomenon which arises
nacy. The object of diplomacy is to
port in a general sense. This trade
from the difference between Japan
guarantee the national reccipts of a
line is the ife line for Japan, as it
and other countries concerned. On
State and at the same time to
were. and it is obvious that, in order
the other hand. fundamental econo-
smooth the way for the exploitation
to protect this life line, the Nayy
mic rule prevails to make up for the
of natural resources of the country
should be kept ready for action
disadvantage suffered by Japan be-
and elsewhere. It is a very bad piece
This constitutes natural and clea
cause the South Sea Islands are not
diplomacy not to station Consuls at
State responsibilities and has nothing
its own territory. Man sells to that
places where their services are sore-
whatever to do with territorial d
ly needed. or for the Consuls, even
signs. The circumstances whioh
party with whom it is most profft..
if dispatched, not to take necessary
turn the course of Japan's develop
able to deal. and buys from that
steps at all timeg or to lose their
ment southward into a factor for
party who gives him the most ad-
heads at the occu"rance of an emer-
fostering naval power are nothin
vantageous conditions. This is in-
gency and repeat the foolish act of
more than an organic internal pheno
herent in human nature and can
locking the stable door after the
menon concerning Japan alone
hardly be stifled by force. Such
hcrse has been stolen.
have absolutely no relation
stifling may be possible for a short
As stated above, our argument in
other countries. In fine, Japan whi
time or sectionally, but it cannot
favor of development in the South
is not endowed with great natur
endure forever or be universal. This
Seas is purely economic and pacific.
will hold so long as the fundamental
To be more particular, the essential
tunately utilize the bounty of th
law of man's instincts prevall.
"bject of our advccacy in this respect
sea, and in this endeavor it
A State's first mission is to enrich
is to try to insure the supply of
the South Seas for it
the life of its people, and any Gov-
ernment which goes counter to this
principle will never last, much less
through exports, and to seek common
materials by an import policy, to
guarantee the gaining of profits
Under the circumstances,
must not fail to perceive the
of taking full advantage
succeed. though it may possibly do
xistence and prosperity with the
peoples of the South Sea Islands.
natural wealth there.
(Concluded)

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.96)
65.1
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
RECEIVED
August 8,
SEP:8 -·1936
JUN 2 4 1937
Japan: Roonomic Developments: Trade:
NOTED
DIVISION OF
Economio Reperoussions and
Political Developments and
Possibilities.
894.00
At intervals since l93l, observers of economie and
political developments in the Far East have come forward,
here and there and now and then, with the thesis that
894.00/67
there is approaching a breakdown of Japan's internal and/or
external economy. Likewise, at intervals, officers of this
Department concerned with Far Eastern relations have given
consideration, in the light of such predictions, to the
facts in the situation; and, at intervals, we have expressed
211
the view that the facts available give no evidenoe of a
crack in or an impending oracking up of Japan's economy.
During the past year the affirmation has repeatedly
been made that Japan's foreign trade has reached or is near
to its peak and that there may be expeoted soon a leveling
off or even a deoline in the figures of that trade. Offi- 
cers of the Department are at present studying the evidence
3
with regard to this affirmation. It may be some time before
we are ready to submit an expression of our views in that
F/F
connection.
Meanwhile,
G

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.97)
2
一2 -
Meanwhile, however, it may be worth while to give
thought at this time to certain of the political impliea-
tions of recent developments in conneotion with Japan's
foreign trade. During the past five years Japan's trade,
both in exports and in imports, with a perfeotly logical
relationship between those two elements, has inoreased
by leaps and bounds. With an amazing coordination and
with consequent great comparative efriciency, the Japanese
have shown themselves able to make large purohases from
abroad of raw materials, to produce manufactured artioles,
to erport these articles and to sell them abroad at prices
which have created a substantial demand for the Japanese
product. This has brought the Japanese products into suo-
cessful competition with similar products of other countries
both in the home and in the export markets of the said other
countries. In consequence, the producers and the sales
agencies of other countries have demanded of their govern-
ments protection against the newly developed Japanese
competition; and there have been raised all over the world
various obstacles to the free and natural flow of Japanese
exports.
At the same time, Japan's population has gone on
increasing; the Japanese are, like other peoples, resorting
to labor-saving devioes; the demands of the Japanese popula-
tion

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.98)
23
一3 -
tion for the essentials of livelihood constantly inerease;
this population looks more and more to manufacturing and
sale of manufactured commodities for its livelihood;
Japan's oapacity to produce and to export increases. The
more the exports of Japan are increased, the greater the
fear abroad of Japanese competition and the more the steps
taken abroad to proteot home industry against the lower-in-
price Japanese products.
Thus, while the economio pressure outward of Japan
is constantly increasing, there is being developed by
other countries an economic iron ring in opposition to
that pressure.
At the same time, in the political field, the Japa-
nese militarists have embarked, on behalf of the nation,
on a course of imperialistic expansion the prinoipal
instrument of which is armed foroe. In this field, as
in the field of trade, the Japanese effort has met with
initial successes. But, it has aroused fear -- not alone
among Japan's immediate neighbors but all over the world.
China, the Soviet Union, the British Empire, the Netherland
Empire and the United States have viewed with anxiety the
military moves and the excessive efforts to oreate a
superior army and a superior navy in which the Japanese
have engaged. The Soviet Union has established defensive
land, air and submarine forces in the Far East, which
foroes

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.97)
43-4
一 4 -
forces might readily on occasion be turned to offensive
purposes. China is making every effort of which she is
capable toward armament, now for defense against Japan,
but which might on occasion be turned at some time in the
future to offensive purposes. Great Britain and the
United States, confronted with the refusal of Japan any
longer to be bound by naval limitations constructed on the
principle of equality of security, are looking earnestly
to the perfection of their armaments. In the cases of China
and the United States, the policy of armament flows princi-
pally from solicitude in the presence of evidence of
predatory inclinations on the part of the Japanese. In the
cases of the Soviet Union and the British Empire, the
policy of armement flows partly from solicitude with regard
to situations and problems in Europe and partly from solici-
tude with regard to situations and problems in the Far East.
The great military establishments at Vladivostok, at
Singapore, and in the Hawaiian Islands, however, are estab-
lishments which relate primarily to the problem of defense
against Japan. And now General MacArthur and President
Quezon are arming the Philippines, for defense against --
Japan. Thus, it may reasonably be said there has been
created and there is being hardened a military iron ring
around Japan.
Both

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.96)
5-s
- 5 -
Both in the economic field and in the military field
there exists the phenomenon of a nation that is erowded,
dynamically energetic, convinced that it must expand and
making every effort to expand, and a world that is limited
in area and is filled with other sovereign nations most
of which are fearful of that nation's expansion, convineed
that they must resist it, and taking steps to resist it.
In such a situation, the obvious question is: Will
the foroes of expansion prove greater than the forees of
resistance? If so, when and at what point will the former
break through?
The weakest points in the economic and military rings
around Japan are to the southwestward and the southward:
China and the Philippines (and the Dutch East Indies).
There was a time when China's natural resources were
rated as comparatively limitless and China's military
strength as negligible. But, in recent years the estimates
of China's resources have been revised downward and China's
efforts in the direction of military preparedness have
made some impression. The old ideas of China as a potential
Eldorado no longer prevail. Meanwhile, estimates of the
natural resources of the Philippine Islands and portions of
the Dutch East Indies are constantly being revised upward,
and there is not within these areas themselves any substantial
organization for resistance to possible pressure from without.
If and when the aegis of American authority and responsibility
18

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.97)
- 6 -
is withdrawn from the Philippine Islands, there will lie
to the southward from Japan a point in the ring the
resources of which will invite pressure from Japan and
the power of resistance of which will be comparatively
weak -- perhaps the weakest point in the whole ring.

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
0ot. 8, 1936.
—EHD
You will probably wish to
read this short despatch by Mr.
Dickover, which descri bes the
efforts of the Japanese Govern-
ment to jay down a program of
fundamental national policies
which will satisfy a public
aroused by the demonstration
of February 26.

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 2044.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, September 18, 1936.
894.00
SUBJECT: AFTERMATH OF THE EBRUARY 26TH INCIDENT.
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. AND M.I.D.
ou!
miD
394.00/671
Division of
PEND
Department of State
The Aonorable
me Secretary of State,
Washington.
67
1667
Vith reference to the Embassy's despatch No. /1952,
dated July 22, 1936, ana to previous despatches in regard
to the political situation in Jepan resulting from the
FILED
Incident of February 26, 1936, I have the honor to report
1936
the folloving develoments:
On August 25, 1936, the basic national policies
proposed by the various ministries vere brought before
the Cabinet for its eproval. The Cabinet approved the
following seven policies and announced them officially
F/FG
on

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
on that dey:
1. Replenishment of national defense.
2. Adjustment of the national and local taxation
systems.
3. Reform and improvement of the educational system.
4. Stabilization of national livelihood.
a. Improvement of health and sanitation
facilities.
b. Amelioration of natural disasters.
c. Economic improvement of farming, fishing
and mountainous districts and develop-
ment of small industries and trade.
5. Promotion of incustry and foreign trade.
a. Rigorous control of the electric power
industry.
b. Self-sufficiency in liquid fuel, iron
and steel.
c. Acquisition of a su ply of materials for
the fibre industries.
d. ncoureement and control o foreign trade.
Develo ment of air transportation and
shipping.
f. ncoura ement of overseas activities of
the Jepanese peonle.
6. stablisiment of a definite policy tovard Kanchukuo
by the promotion of emigration and encouragement of
investments.
7. Improvement and :djustment of administrative
machinery.
The an ouncement of these policies was not received with
any creat enthusiasm in Japan. The Army is reported in the
newspapers to have criticized the policies as being too
abstract. The SAliI of August 26 stated editorially that
the

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
the policies were hardly worth discussion. It also
criticized the Cabinet for not having included the
formulation of a definite foreign policy in its list
of national policies, as a definite foreign policy is
very necessary at the moment, when relations with China
and the Soviet Union are as delicate as they are. The
JIJI of August 26 stated editorially that the enforcement
of plans is better than their enumeration and that, un-
less the gorerrment clarifies the exact nature of the
policies to be pursued, there will be no cessation of
unrest in the minds of the people.
The YOMIURI of
August 26 stated that the policies were about what ..as
to be expected from the Hirota Ca inet und expressed
the fear that the national defense policy would even-
tually absorb all the other policies. The KOlTIN
of August 27 ex ressed regret that the Cabinet took
five months to formulate its policies and speculated
upon how lon it would therefore take to carry them out.
It elso regretted that administrative reform, which
should have been the primary policy, was relegated to a
very incorspicuous position.
The actual enforcement of the announced national
policies has not yet been carried very far. The Army's
plan for the replenishment of national defense has been
reported in the newspa ers. It will require, in addition
to the usual Army expenditures, about Yen 3,300,000,000,
to be ex ended over the next six years, for the purpose
of improving the air forces, mechanization of the Army,
improvement of equipment, end strengthening of Japanese
forces

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
forces in Manchuria. The first instalment ofyen 300,000,000
was included in the Army budget for the 1937-38 fiscal year,
and the Army will ask for Yen 600,000,000 during each of
the succeeding five years, in addition to its ordinary budget.
It is reported that the Finance Ministry's program
for the adjustment of the national and local taxation systems
will be placed before the Cabinet on September 22. Details
of the proposed adjustment, however, have not yet been
made public.
In regard to the reform and improvement of the educa-
tional system, it is reported that a commission of inves-
tigation is proposed. This commission vill consider general
revision of the national educational system, and will re-
port its findings to the Cabinet.
As was reported by separate despatch, the control of
the electric power industry has become a major political
uestion in Japan, and is occupying the attention of the
Ministry of Conmunications, the Railways Ministry and other
ministries interested. The plan originally was to nationalize
the industry, but it has apparently been found that this
would be too ex ensive and the plan has been changed to control
by the Government of the generating and transmitting systems,
which will still be owned by private interests.
No concrete steps have as yet been announced for the
carrying out of the other policies listed. The Embassy
will endeavor to keep the Department informed as develop-
ments occur.
Respectfully yours,
Mikm
800.
E. R. Dickover
Chargé a'Affaires ad interim.
ERD:r
Copy to Embassy Moscow.
Peiping.

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
October 30, 1936.
EHD:
SKH
DOM:
MMV:
Tokyo's No. 2048 of September 18,
1936, reports in regard to current labor
questions in Japan. As most of the
information contained therein has reached
FE from other sources, you will probably
not wish to read.
On September 10, the army authorities
ordered all employees of the three large
military areenals to sever their connections
with labor unions, on the ground that
such membership was against the spirit and
principles of military discipline. Resolu-
tions protesting against this measure were
passed by several labor organizations.
One union declared that tre action was a
step toward fascism and as such against
the good of the people.
That this fear is not entirely un-
founded is indicated by a press report that
the Home Office is preparing a bill which
would outlaw unions, abolish the right to
strike, and establish government "protec-
tion" of labor.
In recent years the army has come to
regard itself as champion of the working
and farming classes. It therefore resents
the growth of any other organization or
movement aiming at the benefit of the
masses.
Commenting

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.97)
建
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
Commenting on the army's action
against labor unions, the Military Attaché
in Tokyo wrote: "This, coming so swiftly
on the heels of the numerous protests
against the nationalization of electric
power is a clear indication that the
people recognize no existing emergency
that demands the sacrifice of ordinary
civil liberties; and that in the opinion
of the nation at large, even devout
nationalism does not necessarily imply
an enthusiastic compliance with any
suggestion whose sole virtue consists
in the fact that it emanates from
military circles."
894.00/672
FE:WTT/DLY

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
05051117
AMERICAN EMBASSY
894.00
Tokyo, September 18, 1936.
No. 2048.
894.504
SUBJECT:
CURRENT LABOR QUESTIONS PARTICULARLY IN THEIR
CONNECTION WITH THE ARMY.
STROTTIAL
ou!
TBe
894.00/672
A6/0
NOV 18 1296
RECOR SK
Copy n FE/381
Livision of
FAR LASTERN AFFAIRS
OCT6-1936
Uepartment of State
The Honorable
FILHD
1936
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to report that during the past
month labor groups have asserted their position more
strongly than is their wont, but that the Army, with
which they have come into conflict, appears to have
F/FG
successfully maintained its position, desp ite repeated
criticisms by the labor groups of its budget and its
labor policy.
First

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
First of all, on August 16 the Shakai Taishuto or
Social Mass Party issued a statement expressing opposition
to increases in the defense expenditures, criticising the
Government for not having advanced a fundamental policy for
the stabilization of the people's livelihood, and pointing
out that military expenditures under capitalism were of
benefit only to capitalists at the sacrifice of the working
masses. Although the Shakai Taishuto has consistently
criticized the Hirota Cabinet ever since the latter's forma-
tion and has attacked certain aspects of the capitalistic
system in Japan, this is the strongest statement yet issued
by the Party, particularly the assertion that military ex-
penditures are beneficial to capitalists and detrimental to
the working masses.
There has been some talk of a popular front movement in
Japan along the lines of similar movements in Spain and France.
However, the hope of establishing a popular front in this
country seems doomed to failure for some time to come. On
September 7 Mr. Miyano, Chief of the Public Safety Section
of the Home Office, and Mr. Kayaba, Director of the Police
Bureau of the same Department, delivered speeches in which
they declared that no popular front movement, no attempt to
divide the nation into Fascist and anti-Fascist camps would
be tolerated in Japan, even if the movement should be free
of Communistic characteristics. Mr. Kayaba added that the
Communist movement had seemed to be dying out but that
stimulated by underground activity from abroad and changes
in the domestic situation it was showing signs of revival.
The

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
The Procurator General of the Justice Ministry, Mr.
Mitsuyuki, expressed a similar opinion on September 9,
namely, that the spread of Communism must be carefully
watched.
It is not known by the Embassy whether in fact there
has been a resurgence of the Communist movement in Japan.
However, in again bringing the Communistic bogey to the
fore, the Home and Justice Ministries have adopted a stand
that should meet with popular approval in view of the
"emergency nature" of the times and the national antagonism
toward Communist Russia. In this connection, it may be
reiterated that the Social Mass Party is by no means a
Communistic organization but one somewhat similar to the
British Labor Party.*
On September 10 the Army authorities ordered all em-
ployees of the military arsenals at Osaka, Nagoya and Kokura,
which number about 5,600 laborers, to sever their connections
with all labor unions, on the ground that it was against the
principle and spirit of military discipline for such workers
to retain membership in labor unions. According to the
ASAHI of September 1l, every arsenal worker thus approached
by the military authorities without exception took an oath
to withdraw from his union and never to join another one.
It will be recalled that several years ago the Navy Ministry
took similar action with the workers in naval arsenals.
As already reported to the Department, the Army auth-
orities have proven the sincerity of their announced in-
tention to establish stricter discipline in the Army by
dismissing
* Embassy's despatch No. 1706/of March 5, 1936.
894.00
625

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.99)
4-
dismissing higher officers who had been prone to meddle too
much in politics, by appointing moderate officers of the
orthodox army group to high positions, by executing or im-
prisoning the leaders of the February 26 Incident, and by
taking definite measures to isolate and suppress the ad-
vocates of direct action methods. Having thus chastized
rightist groups, the Army now feels justified in turning
its attention to elements considered to be of a leftist
character and likewise dangerous to the Army's discipline
and to the security of the State. An Army spokesman des-
cribed the measure taken against labor unions in military
arsenals as another step for the improvement of military
discipline and compared it to the orders given soldiers
after the February 26 Incident to discontinue all relations
with groups outside the Service.
Resolutions protesting against this military measure
were passed by the Social Mass Party, the Labor and Farm
Council, and the Tokyo Traffic Labor Union. The resolution
of the Social Mass Party stated among other things that,
as the military authorities knew only too well, the strength-
ening of national defense in the full sense of the term could
not be realized unless labor and the nation in general co-
operated with the Army "from the bottom of their hearts".
Going further, the Labor and Farm Union declared that the
present measure by the military authorities might possibly
set an example for the capitalist class to follow and that
it was a step toward the realization of a system of Fascism .
and as such was against the good of the Japanese people.
That

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
That the Labor and Farm Union's fear is not entirely
unfounded is indicated by a report in the NICHI NICHI of
August 25 to the effect that the Home Office was preparing
a bill, to be submitted at the next session of the Diet,
for a final "settlement" of Japan's labor problems by out-
lawing unions, abolishing the right to strike, and establish-
ing Government "protection" of labor. This newspaper stated
that the measure would be similar to the Nazi law for State
control of labor in Germany, would be unique in that it would
have no trace of Socialistic ideas, and would make the State
an impartial arbiter for the settlement of disputes arising
between labor and capital.
The Army's action with regard to military arsenals
placed the Home Office in an embarrassing position, inas-
much as that Department is said to be apprehensive lest the
Army's move be imitated in other Government factories and
even in private munitions factories. It was reported by the
JAPAN CHRONICLE of September 15 that the Home Office, whose
labor policy is based on the recognition of labor unions, had
communicated its point of view to the Navy, Finance, and Com-
munications Ministries, to the effect that the Army's action
is acceptable only as a part of the Army's work of enforcing
discipline in the service and that imitation of the step by
other Government factories would be undesirable.
Formal protests in writing were delivered by the Social
Mass Party and the National Council of Labor Unions to the
War and Home Offices on September 14. The principle points
raised by the Social Mass Party were that the formation of
Labor

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
Labor Unions was based on the right of association guaranteed
by the Constitution, that the Home Office had recognized the
legality of such unions, and that henoe the Army's persecu-
tion of labor unions showed a discrepancy of policies within
the Government.
It was reported by the TOKYO NICHI NICHI of September 16
that the authorities of the War Office had rejected the Sooial
Mass Party's protest, stating that the War Office stood for
vertical formation of the whole Army organization and would
therefore, under no circumstances, tolerate "horizontal combi-
nations" of Army arsenal workers. The Army's reply reportedly
contained the statement that the Imperial Army differed radical-
ly from capitalistic commercial organizations and that em-
ployers and employees alike in non-governmental plants would
do well to take this fact into consideration.
Amid all the tangled developments of the military ar-
senals situation, it is interesting to no te that the Army's
action has caused dissension between the so-called Fascist
and anti-Fascist elements in the Social Mass Party. The
former elements, according to the HOCHI of September 15,
maintain that the Japanese Army is essentially different
from those of other countries in that it is in a position
to become an agent of reform along socialistic lines, and
that, therefore, it is unnecessary to form a popular front
through the merger of the Social Mass Party with the National
Council of Labor Unions, which is headed by Mr. Kanju Kato.
On the other hand, the "anti-Fascist" elements in the Party
are said to have adopted the following attitude: the Party
should have the courage to refrain from blindly following the
lead of the Army and should not hesitate to criticise the
j
Amy

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.94)
-7-
Army; the agency for social reform should be the proletarians,
not the Army; and the establishment of an anti-Fascist popular
front through a merger with Mr. Kato's organization is impera-
tive. While it appears probable that the"anti-Fascist" group
will win out in its struggle with the opposing group, it seems
extremely unlikely that either the Home Office or the Army
would permit the formation of any sort of popular front.
In conclusion, it may be said that the Army has its
own ideas concerning the improvement of economic conditions
among the working classes, including both laborers and farm-
ers. It is a part of the Army's credo that any improvement
effected in this connection must have the cooperation of the
Army. Thus, the military resent the growth of any separate
proletarian movement designed to benefit the masses. In a
word, the Army has no intention of being put in a position
where it can no longer act as the champion of the people,
for it is this association which partly explains the con-
tinued support of the Army among the unthinking masses.
Respectfully yours,
1.22Dkn
E. R. Dickover,
Chargé a'Affaires ad interim.
800
GDA:C
Copy to Embassy, Moscow;
tt
1n
n
Peiping.
1

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
December 2, 1936
EHD:
：
SKH:
Tokyo reports that Mr. S. Uchida,
Minister of Railways in the Ckada
Cabinet, has been indicted for receiving
bribes. The public is inured to scancals
in this office; two other railway
ministers lave been involved in similar
scandals in the nast few years. The
office of inister cf Railways is
narticularly suscentible of abuse. It
is usually awarded to party politicians
for services rendered or as a means of
obtainin votes.
894.00/673
N1T
WTT/DLY

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.98)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 2128.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, November 13, 1936.
SUBJECT: TRIAL OF FORMER RAILWAY MINISTER FOR BRIBERY.
894.00/673
A
The Honorable
T
The Secretary of State,
比
Washington.
DEC 3
FILED
Sir:
I have the honor to report the arrest of Mr. Shinya
Uchida, Minister of Railways in the Okada cabinet, charged
receiving bribes.
Mr. Uchida on October 31 voluntarily appeared for question-
ing before the procurators of the Tokyo District Criminal Court.
By the morning of November 4 the examination had yielded grounds
for an indictment, and Imperial consent (necessary because of
Mr. Uchida's rank) was obtained to allow his prosecution.
Mr.

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
Mr. Uchida was thereupon indicted and confined in Ichigaya
prison.
It is expected that the trial will turn chiefly on the
defendant's ability to explain some Yen 150,000 received
from contractors in the form of contributions to campaign
funds. The case thus far seems to have had no harmful ef-
fect on the standing of the present Hirota cabinet, al-
though it has been feature news in all the newspapers.
The public is inured, two previous railway ministers
(Heikichi Ogawa and Chuzo Mitsuchi) having. been involved
in bribery scandals in the past year; but a conviction
will probably be exploited by persons who are interested
in bringing the political parties into disrepute.
Mr. Uchida was a member of the Seiyukai from the time
of his entry into politics in l924 until the formation of
the Okada cabinet in 1934, when his acceptance of a cabinet
position was in defiance of the Seiyukai. He withdrew
from the party and became a charter member of the Showakai.
Respectfully yours,
E.R. Dickover
Chargé a'Affaires ad interim.
y
800.
CC:r

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.79)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Dec 28
EHD
MSN
M.fy
Lo vote the
connnny cerpak uhch
seann aseegun tely t
summarije the enlasrd
—t
460

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.89)
A-cle
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Nanking,November 24,1936.
No.264.
Subject: Summary of Editorial on
Japanese Cabinet Crisis.
894.00
mt
894.002
TE
M 10 14
S
0
L
C
C
ONI-MID
EPENT
3
25
F
1936 0EC
894.00/674
O.N.I. AND M.I.D.
TARE
T EAY
2
lue
feue
Honorable
3mc
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
3ir:
1/
I have the honor to enclose a sumnary in translation
FILED
of an editorial which appeared in the Nanking Hsin Ching
1
1936
Jih Pao on Cctober 13, 1936.
It discusses the dispute between the War Office and
the Japanese cabinet wi th regard to Hirota's proposals
for a reform of political machinery and the China policy,
and mentions the serious effects on the Far Eastern situa-
tion that ould result from the fall of the Japane se Cabinet.
Lention is then made of the reorganization of the
cabinet proposed by the War Minister and the opposition
raised
F

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
raised to it by the Premier on grounds of expedieney as
well as the displeasure of the War Office at the insist-
ence of the remainder of the Cabinet on reliance on
diplomatic negotiations rather than use of force.
In conclusion reference is made to the possibility
of a conflict for dictatorship by the War Office which
might produce the resignation of the cabinet and the
serious and far reaching consequences for the Far East
that such a politicel disturbance might entail.
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
Millya R. Pech.
Willys R. Peck,
Enclosure?
Counsel or of Embassy.
1/ As steted.
800
JHP:ICL
Oricinal and two copies to Department
One copy to Peining
One copy to Tokyo

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.90)
RECHNT PLI IAL UPRT ING IN JAPAN
Jo aueee Jablnet ene the wer
Offise is happening when Sino-Japaneme rolatione are im 
grave stete, and is attraeting much ettentione It is im-
teresting to study the faots smd future development of the
confliot and its elVeet on ino-Japanese reletdons.
After the February 26 ineident, eonfliets between the
Hirota Cabinet and the War Offlce, espeoielly ia regard to
the refom of politioal maohimary and poliey temerds obine,
heve frequently occurred. If Hirote is not careful im
dealing with the ar Ofrice, his Gebinet may fall. This
will pot only produge e sorious domestie effect on Japas,
but sill also grectly influenve Sino-Japanese relationm es
well es poaea in East Aela.
On September 21, the Japemese Ter

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.86)
fšhanaiers would be lost if theme changes sake plaseerenk
Instwted that every care ehould be takan in the mattare
The Wer Office is very much dimplessed at this attitudeef
Hiro ta.
After the ineident at Shenghai broke out, the Jepamees
Yep
avtur
18
and the
ses elsu roady to dospaton
two army corps to North China to reiaforee Japanese troeps.
But Mirote and the Finence and Foreign Ministers adweeated
* policy of diplomatic settlement.
Both the Navy and Army Departments are dissatisrfed
with Hirote's policy gowards China. They have eaused
considerable diffisulties to the Hirota Cabinet for the
purpose of atteining ar Office dietatorship. Now, Hirote
is doing everything possi ble to cope with the situatiom.
If the War Ofrice continues to maintain its strong attitude,
resignation of the Cabinet is pessible. We are poeitive
that there will be an importent ehenge in Sino-Japenese
pelations if a political turnover as deaeríbed aboye
oeours in Japen. We consider sueh an upheavel aa not mezely
internal Japamese pollaleal queatian but alsea 
b

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
793.94/8448
FOR #2147
FROM
Japan
894.00/675
TO
NAME
1--1127
Apparent lessening of belligerent spirit in Japan toward China
REGARDING:
and the Soviet Union: Reporting concerning-, points out that
it is difficult to state whether this apperent loss of pugna-
city is real or is inspired by the Government for reasons of
its own.
FRG.

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.96)
49-1
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
U
A portion ofuthis telegram
Tokyo
must be closely paraphrasedFROM
before being communicated
Dated January 22, 1937
to anyone. (A)
COPIES SENT TO
Secretary of State
994.00
O.N.I. ANDM. I.D.
Washington
21
flegc.
Department of State
794
13, January 22, 6 p.m.
0312
(GRAY) One. Owing to the strong opposition to the
894.00/676
Cabinet displayed in the Diet and especially to the conflict
between the Army and the political parties culminating yes-
terday in battle of words between Hamada of the
Seiyukai and Terauchi, Minister for War, the Diet was
last night prorogued for two days in order to give the
Government an opportunity to deal with the situation.It
does not appear possible that the political parties will
2
FILET
yield to or cooperate with the Cabinet and consequently the
only courses of action left to the Cabinet are to resign
to dissolve the lower house of the Diet upon its reconvening
and to call for a general election. The Army is reported
to be pressing for dissolution and the Asahi this afternoon
reported that the Cabinet this morning decided upon this
course and is now awaiting .'some move by the political parties.
Two. The opposition of the political parties to the
army and its policies appears to be the principal cause
of the present conflict between the Diet and the Cabinet.
F
1/1
In a release at midnight immediately following the
proroguing

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.99)
492
U -2- #13, Jan. 22, 6 p.m. from Tokyo
proroguing of the Diet the war office took up the issue
in a spirited political statement the tenor of which is
that the political parties, although crying for reform,
are not alive to the reform needs which have been evident
since the incident of February 26, 1936 and that it is
imperative that the people unite at the present time in a
positive nationalistic policy of which the political prties
are incapable. The Army reitcrates the necessity of par-
liamentary reform, clarification of the national policy,
national defense and stabilization of the peoples'
livelihood and again emphasizes "the present international
crisis". (END GRAY)
Three. It appears to the Embassy that the decision of
thc Hirota Cabinet to dissolve the Housc of Represontatives
is a threat for use against the political parties in
negotiations today and tomorrow. Hirota probably hopes that
tho partios will prefur his Govurnment to a general clection.
The army seems confident that a general clcction would show
that recont opposition to the Governmont cmanates from
the political parties and not from the people. In the
opinion of the Embassy that opposition is widesprend but on
the other hand the party unity necessary to take advantage
of the opportunity is not yet evident. A newly ele cted
House without absolutemajority in any one party would probab-
ly leave the formation of the Cabinet largely within the con-
trol of the military without much fundamental change from the
present

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.99)
49-3
U -3- #13, Jan. 22, 6 p.m. from Tokyo
present.
Four. Effort at further interpretation would be pre-
mature at the present time.
GREW
CSB

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.97)
(CONFIDENTIAL)
49-4
CONFIDENTIAL
e.
PARAPHRASB
A telegram (No. 13) of January 22, 1937, from
American Embassy at Tokyo reads substantially as follows:
CONFIDENTIAL
As a result of the strong opposition to the Cabinet
894.00
displayed in the 1et and espeedally to the confliet be-
tween the Army end the political parties oulminating on
January 2l in a battle of words between Hamada of the Sei-
7
on
the
night or Jenuary 2l prorogued for two days in order to give
the Government an opportunity to deal with the situation.
It does not appear pussible thet the political parties will
yield to or cooperate with the Cabinet and consequently the
only courses of action left to the Cabinet are to resigm or
to issolve the lower house of the Diet upon its reconvening
and to call for a general election. The Army is reported to
be pressing for dissolution and the asahi reported on the
afternoon of January 22 that the Cabinet had just decided
upon this course and is now awaiting some move by the pol1-
tical parties.
The opposition of the political parties to the Army
and its policies appears to be the principal cause of the
present conflict between the Diet and the Cabinet. In a
immediately
release at midnight/rollowing the proroguing of the Diet
the war Office took up the issue in a spirited politieal
statement, the tenor of which is that the political parties,
although crying for reform, are not alive to the referm meeds
whieh have been evident sinee the ineident of Febrmary 26,
1006.

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.97)
los6, and that it is imperative that the peeple
the present time is a positive matiemalistie pelteg
which the political parties are ineapable. The
ates the necessity of parliamentary reform, claririeatis
of the national policy, natiomal defense and stabilimsei
internatiomal crisis".
The Embassy is of the opinion that the Hirota Cabimet's
decision to dissolve the lower house of the Diet is e threat
for use against the political parties in negotiations om
January 22 and 25. It 1s probable that the Premier (Hirota)
hopes that the political partios will prefer his Govermmems
rather than a general election. The Army seems to feel eer-
tain that a general election would show that recent oppositiem
to the Government originates not with the people but with the
parties. The Rmbassy is of the opinion that, although opposi-
tion to the Government is widespread, there is not yet evidemt
sufricient unity anong the parties to enable them to take
advantage of the opportunity. In case a general elestiom
should result in a new House of Representatives in which no
party had an absolute majority the formation of a new Cabinet
would probably be left in the hands or the military without
much basio change from present conditions.
The Embassy balieves that it would be premature to at-
tempt at the present time a further interpretation of the
situation.
894.00/676
M1
e.g.c.
FE:ECE
I-23-37

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
U
This telegrammust be
Tokyo
closely paraphrased
FROM
before being communicated
Dated January 23, 1937
to anyone. (B)
Rec'd 1:45 p.m., 22nd
Secretary of State
Divisar
S SENT TO
12
Washington
LO.N.I.ANDM.I.D.
894.00
Department of State
16, January 23, 1 a
894.012
676
Embassy's 13, January 22, 6 p.m.
894.00/677
The feeling tonight among prominent Japanese is
that dissolution of the Diet is inevitable and that the
Cabinet will be forced to resign. We must, however,
remember that major political crises in Japan have
heretofore been overcome. I hope that the situation will
be clearer tomorrow.
Repeated to Nanking.
GREW
KTP·CSR
7.1937
FIL
F/G

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.93)
(CONFIDENTIAL)
CONFIDENTIAL
PARAPRRABB
A telegram (No. 16) of January 23, 1937, from the
CONFIDENTIAL
American Embausy at Tokyo reads substantially es follows:
Prominent Japanese feel now (the evening of January 22)
that the Japanese Cabinet will be foroed to resign and that
the let wili undod teoly be dissolved. The unbaseador
ituatoni1l
be cleerer and he vint. ut thet major political crioes
in Jupun in the pust i vo Le:n overcome.
894.00/877
NAT
Eg.c.
FE:EGC
FE
I-22-37

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.94)
50-1
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
U
GRAY
1-1836
FROM
Tokyo
C
Dated January 23, 1937
4.
Reo'd 7:09 a.m.
Secretary of State
Vashington
X
COPIES SENT TO
894.00/678
Division
U.N.I. AND M.I, D.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
2
RUSH
21, January 23, 6 p.m.
Department of State
Embassys. 16, January 23, 1 a.m.
Hirota presented collective resignation of the cabinet
1
to the Emperor this afternoon but not yet accepted. Resig-
nation w s due to the Var Minister's refusal to accept any
form of compromise with the political parties. Successor to
Hirota uncertain but Ugaki prominently mentioned. Comments
later,
JAN 25 1937
Repeated to Nanking.
FTLED
GREW
F/G

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
WWC
Gray,
1-1236
FR8KYO,
Dated Jnnunry 24, 1937,
Rcceived : 1:25 p.m.
Secrotary of State,
FAR ESTERN ATFARS
AN 2 5 1937
Washington D.C.
894.00
O.N.I.ANDM.J.D.
Department of State
22, Janucry 24, 11 p.m.
ASiHI reports late tonight that Prince Srionii has
894.00/679
recommended to the Throne that Ugaki be the next Premier.
GREW
FILED
1937
F/FG

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
U
Tokyo
This telegram must be
closely paraphrased
Dated January 25, 1937
before being communicated
to anyone. (B)
FROM
Rec'd 7:52 a.m.
inparopl
e.g.C.
COPIESSENT TO
Secretary of State
O.N.I. AND M. I. D.
FAR LASTERN AFFAIRS
Washington
JAN 25 1937
/679
25, January 25, 4 p.m.
Department of Stato
NOTE
Embassy's 22, January 24, 11 p.m.
894.002
In spite of press reports today that the army is
894.00/680
opposed to General Ugaki as Premier, I am informed on most
reliable authority that there is a very good chance of his
being able to form a Cabinet although several days may
elapse before he is successful.
Press reports that General Matsui may become Minister
for Foreign Affairs and Shiratori Vice Minister are not
(repeat not) substantial. These appointments are regarded
as highly unlikely.
FLED
1537
Repeated to Nanking.
GREW
HPD
F/FG

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.96)
(CONFIDENTIAL)
PARAPHRASE
A telegram (No. 25) of January 25, 1987, from the
American Embassy at Tokyo reads substantially as followss
The American Ambassador has received from a very
reliable souree information to the effect that there is e
good ohance of Ceneral Ugaki being able to form a Cabinot
orte thet the army is opposed to
him as :rime Winister.
nowever, it may be several days
before Ugaki Is successful in accomplishing this.
It is considered hiehly unlikely that Ceneral Matoui
and Shiratori will be appointed to the posts of Minister
for Foreign Affairs and Vice Minister, respectively, as
reported in the press.
894.00/680
E9.S.
FE:EGC
FE
im
I-25-37

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.96)
Division of
0
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Department of State
FS
GRAY
1-1336
FROM
Tokyo
Dated January 26,193
Rec'd 1:05 p. m.
Secretary of State,
ε.g.C.
Washington.
894.
29, January 26, 11 p. m.
894.00/681
894.002
Army opposition to Ugaki continues and the press
reports that the army will not (repeat not) nominate
1
a Minister of War to serve in an Ugaki cabinet. Ugaki,
however, has not yet reported to the Throne his inability
to form a cabinet and it is not believed that he will do
so before noon tomorrow. The general feeling among
political observers late tonight is that if Ugaki tomorrow
announces his inability to form a cabinet there remain three
alternatives: (1) The Emperor may refuse to accept
1937
PILED
Ugaki's nnouncement of failure in which case the army
will be unable without disloyalty to refuse to nóminate
a Minister of War, (2) Prince Konoye or (3) General Minami
1
will be commanded to form a cabinet.
Repeated to Nanking.
KLP
GREW
F/G

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.95)
51-1
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. ANDM. I.D.
U
This telegrammust be
Tokyo
in atrict confide
FROM
closely paraphrased
before be ing communicated
Dated January 27, 1937
to anyone. (A)
Rec'd 7:45 a.m.
Joh
ch
Secretary of State
irs
AD  
A
Washington
894.00
/681
30, January 27, 6 p.m.
897002
Embassy's 29, January 26, 11 p.m., first alternative.
894.00/682
One. Ugaki this morning conferred at the Palace with
Yuasa, Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal, for over an hour and
on his return announced that he would continue his endeavor
to form a cabinet. It appears that the Court is displeased
with the army's effort to block Ugaki and desires reconsidera.
tion.
Two. In the present cabinet crisis an air of tension
1937
among high Japanese convinces the Embassy that there is in
FILED
process a more determined effort to resist political dicta-
tion by the army than has been attempted in the last fifteen
years.
Repeated to Nanking.
GREW
KLP
F/G
八

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.90)
(COMPIDENTIAL)
512
PALAPLALE
A telegram (No. 8o) ef Jammery . le, 
American Embessy et Tokyo reads substamtially es
On the morning of January 27 Ugaki eomferred s
Palace for more than an hour with the Lerd Keeper of 
山.1
010F
Privy Seal (Yuasa). Ugaki announeed, o his retura f
the Palace, that he would keep on in his effort to fem
cabinet. It seems that the Court is displeased with the
effort of the army to block the endeavor of Ugaki te femm
a new cabinet and wishes him to reeonsider the matter.
On account of an air of tension which exists in this
cabinet crisis among highly placed Japanese the Amerieam
Embassy feels certain that a more determined attempt is is
process than has been made in the last fifteen years to
resist political diotation by the army.
894.00/688
29.c.
FE:kdc
FE
m.m/t
I-27-37

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.98)
Division of
RECEIVED
FAR EASTEHN AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JÁN 2 6 1937
DIVISION OF
RECETVED
January23,1937.
JAN 2 6 1937
Mr. Secretary:
JAN 25 1937
894.
The Parliamentary Crisis in Japan.
NOTED
When the Diet reconvened on January 21, strong
00
opposition to the Covernment was shown by the political
844.
parties, and consequently the Diet was that evening
prorogued for two days. The conflict between the
political parties and the Cabinet appears to be due
894.00/683
principally to the opposition of the political parties
to the Army and its policies. Today the Ambassador
reported that the members of the Cabinet had presented
their resignation to the Emperor.
American papers commenting on the Japanese
parliamentary crisis appear to be generally of the
opinion that the crisis was brought about by economic
FILED
and financial difficulties arising out of excessive
1937
naval and military expenditures. However, in November
and December, last, the Embassy in Tokyo took note of
the growing opposition on the part of the Japanese
public to the dominant position asserted by the Army
in political matters, and stated that this trend was
due to the unpopularity of the China policy of the
Cabinet, the conclusion of the anti-communist agreement
with Germany, and failure to improve relations with the
G
United

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
United States, Great Britain and Soviet Russia, as well
as to economic and financial difficulties arising out
of increased expenditures for naval and military purposes.
The situation today is still obscure. In accordance
with Japanese practice in situations such as the present
one, the Emperor will await the results of negotiations
which are doubtless taking place between the various
important political elements, and, in the light of such
results, will either order the Cabinet to remain in
office or will accept the resignation of the Cabinet and
order the constitution of a new cabinet. The possibility
of the Diet being dissolved, which was yesterday considered
likely by press observers, is now apparently remote.
In our view, editorial comment in the United States
seems to attach exaggerated significance to the develop-
ments of the past few days in Japan. There is no doubt
but that there has been during the past few months a
definite and growing tendency on the part of the liberal
elements in Janan to challenge the undue influence of the
Army in nolitical matters: it is our estimate that this
trend will continue to grow, but that it should not be
expected to mature for some time to come.
FE:EHD/DLY
S

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.96)
52-1
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Tokyo
must be closely paraphrased
before being communicated
Dated January 29, 1937
FROM
to anyone.
(A)
Rec'd 9:15 a.m.
0
94.
Secretary of State
COPIES SENT TO
8
Diviston of
Washington
O.N.I. AND M. I.D.
682
894.
33, January 29, 5 p.m.
Department of State
Embassy's 30, January 27, 6 p.m.
894.00/684
One. Tgaki this noon reported to the Throne his
inability to form a Cabinet. Speculation in regard to
the next person to be commanded to form a Cabinet now
places Baron Hiranuma (who is believed to have Fascist
leanings) in the lead and Admiral Osumi next.
Two. Before proceeding to the Palace this noon
Ugaki released to the press his note of resignation from
the position of General on the retired list. This was
supplemented by note from his principal lieutenant,
General Hayashi, retired. Both notes severely criticised
army interference in politics. (End Gray) A press ban was
19
placed on the notes before they were published in Japan
PFLLED
but the Embassy is informed that Fleisher succeeded in
B
telephonin the complete texts to the HERALD TRIBUNE.
-21
LL.
Repeated to Nanking.
GREW
CSB
F
G

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.94)
52-2
CONFIDENTIAL
PARAPRRASE
A telegram dated January 29, 1957, from the Ameriemm
Ambassador at Tokyo, reads substantially as follows:
One. Ugaki this noon reported to the Throne his
CONFIDENTIAL
inability to form a Cabinet. Speculation in regard to
the next person to be commanded to form a Cabinet now
e.leved to have Fascist
doirsurt next.
DOTUPE
Poceedlng to the ialaoe this noon
Ugaki released to the press his note of resignation from
the position of General on the retired list. This was
supplemented by note from his principal lieutenant,
General ayashi, retired. Both notes severely critioised
army interference in politics. CONFIDENTIAL. The Embassy
is informed that notwithstanding the fact that a press
ban was plaoed on the notes before they were published in
Japan, Fleisher communicated to the HERALD TRIBUNE by
telephone the complete texts.
m.m.ld.
FE:MMH:REK

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
893.00/13949
FOR
Memorandum
894.00/
State Dept.
Far Rasterm Division
Vincent
Jan.23,1937
FROM
--) DATED
10111
NAME
1—1127
68
5
REGARDING:
Situat ion in the Far East:In connection with -, discusses
the conflict betmeen the Hirota Cabinet and the
Japanese Diet.
rDg
9
r

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.97)
53-1
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
U
GRAY
Tokyo
FROM
Dated Janudry 30, 1937
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Rec'd 11:20 a.m.
Secretary of State
COPIES SENT TO
Division of
Washington
O.N.I. AND M. I.D.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JAN 30 1937
n
34, January 30, 5 F.m.
Department of State
Embassy's 33, January 29, 5 p.m.
684
894.00/686
One. Last night Hiranuma was invited to form a
cabinet but declined. (eneral Senjuro Hayashi, retired
former  inister of War, was then selected. As it is
generally conceded that he has the support of a large part of
the aray it is b lieved that he will experience little
difficulty in forming a cabinet.
Two. General Hayashi is a soldier and not a politiciar
but is not associated with the more radical element in the
army.
He is cautious and moderate, believes in discipline
in the army and is opposed to the participation of the
FILED
army n politics (see Fabassyis despatch No. 1414, July 26
l935). It is believed that he was selected to form a
cab inet because he will be a le to control the army and
through moderation to minimize iriction between the army
and the government.
Three. It is the general consensus of opinion
F/FG
here nominetion of Hayashi means a victory for the military.
The

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.98)
53-2
u -2- #34, Jan. 30, 5 p.m. from Tokyo
The Hayashi cabinet, if formed, will be more military and
more progressive in character than was the Hirota cabinet.
Some observers say that it will have an entirely military
complexion. It will have no strong connection with the
political parties and will be devoted to administrative
reform rather than to the maintenance of the status quo in
government. Because of its military complexion it is
expected that it will accept the entire army program
including plans of national defense, strengthening of the
Japanese Manchukuo defense and economic bloc and develop-
ment of Japn's continental policy.
Four. The newspapers report that industrialists and
financiers do not view the prospect with enthusiasm. They
expect that the increased military influence in the cabinet
will rusult in the adoption o? a moderate degree of mana ed
economy with further control of industry in the attempt
supply
8v
to chieve self supp rt and further control of monetary
organs in an attempt to finance the increased budgets.
Sone inflation is expected and the share market rose this
morning in antieipation.
Five.
There is no indicntion as yet of the attitude
of the Diet toward the proposcd Hayashi cabinet.
Repeated to Nanking.
GREW
KLP:WWC

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.98)
JAN 26 1937
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
NOTED
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 25, 1937.
Mr. Secretary:
1. With regard to the Japanese
Ambassador's request for an interview with
you today: this Division has no knowledge of
what it may be the Ambassador's intention to
talk with you. Among possible subjects there
might be the present parliamentary crisis in
Japan or the exchange regulations which are
now being enforced in Japan or the informal
and unofficial agreement which Japanese and
American commercial interests have arrived at
on the subject of trade in cotton textiles or
the question of 14 versus 16 inch guns.
2. There is here attached a memorandum
giving Mr. Dooman's latest estimate and com-
ments in connection with the parliamentary
crisis.
5. If it shoulu happen that the
Ambassador makes a statement with regard to
the p&rliamentary crisis, it is believed
that there would be no need for you to make
any comment.
S1H
FL:SKH/ZK

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.97)
STATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
IAN 28 1937
RECEIVED
DIVISTON OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JAN 26 1937
Diviricn o
January 25, 1937
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
VAN 25 1937
OFFICE OF THE SEGRETARY
Mr. Becretary:
Department of State
The Parliamentary Crisis in Japan.
JAN 26 1937
894.00
Yesterday we heard informally from the Japane
NOTED
Ambassador that General Kazushige Ugaki had been designated
894.
Kokei
to form a Cabinet to succeed that of Mr. Hirota, whose
resignation was placed in the hands of the Emperor on
OB1
January 23, 1937. This information was confirmed by
894.00/687
despatches from Tokyo. The situation existing immediately
before the designation of General Ugaki to form a Cabinet
was:
The Army had demanded the dissolution of the Diet
and the holcing of a general election, in the belief that
if the issue of the Army versus the political parties were
submitted to the electorate the weight of public opinion
would be favorable to the Army. However. the Navy,
deploring any move toward creating a fissure between the
armed services and the political parties, declined to
support the Army. In accordance with past practices in
times of political stress, the advice of Prince Saionji,
the Elder Statesman, was sought.
In the light of yesterday's development, it may be
assumed that Saionji recommended the nomination of General
Ugaki as Prime Minister and against dissolution of the Diet,
F/FG
for the reason that, in his opinion, the weight of public
opinion

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
opinion is on the side of the political parties and against
the holding at this time of a general election.
General Ugaki is now retired from the Army, but he has
a considerable following in the Army and will probably be
able to find a general officer willing to take up the
portfolio of War -- the first problem which General Ugaki
will have to resolve in forming his Cabinet. As Minister
of War, in 1925 he reduced the military establishment by
four divisions, and his administration of Korea as Governor
General was, on the whole, an enlightened and progressive
one. He is regarded as a moderate liberal. He has for
some years been associated with the Minseito, the majority
political party, and it is probable that as Prime Minister
he will be acceptable to that party.
In the light of information thus far available, the
princinal significance of the developments of the past few
days is the estimate of the Emperor and of his immediate
advisers that public opinion is now favorable to a return
to what is known in Janan as a "constitutional cabinet",
or a cabinet resting on a political party or a coalition
of political parties. It is probable that no effort will
if and
be made by the Ugaki Cabinet,/when formed, substantially
to reduce the naval and military estimates. Nor do we
look for any extensive modification of Japan's foreign
policies except by long and gradual processes.
FED/DLY.m.H

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.93)
54-1
EA
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
OFFIDE OF EDONONNG ADVISER
0
U
GRAY
HFFEB 2 1937
0
1—1336
FROM
Toky
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Dated February 2, 1937
O.N.I. ANDM.I.D.
Rec'd 10:55 a.m..
C
Secretary of State
py
8 1937
Jashington
24
894.00/68
1937
36, February 2, 7 p.m.
Embassy's 34, January 30, 5 p.m.
One. Hayashi Cabinet installed this morning. Members
ere as follows: Premier (concurrently Foreign Minister
8
8
and Education Minister) General Senjuro Hayashi; War,
C1
General Kotaro Nakamura; Navy, Admiral Mitsa Yonai;
Home  fairs, Kakichi Kawarada; Finance and concurrently
601
Overseas Affairs, Toyotaro Yuki; Justice, Suyehiko Shiono;
(V
Agricult ure and Forestry and concurrently Communications,
Tatsunosuke Yamasaki; Commerce and Industry and concur-
rently Railways, Admiral Takuo Godo.
1937
FELE
Two. According to the latest information
available to the Embassy, Hayashi has not yet approached
43
any one to become Minister for Foreign Affairs. Ambassador
Sao, Naotaka
OBF
Sato at Paris and Ambassador Saito at Washington have
OBF
both been prominently mentioned but Foreign Office
officials have informed the Embassy that no telegram to
F
Saito has passed through the  oreign Office. It is
G
generally assumed that some of the other portfolios being
held

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.98)
54-2
U -2- 36, Feb. 2, 7 p.m. from Tokyo
held concurrently will be abolished or amalgamated with
others in the process of administrative reform.
Three. Inform Treasury. The reaction to the new
Cabinet in Japan is generally favorable. It was expected
that the Hayashi Cabinet would show decided Fascist trends
but the appointment of ministers of known moderate tenden-
cies has greatly relieved public apprehension. In
particular the appointment of Yuki as Finance Minister
has served to quiet the fears of economic circles. He i
a practical banker of many years experience and the general
opinion is that he will not follow the "irresponsible"
finance of Baba. It is believed that he will not permit
governmental expenditures to outrun economic advance and
cause dangerous inflation but it is thought that it will
be necessary for him to exercise some measure of control
over industry and finance in order to accomplish this end.
Four. Analysis will follow later.
Repeated to Ianking.
GREW
RR:TTC

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.91)
54-3
February 8 1937
Da reply refer to
72 894.00/688
CONPIDENTIAL
The Seeretary of State presents his complimemts te
the Homorable the Secretary of the Treasury and emeleses,
for the conridential information of the Seeretary of the
Treasury, a copy of telegram No. 36 of February 2, 7 p.m.,
from the American Ambassador at Tokyo, in regard to the
894.00/688
formation of a new Cabinet in Japan.
Enclosure:
From Embassy Tokyo
No. 36, February 2,
7 p.m.
A true copy of
the signed prigi.
2nDna
mmH
EA
FE:MMH:EJL
1
SKH
2/2/37
H.F
Vsom
CR
FEB 3 1937.
F/FG

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.98)
894.00
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
893.00/13961
SEE
FOR
Memorandum
State Department
894.00/689
Far Eastern Division
FROM
(Vincent.........) DATED ..Jan.30,..1932.
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Situation in the Far East: political situation in Japan.
General Hayashi has been entrusted with the task of forming a
Cabinet; General Ugaki failed, due to Army opposition. Choice
of Hayashi, apparently, represents a coneession to the Army,
and, therefore, the Army probably will not block his efforts
to form cabinet.
FRG.

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.96)
55-1
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
U
This telegram must be
Tokyo
closely paraphrased
February 10 1937
FROM
before being communicated
Dated February 6, 1937
to anyone. (B)
Rec'd 7:10 a.m. Lettu  Juaary
Tib
Secretary of State
eau
COPIES SENT TO
Vashington
Ch
O.N.I. ANDM.I.D.
A
43, February 6, 1l a.n.
894.00/690
pu
ni
One. Political observers ascribe formation of Moderate
Cabinet to army realization that it had gone too far in
opposing will of rest of nation. The army's wrecking of
the Hirota Cabinet resulting from the former's quarrel
with the political parties and its successful obstruction
of Ugaki who was the almost unanimous choice of the nation
exclusive of the army for Premier brought about a sugges-
tive undercurrent of criticism of the Japanese
interference in politics which led army leaders to encourage
the fornation of a Cubinet with less military and Fascist
leanings than w s expeeted. Hence the choice of Nakamura
instead of the strong Itagaki as War Minister.
FEB 19, 1937
Two. Statesmen close to the Throne desired a Cabinet
FILED
with not too strong leanin s either toward Fascism or
Liberalism in order to avoid a frontal clash between the
usually
two ideologies. Japanese politics are y desr oppor
F
tunistic and this seemed the moment for a comparatively
G
innocuous Cabinet which would avoid radical change but
would

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.99)
55-2
U -2- #43, Feb. 6, 11 a.m. from Tokyo
would gradually enforce necessary reforms.
Three. Such is the Hayashi Cabinet, without decided
complexion, without the support of the political parties,
and without marked convictions or theories although more
mature public appraisal is inclined to regard it as less
colorless than at first believed. While somewhat more
under military influence than the preceding Cabinet it is
probable that this influence will be exerted with restraint
owing to the attitude of the military leaders described in
paragraph one. There are indications that before further
asserting their power the army leaders will await the
development of the new reactionary political party which
will support and be supported by the army. The facts
concerning this new party which had its origin in a grouping
of military and other patriotic societies under th incentive
of the retired General Tatekawa will be reported by despatch.
Four. The Premier is exclusively a soldier, honest,
rational, straight-forward, not a forceful character, in-
fluential in army circles though with little experience in
politics and government.
Makamura and Yonai are good service men but almost
unknown outside the army and navy.
Yuki is generally believed to be the strong figure in
the Cabinet. A protege and follower of former Finance
Minister Takahashi, he can be expected to follow tenaciously
the cautious financial policies of his renowned predecessor.
It

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.99)
55-3
U -3- 43, Feb. 6, 11 a.m. from Tokyo
It is the general opinion that he will endeavor to reduce
the financial burden on the people as far as the military
will permit and will avoid sudden or drastic moves which
might endanger the financial structure:
o other members of the Cabinet are outstanding in
reputation and few are well known to the public.
Five. The indeterminate character of the Cabinet is
illustrated by the vagueness of its supposed policies as
published in the press:
(a) Thorough clarification of the national polity.
(b) Establishment of a definite diplomatic policy.
(c) Repletion of national defense and development of
national industry.
(a) Righteous administration under the Imperial
constitution:
Six. The Hayashi Cabinet is generally regarded as
a transitional and temporary government meant to tide over
a political crisis and perhaps constituting a short step
on the road to some sort of Japanese Fascism. The absence
of support from the political parties (no members of the
Cabinet are members of the parties) and its general weak-
ness would appear to presage a short life but such Cabinets
ofter survive for an unexpectedly long time in Japan. Some
observers are of the opinion that it will live for about a
year unless it is overthrown earlier by some
unforeseen cause: It will undoubtedly meet with opposition
in

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.98)
55-4.
U -4- #43, Feb. 6, 11 a.m. from Tokyo
in the Diet but as too strong opposition would result
in dissolution and it is not believed that the
politicians will carry their criticism to extremes.
Repeated to Nanking by mail.
GREW
CSB

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.92)
(AL)
55-5.
PALALLLI
A telogram (Ee. 45) ef Febrvery 6, 19s7.
Ameriean Embessy et Tokye reads substantially as é
tion that the fermation of a mederate cabines is se
the army of Hirote's Cabinet as a result er the army's
with the politicel perties and the successful obetrastiem 
the army of Ugaki who, except for the army's oppesitiem, 
the almost uninamous choice of the coun try for Prime Mmise
oreated a suggustive underourrent of consure of the aray's
interference in politios. This oritioism led the army lemseme
to lend their support to the formation of a cabinet leamims
loss toward military and Fascist laous than was expeeted womls
N
be the case. Therefore, Nakemura was chosen as Minister 
War instead of the strong Itagaki.
In order to avoid a head-on elash between Faseim and
Liberelism, leaders close to the Tmperor desired the form-
tion of a osbinet with not too strong leanings toward either
of the ideologies. Generelly Japanese politios are oppertm-
nistic and it appeared that this wes the time for a compare-
tively innocuous cabinet which cradually would enforee meces-
sary reforms but would avoid radical changes.
The eabinet of Hayashi is suoh a cabinet. It is nos
supported by the politicel perties, has no decided somplexiom,
and has no murked theories or conviotions. Rowever, more

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.91)
mture publie epiaice isslines tomed the 
new eabinet is less celorless thes was at first
Although this cabinet is mder military inflmemee 
what greater extent than the Hirote Cabiset was, is 
paragraph one of this telegram) this imflmemee will he
with restraint. There are indicatiems that the army l
will aweit the development of the new reaetionary pelftse
which had its beginning in a grouping or petriotie sosiesies,
including military ones, under the ineemtive of General
1
Tatekawa (retired) will support and be supported by the army.
Hayashi, who has had little experémmee in goveramemt ame
H
(10)
polities, is exclusively a soldier, influential in army eir-
cles. He is honest, straight-forward, and rational but mot
a foreeful character. The Minister of War (Makamura) emd the
20
Minister of the Navy(Yonai)are good service men but little
N
1
known outside the army and navy. It is the general belief
(Minister of Finance)
Toyotins
that the strong figure in the cabinet is Yuki/who is a follower
Y.)
and protege of Takahashi (formerly Minister of Finance) wheme
OBF
cautious financial policies he (Yuki) can be expected to fol-
low with tenacity. It is generally believed that Yukl will
try as far as the army will allow to reduee the finanoial br-
den on the Japanese people and will not endanger the fimameial
structure of the country by sudden or drastic move. Few
the other cabinet mombers are well known to the publie and
mone are outstanding in reputation.

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.96)
The vagueness of the Cabinet's suppesed polisies, as
published in the press, illustrates the imdetermimate ehar-
acter of that body. These policies are
(a) Righteous administration under the Imperial Comsti-
tution;
(b) Complete clarification of the nationel polity;
o) Devel pment ot a tpoar! industry and repletion of
netionel derense;
lte tiplomatic policy.
Undoubtedly the Hayashi Cabinet will meet opposition
in the iet but it is not believed that the politieians will
go to extremes in their criticim as too strong opposition
would result in the dissolution of the Diet. It is the gomoral
opinion that the new cabinet perhaps constitutes a short step
on the way to some kind of Japanese Fascism and that it is a
temporary and transitional government intended to tide over a
political crisis. The general weakness of the cabinet and the
absence of support from the political parties (none of the
cabinet being members of political parties) would seem to por-
tend a short life. However, in Japan cabimets of this kima
often live longer than expected and some observers thimk that
unless this cabinet is overthrown by some unforeseem eause
it will survive for about one year.
894.00/690
egs.
FE:ESC
II-8-37

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.93)
rebruary 10 1957
CONLIDENTIAL
The Seeretary of State presents his eomplimemts s
894.00/690
the Homerable the Secretary of the Treasury and, with
reference to this Department's letter of February 5 in
regard to the formation of a new Cabinet in Japem, 
eloses, for the confidential information of the Seerstary
of the Treasury, a memorandum in which is set forth eer-
taim additional information received from the Amerioam
Ambassador at Tokyo on the subject under diseussiem.
Enclosure:
Momorandum under
date February 9,
1937.
A trmo ely
F/G
the sig
na).
neus
m. m.H
EA
FE
FE:RCM:EJL
CRV SM
2/9/37
FEB 10 1937.

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.95)
P0b7 9, 1.
CONFIDENTIAL
(Based on information received from the
American Embassy at Tokyo.)
The cabimet of Hayashi is mot supperted by the
political parties, has no decided complexien, end hesm
marked theories er convietions. However, mere mature
public opimion inolines toward the belier that the mew
Cabinet is less colorless than was at first thought.
Although this Cabinet is under military influenee to a
somewhat greater extent than the Hirota Cabinet was, it
is likely that on acsount of the attitude of the military
leaders this influenoe will be exerted with restraimt.
There are indications that the Army leaders will awmit
the development of the mew reactionary political party,
which will support and be supported by the Army, befare
asserting further their power.
Hayashi, who has had little experience in govermment
and polities, is exelusively a soldier and is inflmsatial
in Army ciroles. He is honest, straightforward, and
rational but not a foreeful aharacter. The Mimister of
War (Makamara) and the Minister of the Mavy (Yomai) are
good service men but little kaewm outside the Army and
Mavy. It is the general belief that the strong figure in
the Cabinet is Yaki (Minister of Finance) whe is a
follower

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.95)
Follever end pretege of Takabesnt (
Pinence) whese cauticus financial peliciee 
Se expested to follow with temasity. It is
lleved thet Tuld will ty as far as the militany
to reduee the financial burden on the Japanese
will not endanger the financial stresture of the
members are well known to the publie and nome are o
standing in reputation.
The vagueness of the Cabinet's supposed polieies, 
published in the press, illustrates the indetermimate
character of that body. These polioies are
(a) Righteous administration under the Imperial
Constitution;
(b) Complete clarification of the national politys
(e) Development of national industry and repletiem of
national defense;
(d) Establishment of a definite diplomatio poliey.
Undoubtedly the Hayashi Cabinet will meet opposisiem
in the Diet but it is not believed that the politisiams
will go to extremes in their eritieism as too strong op-
position would result in the dissolution of the Dist. It
is the general opinion that the new Cabinet perhaps com-
stitutes a short step on the way to some kind of Japanems
Faseiam and that it is a temporary and transitiomal goverm-

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.92)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 8 -
meat intended to tide over a politieal erisis. The
general weakness of the Cabinet ad the absenee ef mepmeers
from the political parties (nome of the Cabimet beins
members of political parties) would seem to perteed a
shert life. However, in Japan, Cabinets of this kime
often live longer than erpested and some ebservers think
that unless this Cabinet is overthrown by seme wmfereseem
cause it will survive for about one year.
FEB 10 1937.
CR
m,m..
rews
EA
FE:RCM:EJL
FE

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
U
This telegram must be
Tokyo
closely paraphrased
before beingcommunicated
Dated February 8, 193
FROM
to anyone. (B)
ec'a 9:10 a.m
COPIES SENT TO
Secretary of State
O.N.I.ANDM.I.D.
Civisi
IAH EASTERN AFFAIRS
Washington
994.02
49, February 8, 7 p.m.
Department of State
no6
894.00/691
894.002
The policies of the Hayashi cabinet were announced
this afternoon. Four of the five consist of elaborations
of the policies listed in paragraph five of the Embassy's
43 and the fifth has to do with enhancement of the welfare
of the nation thrcugh encouragement of industry. The
statement of policy is worded in general and nebulous terms
and is ot sufficiently specific to justify cabling.
Despatch follows.
Repeated to Nanking by mail.
PELId
GREW
KLP
F/G

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.91)
CON
Leam mbassy at Tokye reeds subetastially
On the afternoom of Februery 8 ammemmeemems
or the policies of the Hayashi Cabinet. There were rit
policies annousoed, four of whion were elaboratioms of
those published in the press as deseribed in the
telegram (No. 43) of Tebruary 6. The fifth poliey relate
to enhancement of the nation's welfare through the
agement of industry. On account of the general md mobe
lous terms in which the statement was worded the Ambessmess
felt that it was not specifio enough to justify him im
sonding it by cable but he added that it is being sent
forward in despaton form.
894.00/691
W7
£g.C.
FE:EGC
F$
m. th
II-8-37

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.97)
SIATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CONFIDENTIAL
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
FEB8-1937
il
February 2, 1937.
CONFIDENTIAL
Mr. Secretary:
FEB 4
1937
入
Cabinet crisis in Japan.
894.
NOTED
Mr. Grew telegraphs today from Tokyo that the Cabinet
99.
formed by General Hayashi was installed this morning and
that the reaction in Japan to.the new Cabinet is favorable.
894.00/692
The Prime Minister will be concurrently Minister for
Foreign Affairs and Minister of Education. There are ten
other Cabinet posts, each one of which is ordinarily as-
signed to a Cabinet officer, but, according to Mr. Grew,
these posts have been distributed among seven Cabinet of-
ficers, three of whom will hold concurrent posts. This
fact lends color to press reports that the Army obtained
General Hayashi's promise to make extensive administrative
changes before it permitted one of its officers to enter
the present Cabinet.
General Hayashi is known to be a man of resolute
FED 15.1937
character. He was decorated for bravery in the Russo-
Japanese War, and in 193l, while in command of the Japa-
nese forces in Korea, he despatched his troops to
Manchuria as soon as he heard of the Mukden Incident,
without awaiting orders from the authorities in Tokyo.
In l934, he replaced the notorious General Araki as
Minister of War and forced out of key positions a number
of

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
of officers who were unduly involved in political matters.
Following the coup de main of February 26, 1936, when
several leading statesmen were assassinated by the mili-
tary, he resigned his office and shortly thereafter re-
tired from the Army.
General Hayashi may be regarded as a "moderate" Army
man. He is a close friend of General Ugaki, who was
unable to constitute a Cabinet, and it is not unlikely
that he will lean on General Ugaki for guidance.
in tte Dapartat
Nothing definite is known of the character and
temperament of General Nakamura, the new Minister of War.
It may be mentioned that he was recently commander of the
Japanese forces in north China. Admiral Tonai, the new
Minister of the Navy, is reputed to be one of the most
able and forceful fleet commanders in the Japanese Navy.
He has not taken a prominent part, if indeed he has taken
any part, in political agitation.
Mr. Grew reports that the appointment as Minister of
Finance of Mr. Yuki, recently Governor of the Industrial
Bank (semi-official), has served to quiet the fears in
Japanese economic circles.
Of the other Cabinet officers it may be said that
only one, the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, is
associated with any political party. The others may be
classified as "bureaucrats".
Press

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.96)
- 3 -
Press reports have indicated that it is the intention
of General Hayashi to appoint Hirosi Saito, Japanese Ambassador
to the United States, as Minister for Foreign Affairs. The
Embassy at Tokyo reports that it has no information in
confirmation of this story. A discreet inquiry made orally
and confidentially to an officer of the Japanese Embassy
here by Mr. Dooman of FE has elicited a reply indicating
that there is warrant for some doubt whether this appointment
will be made.
Prophecy or estimate with regard to the probable
policies of the new Cabinet would not be warranted on the
basis of the information thus far available. Our Embassy
at Tokyo states that it will send us an analysis.
S
m. m.A
FE:D/DLY:REK

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.95)
56-1
MANS'NDVIGER
HF
FE 12 1937
NENT OF STATE
TELEGRAM RELEIY
February 10 1937
U
This telegoam must be
Tokyo
closely paraphrased
FROM
before being communicated
Dated February 10, 1937
to anyone. (B)
Littu 5
Rec'd 9:30 a.m.
Tuaeury
Secretary of State
nees
Division of
Washington
FAR EASLERIDAFFAIRS
O.N.I. ANDM.LD.
52, February 10, 7 p.m.
Department of State
894.00/693
Embassy's 43, February 6, 11 a.m.
Two appointments of significance were made yesterday:
-1
One. General Nakamura has resigned as War Minister
because of illness (apparently real) and last night
General Hajime Sugiyama, Inspector-General of Military
Training, was appointed as his successor. Sugiyama has
a stronger character is better known, and enjoys the
confidence f the army to a greater extent that Nakamura.
He has had wide experience both at home and abroad and
1937
has successfully held important posts in the army organi-
zation. He is an advocate of an augmented military machine
His appointment will undoubtedly strengthen the military
influence in the Cabinet and on the other hand will en-
hance discipline within the army. The Cabinet will be
strengthened by the acquisition of Sugiyama but as he will
probably insist upon the approval of the proposed military
budget the Cabinet's financial difficulties will not be
lessened. Sugiyama was succeeded as Inspector-General of
F
Military Trai ing by Terauchi, former War Minister.
G
Two.

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.99)
56-2
U -2- £52, Feb. 10, 7 p.m. from Tokyo
Two. Fukai resigned on the 8th as Governor of the
Bank of Japan and yesterday Seihiu Ikeda, formerly managing
director of the Mitsui Organization, was appointed as
his successor and Juichi Tsushima, formerly Vice Minister
of Finance and financial commissioner at New York and
London, was appointed Vice Governor. Both are well
known to American financial circles. It is reported that
Ikeda will follow a more positive policy of cooperation
with financial and industrial circles than did Fukai who
was regarded by financiers here as more of a scholar and
theorist than a practical banker. The appointments of
Ikeda and Tsushima are welcomed by financial circles in
Japan which believe that with Yuki a strong triumvirate
has been formed which while giving all possible assistance
to industry will be able to steady the dis  rbed
financial situation in Japan.
Repeated to Nanking by mail.
GREW
RR:CSB

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.88)
(OCTIAL)
56-3
Ameriean Imbassy at Tokye reada eabstastially es
00
ficanse made.
012
ing, mas appolated to sueceed him. Gemeral sugiyem,
enjoye the aray's conridenee to a greater degree them e
Nakamure, is better kmown, and is a man ef stronger eherestems
has held successfully impertant posts in the army crgemimasion
and has had wide experienee abroad as well es at home. sugi-
yame believes in an enlarged military mehise and there is me
doubt that his appoiztment will emhanee diseipline within the
army and strengthen the influemee of the military is the Cab-
inet. 1lthough the Cabinet will be strengthened by the addi
tion of Sugiyame to its membership, its fimancial diffiemlties
will not be lessened as it is likely that he will insiss upem
approval of the proposed military budget. Teramehi, formerly
Minister of War, was appointed to suceeed Sugiyamm as Inapes-
tor General of Military Training.
The Governor of the Bank of Japan (Fakai) resigmed om
Fuber Eigo
February 8 and Seihiu Ikeda has been appointed to suseeed
OBF
him.7 Ikeda formerly was Maneging Direetor of the Mitsul
organization. Juichi Tsushimm, former Vise Misister of
03
Fimense

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.91)
-8-
CONFIDENTIAL
Fimanee and Finaneial Commissiomer at Londom and New
Tork was appointed Vioe Governor of the Bank of Japam.
Ikeda and Tsushim are well known to finaneial sireles
in America. Fukai was considered by finaneiers in Tokyo
as not so muoh a prectical banker es a theorist and soholar
end it is oaid that Ikeda will pureue a more positive polley
of cooperation witn industriai and financlal cireles than
relecesaes.fn nolnlireles in Jepan woloo
Ixeda's and Tausniws's appointments and feel that they with
Yuki (Minister of Finanee) form a strong triumvirate which
will be able to steady Japan's disturbed fimanoial situatiom
while giving to industry all possible assistanee.
896.00/695
Eg.C.
FE:EOC
mm.x
II-10-37

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.93)
Fobruary 10 1957
In reply refer to
π894.00/695
CONLIDENTIAL
The Seeretary of State presents his complimemts to
the Honorable the Seeretary of the Treasury and, with
894.00/693
reference to this Department's letter of February 10 to
whieh was attached a memoramdum in regard to the fema-
tion of a mew Cabinet in Japan, encloses, for the eomfi-
dential information of the Seeretary of the Treasury, a
further memorandum on the subject under referemce whieh
is based on information transmitted to the Department by
the American Ambassador at Tokyo on February 10.
Enclosure:
Memorandum under
date February 10,
1937.
A trug copy of
The shaned origh
QR
EL
y.o.N.
nev
FE
FE:RCM:EJL
SKP
SKH
F/G
2/10/37

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.96)
SOHEIPENTIAL
February 10, 19
CONFIDENTIAL
MEMORANDIN
(Based on information received from the
American Embassy at Tokyo cn February 10, 1957.)
On February 9 there were made two appointments of
significance.
Because of illness, which apprently is gammime, the
Mimister of War (General Nakamura) resigmed, and last
night (February 9) there was appointed as his sueeesser
General Hajime Sugiyame, Inspestor-General of Military
Training. The probability is that the Cabinet's fimameial
difficulties will not be lessened by this appeintment, as
it seems likely that Sugiyama will insist on the approval
of the proposed military budget.
The Governor of the Bank of Japan (Fuka1) resigned on
February 8 and Seihiu Ikeda has been appointed to sueceed
him. Ikeda formerly was Managing Direotor of the Mitsui
organization. Juichi Tsushima, former Vice Minister of
Finance and Financial Commissioner at London and Mew York
was appointed Vice Governor of the Bank of Japan. Ikeda
and Tsushima are well known to financial eiroles in America.
Fukai was considered by financiers in Tokyo as mot so mmeh
a practical banker as a theorist and schelar and it is said
that Ikeda will pursue a more positive poliey of
sooperation

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.83)
一8-
eseperatien with industrial end finsneial eireles
did his predesessor. Pinaneial sireles in Japem wel
which will be able to steedy Japan's disturbed fimmmmial
sitmatiom while giving to industry all pessible assistemes.
ne
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
m1√

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.98)
894.00
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE893.00/13970
FOR
Memorandum
State Department
Far Eastern Division
894.00
FROM
(Vincent
) DATED Feb6.1937
TO
NAME
1-1127
The situation in the Far East: developments of the past week 9
REGARDING:
in regard to cabinet crisis in Japan; general political situeo
tion in Japan.
4
FRG.
G

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.97)
57-1
老
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
U
GRAY
1-1836
FROM
Tokyo
Dated February 15, 1937
Rec'd 8:55 a.m.
lal
Secretary of State
COPIES SENT TO
Washington
O.N.I. AND M. LD.
57, February 15, 6 p.m.
691
Embassy's 49, February 8, 7 p.m.
894.00/695
One. General Hayashi's speech before the House
10.8F
of Peers this morning was nlacatory in tone indicating
the Cebinet's wish to cooperate with and not to dissolve
H
the Diet. He reiterated his policies without further
elucidation and very briefly discussed the revised and re-
duced budget and the necessity for the propo sed increase
of taxes.
Two. In the part of his speech devoted to foreign
policies he stressed the necessity for China's understanding
of Japan's attitude toward that country and urged the
FTLED
development of "mutual appreciation" and "closer contacts
1937
between the two governments and peoples as well as "con-
crete cooperation" and "mutual assistance" indicating a
trend toward a more friendly and less aggressive attitude
toward Chira. The tone of the reference to the Soviet Union
was firm, urging the Soviets to "take a broad view and
cooperate with us" in the settlements of pending questions.
Following

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.97)
57-2
U -2- #57, Feb. 15, 6 p.m. fram Tokyo
Following the reference to Soviet-Japanese relations
moreover he strongly affirmed the timelinessand necessity
of theGerman-Japan ese anti-Comintern agreement. In regard
to relations with the United States, he said "Japan's
policy of promoting friendship with Great Britain and the
COUNTRY
United States is immutable. Between the former/puntrte
公
and ours there exist questions of various sorts
requiring adjustment". He said not hing of questions pending
between the United States and Japan. Amau'intimated to me
on the llth that this omission would be made intentionally
as Hayashi wished to convey the impression that relations
with the United States are satisfactory.
Repeated )by mail to Nanking.
GREW
RR
WNC
()pparont-omission.
m

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.89)
a
DEPARTMENTOPSTAIC
UNITED STATES OF AM
1937 FEB 19 AM 11 08
No. 2209
AMERICANEMBASSY
Tokyo, January 1, 1937
COMMULIATIONS
AND RE GOBDS
SUBJECT:
GENERAL SITUATION FACING JAPAN AT THE
OPENING OF THE YEAR 1937.
894.0
SMCILY CONFIDEN
ONI
MID
Eojri sont to ows
fele
to Fondon Emobossy
m/0.
epy
Efeerpts to Commere
894.00/696
th
Aud dreacuary.
Strictly Confidential
48么
Feb.26,1937
aepcsq
Confidential
Hay in FE
2N0
1t
A2 17
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
S i r:
567
APR 22 1937
Reverting to the Embassy's despatch No. 1630 of
FILHD
January 7, 1936, I have the honor to submit to the
Department the following survey of the situation con-
fronting Japan at the opening of the year 1937.
contents
11

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2-
Contents
Political
Page
Foreign....
3
Japan's Relations with:
United States.
3,4,5
China.
5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10
Soviet Russia.
10, 11, 12, 13
Germany....
13
Italy.
14
Great Britain..
14, 15, 16
Netherlands.
16, 17, 18
Domes tic.
18, 19, 20, 21
Military..
21,22,23,24,25,26
Naval
26,27,28,29,30
Economic.
30,31,32,33,34,35
Financial.
36,37,38,39,40,41
10
0
9

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.99)
b
58-1
- 3 -
POLITICAL
Foreign
The New Year for Japan, so far as her international
relations are concerned, opens in an ominous key. Not
only has her reputation in the world suffered an important
deterioration during the past year, but her relations with
Great Britain, Soviet Russia and China are on a far from
satisfactory footing and recently have been growing worse.
With the Dutch East Indies relations have improved. Only
with the United States, among her nearer neighbors, can it
9
be said that the status quo has been maintained, but with
the expiration of the Washington Naval Treaty, due to Japan's
intransigence, and the risk of a race in sea power and
fortifications, the long future as contrasted with the
immediate present holds out no evident grounds for optim-
ism. For this unhappy situation Japan herself is primarily
to blame, for she has played her cards unwisely and is now
reaping the logical result. It is the old story of the
defects arising out of a dual control of foreign policy
wherein the civil authorities of the Government, including
the Prime Minister and the Foreign Office, are overridden
by the military and are subject to the behests of the Army
and Navy which know or care little about developing good
relations with foreign countries but without whose support
the Cabinet could not long survive. We saw very much the
same thing working out in Germany in 1914.
Un i t e a s t a t e s
General Araki observed to the British Ambassador a
year or two ago that if it were not for the exclusion
clause

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.99)
58-2
- 4 -
clause of the Immigration Act of 1924, the relations
between Japan and the United States might be considered
as thoroughly satisfactory. While it is true that no
current controversies of prime importance are at present
sufficiently acute seriously to disturb those relations,
nevertheless we should not close our eyes to the fact
that several current issues may in due course become
acute and are potentially hazardous. First and foremost
is the naval issue which has automatically arisen with
the termination of the Washington Naval Treaty. How the
future will shape up in this respect we cannot yet fore-
see, but it is safe to say that if a race in naval build-
ing and in the construction of fortifications results, the
suspicion and uneasiness engendered will inevitably make
for tenseness in those relations. Other issues which
appear to be potentially disturbing are Japan's aggressive
policy in China with the possibility of that policy even-
tually interfering with American interests, and the flood-
ing of American markets with Japanese low-priced goods
against which we may ultimately be obliged to protect
ourselves with resultant international friction and irri-
tation. It appears unnecessary, however, to cross these
bridges until we come to them. The forthcoming unofficial
visit of representatives of American cotton textile manu-
facturers, who will endeavor to arrange a gentlemen's
agreement for the voluntary restriction by the Japanese
of their textile exports to the United States is a step
in the right direction to avoid the necessity of crossing
that particular bridge at all.
The Philippine Islands also remain as a potential,
although

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.99)
58-3
- 5 -
although not an immediate, source of danger to the rela-
tions between Japan and the United States. The Davao land
question, quiescent for the moment, may arise again and
necessitate intervention by the American Government. The
strengthening of American naval and army bases in the
Philippines, and the further development of American air
services to and within the islands (thus tending to check
Japan's southward advance") would certainly act as an
irritant to the relations between the two countries. How-
ever, this again is a bridge which need not be crossed at
present.
Other current controversies such as the petroleum
problem, fisheries, et cetera, are susceptible of adjustment
by negotiation and in any case are not, at present at least,
of sufficient seriousness to disturb the even tenor of our
general relations. There is no good reason to believe that
these general relations may not maintain their present
satisfactory status for some time to come. On the contrary
there is very good reason to feel that the Japanese Govern-
ment values American friendship, especially in view of
Japan's increasing difficulties with other nations, and
will not purposely alienate the United States unless situa-
tions arise where Japan considers her own national interests
to be acutely involved. The outlook for l937, so far as
Japanese-American relations are concerned, therefore would
not at present appear to justify pessimism.
C h i n a
A recent series of articles in the Osaka MAINICHI by
Kumataro Honda, ex-Ambassador to Germany, castigates the
Government

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.99)
58-4
- 6 -
Government for what he calls "diplomacy by slogans, and
so far as China is concerned the term is apt. In 1931
and l932 the current slogan was Manchuria the Life-Line
of Japan. Once the Manchurian situation had been dealt
with, a new slogan shortly was heard: Japan the Stabi-
lizing Factor in East Asia". This latter slogan soon
developed into Hirota's three points for settling Japan's
relations with China, namely, the checking by the Chinese
Government of anti-Japanese activities and propaganda,
Sino-Japanese cooperation against communism and the
stabilizing of China's factual relations with "Manchukuo.*
Obviously these points were susceptible of a very broad
interpretation. Later, as various anti-Japanese incidents
took place in China, one series of "demands" after another
were formulated and publicly announced in a truculent and
aggressive tone. The failure of Japan's diplomacy and
consequent loss of face in China arise from the fact that
save in a few instances where local incidents have been
settled through minor concessions, few if any of these
general demands have been met. Protracted conferences
have taken place in Nanking and official announcements
have frequently been made in Tokyo to the effect that the
negotiations were proceeding, but so far as the Embassy is
aware they have led nowhere. Their failure has been ascribed
to China's "insincerity", a somewhat overworked expression
habitually and indiscriminately used by the Japanese to
characterize those foreign governments which fail to con-
cede Japan's desiderata by signing on the dotted line.
While
These points have been variously reported and variously
interpreted. They are set down here as described to me
by Mr. Hirota himself. J.C.G.

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.99)
58-5
- 7 -
While this Embassy is not informed of the specific results
of the Nanking conversations, it would seem that the
astuteness rather than the insincerity of the Chinese
Government has succeeded in playing the Japanese negotia-
tors along without surrendering Chinese sovereign rights.
Moreover serious military involvement in China has been
avoided by the Japanese Army because of the remarkably
improved morale and military forces of China and of the
changed situation in Siberia--a very different Eastern
Asia from 1932.
It does not appear necessary, for the purpose of this
report, to deal extensively or in detail with Japan's
diplomacy and activities in China during the past year.
Suffice it to say that the overt intention and efforts
of the Japanese military to detach the five northern pro-
vinces from the jurisdiction of Nanking largely miscarried;
that the support of the Japanese military of the widespread
smuggling operations not only became an international scan-
dal but went far to bring down on Japan the censure of
foreign countries including the United States and Great
Britain; and that, far from cooperating with Nanking in
an effort to control the anti-Japanese sentiment rapidly
developing throughout China, the Japanese have constantly
intensified that sentiment by their truculent and aggressive
attitude and tactics. Thus the Chengtu incident, wherein
Japanese lives were lost, was caused by their shortsighted
attempt to force the opening of their consulate in that
place which had been closed for some five years, in the
face of Chinese opposition, and this incident, whether
directly or indirectly, led to similar incidents at Pakhoi,
Hankow,

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.99)
58-6
- 8 -
Hankow, Shanghai, Changsha and Tsingtao. Each of these
several incidents, involving the death or injury of
Japanese subjects, led to violent demands for satisfaction
which in the majority of the cases have not been fully met.
Thus Japan has lost face, further anti-Japanese sentiment
has been evoked and a thoroughly vicious circle established.
Japanese support of the invasion of Suiyuan by Mongol troops
appears similarly to have miscarried and to have served
only to increase anti-Japanese feeling throughout the
country.
As Mr. Takao Saito, a leading member of the Minseito
Party, recently wrote in the ASAHI:
What is to be Japan's relation to China?
It is said ad nauseam that Japan's policy is to be
China's friend, that Japan's policy is to cooperate
with China for the sake of peace in the Far East,
and so forth. These phrases have been preached
for years, but I have yet to see any manifesta-
tions of actual friendliness in Sino-Japanese
relations.
"Had there been such manifestations there
could hardly have occurred the anti-Japanese
incidents which have taken place all over China.
Probably the real cause of animosity between the
two countries is that Japan, while asserting a
policy of friendship and understanding, takes
the attitude of continual readiness to knock
her neighbor down. Whether or not this is a
true characterization of Japan's policy is beside
the point; the fact is that real cooperation
requires abandoning the attitude. I believe it
is time for us to look into our continental
policy fundamentally."
Now, at the opening of the new year, the Japanese
program in China, whatever it may be, appears to have
come to a temporary halt owing to the new developments
arising out of the capture and subsequent release of
Chiang Kai-shek by Marshal Chang Hsueh-liang. The
Japanese are clearly marking time. Whether these develop-
ments will lead to an intensification of the anti-Japanese
movement

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.99)
587
-9 -
movement in China and whether, and to what extent, they
will induce a stiffening of the future policy of Nanking
remains to be seen. Similarly, there is as yet no indica-
tion as to how they may affect the immediate development
of Japan's policy and tactics in China. Japan has seriously
lost face through the failure of her negotiations with
Nanking. The Japanese Cabinet will be taxed with that
failure in the coming session of the Diet and while
Japanese Cabinets have a way of carrying on in spite of
censure and lost confidence, it is not inconceivable that
the Cabinet may fall. If it does fall there will be every
probability of the appointment of a more reactionary cabinet,
but whether the present Cabinet falls or not, no one can yet
predict with any assurance if the trend of policy during
the present year will aim to develop friendship with China
on a more stable basis or will move in the direction of
more positive aggressiveness. The outlook in that respect
is still quite nebulous.
The Japanese nation seems to be somewhat thunderstruck
by the sudden and unexpected determination of China to yield
no more to Japanese pressure. The nation is, figuratively,
scratching its head and wondering what it should do next.
There has been some discussion in the newspapers of a
reorientation of policy toward China, but there has been
no indication as yet of the direction which that reorienta-
tion will take. It is strange but true that Japan appears
to have been the last to appreciate the changed conditions
in China. Now that Japan realizes that its bluff of military
pressure no longer works, some other aggressive method of
dominating North China may be tried. Economic cooperation,
with

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.99)
58-8
- 10 -
with emphasis on its aim being, "improvement of the
condition of the people", is an old army plan that is
being advocated increasingly by army spokesmen which
might be an outlet for Japanese expansionist activities,
not too objectionable to the Nanking Government. For
the present it appears that Japan is not attracted by
the thought of a frontal attack, on her own volition,
against Nanking. More probable is the method of peri-
pheral penetration and digging in in North China and
along the Mongolian frontier.
There can be no doubt as to the soundness of the
statements contained in the final paragraph of our des-
patch No. 1630 of January 7, 1936, surveying the general
situation facing Japan at the commencement of the last
year, which said, in relation to Japan's policy with China:
"The procedure to be followed and the methods
to be pursued are open to influence by some or
all of the factors suggested in this despatch,
but the expansionist urge is fundamental, and
I think there is no doubt that whether quietly
and gradually or openly and aggressively Japanese
energies will be found, from now on, steadily
directed towards consolidating Japan's control
in North China and Mongolia as a primary axiom
of her future strategic safety and economic
welfare."
Sov i et R us s i a.
Good relations between Japan and Soviet Russia in the
present political era are an anachronism. Apart from
frontier incidents and other minor troubles it is per-
fectly obvious that Russia's well justified fears of
eventual Japanese expansion into Mongolia and Siberia on
the one hand, coupled with Japan's fear of the spread of
communism in neighboring territory on the other hand, are
in

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.99)
58-9
-11 -
in themselves sufficient to prevent the development of
any basis of mutual confidence. Nevertheless, up to the
month of last November, diplomatic efforts had succeeded
in elaborating a fair modus vivendi under which Soviet-
Japanese relations might be carried along for the time
being without too great risk of critical developments.
The appointment of a mixed commission to consider frontier
questions had been accepted in principle and a fisheries
treaty, distinctly favorable to Japan, had been initialled
and was ready to be signed on November 20. The Soviet
defenses in Siberia and Vladivostok, coupled with the
double-tracking of the Siberian Railway, had been brought
to a point of effectiveness where Moscow could afford to
regard the bluster and sabre-rattling of the Kwantung Army
with a degree of cynical tolerance, while the Japanese on
the other hand were too busy modernizing their army and
aiming to strengthen their forces in Manchuria to a point
of reasonable balance with the Soviet forces to the north
to seek further grounds for early conflict.
This temporary amelioration in Soviet-Japanese rela-
tions, however, was rudely shattered by the conclusion of
the Japanese pact with Germany. While ostensibly the pact
aims only at cooperation in combating the activities of the
Comintern in spreading communistic propaganda and practice
abroad and is therefore not openly directed against the
Soviet Government, nevertheless the existence of a secret
understanding or agreement between the General Staffs of
the two countries is generally accepted as fact and the
Soviet Ambassador in Tokyo asserts that Moscow is in pos-
session of precise evidence to that effect. Political
opponents

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.99)
58-10
-12 -
opponents of the Cabinet in Japan maintain that if the
news of this pact had not been permitted to leak before
November 20, the Soviet-Japanese fisheries treaty would
have been signed and all would have been well and they
therefore charge the Foreign Minister with a grave blunder
in allowing this leakage. But it is inconceivable that
Moscow was not well aware, long before that date, of what
was going on in Berlin, and the blunder, if such it was,
would seem to lie not with the leakage before a certain
date but in entering into any such pact at all. The
explanation is simple. The pact and whatever secret
agreement may be attached to it were concluded by the
Japanese military, the negotiations with Germany having
been largely carried on by Major General Oshima, the
Japanese Military Attaché in Berlin. We do not know
whether these negotiations were conducted with the blessing
of the Japanese Foreign Office, but since the Foreign
Office has long been assiduously working to improve and
stabilize Japan's relations with the USSR as a matter of
major policy, it is reasonable to question whether the
shattering effect on those relations of a pact with Ger-
many would not have been abundantly clear in advance and
whether the civil Government in Tokyo could have been in
sympathy with so sharp a divergence in the political
orientation of Japan's diplomacy. Certainly the pact has
called forth widespread criticism throughout Japan. Here
again the dual system of policy control in Japan would
seem to have manifested itself. At any rate, the die is
now cast and it is obvious that Japan's relations with
Soviet

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.98)
58-11
- 13 -
Soviet Russia have suffered a rude setback which is not
likely to be overcome in the near future. Moreover we
may be sure that the Soviet Government will continue to
act on the principle that the only language understood
by the Japanese is force, and that when struck, whether
by a minor frontier incursion or by some broader form of
aggression, the wisest policy to follow is promptly to
strike back with double the force.
G e r m a n y
That the treaty between Japan and Germany envisages
anything in the nature of a pact of military mutual assist-
ance in case of war seems highly unlikely. It is said that
Japan did her best to get Poland to participate in the
arrangement with Germany but without success, and with
Poland independent of commitments, and with France at
Germany's back, it is hardly likely that Germany would
undertake to attack Russia in case of a Soviet war with
Japan. Nevertheless the existence of an agreement for an
exchange of military information and for the supply of
arms and ammunition and technical aid to Japan in return
for commercial commodities from Manchuria is a reasonable
hypothesis. Whatever the precise nature of the agreement
concluded, it is evident that a new orientation has arisen
in Japan's policy, that her relations with Germany are
likely to be strengthened as time goes on and that this
new orientation is bound, whether intentionally or other-
wise, to react unfavorably on any improvement of Japan's
relations not only with Soviet Russia but with Great Britain
and other democracies as well.
I t a 1 y

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.99)
58-12.
- 14 -
I t a 1 y
While there is no good reason to believe that Japan
is purposely aligning herself with a Fascist bloc, never-
theless her recent almost simultaneous pacts with both
Germany and Italy have naturally given rise to such a
theory. In actual fact, the agreements by which Japan
will withdraw her Legation from Addis Ababa and substitute
therefor a Consulate, while Italy opens a Consulate General
in Mukden, thereby implying de facto recognition respectively
of the Italian acquisition of Ethiopia and of the inde-
pendence" of "Manchukuo", would appear to envisage reci-
procally privileged trade relations rather than to have
any important political bearing.
Great Britain
Japan would like good relations with Great Britain
but, as the British Ambassador recently said to me, she
would like them on the basis of "all take and no give".
Sir Robert Clive says that his Military Attaché is con-
stantly telling him how very friendly and cordial the
Japanese army officers are to him, to which the Ambassador
replies that this cordiality is but skin-deep and is in-
duced solely by the consideration that the Japanese Army
has at last awakened to the fact that in the event of a
Japanese war with Soviet Russia Great Britain might not
preserve even a benevolent neutrality. This fact gives
them pause. A large element of the British people today
are anti-Japanese in sentiment as a result of the Man-
churian episode, Japan's aggressiveness in China, trade
questions, the Keelung incident and other controversies.
In the meantime no serious setbacks in Great Britain's
relations

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.99)
58-13
-15 -
relations with Soviet Russia have occurred during the
past three years. These relations are not cordial but
they are at least satisfactory. The Soviets know that
communistic propaganda in Great Britain will not be
tolerated. Naval and trade agreements have been concluded.
Thus the former enmity of the two countries is largely
evaporating while Britain's relations with Japan have
steadily grown worse, and the Japanese Army has at last
grasped the possible future implications of these develop-
ments which are beginning to cause anxiety. Under these
circumstances it is not surprising that Japanese army
officers should go out of their way to be cordial to
their British confreres.
Potentially serious is the Japanese program of con-
trol in various parts of China because such control is
certain, sooner or later, to interfere with British in-
terests in that country. The notorious Amau Staten it
and other pronouncements of Japanese policy relating to
China have not served to render any less determined Great
Britain's intention to support and develop those interests,
and it is reasonable to surmise that, if carried to their
logical conclusion, the respective policies of Great Britain
and Japan in China are bound to clash.
In the meantime Anglo-Japanese relations have been
rendered difficult by trade controversies in India, Australia,
and elsewhere, and by the oil question, while the Keelung
incident, wherein British naval seamen are alleged to have
been assaulted and injured by Japanese police in Formosa,
has further embittered these relations. As the Japanese
Government has, up to the present, refused to make adequate
amends

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.99)
58-14
-16 -
amends for this incident, the situation has come to an
impasse. The Commander-in-Chief of the British East
Asiatic Fleet has postponed his official scheduled visit
to Japan while embarrassing questions have been asked and
resolutions introduced in the British Parliament. Although
Prince Chichibu, the Emperor's brother, is to represent the
Emperor at the forthcoming Coronation in London in May, it
would appear, under present circumstances, that he may not
receive so warm a welcome as would have been the case a few
years ago.
In Japan itself, much outspoken criticism is heard by
those who dislike the agreement with Germany and who would
prefer to strengthen the old Anglo-Japanese friendship, a
friendship which at present is distinctly on the decline.
N e t h e r 1 an d s
Relations with the Netherlands have improved measurably
during the past year due to the ironing out of the trade
and economic difficulties with the Dutch East Indies. The
first obstacle to good relations was removed by the final
settlement of the protracted shipping dispute and with that
out of the way satisfactory progress is now being made in
connection with the much desired commercial treaty.
It will be recalled that in 1934 the Japanese sent a
commercial mission to The Hague, headed by a man of am-
bassadorial rank, for the purpose of inaugurating negotia-
tions for a commercial treaty. This commission so antago-
nized the Netherlands Government by its inept use of
publicity and its attempt to address the people directly,
with promises of cheap goods, that although six months
were spent in Holland they were at length forced to return
with

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.99)
58-15
-17 -
with no result. When the shipping dispute arose the
Japanese attempted to use the negotiations on this ques-
tion as a lever to force the matter of the commeroial
treaty negotiations but the Dutch stood firm and refused
flatly to take up the question of the commercial treaty
until after the shipping matter was out of the way. They
eventually won their point and the Japanese ceased their
dilatory and obstructionist tactics with the result that
last year the shipping question was settled to the satis-
faction of both parties.
Negotiations were then resumed on the question of the
commercial treaty and are now in progress between the
Japanese Consul General at Batavia and a member of the
East Indies Government appointed for that purpose. It
was agreed that publicity should be confined to the
issuance of a simple communiqué stating that conversations
were under way and that nothing further should be given
out until the negotiations had reached a conclusion one
way or another. I am informed that they have now reached
a stage where a draft has been submitted to the home
government at The Hague for approval. In this connection
the question of sugar is a most important one, and it is
the object of the East Indies Government to arrange that
Jepan shall continue to purchase 90 per cent of their
totel sugar imports from Java; at the same time they
hoped to obtain a guarantee that Japan will not increase
the production of sugar in Formosa, although it is doubt-
ful whether they will be successful in this direction.
Much of the sugar imported by Japan from the East Indies
is re-exported to China. At first the Dutch objected to
this

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.99)
58-16
- 18 -
this but recently they have been willing to give way on
this point and have come to the conclusion that it is
just as profitable to sell sugar to Japan for re-export
as to attempt to increase their Chinese market at the
expense of the Japanese.
It will therefore be seen that considerable progress
has been made during the past year and that relations have
improved between the Netherlands and Japan and while, of
course, a wary and watchful eye is being kept upon Japan's
new policy of "Southward Advance", there is nothing on the
immediate horizon which should interfere with continued
improvement of relations between these two countries.
A tentative invitation from the Japanese Government
to the Netherlands to send its fleet on an official visit
has been tacitly left in abeyance for the present owing
to the desire of the Netherlands Government to afford at
least moral support to the British Government in its
attitude towards the Keelung incident, mentioned elsewhere.
Domestic
Protest from the people is the significant new factor
in Japanese politics. As the year 1937 opens, popular
opposition to the Government's policies is making itself
felt with greater emphasis than at any time since before
1931. Cabinets in the past have been subjected to oppo-
sition pressure, but for many years no opposition has so
directly derived from the people themselves.
This does not mean that public opinion is even approach-
ing control. Far from it. There is, however, an encouraging
growth of popular sentiment that the people should have a
voice in current discussion of political questions.. This
sentiment

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.98)
58-17
-19-
sentiment, growing by reason of the economic and
political difficulties brought on the nation by the
military, lacks unification and leadership; but there
is in the movement some prospect of its eventually
developing into a check on the belligerent attitude of
the country now dictated by the military who are still
in the saddle. Observers have often felt that the
greatest international danger from Japan is the vul-
nerability of her system of government to the provoking
of a war not initiated by the desires of the people. Any
9
tendency for the people to demand the right to be con-
9
sulted is salutary. It is a long road to a mature ap-
preciation on the part of any population, no matter how
advanced in political experience, of the cost of war; but
the first stretches of that road -- possibly to be aban-
doned later -- have at least appeared in the virulence of
recent protest against the secret diplomacy which faced
the country with an accomplished fact. The country has
recognized the agreement with Germany as holding serious
dangers to Japan's position in the world. The protest
has rapidly spread to other subjects also. Public opinion
in Japan has a way of dissipating itself ineffectually,
and that may be the upshot of the present protest, but
as the year opens it is conspicuous and real.
In addition to the disapproval of the agreement with
Germany, of the failure of negotiations with Nanking, and
of the miscarriage of relations with the Soviet Union,
there are domestic factors contributing to the insecurity
of the Hirota Cabinet. When Hirota formed the Cabinet
after the incident of February 26, 1936, the military
apparently exacted from him a promise of action on clari-
fication

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.99)
- 20 -
fication of the national polity, improvement of the
livelihood of the people, strengthening of national
defense, and the adoption of a positive foreign policy.
On the latter two points Hirota has been obliging: the
military budget is sharply increased, and the army-favored
anti-communism agreement is certainly a concession to a
"positive" foreign policy. On the other two points, how-
ever, Hirota has temporized. Certain of the military were
pushing, under the first point, various proposals of ad-
ministrative and Diet reform, which Hirota effectively side-
stepped by endless reference to special commissions and
committees. Playing for time, he was finally aided by
other and more pressing political problems to distract
attention. The second point, improvement of the liveli-
hood of the people, has not been accorded even the pretense
of fulfillment. Rising prices, rising debt, and rising
taxes contradict the commitment; and what has been done
in the direction of control of the electric power industry
is poorly comprehended by and of doubtful advantage to the
people.
The military appear to be in position to oust the
Hirota Cabinet whenever desired, explaining their action,
when they decide to take it, on the ground of the Cabinet's
failure to execute the platform; but thus far there is no
indication that the military agree that any other cabinet
could do better. The military are still the dominant
influence in control of the Government and may continue to
be so during l937, but as evils caused by military domina-
tion continue to accumulate, sentiment against that domina-
tion increases in volume and force. One field of notable
opposition

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.99)
- 21 -
opposition is in financial and industrial circles, where
business is more and more openly resentful of fascist
tendencies of control by the Government. Another result
is increased confidence in the political parties as spokes-
men for the people. The parties are beginning to enjoy a
respect which they have not enjoyed for half a dozen years
past.
Meantime the Diet will meet with 44 per cent of the
seats of the lower house held by the Minseito, 36 per cent
by the Seiyukai, and the remaining 20 per cent divided
among Labor, other small parties, and independents. The
Minseito are represented in the Hirota Cabinet by the
Minister of Communications and the Minister of Commerce
and Industry, the Seiyukai by the Minister of Railways and
the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry. The most im-
portant ministers of the Hirota Cabinet do not have party
connections.
At the opening of 1937, to recapitulate, domestic
politics in Japan are characterized by popular criticism
of the Government (particularly for its foreign policy),
and public dissatisfaction with the mounting cost of living,
budget increase, and pressure of taxes. Against this op-
position the advantages enjoyed by the Hirota Cabinet in
its effort to stay in office are, first, that the military
(still in control) are not yet determined that a change
would be an improvement, and second, that the political
parties still lack unity of attack.
MILITARY
While there is no doubt that the Japanese Army
suffered a severe setback in public estimation as a
result

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.99)
- 22 -
result of the incident of February 26 last, nevertheless
subsequent developments have served to offset this un-
favorable opinion and to bring the Army back to a position
of strength and popularity in public opinion to a degree
even greater than formerly. The quick and bloodless
suppression of the insurrection and the efficient manner
in which order was restored by the Army authorities met
with public approval. In addition, the resignation of the
generals who held themselves responsible for the incident,
the drastic punishment of the officers convicted of direct
responsibility and the announced determination of the
military to purge the Army of the "direct actionists"
and to exact discipline throughout all ranks created a
very favorable impression on the public at large. General
Terauchi, the War Minister, has undoubtedly gone a long
way toward the suppression of the "direct action" elements
and the establishment of stricter discipline in the Army
and has also had a large measure of success in curbing
the political activities of officers on the active list.
Furthermore, the Army is credited with the definite in-
tention of forcing reorganization of the Government and
of effecting various social measures for the good of the
farming community and other elements of the people, all
of which has served to enhance its popularity.
Although the Army suffered a temporary loss of prestige
at the time of the February 26 Incident, its continued
influence on the political life of the nation was demon-
strated by the fact that, headed by General Terauchi, it
was the bulwark around which the new Cabinet was formed
and was the principal factor in shaping the new Government's
policy. In return for General Terauchi's promise of stricter
military

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.99)
- 23 -
military discipline, mentioned above, Mr. Hirota incorporated
four desiderata of the Army, and also of the insurgents
themselves, in the Government's platform: (1) clarification
of the national polity; (2) repletion of national defense;
(3) the adoption of a "positive" foreign policy; and (4)
stabilization of the livelihood of the people through the
establishment of state control of industries and finances,
the readjustment of taxation, the enactment of social legis-
lation, administrative reform, et cetera. It would seem
that the first three desires of the Army, above-mentioned,
have been fulfilled, although very little has been done
toward the "stabilization of the livelihood of the people.
The War Minister has repeatedly urged the Government to
expedite the adoption of the reforms comprised in this
shibboleth and the blame for slow progress in this line
has fallen on the civilian members of the Cabinet.
Thus, under the skillful and diplomatic leadership
of General Terauchi, the Army has been able to regain the
sympathy and support of the populace by espousing the
popular aims of the February 26 insurgents and on the
other hand by rigorously suppressing the unpopular "direct
action" elements in the Army.
While there is a current outcry in the press against
various blunders and failures in Japanese diplomacy, for
which the military are largely responsible, most of this
publicity comes from the politicians who are threatening
dire attacks on the Cabinet in the coming session of the
Diet. With the public at large however, these politicians
are in general discredited, as is the Diet as a whole,
owing to the many scandals arising out of individual cor-
ruption and the fact that few deputies after election make
any effort whatever to carry out their election promises.
The

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.99)
- 24 -
The fact that these parliamentarians are at present allowed
to attack the Cabinet in the press in unbridled terms is
in itself an indication that the military have full con-
fidence in their strength and popularity and there is every
probability that a good deal of the present fire and slaugh-
ter aired in the press by these politicians will peter out
when it comes to actual debate in the Diet.
Past experience with the Diet has shown that the
attacks against the military made in that body by isolated
though courageous liberals are apt to have little or no
effect on the policy of the Government.
So far as foreign policy is concerned, it is generally
conceded that the Army was responsible for the following
developments: the setting up by the North China Garrison
and the Kwantung Army of the Hopei-Chahar Political Council
and the East Hopei Autonomous Régime, nominally autonomous
but in reality under the control of the Japanese military
(it is reported that Japanese influence in the Hopei-Chahar
Political Council has been decreased through the efforts
of the Chinese Government); the instigation of the East
Suiyuan Mongols against the Chinese forces of that province;
and the conclusion of the Japanese-German anti-Comintern
agreement which was brought about largely through the
efforts of the Japanese Military Attaché in Berlin and Mr.
Toshio Shiratori, present Minister to Sweden, former tru-
culent spokesman of the Foreign office, and well-known for
a number of years for his close collaboration with the Army.
In the opinion of competent observers, the Italo-Japanese
modus vivendi in Ethiopia and Manchuria probably includes
a provision for technical military assistance to Japan.
Thus, the conclusion of the agreement with Italy fitted in
with

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.98)
- 25 -
with the desires of the military, whatever may have been
their part in fostering the agreement. Japanese opinion
varies as to the advisability of the above-mentioned moves
from the point of view of this country's general diplomatic
policy.
The public at large is aware of the announcements of
the military that there will be no aggression by force or
territorial acquisition in China end that the expansion of
Japanese interests will be effected by peaceful economic
penetration. This commends itself to the public. While
the conclusion of the anti-Comintern agreement with Germany
has undoubtedly aggravated diplomatic relations between
Japan end the USSR, the Kwantung Army's strongly entrenched
position in Manchuria did not seem in any way to be menaced
at the close of the year.
1
The people in general are inclined to hold the Foreign
Office rather than the Army responsible for the patent
failures in diplomacy which have occurred in various direc-
tions. On the other hand, the enlightened minority feels
perhaps more than ever that the Army is responsible for
the unpleasant diplomatic situation with which Japan is
now faced.
The important fact should not be overlooked that the
Cabinet's approval has been secured of military appropria-
tions in the 1937-38 budget of ¥727,965,556, the largest
Army appropriations in the history of Japan and an increase
of ¥219,648,856 over the 1936-37 figure. There is very
little likelihood that this amount will be materially
reduced by the Diet.
With regard to technical matters, the Japanese Army,
including

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.99)
- 26 -
including its air force, expanded numerically somewhat
during the year 1936. The North China Garrison was in-
creased to a strength of five or six thousand men. There
was an increase in the tank and air units of the Kwantung
Army, which otherwise was probably not increased signifi-
cantly in strength. Progress was made in the Army's moderni-
zation program, the Air Corps and Infantry and Field Artil-
lery regiments were reorganized, arms and equipment were
increased and improved, and the military forces familiarized
themselves with the technique of the new materiel. However,
no perceptible progress was made in the tactical employment
of new weapons or organizations.
As regards the outlook for l937, there are indications
that there will be further substantial increases in aviation
units, in weapons for infantry and artillery, and in the
strength of the Army, particularly in Manchuria. In general,
the Army will end the year 1937 stronger and better equipped
than ever but still behind the times in tactical training
and combat efficiency.
In conclusion, there seems to be no diminution in the
Army's influence on both the domestic and foreign policies
of Japan.
NAVAL
With the expiration on December 31, 1936, of the
Washington Naval Treaty of 192l-22 and of the London Naval
Treaty of 1930, Japan enters the new year in a non-treaty
status vis-à-vis the major naval Powers of the world. She
faces the possibility of unlimited competition in naval
construction from the United States and Great Britain and
she is confronted with the possibility of greatly increased
fortification

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.99)
- 27 -
fortification by these two Powers of their Pacific and
Far Eastern possessions. This situation has been, of course,
brought about by the action of Japan (1) in giving notice
in December, l934, of her intention to abrogate the naval
treaties; (2) in withdrawing from the London Naval Conference
of l936 and refusing thereafter to adhere to the Three-
Power Treaty; and (3) in permitting the treaties to lapse
on December 31, 1936, without entering into any agreements
with the other naval Powers either with respect to quanti-
tative or qualitative restrictions or with respect to the
restriction of fortifications in the Pacific and Far East.
The main reason which impelled Japan to withdraw from
the naval treaties and to refuse to enter into further
commitments was, and is, her passionate unwillingness to
bind herself legally and contractually to a position of
inferiority; in short the 5-5-3 ratio had, in the minds of
the Japanese, so humiliated this country and had so wounded
its amour-propre as to have become intolerable and the nation
made up its mind, probably shortly after the signature of
the London Treaty of 1930, to pay whatever price might be
necessary to rid itself of the stigma of inferiority.
Another, and perhaps no less cogent reason, was the
conviction that the Washington ratios no longer provided
Japan with the measure of security which she felt she
enjoyed at the time the treaties were signed. It cannot
be denied that conditions have greatly changed since 1922
and, especially with regard to aviation, developments have
undoubtedly reduced Japan's security from attack. Further-
more the adoption in recent years by Japan of a role of
stabilizing factor in East Asia has rendered it necessary
that

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.99)
- 28 -
that this country free itself of restrictions which might
hamper the effectiveness of this new policy.
In appraising the results of Japan's action in casting
the naval treaties overboard and choosing to remain in a
non-treaty status with the other Powers, the following may
be listed among the possible benefits to Japan: (1) Due to
her geographic position and her natural defenses arising
from the insular character of her possessions and mainland,
with the many harbors, inland waterways and so forth, Japan
feels that even with her relatively slender resources she
is in a position, if free from both quantitative and qua-
litative restrictions, to build a navy of such a kind as to
render her secure from attack; (2) Japan feels that her
position in the Orient, especially vis-à-vis China, will
be immeasurably strengthened by this evidence of her un-
willingness to submit to restrictions imposed by Western
Powers; in short she hopes to gain "face" with the Chinese;
(3) Japanese naval experts are confident, and there is some
evidence to support this view, that they can attain a measure
of parity by the qualitative method, that is, by building
vessels of new design, or great size (45,000 tons to 60,000
tons) with gun calibers of possibly as high as 2l inches,
thus rendering existing battleships obsolete. They recall
that Germany vastly improved her relative naval position
vis-à-vis Great Britain when the British brought out the
DREADNOUGHT class in 1906, thus rendering obsolete al1 her
own pre-DREADNOUGHT battleships.
The disadvantages to Japan of the non-treaty status
may, however, prove to outweigh the benefits. In the first
place, the Washington Naval Treaty was an integral part of
a

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.99)
- 29 -
a political group of treaties, and the Japanese by abro-
gating these have destroyed the collective system of security
which has governed the Pacific and Far Eastern area since
1922. In order to correct this situation she may be forced
to seek security through new political agreements, perhaps
of a bilateral character. But the former Anglo-Japanese
Alliance is probably forever lost to her and there appears
on the horizon at present to be no political arrangement
which can possibly replace either that alliance or the
collective system which she has just abandoned.
Furthermore Japan's action in respect to the naval
treaties has completed her isolation, an isolation which
was begun with her withdrawal from the League of Nations
in March, 1934. In addition to this, Japan will now be
faced with the threat of a possible increase in Pacific
and Far Eastern fortifications of American and British
possessions and territories, a threat which if not immediate
or actual, at least will prove a costly bargaining point in
any negotiations for naval or other political agreements
which Japan might be in the future forced to seek.
As far as the acquisition of "face" vis-à-vis China is
concerned, recent events have proven that expectations on
this score have abjectly failed to materialize. Japan was
not only checkmated in her negotiations at Nanking last
fall, but she is at present faced with a stiffer resistance
and a more united China than she has ever before encountered.
Other results have not been happy. The realization
that isolation constitutes a real danger to a country,
especially in time of war, has made itself keenly felt
during the past year and Japan has consequently made real
efforts

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.99)
-30 -
efforts during the past six months to emerge from this
condition. In November the Japanese Government announced
the anti-Comintern agreement with Germany, the arrangements
with Italy involving at least de facto recognition of
territory brought by extra-legal methods under the domination
of the other, and shortly thereafter the agreement with Po-
land for the increase of cultural relations with that
strategically important buffer state between Germany and
Russia. The reaction in Moscow was immediate and vigorous
with the result that relations with that heavily-armed
neighbor have been badly strained.
In the light of evidence now available it therefore
may be argued that in a political sense Japan has not
improved her position by failing to renew or to enter
into new naval agreements with the great Powers; in the
technical naval sense, however, bearing in mind chiefly
considerations of defense, it is quite possible to believe
that Japan may have been the gainer, although this remains
to be seen.
ECONOMIC
Japanese economic circles view the new year of 1937.
with mixed sentiments. On the one hand it is expected
that there will be increased domestic economic activity,
caused by the huge governmental expenditures, with the
resultant credit inflation and rising prices. On the
other hand, the threat of further governmental control
of industry and finance under the "quasi-wartime economic
policy" desired by the military, gives rise to a sense of
uncertainty and insecurity in business circles. Conse-
quently, as Mr. Ogawa, the Minister of Commerce and
Industry

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.99)
- 31 -
Industry himself stated in his New Year's message to the
nation, "The situation at home and abroad does not admit
of unqualified optimism".
Among the favorable elements in the situation, perhaps
the most important is the industrial activity of the nation.
Most of the manufacturing industries of Japan operated at a
high level of activity throughout l936 and some industries
promise to show even more activity in 1937 than in 1936, due
largely to the so-called "munitions boom". The huge govern-
mental expenditures for replenishment of national defense
have greatly benefited certain industries (such as metal-
working, airplane manufacturing, textile manufacturing and
allied industries) and the prosperity of these industries
has given a fillip to industry in general. With the in-
creased expenditures contemplated in the Army's six-year
replenishment program, calling for the expenditure of
Yen 3,300,000,000, the "munitions industries" can regard
the future with confidence. At the same time, Japan's
export trade has been well sustained during the past year,
and, unless further and more drastic restrictions are im-
posed on Japanese goods in foreign lands, it should continue
fairly active in l937. The industries devoted primarily or
partially to the manufacture of merchandise for export there-
fore can expect a continuation of activity. Japanese shipping
is reasonably prosperous, and the shipbuilding industry is
unusually so, some of the yards being booked up with orders
until the middle of 1938.
The farmers had an unusually good year in 1936, with
bumper rice crops and rising prices of agricultural pro-
ducts. This has added greatly to the purchasing power of
the

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.99)
- 32-
the nation and has given an additional impetus to certain
industries, especially the cotton tertile industry. The
farmers are also being assisted by various price control
measures passed by the Diet in its last session, and con-
sequently agricultural communities are more optimistic than
in years past.
Money rates are easy, which fact contributes greatly to
the activity of industrialists and merchants. The policy of
the Ministry of Finance since the incumbency of Mr. Baba,
Minister for Finance, has been to keep money rates low
(principally in order to float Government bonds at as low
rates as possible) and the policy has been successful up
to the present. Even at the year-end, when call-money usually
becomes scarce and rates rise because of the demand for money
for the year-end settlements, money was plentiful and cheap.
There is no reason to believe that money rates will rise to
any great extent in l937, and therefore merchants and in-
dustrialists are reasonably certain of a cheap supply of
funds in the coming year.
There are other factors, however, which are less favor-
able to the economic world of Japan. Chief among these is
the uncertainty in regard to the Government's policy of state
control of key industries. It will be remembered that after
the incident of February 26, 1936, there was a demand on the
part of the military for further control of industry by the
state, in order to prepare for possible war. At the same
time there was such a sharp reaction to the suggestion from
the business world that Mr. Baba, soon after he took office
as Minister for Finance, assured the nation that the Govern-
ment would not undertake financial and economic measures
which

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.99)
- 33 -
which would cause radical alterations in the economic
structure. Despite this assurance, however, business
circles are still uneasy, as it appears that the military
have been steadily and strongly pressing for progress
toward the state control of key industries. (It will be
recalled that state control has already been established
over the petroleum and motor-car industries, both at the
insistence of the military.) During 1936 a plan was formu-
lated to nationalize the electric power industry and the
proposal will be introduced into the Diet at the present
session, in a form which will give the Government partial
ownership and control of the industry. If the measure suc-
ceeds in obtaining the approval of the Diet, it is feared
by economic circles that the plan may be extended to other
basic industries, resulting in state control of industry in
accordance with the system of "quasi-wartime economy". Such
a contingency would not be at all welcome to Japanese eco-
nomic circles.
Another disturbing factor in the situation consists of
the projected taxation reform scheme and the proposed sharp
increase of existing taxes. The Army and the Navy, in the
proposed budget for the 1937-38 fiscal year, have included
enormous (to Japan) sums for replenishment and rebuilding
purposes. It will be impossible to finance these additional
demands by the issuance of deficit bonds, owing to the limited
capacity of the market to absorb such bonds, and consequently
Mr. Baba has had to turn to an increase of taxation and to
an increase of tariff rates. It is not certain that the
taxation measures will pass the Diet in their present forms,
but the practical certainty that some sort of tax increase
will be enacted is reacting unfavorably on business in Japan.
The

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.99)
-34 -
The sudden and sharp rise in prices which occurred in
the latter part of l936 and which continued until the close
of the year is also causing some uneasiness in economic and
official circles. The Bank of Japan wholesale commodity
index shows a rise of 1l.9 per cent between December, 1935,
and December, 1936. Some of the rise has been due to specu-
lation, but most of it appears to be due to governmental
spending in excess of the producing capacity of the country,
causing shortages of commodities; to credit inflation caused
by governmental expenditures; to a reflection in Japan of
increased prices abroad; to arbitrary price increases, such
as the increase in the prices of monopoly tobaceo; and to
anticipation of higher prices when the projected tariff
increase is approved by the Diet. In line with the rise in
prices, the cost of living in Japan is rising, and it is
feared that labor troubles will follow the rise in the cost
of living. Already Government employees are complaining
about their stationary salaries and the increased cost of
living, and Mr. Baba has announced that the Government will
take "appropriate measures" to check the rising trend of
prices should they become so high as to "endanger the national
life". The rise in prices, it is generally feared,will have
an adverse effect upon Japan's export industries and will
disturb the domestic economic system.
Another disturbing element in Japan's economic situation
lies in the prospect of a still larger adverse foreign trade
balance in 1937. The visible foreign trade balance for 1936
was unfavorable to Japan by about Yen 134,000,000, but this
was largely offset by an alleged favorable invisible trade
balance (details of which are not yet available). In 1937,
however, it is expected that the export trade will not
register

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.99)
-35 -
register any appreciable increase. The rate of increase
of Japan's export trade has been declining recently, and
it is possible that, because of further restrictions abroad
against Japanese goods, the trade will become stationary
in 1937. At the same time, it is expected that Japan's
import trade will be considerably larger in l937 than in
1936, due to the heavy governmental purchases caused by
the military replenishment programs, to barter agreements
with other countries requiring Japan to purchase certain
quantities of goods, and to speculative purchases made in
anticipation of the proposed increase in tariff rates.
Toward the close of the year it was feared that it might
become necessary for the Government to institute some sort
of control of imports and exports, in order to avoid too
great an adverse balance of trade in l937.
Although, therefore, on the surface Japan's economic
world appears prosperous and active, there are various
factors undermining this prosperity which may become more
prominent and adversely affect Japanese economic circles
during l937. It will be observed that the present and
prospective economic disorders mentioned above are all due
directly or indirectly to the military and their budget
demands. The military desire "quasi-wartime" state control
of industries; it is because of the military demands that
taxes and tariffs must be raised; prices are rising partly
because of the heavy governmental spending for munitions
and military equipment; and the prospective adverse trade
balance in l937 will be due in part to purchases of materials
for the military replenishment schemes. As long as the
military remain the dominating influence in the Government,
therefore

=== Page 413 === (confidence 1.00)
-36-
therefore, Japan's economic world cannot be considered as
sound and stable.
FINANCIAL
Like the general economic situation, the financial
position of Japan at the beginning of the year appears
fairly strong on the surface, but beneath the surface there
are various more or less ominous factors which tend to weaken
the confidence of competent observers in the soundness of
Japanese finance. In the opinion of some of these observers,
the Japanese financial position has recently been steadily
growing worse and at the close of the year was less sanguine
than at any time during the past twenty-five years. This
opinion is based on a comparison of Japan's annual govern-
mental expenditures with its economic resources, in 1936
and in previous years. Such a comparison reveals the fact
that governmental expenditures have been growing faster than
economic resources -- undoubtedly a dangerous course to pursue.
At the same time, however, the consensus of opinion appears
to be that Japan is in no immediate danger of a financial
collapse.
To consider first the favorable indications, it may be
pointed out that, although the national debt has been growing
rapidly in recent years, because of the issuance of deficit
bonds to cover the unbalanced budgets (unbalanced largely
because of military expenditures in Manchuria and at home),
the total national debt at the close of the year did not
seem to be exorbitant for a nation of the size, population,
resources and power of Japan. Exact figures of the national
debt at the close of the year are not available, but in
November the debt had risen to well over ten billion yen,
and

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.99)
-37 -
and by the end of December it is presumed that it reached
nearly ten and one-half billion yen. This total includes
the external debts computed at the old gold value of the
yen. If the external debts are computed at the present
exchange value of the yen (in which value Japan is paying
interest and principal), the total of the national debt
will exceed eleven billion yen. Even allowing for the fact
that the per capita wealth of the Japanese and the national
resources are very much lower than those of American and
European nations, this total national debt does not seem
large for an active, progressive empire of over ninety
million people.
Although money rates were easy at the year-end, this
was not accomplished by excessive currency inflation. (There
is always a certain amount of inflation of the note issue
at the end of each year, to provide funds to the banks for
the year-end settlements.) On December 30, 1936, the note
issue stood at Yen 1,965,190,000, an increase of about Yen
550,000,000 over the normal issue, which is about Yen 1,400,-
oo0,ooo. It was confidently expected that the note issue
would return to the normal figure soon after the New Year
holidays. Against the note issue there is a specie reserve
of Yen 548,342, 000. The value of this reserve is computed
at the old gold value of the yen; if computed at the present
exchange value of the yen, which is much lower and which it
is not expected will be again raised, it will be found that
the specie reserve affords much more than adequate backing
for the note issue.
Against these factors, however, must be placed unfavorable
factors (chiefly concerned with the unbalanced budgets) which
greatly

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.99)
- 38 -
greatly weaken Japan's financial position in the eyes of
local observers. The principal factor concerns the so-
called deficit bonds".
During 1936 the Government experienced some difficulty
in disposing of its issues of 3-l/2 percent deficit bonds,
which apparently were being issued in excess of the capacity
of the market to absorb them. Although, as was pointed out
above, the national debt cannot be considered as excessive,
and there is no reason to believe that public confidence
in the solvency of the nation has been impaired to any
considerable extent, the deficit bonds were not readily
taken up by the public and were, to a considerable amount,
left in the hands of the banks. In November the price of
the bonds fell on the open market to 97.70, whereas the
issuing price was 98.00, thus estopping the Government from
issuing more bonds until the market price had been raised
to 98.00. During the 1937-38 fiscal year, the greatly in-
creased budget will require the issuance of even more
deficit bonds than in the 1936-37 fiscal year, the amount
being estimated at between Yen 900,000,000 and Yen 1,000,-
O00,000. When the difficulties experienced in 1936 in
disposing of the bond issues are taken into consideration,
it is not believed that the Government will succeed in
floating its bonds during the coming fiscal year without
some measure of compulsion on the banks, trust companies,
insurance companies and other purchasers and holders of
bonds, to buy the new issues. That it may become necessary
to take some such step has been intimated by the Minister
for Finance. It will be exceedingly difficult for the
Government to maintain the price of its bonds if compulsion
should become necessary in order to dispose of the bonds.
Another

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.99)
- 39 -
Another angle of the bond situation which is somewhat
disturbing lies in the fact that the banks are unable to
dispose of the bonds to the public. If a bank is able to
dispose of its allotment of bonds to the public, credit
is retired to the amount of the bonds sold, balancing the
credit which must be given the Government. But if the
bank is unable to sell its bonds and thereby retire public
credit, the new credit issued to the Government will not
be balanced and will constitute additional credit thrown
into the financial world. This process will make for credit
inflation, which may become dangerous.
In addition to the difficulties which it is expected
will be found in upholding the price of bonds, it is anti-
cipated that the Government will find it difficult to main-
tain the present exchange value of the yen (one shilling
two pence). The indications are that the import excess,
amounting to about Yen 134,000,000 in 1936, wil1 be larger
in 1937. The great activity of the "munitions" and allied
industries will require the importation of large quantities
of raw materials, while various barter agreements into which
Japan has entered, such as those with Australia and British
India, are conditioned upon Japan purchasing stated minimum
quantities of raw materials. It will therefore be difficult
for Japan to decrease materially its imports in 1937, while
there is not much hope that Japanese exports will increase
to any considerable extent during the year. The presumption
therefore is that the trade balance will be more adverse in
1937 than it was in 1936, and that this factor will cause
further pressure to be exerted upon the yen.
At the same time, foreign bankers in Tokyo are of the
opinion

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.98)
- 40 -
opinion that the foreign exchange reserves abroad (mostly
held in sterling in London) of the Yokohama Specie Bank
have been somewhat depleted by the struggles of that bank
to maintain the value of the yen through 1936 at its present
rate, namely, one shilling and two pence. The foreign ex-
change reserves, maintained as a stabilization fund, normally
amount to about three or four hundred million yen, but it
is now suspected that they stand at a considerably lower
figure, although the Yokohama Specie Bank does not publish
the amounts of the reserves, and exact information is not
available. The Bank's difficulties in bolstering up the
yen in December, when, under the sudden pressure of import
bills covering some four hundred thousand bales of raw
cotton, the yen exhibited a tendency to decline, indicates
a serious weakness in exchange reserves.
Faced with the prospect of a still larger adverse
balance of trade in 1937 and with (presumably) insufficient
foreign exchange reserves abroad, it is expected that the
Government will experience difficulty in 1937 in maintaining
the yen at one shilling two pence. Indications are that the
Government may be forced to exercise stricter control over
foreign exchange transactions, or even to resort to a licen-
sing system for imports.
The adverse factors in Japan's financial position are
due in large measure to the unusually heavy governmental
expenditures (principally military), which result in un-
balanced budgets, large issues of deficit bonds, inflation
of credit and rising prices. These expenditures, which
threaten to become even larger in succeeding years, are
placing burdens upon the nation faster than the increase
of

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.99)
- 41 -
of economic resources can take up the additional load.
Consequently the financial structure is being shaken,
although not seriously as yet. It is expected by ob-
servers, however, that the Government will be forced to
take measures, much along the lines of those adopted by
Dr. Schacht in Germany, to control the exchange value of
the yen, to maintain the price of Government bonds, and
to control foreign trade. The Yokohama Specie Bank has
announced definitely that it will maintain the yen at
one shilling two pence -- a step taken, it is believed,
in order to avoid further opposition abroad to Japanese
exports should their prices be still further reduced
through a lowered value of the yen.
Opinion differs as to the efficacy of the artificial
measures which it is expected that the Government will take,
some observers believing that it will be impossible for the
Government to bolster the yen for long in the face of the
rapidly increasing governmental expenditures. The prevailing
opinion, however, seems to be that the Government will be
able to avoid a dangerous crisis for some months and perhaps
through 1937, although few observers dare to predict the
future of the yen and of the price of Japanese Government
bonds beyond the end of the year.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
JCG/ERD/ESC/CC/GDA:m
800
5
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
I.J.N
the discretion of the
Department.

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.96)
ARTMENT OF STATE
EURUPEAR
DE OF ECN OVIS
MAR 3 137
RETAR
S1All
DEPARTMENT OF STAE
1937
Fbruary 23, 1937
Divicion of
NOTED
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
NAR 1 -1937
Secretary:
894.00/696
Department of State
BUROPEAN AFFAIRE
There is attached Mr. Grew's despatch No. 2209,
MAR
OF STATI
dated January 1, 1937, entitled "General Situation
Facing Japan at the Opening of the Year 1937". It is
in effect a general survey of Japan's foreign relations,
of the domestic political situation, of the position of
the Army as a political factor, of the naval policies
of Japan, and of economic and financial conditions in
Japan.
Of Japan's foreign relations in general, Mr. Grew
observes that the new year "opens in an ominous key".
9
He states that Japan's relations with "Great Britain,
Soviet Russia and China are on a far from satisfactory
footing and recently have been growing worse"; and
that, with reference to relations with the United States,
"the long future as contrasted with the immediate present
holds out no evident grounds for optimism". He ascribes
this state of affairs to the control exercised by the
Army over foreign relations.
The relations of Japan with the United States,
China, Soviet Russia, Great Britain, Germany, Italy and
the Netherlands are then diseussed.
F/FG
With

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
With regard to relations with the United States, the
Ambassador cites the situation arising out of the termina-
tion of the Washington Naval Treaty and Japan's aggressive
policy in China as capable of creating acute and hazardous
issues. The Philippine Islands, in the Ambassador's
opinion, also remain as a potential, although not an
immediate, source of danger to these relations. Ho
feels, however, that the Japanese Government values
American friendship, and that it "will not purposely
alienate the United States unless situations arise where
Japan considers her own national interests to be acutely
involved". He concludes this section with the observation
that "The outlook for 1937, so far as Japanese-American
relations are concerned, therefore would not at present
appear to justify pessimism".
With regard to relations with China, Mr. Grew states
that the plans for the extension of Japanese influence
have miscarried, due to the "sudden and unexpected deter-
mination of China to yield no more to Japanese pressure",
and that Japan is now in process of re-formulating its
program in China. Whatever may be the method employed -
whether by economic penetration or by a "frontal attack"
-, the Ambassador believes that "Japanese energies will be
directed towards consolidating Japan's control in North
China and Mongolia".
With regard to relations with Soviet Russia, it is
Mr. Grew's opinion that the improvement recently discernible
in

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.99)
2
- 3 -
in those relations "was rudely shattered" by the conclusion
of the Japanese-German convention to combat communism.
He believes that the adverse effects of that convention
on Soviet sentiment toward Japan are not likely to be
overcome in the near future.
With regard to relations with Great Britain, the
Ambassador observes that a large element of the British
people are anti-Japanese in sentiment as a result of the
Manchuria situation, Japan's aggressiveness in China,
trade competition, and other controversies.
The domestic political situation is summarized by
Mr. Grew as follows:
"At the opening of 1937, to recapitulate,
domestic politics in Japan are characterized
by popular criticism of the Government (partic-
ularly for its foreign policy), and public dis-
satisfaction with the mounting cost of living,
budget increase, and pressure of taxes. Against
this opposition the advantages enjoyed by the
Hirota Cabinet in its effort to stay in office
are, first, that the military (still in control)
are not yet determined that a change would be an
improvement, and second, that the political
parties still lack unity of attack."
The Embassy points out, however, that the Army has
regained, through stricter control of the radical
elements within itself, a large measure of the popular
support which it had before the military revolt of
February, 1936.
The

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
The economic and financial situation in Japan is
not one which gives the Ambassador cause for great
optimism. Although industrial activity stimulated by the
so-called "munitions boom" may be expected to continue
in l937, the possibility of there being established
state control of key industries and of substantial in-
creases in taxation is a disturbing factor. There has
been a sharp increase in commodity prices, which may lead
to labor troubles, have an adverse effect upon Japan's
export industries and disturb its entire economic system.
Further, it is anticipated that the Government will
have increased difficulty in floating bonds to cover the
unbalanced budget - there having occurred toward the end
of last year a fall in the price of Government bonds - and
it is expected that there will be further falls in such
prices if compulsion is used to effect absorption by the
banks of new bonds. It is expected that the Government
will also experience difficulty in maintaining the present
exchange value of the yen, due to the fact that the country
is committed to the purchase abroad of large quantities
of raw materials, whereas there is little hope of imports
being increased. It is not believed, therefore, that
measures which the Government may take to support the
yen would be effective for very long. The opinion prevails
1937
that a dangerous crisis may develop after the end of the
year.
Comment:

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
Commont:
The picture of Japan, insofar as its foreign relations
and economic and financial condition are concerned pre-
sented in the despatch is, with certain limited exceptions,
one of unrelieved pessimism. The impression is given to
the reader of the year just ended having been for Japan
one of retrogression: the despatch unfolds a succession
of events some of which emphasize Japan's unwillingness
to cooperate with other nations toward the maintenance of
peace, others which reflect determination to pursue a
policy of aggression, and still others which point toward
a deterioration of its economic well-being. On the other
hand, events which may be estimated to have countervailing
effect have in certain instances been overlooked, and in
other instances they have not been presented in accurate
perspective. It is our opinion that, if there has been
any change during l936 in Japan's international position,
those evidences of a trend away from an attitude of
aggression outweigh evidences of a trend in the opposite
direction. To illustrate:
The despatch cites the situation arising out of the
termination of the Washington Naval Treaty as a possible
source of international controversy. The action taken by
Japan to terminate that treaty was taken in 1934 and con-
firmed in 1935. There have recently been given out in
Japan expressions of desire to avoid giving cause for naval
competition,

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
competition, the last being a statement to such effect
made on February l6 in the Diet by the Minister of the
Navy.
Other possible causes of controversy with the United
States cited in the despatch are commercial problems and
the interests in Japan of American oil concerns. With
regard to the former, the Japanese are voluntarily impos-
ing restrictions on exports to the United States of many
competitive goods, while, with regard to the latter, cer-
tain assurances desired by the foreign oil concerns rela-
tive to their future operations in Japan were recently
given by the Japanese Government.
In the economic and financial field, the Embassy
reported in a telegram dated February 19: "The general
financial outlook in Japan is much brighter than it was
a month ago.... Foreign exchange control is operating
effectively and the yen is firm".
Although there has been disposition among press
writers and publicists to exaggerate the significance of
the recent parliamentary crisis in Japan, it is our
estimete that (a) there is obviously a growing dissatis-
faction on the part of the public over the manner in
which the Army has causeā Japan's foreign relations to
be conducted, and that (b) although the Army is now
more firmly entrenched -- through the set-up of the
recently

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.91)
- 7 -
recently created Cabinet -- in a position of "control",
the Army is by no means confident of its being able to
maintain a position of dominance, realizes that it has
led the nation into positions which are of doubtful
advantage, and seems to have been somewhat sobered by a
belated consciousness of the great responsibilities which
it has taken upon itself and of the increasing obstacles
to the success of its activities in the field of foreign
relations.
川N
FH:EHDYDLY
X

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.94)
Noli a lardi
Fobruary 24, 1957.
IN.U
Sinoe January 1, 1937, the date
on which despatch No. 2209, entitled
"General Situation Facing Japan at
the Opening of the Year 1957", from
the American Ambassador at Tokyo,
was drafted, there have occurred a
mmber of important developments af-
feeting the domestio politioal situa-
tion in Japan and ecomomie and
financial oonditions in that country.
In the light of such developmonts, it
is believed that conditions existing
at the present time in the fields of
Japan's international relations, of
Th
1ts domestio politios, and or its
commeroe, industry and finance are
not so unfavorable as they were at
the time when the despatoh was pre-
pared.

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 10, 1937
WTT：
EHD:
MMT:
Tesnatch No. 224l of February 1, 1937,
from Tokyo, ent tled "Political Develop-
ments in Janan, January 1937", enumerates
seven rebuffs which the army groun has
suffered during January 1037, in spite of
its success in blociting the choice of a
Premier onrosed by the military. Hayashi's
task will be rendered difficult by the
antagonism betveen the large group in the
army still clamoring for pol tical reform
and conv nced that now is the time for the
army to move forward and tiose elements
which fear the economic and nolitical
philosonhy of the army.
COMMENT:
The delicate position of the Cabinet
between those two rouns would seem to
account for the anparent moderate trend of
its nolicy to date.
894.00/697
FE:JP/DIY

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 2241.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, February 1, 1937.
SUBJECT: POLITICAL DEVELOPMENTS IN JAPAN, JANUARY 1937.
294 00
1937 FE111 23
(1)
15)
LLI
C
COPHES SENT TO
M.1.
r
894.00/697
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
72
Sir:
During the month of January 1937 the political
situation in Japan has been marked by a mounting
political opposition to the Japanese Army. Although
January has closed with a request to an Army officer,
FILHD
General Senjuro Hayashi, to form a cabinet, the
dominant development of the month has nevertheless
1937
been the focusing of the people's attention against
the military.
As the Embassy pointed out in despatch No. 2209,
January 1, 1937, the year opened in a tone of popular
opposition
F/FG

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
opposition to the Government's policies, more em-
phatic than at any time since the Manchurian incident
of 1931. On January 21, when the Diet met after the
holidays to take up business, the Lower House imme-
diately became active. In the course of interpella-
tions, Mr. Kunimatsu Hamada of the Seiyukai, formerly
Speaker of the House, launched a violent attack upon
the Hirota Cabinet and the military in politics. The
Minister of War handled the ensuing debate awkwardly,
and the session ended in disorder as the Government
obtained approval of the Emperor for the proroguing
of the Diet for two days. During that interval
Hirota's negotiations with the political party leaders
for terms on which the Diet might agree to quiet its
attack were unsuccessful, and on January 23 the re-
signation of the entire Cabinet was submitted and ac-
cepted. Upon recommendation by the Genro, Prince
Saionji, the Emperor on January 24 requested General
Kazunari Ugaki to form a cabinet. The Army refused
absolutely to permit an officer to serve as minister
of war in an Ugaki cabinet and for this reason General
Ugaki on January 29 reported to the Emperor his in-
ability to form a government. After consultation
again between the Genro and the Court, the Lord Keeper
of the Privy Seal and Baron Hiranuma had a conversation
during which the press reports that Baron Hiranuma
stated his inability to accept the responsibility
of the premiership. Following this, General Senjuro
Hayashi

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
Hayashi was summoned to the Palace and received the
Imperial command to form a cabinet. He asked
for two days' time before submitting his reply.
By the end of January General Hayashi's cabinet
was not completed.
In spite of the Army's success in blocking the
choice of a premier opposed by the military and in
forcing the selection of a premier whom the military
favor, the Army has suffered a number of rebuffs during
January 1937. The principal rebuffs number seven as
follows:
(1) The attack on the Army in the Diet on
January 2l was a severe blow. The interpellator,
Mr. Kunimatsu Hamada, included in his remarks, ac-
cording to the press, such statements as:
The Army has taken upon itself the role
of moving force of the nation, end in all the
major incidents of recent years it has made this
force felt. This is true of the May 15(1932)
incident, of the February 26(1936) incident,
of the dictatorial views broadcast by some
sections of the Army from time to time, of
the political views expressed by the War Minis-
ter at the meeting of the Diet System Inquiry
Commission, and of the statement of the com-
mander of the Kwantung Army on the Manchu-
kuo Concordia Society. Dictatorial political
ideas are at all times the undercurrent of
thought within the Army, and there is danger
that this current will destroy the dam set
between the civil and military in accordance
with the Imperial will. The people realize
this and are afraid .. . . The Hirota Cabinet
must lift the heavy pressure brought to bear
on the people by the Army. . . In disregard
of the capacity of the people to bear the
burden, it has compiled an enormous abnormal
budget
A general economic panic
threatens. Because of rash measures of
economic

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
economic control, industrial confusion is immi-
nent...
The Emperor Meiji granted the
people the privilege of forming legal political
parties, in accordance with His Majesty's will
that a single sovereign should reign over the
welfare of all the people; to the fighting
services, on the other hand, it was His Ma-
jesty's instruction tnat they be not perturbed
by outside opinion and that they refrain from
concerning themselves with politics. . . We
feel that the ideology embodied in the mani-
festo of,the commender of the Kwantung Army
on the subject of the Manchukuo Concordia Society
indicates that politics in anchuria will not
be uided by democratic principles, and that
the Society will simply be the face of the
fabric of which the Government is the back
When it became difficult for the bill for aug-
menting the Army by two divisions to pass the
Japanese Diet, the military clique Government
scattered money among the Diet members and
bought them off. Bribers and bribe-takers
sometimes energe among party men, but the
same can be said of the military. . . A budget
of war dimensions, three times the size pre-
vailing prior to the Manchurian incident, is
being atteapted. With industry scarcely twice
its former capacity, is it surprising that
prices should soa ana the peonle's liveli-
hood be jeo ardized?
Judging by their behavior during the debate, the
majority of members of the House supported the attack.
(2) The Diet was prorogued on a definitely
anti-Army note. This was certainly poor politics on
the part of the Minister of War. The newspapers of
the country ere flooded with dramatic accounts of
the Diet's being prorogued in disorder during a debate
in which the Army was severely attacked, and the public
inescapably received the impression that the Army
was unable to hold its own.
(3) During the prorogued period, the Minister
of War was responsible for several press releases
demanding

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
demanding the dissolution of the Lower House, but in
this demand the Army lost out. The Hirota Cabinet was
not willing to assume the responsibility for disso-
lution in the face of so unified a front as was pre-
sented by the Diet in its session of January 21. A
better politician than War Minister Terauchi, Hirota
no doubt recognized that for the Government to choose
that time to go to the people would have been poor
strategy. The War Minister's insistence was overruled.
(4) The resignation of the Hirota Cabinet was not
asked for by the military and was an important con-
cession to the political parties. Hirota came into
office with the Army's blessing and has been amenable
to Army direction. For his Cabinet to go out of
office, leaving a large question-mark over the re-
lations between the Diet and a succeeding military
cabinet, is at least a temporary loss to the mili-
tarists.
(5) In the choice of General Kazunari Ugaki
as the first person invited to form a cabinet, the
Army was directly rebuffed. Ugaki was identified
with the moderate element in the pre-1931 Army,
and has shown no sympathy with the Army radicals of
the last years. He was Minister of War in five cabi-
nets between 1924 and 1931, and was in office when
the Army, subsequent to the Washington Conference,
was reduced by four divisions. No doubt he was one
of the individuals held in special opprobrium by
the

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.99)
-6 -
the radicals in the Army when they were beginning to
organize. From 1931 to 1936 he was Governor-General
of Chosen. General Ugaki is an administrator rather
than a soldier, and he has no sympathy with the poli-
tical group of the Army. He was openly opposed to
the Mazaki-Hata-Araki faction. He enjoys the con-
fidence of Japanese business, and has never lacked
for backing from important business families. Al-
though not a party member his service in Minseito cabi-
nets has given him practical Minseito connections.
In brief, Ugaki came to the cabinet-forming task with
the backing of the political parties, financial circles,
and the majority of the public, and his designation,
in the face of known Army opposition, has been an
important factor in loosing pent-up public opinion
against the Army's political pretensions.
(6) Trroughout the five tense days of Ugaki's
effort to form a government, the newspapers all over the
country played up the Army's responsibility in the frus-
tration of the popular candidate. During this period
the Army was forced to take the defensive, and a more
and more moderate tone in its press releases, con-
trasting with its initial arrogance, was observable.
(7) Immediately before proceeding to the Palace
to inform the Emperor of his inability to form a cabinet,
General Ugaki gave out to the press a strong denunciation
of political interference by the Army. The statement was
in

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
in the form of a letter explaining resignation from his
military commission (effected the same morning), and
included the assertion that Japan is at the point
where she must decide between fascism and parlia-
mentary government, that the Army has become a poli-
tigal organization, and that the Emperor deserves
sympathy for this state of affairs. So insubstantial
is political freedom of speech in this country that
the Government immediately placed a ban upon this
statement. Several of the newspapers had printed
parts of it as extra editions (which were soon with-
drawn from sale), and it has already been reported
abroad, so its existence is videly known in spite
of the censorship.
So much for the blows suffered by the Army during
January. In the selection of General Hayashi to be
premier, has the Army gained a means of recovering
the month's losses? Ugaki was blocked by the Army's
refusal to supply a way minister; Hayashi, who was
himself in that office as recently as the time of the
Okada Cabinet, might be expected to find no difficulty
in that regard. But his task is not as simple as it
might appear at first glance, for he has on his hands
a group in the Army still clamoring for fundamental
political reforms and convinced that now is the time
for the Army to sweep forward. The conditions under
which Hirota was admitted to office after the incident
of February 26, 1936, are ample evidence that the poli-
tical rebels of the Army vere by no means crushed by
their

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8 -
Atheir consent to strict disciplinary measures against
those who had resorted to violence. Hirota brought them
no satisfaction in the matter closest to their hearts,
and they see the present as an opportunity to advance.
Of no importance to them that the Diet has clearly
asked for less of the military in the nation's govern-
ing, and of no importance to them that protest from the
people is appearing - or if of no importance, simply
to point the need for immediate action and to indi-
cate the direction of change. Hayashi's most serious
problem is not to bring into being a government which
can face the adverse criticism evoked by the agreement
with Germany, the failure of negotiations with China,
the mishandling of relations with the Soviet Union,
and the other specific points which brought the Hirota
Cabinet into disrepute. Hayashi's problem is more
fundamental. It is created by the antagonism be-
tween the far-from-dead political rebels of the Army
on the one hand, and on the other hand those civilians,
particularly in business, who fear the economic and
political philosophy of the Army.
General Hayashi brings to his task talents which
are strictly limited. As was pointed out in the Embassy's
994.00549
despatch No. 1414 of July 26, 1935, he is primarily a
soldier, one of the moderates, the man who as war minister
removed Masaki from the high office of inspector general
of military education. So definitely had Hayashi
committed himself against the direct-actionists that
his

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.96)
- 9 -
his retirement from the Supreme Military Council was
considered a necessary part of the compromise by which
the February 26 incident was closed. On discipline in
the Army General Hayashi's position is well known and his
efforts have been effective; but his career has so far
shown no special aptitude in political matters outside
the Army. Himself a neutral, everything depends on the
effective control of his government. The Army hopes
to manipulate him in the direction of an increasingly
nationalistic policy backed by wider government control
of the economic system. Business hopes he can be brought
to block this trend.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
For the lubassador:
800.
Dabot Boville
CC:g:r
Copy to Embassy, Moscow
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.
X

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.97)
894.00
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
893.00/13977
SEE
FOR
...Memorandum
State Depertment
Far Eastern Division
894.00/
FROM(Vincent)
) DATED .Eb..131937
TO
NAME
1-1127
The situation in the Far East: Japan
REGARDING:
Political developments of the past week: appointment of General
9
698
Sugiyama as War Minister; interpretation of Premier Hayashi's
announcement of Feb 8 on his program.
FRG.
698

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.99)
894.00
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
893.00/14020
FOR
Memorandum
State Department
Far Eastern Division
FROM
Vincent
) DATED Feb 20, 1937
894.00/ 699
TO
NAME
1-1127
The situation in the Far East: China.
REGARDING:
Developments of the past week.
FRG.

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.97)
59-1
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
U
GRAY
Tokyo
1—1336
FROM
Dated Maych 4, 1937
Rec'd 7 /15 a.m.
9
1937
894.00/700
69, March 4, 2 p.m.
OEF
One. Naotake Sato. until now Japanese Ambassador
to France, was installed as linister for Foreign Affairs
last evening. Sato has spent over 30 years in the
Jupanese Foreign Service, all in Europe except for five
years as Consul General at Harbin. He has had no service
in China proper or the Americas.
Two. Domei states that Sato is honest and genial
but at the same time has a stern character and a "samurai-
like solidity".
Three. In an interview with Japanese newspapermen
FILHL
last  ight Sato expressed the opinion that the foreign
12.
policy of a state should vossess continuity and that
1937
therefore it would probably be necessary for him to adapt
his preconceived views on  oreign policy to the need for
continuity (in other words, he is not planning radical
changes in policy). He admitted that he anticipated some
difficulty in reconciling his views with those of other
members of the Cabinet (presumably tho se of the army and
F/G
navy . nisters) and regretted that his task would be
much

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.99)
59-2
U -2- #69, Mar. 4, 2 p.m. from Tokyo
much the more difficult by the fact that his long
residence abroad had prevented him from becoming familiar
with domestic political conditions.
Four. Sato's appointment was generally well received
this morning by the vernacular press. The ASAHI anticipat-
ed that Sato will establish a strong unified diplomacy,
based on agreement of views between the Foreign Office,
the arny and the navy and centered on policies vis a vis
China and the Soviets. The HOCHI believed that Sato will
defend liberalism in diplomacy. The NICHI ICHI stated
that Sato is the most suitable choice from among the
carcer diplomats and stressed the need for unified dip-
lonacy. The YOMIURI expressed the opinion that Sato's
laci of intimate knowled e of China and full k'owledge of
Europe may be an asset because half of the difficulty
in dealing with China arises from Turopean and American
influence in that country.
Repeated to Peiping.
GREW
KLP :WC

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 11, 1937.
JWB
Tokyo's despatch No. 2256 of
February 15, 1937, discusses the state-
ment of policy issued by the Hayashi
Cabinet.
After declaring that the statement
is extremely vague and nebulous in sub-
stance and thet it does not mean much,
the despatch proceeds to an extended dis-
cussion, in the form of interpretative
comment, of the statement. As most of the
interpretation is speculative in character,
it is not believed that you will wish to do
more than glance through it.
Note that the statement calls for
"armaments necessary for the security of
the Empire, for the safeguarding of its
development and for realization of national
policies". The Embassy takes this to mean
that Jaoan has now openly declared that its
armaments are not intended entirely for de-
fense but also for safeguarding Japan's
policy of expansion.
It is not believed that the Embassy is
warranted in placing so specific an in-
terpretation upon so indefinite a declara-
tion.
W1T
894.00/701
FE:WTT/DLY:EH:SS

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.92)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 2256.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, February 15, 1937.
894.0
SUBJECT: POLICIES OF THE HAYASHI CABINET.
2.1
897
37A  1 20
S
S.
RECEIVE
bui-mid
15)
894.00/701
ENT TO
LD
CONFIDENTIAL.
pyin FE(3821)
Fl
A
fil
The Honorable
mic
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
19
FILD
With reference to the Embassy's telegram No. 49,
1937
February 8, 7 p.m., in regard to a statement of policy
issued by the Hayashi Cabinet, I have the honor to
report that General Hayashi, on February 8, 1937, after
approval by the Cabinet, issued a statement containing
five points of policy to be followed by the Cabinet.
The statement was extremely vague and nebulous in sub-
stance and was phrased in the ancient classical Japanese
language
F/G
1.

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
language, which rendered it even more ambiguous. The
language used caused the statement to be incomprehen-
sible to the great mass of the people, but it is be-
lieved that it was thought best to couch it in classi-
cal language in order to make it more impressive and to
emphasize the critical nature of the conditions which
brought the Cabinet into existence.
The preamble of the statement, after the usual loyal
expressions, declares that "in view of the current situation
both at home and abroad, and in cognizance of the urgent
nature of the times", the Cabinet presents its platform
to the nation. The text of the platform is difficult of
translation, owing to its abstract nature and the language
used, and all translations differ considerably, but it
is believed that the following translation, prepared in
the Embassy, accurately conveys the meaning of the five
points of policy.
1. To clarify the concept of the national polity,
to cultivate the great principles of reverence for the
gods and respect for the Emperor, and to enrich the
sources from which the development of the national des-
tiny springs by inculcating the spirit of unity between
worship of the gods and State administration.
2. To ensure the healthy development of the
constitutional government peculiar to Japan in strict
accordance with the provisions of the Imperial Con-
stitution and to conduct State administration fairly
and uprightly with due regard to the wishes of the
people and to public opinion.
3. To execute a national foreign policy with
the united support of the nation, thereby bringing
clarity into international relationships by pro-
moting the stability of ast Asia and the mutual
prosperity of all nations in accordance with inter-
national justice.
4

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
4. To provide the armaments necessary for the
security of the Empire, for the safeguarding of its
development and for realization of national policies,
and at the same time to foster the national power by
promoting the productive power of the nation.
5. To encourage the collective development of
industry in accordance with economic conditions at
home and abroad, to enforce appropriate measures of
control of industry while devising necessary measures
of protection, and at the same time to develop the
creative power of the people and to encourage their
spirit of enterprise.
The statement of policy concludes vith the following
elucidation, as translated for the press by Domei:
"In order to realize these aims, it is in-
cumbent upon the Government not to resort to the
extreme and to be on its guard against conven-
tionalism. Only by so doing, the Government is able
to carry out reforms in accordance with the trend
of the times. Justice must follow the trend of the
times. Namely, the Government must effect adminis-
trative reforms and stabilize the national livelihood
and thereby to remove the unrest of the public mind.
It is incumbent upon the Government to carry out its
policies vhich it has in contemplation. The existing
situation both at home and abroad is complicated
and does not know where it is leading. The situation
is characterized by individualism and selfishness.
Cooperation is more valuable than anything else under
the present circumstances. Reason will have its own
way. The present Cabinet is composed of the members
observing self-negation. It is against the organi-
zation of eny faction in its existence. The Govern-
ment is sincerely determined to devise such measures
as are designed to effect various reforms in accord-
ance with the expertations of the Throne, and by
being faithful toward its assigned mission."
Later, Premier Hayashi announced that he would elu-
cidate his policies in a radio address to the nation.
This he did on the evening of January 1l. The radio
1/
address (appended hereto in the form of a clipping from
the JAPAN ADVERTISER of February 12) added little or
nothing to the nation's understanding of the actual poli-
cies of the Cabinet.
The

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
The consensus of opinion of the vernacular press,
as expressed in the editorials of the Tokyo dailies,
was that the statement of policy was too nebulous and
not so concrete as the nation could have wished. Some
of the newspapers accepted the five points of policy
as being quite in line with what could be expected of
the new Cabinet, but also expressed the view that "the
proof of the pudding is in the eating" - that abstract
phrases were sufficient for the moment, but that the
nation must wait for the Cabinet's concrete measures
in pursuance of its policies before it could judge the
worth of the Cabinet.
There was also some mild cri-
ticism of the fact that the statement omitted to mention
the welfare of the agricultural class. As the farmers
are more pros erous this year than for several years
past, however, this omission would seem to have been
intentional.
Although the statement is vague and nebulous, if
one reads between the lines several interesting points
appear. In the second item of policy, no mention is made
of the attitude of the Cabinet toward the Diet or the poli-
tical parties. Instead, there is the unusual reference
to "constitutional government peculiar to Japan". Exactly
what is meant by this phrase no one anpears to understand,
but it carries a hint of opposition to the present form
of parliamentary government which is based on the British
system and therefore is not entirely "peculiar to Japan".
There

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
There is no doubt that the military influence, dominating
the Hayashi Cabinet, is hostile to any parliamentary
system which does or can give power to political parties,
and it can therefore be assumed that the reference to
"constitutional government peculiar to Japan" contains
a warning to the political parties not to attempt to
impose their will upon the Government or the Army. The
reference later in the same item to "due regard to the
wishes of the people and to public opinion" is undoubt-
edly intended to serve as an inaication to the people
that arbitrary and dictatorial methods of government
(of which there has been some complaint in the past)
will not be employed by the Hayashi Cabinet.
The third item, referring to foreign policy,also
contains some interesting points. The phrase, "national
foreign policy with the united support of the nation",
undoubtedly indicates an intention to discard the "secret
diplomacy" which resulted in 1936 in the German-Japanese
anti-Comintern agreement. This agreement was not welcomed
enthusiastically by the Japanese people, and there was
much outspoken criticism at the time of the secret di-
plomacy employed in negotiating the agreement. The new
Government, apparently as a concession to the public,
has now served notice that there will be no more agree-
ments concluded with other nations without the full know-
ledge of the people. Later in the third item of policy
appears the phrase, "the mutual prosperity of all nations
in accordance with international justice". This might
be

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.99)
-6 -
be taken to refer to the demand of the "have-nots" that
the world's sources of raw materials and markets for manu-
factured goods be re-distributed. If so, the Hayashi
Cabinet would appear to be notifying the world that Japan
intends to align itself with Germany in demanding more of
the world's opportunities.
The fourth item, concerning armaments, is perhaps the
most interesting of the five items of policy. It will be
observed that the purpose of the armaments is stated to be
not only defense of the mpire but also "the safeguarding
of its (the Empire's) development and for realization of
national policies". This does not mean any new orientation
of Japan's armament policy but it does mean that Japan
has now openly stated that its armaments are not intended
entirely for defense but also for safeguarding Japan's
policy of expansion.
The fifth item, concerning the encouregement of industry,
has aroused some criticism in industrial circles because of
an inconsistency contained therein. In one place the item
mentions "appropriate measures of control of industry" and
later states that the Cabinet will "develop the creative
power of the people and .. encourage their spirit of enter-
prise". It is claimed that these two principles are in-
compatible and that further control of industry will tend
to kill the people's spirit of enterprise.
However, as was stated by some of the newspapers, the
statement of policy does not mean much. The real test of the
Cabinet

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.96)
-7 -
Cabinet will come when it devises concrete measures for
the execution of its declared policies.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosure: Clipping from the JAPAN ADVERTISER, February 12,
1937.
800.2
ERD:r
Copy to American Embassy, Nanking.
Mooolved

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.98)
inclosure No.l, to despatch
To. :: 56, dateu Feb. 15, 1937.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The J: pun Lavertiser.
Tokyo, Friuty, Febru: ry 1, 1957.
Domei gives the text as follows:
ministration in order to deepen the
"It fills me with sincere joy that
sources of the nation's fortunes.
"A chactic situasien.
on this most auspicious occasion of
"2. We seek to observe the articlesant, and 
Empire Day I am privileged to offer
with you. the people of the Empire.
will, to effect round development of this ls the 
a humble prayer for the eternity of
the Imperial reign and the advance
Jupan and to listen to public opinion gromed in se, beed 
of the nation's fortunes. At the same
ir order that fair and righteous poli-
time. we must. I think. take an oath
tics may be carried out.
to cherish in our hearts the day 2.597
"'3. We seek to pursue a national
of sef-secrifice ser the 
years ago when the Emperor Jimmu
diplomatic policy based on national
State and society.
ascended the Throne of Japan in a
unanimity that is calculated to bring
great ceremony at Kashiwabara, lay-
stability to East Asia and co-prosperity
people must come to
ing the foundation for the Heavenly
among nations in accordance with in-
gravity of conditions at
enterprises of all the succeeding
ternational justice in order that in-
road. unite, co-oporate, 
Emperors and to immerse in the great
ternational relations will be made
for the advancement
spirit in which the nation was found-
brighter and more fluent.
serve the publle to 
ed. without comparison in all ages.
"4. We seek to assure the security
conscnant with one's status
thus consolidating in our hearts our
of the Empire, protect its advance and
unflinchingly in promoting
sense of loyalty to the Emperor.
build up the armament necessary for
fortunes.
"Today I was accorded the honor of
thorough enforcement of national poli-
assisting at the solemn rites in the
cies, accompanied by promotion of pro-
seeks to bring about co-org
Palace and the privilege of praying at
ductive power in order that the strength
the Kashikodokoro, Koreiden and Shin-
of the nation may be cultivated at its
mony among all and etmipatie
den. 1 was moved by the gracious
words in which His Majesty expressed
very basis.
5. We seek to carry out schemes for
mounting current diffculties 
evils. to discharg its duty
satisfaction at sharing with us and the
synthetic development of industry in a
banquet in the Palace.
representatives of foreign sovereigns the
joy of the auspicious day at a splendid
it home and abroad and to enforce ap-
propriate measures of protection and bring about bright constiut
manner suitable to economic conditions
"I humbly wish to do m
for the great benevolence of the
peror.
Responsibility Heavy
control and at the same time to de- tics on the beais of these
"Unworthy though I am. I have re- velop the creative power of the people I trust that you, the people
ceived the Grent Command to form a and encourage the spirit of enterprise.' pire. will understand my
Cabinet. and the heavy responsibility: "Needless to say. our nation is a huge tions and co-operate with 
of surmounting the prevailing difficul-family. of which the Imperial House- smke of national umanimdty.
ties has been laid on me. Although I hold is the fountainhead. Polities and
served the Emperor and the State as economy and other matters should be
a soldier for more than 40 years, this pondueted in harmony and with sym-
is the first time that I have launched pathy as in a well-ordered family. and
on the work of a general administra-this should be developed internation-
tor. In view of the extreme gravity of ally.
the situation at home and abroad, I "Recently. however. various unfor-
am filled with awe at the great task tunate ineidents have broken out in
that has falien on so humble a subject this country. Moreover. the general in-
of His Majesty. I can only devote to
ternational unrest has affected Japa-
it my whole mind and soul and strive
nese life in various ways. and the so-
that the will of the Emperor may be
called emergency period has been with
fulfilled. however little I may be ca-
us for some time. We cannot help
pable of doing anything.
being filled with awe to think that the
"Surveying the world situation. I find
situation is such that the Emperor is
that, whether in the Orient or in the
roubled over it. It also seems that
Occident. opposition and rivalry are
here are some people who are not
the order of the day. interest clash-
content with their lot. and this is a
ing with interest and sword with
cause for great worry. Thus the Gov-
sword. Such a state of affairs must
ernment's administrative policy must
be exceedingly remote from the will
start with an examination into the
of Emperor Jimmu that the State, the
must undertake to eliminate them, im-
domestic causes of such a situation and
world and everything in the universe
proving the political structures in order
should be in harnony like a well-or-
to let righteousness and brightness pre-
dered family. that the people of the
vail.
country should ail is like brothers
Objeotives Named
and that each man in his plase should
"In its administrative policy. the
grow and develop in perfect order.
Government must first of all encourage
This sprit has been handed down from
sound development of finanoes and
generation to generation in the fabri
economy. stabilize the living of the
of the Yamato race for nearly 3.000
people. consolidate national defense in
years. The unchanging essence of the
order to face the uneasy international
nation through its history of 3.000
situation and give impetus to the de-
years lies in this.
velopment of national strength.
Platform Cited
"It must seck also to bring about
"The prineiple of government is
co-existence and co-properity among
primarily to move in accord with the
the nations of the Far East on the basis
Imperial will and to make manifest the
of the inseparable relations between
great ideals in which the nation was
Japan and Manchukuo, in order to re-
founded on the basis of the principles
alize the great mission of Japan as
of our na'ional stiucture. In order to
the stabilizing force of the Orient. By
realize these great aims in the current
logica! extension of this, Japan must
state of the world, the present Ca-
contribute thereby to the peace of the
binet has fixed on the following five
world and the happiness of mankind.
points as its platform, as I have al-
"These are the fundamental prin-
ready stated and as you are aware
ciples of the renovation of generl ad-
trom the newspapers and other ac-
ministration that has been panding
counts.
since the formation of the Hirota Cabi-
"For the sake of reference, I shall
net. To realize our aims, all slavi
quote them.
adherence to conventions must be
"I. We seek to make manifest the
avoided. and weakness af spirit and!
glory of our nation. to clucidate the
backwardness must be shunned. At
great principles of worship of the
the same time. there must be no lems
Divine and adoration of the Emperor
of equilibrium or violent radicaliam in
and to enhance the spirit of oneness
our eagerness to bring about renova-
ween relgious rites and political ad-
tion.

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 8, 1937
EHD:
Despatch No. 2273 from Embassy, Tokyo,
"New Party Movement in Janan".
A movement is gaining ground toward
the formation by rightest elements, prin-
cipally the army, of a nationalist party,
which resembles fascism in that it opposes
democratic institutions and would have a
mononoly of government, but it differs
from fascism in that it has no definite
political or economic platforms.
COMMENT:
In Japan, where political loyalties
are largely personal rather than to
principles, the lack of a platform is
not necessarily fatal to its success.
Conversely, no party hovever nowerful
is so important a political factor as
in the United States or Great Britain
as policies are determined not by parties
but by individual consultations among
leaders.
8?4.00/704
JB/DLY

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 8, 1937
WPT:
EHD:
S
Desnatch No. 2268 from Embassy,
Tokyo, "Pclitical Developments in Japan,
February 1 to 16, 1937":
The despatch discusses circumstances
under which General Hayashi's Cabinet was
formed. He being politically a neutral
his choice was in the nature of a com-
promise between those favoring the moderate
Ugaki and the chauvinistic element in the
army led by Itagaki. There is forecasted
a move toward the development of a
single dominating party, inspired by the
army, tc control the niet.
COMMENT
It would anpear that the mandate
to a war leader to form a cabinet is
the logical outcome of a situation in
which army interference in politics
rendered it impossible for a civilian
nremier to exercise full authority and
discharge his responsibility. Now that a
soldier is Premier, the army group will
find it difficult to shift responsibility
for maladministration, which may well
imrel it to move more cautiously and with
greater moderetion.
894.00/702
J:B/TLY

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.93)
60-1
EAmf
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Mo. 2268.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, February 18, 1937.
SUBJECT: POLITICAL DEVELOPMENTS IN JAPAN,
FEBRUARY 1 to 16, 1937.
COPIES SENT TO
894.80
U.N.L.ANDM.LR
37 R  1 5
894.00/702
bui - MiD
10
CPyinFE(391)
B
20
1A
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
477
In continuation of the Embassy's despatch No. 2241,
February 1, l937, I have the honor to report political
developments from February 1 to February 16 connected
with the formation of a cabinet by General Hayashi.
General Hayashi's efforts to form a cabinet began on
January 30, and on February 2 the Cabinet was installed in
FILED
17 1937
office although not entirely complete. By February 10
the Cabinet was as follows:
Premier
F/G

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.98)
60-2
- 2 -
Premier and Foreign Minister, General Senjuro Hayashi.
Minister of Education, General Hayashi (concurrently).
dF
Minister of Overseas Affairs, General Hayashi(concurrently).
War Minister, General Gen Sugiyama.
Navy Minister, Admiral Mitsumasa Yonai.
Minister of Finence, Mr. Toyotaro Yuki.
Minister of Home Affairs, Mr. Kakichi Kawarada.
Minister of Justice, Mr. Suehiko Shiono.
Minister of Communications, Count Hideo Kodama.
Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, Mr. Tatsunosuke
Yamasaki.
Minister of Commerce and Industry,. Admiral Tatsuo Godo.
Minister of Railways, Admiral Godo (concurrently).
These appointees are without party affiliations.
Of this Cabinet the outstanding figure is Mr. Yuki,
Minister of Finance. Mr. Yuki is a banker of long
experience, a men of great force, and an effective
leader. Biographical information on each member of the
new cabinet is being submitted in the usual form, without
covering despatch, by the same pouch by which this de-
spatch is forwarded.
The first statement of policy by the Hayashi Cabinet
was the grandiloquent declaration of five principles com-
701
mented upon by the Embassy's despatch No. 2256 of Feb-
ruary 15, 1937. The second importent statement was
contained in the Premier's speech of February 15(Embassy's
telegram No. 57, February 15, 6 p.m.) to the Diet, which
had until then been continuously prorogued to permit the
new government to pre are measures(including the budget)
to

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.99)
60-3
-3 -
to submit for consideration. The speech showed a desire
for harmonious relations with the Diet, announced that the.
Cabinet would submit a budget ¥270,000,000 less than
that put forward by the Hirota Cabinet before its re-
signation, was firm in tone concerning relations with
the Soviet Unicn(with regard to which the timeliness of
the agreement with Germany against communism was affirmed),
and contained a brief friendly statement about relations
with the United States. A news report of Premier Hayashi's
1/ speech is enclosed.
The present budget for 1937-1938 is in the sum of
¥2,770,000,000, which is stil1 19 higher than the budget
for 1936-1937; but the Hirota budget called for 30% more
than did the 1936-1937 bud et. The saving in comparison
with the Hirota budget is not at the expense of military
a propriations, with the exception of one military item of
¥23,000,000 which is simply deferred until the following
yeer.
The reception accorded by the Diet to the Hayashi
Cabinet has been in the main friendly and smooth, but on
February 16 inter ellations in the Lower House were ad-
versely critical of participation in politics by the military.
Although the debate did not get out of hend it is reported
by the press to have given serious concern to army leaders.
So much for a brief statement of the externals of
Cabinet developments during the period under review. What
was going on behind the scenes? Piecing together the
narrative from the best information available at the present
time, the Embassy submits the following interpretation.

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.97)
60-4
一4 -
When Ugaki's efforts to form a cabinet were blocked,
it was the Army and solely the Army which was responsible
for the failure. All other important groups in the country
u..0
favored Ugaki. To say that the Army was unitedly against
Ugaki, however, would give a false impression. Both
Terauchi and Sugiyama are personally friendly to Ugaki,
but it was utterly impossible for them to assist in the
formation of an Ugaki cabinet because of one group within
the Army which is bitterly opposed to Ugaki. Although
it is impossible to say that the entire Japanese Army
stands for such and such, this one group is known to be
homogeneous, well defined, and clear in its program.
The group is the Kwantung Army faction, the leader of which
is Lieutenant-General Seishiro Itagaki, Chief of Staff
of the Kwantung Army. The Itagaki group believes that
Japan must take Mongolia by a war against the Soviet
Union; it insists upon rapidly mounting military appro-
priations in preparation therefor; it favors state
socialism as launched in Manchuria; it anticipates changes
in Japan modelled after the new régime in Manchuria; it
backs the agreement with Germany against communism; and it
believes in circumscribing politics by the building up of
a monopoly party, under Army inspiration, of the fascist
type. It is the group within the Army of definite poli-
tical ideas and definite political danger.
To the Itagaki group Ugaki as Premier was completely
beyond acceptance. The choice fell on Hayashi as a moderate
soldier without political ideas, and the Itageki group
consented to that choice because in the last years Hayashi
hes

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.99)
60-5
- 5 -
has had the good sense to confine himself to military
affairs rather than to politics. By this principle he
has avoided offending the Itagaki group, although not
himself one of them. But Hayashi has been in various
important positions since serving as assistant to Araki
and of course realizes the strength of the Itagaki group.
This realization, as well as Hayashi's shortcomings in
political intuition, was immediately revealed by Hayashi's
proposing Itagaki as his Mar Minister and Suetsugu as
his Navy Linister.
If, in the face of the Diet attack of January 21
on the Army, Hayashi had gone ahead with his desire to
place Itagaki and Suetsugu in his Cabinet, the result
would have been a political u heaval unparalleled in
Japan in many years.
S ner advisers to Hayashi, who
have followed the trend of public opinion, were able to
stop this mistake. In checking this short-sighted scheme
of Hayashi's the Havy played an important part. When
asked to allow Suetsugu to serve, the Navy put forward
Admiral Yonai who is by all odds the biggest man in the
Japanese Navy, the Togo of the present generation, a
moderate, and opposed to the active program of direction
of the nation's affairs by the Army. So high is Yonai's
standing that it was impossible for Hayashi to refuse
the generous gesture of the Navy in offering his ser-
vices as Navy Minister.
Hayashi's desire to have Itagaki as War Minister
suffered a sinilar fate. The moderate "Big Three" of the
Army(Sugiyama, Terauchi, Umezu) balked absolutely. When
Sugiyama himself was offered the position of War Minister
with

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.98)
60-6
-6-
with Itegaki as Vice Minister again Hayashi was voted
down. The compromise reached was the choice of Naka-
mura, a nondescript moderate, who was succeeded after
a week's time by Sugiyama; but by Sugiyama with Umezu
as Vice Minister, not Itagaki. A man named Sogo, a
follower of the Itagaki group, had acted as adviser
to Hayashi in the organizing of the cabinet, and had
pushed the Itagaki-Suetsugu panel. When calmer heads
won the day Sogo withdrew from the scene in disgust
and has taken up duty at Tientsin in an enterprise
which the Kwantung Army is interested in developing.
Superficially the Itagaki group has been excluded
from the present Government, but the importance of
this exclusion should not be misinterpreted. Hayashi
is a compromise called for by the etiquette of Far
Eastern political psychology, but he is not a serious
handicap to the further development of the aims of
the Itagaki group. The Itagaki group definitely
anticipates war with the Soviet Union and is insistent
on increased appropriations to pave the way. Hayashi
is not co mitted to war but nevertheless believes in
larger military a propriations and will doubtless succeed
in getting them. mis very limitations as a political
thinker make him a Premier not unwelcome to those men
in the Army who have very definite political ideas for
Japan's future.
A compromise choice, Hayashi made his first announce-
ment of policy in the form of five non-committal principles
which might be interpreted by opposing factions at will.
Dependent

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.98)
60-7
P.
- 7 -
Dependent on the Diet's approval of a budget making
large appropriations to the military, he has been
forced to go to the Diet in as friendly an attitude
as possible. There is no reason to suppose that Hayashi
has any special leaning to constitutional politics.
He is simply a soldier and because he desires appro-
priations he is approaching the problem in the smoothest
manner he knows.
It should not be supposed that the Itagaki group
has been shunted off by the developments of-the last
month. In an importent res ect that faction of the
Army has been awakened to new effort. An Itagaki
controlled cabinet has been prevented, and it has
been prevented because of fear of the Diet and the
Diet's influence on public opinion. This failure
has pointed with great force to the need for pushing
another side of the Itagaki progrem: the development
of a monopoly political party to control the Diet
and to permit constitutional politics to operate in a
manner which the Army conceives to be of the nature
of state structure eculiar to Jepan, but which in
actuality would probably be not far different from
the Nazi party system in Germany or the Fascist
party system in Italy.
For this purpose the Army has at hand the nucleus
of an organization vhich simply requires expansion.
Under the leadership of Lieutenent-General Yoshitsugu
Tetekawa, retired, with the cooperation of other retired
officers(Colonel Kingoro ashimoto, Colonel Junichiro
Kobayashi, Vice Admiral Shozaburo Kobayashi) there was
held

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.98)
60-8
7
- 8 -
held on November 15, 1936, a conference of military
organization leaders to discuss the formation of a party
temporarily called the "restoration" party. Making use
of already existing patriotic societies and reactionery
orgenizations, this movement has already shown great
activity and will probably be developed further by the
Army in the present political co tingency.
The lessons
to be derived from the monopoly parties so effectively
employed by Eitler and .ussolini have not been without
a hearing among army men in Ja an. Already in lianchuria,
where the Kantung Army is able to try out its political
philosophy, the Concordia party is carrying into exe-
cution political ideas which are undoubtedly entertained
by the Army for Japan itself.
What can be expected for the future? During the last
two months the people, sensitive (like others of the human
rece) in the region of the purse-string, stunned by a
request for approval of a budget thirty percent larger
than the last because of military demands, gathered their
voice in protest. The government fell. Effort to form
a cabinet favored by the entire civilian population was
blocked by the Army, end a military cabinet, though a
moderate one, has been installed. It presents e slightly
smaller budget but with the same increased military expen-
ditures. Because of the necessity of having the budget
passed, its attitude toward the Diet is friendly and
conciliatory. But, under the surface, back of this
stop-gap cabinet, something else is going on. The Army
has learned its lesson. Under the present organization
of

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.97)
60-9
- 9-
of party politics the Diet can be troublesome. The
Army must work through the Diet also. The next move is
the active development of a single dominating Army-in-
spired party to control the Diet. Concentrated effort
in this direction may confidently be expected. At
present it remains the only point of vulnerability
in the program of the military bureaucracy. In this
connection reference is made to the Embassy's despatch
704
No. 2273,/dated February 18, 1937.
Respectfully yours,
S
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosure: Clipping, "Diet's Co-operation Desired by
Hayashi", JAPAN ADVERTISER, February 16,
1937.
800.
CC:g:r
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.
Copy to Embassy, Moscow.

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1, to despatch
No.2268 , dated Feb.18, 1937.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Tuesday, Feb. 16, 1937.
DIET'S CO-OPERATION
Polity Can Hold Own
"The Imperial Constitution stands un-
shaken under the solemn polity of our
nation, and the Government looks for-
DESIRED BY HAYASHI
ward to the steady and healthy develop-
ment of our unique constitutional gov-
ernment, which is adapted to our peer-
less national polity and is capable of
holding its own against whatever tide
necessity for checking the rise of
Premier Hopes Intentions of
of political thought or doctrine may
in order to stabilise the nat
sweep the world.
Government Will Be Under-
"As regards Japan's foreign policy.
we are guided by the immutable prin-
stood, Bills Passed
ciples of securing the stability of East
Asia and seeking the common pro-
thing to execute some of the prog
SELF-DENIAL
NECESSARY
sperity of all nations in accordance
vith international justice and fair play.
formulated by the previous Cabimek.
Under this policy and through the co-
cperation of the Government and the
the bills proposed by the prevled
Formulation of Policies on Basis
seople. it is our hope to deal properly
Cabinet. but lack of time compelled
of National Polity Held
and effectively with all diplomatic af-
fairs and to place our international re-
tional defense and fnance other
Fundamental Duty
lations in a happy and peaceful at-
mosphere.
"Then. in the light of the current
The co-operation of the Diet in
situation. there is imperative need for
achieving the objectives set forth in
sure the security of the Empire, to ac-
perfecting our national defense to in-
in the present rates, and a bill fer this
purpose is being submitted to the Deel.
the platform of the Government's po-
celerate our national progress and to
tcgether with bills for certain new 
licies was asked by Premier Hayashi
carry out thoroughly our national po-
tegores of taxes.
yesterday in the administrative ad-
licies. The grow:h of national
"The Government will undertake to
dress he delivered in the House of
strength requires a sturdy and virile
give material form to its policies and
devote its best efforts to enhancement of
Peers in the morning and the House
spirit on the part of the people and a
the national fortune. I hope that you
of Representatives in the afternoon.
vigorous productive strength on the
will appreciate its intentions and give
which followed in general the outline
part of industry.
spxedy approval to the various prope-
of the platform.
Industry to Be Adjusted
sals before you."
The text of his address follows as
"It is important that we should ad-
given by Domei:
just our program for industrial ex-
"Following the recent unexpected
pansion to economic condtions at
political crisis. I was appointed Premier
home and abroad and that we hould
to assume the heavy responsibilities of
take necessary measures of protection
State. filling me with awe and profound
and encouragement on the one hand
emotion. In the face of the most seri-
and of suitable control on the other.
ous situation of our country. domesti.
In doing this, of course, we should
as well as international, it is my resolve
guard against possible impairment of
to do my sincere bit in the service of
our Sovereign in accordance with His
the creative power of the people or
2
August Will.
eir spirit of enterprise. which should
"I regret deeply that the change o'
be I stered and encouraged.
Cabinet, coming in the course of the
"It is long these general lines that
70th session. necessitated adjournment
he Govern. nt intends to effect the
2
of the Diet. followed by prorogation.
long-awaited 'ninistrative renova-
causing you to waste many days which
tion and to stabinz. the livelihood of
you would have devoted to the dis-
the nation. I hope ea nestly that we
charge of your duties to the State. Now.
shall be able to carry out the work of
some 10 days after the formation of the
our Government on a fair and just
Cabinet. I have the honor to meet you
basis and to bring about such reforms
in this hall to present the views of the
is are adapted to the needs of the day.
Government and carry on with you the
Elonination of long-standing evils by
stupendous task of surmounting the
avoid.ng sluggishness and rejecting ex-
diffculties that confront our country.
tremes will. I believe, meet with no
"The political program of the Gov-
objections in unv quarter and win the
ernment was announced on February
wholehearted support of all the people.
8. It is the fundamental duty of all who
"Its realization. however. as past ex-
erve the State. no matter under what
serience has shown, is not entirely an
Cabinet. to formulate policies in accord-
casy task because of long-entrenched
ance with the basic principles of our
ustoms and traditions and conflicts of
national polity and to realize and ad-
interest It cannot be accomplianed
vance the ideals on which the country
without self-denial and display of pub-
was found. It goes without saying.
lic spirit, or without the united efforts
therefore. that the Government will,
of the entire nation. I ask sincerely for
first of all. strive to clarify the concept
your co-operation, by means of which
of our national polity and to elucidate
I hops to realize the above ins.
the great principles of piety and loyalty
to the Throne
