894.415 History., Commemorative Celebrations. Celebrations Outside Home Country Are Carried In 8**.46., November 1, 1940 - December 16, 1940 (File 1231)
ID: 894.415-1231   Pages: 33   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.415-history-commemorative-celebrations-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.92)
April 2 1940

To the American Consular Officer in Charge,
Tokyo, Japan.

The Chief of the Division of Cultural Relations has received from the Kokusai Bunka Shinkokai a letter dated February 2, 1940, with regard to a world-wide prize essay contest under the auspices of that organization. The Department desires that the Consulate General, in its discretion, make acknowledgment of the letter, stating that the contents have been noted.

1894.415/9

CC
FE:CC:JPS
3-29
OR
APR 1 1940

CC
FE
3-29

RC
RS

M

894.415/9

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISION OF PROTOCOL
NOV 11 1940
Department of State

# TELEGRAM RECEIVED

This telegram must be closely paraphrased before being communicated to anyone. (C)

FROM Tokyo
Dated November 1, 1940
Rec'd 4 a.m.

Secretary of State,
Washington.

Telegram to Tokyo
Drafted Nov 1, 1940
CC

Division of FAR EASTERN UNION
NOV 1 1940
Department of State

1084, November 1, 11 a.m.

The 2600th Anniversary of the founding of the Japanese Empire will be celebrated in Tokyo November 10th with great ceremony. Please inform me by cable whether the President will send a congratulatory message to the Emperor on that occasion. I recommend that such a message be sent.

The British Embassy has received from London a request for the Ambassador's recommendation as to the propriety of a similar message from the King and has asked me whether such a message will be sent by the President. I would, therefore, welcome an early reply.

GREW

TFV

894.415

FILED
NOV 11 1940
894.415/10
Confidential File

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM SENT
Department of State
PREPARING OFFICE WILL INDICATE WHETHER
Collect Full rate
Day letter
Night letter
Charge Department
This cable was sent in confidential Code.
It should be carefully paraphrased before
being communicated to anyone.
Charge to
1 PM 6 48
Washington,
November 1, 1940.
8 PM
S
AMEMBASSY,
TOKYO (JAPAN) RECORDS
436
Your 1084, November 1, 11 a.m.
In the light of the message of February 11 direct
from the President to the Emperor (see your 44, Janu-
ary 25, 5 p.m., and the Department's 53, February 7,
5 p.m.) and of the acknowledgment made to the President
by the Emperor on February 12, we are inclined to the
view that a similar message from the President at this time would be re-
dundant. We suggest for your consideration that, if
the celebration on November 10 requires in your judg-
ment some recognition from the President, of the cele-
bration of this might be taken care of by reference on
your part, in some manner which you consider appropriate,
to the President's telegraphic message to the Emperor
of February 11. If, however, you feel that this would
not repeat not appropriately meet the amenities of the
situation, please so inform the Department by telegraph
in order that the Department may give further considera-
tion to the whole matter.
H WEL
894.415/10
894.415/10
Confidential File
F/FG
1-1462
CC
FE: CC: HES
1-1462
DEPARTMENT PRINTING OFFICE
FEB 1945
PA/H
PR

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.96)
Division of
FEDERAL
NOV 8 1940
Department of State

# TELEGRAM RECEIVED

This telegram must be closely paraphrased before being communicated with anyone (B)

FROM Tokyo
Dated November 2, 1940
Rec'd 8:48 a.m.

Secretary of State,
Washington.

1091, November 2, noon.

The culmination of the celebration of the 2600th anniversary of the founding of the Japanese Empire will take place on November 10 and 11, the main ceremonies being held in the presence of the Emperor. A great pavilion has been erected in the Palace square and well over a million people from other parts of Japan and from abroad are expected to come to Tokyo for the occasion. The Japanese press during that period will of course be filled with flamboyant patriotism.

I stress the importance in Japanese eyes of this period merely to indicate that if at that particular time, so much patriotic fervor will be stimulated to a high pitch, a foreign Government should take some measure which might be interpreted as hostile to Japan, such a measure would probably be magnified by the Japanese public out of all proportion to its intrinsic importance, and

Japanese

894.415
Note
711.94

DIVISION OF
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
NOV 4 - 1940
Department of State

FILED
NOV 13 1940
894.415/11
F-E-H

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
MH -2- From Tokyo, 1091, November 2, noon.

Japanese resentment against the measure would be proportionately sharpened.

I have no reason to believe that any such measure is at present contemplated by our Government but I bring the foregoing consideration to the Department's attention merely with the thought of avoiding some miscalculation in timing through pure coincidence.

GREW

CSB

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Berlin, November 17, 1940.

No. 3841

Subject: Hitler's Message to the Japanese Nation
on the Occasion of the 2600th Anniversary
of the Imperial Dynasty

The Honorable
The Secretary of State
Washington

Sir:

In referring to that section of this Embassy's
telegram No. 4734 of November 17, 1940 which treated of
Hitler's message to the Japanese nation on the occasion
of the 2600th anniversary of the Imperial Dynasty, I
have the honor to quote below in translation the text
of the message as it was published throughout Germany:

"Message of the Führer to the Japanese Nation.

"Berlin, November 16. (DNB) On the occasion
of the 2600th anniversary of the Japanese im-
perial house the Führer addressed the following
message to the Japanese nation:

"I extend the greetings of Germany to the
friendly Japanese nation on the occasion of
the 2600th anniversary of its imperial house.
Together with the German people I recall with
admiration the achievement during this long
period in building up the Japanese Empire.
The Japanese people can remember with pride
that no enemy has ever been able to set foot
on its island as the master and that by this
very fact its race has been kept pure for
thousands of years.

"Japan can note with satisfaction that
its

=== Page 7 === (confidence 1.00)
- 2 -

its influence in the East Asian areas and its importance in the world have steadily grown and that today, as the leading power of East Asia, it can lay claim to the task of fashioning the new order of a better and more just world together with the leading powers of other continents.

"It is therefore with sincere joy that I today express my good wishes to the allied Japanese people. Japan, which stands with the German and Italian peoples in a hard struggle for its vital rights, will, true to its heroic tradition, achieve the aim which destiny has set it:

"A successful peace in an assured living space!"

This message, which was given the widest publicity by the German press and radio, was accompanied by a second demonstration of the Führer's present interest in the Japanese ally when he attended a reception at the Japanese Embassy thus departing for the second time only from his practice of not visiting diplomatic missions at Berlin of foreign powers. His first visit of that nature was to the Embassy of his Italian ally. The official Dienst aus Deutschland published in its November 16 release the following comment, obviously designed for consumption abroad, on the Führer's message:

"Japan -- Spain -- Rumania. DAD. Berlin, November 16, 1940.

"The personal message of Adolf Hitler to the Japanese nation is taken in Berlin diplomatic circles as a gesture which is very indicative of the cordial character of Japanese-German relations. This manifestation of hearty agreement is further emphasized by the visit of the Führer to the Japanese Embassy, since after a visit to the Italian Embassy it is the second visit of the Head of the German State to a foreign Embassy. The close political agreement between Germany and Japan and Italy as the third partner of the Three Power Pact finds a notable formulation in Adolf Hitler's message. The message speaks of the claim of Japan, as the leading power in East Asia, to fashion the new order of a better and more just world together with the leading powers of other continents. Referring explicitly to the fact that Japan stands with the German and Italian peoples in a hard struggle for its vital rights, Adolf Hitler expresses the conviction that Japan will achieve the aim set it by destiny: 'A successful peace in an assured living space'. Thus the general purpose of the Three Power Pact and its execution in the policies of the participating powers has once again been clearly defined on a fundamental basis..."

The

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -

The message to Japan, coming as it did between the recent visit of Molotov and the impending visit of Suner, the Spanish Foreign Minister, gives concrete evidence of the rather feverish diplomatic activity now originating at Berlin. The German authorities apparently desire to retain and make use of the diplomatic initiative when, for any reason, initiative on the military front appears not to be feasible.

Respectfully yours,

Leland Morris
Charge d'Affaires ad interim

800
LMH/hew

Copy to Embassy at Tokyo

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS

January 8, 1941

TCKYO'S 5172, November 26, 1940, subject: "Celebration of the 2600th Anniversary of the Founding of the Japanese Empire".

The despatch describes the impressive ceremonies in connection with the above celebrations and encloses translations of three of the congratulatory messages and the two Imperial Rescripts read.

You may care to note that although the Japan Times and Advertiser carried translations of the first Imperial Rescript as well as the addresses by Prince Konoye and Prince Takamatsu, and also the address of Mr. Grew as Dean of the Corps, it carried no translation of the second and final Imperial Rescript read by the Emperor in which he gave concrete expression to his hope for the restoration of peace with all countries.

The ceremonies were conducted in a pavillion-celebration hall with temporary benches in front of it for the 50,000 persons invited to attend. In the center of the pavillion surrounding the throne for the Emperor

=== Page 10 === (confidence 1.00)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-

Emperor and Empress were places for the highest dignitaries of Japan, including the heads of foreign diplomatic missions, while other Japanese civil and military officials and members of the diplomatic corps sat on the benches in front of the pavilion. Both days the Emperor wore military uniform and the Empress foreign dress.

The reading of a congratulatory message by Prince Konoye on the first day was followed by the reading of an Imperial Rescript and then three "banzais" were led by Konoye at exactly 11:25 a.m. It was contemplated that all of Japanese subjects wherever they were would participate in the "banzais" due to the fact that the ceremony was broadcast. The second day's program was similar with Prince Takamatsu officiating.

The Embassy states that the ceremonies were convincing of the deep-seated reverence felt by the Japanese for the Imperial line.

Enclosure 1, Imperial Rescript, read November 10, in which the Emperor states inter alia, "Now the fate of the country depends on the rapid changes in world situations. ... We have recently given you to expand a great way intact from the age of the Gods at home and abroad and thereby contribute to the welfare of humanity and friendly relations among all countries".

Enclosure 2

=== Page 11 === (confidence 1.00)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-3-

Enclosure 2, addressed by Prince Konoye, in which after reviewing the history of the founding of the Empire and referring to the virtues of its present Emperor, Konoye states: "Under the present world situation His Highness has despatched forces to a foreign land, concluded an alliance with friendly Powers in an effort to establish the stability of East Asia and thereby promote the peace of the world". The address concludes by referring to the privilege it is to be alive now in order to assist in the Imperial plan of Universal Brotherhood.

Enclosure 3, the address of Prince Takamatsu, after references to Japanese history, states: "The Emperor is planning the stabilization of East Asia on an eternal footing by resorting to armed force in a foreign land and is desirous of making a contribution to the eternal peace of the universe through the accord which has been reached with friendly Powers". Takamatsu further states that Japanese subjects are pledged to act in unison to support the Imperial Rule and to solve the difficulties of the current situation.

Enclosure 4, Imperial Rescript, read November 11, the Emperor concludes by stating: "It is our earnest hope that peace will be restored

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-4-

restored soon and that We may share with all countries happiness and prosperity, albeit the world is now in the midst of great turmoil".

Enclosure 5, Mr. Grew's address, suggested by the Department.

That part of the despatch which refers to the Emperor's obvious approval of Mr. Grew's speech has been covered by the telegram under reference.

FE:Fales:OJL
FE

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.91)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF STAFF
MILITARY ON POLITICAL RELATIONS
MR. HON. BECK
JAN 13 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, November 26, 1940.

No. 5172.

SUBJECT: CELEBRATION OF THE 2600TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE FOUNDING OF THE JAPANESE EMPIRE.

894.415/13

894.415
Copy in F.E.
ONI after MID.

894.415
Copy
IN
NEW YORK
JAN 22 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

UNITED SECRETARY OF STATE
JAN 21 1941
SR. WELLES

COPY SENT TO
C.M. AFTER
M.L.D.
A.E.K.

The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.

Sir:

With reference to my telegram no. 1134, November 12, 2 p.m., regarding the national celebration of the 2600th anniversary of the founding of the Japanese Empire, I have the honor to transmit, for purposes of record, translations of

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

1/ of the Imperial Rescript read by the Emperor and the congratulatory message read by Prince Konoye on November 10,
2/ the congratulatory message read by Prince Takamatsu, the
3/ Emperor's brother, and the Imperial Rescript read by the
4/ Emperor on November 11, and a copy of the address which I
5/ delivered on November 11 as Dean of the Diplomatic Corps,
using the exact text suggested by the Department. These
Rescripts and messages were delivered in the course of
celebration ceremonies held in the plaza in front of the
Imperial Palace at Tokyo.

It was reported in my telegram under reference that
my French colleague, who was in a position to observe the
Emperor closely, interpreted the facial expression of the
Emperor and his nods during the course of my address as
indicating his agreement with the sense thereof, particularly the final reference to Japan's contribution to
the general culture and well-being of mankind. The French
Ambassador concluded that the Emperor wished in this manner
to impress upon his Government and high officials his desire
for peace. It will be observed that in the Imperial Rescript
read on the second day of the ceremonies (Enclosure no. 4),
the Emperor gave concrete expression to his hope for the
restoration of peace with all countries. It may be mentioned
as of possible significance in this connection that, although
the JAPAN TIMES AND ADVERTISER carried translations of the
Imperial Rescript read by the Emperor on November 10 and the
addresses of Prince Konoye and Prince Takamatsu, as well as
the

=== Page 15 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-

the text of my address, it published no translation of the Imperial Rescript read by the Emperor on the second day.

The ceremonies in front of the Imperial Palace marked the beginning of five days of celebration to be observed throughout the Empire. Credit for the idea of the special celebrations is given to Baron Yoshiro Sakatani, chairman of the organizing committee of celebrations, whose suggestions and plans have been developing during the last ten years.

A beautiful pavilion or celebration hall in the classic Japanese style was specially constructed for the occasion and temporary benches were set up in front of the pavilion to seat the fifty thousand persons invited to attend. Representatives of the people from all parts of the Empire and from abroad, civilian, military and naval officials and members of the diplomatic corps, except chiefs of mission, occupied these benches.

Placed in the center of the pavilion was a throne for the Emperor and Empress and on either side of the throne was space to accommodate the highest dignitaries of Japan, Princes and Princesses of the Blood, the premier and all State ministers, heads of foreign diplomatic missions, the President of the House of Peers, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, officials of shinnin rank (appointed directly by the Emperor), persons holding the Grand Order of the Chrysanthemum, and the wives of all the foregoing.

On both days the ceremonies opened when the Emperor in military uniform and the Empress in foreign dress entered and

=== Page 16 === (confidence 1.00)
-4-

and were conducted to the throne by Prince Takamatsu. All others present had already taken their places, except the Imperial Princes and Princesses who followed the Emperor and Empress. Music by military and naval bands and profound bows by all present accompanied the ceremonial entry of Their Majesties.

On the first day, Prince Konoye announced the opening of the ceremonies from below the pavilion, then mounted the staircase and approaching the throne read his congratulatory message. The Emperor responded by reading an Imperial Rescript. The climax of the first day's ceremonies was reached when Prince Konoye led three "banzais" for the Emperor at exactly 11.25 a.m. Participants in this cheering were not limited to the fifty thousand persons present. As the ceremony was broadcast, it was contemplated that all the Emperor's subjects would join in the cheering at exactly the same moment.

On November 11 the setting was the same as on the previous day and, in general, the program was similar. Added features on the second day, however, included an exhibition of an ancient court dance, which was performed on a stage in front of the ceremonial hall, and a cold banquet which was provided for all persons in attendance, including the Emperor and Empress, and which was eaten while the ceremonial dance was being performed. The dance stage was about twenty-five feet square with a red lacquered railing, and music on Japanese instruments accompanied the dancers who were dressed in costumes of the Nara period. Following Japanese custom, not

=== Page 17 === (confidence 1.00)
-5-

not much more than pretense was made of eating the various dishes provided and the greater part of the repast, consisting of tinned food, rice, buns, pickled vegetables, Japanese wine and fruit, was carried away by the guests in silk wrappers provided for that purpose. Each guest was also presented with an artistically bound two-volume set of books containing poems written by various Japanese emperors and short sketches extolling the virtues of a number of Japanese monarchs. On the second day, cheering to the Emperor was led by Prince Takamatsu who stood in the center of the dancing stage with upraised arms as he shouted "banzai" and received the answering "banzais" of the assembled fifty thousand persons who likewise stood with upraised arms. The local press commented that Prince Takamatsu is the first Imperial Prince to lead cheering for the Emperor.

Preparations for the celebration ceremonies were most thorough with the result that every detail of the program, including the seating, according to arrangement, of the multitude of guests, was carried out with perfect smoothness. The success of the occasion was favored, moreover, by exceptionally warm, bright weather on both days. The ceremonies were very impressive and they afforded a convincing demonstration of the deep-seated reverence felt by Japanese for their Emperor and the Imperial line.

Although

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.97)
-6-

Although the celebrations centered in the Imperial Palace Grounds, all Tokyo joined in the spirit of the occasion. Large parades and crowds of spectators thronged through the main thoroughfares, flags decked the streets and a number of gaily festooned tram cars operated through the city.

Respectfully yours,

Joseph C. Grew.

841.5
CAC:C

Original and 2 copies to Department.

5 en C

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1, to despatch No. 5172, dated Nov. 26, 1940, from the Embassy at Tokyo.

The Japan Times and Advertiser.
Tokyo, Monday, Nov. 11, 1940.

"It is a source of Our deep appreciation that on this occasion of the 2,600th anniversary of the founding of the Empire, numerous Government officials and the people have gathered together to hold a celebration to enhance the spirit of the establishment of Our country.

"Now, the fate of a country depends on rapid changes in world situations. Know ye, Our subjects, We expect you to realize the spirit of the rescript. We have recently given you to expand a great way intact from the age of the Gods at home and abroad and thereby contribute to the welfare of humanity and friendly relations among all countries."

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 2, to despatch No. 5172, dated Nov. 26, 1940, from the Embassy at Tokyo.

The Japan Times and Advertiser.
Tokyo, Monday, Nov. 11, 1940.

## Konoe Delivers Address

In reply, Premier Konoe delivered a congratulatory address at the grand ceremonies held at the hall of ceremony of the Imperial Palace plaza, which Domei reports as follows:

"When our Imperial founder established the country, began Her rule and made Her grandchild reign over the Eight Provinces. She gave him a divine rescript and the Three Sacred Treasures. The Imperial reign thus established was banned down to the Emperor Jimmu, who greatly developed the founder's work, established the capital at Kashiwara, come to the Throne and ruled over the entire realm with virtue.

"Since then, all succeeding Emperors have inherited the divine rule, consolidated its foundation and added to the great Imperial plan straight down to the present—the 2,600th year.

"Therefore, the sacredness of our national structure is naturally unparalleled in all the world. This humble subject most respectfully considers that our present Emperor is wise, virtuous and brave and His Majesty has so excellently administered State affairs, developed education and adjusted military preparations that everyone in the nation now shares the benefit of His Majesty's virtue.

## Accomplishments Noted

"Under the present world situation, His Highness has dispatched forces to a foreign land, concluded an alliance with friendly Powers in an effort to establish the stability of East Asia and thereby promote the peace of the world.

"Thus is indeed a task of unprecedented magnitude carried out by His Majesty's infinite virtue and entirely coincides with the initial ideas of the Emperor Jimmu at the outset of his task. We subjects, who have been born in this glorious era and watch the great advance of the Imperial task, cannot help feeling great emotion and delight.

"On this glorious occasion of the foundation anniversary, it is a source of our utmost emotion to receive a gracious rescript from His Majesty, and we hereby respectfully swear that we will, in perfect co-operation, observe the Imperial instruction, further bring the essence of our national structure into play and thereby overcome the present emergency and assist the Imperial plan of Hakko Ichin, Universal Brotherhood, so that we may be able to respond to His Majesty's boundless virtues.

"Today we have been given an exceptional honor in the form of the presence of Their Majesties the Emperor and Empress, which makes us further recall the founding of the country in the remote past and the grand plan of our Imperial ancestors with a growing emotion. This humble subject, Funamaru Konoe, being at the time of the Cabinet, despite his poor experience, most reverently takes the liberty of proceeding to the presence of the Emperor and Empress to extend congratulations on the long life of Their Majesties and the infiniteness of the Imperial reign."

Following yesterday's celebration, Their Majesties will attend today's celebration, also to be held at the ceremonial hall, reports Domei. Their Majesties will leave the Palace at 1:48 o'clock this afternoon, accompanied by Grand Chamberlain Saburo Hyakutake, Imperial Household Minister Tsuneo Matsudaira, Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal Koichi Kido and other high officials.

Their Majesties will be welcomed by Prince Takamatsu, brother of the Emperor, acting for Prince Chichibu, patron of the Society for Celebrating the 2,600th Anniversary of the Empire, other Imperial Princes. Prince Funamaru Konoe, president of the society, and others at the hall entrance. The Imperial Princes, Prince Konoe and others will be received in audience by Their Majesties at a rest room. Then, led by Prince Takamatsu, Their Majesties will be ushered into the main hall.

After the singing of the national anthem by all present, Prince Takamatsu will read a congratulatory message in the presence of the Emperor and Empress. He will be followed by American Ambassador Joseph C. Grew, doyen of the Tokyo diplomatic corps, who, representing all foreign envoys, will read a message of congratulation. A banquet will follow.

During the course of the banquet, the Imperial Household orchestra will play the ancient composition, Yokyu, or Eternity, composed for the auspicious occasion; the army and navy bands will play the symphony Daikanki, or Great Joy, and a march celebrating the Empire founding anniversary, and 3,000 representatives of all school students in Japan will play 2,600th Anniversary of the Empire founding with the army and navy bands.

Prince Takamatsu will then lead the shouting of three banzai for the Emperor, which will be joined in by all those present. Prince Konoe then will report to the Throne that the function is over. Their Majesties will leave the hall at 3:05 o'clock.

Those who attend today's celebration and banquet will be given a box containing delicacies, some gifts and rice-wine.

Seats near the Throne will be occupied by Prince Takamatsu, Prince Konoe, Marquis Yukitada Sasaki and Mr. Kazutami Tago, respectively vice-president and vice-speaker of the House of Peers and House of Representatives, who are vice-presidents of the society, Baron Yoshiro Sakatani, also its vice-president, Dr. Yoshinichi Hara, president of the Privy Council, all Cabinet Ministers, full generals and admirals, and many other high officials of the Government and their wives.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3, to dispense No. 5172, dated Nov. 28, 1940, from the Embassy at Tokyo.

# The Japan Times and Advertiser.
## Tokyo, Tuesday, Nov. 12, 1940.

## Prince Delivers Address

The congratulatory address of Prince Takamatsu was as follows:

"I, Nobuhito, a subject, and proxy of the honorary president of the fete in celebration of the 2,600th anniversary of the foundation of the Empire, say with all respect that it is 2,600 years now since the Imperial Ancestor ascended the eternal Imperial Throne. On the auspicious occasion which comes during the reign of the Emperor, who is the descendant of the line of Imperial Rulers, elaborate rites were conducted at the Imperial Palace to mark Kigensetsu and a gracious message was granted by the Emperor, in which the great way to be trodden by the subjects of the Empire was indicated and a decree was issued granting a amnesty, thereby making Imperial benevolence prevail. The Grand Shrines of Ise and Imperial Mausolea were visited by the Emperor personally. The Emperor also personally inspected the army and the navy, thereby invigorating the morale of the officers and men. I was profoundly impressed by these manifestations of profound Imperial thought.

"We, subjects of the Emperor, selected today as the auspicious day for the celebration of the 2,600th anniversary of the foundation of the Empire by holding a fete in the presence of the Emperor and Empress. We see auspicious clouds gather and surround the Imperial Palace which is brimming over with the spirit of concord and joy. There is no subject of the Emperor, residing in the remotest corner of the Empire, who do not honor the grand occasion.

"I look round and see the world face to face with the most abnormal situation that it has ever faced. The Emperor is planning the stabilization of East Asia on an eternal footing by resorting to armed force in a foreign land and is desirous of making a contribution to the eternal peace of the universe through the accord which has been reached with friendly Powers. I am overwhelmed a sense of the profoundness of the Imperial policy. We, subjects of the Emperor, are pledged to act in unison to support the Imperial Rule and to solve the difficulties of the current situation, thereby repaying a fraction of the benevolence of the Emperor. We, subjects of the Emperor, who happen to enjoy glorious Imperial Rule, are overwhelmed with joy on the present auspicious occasion. I, Nobuhito, subject of the Emperor, present this message to the Throne with all respect."

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 4 to despatch
no. 5172 dated November 26, 1940,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.

Translation of an Imperial Rescript given on the second day
of the National Celebration of the 26th Centenary of the
Founding of the Empire of Japan, November 11, 1940.

On the occasion of the national celebration of the
26th Centenary of the Founding of Our Empire it affords Us
high gratification to share the rejoicing with representa-
tives of foreign Powers and with Our subjects in and outside
the Government.

It is Our earnest hope that peace will be restored soon
and that We may share with all countries happiness and
prosperity, albeit the world is now in the midst of great
turmoil.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 5 to despatch
no. 5172 dated November 26, 1940,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.

Text of address delivered by the American Ambassador, Mr. Grew, on behalf of the Diplomatic Corps, on the occasion of the 2600th Anniversary of the Founding of the Japanese Empire, November 11, 1940.

Your Imperial Majesty:

It is with a profound sense of the solemnity of this occasion that on behalf of representatives of the foreign Powers here assembled I express their deep appreciation of the privilege of attending the celebration of this historic anniversary of the founding of the Japanese Empire.

This anniversary symbolizes and marks the long continuity of history and tradition for which Japan is deservedly distinguished.

Today, on this momentous and profoundly significant occasion, the members of the Diplomatic Corps in Tokyo desire to convey to Your Imperial Majesty and to the Japanese nation their most respectful and sincere felicitations. May health and happiness attend Your Imperial Majesty, their Imperial Majesties the Empress and the Empress Dowager, and other members of the Imperial House. May your people prosper, and may the nation ever increasingly contribute to the general culture and well-being of mankind.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS

January 10, 1941.

Reference Tsingtao's no. 33 of November 18, 1940 entitled "Celebration at Tsingtao of the 2600 Anniversary of the Founding of the Japanese Empire".

There would appear to be no need for you to read the account in Consul Meyer's despatch of the celebration at Tsingtao of the 2600 anniversary of the founding of the Japanese Empire.

894.415/14

FE:Schuler:JPS

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.91)
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Tsingtao, China, November 18, 1940.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECEIVED
JAN - 3 1941
DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS

[Handwritten: "C
[Handwritten: "A
[Handwritten: "A
[Handwritten: "A" and "A" with "A" and "REK"]
[Handwritten: "A" and "A" with "Dile" and "JMA"]

SUBJECT: Celebration at Tsingtao of the 2600 Anniversary of the Founding of the Japanese Empire.

THE HONORABLE
[Handwritten: "C
[Handwritten: "A
[Handwritten: "A" and "A" with "REK"]
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.

SIR:

I have the honor to state that a celebration of the 2600 anniversary of the founding of the Japanese Empire occurred in Tsingtao on November 10, 1940. The celebration was participated in by representatives of all the various Chinese and Japanese groups such as officials, business organizations, schools, et cetera, in the city. Participants carried small Japanese flags which they waved at appropriate times. The athletic field of the Japanese First Primary School was the scene of a ceremony, which commenced at 9 o'clock in the morning with parades by the various groups led by bands. At 10 o'clock the entire gathering turned toward Tokyo to pay homage to the Emperor after which the National anthem was sung. The Japanese Acting Consul General read the Imperial Message after which there were speeches by Mayor Chao Chi and others. After three Banzais the official part of the ceremony was over. A procession was then formed

894.415/14
PS/GC
FILED
JAN 16 1941
COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
Department of State
894.415
04

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -

formed which paraded through the streets of Tsingtao, stopping for songs before the prominent Japanese official establishments. In the evening a special entertainment for the Japanese community was held in the Japanese Army Club.

It was reported in the press, from which the above has been taken, that the German School was represented at the ceremony at the Japanese Third Primary School grounds.

Respectfully yours,

Paul W. Meyer
American Consul

In quintuplicate
Copy to Embassy, Peiping,
Copy to Embassy, Chungking.

800
PWM:ad

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.94)
DECLASSIFIED
E.O. 11652, Sec. 3(E) and 5(D) or (E)
OSD letter, May 3, 1972
By ___, NARS Date 4/14/73

HEADQUARTERS HAWAIIAN DEPARTMENT
OFFICE OF THE DEPARTMENT COMMANDER
FOR THE
WAR DEPARTMENT

16 December, 1940.

IN REPLY REFER TO:
550.05 (8-2)

Subject: Comments on Current Events - No. 4.
(Period: 15 November - 16 December, 1940).

The Adjutant General,
Washington, D.C.

Reference CONFIDENTIAL letter, AG 550.05 (8-5-40) M-B-N,
dated 17 August 1940:

Local Japanese Participation In
Japan's Empire Celebration

Of far-reaching significance was the recent celebration in Tokyo commemorating the 2600th anniversary of the Japanese empire. The participation therein by more than 5,000 Japanese living outside Japan, the majority in the United States and Hawaii, was especially significant. The ceremonies throughout obviously were calculated to revive and to emphasize race consciousness, and to inbue Japanese everywhere with the "superiority" of the Japanese race and the determination to assert Japan's position.

The participation of Japanese from abroad, including the selection of official representatives, was handled by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In addition to the strictly ceremonial features of the event, there were special conferences and conventions of "everseas" Japanese, which likewise were sponsored by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. These were of two kinds:

(1) Round table conferences of 37 carefully selected representatives from North, Central, and South America, and the South Seas (Hawaii being included in the latter geographical division), held at Tokyo, 5-8 November, inclusive. The reason for the comparatively small number of representatives selected for these conferences was, as explained by the local Nippu Jiji, "because of the necessity of closely investigating the court rank and honors and the personal records of these chosen." Only two from Hawaii were thus honored, they being the presidents of the Honolulu United Japanese Society and the Hilo Japanese Society. Also selected as representatives of the Japanese in Hawaii were two former prominent Japanese residents of the Territory, who still control large commercial interests here;

CLASSIFIED
JAN 21 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

FILED
JAN 21 1941
U.S. DISTRICT COURT
HOUSTON, CONN.

OFFICE CHIEF OF INTELLIGENCE
MIL., INTEL. DIV.
10641-372
32
16 AG 330.054.415/15 (12-16-40)
FILED
FEB 26 1941

=== Page 28 === (confidence 1.00)
CONFIDENTIAL

(2) A more general gathering of "overseas" Japanese, called "The Overseas Japanese Tokyo Convention", held for five days, beginning 4 November, and attended by approximately 2,000 Japanese from abroad. This gathering was held under the joint auspices of the Overseas Affairs and Foreign Affairs Ministries and an unnamed civilian agency. Approximately 300 Japanese from Hawaii attended this convention.

The "Overseas Japanese Tokyo Convention" represented the realization of efforts of Japanese abroad, who have long been dispossessed of both American and Japanese citizenship rights. Delegates from Hawaii, most of whom left aboard the "Kamakura Maru" for Japan, 4 October, held meetings with Japanese from the mainland aboard ship and drew up a number of resolutions to be presented at the convention. It is important to note the conditional stipulation made by these local and United States Japanese residents, as reported in the Nippu Jiji, 29 October, that, "while we are in accord with the program for a new order in East Asia and the new national structure of our ancestral country, we will at the same time demand that the relationships and mutually advantageous economic relations between Japanese living abroad and those living in the ancestral country be made closer". In line with this sentiment, the more important of these resolutions advocated: 1) that the Japanese living abroad be more closely united in fellowship and in economic matters with their countrymen in Japan, and that steps be taken by the convention to bring this about; 2) that an organization be established in Tokyo to strengthen the relations between organizations in Japan and those in foreign countries; 3) that conventions of "overseas" Japanese be held annually in Japan.

These resolutions were introduced at the convention and unanimously approved. As a result, the establishment in Tokyo of the "Overseas Japanese Central Society" was decided on and a committee, comprising delegates from the various Japanese centers of population abroad, was appointed to form the society. Branches will be established in five areas of Japanese population: North America, South America, Hawaii, the South Seas, and East Asia. It has been announced that the Society will be maintained at an estimated cost of ¥150,000 per annum, one-half to be borne by Japanese in Japan and the other half prorated among Japanese in the five areas just named. The quota set for the Japanese in Hawaii is ¥15,000 per year, (approximately $300 per month). It is also announced that a director from the central organization in Japan will be sent to Hawaii early in 1941 to head up the local branch. It is noteworthy that Hawaii "was acclaimed as the strongest representative organ of Japanese residing abroad" by the committee named to organize the society.

-2-

CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL

The participation by American citizens of Japanese ancestry in the Tokyo celebration is of interest. Some 300 such were permitted to take part. At a special meeting of representatives of this group on 26 September, LIEUTENANT GENERAL KIOMIJIRO HAMADA, of the Japanese Army, outlined what Japanese dispatches termed "the key of solution to the problems of second generation Japanese." This consisted of the following suggestions: 1) that the color of your skin, derived from the Yamate race, will never change - that even the third, fourth, fifth (ad infinitum) generations will be of yellow race ancestry; 2) that there will be no change in the superiority complex of the white race. The General expressed the hope that the so-called second generation Japanese would carefully consider his suggestions. As spokesman for the gathering, KAZUMA NAKAYAMA, a young Japanese from Vancouver, B.C., responded to the General's suggestions, stating: "The key points expressed by GENERAL HAMADA have incited in us the determination to learn and master the Japanese spirit and make the Yamate race a superior one." As reflecting further the race enthusiasm engendered by the Tokyo celebration among the American citizens of Japanese ancestry, during a special radio program over the network of the Nippon Overseas Broadcasting Corporation, directed at the Japanese in Hawaii, MRS. JIRO HAYAKAWA, a Honolulu resident, remarked: "I feel really happy because so many Nisei were glad that they were born Japanese."

Japanese officials were most considerate in their treatment of local Japanese. They were honored with invitations to the "Emperor's Review", held 21 October, where they were given unusually good seats by Japanese army officers. They were also given special permission by the Imperial household to visit the "kenehufu", a special structure erected on the imperial premises in honor of officers and soldiers who participated in the Manchurian and Shanghai incidents. "Even men of high rank in Japan do not get this rare privilege", boasted the local Nippu Jiji. Another "truly great honor", according to the Jiji, was the invitation to the delegates to view the chrysanthemum exhibits.

The Tokyo celebration reached its culmination, so far as the local Japanese were concerned, in the honoring of 27 of the principal Japanese leaders of Hawaii with special awards in recognition of their past endeavors. These awards included wooden cups and written testimonials of merit, granted by the Japanese Foreign Ministry.

-3-

CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL

Expatriation

The petition of Hawaiian-born Japanese to the Secretary of State, requesting the latter to negotiate with the Japanese government for a more simplified expatriation procedure, will be presented by the Territory's delegate to Congress, S. W. KING, who left recently to return to Washington. The petition carries over 50,000 signatures, approximately one-third of the estimated total number of Japanese dual citizens presently in the Islands.

However, the signatories were not limited to dual citizens; many who signed the petition were expatriates. It appears that the emphasis of the campaign was on obtaining an imposing number of signatures to the petition, rather than that the petition should represent the desire of dual citizens. The following points are pertinent to any consideration of the expatriation issue:

1. The publicity attending the recent campaign, as well as the phraseology of the petition to be presented to the Secretary of State, is having the effect of "appeasing" the American element of the community, the faction most critical of the issue of dual citizenship. It is noted that the executive secretary of the campaign referred to the petition as a "testament of their sincere loyalty to the United States" and "a spontaneous movement on the part of the Territory's Americans of Japanese ancestry".

2. Dual citizens who renounce their Japanese allegiance can at any time they choose regain Japanese citizenship by going to Japan and registering for such Japanese citizenship. Before the expatriation question aroused widespread public interest, this fact was always emphasized by Japanese officials and newspapers in advocating expatriation.

3. Expatriation is almost universally opposed by the alien parents of dual citizens, they claiming that for the names of their children to be stricken from the family register is an affront to their ancestors and an act of disloyalty to Japan.

4. The present Japanese nationality law (of 1924), which liberalized the process of expatriation for Japanese born in the United States (including Hawaii), was enacted as the result of representations made by a group of Hawaiian-born Japanese who went to Japan especially for that purpose. The thought arises that if the Japanese were sincerely desirous of furthering expatriation at this time, they would follow the method they formerly employed so successfully, rather than call upon the American State Department to intervene with the Japanese government in their behalf. The fact that they chose the latter method, surrounding the campaign with a

CONFIDENTIAL

-4-

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL

fuefure of publicity, gives rise to the belief that these behind the present movement are deliberately drawing a herring across the trail in the attempt to portray the Japanese dual citizens of Hawaii as the unwilling possessors of Japanese citizenship. The political implications of such a move are obvious, especially at this time when it appears possible that the statehood issue may again be brought up in Congress shortly.

5. Apologists for the Japanese dual citizens advance as one reason for the lack of interest in expatriation the cost of completing the process. In answer to this, the local Japanese Consulate-General announced, 4 November, that neither the Japanese government nor the local Consulate makes any change for expatriation services; that the only costs involved include a fee, amounting to 25 to 75 cents U. S. Money, including postage for an extract of the family register or for the actual family record. The only additional expense is the cost of a certified Territorial birth certificate: $1 for a Board of Health certificate; $3.10 for a duplicate copy of a certificate issued by the office of the Secretary of the Territory, plus the cost of a passport-style photograph. Either type of Territorial birth certificate is acceptable in expatriation proceedings, but it is often impossible for Japanese born prior to 1904 to secure a Board of Health certificate because of deficient records, and in such cases it is necessary for the applicant to obtain the more expensive certificate issued by the Secretary of the Territory.

It frequently happens that Japanese females have racial scruples against personally attending to any business dealings, feeling that such matters should be handled by go-betweens. As a result, there has developed a group of intermediaries who, posing as specialists in expatriation clearances, exploit their female clients. It is claimed on good authority that these mercenary agents purposely surround their expatriation cases with a mass of red tape, thus apparently justifying their excessive fees.

6. The Hawaiian Japanese Civic Association, which is sponsoring the present campaign, has conducted several expatriation drives in the past, none of which met with any appreciable response; this notwithstanding the fact that the Association offered free legal advice and also provided necessary funds for these too impoverished to bear the small costs of expatriation. It is noteworthy in this connection that the various expatriation campaigns undertaken by the Hawaiian Japanese Civic Association have coincided with junctures in American-Japanese relations or with the development locally of issues which tended to bring the Japanese racial situation sharply into focus. The recent campaign had its inception basically in the questioning of Japanese candidates on their citizenship status in the recent Territorial elections. (See "Comments" for 14 October 1940).

CONFIDENTIAL

-5-

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL

7. Japanese dual citizens in the United States (and Hawaii) have had 16 years in which to renounce their Japanese allegiance. The fact that comparatively few have seen fit to do so of itself negates the supposition that they now desire to cast off their Japanese citizenship as an expression of their Americanism. In further support of the contention that the mass of Japanese dual citizens in Hawaii do not desire to renounce their Japanese allegiance are the following facts:

a. That they resort to trifling excuses for failing to expatriate.

b. That parental desires are respected much more by the Japanese than by the average American of other racial origin.

c. That certain distinct social and economic advantages accrue to the young Japanese as a result of maintaining Japanese citizenship rights, particularly if they return to Japan, either for a visit or for residence.

d. That it is only natural that they should choose to avoid any friction with their alien forebears, such as wholesale expatriation would entail, and especially when it is considered that the Japanese as a group remain apart from the other elements of the population. The dual citizens here continue to live in a strictly Japanese environment and in their own communities. These Japanese communities maintain their own banks, theaters, markets, schools (foreign language), chambers of commerce, social centers, religious affiliations, and racial organizations, all firmly cemented together by racial and religious ties. The well-known Japanese antipathy against inter-racial marriage is shared by the younger element of the Japanese and although there are some Japanese outmarriages, such are considered irregular and are negligible in their net effects.

e. That with the intensified Japanese nationalistic spirit now sweeping the alien Japanese community in Hawaii as a corollary to the renovation of Japan's internal and external relations, it is reasonable to expect that the young Japanese in Hawaii, whether expatriated or not, will be thoroughly indoctrinated with this new Japanese.

CONFIDENTIAL

-6-

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.97)
f. The young Japanese secretly share with their alien parents the enthusiasm for and belief in Japan's mission in East Asia, and are otherwise at variance with most of the other elements of the population in sympathizing with the Axis' cause in the European war.

16 A G O
JAN 2 1941
Received

For the Commanding General:

CARL GROSSE
Major, AG-Res.,
Assistant Adjutant General.

-7-
