894.1221 Public Health. Hospitals. Hospital Service., Vital Statistics., Japan, Birth., September 24, 1945 - July 22, 1946 (File 1529)
ID: 894.1221-1529   Pages: 44   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.1221-public-health-hospitals-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
Sept.24.
General Dou las acArthur,
Tokyo,Jap an.
Dear General MacArthur:
ir th control in Japan is the o ly certain
way to
a against o ther v r ilitorists nd politicians think
894.1221/9-2445
wars can u. wopped by military me ns or 1  s,but oconomists,
sociologis d psychologists and HIShORY prove that wars are
nssally due  to some actl need for expansion due to
popale tion pressure.
As much as we abhor the Jap psychology, we
know from ethnolosists und anthropelogists that if a Jap baby were
taken the e cond 1s me  orn and reared as our babies are, it would
be no air terent Iron an other ba y. Japhn has too many people for
1tS eCOnOmY.WHY DON T YOU T CH BIR H CONTROL IN JAP T?
You may pass all the laws, wreck the ap
industry, and keup e per anent arrry in Japan, but whe thor a han io
a Jap, or an Americ n,when he geto hun ry he fights or dios. ho real
cause o" Japan's oin to r ws no hereditary me nness,but to ot
mor food. ow, 1f there had been 50, 000, 000 japs on the hame 1slande
Ins to a of 100, 000, 000,ai1 would havo had plenty of food.
Look at pre-war Holland,no poverty,no
gre t we 1 sh, but a happy mu sion.llolland, ne big er then a xus county,
had 60 birth control stutions.Louk at the mil ions vho starve in China
S
and Indin--do you suppose a kind God approves the religious bigots who
oppose birth control, whil e the ignor nt, vicious bring un anted
7
children into th world to go tirough li e hungry and ignorant?
The upper strata of soci ty prcai pruc tise birth control, while m
lower s tra ta don't have the knowled  e, nor the oney, therefore,
civilization is attacked fron above and elow--too few
are born to the bet ser classusy too yany to the lover olesses.
Birt h control infor ation is the answer. Te ch the Japs
birth control and m ke them rogula te the size of their
families, and he thrt of war can be uch better controlled
than by poli tics unl rmis.You ore a hero, Goneral. and doing
a great job--do a brave, scholarl job,by t chins the Japa
to remul te the size of their fumllies.
Yow s truly,
Paul T.Vickers,I .,
McP.llen, Texas Chamber of
Cornerce.

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.94)
161
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
OFFICE, ASSISTANT SECRETARY
WASHINGTON, D. C.
10 May 1949
Mr. W. Walton Butterworth
Director for Far Eastern Affairs
Department of State
Washington 25, D. C.
Dear Mr. Butterworth:
Enclosed is a copy of the report, "A Population Policy
for Japan", submitted to us by Mr. Warren S. Thompson, the
Files
population expert of Miami University. I was quite in-
catral
894.1221/5-1049
terested in it and felt that you might also like to read
Document
it.
Sincerely,
681+
lust.
ROBERT R. WEST
Deputy to
Assistant Secretary of the Army
Encl
Report
DOR
CS/H
Rov
Cat_

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.79)
wns o:
sou muy remember  sucy entitled "s :oelation
olloy for J. n", repvred by "r. arren . Thowpeom
ol Laas uriiversity, or wnio! you ware kind emoegh to
u  lt ay.
member of my staff leter
brotr to r. Tnuw son inroralas rim of the latoreet
wit wnlas. ne ad rrna the study nd rrquoeting bis
71
rur v on et in cot. . hompn  rly
veews to me or wonsl.  raulr lteset sne I thiink you
lil, L tl.e acloeel oo  worth re dinc.
1i.cerrly youre,
2
Ilonuttorworth
liector for ur ar fre
ure:
ry of lette iro:
r. Tho.
r. ort ost,
eaty to  melst nt eoretary
or the rmy,
opartment of the -ray.
FE:NA: RAFesrey:db
7/22/49

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.86)
NIAMI UNIVBRSITY
OXPORD, ONIO
Jely 1, 1000
np. nobort n. rearey
Usvleion er nertheast xsia. raire
Dopartmont of "tate
Washinaton, . i.
:ear r. .erey
here san, of oourse, be no nsauriiee thet the sreat
majerity  f t: e Ja meze vill practiee birth control efreetavely
even ir tle knowledte of olrth control le spread rapsdly and
the a li noes fer ite preetice mre made freely avellable. tme
nlstory of the nevelorment of irth control in the xess wemld
quite i. tu:, l:y lexd ane to ocnelude th.it it le likely to o
meverrl ceeiex, perhspe thren so rive, barere birsh eomtsel
would be prretloed on x sonle murficlontly breed to reemee
the ausolute incre se slgnirlcantly celow th't whieh prevalled
befere the war. I  a inelined to thie vlew and se expreesee
alr in y ook ln    e  (p
in l94c, but sot: leted before VJ ay. it the presemt sime,
owever, I am dleveeed to modiry th't vlex somewhet. The reasems
wiler lieve lod me to modlfy it are  follows:
1. la he eut whon eople begen to learn sbout the posst-
billbies er virth control their ueath rates wore wsill
frirly  lgh. -or exnmple, in lo , even after airem
cnntrol had m: ce ounsider ble :rosress in she Unised
-tites, cur ce:t: rate vas in the noighoorhood of 19
or 1s. it 1- now about l0-ll se you know.  doalime
of c-s  oints in the birtn rate acsompamled ay a llke
dealine in the do Sn rrte would make no alfrorenee
In the maturs1 inorease. in fect, this às sabetamtsally
whet nepoened in moct ratera lnnde when birth eemtrel
begen to have an eireot on the hirt' rrto.
Lest year the deatr rate in Juin Dun wen orought doum
te am rosimately 12 frem 17-18 the preeedias year (am
unparslleled sehlevemeat), and I ahould net be the least
surprised ir it dropped te wbout l1 during the darreet
year. This mesns th:t a cemparrtively smell redaessem
In the erede death rate Ie te be expeeted in Japam la
the ruture. Coneeneently, any signifieemt deeline in

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.83)
-2
the birth rote frou now ea Lo Itkety te to oooempented
by an equally slgalzloaat del ine ln the rate ef matural
laere ee. The lmereace 1: mbeelute moabere wall, of
oeuree, remela large fer some sime unless there le à
very preolpitoue deeline in tne birth rate. Is mse
12koly to hanron:
) r r me I know, no other couatry while is ssill had
e relntively high birti. rite (the birsn rate lm Japem
v (rozimtely s4 in lwea), mloo mnd a well aoveloped
ut?1o ben th sorviee wltn eoasere frem whien the
rnowlecce or birtn control might be eprend qeite
r  lal, to rretleslly ell parte et ite ponulasion.
t tin time I lere Jar'n shere were ever 700 se-ealled
locel nezltl sensere in eperation, nnd there were n
acdition a number or emaller comtere wlen were mosmally
corins Into eontcat with many thomeamds es Japemese
cay o ny. the ertabllshmont of famlly eliniee (birtn
control clinies) i these neclt: conters mighs vers woll
sprenc the knowleree or etseetive birth somtrel preetlees
througrout jn an far more re icly thrn owor berpomed
2n nypaterr ocurtri.
wout if pereent os 1l the birtlis in Jap are atseaded
In the home by widrives. o one kiown vsit the attitade
o1 tn micwives toloras cirtn enntrol -lll , 
trhe very fev I nroned to t lk to not only meemed la
fivor ot it trumselvee, rut vrre very voeitive in thots
oplrlos. that the Ja: unesr furm women und laborer'e xivee
dic .ot want the 1 re nusber of oirthe they sre mow
havine. I regret very meer thisl I wes so lnte eatehing
on to the siynlrlewnoe of thene midwivee in the pepe-
laticn alturtlon in Jsran that i coula not follow up
t:le leac st i ahould hove liked to.
ine.• ls a very lively pmblic interrst in Japan in all
mattero regarcing pe ul tion and its relrtlen te the
-conony. it a peure to be pre emt in all al aasee of
the re:eltion end ell tyree er mowapar ers, weeklles,
mc Jourmale ere partielputine L unis ulsoussion.
• an example, the lart veek I w e in Japun I was
sked to write bries intertmotery artseles for saree
wesen's mar asinis whieh were said te have a eoablmed
elroulatlem ef 2,000,00n ame te be peed ln at least
twiee thet many hemes. the artlel-s whleh I was saked
te write were te appenr in eeissens whlen were deveted
ipimaraly, eae I belleve ezelusively, te the diecsessen

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.82)
-3
JInee ny rotum I have reeelved a nember ef prees
alippinge whieh lend me to thrink that the whele matsee
ef porwlntion control ls teing diseusced more opeaty
in Japan todey then hes ever hanroned oleowbere. 
a dition, I anderetund th:t the radio nad moving
PLotur' - nre bey lnaime to be ueea to infore the dapenese
neole net enly rerrr in. b: rth control, bet alee
reg rciny the coor  1. dirricultl-n cort in to arien
Iro tro re1 lcr et in numwere.iurly, the
relrn lty ed th
lve in vor :t solrol the mpom
melotrortbe.
o u or ther cv cornt coe of ut orlty by 
ry inrortntnt.
I nn fuit sre th t wht i rsve eaiu he  does not oomssa
proof tt I the nonil) uo t1rtn atrol fart nogh m
praotice it wirectlvely eouu to reduce re  irth rute rapadly
witr.iu tl.e urst in yo re, cos a i reétetlns thet thie will
n.wil o co , rower, to ny th I wouln 
be eur riao ir the irtr r te in  n sere to full more rapialy
witnie. the nest rover l yr're thitn it cic at any tiee in y
woster coutr. ne. arr, of cour, mny rovion to do mode.
for ex le, ls renler csi entirel, n nest in his eecepteme
of irt coitrol . vitl f ctor in Jnoe co ultlon poliegy
are the erz; ere rno raclo  ivin. J  ene lo ul tloa problome
the .ttentl, the, re verely tro ure trey thinx it will ploase
the peric ns or crr thr, trul, oonvinoed of the basle romitlem
or po ul : lo. numbere in al their conomie proolome: ave the
uxj al r.letp honestly eeen the error or their way and arn they
rosdy i: un ertake the itJustmrnt of po: ul tlon to resourees
rather thin to rel; uron tho e) muslon o1 re ouroes (conouest)
to ewre :or, r lily rovin, :o ul tio.: co nos crotend to
kmow thr newere to there aueetions ana i co tainly do not know
the meny ir ctlola) nc rersolizl dirrioultlre which way be
moowntered in the efiorte to orin, own the sveruge size of the
Japmnrne family. ut I still t inn 1l rocgltle thit the deelime
Im the Jn nere tirti rrte mny be ao rarid th t it will eurorlee
moarly tll of us who have heen thintint. c: ast-rn experienee
as a Nuide to what mluhe rorren in Jer n.  le woulo be evem
more rrobetle if onme ver, alrle ne er entive met od of bir
somtrol were diseevered.  or exmeple, reanntly two Jepamese
dootere wer rmoted In one er the lesdlnt  eru, es as bavlms
Lajeeted a sex hormome iato the bloed of , womn wiie rendered
her incoreble of conceptlen for three or four wonths. I tried
to find out more sbout trle ve? er, but thue far have been
abe to do so.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.78)
In soaneetlen vith your statemens that the peorer elesses
de met praetlee blrth sentrel to the eztens of the move fortanese
élasses, I wenle like to make the ebeervasson smas the fuallasses
for the aprend of birsn ontrel kmowlodge in Jann are mow m
thit ir they are weed efteetively t ie knewled e vill reach
the J n se foor in relatively mmon snorter time Lama ss revemed
the sorer ol sre, In our own no ulxtlon. I woulu alee obeove
th.t l le rst the seculsition or birt' contrel knowledge seme
to be reducini the nifreremee betveen the slze of the famlly
ocone the wll-to-do "nd th oor.
It le tn De to: tht some or the aeneles in the eoupte.
probr, tt utle o: inion (rou: in i and will wdy the
ritlu af.lrent cl ne or J ne towrde the limite
tlon  1 1i cr fuzlllee. uen ptur les orould ive us  moh
better 1: :or juir iry ot roricly tre linltitlon or fomlliee
willntre ftreo ultion.
t. i ve an 1  1 it y  io I co not wrnt 
lo v,. . lil ny th t in xy jucgmrnt J : in alre,dy ham o po uo
litio.ct t:lce r 1. ree " ate cn rovide  tood livine for
in lie. uri. Ipl nit n th i I trinr they ro bommo to effor
fr wore ti  t reeent too use of thie over-ropulstion evom
if the ure to e o further inore a rhatever, und the  wall
be surtlhier inor . S y ucement, J l. will feee s vory
severe cri:la--one vion wa load to wuc: lnternel imoraer d
severr rni if, n eu, our unlcy to her eo nomy lo
r ther sue enly vitin raw. vnd sle 1. forced to rely more lurgely
on rrr o. r urarp. Junt .t the lltlo.l oonnenuenoee or
e  i. (: un,r. col,  leenio, etc. wlll be, no one
on trll, ut: ve lo been avlcee t  ln not oneal
ronre i   feineiin thmlly nd
neleoroen 1unnce ro whicl. it p c
be tre i' te re eriiit ry rs tl ns re aede rt home
ind tr le core are eut finl tiy in control of the nvenure of
publlolty. I do not ms tr te either cynlorl or esolmietio.
but I n see o tooc comlu :ro a refun I t- frce faots.
.cr8ly,
/orrenooon
n

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.87)
A Population Pettey fer Jagen
I. The faste an whlah I bave wy Jaiament thut Japen shedd hame a Gesiakte
and aveved population pelsey are se vell keevn by Cesmpatien effselale thet ss
may seen preeumptioue in me even to sketeh thom out brlefly. I shall de ee.
hewever, in order to give umity to the ontire statement I wish to lesve with the
Chief of the Sestion to which I an attached. The most impertent fasts as I see
shem aes
a. Japan hne a very dense populntion in torms of pereems per squase
mile of cultivated land-nbout 3.840 por square mile, coumting the aren of deuble
F
三
esopped laxd twiee. This is almost 4 1/3 persons per acre. The tilled asee
eannot oe creatly extended und much axtension ar there may be will be largely
8
at tho epenne of the forost :ron on lan which is subfect to sosioum aresiem d
5
is of rolatively lov fortility.
10
2
(1) The incranse of food production throuth the use of mere
fortiliser. better tillyro, bettur disease nd inwoct control, and the develepmeme
7
of botter lant mrietios vill ninoot cort inly  considerablo but mah of it
1049
will bo in crops llke potatoos (Iriol an' sweot) subject to somedat sreater
variation in production than the staple (ruine and which also create stosage
and utilisntion problom far moro diffioult than for the grmins. Their sreater
use also creates cortain important dietary problems. An for no crm noew be somm.
Japan must contimme to import  piemiricant proportion of her feed--the prepertiem
as any siven time depending lasgely upan the population crewth rund the sise of
the crop as that sime.
b. Japan hee emly a few of the essential simesals in meffiedent
abundanse to peemit of unhindered industrial produstion. Coal, wime and sudpieme
are the chies sinenale belengins in this eategory and even vith segurd te then
eertain qualiflestione mast be made beosnse of the peer quality of some of the

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.90)
8
eree aad tho dirrlenltles of misins trin nnd lecn sones. Meet etheer mlessnße
are in short supply and ganerally of inserier quality. This memme thee Japem
mmst rely hesvily on imperte of mny nineraln, the most Lupertant of whick is
probably iron ose. if ahe is to develon an efriaiont and varied industrial pee
auxstion. An in the onse of food tho sizo of the easentinl imperts at my siven
tino wi:1 depend chiefly on the ponalatlon gro:th altheuth ang sise ia the lovel
of livin: vuld also inerenso the need for ninerml imports nmd for imposts of
othor row materials lie cotton. futo, wool. mubber and a large vmriety of lesser
importance lut sti!! quito escentirl vhiah J pnn docs not preduce o pretmees
only in emall aounta un often at oxortitant expendituro of laber.
C. A considoruble proportion of Japanese indnstry was destroged during
the war and oven wiero it oscaped destruction much of its equipment is mew is
bad condition so tlunt lamro c ital ox xenlitures wi!l be required mesely to restese
thom t their rowmr ststus. But this is not enouh ns thore has beem mas
technologlan! prorrese in to Unitad statee and urope durin: and aince the war
whiah must to inoorpor tod into J xnose plante if thay are to corpote with these
of other countrioo in vorld ricete. Tho major part of this capita! mmct come
fron abrond, chiefly from tho United States, i' recovery is to be fairly sephl.
Foreign loans for the restoration of Jianneso inhustry, and the same holds for
Japameso shipping, will not be forthoomin: in adequnte amounte until is is
reasomably eertain that a profitable masket can bo found for she produste. These
is listle evidenee ns yet thnt such a masket is develeping rapidly either at home
or abroad. The rehabilitation of Japanese industry and shipping is likely to be
slow and subject to mary setbecks. Turthermore, the fast that Japemese industay
mast develep in sueh a vey as to render her militarily impetent for years to some
hes made it neeceeary to shange in a very fundamental way the intustrial strosture

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.85)
8
of Japne. he problon of develenine a national Lndustrial stresture wtieh emmse
be quickly converted to war protuctlon nad yot one uhich is enpable of insvenetns
the produetion of the thins the people need to e neeured of a bester level of
liviy and t export loare qunntitice of mny ty oo of coode is nev in hmm
exwrience. It is cortai: to involve mmah trinl and osror and, thesesese. to
onume serious deinga in cottin. Jaxn umin on  sowxd econoade foeting.
ince ts otfvoulationy en time pende on the
mlation bot con tho irt mto cu the onth ato it is atter of msh impesrtamme
frr to  nose coonar to osti:rto o carofuilly us poeolblo the movemente of
thene t  tes over tho nort fou yos. Lou aorionee with the t of pope
Intion date lauls » to vur to follovin conoral statonente rooarding the
rouable novment of irth tos an donth ratoe in Yacn durine the mnd demde
un connot. of coro. ot to o-itive'y what  happoen in the future. peotally
ror iy e birth mto. bt v o kno o to foroor at the eeral chareter
of thois clv:oo.
(1) he ir te of Yxn in consequance of the roatrlatlem 
the poldiere.  to  losour cxtont of tie Jpnoso livins abroed. moved to a
high level in 1947 and fol: off only c littlo urin 1918. 1t is almost certale
to fall off considorably moro in tho next tuc or throe yonra. Thuoreafter. it is
likoly to ec'ine nore alosly for soe yere unloss positive meneree are unde
tekon vhic: re calculatod to luaston ito roluo lon. Sinoo there is no preoedent
in exparience to indicate how rapidly aotive eduontion in the neod to reduce the
alre of the fanily can be opoctod to shav results ono cannot bo positive of emstly
what to expest. The opinion of the writer is tixit the nomma! sprend of the prmetiee
of fanily liritation can bo cre tl: hastened by active effort to this end and that
Janan is ready to move vapidly in this direction.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.82)
4
(2) In 194s the irti: mte ws appeedmately 33.8 pee 10000 
the popul::tion. If no effort were xie tc luator Its desline, it weuld be veay
surprisi:v. 1f it foll as muah a 16 pointsto 34 per 1.000in the cousee a te
next olht years. Tho writor does not kmow of y recedent whien would make
it reasonchlo tossume such :. coclino undor a Iniesos frire poliey. It is quite
poasib'c. ovever. that mmch : dooline or n ovan froctor one mht take leee
in activ a forts vore mio i tin iroctlon. nt ovon soedar tint the birth
muitc wro to detve 1o pints i cltt yesre t population woul huve crowm to
betunillion  tho on of   would sill bo inresins o 
1.1 u'lion or ra t tvt ti:.
()to in boon Lne lovy for co
o Loforo 1 t tro Little ce n it u tho yee 193o40 whe
it avorreo bort 17por 1. 0o. !nce te r tw mucceer of the vblle health
el Socion in a in ue the at ate as boen henamen1. he
p rolininar fir ro for the donth ite in 194n is 10.0 per 1. 00 which is comsidemmbly
lower the voul ve een cxpectd y dorophr stuyins trondo in Jappn
bofore the  en the assw ion tt healthr le roceed in ue! the mame
er here an it di in the nite tates. 1lo0. Horeoer. the death ate
will probally cecline ovn a little fiuthor ithin tix noxt two or three years.
(4) The disferonce between the irth mto w the centh rete
in 1ms (reliminary figures) indicatos robablo matuml crouth of ahout 1.8
per 1.000-tre hishest rate ovor attnine! in  pan--nd a namerical inarense of
about I /4 llione. The total po xulation of Jn in at tihe boginmine of 1949 
slightl: over 81 million. Tho mato of increeso in Japen like the pestwer mate
in th it Se  a mber of wropon countrios h en ally high
becmmen of conditiono arising out of tu wer and al:ost cortrinly will fall rather

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.79)
5
raplay for to or throe years, possibly begirmine in 19. s the árth mate
demines (soo above). Rut as :lroudy notod, Japan's population srosth dsine e
next fow yenre vi!l be larco wnd mxy woll bo ovon Larcor tin siven above if the
death t oen still lower  it vell may.
. a no: cono to tin congiiorution of nttore which contain a Imoger
of
ol pant/unoert inty tin do ty vene ta of births nd deethe. Te pare whdch
foroi tr lo mst l i ts oconarde if f n is o critio tivt it mt
 discuoe  brietrloo. temem ploture s soeio the
Iio   l to: or troo laln to  noth
 salol so reml love f vivr va ror tcoplote.
(2)noit  mr us po
 for1lonco.not ople. but pept oul th
e.all tt oo poap ahould not booth
a ctrin coter r . l x ut  n mc t co mer o the
nited Finalon t on oho s to l in tho 1oth Contery. Ih to
sut fort brle. i mansom lo some o ct verious coust en tho abali
   t moort horLoaulatientiprovin lovel of iving 
foro&m tulo.
(2) hn hitl on  on hor t r  
ramfacturer en trexter elw hnd no serious corpetitor in nost fiolds of mnnfectured
gooda. If ono wantod to bulld  ilways. or o ostabiish toxtile ills, or to b
costons :! voolenw, or to onjoy the maturl products of other lands, or to ship
goods mbroa', or to somure  y typos f inournco, or to transfor funds from
country to country, or to crry on my other businsss tmmsnotions abrund, one had
Uttle ahoice but to de I vith the United Xingion xd t use hor frailitien for
foraim trade. This condition lasted Wrouuhout mah of tho loth Centwry.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.82)
6
(3) Thás hish degee  monopaly in providinc many tpee of
mumfactures and in cargin on trade xule it possiblo for tho Uaited Xingien t
sell mmnfactures coods and businosn scrvicos at a prico vory hich as eompase
with thu rices of the foodatuffe cd rw matericls which the taited kingdom
noued ot: for home consuption cx for lor intustries. Docause of the lamge
rofits tins obtaind. thare ws . rupie cccu milatian of capital in the hands of
the loto rmfat rers. truleru a lu ors. A sinific nt proportion of this
apitai w cv. ilalc for inveet r in foroi conntrieo nd wus thw instruntel
in crastine a L dad for o orto s mchiny. rilvy aqulpnt and 
uther llo oi cnil moodo. All tidn w in claition to lo ar orte of
compion os   toxtil.. r  o od in
dail use. Hovovo. te  t price fxnf ctod ode and
bugine sorvicos c xrod t th o.   r ori ln could not b
intaina ilarinit  the fco   comptition for foron tde n
at rooont ll ountrio luvo   utivoly more for food and  toriale
than ti nit o aid hl  o t lt. con.
(4) ody  t t to ooatii horgcl in a world o
in which cametition will e iercer tin ove bofore ax in which thare is 
nared raudice aint y ti Jaoeo.  J p's position  a fore
trader is fur wore diffioult un. thorefure. fi uro procnrious tirn tat of the
United Iiugion fron 1035 to 1900. let us ay. Ts fundananta! difforenco botweem
Jupan us a forelin trader in the i ilo of the Otl: Contury fron the United Kingtem
in the Loth Cantury exphaslzes the noed for Japen to conoentrate on aoods thich
contain a largo postion of the type of labor t which tho Jupanese are mest prefieleme
and which is rolatively cheap.
(5) The real question iss Can Japan epert mourh coods of the

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.90)
9
hinls in vhese preduetien she ean compete vith ethes eoumtsies to poovide heseels
with the foed nnd row materirle she mast impert in eoder to livet Certaksty thée
queetion ennnot be enmvered categorieally but it nay be helpful to evaluate the
prospests for a fer of the itons vhich night enter lasgely into Japemese expests.
(a) silk vas the nost impertant of all exporte in peowmr
years. mut beonuse it is renermlly recormised that silk has lest its lasgest
mrewar marcotsilk for stookinrs and socks in the United Stateemandaees met
soom likely to rogain thin nnskct ond since no other country or eroup of couttries
seems likely to tako the nlace of the Unitod Staten as impertes it my be raled
out ns a factor of much inportance in Japan's future foreien trade.
(b) Certain tymes of corrice my find forelen markete in
a mmber of countrics iut thoy cre unfortunatelx the lwary types of goede whick
are not used largely by tho common veople of Asis. or of ny country. hense, they
cro not likely tobe exportod in quantities sufficient to buy any lamge mmems 
food nd row atorialn.
(c) Cotton and rmyon yerno ndgpode may agmin become impertant.
Dut here it ust be roperiborod that thore is tean competitlon alrendy and as far
as India and China develop thoir om cotton indnstries, which India in alreedy
doing and China is andous to do, Jrpan wi!l have sti!l losener competitiom in
sel'ing cheep tertiles to Asin. Both Indin and Chin: on and do maiee most of
their on cotton while Jan cmst inport a!! she uses. These coumtries both have
even aheaper labor thon Jrpan. Further.ore, for sone yeers it is highly imprebable
that Chiney and quite pesaibly India aleo, will have mush they can trade for the
considerable qanntities of cottons nnd the other tyves of consemptien goods wtich
Jmpan might supply. The wholo Asiatic market is bedly dierupted and is reeoverine
12y.
(d) If Japan undertaiken to expert the better arndes of esttem

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.86)
8
seeds and reyome end siliks, then she facos keen sopetitsos frem other espestemeet
expertere mnd cn sap but  linited asket. The asticot for all mmeer of Iwmy
soods will rowsin sel! ao con xred with shot for staplee. Is mgon the field
would seen to be noro pronisin sinco it is uito probable that Jepen could poovide
nost of the pw materirls neodod for ito roduction. But at proment the pregress
in amfactusin ryon in the Unitod t tos and me mropeon countries hae 
for outotri ed vork in Jv thyt te vouar epnone rayon cannt omte w
thone naser fabrlce. Jopnose mills vi lay to bo Largoly reommndsm and bette
con'rol :ot ois cyplled bofore they cn becono sorioun cometitore in the world
yon  et. No doubt Jrn cn cone bad: in yon to  le nt. but 
will taizo both tine rx? nonog.
() y tyn of pod much  Light harr. blel.
rubber oodo. toyo. loquer,  y other kinds of light coode reguiring a
high roportion cf henl labor can bo oorte  J xn. but the very mmemtsen
of those coods n kos one wondor whother tho wmounts of then wi!l. in the mems
future. onablo Joan to moet hor noedn for food x r mterials.
(f) Another line o oroducto on vhich the Jnose appes
t. bo countin henvily is mchinery ad other canitc? coods. In thin conmestiom
it must not be forgotten th't if tho countrioo of Aci: de cot to the point, withs
r. docade or tvo, whoro tiay aro in a posltion to bay rolntively Large quantities
of copital goods to build sailvavo and ahips xl factories, it will only be
bocause they have beon chle to borrow largoly fron cbrond sinoe they cannot preduee
it at home. Thoro is only one lcrye vource of cepita! in sight at preeent--the
United States. If we do mite lasro lonne to India. or China, or the Philippimes.
or to any other country will we lasve the borrowers free to buy capitel coods
wherever they vish? Pereonally I doubt it. The sse will be tree of other lenders.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.89)
9
They will dennnd that the lome they make be spent in their coumtries. It hes
alwaye been so to a eonsiderable extent, and there is no good reassn to epest an
sudden and simmificant ahonre in this attitade.
3. Finally, we should not overlook thc foct tiu't the strong: trend tounsde
mutarchy which set in curins the interwer  ariod ahows no siems of hnving abatel.
Avoryuhoro. all industri 1ly bodivard countrion are mi:ine plans to indmstrialise
as apidly ns voasible co that t'o:  il! not be pendont on the vrearles of fosel
trade. This novemont wil! cortain' rite the lifo of the "wortahop" nation stemflly
nore precarioue. lore  vre the oconoy of a ch a nation beconee the p a
overy oliticn! ahift  vc!) ao ovor ocononic chift which tniee plase in the
world. haus oven if Jm n vore for  tine t cahiove e forelen trade lurge momgh
to onnbln hor to buy hor noodod food mud ra ntoril. it is by no meame ertale
thet slic could lone contimue to do so.
3. I bolieve that althouth the ahove considorotirne do not pm that Japem
cannot export anout pods to by food nd ra mitorinle for a erovine populatiem.
they nevertheloso are of mmah veirit tivt they thirow the burdon of preof on these
who nemme that thio can o done.
4. sinee the sumort of ny given nizo of pomulation copends ultimstely
the rescurees availablo to it as noted above and since I believe it is cenesally
agreod thst Japan's resourees, both mericultural (inalndin fovests snd fiaheries)
and minernl are linited and that even full devlopment of water pever will met
provide an mbondanee of pover. tho mub of tho population question in Japan besemse
her abllity to inorense her resouroos. The placo of foreien trode in any pregem
has been disoussed briefly, but it will bo well also to roview the other ways is
whdeh the solation of pepulation to rosouross might bo chnneed if we wound get a
elear view of the netunl situstion whieh the Japanese fase.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.86)
20
8. There are other wayn in which a more favornble rolntion between pepuletses
and seeomees my be broutit about axd unti1 nnd unlees this is done. the level
of livine is bound to decline in a rn in: popalation lrondy presaing heevily 
its resouroes.
. The Inarmane af Aailabia Bemcurmn
(1) A conora! improvement in techvolors dhiah is conemmlly theughs
of ns inarensed efficioncy in production, not only affects emfacturing and
rioultur toohniquos, lut alao affocts the efficioncy of the moduation f
r matori lo d ti r mation of thoce ntorials for manmfaoturims. Ths
m mterinln which vere econonic:ily uwusble uidor tin techniquen avallable
at one tine my becoro uanblo if toc'niquee irmrovo mufficiently. As techmlques
Improve n! it talion less Labor to rome those rterials than it formerly did.
they cn  vaed vhero fororly thv could not. or thoy cin be produoed with leee
Labor.
(2) Rosoureos y o incronscd iy the cquiromont of now lande.
In the world of tody this lnoot cortrinly n nn wer nd robably Vorl ar.
In tin thi ny chan. ut theo is no immediato rognoct of chunee in this
roenrd.
D. ion
(1) The relation but eon onulntion e rosourons mrht be
aluanged f vorably by largo very laree ondgration. If nore peonlo were moved
out of n country than woro added to its vopmlntion by the oxcess of birthe oer
deaths. this could hmpen. providiv: thore were no imirration.
(3) This relatin of rosouroes nd oulation my also be
aunged by reducin, or raising the irth rates nd death ratee. Obviomsly. s
leng ae the birth wate exseeds the death rate populction will crew and. other

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.89)
2
eonditlome rennining unchrged, the rolution of rosouroes to population will tesmme
less favozable in all countrios in vhich: o alation is alreriy doanse. A death
rote hither the the ath mate vhic n by no moans boon an unoo vt i
hauman history would prohco tho oposito offeot.
(n) h ollcie intonic to incrense te affiieney of
production. those re or ed to in (la) hovo, ro nut onosally thought of no
population oliclos u in fact o sollon intonded to  ffect te relation f
rescuroes  omilation. mut tn f ct thy oton do ve vury alrmirioant sfests
on ponilation rowth and hence chranvre the roletions between mumbers of peeple
and the rescurces  vailable for thoir use. In nctual p ctice the ceneml paller
of incrensin: rochiction is alnost cortrin to encourms pomlation growth mes
a poople whore the birth ato is under ?ittle control becnnse the first smssseess
of suah : olicy (incrensin  ronuction) eneourrvre a reduction in the death mate
(Malthus). It is vell ontabliahe! in tho Wost, nn? thoro is avidenoe that it
was becinmine in Jnan, that the birth rate only ba ins to cocline ns the level
of livine larins to rise and wonlo cono to fool that thny can lire botter and
cive their childrm botter omportunitios only if they havo smnller familiee. I
is probably the desire to live botter nd have moru opmortumitics for ane's
children rather than merely a hish level of livin? tit lecds to the limitatios
of families. Until poonle bocome swmre of the posnibility of family linitation
and actually bagin to reduce thoir birt! rate, any increase in produstivity is
lampely abeorbed in supporting nare people rather than in supperting those living
at e higher lovel. In this way whnt ampeare to be . lalamaz faim palsey often
becomee im effect a poliey for insrensing pepulation. This vould mot be the
ease, hovever, whero the level of livin? was already ralntively high and the birth
sate vas largoly controlled.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.85)
8
(b) I will srg nothine heve regarting the megatremene of
addisional rosowroes throuch wr (b(?) adove). This is the situntien everyone
hopes oan be avolded. it ve shon'd not close our ages to the fest that the
sensoity of resonroos has beon waod nd probnbly vill amin be used by the palitseml
military lo dero of oxandins. nomulntions no  potont arrwent for aoreseien.
It is truo that rf ression has not ai: off in rocent deondes, bnt this does not
noan that it vil? not camin be tried and pertainly the more mmre a people ie of
ita overty in rosources while other peon'ce enjoy nore, the emsier it can be
rousedtportresnion.
(c) That is true of incronsod roduction no en mooumemms
of poynl tion inoronso in croum :it lo lov Is of livin whiet cro larrely
trmaitionl. oo mn to bn tre lso of e iton (tom b(1) above). It in a
cenempolicy ncou in o mulc ion roth. Cbviouely in a large popaletion
liko that of Ja an with an inorease of ovor million ond one-hlf mally.
oniaration must tolro lace on trlr voot soIo n for a momber of yeare in
order morely to rintain nonlation nt trion lvel. letualy there ave
Deen ver fo crsce In nodorm i no in vhich ondrrntion soome to heve movided
any poreo tible inmroverant in the lovel of livin in the contry of origin and
oven whore this arone to hvo hamened it cannet bo roved.
(a) In the comt of destintion the imierante generally
have mic  the sane birth mte or cven a hicher birt: mte than they have been
aocustoned to t hono. Since coononic conditim  conerally aier there
(the bolief that this wil! be so is the renson for anigrtion). the death ate
is redueed and population gro noro rmpid!y than in the home comtry. This is
probebly not a cerious mattor for sox yeure in nost prons of enigratien beemmse
of the low mtio of populntion to resources, but it might becone serlous very seem

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.81)
23
as smst a movement vese to take place on a lasre soclo. e... a mvement ef
mallsene of Indians to Hndrascar or the Enst Corst of Afrien, or of Japansse
to Bosmeo, or of Chineee to Mev uiner.
(a) Than tho tvo noaures (inerensed production and atlem)
vhien are most commonly advocatod to coro for inoronced mmbera nre quite lieely
to encounge pomu tion rowth under the coniiti wvhich provall in Japan at preseme
and shelr not ofect oor sovor? yours ny ho t, prolon at ponsibly ven to
Intomalf the v haatahis the vore cmooted to rolieve. Thie is mrtioulart
likety to he tho cre vo omlation renmure is clredy rent. here the mmbem
Involved re larre o whoro tho Iovo? af livin is relatimly lor es in Japon
chind Iin.
(r) tihmdncioxlation eore noted
ahove, viho mevormn th ls corlly rod
ns a omlation volis no n vocay nn no nt ttaind the statuo of antise
roapocty in wtere.obl bo e it ne coro to o a o
the ccononic. soct and rolitms at itx'es n rditione vhich wve revalled
hithorto. hut it ls. in cason mere ovulntion roo ure is somro. the onty
polle which in cnl aulated to inoure a er  nent docont n viains lovel of livim
to on entiro pooolo.
() la   omn. no . n  d
In mombere, whichover mey he tho ond dostred, an e rovht bout in two wages
(1) by mleine tho desth rato unti? it o vals nr oceedn the birth rate. cad (2)
by redueiv thn birth mto.
(h) The writer knowe of no one who to'ey ndvocatee the
minine of the donth mte ns a means of pomletion control. It my wo!l come to
pass, hovever, thet the failure to retnee the trth rate whore populat ion preeture

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.86)
Ss alseady considerable vill automstionlly locd to an increase in the death sate.
Rature hes opt mon's mmbere vithin the linits of his wubeistenee fron time
Lomenorial iw n hich death mto, nd it is the nornn which eetually opesmtes
tody 1 lro rt of ty rld'o oxultion. t bocne misine the death
mte wi l not bo soriouoly considoror  dolibaro poulation policy no further
rttontion bo it hore.
(1) 1) the lidit of  feots ivon bove al with the
probehiity of poducine oclatien  roe ur in lavle vhere it in sovere by
Incrave!n rocuction. n to sorious notion, it soens to the wtiter that the
moat ronsov le olic to dwoc t in ovor-no nleted Lur'o in one celouleted to
reduco a sirt rto nti! h mmbore of the poulation concorned becone manageable
within tho imits of the reoources vilablo to then
6. i brief axoosition uf hov cortain policioe mdent affoct poulation
crouth peame nocosse to ou port the conclsion tht in the cosn of Jennn it is
not mufficiont to d ? that can be soo to ruime prohuction sinoe pomaletion
prossusm lo Ireccy ro t n? mrbere re incronsi ao foat that the lamer art.
if not  l. of the incronne in rouction is li ci to bn sbnorbod meraly in the
muxport of oro peovlo. It vms loo necean ry to siow tint it in not rmcticablo
to lool: to emirtion for the rolief of Jn'a pomlation prcemre inthe nens
future since the mriere irwolvod re too Largo. the areas to vhich ederante
dcht co aro relativoly nl!. tho politionl obstaclon to oniarents nre croet if
not inoumountabl. end tw nens to cory ut men iration aro lackins.
7.Han sople will no doubt nsk why it in o. concern to the nited States and
to the world that poyulation presmire in Jen should be roduced. or to ut it
in another form, tho level of living in Jn n should bo raisod. There are tvo
anewers to this question. One looks solely to the interest crented hy our vistery

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.83)
28
over Japan and the subeequant occupation of ths country to insure that she will
mot soon again cnge in arossion. If Jan con soon become ealf-euffleteme whtle
lockine the moenn for roammon:, this en is sorved. There is. hoveves. mo
rensonab!o dout in the miy  yone h has given it thoutt that ven tée
immediate in voule more pil  ulc ttined if Jro'e popaletion
vere to conge t row toorre. ith n nme! routh vhich will mobably o
a illion i n or. rr ore.r   tx noxt cight or ten .
oven this inrecinto ain is Jeoorrtieed. In a mutoho!. thrt in the urdon of the
precodin ront.
A soce looi tolov la ht thee
pomulatn v felt ve otrovy becomoe orn votive for tho orpnolon
of the olitie  neono ie  a tin  litay ene nd timo ma
forooive
rointertnsect ofomlatlon crowth
in roducin  ronr u olation tecint e it cenmot be umed bo
ompon ionists es  talkine point t vhi u v rlike continent beomuse of the
crowin feolin tret the nition is boinv vco o mufrer unfuet hodehipe a comped
vith :orr fortunte ooolos.
8. The palicy of oncourvin the matnetien of the irth rate is the only
one which in the lone rum cn be clauod n ue for poouletion ressure. hés
does not noen, hovev r, tht  inorecco in productlon and on exansion of forelm
trade should not be encour ced in all poenbile ways. It merely moans that as leme
as population routh keops pace vith or xeods the incronse in resouroes und pre
amstion the basic scononlc situntion cit!or is not fundemental'y altored or my
even be vorsoned.
9. of ocursc, ono can no er mm now that the econoaic situation in y
country vhich vill arise in the future wi'l rarein ossentially unchenveed or beemme

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.87)
wores. A1! ene enn do Is to stuts tiy facts enrefully and inferm himsels as sty
as pessible, and then apply c mmon sonne in tsyin. to emvieege fatere develepmts
and the effests of population grorth on these dovelepmants. It is trme that m
the Vest sinee l800 increased roduction ond : better lovel of livies bave
ascommanied laxme omlntion inereeso, but for the lact half century nd lems
the restrict on of the sire f the f mily has contributed lamgely to the redmetdes
of the donth rate an the rire in the Iove? of livine even inthose countries
Lvin ous d llyl re.
10. In the Vost the preanure of ponlation on resouroes ham for a Lome
tine boen mild in con crison with that in   other erts of South and 
Asls. There e nover boen ny cerious coubt uatil uite rocantly that we  tho
Yost could bot): rolse the Love?  livir ad tthe ane time cold provide for
 lae Lucrne in mrber. wvor. s   now isin n thr
In Jrpm comitions re no norious  the diffloultior of carin for hor pop
lation seo to the writer to bo so wel? grounded in fact an to omount almost to
certainty that omuletion inoreone not on'y now stando in the way of improvemene
in the lovel of livin, but vy woll lend to  deteriortion in this lovel vem
if outside help continmes to flow in us larey  strosm as it has simce the
Ocmmpatiom. It is highly cistressing to stato to a idhole people thmt after
oureful stuty of the fests the sutlouk fer inpreverent is glesy beemmse of the
sire if thwir familiss. But it is no kiminess to then or to the wosld to gless
over the facts or to interpret then norr favorably than seoms fustifled Smthe
light of our experience. It is not sur rising that the Japanese Gevesmment
hesitates to net positively in anooureging birt!: control. It is easier to do
methins and ths ticitly sanstion the various eoononio and social pelicies almenty
in operation even theuch some of shen astunlly do eneonrrye further pepulatiom

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.81)
87
insreass and ths make deoem: livin, nore procarious. Dut it is also a hemey
respemsibility to lLowo natters as they ero whan that neentive patsey om
vory likoly. in the l1 ht of in f cte, to inarense tiv cconomie hardehip of 
porulation in the not is ru.
11. Tho vritolso vint in is convietion that re
conslcoratien chule b i to to robe ilit that if Lal fat
attitude continuen rov. oml tion ctimer to ro about ns indsomel
o.  fin f roa o latlon dw. Unler those ci
a remurgonco  oxanslonls in p: i  on'y pcastble but is probablenet
toorrow, nt in ivo os. bt veru in  tin, vhon. vith rahabilted
Lnduatry. the insbilit t wintain  ir leve of livin" with the rosousesr
beesn clorlyanifoet.npoonle re my d when thy
soo no ho e  better o ahe    o some mene to mate wes.  
onay fo ororesnd Jircon to io pen rar rdin the cdvantoeen to be
dorived fro con uost. It in tas tlnt omlation vrosmure contributen tothe
hei toninf intnm tion tonalon  c noicod aotent  of w.
If the coner vio o the simificanco of Jns ponuation situeticn xp
bove is untifix tho irodinto pr ctics! rohle bccomes me of convincinr. fir
the Jope rese Leaders px then tie peoule s  wviole thnt only throurth the contse
of popilation on thoy hope to mointain ts ir coonondo stat a to ny mothine of
improvin it. hin can proo be do bort y rovidine infometion and advi
whio vill ho?y tho Jopanese Govenren! n eople to rive at decinlone on
polley whia will contribute to the gomerm! wolfere nd anconrnging thon to dissmms
those mattore openly. Only through aorurcte knoledgo and free ciscnesion as
provided for in the now Japnnese Constitution cun donocpatic decisione be aertved
at in this very important mattor. It is probabls. hovovor, that vith the Japamese

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.76)
20
evee mere than with those pee les who iave had longer emperiemee vith the epesnttem
of demoornes, decinivo lenderahin is of the ntmost inportanee is mettine remssmmbly
quiel: cetien on   ugnt stor. Tor this reason Arerican help to Japemsse lemess
in unntin the oo I to tn no d  olntion control. and in providine tho
knowlocte con nti  to thin cont o so e to to ipor tive. mst thie does not
mean tht foily Timitatin shonle e  oroes? n umdin peonle ren if thde
vore poalb'.  ts corytion.nxthotic ca-lst n con be dven vithout
the crerine of ctryeic r or  copulion
Pin Iy. t shold be aro cloar to the pnoee tt it in hiy wmllkey
the pon Ir a he nitor ate vi contime to rovio then inderinitoly vith
tho eane ivelihood th vo rovide cinee 1n4s if the Fareneee themmele
show no intorest in ad ti t oir muaborn to thoir reneurooe: bosidos, any
indintn t o  tior inse is enod by um vhdeh re
interented in pelitic e renci n  sone f ture tie 11l certainly remlt in
the mule cerention af 1avi notone tn ion n Jn vi b froo of the
Ceomntion x 1lo tord t oe it moro soro in tuture yer.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.89)
DIVN
894.1221/6-2049
NORTHEAST
AFPAIRS
United States Politioal Advia
for Japan
MO'D
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JUN 28
No. 400
Tokyo, June 20, 1949.
ACTION
UNCLASSIFIED
73
no actin
INFO
NA
DCR
guen
POS
UNA
Subject: Japanese Population Problem.
OLI
With reference to Americi ibessy Moscow's
C
-574 o June 3.194s, cnceruin an artiole in the
June 1. l949, isste oi Izvettiya co enting on a
Letter to the Nipron Les by Dr. Varren S. Thompson
on the Japanose populatlon problem, the Charsé
d fosires ed n si ts the lonor to transnit a
so y r Dr Tommscn e letter Pron the May 7, 1949,
isste c tnle ee
/6-2049
r ly erves as en adviser to
 o tion protlens. The
Wipmon imes was written in
Pr Allie.S. Kescimltter,
ve uolic news publication
grn
.ssco.
Perc.ent
631
pinke:mhp
ROLSWIED

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch no. 400
dated June 20, 1949 from the
Office of the Political Adviser
for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject,
"Japanese Population Problem".
(COPY)
Nippon Times, May 7, 1949.
RAPS BIRTH COLTROL ORITIC
Dr. Thompson Insists His Proposal Is the Only
Answer to Overpopulation Here
By Dr. Warren S. Thompson
(The following letter by Dr. Thompson, former adviser
to SCAP on population problems and now returned to the
United States, refuting an article written by Father
Willia. S. Kaschmitter, editor of Tosei News, the
Catholic News Agency in Japan, was forwarded to the
Nippon Times through Denis Warner, chief correspondent
of Reuters-AAP. Editor).
In an article in the Nippon Times of April 16
which has just reached me, Father Kaschmitter quotes
me as being in favor of opening up the unused portion
of the world to the peoples, like the Japanese, who
really need more land and larger resources. The
implication he leaves is that if this is done there is
no need of birth control which I advocated as the only
permanent solution of Jayen's population problem while
in Japan recently. I ould like to make the record
clear and set forth my own position on these points
so that there can be no  isunderstanding.
Ly book, "Danger Spots in World Fopulation, to
which Father Kaschmitter refers was written in 1928 and
published in the United States in 1929. In that book
I did urge that deep consideration be given to the
settlement of some of the unused portions of the world
by eople needing more land and resources. I still
believe this ought to be done, and I further believe
if not done voluntarily, these unused lands will be
taken by force as soon as the badly crowded peoples
of the world feel that they have the strength to do
so. I can see no justice in the holding of lands out
of use by colonial povers, but even more weighty in
the determination of national policies in my judgment
is thet there is no physical possibility of preventing
the crowded people of the world from taking these lands
sooner or later.
In this same book I repeatedly stated my belief,
however, that emigration to these unused lands was no
final solution to the population roblems of the crowded
lands of the earth, that the only permanent solution was
the reduction of the birth rate through birth control
until

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.97)
nclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 400,
June 20, 1949。
-2-
until population was brought into balance with the resources
available for its support. I believed then, and could
multiply guotations from this same book tc this effect,
that no country could long support its population after
it achieves the relatively low death rate which characterized
all peoples until only a few decades ago. I also very
definitely stated that the world figures showing population
growth indicated beyond reasonable doubt that poverty
and hardship would continue to be the lot of all men in
the industrially backward arees of the world if man
tampered with (reduced) his death rates and left his birth
rste unaltered. I still believe this to be true.
As regards emigration being the solution of Japan's
populetion problem now, I wish to make my position clear.
Since 1929 we have had a world war. Japan took an
aggressive role in that war. As a result, for the time
being, many people regard all Japanese efforts to secure
nigration outlets with reat suspicion. I a. not asking
here how far thet suspicion is justified. I am only
stating that it is a fact and that its existence constitutes
a decisive obstacle in any large emigration for the next
few years.. But even if this were not a fact, I would
stili hold thet Japan could expect no substantisl relief
of her over-erowding from emigration in the next several
years
The reason For this belief is very simple. The
prectical dirficulties of moving the vast nuaber of
people that would have to be moved to prevent further
growth in Japan's po ulation coald not be overcome for
some years even if truly sreat resources for this purpose
were to te placed at the disposal of the Japanese Govern-
Ment by the United StatesThe natural increase of
population in Japan in 1948 was slightly in excess
1,750 000, or   rox1 utely 4,800 per day. Moving this
number of reople from Japan each day, preparing land which
they couid farm. buildins a village for them est blishing
health serviee, making sure that the crops they are
accustoued to growing will thrive in the new region, and
establishing the meny social. economic, and political
institutions they would need merely to be assured of
reasonably decent living, is beyond Japanese human power.
Ihe history of imigration siows no movement of people
remotely equal to this even at the height of modern
imigration.. All great migretory movements have started
on a small scale and have grown slowly for some years
while the migrants were lesrning how to adjust them-
selves to their new homes, to their new crops. to their
new climate, and to meet the other manifold difficulties
which inevitably accompany pioneering in a new land.
I may add at this point that even if the right to
enigrate on as large a scale as could be achieved were
ismediately granted the Japanese, it would be of no
practical

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.97)
Despatch No。 400,
June 20, 1949。
-3-
practical use unless at the same time the tirth rate
were reduced. Moreover, I have had Japanese argue with
me that if there were an emigration outlet, however
small it might be, it would have the effect of making
the Japanese less ready to consider the need for birth
control. I do not know whether this would be the case,
so I rest my opinion regerding the futility of emigration
from Japan as supplying ii..ediate relief for population
pressure on the practical difficulties of truly large-
scale immigration within two or three decades.
I return again then to the view that birth control
offers far more hope for the reasonaoly rapid adjustment
of populstion to resources than any other scheme which
ca be proposed. I say this fully realizing that the
wide-spiead practice of birth control developed slowly
over several decades in the West. Even if it were to
develop as slowly in Japan, it would, in my judgment,
he much more effective t an emigration although not
be fast enough to prevent increasing hardship. However,
Japan has achieved a decline in the death rate since
the war which as a student of such metters for almost
40 years I did not think possible. If all the resources
of the health organization of Japan are put to work to
teach people now they can control the si e of their
I milies, and if all avenues of publicity are used to
bring to the people the fects showing the need for
population control, I am prepared to believe that e ually
reat progress can be made in the adjustment of numbers
to resources. As one who wishes the Japanese peorle a
better future, I hope fervently that this adjustment
will be rapid, end once achieved, I believe it will be
r1enent.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.98)
MIAMIUNIVERSITY
OXFORD, OHIO
SCRIPPS FOUNDATION FOR RESEARCH
IN POPULATION PROBLEMS
Warren S. Thompson
P. K. Whelpton
D. J. Bogue
July 1, 1949
Mr. Robert A. Fearey
Division of Northeast Asian Affairs
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Fearey:
There can, of course, be no assurence that the great majority of the Japanese
will practice birth control effectively even if the knowledge of birth control is
spread rapidly and the appliances for its practice are made freely available. The
history of the development of birth control in the West would quite naturally lead
Files
This Document Must Be Returned To
one to conclude that it is likely to be several decades, perhaps three to five.
before birth control would be practiced on a scale sufficiently broad to reduce
the absolute increase significantly below that which prevailed before the war.
I was inclined to this view and so expressed myself in my book Population and
Peace in the Pacific (published in 1946, but completed before VJ Day). At the
present time, however, I am disposed to modify that view somewhat. The reasons
which have led me to modify it are as follows:
1. In the West when people began to learn about the possibilities of
birth control their death rates were still fairly high. For example,
in l900, even after birth control had made considerable progress
in the United States, our death rate was in the neighborhood of 17
or 18. It is now about 10-11 as you know. A decline of 6-8 points
in the birth rate accompanied by a like decline in the death rate
would make no difference in the natural increase. In fact, this is
substantially what happened in most Western lands when birth control
began to have an effect on the birth rate.
Last year the death rate in Japan had been brought down to approximately
12 from 17-18 the preceding year (an unparalleled achievement), and
I should not be the least surprised if it dropped to about 1l during
the current year. This means that a comparatively small reduction
in the crude death rate is to be expected in Japan in the future.
Consequently, any significant decline in the birth rate from now
0
on is likely to be accompenied by an equally significant decline
in the rate of natural increase. The increase in absolute mumbers
DC/R
will, of course, remain large for some time unless there is a very
precipitous decline in the birth rate. Is this likely to happen?
C
2
Anal/8
S
2
So far as I know, no other country while it still had a relatively
Rev
high birth rate (the birth rate in Japan was approximately 34 in
7
1948). also had a well developed public health service with
1
Cat
FILED
心1
X 100211
6
5
2

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
2
centers from which the knowledge of birth control might be spread
quite rapidly to practically all parts of its population. At the
time I left Japan there were over 700 so-called model health centers
in operation, end there were in addition a number of smaller centers
which were actually coming into contact with many thousands of
Japanese day by day. The establishment of family clinics (birth
control clinics) in these health centers might very well spread the
knowledge of effective birth control practices throughout Japan
far more rapidly than ever happened in any Western country.
3.
About 85 percent of all the births in Japan are attended in the
home by midwives. No one knows what the attitude of these
midwives towards birth control will be, but the very few I happened
to talk to not only seemed in favor of it themselves, but were
very positive in their opinion that the Japanese farm women and
laborer's wives did not want the large number of births they are
now having. I regret very much that I was so late catching on to
the significance of these midwives in the population situation in
Japan that I could not follow up this lead as I should have liked
to.
4.
There is a very lively public interest in Japan in all matters
regarding population and its relation to the economy. It appears
to be present in all classes of the population and all types of
newspapers, weeklies, and journals are participating in this
discussion. As an exemple, the last week I was in Japan I was
asked to write brief introductory articles for three women's
magazines which were said to have a combined circulation of
2,000,000 and to be read in at least twice that many homes.
The articles which I was asked to write were to appear in editions
which were devoted primarily, one I believe exclusively, to the
discussion of Japanese population problems with special emphasis
upon birth control.
Since my return I have received a number of press clippings which
lead me to think that the whole matter of population control is
being discussed more openly in Japen today than has ever happened
elsewhere. In addition, I understand that the radio and moving
pictures are beginning to be used to inform the Japanese people
not only regarding birth control, but also regarding the economic
difficulties certain to arise from a too rapid increase in
numbers. Finally, the Premier and his cabinet have publicly
expressed themselves in favor of birth control as one of the
important means by which Japan's population growth can be reduced.
Because of the ready acceptance of authority by the Japanese
even in very personel matters this seems to me a very important
event.
I am fully aware that what I have said here does not constitute proof
that the Japanese will adopt birth control fast enough and practice it
effectively enough to reduce the birth rate rapidly within the next few
years, nor am I predicting that this will happen. I will go so far,

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
3
however, as to say that I would not be surprised if the birth rate in Japan were
to fall more rapidly within the next several years than it did at any time in any
Western country. There are, of course, many provisos to be made. For example,
is Premier Yoshida entirely honest in his acceptance of birth control as a vital
factor in Japanese population policy? Are the newspapers and radio giving Japanese
population problems the attention they are merely because they think it will
please the Americans or are they truly convinced of the basic position of popu-
lation numbers in all their economic problems? Have the "Expansionists" honestly
seen the error of their way and are they ready to undertake the adjustment of
population to resources rather than to rely upon the expansion of resources (conquest)
to care for a rapidly growing population? I do not pretend to know the answers
to these questions and I certainly do not know the many practical and personal
difficulties which may be encountered in the efforts to bring down the average
size of the Japanese family. But I still think it possible that the decline in
the Japenese birth rate may be so rapid that it will surprise nearly all of us
who have been thinking of Western experience as a guide to what might happen in
Japan. This would be even more probable if some very simple and effective method
of birth control were discovered. For example, recently two Japanese doctors
were quoted in one of the leading newspapers as having injected a sex hormone into
the blood of a woman which rendered her incapable of conception for three or four
months. I tried to find out more about this atter, but thus far have been unable
to do so.
In connection with your statement that the poorer classes do not practice
birth control to the extent of the more fortunate classes, I would like to make
the observaticn that the facilities for the spread of birth control knowledge
in Japen are now such that if they are used effectively this knowledge will reach
the Japanese poor in relatively much shorter time than it reached the poorer
classes in our own population. I would also observe that in the West the
acquisition of birth control knowledge seems to be reducing the difference
between the size of the family among the well-to-do and the poor.
It is to be hoped that some of the agencies in the Occupation, probably the
public opinion group in CI and E, will study the attitudes of different classes
of Japanese towards the limitation of their own families. Such studies should
give us a much better basis for judging how rapidly the limitation of families
will spread among different parts of the population.
Lest I leave an impression with you which I do not want to leave, I will
say that in my judgment Japan already has a population almost twice as large
as she can provide a good living for in her own islands and that I think they are
bound to suffer far more than at present because of this over-population even
if there were to be no further increase whatever, and there will be further
increase. In my judgment, Japan will face a very severe crisis--one which may
lead to much internal disorder and severe hardship if, and when, our subsidy to
her economy is rather suddenly withdrawn and she is forced to rely more largely
on her own resources. Just what the political consequences of great hardship
(hunger, cold, epidemics, etc.) will be, no one can tell, but I have long been
convinced that war is not generally regarded as a worse evil than suffering within
the family and neighborhood when there is abundance abroad which it appears can
by taken if the proper military preparations are made at home and the leaders are

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.93)
4
sufficiently in control of the avenues of publicity. I do not mean to be either
cynical or pessimistic, but I can see no good coming from a refusal to face facts.
Sincerely,
Nwrrnd. Thmpzon
Warren S. Thompson
fs

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
May 23
E - Mr. Hamilton
May ve have any comments on
this paper or this subject which
E wishes to send to Mr. Rusk?
Mr. Rusk has not yet read
the FE memorandum.
Bks
bks
1364
G:Bromley Smith
E- Mr. Thorp
Assistant Secretary
for Economio Affairs
MAY 2 4 1949
Department of State

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.94)
NA:PA
DATE: July 8, 1949
: FE - Mr. Butterworth,/Mr. Aliison,
TO
Mr. Hamilton
De/R
FROM : NA - R. Fearey nd
Fill
SUBJECT: Japanese Population Problem
You may recall the study "A Population Policy for Japan"
(Tab C), prepared by Mr. Warren S. Thompson of Miami University,
Ohio, following a survey in Japan, which was forwarded by Mr. West
to Mr. Butterworth on May 13. In this study, which seems to me
an excellent analysis of Japan's population problem and economic
prospects and was used as a basis of the recent London Economist
article on Japan, Mr. Thompson holds out considerable hope for
birth control as a means of dealing with the population problem.
On June 20 I wrote to Mr. Thompson (Tab B), with Mr. Bishop's
approval, asking, essentially, if there is "real basis for belief
that the masses of the Japanese population would use birth control
methods to an extent sufficient to affect population growth
materially even if the necessary knowledge and equipment were
This Document Must Be Returned To
made available to them at low cost or free." Mr. Thompson's
R
reply at Tab A contains several interesting points and I think
you would find it worthwhile to read it through.
D
2
2
8
4
6
DOR
Arvi1 (W
S
Rev--
人
Cat.
FE:NA:RAFearey:db
X 100187

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.94)
In reply refer to
NA
June 20, 1949
.epr r. Thompson:
I have read viti grestest interest and profit
your stuay, "e To ul tio licy for Jon n", forwarded
for information to the vep rtment of t te by the
er rtment of therny.
There is only one cuestion, thouph n important
心
one, on vnich I voulu much appreciate :ny further infor-
metion you may be stle to provice. Is there re 1 basis
for belief that the masses of the Japen's po uletion
voulc use birth control methors to an eytent sufficient
to airect rorulstion grovth materially even if the
nece s ry novlecge ne ecuipment ere mace av ilsble
to then t lov cost or free? Are there precedents in
any oth r countries vhere birtr control hes had impor-
tont effect in a situ tion of raridly expandine ponula-
tion e lo veret n or liviry s in Jopon?
It would see to me th t alt ough perhars one or
two il ion of the most  ighly eduested Jap nese might
use virt: control methocs if o nortunity were improved,
the farmint no vork in classes comprising the bulk
of the po ul-tion woule ot.  is, 1 believe, is the
situ: tion cmon the poorer classer of this country,
end in Japan love of children end  cesire for large
Iew ilies for soclal ne economic re sons ere more
: ronouneed th n here.
Its po uletion problen is of course b: sie to sll
of Jvan'e pressing econamic, political ene social
problems.
r. erren . Thompson,
Miami University,

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
problems. I would be most grateful if you could find
time to give me very briefly your views on the above
cueetion.
Sincerely yours,
iobert. Fearey
ivision of ortheest sien Affairs

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.97)
STANDARD M NO.
DATE: Ju1y 22, 1949
To : FE - Mr. Butterworth
sujecT: Attached Letter to Mr. West
Att&ched is the letter to Mr. West
enclosing a copy of Mr. Warren S.
Thompson's letter on the Japanese popu-
lation problem which you asked that I
prepare.
FE:NA:RAFearey:db

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.95)
JUL 251948
Dear Bob:
You may remember a study entitled "A Popalation
Policy for Jajm", prepared by Mr. Warren S. Thompson
of Miami University, of whioh you were kind enough to
xR
send us a copy last Mey. A member of my staff later
wrote to Mr. Thompson informing him of the interest
894.5011
with which he had read the study and requesting his
further views on certain points. Mr. Thompson s reply
seems to me of considerable interest and I think you
will find the enclosed copy worth reading.
894.1221/7-2549
Sincerely yours,
106013
W. Walton Butterworth
Director for Far Eastern Arfairs
494.122-1
Enclosure:
Copy of letter from
Mr. Thompson.
894.1221
Mr. Hobert West,
2L
Deputy to Asslstant Secretary
of the Army.
Department of the Army.
RAY
FE:NA:RAFearey:db
CC
CS/H
7/22/49

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.96)
MIANI UNIVERSITY
OXPORD, ONIO
July 1, 104
Mr. Robert A. Fearey
Division er Nertheast Asian Affairs
Dopartment of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Fearey:
There ean, ef course, be no assurance that the great
majority of the Japanese will practice birth control effestively
even if the knowledge of birth contrel is spread rapidly amd
the appliances for its praotice are made freely available. the
history of the develepment of birth control in the West would
quite naturally lead one to conolude that it is likely to be
several decades, perhaps three to five, befere birth eontrel
would be practiced on a soale sufficlently bread to reduse
the absolute inorease significantly below that whish prevailed
befere the war. I was inelined to this view and se expressed
myselr in my book Population ang Peace in the Pasirie (published
in l946, but completed before VJ Day). At the present sime,
however, I am disposed to modify that view somewhat. The reasems
whioh have led me to modify it are as follows:
1. In the West when people began to leam about the pessi-
bilities of birth control their death rates wwrs still
falrly high. For example, in l900, even after birth
control had made considerable progressian the United
States, our death rate was in the neighborhood ef 17
or 18. It 1s now about 10-1l as you know. A deeline
of 6-@ points in the birth rate accompanied by a like
deoline in the nath rate would make no difference
in the natural screase. In fact, this is substantlally
what happened in most Western lands when birth centrol
began to have an effect on the birth rate.
Last year the death rate in Japan had been brought dowm
to approximately 12 from 17-18 the preceding year (am
unparalleled achievement), and I should not be the least
surprised if it dropped to about 11 during the durremt
year. This means that e somparatively small reduetion
in the erude death rate is to be expeoted in Japan in
the future. Consequently, any signifieant deeline in

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.96)
the birth rate frem new en is likely to be as
by an equally significant deline in the sate er
increase. The inerease in absolute mumbere willg
courss, remain large for some sime unless these
very precipitous decline in the birth rate. Is
likely to happen?
So fer as I know, no other country while it ssall he
2。
a relatively high birth rate (the birth rate in Jas
was approzimately 34 in l948), alse had a well develeped
public health service with centers frem whieh the
knowledge of birth control might be spread quite
repidly to prastically all parts of its pepulation.
At the time I left Japen there were ever 700 se-salled
model health centers in operation, and there were in
addition a number of smaller genters whieh were matually
coming into contact with many thousands of Japamose
dey by dey. The establishment of family elinies (basak
control clinics) in these health canters might vory wall
spread the knowledge of effective birth contrel prmstiees
throughout Janen far more rapidly then ever happened
in eny Western country.
About 85 pereent of all the births in Japen are attended
3.
in the home by midwives. No one knowe what the attitude
of these midwives towards birth control will be, but
the very few I happened to talk to not only seemed in
favor or it themselves, but were very positive in their
opinion that the Japanese farm women and laberer's wives
did not want the large number of births they are mow
having. I regret very much that I was so late eatehing
on to the signifioance of these midwives in the pop-
lation situstion in Japan that I sould not follow up
this lead as I should have liked to.
There is a very lively publie interest in Japan in all
matters regarding population and its relation to the
economy. It appears to be present in all elasses ef
the population and all types of newspapers, weeklies,
and Journals are participating in this diseussionl
As an example, the last week I wes in Japan I was
asked to write brief intäfductory artieles fer three
women's magazines which were said to have a combined
ciroulation of 2,000,000 and te be read in at least
twiee that many homes. The artieles whien I was asked
to write were to appear in editiens whieh were dsveted
primarily, one I believe exelusively, to the disemesion

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.96)
一
Sinee my returm I have ressived a number of prems
alippings whish lead me to think that the wheles
of population sontrol is being diseussed more ep
in Japan today than has ever happened elsewaere.
addition, I understand that the radie and moving
pictures are beginning to be used to infesm the Jase
people not only regarding birth contrel, but alse
regarding the economio difficulties certain to arase
from e too rapid increase in numbers. Finally, the
selves in favor of birth control as one of the imperte
means by which Japen's poculation growth ean be zedmes
Because of the ready aoceptanee of authority by the
Japanese even in very personal matters this seems to
me a very important epent.
I em fully aware that what I have said here dees not constitate
proof that the Jupanese will adopt birth control fast enough me
practice if effectively enough to reduce the birth rate rapidly
within the next few years, nor am I predioting that this will
happen. I will go eo far, however, as to say that I would net
be surprised if the birth rate in Japan were to fall more rapidly
within the next several years then it did at any time in any
Western country. There are, of course, many provisos to be mado.
For example, is Premier Yoshida entirely honest in his acceptanse
of birth control es a vital factor in Japanese population poliey?
Are the newspapers and radio giving Japanese population problems
the attention they are merely because they think it will please
the Americans or are they truly convinoed of the basio position
of ponulation numbers in all their economie problems? Have the
"Expanslonists" honestly seen the error of their way and are they
ready to undertake the adjustment of population to resourees
rather then to rely upon the expansion of resources (conquest)
to care for a rapidly growing population? I do not pretend to
know the anewers to these questions and I oertainly do not knew
the many practicial and personal diffieulties which may be
eneountered in the efforts to bring down the average size of the
Japanese family. But I still think it poseible that the deslime
in the Japanese birth rate may be so rapid that it will surprise
nearly all of us who have been thinking of western experienee
as a guide to what might happen in Japan. This would be even
more probable if some very simple end effective method of birth
control were discovered.  For example, recently two Japanese
dootors were quoted in one of the leading newspepers as having
injeeted a sex hormone into the blood of a women whieh rendered
her ineapable of conception for three or four months. I tried
to find out more about this matter, but thus far have been
umable to do so.

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.97)
In sonnestion with your statement that the pecrer alasmem
de not prastice birth contrel to the extent of the mos for
for the spread of birth control knowledge in sapen ae mow m
that ir they are used ofreetively this knowledge will weash
the Japanese poor in relatively much sherter time than it reashed
the poorer olasses in our own population. I would alse ebeesve
that in the West the acquisition of birth contrel knewledge seems
to be redueing the differenee between the size of the family
among the well-to-do and the poor.
It is to be hoped that some of the ageneies in the Ossmpatien,
probably the public opinion group in CI and E, will study the
attitudes of different classes of Japanese towards the limita-
tion or their own families. Sueh studles should give us a maah
better basis for judging how rapidly the limitation of familles
will spread among different parts of the population.
Lest I leave an impression with you whioh I do not went to
leave, I will say that in my judgment Japan already has a popu-
lation almost twice as large as she can provide a good living for
in her own islands and that I think they are bound to suffer
far more than at present because of this over-population even
1f there were to be no further inorease whatever, and there will
be further inorease. In my judgment, Japen will fase a very
severe crisis--one whioh may lead to much internal disorder and
severe hardship if, and when, our subsidy to her economy is
rather suddenly withurawn and she is forced to rely more largely
on her own resources. Just what the politioel consequenoes of
great hardship (hunger, cold, epidemies, etc.) will be, no one
oan tell, but I have long been convinoed that war is not generallg
regarded as a worse evil than suffering within the family and
neighborhood when there is abundance abroad which 1t appears can
be taken 1f the proper military preparations are made at home
and the leadere are suffiolently in control of the avenues of
publicity. I do not mean to be either oynicel or pessimistie,
but I can see no good coming from a refusal to face faots.
Sineerely,
/s/ Warren S. Thompson
Warren S. Thompson

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.90)
DC/R ROUTING SLIP
PROM Panama
Deek 2005
NO
894.202/9/7-2246
ACTION: 3FC
COPIES TO ⊥E∠R-X
4ARA
5007
11F1
IJA
3 ES
3.urar
110
Mavy
23
SH
7/30
