894.60 Japan, Industrial Matters., August 28, 1947 - December 27, 1949 (File 1831)
ID: 894.60-1831   Pages: 350   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.60-japan-industrial-matters-7
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.94)
RESTRICTED
THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
SWN-5667
DC
28 August 1947
mremoited
MEMCRANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY CF STATE:
(Attention:
Mr. J. M. Penfi Id, FE)
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
Subject:
Direosive Tronsmitted to SoAP by
AUG 2 8 1947
the int Ohiefs of St ff
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Enclosed re three copies of Directive, Seriel
No. 37, tronsmittea to sCAP by the Joint Chiefs of
Stase. 3 r No. 1 is for transmittel to the Fer
894.60/8-2847
E stern Commission, and Copies Nos. ? end S ere for
the files f the State Department.
For the St: te-ll.r-N a Cooraincting Committee:
H. U. Wole
Secretery
Enclosures:
Copies Nos 1,  & 5
Serirl No. 87
FILED
DCR ITP Unit
THIS DOSUMT IS DECLASSIFTET
Anal. 
A
WHEN ATTACHMENT IS REMOVED
cv.
.
Dist
RESTRICTED

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
COFY NO.
Serial No. 87.
23 August 1947
DIRECTIVE TO THE SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
REDUCTION OF JAPANESE INDUSTRIAL WAR POTENTIAL
The following Directive, Serial Number 87, prepared by
the State Department to implement the policy adopted by the
Far Eastern Cormission on August 14, 1947, under the provisions
of paragraph II, a, 1, of its terms of referenco has beon
receivod from the Stato, War and Navy Departmonts for trans-
mission to you for your guidance in accordance with paragraph
III, 1, of thoso torms of roference:
"1. Summary
Subject to tho provisicns stated in paragraph 10, the
following actions, as detailed in paragraphs 2-9, should be
taken during the period of tho occupation, in order to reduce
Japanose industrial war potential:
2. All special purposc industrial machinery and
equipnent functionally limited to use in connection
with conbat equipment end-products, should be destroyed.
b. All other industrial machinery and cquipment in
prinary war industries, and such other industrial
facilities in secondary war industrics and war-supporting
industries as may be in excess of tho pcacoful neods
of the Japanese economy should be made available for
claim as reparations.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
c. During the period of the occupation, a prohibit
should be maintained against the re-establishmont orp
war industries; and specified war-supporting industrie
should be limited to the productive capacity levels
romaining after complotion of the reduction program out-
lined above, except as modifications in theso levels nay
be authorized by the Far Eastern Conmission.
"2. Primary war facilitios
a. Dofinitions:
(1). Primary war facilities are defined as plants
and establishments primarily engaged in the develop-
ment, manufacture, assombly, tosting, ropair,
maintonance, or storage of combat equipment end-
products and civil aircraft, and plants and establish-
ments buiiding merchant vessels above a size to be
determined by the Far Eastern Conmission.
(2). Combat equipmont end-products are defined as
weapons, anmunitions, missiles and explosives used
for military purposes; chomical or bactorial warfare
agents; ultra-shortwave radio equipment (radar); naval
combat vessels; armored vehiclos; or aircraft (including
air frames and aircraft engines).
b. Disposition:
(1). All firns and orgenizations, whcther publicly
or privately owned and operated, whoso activities have
related primarily to the oporation of primary war
facilities and whose continucd existence is deened by
the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers to be
undesirable from a security standpoint, should be dis-
solved by the Supreme Conmander, who should at the same
time scize their records and register all their key
oxecutive, managerial, research and ongineering personnel.
(2). All plants and establishments identified by the
Supremo Commander as primary war facilities should be
impounded, and their machinory and equipment. made

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
available fcr reparations, subject to the following
limitation: All buildings, machinery, and equipment
primary war facilities which, by virtue of initial
design, construction, or major structural change, are,
as individual itoms, special purpose in nature and
functionally limited to use in conncction with combat
cquipment end-products should bo destroyed:
"3. Secondery war facilitics
a. Definition:
Sccondary war facilities are dofined as plants and
ostablishmonts primarily ongaged in menufacturing,
repairing or maintaining major fabricated componont parts,
sub-assomblics, acccssories, or equipment espccially
dosigned for use in the products or primary war facilities.
b. Disposition:
(1). In plants end cstablishments identified by
tho Supreme Comnander as being originally organized or
completely reequipped to oporate as secondery wer
facilities, as ccfined in subparagraph a above, all
machinory and equipment, excopt as neted under (3) below,
should be made available for reparations.
(2). In plants and establishacnts other than those
covered in (1) above, all machinery and cquipaent,
except as noted under (3) below, should be disposed of
under the recommondations in paragraph 5 covering the
industry with which, in the opinion of the Supreme
Commander, thoy wore associated prior to their con-
version or diversion to war production.
(3). All buildings, machinery, and cquipuont in
sccondary war facilitics which by virtue of initial
design, construction, or major structural change are as
individual itens special purpose in nature and
functionally limited to uso in connoction with combat
oquipment end-products should be destroyed.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
"4. Dispersed machinory and equipmont frou prinamy and
secondary war facilities.
All special purposo nachinory and equipmont, as defined
under 2 b (2) and 3 b (3) above, should be.scught out in loca-
tions to which they may have been removed fron primary and
secondary war facilities, and should be destroyed wherever
found. Other nachinery and equipment which was formerly usod
in primary and secondary war facilitics but subsoguently dis-
porsed, need not be sought out and identificd under the pro-
vision of this paragraph but should bc trocted under paragraph
5, as a part of the industry with which it is associated.
"5. War-supporting industrios
a. Ovor-all policy
As a supplementary mecsure dosigned further to reduce
Japan's industrial wer potontial, that portion of exist-
ing capacity in selccted war-supporting industries which
is in oxcess of that necessary to moot tho peacoful needs
of the Japanese people, as defined by the Far Eastern
Conmission, should be made available for ronoval as
roparations.
L. Application
(1). Tho following spocific industries aro con-
sidered as being war-supporting,' for purposes of the
industrial removals provided for in paragraph 5 a
(a) The iron and stool industry, producing pig
iron, stccl ingots and basic shapes
(b) The coal carbonization industry
(c) The non-forrous metals industry, producing
pig, ingot and basic shapes
(a) The light motals industry, producing alumina,
primary aluminun and magnesium, rolled, drawn or
extruded shapcs
(e) The motal-working machinery industry, produc-
ing machine tools, cutting tools and secondary metal
working machinery

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
(f) The ball and roller bearing indue
(g) That part of the chemical industry
industrial explosivos, sulfuric acid, soda ah
caustic soda, chlorine, chemical nitrogen and
calcium carbido (in the caso of industrial explosive
'capacity which is in excess of that neccssary to
meet the peaceful needs of the Japanose pooplet is
defined as capacity which is in oxcess of that
necessary to meet Japanese domestic requiroments)
(h) Tho railway oquipment industry
(1) The automotive industry
(j) The elcctric power industry
(k) Tho conent and abrasivos industrios
(1) The stool morchant shipbuilding and repair
industry (residual after ronovals effeotod under
paragraph 2)
(m) The Merchant Marine, fishing, whaling and
cannery flcets, including publicly and privately
owned steel vessols of 100 tons or ovor (this shall
not be interpreted to prevent vessels of less than
100 tons being considered for reparations)
(n) The oil rofining and synthetic fuel industry
and storage
(o) The synthotic rubber industry
(p) The heavy cloctrical equipuont industry
(2). In addition to roduction in capacity in
the specific industries listed above, a further
reduction in the total inventory of motal-working
machinery in Japan should be effected in so far as this
may bo required to eliminato metal-working capacity in
oxcess of the peaceful needs of tho Japanose poople as
defined by tho Far Eastorn Commission.
"6. Residual capacity
After the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers has com-
ploted the selection for delivery to claimant countries of
industrial plants or facilities within the categories of

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
industry approved for removal as reparations by the Far Bai
Comnission, and, after tho destruction of spocial purposo
machinery, as defincd in paragraphs 2 and 3, rosidual pro-
ductive capacity in tho industries designated in this paper
which is in excess of Japan's pcacoful neods, as defined by the
Far Eastern Conmission, should be appraised fron the standpoint
of tho individual and collective war potential represented by
this capacity, and a decision made by the Far Eastorn Connission
as to its disposition.
"7. Property of Nationals of neibers of tho United Nations
Tho property of Nationals of nonbers of tho Unitod Nations
should be dealt with in accordancc with FEC-226/1 (destruction
or ronoval of United Nations property in Japan, approved 24
April 1947 and transmitted to tho Supreme Commander for the
Alliod Powers as Directive Sorial Nunber 76 on 2 May 1947).
"8. Reparations
Removal or destruction of industrial capacity for security
purposes under tho torns of this policy should not be limited
in order to compensate for tho orfects of industrial
romovals for reparations.
Japanose industrial
"9. Post-ronoval rostrictions on
capacity
Throughout the period of the occupation the following
limitations of Japanese industrial capacity should be
maintained.
a. Primary war facilities:
Within the framework of the definitions given in
paragraphs 2 and 3:
(1). Tho following should be prohibited in Japan:
The establishnent, possossion or operation of any
facilities for the dovclopment, manufacturo or
assenbly of combat equipment end-products; the
development, manufacture, asseubly, importation or
possession of any special purpose machinery and equip-
nont as defined under paragraphs 2 b (2) and 3 b (3);

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
the development, manufacture or assembly or
equipment end-products, or their possession
authorized by the Supreme Commander, after conmult
with the Allied Council for Japan in accordance with
the terms of reference of the Allied Council for Japan
for the purposes of the occupation; the building of
merchant vessels above a size to be determined by the
Far Eastern Commission; the developmont, nanufacture or
assembly of civil aircraft; and the participation by the
Japanese Governnent or Japaneso nationals in the owner-
ship or airborne operation of civil aircraft.
(2) Japan should be directed to prohibit any of its
nationals from taking part in the ownership or opera-
tion of primary war facilities outside of Japan.
b. War-supporting industries.
The capacity levcls remaining in the iron and steel,
light motals, metal-working machinery, ship-building, oil
refining and storage, synthetic oil and synthetic rubber
industries, efter the completion of the industrial removals
proposed in this paper and after the disposition of remain-
ing'excess facilities as provided for under paragraph 6,
should constitute the permissible maxima in these
industries until the end of the present phase of the
occupation of Japan or until 1 October 1949, whichever is
the earlier, pending a decision as to the long-term dis-
armament controls. These maxima should be subject to re-
vicw by the Far Eastern Commission, and, if the Commission
oxpects still to be charged on 1 October 1949 with
rosponsibility for post-surrender policies respecting
Japan, the Comnission should assess the situation before
that date with a view to the adoption of an appropriate
policy to be put into effect on 1 October 1949, on which
date the provisions herein specified regarding productive
capacity maxima in these industries will lapse. If, at
any time during the occupation, the Supreme Commander con-
sidors an adjustmont in these levels necessary, he should

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRIOTED
after consultation with the Allied Counoil for Jap
accordance with the terms of reference of the Allied
Council for Japan, recormend such an adjustment and submit
to the Far Eastern Commission appropriate supporting data.
Changes in the established levels can be made after
adoption by the Far Eastern Commission on a policy decision
authorizing such a change.
"10. Occupation needs
The Supreme Commander should be authorized to except
temporarily from the provisions of this paper particular
primary war facilities, secondary war facilities and facili-
tics in war-supporting industrics, in so far as such facili-
tics are required to moet the needs of the occupation. In
such cases the Supreme Commander will, after consultation
with the Allied Council for Japan in accordance with the
terms of reference of the Allicd Council for Japan, provide
an explanation of reasons for retention and an estimated date
of renoval or destruction.
"11. Records of property removals and dostruction
The Supreme Ccmmander should keep records of all property
renoved from Japan or destroyed in the execution of the
policies in this paper.
"12. The provisions of this policy decision will apply
until an appropriate decision on this question by the peace
confcrence."
-8-

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.92)
September 4,19
Ia reply refer to
JA
RESTRIOTER
MEMORANDUN FOR THE BEORETARY GENERAL
894.60/8-2847
FAR EASTERN GONMISSION
In accordamee with a memerandum dated August 28, 1949,
from the State-War-Mavy Coerdimating Committee, there is
enelosed a certified copy of Directive, Serial No. 87, to
the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers regarding Re-
duction of Japamese Industrial War Petential, to be filed
with the Far Eastern Gommission under the previsioms ef
paragraph III, 4, of its Terms of Referemee.
Charles E. Saltsman
Assistant
Seeretary
CS/V
Enclesure:
Copy No. 1 (certiried)
of Direetive to SCAP,
Serial No. 87.
168
gma
NA:ALDunningiggg
AH
60
8/28/47
Rev.
CR
-28
Cu.
SEP 3
347F.
SEF  1947 P.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.87)
A:9-15-47
 - o
FH: PI(PV) - W. Walkinehe
Sragestlons fer e rarly to
the atte ched Jetter would bo ap-
precietee. It it seems preferable
to nsrer direetly from our of-
fice, wi1 you sene e ccpy of the
  PL7

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.96)
R. F. D., 1, Fallston, d.,
SEP 22 1947
MOR
Sept. 5, 19BEPARTMENT OF STATE
De
tment of Far East,
OF PUBLIC
LIAISON
U. S. State Dept.,
DIVISION
foOEaliyty
SEP
DEPT. OF STATE.
Washington, D.
BERI
Dea
I have heard over the radio, it is being considered, to destroy
the machinery of Nippon, that type tha can be used to make war material.
Why not give this to China, and let that nation make use of it?
894.60/9-547
Also, I heard, a €w months ago, machinery for making experiments in
experiments in atomic energy was destroyed, that, the press and scientists
of this nation, put up a protest against such useless destruction, that,
it could be applied here.
Some ships were skutthgd, to dispose of them. why not give such material
to China? Let that nation get the benefit of it.
To do this, would at least be rational, not subnormal.
Respectfully,
Jesse'L. Robinson.
DMISION OF
NORTHEAST ASION AFFAIRS
CS/A
OCT-1947
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MAA
894.60/9547
OCT 21 19.:7
m
FILED

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.90)
1627
007 2087
La reply refer to:
G-8X
dear Mr. Rebinsems
894.60/9-547
Reseipt is askmowlodged of your Lotter ef
September 5, 1947 in whioh you outlined your viows
regarding peliey teward Japanese industrial faeil-
ities and equipment.
The Uaited States Government reesives many
suggestiens regarding sush matters from private
individuals and organisations. These suggestioms
are studied by the Department of State and ether
interested agensies of the Government and you my
be assured that every effort is made to explore
thoroughly the merits of all these contributisms.
Your eourtesy in forwarding an exposition of
your views is greatly appresiated.
Sineerely yours,
Roswell H. Whitman
CS/A
Assesiate Chief
Division of Osgupied Areas Rconomio Affairs
Mr. Jesse L. Robinson
R. F. D. No. 1
力
Fallstes, Maryland
8%
SGK
6
E18Lallis/gp
1 Ootober 1947
RBL
OB
47

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
Jap War Plants
Ordered Junked
WASHINGTON, Sept. 3
— (U.P) — The 11-nation far
eastern commission has or-
dered Gen. Douglas Mac-
Arthur to give what
amounts to a knock-out
blow to all Japanese in-
dustry capable of being used
for war purposes.
The commission ordered the
destruction of all buildings.
machinery and equipment which
would be used only in the pro-
duction of war materials.
The directive followed the gen-
eral outline of previous commis-
tion policy but expanded on it and
spelled out in detail the various
industries involved. The order
amounts to a virtual endorsement
of the pollcy already being fol-
lowed by MacArthur.
MacArthur was authorized to
make such use as he deems neces-
scry of any war-potential industrial
cquipment during the period of
occupation. He was instructed,
however, to "provide an explana-
tion of reasons for retention and
an estimated date of removal or
destruction."
The commission told MacArthur
to dissolve all firms and organiza-
tions, whetner publicly or privately
owned ando p e r a t e d, "whose
activities have related primarily
to the operation of primary war
facilities and whose continued ex-
istence is deemed. . und sirable
from a secudity standpoint."

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.95)
REP. C. R. BOARD. BOISE CITY
VICE-CHAIRMAN
OKLAHOMA
VRESENTATIVES:
SENATORS:
A. B. ANN. EL CITV
FLOTD E. CARRIER. CARRIER
EVERETT S. COLLINS. SAPULPA
JAMES M. BULLARD, BUNGAN
THONAS D. FINNEY, IDABEL
R. RHYS EVANS, ARDNORE
RAYMOND GARY, MADILL
PAUL HARKEY. IDABEL
BILL LOGAN, LAWTON
JOHN H. JARMAN. OKLANONA GITV
PHIL H. LOWERY, LOCO
D. L. JONES, ELDORABO
PERRY PORTER, MIAMI
A. R. LARASON. FARGO
THEODORE PRUETT. ANADARKO
LLOYD H. MCGUINE, GUTHRNE
JAMES A. RINEHART, EL RENO
State Legislatibe Council
JOE E. MUSGRAVE, TULSA
JOHN W. RUSSELL, OKNULSEE
894.60/9-647
OKLAHOMA CITY
STREETER SPEAKMAN, SAPULPA
L. D. MELTON. DIRECTOR
CLAUD THOMPSON. ANTLERS
E. T. DUNLAP. WILBURTON
Sept. 6, 1047
DAISIONEOF
Denartment o State
MORTHERST ASIAN AFFAIRS
Washinaton, D. C.
DINIS.CA OF OCUPIED 
ECO O' IC AFFAIRS
OCT - 21947
Gentiomen:
OCT 1 3 1947
cadine of the attached news item prompts me DMsion oF
be an ill-advised and silly procedure.
This junkin" of so-called "war plants" would 0CT -91947
seem to be merely an extension of the alreddy dis-
credited Horganthau Plan for de riving G ermany DaPaRimENI Of STAIE
its heavy indus try to the Jananese theatre.
Within two or three years I predict American
taxryers will be called on for funds with which to
sustain the Japanese by reason of their inability
to sustain therselves throuch destruction of heavy
industries in that country.
CS/V
And vithin ten or twenty years, wo shall be
needing all of Japan's heavy industry, and enlisting
Jananese manpower as well, for the purposo of holding
Russia in check or in a ficnt to the finish.
Che American peoplo would heve nore respect
for our covernuent if those in irmodiate charce of
its affairs evidonced an ability to look to the
FILED
future rather than livin in tho past, and deter-
mined our foreign policy accordingly.
The views epressed herein are my owm and not
894.
those of the State Lecislative Council of Oklahoma.
Sincerely yours,
69
L Dmeeton
AIMS
L. D. Melton
cal

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.91)
75
Ia reply refer to:
(094.60/9/667 08/0)
894.60/9-647
Bear Mr. Maltem:
Rescipt is sakmouledged of your letter of
September 6, 1947 in whieh you cutlined your vioms
regarding peliey teward Japenese industry.
You may be assured that withis the taited
States Goverament there is a full amareness of the
neeessity fer a self-sustaining pesestime eecmomy
in Japan. The Far Eastern Commissiom, of whiek the
United States is a member, has likewise given eare-
ful eonsideration to the peaseful needs of the
Japanese peeple is arriving at the peliey temarés
Japanese war-supporting industry to whioh referenee
is made in your letter.
Your eourtesy in forarding an exposition of
your views is greatly appresiated.
Sinserely yours,
JPn
Roswell H. Mhitman
8
Asseciate Chief
Division of Ocsupied Arees Economie Affairs
Mr. L. D. Malten
Direster
State Legislative Couneil
Cklakemm City, Cklahomm
4
894.60
SGK
:8Ka111s/gp
10/1/47
A true copy of
the sigaed orial-
nai.
19-647
OBL
147 P.N
3
OCT

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET
THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
SWN-5682
DC/R
9 September 1947
SED
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
Subject: Amendment to SWNCC 236/43.
SEP1919470
References:
a
SWNCC 236/43
SWNCC 236/48
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
o.
BWN-5296
894.60/9-947
F.(以).
By informal act1on on 9 September 1947 the State-War-
Navy Coordinating Committee approved SWNCC 236/48 and agreed
to amend SWNCC 236/43 as recommended therein.
740
Attached herew1th are copies No. 50 and 51 of a Decision
Amending SWNCC 236/43. Cop1es No. 50 and 51 of SWN00 236/43
were forwarded to the Departmcnt of State as enclosures to
reference 0 on 8 April 1947.
Also attached are cop1es of SWNCC 236/48.. It is re-
quested that the Department of State transmit the amendment
to SWNCC 236/43 to the U.S. Member, Far Eastern Commission,
with instructions to seek agreement within the Commission to
this change.
It is further requested that the Department of State
furnish the SWNCC Secretariat with coples of any action taken
in this matter.
For the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee:
SEP 18 1947
FILED
W.N. Haelay
CHARLES E. SALTZAN
 2de - 2C
Chairman
SECRET FILE
Enclosures:
Cop1es No. 50 & 51, Dec.Amending SWNCC 236/43
LEC
Cop1es No. 54 & 55, SWNCC 236/48
HIS DOCUMENT IS DECLASSIF
WHEN ATTACHMENT IS REMOVED
SECRET

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.97)
S ECRET
51
COPY NO.
9 September 1947
STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
DECISION AMENDING SWNCC 236/43
REPARATIONS REMOVALS
OF INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES AND
MERCHANT
SHIPPING FROM JAPAN
Note by the Secretaries
1. By 1nformal action on 9 September 1947 the State-War-Navy
Coordinating Comm1ttee approved SWNCc 236/48 and agreed to amend
SWNCC 236/43.
2. Holders of SWicc 236/43 are therefore requested to sub-
stitute the attached revised page 396 for the one contained therein
and destroy the superseded page by burning.
H. W. ACSELEY
W. A. SCHU GEN
V. L. LOMWRANCE
Sccr tariat
Fw 894.Ceo
SECRE

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
1. All vessels of more than 6,0oo gross tom
each which have a speed in excess of 15 knot
should be made available for claim.
(10) N1ckel Smelters
(Definition: "Plants and establishments primarily
engaged in the smelting of nickel from its ores. ")
(a) All nickel ameltere will be made available
for reparations claim.
(11) Synthetic Rubber
(Definition: "Plants and establishments primarily
engaged in the production of synthetic rubber. ")
(a) All facilities in the synthetic rubber
industry will be made available for claim.
(12) Synthetic O11
(Definition: "Plants and establishments engaged
in the manufacture of liquid fuels from coal, whether by
high-pressure hydrogenation, the Fischer-Tropsch process,
or low temperature carbonization. ")
(a) All facilities of the synthetic oil industry
will be made available for claim, subject to the fol-
lowing limitation:
1. Any machinery or equipment in such plants
which is suitable for use in production of
synthetic ammonia, and, which, in the judgment
of SCAP should be transferred for use in produo-
tion of synthetic ammonia for fertilizer manu-
facture will be exempted from claim.
b. Industrial facilities not specified for removal
above, but which are made idle because of reparations
removals prescribed herein, may be made available for
reparations removals unless new essential uses for them
SWNCC 236/43
- 396 -
Enclosure
(revised 9 Sept 47)

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.98)
SS
SECRET
COPY NO.
9 September 1947
STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
DECISION ON SWNCC 236/48
REPARATIONS REMOVALS OF INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES
AND MERCHANT SHIPPING FROM JAPAN
Note by the Secretaries
By informal action on 9 September 1947 the State-War-Navy
Coordinating Committee approved SWNCC 236/48, and SWNCC 236/43
has been amended accordingly.
H. W. MOSELEY
W. A. SCHULGEN
V. L. LOWRANCE
Secretariat

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
COPY NO.
SWN0C 236/48
:6 August 1947
Pages 435 - 436, 1ncl.
STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
REPARATIONS REMOVALS OF INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES
AND MERCHANT SHIPPING FRCM JAPAN
Reference:
SWNCC 236/43
Note by the Secretaries
The enclosure, a memorandum by the Navy Member, SWNCC, is
circulated for consideration by the Committee in connection
with the above reference as a matter of PRIORITY.
H. W. MOSELEY
W. A. SCHULGEN
V. L. LOWRANCE
Secretariat
7

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
ENCLUSURE
REPARATIONS REMOVALS OF INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES
AND MERCHANT SHIPPING FROM JAPAN
Memorandun by the Navy Member, SWNCC
SWNCC 236/43 provides that merchent ships in excess of an
aggregate of 2,0o0,000 gross tons should be made available for
claim as reparations subject to the following limitetion: All
vessels of more than 3,ooo light displacement tons eaoh or with
a maximum speed in excess of 15 knots should be made available
fcr claim.
The Japanese merchant fleet as reported by SCAP on Merch
31, 1947 aggregates 1,538,C13 gross tons. This includes ships
that are operating, laid up, demaged or being repaired.
Under the present fcrmula by which Japanese merchent
shipping might be subject tc removal on reparations account, it
is estimated that 102 ships aggregating 760,000 groes tons would
be subject to such removal. This tonnage represents more than
40% of the present Japanese merchant marine.
When SWNCC 236/43 was approved it was the general under-
standing that few vessels should become available for reperatione
(not more than 100,000 gross tons). It now appears that the.
present wording of the paper with respect to merchant shipping
wculd make availeble the number of ships and tonnage stated
above.
A removal of merchant shipping in the neighborhood of
760,000 gross tons would have a serious effect on Japan's
balance of payments but the effect would rot be significant if
only 100,0oo gross tons were remov ed. The cost to Japan in
terms of foreign exchange would be reflected in decreased ship-
ping receipts for the trensport of exports from Japan and
increased peyments to foreign shipping for transport of essential
SWNCC 236/48
-435 -
Enclosure

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
2.
SECRET
Japenese imports. If the U.S. should engage in a program of
underwriting Japan's economic recovery, the cost to the U.S.
would be increased and the period of time required for Japan
to reach a self-supporting economy, and thereby enable the
U.S. to cease its outleys for Japan's recovery, would be
prolonged.
The tonnage limitation now imposed upon the Japanese
merchant marine is expressed in terms of light displacement
tonnage. Gross tonnage of existing Japanese merchant ships
are already known whereas light displacement tonnages ere
not known and in many cases would be very difficult, if not
impossible, to obtain without actual messurements of the
vessels concerned. For this reascn cnd also because certain
powers in the Far Eastern Comnission are insisting on a change
to gross tons as a measure, it is deemed desirable that this
expression of tonnage linitation be changed from light dis-
placement to gross tonnage in connection with ships to be
taken from Japan on reparations account.
While there is nc
exact formula that can be applied to the gross tonnage of a
ship in order to convert this measure of size to light
displacement tonnage, it appears from the best figures
available that a 3,o0oo ton light displacement ship wculd have
a gross tonnage of approximately 6,00o tons.
For the above reasons it is recommended that:
a.
Paragraph 3 a (9)(a)1 of SWNCC 236/43 be amended
to read as follows:
"All vessels of more than 3y000-light-dieplaeement
6.000 gross tons each er-with-a-maximum-seeed which
have a specd in excess of 15 knots should be made
available for claim."
b.
This emendment be transmitted to the U.S. Member,
FEC with instructions to seek agreement within the Com-
mission to this change.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.91)
SEP 1 6 1947
SEGRET
MENORANDUN POR THE UHITED STATES MENER,
FAR EASTERN COMNISSION
In ascordance with a memorandum dated September 9,
1947, from the State-War-Mavy Geerdinating Gemmittee,
there are enelosed sopies of Swnc0 2se/4s and the Besision
Amending Swncd 236/43, regarding Reparations Remevals of
Industrial Fasilities and Merehaat Shipping frem Japan.
894.60/9-947
On September 9, 1947, the State-Var-Navy Goerdinating
Gommittee approved swndc 236/48 and agreed te amend
SWNCC 236/43 as recommended therein.
The United States Member, Far Eastern Gemmission 1s
requested to seek agreement within the Gommission te the
change incorporated in the ameadment te Swn00 236/43.
SwNc0 236/48 1s transmitted to the United States Member
1n explanation of the amendment to SW200 236/45.
Charles E. Saltsman
Assistant Sesretary
Enslosures: 
A/SS
Copy No. 50, Dec1sion Amending SWNC0 236/43
Copy Mo. 54, SWN00 236/48
00
sm
Cloos theef
BEGRET
A true
94
NA:ALDanning/pm
FE
the sigoad
EP
JR
9/11/47
nal.
47 F.m

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVI
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFARS
FOR JAPAN
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Tokyo, September 29, 1947.
UNCLASSIFIED
No. 1307
894.60/9-2947
SUBJECT:
Remarks by Chairman and Member for the United
States to be Made at Forty-Second Meeting of
4R740.00119
Allied Counc il for Japan October 1, 1947.
2
control
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
sir
I have the honor to forward as an enclosure copy of
a statement to be made by myself as Chairman and Member
ACTION
FE
for the United States at the Forty-Second Meeting of the
Allied Council for Japan to be neld on October 1, 1947.
COPIES
This statement, which has the approval of General MacArthur,
TO:
is to be made pursuant to the Agenda item under Official
Matters, "Report by the Chairman on Japanese Industrial
Production", and was proposed for discussion by the Supreme
ED
Commander for the Allied Powers.
Respectfully yours,
CS/V
L.Beaaee.
ACR
W. J. Sebald
1947 OCT 14 AM 10 15
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Counselor of Mission
RECEIVED
Enclosure:
894.60
8
C(D
Remarks by Chairman and
United States Member,
Allied Council for Japan.
Original and hectograph to Department.
500
WJSebald/blc
EEB 4 1948
WH

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 1307, dated September 29, 1947,
from the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo,
on the subject "Remarks by Chairman and Member for the
United States to be Made at Forty-Second Meeting of Allied
Council for Japan October 1, 1947.
COPY
One of SCAP's major objectives in Japan has been the
realization of a sound and self-supporting economy in a
reformed and democratized institutional framework. Of the
infinitely varied and enormously complicated problems con-
fronting the Occupation, the task of securing the rehabili-
tation of the Japanese industrial machine along peaceable
lines has clearly been among those most difficult of attain
ment.
In appraising Japan's present position, it is of interest
to recall that the remarkable expansion and alteration of the
character of the Japanese industrial machine was the outoome
of plans formulated and executed beginning in the early
1930's. With the invasion of Hanchuria, Japan shifted her
emphasis from the production of textiles and other light
manufactures for export to the development of heavy machinery
industries, including machine tools and the creation of a
complete chemicals industry. The program was continued
throughout the '30s and for Japan's purposes, was successful.
The machine tool industry, capable of turning out more than
60, Coo units a year, and the heavy machinery industry, which
produced the largest industrial u.lits needed in her Empire,
plus a chemicals industry, which in some phases included
production of synthetic nitrates, were all developed during
that period and were exceeded only by the industries of the
United States and Germany. While Japan's peak industrial
production level was acnieved in 194l, her war production
capacity reached a plateau probably in 1943, after which
all efforts were turned to the fabrication of end items.
In 1944, her production reached such impressive totals as
more than 1, 500, 000 gross tons of shipping and 25,000 air
craft.
Initially, the Occupation was confronted with an
industrial establishment virtually at a standstill. The
effect of the Allied blockade of Japan by sea and by air
had throttled all supply lines from Asia and the island
portions of her former Empire, while bombing raids had
destroyed perhaps 30% of her overall plant capacity and
had greatly disorganized all industrial effort through the
burning of cities and disruption to essential services.
With surrender and entrance of the occupying armies, in-
dustrial ohaos became even more pronounced. The Munitions
Ministry, somewhat comparable to the American War Production
Board, has been dissolved with no governmental organization
of adequate scope to replace it in directing industrial
production. At the time of surrender, most war industries
were shut down and workers discharged and paid off with
large yen allowances. Much of the industrial labor force
had already fled the urban areas, while shipping and other
services

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 1307,
Sept. 29, 1947
-2-
services had come almost to a complete stop. The tertile
and chemical industries were found almost at a standstill.
Less than 30% of the machinery and metal-working plants
were in operation. Steel production fell likewise, and
reached an all-time low of less than 5,Oo0 tons of rolled
products in October 1945.
Attendant upon the release of several hundred thousand
Korean and Chinese impressed mineworkers, who rioted through-
out mining communities while awaiting repatriation, the coal
mining industry had degenerated into chaos. SCAP, in this
situation, in September 1945, issued Directive No. 3, call-
ing upon the Japanese to maximize production of consumers'
goods and other essentials, and specified a list of some
ten war industries in which production was prohibited. This
was followed later by the designation of a large number of
industrial plants for eventual reparations removals.
Since that time, the inability to import even the
greatly reduced peacetime material requirements of such
commodities as high-grade iron ore, high-grade coking coal,
wood pulp, wool, soy beans, industrial salt, minerals,
hides and skins, and tanning materials has obliged Japan
to subsist on meager stockpiles and her own inadequate re-
sources. Failure of the resumption of a flow of raw
materials sufficient at least to meet Japan's minimum re-
quirements has imposed an insuperable obstacle in the way
of an emergence of a self-supporting economy and, further,
has deprived Japan's neighbors of urgently required manu-
factured products--for Japan still represents the chief
prospective source of fabricated products for the Asiatio
area. Further factors complicating Japan's industrial
recovery have been the critical shortages of food and
consumers' goods and the inflationary price spiral.
Very substantial recovery has taken place since then.
The index of industrial production has risen from a low
point in the fall of 1945 to present levels of approximately
45 calculated upon a base period of the average for the
years 1930-34. This base period is used since it represent
the Far Eastern Commission's appraisal as to what constitutes
normal peacetime requirements. This five-year average in
every case underestimates current peacetime requirements
because of the 20% population increase. The wartime peak
production index was approximately twice the 1930-1934
average.
The major production handicap throughout the Occupation
has been the coal shortage. By the wer's end, Japanese mines
were in an extremely debilitated condition requiring extensive
repairs and replacements as a result of destructive wartime
stripping and grossly inadequate maintenance for many years.
Machinery and tool shortages were, and are, a serious obstaole
to recovery. Replacement of the large numbers of repatriated
Korean

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 1307,
Sept. 29, 1947
一3-
Korean and Chinese laborers who had been impressed into
service in pits constituted a major initial problem.
Although 130, C00 Japanese were recruited as replacements
by spring of 1946, through intensive SCAP and Japanese
Government efforts, labor turnover has been high and
miners relatively unskilled. The decrease in working
hours from ten- and twelve-hour shifts to eight hours
resulted in a much greater loss in working time at the
coal face. Output per worker has fallen from 17 tons per
month for the period 1935-1938 to a present level of about
5.5 tons. Working conditions are the most hazardous of
any major coal-producing country in the world, creating
serious difficulties in maintaining a stable labor force.
Coal output in November 1945 was only 500,000 tons,
only one-tenth of peak wartime production, or less than
the requirements merely to run the railways for one month.
In March 1947, SCaP embarked on a program of restoring the
mines mechanically by greatly increasing deliveries of
machinery and equipment. Output has now risen to the
point where it has been averaging 2,200,000 tons in recent
months. Minimum requirements for a balanced peacetime
economy are well over 3,O00,000 tons monthly. Present pro
duction is largely consumed by transportation, thermal
electric power, gas and coke requirements and at the mines;
industrial users have been obliged to sustain the bulk of
the disparity from normal requirements. In part, the in-
adequate deliveries to industrial consumers results from
the necessary use of domestic coal to replace unobtainable
imports of high-grade coal normally consumed by the iron
and steel and chemical industries. Under these conditions,
it has been impossible to stockpile adequate reserves for
the critical winter months. It is also obvious that any
appreciable rise in coal available for industrial consump-
tion would have immediate salutary effects.
Recovery in iron and steel production has been cri-
tically handicapped by the coal shortage. Steel production
has recovered from practically zero at the outset of the
Occupation to a level of some 90, Co0 tons of ingot per
month, or approxiiately one-third of minimum requirements.
Steel output per unit of coal used is substantially below
normal because of the low quality of iron ore and coal;
this has been further aggravated by the low level of opera-
tion and consequent inefficient use of fuel.
Production of chemicals has been confronted with the
same short supplies as other basic industry, principally
the lack of coal, salt, iron pyrites and, seasonally,
electric power. Production of soda ash and caustic soda,
basic to rayon and many other industries, remains so low
as to constitute a major handicap to recovery. Fertilizer
production has been maximized by SCAP action through con-
centration of production in and channeling of available
materials to a small number of designated efficient plants.
As

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 1307,
Bept. 29, 1947
-4-
As a result, synthetic nitrogen fertilizer produotion
has been quadrupled since early 1946. It is now running
at more than 80% of former peak production but, due to the
loss of imports from Korea, present output meets only some
50% of Japan's calculated requirements.
Shortage of fats and oils is particularly acute in
Japan in view of her dependence on soy beans as a source
and in view of the fact that soy bean imports have been
abysmally low, averaging less than 2o0 tons a month in
1946 compared to more than 75,000 tons a month in the pre-
war period. As a result, the soap, paint, fatty acid, and
similar industries are seriously prejudiced.
The textile industry is the very heart of the Japanese
economy. Japan in pre-war years led the world in volume of
raw silk production, and manufactured cotton and rayon
exports. Failure of these industries thus far to make a
more substantial recovery has depressed the entire Japanese
economy. Raw silk output, while more than doubling since
early 1946, is currently operating at only one-sixth of the
1930 level. The silk industry virtually disappeared during
the war by reason of the inaccessibility of Japan's markets,
and reeling establishments came to a virtual standstill.
Most important, howeyer, this industry, which during its
peak was able to sell annually over $30o millicn worth of
raw silk to the United States, is in effect a casualty to
technological change, namely, the development and widespread
use of synthetics.
Shortages of raw wool have frustrated recovery in the
woolen industry. Production. in 1946 and 1947 has been under
taken on the basis of inventory stocks. However, substantial
capacity is available and resuaption of raw wool imports will
permit a quick rise in productive activity.
Rayon, yarn and fabric output, one of Japan's best pre
war sources of foreign exchange, has been seriously handi-
capped because of deficiencies of caustic soda, rayon pulp,
and coal.
The recovery in cotton textiles has been impressive
even though levels are still depressed. Imports of cotton
from the United States began in June 1946 and the industry
now has some 2.2 million spindles in operation of almost
3 million on hand. This latter figure compares with a pre
war high of 13 million spindles available. Further anti-
cipated cotton imports resulting from the removal of various
financing obstacles should accelerate activity, although the
large number of spindles scrapped uuring the war will impose
a very low production ceiling. In order to alleviate Japan's
need for dollar markets in a dollar-short world, substantial
imports of non-American cotton have been arranged by recent
agreements.
The

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
Enol. to
Tokyo' 1307,
Sept. 29, 1947
-5 -
The production of machinery and mechanical equipment
has been limited by soarce supply of fuel, power, and
minerals. While Japan needs machinery and meohanical
items of every type, production has been concentrated in
accordance with priority programs for the rehabilitation
of coal mines and fertilizer production. Generally, the
machinery production index is about the same as that for
industry as a whole. However, since machinery constitutes
one of Japan's main hopes for replacement of probably
reduced exports in textiles and raw silk, the production
of machinery will necessarily have to be increased relative-
ly more than most other categories.
Generation of electric energy by public utilities since
the Occupation has been above the 1930-34 annual average.
Since the cessation of hostilities, however, there has been
an enormous increase in residential consumption, in part a
consequence of the shortage of charcoal. During the first
five months of 1947, therual power plants produced an
average of 107 million KwH per month to supplement the
monthly average of 2,428 million KWH generated by hydro
plants. Thermal-generated energy was only 4 per cent of
total electric energy. Coal deliveries to the thermal power
plants in the same period are reported to have been 720,000
tons (by contrast, coal deliveries to the iron and steel
industry, the largest industrial consumer of coal, in this
period were 790,O00 tons). Consumption of electric energy
by the primary metals, metals, machinery and tools, and
chemical industries has been disproportionate to the output
of products.
The Chairman, in the last session of the Allied Council,
reported on the reopening of private foreign trade in Japan.
Details were submitted at that time concerning the efforts
by the Supreme Commander to rejuvenate foreign trade as the
indispensable prerequisite to the creation of a stable and
self-supporting economy. It is anticipated that considerable
progress towards securing a more adequate flow of essential
industrial raw materials will be achieved in the coming year.
However, continuing world shortages of those raw materials
and the political and economic disruption prevailing in
Asiatic sources of supply to Japan will not, for some time,
permit the volume of imports required to meet minimum essen-
tial needs.
In conclusion, while it is obvious that industrial
recovery in Japan, in the face of desperate shortages of
materials, has been truly impressive, the desired recovery
can be brought to fruition only with the re-emergence of
normal foreign trade conditions as a result of the treaty
of peace opening the broad avenues of peaceful trade with
all countries.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.95)
Landi E
SECRET
tm to A-5
Hommendug
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: October7 1947
SUBJECT:
Japanese Reparations
PARTICIPANTS:
A-S
Mr. Saltzman
Department of the Army: Mr. Drmper
Mr. Claxton
Mr. Fahey
Mr. Hemmendinger
Lt.Col. Pixton
FE
Lir. Penfield
It. Col.lvestoaer
OE
Mr. Martin
COPIES TO:
8:4.6
ese
1-1688
Mr. Saltzman stated that he desired if possible to have Department of the Army C
approval of the reparations shares proposal. The issue seemed to be principally with
respect to vhether approvsl of reparations shares should await report by Overseas
Consultants Inc. Mr. Saltzman and Lr. Martin pointed out that the levels of int stryC
for interim reparations removals had been worked out by State, War and SCAP more .han!
a year ago and approved b FC. The levels under consideration in FEC 213 would man 
slightly more reparations available. FEC 2l8 was ápproved by State, War and the Stri
Group, which in conferences held at that time withdrew recommendations inconsistent 
with the paper as finally approved. There should not he any prospect of reconsidering
the levels of the interim progrem since FEC 218 vas the frame of reference against
which Overseas Consultants had been instructed to report. Mr. Martin stated that a
reconsideration of the levels involved economic judgments which were outside the
province of engineers.
General Draper referred to the experience in Germany, where levels which he aho
others approved as proper were soon found to be entirely inadequate. .He said he bed
the fecling and others in Tokyo had the feeling that the same situation might easfly
exist in Jepan, particularly with respect to power. Tvo members of Overseas
Consultants were economists who were intended to deal with the overall economic judg-
examine the listings, pursuant to the agreed levels, but stated that it was their
secondary mission to make any other recomnendations which their experience led the 
to think appropriate.
1.10
Martin suggested that Overseas Consultants had been indoctrinated to reach certain
conclusions and had gone out with preconceived ideas. This wes rejected by General
Draper, Col. Pixton and Mr. Fehey. General Draper said that various people in Tokyo
believed that some reparations would be appropriate.
SECRET

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
-2-
Mr. Fehey observed that so far as reparations shares were concerned, the work
in Japan made certain that in any case deliveries would not be made until there was
opportunity to consider the report of the Overseas Consultants. Mr. Saltzman mtated
that the State Department was elso of that opinion, and considered it a sufficiont
reason why the Army Dept. need not oppose a decision on reparations shares at this
time. General Draper agreed, but observed that while most of Overseas Consultants
expected to finish their work by about December 1, the two economist referred to above
might not finish until after the first of the year.
Mr. Saltzman read the proposed statement by General McCoy. General Draper withdrew
his objection to its being made at this time provided the next to the last paragraph
be omitted. lar. Saltzman agreed. General Draper urged, but not as a condition of
the withdrawal of his objection, that a statement be made at the same time that the
U. S. did not intend to use any of its remaining shares for its own benefit. State
members agreed that s statement along those lines ought probably to be made at the
same time.
General Draper also suggested that a definite period be set for the FEC adoption,
at the end of which the proposel vould be withdrawn. Mr. Saltzman agreed to consider it.
NEW SUBJECT: General Draper read a proposed draft cable to SCAP on the subject of
the issuance of an interim directive to SCAP based on SWNCC 236/43. The cable stated
that the paper was making slow progress in FEC and that the Army Dept. considered it
undesirable to press for an interim directive in the circumstances. It further stated
that it was the "view here" that approval of paper on levels of reparations available
should not be sought until after the report of Overseas Consultants. Mr. Saltzman
said that he could not concur in that without serious consideration in the Department.
General Draper referred to a conversetion had by him with Mr. Lovett at which Mr.
Lovett had indicated general approyal of the idee. ir. Saltzman said that he would
discuss the matter in the Department,and would advise General Draper further.
General Draper asked whether the Department of State really would be prepared
Mr. Martin replied that he thought the question could not arise because of the time
schedule involved in listing and allocating plants.
e.c to Cmdr Edelaleni
OE mr mantui
nu Amith
O E BarneSt
FE
NA.
kk
AS:MHENENDNGSECRET

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.94)
pie → Bcfte
NOV13194
RESTRICTED
My dear Mr. Draper:
4.4
You will recall that at the conference of Ostober 28 on Japenese
reparations Mr. Martán referred to the desirability that the Bepart.
ments of the Aray and of State should recsive the Interim Beperts of
Overseas Consultapts, Inc. As was stated in General Willkring's
894.60/
letter of July 28, 1947, to Mr. Petersen, the Department of State is
most anrious that these reports be made available en the same besis 
a
they are made available to scar, and as regularly  possible, in ender
to assist in the formulation of our official position in the fms and
for our general guidance on Japanese economie matters.
I would appreciate it if you could have dispatehed to soap a
cable along the lines of the attached proposed draft on this subjest.
You will also recall that mention was made in the sourse of the
1347
conferenos of the question whether population inorease had been taken
into account in the determination of levels of industry by the mo.
There appears to be a serious misapprehension on this point in Tokyo,
which is revealed by the quotation attributed to Sebald in the mo
Weekly Summary of Information on Japanese Boonomie and Finemeial
Affairs C2-026/42 15 October 1947. Sebald was quoted  stating
before the Allied Coumeil for Japan that the FEC decision to set
Japanese post-war industrial level at 1930-34 was too low besmuse of
failure to allow for population inorease.
I would appreciate it if the substanos of the attached draft
cable on that subjoot could be dispatahed to SCAP:
CS/A
Sincerely yours,
Rev
T.t.
Charles E. Salteman
Assistant Secrstery
Enclosurest
1. Draft cable to sOaP
C
2. Draft cable to sGap
OE
NA
A-S
NOV 15
The Honorable
See onnered blue
RESTRICTED
William H. Draper, Jr.
Under Searetary of the Army
C3
4
7
10/22/47
ws

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.92)
RESTRICTED
DBAIZ GANLE TO SGAP
FEG Weekly Summary of Information on Japenese Beonomie end
Financial Affairs C2-026/42 15 October 1947 contains quote
attributed to Sebald 30 September 1947 before Allied Couno1l for
Japan that FEO decision to set Japan's post-war industrial level
FW
at 1930-34 too low because of alleged failure to allow for
population inorease. This is based upon misapprehension. PEG
78
polioy decision as well as levels of industry now under me
9
consideration take into account population inarsase. Request
0
that correotion be made upon suitable opportamity.
RESTRICTED
F
A-S: JCCEdelstein/dbmcc-R3Smith/gp 10/22/47
Mliemmendinger/dbmcc 10/31/47
Based on propesed State eata
clewd ly OE + WA.
Suth
allison
33+1

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.94)
DRAFT
CABLE TO SCAP
IN ACCORDANCE AGREELENT WITH STATE AT SECRETARIAL LEVEL AT TIME
OF SIGNING OVERSEAS CONSULTATS CCNTRACT REQUEST CORIES INTERIM
REPCRTS CF (VERSEAS CCNSULTANTS BE  ADE AVAILARLE US R MISSION
AND ALSO STATE AND ARMY DEPARTVENTS IN WASHINGTON. IT IS UNDERSTOOD
willbi consedenel here
later
INTERIM REPCRTS  TENTATIVE AID SUBJECT TO OVER-ALL REVISION
when
mnl.
FINAL REPORT

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.88)
RESTRICTED
BRAFT
CAHLE TO SCAP
In accordamce egreement with State at Seeretariel level
at time of signing Orerseas Consultants contrect, request cepies
interim reports of Overseas Consultants be mate available State end
FW
Army Departments in Hashington. Interim reports will be
X
considerad tentative here and subject to later over-all rerisiem
9
when final report made.
0
f
RESTRICTED
3341

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.96)
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
INDICATE
Collect
RESTRICTE
Cherge Department xxx Department of State
Washington
Charge to
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
Tokyo,
relysed
Info: Army Chief of Staff.
For Acting Politi cal Adviser.
REURAD 267 Department wi11 forward any restitution
claims received here from U.S. nationals, with certifica-
tion as to claimants' U.S. nationality, to U.S. Reparations
and Restitution Delegation in Japan, which bears responsi-
bility in this field. All such claims received by you
shoula also be referred to Delegation, which can check cases
doubtful nationality with Department direct.
FEC Weekly Summary of Information on Japanese Economic
and Financial Affairs C2-026/42 15 October 1947 contains
quote attributed to Sebald 30 September 1947 before Allied
Council for Japan that FEC decision to set Japan's post-war
industrial level at 1930-34 too low bedause of alleged fa1lure
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
to allow for population increase. Verbatim minutes not yet
OFFICES ONLY)
received to verify this report but it will be appreciated
such statements, of which there have recently been other
instances by SCAP spokesmen, without prior careful checking
This para benij put
of the
i Wan clh L SCAP
CR CLEARANCE
Gp.S
3262

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.95)
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
INDICATE
Collect
RESTRICTED
Department of State
Charge Department
Washington
Charge to
-2-
of the fa cts may seriously embarrass U.S. Government and
FEC before Japanese and Allied peoples. FEC policy decision
as well as levels of industry now being determined take
into account populationincrease. Suggest consultation
Hodge, U.S.R.& R. Del. on subsequent statements reparations
as he is intimately acquainted FEC and U.S. policy such
matters.
Rovet
(9ns)
LOVETT
(Acting)
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
84
RAY
A-S
OE:RBSmith/gp
10/20-22/47
CR CLEARANCE
NA:RAFearey/hhc
(Ilaoned with
S with by phoaed.

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.96)
Coufidential
A-S
My dear Mr. Draper:
The State Dopartmentts representative on tho Roparetions
Tochnical Advisory Committee in Tokyo has advised us that Overseas
Consultants, Inc., now at work in Tokyo, is regularly submitting to
SCAP interim reports on the findings of the mission.
These reports
have not been made available to State Department personnel in Tokyo nor,
as far as we know, have any copies been forwarded to us through the
pepartmept of the Army.   e mde tale
to  ule T.
It was spdcifically provided in the exchange of correspondence
F
M
between Assistant Secretary of War Howard C. Petersen and my predecessor,
Assistant Secretary of State Hilldring, that these interim reports would
be made available to the State Department. Secretary Hilldring's letter
of July 28 to Secretary Petersen confirming a verbal agreement as to the
scope of operations of Overseas Consultants, Inc., stated:
"You suggested in one of your communications to me that the
interin reports of the Corporation will be made available to the War
and State Departments in order to facilitate our consideration of the
level of industry and allied matters in the period prior to the submission
of the final report of the Corporation. The State Department is most
anxious that these reports be made available on the same basis as they
are made available to SCAP, and as regularly as possible, in order t
assist in the formation of our official position in FEC for the guidance
V1310
of our general consideration of Japanese economic matters including
reparations."
It would be appreciated if the Department of the Army would issue
the necessary instructions so that these reports could be studied in con-
junction with our continuing reviews of the Japanese situation and for
the other purposes stated in Secretary Hilldring's letter. A draft cable
to SCaP is attached. I would appreciate your advising me if this cable
CE
1.
is satisfactory.
Sincerely yours,
The Honorable
William H. Draper, Jr.
Charles E. Saltzman
Under Secretary of the Army
Assistant Secretary

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.93)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
Jamuery 12, 1948
U - Mr. Lovett:
The attached letter to General Draper on
Japanese reparations hes been entirely redrafted
since you saw it last week, and was approved by
Mr. Saltzman before he left for Ohio last week.
My
We have followed the exact language of
General Draper's letter in stating that it is
not onpose the finalizing by the Far Eastern
Commission of the reparations levels, pending
the report of Overseas Consultants, Inc. The
Department is in fact actually seeking finaliza-
tion, although a decision is not imminent.
mk
7SWisner
2
egra
15
F. G. Wisner
Mi saltyman
Attachment:
Proposed letter to
General Draper.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.94)
SECRET
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
Jan.7,1978
U - Mr. Lovett
Nisproue.
Subject:
Army Department's Proposal that Level of Industry
egotiations for Japan be Suspended rending keport of
Overseas Consultants Inc.
I submit herewith for your signature a letter to General Draper in reply
to his letter of .ovember z0 on the above subject. This letter has the
concurrence of IE, NA, AT, UE, and OE.
Your sttenticn is invited to the opening paragruphs of general Draper's
The proposed reply vicorously rejects the suggestion made by the Department
of the .ry that eirorts to reach a decision in the EC on the industrial facili
ties wicl. re to be available for removal as reparations be suspended until
there iss been opportunity to consider the reports of overseas Consultants Inc.
824.60/11-2047
The reasons ror this strong position are set forth at length in the letter.
I thirk: i should enphesize, however, as a matter of background, that Overseas
Consultants Inc. Was retained by the War Department primarily to advise the
Supreme Conznander vit. respect to the actual selection of plents under agreed
levels. after the first report mace by the strilke Group, which culminated in
the complevte agreement by tate, r, C and strike as to the united States
position cn levels of industries, CA felt tnat he coulà not rely on the
actual designations or ylants which had been mace by his starf. He proposed,
therefore, that a tecmical ission be orgunized to review the listings to
make sure tnet no eri.us mistakes were being made. The Department of State
us not officially consulted in this matter. he Department had nothing to
do with the execution of the contract with Overseas Consultants Inc., and
was surprised after the event to see the scope of activity which the contract
ave to ocI. he Department sugested amendment, wrich was in substance
accepted by vhe letter of July 24 from r. retersen to Jeneral Hillaring,
22
attacned to the present letter to General Lraper. The Department has never
1.1
agreed that the prinnry mission or even a substantial secondary mission of
CCI was to review the levels of availabilities wiich had been previously
agreeu. It is su gestea tiat to give primary importance to this aspect of
CCI's reports is not only to reopen without aderuate cause cuestions of polic.
w. ich were settled, and many of which ere elready the subject of FEC cecisions
but is slso to give to a non-governmental technical agency advisory funetions
b
with respect to policy which were not intended anc which it is not peculiarly
ritted to aischarge.
Cuo.
60/11-201
Charles  Saltzman
SECRE

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE SECRETARY
November 25, 1947
A-S - Mr. Wisner
Mr. Lovett has not yet
seen the attached. Would
you please ha ve a reply
prepared for his signature?
NOV 281047
S/S:RH
SALTZMAN
3768

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.94)
Return to A-
SECRET
JAN 1 3 1948
Dear Mr. Draper:
The Department of State has earefully emsined the Japasese
84.
It is the view of the Departwent of State, as indleated in your
.60
2047
a milateral direstive based en smm0 26/43 at this time.
The Department will ceasider any reessmendatiens made by 0et
reparatiens frem Japan.
Any doubts as to the wisdem of the 1ovels set out in sce 236
whish are met sapperted by cemelusive fastaal evidenee are sstweighe
geveraments interested in Japenese reparatiens; and by the safeguerd
provide
X
The Menerable
William I. Dreper, Jr.,
Uader Seerotary of the Army.
SECRET

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.91)
SECRET
-2-
fasilities roquired to meet the meods of the seeupations and to the
antherity emplisitly granted to scap to emsept frem alaim feedlitded
sultable and new nesessary fer the mamxfestere of fartilisere:
Netwithstanding the feregeing pesitien, it is heped that the
repert of c0I will be available soem se that the detaile oem be fally
eal level, and se that this Government ean supply estimates ef the
astual velwse of industrial equipment likely te be evailable fer re-
moval in eaek eategery ef industry on whieh the me has ssted. The
infermation whish the ocI is obtaining as its prinsipal missiem is
indispensable fer sush estimates, whish the members ef the Fme are
anxious to reseive.
Sineerely yours,
8/8
JAN 13948
ep
AS 4121
wot
AxSN0na1kxar1k0012X297x08×(010arad xbyxxxco000x(akeddy
xx8/48 oMart1nxx8m1ttg00RonattxoRenfhtx
OE: RBSmith
FE
NA AT A-S UE
OE:RWBarnett:evc
A-S:NHemmendinger:1k
12/10/47 - 12/29/47
(see attached blue for con-
C FS/wr
1/2/48
currence)
1/10/48
SECRET

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
0
A-S
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY
WASHINGTON, D. C.
FE
20 Novemb
NOV 25 1947
Honorable Robert A. Lovett
Under Secretary of State
DC/R
Department of State
Washington 25, D. C.
Dear Mr. Lovett:
Sone weeks ago you, Segretary Royall and I discussed at lunch
the reparations studies that are being made in Japan by the Over
894.60/11-2047
seas Consultants Inc. Overseas Consultants Inc. as their first
priority assignment are determining the capacities of the several
reparations industries, and in addition were asked to point out
any errors in the contemplated levels of industry which they con-
sider should be modified.
I mentioned to you that General Saltzman and I had had lunch
with General McCoy a few days before and had discussed the desira-
bility of no action being taken by the Far Eastern Commission on
reparations levels until after the Overseas Consultants' report and
its recommendations were available for study here. My recollection
is that you agreed with this suggestion and also you did not think
it necessary to withdraw the present SWNCC paper now before FEC,
inasmuch as action would be unlikely anyway and General McCoy could
appropriately delay action if necessary.
On the 25th of August an agreement was reached between the
State and Army Departments that after the lapse of 60 days a decision
would be made as to whether or not a unilateral directive based on
A/JB
SWNCC 236/43 would be issued to General MacArthur. General MacArthur
was informed of this agreement. On 25 October when no final decision
on this subject had been made, the following cable for General Mac-
Arthur was drafted and was sent to the State Department for concurrence:
"CINCFE
"1. Re ourad W85285 (Aug) policy decision by FEC on con-
894.
tent of SWNCC 236/43 has not been possible by 25 Oct. and there is
little prospect for substantive reparations agreements in near future.
"2. In view of present OCI expert study now being made we
will not press further for final policy decision on reparations levels
until after the OCi report and its recommendations are available, the
view here being that a final U.S. position would be unwise until OCI
2047
recommendations can be given consideration."
3768

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
This draft cable was sent to the State Department shortly after
our conversation. I have since been informed that the State Depart-
ment does not wish to send this cable and that the State Dspartment
would not oppose FEC finalizing the reparations levels pending
receipt of the report in question.
The Department of the Army considers that such action would be
contrary to the best interests of the United States, since there is
a real question whether the proposed levels could result in a self-
supporting Japanese economy and that, in any case, no final action
should be taken or even considered until the report and its recom-
mendations are available. I had thought your views were in accord-
ance with ours in this matter and would appreciate your comment on
it. We still believe that some such cable should be dispatched.
Sincerely yours,
William H. Draper, Jr.
Under Secretary of the Army
SECRET

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.95)
DC/R
9p8
2547
Subjeot:
Industrial Disarmament and
Eoonomio Control of Japan.
The Department of State Member of the State-
Army-Navy-Air Force Coordinating Committee requests
xR
that SWNCC 52/25/D "Industrial Disarmament and
894.60/11-2547
894.50
Economic Control of Japan", be withdrawn from
consideration by the Committee in view of the faot
that the SANACo 302 series, now under considera-
tion by the Committee, duplioates its oontents.
Charles E. Saltzman
State Department Member
State-Army-Navy-Air Foroe
Coordinating Committee
(Note clearances on attached blue)
m<
A-S:JPGEiner:bco
11/21/47

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.87)
SECRE
NOV 1719
In reply refer to
OE
MEMOHANDUN POR THE BECRETARY, SANACC:
Subject: Industrial Disarmament and Eeomomie
Control of Japan.
The Department of State Member of the State-Aray-Navy-
Air Foroe Coordinating Committee requests the Jotat Chiefe
of staff to withdraw from consideration by sAnacc, swxco
52/25/D "Industrial Disarmament and Econemio Control of
Japan". The SANACc 302 series, whieh 1s under considera-
tion by SANAcc, duplieates the contents of sWnC0 S2/28/D.
Charles E. Saltsman
State Member
State-Army-Mavy-Air Foree
Coordinating Committee
,5F
127
8
1
NOV 17
347 P.M.
SECR
118
( leared by pbre
RAY
L-7
Ted Fisher) 
OE:RHFisher:el
10/22/47
NA
353
(sse inistials
on discarted
(u)

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.89)
1757
SECRET
Classification approved bys
Name: P
Col.52,
In reply refer to
DATE:
MENGNLANDUM POR THE SEGRETARY, SANAGG:
Subjeet: Industrial Bisarmement and Becmemie Gentrel
of Japan.
The Departmeat of State Nember of the State-kray-Keny-Air Feree
Goordinating Gemmittee wishes to request the Jeist Chiafe of Staff to
withdrew frem estive cemeideratiem by saa00, sanac0 52/as/a "Indms-
trial Disaramment and Heonsnte Gentrel of Japen". The Saña0s 302 series,
which is uader consideration by sañaoc, duplleates the coatente ef aasase
52/a5/D. Per this reasen the withdramal es the latter peper ts re-
quested.
Cherles E. Saltemem
State Nember
State-kray-Kevy-kir Feree
Goerdimating Gommittee
OE:RHFisher:el
10/22/47
NA
Jishr
(Clhared by Mr. Barn)
SECRET

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
A-S4
ASIA
N
TO
: A-S Mr Claxton
DATE: December 2, 1947
SUBJECT: SWNCC 236/50.
I recommend approval or the attached paper SWNCc 236/50 with the
amendments which are intended merely to clarify the original intent ndicated
and to confarm to ANACC 236/52 since introduced.
This paper already received full State Department approval when it was
under consideration by the sub-committee for the rer East.
The object of the paper is to settle uestions relating to reparations
from Japan not dealt with in previous papers. In general it covers the following
points:
(1) The reparations shares which are settled upon for industrial
assets shall be applied to all otier categories of assets made available for
16
reparations, except merchant shipping.
(2) Reparations receipts shall be considered compensation for all
governmental claims ageinst Japan arising out of the war which are compensible
from assets within Japan except:
(a) restitution identifiable looted property.
(b) claims relating to Government property treated as enemy
property by Japan during the war.
e
(c) occupation costs.
R
(3) Japanese external assets in countries at war with Japan and Kored
to be retained there.
(4) Reparations claims by non-FEC countries at war with Japan, but not
actively, to be satisfied from Japanese external assets in those countries and
from sucn other categories as may be made available.
(5) Non- EC countries actively at war with Japan to be awarded national
percentages applicable to assets availavle for apportionment as reparations to
rzC countries.
BECRET
3323
3247

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.90)
23
DO/T TRAFFIC SECTION
0
DEC 10 12 55 PM 1947
DIV  CHPIED AR AS
RS
11947
DEPARIMLNI OI SLATE
WU T135 DL PD
12
De/k bile
CD NEWYORK NY DEC 10 122OP
ROSWELL H WHITMAN, ASST CHIEF OFFICE OF OCCUPIED AREAS
1047
NOI
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS DEPT OF STATE
PRESS DESPATCH FROM TOKIO DECEMBER 1O REPORTS ENACTMENT OF
NUMEROUS JAPANESE LAWS DEALING WITH COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY.
PLEASE ADVISE WHEN COPIES OF SUCH LAWS IN ENGLISH CAN BE
MADE AVAILABLE TO THE COUNCIL
CS/A
E L BEHR JR VICE PRESIDENT NATIONAL FOREIGN TRADE
FILED
N
COUNCIL INC
10
1253P
4101
Rov
Ca:
/indust
89460
ER
1dest Dec 
N
10
tery Ewen
12
21
to Gill as
billa
entimeduciolt will

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.86)
DEC151947
In reply refur to
B
894.60/12-1047
My dear Mr. Bakens
Wo are replying to your telegram of Deosmber 10 by lettes.
We assume that tihe press despateh from Tekyo of Desember 10,
which prompted your telegras, reperted the passage hy the Japamess
dist of the industrial desenoentration bill. The tert of this law
as enacted and the English translation thereef are net yet availakle
to this effice. However, we will plam to make cepies availakle te
you as soon as received.
Sincerely yours,
PAN
DCR - P Unit
4..al
Reswell N. Waitn
CS/A
¿ov.
912
Asting Chief
Jat.
Division of Oosupied Aress
H1x
Moomomie Affaire
Dist.
Mr. E. L. Behr, Jr.,
BC
15
Vice President,
Mational Fereign Trade Couneil Inc.,
N
6
Now York, Now York.
signe
0
181
QE: R ge: bob
12/12/47
0
4

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.94)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
NORTHEST ASAN AFFAIRS
JAN - 6 1948
DEPARINENI IC SEAS 12, 1947.
No. 1446
—c/R
UNCLASSIFIED
Subject: Limitations upon the Powers of the Japanese Industrial
Recovery Corporation.
The Acting Politicel Adviser has the honor to enclose five
894.60/12-1247
copies of a directive to the Japanese Government issued by this
Headquarters (SCAPIN 1826) dated November 24, 1947 setting forth
certain limitátions upon the powers of the Industrial Recovery Cor-
poration (Sangyo Fukko Kodan) which was established by Law No. 46
7E
of 1946, October 21, 946, as amendod on Apr11 15, 1947.
38
Enclosure:
02.19
GHQ, SCAP, directive
(SCAPIN 1826), November
24, 1947, concerning
the Industrial Recovery
Corporation.
Original and osalid to the Dopartment.
14 Di c
701.3/711.3
RHBushner/cjl
CSA
FILED

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDERFOR THE ALLIED POWERS
AG 004(24 NOV 47)ESS/CCC
APO 500
(SCAPIN
1826
24 November 1947
MEMORANDUM FOR: JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
THROUGH:
The Central Liaison Office, Tokyo
SUBJECT:
Industrial Recovery Corporation (Sangvo
Fukko Kodan)
1. References are:
a. Memorandum for the Japanese Government,
from General Heedouarters, Sunreme Commander f'or the
All1ed Powers, f11e AG O04(1 Nov 46)ESS/IN, (SCAPIN 1308),
dated 1 November 19l6, subject: Industrial Recovery Cor-
poration.
b. Law No. l6 of 19l46 of the Japenese Government,
dated 21 October 19l6, subject: Sangyo Fukko Bidan Bill, as
amended by Law No. 57 of 19l7 of the Jananese Government,
dated 15 April 19l:7, subject: Sangyo Fukko Kodan Bill.
2. Reference 1 a above is revoked.
3. In administering reference 1 b above; the Japanese
Government will comply with the following provisions:
a. The Industrial Recovery Corporation shall dis-
nose of, with the approval of the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers, any interest it holds or may hold in any plant
or facility. This paragraph shall not prohibit the hoiding
of any interest acouired under paragraph 3 c below.
b. The Industrial Recovery Corporation shall have
no direct or indirect control over management or operation
of any private enterprise, either by agreement with the com-
pany or ctherwire. The Japanese Govemment shall declare
invalid and inoperative any agreement or understanding for
approval on the part of the Industrial Recovery Corporation
or of any officer or employee thereof, of the appointment of
any company officiel or of any act of the company.
c. When existing comnercial and financial channels
are not adequate to effect a program to rehabilitate or expand

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
BASIC: Momo to JG (SCAPIN 1826 )
a cricical industry, the Japanese Government will roqu
the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers to approvo
a program as a designated rehabilitation program. If
gram is so approved, the Industrial Recovery Corporation
procure and lease or resell to private industry the equlp
ment end facilities necessary to effect such a designated
program. The Industrial Recovery Corporation will in no
event be the sole agency for the procuring of such equipment
and facilities. The Industrial Recovery Corporation shall
not in any event procure facilities and equipment except as
provided above.
d. The Economic Stabilization Boerd may authorize
the Industrial Recovery Corporation to acquire and sell the
following goods in accordance with the directions and pro-
grams of the Economic Stabilization Board:
(1) Any goods acquired by the Japenese Govern-
ment in eccordance with Economic Stabiliza-
tion Board procedures for confiscation or
for the redistribution of excessive inven-
tories which do not come under jurisdiction.
of any other agency, or goods for which the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
hoids the Japanese Government responsible
for redistribution within the civilian econ-
omy.
(2)
Goods to be distributed under a program of
the Economic Stabilization Board for the
rehabilitation of Japanese industry, where
the goods cannot be distributed pursuant to
such program without purchase by the Japa-
nese Government and providing appropria-
tions are made by the Diet for such govern-
mental purchases.
e The Industrial Recovery Corporation will dispose
of no goods under control without complying with the appro-
priate ordinance relative to allocations, rationing, and/or
prioe control. Consistent with these controls, the Indus-
trial Recovery Corporation shall establish a procedure for
fair competitive bidding, auctioning of materials, or sale
by lottery, end shall, except where otherwise directed by
the Economic Stabilization Board, provide a reasonable time
and notice of any sale of goods.
2

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.96)
BASIC: Memo to JG (SCAPIN 1826 )
f. Except for the vowers specifically numerated
above, the Industrial Recovery Corporation will engage in
no activities without the assent of the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers.
g. The salaries of the officers and directors will
be made public.
h. Adequate representation of middle-sized and
small husiness will be included on the Board of Directors.
FOR THE SUPREME COMMANDER:
R. M. LI
Colonel
Adjutant Genral.

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.98)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECOROS
FROM
3725
LONDOR
DATED December 17, 1947
RECD. Dec. 23, 1947
UNCLASSIFIED
8:33
3
A
Secretary of State,
ACTION DC/L
INPO
Washington
DC/R
UE
A-2566, December17 , 1947
EUR
PE
Following questions and answers in regard to the
ITP
revival and rehabilitatior in Japan of the china and
4.60/12
OCD
earthenware industry exchanged in House of Commons on
CIA
December 16, 1947:-
FC
XR
OIE
Mr. A. Edward Davies (Labor M.P. for Burslem)
asked the President of the Board of Trade if he is
894.4036
aware to what extent the china and earthenware
induatry is being revived and rehabilitated in Japan
under General HacArthur's direotion; what quantities
47
are being exported; and to which countries.
Hr. Belcher (Parliamentary Secretary, Board of
2
Trade): "I am Informed that the capacity of this
3
industry 1s nearly as high as before the war, but
that the capacity now in use is only one quarter
of the pre-war figure. Complete figures of quan-
tities exported are not available, but up to 3lat
August last the chief destirations rocorded were
the United States, the I.etherlands East Indies and,
to a less extent, hong Kong and Singapore."
Mr. Davies: "Is regard being paid to trade
unior: conditions and to sone of the malpractices
which were associated with the manufacture of pottery
with which we had to compete before the war, and is
my hon. Friond aware that we are already meeting
serious competition in Canada?"
0
E
C
Lr. Belcher: "I am afraid that we have no 
control over trade unior: conditiors or any othero
corditions in those countries."

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.96)
U:CLASSIFIED
rage 2.
A-2566
December 17, 1947
from London
Mr. Scollan (Iabor I.P. for Renfrew, W.):
"Is uny part or thia export from Japai. to the United
States tazer as reparations?"
fr. Belchar: "I would roquire notice of that
question, but I do not think so."
r. Orr-Ewin (Conservative M.P. for Weston-
super- are): "ould the Minister inquire whether
production is beiis carried put under labour oon-
ditions governed by an International Labour Office
Convontion? Ia it nct important that we should
know that?"
Mr. Bel.cher: "That seems to me to be quite
a differont question."
D:UHLAS
Copy to U.S. Political Adviser, SCA?, Tokyo
EFDrumright/w

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
Office Memorandum
TED STATES GOVERNMENT
A-S
TO
: A-S, Mr. Wisner
DATE: December 16, 1947
DEC 1 8 1947
FROM : OE, Mr. Whitman
 SALTZMAN
SUBJECT: Comments on OCI Interim Rep
ary War Facilities in Japan
In reviewing the above reports I was amazed to note that CI could
recommend deletion of a total of 300 plants from the list of 657 plants
which ESs had listed as arsenals, aircreft plants and privately owned
munitions plants. A recommendation, in particular, that 67 plants
8
acknowledged by CI itself to be properly classified as "primary war
16
facilities", should be retained in Japan for the benefit of the Japanese
f
economy is so clearly contrary to agreed U. S. and FEC policy that it is
inconceivable that CI could have grasped the nature of its instruotions
or of U. S. commitments to other governments. That recommendation, of
course, cannot possibly be accepted by SCAP as a basis for implementation
of policies which now guide him.
Although approved FEC policy (FEC-O84/21) authorizes SCAP to excopt
temporarily from destruction or removal particular primary war facilities,
-1647
secondary war facilities and facilities in war-supporting industries, in
so far as such facilities are required to meet the needs of the ocoupatior
this authorization cannot be considered as permitting permnent retention
of facilities otherwise eligible for removal. These plants must remin
subject to reparations claim, though their removal may be deferred tempo-
rarily while they are engaged in production essential to the occupation.
CI attempts to justify retention of these plants on the ground
that their production is particularly important and their management
especially able. The efforts of these plants to achieve recognition for
ability is, however, doubtless due to the owners' realization that their
property is certain to be removed or destroyed unless they are able to
persuade allied authorities to give them special consideration. It is
well recognized that Japanese economic recovery is being retarded by
shortages of rew materials and fuel, and not by lack of sufficient
productive capacity. It is probable that if the present supply of raw
materials were not distributed for the ulterior purposes suggested above,
other plants, not primary war facilities, might actually increase in
productivity.
I note that the list of primary war plants recommended for retention
in Japan (Appendix D) includes a considerable number of Zaibatsu plants
(including 8 Mitsubishi plants and 7 Nakajima plants, aside from sub-
sidiaries). Approved FEC policy (FEC-O91/7) requires that SCAP, in
selecting specific plants for reparations removals, should give consider-
ation to "the occupation policies of dissolving large industrial and
banking corporations which have exercised control over a great part of
Japanese trade and industry".
CONFIDENTIAL
OCI
4080

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
OCI recommenda the deletion of 153 plants on the grounds that
they do not conform to the criteria for "primry war facilities" laid
down in SWNCC 236/43, and concurs in ESS recommendations for deletion
of an additional 80 plants for reasons not stated in these reports.
It is suggested that OCI be informed of the necessity for providing
justification for these recommendations in sufficient detail to enable
SCAp to support each deletion against the queries which will undoubtedly
be raised in every case.
SGK
OE:SGKall1s/cmb
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET
S/s
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
AS
WASHINGTON, D. C.
OF
FE
CRETARY
348
D1K
MAN
The Honorable Robert A. Lovett
STÁTE
The Under Secretary of State
The Department of State
Washington 25, D. C.
91948
11-2047
894.60/1-1248
Dear Mr. Lovett:
You will recall that in my letter to you of 20 November 1947.
I pointed out that it is the view of the Department of the Army
that there should be no final Far Eastern Commission determination
of reparations levels for Japan prior to receipt and study of the
report of the Overseas Consultants. Inc. I understand that TEC
consideration of the SWNCC study on the Level of Economic Life in
Japan (SWNCC 236/43) has already progressed to the extent that a
paper on this subject (SC-242/19) has actually been placed on the
agenda of the Steering Committee.
The Department of the Army requests that the U.S. member on
the Steering Committee of the FEC be instructed to vote against
fina action on any FEC paper on this subject until the report
and recommendations of the Overseas Consultants, Inc., have been
received and evaluated by the U.S. Government.
A-EP
Mreeiam H. Hraper
Sincerely,
William H. Draper, Jr.
Under Secretary of the Army
DOR-CLAIMS ONIT
EP(daltu)
DECLASSIFIED
SEODET
E.O. 11652, Sec. 3(E) and 5(D) or (E)
SECRET
NND760044
1975
By CD./MT NARS. Date SEP 8

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.93)
894.60/1-
Dear Mr. Draper:
Ny reply to your letter of Novomber 20, 1947 was
sent on January 13, 1948, thus erossing your letter of
January 12, 1948 which reiterates the viewe of the De-
partment of the Army on the treatment of swncc sse/4s
In the Far Kastern Commismion. The viows of the Depars-
ment of state regarding final determination of reparatioms
levels for Japan are set forth in my letter of January 18.
1248
It does not now appear likely that the U.S. member
of the Far Kastern Commission will be required te take
a final position on this matter in the near future.
There should be ample time for review of any recommenda-
ticns Overseas Consultants, Ino. may make on the present
U.S. proposed levels.
However, I am asking General MeCoy to keep us im
formed of the progress of PEC aotion so that the State
Department can review our position in case this besomes
CR
neeessary before action is taken on the Overseas Consul-
tants' report.
In this conneotion I hope you will do what you ean
to see that their report, when received, is available
for prompt examination.
1
1
Sincerely yours,
CS/
<
Under Searetary
8.8
1948
The Honorable
William H. Draper, Jr.,
Under Searetary of the Army,
Department of the Army.
OE:RNBarnott:RBSmith/cmb/1-16-48
A-8:NHommondinger:1k 1/19/48
OE:EMMart1n:bfo 1/30/48
1104/
Bond b, "
OH
NA
A-B
八
4740

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISION OF
UNITED STATES POLITICANCRWURASIAN AFFAMS
FOR JAPAN
FEB - + 1948
10. 48
DAYAnIMENT OF STATE
MAR 22 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
Tokyo, Japan, January 21, 194e
23
Subject: Tranamittal of Japanese Laws Concerning the Industrial
Recovory Corporation. NILRNATIONAL RESOUnGES DIVISIL.
encatt
8 JAN 0 A
MAR 24 1948
 OF ATE
FE
894.60/12148
CPED IRLEOF
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to refer to this
Mission's despatch No. 1446 of December 12, 1947 concerning
limitations upon powers of the Japanese Industrial Recovery
Corporation, and to enclose one copy each in Japanese of two
ACTION
laws concerning the Corporation (Law No. 46 of 1946, October 21,
1948, and Law No. 57 of 1947, April 15, 1947, an amendment there-
COPIES
to). There are also enclosed four copies each of translations
ro:
thereof prepared by the Japanese Government.
CP
ED
GT
MAR 20 1948
TREATY BRANCH
Enclosures:
Law No. 46 of 1946,
DIVIS ON OF OCCUPIFS
in original Japanese
(single copy).
ECONOMIC
2.
Law No. 46 of 1946,
in English translation
1948
(4 copies).
3.
Law No. 57 of 1947,
in original Japanese
(single copy).
Law No. 57 of 1947,
in English translation
(4 copies).
original and ozalid to Department.
860
RHBushnor/blé j/6
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.81)
Law No. 46
Law corceruing the inaustrial teconstruction
corporation
ter 1
eneral rovisiens
irtiel . e ustri necruln rporetion shal
nve,  , uizo of
industriel ep ats  to s  oe to promote the
peedy robolit ti   sty in accoraance with
the ousie pollles nrae  ee u the presldent of
te conon ie
ine nausri o on shali  a
juricacal pereo.
rtiel e.re aud triel econ or vt n corporatton snall have
is  
ln receivin the
r ortalsnits anch
offices n the e
 estubiisument are
nssary.
Artice
struction corporation
sneii be 
Articlevemustria Reconstruction
cororatin i
Article  oe pndustrlar veconstruction sorporation snall provide
To  rrtl  s or rporation
1.
2.109 
3. the location of its officeu;
4.atters relatin to tne  unt of its vapitel;
2. atters rolatine to the pcicclpai officers;

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.88)
-2-
6. batters relating to its business; and managoment
7.
Matters as to its account;
8. The method of ublic notice.
In cases where the ap roval of the Government has
been ootained the krticres ot corporation may be changed.
Article o. ine nduatriar scetstrucuion vorporation must, in
accordance  itn sue provlsions or tne mperial ordinance,
be registered.
The mattere ceordanee with the
provision or trereceoca an ne set up against
third person o ea  s wbs ave peen registerod.
Article /. he pndustr st rpoption shall be
exempted froa tn lpesitn or tns tcome Pax, the Juridioal
erson rax and tne pusin ax.
Joxye, nolkaldo,  rlsceces, cities, towns and villages
or the other puulie su ot  by lews way not impos
eny of the Local  n  ne taxins of toe Ladustrial
neconstruction sor or v.r poed, uowever, that this
provisi n shell not a a ere the approval of t
inister ror some roi  teiniste or sinance been
octsinea under sycciar clrcsstences.
articis . in sase  u tcie ccucion corporatlon h
made reglstratisn as e ar: the ecquls tien of title concern-
ine reel estate or the ualnteunnce of ve tiule thereof for the
conouct of tne susiness es r scrlced n ten 1 or item 2.
Article I., the anount or the re lsuration tax shall oe
Fixcr s me-halr trcusandtes of the value of the real estate.
rrticle .  eny cause of uissolition of the ndustrial xeconstruo
tion or oration arises une rocedure of
dissolution of

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.93)
the corporation shall be specially provieedmhyol
The provisions of Articles 44, 30, 54 and 57  
Civil oce as weil as article 35. rar. 1. of the Law of
Noncontentions -roceaure shell apply witn the necessary
modifications t the ndustriel neconstruction Corr ration.
Article lo. any persou otuer thsn the industrial neconstruct
Corporation stall not  callen the ustrial deconstruc
tion Corporation, ana alse may sot use similar names.
Chapter 11
Principal Officers.
Article 1l. the industrial neconduruction Corporation shall p
13
a Chairman and a vice-cnairman of tue soard of Directors
more than two Directors and one or wore auditors.
The Chairman or t voard or irectors shall ropresent
the industrial vecossb uetion vorporation ene enall exercise
general supervision over its arfairs.
The Vice-chairman Snail, in accordance with the provisions
of the Articies or Jor oration, represent the indmstrial
Reconstruction vor uraslon, ane shall assist tne Chairman.
and take chargs ot ali te artmeuis of the business of the
Corporation. n ce the uhairman is unable to discharge
his duties, the vice-cnairman snall act  nis deputy, and
whenever the office ot hairmen is vacant, tue Vice-chairman
shall exercise nis duties.
The Direetors shall, n sccord mce witn the provisions
of the rticles of incurporetion, represent the industriel
leconstruction or ora ion une suall assist the chairmon
and the Vice-chairman, and cake charge of the busines of the
Corporation. in case oott of the uhairman and the Vic

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.92)
- 4 -
chairman of the Soard of Directors are unable to di
their duties, the virectors shall, in accordance wi
provisions of the Articles of corporation, act am thmir
deputy and whenever vote of the ofrices of hairman and
Vice-choirman are vcant, tne irectors shall exeraizo thoir
duties.
The ue tors suail inspect the susiness of the indu-
strial teconstruction vcr.urstion.
Article 12. The Cgairman, vice-c a rman, irectors and kuditors
snall be ap ointeo cy tne uovermaent.
The term of offiee ci the hairman, vice-chairman and
Directcrs suall be tnree vears respectively, and that of
auditors shall be two years.
Article 13. rhe chairman, vice-culirman, and Directors may, in duo
sccordance with the rovisions of the irticlee of corpore
tion, appoint a deputy who nes the autuority to meise on
benalf of the principals all the ncts in ana out of w
Court relating to the business o: the main and branch office
of the indusurial peconstruction oorporatlon.
Article 14. The vnairdan,  lee-cmairman sni sirectors may not,
durin their verm  ore, en  in eny otner busines
or profession.
Chapter l1x
Jusiness.
Articlo rs. re ndustsisi ecenstruetron Jorporation shall
execute, under tne suidance and supervision of the competent
I inister, tle followin businesses in conformity witn the
basic ricies, and plans esteblished by the rresident of

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.92)
the conomic tabilization Board.
a) construct on of industrial quipment and lease or
of such equi ment when needed in the execution of the
promram made y the rresident of the conomic Stabilim
tion soaru.
b) The acguisiuion of industrial equipment and materials
and subsequent lease or sale or suon equipment and material
when needed in vae vxecut on or tne rogre made by the
resident of tne sconc ic tabilizatlon Board.
c) The determanation or lease-mulders or buyers of faciliie
or materials i the poseess on of vue industrial squipmont
Corporation in -ccsrlance vit che progran made by the
rresident of tne convle tsolni avion coard.
Article 16. Ihe industrial ecuastrucvaon corporation snall, at
Opening of its ousiness, rix une prscudure of its busino
and obtain the aprovu. or the comp tent u iuister as to that
procedure and if tue or at sesires to make any altere
tion in the above-montionme rocudure same steps shall be
taken.
Article 17. industrial sconstruction orporation shall, in the
beginnin. of eacn business yeer, luy a ousiness plan and
obtain the appreval s cue ccspetent sinlecer.
if the or oravicn cesires to mace any alteration in
the said plan, the sra sto, s snell ce taken.
Article 18. Funds necessary co carry out the provision of Article
15 ahall be obtaineu tnrougn tne leconstructlon Finance Cor
poration under the londing regulat ons of tnat agancy.
The industrial coconstruction corporation, notwithetanding

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.84)
-6-
the fore oing provlsions, ay obtain funds po
the neconeiruction Finance corporation from souroe
tnan tne saiu oran. ne inuustrial Reconatr
0
poration nay not maxe aplicatrons ror funds  tipula
in thececeon t ras ne. fter ril 2. 19
1
Articie 1). The pue ness yeir c the udustrial Reconstruotion
Corporation enan. oe uvery yeur from april to maron of tho
foliowin yeir.
Article 2.e noustricton ororation shll 
beinnins of eacn  e m an inventory, dr
a alance sneet aad a puit  ross account, and hll
report to the competent inis er ahd uotain tre approval.
witnin to montns te the oin o ach busines yoar.
in case te sanc   seen utained in acordane
with the provis:ons or tne,recedine paragraph the Industrial
ctothbl 
inventory, the bai  sreet a tue profit and lo mcount.
and sul lurtner posit  oove document montioned at
its eacric.
Articie 21.t ajustri csastruction orporation l not
dispose ot n sur tus Funt aloit the approval of the
covernmer.
cnater v
uoveraent upurvision.
Article 22. he co etent sinister may, if ne deems it mocesary.

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.84)
- 7-
order the industrial reconstruction Corporation
havine tue Lesse of equipment or the materials frem
Corporation to reyort or h ve the coupetent officiale
an official s srch and examine tue situation of busine
pooka, docunents or any othet decessary articlos.
 ce peten otficiale institute h
oflicie. uxet o e to the preacriptio o
the preces , e  ve tuem carry the im
tin festet ccordin toi
of crdinarce.
Article 23. Phe ctri cotrton corporation sll k
the regulstiene concerin t. allowances of the prinoipal.
officers d sitsetent inister for pprol.
The some rule sali ai t, t case or its altoration.
Ine industrial conssructico sorporation saall, upon
evi aveltpreced pararp
make puslic tni ter ue t ntents of the sid relai
Article 4. e ov   eaove a rincipal officer fro
office ncts co t  tututs, the rticles of Cor
porat on,  ore  uer e aus of tne industri 
conetrction or   st the public intorest.
1L1
Article  purt contravention of
the previsicns or rticie , ar 2, or maxe a fal opr
or inte: rup,  r , or clileage tue cight or inopectim.
shall oe 1rable to oe condeuneu to not more than six mantho
penal servitude or hall cur e fine not more than . .

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.79)
- 8 -
in case any represeutative of a juridical per
deputy, employee or any otuer person working for the 
erson or any rsous all  mxe report or suomi
Pal report  ontut t t rovisions of Artio
ar. 2, in cal tlor t. t uless or tue said juridie
or pos he   e rcedin g
Deiosrerson in
to the act r
article b. in cse a  v icncs is conmitted in
connection it  structi orporation
cheirn icecl r  rultors of the said
otion    tn  yo.
1.avin t oti    tion of t
conpetent lste i t is reguired by t
10
tr  lallon to get th
3.inthe con
inster under r  tiour.1, for t
purses or per
Article 27. e ncs is commit
in connection witn t ttton orporation
the airm e-ca  irer itore of th 
poran sal cut  1   or  2, y.
1. sal. t aae rrst atiun i c atrvention of tai L
or an , erier ura rance tnat s ii de issued in conrormity
nit. C..ie Law.
2. Depositin uo docunente n contraveution or the prosisiom

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.83)
of article 2c, rar. 2, or maxing false entries
3. railins to maxe puolic hotice required by the
of ci ,a. , or tie 23, rar. 2. or 
ral.e  uolic otice thereor.
Article .f ny t tir tu the nuustrial con
orl h 
na, sre than l .
supplementary I rovisi.
Article he   oret o h rovisio of t
Law shall o fi  ur inence.
Article . The industrlat ulp ut orporation w (oroin
called the old rescinded, t the
oldav snall ri ven fter its abrdgation 
rexard to the I orporatluand in
relationthe unal provisions to
actiontacen
r tne abrogation thr.
Articie .he no  poration suall b del
dissoive- it tne
i.un or theindustrial
qui ment or ora
he liguitqulpment Corporatio
snall beproseef the dustrial c
tn as it1i
in case te re rt.uhs or tne aw cuncernine the
Pemporary inanc sure  he paips or the ntrpri
econttistt  ied utatis mutandi
the ndustrial qulpent orpor on, a separate and pariculr
stipulation snall, if necessary, bo maut itn respect to the

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.85)
- 10 -
provisions of the Law concerning the Temporary
Measures of the ompa ies or the nterprise recom
adjustment aw bein., arrlied mutatlo mutandis.
 acditit t the mitisrescribed in the pree
two par raune, unj uecessar itters in relation to the
iiauidation ustr lnu vorporation hall
fixed by  erdiaance.
Article 32. Ph ov    commislon for the
transactin or  u   it the establih.
of the industrial .econstruct.on orporatlon.
Article 33. he concission i. the estaulisment of the Indas
Reconstruction orporation susil ako a araft of the artio
or corporatiun, anu opunln t  r vul o tnt competent
inister for the e.
len the icsion  tained the anotion of
the overant t  lesion   ithut delay  for
tue n o t luvnt o the apitl.
Article 34.
ivetment
tointlandover itsbuin
tue inalr an of ti o  irectors of the industrial Ro
structionor
ne the  ee ver tue dui
pheding ice-onairma
Dir etors ter rister  staolienment of 
corporation.
A soon a the rtrtl ot its eataolisnment 

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.95)
- 11.
made, the Industrial Reconstruction Corporation
into existence.
Article 3). hen this Law comes into force, if any person
than the industrial Reconstruction Corporation, i e
neme of the industrial econstrucvion corporation or usin
similar nane, tne provision of article lo shall not apply
witnin the limit of six montns thereof.
Article 36.  part of tre sertstretion feax Law shall be mondod
as follows:
in art. 1y, ho. 7 of the said Lay, "the industrial Ro
construction corporatiun" snail oe added next to "the Indu-
strial quipment corporation" and "tne taw concerning the
Industrial neconstruct.on sorporation" snall be added next
to "the aw concerning the inaustrial guipment Corporation.
Article 37. rhe stamp-luty aw snall oe amended as follows.
Next to Art. b. No. 5. of tr said Law the following
item shall be added:
2 of 5 of o: veeds ane couns relating to the business
of the Incustrial xeconstruction vorporation.

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.85)
taw. No. 46
Law Concerning the inaustrial Reconstruction
Corporation
Chapter 1
venerai rovisions
rticle 1. rhe industriel ceconscruction corporation shall
have, ror its oujeus, o mujustneat and utilization or
industriel egulpments ens materials in oroer to promote the
speedy romacllitation or ost wal huustry in accoraance with
the uasic policles ant , tt  vabiisheo oy the rresident of
the cononic tabilizaton oera.
Ihe ndustri. econetructlo. sorporation shall ca a
juridical person.
rticle 2. re pndustrial leconsoruccion corporation shall have
its sain orfic n   cretion receiving the
approvai or the   t str may estaolisn its anch
offices a te i cties  sucu stablisnment are
necessary.
Articleconstruction Corporti
article 4.  ncustria Reconstructio
cor  
article   maat cnstretn vorporation snall provide
re the ou  es or orporation
1. 1 0jt:
2. 1
3. the locvtion of ite eftlces:
4. aboer relat tu tne cunt of its apital;
う。
watters relatin to tne ppincipar officers;

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.86)
一2-
6. watters relating to its business; and managomem
7. Aatters as to its account;
8. ihe method of ublic notice.
In cases were the arprovai of the Government has
been ostained the articles or surporation may be changed.
Article c. ihe industrial meccastructron sorporation must, in
accoraence ith the provisione or the mperial crdinance,
be resistered.
The mettecs b ree  secordance with the
provision or terocuce can be set up against 
third person ony ten i atsers nave seen registered.
rticle 7. the hdustr  t c  erpocetion shall be
exempted rron to  sition st une ncome rax, the Juridioal
rerson rax ane te usl ms ax.
Tokyo, oxkalde, ruleecures, civies, towns and villago
or the other puulic su s or anizen by lews may not impose
any of the local tax s on the undertaxings of tne Industrial
tecenstructlon Jorcravlon.  rovided, nowever, tnat this
provisi  sneil ot ply n cases wnere the approval of te
luistee fer no mo rairs and the winister of finance been
obtsanee psvr o eclau cireumatsnces.
ptciri ecosuruclon sorporation hs
aade rogistration as co ar o the auseas tlon of title concern
ing r ar sssate or sne  ntevanee or une title unereof for tho
condaet of the susi s as rescrised pn item 1 or item 2.
aroic , o wont or the regleteation tax shalr e
rixeu au uhe-mait t. sandthe of the velue of the real eatate.
Acticle . if any cause or cissolution of the industrial feconstrue
tion or oration acises vne  rocedure of . diosolution of

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.96)
the corporation shall be specially pro
The provisions of Articles 44, 50, 54 and 57
Civil Code as weil as article 3y, rar. 1, of the Lam 
Noncontentions .rocedure shall apply with the necespary
modifications to tne industrial neconstruction Co
Artiole lc. Any porson other than the industrial neconstructs
corporation sheli not a called the Industriai Reconstruo
tion Corporation, and also may ot use similar names.
Chapter I1
Faincipal ufficers.
Article 1l. The ndustrial econstcuct on corporation hall hv
a Chairman and a Vice-cnairman of the poard of Directors.
more than two Directors and one u more auditors.
The Chairman or the soaru of irectors shall ropresont
the industrial veconstruction orporavion and snall exerei
general supervislon over its srfairs.
fhe Vioe-chairman snail, in accordadce with the provisions
of the rticles of or, oration, represent the indstrial
Reconstruction Corporation, and suail assist the Chairman,
and take charge of all departments of the business of the
Corporation. in case the chairman is unable to discharge
his duties, tne Vice-clhairman snall act  his deputy, and
whenever the office of chairman is vacant, the Vice-oheirman
shall exercise nis duties.
The Jireetors shall, in mocoroance witn tre provisioas
of the rticles of incurporation, represent the industrial
aeconstruction corpora lon and snall assist the Chairman
and the Vice-chairman, and take chargo of the business of the
Corporatlon. in case both of the unairman and the Vio-

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.92)
THE INDUSTRIAL RECONSTRUCTION FJBLIC
CORPORATIUN LAN
Chapter l. General rrovimions
Art. l. fhe Industrial Reconstruction Public Corporation
have, for its object, the aujustment anc tiom 
industrial equipment and materials in order to facilitato
renabilitation of post war industry under the basic indus
policies ano pians set up ur to be set up by the Director
General of the conomic stsbilization doard.
The industrial econstruction rublic Corporation shall
juridical ersou.
Art. 2. The main oftice or sne adustrial veconstruction suolfe
Corpogation suall ce establisned in fosyo.
The Induatrlar eccastructio..  ublic Corporation may. wish
tre approval of the capetent iaister, establisn pranoh c
offices where essential fo: tne ous ness menticned in antielo
16.
Art. 3. The authorized Fixed capila, of the Industrial. Heconst
tion sublic orporet. shal De ,,. Phe autherid
fixed capital or pr csdin paragtapl shall be suoscribed
exclusively ty the uove:nmont.
omking capital stall, he.. hecessary, oe cbtained by
loan from the necemstruetiou lnance bank.
Art. 4. lhe iaduscrial econstruct: n uolic vorporatlon phall
stipulate the rollowing mattero in ies rticles of incorper
tion:
1. voject
2.
irm neme
3. ocation or offices

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
Matters relative to capital
5.
Matters relative to officers
6.
Matters rclative to Dusiness and its exeouti
7.
jatters r lative to accounting
8. Metnod of public notices
The Articles of incorporation may be revised with
approval of the competent inister and the Direetor-Gon
of the Economic Babilization Board.
Art. 5. The Industriai teconstruction vublic Corporation shall
be registered in accordance wita tne provisions ef Imperial
Crainance.
The matters required to be registered as provided for 
the preceding paragraxo shall not De vslid against a thied
unlesa they are registered.
art. 6. The industrial xeconstruction rublic corporation shall
not be levied the income Tax and the Corporation Fax.
The prefocture, city, town, village and those correspe
to them shall not levy local taxes on the enterprise of Indu
Reconstruction rublic corporation. Tais shall, however. mot
apply where the inisters of Home affairs and Pinance have
approved under a special circunatance.
Art. 7. in case the lndustrial Reconstruction rublic Corporatiom
has effected registration as regerds acquisition of right to
real estate or preservation of ownership thereof relating to
the pusiness prescrived in Articie lo, the amount of the og
tion Tax shall be .ls of the value of the real ostate.

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.94)
-3-
Art. 8. The Industrial econstruction rublic Cerpom
be dissolved oy the oruer of the Director-Generai af
tabilization Hoard.
in case the irector-Ceneral of the canomie Stabid
tion soard issues the preceding urder, he shall conmult 
the Winister of commerce and industry. In the abo  
final remponsibility of tho order shali rest upem the Dim
General of the sconomic tabilization Board.
The matters necessary in case of dissolution of the
Industrial Reconstruction .uolic Ccrporation shall. besides
those provides for in the precedins paragrapr, be preeeribed
by Imperial Crdiuancu.
Art. 9. Any person other tnan tue industrial Reconstruetion ablo
Corpuration shall nut use the title of Incustrial Rconst
Fublic Corporation or similar title in nis firm ma.
Art. 1. The provislone of rticles 44, 5u, 4 and 57 of t givix
Code and Article , aragran i or the Nomiti Case
rrocedural Law sual. aprly correspondingly to the Iadustrial
Reconstruction iuslic corporetion.
Chapter 2. ufficers and rersonnels
Art. il. he +adustriai tecoustruction  ublic Corporatlon hall
have as its officers, one president, one vice-premident, two or
more directois and one or aore auaitors.
Ine :resicent suail represent the industrial Roconstruetio
Public Corporation anc supervise its ousiness in aceordanee wit
the provisions of Articie 15.

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.95)
The Vice-president ahall, as presoribed in the Art
Reconstruction rublic Corporation, assist the P
conducting busineas, act for him in case he canmo 
duty, and perform nis function in case his pest becomes
The Directors shall, as prescribed in the Artielem 
Insorporation, represent the Industrial Reconstruction Publie
Corporation, assist the pr sicent and the Vice-president n
conducting business, act for tnen in case they cannot take
their duties, and pe Purn t eir function in case their porition
become vacant.
The Auditors shall rns ect the ousiness of ohe Industrial
deconstruction .ublic Jorpuration.
Art. 12. The  resident, Vice-xresident, directors and auditors
shall be appointed oy the competest winister.
art. 13. Phe rresident, Vice-president and airectors may, in
accordance witn the provisions or tie Articles of Incorporation.
delegate power to officers and pe sonnels of the Induetrial
Reconstractlon fublic corporation, wno snall have authority
to perform all juriuical and non-juridical matters in re
to the affairs or the main or or ancn offices.
Art. 14. Phe officers and, personnels snall not nold stocks of any
company wn ich acquires the le use or industrial equipmonts or
materials from the ndustrial neconstruction rublic Corporation.
or engave in business of ceapany thereor or the other entorprise.
and or nave any benel cial r irtlon with the ousiness thoroof.
Art. 15. The officers and personmels ot the industrial Reconstrue-
tion sublle Corporetion shall be government officials and
personneis.
The rr sident snal. be trested as Shinnin Rank offioial.

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.95)
-5-
officdrs other than the president shall  of fiwms
officials, or treated as such. The competent Minimtem 
fix the number of tue above staff.
The officers and personnels of the Industrial Roco
tion Public Corporation shall be governed by all lama and
ordinances relating to the government officiala, provided th
cases that the competent lnister stipulates the special
exception concern ng te amcunt of salaries, civil mervice
rules, etc., with the approvai of the Director-General of the
sconomic stablilization soard.
Chapter s. susiness
Art. 16. The industriai econstructlon rublic Corporation mhall
perform, under tue direction and supervision of the competont
winister, tue folioxin ousiless in conformity with the basie
industrial policies anc programs to be established by the
Director-General or the cunomic tabilizatlon Board:
1. Constructron anu lease or sale of industrial equipmont,
under the prograt to De establisned by the Director-General of
the sconomic staolization Jourd,
2. rurchase ano lease or sale or industrial quipment or
materials, under the progrs to be established by the Director
General of the cconcric stabilization doard,
3. interprises desighated oy the sirector-General of the
scononic tabilization Boara, other tnan those listed in the
above two items.
Art. 17. Ihe industrial eccnstruction .ublic Corporation anall, 
the commeneement of its functioning establlan its mothod of

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.94)
- 6 -
doing business,
to the Direotoro
Bconomic Stabilization Board, and receive his abprovel
This shall also apply where e change is to be mede the
The Director-veneral of the conomic Stabilimatic
shall consult win the inlster of commeree and. ndustry 
the Minister of Finance, in case ne ives the approval providel
for by the preceain paragraph. in this case, however, the
final responsibility fot the spprovai snall rest with the Die
coneral of the conomic tapirizatlon soard.
Art. 18. The Industriel Reconstruction rublic Comporation shail.
at the beginnin, or first term und secona term of each businom
year, establis  Ousiness ro ran and financial program for
each respective bert auu susuit the same to tne Director-
General of the cono lic taoilization soard for his approval.
This shall also apply where a change is to be made theroto.
The Director-senerl: of the conomic staoilization Board
shall consult witn the Minister of Jommeree and Industry and
the Miniater or sinance, in case he gives the approval previded
for by the precedin: Article. in tuis case, nowever, the final
responsioility for approval shall rest with the Dire
General of the conomic stabilization Board.
Chaptor 4.ccountin
Art. l9. The business year or the ndustrial peconetruction Publio
Jorporatlon shsll be frum Aoril each yeer to Maren of the foll
ing year and divided into the rirst term and the second torm.
Art. 20. The industrial Reconstruction ruolic corporation shall
prepare a statement of assets, a balance sheet and a statomont
of profit and loss for each term provided for by the preceding

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.92)
-7-
Article, snd submit them to the Director-Gemer
omic Stabilization Board, for his approval withi
after the conclusion of the business year.
The irector-ceneral of tne conomic stabilisatiom
shall consult with tne inister of sinance, in case. bo
the approval provided for y tuo preceding paragraph.
case, nowever, the final responsibility for approval shall
rest witn the Jirectcr- leners. of the concmic Stabilization
Board.
The incustrial tecunctruction ruolic corporation shall.
when it nas ootainec tne s rcval prescribed in paragraph 1.
make a public notice or tue statement of essets, balance hoet
and the statement of  rorit ind loss, and keep them together
with the Articles o ineorporatico in eacn office.
The statement or assets, aiance sueet and the tatemn
or profit and fose or cue precedins paragraph shall be audited
and ap roved y tsu oard or udi.
The imdusere vconssruevion uslie corperation shall.
when it a cutarnot the ay roval ot tie birector-Goneral of
the mconomie tauir etlcn oard, say the surplue fund to the
National ireasury, in vecccesnce sivh the provisions of the
、rdiance.
ll soons, docunanes ane r c rus of the industrial docon
tron ruellc corpelution snall be clearly written and availablo
Por inspection of the cosru of ucit, the sconomic Stabilima
soard and tne competent ministry.
ine soard or aidit shall mase a continual and ccurate
audit es provided for oy the prececing paragraph.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.95)
Chapter 5. Supervision and Postering
Art. 2l. The Director-General of the Sconomio Stmb
shall direct and supervise the Industrial Recon
ublic Corporatlon in regard to its foundamontal
policies and prograns.
The Dir ctor-seneral of the sconomic Stabilisation
may, wnen deemed necess ry to lm peedy re-establish
incustrial enterprises, jasue, for supervision, a necess
order to the industrial xeconstruction ruolic Corporation.
The competent inister may, wr.en ueemed necessary in
accordance wit. the pasic industriel policy and ite planmin
issue, for supervisicn, a n cessery srder to the Industrinl
Reconstruction iublic cor oration.
The competent  anaster or the irector-General of the
aconomic stabilizetlon coare may, when deemed necessary,
the ndustrial vecusuruction ublic vorporatlon or those
receiving the lesse of imausccial euipment or materials 
the industrial keconstructls ruolie vorporation, submit
report or make an officiar concerneu, inspect a necessary
place to xanine the state ot ousiness, books, dooumonto r
any otner necessary mattere.
in case ine official concerned is sent for inspection nd
exacination in secureance witn the provisions of the proopding
paragraph, ne ahall carry un identification certificate to
prove nis ost as presorioed oy oreers.
Art. 22. The industrial i construction public Corporation phell
pre are rules on remuneration for its officers and pormommell
when deemed necessary to pay special payment to them, and ut

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.81)
- 9 -
the said rules to the irector-General of the doom
a change is lu be made trereto.
rere nomic tbilii
shall coit  . tent inieter and te inis
ran s  cover prvided for by th
onever,the Pinal r
iility ror arevar al.   te irector-teneral of
coomic tablliz o.
rt. 2s. he cu etent  inistet may reaove an orl icer of the
inistial ec astruculon Iuol. corporation. ln case ne viola
laws ane crainances, te iele of ncarporation or orainan
lasued on te casjs or t.is lav.
The virector- ener or the ccnomlo tabilizatlon Board
may remove an ofricer or tae ndustrial neconatruction rublio
orporation, i  cons sers t at  is not sitaole or proporl
  n
busine ofts.tuolc Cororation.
art. 24. Pho c euet t y, e deemed necessary for to
otlon  ttnulic orratio.
cer t id   s t orporation
     n o t usrial qu
porst!ou.
ne c euentlster a e deened necessary for
o etation of tle industria econstructlon . uullc serporation.
order or rlest owners, exclusive noiders, sud yersons having
cuatod, ncluding te inister r nunce, o: faciiitles

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.85)
- 10 -
required by tne industrial neconstructi Publie
to loase the facilities concerned to tne said rublie
A fair and quate rental for the use of such fa
resci loed in the recedin to paragraphs shall be d
by tusrector-ueneral  the conomic lasilization 
based cn policles previously esueslisned oy him.
hen te I ntal ls ueturmine in stcordanoe with the
provisione or tie prcedarea, o ndustrial edon
tion puolic or oration stil loase vhu racilllies refertd to
in parexrapns 1 t 2, rot per ruo  time not exceeding it
period of durstion, pre  . , par. 1. wita pp
of the vireclor-senura. ol  cuilc taolllzatlon Bord.
be competenti, eeemed neceseary for 
operation of the n t. ccostructon  uolic Corporatipn.
order the liqulaator o
ustriqulpent corporation
to uane over to 
nstraction public cor-
poratlo anyinssesion of
Industriar ul
in caue te orr  rn para ap is losud,
the ndustriar vecst  uuie Jorporation anail py fair
corpessstrons to te r coneoee wicin one month of tho
material, rererre t recraraph, being to
over  t ndstri ructn ublc orporation.
ine competeit  iniste. hali not iosue the order of
are a  unless peces  r sius are maue for compensation
of the preceding paraa  wit.. the aoprovai of the pirecter
Jeneral of tue sconomic tauilization soard.
The compstent mlnister way, wnen deemed necessary for the

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.78)
--
in accordance with puliciee establisned by the Direotor
of the conomic  taollization soard and with the
the inister of Franepor ten, uruer or demand ownors,
nolders or person bav custocy includins the minister of
iransporsatiom, of transportation facilitioste ma
for use by the rustral teconstruc. uulic sorporation.
in case or  cecin paragraph, the industrial Reconetr
tionlle  l y falr coenation to the
urties concerne.
:  I. not iasue tne oraer or demand
or paraIh   aviarons are made for co
tion or te pre
  rova of t  reot
ene f theco
iard
ite competer
ilresponsloie to mak th
rileconetngPor care
ceemed  rclities leaed
it,and for othe.
Phe c ater  nana the industril
econstrcilt cies concarned
.ina
mentsforexecution
of re pracedi
er 
111
.ve inra
1,rs to
sre t xeare  ore  exceedin .

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.80)
-12-
Art. 26. ufficers and persunnels of the Industrial Bose
Public cor oratlon who come under and ccamit an at
to one of the folioa in luows shail be liable to ponl
1.hose who ssicn is not precrioed in
rticle lo,
2.Thoselalive  supervision of th
irctor- etization Bord or th
co etene..1, l  i Iticle 21, paragraph 2
or 3.
rt. 27.e 
ir tui  or 
afalsifierrere or evadeinspeotions
sLglr DE L
arve not exceeding 1 year and
orrne
It.2
1
 f the psecedin three
rtie exuatlir
be liaole concurtltl   pol servituue and a Pino.
in case a reprstative  a luriolcal person (exeopt t
strlal ccoustr n  rporatin nereinarter t
san) or n ent, tr per nggd 
riperson comits the violation mentioned
rhere Anticlewitn regara to th
tiveson r the peron th
S
war  t sa be liable to
fine of   t recea rticle, ia addition at
 fener s  sed.

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.94)
-13-
who used the title of theInd
Public Corporation or a similar title in Viole
provisions of xrticle 9, shall  liable to
ing 1u,o0.
Supplementary rrovisions:
Art. 30. The date of tae enforcement of tnie Law in fegard 
eacn provisions shall ve designated by.an Imperial Qrdi
Art. 31.  Tne Industrial ecoustruction corpration Lew (he
called the old Law) snell be sbrogated; provided that hal
Law shall remain in force even efter the abrogation thep
in regand to the ep lication of penal provisions to aay 
under the old tav comuitted cefore the abrogation therbop.
Art. 321 Tha Induetrial Reconstruction corporation under the 
Law, shalll oe the industrial neconstruction suolic. Corparmtion
under the present x, accordin to the provisions of rtiel
33 to 37 inclusive.
Art. 33. The competent  inister suali establish a reorgmimasin
committee to deal win affairs necessary for the tranororati
of the industrial econstruction corporation into the Inaratr
Reconstruction ruclic vorporation.
Art. 34. The reor enization committse shall draft Articles of
incorporation for approval or the competent minister and
DirectortGenaral of tho conoulc tabllization Board.
Art. 35. The investment oy the deveraxent to the Industrial
Reconstruction corporatlon, shall be appropriated to the lave
investment by the government to the industrial Reconstruotion
rublic Corporation as provided for by the provisions ot Artiale
3. parastapt 2.
Art. 36. The reorganization ccmmittee shall, upon apuroval

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.92)
一1-
referred to in Article 34, transfer all the
delay to the resident of the Industrial Reaenst
Corporation.
All the .resident, Vice-president, direoters,
shall, when the resident has taken over all the a
referred to in tie precedine paragraph, effeot the po
of the estmblisument without delay.
The Industrial Reconstruction rublic Corporation shall
come into existance upon tne registration of establiahment.
Art. 37. The industriai deconstruction Jorporation shali be mr
into the ndustrial teconstruction ublic corporation, upon
the estaolishdent of che latuer, and all the rights and
responsioilities to tue inoustrial seconstruction Corporatio
shall be transferred co the industrial deconstruotion Publie
corporation, in nccordance with the provisions of this 
Art. 3a. The provisions of rticle ) snall not apply for 8 monthe
after the cnforcement of tais aw to those other than the
Industrlal Reconstruct un ruviic vorporation who use the titl
of industrial xecoustcuction puolic corporation or similar ti
at he time tuis was is put inte effect.
Art. . part of the eistration fax aw snall be amended 
rollows:
in krt. 1, ites 7, "industrial teconstruction Corporatio
and "incustriar teconscruction corporaticu paw" shall be dolt
Art. 4o. part of tne  au ax aw snall be amended a8 follow
ct. (o)-hall b eleted.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.93)
1914
KNTH MGKELLAR, TEN
CARL HAYDEN, AR.
United States Sonate hiTmal
PAT MCCARRAN, NEV.
JOHN H. GVERTON, LA.
MILTEN R. VOAN, N. DAX.
COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS
BHARY C. DWORSHAK, IDAHO
A-S(ah)
EVERARD H. SMITH, CLERK
CECIL H. TOLBNERT, ASST. CLERK
n.hylt.
DIVIS.N OF OCCUPIED ARS
2127/48
17 February 1948
ECO OMIC AFFAIRS
Rewritten c/cers
FEB1997
2127/48
DEPARTMI OF STATE
FAR FARTEON AFL
Dear Mr. Secretary:
ne
Wilt you please furnish to me a copy of the reports
-1748
XR
issued bythe mission headed by Mr. Clarence Strike? One
of these reports was issued sometime ago dealing with Japanese
reparations andwar plants.
0.
Cr
I understand that the second report has recently been
completed or is'now in the process of being completed. I would
208
appreciate getting this information as soon as possible. If the
second report is not yet ready I would like to have the first
one now and the second report when it is available.
Sincerely yours,
William F. Knowland
FILED
United States Senator
Honorable George Marshall
1948 MAR 3 PM 2 34
Secretary of State
State Department
DEPT OF
MR.SALTZN
Washington 25, D. C.
A-S
S
894.60/2-1748
M

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.93)
February 27, 1948
Dear Senator Knowland:
I understand that the Department of the
Army has furmished you with a eepy or the re-
pert en Japanese reparatiens submlsted to is
by Mr. lifford strike im February lsst, which
you requested by your letter of Fobruary 17,
194s, and that the Department or the Army has
not yet received the report of Overseas Cemsult-
ants, Ine., of whioh Mr. Strike is presidemt.
The first Strike greup and Overseas Gemeultaats,
Ino. were retained by the Department ef the Army
and their reports are submitted to it.
Sineerely yours,
For the Seeretary ef State:
Charles E. Behlen
Counseler
CS/A
jk
en
A true copy of
the signed erig-
inal
894.60
The Homorable
William F. Knowland,
United states Senate.
OE:RBSm1th: Js
A-S: MHemmendinger: Ja
2
0: CEBohlen:EBW
2/27/48

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.88)
pCR
U - Mr. Levett
894.60/2-1948
Subjoote Requat by Senater mostland Por Coples ot Strike Raperte
en Japanese Reparations.
Sonater Kneulend addreesed siudlar lotters to the Searetery
of state and the Sesrotary of the krey eaking for eopiee of the
strike reperte.
894
Generel Draper and I heve egreed that beth Depertmaate sheald
60/2-1748
the Congress.
In transmitting the Strike repert of a yeer
advisable to inelude the ether studles mhieh put it in ite preper
setting.
Frank G. Wisner
for Cscupied Aress
CS/ A
M
87
9
0
A-S: Mommendinger: ja
2
2-21-48
f
8

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
OFFICE OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DATE: Maroh 5,
1948.
SUBJECT:
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. G. R. Powles,
Counselor,
Legation of New Zealand,
and
Mr. J. K. Penfield,
894.60/3-548
Deputy Director, FÉ.
COPIES TO: NA
MMH
1-1608
Mr. Powles called this morning at his request. He stated
that he had nothing urgent to discuss, but wanted informally
to inquire whether Mr. Kennan's visit to Tokyo indicated that
we had given up hope of any peace settlement in the near future
and were consequently planning substantial changes in the SCAP
set-up or other steps which might be advisable if the occupa-
tion continues another two or three years. I replied that there
was nothing new on the peace treaty situation and that we have
made no decisions involving radical changes in Japan at this
time. I added, however, that we naturally felt that questions
could not be allowed to stand still and illustrated this point
by mentioning our plans for requesting rehabilitation funds and
SS
our desire to expedite agreement on the policy decision permit-
ting Japanese to proceed abroad.
A/
Mr. Powles volunteered the opinion that a wise course for
the US to follow in Japan now might be to encourage certain de-
velopments which might in other circumstances more appropriately
result from a formal peace settlement. He mentioned specifically
(but did not offer suggestions on implementation) settlement of
the level of industry and reparations questions, fixing of quotas
94.
for the import of certain strategic raw materials into Japan, and
the subsequent removal of all bans on participation of Japan in
world commerce.
HP
7元
FE:JKPenfield:hst
)

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.96)
STANDARD FORM ND. 64
CONFIDENTIAL
TO
: A-8, Mr. Claxton
DATE: Marsh 9, 1945
FROM : CE, Mr. Whitman
sUBJECT: Need for Techmical Advisory Opinion on CI Report
In reviewing Section A of the "Report of Industrial Reparations
Survey of Japan to the United States of America", prepared by Overseas
Consultants Incorporated, I find that there are raised various tech-
894.30/3-948
nical issues which must be properly evaluated and judged before the
Department's position on the OCI recommendations can be formulated.
I am particularly concerned over these problems because in several
cases widely differing opinions have been submitted by other teahnical
persons or groups. In my opinion, the proper resolution of the con-
flicting statements can best be made by thoroughly qualified profession-
al engineers who would approach the problem objectively.
Examples of these problems are:
1. Necessary allowances for reserve capacity in certain
industries, e.g., iron and steel, and thermal electric power.
2
2. Methods of estimating normal requirements for merchant
ship serviceing.
3. Numerous technical problems peculiar to the electric
power industry.
CSJC
It is my suggestion that, for evaluating these and other technical
problems raised in the CI report, the Department of State should ask
the cooperation of the Engineers Joint Council, which is composed of
officials of five national societies covering the major fields of the
engineering profession. The Engineers Joint Counoil has previously
sorved the government in similar matters, having sponsored the National
Engineers Committee which, at the request of the Department, in 1946
recommended measures for the control of the industrial level of Japan.
Mr. A. B. Newman of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers is
Chairman of the Engineers Joint Council.
894.60
If you approve of this suggestion I will draw up the specifie
technical questions which I feel should be submitted for evaluation.
Rx/R
Stae lev
0
Occurdre
Affil.s Division
Co : dential Fit
sm.th aw' Ka
CONFIDENTIAL
NA
E:RBSmith:SGKa1lis/cmb
RBS
SGK

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.94)
DC/T TRAFFIC SECTION
MAR 12 4 20 A11 1948
CE:B.
DIVIS N OF OCCUPIED AR AS
LO OMIC AFFAIRS
WU T37 NL PD
MAR 12 1948
NEWYORK NY MAR 11 1948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
US DEPARTMENT OF STATE
URGENTLY WISH TO OBTAIN REPORT ON INDUSTRIAL REPARATIONS SURVEY
OF JAPAN TO THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND COPY OF THE PAULEY
.60/3-1148
REPORT AND OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS PLEASE SEND TO ROBERT R DOANE
WEERN
N
747
LOAD TARRYTOHN NEW YOPK AU  TLIT AS TO ANY COST
AS: URINC YOU OUR APPRECIATION OF THIS SERVICE
ROBERT R DOANE J S.UM4O3A MAR 12
743 J S.
ER
C
60/3-448
11
SR
N

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.91)
reh 15, 1948
Dear Mr. Deane:
Your telegrem of Mareh 12 was forwarded to this offise
for reply this morming. We are very serry that we are wmakle
to completely fill your request, but due te the memerees
demands by the press for eopies of the Pauley Report eur
limited supply is exhausted. We are, homever, emelesing
copies of two related documents, namely, "Reparatiens Remevals
894.60/3-1148
of Industrial Facilities and Merehant Shipping frem Japam" end
an official press release on "Reductiom of Japanese Industrial
War Potential".
Your request for the report on "Industrial Reparations
Survey of Japan to the United States", prepered by Overseas
Consultant's Incorporated, and whieh was made to the Depart-
ment of the Aray, will have to be made direstly to that
Departmeat.
Very traly yours,
Resweni H. Whitmas
Acting Chief
Divisien of Oocupied Areas, Recmemis Affsirs
Enclosures:
CS/JEC
Copy ef "Reparations Removals of Industrial
Fasilities and Marehant Shipping frem Japan"
Far Eastern Commission Orrieiel Press Release,
September 2, 1947
894.
r. Bobert R. Doane
181948
0
743 Bodford Read
Tarrytomm, New York
CK
MAR 18 1948
09t.
RB1
0
Di

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.94)
DATE: Maroh 15, 1948
TO
: o - Mr. Claxton
SUBJECT:
Need for Technidal Advisory Opinion on OCI Report
The attached memorandum from Mr. Whitman has been
discussed with Mr. Butterworth. While it is agreed that
many technical issues are raised by the OCI Report that
must be properly evaluated and judged before the Depart-
ment's final recommendations can be formulated, we are
concerned that no opportunity be given for oriticism that
the Department is merely adopting delaying tactics or
attempting to have the OCI Report judged by persons who
previously had made a report at variance with it. It 1s
believed that if there are points on which further explana-
tions are needed it would be preferable, in the first
instance, to go directly to the authors of the Report for
explanations and elucidation. Should there then still be
matters under dispute or remaining unclear the Department
would be in a much stronger position to request reference
of the OCI Report to an outside body of engineers.
FILE.
8
Dato...5l.9.1st8
mitials....r....
1948 MAR 15
farthe.
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
M
A-S
C SJC
PM 5 01
SZ
E
File
Alt
894.60
MMay19, 48
RN/R
NA:JMAll1son/pm
Anal.
State Derit.
Northeast Asin.
Rev.
Affairs Division
fron Allison

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.90)
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
Department of State
NO.
Washington,
March 17,1948
8:35 a.m.
1729
To
Certain American Diplomatic and Consular Officers
894.60/3-1748
The Department wishes to be kept currently informed of any
press or other public reaction on recommendations egarding
reparations from Japan contained in report by Oyerseas Consult-
YR
ant's,Incorporated (Strike group), which was refeased to press
March 10.
MARSHALL
Sent to:
AMEMBASSY
(NANKING)
11
(MOSCOW)
n
(CANBERRA)
11
(LONDON)
11
(PARIS)
11
(MANILA)
18
(THE HAGUE)
11
(DELHI)
11
(OTTAWA)
11
(RANGOON)
AMLEGATION
(WELLINGTON)
AMERICAN CONSUL
(SHANGHAI)
11
n
(SINGAPORE)
1I
(SAIGON)
11
11
(BATABIA)
Marbell
DISTRIBUTION
RNn
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
CS/V
92
SGK
24
a-dut
E:SGKallis:cmb
OE
RNN
3/15/48
g#
cob
CR CLEARANCE
CR
MAR
1948PM
714

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.91)
TO
: 0 - Mr. Wiener 
DATE:
March 18, 1948
FROM : E - Mr. Thorp
susject: FEC papers on Level of Japanese Industry.
On March 8, you forwarded to me a memorandum
on this subject prepared by NA and requested my con-
currence or comments.
I understand that since the NA memorandum was
prepared the Department has instructed General McCoy
894.60
and his staff wi th regard to the procedures to be
adopted in the FEC concerning a number of papers in
the FEC, including SC-242/19 and C2-297/2 referred
to in the above mentioned memorandum. It seems un-
necessary, therefore, to add to the instructions
already given General McCoy.
w
3-1845
2 BfMar. Allim oguud thes mens
nperaled by losta to adcy
annd converltin thi ffine
Mrd -urT
1948 MAR 19 PM 5 08
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
A-S
221
M
PANY
F
OE:RHWhitman:emh
4
5277

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.94)
DATE: March 8, 1948
TO : A-T Mr. Thorp
FROM : O Mr. Claxton
SUBJECT: FEC Papers on Level of Japanese Industry.
Would you please let me have your concurrence or comments on the attached
memorandum from Mr. Butterworth.
DIVIS'ON OF OCCUPIED AR :S
:O NIC AFAIRS
MAR 1 5 1948
DEPARTML  IATE
UE. Cloy
Under Se  for de 
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
3/8/48
227

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
As-Mhu wisner
TO
: FE - Mr. Butterworth Dωi
DATE: Xaroh 4, 1948
SUBJECT:
Action to be Taken with regard to FEC Papers on Level of
Japanese Industry.
In April, 1947, the US Delegat1on on the FEC introduced
policy proposals concerning Japanese level of industry. These
proposals were referred to Committee 2 of the FEC as FEC 218.
Since the introduction of this paper various amendments have been
proposed by other Delegations and that portion of the paper deal-
ing with recommendations on shipping and shipbuilding have been
removed and incorporated in a separate paper. There are there-
fore two papers before the FEC dealing with level of economio
life in Japan. One, which is now in the Steering Committee and
bears the number SC 242/19, includes many of the original Us
proposals in FEC 2l8 but alters certain of the levels proposed
by the Us in that paper and includes levels for certain industrial
categories not specified in FEC 2l8. The other paper dealing
with Japanese shipbuilding and shipping 1s at present in Com-
mittee 2 and bears the number C2-297/2. It 1s obvious from a
reading of these two papers, particularly in light of the latest
Strike report, that the Us Government will wish to consider very
seriously the possible necessity of revising upwards certain of
the levels recommended. This is doubly so in view of the fact
that Mr. Kennan will be discussing this general problem on his
trip to Japan and will undoubtedly have recommendations to make
with regard to the problem upon his return.
The more important paper dealing with aspeots of Japanese
economic life other than shipping and shipbuilding has passed
out of Committee 2 and is now in the Steering Committee. According
to views which have been expressed in the Steering Committee
by representatives or various countries, only two nations (Canada
and the Netherlands) are ready at this time to vote in favor of
the paper as it stands. Three nations (USSR, Philippines and
France) have general reservations which would prevent their
voting for the paper as it stands. Two nations (the UK and
Australia) can approve the paper with minor amendments. New
Zealand can approve the paper witn the exception of the pro-
visions relating to light metale. The Indian Delegate has made
no reservations and has no amendments to offer, but does not have
instructions permitting him to vote for the paper. China not
only has general reservations but at the last meeting of the
Steering Committee on March 2 introduced various amendments
lowering the levels in iron and steel, soda ash, caustic soda
and ohlorine industry, and thermo-electric power, eliminating
all capacity for production of alumina and primary aluminum.
A special
RESTRICTED
5277

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRIOTED
-2-
A special technical Committee of the Whole has been established
to discuss the Chinese amendments before the next meeting of the
Steering Committee on March 9.
In view of the fact that the paper now before the Steering
Committee 1s no longer a United States paper but rather a
Steering Committee paper, it would be dirricult if not impossible
for the United States to propose withdrawing the paper. In view
of the considerable difference of opinion regarding the paper
which still remains among the various Delegations, as outlined
above, there is practically no possibility of the paper's being
voted out of the Steering Committee within the next several
weeks.
It will probably be imposcible to prevent discussion of the
paper in the Steering Committee or subcommiiteee thersof over the
next few weeks and it is therefore recommended that vie Us Dele-
gation members who may be called upon to participate in meetings
with regard to this paper be instructed to make abundantly olear
to the other nations conoerned:
1. that the US Government 1s in no way committed
in whole or in part to any of the provisions of the paper
under reference;
2. that in arguing against the lower levels advocated
by the Chinese, the Us Delegates do not imply approval of
previous levels already incorporated in the paper;
3. that this attitude is being taken in light of recent
studies which have been made, such as the report of the
Overseas Consultants, Incorporated, (the Strike report);
and other rtudier being mades
4. that while the Us Government does not wish at this
time to propose withdrawal of the paper it is not now
prepared to vote on the paper or express an opinion on
any part thereof.
If you agree with the above recommendations it is suggested
that they be forwarded to A-S with the request that members of
the US Delegation to the FEC be appropriately instruoted.
I am sending a copy of this memorandum to Mr. Davies of S/P
for his information as I understand the Policy Planning Group 1s
concerned over.this matter.
Approve: b6213.
Bisapprove:
NA:JMAll1son/pm
OE

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
Office of
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAR1948
DATE: Mar 19, 1948
SUBJECT:
British Desire for FEC Aotion on Level of Iydustry
in Japan.
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. Hubert Graves, Counselor of British Eabassy
894.60/3-1948
Mr. Hugh Borton
COPIES TO:
G
SP - Mr. Davies
OE - Mr. Whitman
FE
OE - Mr. Barnett
FE - Mr. Hamilton
NA - Mr. Allison
BO
1-1408
In connection with a conversation on the question
of a Japanese Peace Conference, Mr. Graves brought up
the subject of an FEC determination of a level of
industry for Japan. In his opinion, one of the reasons
for the lack of economio development in Japan has been
the failure of FEC to agree on a level of industry for
Japan. He attributed the lack of a decision on this
question to the failure of the United States Government
to present its views on the subject. In Mr. Graves'
CS/A
mind this decision is quite different from an agreement
on levels of industry for determining availability of
reparations.
Mr. Graves believes that it is extremely important,
from the point of view of Japanese economio rehabilita-
thon, to guarantee to the Japanese that they will be
FILJD
permitted to rehabilitate their industries to a certain
"rloor level". This level would apply to all industries
894.60
ir I understood Mr. Graves correctly, but would not be
used as a basis for determining availability for
reparations. The level should be low enough and the
whole question should be detached from problems of
reparations, so that agreement could easily be reached
in a short time. The FEC should then determine a capacity
3
level
CONFIDENTIAL
F

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDDITIAL
-2
level above which equipment would be made available fer
reparations. Japanese industrial capacity lying between
these two levels would, according to Mr. Graves? view,
be disposed of at the Peace Conference--this eapaeity
could be made available for reparations, could be
returned to the Japanese or could be destroyed. Mr. Graves
concluded by stating his hope that speedy astion could
be taken on this question.
Comment
On March 16, 1948, Mr. Graves read a statement at
the Steering Committee urging adoption of 80 242/19
"Japanese Level of Industry". It has always been my
understanding that the U.S. Government took the position
that the "Level of Industry" papers were for determination
of availability of reparations, not for determination of
fixed levels. Ir I have understood Hr. Graves correotly,
there is far greater difference of view between the
British and ourselves on economio matters than we have
heretofore assumed.
H3
FE:HBorton:meh
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.95)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
ELO OMIC AFFAIRS
LOAPRT-1940UBR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNDEPABNOND ECOISE TELEGRAPH BRANCH
217
TOOE
AIRGRAN
RESTRICTED
AMERICAN BBASSY
TOF STATH
MAMILA, PHILIPPINES
SECSTATE
WASHINGTON
REC'D. Apr. 2. 1948 12:59 PN
3
2
ACTION OFD
A-125, March 24, 1948
INFO
DC/R
0
Roferonce 1s made to Departmont's airgram, March 17.1948.
FE
8:35 a.m., roqueeting shat the Departnent be kept curreatly
DC/L
informed of press or othor public reaction to recommendation
OCD
894.60/
regerding reparations from Japan contained in report by Overseas
CIA
Consaltanss, Incorjorated (Striko group) which was raleased to
preso on March 10.
With excoption of publication of eyndicated newe agencies'
releases upon subjoct which were given rolatively little prominence
1n local pross. there has been no newrpever or other mblic
reection to March 10 relosse. However, MANILA TIMES (at present
tho most outepoken o? locel newspepers with relation to any
"soft" peace nolicy for Japan) publishod in iss March 3 issum,
under the headline: Tiore Jap Pale Sornding Opf", the UNITED
4
PRESS despetch dated Washington. March 2..which announced that
Overseas Consultants, Incorporated, hed advised Army Department
that "no productiv: facilities should De renoved from Japan as
reparations." On olloving day, TIMBS contained editorial
entitled "We Disseat" (included as Enclosure No. 15 in Embesay's
despatch No. 259 of March 5, 194g, entitled "Philippine Press
Comment Upon the Japenose Situation) in which sditor professes
little sympathy fo: Ovorceas Consultante, Incorporated, whom he
describes as "r-4 incorporationists" and as being "to the average
carpet-bagger whet the carpot-bagger is to the honest businessman.
He gooe on to say that igeue is not "how much can be gotten out of
the Japs by way of reparations" but "whother the Jap, with hie
inborm viciousness so amply demonstrared, is to be permitted to
recover the strength that gave that vicioueness its effectivity."
To date, this one editorial reprosents only kmown press
reaction to rocommendationo made by Ovormeas Consultants,
Incorporated, and other muhlic reaction hae not made itself kmown
APR 8 1948
The Department will be kapt currently informed.
O!NEAL
5
H
891/711.9.
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.
Charles P. KeVicker. Jr.:gh

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.97)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
POCOPIBO"XR AS
ÉCONOMIC AEPAIRS
APR 6 1948
DEPARTMENI OF STATE
TO OE
AIRGRAI:
229
FROI!: Shanghai, China
DATE: March 26, 1948
NO. : A-264
RESTRICTED
MAILUD:
Mar. 30, 1948
Rec'd: Apr. 2,1948 1:02 PM
SECSTATD,
3
WASHINGTON.
894.60/3-2648
2
ACTION OFD
INFO
A-264, Liarch 26, 1948.
DC/R
0
FE
Reference to the Department's circular airgram of
DC/L
March 17, 8:34 a.m., expressing the wish that the Depart-
OCD
ment be currently informed of any press or other public
CIA
reaction to the report of Overseas Consultant's, Incor-
porated (Strike group).
The first known reference in the Shangha1 press to.
the Strike report was contained in the special article of
the February 13 edition of the TA KUNG PAO which was re-
ported on page 3 in the Consulate General's despatch
No. 23 of February 20. The full text of the seriated
reference reads:
"On the quostion of reparations, rejecting the
more strict Pauley Plan in favor of the extremely
limited Strike Plan, with Strike recently making a
Q
strong move against reparations under the slogan
'reparations are extravagance'."
Next attention was contained in a Stuart Hensloy UP
despatch of Larch 1 published in the SHANGILAI EVENING POST,
March 2, covered by telegran 346 of Larch 3.
The SIUN PAO carried the next treatment in an editorial
on March 6 entitled "We Oppose Strike's No Reparation Plan".
The full text of this editorial accompanied the Consule
R
General's despatch No. 35 of March 8, 1948.
8
On March 11
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R contral files with notation of action taken

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
RUSTRICTED
A-264, March 26, 1948, from Shangha1.
On Liarch 1l both the CHINA DAILY TRIBUNF and NORTH
CHINA DAILY NEWS carrled the Worris J. Harris AP despatch
of March 9, which 1s also presumed to be available to the
Department.
Only other kmowm treatment is Warch 25 editorial in
TA KUNG PAo which is summarized in the Consulate General's
telogram 688 of March 26 and 1s going forward in full
text by dospatch.
CABOT
F11o No. 800
DEdgar:of
Heotograph and copy to Department.
Copy to Embassy, Nanking.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OE
No. 303
RESTRIUTION OF OCCUPIED AP S ANERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
LCONOMIC AFFAIRS
Shan hai, China, March 27, 1948.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Subject: Press or Other Public Reaction to the Strike
Report on Japanese Reparations.
C
THE
HONORARL:
TIE SECRETARCY CP STATE,
vx740.00119..
WASHINOTON, D. C.
894.60/3-2748
A
16
894.6
0
ACTION
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
Airgram of March 17, 1948, 8:35 a.m., on the above sub-
ject and to my Airgram No. 264 of L.arch 26, 1948, con-
taining a partial reply.
There is enclosed the full text of a translation of
the editorial in the TA KUNG PAO of March 25 referred to
ILH
in my airgram.
In summary the editorial sees in the proposed pro-
170
gram a serious threat to China which will cause it great
losses and which must be protested "on behalf of the
OCD
Chinese people and in compliance with the wishes of the
Chinese nation".
Respectfully yours,
Mmmlaht
CS/A
CIa
1948 APR 7 AM
John M. Cabot
American Consul General
RECEIVE
LIAISON
DC/L
Enclosure:
0
1/
Full Text of Translation of Editorial, On
Strike's Report", published in TA KUNG PAO
March 25, 1948.
of
File No. 800
DEdgar: of
APR 21 1948
Original and Hectograph to Department
Copy to Embassy, Nanking.
An
RESTRICTED

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch
dated March 27, 1948, from
Consulate General, Shanghai, Chi
SOURCE: TA KUNG PAO, MARCH 25, 1948.
Following George F. Kennan, U.S. Under Secretary of
the Army William H. Draper, Jr., has also gone to Japan
at the head of an economic mission to that country. There
has been a constant stream of U.S. envoys travelling to
Japan, whose duty it is to help Japan to recover. They
have been visiting, investigating and planning, and we have
read a large number of news reports regarding them. At
this time when the conflict between the two blocs of nations
is being steadily intensified, the United States is positively
planning to aid Europe and even more positively planning to
assist Japan. Highly elated, Japanese Premier Ashida de-
clared, "So far as Japanese economy is concerned, this is the
first hopeful year since the end of the War." He also ex-
pressed appreciation of the liberality of the Strike repara-
tions program.
The United States' plan for helping Japan to recover
is centered on the Strike program. This program proposes
that the amount of Japanese reparations be reduced and that
Japan's industrial equipment be preserved so that the re-
covery work can be started. In order to meet the require-
ments of Japanese industries, that is, to make Japan "self-
sufficient", it proposes a "relief fund" of US$375 million,
a "recovery budget" of US$l8o million, a "cotton loan" of
US$60 million, and a "trade fund" of US$150 million. The
United States is planning to spend a total of US$765 million
for helping Japan during the next fiscal year, and says that
this sum "may be increased". The full text of Strike's re-
port has not yet been made public; what has been published.
is an outline of that report. In this outline we find some
serious problems which we deem it necessary to point out.
(1) The adoption of the system of using manufactured
goods as reparations. The Pauley reparations program opposed
the use of labor, manufactured goods, and goods already
available for reparations. It advocated the use of indus-
trial equipment, and not manufactured goods, as reparations.
Ignoring this principle, Strike has divided industrial equip-
ment into two types, namely (a) the productive power which
should be preserved, and (b) the productive power which is
to be used to produce goods to cover reparations. These
two types of industrial equipment will both remain in Japan.
He opposes the removal from Japan of industrial equipment
other than that belonging to the War industries, that is,
he opposes the removal of the plants which have already
been designated as reparations, and proposes that they be
kept in Japan and that what they produce be used as repara-
tions. In this way, the industrial equipment and indus-
trial level which Japan is to keep will be the productive
power which she is to keep, plus the productive power for
producing the reparations goods. For instance, how large
a productive

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
a productive power for sulphuric acid is Japan going to
have? She will be allowed to "preserve" a productive
power for 3.5l million tons of sulphuric acid, plus a
productive power for l.245 million tons sulphuric acid
for reparations purposes. This method is the same as
that which the Allied Powers employed in demanding repa-
rations from Germany after World War I. It means that
the defeated nation's industrial foundation will be left
intact. The so-called fixing of an industrial level is
no longer designed to limit the defeated nation's indus-
trial production so as to prevent it from embarking upon
aggression again, but rather to prevent the victorious na-
tions from demanding too much reparations. Let us repeat
that Japan will be able to preserve all of her industrial
equipment, and that there will be no need for dismantling
any of it for shipment to other countries.
(2) As regards the industrial level which Japan
should be allowed to preserve, the Far Eastern Commission
in April last decided that it should be the industrial
level which prevailed during the pe riod 1930-34, and the
Pauley program called for an industrial level based upon
the Japanese people's standard of living which prevailed
during the period 1926-30. An industrial level is differ-
ent from a standard of living. The former is fixed and
cannot be changed, while the latter must include changes
in the size of the population, as well as economic factors
other than industry. Now, in order to help Japan recover,
Strike has changed the 1930-34 industrial level into the
standard of living for the same'period, and assumes that
this standard of living can be restored by the year 1953.
By that time the population figure of Japan for the period
1930-34 will have been increased by 30 percent, and due to
the fact that there is too little arable land in that
country, the non-agrarian population will have been increased
by 60 percent. This 60 percent population increase will
naturally have to find an out-let in industry. In this way,
the 1930-34 industrial level will be exceeded and Japan's
industrial level will be brought back to where it was in
1937. Strike's report uses the 1937, or even the 1939,
industrial level as the standard. It can also be said that
he has based his proposal on the increase in population,
and that he no longer makes mention of the industrial level.
In this way, Japanese industries will be subjected to no
restrictions at all.
(3) Strike no longer considers the danger of Japan's
re-embarking upon aggression from an industrial and economic
point of view. The principle set forth in the Potsdam
Declaration has now been sentenced to death. Strike knows
full well that an industrialized Japan may become a strong
militaristic nation. But he pins his hope on "careful
control". Then he defines control thus: "We admit, of
course, that such control may be only temporary in nature,
for only if the philosophy and thinking of the Japanese
people

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
people can develop along peaceful lines can lasting peace
be assured." In other words, what the United States re-
quires today is to give economic power to a militaristio
Japan.
As to whether or not Japan is going to re-embark
upon aggression, this is a matter for Japanese philosophy
to decide and the United States can have no say in it.
Never before have we heard expressed, such an irresponsible
view regarding the control of Japan, and never has anyone
else been so bold as to say, as Strike has done, "There is
no way of fully satisfying those nations who have demanded
reparations, nor is there any way of punishing the Japanese
to the fullest extent." We really have "no way" of further
explaining Strike's position.
(4) Strike says in his report that the industrial
plants which should not be removed from Japan are those
other than war industries. He further says, "Japan is in-
capable of manufacturing big guns, tanks, warships, air-
craft, and ammunition." What he means by war industries
is very limited in scope and is humbug. As far as we know,
the Nakashima Aircraft Factory is still preserved. In the
outline of Strike's report which has already been made
public, war industries are included in the list of indus-
tries which are to be preserved. Among the productive
power to be preserved is included that for 25,000 tons of
aluminum. Aluminum is a raw material for manufacturing
aircraft, and both the Pauley program and the reparations
program approved by General MacArthur prohibit the manu-
facture of aluminum. Yet Strike proposes to preserve
Japan's productive power for this metal. The refining of
9.8 million barrels of oil as proposed by Strike is also
a war industry that has been proposed for the first time.
On the list of industries which will be for reparations
purposes but which will not be dismantled is industrial
equipment for producing 6.8 million tons of magnesium and
for building 640,000 tons of shipping. The annual produc-
tive power for steel, including that to be preserved and
that for reparation purposes, as proposed by Strike is
6.4 million tons. Among the industries to be preserved
are a large steel and iron industry, a highly developed
machinery industry, and aluminum, magnesium and oil in-
dustries. In addition, there is a chemical industry which
exceeds the level fixed. With these industries, Japan cer-
tainly will be able to manufacture big guns, tanks, aircraft,
warships, and ammunition. A unique feature of Strike's
report is that it openly advocates the preservation and
development of Japan's war industries.
The above four points show clearly that the reparations
program as outlined in Strike's report will be a serious
threat to China and will cause her great losses. We hereby
express our indignation and protest on behalf of the Chinese
people

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
people and in compliance with the wishes of the Chin
nation. It may be that this protest will be futilo
that the United States will want to help Japan to recew
regardless of opposition, but we cannot remain silent.
China suffered from Japanese aggression for 50 or 60 year
so not even for a.single day can we forget that Japant
recovery will be a threat to China's security.

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
DE
UXITED STATES OF AMERICA
DIVIS ON OF OUPIED AK S
xcR
No. 314
ELO OMIC AFFAIRS
APRS-1948
UNCLASSIFIED
DEPARTME
ALERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
Shan nai, China, March 31, 1948.
Subject:
Editorial Conment on Strike Program for
Japanese Repurutions.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.60/3-3148
THE HONORALLE
RECEIVED
THE SECRETARTT OF STATH,
WASO,.C.
SI
I have the honor to refep to the Department's
circular airgram of March 17, 3:35 a.m., and to trans-
ACTION
mit further editorial comment on the Strike program
OE
for Japanese reparations.
COIES
FE/e
in its March 30 issue under the title "Effort to Help
Japan to Recover Becomes Lore Positive", carried a
lengthy editorial on United States policy toward Japan,
0
1//e a suninary translation of which is enclosed.
ILH
After outlining the Draper proposals, the editorial
says:
"While Draper has not definitely explained
CS/A
how liberal the reparations program is going to
be, yet the reparations program proposed by Strike
7C-1e
rations program proposed by the United States will,
In effect, be a pro ran of no reparations."
C1c一
The atl itude o! the editor is sunmed up in the
paragraph:
"We have said before that because the U.S.-
Soviet conflict has been intensified and because
the international strug le has reached the stage
of white heat, it is inevitable that both Germany
and Japan will be helped to recover, and that any
894.14
opposition on the part of those countries whose
interests are adversely affected will be of no
avail Howover, while in connection with the re-
八
of Europe
30 1948
An UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
UNCLASSIFIED
of Europe as a whole, yet in connection with the
recovery of Japan, the only excuse is that it will
not endanger the economy of the different countries
in the Far East. Those countries in the Far East
whose interests are affected certainly should not
lightly tolerate this."
2/
I also enclose the full translated text of an edi-
torial entitled "Our Policy Toward Japan" which was
carried by the official KMT organ CHUNG YANG JIH PAO on
March 27. This editorial is a further indication of the
effort by the National Government to indicate an official
support of our policy toward Japan as announced in the
Far Eastern Commission. The editorial is characterized
by such statements as, "Consequently, we feel that General
MacArthur's policy is right" and "So long as Japan's in-
dustrial equipment is such that it cannot serve as a
basis for the rebuilding of Japan's militarism, China will
not become jealous over it." In other words, the official
position does not give consideration to the commercial
worries which have been stated in so many other publica-
tions: that a revival of an economically strong Japan
will deprive China of that brilliant economic future that
its commercial interests have foreseen, but which they are
unable through incompetence to attain.
Respectfully yours
amlakt
John M. Cabot
American Consul General
Enclosures:
10π1
Help Japan to Recover Becomes More Positive".
2/
Full translation of editorial, "Our Policy
Toward Japan".
File No. 800
DEdgar:of
Original and Hectograph to Department.
Copy to Embassy, Nanking.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.98)
dated Maroh 31.
Consulate General,
First Step Toward Democratic Constitutional
Government
Shun Pao (KAT-suporvised. C.C. Organ). Shanghai
March 29, 1948
Today is the enniversary of the Seventy-two Martyrs and also the fifth
Youth Day which has been observed. The first Constitution-enforcing National
Assenbly opens today at Nanking, a fact which adds to the meaning of observanbo
of the anniversary of the Seventy-tro Martyrs and of Youtn Day. All of us
should look straight at realities and should deeply reflect, so that both
the Govarnment and the people vili wake up and make plans for reform and re-
generation ritnout delay.
First, the most important task of the Government today is that of queli
ing the rebellion and reconstructing the nation, and the fundamental task of
the popularly-elented govermment vill also be to quell the rehellion and to
reconstruct the nation,
Secondly, in tryino to quell thc rehellion, ve must first study the
cause of the rehellion. While the reason why the Conmurist bandits are so
strong today is that the Governrent adonted the vrong course of engaging in
peace talks ith then shortly after V-J. Day, yet during the year since the
Governrent issued the genernl mobilization order for quelling the rebellion,
not only has the strength of the Com unist bandits not been reduced, but the
area of thoir rebellious activities has been oxtended. Why is this? As a
result of caroful reflection, ve find that aside fron the fact thatfgovernment
has been corrunt nnd inoificint, the most important factor contributing to
the prescnt grave situntion is the fect that whilo it believes in the late
Dr. Sun Yat-sen's Threo Poonleis Princinles, yet the Kuomintang has only
been sitting don end t-lking ithout stanling un and acting. Especially
has it been unable to linit private cenital and to redistribute land in an
equitable manner, as required by the Principle of the Peonle's Livelihood.
None of these econonic reforrs, hich vould have been benefiaial both to the
country nnd the peo le, have been seriously carried out by the Government,
but, instead, have been stolen by the Conumist bandits. Therefore, not only
have the ignorant Chinese farners blindly folloved the Conmunists, but even
the foreign press corres ondents have wrongly regarded the Communist bandits
as a political party thich advocates "agrarian reforn". The Kuonintang must
adnit this nistake on its on part, and also reflect carefully.
Thirdly, vhile success in quelling the rebellion and reconstructing the
nation depends upon the effort of the Governnent, yet such success cannot
easily be attained without the cooperation of the people. Today, China re-
quires those educ ted youths uho are selfless nnd unselfish and vho can
apprecinte +he suffering of the vast mnjority of the people and can speak on
their behelf--youths who can, on the one hand, make known the wishes of the
peonle and, on the other hand, unite to form a force hich will urge the
Government to effect reforns and to nnke progress. On the one hand, we wish
the National Assenbly every success, and on the other hand, we hope that
educated youths throughout the country will stand up and vork for the deno-
cratization of politics and the socinlization of econony, so that the task
of quelling the rehellion and reconstructing the nation can be completed at
an early date. (Extracts)
* * *
Effort to Help Japan to Recover Becomes More Positive
Tung Nan Jih Pao (KMT Southeast China Organ), Shanghai
March 30, 148
Lately, one has heard much about helping Japan to recover. A number of
important U.S. Government officials have been dispatched to Japan, and the
missions led by Kennan, Advisor to the State Department, and Draper, Under
Secretary of the Army, have attracted the most attention. In the plan for

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.98)
the recovery of Japan which Draper made public before a press conference in
Japan the other day, reference was made to the official plan to be conside
by the U.S. Congress. The fact thet Draper has revealed the plan before 
is passed by the Congress indicates that the plan will undoubtedly be
passed by Congress,
In order to achieve the recovery cf Japan, Draper has made two pro-
posals: One of these is that although the Potsdam Pact provides that Japan'
economy should be based on the 1930-34 level, yet the United States feels
that if in the future Japan shows that she can raise this level by her own
efforts vithout endangering peace, then this economic level can be raised.
In other vords, the principles for limiting Japen's war potential which are
contained in the Potsdam Pact should no lcnger be binding. The second of
these proposals is that the reparations program for Japan should be very
liberal, so as to enable her to become self-suficient. While Draper has
not derinitely explaincd how liberal the renarations program is going to be,
yet the repar,tions program proposed by Strike has answered this question.
In a word, the reparations program proposed by the United States vill, in
cffcct, bo a progrnm of no reparaticns.
The reparations program for Jopan is noy being made more concrete and
nore positive evidently with General MacArthur as the center. In other words,
this is the further unfolling o? General MacArthur's consistent policy of
building up Japan. Thic development vill be reflected in the change in
the United States attitude to ard t'e Japanese peace treety and in her effort
to enal le Japen to regcin her place in the femily of nations.
The Ashida Cab'net ai the Jananese both in and outside the Government
have not been so elated because of nothing. The political situation in
Japan is unstable and the Ashida Cabinet vill not last very long, but the
old foundation of Jaran is intact and strong. When the J.S. plan of helping
Japan to recover is carried out, large amounts of J.S. money will flow to
Japan, so that General Mnc Arthur's work of converting Japan into the 49th
State can be completed. The recovery of Japan is said to be entirely com-
patible with the interests of the Jrited States, Japan will be allowed to
develop politically and economicnlly with complete freedom, In this way,
the Ashida Cabinet vhich other ise would be shortlived may be able to live
long, and the wenkness of Japan may become a mere historical term.
We have said hefore that because the U.S.-Soviet conflict has been
intensified and because the international struggle has reached the stage of
white heat, it is inevitable that both Germany nnd Janan will be helped to
recover, and that any opposition on the part of those countries whose in-
terests are adversely affected will be of no avail. However, while in con-
nection with the recovery of Germany there is the plan for the recovery of
Europe as a vholc, yot in connection vith the recovery of Japan, the only
excuse is thnt it will not endanger the economy of the different countries
in the For East. Those countries in the Far East vhose interests are affected
certainly should not lightly tolerate this.
So far as Chinn is concernod, the US300-500 million China aid bill has
had to he delayed, discussed, and reduced time and agrin, and in addition,
there has been n lot of criticism of China vhich is ithout foundation. Yet
in connection with the recovery of Japan, for the first vear alone US$580
million ill be spent, and the aid - ill be continued for a period of five or
six years on n gradunlly reduced scale. And yet China finds this way of
putting the cart before the horse and of not distinguishing between what is
urgent and what is not urgent tolerable, and even supnorts it. In this way,
We are certainly ignoring the security of our nation and the happiness of
the Far East toc much. (Extracts)
* * *

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatah 1
Consulate General, Shanghai, Ohin
CHINESE PRESS REVIEW
* **
American Consulate General, Shanghai, China
NO.204
March 27. 1948
EDITCRIAL COMMELT
Our Policy Toward Japan
Chung Yang Jih Pao (KT Organ). Shanghai
March 27, 1948
The current trip to Japan of the mission led by William H. Draper Jr.,
U.S. Under Sccretary of the Army, is considered quite important by pedple.
We ent to avail ourselves of this opportunity of reaffirming China's atti-
tude toard Japan, so as tó renove any possible misunderstanding.
As soon as Janan surrendered in the autumn of 1945, President Chiang
Kai-shek declared that China would not take any retaliatory measures against
the people of Japen. So long as Japanese militarism does not revive to
threaten the security of China and the peace of the Far East, China is will-
ing to see Japan, as a democratic nation, live peaceably with the other
nations bordering on the Tacific. It is on the basis of this policy that
we wish to explain China's attitude as follows:
First, ve vish to express adniration to General MacArthur for what he
has achieved in controlling Japan. General MacArthur's policy has gradually
been made less rigid in proportion to the extent of the democratization of
Japan, so es to mako the Japanese people uphold their own Constitution, have
confidence in their denocrntic system, cultivate their desire to live peace-
ebly vith the other nations bor lering on the Pacific, and especially, have
confidence in the democratic nations, so that they will not again think of
the "Yamato spirit" nd "Dai Ninponism" vhich prevailed when their country
vas engaged in militaristic nggression against other nations. Consequently,
ve feel that Genural MacArthur's policy is right.
Secondly, we certainly have no intention of disrupting or restricting
the economic life of the Japanese people. If we want to transform Japan into
a peaceful, democratic nation, we must first make Japanese economy self-
supporting by enahling Japan to engage in peaceful trade with the other na-
tions bordering on the Paeific. The question of Japan's industrial level
should be carefu ly considered by all the nations which share in the res-
ponsibility o' controlling Japan. So long as Japan's industrial equipment is
such that it cannot serve as a basis for the rebuilding of Japanese militarism,
China will not become jealous of it.
Thirdly, while we view with sympathy the organization and growth of
democratic, socinlist political parties in Japan, yet we oppose the revival
of the old political parties and also the activities of the Japanese Com-
munist Party and its front organizations. What we hope for is true demooracy,
especially the organization ond grovth of democratic, socialist political
perties, for only this kind of political parties will be able to lead Japanese
politics to thorough democratization and to prevent the democratization of
Japan being utilized by the Communists, so that a coup d'etat like those
which have occurred in Rumania and Hungary will not take place in Japan. That
is why we approve and support the political parties led by Katayama, Ashida.
and others, as well as the Cabinets hended by these men.
Finally, we like to see the nations bordering on the Pacific conolude a
peace treaty with Japan at an early date. It is our hope that this important
pact, which will bring peaceful conditions to the Far East, will materialise
at an early date through the sincerity and mutual understanding of the dif-
ferent nations bordering on the Paoific.
The above four points represent the common views of the Chinese Govern-
ment and of patriotic Chinese in general. We do not deny that many people

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.97)
in China have greatly exaggerated the United States' effort to build up Jap
expressing the fear that this would once again convert Japan into an asgre
nation. e feel that this viewpoint is wrong in that the Communist bandits
have used it to cover up the actual crisis facing China's territorial inte-
grity and sovereignty in the Northeast. The prevalence of this viewpoint
will cause us to ignore the realities of the Northeast problem, and this is
what we want solemnly to point out. (Full Translation)
* * *
Bidding Farewell to Peoplc's Political Council
Ta Kung Pro (Independont, Politicnl Science Group), Shanghai
Larch 27, 1948
The Nationa? Assembly is schoduled to open on March 29, and naturally,
the Peoplels Polit ical Council hich has served as a token public opinion
organization, is going to be folled un. The PPC members vho are at present
in lianking vill hold n tea party this afternoon to say goodbye to one ano-
ther, and this is roing to be a historic meeting.
The first session of tlr first PPC opened at Hankow on July 6, 1938.
At that time Hankow ras the in base of tho war against Japan. There were
altogether more than 2Cc PPC mombers, and by and large, these people commanded
the rerpect of the gereral putlic. This was especinlly true of the "D" type
PPC members, who were nominated by the Supreme National Defense Council and
decided y the Central Exccutive Com ittee of +he Kuomintang. These people
included levlers of various partien and cli-ues as well as leaders in various
welks of life, ar i vere +ruly symbolie of the unity of the whole nation.
People have genera'ly regarled the PPC as a miniature public opinion or-
ganizetion, but as a matter of fact, the PPo was more significant in that
it vas symbolic or unity in resist ng Jananese aggression. Unity gave the
nation great stren th anl made it possible for the nation to earry on until
victory was won. When one thinks of this, how can one help being sorry.
Besides being a smbol of unity in resistance, the PPC also did quite a
rood dea! in exprensing public opinion and in coading the Government on. In
Chungking days, eacl sescion of the PrC seemed like an examination for the
high Government ofiicinls, against vhom criticism, interpellation, laughing
and scolding was leve.ed.
Later on, the rumier of Prc members tho were elected was increased,
while the number of "p" type members was gradually reduced, and, strangely
enough, the PFC also became less vigorous. The PPC has long ago become less
strong and less ef etive than it once was, and during the past year it has
existed almost in name only.
PPC, you may go now. You can be said to have done your part. Can your
successor be symbolic of the peace, unificntion, democracy and progress of
the nation? This is hat we shall seek for nipht nnd day! (Extracts)
**
Change in U.S. Policy Tovard Pnlestine
Cheng Yien Pao (Ioenl KiT Organ, Connected with Wu Shao-shu), Shanghai
Narch 27, 1942
Abandonment by the United Stntes of the Palestine partition plan is
dosigned to serve an important purpose. The Arab League is very influential
in South estern Asin and controls a large number of the oil fields there.
If the United States continues to supoort the implomentation of the partition
plan, she vill lose the sympathy of all Arab nations, and in the event of
another vorld war, not only will the Arab nations not side with Britain and

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.99)
: 8P - Mr. Butler
DATE: Apr11 2, 1948
TO
suBJEcT: Consideration of SC 242/25, Level of Econom1o Life 1n
Japan: Policy Towards Japanese Industry in Steering
Committee of Far Eastern Commission on Maroh 30, 1948.
On March 30, 1948 the Steering Committee discussed SC 242/25,
Level of Economic Life in Japan: Policy Towards Japanese Industry.
The positions of the various delegetions are as follows:
Australia
general reservation in absence
of instructions
Canada
favorable
China
amendments circulated as SC 242/22,
Feb. 26, 1948. Stated eagerness to
have paper on subject approved
France
general reservation; unable to vote
on paper. Submitted technical viewe
1n SC 242/22.
894.60/4-248
India
generally favors
Netherlends : favorable; minor reservations
Philippines : general reservation
USSR
general reservation; no instructions
UK
generally favor
POLICY PLANNING
S
FILED
STAFF
statement: "We do not have finel
instructions on paper as a whoke,
APR 9 1948
although we do have instructions
on some pending amendments."
Department of State
894.60
The Chinese representative formally presented his amendments
to the Steering Committee (SC 242/22).  On March 2, 1948, a
technical ad hoc subcommittee of the Steering Committee had been
established to consider these amendments. In its report it appeared
that France had generally supported the Chinese amendments while the
U.S., Uk, Netherlands and Canada had almost consistently opposed them
The
C
-248
S
B

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
The Committee decided to discuss the firth Chinese amendment
which proposed to add the following new paragraph 7 (origimal
paragraph 7 to become paragraph 8):
"The provisions of this policy should not be
interpreted as excluding the reparations re-
movals for such categories of industrial
facilities other than those specified herein
for the purpose of reducing the Japanese in-
dustrial war potential."
While certain members of the Committee disputed the wording
of this paragraph, it soon became evident that general sentiment
in the Committee was divided into two camps: (1) those who
wanted to leave the door open so that additional reparations not
provided for in this paper could be taken from Japan -- China,
France; (2) those who desired to draw a line which would prevent
removals beyond those provided for in this paper - UK, New Zealand.
The Chairman of Comaittee I reported that the majority of the mem
bers of that Committee favored the latter view.
The Chinese representative expressed the point of view of the
Chinese Delegation towards Japanese industry in an extensive state-
ment (attached) -- the thesis of which was that "in determining a
policy towards Japanese industrial levels there should be a fair
end equitable balance between the needs of the reparations claimant
countries and the peaceful needs of Japan". The Chinese repre-
sentative did not consider that the paper had been suffioiently
studied from the reparations angle. "He further stated that al-
though it was important to reach an early decision on the paper,
it was "more important to settle the issue in such a manner as
would achieve a fair balance between the requirements of the
claimant countries and the peaceful needs of Japan."
The British representative stated that he could not agree with
this interpretation and registered his opposition to any attempt
to link the subject of level of industry to that of reparations.
The Frenoh representative supported the Chinese thesis.  It
should be noted that the Chinese and French representatives gave
each other mutual support throughout the discussion on this paper7
The Australian representative stated that while he realized that
it was impossible to deny a connection between the two problems,
nevertheless, some regard must be given to steps already taken in
the Commission. First, a policy on the Peaceful Needs or Japan
had been approved by the Commission  January 23, 19477. Then
the policy on the Reduction or Japanese War Potential was approved
August 14, 19477 which provided that certain war supporting
industries

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.95)
一 3 -
industries should be reduced to the peacetime needs of Japam and
that the surplus should be used for reparations. He further state
that the present proposal was an attempt to estimate the peacetime
needs of Japan relating to these particular industries and that any
attempt at this stage to examine this paper in relation to the
needs of the reparations claimants would destroy the whole basis
on which this particular paper was based.
The Canadian representative associated himself with the point
of view expressed by the Australian representative. The Committee
agreed to consider the Chinese amendments at the next meeting by
discussing the paper paragraph by paragraph. The UK representative
suggested that each delegation request its government to submit
all amendments by April 20. In this connection special reference
was made to the U.S., Australia and the USSR.
Attached:
Statement by Chinese Member
9AL D
NA:ALDunning/ggg

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
STATEMENT BY CHINESE MEMBER ON POLICY
TOWARDS JAPANESE INDUSTRY, S0 242/19.
"I should like to take this opportunity to make a
few remarks on the Poliey Towards Japanese Industry,
SC 242/19. The Chinese Delegation has a keen interést
in this paper and attaches great importance to an
early agreement of a policy towards Japanese industry,
in the hope that Japan will be able to rehabilitate and
reconstruct her peaceful economy. This desire was fully
evidenced by the active participation of the Chinese
representative, in company with others, in the sub-com-
mittee and committee discussions on this question.
Following the completion of the preliminary deliberations
in the working committee, it was the Chinese Delegation
which first took the initiative in this Committee to
submit a concrete amendment supported by relevant data.
Our proposed amendments however as embodied in SC 242/22,
are the result of a careful study and are based on the
conviction that reparations removals and the establish-
ment of an industrial level for Japan are closely re-
lated. The close connection between these two questions
was fully recognized in paragraph ll of the Potsdam
Declarations which I quote: 'Japan shall be permitted
to maintain such industries as will sustain her economy
and permit the exaction of just reparations in kind'.
Consequently, 1in determining a policy towards Japanese
industrial levels there should be a fair and equitable
balance between the needs of the reparations claimant
countries and the peaceful needs of Japan. It is re-
grettable to say that the problem of Japanese industrial
levels have never been studied sufficiently from this
point of view, as a matter of faot, a proposed polioy
SC 242/19, has never been referred to Committee No. 1
for examination. In the opinion of the Chinese Dele-
gation, the program in SC 242/19 as a whole lacks such
balance. It is our earnest hope that Committee No. 1:
Reparations, should be directed to undertake, at the
earliest practical moment, a comprehensive study of all
possible means by which 'just reparations in kind' may
be provided for in'such a manner and quantities as will
contribute to the early reconstruction of the Allied
countries so ruthlessly devastated by Japan. I believe
that such a study will give for a better perspective of
the problems in their entirety.
"As regards the course of deliberation in the technical
ad hoo subcommittee of the Steering Committee, I am
informed

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
informed that ne such interest was shown in the course
of the consideration of the Chinese amendments. In
view of the fact that there are no convincing technieal
reasons advanced against such amendments, it may be
presumed that they are satisfactory, but by no means
prove in all their details, from the technical point
of view.
"May I recall the history of FEC discussions on the sub-
ject. The Commission at the outset realized the fact
that it might take a long time to determine an industrial
level for Japan. Therefore, a program of interim re-
movals was first proposed in March 1946, which resulted
in a number of policy statements, covering 13 categories
of industrial assets. It was its intention that a
so-called quoted ceiling should be placed on Japanese
industrial levels for the purpose of removing excessive
capacity for interim reparations and that a comprehensive
level should be decided upon at a later date. Compli-
mentary to the interim level was the assured level, which
was to give Japan a minimum, or the so-called quoted
floor, of certain categories of industrial assets that
would not be subject to removal under subsequent dis-
armament or reparations programs, but after a lapse of
almost two years, most, if not all, of the interim levels
have, in fact been suggested to be the comprehensive
levels. Some levels have been recommended without even
thorough discussions as to their technical details, such
as the ball and roller bearing and the thermal power
industries. Some levels are set even higher than the
interim levels, such as that for the aluminum industry.
"In view of the above reasons, I cannot share the opinion
that all angles of the problem have been thoroughly ex-
plored and that it is time to vote on the paper. It is,
of course, important to reach an early decision on the
object, but in the view of my delegation it may be even
more important to settle the issue in such a manner as
would achieve a fair balance between the requirements of
the claimant countries and the peaceful needs of Japan.

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.94)
D-998
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 331
RESTRICTED
APR 1. 1348
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
DEPARSTATE
is
Shan hai, China, April 3. 1948.
SUFJECT: Strike Reparutions Pro ram
1948 AHR 13
THE HONORABLE
DC/L
THE SHCRETARY OF STATE,
另
T
WASHTTO, D. C.
3748
SIR:
894.60
I have the honor to refer to the Department's Air-
gram of March 17, 8:35 a.m., requesting copies of all
local material related to the Strike program of repara-
tions for Jepan nd to enclose a full translation of an
ACTION
editorial which appeared in the April 2 issue of the SIN
WEN PAO (KMT-supervised C.C. Organ) on this subject.
COPI
The edltoriel has been quick to draw a comparison
,between our modifie! policy toward Japan and the Con-
gressional proposal to include Spain under the Marshall
Plan. It says: "In our opinion this way of doing things
on the part of the United States is unwise, for while it
b
is the duty of the United States to try to stem Soviet
aggression, yet the rolicy of opposing one type of
totalitarian force by buildin: up another type of totali-
tarian force would not produce any cood results. This
way of doing things would no doubt cause the United States
to lose the sy.pathy of millions upon millions of people
in the world so that Soviet Russia would obtain even more
effective propaganda material and also an excuse for ex-
panding her armed forces."
H
5
C
Respectfully yours,
8
Asmelt
9 A 12
John M. Cabot
APR 22
American Consul General
Encdosure
atut!
Full Translation of editorial, "A Study of U.S.
Poliay Toward Japan", published in SIN WEN PAO,
April 2, 1948.
File No. 800
I44
DEdgar: of
Original end Hbctograph to Department.
Copy to Embassy: Nanking.

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.98)
EDITORIAL COMMENT
A Study of U.S. Policy Towa' Japan
Sin Wen Pao (KaT-supervised, C.C. Organ). Shanghai
Apri1 2.1948
Recent events indicate that the United States has now openly taken the
course of helping Japan to recover, and that she has been taking very positive
steps in this direction. Not long ago we heard that the U.S. Department of
the Army had urged that a loan of US$760 million be extended to Japan to
enable her to buy Anerican raw cotton and to give relief to Japanese civilians.
During the latter part of last month, U,S. Under Secretary of the Army Draper
personally went to Japan to investigate conditions there and had long seoret
talks with General MacArthur. Draper expressed the hope that Japan would
become the "factory of the Far East" and proposed that the reparations pro-
gram be nade as liberal as possible. The crafty Japanese certainly would not
let slip the opnortunity afforded by this expression of views by Draper, so
the Aslidn Cabinet imnedintely converted Kateyana's five-year plan into a
three-year plan and requested a loan of US$3 billion. There are people in
the U.S. Congress ho agree to extend a big loan to Japan nd who want the
Harshall Plan to be cxtended to include Jro n. All these dovelopments have
made us npprehensive.
Some tine go the Strike progran vould raise the productive power of
Jaoan to a point which ns 125 percent of thnt which obtained during the
perioi 1930-34, but the Japanese vere still dissatisfied with it. Recently,
they have dema ded thet Japan's productive power be raised to a point which
is 150 percent of thnt which obtained during that period, on the ground that
only vhen she has attained thi? industrinl level will she become "self-
surficient". The U.S, authorities are now considering this new plan of Japan.
How that J.S. policy to nrd Japan has developed to such a stage, we
re lly cannot remnin silent any longer. During the past tvo years we have
consistently opposed MacArthur's occupation policy, but U.S. policy toward
Japon is getting closer nd closer to dnger. The problen of Japanese war
criminals is no longer mentioned; the reparations program is being made as
liberal as possible; uhe order for the dissolution of the Znibatsu hns
virtu 1ly been rescinded; the remnants of Japanese Fascists continue to be
active, and even part of Japon's var industries vill be preserved. It is not
only we Chinese vho nre opposed to this vny of doing things, but even far-
sighted people in tho United States itsolf are vorried about it. We feel that
this wny of doing things vill no doubt encourage the revival of Japanese
militarism, and are afrnid that the United States may suffer a second "Pearl
Harbor". It is to be regretted that U.S. officinl quarters still do not attach
much imnortance to these views of ours.
An analysls of the U.S. attitude shows that hesides economic reasons,
the main reason for the U.S. effort to build un Jrpan is that the United
States wants to get prenared for possible war against Russia. The nore in-
tense the U.S.-Soviet "cold wnr" becomes, the more anxious the United States
is to build un Japn. U.S. military officers have openly declared that "when
the third World War brenks out, Japanese youths will put on U.S. military
uniforns and fight shoulder to shoulier vith U.S. troops." This statement ex-
plains the whole content of U.S. policy toward Japan. And it is on the basis
of this samo psychology that it is being plrnned to include Spain in the
Marshall Pln. In our opinion, this vay of doing things on the part of the
United Stntes is unwise, for vhile it. is the duty of the Imited States to try
to stem Soviet aggression, yet the policy of opposing one type of totalitarian
force by huilding up another type of totalitarian force would not produce any
good results. This way of doing things rould no doubt cause the United States
to lose the syapatly of millions unon millions of peoplo in the vorld, so

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
that Soviet Russia would obtain even more effective propaganda material and
also an excuse for expanding her armed forces. In regard to U.S. policy
toward Japen, we do not want to hear of the old formla of an "industrialised
Japan and an agricultural China". The Chinese people hope that the United
States has regard for the traditional friendship betreen China and herself,
and that she vill change her policy toward Japan at the earliest possible
date.
Finally, we urge that our Government authorities immediately express a
firm attitude and clearly make knowm China's basic stand, so as to prevent
U.S. policy toward Japan from heading toward an even more dangerous course.
(Full Tranalation)
★ * *

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.98)
: - EDITORIAL COMMENT
A Study of U.S. Policy Toward Japan
Sin Wen Pao (KAT-supervised. C.C. Crgan). Shanghai
Apr11 2. 1948
Recent events indicate that the United States has now openly taken the
course of helping Japan to recover, and that she has been taking very positive
steps in this direction. Not long ago ve heard that the U.S. Department of:
the Army had urged that a loan of US$760 million be extended to Japan to
enable her to buy American raw cctton and to give relief to Japanese civilians.
During the latter part of last month, U,S. Under Secretary of the Army Draper
personally vent to Japan to investigate conditions there and had long seoret
talks vith General MacArthur. Draper expressed the hope that Japan would
become the "factory of the Far East" and proposed that the reparations pro-
gram be nade as liberal as possible. The crafty Jrpanese certcinly would not
let slip the opportunity afforded by this expression of views by Draper, so
the Ashida Cabinet imnediately converted Kateyona's five-year plan into a
thrce-year nlan and roquested a lonn of US$3 billion. There are people in
tho U.S. Congress ho agree to oxtend a big lonn to Japan nd who want the
Marshall Pln to be extonded to include Japan. All these developments have
made us nnprchensivo.
Some tine go the Strike progran vould raise the productive power of
Junan to a point which vns 125 nercent of thnt which obtained during the
period 1930-34, but the Japanese vere still dissatisfied with it. Recently,
they have dema ided thnt Janan's productive pover be raised to a point which
is 150 percent of that which obtained during that period, on the ground that
only vhen she has att ined thi: industrinl level will she become "self-
su!ficient". The U.S. authorities nre now considering this new plan of Japan.
Now that J.S. policy toerd Japan has developed to such a stage, we
really cannot remain silent any longer. During the prst tvo years we have
consistently opposed MacArthur's occupation policy, but U.S. policy toward
Japan is getting closer and closer to danger. The problem of Japanese war
criminals is no longer mentioned; the renarations program is being made as
liberal ns possible; the order for the dissolution of the Zaibatsu has
virtu-lly been rescinded; the remnants of Japanese Fascists contimue to be
active, and even part of Japan's vnr industries vill be preserved. It is not
only wo Chinese who are opposed to this vny of doing things, but even far-
sighted people in tho United States itsolf nre worried about it. We feel that
this way of doing things vill no doubt encourage the revival of Japanese
militarism, and are afraid thnt the United States may suffer a second "Pearl
Harbor". It is to bo regretted thnt U.S. officinl quarters still do not attach
much imnortance to these views of ours.
An analysis of the U.S. attitude shows that hesides economic reasons,
the main reason for the U.S. effort to build un Jrpan is that the United
States wants to get prepared for possible war against Russia. The more in-
tense the U.S.-Soviet "cold war" becomes, the more anxious the United States
is to build up Japn. U.S. military officers have openly declared that "when
the third World War brenks out, Japanese youths will put on U.S. military
uniforms and fight shoulder to shoulder with U.S. troops." This statement ex-
plains the whole content of U.S. policy toward Japan. And it is on the basis
of this same psychology that it is being plonned to include Spain in the
Marshall Pl n. In our opinion, this vay of doing things on the part of the
United States is unwise, for vhile it is the duty of the United States to try
to stem Soviet aggression, yet the policy of opposing one type of totalitarian
force by building up anothor type of totalitarian force would not produce any
good results. This way of doing things vould no doubt cause the United States
to lose the sympatly of millions unon millions of peoplo in the world, so

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
thac Soviet Russia vould obtain even more effective propaganda material and
also an excuse for expanding her armed forces. In regard to U.s. policy
tord Japen. wa do not rt to hear of the old formula of an "industrialised
Japn and en cgricult ual China". The Chinese people hope that the United
States has regard for the tradivional friendship hetween China and herself,
and that ste ill charge her policy tovard Japan at the earliest possible
drto.
Finally, we urge that our Govornment authorities immediately express a
firm attitude and c sarly make knom China's banic stand, so as to prevent
IS. poliey tefard Japen fron heading toverd an even more dangerous course.
(Full Trauslation)
On 1he Dispute over Navional Ansembly Seats
Lih Pao (General Laber union Orran)  Shanghai
Apr1l 2, 1949
The current disn 'e over National Assenbly seats reflects the poor or-
genization of the lif "erent politioal parties in China and the wrong measures
which they have taken. The Kuonuntang is the largest party in China which
has teer leading th rovolution and nationai reconstmuction, While during
the rast fifuy years nd mere the Kuoauntang has achieved great things which
nust not be forgotton, yot it has also displayed nexeusable veaknesses, We
should point out that in a nurter of wnys, the selection and election of
Hational Assonhly delegates this tine have not only disaonointed the people,
but also proved unsot isfact ory to the Kuomintane nembers themselves. The
respensible autherities ourhe to renlise the Pact that it is not the Party
memburs, but rathe: the Party itself, which should be held responsible for
the fact thet sone Party menbers have shoon a centrifugal tendency.
Secondly, it is a)so on undeniab e fact that the orgenization of the
Lemocratic Socialist nd Young China Parties is rather loose and that their
constituent elements are rntier coanlicated. During the recent elections
the system of one party yieluine seats to anothcr was adopted, but among
the members of the Lenocratie Socialist and Young China Parties who accepted
the seats yielded by Kuomintang menhers are many who do not command the
respect of the public or vho are not peonle of integrity. This is something
unfair. So far ns the future of democracy in China is concerned, this is
not a blessing to the St ite or the people.
Fron the current dispute over National Asscmbly seats, we can see that
our current notiona! crisis lies in the fact that both those in the Govarn-
ment and those outside it are interested only in the form rather than in the
substance, of democracy. We sl:ould ronlise that tho Communist bandits are
utilizing this opportunity to enlarge their repellion. If all those con-
cerned stiil do not thoroughly nke up and tnko fundamental measures to save
the situation, then the tragedy vhere bofore one nation had concluded the
debnte nmong its o'm Government leaders, the troops of nnother nation had
arrived,  recorded in Chinose history, vill actually be recnacted. (Extracts)
***
Strictly Prohibit ublic Funds from Bocoming Idle
Capital
Chung ang Jih Pno (KMT Organ), Shanghni

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.91)
RESTRICTED
No.104
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
merican Legetion, Wellington, New Zealand
pril 5, 1948
Subject: R-ection to "Strike" keport on Japanese Reparatfons
1948 APR 15
1
06
心
OFIVE
The onoraule
SN OF OCCUPIED
The Secretary of State,
LOOMIC AFFAI
14
vesaington.
opw.
Sir:
REPAR/HENT/ OFLSTAIE
1 neve te onor to reter to the Depertment's circurar
894.60/4-548
eirgram ren 17, 14, : 3t .m., d to submit a report
seas Consultents Incorporated.
26
1/
There i: enclosed a news urticle (f'rom the New Zealand
Herald, ucklind, o1 rcu 11, 1v4o) concernine tne release of
this report. It will oe nsted tnat empuesis is given to the
unorriciul neture or tnt stuay.
Inere nave oeen no puolic stutements by New Zealand Govern-
ment ofricitis unc, despite & curerul cneck of all important
newspapers, the Legution nas found no euitorial comment. Al-
though vew ealune newsp ners nave suown considerable general
interest in the pust in the J punese proulem, their neglect of
the "Strike" Report may ave been ue to its beine over-shadowed
by tne suicide of ir. Jun asaryk ana importent local industrial
disputes.
The only specific comment on the Overseas Consultants
keport was in The Standerd's weekly comnentary on world affairs
by "Criticus". Mention of this hus aiready been made in the
Legation's desnetch no.90 of arcn 2y. However, as of possible
interest, the full text of his renarks is us follows:
CS/A
"U.S. OLICY IN JAPAN"
"The etmosphere of war whicn is peine created at present
is built on illusions of a 'fient ror democracy' by means of a
preventive internationai war und suppression of 'ugeressor
nutions.' Aow, if ever there was an att:ressor nation, it is
八
the Junohese nati on. Yet, on aren l) we read tue rollowing
cable:
washineton. aren lo.
tme serapint of tne present allied policy on
Jupunese repurations une tt reouiloine of key Jup-
tnese inuustries such us steel to levels nigner tnan
their war-time peak 1s reconmnended in u renort re-
O
s by the t.. screr or te rmy.
"Now, i an the los! me to uvoe te lustine de-industrial-
APR 27 1948
joutlon t any country in the worlu. ut inoustrialisation must
iot be curried vut by liturists. are the Jupunese militerists
out or power?
1f
71.5
RESTRIUTED An

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.99)
AIR MAIL
RESTRICTED
Wellington, New Zealand
Despatch No. 104
-2-
Apr11 5, 1948
"If we can trust General Macarthur's statement a complete
change of heart hes come over the Japanese. On September 1,
the following cable appeared in the press:
Tokio, September 1.
Right rather than might has been our criterion, Gen-
eral MacArthur said. The fruits of this policy are now
self-evident. Japan today stands out as one of the few
places in a distraught world where, in spite of an eco-
nomy of critically short supply there is a minimum of
fear, confusion and unrest - where the people are dili-
gently endeavourine to expiate the breach of peace for
which their nation stands universally condemned, to over-
come the poverty left by war and defeat and to elevate
themselves to trusted, useful membership in the family
of nations.
This sounds all very good. But can we trust the General's state-
ments? Statements coming out of Japan are severely censored
and in a recent news item it was stated that one correspondent
who wrote stories considered critical by the authorities was
subjected to interrogation and threats and his home was raided
by U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Detachment agents.
"On the other hand we heve testimonials of qualified New
Zealand travellers who are out of the reach of American censor-
ship. Professor Sutherland has this to say:
'Economically the Americans have left the Japanese to
their own resources. Bleck marketing in food is so exten-
sive that the police are quite powerless to check it. In-
flation is an enormous duncer. Generally there seems to
be much outward conformity as & result of the Allied oc-
cupation, but little inner change.'
"Mr. R.H.Quilliam, New Zealand representative on the War
Crimes Tribunal:
'The Emperor renounced his divinity; it was taken up by
General Macirthur. He has surrounded himself with a staff
which, I think, are most incompetent for the job they are
doing. I did not form a high opinion of the Japanese and
the more I saw of them the less I liked them. I hope we'll
be very careful before we give them full trust again.'
The Standard is an official organ of the Labor Party. The
anonymous articles of "Criticus" may therefore be taken as indica-
tive of the views of at least an important section of the Party,
although in this particular case he would certainly not be supported
by
RESTRICTED

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.94)
AIR MAIL
RESTRICTED
Wellington, New Zealand
Despatch No. 104
-3-
April 5, 1948
by the Government, and his position often seems more hostile
to American policy than the official editorials of The Standard
or the Party's daily newspaper, The Southern Cross.
Respectfully yours,
JohS Senie.
John S. Service
Charge d'affaires ad interim
att
Enclosure:
atT
55
Article from The New Zealand Herald dated March 1l, 1948
Armistead M. Lee/GH
File No.711
To Department in original and hectograph
RESTRICTED

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRI OTED
on the subject AOTIONTo 
REPORT ON JAP REPARATIONS
Source: The Ney Sealand Herals
(Auckland)
Date:
March 11, 1948
REBUILD JAPANESE INDUSTRY
U. S. REPORT OPPOSES PRESENT POLICY
(Recd. 11.30 p.m.) Washington, March 10
The scrapping of the present Allied policy on Japanese repare-
tions and the rebuilding of key Japanese industries, such as steel,
to leyels higher than their wartime peak are recommended in a report
released by the Secretary of the Army, Mr. Kenneth Royall, today.
The report, which is known as the "Strike Report," was prepared
by a civilian group operating as Overseas Consultants, Incorporated,
under the chairmanship of Mr. Clifford Strike.
The report was prepared under contract to the Army. which is
reported to have allowed a maximum of $650,000 for the work.
The report is in line with the tremd in some Govermment quarters
and in business circles for rebuilding Japan into a great indastrial
country with a "controlled" war potential. This contrasts with the
present Allied policy, which aims to eliminate the war potential and
rebuild Japan into a nation of consumer industries.
Drop Prosent Policy
The basic principle of the report is that the present United
States policy on Japanese reparations and the future level ef indus-
try - a policy which has been approved by the Far Eastern Cemmissiom-
- should be dropped because it would prevent Japan frem reachiag a
self-sustaining economy within a reasonable period.
The present policy of the United States and the Far Bastern
Commission is based on the theory that Japan's industry always was
top-heavy in industries valuable only for war. This policy was devel-
oped from the report which Mr. Bdwin Pauley made when he was President
Truman's personal representative on Japanese reparations. Concurrent-
ly with the release of the Strike Report, the State Department last
night released the text of the Pauley Report.
Clash Predicted
The United Press correspondent in Washington says a big clash
between the Army and the State Department on the reparations issue is
in prospect.
There has been an indication that influential members of the
armed services agree with the philosophy of the Strike Report to baild
up Japan into a powerful industrial country. Important members of
Congress are expected to approve any policy which would step the remeve
al of reparations from Japan. Representative spokesmen ef the basimese
world also favor a more potent Japan.
The correspendent says, however, that even if the Umited States
reversed its policy there is little possibility that it seuld get the
Far Eastern Commission to change. Chins, which has a veto in the
commission, stamds to get the largest share of reparatiens. The
United States favors siving China 30 per cent.

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
SCGMLT
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY
WASHINGTON. D. C.
8 April 1948
MEMORANDUM FOR GENERAL DRAPER:
Subject: Civil Property Custodian Problems in Japan.
1. You will recall the memorandum (Tab. "A") which I prepared for
your information in Tokyo regarding civil property custodian problems.
It is my understanding that you discussed this matter with General
MacArthur and that general agreement was reached by you with him that
no further directives on civil property custodian problems would be
required, but that where specific questions arose these would be handled
informally by Army messages based on State-Army Coordination.
2. Further in line with this agreement between you and General
MacArthur was the position tentatively developed by you and Mr. Kennan
that the U.S. would submit no new policy papers to FEC.
8
6
3. Some question regarding such a solution has already been raised
by certain members of the Department of State who feel that FEC directives
are required on these various problems. It would appear, therefore, that
Mr. Kennan's views have not yet percolated through all the State Depart-
ment. I understand from General Schuyler, however, that Mr. Kennan has
already written his draft NSC paper, which will probably eventually
achieve the desired result.
4. Meanwhile, I recommend that you approve discussions within the
Army and with the State Department with a view to obtaining agreement
on a message to General MacArthur along the lines of the draft contained
8
in Tab. "B".
h
run
8
T.N.D.
Attach.
ok
Tab. "A"
Tab. "B"
DECLASSIFIED
E.0. 11652. Sec. 3(E) and 5(D) or (E)
NN0.76.00.4.4
By.CD/MT NARS. Date...SEP...B

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
April 9, 1948
OE - Mr. Martin
Subject: Civil Property Custodian Problems in Japan.
There are attached a copy of a memorandum frem Col. Dupuy
to Under Secretary Draper regarding civil property custodian
problems in Japan and a copy of a draft message to Gemeral
MacArthur from Mr. Draper on the same subjest. I understand
from Col. Dupuy that Mr. Draper diseussed this questiem with
General MacArthur and that general agreement was reashed by them
that no further directives on civil property custediam problems
would be required but that where specifie questions arose these
would be handled informally by Army messages, based en State and
Army coordination. There was apparently also a tentative positiem
developed between Mr. Draper and Mr. Kenean that the U. S. would
submit no new policy papers to FEC - presumably om this subjest.
Mr. Draper has given these papers to the Department on an
informal basis with the request that we express our views and if
possible concur in the despatch of the cable.
There are two questions presented. The broader one deals
with the whole idea of SCAP's authority to take action in areas
within the policy jurisdiction of the FEC but on whieh no poliey
guidance has been given. The narrower one deals with the partieular
question of policy of interest to the civil property custodiaa. The
The Army Department would like to establish a broad arrangement by
which SCAP would understand that he is to act independently on
matters within FEC jurisdiction but when no policy direction exists,
with the understanding, however, that he would inform Washington
what steps he believes he should take, and be given U. S. guidance.
The Army Department would also like to begin sush a poliey with
this cable, using it as an example or precedent. If such a pro-
cedure cannot be applied to this individual problem, the Army would
like to have the general poliey worked out and SCaP informed.
I believe the general poliey referred to is very elose te the
"Snow formula" which was prepared in cable form and submitted to
the Army Department several months ago but whish became invelved in
SECRET
SECET
a more

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.94)
SECROT
a mare complat peliey statement and wae fimally abendened. the
idee as epressed in the draft under diseussien at thet time stils
seems a useful ene and might be re-mcamined.
Would you please examine the attashed material and prepare a
Letter of reply to Mr. Draper, indieating what astiem the Dapartmee
believes should be taken en the property papers themselves and es
the more general approseh as wall. Weuld yeu please eensult with
Mr. Allison and General Snow in the preparatiem of this reply.
Philander P. Claxton, Jr.
Atts.
Memo to Mr. Draper
Draft Cable to Gen. MacArthur
cc: NA - Mr. Allison
L/P- Mr. Snow
SECRET

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.97)
2Q2X
Tokye, Japen
31 Mareh 1968
MEMORANDUM FOR: Under Seeretary Draper
SUBJECT:
Civil Property Custodian Problems
1. At a conference this morning, General Tansey, the Civil
Property Custodian, and his staff emphasised the urgent need fer
specific guidance on several problems with whieh he is new faeed.
He pointed out that inability to dispose of various types of property
is having a definite detrimental effect on the eeonomie resevery of
Japan. He understood the difficulties in obtaining poliey desisioms
from the Far Eastern Commission under present cireumstanees, and the
reluctance of the State Department to issue unilateral direstives save
in urgent emergencies.
2. One way out of this dilemma would be to attempt to fit all
of the problems with which General Tansey is faced within the frame-
work of existing policy directives and guidance. Obviously, SCAP
would require affirmation that these problems fall within the seepe
of his existing directives, partioularly in those cases which are
currently under consideration in Washington, such as the treatment
of United Nations property in Japan (SANACC 357), dispesition of
German assets in Japan (SANACC 255), disposition of foreign assets
(SANACC 236), treatment of Japanese patents (SANACC 369), and e
forth. It would appear that existing directives could be interpreted
to cover these, and probably all of the problems with whieh the Civil
Property Custodian is faced.
3. The mechanics of handling these and future problems where
SCAp is doubtful as to the scope of his autherity would them appear
to be simple. Each such problem should be referred to Washingten fer
guidance with, if possible, a proposed course of action recommended by
SCAP. Guidance and comment could then be offered by the State and Army
Departments within the framework of existing direstives, obviating the
necessity for formal unilateral U. S. directives save in unusual eases.
This will: (a) retain polioy responsibility in Washington, where it
belongs, (b) assure that policy desisions will be based on the recem-
mendations of those who will be responsible for implementation, and
(c) preclude long delays due to Far Eastern Commission indecision.
4. General MacArthur, of course, is familiar with the urgent
need for settlement of the current problems, and is equally cognisant
of the difficulties in obtaining satisfactory action by the Par
Eastern Commission on any mattar of substance. It is recommended,
therefore, that you disouss this matter with him with a view to:

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
a. Obtaining his views s to the desdrability es
broad application of cxisting direstives to the spesifis
problems of the Civil Property Custodiaa,
b. Suggesting that, in order to avoid the neseesity for
issuing interim directives which would ereate diplomatie
incidents in the Far Eastern Commission, the War and State
Departments tranamit by message to General MasArthur their
affirmation as to the scope of existing direstives with
respect to current custodian problems specifically autheri-
sing General MacArthur to take the action he feale mesessary
in each of these problems,
c. Agreeing 'hat in future cases where he may have doubt
as to his authority as SCAp, he may refer each sush preblem
to the State and Army Departments for guidance and cmt
with, if possible, his recommendations on the matter.
T. N. Dupuy
Lt. Col., GSO
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.98)
2221
SECRET
DRAFTMESSAGE
8 Apr11 1940
TO CINOFE TOKYO JAPAN
Personal to.MacArthur from Draper
In light of our discussion of civil property custodiam mmtters
during my recent visit to Tokyo, I propose taking the following steps:
a. Withdrawing from SANACC the various papers dealing with
such matters, such as SANACC 357 series (Treatment of United Nations
property in Japan ) SANACC 378/2 (Disposition of Assets in Japan ef
certain institutions) SANACC 255/23 (German Assets in Japan) SANACC
236/38 (Japanese external assets) and SANACC 369 (Treatment of
Japanese domestic and foreign patents).
b. Forwarding to you State and Army Department viows as to
the soope of your axcisting authority to handle these and similar
matters. I should appreciate if in your reply to this message you
would indicate what you would expect and desire these views to
contain.
c. Informing the Joint Chiefs of Staff of the actiom bedng
taken in regard to matters of this nature.
Your early comments are requested.
Distribution:
P&O
CAD (State)
c/s
JCS
AF
Navy
SECREF
Adm. Lehy
ID

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
D-1009
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 357
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
RESTRICTED
Shanghai, China, April 9, 19
1948 APR 16 PM 2 12
RTMENT OF STATE
RECEIVED
SUBJECT: Local Reaction to the Strike Roport
0
THE HONORABLE
STATE
0
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
E00F
WASHINGTON, D. C.
C
EN
OPTE
In continued compliance with the Department's cir-
cu r airgram of March 17, 8:35 a.m., that it be kopt
informed of all public reaction to the Strike Report, I
1/
have the honor to enclose two editorials which appeared
2/
in the Shanghai Chinese-language press of April 8, 1948,
one in the SIN WEN PAO (KMT-supervised C. C. Organ) and
the other in the YI SHIH PAO (Chinese Catholic Organ).
OE
e The SIN WEN PAo pegs its editorial on a recent des-
patch from Tokyo to the effect that the Japanese have
I0:FE
decided to organize a "Marine Security Bureau" which, it
O-osaye, is but a disguise for a new Ministry of the Navy.
DCR
After summarizing the several recent American recommenda-
tions for Japanese regeneration, the editorial says,
"with such encouragement Japan naturally forgets her
status as a defeated nation and is resolutely heading
toward rearmament". After recalling the Anglo-Japanese
Alliance of l902 and the Japanese attack on Britain in
Qrneyene
the last war, it prophesies that the United States with
its present program will reap the same reward as Britain
hovy
CS/V
did.
Ma-enn
As defense against American efforts, the editorial
proposes that (1) China must demand that Japan remain
disarmed; (2) China should solemnly notify the United
Nations that any unilateral action takon by any nation
regarding Japan which has not been agreed upon by China,
Britain, the United States and the U.S.S.R. or which is
not provided for in the Japanese peace treaty should be
considered null and void; (3) China should propose a
Southeast Asia Joint Defense Conference so that all nations
in Southeast Asia may unite in taking military precautions.
APR 22 1948
The YI SHIH PAO
化
RESTRICTED

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
RESTRICTED
follows an extremely anti-Communist path and which as a
polieies and objectives than have most other vernaoular
papers, apologetically opens its editorial with the state-
ment, "This journal has not in the past commented much on
the various problems connected with Japan", but goes on to
say:
"However, what is very surprising is that today
the United States is so liberal in her control of
Japan and so positive in her effort to build up Japan
that she has extended the limits of liberality and
forgotten the prerequisites. The Americans are too
naive and too headstrong."
As pointed out in my telogram No. 807 (repeated to
Nanking as 574) of April 9, 1948, both these editorials
also give indication of some concern over the selectien
of Mr. Paul G. Hoffman as administrator of the aid program
because of his identification with the Draper Mission, his
statements in favor of a revived Japan, and his concurrence
in the general conclusions of the Strike Report.
Respectively yours,
John M. Cabot
American Consul General
Enclosures: Ntt
1/ Copy of Translation of Editorial in SIN WEN PAO,
April 8, 1948, entitled, "Prevent Japan from Re-
arming."
2/
Copy of Translation of Editorial in YI SHIH PAO,
April 8, 1948, entitled, "Japan is Rising".
File No. 800
DEdgar:of
Original and Hectograph to Department.
Copy to Embassy, Nanking.
RESTRICTED
eU

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.96)
CHINESE PRESS REVIEW
2
American Consulate General, Shanghai, China
No.212
Apr11_8.1948
#1
EDITORIAL COMMENT
Prevent Japan from Rearming
Sin Wen Pao (iCTT-supervised. C.C. Orgen), Shanghai
ADril 1948
An East Asia Lews Agency dispatch from Tokyo on Aoril 5 stated that
Japen has decided to begin organizing on May 1 a "larine Security Bureau"
hich vill be something like a inistry of the Navy, and that in order to
avoid attacks by pu lic opinion in other countries, the Bureau mill temporarily
be put unier the linistry of Transportation and vill be expanded later on.
It is reported that this security force : ill consist of 125 special service
warshins and other craft. This nevs has come to us as a great shock.
Japar clained to be tho naval Pover of the Far East, and her imperialis-
tic expansion during the past sixty years depended largoly upon her sea
pover. She ultimately failed militarily because her Ny had been destroyed.
How, the Jananese overnment ants to rebuild the Japenese Navy, and vhat
thsir purnose is in doing this is too plain to need any explanation.
Needless to say, it is through encouragement given her by the United
States that Jopan no dores to attempt to rebuild her Navy. The Strike re-
nor isrued this year recomnends that the various kinds of heavy industries
in Japan be precerved, and regarding shipbuilding, it recommends thot by
1953 Jrnon bo ennbled to uild 648,000 tons of merchant shipping per year,
not to mention Armry eruioment. The Jopanese hoving scen this report, hon
can thce ir militariet ic dreans not revive? Upon his return to the Unitod States
from a surve o: conlitions in the Far Enst recently, Chnirman Kennan of the
Stato Denartnent's Plonniny Committeo recomrended to Marshall that he coneur
ith Genoral MacArthur's policw that the United States should consider the
inportonce of Jonan ilitarily and that she be made the anti-Communist bastion
in Asis. On the other hand, the Draper Hission hns proposed that the United
States do all she can to help Jrpan becone the factory of the Far East.
orccver, SCAP interds to aoolish the system o controlling Japan by issuing
dir ctivec, so as to enaole her to restore her adninistrative freedom and
to become a comolotely sovereign state. With such encouragement Japen na-
turally forgets her status as a defeated nntion, so she is resolutely heading
tovard rearmanent.
The reason why Generel MacArthur has been treating Japan so well is
doubtless because he vants to use J.prn to resist Soviet Russia, but we are
of th opinion that in doing this, ho is certainly rearing a tiger which will
tring disaster in the futuro. The Jananese are an ungrateful people. By
concluding the Anglo-Jap nese Alliance in 1902, Britain also vanted to use
Jopen's power to maintnin tho brlance of power in the Far East, but Japan used
various kinds of nssistance fron Britain to dofeat Czrrist Russia. When the
sucond World War core, Japan forgot entirely tho assistance vhich she had
received from Britain in tha past. At present tho United Statos is doing her
lest to build un Jpan, nd th re can ho no doubt thnt she  ill ronp tho same
results ns Britain di!
Under oxi sting conditior.s, Americn's desire to build up Jnpan as a bul-
wark against Soviet Russia hns nlmost becomo an immutable policy, and that
Japen, under the protection of the United States and taking advantnge of
tho J.c.-Soviot conflict, dll seck to rebuild hor armament, vill also becomo
r. f ct. Tnder theso tendencies, noturally it is China thich ill bo tho first
to be threntened, so vwo must make plans for coning with tho situntion well
in dvance. Consequently, wo vould like to make these throo proposals: (1)
Th: Goverrmont must demand agnin that Japan remnin disarmed. (2) The Govorn-
mont should solomnly notify the Unitod Nations that any unilatoral action takon
ly ny nation rogarding Japan, which has not been agrood upon by China. Britain

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.94)
tho United Statos nd Seviet Russia or which is not provided for in the
Joprneso ponce treaty to be conoludcd, should bo considored null and void.
(3) We should pronose the holding of a Southeasten Asia Joint Defense Can-
ference, so that al? the nations in Southeastern Asia may unite in taking
nilita preccutions. (Full Trans)ation)
***
A Re-study of Chinu's Policy toward Jepan
-- China nust first be regenerated before peace can be established-
Lo Pinr Jh Pao (KT Arr Crgcn). Shanchai
Aoril 8. 1948
Recent reports from various quarters indicated that U.S. policy tovard
Janan has charred somewhat, that is, the United Stntas hes lerrly indicated
her desire to tako positive steps to "rebutld Japan", wit) special enphasis
on raising Japan's industrial level vd ircreasing the tonntge of her merchant
rnrine. Wht is nost noterorthy is the fact that Paul G. Hoffuen, who has
just been appointed ns Foreign Ai? Airinistrator, ha ovenly advocated that
the United States strive vith deteruir ation to rebylld tho econoiy of Japan
so that the latter ill attain the highest possible industrial level. We
vish now to express some views regarling this opoblen for consideration by
thoso interested:
The first thing we ish to call the ntrention of the friendly foreign
nation to is that she should consider adopting the right policy. Here we
vish to ask evorybody to serionsly consider the reel reasons hy Javen em-
barked upon ag rescior, therey av.sing the secend Torld War. The mein reason
For this is thnt ty product ive pover of the Fer East was concentrated mainly
in Jaoan. Sinee the leili Reform, tho prolnctive porer of Janan developed
ver: ranidly. This gove rise to Jrpan's militerisn and aggression. On the
other hand, Chinr's 'fort to reforn vas unahlc to overcone the hindrances
of the various Po ers ue to the oxictence of the unccual treaties. For this
reason, Chine pecare noorer and weaker nd nere stupid everydey and becane
the object of Jrper's ilitarism and aggression. This caused a great change
in the vorld situation. Therefore, if any one wants to rebuild Japan's
productive po or, he must et the same tire ray attontion to the rebuilding
of China's prohuctiv. po r, for only in this ay :ill Japan not re-embark
upon agerossion.
Secondly, ve ish t point out that to devolop China's productivo pover
is to rebuild cl inese econony, and one cortninly should not becore pessimis-
tie si ply becaus of the existing difficulties. The present ccononic dif-
ficul+ies o' Shina have been caused by t:? serious factors: (1) The Com-
murist rebellion, an! (2) deterioration of the economic situation. These
tvo serious factors,  hile different in nature, are interrelated. If we could
obtain as large an amount of aid proportionately as that vhich is being given
to Japan, and if our Governnent can o on the rond to "regeneration by our
om efforts", e shall doubtless be able to lay a foundation for recovery.
Cnly then shal! v be nble to lay t's foundation for the peace of the Far East
and of tie orld.
Therefore, e do not ornose the United Statent helping Japan to recover,
thhough e lo feel that under no circumstaners should the U.S. follow the same
Id ron" courso hy helping Japan to dominate the Far Enst. That is  hy to
he), China r cover in for more inportant then to holp Japan recover. (Extract)
** *
#2
Japen Is Rising
1 Shih Pao (Chinese Catholic Organ). Shanghai
Ar11. 8.194
This journal has not in the past commented much on the varigus problem

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
connected vith Javan. Horever, regarding the Allied control of Japn, 
have expressed the view that vhile such control shouid be liberal to a oer
tain extent, yet if it is too liberal, so that Japan ill be able to pre-
serve a certain nmount of her war potentinl hich vill encourage her to re-
build rer milit rinm, then the vhole control policy must be considered as
a failure. Therefore, at tiis time hen the United States has adopted a
policy of helping Japan to recover, we feel there are certain prerequisites
to such a policy, namely, that Janan's militarism must be uprooted and that
China must bé made strong enough to resist successfully any aggression by
making it possible for her to onjoy forever an advantage over Japen in pro
ductive powor and in strategic geography.
Horever, vhat is very surprising is that today, tho United States is
so libera) in her control of Japan and so positive in her affort to build
up Japan that she has exceeded the limits of liberelity and forgotten the
prerequisites mentioned above. The Americans are too nnive and too headstron
They feel that thore is no danger that militarism in Japan Ill revive, and
that even if Japan is enabled to en ioy an advartage over China in productive
power and in strategic geography, there ill still be no danger. It is re-
ported that the Jananese Government may soon regain its administrative free-
dom, that the system whereiy SCAP controls Japan by issuing direotives to
the Japanese Goverument nay gradunlly be abolished, that the SCAP Department
of Government has already instrcted the Jananose Cetral Purge Committee to
ma'te preparations for winin: un its vork, and that the censorship of Japane
ne spapers vill be discontinued at tho end of this month. This means that
evon before the conclusion of a pence trerty, Japan mill be able to rogain
gradually her status as  comnletely soversign state. This is really such
good treatment as defented Jnnam has never drannt of; it is also a great
threat to victorious Crina,
Te are grate ul to the United Strtes for having ct long last passed the
US463 million Chin. cid bill et this time vhen our country is exreriencing
extremely grent difficulties. President Truman has now officinlly appointed
Paul G. Hoffmon , President of the Studobnker Automo ile Company, as ad-
ministrator of the ERP and concurrently ns administrator of the oconomic part
of tho China aid progren. However, it is tlis same lioffman vho, having com-
plated a survey o Japan in cooperation with ".S. Under Secretary of the Army
Draper, has expressed tho vien that it vill not be dangerous for the United
States to rebuild Japan's industry and that Japan should be permitted to
organize a 4 millicn-ton norchant marine, thus concurring vith the general
conclusions contained in the Strike Report.
It is also renorted that vhen the next fiscal year begins, the United
States will extend to Janan a loan of as much as Us$765 million, whioh vill
be far larger than the anount of nid vhich she has decided to give to China,
a nation vhich has resisted Red aggression for a long period of time and
which continues to resist it under most difficult conditions. Thus, China'
productive pover vill never te able to increase to a point equalling Japan's.
This readiness of the Uaited States to build up Japan is undoubtedly an un-
fortumcte contradiction in international rolations today.
of pourse, we need to exanine ourselves in a number of respects. Defeated
Janan is non rising again. Isn't this msufficient to avaken us? The dele-
gates and Government officinls nov attending the National Assembly at Nanking
should make practical and effective pronosals for the reforn of our internal
politics end our foreign affairs, so that we may not lag behind a defeated
nation. (Extracts)
*

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.94)
 must sirriltaneously try our best to improve our polition
economio conditions, so thet the foreign aid will prove as effeotive as
should be. Furthermore, the amount of U.S. aid this time is not very bi
and this aid program is not very positive in character. Thie makes our
self-effort all the more imvertont
It can be said that in the past we have not really nade any effort at
self-help, Our past efforts have certainly teen too inadequate. Ne have
had the so-called Lmer gency leasures, Reform lessures, and various other
kinds of control neesures. These were all quite high-saunding, but where
are the reaults they have achieved?
The U.S, aid nas come late, and our self-help s still being delayed.
Aren't we thus doing too great a nern to ourselves? If a program of self-
help is worked out and if it is not acturlly carpied out, so that the pre-
sent U.S. aid will be vasted and so that future/foreign aid will be blocked,
then evemthing vill be finished. (Extracts)
* * *
The Presidentirl Llection and Hodesty
Shan Pao (R T-superyised C.G. Organ). Shenshai
APr11 8124
We want to point out thst Pre-ident Chiang's unillingnesa to become
the KiIT cardidate for thr Presideney does not mean thnt he is reluctant to
become cnnatdate for the Presideney. Acco ding to the regulation governing
the electicn of the Prscilent, tha Presidential candidate, besides being
nominated by a political party, oan aiso be nominated jointly by a fixed
number or NPA delegater. When neus o' Pres dent Chiarg's refusal to become
Nit candidete for the Presidenoy was made kmorm, neople of all walks of life
tiroughout the country vare start led. Even the NPA delegates representing
the Loung China and Denocratic Socialist Parties and the non-partisans were
also of the opinion that Prasident Chieng sl.ould be made the first President
of the Chinoss Reputlic. Monnvhile. the N?A delegates' nominate-Chiang-
for-President novene.rt sponsored  Dr. Hu Shih, is also undervay, and it
is absclutely beyond questior that the required number of delegates to endorse
the nomination vili be mot.
de adnire Pre id mt Chianals spirit et modesty and ve favor the reso-
lution passed y the Kuonintan: spectel vlenary session, However, at is our
opinion that Presi den Chiang mey roinain from running for the Presidential
clection, but he shoul! not be so hodest, He should accept the unanimous
cpinion o' the IPA loicgutes ar veil as the vishes of the people throughout
the county (Extracus)
Arain on thy iscion of the Current Nationa? Assembly
Chuna Yanr Jil. Pao (KrT Oruan). Shanchai
A2111 827242
This National Assembly is the first Constitution-enforcing N.A., and
its m in nission is thn. of completing the orgonization of a popularly-
electod g vernment. At the same time, this N. A. will perform its functions
in accorinnce vith the provisions of the Constitution, being different from
the Constitution-enactin; N.. Eve- if the Constitution must be revised,
cnly one or twe articlee of it should be revised as slightly as ppssible to

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 368
UNCLASSIFIED
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
Shanghai, China, April 13, 1948.
DIVISION OF OCCÚPIED AREAS
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
APR 2 6 1948
Subject: Local Reaction to Str
ANTMENT OF STATE
4948 AH 21 PM 4 55
DEPARTMER
29
ANH
EPA  TAT
THE HONORABLE
EED
18
894.60/4-1348
3
20
THESECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON, D. C.
894.60
3.1748
YR740.00119PW
In further compliance with the Department's circular
airgram instruction of March 17, 8:35 a.m., which re-
quested all information referring to the Strike Report,
R
I have the honor to enclose a summary translation of an
.00119PW
editorial which appeared in the CHUNG YANG JIH PAO (KT-
organ) on April 11, 1948, under the heading, "We Insist
Upon Receiving the Amount of Japanese Reparations to
ACTION
Which We Are Entitled".
OE
COPIES
Tho editorial points out that over two years have
TO;
elapsed since Japan surrendered and yet no decision even
FE
in principle has been made on "the most pressing problem
of reparations". The editorial then blames this pro-
0
crastination on the U.S. policy of being lenient towards
Japan. It disagrees with the statement issued by Under
OCD
Secretary Draper wherein he indicated his agreement with
Strike's recommendations. It says, "To assert, as Draper
has done, that it is unwise to ask Japan for a reasonable
amount of reparations in accordance with this (Potsdam)
AuR
declaration would not only be a violation of the sacred
declaration, but also tantamount to destroying the charter
C/
for controlling Japan which one has drawn up oneself."
CS/V
Although it does not specifically refer to the Strike
Report, an editorial of April 1l in the TUNG NAN JIH PAO
2/
(KMT-Southeast China organ) of April 1l is also enclosed
inasmuch as it also condemns our policy towards Japan.
This criticism is also aimed at Chinese Foreign Minister
Wang Shih-chieh for his statement at the time of his re-
turn from the autumn United Nations General Assembly. The
894
wss
conditions
APR-27 1948
un
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
conditions in Japan as he saw them were quite dirferent
from those described by the Chinese press. The editorial
urges the Chinese diplomatic authorities to "wake up md
demonstrate their diplomatic technique so as to remove
the danger which is already present in Sino-Japanese re-
lations".
It closes with the statement that "our diplomatie
authorities need to express solemnly their views on the
various unilateral and dangerous measures which the United
States has recently taken in regard to control of Japan".
Respectfully yours
laht
John M. Cabot
American Consul General
Enclosures:
1/ Summary Translation of Editorial, "We Insist Upon
Receiving the Amount of Japanese Reparations to
Which We are Entitled", which appeared in CHUNG
YANG JIH PAO, Apr11 11, 1948.
2/
Summary Translation of Editorial, "U.S. Policy
Toward Japan Undergoes Abrupt Change", which
appeared in TUNG NAN JIH PA0, April 1Í, 1948.
File No. 800
DEdgar:of
Original and Hectograph to Department.
Copy to Embassy, Nanking.

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.94)
- 3 - Emolesure Wo. 1
dat ed April 15, 19
Consulate General,
We Insist Upon Receiving the Amount of Japanese
Reparations to Which We Are Entitled
Chung Yang Jih Pao (or Orzan). Shanghai
Arril 11 2918
Two yea's and eight months heve elapsed now since Japan surrendered, but
no date has yet been set for the covocation of the Jananese peace conference,
and even on the most pressing mroblem of reparations, no decision in prin-
ci le has yet been made. In the eyes of the Far Eastern nations which
suffercd much from Jananese aggrescion, esnecially China which made the great-
est secrifices and suffered the heaviest losses, this is something most re-
grettable and most unjust.
It is obvious that the reason for the procrastination in connection with
the reparntion isrne is the U.S. policy o' being loniert toward Japan.
The task of the roccnt mission to Janan led by U.S. Army Under Seoretary
Hillim H. Draper vas t confor vith Goneral HacArthur on the question of
Janan's recov ry, and one of the main topics for discussion was the repara-
ticn issue. Upon his return to the United Stntes, Draner issued a statement
indicatirg his agreement ith Strake's recommondations and voicing opposition
to the removal from Japan of any more inductrial equipment which is obviously
not cquipmont for var inductrics. Tlis is because he firmly believes that
Joan is noy really inelined toward denocracy and that she vill never have
the anbition to mege another var. That is w'ry he fools that it will not be
risley for the Unitea Suates to holn Japen to rebuild her industries, hence
his statoment, "It vould be very unvise to ask Japan for more reparations."
Fovever, in our onirion, to ask Japan for reparetion materiels which
vill contrihute o Janan's war potontinl is not only not "unwise", but a
course vhich shoul re oken in necordance vth the Potsdam Declaration on
Japan. Since the United ctes. as vell as Crina and Britain, vas one of the
mainstnys of +he Po sda Declaration, it is all the more necessery for it to
a ide  this ceelarat on. To ascert, as Draper has done, thet it is "unvise"
to ack Japan for a rerponable amount of renarations in accordance vith this
decl: ration voull not oriy be a violation of this sacred decleration, but
also tantamount to destroying the carter for controlling Japan which one has
draun un oneself. (Cumnery)
**
Disturbarees in Bogotn
Sin Ven Pa (Gar-anpervicen. C.0. Orgau. Shansmi
Arril 12, 1948
ile ostensibly this revolution in Bogotn has been started-by the
Liberal Party, yet, in reality, it is 'ed by the Communists Fron this we
cun see rov ddely internetioral Commudsn has spread for even the rich
and penceful Continent of South Americn connot escape its clutches. If the
democratic forces connot mite in time in trying to stem the tide of inter-
netionnl Communism, then no part of the orlt dll be able to en joy stability,
so that all the lav-abidiny peonle in the orld vill suffer from another yar.
(Summary)
* * *
Now Isthe Time to Safeguard Human Rights
Cheng Yien Pao (Locnl KMT Organ. Conneoted with Wu Shao-shu), Shanghai
Arr1l 10, 19
A few days ago, the locnl author'ties arrested & large number of "Labor
Movement Communists" tho remained secretly in factories, thus arousing uneasinoss
among the local ponulace.

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.94)
But according to news leaking out from quarters concerned, among those
arrested :ere nct a few vhose offenses rere either mithout sufficient evidence
or vithout evidence at all, Tnis, therefore, involves the "question of.
humen rights." What a serious thing the "arrest of Communists" is. It 
Jrv
certainly unjusti iale to make arrests without evidence. How, then, n one
e impliccted dtncut sufficient evidence?
Are they trying to utilize this case to "eliminate" all the workers who
are ordinariiy not li ed by the factories, the labor unions and te Government
agencies conccrned? f so, it is a cese of settling private ven eance by.
pretending to performpuolic function.
It in learred that this group o" neople ill soon be hended over to the
Specin Tribunal. We hope they can be transferred to the ourt and tried
soon, an? that consc ent or 'v. If no eviuence can be fond to substantiate
the charres preferr i agi. then, they shoul? be immed ately released, while
those who mare t false ee sations against them shoul themselves be pro-
secuted on this count.
Bandit-suppression is State policy. The protection of human rights
is a State lav. loreover, ot long ago, the PP et up a Human Rights Pro-
tection Assoc ation. We cer air.ly cannot demand the safeguerding of human
rights on the one and, and l -ve human rights entirely ithout protection
on the other' (Full Translntfon)
* * *
Other editorials not translnted:
Dated Anril 12, 1948
Chung Hua Shih Pao, Sionmai
An Examnle of Democratic Government
Lin Pac, Chanrtai
On the National Assembly and State
Afnirs
Ho Pinr Jih Peo, Shanghai
Plot. to Stir Un Student Unrest Dis-
closed--St  dents of Various Schools
Should Be or the Alert
Chien Sien Jih Pao, Shanghai
The President Whom We Need
Yi Shit. Pao, Shanghci
Jet Us See Ho: the Current National
Ansembly Session Will Discuss
ilitary Affairs
Tung Han Jin Pao, Shanghai
On the Current National Assembly
Session
Sin  er Pro, Shagiai
Improve Normal Education
Ching Yang Jin Pno, Shanghai
Eradicate Cpium-smoking Thoroughly
POLITICAL NE'S
Inte: leetue 1s Tarouchout Country Coneerned Over
Current Situation
Ta Clun Yeh Pao (onneeted vith Gen. isuan Tieh-r), Sharghci
A1 11,19
Nenkinr, April 11---It is lenrned that nuthorities concarned here re-
ceivel one after nother renort: from various places stating thet the intel-
lectuals in penernl were inlignant. at and dissatisfied vith the incompetency
nnd veakness of the Government. The professors in Peiping were the first to
issue n menifesto on the current situation, following which the professors
in the Capital expressed their vievs on State affairs and even organized a
National Affairs Promotion Association. Recently, the educational and cultural
cireles in Canton also rallied to the movement.

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.87)
-2-
Enclosure No.te
Consulate Genebal, Sh
inistrins and Commissions concerned. It is possible that these supplies
rill be soli, that the prococds will be kept, and that any use of these
procceds vdll bo sul iect to agreement betmeen China and the Unitod States.
"ov ver, pert of ÷he id  ill be used for rural reconstruction, which will
 hon'lad b a five-nrmber cornittee to be organized jointly by China and
the 'rit I States.
We feel that the nbove-nent ioned infornation is of grent importance, so
re morld like to make n krief s udy of it.
Firt, it ins icen lecided not to set up a separste ageney for handling
me . sid ut t) have it pdhainistered by the Evec itive Yuan President and
e icnt liriatries and Conniscions under hin, thus saving personnel and
l or. T is is something we should support.
Seconily, it. is 'cing planned to sel) the v.S. aid suorlies, which means
that the sun lies ill he uaed to absor i llo capital and to reduce the
amount of banknotes in circul  ion. This can be gaid to be a efficacious
remedy for the present conon ie cancer of China. Hovever, past experience
shows t)nt in seiling the sup lies, attention mus' b: given to certain re-
ctirc conts, cuch as that the sale of these suo lies must not aim at making
profits, an! thet the distributien mrist be ecuitn le.
Thirdly, it has alreni been lee led to use pnrt of the proceede of the
s: e of the sup lies for rurel reconstruction purposes. However, industrial
reconstruction is ne less ianortent then rurnl reconstruction, so we hope
that rrenter iroorta ce vil'  attacl.ed to inlestrial reconstruetion.
(Summary)
*
L. Po! y Toard Jaoan Jarerroes Abrunt Change
ontter e To enese surre ter, the nese press pointet out the
damge o y tor  o,  rn e past to yeors, almost
 eret of nr orts orin com ene ofhe Chinese nenspapers
co  in L pe  n iceteI te e i nnt orr of the Chinese press.
Foever, ht is r tthe ie tt wr iolomatie authorities have con-
sisterty roer et el poenorts as jaeoreet. Ior inetonee, upon his return
to ne From  on the  er Ane my Lect mutuan, Foreigm
dicter Wony sh-chi op nly deeterod in a preee conference thet con-
itione n Jom us n saw them ore pie f rert from these deseribed
io  iuece oree. This stateneet uroped th in imation of the press
throt t ountry. The tnieneo  gerel cituetion being ns it
io, it s  ns to ue tht our li lom tie mnthorit ies ou ht to wake up and de-
nonet pat t ir diplorr tie t ennior t t ie time uher U.s. poliey toward
dor om unt pon  orupt chm, se ns te reoy the danger vhich is
adray pre t in Sine-domese r lrtione.
Ye lrve never a reeate i tat apen'a ee re For recevery be curbed too
mm, but that the oniy prine iple povering eueh desire for recovery be that
the renctienary, feu lalistie, conservetive and lackward political forces in
Jooan be thorourhiy renoved, so that Japan nay hend toward n normal cultural
ant ceononie course in a denocratic, free anl peaceful atmosphere.
Fron the wg in hich conlitions in Lio'n have developed during the more
the. tvo yers cince V-J Pny, we con see clearly tht Japan's recovery has
al ays been founded on the feudalictic and reactionery forces in that country.
It is tor this reason that wo must onnose Anericn's policy of building up
Jap'n. In order to uohold just ice among the Allied netions, our diplomatic
u'horitien e! to solenly express th ir views on the various unilateral
n! domgerous mamures which the Unit d States has recently taken in regard to
ce:trol o: Jupan. (uarary)

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.91)
CHINESE PRESS REVIEW
**冰
American Consulate General, Shanghai, China
Nc. 616
Apriy12,_1948
EDITORIAL COMPEIT
"eirhty lerning f ".3. Foreign Asristance Act
Ta Kung Pao (Inlependent, Politica) Science Group). Shenghai
Apr11 12. 1948
The Tarshall Plan which vas under de' ate for almost an months has even-
t. al y been smoothly passed by the Senrte and the House  Representatives of
he U.S.A. Tis ill is so irrge in scope ant vil' have such a far-reaching
offoct or the vorld si untion fron now on that only the Lend-Lease Act can
compere with t. Ve eve the follov ing tuo impressions of this iaportant
bill:
The first pdint that is notevort y is the relief nature of this large-
scale Foreim ssistance Act. While the U.3. ad i istrative authorities pre-
sented t is act be' pre the Congress and the Ameridn people as an "anti-
Comunist  eanon", so that i cortains a strong mell of gunpovder, yet the
Governnvento, n! rartYcularly the peoples, of te eighteen recipient coun-
tries do not ant t, adcent this ad as vanguads in a possible U.S.-Soviet
War. Since Marshnll made public the Camous Hrshall Plan at Harvard Uni-
v rrity o1 June 5, 1047, Westorn Eurone hes Peen fearing that U.S. atd vill
come toe late to cnahle the to tide over the critical period. While this
uoas billion .s. at : is not very large in amount and so will not be able to
enable the cig teen nations to solve theiy economic problem, yet it vill at
loast b h Inul, Hor ov r, his is or y a beginning, as these nations will
probobly obt can nore aid later pr.
The secon: neint lt is note orthy as tno war nature of the Foreign
Assist rce hot. It is pite cloor thht tis Uso billion Foreign Assistance
Act renresontr a vemy luxuious action takon by the United States in con-.
n ction  it the W.S.-Sovict cold uhr). The passage of the Act means that
the Unitcd Stotes no consi lers itéolf an anti-Communist arsenal. Duo to the
norucus pro luctive over of +he nited Stat s, plus the national defense
resources of +Le Westorn Euronend n tions and their colonies, tris anti-
Gommnint ersena' is n very ig one. It i possible that the world economic
situ tion may become tie seme as i as ef re 1939, i.e., there vill be a
peried of ceononie prosperity due to a race of var preperedness. Hovever,
the ultimate recult ill be too readoul for us to imat ine.
We are afrai that the Governnents and peooles of he eighteen recipient
netions view the naaree df the U.S. Foreign Assidtance Act both with grati-
Fication ani aoprehension. Those nations  xd governnents which have been
yearnin: for J.S. ni: ngturally vill not re ject this\US6 billion aid, but
tow al cut the misrior Aich thoy will ultimately be cAlled upon to fulfill
in cormection  ith t is nid? On tne dey efter President Truman signed the
Forer. sistrer Aot, Forein intster Marr Shih-chieh declared that the
iyse Governnent goul neeort te si  vith e very heavy heart. Weighty
i. cd is the meonin of the U.. aid! Ve imngine this impreasion is shared
by the ether reciphent notions! (S.mnery)
***
Uso of J.S. Aid
Shany Puo (C.0. Commercinl Organ), Shanthni
Abril 12, 1648
An authoritntive source connected it! finances has disclosed that he
Government is not going to set un a soonrnte ngeroy for using and distributing
tie .S. aid, but that tho nid is going to be handled by the Executivo Yuan
Presigent. The lifferent tyoes of supnlins till bo handed over to the

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.98)
A-S/ Mr. Saltzman
TO
DATE: Fobruary 2, 1948
A-S/ Mr. Claxton
FROM
A-S/ Mr. Wisner
SUBJECT:
Forthcoming Strike Report.
General Draper telephoned today and in the absence of
Mr. Saltzman reported the following to me. Although I am not
fully familiar with the significance of this matter, I believe
894.50/2-248
that it is a storm signal which will be deserving of some
serious consideration within the Department:
Mr. Strike and one of his associates called upon
General Draper today and discussed with him (and probably with
Secretary Royall) the general outlines of their forthcoming
report. They expect that this report will be completed toward
the end of next week and will shortly thereafter be submitted
to the Department of the Army.
The report will contain a statement that the existing
6
level of industry for Japan is far too low and will recommend
that the level of industry be considerably raised by revised
directives.
General Draper stated confidentially that Mr. Royall is
presently of the opinion that he should make the Strike report
public so that the Congress and the American people may be
informed. One of his reasons for this conclusion is the fact
that the Congress is so stirred up about the reparations ques-
tion in general that they would be further and unnecessarily
annoyed with the Department of the Army if they receive the
information contained in the forthcoming Strike report via leaks
which are certain to occur if the report is not officially re-
leased.
I made very little comment but simply stated that I would
bring this information to your attention and that you might
want to talk to General Draper about the subject.
894.60/2
DcR
CST
31
A-S:FGWisner:br

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.98)
CeA.
TO
A-S/Mr. Saltzman
DATE: February 4, 1948
FROM :
SUBJECT:
Recommendations on Letter from Lovett to Draper re Strike Report
and on Preparation for Probable Conferences on Industrial Rotention
Levels in Japan.
You have asked my views on what should be done with the
attached papers. They include the following:
A. A draft reply to General Draper's second letter requesting
that no final FEC action be taken on Japanese reparations level of
Japan prior to receipt and study of the report of the Overseas
Consultants. The draft reply states that the views of the Depart-
ment are set forth in Mr. Lovett's letter of January l3th on the
same subject. The draft reply contains the reassurance that no
894.60
final action will be necessary in the FEC in the near future and
that General McCoy is being asked to keep State informed of
developments on this paper so that the situation can be reviewed
if necessary before action is taken on the Overseas Consultants
report. This letter has now been concurred in by Mr. Martin and
Mr. Butterworth. Mr. Hemmendinger participated in drafting it
0
and I also concur in it.
B. A memorandum from Mr. Thorp to Mr. Lovett explaining the
2
major principles of Japanese industrial retentions and reparations.
This memorandum recognizes that Overseas Consultants could con-
ceivably develop new information and states that it should be
considered before final action is taken. However, it concludes
that in view of the positions the U. S. has taken in the FEC and
the actions which FEC itself has taken, it would be contrary to
the interests of the U. S. to make changes in the present U. S.
8
position adverse to reparations recipients without overwhelming
factual evidence that these changes are necessary in order to
bring about Japanese self-support at the 1930-34 level.
C. A bar chart and a table showing the levels set by the
several papers dealing with industrial retentions and reparations.
I recommend the following action:
 That you send a memorandum to the Under Secretary
covering the following points:
(a) That he has received a letter from General Draper
and what it is about;
(b) That a reply has been prepared, what its effect is
and that you recommend its dispatch.
(c) That since the Strike Report should be ready within
one or two weeks and since you have been forewarned by
General Draper that it will contain recommendations that

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
the level of retentions be increased, we may look
forward to the need for taking such recommendations
into consideration and quite probably to an extended
discussion with the Army Department. In order to
give Mr. Lovett a full background on this subject you
are attaching two memoranda - (1) a brief history
of the various studies, SWNCC papers and FEC policy
statements on reparations; (2) a statement by
Mr. Thorp explaining the fundamental principles on
which the industrial retentions and reparations
decisions have been based; (3) ste ban chast and tober.
(d) That you suggest a conference with Mr. Lovett
to include Mr. Thorp, Mr. Butterworth, Mr. Martin
and yourself.
I have asked Mr. lMartin to prepare such a memorandum to
Mr. Lovett and to prepare the brief statement of the history of
the industrial retentions and reparations papers; also to prepare
a very brief written explanation of the bar chart and table. e 
attoiled.
Althogh it will delay for another day presenting r. Lovett
the proposed answer to General Draper's letter, I believe it would
be better to wait until this memorandum and the brief history have
been prepared.
Although I am personally of the opinion that the Strike
Report should not be published, for reasons which will be set out
in another memorandum, and that it is appropriate for you to so
inform General Draper, you may wish to consider deferring a flat
statement to him on this subject until the proposed conference
with kir. Lovett on the reparations problem in general and discuss
publication at that meeting.
A-S:PPClaxton:br
Atts.

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.95)
A-S
A-S Mr. Saltzman
DATE: Februa 3, 19448
TO
之
OEE. M. Martin
MR. SALTZMAN
FROM:
Review of Japanese Reparations Program with Mr.
SUBJECT:
In order to make sure that we had a firm A-T
position I drafted the attached memorandum and asked
Thorp to initial it. This he has done.
As you know, the letter has been somewhat re-
drafted as a result of suggestions made by Mr. Butterworth.
3
I have sent him a copy of the redraft but have not
cleared it with him. It seemed to me that the next
immediate step was to review our general policy with
Mr. Lovett.
In view of the importance of the Japanese repara-
tions program and the imminence of the Overseas Consultants
Report, it is my suggestion that both Mr. Thorp and
Mr. Butterworth should participate in any discussion
with Mr. Lovett.
I leave it to you how to use the attached momo-
3
randum. If you think Mr. Lovett would find time to
read it, it might be well to send it to him in advance
of the meeting.
Attachment.

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.98)
TO
:A-S, Charles E. Saltsman
DATE: February 4, 1948
PROM :CE, Roswoll H. hitman
suBject:Forthooming Strike Roport
Mr. Wisner's memorandum of February 2, 1948 on the forthooming Strike
report indicates that Mr. Royall presently intends to make the Strike report
public. It is our opinion that the Department of State should oppose such
publication with the utmost vigor for the following reasons:
1. If the Strike report were made public, it would be impossible not
to make public at the same time the policy of the U.S. Government with whbh
it disagrees. For the defense of the U.S. policy, it would be necessary 
to make public those reports and findings on which it was based, including
R
the Pauley Report, and the findings of the New York agreement in which Mr
Strike agreed without reservation with the present U. S. policy. In additior
to the divulging of classified information involved, such action would present
U.S. policy to the public in the most unfavorable light possible - namely
when under attack and with all the criticism and none of the legitimate
defense of that policy. Further, it would serve more to confuse than to
educate Congress and the public on the subject, and would needlessly and
endlessly prolong Congressional discussion of the appropriation for Japan.
2. By permitting publication of the report, the War Department would
elevate Mr. Strike's recomcendations out of their present advisory position.
Nr. Strike was employed as an advisor to the War Department, his advisory
recommendations must be approved not only by the War Department, but also by
State, Navy, Air Force and SCAP. To publish his report would, in effect,
E
place him on an equal position with these Departments in pressing his
recommendations with Congress and the public.
3. Negotiations on Japanese level of industry are now entering a
critical stage at the FEC. Publication as a semi-official U.S. Government
report of the Strike recommendations which differ so widely both from the
the view of other FEC members and from the official U. S. policy, would
arouse strong suspicion that the U. S. is not acting in good faith in the
proposals or does not inted to aid in good faith in carrying out its admin-
istration responsibilities under present international agreements. It is
not at all certain that the Strike recommendations will be accepted in whole
or in part. The premature publication of a report which does not have
C
8
official U. S. approval and which is probably much more extreme than the
S
final U. S. position would make far more difficult FEC adoption of a policy
4.60/2-448
permitting SCAP necessary discretion in the administration of suoh polioy
or FEC approval of such individual recommendation of the Strike Committee
4. Publication

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.97)
-2 -
4. Publication of the Strike report could affect seriously Scap's
administration of reparations program in Japan. Under no ciroumstances
should the report be released unless SCaP has a) approved the findings of
the report and b) approved its pubrication.
5. Information has also reached the Department of State indicating
that the Strike group has concerned itself with many mtters; including
the deconcentration program of SCAp, the purge of persons in Japan for war-
time activities, the economic recovery program for Japan, and the foreign
trade program, which are not covered in the specific instructions for the
CI agreed upon by Assistant Secretaries Hilldring and Peterson in the
exchange of correspondence of July 1947, and concerning which the members
of the Strike group have no special competence. It would be particularly
unfortunate should publicity be given to any unsolicited and unofficial
views which may be expressed in the Strike report on such matters of
important U. S. policy. It is unnecessary to elaborate on the importance
of these policies to the official U. S. program for post-war Japan; the
delicacy of international negotiations on these matters at this time; or
the fact that the responsibilities of the Department of State are affected
by the international implications of the acts and opinions which my be
imputed to this Government, and the executive officers of the government
have a responsibility under law which is not borne by a private citisen.
P
OE:RBSmtth/cmb

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.95)
COPY
S
TO
: A-S Mr. Saltzman
DATE:
February 9, 1948
DIVISICN OF OCCUPIED
file
FROM : A-S Mr. Hemmendinger
ELO OMIC AFFAIRS
MAR 1 - 1948
Central
RM/R
sUBjECT: Publicity on Strike Report.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
I have disoussed with Mr. Claxton the problem of possible release to the
press of the report by Overseas Consultants, Inc. which is expected soon. I
agree that the Army Department would be unlikely to release this report withog
State Department concurrence, but I think there is a danger that it or a summely
of it might be released to the press independently by Mr. Strike. You will rall
that his article in the American Magazine contained information which had hitrto
been classified.
I suggest, and Mr. Claxton is inclined to agree, that it might be well to
bring the matter tactfully to the attention of Mr. Draper at this time, saying
that we know that the Army would not act without our concurrence, but that at
would be well to be sure that Oversees Consultants, Inc. understands that any
release must be made by the Government. It would also be desirable, of cours,
to indicate some of the objections which might be felt here to release of the
report by the Government, since the basic studies to which it refers have never
been made public.
I told Gen. Draper yesterday that we have objections to publication of
Strike report and that we assume it will not be published by Army Department,
or by Strike with Army's approval without consulting us. He agreed.
S.
12 Feb.
Mr. Hemmendinger:
Consider in this connection the Knowland recuest - and please work up a
894.60
fully coordinated State Dept position re release of the Strike report and also
on strategy in event of uncontrolled release of the info.
FSW
DC/R
239
9
Bev_
948
Cst
4850

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.94)
1997
COSMOS CLUB
WASHINGTON 5. D. C.
A pril 17, 1948
894.60/4-1748
Division of Jan nese Economin Affairs
State Department
Washington 25, D.C.
4
Gentlemens
I understand that the report on Japan
prepared by the Overseas Consultants Corporation
is available for distribution, and would
appreciate if you would kindly have a copy
send to me, as I am studying industrial
changes resulting from the last war.
Sincerely yours,
W.g. Friconich
Pro.W.G.Friedrich
601 19th Street, N.W.
Washington 6, ..
MAY 2 1 1948
FILED
894.
DIVISION OF OCCUPIED ARCAS
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
DCR · TP U
APR 1 9 1948
9
从
C
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
0
S
2n
4-1748
CE
Cat.
st.

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.92)
APR 221948
My dear Professer Friedrichs
894.60/4-
Your letter of April 17th requesting a copy of
the Report prepared by Overseas Censultant's Inesrpe-
rated has been reseived.
In view of the faet that the report on "Industrial
Reparations Survey of Japan to the Uaited States" was
made to the Department ef the Army, your request sheald
be made direotly to that Department.
Sinserely yours,
Pain
Reswell H. Whitman
Acting Asseciate Chief
Division ef Cscupied Areas Esonomie Affmirs
CS/ V
Professer W. G. Friedrich
601 19th Street, N.W.
Washington 6, D.C.
DCR,. ITP U
Amal.
894
Rov.
22
E
L1.
Cat.
APR
Dist.
SGK
E:SGKallis:cmb
4/21/48

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.96)
CEOOECT
SECKET
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
WASHINGTON, D. C.
2 8 APR 1948
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
The Honorable
ADVISER
The Secretary of State
DEPARTMENT OF STA
My dear Mr. Secretary:
XR
You will recall that, following expressiods of concern
lest the Deconcentration Law recently passed by the Japanese
Diet seriously interfere with Japanese economic recoyery,
894.60/4-2848
894.50
General MacArthur proposed the establishment of a Deconcentra-
tion Review Board. During his recent visit to Japan Under
Secretary Draper discussed this matter with General MacArthur
with a yiew to obtaining assurance that the Board would have
the broadest possible authority in reviewing the procedures
and standards whereby the law is to be administered, as well
as in making final recommendations direct to General Macârthur
on the specific application of the Law to individual concerns.
The Board has now been appointed, and attached is a
message fron General MacArthur containing his public statement
regarding the Board and its powers. I am highly gratified by
the tone and content of the announcement. I believe that this
statement is exactly what we have been hoping for, not only in
the scope of authority which it gives to the Board, but as a
public indication of General MacArthur's personal intention
not to allow the Deconcentration Law to interfere with the
economic recovery of Japan.
INTÉRNATIONAL RESOURCES DIVISION
Jale R
Sincerely,
MAY 1 2 1948
1948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
M
JUN 25 1948
Kenneth C. Royall
FILED
JUN3
Secretary of the Army
PE
CM-IN-6187 cpy #36
DIVISION OF OCEUPIED AREAS
27 Apr 48
ECONONIC AFFAIRS
MAY 3 1948
SECRET
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DECLASSIFIED
E.O. 11652, Sec. 3(E) and 5(D) or (E)
NND.76.00.44
1975
791
ByCD/MT.NARS, DateSEP...B..

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF MESSAGE CENTER
INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET TOT
PRIORITY
PARA PHRASE NOT REQUIRED. HANDLE AS SECRET CORRESPOIDENCE
PLR PARAS 51i and 60a (4) AR 380-5.
From:
SCAP Tokyo Japan
To:
Dept of the Army for Beo etary of the Army Royall
Wash DC
27 Apri1 1948
Nr:
0 60254
This is in reply to your w 80378.
Public ennouncement of the compositior of the
Deconcentration Review Boaru ls being made locally for release
27 April, l4001 time. Text of releage follows:
"General Machrthur today announced the composition
of the Deconcentration Reviev Board due to arrive in Tokyo
about May 3rd to assist him in connection with the
implementation of Japanese Public Lan number z07 under
title, Law for IMiminatio. of Concentrations or Excessive
Economic Power' passeo by the Japanese Diet on 9 December
1947. The Fcerd was seleeted by the Department of the Army
in Washington in response to a request by the Supreme
Commander.
"The soero is somposso of 5 members Chairmen of the
Board is Mr Soy . Campberl of Camoen, New Jersey. arrently
the President and Gsnera Mne ger of the Ne Tork Sntbuilding
Corporation
Hr. Campboll s a greouace in mesime and Raval
Architecture, Univers iby or Michigan anc is mationalty known
as e shipbuilding executive. He was recently in Tckrvo es a
member of the Cverseas Consultents, Inc.
"The industriel engineering member  lir. Jos eph V.
Robirson, currently owner or the Robins on Cr mector Company,
CM IN 6187 (28 APr 48)
DIVIBION OF OCCUPIED AREAS
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
MAY 8 1948
36
GPO
16—58108-1

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF MESSAGE CENTER
INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET TOT
PRIORITY
Page 2
From:
SCAF Tokyo Japan
Fr:
C 60254
27 April 1948
Joseph Robinson, Incorporated, New Tork City. Mr. Ropinson,
has extensive experience in eugineering, p oduction and
mane gement and is the inven tor of the Robinson automatie
coupling device He has served with the Wer Froduction
Board as head engineer, indus trial Processes end Iroducts;
and is a member or the Advanced Committee on Preclsion
Cestings. War Metellic Committee of Nationel Hesearch Council.
"The corporate mamagemenc member is Mr. Eaward J
Burger who has wide experience as manager or Public Service
Companies dealiny vitr. inoua crial plante. Re is presently
Vice President of the Fuolie Service Company of Cleveland,
Ohio, and Vice President und Director of tha Central Banking
Comapny nP Lorain, Uhio. Re was in Japan from February to
June 1947 as a member of an expert group mase available to
ScaP for a survey cf the Japanese eiectrical power industry.
"The anti-trust member is Mr. Walter R Hutchinson,
graduete LLB of the Uraversity of Iowa. Mr. Hutchlnson,
in addition to his own private lew practice, served as
Assision United States Dia riou attorney for Northern District
of Iova and as a spe al asis cant to the ttorney Gezeral
of the United ftetee. saoimned to the anti lrust Livislon
with Headquartere in Wesniagton. Lurlng hi, serviees with
the Orfice of the attormey enerax, Mr. Hut hins on was in
charge of Buildinm Treces fvestigeuion sne Prosecution of
anti-Trust violaticas
"The Securities muehange Commiseion member is
Mr. Byron D Woodside prese ly Assis tant Direstor of Corporate
Finance of the Corporate Fluence Division of the organization.
He hae a Bs Degree in seou maice from the Un versity of
CM IN 6187 (28 AFr 48)
36
COPY NO.
THE MAKING OF AN EXACT COPY OF THIS MESSAGE IS FORBIDDEN
GPO
16-53108-1

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF MESSAGE CENTER
INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET TOT
PRIORITY
Page 3
From:
SCAP Tokyo Japan
Mr :
C 60254
27 April 1948
Pennsyivania, AM Degree fron George Washington University
and LLB from Temple University. He was ex mining accountant
with the Federal Trade Commission from 1929 to 1934 and
from 1934 to date has held responsible positions deeling
with accounting, examination of work-registration statements
with SFC. He has had a wive range of experience in
accounting, examining work registration statements and matters
dealing with complience wirnin ths United Stales of Securities
Acta 33 and 34.
"To date the Holding Company Liquidation Commission
of the Japanese Government has issued standards on the basis
of vhich 325 companies have been designated for further
exaninetion as excessive concentrations of economic power.
An initial list of removals from designations of those firms
found not to be excessive concentrations is nearing
completion and will be announced in the neer future. Delay
in making such announcemert has been occasioned in part by
the incompleteness of the iasic data submitted for examination
by many of the companies.
"Following this announcement data of the companies
remaining on the list wil be subjected tc detailed analysis
under provisions of the standards as a result of waich
further eliminations will e made either because the standards
do not in fact apply beceuse reorganizations of corporate
or physical operating structurey would nave a debilltating
effect on Industrlel leveis in Japan, or because tecinological
factors cause reorgarization to be imprecitcal.
"The instructions to the Board will accord broad
responsibility to make recoamendetions to the Supreme Wommander
CM IN 6187 (28 Apr 43)
BEORET
SEORET
36
COPY NO.
IPO
16—53108-1
THE MAKING OF AN EXACT COPY OF THIS MESSAGE IS FORBIDDEN

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF MESSAGE CENTER
INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
BECRET TOT
PRIORITY
Page 4
From:
SCAP Tokyo Japan
Nr:
C 60254
27 April 1948
at any time end on any phase of the deconcentration program.
The first action of the Board will be to review the basic
standards after wnicn it will be chiefly concerned with the
evaluation of piens of those companies scheduled for
reorganization.
"Genera, Macarthur s previousiy announced policy on
deconcentration requlres rapid action to divest actual
exceasive concentrations of their ability to prevent the
development of free competitive enterprise in Japan. It
provides for a minimum of reorganization consistent with
atteinment of occupetlon objectives and in cases where there
will be adverse efiecis upon production or upon the occupation
economic recovery program. companies concerned will be
permitted to operate under surveillance of the Fair Trade
Commission of the Japanese Government.
For your confidential information review action to
date has produced e list of 157 companies in the industrial
classification alone for removal from the original list of
designated institutiona Fnis is being buiit up continuously
as the limited staffs aveiluble are able to exanine the facts.
To this will be mddec exemptions of distributivo companies
as soon as the recorce car oe givon a peel mirary examination.
Becanss of the possible cevastating effset upon uhe morale
of cocpinies uus being ineluded es initial removals and the
consequent assumption shat reorganization of such unmentioned
companies definitely must foliow, it nas been considered
advisable to make the initial list es complete as possible.
CM IN 6187 (28 APr 48)
SECRET
36
COPY No.-
o
16—53108-1
THE MAKING OF AN EXACT COPY OF THIS MESSAGE IS FORBIDDEN

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF MESSAGE CENTER
INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET TOT-
PRIORITY
Page 5
From:
SCAP Tokyo Japan
27 Apri1 1948
Nr:
C 60254
The standards are being reexamined but it would be
inexpedient to make public announcement of any contemplated
modifications at this time when the Deconcentration Review
Board may suggest further changes that would constitute an
immediate second revision.
As indicated to Mr. Draper during his visit here
and repeated in formal commumication, it has always been
my firm intention to implement the deconcentration program
in such manner as will preclude any disruption of Japan's
going economy and will insure rigorous limitation of the
number of companies required to be subject to reorganization.
End
ACTION: OUS
INFORMATION: CAD, PO, OSA
hab
DTG 2710092
CM IN 6187 (28 Apr 48)
-SBORET
COPY NO.. 36
THE MAKING OF AN EXACT COPY OF THIS MESSAGE IS FORBIDDEN
16—58108-1

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: 30Xpr 1948
SUBJECT:
Japanese Reparations and Level of Industry
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. J. F. Ford, U.K. Member of the FEC Economics Committee
894.60/4-3048
R. W. Barnett, OE
17768
E- Mr. Thorp
Assistant Secretary
COPIES TO: C.T.WOOd - A-T
for Economio Affairs
W.W.Butterworth - FE
MAY 1 3 1948
C.E.Saltzman - A-S
E.M.Martin - OE
J.Allison - NA
R.H.Whitman - OE
R.Fearey - NA
Department of State
M.Hamilton - FE
R.B.Smith - OE
Mr. Ford called by my office at the Far Eastern Commission on Friday,
April 30, to discuss various economic matters of interest to the British
Delegation to the FEC. He stated that he was particularly concerned over the
prospect which seemed to be foreshadowed in various newspaper stories appear-
ing in the American press as well as in Japanese and Chinese newspapers, of a
drastic change in United States policies towards Japan.
Mr. Ford stated that he was "mortally afraid" that the United States
Government would put before the Far Eastern Commission countries entirely new
proposals on Japan's level of industry which would prove to be entirely un-
acceptable to all of the FEC countries. He feared that the United States
Government might have decided that it would move unilaterally on this matter
whether or not it had substantial support for its proposals. Such a develop
ment might, Mr. Ford believed, align many of the FEC countries including the
FILED
U.K. with the USSR.
2
894.60/
He felt that the U.S. Government tended to overlook opportunities to
mobilise support for new proposals it desired to offer by not making diplo-
matic approaches to the various foreign offices of the FEC countries for the
purpose of explaining its views. As an example, Mr. Ford referred to the vot
taken in the Far Eastern Commission on April 29 where the U.S. had been forced
 veto a New Zealand proposal dealing with a Japanese coastal patrol. The
4-3048
.K. delegation on the FEC had been disposed, in early stages of the negotiation,
 po sympathise with the stand taken by the U.S. delegation on this matter. How-
over, on explicit instructions from London, the U.K. delegation voted with the
mjority. The Foreign Office detected and resented in U.S. handling of

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
matters in the FEC an indifference and disregard of views of other countries.
Mr. Ford believed that the present level of industry proposals being
discussed in the Far Eastern Commission, SC-242/19, represented to a very
substantial degree an agreed international position. If it could be sent as
a directive to SCAP, the FEC countries would feel that adequate account had
been taken of their views. Within the authority granted to SCAP in paragraph
10 of FEC O84/22, that policy could be interpreted as broadly as the U.S.
desired.
Any new and strictly American level of industry proposal revising upward
these levels would, Mr. Ford believed, demolish the progress already made in
attaining international agreement on this important issue.
Further, he felt that such American proposals, were they to be made and
acted on, would let loose within the United Kingdom a torrent of public
criticism of the British Government for not having taken a firm line on the
security purposes of a Japanese level of industry decision. These pressures
have been successfully resisted by the Foreign Office for 2& years. Mr. Ford
was particularly concerned over the recent discussions between British and
American textile interests where it was proposed that Japan's textile capacity
be limited to no more than 3.5 million spindles. The narrow, self-interested
views of this pressure group, he believed, presaged like pressures from many
other quarters, including shipbuilding interests in particular, were announced
level of industry to be unreasonably high.
Mr. Ford said that he felt the United States Government would be showing
dangerous indifference to political pressures around the world were it to
insist at this time upon abandonment of reparstions removals or such drastic
curtailment of removals as to imply high levels of retained industrial capacity.
At the same time Mr. Ford believed that if the reparations program were
based either upon the existing interim removals decisions or upon SC-242,
actual removals would probably no: exceed 1/3 of the facilities technically
available for removal under those policies.
He believed that after claimant countries had looked over available
facilities and taken what they desired, they would have little or no interest
in the ultimate disposition of residual capacity. It was unthinkable to him
that unremoved industrial plants should be destroyed.
Mr. Ford stated several times that the U.K. delegation had regretted
having to force the U.S., yesterday, into the employment of the veto. How-
ever, unless the U.S. showed some consideration towards the Far Bastern
Commission and its members and took into due account its labors, he felt
certain that the U.S. would, with the passage of time, be compelled to use
its veto with increasing frequency and to make crude use of the interim
directive without the substantial international support which might be forth-
coming if the United States would take some account of the views and interests
of its FEC colleagues.

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
Mr. Ford stated that the United Kingdom was disturbed by the assumption
put forward by the United States delegation that SCAP could implement the
desires of the U.S. Government without policy direction in the form of axy
directive, either FEC or U.S. interim directive. This procedure, Mr. Ford
felt, rendered it impossible for either Japan or the Far Eastern Commissiom
countries to place responsibility for SCAP's actions where that responsibility
properly should lie -- with the United States Government itself.
Mr. Ford indicated that he himself mas not so much concerned over the
progress of SCAP's reform programs in Japan as he was in the collective
efforts which should be made to place Japan on a self-supporting basis.
Japan's self-support, he thought, was a vital prerequisite for keeping Japan
within the nom-Communist world. He hoped that the steps projected by the
United States Government would not jeopardise the attainment of that objoctive
in Japan by unnecessarily provoking the antagonism of Japen's neighbors and
exciting them to throw up obstacles to a healthy expansion of Japanese com-
mercial activity.

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.86)
AIRGRA
1853
3
PROY:
Shanghal, Chin
A
ACTION OFD
OFFICE OF FINANCIAL AND
DA
Hay 5p 1948.
INFO
DC/N
0
DEVELO
NO
A-320
L
0
UICLAS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SA/M
May
1948
DC/L
bay 11, 19:8 11:02 
ITP
SCSTA
948
OCD
C1:
x
1.2
10
TK
mont has been
mer
ited in
copi
iur Atrgr um In-
arict
T
lileal cience
C0up)
i Inlsed States
2
ns no
the ecoomie re-
cry
Further ree bases
anculd o imple
medo the Far
erton and the
o maintein the
1 duing the period
No econonic
towe be fore
proughly demoera-
i nonopoly nas
almat prmieting
In che hinese
FARTMENT OF SIAJE
HAY
The ditoral
1948
UNCLASE

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.82)
i piet oresees the belief that if tho
  als  yan in tased on these three prin
po  no eee fo woy but r they are not
re Pa E s nat tons wili be direetly threat

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.89)
CRICE OF
AIRGRAN
1854
I   
FROI:
Shanghai, China.
0
MAY Q2 1948
DATT:
Lay 5, 1948.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
NO。
A-381
UNCLASSIFILD
MATLD:
May 7, 1948
May 11, 1948 11:03 am
SECSTATE.
WASHHING TOU.
FD
0
A381Ve3 1.042.
The Pollevin foathes local publie comment has been
mace rogerdine the Steiks report ard is submitted in
complionce wit: ths Depeptmens a Careuler Airgren In-
struot. on of Nareh 17. 8.65 a.m.
60/5-548
Mhe S  IAo  Bupervisec cC Orgen) carried
an edivorial in  s May  e4s, editien entitled "Watch
the Japancse Trdu. trial-Jemmercial Miseion Chosely".
Reference is mado to recent press despatches from Tokyo
concorning the creat lon of a peetel mission including
former directers cnd employoes of tho Vitsui and the Mit-
subishi entery rises e tour the worid purportedly in the
interosts of Japerose cormmerce end industries.
The bditeria? clves the Strike recounendation on
Sapanere incusury. the Kennan statement of support of the
MacArthur peliey, and tho Draper Jission proposal for
Jepan'o future and pays: "This series of propos als has
certaisly cruscd the mbations or the Japanese to revive."
MAW
It goon en to  a 'thike catensilly, he task of tho
6
misslon orgoni ed by she Jepencse Beard of Trade is closely
releted to the developmeat of epan's brade, yet actually.
the miseion is donlgsd o enatle Jupeo to make her eppear-
ance arain amons the nat one." The HecArthur statement,
"Jepan s diple atie pighis should be restored", is an in-
dicetion that ho proposen Japenese industrial-commercial
miss lon also s ms at enga ing in diplometic activities.
Such action before the conclusion c a peace treaty is
described as a da:gerous course which will encourage
MAY 18 1948
DIVISION OF OCCUPIED AR AS
Jepanese
LeeMAY21948
UNCT.SSTFILD
O

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.79)
-2
UNCL 9S DD
A-301. y S. 1948, Prom Bhenghai.
Jepe seoo to revive, The trelusion of Micsui and Mit.
s cbs pli omsonnel "indicates even more clearly the futuce
dire ti. of Japan
So. caitorial closes with the scatement, "We es"
yees s L: focl  haw the Jeprneee peaes broaty should be
cond tul os soon ms peasible, otherrise the Whited Staten
w1
the mors muild p Japen mnllaberally uwnde the
prote
tnt the problem or be Japaiese penee treaty had
0.hre 19
scome a udlcok. thus sner wsing the e naca to
the
CATOT
File Yo soo
DEa 
Heet pe h to he Lepert ment
Copy t mbasoy. Hanking
ITD

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.96)
DC/R
BRITISH EMBASSY.
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
C. 78
8th May, 1948
C
Dear Mr. Smith,
Since our talk at the beginning of
April about the problems of J. & P. Coats in connexion
with resuming operations in their factory in Japan, I
notice that you have still not submitted the promised
paper on restitution claims to the Far Eastern Commis-
894.60/5-848
sion. In eny case, however, I have been thinking
over what you said and it occurs to me that it would
be desirable to encourage, and even to stimulate, the
Japanese authorities to discuss future arrangements
with J. & P. Coats "without prejudice" and on the
broad basis that the question of guaranteeing supplies
of cotton yarn and of providing working capital would
have to be reconsidered in the light of whatever
0
policy decisions are eventually reached.
Yours sincerely,
A. E. Percival
Mr. Rufus B. Smith,
Department of State,
Room 88, Old State Department Building,
CS/
Washington.
69
AEP:MS
H
-848

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.99)
DO NOT DETACH THIS FORM
894.60/5-1148
DESP.I38 FROM WELL INGTON
FILÉ NO.
RECORD COPY
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A DESPATCH HAS BEEN DESIG-
NATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL ACTION
COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS BY
THE ACTION OFFICE.
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
DEC3 1948
FAP
M-184
9-23-48

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.79)
n). 138
MAY20 1010
Ase: ican Logation
Hrlls: cn. Ne. sal nd. Fay 11. 1948
Cu)ject: Tramaitting 15tole0
Revival of Jap. re. ? lusts.
Th. inieor hee th.
to re e to tho epartm at's airgrem
07.74.8:35
to t o ecatin's Lesp stch no. 104.
1943rerding
und r a tione to the pripomed policy
 s 1nd
REC
MAY
Th2nraclosoda
thelecdingarticlapeari
68
  d rut (Aurof No.104. with rd to hi
ACT
 ot. It ct uh ns npe. 'f tior i made of the is rike" report.
OrL
v a icie were iver  tmet by the n. Now
 nd uto a teblor  en jo a wide ciroulat ca throwghout
1N
ie im on cnl wite
c senar i, rel stories, ur ncipally om
D
)ital coda
: sty n f ihe enclosed article is
9
IC
of
:it of ti, occaticnal ar icles which
0
FR
it crrrrs cn 1ateraotiona
ro
1CH
CE
9
Cof to leading: in  Zonland Truth
(1)..9
x
o pa on la Original
0
.1
1i no. 1
AV.
.L
JIA
COM
CA
TCTD

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.91)
RESTRICTED
Enclosuro to despatch me. :38
dated Hay 11. 1945 frem Americes
Legation, Wellington, Hew Zealand
an the subject TRANSHITTING PRESS
ARTICLIS ON REVIVAL OF JAPANESE
INDUSTRY
Souree
New Zealand Truth (Auckland)
Pate:
Tay 5. 1948
Lcoez7
DEEPEL TNG HAMA OF JAPAN
BRITNS INT REST
LOr DoN (1 Catle from F. E. e):  London. the alome of
Allied gurerals glinten es a? ial tlks on Wesserm Darope's defence
stratsgy bagin, but what of  is Pacif et What of New Zealand's
defencor As Cir Siaffor Cr s vie ts Brussele agaia to discuss
estern Union rade. ir. Ant Eden ir a carefully-propared speech
attempt to faseify Briteint: mreao ng mixine and meddling in
corto outaido the British Cexrealt.
Whet of pen? What of tic o)leme of trade mnd defence which so
fsx go almoet unnot ced in t urop -c beessed Eagland, in which even
Corservatives have as much  at 1 the British Dominione today 
thay had 10 yeara aro, which, anloma lcally at least, 1s not very
wnch。
This hectic week, Palaci? o and  ugpslaria have heid the head-
lizes. Yet, baroly a word ? been  rinted in the British mewopapers
s tie vant deaponing drena  lch is vaven.
"Truéh" in Australia, es veil a ymey "Daily Mirror".
Gaberrassed tho Britich Gove nsit re es ly by telling from London
of the nswer Amoricen plans  "deve ooing" the fast robuilding
Janalees omvire. Britain's giect cfd Eurone's heedleesness of
whet is soing on in tho Fer  t is difficult of undezstaading unless
Aritain'e futuro economy as wmed by the Right Hon. C. R. Attlee
vill move farther and farther sway fron she vatient, loyal and very
long-suffering Dominions und cclonies.
In othur words, the Auaalian trsdo troaty with Jepam could
have the farthest-reachig consecuences. Paradoxically. the
Ruropean scone is brighcnins so qu ckly that lagland deliberate-
ly is reteining specteclon of frcstud glass, through which the
public is : sked to view cconomic: lly the Vesterm rowers.
I have a profound respec's for the "Christian Science Nonitor".
not boccuso of its religious import, lut because it is & newspaser.
fosrlec in an alnost quixctic sonse.
Nhile british Cabimet Ministers tare still feeling sorry for
thenselves, tho "Honitor" expoued figures, indicatine that trade pro-
ress im Britain was approaching a record, that there has been a
worldly record in Eurone's factories, and, to put it bluntly, that
more goods wore mamufactured last year in Creat Britain, Norway.
Bolgium, Denmerk and Swedon than in the year before the war.
To put 1t more bluntly still. in France. where in 194h the out-
put of war-devastated fectoriec was 41 per cent. of prevar prodactiom.
today the: are producing 95 per cent.. Italy 70 per cemt.. and
Hollasd 105 per cent.
For these
RESTRICTED

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.90)
RESTRICTED
Enclosare to despatch
-2-
138, May 11, 1948, from
American Legation, Wellimgton, N.Z.
For these reasons aloss, and for the mdded reason of Britaim's
Harshall aid dollars so fa? deprived to uc in the Domimioms, the
Old Cocntry's pernistent slect of Jrpanese problems beosmes
politicaliy unbearable.
Tts latest privato iuf t atior from Japam indicates that
Ititain ie le avins s! she argumrnte with Amerlca to Anstralie.
Doigou Isous
It may be a cleves pisn ef "pwn ing the back." Bat it is mot
a reaconable return to nur  om th) Iovest level to aither Anstralia
ox Ner Zealaed whose wer t: irtance wes unflagging. Syabolic, 
ulso cne of the ecoromi: xa. aons wh: Iritein csn etill exiat today.
The Britiah Governnent his dod yr tho Japaneee isoue with such
vifrontory tist one might  pardoned for thinking that she wanted the
Hershmli doliars in ths "ki:x" before talking about aythiag but the
ittls Toropean couxtriea g?ng on to her at this moment like
limpets on a crustaceen,  thou no one objects so astified
cortroverey vith Kussis,  tatz wh'le ready to beard the Kroulia on
uízor (orman natters. sir: 3 blind ye to America'e abeolute provo-
netlon so the Sovies iz her Japrnesn intertione.
to whils Bonelux cyps to be no mmch more important than
Bariug Streite. Britala s wptchin: cilently the change of America's
poiicy n Japan from ots  industrial med economic mequestratiom.
o ons of alast uncont lcd vcono ic rebabilitation, aa my Waitehall
Frsend said, "on a scals spering atorrlly with that which Japes
unjoyed up to the tine she nsored he lest war."
Amorice is coasies to ssst tribute fran the Javenese.
Americe's policy mett  ily enough world bypass that of Now
Zesland and lastrall, unless Britals with the Duninions made
corpleizt. Britaip a no complaint - this at a timo when
General Hachrthur's  rictions have been that Janan 1s to be
tho workehep of tis ast.
Perhaps peop)e 1n Hew nalend tiil have wenories of Japasese
éoxs vhtch undercut ai Trope. hey may remembor two momths ago
that I cabled thct a prosuostus fror. e Javameso engincering firm under-
cus similar British Mmmire machime prodacts by 50 per cont.
The American State Depsrtment tells isolated British inouirers
that the revival of Japaness trade neans a bulwark against Ruasia.
What it really means is an ver-riding interest by America in
nanete mass production end an oen nnd legitimate bid, if unchecked,
for Aperican control of all the trace in all the eastern countries.
Already, the Paul Hoffaan group has proposed an annual production
of 8,000.000 tons of steel fron Japan. Does it occur to readers
that 1200 miles from viellington, in Australia, & creat steel imdus-
try, paying white men's wages, might be threatemed by coolie laber?
But, bayond the economic fremework, the first rising sirdere of
the mew Japanese structure, ls alrrady to be seen the outlime of a
tlatant tcwering edifice. It is tte recradescence beyend the super-
ficial hamility of the defeated yellow mam of a mew Japamese Empire.
Japam. is
RESTRICTED

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.92)
7
RESTRICTED
Encloure to despatch
-3
138, Nay 11. 1948, from
American Legatiom, Wellingtou, N..
Japan, if alloved to bacone techmically strong vill mot oaly
desire, but will demsnd she sturn of her colomial possessions.
including Koraa.
America has shown greet ckudom notually in assessing Jepam's
frture neede vis-a-vis Ras 'n possfbl, plan in the evemt of the
complete economic and politi: collapa» of Chims. It is becnuse
of ihis reasonable attitude n; Britain'e mmbmess is so incompre-
honsible. Cne does mot i to misquote President Truman, but ome
remombere only too well thet 16 months go, his own reoort spoke
for iteelf.
He said shen that Jrpy se econcmy coald only be made to
work if the coumtry ws: sisher got ing ready for war. er
actnally fighting one.
Ths túference is drawa, osh in London s'lently, and in Camberra
vccelly, that America may a ive positiva assistance to Japan
wit wut raference to Britict. nd Domiaion interest granting her
ccloniel territories as pare of an icee to make her a fit custodian
of sitic peace.
Do rot mintrust Canberra in this re gard. The Anstralian
Govorneant hae shown, an in showing, t ssenmemt against this turn
of avente. Anstrelia rgaria she prerent Jnited Statee course as
a ranevec threat to the seca sp of +he British Commomwealth. as
uc1x as to America itsel.2..
How much longer will ti re be thi: silence from Downing Street?
Or vill Hew Zealnd wit Alstralie force at least a frank
sttiemen: fron eome stshpsiam hure, to whom Turone appeare to
be the ba-all and ond=all of Uaited Kingdem interest?
(Page 4 - aecond
article -
CONCERN OVER U.S. PLANS)
RESTRY CTID

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.90)
RESTRIOTED
Enclesure to despaten 138.
Hay 11, 19ls. from American
Legation. Velliagton, N.2.
CONCEIN OVER U. S. PLANS
LODoN. Special "Truth" Dispatch.- The British Cabiset is
facine strong Anstrlian pressure to oppose mericam plans
to make Japam the "vcrkshop o? the Par East." The Amerlem
indestrial plaa fo: Supaa is shsping up rapidly. folloving
the visit to Tokio of the Undar-Secretary of the U.S. Army
(Hajor--Genoral Williel Lraper).
An anthoritative Poreign Cifice sotrte. which firat revealed Americen
intentions. declared tha he Unitod Statee wes amxious to mmllify
the Far Eastern Conmissiur's decieiors concerning the level of Japemese
irduatay, and desired to stors imp.menting its preductioa scheme
imedintoly.
À Cabinet spokersxa sui ted lut the bedy of Cabinet opimlon
Ind by the Hinletsfy Econom.o Affaire (Sir Stafford Cripps)
wd tho Minlater oalth (r. Anearin Bevam) favore the plam
provided Japanese ssty is nasionalised, bat the Prime
Hfniater (Hr. Attlve) md the Foreiga Minieter (Mr. Rrmest
Bevin) have point ù cut that athingtom has no intention of
introducing Soclelir.
Although General lurArthur has 1 abdi rided hage Japaneee indmastrial
combiars dovoted to milite/ manufcct re. Whitahall beliores that
wealtby Tokio interests it:il cuntrol the rosources, and are adroitly
pyin on he Amarican fr of Comnim in order to strengthem their
cum poritione.
Foreiga Office experin priratoly believe shat renewed Aastralimn
pre: sure on London is the Aroct reauit o? plaßn talking at Camberra
by lir. Hacmahon Ball. orr lritish Commonwenlth member of the Allied
Cuntrol Council for Jepea.
Britain hes been par icularly (zpresaed by Auatraliam argumente.
snpposedly inepired by Mr. Hacmshor Ball. that thu United States wante
a strong ná proaperous Japan as a bastion against Russlan influemce
Ix the Far East.
Canberra reportedly tares the riew that these feare of
Conmanist expansion uro exaggerated and unvarranted, and in
aay case Tascist Japen represents a greater menace to sncarity
in the Pacific.
RESTRI(TED

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY
No. 91
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Yokohama Branch,
Office of the U. S. Political Adviser
Yokohama, Japan, May 20, 1948.
DCIR
Industries Ltd. on Financial, Labo
NORIHEAST
Industrial Problems.
2 1948G
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.
894.60/5-2048
SIR:
I have the honor to enclose for the information of
the Department only, a series of brief memoranda pre-
pared by Mr. Yasujiro OKANO, President of the Mitsubishi
Heavy Industries Ltd., setting forth his personal views
on various problems confronting that company and
Japanese indus try in general. As president of one of
the largest and most important industries in this area,
engaged in miscellaneous manufacturing and the opera-
tion of shipyards engaged in the repair and maintenance
of Japanese and Allied shipping, a s well as some ship
construction, it is thought that lir. Okano's views are
probably representative of those of many other Japanese
businessmen in Yokohana.
The first memorandum concerns the difficulties of
management with the labor movement; the second,. finan-
A/EJH
y~
cial difficulties of industrial companies; the third,
the purge of industrial management personnel; the
fourth, an outline of the labor-management dispute at
the Tokyo Lngineering Works of the company in the
894.504
latter part of 1947; and the fifth, Mr. Okano's views
on recent labor legislation and the labor movement in
Japan.
Respectfullyyours
10
CJ
FILED
A lexts Johnson
American Consul General
1.1948
Enclosures:
D 
ths
Five memoranda.
850
hecty
ap
U. A. Johnson:sf
Original and hectograph to the Department
Copy to Tokyo
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY

=== Page 183 === (confidence 1.00)
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 91, May 20, 1948, from
Yokohama.
Difficulties of the Management
(Chiefly from the point of view of labor).
1. The capriciousness of the labor movement.
2. Decline of the will to work on the part of the
workers.
3. Lack of culture on the part of the workers.
4.
Shortage of expert staff on the Management side to
deal with labor problems.
5.
Insufficient connection among organized federations
of management.
6.
Inconsistency in Government labor policy.
7. Lack of authority of the labor committee.
8. Inappropriateness, in part, of the Labor Union Law.
1. The capriciousness of the labor movement.
In spite of the fact that the Union Law, by the
security of the rights to union and the protection of
the right of collective bargaining, was established for
the advancement of the workers' status and for the
a dvance of economy, the capriciousness of the labor
movement seems to have rendered justified bargaining on
the part of the management practically impossible, as
the following circumstances will illustrate.
Despotism on the part of a minority of the Labor
Union officers. Although the Union is outwardly
run on democratic principles, it is not a rare case
that it is clearly governed by despotism on the
part of its officers. The methods applied resemble
Fascism.
b)
Violence by younger members of the Labor Union.
The despotism is further accentuated in conjunction
with the violence of the younger men. Especially
is this true when younger men compose the greater
part of the Union. In such cases, violence some-
times runs to extremes.
c)
Diffusion of "fraction" Communism.
The existence of this movement very often entirely
bases the character of the group.
d)
Unjustified mistrust by the Union members of the
employers.
Mistrust of the management's policy is specially
strong in the Unions which are run on the above-
mentioned three principles. In such cases, the men
refuse to listen to any clear explanations of the
management. Sometimes they intentionally pretend
not to understand, and cause trouble.
e) The
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1,
CONFIDENTIAL
Despatch No. 91,
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY
Yokohama, May 20, 1948.
-2-
e)
The retrogressive tendencies of the moderate mem-
bers of the Union.
The moderate members which compose the greater part
of the Union are retrogressive in their principles,
and are greatly lacking in spirit to uphold their
own rights and those of the Ünion.
2. Decline of the workers' will to work.
a)
Unsuitable system of payment.
The present system of payment includes factors,
such as family allowances, etc. but is lacking in
such important factors as payment for ability,
skill and output. Consequently, the workers' will
to work is extremely low.
b)
Pressure of high taxation on labor.
The rate of workers' tax above certain incomes is
very high. As a result, workers do not want to
work because their reward in cash is not so much
even if they exert themselves.
c)
Dissatisfaction of skilled workers:
The Union is led by extremists, and the experience
of skilled workers is treated very lightly. More-
over, suitable wages are not paid on the basis of,
or befitting, the skill and efficiency of the workers.
In such cases, the workers' will to work is very
low.
3. Lack of culture of the workers.
Generally speaking Japanese workers lack culture,
consequently they do not fully comprehend the necessity
of rationalization of productive technique and the
reason for the establishment of various testing and
inspection systems in operation in industries. Further-
more, they do not grasp the essence of the system of
encouragement allowances, or "incentive" rewards.
These circumstances seriously hinder the rationaliza-
tion of industry.
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2,
CONFIDENTIAL
Despatch No. 91
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY
Yokohama, May 20, 1948.
Financial Difficulties Facing
Industrial Companies
LACK OF CAPITAL
Reasons:
1.
Financial difficulties arising from the tightening
of financial restrictions.
2.
Fluctuations in official prices of manufactures
from the time of making contract to actual delivery,
especially in shipbuilding industry. Problems of
meeting such increased costs.
3.
Advance in wages due to inflation.
4.
Rise of black-market prices of raw materials due to
advance of official prices.
Owing to the lack of raw materials, it is very
difficult to obtain these at official prices, and
it is only by buying them on the black market that
production can be continued. As official prices
advance, black-market prices also advance, thus
although the official price of the contracted products
is increased, due to the fact that we have to pay
enormous prices for materials there is no corres-
ponding increase in profit; rather on the contrary
there is a decrease.
Conclusions: The loss to industry due to the advance
in the cost of materials and wages, more than offsets
the profit which might accrue due to the rise in offi-
cial prices. Again, the inconsistency between finan-
cial restrictions and increase of demand for capital is
more than ever bringing about financial difficulties.
Moreover, industrial facilities are being rapidly worn
out, the level of labor efficiency is markedly lowered,
being less than 50 percent of the wartime level, and many
companies have a surplus of workers. Here, in conjunc-
tion with the Government's Administrative adjustments,
a rationalization of management is absolutely necessary.
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY

=== Page 186 === (confidence 1.00)
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 91, May 20, 1948, from
Yokohama.
On the Purge of the Industrial World of Japan
We cannot but think that the purge in the indus-
trial world of Japan has gone too far. For example,
the greater part of the men of responsibility in com-
panies which were making munitions during the war have
already been purged, or are about to be purged. There
are among those some who were strong supporters of the
old Japan, and consequently the purge is warranted.
But the grea ter part of the purgees are those who were
forced to follow the mistaken policies during the war.
To purge them in one lot from industry after the termina-
tion of hostilities seems to be an extreme measure, for
the reason that the grea ter part of them are so neces-
sary from knowledge and experience for the rehabilita-
tion of Japanese industries.
Moreover, the larger part of them are men who had
very little responsibility for the war effort, and for
them to remain in industrial circles is essential for a
revival of economy and industries of Japan. Especially
recently there are a great number of young men whose
names are not known, but merely for the fact that they
were directors of munition companies, have been purged,
and it is not just imagination to say that such circum-
stance is distinctly harmful for the revival of Japanese
industries.
A point to be specially mentioned is that most of
them were and are pro-American, but once they have been
subject to the purge, it may turn them into being even
more to the contrary. Such a situation will not benefit
the future relations between the United States and Japan,
upon which so very much depends, but rather is a danger
of bringing harm to such relations. It is for this
reason that we would respectfully ask the United States
Government to kindly reconsider the matter.
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY
Enclosure No. 4, to Despatch No. 91, May 20, 1948, from
Yokohama.
The Labor Troubles at the Tokyo Engineering Works
of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries
An example of prevalent labor strife in Japan.
1. A brief outline of production since the end of the war.
Having obtained permission to reconversion on
October 8th 1945, the Works has since been engaged on
the manufacture of bulldozers, tractors, charcoal gas
producers, agricultural implements, cooking utensils,
and other commodities essential for civilian welfare.
The amount of monthly production, financial status, and
the increase and decrease in the number of workmen are
as given in a separate sheet. When the Works was
designated for the custody and control of its property
for Reparation in August 1946, it was noted as being
one of the best equipped plants for the purpose in the
Kanto district.
2.
Labor conditions.
The white collared employees, composed of clerks
and engineers, are organized in a Union of their own,
which is run on sound and moderate principles, here-
after this Union will be named the Employee's Union.
The workmen which numbered over twenty-odd hundreds (at
present the number is just about two thousand) formed a
Labor Union. At first this Labor Union was attached to
the Japanese Federation of Labor and were moderate in
their activities. However about the time the Employee's
Union was organized the two Unions differed in their
ideologies and the Labor Union withdrew from the Japanese
Federation of Labor in August 1946 and joined the
Japanese Congress of Industrial Organization hereafter
abbreviated to J.C.I.O. of which it has since befome
the most leftist member.
The difference in the idologies of the two Unions
came to a clash and in May 1946, the Labor Union refused
to let the members of the Employee's Union into the plant
and themselves went into a state of sabotage. This was
finally settled by the change of officers of the Labor
Union at the arbitration of the Tokyo-to Labor Committee.
In August 1946 the Labor Union demanded the con-
clusion of a collective contract according to the
instruction from the J.C.I.O. On the Company's refusal
to conclude the contract the Union went into strike.
Notwithstanding the fact that the violence on the part
of the younger men led to an incident in which the
Chief of the Personnel Section was injured, the strike
was settled in October at t he concession of the Company.
Nevertheless many troubles were agitated by the extreme
leftist members of the Union, working under instruc-
tions from the headquarters of the J.C.I.O. the condi-
tions are such that at present one month of good
production is followed by two in which the production
is very low.
In July
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 4,
CONFIDENTIAL
Despatch No. 91
FOR DEPARTMENT U SE ONLY
Yokohama, May 20, 1948.
-2-
In July of this yeart he average pay of the work-
men was raised from 1,800 yen to 2,500 yen per month.
The Union's demand for 2,7o0 was turned down on the
grounds that it was impossible for the Company to bear
any further burden at the present rate of production.
Again in the middle of A ugust an interim allowance of
g0o yen on the average (tax excluded) was demanded to
overcome the present stringent conditions. However as
the payment of such an allowance is altogether impos-
sible at the present state of the Company's finance this
was also turned dowm and the Company advised the work-
men to raise the p roduction which is directly linked
with the income. This advice was neglected and rather
on the contrary a demand for an increase of pay to
double the present amount, viz- an average salary of
6,300 yen per month, together with other demands, was
put forward. At the Company's refusal to this impossible
demand the workmen went into a state of sabotage with-
out warning on about 20th Sept. and in the middle of
October they went into strike.
3. Counter measures against the strike:
The Company has tried its utmost to bring about a
peaceful settlement by collective bargaining but the
Labor Union, persisting in their demands, refuse to make
any concessions. Nevertheless, bound by the present
Collective Agreement, the Company is unable to take any
decisive steps, while the p rolongation of the present
state of affairs is bound to bring about bankruptcy.
Besides, so long as the J.C.I.O. persists in their
present policy for their guiding principle, there is
altogether no prospect for a rehabilitation of Japanese
industry. In this sense it is believed that the only
measure left is for the Union to reflect on itself and
take this opportunity to reorganize itself.
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY
Enclosure No. 5 to Despatch No. 91, May 20, 1948, from
Yokohama.
My Private Opinion on Laws Relating to Labor
and the A ctual Labor Movement in Present-Day Japan
1.
According to the present Labor Union Laws, the qualifi-
cations for becoming a member of a union lack clarity,
consequently we believe that there is an urgent neces-
sity to establish proper limits if Japanese labor
movement is not to go off the track. This is the point
which forms the basis of unnecessary trouble in labor
problems, and moreover gives undue opportunity to
convert the labor movement into a political movement.
2.
The present laws are too stringent on the illegal
actions of the management and too lenient to control
unfair labor practices of the union or their members.
For example, the definition of a labor strike in the
laws can be too widely interpreted, and almost any
action or labor movement can be acknowledged as a s trike
action. It is a well-knovm fact during a strike in the
above sense any action, right or wrong, becomes war-
ranted, and for that reason cannot be punished. Again,
at ordinary times, for example, the officers of a union
although not doing their allotted work, are fully paid
by the Company to specialize in work for the Union.
Thus they are living at the Company's expense.
3.
It is believed that the present labor movement in Japan
is in the dawn of being already controlled by the
minority of the leaders with Communistic principles.
Unless this is controlled by law in some way, a quick
revival of Japanese industries is not to be éxpected,
or at least will be very much retarded. As is well
known, these Communists consider industrial operators
as their enemies, and do not consider in the least a
revival of industry, consequently they have no idea to
co-operate with the operators and avoid wrecking indus-
try. If, therefore, the labor movement in Japanese
industry is left in theinhands to do as they like, there
is no hope whatsoever of industrial revival but only
chaos. In other words, it will never pass the stage of
being a burden to the Únited States. Although no
immediate application of the Taft-Hartley law of the
United States is contemplated, some such restrictions
are considered necessary in Japan.
CONFIDENTIALI
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
WASHINGTON, D. C.
Os
26
RECFTVED
PARTMENT OF STATE
JUN 1 1 1348
MAY 26
CCUPIED AREAS
T SECRETARY
PM 12 34
Honorable Charles E. Saltzman
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
894.60/5-2648
Dear Mr. Saltzman:
Inclosed are 23 reports submitted by the various seotions of
Overseas Consultants, Inc. These reports are being made available
for use in the Department of State at the request of representatives
from your EP and DRF Divisions who have reviewed in the Department
of the Army the basic data developed and collected in Japan by Over-
seas Consultants, Inc. in connection with their "Report on Industrial
Reparations Survey of Japan."
Your attention is invited to the fact that these seotion reports
are classified "Secret." It is considered desirable to maintain that
classification inasmuch as the reports are not official Government
documents and do not represent the coordinated view of SCAp head-
2
quarters. The section reports do not necessarily express the views
of the Overseas Consultants, Inc. since the material contained therein
was developed for consideration by the drafting committee and the
Board of Directors of the corporation in the preparation of the final
report.
Sincerely yours,
CS/ AFLLED
JUL 20 1948
R. M. CHESELDINE
Colonel, GSC
Representative of Secretary
of Army on OCI Contract
23 Incls -
(List attached)
894.60/5-26
SHCS
ir
DECLASSIFIED
E.0. 11652, Sec. 3(E) and 5(D) or (E)
NND760044
1975
CD/MT NARS. DatSEP 8
SECRET
116

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.96)
SCODET
JLPARIMENT OF STATE
1948 MAY 26 PM 12 34
FOR OCCUPIED AREAS
ASSI TANT SECRETARY
LI S T
O F
OVERSEAS CONSULTANTS, INC.
0..
SECTION REPORTS
1 - Report on Group A Projects
2 - Report on Group B Projects
3 - Economio Report
4 - Japanese Iron and Steel Industry (Project A)
5 - Japanese Iron and Steel Industry (Project B)
6 - Japanese Nitric Acid Industry
7 - Japanese Sulphuric Acid Industry
8 - Japanese Soda Ash and Electrolytic Caustic Soda
Manufacturing Facilities
9 - Japanese Synthetic Rubber Manufacturing Facilities
10 - Japanese Cement Productive Capacity
11 - Japanese Ammonia Production Capacity
12 - Japanese Synthetic Oil Facilities
13 - Machine Tools Report
14 - Ball and Roller Bearing Report
15 - Shipbuilding Report
16 - Petroleum Section Interim Report
17 - Petroleum Section
18 - Japanese Aluminum Fabricating Facilities
19 - Japanese Alumina Manufacturing Facilities
20 - Japanese Aluminum Reduction Facilities
21 - Japanese Magnesium Reduction Industry
22 - Electric Generating Facilities in Japan
(Report Under Group "B" Projects)
23 - Electric Generating Facilities in Japan
(Report Under Group "A" Projects)
SEORET
SEURET

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.91)
TOP SECRET
MAY 291948
5-2648
My dear Mr. Secretary:
894.60
894.50
I am replying to your letter or May 26, l94s, to
the Seeretary, in whioh you deseribe the divergent
viewpoints of the two Departments on the subjeet of
894.60/5-2648
Japanese reparations and in which you prepose that the
subject be discussed personally between you and the
Secretary to see if an agreement can be reached befere
the matter is referred to the National Security Cemmeil.
Unfortunately it will not be possible to arrange
f
a meeting with the Secretary before the middle of next
week when he will return from a speaking engagememt im
the West. Immediately upon his return, I shall take
up the matter with him and try to arrange an early
meeting.
Meanwhile, in accordance with your suggestiom, we
have removed the recommendation on reparations frem
the Department of State's "Recommendstions with Respeet
to the National Security Couneil.
Sincerely yours
bhu
E.C
07.
A-LEC
Cas. Clacifice te pht mcke
 tu:  e
Dist.
the signed prig.
. The Honorable
1012m30
Kenneth C. Royall,
Secretary of the Army.
8/S
WWB
miead
n9
FE
JUN 1 1948
NA:MGreon:pm:mp
DECLASSIFIED
TOP SECRET
E.O. 11652. Sec. 3(E) and 5(D) or (E)
1224.
NND76004L1
1975
By.CR/MT NARS, Date SEP..8.

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.97)
TOP SEORET
26 May 19h8
Honorable George C. Marshall
Secretary of State
Washington 25, D. C.
Dear General Marshall:
The Department of the Army has made a careful review and analysis
of the draft paper entitled "Recommendations With Respect to U. S.
Policy Toward Japan" which I understand you propose to submit to the
National Security Council. Several conferences at working levels have
been held between representatives of this Department and the Department
of State and most of the initial differences have been resolved.
There are a few points still at issue which are being discussed
by Under Secretary Draper and Assistant Secretary of State Saltemen,
and I hope they will be able to arrive at satisfactory adjustments.
There remains, however, ons major issue which has not beem
resolved by your representatives and mine, nemely the reubleseme
problem of reparations. You are undeubtedly familiar with the pare-
graph on reparations in the Department of State draft paper. There
appear to be major and at present irreconcilable differences betmeen
the two departments regarding this paragraph as now written with respeet
to the assets available for reparations and also impertant dirferenees
in the procedure for making the reparations program effective.
As you know, the Department of the Army with conourrenee of the
Department of State (Tab A), caused a thorough survey of industries
considered available for reparations in Japan to be mede last year
by the Overseas Consultants, Inc. (OCI). Following reeeipt of their
report and pursuant to conferences between the Department of State
and Army, Mr. Draper went to Japan with the so-called Johnston
Committee which studied the problem of the economic rehabilitation
of Japan. This study obviously had to consider the relation of the
reparations problem to the revival of Japanese industry and the
Committee also discussed the whole reparations euestion and the OCI
report with General MacArthur.
TAD QLO
T0R OLUNLI
1224

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.91)
TOP-BEORET
中
spesifieally ressmended the previsien fer impertatiem ef rom
materiale te permit the stimulation of greater industrial sotivity
in the industries te be permitted te remain in Japan.
Thus, CI, the Johnsten Cemmittee and Goneral Meekrthur (2ab 6)
are in gemeral agreement on the industrial eapacities required fer
Japan. The Department of the Army prepeses that the U. S. Severn-
mest sheuld appreve this pesition respesting the Jepasese regaired
level of industry and the cerrespending available reparatiems, and
publiely amaeunee it as the U. S. pesitiem and submit it te the
Far Eesterm Cemmissien. This prepesal is eentaimed in the Aeay
drart ef the Reparations paragraph fer the prepesed peliey paper.
(Tab D)
The differenees between the twe departments are se fundementel
that I de met believe axy benefit ean be ebbeined by farther
dieeuesim by our representatives. Lecerdingly, I eaggeet thet yeu
and I pereemally diseass this questiem te see if we ean arráve at
an agresment. I hope we ean find seme necoptable selatim but at
least believe that we sheuld persenally discuss the subjest befere
it is referred te the Natienal Sesurity Ceumeil.
I shall endeaver to mke wyself available fer suek a eemferense
at your esmveniemee.
Sineerely yeurs,
(Signed) KENNETH C. ROYALL
Kenneth C. Reyall
4 Inols.
Secretary of the Army
Tab A- 1tr frm Gon.
Hilldring to Mr.
Petersen.
1tr frm Mr.
Petersen te Gen.
Killdrtng dtd 24 July 47.
Tab B - 1tr frm OCI to s/A
endersing Jehnsten figures
dtd 30 Apr 48.
Tab C - SCAP eomments on Jehnston
repert. (C-60510, 8 May. CM-IN 2023)
Tab D - Arzy draft paragraph.
TOP SEORET

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.98)
C
0
P
Y
ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE
WASHINGTON
Dear Pete:
Your letter of 24 July in conjunotion with our oral disoussions
of the Strike Corporation Mission to Japan is a satisfactory settle-
ment of the differenoes which had apparently existed between the view-
points of the Departments on this matter. I am very happy that the
misapprehensions have been disposed of and that the necessary modifi-
oations in the contract arrangements will be made in the manner that
you suggest in your letter.
If the instruotions outlined in your letter are given to Overseas
Consultants, Inc., the State Department will be wholly satisfied on
these points. I, personally, am most gratified by this resolution of
the apparent differences.
You suggested in one of your oommunications to me that the interim
reports of the Corporation will be made available to the War and State
Departments in order to facilitate our oonsideration of the level of
industry and allied matters in the period prior to the submission of
the final report of the Corporation. The State Department is most
anxious that these reports be made available on the same basis as
they are made available to SCAP, and as regularly as possible, in
order to assist in the formation of our official position in FEC and
for the guidance of our general consideration of Japanese eoonomio
matters inoluding reparations.
Sincerely yours,
/s/ JOHN H. HILLDRING
The Honorable
Assistant Seoretary
Howard C. Petersen,
Assistant Seoretary of War.

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
24 July 1947
Honorable John H. Hilldring
The Assistant Seoretary of State
The Department of State
Washington 25, D. C.
Dear Johns
In connection with our discussion of the soope of aotivity of
Overseas Consultants, Inc., under the terms of the contract with the
War Department, Artiole 1 e of that contract requires the personnel
of Overseas Consultants, Ino., to operate under instruotions of the
Seoretary of War or his authorized representative.
Because of the difficulties attendant upon a formal amendment
of the existing contract, the War Department will include the follow-
ing in the instruotions to be given to Overseas Consultants, Ino.,
by the Secretary of War:
394.6019-947
A. Article 1 a (2) and the last clause of (4). Overseas Con-
sultants, Ino., is not engaged to set up or question the level of
industry in Japan as contained in SWNCC 236/43 but, if during the
course of the work done in Japan by the Overseas Consultants, Inc.,
they determine that a specifio level of industry as oontained in SWNCC
236/43, in their opinion is in error, they should inolude that opinion
in their report.
B. Article 1 b (o). SWNCC 236/43 is specifically mentioned in
this Artiole of the contract and Overseas Consultants, Ino., will be
instruoted to be guided by that document.
C. Artiole 1 e. Overseas Consultants, Inc., will be guided
by pertinent approved U. S. or FEC policy decisions.
If you agree to the above, a copy of this letter will be
officially furnished the President of Overseas Consultants, Ino., as
part of his instructions under para 1  of the contract, and copies
will be supplied to General MaoArthur for his information.
I anticipate an early reply from you to the effeot that the State
Department is in full agreement with the purpose and the terms of the
contract between the War Department and the Overseas Consultants, Ino.,
as further amplified by the above agreed instructions.
Sincerely yours,
Howard C. Petersen
The Assistant Seoretary of War

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.96)
DEOTOHOTCD
COPY
-RDOTRIOTED-
Froms SCAP Tokyo Japan
Tos
Dept of Army Wash DC for CSCAD ECON
Nr8
C-60510
8 May 1948
FnToBsee
toded
Reurad WAR 80732, lst May 1948, subject: Comments on reparations
seotion of Johnston Committee report.
There is no disagreement with the general program. Reiterate the
vital necessity for prompt aotion to establish final industrial levels
as one of the most vital contributions to eoonomic recovery.
External assets formerly owned by Japan should be formally released
to the countries holding jurisdiotion over the territories in which
these assets are looated, exoept assets in neutral countries. External
assets in neutral countries should be treated in accordanoe with provisions
of SANACC 236/55; external assets in all other countries should be applied
to meet reparations olaims and all other governmental, corporate and private
olaims against Japan, exoept restitution claims.
With referenoe to shipbuilding capaoity the 162,000 gross tons listed
for removal is being utilized for the programming of exports to the value
of approximately $15,000,000 per year. It is recommended that this
capacity be retained at least for duration of the oooupation.
For your information approximately 20% of the arsenals in the category
or primary war facilities, to inolude 30 to 40% of former Navy shipyards,
is being used for the Japanese domestio economy or for ocoupation purposes
and is not included in the 560,000,000 yen evaluation.
It is assumed that further referenoe will be made to SCAP in oase of
increase in your proposed removals because of political considerations.
End.
CM-IN 2023
(9 May 48)
RESTRIOTED
DEOTGO

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.97)
FOP SECRET
10 May 1948
6. Reparations
The U. S. Government should immediately resoind the Interim Direotive to sCAP
on Advance Transfers of Japanese Reparations. The U. S. Government should adopt
the position outlined below with respeot to reparations from Japan. This position
should be announoed publioly and submitted to the FEC with the information that
the U. S. will not agree to any policy decision on Japanese reparations inoompatible
therewith. Prior to public announcement and submission to the FBC, the U. S.
position should be appropriately brought to the attention of other member govern-
ments of the Far Eastern Commission by the Department of State. The U. S.
reparations position in the FEC should be as follows:
a. Title to Japanese external assets located in territories of Allied Nations
at the time of the Japanese surrender, should be transferred to the governments
of the respeotive nations.
b. SCAP should be direoted to determine, announoe and make available for
reparations claims the categories and quantities of industrial faoilities and
equipment which are not nseded for the economic recovery of a peaoeful Japan and
which are not in exoess of the quantities which the Overseas Consultants, Ino.,
or the Johnston Committee, recommended be made available. Appropriate substitu-
tions may be made as SCAP may determine. The U. S. Government has requested SCAP
to announce publioly, within 30 days after submission of this position to the FBC,
the facilities and equipment whioh would be made available for reparations olaims
upon adoption of this polioy.
o. SCAP should be direoted to receive reparations claims from the FEC
countries for a period of 90 days subsequent to adoption by the FEC of a final
reparations decision.
d. Allocation of available and claimed reparations should be made by SCAP
in accordance with national percentage shares determined by the Far Eastern Com-
mission. Consideration should be given by SCAP in such allocations to items al-
ready delivered pursuant to the U. S. Advanoe Transfers Direotive.
e. Actual allooations and deliveries should be made by SCAP as soon as
possible after adoption of a final FEC reparations decision in order that
recipient nations may have the benefit of the faoilities and equipment as soon
as possible, and in order that reparations deliveries may be completed within a
year of the date of adoption of the policy by the FEC.
fUr ottnrt

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.99)
TOP SEONET•
DISCUSSION OF PROPOSED REPARATIONS
DECISION IN NSC PAPER
The Potsdam Deolaration of 26 July 1945, which was aocepted by the Japanese
in the terms of their surrender, and which has been agreed to by all members
of the FEC, provided that "Japan shall be permitted to maintain suoh industries as
will sustain her economy and permit the exmction of just reparations in kind,
but not those which would enable her to rearm for war." This provision of the
Declaration was an assurance to the defeated Japanese that suffioient industrial
capacity would be left to Japan to sustain a peaceful self-supporting Japanese
eoonomy, while simultaneously reserving to the viotorious allies the right to
receive as reparations in kind all capital plant and equipment excess to the
requirements of a self-sustaining Japanese oonomy. This has formed the basis
for all existing FEC agreements affecting reparations and levels of industry.
Soon after the beginning of the oocupation of Japan it became apparent that the
interests of countries entitled to Japanese reparations, of the Japanese eoonomy
itself and of the United States, which has been supporting the prostrate Japanese
economy, would be best served by an early determination of the amount and
charaoter of reparations deliveries from Japan.
The need for this determination has grown progressively more acute with the
passage of two and one-half years. The Far Eastern Commission has beon unable to
reach any final reparations agreement, although the following FEC deoisions have
been made:
a. "Interim Reparations Removals". These decisions required SCAP to
designate, as available for reparations claims, appropriate facilities in excess
of specified oapacities in certain Japanese war potential industries. The
deoisions did not provide for removal or transfer of designated facilities
because the FEC had not determined the various national peroentage shares of
available facilities and the procedures for applying these shares. It was the
understanding of all concerned that these interim deoisions, based on an initial
survey by Ambassador Pauley, involved industrial capaoity "obviously exoess" to
that required to maintain a self-sustaining Japanese economy. (The U. S.
Government, in the absence of further agreement in the FEC, direoted SCAP to
begin "advance transfers" of thirty peroent of the capacity determined to be
available under these decisions to the nations most devastated by the war in the
Far East; China, the Philippine Commonwealth, the Netherlands East Indies and
Eritish areas of South East Asia. Delivery has begun on some 19,O00 machine
tools from goverment arsenals which SCAP declared available pursuant to this
directive.)
b. "Delivery of Reparations Goods". This decision provided that all
the expenses of removing allooated reparations items, inoluding loading aboard
ship at designated Japanese ports, would be borne by the Japanese Government.
c. "Determination of the Peaceful Needs of Japan". This decision
defined the peaceful needs of the Japanese people as being substantially the
standard of living prevailing in Japan during the period 1930-1934.
d. "Reduotion of Japanese Industrial War Potential". This decision
provided that industrial faoilities in excess of that required for the peaceful
needs of Japan should be made available for reparations claims. It also pro-
vided that the levels determined by such removals would remain fixed until
TOP SEGRET
otober 1949.

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
The need for an early reparations decision, so apparent two years ago, has
beome oumulatively more urgent with the passage of time. Sinoe the initial
survey by Ambassador Pauley there have been subsequent and more exhaustive
studies of the Japanese coonomy with a view to a more exact determination of
reparations availabilities. These studies and the continuing defioit of the
Japanese economy indicate clearly that the above enumerated FEC decisions are
mutually conflioting. While providing for a self-supporting Japan on a 1930-34
basis, these decisions set levels of industry making achievement of this
objeotive impossible. The amount of capital plant and equipment actually in
existence and available for reparations from Japan will be comparatively amall
in Japan is to retain sufficient industrial capaoity to provide a self-sustaining
eoonomy on the 1930-1934 basis.
Because the U. S. is committed to the terms of the Potsdam Deolaration,
because the U. S. alone is paying the costs of relief in Japan, and because a final
decision by the FEC apparently cannot be obtained, it is neoessary that the U. S.
resolve this problem et once on a basis whioh gives reasonable assuranoe that
reparations removals do not eliminate equipment which is needed for the economio
recovery of a peaceful, self-supporting Japan. This oriterion was applied in the
reoent studies by the Overseas Consultants, Ino. and by the Johnston Committee.
SCAP has recommended that reparations deliveries not exoeed the quantities
indicated as available by either of these groups of consultants, has stated that
in certain instances equipment listed by them for reparations could actually be
used to contribute to economic recovery, and has pointed out that muoh of the
equipment would have comparatively little value to the recipient countries.
The United States could take unilateral action to solve the reparations
problem along the lines discussed in the preoeding paragraph. Suoh unilateral
action could undoubtedly be explained to the American people, and to many of
the nations of the FEC, as being fully consistent with well-known U. S.
objeotives and with the Potsdam Declaration, but it would be interpreted by
certain FEC nations as contrary to the letter of existing U. S. commitments in
the FEC. The Moscow A reement allows unilateral U. S. action only on matters
on which the FEC has not already formulated a deoision. As indioated above, the
FEC decisions affeoting reparations are mutually conflioting, and a satisfaotory
reparations solution oannot be achieved without infringement of the "Interim
Reparations Removals" decisions. Unilateral U. S. action could thus be considered
to oonstitute a breach of the Moscow Agreement and could have grave politioal
consequenoes.
The United States, on the other hand, could continue its attempts to obtain
FEC agreement to a satisfactory solution to the reparations problem. It is
realized that no final agreement has been possible in the past, but this has
been harmful to J. S. interests in Japan primarily because of the adverse effeots
on economio recovery of the continuing uncertainty in Japan. This unoertainty
would disappear if the U. S. Government were to (a) announoe publioly that it
would agree only with a polioy decision fully consonant with the Potsdam
Declaration, (b) publish the provisions of a U. S. reparations position which
is fully consonant with the Potsdam Declaration, and (o) announoe further that
the U. S. will not agree to a polioy decision incompatible with the U. S.
position. Such a course of aotion would be legally justifiable, even in the
TUP SECHET
SEUGT

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.92)
-3-
light of past FEc decisions since, there being no reparations agreement eapable
of implomentation, the United States may at any time submit new proposals for
FEC approval. The firm position and intent of the United States having been
made publio, however, unoertainty in Japan would be relieved and it would mean
that, for all intents and purposes, the final deoision respeoting reparations
would have been made. It would, of course, be necessary to resoind simultaneously
the U. S. Interim Directive on Advanoe Transfers of Japanese Reparations inasmuch
as its provisions are oontrary to the present U. S. position.
U

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
Dear Celenel Cheseldine:
894.60/5-2648
The twenty-three reports which you kindly made available to
the Department of State from the files of Orerseas Consultants
Incorporated have been transmitted to our EP Division whish
originally requested them. You mmy be assured that the Besret
classification on these reports will be protected by the Depart-
ment. We have noted however that, in addition to expressioms of
the views of the OCI, the reports contain considerabls amomts of
basie data from unclassified souroes not previously available in
Washington.
EP has received requests from the Secretariat of the Far East-
ern Commission for amplification of a few statements contained is
the OCI report. EP's review of the OCI file material reveals that
three of these questions can be answered from data of an intrinsieml-
J
ly non-classified nature contained in the CI file mterial. Attack-
ed is a list of the questions together with the replies whish IP
proposes to mmke. We should appreciate your conourrence in our
proposal to submit this mmterial to the FEC Searetariat.
1. Question: CI states that ESS has estimated Japanese
civilian requirements of nitric acid for the year 1950 as 28,900
m.t. What is the estimated breakdown by categories of use?
CS/A
Ansver: 1950 level of nitrie acid prodaction required for
the minimum balanced economy as stated by the Boonomic and Seien-
tifie Section, Chemical Industry Branch, SCAP.
Nitrie aald
(as tons of
100% acid)
SECRE
89
Explesives (10,000 tons of Ammonium Nitrate
needed beside Nitrie acid)
Nitrocelfulese...
2,900
0
Representative of Seoretary
of Army on CI Contract
SECP
1168

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.95)
tria.ad
taa tens et
100% acid)
Celluleid
6,600
Dyestaffs
7,000
Medieines and Drug intermediates
2,700
Elestrieal manufaeture
1,650
Metal and rubber consumer goods
150
670
Organie shemieals
400
Insesticides
1,000
Inorganie chemicals and miscellaneous
2.030
Total ... 28,900
2. Question: cI states that, according to estiates made
by the Textile Divisien of Ess, domestic use of textiles for eleth-
ing purposes in the period 1930 to 1934 averaged about 8.93 pounds
and industrial uses about 2.32 pounds per eapita per year. How was
this use bevken down by types of textile fibers?
Answer: Data accummlated by the Japanese Eoonemie Stabili-
ation Board, which were eorroborated by data from Ess,shew the
following figures for average annual per capita use in 1930-34 fer
clothing and industrial applications:
Cotton yarn
7.158
Rayon staple
0.042
Worsted and woolen
1.376
Raw silk yarn
0.33
Spum silk
0.132
Rayon yarn
0.584
Hard fiber
1.63
11.252
3. Question: CI states that in 1953, the popalation of
Japan is estimated at 85.8 million, or approximately 131% af 1930-
34. What is the souroe of this estimate?
Angver: This estimte, stated to be preliminary, was
made by the Population and Employment Branch, Researah and Statis-
tics Division, Economie and Scientifio Section, SCaP, in Osteber
1947.
Sincerely yours,
Charles E. Saltsman
Ch1
Assistant Secretary
JUN 10 1948 P
SECRET
03031
SGK
EP:SGkailis:cmb
6/2/48
EP

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.95)
ACTIO
No. 553
is assigned to
:5S
RESTRICTED
AMERICAN
Shanghai,
1948
SuBJEcT: Message for President Truman and Seoretary
1-1403
of State Marshall from'Presidents and Professors
of Shanghai Universities
DGR
811.001
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
I have the honor to enclose herewith a copy of
1/
a message which I have received from the President
of the National Fuh Tan University oriticizing our
policy of rehabilitating Japanese peaceful industries.
2/
I also enclose a copy of my reply, from which the
Department will note that I suggested that the
E
message be transmitted through the Chinese Embassy
S-PR
in Washington.
Respectfully yourg
PL
OE
CS/V
John M. Cabot
0
American Consul General
677
Enclosures:
1. Message for President
Truman and Secretary of
Dck
State Marshall
2. Copy of letter to Mr. Tsang.
5
894.60
Original and ozalid to Department
OCT 29 1948
98P014
JMC: cms

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.99)
MATIONAL FUH TAN UNIVERBITY
KIANGWAN, SHANGHAI
CHINA
June 1, 1948.
Mr. John M. Cabot,
American Consul General,
American Consulate General,
Shanghai.
Dear Sir:
I am asked by my colleagues to deliver to you an
open letter addressed to President Truman and Seeretary
Marshall and signed by presidents and professors of
oolleges and universities in Shanghai whioh they wish
to be forwarded to Their Excellenoies through your
offioe. I should deeply appreciate it if you would
be so kind as to comply with their wishes.
Sinoerely yours,
Y. Y. Tsang
President

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.99)
Eno. 1, Despatch 553,
June 4, 1948, from
Shanghai
(TRANSLATION)
(Trans. CHT)
(Dated: May 31, 1948.)
(Reod.: June 3, 1948.)
Their Excellencies
President Truman and
Secretary of State Marshall
of the United States of America
Excellencies:
In view of the policies vis-a-vis Japan recently advooated
by certain responsible Americans which may possibly bring about
a grave error, we as your admonishing friends wish to express
to you briefly our humble opinion as described below.
First of all we wish to state that the relations existing
between China and the United States are very intimate, and that
the friendship between the peoples of these two countries is
likewise very close. Therefore, any statements made by us in
regard to the policy of your country toward Japan are entirely
sincere and in good faith.
The polioy advocated by the United States toward Japan that
due consideration should be given to essential living requirements
of Japanese people so that they may not be starved, is based on
humanity and is exaotly in agreement with China's polioy of
magnanimity toward Japanese people.
However, recently your country has shown a tendenoy of per-
mitting Japan to raise her industry to a standard even higher
than the pre-war level and also giving Japan a huge quantity of
materials and pecuniary aid. This is really not necessary. If
it is intended to rebuild Japan to be an industrial center in
the Far East and to make China and other Asiatio countries her
raw material suppliers and her market for dumping of manufaotured
goods, it will thus mean that your country is accelerating revival
of Japan's plans which motivated her to start war in East Asia.
To oppose such plans, China was engaged in the eight long year
stiff and bitter war of resistance. If such plans should revive,
China's sacrifices as well as your country's losses of lives and
wealth sustained during the war against Japan would be in vain.
China was the first to resist Japanese war of aggression.
The duration of the war was the longest, and China suffered the
heaviest losses and damages. The living conditions of Chinese
people are even worse than those of Japanese people. Neverthe-
less, as regards your country's aid to China, after your pro-
longed considerations the amount is still not so generous as
your country extends to Japan. When we recall that the United
States and China were the allies fighting shoulder by shoulder
for democracy while Japan was our enemy who employed shameless
measures to strike a sudden blow on an important strategio point
of your country and who murdered and wounded warriors of your
country, we are really at a loss to understand why the United
States is at present planning to adopt such policy of helping
Japan. Taking justice into consideration, we deeply feel that
the United States should shift her aid for Japan to China.
If

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.99)
Ene. 1; Despatch 553,
June 4, 1948, from
Shanghai
-2-
If any persons among your people should dream that Japan
after her recovery may become your country's ally and may aet
as a fortress for democracy and stabilizing foroe in East Asia,
we shall be very glad to break up such fantastio idea. Post-
war Japan remains the same as pre-war Japan in substanoe. The
Japanese authorities are taking all sorts of deceptive measures
to pose themselves to be submissive in order to please your
country's officials stationed in Japan, but in faot they have
no determination at all to carry out democracy. The hidden
influences of the old-time militarists still exist in Japan.
Should Japan be now permitted to keep heavy industry establish-
ments and given a chance to re-arm herself and as soon as she
is full-fledged, the Pearl Harbor incident will undoubtedly be
repeated. Sometimes it is unavoidable that your country's views
concerning the Far Eastern situation are not exactly ∞rreot.
It is reoalled that at the time of the outbreak of the Mukden
inoident on September 18, 194l, the people of China repeatedly
appealed to your country for help but that such appeals were
disregarded by your country, thereby resulting in the recent
unpreoedented disaster. In view of the possibility of revival
of another crisis, we are constrained to offer you our honest
and frank advice and sincerely hope that you will accept it.
Many far-sighted Americans share this view that in order
to seek for world peace, East Asia must first be stabilized,
and that in order to stabilize East Asia China must definitely
be made independent and strong. This far-reaching and profound
polioy cannot be abandoned because of China's present diffioult
position. The people of China are always fond of peace. China
is marching forward in the direction of demooraoy. A great
majority of the people of China are willing to become friends
of the United States. It is only China which can be the ideal
stabilizing force in East Asia and also which is not contrary
to the wishes of the United States.
We earnestly hope that the United States will deoidedly
give up the plan for helping Japan, concentrate her strength,
and expedite aid to China with even larger quantity of materials,
in order to enable China to achieve reconstructions at an early
date. We feel oonfident that the foundation for everlasting
world peace cannot be firmly established unless China and the
United States can help each other with the utmost sinoerity and
can cooperate with other democratic nations in the world.
Professors of National and Private Colleges
and Universities at Shanghai, China:
(Names listed according to the order of number
of strokes of first characters)
Ting Wen-yuan
Ting Wen-piao
Ting Mien-tsai
Ting Hsieh-ho
Ting Hsing-po
Yu Tsai-ch'un
Wang Chih-cho
Wang Wen-ohun
Wang Chih-hsin
Wang Yu-hsiang
Wang Ta-shih
Wang Shu-lun
Wang Hsing-wu
Wang T'ing-kuei
Wang Kuan-oh'ing
Wang Te-chun
Wang Shu-chia
Wang T'ing-ch'i
Wang Shao-t'ang
Wang Ch'ien
Wang Chu-oh'ang
Wang Yu-k'ai
Wang Wen-yuan
Wang Fu-shan
Wang Hung-wen
Wang Ch'eng-ch'un
Wang Yu-oh'i
Wang Feng-ch
Wang P'eng-wan
Wang Tse-nung
Wang Yi-san
Wang Chien-
Fang T'ung-yuan
P'ing Hai-lan
Kan Yun-shou
Pao Tsung-ku
Pao En-ohu
Ssut'u Yin-heng
Chu Ching-nung
Chung Kuo-d
Chu Lin-wu
Chu Heng-pi
Chu Wei-ohih
Chu Wu-hua
Chu Ta-k'o
Chu Tzu-oh'ing
Chu Kuang-shih
Chu Yu-liang
Chu Chin-ohiang
Chu Ch'eng
Chu Pao-yung
Chu Yu-hsion

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.99)
Eno. 1, Despatoh 553,
June 4, 1948, from
Shanghai
-3-
Chu Jen-pao
Chiang Shao-ying
Chiang Jen-shou
Chiang Hung
Chiang K'o-tsung
Jen Lang
Mou Jun-sun
Wu Lu-fu
Wu Yu-wan
Chi Min-sheng
Shu Shih-chieh
Li Shou-yung
Li Kuang-hsi
Li Hsien-nuan
Li Ping-yu
Li Tzu-kao
Wu Nan-hsien
Wu Yu-chien
Wu Hao-jan
Wu Tse
Wu Tao-k'un
Wu Cheng
Wu Chien-lan
Ho Te-hao
Ho Hai-yen
Ho Chao-lin
Shen Tzu-shan
Shen Tzu-shu
Shen Ssu-chuang
Shen Lien-ohih
Shen Hsiao-hung
Tu Tso-chou
Yen Hsin-che
Wang P'ei-yuan
Wang Sheng-yuan
Wang Ai-yung
Yu Jih-hsuan
Yu Nan-ch'iu
Yu Chun-tsung
Sung Ch'ong-ohih
Sung Tzu-ohiang
Sund Shou-oh'ang
Sung Wu-sheng
Sung Hsing-ts'un
Wu Wei-ch'uan
Wu P'i-chi
Wu Pang-wei
Wu Chih-han
Wu Shih-yu
Ku T'ung-ch'ien
Leng Hsueh-ch'iao Sha Huai-p'ing
Chou Ming
Chou Liang-han
Chou Tsu-hsun
Chou Chien-min
Chou Chung-ch'ien
Chou Chun-shih
Chou Pen-lien
Chou Tan
Chou Wen-wei
Chou Kuan-chun
Chou Shang
Jui Pao-kung
Chin Chao-chun
Chin Shou-li
Chin T'iao-sheng
Chin Te-chien
Chin Wen-ch'i
Lin Hai-ming
Lin Ts'ung-chou
Lin Ching-oh'eng
Lin Kuo-kao
Chi Wen-mei
Wu Ch'ung-lin
Hu Tun-fu
Hu Cho
Hu Fan-jo
Hu Hsueh-oh'in
Hu Yuan-yi
Hu Chao-ying
Hu Che-k'uei
Yao Ch'i-chun
Vao T'ieh-hsin
Yu Cheng
Ma Kuo-jung
Ma Feng-chou
Chu Chia-sheng
Ch'ai Chih-ming
Yu Feng-oh'i
Yu Shao-hua
Po Chih-wei
Hung Ch'ing
Shih Po-heng
Shih Chih-ch'ien
Miao Yu-kao
Hsu Shou-wu
Hsu Cheng
Hsu Feng
Hsu Jen
Hsu Mo-keng
Hsu Chu
Hsu Feng-tsao
Hsu Chi-oh'ang
Hsu Ho-yen
Sun Li-oh'un
Sun Chih-kung
Sun Chen-hsien
Sun Kuei-ting
Sun Ping-chang
Sun Sheng-tseng
T'ang Wen-chih
T'ang Ning-K'ang
T'ang Mao-huai
T'ang Yao-fu
T'ang Che
T'ang Ch'i-hsien
Liang Chih-yen
Liang Shu-wen
Yuan Ch'i-chen
Yuan Ang
Yuan Che
Ling Hsien-yang
Ling Shu-mo
Fan Hui-kuo
Fan Chi-p'ing
Hsi Ming-chi
Yin Ming-lu
Mo Chung-yi
Keng Tan-ju
Hsi Ying-chung
Ch'en Sung-mao
Ch'en Ching-ch'i
Ch'en Ming-en
Ch'en Ta-hsieh
Ch'en Hu
Ch'en Chi-tan
Ch'en Cheng-hsiu
Ch'en Chen
Ch'en Ying
Ch'en Wen-lin
Ch'en Wei-hsin
Ch'en Yun-sun
Ch'en Kung-oh'u
Ch'en Ch'i-yun
Ch'en Kao-yung
Ch'en Ch'uan-chang Ch'en Chih-p'ing
Ch'en Ch'ien
Ch'en K'o-mei
Ch'en En-feng
Ch'en P'u
Ch'en Shih-t'i
Chang Ts'ang-shan
Chang Ch'ing-guan Chang Chu-jen
Chang Wo-ts'ai
Chang
Ch'un-ohiang
Chang
Chien-ch'ing Chang Po-chen
Chang
Ch'iang-chun Chang
Yuan-yang
Chang
Hui-sheng
Chang Shu-tsu
Chang
Tsung-ch'ien Chang
Ching-hsien
Chang
Hsiang-hsien Chang Ho-ts'en
Chang Ch'ang-shao
Huang
Ch'i-yuan
Huang Ch'iang-ying Huang Lu-fang
Huang Hsi-t'ang
Huang Ching-ssu
Huang Yen-ch'i
Huang Tsung-yu
Huang Chu-p'ing
Huang Shih-ming
Huang Yun-mei
Lu Ching-sun
Lu Hsiu-ku
Lu Yu-yen
Lu T'ieh-ch'eng
Lu Chen-pang
Feng Huan-wen
Feng Yao-chia
Feng Ting-chang
Feng Pao-lin
Ts'ui Tsung-hsuan
Ts'ui Ming-ch'i
Ts'ui Hsi-chang
Chang Yi
Chang Hung-mei
Chang Yuan-ching
Ts'ao Hao-sun
Ts'ao Ching-k'ang
Kao Huai-jung
Kao Yang-chih
KuonChi-jen
Kuo Chin-yuan
T'ao Shao-yuan
T'ao Yu-ch'uan
Hsu Hsin-wu
Hsu Yi-oh'ao
Ch'i Tso-chun
Ch'i Ch'i-chang
Fu Hai-ch'iu
Tsou Wen-hai
T'u K'ai-yuan
Ch'eng Hsiao-kang
Ch'eng Te-hsu
Ch'eng Wen-hsin
Ch'eng Mao-yun
Ko Shou-yuan
Ko Han-hsing
Ko Chu-k'ang
Ko Sui-ch'eng
Ko Huai-ch'eng
Tseng Tso-chung
T'ung Shu-yeh
T'ung Tsu-ch'ing
Ho Liang
Wen Hsieh-chun
Yang P'eng-chi
Yang P'ei-chang
Yang Yi
Yang Chen-hua
Yang Pao-an
Yang Ch'ao-ch'ien
Yang Wen-ta
Yeh Shang-yuan
Yeh Hsueh-an
Yeh Shu-liang
Yeh Shu-ju
Yeh Yu-yen
Chan Chia-chung

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.99)
Eno. 1; Despatoh.553,
June 4, 1948, from
Shanghai
-4-
Ching Hsiao-ch'uan Shen Hsiang-ta
Ch'iu Fa-tsu
Lu Shun-k'ue
Li Chao-huan (J.Usang Ly) Li Ssu-lin
Chao Fu-tan
Chao Chie
Chao Kung-chi
Chiang T'ien-shu
Chiang T'ieh-shan Chiang Taal
Kuan Pin-chih
Ch'i Chih-k'o
Liao Fu-chun
Liu Hai-shu
Liu Yen-ch'ing
Liu Jui
Liu Huan-wen
Liu Yu-ken
Liu Po-min
Liu Hsin-hua
Liu Yi-nung
Liu Ching-oh'i
P'an Hsu-lun
P'an Chien-ch'ing
P'an Yi-ch'iang
P'an Sung-yuan
Ou Yuan-huai
Ou Kuo-oh'ing
Lu Chi-tseng
Lu Mang
Ts'ai Wen-hs1
Ts'ai Tse
Ts'ai Chen-pang
Ch'ien Hu-t'img
Ch'ien Pai-shui
Ch'ien Wang-cho
Ch'ien Su-chun
Ch'ien Chung-yen
Cheng Shih-oh'a
Cheng Chang-ch'eng
Cheng Hsia-fei
Cheng Ta-yuan
Lu Shih-lu
Lu Hsi-jung
Lu Yi-chen
Lu Hsiu
Teng Ching-hua
Hsueh Chin
Hsueh Chung-san
Hsueh Fen
Hsueh Te-yu
Hsieh Hai-yen
Hsieh Chao-Hsiung Hsieh Yu-chin
Ying Ch'eng-yi
Ying Kung-chiu
Tai Ts'ui-lun
Tai Li-wen
Chung Ssu
Hsiao Hsueh-chung
Hsiao Tzu-oh'iang Nieh Shao-ohing
Han Chung-ch'i
Kuan Yu-ohih
Wei Hsi
Yen Chia-hsion
Yen Chun
Yen Chu-sheng
Su Hsi-shih
Su Chih-chien
T'an Ch'i-meng
T'ang T'ung-k'un
Lo Chih-jui
Ku Wen-tsao
Ku Fo-ying
Ku Fu-ts'ao
Mu Yuan-ch'iu
Kung Ch'ing-hao
Kung Chi-tao
(Lists of original signatures are retained for reference
at various schools concerned.)
CHT
Copied by cms

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.92)
Enclosure 2,
June 4, 1948, from
Ameriean Gensulete GememeÀ
Bhanghai, Chlne
Jane 40 1948
My dear Presideat Teang:
I wish te aeknowledge reseipt of your lester of
June 1, 194s, 1n which you were good anough to farward
a lester frum a group of presidents and prefessere ef
Shanghal universities te President Traman and Sesretary
Marakell. It would naturally be of the greatest pleesare
ing between our two couatries, and partiem larly with
respeet to the manner in whish publle opimien regards
our matual preblems. Nevertheless, as a matter of
eemity the right of deelsion as to what oommasicstiens
frem Chinese may properly be sent to aay orfieials of
the Government of the United States 1s reserved te the
Chinese Geverament. Under intermational praetiee the
proper channel of transmission would normally be the
Chinese Embassy in Washington. I venture to peist out,
therefore, that it would be more apprepriate if you
were to transmit the message through this chanmel.
Simeerely yours,
Jahn M. Cabot
American Consul General
Eselesure:
Message te President Truman
and Seeretary Marshall.
Mr. Y. Y. Tsans.
President, Mational Fah Tan University,
Kiangwan, Shanghai, China.
A true copy of
the signd ori-
ginal.
C21.1

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
June 10, 1948
No.
UNCI
Subje
stical Adviser has the honor to refer to this
Thd
in Kyushu and to enclose one copy each of the following reperts presented
by individual companies to an officer of this Mission during a trip to
that aree:
24
1.
"Outline of Yawata Works of the Japan Iron and Steel
Co., Ltd."
2.
"Outline of Kurosaki Factory of the Mitsubishi Chemical
894.60/6-1048
 91 N0P 8761
Industries Ltd,"
"Outline of Sasebo Ship Industry Co., Ltd."
"Repgrt of the Works - Nagasaki Precision Machine Works,
Mitwubishi Heavy Industries Co., Ltd."
54
"Genéral Description - Nagasaki Shipyard and Engine Works,
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd."
In despatch No. 32l, comments have already been mede regarding various
aspects of these companies. The Department's attention is perticularly
invited to the list of products (in addition to ships) being mamufaetured
or repaired by the Nagasaki Shipyard and Engine Works (report no. 5).
such as coal cars, locomotives, and steam turbines. The yard for bailding
ships is by no means operating at a high level of its capacity, so that
additional work would be welcomed.
The Nagasaki Precision Machine Works (report no. 4) has been
described in despatch No. 321 of June 4, 1948 as one of the companies
designated for reparations, but now producing useful equipment. The
Military Government Team in Nagasaki hes recommended that at least the
A/MK
680 machines mentioned in thereport as in use be exempted from reparations.
Enclosures:
As stated above.
DIVISION OF OCQUPIED ARCAS
FPART
ECO、OMIC. AFRNNEV
JUN HI JOAD
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AN
FI1D
Original and ozalid to Department.
320
865
WHLawrence, Jr.:mhp
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.97)
STAIDARD FORL
Office Memoran
DSTATES GOVERNMENT
E: July 2, 1948
TO
NA - Mr. Alon
FE - Mr. Benhanghorf
FROM :
SUBJECT :
Attached Lettr from Congressman
Anderson
Mr. Butterwo
gsugge
that a reply
to Mr. Anderson be prepared
indicating that
the importation oron ore
Into Japan is a
matter now being heandled by
CAP, and if
desired we would be glad totransmit to SCAP
any request Mr. Inge
iht have.
 in
Dick Ely tells me that the enterprising
question 1s highly reputable. The letter
the company itself would have to ascertain
M
the attitude of the Philippine Government
toward exports to Japan.
894.
FE:HMBenninghoff:abs

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.96)
JACK Z. ANDERS
Congplss of the Anited States
ouse of Representatibes
Mashington, D. C.
894.60/7-148
July 1, 1948
20
Far Eastern Affairs
Departmont of State
Washington, D. C.
X
Dear Mr. Butterworth:
The enclosed newspaper clipping and letter
from Frank B. In ersoll of Burlingame, California,
are self-explanatory.
I have taken the matter up with the Ambassador
of the Philippines and am advised that it will be
up to the United States Goverment or the Far
Jastern Conniss on to decide whether or not the
steel industries of Japan will be restored. Any
information you can furnisl: me which I can trans-
CS/V
nit to ir. ingersoll will be appreciated.
With best wishes, I am
Jart lichres
JZA:L
Enc. 2
JUL 2 3 1948
894.60
FILED
WA

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.99)
COSGRIFF, CARR, MoCLELLAN & INGERSOLL
Attorneys At Law
329 Primrose Road
Burlingame, California
April 7, 1948
COPY
Honorable Jack Anderson
Congressman Eighth California Distriot
House Office Building
Washington, D. C.
Dear Jack:
Prior to my father's death 1n 1944 I believe he wrote to
you a number of times about interests whioh he held in
the Philippine Islands. These interests have remained
in his estate and will eventually be distributed to my
mother. Among the property in the estate 1s a sizable
group of shares in the Philippine Iron Mines. In
addition to the shares held by the estate, my mother
and I own considerable number of shares in this Iron
Mining Corporation. This Iron Mine was developed largely
through the efforts of my father, and I would ay that
our family now controls approximately 1/3 of the stook
in the Company. The Company, however, has not
operated since July of l940 at which time it was
closed down by United States Government Order.
The only market for Philippine Iron ore has been Japan,
and unless coking furnaces are built in China or the
Philippines, Japan would continue to be the only market
for this iron ore, as freight rates are prohibitive to
exportation to any other market.
We and the other persons interested in this Iron Mine
have attempted to do nothing with the mine since the
United States Government Order in 194O. The War has
not only stopped the operation of the mine, but due to
the elements and the Japanese picking up such equipment
as they desired, there is really very little left in
the way of operating equipment at the mine; however,
because of the relatively small expense involved in
extracting the ore and loading it on to ships it would
be a relatively simple matter to place this property in
operation again if the market for the ore could be se-
cured.

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.99)
Honorable Jaok Anderson
Congressman Eighth California District
-2-
4/7/48
In this morning's Chronicle I have noted an artiole
whioh would indicate that the United States is ready
to help restore industry in Japan to its powtwar
level. Ir this is done it will be necessary for Japan
to start importing iron ore, and we would be very
interested in being able to negotiate some kind of a
contract for the Philippine Iron Mines.
Knowing that you have taken a very active interest in
the problems of the Far East and Military Defense, I
thought that perhaps you might be an a position to
advise me what is actually going on behind the soenes
in this regard. It is my feeling that if possible, the
United States should try to help those Americans who
spent practically their whole liwes in the Philippines
developing the resources and industries of that country,
and who, by reason of the War, have been in a great many
cases practically wiped out. I would appreciate hearing
your attitude in regards to presenting a bill which
might either be a part of the Japanese Aid Bill or a
Companion Bill which would make it possible to help
interests in the Philippines at the same time that we
are revitalizing Japan.
With best personal regards, I am
Yours very sincerely,
(Signed)
FRANK B. INGERSOLL, JR.
FBI:HK

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.97)
JUL 9 948
894.60/7-148
In reply refer to
LA
My deer Mr. Anderson:
I have your letter of July 1, l948, to Mr. W. Walton
Butterworth, Direetor or the Office of Far Eastern Affairs,
enclosing a letter with attached newspaper elipping from
Mr. Frank B. Ingersoll of Burlingame, California, In which
Mr. Ingersoll inquires regarding plans for the revival of
Japanese industry and the possibility whieh these plans
might offer for the reopening of a Philippines iron mine
1n which he is interested to furnish iron ore to Japan.
As you know, it is United States polioy that Japan
should regain a self-supporting status at the earliest
possible time. To this end the soth Congress on the
6511
recommendation of the President appropriated funds for the
express purpose of assisting the rehabilitation of Japanese
inaustry. Arrangements for the purohase of raw materials
by Japan with these and other funds, however, are made by
General MacArthur's Headquarters and the Jepanese Govern-
ment direotly with the governments and business enterprises
of supplying countries, and are not made in Washington.
In some Far Eastern countrles trade with Japan is permitted
or enoouraged, but in others, among them the Philippines,
obstaoles are still being placed in the way of this trade
by the governments of those countries. This attitude generally
results from the inability of the population to understand
that the revival of peaceful industrial aotivity in Japan
C
is ensential for the Japanese people's peaceful reorientation,
S
and that suoh revival is in no sense inoonsistent with this
Government's and our Allies' determination that Japan shall
not again be permitted to menace the peace of the world.
My recommendation, therefore, would be that you suggest
to Mr. Ingersoll that he or some other representative of
the Philippine Iron Mines ascertain from the Philippine
Government what its attitude would be on a proposal that
the company
The Honorable
Jack/Zy Anderson,
9
0
se
1

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.89)
of the Keadquartere ef the Supreme Semmander fer the
view en the prepesal. All iafermatien available here
ore te Japan on reasonable terms.
having been made fer the files of the Departmeat.
to you and Nr. Ingersell.
Sineerely yours,
Charles E. Beklen
Gounseler
Enelesure:
Trom Mr. Dmgersell,
April 7, 1948
ne
(Cleared with
pm
RAY
Mr. Bowman)
FEHWIB
NA:RAFearey/pm
PI
OE
7/6/48
JUL 8348
c/cc
Icom
Lus

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.94)
RAYMOND C. BENNER. PH. D.
NIAGARA FALLS. N. Y.
August 2, 1948
AUG 12 1948
ys
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Dr.Willis Armstrong
Division of Commercial Policy
Room 590, O1d State Bldg.
Washington, D.C.
Dear Sir:
I have been asked by a number of Japanese firms to act as their technical
representative in the U.S. for the purpose of obtaining assistance for
60/8-248
them in modernizing their plants.The only thing that stands in the way
is the difficultyof placing dollars to my credit in the United States for
ρ
the various expenses involved. Could you tell me how this may be done?
I thank you.
Sincerely,
RCBenner
R.C.Benner
RCB/mb
cc/file
SEP 10 1948
FILED
CSA
Ite to Benner
DIVISION OF OCCUPIED AR AS
ECONOMIC AFEAIRS
ADG171948
DIVISION OF COMME
82014
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
8
AUG 1 0 19481
aug
894.
4作
Mm
2588

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.95)
AUG 301946
In reply refer to
OE
My dear Br. Benner:
Reference is made to your letter of Angust 2, 1948, in which
you state that a mumber of Japanese firms have ssked you to aet
as their technical representative in the United States for the
894.60/8-248
purpose of obtaining assistance for them in modermising their
plants. You inquire as to how dollars my be placed to your eredis
in the United States to cover the various expenses involved.
The foreign exchange regulations presently in effeet in Japam
preclude the allocation of dollars or other foreign ourremcies
available to Japan for purposes other than to meet the eost of
Japan's essential import requirements or the procuremest of ser-
vices deemed contributory to the eoonomic rehabilitation of Japas.
These regulations are at present administered by the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers, Tokyo, Japan.
It is possible that the servioes whiek you have beem esked
by your Japanese correspondents to render may be of sush a nature
as to warrant the allocation of dollars for their proouremeat.
It is suggested, therefore, that you my wish to request your
Japanese correspondents to commonicate with General Headquarters,
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, Takyo, Japan, with respeet
thereto. It is further suggested that you may also wish to
commumicate directly with General Headquarters in Tokye, subsitting
in detail an outline of the servioss in question together with as
CSA
Commander in determiming the contribution whioh suoh services would
make toward the eoonomic rehabilitation of Japan and whether the
allocation of dollars therefor would be warranted under the
circumstances.
Sincerely yours,
Roswell H. W
DUG 25 1948 PM
anting Chioth
u 3
Division of Ocoupied Are
Economie Affairs
Raymond C. Benner, Ph.D.
460 College Ávemue,
per
OFD:OE:RBParke:ms
8/20/48
ó HA.
2588

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.96)
D0
ACTION C
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
TELEGRAM
A
9
TE
Action: PB
Control 8402
Info:
P
Rec 'd August 25, 1948
0
6:09 a.m.
SSM
OLA
CIA
BA
wo
Office of
FROM: Shanghai
DCL
ITP
TO:
Secretary of State
1819
OFD
POS
Deartm nt of State
NOx
1885, August 25
PA
DCR
Following Central News Agency item datelined August 24,
"Japan's industrial productive capacity which at the surrender
time was down to 10 per cent of the 1934-1936 1evel now is
about nalf of the level according to the magazine DIAMOND.
894.60/8-2548
The number of existing factories and workers is said to
have reached an all peace time high-about 1l0,Oo0 plants
and 3,600,000 workers. However, after an extensive survey
the authoritative economic magazine reached a paradoxical
concluslon that production has not increased in proportation
as the number of factories and workers arose. Such a
paradoxica! situation was attributed to sagging operational
efficiency, shortage of proper equipment and funds, and
increased amount of red tape resulting from controlled
economy.
P 
Another interes t.ing point made by the magazine is the postwar
tendency towards an even distribution of factories. The
industrial center is said shifted from Osaka to Tokyo.
The significant drop in the number of factories is noticeable
in localities which were regarded as industrial areas in
the prewar time, and plants have mushroomed in places
where few existed before.
The magazine said eupecially noteworthy is the rate of increase
of such secondary production plants as the lumber and
woodwork industry and the printing and bookbinding industry.
The number of factrries almost doubled since the end of
the war. The breakdown of last years plants was as follows:
S
metal 10,167
SEP 10 1948
FLD
PLAIN
H
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.98)
PLAIN
-2-#1885, August 25, from Shanghai
metal 10,167, machinery implements 23,747, chemioal 8,127,
gas and electr, 9?5, ceramics 5,680, spinning 15,699,
lumber and wood work 22,412, foodstuffs 13,363, printing
and bookbinding 2314, and others 6454.
The total in industrial production last year was estimated
at about 300 billion yen.
The magazine further pointed cut factories with'less than
50 emp oyees constitute almost 89 per cent of the total
number of Factories. But lars scale factories which
cccupy oniy about ! per cent of the total number of plants
employ about 63 per cent of the entire factory hands in
Sent Tokyo 168, repeated Department 1885.
CABCT
SW:PAE
PLAIN

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.95)
0
SEP- 9 1948
September 7, 1948
Excellency:
DuiR
Upon instructions from my Government,
I have the honor to refer to the Interim Repara-
tions Removals Program adopted by the Far East-
ern Commission in 1946 in the matter of advance
reparations from Japan and the interim directive
894.60/9-748
of the United States Government dated April
parations and reparations allocations procedures
for industrial facilities in Japan.
Your Excellency will recall in this con-
081 15 1948
FLED
nection that the Far Eastern Conmission, in the
program referred to, provides that Japan's indus-
trial facilities and equipment considered basic to
CS/A
her war economy are declared available for repa-
rations claims, although the power to designate
which of them should be made available is left to
EP  SATE
46
NCH
the Supreme
9
894.60/9
His Excellency
EED
A
MB
3
8
Gedfge C. Marshall
DCR ITP-Unit
0
FACILITI
MK
1948 SEP
Secretary of Statel.
.ev.
Cat.

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers. Like-
wise it should be recalled that the United States
Government, realizing the urgent need of recipient
countries including the Philippines for said in-
dustrial facilities and equipment, issued the afore-
said interim directive providing, among other things,
for the inmediate delivery of such assets falling
within categories of Japanese facilities and equip-
ment vhich have been properly declared as available
for reparations transfers by the Far Eastern Commission
and desinated for removal by the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers.
To date the Philippines has been allocated
and has received machine tools, laboratory and e-
lectrical equipment, which were taken from among
the pooled items in the Army and Navy arsenals in
Japan. I am pleased to inform Your Excellency
that the greater part of the tools now form the
basis for the reactivation of Government shops and
vocational schools while the rest is being distri-
buted to
333

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
buted to private parties who will utilize them
for manufacturing and repair jobs.
To accelerate the rehabilitation of Phi-
lippine economy, my Government has inaugurated an
industrialization program, for the orderly and
speedy effectuation of which the facilities and e-
quipment coming under all the categories declared
by the Far Eastern Commission as available for re-
parations transfers are urgently needed. While on
the one hand my Government realizes the attendant
and onerous difficulties incident to their imme-
diate delivery, it is hoped on the other hand that
Your Excellency's Government will not fail to un-
derstand that these facilities and equipment are
needed for the success of the said program.
My Government would therefore deeply ap-
preciate it if some feasible way could be consi-
dered by Your Excellency's Government to make pos-
sible the inmediate removal and transfer to the Phi-
lippines of
333

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.99)
-4 -
lippines of such of Japan's industrial facilities
and equipment falling within all categories de-
clared as available for reparations transfers un-
der the Interim Reparations Removals Program and
made available for immediate delivery pursuant to
the interim directive of the United States Govern-
ment.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances
of my most distinguished consideratiop.

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.94)
OCT111948
Excelleney:
I have the henor to acknowledge the reseipt of
894.60/9-748
your note of September 7, 194s requesting this Gevers-
ment's aid in expediting the further transfer of
industrial reparations facilities from Japan to the
Republio of the Philippines.
It 1s most gratifying to note that the reparatiens
facilities thes far received by the Philippines from
Japan have been of assistanee in the rehabilitatien of
Philippine economy.
This Government is giving the most careful eon-
CS/V
sideration to the points raised in your mete and a reply
will be provided as soon as the views of this Govermment
894.60/9.748
have been formulated.
Acsept, Exeellenoy, the renewed assurances ef my
n
highest consideration.
894.60/9-748
For the Aeting Searetary of State:
1
His Excellency
CHARLES E. SALTZMAN
Joaquin M. Elizalde,
CR
Ambassador of the Philippines.
Cheared by he. suilh
PAZ)
OFD:Pasaxe111s:mem 9-30-48
PI

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.85)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COP
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Wron
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
R
INCOMING TELEGRAM
N
斗
Action: OFD
Sertember 14, 1948
Info
DEPARTMENI UF
20 p.m.
E
O
F
PROM:
Shanghai
TOOE
REPARTMENT RE ATATE
L
LHNATIONAL RESOURGES DIVISION
OL:
TO:
secpetary of psate
No athanne
anny tHers
GIA
SEP151948
DCL
NO
212, Sepsember 14.
ITP
JEPARIMENI Of STATÉ
AAN
Pen lovmre entral ews apener eatelined Pokyo
IAD
sopbsaber l  t e wew ara lreeral loserpretation of the
IOP
o deeec ravon la crferee b seap Decencentra-
894
tou evver Bea  todey luol stes  rurt ber relaxation
 bee coarove: stel ses por erted to break up Japan's
preuntraued cusincsees and allows Seap a sreat latitude
60
in ths applteatlon of the la
Tun upenese time wrtcn wose prevaeusty designated for
6
socoweontrataer wll be wut pwatceally re moved from the
seaignatlon unies shey anes bs consvete evidence that
1448
shey "restract sosr etataer or snpats opp ortunity for
o ongee
bus soe poepedert l"
PARA
8
l o cer rcs mr sordute1 more shan 20
Jel
or busd peaa an aay fueld autonat teslly fell under
Ycome
9
preensesaen tew.
he seoin of evidence that
8
conptitien or otner firms was not
ey
2
d then.
p
4
SE
teterprtevson te rulee cue the ortginal pro-
srat sne poesessso of poeorelete l lines of business
co
idered en exeer
busapese coneeneration.
Phe Boooneenvsaolon Rey sew Boerd wutee bud the first
neevs ng with the Japar ese Helsis Ce pen Liguidation
Coms esion toder slso vta vlatee the sub mseson of
velur tary veorgar zation slar for epproval fer the
reorsenlsation os the Finm. The mew ruling ss tantamount
  feet to prerent aaauatsfiable deconeentratiou.
S
E
hately
P
2
N
2
6
869
H
H
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
16-52918-1
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.95)
PLAIN
-2- 2012, September 14, from Shanghai
Lately some firms volluntarily applied for deconcentration
with the purposes of mass discharge of workers of finaneial
retrenclment. While latitude le provided in the application
of the law the SCAp Deconcentration Review Board emphasized
"there 1s no change in the basic voliey of the deconcentration
of Japan".
Sent Tokyo 179, repeated Dept E0j2.
CABOT
CSB:MET
PLAT

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.93)
Form De-802
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
N
9
Action:
OFD
yew
Control 5244
Info:
DIWS OF OCCUPIED AR S
P
Rec'd September416, 1948
0
9:46 a.m.
SAM
SEP 17 1948
OFFICE OE
FE
FINANCIAL & DEYELOPNENT POIO
OLA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CIA
FROM.
Shanpha
DCL
ITP
TO.
Secretary ox State
DEPANTIED E STATE
AAN
2040
Sepenver 16
POS
NO
PA
DCR
Following Centr N vs gency ivem datelined Tokyo
September
"The new and lbera interpretavion offered by SCAP
of econonlo deconce coretien law witl shertly bring
arout a whe ssa e r mova! of 275 big Japanese industrial.
farns from desimct on or decpnstruetion. deccncn lialecu
Reliable soutceu to d Ce tral News today that it is
894.
genera y be ioveo po ti on wil? be broken up completely.
in st int aceor sne with the original spirit of the
Law, afser the  ar soven-man review beard offered its
new interpretat.on
These souvces saso  hoo e wile be onay some l0 firms
ordered to underac  mco rate reorganizatien in
the mong pun umos  ne w whish wae originm lly
designeo vo t  nsis for vapan's democratic
ec onenic reuenst uet son sr ough the breaxang up of
excessive econetc oncentrations.
SCAP s new inter cre: ation of the law, which was
lowed Japanese firms to
announced lass Satur day
f business and cenduct business
usess nen-re aved nes
they de noy
restrict
any exters ae og as
petition ? tther tps
Though SCAP
SEP
PHAIN
2
2
1948
canda corrected
H
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.99)
PLAIN
-2-#2940, September 16, from Shangha1
Though SCAP emphasized the basic policy of the law 1s
not changed, the new interpretation runs counter to
the original provisions of the law, which defined that
possession of non-related business in an excessive
concentration.
The original provisions of the law stipulated that any
firms conducting more than 20 percent of business in any
field should automatically fall under the deconcentration
law.
Interviewed by Central News tris morning Todao Sasayama,
chairman of the Hoiding Company Liquidation Commission,
revealed rn order wili shortly be issued to remove
Practical?y all firms from the designation list.
He added the Nihon Soda and three other firms, which had
already been crdered to break up, will also be retroectively
removed from the designation.
He revealed that: application of the law may be confirned to
some 10 firms including the Nihatsu and Dentsu which would
undergo moderate reorganizaticn.
Sasayama claimed strict application of the law in the present
stage which 1s "abcut (*) and may unstabalize Japanese
industry and hinder Japanese industrial recovery.
He said anti-monopoly law alone is good enough to prevent
the resurgence of the Japanese Taibatsu. Asked whether
a new Zaibatsu wi!l be created in Japan if economic con-
centration 1s allowed to a certain degree Sasayama said
new "capitalists" will be dorn eventually.
He added they will be different from the old Zaibatsu
who dominated business with Feudalistic influence.
Sasaymn said
PLAIN

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.89)
PLAIN
-3-#2940, Septemt er 6. from Shangrai
Sasayman seid orimay there were 325 firms designated
fer deconcentrati
Firy of them were removed by a
ScAP direcrive o tue wonthe ego.
Big Zaivateu tub a sne Mitsui Miteubishi and
Sumitono hac a da hee dlaso ved er in the progresa
of olssotutron u se u saloatsu dissc lution law" and
thererore are mo fot e oy the deeoncentration law.
He added, heweve umImy vhicn were previcusly
designnsed ror cer cer slon are firms clcsely affiliated
with the oid Ze tsu
CABOT
NOrE
verlfication upon request.
MS:PAE
P.A.N

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.97)
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
15
INCOMING TELEGRAM
Control 8747
Action:
EUR
Info:
Rec'd Sept. 25, 1948
P
2:25 p.m.
0
SAM
FE
UNA
OLI
FROM
Moscos
CIA
AAN
TO
: Secretary of State
POS
PA
NO
: 2125, September 25
DCR
Sowiet press September 25 prominently displays one-
column "Panyushkin's statement a REc setting forth
Soviet position on question level industrial develop-
894.60/9-2548
ment Japan."
Sent Depertment 2125, Department pass Tokyo 32.
KOHLER
LMS:KC
NOTE :
Relayed to Tokyo 9/25/48 2:47 p.m. (NEF)
DEPARTHENT
Filt
MESSAGE CENE
EUROFEAN AFFAIRS
OFFICE OF
6
Ail l40
STATE
FILND
PLAIN
29 1948
DNR
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.97)
ACTION
DIVISION OF
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
10
INCONING TELEGRAM
RX
A
Action; OFD
Info:
OFFICE OF FINANCIAL AND
Control 9335
0
DEVELOPMENT POLICY
FE
Rec'd September 27, 1948
DCL
10:13 p.m.
ITP
DCR
DPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVIS'N OF OCCUPIED AR
FROM:
Mani.la
TO:
Secretary of State
SEP 28 1948
NO:
1875, September 28
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Office c" President released September 22 summary
indicating utilization of reparations machine toole.
,000 un ts received to date from Japan, comprising
894.60/9-2848
896.60
hilippine share of 30 percent advance allocation.
have beon allocated to government agencies (including
740.60119PW.
Tahila  a1lroad and National Development Company) amx
public (*) institutions. Over 200 being allocated to
private machine shops and private schools. Remaining
?,Oco u:its earmarked for National Machinery Corporation.
Furleus of Namcor 1s engineer island shops recently
activated with 150 of these units and now engaged in
epairing government machinery and equipment.
LOCKETT
Verifled on request.
MH: GB
 OF STATE
1948
OCT 5 1948
FILED
PLAIN
H
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.97)
TOP SECRET
The Under Secretary
Sopt. 29, 1948
Through
: s/s
O - Charles E. Saltaman
Comments on Attached Additional Recommendations of Army Department
Rogarding NSC 13/1.
The attached statement makes explicit the great oxtent to which
the Army Department amendments to the section on teparations differs
from the Department of State's proposal. The Army proposes that
flexibility in the bilateral negotiations be obtained by splitting
the difference between the State Department's proposed levels for
initiating negotiations anu the Army Department's original proposals.
The general reasons why we feel negotiations should not be commonoed
with levels higher than those proposed by State have been set out
in my earlier memorandum. There are, however, specific reasons
making tnis proposal particularly unacceptable in regard to the cate
gory of prinary war industries:
894.60/9-248
(1) There is an existing FC paper agreed to by the U.S.,
stipulating that all priuary war facilities must be removed as
reparations or destroyed. A violation of this FEC policy would
be objectionable on legal grounds;
(2) Many F countries have expressed deep concern regarding
the importance of insurin: that these facilities are removed or
destroyed. To approach the. on another basis would arouse iumediate
antagonism to our entire proposal.
TOP SECRET
A/EKH
Attachment
Army Additional
tecommendations
FE
:PClaxton:br
2948
TOP SECRE
3168

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.95)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DIVISION OF
NA
O2T191948
FROM/LONDIN 2612
DATED
RECDV
SECRET
Oct
15, 1948 1:52 p.m.
3
Seorebury of State,
A
ACLION EUR
Washington
INFO
LC/R
A-1373
894.60/10-748
Reforenoe Soviet statemont FEC September 23 re
FF
revival Japanese industry subject only to security
D.
considerations, Dening of FONoFF stated Soviets had
CTA
apparently learned, poasibly through speech by Powles
at FEC meeting, of UK attitude arrived at after talks
UNLA
at Canberra conference of last May. Soviets have copied
USUN
UK policy re Japanese industry and are using it in
GADEL
attempt to appear to Japanese that USSR is reasoneble
and that US is holding Japan down while USSR wishes to
revive Japanese economy, Also may be attempt to oreate
friction between US and UK. Fact that Panyushkin
called press conference after FEC meeting at whioh he
outlined Soviet stand indicates clearly that move was
for propaganda purposes.
Dening also said that much depends upon sort of
control in post-treaty period envisaged by Soviet pro-
posal. Cannot have Japan swamped by horde of Soviet
spies. Also referred to phrase in Soviet statement
"lighten dependence of the national economy on external
factors which were alien to her interests." This ob-
viously referred to dependence upon US. But US also
wishes to lighten burden of Japanese dependence. Strange
that Soviets should try to help US in this matter.
liust be nigger in woodpile.
HOLMES
NOV 23 1948
ERDiokover/wg
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.
SECRET

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.95)
AC/R
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: October 28, 1948
SUBJECT:
Deconcentration Program in Japan
PARTICIPANTS: O - Mr. Saltzman
Dr. Reid, Department of the Army
Mr. Claxton
Mr. Pollard, Department of the Army
Mr. Rudlin
OFD - Mr. Barnett
FE - Mr. Butterworth
IR - Mr. Vernon
NA - Mr. Allison
Files
 Dooument Met To Returned to
Mr. Fearey
COPIES TO:
O - Mr. Saltzman
FE - Mr. Butterworth
OFD - Mr. Barbett
Mr. Claxton
NA - Mr. Allison
IR - Mr. Verhon
Mr. Rudlin
Ár. Fearey
?- e
894,60/10-
1-1408
Dr. Reid, of Mr. Draper's office, has recently spent six weeks in Japan
and met with the above officers of the Department to discuss the deconcentra-
tion program.
He began by summarizing recent developments in the program and thought
it was possible that, of the 13l firms remaining on the designated list,
perhaps some 20 to 40 might be dealt with as excessive concentrations. fter
N
spending four months surveying the situation and becoming acqueinted with the 
problems, the Board recently handed down a decision on the Nippon Soda case
which reversed the order of the HCIC to deconcentrate this firm. This decisio
apparently left the Japanese uncertain as to our basic policy. Mr. Saltman
enquired what the basis was for the reversal of the Commission's findings.
Did it turn on all or some of the four new principles for implementation of
the law recently laid down by the Board?
Mr. Butterworth enquired how long the Deconcentration Review Board pro-
posed to remain in Japan and whether it would stay until whatever number of
firms are decided upon have been in effect broken up and until approval has
been given to specific plans for reorganization. Dr. Reid replied that it
was the opinion of the Anti-Trust and Cartel Divisions of SCAP that the Board
could, if necessary, pass upon reorganization cases at the rate of one a week.
The Board's owm present thinking is that it may stay at least until the winter.
C
Mr! Butterworth pointed out that it may be necessary to present the FEC
S
witha statement of our attitude, including a review of the work of the Decon-
1
centration Review Board. The question therefore arises whether the Board will
have completed its work in time for its findings to be used in such a state-
ment. The question was also raised at this point, and at subsequent stages in
16
the discussion

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
the discussion as to what form these findings will take. If they are not to
have the appearance of a rule of men rather than of laws, then it would be
desirable to have a complete record of their decisions and the reasons therefore.
Dr. Reid was not sure what the Board's plans were in this respect but folt
there was nothing in the size of its clerical staff to indicate great concern
with record keeping. However, the Holding Company Liquidation Commission and
the Anti-Trust and Cartel Divislon presumably have their owm files which will
carry cases up to the point of review by the Board.
Dr. Reid agreed with ir. Vernon that the Board's activities in reviewing
deconcentration plans are a small part of the general activity coming under
the heading of the deconcentration program, there being many other matters,
such as sales of securities, anti-trust and.fair trade activities and the
issuance of ordinances under existing legislation. Howeven, the significant
date will be that when the HCIC completes its work which should be some time
in 1949 after which the main continuing activity will be that of the Fair
Trade Commission operating under the Anti-Trust and Monopoly Law.
Mr. Butterworth raised the question which we have so far been unsuccessful
in posing to SCAP namely, what are the terms of reference of the Deconcentra-
tion Review Board? What authority does it have to change or reinterpret
previous laws or rules on the subject? If the Board's function is to make
recommendations to General MacArthur, does this mean that SCAP in approving,
for example, the Nippon Soda Case approves the four principles for the implemen-
tation of the law which the Board laid down for the guidance of HCLC. Dr. Reid
thought this was so, and agreed with r. Butterworth that it was, therefore,
important to know jist what the terms of reference were, especially since the
HCIc regarded the new principles as a considerable departure from those under
which it had been previously operating and which had been conveyed to it by
the Anti-Trust and Cartel Division.
Dr. Reid stated that the Board has not so far discussed changes in the
deconcentration law itself, but has discussed the possibility of changing the
Anti-Trust Law. The Board is currently of the opinion that such provisions
as that requiring a corporation to divest itself of interests in other cor-
porations might be changed. Apparently General MacArthur was not aware that
the Japanese Anti-Trust Law goes beyond US law and has recently suggested
that the Japanese law be made to conform. The Board is of the opinion also
that Japanese banks should not be considered as excessive concentrations, and
that whatever changes need to be made can be accomplished through forth coming
financial legislation is aimed primarily at other aspects of the financial
system.
Mr. Saltzman raised the question of what should be done about sales by
the Government of vested Zaibatsu securities. Dr. Reid stated that working
levels in SCAP believe that the way is now clear to organize stock exchanges
but the Supreme Commander is not convinced. Foreign investment may absorb
some stocks. Dr. Reid had heard the suggestion that purgees should turn over
to the Government their holdings in the corporations from which they have
been purged, in order to widen their disassociation from their former companies.
This

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.98)
-3
This would increase the Government's stock-disposal problems. This suges
a new and strange one to those present at the meeting. It was never amy
the recommendations of the Edward's Mission or subsequent papers on the subjed
Mr. Barnett felt it would be important for purposes of making a statement in
the FEC regarding our attitude toward FEC-230, to have more information on the
activities and findings of the HCIC and the interpretations or re-interpretatiom
made by the Board both of Japanese legislation and of the HCIC's findings. 
information could be presented to FEC as an indication of the extent to which
contration had already been accomplished in Japan, the reaction from the mo would
not be unfavorable. Mr. Butterworth referred to the question of whether the Board
intends to stay within the law or to recommend changes therein. Mr. Vernon and
Mr. Barnett felt that the only law which might be changed would be the Anti-Trast
Law, inasmuch as the Review Board has the authority to recommend changes in the
deconcentration law and inasmuch as the law is ganeral in its terms and interpreta-
tion is necessary in any specific case.
Dr. Ried saw no reason why Mr. Draper should not again be asked to request
SCAP (a) to inform us when the Deconcentration Review Board believes its work will
be finished, (b) to inform us what its terms of reference are, and (c) that the
Board maintain adequate records of a kind which will enable us to report on and
defend its actions before the FEC and enable businessmen, both here and in Japan,
to regard the activities of the Board as based on clear and ascertainable principles.
O:WARudlandamc

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
November 8, 1948
894.60/11-848
0 - Huliok
OFD - Mr. Smith
IR - Mr. Vernon
NA - Mir. Fearey
Subject: Deconcentration Review Board
About two weeks ago Dr. Reid, of lir. Draper's office, told
us he saw no reason why SCAP should not be asked for the terms of
reference of the Deconcentration Review Board, for reports on the
Board's activities and the principles on which those activities
were based, and for some indication as to when the Board expected
to complete its work. We are now informed that shortly after the
meeting with Dr. Reid, r. Draper sent a cable to SCAP regarding
the Board. As far as is known, this cable was not cleared or seen
by anyone in the State Department. A request is being made for
the text of this cable in order that we may know precisely what
CSAK
information was requested. In the meantime, a reply has been
received from SCAP and a copy is attached. It does not give the
Board's terms of reference or any indication as to when it expects
to complete its business; nor does it indicate what considerations
led the Board to make the decisions in the various cases listed.
W. A. Rudlin 
Enclosure
Cableofrom SCAP
17.
OWARudlin:mwc
RESTRICIED

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.91)
0 Fil
November 4, 1948
TO1
Mr. Saltsman
ür. wilds
r. Rudlin
Subjest: Report of Deconeentretion Review Beard
in Japan.
FW 894.60
Dr. Reed of ür. Draper's affiee fust oalled me to eey thet
fellowing the dissussion in your offise whish Dr. Reed assended
he requssted Mr. Draper to send a cable to General Meskrther in
eable to General Naearthur, asking for a repert on the astivisies
of the Beard to date and that he make eartain that the Beard keep
was net willing to make an inquiny as to how leng is weald take
the Board to complete its work for fear that this would reault im
giving the impression that we were anxious for the Beard to hastem
11-
its wark!
Gr. leed saye that a four-page eable repert bes just beem
848
reseived regarding the firet four monthe of eetivity of the Deees
to us by tomerrew.
I had net known that kir. raper was sanding e eable of this
kind. If we have not ressived a oopy of it I believe we should
aak for it to make sure that it has made all the peints that wo
feal should be made to General faeArthur now.
P. P. Claxton, Jr.
O:PPClaxtomibr
3627

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.96)
seankze
894.60
TO: 0 - Mr. Saltzman
DATE:1/12/48
FROM : O - P. P. Claxton
suBject: Cable from Mr. Draper to General MacArthur regarding the Deconcentration
Review Board.
11-848
As I believe I ha informed you,following the meeting in your
office attended by Dr. Reed at which the Deconcentration Review Boa
was discussed, Dr. Reed, pursuant to his understanding that the Sta
Department wanted certain information concerning the terms of refer
and activities of the Deconcentration Review Board, proposed a cabl
from Draper to MacArthur. Dr. Reed informs me that Draper sent only
CSAK
portion of that cable and as a result the Review Board sent a brief
summary of its activities which has been made available to us by Army.
As you will recall, State drafted a letter to Army, asking that a
cable be sent to obtain all of the information we desired. We suspended
action on this matter pending an effort to get a copy of the cable which
Draper had sent MacArthur. Mr. Hulick has endeavored to get a copy from
Col. Lynch and I have tried to get a copy from Major Miller and Dr. Reed,
the latter two telling me that the matter is very hush, hush, that no
copies were made of the outgoing cable and that they could not provide
me with a copy. I have asked them to inquire of Mr. Draper if he will
or will not make a copy available and infor me. Since he was out of town
Dr. Reed inquired of Col. Lincoln who said a copy could not be made
available. I think there is nothing more I can do on this and recommend
that you take the matter up with Mr. Draper.
Since this is not the first occasion on which Army has treated this
and other matters as subject for private discussion with SCAP, it might
be desirable to take the opportunity to have a complete understanding
that matters of this kind are of interest to the Government and not
just the Army. If you need citations of examples I am sure we can
accumulate a number.
20.9
cc--Mr. Hulick
19
OFPClaxton:br

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.85)
DEPARTMENT O. TATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
12N~
M. Hulich -
T
M
A ym ill sce
I coullnit get thei fim
9
arhed les to apwocky
8
Arosar.

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.88)
Rile
SCORCI
Noo. 26, 1948
MMR POR: The Noasreble Charlee Raayer
Secretary of Commeres
Subjest: Disposition of U. 3. Shere of Japamese Reparatiems
mot to offer Japanese reperatioms equipment to the U. B. publie.
Between November 1946, and Mareh 1947, consultations were hed
ing the disposition of the U. B. share. The Depertmsst of Commesee
indieeted that in view of the probable categories and esnditiem ef
tions, end of the relatively small emoumt of interest being shemm by
private industry in German indastrial facilities, it wes uawise to
institute è prosedure in the Depertasnt of Commeree seeh es exists fur
Germaxy fer publisising available fesilities to the U. S. pablie ss
fecilities to the publie weuld be greater than any reteurm abat esule be
expested threugh sale to private coneerns.
With this beskground, it was resosmended to Under Searetery
wight be otherwise available for dispesitien to U. S. private isterest.
68
seertries elaiming Japenese reperatiens. This ree
by le. Claytem on Apr11 4, 1947, and has remained the besis of State
Department polley in this matter.
2
A true copy of
the signed orig-
4146

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.89)
SECRE
distribatien ef a mabotantial part of the share shich the Be .
mas mede sese meaths age, and pressst iadications are that with the
eeatemplated redistribution of a pertion of the U. S. share ssbatamtdal
in putting ferth a new and definitive preposel for the reselstiem ef
antire reparations question. This prepesal will be seespted emly wété
grest relustanse by mexy of the interested soumtries, besense the amem
of equipeent realised under it is censiderably less then previesely
envisaged. The prepesed redistributien of a pertiem of the U. S. share
is believed to be a mesessary eloment if the total U. S. pesitiem is
to have substantial intermatiomal asceptamos.
Charles B. Sattenem
Assistant' Searetary
ut
EP
O:NHemmendinger/ikb
11/24/48
Smuth

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
November 23, 1948
O - Mr. Saltzman
Subject: Your request for information
on clearance with Dept. of
Commerce regarding proposal to
give U. S. percentage points to
other FEC countries receiving
reparations.
This is an interim report. A full
memorandum on this matter has been prepared
in E but has not yet cleared through Nitse's
office. I have been informed orally that the
·matter was fully discussed by our economics
people with the appropriate officers of the
Department of Commerce, including Mr. Blaisdell.
These Commerce officers have a very clear
recollection of the discussions and will brief
Mr. Sawyer. I am told that Mr. Blaisdell feels
even more strongly now than he did previously
that our policy is the correct one.
P. P. Claxton
cc: Mr. Hulick

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.96)
QHEIRAN
Saltyman
DATE: Nevember 22, 1968
TO
FROM :  - R. B. Smith
sUBjECT: Disposition of U.S. Share of Japanese Reparationg.
The attached memorandum and excerpts from correspondence with:the
Department of Commerce summarises discussions between the Department
of State and the Department of Commerce regarding disposition of U.S.
share of Japanese reparations. I understand that Mr. Sawyer raised
the question of this clearance with peu and Mr. Saltsman at a recent
meeting on Japanese shipping and ship building.
1948 NOV 23 AM 11 37
FOR OCCUPIED AREAS
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
ENT OF STATE
AFD:EP:RBSmith:mck
11/22/48
4146

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
TO
: Mr. Nitze - E.
DATE:
11/19/48
FROM : R. B. Bmith - P ROE
suject: Disposition of U.S. Share of Japanese Reparations
Between November 1946 and March 1947 the Department of
State consulted with the staff of Mr. Blaiadell, partioularly
Mr. Tollin, regarding the disposition of the United States
share of Japanese reparations. The Department of State queried
the Department of Commerce on the expected desire of private
American industrial interests for Japanese industrial equipment
which might become available as reparations and as to the
desirability of establishing in the Department of Commeroe a
procedure for publicizing available industrial facilities to
the general public for subsequent olaim. The Department of
State was advised by the Department of Commerce that, in view
of the probable categories and condition of Japanese industrial
facilities which it was expected might become available as
reparations, and further, in view of the relatively mall amount
of interest being shown by private industries in German indus-
trial facilities, it was unwise to consider instituting a
similar procedure for Japanese reparations. It was the opinion
of the Department of Commerce that the cost of administering
and publicizing Japanese industrial facilities to the public
would be greater than any return that could be expected through
sale to private concerns.
On the basis of this advice, the Department of State
recommended to Mr. Clayton that no claims for Japanese repara-
tions from industrial facilities should be considered from
private American sources. Mr. Clayton approved this recommen-
dation as indicated on the attached memorandum.
18855
E- Mr. Thorp
Assistant Secretary
for Economio Affairs
NOV19 1948
Attachments:
Department of State
Exxopoxmox Memo, Martin to Thorp, Feb. 26, 1947.
Excerpt from letter, Blaisdell to Thorp, June 21, 1947.
CONFIDENTIAL
268.
RB.OFD
OFD:EP:RBSmith:mom
11/19/48
Martin
4146

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.98)
STANBARD FORM D
CONFIDENTIAL
TO
: A-T - Mr. Thorp
DAT:February 26, 1947
From : ESP - Mr. Martin, Acting Director
SUBJECT:
Waiver of U.S. Share in German and Japanese Industrial
Assets Available as Reparations.
The attached study requested by Mr. Clayton is submitted
for your approval. If you approve, it is our intention to disouss
the recommendations, particularly those in regard to Japan,
with other affected government agencies. We hope to get from
the Department of Commerce some expression of the possible reaction
by American businessmen to the proposal that no Japanese indus-
trial assets be made available for disposition to private U.S.
nationals.
The following recommendations are made:
German Industrial Assets. Recommended that no action be
taken at this time formally to reduce or renounce the U.S. quota
for Category B. assets. Recommended that a formal statement of
present U.S. policy be prepared and issued indicating that the
U.S. will not claim Category B assets except in specific categories.
Japanese Industrial Assets. Recommended that the U.S.
waiver its claim to Japanese industrial assets otherwise available
for disposition to U.S. private nationals (other than an agreed
minimum for government agencies having specific needs) provided
control is excerised over the disposition of the released claims
and provided that the U.S. makes no advance waiver of olaim
prior to securing agreement to acceptance of the peroentage
distribution among claimants of Japanese industrial reparations
assets, as recommended by the U.S.
Approval on the above recommendations has been obtained
from GA, JK, JA, ESP and A-H.
(Initialed by W.L. Clayton)
OK - W.L.C.
4/4/47
JK:RHFisher:el
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.98)
TO
: 0 - Mr. Scherer
DATB: Nov 23, 1948
sUBJECT: Discrepancy Regarding ACA plant No. 1602
Reference is made regarding paragraph 5 of telegram no. 4938 of
November 19, 1948 from London in which it is stated that the UK is
interested in ACA plant no. 1602. In this connection you might wish
to point out to ECA that ACA plants nos. 1602 and 1488 are parts of
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
arc furnaches, and plant no. l602 is a part plant comprising onaro
of the ECA Reparations List.
24 AM 10 09
ENT OF STATE
OFD:EP:WRGilchrist:hw
CONTIDENTIAL
0-465

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.98)
FORM NO. 4
SEORET
TO : NA - Mr. All1son
DATE: August 6, 1948
suBJECT: Comment on Attached Draft Cable
You will note that SCAP proposes in his wire (Part I, para 0)
that if two or more nations offer to purchase an item which is
of divisible nature (e.g. a lot of unidentified ivory), sale
should be made on the basis of the sohedule of reparations shares
proposed by the US last November. EP considers, correctly I think,
that this would require amendment of the statement in the reeent
FEC polioy decislon on restitution that the seven nations should
be permitted to purchase "up to but not exceeding their recognized
national percentage shares." EP then suggests that conriieting
offers be referred to the Restitution Advisory Committee :"with
expectation that discussion will result in agreement on percentage
priority to be applied only to specific property under consideration.
While this would probably be a better procedure than attempting
to revise the FEC decision on restitution, it seems subject to
two possible disadvantages: (1) nations might be unwilling to
agree on the respective shares because of fear by each that if
it accepted a share smaller than that which it has been attempting
to get in the FEC on reparations it might prejudioe its position
on the shares issue in the FEC; and (2) 1t might turn out to be
a time consuming method.
As you know FE, at least, hopes, through governmental dis-
cusslons and/or an interim directive, to arrive at a solution of
the reparations shares 1ssue and other aspects of the reparations
problem during the coming month. In view of that fact it would
seem wisest to advise SCAP to go shead and dispose of the types
of cases desoribed in paragraphs "A" and "B" of his wire in the
manner he proposes, but in view of the hoped for dtsousston on deciwn
the reparations shares issue to defer allocation of the class
of items desoribed in his paragraph "C". If EP should not agree
that a solution of the shares issue 1s as near as we hope, we
might defer answering SCAP until we know better, possibly during
the coming week.
Please detach FEC-Oll/5l from the file before sending it on,
as it is from our files.
SECRET
NA:RAFearey/pm
1344

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.98)
oopw
February 12, 1948
To:
A-S - Mr. Saltsman
From:
A-S - Mr. Wasner
Subject: German Reparation and Dismantling.
In briefing the Secretary for the Cabinet meeting of Friday
February 13, it is believed that you should request him to make
a final effort to obtain Cabinet decision generally in acoordanse
with the recommendations which he submitted to the Cabinet on
January 15 (see copy annexed).
The first recommendation of the list should be developed
at the Cabinet meeting to obtain Cabinet approval for the Seare-
tary to make an offort (through the State Department represente-
tives who wil! attend the forthcoming London meeting) to obtaim
British and French agreement to the suspension of uneompensated
deliveries to the Soviet Union; and that failing such agresment
the entire matter be reviewed again with the Cabinet and Con-
gressional leaders. In the interim the situation would remein
as at present, viz. no new allocations are being made and the only
deliveries which are being made to the USSR (and Poland) are the
remnants of the three plants delivery of which is almost completed.
Also attached is a memorandum, copies Bfnwhich have been
delivered to the resident and the other/members (along with a
copy of the Secretary's letter to Senator Vandenberg of February
4, and the memorandum which it enclosed). The purpose of this
memorandum is to make clear the gravity of unilateral action on
the part of the US and the danger of action on our part which would
place upon the British and French the onus for failure to achieve
tripartite agreement on deliveries.

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.94)
3amy 29, 1948
U - . Lovett
Subject: Reperations and Dimmentling Pregrem.
Referring to our conversation of yesterdey, we heve hed
requirements of Senator Vandenberg and the Poreigs Relatiems
Corxittee for statements or information with regard to the
reparations and dismantling progrem in Germany. Mr. wileem
has stated that the record covering the presentatiem of the
Administration's ease on mp has besn sent to the priaters,
and that be believes Senator Vandenberg has no intentiem of
requesting any further spesifie statemente or informatien
from us is sonnestion with this phase of the bearings. M.
wileox frrther stated that if we feel it desirekle to make
a further statement on the subject of reparatiene or die-
mantling, there will no doubt be an oppertumity for ue to do
so during the course of exsoutive sessions in the near frture.
Moreover, the general subject of reparations and dismeatling
is certain to receive a considerable smount of attentice
during the coming debete on the floer of the Senate, end i8
would therefore be desirable for us to present to Seneter
Vandenberg any further meterial whiah we might wish to make
available to him and whioh he and other favorably disposed
Senators mightt make use of to buttress their arguments.
In the light of the foregoing, Ism having prepared a
memorandum which would be suitable for use by any State Depart-
ment witaess who may be ealled upon to testiry during the
exssutive sessions. I am alse heving prepared a memorandem
whieh would be suitable for use by Senator Fandenberg or others
in the coming Senate debate. Within the next two days this
latter memorandum will be eompleted, and I shall mubmit to
you a letter of transmittal to Senator Vandenberg for the
Secretary's signature. In this letter of transmittal,
referenee will be made to the faet that coples of the State-
Army replies to the questieme in the Cese Resolutios have
boo
4678

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.88)
drmem of the Semate Appe
Cherles E. Saltemem
A-S:FGWisner:asm
1/29/48

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
A-S
THE UNDER SECRETARY
JAN 27 1948
MR. SALTZMAN
January
A-S - Mr. Saltzman
The following excerpt from the Acting Secretary's
notes on the Cabinet meeting on Friday, January 23,
is quoted for your information:
I referred again to the matter of dismantling
of the plants for reparations, which was not com-
pleted at the previous meeting. Secretary Royall
and I recommended the approval of the general
outline for procedure covered in the memorandum
of January 15. Secretaries Harriman and Krug
opposed any dismantling whatsoever on grounds
that appeared to be almost identical with those
expressed in the Congressional questioning of
Secretary Royall and which contained numerous
inaccuracies in information. Secretary Royall
carried the brunt of the discussion, which was
thrown over to next week because of the shortage
of time. I emphasized particularly that the
matter should be taken up promptly with the
6
Senate Foreign Relations Committee and there
was general agreement that this should be done.
S/S:WJM&Williams:JGC
SECRET
48

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.85)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
AD
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
DIVISION OF
DCln
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
A noaition
DEC 2.1948
qile
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AIIGhAl
4569
Proms
o9coW
ae
Cece ber 15, 1948
1:25
December 15, 1948
100
894.60/12-1348
R
nevd:
Dec. 24, 1948 10:03a.m
3
2
ACT: ON
D6/
astLon
1237, cd ecenber 18 1048.
7
EUR
DO/.
TOP
e rtcs prees t. lecember 1l, l94o carried a auarter
celuam asht a Tass despatch roviewin, the dabatet in
CIA
the ur astor coisslca derin the pust two months cone
A/N
derni. tue bc iut proposal on te level or Japanese i custry
P
anr porti e cveras rote apminst this proposal at the
POS
Co isslun:s meeti.t, un lesuuber 9. Ihe despatch then
quoted Soviot  bastador Panyuahkin's epeech in wnich he
stated thet world opinion weuld know hoi. to evaluate proporly
to positict takon by the powers voting tgàinst tho Soviet
propesal, v ich was ude in the i.terests of all peace-
lovlnn pooples as was i.. accordenee Itn the nutional
894.60
recuircments oi Jupun.
S ITH
112-1348
NOV 21 1951
HSt essel:mcs
FILED
To vopartiment in hectograph.
Copy to Tokyo
MBM
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must retarH DC/R central fles with notation of action taken.

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.90)
Di/R
STRICTED
January 26, 1949
OANDUP TH UNITD STAT , FA LASTERN COISSION
ubject: tatemant regerding Level of sconomic Life
In Japan : olicy Toward Japanese Industry,
0-242 eries.
894.60/1-2649
rou are authorizeu t ke a statalent on this subject
substantiall. as follovs at the naxt meeting of the Far Sastern
Commission:
In compliance with the request of the united
Ain dom representative that I convey to my Government
the expression of axiety thai the views of the United
tates coverrment should be placed before the Commie
sion in a reasonably short time, 1 have called to the
attention of my lovernment the statement of the Uk
representative as set forth in the verbatim minutes of
the 137 meeting of the F1 and the fact that a mmber
of representatives of other member governments associated
the selves with the views he expressed.
CS/E
y over ment has asked me to state that the viewe of
these members of the Cosmission have been noted by my
Government, und that this matter continues to receive its
most urgent attention. I am confident that my Govarnment's
views ill be pr sented at the earliest possible momant,
but it may be sale additional time pefore thds can be done.
894.6
charles . Saltzman
d
Assistant Secretary
C
TRICTE 116
ig
AH
0 Ppclaston dr
6

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.90)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS 1
TELEGRAPH BRANÇH
I TIMATIONAL RESDURGES DIVISION
代
MAR 7 - 1949
945
1949 MAR 7DEPNT STATE
UNCLASSIFTED
FROM LOLDON
DATh
LL.RCH 2.1949
RCD March 5, 1949 2:35
3
secretury of stmae
A
pm
ACTION:DC/L
weshin ton
Datecr Mailing: unkmom
INFO
401
DC,'R
0
EUR
Subject:
Japenese Sompetition
FE
U/FAA
FOR DE
,ULTRRY
XTP
OFD
There are uoted below a uostion und vritten
OLI
894.60/
ansver in the  ouse ex  orsmous as voporved in hunsard
CKA
of rebruory 22, 1949.
P
FOS
" Lr. wrroll (Conscrv tive) asked the Presi-
AAN
dent of the boo:e of Tr ce if ne vill now nake a
state ent on tne  oxt. o dpunese competition
and the stepe beimr teken to  cet it.
3
"  J d ares ( rlie entury Jeoretury, Board
of Trede) e cre uily ure of the seriousness of
Japanese competition s a lon -term problem, and, as
y right hon riend s stated in unswer to recent
cuestions on this sutject, the whole matter is at
present being exe ined uns consult..tion witn in-
dustries has be un. The thve t ie potential ruther
than cotuel since overall Jepanese production is
still only bout aw lr pre-war and exports are only
just over a yuartei. s shal take svery possible
step, by represert sions s tuo occupation xuthor-
itics und otnervviee, te preveut a recurrenco of
the sort of unfeir ractlce feniliur before the wur,
und vhorever possille e shull support meusures to
raise te standarc f living or the Jupunese workers
and thus uvoid lov rice competitien bused on choup
labux."
BIVISION OF CONNERGIAL ROLIGY
DOUGL.S
MAR 
FPDartlett/aw
MAR 2 1 1949
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
UNCL.OSIFID
co:
Tokyo
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned-to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.98)
Fil DYR
omp/Aps/mLind
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
-12-6-57
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: March 23, 1949
SUBJECT:
Japanese Prices for Textile Machinery: Patents in Japan
PARTICIPANTS: Mr.
Mason, Whitin Machine Works
CP: Mr. McCornick
COPIES TO:
CP: Mr. Gay
ITP: Miss Brewster
ITP: Mr. Martin
894.60/3-2349
In Mr. Gay's absence, Mr. McCornick spoke to Mr. Mason on
March 21. Mr. Mason had two problems which he wished to discuss,
first upon this occasion and later, perhaps in conjunction with
other industry members, with Mr. Martin.
1. He was disturbed about the manner in which in pre-war
days the Japanese obtained copyrighted machinery and copied it
without paying royalties.
2. He had heard that the Japanese are at present making
textile machinery of equal quality to the American, but for about
40% less. Further, he had a specific complaint in that he had
heard that Mr. Frank Pickelle of the Trade and Commerce Division
of SCAP was heading a mission to South America, where he would
presumably give U.S. Government sponsorship to the sale of cheap
Japanese textile machinery.
Mr. McCornick informed him that within recent months, SCAP
had issued a directive on the subject of patents, and that now
foreigners were permitted to register patents in Japan, and the
CS/H
presumption was that the occupation authorities would be in a
position to see that the Japanese would enforce a strict observance
of the laws.
As far as
E
3.234g
X 070754

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.97)
2
As far as the textile machinery prices were concerned,
Mr. McCornick had no specific price information, but he recited
SCAP's policy against underselling in world markets, and of
placing "floor prices" below which Japanese private dealers
were not permitted to sell. It was recalled that a representative
of the industry had gone to Japan to make textile machinery price
schedules known to SCAP, and Mr. McCornick felt that the results
of that visit would soon become evident in SCap's pricing of
competitive machinery. Concerning Mr. Pickelle's accompanying
the trade mission to South America, Mr. McCornick expressed
surprise that the industry resented the presence of an American.
If it was felt that the Japanese had a tendency to undersell,
it would be far safer to have a responsible member of SCaP on
hand to see that SCAP's pricing policies were strictly observed.
It was a misconception to feel that Pickelle's presence would
give U.S. Government sponsorship to "underselling". Mr. Mason
did not give the impression that he would press for removal of
Mr. Pickelle from the mission. He did not mention his source,
but he stated that he had been indirectly assured by Mr. Pickelle
that no textile machinery would be offered for sale on the
mission. Mr. McCornick said he could not understand such an
assurance unless no machinery was available, and that he did not
know what commodities SCaP would have to sell to South America.
Mr. Mason presented Mr. McCornick with a letter from the
president of his firm (attached) and stated that representatives
of the Draper Corporation mentioned therein would soon be in
Washington, and perhaps they might at that time have a talk
with Mr. Martin.
2y
ye
ITP:CP:WSMcCornick:lhj
March 23, 1949

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.98)
DIVISION OF
ACTION C
UNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
EUROFEAN AFFAIRS
INCOMING TELEGRAM
MESSAGE CENTER-
MAY2 8-39 AM 1949
7
PLAIN
Action: EUR
Info:
CondBaRTDaB8TF STATE
E
P
Rec'd Apr11 30, 1949
SAM
9:02 a.m.
FE
OLI
CIA
FROM: MOSCoW
POS
PA
TO:
Secretary of State
DCR
NO:
1103, Apr11 30.
Soviet press Apri1 3o publishes Tass Peiping report
attributed Sinhua accusing US perfecting plans for
rehabilitation Japanese war industry. Says Hoffman
mission last December presented plan whereby Japanese
steel production 1955 to be much greater than wartime
894.60/4-3049
production. Not waiting FEC decision MacArthur uni-
lateraliy demanded dismissal Reparations Committee
Japan.
Sent Department 1103, repeated Tokyo 22.
KOHLER
SW:MEK
H
PLAIN
MAY 1
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL LES
WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
5
52918-1

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.95)
WCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS.AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
2
2739
BA
ACTION: DC/L
AIRGRAN
INPO
DO/R
FROM:
USFOLAD, Tokyo
FE
E
Date of
XTP
UNCLASSIFTED
Mailing:
May 10, 1949
OPD
T
Date Ree d:
TRC
May 13, 1949 9:38 a.m.
OLI
GIA
Secretary of State,
AAN
Nashington.
A-108, May 6, 1949.
894.60/5-649
Folloring iten entitled "Industrial Index a Naw High for
Harch" issued lay 5, l949, by ublie Infommation Office, General
Headquarters, Far East Cermend, Tokye:
Japan's industriel predue don index has reached
an a 1-high of 68.2 percent of 1930-24 industrial lev-
els, allowed by the Far Eastera Commission, on the basis
of prelininary index reports for liarch released today by
SCAP's Research and Prograns Division.
The figure, which covers coal mining, textile manu-
fact ring, and activities in such key industries as met-
als, chemicale, building materials, and foodstuffs, is
up 4.1 percent over February, the previous high.
The index, after electric generation and manufactured
gas are also included, is 75.4 percent, up 5.2 percent
from Februxry.
Highlighting the Eccnomic and Scientific Section re-
port is the 96.6 percent achieved in the various wanu-
factaring industries, itself up 5.4 percent from the
previous peak last Deceaber.
MAY 1 7 1949
Under the manuiacturing classification, gains
FILET
H
and new peaks were recorded in ferrous metals, now
at 93.9 percent, up 5.2 percent; non-ferrous metals,
118 9 percent, up to 10.6 percent, chomicals, 100.5
pereent, up 12 4 pereent; bnilding materials, 137.5 per-
cent, up 1.3 percent, Focdstuffs, 68.5 percent, up 2.1
cereant: other industries. 76.9 pereent, up 3.3. per-
PERMANENT RECORD COYTs yS DERPe   f  ken.
9percent
Minina

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo's A-108,
May 6, 1949.
-2
of 123.6 percent. March coal proluction of 3,652,300
metrie tons, tho most mined in one month sinee the
Occupation, was responsible for the increase. New
postwar records for individual coal production, now
7.9 metric tons per worker and 13.9 metric tone per
underground worker, al so were est blished in March.
In textilea, a record outp: f raw silk, 14,604
bel s in Merch as compared with  2,984 bales in Febru-
ary, and vayon fabries ware Larg y responsible for
inc: casing the te tile index.
The metal groups in Mareh a aled the levels of
the 1990-34 sverege. Notable wer: the record produe-
tion of 106,664 metric tons of pi: 1ron and 221,590
mo ic hons of crude steel. Outpat of crude steel dur
ing March was 148 percent of the oal for the month.
The index for the cherical g oup also matched the
193) 34 level, and increases wore cecorded for soda ash,
oul hurie ecid, mibber gocds and ayon.
The one di sharmonious note ; as in the machinery
group, wh ch for the firet time in 16 nonthe failed to
att in a protuction increase. St up droys in output of
bic cles snd vailvay rolling stoct brought about the
decline.
HUSTON
500.1
aHBoehringer:re
UNCLASSIFTED

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENTIAL
DcR
file
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
0CT 11 19499
Memorandum of Conversafion
DATE: May 6, 1949
SUBJECT:
Policy Regarding Japanese Industry
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. H. A. Graves, Counselor, British Embassy
Mr. John M. Allison, FE
COPIES TO:
FE
NA
FEC - General McCoy
894.60/5-649
1-1408
While calling on me on another matter Mr. Graves brought
up the long-standing subject of the level of economic life
in Japan and left with me the attached oral communication
from the British Government regarding its concern at the lack
of a statement in the Far Eastern Commission of the United
States Government's policy on the level of Japanese industry.
Mr. Graves was informed that the United States Government
appreciated the deep concern of the other members of the Far
Eastern Commission with the problem of the future of Japanese
inäustry and the hope was expressed that within a short time
it would be possible for this Government to acquaint the
British Government and other friendly Governments represented
on the Far Eastern Commission with the considered viewpoint
of the United States Government on matters affecting Japanese
industry. It was again pointed out to Mr. Graves that in the
opinion of the United States Government the problem of level
of inaustry in Japan is closely connected with the reparations
problem and that the delay in reaching a final U.S. Government
position on this matter was due to the great complexities of
the reparations problem. Mr. Graves expressed the hope that
894.
when the U.S. Government was in a position to discuss this
problem either alone or in connection with reparations with
the other FEC Governments concerned, that the various Ambas-
sadors would be invited in person to discuss the matter.
s
205116
Mr. Graves
0
CONFIDENTIAL
∞S
6
thn
f

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
Mr. Graves was informed that while no final decision had
yet been made, either as to substance or procedure, it
was probable that because of the importance of the matter
it would be the Ambassadors themselves who would be invited
to come to the Department for the contemplated discussions.
FESMAllison:mls
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.96)
Hamanae to me.
bya.mame
Britich Embasry
Oral Copmunication
Policy regarding Japenese Industry
The Foreign Office desire the State Department to be
informed once again of the concern which they feel at the lack of
a statement in the Far Eastern Commission of the United States
Government's policy.
It will be recalled that the proposals contained in
FEC-242/32 have remained in the Commission for about a year,
during which time the United States delegation has been without
instructions in regard to them, and unable to participate in the
discussion thereof.
894.60/5-649
On 10th September, 1948, the United States representative
in the Commission, General McCoy, stated that he had been directed
by the United States Government to inform the Commission that the
paper on the Level of Economic Life in Japan had been receiving
most intensive consideration by the United States Government and
that the subject of the paper was a matter of basic importance to
the successful objectives of the occupation in Japan. General
J
McCoy stated also that the United States Government was nevertheless
not prepared at that time to state its view on FE0-232/32 or on the
C
2
but that the United States Government wished to inform its gollgues
6
on the Commission that it would endeavour to present its vies on
these matters as soon as possible.
205117
In view of the considerable lapse of time since the
statement referred to above, it is hoped that some progress can soon be
made. It is felt that to keep even those countries with which the
United States Government has the closest relations without information
8
about its intentions cannot but have an undesirable effect.
CS/H
6th May, 1949.
Mu

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.93)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCN
AIRGRAM
2601
FROM:
USPOLAD, Tokyo
Deto of
June 10, 1949.
UNCLASSIFIED
mailing:
Rec'd: June 15, 1949 10:45 a.m.
1
JTION: DC/L
CNFO
Secretsry of State,
C/R
Nachington.
LPP
A-141, Jun0 9, 1949.
CFE
894.60/6-949
LI
Roference made to thie Minsion's A-108, May 6, 1949, transmitting
JIA
copy of press release issued by the Public Informatior Offico, General
A∴N
Headquerters, Far Eatt Conmand, Tokye, regerding Jepancso industrial
production indexes for Merch 1949. Given herewith 1s copy of supplo-
mentery prsss release 1ssued June 5. l949, by the same offico and en-
titled "April Industrial Index 71.6, a Prewar High":
Industrial production in Japan for April was 7l.6 per-
cent of the 193c-34 level, a new postwar high. according to
preliminary figuros reportod today by the Resserch and Pro-
grems Division cf the Economic end Scientific section.
ConeE
It was an increaee of 2.8 points ovor the Merch pre-
liminary figure of 68.8 percont which later was revised to
71.3, both of which were new postwar highs: ESs officiale
pointed out thet final revision of the April indexes may
poseibly be higror also, following the March trend.
Catogories in which production during April excaeded
the 1930-34.mark included: Mining. 118.1 percent; coal
mining, 125.5; metals, 106.8; ferrous motals 105.6; non-
ferrous motals, 127; machinery, 110.7; chemicals, 109.3;
and building materials, 138.7.
The overall index of msnufacturing moved forward egain
JUN 20 1949
in April to another postwar record of 64.5, a gain or 1.?
FILED
points over March, with all majer manufecturing grcups end
industries, in ceneral, contributing to the riss.
In the texiile group alight increases in procuction
of cotton yern, wool yarn, wool fabrics, and rayon fabrica
were recorded. However, these were ofrset by declinus in
production of sw silk, apun vils yare and cotton ioor es.
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.86)
TO5YO A-14)
June 9. 1949.
2
The metal group continued is steaay edvence and
rescued 106.3 peccent f 1950-54 Javel, an incroesa of
1.3 poists over she provious ment. P iron production
ag in alvancod 4.3 poiits to l09.2. bmevor. pril pro.
duetlon of sueel ingot remeinod at sbout tho ceme level
 .
Refined loal durius spril saovod ar excoptionelly
bigh rete of proluetiol, sn incsuoco o 33.l points.
Output of refined zine was aleo vevy iavorabl.
Fewered by veilebility of mstars de. the mechinory
group moved forsarl agoin and ronched .0.? pescout of
the i930-54 leva., en nerease o c.7 pointe. Ineressa
in productton of railw y rolling ptocl ua most notablc.
The chemicel indu traes. in ner. recorded en
Incroase frem 103.s pereant in sech to 109.3 in April.
Very favorable showine in produutson ware mace in svlparie
acid, emnonium sulohote. caleiun cranao de, po per und royon.
Postwer record pr duction o' se,cs6 not:ie tons or
coment, rarlecting inoreaging ov m abal.ty of fuole.
beosted the Indesm of buildine me actole to l2e.7, up 1.5
pcinte ovor vereh.
The food, heverage and tobaece induetries loet some
grouné during er l2. vhe group scen dropped 3.l pcinto
to 65.4.
Mining acsivity in april dr pped 3.s points to 118.1
porcent of 193o-54 lavel, due to ceerensed outout in both
cou) end other mining. The coal dex Csclined fron l57.5
porcent in Varch to 125.5 in pri1 Output or 3. 261,000
metric tons of ccel during pril, however. wos 99.4 pereems
of the plarned geel for the eame period.
5131
UNCIASEJI LED

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.95)
TOP SECRET
TO
: GA - Mr. Lewis
DATE: June 14,/
PROM : NA - Mr. MosOley M
dd
sUBJECT: Japanese Level-of-Industry
Will you please see that the attention of the appro-
priate people in GA is called to the material in the
attached documents which set forth the Department's views
with respect to Japanese level-of-industry and alsowith
respect to Japanese shipping and shipbuilding.
Files
Central
Docuwont Must By Returned To
894.60/6-1449
00.
894.60/6
TOP SECRET FILE
NOV24 1952
124541
FILED
TOP SECRET
FE:NA:HWMoseley:db
392

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.97)
SEGBNT
FE - Mr. Batterwerth
Jame 13, 1940
NA - Nr. Bishop
Japanese Level-of-Industry
Attached at Tab A 1s a proposed letter frem the
Asting Seeretary to Seeretary Johnson requesting the
National Military Establishment's views on the questiom
of whether eertain industries not armament industries
but nevertheless of major value for war, notably the
airoraft manufacturing and shipping and ahipbailding
Industries, should be restricted in Japan for seeurity
reasons during the post-occupation period. This infor-
mation is for use in formulating the new U.S. level-
of-industry proposals for the ocoupation period premised
the FEC countries in General MoCoy's statement of Nay 12
on Japanese reparations and level-of-industry, so that
these proposals may accord with United States long-range
thinking on the question. The letter has been eleared
by KP, ÖFD, TRC and E.
Attached at T b B is a copy of a letter from you
to Mr. West setting forth this Department's views on
the Conclusions and Recommendation of the initial staff
study on Japanese shipping and shipbuilding forwarded
with his letter to you of May 4. Mr. West's letter is
attached, with your interim reply of May 19, at Tab C.
The reply at Tab B has also been cleared with EP, OrD,
TRC end E. NA is holding the original of the reply
until the letter from the Acting Secretary to Beeretary
Johnson, copy of which is to be enelosed with the letter
to Mr. kest, has gone out, when the original will be
sent forward with enclosure for your signature.
We have relieá upon E and TRC to consider the relation-
ship of this matter to similar problems in Europe, and
have therefore not felt it necessary at this stage to
clear with GA or EUR. We shall, however, furnish copies to
GA so that they may be kept informed.
It 1s recommended that you initial the memorandum
and letter at Tab A and return the remainder of the file
to NA for resubmission after the letter to Secretary
Johnson has been sent.
SECRIT
FE:NA: AFearey:db

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.94)
The Lettag Seeretary
Jn 13, 2000
Through :
- Nr. Batterwerth
Japanese Level of Industry
Attashed for your sigmature is a letter to
Seeretary Johasen requesting the Matienal Military
Establishment's vievs on the questien of whether cersaln
industries not armament industries but mevertheless of
major value fer war, notably the aireraft mamafaeturing
and shipping and shipbuilding industries, sheuld be
restricted in Japan for sesurity reaseas during the
pest-escupation period. The infermation is required
fer use in formulating new U.S. level-ef-industry pre-
posals for the occupation perled promised the FEc Seas-
tries in Cemeral MoCey's statemeat of Nay 12 en Japemese
repar tions and level-of-industry, se that these pre-
posals may accord with United States long-range think-
ing on the question.
TOP SECRET
FE:NA:RAFearey:db
EP
OFD
ITP

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.83)
La reply refor to
A
POr P00N2T
éanrr.eoretary:
fou will reonll tat paregreh 20 of c 13/3.
"ecomsendetloae it esceat to ..olicy Towrd
Jeprn", provlces tict "tnere shoulc be no limitation
on Js sn's procuction for escetul vuroses or on
levele ef Jppaceer  roduotiv setscity in Lnduetries
cevotec to perceful urccees". Thie polioy position
wre unnounoed to the ur wstern onalss lon in the
at ment on lesneze re r tions n level of indeatry
ro y enerl coy ony l nc relesed to the
rees. it wee furtar nsuaced in the Isst peragratn
ui the statement thxt:
"The ov roment lane eeortly to eut
alt te thr  : tor ita conlderrtlon proposele
for the rreelerlen or amencment of exlsting
snd pendin re:r tlons ne 'level-of
inuuetry' colles  ere v. ss to crine Fac
tolloies on there mettere, ahoule the prorossle
be mroved y tre oiaslon, lnto conformity
vit the eeitlon w len I srve set sorth.
ureunnt te t ie r theerartment of tate
is currently Toreul tine net ro ornle on the Jrpenese
level-ot-lncuatry ruestler ror su mieslon to the rsc.
ile the sbowe-cuoted rovislen fror ,c 13/3 consti-
tutes, olenr attement of crner l polley, it never
t:-lees becomee necess ry to ceternlne whether certain
Inoeatrlee, not "ra=ment inoustrles but of msjor velue
in wnr, ehoulo be rontricted in Jaren for seourlty
rensons
Thororable
couisJornon
cretary of
ie。

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.78)
TOP_SECBET
一
sonnvelion, xnd there sy be others.
"rerapn lo or  13/3 provides that "Jmpen's
ln ustri l alscrccment wrould b llmited to the pre-
litior or the snnufreture or wespons of wr and olvll
Ly ny of the ce: enes Ao urtmente on the queetion of
restrlction of the u neas merahunt shipplng and ship
bullcine industrlez vas esnt ined in stc 23e/66,
"Ieger tlone esov ie or erehant hirclne From Japen",
sutmitted by the erertment or the evy in aroh, lgs.
The ivy epertwent stntes In t is  suer, gcntrery to
aition whio it reviusl tahen th t it con
"lcered thut the retention of Il morohint ahipa mow
v llatle to  roerle af tonnege or ereed
nould not br inlmlex? to the srourtty interests or the
ir  oth
hepertont
sid nat, mowever, reccmxent chenee in the siee mnd
strec llelt tlons an the enastructien of new stt e for
docestic wae in J u, nd on totl permltted ahipbuild-
ia s elty in Ja n, le it t reviouely aporoved
in 23a/a3,  prer tions movaln of lm matrial
et ltie ne eren t hirinr nprll 7
. the t l"uton of  n
 ustrlalar ote t rlstinlimitetions
(e loulated on the D sls of the  it rim aparatlons
emovel velalon on tre nt ulluiar nuetrs of may .
I  ) on totx? mermitter e" melty in npn to bulld.
re sir or mxiotaln steel cht st cver I rose tone
ll lree on eto er , 1 hor l n ceellon
Iialtine the elze or ed ol mere sl a  lol
i un sry own or b llu during the oee  stion, or lts
c selty to ouilo shis mhove lven lee or xroed.
It would bu aorroclut d if you vo ls movlee me
hther the tionnl ilitry ste lsneent conslders
i li ut of . prourity reculrmente nd our overall
str tele Irnalme for Jecan, thet restrletloas mould
o im osed in the oet-coon stton p-rlou on ony non-
"rmonent industrie in Jarn.  artloul rly, enould
restriotlene be is osed on the slruraft manursoturing
Induatry,

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.87)
TOPSEOR
3-
indestay, or on the sire amd speed of individual mere
slnat ships senstructed by Japan fer domestle wee, er
fer ezport, or on the tetal volume of merekamt shi ps
above » designeted mlze bullt or ewned by Japan. If
it i: consldered that restrietions will be regmlred,
I would s preoi to le rning what in the vlew of the
atloael xilitary stablishment the restrietlems, and
corresrondind oapmcity or other llmitmtlens, should
or. ur  rocoenls to the pir, whloh would heve effeet,
1f mdorted, naly durlns the rerlod of Allled seempa-
tinn, will be formulated in light of your reply, 0
th t they will nocor sith Unitnd "teter long-rang
trinking en this sueetlon.
inserly yours.
TRC
E
:: earey:db
OPE
6/10/49

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.86)
In roply rofer to
A
jeer ot:
eference la mace to your letter of xey 4 emeles-
ina an initi-l stofr study croperec y the opartmemt
of the aray on Jupenene ehlprine na enipbullalmg. amd
to my laterim reply of  ay l9. The  onertmemt of State
bes now oompleteu gonslde: atlon of the eteff atmdy end
offers Its vlexa on the ncluelens enc Fegnmpandation
thereln ss followe (the : ar gra nuebere refer to the
correepondind eargrathe in the etucy):
Lareurapb Cä--The tepartment or  tste fully mupports
the rrineiple tht vapen should b ermitted to rovive
Ite merensnt merine er s normsl and lmportant fe»ture
of the Jopen+ss seonomy.
rgr R- C-Pie, "eparatlonn emovale of
Incuatrial Fsellities ne erenant hirplng From
wuren", oubmittec to the F se s . . polley pro-
or 1 on vr1l 9, 1947, beceme Commlesion property
wit, its submlselen aat o nnst be withdrswn by unl-
Interel declslon or the "nited trten. The .. position
on tls and sutsecuent pa ora on the subjeot of moparn-
tlone from Jansn ge merohant shipping has long beem
reserved, however, and in the ststement reed by Jemeral
ooy to the Fr on sy ls the Unlted txten annomeed
1ts op esition to further industriel reparatlons ef may
kind Irom Jntua.
You
r.cbertst.
:eruty to Amaletant seeretary
of the rmy,
epartment of the rmy.
BACRAT

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.93)
-2
You vill reeall that in the coseleding sestemee
intention shortly to sabelt te the FEc propesale fer
the reselsslon or emeadmeat of exlstin  mnd peading
PEC reparatloas end level-of-lndastry polley papers
so as to brin FC policies en these mattere late
sonformity with the new U.S. position that there sheald
be no further Inéwstrial reparatlons mad "no limitatien
on Japan's produetion for peaceful purreses or on levals
of Jursnese produotive ospeelty in indestries devoted
to peseeful purposee". In preparing drarts or these
proposals, whlch it is ho ad will be rady fer disoseesem
with the  epurtment of the rmy at an early date, the
Department hes found itselr without eny reeent or
authoritutive expression of opinlon by the "atlonal
Militery stabliahment as to what, if any, restrictloms
will be required for reneons or long-rsnge seeurity
on Japanese non-armament industries, pertieularly the
alrerart maaufacturing and shipping and sbipbuilding
lndustries. The cting  eeretury of  tate has aeeord-
Ingly written to the  seretary of  efemse requeating
the aational Xilitery  stsbliohment'a vlews on thie
question. Copy of the Actin, Seoretary's letter is
enolosed.
Paregraph 25--The epartmeat of tate greee that
 should continue to molloit controts for the m-
struetion of ahirs for export ms na lmportamt souree
of forelgn exchange. It cennot be definisely ststed,
however, tht modirlostion of our stand on this point
may not be nesevaary if rentrietion or termisation of
this program le wigorously pressed by J.. mhipning
and ahlpbulldin, inter ats and by other metions. tmere
1s also the question of whether, if it is deeided im
:lght of the National Military stablimhmemt's reply
to the Aatin Seeretary's letter thst slze aad speed
restrietions on Je  nean merehant sni s are neeesssry
for seeurity rruecns, these restrictlons should net alee
be ap lied to the con truotlon of shipe fer export.
Earagrach 20--It ls sgreed that ship constrmesios
for domestle kecount should be seeelersted, with due
oonsideration for the eompeting requlrements of other
Jaraneee

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.86)
一3-
Japanese inuustries for seuree materials ama ferel
exchange rescurces. uhlle there is at presemt me yãe
or .. direstive reatricting the mise or speed of
ships w lon sC: may authorize the Japanse to belld for
demectie use, it le understood thxt Cas has neverthe-
lese s plied ce: tin restriotions en his ewm mmtherisy.
It ls belleved thnt  should not be reqmested 
atandcn these restrletlens *t laaet uatil lt has beem
deelded wit in täis overnment whethor restrietlon of
Ja anese merehont shipping snd enirtullding will be
necessary for security ressons. Imilsrly, it ls
dou ted whetrer enould be avised to supore Bogle
lrtion eneourcin Intestment y iaraneze entrepronoure
In the oonstrustion of merer nt sni:n until U. . polieles
have bean forther clrifled.
arara 2?--ho e rtment of t te le of course
ln rull sympathy witn snd aur orte t urrose of the
rerteent of the  rzy lo henlevr ceonowies la the
cost of oocu atlon oreratlons, nd to provide an sdded
souree of rovenue for Js on. "ovever, ln view of the
soatlment In the Contrees with respeet to etarterlng
of.. owned veseele for foreign rls oyerstlon, and
the etrens o sitlon of the .. enlrping indmatry and
w ritlme I bor to see e coliey, the  epartment belleves
thet it wouln tr extreeely unwlee to prorose at snls
tisn the ellmiaetlon of the restrl tlve provislome of
tutlle aw li3, w len pronibite the esle er ehsrter
to forelgn inter ets of .. orned, war-built vessels.
so tnnt suon ve eele chelc be e rtered te Jena.
If the elimlnstlon of the rrstrictive provielome
of utllc aw  3 a 1loble to the ssle aad cherter
of .. owned vesrels ts foreign operators or gevern-
sents were sought, tee uestlon of forelgn onartere
with all or its lm licstione, to which the Comgrees,
the ahi vlng laoduetry, and warltime labor have beem
strongly op osed since th  aeng 1n l94e of the ship
eles ot, woul e oranes aln. It lll be rroalled
thet a cropossl to remove the r mtrlotlons es euplied
to eraany ne almoet un nlmounly rejested by ongrees
* yesr ueo, anc th-t Congrees bse snoun iteslf most
unsyepnthetje to similar vro osale by
18

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.89)
O
-4-
Japan, a seasideratien of majer coneern to the Depart-
moas vould urise out of she element ef dsserimimatlen
against maritive mations whe fonghs wish ss is the was
agaiast Japas. The Lepartmeat we ld be compelled se
sion with the sonduet of foreign relations with ether
countries. From this polnt of viow, it would be essfi-
sult to justiry enartering of United States Govermmomt-
ewmed merehsat vessels to Japan, while denying similar
feellities to n tions whien fomghs on our slde agaimst
Japan. This diseriminetion weuld be the mere peimted
In view ef the faot that, in sceerdanee with the stats-
tory polley goveraing disposal of wer-built wessele,
Allled gevernments were required to purehese er to
return the merehant veasels made sveilable to them under
Lend Lesse suthority.
Earagraph 20--There is ut preeent no law er rogu-
lation prohibiting Jepanese shipe from calling at
Ualted ststes ports. There is some questien hewever,
whether smerlesn longshoremen would be willing to work
Jupanese veasele at the present sime. As long as the
law continmes to recuire that U.s. aid shipmonts te
Japan be earried in U.. vessele if svallable, is would
sees mere te our long-run disedvantage tham advemtage
to advise 3Car to permit Japunese shipe to take ever
the reletively small earriage trece from Japan te the
United states.
Paragranh R--The Depertment of tete will costiame
to arford the Supreme Commander all pessible diplematie
asslstmnee in Japenese shipping matters.
Paragrant 30--nlthough it le believed that the
tate and Aray Departments should remaln in elose tuch
an trie problem and wherever possible present an agreed
peint of view, the reeommendatlon thst a state-Army work-
ing group be formed to draft & pollay paper on Japamese
shipping and shipbullding for sabmission to the Matiomal
Seourity Councll would seem to ignore the eonsidereble
interest
SECHIT

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.92)
-8
Laterees of the Naritime Commisslea In the master,
and we ld bring the Departmsat ef the avy iate the
sie shipping and shipbsilding interests and maritime
laber es the sempetitive aspests ef this prebles, and
of the Navy en its seeurity sapests, will have to to
prosimently coasidered in arriving at a final U.S. peliey.
It ls believed that the Haritime Comslssion mne the
Mevy should partlolpate from the beginning im the prepare-
siom of the poliey paper. An alternative plan, shere-
fore, would be ror tate and Army to plaee the matter
befere the hipping Coordinating Coumlttee whieh was
set up to consider problems of thie tyre, on whieh the
State, Army, Navy, Commeree end Tressury Lepartments
and the Haritime Commlssion are ropresented at the sub-
Cablmet level, and whion has reeently been reeonsti-
tated us an sotively funetionlng and effeetive bedy.
The Cemsittee's normal precedure would be to set up m
 joa working grou on whieh all the member ageneles
would be represented.
I should like to emphaslze that the repartment ef
State fully appreclates the importance to Japamese
self-support of the reeonstruetien of ma adequate Japsaese
merehaat marine, and desiras to further thie ebjeete by
all practiemble means,pfortunately the problom's
importanee ls mstahed only by its oomplexity, aad the
grentent care, patlence and attentlon to sonflletims
points of vlew will be neceesery if the objeetive ls
to be attalned.
The Lepartment of the ray's vieye on the mugges-
tlon that the matter be referred to the shipping
Coordinating dommittee, and on the other points mdvameed
In thie letter, would be s preelated.
Sincerely yours,
alton Hatterworth
Direetor for Far Fueterm Affaire
ESCAT
TRC
FE:NA:RAFearey :db
EP
OFD
E

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.94)
SQHZIREEZJAN
July 13, 1949
In reply refer to
CFD
My dear Colonel Hendricks:
894.60/7-1349
At the 156th meeting of the FC on 2 Jume 1949,
the New Zealand representative requested the U.S.
Government to provide certain information relating
to primary mar faeilities and war supporting indus-
tries in Japan. In radio C 51214 (Cm IN 12904)
5 July 1949, SCAP mmde available to s a eompilation
of the requested information. Conourrenoe of the
Department of the Army is requested to submissien
of this information to the FEC, if possible at the
meeting to be held on 21 July 1949, in tabular form
similar to the Annex attached.
Sincerely yours,
Robert W. Barnett
Boonomie Adviser
Orfice of Financial and Development Poliey
2 Enclosures:
CS/A
1. Statement for U.S.
Member of FEC.
2. Annex (Tabulation).
141948
10
894.60/7-1349
11 
JUL 14 
Lt. Col. E. W. Hendricks,
Civil Affaira Division,
Departmant of the Army,
Room 2%-550, Pentagon Building.
SA
CONZIREHTIAL

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.75)
Lesampeay Table Prepesed to Reply to Nam Sealend Gesny)
As the 19th meeting of the Fe n 2 Jone 29se, the o Sentd
heresità to the Commiesiem in tabalar form.
FW894.6
GOHZIREIIIAL

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.92)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCN
28
Takeo
1536
M
ACTION:ITP
INFO:
DCR
FE
DCL
OLI
USPOLAD. ckyC.
CIA
894
AAN
UNCLASSIFIED
malling
Septenber 8, 2943
05
Rec'd:
60/8-3049
Fle
-49
Secretary of State,
CTUSEP 1 21949
Washington.
ENT OF STATE
A-214, August 30, 1949.
Following item roloased August 87, 1949, by Pulis on
Orfice, Ceneral Headquartere, Fer East Cosmand, Toyo:
NEW INDUSTRLAL INDEXIS DEVELOPKD
Now indezes of industrial production and inlastrial
activity have been developed by tho Boancale mnd Scisntific
Section, it was announccd today by K. D. Morrow or Wsl t,
chier of the Economic and Scientifio Seosion Researc 
SEP 19 1949
Programs Division.
FILED
The now inderes will be wsed by Occupat on authoratics
as more comprehencive and reliable measurss of inductril
production and activity and as guides to tho levol of o
cp
covery for Japan.
TFORNATION
Morrow also announced that boginning with issue Mo. 
the monthly publication Japanese Economic Statirtics 
publimhed in three sectione: Section I, Industrial Prod
tion, Section II, Foreign and Domastic Coraorcc, anc Sottson
III, Population and Labor. Plane also have been madeh
1ssuance in the near future of a fourth monthly publicti
to be titied Japanese Enonomic Indicators.
M
The new indexes, which will be publiched in the fim
section of Japanese Economio Statistics, utilizo the
1932-1936 as the base poriod rather than ho 1930-155
period previously used. The 1952-1s36 bass was selcst
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.
mTATSOTTTn

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.92)
Tokyo's A-214,
Angast 30, 1949.
- 2-
since, dus to devolopment of now industries in Japen il
the middle thirties, it is more reprecentativs of a fe:
of normal, undepressed business ccnditions. Orricials
the Rasearch and Prograns Division of ESs pointed out 
that becanse of the increase in population mince then a
level of prodaction ronghly egual to that in the 19s-1?
base period woulá provide for the present Japanose pepul-
tion a per capita level of goods, servicea, and epc
commodities epproximately equal to that which was e il
from 1930-1954, the period used by the Far Easterm Comu-
sion es an Allisd industrial target for Japen.
The new index of industrial prcânction is compcssd f
67 independent productien series insteać of 45 in ths cld
index. In additiom, snc etilitiee seriec, gen and eloct y
generation, have been added to the industrial productich
saries to create he industrial activity ndex. Finally, 
composite index has been built upan weiglts d'rived fra
value added by manuracture rather than aployment used in 
old index, thersby bringing the Japanese inden into 
the interuationslly accepted standarde cf indon couctraci.
The usw index of industrial production for Juao wss 
and the index of industrial astivity was 94. 2 (1952-19e ).
Imoreases over May wore 1.5 indax points for induatric 
duction and O.5 inder points for industrial ectivity 
tronde by important major (roups sro as follows:
Jen Fot Mar Apr May
(revisec)(
Industrial sctivity
85.7 84.6 94.7 95.5 93.7
Utilitics
167.4 164.4 180.8 171.4 176.2
171.5
Industriel Pro-
dustion
68.4
69.8 73.5 79.5 76.5
77.8
Mining
94.9
97.3 113.5 1.06.1 92.5
106.7
Manufecturing
65.5
66.7 72.4 76.5 74.5
76.5
Durable goode
98.0
98.2 104.9 100.9 100.8
2.9.2
Mon-durabln gocds
46.6
47.1 52.8 55 6. 53.9
04.5
UNCLASSIFYIO

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.86)
Tokyo s A-214,
August 30, 1949.
-3
Cae of the most eignlficant facts poves ed by she
industrlel production indsn is teet ustlstiro getrretlen.
mining, and the manurseturo ot duraele sccds ure coeel o
or greatee than in she 1932-1936 base perics. Th: at-
facture or von-durables, textilos, misccllanous choric n,
food, bevareges and tobaceo, and printing ero woll bslo
base perind lovele. Of the major industrial groupe sho oct
sigaificantly outsiled segment in the Japcsso ecenoy is
in textile manafecturing.
BEAID
500
CHBoohriagor:pf
JROLASSIPIRD

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.96)
AUG301S
In reply refer to
NA
RESTRICTED
Dear Bob:
You may recall a request by the New Zealand Repre-
sentative at the FEC meeting on June 2 for certain
information relating to "primary wer facilities" and "war
supporting industries" in Japan and removals under the
ndvance Tranafers Program. The request was forwarded at
our sug estion by the Department of the Army to SCAP for
894.60/8-3
yR
the basis of & reply, and on July 5 a telegram was received
from SCAP (C-5l2l4) containing the requested information.
The informetion, covered by a brief stetement for reading
by the U.S. Member, has been incorporated in an instrue-
tion to General MoCoy. Unless I hear from you that the
instruction, copy of which is enelosed, is unsatisfactory
140 0011 9FEAC
in any way, I propose to send it to General MoCoy in time
to permit circulation of the information at the Commission's
3049
first meeting following its recess, on September 8.
Sincerely yours,
John M. lison
Deputy Director for
as
Far Hastern Affairs
ap
Enclosure:
2K
AUG 30 1949
Copy of instruetion
to General McCoy.
Mr. Robert West,
Deputy to Assistant Seoretary
CS/H
of the Army.
Department of the Army.
RESTRICTED
FE:NA:RAFearey:db
8/29/49  A7

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.84)
R#
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
2H
Se/p
6 DIVISON OF
fee
United States Political Adviser
894.60/9-1649
NORTHEAST ASTAN AS
for Japan
SEP 2 71949
Tokyo, September 16, 1949.
RECD
Rest
SEPT 23
No.. 543
DEPARTWENT OF STATE
NMo ailsir requins.
ACTION
Ner
PE
UNCLASSIFIED
NFC
894.60/9-1649
FR
ITP
Subject.
Fureardirg Be crta n col cong Productsy Carbons,
COM
Zane woute and  pone vitrifiable Colorsy
Y2R
auct Fotty A
 d a  be ho or to forward as of
 d the Department ef Conmerce
posather
 ouy f  s a m  Apr 1 9. prepared by the Industry
Devist n E oent: d Sr entefe Sectton. General Headquerters,
Sc P. an ropiy  p fron e French Reparations and Ree-
titusm Deleatr     unfmat on on certain Japanese
iadustyree the ones cet om candunm covere the production of
oolors pre  arot and drosutfite formal-
debyde cr  ngslir)  uns fr elostris use (artiricial
srapuate slerr r  srte eteerode aluminum cathode.
ertifterel sraptit rod mst lrr caroon brust, stber carbon
bous ar rart r thar  ) piw whate and lithe
(r erem lna. ceramics, etc), and
pono.
fatty alrch.le.
Enclosure:
Copy of Meror andum of
Apr1l 36. 1249
Parchment mat to the Depar  ment
559..7
EGSeidenstiaker.Jreef
FAP
OCT 5-1949
FILED
UNCLASSIFIED
ACTION COPY

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.83)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 643
tated September 16, 1949 from the
United States Political Adviser for
Japan Tokyc, on the subject "For-
ward:ng Reports on Coloring Produsts,
UNCLASSIFTED
Carbons. Zine-white and Lithophone.
V::rifiable Colors. and Fatty
Ale. hols"
(COPE)
AF0 500
ADO/HSC/mn
400 516 A 40052/0
16 Apral 1949
MEMORANDU FOA
Ee he e" th Fre keparatrons and
SURTEEL.
rm ron abou Japanese Endustries
 FraDa ESS GHQ. Ne.
647-1
Inr mat o obeer Jupunese Industry,
 2 ) 1949
 SS 30AP No 843-17
   7 anry
1949
SSSCAPGH
48.20 .
 erut Jaanse Erdetry
 e 
 fw s of et . sabtted n response te in
qusries abcut Cagesesa  ndrutries. mede in references la and ib:
23
Ludusery or er tpane Eredueta
(1) che) cerssity figuses (pre war and present) are
sot averlebls sn the ftles of ( meral Headquarters,
Supreme Coomander for the Allied Powers, nor ere
194s prpeect lon t:gurss for countries other than
Japer
(a) Pre way Joponese capacities:
(e) Soitus Lydresulfite - five plants with total
capacrty or I 30o metric tons per year
(b) Hydrosulf:te formaldehyde (Rongalite) - three
plants with total capacity of 1. o0o metric
tons per year.
(3) Present
UNCLASSIFLD

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.85)
Enclosure Nc. 1
to Tokyo"s Despatch No 643,
September 16. 1949
-2-
(5) Present Jupanese capacity is as follows:
(a) Sedrun bydresuirite - five plants with
"otal capacity of  300 petric tons
per year
(0)
Ro gelite - t e plants wath total capacity
of poo meurie pone por year
(4) Jape ers  usticn in l949 was as follows:
(e) Sctr byires ite. S40 motrie tons.
(b)
cogelte d cetre tods
131
      be o aes pro
 f    sr reg agnts
CIF Japan
Ta STF
Unit Value
Jaran Vatue
3/20E
4 540 8
235.00
S
43
$265..00
 wr s fs
C Japan
Dotal orr
Uait Value
Jn Vala
yor
sirre USA
¥186 000
$550
Ereieca
1.100
$550
Rogele  2 72   1 480
$542
Industry or Carbons for Elect rical Use
(i) Comparat. ve capacities in metris tons:
Comecalty
Yearly Capacity
1939
1949
Artafrccal eraphits electrode
27,000
22,500
Natural grephite electrode
60,000
38,000
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.87)
Enclosure No. I
to Tokyo°s Despatch Nc 543
Septemter 16, 1949.
3
Yearly Capecity
Cummod:ty
1939
1949
Atuminum catheds
5.000
5,000
rret raph.te brush
300
570
Metslly: cerbca boush
400
600
Otber vart  bren
100
2,700
Are carben rod
250
2.750
Other carter pod
600
4,800
(2)
There w-e 25 alec-roie plasts an 1939 and 23 in
se49  cacbom troe prcaucers an l939 and 25 in
1949
aas s arber ped factories sin l939 as come
ered1940
Actuel producsion in 1949
w o hat of 939
(5)
Susben clertrcaes sre markedly anferier to pre
wer capmeeen lestrcses because of she poor
 Pa es
Qualrry ef carbon
-m reve greatly dostng the past
e wai voupares sutorebly wah that of
44)
 rewn tery tes argrsd ne foreign
200
are prese tly evai lable for
export fres Japen
etc
w r ry  able to
regarerenrs for vitrariable
relere for porceleep enamelling
(2)
For the phamaware inlustry the impertation of only
smal wantities of specific solors of designated
marutsrturers is necessary Not rore than 6, 000
kilegeams per year se reguired
(3)
The quality of Japanese vitrifiable colors to be
appliet on glass is inferior but at present the
resi is negligible
3
Ieouarry of ratty Alcoals
(1) At present
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.78)
Enclosure No 1
to Tokyc a Despat ch N. Sa3
September 16, 1949
4.
A proeee some w3 makeve  seifensted bigher
sleew   wa donesea sperr rice bran cil
ar sp ar er coc eat orr es cuw raterear for
makma he mecesrer her alechels to be sul-
Prats  adairi  seven makers of sulfonated
     ah frm
   m
(e) A  r  fenat  sber scshel preduction
 reerered  rrese  wes forwarded o
Tedesery Drvoscen by Pene te Drr. .on wad ts be ng returaed to the
Frenet Repaat d  Deor
Mare specific
t
 rerpre: he ser "Industry of
Gell hos bimn"
FOR 
W S. 
ry D
In
A
per
UNCLASSIFTED

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.93)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyc s Despatch No 643.
September 16, 1949.
FRENCH REPARATIONS AND
RESTITUTION DELEGATION
ENQUIRY CONCERNING IHE JAPAHESE INDUSTRY
Indtc ry of Cellulosic Filma
The French Syndicate of the Artificiel Textile would like to
have she fellcwing informaticns conceraing thut industry:
1
Number of work:ng plants:
a
befcre the war
b
presencly
2
Preduction.
8
before he war
b
presently
7
Tonnage presently r ortea n Japan if any
4
Origin of the xmp rtetions
5
If possible sampl es f the present Japauese produets.
UNELASSIFIED

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.97)
OUTGOING IRGRAM
531CLASSIFICATION
Department of State
Washington,
NO.
UNCLASSIFIED
531
USPOLAD,
TOKYO.
A-169, October 6, 1949
The Oriental Ecomomist of June 4, 1949 contains an article
by Hiromu Higuchi, entitled "Machinery Industry in Japan" which
raises the question of possible difficulty in harmonising the
economic stabilization program with the deconcentration and anti-
monopoly policies. The article states in part:
"The machinery industry in Occupied Japan can be said to be
standing at the gravest turning-point in its history because the
so-called concentration of production, i.e., a new demarche
toward industrial rationalization by concentratins output in low-oost,
efficient plants, is being carried out in various ways in almost
894.60/10-649
all divisions at the sacrifice of minor interests...
"The increasing concentration of production in efficient
plants, however, will bring about serious repercussions upon a
large number of medium and amall enterprises. It is feared that
some of these minor ones either will become sub-contractors for
leading corporations, influential wholesalers in some cases, or
will be forced to shut down their shops or give up their business
entirely. It is also to be noted that although it was only at the
beginning of this year that the term 'concentration of production'
was first used among interested circles, definite steps toward this
direction are already being taken in various industries, especially
in machinery and tools manufacture. The most important phase of
controversies with regard to this issue is: won't this kind of post-
war adjustment make meaningless the much publicized liquidation of
S
DISTRIBUTION
the zaibatsu cliques and thereby reinstate the predominance of
DESIRED
monopolizing interests?"
(OFFICES ONLY)
Higuchi cites the shipbuilding, motor vehicle and electrical
ut machinery and appliance industries as examples of apparent
894.
conflict between the stabilization program and the deconcentration
and anti-monopoly policies.
Tiacev
It
6
C
C
S
CR·CLEARANCE
UNCLASSIFIED
H
x
 U. 8. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OPFICE-1947 736896

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.96)
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
Department of State
UNCLASSIFIED
Washington,
NO.
- 2-
TOKYO - A-169, October 6, 1949
It appears from the aforementioned article that the Japanese
public may not be aware that concentration of industrial operations
in most efficient plants and concentration of control or ownership
need not be the same thing or present the same problems and that
competiticn can e encouraged among efficient plants. The
Department would anpreciate your views whether any large segment
of the Japanese public mistakenly believes that measures to end
wasteful, high-cost production resulting from spreading of scarce
materials among an excessive number of plants conflict with the
purposes of the deconcentration program, including the development
of a free, competitive economy. If necessary you may wish to
discuss with aporopriate SCAF officials means of rectifying any
misunderstanding on this score, avoiding/sugestion in such
discussion or statement to the Japanese that concentration of
industrial operations in most efficient plants should be held up.
WEBB (ACTING)
webb
actrig
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
UNCLASSIFIED
n
heP
nAr
CR CLEARANCE
ITP: IR:HBarger: prg
OF
ITP
CP
INA
no
9-27-49
5 1949 P. M.

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT DETACH THIS FORM
894.60/11-549
FILE NO.
RECORD COPY
DESP. 770
THE ATTACHED COPY OF ADESPATCH TELEGRAM AIRGRAM
HAS BEEN DESIGNATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL
ACTION COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS BY
FROM TOKYO
THE ACTION OFFICE.
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
GCFILED
JUNY L1950
M-184
11-9-48

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.98)
DC/R
CONTROL COPY
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
NOV 281949
28.
for Japan
RBC'D
Tokyo, November 5, 1949.
NOV 17
No. 770 (For Department Use Only)
ACTION
ITP
CONFIDENTIAL
INFO
DCR
OFD
Subject: Effect of Industrial Rationalization Pro-
NEA
gram on Medium and Small Enterprises.
OLI
scm
The Honorable
Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
airgram instruction no. 169 of October 6, 1949,
expressing concern at the possibility that the Japa-
nese public may heve come to consider industrial
rationalization and economic deconcentration incom-
patible, and suggesting that this Mission discuss the
problem with appropriate SCAP officials.
The Department's airgram has been discussed with
Mr. William S. VAUGHAN, technical adviser to the Econo-
mie and Scientific Bection (ESS), General Headquarters,
SCAP; Mr. M. M. CLASS, Chief of the ESS Industry
Divis1on; and Mr. Edward C. WELSH, Chief of the ESs
Fair Trade Practices Division (formerly the Anti-Trust
and Cartels Division). The conclusions to be drawn
from those discussions may be summarized as follows:
The most significant body of opinion, in SCAP as
well as in the Japanese Government, holds that small
companies tend to be inefficient companies, and that
efficiency falls when meager raw materials must be
split up among large numbers of producers, none of
whom is operating at capacity. Therefore, although
a conscious policy of concentrating material alloca
tions in favored firms is not likely to be adopted,
it is believed that economic attrition following on
the heels of the stabilization program and the eli-
mination of controls and subsidies will inevitably
have much the same result as would conscious concen-
tration. Though the problem is not faced on precisely
the terms indicated in the Department's instruction,
the conclusion appears to be that rationalization
does
11s0
CONTDENTIAL
dle

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 770,
November 5, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
-2-
does indeed modify the effects of the deconcentration
program. It is not unfair to add that policy-makers
here are inclined to consider that conclusion a. part
of their terms of reference, and therefore do not
worry about its implications.
Mr. Vaughan prefaced his remarks by noting that
the article referred to in the Department's instruc-
tion was published by the Oriental Economist on
June 4, at which time there was under consideration in
General Headquarters a plan for examining the effi-
ciency of each producer in certain critical industries,
and eliminating allocations of raw materials to those
who appeared to be sub-marginal. The program would
have eliminated up to half the producers of such
commodities as soap, bottles, and paints and varnish.
In view of the obvious political implications
of such a program, however, it was abandoned in favor
of a more gredual program which, according to
Mr. Vaughan, will produce the same results. The
soda industry was first considered for rationaliza-
tion through "concentrated production". It soon
became apparent, however, that the elimination of
certain plants would produce marked dislocations in
the labor force, and thet whole cities would quite
possibly be left without an economic base.
The obvious political implications of such a
program, according to Mr. Vaughan, made it imperetive
that a more gradual approach to the same ends be
sought; it therefore became the policy of the Econo
mic and Scientific Section to institute a system of
allocation of raw materials on the basis of tavance
orders for finished products, with the ultim te goal
of eliminating allocations entirely and gradually
reducing subsidies.
Mr. Vaughan concluded, on the basis of the above
observations, that the problem of rationalization is
no longer concerned directly with the elimination of
large numbers of producers, and efficient producers,
whether large or small and whether many or few will
survive the program. It was clear from the general
tone of his remerks that Wr. Vaughan expects produc~
tion to be ultimately concentreted in the hands of a
few producers.
Mr. Class generally seconded Mr. Vaughan's.views,
pointing out that the emphasis of industrial ration-
alization has shifted considerably since publication
of the June 4 article. He continued that the problem
is now one of rationalizing individual companies rather
than of rationalizing an industry as a whole, and of
eliminating those that "show that they can't be ration-
alized". The details of how this is to. be acoomplished
are unclear;
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 770,
November 5, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
-3-
are unclear; the theory aprears to be that every
manager is to have a chance to rationalize his
company before harsh economic realities close in.
Mr. Class concluded that the problem posed in the
Department's instruction is largely academic, in view
of the fact that conscious selection of efficient firms
is no longer being considered.
Mr. Welsh concurred in the Department's conclusion
that industrial rationalization need not run counter
to the deconcentration program, and pointed out that,
in fact, he believed the deconcentration program to
have as one of its aims the furthering of industrial
efficiency. He expressed a conviction, however, that
the general tone of thought in ESs, set by Mr. Calvin
VERITY, Deputy Chief, and prevalent through all the
echelons of technical and industrial advisers, now
holds that the two are indeed inconsistent, and that
ESs is prepared to sacrifice deconcentration for the
sake of rstionalization. Since r. Welsh is st pre-
sent in Washington, it is not believed necessary to
enlarge upon his views in any detail, and it is sug-
gested that the Department may wish to confer with him
on the problems involved.
This Lission realizes thet the views summarized
above do not furnish an entirely satisfactory answer
to the question raised in the Department's airgran.
It is not inaccurate to state that General Head-
quarters considers the issue to have been settled
through the abandonment of the program for "coneen-
trated production", and through substituting therefor
the present scheme of letting the economic stabili-
zation program take its toll.
While holding no brief for the idee that inefficient
Japanese industries should be allowed to live on Ameri-
can charity, this Mission doubts if the Department's
fears will be resolved by any assumption that the
efficient will survive and the inefficient perish as
stabilization progresses. It is by no means certain
that survival will. depend entirely upon business
efficiency, and it appears that in many cases medium
and small enterprises are handicapped by problems not
directly connected with their technical efficiency.
Primarily among these, of course, is the problem of
obtaining credit, the city banks being extremely
reluctant to extend long-term loans to any except the
largest enterprises. Similarly, small businesses find
it more difficult to maintain inventories and to extend
credit than do larger enterprises.
A paragraph from the Economic Stabilization Board's
"Analysis of the Economy in Transition", which was for-
warded with this Mission's despatch no.767 of Novem-
ber 4, 1949, may be quoted in this connection:
"As an effect
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 770,
November 5, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL (For Depertment Use Only)
-4-
"As an effect of the derlationary trend on
enterprise, the careless management under infla-
tion is being severely criticized and sincere
efforts are being made for the lowering of
cost through rationalization. However, the
abnormal fectors still existing in the basic
national economy place limits to the rational-
ization within enterprises. Owing to the
shortage of capital, the rationalization is
not effected through improvement of equipment
and technique but through reduction of workers
and liquidation of weak enterprises. In the
process of rationalizetion, concentretion of
production to big enterprises goes alongside
the liquidation of medium and small enter-
prises, thus aggravating the social contradic-
tions".
It is also questionable whether enterprises which
find it difficult to compete in an economy operating at
the present low level should automatically be allowed
to fail, even though they could operate profitebly if
production were increased, or whether, on the other
hand, they should at least be given the assistance of
somewhat easier credit policies.
While the Department's airgram apparently was
concerned with larger scale enterprises in which re-
trenchment could be undertaken within companies without
reducing competition between those companies, any pro-
gram tending to eliaiinate numerous medium and small
companies runs equally counter to the principles of
deconcentretion. As noted above, this Mission recog-
nizes the dangers of wasteful dispersion of productive
effort; care should be teken, however, to ensure thet
stabilization not take the direction which occasicned
the Depsrtment's eirgram, i.e., that of equating
rationalization with lergeness and concentration.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
Parchment Met to Department
500
EGSeidensticker, Jr.:keb
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.96)
4
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITID STATES OF AMERICA
894.60/11-1449NTERNATIONAL PESORCES I0
Office of the U. S. Political Adviser
1
REC'D
RCD
for Japan
NOV 21
Actic
Tokyo, November 14, 1949
ACTION
ITP
No. 792
111
NATIONAL RESOURGES DIVISION
INFO
IYP:
FR
UNCLASSIFIED
BQ
1049
DCR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FE
7als
OLI
OFD
Subject: Transmission of Statement Regarding
894.6
L
Small Business in Japan.
COM
FRB
TAR
RFC
TREAS
The Actin Political Adviser has the honor to enclose a copy
of a statement entitled "Small Business in Japan," dated November 8,
1949, and issued by the Public Information Office, General Head-
quarters, Far East Conmand, Tokyo.
m
According to this statement, "small business in Japan, freed
from feudalistic paternalisn, is now on the upward swing." Infor
mation is given regarding the steps taken to encourage ard guide
small businesses, first by the Anti-Prust and Cartels Division
(now the Fair Trade Practices Division), Economic and Scientifi.
Section, General Headquarters, SCAP, and later by the Japanese
Government. Establishment of the Smaller Enterprises Agency is
cited, together with a summary of its operations.
XR
The statement concludes with an observation to the effect that
"although survival and expansion represent a difficult problen for
a large number of these smaller enterprises, predictions are that
894.602
small business is entering a period of improve ent."
Enclosure:
1949 NOV 29 PM 4 02
Copy of Information Bulletin No. 25
MESSANTER
dated November 8, 1949, entitled
"Small Business in Japan".
BEtE2 3 1949
Parchment Mat to the Department.
FILED
500
CHBoehringer:lee
FAP
UNCLASSIFIED
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R PILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF AOTION TAKEN.

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 792
November 14, 1949, from the Office
of the U.S. Political Adviser for
UNCLASSIFIED
Japan, Tokyo, on the subject "Trans-
mission of Statement Regarding Small
Business in Japan."
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
FAR EAST COMMAND
Public Information Office
Information Bulletin No. 25
8 November 1949
SMALL BUSINESS IN JAPAN
Dissolution of industrial and business combines in Japan began
shortly after the beginning of the Occupation in 1945, and responsi-
bility for it was vested in the Anti-Trust and Cartels Division of
the SCAP Economic and Scientific Section.
This action embodied an attack cn monopolies and domestic and
international cartels, the most powerful of which were those with
Zaibatsu connections.
Small business in Japan, freed from feudalistic paternalism,
is now on the upward swing. The latest reports from the Anti-Trust
 Cartels Division, based on the best available figures prepared
by the Statistics Bureau of the Premier's Office, show there are
approximately 948,819 manufacturing enterprises and 1,012,633 com-
mercial enterprises in existence in Japan. Of these organizations,
more than 99 percent employ less than 100 people.
Statistics covering the four major manufacturing fields follow:
Total Firms Less than 100 More than 100
in Japan
Employees
Employees
Spinning and weaving
178,795
177,820
975
Lumber and Wooden products
159,482
159,068
414
Food products
130,528
130,303
225
Machines and tools
60,822
59.300
1.522
Totals
529,627
526,491
3,136
Rasults of the early attack on monopolistic concerns indicated
that positive action was needed to assist and encourage individual
initiative. Continuous opportunity for small enterprisers to go into
business and to compete with others was recognized as important to the
maintenance of a free economy.
Encouraged and guided by the Anti-Trust and Cartels Division, a
few Japanese, recognizing the basic importance of small business, set
out to do something about it. The result of that effort was the estab-
lishment of the Smaller Enterprises Board, currently known as the.
Smaller Enterprises Agency, on Aug. 1, 1948, when Public Law 83 was
passed by the Diet.
This
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's Despatch No. ?92,
November 14,1949.
-2-
This law recognized that "smaller enterprise is essential to
a sound and prosperous Japanese economy" and that "small, efficient,
independent enterprise will serve as a bulwark against concentrations
of economic power." The. purpose was "to establish conditions which
will assist in the development and successful operation of smaller
enterprise."
The Smaller Enterprises Agency, the first of its kir! known to
have existed in Japan, operates as a semi-independent agency, as free
as possible from political control. It is headed by a director general
who acts as administrator of the policies and objectives set forth by
the law.
The agency director receives compensation and emoluments similar
to a vice-minister and was attendant at the vice-minister = meetings
as a spokesman for small business in Japan. The total of 94 persons
in the agency perforn functions in the director's secretariat and in
the Prcmotions and Fostering Divisions and six operating sections.
Under the law the general duties of the agency are to gather
analyze and fully disseminate information on all matters pertinert to
efficient business methods and successful operation. These include
precurement and availability of materials or substitutes, production
methods, engineering, inventory maintenance, accounting, merchandising,
advertising, sales methods, distribution and transportation, credit
taxatien sources, use of fuel and power, labor relations and govern-
ment. The staff examines and diagnoses the problems, organization
and methods, making recommendations for improvement. None of these
functions, however, obligates the enterprise in any way.
The agency also conducts widespread publicity including the is-
suance of its monthly Journal of Smaller Enterprises.
Consultation with laboratories and research institutions, passing
on those findings useful to the smaller enterprise, is another phase
of the agency's work. It encourages, without requiring, new and use~
ful products and processes. It also maintains liaison and cooperates
with all sections of the government, national and local, whose activi-
ties affect small business. It receives and refers to the Fair Trade
Commission, any complaints of government or private business which
affect smaller enterprises, restrain their trade or constitute nfair
competition.
During its year of operation, the Smaller Enterprises Agency,
working on a small budget of 36,500,000 yen, has established a fin-.
ancial system and obtained from the Reconstruction Finance Bank sub-
stantially increased allocations for direct agency loans and guaranteed
private loans to small enterprises, quarter by quarter.
More than 1,400 mall business and factories were diagnosed and
received recommendations from the agency between February and June,
1949. During the past year, training and technical courses were held
three or four. times in each prefecture in cloisonne, lacquerware, op-
tical lenses and other industrial skills. It is now undertaking the
establishment
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 792,
November 14, 1949.
-3 -
establishment of consultation offices through liaison with local
governments and has opened 129 of these offices.
Added stimulus has been given to the program through exhibi-
tions of the materials produced, two of which have been held in
Tokyo and one in Osaka. Experimental products were displayed as
well as displays in wooden and bamboo products, metal products,
machines and appliances, chemical and ceraric products, lacquer-
ware and textiles. These exhibitions were supported by charted
statistical data which demonstrated the problems of Japan's smaller
businesses and their prospects in the field of foreign trade, Over
one thousand exhibitors, including public laboratories, represent-
ing nearly every prefecture and major municipality in Japan partici-
pated in these exhibitions.
Although survival and expansion represent a difficult prcblem
for a large number of these smaller enterprises, predictions are
that small business is entering a period of improvement.
-0-
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.95)
THE POREIGN SEDRVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Office of the U. S. Political Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, December 5, 1949.
mo13
No. 848
DCR
OFFICE OF
AOTION
INTERNATIONAL TRADE POLICY
UNCLASSIFIED
DEC181949
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Subject: Transmission of "Technical White Paper" Issued
by Ministry of International Trade and Industry.
OLI
XR
OND
894.60/12-549
1
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose a copy
AGRI-Sno
of a report entitled "Present Conditions of the Mining and Indus-
CON-eno
trial Technics in Our Country," which was issued on November 19,
TAR-eno
1949, by the Agency of Industrial Science and Technology, Ministry
TEAS-ono
of International Trade and Industry.
FRB
LABOB-eno
The present report, generally referred to as the "Technical
iImS-enc
White Paper," is a summary translation of a much longer study
ECA
issued simultaneously in the Japanese language. The report is
marred by all too numerous typographical errors and many mistakes
in translation; nonetheless, the substance of what is said may
readily be determined.
After explaining the'relation between scientific techniques
and foreign trade, resources, enterprises and standard of living,
the report attempts to present a picture of the present techno-
logical level of the mining and manufacturing industries in Japan.
It is stated:that "in spite of the extremely important role to be
played by the techniques in rehabilitating and stabilizing the
Japanese economy...the techniques, which may be said the sole as-
sets left to postwar Japan, seem to have been neglected indif-
ferently or handled vaguely in the past." The lack of equilibrium
between the development in the respective branches of technologies
in Japan is especially emphasized.
The report. states that the level of Japan's scientific tech-
niques in the mining and manufacturing industries is relatively
high in some fields, but, taken as a whole, Japan lags behind the
United States and certain European countries in the application
and industrialization of such techniques. Fields in which. Japanese
mining and manufacturing techniques have made the most progress are
said to be hydroelectric power, electrical appliances, communica-
tions equipment, rolling stock, textile machinery, shipbuilding, 
oement, plate glass, fibers and the alcohol industry. Fields in 
FILED
which Japanese technology is deficient include coal mining, petro>
leum exploitation, iron and steel manufacture, non-ferrous metals;I
steam power, machinery parts; shipbuilding machinery, plastics,
ceramics, and fireproof bricks.
The
FAP
UNCLASSIFIED
AOTION COPY
RETUBN TO DO/R FILES WITHIN IN RAYS. WITH A NOTATIÓN OF ACTIÓN TAKEN

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 848,
December 5, 1949
2
The greatest defect of Japanese techniques, it is pointed out,
consists of poor supervision of the quality of products, with too
much reliance being placed on "hunches" and "knack" of experienced
workers.. The report states that the daily life.of the Japanese
people in general is lacking in scientific methods; that is re-
flected in the lack of uniformity in many products made by small
enterprises..
Compared with the United States, even in the fields in which
Japán is considered to be relatively advanced, it lags some 10
years behind American levels of techniques. In other fields, there
1s said to be a lag of from 20 to 30 years.
The report points out that the low standards of living in
Japen is preventing the improvement of better techniques owing to.
the limited domestic market for superior products. In this con-
nection it is noted that "the improvement of techniques presupposes
the existence of a fairly big demand. Industries relying mainly
on unstable export markets cannot be firmly established unless their
894.
products enjoy worldwide fame. A low standard of living makes the
domestic market narrow and generally retards the elevation of the
tochnical lovel."
The roport points out that labor productivity in Japan has
declined drastically as a whole compared with prewar days because
of the decrepitude of equipment, irregular procurement of materials
and reduction of working hours. It then lists the following weak-
neses;. among others, in Japan's mining and manufacturing techniques:
(1) poor quality of raw materials, attributable to the fact that
Japan!s natural resources are limited; (2): lag in the development
of welding techniques; and (3) backwardness in both aynthetic
resin and aynthetic textile industries.
The "White Paper" frankly admits that hitherto the improvement
of tochniques was synonymous with the importation and copying of
foreign technologies and, accordingly, no efforts were exerted to-
ward enhancing the technological level by Japan's own capital and
inventiveness,. a tendency which is said remains unchanged.
Issuance of this report prompted publication of several edi-
torials by leading English-language and vernacular papers. The
English edition of: the Osaka Mainichi on November 20, 1949, said
that the roport "offers postwar Japan rich food for serious thought.
In its editorial, the Mainichi observed that:
"Japan, whose territory has been reduced to the four
main islands since the surrender, must export to survive;
export finished produots processed from imported raw ma-
torials. In other words, she must depend on the profits
from processing--manufacturing in other words--to sustain
herself, importing foodstuffs in which she is not self-
sufficient. Raw materials which she utterly lacks must
also be paid from manufacturing profits. With this basic
economic
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokro's Despatch No. 848,
December 5, 1949.
3
conomic condition confronting her, the attainment of
national and efficient technological know-how is one.
of the'most important prerequisites for the promotion
of exports. The world will buy Japanese goods if they
are high in quality. The most advanced technological
methods are necessary for the production of quality
goods at reasonable prices..."
The Yomiuri Shimbun, Tokyo, on November 23, 1949, in commenting
on the mwhite Paper", noted that that report, wittingly or unwittingly
failed to point out what it termed the most important factor that has
caused Japan's engineering techniques to be so backward. The Yomiuri
stated that:
"Needless to say, during the war engineering in.
our country was placed under absolute control of the
military and bureaucrats. No matter how excellent in-
ventions, discoveries and devices might have been made
among private circles, they could not be realized un-
less they had the support of the bureaucrats.: Through
their control over funds and materials, bureaucrats
had the power to kill or let live any and all enter-
prises. Most of the entrepeneurs chose the easy way
of continuing to operate their plants by getting into
the good graces of bureaucrats rather than to meet the
hard necessities of the intensive war by striving to
achieve technical progress. This led to the terrible
corruption, graft and jobbery among bureaucrats on the
one hand and held in check any progress in engineering.
The Nippon Times, English-language daily published in Tokyo
under Japanese auspices, on the same date published a thoughtful edi-
problems encountered in having Japanese manufacturers adopt advanced
industrial techniques. While the Times suggests that consultants be
employed to give technological advice to various firms, no mention is.
made of what appears to be a prime essential, namely, that foreign
consultants be employed for that purpose. For in no other way, even
by having Japanese technical experts study abroad, does it seem pos-
sible for Japan to hope to bridge the time-lag between it and the
United States in the matter of industrial "know-how."
att
Enclosires:
1/ Copy of report entitled "Present
Conditions of the Mining and Industrial
Tochnics" (8 copies to the Department);
2/ Copy of editorial entitled "A Basic
Step" from the November 23, 1949 issue
of the Nippon Times.
Copy to American Embassy, London.
Parchment Mat to the Department.
500
CHBoehringer:lee
B6
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure Nc. 2 to Despatcn N-. 848,
December 5, 1949, from the Office of
the U. S. Folitical Adviser for Japan,
UNCLASSIFIED
Tokyo, on the subject "Transmission of
'Technical White Paper' Issued by
Ministry of International Trade and
Industry."
(Copy.of editorial from the. November 23
1949 issue of the Nippon Times, Tokyo)
A BASIC STEP
The recent announcement of a White Paper on 'he present level of
ciontific technique in Japan comes as a sobering thought to the Japa-
nese people who are feeling highly elated over the receipt of the Nobel
Prise in physice by Dr. Hideki Yukawa. The document prepared by the
Mnistry of International Trade and Industry revealed that Japan is from
10 to 30 years behind the United States in mining and industrial technique
As reasons for this lag, the White Paper has mentioned the long iso-
lation due to the war, the wearing out and the destruction of machinery,
the reliance upon the plentiful and cheap labor, and the practice of
copying foreign models. And there is the still existent lack of interest
on the part of the Government, the entrepreneurs as well as the people
in the nation's technological advance.
The need for greater progress in this field is self-evident. It
is. the answer to some of the most pertinent problems facing the nation
today. One of the axioms of solving the problem of over-population is
that a nation reach a high state of industrialization. As one SCAP of-
ficial pointed out recently, the advance of scientific technique is in
 sense an increase in territory to care for more people and to raise
their living standard. And the beauty of it is that no one will be-
grudge such.advances.
Then there is the problem of trade whose basic solution lies in
the manufacture of superior goods. But without the technical and scien-
tirie knowhow, Japanese goods will not be able to compete with the pro-
ducts: of more advanced nations. There was a time when Japan utilized
virtual lave labor to cut production costs to the barest minimm. But
that pariod of immoral and unfair competition has long since passed.
The anmwer to the question of how to produce superior goods at the low-
st possible cost must be found in the improvement of the nation's in-
dustrial technique to cut per unit costs and to turn out the best pos-
sible products.
One may, moreover, talk himslef blue in the face about the rationali-
sation of the nation's industries. But rationalization should not end
in merely streamlining business and clerical procedures and in discharg-
ing personnel. With fewer help the entrepreneur may actually find himself
producing an even more inferior product. What must be done is to utilize
technical knowhow.
To be sure, the matter of funds looms large. And it is a matter of
record that both the Government and the entrepreneurs have been ex-
tremely reluctant to spend money for the advancement of and research in
scientifio technique. Their reason of course is that they do not have
the funds for projects and experiments which may or may not succeed.
In

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.98)
Enalosre No. 2'to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 848,
December 5, 1949.
-2-
In truth, there have been mmerous inventions by private individuale
whieh could not be commercialised because the inventors could not
find financial backing. In the United States, the enterprising spiri
of the people has been such that periods of depression and financial
stringenoy have seen the greatest active support for scientific re-
searoh. The Government and entrepreneurs here would do well to learn
this lesson.
On a practical basis, the entreprenours could join forces and
contribute to common experimental projects which.raise the technical
standard of their particular industry as a whole. They could, more-
over, employ consulting engineers who would be on call from all
entrepreneurs to solve specific problems facing the individual firm
The Govermment for its part should give financial aid in every pos-
sible way since the benefits from the advance of technique in one
industry is not limited to that industry but to the nation as a whole.
And every encouragement must be made for the accumulation of capital
so that the commercialization of new technique may be possible.
There is every hope for a bright economic future for Japan. But
it is essential that the people do not neglect this important tech-
nological and scientific phase of  apan's reconstruction into a modern
peaceful nation. Indeed, this is a basic step.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.83)
XAX XXXXO XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXIXXXXXXXX XXX XX XXXCCIX XXXXAAX
LXX.CXX-COXX CX.CC.XXXXX.XXXXXXXAXXX.
PRESENT CONDITIONS CF THE MINING AND I DUSTRIAL THCHICS
OF CUP COUNTRY
The Technical White Paper

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.90)
X
1
X X X
X X X X X X
X X X X X X X X
XXXXXX
XXX
X
Agency of Industrial Science and Technology.
Ministry of International Trade and Industry
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX.XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
XX ZCXXXXXXXXXXXC0XCXXZXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXCXXCXXXXXXXXC0XXX

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.96)
CONTEUTS
1. Fereword
11. The Role Flayed by the Mining and Industrial Technics in
Reonony
(1) Foroigz Treda end Technise
(2) Pesources and Teohnics
(3) Enterprises and Technics
(4) Standard of Living and Technics
III. Technological Level of mining end manufacturing Incustries in this country
IIII.
Present stage by industry of our mining and mamufacturing tachniques
(1) Resources
A. Outlime

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.93)
B. Cosl
1) Outline
2) Natural conditions
3) Sponing of pits and : digging, convoyance
4) Coal dressing
5) Safety Freservation
C. Petcoleon end netural gas
1) Cutline
2) Diggine, oil collecting
3) Refinins
4) Nawural gs
D. Iron and Steel
1). Outline
2) Pig iron rmnufacturing
3) Steel manufacturing
4) Relling
5) Specal steel
6) Secondary Products

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.96)
E. Non-ferrous matals and non-metais
1) Non femrous metals
n. Cro digging
b. Cro dressing
c. Refining
d. Utilization of gas oxhausted at refineriss
2) Hon-metals
a. Lime stone
b. Asbastos
c. Fire clay
d. Plaster
e. Othars
F. Electric Power
1) Outline
2) Hyriro-Powor
3) Thermal Power
4) Electrical transmission and distribution
(2) lamufacturing iniustry
Heehipary and teals 

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.95)
1) Outlim
2) Machine-tools and bearing
3) Casting and forging
3. Forging
b. Steel casting
c. Casting
5) Rolling stock
a. Hailvay rolling stook
b. Automebibes
c. Bicycles
6) Spining and vesving mchines
B. Shipping industry
1) Ship-building
2) Engine-building
C.
Chewical industry
1) Otli
Soda
4) Dyestuffs
5). Syethatie resin

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.97)
D.
Ceramics
1)
Cemont
2)
Sheet glass
3)
Porcelain and China-Ware
4)
Electrode, fire-bricke
E.
Textile:industry
1) Outline
2)
Cotton
3)
Chamical fibre rayon and staple fibre
4)
Other fibres --wool and synthetic fibres
F.
Other inlustries
1)
Paper pulp industry
2)
Rubber industry
3)
Permentation industry
lllll. Foundation for fostering mining antranufacturing techniques
A.
Preface
B.
Test and ressareh

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.96)
1)
Test and research organs
2)
Research personael
3)
Research cost
Subjects of researek and test for industrialization
C.
Invention and patent
Purposes of patent system
2)
Situstion of applications and registrations of industrial cwmerships
3)
Present situetion of examination and judgment
4)
Present situation of international contracts
5)
Concluston
D.
Work on industrial standardization
1)
Meaning and effect ef industrial standardization
2)
Present situation of work on industrial standardization
Coming into force of industrial Standardization Law
Eo
Acadonic societies and technical arganizations
Academic sccieties
2)
Tochnioal organizations
F.
Training end schooling of teohnicians
ConcIusion
YTO

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.94)
-10
1. Foreword
On what international level the mining and industrial teclmies of cur country ere
situated ? What sre the detects of the Jeparese tachnies ? What sbate of being is
desirable for the technics of the future Japan?
Heretofore, the general public had little interest in scionce and tachnies.
When interests were shown, they wero supfrfluous, and real underetanding was soldem atteined.
In spite cf the extremely important role to be played by the tochnice in rehabilitat-
ing and stebilizing the Japanase economy, as siated in tho Sellcwing chapter, the technics,
t
which may be said ae the sole asseus left to tho poot-war Japan, scem tohave boen neglected
indifferently or handlod veguely in the mst.
We take pleasure in presenting to you the following report on the present conditions
of mining and industpial technies showing tho plain facts based on data cotainable at present,
in our hop, that the synthotical and appropriste valuation on Japaneso tephnics may be made
by varimuf parties, and we sincarely hope that our people understand the importance of the
promotim of the technies of cur country and extend to us svory scoperation.
11. The Role played by the Mining and Industrial tochnics in Economy
in the post-war Japanase economy, the balance af resouroes and population is entiraly lost.
Undar sush a condition, it is ettremoly diffionls t

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.94)
the standard of ving urthor, the deprossed condition of our export business is offering
new
anothermme problam to the Japanese coonomy, which is depending mmch cn foreign countries.
Wo believe we must elearly understand shat the fundamental factor of solving such contradictions
is e dvelepment f techriss. Then what role can be playod by the technics in the 
rebabilltation and stabilization of our econry?
(1) Foreign Trade crd Tochnics
It goes without saying that she promotion of oxoort is the life-line of our
industry and for the realisntion thereof the produation of superior cormcdities
becomes necessary. Furthermore, various fapvors such as the ineroased importance of
machines, chemionl produsus, ete. in the censtitutien of export cormodities, with
the conscquent tendoney of the inereaso of produato ef higher grndee, the rapidly
intemaifying export competition ci countrice surrounding us, and the progress of
industrialization cf the viriove techaically backwurd uations, aro all stristly denand-
ing the dvanserent of the sechnies of our country. But it will not be pormissible
for the post-war pan to rosume the pre-war waye of promoting export through the
cheap price, realized by the low wages. The key of the promotion of export should lHe
in the supply of superior commcdities at low prices, increasing the productivity of
labor through the improvement of tacenies. wo consider we shotld recolloet hew England
endeavored nfter tho terninatien of wer. under the skogan " Expert o Die ", to improve
and develop the technies, petting much importance on the technical recearches, in

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.97)
order to reconstruct economy. espoeielly, especially to prcmoto export. U mst see squarely
the fact that English people are steadily obtaining the satisfactory results of their
efforts.
We are now under the difficult intornaticnal sntuatlon, and without the improvement
of technics, we shall be unable to resum the splondid export of former daye.
the world is also hoping to see the appearance of low priced commodities f su erior
quality."Bright export through brillians tochnics "is the slogan of tho indosuriil
technie promotion movement of this year, and is re resenting exactly the 
earnest desire to reconstruct the psaceful Japan through the scientific technice.
Lastly, we wish to touch on the export of technic itself, nawely the introduction
of the Japanese tochnics to foreign countries. It is natural that the industrially
backward nations try to elevate their technical levels in a short time by puel sing
and putting into practice the patent right of the more advanced states  ivi
technicians from these countries. Such a tendency is becoming more and mere conspisicu
in the southorn Asiatic peoples, probably because they consider, in view of their low
standard of living the tecinics of ou coumtry ame more

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.95)
than European or Amorican tecinics, On the other hand, the export of superior
technics to advanced states is quite pcssible as in tho cise of the Japanose invention
on the permanent magnotic steel which was put into prictico in Gormany
Needlass to say that wo are feoling the impanding necessity of elevating the technicil
Level quickly by indufing the superior techrics from Enroe and merica t it is our
C
earnest dedire that we estaolish the criginal technits, which are befitted i
the Jipaneso resources and export markets, and realize the exports of taci c
themselves in the balanee of intormational receipts and paymente.
(2) Resorrces and Technies
It would be scarcely necessary to say that for the attainment of s
e
indepondenee of ou country, we must strive to develop, utilize, cconowize nd r
witer, land, energies, minerals and other resources. W will cite the soncroto exa
showiny the roles played by the mining and industrial technies in realicing 
purpoucs.
he physical prospecting method which was invented by the modern ssice.
finding the now oil fielde and made it possible to investigate existing conditions
of coal sean lying under land and sea. Thus, this method is supplying us with now
resources, and on account of the advancoment of the prosperting techniçs, the ratio of
utilizaticn of massive mineral deposite, which were used to be left unexploited up to
about Bo% until recently, 1s becoming higher now.

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.96)
-3-
The physical prospooting mothod whioh vas invented iy the modern ssiance, is actually
finding the new oil fields and made it possiblo to iavossigato tho cxisting conditions
of canl seam lying undur land and sea. thus. this methed is supplying us with new
resour cos, and on acoount of the advancomont of tho prospocting toghnios, the ratio of
utilistion of massivo minerel doposits, vhieh wore used to db left unoxolcitod up to
about 80% until rosently, is becoming highor now
three times
Investigations on the latent hydraulic power wore mde in our ccuntry there these
the reason of this?It was because the gonorating techmies, the coordinated art of
civil engineering technies and mochanical techuice, havo advanced the predustion of
the synthetic fibers is a good example of taving crented the noy resourees tirougn the
concentrated strenghth of various technics, and there re cther countlose camples of
the similar : mature.
For exploiting the national resources, it is necessary to form the synthoticil plan.
respecting the organic unity of nature. In this connection, wo natrally recolloct
T V A Plan of U. S. A., which succeeded to concentrate the nowust and highest tochniès
for realizing the organic and synthetical development and utilization of the oxtensive
area of thennessee River, taking into consideration tho various view points.
This is a very good example showing th

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.98)
and vill give many auggestions to us for daveloping our national resoureos.
It is also a matter of course that the efficiont use, economy and preservaticn of
resourses must all bo planned on the basis of technics. The utilisation of by-products
of factor ies is a fouus of the problems of modern industry, espscially ahemical
industry, The characteristic of progressiveness lies in the fact that to-day's weete
quite cléar thit techrics play an important role in solving the probloms of resorses,
but in the present-day Japan technics are not usilized sufficiently and their intrinsic
values are not yet displayed . As Dr. Ackerman, of GHo? sea said the increase of
resources through technics would be tie extension of torritory, on which no one in
the world would intend to point out an error. We believe these words clearly suggost
the course of progress of the paceful Japan.
(3) Enterprisos and Technics
With the advancement of science and technics, tho technic became one of the basic
factors of constituting tho modern enterprise and is playing a decisive role for the
oxistenco and development of onterprise. In our country, howuver, the position of
technics in enterprise cannot be said as properly valued, For instance, in spite
of the fact that the industrial experiments and researches are mothers of technical
improvements, guaranteeing the future development of enterprise, the enterprisers are
gererally short-sighted in this respect. When management becomes difficult. they

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.97)
oensider it a matter of course to diminis! first of al the expanses and the peresmpels
of experiments and researches. They usually lack the will to industrialime bearing
some burdens, evon the valuable results of researches, obtained afterm mny painstaking
offorts, unless they produce profit in a short time.
It must behoted that there aro historical and economic reasomsfor such attitudes
of entarprisers. Since the beginning of Maiji era in 1868, the industries of our
country were developed by importing and imitating the technios af the advanced coutries.
Even when'they were compelled to improve the technics, the enterprisers of our
country used to convert the management by such easy methods as the purohase of the
foreign patent right, import of machines and the like, and they neglected to rely upon the oririn
original technics obtained from the regular experiments and researches.
Further, the abundant supply of cheap labor tended to make the entarprisers negleot
the necesaity of improving the quality, finding way out in lower price. Moreover,
the accumulation of capital was not sufficient in the Japanese industry and there was
little room for the enterprisers to actually experienoe that the expendes for experiments
and researohes mede for improving technies wers roally extremely lucrative investments.
In our tss system also, no measures were takento make the ampariments and ressarebes

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.97)
properly on the roal rale they play within the enterprise. In the post-war Japan, in which
the economical and social conditions were entirely changed, technies must regain their
S
intrinsic nature and perform the original mitsion. It is quito natural that, with the 
tncrease of severity in the international and domestio compatition, the rationalization of
enterprise was emphasized, the backwardness of the Japanesetochnis became a big problen, and
the fact that the improvement of technics was the besis of the contimustion and detelopment 
enterprise began to be recogniged.
of entortrose-nogam tp ne-reepgmosed.
We wish to refrain from goigg into details, and touch on only a few points worthy of notice.
It goas without gaying that in enterprise activities the sciontific production managament
is necessary, and it must be noted that our country is inferior to the advanced states in
Europe and America especially in quality management. For the Japaneso export industry,
which was often denounced in the world market for tho inferior and ununiform quality, the
qulity management is quite important. If we put into practice the same management with soientific
precision, it will be poesible for us to win the intermational credit of tbeing suppliers of
commodities of uniform quality at low prices.
In our enterprise activitdes, the monetary balance sheet is beld as important, while
the balance sheet of raw materials and energies is usually megleoted. In such acondition, the
rationalisation of enterprise cannct be hoped for. In this respect, we are much bohind the.c
advanced natioa, and therefore we can find here a wide field of activities for technios.

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.96)
-~
5
From old times, the Japaneso people had a strong ? custom of rolying upon export's
feeling and intuition, and even in modern enterorisd the measuring and weighing were quite
negloetod. By teeaurement, quite a wide fiold of onterpriae may be reticnalized, in preventing
, the wnste of labor and materials and avoiding the lack of uniformity of quality. If the automatio
regulating equipment is developed, it will be possible to increaso the efficieney. On the other
hand, the progress in measurement ideas will stimilate reversely the invention of meters. In this
way, tho teclmics will contribute, through measurenent, to improve the quality and lower
tho cost of produetione
Lastly, wo wish to consider tho relo of technios played in smnllar enterpriscs. In the
industrial construction of our country, the smaller enterprises ccoupy quite an important o
position, but very fow f them exist as an enterprise of appropriate scale for the kind of 
products and the greater part of tham are conducting production under the ald handieraft style
But, the changes in the social entironments and the tendencies of international markots made it
diffivmil: for smaller onterprisers to beeak through the diffisulties by lowering of wagos.
Thus tho smaller onterprieers are now compelled to adopt the modern technics. Setting aside
tie special tsanches such as Iacquer wares, handiworks and ceramic wares, which can secure
market by the skill of employees, in all branches which are in a position to compste with the b
big enterprises, the infericrity of the teehnées af the smaller enterprises naturally bee

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.97)
a question, and tho positive and sppropriate fostaring and guidance on thoir technics are 
dosirable.
(4) Suandard of Living and Technies
S
Gonerally spaaking, technies should sim at the progreds and the imprevemont of tho culture
of manlein nd serve to elovato the standard of living of peeples. In tiho Past, howver,
the Japanese tochries vere utilized directly or indirectly to strongthen the military
power, and she improvement cf living euvironmont was forgotten. In future, technies should 
resume their original mission and render servico to the wholo pcople of cur country.
It will net be nouessary to explain hore that technics olovate directly the level of
consumptivo life of the people. Under the prosont condition of our country, it is hopeless
to slevate the standard of living by equipping immadiately with the high grado equipment and
machines such as the clectrio refrigerator, the electric cleanor and automobilo, the results
of seientifio and technical roscarches. All the means left to us for the prosent are to wati
rationaliso through technics tho consumption and produce the comfortable living environment
by the scientific rogulation of life. for this purpose, it is important that the prople's
recognition af tochnies is deepented. In ordor to realize this, wo should epare no offorts
in carr ying cut sciontifio oducation and in making industrial technics pronoting mofements.
Noxt, we wish to stato on the possibility that the standards of living may be clovatod
by the elovation of the productive technics through economy. Inside of an entorprise, the
defeloprant of technics will raise the productivity of labor and give thooretically the 

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.98)
possibillity of lovering the cost of producgs and increasing the wagee. But as an actual problem. the
enterprisers will not always uso the surplus powers producod by the improvements in tachnics directly
for increasing the wages, as thoir cnterprises may have to face with the domestic and international c:
competition. In tho yast, we saw many instances in our country in which such surplus powers were
reserved by the enterpisors as profit. Theoretically, however, it is chear that the improvement of
or
thereof .If the problem is considered generally. not frem the standpoin of enterprise alone, in the
real world the various economic, accial and politicel conditions aro necossary in order that the o
development of technics elovate the standard of living of the whoif nation, But this is rather 
negative view. W6 cannot deny the possibility that domestically and internationally technics
stimulate the new production, inerease the new imployment, dispose of the low wages and assist
the elevation of the standard of living.
Lastly,we wish to state that the lo standard of living is preventing the improvement of

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.96)
are
and there many modes of life. Consequently, the demand is divided into many articles and the 
quantity of demand is extremely lirited. Thes is one ofthe rensons why the smller enterprises were
permitted to exist extensively in cur country, but at the s me time this hae made it diffimult to
realize the regular improvement of technics, which presuppose the existence of the fairly big
demand. More than 30% of the American automobiles wae sold in the domostic market in U.S. A.Formerly,
the Britith industries vere doveloped beifg backed by colony markete, which Clos ly resomble to
n
domestic market. The industries relying mainly on the unstable export markets cannot be firaly
established, unless their products enjoy world- wide fane. Thus, the low standard of living makos
e
the domestic market narrow, and genprally retard the elevation of technical levol.
In short, each of the standard of living and the technical level assits the others elevation,
and without the elovation of the stindard of living, the elevation of the tochnical level cannot be
expocted.

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.95)
Ⅲ. Technological Level of Mining and Manufacturing Industrias in This Country.
It is quite difficult to explnin in a summarized forn hov the lovel of technolagios of mining
and manufacturing industries in this country are.
However, if we give some explanations on the characteristic matters picked out of the Chapter
3 which treats the present stage by industries in the mining and manufacturing industries in
this country and show the present situation of technologies of Japan, especially their weak points 1
fron varicue points of view, we shall be abbe to succeed in making the technologercal lefei of
this country as well as how they should be directed towerd fulures progress understeed, thong. 
vaguoly.
di
The comparison of technological levels being made with the United States only, alone coruot
Iwars make th clear the situation of the Japan's technologies on tho world tochnolcgical loveis.
Accordingly, we should like to request your attfntion to the fact that the conclusion cannot bo drawn
S
coantry
to the effect that all the cientific technclogies of our oqumty should
directed toward the wey
of those of the United States, there bing also a considerable diffirence in econemic as well is sociil
circunstanoes betieen those two countrioe.
(A) We will start from the problem of the efficiency of production.
Labor produotivity in our country has lowered dresticaily as s whole
proourement of materials and the reduction of work

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.96)
mener
in the coal minig industry where the annual output per one ip is no loss tap 90 1etric
tons against the output totalling 200 metric tons during a 1930-1934 poried. Even in the
spinding industry which is considered to be the most prosperous in this courtry sthr's at
about 78% in output against that during the same poriod, whoreas in the U.
four
labor productivity n industries pre  showed a marked advancementi
the ten year period from 1930 to 1939, Consequently, there aresa s r nee in
Iafor productivity between these two countries after the wer. The laber polustivity is.
when compared with thnt of the United States, very low in its ratio, rosulting in 5 or loss 
in the coal mining industry on the whole, one sixth even in the artificial silk industry
and one ninth in the rubber industry. We can steribut& the causes for such a atartling
difference between two countrics to the fact that in the United States the izing neel mira-
tion and autonaticization of industrial equipment and facilititics  were put into practice
and that the scieftific factory managoment system wis also developed to the fullost degre.
As an example, we will take here the machine tools as euuipment in factaries.
se
Their composition by types is entirely diffegent from that inthis country, ttiny the
number of them aside. In Japan tho machine tools are copposed minly of ordimmry lathes, 
e
while in the United States there are found a great niny of secendary mital forging machires
e
operations on the mass production basis in very segment of industrios are rogardod as

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.96)
of great importance, As the rodult, the machise tools in the United States are said to have enie.
deir productivity
~50%
onhanced ther prodnerlviby by 30s% against that in the prewar days.
mas rolling
Further the development of ghtspeed uginecring of steel reated an 
incoroparatle
ipeenparable difference in the iron and steel indutstry betwoen apan and the Unitod st
 states. Not only that, but siso in the spinning induntry the marked dovelopment in
in
mechanization in the United States  said to havo brought about  disparity of about ten
years betwean Japan and the United states. Actually machines of the same type made in
the robpeftive countries differ groatly in the fapicity, For exuple, the compatison
C
r
in prospection speed in boring oil welis shows clemrly the disparity is in Japon the
boring speed of 1,000 metric o1l will calls for from 50 to 60 days on the average 
length
against that of only 20 daye for the samo ong of boring in tie United States.
Next, let us refer to the factory mamagement syatom.
The ftethods of manufacturing produfts of oqual quality on the mass produc-
factory
Europe
were
tion basis by carrying out seiontificel management  put under study in both Eug and
America frem some twanty odd years ago and it came to be established through the world war
II. As the result, the technologies with regard to production management became to be
regarded as of groat importance and in the United States the humber of personnel engaging in
design, inveatigation, research, etc. is gradually increasing among the technicians in all
factories. By these methods, theautomoblle, chomical, textile, metal indpstria

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.97)
the representative ones in the United states became to be managed quite rationallyd and su
succeeded in bettering quality ind reducing prices.
Tho factory management aystem in Japan shows, whon compared with that in the United
Statee, almbet a substantial difference Ity is gelearly noticed ifé only we imow the fact 
att
that the scientific control iss being neglected. We should liko also to draw your mrention
to how the steps for the enhinfement of lest efficiency in tho iron and oil refining industries
are insufficient. In industries in Japan are many what-we-call skilled laborers who still
resort to hunch and "knack" believing that such are more @ccurate than the scientific
a
control. Where there is no scientific control, there is no scientifio minagement.
(b) In what fields of tschnologies of the mining and manufactu ing industrios in Japan can
their backwardness be especially percoived?
Weakness
m
Weekense is salient in Raterials, after all.
The deceloppent of machinery is a prerequisite to the modornisation of industrios. The
bad quality of raw materials h/ave served as a stumblin: block to the development ofthe machiee
industry in this country.For example,the bad quality of steel which was a cause of the bad
welding cypacity and of hindering to do doejtrawing has played a great part in loworing
the performance capicity of the home-made mautomobiles; the improper quality of materials
used in chemieal machinory has aggravated the quality of caustic soda; the difference
in quality betweensilicon steel plates of Japan and the United states made has hindered
the manufacture of electric power generatore of big

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.97)
on the whole
capacity on the part of Japan; tho had quality of cast iron  thewhole ms been
responsible for the every shorteching found in wachinery made in this country.
However, the problem of the bad quality of materials may ie, when traced back,
atributed to the fact that the natural resources in Japan are limited.In many cases
it is almost mpos ible to expect the products f pet i poduats of qual
e
quality fpon the iron and steel industry which was compelled to use tco many different
Kinds of irof ores and coal due to tho reliance upon the raw Aatorials abroad.
Rather, the Japan's technologics which entble to operat& the blast furnaces by ispn
e
dispesing of the iron ores with various gradg aro applauded ss spocinl
tochnologies which no cthor countries can ttain.
Next will come the problem of disparity between technclogies of welding in
two countrios.
The Japan's technologies of shipbuilding attained the highest lovel of the
worid in the past, but her technologios are, during the blank period during and
after the war, said to have laggedffar bohind tho leveibf the United States,
finally Greating a distance corresponding to some 30 years between th technologies of
these two countries. This can be explaind in the fct that the amazing developmont 
in the, welding technologies in theUnited States succeeded in constructing an
all-welded ship which led tto establisk the ship'assembly

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.95)
production basis which by that time as considered to be impossible by the methed of
riveting. With regard to quality of welding rods and thoir manufacturing method, tiere
t
that the developient of the welding fechnologies is, along wth the improvoment in
quality of the materials, one of the most impertant problome to be imposed upon
the machine industry in Japan,
iles
Thirdly, backwardness in both synthetic redin and synthetic texteje industrios
must ba noticed.
The synthetic resin inustry which attend a remarkable progress during the
ten
past  yeare in countries contering on the United States is a Greation of n
R
e
entirely new mterial with widor usagee, matking an spock of the synthetic risin
new
In this country, however, the amount of output of a cortain how kinds of synthetio
plastis d vi chlorido hd cthere is oxtremely aall andmuch is Ieft to be
C
improved from the technological point of view in the raw matorials as well as in
the plastic materials.
The synthetic textiles in this country have, in spite of the much publicity
as a new look in these lines of products, many points to be technologically salved,
therefore, together with the problem of intorweaving and of dyestuffs, the
disparity in technologies batwoen the United states ond Japan is apparently too bagi

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.97)
Besides the above, the backwardness of the Jupin's tochnologies in every field of industries,
espeaially represented by the mechanitation of coal mines, oil refining, stamp forging,
the adoption of the aternating-ourrent calibrating boards, strong artificial silk for the
manufacturo of tires andcords, tho antomatieization in the process of manufacturing
cement, etc. can remartably be witnessed.
(c) Thon let us view from the standpoint of the balance in technologies betwoon
the respective industries.
The tecinologies of the electric power industry in this country reached the world 
level in early days du to tho economical advontage of that industry, but technologies of
pensafle
the civil ongineering works and of the machinery manufacture indis p for the
construgtion afélectric power generation plants cannet always bo said as being developed
in parallel with the technologies of the eloctric power industry. The electric machinery
do not make en exception to the low performance capacity resulting fron the Backwardness ie
in the insultating materials.
In such composite industries as ahipbuilding and automobile, the technalogies
between the above and the relevant industry are spocially closely related.

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.97)
machinos manufactnred outside the yards as wel? as the shipbottom pai ts are of inferfor
quality, it is iupossible to improve the shipbuilding techmologles after all. If the
raw. materials are of inferior quality, the accuracy of machine tools in not relialle and
tires wear and toar very rapidly, how can tho performance capac ity of Japan-made
autofobiles bo advanced?
In the spinning industry which has beek one of the leading industries in this
country, thebackwardnoss is conspicuous in the technologies of machinery industry
and in those concerned with the chemical industry such as djestuffs and caustio
soda and others, serving to loso ontirely the good roputation of the past.
As is clearly known in the above examplos, Japan's tedhnologies are, unlike
those in the United Statos tand in Germany of tho past which are and where on the
brium
equil level of development maintaining an equilimrm between the respective branches
of technologies, not proportionally balanced but are composed in one part of branches on
the world level and in tho other part of branches dis proportionalaly lagging behind
in dovilopment, thus forming a limping character of Japn's tochnologies. Eopocially
the existence of an tnormous number of the smaller enterprisos, and their character
of being a handicraft manufacturers, have ingreased theunbalance btween technologies
in industries in goneral. We must not forget the fact that the relatively lower r:
branches of technalogies have always served as, the bottloneck in the development of
the technological level in Japan.

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.96)
a limping
Such amping characte) of the techpologies is aided by the existonse of
a sectionalism in technologies, helping produco actual harme.
In this country, the classification of sciantific rasearches which formulated
only for the convenience of edujation and study was extended into the production l
field, crelting a definite sectionalism in all the branches of technclogiesor xamle 
For example, in the elecuvic powey industry, in spite of the importance of the t 
technologies concerned with machinery and civil engineering werks, the tochrlcians 
on electricity are only well treated, while, ontle contriry, in the nining induetry,
the technicians on metallurgy are well treated and the technicia de on clootrivity
and on machinery worse . Such phenomenon not only led naturally to hinder the smooth
coordination and cooperation batween the relevant branchest of the ixchnclogies,
but also caused to retard the development of technologies in such intermsdiate flsids  d
f produet of products as the chemical machinery as well as the cloctrie materials.
Such is found to be one of the biggest shortctmings in technolcgies over whivh we wust 
deeply think, now that today the over-all cooperation and coorqination have become the 
most indispensable factor for the development of technclogies in order to fallow

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.95)
the world technologies which hava developed to such a high degrec.
ct
(D) Here we sheuld Hike to refer to the listoric chara yer of Japan's technclogies.
The modern industries in our country achieved a rapic development, as  result of the 
introdustion of techndlogie fron the leading nations of
the worid That is to say, wo planned to transplant the modern techmolcgies by means of
of importation of forcign-made machinery, f prc ase of foreign  patente, o
invitation of foreign techuicians and of dispatch of Japanese technicians
abroard vnd by copying and improving the technologies with a view to serfing to lay a
observed by the Government and by theprivate enterprisers except for a shers period 
interrupted by ware. For thon the improvement of technologiosms was  synonys for  
the inoort nd cepying of foreign techmologies and, accordingly, no offorts were 
being exerted teward enhunciney the technclogical level by own capital and creation.
That is vhat ve call the copving character of Japan's teehnelegios and the
tondenay still ronins unchanged.
Tiking patont as an example, we find that, although Japan could in the past, be
on
boast of the ouaber of patent applieations in one average year being  of the
most ameng many landing countrios of the worlds tho contonta of the inventions were,
to our great rogret, usually very peer, being composed of the inventions which were 
but a copy and a 
follcu of foraign patents and yery few of those besct upon the

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.98)
creation which should become the pioneering factor for the development of technologies.
Such a scopying character gave ráise to tho following shortcomings:
The introdustion of foreign technologies naturally caused te Japen's
technologięs to ignore the connection with the conditions of natural resources.
we cannet deny the fact that tho bsorption without crititeism of the foreign
technologies which came to be deteloped along with the financial situation of the
respective homs ccuntries fcroed Japn to neglect to pay ant regards to the
dasadvantags of re. Iying upon the raw materials abrcard and the imported parts
of m&chinery, thereby resulting in not cnly checkting the fullest exploitation and
utilization of the domestic resources, but also in killing the creative wills
of the researchers as well as of the technifians intthis country.
Next, the fact that the industries in Japan were  started on the basis of

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.96)
the imported machinery fpom various leanding countrios in Europe and Americs
was responsible for the marked backwardness in tho machinery industry in Japan.
without saying that the ammunitions production contributed greatly to tho rapid
exparsion of the machine industry . The importation, however, of the principal
machino tools sorved to enfeebbe the foundation of the machine industay, and it is
this hackwardness in the machine industry that became the cause of
retarding tce dovloprent af all the brandhes of industries.
The copying chargacter not only leought about the limping chararter of the
technologies which we have stated soove, but also bowered the proper valuation
placed by the nation toward tochnologies of this country, we will touch upon
the problin in the fellewing column.
(E) We have altoady reterred to the fact that the proper valuation towerd the
e
tochnelcgles wae not plafed in a cclunn doaling with anteppris and tochniques,
Hero move conerete statement will be made
we will cite here an example to show how the tests and reseraches tare à
acc
profitable investment from the point of view of  momounting. We knoy a compuy

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.97)
- 8-
which invested abeut 3,000,000 yen as the total expenses for the research on
effective burning of low-grade coal was returned by a favorable rosult in
terns of a sum amounting to 14,000,000 yen during only one year. If the uso of
ee
a catalyst which is currently put under study at the Tokyo Industrial Laboratory
of the Agency of the Industrial Technology and Science can increase the yield
of synthetic ammonia by 50%, the total profit for this industry will amount to
an enormous sum of money.
In a nutsholl, it is necessary foraus to set a proper value on the relation-
ship of the tests and researches with the industries in general of which future
development depond all the time upon the results of the former.
If wo ccmpare such examples showing that in Japan, the inventions originated
by the Japanese where, as a result of being wont to the easiness of relying upon
isers
the technologias of foreign countries, used to be ignored by the onterprem
at hom: before their proper value was recoggized in foreign countries, showing

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.98)
that the practice to pay the proper reward for the technological guidance con-
ducted by a consulting engineer has not yet beon established, and showing tho
malpractice of not laveling sharp social adverse criticism against the infrenge-
ment of pitents with the social position of sciontific associations and the
advanced understarding of tha nation toward the standirdizition of cormoditios
in the United Stites, we have but to adait that the systems and the tmosphere
in the nation, both of which play an important rolo in the development of
tochnologius, re stili vory low on the part of Japan.
(F)
Now let us view tho presont situation of Japan's technologies fromthe standpoint
of practicability.
In post war Japan no technologies which are devoloped without paying regard
to the utilization of the domestic resources can be said to have no practicability.
Then, is the ltilization of the resources mado to the satisfactory dogree?
No, many unsytisfactory oxnples also can ba cited in connoction with that point.
For exuaple, the natural gas is still remained unutilized, as it gushos cut, it
night and the waste gas frem the smelting furnices or from the chonical plants
is yet to be utilized furthor.
On the centrary, the technologies of prior flotation procers of mixed graded
ores, of low temperaturo distillation of pon-coking coal, of manufacturing "conlito"
from Bojun Coal, of subatituting Bojun coal fer beavy coking coal and of manufaeturing

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.91)
pule tire gh sulphate of lime procsss from indismus timber os tie raw material,
can be listed is the criginil field of which tio tee melugice  Japan can be
bonst, suggestine, the way timt they shoule follow beneefurth. Hure urises the
poblen of promoting applaad tochacleg. In suis country there has hitherto
been a tendeney of placiny more ouphisis upon the basie resooreh than upen the
ipplied technelogy ane the prnctieel rese areh ms reyre is lower in the scientific
value. Ana the ctivities f pcievtifie nssociaticns vere lso developed centering
maanly on the bisic rose arehee. The fict shat the recessity of the promotion of
the applied technologies and their industrializati m vas pointed out by the
Scientific Advisory to tho Mitional Acndomy of Science of the urited States will
indicate that the Advisory neticed that such shortcomings in Japan's technologies
had retarded tho advancement of the tecimelogies.
(G) Lastly, we will pifs cut several points which are considered as merits in Japent 

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.88)
JECLOLOES.
The ability to copy and absorb easily the techmologi's of other londing
countries shous the strong digostive. power of our country. The fact that the
synthetic monin industry in this country empluys  muthl  mnufacture
origi atoa in Japn in parall.1 with the methods w ch vere iported frem virious
comtries of the wemed and were digosted te fit here serves as an example showing
the power upon vaick e hve touched in the above.
The couplotion oi  p ip with  single propeller is the chipboilding industry,
viricus teelnelosical omlts in the clcetric pover indnstry, the wylo precess
in the aleohel p neP tetopine onterprise vol many thers are tis exaaplos of the
techpolcsies of Jipan weach vere superier in the post, of course, the blink
perand for these soveral yoars tas cos to pake us fuel thas the technolcpies in
Japan loave been lost une ivnced frem the world tecimelogien, but the results of
the vast shew that the tuchnolegical pbility  Jipna vas unusunlly distanguishing.
Ie ave aiready stited in (F! how the tuchmclories of this co ntry his attained
pon
the criginal developrent in cunnee ion with tho utilization or the togre domestic
ro3ourcos.
bestoved
with the ability like the above, if our country was tentwed vith richor
resources as in the tnitud States, we can well ixigine that the present technolo-
gical level of our country would bave boen much hipher.

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.97)
It wust be noticed here that here his already appeared a sign of vigorcus
teehnelogical activities in these days. For exanpl., the fact that a numbor
of patent applications attaincd already the fourth rank in the world in 1947
and that quite mang tecinicians desire to nake public the results of their rosearches
every tine a meeting of a sciertific association or other mesting to maks public
the results of the researches wis held indicate the potontiol power of the toch-
nologiss of this country. Especially the fict that this country jumped up to
one of the leading penicillin producine countries of the world in output
within several years fellowing the sur endor is a typical sign of the potentinl
power of Japan's technologies.
For teferences in judging the genoral technological level of our country,
we have thus attemptad an analysis from the sovon points of view ns hhoum above.
Following the above, this Raport states in details the present situatiom by
dndustries of tochnologies of tha mining and mande

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.98)
country in Chapter 3 and clarifies in Chapter 4 the present situation in six
mattors concerning the tests and researchos, patont system, industrial standar-
dization works, scientific associntions or societics, tochnclogical orginisations
is the basis for the training of the technologies of the mining ind manufacturing 
industries and finally gives a conclusion as follows:
V.
Conclusion
ti
The Japan's teclnclogical lovel dropped drascally keeping pace with the
devastition of quipment resulting from tiv war. Since then, although the industries
as a whole have rehibilitated, there still aro several segnents of industries which
have been forced to romain far below the prewar level.
On the other hand, the werld technologias have, especially those of tho Unitod
States with which we have compared those of Japan, achieved a startling progross
since the tormination of the war. We have plready touched upon in this toxt
the marked dispnrity in levels between thoso two countrius. Although tho lack
of matorials compelled us to give up to compare with Japan, the techuologies in
the European countries may have also reached, we believe, the considerable high level.
The main problem does not, however, lie in the prosent backwirdness of the
technologies but in the tempo of the development in the future. In view of the
past results, we know that thə teclnological ability in Japan was unusually
distinguishing.

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.90)
We do not doubt that, i vury one of the natien recognizes properly the
2
Javan's technologies and does net spare to pake Srarty understanding and coopera-
tion, the technologicil lewel in Japan will suddenly start to advance nd that
the day of the nchievenent f the coveted objeetive efeconomic selfreliance can
never be far behind.

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.83)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
527
8
FNA
com
ISON OFFICE
Re^
ROM:
USPOLAD, Tokyo.
ato of
nailing:
Docember 1, 1949
DEPR
TH
Doc. 5,1949
70:57 am
-otion t i med to -NIt
Secroery f
stton maken te at
ACTTON
vasi.ing.
1.PC
00m7196
12//6/49
l wi  te ecased Novembee 1949. by Public Information
Soneral Yeadqusrtere (0 s.) Fey Dast Command, Tokyo, wnder head-
894.60
hile
ho  Iropey ounced today that SA
ha ats tve o man med sms to reswme operations be
caase
wa seia n de  econorde recovery
0
862.60
Po t veson  pomee of firns which were taken
2
Imo tect e the ceeapaton on the basie that they were
owd a  lot y y mane wse property was sub
894.50
mesug he  sane  phe rims from cecupation
6
cu stet the ivil Fropert: Custe ten seic that the reasons for
the re aase vere sworola Ir pee ly, the peontry of theee fims
ino ti cir o mer rislds o endervor will cssiet Japan in her
eesnosse vecovery. It ses leo esplained that by being penmitte
to hatcle thsir cum straira, the released firms could gain a de-
res cf colvotep which will ts decirable when it becomes necese
sary tc ligu date ves ed interoete in these firms.
The roheased fras sdll ope ate under serutiny of cccupa-
bi I  thorities. Phrey are Coshi Saisha Wankler and Gompany,
an sxpert-Laport fairer Leybeld  K, an engineering concern
enl seles ageney vmich also acts rs an iuport-expoct ageney;
10
lHe.a (t sel Ka she, real cotate insestors, Standard Braid and
E
Peodeer Smpany. ao duport-ecgort rarm end Thordoen Gooht Kaime?
on borremen cone shfer ie rlated vdth the Standend
2
2p
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.
.:A

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.93)
JNCOMING ÁIRGRAM
DIVISION
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNNÇATI
RANCH
JAN-31950
2
PARTMENT OF SIATE
BA
sctlon Assigred to
ACTION: FE
3029
INFO
on Taken
DOR
E
1/4/50
FROM:
USPOLAD,
DCL
ITP
UNCLASSIFIED
Date of
bolNA
OFD
mailing:
December 23 194?
OLI
lut
CIA
home of officer
file
Rec'd: Dec. 27, 194912:08
AAN
Secretary of State
Direction to Do/R
Washington.
A-374, December 16, 1929.
Reforence is made o  Mission'8 despatch no. B48 Dod
894.60/12-
5, 1949, entitled "Tre   sion of Technical white Paper' Ioou
by inistry of International arads mnd Industry." Pollowing new
iton paleased Decem or 15, 1919, y he Public Information Ofrie
(U. S) Far East Cormurd,  u,  der the heading "Japanese Teph
ni cal White Papert Ceyn.:
"the pr    itance of improved tech
nology in rinin a musty in Jacan set forth in the
Hini stry of nal Trade and Industry's Technical
white Paper v co snd d sotay by Robert Y. Grant,
Chier of sCa: s ning and Geology Division of the Na-
5
tural Resoure.
"Hain poiats  sed in the Technical White Paper
were:
1) To co pte in vorlt wmarkets Japan must produce
superior conmoditie which dem nd the application of
advanced technolgy d in hich Japan is lacking.
2) Japanese i sry bs been reluctant to stand
the expense of resee  but as instead taken the
easier road of cutt g axpenses and personnel in diffi-
cult times.
3) fhe inereass of resources through technology
is equivalen to nvion or territory, and clearly
suggests the re course or a peaceful Japan.
4) Through tes mology also lies the road to ele-
vation of st ode d er living, which in turn would in-
FIL
crease the do e te pacret rer goods.
工
PERMANENT RECORD:COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central fles with notation of action taken.

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.90)
Tokgo' s 374,
Doeeeber 16, 1949.
—2
5) The engineering consultant has not been properly
rewarded in Japan in the past. The emphasis instead has
bean on basic research rather tan applied technology.
6) fith a full appresiation of the importance of
technologicnl. advancoment, Jrgn can perhaps achieve eco-
nonic selx-sufficiency.
wThe conclusien presented are in clcee sccord with the findings of
Naturar  urer ction personnal and o expert consultante who have
investip lcd the va anose mining iniuetuy. According to Grant, it is
hoped thet tos Vinietry will iaplonent the policies presented by pro-
viding c lded sup ort to the ageneies coneorncd with mining teehnolo
in Japn, suc  the Mining Prcan i Coal roduction Bureau."
SEBALD
500
CHBoehringer:lee
UNCLASSIFID

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.94)
MINGAIRGRAM
ENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNCATIONS AND RECORDS
DIVISION:OF
NORTHEASTNMAN AFFAIRS
294
JANT 1950
nution Assigneg to .
FROM:
USPOLAD, Tokyo.
Date of
wailing: December 30, 1949.
Rec'd:Jan 4 1950 10:24 am
NA
ACTION
Action Office Symbul.
Weshington.
IFO
1399, Lcmber 27, 19
DCR
DCL
Following news il relassl Lesember 23, 1949, by Publio Informe
ITP
tice, General leur, (U..) Far East Command, Tokyo, undor
OFD
s' "Lift Allocations Contrele frem Industrial Commoditios:"
OL!
CIA
"Eighteen out of thi y atgcrics of industrial commo-
AAN
dilies under allocations coctrol in Japan will be freed in
94.60/12-2749
PC3
wiole or in part fr om such re:triction Jan. 1, 1950, in 
seping action ansusced toly by SCAP.
"Raw wool, rubber, canunt, lunter, all hard and bast
fibers and manufacturca tlicreef, somi-finished steel pro-
duets end selected chendicals, non-ferrous metals, hides and
skiua, paper and puly, are among the major items which will
bo frsoly aveilalle for purchase without allocation corti.
ficatcs after the turn of the year.
"ith this cticn coming directly on the heels of
successive de-con rol woc sures during 1949,' Calvin Verity,
Deputy Chief of JP's Lconomic and Scientific Section de-
clared, 'Japan io rapilly approaching the ideal of all demo-
cratic nations of a fra entorpriso competitive system with
artificialitics rumovei. Phere is probably no country in
the world confrouted with oquivalent postwar econode exd-
geneics which is pore free of controls than Japan today.'
"The de-allccalion announcement being made offectivo
by Japanose government modification of a dozen ordinances
and instructione, follows closely recent major measures of
decontrolling coal, silk, copper, vegetables, and fish, and
comes after a succession of actions lifting price controls
from 250 prototypee and more than twenty-five thousand in-
dividual 1teme during 1949.
JAN 10 19
"'In general,' Verity obsorved, 'items considered sub-
ject to de-allos tion are those the supply of which domes
tically or through import has became adequate or can be
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—Thls eopy must be returned to DC/R eontral Mes wilths netatlen of
UCD

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.83)
Tokyo's 1-375
Deceaber 27 1949.
tote wathin a  o me.
 of
tionhe added.
ions system un
 is ould canse ither
ntiy effecting the
 sontial users of
everment or pro
coordineted with com
basis on Jan 1, and
lirication cf trade
 Parther to encourage
esures nueded to ra-
fncilitave efficiens
robuár  on order for produo-
rs lng the
rother fr or the
aie stabrlication Pro
he Japese peopls
 sssee tiey may look
a in the wonths which
SLBALD
510.7
CtOcehrigerrLee
