894.30 Naval Affairs. Navy Naval Vessels. Naval Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., October 12, 1931 - December 6, 1932 (File 763)
ID: 894.30-763   Pages: 138   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.30-naval-affairs-navy-4
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
893.00 P.R.Nanking/44
FOR
Despatch #-
FROMNanking
Peck
)DATED
00t.12,1931.
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Strength ofnthe Japane se Navy: Gives info mation
on -, as reported by the vernacular press.
(Copy attached)
fpg

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.82)
Tas vuamooules press repor ted thet the satel streaghs
et the Jepemose eay uaà navy was epprostmately forty
3
0
millions, and that aooording to a atatiatleal raport at
the Japamese Haval Dopartmont eompiled on Gaptamber 1, les9,
Jopan bod the following war veseeler
Dettleahna

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.84)
一
thet suah mumors had, for the precent, no foundntion.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.89)
-
Glegsification
Muaber Diaplacoment (tons)
Battleships
6
191,880
Battle eruieers
4
115,000
Cruisers
195,755
Coast Defenae Shipe
9
81,456
Cunboats
11
5,370
Airplane Carriere
4
71,595
Tarpodo Depot ships
≈8.780
Torpedo Boets
3
19,685
Destreyers
106
115,995
Torpedo Chasers nd destroyers
24
11,056
ubmrines
20
72.036
Total
270
863.744
The Ministry of  oreign ffire wus under coustant
atteek for its allegec weakmese in handline diplomutie
megotiations. On the morning of optember 23, one or two
thousand students, said to be mostly fros high eduentional
institutions in Ah nghai, ttaeke the Foreign Orrioe,
injured ir. C.T.  ang, -inister of oreign ffnirs, and
dispereed the starf, on scoount or resentment at the weak
poliey nd derests sufferec at the Longue or Netions
Couneil. On the followins day, the Freign Minister tendered
his resigmation, whioh wao cecepted.
 resolution was adopted
at the reguler meeting or the Centrl Politieal Couneil to
appoint Dr. Sao-Ke lfred Sze, the Chinese Minister at London,
to museved Er. C.T. Wang as the Foreign Minister.
In Nanking it seemed poesible that unless the Japamese
troopé were withdrewn in the noer future, there were possi-
bilities of China's deolaring wer against Japam. This
pessibility and the publlostion in the newspapere of a
telegram fros Chu Teh and Mao Tae-tang, two motorious heade
of the Cammmnists in Kisngei, stating that they would lead
these wmder their control to fight sginst Japan, gave rise
to rueers that the National Govermment had desided to ee-
operate witk Soviet Mussie in - jaint atteek upen the
Japamese trospe. Ths leesl cuthosities, however, elaimed

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.30/72
793.94/4572
SEE
FOR.#3104
FROM
Shan he i
(Cunningnam) DATED Fep. . 1932
TO
NAME
1—1127
o r o
REGARDING:
translation of letter fron Mayor of Shan nai concerning
alleged invasion of Cnapei by Japanese Navy.
1s
2

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.79)
8104
Ameriean Conmulate Seneral,
Shanghal, Chima, Fobruary's, 1952.
ubjest: Japanese Sevol Aesivities.
A
I  r t r o tel of
February 3, 6 pos. traammlttins the trenelation
of e comeunleatiom cato vbre ry , wae, from
the Mayor of the uni tpallty ? snhai. G morel
To-ohem wish re rd t te allege lnvaeien of
1
Chapei by he Jmpenese Havy. Phere in traramitted
hererith a trmalstln of the at r in saesti m. to
gother vit a tr ne ati t f a prvi uo letter rrom
the Mayor dated J nuary me, :ose. on the soee subjeet.
81
A sopy of t in oftleo's moknosledgment of thee letters
is ale: onclosed.
eupestfully yuars.
Ewin . Canninghm.
Amerieam Conmal General.
Enslosures!
1- Copy of lottes from Mayur 
dated Februasy A, 1938.
B- Copy of Lester Sras Myor 
dated Fummery 28, 18se.
A true copy of
syy Copy or lotter to Mayoru
the sigpad ori-
dates Pabreary 8, 1ose.
P

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.78)
Ameriean Conmul Gemeral et Shanghal, Chine, dated February
. lo. on the subjt:Japanoe Nete tivities."
SOEX
Lester "ros u Te-chem Kayor f she unicipelity of
Shanehal. to er n vsu Smeral. haneel.
ebrusry 8, 193e
Ree 1ed ebrury Srd m.
roee r Falh rd Reetm
t Hosti ito y Japan.
It i a  tter f record thnt I hav cnieatd
ath you on the autjoot of invamin f Chapet ay the
Jepemeee mavy. ubeequent y, ith a view to premerre-
slon f ponee and avoidenee of hostllitles, your ood
solr and the Britieh Coumul Genere lavited the Chineme
and Japaneee autsorill cs aw well as the commsnaers of
forsim defense forces so a esnferemee et the remidenée
of the Britian Con oul Sehere un J mary alat, when
after the eomander f the  itle defnse oree me ested
the mye nd oane f aveldins  rliet  tweeo the op
pi i  wr t  
mere  uid a th Japmese covermment for ttr
tloms in tnree cayet thmt, in the evont af the Japenese
poverent bein wsle to seeet the s estes ters.
this Muniel alis, she id wees te l atr otione of my eoverm
mant and tit. ring t orid wen itretio are to
be uht, neither part mhid atto te tr. hme
are all en reeord whte to opan to taspeetlon. luse
that cosferenee sas he. however, t  Jap heee troops lave
repratedly st teeted  e Cmese Fereee sy surprise. This
state of arfsirn ees lnaed until 2.0c p.n. today whem
my friee ree ive sdemly e telsphone meege from the
Japmse Con lete Ornere rormias e of the Imability
urte Jpe wermt t ept t  tems
as indieated mbs ve. him as eeuced me no lit le astemlcb
meat. Furt ermore, t e ap nese troope resmed o fecsive
on the Chimese orees in chapel even an h r before the
Japamese Conmulste Coneral'e mstlee wus resieved y this
Aumleipality and teey arbitrarily bombarded that aree by
the ume or airplemes. Imammwh es Japen has violates her
pledge md resumed ofrensive regarálese or ths mafety of
the lives and property cf che Cninese people and foreigm
residents withis tho Kunicipslity of Shumghel, it ie the
govermment or Jepan thet ahould unäertake all rempensibi-
lities. Havins lodges a protest with the Japanese Comul
Gemeral, I have to bring the forogoin to your attentior.
It is trusted thst you will take mote eeoord ingly ead
uphold justiee.
()T
Mayor
 S. Qummingm, Esquire,
of

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.71)
Ameriean Conaal General st Shasghal. Chine. datee February
S, lose, on she subjeet: "Japuaeoe Seve! Aetivitics."
S
A lester crom u Te oam Maper cf the mmtctoality
of Sanchal to meriean Consul Genmral hanehal.
Jamuary , l98.
hmt: Japne mvee ivities.
17:
 J
info ou t r n lo el
vtoprt
theGol ee fr paet
depe slr  rendy pr lrn
tn y ropy o tro  s ri 
. y
of r  tyh  l
sor a dre p volyl
 leaet a elr t Conrder  sn t
Japsne xplthary lootoirieti n rd
brekfly a followe:
 v
rpoibitrrer
rder by
tr
milltrreee.
r th
Chine  il wit drw se soon as posmi le all
the heeo treope  their oetlle erpre
Subentlyt 1le in e emne th
valie afet res roo tvee in fere sior fro chepel to
the frese tland roroeef  JapeneeMvy
had commmed i dependent i it ry oper tions in thet
aletriet snr were laune iae ate n the chinese territory.
laee The Jepnneee Coal ner hes  roady pressed
satisfeeti n wien the reply f thie unicipallty, the
abve irtin  l f a s den by the Jap
mavy la aotonim ine, indee. t is Japan thst at ula be
held res onsible for bremat  f pesee wnd disturbanee of
loeal orler. In add ttan to fi ins s cmplhstie prolest
witt the Conmul Gemere: For Japar.   ave  trommmlt this
let ar is the hope thet yu will faailierize youroelf with
the entente shereef sn otome for justiee. Your sourteey
in thie rouerd wuld be appresiuted.
(ied u r-h, Myor
.Cigguire
Amerteam Conaui Gemeral,
Comparee we
72

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.68)
8104
Enslesure No. 3 to despater o.
C
Amertean Couaul Jemersl at hanvhaT, China dated Pebrumry
6. l, n theeet
Jp tivi"
QORY
anat. C ine, obrary s. 132.
121
shl
ooeptir
nor
0p1
Cord w

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.3073
SEE
894.00 P.R./51
FOR #517
FROM
Japan
Forbes
) DATED
Mer.10.1932
TO
NAME
1 1127
REGARDING:
appointment of Admiral Prince Hiroyasu Fushimi as
Navy Chief of Staff.
1s

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.92)
1II.
INTURNAL CITICAL ACTIVITIES:
Appointment of Prince Pushimi as Navy
chier or taff.
Admiral rinoe Miroyasu Fushimi was appoiated
Mavy Chief of staff on February 2, to suede d ndmiral
Naomi Taniguohi. dmiral Taniguohi 1s maid to be u-
popular within Navy oiroles because of his support,
during the London Haval onference, of dairal Takarabe
who favored the eonclusion of the treaty. However,
his resignation and the a pol tment or Prinee Pushimi
are generally interpreted as moves on the part of
the davy to strengthen its influenoe at Court and to
plaee the Mavy be ond popular oritiois. Hls appoint-
ment had been predioted sinoe the appointment in
December, of Frinse Kanin to be Army Chier of Staff.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
893.00 P.R./51
SEE
FORDespatch.#1458
894.30/74
China
Perkins) DATEDMar.30.1932
FROM
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
During hostilities at Shanghai, foreign military
observers were amazed at the poor showing made by
the Japanese, and the feeling seems to prevail that
Japanese army and navy have been considerably over-
rated.
jr
7

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 22, 1932.
SKHT
Riga's despatch No. 652 of August 20.
1932, reports that the Minister has received
from an English official source a statement
to the effeot that there are rumors that the
Japanese are not maintaining the status quo
in naval facilities and fortifications in
their Pacific insular territories and
mandated islands, as under the Washington
Treaty, but that they are accumulating at
certain spots stores of fuel and mines and
are preparing seaplane and submarine bases.
The English official source stated that it
would be very glad to learn what the United
States knows about this matter.
If the British want information of this
character it should be requested through the
British Embassy at Washington and not in this
roundabout fashion. I suggest that no
instruction be sent to oui Minister at Riga
as he is not the proper channel for the trans-
mission of such information and as there is an
element of danger of leakage of any statement
which the Minister might be given for trans-
mission to the "English official source"
mentiomed in the despatch. To be able to say
he has received nothing from his Government in
this regard is, I feel, the most satisfactory
position for the Minister.
LES:REK

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
LEGATION OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
NO. 652
Riga, Latvia, AUG 20 1932
Subject:
Japanese Fortifications in Pacifio Insular
Territories.
SEPE 52
345
F/G
894.
EASTE
OPY INP-6000
DEPARTMENT OF STAPE
894.30/75
2l
cluformol
moike t
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1a32.
SEP- 1932
CONFIDENTIAL
Department of State
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
0014 193
Washington, D.C.
Sir:
I have received, in confidence, from an English
official source of information a statement reading
as follows:
"By the Washington Treaty the Japanese
were bound to maintain a status quo in naval
facilities and fortifications in most of
their Pacific insular territories and man-
dated islands. There are rumours that they
are not maintaining this status quo but aocu-
mulating at certain spots stores of fuel and
mines and are also preparing seaplane and sub-
marine bases. Through your American connec-
tion you should endeavor to asoertain pri-
vately what the United States know about this
matter. They would probably be very glad to
enlighten us unoffioially."
I

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
I await any instructions which the Department
may feel at liberty to give me respecting the above
matter.
Respectfully yours,
Robert P. Skinner.
(In quintuplicate)
710 Japan-U.S.
RPS/1r
4
Receed

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.95)
LEGATION OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 839
Riga, OCT 6 1932
Subject:
Japanese Fortifications in Pacific Insular
Territories.
F/
HS
DEPPPAE
894.30/76
ÉASAIRS
O NOISIO
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
OCT 19 1932
Department of State
CONF IDENTIAL
0CT 29 1932
FOLED
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
894.30
75
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to this Legation's despatoh
No. 652, of August 20, 1932, Confidential, and to repart
that the English souroe in this city, from which the state-
ment therein referred to reached this Legation, has been
asked by telegraph by its head-office in London, as to
whether

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
whether the information will be forthooming. The third
sentence of the statement was: "Through your American
connection you should endeavor to ascertain privately
what the United States know about this matter."
Respectfully yours,
Filey lake
Felix Cole
Charge d'Affaires a. i.
820 Jap.
(710 Jap-U..)
(In uintuplicate).
FC/mhg
JM

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE500.A15 a.4/1655
FOR
Report No.165
FRoM ...Naval Attache
) DATEDNOV.4,1932
Jap an
TO
NAME
1 1127
OPO
REGARDING:
Report on Jap nese pro osal for naval disarmament.
7
7
尹

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
December 23, 1932.
EHD:
MMH:
The attached text in translation from
an article (sent to O.N.I. by the Naval
Attache at Tokyo) from the (Japanese)
Diplomatio Review of November 15, 1932,
by Captain Sekine, a Naval officer, whose
statements reflect the opinion of many
senior Naval officers, states that Japan's
naval policy is purely a negative and
defensive one; that the Navy wishes to
provide and maintain a naval force which
is sufficient to insure that no naval
power of any kind which has plans of
aggression can come to the Western Pacific
and occupy it completely without being
destroyed.
The article is not of suf-
ficient interest to read.
894.30
LÉS: EMU

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.97)
Ailo
Division of
REDETVED
tat
DEC 1932
C23 1932
DIVISION OF
Departmont of State
Extracts from an article appearing in the Diplomatic Review
of November 15 (Japanese) by Captain Sekine.
What reasons are there for the existence of a Navy? Does
it exist for National Defense, for sea fighting or for the purpose of
safeguarding commeroe? There has been much written in regard to this
but recently it would appear that in Europe and Americe the Navy is said
to exist "for the purpose of preserving and assisting National Policy"
The "raison d'etre" of our Army and Navy is to maintain and preserve to the
utmost our country's policies in a defensive and protective sense. Or to
put i another way, our Army and Navy exists for the purpose of protecting
894.30/78
the nation.....
The greatest menace to our country at present is the anti-Japan-
ese propaganda fostered in foreign countries; while, outside of China it is
not carried out to the extent of being unlawful, the anti-Japanese propaganda
of China appears to be different in that it is based or founded on their
(Chinese) own peculiar "anti-foreignism". Because it is aimed at the country
which has the most vital interests in China....
...it is difficult to
foretell just on whom the anti-Japanese feeling of today in China will be di-
reeted. The aim of our country was, for some twenty years, to aid in the so-
called "advancement of China" but the net result was to merely increase the
anti-foreign feeling in China......
...The Englishman Brand has said
that "the Washington Conference resulted in making worse internal affairs
of China as well as her relations with the world being made worse". As a
matter of fact China has, year by year since the orld War, become more and
more disorganized.
The Powers
whioh viewed the sudden bursting out of the trouble in Manchuria and Shanghai
were surprised and suspicious but the situation of today was brought about
byt the atmosphere end conditions mentioned previously. We were discredit-
od, we were losing our rights and our very existence was threatened, so there
was nothing else for Japan to do. We could not endure more. There was no
course open to us but to exercise our right of self-protection........
The second menace to Japan at present is the bad propaganda emanating abroad.
According to the American professor Treat, Mr. Witte, the Russian envoy at the
Portsmouth Conference attacked the Japanese military olique and maintained that
"Japan's error was the military clique, and Japan's bad feature was in
becoming military and not citizens" and this brought on the anti-Japanese feel-
ing in America....
. but Mr. Witte's pro
paganda was to alienate the military from the people. As this sort of stuff
emanated from foreign countries after the peace treaty (of Portsmouth), foreigners
who did mot understand the situation in Japan blindly believed it and thought
that there was a special military class in Japan, who were opposed to the people
The third menace is the unjust suspicion and misunderstanding of Japan.
This, as had the anti-Japanese feeling, and bad propaganda, has become very
aetive.....
Japan has mot the slightest intentions of closing the Open Door in China.
DEC 2
As regards any legal or lawful plans or intentions of development, they are
always weloomed by us. Any one who thinks that this is a closing of the
Open Moor is completely wrong.....

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
as regards the policy toward anti-Japanese feeling in China - the Japanese
in the past havs taken a friendly attitude toward Chine but this failed
.................. the Chinese became more arrogant .....
............ Nevertheless if we say it is necessary to employ force in
China, it certainly doesn't mean a militaristic policy nor a policy of
great force but it means to advance by a policy of Imperial Justice.
And as we have a common language and common traits we can advance mutually,
removing the mistrust between us............
If it be aaked what in the past has been the naval policy? It was not
clearly and definitely set forth but i we evaluate the statements of the
various Navy Ministers in the Diet it was about as follows: "To build and
improve a force capable of carrying out offensive and defensive oporations
against a force of a major naval power capable of crossing to the Western
Pacifie" In the vernacular of America today a "one country standard". However
this polioy is limited only to the case where one country is concerned and
renders us safe dn that assumption only. It has been the opinion that com-
binations of nations in excess of two that would unite against Japan are
extremely scarce and it might be stated that with Japan in the right and
on the defensive, the Powers are not likely to molest us. This  ay be felt
to be a very insecure feeling of safety but it is the afm of our Navy not
to prepare for more than this.
In preparing our navy against naval power or the Great fowers
the Imperial Japanese Navy muet not under any circumetances aim at any
particular Power. Consequently we may state that the Policy of the Imperial
Japanese Navy is about as follows:
To provide and maintain a naval force which is sufficient to insure
that no naval Power of any kind which has plans of aggreasion can come
to the Western Pacific and occupy it completely without losing her identity
as a Naval Power (Translator(s Note: The language is vague but he apparently
intends to convey a veiled warning that any Power which would advance to the
Western Pacific would lose her identity as a naval power i.e. be completely
destroyed).
As thia naval policy as atated above is purely a negative and
defensive one it 1s not necessary to include in the composition of our Navy
offensive weapons of any description. For this reason we agree to the abolition
of airplane carriers and do not agree with the phan of abolishing submarines.
Note: Captain Sekine is an instructor in the Naval Wer College and
is also attached to the Naval General Staff. This author
has written several articles in the past and his statements
while not official may be considered as authoritative and
reflect the opinion of many senior naval officers.

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
May 8, 1933.
MMW
Mukden's despatch of April 11, 1933
re the establishment of an Imperial
Japanese Naval Office in Manchuria.
Consul General Myers transmits a copy of a press
report entitled " Navy will establish bureau at
Hainking" published in the OSAKA MAINICHI of March
31, 1933.
An Imper ial Ord inance of March 29, 1933 has
organized the present Japanese naval mission in
Manchuria as the Imperial Japanese Naval Office.
The Manohuria Naval Office shall have charge of all
" affairs concerning the defence of the Manohukuo
seacoast and rivers, and simultaneously, it shall
be in charge of the guard thereof".
Consul General Myers states that Japanese
officials at Mukden are perturbed over the
obvious slip which occurred in the draft ing of the
above quoted article. The article should have stated
that the Naval Office should cooperate with the
"Manchukuo" government in all affairs relating to
the defence and polic ing of the seacoast and rivers
of "Manohukuo".
The Japanese press reports that the "Manchukuo"
government has placed orders in Japan for nine police
and naval boats for coastal patrol duty.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.95)
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. AND M. I.D.
No.
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
Mukden, Manchuria, April 11, 1933.
WECTERN
MAY
MTF
SuBJECT: Imperial Japanese Naval Office in
copy n FE
Manc hur ia.
F/HS
File
ym
THE HONORABLE
ASSISIAN
S
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
WASHINGTON.
894.30/79
I have the honor to enclose herewith a copy of
my despatch No. 739 to the Legation at Peiping, China,
dated April 10, 1933, on the above subject.
Respectfully yours,
bele
M. S. Myers
American Consul General.
MAY 2 3 1933
FILED
Enclosure:
Copy of despatch No. 739
to the Legation at Peiping.
830
HTW

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
No. 739.
AME ICN CONSULAT GNERL
Mukden, Manehuria, pril 10, 1933.
SUBJECT:
Imperial Japanese Naval ffice in
Manchurie.
The Honorable
Nelson rusler Johnson,
merican Minister,
eiping, China.
Sir:
I have the honor to state that the Japanese
naval mission in Manchoukuo was reorganized as the
Imperial Japenese Naval Office in Manchuria on pril
1, 1933, in accordance with an Imperiel rdinance
promulgeted on Merch 29, 1933. It has been learned
from a Japanese official source that the funetions
of this office which in its sphere are similar to
those exereised by the Kwantung Army heve heretofore
been exercised by the Neval Mission. This mission
which has been in Manohuria since the latter part
of 193l has prior to the issuance of this ordinance
had no legal basis. This office is looated at Hsinking.
1/-
A copy of a press report regarding the establish-
ment of this office which appeared in the OSAKA
MAINICHI of Mareh 31, 1933, is enclosed herew1th.
The regulations given therein comprise all the
important provisions exeept possibly article 3
which states that a fleet shall be attaohed to the
offiee

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
office when it is deemed necessary. The other
provisions (articles 8, 9 and 11 to 15) relate to
office organization.
Rear-dmirel Seisaburo Yobayashi who hes been
heed of
he mission hus been designa ted us the
Commander of the Naval Office and Captein . Ito
and Lieutenant-Commancer asaki us his first and
second assistents respectively. The dmiral as
head of the Naval ffice will be directly respon-
sible to the mperor of Japen accordin to rticle
five of the regulations. In e list of staff appoint-
ments as preseribed in article ten which was published
in the loo 1 press, the nemes of the principal
officers of the rovisional Neval efence orce on
the ungari iver, of which Captoin . Tekede is
Commander, were also iven.
Attention is o lled to article two of the
regulations which gives to the Naval Office full
charge of affairs concerning the defence of the
seacoast and rivers and to st te that local Japanese
officials were consider bly perturbed over the
obvious slip which occurred in drafting.
Imperial Ordinances oannot be corrected it is
expected that an offioial interpretation of the
artiole in question will be issued. In order that
due regard to appearances and to the letter of the
Japen-Manehoukuo Protocol may be given, the artiole
should state that the office shall cooperate with
the Manohoukuo Govermment in all affairs relating
to the defenee and policing of the seacoast and
rivers

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
rivers of Manchoukuo.
In this conneetion it may be mentioned that
the Japanese press recently reported that the "Man-
choukuo overnment" had placed orders in Japan for
nine police nd navel boats for coastal patrol
duty. The reports state that they comprise two
200 ton boats, four 45 ton boats and three of 10
tons. The present Manohoukuo coest 1 fleet, it
is understood, consists of only three otor botts
which are st tioned at Yingkow.
Respectfully yours,
..Myers,
mericen Consul enerel.
Enclosure:
1/- Copy of press report entitled "Nevy ill
"stablish Bureau at isinking" published
in the OSAA  INICHI of Merch 31, 1933.
Original and one copy to Legation.
Five copies to Department.
One copy to mbassy, Tokyo.
One copy to Consulate ener l,Herbin.
830
MSM:mhp
wyp
Au of
the signed orig-
inal.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
nelosure to despatoh No. 739 of M. S. Myers,
American Consul General, Mukden, Manchuria, dated
April 10, 1933, to the Legation, Peiping, on the
sub ject "Imperial Japanese Naval Office in Manchuria".
SOURCE: OSAK. MAINICHI,
OSAKA, JAPAN.
March 31, 1933.
COPY
NAVY ILL ESTABLISH BURL U AT HS INKING
Rear-dm. Kobeyashi, Now Representative
to be Commander
The Japanese Navy hes decided to open the "Chuman
Kaigun-bu" (Manchuria Naval Bureau) at Isinking on
April 1, to replece the present special naval delega-
tion in the Manehukuo capital. Regulations govern-
ing the organization and function of the new bureau
were promulgated on Mereh 29 to take effect immediately.
It is understood that Rear- dmiral Seisaburo
Kobayashi, present head of the special naval delega-
tion in Hsinking, will be appointed the Commander of
the bureau, while Captain Selichi Ito, present chief
of staff under Rear-admiral Kobayashi, will also be
attached to it.
Rear-ndmiral Kobayashi, following the assumption
of his new office, will be in charge of all the affairs
concerning the defence of the Manchukuo seacoast and
rivers, and he will be authorized to exercise naval
power in case he deems it necessary for the maintenance
of local welfare and order.
The regulations, consisting of 15 articles, read
in part as follows:
1. The Imperial Navy has created the "Chuman
Kaigun-bu" in Hsinking, Manohukuo.
2.
The institution shall be in charge of all
affairs concerning the defence of the Man-
chukuo seaeoast and rivers, and simultaneously,
1t shall be in oharge of the guard thereof.
4. The Chuman Kaigun-bu shall have a Commander.
5.
The Commander is directly ruled by H.M. the
Emperor of Japan. He controls the naval
foroe under him and conducts the naval admini-
stration, following the instruotions given
him

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
him by the Japanese Navy Minister.
6.
The Commander is in charge of all depart-
mental affairs and shall maintain the
discipline, education, and training of his
subordinates.
7.
The Conmander may exercise naval power when
he deems it necessary for the maintenance
of welfare and order in the districts under
his jurisdiction. In the event of such an
emergency, he shall report to the Navy
Minister an the Chier of the Naval Staff
at once.
10.
The Commander shall have a staff consisting
of a chief of staff, staff officers, adjutants,
chief engineer, and chief accountant. In
addition to the staff, the bureau shall have
officers an men.
(3, 8, 9, and 11 to 15 omitted)

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 5, 1933.
JEJ:
MMRK:
Harbin's despatch No. 5756, under
date May 23, 1933, enoloses under cover
of a despatch to the Legation a list of
the nine Japanese naval officers
officially stationed in North Manohuria.
Two of the officers are permanently
attached to the Harbin naval office which
has replaced the former Japanese naval
mission and the other seven have been
assigned to the Provisional Defense Force
on the Sungari River.
Consul Chamberlain states that
several armed vessels flying Japanese
flags are still to be noted in the
Sungari River near Harbin although a
Japanese consular official informed him
that only "Manchukuo" vessels flying
"Manohukuo" flags and manned by
"Manohukuo" crews will be used on the
Sungari. Consul Chamberlain also states
that a considerable number of Japanese
naval personnel is in evidence in Harbin
and that it is likely that Japanese

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
reserve or non-commissioned naval
officers will actually be in control
of the "Manchukuo" navy. In concluding,
the despatoh r eports that a Japanese
military official has recently been
quoted by the press as stating that the
Sungari is relatively safe for larger
ships carrying armed guards, but that
smaller craft are still in danger from
brigands.
cow
ETW/VDM

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.97)
AM BLOD
TATE
5756
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
894130
HARBIN CHINA, May 23, 1933.
CONFIDENTIAL
F/H
JAPANESE NAVAL FORCE IN NORTH MANCHURIA.
S
COPYES SENT TO
O.N.I. ANDM
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
C
C
washington.
JUN 26 1933
4.30/80
Department of State
sir:
I have the honor to enclose herewith a copy of my
1/
despatch No. 2620 of today's date, addressed to the
Legation at Peiping concerning Japanese naval force in
North Manchuria.
Respectfully yours,
Fuhel lhumberlai
Culver B. Chamberlain,
American Consul.
Enclosure:
1/ Copy of despatch No. 2620 dated May 23, 1933,
to the Legation at Peiping, with its enclosure.
JUL 10 1933
In triplicate.
FILED
830
2
CBC/av

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.91)
320
AMERICAN CONSAULATE GENERAL
HARBIN CHINA, May 23, 1933.
CONFTDENTIAL.
U: JA   RN
The Honorable
Nelson Trusler Johnson.
American  inister,
e1n1.
ir:
894.34179
I have the honor to refer to despatch vo. 739 of the
Americen consul ate Jeneral at  ukden, dated nril 10, 1933,
on the sub ject Irperial Japenese ava? rfice n anchuria".
It is recslled that in connection with the establishment of a
Janunese Maval office in  anchuria, replacing the former
Naval  ission, mention was nde of ihe Naval ffice und of the
"rovisional avel efence orce on the sungari iver at Varbin.
Cortain additional data has now become available concerning
the Japanese Maval Office and the ungari River Defonce orce at
Harbin. here is enclosed a list of Japanese naval officera as-
1/
signed to Harbin as iven in the officiel NAncao" cov ReNT
CAETE No. 117 of pr1l 10. 1933.
It will be noted that accord-
ing to this informetion, which was confiraed by a Jepanese con-
sular officer, nine Japanese naval officers are stationed in
Harbin. Of these two, namely Lioutenant Commander Seiji Kawabata
and Engineer (?) Comaander S. Shimizu, are understood to be per-
manently ussigned to the Harbin Naval Ofrice, replac ing the former
Naval Mission. The romaining officere listed conaiating of four
-line -

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
line and three staff officers under the command of Captain S.
Takeda are assigned to the rovimiona) Defence vorce on the
Sungari River for duty during the season when the river is
open to navigution - roughly from pril to cctober.
A Tapanese conmuler officer in ormed me thet he naval
officials are aasigned here in an ndvisory enpacity to assint
the anchukuo naval foree.
ccordin to th1s source only
"wanchukuo" vessels aying "rchukuo" fage and th an-
chukuo" crews vill be used on the ungari.
'owever it wos
admitted that "aseistonee" might be extended to the ungari
fleet by Japanese reserve nevol ofricers in  anchukuo"
service.
The extent of such assistunce and the nu ber of non-
official Jananese neval orsonrel to be utilized was not known
to my inorrant.
Chis in orma ion is ovidently not entirely accurate since
several arrmed vessels myíng the Japonese naval ensign and
apparently manned at lenst in part with Jananese crews have
been noted 1ying in the river et verbin. uring the 1932
season there were o nuaber of nrmei wessele plyins on the
Sungari, lying the Jupanese ar and commvanded by Japanese
naval officers.
hile no definite inforation is vailable
on the point, it is understood that not only have all oreft,
formerly comprising the Chinese neval fleet on the sungari,
been taken over by the new naval force, but some merchant
vessele heve likewise been armed and pressed into service on
the river.
It is demmed highly improbable thet the command of any of
these armed vessele will be entrusted to Chinese. It is likely
- tlat -

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.96)
-3-
that Japanese reserve or non-comminsioned naval officere will
actually be in control of the 'vanchuxuo" naval force.
A
considerable number of Japanese naval permonnel is in evidence in
arbin, and it is reamonable to suppose that the total strength
of the navai force ie considerable.
Lieutenant colonel Takeshita of the Japanese  ilitary
'iasion was recently quoted in the press (Harbin No-Ph.
semi-official Sino-Russian language organ of  ay 21, 1933) as
stnting that
navigetion on the ungori is relatively safe for
larger ships which pre all protected by armed zuards, but that
smaller craft are stili in danger from brigands.
several in-
stances of attaoks on river ateamers have been reported in the
press since the opening or navigation during pril.
Reupect fully yours.
Culver 3. Chamberlain.
merican coneul.
Enclosure:
1/ List of Japanese naval officers as stated.
Original and one copy to Legation.
Three copies to Department.
Ono copy to Eabassy, Tokyo.
One copy to Consulate Ceneral, Mukden.
One copy to Consulate, airen.
830
CRC/av
True copy of
the original.

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.96)
SOURCE: "MANCHUKUO" GOVERNMENT
GAZETTE No. 117, April
10, 1933.
JAPANESE NAVAL OFFIC RS STATIONED IN NORTH NANCHURIA.
Permanently attached to Harbin Naval Office.
Lieutenant Commander（海軍少佐）
Seiji Kawabata ( 川烟正洽)
Engineer (?) Commander (海軍機関中佐）
) S. Shimizu
(清水獎)
Temporarily attached to Provisional Sungari Naval
Defence
Torce during open season
on
the River.
Captain（海軍大佐
S. makeda
(武田盛治)
Lieutenant Commander
海軍力佐）I.Matsumoto（松本一即）
Lieutenant（海軍大尉）
T. Iwagami
岩上次一
(小倉正身
Lieutenant（海軍大尉）
I'. Yokura
Engineer (?) Lt. Commander (海軍機関女佐) Y. Ishizaki (石崎寬一)
Medical Lieutenant
(海軍軍醫大尉) I. Moriya
(守座一男)
(佐藤哲秀)
Accountant Lieutenant(海軍主計大尉) T. Sato

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.30
847h.00 P.R./18
FOR#60
SEE
FROMWellington
Hitch
) DATED
July 6, 1933
TO
NAME
1—1127
8
REGARDING:
Naval affairs - Japan.
2
Editorial in "New Zealand Herald"
concerning Japan's naval aspirations.
Reference made to London Naval Treaty
signed by Great Britain,America and
Japan if they should think otherwise
by reason of more general agreement
limiting naval armaments, they shall
meet in conference in 1935 to frame a
new treaty.
ro

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.87)
The "Wow ealand Horald" of Auckland, in its issue of Way 6,
l95, devotod a rull coluan editoriml to Jepan's mafal aspiratioms.
Kefuroneo was made to the Fact that Article Et o. the Londom Naval
Treaty migned by Creat Britain, Amerioe and Japan providmd that
uslese the partias to tie Treat) mhould determine othsrai se by
reamon of a more g noral egreument limiting maval armaments, they
mhall mmet in conferonce is l935 to frare a nor treaty. ittention
is direeted to the fect shet inassuc ax no other sgree ent has
sinee been maco betwess t s partiss liniting naval erwamonts, it
will be necesser to hol enntr co vr noe in lo35, aus tkat at
suoh & cosference Jaen wil: uncoutteil insist ups nevel arity
with Great ritei, an merice. bis the "her lu sa,a, is of
more than merely acadesic i terest to tie people of Sax ssland.
s is cugt y jn such catter with e presa or e eela,
the Uaited tatee is polota ts as  villel in the ooe, by
having set the exewple lu l987 of unduly insisting upox cruiser
equality with treat  ritain. The edl oriel concludes by mmying
thet "Now Japen, taught in the: sohool of  emanue, and feeing an
lnternational wi cuation cot et el plouscut, naturell, takee a
loos out or seriea s bock."
Captain Eumphrey avi: s, a residert oi Aucxlans, returned
from a visit to Japa: on June 2o, and is quoted ty the local press
as heving said tho: st the present time the whole of Japan is very
bitter gainst the ritiah beoauas oi the imposltion of cotton
Anties in incis, whiel the, consicor were doel ned to curtall
Japasene tracee
0

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.86)
-18 -
He deseribed Japan ms the most industrious an: tha sost
officient netion of the worl:, ant that her werohent fleet
is so large sa to be able to treaaport an arey of luc ,0ù
men at e mowent's notice. varyw ere there were sins of the
most jntenee incustrial et vily, and he feare: thet Jeran
was an ever-increneins enace to ustralia and Hew aaland.
Captain lavien referres to the Japanese docand for equality
in naval power, ann the effeot mhioh it wo.  have on reet
Britain. He Gemerted ti ct the Jupaaess ere chartine wmters
in the vioinits of suetrulie, an that Jeb. envimeed tho
pooad bility and tte protabil:ty at war, unc thet ritain sho ld
therefore e prearod.

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.94)
Ail
Division of
EASTERN AFFAIRS
JUL 17 1933
D
Fer the peacs or the Orient and to maintain her existenos
nation, Japan has withdrawn from the League of Nations as a result
the Manckurien dispute. This withdrawal is a natural remult of thd
differenees whiek have arisen, but it does not moan that Japan willt
involved in a war with the League or with the members or the League
in faot is means that Japen will in the future be in closer direet
comtact with the Powers. The "nationel emergenoy" however sontinw
besause there is no immediate prompeot that the League or the mombe
of the League will ohange their attitude toward us.
My objeet in writing this artiole is to blerify the views of
Japanese people and to place before them the Japanese Navy's attitu
in regard to questions in whick it has sush a hesvy responsibility.
may state that there is no need to be pessimistic in regard to the
8
future of the Mmpire. On the contrary, our future is very bright, and
2
when we consider thet our forefathers hawe weathered worse storms than
the present one, there is no need to be alarmed. The people may also
reet assued that the Japanese Navy is doing its best to fulrill its
mission and is prepared for any omergency.
The popoler impression in Japan at the time of our withdrawal
from the Leegue was that in addition to leaving the League, Japan
Intosded to sever relations with all of the states which are members of
the Leegue. It is beliewed that this wrong impression no longer pre-
wails. Neither has our withdrawml from the League resulted in our
beime isolated. Japan still maintains the same diplomatic relatione
with the states or the world as she did before leaving the League - and
abe is still restrieted in her movements as she was before leaving the
League, by treatles with various powers.
It has mometimes been said that there is a difference of opinion
betweon the Japanose Army and Navy in regard to our "hypothetieal"
enany - i.e., it has bean said thet the mrmy looks on Russia and China
as our most probable enemy, while the Navy regards the United States as
our most probable enemy. It is true that every country has, as the
objeet of ite armements a hypothetioal enemy, and it is true that our
proparations have objectives, but it must be realized that the Army and
Mavy of a country are like the wheels of a wagon or the wings of a bird
in that they muat work together to be effeotive.
Japanese armaments are of a purely defensive nature  based on
Japan's detormination to establish and maintain peave in the Oriant, *
at the sams time to defend the Empire against an enemy. We have no
offensive objectives, unless some country should attewpt to prevent u
from carrying out our national, polioy, in which case the Ahmy and the
Kavy mast then bo employed to remove the obataole at any riek whisk
be involved. In this sonse Japan does have a pypothetical enomy and
is the country whioh at the time soems to sfrer the groateut poasiby
of objeoting to the carrying out of our polioy. In this conneotionf/?
may be said that unless a nation does have a bypethetical oxemy it is
impossible to carry cut any economioal expansion of armaments. liowever,
is should be moted that this hypothetical onemy is the enmmy of the
Whele mation y and not of only the Army or the Navy. The oritidism that
the Navy is not interested in Manchuria or that the Army is not insert
eeted in the Mandate Islands is not true. The Navy is vitally iuterp
ested in helping solve the nehurian and kongolien probloms - aince
smccessful defense of the Bmpire from a sea atteck restg largolt on
the maintenence of peace and order in that region as w
maintenance of our communioations with it.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.30/83
894.00. R./68
SEE
FROM
Japan
(Crow
) DATED Auguet 9. 1933.
TO
NAME
1—1127
REGARDING:
8
Press reports indicate that the Japanese
Naval General Staff has approved a naval
expansion program to be initiated with the
beginning of the next fiscal year, which
aims to put Japan in possession of a navy
equal to the maximum strength allowed by the
London Treaty.
hs

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.97)
According to press reports the Japanese Naval
General Staff has approved & naval expansion program
to be initiated with the beginning of the next fiseal
year, which sims to put Japan in possession of a navy
equal to the maximum strength llowed by the London
Treaty. It is reported that thi: will involve an
expenditure of Yen 500, ,000 over riod of three
years.
The prestige of the J pmese prmy a pears to be
involved in  dispute which has urisen in Osaka be-
tween the Army no the Jolice . A private in the army
failed to notice  traf ic signal  nd was reprimanded
by a police officer.
. The latter is ulleged to have
resorted to physical violence in trying to impress
upon the private the iwportence of obeying oolice
orders. The Army considers that one of its members
bas

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.30/84
SEE
894.20262/5
FOR Despatch#1616.
FROM
Berlin
(Messersmith..) DATED Sep. 26,1933.
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Section of bulletin entitled "Japan's Naval
Armaments and its Treaties" indicates the
type of publicity which is being put out
through Japanese organizations in foreign
countries.
hs

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00 P. R./70
FOR
Dospatch # 541.
894.30
SEE
FROM
Japan
(
Grew
) DATED
Oetober 3, 1933.
TO
NAME
1-1127
ero
8
5
REGARDING:
Announcement by the OFFICIAL GAZETTE of
September 27th of the revision of the
Naval General Staff Ordinance to give
the Chief of the Naval General Staff
the power to undertake peace time tac-
8
tics and to make fleet commanders and
1
naval station commanders responsible to
him in matters concerning strategical
plans.

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.91)
- 22 -
IV.
COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
(a) Revisal of Maval Crdinance.
The OFFICIA: OAZETTE of September 7  nounced the
rovision of the Naval General Staff Orainance to give
the Chief of the Haval General Staff the  wer to under-
894.30
take peace time t ctics ane to sake flest com anders and
navel station commanders responsitle vo hia in matters
concerning stretegies! lens.
e tre ymes the sini-
fie nee of this is not  rent, mut is is ctually a
clerifie tion or t  tins existing betseen the Su-
prewe Com od of th Havy,  hm. orer, th Chief of the
Navel Gener 1 Steff, ene t  ini ser of t  vy Lopart-
went.yvise
or innce tan Uhief of the Ganerel
Stofr evem in ts ce time i in compl  control of navel
t ctic un er the Emperor, chus revovine hi. from is
former pesitim  vel co mand e ic he hel with the
Minister of t havy. tr reason for th' ch nge originated
In lese folloving t signing of the Lowion N val Treaty
hich te havel General atef c rge
was signed by the
Jovernment cespite their Djections.
Pre state ent 1 suet by toe Havy Dep rtment snnouncing
tis revision declared: "with th sbove wentloned r visions,
Varlous regulat ons for t routine sorx of the Mavy De-
partment and toe Naval General Staff bave been r vised.
"By this revision, the  uestion or ecicing neval
strength, much discussed in the ast has been ade very
clebr, ane naval t ctical fralrs will also be amoothly
conducted. .........."
betalls, however, as to the new
prececure

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
500.A 15 A 5/12
FOR ...
Report
894.
FROM
Navy Department
) DATED
Sept. 28, 1933
30/
TO
NAME
1127
86
8
9
REGARDING: Studies for Revision of Naval Treaties: Japan makes -
and nas appointed a committee to study the problems
connected with the next naval conference, ad to
formulate Japan's policy.
h

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
November 23, 1933.
ERD.
MPP：
The enclosure to Tokyo's despatch
No. 575 of November 4, 1933, is a trans-
lation of an article on Japanese and
American naval policies which is instructive
and well worth reading in full.
Japanese writer on naval affairs. He first
came into prominence when he "covered" the
Washington Naval Conference for the Tokyo
JIJI SHIMPO, and was so strongly in the
confidence of the Japanese delegation that
he was able to send by far the most
intelligent despatches on the proceedings
of the Conference. If I remember correctly,
it was he who carried out a "scoop" on the
Four Power Treaty. His success on this
occasion established for him a reputation
for accurate knowledge of his subject which
is not equaled by any other Japanese
publicist writing on naval affairs.
The burden of the article is that the
United States should be satisfied with a
30% superiority over Japan in naval strength.
His

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
His view is that in the event of war
between the two countries the American Navy
would take the offensive and try to bring
about a general engagement near Japanese
waters, while the Japanese Navy would
prefer to maintain the defensive and fight
nearer home. The ratio of B0% which he
proposes would, he thinks, give "no cause
or opportunity for any rivalry or naval
competition to arise between the two coun-
tries, there being no necessity for America
to feel any threat from the Japanese Navy,
while Japan, in her turn, need not entertain
the slightest fear about the safety of her
national defence. The consequence would be
an eventual relaxation of the somewhat
estranged relations between the two nations".
It may be necessary to explain that
such figures as 6.6 and 8.8, found on page 2
of the translation, refer to the composition
of the Japanese battle fleet; a 6.6 fleet
being composed of 6 battleships and 6
battle cruisers, while an 8.8 fleet would
be composed of 8 battleships and 8 battle
cruisers.
88
EHD/REK

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Novenber 34, 1933.
EHD:
101
ROM?
It appears to me that Ir. Ito's
thesis as to the respective functions of
the Japanese and Ameri can navies is
erroneous in one particular. His argument
is that the Japanese navy exists purely
for the purpose of defending Japanese
territory against attack, and that, hypo-
thetically, the American navy intends to
attack Japanese territory. In the opinion
of students of the situation with whom I
have discussed the matter, the Japanese
navy is designed to prevent interference
by Western powers in Jupan's Asiatic
policy; no Western navy would attack
Japanese territory primarily, although
it is possible that such attack woulā
result from endeavors to protect the in-
terests of the estern power in Asia. An
attack by Western powers therefore would be
in defence of their interests, while r.
Ito conveys the impression that an attack
on Japan's navy would be in the nature of
an offensive directed against Japan itself.
ERD

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
November 25, 1933.
ERD:
MPPT
The words "attack" and "invade", as
they appear in the translation, are not to
be taken too literally, for the reason that
apart from the question of accuracy in
translation, warships are not capable of
"attacking" or "invading" territory. These
words, as well as "offensive" and "defen-
sive", are used as strategic terms.
I do not find that Ito anywhere argues
that the Japanese Navy exists purely for
the defense of Japanese territory.
His view is that whatever the cause of
war - whether to retain the Mandated Islands
or to prevent interference with Japanese
policy in China - Japanese naval strategy
will be defensive. So far as defending
Japanese territory goes, Dickover himself
points out that a Western power might find
it necessary to attack Japanese territory
in order to protect its own interests in
Asia.
As a matter of fact, if the point were
reached where a Western power found it
necessary to despatch a fleet to protect its
interests in China from the effects of
Japanese policy, a necessary and preparatory
tep would have to be the elimination of the
Japanese fleet in waters near Japan.
EHD:REK

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.96)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, November 4, 1933.
No. 575.
SUBJECT:
Transmitting Article regarding Naval Rivalry.
94.30
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFF!IRS
NOV 21 1933
Department of State
F
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
G
C
PH
DEC 26 1933
894.30/87
UVISION OF
WESTERN EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
For
InUSA
ONI
M/D
The Honorable
COPIES SENT TO
O. N.I. AND M. I.D.
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
1/
I have the honor to transmit herewith as of possible
interest to the Department, a translation of an article
from GENDAI a popular magazine of the great Kodansha
house. The writer, Masanori Ito, is Japan's best known
JAN 13
FILED
private authority on naval affairs, and is supposed to
1934
be in close touch with naval leaders.
The moderate
views which he expresses in regard to naval rivalry
between

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
between Japan and the United States are of considerable
interest.
Respectfully yours
Jorrth
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosure:
l. Article from
GENDAI.
710
WTT:1

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 575, November 4, 1953.
Article in GENDAI for October, 1933,
by MASANORI ITO.
It is an obvious fact that the Japanese and American
navies face each other across the ocean as rivals. It
would be of no use to conceal this fact, on the contrary
I believe it would be far more profitable to recognize
the fact and to exolain the actual situation cnd to warn
the people that the navies of the two peoples stand as
hypothetical enemies. By using the word"hypothetical
enemies" one is apt to jump to the conclusion that the
two countries have the relationship of ene ies, but that
is a rather hysterical viewooint. The re on is that there
are various kinos of hypothetical enemies cnd for the pur-
pose of fixing one's military defence an hypothetical enemy
is necessary. Without such an ooponent military prepara-
tion is not necessary. Of course Janan has no intention
of making war, but there is certainly a possible enemy. On
land, we inay aumit that only Russia xists as such, but on
sea there are America and ngland. Th se countries have no
intention of attacking but they have the ability to &tack.
America with a navy across the sea coula easily attack the
shore of Japan.
Modern navies have immensely increased their range of
action. The battleships nd aircraft carriers of America
could sail from Hawaii nd within & few days easily attack
Japan and return to their base. The navies of the future
will be far more able to make distant attacks. Similarly
the Japanese navy could, without great difficulty, make
war off the coast of Hawaii. The American navy knows well
that Japanese submarines could easily travel that far. To
put it simply, the Pacific Ocean has shrunken because of
naval advances. Therefore, the forces on e ch side of the ocean
which are able to engage ech other ay be called, geographi-
cally, "hypothetical enemies". As long as one has the
ability to attack, the other must preserve a sufficient
force to prevent such an attack. The Japanese navy is
maintained for such purposes and not for the purpose of
making war. Because of these facts if one country reduces
its military forces the other may also make corresponding
reduction, and this being so, no harm is done to the funda-
mental principle of military defence which is "safety".
Consequently an armament reduction is lways welcome. In
1920 Japan and America reduced their naval power by utual
agreement more than 30 per cent. However, it is extremely
difficult for the two countries to agree on the ratio of
such reduction. Unless each country considers that it has
sufficient military strength to preserve national ssfety, an
agreement cannot be reached, and if agreement is forced on
one of the parties, unfortunate effects are left which cast
a cloud over the conduct of international affairs. If a
disarmament conference is convened and later breaks up with-
out agreement the result is worse than before, and armament
construction continues to grow in some oblique direction.
Because the Washington Conference failed to limit the con-

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
truction of cruisers and smaller units, a competition in
these types soon resulted. Consequently the next Disarma-
ment Conference in 1935 must be approached by these "hypothe-
tical enemies" with the utmost care, sympathy and under-
standing.
What about the present situation between Japan and
America? It is infinitely more enlightened than that be-
tween 1900-1914 when England and Germany were struggling
for supremacy on the seas and when anyone who suggested
agreement was denounced as weak. However, since 19l6 some-
what the same kind of competition has grown up between
America and Japan.
After Japan had won the Russo-Jap nese war, the Japa-
nese navy seemed to have lost its necessary"hypothetical
enemy" and the only country which remainea in the position
of one was the Unitea States. In 1905 the Japenese navy
began the 6.6 program with a plan of extenaing it eventually
to 8.8. In 1915 with a view to incrensing the interm dite
units the 8.4 program w s set up in 1918 the8.6 pro-
gram, and in 1920 the 8.8 program finally passed the Diet.
Since 19l5 the programs of renlenishaent have all been es-
tablished with an eye on America.
Until l9l6 America evidenced no particular :ctivity
in naval affairs. There did not exist an argument for restrain-
ing Japan's hegemony in the Far East, but no naval construc-
tion scheme was put rorward to supnort this argument; but
in 1916 the United States, stimulsted by the Great War, be-
gan the construction of a great fleet and in consecuence
the consciousness of an "hypothetical enemy" became ¿eeper on
both sides of the Pacific. In their arguments the advocates
for this great navy used unorecedented languege in calling
for restraint on Japan. The effect in Janan on Government
and people was to injure the friendly feelings which had
been maintained toward America and to create the resolve to
spare no money in making necessary naval replenishments.
If America had not passed this great Naval Bill the
Japanese 8.8 program would never have resulted. Thus
one may say that the American naval plan resulted in the
Japanese 8.8 program and on the other hand, the Americans
may claim that the Japanese 8.4 program awakened the United
States. But in uny event the relations during that period
remind one of the condition at the time of the rivalry be-
tween England and Germany. If things had gone on in that
way either b nkruptcy or a war would have resulted, either
of which would have been a calamity for the nations. Happily
the "ashington Conference took place and limitea the number
and the ratio of capital ships. Then the London Conference
fixed a provisional limit and ratio on the secondary ships.
The period of limitation fixed by these two treaties will
expire in two years.
The withdrawal of Japan from the League of Nations has
necessitated her to adopt measures for strengthening national
defence, and this has upset the armament reduction program
arranged among the Powers concerned. At the same time Japan's
withdrawa1 from the League has given rise to the problem
whether Japan would continue in future to exercise the Lea-
gue's mandate over the former German South Sea Islands. Le-
gally and theoretically, there are various views about this
auestion.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
question, but it cannot be ignored that the League may de-
cide to withdraw its mandate from Japan after Japan quits
the League. In view of such eventuality which is not al-
together impossible, Japan must be prepared to refuse any
such demand and must be prepared to back up her views
even by force, if necessary. This, however, is the extreme
eventuality and yet it is the proper function and mission
of the armed forces of the country to provide against such
eventuality. Thus the Japanese navy is faced with the
necessity of building up to the maximum limit under the
armament reduction treaty, to provide against what may
happen two years hence. Those South Sea islands form the
first line of Japan's naval defence and are very important
assets in that respect. To lose them or transfer them to
any other country is even more dangerous to Japan than to
allow an enemy fleet to occupy the Bonin Islands, it being
particularly so from the viewpoint of efensive tactics.
Hence the Japanese navymust hasten to expedite the con-
struction of warships in order to provide for a possible
change of the situation two years hence when Japan's with-
drawal from the League becomes an accomplished fact. And
it is but a natural outcome of her national policy conse-
quent upon her withdrawal from the League, and not on the
initiative of the Japanese navy, From the viewpoint of the
naval authorities it would be more convenient and advanta-
geous to execute the replacement plan by degrees in the
course of several years, instead of hastening the construc-
tion in a short period of only two years or so, thereby
to maintain an equilibrium of shipbuilding capacity. How-
ever, the situation does not permit leisurely measures,
but calls for a speedy execution of the plan, the same
being also the case with the repletion of air force.
This being the case, the United States, which is geo-
graphically speaking in the position of the hypothetical
enemy, must naturally feel uneasy, although it is the height
of folly even to dream that Japan would challenge her to war.
It must be admitted that in observing the situation the
American viewpoint is quite different from that of Japan,
and if Americ feels uneasy about Japan's actions there is
no other way for Japan but to explain clearly her situation
and do the best to convince America of the uselessness of
any feeling of un$easiness on account of the measures taken
by the Japanese navy. In much the same way it is wrong for
this country to criticize America for expanding her naval
armaments in consequence of her uneasy feeling about the
situation. Because of this uneasiness America is going to
take in hand the naval expansion scheme, and this creates
another f ctor affecting the naval armament reduction agree-
ment.
Several months ago the American navy, in conformity,
with the retrenchment policy of the Roosevelt administration,
considered taking out of commission one-third of its fleet
alternately. Such a courageous determination cannot be
expected of any other navy and is worthy of admiration.
More recently, however, the American navy decided on a naval
building program as one of many measures for relief of un-
employment and the shipbuilding industry, the proposal having
been approved by Congress. Whether this legislation should
be viewed as a pure unemployment relief measure or as a
counter-

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
counter-measure to Japan's naval repletion program, is a
matter of opinion. The writer is inclined to interpret it
as vovering a dual purpose because it is reasonable to
think America desires to provide against Japan to more
or less extent as a country which geographically stands
in the position of a hypothetical naval enemy..
Since the conclusion of the London Naval Treaty Ameri-
ca has been very indifferent and rather negligent as regards
naval shipbuilding, in comparison with Japan which has given
keen attention to the matter. Of course the American navy
was not idle about the conversion or reconstruction of her
capital ships, but was quite negligent about the construction
of new warships; new ships built by America since the Lon-
don Naval Conference being only one aircraft carrier and
eight destroyers except those large type cruisers provided
in the previously decided construction program. It is true
that during this interval, naval expansionists urged the
construction of new warcraft, these including the proposals
of 500,000 ton navy and Y120,000,000 naval outlay voiced
by Mr. Britten and Mr. Vinson respectively, but al? those
proposals were rejected by the Congress.
It was the opinion of the writer that this half-hearted
policy of the American navy would not continue long but that
some day a new repletion plan woul necessarily be proposed
and adopted, and true to my observation the recent naval
construction bill was brought forward in connection with
the unemployment relief measures. As st ted, it was rather
negligence for the American navy that it should have been
satisfied with acdition of only 60,000 or 70,000 tons up
to date while it has the right to build 300,000 tons by 1936
under the London Naval Treaty. No wonder that Americ: should
have decided on the execution of the present gigantic ex-
pansion scheme. Yes, it is no matter for wonder, still at the
same time it cannot but arfect the interests of the Japanese
navy which stands in the position of the hypothetical enemy.
The naval expansion programs of th tvocountries fac-
ing each other across the Facific Ocean will necessarily ex-
cite the feelings of thetwo nations to sone extent. The
plan of the American navy ecided so far consists of the con-
struction of 3: vessels within three years commencing uring
the current fisca1 year at an outlay of Y476,000,000 in
Japanese curroncy, the details being as follows:.....Omitted.
The second repletion program, i.e. new construction plan,
of the Japanese navy is n t definitely fixe as yet, but ac-
cor ing to the draft program informally decided by the Naval
Staff Board (as reporte by the press) the plan consists of
the following:-----
Two aircraft carriers............10,000 tons each
Two 6-inch cruisers...............8,500 tons each
Fourteen destroyers............ . 1,400 tons each
six submarines......
......displacement unknown.
Eleven other ships, including one oil tanker, one construction
ship, one submarine tender ship, 4 torpedo boats and 4 des-
troyers, these being, however, outside of thelimits reserved
by

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
by the treaty stipulations.
The cost of construction is estimated at over Yen
500,000,000 in adition t which some Yen 160,000,000 is
required for the repletion of the naval air force, the total
expenditure approximating Yen 660,000,000. The program,
which is not final but may be subject to some alteration,
is rather of small scale as compared with that projected
in 1919-20 when the naval powers vied with each other for
the supremacy of naval strength. Still it is very signi-
ficant that the two nations each standing in the position
of possible enemies should have to commence the construc-
tion of new arships at the same time, which is an event
never known in the history of naval shipbuiling of the
past twelve years.
Supposing the two nations, Japan and America, engage
in armed hostilities, there is no doubt that they will have
to fight to thelast and thet the American navy will choose
to engage in a decisive battle with the Japanese fleet in
the sea adjacent to the Japanese coast. Likewise the Japanese
navy will prefer t encounter the American fleet somewhere
in the Pacific waters near the Japanese shores. In other
words, the American fleet is sure to take the offensive
and the Japanese the defensive. The above supposition is
qufte unmistakable in view of the f ct that ever since 1920
America firmly insists on maintaining a ratio of 10 to 6
with Japan. If theintention of theAmericen navy were other-
wise, that is to say, if theintention of the American navy
were to adopt a defensive naval policy against Japan with its
base, say, at Pearl Harbor, or at least to abandon an of-
fensive policy against Japan, America might rest content with
a ratio equal to Japan's. Granting that Americ: esires to
keep the greatest navy in the world simply from a motive of
maintaining prestige or to setisfy her national pride, she
might remain satisfied with a speriority of s0 per cent.
In that c se, there woul e no cause or opportunity for any
rivalry or naval com etition to arise between the two coun-
tries, there being no necessity for America to feel any threat
from the Japanese navy, while Japan, in her turn, need not
entertain the slightest fear about the safety of her national
defence. The consequence would be an eventual relaxation
of the somewhat estranged relations between the two nations.
Nevertheless, America insists on maintaining a ratio
sufficient te taketheoffensive against Japan especially
in respect of capital ships and large cruisers, and objects
to Japan's claim for 70 per cent ratio (although America
recognized Japan's claim about 70 per cent in regard to
auxiliary ships). All this is because America follows a
policy of taking the offensive against the Japanese navy
in Japanese waters in the event of war. As a matter of fact,
in building warshins the American navy attaches the great-
est importance to the superiority of their cruising capacity
with a view to enabling them to stand long cruises at more
or less sacrifice of speed nd armaments. On the contrary,
the Japanese navy is concentrating its efforts in perf cting
defensive strength and that for naval engagements in the
near seas too, as Japan has not the remotest idea of assum-
ing any offensive against the American or any other foreign
navy.

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
navy. In respect of naval ratio, too, Japan sticks to her
claim of 70 per cent as the standarā ratio, and though she
now finds herself in an isolated position and is confronted
with the necessity of expanding her national defence power
Japan has no intention to claim any ratio above 80 per cent.
This eloquently speaks for the fact that Japan has no in-
tention whatever of assuming the offensive gainst any fo-
reign country. In the plan of naval manoeuvres, too, the
American navy carried out in 1925 grand scale manoeuvres
lasting nine months in the Pacific based on an offensive
action in distant sea, whereas the recont manoeuvres carried
out by the Japanese navy were based on purely defensive
plans, while the area of the action was limited to only the
seas around the Japanese shores with one extremity of the
area of the exercise touching the South Sea islands under
Japan's mandatory rule. Should the two nations clearly un-
derstand such relations and take the situation into consi-
deration in discussing the problems that affect the Americo-
Japanese relations no ripple of discord is likely to stir
the surface of the Facific and the talk of armament reduc-
tion will pave the way to a satisfactory settlement eventua-
11y。
I may dare say that in many respects the warships of
the Japanese navy excel those of the American navy, but no
one can say that the Japanese ships beat the American war-
ships in ev ry respect. For intance, Japanese warships
are by no means equal to the American ships in thepoint of
the capacity of standing distant cruise or long navigation.
Such being the c se, if the Japanese fleet should attempt to
take theoffensive against the Americen navy end venture to
encounter the Americans, say, in the neighborhood of Hawaii
the result will be anything but encouraging. To sum up in
case the two navies engage in a decisive battle it will take
place in the sea in the neighborhood of Japan's territorial
waters and in that event we may not need to entertain any great
fear as to the issue of the war, provided that the present
strength of ur naval air forces be increased to some extent.
The American navy authorities are well aware of that fact and
because of that America will not dare to take any aggressive
←attitude such as to invade Japan, and therein lies the true
value of the strength of the Japanese navy. Otherwise the
navy will be quite useless to Japan and even a luxury. At
the same time Japan has not the slightest ideas of assuming
the offensive and invade any other country or its oversea
territory. Moreover she is well aware of the great danger
of so doing. It is the raison d'etre for the existence of
the Japanese navy to make theother party give up any idea
of invading this country. It is the writer's sincere wish
that the American navy would reciprocate this idea, in which
case the tension between the two countries will be considera-
bly diminished and the two nations will get on snoothly al-
though they stand as hypothetical enemies across the Pacific.

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.93)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
89
4
894.1564/1
Tel.#10-1lam.
SEE
FOR
0
C
FROM
Japan
Grew
) DATED
Jan.20,1934
Co
to////
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Ban on orders for repairs to foreign steamships
at Japanese drydocks:@onsul at Kobe reports that
Ja anese drydocks have been instruct ed by naval
authorities to acce t no orders or repairs from
foreign steamship companies more than 30 days in
advance. This is resumably,to keep docks clear for
emergencies.
fng

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
MP
This telegram must be
closely paraphrased be-
fore being,communicated
to anyone (A-1)
Tokyo
Dated January 20, 1934
Rec'd Jan. 19, 11 p.m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
10, January 30, 1i a.m.
The Corsul at Kobe reports that from the local
office of the P. and O. Steamship Company it has been
learned that Japanese dockyards have been instructed by
564
the naval authorities to accept no orders for repairs
from foreign steamship companies more than 30 days in
advance, presumably in order to leave the docks free
for emergencies.
GREW
HPD

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.97)
Jil
CHEDULE OF JAPANESE MIDSHIPMEN'S PRACTICE TRAINING SQUADRON
Lv. February 15
Yokosuka:-
Lv. February 23
Kilung:-
Arr. February 21
Bako:-
Arr. Nebruary 24
Lv. Pebruary 25
F
Manila:
Arr. February 28
Lv. March
3
一
Singapore:
Arr. March
9
Lv. March
12
m
Aden:
Arr. March
28
Lv. March
29
S
Port Said:
Arr. April
Lv. April
8
Istanbul:
Arr. April
12
Lv. April
16
Athens:
Arr. April
18
Lv. April
20
Naples:
Arr. April
23
Lv. April
29
Leghorn:-
Arr. April
30
Lv. April
30
Marseilles
Arr. May
1
Lv. May
13
89
Baroelona:
Arr. May
14
Lv. May
18
Malta:
Arr. May
21
Lv. May
23
4.
Alexandria:
Arr. May
27
Lv. May
31
Djibouti:
Arr. June
7
Lv. June
9
C.
Colombo:-
Arr. Juno
18
Lv. June
22
0
Batavia:
Arr. June
30
Lv. July
3
Palau:
Arr. July
11
Lv. July
14
68
Saipen:
Arr. July
18
Lv. July
18
Futami:
Arr. July
22
Lv. July
22
Yokosuka:
Arr. July
26
994.30

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
841.00 P.R./334
#677
SEE
FOR
894.30/90
FROM
Great Britain
Atherton) DATED Apr. 30. 1934
TO
NAME
1—1127
REGARDING:
Japan and Naval Equality. Statements from press
regarding proposals by Japan to olaim naval
equality on the expiry of the Treaty of London,
and to double her air force during next three
years.
Japan no Naval uality.
in anewer to a uestion, the ord  rivy eal stated
In the House or om ons on ril oth that he had ween
statemente in the press regarding propoaule by Japan
to olaim nuval equality on the expiry or the Treaty or
Londn. und to double her air force curing the next three
years, but thut he had reoeived no of ioiel conrirmatioh
of them.

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.96)
91
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
6
4
30
500.A 15 a 5/161
SEE
FOR
Desp. #167
Colombo
(Livingston) DATED
FROM
June281934
TO
NAME
1—1127
OPO
REGARDING:
Japenese naval policy: Transmits newspaper comment on -
and her demand for parity.
fwd

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.97)
RECEIVFD
0C1 10 1934
A
HAISION OF
Japanese Navy and Politics - Rear Admiral Sakano's Resignation.
In the past few weoks the resigmation of the Saito Cabinet,
which has been rumored ever since its formation more than two
years ago, has agein occupied the attention of the political
world. There are several possible candidates for the Premier
ship, and of these ceneral Kazuntari Ugaki, Gevermor eneral of
Chosen is one of the most prominent. In all probability. due
to the opposition of the rmy and Navy, ceneral Ugaki will
probably not be asked to corm a cabinet, even though the prosent
Cabinet does resign. However, General Ugaki visited okyo in
May and there was, as usual, considerable specul ion as to the
meaning of this visit. Hear dmirel Tmuneyoshi kano, Head of
tement in
tho Navy Publicity  ection issued the followin
r ard to the Navy and the politi cal situeti on:
"Since the my l5th affair the Havy has prohivited
ofricers from expressing their views on political matters
894.30/92
in view of the basie priniople of non-interference on the
part of naval and military men in politios. There have
been, however, rumors recently that the avy is opposed
to the formation of a Ugaki Cabinet. No such objection
has been made in Navy ciroles. The competent naval
authorities, as a whole, are entirely uninterested in
political uestions".
The above statement, which appears to be perfectly harmless
d a mere statement of fact, oreated a considerable sensation in
political ae well as in navai ciroles. s a result of this Rear
airal Sakano tendered his resigmation whidh was promptly accepted.
The naval leaders apparently regarded the consequences of
var Admiral Sakano's statement as very serious. It is possible
to interpret this attitude in two ways - either that there was
serious opposition to General Ugaki in the Navy or that the naval
authorities do not support the prinoiple of non-interference in
polities. It is possible hat oth of these are true. Certain
officers say that the naval authorities did not take exoeption to
the emphasis laid on the aloofness of the Navy from politios, but
at the same time are nontheless paying close attention to, the
course of politi cal events as they are strongly persudded that in
order to have the country meet the coming crisis in 193-36
successfully Japen must have a strong Cabinet with the united
support of the Navy and the nation.
It is possible that Rear Admiral Sakano's resignation was
oaused by a disagreement between naval leaders of even more
importance than himself. It is also possible that Captain Sekine,
a very inrluential officer in the Publicity Section, engineered
the whole affair. It is knowm to be a fact that Captain Sekine
opposed the appointment of Rear Admiral Sakano to the position of
Head or the Naval Publicity Section. Captain Sekine is said to have
oppesed Rear Admiral Sakano because of the latters well-kmown
friendliness toward the United States and Amorieans.
The Naval Attaohe regrets that Rear Admiral Sakmo has been
romoved from this important ofriee. Not only was he a friendly
and important contaot for the Naval Attache, but in addition it
is felt that his moderate and liberal views, combined with his
frieadliness tomard the United States would have had a very
State

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.98)
beneficial effect on naval publicity in this country. No one has
been appointed to succeed Rear Admiral Sakano up to the present
time. The Minister of the Navy is reported to be considering the
appointment, but no permanont appointment will be made until a
very suitable ofricer is found.

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.30/
701.9442/23
# 339
SEE
FOR
Quebec
Randolph
0ct。 17,1934
FROM
)DATED
TO
NAME
1—1127
6
3
REGARDING:Japan's Naval Policy disucssed by Japanese Minister at
meeting of the Quebec Military Institute. Newspaper
comments attached.
wb
894.
w
2

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.97)
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Quebec, Canada, Cctober 17, 1934.
Japan Entitled To suiid Up Stronger
SOBJECT:
Defensive Pleet, Declar. I Japanese
Winister To Canada In Speech At uebec.
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.
SiR:
I have the honor to report that at its dinner
and meeting Saturday evening, Cetober 13, 1934, the
vuebec ilitary Institute nad as its guest-speaker,
His Excellency, Iyemasa Tokugawa, minister of Jepan to
Canada; that he spoke nearly one hour and a half; and
that some of his statements may be of interest to the
Department.
Guebec Military Institute:
The Quebec Military Institute, established about
eight years ago, is made up in membership of active and
retired Canadian officers in cuebec. It holds dinners
and meetings from time to time (about five to seven e year)
in the uebec Garrison Club and on such occasions has guest-
speakers. As a body it is not understood to have any
partieular importanee, the idea of its founders being
partly soeial (a re-union of old officers) and partly
instruetive (through having good speakers) and partly (and
perhaps/
2

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
perhaps principally) to afford social training for offieers
in active service, a requirement for attendance at the
meetings and dinners being appearance in full dress military
uniforms. At its meeting Saturday evening, October 13th,
I was invited to oe resent and wys sested t the head table,
some member co. trolline iavitstions believirs p rently that
the visit of the Japanese Minister and his speech might
interest me.
American-Jauanese Friendship:
In referring to the United States and to American-
Japanese relations, the zinister made an elaborate gesture
of looking down the table and aduressing me as the representative
of the United States. All of his remarks about tre United
States and American-Japanese relations seemed friendly, and
he made special points of the mutuelly peneficial trade
relations and the friendsbip since earlie t times between the
United States and Japan.
Russian-Japanese Relations:
Likewise, I received the i pression that the Minister
believes that there is no such thing as a uestion of war
between Japan and Russia and that war talk bss no basis in
fact beyond ridiculous newspaper artieles.
Manchukuo:
The Minister apparently considers Manchukuo a closed
question, his explanations, if I remember correctly,
including assertions that all Europeans and Americans
living in Manchukuo approve of what has been accomplished there.
Jananeze

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
Japanese "Dumping":
The accusation that Japan in its foreign trade is
guilty of so-called "dumping" the Minister app rently
considers very unfair, end he explained at some length the
labor and social conditions obtaining in Japan whier make
weges paid fair, whereas te fact that Japan must import
from abroad most raw materials makes Ja. anese trade
distinctly advantageous to those countries which are Japan's
sourees of supply.
Japan's Naval Polioy:
The Minister discussed in great detail Japan' form of
government and its principal governmental institutions, all
of which may perhaps be dismissed as purely academic with the
exceotion of his discussion of the Japanese navy nd naval
policy.
My conclusions in this regard are that, although the
Minister gave out much detailed information about a, n and
Japanese institutions, he was pot perhaps so very successful
in winming from his cuebee audience any particular sympathy
for Japan.
On the other hand, the Minister's discussion of Japanese
military and naval matters in such great detail may have been
prompted by the speaker's knowledge that he was addressing a
group of officers, who might be expected to be particularly
interested in these questions. In any event he was very
definite in his arguments that Japan requires a relatively
stronger defemsive navy which he and Japen hope can he
arranged for not ly Japan's increasing its tonnage but
preferably by other tonnage being decreased.
Another
definite/

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.95)
-4-
definite impression obtained from the Minister's remarks
is thet Japan is definitely going to usk for n new naval
accord with different ratios to replace the Washington and
London eccords.
Although posted on neither naval mattire ter on Japan,
it seemed to me from the addres: heard in uebec that one
underlyine cause of the Minister's (and Js an's) issatisfaction
with present naval ratios may arise at lesst prrtislly from a
Japanese nationel pri :e which finds Japan's being pecend to
any other power irksome.
Suebeo Newspaper Sumceries:
Attact ed is a newap aper sumaary of the da an se
inister's speech in Queben, as published in th CRtonIt-
TELEGRAPH of October 15, 1934.
Qther vuebec Hosuitality
To Japanese Minister:
Saturday afternoon, preceding the dinner, the Japanese
Minister to Canade as ts a anese Ravel Attache at ottawa,
were tes suests at Sp neercocd, the official residence of the
Lieutenant Govermor  uebec, who in this rovince represents
the British Crom.
Guebee's Exolanation of
Visit of Jauanese Minister:
Some two years ago the uebec Military Institute had
as its guest-speaker a disti guished Chinese schelar, who
gave a most excellent address on Par-Eestern uestiens,
particularly the Japanese-Chinese conflict at Shanghai, and
after two years of effort ths quebec Militar, Institute
finally/

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.95)
-5-
finally got the Japanese Minister to Canada to come
to quebec and be the guest-apeaker in order that the
members might hear enother side of Far-Lastern cuestions.
Res, ectfully yours,
220
John Randolph,
amuricnn Consul.
Enclosure:
Newspaper summary of
Japanese winister's speech
in quebec, published in
the CHRONICLL-TLLEGRAPH
of cctoser 15, 1934.
Distribution:
Originsl and 4 copies to Department;
Copy to Legation, Ottawa, Canada;
Copy to Consul Deneral, montreal, Canada.
F1le: 800/830
JR/mw

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch
No. 339, dated October
1934, from John Randolp.
American Consul, Quebee,
Canada, entitled: "Japah
Entitled To Build Up Stron.
Defensive Fleet, Declared
Japanese Minister To Canada
In Speech At Quebec."
Clipping fros
CHRONICLE-TELEGRAPH
Cuebee. Canada, dated Cetober 15. 1936.
The Japanese Minister also al-
Japan's Envoy To
luded briefly to the history of his
country and its rapid develop-
Canada Asserts
ment, to the Governmental and
army organization and evolution
His Nation Needs
and to some of the past, present
and future political and economic
problems of his country. Japan is
Defensive Navy
planning and organizing not only
for the present but for the future,
according to the speaker who
Hon. I. M. Tokugawa
made a passing reference to the
relations of the Japanese with
Expresses Hope Large
China Russia and the United
Navy Power Will
States and stated that these rela-
tions, which were improving, were
Lead Disarmament
good, particularly with the Am-
erican Republic.
Role In Far East
Industry Forges Ahead
Agriculture was still in a some-
what unfortunate situation but
Japan is not primarily interest-
mest other lines of activity, par-
ed in possessing a great offensive
ticularly the manufacturing and
fleet but she wants and needs a
exporting of finished products,
more extensive and greater defen-
has progressed considerably in Ja-
sive navy, according to His Excel-
pan in recent vears. the speaker
lency, the Minister from Japan to
Canada, Hon. I. M. Tokugawa,
pointed out and explained that the
who spoke on the problems of his
tremendous development of Jap-
country before members of the
anese industry in recent years was
Military Institute at the Garrison
due to fine co-operation and un-
Club on Saturday night.
tiring efforts of the technicians
Due to the fact that Japan is
and business men of Japan.
entirely surrounded by water and
Relations between Russia and
that its existence depends largely
Japan were described as "normal"
upon the entrance of raw mater-
by the Minister who expressed the
ials from outside countries, the
opinion that the drawing up and
Japanese need ample naval pro-
adoption of several recent en-
tection for their shores, the Min-
tentes between the two countries
ister pointed out and explained
have somewhat dissipated the
that his country might possibly be
threatening clouds of trouble hov-
called upon to preserve peace in
ering over Moscow and Tokio.
the Far East, in which part of the
Disarmament Hopes
world it was the only major sta-
Hon. Mr. Tokugawa concluded
bilizing factor.
by voicing the hope that the na-
Defensive Fleet Needed
tions with more powerful navies
Large and powerful battleships
than Japan would take the lead in
were not especially desired by the
reducing their armaments and
Nippons who, however, thought
would thus permit the Japanese to
stroyers, and particularly more
the country should have more de-
co-operate with them in the carry-
submarines, in order to build up
ing out of such a plan.
Colonel J. E. Pinault, president
a proper defensive fleet, the
speaker declared and said that
of the Institute, was in the chair
these undersea craft were known
and introduced the guest speaker
to be defensive vessels as they
to his audience, which number-
ed around sixty-five, and on. Mr.
were not practical to use in trying
Tokugawa was afterwards thank-
to make war in far foreign wa-
ed by Captain Adrien Pouliot,
ters. Airship carriers and war-
ships, essentially for offense, do
not interest Japan much, he add-
ed.
Speaking of the present naval
5-5-3 ratio agreement which will
expire at the end of 1936 and re-
minding his hearers than any par-
ties to it that were not in favor of
its renewal without change had to
advise the others of their decision
before December 31st of this year,
Hon. Mr. Tokugawa stated that
the average citizen in Japan did
not seem to approve of the pre-
sent naval arrangements and that,
as a prominent Japan Admiral re-
cently stated, the prevalent gen-
eral opinion was that Japan was
entitled to build up a stronger de-
fensive fleet.

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
WE
JS
GRAY
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. AND M.I.D
1-1836
193
Dated December 4, 1934
Rec'd 5:04 a.m.
Sccretary of State,
PARAAIRS
Washington, D.C.
894.30/94
794.30
Departuent of State
268, December 4, 4 p.m.
not
The publicity section of the Japanese Navy
854.202
Departr ent has announced to the press that on December
3, 1934, it despatched 10,000 copies of various
pamphlets containing Japaneso naval propaīganda to
Japanese societies and schools in the South Seas,
Hawaii, the Pacific coast of the United States,
Canada and elsewhore and will later despatch 10,000
copics of a new propaganda pamphlet yet to be published.
DEC 14 1934
FILED
GREW
F/FG.
DEPARTMEN:STATE
7924
DEC
PM
INFORMATIO
DEC13 1934

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.95)
894.30/
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20/128
Despatch #411
894.30/
SEE
FOR
Kobe
Donovan
Dec. 3, 1934.
FROM
-) DATED
TO
NAME
1—1127
6
5
REGARDING:
"Japan's rmy and Navy": Book entitled -, with translation of
excerpts.
5
G
bo
1

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.00 P.R./84
Desp.#1090
FOR
894.30/
FROM
Japan
Grew
) DATED
Dec.10,1934.
/*b/1
NAME
1—1127
6
9
REGARDING:
Japanese Navy: Gives changes made during the regular
annual shift of officers.
fpg

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.95)
(()
V
The Navy Ministry ennounced officiclly on
November 15 its regular annual shift of navel officers.
Viee Admiral Sankiehi Takahashi, heretofore Comtander of
the Second Fleet, was eppointed Commender-in-Chief of the
9
Combined Fleet, while dmirel Nobumasa Suetsugu, former
Commender-in-Chief of the Combined Fleet, became Commender
of the Yokosuka Naval Stetion. Admirel Osemi Nogano, Com-
mander of the Yokosuks Naval tation before the reoent shift,
was appointed to the Supreme ar Couneil. It is rumored
thet Admirel Nagano will be the chief Neval delegate to the
Naval Conference of 1935, if such c conference is held.

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.92)
Aila
Division of
415
FAIRS
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Kobe, Japan, December 15, 1934.
894.30
For Di-trbrion Check
Yeu
No
Grade
11.1.1
For
115A
BJECT:
New Year's Number of SCIENTIFIC JAPAN.
COPYSENT TO
A8ND
0.N1
fee
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
13310
35
WASHINGTON
9N 1
894.30/97
SIR
Wd
I have the honor to forward under separate cover
two copies, with three supplements, of the New Year's
number of SCIENTIFIC JAPAN, a monthly magazine published
by Hakubunkan, 9 Hon-machi 3-chome, Nihonbashi-ku, Tokyo.
This particular issue of SCIENTIFIC JAPAN was advertised
in the morning edition of the OSAKA MAINICHI of December
9th. A translation of the advertisement (Enclosure
No. 1), follows:
"SCIENTIFIC JAPAN
NEW YEAR'S NUMBER WITH THREE BIG SUPPLEMENTS
COMPREHENSIVE ISSUE ON NAVY.
At last 1935 has come! What will the
rupture of the Naval Disarmament Conference
bring about? What armaments have the Powers
at sea? How is the Japanese Navy prepared for
it? .It is this "Comprehensive Issue on the
Navy" that explains these matters to you.
E/DEW
DISARMAMENT PROBLEMS AND PREPAREDNESS OF
JAN 2 2 1935
FILED
THE SECOND NATION.
By Commander Unosuke Umezaki.
DEVELOPMENT OF THE IMPERIAL NAVY.
By Commander Zenjiro Shibata.
ENCLOSURNSYTLED IN
ORGANIZATION
OVERFLOW FILIE.
DATR 5ILED /-22-35
Bsro

=== Page 77 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
ORGANIZATION OF OUR NAVY.
By Captain Kazuo Maruyama.
STRONG AND WEAK POINTS OF THE NAVIES OF THE
POWERS.
By Shinsaku Hirata.
PRESENT BATTLE-SHIPS.
By Shuichiro Mimura.
JAPANESE CRUISER, THE FINEST WAR-SHIP AFLOAT.
By Shuji Mitamura.
DESTROYER, A HERO IN A HAND-TO-HAND FIGHTING.
By Lieutenant Commander Takeshi Nakajima.
MONSTER SUBMARINE BOAT.
By Lieutenant Commander Takeshi Nakajima.
PLANE DEPOT SHIPS AND NAVAL AIR-PLANES.
By Commander Masao Kato.
SPECIAL SERVICE SHIPS CHARGED WITH GREAT MISSIONS.
By Captain Hikota Hirose.
ACTIVITIES OF OUR NAVY ON LAND.
By Lieutenant Commander Keizo Sakai.
LABOR AND CARE REQUIRED TO CONSTRUCT A WAR-SHIP.
By B.S.E. Heinosuke Ushio, Inspector of
Naval Construction.
TERRIBLE FORCES OF NAVAL GUNS.
By Tadashi Onoda.
FISH-TORPEDO AS OFFENSIVE WEAPONS.
By Takeo Yamano.
LIST OF IMPERIAL WAR-SHIPS.
A DAY ON BOARD A WAR-SHIP.
TO THOSE BOYS WHO DESIRE TO BECOME AVIATION CADETS.
LIST OF NAVAL SCHOOLS.
ROUND TABLE MEETING OF READERS WHO WANT TO KNOW
ABOUT THE VITAL LINES AT SEA.
Attendants:
Commander Kojima
Commander Umesaki
Shinsaku Hirata.
Questioners:
Students of the First Tokyo
Prefectural Middle School.
ACCOUNT OF MODEL AIRPLANE FLYING CONTEST AND
NAMES OF WINNERS OF PRIZES.
SUPPLEMENT NO. 1.
FIVE BIG NAVAL BATTLES AS VIEWED FROM
STRATEGICAL POINT.
SUPPLEMENT NO. 2.
STRATEGICAL MAP SHOWING OPPOSING FORCES ON
THE PACIFIC OCEAN.
List of Types of Representative War-Ships
of Five Big Naval Powers.
SUPPLEMENT NO. 3.
MODEL PLAN OF THE FIRST CLASS CRUISER "NACHI".
Plan showing Construction of the Interior of
the Plane Depot-Ship "Kaga".
This magazine contains instructions how to
make models, news of science, novels of scientific
adventures, and a number of beautiful pictures.
Price

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.95)
-3-
Price: ¥0.60 (Postage (including supplements) ¥0.04)"
The model plan of the first class cruiser NACHI,
forwarded under separate cover, was sold quite openly as
a supplement to this issue. It is interesting to
speculate upon the fate of any foreigner who might be
found with such a document in his possession.
The Consulate lacks sufficient clerical help to supply
even a brief summary of the contents but it has been thought
advisable to forward copies as the contents will perhaps
be of interest to the Navy Department.
It has been suggested by a local Japanese resident
that this particular issue of SCIENTIFIC JAPAN is intended
for circulation only in the Kansai, a statement which can
easily be checked by the Embassy at Tokyo.
Respectfully yours,
HmrlPonnn
Howard Donovan,
American Consul.
Enclosure':
No. 1. Clipping from Japanese edition
OSAKA MAINICHI, Dec. 9, 1934.
Accompanimeny:
No. 1. SCIENTIFIC JAPAN, in duplicate.
No. 2. Supplement No. 1 to Soientific Japan,in duplicate.
No. 3. Supplement No. 2 "
n
n
No. 4. Supplement No. 3 "
1n
1n
1"
800
HD/mh
In duplioate to Department.
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.92)
closure No. 1 to despatch No. 4l5 of Mr. Howard Donovan,
American Consul at Kobe, Japan, dated December 15, 1934,
on the subject:
New Year's Number of SCIENTIFIC JAPAN.
From Japanese Edition OSAKA MAINICHI,
December 9, 1934.
海軍大全輯
！!號年新きつ錄附大三
學科
を、皆さんの前に明示したのが、この「海軍大全輯説」です！
わが海軍には如何なる覚悟があるか？
列強は如何なる海軍を有してるか？
軍縮會議が決裂したらどうなるか？
一九三五年は遂に來た！
本日
岩本海軍中佐·廣瀬海軍大佐·野原海軍大佐平田晋策石丸海軍少佐
附
别
模型飛行機競技大會記入賞者發表
訊ねる愛讀者座談會
恐るべき海軍砲の威力
軍艦が出來るまでの苦心
怪物潛水艦中
肉迫戰の雄・驅逐
世界一の日本巡洋三谷周
海軍の長所短所
帝國海軍の發達
民の覺悟
軍縮問題第二國
太平洋攻防戰略圖
錄
册
生
世界五大海戰
戰術上から見た
佐中
一
中位
田席者
1934
(附)
(附)
海軍造船大佐工
世界五大海軍代
牛尾平之動
中學校生徒
第一東京市立
(質問香)
No
Ans.

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
89
SEE 50C.A 4 B/628
FOR ...Report No..301
FRoM Naval Attache..apan(
) DATEDDeC.12,1934.
98
TO
NAME
1—1127
issued by the Japanese Navy Department indrming prediction
that - is actually to come in 1939, when the 'nited States
building program will be completed.
jsm

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENTFILE
NOTE
#428
SEE711.94/1008
FOR
FROM
Kobe
Donovan
) DATED
Jan。14,1935。
894.
TO
NAME
127
0
REGARDING:
1
6
Naval propaganda at Osaka: Reports exhibition of -, at Matsuzakaya
6
Department Store from January 9 to 27, 1935.
bo

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.90)
SA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 19,/934
mmit
S
You will find this artile
Laylon worlth reading.
987
SPECIAL
K
FEB 18 1930
MR. DUNN

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.90)
LM
ONLY
5
THE UNDER SECRETARY
FEB6- 1935
DOR
DEPARTMENT OF SIATL
AS
G-2 Report.
RECEIVED
MAR 61935
JXPAN (NAVAL)
Dopar'm! et State
Sub jeet:
A Britian Analysis of Jagan's Real Designs.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
994.3
FEB 4 1935
WWWON OF
what follows contains mot only e Britimb ppelyais
894.30/100
naval parity, but also ineludes a Britiah statement of why dortain
Pritish interests favor Japan's elaims against America.The
statements above referred to appear in the London "Ecomomist" for
Deeember 22, 1934 The artiele 1s headed "The Outlook in the
Paeifie".The following is an extraet therefrom:
"When a Power asks for a parity whieh it has not
previously enjoyed, 1ts neighbors naturally look for the
motive. In this ease, as in other cases, there are in
theory three possible motives: a desire for greater security,
or a sensitiveness over prestige, or an aggreesive ambition.
We may dimmiss the bypothesis that Japan is afraid
of being attacked either by the United States or by the British
Empire or by the two Powers in combimatiom; for while the
Waskington ratio of 3-5-5 (or, om the sesond kypothesis, 3-10)
in capital shipe does put Japen at è mumerieel dieaßvantege.
she is completely protected by Artiele XIX of the Washington
Treaty. nder which the British Empire and the United States
pledge themselves, so lemg as the Treaty lasts, to construst no
Maval bese nearer to the Japanese Empire them Singapere and
Hewaii respeetively. The fast that, in terminating the Treaty,
Japen is mow deliberately mmouneins this sovereign safeguard
of her seeurity is emough to show that her motive sanmot bo fear.
"Is the mtive prestige? A Power which bas resently
defied the werld, and hes so far "got weay with it", eannet really
be tennanted be the nore fooliagn of nn "ander deg. Nor do wo
F/FG.
beliove that oe zeellatte a Govoramnt ne that of Jagan weald taike
so srave a step from  exslssively sentimsntel motive.
From Ma. Lnten.
Regort o. 2o09. Deer , 20s.

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.90)
the larger pieees are Chimn hereelf and the Far Eastern
dominiome of the Soviet Union. The Wamhingtom Treaty
enables Japam to ensure maval, and therefore also military,
accems to all these pleces for herself, and et the sams time
to prevent the British and Ameriean armed forees, either
separately or jointly, from getting at them. If Japan
has this in her power on the Washington ratio, she would
have it a fortiori on a ratio of parity.
"But, if Japan were granted parity, would she be
likely to take advantage of it for aggressive purposes?
The answer to this question ie given by the second of the two
pertinent facts; and this is the maval and military mction
which Japam has already taken in Manchuria and at Shanghai
simse September, 1951. For this the present rulers of Japan
are avowedly impenitent; and they have given no indieation
that their aggression in the Western Paeific up to date
represents the limit of their ambitions. On the contrary.
the ballon d'essai about a Japanese Monroe Dostrime which the
"official epokeaman" at Tokyo let fly mome months ago suggests
that Japan intends to go on with her prosent poliey until she
has made herself effeetive mistress in the western Pacifie,
with China under her thumb and the Russian, Turopean and Ameriean
possessions and interests in that region redueed to the mame
de faoto status.
"In this situation, Japan's denunciation of the
Washington Treaty and insistence upon parity is an aet of the
utmost gravity. Indeed, it is not too much to say that Japan's
action hes overthrowm the status quo ante on which Anglo-Ameriean
relatioms have rested since the time of the Washingtom Conference.
In other worde, if Japan's aotiom does not brimg the British
Empire and the United States together, it will suseeed in driving
them apart - a prospest whish doubtless looms large in the
Japanese Goverament's present caleulatioms.
"At this stage, when susk serioms decisiems lie before
the Englisk-speekins peoples, it is important to fese the
difficulties in the way of closer cooperation. The chief
obstmeles en the Ameriean side are the tradition of iselation
(though this werks less powerfully againss Trans-Pesifie thes
against Trans-Atlentie entanglewents) and an argument - whieh
the Ameriean iselatiomists are sure to wse - that the direst
interests of the Britisk Empire in Chime end the Westerm Pacifie
are far larger then those of the Uaited States. On the Britisk
side, the obetaeles are a treditiomal friemdliness towarde Japem
and wafriendlimess tomards the Umited states in sertain maval
and Cemesrvative eireles in the United Xingdoms and the argeesnt
that, if  came to a "ahes-donm", the Jap anese could premptly
take all the lesal Britisk pamme, while American fatereste woald
suffer me correependins damege. "Ze Uatted states is è Pever
wkieh will mever codt iteelf in edremee to preeise mdestakinge.
ang glla ef thie ahoel (at a Contiantal of the
aoourdtgé). "with Amersen to ean's deals wisth Japan we eans
ne lat ne mabe a hangnán with Japan, and negadasse la her haráng a
to respest lecal Rritish Latoreste. of sush e prepesal as tmss
. L
Repert No. sesa9. Deeember 2a, 10s6.
●8-

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.94)
it is emough to may that its statesmanship is as bad as its
morals. It is equivalent to a proposal to keep Hong Kong.
at Japan's good pleasure, and at the risk of losing Canade
or Australial For an Anglo-Japanese deal would mean a bitter
estrangement between the United Kingdom and the United States;
and if ever Canadm were to be foreed into taking sides, as
between the United Kingdom and the United States, wheer
goographieal necessity would compel her to give her friendship
with her great Americen neighbor the priority over her friend-
ship with this distant European island.
"me right way to meet the coming crisis in the
Paeifie is meither for the United Kingdom to strike an improper
and dimastrons bargaim with Jepan, mor for the United States
to withdraw into an ultimately wntenable iselation, mor again
for the English-speaking peoples to line up on a sheerly anti-
Japanese front. The solution lies in an applieation - if only
a regional application - of the sollective aystem. The two
English-speaking peoples ought mow to get together with the
Ruesians and the Chinese to guard against any possibility of
suecessful aggression in the Pacifie by any local Power; and they
ought then to offer Japan the choiee between joining them in
the maintenance of peace in the Pacific or else having to face
an overwhelmimg combination of defemmive force if, with open
eyes, she casts hereelf for the aggressor's part."
Fro M London.
Report No. 36819.
December 28, 1934.
CORTLANDT PARKER.
Lt. Col., F.A.,
M., London.
- 5 -

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.90)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
CO
4.
3
0
SEE
500.A 15 A 5/1962
Me orandum
0
FOR
Coldeanal re
State Pepartment
FROM
Hornbeck
) DATED
Sept. 27, 1934.
TO
NAME
1:27
OPO
REGARDING:
Japanese pro osal that countries be limited to tonnage
basis es of January 1, 1937, and then revise so s to
produce a purel: efe sive n val force: Comments on -,.
jf

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.00 P.R./93
FOR
Desp#1475
FROM
Japan
Neville
) DATED Sept. 18, 1935.
894.30/
TO
NAME
1—1127
Naval demands for the 1936-37 budget.
REGARDING:
102
FRG.
102

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.86)
(b). The lay.
gu17
It we re o teu by the J
tht et e conference hel: by  frici lo of the N vy and
894.30
Fin nee  ini tries un the r: vi un a y the ofriel le of
the inistry of Fin noe h d ex 1 i en the euer l fin vei 1
cou itior of the overrunt  the llcy of  r. T k
à ahi to roduee the  tien 1 bon 1 sue, rd h d urged
tho offlet l of the io1 try I tho  vy te roauce thsir
des nd" ror tho lo-? budget. coroine to this ne-
p per, the  friol ls or the vy  tal try roplion tis t
the mount do huee b them das the mimi us ous 1 tent
with the  iuten noo of netion 1 defense.

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.002/292
Desp.#1864
SEE
FOR
FROM
Japan
Grew
) DATED
May 28,1936.
1to11
NAME
1—1127
3
REGARDING:
Amendments of the Regulat ions governing the
organization of the Army and Navy Departments,
and providing that appointments to the posts of
Minister and Vice Minister of the Army and Navy
Departments ahall be confined to generals and
admirals on the active list: Translations en-
closed.
ω
fpg

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00 P.R./101
Desp.#1829
SEE
FOR
894.30/104
FROM
Japan
Grew
) DATED
May 13,1936.
16111
NAME
1—1127
REGARDING:
Japanese Navy: The establishment of a "Naval Organi-
zation Investigation Council" is being considered.
Gives further information in this regard.
fpg
0
f

=== Page 91 === (confidence 1.00)
(c). The Navy.
It became known that the Navy had under consideration
the
* Embassy's despatch No. 1784 of April 17, 1936.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
-16 -
the establishment of a "Navy Organization Investigation
Council", the functions of which would be to draw up a
new naval defense policy, to suggest structural reforms
in Navy organization, and to compile recommendations for
submission to the Government.* According to newspaper
reports, this new organization will establish a policy
of "home defense combined with an advance southward".
It is said that the "advance to the south" will be peace-
ful and economic in nature.**
It was reported that the
Navy Ministry was opposed to the idea advocated by certain
Government officials of abolishing the South Seas Govern-
ment and placing the Japanese Mandated Islands under the
administration of the Formosan Government, because the
South Seas Government should be strengthened to promote
the Navy's policy of southward advance.

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.97)
105
894.30
DOCUMENTFILE
NOTE
711.94/1113
Letter
SEE
FOR
Davis, Norman H.
June 17, 1936
FROM
) DATED
394.30/
TO
NAME
1—1127
Japanese Navy: Wiser naval officers, who are in the majority,
REGARDING:
realize they made a mistake in leaving the Naval Conference
without an agreement; that even a naval treaty, which was
objectionable in some respects, is infinitely better than
0
no treaty. Foregoing according to Mr. Yoshida in conversa-
5
tion with Mr. Norman H. Davis, June 16. Further, Mr. Yoshida
believes his Government made a great mistake when it took
the position it would not discuss political questions at the
Naval Conference.
FRG.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00 P.R./103
#1942
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
July 13, 1936
FROM
(
-) DATED
TO
NAME
1—1127
Changes in the First and Second Fleets; reorganization of the
REGARDING:
former and additions to the latter. The Navy Ministry and
the civil branches of the Government reportedly at odds over
the appointment of a new Governor General for Formosa.
FRG.
106

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.99)
(c). The Navy.
According to information ootained fron the nbassy's
Naval Attaché, on June 1 the First Fleet vas divided into
two Divisions, while a Third Aircraft Squauron was added to
the Second Fleet. Te only reason iven by the Havy Depart-
nent for these chan es was that they were for the purpose of
stren thenin the combined fleet to eet the post-treaty
situation. Althouch the addition of the Thiru Aircraft
Squadron to the Second Fleet undoubtedly strengthens the
air arm of this fleet, the total number of battleships
operating in the First Fleet remains unchan ed and their
reorganization into two divisions is robably a step taken
for tactical reasons.
It vas reported that the Mavy Ministry and the civil
branches of the Government were at odds over the appointment
of a new Covernor General for Formosa, the former strongly
 insisting upon the appointment to this position of either an
Admiral on the active list or an Admiral from the reserve
list and the latter upholdin the twenty-year tradition of
having a civilian as Governor of the island. The reason
Civen for the Navy's demand was that Japan must perfect
its defenses in the south, presumably in connection with
the much talked of "southward economic advance".**

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
500.A 15 A 5/846
FOR
Tel #262
noon
FROM
Japan
Grew
)DATED
Dec. 18, 1936
TO
NAME
1-1127
O PO
REGARDING:
Gun calibers. Gives opinion concerning Japanese
naval construction program and the question of
approaching the Japanese Government in regard to
intentions in the matter of - .

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.94)
3cofieo to lhacry
[tleru
(072)
77-1
GRAY
LURUEANAFR
U
1—1336
FROM
Tokyo
FEB191937
Dated February 18, 1937
UEPARIMENT HON
8
Rec'd 7:17 a.m.
Secretary of State
Washington
A
58, February 18, 4 p.m.
894.30/108
One. In response to interpellation in the Lower House
on ebruary 16 Navy Minister Yonaistated incidentally
"I sh ll re rain from launchine such naval expansion as
would stir other powers and I have no intention of main-
taining siron th equal to the strongest naval powers
in the world". The house applauied this statement.
Two. Last night former Arbassador Debuchi took occasion
103F
to call m attention to the s nificance of this statement.
GREW
PTLED
KLP
2
C
F/G

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 2325.
Tokyo, March 20, 1937.
894.30
SUBJECT:
NAVAL AFFAIRS.
5
894.30/109
ONI AID
abym FE (38)1
COPES SENTTO
O.NLAOD
3m
Jol
A
The Honorable
Fb
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to report that with the announcements
in the press of the naval armament programs of the United
States and Great Britain, the Japanese public, the Govern-
ment and naval circles are beginning to form some picture
of what this country really may be faced with during the
next few years in the field of naval affairs. It cannot,
F/G
of course, be said that the possibility of being out-
distanced in a real naval armament race arises in the public
mind for the first time but there is evidence that the reali-
ties of the situation are beginning to make themselves some-
what felt.
When Japan decided to rid herself of what she considered to
be

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Anril 8, 1937
SKH
894130/109
In despatch No. 2325 of March 20, 1937,
the Tokyo Embassy reports that announcements
of British and American armament rrograms
have produced no visible effect upon the
official Janarese attitude toward the
question of naval limitation by treaty.
The Japanese ave two formulae, that of
non-aggression and non-menace and that of
no qualitative limitation without
quantitative limitation. Althougr in some
circles it is questiored wl etler America
and Great Britain will carry through their
building plans, and esrite the eneral
firm
attitude regarding the c:sarmament
question it cannot be denied that develop-
ments abroad are causin reat concern to
the Japanese.
There is no answer now to tle question
of whether the Japanese will as time coes
on become more acceptable to proposals
for limitation based on another formula
than their cwn, but cbservers feel t hat
so leont as the national resources can stand
the strain no concessions may be expected
in tle matter of building un to tle maximum
regarded necessary for defense and for
implementing tl e Jananese policies of
stabilizing east Asia ad of "soutl ward
advance".
The despatch is timely and useful and
serves to confirm the views of the ivision
J2u3
regarding the present Japanese attitude
toward naval disarmament.
JWB/DLY

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
be the stigma of inferiority by refusing to prolong the
Washington and London treaties it was felt that whatever
the price proved to be it would be less than the cost of
the damage to national prestige and amour propre under
the existing ratios. There is no question that this feel-
ing remains even in the light of present developments and,
in fact, no visible change exists in the official attitude
toward the question of accepting in the near future limita-
tions of any sort imposed by collective treaties with the
other naval powers.
With April 1 near at hand - the date before which Japan
has the option of conforming to the provisions of the Three-
Power London Treaty of 1936 regarding the 14-inch maximum
caliber for guns carried by capital ships - there is every
indication that Japan will reject the British proposal re-
garding such limitation, thus precipitating unlimited com-
petition in this field as well as in the matter of ship con-
struction. If, then, the British proposal in this respect
is rejected the Japanese have taken every step possible to-
894.30
ward preventing the renewal or continuation of any form of
naval disarmament which would be acceptable to the United
0
States and Great Britain.
01
The Japanese have evolved two formulas to explain their
b
policy regarding naval armament which are used on every occa-
sion when their views are expressed: "Non-aggression and
non-menace" is the first, and "Qualitative limitation not
accompanied by quantitative limitation is contrary to the
spirit of disarmament", is the second. Together these formulas
are

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
are used to support their views that no disarmament agree-
ment can be accepted by this country except on a basis of
a common maximum limit for all fleets and that the only
practical method of attaining such equality is to have
those countries with superior fleets reduce these to the
present limits of the Japanese fleet; furthermore that quali-
tatively all fleets should be of such design and the armament
should be so limited that they would in theory be incapable
of offensive use and would be restricted to purely defensive
purposes. Despite the threatened armament race with which
the Japanese are at present confronted, there is no indica-
tion that there is to be any change in their policy in the
near future.
The Navy Minister, Admiral Yonai, replied to a question
put to him in a meeting held on March 2, 1937, of one of the
budget sub-committees of the Lower House, as follows: "I
think a committee meeting of the general disarmament conference
of the League of Nations will be held about May 5 and I think
the League is making a move toward disarmament. If a third
party proposes disarmament, Japan is ready to enter into ne-
gotiations as long as a fair and proper formula is to be
adopted. As long as Japan has no confidence that such a dis-
armament agreement can be reached, it has no intention of
initiating any such proposals."
A "fair and proper formula" would presumably be only
one which conformed to the requirements outlined in the fore-
going paragraphs. Nevertheless it must be noted that the
Navy Minister has merely stated that the conditions necessary
for Japan to initiate proposals do not at present exist but
he

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
he does not close the door to participation by this country
in negotiations for a disarmament agreement provided invi-
tations are issued. There are some here who interpret the
appointment of Sir Robert Craigie as Ambassador to Japan
to succeed Sir Robert Clive as signifying Great Britain's
desire to pave the ground for a new Disarmament Conference,
but for the present there is no indication that either the
Foreign Office or the Naval authorities are interested in
the matter. They point out that Britain's enormous build-
ing program and the United States' increased naval appro-
priations render the likelihood of such a conference highly
remote.
It is possible that the Japanese regard the news from
both her naval rivals as somewhat of a bluff and certainly
some circles here question whether these projected programs
will ever be carried through. At all events it seems to
be the present policy of the Japanese Government to concen-
trate independently upon her own defense problems, especially
in the matter of naval aviation, and to await developments.
At the budget meeting on March 2, last, the Director of the
Naval Affairs Bureau of the Navy Department, replying to a
question put by a member of the Seiyukai as to whether the
Japanese authorities had any intention of revising the third
replenishment program to meet the American and British pro-
grams, said: "The replenishment program has been worked out
on the basis of the London and Washington treaties from an
autonomous standpoint, and it is not thought necessary to
change it". The Navy Minister also stated that Japan would
be secure from an attack by the air forces of the American
navy by the end of the 1939-1940 fiscal year when the
expansion

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
expansion of the Japanese naval air forces would be com-
pleted.
Despite the confidence expressed by the Navy Minis-
ter and the general firm attitude at present regarding the
disarmament question it cannot be denied that developments
abroad are causing great concern to the Japanese. Whether,
as time goes on and it becomes evident that the programs
announced in American and Great 3ritain are more than paper
projects, the people of this country will become more re-
ceptive to proposals for naval armament limitation based
on another formula than their own, is a question to which
there is no answer now. But it is the generally accepted
belief among foreign observers here that so long as the
resources of the country can stand the strain the Japanese
navy will make no concessions in the matter of building up
to the maximum limit necessary not only for defensive pur-
poses but also to implement their policies of "stabilizing"
East Asia and "southward advance".
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
500.
ESC:g
Copy to Embassy London.

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.98)
U
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 15, 1937.
JWB:
JMT:
SKH:
The Embassy at Tokyo reports
that the Japanese Navy has published
another propaganda pamphlet, the pur-
pose of which is to impress the popu-
lace with the necessity for continued
and strenuous efforts to build up the
Navy to the required standard.
The standard required is one
which will enable Japan "to fulfill
its great mission as the stabilizing
influence in East Asia, thereby en-
suring its (Japan's) extension and
facilitating its future expansion".
Of considerable interest is the
fact that Germany and Italy are
pointed to as shining examples of
what grim determination and military
preparednes have done for them.
The plea is made that various
European countries and the United
States "have been carrying out an ag-
gressive economic advance" in Eastern
Asia, especially in the development
and extension of air routes. Special
reference is made to the strengthening
of defense works in Hawaii by the
United States.
WTT:EJLM.m.H.

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
Ac
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1121
4.30
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, May 15, 1937.
No. 2427.
SUBJECT:
JAPANESE NAVY PAMPHLET.
PIES SENT TO
VND
0
6u1
HSC
STATE
miD
894.30/110
JUN 21 1937
MR. WELLES
Division of
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
I have the honor to state that in order to whip up
public interest in the requirements of the navy and arouse
the public to the realization of the country's needs in
respect of naval armament, the Navy Department has published
a pamphlet entitled: "The Non-Treaty Era and Our Navy".
This pamphlet is to be issued on May 27, the anniversary
of Admiral Togo's victory over the Russian Fleet in the
Battle of the Japan Sea. A translation of this pamphlet
has been made by the JAPAN ADVERTISER which has published
the translation in three installments on May 10, 11 and 13.
F/FG
1/2/3
The clippings are enclosed herewith.
There is nothing particularly new or important in this
pamphlet,

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
pamphlet, the purpose and tone of which is to impress
the populace with the necessity for continued, unceas-
ing, determined and strenuous efforts to keep the navy
up to the requirements of national defense. It opens
by recalling that while the victory of tiny Japan over
giant Russia was a great achievement, it was not brought
about by mere chance but by the grim effort of the people
united as one. The present situation is likened to that
which existed prior to the outbreak of the Russo-Japanese
war and is described as even more serious from the world
point of view than at the outbreak of the Great War, and
the argument is advanced that the navy must be brought and
kept at the required standard. Tnis standard is one which
will permit Japan "to fulfill its great mission as the
stabilizing influence in East Asia, thereby ensuring its
(Japan's) extension and facilitating its future expansion".
Of considerable interest is the fact that Germany and
Italy are pointed to as shining examples of what grim de-
termination and military preparedness (i.e., unilateral
contra-treaty action) has done for them. The pamphlet
even goes so far as to s ay that"Italy, foreseeing the in-
ability of the League and the insufficient power (the
underscoring is mine) of France and Great Britain, carried
out her long cherished desire to annex Ethiopia." As an
aside it may be remarked that this is a striking expression
of the doctrine of "right is might" which guides the military
in this country.
The plea is then made that various European countries
and the United States have become more deeply interested
1n

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
in Eastern Asia and that besides the maintenance of
their rights and interests "they have been carrying out
an aggressive economic advance in this sector", especially
in the development and extension of air routes. In dis-
cussing the United States naval expansion, reference is
made to the strengthening of defense works in the Pacific,
especially in Hawaii and Pearl Harbor, and the conclusion
is drawn that "all these activities ....... must be con-
sidered as preparations for operations in the Pacific".
The reappearance of Soviet Russia as a naval power
is also discussed and the statement is made that "the rise
or fall of Japan depends upon whether East Asia is stabilized
or not. This is a life and death question. Therefore the
fleet must be able tc repulse any attempt to disturb the
tranquility of East Asia or to defeat any fleet invading
the Western Pacific".
The pamphlet ends with a plea for unity and efficient
arms and urges the people to heed the teachings of Togo who
advised strong arms in time of war and strenuous training
in time of peace.
Respectfully,yours,
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosures:
1/2/: Clippings from JAPAN ADVERTISER,
May 10,11 and 13, 1937.
500.
ESC:g
Copy to Embassy London

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.1, to despatch
No.2427, dated May 15, 1937.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Monday, May 10, 1937.
NAVY PAMPHLET RECALLS BATTLE
OF JÁPAN SEA AND ADMIRAL TOGO
Compares Gravity of Present Situation to Emergency
Existing Dring Victorious Russo-Japanese War
nese people, united as one. to tide
Following is a translation of a pam-
over the unprecedented crisis. In
continued until 1897 when a memorial
phlet issued by the Navy Ministry
other words. our Empire did not win
was addressed. during the 10th session
in commemoration of the thirty-
the Battle of the Japan Sea by mere
of the Imperia! Diet to the Throne
stalments will appear on this page
brated on May 27th. Two more in-
second anniversary of the Battle of
The Japan Sea which will be cele-
easiness prevailing both in Eastern
chance.
Now it must be said that the un-
regarding the discontinuance of the
Imperial grants.
Were the two battleships. Fuji and
Asia and in the Pacific region at the
Yashima. completed in time, they
The memory of May 27. 1905. that is
present time constitutes a situation as
might serve to bring about a very
to say the Battle of the Japan Sea
critical as that which existed before
on which our Empire staked its ex-
the opening of the Russo-Japanese
istence. is immortal memory to the
War. If we should pursue a wrong
advantageous situation for our Empire
posterity of our nation. thus keeping
policy in dealing with this extraordi-
in connection with the three Powers'
alive our gratitude for the grace of
nary situation, it is certain that our
intervention following the Sino-Japa-
Heaven. reverence for the august vir
great achievements in the Japan Sea
nese War. not to mention the war
tue of His Imperial Majesty and ap-
would come to naught. Now is the
itself. This statement is not with-
preciation of the great triumph of our
time when the Japanese people should
out foundation because the completión
arms. Already thirty-two years have
look inwardly in consideration of the
of the vessels was greatly delayed oħ
elapsed and it is a matter for pro-
great achievements in the Battle of
account of the relation with expense
found regret that the living remem-
the Japan Sea and form a really firm
and also for other reasons although
brance is gradually lessening because
determination accordingly.
the construction plan was prepared in
our national hero. Fleet-Admiral Hei-
hachiro Togo. is now no more and
other commanding officers who ren-
The real power of the Imperial Navy.
Power of Navy
1890.
Sino-Japanese War
dered distinguished service in the bat-
now generally recognized to be the
Be that as it may. when the Sino-
tle have passed away one after an-
leader in Western Pacific, was not
Japanese War ended in a signal vic-
other.
Renewing our memory of the past
the Great Emperor Meiji, deeply con-
built in a day. In this connection
it may be recalled with reverence that
entertain grave misgivings about
Japan's advance to the continent and
tory for our Empire. Russia came to
on this memorial day. we feel our
cerned about the difficulty of meeting
pressed for the return of the Liaotung
blood is boiling. In comparing the past
the urgent need for a strengthening the
Peninsula to China on the ground that
with the present conditions of our Em-
coast defense of Japan following the
the possession of the territory by
pire, we feel that our hearts are full
Restoration on account of the scanty
Japan would be detrimental to peace
of deep emotion.
public coffer. granted a gracious mes-
in the Orient. Though feeling a pro-
Gravity of Situation
sage on March 14, 1889, announcing a
found chagrin, Japan found it most
It is already six years since we
donation from the privy purse of ¥300.-
difficult to set her navy of that time
of the situation confronting our Em-
Manchurian incident. Besides thís
began calling attention to the gravity
pire following the outbreak of the
000 to the coast defense fund. The
gracious action of the Great Emperor
impressed the people at large so deep-
ly that public contributions for the
tion the combined strength of the
three intervening Powers, apart from
the consideration of financia! condi-
against the Russian fleet, not to men-
outbreak, there also occurred the
same purpose soon exceeded ¥2,000.-
tions in which she was then placed by
of our Empire from the League of
Shanghai incident and the withdrawal
000. Thus, outcries for a perfection of
the coast defense and naval expansion
waging war against China.
using up of enormous State funds for
Nations. Disarmament conferences
were raised in all quarters.
Further the Eastern squadron of
were a!so held in the meantime. Thus,
In 1893, however. the House of Rep-
Russia kept on cruising off Nagasaki
our Empire has had to put up a great
resentatives impeached the Ito Cabi-
and in the neighborhod of the Liao-
fight single-handed in the interna-
net during the 4th session of the Im-
tung Peninsula by way of intimidation.
tional arena but this is not all for we
perial Diet and struck out the budget
Under these circumstances, the Japa-
have had also to face political agita-
estimates for the construction of naval
nese people. with their teeth set and
tion and popular unrest at home.
ships. This led to the granting of an
their hands clenched, could not find
Indeed, it must be said that our na-
Imperial message to the Court and
any other course than accept the un-
tion has come face to face with a
Government officials as well as the
reasonable advice, keeping back their
grave situation both at home and
members of the Imperial Diet, which
tears of chagrin.
abroad. As for the Imperial Navy, it
is now confronted with the sheer ne-
not be slackened for a moment in re-
was to the effect that attention should
issued on May 10, 1895, concerning the
Thus, an Imperial Rescript was
cessity of bravely working to make
gard to the national defense, that an
return of the Liaotung Peninsula to
our national defense secure in the
midst of the armament expansion in
engaged with all their might now that
which various countries seem to be
annual donation from the privy purse
of a sum of ¥300,000 would be granted
for the following six years and that
all the civil and military officials, ex-
China. No sooner had the Imperial
Rescript been issued than the rejoic-
ings of the people in the victory dis-
appeared and the entire nation was
a non-treaty era has set in.
The Russo-Japanese War was no
should contribute 10 percent of their
cept those in special circumstances,
throw into deep resentment and in-
dignation. From that moment on the
doubt an exceptionally great event in
salaries towards the construction of
ten long years of hardship and pri-
which Japan participated by staking
naval ships during the same period.
Hereupon the House of Represen-
vation began.
her entire fortune. At that time,
Russia was generally recognized as
for the construction of naval ships and
tatives revived the budget estimates
Sino-Japanese war still remained, the
In 1896 when the after-effect of the
one of the strongest nations on the
approved them with an amendment.
Imperial Navy worked out a 10 year
globe and it literally caused the whole
The House of Péers also gave its ap-
program for the construction of 103
a small island country like Japan win
world to be wonder-struck to see such
so signal a victory over the giant Rus-
were built with the budget comprised
proval and the budget was carried
out after the Imperial sanction had
been obtained. Those ships which
tons at a total cost of 213,000,000 in
preparation for the establishment of
the so-called 6-6 squadron organized
ships with a total tonnage of 153,000
signal victory is to be attributed to
the grim determination with which
It goes without saying that the
ships, and two other vessels. The Im-
perial grants and the contributions ef
the Fuji and Yashima, both battle-
ed the beginning of Japanese naval or-
with 6 battleships and 6 armored cruis-
ganization on the basis of modern tao-
strenuous efforts made by the Japa-
the civil and military officials were
tics and almost at realizing the ideal of
a balanced fleet.

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.99)
Empire's Naval Strength
As Russia had an Army of which
Again in 1902 when Russo-Japanese
she was proud before the world and
relations in the Far East became strain-
the Russian Navy, too, was quantita-
ed, an 11 year program for the con-
tively so superior, twice the strength
struction of 3 battleships, 3 armored
of the Japanese Navy of that time, it
cruisers and 2 cruisers at a total cost
was an utterly grim determination that.
of 100,000,000 was presented to the
the Japanese people resolved to go to
Imperial Diet but it failed to be ap-
war. Apart from the Navy and Army,
proved during that year because the
the people at large who remained be-
Diet was dissoIved. At the extraordi-
hind made a really heroic determina-
nary session of the Diet in 1903, the
tion and persevering efforts. The en-
program was approved and towards the
tire nation. young and old, men and
end of the same year, a decision was
women, showed their readiness to take
reached to advance the completion of
up arms and go to the Manchurian
the program as the situation became
plains to fight to death. There are
exceedingly strained. In hastening the
even now a thousand and one beauti-
completion, the Imperial Navy sudden-
ful stories told about the heroic deeds
ly purchased two armored cruisers con-
of that time.
structed at Genoa in Italy for the Ar-
On the other hand, there were in
gentine Republic, which were named
Russia some people who doubted the
the Nisshin and Kasuga respectively.
motives of the action of their Govern-
Thus, the navaǐ strength of our Em-
ment in waging war against Japan.
pire reached a total tonnage of 240,000
Further, there were the nihilists who
tons compared with 320,000 tons for
were watching for a chance to launch
the Russian fleet scattered about in the
a revolt. As for the Baltic squadron,
Far East and the Baltic Sea, not in-
although as many as 38 men-of-war
cluding the Black Sea squadron. The
partieipated in the great expedition by
Japanese fleet was inferior in tonnage
coming half the way around the world,
to that of Russia but its main body
it tried to reach Vladivostok safely by
was composed of the new balanced
avoiding an encounter with the Japa-
squadron and in the matter of morale
nese fleet. Thus, the morale of the
and training, it was decidedly superior
officers and men of the Baltic squad-
to the Russian fleet. In this respect, it
ron was far from comparable to that
must be noted that like the Navy, the
of the officers and men of the Japa-
Army also steadily proceeded with all
nese fleet and even before hostilities
necessary preparations to meet the in-
were opened, it was clear that the vic-
creasingly critical Russo-Japanese
tory was for Japan.
situation, by strenuously working day
To sum up. the Japanese fleet won
and night in planning operations and
the Battle of the Japan Sea as it
vigorously drilling officers and men.
should win. Its achievements were by
no means accomplished by chance. It
Not a Chance Victory
may be repeated that the signal vic-
"By the grace of Heaven and Divine
tory was a result of the concentra-
Assistance, our Combined fleet fought
tion of the entire wisdom and ability
the 2nd and 3rd squadrons of the enemy
of the Japanese nation. When con-
on the Japan Sea on May 27 and 28
sidered in the light of the past, the
and succeeded in almost wiping them
victory must be said to be a crystal
out . .. ." This was the beginning of
of the tears and blood of the entire
the report made by Commander Togo
Japanese people, through ten long
on the Battle of the Japan Sea. The
years of hardship and privation. This
report concluded by saying: "The of-
valuable lesson must be handed down
ficers and men under my direction who
to posterity together with the brilliant
have worked most bravely all seem to
victory won on the Japan Sea.
be so deeply impressed at realizing
(To be Continued)
what has been achieved that they are
at a loss as to how to express them-
selves." Indeed, the outcome of the
Battle of the Japan Sea was such a
signal victory unprecedented in the his-
tory of sea battles as not only sur-
prised the whole world but also caused
the victors to feel as if in a dream.
It must be pointed out however that
the marvellous victory was not a mere
result of the Grace of Heaven and Di-
vine Assistance, for there were behind
the victory the plans of operations pro-
duced by brain-racking efforts made
by officers of the entire fleet day and
night and the painstaking drilling con-
ducted by the entire staff. Clever
strategy was aided by divine skill
while loyalty crystallized into the shell
that smashed the enemy's guns and pa-
triotism burst into flames that burned
the enemy's ships. Furthermore. the
officers and men who served on the
ships were backed by the unlimited en-
couragement given them, and by the
greatest confidence put in them by the
entire people united as one. Thus, the
human element was perfection and
added to it, there were the grace of
Heaven and Divine Assistance. It may
be said that even Heaven and God
could not but be moved by the loyalty
and faithfulness of the Japanese peo-
ple.

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.2, to despatch
No.2427, dated May 15, 1937.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Tuesday, Mayll, 1937.
AMERICAN AND BRITISH ECONOMIC
ADVANCE IN ASIA AFFECTS JAPAN
Development of Air Routes and Expansion of Naval
and Air Bases Have Bearing on Japanese Plans
Following is the second instalment
to the conclusion that a shipbuilding
of a translation of the pamphlet issued
race has commenced. A survey of
by the Navy Ministry on the occasion
prevailing conditions, however, makes
of the thirty-second anniversary of the
one feel that there is no telling whether
Battle of the Japan Sea which will be
,there will not be a naval construction
page on Thursday.
celebrated on May 27th. A third and
last instalment will appear on this
race in the future. As for the Im-
perial Navy, even if such an un-
fortunate event should occur, it would
Both the Washington and London
continue to work from an independent
naval treaties which restricted Japan
point of view for the perfection of its
armaments according to plans best
in naval armaments for 15 years since
suited to the conditions of the coun-
1922 expired at the end of last year
try, instead of following the example of
and now our Empire is no longer
others.
under any restraint whatsoever. In
Mention must be made of the fact
this connection, however, it must be
that our Empire has cast off the yoke
of the naval ratio because it wished
pointed out that our Empire has al-
to remove the brand of being inferior
ways been, and still is, hoping for the
to Great Britain and the United States
conclusion of a disarmament agreement
in naval armaments which are a symbol
capable of lightening the burdens of
of the national strength. To express
the people and contributing to world
it in another way, our Empire's freedom
peace, on fair basis in conformity with
is particularly significant in that it
the principle of "security of the na-
has thus advanced to a point of equality
with Britain and America. In this
tional defense first." For this reason,
sense, the advent of the non-treaty era
the Japanese delegation at the London
may be interpreted as a remarkable
Naval Conference of 1935 presented a
advance of the Japanese State, the
fair and equitable disarmament formula
Japanese people, and the Japanese
and sought the approval of the interest-
Navy.
ed Powers. It is a matter of com-
Whether this position which the Japa-
mon knowledge that this formula fail-
nese nation has reached at one bound
ed to be approved with the result that
will be secured permanently, thus
the Japanese Empire was forced to
facilitating the attainment of the great
withdraw from the naval conference on
aim of the Empire, depends entirely
January 15 last year.
upon the resolution and efforts of the
Disarmament Pact Wanted
people.
Nevertheless, our Empire's desire for,
Threat of Naval Race
and enthusiasm about, the conclusion
A naval construction race during the
of a real disarmament agreement re-
main unchanged even at the present
non-treaty era may. from a point of
time. It may be recalled that upon the
view, be regarded as a stage in the
withdrawal frcm the London Naval
process of the rapid expansion of the
Navy made a statement in the session
Conference of 1935, our Minister of the
national strength. We therefore must
of the Imperial Diet, expressing his
be firmly resolved to overcome any
hope that a new disarmament con-
sort of difficulties that may arise ahead
ference would be held as soon as
of us so that the glorious position in
possible and a fair and equitable dis-
which our Empire now finds itself may
armament treaty concluded.
increase in glory.
The Washington and London naval
The conditions now prevailing in
treaties marked an era for the Im-
Europe are said to be more uncertain
perial Navy in that, under the re-
and agitated than those which existed
strictions imposed by the treaties, it
immediately before the outbreak of the
had to overcome great difficulties
great World War. As a matter of fact,
in fulfilling its important mission con-
there is a delicate complication of
cerning national defense. Likewise, the
factors which are responsible for such
present non-treaty situation brought
conditions but it may not be amiss to
about by the expiration of the Wash-
assert that the European situation is
ington and London pacts marks an era
more strained than it should otherwise
for the Imperial Navy. For dealing
be on account of the developments sur-
with the new situation, further care-
rounding various issues arising from
ful consideration and grave determina-
the Versailles Peace Treaty, the cross-
tion are required.
ing of two great currents, one favoring
Of late, the Western Powers have
the maintenance of the status quo and
been vying with each other in for-
the other advocating reform, and the
mulating armament expansion programs
opposition between Fascism and anti-
and some of them have already started
Fascist ideas.
naval expansion on an enormous scale,
Germany, being vanquished in the
but as they are confronted with the
great war, was burdened with repara-
necessity of replacing super-annuated
tions reaching a prodigious sum and
capital ships, it would be rash to jump
her armament was extremely restricted
or almost prohibited. The result was

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.99)
it she was reduced to the status of
On the other hand, Italy, foreseting
forging ahead in national reccnsiruction.
the inability of the Ieague of Nations
and the insufficient power of Great
Britain and France, resolutely carried
to an amazing extent and are now
German people, however, have united
third-rate nation for a time. The
1936
1937
1935
1934
1933
1932
1931
1930
(In Pound Sterling) (In Dollars)
105,000,000
Great Britain
84,100,000
67,800,000
53,600,000
58,800.000
50,500,000
56,600,000
51,600.000
United States
482,000.000
599.000,000
583,000,000
436,000,000
406.000,000
368,000,000
329,000.000
383,000,000
aircraft-carrier, 8 A-class cruisers, 8 B-
most up-to-date ships have been: dis
patched to the Orient, there being one
fence works strengthened. Always the
Of laté, the British naval forces
gradually increased and the coast de
this sectór of the world have been
has 'a strong interest in the Orient
Needless to say, Britain traditionally
out an expedition against Ethiopia and
oNte:—1. The naval appropriation of
class cruisers, 19 destroyers and 15
in spite of economic sanctions imposed
the United States for 1937 include the
submarines at present attached to the
by the League of Nations, attained her
Industrial Reconstruction Fund carried
China, East India, Australia and New
long-cherished desire of 40 years
over from the preceding year.
Zealand squadrons. In addition, great
standing by annexing Ethiopia.
2. The naval appropriations of the
efforts are being made for the streng-
Further, a revolution broken out in
United States include appropriations for
thening of the naval establishments at
Spain in July last year, which
the Navy's air force.
Gibraltaf, 'Malta, Suez, Ceylon, Penang,
gradually developed to suçh an extent
3. The appropriations of Great
Singapore and Hongkong and the per-
as intensified the antagonism between
fection of the connections between
France and the Soviet Union, on one
Europe and Asia, especially perfection
hand and Germany and Italy, on the
Britain for the air force are shown in
of the establishments in and around.
other. The civil strife is still con-
the following table:
Singapore at a tremendous cost,
tinuing unabated and thus threatens to
1930
17,900.000
involving airdromes, large floating and
exercise a far-reaching influence upon
1931
18,100,000
dry docks and oil tanks, with a view
rearming and ever since various nations
the situation in Europe as a whole.
In the meantime, Germany started
1932
1933
1934
1935
17,400,000
17,400,000
20,400,000
29,200,000
to realizing a great base for forward
operations unparalleled in the world.
All these show how deeply interested
have been absorbed in armament ex-
1936
55.200,000
Great Britain is in conditions in the
pansion. Under these circumstances.
1937
88,600,000
Orient.
Great Britain has concluded an agrec-
Position of United States
Efforts for the expansion and per-
ment with Italy in regard to the
Mediterranean and also has announced
Aiming to become the largest in the
made on a very large scale. It is re-
fection of the air forces are also being
a large-scale program for the expansion
world, the Navy of the United States
ported that the present plan calls for
of her naval and air forces.
has been expanding rapidly. A total
a standing force of 4,000 planes by
Conditions in Asia
number of 154 ships with a total of
March, 1938. Efforts are being made
for the extension of air routes to the
What are the conditions in Eastern
approximately 450,000 tons are to be
Örient. There is no need to expec-
Asia, then? While our Empire has
completed by 1942 at a total cost of
tiate on the importance of the deve-
been making ceaseless efforts for the
¥1,158,000,000 dollars, all laid down
lopment of air routes along with the
stabilization of the situation in Eastern
since 1931. There figures cover the
expansion of naval forces.
Asia and for the maintenance of peace
remainder of the 1916-29 program, the
—it is a fact that the national
1933 program worked out with the In-
foundation of Manchukuo has been
dustria! Reconstruction Fund and the
consolidated and its development has
Vinson program of 1934 but do not
been progressing quite remarkably-our
include any new program formulated
neighbor, the Chinese Republic, is still
after 1936. Among the 154 ships. there
pursuing a policy of anti-Japanesc
are 4 aircraft-carriers, 15—A class
activities and the Soviet Union is
cruisers, 9 B-class cruisers, 85 de-
fervently engaged in armament ex-
stroyers, 34 submarines and 2 gun-
pansion, thus causing others to feel
boats. In addition, there are indica-
menaced. To make the situation worse.
tions that two capital ships of 35,000
Communism is also spreading.
tons each are scheduled to be laid
Meanwhile various European coun-
down during this first year of the non-
tries and the United States have be-
treaty era.
come more deeply interested in Eastern
Furthermore, efforts are being made
Asia and besides the maintenance of
for strengthening the defense works
their rights and interests, have been
at the naval bases in the Pacific,
carrying out an aggressive economic
especially the establishments at Hawaii
advance in this sector of the world.
and the Pearl Harbor. All these
Particularly noteworthy are the efforts
activities, together with the construction
heing made for the development and
of large movable floating docks, must
extens:on of air routes and for the
be considered as preparations for
establishment and expansion of air
operations in the Pacific.
bases as well as other activities towards
What is of great importance in this
armament expansion.
connection is the program for ex-
The fact that the situation in Eastern
panding the air force. Naval planes
Asia has also come to assume an ex-
which number 1,300 at present are to
traordinary aspect is too clear to re-
be increased to 1,900 by 1939 while
quire detailed explanation.
military planes are to be increased to
In consideration of the latest inter-
2,300 by 1940.
national conditions, the various Powers
Position of Great Britain
have all ceen emphasizing tie recessity
for a reduction of armaments. In spite
Great Britain laid down the keels of
of such an attitude, they seem, one
only 94 ships with a total of 260,000
and all, to be assiduously working for
tons from 1931 until the end of last
the expansion and perfection of their
year, including one aircraft-carrier, 19
armaments. The expansion of military
B-class cruisers, 54 destroyers and 20
and air forces is progressing remark-
submarines. Beginning with this first
ably. As regards naval forces, they
year of the non-treaty era, however,
are engaged principally in the execu-
she will carry out a five-year program
tion of the previously worked out pro-
for the strengthening of her national
grams because the non-treaty era has
defense at a total cost of £1,500,000,000
just set in, but nevertheless it is an
through a rapid expansion of her Navy
with a view to maintaining her supre-
indisputable fact that everywhere there
is a sentiment pointing to naval ex-
macy at sea. The 1936 and 1937 pro-
pansion.
grams provide for the laying down of
Before proceeding further, let us ex-
the keels of over 100 ships including 5
amine the apppropriations of Great
capital ships, 14 cruisers, 4 aircraft-
carriers, 34 destroyers, 15 submarines
Britain and the United States during
and a' humber of gunboats and special
the past seven years as tabulated be-
service ships.
low:

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.3, to despatch
No.2427, dated May 15, 1937.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Thursday, May 13, 1937.
SOVIET REAPPEARANCE AS NAVAL
POWER DEEPLY CONCERNS JAPAN
Baltic Squadron Can Join Far Eastern Squadron by
Way of Arctic Presenting New Naval Problem
Following is the third and last in-
upholds as has been announced more
stalment of a translation of the
than once. At the same time, this
pamphlet issued by the Navy Ministry
program aims at the perfection of the
in commemoration of the thirty-second
most effective armaments that would
Sea which will be celebrated on May
anniversary of the Battle of The Japan
best conform to the conditions in our
27th.
Empire and suit the characteristics of
, our nation from an entirely independent
The Imperial Japanese Navy cannot
point of view.
but be deeply concerned over the
It must be noted that the position of
charge created in the naval situation
our Empire in the Orient is such that
the rise or fall of the State and the
in the East by the plan of the Soviet
race depends upon whether the situa-
Union, which was for a time excluded
tion in Eastern Asia is stabilized or
from the naval problem of the world,
not. That is absolutely a question of
life or death. Accordingly, it is
to reconstruct its Far Eastern squadron.
necessary that the armed force of our
It is understood that at present the
Empire for national defense should be
Soviet Union has upwards of 60 sub-
sufficient to repulse any attempt of any
marines, more than 10 destroyers and
cour.try to disturb the tranquility in
nearly 100 torpedo boats in Far Eastern
Eastern Asia. The Imperial Navy must
waters, while the coast of the Maritime
be so equipped as to be able to defeat
any foreign fleet that would invade the
Province centering around Vladivostok
is equipped with strong defenses. As
Western Pacific.
In view of the geographical conditions
regards the connections between Europe
of our Empire in the Orient, it is by
and Asia, a successful trial navigation
was conducted in 1935 along the Arctic
no means impossible for our Empire to
route which is only half the distance
gain control of Oriental waters lin
order to insure her nationaǐ defense by
of the Indian Ocean route. In view
of the fact that large ice-breakers have
making the most of her geographical
recently been constructed, there is
advantages. In this respect, it may be
growing a possibility of the Baltic
repeated that the new replenishment
program of the Imperial Navy, though
Squadron joining the Far Eastern
Squadron at any time except in m:d-
providing for the minimum armaments
winter. Thus, it cannot be overlook-
situation, is aimed at the perfection
required for dealing with the current
ed that the danger of the Russian
of the most efficient armaments.
squadrons being defeated separately is
lessening. (During the Russo-Japanese
Teachings of Admiral Togo
War, the Russian squadrons were de-
"....It is my belief that the life
feated one by one by the Japanese
Fleet because they were isolated from
of a man of arms is an unbroken and
each other.)
continual battle and that therefore there
As already mentioned, the conditions
should be no change in his sense of
of the naval armaments of the various
duty either in time of peace or in time
Powers always exercise a far-reaching
influence upon the armaments of our
of war. The only course for him to
Empire. It therefore is necessary that
follow is to make constant efforts for
our Empire should constantly pay great
the performance of his duty by giving
attention to the cnanges occurring in
fulf play to his ability as a man of
such conditions.
arms in time of war and devoting
Status of Navies
himself to training and cultivation in
With the international situation and
time of peace. .
"If the men of arms should become
the conditions of the navies of the
temporizers in time of peace, armaments
various Powers as we have already
would collapse like a castle built on
described, it is the natural duty of the
the sand at the blast of gale however
Imperial Navy to formulate a prudential
firmly it might appear to stand. This
policy to cope with the non-treaty era
we should be very cautious about....
in conformity with international con-
By always assiduously cultivating our
ditions and also in consideration of the
real power to provide against
tendency of the navies of the various
emergencies, we hope that we may be
Powers, so that our Empire may ful-
able to discharge our great duty of
fil its great mission as the stabilizing
protecting our Empire for all time.
influencc in Eastern Asia. thereby en-
Heaven confers the crown :of victory
suring its existence and facilitating its
only upon those who constantly train
future expansion. It is for the purpose
themselves and thus are assured of
of perfecting the minimum armaments
victory even before fighting actually
required for dealing with the non-
takes place and immediately takes back
treaty situation that the Imperial Navy
the crown from those who, being
worked out a new replenishment pro-
satisfied with a single victory, become
gram during the present fiscal year.
In other words, the new replenish-
forgetful of the wise proverb: 'Let the
temporizers in time of peace. Be not
is wholly based on the spirit of self-
ment program of the Imperial Navy
victor look to the Taces of his helmet.'"
defense and as such contains nothing
These remarks were contained in the
that would challenge other countries
to a naval building race. It has its
geve to his subordinates upon their dis-
instructions which Commander Togo
keynote in the principle of "non-menace
charge from emergency service on
and non-aggression' which our Empire
December 21, 1905, after performing

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
their great duty of restoring peace
following the signal victory of the com-
the enemy fleet in time of war. This
bined Fleet over the Russian squadron
mission of the Imperial Navy concerns
in the Battle of the Japan Sea. Al-
emergencies but it must be noted that
though our national hero, Fleet-Admiral
the Imperial Navy also has an im-
Heihachiro Togo, is now no more, these
portant mission in time of peace to
teachings of his still live in the hearts
prevent war by perfecting its
armaments and thus causing other
of all officers and men of the Imperial
countries to abandon hostile designs.
Navy, forming their belief in certain
In view of this fact, it must be said
victory and constituting the keynote
that naval armaments will be unable
of the spirit of our national defense.
to attain their aim unless they are
Now we are in a non-treaty era which
powerful enough to free our Empire
requires our efforts to perfect our
from foreign menace. In. other words,
armaments by mobilizing the entire
imperfect armaments not only are
wisdom and ability of the nation, con-
unable to make national defence secure
centrating the essence of our industrial
in time of war but are liable to lead
power, applying the best of the most
to useless war on account of a loss
up-to-date science, adding new devices
of balance.
and inventions to our superior
There is no doubt but that the people
technique and providing the most
at large will keenly feel the urgent
superior ships and weapons. At the
necessity of perfecting our armaments
same time, we are confronted with the
in view of the surroundings of our
necessity of preparing for instant dis-
Empire if they have a proper know-
play of the highest efficiency by
ledge of the conditions now prevailing
exerting ourselves in education and
in the world and fully appreciate the
training, thus cultivating our real
importance of our national defense.
power. In this respect, the Imperial
History shows that those nations which
Navy is working in such a manner
have firmly united themselves for self-
as to leave nothing to be desired. There
defense have grown while those which
have been some who have met their
have failed to realize such unity have
death in line of duty, which is the high
declined.
price we pay for the preparation against
When we reflect upon the Russo-
cmergencies and which is illustrative
Japanese War, we cannot but feel an
of the conviction and morale of the
increasing admiration for the great
Imperial Navy.
achievements accomplished by our
elders who attained their aim in war.
Perfect Unity Needed
It is but natural that their achieve-
In order to display the highest ef-
ments in saving the Orien: from the
ficiency on the battlefield, it is essential
great crisis by defeating such a big Pow-
er as Russia should have caused the
that technical training should be con-
entire world to be wonder-struck be-
ducted. What is more essential, how-
cause at that time, industry in our
ever, are unity and control based on
Empire was still in its infancy, the
greatest spiritual power, and the be-
financial resources of the country were
scanty and the armaments of the nation
lief in certain victory.
imperfect, although there was the grace
Wha! is perfect merely in outward
of Heaven and the Divine assistance. A
form, in machinery and technique, is
careful study of the circumstances
nothing more than an earthen image
surrounding the signal victory of our
which can serve no purpose in case of
Empire, however, will not fail to clarify
emergency. This belief is now per-
the fact that the great achievements
meating all officers and men of the Im-
were not accomplished by mere chance.
perial Navy in this non-treaty era. It
As has already been stated, our Em-
is our belief that the Imperial Navy,
pire won the signal victory in the
being determined to train for full ef-
Battle of the Japan Sea on the strength
ficiency in time of war while devoting
of unity and cooperation of the entire
itself to peace-time work, will never
nation, young and old, men and wo-
disgrace the glorious victory of the
men. Indeed the achievements were a
Battle of the Japan Sea.
gift of the really painstaking efforts
made by the whole Japanese nation.
In a sense, national defense is an
The glorious victory of the Imperial
expression of the national spirit and
Navy in the Battle of the Japan Sea
reflects the character of the people.
determined the outcome of the Russo-
No matter how superior and perfect
Japanese War and thus enabled the
the materials are and how well trained
restoration of peace in a short while.
and skilled in technique officers and
men at the front are, it is impossible
Grave Crisis Ahead
to expect perfection in national defence
In view of the conditions now
if the people at large who remain be-
prevailing in Europe and also in con-
hind the battle line are lacking in
sideration of the present situation in
proper knowledge of national defense
Eastern Asia and in the Pacific, it is
in a firm determination and belief. The
necessary that we should calmly realize
officers and men of the Imperial Navy
and examine the fact that our Empire
who stand in the first line of the na-
is confronted with a new crisis sur-
tional defense are always ready to
passing the old one in gravity. It is
sacrifice themselves for the sake of the
our firm belief that the people should
country and at the same time hope
for the absolute confidence and support
unité as firmly as possible in order to
of the people at large.
overcome this crisis. We have nothing
An organic combination of the entire
else to rely upon for the protection of
nation is a prerequisite to the modern
our Empire, than our own strength.
national defense. Such an organic
We pray that the entire nation be
combination must be formed by the
roused to insure the perfect security
Yamato-damashii or Nippon spirit
and"growth of our Empire and to
which is unique in the world, the wis-
protect the glorious history and
dom of the people and their strong
tradition of the country by joining
and agile physical strength as well as
hands in dealing with this non-treaty
their training on the basis of modern
situation. We feel all the more ardent
science, their proper knowledge of na-
in praying for this when we recollect
tional defence and their firm belief.
the event of 32 years ago and remind
Efficient Arms Needed
ourselves of the teachings of our na-
tional hero, the late Fleet-Admiral
Needless to say, the aim of naval
Heihachiro Togo.
armaments is to insure the perfect
security of our Empire by defeating

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENTFILE
NOTE
CC
SEE500.A.15.a.5/900
FOR
#2483
C1
FROM 
Japan
(Grew
) DATED June 25..1937.
TO
NAME
REGARDING:
Japan's recent refusal to accept the proposal of the
American Government relating to the limitation of calibre of guns for capital
ships was not unexpected. To have done otherwise would have been inconsiatent
with the entire Japanese conception of naval disarmament and with her naval policy.
G

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
793.94/10895
SEE
FOR
elegren
894.30
FROM
Navy Department
(
) DATED
Cet 20, 1037
TO
NAME
1-1127
Sino-Ja anese conflict: Vice Admiral lororuto-Yoda civen sea
REGARDING:
assi nent of undisclosed nature. Ruwmors are that he is to
cormmand Fourth Fleet. Conjectures as to latter's mission
2
are protection of Japanese fishin- interests if fishing
agreement is not extended nd protection of west coast of
Japan against Soviet threat to enter present conflict.
F/MR
TRG.
11
2

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
MBo
This mEssagE Was rEcEivEd
Alusna Tokyo
in navy codε ans must bE
closEly paraphrased bEfore
October 29, 1937
bEing communicated to anyonE.
REc'd 10:45 a.m.
FROM:
ALUSNA TOKYO
note
TO:
NAVY DEPARTMENT
.30
INFO:
CINCAF
894.
O028 ThE rEcent chief of Bureau of Military Affairs
793.94112
VicE Acmiral Soyemuto-Yoda has bEEn given a sea assignmEnt
thE naturE thereof Navy DEpartment states cannot bE disclosed
.C
Except is a most important and difficult position. Rumors
arE that hE is to comand fourth fleEt. Conjectures as to
(11
latter's mission arE protection Jap fishing interEsts if
fishing agrEEment not extended and protection west coast
Janan against Soviet threat EntrancE presEnt conflict.
BlockadE prevents supply munitions to China by third powers.
Occupation Tainan as basE bombing opEration landing at
Haichow or singtao 1630.
CSB:
0
8
0
5

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE894.20/201
FORe
FRoMState Dept. FE
) DATED Jana5,l93S.Rec!d.
894.30/11
TO
NAME
1-1127
aPO
REGARDING:
The Imperial recepts to The Soldiers and Sailors (Japan).
3
M

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.30/
SEE
793.94/12919
FOR
Tel t589,2pm
FROMShanghai
Lockhart
) DATEDApr.27,.1938
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING: Vice Admiral K. Hasegawa, Commander-in-Chief of Japanese
China Sea Fleet, to be succeeded by Vice dmi ral K. Oikawa.
Reports other recent transfers.
wb

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
HM
PLAIN AND GRAY
nate
Shanghai via N.R.
894.30
Dated April 27, 1938
REc'd 1:22 p.m.
Secretary of StatE,
Washington.
589, Anri1 27, 2 p.m.
ThE transfer of VicE Admiral K. HasEgawa, Commander-
in-Chief of thE JapanEsE China SEa FlEEt, has bEEn
announced. Other naval transfers includE Rear Admiral
7
R. Sugiyama, Admiral HasEgawa's Chief of Staff, Rear
Admiral T. Honda, former Naval AttachE to thE JapanesE
6
Embassy and REar Admiral D. Ohkoch, CommandEr of thE
人
JapanesE Naval Landing Party sincE thE commencement of
hostilitiEs herE. Neither thesE officers' nEw posts
nor their successors werE announced.
2
It has bEen learned, howEver, from American Naval
16
sources that VicE Admiral K. Oikawa is to succEEd
9
Admiral HasEgawa. Admiral Oikawa was in command of
thE JapanesE SEcond China fleEt prior to thE outbreak
of hostilities and upon thE appointment of Admiral
Hasegawn procEEded to Tokyo wherE hE has bEEn Chief
of thE BurEau of Naval AEronautics. HE is said to
bE an

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.97)
-2- #589, pri1 27, 2 p.m.
bE an Excell mt naval officer, a strict disciplinarian
and to get along with foreigners fairly well. Admiral
Oikawa is Expected to arrivE herE shortly.
Repeated to Hankow and PEiping.
LOCKHART
CSB

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.99)
84420
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
793.94/13810
Despatch #29
SEE
FOR
FROM
Batavia
Dickover
DATED
Aug.22,1938.
TO
NAME
1-1127
894.30/1
REGARDING:
Japanese Navy must justify its existence to the Japanese
people: This is opinion of Netherlands Indies officials,
who fear that Japan may eventually press forward and
attack in the south.
aa
5

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.95)
Division of
NOV-B719
FAR EASTERN AFFAIBS
NOV 25 1933
900 - Navy.
Report No. 161.
902 - P011ay
Detober 31, 1933
Deprartment of State
100 - Basie Polioy.
Japan.
Naval Polioy.
94.30 6NI
The following is given as the fundamental plan
of the Jop nese Navy. This policy is reported to have
been approved by the Premier, Foreign Minister, Finance
894.30
Minister. War Minister and Navy Ministerm, at conferences
recently.
(1) Absolute parity in armaments shall be
olaimed at the limitation of armaments conferenee in
1935. hould the conference fa11 to reach an agree-
-O.N.1
ment, we will not hesitate to enter into an inter-
national race for naval construction. We will be free
under such ciroumstances to build veseels suited to
meet our requirements.
(2) The replenishment programs now contem-
REPORTS
plated are for the sole purpose of defending the Empire.
e do not contemplate aggressive or orfensive policies.
(3) We must prepare for 1935. At that time
Japan's withdrawal from the League ta es effeot and the
uestion or the Mandate Ialonds will come up. e must
be prepared to fight to retain them, if necessary.
(4) The second replonishmont program is
nevessury to prepare for the next conferonce. we must
de ovorything pos ible to of'sot the handicaps under
which we are placed by the ondon and Washington Treaties.
ONI. Memorandum
The above appears to be Japanese Navy home propaganda
as appearing in the press.
NOV 27 1933

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.92)
OUT
DESCRIPTION OF ITEMS CHARGED
OFFICE AND PERSON
DAT OF CHARGE AND
Subject, file number or title, type of docunent, and date,
TO WHOM CHARGED
BY WH&M CHARGED
security classification, number of items, etc.)
HD
2/27/58
de
7701a
lelrltli.e
10/24
798
atti
2/4/69
Dourecy
178
73-76
2/2
N. I/ 1
Brunnen
4-17
DS-1033 (3-2-54)
USE OTHER SIDE-CANCEL CHARGE OUT WHEN FILES RETURNED
10—70009-1
GPO

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.98)
ED BY OFFICE OF NAVAL INTELLIGENCE, NAVY DEPARTMENT
ATTACHÉ'S REPORT BLANK
Ave copies (original and four qarbops); this number is necessary because of the limited personnel in O. N. I and because of the urget.
ainating information from attadhés. These eoples will be distributed by O. N. I. as per footnote or elsewhere, according to subject matter.
Date.
File No.
Brussels
Jan.10
34
(Commence new series
(Select proper number
Source of information
eatlrJanuary first)
from O. N. I. index)
reliable
Subject
(Nation reported on)
Belgium ( NETHERLANDS
Reference
space. Mention leading geographical, personal, or political names, and the gist of the report)
WESTERN EUROPEAR AFFAIRS
DIVISION
his
Japanese naval policy, extonsion of Japanese
the
Notherlands in case of war in the Pacific
894.30-0.
The following is the summary of ar artiole by Captain J. Th. Furstner
Director of the High Naval  chool, Holland, on the present position of the
Netherlands in the Pacific regions as compared with 1914:
The Pacific problen is consensus ommium the question of preponderant
importance to the existence of our people. The ties between Netherland and the
Indies should be maintained and strengthened. On this point all good patriots
are agreed. The question is, however. what measures shouid oe taken to preserve
in the uture that unity of the Realm which is so indispensable to the exis ence
REPORTS/2
of our people.
From a political poi t of view. that future bears an extromely dark aspe
because in t e last few years ominous stora clouds have een gathering over the
Pacific. Already. a few lightning flashes have illuminated the disturbed waters
of the "Pacifio." I refer to the war, which must not be called a war, in
Manchuchuo; to the air bombardment which caused Shanghai to go up in flames and
the fighting which has tane place between the Japanese troops and the chinese
soldiers -- or should I say "bandits" -- at Jehol. The rumbling in the atmos-
phere of the Far East was noticeable in the threatening voice of the Japanese
Minister for War, Araki, when he said: "We shall puraue the course we have marked
out without taking hotfce of those attacks"( of public opinion all over the
world ) and in the statement of the Japanese naval authorities: " The mandate
islands must remain in our possession...... Should any Power attempt to modify
the present position, we shall refute such attempt by force of arms."
It is said that history repeats itself. The constellation in Asia begins
to show a sinister resemblance to that in Europe in the decade between 1904 and
1914. Like imperial Germany at that time, Japan is now the rapidly developing
industrial country, whioh in view of the com ercial politioal difficulties re-
sulting from its efforts to find fresn markets, believes that it may strongthen
its position by following a prestige polioy.
For the s ke of that prestige policy. a stro g German army and a powerful
German war fleet worec created. Japan, with a tate expenditure of two milliard
yen, now spends no less than 1.055 million yen on its army and navy.
In Europe, the strengthening of the German navy led to an increase in
Amerioa's decision to spend 238 million dollars of the unemployment nd fr the
building of 43 new wareraft. The Europe of 1904 - 19l4 inoluded a tef itory where
by stirring up internal disorders, it was possible to fish in troubl waters.
and where, in fact, impostant results could be achieved with a prestite pliey.
I am referring to the Balkans, to the intrigues of the great powers in the Balkan
wars, to the oooupation of Bosnia and Horsegowina by Austria-Hungary in l908.
whieh was enly possible by the rattling of the German sabre. Unfortunately. the
Far East also kmows a country which can play the fatal role played by the Balkan
where in l9l4 the spark was created whioh caused the explosion in the powder
Draw elrole around the dossination of i
A-B-C-D-E
College
M.I.D. Nav.
Ord.
Y.&D.
C.&R.
Eng.
S.&A.
M.&s.
M.C.
U.S.

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.97)
A.,Brussels
Jan.10. 1934
33 - 2
Is it still necessary for me to refer to resemblance between
the strategie concentration of the British Navy in the North Sea in
1907 - 1912, and the transfer of the American Navy to the Paoifie; the
fortifioation of San Diego, Pearl Marbor in Hawaii, Singapore, etc.? Or to
mention the diplomatic rapprochement between Aneriee and Russ ia, mich is to
this day Japan's greatest opponent  che continent of Asia? Is it
necessary for me to puote newspaper articies whion prove that Japul feels this
polioy as an encircling move ent, just as i. l9l4 Germany folt "encireled"
by the co-operation between Prance, Russia, and reat Britain:
No one can predict with absolute cer ainty that the ragie end
of the period in European history referred to wil be repeated in the Far
East. We may hope for the best; we may cherish in our ovm hearts our ideal of
Peace by ustice -- but we cannct chunge to uny ex elt, the course of affairs.
We may, however. i: fluence the minor co sequences of events all
over the wor d which follow their catural course. Those minor corsequences
which affect us ersona ly as a people, depend on our own attitude and our own
measures.
In 1914, the advancirg German armies avoided the hetherlands
frontiers, although they approached them to within a few meters. This was in
the very first place the reason why the etherlends were abie to remain neutral
despite its exposed situation. How was that possible?
The well-known schlieffen plan of attack ine nded an advance of
the right wing of tne Germman army vin Koermond, thus, vio ation of Netnerlands
neutrality. The original Schlieffen plan, however, was altered long before
19l4 by his successor, General von Moltke. That well-considored alteration in
the strategical plan was for tnis country of enormous importance. fhe original
plan was vased on the supposition that the advance through hether ands Limburg
would not oe impeded by the hetherlunds army. As a matter of fact, prior to
1905, the army in the Netherlands was exclusively intended for te defence of
the new Holland water line. Phet plan consisted, as soon as the Netnerlands
became involved in war, of evacuating te frontier provinces, inundating the
low-lying country from Utrecht to the Lek and defonding tne forts of the
water-line. The Metnerlands pian. therefore, was exactly het the Cerman
General Staff stated when it wrote tuat the Hollanders would " sich verkriechen
hinter den Utrecht Linien."
As long as the Netherlands created on outsiders the impression
that it intended to renain absolutely passive in the case of an eventual
conflict. the Schlieffen pla. was iu Germany regarded the aone of wisdom. When,
however, in the years 1905 - 1907, incidental to a reorganization of the
Netherlands army, a sep rate field army of four divisions was formed, with a
command and staff, eto. of its owm, the Sehlierfen plan was revised in such a
manner as to respect Holland's neutrality.
The man beat caleulated to know, General von Moltke himself.
states in his posthumous "Errinerungen": --
"so far, my idea ooincided witn that of count Sohlisffen. In the
carrying out of the scheme there was a difference. The advance planned by my
predecessor was arranged in sueh a manuer that the right wing of the Ggrman
army would mareh via Roermond. It had thus not only to cross the Belgian, but
also Netherlands territory."
"Count Sohlieffen believed that Holland would confine itself
to a written protest, but for the rest would calmly acquissoe in the vio-
lation of its territory. I had the most serious objeotions to that idea. I did
not believe that Holland would calmly allow its territory to be violated. On
the contrary. I foresaw that such strong forees would have to be withdrawn
from the right wing of the German army to keep the then hostile Hollanders in
check, that the attacking strength of those troops against France would be
seriously impaired. "

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.98)
A.,Brussels
Jan.10.1934
33 - 3
The change in the German conception which proved such e blessing
to us, was solely the result of the institution and development of the
"field army". the mobile operative organ of our defensive forces ir Europe.
History. the crystallized experience of others, should be studied in
order to derive fro it lessons for te fu ure. what lessor should be extracted
from the preceding. suitable for application to Laitch I dia in the present cir-
oums tanoes?
In a co flict in the Pacific, our Indios are of interest to eventual
belligerents, owing to the supply of fuel oil and as a ter itory in which points
of support might oe created for a commercial war. It will be very difficult for
any belligerent who had vioia ed our  outra ity. to protect the lires of comm-
unication between its base and some eventually occupied Netherlands Indian
port, as those lines of comunication alons which oil or provisions would have
to be transported, are thousands of mi: es long.
The highest army com and, General v 1 oltke, considered the penace
to the lines of communication of the Cerman army of l. million men, by a
mobile Wetherlands field army of 95.000 ren impermissibie and the risk too
great. For this reason the fieid army in question had first to be defeated, but
this would have reduced the foroes of the cer an ar y to such an extent that it
would nave seriously impaired its capacity to attack Prance.
How much greater would that risk be for a belligerent who violated 
our territory in the Indies, if an extrenely mobile operative organ of the
Nether ands defensive forces exists intact in tne Indian Archinelago.
 have more than once pointed out that an operative organ of two
oruisers, eight destroyers and trelve submarines, with the necessary aircraft,
would create a very great risk for any navy which would ave to proteet the
lines of conmmunication oetween some far distart country and our oil vorts or
points of support in our aro ipelago. A foreign Admiral chargod with that
diffioult task might therefore, as did von toltke in l9l4,aim at first dereating
the operative organ in question. Even if hovever, he should for that purpose
withdraw very important forces from the main field of operation to our territ-
orial waters in the East, it would be precticaliy impossible, in suoh an extonsiv
area, to overhaul and dostroy our oruisers and destroyers with a speed of
thirty knots and over, and our submarines, which oan always seek safety by
submerging. These would remain a menace, however numerous the opponents may be.
By an aotion on an extensive scale , the enemy's Admiral might, perhaps, deprive
us of part of our scouting air craft -- I refer here to the larger maohines
which cannot be carried on board ship but have to denend for support on bays
and small is ands, which are raturally open to seizure. Here, however, the
strategioal idee of "liason des armes" plays a role. In faot, the presence of 
our artillery ships in the Archipelago would make it a dangerous game for an
Admiral to distribute his forees for the purpose of searohing our thousands of
bays. These cruisers may with efficient preparation remain for months without
touching a base, in the same waym as the German turbine cruiser "Karlsruhe"
did during the world war.
Any aocurate analysis of the situation made by tho naval comanand
of a belligerent nation would prove that in the case of a perfeetly prepared
Netherlands navy it would be wiser not to violate our noutrality in the indies,
to keep the commereial war out of our territorial waters and to outain the
neeessary fuel oil partly from other, if more distant sourees and partly from
our neutral ports, or to bring to development at heavy expense other areas of
production, such as Russian Saohnlin, anohuko, eto.
The position is not hopeless. Doubtless, if a war should break out
in the Paeifie, strong interests would prompt the violation of our neutrality.
but we have the means at our disposal to resist any attack. These consist in
the maintenanee of our operative force at its present strength, well-manned and
well trained. It is no use juggling with words. A foree consisting only of

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.95)
N.A..Brussels
Jan.10, 1934
33-4
submarines, for example, should not be called an operative organ, much less
one exolusively or chiefly composed of aircraft. The cruisers form an
indispensable element. ithout cruisers, our navy wou d lose muen of its
preventive effect, because then any violator of our eutrality.could simply
send us any ships nfit for use ugainst his chief opponest  sueh as
Ihe mainte ance of our position in tne In ies naturally depends
on many factors, on a just and ef ective rule. on tre preservation of peace
and order ( for which a colon ial army is intis ensable ): on toe cutting
down of all superfluous expense i tre Goverr ent service; or a deerease in
the burden of pensions; on the maintenance of te uropean cultures; on the
energy with which fresn marrets are found, ete. It will. pernaps, be possible
to retrnnch still furtner on tne Navy. Care snould be taken, nowever, not to
impair the preventive effect f cur dofensive forces, because there exists
obvious symptoms of a co: stellatior witn regard to xnich in future years
the presence of suer preve ti.e efree a ve decisive for the wetherlands.
In lol the Methrt ds wnir tai ed their eutrality. not by fixed
lines of defence, but by its obile operative rgan. In che same way. in an
eventual Pacific war, utch ndia mway e kept outside the strugple not
exelusively by local daienoe of the most exposed points, but first of all
by the presence of a nobile operative force. tnat is to say an ocean-going
squadro of  e present ar. o ions vomosition. Decerioration of the fighting
ve ue of t is force nd tht.  ret istn  future, resu t in a war
bot for Tetherlard und the i cies.

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.94)
fM
ISSUED BY OFFICE OF NAVAL INTELLIGENCE, NAVY DEPARTMENT
ATTACHÉ'S REPORT BLANK
aisseminating information from attachés. These copies will be distributed by O. N. 1. as per footnote or elsewhere, according to subject matter.
Na/Tokye Date Apr11 19, 19 35 Serial No. 98
File No.907=1700.
From
(Commence new series
each Jaluary first)
(Select proper number
from O. N. I. index)
Source of information
Subject
(Nation reported on)
Japan.
Navy- Uperations.
Internetionalgreements
Armements.
(Subtitle)
Reference
Brigr.—(The review, indexing, and distribution of reports by O. N. I. will be greatly expedited if a brief summary of the contents is entered in this
space. Mention leading geographical, personal, or political names, and the gist of the report)
Forwarding Franslation of artiele from Gaiko Jino
on the subjeet of Nevel Ratios.
There is forwarded herewith a trenaletion frem the Gaiko
srin
Jiho (Diplomatie Revue) written by Captain Mekine, I.J.. on
the subjeet of Naval Ratios.
It is worthy of note that in the ar:iole the writer states
that the "most effeetive moans of security lies in armaments
rather than in trenties" and "fortwnately at the time of the
894.30
IAIAAO
hanghei and Munchurian ineidente the Japanese Navy was not
inforior to the navies of other countries conoorned in these
affairs, thereby averting danger - other navies (meaning, of
course the United stetes Navy) were not built up to treaty
Japanese peeple to "stand firmly together in spito of any
campsign or intrigue against Japen" there may be diseerned a
fear thet possibly a long postponement of the conferenee may
work unfaverably for the extreme radieal naval group - those
whe wish to be frep of all naval treeties.
RE
794.30-0N1
ORTS/
DVISION OF
ISTEPNOPEAN AFFAIRS
CJ
-7
ED
35
spaces below are fer ase in O. N. I.
all coples.
Draw circle around the destination ef the copy latended for the partioalar destinatiom so encircled.
Directer
Sec. A-B-C-D-E-F
Deak C-1, C-2, C-3, C-4,
Fle
Badget
Board
Colloge
Wa
M.J.D.
Nav.
Ord.
Y.&D.
C.&R.
Eng.
S.&A.
M.&S.
Aero.
M.C.
U.S.
H.O.
C-5, C-6, C-7
Inven-
Commander in Chiof
Commander S.S.S.
Attaché at

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.90)
Insistamoe on nferiority or leets for  the s regnant
with bangorous osibilitien for orld
Conolusions euohed y condon Tinus Tokyo orre pondont
mplornble impiyine Vtim to piit in
Junese inion.
Bypin 
f the ublioity surenu or ce yfice
Tranelnted from t "aiko Jiho"
Iamuod pril. 1.
Japen's busic principles on ur reluc ion have been
roelaimed from tim to tim since the b sinnine of the
preliminary converstlon t London l t yeer.
Thus
von a deneloek of the pourparler would in no  y lo to
any lesaenin in Jepan's demen's.
e rirly blieve tht
the Japamene derande are equitable nd fair the only
preetieal formuln for recohin an inpartiel naval aereement
It ia irrational to aliot dirferent r tira t the
navies of Japan, rent Trit in and tho nited tates, the
prinoipal merchent merine as wel: as nava: powers or the
world, whone w ships have been so aorornised ns to be able
to operate with grest mobility nywhere on te hiah es.
The allotaent i en infuri r retio thun con titut s 
conatant threct t the ceourity an rogrens  the nstionn
so treeted, while the attitude a matives o a power which
attompts to foroe suel irratione: rotios upon othera are
open to doubt.
The rosult can only orcate Lll-feeline
amons nations, and bonofit the  countrle wich are in-
olined to me dling poliolen or are bont on gain by playing
off one o untry nee in"t another.
The re ultant situe
tion 1e prognant wlth dang rous po ibilitien of earryine
the nationm imto en unnee smry wer.
In the evont  a war, the nation with inforior navel
power wil: be oompelled to anmuge in ho tilltien und r the
moss diamdmntmgoous condit ion", beona se of her total
imab lity of making up for muen inforiority within a short
space of tim.
Thie may not be n metter  f comcern to
others, but it 1s a serious problom with which Jn an 1
fmoo to faoo today.
cur readiness to coneludo e fuir ane rotiomml cisarmm-
ment agreement with al: vinoerity does not bind un to smb-
mit to irrational and unjuxtifiable donands on tre a rt of
others.
we prefer rasher to remain wi thout any trenty
at ail shen to be subjeated to sueh an embarransing positi os
Japam should have a maval armaments highly efficient fer
defemsive purpeses and conalssent wi th her national status,
sharaoter and eiroumotemses to home and abroad.
dimt or sueh armmment, we mmst be preparod to offeet umy
unreasonable pressure on the part cf t c foreign Fowers
whieh may be brought upon her, thu: inouring for Japan at
-1-

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.88)
fo freedom from three of coereion.
To aoquire armamonts necemeary for notional defease
a right imherent to amy indepemdent country, not liable
to the interference f other m tions.
Ne omel er
meats have relstive beering, however, on thoee or othera.
me Japam proposes to come to an agreement on e maximm
maval stresgth euei to that of eny of the stronge t maval
Powers, but to keop down muoh mnximmum limit: to as low 
level ea possible in order that the lmadins rewers take the
imitiative in reducing the amvel ermaments of the world.
o propose further that orfensive  uipment, expable a
powerful attaox operetions, should be tate ly sbolished, or
redueed te the mimimmm extent if impossibis to cbolish,
while, on the other hane, defemsive e ulpment be provided to
auak an extent am may not :onstituts a thrmrt to othere end
may proteet oae froms the cgresslon of others, in en endeevor
to give all nationa  sense of permament  efenaive pesurity to
reduee the tex burdons of all peoples, mo t e  bi ish
en urins o aee throughout the soric.
The proposition permi of no cr t.  e cennot
oe why the other notlon: abou not oneur 1 th Jepe on
teae jussiriebi pranciple.
heir fllure to do mo ean
oaly be taken a nint  e et inrts  werld peee.
ere la no donyin thet th ultinu te und moat erfective
fegsor mmouring the seourity f e urtion lies in sramments.
resaily be diare  ried et uny time in s e or nreessity.
It is also e feet thnt it is imposaih:a to r ke up for
abortege in armmente ithis any very ahort wpree  timot
In the eense of sucn grert ses  owers es Japen, roet Britein
and the nited totes, nevel arrmmeats conetitute te  lmost
abselute foe or for t e srsurence ef their nationel exlstence
and meourity, sinoe their torritories  re e posed to  tteck
frama the sec, sinee thoir mavies mey be reedi y concentreted
 mobilized en ent so aay wut r, and heceuse t e bulluin
of novien re uires a Lon rim of yeers.
In viow of thio ruot, t e ratoblimhment of m rity amon
these three big savies, a parity Suaranteeins feeility in
defense but cirrieulty in attao constitutins the prineipl
of nondmononoe an: nonesegression - is bound to meeure
notional security For all of thm.
The Jupenese ustion e poriemced as renently es at the time
of the Mamohurien end Mamghe1 Imoideats, the pomeibility of
averting sorious de elopments thanks to her wotual neval
stremgth being not imferior to thot of emother netion which
Jepen eeted et such
took great comeern in suoh affoirs.
times for aelredefense, but the other nation attempted to
cheak the course of Japen, due to failure to teke a reslistio
view of the situetion or y misinterpretstion of Jupanese
motives, thus threctening to preeipitate  very r ve situa-
tiom. "ortunetoly, however, such lanrer ws volde beenuse
Japem ad at that tlie nava: mtremsth nut tnferior to thet of
the thire netlon, or, in other wmae, nave treetis in
exis tance wore mat carrled out to t a cox lmus buil ing limits.
The argums nt thet rmarcat e uelity is inoompatib e th
eq ality of meourity is e fargrrtohe theory tantamount to
the alaim thet that umieme the mixe of mriuemente he gre d,
allotting an inferior ratio to Japen, there on  he no e uality
of seeurity. moh a contention is entirely mrbitrary and
absurd entirely falling to take into commideretion the feeling
of imsesurity of the matioms alletted inferior rrtios by
treatieme

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.88)
mgten Treaty, though e useful instrumant in the
be expeote to remain useful forever in the future.
maturel that an old imetrument mhould be repleced by
 in keoping with the ohamging tides of the werld. the
as in fect no lomger an ob jeet for dimcussion, einee Ja-
 reelixing tho gep it creates in her natiomal defemse,
motioe of uniloteral ebrogetion tow res the end of last
The people of the Umited tates insist on "polisicel,
economieal and paychelo ina: me trity. ut the mscurity they
are anxious to sttain is mot so vite  to thoir netioml exis-
temes, as is the mase term in the eyes or the Japenese.
Por the United tates, it i largely  luxuriows seourity
soen
imoluding * conoiderntion or her economie int rests.
tially, it is an sttempt to malntein the stetus uo, a position
of muperiority g ined at the cost of t e progress end develop
mont of other notionn.
The meintenenee or the etatus uo, hownver, ie fundementally
an unrensonsble ale it, igmorine the fsot t constant evolutiom
in humeen sooiety.
Nutione whiuh have al rendy er tesced their
righte end interests or hevr entrblisher un : baolute rrventuge
ovor othera throu hout the worid in the  at, are apt to imsist
on the intenanne  te atetus uo from sel ish ntiv They
hey  iet e r rr
ar too selreexin
evelution.
"he aay 1 sre ties coatin prevlaions or th ia ts a thoir
duretion ans len or pourpmriere pe iminsry t  dew conrerence.
Smch provietons  re solely intense ror vesewel of tae existime
treaties on a fuirer an: swore itnl:e bn is,  cour ine to the
nd the et-
world changen at the tie  thetr e piretion.
tempt to uinere in the uture to the ontents of the eshlartom
Treety,  trey cunolue aore hn l yere  le n ttempt
to take e be ward ster, heyon" the limit: even ar the mue inton-
the
ll antion of the world ore  ekine crforts to rine their
way out of the preveiline iuape se on to flas resh  the for
progremm in polities, er momius, rt and soience. Jepum too
is making supremn erforts to work out her ms tiomel destimy in
the face or hmr populetion probimm, the bamle esuse of all her
murferinga, and in th: fnce of m ny other dirfioulties ut homs
and abrosd.
Comsilerntion of ons's omn lnt, rest doee net serve the
melutiom of intornational disputes es in the ensr of individuel
uoh an altitude affe ts the imterests
dispuses in meciety.
of other nations, more pertioularly in thrse deye when sueh
real selu-
imterests are complex cnd ulosely interwovem.
tion of internetional problems may omly be besed on the fuir
primeiple of mutunl exi tence ast prosperity, whieh is the omly
comeeivable principle tow rds sverlestins peece enc welfere fer
the humam ruce.
Those who are not mo uainte ith Jepan's  tlonel trende
end her true motives have umfavourably criticized her policies
If they study the
reger ing lanchurion and Mims prohlems.
Japanese attitude in the light of mutual existenee and prom-
pority amd wi tmout prejuliee ant welrimn wnds in view, they should
surely be mble to mee thet the stepe taxan y Japen are ressomable
ad besed on much
amd in aosordenoe with soun ne ture! Laws.
lewe, Jepan proposed in the penaine sisernement conference a
methed of montpensoe cnd nomenggreasion mon the medine hevel
"owers.
-5-

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.89)
it is still premature to speak of the deedlook of the
But there will be no chance for reeshing
conference.
pessible agreement, umloms the natioms cencerned are frank
smough to point out whst is wrong, and aro opendmimaed emongh
to refleet om what is poimted as wrons without prejudice.
Mr. Heotor C. Bywater, the British oritie on meval probless,
has slrosdy steted that ether than ome of prestige as the
biggost natien. Mamy thoughtrul mericene nnd Britaims have
gradually come, thus, to appreciete Jepan's reasoneble demmnds
and to urge a roexamimntion of their mttitude towerds Japan.
It is gratiryimg to mote such temdeney working im the
direction of juntice, mumanity and pec ce.It behoeves the
Japamese to uphold their stand and do their utmeet fer the
eventual reslixetion of the ends in viow.This poimt meat
be particularly emphasized b-cuuse there 1s s ways the possibi-
lity of the Japanese sucoumbing to a cempe lg: of imtrigue im
the final and the most critice stege a the diplometie perley.
as has often happene in the pmst.
The Lomdon Times nee recently pub i he: an *rtiole entitled
"The omper of Japan by its Tokyo correapondent, who is mot a
In the first
Japonese but upparently e foreign resident.
tee of the prtioe, the writer guotee the upas Year vook as
saying thet what Jupen meens is a fleet x rong enongh to
defond Japen soninst eny foror aloh coul be dispet hed to
te noifie by way neve) ower, end ssserte thyt the re wire-
ment in neither unreseoneh e or Jepe t s r impossibl
ferneian umericetr
In apeskine or the aav att whi lous be slere tohed
to tho rient, it must h reoatre thet   les, whion
heve been modernire, ere capsbie of  isputoaine preatiee y
their whei atren th, howr er reet it mey br, insteed of B
n insts poe of this may be found in the
or 9 per went.
overbeerins uttitue  te merlcan vy pien will hold.
acoor ing to reports, a menoeuvre on an ex tensive soeio within
a ronge o? 2, Oo neutice mllms from Jepen from tais apring to
the mext suamer, For whi oh preeticelly the whole ue ye tren th
is to ve mobil1: ed.
In the followin is meagem, the writer onys thet imstes.
of proposins to amens the treat Jepan mwopt it cut of the way.
TRo goes on to mey in substence thet Japen, which foroed the
Europemn and mericen countries en the Leaue to unite on the
Hamohurian issue, is going torun the risk a ain of combiming
"Ome cen omly nsk, the correspondent
Britain andmarion.
comtimmes, "wky e uite megotirbit toren, the principle of
whieh is embodied in existing tresties, mhould be made in e
The explana-
way whicn could not fall to arouse opro ition.
tiom omn be found im intermel polition: conditions. ......The
Gevermment is obeying en irresistible movement of puhlie opinion.
The opimion, however, whioh is erfective in this ckse, is that
of the Wavy. It wes this irreslstible opinlon hehin: the
Covermment, the oorreapendent contiues, thut made the pre-
The writer then reveals
limimmry talks at ondom fruitleas.
the feat that mothing wen stand car inst sues irreslatibse publle
opiniom in Jepan.
Im the comeludimg pert, the ortiole points the t this
Jepamese temper reanrline her nave policy is to prevei until
it emooumters a cheek, but the history or Jopan's re'  tlon with
the mmes juatifies belief that if tise is iven e wry of mmree-
The sonalusion preutically amounts to
momt will be found."
-4 -

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.90)
that Jupan will ultime:tely yield to whnt is imevitablo
I till remom
 split or her publie opinion.
Fteim foreign diplomet, who Bad long been in Japan and played
an importont role in fokye it the tine of the luat maval som-
ferenes, mho was reperted to have opemly srid that there was
th1
me publie opinion in Japen ans the opimica mi ht be emsily
influmnced if one kmew the way to influence it.
of this, we immensoly deplore to find an ertiole by a foreigm
correepoadent as referred to wbove.
is are goins to moet tae fortheomint nevel conferenee.
The Jepenese mation should ase to it that they stend firmly
togother, in upite of any uawpaign or intrigue against
Japan, for the existence and progrens or the mpire and else
for the oause of the worid, on the nohle principle of mutual
existence and prosperity for the benerit  f the people tarough-
outthewl

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.86)
Divislonr
FAR EASTEAN A 
DEC011930
REC
DE1938
DEC12
8
of &50, a day
Mear,even
wan

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.82)
agakinst mr de in

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.82)
3
dictaters get a head
thal
through litting
Etiopel
Youss l belin t

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.98)
: St.
Fortconnpatom canmorina
he had beer visiting a daughter.
suf-
soR
are apt to be too .. . with ments in the officers
om-
Japan Plans New Naval Bases to Threaten
eat-
Hawaii and Philippines, German Experts Say
By United Press
waii and are required by treaty to stations for the naval and air arms
BERLIN, Nov. 28.—Japan's "un-
be unfortified, Nauticus said:
and for submarines."
mistakable intention" to push its
"Since the lapse of the naval
In a special article on bases of
lu-
nd
system of naval bases far into its
treaties, Japan's intention is un-
the various nations in the Pacific,
mandated islands in the Pacific
written by retired Vice Admiral
or.
mistakable to expand its bases al-
E.
was cited today by the German
ready existing outside the home
Otto Groos, Nauticus said:
"In case of war by Japan against
of
naval annual Nauticus as a new
islands (the bases on Formosa,
one of the other great sa powers,
at
factor in the world-jockeying for
Pescadores and Bonin Island) and
the question of bases, which has
. 1,
ry.
sea power.
to extend the new bases as far as
always played a great role in the
The 1939 issue of Nauticus, pub-
possible toward the southwest into
Far East, would on the whole be
decisive."
lished by Retired Admiral Gott-
mandated territory.
Discussing the British and Unit-
"Thus further fortifications are
fried Hansen with the sponsorship
ed States bases, the article empha-
being carried out at Keelong and
of the German naval high com-
sized the importance of the Philip-
Takue in Formosa, and at Mako
mand, says that Japan is building
pines to British as well as United
on Pescadores. The latter gains
two battleships of between 40,000
States strategy, pointing out that
ler,
and 45,000 tons, armed with nine
particular importance as the out-
Singapore is far from Japan and
ine
16-inch guns. (The largest battle-
post nearest to Hongkong.
that Hongkong, although near, is
iall
ship in the world is the British
"On the island of Saipan in the
weak because it is isolated. It de-
Mariane group, on Palau in the
his
battle cruiser Hood, of 42,100 tons,
clared that if the United States re-
ed.
armed with eight 15-inch guns.)
West Carolines, on Namoi in the
mains in the Philippines, "the
Sp
East Carolines and on Jaluit in the
R.
Regarding bases in the mandated
strategic triangle ofHongkong,
sif
Marshall Islands, can in all prob-
Til-
islands, which cover a vast area
Manila and Singapore could in
is
ont. between the Philippines and Ha-
ability be expectcd expansion of
time be made impregnable to the
nic
newly-created bases and fueling Japanese forces."

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.92)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
December 6, 1932
DEU8 1932
Mr. Castle:
DAVION
The Secretary of the Navy
BECOR
having sent a. telegram, I concur
in the view expressed by Hr.
Cooke.
SKH
THE UNDER SECRETARY
1932
8
DEPARTMENI OF SIATE
1932
