894.00B Japan, Bolshevism. Communism. Communistic Activities. Subversive Activities., July 10, 1946 - December 21, 1949 (File 1821), part 2 of 2
ID: 894.00B-1821-2   Pages: 299   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.00b-japan-bolshevism-communism-6/894.00B%20Japan%2C%20Bolshevism.%20Communism.%20Communistic%20Activities.%20Subversive%20Activities.%2C%20July%2010%2C%201946%20-%20December%2021%2C%201949%201821-part-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
-27
the Youne Commnnist League, or the youth groups of the vastome
umions. This cecurred, fer imstanse, following the failure of
the general strike in February 1947. When the hue and ery dies
down, these youth action groups organise again. The Japam
Communist Party considers them of vital importance, for traditiem-
ally, Communism comes to a country through force. Such terrorist
groups are legitimate weapons of Communists.(2)
The J.C.P. has organised the discontented Korean youth imte
the Korean Democratic Youth, an offective agency for training youme
Korean Communiste as leaders in an "independent, democratie" Kerea.
The youth organization is a part of the Korean Leagus to which the
Communist Party gave 3 million yen when it was organized.(3)
There have been several attempts by Comwunists to unify youth
groups into a large organization. In November, 1947 the Commmmist
dominated Association to Expedite the Organization of a Unified
Youth League (Tan Itsu einen Domei Te1 Kessei Sokushin Kai) met
in Tokyo to outline organizational plans for the Japan Democratic
Youth League (Nippon Minshu Seinen Dome1). An examination of the
list of some of the known promoters indicates the determination of
the Communists to penetrate labor union youth sections. KUMAGAYA
Jiro, a Party member and one of the central figures in organising
this Youth League is popular with labor union youth sections.
Other J.C.P. members who were prominent in establishing
the Japen Democratic Youth League include
(2) GHQ, War East Command, Civil Intelligence Section,
Periodical Summary, No. 25, February 15, 1945, p. 17.
(3) Ib1d., No. 27, Apr11 15, 1948.
SBCRET

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.94)
-20
IWASAWA Kohe1, Chief of the Government Mailway Werkers Walen
Youth Section, OKUYAMA Masahiro, Chief of the Electrieal Imfustay
Workers Union Youth Section and NISkIWAKI Ryuji, Chief of the
All Japan Communications Workers Union Youth Seetiem.
Secretary General ONDA Hideichi of the Young Commmist Leagme
1nitiated the first preliminary meeting of the Japam Youth Coummil
(Mippon Sienon Kyogikai) in Tokyo. The Young Commmmist Leagus,
National Congress of Industrial Unions, Chubu Youths and Womems
Council and the Covernment Railway Workers Union sent delegates.
Later at a Youth Council's meeting in February, 1948 at Hibiya
Park, Tokyo, approximately 800 young people representing the
Young Communist League, Korean Democratic Youth League, the
youth sections of the Government Railway Electric Industry and
Communications #orkers Unions attended. Later they partieipated
in a parade, singing the "Internationale".
In April of 1948 a Democratic Racial Front (Minshu Kenj1)
was proposed by the J.C.P. under the leadership of MIYAmOrO Kenj1,
Soviet fraction member of the Japan Communist Party's Supreme
Council. At a rally two weeks later sponsored by the National
Congress of Industrial Unions Youth Council 4,O00 young workers
and college students attended, representing the J.C.P., Young
Communist League, Korean Democratic League as well as the major
labor unions. A more recent attempt to merge the various youth
organizations was made January 13, 1949.
G8GRET

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.98)
89
Postwar Commmmist Activitiee Among Farmers
The Communist Party has made little progress with its
offorts to win converts in rural Japan. Japamese farmers are
traditionally conservative and view with aceptieism a progrem
that would affeet their way of life. Moreover, postwar imfle-
tionary prices have placed the farmer in a very advantageous
position economically as compered with the urban worker. The
high prices received for rice and other agricultural produets
have enabled many to become free of debt, -- the burden that
oppressed the farmer so severely before the war. Far reaehing
land reforms inaugurated by the occupation has also been an
important factor in blocking Communist penetration in rural
areas. These reforms, which give the tenant farmers tangible
advantages, such as purchasing land at comparatively low'prices
and with easy credit terms, have rectified many of their past
grievances, thereby depriving the Communists of much of their
appeal on this score.
Communist efforts to secure converts among the farmers has
been based largely on propaganda denouncing all Government polieies
which concern egriculture. The Japan Communist Party presents
itself as the only group that champions the interests of the
farmers. Through demonstrations, meetings, nublications,
postors
SECPT

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
-30
posters, and door to door canvassing, Party members demsunse
the Govermment's food collection program as unjust. Thay
proelaim that the price set by the Govermment is umreasemably
low when compared with industrial products, and tmt the qusta
fixing the amount of food each farmer must turm in, is tee high.
The Government's system of enforcing this food delivery pregram
by sending inspectors to the farms, a practice whieh is maturally
resented by the farmers, furnishes the Communists with additiomml
ammunition for their propaganda. The Communist Party marshals
every conceivable argument in an attempt to convinee the farmers
that their taxes discriminate against them. The Govermment's
flood control program with respect to farm lands has alse
received its share of denunciation by the Japan Communist Party.
Since the Communists advocate the confiscation of farm land
owned by absentee landlords and its division among tenant farmers,
the land reform program, which obviously has benefited particularly
the tenant farmer, is even denounced by the Communists as a
measure that requires the tenant to pay the landlord an exorbitant
nriee for his f armland.
As much of the farmers' opposition to the Government's
agricultural program is expressed through the Japan Farmers
Union, Communists have made every effort to infiltrate into
this organization. Using their labor union techniques, Communists
are gradually obtaining control of some of the key offices
within
SECRET

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.96)
-31-
within the Japan Farmers Union. Many white collar Party wertswe
with high sehool and even college edusation have joimed the
Union and have had some snceess in persuading farmers to sappert
the Japan Communist Party. MUIRA Raitara is perbaps the most.
active Communist in this farm organization. He joimed soom
after the war as a Social Demoerat and rose rapidly to leader-
ship. The recent formation of the Farmer-Labor Party by
Communist sympathizers and the election of seven of their
candidates to the Diet may be a factor in aiding Communists to
penetrate more successfully the Jepan Farmers Union. KURODA
Hisao, organizer of the new party, was formerly Chairman of
the Japan Farmers Union Executive Committee. Another indica-
tion of Communist gains with farmers is the election to the
Diet on January 23, 1949 of six Communist candidates who have
Japan Farmers Union affiliations.(1)
(1) GHQ, Far East Command, Civil Intelligonce Section
Periodical Summary No. 35, Dec. 15, 1948, Special Article
Section pp. 5.
SEGRET

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
-32
Postmar Commmist Letiyities Amone Japanese
The Japan Commenist Party has capilalised em the pestwar
emancipation of Japanese women. of the 4,400,000 wemem wage
earners in Japan, approximately 1,470,000 are members of laber
unions. The efforts of the Communists to reeruit feminime
support has been directed primarily to these women. Womens
'departments of labor unions have been organized, as the
Japanese women were reluctant to participate on a basis of
equality with men in the labor unions. The Communist appeal
has stressed such issues as the feminine struggle against low
wages, a position classification system "disadvantagoous to
Women" and similar controversial questions. Because of the
lack of political acumen of the average Jananese woman,
Communists in the women's divisions of the labor unions have
had little difficulty in infiitrating and controlling these
groups.
The Japan Communist Party has stenped up 1ts "cultural"
activities in factories and workshops in an appeal to the less
radical elements among the Japanese women, and have promoted
such activities as hiking clubg, singing and dancing classes.
Pro-Communist movies and lectures are proving effective. Entire
lecture courses are offered to womens study groups on such
subjects as "Sovlet Women Workers and Housewives", "Problems of
New Love and Marriage", and "roblems on the Liberation of
omen".
The
(1) See CH?, Far ast Command, Civil Intelligence Section,
Per1od1cal Summary, No. 33, Oct. 15, 1948, pp.37-46

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.97)
-33
The typical Japamese housewife has little imterest is
Communism. By her very nature she is conservative and resisings
Communism's more violent theories of revolution alarm rather tmm
attract her. Traditionally, she is disinterested im polities ad
uninformed on political quertions. Even after beimg gramted the
right of suffrage, she lacks political consciousness. Mesake,
in particular, has denounced the Party's past failure te win the
active support of the great masses of Japanese women in the home,
and has called for remedial measures. Nosake's wife, mosaka Ryu,
Party Women's Chief, has inaugurated a new drive to win mew
feminine converts, and to vitalize particularly the Party's appeal
to non-working women. Indicstive of this is a guide issued to
Party members for increasing membershin among the rank and file
of Japanese women. It is distributed by the Central Committee
of the Japan Communist Party. The guide urges that whemever a
man joins the Party, the Party worker should increase his efforts
to induce the whole family to join, as this is particularly impor-
tant in gaining women members.
The outstanding women in the community are new targets for
this renewed Communist irive as their membership would give
prestige to the Communist  arty and influence other women to
join the ranks.
The Communists are anpealing to women through educational
and cultural organizations. Consequently, Communist women
organize
CRCPST

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
-34
organise or dominste local art end literary sesiettes, dey
murseries, seving cireles, foed cooperatives, ané stuty grompe.
The Party's emphasis is on objectives that are elose te the
average homemaker; an end to rationing, better child eare, further
protection of the rights of women, improved health and medieal
facilities, and housing and clothing for war refugees and re-
patriates.
With these "homemakers" who comprise the bulk of Japemese
women, the JCP has soft pedalled its revolutionary aspeets. This
home type of a woman who joins the Party is asked to do little
real Party work, and is assigned minor pleasant tasks that will
not take her too long away from home duties. Communists know
this is necessary as the trsditional Japanese husband resents
his wife's frequent absence from home or her preoccupation with
outside activities. An excention, however, is found in the Tokyo
area where the wives of the prominent Communists, approximately
a hundred in number, have organized and are effectively promoting
Communism in this metropolitan district.
There are two womens organizations on the national level
that are dominated by Communists, the omens Democratic Club
and the Democratic Womens Council. The former group was organised
by three Japanese women MIYA To Yuriko, a prominent Communist who
has lived in foviet Russia; AKAMATSU Tsuneko, left-wing member of
the Social Democratic Party; and KATo Shizue, who writes for
radical and Communist publications. Under the direction and
scrutiny of such leaders the Club activities for membere include
the
SPCHET

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.91)
- 38 -
the customery singing and dancing lessone, pro-Commumiet mavies
And lootures, eto. The ally Life Sention working im opem
cooperntion with the Jop pro osen "to educete womem pelitleally.
The Samocratie Womene Couneil wse orpanized in the apring
of l947 unaer the dirent eponsorsrip of the Women's Sentiom
of the Je. rore then 5o' of the orianiration'e Somrd of
Lirentore aro reported to be Communiete or Communiut ympatmizors.
The inareasing ower of tnle Jouncil 1s ruvealed in the
growing numbers of womene organizntlone erriliuted with it.
These inolude sueh representntive groups as, The vomone
Seotion of the Jo, the romene Democratio League snd the
somens Seotione of the lectrio Induttries vorkere, all
Japen Coal  ine Union, National Council of hemical vorkere
Union and :rivate Rellroad orkers Union.
The bemooratio
womene  ounell o, enly acknouleuged ut the pro-Communlet
"reace -ay" neetins in okyo, u. urt 1s, lsas its conneotion
with the world-wiue Communist front oryanization, the Inter-
national omene emcoratio Luasue.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.94)
一8-
Postwar Commmmist Letiyities in
The Press
Communist strength in the Japanese press was revemlel
shortly after the surrender when sCAP required leeding mows-
papers to reorganize and purge offioials who supperted the
military. It wae at this time the All Japen Press amd Madie
Workers Union was formed. In this reorganization of the mows-
papers and the oreation of the press union, Commumists and
their sympathizers quiekly selzed key positions both in the
union and on the editorial staffs of the leading deilies.
Following the purge, XIyUNANI Katsum1, Party mombor and
hemd of the Sambetsu beoame ohief editor of the Asmhi, Jepam's
largest newepaper. suzuxI Tonim, now a recognized Party member,
became the ahief ditorlal writer for the Yomiurl, one of Tokyo's
most influential papere. Suzuki, with the cooperatiom of the
Communists and their sympathizers who were employed on the
Yomiurk, recuested the President, Shiroki, to reslgn om the
grounds he wes "reactionary". hen Shiroki refused, employees
seized the plant and would not give it up until shiroki quit.
A Mr. Babe was mopointed President, ond as a result Suzuki was
pleced in a more powerful position in determining the paper's
polioy. In August of 1946 Babe wse foroed to disoharge Suzuk1
becauee of hie many ineccuracis and Communist distortions of
news. The Union, unler Communist control would have attemmted
to repest the trotics used on hiroki if  P hed not intervened
by deolaring thet the newapaper owners and management had the
right to dotermine the peper's policy.
(1) See Special  eport submitted to Ct, Far "ast Command.
Hilitary Intelligenoe Seotion, July 16, 1948, entitled
"The Communiet end Pro-Communist Fress in Japan", pr. 1-17.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.93)
一-
Commumist domimatien even renehed out to many of the
prefeetural papers. The Kaltor-In-Chief of the influemtimt
Hekkaldo Phimbum was a Party member and ordered all assistems
editors to Join the Party or resign. Here sCap imtervened
again, thin time upholding the right of assistant editors to
chose their own party allegianoe. The paper hewever remmimed
under Communist influenoe.
The current paper shortage has been used by the Commumists
to influonce the prese. By controlling the output of paper et
the mille through union sotivities and through holding a domimemt
position in the powerful Publishers Asaociation that ratiomed
newsprint, the Communiats had virtually e stranglehold en mamy
Japenese publications. Unless a newepaper or magazine was
sympathetio to the Communists, the Assooistion lebelled it
"resctionary", "fesolst" or "war oriminal" and mede it diffieult
for the publiontion to obtsin sufficient paper. In the meantime,
new mngazines with Communiet sympethies - end apparently with
plenty of paper - spreng into exi-tence with emazing rapidity.
"ventually, Cap heprived the Communiste of this weapon of
control by placing paper rationing in more trustworthy hande.
However, the intervening period had nermitted the Communiste
to strengthen their posi tion in the Jap"nese press.
Communist and pro-Communist control of the press is of
greet importance to the Jadan Communtet  erty in winming mass
sunport, and is reletively suocessful ns many Japenese do not
recognize
20R2T

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.92)
一 30 -
recognise the covert Party propagands. Kavepaper stsries ase
given the Communist alant. Space is allotted to Commmmtet com-
trolled public meetings. Viete and pronouncements of Gommumiss
leaders receive full play while speeches by non-Commmmists ame
meetings of non-Communist organizatlons often receive little
or no spaoe in the day's newe.
In eddition to domimating 8 considerable segment of Japem's
press, the Japan Communist Party publlshes its own mowspapers
and magazines. thile ciroulation has been limitod oftem  the
shortege of paper under the present rationing system (and the
more irresponsible, violent distribes thet would have led to
popular unrest have been elimineted through ceneorahip), the
eprend of Communim through the medium of Communist and pro-
Communist publiostions is eigniricent. The wide variety of
these publicntione appesl in one way or enother to almost every
olass end intellectual level in Japen, suoh as Communiat intelli-
gentein, students, white coller workere, industrial workere,
laborere, fermer-, youth end even children.
The ofriciel Communiet nowepaner The Sed Elag. Akahata,
was revived in Cctober l945 only e few deys after the release
of the Communist politiosl prisonere. t hee a ciroulation thot
exceeds 100,000 end 1s d1str1buted by 700 brenoh ofricee whioh
retain B05 of the total recelpts reosived from the sale of the
nevopeper. Communist leegues, colls and unione aubsoribe to it
where copies are made available to lerge numbere of reedere.
Feeture
BEORET

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.94)
- 39 -
Feature artieles of this publieation martial argamsate fer 
"converted". All news steriss are, of course, disterted in enée
to present the true Commmmist vlewpoint.
The Vanguard. 2enkei, is the most important Cemammist maga-
zine. It appeared first in Pebruary 1946 ns a bi-momthly but
soon lapeed into e monthly publioatlon with a eireulatiem of
approximately 21,000. The Vanguard is designed as a magasime
for Party membere and presents the official Party viowpoimt on
questions of the day. The Leonlea Cluk, Taishu Kurabu, magasime
1s published by the Japan Communiat Party as a populer magazime
for the vorking people. The early iesues appealed primarily to
Communiste and pro-Communists, but it has been revised and now
holds e more wide and popular eppeal through reviews of motiem
piotures, pleys amd books. The Communiet viewpoint, however,
remains. The Elag of Youth, Seinen no hats, is a weekly two
page mewspaper w1th en estimated ciroulation of 140,000. Its
Communiet propaganda is aimed at students, youth groups and
youth departments of labor unions.
Three other lees important officlnl megazines of the Party
ere the Nex orld. Atareahi ekai, Lolence and Technlcuea, Kegaku
To Gijutau and Inveetlgation  enorta. Chosa Jiho. These magnzines
have shifted emphasle frequently ond have anpeared irregulerly.
Bglenge and Teghnlouan begen ae a farmers' magpzine vith pietures,
certoone and simple stories, but evolved into n comparatively
technical soienoe publication.
In

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.94)
一40 -
pro-Communist newspaper in this ontegory 1s the Mex mkxa, m
Tokyo. It's policy is covert rather than opem propagande. The
ocoupation regards this paper as one of the most insidioms
Journale in Japan. Another pro-Communiat nevapaper is Lahmr Emms.
Rodo Sinsan, the offioiel organ of the Communist domimated Naslemal
Congress of Industrial Unions, Sambetsu. As is to be expeeted,
the paper is filled ith "struggles" of the massee agmimst eapital-
1m. It hes a reported ciroulation of 70,000.
There are three pro-Communist ohildren's magazines, the
Childrana Elaxground, the Childrena Flag and the Childrena Yillasm.
These three periodioale have n combined ciroulation of 86,000 and
are designed to instill in young, impresslonable minds a belief
in "oless struggle" and the sup riority of "oviet Marxim. Cther
magazines vith Communist sympathies are Truth, Shinso, Damearetla
Reviex, Minshu Hyoron, Eriend of the Maegea. Minahu no Tomo,
Soolal Reviey, hukai Syoron snd ovict Culture, Soviot Bunka
whioh describes the "wonderful life in the Soviet Union".
In ndlition to these Communist nnd pro-Communist publioetione
innumerable broad sheets or wall newapapers ore publiahed locally
by Communiet cells, Young Communiet Leagues and Communists within
the unions. Often this type of propagenda is badly printed on
low quality bleok merket paper, but nevertheless is often effecti
because it atteoks immediately local issues.
GBGHET

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.91)
一4 -
The Japanese Cenits re usi more  mee  q
printed and easily understoed pesters and hanibills. Thats
Inflammatory messages often escape Government consorship besamee
of the rapidity with whioh they can be printed and distribated
and the subsequent diffioulty of wuthorities to trace the sourse
and secure the necessary evidence of violating press eode.
In 1948 the All Japan Press and Radio Workers Union meparated
and formed the All Japan Newapaper Union and the All Japan Radio
Workers Union. Communists anl their eympathisers contimme to
hold mány of the key positions in both unions.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.93)
一48-
Pestwer Commumist Astiyities in
The Communists are using smeeessfully the Japamsse leve
of the theater to promote their propagamda. Their use of the
theater as a sounding-board for propaganda 1s well-plammed and
well-organized under the experieneed lendership of RIJIKATA
Yoshi, who is a well known theatrionl director and predmeer in
Japon and who was aesoolnted also with the Nosoow Art Theater.
Sterting at grass-root levels, the Communists have organised
their own ametour troupe in labor unions and student groups,
and heve fostered new professlonal troupe with nuelel of Comw-
nist proiucers and setors. They heve extended their influenee
by sponsoring theatrioel assoolntions, dominsted by Party members
and sympathizers, whioh bring even non-Communist troups under
their control. Also, the Communists maintain a corpe of able
writers who turn out playe flavored vith Communist propagande.
These are mnde avellable both to Communiat and non-Communiet
troups.
Recont Communiet tactics have omphesized "oultural revolu-
tions" by penetrating an intrionte moze of oulturel leagues,
sooieties, and nanoci tions whioh oatensibly have no relation-
ship. However, nearly 1dentioal groupe of Communists serve as
excoutive or governing boer s of the numerous orgenizations.
An
(1) See CH, Tar "est Command, Civil Tntelligence Reotion,
Periodieal Summary No. 27, April 15, 1948, Summation eotion,
0.7-30.
SEORET

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.93)
一
-43-
An outstanding example of this type of orgamisatiom ss 
Japan Demooratie Cul ture League, Nippon Memhigi  Rm
commonly known as Zumren. Al though it has non-Communist momberss
it is dominated by Communists in the Theatrieal Divisiom of Damrem,
the New Thenter "eoplee Aseocintien whioh wes orgamized in Aprll,
1946 by two well-known Communists, MURAYAMA Tom1yoshi and Mijikate.
The growth of this New Theater Peoples Assoolation hae beem
phenomenal. It now hes representatives, membere and organisers
1n all sections of the ocuntry, who are actively engaged im pre-
moting ameteur groups, study groups and disoussion cireles in
unions, feotories, sohoole nnd communities. Its ephere has been
widened to inolude theatriosl litersture, musio and art. Clube
have been organized for profeseional produoers, playerights and
eotors and nlans are under way to form a nationel theater. No
phase even remotoly conneoted with the theater han been negleated.
The aotivities of the Hew Theater Feoples Assoolation are
varied and have a strong acreal. 'rinted soripts of playe, Com-
muniet flavored, are distributed to amateur end profeseional groups
es "recommended by the Japen Demooratio Culture League". They
urge all amatour groupa, thst pre alreedy est bliahed, to join
the New Theater Peoples Aseoci tion. In return for e nominel
fee, these groups receive plsy-soript service, counsel from the
Aasoolation's steff of directors nd plsywrights, sesistanoe in
arranging

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.93)
一 4 -
arranging bookings, the right to partisipate in the 
Theater. It is evident that to a struggling mateur preup w
are without guidance theme are very comerete advantages.
Aotually the New Theater Peoples Assoeistion has devoted
great effort to what it terms the "independent theater", - that
1s the maller amatour groups, whieh in Japan have always been
populer. Under its guidence, an independent theatrioal commell
has been formed whose governing counoil is somposed of represemta-
tives from suoh typloal groupe as the All Japan atudent Theatrieal
Federation, Young Mens Thentrioal Pederation at Tokyo, and the
Independent Theatricel Counoil. The mother organisatiom mide
these "independent groups" in 1ts usuel manner by offering playe
for performance, edvising such grouns amd treining leadere.
The seoond import'nt offshoot of nmateur troupes 1s the so-
oslled independant troupe, Jiriteu ikidan. These ere mmatour
troupes in the lebor unions of the Mntionel Congress of Induetrial
Unions. They are openly Conmunistio with an avowed purpose of
"injeoting lebor coneclousness into our labor oolleaguee".
Another recent subaldiary organ1:ation of the New Theater
reoples Assooistion is he Travelling Perrormanoes Assoeiation,
Ido Koen Kyogikai, orgenized under the Commun1st theatrieal
triumvirate, Hijikate, Murayame end ande. Its purpose is to
provide communities, factoriee, mince end sohoole with professional
troupe
2EOHT

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.93)
-40
troupes performing playe "suitable to a demceratie Japam". Xm
addition, it will supply stage property, make arrangememts fer the
rental of theaters at lower rates, advertise the troupe sehedmles,
obtain performance permits and provide suitable plays -- very
tangible assistance to any professional group.
Even ohildren are not neglected. A Juvenile Demoeraey Club,
Shonen Fgek1 Aaruba was formad in February, 1948, by the New
Theater :eu,les Assooi tion. HIJIXATA Yohei, son of HIJIKATA
Yoshi is the leidlng figure in the group. His first produetion
was "Whose Bread Is It:", a play thit was firat aubmitted for
consorship by the Japan Coamuniat Farty Cultural Departmont.
Their ;lays are presented to ohildren from the third to sixth grades.
Except for plays performed oy amateur groupe of the labor
uniona, few of the plays spunsorea by the New Theater reoples
Association are openly Comwunistic. ather, the Coumunist propa-
eande is more subtly injected. A very popular play called otting
Sun ohooses the device of e returned suldier meeting in his travels
in Japin miny. wis ialn to hia bout the advantages of Communisa.
In anot. er opul r Iy. he Laborer'a Children, the son of the
libor lea er  i scusses the simil rity between I bor's goal and
Communist priuci les.
Control oy sccuyation uthoritles of communist propeganda
thr ugh ls the ler is difficult. rlays t ce  resented muat pass
censorshi, cut l ays which often seem ulte innocuous in sorigt
can aoquire a difforent aspect when  srformed. he wanner in whion
the

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.91)
the play is presented san determine mudiense influsmse. the
Communist dirsetors have proven very ekillful on this seore.
Often, too, udditional lines are inserted waknown to the semser.
Japanese players keep their repertoire and sohedule flexible.
The group often uecides one day what play to give and where to
perfur'm it the next day, making them elusive to oheek and mmper-
vise. Hany of the amateur groups,  up cially in areas where
they feel compar tively s fo frou aupervision, do not even
bother t~ hav their rorthcosing  roduotions subwitted to
censuretip. ihie elusiveness of the theater to ceneorship
c ntrel enhancte ito vtiue to the Coazu..lata is wodia of
110961d8.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.89)
Pestyar Conmunlst Aetivisles ln Sámeation
Next to labor, Communism has perhaps made its greatest
gains in Japanese eduoation. Communist aotivities are almed
chiofly at bullding the Party's covert subvereive potomtial,
through the inriltration of student groupe and organisatlons,
to dominate not by sheer numbers but by superior organization,
propaganda and tuotios.
It is estiuated thit 8 percent or the teachers in the Japanese
middle schools pre Communlsts or Coasunist ayapathizers, 13 pereent
in the colleges, anc 37 percent in the universities. (1) The aotivi-
tles or these com.unist and ro-Communist lexchers conter about
two main sbjectives. Their first sojective ls control of the
vitally 1mport at Japan ie chers Union with its s00, 000 mombere.
It is believed thit wost of the units of the Union at the looal
level re now in the gri of comaunlsts ne com unist sympe-
thizers. at their nati nal convention nela at kanazawa in May.
Isas the Comounist memoers uomlnuted the uiscussions. The
mejority of the floor decislona ane res lutlons, that were
passed, he ed close to the Ferty line an ere reg rued as
Communist victories.
he uistt t convention pased
out ciroul ro, poslers me pm nis in  ze lous cimpaign for
new converts. Foliovins ti covention, lhe comaunlst teachers
attended a weetlnd of the Japan lomaunist arty.
many te chere nd profesasrs io Jay n too y are pre-
disposed to tomaunism. Traditlon liy, da hese eduo stion
has stre seo le  vil, the te chin s of erm n economiats
and
(1) G,  r ast Command, civil intel lgence ection,
erioicl umry, . S, e. l6, ls, lal
rticle ection p 26.
SLUHET

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.85)
rense, with 1te semi-pel1tleel mythelegt, has lase  s
minde ef meay Japanese students a xind of pelstieal vsm.
The Japaaese politieal mlad has not been edueated te mim
with prreise elarity but rather to aesept witheet qmesssem
visionary concepts of politieal and soelal philesophy mimée
that have acoepted suoh extreme nationallsm prove easy
crey to those seexiny to ls ose x dootrine lezding agals
to re imentation under the hiloso ly of an extreme lefs.
lhose is also a laok of out Landing economie and
soslal solenoe teaohere in Jarn wno have a olear under
standing of, and a firm faith in, westarn demooracy this,
coabined with the faot that Enslisr translatlons of im ortamt
books in these fields are  elatively iirriou't to ebtain,
rrovide weak on nsition to the rovin Inrluenoe of Com-
aunl in eduo:tion.
Many o unist ro   s  active loader in Coin
munlst an Com unlst front orguni atine on the oam uses.
Soe orga ize "re din", "onltu: or "social tudies"
ro p tat l at   r's h un er ni leadorshi.
atev:r te ie, their activ ty  essentially a etudy
of Com. unist idoolory. . ty lol rxa le ls a olus eatad-
llehud ty t o com unizt te c:  t yozai irl. igh Bohool
in iushim feoturresnbi 100
tudonis.orellualron isre dlng soolety
but te ent  t me is  entt iaris.
ionist

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.89)
-80
The Communists have al ways been aware of the impertames
of training future leaders by converting students se Com-
muniam. They immedlately recognized the advantages of the
Government ruling of February 1946 whioh permitted the
formation or , olitioal groups in Japanese schools. This
ruling found "n- objectiuns in principle to partioipatiom
of faculty and students in political campaigns". The major
politioal partits, however, made little effort to obtain
the student vote. The Japan vomaunist Farty, trerefore, has
been able to carry on its activities with little competition.
Upen Coamunlst activities in the schools have centered
primarily about the forw tiun of Comounist cells and the wide-
pread orglzatlon und promotion of the Young Comounist
Leaaues. farty cells are con, osed of closely controlled
students and teuchere whs re memtr of te Party. Their
first oojective Las been to inriitrate the student self-
overning orgmlzati ne aue sther student grou s, to gain
eventual contrsl. Formerl., the wajority of tre student
cells were rs olzes in college an. universitlee, but a
wore recent trend ea, hasizes tie seniur hi  sohoole as
w01J..
ni.e active cells have he p rticul l suocessful
in lokyo Univer lt a san: niverlty of co eroe, the
overali   th h not met t ex eet tlone of the j..
at  recenl westine of the urly'a  ntri
ecutive
oittee
101

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.92)
-01-
Committes, it was desided that it must provide mere diress
supervislon and guidance to student eells in the hope of
making more rapid gains.
In the meantime, however, the Communists have promoted
successfully the Young Communist League. Memberahip is not
limited to Comaunists alone, but al? "left-wing" revolutiomary
and social minded students are urged to join, after whicb
they are subjected to Communist indoctrination. It is be-
lieved ti. merters of the Young Communist Leneue in Mareh,
19+8 was 100, 000 as the Japan Com. un1st Farty direeted the
Le gue to treble its meacerehi, so that 300, 00) mowbers
could articlpate in the Yay   de one ratlons. The Young
Communist Le sue ha a e led mre successfully to the Japanose
youth than the Jupnn Communlst Party. he ime of the
League in eduoutional circles center sosut the prorlems
of the student sroup. he Leugue clevorl, usee ali guestions
of vital sluuent lssuos xs tuel or a unition for
their ")ro-Comsunist alms une strugeles".
rressure movement: and strines have al waye been well-
vorn student weapons in Japin, cut under tre  romotlon of
the You  Coa..unlst Le ue they :chi ved ven grester effeo-
tiveness. The Leaue has vsizeu u on such isnues as "anti-
tuition ralse strug le". "anti- ressi n md livelihood
strug le", an the alleged "control or edue tlon by f scists.
Under lheir interpretation, ny professor not a Comuniat
is ipso facto a "fasclst or wilitarist". tuuent pressure of
Conuunist

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.93)
E
-88
Commumist inspiration io dirested against these temehsre im
Cemsunist disfavor and often a movement is started te hmve a
teacher discharged. An example of the suscess of this teekmieme
was the postwar purge of 25 professors fromtOsake Ualverslty
of Comuerce Lecause of the demands of Communist and pre-Comm-
nist students who acoused these professors of being "anti-
dezocratic".
A aurvey wade by the Gl Military Intelligenoe Bectlon
of the fulitlcal affiliatlons or studente in the Oaaka-Kyoto
area reveals the following st:rtling percentages of Party
members and posslble Communist symgathizers:
Jaaka University of Commerce
91%
Kyoto University
20 x
Doshisha University
78
Kobe University of Cownerce
48
Kansal University
75
itsumeikan University
42
Saka Univeraity
30
yuxku Vniversity
25(2)
The percentages for Tokyo University anu Hokkaldo University,
both consldered heavlly pro-Comauniet, are not available.
In lue8, the Japanese Governwent, alarmed at the growing
power of the Coamunists in elucatlon, resclnced its earlier
peralesion to oreanize political parties and ordered studont
political sroups banned. ils actiun eliminated the oppor-
tunity for the moderate political urtias to form student
organizations.
(2) Gh, Far Sast Command. Civil Intel igence Section,
Ferlodical summury o. 27, pril 15, 1948, summation section
P.11.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.92)
-88
organisations. The Communists, however, with their traim
ing and experlence, merely went underground.
Comaunist front organisatlons have been an important
part of Comounist technlque. By controlling studont groups
that ire th-pretically non-politlcal, the Communlsts ineroase
their  ower out or proportion to their numerloal strongth.
Many "front" student organizatiuns are tools of the Com-
munists. The atlonal stucent Self-Governing Fedoration
and the ci l clence tesearoh soclety are the two most
im ortant.  National convention of the National Federation
of self-lovernment socleties of al: sovernment and fublle
Univers1tles nd Colleges was hele in June 1948 with 130
achools represented. At this meeting, it was revealed that
a goul of the Federation is the spred of arxism among
studente. tudent strikes have been initlated by the
Nati nal tusent self-Governing Federation against so-oalled
"antl-de ocratlc tenchere", raise in luition, so-culled
"fascist control or educatlon" trrouh the arpointment of
echool offlci 1s, who in their o inlon represented moneyed
interests", and tgalnet utrnority in seneral.
The comunist-
ins,ired-strizee have fre uently tt czed the system of
exawinati. heir im 1s to cre  down rec  nized auth
rity and oring n chaos.
The Ja an communiet rarty recently 1 unchen a drive to
est bliat. tie tucent Federat1 . in private achosls. ihe
haahata, the ofriclal newap  er or the : rty, reported that
in July, 1543,

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.92)
in July 1948, representatives from 82 private sehoels in Jm
met to form the Hational Private Sabeol Selr-Goveramems Fekere-
tion as a corollary to the N tional Student Self-Govermmemt Federe-
tion. These self-government organizations are the venieles
chosen by the J.C.. to provide ultimately a united student
front, to serve as a tool for the farty.
The second major front organization for student Communlsts
1s the sociul clence Resvarch Society. The soolety was organised
originally "te study political and suolal conditione" but it was
soon infiltrated ty Comxunists and it is now under the complete
dominatisn of the Japan Coamunist Perty. It providee the Comaunists
a means of entioing within their sris stucents who heeltato
joining elther the Communist I arty or the Young Communist Loague.
Onoe in the net and subjecten to comunist propag nda and teon
ni pues, many non-Cumnunist members r luly become sympathizore
or converta.
Ansther stucant front or anlzation recently forwed uixier
the aus lces of the Young Communiat Le  ue hd the J.C.. io
the Dewoer itic tudente Le ue ith an nnounced gosl of one
aillion membere or the end cr lus. here re wany other
Communist front organizations o ur ting in Jap nese sohools
such as the sciety to tuu. scll uture, tho stuuent
Cultural councll, mew reo les ociety. in exaaple of
Communist controlled student orsmlzitins in  yo
univerity

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.91)
-88
University alone are: Soclal Seience Researeh Soelesy, Sevies
Research Society, Heseareh Soslety on Materialism, Chimese
Researet: Society, Students League on Soc:alism, Social
Hedleal Research, Researeh Sooiety on Law, Research Boelety
on History, Resenroh Society on Marxism and Leniniem,
Oratorical Society, Reading and Culture Researoh Soolety,
Free Movie Research Bociety, Contemporary Literature
Research soclety, Researoh Boclety on Modern History, and
Juppet show esearoh soclety.
The Comsunist appeni to youth is strong. This is
partioul.rly true of malcontents. Those postwar  rooleme
of Ja all suoh us inadeguate clotning, fosa und the privations
of inflation are found in Japnese acrools. students dis-
satisifed with their present economic lot are more willing
to accept f.ise uto.las.
he co  of sendine sluuents to tre university has be-
come pronibitive lo the majority of Japunese mi dle clags
families frju which were derived the tulk of Japanese students
in pre-wur Japan. wor ure there the usual  roportion of
sons fro.m those familley or hi h i telleolu-l c libre
that proviued active le maerani. in the var.itn many of
the heade or these Famliles  ur eo n. meprivec of norual
channels I emp loyment, the sons, even thougl oheowed with
the mental e  tcity or leaerhi., re lurt vtt the
necessary finunci al aid of their i amlly md are unab e.
teererore,

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.86)
-58-
therefore, to attend universities and be trained for
future politieal leadership.
As a result of this situation, the majority of was-
versity studenta come from families of the newly riek who
primarily have achleved tnis questl nable mark of dietine-
tlon as cinok marketeers. Proritable as this oooupation
may be, it does lst promote within the family those moral
qualities which re accepted as the foundatlon of leader-
shir. In fact, the ty io l sons uf such fumlllea have
proven on the wnole to be elther unwil ing or unable to
assume sludent lenderar i, within tDe univorsities. There
ls algo a smaller grou, of batverslty sludents who receive
only partial su. ort frou their f milios und who are turn-
lng core ans aore to olvcx warket o er tisna. hie condi-
tion leives the atuuents little time no inclination for
active le uer hi it the university. the communiste have
aen uv r tuissculier ituuti somunlst or
nlzati ns re suusiulzine sludentnese sludente,
politicull tr.ineu d indoctrinitee, n. without finan-
ci 1 worriss, save aasumed mucs. of the tetive leadership
in the univer itle. ome comsdnlat stulent wurkere merely
ro nt e  
ut they devote
treir ru ie t alt tion  romtio f oe uniat
lctivitle  prepa on t a usee
e baunlte have aldo anere voee tmer rolowing oy
convinuine
2

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.92)
-87
sonvinoing many students that in event of war batween the
United States and the Soviet Uniom, Ameriea will be foreed
to witndraw from Japan and that the students should "insure
their future by becoming Communiats, thus guaranteeing
their leadership in the "new soolal order".
ihis fear or the future and the dorentism of the atu-
dents in Japan are powerful allles of Communism. The faith
of the younger ldealislic Jaganese in the present new Japan
1s weas and uncertain. Professlunal Cowmunist leaders will
seluoa find a group wore ready to be converted to their
false octrines than Japan's postwar lm ressionable students,
untreined in precise logic, weak in leaderahip, lacking in
moral c litre, underaicau by physical priv lion, discouraged
and d1 l..usioned.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.89)
-58
Conolusion
Communist suecess in postwar Japan usually is attribased
to a combinatlon of ahautic sconumic conditions and pelitieal
turmoll, skllifully utilized by Comzunist propagandlsts. How-
ever, the appeal of Communism to the Japanese possibly is
more basic li in many esterners realize.
Tie Ja,anese are not an indivluuallstio people, but on the
contr ry re: communal eo: le. Horeover, the Japanese are 
comaunal  eo, lo accusloxed to forfeiting individual liberty
upon t e dem nd or the st te. The unlm ortanoe snd "unworthi-
ness of selr" as com, ared to the famlly, the community or
the st ate is : fund ment il tenet of Japanese philosophy.
Ihe coulunlel lden of alrife, strugale and conspiracy
appeals to the went lity of the fmatical Japanese. Prowar
Japun nad its waze of secret underground oliticil terrorlstio
socleties. From feuual ays the Jupanese mave inherited a
philoao ly of violence -- thit it wes ri ht to defy the law,
to use vislnce   e ns lo  en "if the cause was worthy".
Ihe muruers i iactstri ilst d t tesmen in prewar Japan,
te intimid tion and ol mcamall of otners y organized sangs
of "patrtolie ronin" ana t Young fricers hevolutlon of
rebruary lute are mute testioony to vmis lawless fanaticisa ti.it
nocepla unlerground aclivitlee, viulence end even revulution us
Jesitimste wel one to in their bjectives.
Lrange
20021

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.95)
-59
tioned sven to much of the economie philosophy of Commmmiom
by the prowar propaganda of the militarists. By pesters,
pamphleta, lectures and mectings a large and iafluential part
of the Japanese Army attacked monopoly capitalism, sonsemtra-
tion of wealth and the power of industry. At the same sime
they champloned the underprivileged, advocating industrlal and
agrarian reforms. They aroused in the masses of the Japanese
people a new soclal and eoonomic consciousness thxt provided
attitudes sympathetio to Communist dootrines.
But while the Aray propag nd, expounded semi-Commmmlst
philosophy, at the same tise it portrayed the soviet Umion
as Japan's great enemy. If the Japan Communlst Farty would
divorce Japanese Communiss from the Soviet Union in the popular
mind, as the Chinese Comwunist larty has so long and mo susoese-
fully denied its Russian inspiration and control, it might
ressonably be expeoted that the aver age Japanese who has long
feared and dlstrusted kua ia would accept Communlst dootrines
aorereacily.
It is belleved th t the ruture or Communism in Japan will
be influenceu to an extent by her rel tionships with China.
Communist growth in Japun may receive sharp imyetus from the
victories and enhanced prestige of the Comwunista in China.
Because of Jap n's long historic l tles to China and hor
geographical

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.91)
geographical proximity to the Asiatle maimlaad, the Japmose
are sensitive to impulses from the Continent. Mereever, the
need of reestablishing eventually her trade relations with
Asla - now so largely Communist - may induoe Japan te make
the nscessary  olitic l and economlo accommodations with
these Communist dominated areas.
B0OR22

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.92)
Key to extent of Communist influense
A - Completely controlled by Japan Commumist Party
B - Communist front organization, under Comaumist centrel
C - Under Communist control but with opposition presemt
D - Strongly Influenoed but not controlled by Communists
E - Ellght to moderate Comaunist influenee
EXTENT OF
HAKE
JCP INFLUENGE
All Communicatlons workers' Union
AADOOAOU
All Government Offioe Workers' Unlon
All Japan Autoaobile Industry Workers' Union
All Japan utonomous Jovernment Worker' Union
All Japan Chemioal Industry Workers Union
All Japan Coal Industry workers' Union
All Japan leotrio l Manuracturing vorkers' Union
All Japan leotrio Industry workers' Union
All Japan leotrio wire Industry Woriers' Union
All Japan xpress Company sorkera' Union
All Japan Finance Workers' Union
C
All Japan Foodatuff Industry sorkers' Union
00
All Japan Harbor workers' Union
all Japan Liaison Council of Labor Unione
ADCOAOOODDRB
All Japan Life Insurance Workers' Union
All Japan Lumber Wurkers' Union
All Japan Medical Treatment workers' Union
All Japan Metal Industry workers' Union
All Japan Motion Ficture and Iheatrical workers' Union
All Japan uccupation Foroes' orkers' Union
All Japan Printing and Fubllahing workers' Union
Al1 Japan Jeamen'a Union
All Japan shipbuilding vorkers' Union
All Japan student heatrical Federation
Association for tudents of oviet Culture
China Research Institute
Chinese Communist Area Hepatriates' Soclety
E
Contemporary Literature Researoh Society
四
Council of Eduoational Democratizatlon
山
Cultural Federation of Korean Mesidents in Japan
Dawn Printing Company
Demooratic Nurture League
D
Demoeratic Nutrition Assooiation
D
Democratlc Paper-Play Group
D
(1) GH. Far East Commind, Civil Inteliigence ectlon, Feriodioal
Summary No. 34. November 15, 1948, p endix . 1-9.
DEORET

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.92)
Demeeratie
tim League
Demseratie
rons
Demoeratic
is' Assosiation
Demoeratie
League
Demoeratie
Jooiety
Demosratie
igress
Edueation D.
sion
the
Edueation D
Lation Council
Edueation P
a League
1ble
Emanoipatio
it Rellef Booiety
Farm-Labor
Relief soclety
as
Farm-Labor
soclety
D
Federation
p Labor Uniona in Japan
B
fa
Federation
te Rallway workers' Unlons
C
Federation
1 Belences Researoh Bocletles
RmA口D
sund
Federation
ht Soviet Research Circles
Federation
Metropolitan workers' Unions
uch
Finance Min
ree Operating Bur aus workers' Union
Free Lawyer
11n
Government
workers' Union
D
Historical
Society
B
univ
Independent
Dfroupes Councll
Independent
pal Council
JLu
Internation
ics Rosearch oclety
Japan Anaro
10s
gue
Japan Coal
Union
Japan Cultu,
erative Union
Japan Demot
omrades Association
Japan Demod
Iture League
四
no
Japan Demoa
ucation association
Japan Demod
men's Council
B
Japan Demod
uth League
Japan Eapez
dy Society
ti
Japan Farme
n
Japan Fine
1ety
Japan Jourr
League
Japan Juvei
soclety
Japan Nodei
Society
Japan Orgui
tions Associstlon
Japan Foll
nomy heseurch Institute
Japan Romal
Society
stu.
Japan-Sovie
al relations Aassciution
Japan Teaol
on
Japan Youti
st League
Japan Yout!
Juvenile Di
Clut
5
Juvenile Li
riters' Associ tion
B
use
"Kana" scri
ty

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.93)
Kerean Cooperative Uaion
Kerean Demoeratie women's League
Korean Denoeratio Youth Leagus
Kerean Eeonomies Researoh Institute
Kerean Federation of Industrial Unions
Korean Industrial and Eoonomio Institute
Korean League
Korean Literature Association
Korean Studente' League in Japan
Korean Technical solenee Association
Labor-Farmer Liaison Council
League of Korean Merohants in Japan
League of Koreans Residing in Japan
League of Korean 3tudents in Japan
League of Korean xar Victims in Japan
D
Lialson Council of All Government and ublio workers'
Union
C8DB8BBD8
Lialson soclety for Husso-Japanese Cullure
Liberal Disoussion Soclety
Liberal Lawyere' Group
Liberal Movie Ieople's Group
Livelihood Cooperative Union
Livelihood rroteotion League
Merx-Lenin Research Institute
Materialism hesearoh Institute
Medioal clence Researen soclety
Nara Prefeotural Leugue of Insurance  octors
National Congress of Industrial Unions
National Couneil of Cement Industry workers
Natiunal Counoil of Demoeratization of Redical reatment
B
National Council of Korean Labor Unions
B
National
Ecuo tors' Le gue or Korane in Japan
National
Federatlon of Repatriates' Org nizations
2
Nati nal Le sue of Aamoniua sulfate lndustry orkers
Union
National Hepatriates League
Hational Student Self-Governzent Federation
Hew *Halku" Jets Le gue
New Japan ootors' Legue
New Japan Literature ociety
B
New Japan oets' Asssciation
B
New Literary oclety
New Huslol ma' Group
Now Feoples soc.ety
New Theatrical reople's Aesoci tion
B

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.94)
-64-
Nortbern Frienda' Soolety
Northerm Star Commereial Company
Okinawan Lesgue
Osaka Pine Arts Theater
Pasific Problems Researeh Society
People's Emanoipatlon League
Puku Puppet how Troupe
Reading and Culture Researoh Bociety
Research Boclety on Law
Research soclety on Marxism and Leninism
Researeh 3oclety on Modern History
Round Table Counoll of kedioal Treatment
Rueslan Culture Research Society
Russian Literalure Union
Shinkyo Dramatic Troupe
Sino-Japanese Cultural Research Institute
Sooial soicnce kesearch Society
Society for the Admiration of Sovlet Cu ture
Sociely to Proteot Japansse Cu ture
Society to twdy Social Cu ture
Soviet Area Repatriates Livelihood Frotectlon League
Soviet Culture dwirers' Clut
Soviet Culture A sooiation
Soviet Rosearchors' Associ tion
Soviet Study Associ tion
Stage Arls institute
Students Cultural Counoil
studente League on Socdimlism
Travelling Ferfurmance Associ tion
Unemployed Loue
Uniried Youth Le ue
Vanguard art ociety
Water-Level clety
women's bemocratic Clut
women's sauncipation uclety
worl. conomy mese rch inetitule
Young mon's cuituril council
Young Hen's h trieul Federotion
B
Youth and vomen's Construetion Corys
A

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.94)
BIELLOGBAPHX
Despatabes and Kemsranis
éumber
Dato
leadquarters
Unnumbered September 25, 1944
Transaitting Repert
U.B. Army Forees
Japanese Peeple 
China-Burma-India
Emaasipation Leagme
Chungking
3021
September 29, 1944
Tramsmitting Report
on Program ef Japamess
Commumist Party
Chungking
3178
November 24, 1944
Transmission of Mome-
randum: The poliey of
the Sth Route Army
Toward Japanss Prisomers
;hungking
62
January 9, 1945
Transmission of Meme-
randa on Psyeholegieal
arfare Agslnst  pam
rokyo
375
Apr1l 16, 1946
Attitude of Leading
Japan Political
Parties
tokyo
423
May 17, 1946
Frotest Against Jap-
anese General Elee-
tion of April 10.
1946 by Japan Commun-
ist Farty
okyo
514
July 22, 1940
Report on Communist
Party Schoole in
Japan
okyo
529
duguat 1, 1346
Study of the Japan
Communist Party
'okyo
13
January 6, 1948
Text or Memoranda
Helleved to have been
Prepared by Elements
of Japan communist
Party

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.97)
Pormation of e Beví
Tokyo
256
May 3, 1948
Friemtship Sseiety
Tokyo
299
May 24, 1948
Commupist Activities im
Tokyo
490
August 3, 1948
Communist Influense in Japemese
Labor
Tokyo
531
August 18, 1948
Opinions of Japanese Laber
Leaders Concernins Commmist
Activities and Rvisien of the
Hational Publie Service Law
Tokyo
630
September 24,
The Communist Potential im Japam
1948
Tokyo
728
November 15,
Central Intelligence Ageney Study
1948
in Japan
Tokyo
742
November 22,
Observations During an Orientatio
1948
Trip to Hokkaido Concerning
Current Political and Economie
Conditions
Tokyo
607
December 28, 1948
Headquarters of the Japan
Communist Party
Proletarian and Left-1ng Movements in Japan, OIR Document No. 2530,
January 1, 1947.
GHC, Far Fast Command, Civil Intelligence
Section, Periodical :ummary for.......January 15, 1947
March 15, 1947
Anril 15, 1947
May 15, 1947
October 15, 1947
November 15, 1947
December 15, 1947
January 15, 1948
February 15, 1948
March 15, 1948
April 15, 1948
Yay 15, 1948
June 15, 1948
July 15, 1948
September 15, 1948
January 15, 1949
LECOUT

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.97)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
ACTION
OF THE
is assigned to
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, December 28, 1948
DIVISION OF
No. 807
NCR.HLAST ASIAN AFIAIRS
CONFIDENTIAL
JAN 149
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Subject: Headquarters of the Japan Communist Party.
894.00B/12-
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to
1/
transmit to the Department a translation of an article
from the November 1948 issue of the an ti-communist
magazine Sempu regarding the Tokyo headquarters of the
Japan Communist Party. The translation was made by the
Rengo News Service.
FE
The article endeavors to expose the situation
prevailing wi thin the party's inner cireles. For the
2
EUR
supported by information from other sources, with the
84
exception of the charge that the party has grown "big
and rich" like a new-yen blackmarket operator. Most
evidence indicates that the party is faced wi th financial
sy
difficulties which, if unsolved, may necessitate curtail-
ing some activities, especially in the expensive publish-
pos
ing field.
ITP
As mentioned by Sempu, the low level of wages paid
DClR
to employees at party headquarters is a frequent so urce
of embarrassment to the communists. In recent months
C
there have been a number of cases where party workers
S
have·been compelled to withdraw from the party because
of inability to live on the low wages paid for full-time
work which precludes part-time employment for a supple-
mentary income. Other withdrawals, as noted in the article,
have been caused by discontent with strict discipline
and the undemocratic management of party affairs. While
featuring the loss of members for these reasons, the
article has, however, ignored the considerable influx
of new members during the past year (this Mission's
despatch No. 716 of November 9, 1948).
EEB 1/7 1949
ofsome
EPARTMENT OF STATE
JAN 12 AM 10 07
RECEIVED
CONFIDENTIAL
18

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch 807,
December 28, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
Of some significance is the article's reference to
Miss TSURUmI Kazuko's close relationship with Mr. KAZAHAYA
Yasoji, one of the party's noted theorists. Miss Tsurumi
is the daughter of TSURUkI Yusuke, well known before the
war as a liberal politician although at present a purgee.
She has been active in leftist women's movements and has
earned the reputation of being a communist sympathizer.
Because of her American education and her excellent command
of English, Miss Tsurumi has become known to Occupation
authorities as an authority on women in the labor movement.
Information from other sources supports the Sempu account
of her close relations with Mr. Kazahaya and the communist
party headquarters.
Among other communist sympathizers mentioned in the
article, Mir. HIRANo Yoshitaro has become conspicuous for
his work with the communist front Democracy Protection
League (this Mission's despatch No. 62l of September 20,
1948), while Mr. DOBASHI Kazuyoshi formally joined the
communist party on December 6.
8
Enclosure:
Article from Sempu
November 19481s sue.
Original and hectograph to Department.
800
RRIM
CNSpinks:mhp
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's Despatoh
No. 807 dated December 28,
1948 from the United States
Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject "Headqnarters
of the Japan Communist Party".
INSIDE JAPAN COLMUNIST PARTY HEADOUARTERS
(From the "SEiPU" November, 1948 Issue)
The Japan Communist Party Headquarters has grown big and rich
in a very short space of time like many new-yen black-market
bourgeoisies of post-war Japan. At 4-chome,; Sendagaya, Yoyogi,
Tokyo there was at first only a solitary grey-colored three-story
building with a red flag hoisted on its tower. The building,
owned by one of the leading members of the party, was offered to
the party to be used as its headquarters without stipulating any
condition.
Around the party headquarters building are now some 10 new
buildings all of which are closely connected with the Communist
Party activities. Included in these buildings are the Akatsuki
Printing Company's work shop. The shares of this printing com-
pany are owned by the party members and their supporters. There
is also the Chuo Shoseki (Central Book Publishing) Company which
has its office and book shop here handling all kinds of books
published by the company as well as by other pro-Communist pub-
lishers, including the Nauka, Ito-shoten, Jinmin-Hyoron-sha, etc.
The book shop is always crowded with custom-rs. It is ironical
that the Communist Party controls these two profit-making companfes
in much the same way as capitalists control their companies.
At the Kyosai-kai Club, next door to the party headquarters,
general merchandises are on sale, many of which are at black
market prices. At the end of the row of the buildings is the
medical consultation clinic under the direct management of the
party for its members.
Right opposite the Communist Party village are rows of
small tea rooms, and "market" shops such as seen anywhere in
post-war Japanese towns. Among these shops is one, the Hikari
Chemical Industry Company office, with a big red star painted on
its signboard. Cakes of soap and other black market goods are
on display in this shop. Other shops are also more or less
being patronized by the party members and their friends on their
way to and from the party headquarters. Along this veritable
Communist Party corridor are daily several hundreds and thousands
of Communist pilgrims from all parts of the country who flock to
visit Japan's Kremlin Palace.
PARTY MEMBERS' WAGES LOWEST IN JAPAN
At the party headquarters in Yoyogi are some 300 regular
employees all of whom are party members. Some of them are on
night shift. The majority of the night shift employees are
those who are in the service of ordinary offices, factories and
newspaper offices as red spies. They are known by many names
like geisha girls and prostitutes. A member who is Suzuki at
the party headquarters is known as Kato somewhere else. Even
within the party headquarters some are known by different names
in different sections. Only a few top-ranking members know the
real names of all the employees.
These

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch 807, December 28,
1948.
-2-
These employees are being forced to be content with small wage
and are under rigid discipline. Nominally all of them are supposed
to be paid the same wage on an equal basis with Kyuichi Tokuda who
is at the top of the party. But this is not so. It is nothing but
propaganda.
The very Communist Farty which directs union leades to demand
"sufficient wages to meet current living expenses" from capitalists
pays its employees wages far from sufficient to meet living expenses.
If any employees voice dissatisfaction on the question of wages they
are accused of being "weak in party consciousness," and disloyal to
the party. This invariably settles all arguments among the members.
As of April this year the employees at the party headquarters
received an average wage amounting to only ¥1,8o0 a month plus ¥250
per each dependent. Although the Communist Party stresses equal
wages for male and female workers, female adult employees at the
party headquarters receive an average ¥1,400. Male student employees
receive the same wage as female adult workers.
are
The employees whc/"connected" with such top-ranking members as
Tokuda, Liyamoto, Shiga or Nosaka are being paid much higher salaries
than ordinary employees who do not belong to any particular groups
among the party. There are "oyabun" (bosses) and "kobun" (henchmen)
even within the Communist Party.
The most powerful "oyabun" at the headquarters is Kenji Miya-
moto whose "group" dominates over others. Conspicuous among this
Miyamoto group is Kameyama who is the chief of the Finance Section
at the headquarters. Miyamoto himself is generally believed to be
the man who would succeed to Tokuda as Chairman of the Central Execu-
tive Committee of the whole party.
The employees have to pay their own transport expenses. They
have to buy pencils and notepaper they require at the headquarters.
They are often forced to buy many of the party publications. As
many as 17 or 18 employees left the headquarters between January and
May this year apparently unsatisfied by their small salaries.
LONG WORKING HOURS FORCED ON EMPLOYEES
The employees at the party headquarters are expected to be on
duty from 9:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. (from November to March) and from 9 a.m.
to 5 p.m. (from April to October) with an hour off from noon six days
a week. The employees register their attendance each morning at the
front door in the presence of one Kentaro Yamabe, member of the
Discipline Committee, who always appears at the reception desk of
the headquarters at 7 a.m. Only female and juvenile employees leave
the headquarters at 5 p.m. Many employees are obliged to stay until
well after 7 p.m. without any extra working hour allowances.
At the Political Bureau and Secretariate Office of the head-
quarters secret conferences are held almost every day keeping
the staff employees long after their regular working hours. Some
40

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch 807, December 28,
1948.
-3-
40 to 50 employees are usually on duty on Sundays on rotation shift.
No Japanese national holidays are observed by the employees. There
are only two holidays, namely May Day and Revolution Memorial Day
besides Sundays for them. The extra working hour allowances are
considered by the headquarters as bourgeoisie-like while the eight-
hour system is completely ignored for the employees of the party
which is supposed to be champion of the labor movement in this
country.
The Akahata (the party's official organ) workers did not join
the new All-Japan Newspaper workers Union on the ground that they
are not allowed to strike. They were included in the old newspaper
and radio workers union and went on strike at the time of the frus-
trated Newspaper Strike in 1946. The Akahata workers' strike at
that time was merely a publicity stunt to induce other newspaper
workers to lay off.
GROWING DISCONTENT AMONG MEMBERS
While many members at the headquarters are poor and seriouly
underpaid there are some who are living in luxury. At the private
residence of Kyuichi Tokuda one always finds whisky, butter, ham
and other rich food stuffs in abundance. Yasoji Kazahaya is another
"wealthy" member of the party. The popular lecturer of the Waseda
University earns big money by writing books and magazine articles.
Always dressed in expensive new suits Kazahaya smokes expensive
foreign cigarettes and eats expensive food. Although he still
lives in an ostensibly shabby small apartment house he is known
to have saved several hundred thousand yen. His private secretary
is as "expensive" as anything else he has around himself. She is
Kazuko Tsurumi, 32-year-old daughter of ex-Diet Member Yusuke
Tsurumi (a purgee), and one of the few Japanese girls who were
privileged to study at Vassar College in the United States. The
pretty little Kazuko is always seen in Kazahaya's room at the
party's headquarters.
DISLIKED MEMBERS AND THINKING MEMBERS
In sharp contrast with Kazahaya and other "wealthy" members
are those who always look very dirty. Dressed in shabby clothes,
their hair uncut and uncombed they appear to be under the impres-
sion that they have got to be dirty, unwashed and unshaved to be
arnest Communists. They are often even mentally lousy and are
disliked by many wherever they are. Ever since the party started
the nation-wide propaganda campaign under which it was aimed at
obtaining one million new members for the party, the intellectual
quality of average members sharply declined. Each member under
the campaign was obliged to win five new members for the party.
Many members unable to find any victims merely "converted" their
wives and children to Communist members. There are some who can-
vassed for membership by "promising" the prospective members to
lessen income tax estimates. Incidentally there are many Communist
members among Government revenue officials.
Qn

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch 807, December 28,
1948.
-4-
On the other hand there are a small number of "thinking"
members who always reflect on themselves. They are deeply dis-
contented with their leaders. They are even critical and suspicious
towards their leaders. According to this group of "thinking"
members: (1) As long as Tokuda and his group remain dominant, the
party could never be expected to be "loved" by people in this
country. It is almost suicidal for the party to continue its
current struggle against anti-strike directives. (2) The so-
called racial independence as it is claimed by the party leaders
is purely a hypocrisy. Shallow and blind imitation of the Soviet
method would get us nowhere. (3) There is no democracy within
the party. There is only tyrannical dictatorship under Kyuichi
Tokuda. (4) There are very few members brave and courageous enough
to fight and struggle against the Tokuda group. The majority are
Tokuda's yes-men.(5) The feudalistic "oyabun-kobun" system is
still evident in the party which is supposed to be the champion
of the modern democracy. (6) If things are left to take their own
course the discontented groups will soon revolt against the party
leaders. (7) Already, among secret members, there are some who are
thoroughly disappointed with the party and seriously considering
founding a new Communist party of their own. (8) While these
thinking members are still faithful towards Communism, they are not
prepared to follow blindly after the party leaders.
The ominous under-current of discontent is gaining power around
the party headquarters in Yoyogi. It is even reported that Tomin
Suzuki, ex-militant editor of the Yomiuri Snimbun, officially left
the party since his continued relationship with the Communist Party
was considered by himself to be fatal in winning a seat in the House
of Representatives in the forthcoming general election from Iwate
Prefecture.
SECRET OF THE PARTY'S FINANCE SECTION
The Japan Communist Farty last year successfully collected more
than six million yen as party fund. Most of this fund was obtained
during the ¥10,000,000 party fund street collection campaign from
people who donted small pocket money. At times the party instructs
its members to collect ¥3oo each as party funds. Regular party
expenses are defrayed by collecting one per cent of regular income
of all members. Women and students are expected to donate about ¥5
each. Of the estimated 100,000 members of the party throughout the
country about 60 per cent are said to be paying their dues without
delay. Although considerable profit is being made by various publi-
cations, the Akahata office owed the Chuo Book Publishing Company
some Y2,600,000 as of June this year.
The circulation of various periodicals being published by the
party follows: The Akahata (daily newspaper), 40,O00 copies; The
Akahata Weekly, 10,O00; The Zenyei (Vanguard) monthly magazine,
15,000; Taishu Club, (People's monthly magazine), 10,000; Kagaku-
to-Gijitsu (Science and Technique) monthly magazine, 7,Oo0; The
Chosa-jiho (Research Magazine) monthly, 10,Oo0; Atarashii-sekai
(New World) monthly, 12,O00.
Many pamphlets and text-books are also published for the
education and training of new members. These books are always
sold to the members and never given away. Rumors have it that
expensive

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
Enolosure to Tokyo's
Despatch 807, December 2,
1948.
-5-
expensive drugs and medicines are being smuggled into this country
from somewhere north in order to line the party's war-chest. It
is also said that the party owns several properous black market
shops near Shimbashi where brisk business is conducted. It is
believed that the party's paid agents are engaged in a nation-wide
black market business.
THE RESEARCH DIVISION
The Research Division is tre nerve center of the party head-
quarters. Placed under the direct supervision of Nosaka and Shiga,
the division with Kazahaya as its chief conducts secret research
work on all important subjects. Among the members of the division
are Takeshi Kumanobu (Lecturer of Law at the Rikkyo University),
Susumu Fukaya (agriculture expert), Seigan Inouye (Section Chief
of the Agriculture-Forestr: Ministry), Joji Nishida (Fuel Section
Chief of the Japan Spinning and Weaving Company), Muraichi Horiye
(Tokyo Metropolitan Education Committee member), Kyushichi Takenaka
(Finance expert), Hajime Tamaki (writer), and Takeshi Fujimoto
(labor expert).
The Marx-Lenin Research Institute is under the direction of
Nosaka himself with Minoru Miyakawa (Professor of the Rikkyo
University) and Tsutomu Asano (Lecturer of the Rikkyo University)
as assistant managers. The members of the Research Division usually
meet on every Wednesday at the Seikei Building in Ochanomizu. A
regular sub-committee meeting of the division is held every Monday
at the same place.
Among the party members and "Sympathizers" are Kihachiro Kimura
(Member of the House of Councillors), Makoto Hori (Member of the
House of Councillors), Masao Iwama (Teachers' Union leader), Ryosaku
Sasaki (Electric Workers' Union leader), Yoshitaro Hirano, Tetsu
Nakamura, Betsuo Hiradate, Shiro Toyoda, Yasuo Kondo, Toshiro Sugi-
moto, Michio Sadasaka, Denshichi Kuroiwa, and Kazuyoshi Dobashi.
A comparatively large number of the party members are found
among employees at the Government Revenue offices, Agriculture-
Forestry Ministry and Economic Stabilization Board. Many party mem-
bers are also found among employees of the Tokyo Bank (former
Yokohama Specie Bank.)

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.97)
FORM DS-322
7-18-46
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
INDICATE
Collect
Departgertoef SAtate
CONFIBENTIA
Charge Department
12N00
Charge to
Washington
CONTROL
6893
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
TOKYO
DEC 31 1948
INFO ARMY CHIEF OF STAFF
FOR ACTING POLITICAL ADVISER
437
One of most successful political accomplishments in
894.00B/1
Japan in terms of present world situation has been frustra-
xR
tion of efforts of Japamese Communists to form real
alliances or cover organizations with other political
elements. Accordingly we are apprehensive rogarding
recent reports of political activity in Japan looking
3148
toward formation of a QUOTE popular front UNQUOTE
(For example CINCFE's RAD C 66559, 24 Dec, and recent
G-2 Far East Command Intelligence Summaries) and would
regard such a step as extremely unfavorable political
development. In Czechoslovakia and elsewhere Communists
have always used the familiar tactic of a QUorE popular
front UNQUOTE as a means of insidious infiltration and
concealed aggression preparatory to domination and final
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
liquidation of all non-Communist elements.
(OFFICES ONLY)
Deterioration of situation in other parts of Far
East correspondingly inoreases the importance of political
686
situation
DCR NE Unit
CONFIDENTIAL
m8
CR CLEARANCE
CS/B
12-3148
Dist.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.94)
FORM DS-322
7-18-46
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
CLASSIFICAT
INDICATE
Collect
CONFIDENTIAL
Departmertdef State
Charge Department
Charge to
Washington
-2
situation in Japan and makes it highly probable that the
Communists will now intensify their efforts there. Unless
Communist activities are counteracted the Jap people
may become even more confused politically. We believe it
appropriate
would, therefore, be worthwhile to give every assistance,
without injecting obvious Us pressure, to enlightened
Japanese to torpedo formation of common fronts, to foster
recognition of Communists as the political pariahs they
are and to maintain isolation of Communists from other
political elements.
pla
please discuss this situation with Genl MacArthur.
Lovelt
(ROVe)
Acting
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
Huung
AG13
FE:NA:MWB1shop/pm
12/30/48
CONFIDENTIAL
CR CLEARANCE
OR
DEC 31 1948

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.98)
TANPALFORM NO.
DATE: 12-30~48
TO
U - Mr. Lovett
Thru : S/s
FROM
FE - Mr. Butterworth
SUBJECT :
I thought you might like
to see this telegram to our Acting
Political Adviser in Tokyo before
it went out.
Attachment.
FE:WWButterworth:mss

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.84)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CGOMSION DE.
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRANORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
CONFIDENTIAL
A
JAN-41910
ARTENTATE
Rec'd January 3, 1948
6:17 p.m.
otien or
Srate
iate
LO
complying
 ur ructione cont iad in Department's
tl0grem
 i have diseseed the matter in
Porerence
tn conera Macnpthur who has authorized
o en his general tews as follows:
 so mapoia, I do not regard the
894.00E
pobenslai Commm:lct thmeat to Japan as
much more
anisavee ractor.The Connunist
popvesenbatae in She Watlouml Diet must increase
①
many fold tetore sss volce in legis ative affairs
vlbie cr er tive en morease not likely
 b meso-able ruture mraddibionally,
too
Japane re won ervative and they have long held
Rua on  aas ake and ohe Chime se an contempt,
ad are mot lsne vo untaraly to cllow the ideological
(2)
adecshty er eitier. In andition, from a sociological
32
standy otot, she vens or the spreed of Communism
4
throush
 emoues, once hhnging upon the feudalistic
9
syetem er erm oruney has now bemr effeetively removed
througe Mhe lens wefos ns whrteh have elevated the individual
mer coos to the digasty of proprietary owmership
and work cus an oficetive system cf farm cooperatives,
leaving no rervm
gro md fos the Communtsts to work
apon in
6
und powepPul  rrsl area of Japanese
society
 nimtely one-halr of the population.
Other aves msve that of irdustriel labor, are similarly
fortiried
wainsr Communist invasion, either through
neturel und tsndataones conservetiem or through edvantages
now he td whied shond uo aga net anything which the
communiats offer.
ec
6
工
69
工
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
165249-1
US COVEHNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.93)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2- /2, January 3. from Tolyo
Tomnunists offer. With industrial labor, the
thuation is different. Its very immaturity in
crganized reform renders it easy prey to leadership
anlch offers a werlth-shuring panacea to existing
Iupoverishment, hewever unsound the promise. The
 tontial danger to every other segment of Japanese
5
Lelety rom e Communisi-controlled labor movement
would be very real and immediste. This is well known
to the Communise Forty which, as a result, has devoted
almost its entire effert to its infiltration to a
deminant positlen of labor leadepship. The numerical
veakness of the Comumiat membership does not permit
>?
aran thas effort to exbend ever a broad labor front,
ans as a conscquer ee lts tactio has been to concentrate
spon those segmonto of lubor mont vital to political
and economie stebslity
It thus s ught to seize control
of the two great government unions, communications and
trenaportatlon, vlsen would have permitted it almost at
wial to pavalyse those vital crterios to Japanese life.
This move was effectively blocked by action to place
2
the publie service cn more stable ground through the
emactment of lars prohibiting the strike and sharply
estricting the right of colleetive bargaining. Hore
recently, With the receipt here of the United States
interin directive on rehabilitation of the Japanese
economy, existing labor strife, then concentrated in the
vital area or pray te induatry covering coal and
electrical energy production, wao brought under control
therough the moral ppeal to support the general welfare
with, of course, the dominant thrluence which an
will tis last?
cepupation reguirerment end leadership exercises upon
sis phasos of sndagenous aetivitr.
"t do not view with concern balk of a popular front!
in Japan. So far such balk has been entirely confined
to the Communiet Farty cnd its afriliates. A splinter
group from the left wing of the Social Democratic Party
may possibly join vith the Communista in the couree of
oo immediately fellowing the coming election, as there
ia ahready groat simllarity in polltical philosophy and
teetie, but the resulting coalihson would be of little
political consequence. On the other hand, such a move
Fould leave the Sosial Denoeratic Party, cleansed of its
most unruly
CONFTDENTIAL

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
-3- #2, January 3, from Tokyo.
most unruly and troublesome element, in an infinitely
ironger position to contribute objectively to the
country's need, either as an opponition party or segment
 a government coalitlon. This party should more
p operly be named as the 'Labor Party', as organised
and led by outatanding labor leaders and finding most
a! its support in the ranks of labor, its advocacy of
Soe! llu: is at most a long range advocacy and its
Lueciate purpose is to support legislation of direot
Rcbor tnteresi part from its radical left wing
contioned, is is fundamentally more conservative than
vurentional sosialism and is openly opposed to the
streme of either the richt or the left.
"The reatat b out for the spread of Communism in Japan
tos in the mmmitlon which from time to time is supplied
Ato loon loadership through thoughtlces and irresponsible
praes ctaiemonts cuinabing largely from Washington
that Washingten officiel opinion is in harmony with
Jupupation ob jeetives and action. Such statements,
ucually cscribed to anonymous official sources frequently
e real encouragement to the local Communist leaders
ne bowildor the Japanese masses. Intentionally or not,
tney are not infrequently timed end pihrased to checkmate
Loca! efforts to ensure the vigorous implementation by
tlyo Japunese of American policy and almost invariably
Lemd aid to the Communiot propaganda effort. I am only
now tringing a glaring example or this condition to the
attentlon of the Department of the Arry by radio C-66781
of muary 3. In addition, such tems of manifest diocrim-
iculion as the area restrictions placed upon Japanese
7
Ceep sea fishing in the Pacific, n contravention of
the explicit provisionu of the Po sdam declaration, well
krown to the Japanese, with respeet to access to raw
materinle and the fact that approximatoly four times as
mich por capita aid is being given to the German people
chan to the Japanese provides the Communist Party with
the amunition it needs to support: the racial solidarity
coneept it advocates to gain adherents within Japan.
"There is little that should be done now being done here
714'
8(1)
to check the advance of Communism, but should iho threat
in future become greatly aggravated or should such a
common front becomo a threatening reality, I should,
of course,
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.93)
CONFIDENTIAL
 /2, January 3, from Tolkyo.
f couree, search for a legal means to apply direet
:3ure which I have heretofore avoided as inadvisable
 nneccssaryIn final analysis, were injudicious
tements in ashington, oft-times made to woo
Ipican pressure groups avoided and a more positive
9.
 o suppor siven the occupation, overwhelming of
 ommunist movement in Japan through its complete
puaation by the Jupanese people would be rendered
laf nutely easier."
ioferration to Doportment of Arny.
SEBALD
CBF
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.98)
178:
CCoville:hh
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
MWBfila
ADDRESS OFFICIAL COMMUNICATIONS TO
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, January 5, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department use only).
Dear Max:
I was, of course, much disappointed in both the tone and
introduction of extraneous subjects in the General's statement
(our telegram No. 2, January 3, 1949) in reply to the Depart-
ment's popular front telegram; and in a substantive way, we
are far from agreeing that the immediate potential communist
threat to Japan is little more than a nuisance factor. In the
light of our recent despatches with regard to the political
situation in Japan and with regard to communism in Japan, I
believe that it is unnecessary for me to elaborate in detail
the sort of reply which we would have made, if we had been
doing the drafting, to your message.
As you know, we are concerned that hindrances interposed
by Headquarters in the path of the YOSHIDA Government will,
in the present disintegrated state of party alignments in the
middle political area, be exploited by the left and act to the
advantage of the communists. I should like to have been able
to work this into the reply in some manner, but under the circum-
stances it appeared preferable to let the General's views go
forward without further comment and purely as his personal
analysis of the problem.
Sincerely yours,
Brit
Max W. Bishop, Esquire,
Chief, Division of Northeast Asian Affairs,
Department of State,
Washington.
CONFIDEN TIAL

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.95)
JAN 719
RESTRICTED
o. 3
To the
Acting United States Political Adviser for Japan,
894.00B/1-749
Tokyo.
The Secretary of State refers
wrmnxrererende/to the Departmext's telegram Ne.
437 dated December 31, 194s, thmaseatargcxafxskanx and
enoloses in single copy doouments prepared in the
Department bearing on the subjeet of united fromt
tactios by the Communists. Information contaimed
in these documents is for such use as the Asting
Political Adviser may rind apprepriate and helpful
in discussions with General Meadquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers, or in efferts to
combat the formatiom of a united front in Japan.
CSA
Enclosures:
1. Soviet Affairs Motes,
Number 14.
2.
Extracts from Communist
Literature Bearing on
594.00B
United Front Tacties.
RESTRIOTED
C
J
FE
FE: NA: MWB1 ehop: Jh
1/5/49

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.95)
lum 
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
CONFIDENTIAL
TO
NA - Mr. Bishop
DATE: January 10, 194
SUBJECT:
Releon
As you requested, this memorandum/summarizes the
comments I made concerning various aspects of Japanese
NAEh
affairs in which you expressed interest.
Growth of Communism in Universities
Be Returned to
Observation of activities in Japanese universities
during my tour of duty in Japan has convinced me that
Communism is increasing to a disturbing extent both among
faculties and students. Major reasons are believed to
be:
1. Revelations of the Showa Denko Scandal which
894.00 B/1-1049
have given Communists a fertile ground for claims that
8
capitalism is a corrupt system.
2. Disappointment at lack of sufficient improve-
ment in general economic conditions in Japan to enable
adequate financial support for students, faculties, and
educational facilities.
3. Claims by repatriates from Soviet areas con-
cerning lack of racial discrimination in the USSR.
4. Reported success of Chinese Communists in
improving conditions in areas coming under their control.
5. Belief that the spread of Communism in Asia will
have inevitable repercussions upon Japanese affairs.
6. Effectiveness of Communist propaganda and organ-
izational skill of Communist leaders. (I was impressed
CS/M
and alarmed to note the caliber and ability of some of
the Communist leaders with whom I have talked. Theirv
enrnestness and conviction makes them all the more
dengerous.)
Anl
894.000
7. Intellectual curiosity.
The increased interest in Communism on the partf
Intellectuals appears to be part of a shift in the character
of membership of the Communist party--gains being made
among intellectuals, repatriates, and farmers, but l sses
11049
27
bei
CONFIDENTIAL
3

=== Page 57 === (confidence 1.00)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
being sustained in industry. It is possible that the
latter trend may be reversed to some extent by the revi-
sion of the National Public Service Law since there was
unanimous opposition on the part of labor to the revi-
sion's prohibition against collective bargaining.
With increasing proximity to Soviet areas, as in
Hokkaido, there is greater passivity on the part of the
majority of the population toward Communism in order to
insure against retaliation should the Communists acquire.
power and at the same time a greater attraction to young
people, both in and out of universities. These latter
feel that they have nothing to lose by joining the Com-
munists and that moreover their future advancement may
become certain.
Popular Front in Japan
When I left Japan in November, there appeared to be
a possibility that a Popular Front might develop. I under-
stand that recent information from Japan confirms the
emergence of such & front. The graft, corruption, and
moral decay among the Japanese political parties I believe
will tend to cause many voters to support those left wing
groups which are cooperating with the Communists in a
united front as well as to cause many other voters to
support the Communist Party itself. While it is hard to
conceive that the Popular Front is powerful enough at
this time to be a major danger, it is a sufficient threat
to bear close scrutiny in the future. A point to bear in
mind is that the Communists and their sympathizers are
encouraged by the developments in China and may be expected
to intensify their activities as a result.
Standard of Living of Japanese Must Be
Improved to Halt Spread of Communism
The enormous difference in standard of living between
this country and Japan was dramatically impressed upon me
when I stopped in Honolulu on my way to Washington. There
I saw what appeared to be the same Japanese people, but
they were well-dressed, well-housed, and healthy. The
Japanese I had seen a few hours earlier in Tokyo were
badly clothed and housed and in comparison far less healthy
even though the food situation has gradually improved. It
is small wonder that Communism is spreading and will con-
tinue to do so unless the standard of living in Japan is
improved
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 58 === (confidence 1.00)
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
improved and ways and means found to improve the morale
of the people so that they will exert all their energies
toward rehabilitation.
The standard of living has not improved as rapidly
as the Japanese feel that they have been led to expect by
the Japanese Government and the Occupation. The contrast-
ing lavish scale of living of Occupation personnel arouses
resentment since it is considered by many Japanese as
retarding improvement in their own living conditions.
Other factors also prevent speedy recovery, for example,
failure to determine reparations and decentralization prob-
lems serves as a deterrent by discouraging initiative and
planning for the future. And, as has been repeatedly
reported, the indiscriminate purging of businessmen severely
handicaps recovery. There is a need for reviewing cases
of these men who have taken no part in ultra-militarist
and ultra-nationalist activities so that they can take
active part in the rehabilitation of Japan.
Only with maximum use of Japanese resources and suf-
ficient outside aid for several years can Japan achieve
a decent, even though low, standard of living which she
herself can support. The outside aid will have to come
mostly from the United States not only because she is the
only country which can afford to help, but as the prin-
cipal occupying power it is to her best interest to
assist Japan to become self-supporting in order to
alleviate the burden on American taxpayers.
Occupation in Stage of Diminishing
Returns
I have been more and more impressed with the fact
that the Occupation has been in a stage of diminishing
returns for over a year. There is an apparent and
accelerating irritation at the Occupation, not that the
reasons appear always to be logical or very specific.
Apparently, as in other occupations no matter how
benevolent, the populace has become weary of having
foreigners dictating its affairs. There is evident a
certain amount of frustration at short-comings of the
Occupation, at a lack of clear-cut policies and coordina-
tion between various sections of General Headquarters,
and at a lack of objectivity on the part of many members
of the Occupation, as well as disappointment at the caliber
of Occupation personnel.
It seems
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-4-
It seems that, even though the Japanese Occupation
is probably the most successful benevolent in history,
it would have been better to have corncluded it at least
by the end of the first two years. However, since world
events have precluded a peace treaty and it may be in
our best interest not to have one at the present time,
the United States should seek to have the Japanese assume
more and more the conduct of their own affairs. As it is,
the Occupation has become progressively involved in the
direction of minute details of Japanese affairs to such
an extent that Japanese leaders are prone to leave ini-
tiative and decisions to the Occupation, particularly in
cases where policies are apt to be unpopular. It is to
the interest of the United States to encourage the Japanese
to assume responsibilities before the end of the Occupation
in order that the transition to a more normal state of
affairs does not result in chaos.
The present temper of the Japanese people is deter-
mined in the main by an impelling desire to return to
normal conditions. The desire is to leave the war behind,
to write it off whatever the cost. The lack of a peace
settlement is an overpowering obstacle, both practical
and psychological, in Japan's path. There is hope that a
peace treaty will come soon, but with a guarantee of pro-
tection, since Japan has no way of defending herself. The
guarantee is important in order to allay apprehension on
the part of the Japanese people that Japan may be abandoned
by the United States in the case of war with the USSR.
In lieu of a peace treaty, I believe that the United
States and most of our allies would benefit by limiting
the scope of the Occupation to policy matters and super-
vision. The Japanese could handle the operating details,
thereby emerging from their present "hot-house" state and
assuming the duties for which a government is customarily
responsible. I am convinced that the Japanese are capable
of so doing and also that if the Occupation continues long
in its present form the brains and will of the Japanese
will become progressively flabby with greater dependence
on the United States and increased susceptibility to
Communism.
In conclusion, I believe that in shifting responsi-
bility to the Japanese, the Occupation should be streamlined
by such steps as the elimination of Military Government
teams in the field and drastic reduction in General
Headquarters personnel. Since the Occupation has become an
intrenched bureaucracy, I feel that the only practical
means of accomplishing changes of this character is to
determine an exact deadline for their achievement and to
stick to it.
POS/F:WHLawrence:fhh
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.96)
Ristricted
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
Office of
TO
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DATE:
1/19/49
FEB-3194
FROM : Mr. Lory
DInFetan
suBJEcT: Change in Japen Communist Perty's Campaign Strategy.
In the present political camoaign the Japan Communist
Party is advocating less revolutionary policies than it
has in any rrevious post-wer elections. It is courting
the favor of small and medium class business by making
pronouncements that the present Government tax program is
driving suct business firms into bankruntcy. The Commun-
ists have estchlished tax consultant offices where small
Files
Central
OC/R
This Document Must Be
on procedures that will reduce their tax payments. In
order to obtain additionel sun ort from this class of
894.00B
business the JCP is even encouraging cooneration between
labor and manegement.
Suc' infiltrating prectices of the Communists should
be carefully observed. This action shorld serve as a
warning. for it clearly indicatee that the Japanese Com-
munists have launched on a proeram of strengthening their
position by broadenirg their base of appeal in order to
obtain the sup ort of these grouns which they would in the
end destroy once the control of the Government paseed int
I
their hands.
1
949
In lire with the above strategy it is reasonable to
expect that the Commulist Party will in the future use
Shintoiem and Euddhgism as a vehicle for gaining greater
power in Japen thus adopting the strategy of the Russian
Communists whereby they uFe the Russian Orthodox Church
as e vehicle for strenghthening their position.
CS/DL
S
8
8:0
FE:NA:HLOPy:aw

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
Office Memorandum
UNITED STATES GAVERNMENT
office of
TO
FE - Mr. Butterworth
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DATE nuary 25, 1949
51949
FROM
NA - Mr. B1shop
DIMEGTOR
Paregent of Dram
SUBJECT:
Initial Comment on Japanese Election Returns of January 23.
There are two facts which stand out immediately in a glance
at the results of the recent Japanese elections: first, the
emergence of a majority party, and second, the striking in-
crease in popular vote and elected candidates of the Communist
Party.
Files
Central
This Document Must Be
The emergence of the majority party led by Yoshida will
protably have both favorable and unfavorable effects upon the
occupation. The fact that a sufficient number of Japanese
political leaders were able to unite to bring about a majority
party is clear evidence that they hare begun to "settle down"
politically and that the prospect of continued political con-
fusion and reluctance to accept responsibility may be avoided.
Undoubtedly the Japanese leaders in Yoshida's party are aware
of political difficulties which they face in accepting clear S
responsibility for government in Japan. It remains to be seen
Returned to
whether they can work out a successful compromise between the
necessity to yield to SCAp's will ana the requirement of the
Japanese peopleto again take hold of their own affairs and to
improve their lot.That Japanese leaders of sufficient number
decided to accept a clear majority responsibility for govern-
ment affairs under the occupation may be indicative of their
acceptance of the fact that the occupation will probably have
to continue for an indefinite period. While it is likely that
Yoshida's government will give serious attention to cooperation
with the occupation and with Us policies so far as they are made
known, we may also expect increasing evidence of Japanese recog-
nition of their bargaining powers in dealing with both the
occupation and with the United States Government.
The great 1ncrease in Communist strength in, open political
affairs of Japen is but further evidence of the even greater
strength which Communism enjoys throughout the Japanese nation.
It is an oversimplification and, I believe, a misinterpretation
of the Japanese political scene to view this election as indi-
cating the disintegration of the "center parties". "Center
894.008
parties", in the true sense of the term, were in Japan more
indicative of political confusion and reluctance to accept
politiaal respons bility under the occupation than of diversity
of political thought or aspiration. The present strength of
DC/K
50
the Communists
CONFIDENTIAL
Northerst
FILE
Asian Aftars
549
Divis.on
C

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2 -
the Communists will enable them to bring significant pressure
to bear on all labor and radical movements to form a common
front, but it remains to re seen whether they will be succees-
ful in uniting all labor and socialist parties to form an
opposition front or whether they will be forced to stand alone
as Communists without the camouflage of a common front.
It would seem to me that the one clear fact which emerge
from this election is that we can now expect a stiffening of
Japanese attitudes toward the occupation and toward the United
States. If this change results in the acceptance by the
Japanese Government of ever-increasing initiative and responsi-
biiity and in more harmonious and more nearly normal relations
between Japun and the United States it may be altogether a
hopeful development for the future. Nevertheless the situation
remains fraught with uncertainties, all of which do not stem
from the Japanese themselves.
nuu
FE:NA:MWB1shop/pm
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.95)
C-7
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
IVA
CONFIDENTIAL
TO
NA - Hr. Bishop
DATE:
Feb. 10, 1949
DIVISION OF
Attn: Mr. Lory
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFS
FROM
SY - Hr. Nicholson
SUBJECT:
Comunist Perty of Japan
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
A conridential source within the Government has informed
this Division thrt on Hovenber 9, l94e, the following translated
article appeared in the "Hawaii Times", a bilingual Japanese-
English newspaper:
"THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE COLLULIST PARTY OF JAPAN
HAY BE ESTABLISHED AT HOKKAIDO
"The Conmunist Party of Japan recently has been
strengthening its party structure in Hokkaido and, ac-
cordin to a very reliable Japanese source, this is an
indication of the intention of the Communist Party of
Japan to move its Tokyo Headquarters to Hokkaido should
the circu..st:..ees require it in the future.
"accordine to this source, three branches have been
strengthened at present and these are all located
strategically. The first is Shintoku, located in the
central area of Hokkaido end generally regarded as the
894,00
stronghold of the National Railroad Workers Union. The
next is sunagawa, a coal mining center located on the
northern tip of Sapporo Plain. The third is Obihiro,
whicn is so located as to be able to control the wide
southeastern coastal area of Hokkaido.
B
"Although Ritsu Ito, member of the Central Executive
Conmittee of the Comnuunist Perty of Japan, refuted the
report of the transfer of the party headquarters to
2
Holkaido as erroneous, he adnitted that the party branches
in Shintoku, Sunagawa, and Obihiro are model district
branches defended against the attacks of the rightists
by goon squads. Each of these branches is manned by
15 officers end a goon squad of 150 men. Besides these
branches, there are 13 others in Hokkaido, all possessing
non squads of considerable strength. The names being 
Anal.
useu by these goon squads are 'Kuroshio Kai (Black CurrenD
Rev
Soaiety) Sakura Kai (Cherry Blossom Society) and others
ornerly used by nationalistic organizations.
E
P
"According to the Japanese source, illegal Japanese
repatriates are smuggling themselves across fron the
kuriles ond Saghalien and are active as agents of the
CONFIDEITIAL
DECLASSIFIED
NN) 280069
By 7G/C.NARS, Dato 8.24-28

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
Cominforn. There are about 20 of then and, although
they are ne bers of the various branches, they are not
officially party members of the Communist Party of
Jepen and are operating independently for the respective
branches to which they belong. Some of them have even
smuggled thenselves into Japan proper end are carrying
on sicilar activities for the Comnunist Party of Japan.
They, too, are not officially registered members of
the party. Besides, these illegal repatriates reportedly
are maintaining liaison with out side sourcest through
certain meens.
"Refuting this report, Ritsu ITo made the follow-
ing statenent: 'such report was fabricated by rightist
elements for the purpose of calumniating the Communist
Party of Japan. Besides, there is a rumor of an
Independence Lovenent! in Hokkaido. The Conmunist
Party of Japan is opposed to this, too!"
A copy of this conmunication has been forwarded to the
Director of Intelligence, Department of the Army by the source.
CON:SY:HHGosho: sp
COHFIDENTIAL

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.98)
NA
DIVISION OF
CURTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRO
MEMORANDUM
CPALMENT OF STATE
17 February 1949
From:
J
/H/13
Via:
HM and JJR
General M hopes that R will inform high authorities in Washington
that the Co..munists in Japan are conducting systematic subversive activ-
ities. Specifically they are trying to win or gain one fifth of the police
Central
OC/R
This Document Must Be Returned to
effective in the rural areas. The General hopes the American authorities
will continue to pay attention to these developments. The General has many
89
friends in the rural areas, where it is easier to observe such activities,
and many of these friends come up to Tokyo fron time to time and inform him
of these activities.
4
Another source of information is students. A student in Tokyo Universit
came to see Hl.. He was very much worried because of the Communist activities
He reported that cells already are well established in the University and that
members take every opportunity to spread unfair anti-american feeling.
B
He said:
"From the very early days of the occupation there have been rumors that
2
some occupation personnel were sympathetic to the Communists. It would be a 
good idea for the United States to send expert investigators from the FBI or 
similar organizations to observe accurately the activities of occupation per-
sonnel and of Japanese Coamunists. The investigation into un-American activities
may well be extended over here. That woula be one direct method. Another method,
indirect, woula be to release the purge of capiole Japanese business men. The
fundamental thing is to establisn the livelihood of the Japanese and in order
to stabilize their livelihood, while it is natural to exploit natural resourc,
it would be still more effective if the Japanese were allowed to use their hu)
man assets, such as patriotic and competent men now. barred by the purge. So @
if the United states wi l let the Japunese use their men, they will prove to 
assets for the United States also. The purden on American taxpayers would be-
come even more extensive if the Communists are successful in Japan.
No direct proof of Soviet activity is in the hands of tnis informant, but
it appears to him to be obvious that the Communists are getting their funds
from abroad because their acts require funds. The Communists are smuggling
in medicines which are hard to get in Japan and are selling them in rural
894.00B/2-1749
areas, thereby accunulating large sums of money.
8
Y

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.96)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
NA - Mr. B1shop
DATE: March 3, 1949
TO
Central
RM/R
This Decuent Must Be Returned
NA - Mr. Lory
FROM
JCP Appeal to Nationalism
contiming to
SUBJECT:
Two positions recently taken by the Japan Communlst
Party seem to indicate that it is attempti to become
the symbol of nationalism, thereby striking a sympathetio
chord in Japanese psychology.
1. Mr. Tokuda, Secretary General of the JCP, recently
stated that Japanese Communists would fight any nation that
attempted to invade Japan.
2. The JCP in announcing its views regarding the
territorially, racially and historically Japanese must be
returned to Japanese sovereignty; that there should be a
894.00B/3-349
complete withdrawal of all foreign troops from Japanese
territory and that there shall be no provision within the
treaty which require Japan to renounce war, as the Japanese
people should be permitted the right of self-defense.
S
WW
894.00B
D/h
w
49

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.95)
lile
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
SEORET
FE - Mr. Butterworth
Mr. Allison/
DATE: March,10, 1949
TO
S/P- Mr. Davies
EE - Mr. Hooker
FROM
NA - Mr. Bishop
Files
Central
SUBJECT:
Attached is a copy of a paper "A Review of Communism
in Japan".
This is an initial effort on the part of NA to
compile and to study information regarding Communiem
in Japan. The study will be a continuous one and un-
doubtedly improvements in the scope and analysis of
the information at hand will be forthcoming from time
to time. It 1s believed that the author of this
initial study, however, has done a highly creditable
job, and has shown clearly the very great progress which
to
Communism has made in Japan in inriltrating such broad
fields as labor and education and in the, possibly
decisive, field of capturing the minds of youth.
894.00B/3-1049
I suggest that you may find it worthwhile to read
at least the first two-page summary and such other
sections as you may find of particular interest.
NA would welcome suggestions for its continuing
study of this developing movement.
m.WB.
CS/W
E
MAY1 1956
894.00 B
ECRET FILE
ILE
FE:NA:MWBishop/pm
D
BEGRET
D
An 4
Rea
DECLASSIFIED
N~D 250065
y
Ca
By TG CY HARS, Date 8.2/.28

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
A REVIEW OF COMMUNISM IN JAPAN
Division of Northeast Asian Affairs
Hillis Lory
SECRET

=== Page 69 === (confidence 1.00)
SECRET
A REVIEW OF COMMUNISM IN JAPAN
Table of Contents
Page
Political Review 192l - September 1945
1
Political Review October 1945 to the Fresent
6
Japan Communist Party Schools
17
Pustwar Communist Activities in Labor
19
Postwar Communist Youth Organizations
26
Postwar Communist Activities Among Farmers
29
Postwar Communist Activities Among Japanese Women
32
Postwar Communist Activities in the Press
36
Postwar Communist Activities in the Theater
42
Postwar Communist Activities in Education
47
Conclusion
58
Leftist Organizations in Japan
61
Bibliography
65

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
SECRET
- A -
Summary
The Communist movement in Japan commenced 1n 1921 shortly
after NOSAKA Sanzo and TOKUDA Kyiuchi, present day leaders of
the Japan Communist Party, returned from a meeting of the Far
Eastern Comintern presided over by Joseph Stalin. After the JCP
was organized in July of l922, Communists infiltrated into the
various proletarian parties and into educational circles. The
Japanese Government made every effort to stamp out Communism
through arrest and imprisonment of Party members. This action
weakened the JCP and drove many of its leaders abroad, notably
Nosaka where later 1n 1943 at Yenan, China he converted Japanese
prisoners of war into Communist propagandists.
The release of political prisoners by SCAP in October, 1945
marked the postwar resurrection of the JCP. Immediately upon their
release from prison, Communist leaders led by Tokuda and Shiga
formulated plans to make the JCP an active political force. Com-
munists made repeated efforts to secure the cooperation of the
Social Democrats in order to create a popular front, but each
effort failed. In the first election for membere of the House of
Representatives the JCP polled 2 million votes and seated 5 can-
didates. In the election held the following year in April, 1947
for the Houee of Representatives, the JCP polled a million votes
and elected four candidates. The Communists made tremendous gains
in the January 23, 1949 election when they polled 3 million votes
and seated 35 candidates. Their succees may be attributed to
greater effort and money expended than in previous campaigns;
concentration of votes on fewer candidates, less revolutionary
program which afforded a broader base of vote appeal, corruption
in Social Democratic and Liberal parties, revision of the National
Public Service Law and lastly the enhanced prestige derived from
Communiet victories in China.
The JCF has been very succeesful in their infiltration into
labor unions. Communist experience in labor activities gave them
an advantage over other labor organizations in the preliminary
stages of union organization which followed Japan's surrender.
Communists secured control of the National Congress of Industrial
Unions (Sambetsu), the largeet labor federation. 63% of the Central
Executive Committee, 9l% of the adminietrative department chiefs,
8l% of the Secretariat and 75% of the officials of the Sambeteu are
Party members. The Communist leaders in the Sambetsu have initiated
general strikes in Japan.
Youth organizations are effective instruments for promoting
Communism. The Young Communist League is the most active and serves
as a link between the JCP and various youth activities in industry
and education. The Communists have attempted to unify Japanese
youth groups into large organizatione such ae the Japan Democratio
Youth League.
The
SECRET

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.98)
SFCRFT
The JCP has made little progress in winning converts among
reaching land reform. Communist efforts to secure converts among
succeeded infiltrating into the Japan Farmere Union, the largest
agricultural organization.
The JCP has capitalized upon the postwar emancipation of women.
Communist efforts to recruit feminine support have been aimed pri-
marily at the 1,500,000 women members of labor unions. Nosakas
wife, JCP Womene Chief, has inaugurated drives to win converts by
appealing to the outetanding women in the community through educa-
tional and cultural organizations. There are two womene organizations
on a national level dominated by Communiets, the Womens Democratio
Club end the Democratic Womens Council.
In the reorganization of the newspapers and the creation of
press unions immediately after the surrender, Communists and their
sympathizers seized the key positions both in the editorial staffs
and in the unione. KIKUNAMI Kateum1 and SUZUKI Tonin, both Party
members, became Chief Editors of Tokyo's most important papers,
Asahi and Yomiuri. In addition to dominating a considerable segment
of Japanese presε the JCP publishes its own newspapers and magazines,
the most important of which are the Red Flag and the Vanguard.
Communists are using sucressfully the Japanese love of the
theater to promote their propaganda. They have organized their
own amateur troupes and control also the Theatrical Section of the
Democratic Cultural League. Scripts of plays are Communist flavored
and are distributed to amateur and professional actors.
Next to labor, Communists have perhaps made their greatest
gains in Japanese education. It 1s estimated that e% of the teachers
in Japanese middle schools, 13% in the colleges and 37% in the univ-
ersities are Communists or Communist sympathizers. Economic and
financial difficulties of the teachers in the postwar era provide
fertile ground for Communist propaganda. The discarding of the
political theory of the Sacred Emperor has left in the minds of
Japanese students a political vacuum that invites Communist doo-
trines. Open Communist activities in the schools have centered
primarily about the formation of cells. Preseure movements and
strikes are promoted through the Young Communiet League and other
youth organizations. Numeroue Communist front organizations are
an important part of Communist technique in winning converts in
Japanese educational fields. Many Communist professors are active
leaders in these front organizations. The fear of the future and
the defeatism of the students in Japan are also powerful allies of
Communiem.
Communism's appeal to the Japanese is more basic than westerners
realize. The Japanese are a communal people accustomed to forfeiting
individual liberty on the demand of the state. The Communist idea of
strife and conspiracy appeals to the mentality of fanatioal Japanese.
Japanese minds have been conditioned also to the sgoialtem of the pre-
war militarists who had denounced capitalism.
SLUHET

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-1 -
Political Review 1921 - September 1945
At Irkutsk, Siberia, in 192l Josef Stalin presided at
a Far Eastern Conference of the Comintern. Two ardent young
Japanese radicals, NOSAKA Sanzo and TOKUDA Kyuichi, attended
this meeting and thus early in their revolutionary careers
came under the direct influence of the present Russian dictator.
Inspired by this conference, these two revolutionaries returned
home determined to establish a Communist Government in Japan.
The following year, July 1922, the Japan Communist Party
(Nippon Kyosanto) was formed as an underground organization
by a small group of Japanese radicals led by Tokuda and SHIGA
Yoshio. Nosaka, who at that time wae busy with his own
revolutionary activities as secretary and leader of the
left wing faction of the General Labor Alliance, officially
joined the party a few weeks later. Theee three have become
the ruling triumvirate of the resurrected Communist Party in
post-war Japan.
Not long after its formation, the J.C.P. sent delegates
to Moscow to attend a meeting of the Soviet Comintern.
KATAYAMA Sen, a eocialist who had fled from Japan in 1913
and who was a member of the Executive Committee of the Com-
munist International, took these Japanese delegates in charge
and became literally their teacher, protector and source of
inspiration. While they were in Russia these representatives
received
SECRET

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
-2-
received inetructions from the Comintern to return to Japan
and work for the overthrow of the Government and the estab-
lishment of a Communist dictatorship. Following the delegates
return from Moscow, the first Japan Communist Party Convention
was called in Tokyo under the name of a fertilizer company's
annual meeting.(1)
In June 1923, the Japanese Government launched a drive
to break up the Communist Party by arresting and imprisoning
Communists and alleged Communists. Nosaka, Shiga and Tokuda
were among those imprisoned. Several members of the Party
escaped to Shanghai and Moscow. There, attempts were made to
reorganize the J.C.P. This action by the Japanese Government
to stamp out the Japan Communist Party weakened the Party's
internal organization. Nevertheless the Communists continued
to win converts and sympathizers, especially from among
etudents and professors. An example was a Communist student
group organized at Keio Univereity in 1923 by Nosaka while
he was a lecturer there. Some of Japan's prominent Communist
leaders later emerged from this student group.(2)
During the 1920s many Communiste had infiltrated into
proletarian parties that sought the support of Japanese
farmers and laborers. These infiltrating techniques were
so euccessful in the Labor-Farmer Party (Rodo Nominto) that
the Communists virtually controlled that organization. It
ie significant that Nosaka, the Communist leader today was
one
(1) Yenan Report No. 43, January 22, 1945, p. 6-7.
(2) Yenan Report No. 43, January 22, 1945, p. 7-8.
SECRET

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
一3 -
one of the organizers of this party. Communiet influence
in that decade reached 1te peak in the l928 election when
the Communists supported the Labor-Farmer Party which polled
approximately 200,o00 votes and elected two of its candidates
to the Diet. Its popular vote was greater than that received
With the resurgence of nationalism in the 1930s, Com-
muniem lost much of 1ts appeal to many Japanese who had
accepted its tenets the previous decade. The more moderate
left-wing parties now attracted many. Numbers of Communists
and fellow travellers joined the camp of the young fanatical
militarists whose loudly proclaimed attacks on capitalism, the
concentration of wealth and the proposed nationalization of
industry, were essentially in harmony with the Communist party
1ine.
Nosaka escaped to Russia in 193l and for several years
following, he participated in various Executive Committee
Plenary Conferences of the Comintern in Moscow. Two years
after Katayama's death, in 1935, Nosaka was elected to succeed
him as a full member of the Comintern's Central Executive
Committee. Even while living abroad he kept in touch with
Communists in Japan through the underground.
Nosaka maintained a cloee contact with KAJI Wataru and
AOYAMA Kazuo in particular. These two Communist sympathizers
were engaged in peychological warfare for the Chinese
Nationaliet
(3) Yenan Report No. 43, January 22, 1945, p. 9.
SECRET

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
SECRET
-4 -
Nationalist Government. Their objective was to persuade
Japanese soldiers to surrender, by broadcasts that declared
the Japanese people, rather than the militarists, should
control the Government, and that the Emperor system should
be abolished. Japanese soldiers, who did surrender, became
members of the Haneen Domei (Anti-War League) which had been
organized by Kaji and Aoyama. Nosaka was convinced that the
most effective method for keeping the Japan Communist Party
alive during the war, and thereby have an active force to
work with when hostilities ceased, was the organization of
Japanese prisoners of war intc an aggreesive Communist group.(4)
Nosaka (now known as OKANO Susumu in China) arrived in
Yenan in Communist controlled China in May 1943. He 1mme-
diately assumed the direction of activities for converting
Japanese prisoners of war into Communist propagandists. A
Japanese Workers and Peasants School was establiehed at Yenan
for this purpose. Nosaka either wrote or eupervised the
writing of propaganda leaflets urging Japanese soldiers to
surrender. "An Appeal to the Japanese People" is considered
his most important propaganda work of this period. In this
leaflet, Nosaka appealed to the Japanese people to bring the
war to an end, by organizing a peoples front, crushing the
militarists and establishing a peoples' government.(5)
Nosaka's program for a post-war Japan emerged more
clearly at the beginning of 1944, when the Anti-War League
was dissolved, and the Japanese Peoples' Emancipation League
(Nippon
(4) OIR Report No. 2530A, January 1, 1949, p.62-64.
(5) Yenan Report No. 43

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
- 5 -
(Nippon Jimmin Kaiho) was established in 1ts place. This
new organization was designed to attract the support of
Japanese all over the world and to serve as a nucleus of
a popular front movement, which would ultimately lead to
a Communist dictatorehip in Japan.
The propaganda of the Japanese Peoples' Emancipation
League was couched in the usual euphonistic terms, such as
"people's government", "democratic processes" and "freedom
of speech". However, in place of advocating the immediate
abolition of the Emperor system, the League proposed
vaguely that this system should be eliminated in Japan
gradually.(6)
Noeaka made every effort to obtain the blessing of
the Allied governments on his organization. It was his
ambition that when hostilities ended, this League would be
a nucleus around which a postwar Communist government would
be formed in Japan under Allied Occupation. Although he
received a sympathetic hearing in certain quarters, the
Allied governments worked with him officially only on the
techniques of peychological warfare.
(6) Yenan Report No. 43, January 22, 1945, p. 11.
GHQ, Far East Command, Civil Intelligence Section,
Periodical Summary, No. 34, November 15, 1948,
Summation Section p. 3-6.
SECRET

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
6
Political Review October 1945 to the Present
The release of all political prisoners by SCAP's directive
in October 1945 marked the postwar resurrection of the Japan Com-
munist Party. By this directive, 507 Communists were liberated
and 2026 Communist sympathizers and other radicals were freed
from police surveillance.(1)
Immediately upon release from prison, TOkUDA Kyuichi and
SHIGA Yoshio, two of the founders of the original Japan Communist
Party, and other liberated Communists emerged again as active
Party leaders. A general congrese of Party members met at Tokyo
in December 1945. This meeting was officially called "The Fourth
General Congreee" as evidence of the Party's continuity since
its organization in 1922. There was no attempt made at this
convention to formulate a definite party platform. A list of
ambiguous theses was proclaimed as patterns from which the Party
would mold its future program. Five hundred Party members out
of 1,l83 cardholders attended. Tokuda was elected General
Secretary and Chairman of the powerful Political Organization
Committee. Temporary leadership was vested in a seven man
Central Executive Committee which included both Tokuda and Shiga.
More permanent plans for leaderehip were delayed until NOSAKA
Sanz's return from China in January, 1946.
The Communists, since their reemergence as a postwar
political party, have tried repeatedly to establish a
popular or united front. Soon after Tokuda's and Shiga's
release from prison in October, they approached the Socialists
with a united front proposal. This overture was rejected
by
(1) SCAP's Summation of Non-Military Activities in Japan
and Korea, September-0ctober 1945, p. 38.
SECRET

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
SECKET
-7-
by the Socialists on the grounds that the two parties had
not been as yet firmly established. Following the Fourth
Generel Congress in December 1945 the Communist leaders
proposed again a united front with the Socialists, with
the emphasis on common action for the solution of the food
crisis. The Socialists rejected this proposal as well.
The Communists in January began setting the stage for
new popular front discussions, coincident with Nosaka's
return to Japan from China. In themeantime YAMAKAWA
Hitoshi, one of the founders of the Japan Communist Party
(masquarading today as an independent), promoted the Com-
munist goal by appealing to all "pro-democratic" parties,
trade unions, and other organizations to establish a broad
populer front that would limit its objectives to a small
number of basic demands agreed upon by the participating
groups.
Nosaka arrived in Tokyo a few days later. The press
heralded his arrival as presaging a new, and probably suc-
cessful, attempt to establish a popular front. On January
14 he and other Communist leaders issued a joint statement
which softened the Communist position on the controversial
question of abolishing the Emperor system and celled for the
speedy organization of a popular front on the basis of reach-
ing an agreement on programs advanced by "pro-democratic
groups". This more moderate Communist position on the
Emperor
SECnci

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
一8-
Emperor system was a bid to those groups who had disagreed
with the Communist opposition to the Emperor. However,
after a heated debate the Socialists decided finally that
the question of a popular front should be postponed.(2)
The Communists called another Congress at Tokyo in
late February 1946. The primary purpose of this meeting
was to enlarge the Central Executive Committee. Tokuda re-
tained his position of leadership by continuing to occupy
not only the position of General Secretary but, also, that
of Chief of the Organization Guidance Section, which has
jurisdiction over the activities of all party organizers
throughout Japan. Nosaka, however, was made a member of
the Party's two most powerful organs, the Political Bureau
and the Secretariat.
In its early stage of reorganization, the Japan Com-
munist Party made little progress. Nevertheless, by con-
stant speeches, publicity releases and newsworthy activities,
the Party kept itself foremost in the public eye. The press
was generally friendly because of the presence of many Com-
munists and sympathizers among the newspapermen, and because
the Communist leaders were colorful and exciting news sources.
The Communists also gained prestige by SCAp's order releasing
them from prison thus causing many Japanese to believe that the
Communists had the blessinge of the Occupation. All of this
stimulated public interest in Communism and Communist policies.
The first real test of the overt political strength of
the Communist Party came with the general election for the
(2) OIR Report No. 2530A, Janrp1949, p.132-141.
Lower
SECRET

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
一9一
Lower House of the Diet on April 10, 1946. As soon as the
date for the election was announced, the Communiets demanded
postponement of the election on the grounds that existing
circumstances would favor the supporters of the status quo,
and operate to the disadvantage "of genuine democratic forces".
Early in the campaign the Communists announced that their
principal planke were etabilization and promotion of the
livelihood of the people, punishment of war criminals,
abolition of the Emperor eystem and eeteblishment of a
people's republican government with a new "democratic"
conetitution.
In the nation's 53 election districts, the Party entered
143 candidates with as many as eeven in the Hokkaido First
Dietrict and the Nagano Prefectural Dietrict. In the
election itself the Communists polled nearly 2,000,000
votes and elected five candidates, NOSAKA Sanzo from the
Tokyo First District, TOKUDA Kyuicho from the Tokyo Second
District, SHIGA Yoshio from the Osaka First District, TAkAKURA
Teru from the Nagano Prefectural Dietrict and Miss KARASAWA
Toshiko from the Hokkaido First District. Through the dis-
qualification of a Liberal Party candidate in Kanagawa
Prefecture, NAKANISHI Inosuke, the first Communist runner-up
in the dietrict, won the seat, thereby giving the Party a
total of six representatives in the Lower House. The day
after the elections, the Communists demanded a new election
SECREI
on the

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
JECRET
-10-
on the grounds that administrative delinqueney had led
to incomplete registration and that examination of candi-
Four weeks after the elections, the Socialists, in an
attempt to bring about a more harmonious relationship be-
tween the left-wing and other factions within their Party,
reconsidered the united front proposals made by the Com-
munists in the previous January. The Socialists countered
with a proposal for organizing a democratic social move-
ment with the strength of each Party in the new organization
based on membership in the Diet. The Communists promptly
rejected this plan as it would give the Socialists, with
greater numbers in the Diet, the dominate position.
The second postwar general election for the Lower House
of the Diet was called in April of 1947, a year after the
first election. Communist campaign propaganda again stressed
the usual party line, but emphasized in particular the need
of higher property, war profits and income taxes, wage in-
creases, state control of banks and industries including
mining, electric power and transportation, increase of
prices to the farmers and the confiscation of farm land
owned by landlords and its redistribution to tenant farmers.
The Communists polled 1,002,884 votes and elected four of
its candidates. Nosaka and Tokuda were re-elected by
comfortable margins, but Shiga, Takakura and Nakanishi were
defeated
(3) ORI Report No. 2530A, January 1, 1949, p. 143-147.
SECRET

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
- 11 -
defeated. Shiga's defeat was a heavy blow to the Party as
he was one of the top leaders, ranking next to Nosaka and
Tokuda. However, the Communists elected HAYASHI Hyakuro
from Nagano Prefecture and KIMURA Sakae from Shimane Pre-
fecture.(4)
The following month, a national election was held for
the House of Councillors, the upper chamber of the National
Diet, composed of 250 members who are elected on a nation-
wide and prefectural. basis. The Communists ran 86 candidates
polling 610,498 or 3% of the vote on a national basis and
825,304 or 4% on a prefectural bas1s. Communist results
in this election roughly paralleled the situation exper-
ienced in the contest of seats of the House of Representa-
tives. Three Communists were elected on a national basis,
NAKANO Sh1geharu, NAKANISHI Ko, HOSOKAWA Karoku and one Com-
munist on a prefectural basis, ITAno Katsuji of Okayama
Prefecture.
The Communists entered candidates in many of the local
elections held in 1947. However, in the contests for
governors, mayors and for the prefectural assemblies only
three Communist candidates were elected - one each for the
Tokyo, Nagano and Mie prefectural assemblies. In the local
assemblies they succeeded in electing only 420 assemblymen
out of 173,989 seats.
After the elections the Communists, except to promote
local popular fronts, refrained from making further formal
overtures
(4) ORI Report No. 2530A, Jan. 1, 1949, p. 190-191.

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.97)
SFCRFT
OEERET
-12-
overtures to the Socialists until the following year in
March, 1948. At that time they proposed that the Communists
and Socialists coonerate in the election to be held in April
on such objectives as black market control, national control
of banks and industries, minimum wage, food and housing for
the unemployed, increase in the price of rice and greater
freedom for women. The Socialists rejected this proposal a
few days later. There were no further official attempts by
the J.C.P. to establish a popular front from the Spring of
1948 until the following December when many left-wing mem-
ber: of the Social Democrats bolted from the Party and
organized a Farmer-Labor Party under the leedership of
KURODA Hisao. The Comnunists and the newly formed Farmer-
Labor Party joined forces in the campaign for the general
election held January ?3, 1949.
The Communists had been disappointed in previous elections
in their feilure to win more seats in the Diet and they were
determined that more of their candidates would be successful
in the coming election. They started their campaign long
before any of the other Parties. They marshalled their
forces more effectively and demended from Party members
greeter efforts in promoting Communist candidates. Election
schools were established where leading J.C.P members, such
as Nosaka and Shiga, gave lecture: to the rank and file Party
workers on the best vote-getting techniques.
SECKET
In the

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
SECHET
- 13 -
In the previous electione, the J.C.P. had made the mistake
of running too many candidates in the election districts and,
as a result, the Communist vote was eplit. Consequently,
they were never able to elect more than eix members to the
Lower House of the Diet. In this campaign, they decided
to enter fewer candidates with the hope of concentrating
the Communist vote. They expended more money per vote than
any opposition party. It is reported J.C.P. raised a cam-
paign fund of 30,o00,000 yen largely through the sale of Sanotin
(a deworming medicine) and also through black market operations
particularly in saccharin and newsprint.
In addition to the usual Communist Party line, that is
primarily a bid for the labor and industrial vote, the J.C.P.
played up the corruption in the major political parties, citing
for example, the ecandal of the Showa Denko bribery case. The
Communists argued that, in contrast, they were the only "pure
incorruptible party". The J.C.P. bid for the farmers' vote
by attacking the Government's rice collection and flood control
program.
However, the most significant change in propaganda tactics
was the Communist appeal for the support of small and medium
class business by accusing the present government of a tax
program that drove such business firms into bankruptcy. The
Communists proceeded to eetablish tax consultant offices where
these businessmen could receive instructions on
SECRET
methods

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
-14-
methods that would reduce their taxes. In order to obtain
additional support from this class of business, the J.C.P.
even encouraged cooperation between labor and management.
Such actions indicate that the Communists are strengthening
their position by broacening their base of appeal: to obtain
the support of those groups which they would in the end de-
stroy, once control of the Government paseed into their hands.
The Communists made remerkeble geins in the election
held January 23, 1949. They received approximately 3,000,000
votes as compared with 1,000,000 received at the previous
election and seated 35 candidates in the House of Representa-
tives. This is an increase of almost 9o0% over their previous
number of only four members. The Communist gains were cen-
tere almost entirely in the industrial area. Tokyo for
example elected 7 candidates and Osaka 4. In the rural
sections, despite efforts to penetrate farm cooperatives
and farm unions, their candioates were less successful.
Communist gains in this lest election mey be attributed
to many factors. It is believed thst the most important of
these are: greater effort and money expended to secure J.C.P.
support; the concentration of votes on Communist candidates
resulting in a greater number receiving the recuired votes
for election; a less revolutionary program which afforded a
broader base of vote appeel; corruption in the Social
Democrats
SECREI

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
- 15 -
Democrats and Liberal Parties; revision of the National Publio
Service Law; and the enhanced preetige the Japan Communist
Party, derived from the Communist victories in China.
The Communists, strengthened by their success in the
election, proposed again to the Social Democrats a united front
under which the Communists would lead the radical movement in
Japan. Nosaka speaking for the Party issued a call for a united
front "based on the masses to fight the reactionary and conserva-
tive regime" of the Yoshida Government. He proposed such specifio
bases of agreement as opposition to the 48-hour week, discharge
of employees in over-manned government bureaus, and the food
collection program for the farmers, revision of the labor laws
and opposition to the measures the government had adopted to
carry out the nine-point directive of General MacArthur to
establish economic rehabilitation. It is believed that in the
immediate future there will be considerable Socialist collabora-
tion with the Communists on many of these issues.
It should be pointed out that the Communist strength in
the present House of Representatives is not dependent solely
on its own 35 Communist members. The seven votes of the Farmer-
Labor Group will, in all probability, support the Communists.
On many iseues, a varied proportion of left-wing Social Democrats
estimated as high as 50%, a scattering number of independents
SECRET

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
-16 -
independents may vote for Communist approved measures. It
is expected that the J.C.P. will vigorously continue their
efforts to unite the left-wing parties in Japan into a
politicelly powerful popular front under Communist domina-
tion.
Their real motive in attempting to establish a popular
front is to accelerate the repid infiltretion of Communists
into other left-wing parties, with the ultimete purpose of
domineting, and then finally liquidating all non-Communist
elements within the parties. The Communists believe that
the more conventional Social Democrats are torn by dissen-
tion and that their Party will disintegrate if the Socialists
can be induced into a political alliance. The Communists
believe if they can win a foothold within the Social
Democratic ranks, they could woo successfully the left-
wing socialists preparetory to eventual Communist control
of the Social Democretic Party.
SECRET

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
17
Japan Communist Party Schools(1)
The Japan Communist Party has established schools to indoo-
trinate Party workers in the various aspects of Communism; suoh as
the organization of revolutionary government, the necessity of
strict Party discipline, and methode for establishing Communist
cells within strategic Japanese groups such as youth, education and
labor.
The J.C.P. regards these Communist schools highly as they
have been so succeseful in training Party workers to promote
Communism in Japan. The most important Communist school is. the
Central Party School located at Tokyo. This was organized in
December 1945. It is headed by Nosaka, who has modelled 1t closely
after his Communist school in Yenan, China. At this school they
train full-time professional revolutionists in the principles of
Communist tactics in class strugglee. All of Japan's prefectures
are represented, with 25% of the total enrolled being women. Only
young, vigorous and potential leaders are chosen as students.
Before they are accepted, the students must be thoroughly screened
and passed by regional committees. Students live in dormitories,
and the Japan Communist Party pays all of their expenses while
they are in attendance.
The faculty includes such well-known Communist leaders
as Tokuda, Nosaka, Ito, Shiga, Nakamada, Miyamoto, Kamiyama.
Some of the subjects taught are Communist Economic Theory,
Party
(1) See Tokyo Despatch No. 514, July 22, 1946 and GHQ,
Far East Command, Civil Intelligence Section, Periodical
Summary No. 25, Feb. 15, 1948, Summation Section, p. 27-30.
SECRET

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
Party Orgenization and Discipline, Tactics and Strategy
of the Jepan Communist Party, Problems of a Democratic
Front, History of World Proletarian Movement, Marxist
Economics, Development of Japanese Capitalism, Development
of Socialism, Labor Struggles and Farm Movements. The more
important textbooks include Stalin's Fundamentals ofLenintom
and Marx's Dialectical Materialism. It is believed that by
the end of January 1948 they had 1,200 graduates.
The Japan Communist Party has also established in Tokyo
an "orgenizers school". This school wes created for the
purpose of training new executives for the Party. Students
that are accepted must heve unusual executive ability to
guarentee a strong leadership in the future.
There are a number of regional schools established by
the Party in different sections of Japan, where they teach
the stsnderc Communist subjects. A school has also been
organized for disgruntled Koreans. These Korean schools
have a lerge enrollment. In adoition to these specialized
and
schools, numerous Party sponsored labor-farmer schools have.
been established throughout Japan.
SECRET

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-19-
Communist Post-War Labor Activities(1)
The Japan Communist Party has placed its greatest emphasis
on the penetration of labor unions. It is advantageous for
them to control labor unions not only because of the large
numbers involved, but also because it is possible through
Communist controlled and coordinated strikes and other forms
of labor conflicts to aggravate conditions within the country
to the point where economic chaos will result in the overthrow
of the government.
Immediately upon their release from prison in October, 1945
Tokuda, Shiga and other Communists experienced in labor activities
laid plans for the infiltration by Communists into Japanese
labor unions that were being organized. The very newness of
the labor movement enabled the Communists to enter on the
ground floor during the critical formative stage of many labor
unions. Communists have been successful in dominating labor
unions because they were able to take advantage of this general
immaturity and inexperience of organized labor in Japan. The
prevailing tendency of the Japanese to follow the leader has
served the Communists well in the labor movement for they have
always been ready to provide the necessary leadership.
(2)
Communists have frequently provided the initiative in
organizing unions and in planning union activity for they are
experienced in such organizational activities. In addition,
many
(1) See Tokyo Despatch No. 630, Sept. 24, 1948 drafted,
by Charles N. Spinks, p. 25-30.
(2) Ibid., p. 25.
SECRET

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
SECRET
- 20 -
many Communists who have infiltrated the labor movements are
full time organizers whereas the non-Communist union men can
devote only a portion of their time to union activities. After
Nosaka's return to Japan in January, 1946, the Communists,
supported by left wing Socialiets, laid the ground work forthe
creation of a labor organization that would rival the more Con-
servative Sodomei (Japan Federation of Labor).
In August, 1946, the National Congress of Industrial Unions
(Sambetsu) was est blished. This labor federation, patterned
after the American CIO, includes major unions in almost all the
vital industrial fields, such as transportation, communications,
electric power, steel, coal, newspapers, radio, publishing and
printing. It has become the largest of the labor federations
with an alleged membership of 1,200,000 as contrasted with the
Socialist dominated Sodomei's claimed membership of over 1,l00,000.
While it is reliably estimated that not more than lO% of the
membership of the unions affiliated with the Sambetsu are party
members and sympathizers, the Sambetsu is overwhelmingly controlled
by Communists. It has been computed that 63% of the Central Exeou-
tive Committee, 91% of the Administrative Department Chiefs, 81%
of the Secretariat and 75% of the officials of the Sambetsu are
Communists. Kikunami, the Federation's first President, is a
Party member.(2)
(2) Central Intell1gence Agency, ORE 46-48, Sept. 28, 1948, p. 7,
Tokyo Despatch No. 630, Sept. 24, 194e drafted by Charles N.
Spinks, p. 26.
SECRET

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
- 21 -
The existing system for selecting officials in Japanese
labor unions permits a fanatical zealous minority to occupy
key positions and thus control the union. This syatem in the
Sambetsu works basically as follows: The goal of the Communist
labor leaders in the union's local chapters is to engineer the
local meeting so that Communists are selected for the union's
District Executive Committee. The Communist members of the
District Executive Committee arrange for Communists to be
elected as members of the Union'ε Prefectural Committee. The
Communists in the Prefectural Committee manipulate the election
so that Communists are elected as members of the Union's Regional
Executive Committee and the Regional Executive Committee Com-
munists in turn elects Communist members for the Union's Central
Executive Committee. A union's Communist dominated Central
Executive Committee then elects representatives from their
union to serve on the Sambetsu Central Executive Committee.
The Central Executive Committee of the Sambetsu then elects
the Chairman, two Vice-Chairmen and Secretary-General from
among its own members. Chiefs of the various Sambetsu adminis-
trative departments are appointed by the Secretary-General.
Other secretariat membere are elected by the Central Executive
Committee from among its own membere. Under this system a
Communist minority by clever manipulation can rally Communist
sympathizers and unsuspecting members into a bare majority on
a union's local chapter level that becomes eventually a near
unanimous
SECRET

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
- 22 -
unanimous Communist majority in the union's Central Executive
Committee. Thus, in order to maintain control of the Sambetsu
at a national level the Communists need only to secure a simple
majority on the Central Executive Committee, which will enable
them to elect as many of their own group as they desire as
officials and members of the Secretariat.
Of the unions affiliated with National Congress of Industrial
Unions, Sambetsu, the All Japan Electric Workers Union (Densan),
All Japan Communication Workers Union (Zontei) and the more
recently organized All Japan Metals Workers Union (Kinzoka) are
most heavily dominated by Communists. The action of seventeen
executive officials of the All Japan Coal Industry Union on
December 25, 1948 in Joining the Communist Party will give
increased Communist strength in that union. Communists have
also infiltrated to a coneiderable degree into such unaffiliated
unions as the National Council of Government Workers, the Japan
Teachers Union and the Government Railway Workers Union.
Sambetsu unione have incited all Communist inspired strikes.
Their first attempted display of strength in the labor field came
in September, 1946 and involved Government Railway Workers Union
and Seaman's Union. The tenor of the speeches made to the strikers
and the propaganda leaflets distributed streseed the necessity
for the "defeat of capitalism". Although the first effort failed
to achieve the goal set by the Communists, it stimulated Communist
efforts to initiate a nationwide general strike known as the
October
SECREF

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.98)
SLCRET
一23-
"October Offensive" through the Sambetsu afriliated unions.
Members of the All Japan Newspaper and Radio Workers Union,
All Japan Electric Power Workers Union, All Japan Coal Mining
Union and lesser unions including some members of the All
Japan Motion Picture and Theatrical Workers Union walked out.
Another general strike was scheduled for February 1, 1947
and was to 1nclude the Socialist dominated Japan Federation of
Labor (Sodomei) as well as the Sambetsu. However, the Sodome1
withdrew leaving the Communist dominated Sambetsu in complete
control. The strike was orgenized under Communist slogans and
political policies. Over two-thirds of the top general strike
leaders were members of the Japan Communist Party or sympathizers.
When SCAP prohibited the strike both the Sambetsu and the
Communists suffered a serious loss of prestige. Communist
leadership in the Sambetsu's Communication Workers Union
together with certain Government workers unions, called a
nation wide strike for March, 1948. This walkout was also
promptly prohibited by SCAP. SCAP's request in July for
revision of the National Public Service Law asking that Govern-
ment employees not be allowed to strike, immediately brought
vehement proteste from KIKUNAMI Katsumi, DOBASHI Kazuyosni and
KAN Mokoto, Communist officials of the Sambetsu.
Communist techniques for strikes had become so efficient
and had given them such a dangerous weapon that SCAp was of the
opinion that if the Communists directed strikes were left completely
SECREF
uncontrolled

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
- 24 -
uncontrolled they would seriously delay Japan's economio
rehabilitation.
The strike strategy of the Japan Communist Party brings
into play ell the overt and covert mechanisms of the Party's
organization. The order for a union strike originates with
the union's Central Executive Committee and sifts down to the
lowest union level. The first step is to establish "struggle
committees" by national, regional and prefectural executive
committeee of the union. Since each executive committee has
a powerful Communist fraction, the struggle committees in turn
have their Communist fractions.
The Japan Communist Party maintains liaison with Communist
fractions in the various committees on a horizontal basis. With
this arrangement, fractions in the Central Struggle Committee
and in the Central Executive Committee of each member union
receive their orders directly from the Central Committee of the
Japan Communist Party. Fractions in the regional struggle
committees and in the regional executive committees receive
their orders from the Regional Committees of the Japan Communist
Party, while fractions in the Prefectural Struggle Committees
and in the Prefectural Executive Committees receive their
orders from the Prefectural Committees, of the Party.
There are no struggle committees at the local union chapter
level. The workers in the local unions who carry out the strike
itself are influenced and controlled by the Local Committees of
the
SECRET

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
- 25 -
the Japan Communist Party dealing directly with Communist cells
and Shimpadan (εympathizer groups) in each chapter.
The Party will also throw into action its parallel support-
ing forces. On the overt side at all levels of action operate
the various propaganda agencies of the Party and the Young Com-
munist League such as the Party's press, the work of the Propa-
ganda and Education, and the Agitation and Propaganda Sections
in the farty'ε national, regional and prefectural headquarters
and the activities of Party members in the Diet and other spokes-
men and publiciets. At the same time, various Communist front
groups are called upon for supporting action. On the covert
side, parallel supporting action is undertaken by the various
espionage and black propaganda apparate, controlled by central
headquarters, but oyerating only at the prefectural, distriot
and local levels of action.
Strikes are not the only tools of the Communists that
undermine Japan's induetrial recovery. Working through fractions
or cells, Communist Party members within the key industrial
unions often are succeesful in initiating and encouraging wide-
spread sabotage in industry, such ae damaging tools and equip-
ment, inspiring work slowdowns, inciting unreet with the all
over purpoee of disrupting production. Such practices combined
with Communiet directed strikes retard the production of commodi-
ties essential for Japan's economic revival.(3)
(3) Tokyo Despatch No. 630, September 24, 194e drafted by Charles N.
Spinks, p. 25-28.
SECRET

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.98)
- 26 -
Youth Organizations(1)
The Young Communist League serves as a core of Communist
youth activities, not only in schools, but also in factories,
mines, labor unions and farm villages. Under the guidance of
the J.C.P., the members of the Young Communist League have
infiltrated and dominated most of the youth organizations in
Japan. Through an elaborate program of such "extra-curricular
activities" as contests, athletic events, lectures and cultural
programs, the youth of Japan are drawn into the Communist net.
The Young Communist League has served also as a connecting
link between the J.C.P. and the more violent youth assault groups,
the "Youth Action Corps" and the "Assault Corps". Recently,
however, the J.C.P. has incorporated these two groups into the
official framework. These organizations have been indefinite
groups that came into existence when the Communists felt the
need. They are composed of the more young and violent elements
of the Party who carry on the old Japanese tradition of "rule
by violence". Their primary purpose is to subdue by black-
mail and force out, all outspoken anti-Communiste. When their
strong arm methods bring the wrath of the Government, or
crystallize public anti-Communist preεsure, the groups
disappear into less innocuous parent organizations such as
the
(1) See GHQ, Far East Command, Civil Intelligence Section
Periodical Summary No. 27, April 15, 194e Summation Section
p. 3-14.
SECRET

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-27
the Young Communist League, or the youth groups of the various
unions. This occurred, for instance, following the failure of
the general strike in February 1947. When the hue and cry dies
down, theee youth action groups organize again. The Japan
Communist Party considers them of vital importance, for tradition-
ally, Communism comes to a country through force. Such terrorist
groups are legitimate weapons of Communists.(2)
The J.C.P. has organized the discontented Korean youth into
the Korean Democratic Youth, an effective agency for training young
Korean Communists as leaders in an "independent, democratic" Korea.
The youth organization is a part of the Korean League to which the
There have been eeveral attempts by Communiets to unify youth
groupe into a Iarge organization. In November, 1947 the Communist
dominated Association to Expedite the Organization of a Unified
Youth League (Tan Itsu Seinen Dome1 Ta1 Kessei Sokushin Ka1) met
1n Tokyo to outline organizational plans for the Japan Democratio
Youth League (Nippon Minshu Seinen Domei). An examination of the
list of some of the known promoters indicates the determination of
the Communists to penetrate labor union youth sections. KUMAGAYA
Jiro, a Party member and one of the central figures in organizing
this Youth League is popular with labor union youth sections.
Other J.C.P. members who were prominent in establishing
the Japan Democratic Youth League include
(2) GHQ, Far East Command, Civil Intelligence Section,
Periodical Summary, No. 25, February 15, 1945, p. 17.
(3) Ib1d., No. 27, Apr11 15, 1948.
SECRET

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
-28
IWASAWA Kohe1, Chief of the Government Railway Workers Union
Youth Section, OKUYAMA Masahiro, Chief of the Electrical Industry
Workers Union Youth Section and NISHIWAkI Ryuji, Chief of the
All Japan Communications Workers Union Youth Section.
Secretary General ONDA Hideichi of the Young Communist League
initiated the firet preliminary meeting of the Japan Youth Council
(Nippon Sienen Kyogika1) in Tokyo. The Young Communist League,
National Congress of Industrial Unions, Chubu Youths and Womens
Council and the Government Railway Workers Union sent delegates.
Later at a Youth Council's meeting in February, 1948 at Hibiya
Park, Tokyo, approximately 8oo young people representing the
Young Communist League, Korean Democratic Youth League, the
youth sections of the Government Railway Electric Industry and
Communications Workers Unions attended. Later they participated
in a parade, singing the "Internationale".
In April of 1S48 a Democratic Racial Front (Minshu Kenj1)
was proposed by the J.C.P. under the leadership of MIYAMOTo Kenj1,
Soviet fraction member of the Japan Communist Party's Supreme
Council. At a rally two weeke later sponsored by the National
Congress of Industrial Unions Youth Council 4,O00 young workers
and college students attended, representing the J.C.P., Young
Communist League, Korean Democratic League as well as the major
labor unions. A more recent attempt to merge the various youth
organizations was made January 13, 1949.
SCCDCL

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.95)
-29-
Postwar Communist Activities Among Farmers
The Communist Party has made little progress with its
efforts to win converts in rural Japan. Japanese farmers are
traditionally conservative and view with scepticism a program
that would affect their way of life. Moreover, postwar infla-
tionary prices have placed the farmer in a very advantageous
position economically as compared with the urban worker. The
high prices received for rice and other agricultural products
have enabled many to become free of debt, -- the burden that
oppressed the farmer so severely before the war. Far reaching
land reforms inaugurated by the occupation has also been an
important factor in blocking Communist penetration in rural
areas. These reforms, which give the tenant farmers tangible
advantages, such as purchaeing land at comparatively lcw prices
and with easy credit terms, have rectified many of their past
grievances, thereby depriving the Communists of much of their
appeal on this score.
Communist efforts to secure converts among the farmers has
been based largely on propaganda denouncing all Government policies
which concern agriculture. The Japan Communist Party presents
1tself as the only group that champions the interests of the
farmers. Through demonstrations, meetings, publications,
posters
SCDET
JLUHET

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
-30-
posters, and door to door canvassing, Party members denounce
the Government's food collection program as unjust. They
proclaim that the price set by the Government is unreasonably
low when compared with industrial producte, and that the quota
fixing the amount of food each farmer must turn in, is too high.
The Government's system of enforcing this food delivery program
by sending inspectors to the farms, a practice which 1s naturally
resented by the farmere, furnishes the Communists with additional
ammunition for their propaganda. The Communist Party marshals
every conceivable argument in an attempt to convince the farmers
that their taxes discriminate against them. The Government's
flood control program with respect to farm lands has also
received its share of denunciation by the Japan Communist Party.
Since the Communists advocate the confiscation of farm land
owned by absentee landlords and its division among tenant farmers,
the land reform program, which obviously has benefited particularly
the tenant farmer, is even denounced by the Communists as a
measure that requires the tenant to pay the landlord an exorbitant
price for his farmland.
As much of the farmers' opposition to the Government's
agricultural program is expressed through the Japan Farmers
Union, Communists have made every effort to infiltrate into
this organization. Using their labor union techniques, Communists
are gradually obtaining control of some of the key offices
within
SLCRET

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-31 -
within the Japan Farmers Union. Many white collar Party workers
with high school and even college education have joined the
Union and have hed some success in persuading farmers to support
the Japan Communist Party. MUIRA Raitara is perhaps the most
active Communist in this farm organization. He Joined soon
after the war as a Social Democrat and rose rapidly to leader-
ship. The recent formation of the Farmer-Labor Party by
Communist sympathizers and the electior of seven of their
candidates to the Diet may be a factor in aiding Communists to
penetrate more successfully the Japen Tarmers Union. KURODA
Hisao, organizer of the nev party, was formerly Chairman of
the Japan Farmers Union Executive Committee. Another indica-
tion of Communist gains with farmers is the election to the
Diet on January 23, 1o49 of six Communist candidates who have
Japan Farmers Union affiliations.(1)
(1) GHQ, Far East Command, Civil Intelligence Section,
Periodical Summary No. 35, Dec. 15, 1948, Special Article
Section pp. 5.
SECRET

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Postwer Communist Activities Among Japanese
Women (1)
The Japan Communist Party has capitalized on the postwar
emancipation of Japanese women. Of the 4,400,000 women wage
earners in Japan, approximately 1,470,000 are members of labor
unions. The efforts of the Communists to recruit feminine
support has been directed primarily to these women. Womens
departments of labor unions have been organized, as the
Japanese women were reluctant to participate on a basis of
equality with men in the labor unions. The Communist appeal
has stressed such issues as the feminine struggle against low
wages, a position classification system "disadvantageous to
Women" and similar controversial questions. Because of the
lack of political acumen of the average Japanese woman,
Communists in the women's divisions of the labor unions have
had little difficulty in infiltrating and controlling these
groups.
The Japan Communist Party has stepped up its "cultural"
activities in factories and workshops in an appeal to the less
radical elements among the Japanese women, and have promoted
such activities as hiking clubs, singing and dancing clases.
Pro-Communist movies and lectures ere proving effective. Entire
lecture courses are offered to womens study groups on such
sublects as "Soviet Women Vorkers and Huusewives", "Problems of
New Love end Marriage", and "Problems on the Liberation of
Women".
The
(1) See GHQ, Far East Command, Civil Intelligence Section,
Periodical Summary, No. 33, Oct. 15, 1948, pp.37-46.
SECRET

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
- 33 -
The typical Japanese housewife has little interest in
Communism. By her very nature she 1s conservative and retiring;
Communiem'e more violent theories of revolution alarm rather than
attract her. Traditionally, she is disinterested in politics and
uninformed on political questions. Even after being granted the
right of suffrage, she lacks political consciousness. Nosaka,
in particular, has dencunced the Party's past failure to win the
active support of the great massee of Japanese women in the home,
and has called for remedial measures. Nosaka's wife, NOSAkA Ryu,
Party Women's Chief, has inaugurated a new drive to win new
feminine converts, and to vitalize particularly the Party's appeal
to ncn-working women. Indicative of this is a guide issued to
Party members for increasing membership among the rank and file
of Japanese women. It is distributed by the Central Committee
of the Japan Communist Party. The guide urges that whenever a
man joine the Party, the Party worker should increase his efforts
to induce the whcle family to Join, as this is particularly important
in gaining women members.
The outstanding women in the community are new targets for
this renewed Communist drive as their membership would give
prestige to the Communist Party and influence other women to
join the ranks.
The Communiste are apoealing to women through educational
and cultural organizations. Consequently, Communist women
SECRET
organize

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
-34-
organize or dominate local art and literary societies, day
nureeries, sewing circles, food cooperatives, and study groups.
The Party's emphasis is on objectives that are close to the
average homemaker; an end to rationing, better child care, further
protestion of the rights of women, improved health and medical
facilitiee, and housing and clothing for var refugees and repatriates.
With these "homemakers" who comprise the bulk of Japanese
women, the JCF hat soft pedalled its revolutionary aspects. This
home type of a woman who Joins the Farty is asked to do little
real Party work, and is ascigned minor pleassnt tasks that will
not take her too long away from home duties. Communists know
this is necessary at the traditional Japanese husband resents
his wife's frequent abeence from home or her preoccupation with
outside activities. An exception, however, is found in the Tokyo
area where the wives of the prominent Communists, approximately
a hunared in number, have orgsnized and ere effestively promoting
Communism in this metropolitan Jistrict.
There are two womens organine tions on the netional level
that are dominated by Communiste, the Womens Demooratic Club
and the Democratic Womene Council.
The former group was organized
by three Japanese women MIYAMOTo Yuriko, a prominent Communist who
has lived in Soviet Russia; AKAMATsU Teuneko, left-wing member of
the Social Democratic Party; and KATo Shizue, who writes for
radical and Communist publications. Under the direotion and
scrutiny of such leeders the Club activities for members include
the
SECRET

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
- 35 -
the customary singing and dancing lessone, pro-Communist movies
and lecturee, etc. The Daily Life Section working in open
cooperation with the JCP prccoses "to educate women politically".
The Demosratic Womens Council was organized in the spring
of l947 under the direct sponsorship of the Women's Section of
the JOP. More than 5C% of the organization's Board of Directors
are reported to be Communists or Communist eympathizers. The
incrcasing power of this Counsil is revealed in the growing numbers
of womens organizations affiliated with it. These include such
repre:entative groups as, The Vomens Section of the JCP, the
Womens Demoeratic League and the Womens Sections of the Electric
Industries Workers, All Japan Coal Mine Union, National Council
of Chemical Workere Union and Private Railroad Workerb Union.
The Democratic Womens Council openly acknowledged at the pro-
Communist "Feace Day" meetings in Tokyo, August 15, 1948 1ts
connection with the world-wide Communist front organization,
the International Womers Demccratic League.
SECRLI

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-36-
Postwar Communist Actiyities In
The Press
(i)
Communist strength in the Japanese press was revealed
shortly after the surrender when SCAP required leading news-
papers to reorganize and nurge officials who supnorted the
military. It was at this time the All Japan Press and Radio
Workers Union was formed. In this reorganization of the news-
papers and the creation of the press union, Communists and
their sympathizers quickly seized key positions both in the
union and on the editorial staffs f the leading dailies.
Following the purge, KIKUNAMI Katsumi, Party member and
head of the Sembetsu became chief editor of the Asahi, Japan's
largest nevspaper. SUZUkI Tonim, now a recognized Party member,
became the chief editorial writer for the Yomiuri, one of Tokyo's
most influential papers. Suzuki, with the cooperation of the
Communists and their symnathizers who were employed on the
Yomiuri, requested the President, Shiroki, to resign on the
grounds he was "reactionary". When Shiroki refused, employees
seized the plant and would not give it up until Shiroki quit.
A Mr. Baba was appointed President, and as a result Suzuki was
placed in a more powerful position in determining the paper's
policy. In Auguet of 1946 Babe was forced to discharge Suzuki
because of his many inaccuracies and Communist distortions of
new. The Union, under Communist control would have attempted
to repeat the tactics used on Shiroki if SCAP had not intervened
by declaring that the newspaper owners and management had the
right to determine the paper's policy.
(1)
See Special Report submitted to GHQ, Far East Command,
Military Intelligence Section, July 16, 1948, entitled
SECRET

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
- 37-
SECRET
Communist domination even reached out to many of the
prefectural papers. The Editor-In-Chief of the influential
Hokkaido Shimbun was a Party member and ordered all assistant
editors to join the Party or
resign. Here SCAP intervened
again, this time upholding the right of assistant editors to
chose their own party allegiance. The paper however remained
under Communist influence.
The current paper shortage has been used by the Communists
to influence the press. 3y controlling the output of paper at
the mills through union activities and through holding a dominant
position in the powerful Publishers Association that rationed
newsprint, the Communists had virtually a stranglehold on many
Japanese publications. Unless a newspaper or magazine was
εympathetic to the Communists, the Association labelled it
"reactionary", "fascist" or "war criminal" and made it difficult
for the publication to obtain sufficient paper. In the meantime,
new magazines with Communist sympathies - and apparently with
plenty of paper - sprang into existence with amazing rapidity.
Eventually, SCaP deprived the Communists of this weapon of
control by placing paper rationing in more trustworthy hands.
However, the intervening period had permitted the Comnunists
to strengthen their position in the Japanese press.
Commurist and pro-Communist control of the press is of
great importance to the Japan Communist Party in winning mass
support, and it relatively successful as many Japanese do not
recognize
SECRET

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
- 38 -
recognize the covert Party propaganua. Newspaper stories are
given the Communist slant. Space is allotted to Communist con-
trolled public meetings. Views and pronouncements of Communist
leaders receive full play while εpeeches by non-Communiste and
meetingt of non-Communist organizations often receive little
or no space in the day'ε news.
In addition to dominating a considerable segment of Japan's
press, the Japan Communist Party publishes its own newspapers
and magazines. While circulation has been limited often by the
shortage of paper under the present rationing system and the
more irresponcible, violent diatribes that would have led to
Fopular unreet have been eliminated through censorship, the
spread of Communiem through the medium of Communist and pro-
Communiet publications is significant.
. The wide variety of
these publications appeal in one way or another to almost every
class and intellectual level in Japan, such as Communist intelli-
genteia, students, white collar workers, industrial workers,
laborers, farmers, youth and even children.
The official Communist newspaper The Red Flag, Akahata,
was revived in October l945 only a few days after the release
of the Communist political prisoners. It has a circulation that
exceede 100,000 and 1s distributed by 700 branch offices which
retain 80% of the total receipts received from the sale of the
newspaper. Communist leagues, cells and unions eubscribe to it
where copies are made available to large numbers of readers.
Feature
SECRET

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
- 39 -
Feature articles of this publication martial arguments for the
"converted". All news stories are, of course, distorted in order
to present the true Conmunist viewpoint.
The Vanguard, Zenkai, is the most important Communist maga-
zine. It apyeared firet in February 1946 as a bi-monthly but
soon lapsed into a monthly publication with a circulation of
approximately 21,000.
. The Vanguard is designed as a magazine
for Party members and presents the official Party viewpoint on
questions of the day. The Peoplee Club, Taishu Kurabu , magazine
is publiehed by the Japan Communist Party as a popular magazine
for the working people. The early issues appealed primarily to
Communiets and pro-Communists, but it has been revised and now
holds a more wide and popular appeal through reviews of motion
pictures, playe and books. The Communiet viewpoint, however,
remains. The Flag of Youth, Seinen no hata, is a weekly two
page newspaper with an estimated circulation of 140,000. Its
Communist propaganda is aimed at students, youth groups and
youth departments of labor unions.
Three other less important official magazines of the Party
are the New World, Atarashi Sekai, Science and Techniques, Kegaku
To Gijutsu and Investigation Reports, Chosa Jiho. These magazines
have shifted emphasis frequently and have appeared irregularly.
Science and Techniques began as a farmerst magazine with pictures,
cartoons and eimple stories, but evolved into a comparatively
technical science publication.
In
SECRET

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
In addition to their own publicatiore, the Japan Communist
Party receives support from other publications. The most important
pro-Communist newspaper in this category is the New Tokyo, Sin
Tokyo. It'ε policy is covert rather than open propaganda.
The
occupation regarus this paper as one of the most insidious
Journale in Japen.
Another pro-Communist newspaper is Labor Front,
Fodo Sinsan, the official organ of the Communist dominated National
Congress of Industrial Unions, Sambetsu. As is to be expected,
the paper is filled with "strurgles" of the massee againat capital-
ism. It has a reported circulation of 70,000.
There are three pro-Communist children': magazines, the
Childrene Playground, the Childrens Flag and the Childrens village.
These three periodicals have a combined circulation of 86,oo0 and
are designed to instill in young, imprereionable minds a belief
in "class struggle" and the superiority of Soviet Marxism. Other
magazines with Communist sympathies are Truth, Shinso, Democratic
Review, Minshu Hyoron, Friend of the Maseee, Minshu no Tomo,
Social Review, Shukai Hyoron and Soviet Culture, Soviet Bunka
which describes the "wonderful life in the Soviet Union".
In aduition to these Communist and pro-Communist publications
innumerable broad sheets or wall newspapere are published locally
by Communist cells, Young Communist Leagues and Communists within
the unions. Often this type of propaganda is badly printed on
low quality black market paper, but nevertheless is often effective
because it attacks immediately local issues.
The
SECRLI

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.95)
The Japanese Communists are using more and more the quickly
printed and easily understood posters and handbills. Their
inflammatory messages often eecape Government censorship because
of the rapidity with which they can be printed and distributed
and the subsequent difficulty of authorities to trace the source
and secure the necessary evidence of violating press code.
In 194e the All Japan Prees and Radio Workers Union separated
and formed the All Japan Newepaper Union and the All Japan Radio
Workers Union. Communists and their sympathizers continue to
hold many of the key yositions in both unions.
SFCRET
OLUREF

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Postwar Communist Activities In
The Theater
The Communists are using successfully the Japanese love
of the theater to promote their propaganda. Their use of the
theater as a sounding-board for pronaganda is well-planned and
well-organized under the experienced leadership of HIJIKATA
Yoshi, who is a well known theatrical director and producer in
Japan and who was associated also with the Moscow Art Theater.
Starting at grass-root levels, the Communists have organized
their own amateur troups in labor unions and student groups,
and have fostered new professional troupe with nuclei of Commu-
nist producers end ectors. They have extended their influence
by sponsoring theatrical associations, dominated by Party members
and sympathizers, which bring even non-Communist troups under
their control. Also, the Communists maintain a corps of able
writers who turn out plays flavored with Communist propaganda.
These are made available both to Communist and non-Communist
troups.
Recent Communist tactics have emphasized "cultural revolu-
tions" by penetrating an intricate maze of cultural leagues,
societies and associations which ostensibly have no relation-
ship. However, nearly identicel groups of Communists serve as
executive or governing boards of the numerous organizations.
An
(1) See GHQ, Far East Command, Civil Intelligence Section,
Periodical Summary No. 27, April 15, 1948, Summation Section,
pp. 27-30.
SECRET

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.99)
An outstanding example of this type of organization is the
Japan Democratic Culture League, Nippon Menshushigi Bunba Renmei,
commonly known as Bunren. Although it has non-Communist members,
it is dominated by Communists in the Theatrical Division of Bunren,
the New Theater Pecples Association which was organized in April,
1946 by two well-known Communiste, MURAYAMA Tomiyoshi and HiJikata.
The growth of this New Theater Peoples Association has been
phenomenal. It now has representatives, members and organizers
ir all sections of the country, who are actively engaged in pro-
moting amateur groups, study groups and discussion circles in
unions, factories, schools and comrunities. Its sphere has been
widened to include theatrical literature, music and art. Clubs
have been organized for professional producers, playwrights and
actors and plans are under way to form a national theater. No
phate even remotely connected with the theater has been neglected.
The activities of the New Theater Peoples Aseociation are
varied and have a strong appeal. Printed scripts of plays, Com-
munist flavored, arc dietributed to amateur and profeesional groups
as "recommended by the Japan Demooratic Culture League". They
urge all amateur roups, that are already established, to Join
the New Theater Peoples Association. In return for a nominal
fee, these groups receive play-script service, counsel from the
Association's staff of directors and playwrights, assistance in
arranging
SECRET

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
44-
arranging bookings, the right to participate in the educational
activities of the Asecciation and a subscription to the magazine
Theater. It is evident that to a struggling amateur group who
are without guidance these are very concrete advantages.
Actually the New Theater Peoples Association has devoted
great effort to what it terms the "independent theater", - that
is the tmaller amateur groups, which in Japan heve always been
popular. Under its guidance, an independent theatrical council
has been formed whose governing council is composed of representa-
tives from such typical groups as the all Japan Student Theatrical
Federation, Young Mens Theatrical Federation at Tokyo, and the
Independent Theatrical Council. The mother organization aids
these "independent groups" in its usual manner by offering plays
for performance, advising such groups and training leaders.
The second important offehoot of emateur troupes is the so-
called independent troupe, Jiritsu Gikidan.
These are amateur
troupes in the labor unions of the National Congress of Industrial
Unions. They are openly Communistic with an avowed purpose of
"injecting labor consciousness into our labor colleagues".
Another recent subsidiary organization of the New Theater
Peoples Association iε the Travelling Performances Association,
Ido Koen Kyogikai, organized under the Communist theatrical
triumvirate, Hijikata, Murayama and Senda. Its purpose ie to
provide communities, factories, mines and schools with professional
troupes
SECRET

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
-45-
troupes performing plays "suitable to a democratio Japan". In
addition, it will supply stage property, make arrangements for the
rental of theaters at lower rates, advertiie the troupe schedules,
obtain performance permits and provide suitable plays -- very
tangible a:sistance to any professional group.
Even children are not neglected. A Juvenile Democracy Club,
Ehonen Engeki Karuba was formed in February, 1948, by the New
Theater Peoples Association. HIJIKATA Yohei, son of HIJIKATA
Yoshi ie the leading figure in the group. His first production
was "Whose Bread Is Iti", a play that was first submitted for
censorehip by the Japan Communist Puty Cultural Department.
Their plays are presented to children from the third to sixth grades.
Except for playe performed by amateur groups of the labor
unione, few of the plays sponsored by the New Theater Peoples
Association are cpenly Communistic. Father, the Communist propa-
ganda is more εubtly injected. A very popular play called Setting
Sun chooses the device of a returned soldier meeting in his travels
in Japan many who talk to him about the advantages of Communism.
In another popular play, The Laborer's Children, the son of the
labor leader discusses the similarity between labor's goal and
Communist principles.
Control by occupation authorities of Communist propaganda
through the theater ie difficult. Plays to be preeented must pass
censorship, but plays which often seem quite innocuous in script
can acquire a different aepect when performed. The manner in which
the
SECHLI

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
-46-
the play 1s presented can determine audience influence. The
Communiet directore have proven very skillful on this score.
Often, too, additional lines are inserted unknown to the censor.
Japanese players keep their repertoire and schedule flexible.
The group often decides one day what play to give and where to
perform it the next day, making them elusive to check and super-
vise. Many of the amateur groups, especially in areas where
they feel comparatively safe from supervision, do not even
bother to have their forthcoming productions submitted to
censorship. This elusiveness of the theater to censorship
control enhances its value to the Communists as media of
propaganda.
SECRET

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
-47-
Postwar Communist Activitiee in Education
Next to labor, Communism has perhaps made its greatest
gains in Japanese education. Communist activities are aimed
chiefly at building the Party's covert subversive potential,
through the infiltration of student groups and organizations,
to dominate not by sheer numbers but by sunerior organization,
propaganda and tactics.
It is estimated that 8% of the teachers in the Japanese
middle schools are Communists or Communist eympathizers, 13%
in the colleges, and 37% in the universities. (1)
The activi-
ties of these Communist end pro-Communist teachers center about
two main objectives. Their first objective is control of the
vitally imnortent Jepan Teachers Union with its 400,O00 members.
It is believed that most of the units of the Union at the local
level ere now in the gric of Communists and Communist sympa-
thizers. At their national convention held at Kanazawa in May,
1948 the Communist members domineted the discussions. The
majority of the floor decisions and resolutions, that were
passed, hewed close to the Party line and were regarded as
Communist victories. The Communists at the convention passed
out circulars, posters and pamphlets in & zealous campaign for
new converts. Following the convention, the Communist teachers
attended a meeting of the Jepan Communist Party.
Many teachers end professors in Japan todey are pre-
disposed to Communism. Traditionally, Jepanese education
has stressed heavily the teachings of Germen economists
and
(1) GHQ, Far East Command, Civil Intelligence Section,
Periodical Summary, No. 32 Sept. 15, 1948, Special
SECRET
Article Section pp. 26.

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.98)
SLCRET
- 48 -
and philosophers rather than outstanding democratic thinkers
of America and England.
Moreover, many students of the univer
sities between World War I and the resurgence of nationalism
in Japan in l93l were etrongly influenced by the popular tide
of Communism thet swept through the higher Japanese educational
institutions during those years. Most of these students are
today's pro-Communist teachers.
Economic and financial difficulties of the teachers
in the postwar era provide a fertile ground for well conceived
Communist propaganda. Teachers salaries in Japan are inadequate
to meet the cost of living during this inflationary period. The
Communists busily stir the pot of discontent, and if they fail
to point out how Communism, if in control, would remedy the situa-
tion, thcy drive home with full force the failure of the Japanese
Government under the occupation to provide adequately for the
nation's teachers.
Communist teachers promote Communism openly in the
classroom. It is estimated that in six out of the ten
leading universities, the majority of the economic professors
are Communists. Following Japan's surrender many of them
were liberated from prison and had their teaching positions
restored. To these the "halo of martyrdom" is attached and
their pretige and influence enhanced to uncritical student
minds. Aiding Communiet teachere is a prevalent belief among
Japanese students that not to be pro-Communist is to be ipso
facto, reactionary, militaristic or fascist.
SECRET
The diecarding

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-49 -
The discarding of the political theory of the divine Tenno,
with its semi-political mythology, has left in the minds of many
Japanese students a kind of political vacuum. The Japanese political
mind has not been educated to think with precise clarity but
rather to accept without question visionary soncepts of political
and social philosophy. Minds that have accepted such extreme
nationalism often prove easy prey to those seeking to impose a
doctrine leading again to regimentation under the philosophy of
an extreme left.
There is also a lack of outstanding economic and social
science teachere in Japan who have a clear understanding of, and
a firm faith in, western democracy. This, combined with the fact
that English translations of important books in these fields are
relatively difficult to obtain, provide weak opposition to the
growing influence of Communism in education.
Many Communist profeseors ere active leaders in Com-
munist and Communist front organizations on the campuses.
Some
organize "reading", "cultural" or "social studies" groups that
meet at the teacher's home under his leadership. Whatever the
guiee, their activity is essentially a study of Communist ideology.
A typical example is a club establiεhed by two Communist teachers
at Myozai Girls High School in Takushima Prefecture. The present
membership is 100 students. Theoretically, the group is & "reading
society" but the entire time is spent studying Marxiem.
The Communists
SECRET

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.99)
SLCRET
50
The Communists have always been aware of the 1mportance
of training future leaders by converting students to Com-
munisn. They iumediately recognized the advantages of the
Government ruling of February 1946 which permitted the
formation of politicel groups in Japanese schools. This
ruling found "no objections in principle to participation
of faculty and students in political campaigns". The major
political parties, however, made little effort to obtain
the stuient vote. The Japan Communist Party, therefore, has
been able to carry on its activities with little competition.
Open Communist activities in the schools have centered
primarily about the formation of Communist cells and the wide-
spread organization and promotion of the Young Communist
Leagues. Party cells ere composed of closely controlled
students and teachers who ere members of the Party. Their
first objective has been to infiltrate the student self-
governing organizations and other student groups, to gain
eventual control. Formerly, the majority of the student
cells were organized in colleg-s and universities, but a
more recent trend emphasizes the senior high schools as
well.
While active cells have been particularly successful
in Tokyo University and Osaka University of Commerce, the
overall growth has not met the expectations of the J.C.P.
At a recent meeting of the Party's Central Executive
Committee
SECRET

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
51
一
●
Committee, it was decided that it must provide more direct
supervision and guidance to student cells in the hope of
making more rapiā gains.
In the meantime, however, the Communists have promoted
successfully the Young Communist League. Membership 1s not
limited to Communists alone, but all "left-wing" revolutionary
end social minded students are urged to join, efter which
they are subjected to Communist indoctrination. It is be-
lieved the menbers of the Young Communist League in March,
1948 was 100,000 es the Jepen Communist Party directed the
League to treble its membership so that 300,000 members
could participate in the Mey Day demonstrations. The Young
Communist League has appealed more successfully to the Japanese
youth than the Japen Communist Party. The aime of the
League in educetional circles center about the problems
of the student group. The League cleverly uses all ques-
tions of vital student issues as fuel or ammunition for
their "pro-Communist aims and struggles".
Pressure movements and strikes have always been well-
worn student weapons in Japan, but under the promotion of
the Young Communist League they achieved even greater
effectiveness. The League has seized upon such issues
as "anti-tuition raise struggle", "anti-oppression and
livelihood struggle", and the alleged "control of education
by fascists".
Under their interpretation, any professor not a Communist
is ipso facto a "fascist or militarist". Student pressure of
SECREI
Communist

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
一
52
Communist inspiration is directed against those teachers in
Communist disfavor and often a movement is started to have a
teacher discharged, An exemple of the success of this technique
wes the postwar purge of 25 professors from Osaka University
of Commerce because of the demands of Communist and pro-Commu-
nist students who accused these professors of being "anti-
democratic".
A survey made by the GH& Military Intelligence Section
of the political affiliations of students in the Osaka-Kyoto
area reveale the following startling percentages of Party
members and possible Commurist sympathizers:
Osaka University of Commerce
91 %
Kyoto University
20名
Doshisha University
78 %
Kobe University of Commerce
48 %
Kansai University
75 %
Ritsumeikan University
42 %
Osaks University
30 %
Ryukoku Uriversity
25 % (2)
The percentages for Tokyo University and Hokkaido University,
both considered heavily pro-Communist, are not available.
In 1949, the Japanese Government, alsrmed et the growing
power of the Communists in education, rescinded its earlier
permission to organize political parties and ordered student
political groups banned. This action eliminated the oppor-
tunity for the moderate political parties to form student
organizations.
(2) GHQ, Far East Command, Civil Intelligence Section,
Periodical Summery No. 27, April 15, 1948, Summation Section,
pp. 11.

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
- 53 -
organizations. The Communists, however, with their train-
ing and experience, merely went underground.
Communist front organizations have been an important
part of Communist technique. By controlling student groups
that are theoretically non-political, the Communists increase
their power out of proportion to their numerical strength.
Many "front" student organizations are tools of the Com-
munists. The National Student Self-Governing Federation
and the Social Science Research Society are the two most
important. A national convention of the National Federation
of Self-Government Societies of all Government and Public
Universities and Colleges was held in June 1948 with 130
schools represented. At this meeting, it was revealed that
a goal of the Federetion is the spread of Marxism among
students. Student strikes have been initiated by the
National Student Self-Governing Federation against so-called
"enti-democratic teachers", raises in tuition, so-called
"fascist control of education" through the appointment of
school officials, who in their opinion represented "moneyed
interests", and ageinst authority in general. The Communist-
inspired-strikes have frequently attacked the system of
examinations. Their aim is to break down recognized autho-
rity and bring on chaos.
The Japan Communist Party recently launched a drive to
establish the Student Federetion in privete schools. The
Akahata, the official newspaper of the Party, reported that
in July 1948,

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-54-
in July 1948, representatives from 52 private schools in Japan
met to form the National Private School Self-Government Federa-
tion as a corollary to the National Student Self-Government
Federation. These self-government organizations are the vehicles
chosen by the J.C.P. to provide ultimately a united student front,
to serve as a tool for the Party.
The second major front organization for student Communists
is the Social Science Pesearch Society. The Society was organized
originally "to study political and social conditions" but it was
soon infiltrated by Communists and it is now under the complete
domination of the Japan Communist Party. It provides the Communists
a means of enticing within their graep etudents who hesitate
Joining either the Communist Party or the Young Communist League.
Once in the net and subjected to Communist propaganda and tech-
niques, many non-Communist members rapidly become sympathizers
or converts.
Another student front orgenization recently formed under
the auspices of the Young Communist League and the J.C.P. 1s
the Democratic Students League with an announced goal of one
million members by the end of 1949. There are many other
Communist front organizations operating in Japanese schools
such as the Society to Study Social Culture, the Students
Cultural Council, New Peoples Society. An example of
Communist controlled student organizations in Tokyo
University
SECRET

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.98)
University alone are: Social Science Research Society, Soviet
Research Society, Reseerch Society on Materielism, Chinese
Reseerch Society, Students League on Socialism, Social
Medical Research, Research Society on Law, Research Society
on History, Research Society on Marxism and Leninism,
Oretoricsl Society, Reading enc Culture Research Society,
Free Movie Research Society, Contemporary Literature
Research Society, Research Society on Modern History, and
Puppet Show Reseerch Society.
The Communist appeal to youth is strong. This is
particularly true of malcontents. Those postwar problems
of Jepan such as inedequate clothing, food and the privations
of inflation are found in Japanese schools. Students dis-
satisfied with their present economic lot are more willing
to acceot false utopiss.
The cost of seniing students to the university has be-
come prohibitive to the majority of Japanese middle class
families from which were derived the bulk of Japanese stu-
dents in pre-war Jepan. Nor are there the usual proportion
of sons from those families of high intellectual calibre
that provided active leadership in the war. With many of
the heads of these femilies purged end deprived of normal
channels of employment, the sons, even though endowed with
the mental capacity of leadership, are left without the
necessary financial aid of their femily and are unable,
therefore,
SLCRET

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.99)
SEGRET
56
therefore, to attend universities and be trained for
future political leadership.
As a result of this situation, the majority of uni-
versity students come from families of the newly rich who
primarily heve achieved this cuestionable mark of distinc-
tion as black marketeers. Profitable as this occupation
may be, it does not promote within the family those moral
oualities which are accepted as the foundation of leader-
ship. In fact, the typicsl sons of such families have
proven on the whole to be either unwilling or unable to
assume student leadership within the universities. There
is also a smaller group of University students who receive
only partial support from their families and who are turn-
ing more end more to black merket operetions. This condi-
tion leaves the students little time and inclination for
active leadership at the university. The Communists have
taken edvantage of this peculier situation. Communist or-
ganizations are subsidizing students. These students,
politically trained and indoctrinated, and without finan-
cial worries, have assumed much of the active leadership
in the universities. Some Communist student workers merely
register. They do not even attend classes. But they devote
their full time to sgitation and promotion of Communist
activities and propaganda on the campuses.
The Communists have also increased their following by
convincing
SECRET

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET
dE6HE
-57 -
convincing many students that in event of war between the
United States and the Soviet Union, America will be forced
to withdraw from Japan and that the students should "insure
their future" by becoming Communists, thus guaranteeing
their leadership in the "new social order".
This fear of the future ana the defeatism of the stu-
Gents in Japan ere porerful allies of Communism. The faith
of the younger ideelistic Japanese in the present new Japan
is wesk &nd uncertein. Professional Communist leaders will
seldom find a group more ready to be converted to their
false coctrines than Japan's postwer impressionable stu-
dents, uniraineu in precise logic, wesk in leadership, lack-
ing in moral calibre, undermined by physical privation,
discouraged and disillusioned.
SLCRET

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
- 58 -
Conclusion
Communist success in postwar Japan ueually is attributed
to a combination of chaotic economic conditions and politioal
turmoil,skillfully utilized by Communist propagandists. However,
the appeal of Communism to the Japanese possibly is more basic
than many Westerners realize.
The Japanese are not an individualistic people, but on the
a
contrary are communal people. Moreover, the Japanese are a
communal people accustomed to forfeiting individual liberty
upon the demand of the state. The unimportance and "unworthiness
of self" as compared to the family, the community or the state
is a fundamental tenet of Japanese philosophy.
The Communist idea of strife, struggle and conspiracy
appeals to the mentality of the fanatical Japanese. Prewar
Japan had its maze of secret underground political terroristic
societiee. From feudal days the Japanese have inherited a
philosophy of violence -- that it was right to defy the law,
lwere
to use violence as a means to an end "if the cauee wa worthy".
The murders of industrialists and statesmen in prewar Japan,
the intimidation and blackmail of others by organized gangs
of "patriotic ronin" and the Young Officers Revolution of
February 1936 are mute testimony to this lawless fanaticism that
accepts underground activities, violence and even revolution as
legitimate weapons to gain their objectives.
Strange
SFCRET
OLUHET

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
- 59 -
Strange as it may seem, the Japanese mind has been condi-
tioned even to much of the economic philosophy of Communism by
the pre-war propaganda of the militarists. By poster, pamphlets,
lectures and meetings a large and influential part of the Japan-
ese Army attacked "monopoly capitalism", concentration of wealth
and the power of industry. At the same time they championed the
undercrivileged, advocating industrial and agrarian reforms.
They aroused in the masses of the Japanese people a new social
end economic consciousness that provided attitudes sympathetic
to Communist doctrines.
But while the Army prop&ganda expounded semi-Communist
philosophy, at the same time it portrayed the Soviet Union as
Japan's great enemy. If the Japan Communist Party succeeds in
its efforts to divorce Japanese Communism from the Soviet Union
in the popular mind, as the Chinese Communist Party has so long
and so successfully denied its Russian inspiration and control,
it might reasonably be expected that the average Japanese who
has long feared and distrusted Russia will accept Communist doct-
rines more readily.
It is believed that the future of Communism in Japan will
be influenced to an extent by her relationships with China.
Communist growth in Japan may receive sharp impetus from the
victories and enhanced prestige of the Communists in China.
Because of Japan's long historical ties to China and her
geographical
SECRET

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
一60 -
geographical proximity to the Asiatic mainland, the Japanese
are seneitive to impulses from the Continent. Moreover, the
need of reestablishing eventually her trade relations with
Asia - now so largely Communist - may induce Japan to make
the necessary political and economic accomodations with these
Communist dominated areas.
SECRET

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
SECRET
- 61 -
LEFTIST ORGANIZATIONS IN JAPAN(1)
Key to extent of Communist influence
A - Completely controlled by Japan Communist Party
B - Communist front organization, under Communist control
C - Under Communist control but with opposition present
D - Strongly influenced but not controlled by Communists
E - Slight to moderate Communist influence
EXTENT OF
NAME
JCP INFLUENCE
All Communications Workers' Union
A
All Government Office Workers' Union
D
All Japan Automobile Industry Workers' Union
D
All Japan Autonomous Government Workers' Union
C
All Japan Chemical Industry Workers Union
C
All Japan Coal Industry Workers' Union
A
All Japan Electrical Manufacturing Workers' Union
C
All Japan Electric Industry Workers' Union
C
All Japan Electric Wire Industry Workers' Union
D
All Japan Express Company Workers' Union
D
All Japan Finance Workers' Union
C
All Japan Foodstuff Industry Workers' Union
C
All Japan Harbor Workers' Union
D
All Japan Liaison Council of Labor Unions
A
All Japan Life Insurance Workers' Union
D
All Japan Lumber Workers' Union
C
All Japan Medical Treatment Workers' Union
C
All Japan Metal Industry Workers' Union
ACC
All Japan Motion Picture and Theatrical Workers' Union
All Japan Occupation Forces' Workers' Union
All Japan Printing and Publishing Workers' Union
All Japan Seamen's Union
D
All Japan Shipbuilding Workers' Union
D
All Japan Student Theatrical Federation
B
Association for Students of Soviet Culture
B
China Research Institute
B
Chinese Communist Area Repatriates' Society
B
Contemporary Literature Research Society
B
Council of Educational Democratization
B
Cultural Federation of Korean Residents in Japan
B
Dawn Printing Company
B
Democratic Nurture League
D
Democratic Nutrition Association
D
Democratic Paper-Play Group
D
(1) GHQ, Far East Command, Civil Intelligencc Section, Periodical
Summary No. 34, November 15, 1949, Append1x p. 1-9.
SECRÉT

=== Page 133 === (confidence 1.00)
SEGRET
- 62 -
Democratic Protection League
B
Democratic Racial Front
B
Democratic Scientists' Association
B
Democratic Students League
B
Democratic Womens Society
B
Democratic Youth Congress
B
Education Defense Union
B
Education Democratization Council
B
Education Protection League
B
Emancipation Movement Relief Society
D
Farm-Labor Movement Relief Society
B
Farm-Labor Reporters' Society
D
Federation of Korean Labor Unions in Japan
B
Federation of Private Railway Workers' Unions
C
Federation of Social Sciences Research Societies
B
Federation of Student Soviet Research Circles
B
Federation of Tokyo Metropolitan Workers' Unions
D
Finance Ministry Three Operating Bureaus Workers! Union
D
Free Lawyers Group
B
Government Railways Workers' Union
D
Historical Research Society
B
Independent Dramatic Troupes Council
D
Independent Theatrical Council
B
International Politics Research Society
D
Japan Anarchist League
E
Japan Coal Miners' Union
E
Japan Cultural Cooperative Union
D
Japan Demobilized Comrades Association
D
Japan Democratic Culture League
B
Japan Democratic Education Association
B
Japan Democratic Women's Council
B
Japan Democratic Youth League
B
Japan Esperanto Study Society
D
Japan Farmers' Union
C
Japan Fine Arts Society
B
Japan Journaliste' League
B
Japan Juvenile Art Society
D
Japan Modern Mudc Society
B
Japan Organ Publications Association
D
Japan Political Economy Research Institute
E
Japan Roman Letters Society
E
Japan-Soviet Cultural Relations Association
B
Japan Teachers' Union
E
Japan Youth Communist League
A
Japan Youth Council
B
Juvenile Democracy Club
B
Juvenile Literature Writers' Association
B
"Kana" Script Society
E
SECRET

=== Page 134 === (confidence 1.00)
SECRET
-63 -
Korean Cooperative Union
D
Korean Democratic Women's League
B
Korean Democratic Youth League
B
Korean Economics Research Institute
B
Korean Federation of Industrial Unions
B
Korean Industrial and Economic Institute
B
Korean League
B
Korean Literature Association
D
Korean Students' League in Japan
B
Korean Technical Science Association
D
Labor-Farmer Liaison Council
B
League of Korean Merchants in Japan
B
League of Koreans Residing in Japan
B
League of Korean Students in Japan
B
League of Korean War Victims in Japan
D
Liaison Council of All Government and Public Workers' Union C
Liaison Society for Russo-Japanese Culture
B
Liberal Discuseion Society
D
Liberal Lawyers' Group
B
Liberal Movie People's Group
B
Livelihood Cooperative Union
B
Livelihood Protection League
B
Marx-Lenin Research Institute
A
Materialism Research Institute
D
Medical Science Research Society
B
Nara Prefectural League of Insurance Doctors
B
National Congress of Industrial Unions
A
National Council of Cement Industry Workers
D
National Council of Democratization of Medical Treatment
B
National Council of Korean Labor Unions
B
National Educators' League of Koreans in Japan
B
National Federation of Fepatriates' Organizations
E
National League of Ammonium Sulfate Industry Workers' Union D
National Repatriates League
E
National Student Self-Government Federation
B
New "Haiku" Poets League
B
New Japan Doctors' League
D
New Japan Literature Society
B
New Japan Poets' Association
B
New Literary Society
B
New Musicians' Group
B
New Peoples Society
B
New Theatrical People's Association
B
SECRET

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-64 -
Northern Friends' Society
BBEBEDBB
Northern Star Commercial Company
Okinawan League
Osaka Fine Arts Theater
Pacific Problems Research Society
People's Emancipation League
Puku Puppet Show Troupe
Reading and Culture Research Society
Research Society on Law
B
Research Society on Marxism and Leninism
B
Research Society on Modern History
B
Round Table Council of Medical Treatment
B
Russian Culture Reeearch Society
B
Russian Literature Union
B
Shinkyo Dramatic Troupe
D
Sino-Japanese Cultural Research Institute
B
Social Science Research Society
B
Society for the Admiration of Soviet Culture
B
Society to Protect Japanese Culture
B
Society to Study Social Culture
B
Soviet Area Repatriates Livelihood Protection League
B
Soviet Culture Admirers' Club
B
Soviet Culture Association
B
Soviet Researchers' Association
B
Soviet Study Association
B
Stage Arts Institute
D
Students Cultural Council
B
Students League on Socialism
B
Travelling Performance Association
B
Unemployed League
D
Unified Youth League
B
Vanguard Art Society
D
Water-Level Society
C
Women's Democratic Club
D
Women's Emancipation Society
B
World Economy Research Institute
B
Young Mens Cultural Council
B
Young Mens Theatrical Federation
B
Youth and Women's Construction Corps
A
SECRET
SEUHLT

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-65 -
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Despatohes and Memoranda
From
Number
Date
Subject
Heauqusrters
Unnumbered September 25, 1944
Tranemitting Report
U.. Army Forces
on Japanese People's
China-Burma-India
Emancipation League
Chungking
3021
September 29, 1944
Tranemitting Report
on Program of Japanese
Communist Party
Chungking
3179
November 24, 1944
Tranemission of Memo-
randum: The Policy of
the 8th Route Army
Toward Japanese Pris-
oners
Chungking
62
January 3, 1945
Tranemission of Memo-
randa on Peychological
Warfare Against Japan
Tokyo
375
April 16, 1946
Attitude of Leeding
Japan Political
Parties
Tokyo
423
May 17, 1946
Protest Against Jap-
anese General Elec-
tion of April 10,
1946 by Japan Commun-
ist Party
Tokyo
514
July 22, 1946
Peport on Communist
Party Schools in
Japan
Tokyo
529
Ausust 1, 1946
Study of the Japan
Communist Party
Tokyo
13
January 6, 1948
Text of Memoranda
Believed to have been
Prepared by Elements
of Japan Communist
Party
SECRET

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
-64-
From
Number
Date
Subject
Tokyo
256
May 3, 1948
Formation of a Soviet
Culture Friendship
Society in Kobe
Tokyo
299
May 24, 1949
Communist Activities in
Kyushu
Tokyo
480
Augvet 3, 1949
Communist Influence in
Japanese Labor
Tokyo
531
August 19, 1949
Cpinions of Japanese Labor
Leaders Concerning Commun-
ist Activities and Revis-
ion of the National Public
Service Law
Tokyo
630
September 24, 1948
The Communist Potential
in Japan
Tokyo
728
lovember 15, 1948
Central Intelligence Agency
Study in Japan
Tokyo
742
November 22, 1948
Observations During an
Orientation Trip to Hok-
kaido Concerning Current
Political and Economic
Conditions
kyo
807
December 29, 1949
Heedquarters of the Japan
Communist Party
Proletarian and Left-Wing Movemente ir Japan, CIR Document No. 2530A
January 1, 1949.
GHQ, Far East Command, Civil Intelligence
Section, Periodical Summary for
.January 15, 1947
March 15, 1947
April 15, 1947
May 15, 1947
October 15, 1947
November 15, 1947
December 15, 1947
January 15, 1948
February 15, 1948
March 15, 1948
SECRET
April 15, 1948

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
-65-
GHQ, Far Laet Command, Civil Intelligence
May 15, 1948
Section, Pericuical Summary continued for
June 15, 1948
July 15, 1948
September 15, 1948
January 15, 1949
SECRET

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.95)
E POREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
REC'D
MAR 28
United States Political Maviser
G·DIVISION OF
for Japan
DC/
ACTION
No. 140
Tokyo, Larch 10, 1949.
FE
MA501949
CONFIDENTIAL
INFO
DEPARTMENT OF S
DCR
lug.
OLI
EUR
EUR/X
Subject: Japan Comunist Party Statement Regarding War.
1
With reference to French, Italian, and other
communist party state ents coneerning the part to be
played by communists in the event of war with the Soviet
Union, the Acting Political dviser has the honer to
bring to the Depart ent's attention the remarks of
894.00B/3-1049
Mr. ToKUDA Kyuichi, Secretary General of the Tapan
Communist Party, who,  co enting on the Th  ez and
Togliatti statements st a prens sonference Lel at
party headquarters on February 28, le49, is reported
by the Asahi newspaper to have made the following
declaration (translation):
"The essence of these state. ents is an
opposition move.lent against wers instigated
by monopolistic capitalists. The Japan Cem-
munist Party shall fight for securing the
complete independence of our country na shall
strike at any foreign vower inv dins Japan."
While the Tokuda statement is of general character
and does not clarify the com unist party' on
with respect to militury action involving the soviet
Union, it has been cenerully interpreted und criticized
by the Japanese press as en integral part of en amparent
world-wide con unist effort, directed by loscow, to
serve notice that all co unist parties will side with
the Soviet Union in the event of war. Linediately
after Mr. Tokuda's press conference on Februsry 28, the
anti-communist Democratization League (Minshuka Domei)
within the Nationel Coneress of Industrial Unions issued
an open letter to the Japan Commaunist Party criticizing
Mr. Tokuda for not making the Japanese con unist position
clear with respect to a Soviet attack against Japan.
This Mission has received from a reliable source a
translation of the Democratization League's letter, a
1/
copy of which is enclosed.
Enclosure:
Letter from Democratization
MAY 2 - 1949
League.
FITED
Parchment Mat to Department
350.21
ACTION COPpinks: mhp
KETURN TO DO/B PILES WITHDN 14 DAYS, WITE A NOTATION OF ACTION TANES.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.92)
dated Warch 10, 1949 from the
United States Political Adviser
for Japan, Tokyc, on the subject
"Japan Comaunist Party Statement
Regarding War".
(0)
Open Letter to t'e Jayanese Comunist Party
Submitted by the Demoer tizasion League
Congrese or she Tndustrtrl Matons
The various Co muni.t Parties is Surore, sighalized
by the bombastic stete ent maas by Beeretary-General
Thorez of the Trench Jom uni's Purty, cluarly made the
stand of upholding the so. let Tnion in case of the out-
break of war between tieir so mery n the U.S.S.R.
The Communist Partle in urcpe Lsve now eleurly
declared thet t ey re follo  tie sorue of organized
activities based on tre wapli poliey of Joviet Russia.
This line of action Fas mirestly l own tie trme nature
of the Comwunist Ferty a  s ts nothin by which we
should be astounded le liuve, mofore, thst the
interests or the Jepcnese tcople, in reletien pith these
problems in surope, cre pr aually beiay voeused on the
activities of the Counipe arty in Japcn. He resume
that the members ef the Ja en douniet Party are well
aware of this fact
In the January iseue of Chuo-Koren (Sentrel Revtew),
an article on a round-t ble dismmsmlon by OYAia Thuo
NoZaka Sanzo end Asstaa yozeia is ncluded nd, in
this artiele, Nozake statcs tiee "eltioogh the sie
persons who say that, in event sf war, the Co lunist
Party will support the seviet nion, Wo shsll peve lelp
another war Cur foreign olie will be tiat of en eaual
and friendly policy with , ll lomceratie and frienaly
nations". However, can we veseyt these worls without eny
condition?
As is clearly evident from the poliey of the Congress
of Industrial U. ns, the ll-Japan Hetel Workers Union
and from the generel report rade by Secretary-General Tokude
at the Second General Meetin: of the Central Exeoutive
Committee of the Communist Party, the s in objeetive of
their struggle is against "tre Hew Faseism, centering
around America with its imperislistie poliey of interna-
tional moneter: and monopolistic ca italism" Last
August when Geaeral vacAruhur's lettor was made publie
on strikes by the Govern ent mployees' Unions, the
Communication Employees' Union an: other red-uontrolled
unions

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
unions issued "An mer eney Declaration" In this
declar tion it was stated thut they will fight against
those rovern ent officials and finsncial capitelists who
have become spokesnmen for international monetary and
ponopolistic capicelis and that t ey vill fight for the
independence of t e nstion. Aside from Americe, it is
hard to conceive of internstional monopolistic capitalism
and, by new, it as became eryst l cle'r that anti-
Americanisa is te trae ature f the Democratic People's
Front. Thie, ct te sne ti e, implies the meaning or
support for tie soviet nion.He have often pointed
out that th is is rart of Sovlet roliey. On the above
state ent ade by Sanzo Mozake,  e wonier as to what is
meant by "democrstic ani frie aly nation". The entire
people of Japan are deepening their suspicion of the
activities of the Jajan Jo.unist Tarty.
The authorities of tle  erican Govern ent have
declared that the A eiican ar y vill fight if Jaran
is attaoked in event or  nother war. In the Mipron Times,
Secretary-General Tokuda has ststed to the effeot that
the Conmunist Party will ciglt with any enemy entering
Japan, but the Joviet Valion will not omberk on an
imperialistic poliey secretary-General Tohuda, however,
openly professes that Stalin  is comrade and that he
adheres to the principles or Lenin eni Stalin His
article in the Mippon Times, therefore, could be
interpreted that the Japan Communist Party will fight
against any attack aside from ti t of the Soviet Union.
This is not the answer which the people are anticipatins.
He strongly believe, therefore, that it is the
duty of the Jaran Jo unist Party to answer clearly
to the people as to what attitude the Japan Jom lunist
Party will take in eve t of Russia's attaek on Japan.
The Japan Communist Party should speedily ive a
formal answer to the above doabt of the peorle.

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.93)
WAR DEPARTMENT
WAR DRARTMENT GENERAL STAFF
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
Le MAK 1949
From
J3JI) 1D-36, 511.19
DEFACTENT CF STATE
SUBJloT: Pransnittul of Haterial
1. orwardel herowith is a Sumrary of Infornation dated 10
march l040 conttining bic aphical lata and information on the
current activities of SalATA Shoichi,'h professor at Nagoya
894.00B/3-1749
University, Jupan, and a renowmed authority on atomic energy.
3. According to information prosently available, there is
no busis for the ruror cited in the last paragraph of the
summary that Dr. SAiain may soon cone to the United States
for research work. he has not vet made any application or for-
mully expressei any desire to enter the United States. In
view of his past professional asso lation with Dr. Yura c
Hideki, who is now at Princeton University, howover, it is
not unlikely that Dr. SalATA is considering the possibility
of undertaking research work in the United States at some
Puture date.
3. As disclosed in the summary, there is no evidence
that Dr. a has any lirect conneetion with the Japanese
Communist Party. lie is, however, an setive member of a
CSBW
Communist-dominated orgnizaticn, the Democratic Seientists'
Association. It was this asscciation which sponsored his
candidacy for the Science couneil of Jupan, to which he was
clected in December 1948.
FOR THE CHIEF, INTELLICENCE CPOUP:
894.00B/3.
SAVES E. LIGON
Lt. Col., GSC
1 Incl:
Asst. Exec.
S.'I, Shtlhe, Sholchi
Int. Gp., CSGID
DC.
3/25
E.0. 11652, S. 3)  r (5)
Authorily NND 760081
By.Co/SnN.
9 COT 1975
mumber

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFILENTIAL
SUMMARY OF INFORMATION
DATE
10 Maroh 1949
PREPARING OFFICE
Intelligence Division, Departiont of the Army
SUBJECT
CODE FOR USE IN INDIVIDUAL PARAGRAPH EVALUATION
CSGID - ID 36 - 201.
OF SOURCE:
OF INFORMATION:
SAFATA,Shoichi
COMPLETELY RELIABLE
CONFIRMED BY OTHER SOURCES .. 1
USUALLY RELIABLE.
B
PROBABLY TRUE
FAIRLY RELIABLE
POSSIBLY TRUE
NOT USUALLY RELIABLE
D
DOUBTFULLY TRUE
UNRELIABLE
E
IMPROBABLE
RELIABILITY UNKNOWN
TRUTH CANNOT BE JUDGED
SUMMARY OF INFORMATION
The followin: biographical data has been received by the Intelligence Division,
GSUSA, regarding subjeot, whc is a professor at Nagoya University, Japan, and a
renovmed authority on atomic energy:
liame
SAVATA Shoichi
Birth Date
10 January 1911
Birthplace
Tokyo, Japan
Education
1929 - Konan Higher Sohool
1933 - Kyoto Imperial University, Soientific Faculty
Degree: Doctor of Science, 1932
Doctor of Science, Kyoto Imperial University
in 1941
Positions held : 1933-34. Asst. of Institute of Physical and Chemical
Researchers.
1934-39. Asst. of Osuka Imperial University, Scientifio
Faculty
Lecturer of Faculty of Sciences, Kyoto Imperial
University, 1940-42.
1942-date. .Professor at Nagoya Imperial University,
Faculty of Sciences
Scientific
Publications: Publications: On the theory of meson
Accomplishments
decay (doctor thesis), Proc. Phys. Math. soc,
Japan 23, 1941, 291; on the interaction of
elementary particles, Proc. Phys. Math, soo.
Japan 20, 1938, 310; on the relation between
the meson and Yukawa-particles, Nippon Sugaku
Buturigaku Kaisi (proceedings of the Physical
and athematical Society of Japan) 16, 1942,
232; The Spontaneous disintegration of the
mesotron (neutretto), Phys. Rev. 57, 1940, 548;
Theory of atomic nuclei and cosmic rays, (a
monograph in Japanese published by WANAMI-
SHCTEN in 1942, 212 pages, collaborated with
-Prof. Yukawa Hidoki, Kyoto Imperial University.
Research Item: Quantum theory especially theory
of elementary particles, atomic nuclei and
cosmic rays.
Lembership in
Japan Society of Physics
Organizations
Japan Society of History of Science
Democratic Scientist' Society (MINSHU SHUGI KAGAKUSHA
KYOKAI)
DISTRIBUTION
State, FBI, CIA, File
WD
568

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.98)
CCPET
CSGIT-ID-36 201.
SAKFA Shoichi
In December 1948, an informant reported subject as being Chairman of the
agoya Branch of tho Denccratic Scientists' Association (MINSHU SUGI KAGAkUBHA
KYOKAI), a Jommunist-doninated organization, and as such, responsible for the
planning of all lectures and discussion meetings held by the association.
The original purnose of this organization, which was activated in May 1946,
was to combat ultranationalistic groups and to promote demooratic ideals among
scientists and professors. Jommunist infiltration into the leadership of
the organization has been heavy and the association is now said to be generally
reco nized as nothing more than a Communist front. The Nagoya Branch is
said to have about 2o0 members, most of wiom are professors of scientific
subjects at schools und colleges in the Hagoya area. Among Communists in
the association is one self-declared Communist Party member, Sugahara Takashi,
professor of physios, Hagoya University. At national level, the Democratio
Scientists' Association is affiliated with the Japan Democratic Culture League,
a Communist-dominated organization which includes leftist cultural groups
throughout Japan.
According to one informant, if political leanings can be classified as
"Conservative," "Neutral," "Progressive," and "Radical," subject's leanings
oan be said to be "Progressive"; however, informant stated subject does not
take an active part in politics. Subject reportedly has been approached
by Party members on several cccasions to join the Communist Party, but has
repeatedly declined.
The Japan Physics Society, of which subject is also a member, is purely
a scientific organizution with a nationwide membership and is not affiliated
with any political party. In December 1948, subject was elocted a member
c the Soienoo Council of Japan (Nippon Gakujutsu Kaigi).
ce
In the past, subject served as an assistant to Doctor Yukawa Hideki, who
is presently in the United States doiny research work at the Princeton University
Institute for advanced Study. Among soientists, subject is admitted to be
one of the world famous authorities on the science of atomic energy and
some authorities believe him to be superior to Doctor Yukawa in the field
of rosearch.
In February 1949, it was reported that fairly reliable sources in the
Magoya area considered subject to be "a Conmunist" and, furthermore, that
rumors were circulating that subject might soon so to the United States to
work with Dr. Yukawa.
-2-

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.97)
FORM DS-323
7-18-46
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
CLASSIFICATION
Department of State
SECRET
NO.
Washington;
2678
2678
USPOLAD,
TOKYO.
A-39, March 22, 1949
The Department has been informed there are
lists of Communists in English that have been
compiled from Japanese police records. If these
lists are now available the Department desires
to obtain copies together with any supplemental
information that would bring roster of Japanese
Communists up-to-date.
Department hopes that careful lists are being
kept current of Japanese Communists and Communist
sympathizers with adequate biographio data for
leaders and for potential leaders.
Achi
ACHESON
mu
894.00B/3-2249
DISTRIBUTION
FE:NA:HLOry:clh
SY
DESIRED
3/15/49
(OFFICES ONLY)
SECRET
SECRET FILE
894.000
8
C
yC
工
CR CLEARANCE
MAR 21 1949

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.89)
THE PORIIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Advi
for Japan
Tokyo, April 28, 1949
G
we
way18
1110
m
Mo tr le Princi les of Japan Communist
REC'D
Partg.
AY 4
CTION
E
The Re erable
Mo Seuretarp pf State,
894.00B/4-2849
NF O
DCR
SUR/X
OLI
POS
ave e honor to trensmit herewith s copy
of te Je a o nist baity's "strusgle principles"
ITP
DFD
which
 in the Itreh 4, l9t9, issue of the
 diler pr ahate, as trunslated by the
Allied T rsi r na Interpreter Service, General
Teadtes (A.Ts No. Ses, Yarch 4, 1949).
The outline of strugule principles was drafted
by t Polit  eririe lly for tle purpose of
rrevilin
tive nmer to implement policy
deeisicde  t rifth conference of the Central
Co  ittee, ell  party readyuarters in Tokyo
, lse Ths fifuh conference was, of course,
callu  t  cee er f latins party policy in
the li  o pea lte ef the peneral election of
19f. Tie policy decisions or this conference
Luve t  blle, but were set forth in printed
forr. in  meoklet publiehed for use of party members
onl: mrport. s beln made to secure a copy of this
coklst for t rel: sion and transmission to the Department.
us the kahata article
aresirivsoriocsrao the Politburo believes
to be t ajor veakmess of tie party--its failure to
te f l  iv nta of the revolutionary trend permeated
aun t e". In other woras, the Politburo admits
what   f ilei to uld all Japanese leftist elements
into pites feont. Jince the end of the war the
t Party las made rereated efforts to arouse
 in cule front, or what the com unists have
deser ua in the last two years as a "democratio racial
fro".
The  phesis placed by the Politburo in its
exposition
COLTILL
9
1949
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R PILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF AOTION

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2
exposition of struggle principles on the need to
mobilize the masses into "a comprehensive revolutionary
camp" would indicate that in the party's present struggle
against the Yoshida Cabinet every effort will be made
to promote the popular front strategy.
The Politburo's statement goes on to outline the
"reactionary" end "treasonable" character of the Democratic
Liberal Party and the Yoshida government. Considerable
emphasis is placed upon the baleful consequences of the
governient's plan to introduce foreign capital into
Janan. nd the need of production-for-export is interpreted
au a dcvice to strengthen the hold of monopolistic capital
and further exploit the masses. Herein may be discerned
the basic principles of communist attack against the Nine-
Point Economic Recovery Program.
There is then outlined what the Politburo believes
are the weak points of the Yoshida government. Sixteen
specif: rrinjiples of attack are directed, from opposition
strugales to personnel curtailments in government and
industry to tax-reduction campaigns and the exposure of
corruption. In order to carry out this struggle program,
the Politburo notes that "it is necessary to form an
uncondi tional union of sll farmer and worker fronts and
further to forn a single democratic racial front of. the
people". At the same time, the communist party must
free itself from over-emphasis on theory and doctrine
and eliminete internal friction.
In promotins the new struggle, a single target
has been selected. is the Politburo's directive states:
"all struggles are now meaningless unless
they are struggles against the regime in power.
For this reason, all struggles, no matter how
or when they or iginate, must be developed as
struggles against the regime. To make this a
success, each struggle will emphasize that the
choice is between a democratie people's govern-
ment, in other words seizure of power by the
reople, and annihilation."
This significant statement would indicate that, as
a result of the Central Committee's fifth conference,
previous concepts of "peaceful revolution" which have
2.11
camouflaged comnunist strategy since the fifth National
Congress of the party in December 1947 are to be discarded
in favor of a strategy of undisguised revolution by force.
The
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 265,
∴pril 28, 1949.
CONFIDE ITIAL
-3-
The stated revival of a revolution-by-force
stratecy does not necessarily imply that the Japanese
communists are about to embark upon a program of violenoe
and terrorism. Communist tactics in Japan are determined
essentially by opportunity, and so long as Japan remains
under occupation opportunity for the use of violence and
terroris is primerily conditioned by the risks involved.
Nevertheless, this stater ent of the Politburo indicates
7
abancor ent of the peeceful revolution theme in communist
policy and propagande. This would in turn suggest that
the Politburo is tow convinced that the results of the
general election of January 23 demonstrate sufficient
2
increase in co mmunist influence and strength to warrant
advocaey of the more classic principles of revolution.
Befcre the election demonstrated the increased strength
of the party, Jananese comunism seemed to prefer to
camouflage itself with the less alarming tenets of
neaceful revolution; as it increases in strength, its
attitile end policies tend to becone more aggressive and
violent.
The Folitburo aprarently recognizes, however, that
its renewed effort to secure a unified leftist front
under the banner of revolution by foree will require
skilful harmonization and integration, under communist
leadership, of the varied elenents which must of necessity
compose a populer front. Mhat the Politburo calls
"ehnlastic stand: zation" in communist thinking must,
there ore, be eliminated. The party must realize that
workers in different occupations have different viewpoints
and objectives. A united front will of necessity become
a complex framework, and the unification of such diversified
viewpoints and denands is of utmost importance. The
process of unification, however, cannot be undertaken by.
sacrificing the conmunist principle of class antagonism.
Therefore, the Politburo's treatise notes, "class struggles
should be conducted with utiaost care, in order to achieve
objectives ithout destroying unification as a whole."
To steer such a difficult course requires the most careful
education and trainin of party members, and the Politburo
recognizes thet they ust be properly armed with the
working prineiples of Marx-Leninism rather than a ve
merely "a smattering of theoretical knowledge."
Seldom has the Japan Communist Party set forth in
overt manner such a specific and detailed exposition of
its policies and stretegy. This would plainly indicate
that t he results of the genere? -lection have given the
rarty for more confidence and  If assurance than it
has had beretofore.
Respectfully yours,
rseince
W. J. Sebald
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.94)
CONF IDEN TIAL
Enclosure: atT!
Article entitled "Conmunist
Political Bureau Bares Struggle
Principles" from Akahata, March 4,
1949.
Parchment Mat to Department.
350.2
CNSpinks:mhp
CONFIDENTIAL
Set

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.97)
"New Struggle Prinoip
Communist Partyn.
Cy  uhist Polipical Bureau Bares Struggle Principles
Mahe ta 4 Liar 49.
Full Translition:
fhe Political Bureau of the Communist Party held
senoral eetine last Jednesday to investigate the present
serious siynotion. ll members in Tokyo, including TOkuDA
NOZAIA,  IY UTO, ITO (RitSu), HASEGAWA, KONNO and KON
as well as SHIGa and sLIDa, who returned from their trip
to Kansai, were in ettendance.
At tlis meetin, it was decided to concentrate all
efforts to overtirow tie Yoshida Cabinet along the lines
of the policy determined by the fifth conference of the
Central Conmittee. The strife principles are decided at
this reeting were disclosed yesterday as follows:
Preface
These prinei les have been adopted to implement the
decision of the fifth conference of the Central Committee.
Hence, the latter should always be referred to in executing
these prineiples. On this occasion, it is particularly
required to pay attention to the self-criticism made at
the Central Committeo conference and watch its development
to realize tre basis of the new strategy indicated in its
decision.
at present, the createst defect of bur party is
that desrite the revolutionary trend permeated among the
musses, it hss f iled to mobilize them into our struggle
and organize ti em into a com rehensive revolutionary camp.
The objeetive of the present prineiples is to remove this
defect  ickly. le request thet our coarades and sympathizers
me ke strenuous efforts to accomplish this task by fully
underste diny those prineiples.
I. Character of the Democratic Liberal Regime
On this occasion in developing a new campaign, we call
special attention to the character of the Democratio Liberal
rejime, whioh is the very enemy now confronting us. It is
a Govern ent of monopolistic capital, which hes combined
with, or has been attemptins to combine with, foreign
capital. It has concentrated funds, materisi, and labor
in monopolistic carit l, by abusing its malicious power
with the present bureaucratic control as its tool. This
has been carried out by concentrating production of all
industries into a han ful of monopolistic capitalists who
possess bigh efficiency facilities, and further, by making
it inevitable, thipush revision of anufacturing standards,
to de end upon importation of production facilities and
materials.
Moreover,

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
oreover, to cememrate production toward export
ky meterials have been placed at the disposal of monopolitt
capitalists. In aidition, since the export industries
cannot ccver costs, they must be subsidized at the expense
of the people. In other words, it is a starvation export
For this reason, do estic capital, small enterprises,
  ins, an? fishery, es compared with comprador capital,
 collapsed, ni the worxers and salaried men are being
lead into slavery. In short, a powerful bureaucratic control
has been ebused to protect monopolistic capital which
at esrts to see our race, while domestic capitalists, small
entrepreneurs, and the people heve been given only the
"freedom" to collapse. This is the true character of the
treacherous Democratie Liberal regime.
To de.elop our new campaign, the basic principle
should be to ecquaint the veople of the true character of
the present recime on the followins points:
1. It should be clarified that the present Democratio
Liberal Cabinet led by Yoshida does not differ in character
from the former Katayama or Ashida cabinets. Rather, it
has an even stronger treasonable character; it is the most
heteful enemy of our race.
2. The most malicious intention to extract the blood
of the people to the last drop by completely betraying its
public promise, is its char cteristic.
3. It is obviously heading toward fascism by
strengthening its m chinery for suppressing the people
as illustreted by the fact that: (a) In compiling th
budget, funis for stcbilizing the peoples' livelihood
have been curtailed, hile stress has been placed on
eppropriations of funds to suppress the people. (b) The
number of olicemen, jail officials and "maritime security"
officials has been remerkably increased. Moreover, they
have been paid about 50 percent higher wages than general
goverm ent end publie office workers of the same rank.
Followin: the strength vin: of the tax collection machinery
tax officisls heve been iven the power to override basic
rights cuaranteed by the Constitution.
II. Jignificence of Reactionary Cabinet Offensive
In view of extrecely irretional policies of the
Yoshidc Cabinet, it is obvicus that it will succumb soon
to the internsl uprisins of the peoples' offensive.
Despite this fact, is has been making frantic efforts to
execute such policies. This must be attributed to the
fact thst it cannot otherwise avoid the collapse of
capitalism and preserve its power.
Thus,

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.89)
fiads itself in a dilemma in all fields and
y sttec in: these weak points. We must make
frort t enli hten the people of the faot that th
rey tovuri the estehlishment of a peoples' govor
 c overt.ro: the present power st the earliest
ros i le. is shoull be the objeotive of our 
to be 'evelonel hereafter.
Trl mai. Point of attack
There s  wesa to say that the aim of our 
is to sre t e traisorous onoroly curitalists and
their ovn est, t Yoshide dministration. Aocon
all our ioas ul be concentrated upon theso o
  ovts are no sproutin
e t wot only hel tese young sprouts grow into
reee,  l er ce ew srrouts by aotive propa
r o t o L edittely beun, vhenever possible
prielles   coted uron in our struggle.
. (p csition to ever reuctionary reasures that
win he te to ea le the  us nonopoly capital
to ene cll roluctien, or in ther words, to introdud
lorein  it l. T.ls prineiple covere these 18 points:
1iss resultin fre rastic enterprise
roljuetent i une..ploy.ment res ltine from the collaps
of m tiol ceite rd smaller nterprises. This att
hes  vital beer lhe twen the fute ef the workers. It
euns tit in icition +o the present numbor of unemploy
and ce 1- mem lo: ed (amounting rougly to 10,000,000)
several illie: viil lcce their jobe. This consideratiom.
isre Justiric  the sensational phenomenon of hum
trfie.
Te ves el  io steslily strengt ening it
fortresss  carloit the recple. This, in turn, mean
"solonial' syeta o rroluction which will menace the
Pour fatten of our natt mal Lde c dence. It will further
neu ce te vor fe adation or our social order.
le r ansiler t is estion in l seriousnes
It is ct utter of a few indiviamal enter prlaea nor
of e few iniustries. It is a problem of the whole peoplo
dccordinly, vur str le in tiis sirection should be
corried out in cuch a way tat, by evailing ourselves or
the reasr or t Lol co le, steps will be taken to
place jrortuct indus tries unuer porul r control and
to es'e'i: poraler proluesion manugenent for falling
staller entorpises (here it is secessary to inolude 
capitalists involved).
Leanwhile

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.87)
ean ile, we cust lemand the eb
ouluerrises und publio wo ks for the w
unemployment insurance, will also be  ne
a systen will cover ell unemployed and 
air-raid vletius. s a first step toward thim
must ecdeavor to secure provisions and housine
in sccordonce ith: the National Welfare Law.
2. O ositio: to siministrative retrenohmon
people seer. to be relaxine, supposing that the
of iministrative retrench ent has been postponod
tieinut ti is a ross istake. As a m
exa  le, "ma ural" Isamissals, changes in porae
asi  t wi ccel te employees to leave tho
1i.7
i i sals resulting fro. organizational rotront
The situ tlon now is really serious and has 
rt t eerin pon the nemployment suestion ju
rel t. rdlly, i ediate steps should be
to cone n this situstion.
Cr cicio to Latensified labor end low
rolisuion  delayed payment 
prosents seris pro! lem, ousewives are engagd 
act ive ve nt in is reureet The problem haa givh
rice tr  areoit at i ues such as tho
li or  Livslitcod Protection Law and the 
sle ofi ods. hile careful scudy is neoded
ror thetere, we ust o a ssep further and ond
to se i ve to e nlvonced objectives, such as the a
or s t  i, r tic losering ef prices, striot
enrreeeor lr grees ects, holition of the 
wage lo11.tio s.
In e rd to duluyed poyment of wages, the Prosoonto
gonersl's state...eat .ut steps should be taken to punim
violatios of the I: or Standerds Law may sound
to come p e. Yower r, we t not forget that u
steps wai l only sarve te treitorous scheme to deatroy
ne tional crital unl sller industries. Therefore, in
suoi.
.lists, well, should stand up 
defend alonl eu Irl end smaller enterprises.
4. Cr csition to the clas ification system for
covern s  uplos  to o denial of the right to
strike, tlme Io, to tie present NPSL.
. Op osition to iverse revision of labor legimlat
In order to f ailitute adverss revision of labor logimlet
the Coverm nt is tryine to stereotype the contemt pr
lubor reerents by esns of vice-minister memorandas

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
direct interference on the part of its agencies.
Accordingly, our opposition to revision of labor
legislation should not be confined to ordinary strategies
He must vigorously oppose any adverse modification of
labor agreements. Labor agreements which have been
illegally modified must be corrected.
6. Expcsure of concealed farmland and fair classifi-
cation of land. This furnishes a basis for taxation
and the assignuent of quotas. Our movement in this
direction must therefore, be pushed forward side by side
with our struggle concerning taxation and food delivery.
It involves: ietermination of a reasonable rice price,
together vith locally differentiated minimum wage
standards based on such a rice price; demand for a third
fermland reform; establishment of tiiling rights and
fishing rights.
7. Opposition to the Government's refusal to buy
up firewood snd charcoal. We must oppose the Government's
refusal to buy up these products which will menace salt
fields, lignite mines, and smaller coal mines. We mus t
struggle to protect fishermen in case of poor catches,
to maintain fish prices, and to alleviate taxes.
8. Struggle for imaediate remedies for national
disasters.
9. Abolition of mass taxation; establishment of
highly progressive tax rates; opposition to violent
means of collecting taxes; opposition to the introduction
of new taxes, including producer's tex, note tax,
gasoline tax, service tax, transportation tax, insurance
tax.,
Opposition to establishment of local land utilization
tax. This would amount to nine and a half times as much
as the existing land tax. The result would be t hat tenant
rents will rise sharply despite the existing limits,
inasnuch as landowneers as well as plain farmers would be
heavily burdened. Consequently, the tight money situation
would compel tenants to pay their rents in kind, and this
would .ean further nardships to tenant farmers. In effect,
the farmland reform vo uld be rendered meaningless and
would only end by reviving the old landowner system.
Opposition to other local taxes as fruit sales tax,
special acts tax (including taxes imposed on publication
of magazines and taking of photo pictures), gasoline tax,
tobacco consumption tax, license tax.
Opposition to increased residence tax, alcohol
consumption tax, mine tax, and hunting tax. Opposition
to raising of transportation, power and mail rates and
the monopoly prices of coal, steel, oil, etc.
10. Exposure

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.83)
-6-
. xnosure of ig-scale tax evader
strle itherto been concentrated up
of the burden and little ettention has be
the taxation system itself. Nowadays, howe
recnles' tx-hearing capacity has reaohed it
7r the rcoe t con itions should continue furt
 liza in cve unt would succeed in protoot
livelilte ople. e cay illustrate
i turiens orne by the farmr
recei
arcuntel
1 s in 1957 (th 
le1977th
the f ers te ruy  se percent of their incpmo
to te lovern ent. Ioreover, tl:is is but a vory
estisute ased on  aversge far er's fmily.
ot er me roesl exe ples. uch being the 
tr cut otive movements to
  .
1Corosicion to tis monopolization of u
i terials y the tra i corous monepoly capitalist
orosition te te lissrition of funds and mat
in fuvor i eerore tsunstries wt fon will bring 
the people: ave ats to sec are funus and materitr
srcliur  ter ices ml natlonel cupital: utili
of Puns i for  s llization or
livelllscd: o cel cin wo jheuit  le foreign 
meruein t tud lnce or te nation; estabil
or pablt ui te o under pe uler control al
Ln rovin tre Foo le's livelihoou.
 ustabli t of elical facilities
Improvemeat er publir  calth. Theso are pointos
are orto  egleetea, t they are most importanty
ou livell.
13. 0 esItion to the degeneration of the
syste into slevery: shecurt ecent of science
ad ou r r t  sake or a tonl independend
Op csition to all measures violatingh
un el tt or te reorle.
1.   e of orurtion i boss extor
Ssesl  a t eusute concerns the lo
aaten cr te per lu. rre st be emphasized n
cor r ofo ts Nowad
fi
 t ortant that the peele  ould seoure
rer in ir hands.
Populaur control in industries  ust be ole
combined iti joint dministretion systems in
iistriets and ith te improvement of educatld

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.87)
-7-
l cilities aimed at the establ
natimal inde pendence. In order to fmo
i his direction, we ust icediately fo
clples   unieipel covernsent"
le. Crposicion to the stronomical bude
lor le! t e ex e se of the people; ourt
unprotiv e enditures, ineluding subsidie
to   
T r to curry ut these movement
es o Po montitionel union or a
ma orr froats cei further to form a singlo
in so doine, it i
to free elves fro. the sake of the old thepry
princi le no to see to it th t no ugly internal 
t
In short, all Iscues should be deel
that e ay be sure of our final 
we el revive Le oveets for Socialist-Co
omotion of eurly conclusion of the peo
Iv. Develc of I ediately Required 
1. l eile ni part orns will give mo
to tie le onstratin it openly to
and b carry in cut teir lsclon as its leader
ven uurd.  is is in no wey ineonsonant with hu
towsrd tie rssees or is it to eneourage pressurs
above. It eune peshin the surusgle forward rom
in accord ne it t e self-criticisn carried out
ceneral catine of  e Jentrel Comaittee.
. re eaningless unl
are st li st he reime in power. Fort
rea or,  r les, no atter how or when tha
must e levelope  str les ainst the regimo
wak t i cce, ai strle will emphesi
in o eror
of poby the people and
annilin
 ex o front to achieve a 
the grouuet or cll ovils, by uniting a front or
claesee. Tr th is end, ali sorts of denands wilird
rro erl:  ise. Unity is re pired for the wholes
scl leve nt of these iversified demands

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
Of course, these demands, which will have different
bearings upon the achievement of the ultimate objective,
must be unified while yet preserving their variety. There-
fore, we ust eliminate the scholastic standardization
we are apt to indulge in. Workers in big enterprises.
are placed under conditions different from those under
which workers in small and mediun enterprises are placed.
Therefore, deands of the first group must not be
standardized with those of the second sroup. It is
necessary to sccept such demands to unify them within a
big framework. This framework vi ll become complex, if
capitalists should be included in it. In this sense, it
is e mission of vital importance to unify these diversi-
fied derands.
4. The formation of such a big unified front,
which is absolutely necessary et present, by no means
eradicstes class antagonism in our camp. class struggles
should be conducted with utmost care, in order to
achieve objectives vithout destroying unification as a
whole.
5. From the viewpoint of national independence
tecnniciens and managers who have occupied high posts
not only in snall end edium enterprises but also in
bigs enterprises  ust be dravn to the workers' front.
Sometimes, company lirectors ay be included in our
Iont, but vorkers should have the firm and unshakable
conviction to lead them for the purpose of having them
contribute to the developuent of our front.
6. t present, all strugsles are eaningless
unless they a re conducted under the massive political
pressure of the entire people. Therefore, we must
always keen a lerge-seale mass struggle in mind by
elimin.
i1 the neer-sighted attitudes of the past.
7. This emphasizes the importance of regional
strugales which shoul? be developed as struggles
against uthority.
8. All sorts of demagogy dispensed by the capitalists
and the Covernment must be refuted carefully. For example,
they say that the number of govern ent employees is
large compred with the entire population of the netion
and the nuiber of laboriny people. It is demagogy for
the r ose of ealizin adninistiative edjustment,
intensified labor efficiency, and a cheap labor system
for the benefit of monopoly capital. The fact is that
the pereente e is less tlan malf of that in the United
States.
9. In the face of the complote bankruptey of
national finance the Governnent is planning to sell
government-owned properties to civilian end foreign
capital. The sravity of this should be widely propagandized.
At the same time, we must organize a large-scale strusgle
against tiis attempt and unify it with other struggles.
10. This

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
10. This strategy ranges from primitive to
very advanced ones. To unify them for one goal, we
must be bold ani courageous. It is necessary to develop
our talents to the fullest extent.
ll. In carrying out these struggles, the management
of political newspapers (from Akahata down to posters)
is of vital importance. Needless to say, their importance
does not only lie in developing individual struggles.
Specific importance should be laid in enhancing the
class end political atmosphere as a whole. For this
purpose, all political newspapers ust be utilized to
the fullest extent. Political newspapers should be
utilized for the purpose of achieving the goal which will
not be realized without exapanding our party end mass
organizations.
V. Essentiality of Farty Education
What is most important for us in carrying out the
new strugcles is rap idly to develop party education
throughout the party. This cigantic struggle will not
be successful without improving the quality of party
members and party organs. This means that the Communist
Party will be armed with Marx-Leninism. In other words,
from the highest organ cown to each member, the party
is being trained through the unification of theory and
action. Education has so far meant cramming knowledge
in our heads as is the case with school education.
Education has :eant to hsve a smettering of theoretical
knowledge.
In order to eliminate this defect, the Political
Bureau decision on beginners education and education
for pary officials have been resented. In the decisions,
action is stressed, and it is so arranged that theoretical
knowledge can be developed through action.
This does not mean disregard for acguisition of
a higher theory but emphasis on self-study as was
originally needed. It is desirable, therefore, that
an all-out effort be exerted to realize these decisions
with the foregoing view in mind. Thus, the party
members can, at any moment ond at any place, fulfill
thuir respective missions as the vanguard and leaders of
the people。

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.90)
MB
INCOMINGAIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
1
A
DIVISION OF
ACTION:PE
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
INP)
DC/R
MAY 1 2 1949
U.1 OL..D, Tokyo
SA/M
EUR/X
DEPARTMENT OF STADE of
DC/T.
t1lln: i.y 4, 1949
OFD
May 11, 1949, 11:09 
Officoof
FAR EASTERN AFFARS
MAY 12 1949
DIRECTOR
Department of State
sio.' espetch no. 265
 ,19 
e "stru le rinoiples'
of tiu e o untt rarty. the co unist dally,
daban p  1 Ls 1s  of Ar11 29, 1949 
ocuent rrei to t t y Day canifesto of the
Janen comniot rurt
e ay my  nifsto is thorouhly in line with
tho sur le  I iei les leseribed in the cbove mentioned
des stc!. It is  refaeel iti reference to "ucchinationo"
alnst orld pecce, purtlouierly the "Pacifio trcaty
plot' (Iet rring to vi: lous cucostlon for a Poeirio
 ree.ent to sup. le ent the Rcrth tlantic reet) and
the reeet: on ry effort to prett up the Jorld Foderation
of Trcde Unlons. In spite of these counter-rovolutlonsry
mevements, the anifusto yoints out that the chinose
cou unists re alvensing to victory, enl "the lrresistible
arowtn of the vorld's delocrttio  orces" im els the
usses of Japr to oxpund their front in the strug le
a aInst t e trcitorous polioy of the Yoshida Cabinet.
Throu hout the . anifesto thore le repeated reference
to the unificntlon of the .asses .d the crcstion of a
united front. Tie inliesto ecluros that the Japen
MAY 2 4 1949
Co.unist  rty iesires coaplete nstionel irdc: endence"
ar a shc ll :ocoet to es cie jalustry ogellst ruin".
e sl l os! of t o siru le, as syubolized by the
oitiet  by e lebr tion, is the overthrov of the
Fost. et  'its mono oly cepltallst eters."
It is
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R contral Mes with metatlem ef aotlen taken.

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.84)
Tokyo, 
-2-
It is ux ect t. t t is ear's ay Diy demontr
vilt le the largo t e  underse o in Japin. hilo 
ere no posi ive i. ic. lons th t violnce y bo expeot
tre Japanes pollu  vell as t o Cusupatton forces have
bee..iorto.
550.21
COI.I)E..rI.

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.84)
AstLem tabem.
notes
Unitei States Political
7/2751
for Japan
Date of 
TO.O, . ISION 0
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
N171949
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Subject: Inlex of Iertict Ortsu ione in Janan.
The Charye d'affuires ei ntcri. has the honer
1/
to treaecit eicht corise cp   in es of loftist
organizations In Ja-un co milel  tie Filit ry
Intelligence Jection, ceisra Ter arters, for the
ilitery Intelli cnco sec loa e Pe lodlcal Ju ery,
1scue n5. 40 of Ler 10, 1040.
In ve o rilclen, lelt or ccizerione
are iu exed under  ot husmce p lies tat tel tiono
of their nones nn o on ea c  co. lts tie
Mnglier inden  ure er  or
's cotivity
is potod alon viti te is rce to  foh it ie sot
mile this index is  ot  cxicuslive list of
ll Japanese orgeniuetfose  fu st co le lep, it
inoltos ll inrorteut os o ve  t e  onsl
level.
att
Enclosure:
Ie.ex or Leftist Ore nlz tions
i Jarun (oirt copic)
Purolment Lat to Dorurt. .eut
350.2
CN3pinks: mhp
E
DECLASSIFIED
810.4
E.0. 11632. Sec. 34E) and 9(0) (r (2)
J03.10.

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.98)
37
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
FAR EAST COMMAND
MILITARY INTELLIGENCE SECTION. GENERAL STA
CIVIL INTELLIGENCE SECTION
SPECIAL REPORT
ALPHABETICAL INDEX
OF LEFTIST ORGANIZATIONS
IN JAPAN
REVISED MAY 1949
SECRET
DECLASSIFIED
E.0. 11652, Sec. 3(E) and 5(D) or ()
Authority aND.76001
By CD/ENARS, Date  OCT 1975

=== Page 163 === (confidence 1.00)
FROM
APPENDIX TO
CIS PERIODICAL SUMMARY
ISSUE NO. 40
15 MAY 49
ALPHABETICAL
INDEX
OF
LEFTIST ORGANIZATIONS
IN
JAPAN
The following list brings
up to date the index first pub-
lished in CIS Periodical Sum-
mary No. 34, 15 Nov 48. Many
organizations which have become
active in the past five months
have been added. Groups which
have been dissolved or have be-
come inactive have been deleted.
(A)
Alphabetically by English translation
with a brief explanation of the organ-
ization's activity.
(B)
Alphabetically by Romaji, with the
English translation.
CIVIL INTELLIGENCE SECTION
G-2, FEC, SCAP

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX
LEFTIST ORGANIZATIONS IN JAPAN
Key to extent of Communist influence
A - Completely controlled by Japan Communist Party
B - Communist front organization, under Communist Control
C - Under Communist control but with opposition present
D - Strongly influenced but not controlled by Communists
E - Slight to moderate Communist influence
*****
Note: Organizations are listed alphabetically by English translations of
Japanese names, as standardized in Civil Intelligence Section publications.
Translations from other sources occasionally may be at variance with Japa-
nese name translations listed below. In such cases, if Japanese names are
available, identification should be made by reference to the index of Japa-
nese "Romaji" names appended to this roster. Commonly used abbreviations
appear following the "Romaji."
*****
EXTENT OF
NAME
JCP INFLUENCE
NATURE OF ACTIVITY
All Communications Workers
A
National Labor union of all employ-
Union (NCIU) (ZEN TEISHIN RODO
ees of the Japanese Communications
KUMIAI) (ZENTEI)
Ministry.
Automobile Industry Workers
D
National labor union of workers in
Union, All Japan (ZEN NIPFON
automobile and truck building com-
JIDOSHA SANGYO RODO KUMIAI)
panies.
(ZENJIDOSHA)
Chemical Industry Workers Union,
C
National labor union of workers in
All Japan, (NCIU) (ZEN NIPPON
chemical industry
KAGAKU SANGYO RODO KULL.I) (ZEN
NIKKA)
China Research Institute
B
Conducts research into Chinese af-
(CHUGOKU KENKYUSHO)
fairs and publicizes findings thru
lectures and publications.
Chinese Communist Area Repatri-
B
Extends assistance to repatriates
ates Society (CHUKYO CHIKU HI-
from Communist territory in China.
KIAGESHA KAI)
Cultural Federation of Korean
B
Affiliate of the Korean League;
Residents in Japan (ZAI NIPPON
Maintains close liaison among the
CHOSEN BUNKA DANTAI RENGOKAI)
Korean groups in Japan.
Dawn Printing Company (AKATSUKI
B
Prints the official newspapers of
INSATSU KABUSHIKI KAISHA)
the JCP, Young Communist League
and the NCIU.
Democracy Protection League
B
Political pressure group promoting
(MINSHUSHUGI YODO DOMEI)
JCP policies and opposing SCAP pro-
(MINYODO)
grams.
Democratic Commerce and Industry
B
Organization among medium and small
Society (MINSHU SHOKO KAI)
businessmen with major mim of ati
lating anti-tax strife.
Democratic Loan Committee (MINSHU B
Fukuoka group for promoting
YUSHI IINKAI)
amall and medium indust

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX
EXTENT-OF.
NAME
JCP INFLUENCE
NATURE OF ACTIVITY
Democratic Motion Picture Society
B
Aims to encourage showing of "sih-
(MINSHU EIGA NO KAI)
cere and cultural," including
Soviet, films.
Democratic Nurture League
D
Conducts meetings on democratic
(MINSHU HOIKU REMMEI)
upbringing of children.
Democratic Nutrition Ass'n
D
Gives advice on diet, and propagan-
(MINSHU EIYO KYOKAI)
da on current food shortage.
Democratic Paper-Play Group
D
Sponsors paper drama exhibits and
(MINSHU KAMI-SHIBAI SHUDAI.)
lectures.
Democratic Scientists Ass'n
B
Propagates Communist doctrines in
(MINSHUSHUGI KAGAKUSHA KYOKAI)
natural and social sciences among
intelligentsia; conducts. lecture
courses, seminars, etc.
Democratic Students League
B
Protects students' livelihood, de-
(MINSHUSHUGI GAKUSEI DOMEI)
mocratization of school, opposition
to fascism and militarism.
Education Defense Union
B
Struggles for teachers' right to
(KYOIKU BOEI DOLEI)
organize and strike, is opposed. to
educational "fascism"
Education Democratization
B
Conducts lecture and discussion
Council (KYOIKU MINSHUA KYO-
meetings on education.
GIKAI)
Electrical Manufacturing Workers
A
National labor union of workers in
Union, All Japan (NCIU) (ZEN
electric apparatus manufacturing
NIPPON DENKI KOGYO RODO KUMIAI)
industry.
(ZEN DENKO)
Electric Industry Workers Union,
C
National labor union of all elec-
Al1 Japan (NCIU) (ZEN NIPPON
tric power workers in Japan.
DENKI SANGYO RODO KUMIAI) (DEN-
SAN)
Express Company Workers Union,
D
National labor union of all em-
Al1 Japan (NCIU) (ZEN NIPPON
ployees of the Japan Express Com-
 TSUUN RODO KUMAI)(ZEN NITTSU)
pany.
Federation of Harbor Workers
D
National labor union of stevedores.
Unions, All Japan (NCIU) (ZEN
NIPPON KOWAN RODO KUMIAI DOMEI)
(ZEN KOWAN)
Federation of Korean Labor
B
Promotes political and economic in-
Unions in Japan (ZAI NIPFON
terests of Korean laborers.
CHOSENJIN RODO KUMIAI SODOMLI)
Federation of Social Science Re-
B
School organization for study of
search Societies (SHAKAI KAGAKU
political and social conditions,
KENKYU KAI RENGOKAI)
especially Communism.
: Fed'n of Student Soviet Research
B
Liaison among students' Soviet re-
Circles (GAKUSEI SOVIETO KENKYU
search groups; sponsors lectures.
SAKURU RENGOKAI)
APP - 2

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX
EXTENT OF
NAME
JCP INFLUENCE
NATURE CA
Federation of Tokyo Metropolitan
D
Labor union of employ
Workers Unions (TOKYO TO RODO
metropolitan government.
KUMIAI RENGOKAI) (TOROREN)
Finance Ministry Three Operating
National labor union of work
Bureaus Workers Union (OKURA
the Mint, Printing and Monopols
SANGENCHO RODO KUMIAI)
Bureaus of the Finance Ministry
Foodstuff Industry Workers Union,
D
National labor union of workere an
All Japan (NCIU) (ZEN NIPPON SHO
foodstuff industry.
KURYO SANGYO RODO KUMIAI)
General Federation of Autonomous
C
National labor union of employees
Govemment Workers Unions, (NIPPON
of prefectural govemment offices
JICHI DANTAI RODO KUMIAI SORENGOKAI)
and metropolitan and municipal
(JICHIROREN)
government offices.
General Federation of Japan Private C
National Federation of private
Railway Workers Unions (NIFPON
railway workers unions.
SHITETSU RODO KUMIAI SORENGOKAI
(SHITETSU SOREN)
Government Railway Workers Union
(KOKUTETSU RODO KUMTAI) (KOKUTETSU) D
National labor union of all employ
ees of the Japanese Government
railways.
Independent Dramatic Troupes
D
Gives instruction in dramatics and
Council (JIRITSU ENGEKIDAN KYOGI-
play writing; aimed especially at
KAI)
labor union dramatics.
Intelligentsia Society (CHISHIKI-
A
Provisional name for anti-war group
JIN NO KAI)
sponsored by leading JCP members.
Internat'l Politics Research So-
D
Conducts research into world poli-
ciety (KOKUSAI SEIJI KNKYUKAI)
tics and issues pamphlets on their
studies.
Japan Anarchist League (NIPPON
E
Solicits converts to anarchism by
ANAKISUTO REMMEI)
lectures and publications.
Japan Cultural Cooperative Union
D
Provides leftist lecturers and
(NIPPON BUNKA KYODO KUMIAI)
material to labor unions and cul-
ture groups.
Japan Demobilized Comrades Ass'n
D
Promotes liaison and extends sup-
(NIPPON FUKUIN DOSHIKAI)
port to war veterans, repatriates
and other war victims.
Japan Democratic Culture League
B
Sponsors cultural conferences,
(NIPPON MINSHUSHUGI BUNKA REM-
supports radical petitions and
MEI) (BUNREN)
protest meetings, serves as clear-
ing house for information, coordin-
ates cultural movements.
Japan Democratic Education Ass'n
B
Disseminates Communist propaganda
(NIPPON MINSHUSHUGI KYOIKU KYO-
by members to school children.
KAI)
Japan Democratic Women's Council
B
Sponsors lectures and women's
(NIPPON MINSHU FUJIN KYOGIKAI)
rallies.
APP - 3

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX
EXTENT OF
NAME
JCP INFLUENCE
NATURE OF ACTIVITY
Japan Esperanto Institute
D
Spreads Esperanto studies thru
(NIPPON ESPERANTO GAKKAI)
classes, publications and reaearch
Japan Farmers Union (NIPPON
C
Promotes political and economic
NOMIM KUMIAI) (NICHINO)
interests of farmers.
Japan Federation of Coal Miners
D
National labor union comprising
Unions,(NIPPCN TANKO RODO KUMIAI
over two-thirds of the nation's
RENGOKAI) (TANRO)
coal miners.
Japan Fine Arts Society (NIPPCN
B
Creates and disseminates "democra-
BIJUTSU KAI)
tic" fine arts thru exhibits and
research.
Japan Journalists League
B
Fromotes liaison among leftist
(NIPPON JANARISUTO RI)
newspapernen, opposes reactionary
newspapers.
Japan Juvenile Art Society
D
Holds lectures and exhibits to in-
(NIPPCN DOCA KAI)
fluence art teachers and children.
Japan Modern Music Society
B
Gives aid to "democratic" musi-
(NIPFON GENDAI ONGAKU NAI)
cians, holds concerts and conducts
music seminars.
Japan Motion-Picture-Men's
B
"Frogressive" motion picture group
League (NIPFON EIGAJIN DOMEI)
sponsoring production of "democra-
tic" films and repeal of admission
tax.
Japan Organ Publications Ass'n
D
Coordinates efforts to improve
(NIPPON KIKANSHI KYOKAI)
position of Leftist publications.
Japan Political Economy Research
E
Research institute operated by
Inst: (NIPPOI SEIJI KEIZAI YEN-
Sano Gaku; sponsors lectures, com-
KYUSHO)
piles reports.
Japan-Soviet Cultural Relations
B
Disseminates pro-Soviet propaganda
ASS'n (NISSO BUNKA RNRAKU KYO-
thru lecture courses and publica-
KAI)
tions.
Japan Soviet'Friendship Associa-
B
Resurrection of old society of same
tion (NISSO SHINZEN KYOKAI)
name. Extremely active since first
of year. Apparently intended to be-
come the Soviet gmup dealing with
all cultural matters between Japan
and the USSR.
Japan Teachers Union (NIPPON
D
National union of all Government
KYOSHOKUIN KUMIAI) (NIKKYOSO)
school teachers in primary, sec-
ondary, normal schools, colleges
and universities.
Japan Young Communist League
A
Subsidiary of JCP; conducts agita-
(NIPFON SEINEN KYOSAN DOMEI)
tion and propaganda among Japanese
(SEIKYO)
youth.
Japan Youth Congress (NIPPON
·B
Represents all youth organizations,
SEINEN KAIGI)
the Young Communist League, labor
union youth departments and student
organizations.
APP - 4

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX
EXTENT OF
NAME
JCP INFLUENCE
NATURE OFAD
Juvenile Literature Writers
B
Holds research and lectur
Ass'n (JIDO BUNGAKUSHA KYOKAI)
liaison with teachers
creation of a healthy juvenil
erature.
"Kana" Script Society (KANA MOJI
E
Works for adoption of "kana" me
KAI)
in place of Chinese characters.
Kansai Chinese Cultural Groups
B
Successor to Chinese Culture Ro
League (KANSAI CHUGOKU BUNKA
search Society (CHUGOKU BUNKA KEN
DANTAI REMMEI)
KYO KAI) attempting to establish
contact with Chinese Communists.
Kawakami Society (KAWAKAMI KAI)
B
Formed early 1948 by JCP hororing
Marxist Professor Kawakami Hajime:
Reportedly connected with Russian,
Chinese Communists.
Korean Artists' Association
B
Disseminates Communist propaganda
(CHOSEN GEIJITSU DOSHIKAI)
under pretense of developing
Korean fine arts and friendship.
Korean Cooperative Union
D
Affiliate of the Korean League;
(CHOSEN KYODO KUMIAI)
activities unknown.
Korean Democratic Women's League
B
Affiliate of the Korean League;
(ZAI NIPPON CHOSEN MINSHU JOSEI
promotes interests of Korean women
DOMEI)
in Japan.
Korean Democratic Youth League
B
Affiliate of the Korean League;
(ZAI NIPPON CHOSEN MINSHU SEINEN
acts as the vanguard of the Korean
DOMEI) (MINSEI)
League in its Communist activities;
conducts agitation and propaganda
among young Korean Communists.
Korean Economics Research Insti-
B
Affiliate of the Korean League;
tute (CHCSEN KEIZAI KENKYUSHO)
disseminates Communist propaganda
among the Koreans.
Korean Federation of Industrial
B
Affiliate of the Korean League;
Unions (CHOSENJIN GYOSHUBETSU
promotes welfare of the Korean
KUMIAI RENGOKAI)
manufacturers and industrialists.
Korean Industrial and Eccnomic
B
Disseminates Communist propaganda
Institute (CHOSEN SANGYO KEIZAI
to other Leftist Korean organiza-
KENKYUSHO)
tions.
Korean Liberation Relief Society
B
Affiliate of Korean League; pro-
(CHOSEN KAIHO UNDO KYUEN KAI)
motes liberation of Korea.
Korean Literature Association
D
Affiliate of the Korean League;
(CHOSEN BUNGAKU KAI)
disseminates. Korean.culture pre-
sumably with Communist tinge.
Korean Students League in Japan
B
Affiliate of the Korean League;
(ZAI NIPPON CHOSEN GAKUSEI DOMEI)
promotes interests of Leftist
Korean students; sponsors Leftist
cultural activities.
Korean Technical Science Associ-
D
Affiliate of the Korean League
ation (CHOSEN KAGAKU GIJUTSU KYO-
promotes interests of Korean
KAI)
scientists and technicians.
APP - 5

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX
EXTENT OF
NAME
JCP INFLUENCE
NATURE OF ACTIVITY
Labor-Farmer Liaison Council
B
Communist front pressurs group
(ROÑO RENRAKU KAIGI)
formed in Diet under JCP sponsor
ship. Participated in organiza-
tion of Democracy Protection League.
Labor-Farmer Movement Relier So-
B
Extends relief and financial aid
ciety (RONO UNDO KYUEN KAI)
to Leftist groups and individuals.
Labor-Farmer Reporters Society
D
Maintains liaison among Leftist re-
(RONO KISHA KAI)
porters; serves as channel for Com-
munist propaganda.
Labor Investigation Council
B
Labor problems study group expecting
(RODO CHOSA KYOGIKAI)
affiliation with MINSHUSHUGI YOGO
DO.EI, incorporating into JCP ."when
people's government is established."
League of Korean Merchants in
B
Affiliate of the Korean League;
Japan (ZAI NIPPON CHOSEIJIN
promotes the interests of the
SHOGYO REMMEI)
Korean merchants in Japan.
League of Koreans Residing in
B
Promotes interests of Koreans in
Japan (ZAI NIPPON CHOSEMJIN
Japan under Comnunist supervision;
REMMEI) (CHOREN)
sponsors Leftist activities among
Koreans.
League of Korean War Victims in
D
Affiliate of the Korean League;
Japan (ZAI NIPPON SENSAISHA DOLEI)
promotes welfare of the Korean war
victims.
Liaisón Council of Labor Unions,
A
Cormunist-sponsorer liaison coun-
National (ZENKOKU RODO KUT I.I
cil composed of representatives
REMRAKU YOGIKAI) (ZENROREN)
from all Communist dominated and
Communist ifluenced labor unions.
Liberal Discussion Society
D
Holds lccture and discussion meet-
(JIYU KOI  KAI).
ings for enlightment of members.
Liberal Lawyers Group (JIYU
B
Provides legal aid and advice to
HOSO DAN)
Leftist groups and "victims of
oppression."
Liberal Movie People's Group
B
Dissumin tes Comnunist ideas on
(JIYU EIGAJIN SHUDAN)
movies thru conducting classes,
research anc discussions.
Life Insurance Workers Unions,
D
National labor union of life in-
A1l Japan Federation of (NCIU)
surance company workers.
(ZEN NIPPON STDEI HOKEN JU-YOIN
KUMIAI R NGOY I) (ZEN S.IHO)
Livelihood Cooperative Union
B
Assists cistribution of daily nec-
(SEIK TSU EYODO KULI.I)
essities thru cooperative buying.
Livelihood Protection Legue
B
igitates against taxation by stir-
(SEIK.:TSU YOGO DOMEI)
ring up laborers and housewives.
Lumber Industry orkers Union, All C
National labor union of workers in
Japan (NCIU) (2EN NIPPON LOXUZAI
lumber and woodworking industries.
SANGYO RODO KUMI.I) (ZEN HOUSAN)
AFP -6

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX
EXTENT OF
NAME
JCP INFLUENCE
NATUREO
Marx-Lenin Research Institute
A
Conducts research
(MARUYUSU-RENIN KENT YUSHO)
and produces publica
Marxist ideology.
Materialism Research Institute
D
Research into materialism and
(YUIBUTSURON KENKYUSHO)
lication of reports thereon.
Medical Treatment Democratization
C
National organization with aims of
National Council (IRYO MINSHUKA
socializing mecicine, serving as
ZE. KOKU KAIGI)
"people's front" in medical field.
Metal Industry Workers Union,
A
National labor union of workers
All Japan (NCIU). (ZEN NIPPON
in iron and steel machine
KINZOKU RODO KUMIAI) (KINZOKU)
tool and rolling stock industries.
Motion Ficture and Theatrical
C
National labor union of workers in
Workers Union, All Japan (NCIU)
motion picture industry and the-
(ZEN NIPPON EÍGA NGEKI RODO
atrical profession.
KUMIAI) (NICHI EIEN)
National Congress of Industrial
A
Communist-sponsored association of
Unions (ZEN NIPPON SANGYOBLTSU
labor unions organized on an in-
RODO KUMIAI KAIGI)(SANBETSU)
dustrial basis.
National Council of Cement Indus-
D
National federation of cement co-
try "orkers Unions (ZENKOKU
pany workers unions.
SEMENTO RODO KUMIAI KYOGIKAI)
National Council of Government
C
National Council of labor unions
Workers Unions (ZENKOKU KANKO
of employees of Government ministries
SHOKUIN RODO KUMIAI KYOGIKAI)
other than communications, trans-
(ZENKANRO)
portation and finance.
National Educators League of
B
Korean League affiliate; dissemi-
Koreans in Japan (ZAI NIPFON
nates Communist propaganda among
CHOS NJIN ZENKOKU KYOIKU SHA
the Koreans through its school.
DOMEI)
Nat'l Federation of Repatriates
E
Locates work end housing for re-
Organizations (HIKIAGESHA DAN-
patriates.
TAI ZANKOKU RUNGOKAI)
National Finance Office Workers
. C
National labor union of employees
Union. (ZENKOKU ZAIMU SHOKUIN
of the Finance Ministry other than
RODO KUMIAI) (ZENZAI)
those in Mint, Printing and Mono-
poly Bureaus.
National League of Ammonium Sul-
D
National federation of workers in
fate Industry orkers Unions
ammonium sulfate (fertilizer) in-
(ZENKOKU RYUAN KOGYO RODO KUMIAI
dustry.
RENMEI)
National Liaison Council of Govern- C
Liaison group composed of repre
ment and Public Workers Unions
sentatives from eight major Govern-
(ZENKOKU KANKOCHO RODO KUMIAI
ment workers unions, for purpose
RENRAKU KYOGIKAI) (ZNKANKO)
of pressing demands and coordina-
ting activities of these unions.
National Repatriates League
E
Extends aid in solving proble
(ZENKOKU HIKIAGESHA REMMEI)
repatriates
APP-7

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX
EXTENT OF
NAME
JCP INFIUENCE
NATURE OF ACTIVITY
Nat'l Student Self-Gov't Federa-
C
Makes protests against tuition
tion (ZENKOKU GAKUSEI JICHI REN-
raise, board of regents plan for
GOKAI)
colleges and "reactionary op-
pression."
New "Haiku" Poets Lea ue (SHIN
B
Develops "progressive haiku"
HAIKUJIN RELEI)
poetry through criticism of mem-
bers verses and lectures.
New Japan Doctors League (SHIN
D
Democratic Culture League affili-
NIPPON ISH,REMMEI)
ate; aims to abolish feudalism in
medical profession, promote "demo-
cratization."
New Japan Literature Soviety
B
Promotes proletarian literature
(SHIN NIPPON BUNGAKU KAI)
thru discussion meetings and talks
by Communist authors.
New Japan Poets Ass'n (SHI
B
Promotes class-conscious "tanka"
NIPPON KAJIN KYOKAI)
poetry through criticism of mem-
bers' works, publications and
lectures.
New Japan Women's League (SHIN
C
Women's group infiltrated by Com-
NIPPON FUJIN DOMEI)
munists.
New Musicians Group (SHIN
B
Extends music appreciation to
ONGAKUKA ŚHUDAN)
"masses" and creates proletarian
music; gives concerts.
New Theatrical People's Ass'n
B
Promotes proletarian drama through
(SHIN ENGEKIJIN KYOKAI)
publications, liaison with labor
unions, furnishing scripts and
technical advice.
Northern Friends Society (HOKUYU
B
Conducts liaison with Soviet oc-
KAI)
cupied territory, smugglers weapons
and information.
Northern Star Commercial Co.
B
Imports Soviet films for showing
(HOKUSEI SHOJI KABUSHIKI KAISHA)
in Japan.
Occupation Forces Workers Union,
C
National labor union of Occupation
All Japan, (NCIU) (ZEN NIPPON
Forces' Japanese employees.
SHINCHUGUN YOIN RODO KUMIAI) (ZEN
SHIN RO)
Okinawan League (OKINAWA R MEI) E
Promotes interests of Okinawans
in Japan.
Osaka Fine Arts. Theater (OSAKA
B
Presents Communist propaganda
GEIJUTSU ZA)
through its plays.
Pacific Problems Research Soc'y
E
Operates library for members, holds
(TAIHEIYO MONDAI CHOSAKAI)
lecture meetings.
People's Emancipation League
D
Struggles for removal of discrimi-
(JIMMIN KAIHO REMMEI)
nation against "ETA" caste.
i0
APP - 8

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.99)
.APPENDIX
EXTENT OF
NAME
JCP INFLUENCE
NATURE OF ACTLV
Printing and Publishing Workers
C
National labor union of
Union, All Japan (NCIU) (ZEN
printing and publishing indu
NIPPON INSATSU SHUPPAN RODO KUMIAI)
(ZEN.INSATSU)
Progressive Citzens Club (SHDPO- C
Composed largely of Communists and
TEKI SHIMIN KURABU)
Socialists; aims to increase "de
cratic influence through efforts of
progressive citizens."
Progressive.Troupe (ZENSUINZA)
A
New-school Kabuki troupe which
joined the JCP en masse in early
Mar 49.
Puka Puppet Show Troupe (PUKU
B
Disseminates Leftist ideas by means
NINGYO GEKIDAN)
of its puppet plays.
Russian Culture Research Society
B
Holds lectures on culture and
(ROSHIA BUNKA KENKYU KAI)
classes in the Fussian language.
Russian Literature Union (ROSHIA
B
Facilitates translation of Russian
BUNGAKUSHA KUMIAI)
literature by helping obtain trans-
lation rights, etc.
Seamen's Union, All Japan (ZEN
D
National labor union of seamen.
NIPPON KAIIN KUM IAI) ( ZEN KAIGUNI)
Shinkyo Dramatic Troupe (SHINKYO
Puts on Leftist and Russian plays
GEKIDAN)
before labor unions and cultural
groups.
Shipbuilding orkers Union, All
D
National labor union of employees
Japan (ZEN NIPPON ZOSEN RODO
of shipbuilding companies.
KUMIAI) ( ZEN SEN)
Sino-Japanese Cultural Research
B
Research and Leftist propaganda
Institute (CHUNICHI BUNKA KEN-
about China.
KYUSHO)
Society for Romanization of Japa-
Encourages widespread use of Roman
nese (NIPPON ROMAJI KAI)
letters in place of Japanese char-
acters.
Society to Protect Japanese Cul-
B
Promotes "democratic racial front"
ture (NIPPON BUNKA MAMORU KAI)
activities.
Soviet Area Repatriates Liveli-
B
Provides aid and propaganda to re
hood Protection League (SCREN
patriates from Soviet territory.
CHIKU HIKIACESHA SEIKATSU YOGO
DOLEI)
Soviet Culture Admirers Society
B
Holds meetings to see and hear
(SOVIETO BUNKA AIKO KAI)
about the Soviet Union.
Soviet Culture Ass'n (SOVIETO
B
Disseminates information about the
PUNKA KYOKAI)
USSR and its culture through lec-
tures and publications.
Soviet Research Ass'n (SOVIETO
B
Publicizes information favorable to
KENKYUSHA KYOKAI)
USSR through study meetings and
magazines.
APP - 9

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX
EXTENT OF.
NAME
JCP INFLUENCE
NATURE OF ACTIVITY
Stage Arts Institute (BUTAI
D
Instructs dramatic techniques
GEIJUTSU GAKUIN)
State Medical Workers Union,
C
National labor union of hospital
All Japan (NCIU) (ZEN NIPPON
workers, including doctors and 
KOKUT ITSU IRYO JUGYOIN KUMIAI)
nurses.
(ZEN I RO)
Unemployed League (SHITSUCYOSHA
D
Affiliate of the Korean League;
DOMEI)
promotes interests of the unem-
ployed Koreans in Japan.
Vanguard Art Society (ZENEI
D
Develops proletarian art through
BIJUTSU KAI)
exhibits, talks and publications.
Water-Level (Equal Rights)
C
Represents and protects interest
Society (SUIHEISHA)
'of the ETA ("untouchable" class).
Women's Democratic Club (FUJIN
D
Holds lectures, concerts and pro
MINSHU KUR'BU)
vides employment and domestic ad-
visory service.
"omen's Emancipation Society
B
Auxiliary of NCIU, does relief wo
(FUJIN KAIHO NO KAI)
and propaganda through talks.
World Economy Research Institute
B
Conducts reséarch into economic
(SEKAI KEIZAI KENKYUSHO)
affairs and publicizes them in re
ports to selected clientel.
Youth and Women's Construction
A
Action squad organization existin
COrPS (SEINEN FUJIN KANSETSU TAI)
within All Communication "orkers
Union.
*****
Attention is invited to the fact that in many cases.more than one
translation is possible and equally correct. The choice is determined
by the individual translator. CIs G-2 has standardized as many of these
translations as possible for the sake of consistency and clarity in an
attempt to utilize the English word that most nearly describes the type
of organization.
Following are a few examples of multiple choice:
ROMAJI
TRANSLATIONS
CIS STANDARD
JIYO
Liberal
Liberal
Free
KAIGI
Congress
Congress
Council
Conference
Convention
REMMEI
League
League
Council
Conference
APP- 10

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.98)
0
APPENDIX
INDEX OF J/ PANES ROMAJI NAMES
ROMAJI
TRANSIATION
AKATSUKI INSATSU KABUSHIKI K/ISHA
Dawn Printing Company
PUTAI GGIJUTSU GAKUIN
Stage Arts Institute
CHISHIKI-JIN NO KAI
Intelligentsia Society
CHOSEN BUNGAKU KAI
Korean Literature Association
CHOSEN GEIJITSU DOSHIKAI
Korean Artists' Association
CHOSN KAGAKU GIJUTSU KYOKI
Korean Technical Science Associ-
ation
CHOSEN KAIHO UNDC KYUTN KAI
Korean Liberation Relief Society
CHOSEN KEIZAI KENKYUSHO
Korean Economics Research Institute
CHOSEN KYODO KUMIAI
Korean Cooperative Union
CHUGCKU KENKYUSHO
China Research Institute
CHOSEN SANGYO KEIZ'I KENKYUSHO
Korean Industrial and Economic
Institute
CHOSENJIN GYOSHUBETSU KUNI'I
Korean Federation of Industrial
RENGOKAI
Unions
CHUKYO CHIKU HIKI'GESHA K/.I
Chinese Communist Area Repatriates
Soviety
CHUNICHI BUNK' K NKYUSHO
Sino-Japanese Cultural Research
Institute
FUJIN KAIHO NO KAI
Women's Emancipation Society
FUJIN MINSHU KUR.BU
Women's Democratic Club
GAKUSEI SOVI TO KENKYU SAKURU
Fed'n of Student Soviet Research
RENGOKAI
Circles
HIKIAGESHA DANTAI ZANKCKU RENGO-
Nat'l Federation of Repatriates
KAI
Organizations
HOKUSEI SHOJI KABUSHIKI KAISHA
Northern Star Commercial Co.
HOKUYU KAI
Northern Friends' Society
IRYO MINSHUK! ZENKOKU KAIGI
Medical Treatment Democratization
National Council
JIDO BUNGAKUSH' KYCK!I
Juvenile Literature riters Ass!n
JIMMIN K IHO REMEI
People's Emancipation League
JIRITSU ENGEKIDAN KYOGIKAI
Independent Dramatic Troupes
Council
JIYU EIGAJIN SHUDAN
Liberal ovie People's Group
APP - 11

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX
INDEX OF JAPAÑESE ROMAJI NAMES
ROMAJI
TRANSLATION
JIYU HOSO DAN
Liberal Lawyers Group
JIYU KONWA KAI
Liberal Discussion Society
KANA MOJI KAI
"Kana" Script Society
KANSAI CHUGOKU BUNKA DANTAI REMMEI
Kansai Chinese Cultural Groups
League
KAWAKAMI KAI
Kawakami Society
KOKUSAI SEIJI KENKYUKAI
Internat'l Politics Research
Society
KOKUTETSU RODO KUMIAI
Government Railway Workers Union
KYOIKU BOEI DOMEI
Education Defense Union
KYOIKU MINSHUKA KYOGIKAI
Education Democratization Council
MARUKUSU-RENIN KENKYUSHO
Marx-Lenin Research Institute
MINSHU EIGA NO KAI
Democratic Motion Picture Society
MINSHU EIYO KYOKAI
Democratic Nutrition Ass'n
MINSHU HOIKU REMMEI
Democratic Nurture League
MINSHU KAMI-SHIBAI SHUDAN
Democratic Paper-Play Group
MINSHU SHOKO KAI
Democratic Commerce and Industry
Society
MINSHUSHUGI GAKUSEI DOMEI
Democratic Students League
MINSHUSHGI KAGAKUSHA KYOKAI
Democratic Scientists Ass'n
MINSHUSHUGI YOGO DOMEI
Democratic Protection League
MINSHU YUSHI IINKAI
Democratic Loan Committee
NIPPON ANAKISUTO REMMEI
Japan Anarchist League
NIPPON BIJUTSU KAI
Japan Fine Arts Society
NIPPON BUNKA KYODO KUMIAI
Japan Cultural Cooperative Union
NIPPON BUNKA MAMORU KAI
Society to Protect Japanese Culture
NIPPON DOGA KAI
Japan Juvenile Art Society
NIPPON EIGAJIN DOMEI
Japan Motion-Picture-Men's League
NIPPON ESPERANTO GAKKAI
Japan Esperanto Study Society
NIPPON FUKUIN DOSHIKAI
Japan Demobilized Comrades Ass'n
NIPPON GENDAI ONGAKU KAI
Japan Modern Music Society
APP - 12

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX
INDEX OF JAPANÈSE ROMAJI NAMES
ROMAJI
TRANSLATION
NIPPON JANARISUTO REMMEI
Japan Journalists League
NIPPON KIKANSHI KYOKAI
Japan Organ Publications Ass'n
NIPPON KYOSHOKUIN KUMIAI
Japan Teachers Union
NIPPON MINSHU FUJIN KYOGIKAI
Japan Democratic Women's Council
NIPPON MINSHUSHUGI BUNKA REMMEI
Japan Democratic Culture League
NIPPON MINSHUSHUGI KYOIKU KYOKAI
Japan Democratic Education Ass'n
NIPPON NOMIN KUMIAI
Japan Farmers Union
NIPPON ROAJI KAI
Society for Romanization of Japa-
nese
NIPPON SEIJI KEIZAI KENKYUSHO
Japan Political Economy Research
Inst.
NIPPON SEINEN KAIGI
Japan Youth Congress
NIPPON SEINEN KYOSAN DONEI
Japan Young Communist League
NIPPON SHITETSU RODO KUMIAI
General Federation of Japan Private
Railway Workers Uniona
SORENGO KAI
NIPPON TANKO RODO KUMIAI RENGOKAI
Japan Federation of Coal Miners
Unions
NISSO BUNKA RENRAKU KYOKAI
Japan-Soviet Cultural Relations
Ass'n
NISSO SHINZEN KYOKAI
Japan-Soviet Friendship Association
Okinawan League
OKINAWA REMMEI
Finance Ministry Three Operating.
OKURA SANGENCHO RODO KUMIAI
Bureaus Workers Union
Osaka Fine Arts Theater
OSAKA GEIJUTSU ZA
Puku Puppet Show Troupe
PUKU NINGYO GEKIDAN
Labor Investigation Council
RODO CHOSA KYOGIKAI
Labor-Farmer Reporters Society
RONO KISHA KAI
Labor-Farmer Liaison Council
RONO RENRAKU KAIGI
Labor-Farmer Movement Relief
RONO UNDO KYUEN KAI
Society
Russian Literature Union
ROSHIA BUNGAKUSHA KUMIAI
Russian Culture Research Society
ROSHIA BUNKA KENKYU KAI
Livelihood Cooperative Union
SEIKATSU KYODO KUMIAI
APP - 13

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX
INDEX OF JAPÁNESE ROMAJI NAMÉS
ROMAJI
TRANSIATION
SEIKATSU YOGO DOMEI
Livelihood Protection League
SEINEN FUJIN KENSETSU TAI
Youth and Women's Construction
Corps
SEKAI KEIZAI KENKYUSHO
World Economy Research Institute
SHAKAI KAGAKU KENKYU KAI RENGO-
Federation of Social Science Re-
KAI
search Societies
SHIMPO-TEKI SHEAIN KURABU
Progressive Citizens Club
SHIN ENGEKIJIN KYOKAI
New Theatrical People's Ass'n
SHIN HAIKUJIN REMMEI
New "Haiku" Poets League
SHINKYO GEKIDAN
Shinkyo Dramatic Troupe
SHIN NIPPON BUNGAKU KAI
New Japan Literature Society
SHIN NIPPON FUJIN DOMEI
New Japan Women's League
SHIN NIPPON ISHI RELMEI
New Japan Doctors League
SHIN NIPPON KAJIN KYOKAI
New Japan Poets Ass'n
SHIN ONGAKUKA SHUDAN
New Musicians Group
SHITSUGYOSHA DOMEI
Unemployed League
SOREN CHIKU HIKIAGESHA SEIKATSU
Soviet Area Repatriates Liveli-
YOGO DOMEI
hood Protection League
SOVIETO BUNKA AIKO KAI
Soviet Culture Admirers Club
SOVIETO BUNKA KYOKAI
Soviet Cuiture Ass'n
SOVIETO KENKYUSHA KYCKAI
Soviet Research Ass'n
SUIHEISHA
Water-Level Society
TAIHEIYO MONDAI CHOSAKAI
Pacific Problems Research Soc'y
TOKYO TO RODO KUMIAI RENGOKAI
Federation of Tokyo Metropolitan
Workers Unions
YUIBUTSURON KENKYUSHO
Materialism Research Institute
ZAI NIPPON CHOSEN BUNKA DANTAK
Cultural Federation of Korean
RENGOKAI
Residents in Japan
ZAI NIPPON CHOSEN GAKUSEI DOMEI
Korean Students League in Japan
ZAI NIPPON CHOSEN MINSHU JOSEI
Korean Democratic Women's League
DOMEI
ZAI NIPPON CHOSEN MINSHU SEINEN
Korean Democratic Youth League
DOMEI (MINSEI)
APP - 14

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX
INDEX OF JAPANESE ROMAJI NAMES
NAMES
TRANSLATION
ZAI NIPPON CHOSENJIN REMMEI.
League of Koreans Residing in Jap
(CHOREN)
ZAI NIPPON CHOSENJIN SHOGYO REMMEI
League of Korean Merchants in Japan
ZAI NIPPON CHOSENJIN ZENKOKU KYO-
National Educators League of
IKU SHA DOMEI
Koreans in Japan
ZAI NIPPON SENSAISHA DMEI
League of Korean War Victims in
Japan
ZAI NIPPON CHOSENJIN RODO KUMIAI
Federation of Korean Labor Unions
SODOMEI
in Japan
ZENEI BIJUTSU KAI
Vanguard Art Society
ZENKOKU GAKUSEI JICHI RENGOKAI
Nat'l Student Self-Gov't Federation
ZENKOKU HIKIAGESHA REMMEI
National Repatriates League
ZENKOKU KANKOCHO RODO KUMIAI
National Liaison Council of Govern-
RENRAKU KYOGIKAI (ZENKANKO)
ment and Public Workers Unions
ZENKOKU KANKO SHOKUIN RODO KUMIAI
National Council of Govemment
·KYOGIKAI
Workers Unions
ZENKOKU RODO KUMIAI RENRAKU
Liaison Council of Labor Unions,
KYOGIKAI
National
ZENKOKU RYUAN KOGYO RODO KUMIAI
National League of Ammonium Sulfate
REMMEI
Industry Workers Unions
ZENKOKU SEMENTO RODO KUMIAI KYO-
National Council of Cement Industry
GIKAI
Workers Unions
ZEN TEISHIN RODO KUMIAI
All Communications Workers Union
(NCIU)
ZEN NIPPON DENKI KOGYO RODO
Electrical Manufacturing Workers
KUMIAI (ZEN DENKO)
Union, All Japan (NCIU)
ZEN NIPPON DENKI SANGYO RODO
Electric Industry Workers Union
KUMIAI (DENSAN)
All Japan (NCIU)
ZEN NIPPON EIGA ENGEKI RODO
Motion Picture and Theatrical Work-
KUMIAI
ers Union, All Japan (NCIU)
ZEN NIPFON INSATSU SHUPPAN RODO
Printing and Publishing Workers
KUMIAI
Union, All Japan (NCIU)
ZEN NIPPON JICHI DANTAI RODO
General Federation of Autonomous
KUMIAI SORENGOKAI
Government "orkers Unions
ZEN NIPPON JIDOSHA SANGYO RODO
Automobile Industry Workers Union,
KUMIAI
All Japan
Chemical Industry Workers Union,
ZEN NIPPON KAGAKU SANGYO RODO
KUMIAI
All Japan, (NCIU)
APP - 15

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.98)
APPENDIX
No.40
INDEX OF JAFANESE ROAJI NAMES
NAMES
TRANSLATION
ZEN NIPPON KAIIN KUMIAI
Seamen's Union, All Japan
ZEN NIPPOF KINZCKU PCDO KULIAI
Metal Industry Workers Union,
All Japan (NCIU)
ZEN NIPPON KOKURITSU IRYO JUGYOIN
State Medical "orkers Union,
KUMIAI
All Japan (NCIU)
ZCN NIPPON KO AN CDO KUMTAI
Federation of Harbor Workers
DOMEI
Unions, All Japan (NCIU)
ZEN NIPPCN MOKUZAI SANGYO RODO
Iumber Industry Vorkers Union,
KUMIAI
All Japan (NCIU)
ZEN NJPPON SANGYOFTTSU RODO KU-
National Congress of Industrial
MIAI KAIGI (SANBETSU)
Unions
ZEN NIPPON SEINEI HCKTN JUGYOIN
Life Insurance Vorkers Union,
KUFMIAI RENGOKAI
A1l Japan Federation of (NCIU)
ZEN NIPPON SHINCHUGUN YCIN RODO
Occupation Forces "orkers Union,
KUMIAI
All Japan (NCIU)
ZEN NIPPON SHOKURYO SANGYO RCDO
Foodstuff Industry Workers Union,
KUMIAI
All Japan (NCIU)
ZEN.NIPPON TSUUN RCDO KUMTAI
Express Company Workers Union,
All Japan (NCIU)
ZENKOKU ZADU SHOKUIN RODO KULIAI
National Finance Cffice Vorkers
(2ENZAI)
Union
ZEN -NIPPON ZOS N RODO FUNIAI
Shipbuilding 'orkers Union, All
Japan
ZENSHINZA
Progressive Troupe
NOTE
The foregoing list was revised in Apr 49 frem the earlier
index arpearing in CIS Periodical Summary No. 34, 15 Nov 48.
The Japanese have a great prcclivity for establishing socie-
ties and later re-naming or reorganizing them by merger with
groups of similar eims. Smaller organizations are often prone
to disband as the members lose their first burst of enthusiasm.
Internal friction is another attribute of Japanese groups caus-
ing frequent changes by which one crganization splits into two
or more new groups subsequently assuming new names. "ith the
currently accelerated Communist programs, particularly in the
labor and cultural fields, it can be anticipat d that new Left-
ist groups will spring up in the coming months.
For reasons outlined above it is obvious that this list
will be subject to frequent alterations. . "hen significant
changes so warrant, another revised index will be published in
the CIS Periodical Summary.
APP - 16

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.95)
RM/R FE
R NO. 
TO
: NA - Mr. Bishop
DATE: June 8, 1949
MInS
FROM
: NA - Mr. Lory
S/P-2mAaies
SUBJECT:
Some Recent Communiet Developments in Japan.
NA-file
There has been a sizable number of Social-Demooratic labor
leaders who have deserted the party and joined the JCP follow-
1ng the Communist successes in the election of January 23, 1949.
The bulk of converaione have occurred in Aomori, Iwate, Nagano
and Yomanashi prefectures. However, it 1s reported that 600
Social-Democrats in OkawaramachiyKyoto Prefecture joined the
JCP. It has been announced that 28 officials in the National
OC/R
This Document Must Be Returned to
Communications Workers Union, 16 officials in the Government
Railway Workers Union, 12 officials in the All-Japan Coal Or
cers Union and 8 officials in the National Metal Workers Union
have joined the Communist Party. It is expected that as long
as the Social Democrats remein split over poligies, an inoreas-
ing number of its membera will join the JCP.
The JCP realizing that children indoctrinated with Gempunist
ideology are potential Party workers has sterted publishingithe
0
children's edition of "Akahata" called the "Friendship Newst"
This weekly publication 1s a frank attempt to convert children
B
of the 8-15 age group to Communism. Tokuda, Secretary-General
of the JCP, appealed to the nationalistic instincts of Japanese
9
children by writing in the first issue that Japan is "now being
I
sold to foreign capitalists" and that the JCP is fighting for
9
Nippon's "independence, peace and freedom". Initial ciroulationy
1s claimed to be 30,000.(2)
6
The Japan Communist Party has intensified and broadened
its tax reduction campaign, inaugurated last year, until it has
reached nation wide proportions. The JCP is gaining politioal
strength by championing a cause that has a wide popular appeal
with a large majority of the Japanese people. The Party has
issued directives which encourage the taxpayers to revolt against
payment of high taxes. This campaign is also supported through
various front organizations which bitterly denounce the govern-
ment tax policies. Tax officials in some instances are intimi-
dated by mobs of people who confront these officials with a long
Dc  lit of demands to reduce taxes. The Communists threaten to ext
894,000
pole these tax officials as corrupt individuals if their demand
Anneler not met. Every effort is being made to gain support of ther
medium and small businessman. The JCP has established tax
gonsultation offices especially designed to attract small busif
nesmen where instructione are given on procedures that will
COLL
(i) GHQ, Far East Command, Intelligence
reduceS
Summary, Mar 29, 1949, p. 6.
(2) GHQ, Far East Command, Intelligence
Summary, May 6, 1949, p. 6.
工
SECRET
H

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-2 -
reduce the businessman's tax payments to the government. Con-
as a result of the successful efforts of the JCP to infiltrate
into the NationaFinance Workers Union. With approximately 80%
of this organization's 50,000 members concerned with tax col-
lection any control of this union by the JCP places the Cemmies
The JCP is successfully infiltrating into the medical field.
The Japan Communist Party Medical League has recently been or-
ganized in Tokyo with the primary objective of converting to
Gommuniem as many persons as possible in the medical profession.
Plans call for each JCP Distriot Committee to organize a chapter
of the JCP Medical League. One of the most important events in
the Communist Party's program to influence Japanese medical
activities is the organization of a nation wide Medical Treat-
ment Democratization National Council. This front organization
cla1ms more than 250 "democratic" organizations as members.
The standing committee director is Dr. Ueyama Ryozo, a promin-
ent Party member doctor from Tokyo who is a strong advocate of
the Soviet type of medical administration for Japan. Communists
are now successfully infiltrating into the All Japan Medical
Workers Union to the extent that a majority of the top officers
are Party members. Two of the three vice chairmen and the dir-
ector of the union's headquarters are all JCP members. A small,
yet effective Communist front organization is the New Japan
Doctors League composed of 6oo Communist or pro-Communist doctors
and 350 leftist medical students. Local Communist organizations
throughout Japan have successfully infiltrated 50 Japanese hos-
pitals. Patient Leagues are being established at the instiga-
tion of JCP workers. Two of the largest Patient Leagues have a
total membership of more than 70,000.
In the field of maritime activities, the JCP has adopted
a course of action quite different from the methods used in
other important labor groups. As the result of meeting with
strong opposition in their attempts to infiltrate into the All-
Japan Seamen'ε Union, Japanese Communists have organized their
own union, the Sea Communist Party. This group carries on an
intensive educational program among its members while on board
ship. The Sea Communist Party publishes the "Seamen's Flag",
e non periodical newspaper. It is believed that members of
this organization are the most logical agents for JCp liaison
with the Far East Cominform.
(5)
The
(3) GHQ, Far East Command, Periodical Summary,
April 15, 1949, P. 3; May 8, p.6.
(4) GHQ, Far East Command, Periodical Summary, May 15, 1949
p. 19 (Special Articles Section)
(5) GHQ, Far East Command, Periodical Summary,
Maroh 15, 1949, p.23 (Special Articles Section)

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.98)
SECREI
- 3-
The following figures reveal some interesting information
regarding the occupations of 50,O00 registered JCP members
regularly paying ques out of a reported total membership in
Japan of/60,000. (6)
Occupation
Number
Percentage
Civil service workers
13,710
27.4
Industrial workers
8,025
16.
Businessmen
5,660
11.3
Communications workers
5,027
10.
Students
3,690
7.4
Printing and publishing workers
3,241
6.4
Medical workers
3,093
6.2
Farmers
3,974
5.8
Fishermen
1,682
3.3
Musicians
721
1.4
Writers
200
.4
Primary, high school, and
college teachers
183
.4
Artists
171
.3
Ac tore
89
.2
Lawyers
38
.1
Miscellaneous workers
258
.5
It is significant that approximately 75% of JCP members may be
classified as white collar workers from whom come potential
leaders of Japan.
Another possible index to the complexion of JCP may be re-
vealed in the following figures which classify by profeasions
new Party members in an unidentified Party district.
(7)
Laborers
35%
Small Businessmen
13%
Salaried Employees
13%
Intellectuals
21%
Others
18%
Half of the recruits were 20-29 years of age; 39 per cent were
30-39; and 11 per cent were 40-49.
About 43 per cent of the new members indicated that they
had joined the party because it is the "supporter of the poor
and laborers." Another 29 per cent said they had joined the
party for its "honesty" and because it "works for the people
at the risk of its own life." While 18 per cent thought the
Communists would bring recovery and independence to Japan,
only a small number joined because they believed abstraotly
in Communiem.
SEOM
From
(6) GHQ, Far East Command, Intelligence
Summary, Jan. 13, 1949, p.4
() GHQ, Far East Command, 'Intelligence Summary,
"arch 15, 1049, B.6.

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.94)
SECRET
-4-
From the above statistics it may be reasonable to assume
that the JCP is conoentrating its efforts on converting white
collar, rather than industrial, workers, believing tand logi-
cally so) that the communists can seize power in Japan more
quickly and easily by winning over that segment of the nation
which produces leadership.
7a~
FE:NA:HLory:aw
SECRT

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.90)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
MB
aliDu
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
AVISIONY
NA
Astien Assigned to
Urrioe of
OTTHEAST ASTANPAFFAIRS
:AL EASTERN AFFAIRS
Astion Takon
Juje e949
201949
No atian
PIRECTOR
prrent of State
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
to or Aotion
N of Officer
Dircotion to DO/R
894.00B/6-1649
SECRET FUE
Ju:& 1949
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.96)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1xπ
6S
No。 431
HEASTithiféaStates Political Adviser
for Japan
11949
RESTRICTED
Tokyo, July 5, 1949.
PARTMENT OF STAT
REC 'D
JUL 11
Action Assigned to
ACTION
FE ENC
INFO
DCR
Dote c
OLI ENC
The Honorable
POS ENC
The Secretary of State,
EUR/X
bol_NA
Washington.
N
Sir:
D
tehe
894.00B/7-5
I have the honor to transmit five copies of a
1/
statement made by General MacARTHUR on July 4, 1949,
in connection with the Independence Day celebration
XR
46
by American forces in Japan.
The statement was primarily devoted to attacks on
894.
communism, particularly conmunist activities in Japan.
According to General MacArthur, the influence of American
democracy on the Japanese people faces two challenging
tests: its adaptability to the unusual traditions,
culture, and customs of the Japanese, and its power of
49
resistance to the appeals of communism. In General
MacArthur's view "both tests have shown conclusive results,"
for the concepts of American life have found no barrier
to their assimilation by the Japanese and have at the same
time proved "an impregnable front against communism's
most eggressive assaults."
General MacArthur's statement reviews the development
of communism over the past century from early Marxian
socialism to a system of violence end terrorism by which
minority elements through "stealth, infiltration, "and
deceit" seize political power from the majority ruling
under constitutional processes. Communism has thus
emerged as "a movement of national and international
outlawry without true philosophic basis which offers
nothing but ultimate enslavement tthose segments of
the human race which become its prey." That communism
should be able to advance with the support of those
freedoms it would destroy "is one of the paradoxes of
this age and poses the question as to whether such
C
movements should longer be accorded the validity and
7
FILED
sanction and the protection of law."
2
6
White
49
RESTRICTED
0
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R PILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF AOTION TAKEN.

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.98)
no. 431, July 5,
1949.
RESTHIOTED
-2-
While General Macarthur has expressed the belief
that the great majority of the Japanese are unmoved by
communist propaganda and will remain an effective bulwark
against the communist advance, the statement's pointed
suggestion that question arises as to whether it may not
become necessary to outlaw communism will unquestionably
provoke considerable discussion in Japan. Already
suggestions have been made in and outside the governnent
that the Japan Communist Party be outlawed. Those advooat-
ing such a step will be materielly encouraged by the
Supreme Sommander's statement. In its issue of July 5,
Yomiuri  evoted a lengthy editorial to the questions
raised by General MacArthur's statement. Poining to th
Japan Comnunist Party as the "only militaristic organization"
in an otherwise disarmed and demilitarized Japan, Youiuri
expressed the view that the problem of a comuunist party
in Japan cannot be disregarded any longer, notwithstanding
the political guarantees it enjoys under the Constitution.
An editorial in the J . 5 issue of Nihon Keizai also
took up this subject and concluded that the future of
the Japan Communist Party will henceforth be determined
by whether or not it continues to adhere to principles
of force.
Akahata, the communist deily, has so far ignored
the Supreme Conmander's statement, devoting its editorial
of July 5 tc the necessity to increase the present labor
offensive against the government of "mad dog Yoshida".
Respectfully yours.
Cloyee K. Huston
Charge d'Affaires ad interim
aA.
Enclosure:
Five copies of General
LacArthur's Fourth of
July Statement, Nippon
Times, July 5, 1949.
Parchment Mat to Department.
610,1/040
CNSpinks:mhp
RESTRICTED

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch no. 431 dat
July 5, 1949 from the United Stato
Pelitical Adviser for Japan, Tokyo
on the subject, "General MacArthur
Fourth of July Statement."
NIPPON TIMES:
July 5, 1949
Text of Statement
The full text of Gen. Mac-
The results are as conclusive
Providence and rejects the
Arthur's July 4th statement
follows:
as the reasons are sound. All
segments of the human race,
regardless of ethnological, geo-
moral precepts and theologleat
teachings which support the
year is.a day for, deep and in-
July 4th in this as in every
tions, are fundamentally alike
graphical or cultural considera-
higher sensibilities of the
human race. As befits the
spirational reflection by every
in the universal longing for
character of its leadership, its
American whether at home or
high personal dignity, and
sole underlying motive is to
abroad. Not only does it reg-
broader individual opportunity
serve the lust for pérsonal
ister another anniversary in
—qualities which find the
power. To such end it has
the life of our great American
means of development only in
become the rallying media for
the evolution of what we our-
Republic—another milestone in
a society which is free. All
segments recoil from sub-
the malefactor, the corruptible
and the fool, and it welds these
selves proudly term the con-
mitting their lives to the
subnormal elements of society
cepts of Americanism—but of
despotic rule of force and want
into an organized, dísciplined
yet deeper significance it pro-
instead to live by rules found-
and effective force in order,
vides a traditional opportunity
ed upon moral standards and
by the spread of confusion
for Américans of each succes-
spiritual ethics. All reject
unrest and violence to disrupt
sive generation to assay the
despotism in any form, unless
the cohesion and strength in
manner in which they them-
and until it is forced upon
an otherwise orderly society.
selves have discharged the
them.
Communism thus has emerged
stewardship of America's free
The evolution of communism
as a movement of national
institutions passed on in
and international outlawry
servation that opportunity is
particularly arresting. For we.
sacred trust by the generation
just gone.
At this distant point of ob-
a philosophy or pattern of life.
within the present century
gives the measure of its own
weakness and forecast of its
ultimate universal rejection as
Originating in the doctrine of
without true philosophic basis
which offers nothing but ulti-
mate enslavement to: those
segments :ot the human racc
which become its prey. That
stand here, abreast. of the
nistic forces over the heart of
Asia, among a proud race of
threatening sweep of Commu-
extreme Marxian socialism,
which advocated overthrow
of the economic system based
it should continue to advance
its treacherous,, purposes be-
hind the shield of those very
freedoms which to succeed it
people, bereft of faith in past
concepts which brought them
through abolition of both pri-
upon capitalistic management
must destroy, is one of the
paradoxes of this age and
to disaster, who avidly seek
vate property and individual
knowledge and understanding
profit by the exercise of the
poses the question as to wheth-
of those concepts of American-
political power, it was early
er such movements should
longer be accorded the validity,
ism which have been trium-.
found that its adherents could
the sanction and the protec-
phant in the struggle of man-
not coromand the political
kind for a bettermeht of life.
It is a point of vantage from
the program through the
pawer. required to implement
tion of law.
Here in Japan the great
which to view the beneficial
normal, peaceful or constitu-
masses of the people are un-
moved by the line of Com-
impact of those concepts upon
tional process. For the innate
other peoples of the world, for
the contraction of distance by
race proved an effective bar-
common sense of the human
munist propaganda for they
fully comprehend the incipient
freedom of others strategically
the accelerating speed of com-
munication has rendered the
interwoven with the preserva-
tion of that of our own.
American democracy has thus
faccd two challenging tests:
Here in Japan the norm of
rier to the peaceful and suc-
cessful propagation of the
quently was effected with the
nihilism which sought the de-
Marxian doctrine. To breach
terroristic concept known as
this defense a nerger conse-
ment. They are, and will re-
stem its advance east and dis-
threat of the Communist move-
main, an effective bulwark to
courage its advance south. The
American people may feel as-
immutable concepts.of Amer-
sured, moreover, that those
its adaptability where tradition,
struction of existing govern-
ican democracy offered here
culture and custom have been
ments by assassination and
as the means to the betterment
evolved under political, econo-
other violence as the means to
of individual life and a truly
mic and social concepts irre-
seize the political power. Com-
worthwhile collective peace,
concilable with the concept of
munism as presently advanc-
will be cherished, preserved,
human freedom; and its power
éd,: however, neither is based
and advanced as the Japanese
of resistance, despite conditions
upon political philosophy or
people march toward a higher
of political instability, econo-
economic doctrine, nor any
and a more objective destiny
mic impoverishment and social
serious pretense thereof. It
within the fellowship of man.
unrest, to the appeal of the
has emerged as an instrument
Communist propaganda. Both
of force and intimidation to
tests'have shown conclusive
permit minority elements by
résults. The concepts of Amer-
stealth, infiltration and deceit
icanism have found no barrier
to seize the political power
to their assimilation in Oriental
from the majority ruling under
culture or custom and the re-
constitutional process. Atheis-
sulting blend between the best
tic in conception, it repudiates
of the East and the best of the
the existence of an omnipotent
West is proving an impregnable
front against communism's
most aggressive assaults.

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.87)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISIONLOF COMMUNICATIONS A
RECORDS TELEON
0
NLFFAIT
Action Taken o at
JUL15
1949
..IRGR..
Department
PANIMENI OF SIATE
lute o. ..
FROM:
USPOLAD, LOkVc
stionCise
ACTION:FE
NFO
Date 
IC,F
Li18,49
SA/
0/
Rec' :
J175 4, 949. 5:04 p
13.
Y
L7
江
Secretery of tete,
AIN
-15. 1y 8, 1940.
C. June0 a comunist-led prod  t e police
dispuve
stution it T ire, Fukushima Prei oture, aft.
with t e volic e over renovl of i comuniss i : etin
board set up in the stare in fiont u tie   rally
stetion. si uc lice en und seve cul docest: rs vert
injurei in t e free-for-all fi:rs ich reri 1 in
counist sei ule of the Tuire  lice statlou ud the
release of a cor unist party st jer wno hed t a conf ines
by the polic fcllowing the bul stii boerd   ent.
Prefecturul lice Headyuarters sec ired an e.  ency
wobilization of soo policemen al1 brought the  ituat:on
under contro!.
The same diy a comunist-led crowd, curry  red
flags, foroe.. its way into the visito': lle y of the
Fukushima Prefecturel Assembly and throt h e  lsy
demenstretion foroed adjournment cf tie pref. ral
assembly. Four demonstrators vere later arr sd y
the police.
Other disorders are expectod as con,uti led
4L 22 194
agitation ag inst labor dismissel: inercaser. Inn
Interview witn he press on July 1, Prize Li iter
YoshIDa Shigeru expressed deter..intion to e. t every
possible effert to settle current labor dis en
indicuted ucncerh over "a labor offensiió" a cned 
overthrow the o binet. Le expressed the belie? that
such
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This cepy must be returned to DC/R central Mes with metetlen of adlem taken.

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.87)
0'3-175
1:7.949.
on wll s ricusly oriprle Ja an's recovory
I the inf ux of foreign cpit 1. The Prime
fuer ir icated thut his govern.ent hopes
ots er t unemployed instead of resorting
ii eu tres. such jobs, Jowever, can be
nl.hrou  expunding the nation's industrial
Iann tur re uires foreim cs pital. Accordinely
nc
ister pointed out the Jor cnese Government
'erntitude toward labo disordera which
 ent in Japun's abilicy to recover
LU3T0H
050

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.98)
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
No. 451
Tokyo, July 11, 1949.
REC'D
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department use only).
JULX 25
ACTION
Action Takenae
FE-enc
INFO
DCR
s/s-nc
OLI-enc
ice Symbol NA
EURX-enc
POS
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
ITP
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to transmit five copies of an
Files
editorial from the July 8, 1949, issue of Nippon Times
on the communist danger in Japan. This unusually pessi-
mestic editorial has obviously resulted from the growing
number of incidents of violence and disorder attending
labor agitation, particularly in conneotion with the
recent decision of the National Railway Corporation to
undertake drastic personnel cuts affecting about ninety
thousand employees as part of the SCAP-directed economic
stabilization program. In this atmosphere of increasing
unrest and tension, further intensified by the extremely
communist attitude of repatriates now arriving from Soviet
territories, the nation was shocked by the mysterious
death of Mr. SHIMOYAMA Sadanori, President of the National
Railway Corporation, whose mutiiated body was discovered
in the early morning hours of July 6 on a railway embank-
ment in the suburbs of Tokyo.
The Shimoyama death is as yet unsolved, but most
evidence points to murder rather than suicide and the
ramified implications of political assassination have
become the subject of universal speculation. While
evidence is lacking, most Japanese are convinoed that
Shimoyama was kidnapped and murdered by a communist terror
squad because of his uncompromising attitude in implementing
the personnel cut program of the National Railway Corpora-
tion. In its issue of July 8 Yomiuri commented that the
strange death has occurred "in an atmosphere of social
unrest" and, whether murder or suicide, "it is undeniable
that political or social unrest lies hidden behind it."
894.008
The
CONFIDENTIAL
JAN 1 6 1952
FILHD
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WYTH A NOTÁON OF

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.99)
No. 451, July 11, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
The feeling of uncertainty and tension which has
come over the country is pointedly reflected in the
Nippon Times editorial. Recent events, the newspaper notes,
have deepened cons iousness among the people "that Japan
is faced today witi the danger of being enslaved by a
compact, well-organized minority which has shown every
indication of going to any length to seize political
power". Consolidating the remarkable gains achieved
through insidious infiltration of labor unions, cultural
groups, and even government offices, Nippon Times is
convinced that the Japanese Communists are now attempting
to test their strength in a series of nationwide incidents
showing open contempt for law and order.
On July 7 the Japanese press reporied that Prime.
Minister YOSHIDA Shigeru is working on plans to declare
a state of national emergency. This action has unquestion-
ably been stimulated by the Supreme Commander's Fourth
of July statement which raised the question as to how
much longer communist activity can be accorded the validity,
sanction, and protection of law (this Mission's des)itch
no. 431 of July 5, 1949). The Prime Minister is, of course,
expected to consult General Headquarters concerning any
action which he may contemplate in the nature of declaring
an emergency. There is as yet no indication what action
may be considered against the Communists under such a
declaration of emergency, but it is believed that, while
outlawing of the Communist Party is not expected, very.
severe restrictions will be placed upon comnunist-organized
labor meetings and demonstrations with vigorous police
action in any future cases of violence or disorder.
There is also the possibility that the Supreme Com-
mander may be moved to take action in an effort to dispel
the tense atmosphere which has developed during the past
several weeks.  There is no longer doubt that the series
of violent and disorderly incidents now taking place almost
daily in some section of Japan is organized and directed
by the Japan Communist Party. It is believed that the
Communists have deliberately postponed any plans for an
all-out "struggle" in the form of large-soale or general
strikes during the much-publicized July-August offensive.
Instead, it appears that a strategy of intensified local
action is being pursued, no single incident of which
is by itself cause for great alarm. Yet the series of
such looal incidents witnessed over the st month has
in its accumulated effect brought the country to a
more serious state of uncertainty and tension than has
hitherto been experienced under the Occupation. There is
also some evidence to indicate that communist Korean
elements are aotively pressing these looal disturbances.
Thus
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch
No. 451, Ju1y 11, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
Thus far the National Railway Workers Union has been
the principal channel through which the strategy of
localized struggles and violence has been implemented.
While the National Railway Workers Union has long been
subject to considerable communist influence, it is only
too apparent that this labor organization has been
selected to initiate the summer offensive because of the
seri us extent to which railway workers are now being
affected by personnel cuts,
As the full effects of retrenchment under the economio
stabilization program are felt, it is expected that the
politico-labor situation will become even more serious.
Such retrenchment in the form of personne' discharges
has unquestionably provided the Japanese Communists with
one of the most effective weapons they ha e had to date,
for the feeling of social insecurity and the resultant
social unrest which unemployment inevitably inspires is
creating a situation most favorable to communist appeals.
Yet in view of the necessity to stabilize the nation's
lopsided economy there appears no way to avoid reducing
personnel staffs in both government and private industry.
The communists, therefore, are at present enjoying the
advantages of the serious dilemma faced by Japan and,
less directly, by the Occupation.
Already local "vigilant committees" have been
organized by the townspeople of Taira and nine other
communities where it is felt that local units of the
National Rural Police are unable or nprepared to deal
with incidents like the communist eizure of the Taira
police station on June 30 (this Misi. n's A-175, July 8,
1949)。
There would appear to be no doubt that the Communists
have determined that it is in their interest to promote
at the present time outbursts of violence at widespread
points through the country. The motive behind this
determination is doubtless in part the familiar communist
motive of maintaining political turr oil in areas in which
they have active aspirations. It scems likely that, as
part of this strategy, it is the expectation of Communists
√.
that these provoked outbursts of violence will anger
SCAP and the Japanese Government, will result in coercive
measures to maintain order, and that such measures will
be executed in a manner causing large segments of the
population to believe that the rights of the Japanese
people are being ignored and abused.
Whether
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.96)
Tokyo's Despatch
No. 451 Ju1y 11, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
Whether the Communists have made a profitable
diagnosis is not yet clear. There is already a noteworthy
moral renwision n many Japanese qua"ters against the
violence employed by the Communists, partioularly as a
conseguence of their suspected implic:tion in the death
of Shimoyama. It is not impossible that a oareful
guidance of public st tements by Headquarters and the
Japanese Government in general relation to suoh aots of
violence may be successfully directed to a sharper differ-
entiation of Japanese labor groups from those whioh are
openly communist.
Te Mission anticipates a continuance of this
communist strategy and anticipates that SCAP will be
faced by a problem of grave consequence and delicate
decision in meeting the threat of disorder without
incurring the opprobrium of coercive action in violation
of the people's interests.
Respectfully yours,
CecnulAin
Cloyde K. Huston
Chargé d'Affaires ad int rim
att'
Enclosure:
Editorial from Nippon Times
entitled "The Communist Danger"
July 8, 1949. (Five cop1es)
Parohment Mat to Department.
350.21
CNSpinks:mhp
CONF IDENTIAL
87313

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatoh No. 451
1
dated July.11, 1949 from the United
States Rlitical Adviser for Japan
Tokyo, on the subject, "The Communist
Danger in'Japan".
NIFPON TIMES: July 8, 1949
The Communist
and family than in tedious
emselves. But what is more!
union business, the Communist
Danger
m nority has gradually estab-
ssential at this time. is the
alization among. the sane-
1hed itself solidly in posts of
riinded citizens that it is high
Recent events on the labor
inuence! The majority soon
e they aroused themselves
front in various parts of the
found that it had no voice of
 the potential dangers to
nation have deepened the feel-
its own. Invariably the Com-
ir security from a vicious
ing among the people that
munist minority claimed that
ority. The time has come
it represented the majority
Japan is faced today with the
r the people to rally their
danger of being enslaved by
and intimated all those who
1.rces to fight for the democra-
a
compact, well-organized
expressed opposition.
Consolidating its gains, the
tic way of life and all it stands
minority which has shown
Communist minority is now
for. ' Democracy was given to
every 'indication of going to
d'splaying signs of testing its
Japan the, easy way. But the
any length to seize political.
strength.
In Fukushima,
people must now realize that
headed persons have remark-
ed that the general atmos-
power. Many,responsible level-
Hiroshima, Yokohama, and
other parts of the nation. the
Communist and Communist-
to protect and preserve the
democratic concept. Examples
they must alert themselves
phere of unease at present is
similar to that preceding the
inspired groups have shown
in a loud display ∂f bravado
powering the majority in many
of a ruthless minority over-
Russian revolution.
Despite vehement Com-
that they hold law and order
in contempt. These .demon-
tinent are all too numerous in
nations on the European con-
munist charges that the "Red-
scare" is nothing but "bour-
strations had the double pur-
pose of giving courage to their
recent history for the people
to take a complacent attitude.
geois propaganda", it cannot
weaker members and .of sap-
Unified efforts are needed to
be denied that a small Com-
r'ng the confidence of the
combat this danger. For the
munist minority has come by
lonest citizens in their gov-
Communist minority finds its
stealth, deceit, and intimida-
ernment.
strehgth in its (iron-bound
tion to wield. great powers. in
The Communist Party, of
unity. The people mūst fight
a manner wholly repugnant to
course, would deny that it had
this threat to their security
the vast majority of the Japa-
deliberately planned the re-
through a thoroughty aroused
nese people. By infiltrating
cent outbreak of labor strifes.
public opinion. The people
into key labor unions and set-
It would point out that those
must see that their common
ting up a centrally controlled
disturbances were spontaneous
concern at this time transcends
structure, the Communists and
uprisings against the present
all their separate: interests.
their fellow-travelers are now
Government and its policies.
Many evils have been wrought
in a position to control and
But facts point otherwise.
in the name of patriotism.
move great numbers of the
'Communists have participated
But this is a period in history
workers.
and led in all labor demonstra-
when the people must resort
The process by which the
tions. They have voiced state-
to their common loyalties to a
Communists have been able to
ments of an inflammatory
democratic way of life .and
secure positions of influence
nature which has led to undue
they must do battle with en-
follows a definite 'pattern in
friction 'between the authori-
croaching forces which would
every instance. They have
ties and the workers.
bring chaos and disorder. The
ruthlessly taken advantage of
It would be easy enough for
nation's leaders, for their part,
the honest workers who are
the majority to institute legal
must propose measures which
complacently enjoying their.
measures to curb the activities
they judge to be right rather
newly acquired freedom and
of this Communist minority.
than to wait to sce what seems
democratic rights. By pro-
And whether it will be deem
expedient. Moreover, they
fessing to lighten the burden
ed necessary or not will de-
must back'their proposals with
of the average worker who is
rend entirely upon the future
sober and informed opinion
more interested in his home
activities of the Communists
around which the  sincere
citizens may rally.

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT DETACH THIS FORM
TE
RECORD COPY
894.00B/7-1149
THE ATTACHED COPY OF ADESPATCHTELEGRAM AIRGRAM
HAS BEEN DESIGNATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL
TOKYO
ACTION COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS BY
THE ACTION OFFICE.
D-451
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
1950
M-184
11-9-48

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.99)
THE POREIGN SERVICE
DC/R
OF THE
CONTROL COPY
UNITED STATES OF AMIDRIGA
DCR
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
No。 451
Tokyo, July 11, 1949.
REC'D
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department use only).
JULY 25
JUL 2 9 1949
ACTION
FE-enc
INFO
Subject: The Comnunist Danger in Japan.
DCR
S/S-nc
OLI-enc
EURX-enc
The Honorable
POS
The Secretary of State,
ITP
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to transmit five copies of an
editorial from the July 8, 1949, issue of Nippon Times
on the communist danger in Japan. This unusually pessi-
mestic editorial has obviously resulted from the growing
number of incidents of violence and disorder attending
labor agitation, particularly in connection with the
recent decision of the National Railway Corporation to
undertake drastic personnel cuts affecting about ninety
thousand employees as part of the SCAP-directed economic
stabilization program. In this atmosphere of increasing
unrest and tension, further intensified by the extremely
comaunist attitude of repatriates now arriving from Soviet
territories, the nation was shocked by the mysterious
death of Mr. SHIMOYAIA Sadanori, President of the National
Railway Corporation, whose mutiiated body was discovered
in the early morning hours of July 6 on a railway embank-
ment in the suburbs of Tokyo.
00B
The Shimoyama death is as yet unsolved, but most
evidence points to murder rather than suicide and the
ramified implications of political assassination have
become the subject of universal speculation. While
evidence is lacking, most Japanese are convinced that
Shimoyama was kidnapped and murdered by a communist terror
squad because of his uncompromising attitude in implementing
the personnel cut program of the National Railway Corpora-
tion. In its issue of July 8 Yomiuri commented that the
strange death has occurred "in an atmosphere of social
unrest" and, whether murder or suicide, "it is undeniable
that political or social unrest lies hidden behind it."
The
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.99)
No。 451, July 11, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
The feeling of uncertainty and tension which has
come over the country is pointedly reflected in the
Nippon Times edito ial. Recent events, the newspaper notes,
have deepened cons iousness among the people "that Japan
is faced today wit tne danger of being enslaved by a
compact, well-organized minority which has shown every
indication of going to any length to seize political
power". Consolidating the remarkable gains achieved
through insidious infiltration of labor unions, cultural
groups, and even government offices, Nippon Times is
convinced that the Japanese Communists are now attempting
to test their strength in a series of nationwide incidents
showing open contempt for law and order.
On July 7 the Japanese press reported that Prime.
Minister YOSHIDA Shigeru is working on plans to declare
a state of national emergency. This action has unquestion-
ably been stimulated by the Supreme Commander's Fourth
of July statement which raised the question as to bow
much longer communist activity can be accorded the validity,
sanction, and protection of law (this Mission's des) itch
no. 431 of July 5, 1949). The Prime Minister is, of course,
expected to consult General Headquarters concerning any
action which he may contemplate in the nature of declaring
an emergency. There is as yet no indication what action
may be considered ageinst the Communists under such a
declaration of emergency, but it is believed that, while
outlawing of the Communist Party is not expected, very
severe restrictions will be placed upon comaunist-organized
labor meetings and demonstrations with vigorous police
action in any future cases of violence or disorder.
There is also the possibility that the Supreme Com-
mander may be moved to take action in an effort to dispel
the tense atmosphere which has developed during the past
several weeks. There is no longer doubt that the series
of violent and disorderly incidents now taking place almost
daily in some section of Japan is organized and directed
by the Japan Communist Party. It is believed that the
Communists have deliberately postponed any plans for an
all-out "struggle" in the form of large-scale or general
strikes during the much-publicized July-August offensive.
Instead, it appears that a strategy of intensified local
action is being pursued, no single incident of which
is by itself cause for great alarm. Yet the series of
such local incidents witnessed over the st month has
in its accumulated effect brought the country to a
more serious state of uncertainty and tension than has
hitherto been experienced under the Occupation. There is
also some evidence to indicate that communist Korean
elements are actively pressing these local disturbances.
Thus
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch
No。 451, Ju1y 11, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
Thus far the National Railway Workers Union has been
the principal channel through which the strategy of
localized struggles and violence has been implemented.
While the National Railway Workers Union has long been
subject to considerable communist influence, it is only
too apparent that this labor organization has been
selected to initiate the surmer offensive because of the
seri us extent to which railway workers are now being
affected by personnel cuts.
As the full effects of retrenchment under the economic
stabilization program are felt, it is expected that the
politico-labor situation will become even more serious.
Such retrenchnent in the form of personne' discharges
has unquestionably provided the Japanese Communists with
one of the most effective weapons they ha e had to date,
for the feeling of social insecurity and the resultant
social unrest which unemployment inevitably inspires is
creating a situation most favorable to communist appeals.
Yet in view of the necessity to stabilize the nation's
lopsided economy there appears no way to avoid reducing
personnel staffs in both government and private industry.
The communists, therefore, are at present enjoying the
advantages of the serious dilemma faced by Japan and,
less directly, by the Occupation.
Already local "vigilant committees" have been
organized by the townspeople of Taira and nine other
communities where it is felt that local units of the
National Rural Police are unable or nprepared to deal
with incidents like the comiunist eizure of the Taira
police station on June 30 (this Misi. n's A-175, July 8,
1949)。
There would appear to be no doubt that the Communists
have determined that it is in their interest to promote
at the present time outbursts of violence at widespread
points through the country. The motive behind this
determination is doubtless in part te familiar communist
motive of maintaining political tur pil in areas in which
they have active aspirations. It scems likely that, as
part of this strategy, it is the expectation of Communists
that these provoked outbursts of violence will anger
SCAP and the Japanese Government, will result in coercive
measures to maintain order, and that such measures will
be executed in a manner causing large segments of the
population to believe that the rights of the Japanese
people are being ignored and abused.
Whether
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's Despatch
No. 451, Ju1y 11, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-4-
Whether the Communists have made a profitable
diagnosis is not yet clear. There is already a noteworthy
moral rev sion n many Japanese qua ters against the
violence employed by the Communists, particularly as a
conseguence of their suspected implic tion in the death
of Shimoyama. It is not impossible that a careful
guidance of public at tements by Headquarters and the
Japanese Government in general relation to such acts of
violence may be successfully directed to a sharper differ-
entiation of Japanese labor groups from those which are
openly communist.
The Mission anticipates a continuance of this
communist strategy and anticipates that SCAP will be
faced by a problem of grave consequence and delicate
decision in meeting the threat of disorder without
incurring the opprobrium of coercive action in violation
of the people's interests.
Respectfully yours,
CnulAurin
Cloyde K. Huston.
Chargé d'Affaires ad int rim
att
Enclosure:
Editorial from Nippon Times
entitled "The Communist Danger"
July 8, 1949. (Five copies)
Parchment Mat to Department.
350.21
CNSpinks:mhp
CONFIDENTIAL
87313

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.96)
THE FOREEN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
De
894.00B/8-2949
United States Politioal Adviser
for Japan
TokypAugust 29, 1949.
No. 593
SECRET
1949
kiti
894.00B/8-2949
REC'D
Subject: Communist "Peace" Meeting in Kamakura.
SEPT 8
ACTION
FE
The Honorable
INFO
Seoretary of State,
DCR
Washington.
s/s
OLI
Sir:
I have the honor to transmit to the Department a
memorandum dated August 18, 1949, prepared by Foreign
006364
Servioe Offioer J. Owen ZURHELLEN of the Yokohama
Branoh of this Mission, desoribing a "peace" meeting
held under communist sponsorship in Kamakura at which
the prinoipal speaker was Mr. NosAA Sanzo, Communist
Party central committeeman.
The "peaoe" meeting was obviously a part of the
Japan Communist Party's recently inaugurated propaganda
line designed to suggest that the Ocoupation threatens
Japan with war.
Mr. Zurhellen's reference to having previously met.
Mr. Nosaka at my home relates to a reception I gave some
months ago to the members of the Foreign Affairs Commit-
tee of the House of Representatives. Mr. Nosaka attended
the reoeption as a member of this committee.
2XRS
Respeotfully yours,
xR
Bebace
W. J. Sebald
861.20294
att
NOV.28 1949
Enolosure
FILED
Memorandum dated
August 18, 1949,
F
prepared by Foreign
mgs
SECRET
A
Service Officer J.
Owen Zurhellen.
350.21
CNSpinks:gmd
Parehment Mat to the Department
Copy to UBPOLAD, Yokohama.
ACTION
COPY
SEORET
RETUBN TO DO/H FELES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITE A NOTATT

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatoh No. 593
dated August 29, 1949, from the
United States Politioel Adviser
for Japan, Tokyo, on the subjeot
"Communist 'Peace' Meeting in
SECRET
Kamakura"
August 18, 1949
MEMORANDUM FOR: The Consul in Charge.
SUBJECT:
The Kamakura Peace Meeting
Posters recently appeared on the streets in the oity
of Kamakure, where the undersigned lives, announoing that
"The Kamakura Peace Meeting" would be held in the leoture
hall of the lst Primary School in Kamakura on the evening
of August 17. No mention was made of the sponsoring or-
ganization nor of the character of the meeting to be held
other than that it was to be a "peace"meeting.
I went to the lst Primary Sohool last evening to at-
tend this meeting because I believed that the meeting
might very likely be an attempt on the part of the Jap-
nese Communist Party and the local Communists to consoli-
date the gains they recently made in Kamakure politios
when for the first time in Kamakura's history two Commu-
nists were eleoted members of the City Counoil
Approximately 300 persons attended the meeting, most
of them men and most of them appearing to be of oollege
student age. There were perhaps 40 women present and as
many older people who appeared to be residents of Kamakura,
while most of the student group appeared to have come from
Tokyo. The sohool auditorium was decorated with five large
banners containing the following insoriptions:
"Join Hands with the World Peaoe Movement.
"Speed the Peace Treaty and Guard the
Independenoe of Japan.
"Citizens of Kamakura, add your Strength
to the Love of Peace."
"Protect Kamakura's Culture, Eduoation and
Produotion."
"Let us Oppose War Propagande and Fasoism.
The meeting began about 6: 30 p.m. and there was a
succession of approximately 12 speakers representing dif-
ferent organizations in the Tokyo and Kamakura area who
brought their "greetinga" to the meeting. All spoke on
the same theme, the defeat of those who desire war and
the bringing about of "peaoe". A distinot effort was
made by
SECRET

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 593 dated
August 29, 1949.
2.
made by all the speakers to avoid any mention of the
Communist Party, Communism and the reletions between the
United States and the Union of Soviet Sooialist Republics
The speakers included both men and women and, at several
points, young children read statements whioh had been pre-
pared for them asking for peace. The speakers dwelled at
length on how happy the Japanese people were when the war
ended in 1945 and how they must all work to make sure that
no future war is inflicted on them. One speaker mentioned
that at a recent similar meeting in Tokyo over 2,000 peopl
had gathered representing Christian, Buddhist and Athiest
groups, all joined together in spite of their different
viewpoints to strive for peace.  Other speakers mentioned
by quoting statistics the great losses which Japan had suf-
fered in the war, the numbers of killed and wounded, the
numbers of houses destroyed, etc. The Shimoyama and Mitaka
inoidents were brought up as evidence that there were people
in Japan who were anxious to start trouble whioh might lead
to war, internal at least, if not international. These in-
cidents were compared to the Sacoo-Vanzetti case in the
United States without, however,making any direot oriticism
of the United States. The last speaker in this group ended
up his talk by saying "this is no time to ask whether our
ideas, our ideologies or our tastes differ. When a fire
starts you don't discuss differences, you aot together."
This group of speeches lasted approximately 2t hours
and was rather boring to many of the Japanese audienoe,
as well as to me. Polite applause was given at the end
of each speeoh. When the main speaker of the evening was
introduoed, however, it was immediately apparent that it.
was to hear him that most of the audience had come to the
meeting. He was announced as NOZAKA, Sanzo, the Communist
leader who is well known for his years of exile in Commu-
nist China end his leadership. of the postwar Communist
movement in Japan. Nozaka was given thunderous applause
at the beginning, at the end and at various times during
his apeeoh whioh lasted about 40 minutes. Nozaka did not
hedge in his speeoh about being a Communist or about ad-
vocating a turn towards Communism in Japan. He stated
that if Christianity were able to supply a solution to
the world's problems he would welcome that solution, but
that he was oonvinoed that Christianity was not able to
offer any suoh solution and that the only possibility of
preventing war lay in the conoerted aotion of the masses
of people who would have to fight and who would suffer if
another war ooourred. A resume of the main points covered
in his speech are as follows:
In the last war Japan was only bombed. In the
next war, if there is one, it would undoubtedly be-
come a battle ground on whioh troops would aotually
fight. What would happen to Kamakura then? Consider
who got the most out of the last war and who suffered
the most. I am sure that you all know. when I was
in China I saw battalion and brigade commanders who
at home.
SECRET

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatoh No. 593 dated
August 29, 1949.
3
at home could not afford a maid, living in great
mansions with lots of servants. We hear "war, war"
everywhere but if there is a war, who will fight?
I am sure you know. The Yoshida Cabinet desires
only to export produots of Japanese labor to foreign
countries at low prices. The rebuilding of heavy
industry in Japan is necessary but that industry
must be controlled by the people so that it will not
fall into the hands of the capitalists and be used
for war production. Freedom of speech is gradually
being limited in Japan. All newspapers carry the
same news and Japan is returning to the same situa-
tion in whioh it was during the war. Newspapers
exaggerate and falsify the news. For instance, in
the Mitaka inoident they published a pioture showing
a railroad car with a certain number and it has been
proven that no oar with that number was there.
Will foreign troops remain after the Peace
Treaty? Will they remain after Japan is made inde-
pendent, as has happened in Germany? What kind of
independenoe will that be? Is Yoshida making a saeri-
fice of Japan so that foreign troops can fight here in
case of war? Japan's economic, political and inter-
national plans are all the same as they were in pre-
war and wartime days. News releases today are just.
like the old "communique from Imperial General Head-
quarters". Even in those countries which desire wer
there are elements desiring peace. If the Japanese
people, as individuals, refuse to be dragged into a
fight, no outside foroe can make them fight. If all
the politioal parties get together and oppose war it
would be possible to rovent war. Hiroshima and Naga-
saki call themselves Cities of Peace because they were
hit by the atom bomb. But when you look at them you
see that they are filled with dance halls and other
such things. Make Kamakura, a oity of real culture
whioh did not suffer any war damage, a real City of
Peace!
When Nozaka had finished his speeoh the orowd bogan
to rise and leave the building but the master of ceremonies
asked them to wait for one more short speeoh whioh turned
out to be that of the representative of the League of Koreams
Resident in Japan, who made a short speeoh also calling for
peace. The audienoe then left the auditorium and Nozake,
who had notioed me sitting in the audienoe, nodded to me.
He recalled that we had met at Mr. SEBALD's home and I told
him that I thought he had made an interesting speeoh. I
asked him to remember, however, in conneotion with his
statement that freedom of speech was being limited in Japan
and that the situation was very muoh like that which existed
during the war, that he had not been in Japan during the war
and was perhaps not well aoquainted with the situation dur-
ing that time, but that I felt sure that any of the people
in his
SECRET

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 593 dated
August 29, 1949.
in his audience would be able to tell him whether he
would have been permitted to speak on behalf of his cause
in the auditorium of a public school before the beginning
of the Ocoupation. He replied that he had not meant to
indicate that freedom of speech was limited in Wapan now
to the same extent that it had been limited during the
war but only that the tendenoy was in that direction. He
further agreed that although the tendenoy might be in
that direction it still had a long way to go before con-
ditions would be like those during wartime. I then left
the meeting.
J. Owen Zurhellen, Jr.
American Vice Consul
SECRET

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.90)
THE PON
lile
United States Political 'dviser
for Jepan
JIVISION 
o. c02
RESTRIJAD
00T201949
no a ctn reguine?
my
AN  
ubject:
: The Konoe  emori 1 of Febru ry 14, 1945.
00B/9-149
The Ronorable
The ecreary of State,
woshington.
1xπ
Sir.
I have the honer to t ransiit to the Depertrent
I/
  emor ndum dated Septeber 1, 1949, prepared by
Foreicn Service Ofricer Ch rles . FIins on the
subjeet of  menoriel the lete Prince KonoE Fumimaro
in reported to Lave preseated to the Emperor on
February 14, 1945 in whiel. Konoe urged the Empe.or to
rin cbout an im ediate pesce settle:.ent with the
United States ena Great Brit in in order to evert a
communist revolution in Jen.
The vemori 1 Wos made publie by r. IWA3UCI
Tatsuo in the unast 1948 p seue of Sakai Bunka. Mr. Iwabuchi
vs a close friend ani peraonel edviser of Prince Konoe
and cl ims  hat he ssi sted, in company vith other members
of the so- led Yonos brain trust, in drafting the
document juring o nusber of nectings in January 1945.
Mr. Ivabuchi also claims hot former Narquis KIDo Koichi,
XR
who wes then Lora Privy Seol, strongly opposed Prince
Konoe's suggestions rnd turned a copy of the memoriel
over to the  ilit ry Police vwho subse uently rrested
Mr. Iwebuchi, kr. YoshIDA Shigeru. ani others on charges
of un lertaking e "peace conspi cy' ageinst the rmy.
(ir. Yoshide, however, was in fect in no wey involved
ith the memoriml lthough he was rt the time also working
for u peace settlemert.)
The material presented in the enclosed memorandum
is now prinerily of historicel interest. An effort is
made, however, to indicate some of the contemporery
implications of prewar ond wartime comrunist activiti
in Japan which are believed to be responsible for
Prince Konoe's belief, as expressed in the memorial,
that, es the war progressed, Japan stood more and more
in darger of succumbing to e communist revolution.
While
VJ
RESTRICTED
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS. WITH A NOTATION OF AOTION TAHEN.

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.94)
Tokyo's no. 602,
September 1, 1949.,
ESTRICTED
-2-
ile rrince Konoe's interpretation of development
rstionelizetion of his own actions, his memorial offer
e urpr: singly prophetlc outline of subsequent soviet
policy toverl the Far East and Japan in partioular.
sre is believed t be considerable historical basis
Fur irince ono 's view that the extreme leftists and
Jomurirt in Japan vere in reality excced ingly close to
the ultra-rigaticts and militerists in their thinking
end that te i rimery terget of both extremes was the
ce, itel istio system The encloscd . emorandum traces
 some jctil xecrles of lertist-rightist affinity in
Irewar Jepan an: tie extent ts which Japanese Communists
re ble to bae sceciateitn the militery and the
ri tlst  uenuersts. in sa ocses penetrating top
lovels  ever ment serviee buetuse of this afrinity.
s  iclly in the ficiis f radical internal
for t te plarmir sfr the soviet model that
1 ftists enl rightists found con ten ground.
Ample evideree is now av ilable to indicate the
un extont to waicn .riee cnoe's elebrated brain
Itruss wes a nodgepodge of idr logicel sentiments, contain-
.nr bta coaunist and ultre ri.tist extremes.It is
believed thst two pre-wer ineidents first revealed to
Irince Monoe lot only the remarteble extent of communist
puhetretien of tle tep levels of covernment servioe but
alsc tnc extent to wnich comaunist and rightist political
viove were of Fundamentally simiiar ch racter. These
ro velutions cwne as e result ef tie implicstion of olose
Prient's and eivisers of Prin  Honoe in the Cabinet
Planning Beara incident and the Jorge espionage case.
It is beli ved that seve al important conolusions
can be d:n fin e review or the polit ical developments
in Jupan which led to Prince Kenee's meaorial. of primary
sinificence is the extent to whiih apperently irreoonoil-
able ideclosies cen be successfully accolamodated if given
the richt i: umstunces In inal analysis, pre-war Japa-
nese "Pccuisn" and comnunism ere not poles apart. Both
ideclogies were seekins a form of totalitarien nationaliza-
tion of Jepanese life in which the differences of approach
and ctiectives were fur less significent than the similari-
ties. It required, terefore, only minor adjustments in
tainking and terninology for the two ext emes to work to-
Eether. The Japenese Communists were. of course, the ones
who mede the necessery adjustn.ent.
The secend significant conclusion rowing out of
this review is the remarkable continuity of communist
effort in Jepan. Despite intensive, rutaless police
control over two decades, by 1941 Japanese Conmunists
(one of whom, OZAkI Hidemi, was later proved to be an
agent of the Comintern) had penetrated the highest poli-
cy levels of the Japenese Government.
These
RESTRICTED

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.93)
Septe ber 1, 1949.
ESTRICTED
-3-
Thee rem rkable co munist achievements in so-cal
"f sist" Japa vere ude possible by preserving the
contimuity of comununist effort. This was accomplished
by the simple device of adjusting colmunist activity to
meet c rrent re,uire unts. ithout comprasising or
prejuit ins their priury objective--an eventual comount
regime in Japan--the Japanese Communists were able to
preserve their continulty by identifying their own
principles ? objectives with those of the Japanese
milit: rists is wos not a difficult task to accomplish,
because the Con nists realized thet the "fascists" of
Jupan vere in fin l  nelysis little different from confused
harxists in tiet they lsc sou it similar totslitarion
objeetives By working within the convenient framework
of suen progrors as nti-e:pit listic intornal reform
ani stute-control led ecenomic pl miny, Japanese
Co. : un!ets terror rily iscar tea t eir red label and
found  ve: of welcome in the inner sanetums of Japanes
ilitri
Tt iu believe: that Prince Yonoe came to realize
the serlous imp ications of th is situation when he
draftea toe memoris1 of Februr. 14, 1946.
nile the hypotheses tevelopea in Fso Spinks'
memoranaum ale lergely cused upon inference and his
conei sions e tmurefore to s e extect entative, he
is to be higi ly co ended for the initiative, originality,
and ili ence aiaplayed in its israration luch of the
rese reh incidental to the pre aration of the memorandum
Was underteken and completed luring Mr. Spinks' spare
ti. e, at night and on wee..-ends. The result of his study,
Lonsver indicates a careful uprroach to and a thorough
nowledge of uhe suhjeet matter unaer diseussion and
shrula fora a interesting ni v lueble certribution to
the Depart ent's files on conrunist influences in Japan
dn ju t.e laat thrse decades
Respeotrully yours.
N. J. Sebald
Enclosure:
imemoran lum of Jeptenber 1,
1949 by F30 Charles N. Spinks.
Parcrment Mat to Depart ent..
040
CCoville:WJSebald:mhp
RESTRICTED

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.84)
Enoloau
United Statex o
for Japan; Tokyop
"The Konoe Nemorfer
RJTRLUTED
1945
 KONOE LEMORLAL OF PEBRUARY 14, 1945
emorlal
Al us! 24? issue of Sesal Lunka eppeared
le  Masu vatoue entftied Frince ons'
. Iscbuohi is a Journalist
. vaa formerly
he lte Prinoe. KONOE
f cocse shiftins cateries
y kw es the
AT trense etion or. the
herecofore un-
 the Emperer
1915. is which the
t brins about Japan's
d tates in order to
mit olutlon. In
brs tae wer to an end
l total mill
xt.  tren of the
itei States,
v the
tr ectavi
saide the country.
-rel long dis-
thin eocrial and
is unusual
seisted
number of
ni i
Coluary 1945 The finel
is seid  be the work
Iwabucir believe's shet
in vas Lperlal Household
ai qu IDo Koiohi,
n Lesd
privy seal
is e likely
 ef the serorlel wie eppears
Duka ertrcle wes derivea Cron a copy
Tas he made after the end of tae war
te in Prinee Konpe s posso ton
Wrile it hes net hcen possible t verify definitely
ts t hety f she memoriel. it is believed that
the  aent wit ch r. Iwaluchi has published is bone
fady in. Iwebucbi is a respcnsible journalist, al though
Tss sose wres to erind whlch will be referred to
belerNevertheless it is lerdly coneeiveble that a
cen uf his standing wouli attempt to perpetrate a hoax
of tiis sagnitude ty putllsuing a spurious dccument.
If it
RESTRICTED

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.89)
1949。
RESTRICTED
peserted to
by has nothing
sxplained
 hinself
CI
sui sde in
ba: he
.vas
because
nnion
partial
reve
criminal
1二5
memerial
war
Interna
nrluded
verdirt
2:
K:do
Respon-
rt1s
enter
forner
rm charges
removed the
and it
incident
not
RESTRICTED

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.83)
no. 502, September 1
1949
RESTRICTED
-3-
vealel earlier
It: present revelat
tine when it had no ett
vin respee toid
vindg th
the hi hes' regard.
Ram:ral
Prin e Kenoe riesented to
Enn
on Febn
towerd the end of
ire
had es ered
Philipo
surrencerto
Tr1
that defees
emish
he wes cor
Greal Br
Rather
s mational
cust be viewed
the possi
flloring
that Acmoatt
rng in a
evelutfon in
rewlewed fur the
atn towa rd es
abering scun
Foland
 cf Soviet
wmunist ele
Belxium
e' efforts
Kn
 momoriel
1. spatch
S.
and the
thers deve Lepments
bo ar danger or
ccicsl rcognition 
9
mm mist cabinet
ma Badegli
Tisnment
ce Malntenance
Law ane the
Tormria Foet
withes capan Prare
 condition
Iocuminy ripe for the mmunist covements partiou
ler
Rsster sercimen' hi:h was holry roted tehihd wartine
ri Dritair
"eform movement
ry sertein sroups within the military and the move
initiated
he so called new hureeucrat
edvanta
RESTRICTED

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.85)
no. 602, Soptember 1,
1949.
RESTHICTED
~4-
clvage f the for, and the underground 
a left-vi
:lacns maneuverin: behini the so
CF
intornal develrpments, Prince Kono
hed
ee to ce reformist group
for, s be nored. "a large mumber of the you
rri
 Iml rolity is comp
their cuneerrion ef a reo
is foun
 tre some timb
unis loments
prose. weve.
the militarists
r  tional polity
s vident the
il in turn had
deliberately
and that
fommist faction
icr," the
Teck pen
e pe:ple
ight-wing
27
.sk 
are to
guide
form
anxiety
Red sccepted
he sonfessed
Jay hehind
ime the memorial
Denana
par recastence rather
at his desperat
Cumi plutting behin
fusicn and ther era. un eventual commnist revolution
be e rieved. B.t. hale doonnds for a var of total
wnmihilatim ith Arerte and Erstai. were rising, Kono
reted thme pre ovies e
vus aa same time
atreesire te the exteut th't it was rported that
veatten of the tray is cven in fever of joining
henss rith Rassie, vhetever sacrifices such a move may
enl, while sthers propeae a c. alities with Yenan.
 cone itions severius re csmurist movemont
were thus hecoming nere prepitusus, the further prolon
gaticn of the war could only leed to disast rous conm
quences, especially as tlier- was no ray of hepe for
victo
RESTRICTED

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.90)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
no.. 608, September 1,
1949.
BESTRICTED
-5-
victory in silt To continue the hopeless war.
therefore, s "only to play into the hends of the
Co.mmuni t Party"
Frince "once believed th't the reatest sngle
cheuele to  er ine ing the war was the reforrist group
in the Ary Accorlingly. the first necessary step we
the elimins tipn or this group, along with opportunistld
uresucrate  the left- nl right-wing elements
surrounding thoro
In Iis poments whior follev the text of the
memoriul. Lr Iwabuchi maint ins tht karguis Kido,
localy arfiliuted wit tie refor ist elecents in the
top elelen o? t i y, stren ly opposed the action
Prinee Konce usged Accsraiue to this same source the
Eaperor thoro ghly apreed with Kenoe's proposal, but y
was powerless to it
Iwabchi is onvinced that
Mar uls Kido held the peins of power on behalf of the
ilftn ists t t is his level of covernnent cotie
nd tbat it wee arauls vide whe faformed the Fs rei
Pai s he mecorir hi was Ited in r. Iwabus rrs
arreet aloay i th Lr sho). shtg ru (who beoume
Prime  inicter fter mhe war),  loeough Mr Yosh ida
was in no vay onneeted  iti. the perori:I.
II Jiatoricsl Basis Tes Prinee Renoe's Views
w 
inee Monce esti ber the situation
eu the pime of uhe e oriul n conject urel until this
perlca of dure ee sictery c be fore fully doounented.
sut with wsryet to ti i of the sovies Waion, the
Prinee we re ruble pre et ie How fur comunist
loments, er elements syapet: vtie ith con uniem, were
active in Jeres tt thut ti a ho
 influence they
totuelly exertcu on uhe over ll pcliticl situ tion cannot
be determinea jefinitively hevertheless, there is
believed te exis soe historicel basis for the views
Prinee Konec entert inea pIthough the Prlnee's interpre-
tation of the f ts ir t int  of 1944-as was in some
ceses dletorted. Iu is sinifieant. hovever, that he
craered tie relavionship betweer proven t rends of Soviet
action and  ypothetical or evan potentlal possibility
of pcmmunist uction in Jaran
1. Iaeolosio l Conrucion ir Pre-Was Japan.
Before attempting to review the historical basis. for
Prinee Konce's premise, it is necessury to recognize the
confusion vl ien Les characterized disoussion of right-
and left-wi: political activities in pre-wor Japan.
Too often it las been sccepted that right and left oan
be sh rply delineated Thus the extreme left is convenientl
lubelled comunism an the extre e right, fascism on the
assumption that the tvo re logically poles apart.
3oth
RESTRICTED

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.85)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
no. 602, .Se tember 1,
1949
RESTRL TED
-e-
Both the extre e right and the extreme left
heen partly ruaponsible for perpetu ting this id
cofusion Heithr, of coure, is willingto
ir that it hos nuthine in common wi th the other
sle prop.
 a tivities of eae have consiatently
ttonted to stres their lifferenees mother than tho
imil ritie  voricus ieclor ie 1 croups which
f 1l betrre: tie :
es  ve fer the most part
acceptel theer  to pieal ietietions und hove rogara
te rit lert  he extre e terrinel pointo o
a str tt lii P e os the broed field of
ideolo deal tho 
In e prctie. o v.  line vhict extend
aoroee the t le le 1 a ie pree r Jpen was pota
st
Ree  b regerded as a sem
virel one onl peint ef 
pre ectod the "fascist
catree riet n te 
point, the cosmunist
extre e left. The laesle ie alstunee whien separated
extre. o lert ero. extrse ri n we pot, therefore, the
lens ce ree e tenai rrr  cirele, wlleh passed
throu h v pie e tdeolosteel s proo ptberaliem to
son si ivie ut te exceul lerev gap et ecch
end cf e cmi-cirele.
iel ir bilged would complete
the cirele
tre rightists
r lettist  d sa inrretation of
tlor rsroetvo po:i
t politichistory of
Jeper sive ol ves T has bod meb  frequent
t rt c le ie tity  intorests of
Tdentity or Lelniss cu Rnulet Interests.
Prc. eila wr I ther  v been close similiarities
in the  is or esti i rti 's al leroists in Japan
   p     such
ele e us. In ths puricd at the lose of Verld War I
there veas  euris ixin: of the extre o in some of
the politic.1  ro ps bich
velytic
s ent we ict b ought tho two eaure  o ther ant which
therearter ucvidel a corros do.
 to their think-
ing wes beller jn te neces itr for fur-reashine inter-
nil refor To time to coce. the rit t the left
etel rrpor elou the proble_ in it: oun et cacteristio
way
*Since completing tlis memorandum, the undersigned offfoer
has read a significant article in the May 1949 1ssue (Vol
VIII, Ko 3) of The Far Eastern uarterly by Dr. B.
NIJoLaVsky. entItlen "Russia, Japan, end the Pan-Asiatio
Movement to l925", whieh, on the besis of Russian sourae
shows the remark ble affinit: between Soviet (communist)
and Japanese ("faseist") objectives in the Far East.
This article is further evidence of the extent to which
Soviet leaders realized how mich there wes in cormon
between their Far Zastern policies nd objectives and
those of the Japenese militarists
RESITD

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.81)
1949.
RESTRICTED
-7-
way. tt fr the mo part there remained st
irilar. tie  tle ends to be echieved, ana
from wopiu wa: 1 u the end cf the second World
y
P Noo R. scll h in Tle in Otob
tas the Fhret rour
rtheulir aligpon
f etreme sieh aud
ad  Lemtership roll
e  t y
The trange fusing or fedis
Cn
 extem: leit were
radr al
TAATAKE   k ( l
mo vei
and ATSUNOBU S
Ca  -ist were a numberfor
.
edentifed w
militarism
LITA
NAKANO Selgo
  .
R  Japes
iserl efrairs were
C
ut Hozon--
the cetione
S:c
n
.C....C
tis naticnal
d  end
3
insTitut
CO
Japan during
Lrge Jape-
-  and thereby
 the
to cvil2ao:
à radisal
ime
ROSO KaL
5
e vith
the mer
negative, scotic
der the
.
.hese
Ision that
e rpsed en the
sred na seaness re de srctre, w ts growing
Agre
= t Jps ritalism was
sither dres ivally c iified r vliminated sapitalism
were en ursent ne esaity a permenens elierment or the
Extrene ig und letv feilel to matarialize cply
taceuce of scltirual disagr seceus cver the means ty
whi h the sud wes to be auhreved. Other issues, toth
releted and extrar vcus, el werked against the fusion
of sxtreme
RESTRICTED

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.91)
no. 602, September 1,
1949.
RESTRICTED
of ext:eme left and ri  into a permanent anti
capitalist reformist front. For cne thing, the now
gener tion of rightists coupled their program of
internal referm witn the clder naticnelistic doctrime
of aggressive oversens expansion, and like the Yamato
putists sf the kokusui huzon schocl, they also took th
Emyerer system with all its religlous and pseudo-
religicus impli ations as one of the cardinal points
in a reformed Jopan. At the came time, the extreme
left wing of the intereer referm exponents more and
more approache the pre lem frem the standmoint of
Marxist theory wtch ha her with the concept of a
reform progre uder he Emyeror stem. Fur thermore,
as  preresee ct 
oveleped vithin
the left wina und t ox the ah e pf  formal communist
party by ly the left pma jeelopel direet and close
assectations with the S  tat th icn through the Comintern.
Because of traditen: t. red  jistrue! ef Russia
among capanese ne lenellvts, pur toularly the newer
dyna i: seneratren w pse prsp wm of artl-rapitalistic
relerm vee linied wiiu pverse expension in areas
contaae  wit. the Sovier Dat
the Soviet-affiliated
artic lu: y distrusted.
Thus sr was pever po ie fe the eytoeme right
and the extreme left to cl e
he rarrow eap which
separeted ther, t i ss here
marsed lmilerity
if net setal agr ment en te mecsssity e reform
er break do the capitois sa in apan. Never-
theless. in the years whleb feth owed there was fre
quent iurermingling of foce inetimes conselously
and somet mec unconscicusly
Since the genaral ain ef the cummuniat left in
Japan is fearly well mterstet! there i no meed to
disouss ite pree am here. Wha: is far less well under-
stood. however. is the pregram or the new generatlon
of rightists which aypeared af:er World War 1 end how
closely the demesti:  sects f trs program resembled
that save.ated by the  mmuni'
The basie philcst y which metivated the activi-
ties of the new eenera ion cf right-wing reformers may:
be expressed in the sinale phrase Showa Ishin, or Showa
Restcration. As the feudal pewer of the T  ngawa
Shogunete was broken by the revolution of ww P tmmonly
known as Meli: Ishin or the restoraticn of the Emperor
Meij1 t power, so by the 1920's it was necessary, by
ancther equally significant revelution, to break the new
politicc-economic power based on modern capitalism and
thereby again restcre the Emperor to his true position
of power und influence.
In othe: words. it was held that through the operation
of western
RESTRICTED

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
no. 602,. September 1,
1949。
RESTRICTED
-9-
of western capitalism a new economic shogunate in the
form of industrialists, bankers, powerful landlords end
economic monopolists - the so-called zaibatsu - had
come to acquire real power in Japan, and hed thereby
usurped the sovereignty of the Empercr. Tre existence
of this powerful plutocracy. manipuleting the govern-
ment tarough puppet political perties tc its own ad-
vantage, was responsible for the poverty and hardship
of the urban and rural masses.
Kita kki is best representative of the new genera-
tion of radicsl reformers who brought the thinking of
the extreme right into such clcse proximity to the ex-
treme left. Kita began his career at Wusede University
as a disciplf of the leftist tescher SAkAI Toshihiko,
one of the  ic. eers in the pre-communict sceielist move-
ment in Japan. rom Wasede Kita Went to China where
he plunged into Chinese revolutienory activity follow-
ing the l9lo upheavel. Kite's politicsl outlook wes
shaped by the radical socialian of Saksi snd the revo-
lutionary philosophies of Dr. SUT Yat Sen. By the end
of Worla War I he hed formulated a redicel program for
the reform of Japan. In 1919 he met Dr OrawA Shumei
in Shanghai, who had likewise been strongly influenced
by the wertime soc ialist movement in Japan. Okawa was
tremendously impressed with a manuseript Kite had pre-
pered outlining far-reaching refcrms of the Japanese
political end economic structure, Thrcugah Okawa's
ass istance the manusoript was privately published in
Suanghai under the title Mippon Yaize Mean Taike
(General Principles for the hecanstraetien of Japan).
Cepies of the book were brought to Japan snd seoretly
cireulated emong extreme rishtist und leftist elements
which had composed such organizstions as the Roso Kai.
Kita's fameus beok propoaed e srend seele unifi-
cation of all groups and fastions under the Emperor.
the netionalizetion of industry. restrictions on the
holding of privete property, perticipation of employees
in management (a forerunner ? present dey commmunist
demands for production end menagement control), sharing
of fifty percent of prcfits by employees in private
enterprises. an eight hour working day the protection
of tenent farmers, old ege benefits. equal pay for women
in industry, and the return of sll the Euperor's property
holdings to the State. Although Kita's ok was to be-
come the Bible of the young officers snd other extreme
rightist reformers, there is considerable similarity
between what he advoceted in l91? and the generel prd-
gram of the Japan Communist Party in the 1920's. In
a special report prepared by the Civil Intelligence
Section. Generel Headquarters, Far East Conmand, en-
titled Left Wing - Right Wing. Japanese Iroleterian
Politics, pages 38-41, Kite's program end thet of the
Japen Communist Perty are set forth in perallel
columns, What strikes the reeder is not the differences
between
RESTRICTED

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.98)
nu. ous, Deptemver 1,
.1949。
RESTRICTED
-10-
between the two programs but the remarkable similarities.
On general principles for overall political and economio
reform, Kita and the Communists were not far apart.
By the early l920 s, however, the close left-right
fraternization which had characterized such groups as the
Roso Kai had become less marked. The rightist radicals
had combined revolutionary internal reform with Tennoism,
pan-Asianism, and continental expansion. The leftist
radicals, the Communists, had combined revolutionary inter-
nal reform with Marxism and close affiliation with the
Soviet Union through the Comintern. The two radical extremes
were heneeforth kept apart largely because of divergent
and irreconcilable differences in their "foreign policies".
Their internal programs continued to have much in common,
with capitalism the target both ettacked.
The Roso Kai. besides representing the first signi-
ficant combining of extreme left und right in Japan, was
also the forerunner of a new type of rolitical society,
the direct action groups, which appeared in the late 1920's
and 1930"s. They were distinguished from the older nation-
alistic and expansionist organizations like the Kokuryu Kai
in that they represented a more direct unicn between the
younger generotion of radical reformers in the Army, the
so-sslled "young officers", and malcontent civilian reform-
ists like Kite and Okawa. Moreover. the primary objective
of these newer groups was the fundemental reforn of the
Japanese state
Teancism and everseas expansion were, for
the most purt, of secondary or incidental importance.
The new ror e which appeared in the army is commonly
referred te as the Tosei Ha, Literally the "Control
Faction". It was sssentialiy a reformist element and
became affil ated. thrcugh the new type patriotic societies,
with civilian nationalistie reformers In any careful sur-
vey of the hundreds of patrictie societies which appeared
in these years, what stands out most sigrificantly is their
anti-capitalistie character. Hach one of these many groups
generally announced a broad set of political and economic
principles. For convenienee, it is possible to make a fairly
comprehensive survey of such organizations and their programs
in publications like Dantai Soran and similar organization
yearbooks which appeared in Japan. while the programs of
these groups ranged from demands for a Showa Restoration to
agricultural refora, from advocacy of Nippon Shugi (Japanism)
to overseas expansion, almost all of them attacked the
prevailing economic and political structure, the zaibatsu,
political parties, and parliamentary politics. Drastic
reforms in these fields were the sine gua non to any
realization
RESTRICTED

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure to Tokyo'
no. 602, September 1,
1949.
RESTRICTED
-11-
realization of the Shcwa Restoration, enhancement of
Nippon Shugi, or progrem of continental expansion.
Significantly, except omong a relatively few organizatio
anti-communism was nct emphasized. This cannot be
explained, however, by any deliberate recognition of the
merits of communism. or any favorable attitude toward
Marxist 1deology. Rather, it must be explained by the
conviction that capitalism. not coumunism, was the reàl
obstacle to the kinl of internal reforms desired.
3. Influence of Soviet Concerts of State Planning
By the early l93o s ralicsl ruformers in Japan, whethor
of the extreme right or the extrome left, became profoundiy
Influonced by nevly-inaugurated soviet ideas of state
planning. Edward Hallett Carr in. his recent book The Soviet
Impact on the Western World (194?) believes that the
princIpal economic Impact of the Soviet Union on the
western world cun be summed up ir one word "planning".
The inuuguratien of the first Seviet Five-Year Plan in
Octoter Toss marked +he beginnins cf a deliberate, overall.
nationwide erfort to plan with the nation as the economio
unit in the interests of en ancing the political, economio
and military power of the state. The comprehensive nature
of such planring. its ull inrlusive scope and the tangible
results the Russlans were atlo te achieve hed a profound
influence on the thinking of the Japanese. Regardless of
how much the nationalist end rigntist reformers may have
disliked and distrusted the Soviet Union, they could not
but admire this overall atteek on a natión s economic
problems and to believe t'..: windlsr methods of state plan-
ning woula selve Japan s econce nortcomings.
The enforr ement of anythine ompareble to Soviet
state planning in Japan reguired the exercise of full
politicul power. Japunese refermists however. were
far from enjoying ful! politic  power. Standing
between them and the realization of their hopes were
entrenched political powere b sed upon traditional capi-
talism. This in turn further intensified the anti-
capitalistic feeling of the rightist reformers at a time
when Japan was in a period of acute economir depression.
The first Japanese opportunity to experiment with the
new methods of state planning came with the Japanese
Army's conguest of Lanchuria in 193l-32 and the establish-
ment of the State of Manchukuo under the control of the
Japanese militarists. Through the Manchurian adventure,
the reformist Tosei Ha within the Army came into power,
and the new State of Manchukuo under its undisputed
control
RESTRICTED

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.94)
no. 602, September 1.
1949.
RUSTRICTED
12-
control offered on ideal opportunity for experiments
in stave piannins Taus Hanchukuo soon had its Tive-
Year Pian" aai although anchurian state planning was.
not directly popied from the Soviet model, the idea of
such planning und the general prineiples which governed
it were of Soviet inspiretion. State planning as it
was undertaken in Men huris represented an extreme form
of sociel sa non of economic life in which there was
little or no roo. for orthodox cepitalistic activity.
Thie soon be   bit: iue betwoen the Manohurian
reforners and conservative Japensee who adhered to accep-
ted napitelicti: principles of eccnomy Later the Army
reformiote ware coupelle to mod ry pheir plans to
inclule sone " urital lsti parti iration" in the deve-
lopment of Lan saria. but the seeds of Soviet-inspired
state planaing he: been firialy  lacted in Japanese think-
ing and i. the peried which flowel the outbreak of
hostilitic: with Ci ine in uly. le3? mere and more efforts
were made to atrodtme stace plarnine into the domestio
economy of Japan proper
By te enl of t toso s te Soset Ha retormists
were virtually i omplst entrol of Japaa, and con-
servative papitelietit res t nre to their program of
reform was rupidiy bre kina dovn t the same time,
through tight police  at ro)s. tne Jupanese communist
movenent had een ull put er li at i But it wes not
entirely pelice presuure whice rrau ed the conmunist
mevement. hile tr more recaluitrant Courunists were
Imprisened or forcei to flee to exile in the Soviet
Unicn a creut many more edontaule raatrals ip Japan
were able to tridge the ahert cin which separated com-
munism from sxtzene aasionalier and joinea the rtgntist
Toset Ha camp as nationa? sosis Ists By the 1930"s
there was a remarkable acgree of laeelogical accomodation
found in Japan. fer the so cal d "senversion" of Japanese
Conmunists to nationslism was nst suah a difficult or
phenomenal step as wes sometines imagined. This was
solely because of the chsracter of Japanese nationalism
at this time for the reformist prograu of the rightists,
especially their alnost complete scceptance of state
planning efter the Soviet model ad created in the
nationslists cemp an ideological atmosphere which conven-
iently suited the temperument of vany extreme leftists.
With but minor adjustments in their thinking. many Japanese
leftists found that they could work as comfortably and as
effectively with the rightist reformers as they had with
their communist comrades
There is also evidence to indicate that Soviet
politicul leaders fully appreciated this situation.
Outwardly of course the Soviets ettempted to encourage
and support the outlawed, underground comunist move-
ment in Japan and denounced the tenkosha (turncoats)
who had deserted the Communist Party for the more
attractive
RESTRICTED

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.95)
. ,  
1949.
RESTRICTED
-13-
attractive ranks of national-socialism. But inwardly
or secretly. it appears that the Soviets were not
alarmed by this situation which they regerded asa
heaven-sent opportunity to build up a formidable
communist firth column within the structure of
Japanese national isn. is the new comunist dootrine
formulated at 1he Seventh Comintern Congress in 1935-
the popular front strategy - callod for coomunlst
utillzation for what they were worth of any end all
elements oppesed to fusciem it is very likely that
the Seviets realisel thet the recical reform program or
the extrmem righ: in Japun could slso be exploited for
ultimate communist ends cince cany of the internal
political and erenomis reforms whiri. the Tosei Ha advoe
cated were in the final aslyss screptaple to communiem
or at least couli serve as taterin steps toward the ulti-
mate communist goal. In other woras. it must have been
apparent to the Soviets ss well  to many Japanese
leftiets and Couruniano thet he radical reforms proposed
by the Tesel He should be utilized for whst they were
worth hamery as the nost eff e ive device currently
available to teat rcy Japan e capitalism. Once Japanese
oupitalisr wee shsed by the Jopenese nationalists
themselvee, the tr nsirion to orthoaex communism would
be a relatively easy step.
There ts no direct evisience et present evailable to
support this petrpret tten on   nist strategy toward
Japan in the 1e30 s but wany intornal Japanese develop-
ments in this perled strongly sungest thet suen a line
of action was foilowea by +he Japatese Communists. In
summing up the reslts of pavustis tion into the Cabinet
Planning Boari In ident of 194l 'described in deta1l
below!. the cfficl 1 report of the Home Ministry's Police
Bureau conciudes with his signific nt remark: "Desirous
of taking edvantage or the cpportunity afforded by
national reform ofter the Manohurian Incident, the commun-
tst sympathizers not wishing to abandon Marxism nor being
able to devote themselves to an illegel party movement
due to the constant d nger of arrest masqueraded their
movement through util:zation of covernment pr sitions.
Thie was the reople's front strateey as suggusted by the
International Conmunist Party." What this Police Bureau
report did not apparently detect was the renarkable ease
with which communist sympatnizers ani leftist were able
to penetrete the renks of the rightiet reformers. With
but minor adjustments in thinking. it wes possible for
such leftists to meet the qualifications of their
rightist employere. They were qualiried because they
were fully cognizant of the need for internal reform
In Japan and had positive ideas and programs to offer
for such reforms. Men with such qualifications were
welcomed by the rigttists because both found they had
so muoh
RESTRICTED

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.86)
inclosure to Tokyo's
No. 60..,. September 1.
1949.
RESTRLOTED
-14-
SO
in o mon in cheir criticism of Japanos
ism
TII
Duv lop nt of Lueas of State Planning
i i t e in the period ufter 1935 wo
into t e :  rs oi : Pacifie Var, the Japanese publ
was surpricei uy unneunee onts of the errests of momb
of so  unist piss t rroups within the goverment 
Thut a ll-r sed co mnist el ements wor
able to c rate i in the r: erork of Japenese nao
1sn
po polics detection for
Pone rrieis 
crly in pert to the soourt
pree utic eel
 comunist factions
The remarke be t mcity to e.
on vi rany of thon
ths sstent to which
their
ivity were in such seom
to litrin rightist
trona of tre
s.ops
 ativity within the
in the vrious offioler
pelite
resc re groups whick
ir.
The rgearch
grout
peculic.
in igenous
tye
lorger more corporate
be lessue
 ncRese reh Institute
(a wutstuie cr tie v t mi: subiehi bu ness interests)
and tte foro Ros:  Burecs of the South Menohurla
Ruilway Como my  ere  ter : Larsuly  Ster the researoh
ofrices devetopea  re 1  Gos n trading firms. or
s 
Lhe Rectoet Bureau of the South
Panchurie Rullway pme vei parti  rly sasoeptible to
red infiltration
i is ci iien to re eureh organiza
tione uste   heu or ponecrei by tre lorge economio intorost
there alas dovelori in J . re rs of a more restricted
and pivo 
Soue wer subss lized or assisted by
co. merciul vonee ns  ch as  Okawa Shumei's Toa Koizei
Kenkyujo, (tihe Jast Asia Heonomie Researeh Institute)
which was bac ei y the South Munchurie Re ilway; others
were in effe t the private reseursh staffs of political
lesdero uuh us Prince Koroe's Showe Kenkyu Kai. Through
the politiel le ers whc supported thes, many or these
organizations thus su uired  seri-official status. There
were also, of ccurse. number of researer organizations
offiei lly established by the governent some of which,
like the Carinet Iavestig tion Bureau (later expanded
into the Cabinet Planning Boad), were integrul perts of
the goverr ent strueture.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.87)
kno, suro to Toryos
no. 602, September 1,
1949.
RESTRICTED
The semi-sfficial resesrch staffs of pelitlo
leaders  ere the most typicsily Jananese and at th
time played a cost important behind-the-scenes role
Japenose pelitics. The Shovt Kenkyu Kas was the
Proin Trust cf Frincs Konce, and the significant part
it played in the 193t's as n agency f communist in
trati. at the tep echelon of govarrment service do
Indeed pnarkatle. The Shova Ker avy Kai, however
represcuaed but ne of a series cf semf-official
reseerchh greups, the meique a tivities of which, hea
unter ne mare or enuth er
n1 ed from 1935 to
the present dey. fhroughout tu is shifting pattern
of "resear h" cetivity runs
readcommunis
intrigue
The prineipel elemants "ic. vonstituted the
research vativity pnce senterei ahut Prince Konoe
may for ake of convenience if
rbe reduced
to the f:llevars sehenatte or
1237
-      —
S K
.Soe Espion
Ring
-t: Planning Board
ade Faction)
1142
Doiv
Plenning Daard Ir:
Sere E
Chosa Kenky Dein Hombu
: Cabinet Pianning Doard
 Kyote Imperrl University
lissulved at end of
W
3
Chagcku Kenkyuge
Seiji Ke) caa Kenkyug
Kyoju Guru
(Professors!
RESTRICTED

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure to.Tokyo'
no.'602, September 1,
1949.
RESTRICTED
-16-
2. Research Groups end State Planning
The advent of the Nichi-Man Zcisei Keizai Konk
in 195 cume at a time when the totalitarian rerommu
were having their first try-outs wit' state plannin
in Nanchuria The Nichi-Man Zaisei Keizai Kenkyu
was established largely bec use of richtist intere
in state plenning for the rurpose of conduotingin
vestir tiene i to the possibility of state plannin in
Jupan proper as well cs the future possibilitfes of
coordinatin the stute-planned esoaomies of Japan
and Nanchukuo. Able economists, sspeci. lly those
parti I to the "neve." eeon i"
cories of state
cuntrol, were rearuit t. h organizstion which
had close connections with the Tosei He element In
the ry. the risine generation of tot litsrian bureau-
r-te.  nd ympathetio clements rong publicists,
statesien uni patrioteers Tie Nichi-Man Zaisei Koizai
Kenkyu Kai w: s also clo el frilisted vfth a top
i vel polftical coterie non es t'e sameshi Kai
(Breadf at Club).
In 195e the Nichi-Man Zaisei Keizsi Kenkyu Kai
was issolved because of sonneetfons of some of Its
s. prorters vith the Febru ry Seth milit ry revolt.
The folloving year, however its reserreh ectivity was
resumed under a new name
In ti veur, shortly after
he beea e Premier in June, Prince Konoe's Intimate advisory
r le organizea the Showa Kentyu Kai Significsntly,
Clll hidemi  pe"s chfer alviser on Chinese affairs
vus t. e leading .  in this new srour By the middie
of l94l the Show. henkyu Lai was ore d to disband because
of the involvetent of some of its key figures in the
Cabinet Planning Board Incidcat and the orge Espionage
Case Almost immedietely, however a new stuuy sroup,
the Toa Kenkyujo. apreared to carry on where the Showa-
Kenkyu Ksi had been foreed to leave off.
The Toa Kenkyujo was one of tho few research groups
in which conmunist elc ments 'ere able to the refuge
during the war. for the Cabinet Planning Bourd Incident
end the Sre  pionace Ctse had necesci tated extrene
caution on e pert of the leftists in government service.
The Toa Kenkyujo was issolveu at the end of the war.
Three important research roups have appeared in the
rostwar period as lineel descendents of the Nichi-Man
Zaisei Keizai Kenkyu Kai, the Showa Kenkyu Kai and the
Toa Kenkyujo These are the Chugoku Kenkyujo (China
Research Institute), the Se:ji PelzaI Kenkyujo (Politi-
cal and Economic Research Institute) und the more infor-
mal Kyoju Gurupu (Professors' Group) All of these
organizations contain cembers who were once affiliated
with one or more of the previous research bodies. The
postwar organizations, however, have become more openly
leftist
RESTRICTED

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.92)
o. u, s,
.1949.
-17-
RESTRICTED
leftist and ccnmunist i. their policies and activi
ties and have a much lerger leftist membership.
These sreups frim 1935 to the present day have
tren engsged i varicus types of state planning
reseerch under pffi il or sent-sfficial suspices.
State plans o one ype or arothher have ranged from
agrerlan refe m to "apiritual" mebilizatior. movements,
tut all have had an urmistakably totalitarlan charec
ter. Ali the srsups have slse represented a peculiar
meeting cf ex reme leftist end rightist mertalities.
The greups srvarlabiy have haa menbers closely
affilisted with the powerful Contrcl Faction (Tosei
Ha) in the Army, the Shin Kanry  Hew Pureaucrats,
and totelitar lar schr lars mary or vi.cm concealed
their extreme leftist views rder s clsak ef mili-
tant ratlonalism. of some hat Iimited mental capacity,
Prince K:a:e tried to surround himself vith able
men. Hi: ccie of at
ver. as a rule was
unforturate, cnd the ecilatin; Prinseures as often
as nct unable to reccncil. the conflictina cpinions
t? his multi viewed crunselcrs.
Prinee Reree hell the premlership Tum Fune 1937
t Januamy 1939, en1 again from ly 194c to
Octcber lgal. Thecc were mum at us years in Japan's
domesti: and foreien afrairs. ard ths Prince s Brain
Truss, the Srowa Keny Ke aces dinelyy assumed a
positicn of areet slgrffi an e. Ar lrest twe major
toiar ttartrn po icies :ame cut of snls ressarch group
the Wati nal Mot:liration Movement curing Kence's
first premi-r stap end the so-callad Shin Taisei. or
New Stru. ture in his se na paministretion whioh soon
became sy: temavized in the Inr rial Rule Assis tance
Asoeti(IRAA).
The New Struc ture veprecented she beldest step
yet made by the refermists to implemert an everall
totalatarian plar. for Japan. The Hew Structure and
the RAa c:nvenlently sulted  "faseist" label, and
in the mirds ef mest Amorirar- er meln as Jopanose
1l1 prctatly be egard- tfor years'e come as the
true manifestatisn of faseisn in Japan. It therefore
Seems a acst preposterous to suggest that the IRAA
was of c:mmurist origin. Nevertheless, th t is what
Konce himself later ame to believe, anl historieal
evidexce, new available. str-ngly suprorts that belier.
The crig-ral plen for the Nev Strusture, known
es the Arima Plan. was presumerly drafted by ARIMA
Yeriyasu, on- of the more pinhish members of Prince
Kence's strarge entcurage. Actually, however. Arima
merely put a few finishing touches n a dreft plan
and gave it his name. The original plan was the work
of ncre other than Ozoki Hidemi. a devoted Communist
who at the
RESTRICTED

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.95)
no. 602, September 1,
1949。
RESTRICTED
-18-
who at the time was in the service of the Cominter
end  key figure in tce Sorge espionage network.
might be charged that Ozaki proposed such a "fasoim
progrem as further cover for his communist and ospios
nage astivities. Yut during his trial after his ar
in October 194l. Ozaki frankly testified that he had
working for a"reorganized" Jepan which he hoped would
eventually join hands with the Soviet Union and dom
nist China in  vast red coalition against capitalf
Ozak: plainly sdmitted that an orthodox communist rej
lution was impossible in Japan, end he had, accordiny
worked for a more sr dual ci ne within the framework
Japan's militant nutionelism md co called "rightist"
ideolcg" wni n Ozak1. snd un uustionably his Soviet
masters, were convineed vas s far more feesible course.
The IRaa, however, did t develop along the lines
Ozaki had originally outlined Tn Maruh, 1941, the
orgenizatier was considerably overhauled, resulting in
the purging of suct pinkish officers es Arima and Goto
Ryuncenke. Iuen of the later hange io the TRaa was
the werk of such men us MUTo Akira SUsTSUGU Nobumasa,
and lnsHIMoto Fingco wh decided to make the IRAn a
militeristi: political  rty efter the Nazi pattern.
To some lerree this wes  chiev i throuch a niumber of
subseguent reorgan zations , ith the result that the
IRAA eventunlly a uired wat w have been pleased to
call e mere Fascist cr Nas charatter.
Throughout the v rious urti vit:es of the research
groupa. some cf wit h led to such totelitarien inno-
vations es the Ih: one  sicnally  cues across subtlo
references to a vagus unler v ng called the Gojunen
Keikaku or Pifty-Year Ilan ue term was never publi-
cized and was prol bly used susrdedly only among the
most intimets groups of tot lit rian planners. Exactly
what the Fifty-Year Plun iled for is nct known, and
it is quite likely that ths rain-trusters who used the
term were not themselves  "eed on its details or scope.
According to Kr. Iwabuchi, the Fifty-Year Plan was
first discussed in Tosei Ha circles about 1935 and was
probably one item on the a enda of the Niehi-Man Zaise1
Keisat Kenkyu Ka! when that orgnizatio was established
Targely under Tojei Ea auspices. Mr. Iwabuchi believes
that the plan called for a complete reorganization of
the Japanese state along strictly totalitarian lines,
based upon a system of overail state planning of the
type initisted in the Soviet Union, with which experi-
ments were already being attempted by the Japenese mill-
tary in Manchukuo. With the reorganization of Japan's o
political and econcmic structure after such a pattorn,
an effort
RESTRICTED

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.86)
no. 602, September 1,
1949:
RESTRICTED
-19-
ar effort would be made, by war if necessaryy o
bric: Chica and all of South East Asia under Japanese
cortren for the prrpose of driving out European
and Americas impsrialistic and capitalistic inrla-
en es and crganizi shese areas under a totalitarion
sys ten which would nake them fit convenlently into
Far Easter: totalIcarlan tl under Japanese leadors
ship. Only ineidentauly did the plan cuntemplate atpy
enflt with uhe iet union in such an undertekeing
The plan a,
f t.a s erfrt to sta
lish patter  so at panmins Lut on en intor
naticnal. reglcn
Whr tually ame to be
known s the "Gr Eest 
-Presperity Sphere"
prebai y hai :
atn or cutgrowth
of the Fifty Ya Pla. s d
 in the confines
of var ter  
ain trst cliques.
Prime K
s e the various
Prues af pelrry pat fur
le:shecus assort
ment ef aavsore let
 gass his support
to a rr rf 
creme perimp without
of theee plens.
E
to a re awaken-
 when the
 lly un
  m
 er of per-
soane? whe 'wi
a
One such
pairf dere
Fm Board
Incident and the
Esplenag ase d
 separate
cases at the time.
f a mlated evidence,
it ds be.teved the
CN
letv integrel
part f ar er to
JV.
lthent and the
The t et Irlet  br edeesser to
the Cebtret rlarnane Brard wa: statlished in 1935
abut the se e  he    Ken K
made its appeararce. L:ke
sumi crrfalal research
group. the Cabinet Inrestigatier Bureau was created
cut of demands
 "internai refern" and the establish-
ment cf a "yasi-sart ne sy sten (a somi -planned economy)
As Cemmuris ts and commuist sympathlzers teok advantage
of demands fer internal ref rm and a plaimed economy
to bere intc such research grc ip: as th- Nichi-Man Zalsel
Kelzal Kereyy Kal the establisnment of an official
goverrment ageney deveued to "reform" and "planning"
was equally attractive. With its estatlishment, there-
fore, the Cabinet Investigation Beari soon had four
wen vhem later Investigatior proved to be members of
the then underground Japen Comm rist Party: OkuYam
Teijircy MASAKI Chifuya YANAGISAWA Zenji, and
KaTSuMaDa Seiichi. Mr. Katsumada's name should be
noted, for in the postwar period he reappears as an
importan
RESTRICTED

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.85)
no. 602, septmber
1949。
RESTRICTED
-20
the Econ mr. Stab Lhon for. Foard.
Ouher mesbere or toe c mst Party later 
the Chet ae
  its succes
the Sebsnet Plonnies
Brard
the cffiial vho bee
leader of thi. ae
leflist factich
Mr. daDA Hir
ner icd became the
htz tan Boards
The
Lennang Poarde
generelly
woprmartly
Instrumonta.
sr actv
ties s
Fer examplé
NAOI TaY
P:tion,
the Sovlet
initio
Unier fr
forms" and
"plan
group,
16UCH
Naxisy
the Japanese
ada Baction
Manchukdo
e to Japan
1947
Afte"
klon of the
wilch was
By 1938
re quently and
m
Espionage
R:
tar y unaware
of Ozakirs
 doubt
vast intelli-
that O.i
urce of
sere twk
y maring
little
Evidecee I
r rsived many
tr m urak. who
discusiors at
meetgs of the  Kn
Whe spe: tacular reve
lations of t
beiief that
Oxaki's rle wae prumarlly tat or the copionage agent
and thee Fe other
ly his close
assectaticr with the "fasolst" Jeadars
the period,
were mevely cr ver for hia eapronagr perationsa In
view ct Ozans s direat part a rrepa ine the first
draft of the tRat and o? his laver
nfess1on that he
hoped te bring abcut a "reer ant. " Japan that would
joir hands wi tn the Soviet Unier. and a Communist China
it is believed that Ozaki was actsally given a twe fold
assignment by the Com nterm One par o this assign
ment was to assist
D hara Srge  setting 
and operating a tep level espionage network: the oth
part was
RESTRIOTED

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.97)
no. 602, September 1,
1949
RESTRICTED
-21-
part was to assist the activities of Japanese rofoi
and to guide their work as much as possible along lime
best suited to long-range communist objectives.
two roles were, of course, highly complementary.
How far ada was a conscious party to the commm
nist conspiracy which led to the Cabinet Planning Board
Incident is not known. In some weys he appears very
much like Prince Konoe. fundamentally liberal in hi
thinking and open to new ideas but prone to surround
himself with a Brain Trust (the ade Faction) the truo
intents and purposes of which wers too often kept from
him. lada, howover. had the food fortune to surfer
arrest in 194l, which has encbled him in the postwar
period to cepitalire on his persecution by the militar-
Ists. Ir Prince Konce had been arrested and imprisoned
in l94l in connetion with either the Cabinet Planning
Board Insident or the Sorge Esrtonage Case, he too
might well have gnerged in the rostwar period as another
great martyr to fne liberal :ause instsad of a war
oriminal.
In 193e SHisa Hircshi, cne of the ninor members of
the Waia Faction in the Cabinet Plunning Board, organ-
Ized the Kelhin Grour. en illogal Paber crganization,
which funeticned covertly in the Tokye-Yokohama area.
As a result of this activity, he wss arre sted in Octo-
ber. Pe38, and after prolonged interrogstion by the
police, the first Loads to the ccmnanist conspiracy in
the Planniug Beerd were uncovered. Acecrdiugito
MITANILRA Takeo whe at the time served in the Polioe
Affairs Bureau of the Home minastry ne fivst dutected
evidenae of a leftist coterie in the Cabinet Planning
Board in 1940 This occurred during Nitamura"s parti-
cipation in a zudankai the typ esl Japonese type of
round-table di scussicn conducted  newspapers and
magezines Katswnnda or the Cubnet Planning Board
was another parti:ipent, end during the course of anima-
ted discussion of the lanchukuo Tive Yeer Plan and kin-
dred economic subjects, Mitamura became convinced that
Katsumade harbored extremely leftist if not communist
views. Collating the impreasions he gathered at the
zandankal with fragmentary pieces cf information slowly
being developed from leads growing out of he interro-
gation of Shiba, the Japanese police gradually were
able to fit tcgather the jigsaw puzzle of the Cabinet
Planning Boari Incident. INABA Snuzc, one of Wada's
key men in the Planning Board, was arrested on January
19. 194l. Other arrests quickly followed as new leads
were rapidly uncovered, and Jada was taken into oustody
by the police on April 8, 194l.
Strictest secrecy surrounded the investigations
and trials of participants in the Cabinet Planning
Board Inoident, but there is no doubt that Prinoe Konde
was able to keep himself fully informed of these distur
bing developments. The breaking of the Cabinet Plannd
RESTRICTED

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.95)
1949.
RESTRICTED
-22-
Bourd Incident also occurred almost at the same 
lat the Sorge Espicnage Case was uncovered, nd
 vestig tions and trials were continued simultanoou
It would require no unusual imagination to infor
possible connections between the two conspiracies.
especially as Ozaki s testimony in ccurt olearly
revealed his intimate connections with both groups
There is litile doubt there. ore, tha' the sensatioml
revelations trom the two ineidents hed a tremendous
influence on Prince Yonce. It must h ve been a atto
of great concern, let alone eub i ssment, for Konoe
to realize that two of ris clc e ssociates. one of
whom Ozaki wus also his ke: adviser, were leading
figures in ce runist conspire ics mich reached into
the top levels of the Ja anese Cove iment and for
which in the case of the es: ion e rine of Dr. Riohard
Soree there wus positive pree of Comintern direotion.
7 Jaran's Relatiocs vith the Sovlet Union.
1940-194
The unuema? character of Syiet-Jupnnese relations
in the rerica 1940.194s must slso have hod a great
influence on irince Konce s tinxing and contributed
to sene of the conclustons mapreseed in ris memorial
to the Eperor
Then capar Je ined the Tripe rtite all jance with
Germany and Ttaly 1n Sentanler 1940 thare was a keen
desire in some Japancse quarters Cor eventucl Soviet
participatlon At shis fime the Soviet -Hazs pact of
1939 had al ready provjdea what arpeared to be a most
effective besis for Nazl Co munist collaboration.
Communiets throughout the world founl reaay reconei-
liation and farlle Justification for tmis seemingly
unbelievatle union The Communisis in Japan were no
exception L oreover. at This tame any Japanese poli-
tical and military leaders locked vith favor upon a
Scviet Japanese unjeretanding mict would assure the
eafety of the Manchukuo frontiers end thereby provide
better opportunities for pio. cuting the war in China
and undertaking the uch-adv-rtized prcgran of "South-
ward Expansion".
In April, 1941 exporents of Soviet  panese
collaboration withi. the frumework of th. Tripartite
Axis Alliance achieveu an important objective when
Foreign Minister MATSUOKA Yosuke signed the Neutrality
Pact with the Sovlet Union while in Loscow on his
return from a visit to the Axis countries The German
atteck on the Sotiet Union in June. 194l was a serious
and unexpectod blow to Japanese dreams of Axis-Communist
solidarity, ut it is especially significant to note
that the Soviet-Japanese Neutrality Pact remained
unaffected until it was unilaterally renounced by Mosoow
in 1945.
Throughout
RESTRICTED

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.96)
no. 602, September1
1949.
RESTRICTED
-23-
Throughout the Paciric Har Jepan, of courae
became incressingly denendent upon the neutrality
the Sovtet Uuion situation which seriously co
plicated the handling of the Cabinet Planning Board
Incident and the Scrge Case. Nevertheloss, Janan
managed to remain on exseedingly good terms with
Soviet Union and as the Pacific Jur turned more and
more uc inst Jopan. the Japenese increased their
efforts to rutrin Soviet frtendsnip. even to the ot
of atte pting te serure Seviet intervention to end
wer.
There is no loubt thet riuc: Konoe. as well a
muny other Japanese viewed with no little conoern the
serlons predicwment into which Jepan was sinking. over
the past years. while Jupan an resorted to ruthloss
police suppression to stamp cut the communist menace.
Jupenese Conmnists fellow truvellers, and sympathizors
had penetratet the top levels cf the goverrment. Whilo
the police strove to root out from Japanese life the
prinsiples of Narxiat lueolcry. top military and
civilian leaders wers cuccunting to the attractions
of Soriet style stes planning und other totelitarian
innov tions for hich could be found. regardless of
the nanes thy lap ened to be labelled, counterparts
if not cetual uretotypes in ths Soviet Union And,
finally. it must have been disturbing to those, like
Prinee Konoe. who apparently began to see the more
subtle impllcations of this situation, to realize that,
as e result of the Pacific lur Japan was finding her-
self sc inercasingly ependent upon the goodwill of the
Soptet Union tint she wes virtually at Mosoow's merey.
This situatlon must have unguastionably suggested to
Prince Konce and otbers that Tapan was seriously run
ning the danger of eventually being taken over by the
Soviet Unton for which many of the totalitarian innd-
vations in recent yeers. like National Mobilization
and the Imperial Rule Assistance Association, could be
regarded as preparatory steps to set the stage for an.
eventual communist dictatorship on the Soviet model.
While pressure from United States militury, naval, and
air operations agsinst Japan reached the point where
the country"s more sane leudership wes coupelled to
think in terms of making peace with the United States
it is particularly signiricant that Prince Konoe's
memorial of Fe:ruary 14. 1945, which was the produat
not of his mind alone but of conferences with a number
of his associates in the so-called peace party, also
took into account the communist danger which lay behind
a foolhardy prosecution of the war to the point of total
self-destruction.
VI. Conclusis
RESTRICTED

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.89)
Enclosure to Tokyd
no. 602, September
1949.
PESTRICTID
-24-
VI.. Conclusions
Luch o the foregcing interpretation of 
Konce's emorl I  ben based on deductions
the fow feet.  nd sre  uny inferenees it is posein
to draw from them. It is, tierefere, a tentative
and in pert  ly ot otical r ther th n a derinitay
analysis Yet tlhere rears to be auffici ent vd
to warrunt e rollov ins four conclusions:
Brein Traate
Jaanes pol lecd ve  nd con
in trusts. In egau
have c remaph.hlo
to e leader's ofrici:1 sturr  cu  a Prfue kinistor
Cabinet linistor. cescice c. icr or s. individual miatot
or iliturr co mr er, te e  invesieblr a tendener
a leader to ther n hir  w  teial or extr
offieiul corre of iviurs  re sultents who are not
obligcd to sheve  le oe  ciet 1 responsibitit
und c thereby ct seountuble for the eivice they 
or te iract infine
le lny cuses 
exert They ure bo  t he lo der ouly by e kind of
personal loyalty in vetumn ror mtot the leeder gonery
assuces  kind of rerool porponciliy towurd thom
The br in t usts of ace at hde sro excellont
examples of the  npure ini eroct in thie system of
extra-orpisiul consull tion In these tro caces it
proved a copiparar Ive simple tter for te Comintern
eni the Japacoce Joacunlsts to iufiltrete cgents into
the inner sanetun of Ja uncs pol Itical laadership.
It may be assu od th t this tvecni ue is aot being
neglectod today. for tue contintea reliance of Japanese
politice1 leaders on chulcus cut ries of uneffiolal
advisere in an oit of the vo rn ent offers in this
time of obseue ilcological ac mreetions fr more
effective or ortities for eret infiltretion
The Role of t e Rese rel Grouns.
The resouroh grcups ave afrorded a comple entary
agency to the brain trusts in the extre-official real
of Japanese politics The Japarese hev lso display
a renarkable foniness for research grons, many of h
it has been sometimes ifficult to distinguish from
political orgonizations, patriotic societies, or aati
groups The conmunist cumpains for economic "reform
and such presunably rightist extremism as the Showa
Restoration were for the most pert conceived and spear
headed by verious ocrganizations operating under the
guise of "researoi" groups. Thet the Communists in
Japan found the research group an important ohannel
for promoting communism was hardly surpriaing from
what is now knowr of nownunist utilization of mo-
"study groups" in the wustern countries
3The
ESTRICTED

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.83)
1945.
RESTRICTED
-255
Crafll:ting Idecloriea
iiti1 leader in the
that omrunist and
feec st rlgies can
right circum
resceh arup pro
rreh accommoda
mmodation,
ni aims
lly
mar
t
d117
Yly minor
adjustron
them
aware
me nor
munist
Jepan
codlor adaptotion
mprwicing
scry
th the
many
there
.r.cu
cric
most pejatable
meise
Charic
N. Spinks
Fareien Service Officer
RESTRICTED

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.83)
22 AuG
ATIS, PECIAL TRANSLATION
PRIYOE YOUOE NEDRTAL TO THE THRONE
, Totsuo
From
, Ast 1948
The follovine ta the lste Prince Toros Fueimarole
nenorial whior re prercntei to the Tirone upen procood
in to the Imperlsi p: luce in  spoace to the Emperor's
swrons on 1! Fel 15,Lon all  ope in the Pecifio War
hod disapperre
e onthor rekes publie this memoriel,
firatly, to shot,  bo peen ln ris renueorip
the confpontet cet  tie  aalds cur rently waged
as a "coia er" i not a  eo s  to tre postower
period,utie 
urinorld Wer II
it is leeply impressed
and seeo a), Lo 
on the int of 
ti rault cf biine perse
cuter by the cr y tn co
iou irh thinuscript end
the verious situ tioas
11ch
foune
lf during
the air rsics
meerle to tae T rone
Tre late Prshe
resds
co e taevi-
hiI lave
17. but
yel
En lien end
strere
reactee the
in
(ure) where
forete.
 le nded
e : 1.
so. for
if the
jer u the srob
ity, that which
conern is not defeat
1b1cs
5
niatie reve
do estic and foreign
advaneine toward a
ovlet Uo'on is caking
ourtry.The Japanese
o conce ticn of soviet decigns,
peole t ly
Lut tre t vlency to look licrtly on the dansers
of Selch vization . ss become pronounced cince the
conmuntsts sloptel the people's front, or two-
stased rev luti s:, strateny in 1935, snd pertiou-
lori si. the t cisaolotier of the Comintern.
Thi is   riciel a opttmistio wey of
viewing the situesion
"It is obvious

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.95)
"It is obvious from the recent undimgula
menuevering of Russie in the various Europoon
ccuntries thct she hes not abendoned ter polioy
of world rolshevizction.
"kussie is pro otin the scheme of esteb-
listing e oviet ype of  overnnent in her
neichboring countries, or st least, pro-soviet
communist governments in the other Euroneen
countries; e.d in this slie liss realized consider
able success. is concrete evilence, the Tito
sovernment of vugoslavia is a most typicel mani-
feststion of this  lan. : for Tolend, Russia
vent ahead and e teblished a  covernment bulit
around tre Tolist Refugees' Le: ue whier had been
prepered eforeh: nd in Soviet torritory without
the lecst rerrd for the overment in exile in
incland.
"Althoveh ber er istice terms wit Rurenie,
Fun ary end Fiuland eppear to be besed on the prin
ciple of non-interferenee ia the domestio politi-
cel affairs, she as cernacs the dissolution of
oreenizetions wiici had su ported ritler. This
actually means thct no enti-roviet overnment con
exist in trsce countries. Cre forced tre ceneral
resignatior of the Trr der Gabinet because Iren
would rot acguler ce to "ussien de lsnds regerding
oil ricrts end intereats "oreover, the Soviet
Union flstlr rejected the vwiss proposel to esteb-
list diploustio relations, forvardine ss the rea-
son the pro- yis nature of the Swiss covernuent
and their forcin t resi,  tior of the inister.
"In France, Pelgium ard "olland under Anglo-
Americen occupetion, severe fichting rsges between
the government aad ermed rebel groups whier were
used in the battle egeinst Cermany, driving these
countries into a politicel crisis. The rebel
leaders are chiefly communists. It seems the Soviet
design regerding Cermany is to establish a new
government centered around the Free Germany
Committee, which hsd been resdied beforehand, as in
the cese of Polend, creating meny reedaches for
Americe and Pritain. In this manner, Russie, while
outwardly maintaining a stand of non-lnterferenoe
in the domestic affairs of other "uropean countries,
is in fact precticing excessive intervention along
this line and is attempting to guide the internel
politics in thest countries toward a pro-Soviet
attitude.
"The Soviet Union has similar designs on East
Asia. Mosoow had dispatched CFAO (NCSA Sanzo)
to Yenan to form the Japan Liberation League, and
now this Leagu

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.92)
- 3 -
now this Lec ue is making overtures to Japan in
conjunction wit the Yorean Independence Federa-
tion, the Torean Volunteer Army, the Formosan
Vanguerd r.r, sto.
"Judrin fro: this situation, there is the
great danger of vossible oviet interference in
Jepanese demestie effsirs in the near future,
n amely, the officiel recc nition of the Communist
Party, demsns for e co munist cabinet as was
seen in the cases of ti e de ceulle and Badoglio
governsente, ab lis'wont ef tie Publio Peece Main-
tenance Law and the Anti-uom unist Pacts, etc.
The predual rise of vericur os itious conducive
to the mecoopliahrent of  ca mistic revolution
cen be ceen deily inside our vountry, concitions
such ec ir overirhed livin, lnererre in the voice
of th worhing elr sses, s pre-Russien sentiment
berira the risine feelin  catility tovards
Amerlen snd Pritein, reter vrverents by certain
groups withir re wilite  sad tre rvement
initlened by the so-oriles "ee burt nuersts" to
tal sdvantige ot the for r. ans tre undersround
activity of left-win mler  nts meneuvering behind
the seener
"of shese, most serlous poesideratlon must be
civen to tre oven ent of the refornist prcups in
our ersy, for e ler e n tor of tre youneer officers
believe fret cur ar tionel polity io compatible with
comunisr, end t ir cone ption of s puformation
is founded o tris point Tecause our protessional
soldiere, for the trt ort co  from fomilies of
the middle class end belor veny of then live under
conditious wi ier  ke the soceeptible to cotmunier
tie doetrines
ereover, see use trey Lave been
thorou hly inbuch with net onelism to bhe exelusion
of sll el-e throu a th ir  ilitery treiniag, the
cosuni ste ere tryinp te  in th er over with the
theory thet conmmunism am our netional polity are
compstible
"I believe it is new evident that the outbreak
of the  mehurien Incid nt end the China Incident,
which epruad, lesding to the reeter  ust Asie War,
was deliberately planned b this grotp witlin our
army. It is a well known fact t' t they publicly
declared at the time of the Manchurian Incident
that their ain was a reformation within Japan.
Again, it vas a leader of tris croup who openly
declared, during the Chins Incident that "The
longer this incident is rrolonged, the better.
If it is settled now, it will not be possible to
carry out a national reformetion." Although the
objective of this army reformist fact is not
necessarily

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.84)
- 4 -
recessarily a comunistic revolution, it is not
wront to look upon that seetion of government
offieicls and the poople who surround them, be
they left-wing or bre rigrt-wing they all unhold
a communisx ais uised by a cloak of nationelism,
es herboring deliberate designs to guide these
soldiers into a communistie revol tion.
"Tris is the conslusion I arrived et recently
after gut stl, tapleetir over the pest ten years
of cortout e. variour rtters in wvery field with
ilitary offie alde., cri t e eat-ona rigl t-wings.
Loo! ine t ek cn vvants dun tn this poriod with this
cohetustep a   peet or or inrs come
to m
"purje this perio,  uwoutr on twice
recei wa i perial mss teter to for: a etbinet, but
to avetn frletion withis  eountrr. end becsuse
of  overn taty to reclle alir artiorel unity,
I rupe as  s T   r  rse by trese
refopdete, ene s  p T as p folly see
the uin the r r r serttone whis
we cole ue t   ef o ity un incxousable
foult ou  yert
 sospl conscj ous of my
reoponstrarty
"Soye tettlofront
becoves ter serfo, the r fora clorious
fioht unto ceut sf sal ta poople sreaally mounts.
whis is oe ton et the e t in ere, cut insti-
cetiny t o fro co nd tr roere are tre comat-
rists ho plon to o   rte ewfusion
in oraler te  iove thearim, that is, a povolution
Alony miu the err for te trool o ihiletion of
'merlee end Briusin on one rd, on tre ether pro-
Russien aunti ente ere beer ai atronger
It is
reported that one seotion of ths eray is even in
fever sf foirirs  ends  it sussie,  hesuver seeri-
fics euek e movs aey ent il, vlile othurs propose
a coslition vit. vnar
"In the rfore cntio ed punuer, il concitions
fevoralle to a vo munistic revclution are ripening
deily, both  it ir ana sutride tle cou try, and
shoula the wer develop to our dicadv itoge here-
after, this situstion vill rapidly resch ssrious
proportions It would be a different matter if there
were even e ray of hope for victory, but assuming
that ve face inevitable d feat, to contirue a hope-
less war eny longer is to play into the 'ands of the
communist party Accordimaly, from the standpoint
of protecting our netional polity, I firrly believe
that the wer must be terrinated as soon cs possible.
"The greatest

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.93)
-5
"The greatest obstacle to terminating the
is the roup within the army, which led our nat
from the 'anchurien Incident into the present
situation, for I believe that although they have
lost their confidence in continuing the war, they
resist to the lest for fear of losing face
(persona) lonor). If steps were taken in heeto to
end the e wit'out first elirinuting this group
in the er y, the  neer evists tret the left-and
rigt-win le ents wil cooperate to throw the
country jnte utter vonf sien sking it diffioult
to schieve the ori inel olj etive. Accordingly,
the first prurequisite to ter inatin: the war is
the climicstion of this roun. Purge them end the
opporturist io cover ment er cials ane left-end
rigtt-wir sl ents, vili f.  eay. since the
lsttu: I v not er et devicped pover of any
senrttiol prepertios  cre only tekine adven-
tere of tre trmy to re lis. treir own etition
strii e the rost and ile t rehes and leuves will
withcr
iis: y l : o iat cpti istic, but if the
sr is pusd, it is ot al ther ineonceivable
that ale witi the cl e i the feutures of our
aray, the ti Itude in  ric, citoin and Chungking
towerd Jerun  ir tur for Le b tter If the
cheracter of our y i: cr es and our military
policy rovisu it tens thet the erican, Pritish
and chunehine coverments wlier deelered thst their
objective is to cverthrow the Jepanese military
clique mipht reuonsider tle continucd prosecution
of the wer At eny vate, i: ce the par e of the
forementioned groups eud the reereunizetion within
the ery cre prereculsites to savin our country.
fron a courunist revolution, it is earnestly desired
thet you tale rerolute aters in tris direction."
In Feuruery, 1945, hen the lete Prince KoNoE sub-
mitted this repert to tie Trrore, Amerlcen forces had
elreedy landed at the ilf of Tingayen in Luzon, and
the Jepanese occupetion srmy in the Philippines was being
forced to retreat to the mountains. People such as
ToMINicA, Eiji, former Vice-minister of War and the
commender of the crmy special atteck corps rt the time
hed hestened back to the safety of Formos:, leaving their
soldiers behind et tre front.
The Koiso cabinet, vhich hed declared thet the land-
ing of U.S. forces on Leyte would be the decisive
bettle in the Tecific "ar, loter corrected this declera-
tion by annourcing thrt tie field of decisive battle
red been extended to every island in the Philippines
with the advence of the Americen forces to Lingeyen.
This, along with intensified sir raids on the Japanese.
homeland

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.85)
tomelend, eve the Jp se the wide-spreed impree
sion thet t's ur led are resn' ed its finel eta
She peror, we  a ci e the heri: ine of the wep
crented eudieme t et e is yIdo, Lord
Pesper of tre priv eel, oc i tot e, hen they
were prelers, d t repenrir  and sevy
officers of tie Jon riel pre!  cuart re, sud
denlv scon ie rior 
one and
esfed their ppir
 Vichiro
sud 1.
on the Str, ric
Furimaro
on the 141h, 
respectivel, ii
1r figures
suel an Teue, 
sumoned
by the uperer. el
bis re  ive the
exact datts lcue
i in deter-
minir tis det. 
oi the
writer
to t uperor's
issuin sonsss
toenner, but
this sut aot cll o
, i tis erticle.
Althomelor
 Chamberlain
oned it is
noteworthy tht ord
 al  o
attended in the ca. er ot Tr!
 ount MNO.
According to t'e iate Triuce
1 e uporor ked
him to be seeta d '
tios rele
tive to hie rer rt
ttthe mperor
neither offore
o in the .ceses
of the others ert
on: of the
queetiors nsk
"C: the Str,  poiv:
tre conerel Steff
UMEZU report 
 f the
steff of the Imp-rin!
ecording
to it, your oihi
 to that
of the Imperial  er
lieve that
reconcilistiowit
rinee
Amcrice's poliey : ir
bcole not be
satisfied until Jupare
tionc oliny is orushed and
Japen is reduced to eshes; t o pose to this Russia
harbore ecod will te roe eper ala tharefore, we must
continue to resist  pios m the support of cussia,
even if our lana is :a te nste."
Read the newsecnere cf thst y riet and the feot
thet the Japanese Arey direetsa te wer under this
policy in their outlos or the r and is o posing
Amorican operations orrinst Jspen csn be resdily seen.
For instance, they plotte to sreucs  feeline of anti-
pathy emone the public ccirst Am rics and  ei hten
war-consciousnesa arong t.e pecple by spreading prope-
gande which exaggereted Amerlocn var policy egsinet
Japan through the Pacific Society and other Investiga-
tion organs and groups. UMEzu'e report to the Empero.
which wa

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.87)
-7-
which wes in fact the pelicy of the Imperiel Gener
Headquerters, was su itted to the Throne after proj
gende to the sene effoct had been disseminated throw
the news spers end  a ebout to be carrled out as the
supreme poliey in prosecuting the war unon receiving
Imperiel seneticn
At tiet t e, t r etrstery l pred by the
Imperiel 
cisive battle
on the toe is rs te t disposed
in the pou tri or  in ere w e tre1 mountein
renses, ell to  co
urder the
General Yobi'tactor To. to
rican landing
forces, trrouI s
"r bo speer
tectier", ar t  fi
tperor was
to be tronef.rrsd i ' i
titch stand
made in the conti ont of
pport of
Russie. ep
corditional
f tre Pacifio
surreader arft
war, ot f t
 yoor of the
otomie be i, tt
rtieiresion in
tle Petsdsr deolrrt
wo tio of wer
by Rucsio i 
The Yoiss ebs 
cnmlee or 5 spril
wer due to t o of i the army
concerei the et
to cope wit seerel e trti t t et time,
the plan dree by the srmy md io surportere was
to suspend tre conatitutio.  xorctsine article
31 and deprivir tc pecyle  l ririt puaranteed
them under the co titu lo. i sider thut te army and
government officials  e elhe poe of life
and death over te ple t r ut tle suoreme commend
of the army ond ther drive e , ever vomen and
children to fi it on the frot.
The inventleetior seetis f tre Peecereh end
Investieation of  phi lizetien dguasters too the lead
in advencing preperetions te  tud Jurijlcial srounds
to exercise article ?l of the vcnstitution, while
perolled with tris tre ery c lit the cauntry into
two army distriets cstetlist d  neral ary headquarters
in Tokyo and Hiroshime and divided the country into a
number of administretive istriets threuer which the
general steff couli irectl, conurol adm istretion in
the event that American landing srculd cut Japen into
two or more parts However, ar  inister sUgIyAMA, and
Chief of the General Ftaff UMizu, Yoshio clashed over
the issue of whether the top chain of conmend should
follow a "military eaministretion" or "militery order"
system.
UMEZU, who upheld

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.92)
MMEzU, who upheld the "military order" otea
be the supreme command and thet the cabinet sho
an edministrative orgen atteched to It to act in no
dence witl. th sray's mi litery cperations. Oppeing
this, sunIvAMA cs tie minister of wer, demanded thet
the suereme com nd  trensferrel to the Minieter
Vinistry of er, vecause otherwise, tie  inister nd
Vinistry of ur vould be de I deo to a position subor
dinete to t T.perie! Genersl Fesdcuarters.
is rlin to place ti clict under tie Imperral
Cenerel reade artere as er  tive or en was a pre
erransed plet or the cr y eri the officiele of the
Planninr Poerd to e ar f sri t estelllehed gon
plete dictetorchip ov I un UMEzU replec
TOJO in the ermy, the stt pt to make ANAMI, Forechike
both Pre: jer and the Minister 1 lur us elso an attemp
to realize tis desir r  cotination or ez
es the eief of the ener tert und Na es the
Premier Durin the ToJc r ime, "Cjo neld the three
importent poata of Fremier, ar inlater, und Chief
of the seneral  trtf, cimuitencsusly. bet be was swayed
more by tre p litia i itu tie tha by the dictetes
of military wecessity Turefore in the lest steges
of the wer, the ar pi re to tri in MaM, end set
up a complete arrv iutator:rip
It wes solcly due to tue elesh between CUuIYAMA
end Umezu thet thi: plen failed Opposing UMEzu's plen,
SUGIYA boe an to s y to Pre i r YoIso "I will resign
as Minieter of Wsr I If I renember correctly, this was
about 27 Tareh Fut there as anorier recton for SUgIYAA
threatenime to resin coso, vhe sished to resain his
influence wes tryin to put Ir. HiTA, hunroku as the
premier to succeed the  cise or tinet and have himself
Instelled agein ar t  iiete ef ar. Tore had
intended to reconmend Hatn by taiing edvantege of his
prerogatives as a forrer pres r whieh entitled him to
a seat in the Jouncil of Senier Statesmen, but just at
that time, the iseue concerning the eastern end western
army commands wes taken up for discussion by the army.
The plan was to eppoint the Princes ASAkA and
FIGASHIkUnT es commanders-in-ctief of the Army command,
but it fell through beceuse of the Emperor refusing
to sanction it. The Imperial Cpinion eppesred to be
"If princes sre appointed to these posts, es represen-
tatives of the Emperor, the Imperiel Household will
be compelled to essume the rerponsibility It would be
better to avoid such e situation."
This raised the question of who shoudd be appointe
the commander-in-chief. Here, UMaZU shrewdly thought
of getting sUrIyiih and HiTA appointed to these post
with the object of appeasing UGIyA's dissatisfactio
with him. He called on HATA and asked him to persuad
SUGIYAMA to accept the post.

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.83)
-9-
If the new syste ere adopted, control or
the jurisdictior of the commander-in-chier and sod
ceptiveted by tre dea of rolding a post fer moro
important th tret or : inister of Yer, immediety
egreed with it er  told im, "There ls no he
post ther tt of a flela mer hel in servine the
Fmperor"
 1o leve rlread had en undor
standing it oc t t  vouls t th next Premio
for Ham 1f o
Lns ct t troops In Ryush
es so s   n y  SUGIY
In thisy,teie   it ivAm
resignation
b increamingly
dey b y or ro nd s  depir bec
more wideepro. the s ao  en crrte pesistence
pleni
of : 11 the people wes
bein a
rreplete with
secret fauar nl lrtricure
trinee YONOE was
most axor t 
son os osslble. To
the qoerrier ct
li , "I believe that
we hevelt 
1w. ver  vith eerioa:
I do net t r tt t b ore suse sid will bo
abolished or  etiour poli  ed even if we
surreadee wrecditi oull .ev bud thet we carrender
to emerice dopenee
I sor it be resuoed to
half, but if she notion ca be seven fro suffering
ond e   v, s  ur y is eble
to saint in our not orel pol s end the dipoity or the
Throne, then .
 rre  ureecaltional sur
render."
The Emperer euvered,  e of the seme opinion.
Prinee Koso vo 1. " c a, firet of ell, the
inflamed u urou it ler contrel For this
purpoce    b  jecty de necessary.
The Eaperer saker r at ir  tht I pust de." "The
army cennot be contrel es by civil cfficiele. The only
wey is to sppoint a couptunt pursor from amon the
army office s "
"Who would treie le?"
"I believe tr t UGA I, Vuzuneri, aud MAZAKI,
Jinzuburo are the nly ones."
The aperor we: uneble to respond to this deciaive
opinion or rince Yo OE There were other questions by
the Tmperor, but the writen has foreotten them becauso
it took place some tinc ao and because re is forgetful
by nature. Fowever, the my ror did express great
amazedent

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.91)
-10-
amazement concernin e world-wide activitiee of
communistic forces of rich re ves totelly unewer
Afterwerds, Prinie YourE ssid: "As a subjeot
I told rim everythin: I coul?
The rest is up to hi
Najesty."
To the euthor's puscilor of the possibility of
e further swmeons, t peplied, "I son't know. It
depends on what vic thi ut te was not sun-
moned agcin until n or t'e o a of the wer.
The writer et into u a in corneotion with
thir memorial of t! 1'  o 'he etrenge
pert was thothen.eour
theilltary
police on 15 Mey, the i' i er.  of the investi-
getion elre: dy lc t  rf o co of the entire text
of the . omorial desrits i   tiru sside from
Koxo, ite contents t fro everyone
but the huperor and t e on .ap of the Privy Seal,
YIDO.
The first questi  , "Do you know
that Prince Toroas  sri te the Throne?"
"I heard thut bo  unt te ti I perial Pelace in
response to the su.  f.   ejty "
"het was the otut
eriolf"
Then I replied. " do rt o," hs coneback
wes "Don't lic"
At this ti e, the r ieo that his conneo
tion with the cose con aerned ir t of vli, vono's
report. I wes infor i? after
1 reiear thnt cfter
I hed left my hore,
y nool srd coner of n Louse
wes searched.
They probebl xr-ete e find a copy or dreft
of the memoriel in t!e house inother question is,
how end when did tre  wroriol fall into the hands of
the militer" police Later I reard from YoNoE that
when the incident involvin the writer and others
occurred re immediut ly tastened to Iro end esked,
"For what reasons ere others being reld hen it was
my memorial? In the first plece no one other than
Mis Majesty.and you wio vas present et the time should
heve any knowledge of its contents "hy wcs it that it
got into the hands of cthers, especially the military
police?"
He continued, "If reperts by cenior statesmen to
the Emperor in reply to his guestione ere subject to
army censorship, they, es senior stetesmen, will not
be eblé to

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.91)
- 11-
be eble to subnit eny reports relative to the current
situation. It also meens that even the Emperor cannot
inadvortently express views which ere opposed to the
will of the army. uet a matter celnnot be overlooked."
In reply, Yerguis Fim ade a flat denial, saying,
"I did not divul the contents of "our mecoriel to
the Throne " Leter e seia tret,"Investigetions conducted
by the aray shows that vhen the I enzion of YosHIDA,
Chigeru, present Seeretery Conerr of the Liberal Party,
was searched, e cop as f: und in 'is desk."
The writer believes thes Yiro was lying in his
explenetion thet in vor fou i "rostida's desk"
for voeutp wes brea r- i  tlitery police
long after the writer
f the full text vas
already in the hands of the :litary police when the
writer was first crocs- s ir . lor before YocEIDA
wes celled into the ure It tared that Trinee FoNoE
herbored suspicion on tic cv lopaent e lons time,
for leter he reniniesei, " thau ht it ves strenge
for there wes no on ust me e could heve let
it leak out "
It is e feet that e srer e, sove reletionship,
whether direet or  a of e ti porhy, xisted be-
tween MIDo and r , and it o cl'o Te proved through
a number of frots t uer to I it later that the
cese in which tie weiter e, stiers were irvolved
resulted from en orier fre p ve cathar ti en ore which
Legan ith the lover iliter pclter eetelons.
The plen of the  y  oo owt wovee from his
influential positic: ir tre politiecl vorld
The
silitary police fr e ti  conod, oc is a
Dadoglio: we will diprro of hip"
Prince Yoros sov sd to le eoere e bis personal
denger It is cuil tiat vron he told Fino, dI will
personelly negoti to vitr t' ery", vIdo answered,
"It is undesirable thct you cirectl epproach the army.
It will only i cite trem I desire that you leave the
matter in ay hends fer a while "
The vriter usked tie presigin Jud e durine the
final court-martial on 25 June, "Tor wh:. reason have
we been subject to this ordeal I veuld like to ask
for future reference "
The presiding judre at thet time was Lt. Gen. SHIMADA,
chief of the Judicial ffeir: Board of the astern
Army, who assumed responsibility for a certain incident
end committed suicide imredictel: after the wer ended.
The reply was, "Becauce you hink the army is being
influenced by communism."
"What is the basis for that statement?"
"It is written

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.93)
-12 -
"It is written in Prince VOlOE's memorlal
to the Throne"
"I do not know what is written in YoNoE's
menoriel, but there is no reasor for us being subjot
to trie cxperience beceuse of it."
"The question in, who iafcrmed Prinee YONOE.
The opinion cannot be corsidered es his own."
"Thet is most illogicel o ehe ie more familles
with. the present lonestic a forcign cituetion than
Prince Yoic, for he : as oried to form a cabinet
three times in the erlod bet een the chine Inciden't
and the present wer Turticuieri in the cese, it
is impossible to believe that le is e men vho must
be informed ty a third perio.. in order to reply to
wis Vajesty's questions.  orev , wrat a senior
stetesman reports to thc Emp  is no conoern of the
general publio Yet we cre s t' c: to tlis ordeal
by your Honor on this scest  I n nnable to under-
stend wh ere the secret let out "
At that moment er officlel of judiciel affairs
intervened, snd seid, "s ula e stop ct this point
sinee the case tas cli euer l en settled? ifter all,
his Yonor, t e Chief of tie Tud: iel ffeirs Board.
tosk grect peins in decidin thi cece."
Another officiel in the stue eotion then told
me efterwerds trat even efter ve hod been released,
the I ilitary police con: inued to ur: e It Gen. SHIMADA
to punish uis.
The stubborn attitude of she or y during that
period still leaves en unplear nt memory Vany other
iecollections with re ard to t e  itustion which
prompted the lete Prince vcNc: to submit suen a report,
his reat anxiety orl vonitD.. efforts for peace still
came to mind Telirg edventa e of this opportunity to
make public Prince Yc Ci'e e oriel to the Throne, a
very smell aspect which concerns the writer has been
presented I believe there will be enother opportunity
to stete it in detail at another tine..

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.98)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
SECRE
TO
G - Mr. Rusk
DATE: Sept. 21, 1949
FROM : G - Mr. Bishop
SUBJECT:
The Communist problem in Japan is not a political
problem. The Japanese, like all Asiatics and contrary
to Europeans and Americans who have experienoed individ-
ual liberty, do not have individual ability or in most
instances even a desire to resist a conspiracy such as
communiam. The Communists in Japan do not form what we
commonly call a political party. They are a compact,
highly disciplined, trained and determined conspiratorial
group designed solely for the purpose of seizing power.
I am convinced that before we dare leave Japan we must
see to it that this conspiracy is destroyed and outlawed.
I believe that the Japanese cannot control the communist
conspiracy if these steps are not taken. I do not be-
lieve that the Japanese are capable on their own of
taking these steps after a peace treaty and the with-
drawal of our forces.
I would not envisage any restriction of Japanese
thought or on the books that they may read or the radios
to which they may listen; but I would envieage outlawing
the Communist conspiracy and prohibiting its reorganiza-
tion.
Although this is an extremely important step and
one which probably should be discussed with the Common-
wealth powers and their support obtained if possible,
19-2149
I do not believe that we need their prior agreement to
carry out the necessary steps.
WWB
G:MWB:hmh
SECRET

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.97)
OF THE
UNITED STATES.OF AMERICA
G DIVISION OF
No. 832
Imited States Political Àdviser
VORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIHS
for Japan
EORET
JAN-11950
Tokyo, November 29, 1949.
894.00B/11-2949
PARTMEN
13
REC'D.
Subject: Communist Pamphlet on Feasibility of Communism
DEC 8
under the Occupation.
ACTION:
FE-enc
The Honorable
INFO:
The Secretary of State,
DCR
Washington.
L
OLI
Sir:
EURX
s/s
I have the honor to transmit to the Department a
single copy, in English translation, of a pamphlet
j
entitled "Is the Establishment of Communism Feasible
7050
under the Occupation", published by the Tokushima
Prefectural Committee of the Japan Communist Party on
March 10, 1949, as the first of a Communist Party series
ik
on "educational propaganda". The pamphlet was obtained
by the Military Intelligence Section of General Headquarters,
which has made the English translation available to this
Mission.
894.00B/11-2949
While the pamphlet is of general interest as an
exposition of Communist policy, the Department's attention
is especially invited to Section III (pages 6-8 of the
enclosed translation) which desls with the question
"How Will the Communist Party Manage Relations with
Foreign Countries."
Under the heading "What is the Communist Party
Doing to Expedite the Peace Treaty?" the pamphlet
contends that although the peace conference has been
delayed because of world trends, none of the Japanese
cabinets since the Occupation has exerted any efforts
to bring about a peace settlement. All political
parties, except the Japan Communist Party, have either
schemed to secure a separate peace or have endeavored
to prolong the Occupation through the "colonization" of
Japan. In August 1948, the pamphlet argues, the
Communist Party took positive steps to speed up a
peace settlement on the basis of the thorough democratiza-
tion of Japan in eccordance with the Potsdam Declaration,
and in spite of opposition from the reactionaries, the
Communist Party is working for the earliest possible
peace settlement.
With
SECRET
(Distribution was delayed due to improper preparation of
Original Masters. DC/R 12-26-49 ik)
DECLASSIFIED
E.0. 11652, Sec. 3(E) and 5(D) or (E)
19
53
Authority NAD760081
By. CD/SR NARS, Date....9 QCT 1975
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF AOTION TAKEN.

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.99)
November 29, 1949.
SECRET
-2-
With respect to foreign relations, the pamphlet
declares that "Japan should take care not to be partial
to one country" or forget its independence by relying
on the strength of others. The Communist Party favors,
therefore, conducting a peace conference with all the
Allied Powers "on an equal basis" and is strongly opposed
to any separate peace arrangements.
At a meeting of the Central Committee on August 26,
1948, the Communist Party formulated and announced nine
basic terms for a peace settlement which, according
to the pamphlet, are "just and in conformity with the
spirit of the Potsdam Declaration." In order to
expedite this program, however, the party "must conduct
a nationwide people's movement."
740.0011 E.W.(Peace)/9-1448
The nine-point peace treaty program outlined in the
enclosed pamphlet was previously transnitted to the
Department (this Mission's despatch no. 60t of September 14,
1948). Point 3 of the communist peace formula, "the
return to Japan of islands which belonged to her originally,
based on ethnic and historical associations", is of
considerable interest. According to the Military Intelligence
Section, the territorial provision of the communist peace
Section, the territorial provision of the communists peace
plan was apparently soft-pedaled after its first announce-
pont in August 1948, and its appearance in the enclosed
communist pamphlet of March 10, 1949, apparently shows
an intention to renew this propaganda theme.
When the Communist Party's peace terms were first
announced in August 1948 this Mission was of the opinion
that the territorial provisions most likely referred to
Japan's recovery of the Ryukyu and possibly the Bonin
Islands. The language of point 3 is sufficiently general,
however, to permit the territorial provision to apply
to almost any of Japan's outlying islands. While it
may be only conjeotural to suggest that the Communists
might also include the Kuril Islands within the scope
of this provision, more recent trends in communist
propaganda leave little doubt that the party is fully
cognizant of the strong Japanese desire to recover at
least some fishing rights in the Kuril Islands if not
a part of the island chain itself (this Mission's A-298
of November 8, 1949).
894.626/11-849
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
Enclosure: Att.
Pamphlet entitled "Is the Establishment of
Communiam Feasible Under the Occupation",
published by the Tokushima Prefectural
Committee of the Japan Communist Party,
March 10, 1949. (single copy)
350.21
CNSpinka:mhp
(Retyped 12-26-49 DCR 1k)

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.96)
SECHET
no. 832, November 29
1949 fr0m the United
States Political Adviser
for Janan, Tokyo, on the
THANSLATION
subject "Communist Pamph
on Feasibility of Communi
TOC NO 51432
Unier the Occupation".
I TH FT PLIH NT  CON UNIN FESIRLE UN LH THL OCCUP.TION? (Pl rl
of parphlet)
(Cover)
JCP Lducational Propegania Pamphlet eries No. 1
- Is It Possitle to stablish & CP egime Under the Occupation? -
Supplement: " het Will the CP Do: ith eligion and the Family syatem?
Published by the Tokushima Ken Conmittee of the JCP.
- T. le of Contents -
"I. It Possible to stal lish a CP Fegime under the Cccupation"
I. het are the lations Between the O cupation Forces and the CP? - Pa e 8
a. Can the CP cquire Political Power Even Under the Occupation?
b. ill the Occupation Forces uppress the CP
II. How 1ll the CP cquire Political Power? - Page 32
a. Doos the CP Possess ecret Plans for a Rovolution Based on Violence?
b. hy Do You ay that the Theory of a Revolution Based on Violence is Absurd?
c.
That Do You Meen by Peaceful Neans of Conductirg a Revolution?
á.
What is the Difference Betveen Comaunisn und Parliamentary Government?
e.
Is the CP Demar.ding an Indeperdent Ca inet?
f. Is the Materialization of a Govt B sed on a  enocratic Peoples Pront Diffioalt?
III.How ill the C? Manage Helations  ith Foreign Countries - Page 88
a. hat Is the CP Doin to Ixpedite the oace Treaty?
b. hat Sort of Terms Does the CP Scek in the Peace Treaty?
Supplement: hat Will the CP o ith eligion and the Family System?
I. Will the CF Recognize eligious reedom? - Pae 1ll
I1. hy ere the Churches Testroyed in the Russian levolution? - Page 117
IlI. hat do the Communists Think of eligion? - Pae 119
"Is It Possible to Establish . CP Regime Under the Occupation?"
I. hat Are the Helstions Hetween the Occupation Forces and the CP?
A. Can the CP Acquire Political Power ven Under the Occupation? Guestion -
the CP policies are undoubtedly for the tenefit of the people. And, the fact that
the CP until now has told no lie: and strongly adhered to its prineiples in waging
the struggle has been recognizcd by the masses. However, since Japan is being
occupied by the Allied Forces, I doubt that the CP can acquire political pomer, no
matter how respectable the party's policies may be. hat do you think about this
point? knswer - Frankly speaking, Ceneral of the rmy Douglas Machrthur may not
maintain a favore le opinion of comuunism. This, however, is General Macirthur's
personal opinion. General Mac rthur's opinion, oreover, is not adopted as dogma
to become the basis for Allied Army policy. Neither is it the fuiding factor.
The suprene order which Japan must now abide by is the Potsdan Declaration. In
the PD, freedom of political movements, freedom of thought and the establishment of
basic human rights are clearly advocated. Morevoer, it clearly states, "The occupation
armi s of the Allied Nations shall withdraw immediately from Japan as soon as a
responsille and peacoful govt is established according to the free will of the Jpse
sople". I think the Jpse people should not fail to rumerber this.
(usstion - As a matter of fact, however, since the Occupation Forces do not
favor the apread of CP influence, is it not impossihle for the CP to acquire absolute
political power as long as the Occupation Porces are in Japan?
Answer - We must not forget who released the foremost leadere of the CP, much
as TOr.U. Kyuichi and SHIC. Yoshio, from prison. Japan was supposed to have become
a democratic nation on 15 Aug 45, the day the war ended. However, the Jpse Covt
made no attempts whatscever to release political prisoners from prison. In fact,
Linister of Home Affaire YakiZakI, at that time, clearly stated to the press that
the country had no intentione of releasing its political prisonere. It was the
Occupation Forees suthorities themsslves who released the above-mentioned persens
from prison, abolished the Jpse wartime Public Security Maintenance Lam, and granted
freedom of political activity to the Jpse people. Therefore, the above-mentioned
persons did not obtain their freedom until 10 Oct 145, almost two months after the
termination of the war.

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.98)
SEVHLI
TRANSLATION
Doc No 51482
Vhat do the above-mentioned actions of the Occupation Forces signify? Has
there been any change in General MacArthur's way of thinking? If so, why did ho
release the communists from prison? Arent the above-mentioned facts proe that
even men of power are forced to abide by the fundamental principles of demoeraey,
such as, freedom of thought and freedom of political activity, and also proef
that General . himself is abiding by those fundamental prineiples? I think we
must have more confidence in democracy.
b. Will the Occupation Forces Suppress the CP?
Guestion - The formal pretense may be as you say. Wont there be various
sorts of oppression exerted, however, if comrunism is an ideology disliked by the
Occupation Forces? Therefore, isnt it better for the Communists to conduct their
activities in a manner that will be pleasing to the Occupation Forces and give
them  favora! le opinion of the Communists?
Anewer - If the Communists did that its activities would not be representative
of the freely expressed will of the Jpse people. The Potsdam Declaration does not
make such demands. So far, the Jpse cabinets have been conducting the administra
tion of Japan solely to please the Occupation Forces without concern for the type
of govt necessary for the welfare of the Jpse people. The name, "Pom Pom Regimes"
has been given to the Jpse cabinets by foreign newspaper correspondents. In
thinking the matter over, I feel thst such ideas were also born due to imperialistie
govt. I feel that the Jpse people have lost all courage to assert themselves
because over a long period they were accustomed to conditions wherein they were
totally forbidden to assert their own will. This transformation took place under
an Imperialist s stem, that is, despotic govt possessing absolute authority, or,
in more comprehensible terms, under an Emperor who is sacred and involable. This
condition, however, is the exact opposite of demaoracy.
Question - If you say so, I feel that is the truth. However, I feel coneerned
over the future of the CP. Frankly speaking, I feel that if there were no ap-
prehensions of this nature, membership in the CP would increase and many people
would support the Party although they dont join it. There are many people whe
recognize the righteousness of the CP but who hesitate to join it because of this
apprehension.
Answer - What you say might be true. However, in view of world trends I feel
that more confidence can be held in the CP. I fcel that disgraceful cowards are
the only people who cannot hold confidence in the CP. As hereintofore stated,
immovable iron-bound rules which must be observed - that is, the so-called democratie
freedoms - have been solemnly established in the present world. No matter how
powerful he may be, there is no man in any country of the world who can violate these
iron-bound rules - even General MacArthur. In other words, the foregoing constitutes
a new chapter in the world history of 1949. Any person who attempts to obstruet
and to check this historical progress will he labeled an enemy of the whole world.
Actually, everyone knows this. This is the very reuson why people must recognize
and respect the freedom of ideological movements even if they do not like the
movements themselves. The times have been changing, and, presently, they are changing
at a swift pace.
Cuestion - I feel that the times have undoubtedly changed. In reading the
newspaper we find that the civil war in China has reached a decisive stage. Will
that have any effect on Japan?
Answer - Yes, Japan will be greatly affected. China is an influential member
among the Allied Nations. Especially since China is so close to Japan, if and
when China changed from a capitalistic country to a peoples democratic country and
begins to speak to the Allied Council for Japan and the Far Eastern Commission from
a peoples democratic standpoint, Japan will be greatly affected. Moreover, the
foregoing change has already become decisive; and the completion of it is only a
matter of time. Communim is moving throughout the world on a scale unprecedented
in history, as follows: In Burope there are the great Communist struggles of France
and Italy; in Asia there are the Communist racial emancipation movements of the
southern Asiatic countries and the fierce Communist struggle in Kerea; and in
Eastern Europe ahere are seven countries in which the Communist revolutien has
already succeedod. Even the Allied Nations or the Occupation Forces cannot formmlate
policies without considering such world trends as the foregoing.
-2-

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.98)
SCE
Doc No 51482
In adwancing my views one step further, I feel that, in view of the feregeing
we, the Cons unists of Japan, must strongly assert ourselves so that we will mot
fal! begind world trends. The greater the power of the CP, the greater the
freedon we will enjoy.  e cannot gain freedom if we merely please the autherities
out of a sense of fear.
II. How Will the CP Acquire Political Power?
a. Does the CP ossess a Secret Plan for a Revolution Based on Violonee?
(uestion - Do you mean that the CP thinks it will not be suppressed by the
llied Forces as long as the freedon of political activity recognized by the
Potsdam eclaration exists?
Answer - Yes. I ven if one person a ong the Allied Forces dislikes the CP,
his dislike doesnot become the decisive factor. Therefore, I mean that even if
an individual of the Allied Forces expresses his opinions against the CP, his
opinions would not constitute suppression by the Ailied Forces, nor should his
opinions be construed as such.
(uestion - Vhen conducting an actual movement how will the CP acquire politieal
power? Are the following words spoken by the Jpse popple true? "The CP is still
pàùnning a revolution based on violence. The CP propagandizes that it will
execute & revolution through peaceful menas, merely because it would be harmful
to their purpose if the actu : plans are revealed".
Answer- It seems there are quite a few rumors circulating to that effect.
However, these are the most absurd rimors that ever existed. The reason for this
propaganda is that the CP is a party of the masses. At present, anyone can join
the CP, and, desiring to recruit as great a number of new members as possible,
the CP is doing its utmost to encourage people to join the Party. I would lik
to ask how a Party of the masses suah as the CP could encourare anyone to join
the Party if it possessed such a secret plan as the one you mentioned. Furthermore,
if the CP possessed such a plen, it should allow only a lirited number of persons
to join the Party. There are absolutely no secrets or conspiracies in the CP.
Indeed, it is because these things do not exist that the CP is able to boldly
open its doors to the masses. However, above all, to suggest a revolution based
on violence in present-day Japan would be an irresponsible utterance which could
dome only from the mouth of  totally capricious theorist. There are no such
persons among Jpse Comrunists.
b. Why Do You Say That a Theory Besed on Violence is Alsurd?
Guestion - Is a revolution based on violence as absurd as you say it is?
Answer - I think you can see that a revolution based on violence is absurd
if you consider thet at present there are approximately 150,C00 CP members in the
whole of Japan. If all these Party members rose in arms, attacked the governing
class and captured the riens of govt, they might succeed temproarily. However,
will such a Gommunist regime last very long? Fven if the Party seizes the reins
of govt through the foregoing mens, vhen the greater majority of the Jpse people
do not s pport the CP, the Communist regime will not last long. In other words,
it is evident that such a revolution will be short-lived. We, of the CP, intend
to persist in success. Therefore, the CP shall never adopt such mears whorein
the Comunist regime would be forced to end in failure. Morevoer, the CP will not
lie to the masses in order to win political power, because its objectives for as-
quiring political power are based on intentions to bless the masses and not on the
mbitions of an individual.
Cuestion - If vhat you say is true, must the CP have the support of the
majority of the people before it can execute a revolution?
Answer - Yes. Even if we of the CP rose in armed revolt, without the suppert
of the greater majority of the people the Party weuld be unable to establish
pefmanent political power. Even in the case of the Russian Revolution, the armed
uprising was strongly supported by the mejority of the people and the people them
selves took arms and follewed the leadership of the CP. That was the very reasem
why the revolation succeeded. By no means did the Russian CP rise in regels by
itself in defiance of the will of the people. The mswer to the questien of
whether the greater majority of the Jpse people will support us, if we, of the CP,
-3

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.98)
Ste
DOC NO 51482
rise in armed revolt is evident. There is no tactic so reckless as the feregeing
and it is one that would be mentioned only by the "Fifth Column" of an enemy
party which is attempting to force the revolution into failure.
c. Vihat Do You Mean by Peaceful Means of Conducting a Revolation?
Question - How Will the CP seize political power and execute the revolution?
Answer - Today, the JCP has been granted freedom. Although there are diffioultier
and obstacles placed across our path, we of the CP possess the freedom of propaganda
end the freedom of participating in elections. This is an unprecedented major
change in the history of Janan and an entirely new condition. As long as these
freedoms axist and as lon as we of the CP exert our efforts we will be able to
win the support of the massos of the people. The number of seats occuped by the
CP in the Jpse Diet shall ecual the number of CP candidates who are elected by the
najority of the votes cast in en election. As times have changed since the tor
mination of the war, no one can suppress the election of Communists by force.
Loreover, we of the CP now possess conditions which did not exist before the termine
tion of the war. Through those conditiors, as long as we posses the majority of the
seats in the Diet, we will be able to acquire political power without resorting to
force. Under these conditions there is absolutely no need for force. Moreover,
political power established tirough such means vill mean a very strong regime
and not one that will end in failure. Such a regime will be supported by the greater
majority of the Jpse people because it will be established by them. Therefore,
probably at no time will such a Comaunist re ime beoome unstable so long as the
C? faithfully executes the volicies which it prorised publicly, and so long as it
does not become corrupt and fail to fulfill its commitments like th other long-
established political parties.
d. What is the Difference between Communism and Parliamentary Govt?
Guestion - From whet you say, I gather there is no difference whatsoever between
conmuniam and the so-called parliamentary govt. I hear that the CP does not follow
the principles of parliamentary fovt. What is the difference between communiam
and parliamentary govt?
Answer - That is a good question. As I just stated, the CP will no dcubt take
& course whereby it will occupy the mejority of the seats in the Diet and acquire
political power through this majority stren-th. However, differing from other
political parties, the CP does not think it is able to solve all problems within
the Diet itself. For example, even now, the members of the Diet are elected by
the people. However, despite this fact, the meabers of the Diet do not conduct
govt according to the wishes of thepeople. The ordinary circumstances are that
they forget their campaign commitments as socn as they are elected to office and
they do things on their own accord without referrin: to their constitueney. What
is the cause of all this? This, consequently, is due to the fact that the present
Diet is far removed from the peoples livelihood. Election time is the onhy time
during which the people participate in govt, that is to say, only once in so many
years. Therefore, when a decision is made in the Diet on something contrary to
the wishes of the people (such s, bud et bills proposing heavy taxes; hiking of
railway transportation rates and a "sub-subsistence" salary base) the people are
powerless to act against the Diet. It is then that the neople start mass struggle
outside the Diet. The struggle for increase in wages by the Natl Counci! of Govt
Workers Union and the movement in the respective districts to oppose heavy taxes
are both examples of such struggles. Conseguently, the fact that such mass move-
ments do occur outside the Diet is proof that the present Diet does not, and,
furthermore, is unable to properly represent the wishes of the people. Despite
these facts, the method of parliamentary govt is to conduct govt solely through
such a Diet and to refer no matters to persons outside the Diet. The foregoing
points are opposed by the CP, the Party does not oppose parliamentary govt as a
whole. The CP feels that the demands of the people must be properly woven into
the govt. Therefore, the people should conduct mass movements by publieksing their
respective demands within and without the Diet. Woreover, political movements
within the Diet should be propelled by the pressure of such mass movements. Unless
the foregoing takes place there will be no govt based on the will of the people.
The foregeing are the points which the CP advocate and the points of commnism
which differ from parliementery govt. The increases in the power of judgment of
4

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.99)
Doc No 51482
the masses concerning politics today and their knowledge of polities shall
equal the increase in mass movements. And, if this happens, anti-demoeratie
Diet members will not be re-elected. The foregoing prineiple was manifested
in the last U.. presidential election with the unexpected defeet, due to
opposition by the laborers, of Dewey and the Hepublican Party which insisted
on the enactment of the Taft-Hartley Law. If communism is exercised one step
further, demands for the dissolution of the Diet and cpinions of non-confidenee
in the Diet can be expressed through the mass movements. It is thought that
unlese communism develops to this stage, the gort of Japan cannot be called a
govt based on the vill of the people. In view of the foregoing, dont you think
there is a distinct difference hetween communiem and the prineiple of sole
dependence on parliamentary govt as advocated by the long-established Socialist
Party and other political parties? The CP's views on the Diet are that polities
conducted in the Diet should be based on active mass movements.
e. Is the CP Demanding an Inde endent Cabinet?
Cuestion - According to vhat you say the CP will acquire political power
if the Party wins the majority of seats in the Diet. Are the objectives of
the CP's revolutionary tactics to win the majority of the seats in the Diet?
Answer - You are somewhat wrong. It is not necessary for the CP to become
the leading party or the party occupying the majority of seats in the Diet in
order to acquire political power. The CP is not attempting to form a so-called
indeperdent cabinet or a govt composed solely of the CP. The CP's objeetive is
a coalition govt based on a democratic peeples front. Ever since the rebirth
of the JCP, it has been advocating the organization of the democratie peoples
front. This front is the basis for the new govt. In other words, the CP
proposes to establish a govt by combining the democratic forces of political
parties, labor unions, farmers co-operatives, co-operative unions, and cultural
organizations which join the democratic peoples front. If the foregoing is
realized, it will not be absolutely necessary for the CP to win the majority
of the seats in the iet in order to win political power. For example, this
can be readily understood by looking back at the deliberations on the budget
bill in the second session of the Diet. There were only 4 Diet membere from
the CP, but they waged a great struegle in the Diet as they could not allow the
tast budget of heavy taxes to be passed, which would destroy the livelihood of
the people. In concert with this great struggle, labor organizations condueted
fierce oppostion movements against the budget outside the Diet. Great pressure
was exerted on the Diet through the Farmer-Labor Organizations Liaison Council
which was formed for the sake of maintaining contact between the Diet mombers
and the outsiders. As a result, because the orthodox faction of the Socialist
Party felt that it could not ignore the demands of the poeple, in a case like
this, they lined themselves up with the CP and c st a green ballot signifying
opposition contrary to the platform of the SP. The diligent individuals among
the inde endents also lined themselves up with the Communists on this issue.
This victory truly demonstrates the strength of a united front. It would be
well to conduct such movements more intensively and systematically. The fore-
going movement was merely conducted in opposition to the budget bill, but if
it were carried one step further, it could be conducted to demand a transfer
of the reins of govt to the CP. When the pressure of the laborers and the
farmers is increased end the movements intensified, many Diet members will be
influenced to line themselves up with the CP. And, it will not be necessary for
the CP to occupy the majority of the seats in the Diet in order to acquire
political power and control the govt as it pleases.
Question - In other words you mean that if the CP gains plitical power the
govt will be based on & democratic peoples front? Do you also mean a govt
based on a joint front in which the CP joins hands with labor unions, farmers
co-operatives and civil groups?
Answer - Tes. There are people who worry that the CP might do everything
despotically and of its own accord if it shoul gain politieal power. Actually,
however, they feel this way because they do not know what you just said. If
they knew as much as you do, they would wasily understand that it is Impossible
for the Comanists to do things despotically. If the CP gains political power
-5

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.98)
Doc No 51482
everything the govt does shall be done in accordance with the joint objeetives
the joint front and in accordance with the unity of the will of the people. Te
CP itself cannot violate the decisions of the joint front. Therefore, I feel
there is no need or anyone to have any fear of Communist administration. It 
alright for anyone to unreservedly express his own opinion and the CP shall express
its own opiniors. By doing so, everyone will come to an agreement and work together
in harmony.
f. Is the katerialization of a Covt Based on a Pemocratic Peoples Front Diffieals
Cuestion - What you have just explained to me is the democratic peeples frent.
I think it is : ood ide., ut since it docs nct readily materialize, I suppose it
is difficult to realire.
Answer - No. The foundation for the peoples democratic front is in the prooess
of being consolidated. Thut foundation is the League for the Protection of Demoeraey.
In other words, this Learue is what we mean by a democratic peoples front. At
first, the CP sterted working on the Labor armer Oeganizations Liaison Couneil for
the sake of uniting movements within and vithout the Diet. At present, commeral
and industrial people, and also women, youths, scholars, and people of culture,
besides all kinds of democratic forces, are participating in the democratio peoples
front. They are opposing the present undemocratic govt and are strongly publieising
thr peoples demand for a new govt. Organizations are participating, such as:
Govt Hailvay Vorkers Union; All Communication Norkers Union; Japan Electrie Power
Industry Workers Union; Natl Feder tion of Metal Industry Workers Union; Natl Couneil
of Govt Workers Union; All Japan Chemical Industry Workers Union; All Japan Congress
of Industrial Labor Unions; ongress of Japan Labor Unions; Congress of Japan
Farmers Union; All Japan Federation of Co-Operative Unions; Repatriates League;
Vomens Democratic Council; Students Lea ue; and the Youth Council. The wellkmown
Mr. OYaA, Ikuo is a member of the democratic peoples front, and other scholars,
people of culture, and progressive intellectuals are joinine the democratie peoples
front one after another. The front is almost a feneral mobilisation of the demoeratio
camps of Japan. Before lons, a powerful system, such as mentioned abeve, will be
established in Japan. In consideration of these facts I think it will not be very
long before a govt based on a democratic peoples front is established. When this
system becomes a little stronger and when the movement of the people who joined the
system become a little more intensified, we shall be supported by their strength.
Thus, we will be able to overthrow the reactionary govt and win the majority of the
seats in the Diet. This will bc possible with just a little more effort.
suestion - Well, I dont agree with you. I think the question lies in the
strengthening of the democratic peoples front and in judging the course to be takon
by the Socialist Party.
Answer - When the democratic peoples front becomes stronger, the SP will
probably collaborate with the CP. Nothing can be donc with the thoroughly corrupt
right-wing factions. However, in accordance vith the increase in the strength of
public opinion, the influence of the right wing faction of the Socialist Party shall
decrease and the influence of the left wing members of the CP shall steadily inerease.
And, eventuelly, there is no doubt that the corrupt CP leaders will be ousted and
a reform conducted within the &P. In short, we of the CP firmly believe that the
pressure of mass struggles serves as the deciding factor in all things and that the
fate of a revolution is also decided by same pressure. Moreover, with these thinge
in mind we are waging a struggle by co-ordinatin the movements within and without
the Diet.
III. How Will the CP Manage Relations with Foreign Countries?
a. What is the CP Doing to Expedite the Peace Treaty?
Question - As the pe ace conference is yet to be convened despite the fast
that we are now in the fifth year since the termination of the war, all of the Jpse
people are hoping for an early date to be set for the peace conference. What is
the CP doing to expedite the Peace Treaty?
Answer - the peace conference has not been convened as yet probably because
of world trends. However, the main reason for the delay is that none of the Jpse
cabinets from that of Prince Higashikuni right after the termination of the wer to
that of Premier Yoshida, otday, have exerted any efforts whatsoever coneerning a
-6

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.98)
S
Doc No 51482
peace conference. The Ashida Cabinet once agreed to a separate peace in order to
bring about an early peace conference. However, the actual objeetive of the Aahide
Cabinet was to establish & natl unity front and its intention was to use the pease
conference as & pretext to oppress the lahor offensive. Therefore, when the Ashida
Cabinet failed to reulize the foregoing objective and intention, it immediately
withdrew its efforts for a peace treaty. At the time of the first Yoshida Cabinet
the Democpatic Party advocated a separate peace, but shelved the peace issue when
the hopes for an early peace treaty decreased. Diring the second Yoshida Cabinet,
in conjunction with the introduction of foreign capital, the Democrats have gone
far as to hope for a play to colonize Japan and a prolonged occupation. The SP
talks about bringing about an eurly peace treaty, but makes no definite statements
concerring a peace treaty with all t e Allied Nations. The Katayama and Ashida
Cabinets violated the Potsdam  ecleration and lost the confidence of the Allied ati
They, furthermore, ar: the actual persons responsible for the sabotaging of the pease
treaty. The eoples Co-Operative and D mocratic Parties are just about the same
as the fo: egoing parties. In aug 49 the CP decided to speed up the date of the peace
treaty. t the Anti-Fascist Peoples Rally opened on 15 Aug 49, the acceleration of
the peace treaty was discussed and today the masses are participating in the nation
wide movement to accelerate the opening of the peace conference. Acceleration of the
date of the peace conference is now the demand of all the people of Japan. The
foremost means of bringing atout an early confcrence is to thoroughly democratise
Japan in pursuance of the Potsdam Declaration. The established opinion of the
world is that the democratization of Japan is in consistent at present. It seems that
China and Australia feel uneasy over the fact that militaristic and reactionary
influences have not been removed from Japan. This uneasiness is not unreasonable
as the following examplss show that democratization in Japan has not been thorough
and that the roots of aggression still remain: The violation of the Constitution of
Japan, the promulgation of govt ordinances by the shida Cabinet which violated the
Potsdam Declaration, the resumntion of activity by purged war criminals, the in-
consistent liquidation of the Zaibatsu, the corruption of political cireles, the
low wages of the working classes, the lor priced exports accompanying low wages,
and the inconsistent reform of farmland. In connection with foreign policy,Japan
should take care not to be partial to one country nd discriminative towards another
country. Moreover, she should take care not to forget her independence and not to
rely solely on the strength of others. Such attitudes would causc the loss of
independence by Japan and, also, serve as an obstacle to the setting of an early
date for the peace conference.  e of the C feel that the Jpse Govt should conduet
the peace conference with all Allied Nations on an equal basis, that she should op-
pose  separate peace and that she should conduct a peace conference for the sake
of the independence, freedom and peace of Japan. At the entral Committee Meeting
held on 26 Aug 48, the CP decided upon and announced to the general public nine
terms concerning the peace treaty. These terms are just and in conformity with
the spirit of the Potsdam eclaration. A peace treaty based on such terms is truly
the type sought by all the eople of Japan who hope for independenc, freedom and
peace. However, the CP feels that in order to realise such a peace treaty, Japan
must conduct a nationwi e peoples movement.
b. What Sort of Terms Does the CP Seek in the Peace Treaty?
Cuestion - that is the CP thinking of when it spesks of peace terms for the sake
of the independence, freedom and peace of Japan?
Answer - The CP is thinking of:
1. Democracy - The extermination of imperialism and Fascist influences,
thorough spread of democracy and stabilizction of the peoples livelihood.
2. Independence - Complete recovery of sovereignty (Japan shall not be
obligated to any country which would violate its sovertign right.
3. Territory - The return to Japan of islands which belonged to her
orginally, based on cthnic and historical condiderations.
4. Tithdrawal of the Occupation Troops and Opposition to Making Japan a
Military Bsse - Complete withdrawal of troops from Japan and opposition to making
Jupan a military base.
-7

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.98)
5
Doc No 51482
5. Renunciation of War and the Right to Self-Defense - Remumdatfem of
war, opposition to any terms which would involve Japan in international dispates,
and, at the same time, recognition of Japan's right to self-defense.
6. conomy - Guarantee the independence of Jpse economy and improvement
in the livelihood of the people and the establishment of fair economic relations
with various countries of the world.
7. Reparations - Reparations vhich would not exceed a level necessary for
the prevention of the militarization of our industries and which would not impede
self-reconstruction and developrent of peuceful industries.
8. United Nations - Entry irto the United Nations, International Labor
Office, and other internatioral orgens.
. P ace Treaty - Opposition to  separate peace treaty and conclusion of
an overall und speedy peace treaty with all of the former Allied Nations. At the
peace conference, Janan shall te represented by a peoples democratic govt. When thi
is impossible, representatives of the people chosen from democratic organizations
throughout Japan shall participate in the peace treaty as Ja an's official delegates.
uestion - ill a pesce treaty of the foregoing nuture be possible, if a govt
based on a democratic peoples front were est blished?
Answer - Yes, that will certainly be possible, because the Potsdam Declaration
expressing the highest will of the Allied Nations, in reality demands that the peace
treaty be held under these conditions. Namely, the complete independence of Japan
und equality of the sovereign powers, vhich is  part of democracy from the internetional
viewpoint, are explicitly guaranteed in the Potsdam Declaration as follows: Par 10
states, "We, the signatories of this Declaration, do not seek to enslave the Jpee
people as a race, nor, do we seek to estroy them as a nation"; and par 12 states,
"When the various terms of the fore oing paragraphs are fulfilled and when a responsible
govt with peaceful tendencies is established in corfority with the freely-expressed
will of the Jpse people the occupying forces of the Allied Nations shall be withdram
immediately". For instance, in Italy, after the war when a peace treaty was conedidoad
by the representatives of a derocratic front cabinet in which the CP partieipated, md
when all of the armies of the Allied Nations withdrew as of 1947, complete independenee
was realized.
Supplement: What Will the CP Do with eligion and the Family System?
I. Will the CP Hecognize Religious Freedom?
Guestion - If the CP fains politicul porer, wont it burn Buddhist altars, and
shelves for family gods, and destroy Shinto shrines and Buddhist temples?
Answer - That is a corplete misunderstanding. Communist ideology opposes religious
ideas which advocate the existence of God and Buddha. However, even when a peoples
democratic govt is established, at no tine will the CP oppress with authority the
worship of God and Buddha which is still widely practices anong the masses of the
peonle because of the foregoing. The CP is against Shintoism and Buddhiam becoming
a tool of political control by conspiring with the Govt. Through the Postdam Declaration
state religion which served s the basis for Jpse militariam, - nameky, Shintoiam
which collaborated with the covt nd which was used as  tool to dominate the people
has been separated from govt. This is verified by the facts that the old Jpse Constitu-
tion which bespoke of the Enperor as an absolute nd sucred god has been abolished and
state protection and subsidy for Shinto shrines and Buddhist temples have been for-
bidden. In other words, religion must be treated merely as a matter of individual
belief and entirely separate from the state. The CP advocates the protection of the
complete freedom of religious belief along with the freedoms of speech, the press,
meetings and associations. Rather, contrary to your belief, under a peoples democratie
govt a real freedom of belief shall be guaranteed. In countries like Japan where
feudalistic influences are still deeply tooted, in contrast with Shintoiam and
Buddhism, the progressive Christians are oppressed in various ways) And, it is
especially recognized by all the people that the Christians were severely persecuted
during the war. The rumor that the CP will burn Buddhist altars and shelvee for
family gods and destroy Shinto shrines and Buddhist temples is the same as the rumer
that the Party will confiscate private property. Those rumors were created in a plot
by the governing class to alienate the CP from the people.
-8

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.98)
524
I. Why Were the Churches Destroyed in the Russian Revolution?
Guedtion - However, isnt it true that churches were deatroyed during the
ssian Revolution?
Answer - Charches in Russia were destroyed until a short time after the revel
beeause all over Russia, they becee the base of operations for plotting against
the revolution by people who disliked socialism and who were led by the Csar, uch
a the aristocrats, landed class, big capitalists, soloiers and priests. Therefere
as soon as the elements inst the revolution were removed, the ahurehes were
restored. Of coursc, even when the churches were closed the religious bellefef
the indiv dual was restricted in no way whatsoever. In the Constitution of the
Soviet Union, freedoa o: religious belief and worship is clearly guaranteed.
III. what Do the Communists Think of Religion?
Question - You say that the CP recopnizes the freedom of religious belief.
However, doesnt that conf ict with the words of Marx and says, "Religion if oplum"
What are the fundamental ideas of the Communists concerning religion? Is it airight
if a person who wants to join the CP is not an atheist?
Answer - By the words, "heligion is opium" Marx pointed out that in a society
of the governing class of any country, religion is like opium, because it is used
as a tool of the governing class to foster a spirit of resignation among the governed
peo le and to dope them so they cannot resist. Concurrent with the foregoing, the
basis on which religion exists is found in a society of cless strife - namely, a
place which is subjected to living difficulties and uncertainty of life. Therefere,
the Communists do not merely deny religion from the standpoint of atheim, but are
strugglint for the materializaticn of a ha y society in which religion is not
needed - nemely, a socia'ist society. For instance, the farmers life, obsolete
production methods are relied on and feudal tradition remains ona feudal land syst
People are powerl ss to cope vith constant and nsturel catastroohies. Under eapitall
systems fear and war, which until now it seemed impossible to overeome with the
haman will, are constantly in existence. Under such conditions, it can be said that
the people could find relief only in religion. It is thought that when these com
ditions which created religion are removed, and when the peoples living standards
are economically and scientifically irproved, the problem of religion will be
automatically solved. The 124th article in the constitution of the Soviet Uni
is indeed distinct in making the follorin guarantees: "In order to guarantee
freedom of conscience to citizens of the Soviet Union the church shall be separated
from the state and the school shall be separated from the church. The freedom of
all citizens of the Soviet Union to conduct religious ceremonies and the freedom
to conduct propaganda against religion shall be recognized". The fact that a
person believes in  religion will not hinder his entranee into the CP. Before
lone, after a person, as a Communist, studies the theories of Marx and Lenin and
practices them in his activities, he will undoubtedly become an etheist.
BOOK COVER
Japan Communist Party ducational Propaganda Ceries.
1. What Will the CF To with Farming?
2. How Will the CP Solve the Food Problem?
What Are the CP's Policies for Rehatilitation of Production?
4. How Will the CP Overcome Inflation?
5. What Sort of Country is the Soviet Union?
- TOkUSHIkA Political News - "The one and only progressive newspaper in Tokushima-
ken" Five Yen Per Copy
JCP Educational Propaganda Pamphlet Series No. 1
- IstIt Possible to Establish a CP Regime under the occupation? -
Date Published: 10 Mar 49. Editor & Publisher: NAKAGAWA Tadayoshi. Tokushima-ken,
Oe Gur, Kawashima Machi. Printing Firm: Yoshikawa Do Printing Co, Tokashima-ken,
Tokushima Shi, Naka Dori, 1 chome, 37 Banchi. Publishing Firmt Publications Section,
Tokushima Ken Committee of the JCP, Tokushima Ken, Tokushima shi, Kamiya machi, 1
chome. This pamphlet is printed instead mimeographed.
-90

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.93)
THE POREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
894.00B/12-249
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
13
REC°D
No. 838
Tokyo pecenber 2, 1949.
DEC 13
ACTION
in(mgreen)
FE-4enc
INFO
DCR
OLI enc
Subje et: Cormunist Pesce Pove ent in Japan.
S/S eno
EURX enc
The hetine Politicel Maviser has the honor to
m 1/
tr:nsmit to the Department ten copies of s special
report entitled "Communist Peace Movement in Japan"
W.ich appeured in the Periodicel Su.mery no. 46 of
7094
November 15, l949, prepared by the ilitary Intellisence
8
Section of General Headquarters.
6
4
The veport tre ces the efforte of the Japan Comunist
Fa.
urie the past rear to prerote s pesce movement
for she obvions purpose of ciscrediting the peece efforta
of the Tritea Staces and givine tre imprespion thet the
Soviet Union s tro only country vith a cenuine interest
in world pease e the sese ti e. the communis t peace
movement is endeavoring to convince the Japanese that
2
the United States is plennin enother worla war in which
Japan vd il be a be btlenrouna. One feset or t o movesent
249
ulerofore, is itotion for un pualy Ja
and the witlkdvewal of ull Ccoup tion fore..
The report indicates that it is still teo early
to assess aeeuretely the effectivenass of this peace
wmovement, but it te possible that it may influence the
Japanece uttitude when the finel terms of the peace
treaty become known. particularly in view of otficiel
Soviet silence on this suhject to ante.
att.
Enclosure:
"Cormunist Peuce Novenent in
Jupan" from Periodic:1 Sumaary
no 46 dated November 15, 1949.
(10 copies)
Parchment Nao to Depart ent.
C
r1
FILED
320.1/350.21
3
E
0
CN3pinks:mhp
DECLASSIFIED
E.O. 11652, Sec. 3(E) and 5(D) or (E)
9
Authority NN.D....76.00.81.
By.CD /SR NARS, Date 9 OCT 1975
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF AOTION TAKEN

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.97)
D-238Toky
SPECIAL·ARTICIES
No.
COMMUNIST FT CE TCV NT IN J'PAN
1.
kcots of. the Novement
2.
Peace Protection Societies
3.
The JCP's Program
14.
Peace Protection Day
5.
Conclusion
1.
Rocts of the Movement:
Recent news dispatches telling of developing Angic-American studies
on an early peace treaty for Japan have been anticipated for some eight
months by the Japanese Communists. Peginning with its Peace Preservation
Conference in Apr 49, the Japan Communist Party (JCP) has carried on, be-
hind its frent organizations,  consistent licsccw-directed program designed
to influence peace planning in f vor of the USSR in any way possible. On
the surface, such cperations as grass-roots "peace" rallies and "peace"
organizations, small in stature and apparently harmless in content, might
be dismissed casually as just ancther rauccus minority movement. Neverthe-
less, from a ccunter intelligence viewpoint, the fact that Japan is a de-
feated nation awaiting the final assessment on her orime of starting a ma-
jor war means that peace terms imposed, however lenient, will offer grounds
for complaint. The Comnunists are sowing their seed in these grounds even
before the soil has been turned. If this premise is accepted, then the JCP
"peace" movement becomes another preliminary skirmish in the ideolcgical
battle wrose stale is the fate of a nation.
a. Paris, Tokyo Peace Rallies: When the Japanese Communists failed
to procure permission tc participate in the Soviet-sponsored "orld Congress
for Peace, held in Paris in Apr 49, they organized their own conference in
order to. ride tre crest of internaticnal Communism's first rate peace propa-
gande barrage. Treir modus optrandi have been cutlined in this publication
previously. (See CIS Periodical Summary No. 41, 15 Jun 49, page SPA-17 "The
Communist Cultural Frcnt in Acticn") Following the conclusion of the Peace
Preservation Conference, Leld in Tokyo on 25 Apr 49, the JCP did not drop
the subject. It vent on tc spread the movement beyond the ccnfines of major
cities so that wr en the proper moment arrived the JCP wculd possess sufficient
popular support to provide its s iritual m-sters with real aid.
b. Begin Peace Organization: Organizers of the April peace rally met
4 Lay te carry cut the first cbjective of developing the Connunist type of
peac mevement all over Japan. They organized a Society to Protect Peace
(Heiwa o Manmoru Kai). Apprcximately 205 individusls and 94 organizations
Were repcrted as affiliated with the Society. The initial activities, as
planned at the first meeting, were (1) to print and distribute a lesflet
setting forth the aims of the Society and giving the nimes of its sponsors,
(2) to conduct a dicr to deor campaign to  scert in public opinion on the
society's "Plan for Pe ce," (3) to sponser ancther mass rally under the
leadership cf wonen and (4) to collect nembership fees of vlo a month for
individuals nd ¥50 onthly fcr orgenications. (a)
The list cf s. onscrs of the Suciety to Frotect Peace included 60 au-
thers or critics (twe f whon re Kor ans), 15 Diet m:mbers, six artists,
21 coll-ge teachers, 12 laber organization officials, 17 theatricel or
movis workers, 24 musicians and 22 others, most cf whem were listed as of-
ficurs in sme rganization. (b)
(a) S/I, Kyoto CIC Are, III CIC District, "Soci ty to Protect Poace,"
8 Jul 49
(b) Ibid
SPA - 11
SECRET

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.99)
SPECIAL ARTICIES
No..46
2. Peace Protection Societies:
a. Kansai Area: In accordance with JCP headquarters directives,
local peace sacieties. were organized. The procedure in Nara where the
society was formed 10 Jun 49 was typical of most of tiese bodies. There
tle Kansai Regional Conference of the Promcters of Peace Defense issued
a pamphlet asserting that the peace of Japan was on the verge of dis-
appearing, and in order to avert this calamity, every individual must
attend the proposed Peace Defense Conference rallies. The period from
1-15 Aug was to be devoted to agitation for peace.
A rally, held 3 Aug in Osaka, was attended by about 1,O00 persons.
Speakers claimed that Prenier Yoshida Shigeru was plotting with the
United States to rearn Japan and take part in a third vorld war (an
Gcho of the Mosco broadcst of 2 Jun and Akahata's editorial of 5 Jun).
To hasten this var, according to tho speakers, "orkers were. being sub-
jected to police suppression and the nevspapers and radio uscd for war
mongering. Orators attacked the propos d Pacific Pact for Asiatic na-
tions and asserted that no thrcat to peace existed where Communists were
in power. Chinese Communists were said to be fighting to"preservo peace
in China, East Asia and the world. A Chinese Communist claimed that in
China Com unists had won, not by fighting Chiang Kai-shek but by fighting
those who stocd bohind  im, so in order to roalize permanent peace "we
must oust the US and carry on a people's revolution." Another Communist
compared the charge that JCP members were implicated in the Mikata train
disaster in Tckyo in Jul 49 with the Sacco-Vanzetti trial in t e 1920's
in the US. (c)
Other Kansai area meetings were held in Osaka il Aug and in Kobe
15 Aug.. The spe ches went over the same material: the only addition
was a discussion of the favorable possibilities of trade with a Commu-
nist China and Korea. (d)
b. Akita Prefecture: On 15 Aug, Korean Independence Day, several
JCP members met with about 300 Koreans in Akita City, Akita Prefecture,
to celebrate the occasion With a "Peace Protection hass Moeting." The
usual slcgans called for freedom, peace, independence, an "educational
system suitable for a cultural state" and the ruhabilitetion of Japan
"under her own power." One banner asserted that the Communist Party was
the party of peace loving workers." JCP speakers claimed that the govern-
ment was oppressing the people as it had before the war and cited mass
discharges of government orkers as proof of oppression. A JCP labor
leader repeated this charge and urged the overthrow of the Yoshida Cabinet
and all "other reactionary elements." Having made these contributions
to the cause of peace, the speakers called on the audience for further
proposals for the agenda. The audience proposud to stop "one-sided
firing," to oppose the Public Peace Act w ich wes before the prefectural
legislature, to advocate the abolition cf the tax system and to resist
the police.(e)
0. Ishikawa Prefecture: On 26 Aug the Ishikava prefectural All
Labor Union Council sponsored a Peace Protection Rally at the Education
Hall in Kanazawa City. The speakers were all members of the JCP and
included one Korean. Four days after the meeting, representatives of
the Preparatory Com ittes for the Peacc Protection League presented a
28 point statement of demands to the governor of Ishikewa Prefecture.
These items were designed for the "overthrow of th3 destructive policies
of the Yoshida Government, defenss of the livelihood of the workers, for
Feace and Socisty for the Protection of Peace", 26 Aug 49
(d)
S/I, Hyogo Area, III CIC Dist., "Peoples' Rally for the Freservation
of Pcace," 29 Aug 49
(0)
S/I, 441 CIC Det., "Peoples Peace Protection Mass Mecting,"
26 Aug 49
SPA - 12

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.99)
SPECIAI, ARTICIES
No. 46
the ostablis ment of poc in Japan" and amounted to a declaration of
JCP policies. and complaints. A s cond document accused the government
of having dismissed various Communist or Socialist cmployecs arbitrarily
from the. prefectural government. The document was signed by represente-
tives of various Communist-domin ted clubs and societies. (f)
3. The JCP's Program:
In accordance with the suggestions which tho JCP Secretariat had re
ceived from the Communist-front "orld Federation of Trade Unions local
Comiunists chose 2 Oct ?s International Peace Protection Pay to climax a
two weeks period of agitation for peace to be carried on 1-15 Aug. On
8 Sep the JCP Secretariat issued Directive 390 to regional, prefecture1
and district committees transmitting this information and ordering them
"to integrate current shop and local strife to the strife for the pro-
tection of peace." Examples of "current shop and local strife" suitablé
for coordination with "peace" agitation were attacks on the "controlling
power," capitalists and landlords, The "controlling power" was to be
charged with enslaving the Japanese by means of "international monopolists,"
of m king preparations for another war and of r building a fascist Japan.
Communists were to tell the people that the "controlling power" was
ccomplishing these ends by strengt ening th: police force, the government
system and the Democratization Legue; by arrests, propaganda, dismissal
of workers and by causing the JCP to disintegrate internally. JCP mem-
bers were directed to oppose the Public Safety Ordinances, Advertisement
Ordinance and "other f natic laws which ignore the right of damocratic
organizations and human beings."
kembers were advised to protest against the lowering of wiges, dis-.
missal of workers, taxation, the slow distribution of staple foods and
the trials of those accused of complicity in the.Mitaka train wreck in-
cident. Strikes were to be promoted and appecls made on the grounds of
cultural and educational oppression. Agitation for an early peace treaty
must be publicized and opposition to the proposed Pacific Pact stirred
up. The desirability of increesed trade "with China, Russia and other
democratic Asiatic countries" must be stressed.
Recommended methods ere to hold rallies, publicize JCP peace treaty
programs, obtain sign:tures to petitions and advertise the resolutions a-
dopted at the Communist-sponsored Paris Peace Conference. (ε).
a. Aichi Round Table Conference: In rosponse to the Contral Com-
mittce's directive 390, local JCP organizations called leaders together
to plan mass meetings for 2 Oct. In Nagoya, Aichi Prefecture, a Round
Table Conference wes called for 15 Sep. About 50 persons representing
bout a dozen organizations attended. The usual Party-line specches were
made, but there were two notcworthy items: the admission that peace pro-
tection days from 1-15 Aug were not well observed and tho assertion that
the JCP intended to sever its connection with the perce preservation move-
ment if the non-Com unist leaders present would develop the organization.
The speaker urged non-Communists to call the rally and claimed that, "This
movement is not a Party expansion movement." (h) The latter statement
was in accord with earlier JCP stratogy which called for keeping the Party
out of the "peact" limelight in favor of working through front groups.
b. Mie Prefecture Conference: On 17 Sep a similar group of JCP mem-
bers led by Miyamoto Kenji, other Members of the Central Committee and staff
members of the Democracy Protection League met in Tsushi/Mie Prefecture,
(f) S/I, III CIC Dist., "Peace Protection League Organized in Ishikawa-
ken," 17 Sep 49
(g)
S/I, 441 CIC Det., "Directive No. 390, dated 8 Sep 49, Issued. by
Secretariat Bureau of the Japan Communist Party," 23 Sep 49.
(h)
S/I, 441 CIC Det., "Round Table Conference for the Protection of.
Peace held in Aichi Prefecture, Nagoya City," 8 Oct 49
SPA - 13
SECRET

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.99)
SPECIAL ARTICIES
:No. 46
to plan for International Peace Day. : They selected promoters and planne
another meeting for 24 Sep to make the actual arrangements. The letter
to the promoters contained the statement e ask you to participate in
this meeting due to the fact thay you were too busy to attend the prior
meeting on 17 Sep 49." (i)
c. Kanagawa Prefecture: The Yokohama, Kanagawa Prefecture, group
met on 20 Sep to plan the observance of 2 Oct. Their local directive
(No. 104), reiterated all the Central Comnittee's pronouncements and
added complaints about the dissolution of the Communist-dominated League
of Koreans Residing in Japan (Choren) and its affiliates. All cells were
urged to bring out the people in their districts. (j)
d. Preliminary Achievements: The Communist League for the Protection
of Peace. and Democracy in Tokyo sent its local branches a resume of what.
had been accomplished by "Peace Preservation Activities" up to 23 Sep,
listing the following achievements: (1) a Karsai Regional Prot-ction
rally was held and a Kansai Regional Peace Preservation Association estab-
lished at Osaka, 3 Aug; (2) an outdoor mass meeting at Nagoya allegedly
was attended by 6,oo0 persons who d:clarsd opposition to war and demanded
a peace treaty for Japan: (4) a peace rally at Kamakura on 17 Aug was
reported to have attracted a great number of "intsllectual and cultured"
persons; (5) a Freparatory Committee for Chiba Prcfecture Peace Preser-
vaticn Association was cstablished at a rally on 27 Aug and (6) a two-
day peace protection rally was held at Kyoto, 20-21 Sep. (k)
4. Peace Protection Day:
In its issue for 1C Sep, the official JCP newspaper, Akahata, traced
tho origin of peace protection day, gave a list of sponsoring organizations
and the activitius planned for 2 Oct. The sug estion for the observance
of such a day had originated with the World Federation of Trade Unions and
was taken up by the standing committee of the World Peace Convention meet-
ing on 29 Jul. The orld Peace Convention forwarded tha order to the Demo-
cracy Protiction League in Japan. Other organizations sponsoring the move-
ment ware listed as the Japan Journalists Association, the Japan Democratic
Culture League, the Democracy Protection League, the. Women's Democratic
Club and thc New Japan Literature Society. Additional organizations which
had been invited to participate were the Kamakura Peace Council Committee,
the Intolligentsia Socicty and the Japan Teachers Union..
According to the Akahata, the ends to be attained by the observance
of Peace Day were: (1) to broaden the results of the two-weeks peace cam-
paign launched on 1 Aug, (2) to bring omen and children into more active
participation in Communist organizations, (3) to gather signatures en-
dorsing the pe:ce campaign, (4) to gain. closer connsctions with labor
unions, cultural, women's, young people's and democratic organizations and
(5) to "make clear" that "struggles against political conspiracies of the
ruling classes, such as the Mitaka incident, are peace protection struggles."
Activities scheduled for 2 Oct included peace rallies, petition drives,
picture cxhibits revealing the devastation of wars, slide films stressing
ths tragedy and barbarity of figrting and a poster campaign. Where workers
could not leave their place of employment, rallies would be held during
the noon hour. At 13o0 hours an outdoor rally was planned in Hibiya Park,
Tokyo, after which there would be a demonstration. (1)
(i) S/I, 441 CIC Det., "Invitation to the Promoters Meeting for the
Peace Protcction Conference," 13 Oct 49
(j)
Spot Rpt CIC "Peace Protection Meeting and Demonstration, Kanagawa,"
3 Oct 49
(k)
Intercept, CCD/TOK/TOS 5869, Publication by League for the Protection
of Democracy, "Past Activities of Peace Preservation Association
Revealed," 3 Sep 49
(1)
Akahata, Tokyo, 10 Sep 49
SPA - 14

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.97)
SPECIAL ARTICLES
No.
Twc days later, 12 Sep, Akahata rnounced the continuation of the "peace-
preservation" agitation through the 32na anniversary of the Soviet October
Revolution. Special lectures would be given on the efforts of "the Soviet
Union to promote understending of the peopIe toward socialism" and on the
night of 6 Oct, the climax of the Bolshevik revolution, there would b a.
program of Soviet music, motion pictures, ballet dances and a joint Japanese-
Soviet picnic to promote mutual friendship between the USSR and Japant (m)
a. Tokyo-Yokohame Celebrations: The Yokohama celebration fizzled out.
The meeting was held on 2 Oct as directed but only cbout 250 persons attended.
The chief speaker, Oyama Ikuo, professor of political economy at waseda Uni-
versity, remained in Tokyo to speak at tie r:lly thers. Oving to the small
attendance, the demonstration vhich was to follow was called off. (n)
The celebr: tion in Tokyo s attended by about 2,000 persons who gath-
ered at Hibiya Park. They heard JCF Secretary General Tokuda Kyuichi and
Oyama praise the chievements of Communists in Chin:. and rejoice thet the
USSR had the secret of the tomic bomb. Both denounced the Yoshida Cabinet:
Tokud: claimed tnat it wns remilitarizing Japan and Oyema that it was in-
tcrfering with cultural :ctivities nd stt-mpting to rob educational insti-
tutions in Japan of their fre dom of research and independence of learhing.
A number of others, J: panese, Chinsse and Koreans and officials of
various labor and Party-front organizations made two-minute speeches! Re-
patriates from Soviet aress reported trat they h d been well treatedf of-
fice workers com lainad that they suffered unr asonable restrictions Koreans
denounced the dissolution of Choren: n independent journalist claimed that
"reactionary monopolistic clomonts" prevented the oublicetion of the truth;
and one sneaker asscrted that "The worid situcticn now is like a sword lying
between tho bound"ry of the USSR and the US.
If wr breaks out, Japan will
perish from the carth forever."
Hannah Fujikawa, who said that she w.s an American citizen, urged Japa-
nese women to take more part in ffairs and compared the possession of the
tomic bomb by the USSR with the possession of  pistol by a householder in
danger of being robbed. H.ni Goro of the House of Councillors predicted
that those responsbile for driving people to de th by dismissals and 1ow
wages soon would h ve to stand trial by the people's courts. After the rally
about 2,000 peisons marched for less than an hour, then dispersed quietly. (c)
5. Conclusion:
Pe ce, like so many other popular concepts, was seized upon by the Com-
munists as : screen for  gitation h ving nothing to do with peuce. The word
ws twisted to me.n vhatever "ould iurther Communist domination. It is nota-
ble that efforts were π. de tc  et outsiders nd persons of unsullied repu
t: tion to carry on the movement. The whole project w.s tied up with any or-
niz tion that could be used and formed  tingled network through dózens of
societies. To judge from the compl ints of JCP executives: nd the sm:llness
of the crowds that ttended the rallies, the peace c mpaign wis unsuccessful
except s  device to capture ttention. It had the pper.rance of & minor
flurry tc fill in . period hen public interest in Communist ctivities was
waning until something more spectacular cme long. The JCP seized any pre-
text to keep the people stirred up nd to utilize the embers of interest frcm
one occasion to st-rt another fire of excitement. It is still too early to
estimate wh't effects the local Communist pe: ce movement will h: ve on the
Japanese people once they learn the terms of the fin:l treaty, particularly
in view of officinl Soviet silence on this subject to date. Japan's geogra-
prical contiguity to  Communist-held mainland and other unf: vorable factors
should be weighed gainst the traditionally conservative attitude ofher people.
(m)
Akareta, Tokyo, 1? Sep 49
(n)
Spct Rpt CIC, "Peace Protection Meeting and De onstration, Kanaga a,"
3 Oct 49
(c)
441 CIC Spot Rpts, "Rally for Defense of Peace Held, Tokyo," 2 Cct 49;
"Meeting nd Demonstr: tion for Defense of Pe: ce Held, Tokyo," 2 Oct 49;
TOK-k-118 "Results of Meetings and Demonstrations," 1 Oct 49
SPA-15
SEORFT

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.98)
AGENCIES TO WHICH CIS FURNISHED INTELLIENCE
Period Covered - 1 Sep - 1 Oct
1949
CIS SPECIAL INTELLIGENCE
MIS
70
CIA
Armies
First
3
Second
证5
Third
Fourth
1
Fifth
Sixth
18
EUCOM
AVG
ASA
USARPAC
10
FEAF
7
COLNAVFE
14
USAFIK
PHYLCOM
RYCOM
MARBO
11
Individual
F E C
G - 1
25
G - 2
48
G-3
G - 4
31
EIGHTH A
56
DIP SEC
120
GOV SEC
2
MIL GOV
C/STAFF
3
LEG SEC
E S S
29
NRS
C PC
图2
C P S
10
C T S
3
CIE
8
PHW
C C S
2
O CE
图2
PMO
3
FIFTH AF
91
71st SIG
2
REP SEC
MISC
39
0
20
40
60
60
100
GRAND TOTAL - 700
NOTE: This list does notinclude conferences, concurrences,
telephoned requests for information or regular monthly
reports such as the CIS Periodical Summary.

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.98)
SPECIAL ARIICLES
LIST OF SPECIAL ARTICLES PR VIOUSLY APPEARING IN
SECTION IV OF CIS PLRIODICAL SUMMARY SINCE 15 NOV 47
ISSUE
PAGE
DATE
NO. 22
Communist Infiltration of the NCIU.
3
15 Nov 47
All Japan Government Communications orkers Union 11
Can the Communists Seize Korea?
17
No. 23
Communist Front Organization in Japan.
3
15 Dec 47
Electrical Power Wor.ers ano Communists (Part I) 11
No. 24
Factional Stru le Mithin Japan Communist Party.
3
15 Jan 48
Electrical Power orcers, Communists (Part II) . 11
PoJitical Strength of the Japan Communist Party. 27
No. 25
All Japan Occupation Forces Labor Union.
15 Feb 48
Obstacles Facing The UN Commission On Korea.
3.1
Korean League and The Japan Communist Party.
17
Government Railway orkers Union
19
Communist Part: Schools.
27
No. 26
Communist Exposure of Hidden Goods
3
15 Mar 48
Nakanishi Ko, Communist Diet Member.
13
The JCP Anti-Tax Movement.
21
No. 27
Youth Organizations in Japan (Part I).
3
15 Apr 48
Nozaka Sanzo, Returned Comaunist Exile
15
Communist Party Activity in Akita Prefecture.
25
No. 28
Korean Minorit. Probiem in Japan.
3
15 May 48
Tokuda Kyuichi, Orthodox Marxian JCP Leader.
11
Recent Developments in Japan Comnunist Party
21
Youth Organizations in Japan (Part II)
29
No. 29
Communist' Defeat in Korea.
3
15 Jun 48
Democratic Racial Front.
11
Commuiist Activities Among Coal Miners (Part I).
19
Dobashi Kazuyoshi, Menance to Japanese Labor . . 33
No. 30
The Japan Communist Party and the Cominform. . .
3
15 Jul 48
The Kansai Conmunists.
17
Communist Activities Anong Coal Miners (Part II) 29
No. 31
Communist Attacks on Ashida Cabinet.
3
15 Aug 48
New Democratic Republic of Korea
9
Kamiyama Shigeo. . .
17
Leftist Press in Japan
23
No. 32
Index cf Special Articles (Jan 47 to Date)
3
15 Sep 43
Reaction of Koreans to Events in Homeland.
5
Anti-Communism in Japan.
13
Communist Lfluence i Japanese ducation.
23
No. 33
The Comiunist Potential in Japan
5
15 Oct 48
Japan Comnunist Party Funds.
19
Dan: Tokusaburo: Potential Agent
25
Communist Reaction to Strike Ban
27
Communisn Ameng Jonen.
37
SPA - 17

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.99)
SPEGIAL ARTICLES
No. 46
ISSUE
FAGE
DATE
No. 34
The Yenan Communists
3
15 Nov 48
JCP Action Strategy.
13
Soviet Radio larfare
23
Korean Activities in Japan
33
No. 35
The Japan Farmers Union.
3
15 Dec 4
Ito Ritsu.
17
Soviet Radio Marfare -- Interim Report
23
The Young Comaunist League
31
No. 36
Japan Communist Party Election Preparations. . . . 3 15 Jan 49
3lst Anniversary of Red Revolution Celebrated
In Japan.
21
Hijikata Yoshi, The Red Count.
All-Japan Metal Workers Union.
33
No. 37
Japan Communist Part: Election Results
3
15 Feb 49
Japanese Repatriates From Soviet Zones
9
The Wednesday Sociey.
21
Miyamoto Kenji
31
No. 38.
Communist Influence Among Japenese Students. . .
15 Mar 49
Recent Korean Activities in Japan.
13
Communist Maritine Activities.
23
Japanese Repatriates From Soviet Zones (Part II) . 31
No. 39
Japan Communist Party Anti-Tax Campaign.
15 Apr 49
Problems Confronting South Korea
13
Oyama Ikuo
19
Japan Communist Party Organizational Terminology . 27
No. 4C.
Anti-Communism i: Japan.
15 May 49
Democracy Protection League.
13
Communist Activities in Japanese Medical Field . . 19
No. 41
JCP and Economic Stabilization Program
15 Jun 49
Communist Activities in Police Affairs
9
Communist Cultural Front in Action
17
Red Radio Warfare Trends
25
No. 42
Chinese Communists in Japan.
3: 15 Jul 49
The Pattern of JCF Directives.
9
Communist Activities Among Children.
19
Communist Cell Organization in Zenkanro.
25
No. 43
JCP Welcomes Soviet Indoctrinated Repatriates. . . 3 15 Aug 49
Railway Workers Combat Retrenchment.
11
Akahata, Voice of the JCP.
17
No. 44
Anti-Communist Movement Gains Strength.
15 Sep 49
Soviet Repatriates Livelihood Protection League. . 11
Korea Since US Troop Tithdrawal.
19
No. 45
Japanese Repatriates From Dairen
15 Oct 49
Communists Attack "Bourgeois" Press.
Security Coverage in Japan
Factors Prompting Choren Dissolution
11
3.7
SPA - 18

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.94)
THE PORIKSN SERVICE
FE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERIGA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
No. S44
Tokyo, December 3, 1949.
0k
GEURET
894.00B/12-349
wa
File
Subject:
Jaran Conmunist Party Comparative Political
13
Strength
REC'D
DEC 15
ACTION
enc
The Acting Political Haviser has the honor to
FE-28npe-
transmit to the Derart:eat ten copies of e special
report entitled "Japen Colunist Party Comparative
INFO
894.00B/12-349
Political Strength", which appesred in the Periodical
DCR
Summary no 46 of November 15, 1949, prepared by the
OLI-4encs
Military Intelligenee Secsion of General Headquarters.
EUR/X-enc
S/S-enc
Accgrding to this report. based on extensive
ITP-enc
Counter Intell:sence Corrs investisetions throughout
Japan, there hss been s deeided, slthourh rerhaps
temporary, decline in the political st.
the
Japan Comrunist Party after the high peu or comnunist
strengti.
sed in she ceneral elestion of January
1949. In both the lebor field and anong agrarian areas
J
the Cosmunists have lest sround auping the past year
7130
despite the porty's intensiried cot'visles
Concurrently
in
with the declihe in purty atrusger pnd influenee, there
has slso been meted e srowing sssi-cormunist movement
cutting seross alnest ell
ats of Japanese life,
but manifested most spe
in the labor unions.
In coneluslon tre report warne. however, they the
Communist Party strueture is otorious for lts adaptability,
and the present deel ine in strength may be overeome if
party leaders make the necessury tajustments in polioy
and tactics and if future developments more favorably
affect the connunist movement.
Enclosure:
JCP Comparetive Political
Strength", Perlodical Sumery
no 46, dated November 15, 1549.
(10 copies)
JAN 19 1950
Parclment Mat to Department.
FILD
350.21
DECLASSIFIED
CNSpinks: mhp
E.O. 11652, Sec. 3(E) and 5(D) or (E)
Authority.NND....76.0.08!
SDORDT
By.CD/SR NARS. Date 9 OCT 1975
n
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.99)
D-844Taky
No.46
SPECIAL ARTICLES
JCP COMPARATIVE POLITICAL STRENGTH
1.
Introduction
2.
Labor Strength
3.
Election Results
4.
Social Democrats and Further Decline
5.
Conclusion
1.
Introduction:
The Japan Communist Party (JCP) has shown a decided decline in polit
ical strength recently. In spitè of aggressive campaigns, the Party has.
experienced numerous set-backs and seems to have lost its power temporari-
ly if not permanently. Results of the recent elections for members of pre-
fectural agricultural land cormittees and the various by-elections held
since Jan 49, as well as significant changes in the labor field serve to
exemplify the general downward trend of JCP political influence. The lack
of JCF success, due partly to the firm stand of the Japanese Government
and partly to a series of events attributed to the Party by the general
public, has placed the Communists on the defensive. Apparently as many
important JCP programs backfired, the hidden motives rather than the much
publicized "party for the people" propaganda gained general credence.
While the death of Shimoyama Sadanori, President of the Natiohal Railway
Corporation, the Mitaka runa.lay train incident and the Taira riot high-
lighted events which disgusted the general public, the wave of railway
sabotage and the disruption of normal train schedules during the summer
months aroused widespread public resentment and revealed the JCP in its
true colors. The Japanese public seemed to have lost all confidence in
the Party's ability to live up to 'its promises and repudiated it at the
polls.
.a. Numerical Strength: The JCP has never released any membership
figures publicly. This is one phase of Party information which is kept in
strict secrecy. Although it periodically makes formal notification to the
Japanese Government of data which include membership figures, the JCP re-
portedly registers only a fraction of the true total. When the Party was
.established as a legitiate political organization in 1945, there were ap-
proximately 600 members; in Jun 46, the figure was quoted at about 20,000;
by Jun 47 estimates of the Party's numerical strength began running.into
six figures. Current reports show 87,455 known Communists with 60,000 to
70,C00 estimated secret members. Active sympathizers and fellow travelers
form an additional category to which the term "member" cannot properly be
applied. On the basis of information from usually reliable sources, it is
roughly estimated that the "active sympathizers" in Japan who do not join
the Party openly, but regularly assist it in one way or another, number be-
tween 100,000 and 200,000. It is concluded, therefore, that the total num
ber of persons in Japan today, including members and sympathizers, who reg-
ularly promote Conmunist Party aims directly or indirectly, is in the neigh-
borhood of 300,000, or approximately four-tenths of one percent of the en-
tire population. (a, b, c, d, e)
2. Labor Strength:
The Party's primary strength lies in the labor field where its influ-
ence has been entirely out of proportion to its actual membership. Recent
(a)
CI Div/JPP, Sp Report, "Japan Communist Party Structure and Membership
by Region, Prefecutre and County," 8 Mar 49
(b)
Periodical Summary No. 33, 15 Oct 49, page SPA - 5
(c)
S/I Tokyo .anagawa CIC Dist, "True Figure. of JCP Members," 24 Feb 49
(d)
S/I, Kyoto CIC Area; "Communist Party Sympathizers," 8 Feb 48
(e)
S/I, Hyogo CIC Area, "Sano Gaku's Exposure of the Actual Number of
Communists in Japan," 6 ay..49
SPA - 3
BECRET

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.98)
No.. 46
SPECIAL ARTICLES
events indicate thet ths P rty is in the miast of a real crisis as far as
labor str-tegy is concerned. ith every opportunity for staging an all-
out labor offensive earlier this year, it accomplished little more than
stirring public indignetio:, and creating some degree of social unrest
through propaganda, a itation and threats of strikes.
The JCP had set th: ste e for its offensive by initiating or continu-
ins campai ns against personnel retrenchnent, public safety ordinances, the
revised  ational Public Service Law and the revision of the Labor Adjust-
ment Law. In addition, Sonvmunist success in China and the return of Commu-
nist indcctrinated Japa..ese repatriates from Soviet-controlled areas were
counted on to strengthe. the JCF offensive. The government reduction of
persoinel has been acco..plished and JCP feil-d to incite large-scale opposi-
tion. The wational ail a. orcers Union (Kokutetsu) and the All Communi-
catios orkers Union (Zentei), recipients of the ajor cuts, were thrown
into complete confusion tirough loss of practically all of the Communist and
pro-Communist leaders i. their national headcuarters. The success of the
ersonnel retrenchment program is credited partiall to the Government's own
firm strategy in carrying out the dischar es, partially to weakened Commu-
nist influence and partially to the general feeling among government em-
phoyees that the discharges we e inevitable and could not be successfully
opposed. (f)
a. Kokutetsu: Developaents in connection with the extensive discharges
the Government effected in the ranks of the National Railway orkers Union
occupied the top spot in labor news for some time. In June, the Kokutetsu
Central Coamittee passed a resolutio. to resort to strikes, if necessary, to
oppose the discharges. Lower echelon reaction in union branches, however,
showed that a large majority of Kokutetsu worters op osed strike tactics and
favored legal means of dispute only. This reaction of rank and file union
members clearly indicated the general lack of support of the policies of Ko-
kutetsu's radical leadcrship and the growing strength of the anti-Communist
Demccratization League (Linco) faction within the union.
Prior to Jul 49 there we. ≈ cany reasons to believe that Communist-con-
trolled union brencnes oul& resort to strike tactics in opposition to the
dischar es. The fact that such strikes did not materialize is believed to
be due to the folloving factors:
(1). Death of President Shimoyama of the National Railway Corpora-
tion on 5 Jul under circunstances which pointed toward murder rather than
suicide. The incident has bsen highly embarrassing to the Party, although
JCP involvement has never been proved. In any case, the resulting public
outcry may have changed the plans of JCP's labor strategists, who probably
realized that Kolkutetsu strike action coming on top of Shimoyama's demise
would serve only to inerease popular grounds for Governnent pressure on the
Party.
(2) The wave of sabota e attempts against National Railways pro-
perty in several instances rusuited in serious damage and loss of life. In
one such event, the incident at Litaka Station in Tokyo on 15 Jul, an unman-
ned electric train crashed through the station compound and killed six per-
sons. The general public considcred Communist affiliated railway dischargees
responsible for the sabotage, and, as in the case of the Shimoyama affair, it
did the JCp's rei utatio: little good.
(3) The 94, 000 railvay workers discharged during Jul 49 are re-
ported to havo included e lar c proportion of JCP members and sympathizers.
any observers view this as an intentional Government effort to break the
Coamunists' power within Kokutetsu. The National Railway Corporation also
discharged 14 members of the Kokutetsu Central Strugglc Committee, in addi-
tion to three who had b an discharged previously. These 17 men included all
cleven members of the Co..munist faction in the Central Struggle Conmittee,
(f) CI Div/JPP, S/I, "Labor Situation 27 Aug 49," 29 Aug 49 
SPA - 4

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.97)
SPECIAL ARTICIES
No. 46
and six of the 10 members of the pro-Communist Renovation League or Renova-
tio.. Comrades Society faction in the committee.
ht the four-day Kocutetsu national convention in October, the moderate,
anti-Communist D-mocratization League assumed complete control. Democrati-
zatior: Leaguers held two-thirds of the 450 delegate seats at the convention,
while the Communists had oly 15 seats. Delegates passed a number of anti-
Leftist resolutions among hich were withdrawal of membership from all affi-
liated organizations suspected of Leftist tendencies and rejection of a
policy of resorting to force. (g, h, i, j)
b. Zentei: The Ail Communications Workers Union (Zentei) during the
past year has been experienci growing internal opposition to its Communist
leadership and has lacked the uhity which it displayed in prior years. sor
three years Zentei has held the distinction of being one of the JCP strong-
holds in the ranks of organized labor. Early in Aug 49, the Government dis-
charged about 1l,Ooo workers belonging to Zentei. As in Kokutetsu, the com-
munications union suffered the loss of practically all Party members and
thereby was thrown into complete confusion. Although sporadic resistance
to the discharges took place in some locals of the union, there was no co-
ordinated effort by the union as a whole. While few cases of conmunication
lines sabotage occurred, there was nothing comparable to incidents attribui-
ed to the National Railvays.
In Sep 49, Zentei split When all the 74 Anti-Communist Reconstruction
League (Saiken Domei) renbers of the union's l84-man Central Committee walk-
ed out of that group's meeting. Significant is the fact that the bolting
Reconstruction League faction acvocated the formation of a "legal" union,
properly gualified anc re istered with the ational Personnel Authority,
W ereas the older Zentei as a cle is now technically "illegal." The fact
that a new Zentei, if formed, vill be the only communications workers un-
ion recognized by tie Governnent ultimately ma; serve to draw a large ma-
jority of the original Zentei members into the new union. The union split
leaves the Conmunist-cominsted Zentei remnants as little more than unofficial
organization of radica conmunications workers. It also has given a strong
1..ipetus to Japanese labor unions' current atteapts to escape from Communist
control and has bolstered the formation of moderate unions. (k)
3. Election Results:
Even with increased membership, the JCP remains small as political
parties o. But in Japan,as in other countries, membership figures are not
a valid inaex of Commulist strength and influence. It is significant that
in the Apr 46 general elections the Party received 3.85 percent of the total
votes cast even though tne estitated membership was not more than 20,000.
In the Apr 47 elections, under the new single ballot system, the Party poll-
ed 1,475, 120 votes or 3.65 pcrcent of the total votcs cast in the House of
Ro:resentatives election and an almost icentical amount in the House of
Councillors election. I: th: Jan 49 Lower Housc election, the JCP garnered
2,985,065 votes or alaost 10  rcent of the total popular ballot. Final
fi ures ior this election shamed 74.1 percent of the cligible voters through-
out the nation cxcrcised their franchisc. There was gensral agreement at
the time that th se results demonstrated decided Ri ht and Left gains at the
ox onse of the middle-road Socialist Party which was reduced to less than
half its forner size. The Communists galied sone of tne moderate votes when
peoplc who had formerly supported the disunited Social Democratic Left Wing
switched to the JCP. Th. marginal poverty of th. bulk of the Japanese popu-
lation combined with th. JCP posc as champion of th: downtrodden and under-
privilegcd, comprised a: ffcctivc formula by which the Party succeeded in
CI Div/JPP, S/I, "Labor Situation 27 Aus 47," 29 Aug 49
CI Div/JPP, S/I, "Labor Situation 25 Ju1 49," 28 Ju1 49
(1)
G-2, F.C, Daily Intcll Summary No. 2596, 16 Oct 49
(j)
C-2, FC, Daily Intc1l Summary No. 2597, 19 Oct 49
(1)
CI Div/JFP, S/I, "Labor S1tuation," 23 Sop 49
SPA - 5

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.98)
No.46
SPLCIAL ARTICLES
spreading its influence far out of proportion to its numerical strength
during the last general clection. (1)
a. Agrarian Committee Elections: A strons conservative trend was
shown in the 1s Aug 49 elections for members of the farmland committees.
According to the official returns, more than 82 percent of the successful
candidates for the ll0,723 seats were classified as independents. Those
who expressed political connections were divided as follows: Democratic
Liberals and Democrats 12,350, Social Democrats 4,532, Communists 953,
Peoples! Cooperatives 731 and minor parties 469.
The Communists, who ade elaborate preparations for the elections and
campaigned extensively amon the grass roots rural organizations, succeed-
ed in obtaining less than one percent of the 110, 723, seats. The more than
1.1,o00.committees are coasidered a cross-section of rural Japan (about one-
half the Japanese population lives on the land). Most politicians attached
great, importance to this rural election as an augury for the future because
it occurred about midway between the general election of 23·Jan 49 and the
forthcoming election for the House of Councillors slated for Jun 50.
The conservative trend maintained throughout the nation's rural dis-
tricts was not unexpected i: view of the fact that the agrarian population
comprises the core of Japan's political conservatism. Briefly, the Commu-
nists made the followine sho. ring:
Tohoku-Hokkaido: Some success in Aomori and kita Prefectures, but
in general the conservatives running as independents swept the board. The
vote was heavy.
Kanto Area: Conservative gains were more strikin. Minor JCP gains
in Gumma Prefecture and in four villages in Chiba. No Leftist tendency
was noticeable.
Tokai-Hokuriku: The conservatives maintained the lead although Commu-
nist gains were noted in ie, Ishikawa and Yamanashi, three prefectures
which had been highly organized by the Communists. Voting was exceptional-
ly heavy.
Kinki: Voted strongly conservative. Small gains by the JCP in Kyoto
and Osaka cities were noted, but nowhere approached the expectations of the
Party members. Votins as light compared with other regions, possibly be-
cause of bad weather conditions in that area on election day.
Chugoku-Shikoku: A conservative trend prevailed throughout. Commu-
nists had great hopes i. this area, especially in Tottori Prefecture. The
JCP obtained a few seats in Tottori and Shimane. The Party retained its
l00 seats in Wakayama, but Communist gains were generally minor.
Kyushu: Overwhelmin ly conservative, Coamunists were not able to make
muc: headway, even in the Party's strcnghold of Fukuo.ia. (m, n, o)
One monch after the farmland conmittees were seiected, the 1lo,723 suc-
cessful candidates held an election to choose members of the Prefectural
Agricultural Land Committees. Each committee consists of two tenant farmer,
two landowners and six i. dependent farmers. At the discretion of the pro-
fectural governor, tiree cxperts ma be added to cach prefectural committee.
Final results of this 20 Sep 49 ciection shoved that the Social Demo-
crats did much better than had beer expected, while the Communists were re-
pudiatcd. The Comnunict defcat was underscored b. the election of only two
candidates out of 110 selected and untered by the Party. The JCP register-
d a miniscule four tinths of onc percent of the total candidates elected,
which indication that its so celled "regional struagle to sain local power,"
had collapsed, at l ast for  time. Th: vote was th. heavicst in Japan's
recont history with 95.ó pereont of the cligible votcrs going to the polls.
(1)
Pcriodical Summary No. 37, 15 Feb 49, pagc SPA - 3
(m)
G2, FEC, Daily Intcll Summary No. 2542, 25 Aug 49
(n)
G-2, FEC, Daily Intcll Su.mary No. 2555, 7 Sop 49
(o)
CI Div/GA, "National Elcction Commission"
SPA - 6

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.97)
No. 46
,SPECIAL ARTICLES
Tabulation of the votes for these prefectural level farm conmittees
showed the ioliowin. political distribution:
Independents
264
Sociel.Democrats
86
Denocretic Liberals
58
Democrats
21
inor Factions
17
Farsers' Party
4
-Labor-Farmer Party
3
Conmunist
2
People's Cooperatives
1
Total
456
Significantly, the Coamunist-claimed strongholds of Hokkaido, Nagano,
Ishikawa and Shizuoka, failed tc return a single Party man, the only suc-
cesses being in Kyoto and Okayama. The overwhelming proportion of inde-
pendents confirmed pre-election forecases based on the agrarian population's
traditional conservativism. The farning community apparently failed to be
noved by Communist eyhortations. An interesting co.parison, indicating
& possible change of popul'r sentiment, is found in the fact that the 23
Jan 49 general elections save the Conmunists 35 of the 466 seats in the
tower House, while the 20 Sep electio..s for 460 members of these agrarian
committees gave then but two. Many Japanese observers believe that the
principal reasons for the Comunist lack of success lie in the Party's in-
citatio.. of returnin: repatriates from the USSR, as well as its iustigation.
of various local disturbances curin) the past few months. (p, q)
b. Local Election Results: lections for assemblymen ana heads of
local bodies for the period Jan-Aug 49 sho. a total of 5,279 winning candi-
dates among whom are 77 JCP members. As in tne agrarian land elections,
the majority of the winning candidates were politically independent. The
JCP won one percent of the total nunber of successful candidates, the same
ratio of Farty members to the eneral population. Prefectures havinz JCP
Diet members made no better s o. in. than those prefectures without Commu-
nist representatives. The percentage of votes obtained by the JCP averaged
6.2 percent for the eignt-month period, according to findings of the Nation-
al Election Commissio.. This average falls short of the reported 9.8 per
cent for the combined totals in the general election ih 1949, but is higher
than the reported 3.4 percent for 1947. (r)
Many of the JCP cancicates in the 1942 national. lections and local
el ctions succecded not because they were Party members, but in spite of it:
The election held at Hiroshima Prefecture on 30.Jul 49 to fill six vacancies
in a town assembly offers a recent case in point. Of the six persons
olected, a JCP member received thc highost number of vetes, &04 out of a
total 4,300 votes cast duc to his talents as a politican rather than because
of the Part 's local popularity. (s)
4. Social Democrats and Funther Decline:
The reorganizatien and current platform of the still-divided Social
Demccratic Party indicates that. a further dcclin: in. JCP influence is pos-
sible. The contihuing unfavorable publicity.the Communists are receiving
has virtually forced thc Social Derocrats into a policy of non-cooperation.
The: do not intcnd to throv away any.of thcir gains  becoming identified
(D)
CI Div/GA, "National Elcction Commission"
(c)
G2, FC, Daily Intell Summary No. 2571, 23 Sp. 49
(r)
CI Div/GA Files
(s)
S/I, Second CIC Dist, "Activities of Hokubi District Committee of tho
JCP," 11 Aug 49
SPA - 7

=== Page 272 === (confidence 1.00)
No. 46
SPECIAL ARTICLES
LOCAL ELECTIO: RESULTS: JAN - AUG 49
Distribution of Winning JCP Candidates
Prefecture
City
Town
Village
Village
Prefecture
Assembly
Assembly
Assembly
Assembly
Headman
Total
Hokkaido
3
3
Aomori
1
1
Iwate
1
1
Akita
1
1
2
Fukushima
1
1
2
Ibaraki
2
1
3
Gumma
1
1
Saitama
2
4
6
Chiba
2
2
Kanagawa
2
2
1
5
Niigata
4
41
Ishikawa
1
Yamanashi
1
1
Nagano
1
1
Shizuoka
1
2
3
Mie
2
2
Kyoto
1
4
5
Osaka
1
1
2
Hyogo
1
1
Nara
1
1
Tottori
1
1
1
3
Shimane
7
1
8
Okayama
1
2
3
Hiroshima
5
1
6
Yamaguchi
2
1
3
Ehime
1
1
2
Kochi
2
2
Miyazaki
1
1
Kagoshima
1
1
Shiga
1
1
Total
1
6
30
37
3
77
PERCENTAGE OF VOTES OBTALNED BY PARTIES (JAN-AUG 49)
Month
DL
D
SD
C
Minor
Ind
Total
Jan-Mar
33.8
6.3
5..2
8.8
3.2
42.7
100
Apr
19.1
3.2
6.7
9.9
1.0
60.1
100
May
18.7
2.0
16..6
2.9
6.2
53.6
100
June
10.0
1.4
3.0
4.6
0.9
80.1
100
July
13.7
2.1
5.8
5.0
0.2
73.2
100
Aug
18.7
0.3
8.9
6.0
0.6
65.5
100
SPA - 8

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.97)
-SPECIAL ARTICLAS
No.46
in the public's mind with anything approaching Communism. A recent Social
Democratic publication stated  hat "the working masses have begun to criti-
cize the destructive tactics and non-constructiye acts of the Japan Commu-
nist Party." The same article i dicated that although the Social Democra-
tic Party hau, in some instanced, given linited support to the JCP, it would
refuse to join the Communists in a joint election canpaign because the let-
ter's "true object is not to win elections but to drive our party to violent
regional people's struggles," accordin to one source. (t)
Ancther example of the Social Democrats' anti-JCP stand was the recent
expulsion of two promi:ent Social Democrats ho, with two others, had con-
ferred with Labor-Farmerites enc Communists on the question of organizing a
Jiaison party for the Leftist roups. A Social Democratic Diet Committee
condemned the action of the four Leit Tingers on the basis thet it consti-
tuted a violation of the Social De ocratic policy of non-cooperation with
the Communists. Social ve... crats apparently believe that their party would
gain more than it oui lose y expeiling the recalcitrant Leftists.(u,v,w,x)
In most prefectures, no liaison exists. Between the JOP an: the Social-
ists. The Social Democratic Party clains generally to have been successful
in reorganizing its branch federations. The Organization Bureau's vice-
chief in the party's nati al headquarters stated that only in kichi, Gifu,
Mie and Saitama Prefectures is the party naving trouble. However, the Sait-
a.a Socialist federction currently is led by midcle-of-the-roai roup. The
reorganization is expecteo to be complete in Saitame after screening those
members he favor Liaison with the JCP. (y)
In Kagawa there ls reportedly no fonnal liaison, but during a recent
Mayoral b. -election ii. Sakaide city, the JCP supported a Social Democrat.
Lehind-the-scenes maneuv-ring points to "forced" support rather than liai-
son, accordiny to a usually reliable CIC source. On 9 Jul 49, after reali-
zing the hopelessness of s onsoring a Co m nist Farty candidate, the Sakaide
City JCP Committee decided to support ths candidate Whose platform at least
opposed the policies of thc conservative Democratic Liberal Party. The pro-
spective mayor rerused te offer of Comnunist support, but the Party volun-
tarily engaged in campai mln: for him. hen the Social Democratic candidate
Non the election, the Co. munists innedistely counted it as a JCP victory and
claired that their power had turmed the trick. Ths JCF pressed the same
type oi unsolicited support on other Social Lemocratic candidates in Mie and
Shizuoka Prefectures. (z, aa)
5. Conclusion:
The Communists? recent ecline in public favor and'the concurrently
Srovin movement to stop JC? advances in Japan also is reflected in the
press. During the second annual Press Yeek, observed by virtually every pa-
per in Japan, many papers printed pledges reflecting a'strong resolution to
ccmbat anti-democratic forces. Runors that the Communists were engineering
a revolution during the stimer ponths spread in the wake of the series of
violent incidents. The lic's inereasing fear manifested itself most
clearly on the labor front, where the shift of leadership from the Leftist
elements to politicall: ne tral leaders tcck place and the Democratization
League (Mindo) began to repiece the radiccl leacership of the JCP.
Even this far in advance, the principa! political parties have begun ex-
tensive preparations fc: the House of Councillors elections to be held the
CCD/TOK/TOS/5716, 9 Sep 49
(u)
G-2, FC, Daily Intell Stummery No. 2605, 27 Oct 49
(v)
C-2, FEC, Daily Intel1. Suumary No. 2584, 6 Oct 49
(v)
G-2, FEC, Daily Lntell Summary No. .2585, -7 Oct 49
(x)
G-2, FEC, Daily Intell Su.mary No! 2587, 9 Oct 49
(y)
CI Div/GA Files
(z) Ibid
(aa) S/I, Second CIC List, "Results of Election for Mayor of Sakaide-shi
Kagawa," 2 Aus 1949
SPA - 9

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.98)
JAN
No. 46
SPECIAL ARTICLES
first week in Jun 50. From present indications 122 seats, now held by
Councillors elected for three-year terms in 1946, will be contested.0b
servers ex ect further loss of Communist influence at this election. The
contested seats now are civided es follows:
Number
No from.National
Political Affiliation
of Seats
Constituency
Green Breeze Society
34
21:
Democratic Liberal
32
9
Democratic
20
4
Social Democratic
14
2
Independent Consultation Croup
12
6
Conmunist
4
3
Shinsei Club
3
0
Independents
3
1
Vacancies
3 (Caused by deaths, etc)
The Independent Consultstion Group consists of politically unaffilia-
ted men who are someihat Leit of center. Six of these are members of the
Labor-Farmer Party. T..c former members of this  roup joined the, JCF in
July boosting the Communist Councillor seats to 6.(bb)
JCP influence ana prestige in organized lebor has hit an all time low
for the postwar period and this has been one of the greatest contributing
factors to the general set-back which the Party is suffering in all phases
of its activities. Generally speaking, moderate elements have gained con-
trol over a majority of the nation's labor unions and the imrediate threat
of Communist domination of the Japanese labor movement is, for the time be-
ing at least, a thing of the past. There is little doubt that Communists,
though relegated to a minor position, will seize upon any weaknesses and
mistakes of moderate leaders and exploit these to the utnost, especially in
the labor field. The many le al restrictions recently instituted against
such favorite Co munist labor activities as strikes, slow-downs, demonstra-
tions and similar disruptive actions may result in marked increase in semi-
overt subverions. Infiltretion of secret Party meibers into the ranks of
moderate and anti-Communist factions vill probably be attempted. There are
indications that such tactics alreacy have been successfully employed in
some unions.
Communist Party structure is nstorious for its acaptability, so that
whether it operates as & legal or illegal entity makes no great difference
and it may be that the recent events did no lasting dacage to the Party.
Predictions and forecasts wit: any degree of accuracy, however, would be
difficult as well as premature. It is sufficient to note that for the
time being the Party is harc-pressed and on the defensive.
(bb) C-2, FEC, Daily Intsll Sunnary no 2578, 30 Sep 49
SPA - 10

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.97)
STANDARD PORM NO. 64
SECRET
Office Memorandum .
FED STATES GOVERNMENT
TO
NA - Mr. Allison
JAN 18 1950
DATB: December 22, 1949
Mr. Moy
FROM
NA - Mr. Green .
SUBJECT:
Tokyo's'844 of December 3, 1949
3
Fill
A G-2, SCAP report contends that the JCP is currently
ock
hard-pressed and on the defensive. Praotically all the
Communists have teen removed from the Central Executives
of the Railway and Communications Workere Unione. In the
Agrarian Committee elections of August l949, for whioh the
JCP had made elaborate preparations, the JCP succeeded in
obtaining less than one percent of the 110,723 seats.
Similarly, elections for assemblymen and heads of local
bodies for the period January-August 1949 gave the Communists
6.2 percent of the votes cast, falling significantly short
of the 9.8 percent gained by the JCP in the January 1949
general elections.
FW 894.00B/12-349
The reorganization and current platform of the still-
divided Socialist Party suggests that a further decline in
JCP influence is possible. The Socialists are increasingly
opposed to any identification with Communism (through campaign
cooperation, united struggle activities, etc.), in measure
as Communism becomes more abhorrent to the general public.
Nevertheless, G-2 concludes, the JCP is notorious for
its adaptability and it may be that the recent events, referred
to above, did no laating damage to the Party.
CC-M.Lor2h: T.(FE)
FW894.
0
FE:NA:MGreen:clh
12/27/49
JAN 1 8 1950
8
SECRET
X 048531

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.84)
INCOMÍNG AIRGRAM
DEPÁRTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEO
DIVISION OF
Ac
1662
DEC1:1949
Aoartia nae
IEPARTMENT OF STATE
12/19
USOLD, Tokyo
of
i1in
December 9, 194
: Dec 74, 1949 4:24 p
1
A
M.TI ON
F
01
49
1:FO
LCR
cohin ton.
38
-58, Dece
C
SAM
RX
The loveaber
f th Intellieance
y re red
Intel ligence Section
2
LOLC
of Conerel Icadyt It
 troition on recent
co  unist tivi
 to rouobe Sino-Je nese
IEP
Irieadsiip cnd t
  o this source, Sonso
OTI
Ros k hes reeeut!
2
CIA
reori vion  
pr tes Society, a secret
or nr biou of Jo
ritl the chinese
P
zuvion is to have ito
 usoicd o the pe icnal
49
 coni rty
tree or ai
cilists  Sitd
692.9+31
793.94
e Sino-Jt  aip Society (an orn zation
brued by suoh ro   sosiutldn of uhinesa
Residin in Jau, 
 tst front hina sose
Institute, the Ja lendshi society, 
Sino-Ja punese Treda
cently ol a eti
in rokyo to jo. s.e or
nese Octomer l0 rovo bion.
Jlhinese and Ja. snse   c phasizce tLe L ort poe
of siho-Jaranese I iths i  praises the nev o l's
sovern ent in hine. se ih the spuaker's pletron ere
luro piotures of . sn P.o lae-tun. Nolaxe
w or  the sp.
The ilitsry p lt chee sumary t lso re ort. mat
the Sino-Jupanese r  rlion Jocist is contin ing
to etraet Ju anes  i  on by its ivoouey o  de
with Comsunist Chin. he scelety has iccently cc iled
DECLASSIFIED
Authority.N.ND....76008!
on e tru te udosion to lon if and  en cuthoriti
n
By...CD/sR. NARS. Date
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R comtral Mes with notetlen of atlen

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.89)
lokyo's .-068,
Decer.ner 6, 1549.
-2
The society has estsblisued prunches throughout Japan.
Fe vecently-established  anine branch is issuing a bulle
whic cites the advante os  e derived from trede with
China and lists loce1 .s os. i  roluots suiteble for expcrt.
The tulletin warns, horev. that such trede must not be
the nonopoly of capitalists.
03.13
550 Js pen/510.1
CNSpinks: hp

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.96)
6
United States Political Adviser
894.00B/12-1949
for Japan
No. 883
Tokyo, -December 19, 1949.
13
REC 'D
SECRET
JAN 9
Mo acin
AC TION
FE
Subject: Communist Policy Toward the Northern Fishery
INFO
Problem.
DCR
EUR
OLI
894.00B/12-1949
XX
The Honorable
XEX
The Secretary of State,
U/FW
Washington.
ITP
EUR/X
Sir:
Vith reference to this Mission's -338 of December.9,
1949, concerning e counist-sponcored Northern Waters
scm
Fishery Jonference end the sctivities of the Japan-Soviet
1/
Friendship Society, I have the honor to transrit to the
Depart.ent a copy of a surmary of information, dated
November 29, 1949, prepared by the Military Intelligence
007339
Section of General Fead uarters on the subject of the
trae rolicies of this Society. This organization is a
pro-Soviet front grour sponsored jointly by the Japan
Communist Party end Joviet representatives in Japsn.
Since its establishent in .pril l949 the Jociety has
placed inoreaci ng emphesis on the promotion of Soviet-
Japanese trade. Since Lieutenant-General Kuzms DEREVYANKo,
XR
Soviet Member, .llied Council for Japan, is Hononary
President of the Jociety, it may be  ssumed that its
activities re fundamentally in har ony with Soviet policy.
894.628
While the Jaran-Soviet Friendship Society hes devoted
its primary attention to srousing interest in the possi-
bilities of trade between the two countries, acoording
SECRET FILE
to investigation of the ilitary Intelligence Section
(paragraph 7 of Enolosure 1), there ere indications
that the Society ihtends to use the controversiel northern
fishery question as a gambit both for trude promotion and
political advantage. One move has been to hint that the
Soviet Union may be prepered to extend Japan fishing
rights in northern ereas. Representatives of the Society
have stressed the necessity to expend Janan's fishing
FIL
areas, and the Sooiety hus reportedly made prepurations
to launch a "Society for the Establishment or North Sea
ED
Fishing." In 1ts issue of November 4, 1949, the commuatst
FAP
November 2 to discuss the northern fisheries under the
joint sponsorship of the Japan-Soviet Friendship Society
and
D.
E.0. 11552, Sec. 3() and 5(D) er ()
SEORET
Authority NN.D...760081.
By CP/SR NARS, Date 9 OCT 1975
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF AÇTION TAKEN

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo.s aespatcn no. ,
December 19, 1949.
SEORET
-2-
and the All-Japan Council of Fishery Workers Unions.
The meeting discussed the reopening of fishing in
northern waters which heve been closed to Japan since
the end of the war, the comnunist rerresentatives
emphasizing that this problem cannot be solved by the.anti-
Soviet end anti-Communist policies of the Yoshida Cabinet.
It was agreed at the conference that a nation-wide move-
ment should be launched to promote. the reopening of the
northern fisheries. There is enclosed an ATIs translation
21
of the November 4 article from Akahata describing this
conference. The Military Intelligence Section report
(unclosure 1) also describes a round-table conference
h 1d in omori on November 4 devoted to the subject of
promoting fishing in northern waters.
The Japan Com unist Party has also openly taken up
the yuestion of the northern fisheries. it first party
policy was directed toward orgnizing workers in the
fishing industry. On May 6, 1949, however, kahata
published an article indicating that the party line was
to be expended from promoting the fisherren's "strugsle"
to the international aspects of the problem. The article
deseribes communist efforts, especiaily in lomori, in
organizing a lerge fishery coorerative union. This
organization, the rtiele states"is successfully expanding
its campaign to request Soviet Russia to authorize demooratio
fishing, and to ask the Jarenese covernnent to cease its.
anti-Russian propagenda snd adopt pro-Russian policies."
The article continues by explcinine that "the fishing
ground expansion problem is now.attracting the attention
of all fishermen in connection with the decrease of fish
and the increase in fishing bots."
Throughout the sum er end autumn of 1949 the Communist
Party has carried on two-fold activity in connection with
the fishing industry, stressing both the party's "struggle"
to improve n tional fishin conlitions nd the possibility
of internetional fishin creements.
3/
There is enclosed : copy of un erticle from the
October 30, 1949 issue of Akahate, translated by ATIS,
describin  Jommunist Party round-table conference on
the subject of restorin the Japanese fishing industry.
Kyuichi TokUDA, Secretary-Generul of the Japan Communist
Party, partioipated in the meeting. He cited as a specifio
ceus. for the deoline of the fishing industry "the extremely
restricted areas of our fishing grounds, resulting from
our surrender to the llied Powers." Review'ng the pre-
war "imperialistic" oharacter of Japanese fishing, Tokuda.
char ed jat the Yoshida Cabinet cannot possihly regain
Japan's full fishing rights. "The only way left for us,
Tokuda added, "is total democrstization of the Japanese
economy and willing and wholehearted oooperation on the
part of the Japanese people wi th the Soviet Union end the
Five-Year Program." This will enable the Japenese to
take part in "north oceanio fishing by offering labor
power
SECHET

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.98)
Decsmber 16, 1949.
SECRET
-3-
power and chartering necessary equipment to the Soviet
Union." A similar offer of Japanese fishing technique
and equipment should be made to the Chinese Communists:
if fishing rights re to be recovered in the East China
Sea. Finally, Tokuda proposed that Japan, in cooperation
with the Soviet Union and Communist China, should under
take a basic oceanogrephical survey "throughout the Pacifio".
It is  po rent from the information developed by the
Militory Intelligence Section that the Japan Communist
Party hs come to realize tihe political importance of the
northern fishery problem and is endeavoring to deal with
this problem in its propagenda an front activities in'a
manner best cslculoted to benefit the communist cause
in Japen. Judging fronm the devious lines of argument
employed by com unist spokesmen in dealing with this
cubject, it is epparent that the Communists have found it
necessary in their attempts to vin over Japenese fisherrien
to take into careful account one of their principal
grievances, namely, the fact that the llied Powers,
ine!. i the Soviet Union, have deprived Japan of her
best fishing grounds. The line of argument used by
the Conmunists is that the pre-wer fishing industry was
an arn of Japanese imperialism snd therefore deserved
to lose these choice fishing grounds; but if the fishing
industry is now properly "democratized" there is a good
possibility thit sone of these fishing grounds may be
recovered. This is te"pting bait to hold before Japanese
fishermen. Finally, the Comm unists have evolved e plan
for some kind of cooperetive enterprise between Japanese
fishing interests and the Soviet Union and Comaunist
China. This plon apreurs to be an alternetive measure
in the event that tie Soviet Union and Comunist China
do not, for political or other resons, see fit to
restore fishing rights to Japon. The Communists apparently
know that neither the Sovlets nor the Chinese Conmunists
are likely to be ble to exrloit adequutely the fishing
grounds now denled to Japan, and that there may be propo-
sitions advanced to charter Jananese bouts and equipment
and engage Japanese fishermen to operate in these areas.
The Conmunists are undoubtedly attempting to conditior
Japanese fishermen to such a prospedt.
While it is doubtful if the Japanese Comnunists
heve as yet made much progress in their efforts to win
over Japanese fishermen by such tactios, it must be
reali ed thet they cre dealing with a problem of vital
importance not only to fishermen but to Japanese generally.
In the event that Jupan is unahle through the peace
settlement to seoure greater aocess tc . .ounding fishing
areas, partioulurly the northern fisheries, comnunist
schemes for Soviet-Japanese "oooperative" fishing enter-
prises may very well acquire fur creater appeal than they
heve today.
Respectfully. yours,
W.. J. Sebald
SECRET

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.92)
Tokyo's despatch no. 885,
December 19, 1949.
SEORET
Enclosures: litt
1. Summ ry of Informetion
dated Novenber 9, 1949,
Military Intelligence
Section, GH, SCF.
2.
Antiele fron sahsta
dated November 4, 1919.
Article fro. kahata
dated October 30, 1949.
Parchment Lat to Jepartment.
522.5
CNSpinks:nhp
(1213

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.94)
nclosure1 to Despateh no. 883
dated December 19, 1949 from the
Unitei States Politicel Adviser
for Jepan, Tokyo; on the-subjeot
"Comriunist Policy Toward the
SECRLT
Northern Fishery Problem
(Y)
GHERE EEAD U.RTERS
FR EAST CORAND
Militury Intelligence Section, General Steff
CI Div JPIB/NR
29 November 1949
SUY OF TN
SUT:
Trade Policies of the Japan-Soviet Friendship
Society
1. s the slimax to s six- onths cumpeign al uluted
to establish it es the pro-Soviet cultural group to
surc..
 ccrlier JaF-sronsored crcanizations of the
kind, the Jaran-Soviet Friendship Society (HIsso SHmy
YYoKaI) held its insusural meeting in Tokyo on 22 April
1949. Prominent cs sronsors of the inau urel were It.
Gen. Derevyanko and other : e bers of the Soviet Minsion,
important le ders of the Jr, and pepresentetives of
Chinese end Koreons resident in Jupen. General Derevyenko
subsequently confiried his cordisl interest in the
Society by eccerting tre position of Honor:ry President.
hereas the publieity build-ur durins the
preparatory stases of the Society, snd the funfere
attendent unon tho inau urel mseting itself, lsid
chief emphasie upon the role of the nep Society as
cultural leader in xatters r:lating to exchange of
information between Juran and the Soviet Union, it is
to be notod that one of the rincirles cnuncisted at
the iheugurul meetine vae: "Let us aevelor trsde between
the Soviet Union cna Jupan.". uong the undertekings
specifically rentioned st ti.c nestine es coals of the
Society were: 1) Investigution into Jaranese-Soviet
trede, und 2) xchenge of cultural, economical end
politicel misslons between the tro countries.
E. That the Jepun-Soviet Friendship Society
was to be a pro-Soviet orginizotlon, akins e strong
appeal for mombershir to la or groups,  anl hevins as its
aim the furthering of oultural und trade relationshipe
between Japan und the Soviet Union, was cleurly in ioated
in the ohoice of offioers oleoted at the inaugurel
meeting of the Society: Chosen es Fresident wus KaN
Makoto, nd as the two Vice-Presidenta, EiI . Yoshi
and. HoRIE Muraiohi. Kan is Chuirman of the National
Congress of Industrial Unions, und one of the JOP's
ohier labor authorities. He was ohosen as delegate.
but not given permission to go, to both the Tenth
MOscow
SEURET

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure l to Tokyo's
despatch no. £83,
December 19, 1949
SIGAST
-2-
Moscow Convention of Soviet Trede Unions, April 1949
and the Lilan Jongress of the orld Federation of
Trade Unions, July 1949. In April 1940 he was an
active promoter. of the JoP-sronsored Peace Freserv.tion
Conference, hela in Tokyo in conjunction with the Paris
Congress of Vorld Partisans of Peace. Hijikata has long
been one of the Jof's chief cultural leaders.. Active in
Japanese theatrical circles, he is popul rly known as the.
"Red Count" because of ris Loscov trsining and comunist
leanings, ani enjoys s cordisl associetion with the.
Soviet Lission in Tokyo. Horie is a JoP tuthority on
economics  intern tional eff irs, vith lons experience
as a lesde. i: -e pred pro-Soviet groups,
officiating frequentiy :s lecturer for the Democretic
Scientists'ssociation.
4. Inmedietely subsequent to the officisl ineugura-
tion of the Japen-Soviet Frieniship Society, the Society
itself und, it is to be noted, the JoP es vell, em b:rked
upon a cmpaign to obtain menbers enl to estahlish
branches or the Sooiety throughout Japan. This campaign
laid increacinstress  pon the trade aspects of the
Society's progre..."
On 25 pril 1949, Notification No. 131 was issued
by the Kansi Region i Jonmittee of the JoP; entitled:
"Toward the Expousion nd 3trengthening of the Japan-
Soviet Frieniship Society". This notificetion, in the
course of stressing the necessity of informing the
public about.the Japcn-Soviet Friendship Society, states
tht "a widespreaa lemooretic racial front should be
set up in ajeordunce with the decicion resched et
the 5tr General Leeting of the Jentral Jommittee, ineluding
raci:I industrial c pitalists (rolling stoek companies
shipyards and foreign trudlng comanies vhich sre sided
by orders plecea y tie Jovict Taion)". The 5th Generel
Meetiny referred to was held by the Jor Jentral Committee
on 5 und 6 February 1s49. It 1s sianificant that the
Party should choose the new Jupan-Soviet Friendship
Society es e channel through vhich to pursuo its economio
objectives.
On 13 may 1949, the Society lc 1d a meeting of its
Central Committee, at whloh the necesslty of guining
20, ooo labor union menbers was stressed, end at which
also the Society's impending role as promoter and
supervipor of Je- -Joviet trale. was dis cussed. ATaNaBE
Miohio,. Councill c. e Boclety and ohief JoP repre-
sentative in tuvivivies connected with: the Jorld Federation
of Trade Unions, spoke of the inoreased orders of rolling
stook, barges, fishing ships and the semi-diesel engines
by the USSR. It is reliably reported that subsequent to
this
SUOPRET

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure I to Tokyo's
despstch no. 883
December 19, 1949.
SECRET
-3-
this meeting of the Society's Central Committee, both
the Society and the JCP have been giving partieular
atten tion to shipbuilding activities in the Osaka area.
The Osaka branch of the Japan-Soviet Friendship Society
has appealed to smell industrialists y propagandizing
the "huge. profits" accruing to Japanese enterprises
which do business wi th the UssR.  In line with the appeal
to labor discussed at the meeting just referred to, may
be cited a petition issued over the names of the President
and Vice-Presidents of the Society, together with the
name of  3 ichio, in which re uest is m de of labor
unions for donutions to the Society. The petition reads
in part: "Our Society is trying to portray to our people
the real state of affairs in various fields. such as fine
arts, science, technigues of production, life, politics,
economy, eto., of the Soviet Union; to improve the
commercial relationship existing between Japan and Soviet
Russia."
5. is an important part of its popularization
csmpaign, the Japan-Soviet Friendship Society cispatched
its Vice-President Horie Muraichi and its Councillor
Natanabe Michio, among others, as lecturers snd advisers
to various prefectursl preparatory committees. In a
discussion of the Japen-Soviet Friendship Society with
members of the National Congress of Industrial Unions in
Nagoya, on 7 May 1949, Horie told the lebor men that
economfc coalition between Russia ond Japen was being
planned through the Society. Subseguent to this Nagoya
visit of Horie's, an invitation letter was sent out on.
2 June 1949 by SUZUKI Masueki, member of the JCP and head
of the Japan-Soviet Friendship Freparatory Committee in
Nagoya. In inviting addressecs to s round-table conference
for promotion of trade between Japan and Russis, to be
held in Nagoya on 7 June 1949, the letter stated in part
"In order to protect our industries end
the workers' livins, it is absolutely necessary
to promote friendly relations with the Soviet
Union, Chinese Republic and the United States
"As to Soviet-Japanese trede, a round-table
meeting was he ld in Tokyo last .pril in whioh a
represent:tive of the Soviet Union, Lt. Gon.
Derevyanko, seve his consent to be the honorary
president of the Japan-Soviet Friendship Sooiety
He also committed himself to promote the reopening
of Soviet-Japenese trede.....
'Exports for the Soviet Union are tea
ships, rolling stook, rails, eledtrio instruments
machine tools, steel, eto. Most of them are manu-
factured in the Tokai Distriot ..:.It is not too
much to sey thet Soviet-Japanese trede is our only
means of livelihood to proteot end rehabilitate
the native industries.
"In order
SEORET

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.94)
Enclosure l to Tokyo's
despstch no. 883
December 19, 1949.
SECRET
"In order to protect the native industries
whieh went to rain as a result of the destruotive
polic: of the De.uocratic-Liberals' covernrtent,
and to rehebilitate our country, there is an
urgent need to rcoren Soviet-Japunese and Sino-
Japanese trale ithcut intervention of a third
nation."
Pollvio l i. ioutions of the Jaran-Soviet Friend-
ship Socissy's crade policy are pretty slc rly inticated
in the mention of Lt. Gen. Derevyenko's sponsorshin of
trade between the tio countries, and in the reference in
the last paragrarh uoted, to trade witi.out intervention
of a third nation. It is interestins to note that a
notification concerning tie seme round-table conference
wes issued on & June 1949 by the ichi Prefectural Com-
mittee of the Jor,
At the 7 June round-table conssrence in Ngoya,
which was sttended anony otlers by ter representatives
from Nagoya business concerns, Torie Luraichi was the
chief upeater. The sist of his speech is as follors:
"In order to protect t e inaustey of Jarar,
we ust promote trade with. Chins and with the
Ussh. So long as the tr de of Jaren is made
with a certaie country only, we shsll never
hore to reeliae the indenenlence of Japsn and
never hope to "roteet the inaustry of Jaran.
Realistically, the trudo betvcen Jaran und the
USSR amounts to two billion ven t reseit. The
Ussh wants ships, loeonotives end vahicles. In
rarticular sie is oing to plece orders for i
grest meny velicles, whieh ill be weed for pinine
In Siberie. The exrort by Ja  n of  cehines for
the minin indus try therefore see s ronisin.
In exolonge for such artioles, soke, cocl, luther,
cement, bluer lead, uper for
s, ,
will be importea into Japo..
"The s hes unnounoed that trade will be
carried on unuer a bertei systom, as e general
rule, but she is prepared to pay for excess imports
in dollere. Since the Fssn is hot fer fron Japan,
Jupen cun benefit from euse of transportution and
can use her own ships. Also since the trade is
carried on between ti e evernments of the tvo
countries, there is no chunce fo  ivete traders
who pursue rrorits to wodge ther l: into this
trede. In case commodity prioes  nd weges should
rise, payment for soods exported is to be made
in aocordenoe with such rise in conmodity prices
and wages. Therefore, ontorprisers ure in a. very
adventageous position, being able to raise the.
wages of their vorkers without suffering any loss.
"Trade
SEORET

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.91)
Enclosure l to Toliyo's
Despatch no. E.c.
Deceiber.19, 1949.
S2ORE2
"Frade vith the ussl is mot e more hore, but
has hod actuel successee in the p st. Trade with
the Ussn will beco.me the foundction of traie with
Chine, vhiet is to be pronotea in the near future.
So, we must undertake lerge-sc le rropae ide for
the pro otion of Jaran-Ussn trade. Trsde with
the Ussin,  ith ohins,  nd vith e Eorea unified
Horth una Jouth, shoula be pror oted by seans of.
netion-wide ropacla."
a little leter in his lecture tcur on behelf of
the Japun-Soviet Fricndship Society, Horie spoke at a
Ins sponsored by she Seciety in Vahata, Tukuoku
Prefecture. His subject vas "The Soviet hion nd
Sorld oonony", oni in the couree of  is sreech, he
st.ted:
acericen c pitalists re ettempting to
control ll vorla treio, but re runnin into a snag
bec use of the ov rv el. in vietory of tre Chinese
Co unist ry....The only way for Juran to recover
is to overthrow tre Yoshiao Cabinet and immedistely
cstsblish trade wit) t e Soviet Union :mi Red
Chine."
6. The Soviet News, ofrici1 or n of the Japan-
Soviet Priendship Jociety, hes freguantly made mention
of the. Socicty's inserest in trade. In issue No. 1s of
the MHens, dutoa o ugust 1sas, there is un srticlu on
a reand-teble lisct srion between Jarinese usinsseren
und 3oviet dele etes, heli on S July ls49, at  hich
expedlting of tr de between Jarsn ra the Soviet, na
mchinery orlere,  ere the elief t   atesussed. In
the sune iseue, the  syor of Kyoto is uotsd s saying
thet "Japan-Soviet trade is indeed the road for the
developlent of Kyoto."
7. Althousl the Japen-Soviet Priendahip Society
has directed the major rart of Lts treie romotion
campuian at inaustri lists n business...ea, tlore hrve
been inlio. tions thtt thu. Society iatends to make use
of the controversisl guestion of northern ses fisriae-
rights us : c abit botl for trele promotios and politicel
adv.nture. t the enl of June 1949, when it teuporrily
seened probable tlut n lercs-soule labor offensive would
r  und to the credit of the Jop, YesrTI Yiyosl ice, e
Counoillor of the Je cen-Sovict Friondshin Jocicty una
 merber of tho Jor, ena also : renorter for tie newsruper
Osaku Jiji S iuno, hod this to s y bout the international
situation:
"... Within a few months Jepan will be
extremely or ressed, and will not be sble to prosrees,
by reason of heivy taxes, discher~ of workers,
econondo pnio due to rise in rio. . loes, house
ront
SEURET

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.92)
nclosure 1 to Tokyo's
Despetch no. 88.
Decerber 19, 1949.
SECRET
-6-
rent nd. land rent, vith destruetion of industry.
t that tine the Soviet vill uniert ke diplomatic
teps for Jurar, ena it vill relesse fishins rights,
l suprly  teri ls. Ip cen be plainly seen, also,
thet the present economie crisis  ill be renoved
by the Coianuniste."
This state ent of Woshii, r le in convers tion, perheps
 ins as itionsl si-niricance in li-lt of the fact that
Yoshii knous the Russins lrnanare  cd soletimes translrtes
Soviet Ra io news for tis Ne no Frefectural Comaittee
of t! e JOP.
On 1o Depte b.r 1s4f, the Jape n-Sovist Prienastir
Societ is ucd s mimco-r phei conmunio tion snhouncing
c.lisolsaion veeting to be Lola at Nolu Hall in Tokyo,
on 1 Cctober l949. Inoluaed in +o arenda for this
meeti, loa  iti pl. ns for ti 's celebration
of tie tsna inivers r of the dasslan Cotober Revolution,
were the two itons: 1) Soviet-Japanese to
gotion
novelent snd future olicies, pnd 2) Hortl sen ci hina
industry prohle. t this. ectin letenabe Hicrio gave
a Suneral report on the  otivities of the Socicty in
the six montls since ite for al insu ur tion. Fe statel
that "sacisfuctory rusul's
vo been ce inea b isretoring
lecturers to the vavious listricts in order to distribute
inform tion on the importance of estsblishing Japen-
Soviet Friendslir Societies sad of promotin: Juren-
Soviet trede.
. Shigchiss,  Jor represent tive
at the teetine, steted in substence ss follous:
"muny cunnerics nl fishin fecilities are
idle aue to t.e peesent restrictions on the fishing
arees. It is nec . y fer sll persons e a ors ni
zations concerned vltl. fichine to hola   eeting
to discuss et ns of exps nding our fishing sieas.
The Jaran Ficlher en's Union, Nichiro orkers'
Union ana the Tokyo Marine College profossors must
hola reeti es to aisouss cotivity plans.
fisheries colunittee will bo established in this
(Japan-Soviet Friendship) Jocioty nd vork towards
the esteblishmcat of  Sooiety for the Este blish-
ment or North Seu Fis ing."
..S
ted in kshata, 4 November 1949 1seue,
round-t: conferenoe on Northern Sea Fisheries was
held on'~ Lov.
under the joint sporsorship of the
Japen-Soviet Frlendship Society and tho ll-Japen
Council of Fishery Vorkers' Unions. (The meetino
strategioully precoted the Diet he rines on the lew
Fisheries Bill, soheduled for later in November.)
Signifioant
SEORET

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.94)
nclosurel to Tokyo's
Despatch no. 88
December 19, 1949.
Significant statements made et this  eeting are extracted
fror Akahata as follows:
Present at the meetine were Horie Mursichi.
of the Jepar-Soviet Triendship Society, HWk-D.
Satomi fro. the JCP Jentrel Committee, NCSaM.
Sanzo nd Suimmm Kazuyoshi from the JoP caucus
in the Diet, IUulI Jumpei (Sreaker of the
Iwate Prefecturel ssembly), Mm M Miichi
(official of the Fisheries geney end member of
the Chiba Fishermen's Jouncil), : IYiGI Yutaro of
the Fish ries Jurvey Office, MOTCKI Hisaji of
the Polar Whelins Company, ena representatives
from the ll-Janan Council of Fishery
rs
Unions.
The conferees disoussed the reopening of
fishing. in the northern sees, which has been
closed to Japan sinoe the terninetion of the w.
The Communist representetives emphasized that
the problem cun ot be solved by the anti-Soviet
und Enti-Jormunist rolicies of the Yoshida
Cabinet, but cen be solved only through peuceful
and denocratic mcasures.
The conferees reached the conclusion that 
nation-vide movement must be leunched jointly
by the enterprisers :nd vorkers, with populer
backing, to rosote tie reopcning of fishing in
the northere waters, throu-h friendly reletions
between the Soviet Union nd Jupan. it the same
time, cn  ssoei tion of intur edisries shbull be
formed to aprenl to basinese  pi politicel circles.
These round-teble conferences in Tokyo should be
continued, nd dt the so tine prineiples of the
moveient should be dissemireted to locel units
so that the irive will develop on a nation-wide
scale.
OlUR. Kiyot: ku, of tke Hokkai Shimbun newspaper,
said: "the 10o,000 persons Who were enatged in
fishing in the northern waters in pre-war days
are by no means anti-Soviet or anti-Jomunist...
They  re looking for the ecrly resurption of fishing
activities in those watcrs."
IlDA Satomi a oted Manacing-Director
I.IY.Th of the Russo-Jepanese Fisheries Co. as
havine said, in the November issue of the m cazine
Minsel (Hakodate publiostion): "In order to
resume the fishing Industry in the northern waters
we must reoupture the Kurii Islands." Hekamada
commented on Miyats's stote. lent in saying, "as
long as suoh milituristio ideas are held, the
reopening of fisheries is quite impossible. I
believe, therefore, that the sufferinfs of fishermen
Must be allevi: tod by new methods."
IYAGI
8EORT

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.94)
nclosure 1 to Tokyc's
Desp=tch no.. ac3,
December 19, 1945.
SECRET
-8-
IY GI Yutdio, of the Fisheries Survey
Office, ststed thet incidents involvingtrespassing
into the northern sea fislin rounds hal arisen
from the fact th t fiching vessels from all over
Japan are nov forced to converge on the Saniiku
coast ena nort vards, bec use of the limited
coastal fishin sress. "The problen has now
reached the poirt," he ssid, "where fishermen
and af il: d political bosses elone cannot find
a solution, ani vhere a national movenent is
necessary."
On 4 Movember a round-table conferencc took plece
in omori, with fiching industrislists of thet city and
members of the JoP porticipa ting. The subject of the
confere:ce was promotion of northern seu ficling.
Explaining that fishine in the hertrern ureas is at a
stendstill, Chairman ShIeMcY. of the omori Municipal
isseubly declared in th o ing  diress th:t "partisan
ship must be set sside, uai : lover-level movesent
leuhched to tide us over this crisis." Followins up
thi
it, Horie Mursicri of the Janan-Sovist
Friendship Soclety suggestod that  ll' pnti-Sovitt ana
anti-Communist propumss should be aropped to enable
effective joint effort for solution of the fi
problem. The members of the coafercnce cave this
susgestion unenimous approval,  nd egreed upon the
establish. ent of  n lomori brsner of the Society.
8. The trede promotio. ectivities of the Japas-
Soviet Friendship Society were vot for otten on the
occasion of the Societ: 's celebration on 10 November
of the Fena snniversury of the eei n Cctober Revolation.
at this reetius, Jsracuse busiacscsen, sccording to
skahsta, were rerresented by  r ri, of tr Tran
Rolling Stoek Industrimlists ssociavion
course of his speech t the :naiv rsory mes , vrenked
Lt. Gen. Derevyeako for tie nur erous orders from Russie,
which haye revivel Ju unes
y ors for the kind
treat. ent rive to Jap lese businossmen by Soviet Laspectors.
Naka also mentiored his hope th't more orders will come
from the Soviet Union, so thet the Japa ese will he ve
more oprortunity to cultiv te muturl understanding between
Japen oni Russie. Lt. Gen. Derevyonko, in the course
of cenerel rome rks on t e Ruscin esiro for as e rly
peace tresty for Japen, stated thet the "Usan's prograns
for worla peuce include tre timplirication of eco.omio
and trade conneptions vith v rlous countries."
9. Su ury: Iu is evide:t th. L the Jarun-Soviet
Frl endship Soolety was "ro sored by the Joi as an
orgarizatlo. through wi: J3F end Soviet trade policies.
might be pursued, oither jointly with, or under cover of,
pro-Soviet cultural aotivities. The Society has made
a strong attempt to attraet the interest of both labor on
the one hand, and snll industrialiuts on the other.
holding
SECHLT

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.93)
Enclosure i to Tokyo's
Despatch no. ees
December 19, 1949.
SECRET
-9-
holding out as an iaduce ent to mehership the expanded
trade with the Soviet which would sccrue as the result
of the Society's activities. It  ay also be expected
that whatever phases of Japanese-Soviet relationships
the JCf wishes to propava: dize, even such economio end
political matters as moy crise in connection with s
peace treaty, will be channeled through the Jarea-Soviet
Friendsric Society to its wide nd v ried sudieace.
10. Information contuinel in this Suamery of
Inform tion was obteiied from reliuble sources end is
considered to be probably true.
ST

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure no.2 to Despetch no
dated December 19, 1949, from th
United States Political Adviser
for Japan, Tokyo, on the subjeot
"Communist Policy toward the
Northern Fishery Problem".
(CCFY)
TRANSLATICH
DOC. NC. 52229
Full Trunslation
AKALATA - 845
4 November 1949
"Seek Reopening of Nortnern Sea Fishing Through
Soviet-Japanese Firendship; Nation-Wide Movement
Needed".
A round-tcble conference on northern sea fisheries
was held under the joint sponsorship of the Soviet-Japan
Friendship ssociation end the ll-Japan Council of
Fishery Jorkers Unions from 1300 hours on 2 November at
the Councillors' Club. mon the 30-odd persons present were
the following: UilI Juapei,   ker of the Iwate
Frefectural Assembly; V TalaDE Eiichi, an official of
the Fisheries Agenoy and e meaber of the Chiba Fisher en's
Council; IYAGI Yutaro of the Fisheries Survey Office;
HOxIE Yuichi of the Soviet-Japan Friendship Association;
MOTOKI Hisaji of the Polar Whalin Company; representstives
from the All-Japan Council of Fishery Workers' Unions;
HAKAnADA Satomi of the Com unist Party's Central Committee;
and NCSAKA Sanzo and Ulllka Kazuyoshi representing the
Party caucus in the Diet. They discussed the reopening
of fishing in the northern seas, which has been closed
to Japan since the ternination of the war. it the neeting,
the Comaunist representatives emphasized that this problem
cannot be solved by the nti-Soviet and anti-Comunist
policies of the Yoshida Cubinet, but cen be solved only
through peaceful and demoorutic measures The conferees
reached these conclusions:
A nation-wide movenent must be launched jointly by
the enterprisers and workers, with populer backins, to
promote reopening of fisheries in the northern waters
through friendly relations between the Soviet Union end
Japan. At the same time, an assooiation of intermediaries
should be formed to appeal to husiness and politioal
circles. These round-table conferences in Tokyo should
be continued and at the sane time, the prinoiples of the
movement should be disseminuted to local units so tha t
the drive will develop on a nation-wide soale.
The prinoipal statements a de at the conferenoe were
as follows: Nosaka Sanzo: "I have no speoial plan,
but I hope that you will leurn from the experlences gained
through the uotivities of the Sino-Japanese Trade
Promotion Sooiety. It would be fruitless to oarry on
negotiations with the present anti-Soviet, anti-Communiat
government. It is. espeoially important that those
operating fisheries should phange their ideas drastioelly:"
Murakami

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure  to
Tokyo!s despatch
no. 823, December 19,
1949。
--2-
Murakami Jumpei: "Fishermen on the coestal. areas
of Senriku are suffering severely from poor catches.
I hope thst somehow the  uestion of northern seas fishing
will be settled favorably."
Omura Kiyotake (HOKYAI S I BUN): "The 100, O00 persons.
who were engeged in fishing in northern waters in prewar
ys are by no moans anti-S viet or anti-Communist. They
earnestly desire to work; in al. incerity, they ere
looking for the eurly resumption of fishing activites
in those waters. I believe that those who now have the
right to speak are the fishermen who were forced to
work at wage rates of 80 sen to one n
lay in the early
years of the Showe period."
Hakamada Satomi: "Lana in -director Miyata of the
Russo-Japanese Fish-ries Co. in the November issue of
the Minsei (a magazine published in Hakodate), states,
'In order to resune the fishing iniustry in the northern
waters, we must recapture the Kurile Islands.' However,
as long as such militaristic iiess are held, the reopening
of fisheries is quite impossible. I believe, therefore,
that the sufferinys of the fishermen end Tirmers in the
Tohoku nd Hokkaido listriets  ust be alleviated by
new nethods."
Liyagi Yutaro: 'I feel tr t the ineidents involving
trespassing into the northern sed fishing grounds have
srisen from the fuet that fishing ves els from all over
Japan are forced to converge on the Sanriku coast and
northward becsuse of the limi ed coustal fishing areas.
The problem now hes reacled the point vhere fishermen
and affiliated political bosses alone cannot find a
solution snd where a notional movement is necessary."
Public Hearings on Fisheries Bill.
Both Houses f the Diet will hold publie Learings
on the Fisherles Bill, which provides for e redistribution
of fishing rights The House of Councillors will hold
its hearine on 14 and 1s November, while the House of
Representative's hearing is scheduled for 16 through
19 November.

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure 3 to Daspatch no. 883
dated December 19, 1949 from the
United States Political Adviaer
for Japan, Tokyo, on the subjeot
"Communist Polioy Toward the
Northern Fishery Problem.
(CCFY)
AKAHATA, October 30, 1949.
Importance of Restored Fishing Industry Stressed. TokuDA
Explains Party Folicy at Roundtable Conference.
Sponsored by the Jomaunist Farty, a roundteble
conference for discussing fishery problems was held
on the twenty-eighth at the Jouncillors' Hall.
The cix y-odd persons participating in the conference
included: MataNaBE, from the Fishing Village Culture
Association; YalDA and IYYaiA from tre Drift-Net
Fishing Associetion; TAGUCHI and NADA from the Deep-Sea
and Draw-Net Fishing Association; and me members of
various other interested orgenizations such as the Seamen's
Union of the Whaling Section of the Japan Fisheries Associa-
tion, the Fisheries Reseurch Institute, the All-Japan
Fishing torkers' Union and the Board of Fisheries.
Representing the Communist rarty, Secretary-General
TOKUDA, Central Comittee Momber I KAinD, Diet members
SUNALA, NAL NISHI, FULIZWA, IDEDA and TASLIRC attended
the conference.
Cn this occasion when visws were exohenged in
regard to the fishery bill being introduced in the current
session of the Jiet, TokUDA delivered & speech on the
Party's policy for the fishing industry and on some
problems now facing us as foilows:
"The Communist Party will take up the fishery
problem as one of its most important policies because
the fishing industry is, among other things, of such
a nature that it can be restorei most easily and is
an important key to the solut ion of the problem of food
shortsges.
"So far, in the profit-seeking capitalistic society,
large-scale fishing has been managed for purposes of
export. From now on, however, we cannot expeot any
development of a fishing industry designed for export
only. Marine products must merit high anpreciation from
us as a source of albumen and fats for our people.
"The very cause for the deoline of Japan's fishing
industry is the extremely restricted ereas of our fishing
grounds, resulting from our surrender to the Allied Powers.
Formerly, Japan took up part of the Artio Sea, Yellow
Sea, and the East and South China Seas for the purpose
of achieving her imperialistio policies. Now, we cannot
and should not hope to acquire these areas again.
"First,

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure 3 to
Tokyo's desp tch no.
883, December 19, 1:49.
-2-
"First, Japan pushed quite an aggressive policy
to get as lirge a caten as possible. For example,
she closed the Kurile fishing srea in the North ocean
and went as far as Yemchetks for her agcressive and
randon fishing. This, et one tine, resulted in exhausting
the salmon and troute in tvo rivers in that region.
"Seconi, Jupan intruded enl spied upon the second
Five-Year Flan of re Soviet Wnion.
"Third, the Je panese Covern ent engcced in many
illegal mneuvers behind the seene to promote disorder.
'These inmorsl activities on the part of Japenese
resulted in very be: feeling devulopine in the Soviet
Union egeinst the Japanese evernment ana our rishing
interests. The stne san be said in regard to the
Sast and South Chins Seu preblem. The Chinese Communists
already have manifested  n ttitude or opposition toward
the Yosnide Government, whiet is responslble for recent
Japanese pueressien.
"In view of thece f-ets, it ls nothing but a vain
dresm of the imperi listie Yoshida Govermmene to try
to regein full fishing risnts I do not mean, however,
that there is ne Lope ut wll The only way left for
us is total decoeralizstion of the Japanese cconomy and
willins and wh olehe rted cooperotton on the pert of the
Japanese people w  the sovict Uaion in the Five-Year
Program.  This vd n enable the Jayanese to take part in
North oceenle fislling bp offertmg lsbor power and
ol ro  ng necess ry epuipsent to the Seviet Union.
"The Chinese Comunlete lso reed laborers including
techniciens. So we shell be welconed both in the East
and South China See nd in the Yollow Sea To be ready
for these opportunities, Lowever, it le necessary for
us to switch the present undemoerstic system of our
country to a demooratized covern ent by having bicger
and stionger lemooratio organizations.
"Next, the bisgest domestic problem is finanee.
At present eleven big banks, ineludine the Bank of Japen,
are monopclizing fint nce onl ar. pressing all industrial
quarters to reduce wages und personnel.
"The fidi ing industry is no oxoeption. If managenent
fuils to join us in the ot  gle because they ere Democratic-
Liberals, they will be hanin themeelves. All fishing
people

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure 3 to Tokyo's
desratch no. 883
December 19, 1949.
-3-
peorle, whether e.ployers, employees or villeges, must.
fight in a joint strugale. In this connection, our
Tarty will promote the increase of general purchasing.
power in order to  et rid of the present monetary
stringency and trensfer eny control by bureaucrats to the
autonomous hends of the fishing workers and consumers
in the interests of the public except for some large
operations which should be carried out at the responsi-
bility of the government. Thus, it will be possible to
eliminate all controls within three years.
"At first, ll vital industries should be nationalized
under the people's management and in the future they
should be put under state control and management. The
fishing industry will be subjected to this measure for
purposes of sound development.
"Taxation is particularly inequitable in the fishing
industry. I advocate ebolisi.ing taxation on any enter-
prises smaller than midale sized ones. Total income
taxes should be levied at a prorressively higher rate
on those earnin more than 400,000 yen per cnnum. Any
tax should be levied so as to leave 20 pereent of the
total income, outsise of living expenses, as savings.
For future development, must stimulate both publio and
privete enterprises through the accumuletion of capital.
"In conclusion, I propose thet we conduct a basio
oceanogrerhicil survey throughout the Pecific in close
coopcration with cll neihporins nations, particularly
the Soviet Union and Communist Chin:. Based on this
survey, we shall be i bl. to modernizc fishing industry
fully es a link in the goneral improve...ent of netionel
installations suct fs reccnstruction of fishins ports,
mechanization of ths proces inr of ac.uatic proaucts
and utilization of electrie power."

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.94)
THE POREDGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
No. 8
Tokyo, Deceaber 1, 1949.
RESTRICTED
13
REC'D
JAN 4
ACTION
Subject: Asiatic o ens Jonference.
FE
INFO
DCR
OLI
The Acting Folitical  dviser hes the honor to
89
UNA
enclose a cory of a petition d ted Novomber 28, 1949,
from the Preparatory Conmittee for Participation in
94.00B/1
the -siatic oren's Jonference so edulei to besin in
J
Peiping on ecember 6. The Japa ese Preparatory
Committee selected nine Japanese and one Korean voman
as rrospective delerstes to the reipi r meetine. ceneral
Feadaaurtere, however, lid not c itsceizs clesr nee to
leave Jaian.
2
2
49
citt
Enclosure:
Petition fron irepuratory
Committee for lartlcip tion
in siatic lomen's Conference
in Tapun.
Parchment Mat to Department.
310
CNSpinks : mhp
3
RASTRICTAD
FAB
1312
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS. WITH A NOTATION OF

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure to Despatch no. £s0
dated Jecember 1, 1949 from the
United States Political dviser
for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject,
asiatic Jomen's Conference".
(CCPY)
PETITION
November 28, 1949.
To: Ir. Villian Sebald, Merican member of the llied
Council for Japan.
From:
Aijiya Fujin Kaigi Sanka Junbi Jikko Iinkai
(the Preparatory Committee for Participation
in siatic onen's Conference in Japan).
Dear Sir:
On July , 1s49 Homen's International Demoerstic
Federation has usked us, Japarese wonen, to send
delegation to the siatic Momen's Conference soheduled
to be held in Feking from Dec, 6, 1949.
Since then we have been prepering for sending
delegation, dividing all Japan into nine blooks to
select democraticslly each block's delegste trrouch
the unification of the women's demoeratic front in
Japan. So, there are about 5 million Japenese   n
perticipsting in the campaion of sleputchins Jelegution
to the siatio omen's Jonferencs.
He, Jeprnese vonen, bs ve been subjeot to militatistic
and feudelistio education for a lons tine. Now we re
defeating this voke in order to figit for and vin peace,
freedom snd demooruoy. Now we are doing our best to
secure lappiness not only for cur country, but for all
human beings in the vorla. o eernestly lesire to send
our delegel ion to this vceting of demoorstic women 1l
over the world, und to join the discussion for our oin
and our children'e h prinese.
e hore you will help us to realize participetion
of Japenese womes's delegstion in slatio /o en's.
Conference.
We enclose herewith the lists of Japanese wonen's
delegutions to the siatic io..en's Conference, und of
affiliates of the freparatory Committee for Participation
in asiatic Jomen's Conforence in Japan.
Yours obediently,
/8/ Ogawa Tomoko
Ajiya Fujin Kaigi Sanka Junbi Jikko
Iinkai (the Preperatory Commit tee
for Participation in Asiatio Women's
Confemoe in Janan).

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.92)
nclosure to Tokyo's
despatch 890, Decenber 21,
1949.
Hov. 19, 1949.
List of Japanese Deleg tion to siatic Jomen's Conference.
NAE
PCST
SETSUYO LNI
Meaber of the League for the Defense of
Democrecy; social critic.
TOF IKC : A2 SYDA
Member of Japan Demoerutic Mriters and
Critics ssoci tion, Democratic Momen's
Club, and the Japan Democratic Jomen's
Council; writer.
FUYI SHID..
President of the Jemocratic omen's Club;
menber of the Japan Democratic Vomen's
Council.
CHTO NY JI
Member of the Tokyo-to Teachers Union;
teacher of primery school.
YIDEO ID.
Wife of Mr. Iids, the sscused of Mitaka
cse".
O  . .
Chief of vesen's. Osake Branch Union,
li Japun Life Insurence Comp nies
mployees Union; member of the Japan
Democrstio omen's Council.
T..Y. SHIB.
lresident of Louse-vives' .esociation of
Osulke; manager or Usaka Jooper tive
Union; member of the Japan Denoeratic
lo en's Jouneil.
PIDENC ROINO
"Smen Scction Shief, iiyagi loeal
distriet union, ll Jom.unication
orkers' Union; member of she Japan
Democratie omen's Council.
FUJI LOHIGAMI
Tomen Jection Jhief, Nippon Iron
Refinery Co. Yahata Jorkers  nion;
member of the Jupan Demoorstie omen's
Jouncil.
KI -ON-JU
Ul. irnan of the Leegue of Democretic
iclean omen esidin in Jepen; mecber
of the Jaran Der.ocratio onen's Council
3 privute secretaries: persons not vet finelly decided.
Jiye Fujin Faici Janko Junbi Jikko
Iinkai (the Preparatory Comaittee for
rarticipation in Asiatio omen's
Conference in Japan).

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
despatch 890, Dece ber 21,
1949.
ffilictes of the freparatory Committee for Partici-
pation in si tic omen's Conference in Japan.
Nomen 3ection of:
All Japan Press Vorkers Union.
General Federetion of Bank Employees Ynions.
All Government. Office orkers Union.
Main Office Branoh Union, Government Railway
Jorkers Union.
Jom.unist Farty of Juran.
ll Conmunication Morkers Union.
Tokyo Branch Union, Fire, Larine, Injury
Insurunce Com anies mployees Union.
Kanto District Branoh Union, 1l Japan Uxrress
Company .orkers Unlon.
ll Japan State Hospital Smploymes nion
Generel Pederation of rrivate Railway orkers
Unions.
malgamated metal orkers of Jayan.
l1 Jan rintine nd Fu lishing orkers Tnion.
Lesgue of Democrstie Murses.
Cen-Ro-len (Liaison Jouncil of All Tde Unions of Japan)
Japan Cooper-tive Union.
League of Demooratic Korean onon Residina in Japur.
Demooratio omen's club.
Japan Democratie omen's Council.
Demoerstic Dres: -makina Culture Club.
