894.20212 Military Affairs. Army. Army Posts. Fortifications. Defenses. Military Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., Military Activities Of Japan In Mexico Including Gathering Of Information. Espionage. Propaganda., January (File 1712)
ID: 894.20212-1712   Pages: 42   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.20212-military-affairs-army-5
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.93)
 Mursan of h
OFFICE OF
ICAN REPUBOC AFPAINS
ment of
FEB
1945
JAN 2 71945
AFFAIH
IN REPLY, PLEASE RSPER TO
FILE. NUMBER
105-3855
Zile
BY SHLCIAL MESSENGER
Da te:
January  1945
Tb:
r. Freaerick B. Lyon
Chief
DEPA
Division of Foreign Activiy Correlation
Department of State
894.20212/1-1845
ne
John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject:
Academia de la Lengua Japonesa
Mexico
Investigation in this case is predicated upon the charge that
the above-captioned Japanese school was serving as a vehicle for dis-
semination of Japanese propaganda to its pupils.
As of possible interest to you, there is attached horewith a
copy of a memorandum furnished the Bureau by a confidential, reliable
source setting forth information which shows that the Academia, now
located at Calle Carlos B. Zetina 52 and 52A, Tacubaya, D. F., has not
been licensed by, nor does it function under, the official sanction of
the Secretaria de Educacion Publica al though it has registered with the
Secretaria de Hacienaa (Treasury Department) for the payment of taxes.
This institution has an enrollment of approximately 143 pupils between
the ares of 5 and 13 years, and instructs in the Japanese language,
religion, and sports.
FEB 15 1945
These data have been made available to the American Embassy
and to the Military and Naval Attaches at Mexico, D. F.
Enclosure
DC6
cc - Director of Naval Intelligence
Navy Department, Washington, D. C.
nal
h
a..
cc - Assistant Chief of Staff
G-2, War Department
11.12
Washing ton, D. C.
2..1
Attention: Brigadier General C. W. Clarke
PORYICTORY
BUY
Jan 23. 1974- FB1 42
By
12/11178

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.94)
Ro:
ACADIMIA DE LA LEIGUA JAPONBNA
MOEXICO, D. F.
Inquiry by Source A, usually reliabie, conceraisg the e
institution, has developed that it was previously an entity or 
BORJA, Colonia Del Valle, Merico, D. F., prior to the interwoms
latter school by the Wexican Federal Government as an alien 
The parent college is now operated by the Secretarie de Defemem Memion
der thO Pame LA KSCUELA HIJOS DEL EJERCITO NUMERO UNO.
Upon Separat1on From SAN BORJA, LA ACADMIA DE LA LMGUA JAPONBA
was established at Calle San Martin 15, Tacubaya, D. F., but has simee bom
moved. to 1ta present location at Celle Carlos B. Zetina 52 and Sa, Thsubaya,
D. F.
The school 1s under the directorahip of YSHI CHIKA YoshIDA, he,
togother with his wife, CHIKA YOSHIDA, constitutes the faculty. Thees two
Japanese nationals came directiy from Japan in mid-l940, umder contreet to
teach their native tongue in mexico, D. F. The instruotors initially possessed
a six-months' residence permit according to Source B. of unkmomn reliebility.
which pormit was iater extended indefinitely at the instance of the then
Japanese Ambassador in Mexico. Thie source notes that their true mission mas
the inculcation of the Japanese philosophy and "Bushido" in Moxicas-born Japen-
●so.
Source B describes YOShiDA as a "thoughtful, philosophical type of
man, a Japanese patriot, well indoctrinated with the Japanese braad of scholar-
ship." He is said to be opposed to Dr. KISo TSURU, who 1s well known as 
dominating leader in Mexico's Japanese colony. This source indicates that
his prinoipal objection to TSURU has been the materialistic cast of his mind
and TSURu's insistence that any Japanese funds in Mexico that oan be unfrozen
be used for the aid of the Japanese here rather than being used as YoshIDo
wolld like to dictste, to aid Japan in carrying on the war at home if same
can be transmitted to the mother country.
According to Source B, YOSHIDA preaches to the young Mexican-born
Japanese that a great future awaits them and at the end of the war, relations
between Mexico and Japan will be very close, with the homeland depending on
vast Japanese interests in this country. When the Japanese diplomatie mission
left Mexico. it was reported that the Ambassador insisted that YOSHiDA return
with the group, but changed his mind after a meeting between YoshIDA on the
one hand and the Ambassador and Japanese Military Attache on the other, at
which time YOSHIDA is said to have convinced them that his presence in Mexico
was too valuable to permit his repatriation.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.93)
YOSHIDA speaks mo spamtah, and was isterviupé 
preter by Sourse A, ia eampesy with an emglayee of La Osieime
Hacienda (Moxicen Pederel Treasury Repartmest) ia Tacubaya, D. Na
of the ACáDmãA, which instrusts approximately l43 Japanese pupéls
at five pesos per month per student. The sakool operates bussos Por
tion of the student body, part of which is instrusted in the mormidg and
other in the afternoon.
When questioned as to any connection the school or roshina himself
might have with Dr. TSuku, the interviewee leughed significently, and it wass
indicated by the interpreter and according to YOshIDa's words, he carried o
no relationship with TSURU, knew nim only by name, and that the latter bad mo
connection with the ACADEIA.
Tho ACADEMIA DE La LENGUA JAPONESA, BCCOrding to SOurCe A, 1B Dot
listed in the indices maintained by the Secretarie de Educacios Publica, mer
has it been licensed to operate by the Government, although such is a requis-
ite of Moxican Federal law. The file maintained by the Socretaria de ducaeige
Publica concerning COLkGIo SAi bOitJA simply indicates that 1t has been iater-
vened and placed under custody of the Socretaria de Defensa Nacional for oper-
ation under the name indicated above.
source a, however, reports that the ACADExiA is registered in the
Oficina Subalterna de Hecie. da, Tacubaye, D. r., ror tue payment of texes,
the registration having been accomplished ay 25, 19iz. Its capital was
11sted at 350 pesos for the purpose of culculating taxes duo.
ACADEMIa DE L. LENGUA JAPONESA should De distinguiahed from the
institution operated at an sarcos l5, Tialpan, D. F., which is apparontly
under the auspices of tne COMITE JAPONE DE AYUDA MUTUA. 1n which Dr. KISO
TSURU is a Director.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.94)
FORDEFENSE
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
WASHINGTON 25 D. C.
ADDREBS ALL COMMUI
BUY
UNITED
STATES
SAVINGS
February 22, 1945
BONDS
ANDSTAUPS
VIA REGISTERED MAIL
26 2 44
CONFIDENTIAL
ES
ORS RANCH
C
Prm
C
894.20212/2-2245
CENTR
Mrcliftonp. English
Department of State
Arditect Building
Room 101
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Englishs
We have received the following translation of an article
appearing in the Mexico City Newspaper "Excelsior" on February 15, 1945:
"CULIACAN, Sin., Feb. 14 - A great sensation was caused by the
news that the authorities had just discovered a well organized
group of Japanese spies in Los Mochis, who made use of a
powerful radio transmitter to send news to submarines or to
Japanese ships in the Pacific.
The authorities are proceeding very cautiously in the
matter and have alr ady arrested the Japanese Alfonso C. Teramoto
and twenty others who are believed to be connected with the
criminal activities.
MAR
The governor of the State has issued instructions to the
FILLO
Prosecuting Attorney that the matter should be thoroughly
2
investigated in order to clarify the case and to indicate those
who are to be tried in accordance with the articles of war.
5
The discovery of the radio transmitter, which is said to
have a powerful range, was made by Sr. Pedro Ramirez, alien
property inspector, who, on visiting a building ocoupied by
the Japanese Teramoto, found the apparatus in one of the
basements.
It is suspected that many Japanese residents of Sonora,
Sinaloa and lower California are involved in the crime and for
this reason steps are being taken to find out the ramifications
of the espionage.
(D

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
Mr. Clifton P. English
Page two
February 22, 1945
The agent of the Federal Public Ministry (Ministerio
Publico Federal) is closely interrogating each one of the prisoners
in order to determine his part in the case, whioh promises to be
sensational, in order to inform the Secretaria de Gobernacion of
the results.
In the meantime secret agents are working actively in the
investigation and have received orders to double their watch
over suspicious foreigners."
It will be appreciated if a verification of the facts alleged
in this article can be obtained through the Embassy in Mexico City.
If the facts are substantiated, it will be appreciated if any call
letters or frequencies involved in connection with this case can be
made lmown to us. We, in turn, will advise the State Department of
any pertinent information which may come to our attention.
Very truly yours,
RL.E. terti
G. E. Sterling
Assistant Chief Engineer
and Chief,
Radio Intelligence Division

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.90)
TELEGRAMSE
Departptat
Chargs to
Washingion.
28m.
SLLRET
SECRET
AMEMBASSY
MEXICO CITY (MEXICO)
20212/2-2245
The Fcc has called to attention of Department
story which appeared in Excelsior February 15 date-
lined Culiacan that Mexican authorities had discovered
group of Japanese spies in Los Moohis which communicated
by radio with Japanese vessela in Pacific. Story olaimod
Alfonso C. Teramoto and twenty others were arrested.
Please determine accuracy of this story and if facts
are borne out, supply Department with call letters, fre-
quencies ano hours of transmission used by the alleged
spies.
38
(为0人)
Confidential Fi
CS/D
894.20212/2-2245
FOWRPEngliah:LM
2-26-45
fom
11945
DCRARA Unit
Anar ...a.g
Rfv
es
Cat

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.96)
march 7, 1945
In reply refer to
894.20212/2-2245
CONFIDENTIAL
Dear Mr. Sterling:
Upon the receipt of your letter of February 22
quoting a story about Japanese spies which had appeared
in the February 15 issue of the Mexico City newapaper
Excelsior, I am pleased to enclose paraphrases of the
telegrams on the subject which were exchanged between
the Department of State and the American Embassy at
Mexico City. The Embassy reported that the story was
erroneous.
Very truly yours,
Clifton P. English
Enclosures:
Paraphrase of telegram sent to Mexico City.
Paraphrase of telegram received from Mexico City.
Mr. G. E. Sterling,
Chief, Radio Intelligence Division,
Federal Communications Commission,
Washington, D. C.
8921.2012
ines
PdPEnglishtu
3-5-45

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.96)
PARAPHRASE OF TELEORAM SENT
To:
Embassy, Mexico City
From:
Department of State
Date:
March 1, 1945
n0:
459
Please submit complete report on the story which
appeared in Excelsior February 15 datelined Culiacan
that the Mexican police had uncovered Japanese espionage
group in Los Mochis which had been communicating with
Japanese ships in Pacific Ocean. If the story is
accurate, please supply Department with technical in-
formation regarding call letters, frequencies and hours
of transmission.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
PARAPHRASE OF TELEGRAM RECEIVED
To: Mexico City
From: Department of State
Date: March 1, 1945
No:
288
Story which appeared in Excelsior is completely
falee. Mexican authorities have taken no action and
no transmitter was found.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.93)
DEPARTMENT
INCOMING
DIVISION OF
OF
CENTRAL SERVICES
TELEGRAM
STATE
TELEGRAPH SECTION
OFFCEOF
AMERICANHEPUNBCAFFAING
FO
MAR 11545
RL
RS-1185
Moxico City
This tologram must
nc/e
closoly paraphrased be-
Dated
March 1, 1945
fore boing communicatcd
to anyone. (SECRET)
Roc'd
12:15 a.m.
Secretary of State
Washington
288, March 1, 7 p.m.
894.2021
EXCELSIOR newspaper story which was mentioned in
Department's tologram 459 of March 1, 1945, complotely
crroneous. No radio transmitter located.
Mexican
2/3
Government authoritios.taking no action.
MESSERSMITH
145
EEC
MAR 1 7 1945
FILED
8
ay
9.1
尤
0
2
12
C
S
N
口
1

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.89)
BAR HOOVER
reo nee
MAY 14 194
Jederal Bursau of Inusstigutts
United States Department of Juskir
ahington. P SO AND CONFIDENTIAL
OFPARTMINT OF STATE BY S PEOTAL USSENGER
OFFICE OF
IN REFLY, PLEASE REFER TO
FILE NUMBER
MAY5
1945
DCK
20212
of nvesti ation
5.245
e alle tion that a short
imlou, exico.
5
ureto 1 menorandum
2
reo cettin: forth the resuls
orenentioned allegat.
ll radio transmitte
MA
ical ms
C
FORVICTORY
161945
BUY
UNITED
STATSS
WAR
trrent
BONDS
STAMPS
C
auir cneral Jurter W.
Clarke

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.91)
Mareh mM, 1945
Re: Japanese Radio Ssation at Les Meckis,
Simalee, Mexiee;
Mexice, D.F.
The Mexieo Cisy Press for Fob. 15, 194s carried am arsiele
which stated that Pedro Ramires, the Aliem Froperty Gustedian fer the
State of Simales, elaimed to have dissovered the existemee ef a shert
wave redie transmitter im Les Moehis, Simalce, whiek tramsmitter.
accerding to Ramires, was hidden in a building whiok was formerly
oceupied by a Japanese mamed ALJONSO C. TERAMOTO.
RAMIKKZ slaimed that he had diseovered this tranemitter
while imspecting abandoned Japamese properties in his distriet and
stated that the radio must have been of resent soastrustiom imssmch
as it was not ineluded in ThRakOTO'S original inventory at the time
of his coneentration from ths State of Sinalos.
RAMIRkz stated that he had hed technical experts examime
the tranamitter and they aivised shst it was stross enough to reesh
slightly in ezeess of one hundred miles and it was their belief that
it was used to transmit broadeasts to Japanese submarines eperating
in the waters near the States of Sinalom, Sonora end Baje,Califormia.
The newspaper artiele in question further went on to state
that as a result of RAllkkz's discovery, twenty Japanese had been
taken into oustody but bad been released due so the faet thet thore was
no evidence against them.
Soures O weports that the allegsd radio transmitter was found
in e building loccted et Celle Alvaro Obregem fss in Los Mocbis, Simalee,
Mexice. premises where the Jepenese, ALFONSO C. TKRaMOTO, had previously
operated an ise plant. The plant in question, mecording to Souree ©.
had been ineperative Sor a considerabls peried of time. Souree C stetee
shat the apparatus in quest1on wes diseovered by PEDaO RAMIRXZ end AURšL1O
B. SC0BAR on Pob. 14, 1945.
Soureo C Turther reperte Shat Col. FORrUNATO LARAJAS, Special
Investigator from the Mexiesn Department of Gobermacion, was sont frem
Mexioo City to imvestigate the sase. Col. HARaJAS took ovor the epparatus
in vwostion and isauod a receipt for same on Feb. 19, 1945 in order that
he might return the epparatus to Mexiee City.
During the eourse of the iavestigation at Los Mochis, two
teehnieel redio experte, Mamely: Messrs. FROOSO and GAKCIA, both empleyess
-10

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.93)
of Pan Amerisan Werld Airways were appointed to inspeet the alleged radie
transmitting set. Their repers was te the effect that the apparatus was
not a radio transmitter but simply medieal apparatus used in Klestre-Terapy
work. The apparatus mad a mame plate en the front reading "Usa Patemt
#lassev2 - Neestrikis-Apparatus. Tokoyo, Japan". These radie teckaieiems
further reported that the apparatus in cuestion could comeeivably be
converted iste a redio transmittins set by making sertain modifications
but thet at best it would have an extremely shert range. These experts
fursher stated that the apparatus when viewed showed no indieation
whatsoever that any attempts mad been made to modify it in any way.
Frem Souree D inform tiem was received that she Japamese,
Alfonso C. TERakoto, hed left Mexice more than four years ago to reture
to Japem.
Souree D further reported that in their opinion the stery
comserning the finding of the transmitter was nothing more than "yellew
propagande" and that as a result of their investigation they wore closing
the oase.
No aotion hes been taken in this matter by the Mexiean Goverm-
meat against any individual and the report that twenty Japanese had been
arrested in connestion with this interview is ststed to be a gross
exaggerasion.
8

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.94)
—Jπ
Jan. 23, 1976- FB1 2
JOHN ENGAR HOOVER
2/11/78
DIRECTOR
DOIR
B
Federal Bureau of Inuestigation
United States Department of Justire
NA
Washington 25, D. C.
PERCONAL AND CONFTDENTIAL
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
FILE No. 65-30336
60.60
Date:
November 19, 1945
111
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
ー4
NOV  1943
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
894.20212/11
From:
John Edgar Hoover, Director - Federal Bureau of Investigation
Bubject:
JOHN REDONDO BENJAMIN LO.INIC
SUTTOI. (BlANT), with aliases
MEXI.CO
For your information, there is attached a copy of a statement given by
John Redondo Lenjamin lominic Sutton (Brant) to the office of the Legal Attache,
Mexico, D. F., on October 20, 1945.
Sutton was interviewed when it was learred on interrogation of Josef
Aermkes in Germany that Sutton's nane had been given to Hermkes as a contact on
a proposed espionage mission by Hernkes tc Lexico in 1944. Hermkes operated as
a uerman espionage agent in vexico from 1940 to early 1942. During this time he
945
collaborated with Georg Micolaus, a German agent, who operated in Mexico and is
now interned in the United States. Hermkes was arrested by the mexicans in early
1942 and was, thereafter, repatriated to Germany tarough the United States in
Jane, 19142.
Hermkes stated that plans were made for hin to retirn to lexicg in 1942,
where he was to contact "ilatsushita" who is believed to be Ricardo T. Matusita, a
Japanese, who was connected with the Portuguese Legation in Mexico, looking after
Japanese interests. Tnis Japanese was to put Hermkes i touch with "Colonel
Mishi", alias Nick, who was probably Colonel Yoshiaki Mishi, formerly the Japanese
Military Attache in Mexico who was repatriated to Japan. Information was recently
received from Tokyo, Japan, that Colonel Nishi was killed in Malay in 1943 or 1944.
Matusita was to alsc put nermkes in touch with Benjamin Sutton, alias Durango.
C
S
Sutton is a United States citizen of poor repute who has spent-many
because of a trip he made to Japan, allegedly uncer the auspices of the Japanese
Legation in Mexico. It will be noted that he denies this in the attached
statement.
DEC
Enclosure
FOBYICTORY
BUY
CC
Chief of Naval Intelligence
CC
WAR
UNITED
STATES
Navy Department
War Department
19
BONDS
Washington, D. C.
Washington, D. C.
STAMPS
Attention: Brigadier Cheral
C. W. Clarke

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.96)
12
PEREONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
65-30336
Late:
November 19, 1945
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
I rom:
John Edgar Hoover, Lirector - Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject:
J AN RLD)NDO BLNJAMIN LOINIC
SJTT. (BruNT), with aliases
EXICO
ror your information, there is attached a copy of a statement given by
John nedondo enjamin Loninic sutton (brant) to the office of the Legal Attache,
mexico, D. ., on ctober 20, 1y45.
button was interviewed when it was learned on interrogation of Josef
nermkes in Germany that button's nane had been given to Hermkes as a contact on
a proposed espionage mission by herakes to exico in 19lh. Herakes operated as
a uenman espionage agent in exico from 1940 to early 1942. During this time be
collaborated with Georg Nicolaus, a Geraan agent, who operated in Mexico and is
now interned in the united States. derukes was arrested by the iexicans in early
1y42 and was, thereafter, repatriated to uermany tarough the United States. in
June, 1942.
Hermkes stated that plans were made for hin to ruturn to exico in 1942,
where he was to contact "latsushita" who is believed to be Ricardo T. Watusita, a
Japanese, who was connected with the Portuguese Legation in Mexico, looking after
Japanese interests. This Japanese was to ut Hermkes in touch with "Colonel
Hishi", alias ick, who was probably Colonel Yoshiaki Nishi, formerly the Japanese
Military Attacne in exico who was repatriated to Japan. Information was recently
received from Tokyo, Japan, that Colonel Nisni was killed in Lalay in 1943 or 19hh.
Matusita was to also ut Herakes in touch w th Benjamin Sutton, alias Lurango.
Sutton is a mited States citizen of poor repute who has spent many
years in lexico and who las been s specteu of veiln a Japanese agent, primarily
because of a trip ne maue to Ja an, allegealy under the auspices of the Japanese
Legation in -exico. it will be noteu that he cenies tnis in tne attacned
statement.
Enclosure
cc Cnief of Naval intelligence
CC
Assistant hief of taff, G-2
Navy Department
ar Department
Washington, L. .
Washington, D. C.
Attention: Frigadier General
C. . Clarke

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
COPY
November 2, 1945
Re: JOHN REDONDO BENJAMIN DOMINIC SUTTON (BRANT),
with aliases: Benjanin Sutton, Colonel Sutton,
General Sutton, "El Gringo de Durango," "Lurango,"
"Don," John Redondo Sutton, Benjamin Redondo Sutton,
Don Sutton, Redondo Don Sutton, Major Redondo Sutton,
J. B. Sutton, Redondo benjanin Sutton, Mr. Redondo,
A. J. Sutton, F. T. Sutton, Lt. Col. Sutton, Don
Redondo utton, B. S. Earzt, Brant, Benjamin Sutton
Brant, Lt. Col. E. Sutton.
MEXICO, D. F.
On October 20, 1945, SUTToN was interviewed at the Office of the United
States Embassy, Mexicc, . F., at which time a voluntary signed statement was taken
from him. This statement is as follows:
"Mexico City
October 20, 1945
"I, JOHN REDONDO BLNJAnLN DOMINIe SUTTON (EnANT), make the following
voluntary statement to ICHAli C. GODFREY, at the United States mbassy, Mexico,
D. F., having been previously advised that this statement is purely voluntary
and that the following statements are the truth to the best of my knowledge and
belief.
"I was born at Los Angeles, California, on rebruary 17, 1890. My parents
were JAmES N. SoTrON and ROSA BiulNT. I was appointed to the United States Military
Academy, "est Point, New York, and graduated therefrom in the class of 1913. I was
thereafter commissioned as Second Lieutenant in the United States Army, having
voluntarily resigned therefrom in 19l6. I again reentered the army in 1917 and
during the war was Adjutant General of Governor's Island, Adjutant General of the
Port of mbarcation in Hoboken, and finally detailed as Adjutant General of the
Thirteenth trigade with the rank of major. 1 was relieved from active duty in
lyl8 and entered private business.
"On November 23, 1922, I was sentenced in the Court of General Sessions
of New York County to a fine of 2500.00 to remain in custody of the Department of
Correction until such fine was paid and transferred to Blackwell Island. I
remained here for the period of six months until such fine was paid, at which time
I was released. I was later given a complete pardon. The case was reviewed by
the Governor, AurhED b. Sii TH, and I was issued a full and complete pardon.
"uy first acquaintance in mexico was during the year of 1919, at which
time I became acquainted with Mexican General ALVARO OBREGON and General PLUTARCO
ELIAS CALLES, to whom I was able to furnish substantial supplies of arms and
-1-

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.97)
ammunition in connection with a revolution egainst the government of President
EMILIANO VENUSTIANO CARPANZA. I wish to state that these arms, though purchased
in the United States, were shipped to Mexico in transit through the Republic of
Cuba and, therefore, the transaction was not in violation of the then existing
neutrality laws. The friendships which I established with these individuals by
reason of the foregoing arrangenents have continued and were the basis of my
future activities in mexico.
"Meanwhile, I was officer in a Iumber of various companies in New York
City, including brokerage rirns an late as an ofi er of a firm retailing
vending machines.
"On February 17, 1929, I was recommissioned as a Lieutenant Colonel in
the United States Army teserve, having previously applied for readmission to the
reserve. In connection therewith, an investigation was made of the previous
sentence which I had received in New York County end by reason thereof, I was
completely exonerated and reinstated in tne inited States Army Reserve.
"I ret rned to mexico to resiae on or about the period of 1936 to 1937,
becoming interested in  ning properties in tne state of Durango, Mexico. It was
also at this time that i made my initial investnents in property in this area.
"I rirst became acquainteo wi th the Japanese Military Attache in Mexico,
Colonel NISHI, at a reception given at the home of the then United States Military
Attache, Major oRDOn McCoY. Subsequent to that time, I knew Colonel NISHI quite
well but purely on a social basis. Colonel liSil, on no occasion, approached me
for the purpose of enlisting ny services in behal? of the Japanese Government;
however, in connection with our conversations on several occasions he intimated
that at some fut re date he would offer me something big.
"in connection with my contact with Colonel iiSil, I likewise, over a
period of vime, met nmerous other indiviauals of Japanese nationality; however,
as in connection with my centact with Colonel HiSHI, these contacts were purely
social in nature. I do not recall the names of these individuals. On one
occasion 1 nad an interview with Dr. Kisso Ts d at his office in Mexico City
in connection with naking a possible mining survey of properties in which he
was interested. However, this proposition did not materialize and this contact
was not pursued. I likewise nad contact with an individnal of Japanese nationality
who, to the best of my knowledge, was a representative on one of the large
Japanese purchasing commissions on behalf of itsui or Mitsubishi; however, I do
not recall this indiviaual's name. The circuastances concerning this contact
were likewise purely social.
"Following the presidential elections in Mexico in 1940 and the feeling
which I had of an impending political revolution, 1 decided tnat I needed a
change of climate. 1 thereafter discussea witn Major MccoY, the United States
Military Attache, ano Captain DILLON, the then United States Naval Attache in
Mexico, and other officials of the American mbassy, a trip which I planned to
the Philippine Islands for the purpose of looking into the possibilities of
obtaining tin. Thereafter, on July 22, 1940, 1 boarded tne Japanese N.Y.K.
-2-

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.98)
liner Heiyo Maru en route to Manila by way of Japan. On this trip I traveled on
Mexican Immigration Form :4--116853, issued on April 18, 1939 (in the quantity
as "Emigrante Eytranjero Temporal"), describing me as BENJALIN S TTON BRANT (the
latter name being the maiden name of my mother), a resident of Canelas, Durango,
exico.
"En route to Japan on this ship, I met and became acquainted with Mr.
AtTHUR DIsT ICH, a German national who had formerly been Press Attache of the
German Legation at Mexico, D. F., and in s ch capacity propaganda chief in that
country, who had been expelled from Mexico for his activities and was en route
to Germany by way of Japan and tussia. Also aboard were otner Gernans from
various parts of Latin America whose names I do not recall.
"Our first port of call in Japan was Yokohama, where I went ashore and
remained for a period of three days while awaiting another ship to Manila. I
boarded at Yokohama the .Y.X. line ship SS "Kamo Maru" on outvoyage #92 en route
to Manila, Philippine Islands. On the passenger list of this vessel I was named
as Lieutenant Colonel L. Sutton. On this trip I became acquainted with United
States Army Major J. W. S. T. wno was en route from the tnited States to return
to his post at Corregidor, Philippine Islands.
"In connection with bhe treatment arforded Major S ITH and myself by the
Japanese a thorities, I wish to state that it was at all times with the highest
suspicion and we were s bjected to various inconveniences to which the remainder
of the passengers were excaoted.
"Upon arrivin, in Manila, Philippine Islands, I applied for and received
admission to the Army and Navy Club as of September 20, 1940. I resided in the
Army and Navy Club at Manila for the major portion of the time I spent in the
islands. I made initial inquiries looking toward the possible investing in and
development of tin in the islands; however, by reason of the then existing
situation, that is, the general expectancy upon the part of the authorities and
civilian population of thc islands of an impending war with Japan, I became dis-
couraged and abandoned the idea of investing at this time. By reason of this
situation and inasmuch as I was not in oossession o1 a United States passport but
only the previously described exican immigration document, I apolied for and
received a temporary Jnited States passport, #1853, issued on January 9, 1941 by
the Office of the Unitea States High Connissioner of the Philippines at Manila,
Prilippine islands.
"While residing in Manila, and in view of the tense situation, I
addressed myself to the headquarters of the Philippine Department offering my
services in the event of an emergency. I received an answer thereto dated
November 19, 1940 acknowledging my offer and stating tnat a record had been
made of my name and adaress, together with my qualirications, which comaunication
was signed by R. T. GARVEh, Captain, Cavalry, A.G.D., Assistant Adjutant General
of the headquarters of the Philippine Department.
"Shortly after receiving my passport, I booked passage aboard the N.Y.K.
line to return to the United States. En route I spent one day at Hong Kong, China,
on January 23, 1941, and 1anded at Osaka, Japan, on January 30, 1941, continuing
to Yokohama by rail. In Yokohama I was forced to remain a period of some two weeks
awaiting passage from this port to the united States. During this period, I
resided at the New Grand Hotel in Yokohama and spent a great deal of my time at
- 3 -

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.98)
the British Club. During this period, I made several trips up to Tokyo for the
purpose of diversion.
"I arrived in the united States at San Francisco on March 6, 1942, at
which time I surrendered my passport and returned immediately to Washington, D. C.
In Washington I resided at the Army and Navy Club and initiated procedure for
reentry into the army. In connection therewith, I discussed this matter with
General DELOS EMMONS, General CLLI TON RUSSELL, General DARGUE, and with my
various class mates of the military academy who were on duty in Washington.
In connection therewi th, I received a physical examination at Walter Reed Hospital,
Washington, D. c., and was passed cn physical qualifications; however, turned
down as being over age. I remained in ashington for some time endeavoring to
have this factor waived in order trat I might reenter the armed services and like-
wise discuss the possibility of assisting in the war effort in a civilian capacity
as an engineer. However, in view of the then existing regulations, this procedure
was found to be impossible and I returned to Mexico.
"Following Pearl Harbor, ! returned to the United States to Washington
in January, 1942, and again endeavored to place myself at the disposition of the
United states Army. I was again turned down by reason of age and after similar
negotiations, again returned to iexico and have not. since returned to the United
States.
"Subsequent to this time, I have, on n umerous occasions, volunteered to
be of service to the Oifice of the ilitery Attache of the inited tates Embassy
in .exico, D. I., in connection with my wide knowledge of conditions in Mexico.
"I wish to state inat on no occasion have 1 been utilized, to my know-
ledge, b the Japanese lovernment in any capacity, or any of the other nations
who are enemies of the nited States, uuring this war. The only possible
explanation wnich 1 can give of my name having been furnished to a German agent
in uernany tor the puroose of ontacting me in .exico is the possibility that such
name naa been furnished throueh Colonel RiSl, the Forner Japanese Military
Attacne in Mexico, who, as  nave previously described, was an acquaintance of
mine through social contact.
"1 do wish to explain, nowever, witn respect to the alias or nickname
"Durango," that 1 nave been known in Mexico by nomerous individuals as the "gringo
from Durango."
"I am attaching hereto various documents wnich are in my oossession
which nave been tirnished voluntarily to r. irReY and which I an initialing as
acknowleogment of their atthenticity, s ch cocwments being furnished for the
purpose of verity ng various statements wnich I am making in the foregoing text.
"I have read the foregoing statement consisting of five full typewritten
pages ana this last paragraph and 1 an signing this doctinent and initialing each
individual page in acknowledgment thereor, and likewise indicating that it is
the truth to the best oi my knowleage and belief.
/s/ senjamin utton"
-4-

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF THE AMERICAN REPUBLICS
September 17, 1942
CR:
Mr. Bonsal states that the
attached personal and confidential
letter to Ambassador Messersmith
should be sent by courier.
RA:PWB: GMB

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.97)
AIR MAIL
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
BY COURIER
Dear Mr. Ambassador:
I have gone into the case of the person desoribed
FN 894,20212
in your letter of September 9. I agree with you that
we should not take this matter up with our Mexiean friends
at this time. However, the agencies in the United States
charged with the national security would be dereliet in
their duty ir they allowed this person to be repatriated.
Those agencies know our position. I expeot that they will
know how to handle the situation.
With cordial regards,
Sincerely yours,
PW3
2
1-1945
The Honorable
George S. Messersmith,
American Ambassador,
México, D. F.
34
RA:PWB:GMB
FC - Mr. Lyon
lev

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
AIR MAIL
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
BY COURIER
Dear Mr. Ambassador:
I have gone into the case of the person described
in your letter of September 9. I agree with you that
we should not take this matter up with our Merican friends
at this time. However, the agencles in the United States
charged with the nati onal security would be dereliot in
their duty if they allowed this persdn to be repatriated.
Those agencies know our position. I expect that they will
know how to handle the situation.
With cordial regards,
Sincerely yours,
W. BonI
The Honorable
George S. Messersmith,
American Ambassador,
México, D. F.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.94)
192440
DCR/C:
Please distribute roprodue
tion conies as tollows
EMBASSY OF THE
Wa (MIS)
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
N1
México, D. F., November 21 1945.
First Priority Pouch
Restricted
Rem
LIAISON OFFICE
.27,311
ubject:
Unión Nacional Sinarquista Accused of Selling
3ARA
Mexioen Deranse Plans to the Japanese.
Intermationn Intor matio:
238
N.
Dlylsion
1946
13c
5
894.2021
20n0
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State,
a-Br/8
Washington, D. C.
sir:
fww
I have the honor to report that the Unión Nacional
Sinarquista has been accused of selling plans of Mexico's
defense system to the Japanese by Deputy Salvador Ochoa
Renteria, president of the Defense Committee of the
Revolution. Clippings from three Mexico City morning
dailies of November 20, 1945, reporting this accusation
2
are herewith enclosed.
45
It is reported that accusations previously launched
against the Sinarquistas of having turned over to Japanese
agents the plans of Mexico's defense system through the
agricultural colony "Maria Auxiliadora" which this group
had established in Baja California have now been confirmed
by members of Mexican Air Squadron 20l, who have stated
that Japanese soldiers had in their possession plans of
the defenses located along the western coast of Mexico.
A formal accusation will be presented to the President,
it is reported, and the dissolution of the Unión Nacional
Sinarquista will be requested by the Defense Committee.
CS/D
While the Unión Nacional Sinarquista protests strongly
that it is not a political party, its attitude in the
forthcoming Presidential elections will be important
×1
because of the size and strength of the organization.
Deputy Salvador Ochoa Renteria, who has presented this
accusation, is a strong leftist leader and is violently
opposed to the Sinarquistas.
Respectfully yours,
For the Chargé d'Affaires, a.
S1946
ywkay
Guy W. Ray
First Secretary of Embassy
Enclosures:
1. From La Prensa of November 20, 1945.
2. From E1 Popular of November 20, 1945.
3. From EI Nacional of November 20, 1945.
In original and hectograph to the Department. FFinne:ff

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 27,311 of November 21, 1945
from the American Embassy, México, D. F.
From: LA PRENSA
Date: November 20, 1945
Published: Mexico City
Nuevamentese
Pide Cierren
las Oficinas
Sinarquistas
Sensacional revelación hizo ayer
el diputado Salvador Ochoa Rente-
ría Presidente del Comité de De-
fensa de la Revolución, en contra
de la Unión Nacional Sinarquista,
agregando que pedirá al señor Pre-
sidente de la República la clausu-
ra de las oficinas de dicha agrupa-
ción, así como su disolución.
En concreto, Ochoa Rentería di-
jo que, según una vieja denuncia
del comité, ahora confirmada, la
creación de la colonia agricola "Ma-
ría Auxiliadora", fundada por los
sinarquistas en la Baja California,
tenía por finalidad indicar a los ja-
poneses la situación de las defen-
sas de México, principalmente las
de la base de Bahía Magdalena.
Agregó Ochoa Rentería que aho-
ra, al regreso de los pilotos mexi-
canos, varios de ellos han confir-
mado que, efectivamente, los japo-
neses contaban con obtener esos in-
formes que les proporcionarían los
sinarquistas de la Baja California,
con la cual queda comprobado el
delito de traición a la patria. Ba-
sándose en él, se pedirà al señor
Presidente la disolución de la UNS,
principiando por la clausura de sus
oficinas.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 27, 311 of November 21, 1945
from the American Embassy, México, D. F.
From: EL POPULAR
Date: November 20, 1945
Published: Mexico City
PIDEN LA CLAUSURA
DE LAS OFNAS. DE LA
UNION SINARQUISTA
El Comité da Defensa de la Revo.
lución Moxicana arnnció aper que
pedirá al Gobierno de la República
la inmedlata clausura de las ofici.
nas de la Unión Nacional Sinarquis.
la y la aprehensión de sus líderes.
por el delito de alta traición a la
Patria.
El Presidente del Comité hará la
acusación, fundándose en las afir.
maciones hechas por algunos de los
miembros del Escuadrón 201, en el
sentido de que soldados japoneses
tenían en su poder planos de las
ccstas occidentales de México, que
seguramente fueron proporcionadaa
al servicio de espionaje Japonés por
los sinarquistas.
En la acusación se hará constar
que la creación de la tristemente fa.
mosa fracasada colonia "María Auxi.
liadora", on la Baja California, tuvo
como fin cstablecer un centro de es.
pionaj? para levantar la situación
de las fortificaciones mexicanas en
Bahia Magdalona y en los puertos
vecinos norteamericanos.
La sensacicnal denuncia será pre.
sentada al Ejecutivo, por conducto do
los organismos respectivos, el día
do mañana.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 27,311 of November 21, 1945
from the American Embassy, México, D. F.
FrOm: EL NABIONAL
Date: November 20, 1945
Published: Mexico City
Seria Acusación
a los Sinarquistas
Se asegura que vendían
planos a los japoneses
Como presidente del Comité d
Defensa de la Revolución de la
Cámara, el diputado Salvador Ochoa
Renteria pedirá al señor Presidente
de la República, según nos dijo, so
ordene la disolución de la Unión
Nacional Sinarquista, porque ha si-
do confirmada la denuncia que el
propio Comité hiciera hace tiempo,
en el sentido de que los fundadores
de la fracasada "Colonia María Au-
xiliadora", de Baja California, esta-
han proporcionando a los japoneses
los planos de las defensas de Mé-
xico.
También intorma el representan-
te Ochoa Rentería que miembros de
Escuadrón 201 le manifestaron que
en poder de las fuerzas japonesa
encontraron los planos de las de-
fensas de Bahía Magdalena y de
ctros puntos estratégicos de Ba
California.
Se considera que es procedante 
clausura de la Unión Nacional 
narquista. por su traición  la p
tria y. consiguientemente, porqo
sus miembros no pueden gosar 
las libertades ciudadanas consaste
das por la Constitución do L Re
'blica.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
894.20212/8-948
Mexico, D.F., August 9, 1948
RESTRICTED
Rec'd
ugust 12
No. 1284
AC TION
Subject: Deportation of Masao Imuro Ota, Japanese Sub-
FC
ject, from Mexico to Japan
INFO
DCR
ARA
EUR
FE
91.148
The Honorable
AUG 110
CD
The Secretary of State
DS
OCD
Washington, D. C.
FC
ARMY
Sir:
NAVY
I have the honor to inform the Department that a
CIA
memorandum has been received from the Mexican Foreign
Office, the purport of which is to request the assistance
of the United States Government in effecting the Deporta-
tion of an undesirable Japanese subject, Masao Imuro Ota
from this country to Japan. The memorandum from the
894.2021
Mexican Foreign Office in translation reads as follows:
"In keeping with the diverse resolutions adopted
in the Second and Third Meetings of Ministers of
Foreign Affairs of the American Republics and es-
pecially of the memorandum annexed to Resolution
XVIIx on the regulation of subversive ectivities,
the Government of Mexico interned certain foreigners
2/8-948
whose activities were dangerous to the country, and
in general, to the efforts exerted by the United
Nations against the Axis Powers.
1947
of Japanese nationality who was interned in Perote
and later at Islas Marias.
"There is a presidential order of July 1, 1942 to
the effect that Article 33 xx of the Constitution be
applied against Imuro Ota. It was not possible to
carry out this order because of the lack of transpor-
tation facilities between Mexico and Japan.
Since/
x "Report on the Third Meeting of the Ministers of Foreign
Affairs of the American Republics". Rio de Janiero Jan.
Confidential
15-18, 1942 (Congres8 and Conference Series No. 36, "At-
tachment to Resolution XVII" p. 46 ff.)
xx
(Translation)
Article 33.
.; but the Executive of the Union
has exclusively the competence to cause all foreigners to
leave Mexican territory immediately without previoua trial,
whose presence is deemed undesirable.
"Constitución Politica Mexicana", Lic. Manuel Andrade, 5th
Edition 1945, page 33.
ile
1948
RESTRICTED
ACTION COPY
RÉTURN TO DO/R FI WITHIN 14 DAYS. WITH A NOTATION OF AOTION TAREN.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
"Since the presence of the foreigner above men-
tioned is deemed not only undesirable but also dan-
gerous to Mexico, it is desired to deport him, tak-
ing advantage of the menas of transportation existing
between the United States of America and Asia. There-
fore it is earnestly requested that the Embassy of the
United States of America be good enough to take up
with the Department of State the possibility of obtain-
ing the collaboration of the American authorities in ef-
fecting the deportation of Mr. Imuro Ota, with the under-
standing that all expenses incurred will be for the ac-
count of the Government of Mexico.
"On previous occasions the Government of Mexico has
facilitated the transit through the Republic to Central
and South America of persons deported from the United
States.--Mexico, D.F., August 6, 1948"
It would be appreciated if the Department would inform
the Embassy what reply may be made to the Mexican Government
with regard to the memorandum quoted above.
Respectfully yours
For the Ambassador
Raymond H. Geist
Counselor of Embassy
RHGeist/jp
CC- Division of Mexican Affairs

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.96)
SEP 919
8-948
CONFIDENTIAL
407
No.
894.20212/8-948
To the
Officer in Charge of the American Mission,
Mexico, D. F.
The Secretary of State refers to the Embasay's despatch
No. 1234, dated August 9, 1948 in regard to the deportation of
Vasao Imuro Ota, a Japanese subject, from Mexico to Japan via
the United States.
The Officer in Charge is informed that the only laws in foree
in the United tates with respect to the transiting of this country
by aliens cover only those cases in which the transit is valuntary.
Where transit is involuntary, it would be possible for the detained
person to obtain his freedom by means of a petition for a writ of
habeas corpus. As such a person would not then be regarded as an
"immigrant" within the meaning of the imrigration laws, it would
not be possible to deport that person from the United States.
The Embassy should appropriately inform the Mexican Foreign
Office that in view of past legal difficulties incurred in cases
C
of enemy aliens being brought into the United states for deporta-
S
tion to another country, wherein the Circuit Courts of Appeals have
A/
ruled that an alien cannot be legally deported to another country
from the United States if he has been brought into this country
against his will, the Department regrets that it is unable to asaist
the Government of Mexico in effecting the deportation of Mr. Imuro
Ota through the United States to Japan.
For the information of the Embassy the foregoing Cirouit
Court cases refer to (1) United States ex rel. Bredley vs Watkins
of July 23, 1947: (2) United States ex rel. Ludwig vs Watkins of
November 26, 1947; and (3) Uni ted States ex rel. Paetau vs Watkins
of November 26, 1947.
CR
SEP
9
NA
CON: FC:HHGosho:rsh
gouu
SD
CONFIDENTIAL
8-23/9-1-48

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
FW 894.20212/8-948
CONFIDENTIAL
August 30, 1948
220212/8-744
TO:
FC - Mr. Gosho
FROM: L/M - Mr. Diven
87
In view of the statement in the memorandum from the
Mexican Foreign Office quoted in the attached despatch
No. 1284 dated August 9, 1948 from the Embassy at Mexico
City to the effect that on previous occasions the Govern-
ment of Mexico has facilitated the transit through the
Republic to Central and South America of persons deported
from the United States, I hesitate somewhat to initial
the attached instruction in its present form.
It seems to me that for a second paragraph in the
7
instruction it should be explained that the only laws in
force in the United States with respect to the transiting
of this country by aliens covers only those cases where
the transit is voluntary. Where the transit is involuntary,
it would be possible for the detained person to obtain his
freedom by means of a petition for a writ of habeas corpus.
As such a person would not then be regarded as an "immigrant"
within the meaning of the immigration laws, it would not be
C
possible to deport that person from the United States. The
S
third and fourth paragraphs could remain as you have drafted
them.
A
CORRELATION
Fn
Attachments.
AUG 31 1948
89
tcfils
C
confidential
2
02/2
L:L/M:FMDiven:fje
1949

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.97)
United States ex rel. Paetau v. Watkins, No.90, Dooket 20785
Gircuit Court of Xppeals, Second Girouit.
Nov. 26, 1947
1. Aliens
An alien seized by the Us elsewhere, and brought to the
Us against his will for internment for security reasons as an
alien enemy, cannot be deported as an "immigrant", at least not
before he has been afforded an opportunity to depart voluntarily
and such restriction is not limited in application to prisoners
of war. Immigrant Act 1917 section 18, 19, 8 USCA section 154,
155.
?. Habeas Corpus
Where hearing on return to writ of habeas corpus was
heard by justice of DC sitting Southern~District of NY by designatn
and justices first ruling was to order warrant of deportation amend-
ed, justice thereafter had power to grant motion for reaeguement
throught though his designation had then expired.
3. Al1ens
Alledged alien, who was odered deported to Germany by
Guatemalan authorities and placed on an airplane bound for the
US and who was taken into custody by 1mmigtation officials upon
his arrival in the US. was not deoortable to Germany by the Us as
an "immigrant" who has made an illegal entry.
Where alledged alien was ordered deported to Germany by
Guatelmaaan authorities and place on an airpoane bound for the Us
and alien was taken into custody upon his arrival by immigration
officials, alien's entry did not become "voluntary" because, after
being informed that no arrangements had been made to permit him
to pass through the US, he anplied for admission to the Us.
5. Habeas corpus
District court had authority, under Supremen Court
rule, pending alien's anpeal from an orde dismissing writ of
habeas corpus and remanding him to custody of Director of Immig-
ration gor deportation, to admit him to bail.
US

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.98)
Us ex rel. Ludwig v. Watkins
No 89 Dooket 20784
Strcuit Ssurt of appeals, Sednd Gircuit
Nove 26,1947
1. Al1ens
An al ien brought ta the Us against his will by agents of
the Us is not an "immigrant" within the immigration laws.
Enemy alien, who was brought to the Us from Nicaragua under
armed guard in 1942, was not deportable as an "1mmigrant" not in
pocession of an immigration visa, but was removable only as an
enemy alien and as such had right of voluntary departure, and only
after his refusal or neglect to leave coutd the gov't deport him.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.97)
Sy - Sew.
FANDARD FORM NO. 64
CON - Mr. Mokma
DATE: August 24, 1948
TO
MA - Mr. Reveley
FROM :
Deportation of Masao Imuro Ota, Japanese Subject,
SUBJECT:
from Mexico to Japan
894.20212/8-948
Attached is a copy of a despatch, no. 1284, August 9,
from Mexico City, and a letter from the Counselor, on the
same subject, both connected with the desire of the Mexican
Government to deport to Japan a Japanese subject by the
name of Masao Imuro Ota.
The action copy of this despatch went to one of the
y
Divisions in CON, probably FC. It would be appreciated if
you wouid ascertain the present status of the matter and
let me know so that I can reply to Geist.
68
During the war the Mexican Government cooperated fully
in effecting transit through Mexico of Germans deported
from the United States who were not subject to internment
but whom we sent to join relatives in Central and South
20212
America. It is therefore hoped we can do everything pos-
sible to expedite the deportation of Ota, including
facilitating the ocean transportation. It is noted that
all expenses incurred will be for the account of the
Government of Mexico.
948
Jf haay.
Raul J. Reveley
cc: Mr. Geist, Embassy, Mexico City.
ARA:MA: PJR: DC

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.86)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
DIVISION OF
MEXICAN AFFAIRS
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AUG 23 1948
American mbassy
mexico, D.F.
august 16, 1948
Dear Jeff:
1
n a ustth te Perwereer a estricted bespatch
Lo. 1284 untitled "beoestatien of  sseo 1 uro Cta,
Jepanese sn j-et, from eies to Ja an", a co y of which
sas sent to the exican bivision.
Por some let on or lr sc s Savito is very
anxious to ksve this mr ttel uape ited cnd leruested
that I co evelyt in: sossitle tu hally up the Depart-
F 894.
'ent' ecj. ion. i lerluiner, oft eoulee, from cetting
exeiter soout tir  tadn  mrt or enery on the part
of sátele svito cns vsmed cim wether or not seaor Imulo
ta  ettit d elou mo vicnoe caiu, "Io, wut for
so e reeson sr potr te antccn covernment is ennious
toet ii"
If there i eny thims you en do to eapedite the
decision is te att 1, plesse co so.
20
rith sest leuelds.
2
-incerely yours
12
aydond . Seist
Jour gelor ot Babassy
all J. Mevaley, sruire
Chief. Divivion of. eniear xffair.
wepalt ent of state
Testington,.

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.86)
TANDA
DATE: March 8, 1949
Io : MA-hud- Huighes
FROM : IAD- Gmuillink
swascr: hote from merican Sntesy emcerming
Masas Imuro OTA.
attached is a rote fin the mepician
onbassey, thich I had thanated. Ipree
you will wish to da dle it.
attached:
hote
1949

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF LANGUAGE SERVICES
(TRANSLATION)
TC NO.
7099
T-17/R-1
Spanish.
/Embassy of Mexico/
The Ambassador of Mexico presents his
oke
compliments to His Excellency the Secretary
of State and takes the liberty of referring
to his note no. 308 of January 25 1ast, to
inform him that Masao Imuro Ota, a Japanese
subject, has signed a declaration before the
Mexican authorities stating his willingness
to leave Mexico for his own country by way
of the United States.
The said Masao Imuro Ota has made a special
declaration to the effect that in passing through
United States territory has will not exercise
any right or recourse that might delay his trip
to Japan or for the purpose of remaining in the
United States of America, having stated, moreover,
that he is ready to confirm the said decTara ions
before the United States authorities if qured
to do so.
In repeating to His Excellency the Secretary
of State the request for cooperation which the
Mexican Government has presented for his consideration
in this regard, the Ambassador of Mexico desires
to stress the fact that the Department of
Gobernayción has a special interest in promoting
the

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.97)
-2 -
the repatriation of a person who has been detaihed
for seven years, fundamentally because of the fact
that during wartime he expressed his intention to
make an attempt on the life of the Chief Executive
of the United States of America.
Washington, D. C., February 11, 1949.

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.93)
747
ACTION
is assigned to
MAUL
El Embajador de México saluda muy atentamente al
Excelentfsimo señor Secretario de Estado y se permite hacer
referencia a su nota mímero 308, de 25 de enero último, para
manifestarle que el súbdito japonés Masao Imuro Ota ha firmado
una declaración ante las autoridades mexicanas, en la que hace
constar su conformidad en salir de México con destino a su pafs
por vía de los Estados Unidos.
El citado señor Masao Imuro Ota ha hecho especial
894.20212/2-1149
ρ
declaración en el sentido de que a su paso por territorio
ANO
norteamericano no ejercerá ningún derecho o recurso que pudiera
4914
R
dar por resultado el retraso de su viaje al Japón o con la mira
Cx
de permanecer en los Estados Unidos de América, habiendo
expresado, además, estar dispuesto a ratificar dichas declaraciones
CS/J
ante las autoridades norteamericanas si asf se le requiere.
Al reiterar al Excelentfsimo señor Secretario de
Estado la petición de colaboración que al respecto ha elevado
a su consideración el Gobierno Maxicano, el Embajador de México
desea...
BmBuyan
RECEIVED
FEB 281949
10943
To to for translatin
syu
5AD/crmen 2/28/49
STATE

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.93)
747
一2 
desea hacer hincapié en el hecho de que la Secretarfa de
Gobernaciôn tiene especial interês en el asunto por tratarse
de la repatriaeiôn de una persona que ha estado detenida durante
siete años, fundamentalmente por haber expresado durante tiempos
de guerra su intención de atentar contra la vida del Primer
Mandatario de los Estados Unidos de América.
Nashington, D. C., a 11 de febrero de 1949.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.93)
Departmentof
Washington,
MPE
3876
3876
U.S. POLAD,
TOKYO.
1.-46, Mer. 30, 1949
y小
Mex Government hae requested U.S. assistance in con-
neotion yath deportation from Mexico to Japan of Masme
x12
Imuro Ota, native of Japan who has been interned since the
early days of the war. Immigration and Naturalizatien
Servloe has agreed to authorize alione parole inte the
U.S. for purpose of passing in transit to Japan under
894.20212/2
following conditions: arrangements for travel to be made
and expenses in oonneotion therowith te be paid by Mex
Government; Mex Government will provide this Government
with guarantee signed by alien that his passage through
North American territory ie entirely voluntary; and Mex
Government will agree to permit the alien's reentry into
Mex if his transit journey to Japan is not completed fer
any reason.
Please advise whether authorities will admit alion
into Japan. If acoeptable inrormation regarding date
万
and method of travel will be forwarded when known.
49
DISIRIBUTION
DESIRED
OFFICES ONLY)
RESTRICTED
CS/H
e8
NA
CR CLEARANCE
ARA:MA:Rhhughes:1ab
3/25/49
BAR BO 

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
DO NOT D
DETACH
THIS FORM
FILE NO.
RECORD COPY
894.20212/4-949
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A  DESPATCH
TELEGRAMAIRGRAM
HAS BEEN DESIGNATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGIMAL
TOKYO
ACTION COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS BY
THE ACTION OFFICE.
TEL.
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
3
M
M-184
11-9-48

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.96)
INCOMING TELEGRAM
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
4
1949 APR 11 AM 9 33
Action: ARA
RESTRICTED
Info
FE
DC/R
OLI
RECORDS BRANCH
CIA
Control 3397
DS
DCR
Rec'd Apr1l 9, 1949
6:33 a.m.
FROM:
Tokyo
TO:
Secretary of State
NO:
113, Apr11 9
912.111
REDEPTS A-46, March 30.
xK
No objoction entry Jipan of Masao Imuro Ota as Jipanese
national repatriate. Evidence of Japanese nationality
800,5594
should be presented at port of entry.
894.
SEBALD
FPM:ME
20212
6
DCR
 NE Unit
01s1
RESTRICTED
INFORMATION COPY
