894.76 Wireless Telephone. Broadcasting. Divided As 8**.73., October 24, 1940 - July 12, 1943 (File 1392), part 3 of 3
ID: 894.76-1392-3   Pages: 490   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.76-wireless-telephone-broadcasting-6/894.76%20Wireless%20Telephone.%20Broadcasting.%20Divided%20As%208%2A%2A.73.%2C%20October%2024%2C%201940%20-%20July%2012%2C%201943%201392-part-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.99)
etary of Navy Knox yesterday stated that he has ordered the
rican Navy to begin armed escort of American merchant ships in
ertain specified waters from September 16. Hence, the American
Navy is actually going to carry out President Roosevelt's policy,
which was mentioned in the September 1l talk. The gist of Secretary
of Navy Knox's talk was as follows: "The American Navy will start
protecting with arms all vessels sailing in the neighboring waters
from America to Iceland with lend-lease materials. Besides, Ameri-
can warships have been ordered to capture and destroy all Axis sub-
marines and warships found in these waters."
According to a dis patah from Washington, President
Roosevelt yesterday reported to Congress the state of the lend-lease
transactions for the first half of this fiscal year. According to
it, the nation receiving the greatest benefit from the lend-lease
act was England. Ever since the outbreak of the war, she has re-
ceived 4,400,000,000 worth of war material: from America. He, also,
reported on America's aid to Chungking, but refused to make public
the figures for certain reasons.
The legislative body of Argentine, yesterday, adopted
a resolution to rcquest the government to expel the German ambassador
to Argentine from Argentine.
According to an AP dispatch from Cairo yesterday, the
allied mechanized troops of Italy and Germany invaded Egyptian
territory yesterday and clashed against the British troops.
According to a dispatch reaching Rome, the natives
along the border of Iran and Iraq reportedly have started a rebellion
and have already captured Hamadan, Kachia, Buristan and other places
(Names of places all phonetic). The reason for their rebellion is
believed to be anti-British.
The Nanking government today announced the appointments
of ministers to Spain and Rumania.
According to a report reaching Nanking, England,
America and Russia reportedly has rejected Chungking's request for
representation at the Moscow conference, which will be held shortly.
According to a report reaching Nanking, land slides
have occurred at about two hundred places along the Burma route in
Yunnan Province, thus completely stonping the flow of traffic to
Chungking.
Comment on current cvents:
Topic "The present condition of Manchoukuo":
The talk was of the usual lwngth and pertained to the progress made
by Manchoukuo. It mentioned how Manchoukuo was formed and the part
played by Japan in its formation. It termed the Manchurian incident
as the first step toward the destruction of the European and American
capitalistic oppression and the creation of a new order in East Asia.
It ended with the statement that the progress of Manchoukuo is an
evidence of what Japan's real motive in East Asia is.
European music.
-2-

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
Talk on the life of women in Japan by Eiko Fujikawa, an
tist: The talk was of alout ten minutes and pertained to the
hational services being rendered today by the women, youn and old,
of Japan. She, also, mentioned how simply the women of Japan are
dressing and advocated the adoption of a more practical dress,
differing greatly from the kimono, for daily use. In other words,
she tried to picture the condition in Japan through the kind of
kimonos worn by thc women of Japan, today.
Theme song.
Notification of change of time schedule:
4:30 - 4:40 News in Japanese
4:40 - 4:50 Comment on current events
4:50 - 4:58 Domestic news or music
1:50 Every Saturday Children's news hour.
(Abovo times all P.M.)
Other hours in which news, comment on current events,
music and other matters will be broadcast to you are:
1:50 - 2:30 A.M.
5:00 - 5:30"
8:50 - 10:00 "
1:20 - 2:30 P.M.
5:55 - 7:00 "
(Broadcast to the war front)
9:00 0 9:30 "
(The above change of time shhedule to t aku place from
September 24.)
Tomorrow's program
Japanese national anthem.
-3-

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
Aion JZK Program
te 9/28/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles
News:
Japanese troops, operating in Hunan, finally captured
Changsha yesterday. Today, furious mopping up operations are being
carried on in and around Chengsha. In a statement pertaining to this
operation, Chief of Staff Ishiroku, who returned to Nenking today,
stated that the army is determined to carry on its activities as long
as Chiang Kai-shek does not reconsider.
In commemoration of the first annivcrsery of the tri-
partite pact, Japanese Ambassador to Germany Oshima and Japanese
Ambassador to Italy Horikiri both made a five minutes broadcast from
Berlin and Rome, respectively. Explaining the noble ideal 3f the
tripartite alliance nd describing the division of the world into the
status quo bloc and the new order bloc, Ambassador Oshima emphasized
the peace loving characteristic of the Japanese and ccncluded his
talk with the stetement that Jepan, firmly believing that real peace
is nl. poreible tir uh th.  tiblishe.cnt of . no. order, is
determined to accomplish her aim. On the other hand, Ambassador
Horikiri stated that Japan, Italy and Germany, today, are acting in
concert in the East and the West through the tripartite agreement and
explsined that in spite of the numerous obstacles lying in the path
of the tripartite alliance, Japan, Italy and Germany will overcome
these obstacles through their friendly feeling and mutuel confidence.
Okinori Kaya, president of the North China Development
Company, arrived in Moji vesterday and stated that the production of
important products is going along smoothly in North China, besides
emphasizing the necessity for the development of the mining industry
and the perfection of the transportation facilities.
A Japanese vessel, carrying 420 Japanese evacuees from
the Dutch East Indies, arrived in Kobe this morning. In regard to the
condition in the Dutch East Indies, they stated as follows: There are
still about 4, 500 Japanese in the principal places of Dutch East
Indies, but the Dutch East Indies authorities are doing everything
possible to compel these Japanese to return to Japan. Under such
conditions, it has become absolutely impossible for Japanese to
remain in business in the Dutch East Indies, for Japanese are being
excluded from ell sorts of business. Hence, the Dutch East Indies
has become the hardest place for the Japanose to live in the world.
The largest military operation in tho history of the
world has been concluded by the German troops operating in the region
east of Kiev. The number of Russiens captured in this operation was
665,o00, while the number of Russians wounded is estimated to be about
605,000. As a result, the numbcr of Russians captured since the
beginning of the war has risen to 2, 500,000, bringing the total number
of losses, including the wounded, to over 5,000,000.
According to a dispatch from Berlin, a spokesman of
the German government stated that German operations against the
Russians will be continued throughout the Winter.
-1-

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
According to a dispatch from Washington, Secretary of
Navy Knox, for the first time, has made known America's three
efense zones in an article published in the Department of Commerce's
Foreign Commerce Weekly. The first of these is the North Atlantic
route to Europe, the second is the southern route to both the Atlantic
and the Pacific coast of South America and the third is the Pan-
Pacific route to Australia, the Dutch East Indies and India. At the
same time, he emphasized the necessity for the nullification of the
neutrality law.
The ineffectiveness of the three rowers conference is
being reported in various forms by the reports from Moscow, London
and New York. According to the report from Moscow, En land and Amer-
ica has no intention to really aid Soviet Russia, but only wants
Russia to continue her fight against Germany to delay Germany's
attack against Britain. On the othor hand, reports from England and
America claim that Russia is making it difficuit for England and
America to aid her because of her refusal to furnish informetions in
regard to her domestic conditions.
Electrical transcription of Director of Information
Bureau Ito's broadcast ofer JOAK on September 26 in regard to the
tripartite agreement: (Electrical transcription very poor.) In
this talk, Director Ito (?) emphasized Japan's unshakable determina-
tion in regard to the tripartite alliance. He explained the signi-
ficance of this alliance as preventing the outbreak of world confu-
sion and establishing an era of world peace. Ho emphatically stated
that no matter how the situation may change, Japan's Axis diplomacy
will never be altered, and that Japan will fight against the attempts
of the third powers to estrange her from this Axis to the very end.
Japanese music.
Japanese national anthem.
-2

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
tion JZK Program
te 9/29/41
requency 15,160 Kilocycles
News:
The Japanese troops operating in Hunan today captured
Shoshu (Hengchow?), an important railroad terminal. Besides, the
Japanese air force raided Koryo, south of Changsha, and caused consi-
derable damages to the military establishments and facilities there.
On the other hand, the Japanese naval air force yesterday raided
Shokan and Shokai in Canton Province.
According to a communique issued today, the Japanese
air force vesterday raided Chungking, Ryozan, Shiko and Onshi.
In return forthe luncheon sponsored by Foreign Minister
Toyoda yesterday in commemoration of the first anniversary of the
tripartite alliance, tho Italian and German embassies jointly spon-
sored a luncheon today at the Impcrial Hotel. About 3oo dignitaries
were present.
As a war preparation measure, the Ministry of Forestry
and Agriculture has completed the drafting of the regulations to in-
crease the production of agricultural and marine products. The
regulations will be presented to the cabinet shortly for approval.
Following the completion of the German troops' campaign
in the region east of Kiev, it was announced that German troops imme-
diately undertook a new movd. This move is believed to be a pincer
attach on Moscow. Hence, it is believed that a decisive blow will be
struck against Russia by Germany within the coming month.
According to a dispatch from Moscow, the representa-
tives to the three powers conference in Moscow arrived in Moscow on
September 28 and immediately called on Stalin. Hence, the three
powers conference can be thought to have actually started.
According to an announcement made by the British Air
Ministry, a great air duel took place on September 27 over the German
occupied territory in France. In this air duel, the British planes
reportedly shot down 24 German planes, while losing only 13.
According to a communique issued by the German High
Command, yesterday, German submarines during the past several days sank
12 merchant ships, totalling 67,000 tons, heading from Gibralter to
England. On the other hand, 12,00o0 ton tanker reportedly was sunk in
the waters of Southern Atlantic.
According to & di spatch from Washington, Sen. La Fol-
lette voiced a strong opinion against any change to be made in the
neutrality law, but President Roosevelt reportedly will confer with
party leaders today to draw up a bill nullifying the neutrality.
News of the past week:
News of the capture of Changsha on September 28 and
the achievements of the Japanese troops.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
News of the first anniversary of the tripartite
Feement, which was concluded on September 27 of last year, and Direc-
or of Information Bureau Ito's broadcast on the eve of the anniver-
sary.
News of the granting of regards to the veterans of
the current war.
News of the measures adopted by the cabinet on Septem-
ber 25 to strengthan Japan's food situation in this emergency.
News of the national support's youths organizations
being aligned with the Reservists' organization by the National Support
Society.(Not clear.)
News of the Public Health Ministry's decision to
reward service personnel's families with over ten children.
News of the national athletic meet held at Meiji
Jingu.
European music.
Japanese music.
Weather report of Tokyo.
Japanese netional anthem.
-2-

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
on JZK Program
9/30/41
quency 15,160 Kilocycles
News: (Record very poor)
Something about a certain Chinese commander being
assassinated by his troops while at the front.
Something about a Chinese plane surrendering to the
Japanese.
Something about the Japm ese troops operation in Hunan.
Something about the granting of rewards to the
veterans of the current war.
(Rocord died down into the noise)
News of the Russo-German war. (Practically inaudible.)
Something about Italian planes attacking British
warships in the Mediterranean Sea.
(Nothing audible)
Something about the three powers conference at Moscow.
Comment on current events:
Topic not audible. Talk appcared to be about the
Japm ese troops' Hunan operation. Record very poor. Impossible to
translate.
Japanese music.
Tomorrow's program.
Japanese national anthem.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
tion JZK Program
te 10/5/41
requency 15,160 Kilocycles
(Recorder's note: This series of records very noisy.)
Story of Masamune Date, a Japanese warrior of old. (Record
very poor.)
Japanese music.
News: (Record very bad)
Something about Japanese troops' operation in Huna.
(Record pratcially inaudible.)
Something about condition in Chungking.
Something of substitute for aviation oil (?) dis-
covered by a professor of Tokyo Bunrika University.
Something about America increasing her aid to Chung-
king. Arrival of several more American advisors in Chungking was men-
tioned.
Something about Chungking's representative in Saigon
fleecing the Chinese immigrants of their savings.
Something about the British warship Nelson, which was
attacked by Italian planes, in Gibralter.
Something about Bulgaria being prepared to oppose any
attack by Russla.
Something about a trede agreement being concluded
between two nations (Names indistinct)
Something about Darlan making a tour of inspection of
the French Coast along the English Channel.
Something about Turkcy's representatives in Moscow and
London returning home shortly to make some sort of report.
Something about the sentiment in America seriously
opposing President Roosevelt's proporal to nullify the neutrality law.
Comment on current events:
Topic "Effect of Changsha operation on Chungking":
The talk, as usual, was propaganda of the Japanese troops' operation
in Hunan and the strength of the Japanese troops. It propagandized
that the sentiment for peace is becoming stronger among the people of
Chungking.
Japanese music.
Japanese national enthem.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
n JZK Program
10/6/41
quency 15,160 Kilocycles
News: (Condition poor)
Achievments of the Japanese troops operating in Centon
Province -- 6,290 enemy troops killed, 680 captured, and 2,500 rifles
and 141,687 rounds of ammun1tion taken.
Something about an escapee from Chungking to Shanghai
stating that the people are coming to realize that their enomy is not
Japan, but England and are looking forward to the restoration of
peace.
Something about the conference between British and
American Far Eastern authorities held at Manila and the matters dis-
cussed.
Russo-German war news interfered by static. German
troops reportedly are unleashing a fierce attack on Leningrad. Another
news reported the shooting down of 37 Russian planes by the German
air force.
Something about the British warship Nelson, which was
attacked by Italian planes.
Something about two unidentified ships off Brazil. In
regard to this, the Department of State and the Department of Navy of
America claimed that they have received no information.
Something about the three powers conference and
England and America's promise to send some sort of aid to Russia.
Something about Chungking's representing fleecing the
Chinese immigrants of Saigon.
News of the past weck: (Record poor)
News of the Japanese troops operations in China.
(Took up practically the whole record).
News of the estgblishment of the National Thanksgiving
Week in honor of those who had given their life for their country, in
this current incident.
News of the granting of rewerds to those who had ren-
dered distinguished services in this incident.
News of the prosonting of credentials by a represente-
tive of a certain nation.
News of the change of Chinese ambassador to Japan.
(Several news were wholly inaudible.)
Japanese music.
Japanese national anthem

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
on JZK Program
10/7/41
quency 15,160 Kilocycles
Japanese music
Newsz (Record poor)
Something about a Chinese commander named Eirikko
issuint an order to the third Chinese division (?) to stop the west-
ward advance of the Japanese troops from Teishu in Honen Province at
all cost, but his order having no effect since the Chinese troops
have lost their fighting spirit. Another report nentioned that these
Chinese troops in the neighborhood of Teishu are being attacked by
Japanese planes.
Something about the Chungking regime belittling the
capture of Teishu by the Japenese troops yesterday as a city that had
been abandoned by the Chinese troops for the past three years.
Something about Japanese troops closing upon the
Chinese Red Army from all sides at a certain place along the Taitung
Range in Shansi Province. (Record very bad)
Something about Prof. Handa, who returned to Kobe
Jesterday from his inspection tour of North China and Mongolia,
stating that the future ot cotton production in North China is very
promising.
Something about a plan to build a great canal about
390 kilometers long in North China. Sounded as if the plan is to
build the canal along the Teikan (?) railway line. Project is to be
started next year and to be completed in two years.
Something about the actual demarcation of the border
line between French Indo-China and Thailand to be undertaken from
October 15.
Something about the Vichy government creating a new
foreign affairs post in French Indo-Chine and appointing its represen-
tative in Sen Francisco to that new post.
Something about a conforence held between represanta-
tives of England andiAmerica somewhere in the South Seas (?)/o
strengthen the encirclement against Japan. (Record very poor)
Something about the German troops starting a drive
against Moscow from the north, the south end the west. The German
air force reportedly have attacked Kalinin and Orel.
Something about an Italian cormuniqae issued vesterday
stating that the Ark Royal, 22,000 tons British aircraft carrier, was
seriously damaged on September 21 and is presently in Gibralter for
repairs. Judging from this report, it appeared as the British navy,
with such ships as the HMs Nelson and Ark Royal, attempted to anni-
 Probably is the one held at Manilf

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
Something about an Italian communique issued yes
te the Italian nav, but was defeated instead by Italian submer-
s and air planes.
Something about a disp: tch from Stockholm, stating the
shortage of food-stuffs in Moscow and the rising sentiment of the
people against the Russian government because of it.
Something about a dispatch fron Kabul, Afghanistan,
stating that England and Soviet Russia have issued a joint demand for
the expulsion of the Germans and Italians in Afghanistan. The text of
the demand reportedly is the same as that which was presented to the
Iranian government. Afghanistan reportedly is presently seriously
considering the Joint demend of England and Soviet Russia.
Something about the Panamanian government issuing an
order forbidding the arming of merchant ships under its flag.
Comment on current eventy:
Topic "The Intornational Situation": (Condensed)
Japan, end Germany and Italy are like the two whecls of a car. If one
should break down, the other inevitably is affected. In this respect,
the situation in Europe affects Asia and vice-versa, and anything that
may seem to have nothing to do with Japan actually has a deep connec-
tion. This line of thought is applicable to the Moscow conference,
which was held from September 29 to October 1. Although the result of
the conference has not been made imown, it seems as if En lnnd and
Zmerica have promised to meet every demand of Soviet Russia in return
for the supplying of the neccssary raw materials to England and
America by Soviet Russia. In regard to its possibility of accomplish-
ment, it is believed to be impossible in view of the difference of
ideoloy, the lack of tr nsportation facilitatics and the condition
of England, herself. The reason Japan is greatly concerned of this
conference is because matters pertaining to Japan and the use of
Vladivostok as one of the ports of entry were undoubtedly discussed.
Thon, too, explaininy the futility of England and America's aid to
Soviet Russia, Chancellor Hitler, some tine ago, made a broadcast to
the effect that the war against Sovict Russia must be accomplished in
order to accomplish the war against England and thst Soviet Russia
mast be defeated because Bolshevism is an enemy of Nazism. Thus did
he refutc the runor of the possibility of an indcpendent peace between
Germany and Soviet Russia. Furthermore, he revealed the achievements
of the German troops since the beginning of the war, as follows: --
2,500,000 Russian troops captured, 22,000 guns taken, 18,000 tanks
captured and 14, 500 planes dostroyed. This broadcast of Hitler is
intercsting because the Hunan campaign, which has dealt a great blow
upon Chungking, was accomplished at about the same time. By these
facts, it is obvious asto which sido will cein the ultimate victory in
the east and the west. Hence, the attempt of England and Americe to
strengthen the ABCD encirclement is of greatest concern to our country,
because it is an attempt to hamper the accomplishment of the incident
and the creation of a mutual prosperity sphere in East Asia. A meet-
ing reportedly was held for a three day period, starting from October
3 and ending on October 5, at Manila between General McArthur (?),
commander of the merican troops in the Philippines, and Sir Brookes
Popham (?). commander of the British troops in East Asia. It was
also attended by representetives from Burma and ustralia and by the
-2-

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
n and British advisors to Chungking. The purpose of this con-
le can easily be seen, for it was nothing other than to streng-
the aid to Chungking and the BCD encirclement. What should
especially worthy of interest, at this time, is the fact that many
herican advisors, lately, have been sent to Chungking (Named some of
chem -- Lattimore, Clement, Hopes (?), etc.). No matter how they may
try, no power will be able to stop the creation of the East Asia
mutual prosperity sphere, for it is Japan 's highest ideal.
Domestic news: (Record very poor)
News was from Osaka, Hyogo, Kyoto and Shiga Prefec-
tures. The only item of interest was the establishment of aviation
training field in Hyogo prefecture for the training of ouths in
aviation tactics, such as pdloting lidcrs and air planes.
Japanese national onthem.
-3-

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
on JZK Program
10/8/41
quency 15,160 Kilocycles
News:
In. spite of the sincere effort made by Japan ever since
Konoye's message to President Roosevelt on August 28 to peacefully
settle the Pacific problems, the anti-Japenese encirclement of South-
western Pacific has been strengthened all the more. Our country is
carrying out her national policy, based on the settlement of the in-
cident, the creation of a mutual prosperity sphere in East sia and
the observance of the tripartite lliance, for the preservation of
peace on the Pacific, and it is only proper that both imerica and
Japan should undertake their negotiation with a reciprocal spirit. If
America should be so obstinate as to make no attempt to understand our
noble ideal, the relation between Japan and America will inevitably
revert to the stage it was prior to Konoye's message and America
should wholly be responsible for it, thus stated the Nichi-Nichi Shim-
bun and the Yomiuri Shimbun of October 6. Bo that as it may, Japan
will calmly watch the developments with a firm determination and
attitude.
ccording to a dispatch from Hongkong, an Anglo-Ameri-
can-Sino economic conference has been started from October 6. The
purpose of the conference reportedly is to strengthen the economy of
Chungking through England and merica's aid. However, much expecta-
tion reportedly cannot be placed on the conference, in view of the
great difference in the posi tions of England, imerica and Chungking.
To Chungking, Shanghai is no longer of any use. To America, Shanghai
is of no great importamce to her because her small interests there.
As for England, she would not only lose her interest in Central China,
but throughout East Asia, were she to lose Shanghai. Therefore, it is
believed that it would be difficult for the three nations with such
differences to arrive at an agreement. Instead, it will result in
England folding up her flag and withdrawing fron East Asie.
America's military mission reportedly is expected to
arrive in Chungking shortly and according to  dispatch from Shanghai,
Chungking is making every preparation to please the mission. For
example, Kakutaiki, head of the foreign affairs office of Chungking,
issued the following statement on October 6: "We have no body to
depend upon but England and aerica and only through their aid can we
of Chungking act the advance-guards of the democracles."
According to a dispatch from Shanghai, the Chungking
government had planned to carry out its lutumn campaign some time
during the early part of this month, but has been foreed to postpone
the said campaign to next er in view of the Japanese troops drive
against Changsha and Teishu. . military conference to discuss this
compaign was also scheduled to be held, but has been postponed.
According to a dispatch from Hankow, Chiang Kai-shck,
greatly perturbed by the defeat of the Chinese troops in the Hunan
operation, has ordered the Chinese troops of t he 5th and 6th defense
area to recapture the strategic places in Hupeh Province. However,
-1-

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
Chinese troops are being repulsed with heavy losses by the
mese troops.
According to a dispatch from Berlin, the success of
the Japanese troops' operation against Changsha, Teishu and other stra-
tegic points of the Chinese troops has greatly impressed the military
experts of Germany. Even the newspapers of Berlin are commenting upon
the reports received from their reporters along the war fronts of
China.
According to a dispatch from Nanking, the Nanking
government has decided to establish a commercial affairs agency at
Haiphong and Saigon. This is worthy of note in view of the fact that
the freezing of Japanese asscts by England and America is necessi-
tating the creation of a en bloc.
According to a report reaching Taiyuan, the clash
between Chungking and the Chinese Red Army is becoming more serious,
of late. Chungking officals in Shensi Province reportedly have
formed a new army and is desperately trying to drive out the Chinese
Red Army from that area. On the other hand, the Chinese Red Army is
sending forth agents to destroy the new army fron the inside. Scores
of these agents reportedly have been captured and killed by the Chung-
king officials.
∴ccording to reports received from Berlin, London,
and other places, G rmany reportedly has concentrated about 3,000,000
troops along a 50o kilometer front sterting from the southern end of
Lake Ilmen to Bessrabu (phonetic) and has started a great drive
against Moscow. The German troons reportedly have already captured
Kalinin and Orel. Besides, according to an unofficial announcement
made by the German government, over 1,O00,O00 Russians have been cap-
tured in the campaign north of Kiev. Furthermore, the German troops
operating along the shore of the Sea of Azov reportedly have captured
Mariupol and Berdyansk.
According to an announcement made by the British
Finance Ministry on October 7, Britain's war expenditure for the first
four days of the latter half of this fiscal year is 65, 922, 891 pounds,
which is a new record. Hence, the total debt for this fiscal year to
date is 1,539,621,030 pounds.
Comment on current events:
Topic: "Significance of the three great Autumn cam-
paigns, which have shaken the foundation of Chungking": The talk was
nothing new, but the usual propaganda stating how these campaigns will
lead to the downfall of Chungking and how Chungking's source of suprly
has been cut off. It was merely a rehash of previous propaganda stat-
ing how determined the Japanese troops are in regard to the accomplish-
ment of the incident and how useless the aid of the third powers
toward Chungking is. The three campaigns mentioned were the Changsha
operation, the Teishu operation and the Canton operation.
Japamese music.
Tomorrow's program
Jupanese national enthem -2-

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
tion JZK Program
te 10/9/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles
News: (Record not very good)
The War Ministry today announced the names of the
veterans honored today for their distinguished services in the current
incident. Those who received the Order of theGolden Kite numbered 722.
The informati on Bureau today announced that a party,
headed by Masayuki Yokoyama, formerly minister to Spein, will be
dispatched in the near future for investigating the resources of
French Indo-China.
According to a dispatch from Washington, Kaname
Wakasugi, Japanese minister to the United States and diplomatic ad-
viser to Ambassador Nomura, arrived here from Tokyo by way of Mexico
City. Upon his arrival, he immediately conferred with Ambassador
Nomura and is scheduled to hold further conversation with the Ambassa-
dor in the next day or two.
According to a report from Washington, Great Britain,
United States ond the Netherlands East Indies have decided to stop all
oil shipments to Jepan. In regard to this, Japanosc authorities
stated that they had expected this move and are thoroughly prepared to
cope with any situation arising from the oil ban.
Something about a spokesman of the Japanese expedi-
tionary forces in Central China issuing & statement in regard to the
withdrawal of the Japn ese forces from Changsha after the successful
occupation of the city. (Record at this stage became very bad end died
down into the noise).
According to reports fron: Berlin, London, and other
places, the German troops are converging on Moscow from the north,
the west and the south and have already advanced to a point about 200
kilone ters away fron Moscow. Kalinin and Orel have fallen in their
hands and Ryazan, too, roportedly fell in their hinds yestorday.
According to a report from Berlin, Germany and Turkey
today signed a trade agreement for the exchange of 80,000,000 worth
of goods (Record very poor).
According to  di spatch from Ankare, the Afghanistan
government is seriously considering the joint demand made by England
and Soviet Russia for the wxpulsion of the German and Italian resi-
dents from Afghanistan. The text of the demand Feportedly is similar
to that which was prosonted to Iran and its purposo is to seek a
route to transport British and merican aid to Soviet Russia.
Something about Secretary of Knox revcaling the
present condition of the United States Navy (Record very indistinct
to catch what the news cormentator was stating).
Something about United States promising to supply
Netherlands East Indies with 5,000,Q00,000 (?) worth of war materials

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
very indistinct. Something about Chungking was mentioned in
news.)
Comment on current events: (Record very bad)
The talk pertained to England and America's activities
in East Asia and seemed to have been directed against.Amoricd for the
first time in a long while. The record was very poor and hardly audi-
ble due to the great amount of static. The talk began with the con-
ference held recently between Gen. Mcirthur and Sir Brookes Popham.
It explained how greatly concerned Jepan was in view of the purpose
of the conference being enti-Japanese. It wxplained thc action of
Japan in East Asia as being peaceful and for the sake of the people of
East Asia and how Japan is making every effort to maintain peace on
the Pacific. It emphasized the fact that the period has come to be
such that colonial settlements of foreign powers in East Asia can no
longer be permitted, if such settlements are to be used to disrupt the
peace of East sia. It pointed out that any nation has a right to
strengthen the defense of their possession, but that there is a limit
to the strengthening of such defense and that Japan cannot ignore
what is boing done in East Asia by England and america. To elucidate
upon this matter, it mentioned how Englend, through Duff Cooper, and
merica, through her advisers in Chungking, are trying to strengthon
the ∴BCD cordon against Japan.
Domestic nows: (Record very bad)
News was from Niigata, Ibaraki, Nagano, Ishikawa, Miye
and another prefecture. Nothing particul-rly intoresting was mentioned.
Bosides, the record was very poor.
(Recorder's note: The first half of this serics of records
was not very bad, but the second half was ver bad)
-2-

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
n JZK Program
10/10/41
quency 15,160 Kilocycles
News:
According to a dispatch from the front, the Japanese
troops today started a new offensive against the Chinese troops in
the region north of Taijiso in Shangtung Province.
According to a dispatch from the front, our military
air force yesterday raided Choatsushin, suutheast of Chengchow.
According to a dispatch from Nanking, the Nanking
government today observed thc anniversary of the Chinese revolution
and at a function held to observe this anniversary, Wang Ching-wei
made a speech in which he stated that to collaborate with Japan is the
only means of preserving China and bringing about peace in the Orient.
The Chinese embassy in Japan, also, held a commemoration luncheon in
observance of this anniversary.
To strengthen the cultural relation between Japan and
French Indo-Chine, Dr. Kotaro Tanaka, professor at Tokyo Imperial
University. has been selected to go to French Indo-China. Dr. Tanaka
will leave for French Indo-China in December and will conduct courses
in Japanese culture at the universities in Hanoi and Saigon for two
months.
On board a ship, which arrived in Yokohama today, were
508 Japanese evacuees from Central and South America and the Japanese
delegation, which, led by Sobei Hara, went to Central end Sotth Ameri-
ca to make an economic survey. In regard to the condition in Central
end South Americathey stated, "America's Central and South American
policies are gradually bearing results, because of the fear of the
Central and South American nations to be cconomically and militarily
coerced by America if they fail to comply with merica's wishes."
According to a dispatch from Berlin, Chancellor Hitler
yesterday announced in a paper that Germany's cempaign against Soviet
Russia will actually end with the annihilation of Gen. Timoshenko's
army, and this announcement is being seriously regarded as having a
profound significance. That is, it means thst Germany's campaign and
the European war will come to end with the surrender of the Russian
army nd the complete occupation of Russia, and the reasons why
Chancellor Hitler made this announcement before hand are being
regarded qs follows:
(1) of the Soviet Army, Gen. ........'s army of 1,O00,000 and Gen.
.......... army have already been annihilated in the northorn sector
and in the regions east of Kiev, respectively, while Gen. Timoshenko's
army of 1,500,0001s now facing the danger of being completely anni-
hilated. Hence, it can be said that Soviet Russia, militarily speak-
ing, has already been dofeated. (2) The ultimate aim of the European
war is the destruction of the British empire and the campaign against
Soviet Russia is merely a war to aid and abet this aim: In view of
this fact, it has becomo definitely clear that Germany wiil intensify
her campaign against England and accelerate the creation of a new
order in Europe.
131
-1-

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
According to a dispatch from Berlin, Chancellor Hitler
a message of encouragement to the German troops et the front
or to the execution of the gigantic campaign against Moscow on
tober 2. The whole text of the said message was made public yester-
day. In the message, Chancellor Hitler, pointing out the significance
of the European war, stated, "We are now about to undertake the
greatest battle of this year and besides dealing a devastnting blow
to the Soviet army, this war will lead to the destruction of Great
Britain." He, then, encouraged the German troops at the front by
listing the achievements of the German army during the past three
months. According to this message, the German army, during the paxt
three months, captured over 2,400,000 Russiens, took 17, 500 tanks,
destroyed or captured 21,000 guns and destroyed 14,200 airplanes.
According to a conmunique issued by the German High
Command yesterday, the German troons are making steady progress on all
fronts. In the south sector, the allied troops of Italy, Hungary and
Slovakia, led by the German mechanized troops, have unleashed a fierce
offensive and are about to annihilate about seven divisions of the
Soviet army. In the central sector, the German troops have encircled
Timoshenko's army in the region cast of Vyazane and are about to deal
the coup de grace. In the northern sector, the German t roops are un-
leashing a fierce attack on Leningrad and causing considerable damage.
At the same time, the German air force has been active alon: all
fronts. Yesterday, a squadron of Germen planes raided Leningrad and
caused considerable damage.
According to a dispatch from Berlin, the German govern-
ment today made public the signing of a new trade agreement between
Germany and Turkey by the reprosentatives of both nations at Ankara
yesterday. According to this agreement, Germany and Turkey will ex-
change goods on a barter system. The agreement will be effective
unti1 March 21, 1943.
It was disclosed recentlr that .merica's motive of
aiding Chungking is to obtain control of the natural resources of
China, and according to a dispatch from Shanghai, President Roose-
velt's special envoy to China, Grady, has acquired a long term right
for the development of the mineral resources of interior China through
the conclusion of en agreement with Chungking. ccording to the agree-
ment, America will have the right to develop the mineral resources in
Szechwan, Yunnan, Hunan and Chekiang Provinces for 99 years. Hence,
America's evil motive has finally come to the surface.
According to a dispatch from Panama, President Arias
has been overthrown in a bloodless coup d'etat and has been replaced
by Ernesto Jean Guardia, who immediately formed a new cabinet. The
reason for the overt row of President rias is believed to be his
strong Fascist tendencies and his opposition against merica's policies.
It is not known as to whether America had a hand in the bloodless
coup d'etat, but it is reported that she knew of it before it broke
out.
Comment on current events:
Topic "Latest condition of Chungking, which is on the
verge of destraction": This was out and out propagende designed to
-2-

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
cadict the reports sent out from Chungking. It mentioned how the
ranking officials of Chungking were living in luxury and becoming
ch by graft, while the common people were suffering from shortages
and the high cost of food. Because of this, it stated, more and more
Chinese, even officers and men of the Chinese army, were alienating
themselves fron Chungking and running toward Nanking and, explained how
Chungking is issuing false propaganda to hold the confidence of its
people, who already are fully aware of the groundless nature of such
reports. The talk, in general, depicted a gloomy picture of Chungking.
That is, it pictured Chungking as a place of living hell with the
death rate ciimbing higher and higher day by dey due to the unsanitary
conditions and the shortage of food-stuffs. It mentioned how Chung-
king is striving to hide the real facts in order to receive aid from
the third powers, especially England and America, but how the real
facts are leaking out in spite of her efforts. It pointed out how
England and merica are graduelly showing their evil motive -- that of
acquiring the natural resources of China and making: hina their
colonial settlement. In closing, thc internal destruction of Chung-
king was predicted to take place shortly.
European music.
Japanese national anthem.
-3

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.94)
Fe
Federal Burean of Javestigation
Anited States Department of Justice
Washington, D.G.
November 14, 1941
PERSONAL AND 
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
NUV I 1941
854.70/00
My dear Mr. Berle:
For your information and as of possible interest
I am transmitting herewith translated transcripts of radio
broadcasts from Tokyo, Japan for the period September 20,
1941 to October 4, 1941.
Sincerely yours,
Le. 2Aoover
Enclosures
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
NOV2
FILED
NOV 17 1941
DECLASSIFICD
Justice Departmenl Quiddnics, 4 27:1984
ByBIG
5.16.1984
C

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
tation JZK Program
Date 9/20/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles
Radio drama.
Japanese music.
News:
Japanese troop operations along the east and south
banks of Lake Tungting in Hunan Province, which was started on Septem-
ber 18, is progressing decidedly in favor of the Japanese troops.
That is, our troops have already annihilated 40,O00 cnemy troops and
are encircling the remaining enemy troops at various places. The
significance of this operution is to wipe out the fighting strength
of Chinese troops and obtain possession of the Lake Tungting region,
which is rich in natural resources.
Achievements of the Japanese troops operating in
Shanshi and Hopeh Provinces during the period from September 1 to
September 15: Killed, 3,858 enemy troops, captured 2,160 enemy
troops, 50 machine cuns, 1215 rifles, and 2,815 hand grenades. Oper-
ation still being pushed.
The Emperor this mornin sent a special emissary to
the Thailand embassy to oxpress his congratulations on the occasion
of the birthday of the Emperor of Thailand and also sent a message
of congratulations to the Emperor of Thailand.
The Autumn festival of the Yasukuni Shrine will be
held from October 15 to October 22 and during this festival those
killed in tho current campain will be enshrined. Including those
to bc enslrined, the number of soldiers will be 923, 789.
According to an announcoment made yestcrday by the
Military Air Forco Hendquirtors, the number of enemy planes shot
down by the Military Air Force since the beginning of the incident
is 1,985.
According to an announcement made by the Navy Depart-
ment yesterday, the Naval Air Force has raided the interior regions
of China 172 times. Of these, 92 were against Chungking, 30 against
Kumming, 12 against Ranshu and 18 against the Burma Route.
The National Support Society today made a suggestion
to the government in regard to the cultural policy to be conducted
in connection with t he establishment of the Greater East Asia Mutual
Prosperity Sphere.
According to a dispatch from Berlin, the German troops
have finally entered Kiev, yesterday, while another detachment of
-1-

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
German troops captured Poltava, loo kilometers northeast of Kremen-
chuc.
According to a report from a Balkan source, German
authorities are planning to create a new republic within the occu-
pied Russian territories when the present campaign is completed by
November.
Accordine to a communique issued by the German High
Command, the losses suffered by Germany up to August 30 were 5,886
men killed, 296, 670 wounded, and 20,295 unknown and the number of
German plancs destroyed over the same poricd were 725. On the other
hand, the comnunique stated that over i,800,000 Russian troops have
been captured.
According to a New York dispatch, President Roosevelt
on September 18 requested Congress to appropriate $5,985,000,000
to continue lend-lease aid to the anti-Axis nations. Although the
request is expected to be passed, it is believed that a heated de-
bate will take place in Congress centering around the appropriation
request.
Japanese music.
Comment on current events:
Topic "Developments of the Russo-German War and
England and America's Fear": (Talk has been greatly condonscd, due
to some noise interferenco). At the beginning of the Russo-German
War, Gormany's blitzkrieg tactics made considorable progress and
frightened England and America greatly. However, due to some change
in the tactics of Geraany, her progress slowed down and England and
America, who regarded this hopefully, tormed this as the Russo- German
War having reached a stalomated point. However, they immediately
found to their disappointment that Russia's fighting strength had
decreased considerably, for Stalin began hinting about the urgency
of Enclish and American aid for Soviet Russia.  In view of this fact,
England and America bcgan to accclerate their aid to Soviet Russia.
However, their plan to aid the Soviet has been hampered by the ship-
ping problems.  Of coursc, Engl nd, as well as America, is not really
worried as to whether their uid to Sovict Russia reaches her qulckly
or slowly, but they are actually afraid that the Soviet micht con-
clude a separate peace with Germany. Hence America, in particular,
is devising various moasures to make Soviet Russia continue her
fight against Germany and has carricd out many of these measures.
Her promisu of aid to Russia, of course, is one of these, and another
is Ancrica's recent strong attitude against Germany. Thus, tho
developments of the Russo-German War are scnsitively affecting
America in this way. However, Soviet Russia is fully aware of the
fact that England and America are trying to use her against Germany
to further their aims. Nevertheless, no matter how much tho Anglo-
Saxon race may try to utilize Sovict Russia, their calculation
-2-

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
undoubtedly will be badly upsct and even democracy will be seriously
threatened. This is because the nations of the world have come to
realize that England and America's real motivo is to realize their
ambition to dominatc the world, and the nations of the world have
been shown examples of this in the current European war more than they
could bear. Tho most recent example is the Iran incident. England
and Soviet Russia made Iran yicld to the most unbearable terms and in
spite of the fact that they promised not to invade Tehran they failed
to keep that promise and invaded the country. Thus, they have come
to realize that they cannot depend upon such domocracy, which ignores
the principles of humanity. Moreover, this was done inmediately af-
tor the joint declaration made by England and America in regard to
the protection of racial frecdom. At the time of the British and
Soviet troops' invasion of Iran, the people of Turkey near the region
of Sumul (phonetic) were considerably perturbed and a newspaper of
Turkey editorialized that President Roosevelt, in accordance with
his principle of democratic freedom, should do something about this
unfortunate situation of Iran and, if President Roosevelt could capa-
bly settle this situation, the poople of the world would probably
thank him from the bottome of their hearts. This indicates to what
extent the fireside chats of President Roosevelt, which he takes
treat delight in making, are imprcssing the peoplc of the world.
(Record indistinct). Throuh this invasion of Iran, England and
Soviet Russia have come to occupy a strong footing in southwestern
Asia, but there is no telling that this aggressive act will not
cause the war to spread into this region.  Nevertheless, America is
trying to justify this aggressive act of England as a just ace and
England, encouraged by this, is conductiny all sorts of outrageous
acts. While regarding Germany as a bad nation, they are trying to
intimidat. the weak nntions and spread the war. With Iran and Iraq
conquered, the only nation left today as their prey is Turkey. This
is the roason why considerable intcrest is being placed in the situ-
ation in Turkoy. In locking over the situation in Turkey today we
can see the fellowing things: Ever sincc the Balkan campaign, Tur-
key has been doubting the strength of England and has come to hold
creat dissatisfaction against Britain's actions in Syria, Iran and
Iraq. The Iran incident, in particular, has accelerated the anti-
British sontiment in Turkey and even the newspapers of Turkey have
criticized England to the effect that England, in spite of her claim
to guarantee freedom and independence, is not particular about her
actions, if pressed by necessity. Moreover, Turkey has come to feel
more uneisy with the joining of hands between England and Soviet
Russia, who has been her constant threct. As a result, Turkey is in-
clining towards Gcrmany. In view of this fact, England is desperate-
ly tryin: to win over Turkey with intimidation and appeasement.
Hence, Turkey's attitude today is turning decidodly in favor of Ger-
many. (Record indistinct). And to protect her integrity, she prob-
ably will choose to side with the Axis. In addition, the develop-
ments of the Russo-German war are turning very unfavorable to
England and decidedly in faver of Germany. Aithough England and
America are optimistically thinking that Germany is following the
-3~

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
xample of Napoleon, it must be recognized that Germany is fully
prepared for the winter.
Japancsc music.
Children of Hawaii, this is yeur news hour from Tokyo.
(note: condition not vory good). Your first n ws today is about
the lOth Anniversary of the Manchurian Incident, which was observed
on September 18. (Recorder's not: Condition very poor). (Made an
attempt to translate literally, but found it difficult to do so).
The news started with the outbreak of the Manchurian incident nine
years ago nd the subsequent establishment of Manchoukuo. It then
explained the difficulties resulting in the withdrawal of Japan from
the League of Nations, the number of nations recognizing Manchoukuo
today and the progress made by Manchoukuo. It hinted America's fool-
ishness in refusing to recognize Manchoukuc, in view of the fact that
she has considerable intcrests in Manchoukuo and that these interests
are benefittin through the progress made there. The second news
item pertained t the success of the Japanese troops operating in
China, how they are achieving great results in Hunan Province, os-
peciaily around Lake Tungting.
Japanese music.
Announcement of program up to September 23.
Talk on "Our Air Defense" by Saburo Yamajiku (?) of Japan
Airways Compsny: (Condition very poor, especielly the latter half
of the talk). The talk pertained to the great development of the
nirways of Japan. It started with the history of aviation, claiming
that the idea was first conccived in Japan 16o years ago. It then
montloned how airplunes developed as a military weapon during and
after the Werld War and hew they are being used by Japan in this cur-
rent incident. The talk then centered upen the productien of planes
by Japan, claiming these planes to be superior to the foreign-made
planes and backing this clnim by mentioning the long-distance gocd-
will fli hts made by Japanese planes. The rest of the talk ertained
to the cstablishment of airway cumpanies, their amalgamation and
great developments in the ficld of air transportation within the East
Asia mutual prosperity sphere. Accordin to this speech, airways
are connecting Japan with Manchoukuo and China and are extending far
Into the South Seas.
Notification of change of time schedule.
Japanese national anthem.
###
-3-

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.98)
Station JZK Program
Datc 9/22/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles
News: (Condition of rocord poor).
Town after town is falling before the onslaught of
the Japanose troops with the aid of the Japanese Air Force. As a
result, the field of battle has now shifted to the southern bank of
Lako Tungting.
News about the new opcration started by the Japanese
troops in Canton Province. Record too poor to translate. Needless
to montion, it can be readily surmiscd that the news pertains to
nothing but the steady progress being made by the Japanese troops.
News about the scheduled manouvers of the Japaneso
troops to be held in Cambodia soon.
Nows about the situation in Southcrn French Indo-China
since the landing of the Japaneso troops.
News of the total cclipse expericnced yestorday.
News of some kind of swimming meot started from today
at Meiji Jingu Swimming Pool.
News of the Russo-Gcrman war. Something about the
German troops in Ukrainia succceding in cutting off thc supply route
of the Russian troops in Crimea and the sinking of thrce Russian
ships off Crimoa.
News of Moscow admitting the fall of Kiev, and an
Italian newspaper's conment on thc fall of Kiev.
News of a prediction fron some sourcc that the fall
of Moscow will take placc next month.
News of a report from some source that an autonomous
Covernment will be set up in Ukrainia.
News of German Air Force raiding mainland England on
September 20 and the sinking of two British ships off the southeastern
const.
News of a DNB report statin that 253,000 tons of
British ships had been destroyed on the Atlantic by German submarines
during the past week.
There were two other news dispatches from New York and
-1-

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.98)
Manila, but interference was too great to make possible translation
of said news. To begin with, nothing could be understood.)
News of the wcek:
News of the 1Oth Anniversary of the Manchurian Inci-
dent and the various celebrations held to ccmmemorate it.
News of the adoption of two new regulntions by t he
Cabinet for the purpose of strengthening the trade relations (?)
within the East Asia mutusl prospority sphere, especially among
Japan, Manchoukuo and China.
News of the observation of th second annual Air Do-
fonse Day on September 20 and the various celebrations held to ob-
serve it.
News of the announcoment to observe the Autumn festi-
val of the Yasukuni Shrine.
Nows of the appointment of Admiral Shigctaro Shimada
as Commandant of Yokosuka Naval Base, besides the appointment of
several othors.
News of the Hunan oper tion started on September 18.
(The rest of the review of the news of the past week
pertained to sports and other miscellaneous items).
(Rocorder's note: Rest of program consisted only of
rusic.)
###

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
Cation JZK Program
Date 9/26/41
Frequency 15,l60 Kilocycles
Recorder's Note: Records not so good.
News:
According to a dispatch from Vichy, Premier Darlan
reportedly lodged a strong protest with the British Government
through tho American Government through her Ambassador to America,
requesting Britain to reconsider her challenging attitude toward
France.
According to a dispatch frcm New York, a committeo to
study the Pacific problcms reportodly has been created in America 
the purpose of maintaining peace on the Pacific. The committee re.
portedly has decided to hold a Pacific problums conference in
Washington sometime in October.
Accordin  to a dispatch from Washington, a resolutior
to nullify immediately the Neutrality Law was introduced into Congress
yestorday. However, there appears to exist a strong opposition
against it, claiming that the nullification of the Neutrality Law
is similar to a dcclaration of war.
According to a dispatch from Washingtcn, inasmuch as
ten warships, including the battleship Massachusetts, have been con-
structed this month, the Navy Dopartment is trying to spread the im-
prossion that America's ship-building has cntered its highest speed
since the World War, but the ships that had been constructed this
menth were those that had been started in 1938. Therefore, it cannot
be considered as an indication of America's ship-building prowess.
According to a broadcast intercepted in New York, tho
British Commander of the Asiatic Fleet reportodiy stated in a broad-
cast that Britain is prepared to place Singapore at the disposal of
America, whenever Amorica wants to. This is an indication of how
England is trying to strengthen the encirclement of Japan through
America's cooperation.
Comnont on current events:
Topic "The cconomic progress of East Asia and the les-
suning of England and America's cconomic influence In East Asia":
(Condonsed) Abcut two months ago, our country, with the establish-
mont of mutual prosperity in East Asia as her fundamental ideal,
started a negotiaticn for the joint defense of French Indo-China with
the French government and after reaching an understanding with the
Vichy and French Indo-China gevernments she undortook tho landing of
-1-

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
troops in Southern French Indo-China. Against this, England and
merica, who are trying to hamper our country's mission by disrupting
the peace of East Asia and thus protect their illegal interests, in-
voked the freezing of Japanese assets. In other words, England and
America, who had tried to check Japan by forming a military encircle-
ment and had failed, this time formed an anti-Japanese economic cor-
don and tried to obstruct Japan's aim to expand southward. When we
think of how our country's economy and trade had been dependent upon
England and America during the past years, the action taken by
England and America can be understood, but we cannot help but per-
ceive the.........of England and America's scheme. That is, they
had overlooked the fact that Japan's economy had strongly spread its
roots in East Asia. As explained some time ago, both sides suffer
in international economy and trade, if either one of the two parties
stop its transacticns. However, judging from the cconomic oppression
inflicted upon the nations affiliated with the Axis powers by England
and America, our country had expected this to happen and had been
preparing herself for it. Furthermore, our country's economic power,
which had been sowed throughout the nations of East Asia, completely
betrayed the expectations of England and America and took root deeply
and this honest fact, today, is being furthered all the more, in
spite of the actions of England and Amcrica. In other words, it has
resulted in England and America hitting their own heads with the
stick, which they had intended to use on Japan. The scheme of England
and America, both of whom had taken too lightly Japan's economic
power, is now placing them in a tight fix. Today I would like to
give a general picture of how Japan and Asia have changed and thus
support my contention, explained above. Now let us consider the sit-
uation in Shanghai, Hongkong, Dutch East Indies, Burma, and the
Philippines, which had been thought to be England and America's
stampin grounds. One of the greatest effects of the freezing of
Japanese assets upon shanghai is the devaluation of Shanghai's mone-
tary unit (?). (Record indistinct. Something about some kind of
committee being formed to prevent this devaluation and to control
trade. Mentioned something about the cxchange quota being set at
$6,O00,O00.) However, this amount will inevitably result in the
decrease of from 50 to 60 per cent of her trade. Hence, it is pre-
sumed that Shanghai will shortly experience a shortage of materials.
Furthermore, due to the instability of her monetary standard (?), she
is already experiencin a serious rise in prices. Again, many British
and American firms are preparing to withdraw from Shanghai. For ex-
ample, numerous large buildings, belonging to Jews and Anglo-Saxon
firms, are being placed on the market for sale lately and even the
main office of the Texas Oil Company (?) has been transferred to
Singapors. Honce, it is believed that British and American firms
will all be withdrawn from Shanghai, soon. Moreover, the decrease of
British and American trade can readily be seen by the great decrease
in the number of ships stoppinε over at Shanghai. According to an
announcement made by ........., Japanese ships have come to take over
the first position and American ships have dropped to second. This
obviously is an indication that Japanese goods are being sent in
-2-

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
reater quantities to the nations of the south through Shanghai late-
Iy. Next let us consider Hongkong. Here an ironic situation has
arisen. As a result of the freezing of Japanese assets, the goods
flowing into Hongkong are primarily English and American goods and
since the ..........of American ships are higher than that of Japan-
ese ships, a great rise in prices has taken place, and this is
causing considerable hardship to the people of China. Hence, the
opinion of the people in general is that they would not have to suf-
fer such hardships if Japanese goods were permitted to be imported.
Now, what can be regarded as an indication that Japanese goods have
come to possess a superior position and that the people are suffering
because no Japanese goods are being imported is the living conditions
in the Dutch East Indies, Burma, and the Philippines. First, let us
consider the case of the Dutch East Indics. No matter what may be
said, the stopping of the importation of such things as cotton cloths,
cotton thread, rayon, and miscellaneous food-stuffs, which are the
necessities of the people of the Dutch East Indies, is a great blow.
On the other hand, the reason why the exportation of sugar and other
products of Dutch East Indics has decreased to such an extent is that
Japan was one of her best customers. As a result, the economic power
of the people of the Dutch East Indies has weakened considerably.
This has resulted in the people seriously criticizing the action of
the govornment and in the strengthening of the belief that the Dutch
East Indics will make an ass of herself by remaining so faithful to
America. This situation is also seen in Burma and the Philippines.
The shortage of materials and the rise in prices in the Dutch East
Indies, Burma, and the Philippines, are primarily due to the cutting
off of goods from Japan. As a result, the people of these places
have come tc feel greatly dissatisfied at the actions of England and
America. In other words, England and America's economic oppression
against Japan has come to affect seriously their Fssessions and re-
veal the weakness of their cconomic system. Thus it can be said their
actions has come to plague themselves instead of us. On the other
hand, let us consider the case of French Indo-China, which has come
to realize her position in East Asia and has not only joined hands
with Japan militarily but also economically, in the case of Thailand,
her neighbor. It can be said that French Indo-China, lately, has
made a great economic progress by collaborating with Japan in the
realization of the spirit of mutual assistance. The principal ex-
ports of French Indo-China are rice, corn, and minoral ores, and, al-
though her traffic with France has been cut off today, she has evaded
bankruptcy by sending these products to Japan. Moreover, by impcrt-
ing her textilcs and other miscellaneous goods from Japan, she has
made the life of her people full of plenty and has strengthened her
economic power. As for Thniland, the British firms, which had con-
trolled the market of Bangkok formerly, must depend upon Japanese
firms now because of the enforcement of the regulations to control
foroign transactions by Japan. In addition to that, England's abro-
gation of her trade agreements has transferred the controlling power
of the Bangkok market from the hands of the British firms into the
hands of the Japanese firms. As a result, the position of the
-3-

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
anese firms in Bangkok hss changed radically and has come to
ontrol, practically, the markets of Bangkok.  In fact, England and
America's freezing of Japanese assets certainly afforded a grand op-
portunity to Japan to retaliate. Today the greatest problem of Japan
who is striving to perfect her war preparation is the expansion of
her production power and this, too, has been greatly strengthened by
the enforcement of various regulations. Even in the trade aspect, the
trade contrel regulations have been enforced, thus making clear the
policy of Asiatic trade for the Asiatics. In cther words, besides
the strengthening of the production footing aiming to unite Japan,
Manchoukuo, and China as one, trade and distribution have been har-
monized and this, in a word, will greatly contribute toward the ani-
mation of the economic power of the nations of East Asia.
Japancse Music
Domestic nows: (Record very indistinct).
News from Aichi, Shizuoka, and Yamanashi Prefectures
pertained to the near completion of a wrestling auditorium in Nagoya,
the mobilization of wemen's organizations in Nagoya on September 18
to perform all kinds cf natienal service and training, the increaso
in the number of middle school graduates of Aichi Prefecture desiring
to go to Manchoukuo to work after graduating from school, the ob-
serving of a shrine festival in Shizuoka, the receiving of a Bird of
Paradise by a certain school in Shizuoka fron the South Seas and tho
discovery of some kind of substitute for something.
Japanesc national anthem.
###

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
tion JZK Program
atc 9/27/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles
(Recorder's note: Noise bad tonight).
News: (Rccord very bad)
Something about Japanese troops converging from all
sides on Changsha and routing the Chinese troops in the suburbs.
Something about Chungking being raided by Japanese
air force.
Front line report of the Japanese troops' operation
in the region north of Changsha.
To commemorato the first anniversary of the tripartite
alliance, a luncheon was held today at the Imperial Hotel by the
Foreign Office.
Something about the addresses given by Foreign Minis-
ter Toyoda and Gorman Ambassador to Japan Ott. (Static made it too
difficult to translate, but a phrase caught was that the aim of the
tripartito alliance is to cstablish world peace.)
Something about Japanese Ambassador to Gcrmany Oshima
and German Foreign Minister Ribbentrop doing something to commemorate
the first anniversary of the tripartite alliance.
News of the Russo-German War. (Wholly inaudible due
to static).
Corment on current events:
Talk appeared to be something about the tripartite
alliance. It appeared to bo a review of the relations between Ger-
many and Japan during the past year and the development of the in-
ternational situation centering around this a reement. The commenta-
tor claimed that thc conclusion of this agreiment was brought about
by the actions of England and Anerica, who tried to obstruct Japan's
plan to create a mutual prosperity sphere in East Asia, and mentioned
Japan's determination to accomplish her ain. In closin, commentator
emphasized that the tripartite alliance is workin as a check pre-
venting America from taking part in the European war. (It was impos-
sible to translate this talk in dotail because of the static, al-
though the latter third of the talk was not so bad.)
Program for the coming week.
Japanese National Anthem
###

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
tion JZK Program
te 10/1/41
Frequency 15,l60 Kilocycles
News:
In the Hunan operation, the Japanese troops annihila-
ted 36 Chinese divisions, composed of 600,000 troops. In another
operation (name indistinct), which was conducted simultaneously with
the Hunan operation,..........
.......and captured about 2,ooo offi-
cers and men. (Record poor).
More news pertaining to the Japanese troops operation
in Canton (Indistinct).
Japaneso naval air force yesterday raided......
and destroyed several Chinese planes that were on the gound.
News of the three powers conference at Moscow, re-
porting that Sovict Russia will demand the landing of British troops
on the European continent and all-out cconomic aid from En land and
America. (Record indistinct).
According to a dispatch from Los Angeles, the Hearst-
controlled newspapers of America aro expressing a strong opinion
against tho nullificaticn of the Noutrality Law and aid to Sovict
Russia. They are claiminy that it would be useless to supply the
Soviet with arms because the defeat of Russia is inevitable.
Somethin about : dispatch from Moscow, pertaining to
a conaunist papor's editorial on cil production (?) (Record very bad)
According to a comunique issued by the German High
Command yesterday, Italian troops, operating in the regions east of
the Dnieper River, routed a strong Russian division and captured
several thousand Russinan troops.In the north, Cerman troops on
September 28 and 29 unlenshed heavy artillery fire against the Rus-
sian troops and caused considerable damage. Besides, the Gorman Air
Force conducted a devastating raid against Leningrad.
According to 1 dispatch from London, Premier Churchill
mado a report on the Russo-German War, the defense of England, and
aid to Russia before tho Parliament yesterday and acknowledged the
superiority of German troops in Rus sia. (Record indistinct).
According to a dispatch from New York, President
Roosevolt yesterday mornin requested Secrctary of State Hull to call
at the White House and discussed the Neutrality Law question for
about two hours. In viow of the strong opinion against the nullifi-
cation of th Noutrality Law, it Is belioved that the law will only
be amended.
-1-

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.98)
According to a dispatch from Mexico, President Gen-
A Manuel Avila Camacho yesterday appointed his elder brother,
aximino Avila Cumachc, as Minister of Transportation. His appoint-
ment, it is believed, will cause a reat repercussion within the
political circle, in view of the strong opposition against this
choice.
According to a dispatch from Ankara, German Ambassador
to Turkey Pattan on September 29 conferred with the Turkish Foreign
Minister.............., and according to a well-informed source, a
trade agreement between Turkey and Germany will be coneluded some-
timo this week.
The domarcation conforencc for the settlement of the
border between French Indo-China and Thail nd was held yesterday and
since all the proposals were approved, the actual demarcation will
take place shcrtly.
Conment on current events:
Topic "Britain's Scheme and Duff Cooper's Role":
Britain, who had bcen worrying and fearing that Italy and Germany's
invasien of mainland England may take place today or tomorrow, was
Creatly rolieved when the war between Germany and Russia broke out
and entertained the hopeful vicw that the Soviet would exhaust Ger-
many with her protracted warfare strategy and that it would acceler-
ate merica's aid to Britain and entry into the war if the war should
be protracted. Britain strove to rovive hcr strength through various
means. Such things as the a ression in Iran, th: unlawful cntry
into Iraq, and the three powors conference, which is presontly buing
held at Moscow, eloquently reveal England's uneasiness since she is
making such desperato efforts. However, the defeat of Sovlet Russia
in her war with Germany has definitely become obvious and even mili-
tary expoerts in En land are entertaining a pessimistic view. To bo-
gin with, Germany's strategy is not to conquer tho whole of Russia,
but is only aimed at the military raw materials found in the Ukrain-
ian Recion. If she conquers this region, it is obvious that she
will stop her campaign against Russia and again undertake her attack
on Britein with rencwed vigor. Theroforc, the defeat of Soviet Rus-
sia has become imminent. At the same timc, America's aid to Britain
is toe small to help quench the dry thront of Britain and is not
sufficient in case of exhaustlon. This weakening of England has also
cast a vory gloomy cutlook upon tho lifo of hor colonial settlemonts
and has increased the anti-British fecling ameng the natives of her
colonial suttlements in East Asia in particular. Honce, Britain,
becoming alarmed and confuscd, is attempting to.............tho anti-
British atmosphere and rako the natives oppose Japan, the stabilizing
power cf Enst Asia. As you all know, she has succeeded in forming
the so-callod ABCD cordon, and Duff Cooper is the actor who is
dancing around with this schure as the scenery. Duff Cooper's mis-
sion reportedly is or a clerical nature, inasmuch as it is the con-
solidation of Britain's colonial settlement in East Asia.
-2-

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
ertheless, the view that Duff Cooper, who formerly was Britain's
nister of Propaganda, has spread everywhere with his oratorical
ower is.................and the strengthening of the anti-Japanese
encirclement. In other words, it is nothing but the obstruction,....
......and the disruption of East Asia's mutual prosperity sphere,
and an attempt to bring about a crisis between Japan and America in
the Pacific. (Record indistinct. Mentioned how Duff Cooper is ad-
vocating the strongthening of Singapore, the connection with Chung-
king, and thc coercicn against Thailand). It is clear the scheme of
Britain in East Asia is being bluntly and astutely carried out
threugh his activities. This is verified by her egotistical propa-
ganda to the effect that Japan's ambition in East Asia is the com-
plete dominaticn of that regien. (Record indistinct. Mentioned the
recent movement of Duff Cooper and his propaganda in regard to the
ABCD encirclement). The weakness of the ABCD encirclement, propa-
gandized by Duff Cooper, is known more thoroughly by the natives of
Britain's colonial settlements than by anybody else. For example,
in the recent Shangsha operation, Changsha, which was defended by
Chungking's best troops nd very strongly fortificd, was defeated in
only ten days. This fact has brought to light the weakness of Chung-
king's military strength, which England has propagandized as one of
the supporting wings of thc ABCD encirclement. Hence, in regard to
Duff Cooper's activities, we will pay our strictest attention and
watch his movements as i manifestation of foxy Britain's Far Eastern
policy. On the other hand, a repcrt which we must take seriously
into consideration has been received. That is, Duff Cooper's mis-
sion, as has been revealed by his activities, is Britain's .......
of the raw mnterials of East Asia. It has also been reported tlat
the action of Duff Cooper, as though he were the leader of Britain's
Far Eastern policy by advocating the strengthening of the anti-Japan-
ose encirclement and............of the raw materials of East Asia,
lately, is being sevorely critized within Britain's political circlos.
Japanese music.
Talk by Wakao Oiwa, head of East Asia Section, Domei News
Acency, on "Significance of the capture of Changsha": The Changsha
operation, which wus started on September 18, his resulted in the
occupation of Changsha, the strongest fortification of the 9th
Chinese ilitary District, within ten days. Of the 58 Chinese divi-
sions that were stationed along the front, 19 were completely anni-
hilated. In spite of this fact, Chungking has refused to admit the
fall of Changsha ind has propa andized to the world that Changsha
has not fallen into the hands of the Japanese troops but is still
being defended by the Chinese. Nevertheloss, the funny thing about
it is that, in spite of the fact that foreign reporters of Shanghai
were taken by Diroctor Takiyama of our military press rel tions
bureau in Shanghai by plane to inspect the condition of Changsha,
which had fallen into the hands of the Japanese troops, from the air,
Chungking announced that since it was reported thnt foreign reporters
accompanied by Lt. Col. Takiyuna would fiy over Changsha our troops
waited all day but failed to sce them come. We cannot help but be
-3-

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.98)
foundcd at Chungking's attempt to deny such an obvious fact.
ow let us consider why Chungking must deny (?) something so ob-
vious and darken the eyes of her people and the ears of the foreign
nations with such lics. Ever since the outbreak of the incident,
Chungking has distributed numerous pieces of propaganda, but her
current attempt to obliterate such an obvious fact must be said to
be rather interesting. This is because various reasons accompany
the action. At presnet, Owen Lattimore, who has been sent by Presi-
dent Roosevelt as advisor to Chiang Kai-shek, is in Chungking. Now
what is of greatest importance to America today is to find out the
extent of Chungking's power of resistance against Japan and it is
the mission of Owen Lattimore to survey this from a military and ec-
onomic angle and report it to President Roosevelt, I believe. Since
Owen Lattimore's stay in Chungking places Chiang in an awkward posi-
tion, troops have been stationed around Lattimore on the pretext of
uardin him to keep other officials of Chungking to inform him se-
cretly of the actual facts. In other words, Owen Lattimore is in
2 state of imprisonment in Chungking. The roason why Chungking is
tryin to ive credence to the word that Changsha has not fallen
into the hands of the Japanese troops with such lies as the failure
of the foreign reporters to fly over Changsha and the reception of
a mossage dispatched by the Commandant of the 9th Military District
from Changsha yesterday is to prevent such persons as Owen Lattimore
and Duff Cooper from hearing or seein the extent to which Chungking
and her troops have weakened. Furthermore, since Chungking had ex-
aggerated her troops' strength to Britain and America, it would cer-
tainly be bad to admit thit Changsha had fallen only after ten days
of fighting and, if she did not claim that Changsha is still in her
hands, the things she had propagandized to date would all be re-
garded as fabrications and hur reputation would be ruined. Bosides
to openly admit that her fighting strength had weakened to such a
degree would result in the Iessoning of American's aid. Therefore,
Chungking, believing that America is nogotiating something important
with Chungking, is fabricating the actual facts as much as possible
and is exaggeriting her fighting strength. Such being the case,
Chungking is trying her best to oblitorate the real facts by deny-
ing the fall of Changsha in spite of the fact that it has actually
fallen. On tho other hand, Britain, America and Soviet Russia are
presently holding a three powers conforence at Moscow to discuss
the various means by which Britain and America could aid Soviet
Russia. This conference was brought about by the fact that Soviet
Russia has displayed such strong resistence  ainst Germany and
that Britain and America want to help Soviet Russia to continue her
resistence. Therefore, it would be very bad for Chungking to have
America and Britain know that Changsha had fallen in such a short
time. Especially is this so, because Chungking cannot threaten
Britain and America that she will negotiate an independent peace
with Japan just like Soviet Russia, who is threatening to conclude
an independent peace with Germany if Britain and America fail to
come through with their aid to view of the fact that she had put
up such a stubborn resistence aglinst Germany. Furthermore, Chung-
king, today, no lcnger has the strongth to fight against Japan
-4~

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.98)
hout aid from America. (Record indistinct). The fall of Changsha
an indication that the fighting power of Chungking, contrary to
Her propaganda, has greatly weakened and that no matter how strongly
an area may be fortified by Chungking, our land, air, and sea forces
can break through it once they take action. It is also an indica-
tion of the bottomless strength possessed by our country on land, in
the air, and on the sea. In other words, the significance of the
Changsha operation lies in the fact that it has made known to the
world, especially to Britain and America, the extent to which the
fighting power of Chungking has weakened and the firm determination
of Japan to dispose of the China incident and create the East Asia
mutual prosperity sphore. (Propoganda in every respect).
Japanese national anthem.
###
-5

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.98)
tion JZK Program
ate 10/2/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles
(Recorder's note: Transmitter trouble at JZK. Fading
badly this evening.)
News:
Something about the Japanese troops' operations in
Hunan.
Statement of the Director of the Information Bureau
of thc Imperial Military Headquarters in regard to the Japanese
troops' Changsha operation.
Achievements of Japanese troops operating in the
southern part cf Shensi Province--5,000 Chinese captives, 2,000
killed, 200 guns, 2,000 riflcs, and 40,000 rounds of buliets taken.
Somothing about Thailand's Ambassador to Japan ap-
pearing before the Emperor to present his credentials.
The central political commission of the national
government of China today announced the appointment of Foreign Minis-
ter Hsu Liang as Ambassader to Japan and Dr. Chu Min-yi as the new
Forcign Minister.
The three powers conference of Britain, America, and
Soviet Russia at Moscow was officlally closed (?) on the afternoon
of October 1 with Britain and America's promise to givc all-out aid
to Soviet Russia. However, official sources believe that the possi-
bility of Soviet Kussia's concluding an indepondent poace with Ger-
many has increased. (Reason indefinite).
According to a dispatch from Berlin, a spokesman of
the German government, commenting on Premier Churchill's talk beforo
Parliament on Septcmber 30, termed it as pessimiatic and admitting
the defeat of Sovict Russia.
According to a dispatch from Rome, the British Fleet,
which was scriously damaged by the Italian Air Force some time aso,
was again ttacked by Italian submarines in the waters south of
Gibraltar. Two of the British warships reportedly were hit directly
by Italian torpedoos.
A report from Berlin statin the restoration of train
sorvice somewherc in Ukrainia and the completion of the plan to
establish an autonorous covernment in Ukrainia, sometime within this
menth.
-1-

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.98)
Something about the outbreak of a revolt in the
Mosul region of Iran.
Comment on current events:
Topic "En land, Amorica and Soviet Russia's Thrco
Powors Conference": Condition was very poor and I had to give up
trying to translate this talk in detail. In this talk, the commen-
tator tried to picture England as the bad wolf and made practically
no abusive remarks about Amorica. He mentioned the various attempts
made by England to form an anti-Gorman bloc to prctect herself, how
those attempts failed and how she finally succeeded in drawing Ameri-
ca into her schome. This change of attitude toward America has b en
markedly noticcablo lately and espocially so in this particular case.
In regard to the Three Pewers Conierence at Moscow, he mentioned the
futility of England and America's attempt to help Russia and based
his view upon three reasons: The first was Soviet Russia has prac-
tically lost all of her productive strongth; the second was the dif-
ficulty of sending materials of aid to Russia, and tho last was
something about troops, which I could not catch cloarly. He ex-
plained how England, and America, as an ally of Britain, had voiced
their promise to aid Russia and had failed to do much and how finally
the holdin of the Three Powers Confcrence was brou ht about through
Russia's threat to conclude an independent peace with Germany. He
elucidated upon England and America's aid to Russia as an attempt
to preserve RussiaTs resistance against Germany and prolong the Russo-
Gorman War.
News broadcast in Enclish:
Practically the same items, as broadcast in Japaneso,
were broadcast.
Japanese national anthem.
##
-2-

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
vation JZK Program
Date 10/3/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles
News:
Achievements of the Japanese troops operating in
Hunan, as known to date: 61,719 cnemy troops ki1led, 65,672 cnemy
troops captured, and arms taken include 82 guns, 22,500 bombs, 916
machine guns, 7,565 rifles, and 3,508,700 rounds of bullets.
According to a dispatch from Nanking, Wang Ching-wei,
head of the Chinese Central Government, on October i issued a state-
ment encouraging the Chinese troops assisting the Japanese troops
in the Hunan operation to do their best to fulfill the requirements
of the Chinese-Japanese military agreement.
Japan today lodged a vigorous protest with Iran
against the suspension of diplomatic privileges of the Japanese
legation in Tehran. It is believed that the Iranian government
acted under the pressure of Britain, in view of the fact that simi-
lar actions have been taken by India and Iraq.
Today, October 3, has been designated as the day to
express our thanks to the Japanese soldiers fighting at the front.
At noon, a minute of silence was observed for those who had given
their livcs for the reat cause. On the other hand, various functions
were held to observe the day.
According to a dispatch from Berlin, German authori-
ties believe that the three powers conference will have no material
effoct upon the Russo-German War, in view of thc conflict of view-
point roportedly oxisting between Russla, and England and America.
Gormany today unloashed a furious attack on the Pere-
kop Isthmus, connecting Crimca with Ukrainia, with glider and para-
chuto troops and reportedly advanced 16 kilometers.
According to a cormunique issued by the German High
Command, the Italian troops operating along the Dnieper River re-
portedly captured &,O0o Russians during the period starting from
Septomber 23 and ending on September 30.
According to a communique issued by the German High
Command on October 2, the German Air Force raided Loningrad and
Moscow, while unother squadron raided the air fields in southeastern
England and sank a British merchant ship of about 2,O0o tons.
According to a DNB ruport from Ankara, a Russian sub-
marine entorcd the Turkish port of Hopa and has been interned.
-1-

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.97)
According tc a dispatch from Reykjavik, the Promier
of Iceland in an interview with newspaper reporters on Septomber
30 expressed his hope that the British and American troops, present-
ly stationed in Iceland, will be immediately withdrawn after the
termination of tho present crisis. Due to the stationing of these
troops, the Premicr stated that numerous problems botween the women
of Iccland and these troops have occurred and even the cost of
living has risen 70%.
Something about revolt breakin out in Iran (Record
suddenly becamo bad).
Something about America (Record died down into noise).
Comment on current evonts:
Topic "Our troops' Hunan operation": The talk, as
usual, was propaganda about the achievements of the Japanese troops.
It mentioned the decisive victory achieved by t he Japanese troops
in such a short timc and its offect upon Chungklng, and how this
victory of the Japanese troops is being welcomed by the Chinese,
in spite of the false propaganda of the Chungking government.
Japanose music.
Japanese National Anthom.
##

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
bation JZK Program
Date 10/4/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles
(Recorder's note: 7 minutes late in beginning our record-
ing because of other official intercepts.)
Note:
According to a dispatch from Bangkok, Russian ships
reportedly are in Batavia loading necessary materials and leave for
Vladivostok shortly. It is an indication that the Dutch East Indies
are actually cooperating with England and America to aid Soviet
Russia.
Accordin to a dispatch from Rome, revolts have
broken out along the border of Soviet Russia and Iran and these
revolts are threatening the Soviet and the British troops.
According to a dispatch from Rio de Janeiro, the
American tanker, Elsie While, 7,O50 tons, registered under the Pan-
amanian flag, was torpedoed and sunk off the coast of Brazil on
September 27.
Something about a report from Buenos Aires pertaining
to the sinking of an Argentine ship by German submarine. (Record
not too distinct.)
Comment on current events:
Topic "Duff Cooper's Movement, which is revealing
the weakening of Britain": (Recorder's note: Atmosphoric condi-
tions were not at all favorable for making good recordings.) Reoord
was so indistinct at places thut it was impossible to make any-
thing out at the time. However, the ist of the talk appeared to be
as follows: Duff Cooper has beon sent to the Far East to protect
Britain's intorest by strengthoning the anti-Japanese encirclement
anc causc trouble between Japan and America, if possible, However,
Japan is wise to Britain's scheme and is determined to wip away
ali such obstacles brought about by Duff Cooper's activities.
Tentatiye Program for tho coming week.
Tomorrow's Program
Japanese music.
Japanese National Anthem.
###

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.95)
DER
FAC EASTERN AFFAIRS
Federal Burean of Juvestigation
LE
Anited States Department of Justice
1941
ashington, D..
Department of State
November 19, 1941
IIIC
PERSONAL AND 
RE
NOV2
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
ASSISTANT
Washington, D. C.
194
P-RLE
My dear Mr. Berle:
894.76/66
For your information and as of possible interest
I am enclosing herewith translated transcripts of radio
broadcasts from Tokyo, Japan for the period October 16,
1941 to October 21, 1941.
Sincerely yours,
Ée. 24oover
DEC
FILED
894.76
Enclosures
61941
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
11
NOV 21 1941
PS/HT
OF STATE
Jutice Depastmeut Guidlnis, 1-27.1984
210
5.161984

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
ation JZK Program
Date 10/16/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles
(Record not very good)
Radio drama.
News:
In a discussion of the emergency held yesterday at the
civic auditorium in Kyoto, Capt. Hideo Hiraide, chief of the informa-
tion bureau of the Imperial Naval Headquarters, explaining the inter-
national situation and commenting on the acute situation in the
Pacific frankly, urged the great determination of the people. In it,
he warned that in spite of the effort of the government authorities,
the Japanese-American relations have reached its crossroads and ex-
plained that in spite of the four years of war, the Japanese navy is
still sound and strong and is fully prepared to cope with the
worst situation. Furthermore, he stated, the Japanese navy is about
to accomplish its original mission. Thus did he reveal to the people
for the first time the opinion and firm determination of the Japanese
navy.
In an editorial published today, the Asahi Shimbun,
voicing the sentiment of the nation, in regard to the attitude of
America, mentioned the various oppressive acts inflicted upon our
country ever since the outbreak of the China incident and pointed out
the selfish nature of America's interpretations and her disregard of
the international law, as follows: "America's so-called consideration,
in the majority of cases, is based upon her dogmatic interpretation.
As a result of the outbreak of war between Russia and Germany, the
only nations that aro............are Japan and America, and it is not
an exaggeration to state that the nations that could save the world
from the war are only America and Japan. Consequently, the responsi-
bility of both nations is very great, and this is the reason why the
Japanese-American diplomatic negotiation was started". Thus did the
Asahi Shimbun urge America's reconsideration and explained our
country's peaceful policy.
The emperor today approved the 14th conferment of honors
upon the veterans of the current incident, according to a joint
announcement made by the War Ministry and the Bureau of Awards. 2,090
were conferred with the Order of the Golden Kite.
The emperor and the empress today entertained the Chinese
ambassador and his wife, who are scheduled to leave for Nanking
shortly.
A meeting of the vice-ministers was held this morning at
the premier's residence. After a report on the economic condition in
Manchoukuo and North China was made by Assistant Director Arakawa of
-1-

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
che Manchurian Affairs Bureau, Vice-Foreign Minister Amo explained the
Russo-German war situation.
The Autumn festival of the Yasukuni Shrine was started
from today. It began with the presentation of branches of sacred
tree by high military and government officials.
According to a dispatch from our embassy in Moscow re-
ceived by our foreign office today,the People's Commissary for Foreign
Affairs yesterday warned our embassy to be prepared to cvacuate by
nightfall. Although the destination was not made knowm, it can be
perceived that the German troops are drawing closer to Moscow. Accord-
ing to other reports, the greater part of the Soviet government re-
portedly have started to evacuate. It is believed that the government
will be shifted to Kazan, 7oo kilometers east of Moscow.
According to a Domei dispatch from Moscow, complete de-
fense preparations have been made in the city of Moscow by the Soviet
troops, in view of the steady advance of the Germsn troops. Mean-
while, Germany, in e special communique, has announced the capture of
over 560,O00 Russian troops in the rogions around Vyazma and Bryansk.
According to a Domei dispatch from New York, the Soviet
government admitted in a radio broadcast, intercepted in New York,that
the position of the Soviet troops has become very unfavorable and
that part of the first line of defense has been broken through by the
German troops, thus compellins the citizens of Moscow to evacuate.
According to a roport from well-informed source, Maxime
Litvinov, people's commissar of foreign affairs, will shortly visit
London and Washington to sound Britain and America's real intention in
regard to their promised aid to Soviet Russia.
According to a report from well-informed source, a mili-
tary board of strategy, composed of British, American and Chinese
military officials, has been formed in Chungking to direct the oper-
ations of the Chinese force upon the suggestion of the Amerlcan mili-
tary delegation, which is presently visiting in Chungking.
According to a dispatch from Bangkok, the foreign mini-
ster of Thailand on October 14 reportedly issued a warning to the
foreign press correspondents against sending out news injurious to
Thailand. He warned that any correspondent sending out newsinjurious
to Thailand will be deported.
According to a dispatch from Buenos Aires, the acting
president of Argentina, refuting England and America's propaganda that
Argentina is inclining toward England and America, stated that the
consummation of the trade agreement with America has no political
significance and that there is no need to conclude a new agreement in
order to draw closer to America.
Comment on current events:
Topic "The Autumn Festival of Yasukuni Shrine":
This was a very short talk and pertained to ceremony held on the first

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
day, today. It emphasized the purpose of this festival as to honor
those who had given their life for the establishment of lasting peace
in the Orient, and also elucidated upon the glorious virtue of the
emperor.
Domestic news: (Shikoku Districts).
The news was from Tokushima, Kagawa, Kochi and Ehime Pre-
fectures. In the news from Tokushima Prefocture, it was reported
that the city of Tokushime observed its 53 anniversary on October 1,
that a motion picture of the life behind the front has been com-
pleted and will be sent to the soldiers at the front for their enter-
tainment, that plans are being made to increase marriages and births
in accordance with the Heelth Ministry's plan, that some kind of
product is being sent in greater quantity to French Indo-China and
Thailand and that the cherry blossom is in full bloom in the prefec-
ture. In the news from Kagawa, it was reported that the Kompira
Shrine's festival was held on October 10 and 1l, that plans for the
amalgamation of the 35 cultural organizations of the prefecture into
a single cultural federation are being furthered by local chapter of
the National Support Society and that a recent survey made of the
forthcoming graduates of middle schools revealed that eight times
more graduates than last year are desiring to seek their fortune in
Manchoukuo and China. In the news from Kochi Prefecture, the heroic
death of Lt. Ogasawara, a native of the said prefecture, was played
up, basides the visit of a certain lieutenant to the hospitals of the
wounded and sick soldiers within the prefecture. In the news from
Ehime Prefecture, it was reported that a shrine festival was observed
in Matsuyama city.
Japanese music.
Japanese national anthem.
-3-

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
tation JZK Program
Date 10/17/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles
(Record very poor)
News:
The third Konoye Cabinet resigned enbloc yesterday. No
reason was given; just the achievoments of the cabinet during its
three months of existence.
Something about an emergency meeting of high ranking
officials to select the head of the succeeding cabinet.
Some comment on the resignation of the cabinet was made,
but record was hardly audible.
Something about the emperor's visit to Yasukuni Shrine.
News about Japanese troops' operations in China.
News about Russo-German war.
(Recorder's note: uit because too much noise in re-
ceiver).

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
tation JZK Program
Date 10/18/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles
(Records not very clear)
News:
Completing the selection of his cabinet members, Gen.
Tojo this afternoon presented his list to the emperor for his appro-
val, after which the investiture of the new ministers was conducted.
The new ministers are: Premier Hideki Tojo--Minister of war, home
and overseas. Shigenori Togo--Minister of foreign affairs. Admiral
Shigetaro Shimada--Minister of navy. Okinori Kaya--Minister of
finance.........Iwamura--Minister of justice. Kunihiko Hashida--
Minister of education. Lt. Gen. Chikahiko Koizumi--Welfare minister.
Hiroyasu Ino--Minister of agriculture and forestry. Vice-Admiral
Ken Terajima--Minister of communications and railways. Maj. Gen.
Teiichi Suzuki--Minister without portfolio. Shunsuke Kishi--Minister
of commerce and industry.
The newly formed cabinet is holding its first meeting at
five p.m. today at the premier's residence. After the meeting.
Premier Tojo is scheduled to hold an interview with press reporters
and talk to the nation over the JoiK station, in regard to the policy
of the new cabinet.
Personal history of Gen. Tojo--Native of Iwate prefec-
ture. 58 years old. Was chief of staff of Kwantung Army in 1937.
Appointed vice-minister of war in 1938. Was first director-general
of military aviation. Was war minister of the 2nd and 3rd Konoye
cabinets. Expected to carry out Japan's established policy.
Personal history of Shigenori Togo--Native of Kagoshima
prefecture. 60 years old. Entcred foreign office service upon
graduating from the Tokyo Imperial University. Stationed in China,
Manchoukuo, Europe and America. Was director of the Europe and
American Burcau and the Europe and Asia Bureau . Was ambassador to
Germany in 1937 and ambassador to Russia in 1938.
Personal history of Adm. Shigetaro Shimada. Native of
Tokyo. 59 years old. Graduate of Naval Staff College. Commanded
several warships. Was chief of staff of second fleet. Was principal
of naval school of submarine. Was chief of staff of third fieet.  Was
director of lst department of Naval Staff Board. Was commander-in-
chief of Japanese fleet in China waters. Was appointed commandant of
Yokosuka naval base on September 1 , this year.
Personal history of Shunsuke Kishi--Native of Yamaguchi
prefecture. 46 years old. Graduate of Tokyo Imperial University.
Entered service of Department of Commerce and Industry immediately
afterwards. Was transferred to Manchoukuo. Then, became vice-mini-
ster of cormerce and industry in 1940. Youngest member of the
cabinet.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
Personal history of Vice-Admiral Ken Terajima--Native of
Wakayama prefecture. 60 years old. Graduate of naval academy and
staff college. Served as director of education and naval affairs
bureaus. Promoted to vice-admiral in 1932. Retired in 1934 to become
head of Uraga Dockyards, Dai Nippon Ordnance Mfg. Co.
In Italy, the reorganization of the cabinet is being re-
garded as a trend toward the strengthening of the Axis alliance to a
greater degree.
In Manchoukuo, it is being regarded as the greater
strengthening of the inseparable relations between Japam and Manchou-
kuo.
In Nanking, it is believed thnt the reorganization of the
cabinet will not have any effect upon Japan's established policy.
In America, it is bcing seriously regarded. For example,
President Roosevelt reportedly held a secret oonference with Secre-
tary of State Hull and other naval and military authorities Jesterday
to discuss the problems pertaining to Japan. It seems as if the Navy
Department is especially interested in the change of the Japanese
cabinet.
According to a dispatch from Shanghai, the formation of
the Tojo cabinet has caused considerable confusion within Chungking.
Comment on current events:
Topic "The resignation of Konoye's cabinet":
The record was not very clear to make possible a transaltion in detail.
It was mentioned that the cabinet was the shortest in the history of
Japan, but in its achievements it was second to none. In fact, the
commentator praised it as having successfully manifested its charac-
teristics as a war-time cabinet and began elucidating upon the various
domestic and foreign war preparation measures enforced by the cabinet.
He boasted of how the cabinet succeeded in enacting defensive measures
against the anti-Japanese encirclement and of the great progress made
in the creation of a new order in East Asia, both economically and
politically. He talked about the freezing act enacted by America and
England and how the said act is back-firing on them in East Asia. As
a conclusion, he mentioned how America and England are trying to
alienate Japan from the Axis powers and emphasized thst this change
of cabinet will in no way effect the established policies of Japan.
Next week's program.
Jap anese music.
Tomorrow's program.
Japanese national anthem.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZK Program
Date 10/19/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles
(Record not very good)
News:
The Tojo cabinet was completely organized yesterday
afternoon and following its first meeting, Premier Tojo, in en inter-
view with news reporters, made known the policy of the new cabinet.
He made a similar statement over JoAK station that evening. (An
electrical transcription of the speech followed, but was very bad).
In it, he stated that Japan's fixed policies--namely, the accomplish-
ment of the China incident and the creation of a new order in East
Asia--will be carried out and that the relations with the Axis powers
will be maintained. He also asked for the whole-hearted support of
the nation, stating that there is nothing that cannot be overcome with
determination.
Similar statements were made by Foreign Minister Togo
and Navy Minister Shimada.
The following appointments were also made:
Naoki Hoshino as secretary-general of the cabinet.
Masayuki Tani as chief of the information bureau
Eiichi Moriyama as director of the bureau of legislation.
Premier Tojo yesterday visited Ise Shrine to report his
appointment as premier and returned this afternoon by plane.  He
Immediately visited Yasukuni Shrine and Meiji Shrinc.
The nation is placing great confidence in the new
cabinet and is expecting the new cabinet to carry out the established
policies. Editorials of the Tokyo Nichi-Nichi and Asahi Shimbun were
read, but were indistinct.
In Germany, the formation of the new cabinet is being
looked upon favorably as an indication that Japan's relations with the
Axis powers will be strengthened all the more.
In Italy, the new cabinet is being regarded as a pro-
Axis one.
In Britain, political circles are showing signs of per-
turbation and will keenly watch Tojo's future policies.
In America, the government is not as perturbed as in
Britain because of her belief that Tojo will not carry out policies
that will aggravate the relations between the two countries.
News about Japanese troops operating in the neighbor-
hood of Ichang.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
News about the emperor's visit to Yasukuni Shrine.
Something about Japanese research mission reaching Hanoi.
Something about the actual demarcation of the border between
Thailand and French Indo-China taking place tomorrow.
News of the Russo-German war. Achievements of the German
troops in the regions of Vyazma and Bryansk were mentioned and German
troops reportedly were bombarding Moscow with heavy artilleries.
News about a German submarine sinking three British ships,
totalling 60,000 tons, some time during the past week. Ships repor-
tedly were returning from America.
Something about Leningrad being imperiled.
Something about German economic authorities meeting in Rome.
Comment on current events:
Topic "The new order in East sia and Europe":
The talk, as indicated by the title, primarily concerned with the pro-
gress being made by Germany and Italy in Europe and Japan in East
Asia in the creation of the new order. The achievements made by the
Japanese troops were outlined and the great developments that were
made in the wake of their victories were emphasized--namely, their so-
called work of reconstruction being made in North China and Manchoukuo.
In regard to the European situation, Germany's imminent victory against
Russia was stressed, and it was mentioned that Germany today has
gained control of the great economic resources of Europe. This, the
commentator termed, will eventually lead to the downfall of Britain,
because hmerica's aid, thus far, has been nothing but talk and will
continue to be so in view of Amorica's serious defccts. He summarized
the present situation as the "have not" nations creating a new order,
which is being opposed by the "have" nations.
Japanese music.
Tomorrow's program
Japanese national anthem

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
tation JZK Program
Date 10 ,20/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles
(Recorder's note: Bad static this evening)
Something about idmiral Shimada, minister of navy, making a
radio speech on the might of October 19. An electrical transcription
of his speech was rebroadcast, but static made it impossible to trnns-
late. The gist of his t alk appeared to be his promise to carry out the
fixed policies of Japan.
Something about Premier Tojo addressing the members of the war
ministry and stressing the necessity of carrying out the fixed policies
of Japan.
Something about the transfer of business carried out between
tho in-coming and the out-going ministers.
Something about the formation of the new cabinet being re-
ceived in Germany and Italy as an indication that Japan will streng-
then her relations with Italy and Germany all the more.
Something about America being greatlr affected by the reor-
ganization of the cabinet.
Something about the Japanese troops operating in Hunan Pro-
vince.
nother news about the Japanese troops operating somewhere in
China.
Something about tomorrow, October 21, being the 3rd anniver-
sary of the victorious entry of the Japanese troops into Canton.
News of Taiyo Maru's departure from Kobe for Honolulu by way
of Yokohama today, October 20.
Something about the Soviet government starting the transfer
of its government agencies to an uncesignated city.
Something about German mochanized troops advancing close to
Moscow and encircling the city, and the fall of Odessa.
Something about the inefficiency of production in Chungking.
News of the week:
News about the formation of Tojo cabinet.
News about the Autumn festival of the Yasukuni Shrine.
News about the granting of honors to the veterans of
the current war.

=== Page 52 === (confidence 1.00)
News of the army's shake-up of personnel.
News about the shortening of school term for university
students.
(News at this stage practically inaudible)
News of the establishment of an airway between Palao and
Timor.
Nows of the actual demarcation of the bordor between
French Indo-China and Thailand.
Japanese music.
Japanese national anthem.

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZK Program
Date 10/21/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles.
News: (Record not very good)
An electrical transcription of Fireign inister Togo's
talk over the JOAk station last night was rebroadcast, but
condition was very poor. In it, Foreign Minister Togo urged
the nation to cooperate with the government in overcoming this
crisis and stressed Japan's intention to preserve world peace.
Something about Premier Tojo calling the employees of
the cabinet together on the morning of October 19 and urging
them to do their best to overcome this crisis.
The first meetin of the new cabinet was held this
morning. At the meeting, Foreign Minister Togo explained in
detail the reactions of the various nations toward the formation
of the new cabinet in Japan. This was followed by a report from
Finance Minister Kaya in regard to the reaction of the financial
circles.
Some kind of comnent was made in regard to the recent
American government's action ordering all American ships in the
Pacific area to head for the ports of the friendly nations.
(Record was very poor to enable translatin the comment, it
seemed to have been propagandized as a sign of America's per-
turbation in regard to the formation of the new cabinet.)
News about the ebration being held in Canton today
to observe the 3rd anniversary of the victorious entry of the
Japanese troops into Canton.
Something about the Japmese troops operation somewhere
near Peking (?). Achievements of the Japanese troops in this
campaign were reported as 7,216 cnemy troops killed, 4,725
captured, besides many arms and ammunition.
Something about the conclusion of the Japanese troops
operation in Shantun on the 17th, resultin in the killing of
534 enemy troops md the capturing 112 enemy troops and many arms
and ammunition.
Something about the economic conference of Britain,
america and Changking held at Hongkong.
News pertai ning to the Russo-German war. In it, it
was mentioned that a cortain important town was cap tured by the
-1-

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
German troops and that the Moscow radio station stopped broad-
castine since yesterday. Believed to have been destroyed by
the Germans.
Something about Japanese embassy orficials having
evacuated Moscow and gone to Kuibyshev (?).
Something about a report from Ankara stating that
government officias of Moscow monopolizing the railroad to make
their et-away nd stoppin the sale of tickets to civilians.
As a result, civilians are about to revolt in Moscow.
Due to the weakness of Soviet Russia, Fri tain's aid
to Russia fever reportedly is declining. This is because it is
believed that the war can never be made to turn toward her favor,
even if American should enter the war in view of Germany's over-
whelming superior footing in Russia.
In regard to the USs Kearney incident, the newspapers
of Germany are placing the blame on America for provoking the in-
cident throuh the president's "shoot first" order and are
regarding it as an achievement unprecedented in the annals of
his tory.
In regard to this incident, the newspapers of Italy are
claiming that the incident had been planned between Secretary of
Navy Knox and Campbell, Chief of British delegation to Washineton.
That is, they discussed the matter of sinking an American warship
with an American torpedo and exci te the suntiment of the nation
against the Axis powers by claiming that the warship had been sunk
by a German submarine.
Comment on current events:
Topic "A wockly reviow of the diplomatic situation":
Due to furious onslauht of the German troops, the fall of
laoscow has become imminent and Germmy and Italy's creation of
a new order in Europe is about to be accomplishsd. On the other
hand, the creation of a mutual prosperity sphere in East Asia,
which is our country's ideal, is beine firmly furthered. Further-
more, the formation of the new Tojo cabinet is not only of great
significance in the Orient, but ciso to the world, for it
indicates the actual state of our country. Hence, reflecting
the important position of our country, tho formation of the new
Tojo cabinet was reported throughout the world. In this week's
review of the diplomatic situation, I would like to talk about
the repercussion of the various nations in regard to the forma-
tion of this new cabinet and the developments in Europe caused
by Russo-German war. It was on October 18 that the new Tojo's
cubinet was formed and that Premier Tojo made known the govern-
ment's attitude to the world through the JoAk station to the

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
ffect that the accomplishment of the current incident and the
creation of the East Asia prosperity sphere will be persued.
The fact that Premier Tojo, a general in active service, has
decided to hold the three posts of war ministership, home
ministership and premiership concurrently is an indication of
the unification of the . . . . . . . Such being the case, it
can be said that the government's unshakable attitude toward
the current international situation has been perfected. again,
in regard to our country's diplomatic policy, Premier Tojo, in
his official s tatement, explained that the relations with the
friendly nations will be strengthened. Even Forein Minister
Togo stated that the course to be taken by our country has already
been determined and there, hence, is no alternativo but to move
ahead with sincerity. Now. let us consider the repercussion of
the various nations aainst the new cabinet, which lhas been
formed with such unshakable determination. In Germany, the
various newspapers played up the formation of the new cabinet
and showed their friendliness toward the new cabinet, besides
expressing their hope that Axis relations will be strengthened.
In Italy, the various newspapers expressed their satisfaction
toward the fundamental policy of the new cabinet--namely, to
accomplish the creation of the East Asia mutual prosperity
sphere and to s trengthen the relations with the friendly
countries. "ence, Germany and Italy in Europe have expressed
their whole-hearted approval of the new cabinet, and the
prospects of the Axis array, composed of Germany and Italy, who
are creating a new order in Europe, and Japan, who is creating
a new order in East Asia, have come to be very bright. On the
other hand, Britain and America and the other anti-axis nations
have been gravely affected. When the news of the formation
of the new cabinet reached Washington, President Roosevelt
called together Secretary of State Hull and other naval and
military leaders and held an emergency conference. This and
the fact that a military conference was held among Britain,
America, Chungkin and the Dutch East Indies indicate the extent
of their perturbation. Nevertheless, the missi on of the Tojo
cabinet is nothing other than the aco mplishment of the China
incident, the creation of the East Asia mutual prosperity sphere
and the preservation of world peace, and Premier Tojo has merely
urged the nation to cooperate in the accomplishment of this noble
project with an unremitting conviction. Hence, it must be said
to be s trange that the anti-axis nations are so confused now. If
America should awaken from her evil dream of dancin to the sly
schene of Britain and the imploring policy of Chiang Ka1-shek
regine, which is on the verge of destruction, and really appre-
ciate the whole motive of Japan, who rogards the China incident
as a holy war and the creation of the East Asia mutual prosperity
sphere as a conducive toward wodd peace, and liquidate her
ambitious-like attitude toward East Asia, I definitely believe
that the peace of the Pacific, which America most earnestly
desires, will surely be maintained. Now, let us turn our eyes
- 3 -

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.99)
coward the Russo-German war situation. Last week, the atten-
tion of the world was focused upon a rumor that peace is being
negotiated between Germany and Russla. However, contrary to
this rumor, the German Troops' attack on Moscow was intensified
and Odessa finally fell into the hands of the Rumanian and Ger-
man troops. Furthermore, the strengthening of the encirclement
of Leningrad in the north and Moscow in the south resulted in
the evacuation of the Russian government and foreign diplomatic
agencies to Kuibyshev, looo kilometers southeast of Mos cow.
Recent news reports indicate that the Germn troops have
advanced to a point of 90 kilometers away from Moscow. As a
result, it is being predicted that the fall of Moscow might
take place by the end of this month. On the other hand, on
turnin our eyes tow ard the Atlan tic, we find that the USS
Kearny was attacked by a German submarine, last weck. This
incident provoked the sentiment of merica, which flared up
as a criticism against the government's challenging attitude.
Since the inside story of this incident has been reported in
the news, I believe that you all are well aware of it, but,
as a result of this, the bill pertaining to the arming of
merchant ships was passed in the lower house by a vote of 259
to 138, thus drawing America all the closer into the war.
Lastly, let us look toward Chungking, which, havine practically
lost its independent nature, both economically and militarily,
is manifesting her utmost coquetry toward Britain and America.
However, due to the manifestation to accomplish the China
incident by the newly formed Tojo cabinet, she is showin signs
of considerable perturbation and is also fearing that aid from
Britain and America might be stopped altogether due to the
developments of the Russo-German war.
Jap anese music.
Domestic news (Tohoku region):
News were from +wate, Hiyagi, Yamagata, Akita ad
Fukushima Prefectures. News from Iwate Prefecture pertained
to the dispatching of a delegation to visit and congratulate
Premier Tojo, a native of Iwate Prefecture. News from Miyagi
Prefecture told of an inaugural meeting of the Cul tural Discus-
sion Federation (Bunka Kyogi Kai) held on October 10 and 1l with
9 representatives from the head office of the National Support
Society and 18 local representatives prescnt. The federation
was formed to control all the cultural societies of the north.
News frorn Yamagata Prefecture included news of the members of
the National Service Agricultural Society, together with 1,600
students, helping the farmers in the harvesting of their crops,
of the wounded soldiers' athletic meet sponsored recently, of
the citizens of Takeoka-machi worshipping at the Hachiman Jingu
Shrine for the success of the Japanese troops and of the new
road that has been opened between Iwako and Kamo.
一4-

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.98)
News from Akita Prefecture mentioned the donation of large
quantities of pumpkins for the making of wafers to be sent
to the soldiers at the front. News from Fukushima Prefecture
mentioned the establishment of a new factory for the produc-
tion of a substi tute for hemp and the production of a motion
picture picturing thc various process of production. In
regard to tho news from Aomori Prefecture, it was mentioned
that women were taking the place of meh in the various phase
of work connected with the making and shipment of dried
cuttle-fish, indicating the great shortage of male labor.
Tomorrow's program
Japanese national anthem
- 5 -

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.96)
DeR
2
FE
Vsinion of
Federal Bureau of Junestigation
FAC EASTERN AFFAIRS
Anited States Department of Justirt
ashington, D.U.
1941
Denartment of State
November 14, 1941
PERSONAL AND 
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
NOV I 1 1941
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
For your information and as of possible
394.76/67
interest I am transmitting herewith translated transcripts
of radio broadcasts from Tokyo, Japan for the period
894.76
17, 1941 to September 25, 1941.
CURRELAT
Sincerely yours,
DEC 1 1941
Le. 2Aoover
Enclosures
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
S
/LH
4-1941
FILF
Justise Depactmour Guidelnnes, 1.27.1984
R1G
5.18.1984

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.98)
Station JZK Progran.
Dato 9/17/41
Frequoncy 15,160 Kilocyclcs.
Nows:
Various colebrations are boing planned in
Japan and Manchoukuo for the observation of the tenth
anniversary of the Manchurian incident on Septomber 18.
A neeting of tho Privy Council was hold
this morning, at which time President Suzuki of the Plen-
ning Board explained the various mobilization regulations.
To help in the education of Japanese chil-
dren abroad (do not know if it includes Hawaii), a society
for the pronotion of overseas oducation has been forned.
Tho new socioty will be a study of the various educational
probloms of tho children abroad.
Achiovements of the Japanose troops operating
in North China, as of Soptember 14--Killed 2,781 enomies
Cep tured 1,710 enemies and many arns and anmunitions.
Achievenents of tho Japanoso troops orerat-
ing in the northern region of Kiangsu Province, us of Sep-
tembor 14--Killed 550. Captured 40 enenies, 291 rifles and
man other arms and armunition.
According to a dispatch fron Hongkong: Chiang
Kai-shek is desporately trying to be favored at the Moscow
conference and is instructing his representativos in Wash-
ington and London as well as in Chins to call on the heads
and ropresentatives of tho respeetive govornmonts. Far.
thormore, Chiang Kai-shek reportedly sont a messago to
Presidont Roosevelt on Sopteiber 12.
According to a report fron Macno, Chiang Kai-
shok is dosperatoly trying to roconcile tho Chinoso Rod
Arny in view of tho great docrease in the fighnting strength
of the Chinese army, but it is believed that reccncilintion
will be impossiblo.
According to a dispatch from Washington, it
has been roported that England and imerica has docided
to supply Soviet Russia with sevoral hundred fighting
planes in accordance with the agroonent to aid Soviot
Russia.
News pertaining to Russo-Cerman var (Par: of
nows died out complotuly to nako translation impossib..e).
According to a comvunique issued by the Ita-
lian lHigh Command, the Gerran troops, cooporating with
-1

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.98)
the allied air force of Italy and Germany, on Soptomber
14 and 15 attacked and pushod back the British troops at
.........in North frica. In this battle, the allied nir
froco of Italy and Germany roportedly shot down 12 Bri..
tish planes and also raided Tobruk.
According to a dispatch fron Cairo, German
and Italian planes raided Cairo on September 16 for the
first tine in this war, lalling 39 and wounding ahout 100.
In retaliation, Britain has announced that the Britisin
air force will raid Rome.
according to a dispatch from Washington, tho
Department of State yesterday annouiced a new interpre.
tation of tho noutrality law in view of tho presidont's
"shhot first" order. According to this intorprotation,
Amorican ships can transport war matorials to any port,
thus making it possible for merican ships to carry war
materials for Chungking to as far ns Burmn. In view of
this fact, it is bolieved that tho activities of the eri-
can navy will be conducted throughout the seven seas.
According to a dispatch from Washington, the
American government has decided to buy up all tho nan-
ganeso and othor war uaterials fron the Philippines in
accordance with tho Grady's roport.
According to a dispatch from Sofiya, the Bul-
garian governnent today ropliod to Soviet Russia's pro-
test, stating that Sovict Russia has misintorpreted
Bulgaria's action and that Soviet Russia has no ground to
protost against Bulgaria bocause Bulgaria has no inten.
tion to attack Soviet Russia. Due to the rejection of
Soviet Russia's protest, it is belioved that tho relaticns
between Bulgaria and Sovict Russia have become very acuve
and are on the vergo of bein brokon off.
According to a dispatclh iron Tohran, the
Iranian governnent yostorday announced the abdication of
Shah Rizn Khan Pahlevi due to ill health and asconsion
of the eldest son, Shah Pur Riza, to the throno. in-
other roport statos that tho abdication took placo im-
modiately after the British and Russian troops merched
into Tehran.
According to a dispatch fron Damas, the De
Gaullists, prosently occupying Syria, yosterday an-
nouncod the independenco of Syria and olocted.......
as president of Syrinn Ropublic. Its now cabinet is ex-
pected to bo organized by Septomber 23.
…2-

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
According to a dispatch from Vichy, Gen.....
....., Comriander of the French troops at Dakar, arrived
yesterday to discuss important mattors portaining to D-kar
with the Vichy authorities.
Notification of chango of timo schedule from Sep-
tember 24:
4:30-4:40 P.M.
Nows in Japanese
4:40-4:50
11
Cormont on current events
4:50-4:58
it
Domostic news and music
1:50 P.M. Every Saturday Children's Hour.
Besides, news, corment on current ovents,
childron's hour nd mjsic will be boardcast during the fol-
lowing hours:
1:50-2:30 A.11.
5:00.5:30"
8:50-10:00"
1:20-2:30 P.1.
5:55-7:00
11
9:00-9:30
11
Comment on current events:
Topic "The condition of Chungking": Tho
talk was of tho usual length and pertained to devastating
air raids of the Japanese air force, explaining what was
destroyod cn cortain days and how thorough these air raids
were. It rmentioned the impossibility of the attempt of
England and merica to reconstruct the air force of Chung-
king and the lack of spirit mong the authorities of
Chungking, who aro afraid to reveal this spirit outwardly
because of sovere penalties. It doseribed tho pitiful
condition in Chungking caused by the shortago of food-s suffs
and the rise of pricos and concluded that the movement for
poace is increasing day by day among the citirens.
Japanese music.
Donostic news (Tokushina, Kagawa, Ehimo, cnd Ko-
chi Profectures):
News pertained to the training of loaders
of the settlomont of Manchoukuc in Tokushima Prefocture.
the patriotism of a 70 year old woman abalone divor, who
lost her son in this current incident, the production of
new woodon articles in Kagawa Prefocture, tho formation of
a soldiers reliof mission in Kagawa Prefocture, the ostab-
lishient of training courso in automobilo repairing at
Kagawa Normal School for tue purposo of producing youths
for sorvico in Manchoukuo, the increase of soik production
in Ehime Profecture, the plan fop the training of rnon
to direct and oncourage the farners of Kochi Prefocture,
the ∞lebration of shrine festivals in Tokushima and Ehino
Prefecturos and the cultivation of South Son Tsland fruius
-3..

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.96)
in Kochi Prefocture.
Japanese music.
Talk on the progross of lianchoukuo and tho groat-
er East sia mutual prospority sphere by....., Endo, vice-
president of East Asia Fedoration (?): The talk was com-
posed of the sano old line of propaganda, stating how Man-
choukuo had doveloped in tho short period of ten years
through the help of Japan and how it is today playing an
important rolo as a meiber of tie gruator mutual prosperity
sphere of East .sin. It furtlier states how Japan liad come
to forn Manchoukuo under the principle of universal con-
cordia, which, the spoaker clained, is wholly different
from the policy of oxploitation end opprossion carried on
previously by tho Europoan and merican nations. The
speaker dofincd the principle of universal concordin as a
principle werking toward the establislment of ritual pres-
perity and uxistonce to unable all peoplo to live in con-
tentment and pence. Then, tho spoaker tried to justify
Japan's action in China by olaborating upon what Japan
las done and is doing in Manchoukuo and terned the action as
a constructive campaign. He, then, elaboratod upon tho
economic, political and racial collaboraticn now being
fernented among Japan, China and lHanchoukuo and uxplained
the detormination of these nations tc ostablish the grentor
East sia xmutual prcspority sphero.
Netification of change of tins schodule fron
Septembor 24.
Progrm for tomorrew
Japanese naticnal on then.
.4-

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZK Program
Date 9/18/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles
Nevs:
To celebrate the tenth anniversary of the Manchurian
incident today, various ceremonies were held in Japan. To commemor-
ate tho anniversary, the nowspapers of Tokyo, too, published editori-
als stressing the significance of the Manchurian incident. The Tokyo
Nichi-Nichi, for example, claimed thit the Manchurian incident was
the first step toward the creation of a peaccful sphere and stated
that this was accomplished in spite of the threats and coercion of
the European and American nations. On the other hand, the Yomiuri
Shimbun stated that the European and American nations, which are still
refusing to recognize Manchoukuo today, cannot help but notice the
brilliant development of Manchoukuo as a nation and predicted a
brilliant future for the greater East Asin mutual prospcrity sphore.
To commemorate the tenth anniversary of the Manchurian
incident, tho East Asia Federation of Japan today spensored a lunch-
con at tho Imperial Hotel. About 27o dignitaries attended. At the
luncheon General Sonjuro Hayashi, Director of the General Affairs
Division, expressed his hope that Manchoukuo will make a groater
progross and that Japan and Manchoukuo will work hand in hand for the
croation of the greater East Asia mutual prosperity sphero and con-
tribute toward the rostoratien of world peace.
The Emperor yestorday sent a message of condolence to
President Roosevelt, sympathizing with the recent death of the Presi-
dent's mother.
The Navy Ministry today announced the promotion and
appointment of Vicc-Admiral Seimu(?) Toyoda to the rank of Admiral
and Commandant of the Kure Naval Base, besides the appointment of
Vice-Admiral Masaharu Shibuno (?) as a member of the suprene war
council and Vice-Admiral Seiichi Iwamura as Director of thc Naval
Technical Department. Peraonal history of Admiral Toyoda--native of
Oita Prefecture. Graduated from thc Naval Academy in 1905. Is a
classmate of Foreign Minister Teyoda. Served in the current incident
as Supreme Minister of the Japanese Flect in China waters and re-
cently as Director of the Naval Technical Department.
According to a dispatch from Saigon, Governor-Goneral
De Coux of French Indo-China, in an interview with reporters on Septem-
bor 17, oxpressed the following opinion: A month and a half have
passed sincc the Japanese troops have been landed. During this in-
terval, a very satisfactory condition has been brought about through
-1-

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.98)
the cooporative spirit of the French authorities and the Japanese
authorities. Due to the short pericd of preparation for the enforce-
ment of the agreement, various difficulties were confronted, but the
fact that these difficulties were overcome indicates the faithful
observance of the agreement and the cooperation of the French Indo-
Chinose Governmont. The economic and political coercion of the ABCD
bloc against French Indo-China reportodly has been strengthened of
late, but we are intending to tako the necessary action according to
the orders of the Vichy Government. Shortly we will welcome a spccial
envoy from Japan and development of the relations between the two
countries will be contered around Saigon. However, the transfer of
the site of the government to Saigon is at present not being con-
sidered.
According to a dispatch from Shanghai, the Chinese re-
portedly have lost two-thirds of their original 1700,000 regulars,
which they had at the outbreak of the incident, due to successive
defeats. And although they are exaggerating that they have a mili-
tary strength of 5,Ooo,O00 regulars, they actually do not have even
2,000,000 and since the majority of them have been forcibly conscrip-
ted they have no military discipline and many cf them are deserting.
Due to this forcible conscription, the quality of the Chineso troops
recently has declined and thoy are showing a grcat lack of fighting
spirit. Consequently the Chungking Government repertedly has amended
her forcible conscription policy.
According to reports ruaching London, the Russian
troops are facing a serious situntion at Leningrad and in the Ukraine
due to the great progress mado by the German troops. If the reports
are true that the Gorman air force and the Finnish infantry are
causing considerable damage to the Russian Baltic flect, it can be
expected that great progross will be made in the north sector by the
German troops shortly. Furthormore, the fact that Bulgarin is nego-
tiating for the purchase of six Itulian warships and the report that
the Axis warships, which had been stationed along the Netherlands
coast, have been shifted into the Black Sea is evidence that Germany
intends to attack Crimea.
According to a communique issued by the German High
Command, German submarines sank six British merchant ships in the
North Atlantic, while the German air force on the night of September
16 seriously damaged two British merchant ships off the const of
England. Besides, the German air force on the night of September 15
raided the British air field near Cairo and caused considerable dam-
agc.
According to a cormunique issued by the Italian High
Command, Italian troops on Soptomber i7 attacked Tobruk and caused
considerable damage.
-2-

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.99)
According to a dispatch from Berlin, Japanese Ambassa-
dor to Germany Oshima, accompanied by his staff-members, reportedly
will visit the Schimoschew (?) region to make a study of the condi-
tions in Germany. He will also stop over at Breslau, where an ex-
hibition of Japanese culture (?) is being held at present. In addi-
tion, Japanese Ambassador to Turkey Kurihara arrived in Sofia from
Istanbul on September 16 and left for Berlin on September 17.
Accerding to a dispatch from Berlin, King Boris of
Bulgaria will visit Hitler shortly and German Ambassador tc Turkey
Von Papen repertedly returned to Berlin. This is an indication that
the Dardanelles problcm is going to be discussed.
According to a dispatch from Rome, rebellion has
broken cut in certain regions of Iran wi th the entry of the British
and Soviet troops into Tehran.
According to a dispatch from Berlin, the German Minis-
ter to Iran reportedly is negotiating with the Government of Iran
for the ovacuation of German subjocts from Iran, and Britain and So-
viet Russia are propagandizing this move of the Minister as some
sinister scheme.
Japanese music.
Comment on current events:
Topic "The Tonth Anniversary of the Manchurian Inci-
dent": (Condensed) Ten years have passed since the outbreak of the
Manchurian incident and Manchoukuo has made a great economic, politi-
cal, and cultural progress within the ten years. The Manchurian in-
cident was brought about by the fact that conditions, caused by the
European and American nations, became so serious as to threaten Ja-
pan's interests in Manchoukuo, which she had fought for in the Russo-
German war. These conditions were brougit about by the Instigation
of anti-Japanism among the Chinese, the oppression of Japan through
such means as the Naval Disarmament Treaties, the League of Nations,
and their restriction of imports. Thus did the Manchurian incident
break out and it can be said that it was the first opposition to the
Versailles Treaty, which in turn led to ths awakening of Germany and
Italy. The following year Manchoukuo was formed through the wishes
of the people and recognized immediately by Japan. However, the
European and Anerican nations regarded this as a puppet government of
Japan and intensified their oppression against Japan. This led to
Japan's withdrawal from the Loague of Nations and the starting of her
venture of croating a now order in East Asia. Today, Manchoukuo has
developed into a great nation and is recognized by about a dozen
countries. This is solely duc to the fact that the principle of
-3-

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.98)
Manchuukuo is to enable all people to live in contentment and peace.
Thus it can be said that this fact alone caused Italy and Germany to
awaken and fight for a new order in Europs. As for Japan, she
strengthened her effort for the overthrow of the influence of the
European and American nations and for the formation of a new order
in East Asia as the oppression and coercion of the European nations
became intense. Neverthelcss, the European and American nations
tried to disrupt peacc and regain their influence in East Asia by
inciting Chiing to fight against Japan, thus bringing about the cur-
rent incident. In spite of this, the Nanking government was formed
and this has resulted in the strengthening of the movement for the
creation of a greater East Asia mutual prosperity sphere. Hence,
Japan today is striving for the independence and self-sufficiency of
East Asia.
Japanese music.
Tomorrow's program.
Japanese national anthem.
###
-4-

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZK Program
Date 9/19/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles
(Recorder's note: Conditions too pcor for satisfactory
recording.)
News:
Something about Japanese troops' operation in China.
(There were three news items in regurd to the operation of the Japan-
ese troops, but record was toc poor to make possible any translation.)
Something about Chungking.
(Recorder stopped recording)

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZK Program
Date 9/21/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles
Broadcast of a baseball game.
News:
After only threc days since the starting of the Hunan
operation, our troops have dealt a decisive blow upon the enemy in
the eastern regions around Lake Tungting.
According to a conmunique issued by the military
headquarters of the Japanese troops in South China this morning, our
troops yestorday started a drive against the enemy troops along the
lower estuary of Sikiang River and are making stoady progress.
At 5:10 p.m. (Japan time) today, the long-awaited
eclipse of the sun took place. The phenomenon lasted about 3 minutes.
The Tokyo Bix Six University Baseball League was of-
ficially opened this morning at the Jingu Stadium.
According to a dispatch from Nanking, a conference of
the Japanese consuls-general in China and the representatives of the
East Asia Bureau will be held tomorrow at the Japanese Embassy to
discuss problems pertaining to the strengthening of the Nanking Gove
ernment. The conference of consuls-general will be held from Septem-
ber 22 to 24, while the conference of representatives of the East
Asia Bureau will be held on Septembor 24 and 25.
According to a dispatch from Macao internal rupture
within the Chungking regime appears to have taken place due to the
protraction of the incident and the ever-changing international situ-
ation. That is, the movement for peace reportedly has become strong
and a severe inflation is taking place due to the unrestricted issu-
ance of currencies.
According to a dispatch from Vichy, Japanese Ambassa-
dor to France Kato returned to Vichy yesterday after having conferred
with Japanese Ambassador to Germany Oshima for the past five days.
According to a dispatch from Berlin, the DNB states
as follows in regard to the ain of the continued operation of the
German troops in Ukrainia even after tho fall of Kiev: The German
troops will continue thcir operation until all the well-trained So-
viet troops are either captured cr annihilated, until the war materi-
als of Soviet Russia are either captured or destroyed, until the
-1-

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.98)
strength of the Soviet's war industries are so completely destroyed
that Soviet Russia will not be able to conduct another large-scale
war, until the transportation facilities, especially the air force,
are completely destroyed and the connection between the armed forces
and industries as well as between the . . . . . . and industries is
disrupted and until the central organs have been so destroyed as to
make impossible the smooth movement of the administrative organs.
According to a communique issued on September 20 by
the Russian High Command, 8,500 German planes, besides numerous others
unaccounted for, havo been destroyed by Russia since the beginning of
the war.
According to a dispatch from London, opinion is being
voiced to the offect that England and America's aid to Soviet Russia
may become very difficult duo to the fall of Kiev. In regard to
this, officlal sources in Britain voiced the following opinion yes-
torday: If it is true thes the German troops have completed their
connection in the regions east of Kicv, have captured Poltava, and
have isolated the Crimean Peninsula, the German troops in Ukraine
are facing a sorious danger and if tho German troops' strategy
should succced England and America's route of aid to Sovict Russia,
through tho Persian Gulf and Iran, will be completely cut off.
According to a dispatch from New York, the American
Government is considerably worried in vicw of the recent reports from
London and Berlin reporting the sericus danger confronting Russia,
and this anxioty has been greatly increased with thc reports rcveal-
ing the fall of Kiev. The reperts from London are especially possi-
mistic and are stating that since the loss of tanks and men suffered
by Sovict Russia is great, Soviet Russia will either taste a decisive
defeat or conclude a separate poace with Gormany if England and
America do not speed up their aid to Sovict Russia. This may be
England's propaganda tc accelerate America's aid to Soviet Russia and
speed America's ontry into the War, but the objective situation
proves that Russia is confronting a serious danger. However, in re-
gard to planes, tanks, and guns, the presont production power and
transportation capacity of England and America will not be able to
augment the loss suffered by Russia, regardless of whether they stand
on their heads. Hence, should Soviet Russia conclude a separate
peace with Germany, England will be the first country to be imperiled
for she will again be confrented with the invasien of her Island by
Gormany. At the same time, her position in Iran...........and Egypt
will be greatly endangered, for the pessbility of siding with Germany
will be greatly increased.
According to a dispatch from London, it appears as if
England and America have arrived at a temporary plan to aid Soviet
Russia as a result of her great loss suffered recently. In regard to
this, Averill Harriman, Head of the American Delegation to Moscow,
.2

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
tated as follows yesterday: The British and American delegations
have reached an agreement to leave aside all general matters pertain-
ing to the aid of Soviet Russia and speed up the supplying of air-
planes and airplane materials to Soviet Russia. Besides, it has been
decided to givo unlimited aid to Soviet Russia in regard to other
materials.
According to a dispatch from London, the scheduled
discussion between Hitler and King Boris of Bulgaria is being re-
garded in British circles as a matter of great significance. In re-
gard to this, a newspaper of London yesterday published a report that
King Boris has finally decided to take part in the war on the side of
the Axis powors and listed the terms under which Bulgaria is to take
part in the war. Although this report is somewhat difficult to be-
lieve, Bulgaria's participation in the war on the side of the Axis
powers is being regarded as only proper in view of her past pro-Axis
attitude.
According to a dispatch from Sofia, it has been re-
ported that England might work upon Turkey, in view of the favorable
turn of the Russo-German war toward Germany. In other words, England
reportedly is planning to destroy the routes leading from Turkey into
the Near East due to the possibility of the German troops using theso
routes to threaten British positions in thc Near East. She reported-
ly has a large concentration of British troops along the Turkish bor-
der and has even claimed that it would not be impossible to take
Ankara within a month.
According to : dispatch from Berlin, the Finnish
Minister of Commerce arrived in Berlin on September 19 and in an
interview with a Domei correspondent he stated as follows in regard
to the political-economic problems of Finland: If Finland's aim of
repossossing her lost territories is achieved, there is no need for
Finland to remain in the war any longer. However, the report that a
separate peace between Finland and Russia is being negotiated is
absolutely groundloss. In regard to our trade with Germany, it today
comprisos half our total trade and we hope to increase this all the
more. If Finland's wish in rogard to the new order in Europe were to
be expressed, it is the establishment of a United States of Europe,
making possiblc the conducting of trade freely among the European
statcs.
According to a dispatch from New York, the report that
the Pope in the Vatican City rejected President's request to term
the war against Germany as a crusade reportedly shocked the American
Government considerably. According to a reliabls source, President
Roosevelt sent a lengthy message to the Pope and emphasized that the
-3-

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
war against Germany was a war for the cause of righteousness, besides
promising to do everything after the conclusion of the war to have
the principle of religious freedom recognized in Russia. In regard
to this, the Pope made a very appropriite reply and absolutely re-
fused the sugcestion. The renason why President Roosevelt sent such
a message to the Pope was to impress the Catholic followers in Ameri-
ca and make the Catholic followers of the world take part in the war
against Germany.
Japanese music.
Comment on current events;
"Topic "Signific nce of the Hunan Operation": The
talk pertained to the achievements of the Japanese troops and signi-
ficance of the campaign, which was cxplained as the annihilation of
the main fighting strength of Chungking and the cutting off of her
supplies from the north. This, the cormentator claimed, will contri-
bute greatly towards the strengthening of the Nanking government. In
other words, the Japanese beliove that this campaign will be the
decisive campaign resulting in the downfall of Chungking and the
accomplishment of which will nullify all foroign aid to Chungking.
Japanese music.
Notification of change of time schedule.
Tomorrow's program.
Japanese national nthen.
###
-4-

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
tion JZK Program
ate 9/23/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles
Japanese music.
Notification of change of time schedule from September 24.
News:
Japanese troops operating in Hunan Province are making
steady progress.  Their achievements to date are as follows: 7,106
enemy troops killed, 816 captured, besides numerous arms and ammuni-
tion.
According to a dispatch from the Central China front,
our military air force on the afternoon of September 22 raided Chong-
sha and caused considerable damage to the military establishments
and troops concentrated there.
Japanese troops operating in Chekiang and Kiangsu
Provinces are making steady progress. To date, they have killed 120
enemy troops and have taken nunerous arms and anmunition.
The Japanese troops' campaign to establish peace zones
along the lower estuary of the Yangtze River is progressing smoothly.
The Japanese troops' landing in Northern French Indo-
China was conducted for the purpose of cutting off the supply route
of Chungking, while the landing of the Japanese troops in Southern
French Indo-China was to strengthen this aim. Hence, Chungking, to-
day, is being left with the Burma route only. In view of this fact,
the economic relations between French Indo-China and Japan are being
groatly strengthened and this trend has been accelerated all the more
with the withdrawal of British ships.
After concluding his discussion with Japaneso authori-
ties in Saigon, Governor-Gonoral De Coux left for Hanoi on Soptember
21. Prior to his departure, he made a broadcast in regard to the
economic condition of French Indo-China and explained that the eco-
nomic situation there is taking a decided turn for the better due to
Japan's cooperation.
The Emperor today obeerved the All Imperial Ancestors'
Day with a solemn ceremony at the Imperial Sanctuary.
The Bureau of Decorations today make public the list of
-1-

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
chose to be rewarded with decorations by the Emperor for having
rendered distinguished services in the current incident. 92l are
expected to be honored with the Order of the Golden Kite.
According to a dispatch from Bangkok, England, who is
attempting to disrupt the peace of East Asia, has greatly strengthened
her coercion against Thailand and besides constructing new air fields
and fortresses she reportedly has greatly increased the strength of
her troops in Malaya and Burma. She reportedly has from 400 to 500
planes in this area.
According to a communique issued by the German High
Command, the German air force yesterday sank three Russian cruisers
and several merchant ships, besides seriously damaging four warships
and two merchant ships.
According to a dispatch from Moscow, the Russian Gov-
ernment reportedly issued an order forbidding those who had evacuated
Moscow since the outbreak of the War to return to Moscow until fur-
ther notice. Even if they were to return, they will not be given
ration tickets. This indicates the danger Moscow is facing before
the onslaught of the German troops.
According to a dispatch frem London, considerable
confusion has cropped out in London during the past several days due
to the decisive defeats of the Russian troops in the south sector.
Although views to the effect that England should threaten Germany
from behind at this time are being voiced, it is believed that
England has not the power to do it.
According to a comnunique issued by the German High
Command on September 22, German submarines raided a convey of British
merchant ships and sank 13 of thom, totaling 82,500 tons, besides
seriously damaging another with torpedos.
According to a DNB report, 273,000 tons of British
ships have been sunk by Germany from September 13 to 20. Besides,
judging from the anncuncement mado by the Navy Department of America
to the effect that thore are only 24 British ships in American docks
for the purpose of repairs, it can be clearly seen how effective
German attacks are.
According to a special communique issued by the
Italian High Command, Italian specdboats penetrated fur into Malta
on September 20 and sank four freighters, including a 10,000-ton
freighter loaded with war materials. In this raid, a new Italian
-2-

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
apon reportedly was used. It is believed to be the human-propelled
orpedo, which the Italian Navy has been experimenting with for the
past ten years.
According to a British broadcast intercepted by the
DNB News Agency's station, it is being surmised in Britain that other
German officials, besides Hitler, will take part in the discussion
between King Boris of Bulgaria and Chancellor Hitler and that a great
mobilization is bcing conducted in Bulgaria.
According to a dispatch from Washington, it is be-
lieved that the nullification of the neutrality law wiil be passed
1mmediately after the second lend-lease appropriation has been adopted
(There was something about Secretary of State Hull's interview with
reporter in regard to the noutrality law, but record died down into
noise). In view of the past actions of President Roosevelt, it would
not be strange if the neutrality law is annulled. Furthermore, war
advocates are reportedly greatly disappointed lately because of the
decrease in the sinking of American ships.
Comments on current events;
Topic "First Anniversary of the Landing of Japanese
Troops in Northern French Indo-China": The talk was a review of the
relations between Japan and French Indo-China during the past year.
It started with tho consummation of the agreement between Japan and
France for the landing of Japanese troops in Northern French Indo-
China for the purpose of cutting off thc supply routcs of Chungking.
It then explained the betterment of relations between Japan and French
Indo-China, resulting in the consummation of the trade agreement and
tho joint defense agrecment and attributed the progress made by French
Indo-China to Japans cffort.
Japanese music.
Children's Hour:
This hour was composed of the reading of compositions
written by a first grader, a third grader, a fourth grader, and a
fifth grader of the Kokumin Gakko. The first pertained to the writors
life written in diary form, the second to an old neighbor, whose 3
sons have been called to the front, and the third and fourth per-
tained to some subject found in their textbooks. These compositions
were read primarily for the purpose of stimulating within the children
of Hawaii a fecling of love toward Japan.
Notification of change of time schedule.
Theme song.
###
-3-

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.95)
Station JZK Program
Date 9/24/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles
News: (Condition very poor).
Something about the encircloment of e large Chinese
force in the Lake Tungting region by the Japanese ticoos.
Something about the Japanese troops perating in Cm-
ton Province.
Something about Wong Ct g-rei making a statement of
criticism against the Chungking regime in un interview wish ropersers.
Something about a certain rasion's Minister to Henchou-
kuo presenting his credontials to Emperor dangte.
Somethirg about Japanese Arbassader to France Sato
planning a visit to Borlin and Rome.
News ohout tho Russe-German War. Record toe poor to
make possible any translaticn.)
Something about Fritain's ceercion against Tuurtey.
Something about the Dardanelles was menti ned.
Something about America's sccone Dxa-i ase appropria-
tion.  (Fault in equipment. ace rdins to xesurder' core, at his
point.
Cemment on current evonts:
Topic "Hun Operstion and Scath Frma Spere a r.
The talk centered around the achmevem-nus ef th depaasse troops oper-
atirg in Hunan and Canton Prov nees and evplained the peratuons as
being undertaken for the purpose of cuttinis uif the s uplies to
Chungking. The talk, as a whcle, was hardly audible, rut soaetsing
about America's aid to Chungking was mentloncd and oriticized. In
the talk, the opinion that th suecess of these operations vill load
to the downfall of Chungking was stressed.
Japanese lMusic.
Domestic News (Krnto Districts):
News was fron Tokyo, Kanagawa, Guma, Chiba, and
Shizuoka Prefectures and wes hardly audiblo. Some of the nevs per-
tained to the construction of a cym in Tokyo for the training 
-1-

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.89)
uths, the athletic meet in Yokahama and the National Service Move-
ent in Gumma Prefectures. The rest was not audible.
Japanese national anthem.
(Note: Station signs off earlier than previous to today.)
设非#
-2-

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.96)
tion JZK Program
te 9/25/41
requoncy 15,160 Kilocycles
News:
Before the furious onslaught of the Japanese trcops
operating in Hunan Province, the enemy troops are fclding up, especia
ly in the southwestern region of Lake Tungting, Pesides, ascording to
a communique issued by the Japanese military headguarters, the Janan-
ese military air force raided Clangsha yestorday and caused consider-
abie damages. (News interfered with by suatic). The loss of Hunan
Province will be a great blow to Chungking: inasmuch as Hunan is re-
garded as the greatest food produeing region of China.
The For-ign Ministry has Foeided to sponsor a lunsheon
to commemorate the fires anniversary of tie Tri-partite Allivrce on
September 29. Invitations reportedly have been sent cut to he
representatives of the Axis powers in Tokyo
Something choue she Head of the Heval Sechnical Deport
ment (?) making a repert te the Emperer. (Fesord nte: fered with by
static).
Something about a Dr. Kamatari (?) to a sist n the
establishment of a research laboratory for the stuay o: the apanese
spirit in Berlin.
Something about Favel offieor of a p in nation
visiting the Navy Ministry today to pay his call o coyatosy. (The
warship, of which he has comman, appears to be under repais ia Osaka)
Something about she so man Porsign Mipoary voportedly
criticizing President Rocsevelt's sra emer in gaei o tre acing
of the Pink Star as irrelevant and she Ir setent s stsompt so drag
America into the War.
According to a dispatch frem Berlin, the Get an treops
iron ring of encireloment around Leningrad is graduiliy being tigateu
and, at the same time, the German troeps in the regions cass ef Kaev
are making steady progress (record interrered with by static).
Something about a view to attact Germany from benind
being voiced in London.
Something about the Lulgarian Governmens's re using
the reports perteuning to her as groundless. (Record very pror)

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.94)
Something about Argentina. (Record very poon, but the
hews seems to be a criticism of America's action toward Argontina.)
Comment on current events:
Tonic "Recent State of Chungking": (Condition very
poor. Practically impossible to make eny cennection.) Judging trom
phrases caught here and there, this talk appears to be pureiy pr pa-
ganda, trying to make the people of Hawaii believe tnat the all 
Chuigking is near an? that the movemert for peace within Chunsking ha:
become stronger. It mentioned something about Amerira's aid to
Chungking lessening because of Russia's tfavcrable position in the
Russo-German War and scm-thing about Japan's determination to create
a new order in East Asia cs being unchslah e.
Jsy anese music.
vapaneso national anthem.
#
…2

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
PS/LH
894.76/67

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.93)
DCK
OVER
Becember
USION OF
1941
194
PERSONAL AND 
AND RECORUS
Honorable Adolf A. Berle,
PADivision of
Assistant Secretary of State
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
11
Department of State
My dear Mr. Berle:
For your information and as of possible interest
I am enclosing herewith translated transcripts of radio
broadcasts from Tokyo, Japan for the period October 22,
76
23, 24 25, and 27, 1941.
894.
Sincerely yours,
.. 2tooven
Enclosures
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
S1941
DFC
3 1941
DECLASE
Justice Depactmeut Guidelns, 1-27.1984
By Y21C
NARS, Date 5.16.4984

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZK Program
Date 10/1/41 10.22-411
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles
News:
Prince Takahito Mikasa was married to Princess Yuriko
Takagi this morning at the imperial palace.
According to a dispatch from Shanghai, Vice-Admiral
Muneichi Koga, commander-in-chief of the Japanese fleet in China
waters, today held his first interview with reporters on board the
Izumo and stated, as follows: I am thinking of doing my best toward
the accomplishment of this holy war. With the world situation becom-
ing more and more complicated every day, I keenly feel that the nation
should realize the necessity to fight this righteous war to the
finish at all cost.
Various hopeful observations are being made by
America, Britain, Chungking and the Dutch East Indies, or the so-
called nations comprising the anti-Jananese encirclement, who have
been more or less affected by the appearance of Tojo's nevw cabinet,
and even in regard to the Japanese-American negotiation, they seem
to think that it will be continued. However, our country's opinion in
regard to the Japanese-American negotiation will never be changed,
because of the existence of a definite point of view that must be
absolutely observed by our country. Although it vould be most de-
sirable if America were to further the negotiation with an understand-
ing of our country's sincerity in regard to the accomplishment of the
China incident and the actual situation in East Asia, the responsi-
bility for the termination of the negotiation must be placed upon
America, so long as she maintains her unreasonable attitude based on
misunderstanding and doubt. Therefore, if there is such a hopeful
observation that the Japanese-American negotiation will be concluded,
it must be said that it depends on the attitude of America. Thus,
our country is calmly watching the movements of America.
The troaty concluded among America, Britain, Soviet
Russia and Japan in l9ll for the protection of fur-seals will become
ineffective from October 22. At the time when this treaty was
signed, there were not more than 140,000 seals. Today, there are
more than 2,200,000 seals. As a result, they are causing consider-
able damages to the fishing industry. Hence, our country, last Octo-
ber, notified the signatory powers her desire to abrogate the treaty
one year hence, the final day falling on today.
According to a dispatch from Hanoi, the Japanese
delegation, headed by Masayuki Yokoyama, sent to make a survey of the
natural resources of French Indo-China, has been making preparations
ever since its arrival in Hanoi, on October 18 with the aid of the
government of French Indo-China. Yokoyama reportedly conferred with
Governor-General De Coux and other high officials today to discuss
the various problems connected with the making of the survey.
-1-

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
According to a report from French Indo-China, the
actual demarcation of the border between French Indo-China and Thai-
land was begun today. The work is expected to be completed by next
March.
According to a dispatch from Hanoi, the Japanese
culture exhibition was opened today in Hanoi. The opening ceremony
was attended by Governor-General Do Coux, Japanese Consul-General
Yukiyama (?) and other high ranking Japn ese and French officials.
According to a dispatch from Chungking reaching
Hongkong, a meeting was held in Chungking to discuss the currency
problem on October 19 between the representatives of Chungking and
those of Britain and America. Due to the difference of opinion, no
agreement reportedly was reached.
According to a communique issued by the German High
Command, the German troops reportedly have captured Dago, an island
strategically located at the mouth of the Gulf of Finland. Con-
sequently, Germany has now obtained completc control of the Gulf of
Finland.
According to a communique issued by the Russian
High Command, the Russian troops admittedly have been withdrawn from
Taganrog, thus threatening the fall of Rostov and enabling the Germans
to assume complete control of the Sea of Azov.
According to a dispatch from London, the opinion
that troops should be sent to continental Europe is being advocated
among the people. However, the government has issued a statement,
stating that the present rate of production of weapons by Britain
and America must be increased from three to four times before it
would be safe to land British troops on the continent to attach Ger-
many.
According to a dispatch from Washington, the
American-owned freighter Bold Venture, flying the Panamanian flag, was
torpedoed off Iceland on October 19. This was followed by the tor-
pedoing of the American flag ship Lehigh off the west coast of Africa
on October 21. Although the crew of the said ship made off safely
in three boats, two of the boats reportedly are missing. Both of
these announcements were made by the maritime commission. As a result
of these sinkings, the nation is wondering what the navy is doing to
prevent these sinkings, In view of the president's order to shoot
first.
According to a dispatch from Washington, President
Roosevelt, in an interview with press reporters on October 21, was
asked as to his plans in regard to America's aid to Russia, to which
he failed to make a definite reply. Although America should :send aid
to Russia in view of her promise made at the Moscow conference, it
appears as if America will make no attempt to send aid to Russia for
the time being, but watch the developments of the Russo-German war.

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.99)
According to a dispatch from Lima, Peru, the Peruvian
Legislative body, yesterday, criticized the action of the American
government, which confiscated the airplenes destined for Peru some
time ago, and threatened to broak off relations depending on the expla-
nation of the American government. The logislative body also accused
America of trying to dominate the South American nations and mono-
polize the South American market.
Comment on current events:
Topic "The course to be taken by Japm":
Yesterday, the reassuring statement made by Foreign inister Togo on
the assumption of his office, and his statement to the offeat that
he will protect the rights of our country with a firm attitude,
accomplish the glorious historical mission of our country and contri-
bute toward world peace certainly must have been reassuring to all of
you, Japanese residing abroad. Welcoming the creation of Tojo's new
cabinet, the nation, today, is marching toward the accomplishment of
the difficulties together with Tojo's cabinet and is manifesting a
fiery determination to further the national prosperity with the
government and people uniting as one and watching for every opportu-
nity. Even the manner of living in the urban as well as in the rural
districts is something reassuring and courageous. This is because the
formation of Tojo's new cabinet has made the mental attitude of the
nations all the more strong and firm. In reporting the reactions of
the various nations, the newspapers of Japan are stating that thero
are not many examples in the history of Janan when the fornation of
a cabinet has drawn the attention of the world to such an extent as
the formation of Tojo's new cabinet. In regard to the foreign policy
of the new cabinet, especially, the nations of the world appear to
have various opinlons, nd I believe the newspapers and radios of the
places where you overseas Japanese are residing are making various
comments in regard to this. Hencc, the stronger the hostile feeling
of that place, where you overseas Japanese are residing, the creater
must be your anxiety in rogard to the course to be taken by Japan.
Today, I would like to center my talk on the strong dctermination ox-
pressed by Tojo's new cabinet, and explain the course to be taken by
our country, Japan. Firstly, let me repeat the first words uttered by
Premier Tojo. He stated, "Our country, today, is facing an unpre-
cedented crisis, but it need not be mentioned that this crisis is a
crisis for the creation of the East Asia mutual prosperity sphere by
our country, Japan, as a power of the world". Even Foreign Minister
Togo explained that instances of a nation making great progress with-
out confronting considerable difficulties are rare in the history of
the world and that Japan's future will be extremely promising if
this critical test is overcome, and this is very true. Hence, the
people of Japan are regarding these words of the foreign minister as
their own words and are doing their utmost in thcir respective line:iof
work for the prosperity of our country. Now, let us consider the
ultimate aim of our country that should be accomplished for the
furtherance of our national prosperity. In regard to this, Foreign
Minister Togo explained, "It is necdless to mention that our country's
ultimate aim is the preservation a nd promotion of world peaco, but
should it involve or even threaten our national security, we must pro-
tect it with a firm attitude and further the accomplishment of our
historical mission. Conscquently, our country's diplomacy, backed by

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
a strong connection with armament preparation, should be based on a
strong and righteous belief that is always focused on the realities,
thus furthering our national prosperity and contributing toward worid
peace", and concluded, "If this point of view is firmly adhered to and
this righteousness is furthered without fear and haste, it is clearer
than looking at a fire that this national crisis wi ll be overcome and
that our country will enjoy a rising fame". Thus did he reveal the
noble ideal sought by our country's diplomacy. Even in the statement
made to the nation by Premier Tojo as minister of war, this firm
determination upon which the new cabinet hns been created is revealed.
In it, he explained that it is of absolute necessity tint the esta-
blished policy for the accomplishmen t of the Incident be maintained
and that the nation and army unito solidly toward this aim in order
to gouge out the roots of the evils of this Incident and make our
country safe forever. Herein, too, is clearly revealed the course to
be taken by our country, Japan, who is striving to accomplish the
Incident, establish the East Asia mutual prosperity sphere, strengthen
her relations with the fri endly nations and thus contribute toward
world peace. In spite of this, some of the hostile nations are
making various speculations In regard to the formation of Tojo's now
cabinet. I believe thnt such malicious observations are being made
in the places where you are residing, but it can be rendily under-
stood that these nations, which are unjustly attompting to obstruct
Japan's national policy, will experience greater fear as Japan's
administrative powers are further strengthened and the aim of her
national policy becomes that ruch clearer. As for the hostile
nations, they may be attompting to chock our country's just progress
for their selfish motive, but none of then is able to, or is bold
enough to, manifest their un-called for challenge against our country
with their own strength. Due to this fact, they are making various
speculations and are being frightened by their own.......... This is
especially true of the Southern nations, which have been attracted to
America's influence, for in spite of the fact that they have lost
their independent nature and are now hardly able to walk by them-
selves, they are still uttering strong words. Nevertheless, these
nations, wilfully interpreting our diplomatic power, which, in all
likelihood, might be put into action under a completo unity between
the supreme command and the state administrators, as a new threat,
are in a state of great confusion. This great confusion of theirs,
it can safely be snid, is certainly the revelation of their evil ambi-
tion, which has made it impossible for them to uppreciate Japan's
intention. Even in regard to the Japanese-American negotiation, if
America awakens from her cvil dream of dancing to the tune of the
policies of Chiang Kai-shek and comes to appreciate the noble spirit
of Japan, who regards the China incident as a holy war and the crea-
tion of the Greater East Asia mutual prosperity sphere as conducive to
world peace, peace on the Pacific, which America desires, will cer-
tainly be maintained. In regard to this, America should be able to
understand reasonably if she takes into consideration her Monroe Doc-
trine, which she is adanantly emphasixing. Consequently, the most
urgent aim of Japan, at present, is the accomplishment of the China
incident, and she, pivoting on the Axis relations, is exerting her
wholo effort to the creation of a new order and a mutual prosperity
sphere in East Asia. Since the intention of Tojo's new cabinet is to
-4-

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
arry out this policy, it is needless to mention that the actions of
the third powers, who are attempting to obstruct this, will be
sternly challenged. Hence, I would like to close my talk today with
the statement made by Minister of Navy Shimada, which is, as follows:
"The imperial navy, while striving for the accomplishment of the
China incident on one hand, is making every preparation to enable her
to cope with the ever-changing situation and from the officers to
the men, they are all carrying out their duties under the august vir-
tues of the emperor. Although the situation, today, is very critical,
it is my belief that the nation can be made secure if the army and
navy and the government and her people cooperate and march toward the
accomplishment of our country's aim".
European Music.
Japanese national anthem.
-5-

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
tation JZK Program
Date 10/23/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles
News:
Special Envoy Yoshizawa and his party will leave
Tokyo on October 28 and leave for Hanoi from Kobe on October 31. A
party, headed by Minister Uchiyama, has already been sent to Hanoi to
prepare the ostablishment of the special onvoy's office. Furthermore,
the following members, it was announced, will comprie ithe party:
Shin Kinoshita, advisor; Tanichiro Yoshida and Noboru Ogawa, consuls-
general; Ginjiro Sumiyoshi, Yukio Tsuchino, Tadayuki Takashima, and
Masaru Nojiri, consuls; Masao. Iida, Maxaaki Araki, Kinichi Takenaka
and Shuntaro Oguro, vicc-consuls; and foreign ministry clerk Naokichi
Katsuda.
Something about ex-Premier Hiranuma being granted an
audience with the emperor (Rccord became suddenly poor).
Something about the announcement of the dates of
departure of the Taiyo Maru, Tatuta Maru and Hikawa Maru made by the
government.
Something about Governor Toyotaro Yuki of the Bank of
Japan and his party arriving in Peking today for a stay till October
27 to make some sort of survey.
Something about Japanose troops starting a new
operation.
Something about Chungking being groatly perturbed and
pleading for greater aid from America in view of the announcement of 
the Tojo'cabinet's determination to carry out Japan's established
policy.
Something about Grady reaching San Francisco and mak-
ing a statenent that Japan's blockade is affecting Chungking seriously
and that the materials being sent through the Burma route are not suf-
ficient to help Chungking.
Something about Chungking plaading with Anerica for
financial nid to prevent her downfall and America refusing to lend her
the whole aiount requested.
Something about the American government announcing
the shifting of the port of entry of America's aid to Russia from
Vladivostok to Archangel.
Something about the New York Times expressing an ob-
jective point of view in rogard to the ABCD encirclement.
Something about Colombia and Peru being dissatisfied
with America's hand in the recent Moxican coup d'eat.
-1-

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
Something about a London paper(?) admitting the
superiority of the Japanese navy and urging the governnent to adjust
her relations with Japan.
Comment on current events:
Topic "The formation of the Tojo cabinet and Chung-
king's confusion": The talk was interfered now and then by static,
making it impossible to translate in detail. It was centered upon the
effect the formation of the Tojo cabinet had upon Chungking, spiced
now and then with a comment on America's aid to Chungking. In other
words, the commentator regarded the confusion of the hostile nations
as strange, in view of the fact that it was known before the formation
of the new cabinet that Japan's established policies would never be
changed. He mentioned the confusion of Chungking and the intensifi-
cation of her request for aid toward America. In closing his oomment,
the commentator strongly mentioned the fact that peace on the Pacific
depends upon America's attitude and the determination of Japan to
wipe away all obstacles lying before her path toward the accomplish-
ment of her aim.
Japanese music.
Domestic news:
News was from Chiba, Gumma, Ibaraki and several
other prefectures (unable to get all names, because of static inter-
ruptions). None was of a particularly interesting nature. Comprised
primarily of news pertaining to the national service movement
started within the various towns and villages, the recent shrine
festivals observed and the names of the soldiers of these prefectures
who were recently honored by the government.
Japanese music.
Japanese national anthem.
-2-

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZK Program
Dato 10/24/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles
News: (Condition not very good).
Something about the Tojo cabinet.
Something about Jap an's financial circle.
2
Something about special envoy Yoshizawa call-
ing on Premier Tojo.
Something about the demarcation of the border
between French Indo-China and Thailand.
Something about the Jap anese troops operating
in Hunan Province.
Gen. Hata, supreme commander of the Jap anese
troops in South China, who has been making a tour of in-
spection, returned safely to Nanking yesterday.
According to a dispatch from Hongkong, a
Sino-Anglo-American economic conference will again be held
in Hongkong. This is because no agreement was reached in
the previous conferences held at Hongkong and Chungking.
According to a report fron well-informed source,
Chiang Kai-shek reportedly is planning to occupy Burma with
his own troops in order to utilize the Burma route to its
fulle st advantage, and on the pretext of guarding the Burma
route, Chiang Kai -shek roportedly has a large numbor of troops
al ready in Burma.
According to a dispatch from Stockholm received
in London, German nechanized divisions reportodly have ad-
vanced to a point 38 kilometers away from Moscow.
According to a report received from a well
informed source, Gen. Timoshenko has been relieved of com-
mand of the Russian troops in the central s ector and ro-
placed by Gen...........due to his conflict of opinion
with Stalin.
According to a dispatch from London, a heated
debate took place in the British parliament yosterday in
regard to Britain's aid to Soviet Russia with tho Communist
-1-

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZK. Program
Date 10/24/41
group adticizing the government for not giving positive
aid to Russia.
Something about a London dispatch stating
that Lord Beaverbrook of tho Houso of Peers criticizing
the government for not helping Russia activoly (Rccord
again bacame very bad and mado it impossi ble to catch the
news clearly).
Something about Secretary of State Hull making
a statement that the change of Port from Vladivostok to
Archangel has nothing to do with Japan.
According to a disratch from New York, aid to
Russia reportodly will be shipped by way of the Atlantic
since the change from Vladivostok to Archangel m d sh ips
that roturned from Vladivostok reportedly are hoading for
New York.
According to a dispatch from Washington, Former
Ambassador to Belgium John Cudahy reportedly expressed an
opinion opposing the arming of American merchant ships.be-
foro the senate foreign rolations comnitte. (Rocord was
somowhat indistinet, but it seomed to report that Cudahy
stated that ho bolieves Hitler has no territorial ambition
and that the arming of merchant ships will load Amorica
into the war).
Something about a report from Buenos Aires
states that it would be necessary for American to supply
Argentina with arms if she wants Argentina to take part
in tho defonse of the Western Homisphore.
Somothing about the strikes in the shipyards
along the Pacific coast of the Unitod States increasing,
thus delaying tho dofonso program.
Something about the people of Pn ama boing dis-
satisfied with the role played by American in the rocent
coup do tat.
Commont on current events:
Rocord not very cloar. Comment pertained to
tho Russo-German war, particularly on the achicvomonts of
the Gorman troops. Prodic ed the downfall of Russin and
the uselessness of Britain and America's aid to Russia.
Jap anose music.
-2-

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZK Program
Date 10/25/41
Froquoncy 15,l60 Kilocycles
Nows: (Condition not very good).
Something about Premier Tojo deciding; to
hold a emorgoncy moeting of the Diet somotime in the near
future (date was inaudible) to discuss the varicus pend-
ing probems pertaining to the China incidont anc. t
Japenose-American relations.
Somothing about nowspapers in Tokyo commenting
on the Japanose-American probloms, as follows: Asahi
Shimbun stating that so long as America doesnot real ize
that the key to the Pacific problems is the sottlement of
the China incident and the creation of new order in East
Asia, it is impossiblc to continue the Japanese-American
relations. The Tokyo Nichi-Nichi stated that no matter
what attitudo Americe may take, our country will calmly
and cautiously watch the developments and strive for the
furthoranco of her national policy.
Something about the Japanese troops tighton-
ing their cncircloment of the Chinose troops in the regions
near Swataw.
Something about the third anniversary of the
fall of Bukan to be observed on ...
Somothing about the discovery of a Chinese
wircless station in the French concession of Shangnai and
its subsoquent confiscation.
Somothing about the stipulations of the treaty
concluded betwoen Portugal and Japan establishing an air
routo botweon Palao and Timor. Montioned services to be
made about once a weok, transporting mails, passongers and
freight.
Something about preparations being made to
exhibit Japanose goods at the exposition to o held in Hn oi
from November 30 to December 8 and heaus of tho Japan Cham-
ber of Commerce being sent to Hanoi to make the proparations
there.
Something about the German troops making steady
progress at Leningrad and Moscow and Rostov being threatened.
-1-

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZK Program
Dato 10/25/41
Something about a DNB roport stating that over
260 Russian divisions have been annihilated by the German
troops since the beginning of the war, besidesthe capture
of numerous arms and ammunitions.
Somothing about a Soviet dispatch roceived in
London s tating that the Soviet troops are proparing Moscow
for street fighting and installing all kinds of traps to
make Mo scow the grave-yard of the Gorman troops.
Something about an announcoment mado by the
people's commissar of information on October 24, s tating
that the Soviet governnent has beon moved to Kuibyshev,
but Stalin and the defense committee are still romaining
in Moscow.
Somothing about a government controlled nows-
paper in Borlin placing tho blame for the various incidents
on tho Atlantic upon America and criticizing the Prosident
to the effect that he had sunt American ships into the war
zone in spito of America's neutrality act and that he is
stressing tho frecdom of the seas for the purposo of a cquiring
tho supromacy of tho seas for America, herself.
Something about a roport fron Vichy stating the
British and Froe French trocps attacked French Somaliliand
on October 22 and captured Djibouti (?).
Somothing about a report fron Washington stat-
ing that Secretary of Navy Knox stated that war betwoon
Jap an and America cannot be prevented so long as Japan does
not abandon her aggressive policy before a convontion of
industrialists engaged in naval projects on October 24.
Although it can bo regarded that ho mado such an outrageous
remark as a means to accelerato the naval arnamont program,
which is considorably bohind schedulo, ho reportedly is be-
ing criticized among naval quarters for having mado such
an irritative remark.
Somothing about a UP dispatch from New York
stating that Sovict Russia has notifiod the Chinese Red Army
that she can no longer send her war materials because of
the fact that she neods thom.
Something about internal dissontion cropping
out within Chungking due to Chiang Ksi -shek's attompt tc
-2-

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.98)
Station JZK Program
Dato 10/25/41
replace s mcbody with Hu Shth (?), who is inAnorica.
Something about the Chungking regine issuing
an order for the annihilation of the Chinoss Rod Armay, whose
war supplies have beon cut off from Soviet Russin.
Something about a Nanking roport stating that
the American military mission in Chungking has r jocted
Chungking's requ est for 500 planes and America's help in
the mechanization of the Chinose troons for a largo scaled
offensive against the Japanose troops noxt Spring.
Comment on current events:
Topic "Tho woaknoss of Anglo-American military
economy as revealed by the developnents of the Russo-German
war": The records were not very clear. Tho conmentator
tried to explain why Britain is not landing troops on
continental Europe to fight against Germany in spito of
tho sentimont of tho peoplo advocating such a stratecy.
The reason given was that Britain's productive power must
be increased threo or four fold bofore she can undertake
such a schemo and until thon she must depend upon America.
Another reason given was her lack of man power and the
long proparation that would be required before such an
undertaking could be carriud cut. Still anothor reason
was that Germany has more planes stationed on the west than
tho number that is present taking part in Russo-German
war. As for Amorica's reacon for not sonding troops over
to the European continont, the commentator explained that
it is due to tho great sontinent acainst war making it im-
possible for tho authoritius to do so until British troops
are actually landed on the continent and to tho sontiment
that that would be like protecting Britain's imperialism.
Ho somewhat belittled the morican navy by stating that in
spito of tho President's "shoot first" order, numorous
ships, including a dostroyer, had boen sunk and, on the
other hand, no German ship had boen sunk. In view of theso
facts, the commentator concluded, America, in all likoli-
hood, will never take part in the war, but is eiding
Britain just to further hor ambition of ruling ovor Britain.
Coming woek's progran
Notification of change of fruquency from November
1 to JZI 9,535 kilocycles, 31.46 meters.
Japanese national anthem.
-3-

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZK Program
Date 10/27/41
Frequency 15,160 K1locycles
News: (Condition of record not very good)
Some sort of a prediction as to what action
Foreign Minister Tojo will take during the special session
of the Diet.
Something about the preparations bein made
for the opening of the special session of the Diet on
November 15.
Something about Premier Tojo visiting the
Kashiwara Shrine and Momoyama Mau soleum.
Something about the Asahi Shimbun criticizing
America's aid to Chungking and terming it an attempt to get
control of China.
Something about the Tokyo Nichi-Nichi claiming
the American government's decision to change the port of en-
try of America's war aid from Vladivostok to Archangel as a
victory of Japan without fighting (I am not sure but it
sounded like that. The recording was very poor).
Something about the Japanese troops' operation
somewhere in China.
Something about Wang Ching-wei holding a tea
party at Towa Club.
Something about a message bein intercepted
at London pertaining to German troops: advance toward Mos-
cow.
Something about a German communique pertaining
to the capture of Kharkov and the German troops assault on
Rostov. Also, something about German troops inflictin con-
siderable damages on the Russian troops trying to escape
from Leningrad.
Something about Chancellor Hitler holding a
conference with Italian Foreign Minister Ciano at Hitler's
headquarters.
Something about the people's commissar of in-
formation holding an interview with press reporters on
-1-

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZK Program
Date 10/27/41
October 23 and expleining the transfer of the government
site to Kuibyshev.
Something about German air force starting an
intensified raid on England imnediately after thc conclu-
sion of the Tussian campaign.
Something about the third Anglc-American-Chung-
king economic conference to be held at Hongkong shortly.
Something about an announcoment to the effect
that President Roosevelt will make & radio broadcast on
October 27.
Something about Pearson and Allen commenting
on the president's policy toward Japan. (Contents in-
audible). Comment appeared to be unfavorable.
Something about America's policy toward the
South American nations.
(Last news pertained to Amorica and Eguador,
but nothing was audible except the words "America" and
"Equador").
Coment on current events;
Talk appeared to be about the coming emergency
session of the Diet, for mention was made in regard to the
aim of now cabinet and the matters to be discussed by the
Diet. It predicted the support to b e given by the Diet to-
ward the now cabinet in regard to the cabinet's policy per-
taining to the China incident and the Pacific problems.
Tho record was so poor that nothing moro than this could
be grasped.
Tomorrow's program
Japanese national anthem.
-2-

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.93)
JOHN EDGAR HOQVER
DIRECTOR
Federal Bureau of Juvestigation
Anited States Department of Justire
MENT OF STATE
ashington,D.U.
#ac-Fe
December 17, 1241
COMMUNIO
017194
ROLD
BY SPECIAL IHSSENGER
Ay
Divisiohof
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
FAR EASTEPH AFFAIRS
Assistant Sccretary of State
894.76/69
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Department of State
0
Dear Mr. Berle:
For your information and as of possible
interest, I am transmitting herevith translated tran-
scripts of radio broadcasts from Tolyo, Japan, for
Cctober 28, 29, Lovember 6, 7, 8 and 10, 1941.
Si cerely yours,
.Ée. 2tooven
JAN 3 1942
FILED
Enclosures
DEC181941
61
PS/MW
Justhe Departmeut Guiy1984
5.16.1984
By R1G

=== Page 96 === (confidence 1.00)
Station JZK Program
Date 10/28/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles.
News:
The emperor held a luncheon today in honor
of the new and old cabinet members.
Special Envoy Yoshizawa and his party of
16 left at 1 p.m. today from Tokyo for Hanoi.  They will
leave Kobe on October 31.
In regard to Special Envoy Yoshizawa's de-
parture for Hanoi, the Tokyo Asahi Shimbun of today pub-
lished an editorial, expressing her confidence in Yoshi-
zawa's ability and her belief that the relations between
Japan and French Inod-China will become closer and stronger.
Sometime ago, Foreign Minister Togo announced
the appointment of Haruhiko Nishi as vice-foreign minister.
Today, he announced the shake-up of foreign ministry person-
nel, as follows:
Otojiro Saito, director of the South Seas Bureau,
assigned to the Japanese embassy in Thailand as councillor.
Tsuyoshi Tsukamoto, foreign ministry clerk, ap-
pointed as acting-director of the South Seas Bureau.
Taro Terazaki, director of the American Affairs
Bureau, retired.
Kumaichi Yamamoto, director of the East Asia Af-
fairs Bureau, appointed as director of the Anerican Affairs
Bureau. (Also, to serve concurrently as director of East
Asia Affairs Bureau).
Shiroji Yuuki, director of lst section, American
Affairs Bureau, appointed as director of 3rd section, Com-
mercial Affairs Dureau.
Shunichi Kase, director of 3rd section, Commerical
Affairs Bureau, appointed as director of lst section, Ameri-
can Affairs Bureau.
The Japanese troops operating in the neigh-
borhood of Tanko, Hupeh Province, reported completed its
campaign yesterday, completely annihilating the Chinese 15th
and 103rd divisions.
According to a dispatch from Washington, Pre-
sident Roosevelt made a 30 minutes radio broadcast at 10 a.m.
on October 27. He did not touch upon the Japanese-merican
relations, but stated that aid to Britain and Russia will
-1-

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.99)
Date 10/28/41
be continued. He, also, expressed the necessity of re-
pealing the neutrality law to enable American merchant
ships to enter ports of the belligerent nations.
According to a dispatch from Detroit, Se-
cretary of Navy Knox made a nation-wide broadcast on
October 27 in commemoration of Navy Day . He reported the
progress of the naval construction program and emphasized
the necossity of repealing the neutrality law, as follows:
The present neutrality la w is threatening America's secu-
rity. It is al so threatening the defense of the nations
fighting against Germany. There is no such thing as neutrality
in the world, today. Even our views and actions are not neutral.
On the same day at Boston, Sen. Walsh, De-
mocrat, stated that the American navy's participation in
the war is absolutely impossible. That is, he stated that
the American navy and air force have not been p roperly
trained to be able to fight on a foreign soil, nor are
they fully prepared to do so. Furthermore, he explained
that it is practically impossible for our country to be able
to construct naval facilities sufficient to enable our
country (America) to police the world.
According to a report from Seattle, the strike
of ship-yard employees of Seattic and Tacoma is taking on
renewed vigor and isthreatening to develop into a state-wide
strike. On the other hand, the employees at Boeing Aircraft
Company, too, are threatoning to go on a strike.
According to a dispatch from Shanghai,
Chungking reportcdly has suggested to Soviet Russis the
conclusion of a military pact aimed at Japan. It is be-
lieved that she has made this suggestion to receive further
aid from Soviet lussia in view of the great decrease of aid
from America, but Japan is not worried as to whether Chungking's
suggestion is takon up by Russia, who is on the vergo of being
defeated.
Accordin: to a dispatch from Hongkong, Owen
Lattimore, advisor to Chungking, went to Kumming on October
22 and then to Keiling to confer with Chinese officials
there. He, also, is expected to visit . . . .
According to a dispatch from Shanghai, prices
of food-stuffs are rising steadily in Chungking and this
is causing considerable hardships. For example, people are
selling thoir belongings to obtain monoy for their children's
education. As a result, dealers in old clothing arc making
considerable profits.
-2-

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
Datc 10/28/41
According to a dispatch from well-informed
source, the German troops have broken through the Russian
defense line and aro marching steadily toward Moscow, al-
though Russia reports state that fierc.o fighting is being
continued at Mozhaisk and Maloyaroslavets.
According to a Russi an report, tho Gorman
troops have now advanced to the outskirts of Rostov.
According to a dispatch from Berlin, the
Gorman foreign ministry yesterday official denied tne rumor
of peace between Germany and Britain, as follows: Whenever
Britain's position becomes unfavorabi, they immediately
begin circulating rumors of peace negotiation between Germany
and Britain, and this is merely Premier Churchill's old trick.
According to a dispatch from London, about
10,000 poople, led by the leader of a labor union, gathered
at Trafalgar Square on Octobur 26 and joered a spokesman of
the government, who had come to explain the government's
position. They urged for a more active aid toward Russia.
According to a dispatch from Shanghai, a
part of the Soviet government reportedly has been comploto-
ly transforred to Kuibyshev, tho birth place of Lonin,
According to a dispatch from Rome, the Italian
government yesterday announced that a former minister of
Iran arrived in Italy by plane and asked llusso lini to
protect him. ie reportedly was to be turned over to British
authorities by the Iranian gvernment, shortly.
Comment on current events:
Topic "A reviow of the week's diplomatic
developments": In regard tc this week's diplomatic develop-
ments, let us take a closs-up view of the confused movements
of Britain and America and tho nations following them as a
result of the formation of the Tojo cabinet, the develop-
ments of the Russo-German war situation and the actions of
the nations aiding Russia, America's amendment of the
neutrality law to make possible the arming of merchant ships
and the various problens contering around the Japanese-
American negotiation. Firstly, let us consider the forma-
tion of the Tojo cabinet and the situation in East Asia.
On October 18, when the new cabinet was formed, Premier
Tojo stated that the noble task of accomplishing the China
incident and croating an East Asia mutuai prospority sphere
-3-

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.98)
Dato 10/28/41
will be carried out, while Foreign Liinister Togo emphasized
that the high ideal of Japan is to preserve and further
world peace. In connection with this, let us consider the
affect of these statements upon Chungking and the nations,
such as Britain and America, who have deep connections with
her. To begin with, let us start with the confusion of
Chungking. When the Konoye cabinet resigned en bloc, the
Chungking government asaumed an optimistic view tc the
effect that with the rupturing of the Japanese-lmcrican
negotiation, Japan will turn her strength toward merica
and lessen her vigorous policy toward Chungking to some
extent, but when she heard that the statements of Promier
Tojo and Foreign Minister Togo attached importance to
tho accomplishment of tho incident and the c reation of a
mutual prosperity sphere in East Asia, sho became as con-
fused that it was pitiful to ses. To cope with the situa-
tion, she inmediately bogan devising a measure to win over
America. That she, becoming confused, immediately called
a meeting of the supreme defense council has been mentioned
in the nows boadcast. Hence, becoming aware of the f act
that the situation has beccme veryunfavorablo to her,
Chungking is holding energency meetings almost every day,
of late. In other words, Chiang Kaishek and the other loaders
secrotly held mootings on October 21 and 22 to discuss measures
to receive more aid from morica. These facts actually in-
dicato the condition of Chungking. However, in regard to
this, the movements of Britain and imerica cannot be over-
looked. These are the movements of the British and American
military missions and the British and American economic
missi ons. While tho military missions are attompting to
reorganize Chungking's air force and nochanize the Chinese
army, the cconomic mission, on tho other hand, has held
economic conferences to discuss Chungking's cconomy and is
also planning to hold another conferonce at Hongkong.
Now, let us turn our oyes further toward the south. The
military conference held at Melbourne on October 23 and
attended by representatives from Australia and cther de-
mocracies has resulted in the adopticn of the plan for
military cooperation of the scuthern nations. It cer-
tainly must be said to bo regrettable that these nations
aro misinterproting and doubting our country's renl motive
of promoting nd prosorving real world peace. Now, in
considering the dovelopments of the Russe-German war, we
find that the German troops have accomplished a renarkable
progress. It was on October 2 that popresontatives of
Britain, merica and Soviet Russia mct in Moscow to discuss
the means by which to defeat Hitler. However, today, not
-4-

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.99)
Date: 10/28/41
more than 20 days after the said conference, the German
troops have advanced to a point not more than 37 to 40
kilometers away from Moscow. On the other hand, the German
troops have practically occupied Ukraina in the south
sector and is now in a position to carry out the Caucasus
campaign. Again, in looking over the recent achievements
of the German troops, we find that the German troops up to
September have annihilated about 260 Russian infantry divi-
sions and 40 aircraft divisions. thus making it absolutely
impossible to reorganize the Russian army. Besides, in
losing the Donets (?) rogions, Soviet Russia has lost 70
per cent of her coal, 80 per cent of her iron, 84 percent
of her manganese and........., loo per cent of her nickel
and platinum, 75 per cent of her bauzite and 80 per cent
of her aluminum. When this is taken intoconsideration, we
become aware of the fact that Soviet Russia has b een struck
to such an extent that she has practically lost her hands
and feet. Now, let us consider the actual state of Britain
and America's aid to Soviet "ussia. Objectively speaking,
it is a matter of lifo and death to Soviet kussia, and reports
from Europe indicate that tlic situation is not favorable to
Soviet Russia. In regard to this, the British government
authorities expressed sn attitude of unwillingnessto aid
Soviet Russi a before the House of Peers on October 22. That
is, when the communist members demanded of the government
to send troops to Europe and actively aid Soviet Russia in
her fight against Germany, the reply made by Liinister of
Colonial Affairs............ was that the sending of troops
toEurope would result in the fall of Britain. He stated
that due to the lack of men,Britain's production power is
not sufficient and not only a re there not enough troops to
send to Europe, but the arnament, too, is not enough to
accomplish the undertak ing. Judging from this, Sovict Russia
must depend on America, alone. However, America, too, in
certainlyunable to give such a brisk aid to Soviet lussia
as she states. Thus, it can be seen that before the on-
slaught of the German troops the si tuation will become more
and more unfavorable for Soviet ussia. Moreover, recent
developments clearly indicate that Soviet Russia is con-
fronting a crisis. That is, a UP dispatch from Chungking
on October 24 reported that the Soviet government has
notified the Chungking government that she can no longer
expect aid from Soviet Russia due to her shortage of war
materials. Next, let us consider the situation inAmerica.
It can be said that the past week was a very busy one for
America due to the problems pertaining to the amendment of
the neutrality law and Japan. Firstly, let us consider her
-5-

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.99)
Date 10/28/41
recent attitude toward Jap an. The first matter that should
be taken into consideration is the outrageous remark of
Secretary of Navy Knox. His remark was that judging from
the present situation in East Asia a clash between Japan
and America is inevitable. Prior to this, the American
government authorities showed considerable confusion when
the new Tojo cabinet was formed. Showing a slight change
in her attitude toward Japan, she issued an order pro-
hibiting all, except diplomats (?) to express challenging
words toward Japan. It was at about this time, too, that
the maritime cormission announced tliat Vladivostok will no
longer bo used as the port of entry of America's aid to
Soviet Russia. In regard to this, the authorities concerned
announced that this decision had been made purely from
tho stand-point of transportation facilities. However, no
matter what excuse the American government may give for
this change, it can be regarded that this action was taken
to soften ths existin tension between American and Japan.
For example, when Socretary of Navy Knox made the pre-
viously mentioned outrageous remark, the American government
showed signs of confusion and expressed her regret for
the remark made by Secretary of liavy Knox. Of course, there
is no need for our country to take hoed of each and every
work spoken by an American, and so long as they are not
words spoken with a corruct understanding or our country's
noble ideal of creating an East Asia mutual prosperity
sphere, our country will never be moved. Instoad, thoso
facts must be regarded as signs of the American government's
confusion. Now, let us discuss the nuch discussed matter
of arming merchant ships. Since this matter was approved by
the senato foreign affairs comittee at its meeting of the
25th, it has made it possible for America to arn her
merchant ships and send then into the war zones. Besides,
since the pending mendment of the noutrality law is one
that is definitely counter to the spirit of the existing
neutrality law, America will have taken a step further into
the war. However, it can be imagined that the opposition
of those opposing it will become all the more strong. A
final discussion for the amendment of the noutrality law
is scheduled at the senate meeting of the 27th. Another
matter in rogard to America is that her Central and South
American policy becane all the more blunt during this week
and that she carried out various coorcive policies agninst
the Central and South American countries.  What I would
liko to mention in concluding is that no ratter how much
the ABC nations nay move, the iron will of tho Axis powers
will nover be shaken. In November, an energency session
-6-

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.98)
Date 10/28/41
of the Diot is scheduled to be held in our country. As
for Germany and Italy, a conferencc was held at the German
High Cormand between Foreign Minister Ciano of Italy and
Foreign Minister Ribpontrop and Chancellor H.tlor of
Germany on October 25. The determination of our country
to carry out her e stablished policy in spite of the universal
confusion will be made all the more s trong ith tlio con-
vocation of the Diet's special session: Besides, our
rela tions wi th Italy and Gernany, unmindful of the sinister
designs of Britain nd Americu, will become all the mere
strong and will contribute greatly toward the destruction
of thc anti-Axis influences.
-7-

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZK Program
(AB)
Date 10/29/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles
News:
The Japanese military air force on the morning and
afternoon of October 27 raided Ichuan and ....... in Shensi Province
and caused considerable damages to the troops concentrated there.
The Japanese troops operating in Canton province
attacked the Chinese troops concentrated at a point west of Kyoyo (?)
on October 22, 23, 24 and 25 and killed about 453 enemics and
captured numerous arms and ammunition.
In regard to the convocation of the Diet's special
session from Novembcr 13, it was officially announced through
Today's official government gazette.
About 34,000 youths from places throughout Japan and
her possessions will take part in the national athletic meet, which
will be held from October 31.
The new Chinese ambassador to Japan left Nanking
today for Peking, from whence he will come to Japan to assume his
new office.
The first student to come from French Indo-China to
study in Japan arrived this morning in Kobe. He will take up tho
study of medicine. He stated, as follows: In the past, the French
Indo-Chinese government did not like to see any one go to Japan to
study. Now, she is all for it. This is an indication that she has
come to realize hcr part in the East Asia mutual prosperity sphere,
which is being established by Japan.
The spocch given by President Roosevelt on October
27, Navy Day, was roported in d etail to our country, and the nows-
papers of Tokyo, today, are severely criticizing it. Although
President Roosevclt did not touch upon thc Japanose-American problems,
the Asahi Shimbun and Yomiuri Shimbun claimed that it does not mean
that America will mollify her Far Eastern policy. Instcad, it is an
attempt of Amcrica to avoid clashing with arms on the Pacific in viow
of the serious situation in the Atlantic. The newspapers further
stated that no matter how friondly (?) tho president may pretend to
be toward Japan, it is meaningless in vicw of tho fact that he is
advocating the policy of aiding Chungking. The ncwspapers concluded
with a romark that the read justment of tho Japanese-American
relations can never be expected, so long as Amcrice openly continues
her aid to Chungking, who is our cnemy.
In rogard to tho reactions of the various nations
to the president's talk, thcy are as follows: Even in America, the
president's speech is bcing severely criticizcd and it is cven being
debated in congress. Sen. Walsh of the senate naval affairs committce
stated beforo the senate meeting to discuss the amendmont of the
-1-

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.98)
neutrality aw yesterday that the prosident is lcading Amcrica into
the European war without the consent (?) of the nation and congress.
Besides, anothor scnator stated that thc prosident's specch has do-
ccived the nation, for whilc advocating peace on one hand, hc has
openly announccd that preparations to take part in the war have been
complcted. Thus is tho president's speoch being criticized in
America. In rcgard to Germany's roaction, Germany roportedly is
very provokcd because tho prosident's spocch was of the most
provocative naturc hoaping unhcard of abuscs upon Germany. Hence,
disrogarding all intornational procedents, Gormeny roportodly
rotaliated in the following mannor on October 28. That is, the
Gorman authoritios regarded Presidont Roosevelt as a merchandiso (?)
and statcd that they havo no intontion to fool around with a talk
mado by such. They further stated that the Jows are behind his talk
and that it is up to Roosevelt to carry out whatever policy ho wants
and pointcd out that ho is attcmpting to sacrifice tho lives of the
fathers and sons of Amorica by conding thom to Europo primarily for
tho sakc of the Jews. On the other hand, Britain cnthusiastically
welcomod the presidont's specch as an indication that Amorica will
throw off hor mask of neutrality. Honcc, the nowspapors of London
roportodly aro stating that in view of tho unfavorable position of
Sovict Russia, upon whom Britain had rclicd, Britain must now depend
upon Amcrica's participation in tho war. In rogard to the reaction
of Chungking, a dispatch reccived in Hongkong revoals that Chungking
is somowhat hoartened by tho fact that the strengthening of aid to
her was mentioned at tho cnd of thc prosidont's talk, but is, on the
other hand, somewhat worricd because nothing was mentioned about
Japan in spitc of thc fact that the dostruction of Hitlcr was stressed.
This she reportedly is rogarding as America's dosire to rapprocho
toward Japan.
According to a dispatch from Saigon, Ministor
Ishiyama, a member of Special Envoy Yoshizawa's party, arrived in
Saigon from Hanoi on October 27. On tho following day, October 28,
ho called on Gen. Uyeda, supreme commander of tho Japanese troops
in French Indo-China. Ho is expected to call on t he supreme
commander of the Japanesc navy and other high ranking officials in
a day or so and return to Hanoi on Novonber 2, after completing
proparations for thc cstablishmont of th: special onvoy's office.
According to a dispatch from Bangkok, nti-British
sontimont appears to be coming stronger in Thailand in viow of the
various sinistcr activities of Britain. Ever since her dcclaration
of strict neutrality on July 29, Britain has boon trying to alicnate
her from Japan by cocrcion and propaganda. Even in rogard to the
propaganda that Japan is making stern demands against Thailand in
connection with tho demarcation of her border, it has been found cut
that tho propaganda was put into circultion by tho British consulato.
According to a British broadcast of Octobor 27, tho
Gorman air forcc reportodly flow over Moscow and dropped loaflets
urging tho surrondor of Moscow. On the othor hand, a detachment of
Gorman troope reportedly have brokon through the defonso lino of the
Russian troops dofending Moscow.
-2

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.98)
According to a rcport from Gorman source, the Russian
troops defending Moscow reportedly have completed preparations for
the evacuation of the city and have mined the ontire city with the
intontion to blow up tho city following thoir cvacuation.
According to a communiquo issucd on Octobor 28, the
German troops in the south sector capturcd Kramatorsk, 80 kilomoters
north of Stalino, on October 27. Honce, the Russians havo now lost
their greatest industrial (?) city. Besides, the German troops
reportedly broko through the Russian defonse line at Porokop and
penetrated decply into Crimca on October 26.
According to a radio broadcast from Moscow, Kharkov,
too, is bcing imporilod.
According to : dispatch from Borlin, tho Turkish
gencrals, who had boen touring the front lines , returned to Berlin
on October 28 and conferrod with Chancellor Hitler and other high
ranking German officials. This is bcing regarded as a military
repprochemont of Turkey toward Germany.
According to a dispatch from Now York, America is
already nogotiating for tho componsations to bo received from the
anti-Axis nations after the termination of the current war for the
aid sho is giving to them presently. Against Britain, sho is
demanding tho right to usc Britain's naval bases, which are
cstablished throughout the world. Against Chungking, she roportedly
is demanding for tho monopoly of China's raw materials.
According to a dispatch from Washington, Columnist
Richard Rawlins (?) published on tho Washington Star of October 27
an item criticizing Sccretary of Navy Knox's remark of Octobor 20
and making a suggostion that a round-table conforence between
reprosentatives of Japan and Amorica bo held to sottlo the present
Japanese-American probloms. He stated that the romark of Socretary
of Navy Knox to tho offoct that war between Japan and America is
inevitablo, in all likclihood, was made to stimulato thc defonse
industries, but it has tic danger of stirring up a war. Ho claimed
that tho courso to be taken by Anorica should bo to sponsor a
round-table confcrence, attended by thrce roprosentatives from Japan
and Prosident Rooscvelt and Sccrctary of State Hull, and discuss the
fundamental probloms, tho solution of which would bring about the
solution of other problcms.
According to a dispatch from New York, tho presidont
in an interview with news roporters yestorday hinted that he is
thinking of asking congrcss to pass a law outlawing strikos, in
view of the strikes at Taconn and Soattlc and John F. Lcwis
refusel to hoed to the president's requcst to call off the coal
striko.
According to a dispatch from Now York, tho
International Labor Fodoration convoked its first labor conferenco
since the outbreak of the war at Colunbia University on October 27.
Thc confcrence is schcdulcd to be hold for ton days and the nations
represonted in this conferenco reportodly arc Amcrica, Britain,
-3-

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
Chungking, the Central and South American nations and the defeated
nations of Europe. What is interesting is that Soviet Russia is
not represented in this conference because she had withdrawn from
the League of Nations.
According to a dispatch reaching Canton from Hong-
Kong, the Chinese officers and men, who had been injured by our
troops at Changsha, reportedly are being treated at Hongkong and
they reportedly are circulating a rumor that about 6o0 planes and
numerous pilots have arrived in Chungking from America recently.
But this is believed to be groundless and false.
According to a report from Chungking, tho trans-
portation condition between Hongkong and Chungking has become so
bad that it has become practically impossiblo to carry on business
transactions between the two cities. As a result, prices of food-
stuffs are rising and due tothe large amount of currencies issued
by the Chungking government, a serious inflation appears to be
inevitable. The attempt of Britain and America to prevent this
inflation is belicved to be impossible.
Conmont on current events:
Topic "The real nature of the ABCD encirclement
cgainst Japan": The talk was based on an clectrical transcrip-
tion of Major Takeda's talk. Major Takeda is connccted with the
military information buroau. The bad condition of the clectri-
cally transcribed talk made it impossible to translate in detail.
The gist of the talk is that Japan need not be afraid of the
ABCD cncirclemcnt, but should carry out her established policy
and wipe away the obstacles lying along her path. Ho emphasized
that Japan's power, by all moans, is not cxhausted by the four
years of war as thought to be by tho third powers. He mentioned
how Britain is busily strengthoning her forces in Singapore,
Malaya, Burma and India and that Ancrica and Britain's intention
is to chock Japan's southward progress and gain control of East
Asia.
Japanese national anthem.
-4

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.98)
STATION JZA Program
(AB)
Date 11/6/41
Frequency 9,533 Kilocyclos
News:
Our troops yesterday morning started a drive against
the Chinese Red Army, numbering 20,O00, stationed in the southern
part of Shangtung province. Pushing westward, thcy reportodly havo
completely encircled the eneny.
Our troops, operating in Honan Province, yosterday
occupied Chubaten, on important city on thc Keikan railway line,
and continued their march southward along the Keikan railway line.
According to a dispatch from Hankow, the Chinese
troops reportedly are being striken with Japanophobia. That is,
in spite of their strong fortification at Joncn (?), Katsuzen (?)
and Shiyo (?), they hurriedly began retreating immediatcly when
the Japeneso troops began their drive against those towns.
According to a dispatch from Hankow, e staff
officer of Chungking reportedly cseapod from Chungking to Hankow
and according to his stctement, Chungking is forcibly conscripting
men into military servicc, but is moeting with considerablo diffi-
culties. On the other hand, the Chineso troops are considerably
afraid of tho Japanese troops and aro unwilling to fight.
According to a dispatch from Taigen, our troops,
operating in Shansi Province, reportedly are carrying on a succcss-
ful campaign against tho Chinoso troops concentrated in the south-
castern part of Shanshi.
Special Envoy Saburo Kurusu, who has been dispatched
to Washington to assist Ambassador Nomura, arrived in Takao, Formosa,
yesterday. He reportedly left this morning for Hongkong, fron where
he will board the China Clipper and head for Washington. Envoy
Kurusu is oxpected to confor with Prosident Roosevelt nd other
leaders of America and settlo the probloms existing between Japan
and Amcrica.
According to a dispatch from London, the dispatch-
ing of Spocial Envoy Kurusu to America appoars to have relieved
Britain's anxiety considerably. However, it is being rogarded
that tho break will come if America continues to maintain her
presont attitude against Japan.
According to a report from tho conmunication bureau
of the Chosen Govornment-General, the Kibi Liaru, operating between
Tsuruga, Japan Proper, and Scishin, North-eastern Chosen, sank off
Chosen Wednesday at about 10 p.m., after striking a floating mine
on her way to Tsuruga. There were about 342 passengors aboard the
Kibi Maru, bosides the crow of 66 mon. Soveral rescue ships have
been dispatched to the locality, and it is belicved that all will
-1-

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.98)
bo regcued This is the socond timo that a Japanose ship has been
sunk by a floating mine. The first happenod on September 1, when
a Korean fishing vessel of about 60 tons wank off thc eastern coast
of Korea aftcr striking a mine in thc wators south of Seisuira.
Then, on September 10, a fishing vossel discovered a floating mine,
which exploded after being taken on board. Although the fishing
vessel did not sink, four fishermen were killed. After considorable
investigation by our government, it has bcen discovered that those
mines were of Soviet Russia and had floated away from their anchor-
age off Vladivostok. Honce, our governmont has lodged u storn
protest with the Soviet Government.
Various preparations are being hurried for the
convocation of the special session of the Diet on Novembor 15.
According to reports, thc Dict will manifest their whole-hearted
support towerd the new cabinet's policy end will undertake no
intcrpellation in order to cxpedite important lcgislations.
According to an announcement mado by the Mar
Ministry today, Lt. Ga Princo Riwogin has been appointed as
superintendent-gencral of military cducation.
Governor-Genoral Hasegawa, of tho Formosan Govern-
ment-Genoral, who is visiting in Tokyo, was granted an mudionce
with tho emporar today and reportedly made a report of the mattcrs
under the jurisdiction of tho Formosan govornment-goncral.
A motion picturo "MIINYO HOSHO", filmed to commem-
orato tho 26 centennial anniversary held last yoar, will be
reloased on November 10. It will bo first showm before the
mombers of tho imperial household.
Preparations are being made to celcbrate tho loth 
anniversary of tho founding of Manchoukuo next year. A cormittoo,
headed by Premior Tojo, is handling all of the preparations.
Today, Novenber 6, is tho fourth annivorsary of the
conclusion of tho German-Italian-Japaneso anti-conintorn pact. To
commemorato this anmivorsary, tho German-Italian-Japanese Friendship
Soceity has dccided to hold (?) an anti-comintcrn confcrence of all
religious socts on tho 28th and 29th at the Education Hall in Kanda;
an anti-comintern conforence of all university students on the 26th,
a lecture meeting at the Soldiers Hall in Kudan on the 29th and
other anti-conintern conferences throughout Japan.
According to a dispatch from Hanoi, sovoral new
bureaus havc been o stablished within thc French Indo-China govern-
ment to cxpedite the task of Spccial Envoy Yoshizawa, who is
expected to arrive in lanoi shortly.
According to a communique issuod by thc Gorman 
High Command yostcrday, the German troops, operating in Crimen,
yestorday broko through tho Russia defense along the Yaila Mountain
range at soveral places and are prosently making a stcady advance
castward. On the other hand, tho German air forcc raided Korch,
-2-

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.98)
Yalta and Sovastopol. Two Russian transports, totalling 10,000
tone, reportedly wero destroyed by the German air force off Crimca.
Besides, tho German air force also raided Guesleve (?), an important
industrial city.
According to a dispatch fron San Francisco, the
Lockheed P-38, thc largost military plane constructed by the Lockheed
Aircraft Company of Glondalc, Californin, suddenly broke in mid-air
during its tost flight on November 4, killing its tost pilot.
Comment on curront ovents:
The situation on the Pacific, today, has renchod an
unprecodentedly critical stage. Honco; it is ncodiess to montion
that the cmergoncy session of tho Dict, which is to be callcd to-
gether amidst such a situation, is of an important nature unproco-
dented in the history of Japan. With the dato of tho amergency
sossion approaching ncar, I would like to talk on tho situation in
Japan, today. Tho Tojo cabinot is a cabin.t that was formed to
accomplish tho two groat aims of scttling the China incident and
ostablishing the East Asia mutual prosperity sphere. Acting as
the motivating power of our country amidst this critical intorna-
tional situation, this cabinet has dccided tc convoke a special
sossion of the Dict. Honce, she is drafting various urgont bills
in regard to tho emorgoney for the approval of tho Dict and, at
the same time, for the undorstanding and support of the nation.
Consoquently, it should be regarded that this is the most appro-
priate timo for the realization of completc unity bctweon tho
governmont and tho people for the subjugation of the emergoncy.
Today, tho attention cnd interost of the hostile nations is being
focused upon our country. In vicw of this attention and intcrcst
of thc hostilo natiens, the special session, which will be held
shortly, will be an important one differing in its significance
and naturo from the past sessions of tho Diet. Honco, it is not
difficult to imagine that the manifestation of the government's
policy and detcm ination at this session of tho Dict will have a
great offect upon tho hostile nations. In view of the fact that
Promier Tojo's mossage to tho Diet will bo an important detormin-
ing eloment in rogard to tho intornal and external political
situation, considcrablc effort is being cxerted in drafting it.
The draft reportedly is oxpected to bo complcted somotime this
week and will be presented for tho approval of the cabinet sone-
time next week. In this mossage to the Dict, Prenier Tojo
reportodly will boldly and straight-forwardly revoal to the nation
the intcrnal and extornal situation with omphasis on the rolations
botwcen Japan and Ancrica and will mako a strong appeal to stir
tho moralo and solidarity of tho wholo nation in ordcr to overcome
this unprccedented crisis. Now, lct us considor this somowhat
concretoly. Firstly, lot us considor the policy to bc carried out
by our country. Nocdlcss to mention, so long as our country's
unshakable policy cxists, our national defense footing will bo
porfected along this lino and, at the semo tine, our country will.
strive for the dcfense and sclf-sufficioncy of East Asia. Nextly,
lot us considor tho actual stato of the negotiation bctwcen Japan
and America. As stated in yestcrday's comm nt on current cvents,
-3-

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.98)
merica, in sontrast to our country's sincerity, patience and prudence,
has beon stubbornly maintaining a selfish attitude and has beon oppross
ing our country by strengthening hor anti-Japanese encirclement. In
addition to this, sho is striving to d cstroy (?) our oconomic and
political position in thc Pacific aroa. Consequently, our government
has decided to present the urgent problems beforo the Diet and seck
for its approval in order to cstablish a firm and unshakablo war
footing and to bo ablo to cope with any encrgoncy. Other important
matters to be handled by the cmergency session of tho Dict are the
reorganization of administrative agencies, the establishment of a
now econonic footing, the porfection of the production power, the
maintenance of low prico (?), the increased production of food-stuffs
and tho proservation of raw materials, which aro necossary ror the
perfoction of tho national war footing. In regard to tho energency
session of the Dict, which has such an cpochal significancc, the
attitudo of tho govornment is as firm as mentioned above. On tho
other hand, let us consider the attitude of the members of both
houses, who are scheduled to attend tho cmergency sossion, in
regard to this. In rogard to this, Masataka Ota, doctor of ccononics,
nade the following romark. "Tho most urgent matter of today is to
rcalize a national solidarity with no difforenco of opinion between
tho government and the people and betweon the service and tho people.
Consequently, it can b: said that thc coming session of thc Dict is
ono where a now thing is going to bc croatod by the govornment and
the Dict, for the highest mission of the Diet is nothing other than
to croato a groat thing that will ....... tho important points in
tho history of Japan. In other words, it is nccessary to apprcciato
the significance and poculiar mission of this war-time Dict and to
create a new thing with the attention of the government and tho Diet
focused upon the question as to how Japan, today, is bcing regarded
and watched by tho foreign countrios and thus show this thing to
the foroign countries as Japan's attitude of national solidarity".
Thus did Dr. Masataka Ote explain tho spirit of the Dict members to
bo. Noxtly, let us considcr tho opinion of tho financial circlos
in regard to the omergoncy session of thc Dict. As was explained
in a provious comment on current cvents, tho most urgent metter of
our country is to cxecuto tho proposed incrcaso of taxation, to
strengthen and porfoct tho dcfenso industries and to carry out the
policy of encouraging savings and other war-time policies. (Rccord
indistinct). In rogard to tho Japanoso-Amorican nogotiation, the
people of Japan are vory indignant in regard to Amcrica's outrageous
acts, and as an indication of the public sontimont of Japan, the
reports of the nowspapors havo become markedly anti-Amorican, of
late. For cxamplo, tho Tokyo Nichi-Nichi Shimbun of the fifth
carried a statoment of Admiral Sankichi Takahashi, former commander-
in-chief of thc combincd flect, ontitled "Sounding the intention of
America": In the stetoment, tho following remark was made. "Sone-
time ago, I was told by Admiral Iwamoto, commander-in-chief of the
combinod floet, that the moralo of the men of the floct is high and
that thcy are burning with thc spirit of curtain victory". He fur-
ther stated that tho nation, at this time, should have absolute
confidonco in the might of tho armod sorvices nd should strengthen
thoir belief that thoy should chargo onward. Besides this, tho Aschi
-4

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.98)
Shimbun of the third commented on the hostile acts of America and
emphasized the detcrmination of our country. The Yomiuri Shimbun
and other papers, too, have similarly criticized the attitude of
America. Although the abovo is only a part of tho picture, it
fully indicatos how thc public sentiment of our country is wholly
placing its confidenco and support with the government. Honce,
with the spocial session of the Dict approaching near, the govern-
ment, the Diet and the people are acting as one with the firm
detemination to cvon engage the hostile nations, who are attompt-
ing to obstruct the settloment of the incident and thc ostolishment
of the East Asia mutual prosperity sphere, in a war.
Japanosc music.
Japanase national onthom.
-5-

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.98)
Station JZI Progfam
Dato 11/7/41
Frequency 9,535 Kilocycles.
News: (Record indistinct)
News about Japancse troops' operation some-
where in China.
The emperor and empress today loft fer Haya-
ma palace. They are expected to return to Tokyo before
the convocation of the special sessicn of the Dict on the
15th.
With the dispatching of Special Envoy Kurusu,
the fate of the Japanese-american negotiation will be de-
cided. So long as merican refuses to recognize Japan's
desire to prosorve the pence of tho Pacific and of the
world, it canbe inacined that the negotiation will ond
in a failure and the worst situation will be brought about.
Consequently, no matter how the s tuation may dovelop, it
will be America's rosponsibility and our country is making
every pr-paraticn to cope with it. In regard to the dis-
patching cf SpecialEnvoy Kurusu, the nowspap ers are claiming
that the mission of Special Lnvoy Kurusu is the last sffort
of Japan to preserve world peace. (Record indistinct.
The commentator went on to mention the reports received by
the Asahi Shimbun and the Tokyc Nichi-Nichi frem New Ycrk
and something about the Washington Star of yestorday. The
text was not clear.)
Special Envoy Kuruau, vho is on his way to
America, arrived in Hongkong on the morning of November 7
and immediately caught the China Clipper for Manila. Although
Spcial Envoy Kurusu was expected to be in Washington by
November ll, he is now expected to reach Washington erlier
than that date because or the excellent plane to plane
connection made at Hongkcng. Acconpanying Envoy rusu
is Yuki (?) of the foreign office.
In regard to the disastrous fate of the Kibi
Maru, oreign Minister Toge reportedly has lodged a stern
protest with the Soviet govarnrent through the Soviet Ambas-
sador stationed in Japan. That the mine which struck Kibi
Mary has definitely been established as that of Soviet Russia
in a statoment made by Minister cf Navy Shimada. According
to Minister of Navy Shimada, Soviot mines have been found
floating off Northern Korea and Western Saghalion ever since
August 29, endangering shipping in these areas. As a result,
-1-

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.98)
Date 11/7/41
the navy hs been patrolling and dostroying these mines
in these creas, while some sort cf measure was being
negotiated with the Soviet government. Nevertheless, the
Soviet government has nade no attempt to do anything abcut
it, thus resulting in the Kibi Maru disaster. Irmediatoly
upon notificaticn of the disaster, ships were sont to the
scene of the disaster to rescue the passengers nd crew.
Judging fron the Sos dispatch sent by the ship gnd the fact
that many Soviet mines were found floating in this area, it
is clear that the disaster was cau sed by a Soviet mine.
Furthermore, the number of floating mines discovered to
date is 69(, of which 51 (?) were b rought up, 45 (?) were
destroyed and 18 (?) were left alone. Acccrding to a
repert mado by the Korean covernment-general, 281 persens
of the Kibi Maru have beon r escued, some 20 bodies recovered
and 21 reportedly are missing.
In an intorview with newspaper reporters today,
Director Ishii of the information bureau stated as follows
in regard to the Kibi Maru disaster: "The Kibi Maru dis-
aster is a very sericus mattor, for the Soviot government
have been warned scveral times in the past. The Soviet
govornment may have riade some offort, but we cannet depend
upon hor sincerity.
The Tatuta Maru, the Hikawa Maru and tho Taiyo
Maru, which were sent to America to roliove the transpor-
tation inccnvenience, reportedly left their respective
port without any mishap. The Tatuta Liaru left San Fran-
cisco on November 2; tho Hikawa Maru left Seattle on November
4 and the Taiyo Maru left Honolulu on Hovember 5.
It was cfficially announced today that Juichi
Tsushina, president of the Bank of Japan, has been appointed
tc the presideney of tho Ncrth China Dovolopment Conpany.
Sonething about the discovory or scne sort of
high grade cre in the Canton Province.
According to a dispatch fron London, the
German troops repcrtodly have broken through the Russia
defense line at Sevastopol and hav advanced to a point 8
kilomotors away fron tho city. On tho other hand, the
German air force reportedly destroyed 3 Russian transports,
totalling 13,000 tons, off Crimea, besides damaging four
others.
According to a dispatch fron Moscow, Stalin,
on thu anniversary cf the Russian revolution, made & broad-
cast, in which he pointed out the crisis of ussia and
-2-

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.97)
Date 11/7/41
urged the landing of Bitish trcops on Ccntinental Europo.
According to a dispatch fron Detroit, Lord
Halifax, British anbassador to Anerican, was gretod with
eggs and tomatoes upon his arrival in Detroit by meribers
of a women's organization cn Novomber 3. However, on the
following day, N vember 4, he was honorably welecned in
Cleveland by members of a wonon's organization.
According to & dispatch fron Washington, Pre-
sident Roosevolt has g ranted a loan of 1,000,000,000 to
Soviet Russia under the lend-lease act, according tc an
announcement made by the Department of State yosterday.
The payment cf this loan reportodly is to begin five years
after the cenclusion of the war and is to be paid up in
ten years. Nevertheless, due to tho lack of transportation
facilities, it is being doubted as tc what extent America
will be able to aid Soviet Russia.
According to a dispatch from London, Britain,
America and Dutch East Indies repertedly are planning to
organize (?) voluntoer troops and other plans to aid
Chungking.
Conmient cn current ovents:
The destruction o: enemy's trade is stressed in
present day war. America's arning of erchant ships and
repealing of her neutrality law are both problems centering
around the destruction of trade. I believe yeu all knew
of how Gurnany is sericusly destroying Britain's trade,
today. Hence, let us hear fron Comdr. Furuhashi of the
navy's infornation bureau in regard to the present day
trade destruction warfare and the might of the Japanese
navy. (An clectrical transcriptien cf Comdr.Furuhashi's
talk was broadcast, and it was not clearly audible. In
it,Condr.Furuhashi mentioned the great success boing ex-
perienced by the German navy in its canpaign cr destroy-
ing Britain's trade. He elucidated his talk with sttistic
of the total tennage destroyed by the Gernan submarines
and hinted ef a Gernan victory in the near futur:. In re-
gard tc the position of Japan, he stated that Japan is
ruch more favorably situated than the other nations bocause
she cculd obtain her materials from the East Asia mutual
prosperity sphere, where as America rnust cbtain hers from
-3-

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
Date 11/7/41
far away places. He concluded his talk with the statement
that so long as the Japanese navy exists, this t rade route
will never be threatened).
Japanese national anthem.
-4-

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
tation JZI Program
Date 11/8/41
Frequency 9,535 Kilocycles
News:
Special Envoy Yoshizawa and his party today arrived in
Haiphong and were greeted by the Japanese officials and high ranking
officials of the French Indo-China government off port. Upon his
arrival in Haiphong, Special Envoy Yoshizawa stated as follows:
"French Indo-China is not an unfamiliar place to me, for............
Since then, the relations between Japan and French Indo-China have
improved greatly and through the conclusion of the economic agreement
in May and the joint defense agreement in July, both nations have
entered into a new phase of mutual prosperity. I am determined to be
a real friend of French Indo-China and strive for the further im-
provement of relations between French Indo-China and Japan. I only
hope that French Indo-China will not mistake her step, but carry out
a policy based on mutual reliance."
According to a dispatch from Manila, Special Envoy Kurusu,
who is hurrying to Washington, arrived in Manila yesterday and
visited President Quezon and High Commissioner Sayre. In thc evening
he attended a cocktail party sponsored by the Japanese Consul-General.
He reportedly boarded the China Clipper at 1:3o a.m. today and headed
for Washington.
Special Envoy Kurusu, who arrived in Manila on the after-
noon of November 7, held an interview with newspaper reporters after
conferring with President Quezon and High Commissioner Sayre and
stated as follows: "My purpose for going to America is to discuss
the Japanese-American negotiations and ...... is that the less Secre-
tary of State Hull talks about Japanese-American relations the better
it would be."
With the opening of the special session of the Diet now a
week away, its schedule was announced as follows today: November
15 - Convocation of the Imperial Diet. November 16 - Opening Cere-
mony of the Diet. November 17 - House of Peers' meeting and messagof
by the Premier, Foreign Minister, and Finance Minister. November 2).
Settlement of all pending bills. November 21 - Closing ceremony.
Prince and Princess Mikasa held their wedding reception
today. The reception was attended by high ranking government offi-
cials, as well as the representatives of foreign governments station!
Tokyo.
According to an announcement made today, 435 persons, in-
cluding passengers and crew-members, were on board the ill-fated
Kib1 Maru. Of these, 287 have been rescued and 22 bodies recovered.
-1-

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.99)
The remaining l26 reportedly are missing.
Tokichi Setoguchi, renowned for his composition of "Pa-
triotic March" and "Gunkan March", died this morning at the ripe old
ago of 74.
Since the first batch of Japanese evacuces are scheduled
to arrive in Kobe aboard the Hiyei Maru on November 15 from the
Dutch East Indies and Philippines, preparations are being made to
assist those evacuees by the Overseas Japanese Central Society and
the Kobe Chamber of Commerce. The officials of these two organiza-
tions are scheduled to meet the said ship off port on the day of its
arrival.
The Japanese troops, operating in the southern part of
Honan Province, have been making steady progress. They have captured
Razan, Chobaten, and Kakuzan. Yesterday afternoon, they annihilated
about 2,000 enemy troops at a point 26 kilometers west of Kakuzan,
after which they advanced to a point 40 kilometers west of Kakuzan.
According to a dispatch from Haifu, our troops dealt a
great blow to the Chinese troops, which tried to take advantage of
the withdrawal of the Japanese troops from Teishu. About 350
Chinese troops, belonging to the 1lOth and 117th Chinese divisions,
were killed, besides the capture of many arms and ammunitions.
According to a dispatch from Nanking, a meeting of high-
ranking Chinese officials will be held from tomorrow for threo days
and will be attended by Wang Ching-wei. At this meeting, plans for
the collaboration between Japan and China, based on the Sino-Japanese
agreement, will be discussed.
Something about high-grade mica ore being discovered in
Manchoukuo.
According to a dispatch from Shanghai, America is repor-
tedly considering the evacuation of her Marines from Shanghai. To
begin with, it was not under an agreement that American and British
troops were first stationed in Shanghai. However, with the outbreak
of the European war, British troops were withdrawn and American
troops had been protecting Britain's interests ever since, causing
various incidents to occur. Consequently, it is believed that the
evacuation of the American Marines will bring about a cheerful at-
mosphere in Shanghai.
According to a communique issued by the German High Command
yesterday, German artillery troops reportedly are bombarding Sebas-
topol with heavy artillery fire and are also making preparations to
attack other Soviet fortifications on the Crimean Peninsula.
-2-

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.99)
According to a dispatch from Stockholm, the allied troops
of Germany and Finland reportedly have started a new drive along the
Murmansk railway toward the White Sea. Furthermore, according to a
communique made public by the German High Command, about 20 Russian
warships, besides 34 other Russian vessels on the Black Sea, have been
destroyed up to November 7.
According to a dispatch from Helsinki, Finland today denied
Britain and America's report that she is negotiating for peace with
Russia as a groundless propaganda aimed to break up the unity of pub-
lic sentiment in Finland.
According to a dispatch from Berlin, the director of the informa-
tion bureau of the German Foreign Office, in regard to Stalin's plea
to Britain to carry out the landing of British troops on Continental
Europe on the anniversary of Russia's revolution, stated as follows:
"The fact that Soviet Russia has made such a demand of Britain indi-
cates that her military strength has greatly weakened. Nevertheless,
inasmuch as Britain has not the strength to undertake the landing of
troops on Continental Europe, it, after all, is an attempt by Stalin
to place the blame of Russia's defeat upon Premier Churchill."
President Roosevelt has decided to grant a loan of $1,O00,O00,000
to Soviet Russia because of his fear that the Soviet might stop her
resistance against Germany. However, Soviet Russia, fully aware of
America's intention, is feeling very uneasy. (Record indistinct).
What Soviet Russia really wants is that Britain and America take
military action against Germany and if this cannot be done she be-
1ieves $1,000,000,000 1s too cheap an aid.
According to a dispatch from New York, Rear-Admiral Yarnell, for-
mer commander of the American Asiatic Fleet, caused a sensation by
publishing an article pertaining to the weakness of the British Air
Force in the November 6 issue of Colliers. In it, Rear-Admiral
Yarnell stated that the British Air Force froquently is so careless
as to bomb her own country's warships and troops and explained that
the British Air Force bombed a British warship by mistake during the
time when the German warship Bismarck was being pursued, in May. He
also stated that the British Air Force is refusing to attack German
submarines in spite of an order issued by the Admiralty on the ground
that it is the task of the Navy. (Record indistinct. Mentioned some.
thing about the action of the Air Forcc during the Crete campaign.)
According to a dispatch from Chicago, (record indistinct. Some-
thing about the president of a railroad workers' union issuing an
order to 350,000 members of the union to go on strike from Deccmber
5(?)).
According to a dispatch from Bangkok, the British Government
-3-

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.99)
reportedly has ordered Thailand to decrease her production of rubber
and tin next year, but Thailand reportedly has rejected the demand on
the ground that it is a matter to be decided solely by Thailand and
not by another power. The reason why Britain has made this demand, it
is believed, is to decrease the supply of tin and rubber to Japan.
Japanese music.
Comment on current events:
Topic "Special Envoy Kurusu's mission to Arcrica": (Record
was not very distinct, but as much as possible has bee: translated).
As a manifestation of her eagerness and effort to maintain the peace
of the Pacific and thus contribute toward world peace, our country has
decided to dispatch Special Envoy Kurusu to America to aid Ambassador
Nomura in the Japanese-American negotiations. The said envoy left
Tokyo on November 5(?) to assume his post in Washington. Before going
further let us consider the situation in East Asia. When the Tojo
Cabinet was formed, Britain and America, feeling very uncertain about
the future of the Pacific, became very perturbed, it seems. For ex-
ample, Secretary of the Navy Knox openly stated that the situation has
become such that a clash between Japan and America is inevitable. As
expected, the authorities in Washington were startled by this fiery
remark of Secretary Knox and explained that it was the personal opinion
of Secretary Knox. If it were truly the personal opinion of Secretary
Knox, it would not be objectionable, but America's Far Eastern policies
executed since clearly indicate that it is the unanimous view of the
Roosevelt regime. That is, her act of aiding Chiang Kai-shek to make
Chungking the advance post of her continental offense in the Pacific,
together with the activities of her military mission hended by Admiral
Magruder, has becomo all....the active....and even in regard to her
Far Eastern defense, not only has the air force of...........been en-
rolled into the American force, but the leaders have been changed and
even the reserves are being called to active duty. Hence, Amcrica is
busily perfecting her war preparation in such a manner, and if the ap-
pointment of General Grunert (?), who is renowned as the father (?) of
America's air force, as conmander of the Far Eastern force is not an
indication that America is no longer iving any consideration to the
mattor of preserving the peace of the Pacific, we wonder what it is.
Furthermore, when......of General Grunert and...... are considered,
we can see that Secretary of the Navy Knox's vicw of the inevitability
of a Japanese-American clash is fully reflected within America's Paci-
fic policies. Bosides, it is needless to mention at this time the
frantic efforts of Britain, who is trying to secure her position in
East Asia through America's help. (Mentioned Duff-Cooper's activities
in East Asia and something about Generals Popham and Wavell as indica-
tions of Britain's desperate effort to strengthen Anglo-American co-
operation.) By this fact alone, it can readily be imagined to what
extent the war preparations of Britain and America in the Pacific have
been strengthened. Due to this challenging attitude of Britain and
America, the situation is becoming so critical that it is likely to
-4

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.99)
break at the slightest touch. In regard to the attitude of our
country, Japan, against such challenging attitudes of Britain and
Ame rica, it has been repeatedly mentioned in the past. Nevertheless,
although the cabinet of our country has changed from the Konoye cabi-
net to the Tojo cabinet, no change has been made in its underlying
policy. That is, when Premier Tojo assumed his office, he stated
that the fixed policy of Japan is to contribute toward world peace
through the accomplishment of the China incident and the creation of
the greater East Asia mutual prosperity sphere. Foreign Minister
Togo, too, explained that the ultimate aim of our foreign diplomacy
is the preservation and promotion of world peace, and this under-
1ying principle is being steadfastly maintained even the the Japanese-
American negotiations.  It is our ccuntry's sincere desire to do away
with the scourge existing between Japan and America and bring about
a complete understanding for the preservation of peace on the Pacific
Be that as it may, it is needless to mention that Japan has no desire
to consummate the negotiations by overlooking realities. In other
words, Japan will steadfastly maintain her position to secure the
right of her existence and seek for the understanding cooperation of
America. Inasmuch as her policy is based upon this belief, her atti-
tude and policy is as unshakable as a rock. If both sides should
recognize this, Japanese-American negotiations could easily be con-
summated, and this is the reason why Japan is not abandoning her hope
in those negotiations. Needless to mention, the dispatching of
Special Envoy Kurusu to Anerica from our country is nothing other
than an attempt by Japan to straihten out the difficulties even at
the last moment. It is absolutely not an attempt of our country to
seek for peace because of her fear of Anglo-American preparations in
East Asia nor because of her fear of Anerica's strength. It is
nothing other than the manifestation of our country's real spirit to
do that which should be done for the straightening out of the diffi-
culties and for preparation to meet the ultimate decision of fate.
The primary reason why the consummation of the Japanese-Americun nego-
tiations is apt to be thought impossible is that Anerica is belittling
the strength of our country. It is probably due to this mistaken
view that America is regarding with suspicion the various problems
involving the Pacific. Again, the reason why America, today, is
still aiding Chiang Kai-shek and oppressing Japan is that she be-
lieves the continuation of Chungking's resistance to be the best
means to weaken the fighting strongth of Japan and, should our na-
tional power be destroyed as a result of it, America believes that
she can make our country yield without fighting through an economic
blockade. Probably nothing is more nonsensical than this. Indeed,
it is absurd. Through the five years' ordeal of the holy war, the
strength of our land and sea forces has become all the more superior
and with the determination of the nation to overcome this crisis be-
coming all the stronger, a war preparation has been completed to cope
with any emergency. Nevertheless, inasmuch as the leaders of America
are making no attempt to......
....., but are only strengthening their
-5-

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.98)
mistaken policies, war appears to be inevitable, no matter how much
our country may strive to preserve the peace of the Pacific. Let
me repeat again that what our country desires is peace. Nevertheless,
there is a limit to tho policy of conciliation. So long as Britain
and America continue to...........of the Pacific, our country, it
should be remembered, has a fitting determination to cope with any
situation. In other words, our country, which is taking the course
of righteousness, has nothing to fear. With things coming to such
a pass, I would like to emphasize that the consummation of Japanese-
American negotiations now depends entirely upon the opinion of the
Roosevelt regime and cannot help but urge the Americ . Government's
reconsideration.
Japanese music.
Japanese national anthem.
###
-6-

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.99)
tation JZI Program
Date 11/10/41
Frequency 9,535 Kilocycles
Round-table conference of women behind the front.
Talked of insignificant experiences.
News:
Something about the conclusion of the new campaign started
at a point north of Shinyo, Hunan Province. Annihilation of the
greater part of the Chinese Army claimed. 1,964 Chinese reportedly
killed and many arms and munitions taken.
Report from the front on the great achievements of the
Japanese troops operating in the southern region of Shantung Province.
Chinese troops of the Chinese puppet government reported assisted
in this campaign.
The Nippon Kinyu Kyogi Kai (Japan Financial Federation)
held its board of directors meeting today at the Tokyo Bankers' As-
sembly Hall. Finance Minister Kaya, who attended this meeting on
the invitation extended by the said association, explained the
financial condition in Japan, urged the cooperat ion of financial
circles with the government's policy and stated that Britain and
America's freeze act, which had been enforced to disrupt the economy
of our country, instead has elevated our country's position and
driven out Britain and America's influence from East Asia.
It was announced today through the oficial government
gazette that the 78th session of the Diet will be convoked from
December 26.
Manchoukuo's development project is about to end its first
five year plan in March of next year. To datc, about 100,000 Japan-
ese have gone to Manchoukuo to take part in its development. With
plans to undertako its second five year plan next year, Manchoukuo
is expected to make greater progress and to achieve this aim, a de-
velopment farm law (kaitaku nojo ho) was passed on the 13th. The
law will become effective in March. By this new law, Japanese will
be allowed to possess land and to hand their estate down to their
decendents and contribute toward the development of Manchoukuo's
agricultural industry through the principle of mutual prosperity and
cooperation. Furthermore, in regard to the second five year plan,
it is being discussed among the various Japanese and Manchoukuoan
officials.
According to a dispatch from Hanoi, Governor-General
DeCoux, who is presently in Saigon, issued the following statement
on the 9th in regard to the coming of Special Envoy Yoshizawa: "It
-1-

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.99)
is indeed a matter of congratulation that the coming of Special En-
voy Yoshizawa will contribute greatly toward the strengthening of
the friendly relations between Japan and French Indo-China. Due to
the mutual trust existing between Japan and French Indo-China, a
closer friendly relationship will surely be realized."
In regard to the exclusion of Japanese by the Panama Govem-
ment, our foreign office issued a statement on the 8th strongly
criticizing the act of the Panama Government. This matter has
greatly excited the nation, too, and all the newspapers are criti-
cizing the unreasonable act of the Panama Government is follows:
"The action of the Panama Government is an unreasonable one unpre-
cedented in international history and we absolutely cannot ignore
1t. Furthermore, the fact that America is behind it is all the
more............ Sometime ago, America assisted in the overthrow of
the Arias regime and in the creation of a new pro-American regime
and before this she issued an order prohibiting the passing of
Japanese vessels through the Panama Canal. Now, Panama has been
taken in by America's scheme to prevent Japanese from possessing
land within the Panama Canal Zone. For her future, we would like to
urge the reconsideration of the Panama Government."
With the thickening of the dark clouds over the Pacific,
the press circles of Japan, focusing their attention upon this, are
commenting as follows in regard to the situation in America: (Asahi
Shimbun of the 19th) As a matter of fact, America is known as a
"have" nation, but in spite of the fact that she is well favored with
natural resources, it is doubtful as to whether she would be able
fully to utilize her natural resources in time of an emergency, for
she is experiencing a great shortage of labor. That is, although
4,3000,000 are engaged in the various defense projects, only 35%,
or 1,500,000 are skilled workers and 40%, or 1,7000,000, are semi-
skilled workers. The rest are all unskilled. In addition to this,
American labor has not yet been organized on a war footing. In
fact, large-scale strikes arc breaking out now and then........
it can be said that America is lacking the all-important elements
for the carrying out of modern war.
According to a dispatch from Rome, an Italian paper today
commented upon the Far Eastern situation, as follows: "The Japanese
Government, at present, is exercising patience and caution and is
regarding the preservation of peace as her primary policy. However,
if it becomes impossible for her to protect herself by this means,
we believe that sho will not hesitate to accept Amcrica's challenge.
To begin with, the Far Eastern crisis is the outgrowth of the hostile
attitude taken by President Roosevelt against the Axis powers, to
say nothing of America's arming of merchant ships and trespassing
through the war zone. Hence, America is wholly responsible for the
crisis on the Atlantic and the Pacific."
-2-

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
At a time when the inevitability of war between Japan and
America is being discussed, a book pertaining to the life of Japanese
students in Japan has been selected as the Book-of-the-Month for
November by the Book-of-the-Month Club. The book was written by
Samuel Arakawa (?), instructor at Wisconsin University.
According to a dispatch from Canton, anti-Chiang Kai-shek
movement reportedly has broken out in the region surrounding Canton(?)
According to another dispatch from Canton, in spite of the
order issued by the British Consulate-General on the 3rd ordering
all British subjects to evacuate from Canton and the neighboring
regions, British subjects are refusing to evacuate. According to a
spokesman of the group, although British subjects are residing in a
territory occupied by Japanese troops, they are not being molested
in any way. Hence, they see no necessity of evacuating.
According to a dispatch from Moscow, the German front
facing Moscow appears to be greatly reinforced. As a result, it is
believed that the Germans will attempt a new offensive soon. Also,
the German troops, operating in Crimea, reportedly captured Yalta
and are now intensifying their drive against Sebastopol.
According to a DNB dispatch, the German Air Force on the
8th destroyed about 36 Russian planos on the ground in the air fields
of the south and also caused fire to break out in 39 supply trains.
In regard to the German troops' operation in Crimea, a
Domei report from Rome stated as follows: The allied troops of Ger-
many and Hungary have already occupied four-fifths of the Crimean
Peninsula. Besides, one-fourth of the Russian Fleet in the Black
Sea reportedly has already been destroyed. In view of the fact that
Odessa and Kherson are already in the hands of the Germans, the only
Russian bases left are Sebastopol and Novorossisk in the Black Sea.
If the former should fall, the Russian Fleet in the Black Sea will
become absolutely powerless.
Although America reportedly has warned Finland to negotiate
a peace with Russia and estrange herself from Germany, Finland has
reportedly rejected this warning and, according to a dispatch of the
9th from Helsinki, Finland will make an official reply to America
soon and will reject the warning as America's coercion against Fin-
land.
In regard to the German Air Forces activity against Britain
during the past few days, they reportedly sank one transport and
three merchant ships, totalling 31,ooo tons, in the waters west of
England and two merchant ships, totalling 7,000 tons, in the waters
east of Scotland on the 8th. Again, the German Air Force on the 9th
-3-

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.98)
raided Dover and caused considerable damage to the harbor facilities
there. Furthermore, the German Air Force shot down 23 British
planes in an air duel over a German-occupied territory in France on
the 8th.
According to a dispatch from Moscow, the Soviet Government
today made public Stalin's reply to President Roosevelt for the
granting of $1,000,000,000 1oan. According to the dispatch, Stalin
has assured Russia's help (?) if the situation demands.
According to a dispatch from Laval (?), Croatia, the Cro-
atian Government yesterday announced the change made in the post of
vice-premiership. Osman Krenovitch (?) has been replaced by Dolfus
Craig (?) as vice-minister and Krenovitch (?) has been assigned to
an important post in the foreign office.
Review of domestic news of the past week:
On November 6, the Emperor Meiji's Birthday was observed
throughout Japan and Prince Takamatsu attended the finals of the
athletic meet that was staged at Meiji-jingu grounds.
News about the honoring of parents with ten or more
children, of the 37 girls who assisted in the development of Mongo-
lia, of those who worked in the factories of Tokyo for ten or more
years without a day of absence.
News of the increased birth rate of Tokyo, last year, and
the decrease of the death rate of infants to 7%.
News of the holding of an infant health contest in Tokyo.
General Araki acted as judge.
News of the shortening of the school terms of the universi-
ties.
News of the youth delegation which went to Mongolia being
on board the ill-fated Kibi Maru and helping in the rescue of the
passengers.
News of the observance of the second anniversary of the
anti-comintern pact on the 6th (?).
News about the scheduled meeting of the Chuo Kyoryoku Kai
(Central Cooperative Society).(Record faded into noise).
News of Japanose troops operating in Hunan Provinee, also
news of their operating in the neighborhood of Bukan.
Japanese music and national anthem.
#/#
-4-

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.88)
DeR
JOHN EDGAR HOOVER
DIRECTOR
DARtnf Nurrau of Investigation
AnitedoStatry Bepartment of Justire
shihgian, D. O.
He-Fe
PSOLA
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
Honorable Adolf A. erle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of Stat
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
894.76'70
Dear Mr. perle:
For your information and as of possible interest,
16
there are attached hereto translated transcripts
of radio broadcasts from Station J2I, Tokyo, Japan,
for the dat es of Novemver 19, 20, 21 and 24, 1941.
4y
Sincerely yours,
SAD EAST
re. 2toover
D
Enclosures
Fele
P
DFC241941
DEPAR
7
DEC 31 1941
FDED
Justice Depactmint Guidelnis 127.1984
R2TGs
5.16.1984

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZI Program, 11/19/41
News of the 77th emergency session of the Diet has already
passed practically all of the important bills and is fully mani-
festing the spirit of national solidarity and support.
News of the announcement of the government's intention to
call as many emergency sessions of the Diet in the future, if
necessary, by Premier Tojo at yesterday's session. He stated,
"The idea to cope with external situation together with the people
through an emergency session of the Diet will be maintalned in the
future by the government. Therefore, if situation necessitating
your services arises in the future, emergency sessions may be
called as many times as necessary." In regard to the interpella-
tion pertaining to national solidarity, he ststed that he has seen
no national solidarity as complete as that of the present in the
history of Japan, and that there has been no time in the past when
the liaison meetings of the imperial headquarters have shown such
smoothness as today.
News of the kind of bills passed by the House of Peers to-
day. One bill pertained to the problem of preventing shortage
of food-stuffs.
News of Finance Minister Kaya's estimation that next year's
income wil1 be about 2,000,000,000 yen before the taxation com-
mittee of the House of Commons this morning.
According to a dispatch from Washington, the second meeting
between Secretary of State Hull and Ambassudor Nomura and Envoy
Kurusu was held for 45 minutes yesterday. The conference re-
portedly was carried on in a friendly etmosphere. They agreed
to continue their discussion on the 19th again. Prior to the
second conference, Ambassador Nomure, who visited the Department
of Stete, replied to newspapermen thrt American newspapers!
reports on the Japenese-American negotintion are too gloomy, but
I still have hope. Besides, President Roosevelt, in an interview
with newspaper reporters on the l8th, replied that he can say
nothing in regard to yesterday's conference, but that he would
like to meet Ambassador Nomura and Envoy Kurusu agein.
According to a dispatch from London, the interest of Britain
toward the Japanese-American negotiation is very keen and her
real attitude is to make America take part in the European war as
soon as possible but to void a war with Jepen. This is the
reason why Premier Churchill has been threatening Japen at times
and eppeasing her at other times. On the other hand, Britain
fully knows that she will suffer the most if and when a war
between Japan and America should occur in the Pacific.
News of the reaction of the various nations toward the emer-
gency session of the Diet.
-1-

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.98)
Station JZI Progrsm, 11/19/41, con't.
(a) Editor Gaida of Journal d'Italia published an editorial
entitled "Japan's Position" on the 18th and expressed his whole-
hearted support toward Foreign Minister Togo's message to the
Diet, as follows: "The leaders of the Japanese government, to
date, have maintained a cautious attitude toward the threats of
Britain and America ageinst Japan and the possibility of a war
between Japan and Britain and merica. Therefore, Foreign Minister
Togo's message has become an important one. The claims of Foreign
Minister Togo heve made clear Japan's plans nd meucures against
Britain and America's policy of aggression and heve definitely
expressed Japan's strong view in regard to Jepan's plan in East
Asia. Foreign Minister Togo has expressed the attitude to be taken
by Japen in the event she confronts America's
,and
this attitude is an importent one for the correct comprehension of
the Pacific situation."
(b) The newspapers of Vichy allotted a greoter part of their
pages to the speech msde by Premier Tojo.. ......
for example, wrote that Japan's action in the Pacific in connec-
tion with the French Indo-China problem..............the joint
defense agreement of French Indo-China, which has grestly
strengthened the indepondence of French Indo-China. Besides, the
evening paper, Vetan, (phonetic) published the speechos of
Premier Tojo and Foreign Minister Togo in detail and commented
its effect upon the Far Eastern situation end regarded Premier
Tojo's statement advocating the maintcnance of puace as an
illustration of Japan's effort to prevent the spreading of the war
into the Far Eastern Area.
According to a dispatch from Henoi, Envoy Yoshigaws, accom-
panied by Secretary Sugiyama, called on Governor-General De Coux
on the evening of the 18th ond conferred by the leaders of the
French Indo-China government for about 40 ninutes.
According to a di spatch from Bangkok, Britain's courcion
has finally lead to the loosening of Theiland's strict neutrality.
In regerd to this, a radio brondcast was made on the 15th,
warning the nation not to be swayed by the scheme of a third
power and claiming that the Premier, assuming the responsibility,
is determined to resign.
According to a dispatch from Vashington, Senator Vheeler,
an isolationist, in an interviow with newspaper reporters on
the 17th, commented upon the aggressive acts of the Amsrican
Navy, as follows: "I have obtained possession of reliable evi-
dence that the American Navy is carrying on acts of aggresion
in the Pecific as well as the atlentic. It is a letter sent by
a sesman aboard the U. S. cruiser St. Louis to his mother and
mailed from Honolulu on the 25th of last month. It mentions the
convoy and patrol duty of the St. Louis. I do not think that the
-2-

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZI Program, 11/19/41, con't.
American Navy has any right to carry out such acts of aggression
in cooperation with the British Navy nor to convoy British
merchant ships."
News of America's minc workers: strike, starting from the
17th end about to break out into a nation wide strike. Congress
reportedly is prepared to pass a law prohibiting strikes in
defense industries to prevent further strikes.
News of the Russo-Germen war: Destruction of a large mer-
chant ship, besides one destroyer and snother merchant ship,
claimed by the German air force.
Destruction of enemy rmed vessels, totalling 21,O00 tons,
and one warship in the North Atlentic and North Sea claimed by
German submerines.
Destruction of a convoy of merchant ships off Rostov claimed
by German air force.
Comment on current events:
Our country is confronting an unprecendented crisis amidst
this complicated internationel situation. What our countrymen,
who alrendy are fortir ied with a formid ble determination to
overcone this crisis, have been most esrnestly desiring latcly is
to find out how the Tojo cabinet is regarding the hostile actions
of the nations surrounding Japon and its fundamental policy to
cope with the situstion. Hence, the message rendered by Premier
Tojo bofore the Diet on the 17th clearly and strongly explained
exactly what the people hnd been wanting to hear. Today, I would
like to talk of the significance of Premior Tojo snd Foreign
Minister Togo's speeches and the internal and external repercus-
sions causcd by the spueches. Premier Tojo and Foreign Minister
Togo's messages to the Diet clarified the exact state of the
aggravated situation surrounding our country and fully revesled
our country's earnest belier and determination to overcome
whatever situation that may arise out of the Japsnese-American
nogotiation, which is at the crossroads of success or feilure.
Frankly speaking, Premier Tojo's spsech, together with Foreign
Minister Togo's speech, attached its importance to the final
effort being made by our country.
In other words, it placed its importance upon the fact
that Japan has been negotiating with America for the fundomental
solution of the Japanese-American problems since April and
explrined the three great diplomatic policies adhered to by our
country. Premier Tojo summarized it as follows: (1) That the
-3-

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.98)
NOTE:
1.
Observers fron Jipan all hention the still strong
opposition by financial and cormercial circles, to the mili-
tary clique's prcgram.
2.
Nearly everyone of these broadcasts has some
reference such as this, which indicates cooperation is still
lacking.
3.
The Japanese military cliques are not people who
would keup repeating such an iten for Japanese consumption
if it were an accomplished fact.
T.V.J.

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.99)
tion JZI Program, 11/19/41, con't.
the third powers refrain from obstructing the accomplishment
of the China incident, which Japan is striving for. (2) That
the nations surrounding Japan not only refrain from exercising
any direct act of a rmed intimidation, but also liquidate such
hostile act as the economic blockade and restore normal economic
relations. (3) To prevent the spreading of the European war into
the Far East.
These are the three policies. Therefore, as a proper con-
clusion, Japan must regard any nation as a hostile nition and
resolutely oppose her, so long as that nation attempts to obstruct
the accomplishment of the China incident, which our country is
striving for, even ii that nation advocates................and
proposes amity. Premier Tojo stated that the anti-Japanese
economic blockade of America, Britain and the Dutch East Indies,
is an act just as hostile, if not more hostile, than an armed
clash and since sucn act not only obstructs the accomplishment
of the China incident, which our country is striving for, but also
threatens our country's existence, it cannot be ignored. This
is the cry of our people and, at same time, a serious warning to
the hostile nations. The fact that the premier of our country has
openly referred to the hostile acts of the hostile nation before
the Diet is an unprecedented thing. This fiery speech of our
premier indicating our formidable determination was broadcast
throughout Japan later at 7:00 p.m. I believe that you, too,
who are residing abroad, have heard it, and it must have impressed
you all.
This long awaited message of the premier revealed the new
course to be taken by our country to the whole nation and injected
a new strength into the nation. "It is needless to state that the
premicr's speech impressed all who heard it, even the officers
and men at the front. That we will not be perturbed when the
worst situation arises, for our preparation has been completed,
must have been the.........and strong detormination of the netion
when they heard the premier's speech. Now, let us consider the
opinion of the financial circles in regard to this speech. All
received this speech favorably and with whole-hearted support.
In other words, their..........is that the time has come for
them to unite cnd scrve their country and to forget their selfish
and mercenary interest for the purposo of strengthoning our war
time cconomy. In this regard, it is needless to mention that
Finance Minister Kaya is responsible for the strong cooperation
of the financial circle. Such was the repercussion caused by
the speeches within our country.
Now let us consider the repercussions caused abroad.
The well-informed sources of Germany, our friendly nation, are
of the following opinion: That is, Japan till today only used
the phrase "the eccomplishment of the Chine incident" to indi-
cate her fundamental policy against America and Britain, but
has now taken a great step forward when Premier Tojo stated that
-4-

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZI Program, 11/19/41, Con't.
China incident is not an incident concerning only Japan and China,
and can only be accomplished by wiping away the......of.Americe
and Britain. In Italy all of the newspapers published the whole
text of Premier Tojo and Foreign Minister Togo's speeches and
commented that the Japanese government's........and.........
can be seen in the speeches and that she has the firm determination
to successfully cope with any situation that may threaten her
existence. Thus, they expressed their whole-hearted support to the
speeches. In regard to the Nanking government, it has been re-
ported that Premier Tojo nd Foreign Minister Togo': nnouncement
that Japan's policy toward Nanking will not be altered, has
greatly relieved the Nanking government and, as a result, she
has strengthened her determination to cooperate closely with Jepan
and strive for the creation of a new China. In regerd to Man-
choukuo, it a ppears as if a similar support was strongly expressed.
Now, let us consider the effect the speeches had on Chungking.
It has been reported that Chungking has become terribly afraid.
In other words, at a time when Chungking, who has come to rely
upon America and Britain as her only source of strength for the
continuance of her resistence as & result of the formation of the
ABCD anti-Jepanese encirclement, hs been showing a great decline
in her fighting spirit due to the failure of her plan to gain
the support of her people in the interior, the announcement of
Japen's detemmination by Premier Tojo and Foreign Minister Togo
for the fir st time has caused a greast uneasiness to Chungking,
who is fully aware of the weakness of the military strength of
Amsrice and Britain in the Fer East.
In regard to America, the other party of the Japanese-
American negotiation, which is drawing world wide attention, dis-
patches from Washington report thot the Department of State
suthorities have failed to make any comnent, but well-informed
sources are regarding the speeches of Premier Tojo and Foreign
Minister Togo as an Indication of the unshakeble determination
of Japan. The above is a rough picture of ths repercussions caused
by the speeches both in our country and sbroad, but our country
has esteblished her hundred year plen through this emergency
session of the Diet and with a preparation to respont to any
situation, she is hending toward the realization of her unshakable
belief. That is, since the peace and order of the East Asia is
the ultimate aim (?) of our country, she has no alternative
but to take drastic measures against any obstccle lying in her
path. This is nothing other than our country's noble mission to
contribute toward world peace.
Plan for the construction of a direct Tokyo to Berlin ex-
press train (Kyuko ressha). Hakata undoubtedly to be the principal
city connecting Europe with Japan.
Something about establishing a scheduled steamship route
hetween Hateta and Daisen. (Rest of news unimportent; pertained
to agricultural experiments, great catches of fish, etc.)
Japanese Netional Anthem.
-5-

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.99)
tation JZI Program
Date 11/20/41
Frequency 9536 Kilocycles
News:
News of the final day's session of the Diet. Stated
everything went along smoothly and the expected results were achieved
The lasttwo bills passed were the bills pertaining to the revision
of the air defense law and the mail censorship in the House of
Commons.
News of the announcement of the list of thosc to be re-
warded for distinguished services at the front by the War Ministry.
News of the l4th annual general meeting of the Japan
Chamber of Commerce held at the Imperial Hotel today. Passed a
resolution to support the government whole-heartedly.
News of the inaugural meeting of the committee to regulate
the iron manufacturing industry held at the Marunouchi Building to-
day. Viscount Hirao, formerly Minister of Commerce, was formally
appointed as head of the committee.
News of the Japanese troops operation in the northeastern
part of Shansi Province. Claimed the annihilation of 2,Oo0 Chinese
troops on the 17th, bcsides the destruction of over ten barracks
and 7 armament manufacturing plants.
News of the Japanese troops operation northeast of Ani (?)
in Shansi Province. Claimed the annihilation of 147 cnomy troops
and the capturing of 16 others, besides many arns and ammunition.
News of the appointment of Jusuke Akitani (?), present
sccretary, as the new head of the Shanghai Customs, thus breaking
the reign of British influence.
A London news report stating that the disrupted economic
conditions of Chungking have been taken up for discussion within
the British Parliament. Russell Thomas reportedly interrogated the
Government as to whether or not it has considered a moasure to cope
with the situation. In reply to this, a spokesman of the Government
reportedly stated that he has no knowledge of any concrete plan,
thus indicating definitely that nothing can romedy the inflation
being experienced in Chungking.
A Washington dispatch pertaining to the Japanese-American
negotiations. Nothing official took place on the l9th in regard to
these negotiations. However, an unofficial conference was held on
-1-

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.99)
the evening of the 19th; no announcement was made as to when and
where it was held.
A Washington dispatch pertaining to the Mine Workers'
strike: In spite of President Roosevelt's intervention, the strike
is aggravating. On the l9th, President Roosevelt reportedly sent
a letter to John Lewis of the CIo and the representative of the
steel companies. Nevertheless, the strike is spreading in scope and
now includes 137 mines in West Virginia, Pennsy1vania, and Kentucky.
News of the Russo-German War:
Judging from reports from Berlin, Moscow, and other places,
intense cold appears to have hit the front, resulting in the out-
break of influenza and typhus in both camps. Besides, German pilots
roported that snow is so thick that they are blinding attempting to
do their bombing accurately.
According to a communique issued by the German High Com-
mand, the German troops have captured over 10,Oo0 Russian troops
during the past three days, besides destroying 171 tanks. It was
also announced that 232 Russian planes were destroyed during the
week starting from the 9th and ending on the 15th.
According to a dispatch from Berlin, the German Embassy in
Ankara denied circulating the peace proposal made by Germany toward
Britain, as published by the New York Times as a dispatch from
Ankara yesterday. German Ambassador to Turkey von Papen donied
meeting any reporter. The Gorman Foreign Office also denied this
report and made public Germany's determination to make Britain
yield through arms.
Tatsuta Maru, the first ship to be sent to America for the
evacuation of Japanese residents, arrived in Kobe from Yokohama
today with 158 passengers, outside of the 83 evacuees who returned
aboard the Taiyo Maru.
News of the arrival of Arima Maru, which went aground off
Peru and was salvaged by Japanose salvage experts, in Yokohama to-
day after a voyage of 48 days.
News of establishment of a closer relation between Brazil
and Japan through the conclusion of the cultural agreement on the
5th. To aid in the promotion of this close relation, a plan is
being made to write a biography of Chohatsu Nakamura, who died in
Brazil, in Japanese and Brazilian. Mr. Nakamura, ordered by the
Foreign Office, went to Brazil in Junc 1923 and engaged in the work
of propagating the Japanese spirit. He died at the age of 79 in
Brazil.
-2-

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.99)
An employee of the Mitsui Bussan Company's branch office
in Argentina returned on board the ship arriving in Yokohama on
the 19th. In regard to Argentina, he stated as follows: "Britain
has large investments in Argentina, and for a time Argentina, in-
stigated by Britain, opposed America. However, due to Britain's
defeat in Europe, America has been able greatly to strengthen her
economic pressure against Argentina lately. Nevertheless, duo to
lack. of American ships, products of Argentina are not being shipped
to America. As a result, Argentina is suffering a depression." In
regard to Colombia, he stated that America is likewiso strengthening
her oppression.
News of the exchange of arts between Japan and French
Indo-China. Pictures of thesc art objects sent by French Indo-
China published in today's issue of the Asahi Shimbun. These art
objects will be displaycd at the new museum to be constructed
shortly.
Comment on Current Events:
In his message of tho 17th to the Dict, Premier Tojo
pointed out the strongthening of the attompt of Amcrica, Britain
and the Netherlands to disrupt the peace of East Asia, both eco-
nomically and militarily and emphasized that since such an act not
only hampers the settlement of the China Incident, but also affects
the existence of our country, it absolutely cannot be overlooked,
thus making clear our determination. In regard to the condition
in the southern part of the Mutual Prosperity Sphere, Major Tominaga
of the Army Information Bureau stated as follows: "Inasmuch as they
are carrying out acts threatening our very existence and hampering
the creation of a new order in East Asia, we absolutely cannot over-
look their acts." Thus did he strongly express the determination of
our army. Today, let us hear what Major Kanetaro Tominaga of the
Army Information Bureau said: (Electrical transcription of his
talk). "The nations which are opposed to the creation of a new or-
der in East Asia have been carrying out military and economic co-
ercion against our country ever since the outbreak of the incident.
With the landing of our troops in French Indo-China especially, the
hostile nations, composed of America, Britain, Chungking, and Dutch
East Indies began to manifest bluntly their sinister hands and
formed the so-called ABCD anti-Japanese encirclement. Taking con-
certed action, thus, both militarily and economically, they have
oppressed and threatened our country and have needlessly stirred up
the waves of the Southwestern Pacific, as you probably are awarc of
through the newspapers and radio. Now let us consider the degree
of their anti-Japanese military oppression, as to whether their arma-
ment is sufficient to oppress and threaten our country. I believe
that this should be considercd seriously. It is America (?) who is
actively trying to strengthen the anti-Japanese encirclement as
-3-

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.99)
part of her defensc in the Southoastern Pacific. Malaya, Dutch
East Indies, India, Burma, and Chungking are nothing but puppets
who rely upon America, who has a formidable navy, and who have aim-
lessly formed the anti-Japanese encirclement. It must be said that
their attitude to remain complacent still, in spite of having lost
their self consciousness as nations of East Asia and of having
placed their fate in the bonds of America and Britain, is certainly
pitiful. Inasmuch as the anti-Japanese encirclement is such, we
should not be misled by the propaganda that we hear, but should.....
the sinister hands of America and Britain.
Hence, let us consider what the real strength of this
anti-Japanese encirclement is. Counting the troops of Malaya, Dutch
East Indies, Burma, Hawaii, Philippines, Hongkong, British Borneo
and India, it is estimated to be about 300,O0o. Besides this it
appears as if they have from 100 to 300 planes stationed at their
various air bases. In addition to this, when the troops under
Chiang Kai-Shek are included, the numerical strength of the anti-
Japanese encirclement amounts to over 300,000, besides close to, or
over, 1,O00 planes. However, this 1s merely an estimation. When
the armament of the various localitics is compared with that of the
previous world war, it can be said to have been increased two-fold
at least and 7 or 8-fold at places. In Malaya, for example, Britain
has stationed about 8 times more troops than the number stationed
there during the World War and with its main strength stationed
along the border of Thailand and Malaya, Britain is not only threat-
ening and obstructing Thailand's rapprochement toward Japan, but is
also cocrcing Thailand to join tho anti-Japanose encirclement. In
a word, several hundred thousand may sound liko a formidable mili-
tary strength, but since only a few are British, Australian, and
American troops and the greater part are native troops, not only is
their equipment and training very bad, but their spirit, military
discipline, and (effectiveness?) are, in a word, very poor and im-
perfect. Of course, their numcrical strength may amount to several
hundred thousand when counted as one, but since they are scattered
over a widc area, such as Burma, Yunan, and Dutch East Indics, they
cannot be cxpected to have the power of combination as that of the
army of a single nation.
It must be said that this fact is the grentest weakness
of the anti-Japanese encirclement, which Britain and America, who
are excellent propagandists, are desperately trying to strengthen
whenever possible. However, to say nothing of the quality of their
present numerical strength, it should be regarded as a matter of
grave concern that these nations of East Asia, misled by Britain
and America, are regarding our country as their enemy and are
strengthening their armaments on one hand and are conducting an
economic blockade to choke our country to death on the other hand.
Such acts, as to disregard their actual strength and cooperate in
-4-

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.99)
the attempt to check our country, who is striving to liberate East
Asia, even at the risk of war, should be regarded with grave con-
cern. So long as they continuo to carry out acts threatening our
very existence and obstructing the creation of a New Order in East
Asia, it is only proper for our country who, enduring the unbearable,
has tolerated their challenging acts and economic oppressions and
maintained the peace of tho Pacific, to be absolutely unable to
overlook the situation. At the same time, it is ncedless to state
that the time will come when we will have to show that there is a
limit to our patience. So long as one end of thc ABCD anti-Japanese
encirclement, as I have mentioned above, is America we will have to
strengthen further and solidify further our dotermination. In this
respect, I sincerely hope that the nation will strive to assume a
determined attitudc."
Japanese liusic - National Anthem
###
-5-

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.99)
tion JZI Program
te 11/21/41
Frequency 9,535 Kilocycles
News:
News of the closing ceremony of the Diet today and enact-
ment of 13 bills.
News of the achievements of recent session of the Diet:
Indicated to the people the nation's course, enhanced the spirit of
the nation and solidified the will of the people to overcome the pre-
sent emergency. Diplomatically speaking, it made clear our three
principles through Premier Tojo's speech and indicated our unshakable
determination to accomplish our aim.
News of the gubernatorial conference to be held on 24th
and the second national convention of the National Support Society in
December.
News of Premier Tojo's audience with the emperor this
morning to make a general report.
News of increasing number of volunteers volunteering for
military service since the revision of the military service regula:
tions.
News of the observance of thc 3Oth ann:versary of the
death of Marquis Komura, a great statesman of Miiji Era, to be held
shortly.
Hakone Maru, which was sent to the South Seas, and Hiye
Maru, which was sent to Europe, arrived in Kobe today with a great
number of evacuees from the South Seas and Europe.
News of the plan of the Japanese-German-Italian Friendship
Society to celebrate the fif th anniversary of the German-Japan-Italy
anti-comintern pact on the 25th and the 26th.
News of the Arrival of the pro-Japanese delegation of Mon-
golia arriving in Tokyo this morning. They are expected to stay in
Japan for about a weck.
News of a dispatch from Hanoi stating that Governor-Gene-
ral De Coux paid a return call of courtesy on Envoy Yoshizawa today.
According to a dispatch from Washington Envoys Nomura and
Kurusu called on Secretary of State Hull yesterday, in spite of it
being Thanksgiving Day, and conferred with him for one hour.
News of an AP dispatch of the 2Oth from Washington report-
ing an ex-senator's opinion in regard to the Japanese-American negotia-
tion that the acute situation on the Pacific can be solved by America's
decision to let Japan go ahead with her plan. (?)
-1-

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.99)
News of a Centon dispatch reporting the birth of a third
party opposing Chunking.
News of a New York dispatch reporting the statement of
Soviet Russia's People's Commissar of Foreign Affairs that Soviet
Russia's Far Eastern policy is based on the neutrality agreement with
Japan and is designed to preserve her friendly relations, and that he
can say nothing as to what act Russia will take in event of a Japan-
ese-American war.
Something about routes through which aid to Soviet Russia
will be sent. One is the route through Iran. It also mentioned
America's recent announcement to increase shipping to Persian Gulf.
It claimed that this is an indication that Britain and America. have
decided to abandon the northern route due to the damages caused by
German submarines.
News of a communique issued by the German High Command
reporting the smooth progress of the German war machine in Russia,
particularly the successes of the German ir force.
News of Russia admitting the withdrawal of her troops
from Kerch.
News of Stalin's criticism of the Russian troops. He
listed the defects and weaknesses, as follows: (1) Insufficient recon-
naissence. (2) No close connection between detachments. (3) Inef-
ficiency in the use of arms. (4) Hcedlessly advancing without
knowing
.(5) Becoming perturbed in a disadvantagcous situation
and deserting their ranks.
News of the s' tuation in North Africa. Situation made to
appear favorable to the Axis powers.
Vichy news portnining to the resignation of General Wey-
gand.
According to a dispatch fron Buenos Aires, America's dip-
lomatic coercion against Argentina is becoming stronger. That is,
Foreign Minister Amia (phonetic), of Brazil, who is planning to take
concerted action with America, sought a conference with Argentina's
foreign minister on the 2lst. Foreign Minister Amia (phonetic) stated
sometime ago that Brazil will have to abandon her neutrality in the
event America takes part in the war. Hence, it appcars as if he is
acting os a tool of America.
Comment on current events:
Topic "Japan's Coup d'etat": In view of the acute situa-
tion between Japan and America, as reported by news reports, I believe
that you, who are residing abroad, are very worried. Today, let us
look at the newspapers of Japan together and see how the people are
unitedly striving for the promotion of our country's prosperity with
an immovable determination and how Japan is prepared to cope with any
situation. Wha bluntly manifested this complete preparation and
-2

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.99)
determination of the people was the recent emergency session of the
Diet. Yesterday, all of the newspapers published on the first page
items pertaining to the conclusion of the emergency session and em-
phasized its significance. Firstly, let us read the Tokyo Nichi-
Nichi Shimbun. On the top of its first page, the Tokyo Nichi-Nichi
comments; "Although the 77th emergency session of the Diet was only
five days, it was certainly becoming of an cmergency legislative
session when the achievements of the members of the House of Commons
and Peers are considered. The perfect cooperation between the govern-
ment and the Diet was fully manifested due to the realization of tho
legislators that thc national policy should be carricd out at all cost!
Then, touching upon the Japanese-American negotiation, she concludes,
"No matter what the outcome of the Japanese-American negotiation may be,
our formidable footing of national unity to cope with any situation
makes us feel at ease. By this, our country will, nominally and vir-
tually, take a new step forward with national unity. By this emer-
gency session of the Dict, wc have been informed of the real facts
pertaining to the hostile nations surrounding our country and of the
determination of our army and navy to meet this situation by our war
and navy ministers, respectively." Then, in the center of the page,
she has a sardonic item entitlcd 'Will absolutely prcserve the peace
of the Pacific' and states, "Amidst the threat of the ABCD encircle-
ment, our imperial navy is maintaining an absolute silenee, but is
carrying on intense training both day and night. This silence and
training is nothing other than an iron-like determine tion to preserve
the peace of the Pacific. Look at the stately figure of Admiral
Isoroku Yamamoto, Commander-in-Chief of our combined fleet, who is
standing majestically on the dock of tho fla gship with a field-glass
in his handI In him, we are able to see the great confidence and re-
serve of our imperial navy." Thus, does she explain in this manner a
picture of Admiral Yamamoto looking through his field-glass over the
Pacific. On turning to her society pagc, wc find her commenting upon
Premier Pojo's message to the Diet, ospecially the following three
demands: (1) That the third powers refrain fron obstructing the accom-
plishment of the China incident, which Japan is striving for. (2) That
the nations aurrounding Japan not only refrain from carrying cut any
direct armed intimidation against Japan, but also liquidate such a
challcnging act as their economic blodk ade and restore normal economic
relation. (3) To prevent the spr ading of the European war into the
Far East. Then, next to that item is published the announcement of the
government on the 20th to reward those who had rendered distinguished
servicc at the front in this current incident. Here the patriotic
deeds of the soldiers are lauded. Now, let us look a t the Asahi Shim-
bun. At the top, the Asahi has an item pertaining to the success of
the recent energency session of the Dict and along side of it an item
pertaining to the Japanese-American negotiation. In it, she has dis-
patches from New York and Washington reporting the developments of the
Japanese-American negotiation. She also has a dispatch from London in
regard to the Japm ese-American negotiation, captioned "British Govern-
ment Silent. All newspapers desperately trying to check Japan." Be-
side this is published a picture of American Marines evacuating Shang-
hai. In addition to this, there is a four column dispatch from
Hanoi, captioned "Destruction of Hostile Nations Through Japan-French
Indo-China Economic Discussion." In this item is emphasized the close
relations of Japan and French Indo-China, and it is interesting to note
-3-

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.99)
in conjunction with the Japaese-Amcrican negotiation that real state
of French Indo-China cooperating with our country as a wing of the
East Asia Mutual Prosperity Sphere is reported within. Then, looking
on the Asahi's society page, we find that she has given one fourth of
that section to an item pertaining to a round-table conference dis-
cussing the honoring on inventors who had made excellent contributions
toward our country's military technique. In it, she lauds the excel-
lent weapons possessed by our armed forces. According to a statement
made by Col. Iyomasa (?) there are sone inventions pertining to our
military weapons that are far advanced of nations of the world.
Hence, the newspapers indicate that the determination of the nation
against the acute international situation has been solidified by the
emergency session of the Diet and that this determination is being
backed by our unshakable footing. The Tokyo Nichi-Nichi Shimbun is
presently sponsoring a music concert and in the society page of the
November 20th issue, it has an item, accompanied b, a picture, pertain-
ing to this. (Mentioned this item to show that the Japanese have the
placidity to enjoy music in this emergency. In this connection, the
commentator mentioned the publication of similar items showing this
placidity in the society page of the Yomiuri Shimbun and the Kokoumin
Shimbun): Amidst this placidity being shown within our country, it
can be said that the international situation centering around our
country is becoming very acute due to the unreasonable and irreflec-
tive attitude of America. Her revision of the Neutrality Law stipu-
lating the arming of her Merchant ships to enable them to sail into
the war zones can only be regarded as her attempt to spread the war
not only into East Asia, but throughout thc world. However, our peo-
ple, uniting with the Government as one, have not neglected to look
at this fast changing international situation correctly and to make
preparations to copo with the situation. In fact, the Kokumin Shimbun
has an article entitled "Overseas Japanese Resident' Round-table Con-
ference", in which is reported how you all are residing abroad. On
reading this item describing your effort and resolution, we have come
to feel greatly reassured. (Note: The Kokumin is usually considered a
Fascist paper - in the Orient. The article referred to should be in-
teresting - I presume the U.S. Naval attache has taken note. TWJ)
Each and everyone within our country is striving to make our country
grear. I sincerely hope that you, who are residing abroad will con-
tinue your effort to make our country great.
Japanese Music.
Japanese National Anthem.
-4~

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.99)
STATION JZI Program, 11/24/41
News of the gubernatorial conference held at the Premier's
residence today to strengthen the support of the various prefec-
tions toward the new cabinet. The conference was held throughout
the day.
On the morning of the 22nd when the second unofficial dis-
cussion was held between Secretary of State Hull nd Envoys Nomura
and Kurusu, Secretary of State Hull called together the diplomatic
representatives of Britain, Australia, Chungting ond Dutch East
Indies at the Department of State and held a discussion for about
3 hours. Nothing was made public in regard to the matters dis-
cusses, but it is believed that they discussed the problems per-
taining to Japan. In this connection tho Tokyo Asahi and Yomuiri
Shimbuns expressed the sentiment of our country, as follows: The
fact that Secretary of State Hull is holding conferences with the
representatives of Britain, Australia, Chungking, and Dutch East
Indies in conjunction with the Japanese-American negotiation is
greatly exciting the people of our country. This is because it
Is believed that Secretary of State Hull is reporting the progress
of the Japanese-American negotiation to these hostile nations to
enable them to devise counter-measures. Hence, America's anti-
Japenese attitude cannot be ignored. Nevertheless, since our mind
is set, the hostile nations should nov that any  ind of intimida-
tion or coercion is useless. This is because we are prepared to
wipe away their oppression and accomplish pur aim.
According to a dispatch from Hongkong, Chungking, who is
paying great attention to the Japanese-American negotiation, re-
portedly hes sent another plea to Americe. That is, she sent the
following instructions to Hu Shih, Chinsse Ambassador in Washing-
ton, on the 22nd., "The proposal of limiting peace between Japan
and America only on the Pacific is but on idle dream if the
present conditions are to be left alone. Chung ing will reject any
peace ignoring her position."
The foreign office touay announced that the Tatuta Maru will
be :ent to America to evacuate Japanese residents in Los Angeles
and Balboa in accordance with an und rstanding reached between
Japan end America. She will leave as soon as h r preparations
are complete sometime within this month. Already i,70o ovacuces
have returned.
News of the success of the Jepenese troops' operation in
the southern part of Shantung Province.
According to a dispatch from Saigon, Japenese gendamerie
in French Indo-China arrested 90 Chungking ©gents on the mom ing
of the 22nd in Saigon. The arrested agents reported had come from
Singapore area recently.
-1-

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.99)
STATION JZI Program, 11/24/41, con't.
According to a dispatch from Canton, the new party, which
was organized in March of this year to take the place of Kuomintang
Party, hes become so strong today that it is throwing a great fear
upon Chiang Kai-shek. It is receiving the great support of the
ma sses.
Tho Nanyo Kaiun ship, Nissho Maru, arrived in Fobe this
morning with 4ll evacuees from the South Sea area.
News of fierce fighting being staged at Moscow front with
Gurman troops making steudy gains.
News of Russian troops retreating in Crimea.
News of Russia admitting the withdrawal of her troops from
Rostov.
News of German troops closing in on Moscow (record faded
into the noise).
News of British troops maintaining their edvantage in Libya.
(However, only the losses suffered by Britain were broadcast.)
News of a aispatch from Rome reporting that Hitler, Mussolini,
and Petain will meet somewhere in France in the immodiste future to
devise a plen for the joint defense of Italian and Frencn posses-
sions in Africa.
Comment of current events:
Topic "Review of the domestic events of the pnst week".
This week was certainly an epochal week for Japan, and the eyes
of the world were focused upon two places. One wes the White
House; where the Jepanese-American negotietio: is prosently being
carried on, and the other upon our Imperial Assembly Hall,
where the emergency session of the Diet was held. The emorgoncy
session of the Diet, which was started fron the 15th, wes brought
to an end on the 20th after having enhanced the spirit and en-
thusiasm of the nation. The mission of this session was to
clarify the aggraveted international situation to the nation and
strengthen the unshakable determination of the nation. This
mission of the Diet was successfully cccomplished by the determina-
tion of the government expressed in Premier Tojo's message to the
Diet on the I7th and the resolution of the Diet to give whole-
he arted support to the government. (Mentioned the speedy enactment
of the various important bills nd appropriations.) To carry out
these now enactments, Finance Minister Kaya stated before the
Diet that the present cconomy of the natlon is more t.an suffi-
cient. At the same time, it is needless to mention that the
-2-

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.99)
STATION JZI Program, 11/24/41, con't.
imperial armed forces are fully prepared to meet any emergency.
This fact was attested by the military authorities bofore the
finance committee meeting of the House of Commons on the same day,
thus enhsncing the confidence of the nation in the armed forces.
Thus, this session of the Diet was ended on 20th with historic
achievements. Therefore, it can be expected that th. government
will continue to strive for the nccomplishment of h r established
policy, and it is needless to mention that the nation will co-
operate with the government for the accomplishment of her aims
in spite of the changes that will be brought about in their life
through the enforcement of increased taxation. (llentioned the
activities of Premier Tojo during this sussion. One of these was
his sarly morning visits to Yosukuni Shrine. Also mentioned the
grester attendance of foreign correspondents. Then, followed
news not pertaining to the session. These were the announcement
of the list of soldiers to be rewarded for their distinguished
services at the front, the announcement of the naval personnel
shake-up on the 20th--sppointment of Vice-Admiral Tokutaro
Sugiyama, commandant of the Sasebo navel bese, as a member of
the Supreme War Council; appointment of Vice-Admiral Umataro
Tanimoto as commandant of Sasebo naval bnse; and appointment of
Vice-Admiral Fukashi Kobeyashi as cormendant of Asaka naval base;
the revision of the military service regulations on the 22nd;
the visit of the members of the Tokyo Women's Associntion to a
certcin military barracks to acquire militery knowlodge on the
2lst; and the exhibition of art exhibits for the sick nd wounded
soldiers held at a certain place).
Japenese music.
Japanese National Anthen.
-3-

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.94)
December 23, 1941
BEOMIVED
00.21
COMSUN
PESONAL AND
BY SPLCIAL MESSENGER
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
894.76/ 71
DECY11941
Washington, D. C.
MF.
Dear Mr. Berle:
For your information and as of possible
4.76
interest, there are attached hereto translated tran-
scripts of radio broadcasts from Tokyo, Japan, for
the dates November 13, 14 and 16, 1941.
Sincerely yours,
Le. 24oover
Enclosures
JAN 5 1942
Feh
PS/LH
sich of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1941
Department of Stay
DECLASSIFIED
71
NARS, Date 56.484

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.98)
1ON JZI Program
ce 11/13/41
(ab)
Frequency 9,535 Kilocycles.
News:
The cavinet today held an emergency meetin to make
preparations for the coming emergency session of the Diet. All of
the cabinet ministers attended and the drafts or the speeches of
the premier, the foreign ninister and the finance minicter were
presented for approval, besides the various measuros to be pre-
sented to the Diet. Then, it was decided that acommittee of three,
composed of Premier Tojo, Foreign Minister Togo and Finance
Minister Kaya, call upon the emperor at Havama Palace and receive
his approval on all of the moasures.
Preparations are being mado by the government to con-
struct an art muscum in commemoration of the birth of the crown
prince. An appropriation of 700,000 yen has beon sct aside for
the construction of this museum, which will be constructed in tho
heart of Tokyo.
According to a dispatch fron Washington, Special Envoy
Kurusu, who is hurrying to Washington on an important mission,
will arrive in washington later than scheduled due to an ongine
trouble to the China Clipper. However, if ho arrives in San
Francisco on the 14th, he will be in Washington by the norning
of the 15th. Upon his arrival in Washington, Special Envoy Kurusu,
of course, will firstly confer with Aabassador Nomura and then
confer with tho leaders of America. However, the Now York Times of
the 12th states that sineo President Roosevelt is scheduled to go
to Georgia this coming Sunday, he probably will have no time to
confer with Special Envoy Kurusu. Hence, it scems es if the
presidont is purposely trying to avoid mecting Special Envoy Kurusu.
Howevor, sincc his conforencc with Special Envoy is a matter of
groat importance, the presidont may not go to Goorgia . and if he
goos, it will havo no conncction with tho arrival of Special Envoy
Kurusu. Therefore, it is oxpected that Spccial Envoy Kurusu, to-
gother with Ambassador Nomura, will begin negotiations as schodulod.
At any rato, the loadors of America will not givo a cold choulder
to Special Envoy Kurusu.
According to a dispatch from Hashington, Secretary of
Stato Hull, in an intervicw with newspaper roportors yestcrday,
stated that oven if a conforence is held betwcon tho president
and Spocial Envoy Kurusu, Ambassador Momura .....
(Rocord died out). In regard to the statomont mado by Promier
Churchill that Britain will takc joint action with America
immediatoly if the Japanoso-American nogotiation should ond in a
failure, Secretary of State Hull rcfused to co mont upon it.
-1-

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.99)
Commenting upon the Japanese-American negotiation and
hurchill's statement, Editor Gayda of the Journal d' Italia
stated as follows: "With a desire to maintain peace on the Pacific,
America, besides watching the situation on the Atlantic, is trying
to soothe Japan and conclude the Japanese-American negotiation.
This is an attempt to alienate Japan from the Axis powers. 
On the other hand, Premier Churchill's speech is an indication
that America is already taking an active part in the war and is a
threat of war against Japan. Hence, Japan should be able to per-
ceive now the scheme of the Anglo-Saxon race in East Asia".
The Tatuta Maru, which left San Francisco for Jepan on
the 2nd, will arive in Yokohama on the 14th, according to a
joint announcement made by the ministries of foreign affairs and
communication. Furthermore, the Taiyo Maru and the Hikawa Maru
are expected to arrive in Yokohama soon.
A summary of the achicvcments of the Japanese troops
operating in Shansi and other places for the month of October is
as follows: 6,194 enemy troops killed; 5,491 captured, besides
numerous other arms and ammunition.
A summary of the achievements of the Japanose troops
operating in the provices of Kiangsu, Chekiang and Anhwci for the
month of Octobe was announced as follows: Fought 287 times
against an enemy of 45,000. Killed 4,385, captured 1,886. 559
surrendered. 41 trench mortars, besides many other arms and
ammunition, were taken.
According to a dispatch from Nanking, the studonts of
Chungking, who are cognizant of the situation in East Asia, have
come to realizo the meaninglessness of continuing the war, and
their anti-war sontimont reportedly has sproad throughout China
and is on the verge of breaking out. Furthermore, according to
a survey made by the magazine "Seinen Kishi", which is being
published in Hongkong, the students in the intorior are loading
a dismal life. That is, duo to the shortage of food-stuffs, they
aro unable to buy any and duo to thc faninc, studonts of 37 middle
schools roportedly have closed down. Due to the same reason, the
Contral University of Chungking and two others reportedly are
about to tako a similar action.
In regard to the arrival of Special Envoy Yoshizawa in
Hanoi on the 8th, Governor-Goneral Dc Coux sent a messago of
welcome through Cormissioncr-Goneral Gocthe. In reply to this,
Special Envoy Yoshizawa yestorday sont tho following messago to
Governor-Gencral Do Coux: "My mission is to make closer the
relations between Japan and French Indo-China, based upon the
various troaties concludod botwecn the two countries sometime ago.
I hope to accomplish my task through your hclp and that of the
Fronch Indo-Chinesc govcrnment. In as much as both countries
havc promised to cooporato closely, it is ncedless to montion
that tho rolations should bo based on mutual relianco and respcct".
-2-

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.98)
According to a dispatch from Bangkok, a spokosman of
the Thailand govornment on the night of tho loth issued a warn-
ing over tho radio to the effect that war has becomc inevitable.
Hencc, the nation, togother with the soldiers, should prepare
for war and bo loyal to the cnd. The fact that Thailand, which
ms tried to remain strictly neutral, has now been forced to warn
the nation to be propared for war is n indication that she cen
no longer romain noutral because of tho coercive actions of
Britain and America.
According to a dispatch from Bhanghai, the nti-British
movement in India, lately, has bocome very strong. Th t is, the
Indian ........... party recontly adopted a resolution civocating
the complcte independonce of India and tho establishment of a new
constitution. On the other hand, the social unrost caused by
Britain's policy of regulatod oconomy has sproad throughout India.
As a result, labor strikes aro occuring at various places. Further-
morc, thc Indian Society of Shanghai on the 4th adopted a resolution
boycotting British goods, refusing to enlist in the British army
and rofusing to work in British managed firms.
According to a dispatch from London, the plane, carrying
Soviet Ambassador to Central Amcrica Litvinov (phonetic) and
Amorican Ambassador to Sovict Russia Stienhart (phonetic), hes
failed to arrivo in Tchran on schodule and is believed to be lost,
according to an announcement made by the Information Burcau yos-
terday.
According to a dispatch from Vichy, Gen. Hunziger,
minister of war of the Vichy government, was killed in a plano
crash yesterday at a point northwest of Marscilles. He reportedly
was roturning from frice, where he had boen inspocting the do-
fenso of tho French possossions. He wus 61 years old.
According to a radio broadcast from Moscow intcrcoptod
in London, the German troops prosontly re staging a furious
attack on Tula, south of Moscow. Furthormorc, according to a
communiquo issucd by tho Gorman High Conmand yosterday, the
allied troops of Gormany and Hungary operating on tho castorn
coast of Crimea advanced to a point south of Kefe yesterday.
According to a dispatch from Stockholm, Stalin reportodly
appointed Admiral Kurumeth (phonetic), people's commissar of naval
arfairs and commander-in-chief of the Russian floct, as commander-
in-chief of the Red army in Crimea. This is being rogarded as a
move to restrengthen tho Rod army in Crimca in vicw of the aggra-
vation of the situation at Sovastopol and Kefe.
According to a dispatch from Berlin, it appears as if
Gormany has strongthened hor dotermination to bo prepared to
fight against America, in vicw of the fact that America's partici-
pation in the war has become obvious. In his specch of tho 8th,
Chancellor Hitler adnittod the fact that ho has issued an order
to the Gorman navy to fire in solf-dofonse. Furthcrmore, accord-
ing to the opinion of well-informed sourco in Germany, America is
-3-

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.98)
ot prepared to send troops to Europe yet and America's political
and economic friction will become groator in t he cvent she takos
part in the war. And in view of the lessening of Britain and
America's hope of victory due to the imminent downfall of Russia,
it is believed that Amorica will not takc an actual part in the war.
According to a dispatch from Washington, America's attempt
to bring about peace between Finland and Sovict Russia has ended in
a failure, but thero is still a problom remaining in rogard to Soviet
Russia's request to America to act as the arbitrator. (Record indis-
tinct). In regard to this, Secretary of tate Hull in an invorview
with newspaper reporters on the 12th stated that tho pearo proposal
was brought by the Soviet ambassador on the order of the home
government. If Soviet Russia denies this fact, it must be regarded
that America undertook this task on hor own initiative or had boen
tricked into doing so by Sovict Russia. At any ratc, America's
failure to bring about tho conclusion of peacc bctwoon Soviet Russic
and Finland can be attributod to tho fact that she is not fully
aware of the roalities. She is showing a sinilar lack of knowlcdge
in regard to Chungking.
According to a dispatch from Washington, Prosident Roose-
velt has decided to take a hand in the coal mincrs' strike, which
is thrcatoning to become morc scrious due to the failurc on the
part of the modiation board. That is, the prosidont has issued
an invitation to Presidont John L. Levis, of the CIo United Mino
Workers, and scvoral leaders of stcel companics to discuss the
matter with him at tho Whito House on the 14th.
According to a dispatch from Chicago, the five railroad
workers' unions, having hcadquartors in Chicago, yestcrday issued
an order to their 350,000 mombors to go on a strike fron Decomber
?.
Talk by Denzo Naomi, of Chugai Shogyo, on tho coming
emergency session of tho Dict: The much discussed emergency
session of the Diet will be convoked, at last, on the day after
tomorrow, and it is necdloss to mention at this time that consider-
able attention is bcing directed toward this emergency session of
the Diet from within and outsido of our country. When the Konoye
cabinet resigned en-bloc and was succeeded by the Tojo cabinet last
month, it drew the attontion of the world. is to the character of
the new Tojo cabinet, which is cxpected to carry out the established
policy, it will bo definitely made knowm through this emergency
session of the Diet. I believo this is the fifth time that an
cmergency session of the Diet has been callcd in the history of Japan.
Tho first was called when the Sino-Japanose War broke out. The
second was callod in connection with the Russo-Japanose war. The
third was convokod during tho Manchurian incident and the fourth was
held in connection with the China incidont. It appoars as if they
were all convoked at an important time when the fate of the nation
was at stake. Nevertholess, the fact that the fifth omergoncy
session of the Diet is to be convokcd at a tine whon tho Japaneso-
Americnn nogotiation reportedly is dead-locked makos us fool the
existence of an ultra emergoncy etmosphere cven without on explanation.
-4

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.97)
to how tho established policy of Japan, who is striving to
reate an East Asia mutual prosperity sphore and thus contribute
toward the cstablisiment of a new world peace, will be carried
out, it is expected that Prenier Tojo s messago to tho Dict, which
will be given on the first day of the session, will give a hint to
it. It is reported that tho text of Prericr Tojo's speech will
amphasize the accomplishment of the China incident, which has
already been going on for the past five yoars, tho strengthening
of our country's relations with tho Axis powers and thc dctermina-
tion of the nation to unite as one end fight against the hostilo
nations, which are attempting to obstruct tho cstablichront of the
greater East sia rutual prosperity sphero, and thus urgo the
cooperation of the nation. In fact, whon the attitudo of the
government toward tho emergeney sossion is considered, Wo find
that the so-called old ideas pertaining to the Diet have all been
dono away with and that tho government has bcon striving for
national mobilization ever since its detcrmination to hold an
emorgency sossion of the Dict. (Record indistinct). For oxample,
it can be said that the reorganization of the administrative system
in order to do away with the evil practices of many years has done
away with the grcat obstaclo hanpering tho officioncy of national
life. Such devotion and detormination of the govermment to over-
come tho enorgoncy has ponetrated into the national strate, and the
national sentimont arising from it is being fully reflected within
both housos of the Dict. As a result, both houses reportedly has
decided to ignore the customary discussion proccdurc and give full
support to whatever bill suggosted by the govornmert. For oxamplo,
the mombers of tho National Support Party of the House of Comaons
have decided to introduce a resolution to give whole-hearted
support and encouregenent toward the govcrnnent's determination as
a moans to comply with Promier Tojo's messago cna to realize the
solidarity among tho government, the Dict and the poople. Should
this be actuelly x rfomcd by the Dict, it will influcnce tho
people and cnhence the national spirit. Properly speaking, the
principal mattors to be discussed at thc coming sossion of the Diot
are tho omorgency military appropriation for the accoiplisiment of
tho China incident, the preposed increase of taxation for tho pur-
pose of ............. and the increase of production powor for the
purpose of guarantceing the production of food-stuffs. Besides
these, it is needloss to montion that tho attention of the Diet as
well as the nation is focused upon the disposition of the merican
problcms. Exactly 75 days have passed since Konoye's mossage was
sent to Prosidont Roosevolt on ugust 25, and just when it appcared
as if the Japanose-American nogotiation had reached a stalc-mato,
it was announced that p cial Envoy Kurusu will be sent to
Washington to assist Ambassador Nomura in tho Japaneso-American
negotiation. Outside of his apparcnt purpose, thc nature of his
role and mission is not known, but it is a fact that tho dispatching
of Kurusu has caused the appcaranco of a now ripplo on thc surface
of the present Japmesc-imerican relations. In conncction with this,
a thoughtful newspaperman of America is urging tho Washington govern-
ment to roconsider hor Far Eastorn policy. By sonding Spccial Envoy
Kurusu to America, Japan has givon Imerica a final opportunity to
avoid the dangor of her two ocoan policy. This is tho time for hor
to reconsidor tho Far Eastern policy carried out by hcr in tho past.
-5-

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.97)
onder what this viow cxplains to us. The ABCD anti-Japancse
ncirclement, which is hcadod by merica and also includes Sovict
Russia, is being strengthened all tho nore. Furthermore, Amcrica
has ordcred tho evacuation of all Amcricen women and children from
the islands of Guam, Wake and idway and also has announced her
intention to withdraw hcr marines from Peking, Tiontsin and Shang-
hai. Besides, influontial government lcaders have introduced a
bill in Congress giving tho prowident the power to onforco martial
law in Hawaii and Puorto Rico. Hence, it scems that she is prepar-
ing for a war with Japan. Furthermore, on the night of tho 8th,
our foroign offico announced that our country hns lodged a strong
protest against tho unprccedentod outragoous act of tho government
of Panama in rogard to hor decrco prohibiting Japanoso rosidents
to engago in business and thus cutting off thcir sourcc of living.
When the fact that America, who is trying to exclude Japanoso fron
the Panama Canal zone, had a hand in the coup d'etat that ousted
the former Presidont rias and that tho new government regimo of
Panama, headed by Prosident Guardia, is a puppet government of
Amcrica is considored, it can be rcadily seon that America also
had a hand in this now action of the Panamanian government. As a
rosult of this, 380 Japanese rosidonts of Panana have suddenly been
cut off from their source of livelihood und havo not ovon been .
given the timo to dispose of their stocks in hand. Furthermore,
they are facing a prodicamont of boing unablo to rcturn to Japan
duo to tho lack of transportation. To my way of thinking, such
actions of Amcrica can only be considcred as lacking in sincerity
toward the Japanese-American nogotiation or as boing based upon
her conclusion in regarl to the outcone of the Japanosc-imerican
nogotiation. Such being the case, the significance of Kurusu's
mission to imerica cannot help but end in a failuro. In regard
to our attitude at this time, I believe that tho cmorgeney sossion
of the Diet, which is to be convoked tho day after tomorrow, will
give a bettor and more fitting oxplanation than I can. In other
words, I believc Spccial Envoy Kurusu will bc in Waslington by
tomorrow, and our Diet, which will be convoked at bout tho stme
time, will soriously watch whcther tho merican goverrment will
heed the warning of thoughtful mericans and act with prudonce.
And I believe our country's proparation to bo able to cope with
any cmorgency will be ..........
.........nd our detormina-
tion will be prosented to the government through this emergency
sossion of tho Dict.
Hawaiian music.
Japanese national anthom.
-6-

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZI Program
Date 11/14/41
Frequency 9535 Kilocycles
Japanese Music
News:
The emergency session of the Diet is now a
day off. At yesterday's cabinet, drafts of the messages
to be given by Prenier Tojo, Foreign Minister Toga and
Finance Minister Kaya were approved. The three ministers
today called on the mperor at Hayama Palace to seek his
approval. At this morning's session all preparations for
the coming session were completed. It was also decided to
broadcast throughout Japan, Premier Tojo's message which
will be given on the first day of the session. This mes-
sage will also be broadcast to you Japanese abroad.
To determine and make public to the vo rld the
fixed policy of Japan, the government has decided to hold
a meeting of the rural government heads on the 24th. It
will be held for one day only and will be presided over
by Premier Tojo.
The bill for the increase of taxation was adopted
at yesterday's cabinot meeting. It will become effective on
Dec. Ist. In regard to this bill, Dr. Masctaka Ohta, mani-
festing the sentiment of the people, stated that thc people
will support this taxation law, to win c. war, such t axation
must be carried out.
....Something about the motto a dopted for the
coming National Servicc Day on December 1st.
The Tatsute Liaru, returning wi th e vacuccs from
America, arrived off Yokohama this afternoon. On board
were Rikuo...hare, Juji Kasai, and the editor of San Frn
cisco's Shinsekai Asahi Shimbun, who is schedulcd to give ε
talk at Hibiya Park on the 18th.
Something about (a) great hangar (s) completed
at Palao and (?) Timor and its inaugural c eremony to be held
on the 22nd.
Something about a Viscount Takasugi passing
away this morning. He wcs Financc Minister of the Saionji
Cabinet snd a member of the Housc of Peers. He was also
chairman of the recent 26 Centennial Annivcrsary Preparation
Committee.
-1-

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.98)
tation JZ Program
Date 11/14/41
According to & despatch from Washington, the
Japanese Embassy received a radiogram from Special Envoy
Kurusu that he will arrive in Washington on the 15th. The
Japanese Embassy is making various arrangements with the
Department of State, but the actual negotiation is expected
to take place next weck. However, Special Envoy Kurusu mey
pay a call of courtesy on Pres. Roosevelt and Sccretary of
State Hull on the day of his arrival in Washington. When
qestioned in Honolulu on the 13th, Special Envoy Kurusu
stated that preservation of the peacc of the Pacific is
the responsibility of both Japan and America and that he
will do his t est wi th this conviction in mind. He also
stated that he reccived no message from the Japanese Gaorn-
ment.
According to a despatch from Hanoi, Consul
Uchiyama, who had becn in Hanoi preparing the office of
Special Envoy Yoshizawa, is expected to leave for Saigon to-
day in view of Special Envoy Yoshizawa's arrival. Uchiyama
is expccted to direct the Saigon branch of the special envoy
office.
According to a dispatch from Bm gkok, the meeting
of the demarcation Conmittee for the settlement of the border
of Thailand and French Indo-China was started today at the
University of......... in Bangkok.
According to a despatch from Bangkok, a negotia-
tion for the exchanging of Ambassadors reportedly has been
concluded between Germany and Thailand. Hence, the leg: tions
of both countries will be raised to the s tindard of an
ombassy.
According to a dispa.tch from Nanking, Chungking
reportedly is assuming a policy to consent to any domand
made by Britain in connection with presurvetion of tho Burma
route. Hence, it has been reported that Chungking accepted
a recent British protest agad nst the entry of a grc:t number
of Chinese into Burma. As a result, the Chinose imaigrants
of the south reportedly sent & radiogram of protost to Chung-
king.
Acording to a communiquc issued by the German
High Command yostorday, the Gorman troops operating in the
Crimen, at present, are bombarding Kerch and have takon the
southern part of Kerch , while the German Air Force raided
Sevastopol, Kerch and the eastern shores of the Black Sea,
-2-

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.98)
Station JZI Program
Date 11/14/41
destroying onc destroyer and five merchant ships. At the
eastern front German Troops reportedly are unlcashing a
furious attack against Moscow and Leningrad.
According to a Berlin despatch received by the
Asahi Shimbun, the German High Command announced on the 12th
the destruction of hussien supply trains during che 1l days
period starting from Novenber 1 tnd ending cn Hevember 11
as follows: The Gcrman cir force destroyed over 60 supply
tra ns and damaged 422 others, besides destroying about 100
engines.
During the British parliamentary session of the
13th, Rep..........., of the Labor Party, kecnly criticized
the weakness of the British troops. He stated that if the
allied air forces of Britain and russia are winning, as
claimed by Prenier Churchill, isn't it a scricus mistake that
a second war front has not been established in the west? He
concludodthat this hed not been done beccuse the government
has no confidence in withstm ding the German cffonsc. In
regurd to the concentration of British troops in the Fir Ecst,
he stated that this should not be done as it vill have a
fatal offect on Britein's defonse and victory.
According to  dispatch from Vichy, Wr Minister..
reportedly died in a plece crash northwest cf finrseilles
on his way back from in inspection tour of the defense of
the French possessions in Afric.. As a result, it his bcen
decided to hold a s tate funeral in honer of the war minister.
The funerel will be held in Vichy on the 15th.
According to a despatch from London, the plane,
carrying Russian Ambassador Lithovinov und American Ambassador
to Russic Stienhart, which had been reportcd lost, has not
yot been found. This plane was expected to reach Tehran
on the llth.
The House of Reprosentatives on the 15th re-
portedly pass the Neutrality Law Revision Bill by a vote
of 121 to 194. Hencc, with the passing of this bill american
ships will be armed end be alloved to enter the war zones.
In other words, America will now actually be a participint
in the current war and t his will result in the aggravation
cnd disruption of humanity.
Comment on Current Events:
Topic: "Forcign and domestic conditions centcring
-3-

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.97)
ation JZI Program
atc 11/14/41
around the emergency session of the Diet": The 77th emergency
scssion of the Dict, upon which the attention of the werld
has buen focused, will at last be held tomorrov. The Tojo
Cabinet, which has been making preparations fcr the emergency
session, approved thc messages of Premier Tojo, Fereign Minis-
tor Togo m d Finance Minister Kay. at yesterdays' meeting.
On the other hand, members of both houses mect en the 12th
nd 13th tc dccide the attitude to be tcken during the
omergendy session of the Diet. Hence, it can be srid that the
propars.tions for tho emergency session of the Diet, which
will be held tc announco anew the fixed policy of Japan,
have been completed. in regard to the significiance of the
emorgeney scssion, Mr. Denzo Naomi til ked about it in his
specch yesterday. Tcday, I would liko to talk of its signi-
ficance from another angle. As you all know, Tojo's cabinet
was formed as a. cabinet : dopting and carrying cut the
principles of the fermer cabinct. The strong determination
of the cabinet te carry out the established pelicy imncdiately
gai ned the confidence of the nation. Nevertheless, the
significance of the comine sossion of the Diet lies in the
fact that tho Tojo cabinet will make known to the world the
noasures it will carry out in order to cstablish the East
Asin Mutual Prospority Sphere and ccntribute to world peace.
It is necdless to mention that cur fixcd pelicy is of an
eternal nature, but it cen be said that to ritke clcur the
mission of our country, whiclh is being oppressed by the over
changing situation surrounding it, hs a great significunce.
That is, the Pacific problem in East Asic is in a critical
state, while a new develcprent in the Eurepeen war is tuking
place. Besides, meric.'s participation in the war has be-
come very certain, of late. At such a time, it cn be
expected that Premier Toje und Foreign Minister Togo's
mossages will have a great ffcct upon Japan as well s the
world, for net only will these ressages moke clear our
country's course, but alse the......ef the natien. is I
have repeatodly stated, cur country is making every effort
to establish a new world peace, which she rog rds as her
highest ideal. In spite of this, Britain and mericr are
lccking at our motive with colored glasses. As a result,
the world is about to be pulled dovm into the botton cf the
well of unhappiness. On the 10, Premier Churchill stcted
that if America fights Japan, Britain will inmedi: tely de-
cl:re war against Jap:n. Then, on the 1lth, President
Roosevelt asserted that merica would toke purt in the war
immediately, if necessary, and Secretary of Navy Knox, too,
-4-

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.96)
ation JZI Program
Date 11/../41
stated thst the Far Eastern situation can ne longer be re-
garded lightly and that the time has come to make a decision.
These remarks can be regardud as the sly scheme of the le nders
of americcn und Britain to excite the sentiment or thc
Imerican pecple in faver of wer. Nevertheless........
(interruptod by static)...cur country cannct ign thuse
remarks. In this manner, the leaders of meric n iave com-
plotely won over Britain, Chungking nd the utc: East Indies
in the Far East und: re strengthening the enti-Jap nese
circlenent from the pelitic.l, the military, the eccnomical
and cther cspects. at prcsent, cur Special Envoy Kurusu is
hurrying on his way to Weshington, but so long as such
knowledge of Britain and meric:. in reg rd to the Far Etst is
not renewed, much cannot be cxpected frem the Juponese-meri-
cun negoti tion. On the ther hand, lct us censiuer the
situatien in regard tc Chungking. The incident, which has
becn protracted for four ye rs, is now r bout to dcvelop into
4. world war, end Chungking whe persenally regards herstlf
as merica's watchdog (?), is cbout to sacrificc her people
and ours in a final clash. Thus, the situation in E.st
Asia is abcut to go aground on an unfertunate shoal due
te the unrcasoneble coercien of Brituin nd .eric. and
cur country's grc t mission of cre ting n East si. lutu:1
Prosperity Sphere, tec, is about to be obstructed by their
dishonerable ambition to dominate the world. Now, let us
censider the situation within Japen. The new cabinct, forned
by Premier Tojo, is functioning strongly :nd effuctivuely duc
to the cooperation on the part of Fereign Minister Toge nd
Pinanco Minister Kaya. as a result, the v rieus measures
planned by the s ccond Konoye cubinet re being carried out
gradually. Hence, the establishnent of the netien defense
footing is taking definite shape. In other werds the natiens
political support fcoting is being retlizcd threugh the
Natienul sup ert movenent (Recerd indistinet). In  werd,
it cin be suid thit thc spiritual and materiil preparation
necessary fcr the cstablishment of  war footing is approachingg
conplction with & streng cnd firm fcundation. Hence, the 77th
energency session of the Diet is to be cenvoked enidst the
aforomentioned aggrav.ted internaticnal situatio.. Further-
more, when the immedi te future is ccnsidercd, it con be seen
that the unhappinessof Britain end neric: will be increr sed
all the moro through Anerica's revision of the Neutrality
Law. Honce, in the cmorgency sessicn of the Diet, which will
be convoked amidst such & situation, the governnent as well
-5-

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.97)
ation JZI Program
Date 11/14/41
as the nation will renew their determination to furthor
the mission of prometion of world pecce as well as the peace
of East Asia, which can be regarded as a part of thc g reat
task to promote world peace, and show to the verld cur
determination to wipe away the anti-Jupancse mcirclement
through the destruction of the hostile naticns for the accom-
plishment of our historic rission. Hercin lics tie greut
significance of the emergeney session of the Diet. Out
country, us ropeatcily st tea, hus completod its preparations,
both militarily and ccononically, nd is c rnestly watching
the trend of the internatienal situaticn. Hence, no matter
whet the hostile nations may do, our country wili not be
moveu. In closing, I would like to state thet the naticn
is burning with the spirit to accomplish its sucrcd mission
on the eve of the cenvocation of the omergeney sessien of the
Diet.
Jepanese Music
Station Identifie: tion
Japancse Nationel nthen.
-6-

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.99)
rogram
9535 Kilocycles
News: (Record not very distinct)
The Emperor today attended the opening ceremony of the
77th emergency session of the Diet, which was actually convoked yes
terday. After the ceremony of the opening, the House of Commons
adopted a resolution thanking the officers and men fighting at
the front. A similar resolution was adopted by the House of Peers.
Several measures of an urgent nature were discussed in bot'! houses,
also. (Text of the resolution was read).
According to a dispatch from Washington, the great trans-
continental plane, carrying Special Envoy Kurusu, arrived in Washing-
ton at 7:30 o'clock last night giving him no opportunity to shake
hands with Ambassador Nomura, the newspaper reporters crowded him.
Later he left for the Japanese Embassy together with Ambassador
Nomura and had dinner there with the members of the Embassy. He is
expected to spend the 16th in conference with Ambassador Nomura and
start his negotiation from the 17th. In an interview with Japanese
newspapermen on the 15th, Envoy Kurusu stated that the American
Navy offered to furnish a Navy Plane to Honolulu (during the Midway
breakdown of the Clipper). He also stated that there is still room
for an understanding, though it is difficult. With the arrival of
Envoy Kurusu, the attention of the world has been cast toward the
scheduled meeting between President Roosevelt and Secretary of State
Hull, and Ambassador Nomura and Envoy Kurusu on the 17th. In regard
to America's attitude toward the coming of Envoy Kurusu it can be
mentioned that Pres. Roosevelt postponed his proposed trip. On the
other hand, she has shown an attitude to avoid the Japanese-American
negotiation. It is hoped that America will cast away her misunder-
standing and doubt and show some sincerity toward the preservation
of the peace of the Pacific. It is expected that Envoy Kurusu will
frankly relay the real sentiment of Japan. Hence, everything will
depend upon the attitude of America.
Special Envoy Yoshizawa, who is in French Indo-China
stated, "Whatever situation may arise, French Indo-China is prepared".
In connection with the Pacific problems, the position of French Indo-
China is drawing considerable attention, but, Envoy Yoshizawa
stated, "French Indo-China, where the interests of America, Britain,
Dutch East Indies and France are complicated, will be effected by
the Japanese-American negotiation, but no matter how the negotiation
develops, it is necessary for us to be prepared to meet whatever
situation that may arise and this preparation has al ready been com-
pleted".
According to a dispatch from Saigon, Minister Uchiyama,
head of the Saigon branch of Envoy Yoshizawa's office, paid a call
of courtesy on Governor-General De Corex (?) is expected to go to
Hanoi by plane en the 17th and confer with Envoy Yoshizawa for the
first time on the 18th.
-1-

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.99)
cording to a dispatch from ......., French Indo-China;
se goods exhibition, which was a great success in Hanoi,
held from the 14th at ........, capital of Annam. On the
Consul-General Ogawa and artist Kenji Fujita were honored
the 2nd class and 3rd class orders of the dragon by the King
Annam, respectively.
News of the Japanese troons operation in Hunan Province.
Mentioned the defeat of a Chinese detachment of about 1,Oo0 strong
being repulsed on the 13th.
According to a dispatch from Bangkok, the military coer-
cion of Britain and America toward Thailand is becoming stronger
and stronger day by day. Besides announcing the appointments of
the new Supreme Commanders of Thailand's Army and Navy, Air Forces,
the Thailand Government carried out a military personnel shake-up
to cope with the situation.
According to a dispatch from the Moscow front received in
Berlin on the 14th, the resistance of the Russian troops, being very
desperate, is very strong. Besides, all of the roads leading to
Moscow have become very muddy due to the rain and snow. Amidst
these conditions, German tanks are making a steady progress.
The German Navy dealt a fatal blow upon the British battle-
ship Malaya, 31,100 tons. In regard to the submarines, which sank
the Ark Royal in the western part of the Mediterranean Sea on the
14th, the nationality of the submarines was not known. However,
the German Government on the 15 th made the following announcement:
The German submarines, commanded by Lt. Comdrs.........and........
sank the Ark Royal on the l4th, besides damaging several battleships,
among which was the Malaya. Due to the seriousness of its damages,
the Malaya reportedly headed for Gibraltar immediately.
The German High Command yeaterday announced the damages
inflicted upon Russian shipping since the outbreak of the war as
follows: Sank 52 warships. Damaged 53 others. Sank 135 transports
and merchant ships, totalling 383,650 tons. Damaged 131 others.
According to a dispatch fron Kabul, Afghanistan, accompany-
ing the increase of shipment of war supplies from America, shipments
of other American made goods have increased. In other words,
America, taking advantage of this opportunity, is planning to
strengthen her economic foundation in this area and the Near East.
As a result, it has led to the clashing of interests between Britain
and America in this area. Besides, when America recently tried to
invite an economic missi on from Egypt, Britain forced Egypt, to re-
fuse the invitation.
Torao Kawasaki, secretary of the Japanese legation in Iraq,
returned for the first time in two years aboard a ship which arrived
at Shimonoseki on the 15th. In regard to the anti-British sentiment
in Iraq, he stated, as follows: "In May of this year, Iraq yielded
to Britain due to the pro-British group's work within Iraq and the
internal disorder caused by Britain. However the anti-British senti-
ment of the people is very strong." On board this same ship returned
-2-

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.99)
tayama and Kawamuro, instructors at Kyushu Imperial
who had been making a survey of the natural resources of
Land. They stated that the soil of Hainan Island is very
promising for the cultivation of rice, sugar cane and rubber.
According to a dispatch from Washington, President Roose-
elt is expected to sign the Neutrality Law Revision Bill, which was
passed by the House of Rep. on the 13th. As a result the arming of
American merchant ships is expected to start next week within the
dock-yards along the Atlantic Coast.
According to a dispatch from New Vork, it appeared as if
the coal miners' strike would be anded through President Roosevelt's
intervention, but no progress was made at the meeting held between
the representatives of the coal miners. and the steel companies.
As a result, it was announced b the coal miners' union that the
strike will be started, as scheduled, from midnight of the 15th.
President Roosevelt, being greatly concerned, held a meeting of de-
partmental leaders at the White House on the 15th. It appears as if
the government has decided to take drastic action against the strike.
According to a dispatch from Nanking, America reportedly
is strengthening her military influence in China under the pretext of
aiding Chungking. Recently, she informed Chungking that she will
immediately send war planes and establish an arsenal somewhere in
the interior. In return for this, Chungkiny reportedly has promised
to give America concession to certain land and China's natural re-
sources. These weapons, instead of being used by Armerica for the proe.
tection of her interests in the Far East it is believed. Hence,
Chiang Kai-shek's action is being regarded as that of a traitor.
Comment on Current Events:
Topic: "The Amendment of the Military Service Law":
Yesterday when the historic 77th emergency session of the Diet was
convoked amidst the aggravated international situation, the army
undertook the revision of the military service law and announced the
revision through the official government gazette as effective imme-
diately. The aim of the revision is to strengthen the National
defense footing. In other words, the law has been revised to make
possible the enlistment of those of class C, who were rejected in
the past, together with the shortening of the students' school term
and the shortening of their period of exemption from military service,
which were enacted s me time ago, this revision has literally made
possible the realization of the motto that all men of our country are
soldiers and can be said to be a historical one. In spite of our
country's noble policy to preserve and promote world peace, the inter-
national situation centering around our country is becoming aggra-
vated day by day. The fact that such a revision making possible
the military service of all our youths has come into being at such
a time should be regarded as a great step toward the strengthening
of Emperor Meiji great policy. Now, I would like to talk about the
way this new revision will function, upon what it will be focused and
its significance. Firstly, the deferred class, which formerly were
not inducted, will be conscripted in the same manner as the recruits.
-3-

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.99)
residing in China, Hongkong and Amoy are being presently
residing in a foreign country and the reservists, who
ng in these areas, have been exempted from the annual
ervice. However, the new revision has done away with these
Tons. In other words, they will be treated in the same manner
nose residing in Manchoukuo and will be conscripted into mili-
ry service just as those resi ding in Japan proper. Again, those,
who have already served and were placed on the reserve list, will be
called at any time. Furthermore, those having volunteered for one
year service and placed on the reserve list and those serving now
will all be treated in the same manner as the graduaten of military
academy (?) Hence, Officers will be ....... up to 5l years of age.
The above mentioned is the gist of the revision. As you all know,
military service is divided into the lst militia and the 2nd militia.
The 2nd militia comprised of those deferred for weak health and being
unfit for military service. Even if they regained their health
later, they were not conscriptod into military service in the past.
However, ever since the strengthening of the national defense footing
became an urgent matter, the reoxamination of those deferred came to
be discussed. At the same time, the desire to serve at the front
among these deferred became stronger. Hence, it can be regarded
that the revision was made to comply with the wishes of the nation.
When this revision is considered in connection with those residing
abroad, a similar thing can be said. In other words, the expansion
and development of our National power has resulted in a greater number
of Japanese going abroad. Above all, the going of Japanese continen-
tal Asie has been tremendous since the creation of a new order in
East Asia Mutual Prosperity Sphere became our country's national
policy. Furthermore, more and more of these came to express their
desire to be treated in the same manner as those residing within
Japan proper and to serve in the army. And with the perfection of
our outside military agencies for the handling of the conscription
of those abroad today, it was finally decided to make the revision.
Therefore, it can be said th t the revision of the military service
regulation was born to meet such internal and external conditions.
In other words, this revision makes possiblc to everyone the porfor-
mance of his military duty and the establishment of an impregnable
national defense footing to cope with the international situation.
Hence, it can be said that the revision of the military service regu-
lation necessary for the perfcction of a strong national defense
footing has been completed through the enthusiasm of the people.
(Rocord indistinct) The spirit to progress together with the people,
expressed by Premier Tojo when the cabinet was formed, has penetrated
into the spirit of the people and has resulted in daily life of the
people being changed to conform with the policy of the government.
Even when the announcement was made that taxation would be increased
tho nation manifested their acceptance with the remark that it is
a duty to be performed in order to win a war and that they are will-
ing to risk everything for the preservation of the nation's fate and
honor. A similar spirit is also being manifested toward the revision
of the military service law. That is, everyone is prepared to sacri-
fice his life for his country, and it is hoped that all will enlist
with this spirit. Our country has gained invaluable experiences
through the four years of the Holy War and with these experiences
as a basis, she has extablished an unshakable footing, both economi-
cally and militarily, In other words, our country has now established
-4-

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.99)
thstand whetever oppression may be inflicted upon her
nations. With the revision of the military service
ooting has been made firmer and more solid and unshakable.
Japanese Music
Tomorrow's Program
Japanese National Anthem.....
-5-

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.94)
Federal Bureau of Juvestigation
Anited States Departsent of Justice
HIC FC
DEC 3 0 1941
MR. BERLE,
Honorable Adolf A. Berle,
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
AD EASTERN APPAIRS
My dear Mr. Berle:
894.76/72
For your information and as of possible interest
I am attaching hereto translated transcripts of radio
broadcasts from Tokyo, Japan for the dates of November 1l,
894.76
12, 15, 17, and 18, 1941.
Sincerely yours,
2
.E.stoovren
Enclosure
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
JAN5
DEC 31 1941
FILED
S
1942
DECLA
Justice Depactment Guidelnie, 1.27.1984
5.161984
By RtG

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.99)
tation JZI Program
Date 11/11/41
Frequency 9,535 Kilocycles
News:
The Japanese troops operating in the southern part of the
Shantung Province have practically captured all of the enemy's
strategic positions and have completed an encirclement of the enemy.
The known successes up to yesterday are 813 killed, 134 captured,
and many arms and munitions taken.
Prior to the convocation of the Diet, the government has
decided to confer with leaders of the parliament and the press. This
afternoon, the first of the leaders to be called was ........On that
occasion, Premier Tojo stated, "Japan is now facing the cross-roads
of life and death. On the occasion of this crisis, I am determined
to accomplish our immovable policy, together with the people. The
reason why the government has called for the emergency session of the
Diet is to overcome this difficulty." In reply to this, Speaker
Koyama of the House of Representatives stated, "We would like to
cooperate with the government and contribute toward the prosperity
of our country."
To strengthen his array of advisors and be prepared for
the coming emergency session of the Dict, Foreign Minister Togo de-
cided to appoint Naotaka Sato, an ex-foreign minister, and Kawagoe,
former Ambassador to China, as his advisors.
With the approval of the Emperor, the cabinet today decided
to carry out the reorganization of the administrative agencies in
order to expedite business.
According to a dispatch from San Francisco, the Pan-Ameri-
can Airways today announced that Special Envoy Kurusu will arrive on
November i3, a day later than schedulod, due to engine trouble of
the China Ciipper at Midway. The repairing of the engine trouble is
being hurried, but if repairs are not completed by the scheduled
time, it is believed that another plane will be sent out to Midway
to take Envoy Kurusu across the Pacific to Mainland America. With
the arrival of Envoy Kurusu in Washington not far away, various
speculations are being made, but Ambassador Nomura, in a press inter-
view with reporters yesterday, stated, "I firmly believe that there
is a possibility to settle peacefully the differences between Japan
and America in regard to the problems of the Pacific. I am determined
to do my best to find the formula, by which Japan and America can
exist peacefully. If I, as ambassador, am able to restore the
friendly relations between Japan and America, it will not only be of
help to America and Japan, but to the world also."
-1-

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.99)
....Tokutomi, a Nestor of the press circle of Japan, at-
tended the meeting to discuss the emergency, sponsored by the Nichi-
Nichi Shimbun, and gave a two-hour talk entitled "Looking at the
Pacific Situation". In regard to the course to be taken by Japan,
Tokutomi emphasized that Japan should cooperate with the Axis powers
and march toward their mutual aim, thus contributing toward world
peace. He stated that the Asiatics should not hesitate to do any-
thing in the Orient and that Chiang Kai-shek is the watch-dog of
President Roosevelt. He urged that Japan should seek for the recon-
sideration of America who is fluttering the dead nine-power pact be-
fore Japan's eyes. He claimcd that things have come to such a pass
because America is sticking her hands in somebody else's pie and
that 1f America would mind her business, the matter could be peace-
fully settled. He concluded that if the nations of the world would
do what is right, the world would be a happy place to live in. Thus
did he criticize America. He also stated that America maintained
friendly relations with Japan during the Meiji Era up till Japan's
victory in the Russo-Japanese war. Then, she became jealous, he
claimed, because she hated to see another country become strong.
He explained that America wants to be the greatest in the world
in everything and wants to check the nations that make any headway.
With the idea that the Pacific is her lake, America, Tokutomi stated,
is trying to check and scare Japan. No matter how America may try
to check Japan, he asserted, Japan will become a great nation for
she is taking a course that should be taken. Thus did he talk in a
fiery tone for about two hours.
According to a dispatch from Nanking, Ambassador to China
Honda today left for Tokyo by plane. He is expected to confer with
Premier Tojo and other leaders in Tokyo in rogard to matters under
his jurisdiation. During his absence, Minister Hidaki (?) will carry
on the business affairs. Prior to his departure, Ambassador Honda
stated, "The internal and external situations are extremcly grave,
but our national policy in regard to the accomplishment of the inci-
dent will nover be changed. Besides, since the various measures
aiming for the strengthoning of the Nanking government are already
under way, there need by no anxiety. I am hoping for a short vaca-
tion in Japan."
The new Chinese ambassador to Japan arrived this morning
in Tokyo and was welcomed by the people of Tokyo. He headed for tho
Chinese Embassy and there the now Chinese ambassador stated, "Need-
less to mention, I will do my best in thc execution of my new dutics.
(Record interrupted by static). I believe that I will be able to
accomplish my task due to the cooperative spirit cxisting between
the Japanese and the Chinese."
In commemoration of the 26th centennial anniversary held
last year, a commemoration ceremony was held at Hibiya Park and at
the inf ormation bureau. Following speeches by prominent leaders,
-2-

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.99)
a motion picturc of last year's ceremony was shown at both places.
According to a roport reaching Bombay from Rangoon, the
NYK evacuation ship, Hiei Maru, changing 1ts schedule, arrived in
Rangoon yesterday to take on the Japanese evacuees from Burma. She
is expected to leave for Japan by tho end of this week. Furthermore,
according to Japanese Consul-General Isono of the Japanese Consulate-
General at Rangoon, there will be about 2,Ooo Japanese still re-
maining at Burma, even after this evacuation.
According to a DNB dispatch, the German troops have started
a furious drive against Moscow and Leningrad. In spitc of the snow
and bad weather, the German troops reportedly are continuing their
drive. Hence, the encirclement against Leningrad is being gradually
tightened. At the same time, the German Air Force reportedly raided
Moscow and according to a dispatch from Moscow about 25o German
planes flew over Moscow on the 6th, followed by similar raids on
the 7th and 8th. Moscow was considerably damaged by these raids,
according to the dispatch.
According to a dispatch from London, Premier Churchill
gave a talk on the l0th at the inaugural luncheon of the new mayor
of London and, conmenting upon the Japanese-American relations; he
stated: "If America should become involved in a war with Japan,
Britain will immediately dcclare war against Japan." If Japanese-
American negotiations end in failure, it will have a great effect
upon America's aid to Britain. Hence, she is hoping for the con-
summation of negotiations. Premier Churchill some time ago repor-
tedly telephoned President Roosevelt to the effect that Britain does
not want to see a Japanese-American war. Consequently, it 1s being
considered that Premier Churchill made the above statement to coerce
Japan into concluding negotiations with America.
In view of the imminent defeat of the Russian troops, the
newspapers of Britain and America have started publishing articles
shirking the responsibility of Russia's defeat. The New York Times
of the 1oth, in her editorial, stated that although it has become
impossible for Soviet Russia to continue her resistance against
Germany without the aid of Britain and America, we, as well as
Britain, cannot aid the Soviet, no matter how much the production
of war materials for Soviet Russia may be increased, in view of the
lack of good ports in Russia and the dangerous and long transporta-
tion routes from the coast inland.
According to a dispatch fron Washington, the Senate held a
furious debate on the 1Oth in regard to the Japanese-American rela-
tions. In this debate, Albert Thomas, a Democrat, stated that in
view of the coming of Special Envoy Kurusu, the readjustment of
Japanese-American relations is not an impossibility and that war on
the Pacific could be averted through the sound declaration and mature
-3-

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.99)
deliberation of the statesmen of both Japan and America. He claimed
that the settlement of the situation in East Asia should be left in
the hands of Japan. On the other hand, Senator Capper, a Republican,
stated, "If there is no hope for the readustment of Japanese-Ameri-
can relations, Japan would not have sent an envoy to America."
According to a dispatch from Washington, about 3,500 AFL
workers walked out in a general strike today, thus completely stop-
ping work on 1l military projects. As a result, the commandant of
the llth Naval District issued a final warning to the striking
union. Meanwhile, the Navy Department ordered the Commandant of
the llth Naval District to take the necessary steps to continue the
work on the naval defense projects and call out the Marines in case
the situation becomes worse.
According to a report reaching Canton from Kumming,
Chiang Kai-shek, on the pretext (?) of defending Southwestern China
and the Burma route, reportedly is dispatching large detachments of
Chinese troops to Yunnan. As a result, friction betwcen Chiang's
own and the Yunnan troops is becoming stronger.
According to a report reaching Nanking, Chiang Kai-shek
on the l4th of last month sent Advisor Lattimore to Kumming to con-
fer with Ryu-un (?) in regard to Chiang's intentions in Southwestern
China. Besides, Kao-kin, too, reportedly urged Ryu-un to cooperate
with Chungking on his last trip to Kumming. However, this has only
increased the ill-feeling of the leaders of Yunnan.
According to a dispatch from Washington, Hu Shih, Chinese
Ambassador to America, yesterday conferred with President Roosevelt
and presented Chiang's message (?). In regard to thc text of the
message, Hu Shih refrained from making any comment, excepting that
it was information of great necessity to the President.
Comment on current events:
Topic "This week's review of the international situation":
In spite of our country's desperato effort to promote and preserve
the peace of the Orient as well as that of the world, the problems
in the Pacific are becoming very critical due to the unreasonable
attitude of America. On the other hand, German troops are making
steady progress in Europe, in spite of Britain and America's aid
to Soviet Russia. Thus the movements of the world are pivoting
around these problems. First, let us consider this movement in the
light of Far Eastern problems. The Japanese government has dis-
patched Special Envoy Kurusu to America to aid Ambassador Nomura in
Japanese-American negotiations. On the 15th of this month, Special
Envey Kurusu left Tokyo and is presently hurrying towards Washington
What I would like to say in regard to this is that the dispatching
of Special Envoy Kurusu to America is the outward manifestation of
our country's noble desire to settlo peacefully, if possible, the
-4-

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.99)
Pacific problems which have become very critical. Not only does
this fact not mean that Japan has bowed to America, but it also
does not mean that Japan is afraid of America's strength. Japan,
in other words, is undertaking the last (?) diplomatic negotiation
to sette peacefully, if possible, the problems upon which the fate
of the Pacific depends, through America's reconsideration at the
last five minutes. As for the Japanese people, there is none with
an optimistic view in regard to Special Envoy Kurusu's mission to
America. This is because when the n: ws that Special Envoy Kurusu
would be sent to America was received in Washington, Secretary of
State Hull stated that the dispatching of Special Envoy Kurusu to
America is Japan's independent action and America knows nothing of
it. This remark fully manifests the feeling harbored by Amorica to-
wards Japan. That is, this remark is a manifestation of America's
selfish attitude that Jupan can do as she pleases and America will
do likewise. In other words, America has no thought of the peace of
East Asia nor of the world, but only has the idea of preserving the
status quo and the ambition to dominate the world. Consequently.
should an unfortunate incident occur in the Far East, it is nothing
other than the responsibility of America. A minute ago, I mentioned
that America's only mbition is to dominate the world. Now let us
consider this remark in connection with the situation in East Asia.
The activities cf the ABCD encirclement, headed by America, have be-
come very active, of late. That is, America has taken over the
management of the Burma route for the purpose of checking Japan and
strengthening Chungking and has appointed Clareton (phonetic) as
Commander of the Air Force in the Philippines to strengthen the de-
fense of the Philippines. Again, a foreign dispatch of the 4th re-
ported that the American Government has ordered the evacuation of
American women and children from Guam and Wake Islands and President
Roosevelt on the 7th made public his intention to evacuate American
Marines from Poking and Shanghai. Furthermore, on the 4th, Secre-
tary of War Stimson nade a suggestion to the House Military Affairs
Committeo to cnact a law entrusting with the President the power to
proclaim martial law in Hawaii. In addition to this, America, in-
stigating the Panama Government, has made the said government take
action to exclude Japanese from Panama. Then, toc, on the 2nd, she
issued an order prohibiting the loading of mail on Japanese ships to
Japan. No matter what explanations America may make, these facts
are nothing other than the manifest tion of her hostile attitude to-
ward Japan. Such being the case, our country too is making every
preparation to cope with the situation and is watching America's
movements. When these facts are taken into consideration, it can be
seen that the situation in East Asia is being ....... by the nations
of the ABCD encirclement. This is the reason why Pacific problems
have become critical.
However, amidst this critical situation, Special Envoy
Yoshizawa and his party have landed in French Indo-China. This was
on the 4th of this month. At a time when Chungking is doing her
-5

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.99)
reply to the actions of Stalin and President Roosevelt, Hitler made
a speech on the 8th and refuted the claimed successes of the Russian
Army, besides manifesting Germany's firm determination by stating
that Germany will welcome the landing of British and American
troops on Continental Europe.
Before closing, I would like to mention some more facts in re-
gard to America. That is, the Senate on the 7th adopted the neu-
trality law revision bill. As a result of this, American merchant
ships will be armed and will be allowed to sail through the war
zones. This fact literally indicates that America is now actually
taking part in the war, but the fact that such a thing is actually
being done by America, who is advocating peace by mouth, is very
inconsistent. In reply to this, Chancellor Hitler stated that
German submarines will carry out actions of self-defense and if
they should be fired upon by American ships, they will reply with
torpedoes, thus making clear Germany's attitude. Besides this,
America has made public her intention to establish military bases
in Iceland. This policy of America, lacking in righteousness, is
bringing unhappiness to tho people on the Atlantic and the Pacific.
In addition to this, Britain's movements in East Asia should also
be watched. Hence, Japan is watching the movements of hostile
nations with a firm determination and preparation.
Japanese music.
Japanese national anthem.
###
-7-

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.99)
21 Program, 11/12/41
With the approval of Premier Tojo, Foreign Minister
Togo and Finance Minister Kaya's messages to the Diet and other
matters that will be presented before the Diet and the seeking
of the emperor's approval on these matters tomorrow, the cabinet
will have completed its preparation for the convocation of the
special session of the Diet. However, in view of the aggravated
international situation, it has been reported that special atten-
tion has been given to the drafting of Foreign Minister Togo's
speech in order to impress upon the nations that the ultimate aim
of our policy is to preserve and promote world peace, besides the
protection of our rights and interests.
Governor-General Minami of Koreamade the following
important statement at yesterday's meeting of departmental heads:
"Since last July, Soviet mines jeopardized the safety of shipping
several times and on each of the occasions the attention of the
Soviet government was called. Hovever, she has shown no sincerity
and has finally brought about the unfortunate Kibi Maru incident.
At this time, I am hoping that the government will undertake a
stearn negotiation with the Soviet government". Thus did he urge
the Japanese government to assume a strong attitude.
Special Envoy Yoshizawa, who arrived in Hanoi on the
8th, is expected to undertake the first step toward the
strengthening of the friendly relations between Jaoan and French
Indo-China with the return of Governor-General De Coux to Saigon.
In regard to the attitude of French Indo-China toward Special
Envoy Yoshizawa, Governor-General De Coux on the lOth stated that
he hoped to request the Japanese government through Speciel Envoy
Yoshizawa to respect the sovereign rights of French Indo-China
and to cooperate for the mutual benefit of French Indo-China and
Japan.
Although the Chungking government, regarding the defense
of the point of crossing of the Yellow River in Southwestern
Shansi as being a strategic point of future operations, attempted
to put up a strong resistance at that locality by issuing an
order that anyone, who retreats, will be shot to deatn, our
troops, unleashing a furious offensive fron the 26th of last month,
successfully routed the Chinese troops on the lOth. As to their
achievements, our troops killed 1,56l enemy troops, besides
capturing 2,238 men and meny arms and ammunition.
According to a dispatch from Nanking, Wang Chingwei,
leader of the Nanking government, introduced a new nationalistic
movement bill on the last day of the meeting of the four depart-
mental heads (?) of the Kuomingtang Party. The aim of the bill
reportodly is to create a newChina through the unification of the
-1-

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.99)
1 Program, 11/12.41, con't.
government and the people along the lines of the Sino-Japanese
basic agreement. At this meeting, Wang Ching-wei made the
following speech: "Ever since the Sino-Japanese basic agreement
was concluded on November 30 of last year and the joint Japan-
Manchoukuo-China declaration was simultaneously announced, the
Nanking government, which has been cooperating in the mission
to resurrect East Asia, has made a remarkable progress in the
political, military, economic and cultural & spects. In contrast
to this, the Chungking government, stubbornly refusing to realize
the reality, has been carrying on a traitorous act by continuing
its meaningless resistance and relying upon the Anglo-American
imperialism. We, unifying our spiritual and material strength,
should carry out the new nationslistic movement and cooperate in
the noble project of resurrecting Asin".
Our troops' campaign agninst the 20,000 troops, under
the command of General.........., in Southern Shantung Province
is nowin its second stage. As to their achievements up to the
12th, they have killed 925 enemy troops, besiaes capturing 220
men, 1,117 rifles, 9,597 rounds of ammunition and many other
weapons.
Due to the complete blockade of her supplies'routes by
our troops, Chungking is now facing a predicament of being unable
to carry on the war, besides a serious shortage of food-stuffs.
The condition has become so bad that an anti-Chiang Kei-shek
movement reportedly is about to break out in the nuighboring
regions of Chungting. Even the Burma route, due to America's
passive aid, is not being used to its fullest capacity. As a
result, Chungking, eccording to the New York Herald-Tribune of
the l2th, reportedly has urged America to continue her aid for
the development of the Burma route in spite of Japan's reaction,
and has threatened that she may side with the anti-British and
American group in the event America fails to send aid in the
immediate future.
In conncction with the inaugural cerenony of the
mayor of London, Premier Churchill made a threatening remark
to the effect thet if war should break out between Japan and
America, Britein will immediately declare war against Japan.
In regard to this, our newspapers of the l2th have published the
following comments of refutation: Tokyo Nichi-Nichi - It is 
greve mistake to consider that Jepan could be throatened by
Churchill's remark. Jepm, in the first place, is not thinking,
nor even expecting that Britain will remein neutral. In regard
to the strongth of the British navy, which they boast so much
of, they should have a better nowledge of it than anybody else.
The strength of the British navy, boasted of Premier Churchill,
cannot even break the counter-blockade of the German sea and
air forces, nor even land a troop on the continent of Europe.
-2-

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.98)
Program, 11/12/41, con't.
Tokyo Asahi-- It is not 4merica, but Britain, who possesses
numerous possession and rights in the Indian Occan as well as
the Western Pacific. Frankly speaking, if Britain has not the
power to protect these possessions rnd rights with hor own
strength, she is not qualified to exercise her soveruign power over
these possessions and rights." Yomiuri Shimbun--It is obviously
Britain's scheme to check thc Japanese-American negotistion by
chiming in wit: America's democratic movoment nd threatening
our country.
According to r dispatch received by our foroign
office from the Japanese consulate-general of Sydney, the Australien
government has ordered all Australien vessels to be armed ss of
the 6th end that no Australian vessel thet is not armed will be
allowed to said from any port of Australia or her possessions.
According to a dispatch from Santiago, President......
of Chile has resigned his post on the grounds of ill-health. At
the same time, Secretary of State Goodman (phon.tic) has also
resigned. With the post of presidency left vucant, Mendes, leader
of the conservative party, has been appointed to succeed Secretary
of State Goodman. In view of the fuct that the secretary of
state concurrently holds the post of vice-presidency, it can be
assumed that the post of presidency has railen into the hends
of Mendes. It is believed that this is n inaication that
America's policy to vin ovur the South Americrn notions will be-
come more and more strong in tho immediate future.
According to  dispatch reaching Rome from Istanbul,
the new eppointed Premier........of Irag reportodly was assasinated
at Bugdad on the morning of the loth. He reportcdly was pro-British
and anti-Axis.
According to a communique iesued by the Gurman High
Command on the 1lth, the German troops op rating in the south,
aided by the Rumanian troope, have already reached ths outer de-
fense of Sevastopol anu are pressing the kussien troops toward
Sevastopol and Sarych Mountains. Moreover, the ollied troops
of Germeny and Finlend, operating in the north, wiped out a
strong Russien division in the Karebiya (phonetic) region ena cap-
tured 700 pill boxes and many arms and ammunition, besides 1,000
men.
According to ? report from Sukako (phonetic), only
the few higher ups of the Soviet representatives in Outer Mongolie
are aware of the defeets of the Soviet troops, while the populace
and the Soviet troops of Outer Mongolis are of the belief that
tha Soviet troops are gaining successive victories. This is
believed to be due to Sovict government's policy to shut out all
news from Europe.
-3-

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.98)
21 Program, 11/12/41, Con't.
Something about the pitiful condition in Moscow.
Record suadenly became bad.
It is needless to mention th't the situation centering
on the Pacific between Japan and America hss recently become very
acute, and I believe that you all are aware of the f ct that
Kurusu's mission to America is the manifestation of our final
effort to preserve peace. Confronting this situation, wnich is
on the verge of breaking at the slightest touch, our country is
making every effort to alloviate this situation and thus prevent
the disturbance of the waves of the Pacific. Hovever, since
Americe is showing no sincerity and isonly carrying out challen-
ging acts, our country's sontiment is now advocating action
instead of preaching. In connection with this Sobo Tokutomi, a
Nestor of our press circle, moved by the ccute situation on the
Pacific, gave an inspiring talk, entitled "Looking over the
Pacific situation", before a crowd of ssveral thousand at Hibiy-
Park on the afternoon of the loth. As today's corment on current
events, I would like to comment on Sobo Pokutomi's talt. A
messenger of peace - that is, a bird of peace - has buen sent
toward America. At presont, that lnst bird of peace is flying
and it is a very big one. He is none other then Special Envoy
Kurusu. Nevertheless, Panana, America's puppet, has teken awry
the means of livel ihood of 330 countrymen of ours nd has shut
them out. This ie America's velcome to Special Envoy Kurusu. Thus
did Mr. Tokutomi criticize Am rica's insincerity et the beginning
of his talk. He continued his talk by stating that the course
that should be followed is to cooperate with the Axis powers in
the accomplishment of the mutuel in and the creation of a new
world order, that since peace absolutely cannot be potained from
peace, the course to bo taken by us would become clear if ve were
to pursue the course indicated by the soldiers (?) and that the
Asiatics should not be afraid of orfending another country in
disposing of a matter portaining to Asin. Thus did he emphasize
the solid nature of our national policy and continu d, "Th- exact
sentiment of Japan is as follows: If we were to couragsously
shout from our doors that what you are advocating is wrong to
make them reconsider, there vould be a change to make Americe
reflect. Chiang Kai-shet is nov nothing more than President
Roosevslt's clerk nnd Wishington's faithful weten-dog. Hence,
nothing fundamentally can be suttled, if an attempt is made to
settle the problem with this watch-dog. So long as the scourge
that is hidden behind is not wiped away, it, somewhat like chasing
the flies away from the rice, would reappeer again. However,
America, who is behind of it, is obstinately clinging to the nine
power tre ty and is ettemptins to restore the condition that
existed prior to the Manchurien incident. Jepan, todry, is in
-4-

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.98)
Program, 11/12/41, Con't.
the midst f carrying out her noble project end is now at the
stage which will determine whether she will succeed or fail. At
such a time, it is preposterous to think of the dead nine-power
pact, for it supposedly hrs been buried in the grave a long time
ago.
"The Pacific is en ocern of 177,300,000 squsre kilometers
and occupies about 36 per cent of the earth's surfecc. Sinco
such a large oceen lies between Japen end America, peace can be
maintained if both mind their own business. Then lut us seo who
is disturbing the waves of the Pacific. The question has occurred
because America, instead of minding her own business, is trying
to stict her nose into anoth:r's affair without nny hositetion.
If America would withdraw, th re would be no problom. " Thus did
he criticize mcrica's imporiclistic policy. Then, shifting his
talk to the historical relctions, he talked about the opening of
Japan to foreign intercouree and stated, "It is  mistake to
regard Conmodore Perry as tho bunefactor of Japan. This is because
he thre: coned Japan into opening up the country with guns and
warships. As to tho result obtained from oponing up the country,
it is the work of Japan, herself, and has nothing to do vith
America. It was in 1898 that America annexed Harai i anu took
Philippines by defeating Spsin nd stuck her nos. put in the Orient.
That is, she squeezed horself into the China problem with the
phrases 'open door' and 'equrl opportunity' nt thst time. However,
she refrained from clashing directly with Japen. During the
Russo-Japanese War, sho showed considerable amity toword Japan.
"However, as Japan geined saccessive victories, Americe's
tone changed and America, unbecoming of a man, began to become
joal ous to the offect that 'Japan is winning too much; sho sh ould
lose at time s and she is inpudent'. America, g enerally epeaking,
dislikes another nation to become great very much. She is not
satisfied if she is not the grestest. Takin: cavantage of this,
Chiang Kai-shek and his followors eppoalcd to America for help
and America, regerding this as the tine, began to oppose Japan on
the ground of protecting humenity. We have no idea of having done
anything to cause America's dislike. It is s fact that Japan has
become a grest nation, but there is n) rsason why Americs should
demand that Japan be a small country. le should follow the course
to be taken to the end. That should be our voluntary diplomacy."
Thus did he poke at America's actions and explain our
country's firm attitude. Then, Mr. Tokutomi mentioned the out-
rageous interventions of America and stated, "America's exclusion
of.........brought about the immigration problem, which finally
resulted in the conclusion of a gentleman's agreement. Nevertheless
when this gentleman's agreement was concluded, America, regarding
Japan as a fresh country and a ttempting to scare her, sent a large
fleet to Japan, thus manifesting her usual policy of taking advan-
tage of our quietness and.............
........Then, when the great
-5-

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.98)
Program, 11/12/41,Con't.
earthquake of Toliyo occurred, America extended her sympathy,
for which we expressed pur appreciation. However, not long after-
wards, America passed the Jepanese inunirant exclusion act. As
a result, we, who had been appreciating America's kindness, had
gained nothing for expressing our thanks. Ever since, America
has attempted to obstruct Japen in everything. In July of 1939,
she abrogated the treaty of commerce and navigution ani in July
of this year, she enacted the freeze act and succecded in making
the Dutch East Indies follow her step. In this manner, America
is attempting to cow (?) Japan. Attempting to embrace the whole
of the Pacific, America has succeeded in joining with Soviet Russia
on the north and with Australia on the south and also with the
Dutch East Indies and China. Hence, it is clear that America's in-
tention is to shackle Japan's hands and feet in spite of the great-
ness of the Pacific. Not only in the Pacific, but also in the Japan
Sea is America trying to stretch her hands by utilizing Soviet
Russia. America is the home of the disrupters of peace. Historically
speaking, America has engaged in 1l wars during the past l00 years.
Where is there a peaceful nation that hes fought 20 years and
eight months out of l00 years? Who has essumed charge of Chiang
Kai-shek's war? Who is to supply Stalin with arms? Who is supnly-
ing Britsin with arms? When these questions are considered, it
can be seen that America is the nation who is in charge of the
world's war. She is profiting by selling and looning arms. In
addition, she is charging interest and is cuusing incidents.
Hence, no other country but Amorica is the originator of world
confusion. " Thus did Mr. Toxutomi unmask America and commented
upon America's numorous outrageous acts.
Lastly, citing the spirit manifested by the people
of Japan at the time or the Nongolian Invasion, he stated, "In
the fourth year of Koen (1281), 1,000, o00 M ngolian troops in-
vaded the Sea of Hakcta, but were succesefully repulsed by the
quick action of Tokimune Hojo. Inasmuch as there was ons
Tokimune Hojo in the fourth year of Koan, there ou ht to be not
one or two, but many Tokimunes in this lsth year of Showa. Each
and every one within this country is a Toxinune Hojo". Thus did
he express the strong d termination of the nation and deeply
impress the audience.
Domestic news: Yemaguchi Prefecture: News of the
near completion of the Gokoku Jinja (Shrine of the Gu rdian Gods
of Our Country). News of a plan to erect a hotel for the families
of soldiers who had died at the front. Estimated cost - 150,O00 yen.
Hiroshima Prefecture: News of n ten year plan to
reforest the bare mountains in the said prefecture. News of the
holding of the inaugural meeting of the National Defense Health
Society of Japm on the 29th.
-6-

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.98)
21 Program, 11/12/41 Con't.
Shiga Prefecture: News of the discovery of excellent
grade clay for the making of pottery. News of the unveiling of
the statue of Mitsunari Ishida, a great man of 340 years ago.
Kumamoto Prefecture: News honoring of 60 femilies
with ten or more children by the Ministry of Welfare.
Nagasaki Prefecture: News of the establis ment of
Kowa Shogyo Takumu Gekko (Jast Asia Commercinl and Colonial
Affairs School) by © former principal of a middle school.
Japanese national anthom.
###
-7

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZI Program
Date 11/15/41
Frequency 9535 Kilocycles
News:
To be present for the opening ceremony of the 77th emergency
session of the Diet, the Emperor and the Empress returned to Tokyo from
Hayama.
The 77th emergency session of the Diet was convoked today with
every member of the House of Comaons and the House of Peers present.
That is, the House of Peers was in session from 9:00 a.m. end the House
of Commons from 10:00 a.m. The opening ceremony will be held tomorrow
in the presence of the Emperor, and the messages of Promier Tojo, Foreign
Minister Togo, and Finance Minister Kaya are expected to be heard on the
17th. After the messages of the three ministers, the various bills will
be discussed.
Some time ago the Army and Navy established a policy of reward-
ing anyone who makes some sort of discovery or invention of military
value. The first receivers of these rewards were honored at the War
Ministry on the 14th. In all, 14 were honored and their inventions or
discoveries are already being used.
The propaganda motion pictures to be shown in foreign countries,
which the Society for the Promotion of International Culture has been
filming, have at last been finished. The pictures have been made in the
German, Chinese, French, and Mandarin languages.
The TAIYO MARU, which 1eft Honolulu on the 5th with 447
Japanese evacuees, is expected to arrive at 10:00 a.m. on the 17th at
Yokohama.
Our troops, operating in the southern part of Shantung,
unleashed a furious drive against the 3000-strong enemy troops operat-
ing in that area on the 13th. The drive resulted in the killing of
125 enemy troops and capturing of 92 others. Tho drive is still being
continued.
The headquarters of the Japanese Expeditionary force announced
the achievements of this week as follows: The annihilation of the
Chinese 34th Division along the banks of the Yellow River in Southern
Shansi. The annihilation of the Chinese 1l5th Division and the Chinese
operation losses in Southern Shantung.
According to & dispatch from San Francisco, Special Envoy
-1-

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZI Program, 11/15/41
Kurusu arrived at the Treasure Island Airport on the morning of the 14th
from Hawaii and was greeted by Consul-General
and many other
Japanese. In reply to the questions of nowspaper reportors, Kurusu
stated, "Do you think that I would come if I thought thero was no hope?"
Then at 10:45 a.m. ho made a broadcast over the NBC network, following
which he had lunch at the Japaneso Consulate. At 2:00 p.m. he boarded
a plano for Washington by way of Los Angeles.
According to a dispatch from Washington, the Department of
State today announced that Secrotary of Stato Hull is scheduled to
meet Ambassador Nomura and Special Envoy Kurusu at 10:30 a.m. on the
17th. Kurusu is scheduled to arrive in Washington on the 15th and
Director Valentine of tho Far Eastern Affairs Bureau is cxpected to
meet him at the airport.
According to another dispatch from Washington, President
Roosevelt in an interview with newspaper reporters on the 14th
answered the quostions of the ruporters in regard to the mission of
Kurusu and the Far Eastern problems. In regard to the question,
"When will you confer with Envoy Kurusu?", the President replied that
nothing definite has been planned yet but thut he will postpone his
proposed trip until after tho arrival of Envoy Kurusu. In regard to
the question that some are thinking that war betwoen Jupan and Amorica
might break out tomorrow, he replied thut he sincercly hopes that such
will not be the case. President Roosevelt also stuted that the Marines
stationed in China will soon be withdrawn. This news reportedly hus
stunned the British authorities in Shanghai and the Chungking rogime.
Regarding the adoption of the Neutrality Law Revision Act as
increasing the danger of clashes botweon Gormany and America on tho
Atlantic, the German authoritios, in accordance with Hitler's speech
of the 8th, stated that drastic action will be taken against American
ships entoring the war zones and that America must be preparod for such
action in view of her revision of tho Noutrality Law.
According to a dispatch from Noew York, (record suddenly became
indistinct -- something about some sort of striko callod for tho 15th
and about the proposed strike of the Railroad Workers' Union for
Docember 7).
According to a dispatch from London, the British Admiralty on
the l4th announced the sinking of the Ark Royal in the waters cast of
Gibraltar. This is the third British aircraft carrior to bo sunk since
the outbreak of the war, leaving only six uircraft carriers in
-2-

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZI Program, 11/15/41
operation.
According to a communiquo issued by tho German High Command
on the l4th, tho Gorman troops operating in Crimea are prosently bom-
barding Kerch. (Record indistinct -- samothing about the German air
force sinking two Russian transports.) The German air force also is
bombarding Sevastopol.
(Something, about the number of British planos (?) dostroyed
by Germany since the first of this year amounting to about four times
that of Germany.)
Tho British Government today announced that the plane carry-
ing American Ambassador to Russia Stionhardt and Russian Ambassador to
America Litvinov landed safely at Baku on the 13th, but the Russian
govornment stated that they had received no such report. Furthormore,
according to a despatch in London from Cairo, this plano reportedly had
landed at
Iran.
Comment on Current Events:
Topic: "ABCD Encircloment". It is needless to mention that
the attention of the world is being focused on the Pacific problems.
Today, contering my talk upon the Pacific probloms, I would like to
comment upon the ABCD encirclement. Vhat is very unpleasant to us
currently is Amorica's action and attitude. That is, the leaders of
America are always exciting the sentimont of the people toward war.
The spoeches made by President Roosevelt and Secretary of Nuvy Knox on
the anniversary of the Armistice of the provious war on Novembor 11
are cortainly representativo instigative speoches. Secretary of Navy
Knox in particular is busily trying to coax Japan into fighting America,
and it is regrettablo for America that she has no idoa that such a war
would bring unhappiness to the whole world and that she is under-
estimating Japan's strength. Evon if America is a country of froedom
of speech, his speech is too ............
....... Socretary of Navy
Knox stated that a Japanese-Amorican war is inovitable and .....
........ (record indistinct). Ho stated that Americc has been
patient with Japan fora long time, but the time of deciding has come.
(record indistinct) I cannot help but pity the American poople, who
are being gradually pushed into a war. Now, let us considor Britain.
Premior Churchill stated that, should America become involved in a war
with Japan, Britain will immodiately declaro war against Japan. He
may think that he has threatened Japan, but none in Japan has been
frightened nor .......
..... It can be said that
-3-

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZI Program, 11/15/41
Premier Churchill is the one who is instigating Chungking and the
Dutch East Indies for the strengthening of the anti-Japanese encircle-
ment. What I would like to state at this time is that Japan is not
wilfully maintaining her friction with America and Britain. Japan of
today has no other desire than to create an East Asia Lutual Sphere
and establish peace in East Asia, nor has she the time to do other
things. (record indistinct) Furthermore, when Amorica one-sidedly
abrogated the treaty of commerce and navigation, did our country
threaten her? The only thing that Japan is striving for is the
creation of an East Asia lutual Prosperity Sphere. Therefore, should
any nation try to check and obstruct our country from carrying out her
established policy, our country will not hesitate to fight against that
nation. Now, I would like to talk about the anti-Japanese encirclement
and its relations with our country. Firstly, it has become a thing of
the past to consider whether our natiml defense is restricted to the
protection of our own domain. (Record indistinct -- mentioned Japan's
defense zone extending into the waters to the south, just as Britain's
defense zone extends to the Rhine and America's dofense zone cxtends
into Africa and Europo in the East and into New Zealand, Australia and
the India Sea.) When America's national defense and Japan's national
defense are compared, it can be seen that America's is ruther an
aggression, while Japan's is based upon the noble principle of promoting
the prosperity and welfare of the nations of Asia. If America insists
upon pressing her claim, which is tantamount to world domination, the
nation that Japan has to contend (?) with is none other than America.
Furthermore, while carrying on a Japanese-American negotiation on one
hand, Roosevelt's regime is ............
........... and is trying
to win the support of the nations of the world. Her belief is that
Japan would join the anti-Axis powers if German is .........
(record indistinct -- something about the strengthening of the anti-
Japanese encirclement, America's schome to obtain bases in China and
Britain desperately trying to aid America toward the achiovoment of
her eim. Then, he mentioned the Military strength of the ABCD nations
in the Far East and somewhat bolittled their combined power.) As you
are all aware of it, it is needless for mo to muntion that Japan has
the strength to wipe away their combined strongth. (Noto: This portion
of the record terrible--impossible to translate.)
Tentative Program for tho Coming Weck
Japaneso Music
Japanese National Anthem
-4

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.99)
station JZI Program
Date 11/17/41
Frequency 9535 Kilocycles
News:
Earnest discussion took place for the first time at today's
session of the 77th emergency session of the Diet. At 10:00 a.m.
Premier Tojo made a speech before the House of Peers expressing the
attitude of the government. His talk was followed by that of Foreign
Minister Togo. In his talk Foreign Minister Togo described our
country's basic foreign policy as to establish ............ in East
Asia and thus contribute toward the prosperity of humanity. He also
made clear Japan's relations with the Axis powers, with Manchoukuo and
with China. Commenting upon the northern and southern problems, he
stated that Japan had taken a peaceful stand in either case. In
closing, he touched upon the Japanese-American relations and stated
that it is needless to mention that our country must assume a firm
attitude to wipe away any obstacle endangering the existence of our
country. The following is the gist of Premier Tojo's speech: It is
needless to mention that our country's fixed policy is the establish-
ment of peace, based on righteousness, in East Asia and thus contribute
toward the promotion of the prosperity of humanity. With this point of
view our country concluded an al liance with Gormany and Italy, and
cooperating with China and Manchoukuo, she is striving for the stabiliza-
tion of East Asia. Furthermore, with the development of the China Inci-
dent, our intorest has been turned toward the north as well as the south.
With the hope of ostablishing peace in East Asia, our country settled
the dispute between Thailand and French Indo-China and also established
a close relationship with French Indo-China. In regard to this, it is
regrettable that the third powers are propagandizing the fact as though
our country has territorial ambition. Not only that, they are also
strengthening the anti-Japanese encirclement and this has a serious
effect upon our existence. In rogard to this, our country, with the
hope of restoring world peace, has been carrying on a talk with Amorica.
Unfortunatoly, wo havo not yot been uble to reach an agreement. If
America were to correctly regard the realities of Ecst Asia, I cer-
tainly bolievo that the conclusion of the Japuneso-Americen nogotia-
tion is not impossible. As a result, we have been doing our utmost.
Nevorthcless, since there is a limit to our conciliatory attitude, we,
of course, will oppose any country with a firm attitude if our existence
and interest is threatened.
On the other hand, Finance Minister Kaya gave a talk before
the House of Commons and explained tho war-time cconomy of our country.
After oxplaining the new budget, he stated as follows: "In spite of the
fact that four and one-half years have passed since the outbreak of the
China Incident, our country's economy is still very sound and our
-1-

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.98)
cation JZI Program, 11/17/41
economic power has shown a romarkeble degree of progress in various
respects. (He then gavo figures of imports and oxports for the past
year to vorify his statement. Hc also commented upon the Anglo-
Amorican freeze act and stated that Japan will form an East Asia
economic bloc and that Japan must build up a strong armanne t und an
economic power sufficiont to maintain this armanont.)
Results of the October operations of the Japanese troops
operating in Southern Shantung, Northern Kiangsu, and Northern Anhwei:
Fought aguinst 82,026 cnemy troops 448 times; killed 4,110, captured
1,120, bosidos 1,979 rifles and many arms and anmunitions.
Taiyo Maru, which was sent to America to return with the
evacuees from America, arrived this morning in Yokohama.
The following is an electrical transcription of the speech
of Premier Tojo made before the House of Peers: (Pleasc refer to
translation of tho November 17 issuc of the "Nippu Jiji" (Honolulu),
which carried Premier Tojo's speech word for word.)
Japaneso Music
Japanese National Anthom
-2-

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZI Program
Date 11/18/41
Frequency 9535 Kilocycles
News: (Record indistinct)
News of yesterday's session of the Diet. Claimed
that Premier Tojo, Foreign Minister Tago m d Finance Minister
Kaya made known to the world Japan's firm determination and
attitude through their speeches.
News of the passing of the most important bill -
namely, the military appropriation bill - by both houses
today, m d a review of Prenier Tojo's speech.
Responding to the speech made by Premier Tojo
before the House of Peers, Mr. Kasebe (?), an executive of
the Manchoukuoan Government, who is presently making an in-
spection of Southern Manchoukuo, issued the followi ng state-
ment yesterday: "The people of Manchoukuo, uniting solidly
as one, is marching toward the perfcction of the national
defense footing. Even the Kwantung force is .........as a
result, Japan has nothing to worry about in the north".
According to a dispatch from Berlin, the speeches
of Premier Tojo and Foreign Minister Togo have caused a
wide spread sensation throughout urope. Well informed
sources are placing great expectations upon the Tojo cabinet.
The consensus of their opinion is that it is worthy of note
that it has been made clear that the China incident is a
fight against Britain and America and it is to be congratu-
lated that Japan has manifested the attitude to crush the
Chungking regime and give whole hearted support to the Nanking
Government. Furthermore, the fact that Japan has proclaimed
that she has come to cast her attention to the north as well
as the south in connection with the incident is an indication
that Japan's policy for the establishment of the East Asia
Mutual Prosperity Spherc has taken a concrete turn and that
the aim of her diplonacy has been expanded.
According to a dispatch from Washington, the
Department of State refrained from commenting upon Premier
Tojo's and Foreign Ministor Togo's speeches. However, othor
government departments are regarding the speeches of both
Ministers as Japan's unconciliatory attitude. They believe
that Kurusu's mission as a result, will be difficult to
accomplish m d that no understanding between the United
States and Jap an can be reached by words, other than by
actual action.
-1-

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.98)
Station JZI Program
Date 11/18/41
According to a. dispatch from Nanking, the Nanking
Government cxpressed her whole hearted appreciation toward
the manifestation of Japan's detormination to assist in the
strengthening of the Naking Governnent as indicated by
Premier Tojo m d Foreign Minister Togo in their speeches,
and expressed her determination to maintain a close relation
with Japan and cooperate in the stablization of East Asia.
On the other hand, tho speeches of both Ministurs caused
ε great fear within the Chungking regime.
According to a dispatch from Washington, Envoy
Kurusu, together with Ambassador Nomura, called upon Secre-
tary of State Hull on the 17th md after confering with
Secretary of Statc Hull or about 20 minutes, they called
upon President Roosevelt and conferred with him for about
an hour and ton minutes. To make this conference possiblo,
Pres. Roosevelt reportedly postponed his schedulcd mecting
with the respresentatives of the Mine Workers Union and
tho stecl companies. In regard to the Jcpanese-American
negotiation, the opinion of our politiccl circle is that so
long as the American Government and the American press con-
tinues to maintain thcir sclfish attitude, the situation wd 1l
develop into the worst stage.
The Hikawa Maru, wHch was sent to Americe to pick
up Japanese evacuees, arrived this morning in Yokohama from
Vancouver with 364 evacuees on board. They were greeted at
the pior by represuntatives of the govornment and the
Oversens Japm ese Contral Socicty.
The convention for the encouragcnent of the
Japanese who hed returned from abroad was held this afternoon
at Hibiya Park. After the oponing adaress of Vice-Admiral
Hamada, chairman of the board of directors of the Overseas
Japanese Central Society, Premier Tojo Eve c specch of
encouragement toward the overseas Japanese. This was followed
by speeches by Foreign Hinister Togo, President Toshio
Shiratori of the Overse s Japcnese Society n d Vice-President
Ando of the National Support Socicty, artor vhich representa-
tives from Panama, Dutch East Indies, Singupore, North
America, Brazil and Peru expressed thoir eppreciation, and
the condition of the Japanese residents abroad.
According to a communique issued by the German
High Command, the German troops are meeting with groat
successcs in the Crimecn operation m d have captured bout
10,o00 Russian troops. On the other hand the Gorman Troops,
-2-

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.98)
tion JZI Program
atc 11/18/41
according to the communique issuedby the Russian High
Command, have penetrated the ..........defense of Moscow.
According to a dispatch from Berlin, Chancellor
Hitler has ......... portions of Lithuania, Prussia and
Russia and have organized & new autonomous government.
According to a dispatch from New York, : detachment
of Indian troops arrived in Singapore on the 17th to rc-
inforco the British troops stationcd in Mal:yc.
According to a dispatch from ........, Premier
MeKenzio King of Cana.da on the 15th announced the shake-up
of ........, (also, something bout 2,5oo Canadicn troops
landing in Hongkong).
According to & dispatch from Tiontsin, the American
Marines, stationed in Tientsin, will at last be withdrawn
as ordered by the American Government. This f-ct was re-
layed to the various consulates by the Americon Consul-
Gencral on the 17th. The date of their ev.cu tion is un-
known.
The following is on clectrical transcription of
Premier Tojo's speech before the mecting for the encourage-
ment of overseas Jepenese rusidents: The record was inter-
rupted with static. The Premier opened his t lk with a re-
mark tht the holding of a convention for the cncouragement
of oversens Jepin eso residents is a project approprictc vi th
the times nd that he cannot help but admire the fortitude
of those working abroad. In view of the situ:tion, ho
stated, the government is aware of the hardships being
suffered by the Japanese residents cbroad. However, he
claimed, these difficultios could be overcome by the Govern-
ment and the people uniting as one. Ho insisted that the
Japanese residing abroad be patiunt md carry on their lawful
occupation no matter whnt may occur. "Today, at this con-
vention are presont many vho have come from abroad, nd I
would liko to toll these peoplo ......... To those who have
uprooted their foundation and returned to Jap:n. I hope the
government and the people would get together and help them
make thomsolves comfortable. To those who are still working
abroad, I would like ........ with this short remark, I would
liko to close my address."
News of the weck:
In reviowing the past weck, we find th.t our coun-
try hes been colored by the spirit of national solid:rity.
In o ther words, amidst tho ever changing, internationc1
situation, the historic 77th emergency session was convoked
-3-

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.98)
on JZI Program
11/18/41
on the 15th, nd on the 1cth, the opening ceremony was held
in the presonce of the Emperor. Thus, the Diet actually
started business on the 17th. With the passing of the im-
portant bills, an ultra nationel defense footing is now
about to be realized. Although the emergeney sussion is
scheduled for five days only, it is expected ths ll the
important bills will be specdily disposed of. Honce
our fixed policy to accomplish the China Incident nd create
an East Asia Mutunl Prosperity Sphere is agrin being an-
nounced to the world with the support of the nation. (Record
indistinct). Ever since the Manchurien Incident, ih ich led
to the current China Incident, our armed forces have becn
striving for tho porfection of our n.tional dofonse footing
and with tho whole hearted support of the ntion, a military
footing enabling our country to be afraid of no nation has
been accomplishod. And the thing that will make this all
the more strong is the recent revision of the military ser-
vice reguletion. As c result, the rejection of Class C
recruits from military scrvice has become a thing of the
past. Novertheless, there have been meny voluntoers among
thesc class C rocruits in the past. Besides, due to the
fact that many of those rejected s Class C have later
regained their health, the cry that they be recxamined and
onlisted has become strong of late. To comply with this
request ond to litorally realize the motto th t ll men of
our country are soldiers, the army undertook the recent
revision of the military servicc regulation. (Record in-
distinct.) (Something bout the revision doing cway with the
various cxemptions from military servicc). As a result
of this revision, the burning desire of youths who have been
born in militaristic Japan has been realized. To begin with,
the motto that all mon ore soldiers is tho basic principal
of our country and is c. right of the youth of Japan. At
a time when our country, Japan, is facing the crossroads of
her career (?), it should be regerded that this revision of
the military service regulction hns rado our country as solid
as rock. Now, let us consider the cultur:I happenings of
the weok; (Mentioned the plan to construct an art museum in
the hoart of Tokyo; the honoring of the invontors, who had
made some contribution toward the improvenent of our armement,
by the War Ministry nd the announcement of the rowarding of
men for distinguished sorvices at the front by the government
on the 13th.) Now, lets consider thc results of the Japanese
troops operations in China during the past week: (Mentioned
the accomplishment of the operations slong the Yollow River
in Shansi Province, the near accomplishment of the oooration
in the southern part of Shantung Province, and thio mopping-
up operation in Central China).
Woather report of Tokyo.
Japanese National Anthen.
-4-

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.92)
DCK
JOHN EDGAR HOOVER
DIRECTOR
FededtpBurean of Investigation
Anited Statee Department of Justire
JAN1 1942
shifigton, D. U.
OIVISION OF
PA/H
PERSONAL AND
20 th2t
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
For your information and as of possible
94.70/
interest there are attached hereto translated
transcripts of radio broadcasts from Tokyo, Japan
for the period November 22, 1941 to November 30,
1941.4y18
Sincerely yours,
E
Er.20
8
By12G
AN 22 1942
Enclosures
DEPANTMENTOF STATE
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
DECLASSIFIED
JAN 2 9 1942
NARS, Date 5.1.1984
FILED
JAN 10 1942
M
JAN 2 1942
1.27.1984
STATE

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZI Program
Date 11/22/41
Frequency 9535 Kilocycles
(ab)
News:
News of the result of the Japanese troops operation against
the Chinese Red Army in North China from the 14th to the 20th.
News of the result of the Japanese naval air force's operation
from the 8th to the 15th. On the 1lth raided military estublishments
in Shensi and Honan. On the l4th raided .......
.... Patrolled
the coast of China also.
News of the progress of the operation to establish peace and
order zones along the lower estuary of tho Yangtze River.
News of a meoting held by the National Support Society today
to prepare for the 2nd annual national convention to be held in
December. (Mentioned something of the necessity of Japan to be
fortified with a strength to be able to win without fighting).
Nows of the speech made by Presidont Sugiyama of the Japane
Chambur of Commerce at yesterday's general meeting of the seid Chamber
of Commerco. In his speech, ho demended the government to tako
drastic action &gainst the hostile nations and manifosted the deter-
mination of the financial circle to support the government in over-
coming the prosont crisis.
Somothing about a national service regulution being onacted
today and to become offective from December 1. The new regulation to
affect men from 14 to 40 years of age end women from 14 to 25 years
of ago.
Something about the compl tion of an aircraft plant in
Yokohama today. 1,300,000 yen spent for the construction of this
plant and rugerdod to be the biggest in Japan.
Nows of the completion of the preparations for the inaugura-
tion of air sorvice botween Palco and Timor on the 25th. Presont
schedule calls for ono round trip weekly.
According to a disputch from Bangkok, Japanese Ambassador to
Thailand, Tsubakami called on the Premier of Thailend on the 2Oth end
explainod our government's policy as enunciated by Premier Tojo
recontly. Further, Ambassedor Tsubokumi creuted threc now bureaus
with the embassy---namely, ......
.........bureau headed by Councillor
Ishii, Financo Bureau headed by Consul General Ishiyama (?) and
Information Bureau headed by ......... Iwasaki (?). In addition to
this, he is making preparations to creato "next-door neighbor
societies" mong the Japaneso residents of Bangkok.
-1-

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.98)
According to a dispatch from Washington, Presidont Roosevelt,
in an interview with press reporters at the White House yesterday,
refused to say much in regard to the Japanese-American negotiation.
According to a report from Chungking, Gen. Magruder (?),
head of the American military mission to Chungking, is scheduled to
leave Chungking for Singapore today to discuss the strengthening of
the defense of Malaya, Dutch Eust Indics and Chungking. At presont,
thore are about 35,000 troops in Burmu, 75,000 troops in Malaya and
50,Ooo troops in the Dutch East Indies. In overy instance, the whito
troops are stetioned at the front. As a result, the netiv: troops
roportodly are harboring antipathy toward the whito troops, and it is
bolieved that theso natives will not fight to tho last cn the side of
Britain and Americu in the evont of a wer.
As a result of the closing up cf Japanese managed mines, in
Malaya due to the freezo act by Britain, the natives of Malaya who
had been earning their livelihood on theso mines, reportedly are
experioncing great hardships. In addition to this, a great shortago
of food has occurred in Malaya.
News of the cenditicns in the Near East: Reports that
Egyptians, although appearing to be pro-British on the surface will
revolt in the event war spreads in to Egypt. In Iran, considerable
shortage of food-stuffs has occurred since the invasicn of the
British end Soviet trocps. As e rusult, the people of Iren ere
showing great hatred toward kussia and Britain.
News of the Russo-German War: Gorman troops roportedly
have unleashed a fierce attack cn Moscow since the l8th and are
making steady progress. Alsc, Germen truops are reportedly making
stoady progress in the seuth near Restcv.
News of the North African War: German ir force on the
21st raided the positions cf British mochunized trocps long the
Egyptian-Libiyan berder.
According to a dispatch from kuibyshev, the nowspapers of
Russia carried tho toxt of Prenier Toje and Foreign Minister Togc's
speeches for the first timo cn the 2Oth. However, Russian autheri-
ties, though rugarding the speeches soriously, cre refraining frem
making any conment.
According to & dispatch from washington, the merican Govern-
mont yesterday announced the conclusion of a military aid agrecment
with Iceland. This action cf merica is believed to have been takon
to ameliorate the dissatisfaction of the people of Iccland.
According to & dispatch frcm Now York, America repertedly is
remodelling the French ship, Normandio, 83443 tons, intc en circraft
carriur in preparation of wr.
-2-

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.96)
Comment on Current Events:
(First part of record indistinct. Secms to be an elcctrical
transcription of somo cno's talk portaining to the results obtainod
by tho cmorgency sossien of the Diut. It probably is the talk made
by Prosident Sugiyama of the Japan Chamber of Conmerce, mentioned in
the abovo nows brcadcast.) The cyos of the world today are focused
upon the White House in Washingten. There, Envoys Kurusu tnd Nomura
are carrying cn e nogotiction with Prosident Rocsevolt and Secretary
of Stete Hull. As to the outccme of the talk, ncthing definite can
be said at this timc. However, I cun definitoly say tlet three ro-
sults wero obtained by the recent omergoncy sessien of t. Dict. One
of these is that our cuuntry's diplomatic policy has boen n de clear.
That is, on the 17th Premier Tojo uxplained the oxpectaticns of our
country toward the third powers as: (1) to rufrain from cbstructing
the accomplishment of the China incident, wich our country is striving
for, (2) to liquidato thoir hestilo action as manifosted by their
economic blockade and rustore normal ocenomic relations, besides
manifosting no direct urmod intirmidatien, and (3) to prevent the
spreading of the Europoan Var. Premier T je monticned the fact that
our country hes beon carrying on a negoti: ticn with America ovor
sinco April of this yeir and that no agreoment has been reached yet
in spite of cur country's concili&tory : ttitude and stated that there
is a. limit to cur conciliatory ttitude nd the t in the evont cur
existonce and interusts ure thruatened, our country is prepared to
take drastic actions t preserve them. In other words, he revealed
his beliuf that such & long time is not necossry fir the conclusion
of the negotiation with morica. as a result, ur pelicy toward
America has been m.de clear. The sece nd .chievement cf the emergency
session is the clarification of the nation's toward the cmorgoncy.
Thet is, the House cf Peors on the 17th mede ................ to cope
with tho fcreign and domostic situation und thus cvercano the present
crisis. The Heuse cf Comons en the fcllcwing day unanimously
adopted a resclution, as follows:
Whoreas the confusicn of the werld has become rently aggra-
vated and the hostile netions are misinterpreting our ccuntry's
.....and causing cur country's future (?) t bocome very
critical:
Whoreas, the na tien, toc, is......
Now, therefore, be it resclved that the goverent in accerd-
encc with her unshakuble pclicy...............and adept the ccurso
that shculd be taken for the creation of the East Asia Mutual
Prospority Sphero and the establishment of world poaco.
The unshakablo pclicy menticned in the abeve ruscluticn is the
accemplishment cf tho China Incidont, the creation cf the East Asia
Mutual Prosperity Sphuro and the ustablishmont cf wcrld peace. The
spirit (?) manifestud in the above resclution is that of rising high
intc hecvon tnd ..................... The third achicvoment of the
omergency session is the strongthoning of our country's financial
power. One of the purposes fer the convocaticn of this emergoncy
session was for the cnactment of the emergency military appropriation (?).
This omorgoncy military uppreprit tion was passed in cne day by the
House of Commons.. Thereforo, tho budgot (?) for ...........has come
-3-

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.97)
to be 26,000,000,000 yon, and the budget passed by the emergency
session is .......
...... yen. (Record indistinct. Appoars to be
the number of kinds of bills passed by the emergency sossion).
Henco, the iet as well as thc netion, as yeu seo, has no feeling of
uneasiness. Fellow members, it is an opinion of lcng standing that the
financial power of a nation doclines in timo of wer. However, although
four yeers of the China Incident have passed, our country's financial
strength has increased rather than decrecsed. This is not strange.
In this holy w:r, our country has mado every effort to carry out a
war of destruction and, at the sumo time, she streve for tho purfection
of hor producticn power. In regard to the develcpenent of hur natural
rosources, for examplo, it has been remarkably advanccd cnd threugh
her eccnomic collaboration with Manchcukuo, she .............
In tho production of putroleum, alono, in North Chinc, it has boen
increased, .............. It is ten times that which wes being pro-
duced by our country prior to the cutbreak of tho Incident. Our
trado with Thailand, tc, has increused gro tly, thus doing away
with cur four of e shortage of oil forever. According tc the oxplana-
ticn of Forcign Minister Kaya, our country hes ............
23,000,000,000 yen over since the outbruak of the Ircident. This is
five timos the ............. of 4,000,o00,000 yen. The total savings
of the pecple from the beginning of the Incident up to September of
this year is 41,000,000,000 yen. This is five times the savings prior
tc the cutbreak of the incidont. As a rosult, 20,000,000,000 yen of
the bonds issued since the cutbreek of the ineident have been digested
and 23,000,000,000 yen has boen apprcpriated for the porfection cf
production. In time of wer it is rule for ........... und forcign
oxchange to drop, but ccntrary to this, cur country's...........
and exchange have ramained stable in this incident. As menticned,
the clurification of our ccuntry's pelicy, the mnifestation of cur
country's determin: tion and the certific.ticn cf the strengnoss of
cur country's financial power are the cchievements of the recent
cmergency sossien of the Dict. Recently, merice, Brituin and the
Dutch East Indies daringly carried cut the outragecus action of
freczing the assets of our country as well as Manchoukuc and China.
as a rusult, I believe it is causing considorable inconvenience to
our fellow-ccuntryment residing abroud. However, such things as the
freezing of assets and ceenomic blockade may bo................
but they alsc cause ccnsiderablo h rdship on the cther neticn. Consu-
quontly, Amorica end Britain are buing confrunted with the possibility
..... their ssets in Japan and Manchcukuc. The ......
caused by the freezing of uur assots and eccnomic blockade cn cur
ccuntry is like ..............., it may hurt t first, but............
By this, the oconcnic focting dopending upen merica and Britain will
be liquidated and en ccon my of solf-sufficiency will be brought about
in East Asin. Ycur inconvenionce will be enly tomporary, for I
believe that the missicn assigned to the Japenesc raco will be
accomplishod within the near future.
Progrem fer the coming week.
Japanose Na.tional Anthem.
-4-

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.99)
tation JZI Program
Date 11/22/41
Frequency 9535 Kilocycles
(ab)
News:
News of the result of the Japanese troops operation against
the Chinese Red Army in North China from the 14th to the 20th.
News of the result of the Japanese naval air force's operation
from the 8th to the 15th. On the 1lth raided military est:blishments
in Shensi and Honan. On the l4th raided .........
Patrolled
the coast of China also.
News of the progruss of the operation to establish peace and
order zones along the lower estuary of the Yangtze River.
News of a meoting held by the Nalional Support Society today
to prepare for the 2nd annual national convention to be held in
December. (Mentioned something of the necossity of Japan to be
fortified with a strength to be able to win without fighting).
News of the spcech made by Presidont Sugiyama of the Japane.
Chamber of Commerce at yesterday's general meeting of the seid Chamber
of Commerce. In his speech, ho demended the government to tako
drastic action &gainst the hostile nations and manifosted tho deter-
mination of the financial circle to support the government in over-
coming the prosont crisis.
Somothing about a national service regulution being onacted
today and to become offective from December 1. The new regulation to
effect men from 14 to 40 years of &ge and women from 14 to 25 years
of ago.
Something about the compl tion of an aircraft plant in
Yokohama today. 1,300,000 yen spent for tho construction of this
plant and rugerded to be the biggest in Japan.
News of the completion of the preparations for the inaugura-
tion of air sorvice botwoen Paluo and Timor on the 25th. Prosent
schedule calls for ono round trip weekly.
According to a disputch from Bangkok, Japanose Ambassador to
Thailend, Tsubakami called on the Premier of Thailand on the 2Oth end
explained our government's policy as cnunciated by Premier Tojo
recontly. Further, Ambassador Tsubokemi created threc now bureaus
with the cmbassy---namely, .....
.....bureau headed by Councillor
Ishii, Financo Bureau headed by Consul General Ishiyama (?) and
Information Buroau headed by ......... Iwasaki (?). In eddition to
this, he is making preparations to creato "next-door neighbor
societios" among the Japaneso residents of Bangkok.
-1-

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.98)
According to a dispatch from Washington, President Roosevelt,
in an interview with press reportors at the White House yesterday,
refused to say much in regard to the Japanese-American negotiation.
According to a report from Chungking, Gen. Magruder (?),
hoad of the American military mission to Chungking, is scheduled to
leave Chungking for Singapore today to discuss the strengthening of
the defense of Malaya, Dutch East Indics and Chungking. At presont,
thore are about 35,000 troops in Burma, 75,000 troops in Malaya and
50,O0o troops in the Dutch East Indies. In overy instance, the whito
troops are stetioned at the front. As a result, the notiv: troops
roportodly are harboring antipathy toward the whito troops, and it is
bolieved that theso natives will not fight to tho last cn the side of
Britain and Americu in the event of a wer.
As a result of the closing up of Jupanese managed mines, in
Malaya due to the freezo nct by Britain, the natives of Malaya who
had been earning their livelihood on these mines, reportedly are
experiencing great hardships. In addition to this, a great shortage
of food has occurred in Malaya.
News of the cenditicns in the Near East: Reports that
Egyptians, elthough appearing tc be pro-British on the surface will
revolt in the event war spreads in to Egypt. In Iran, considerable
shortage of food-stuffs has occurred sincc the invasicn of the
British end Soviet trocps. As e result, the people of Iran ere
showing great hatred toward kussia and Britain.
News of the Russo-German War: Gurman troops roportedly
have unlcashed a fierce attack cn Moscow since tho 18th and are
moking steady progress. Alsc, German troops are reportedly making
steady progress in the south neer Rostcv.
News of the North African War: German air force on the
21st raided the positions of British mochunized trocps along the
Egyptian-Libiyan bordor.
According to a dispatch from Kuibyshev, the nowspapers of
Russia carried the text of Premier Toje and Foreign Minister Togc's
speeches for the first time cn the 2Oth. However, kussian uuthori-
ties, though rogarding the speeches seriously, tre refraining from
ma.king any comment.
According to a dispatch frem Washington, the merican Govern-
mont yesterday announced the conclusion of a military aid agrsement
with Iceland. This action of merica is believed to have been taken
to ameliorate the dissatisfaction of the people of Iccland.
According to a dispatch from Now York, America repcrtedly is
romodelling the French ship, Normandio, 83443 tons, intc en aircraft
carrier in preparation of wcr.
-2-

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.96)
Comment on Current Events:
(First part of record indistinct. Secms to be an electrical
transcription of somo cno's tulk portaining to the rusults obtainod
by tho cmorgency sessien of the Diut. It probably is the talk made
by President Sugiyama of the Japan Chamber of Conmerce, mentioned in
tho above nows brcadeast.) The eyos of the world today aro focused
upon the White House in Washingten. Thore, Envoys Kurusu and Nomura
are carrying cn e nogotiation with Prosident Rocsevolt and Secretary
of Stete Hull. As to the outceme of the talk, ncthing dofinite can
be said at this time. However, I cun definitely say the t three re-
sults woro obtained by tho rocent omergoncy sessien of t Dict. One
of these is that our country's diplomatic policy has buen :de clear.
That is, on the 17th Premier Tojo oxplained the oxpoctaticns of cur
country toward the third powers as: (1) to rofrain from cbstructing
the cccomplishment of the China incident, which our country is striving
for, (2) to liquidato their hcstilo action as manifosted by their
economic blockade und rustore normal oconomic relations, besides
manifosting no direct urmod intimidatien, and (3) to prevent the
spreading of the Europoan Var. Prumier T. jo montioned the fact that
our country hes beon carrying cn e negoti: ticn wi th Amorica evor
since April cf this yeir and thtt no agrucment has buon roached yet
in spite of cur country's concilistory : ttitude and st:ted that there
is & limit to cur conciliatory attitude and thet in the evont ur
existonce and interests are throatuned, our country is prepared t
take drastic actions t. preserve them. In other words, he revealed
his belief that such & long time is not necoss ry fer thc conclusicn
of the negotiation with morica. as a result, ur pelicy toward
America has been m.de clear. The secend tchievunent ef the emercency
session is the clarification of the natien's toward the onergoncy.
That is, the House cf Peors on the 17th mede ................ to cpe
with tho foreign and domestic situation and thus overcane the present
crisis. The Heuse of Commons en the fcllcwing day unanim usly
adopted a resolution, as follows:
Wherens the cenfusien of the werld has beceme rently aggra-
vated and the hcstile nations are misinterpreting cur ccuntry's
........and causing cur country's future (?) t bocome very
critical:
Whoreas, the na tion, toc, is........
Now, therefore, be it rusclved thet the governnent in accerd-
encc with her unshakable pclicy...............ahd adcpt thc ccurso
that sheuld be taken for the creation cf the East Asia Mutual
Prosperity Sphoro and tho establishment of world peccc.
The unshakable pelicy menticned in the above resclution is the
accomplishment of the China 1ncident, the creation cf tho East Asia
Mutual Prosperity Sphuro and tho ostablishmunt cf werld peace. Tho
spirit (?) manifostod in the above rosclution is thet of rising high
into hetvon tnd ..................... The third achicvement cf the
omergoncy session is the strongthening of our ccuntry's financial
power. One of the purposes for tho ccnvocaticn of this emergoncy
session was for the cnactment of the emorgency military appropriction (?).
This emorgoncy military upprepriation was passed in cno day by the
House of Commons.. Therefero, tho budgot (?) for ...........has ccme
-3-

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.97)
to be 26,000,000,000 yon, and the budget passed by the emergency
session is ............... yen. (Record indistinct. Appoars to be
the number of kinds of bills passed by the emergency sossion).
Hence, the iet as well as thc netion, as yeu seo, has no feeling of
uneusiness. Fellow members, it is an opinion of lcng standing that the
financial power of a nation doclines in time of wr. However, althcugh
four yeers of the China Incident havo passed, our country's financial
strength has increasod rather than decrcased. This is not strange.
In this holy wer, our country has mado every effort to carry out a
war of destruction and, at the sume time, she strcve for thc porfection
of hor producticn power. In regtard to the developement of hor na.tural
rosources, for oxamplo, it has boen remarkebly advanccd n? through
her eccnomic collaboration with Manchcukuo, sho ....
In tho production of petroleum, alono, in North Chinc, it has been
increased, .............. It is ten timos that which wes being pro-
duced by our country prior to the cutbreak of tho Incident. Our
trade with Thailand, tc, has increased gruatly, thus doing away
with cur foar of & shortage of oil forever. According tc the oxplena-
ticn of Foreign Minister Kaya, our country hes ......
23,000,000,000 yen cver sinco the outbrcak of the Incidont. This is
fivo timos the ............. cf 4,000,o00,000 yen. The total savings
of the pecple from the beginning of the Incident up to September of
this yoar is 41,000,000,000 yen. This is five times the savings prior
to the cutbreak of the incidont. As a rosult, 20,000,000,000 yen of
the bonds issued since the cutbreek of the incident have been digested
and 23,000,000,000 yen has boen apprcpriated for the perfection cf
production. In timo of wer it is rule fer ........... und forcign
oxchange to drop, but centrary to this, cur country's.....
and exchango have ramained stable in this incidont. As menticned,
the clarification of our ccuntry's pelicy, the manifestation of cur
country's dotermin tion nnd the certific.ticn cf the strongness of
cur country's financial power are the cchiovements of the recent
cmergency sossien of the Dict. Recently, Americs, Britain and the
Dutch Eust Indies daringly carricd out the cutragecus action of
freczing the assets of our ccuntry as well as Manchoukuc and China.
as  rosult, I believe it is causing considerable inconvenience to
our fellow-countryment residing abrond. liowever, such things as the
but they also cause considerablo hardship on the other netion. Conse-
quently, Amorica end Britain re buing confronted with the possibility
of ................. their ssets in Japan cnd Manch ukuc. Tho ......
causod by tho freezing of vur assots and eccnomic blockade cn cur
ccuntry is like ..............., it may hurt at first, but.........
By this, the oconenic focting, dopending upen merica and Britain will
be liquidated and en economy of solf-sufficiency will be brought about
in East Asia. Ycur inconvenionce will be enly tomporary, for I
believo that the missicn assigned to the Japenesc race will bo
accomplishod within the near future.
Program fer the coming week.
Japanose Na.tional Anthem.
-4-

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.98)
8
0
Station JZI Program
Date 11/22/41
Frequency 9535 Kilocycles
(ab)
News!
News of the result of the Japanese troops operation against
the Chinese Red Army in North China from the 14th to the 20th.
News of the result of the Japanese naval air force's operation
from the 8th to the 15th. On the 1lth raided military establishments
in Shensi and Honan. On the l4th raided .........
Patrolled
the coast of China also.
News of the progress of the operation to establish peace and
order zones along the lower estuary of the Yangtze River.
News of a meoting hold by the Na ional Support Society today
to prepare for the 2nd annual national convention to be held in
December. (Mentioned something of the necossity of Japan to be
fortified with a strength to be able to win without fighting).
News of the speech made by Prosidont Sugiyama of the Japane
Chamber of Commerce at yesterday's general meeting of the seid Chamber
of Commerce. In his speech, ho demanded the government to take
drastic action &gainst the hostile nations and manifosted the deter-
mination of the financial circle to support the government in over-
coming the prosont crisis.
Somothing about a naticnal survice regulution being enacted
today and to become offective from December 1. The new regulation to
affect men from 14 to 40 years of &ge and women from 14 to 25 years
of ago.
Something about the complution of an aircraft plant in
Yokohama today. 1,300,000 yen spent for the construction of this
plant and regerded to be the biggest in Japan.
News of the completion of the preparations for the ineugura-
tion of air service botween Palco and Timor on the 25th. Prosont
schedule calls for one round trip weekly.
According to a disputch from Bangkok, Japanese Ambassador to
Thailand, Tsubakami called on the Premier of Thailand on the 2Oth and
explained our government's policy as enunciated by Premier Tojo
recontly. Further, Amb&ssador Tsubokami created threc now bureaus
with the cmbassy---namely, ...............bureau headed by Councillor
Ishii, Finance Bureau headed by Consul General Ishiyama (?) and
Information Buroau headed by ......... Iwasaki (?). In eddition to
this, he is meking preparations to creato "next-door neighbor
societios" mong the Japanese rosidents of Bungkok.
-1-

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.97)
According to a dispatch from Washington, President Rooseyelt,
in an interview with press reporters at the White House yesterday,
refused to say much in regard to the Japanese-American negotintion.
According to a report from Chungking, Gen. Magruder (?),
head of the American military mission to Chungking, is scheduled to
leave Chungking for Singapore today to discuss the strongthening of
the defense of Malaya, Dutch East Indics and Chungking. At presont,
thore are about 35,000 troops in Burma, 75,000 troops in Malaya and
50,Ooo troops in the Dutch East Indies. In overy instance, the whito
troops are stetioned at the front. As a result, the notiv: troops
roportodly are harboring antipathy toward the whito troops, and it is
bolieved thet theso natives will not fight to tho last cn the side of
Britain and Americu in the evont of a wer.
As a result of the closing up cf Japanese managed mines, in
Malaya due to the freeze act by Britain, the natives of Malaya who
had been earning their livelihood on these mines, reportedly are
experioncing great hardships. In addition to this, a great shortago
of food has occurred in Malaya.
News of the conditions in the Near East: Reports that
Egyptians, although appearing tc be pro-British on the surface will
revolt in the event war sprends in to Egypt. In Iran, considerable
shortage of food-stuffs has occurred since the invasicn of the
British tnd Soviet trocps. As a result, the people of Iran ere
showing great hatred toward kussia and Britain.
News of the Russo-German War: Gurman troops roportedly
have unleashed & fierce attack on Moscow since the 18th und are
making steudy progress. Alsc, German troops are reportedly making
steady progress in the seuth near Restcv.
News of the North African War: German air force on the
21st raided the pesitions cf British mochanized trecps tlong the
Ecyptian-Libiyan border.
According to a dispatch from Kuibyshev, the nowspapers of
Russia carried the text of Prenier Tojc and Foreign Minister Togc's
speeches for the first time cn the 20th. However, kussian authori-
ties, though rugarding the speeches soriously, cre refraining frem
ma.king eny conment.
According to a dispetch frem Washington, the merican Govern-
mont yesterday announced the conclusion of a military aid agrocment
with Iceland. This action of m rica is believed tc have been taken
to ameliorate the dissatisfaction of the people of Iccland.
According to & dispetch frem Now York, America repcrtedly is
remodelling the French ship, Normandio, 83443 tons, intc en aircraft
carrier in preparation of wr.
-2-

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.97)
Comment on Current Events:
(First part of rocord indistinct. Secms to be an elcctrical
transcription of somo cno's talk portaining to the results obtainod
by tho cmorgency sossien of the Dict. It probably is the talk made
by Presidont Sugiyama of the Japan Chamber of Commerce, mentionod in
the above nows broadenst.) The cyos of the world today aro focused
upon the White House in Washingten. There, Envoys Kurusu and Nomura
are carrying cn e nogotiction with Prosident Roosevolt and Secretary
of Stete Hull. As to the outccme of the talk, ncthing definite can
be said at this time. Howover, I cun definitcly say thet three re-
sults wero obtained by tho recent omergoncy sossien of t. Dict. Ono
of these is that our ccuntry's diplomatic policy has buen nn do clear.
That is, on the 17th Premier Tojo oxplained the expoctaticns of cur
country toward the third powers as: (1) to rofrain from cbstructing
the cccomplishmont of the Chira incident, which our country is striving
for, (2) to liquidato their hcstilo action as manifosted by their
economic blockade and rustore normal uconomic relations, besides
manifosting no direct urmed intimidatien, and (3) to prevont the
spreading of the Europoan Var. Premier Teje montioned the fact that
our country hes beon crrying on a negoti: ticn with America evor
sinco April cf this yeir and thtat no agreoment has been reached yet
in spite of cur country's conciliatory : ttitude and st:ted that there
is a limit to cur ccnciliatory attitude and thct in the evont ur
existonce and interests are threatuned, our country is prepared to
take drastic sctions t preserve them. In other words, he revealed
his beliuf that such & long time is not necosstry fer the conclusicn
of the negotiation with merica. as a result, (ur pclicy toward
America has been mt.de clear. The secend tchievement cf the emercency
session is the clarification of the nation's toward the cmergency.
Thut is, the House cf Peors on the 17th mede ................ to cope
with the foreign and domestic situation and thus overcane the present
crisis. The Heuse cf Coamons en the fcllcwing day unanimously
adepted a resclutien, as follows:
Whereas the cenfusien cf tho world has beceme reatly aggra-
vated and the hostile netiens are misinterpreting cur ccuntry's
......and causing cur country's future (?) t bucome very
critical:
Whoreas, .the na.tion, toc, is.........
Now, therofore, be it ruselved thtt the goverment in accerd-
enco with hur unshakablo policy...............ahd adopt thc ccurso
that sheuld be taken for the creation of the East sia Mutual
Prosperity Sphere and tho establishmont of world petco.
The unshakable pelicy menticned in the abeve resclution is the
acccmplishment of tho China Ineidont, tho creation cf tho East Asia
Mutual Prosperity Sphero and the ustablishment of werld pcace. Tho
spirit (?) manifestod in the above rosolution is that of rising high
into hecvon ind ....
... The third achicvement cf the
omergoncy session is the strongthening cf our ccuntry's financial
power. One of the purposes for tho convecaticn of this emergoncy
session was for the cnactment of the emurgency military appropriatien (?).
This emorgoncy military uppropriction was passed in cno day by the
Houso of Commons.. Therefcro, the budgot (?) for ...........has come
-3

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.96)
to be 26,000,000,000 yon, and the budget passed by the emergency
session is ............... yen. (Record indistinct. Appoars to be
the number of kinds of bills passed by the emergency sossion).
Henco, the iet as well as the netion, as yeu see, has no feeling of
uneasiness. Fellow members, it is an opinion of lcng standing that the
finencial power of a nation doclines in time of wer. However, althcugh
four yeers of the China Incidont have passed, our country's financial
strength has increasod rather than docret:sed. This is not strange.
In this holy wer, our country has mado every effort to carry cut a
war of destruction and, at the sumo timo, she streve for tho porfection
of hor productien power. In regard to the dovelcpenent of hor natural
resources, for examplo, it has been remarkebly advanccd n through
her eccnomic collaboration with Manchcukuc, she ......
In tho production of potroleum, alono, in North Chinc, it has boen
increased, .............. It is ten timos that which was being prc-
duced by our country prior to the cutbroak of tho Incident. Our
trade with Thailand, t c, has increased gro tly, thus doing away
with cur foar of & shortage of oil forever. According tc the oxplana-
ticn of Forcign Ministor Kaya, our country has ............
23,000,000,000 yen cver sinco the outbruak of the Incidont. This is
five timos the ............. f 4,000,000,000 yen. The total savings
of the pecple from tho beginning of the Incident up to September of
this year is 41,000,000,000 yen. This is five times the savings prior
tc the cutbreak of the incident. As a rosult, 20,000,000,000 yen of
tho bonds issued since the cutbreak of the incident heve been digested
and 23,000,000,000 yen has boen apprcpriated for the perfection cf
production. In timo of wer it is rule fer ........... und forcign
oxchange to drop, but ccntrary to this, our country's........
and exchango have raacined stable in this incident. As menticned,
the clarification of our ccuntry's pelicy, tho mnifestation of cur
country's determin tion rnd the certific.ticn cf the strengncss cf
cur country's financial power re the cchievements of tho recent
emergency sossien of the Diet. Recently, hmericn, Britain and the
Dutch East Indies daringly carried cut the cutragecus action of
freezing the assets of our ccuntry as well as Manchoukuc and China.
as  rosult, I believe it is causing considorable inconvenience to
our fellow-countrymont residing abroud. However, such things as the
froezing of assots and ccenomic blockade may bo.......
but they also cause considerable h: rdship un the other netion. Consu-
quently, Amorica end Brituin tre buing confronted with the possibility
of.......
....... their ssets in Japan and Mnnch ukuc. Tho ......
caused by tho freczing of our assots and eccnomic blockade cn cur
ccuntry is like ..............., it may hurt at first, but...........
By this, the ccencnic fe.ting doponding upen merica and Britain will
be liquidated and an ecen my of solf-sufficiency will be brcught about
in East Asia. Ycur inconvenionce will bo cnly tomporary, for I
believo that the mission a.ssigned to the Japenese race will be
accomplishod within tho near future.
Program fcr the coming week.
Japanese N.ticnal Anthem.
-4-

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.99)
tion JZI Program, 11/23/41
News:
Weather report
Today being the day of Harvest Festival, the emperor today
made preparations to observe it from tonight to tomorrow morning.
News of the observance of thanksgiving, or harvost festival,
at Meiji Shrine today. Sponsored by National Support Society.
News of the scheduled gubernatorial conference to be held
at the Premier's residence tomorrow.
News of the assistant director of the information bureau,
Okumura's talk over the JOAK station yesterday evening. In it,
he stated, "The only course left for our country and people is to
advance forward. If we advance and come across an obstacle, we
have only to overcome it. Before our righteous action and pa-
triotism of our people, there is absolutely nothing to fear."
News of the great increase in the savings of the people and
the setting of this year's goal at 17, 000,000,000 yen by the
Finance Ministry.
News of the inaugural ceremony of the newly organized Dai
Nippon Sangyo Hokkoku Kai (Industrial National ServiceSociety of
Japan) held today at the Welfare Ministry.
News of the publication of & five column picture of the
might of the Japanese Navy with the caption "Will Absolutely
Protect the Pacific" by the Tokyo Nichi-Nichi Shimbun on the front
page or her today's paper. Today's picture, which shows a war-
ship cutting through a stormy sea with e heavy bomber flying
above, happens to be the fourth of the s ries. The explanation
is as follows: Our wars ips have been given greater offensive
power through the installation of mouern armament and the increase
of speed and have come to acquire an unshakeble footing (?). Upon
these warships, which are sailing through the boundless sea, are
placed the confidence and hope of the people of this maritime
country."
Shanghai news pertaining to the decreas ng power of Chungking
and the gradually transformation of the Chungl:ing Government into
a puppet government of America and Britain.
Shanghai news pertaining to the pitiful condition in
Chungking caused by shortege of food-stuffs and inflation.
-1-

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZI Program, 11/23/41,con't.
News of the opinion being expressed within Shanghei financial
circles that the economy of Shenghai will come to depend upon the
economy of the Mutual Prosperity Sphere.
Canton news reporting Chungking's plan to construct a new
road from Chungking to India. Accomplishment believed to be
impossible.
News of the recent progress made by the Nanking Government.
Now has an army of 400,O00 men and has a military acadomy and e
school of aeronautical affairs.
News of the preparation of the Nippon Boeki Hokoko Remmei
(National Service Through Trade Federation of Japan) to undertake
a survey of the trade possibilitics of the Mutual Prosperity
Sphere. Created a committee for the investigation of the industrial
and trading possibilities of East Asia with sub-committees in
Korea, Formosa, Manchoukuo, Chins, French Indo-China and Thailand.
News of the ecquisition of the right to mine the iron ore
in French Indo-China by the Indo-China Mineral Mining Co., a
subsidiary of the Formosa Colonization Co. in Formosa.
According to  dispatch from Washington, three official dis-
cussi ons and one unorficial discussion hns been made in the
Japanese-American negotiation up to the 20th since the beginning
of tne negotiation on the 20th. Yestorday, the Department of
State announced that enother unofficial discussion will be held
that night (22nd) et Secretary of State Hull's home. Since a
meeting of the representatives of Britsin, Dutch East Indies
and Chungking is scheduled to be held on the moming of the 22nd,
the unofficial meeting between Sucretary of state Hull and Japan's
representatives is drawing considurable intor st.
News of the Russo-Germen var:
A London dispatch in regard to the new offensive against
Moscow sterted by the German troops on the l8th and in regard to
the situation at Kalinin. (Report favorable to Germeny)
A German conmunique claiming the capture of Rostov on
the 22nd.
A German communique announcing the staging of fierce fighting
between British and German troops in North Africa and an Itelian
communique claiming certain amount of victory for the Axis forces.
Comment on Current Events:
Topic "The strength of Jepan's Economy"; The hostile nations
-2-

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.98)
LES
Station JZI Program, 11/23/41, Con't.
surrounding Japan are not only strengthening armament to
strengthen the anti-Jepanese encirclement, but also tightening
their anti-Japanese economic blockade. It is needless to state
at this time what important role economy plays in tine of war,
and the outrageous anti-Japanese economic blockade of the hostile
netions is nothing other than their attempt to block the progress
of our country. Going a little further, it can be scid that since
they cennot do it with their armed (?) strength, th y are
scheming to check our country's progress from th: sconomic aspect.
Nevertheless, it can be seid that such scheme of theirs is a
great mistake. That is, if it were Japan of ten years ago, it
would be a different story. This is becauce the economic strength
of Japan today has developed to such an extent that it is fully
capsble of wiping avny such desperate interferonce of the hostile
powers and of meintaining its self-sfficiency.
Before the emergency session of the Diet, Foreign Minister
Kaya emphasized that our economic condition is very sound and
at the general meeting of the Japen Chember of Commerce held on
the 2lst, President Aichiro Fujiyamc of the said Chamber of Com-
merce, too oxplained the soundness of our economy from various
angles end expressed our firm conviction to overcome the obstacles
interfering the accomplishment of our national policy. These
pre remerks based upon our country's strong and opulent economic
footing. As you ali know, our country has alrendy been fighting
four and a half years, but just as she hes shown a remerkable
progress in the military aspects, she has made a great stride in
her economic and financial aspects too. In regard to hur financial
aspect, for cxample, the following progress can be noted.
That is when the totel uxpenditures since the outbrenk of
the Sino-Japanese incident in 1937 ars added to the emergency
military appropriation and other expenditures passed by the recent
emergency session of the Diet, they amount to about 48,400,000,0p0
yen. This amount fer surpasses the total expunditures of our
country from the beginning of the Meiji ra (1868) to 1936, but
this enormous expenditure has been met without ny difficulty
through the revenues obtained from tax:tion, monopoly (?) rights
and bonds. By this fact, we can re dily perccive how opulent and
strong our country's economic power is. Furthermore the percentoge
of the taxes assessed ageinst the income of the people is only about
16 or 17 percent. Comparing this with Englnnd's we find that
England's hns been 21 percent in 1938 and is now over 26 percent.
On considering this fect, we can say that there is still much in
reserve in our country's revenue from taxation. In ddition,
the payment of texes has become very good ever since the putbreak
of the Incident, in porticular. Furthormore, in regard to the
national bonds, 24,100,000,000 yen worth have been issued since
the outbreak of the Incident. Even in this, sound and cxcellent
results have been achieved (?). Now, in rogard to the savings of
-3-

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.97)
Station JZI Program, 11/23/41, Con't.
the people, it, reflecting the fiery patriotism of the nation,
has increased year by year, and the total savings since the
outbresk of the Incident, alone, is 41,000,000,000 yen. This
amount has either been digested by the bonds or invested into
the projects aiming for the perfection of the joint production
power of Japen, Manchoukuo and China. Hence, the important
resources existing boundlessly on the continent rre being gradually
developed end even our country's trade with French Indo-China md
Theiland as well as the other nations of the Sout h's made a
remarkable progross. As & result, it can be said that our
nationel defense econmic power has been ell the more strengthened.
Next, let us consider the statc of our production fscilities
and res purcos, vhich sre indispensable to our national defense.
It is needless to mention that the development of our domestic
resources heve been repidly furthered since the outbreak of the
Incident. Again, it is worthy of note that the economic collabora-
tion among Japan, Monchoukuo and China has become markudly close.
As a result, the boundloss resourcus of the grcat continent are
contributing greatly toward the purfection of pur national de-
fense economic power, which is being used for the creation of a
new order in East Asia.
At present, the.........of coal in North China is said to
be 2,1o0 tons (?). This figure can be said to be ton times the
coal resource of Japm. By this fact, alone, it can be seen how
strong the econoaic pover connecting Jepan, Manchoukuo andchina
has become. Furthermore, when the mount of investment th't has
been made during the four years of the Incident to strengthen
this economic pover connecting Jepon, Monchoulouo ond Chine, vhich
will become the foundetion of the gre ter East Asir lutual
Prosperity Sphore, is c mp-red........., we find it to be about
5 times plus. This can be nia to be an indication that the
essential cconomic power connecting Japan with Manchoukuo cnd
China has fimly strengthened. In etner words, th. economic
policy to cope with the emergoney, which has buen carried out
by tho Konoye Crbinst, is meking c sound progress, end herein
are we able to see its rasults being cchieved day by day. In
Chungking, it is reported that one Koku (oquivalont to 4.9629
bushels) of rice cost 500 yen. Hovever, in Japrn which is carry-
ing out a sound economic policy, it can be snid that no sigh of
such ovil inflation has made its appearance yet and thot she is
marching along a steady course. In his s puech before the emer-
gency session of the Diet, Finance Minister Kaya explained this
sound economic policy and stated that it has been customary in
past wars for a nation's finences to decline and her forcign ex-
change to be disturbed, but in our country there has been no such
change in spite of the Incident.(NorE: Production of sufficient
coal is well known to be a serious problem for Japan. The fact
is they sre not producing nearly enough; resulting in shortages and
high prices. There is a widespread power shortage all over Japan
-4~

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.97)
Station JzI Program, 11/23/41, Con't.
and many steps have been taken such as only running one elevator
in public buildings and thon only to the upper floors. Also,
heat in Hotels is only on for about 1 hour out of 24, and re-
ducing number of lights in all pleces, etc., etc. The mines in
North China are constantly being attacked and sabotaged by
Guerrillas and only producing about 30% of normal, and the expense
and lack of shipping has made Haiphong coal scarce. This will
probably be alleviated somewhat by use of ships norm lly in U.S.
trade end now possible idle, if not used by the novy. (T..J.)
Hence, he concluded, this indicates that our country's
economic policy is progressing smoothly. This remark may be said
to be a frank manifestotion f the strongth and stability of
our country's presont economy. Hence, the hostile nstions, which
have dared to under-ostinute our country's econ omic strength,
ought to realize by this rcmark the strongth of our ec onomic
power to withstand whatever obstoelo. As mentioned previpusly,
Mr. Aichiro Fujiyame, prosident or the Japan Chamber of Commerce,
explcined the whole-haarted attitude of support toward tho
government harbored by pur civilien econ mic circle and expressing
his hope that the govurnment will carry out its fixed policy, he
concluded that the Chambers of Commerce throughout Japan, today,
are prepared to a bide by the government nd work toward the
overcoming of the difficulties. By this we are able to s ce the
strength of pur country's economic powor to endure the oppressions
of the hostile nations and the onthuslesm of our people, wh) are
fortified with the pover cnd spirit sufficient t: break through
their encirclement.
-5~

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.99)
STATION JZI Program
Date 11/25/41
(ab)
Frequency 9,535 Kilocycles
News:
The National Support Society held a lecture meeting to
strengthen the morale of the nation this afternoon at Hibiya Civic
Auditorium. Speeches were given by Fremier Tojo, Pres. Suzuki of
the Planning Board, Finance Minister Kaya, and Vice Pres. Ando of
the National Support Society. All expressed the deteimination of
the nation to overcome the present emergency. That is, romier
Tojo emphasized the fact that there is nothing to fear as long as
the firm determination of the government, supported by national
solidarity, exists. Vice-President Ando stated, "At the recent
emergency session of the Diet, the Government made public her
three diplomatic principles. In other words, the government had
put in words what the nation had been wanting to say. By this,
we can see the great support and confidence being placed within
the government by the people, and the solidarity and determination
of the people has been strengthened all the more. Absolutely up-
holding the thrce diplomatic principles and watching the develope-
ment of thc acute situation on thc Pacific, the nation is prepared
to do their part (?) inmediatcly should the governmont so order.
The time has now comc to put into practico and spread our
country's ideal of universal concordia throughout the world."
In commemoration of the fifth anniversary of the anti-
Commintern pact today, the Japanese, Italian-German Friendship
Society held a banquet at Takara Tei (name of the toa house).
On the other hand, a mecting of all the reprosentatives of the
anti-Commintern Pact is scheduled to be held in Borlin today.
Announcement madc by the forcign office that various
aids are being given the evacuces returning from America, Dutch
East Indies and other placcs.
According to dispatch fron Wachington no discussion
between Amcrican and Japanose reprosentatives was held ycsterday
but Sect. of State Hull yosterday met the representatives of
Australia, Britain, Dutch East Indics and Chungking and held a
five nation parley. It is believcd that Sect. of Statc Hull
reported the development of the Japanese-American negotiation.
In regard to the Japanese-American negotiation, Secretary of
State Hull, in ar interviow with press reportcrs, statod as follows:
"No arrangement has yet bocn made for tho next discussion but some-
thing to roport may be received lator. Outside of tho fact that
tho moctings have boen limited to discussions, I have nothing to
say in particular."
Tho Tokyo Nichi-Nichi, Miyako Shimbun, and Hochi Shimbun
of today published on the middle of their front pago a largo pic-
ture of our impcrial fleet. That of the Tokyo Nichi-Nichi is a
submarino with a caption "Will Absolutcly Dofond the Pacific" and
-1-

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.98)
a stat'ement that the time has come to display the spirit of our
navy. That of the Miyako Shimbun is a picture of a gun on
board ship that had just been fired and that of Hochi Shimbun
is a picture of our submarine cutting through the waves of the
Pacific, indicating the strong soa dofense.
Having completod soveral test flights, the first air
sorvice between Palao and Timor was inaugurated today.
Nows of the Russo-Gorman war.
Gorman troops roportodly captured Kalinin and advanced
to a point 50 kilometors away from Moscow.
Russian troops reported retreating from Mozliaisk and
Tula.
News of thc war situation in North Africa:
British offensive reportedly weakening. On tho 23rd,
sho lost over 260 tanks and over 200 armored cars.
The following is the clcctrical transcription of tho
talk given by Premicr Tojo at Hibiya Civic Auditorium: My follow
countrymen, it is indcod a great ploasurc to have this opportun-
ity to talk to all my fellow countrymen as prosident of the
National Support Socicty (auxiliary to Ammy?). As you all know
how acute tho situation is today, I belicve it is necdless to
montion it. In rogard to tho attitude of thc government against
this situation, I definitely mado it clear at thc cmergency
scssion of tho Dict that the gov rnment is dctormined to carry
out her established policies, On the other hand, I keenly folt
tho incroasing dotermination of the pcoplo to respond to this
through tho cmergoncy sossion of the Diet. Tho prosent cmergency
is certainly unprccedented in tho brilliant 26o0 years history of
our country, and it cortainly is the groat mission assigned to us
today to ovorcomo this crisis. To do this, it is an urgent
neccssity to establish a strong national dcfensc footing that
consolidates the wholc strength of tho nation and to ostablish a
strong policy that is backed by national solidarity. It is
needless to statc that the formation of tho National Support
Society in October of last yenr was brought about by such sinccrc
demand. In view of the incrcasing acutoness of tho situetion, it
can bo said that it is a matter of great concorn affecting tho
fate of our country. In this sonse, thc National Support Socicty
must undertako a nation-wido movcment of coopcration. Needlcss
to montion, tho govornment has alrcady adopted various nocessary
moasurcs, such as thoso pcrtaining to tho promotion of incroased
production powor and to tho stabilization of national living
condition, which aro indisponsablo in a strong national defense
footing. However, no mattor how assiduous the offorts of the
govornment may be absolutely no good rosults can be expected if
tho nation does not show any sincority to coopcrato in end comply
with tho government's policies. As a rosult, the function of the
National Support Socicty is to investigate and report the nation's
support to the government and, at tho saic time, to rolay on the
-2-

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.97)
aims of the government clearly and quickly to tho nation and thus
assist in the promotion of a cooperativo and patriotic spirit be-
twoen tho government and the peoplc. As I havo stated froquontly,
tho National Support Socicty has enebled the government to obtain
this strong cooperation. I believe that thoro is no other course
for tho peoplo to takc than to perform thcir national servico
within their rospoctive occupation and march straightforwardly
toward tho manifostation of their patriotism. In othor words,
every day of our lifo is a battlo. Hencc, wo should not hesitato
(?), but move forward (?). (Rocord indistinct). Howover, in view
of thc intcrnal and oxternal situation, it is an inevitablc fact
that wc will confront various hardships in our daily life. This,
I Bolieve, will be the samo in material and other aspects. Wo
must bo fully prepared with a resolution sufficient to cnduro
thcso hardships. On tho othor hand, wo should wipo away such
ovil practiccs as "dark transactions", stocking up on things and
solling for cxorbitcnt profits, which only incrcnses thc hardships
of tho masses by taking away from the markot what should have been
plentiful. All tho pooplo aro comrades-in-arms. Honce, acts of
indolenco and unwillingness to do that which should be dono and
causing hardships to his follow conrades are intolcrablc. In
other words, cach cnd ovory one should have this spirit to bear
overy hardship and sacrifice. Only through this can an iron
like solidarity bo had. To do this, we must fundamentally rccon-
sidor our modo of living and do away with thc wasto existing in
our daily lifo. At tho same timc, it is nccessary for us to
amend what should be amended and strengthen what should be
strongthonod and thus ostablish our footing of sclf-sufficiency.
In the present cncrgoncy, tho uttering of dissatisfaction cannot
bo allowed. Wo should support (?) tho policios and plan of tho
government, and if there is anything lacking,............
(Indistinct). Hence, nothing is of groater necossity than this
spirit of mutual assistance and ancouragomont, for this is the
time whon tho nution should unitc as one, place their confidence
in tho goverrmont as well as cach individual with the spirit of
comredes-in-arms and cstablich a national defonso footing that
cen copo with the devclopoments of the prosent situation. Even
at this time whilo I cn spcaking, thc soldicrs in China aro
coopcrating with cach other on land, on son and in tho nir and
are ovorcoming various obstnclcs and hardships for the cstablish-
mont of pcaco in East Asia. (Record Indistinct). I sinccrcly
hopo thet the nation will support thc government with a grecter
spirit and carry out thcir serviccs to thcir country as a ball of
fire and thus assist in tho overcoming of thc prosent crisis (?).
I fimly belicvo that......
.....can bo achiovod if the
nation will march whoad with this iron-liko solidarity and .....
...spirit of comrades-in-arms.
Japanosc Music
Japaneso National Anthon.
并##
-3-

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZI Program
Date 11/29/41
Frequency 9535 Kilocycles
News:
With the discussion of the 26th, the Japanese-American
negotiation is being regarded as having entered a new stage.
The success of this negotiation depends on whether future dis-
cussions will be based on the realities, for the realities of
East Asia have progressed to such an extent that merica's
one-sided view cannot be permitted. Hence, so lon as these
realities are not correctly construed, the problers cannot be
expected to be solved. Our country's sentiment is watching
with a firn determination the attitude of America, who is
stubbornly maintaining her one-sided attitude. In looking over
the newspapers of the 29th, we find all of them with news per-
taining to the Japanese-merican negotiation on the front page.
The Tokyo Asahi, for example, criticized America's diplomacy
with an item, entitled: "No hope for development of negotiation,
if America fai ls to abandon her principles", and stated, "Amer-
ica's.......peaceful view, which ignores the international
custon, violates the realities of Last Asia and is based on a
wholly selfish principle, is merely a camouflage and can only
be interpreted as.........". Furthermore, besides carrying
a New York dispatch stating that America,  erhaps, is
strategically prolonging the negotiation to make active her
economic blockade, she has an cditorial commnenting on the
general theory problem. The Yomuri Shimbun, too, has an item
definitely making clear our country's attitude in this manner.
"If America should violate our three principles, wc absolutely
will not permit it". On the ther, the Tokyo Nichi-Nichi car-
ried an editorial cntitled "Japan's Proper Courso", and stated,
"The circumstances au rrounding the nogotiation c learly in-
dicate the key for the readjustment of the Japanese-Anerican
relations is in the hands of America but should imerica be
overconfident with her rtional strength and darc to push
through her selfish claim and view, Japan wi ll have to drop
the negotiation with America held responsiblc for it m d immedi
ately follw & courso of nocessity to her".
According to a dispatch from ashinton, the presi-
dent'sinterview with newspaper reporters at the White House on
the 28th was held from 11 a m. amidst an atmosphere of tension.
However, Pres.Roosevelt practically refrained from touching
upon the Japanese-American problens and in ruply to the
question "Has the nogotiation reached an ond?", he s tated,
"I do not think so". After this intervicw with press re-
porters, President Rooscvelt culled together Secrctary of
-1-

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.98)
Station JZI Progran
Datc 11/29/41
War,Stimpson, Secrotary of Navy, Knox,and other military and
naval leadors at tho Thite House at nnon and held an important
conferenco with Secretary of Stato Hull present, too. The
matters discussed were not announced. After the conclusion
of this conference, Prosident Roosovelt le ft for his winter
resort in Varm Springs. Political circles in Washington
believe that the Presixent will not be away very long in
view of the oxistence of important & bor probleis and that he
might have a plan to mect Ambassador Nomura md Euvoy Kurusu
upon his return.
News of the achievements of the raids of the military
air forcc in Yunnan und other parts of South China. Also,
news of Jep anese military plancs based in French Indo-China
raiding Kumming.
In Commeioration of the first anniversary of the sign-
ing of the Sino-Japanese busic agreemont tomorrow, the Japanese
governaent has d ecided to transfer the management of Chinuse
warships and airficlds, which had been under tle control of
Japencse troops. The transfer of managorient will take place
tonorrow at Nanking.
News of the plans to cclebrate the first unniversary
of the signing of the Sino-Japenese basic agrcenent tomorrow
in Tokyo, Nanking andPeking. On the ove of this anniversary,
Ambassador........of Hanchoukuo made the following remark:
"Japan, Manchoukuo and China have built up thoir intornational
set-up in East Asin through mutunl collabor tion. Today, the
schene of tho third povers to obstruct the creation of the
East Asia Mutual Prospurity sphere has becone very blunt. At
such a tine, we should uproot the root of this ovil through
our close cooperation."  Furthernore, the autonomous govern-
mont of Mongolic, also, madc public her official statement
in regard to the first anniversary of the Sino-Jupanese basic
agreement, as follows, "It is the one and only means to bring
about lasting happiness to the rcces of Asiu for the races of
East Asic to unite as one ano establish the East Asia lutual
prosperity spherc."
The East Asia Econornic Problems Discussion socicty
wi ll hold its third discussion for three days stating from
Decomber 4th at the Tokyo Imperial Hotel with representa-
tives from China, Manchoukuo and Hongolia as well as from
the Japanese Governrient.
-2-

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.97)
Station JZI Program
Datc 11/29/41
Something about tho covernment preparing to carry out
some sort of industrial move in compli:nce witlh c. recently
enacted law pertcining to tho full utilization of industrial
facilities.
News of the observance of the fifth annivers ry of
the anti-Commintern Pact by tho Japan-Gern ny-It Iy Friend-
ship today with a lecture meeting at thc Educaticn 1 Hall
in Kanda.
News of the c apture of over 40 agents of Chungking
in Shanghei.
News or the Russo-Germn Var: News pertaining to
pincer movoment of the Gernen troops from North  nd South
on Moscow. German troops advncing from North now only 20
kilometers fron Moscow. Germen troops advncing from south
have broken through the Russien defense betveen Kaluga and
Tulc.
News of the loss of 113 planes by lussia on the 26th.
Tota1 lossof nussia from the 16 to 21st is 163 planes -
Germany lost only 1l planes for the same puriod.
According to a dispatch ruccived in Rome from Ankara,
a Russian warship is requesting the Turkish Government for a
permit to pass through the Bosporus. It is bclieved Turkey
who is maintrining strict noutrrl ity, will not grant this
permission.
Nows of thc wer situation in North Africa: Fierce
fighting coing on at Tobruk. A dctachment of Gornan Troops
about to cross the border o. Egypt. It: lian navy reportodly
sunk thrce British subrarines in the licditurranean Sea.
Something about nowspapers of Dutch East Indics urging
the Govcrnment to t nke action against the stationing of British
and anericen Warships in Dutch East Indics.
News of relations betvcen Finland and Americe bocoming
acuto due to Finland's rejection of America's proposal to
torminate her war with Russia ind Finland's participetion
in the anti-Commintorn pact.
News of Gcrman nd Italy's promisc to cstablish an
independont Arabian stato.
-3-

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.95)
Station JZI Program
Date 11/29/41
Comient on Current Events:
The eyes of the world ere presently focused on the
developments of the Japanese-American negotiation, vhich is
being carried on at tht hite House in Washington. The
Japancsc American nugotiation, which was resuicd Fron thc 21st
through Envoy Kurusu's flight across the Pacific, ns under-
gone several fornal nd informal di cussions unilut the sincere
efforts of both sides. At the sm c timc aicric. h ld con-
forences with reprusent tives of Brit.in, Australi., utch
East Indies nd Chungking ndalso conferences of n val and
milit ry leadors. Honce,  tunse tmosphere surrounding the
Japanose-American nogoti tion eppe re to be prevailing in
Washin ton. During the fourth discussion on the 26th, a
note was hended to our represent tive by Secretury of Stnte
Hull. As a rosult, it appu rs as if the nogotiation hrs
fin lly entered its last stage. No m.tter wht the situ..tion
may have boen, our country h.s oxpressed ll of her just nd
proper claims conducive to vorld peace tirough the p: st dis-
cusuions end has beon secr tly hoping for America's reconsider-
ation in regard to world peace und reinfercement (?) of her
knowlcdge in regurd to the rorl itics of the Far East. Conse-
quently, the success of the negotiation depends solely upon
Amoricu's attitude. in this sense, gret attuntion is being
cast toward thc note recently h nded to our represont. tive.
In reviewing the pact, it v's in april theat the negotiation
was b egun and on august 28th nd Premier Konoye's messtage
was hen ded to President Roosevelt. Ever since, ab sstdor
Nomure has beon striving his utmost to liquid: to Premior
Konoye's responsibility. Then, with Envoy Kurusu's flight to
Amorice, the necotietion was begun all over atin and hs
ocen carricd on until today. Since considera le nuaber of
days has alrondy passed, the viewe of both acrica and Jupan
must have all been expressed. As to what Japan's claim is,
it must be regerdcd that Americ." iust have fully asccrt..ined
it. Now, let us consider whet the Americen newspip crs : ro
commenting in regard to the note which was recontly hinded
to cur reprusentatives. The mornings papere of the 27th all
pleyed it up us hoadline nevs cnd sens. tion.lly reported
thet the Japanese-Americ.in negoti: tion hcs re cched its final
stage cnd that the time has come to when it will be definitely
decided as to vhether it will be war or pecce butwoen Jupen
and Amorice. They all roported Americe 's notc us though it
were a final ultim tum. of coursc, ve do not know vhrt the
naturc of the note h nded to our representatives is. As 
result we c.nnot guoss vhcthcr the note is intonded to be
a finel ultimatum or net. However, in view cf the fact th.t
-4-

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.95)
Stction JZI Program
Datc 11/29/41
the attitude of Americt. in this negoti tion hus harbored (?)
from the beginning to the end sone sort of scheno aining to
prolong the negotiation andproviding Amorict with thc time to
prep re for war in the Pacific, it con be rocdily secn tht
we cannot remain optimistic. Now let us sce the movements
of the nations concerncd in connection with this J pin ese-
Americen negotiation, which has recched its final utage. As
wo have montioned previously during the nows hour soparate
conferences betwoen Anericn Ic cders nd reprcsent: tives of
Britain, Australia, Dutch East Indice ind Chungking vere held
at the sme time. By this fact, it cenx construed th t & very
delicate si tuntion exict. Tht is, it is of course difficult
for these nations, : hose interests diffcr, to t ke conerctc
action in various respects in spite of the fuct thet they
have forned the ABCD anti-Jip nese encirclement. Above 11
it has bcen reported th.t Britain, who hes large intcrests
and rights in the Fir East, is now hoping for the potceful
settlement of the Japancsc-mericen negoti:tion in viev of
the fect thet it weuld be impossible to prctect tiese intcrests
and rights of hers in the cvent of  w r. On the other hend,
Chungking, fully eware of the fact th t Jopan vould never
change her policy of accomplishing the Chin. Incident vhether
the Jep ncse- mericn negoti tion is successfully concluded
or not, appears to be cre: tly perturbcd with the Japrnese-
Americen ncgotiction recching its crisis (?). Agi n, acccrd-
ing to forcign dispatches, Scviot Russit, who is being de-
cisively beaten in her wer vith Serme ny, is heping fer the
readjustment of the rel tions betveen Jupm nd meric.
It cin bc said thet Chungking, whe is relying upen moric:
nd Britain nd thus is bearly m int ining horself, is
absolutcly at a loss as to whi't to do. Then, on the 27th,
the fifth forme1 discussion betveen Envoys Kurusu ind Nomure,
and President Roosevelt nd Scc. cf Statc Hull. This fact
apper rs to have endorsed tho report of the New York Times th t
"This probaoly means (?) the affording of in pportunity
to discuss America's note in this negotir tion tnd decs net mean
the termination of the negotit tion. It lse significs th t
the noxt dovelopmoent deponds upen future cenditions". On the
other hand our attitude is that the Jpancsc-Americen nege-
tittion from now on vill not require tec much tine .nd, as
montioned by Foreign Minister Tece, necdless prlong: tion can
not be lluwed in vicv of the Fer Eastcrn Situction, mich
has beconc vcry acutc t.nd........
Tho ain of our country's diplon.cy hes clready boen
clerified to the world by Promior Tejo's message given : t tho
time of the recunt session of the Dict. That is, it is the
-5-

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.94)
Station JZI Program
Datc 11/29/41
tormination of all hostilo acts, thc restor: tien of normal
cconomic relaticns and the provention of war from spruading
into Ecst Asic, and it is needlesu to nuntion th.t these threc
great principlcs have been the basic cl: im of Jip .n in the
Japaneso-Imerican negotiation. To accomplish this complotely
is cur country's unremitting dctermiuatien, und it d es net
allcw cny room for conciliction nor reciprocl f etors (?).
Above li, temporery adjustment cannot be thought of, What
I would liko to ropot is the t what our country is dosiring
to fundementally do awey vith the scourge of the P: cific --
that is, she is heping fer the k sting peace of the Pacific.
By this alone can pecace nd prosperity be breught to the raccs
of Asia, besidcs tie prespects of e new er.. By locking at
the comments mede by our nowspopers of the 2oth, it cane
seen how great the conccrn of cur peeple in regurd to this
is. As I have just mentioned in tie news, ll are stating
that no optimisn cun be h d in the Jap nosu-inoric.n nogotintin
and with such captions, they are playine it up on t. I rce sc lo
and claiming that Amoric., s usu 1, is stubbernly reint ining
her ene sided view. Thus, they re criticizing imepice 's
stubborn attitude. In clasing, the Tokye As hi Shinbun, vhich
carried an cditerial ontitled "The L.st.. of the dopanesc-
Americtn Nogotiction", us d the fellewing worde to cenclude her
editorinl: "If Americe.'s view ie one tht rucegnizes J pan's
cl.im, the roletions botueen Jopon nd merican c n quiddy
be adjusted : nd the wavee of the P cifie wculd rom in as calm
as ite nimc indic tes. I this nct so end it unfertun.tay
should be one that thre tens cur cxistenee er h ris our
dignity as a e ro. t i ticn, then we ure prop red te eppese it
to the cnd with a fim. a ttitude. We will w. teh this import nt
monent with a prepurution cepeble ef ceping wi th .ny situ tion".
Thus did it express the fim. determin tion of the ni tion, which
is w tehing the developmonte of the Jap: nese-.aneric. n
nogcti:tion.
Progrem of the coming veck.
Japancse Natienel nthon.
-6-

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.93)
Station JZI Progran
Datc 11/30/41
Frequcncy 9535 Kilocycles
NGWS:
Nows reporting that tcday is the first anniversary
of the Sino-Japanese Basic Agrcenent nd thc joint Jupan-
Manchoukuo-Chine Delcerution. St toncnts issucdby Premier
Tojo, Wang Ching-wei end ether lerders. St. teaxnt of
Prenier Tojo was: "The joint Japan-n choukuc-Chinn decla-
ration made clenr the gre t principle to cnble c ch nnd
overy race or naticn to display its specinl qu.litics und
contributc towerd the mutuel presperity und cxistence of
the races of East sie cnd ains for the creaticn of  new
order based on rightecusness. However, vhen the present
situation is considcred, ve find . nuiber of hcstile nntions
still carrying on their......activities. In other werde, they
are attoapting to s tisfy their personel interest cnd av rice
at the expenso of the 1,000, 000,000 people of East asi.. Fer
the...........and pride ef huranity, ve must oppose (?) it."
The st tement of Wang Ching-wei was: "The Sine-Jepancse b usic
agrooment has certainly cpencd up c nev course in the rul tichs
between Japm and Chin.. Through this ccreement, the Jpnese
covernment has agreed te vipe avay the cxtr -territeriality
ind concossions oxisting in China. This cortainly is the
indispensable requirenent for tle cre tion of a odern nation,
which Chine has becn leng heping to ceenplish, nd the Keneyo
statement has. carried this out. In  ther w rds, the spirit
of this agreenent cins for the c reution of : mutui prosperity
and existonce feoting b: sed on rightocusness, vhich, in turn,
is e ascd on c f r-re: ching idoal. since the conclucion ef the
agreenent, a yoar hae il reedy p.ssed. Chin. has cst blished
the foundetion of perce in v rious urecs und has been sue-
cossively recognizod by Gernany  nd It ly in July ef this ye..r.
Chin., too, hos joined the nti-corninturn poct. Due to this,
the foundation of righteousness nd peaee has not only been
cstablished in Eaat ei., but the world cs vell." The st:te-
nent of Premier.......(che) of H nehoukuc v.s: "Tho joint
Jrp :n-Men choukuo-Chin. docl:r: tien was coneluded under the
far-reaching ide.l of ost blishing lasting pe cc in Ect ssic
and thus contributine toverd vorld pe ce. Yet, the third
pewors, whe are displensed t the victerics ef tise xis pewere,
have recently been intcnsifying their cctivities, thue cousing
the situation in East nsis to becune more nd  re ucute. If
this source of trouble is not wiped avy tody, the pecce and
prosperity of East hsie cen never be hoped fer." The st tenent
of Gener 1 Hato was: "The Axis powers, which are presuntly
striving for the crc.tion of a new order, : re steadily marehing
on the road to success. In centrant t. this, the doniocrctic
-1-

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.94)
Station JZI Program
Datc 11/30/41
nations are still continuing thcir desper.te cffert to
mintain the old order. Accompanying this, the transition
of the situation in Enst Asit. is such that there is no peace
and tranquility. On welcoming this first mivers ry cf the
signing of the agreerient midst such  situatien, I would
like to congretulate the great progress mdo by Jpon, China
and Manchoukuo, who conprise the pivot of Enst , nd hope
for the cstablishment ct the new order  nd lastinr pence in
East Asic through the cverecming of the .cute sitit tion con-
fronting East Asi:. by the exccution of the ino-J p nesc bosic
agreement n d the joint Jupan-Men choukuo-Chine docler tion."
Nows of the funetiens hcld throughout Jepin, lin choukuo,
ind Chine in observenee of the first nniversery or the Sino-
Jepanese b.sic cgroument nd the joint Japan-Manchoukuo-China
declaration. t funtion held at Hibiye Civic uditorium, it
was reselved to overthrew the eppression of the hestile neticns
and to inmcdi.tely cetablisl. the Eust Asia mutu.l proeperity
sphere cnd thus crente the foundation for a new vorld order.
The resolution further rend: "Japn, Lianchoukue, nd China
are striving day nd night for the accorplishricnt of the grent
idenl ef bringing about I asting pecce in Eaet asi. based on
righteousness (?). Hovever, Brit: in nd neric., foring the
ABCD encirclemont, are a ttempting to lhumper the ux cution of
our grent deal end the cccompliulment of our missien to
reconstruct sia. This cortainly is n outrageous md impudent
act. Today, we have re chcd the linits of our p ticnee  nd
prudence, und the oenenics ef hunuenity which tre obstructing
the holy work of cust blishing world pet ce nd extormi. ting
communisien, must be overthrewn end destreyed."
Including the informal discussicns, cicht discussions
h ve elready been held in t he J.ptnesc-meric n negeti. tion,
upen which the peace of the Pcific dopends. Due to the
insincority of moric., it is still in  glecry stage. Th t
is, in spite of our prectic:1 propos. 1 cf s uttlement b scd on
righteousness, the Pacific problems ure still in  critical
stite duc to meric.'s......... ef hor status que theory. t
the s me time, Ancrica is attempting to pl: cc the responsibility
of the Pacific si tu tion whclly upon our country, n: this
scheno is bcing very actively carried cut. Fer cximple, .s-
suming a pelicy of......ci nst our proposl, she is ccrrying
on unnecessary conferences vith reprosent tives of Britein,
Netherlands, nd Chungking nd, t the the sume time, is
holding conferunces of military end n val leaders to evise
-2-

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.97)
Station JZI Progran
Date 11/30/41
measures to cope with the sitution of the future. That cur
effort for the preservation of peace us well as our clcim for
the pretection of our rights and existonce wd ll be maintcined
to the 1 st is needless to mention. Should meric. continue
with her hostile attitude agtinst Japan and needlossly prolong
the negotiation, it should be mentioned that there wiil be a
limit to our noble effort. In such n event, it is needless
to nention America will be fully responsible.
According to  dispatch from Me drid, the........, c
newspaper of Madrid, comnenting on the Japanesc-mericen pro-
blem on its issuc of the 29th, st tel, as follows: "If
america had her own plan (?) insteed of joining with Russia and
China, the Jip inese-nericun negotiation would not be so
difficult, but would have been roadily settled." This is
worthy of note as on indicction or the reaction or the third
powers against merica's policy.
According to a dispatch fron Hanoi, Envoy Yoshizawa
called en Governor-General DeCoux on the 28th and cenferred
wi th him for abcut an hour and a half. This is the first
formal discussion held between the two.
according to a dispatch from Saigon, Minister Uchiyama,
head of Envoy Yoshizawa's brench office in Saigon, left Suigon
on the 29th ror Pnom-Penh and cal led on the tcting head ef
Cambolia.
News of Russc-German wer.
Dispatch fren Kuibyshev adnitting the danger cen-
fronting Mescow.
News of the wr in North Afric..
Dispatch fron Rone disclaiming the vietories of the
British troops and reporting trenondous British losses.
Italicn news clciming the cupture of 1,Ooo British
troops, including Genertl J mos ....
News of ussien w rship Stalin, 9,O00 tons, sunk
in the Black Sea.
According to a dispatch from New York, Fronce has
transferped French nir bases in afric: cver to Germ.ny. That
-3-

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.97)
Station JZI Program
Datc 11/30/41
is, she has t ransforred three bascs in Tunisia and one in
Morocco md Germnan officers and submarines reportodly are
heading toward these bases.
Comment on current events:
Topic "The first anniversary of Sino-Jap noso Basic
Agreonent and the joint Japan-Manchoukuc-Chint. Deelaration!"
A year has already passed since the signing of the Sino-
Japanese basic agreenent nd the announcement of the joint
Japn -Mnchoukuo-Chin: declrt.tion, which accelerated the
establishnent of the now crder in East sia. Todey is its
first unniversery. Needless to say, the underlying spirit
of the Sino-Japanose basic agrecment is b asud on the three
grest principles of neighborly friendship, mutusl defense
agcinst communism and cconoric collabor tion cnd its signi-
ficance is that it has........the policy of scttlcment of
the incident. During this one year, the Chinesc centr:.1
government has fulfilled her responsibility and making the
nost of her underlying spirit, she h:s created her unshakable
founustien cs a wing of mutual prosperity sphere. Thet is
in regard to her do mestic condition, she, responling te our
policy of pronoting her growth, hes made  renarkable pregress
in varicus fields of econony, culture, nd ........ In re-
gard to her rek tions vá th foreign countries, she has been
officially recognized by Germany, Ital y, Runania, Spain,
Czochoslovakia, and other nations cnd joining the anti-
commintern pact on the 24th, she las come to hold a position
of intornational importance, thus making a grc t stride for-
ward as an influcntial party of the new world order creators.
Tod. y, on welconing the first anmiverstry of the Sino-
Japanesc basic agreement, I w uld like to talk of the pro-
gress made by the Chinese central government. (Then, the
cormentator started to explcin the gradual manner by which
the relk tions between Japan and China was nde closer, sterting
wi th Wang Ching-wei's visit te Japan and his subsequent
actions vhilo in Jepun, whichh resultou in the 300,000,000
yen loan and the return of all Chinese csteblishmonts, which
had been temporarily managed by Japan. He, then, mentioned
the appointment ef Kunataro Henda as Japan's umbasstdor to
China and the appointnent of General Hato cs high connand
of the Japanese forees in Chine. He, then, mentioned the
stages ofp rogress undergone by the Chinese centr.l govern-
ment. In this connection, the nilitary strength of the
-4-

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.97)
Station JZI Program
Date 11/30/41
Chinese contral governnent was mentioned, as well as how
theso troops are assisting the Japanese troops in their fight
against Chungking. Then, the cerinentator mentioned the
economic progress mado by the Chinese gevernment. In closing,
Wang Ching-wai statenent to the effect tht Chins has de-
cided to share Japan's lot was mentioned as in inlic tion of
the Chinose governmont's lotermination to cooper: t. with Japan
in the creation of a new order in East sis.
Japanese Music.
Japunese National nthem.
-5-

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.89)
VER
Federal Bureau of Juvestigation
SHL
Anited States Department of Justire
STATE
ashington, D.U.
HROEIVED
January 24, 1942
P+
JAN 28 1942
PERSONAL AND OL
folf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
E
My dear Mr. Berle:
For your information and as of possible interest
C0
there are attached hereto translated transcripts of radio
94.76/74
894.76
broadcasts from Tokyo, Japan for the days December 20 to
December 25, 1941.
Sincerely yours,
. E.dtorovren
Enclosures
BY SFECIAL I. ESSENGER
FEB 4-1942
FILHD
STFAIR
LFF
N OF STATE
JAN 26 1942
DECLASSIFIED
Justice Depament Quidelnc, 1271984
0
NARS, Date 5.16.1984
CO
By121G
S
C

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.99)
station JZI Program
December 20, 1941
Frequency 9535 Kilocycles
Conquest of Hongkong is now simply a question of tine. Our
Imperial troops, braving fierce enemy fire, broke through the entire
front of the enemy. Landing on Hongkong Island is continuing, in
the face of enemy fire, to advance. The tactics are expanding.
The Japanese had practically cleaned out the scattered enemy from
the captured positions by the morning of the 18th /evidently on
the Kowloon side/. Now the enemy are being attacked from the
Kowloon peninsula, and are tied up in the southwest. They are con-
tinually being driven back, and are being fired on severely.
All kinds of military preparations in Hongkong have been des-
troyed. Gasoline tanks, militery factories, etc., are being bomb-
ed continually.
The enemy, with the mainland areas conquered, and important
positions captured, has not been given time to draw breath. Con-
tinuous fire cver entire front. Perfect comnunications w th main-
land areas. Complete control of the air. Complete occupation of
Hongkong a matter of time.
Our army, engaged in the attack on Hongkong, sank an English
cruiser, an Army plane, on the Dth at one o'clock, on the southern
part of Hongkong Island in "Firipi" bay, discovered an enemy cruiser.
Braving fierce eneny fire, attacked.
According to a London Despatch, Hongkong, which cuards the
British Empire in the Far East, is in extrene danger.
Army bombing of the Philippines. Bonbed licholas fiela on
the 19th, etc. 16 planes destroyed. Only one Japanese plane lost.
Buenos ires, Domei: American War Departnent announcement
about the air war in the Philippines. Japanese air attack extrene-
ly severe.
Malaya Peninsula: According to a Berlin despatch, have passed
Penang Island and gone south.
Japanese troops occupying Guan discovered large American bomb-
ers. Showed great preparations United States made for war against
Japan.
Something about the emperor, and the 2602 aniversary of the
founding of the empire. loo miilion subjects, etc.
In Nanking, ambassador Honda, and Nanking regine. Nanking will
support Japan in the cxecution of the China Incident, until the
last.
Meeting of some patriotic organization in Bank of Japan bldg.
Cabinet Hinisters there including Navy Minister Ira da, Finance
Minister Kaya.
-1-

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.97)
"lanchoukuo" supports greater East Asia war in statement from
Hsinking.
America and England have been over-powered by the brilliant
tactics of our troops, very heavy losses, much heavyer than those
of the Japanese.
America's naval strength reduced to that of third class power
through Hawaiian battle.
A seven thousand ton British cruiser sunk, according to
Alexandria report.
Germans inflicted heavy damage on conmercial shipping at ..
The Italians report they have torpedoed a British cruiser off
Ialta.
Hongkong will soon fall to Japanese.
/Note: Some kind of interference on this cylinder. Whistling
over about half of it./
Hongkong was center of aid to China, and has had defenses built
up as center of British Far Eastern System. Important economically
and strategically. With its capture, the American and British
camp will lose an important link in their defense chain, etc.
i#
-2-

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZI·Program
December 21, 1941
Frequency 9535 Kilocycles
Thailand cooperating well with Japanese troops and aiding in
repulsing British encroachments. Alliance with Thailand established
on the llth.
Provisions of formal treaty of alliance with Thailand:
(1) Japan and Thailand make clear their mutual final in-
dependence.
(2) If either party becomes involved in hostilities with
a third power, the other perty will give all aid,
politically, militarily and econcmically.
With regard to the aid in Paragraph 2, the responsible
officials of Thailand and Japan will cooperate.
(4) In case of Thailand and Japan making war together,
they will not nake seperate peace.
Comes into effect on the 2lst, to last ten years.
Words of Foreign Minister Togo in regard to Thailand-Japan
treaty of alliance: Japan and Thailand are both countries of
oriental races and tradition and have had a long period of friend-
ship and intercourse. It was believed that if this friendship
and intercourse vwere developed it would be mutually edvantageous.
Further, Japan drew up the arrangenent whereby Thailand peacefully
adjusted her borders /i.e. with French Indo-China/. Thailand was
suffering through the econonic and political pre ssure of England.
Thailand came to cooperate with Japan in the realization of the
objectives of. the new order in East Asia. Thailand completely
approved at the stationing of Japanese troops in Thailand. It is
a cause for joy that Thailand has thus formally indicated her in-
tention of pursuing the war for the establishment of the new order
in east asia, and in the world, in cooperation with Japan, to the
final victory.
Prime Ilinister Tojo and Foreign Minister Togo severally gave
congratulatory addresses over the conclusion of this formal al-
liance.
War News: Our troops completely oocupied Penang Island. An-
nouncement by army headquarters, 20th, 5:50 o'clock in the after-
noon. Occupied Penang end are advancing southwards. Penang se-
cond only to Singapae, ctc....
Philippines; Completed landing on Ifindanao Island in the 
face of enemy. Army and navy headquarters, announcement, 20th,
5:30 in the afternoon.
American Army Headquarters admits the landing of Japanese
troops and reports a severe battle.
-1-

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.99)
Our troops, which had landed on north and south Luzon are
steadily expanding operations. With our troops landed on the two
central islands of the Philippines, our war for the conquest of
the Philippines is well on its way. /Note: at this point there
was terrific interference. Very difficult to get anything/.
Bombing or Manila. Heavy losses admitted to be suffered by
the enemy.
Navy headquerters announcement on the 19th: Bombing of Hong-
kong. Sunk 3 enemy gunboats in Shinshi(?) bay, 2nd harbor of
Hongko:g. Also one tanker or transport,
Navy announces absolute control of water off Hon kong and the
annihilation of enemy vessels.
Destroyed in naval warfare around Hongkong. 3 destroyers,
4 gunboats, 2 tankers 8 of some other kind of vessel.
/other ships destroyed. Couldn't get it because of inter-
ference/.
Have destroyed the greater part of American and British fleets
in the Orient. Sunk 9 submarines since the opening of hostilities.
Imperial Navy, since the beginning of the war until the 21st
sunk 9 enemy submarines.
Japanese troops continuing their fierce drive in Melaya. The
English positions here were a regular Maginot line.
/Terrific interference/.
it i it #
-2-

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZI Program
December 22, 1941
Frequency 9535 Kilocycles
News of the Philippine area: Japanese troops landed in new
areas in the Philippines and are advancing.
Army headquarters Dec. 22, announced at 3 in the afternoon
that large Japanese units had anded in the southern part of Luzon
and are advancing. The landing is continuing.
The Japanese air force is bombing fiercely everywhere in the
Philippines. Nicholas field, some naval base, etc., were borbed.
Japanese airforce is continually bambing military arts around
Manila and destroying them.
Something about the Japanese air force being absolutely masters
in the Philippine area, and also abcut a statelent the head of
some Japanese firm made to the Philippine merican authorities.
Malay Peninsula area: English are being driven back by the
glorious Japanese. Japanese sank a British war vessel off Singa-
pore. British cruiser was sunk by air attack. States that the
British have requested that what is left of American fleet, and
airforce be sent to the defense of Singapore.
Hongkong attack battle: Japanese control coast around Hong-
kong Island. Army and Navy units cooperating.
Attack on Hawaii: In two weeks, the Japanese have virtually
destroyed the encircling strength of the ABCD powers. America's
losses in the Hawaiian battle were so scvere that its air and sea
power is now fifth rate. That the Japanese were able to make such
a long distance attack on Hawaii was due to Japanese efficiency
and bravery.
Despatch via Shanghai from Bangkok about unrest in India.
Air attack on an airdrome in Shansi.
Comments of various Japanese newspapers on the "alliance" of
Thailand and Japan and Thailand's participation in the war for
the new greater East Asia.
"Thailand was forced by economic pressure of England end Aneri-
ca into cooperation, but now this is completely severed," ctc.,
etc.
Despatch from Germany. Chancellor Hitler takes personal
command, etc.
Meeting in Hibiye public hall celebrating the cenenting of
Axis ties. Foreign ilinister Togo and representatives of Axis
were there; 4,000 people.
Some kind of patriotic me. ting that ended at Yasukuni Jinja.
-1-

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.99)
Meeting of the Nippon-Burma society to strengthen cultural
and conmercial ties. Something about the attitude of Burma in
the wer, etc...
Resume of the war for the last two weeks: Report of the Navy
headquarters regarding the Hawaiian war.
Has become clear thet the enemy Pacific fleet, as well as the
enemy air power in the Hawaiian area, was annihilated.
American losses in the Hawaiian battle, according to the navy
headquarters report:
Destroyed ......... 5 battleships
2 cruisers
1 tanker
Heavily damaged....
4 battleships
6 cruisers
2 destroyers
Planes destroyed... 444
American Pacific fleet was annihilated with the beginning of
the war.
The fact that the conmand of the U.S. navy has been changed
shows the heaviness of the losses.
Hongkong battle: Landed and thrust the enemy back and back,
etc.
Malayan Peninsula: Landed and pushed the English farther and
farther back, etc.
Philippines: Landed on both north and south Luzon. Landed
on Mindanao in the south. Air forco is cont inually bombing
Nicholas field, Pratt ficld, U. 3. Arny headquar tcrs, etc.
Tells of the achievements of the Japanese air force during
the past two weeks. Complete control of the air in the Oricnt,
etc.
-2-

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.99)
tion JZI Program
cember 23, 1941
Frequency 9535 Kilocycles
Japanese landing is continuing on Luzon. Dec. 22 big units
had landed. Pincer movement against anila; American troops center-
ed in Manila threatened vith envelopment.
Japanese landings and advances on Mindanao are continuing.
Certainly the capture of Davao is near.
Large army units that landed in Luzon are in tie midst of
severe fighting. Reinforcements have been sent up. Tanks are al-
ready participating. Philipping army is receiving increasing losses.
Malay area. According to a report from Singapore, Japanese
have occupied ......... and ......... provinces.
English army has completely collapsed in the eastern sector.
English are worrying whether they can save Singapore.
Vichy report: Australians are griping over the reverses in
the Ialayan area and want Duff Cooper removed.
Hongkong conquest warfare. Japanese advancing, etc. Hong-
kong will be fundamental, militarily, politically and economically,
in the "New Order", in East Asia.
Naval activities: Sunk 29 eneny war vessels, including
battleships, cruisers, destroyers and subs. 18 battle fleet units,
46 war vessels sunk altogether in 2 weeks.
Japanese losses: 1 heavy battle cruiser slightly daraged,
1 destroyer sunk, 1 cruiser danaged, 1 sunk? 5 ships, 72 planes
lost.
IHacao authorities stated positively that ifacao had not been
occupied by Japanese trcops. American-British reports to this effect
were propaganda and false. liacao authorities were cooperating with
Japanese army authorities.
On the cont inent of China, the Japanese troops began a battle
of annihilation. "Shinshinen"? report. Picked units began an at-
tack on eneny positions on the 20th and have already occupied enemy
positions. Attack continuing. Third war area (Dai san senbu),
attack begun.
Two ships sunk off Pacific ccast of United States by sub-
marine attack. Criticism of nevy by every American newspaper.
Navy department urges increased effort in countering submarne
warfare. 30 men landed on iaui fron one ship, etc.
-1-

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.99)
German sub sank British aircraft carrier with torpedo;
ooo ton ship.
Churchill and Roosevelt conference in Washington. These
conferences show America is not able to aid Britain in south Pacific.
Economic restrictions in the United States on cars, etc.
Show how power of U. S. has been weakened.
All English papers are viewing the Japanese advance on Singa-
pore with alarm. Singapore vital, econorically and strategically.
The Japanese advance shows that the British troops cid not have neces-
sary training.
Someone in the British Admiralty is supposed to have rade a
speech regarding Hongkong. The fate of the British apire bound up
in Hongkong. Asked that help be sent. That no help can be sent
shows helplessness of British Enmpire.
Expansion of Japanese trade necessary with greater East Asia
war. Manchuria, China, Thailand and southward conference.
Expansion of the China incident into the great East Asia
var is due to the machinations of Britain and merica, who attempted
to frustrate Japan. 10 years or 20 years, must fight, fight until
the end. People must unite, etc. etc.
Hecting of the energeney Diet 24-26. Budget und other things
connected with the war alone to be considered.
260,000 prinary school students celebrated someone's birth-
day, prayed for success in the emergency, etc.
Speech about the present war against America and ngland.
Japan, since the beginning of the war, has had successes in Malaya,
Burma and Hongkong against the British, and in the Philippines and
Guam against the United States. Though these were great triumphs,
it is not to be thought that the war will end soon. It will not
do to think that merica is weak. War will be economic as well as
on the surface of the sea.
America's preparations for war against Japan. Dutch Harbor
in the Aleutians, Havaii and Panama are great bases. Other bases
in a line Lidway, Wake, Guam, the Philippines. Ancther line: John-
ston, Palmyra, Baker, Sanoa. Using these bases and Australia, New
Zealand and Singapore, they were preparing to attack Japan, and
building an encircling fortified position.
100,700,000 Japenese vere threatened as to provisions and
weapons. Because of this the Japarese navy attacked.
Our troops are fighting and struggling for the building of
a new order in east Asia and these countries had been interfering.
Conmunications between Anorica and ustralia and Singapore
are cut. Italy end Ger any are cutting the life line betweon the
-2-

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.99)
 country and Australia. Americans are trying sub warfare, es-
cially in the Far East, now that their battle fleet is destroyed.
They have 92 or 93 subs. 40 subs are cruising vessels, suitable
for attack upon us. Can go 10,000 miles. However these 40 must.
be used both in the atlantic and Pacific. Confronted in Atlantic
by German and Italian navies. Will be met by skilled Japanese de-
fense in Pacific.
Subs in the Philippines are in confusion. Americans cant
attack from their own country, very difficult from Aleutians. Two
weeks away and then are met by peerless Japanese navy.
If Singapore collapses, English power and Far East control
will end, and activity by America and England there will be like
beginning operations without legs.
-3-

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.99)
rogram
omber 24, 1941
equency 9535 Kilocycles
Japanese trcops Made fresh gains in Hongkong, the Philippines
and Iialaya,
Davao completely occupied on the 20th, landing in ....... area
on Luzon Island. Conpletely occupied Wake Island, 24th. Landed
on Wake in the face of fierce enemy fire and completely occupied
it by the 24th. Arericans admit capture of Wake Island. Was a
200,000 subnarine and air base. Ame rica's line has ε 14,000 kilo-
meter gap, through the loss of Guam end Wake, between Midway and
Luzon.
Philippine area. Japanese troops are advancing from both
south and north. Have thrust Filipino-American army back seven
kilometers.
Destroyed 21 eneny airplanes in Philippines. Japanese navy
airforce bombed "Johnston"(?) air base on 20th and 2lst December.
Malay area: Air force claims to have sunk British shipping,
including several oil tankers. sunk one tanker off Fenang Island,
and severely dcnaged two others.
Rangoon bombed heavily on the 23rd, military objectives and
airdromes heavily attacked. Attack on Rang on. Het by heavy anti-
aircraft fire and attack from planes but poured dovn bombs never-
theless and destroyed shipping and rilitary positions.
Big preparations for war in Burma. Trenches around Rangoon,
etc. Buriiese Governnent has ordered populace to renain quiet and
prepare, but people ure flee ing into interior.
Report on the landing in Malaya in the face or ficrce enemy
fire. With the opening of the war, cur troops landed in the face
of fierce enemy opposition in lialaya. The attack, which braved an-
nihilation, was in the following fashion.
The sun was bright on the eighth. Because of this we had to
begin very carly. The eneniy, massing a large group of planes, came
to attack our transports. iso shell fire from shore.  But our
heroes, one after another, pushed on braving the fire. When they
landed, they faced tronches and prepared positions. Broke through
the first enemy line Hongkong. Victoria peak, where the enemy is
resisting to the last, was bombed and shelled and attacked by in-
fantry. The bombing and shelling on the 23rd added destruction.
Captured a position near Victoria Peak and complete conquest of all
Hongkcng Island is near.
The Area in Hongkong cccupied by the 10,O0o British trcops is
continually warrowing. Japanese air force based in South China
bombed Hongkong relentlessly and in succession.
-1-

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.98)
British losses in Hongkong very large. Report of Canadian
thorities says this: Canadian commander-in-chief ........., says
that...... losses of enemy due to Japanese air attack in South
China
According to the "Japan Times"(?) of the 24th, the words "na-
tives", used derogatorily by Americans, British, etc., should
not now be used, with the commenceent of the war for the new order
in East Asia. The terms "ialayans", "Filippinos", etc should be
used.
Conference between Premier Tojo and the Thailand representatives
(Prime Minister "Shibun"?) on the 23rd for about 40 ninutes from 9
o'clock, relative to carrying out the provisions of the fornal
treaty of alliance (i.e., attack on Burma?)
Tojo: That Thailand has come to cooperate completely with us
in the establishment of the new order in East sia is cause for un-
bearable joy. 300 years of relations with Thailand, etc...
As a result of merica's heavy losses in the naval war with
Japan, it is clear that important resources which formerly were
obtained from the South Seas are no longer obtainable, according
to a trustworthy report received by the Foreign Office. Depended
on Halaya for important rubber, tin. America has no othersource
for tin than Bolivia, and her rubber stores are scanty. Thus Ameri-
ca is feeling the effect of the bows of cur warricrs.
With the capture of Guan, Wake and Davao on Mindanao in the
Philippines and the sea attack at Hawa i, America is receiving
heavy blows. Their air force is constantly diminishing. rising
from this, there are strikes in America's military polity. Strikes
in Cleveland and San Francisco. lavy authorities have had to under-
take energency administration.
Talk by Captain Shingeki Takahara (?): Japanese triumphs in
Malaya, Philippines, Hongkong, etc.
Annihilatod American Pacific fleet in Hawaii, British far
eastern fleet off Malaya.
Account of Japanese tactics. Capture Singapore, British strong-
hold in Far East and Philippines, center of Aterican strength.
(Just a recount of Japanese version of the war).
Continues his resume of Japanese achicverents. Successes in
Malaya, landing on north and south Luzon, capture of Hongkong a
matter of time, etc.
in i it it
-2-

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.99)
tion JZI Program
ecember 25, 1941
Frequency 9535 Kilocycles
Philippine operations: Our armed units again landed on Luzon
Island in the Philippines. Army and navy headquarters, the 25th,
4:30 o'clock in the afternoon announcement: Landed in the north
on the 22nd on Luzon and pressed south. again on the 24th landed
large units on the south under the protection of our navy.
Lingayen (?) bay, where our picked army units landed is a vital
spot for the Philippine government. Fronting on this bay is "Jun-
gaenchi"(?), "Jungaenchi" is 190 kilometers from falaya. Important
conmercial center. Population 20,O00; military airdromes here.
Began landing in various places elsewhere on Luzon Island.
A pincer movenent against lanila is being executed.
Despatch to Shanghai from lianila: Japanese planes bombed objec-
tives around Iianila.
Citizens are completely panic-stricken about the Philippine
American army joining in a fierce struggle with the Japanese troops
and being thrust back.
Further, according to a report from Manila, the American arry
admits a big retreat. McArthur, the cormander-in-chier has fled
from ianila.
Domei despatch from Buenos Aires: According to a telegram
from Manila, the American army headquarters fearing the furiousness
of the Jepanese advance, is suddenly undertaking to declare lianila
an open city. In regard to openness, Manila is not open enough,
and the people in the covernment are refusing (i.e., to accede and
concede Manile as an open city). Like the cities of Hongkong,
Chungking and Singapore, lanila is a completely military city. A
further departure from "openness" could hardly be dreaned. The
Imperial troops will not, because of this, relax their pressure
even a little, but through splendid bravery will continue the ad-
vance for the complete conquest of the enemy and Hanila.
According to a report from Buenos Aires, because of the losses
in the great Japanese air attack on Hawaii, the shipping between
San Francisco and Hawaii cannot be protected, and because of at-
tacks on comaerce by Japanese submarines, Hawaii is becoming useless
as a naval base.
Army air force, in the bonbing attack on Rangcon in Burma, shot
down 39 enemy planes. Great air attack repeated twice, on Rangoon
on the 23rd at five in the morning. Battle plane units and bomb-
ing plane units bombed air field at Rangoon. Spitfires and Bris-
tols (?) came impertinently to attack, and a great air battle was
joined. However, our battle plane units shot down 10 planes and
our bombing planes about an equal number. Saw 40 cnemy planes
shot down or blown up. Saw steamers and attacked them. Since 6
Japanese plancs have not yet returned we have probably lost that
number. Enemy practically annihilated.
-1-

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.99)
The Malayens, having been ruled by the British for l00 years
e turning against the British after seeing them flee from the
Japanese.
A despatch from Hongkong, relates the condition of last-gasp
Hongkong, as follows: Christmas has come to Hongkong in the face
of our fierce attack, and the Christmas season is being celebated
by the decoration of our shells. On the 25th, our fire continues
with vigor. Clirbing the hillside, the attack on the last enemy
positions is being undertaken.
Hongkong's resources have been completely destroyed. Accord-
ing to English prisoners, the roads, etc., inside Victoria city
are all snashed up. Continually being bombed by Japanese air
force, and a great number of direct hits constantly being scored.
The English and Chinese trcops are continually constricted by
the attacks of the Iperial troops, and the citizens, seeing the
English soldiers flee from the city into the mountains, have come
to see the folly of trusting the English and the Americans.
The Canadian troops in Hongkong have been annihilated. Shang-
hai Domei despatch which reports statement of Canadian high cormand
that since the attack of the Japanese Tiaperial troops on Hongkong,
the casualties of the Canadian troops have been very large.
Tientsin: The 132 imerican Harines captured with the begin-
ning of hostilities are being forced to spend Christras in a fash-
ion, they would not have dreamed. Hcwever, owing to the goodness
of lheart of the Japanese commander, on the 24th they were presented
with a piano, a phonograph, etc., so that they could cclebrate
leisurely in the usual ranner. The Americans (rnarines) are thank-
ful from the botton of their hearts over cur Bushido-like generous
compassion of our troops. /Bushido-teki kandai nasake/.
Special despatch of the Yomiuri /newspaper/ fron Lisbon:
Since the opening the greater East Asia var, and through the sea
fight at Hawail and defeats everywhere, America's losses have al-
ready nmounted terrifically. Hamilton Fish in Congress said that
America's losses in this war are 7% of those in the former great
war. Therefore, since Ancrica lost 116,000 on in the great war,
her losses in the ten-day period since the opening of this wer
must be nearly 10,000. Further, as the war spreads, it is seen
that they will nount torrifically.
Berlin despatch about Japanese successes in Malaya.
Philippine arca 23rd. War of annihilation in progress. Suc-
ceeding in lending and pressure of Japanese from north Luzon is
steadily increasing,..
According to a report fron London, Hongkong cannot be defended
against the Japanese. Further, it is said that Hongkong is very
important for aerica and Britain.
-2-

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.99)
War on the continent: War of annihilat ion in progress against
emy 3rd army at ......... First line cuptured. Bonbed.
Today the 25th is the day of wcrship for the Taisho mperor
/father of the present one/. His Imperial Highness awesomely want
to ........ palace with his younger brother and worshipped, etc.
Meeting of the 79th Imperial Diet to confront the problems of
the greater east asia war. Diet scheduled to adjourn until the
20th of Jan. next year. However, because of the energency situa-
tion with the war, will adjourn so it can be callcd at any time.
Trying to bind the government, diet and people togotior in a firm
union.
Announcement by the War Minister and someone from Cabinet
(minister wi thout portfolio) in conmection with the China Incident
and the war clorious achievements cf varicus individuals /naed
various butai-cho/.
Gerrans are conducting glorious operations everywhere. Ger-
man headquarters announcement of the 24th. Sank one English trans-
port and 4 frcighters 203,000 tons of shipping sunk.
With the sinking of the British uircraft carrier by : German
submarine in the Atlantic, the British aircraft curriers which had
attacked Europe ere grcatly dininished.
Germen dospatch about grect Japanese victories. Roosevelt
drove the Japanese to war. Germans praised sre t Japanese triumphs
in East Asia, and said thrce power alliunce rust fight on to final
victory and construction of new order.
Bangkok newspaper editorial regarding the Asiatic races. Japan
is undertaking & great war for the liberation of the Asiatic races.
On this broad co.tinent of Asia there cre at presunt only four in-
dependent countrics, namely, Nippon, Thailand, Manchoukuo and the
Fanking Govermaent of China. Uniting thcir strength, fighting for
independence of all Asia. Other peoples must join Japan in her
war against America and Britain for the peace and independence of
the Asiatics.
End of news. Conmentary on current events. About Washington
conference between Churchili and Roosevelt.
After having urged war upon Japan to his people, and now hav-
ing suffered these great defeats, Churchill cannot look people in
the face. Fault not only Churchill's, Roosovelt clso worried.
Now they are in the war /though realizing tliey heve blundered/,
they must re-exanine their position. Hence the Washington con-
ferences.
Australian newspapers severely criticizing British defects,
must remove people responsible for these defeats. Duff-Cooper to
blame for defeat at Penang.
Roosevelt-Churchill conference has arisen to deal with these
defeats. Conference will deal with Aerican-British tactics and
execution of war in Pacific and Far East.
-3-

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.95)
Britain, now that Japanese attack has become a reality, wants
American aid in defending Singapore. merica had established a
strong string of bases and her Pacific fleet was to go over to
Singapore and defend English territory. However, America's Pacific
fleet has been polished off just like the Baltic /Russian/ fleet,
in the Russo-Japanese war. Ir the rernants were sent over they
would be armihilated.
In economic sphere, conferences must have dealt with the neces-
sity of obtaining supplies such as rubber. Fothing can be done
here, either. Can't get sufficient supplies from South meric a.
i # i  
-4-

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.91)
JOHN 'EDGAR HOOVER
DIRECTOR
FE
Rederal Bureau of Investigation
SH/t
RECEIVED
aphington,D.U.
HE-FCFE
JAN 28 1942
Jantary 24, 1942
PERSONAL AND CODENTAB
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
E
Washington, D. C.
894.76/75
My dear Mr. Berle:
For your information and as of possible
interest there are attached hereto translated transcripts
of radio-broadcasts from Tokyo, Japan for the days
December 14, 15, and 16, 1941.
Sincerely yours,
Le. 2toover
AFFAIRS
Enclosures
DEPANTMEN: OF STATE
wtice Depactment Guieleis, 1 27.1984
BY SPECIAL PESSENGER
hy
JAN 26 1942
U
FEB 4-1942
FDBHD
5.16.1984

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.99)
(ab)
Station JZI Program
Date 12/14/41
Frequency 9535 Kilocycles
News:
Our military force, operating in Malaya, annihilated one
division of British troops, According to a communique issued by the
imperial military headquarters at 3:40 pm today, our imperial military
force, operating in Malaya, succeeded in making a successiul landing
at a point along the coast of northern Malaya and broke the fierce re-
sistance of the British troops. Then, yesterday, our troops annihi-
lated a dvision of British mechanized troops at a certain locality ,
besides capturing many arms and ammuniticu. Some of the significant
ones were 25 tanks, 16 rapid-fire guns and 60 motor lorries.
According to a report reaching Shanghai from Manila, our
troops in Malaya are making steady progress with the British troops
gradually retreating. Something about having captured British air
bases in certain areas.
News of the first raid of Burma by the Japanese air force,
based on a communique issued by the imperial military headquarters
at 1 pm today. (1) Raided Fan Nga in Malaya and Victoria air field
in Burma, destroying four planes and two transports, besides damag-
ing one other (a) Raided Vengi (Phonctic) airficld in Burma, des-
troying planes and storage tanks. (3) Raided Kuantan airfield in
Malaya, destroying the air field and setting fire to a large sized
bomber. (4) Lost only three planes in those operations.
News claiming the annihilation of the main strength of
Britain's Far Eastern Airforce and claiming the air supremacy over
Malaya, based on a communique issued by tho imperial military hcad-
quarters issued yestorday at 7 pm. Successos of Japanese airforce
since the beginning of the war: -- (1) Destroyed the greater part of
the British airforce in lielaya (2) Japanose air force repulsed the
British air force and are cooperating with the land troops in Malaya
and tho Philippines. (3) Dostroyed about 122 British planes, 1
transport, and about lo0 motor trucks. No loss claimed to have been
sufferod by tho Japanese.
News claiming the destruction of one enemy submarinc and
44 planes in tho Philippinos operation, based on a conmuniquo issued
by the imporial naval headquarters at il:20 am today. Planes, claimed
to have been dostroyed on the ground at Davao. Claimed to have lost
only one plane and two othors unknown.
News claiming tho sinking of a submarine off the Philippines
by a Japanese destroyer (Placo not given).
-1-

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.99)
News claiming the landing of Japanose troops at ..
bosides the two already mentioned places on Luzon. Also claimed the
bombing of Clarke Ficld.
News of the statement made by Adiniral Hart in regard to the
Japanese raid on Cavite claimed that Adm. Hart stated that the accur-
acy of the Japanese pilots is matchless and that they bombed Cavite
without breaking their formation.
News of the capture of Kowloon and preparation of tho Japan-
ese troops for a decisive blow against Hongkong.
News of the population of Kowloon heartily welcoming the
entry of the Japancse troops into Kowloon with Japanese flags.
Nows of the principal successes of the Japaneso army and
navy since the beginning of the war: (1) sunk 3 American battleships,
1 American aircraft carrier, 2 American submarines and 1 other warship
and seriously damaged 3 American battleships, 4 Amcrican cruisers; 1
Ancrican dostroyer, 1 American submarine and ono American gunboat,
totalling about 270,000 tons. (2) sank 2 battleships, 1 destroyer
and 1 gunboat and seriously damaged 1 small warship, totalling 80,000
tons. (3) captured over 200 vesscls, totalling 80,000 tons. (4) our
Navy shot down 91 planes and destroyed 203, totalling 294 planes, and
including the 146 planes bagged by our Army, the total is 440 planos.
(5) Besidos more than this amount of planes have been dostroyed in
the Hawaiian operation. (6) In addition to this, about 100 enemy
motor lorries have boen destroyed. (7) our lossos, contrasted to
these, are two small warships sunk, one small warship and one large
warship seriously damaged, 26 voluntarily dcstroyed planes, 6 planes'
fate unknown and 4 plancs forced to land.
A Berlin dispatch claiming thc inpossibility of joint
British-American naval operations in tho Pacific. Claimed that Pre-
mier Churchill stated that Britain can no longer expect aid from
America.
A reviow of the past wecks event in Japan primarily center-
ing upon the outbreak of the Japanese-American war. Explained the
events lcading up to the outbreak of the war and road the Inperial
decree deolaring war against England and Anerica. Then, mentioned the
Pacific blitz carricd out by the Japancso navy. Then, followed an
electrical transcription of Wer Minister Shimada's talk on the
successes of the Japanese navy. Montioned the sinking of the Prince
of Wales and the Repulse, followed by a description of the peoples
victory mecting held at Hibiya Park on tho lOth and thc eloctrical
transcription of the talk by assistant Director Okumura of the
Information Burcau. In it, Assistant-Director Okumura urgcd the
solidarity of the nation to overcome this unpreccdented crisis for
the sake of the races of Asia as woll as the world. Mentioned the
conclusion of a treaty between Japan and Thailand, and Germany and
Italy's doclaration of war against Arorica on the llth. Thon, followed

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.99)
 electrical transcription of an announcement made by Director Tani
of the Information Bureau. In it, he announood Germany and Italy's
declaration of war against America. Then, followed a review of the
military treaty concluded between French Indo-China and Japan and a
descripton of the victory gathering sponsored by the National Support
Society. An electrical transcription of Premier Tojo's talk followed,
in which he mentioned the successces of the Japanece army and navy and
exprossed his confidence of victory. Closcd tho reviow with tho state-
ment that the American and British navies had been completely destroyed
in the Pacific and can never hope to be rebuilt again.
Announced the resumption of broadcast fron 6 pn over the
same wave length. (JZI, 9,535 Kilocycles, 31.46 metors)
Japanesc National Anthon.
-3-

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZI Program
Date 12/15/41
Frequency 9535 Kilocycles
News of Japan's presentation of an ultimatum to
the British commander at Hongkong yesterday urging him
to surrender for the sake of the innocent citizenry of
Hongkong, and Britain's refusal compelling the Japanese
troops to continue their bombardment.
News from Canton reporting the greut number of
British captives taken by Japanese troops a t Kowloon and
stating that one of them, an Indian, stated tat he had
no intention to fight against the leaders of East Asia
(Japan) and would like to seo Britain d efeated for the sake
of liberating India.
News of the convocation of the 78th session of
the Diet today.
News of the speedy approval of the emergency
military appropriution bill by the Diet.
News reporting a communique claiming bagging of
44 American planes by the Japanesc air forcc on the 13th
alone in the Philippincs. (1) Japanese troops, raiding
important air bases, shot down 1 pursuit plane, sot fire
to two large bombers and destroyed 40 other planes on
the ground, bosides setting fire to hangars and oil storage
tanks (3) another detachment of Jupanese plm es raided
the military headquarters and barracks and set fire to them.
(4) all Japanese planes returned safely (5) Japanese troops
occupied an important post on the west coast of Muluya on
the afternoon of the 13th (Repeated this news).
News of the bagging of 279 Americen planes in tho
Philippines since tho beginning of the war. Claimed, thus,
to have completely viped out the Philippines air force.
Nows of a Saigon dispatch quoting a Manila dis-
patch as admitting (1) 14 air raids carricd out by the
Jupanese air force this weck. (2) furious damages inflicted
upon Nichols airficld on the 14th. (3) two American trans-
ports sunk off Luzon on the 14th. (4) J.panese troops
landed on the northern part of Luzon making stoady progress.
Shanghai dispetch quoting a Singapore dispatch
roporting new landings of Japanese troops mads at certain
points in Malaya yesterday.
-1-

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.98)
Station JZI Program
Date 12/15/41
Bangkok dispatch reporting the denial of the
reverses suffored by the Thailand troops, who are fighting
along side the Japanese troops agninst the British troops.
News bousting of the greut successes achieved by
the Japanese naval cir force in the great Pacific blitz.
News of the christening of the capturud U. S. gun-
boat Wake to "Katara" (or Tatara) today at Shanghai.
Nows of the announcenont made by the War Ministry
on the 13th stating that the communiques issued by tho
army are accurate and correct n d that the nation should
not be swayed by false reports from the enemy nations.
News of the Japunese troops operating along the
border of Shensi cnd Honan. Claimed annihilution of 10,000
Chinese troops.
News of luncheon jointly sponsored by War Minis-
ter Tojo, Navy Hinister Shimada, and chief of staff Nugano
and Sugiyama today in honor of the German and Italian
ambassadors.
Nows of the arrival of Gorman Ambassedor to China
Stalmer today in Tokyo.
News of the cabinet's decision to stop using the
word "Far Ecst".
News of the report of Assistant Dircctor Takeuchi
of the Manchurian Affairs Burctu s tating that liunchoukuo
had expressed her whole-hearted support toward Japen.
News from Chungking reporting the outbreak of in-
ternal dissention among the high officials of Chungking as a
rosult of Japan's succusscs.
Review of the war  tuation of the past week:
Explained the outbreak of the war against England und Ameri-
ca as a war to liberate East Asin and cleimed the sinking
of 5 battleships, one aircruft carrier, threc submarines
and three destroyers cdd the damaging of 3 battleships,
4 cruiscrs and two dcstroyers, in addition to the sinking
of 4 small vessels, totalling 350,000 tons. Also claimed
the capture of over 200 vessels, totalling 80,000 tons.
-2-

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.98)
Stątion JZI Program
Date 12/15/41
Boasted that this is the g reatost achicvement in the
annals of war. In regard to encmy planes destroyed, it
was cluimed that alre dy 440 of them have cither been shot
down or dostroyed on the ground. If uncertificd damaagos
were to be includod, the commentator claimed that thc total
vould be greater than imagined. Described the scope of
oporations and tormed it as the largest in the annals of
war. Termed the greatest feats were the attack against
Hawaii carried out on the first day of the war and the
naval battle off Malaya. In the attack on Pearl Harbor,
tho commentator cli med the destruction of the West Virginia,
Oklahoma, Arizona, in d the Enterprise, besides four other
cruisers nd over l00 planes. Hencc, claimed 80 percent
of the Hawaiian fleet had been destroyed. Described the
attack on Philippines, too. Then started glorifying the
sinking of the Price of Wales and the Ropulse by the
Japanese air force. Then, started to comment on the
successful landing operations carried out by the army on
Malaya, the Philippines and uam, and the offonsive taken
aguinst Hongkong. (Broadcust at this point interruptcd
by static.)
Japanese National Anthom.
-3-

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.99)
tation JZI Program
Date 12/16/41
Frequency 9535 Kilocycles
News:
News of the convocation of the 78th session of the
Diet. Reads the emperor's message to the Diet. Emperor claimed that
his earnest desire was to create the East Asia Mutual Prosperity
Sphere and contributed to world peace, but England and America had
finally compelled his country to take up arms. Messages were given
by Premier Tojo, Foreign Minister Togo, and Finance Minister Kaya,
also. Reports of the successes of the Japanese Armed forces were
then made by Vice-Minister of War Kimura and Minister of Navy Shimada.
Emergency military appropriation bill passed in a single day.
News of Japanese troops landing at British Borneo at
dawn to day.
News of the complete occupation of Guam by the Janan-
ese troops on the l2th. Defense projects on the island were expected
to be completed by next February,but have now been completely taken
over by the Japanese troops, according to their claim.
News of the bagging of three American planes and two
American ships at the Philippines on the 15th. Failed to mention the
place.
Electrical transcription of Premier Tojo's message to
the Diet put on. Opened his speech by urging the support of the
nation toward the government and stated that he had already expressed
the determination of the government to the previous session of the
Diet. Claimed that Japan had made every effort to maintain peace in
spite of the arrogant,atti tude of America. Explained the demands made
by America, namely the withdrawal of Japanese troops from China, the
abolition of the Nanking Governnent and the abrogation of the tripar-
tite pact. Clsimed that if Japan were to comply with thesc three
demands, not only would her past efforts end in vain, but her exis-
tence also would be doubtful. Hence, he claimed Japan, though loving
pesce, had to resort to war, to defend her domain and existence.
Boasted of the successes achieved b: Japan's armed forces sincc the
beginning of the war, claiming that the main strongth of the British
fleet and the greater part of Anerica's navy had been destroyed.
Asserted that England and America are now on the road to destruction.
Stated that these successes werc attributable to the august virtue of
the Emperor and that the fate of the nation depends upon the outcome
of this war. Urged the solidarity of the nation to overcome the
present crisis and mentioned the untarnished tradition of Japan.
Claimed that England and America's ambition is to dominate the world.
Emphasized that Japan must accomplish her aim nd defeat th se two
brother enemies and that a footing capable of overcoming every diffi-
culty must be established, for the war is still in the future. He
urged the nation to have the firm confidence of ultimate victory, but
not to become drunk by the brilliant victories and expressed his whole-
hearted appreciation toward the cooperation being shown by Manchou-
kuo and Nanking. Explained that Japan had been compelled to take up
-1-

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.98)
arms to drive away the evil influence of Englond and America from East
Asia and make East Asia a cheerful place to live in. Expressed his
hope that the races of East Asia will appreciate this fact and:extend
their cooperation toward Japan. Regretted that Chungking is continu-
ing her resistance and expressed his belief that her downfall will be
brought about shortly. Expressed his congratulation toward Germany
and Italy for entering the war on Japan's si de end his hope that the
alliance will be greatly strengthened to make possible the destruction
of England and America. In closing, he expressed his hope that the
Diet will show its cooperation by approving immcdiately all the urgent
bills necessary for the accomplishment of the war.
Announced that the talks of Vice-Minister of War Kimura
and Navy Minister Shimada will be broadcast during the Japenese news
hour starting from 6 pm (Japan Time).
Announced a change in schedule starting from December
20.
6:00 pm to bo changed to 5:30 pm (Japan time)
9:00 pm to be changed to 8:00 pm ( "
18
Japan National Anthem
-2-

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.95)
:PREPARING OPFICE
TO BE TRANNTTE
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TELEGRAM SENT
CONFIDENTIAL
(Fulf ratà
NONDONFIDENTIAL 
Collect Day letter
PARTANN
Night latter
Department of State
PLAINN
Charge Department:
Brou
Full rate
Day letter
Night letter Office of the Coordinator
of Inter-Ameriean Affairs
Charge to
1942
AMEMBASSY,
RIO DE JANEIRO, (BRAZIL)
1175
FOR FRIELE FROM ROCKEFELLER.
894.76/75A
Your 75. Our 54.
Has any action been taken on Jamming Japanese
short wave?
Welles
acting
()
P.HW.
S
RA:PHW: VHG
Enciphered by
Sont by operater
M..
19.

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.94)
65 PSION OF LH
A
+N
MAR2942/
TELEGRAM RECEIVEDMERICAN REPUBLIOS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JW
Rio dE JanEiro
This tElEgrem must bE
paraphrasEd bEforE bEing
communicated to anyonE
other than a GovernmEntal
RFc'a 10:06 p.m.
agEncy. (BR)
Cmt
Division of
RA
SEcretery of State
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
894.76/76
1749
Washington.
Department of State
623, FEbruary 27, 7 p.
FOR COORDINATOR.
No. 106. HavE b-En advisEd by Lourival FontEs
that thErE would bE no objEction to jamming JapanEsE
station es it is rEalizEd that this would bE in bEst
interEsts of Brazil. HowEvEr, hE wishEs to bE informEd
of tEchniquE to bE EnployEd. Is thErE possibility of
JapanEsE rFprisals and what damagE could thEy do.
ChargE Coordinator's officE.
MAR 9 1942
CAFFERY
FILED
KLP
PS/MFM
2

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.94)
SOPFICE
TO BE TRANOMITTED
WHETHER
TELEGRAM SENT
CONFIDENTIAL OOBE
NONOONFIDENTIAL OODE
Hetter
PARTAIR
Department of State
PLANN
partment:
rate
Day letter
Washington.
Might letter
Charge to
of Inter-American Affairs
March , 1942
 Cod
AMEMBASSY,
RIO DE JANEIRO, (BRAZIL)
7584
894.76776
FOR FRIELE PROM ROCKEFELLER.
76
Your 10623
894.76/76
DIP should give authority to local telegraph
licensee to use a 5 kilowatt transmitter with
radiating antenna broadcasting on 15,500 kilocycles
a continuous Morse signal such as letter V thus
giving interference to Jepanese program locally in
Brazil. Japan might endeavor reprisals on Brazilian,
Jeew
effective jamming best done from country of reception.
ptmorueeapan/woyid bare ta uxiitze hxgh/powered
talograph pyanpmxrber on saeh ftequpncy. Suggest
jamming be done immediately reporting effect and any
reaction.
PWB
1942
Poe
FE
RA:PHW:VHG
hw
1001
Sont by aperater
M..
19

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.91)
DCR
FE
Federal Bureau of Juvestigation
nFDi
Anited States Department of Justire
MAR 5 - 1942FEB 28 1942
#JCTC
PERSONAL AND
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
For your information and as of possible interest
there are transmitted herewith translated transcripts of
radio broadcasts from Tokyo, Japan, for the days December
19, 28, 29, 1941 and January 1, 3, and 4, 1942.
Sincerely yours,
.E.o
894.76
Enclosures
FOREION NS 
BY SFECIAL MESSENGER
NAR
EPARTMENT OF STATE
MAR 5 - 1942
Diri
FAR EASTERN AFFAIDS
Department of State
1942
U
S
S
ATB
Tustice Depautmout Grideliues, 1.271984
DECLASSIFIED
C
By Rie
5.16.A984

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.99)
tation JzI Program
Date 12/19/41
Frequency 9535 Iilocycles
According to a Domei dispatch fron Kowloon, our troops
attacking Hongkong, yesterday, made successful landing at three
points on the northeast and west coast of Hongkong. Hence, the
British troops are now being attacked from the east and west,
naking the fall of Hongkong inevitable.
Description of Hongkong and how it had been used by the
British as the center of aid to Chungking.
News of the events leading up to the landing of the Japanese
troops on Hongkong. Hentioned hov the Japanese trcops occupied
Kowloon and urged the corrmanding general of the British troops in
Hongkong to surrender to save the residents from the horrors of
war. (Reception not very gocd.)
Acccrding to a Donei dispatch fron Buenos Aires quoting a
dispatch from New Delhi, India, Gen. .......... Comander of the
British forces in India, yesterday announced that the British troop
have been forced to vithdraw fron Penang, Malaya.
News quoting a Japanese communique clainin the occupation
of the northern region of Malaya by the Japanese troops.
According to reports reaching Buenos ires, our mechanized
troops, operating in the northern regions of Halaya, are making
steady progress in spite of the strong resistance put up by the
British troops. ience, British authorities are fearing the fate
of Singapore, which is now seriously imperiled.
According to a Domei dispatch from Shanghai quoting a dis-
patch from Lianila, our air force raided Iloilo at 1:05 yesterday
afternnon for about 30 minutes. In regard to this, the Americans
authcrities reportedly have announced that serious damages were
done.
News of the Japanese air forces activities in Canton,
Yunnan.
News of the successes of the Japanese troops operating in
Shensi (?).
Already 3500 letters of encouragerent have been received
fron you Japanese residents abroad. In reply to these expression
of patriotism, Navy Minister Shimada and Chief of Staff Nagano
issued a statenent on the 18th expressing their thanks. When
the announcement to the effect that the American fleet in Hawaii
had been annihilated, the people responded vith a total dcnation
of 3,407,170.62 yen for the war fund. At the same time, donations
amounting to 3,134,888.35 were Made to the War inistry.
-1-

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.99)
According to a Domei dispatch from Nanking, Wang Ching-wei
esterday made a 30 minutes broadcast clarifying China's attitude
toward the war. He explained the current war between England and
America, and Japan as a war to liberate East Asia.
Record indistinct, but appeared to be a newscast stating
that papers of a certain friendly nation sensationally playing up
the annihilation of America's naval and air forces in Hawaii by
the Japanese aval air force on December 8 (JST).
According to a Domei dispatch from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
has declared her neutrality, but has made no announcement as to
her attitude toward America.
According to a report received, Rear Adniral Kiimel has
been replaced by Rear Adniral illiam Nimitz following a session
of the inquiry board at Washington on the 17th. Rear Admiral
Nimitz, newly appointed cormander-in-chief of the Pacific fleet,
is 56 years old end was cormander of the 1st Battle Fleet in 1938.
In regard to this, a Donei dispatch from Lisbon reported that the
American covernment officially announced the cormanders of the
naval, military and air forces of Hawaii on the 17th. According
to it, Lt. Gen. Delos Ermons has replaced Lt. Gen. Walter C. Shor
as head of the army, Maj. Gen. C.L. Tinker has been appointeu as
the new head of the air force, and Rear-Admiral Chester Nimitz as
head of the Pacific Fleet.
According to a Doriei dispatch fror: Stockholn quoting a
Washington dispatch, Sec. of Var Stimson on the 17th announced
that arerica will stop her aid to England, Russia and other allies
under the Lend-Lease Act as a result of her war with Japan. In
other wars, he stated that the Anerican covernrent has been com-
pelled to stop her aid to her allies in order to strengthen her
own forces in this fight aguinst Japan.
According to a dispatch from Lisbon, the Portugese govern-
ment and her people are exprossing great indignet ion against Bri-
tain for the occupation of Timor by the ustralian and Notherlands
troops. To devise appropriate counter-neasures the Portugese
Governient yesterday hcld an cmergency session and decided to
hold an emergency session of tie national assembly on thel9th to
clarify her attitude. To justify her invasion of Timor, Britain
announced a false report to the effect that Japanese troops were
planning to cccupy it.
According to a Donei dispatch fron Istanbul, Britain, due
to her set-backs in the Far East, is coercing Iran, a woak country
to permit Britain and Soviet Russia to station their troops in
Iran.
News propaganda stating that & captured British officer
expressed his thanks toward the Japan se officers for their kindness.
This aviation officer was shot down and captured off lialaya. His
name is W. E. Daventon (phonetic), 23 years of age. In an inter-
view with a Yoniuri Shinbun reporter, he expressed his thanks for
-2-

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.99)
the kind treatment accorded by our autiorities. According to his
replies to questions asked by the reporter, he was born in Ottawa,
Canada, in 1908. (Record indistinct).
Conrent on current events: Topic "America has now become
a third class naval power": (Talk interrupted by dots and dashes,
making it impossible to make a literal translation). Vith the an-
nouncement of our imperial naval headquarter's cornunique on the
18th, the result of our forces attack on Hawaii has been greatly
clarified. By this, it has been definitely ascertained t at two
battleships were sunk and that five in all had been de:aged seri-
ously or sunk. They were one of the California type, cre of the
Maryland type, one of the Arizona type, cne of the utah type and
another of an unascertained type. Including cruisers, destroyers
and auxiliary ships, it has been ascertained that 20 ships had been
sunk or damaged during the attack. Hence, the amin strength of
America's Pacific fleet has been wholly wiped out, thus changing
the state of affairs in East Asia. As a result cf such brilliant
successes of our navy, the world has been stunned. Furthermore,
our navy's successes have not been liited to this, but also ex-
tended to the annihilation of erica's air forces in Hawaii. Ac-
cording to the conmunique, which stunned the vorld, over 450 planes
were either shot down or destroyed on the ground by our naval air
force. In spite of this serious damages, Sec. of Javy Inox tried
to mislead the nation by minimizing the extent of the American
Navy's losses. He might have succeeded in misleading a part of
the nation, not the world, which fully knows that merica's Pacific
fleet has been completely annihilated. s a result of these losses,
Arerica now is not able to enlist all of her volunteers. In fact,
America has now been relegated to & third class naval power of the
world in a single night. This indicates that wherever our navy
goes, there is no enemy that can match it. This is because of the
spirit of our men to sacrifice their life for their country, and
this spirit has been anply shovm by the activities of our special
type submarines (two man subs) within Pearl Harbor itself. Ameri-
ca, as a result of the loss oi five battleships, has now only eight
in her Pacific fleet. Of these &, only three are of any value.
Adding Britains nine battleships, she would have only 14 at her
disposal. Hence, were she to fight against Gernany and Italy in
the Atlantic, she would not be able to make any showing at all.
Furthermore, in view of the successes being achieved by our army
in Halaya, China and the Philippines, it can bc said that the
suprenacy of the air and waters of the Pacific has fallon into
our hands, and that England and Anerica now are about to be driven
out of East Asia.
Japanose Iational Anthem.
-3-

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.98)
tation JZI Program
Date December 28, 1941
Frequency 9535 Kilocycles
Crack troops being landed in rapid succession north and north-
east of Hanila and are continuing advance toward anila. Southwest
of Manila a land battle is going back and forth. merican War Dept.
is announcing the landing of crack Japanese troops.
A fierce battle is continuing southeast cf ianila. Cur scissors
movement on Manila from Lingayen Bay and "Zavoa (?) Bay is entering
its final stage and is cont inually increasing in fierceness. Posi-
tion of American troops increasingly critical.
Report from American authorities in Washington eiving report
of headquarters of Anerican Far Eastern army. Japanese troops con-
tinually landing in Lingayen Bay area and "zanoa" (?) Bay area from
transports. Especially southeast of lfanila a fierce battle is rag-
ing. The attack of the Japanese airforce is also severe.
Moreover, according to a declaration of the merican Sec. of
War, connunicaticns with the headquarters of the Far Eastern army
have been cut.
According to the Anerican Sec. of War, as reported from Buenos
Aires, Japanese troops 2oo miles from Manila in .......... area.
Since thcir is a splendid railvay end a fine road from here to Manila,
Japanesc advance has beccne very dangerous.
According to a report fron a Buenos Aires nevspaper, the Philip-
pine president, Quezon, und the merican army heads ficd from Hanila
on the 21st.
Lt. Col. Toregio Sandonta (?), a Filipino of the Far Eastern
army, who became a prisoner through our landing in the north said
he had been lead to believe Japn was a weak country but was sur-
prised by the great daege done. Filipinos had denied neutrality
in the probloms of Japan's Last sia rulations. Most Filipinos
thought this way.
According to the Wash ington telegram of the ......... high
military authorities in Washington have nformed the filipine Govern-
nent that the Japanese are putting more and more of their strength
in the increasing effort to capture the Philippines. View the defeat
of the american &rmy in the Philip inos as a problem. It is report-
ed by Graham Wood (?) in Washington that Roosevelt...........
Marshall are studying the evacuation of merican soldiers fron the
Far East.
American leaders fear the result of this sed condition on pub-
lic opinion in Central and South America which they value. State
Dept. leaders, Hull, Wells, find no way to break out of the situa-
tion in which they are caugt.
-1-

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.99)
Malaya: Our troops took fortified positions end crossed border.
According to headquarters at the front routed English troops are
numerous. Our advancing picked troops took enemy positions in north-
ern region in the face of the enemy. In the southern coastal region
they are reconnoitering. In this region the going is very difficult.
On one hand, landing units in the eastern regicn made penetra-
tions at the points on the eastern coast on the nineteenth in con-
nection with the capture of Kurak (Kerak).
(very bad reception) In the capture of ....... the greater
part of an Indian unit which was retreating fell into Japanese hands.
English command post destroyed ........ naked Indiens, Japanese
spirits (touched?)
A transport received great danage so that the enemy could not
escape.
Japanese aided some defeated Indian Troops.
According to the Japanese (broadcast fades into static)....
The inhabitants of the captured areas are viewing the advance
of irresistable Japanese army as & kindness. To the people there
is a new wage and a new working day. The reaning of the East asia
ar is prosperity.
English lose prize of lo0 year cld aggression Hongkong could
not stand up before the coordinated attack of Japan land, air, and
sea forces. It was announced on the 2sth that four days ago on the
afternoon of the 25th the greater part of liongkong could be caused
to fall easily into Japa.ose hands.
From Hongkong: At 2:00 pm today, Dec. 28 & conference is being
held with arny and navy with regard to the occupation of Hcngkong.
27th: inister of War Togo nd inister of Navy Inada today re-
ported on the victorious war which has been going on three weeks:
War Minister Tojo said that during next year the former English
territory in Borneo could produce 500,000 tons cf oil.
In the battle operations in Halaya, which after America is the
greatest producer of cil, most of the territory has been occupied.
As for aid to Chiang kai Shek not ne important thing has gone
through. Altogether the enemy has been weakened. In addition the
capture of 130,000 tons of com:ercial shipping is announced......
Furthermore from whatever point you look at it, and Japan has proof,
Japan is in a conditicn of great strength.
In contrast with this enemy has lost a tremendous amount of
nilitary goods.
airplanes
1230
warships
124
The Emperor in view of the occupation of Hongkong sent a mess-
age of congratuation on the 27th to the cormander-in-chief of the
China expeditionary force and the conmander-in-chief of the fleet
in China waters, according to a communique issued by the Imperial
Headquarters congratuetory message and then the reply of these
officers is read........ (fades into static)......
-2-

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.98)
From the German High Comnand communique of the 27. In the
Crimea region the German air force sank 4 Soviet transports and
heavily damcged 5 more. East of Gibraltar German subrarines attacked
a British convoy and sank 4 shins totalling 12,000 tons. In this
region the German forces have caused considerable damage to British
ships sinking an aircraft carrier and 9 rerchant ships totalling
37,000 tons.
Australian Prime Minister Curtin, now in Washington conferring
with Rocsvelt and Churchill, issued a statement in connection with
the setback suffered by the English and merican iorces. There is
a report that the nglish government and officials in Singapore did
not agree with regard to the defense of Singa ore and the -alay
Peninsula. Japanese landing .......
British and nerican air power in the Pacific is not the enemy of
the Japanese air force. Prine Minister of ustralia, Curtin, said
as much when he said that ngland and the U.S. are only making a
weak attack.
Estirate of naval strength in the battle for Malaya: In the
waters of East Asia the decreased strength of the nglish fleet is
quite large. and the daage inflicted in the Atlantic and the Medi-
terranean on the nglish navy by the German air force totals a ter-
rific figure. Counting only the damage by the German navy and air
force, the British fleet has lcst 14 werships up until the 12th.
Damaged by subs and bombers in the Mediterranean were 2 cruisers,
1 detstoyer, and one aireraft carriur. By the 27th dameces nounted
to 27 ships.
The rate of losses is one ship a day. Ono must say that the
damago done in battlo to the British power to centrol the world
has certainly been heavy.
Review of the "Third week of our victorious fight": Once the
Imperiul Army starts, nothing can stor thom. Dec. 25, 5: 50 pm
taking into account the fall of Hon kong, nglish aggressive war in
East sia has been givcn a set-back. Tho tide of war is turning
in the Philippines, Malaya und Borneo. The full cf Hongkong is in-
dicative of the vitality which the J pan se forees have after 42
years of the China Incident.
(Very bad reception) Short about cclebrutions in front of Im-
perial Palace and at leiji and Yosukuni Shrines in joyous thanks
for victories against England and America. With regard to the
finishing of the Greater East sii War,............... it is, the
brilliant dostiny of the Japanese forces together with the people
giving freely of their goods tc accomplish it......
In connection with the mission of the union of East Asia Japan
and Thailand have an (cconomic and cultural?) union offcring case
of mind wi th regurd to the Groat East sia war. The people of
Thailand are ............. with the millions of peoples of East Asia.
-3-

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.98)
On the afternoon of the 22nd in Tokyo at the Hibiya Public Hall
in connection with the progress towards the establishnent of the
New World Order the representatives of the ll axis countries attend-
ed a meeting in honor of the certain victory of the axis. On that
occasion Foreign Minister Togo spoke for halr an hour on foreign
affairs, "The accomplishnents of Japan towards setting up a new
order in East sia have been brilliant end those of Germany in
Europe, equally as brilliant. The prospects of accomplishing the
goal of sett ing up a new World Order are good."
Then Lt.Gen. Harumi Asai read a resclution: Based on firn
faith in the noble agreement the axis countries resolve to crush
the array cf England and America whidi obstructs worla peace, to
strengthen the ties between countries and to obey the mission tc
set up a New World Order, and on the 22nd of Dec. in the 2601 year
of the Japanese nation pledge themselves to the consumation of the
certain victory of the axis.
Talk by Eijitsu Yoshikawa on "Gratitude to the Iaperial Army."
Brilliant successes have come on the land and on the sea to our
forces in the world hattlefield. If there is to e victory spirit
behind the front lines, zeal on the home front must be like that
in the front lines.
It is imperative for the restoration of world peace and its
pronotion that the national family becone strong.Until the New
Order in ast sia is established we ust sur ount cbstacles which
may arise at the front and fight, ficht, fight.
The End ir #  if
-4

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZI Program
Date December 29, 1941
Frequency 9535 Kilocycles
In the Philippines our army is progressing towards Manila from
north and south. The speed of the advance is 30-50 kilometers a
day. The city is in a critical situation. In the region of Linga-
yen (?) as a result of our attack the enemy has begun a southward
flight. Taking this into consideration our air forces are sinking
by bombing shipping in anila. also fron the southeast our troops
are advancing towards Manila. The fighting in this region is very
fierce. According to a report forwarded from Shanghai, cur troops
which landed at ....... to the south-east of Manila advancing in
separate fornations progressed from 30 to about 50 kilometers on
the 27th. In the Lingayen regicn, the Jupanese troops which have
landed continuously from convoys of transports are advancing towards
Manila. The fighting in that region is now becoming mcre violent
than that to the southeast of Iianila. The number of Japanese troops
in the Philippines is by far greater than enemy troop strength.
Moreover in the face or the truly fierce attack of our army, navy
and air force the Philippine and American armies in the Philippines
are putting up a terrific fight.
Great bombing of the afterncon of the 28th. On the afternoon
of the 28th the air force delivered a great bombing attack on Manila.
Army Domei despatch. According to reports from lanila our forces
bombing important military targets in the regicn of the harbor of
Manila for two hours on the afternoon of the 28th. The extent of
the damage is not known but great fires were lert burning for some
time.
In the LIalay region, cur troops which are advancing in the
English territory of alay, crossed the ..... River and advanced
in a body on Naninani taking English pcsiticns. Japanese troops
broke through at points on tile ........ river vhose strength the
English had boasted of.
According to a a Domei report from the war front in Iialaya,
there is big river in northern Malay. Due to eneny disposition the
occupation of Malaya must be by steps.
The northern half of the state of Perak is in Japanese hands.
While pressing forward the Imperial army on the 28th cccupied the
city of ......... it is repcrted by Dorei. This place is i6 kilos
from Ipoh. When it was taken the Japanese army directly controlled
the fate of Ipoh. From the English Far East High Coimand it is
learned that with regard to the fighting at Ipoh, the reinforcements
to the initial Japanese shock troops having arrived at the front
the Japanese army is delivering a fierce assult. According to re-
ports from the front line in alaya, the large Japanese units which
crossed the ....... river and are sweeping everything before them
seperated by less than two ro three kilometers from the enery troops.
-1-

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.99)
Japanese troops advancing in lMalaya attacked from various di-
rections the town of ....... which the nglish for ces had most
strongly defended. In as much as the place was defended by the
enemies greatest forces its subjugation by the Japane se will have
as a great an influence as the operations at Honolulu.
According to reports from Singapore the city is receiving a
fierce bombing from Japanese air forces. In the last 4 days it has
had 18 raids.
Since the historic break through of the English Far Eastern
defences on the tenth of last month our forces in Malaya have pene-
trated 5oo kiloneters. Inasmuch as this area was thickly sewn with
mines by the nglish and Lialayan troops it has been e:sential that
the mines be uncovered one by one by our troops and rendered use-
less. This is done by engineer troops ..............
Japanese victories in Ialaya have aroused days of deep reflec-
tion in the minds of the people of Lialay. ll the people are coopera-
ting with the Imperial arny. The individual people have no criticism
for the East Asia war.
Fighting is increasing in the western region. This unit cap-
tured an enemy position in Hoshin. On the morning of the 27, des-
troyed ........? In northwest and southwest advanced several
kilometers. The battle progresses.
From Chungking according to Shanghai news, Japanese troops
bombed the southern part of ......
Internal News: It was announced on the afternoon of the 29th
that the Emperor's order to staff duty for the conduct of the war
had been transmitted -- Hagano, dinner was hela for appointees --
big reception held.
The government in these times asks the people behind the lines
to have a more aggressive spirit full of Bushido and maintain the
same attitude as the soldiers. Having been drawn into a war with
America and Britain the wearing of Western clothes is a thing of
shame. Therefore putt ing aside western things as ruch as pcssible
all efforts must be devoted to the policy of the establishment of
the East Asia Co Prosperity sphere.
Next section concerns treatment of foreigners in Japan. Pro
Japanese Indians among the captured there are sone Orientals. They
plan to release them and have them work for the establishment of
the New Order.
Bangkok: Under the peaceful flag of Japan introductions were
made at the first meeting of the new general assembly. The alle-
giance of the section chiefs was received. From all parts 30o0
representatives met and pledged their utmost efforts to Japanese-
Thailand cooperation.
With regard to reports on the progress of the war in the
Pacific anti-Roosevelt feeling is said to be growing according to
reports forwarded from New York. People have the idea that the
Japanese reports are accurate. That no matter what they say the
naval battle at Pearl Harbor was a complete defeat. Important
-2-

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.99)
observation that American people have no zeal for war and have not
felt well towards Halifax.
According to Buenos ires: Australia worried for her safety
because of the Japanese attack on Philippines and Malaya. English
and American forces have most of their men within the interiors of
their countries. Provisions for the defense of Australia have en-
tered the English-American conferences. Curtin, Australian Prime
Minister has gone to Washington. Canadian Minister asked why Aus-
tralia had not joined in war. Australia had sent large forces to
defend British empire and they had largely become mixed.
A funny story: According to the London radio on the 27th
picking of news of Japanese forces advancing in Mindanoa... What
is the American fleet doing? the English asked. What a strange
state of affairs!
According to Buenos ires Washington telegram: Discussion of
Roosevelt-Churchill conversations in Washington which have been
finished. Inforned quarters in Washington say the results are ..
....... Problems related to success against Azis discussed included
aid to Britain. How successful the conferences were is not known.
Buenos Aires: London telegraph: Discussion of report of stock
sales on London Stock Exchange. 13,000,000 pounds sterling changed
hands in week December 18th, (before or after?). This took place
after the defeat administered by Japan. Okura, Minister to Finance
(?) , says it is related to Dual citizenship (?).
Paris - Domei: French full of admiration of Japanese powers
in war in East Asia. Newspapers and leadcrs view in the same way
the pattern of advance of the Japanese army. With the fall of Hong-
kong the French see the recession of English power in East Asia.
Next to its military importance the fall of Hongkong can be viewed
as housecleaning in the British Empdre.
Istanbul - Domei: Middle Eastern peoples admire Japanese
armies' advance in East Asia. Can be no doubt of great Japanese
victory despite thich propaganda. Egypt, Syria, Tur key, Japanese
have English influence in a ciaotic condition.
The progress of the East Asia war in the third week: The
East Asia war which develpped beneath the negotiations which were
obstructions, enlarged the results of the war and rapidly completed
its third week. Now our army, having restored order in Icngkong
the easternmost battle line of the war against England and the U.S.
and captured the merican possessions, Guam and Wake thereby des-
troying the enenies advance bases against Japan. Furthermore the
hours before the fall of Lianila decrease. Looling at the battle
in Malaya our army advanced in the three states of .... ...
and ..... and pressed forward this week. With regard to Kurangu(?)
it will be explained. Over to the East in English territcry in
-3-

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.99)
orneo our troops which landed
... Bombing of Singa-
pore. Our forces is causinggreat damage to enemy battle strength
in this area.
Report of the develoments of the 3rd week. First: the occu-
pation of Hongkong. Hongkong was an English possession held for
a hundred years. The Imperial army began the direct attack on the
eighth day of the war that is the 8th. For a week after that the
attack continued and on the afternoon of the 25th at 5:50 the place
surrendered. On the 26th the Hongkong officialaom arranged .....
.... for the 28th.
Philippine theater results: Japanese attack redoubled after
the fall of Hongkong.
On the 20th Davao captured, on the 23rd the wnerican naval
center of .......... was captured.
Troops were landed on Lingayen Bay on the 22nd and on the 24th
at ....... bay. In cooperation with forces allready landed these
troops pressed towards lanila. On the 26th Quezon, Pres of Philip-
pine Cormonwealth and Gen. MacArthur of the Far Eastern army left
Lanila and are said to be fleeing the Philippines.
Lingayen Bay where Japanese trccps landed is to the north east
of Ilanila and ........... Bay is loo kilometers to the south east
of Lianila. Troops are advancing on Hanila from five seperate land-
ing points.
Japanese troops in Malay are seizing iportant English posi-
tions on both the east and west coasts of lalaya and are driving
toward Singapore. Looking only at the west coast ...... and ...
..... have been captured and the army is continuing to progress
in the state of Perak. On the east coast, troops which landed in
two places, pressed forward in the region of (Kuhowa ?) every day
and captured (Rahura Kra?).
Losses to the English and rericans as well es can be iven
at end of 3rd week of war:
Sunk of damaged by the Japanese army navy or air force:
11
Battleships
8
Cruisers
5
Destroyers
9
Submarines
74
Merchant ien sunk
74
Merchantmen daraged
1230
Airplanes (confirimed)
1758
Trucks
In the alayan operations only: 503 tons (gals?) gasoline,
1300 tons
...., 2,000 tons rubber, 1,000 tons .......
-4-

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.98)
Furthermore in the Borneo operetions 150 oil producing wells
have been taken over. Within a month's tire these wells can be
made to produce. Next year they can produce 500,000 tons.
The Aerican-English .....
... alliance against Japan last
year were a serious thing and since the opening of the war the na-
tion is ccncentrating on /recouping?/.
In the Iialaya operations the worlds greatest tin producer has
largely fallen into Japanese hands. It must not be forgotten that
rubber coes from lialay. In the east Asia war our forces have col-
lected military prozes in the form of econonic goods of military
value. These goods will rake Japan's econony as strong as rock
....... Until recently ngland and merica have been exerting
economic pressure aainst Japan. The opposite of this is now pos-
sible. The East Asia war has just begun. The real fight follows.
Japen must strike at her enemies with economic and military means.
The capture of Wake, Guam and riongkong and the approaching fall of
Hanila have seriously demaged the enery strategy. In the same way
the cutting off of comunicaticns witin the homeland has caused great
uneasiness to the enemy. With regard to economic means, we have
countered their efrorts. The enemy planned this type of system.
But this plan will not hcld........
The observation of the Ja panese is that the Great East asia
War has been developing in their favor in view of the above an-
nounced war results.
-5-

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.99)
tation JZI Program
Date Jan. 1, 1942
Frequency 9535 Kilocycles
English Portion
(Reception extremely bad) .......... advance of Japanese
armed forces including naval ........ and large bombings planes
Corre.gidor at Manila Bay....
Air raids on Singapore and surrounding areas, bombing only
military establishments -- all Japanese planes return.
Praise for the Japanese and their accomplishments to date.
(Reception so bad that few words audible).
Bangkok sends message to Japan to the effect that the pact be-
tween the two countries is still regarded with great pride and con-
fidence. Countries are like "blood brothers" and will work to-
gether for the establishment of the Greater Est Asia Prosperity
Sphere; Japan as leader and guide.
Something about the mothers and fathers of Brit ish and erican
soldiers and sailors, taken prisoner, killed or wounded and the
Japanese government planning in the near future to Cive infornation
as to the wellbeing and whereabouts of "the loved one s". 3000
killed and 9oo0 prisoners taken by the Japanese /Philippines?/ --
they are being extremely well treated by the Japanese.  Japanese
have also sunk several merican subrnarines and only regret that they
cannot give the names of the nen who lost their lives, knowing the
anxiety of the parents, wifes, etc. Ja an wants mericans to ap-
preciate Japan's position in the war and has regrets that so many
lives have to be taken.
Since the 17th of December Japanese have bombed Haui (?),
Johnston, .....
....... and other islands.
Crack Japanese forces land on Luzon 44 miles south of llanila
and are advancing.
Buenos Aires: The United States War De artrent announced great
demage done by Japanese to Corregidor, Honday. Close quarter fight-
ing near Manila.
Japanese naking uninterrupted advances toward Manila fron north
and south. The Philippine Governmont has been moved to Darwin.
in
Shanghai: (Reception terrible) Singapore is/great confusion
because of night (?) raids by Japanese air force. The city has been
under Ilartial Law since Monday night (?).
-1-

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.99)
New Year's message to Japanese nation, Gen. ......... of the
War Ministry said: Long life and prosperity for Eaperor -- (gives
account of Japan's strides in establishing the Greater East Asia
Iiutual Prosperity Sphere, starting with the 4 years of war on the
China continent leading up to the present conflict.) Prospects
for the future "brilliant". The fate of the Pacific is at the mercy
of our country. (Builds up the Axis partners, Germany and Italy
vno are approaching the same goal in Europe. Compliments their
East Asia allies who are cooperating perfectly, Manchoukuo, China
(Nanking), Thailand and French Indo-China.) The present conflict
is a great war that will not only deternine the fate of East Asia
but the fate of the world. However, it is inevitable that this
war, which has just started /leading us to believe that Japan is
not seeking a quick victory?/, will be protracted. But Jan has
no other alternative but to fight it out, to establish the lofty
ideals upon which J an has been founded and creat world peace.
Therefore Japan will make any sacrifice or stand any cost to attain
this end.
"Extortionists of E st Asia, Britain and merica will soon
be removed from that region," it was stated by the Foreign Minister,
he continued to say that Japan is obtaining groat victories toward
this imperative acconplishnent. (Carries on in the samo vein as
previous speaker, numerating the strong allies of Jepan ana tells
of the great cooperation and material aid reccived fron sac.)
The Empire of J pan has been founded to bring cll the races to their
proper respective places, no mater how long tho w.r may last. There
is no doubt that this will be achieved, he concluded.
Hongkong: The conquering General ..... ...... returned to
Canton and made the following statement to the effect that British
forces are no match for the Japanese. The British clained that the
lack of water was the reason for capitulation, but the truth is that
attacking Japanese forces did everything possible to preserve the
water supply.
Pictures of the Pearl Harbor attack are being shown at the
theaters in Japan. Pictures show beginning of trip and "shots"
of planes awaiting thir opportunity on the decks of air craft car-
ricrs. Shows the sinking and burning of United States captal ships
in Pearl Harbor leaving no doubt in the minds of the Japa ese that
the American fleet no longer exists as a threat.
Shanghai: Bangkok reports Chine se soldiers along the border
of Thailand for their alleged defense of Burma. Burnese cre robil-
ized, Indians are also being used, but still the number is srall.
The Burnese have been forced to arms by the British. This concludes
the news.
East Asia's New Year's creeti ng: (Reiterates Japan's reasons
and object for being at war. Repeats the brilliant accomplishments
of the armed forces. Absolutely nothing new. Claims again that
Britain and United States have been exploiting the peoples of East
-2-

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.97)
Asia, but neglects to give examples. Describes sacrifices of
Japanese people in the year 1941. Tells of selfisiness of the
"have" nations i.e. U.S and Britain, and claims that they would
not share a single part of their wealth with the unfortunate
"have nots"; the situation was carried too far, forcing Japan to
to rise and champion the "have nots". Japan could no longer be
satisfied with the crumbs from the overflowing tables of the Anglo
Saxons (?). The old year of 194l has passed and with it has passed
the old system of Anglo Anerican domination. 1943 (?) will bring
a new hope, a new light for the progress of mankind no longer to
be subserviant to other powers. Japan the savior of the world,
etc., etc. The whole world is undergoing a complete transformation.
#
-3-

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.99)
station JZI Program
Date: Jan. 3, 1942
Frequency 9535 Kilocycles
English Portion
(Reception exceptionall y bad).......... Japanese forces have
entered Lianila......
Radio dispatch from Washington ........ admits the Japanese
occupation of fanila ........
(Gives description of capture of ianila - inaudible).
Philippine Governennt has moved to Darwin.
Japanese bomb Darwin.
Japanese occupy a point ... miles from Singapore. British
supply lines at.several points on the lanalya Peninsula have been
broken by Japanese bombers. (British announcement).
The Malayan war front: Two-thirds of the British ...... were
destroyed (?). Great Japanese successes in this area -- any Bri-
tish divisions destroyed. At one point ap roximately 2oo0 British
troops wiped out. (lMentions s amething about Burma. Reception so
bad that few words are audible.).
Japanese accomplishrents in Central China: cities captured in
Hunan Province, Changsha (?). Chungking troops in this area re-
treating. Thousands killed. (Tsingtao rentioned). Japanese planes
bombing places in China.
(Recounts Japanese accomplish:.ents in China for a two week
period accurate details impossible to get.)
(Reception getting vorse) ngain describing Japan's accomplish-
ments since Dec. 7th.
About America and Britain doing things in the name of deno-
cracy when actually it anounts to brazen explcitation. (Disserta-
tion continues on the subject of denocracy and what it "really
means"; seems to be quoting from the Bible.)
(Talk starts here; cannot get subject yet.) (Seens to be caim-
ing that through intimidation merica forced the South American
countries to declare war on Japan. Describes America's propaganda
and the falsification of the facts..
... lientions the
"Manila, open city" question and evidently gives Japan's argument.
Says that now is the time for the countries of E. st Asia to kick
off the nglo-American yoko.)
End of English

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZI Program
Date January 4, 1942
Frequency 9535 Kilocycles
English Program
Lianila has been completely occupied by Japanese forces. Japa-
nese now concentrating their attack on ........ Peninsula. (Gives
details of occu ation of Lianila) Philippine and American troops
making a gallant but hopeless last stand -- Corregidor fortress
one of the strongholds. With all channels of supply cut, it is re-
garded but a matter of time for the surrender of these forces.
Heanwhile the Japanese naval, air and land forces are attacking with
a tell ing effect. The tine for surrender cr annihilation is up to
the merican and Philippine troops. These forces have fled into
the mountainous district on the southern bank of lanila Bay.
Buenos ires: erican naval base at Cavite abandoned. The
report failed to nenticn anything about the siatic fleet under the
cormand of Adm. Hart. It is believed that the entire fleet has
suffered severe daage and has fled to Australian waters.
American destroyer believed to have been sunk by Japanese plane.
American destroyer sinks nerican submarine in confusion.
Manila: Order restcred upon the entry of the Japanese, people
gaining great respect and confidence in the Japanese through their
orderly occupaticn. The Filipino people cheered the Japanese troops
and waved Japanese flags as the triops marched down the main street
of Manila. Japanese did not drop any bonbs on civilians at any
time during the capture.
Buenos aires: Reports fron Vesh ington: The Philip ine Govern-
ment has moved to Washin ton. Washin ton is becc:ing nursery for
the governments of defeated countries. The importance of the fall
of Manila has not been made clear to the american public, in fact
they have no idea of the true situation in East sia. The loss of
Hongkong and Hanila has upset the nglo-Averican war effort. The
next target of the Jc panese forces is Singapore, which is now iso-
lated.
Sianghai: merican varships were fatally attacked in the
Dutch East Indies waters, the Batavia Governient announced; the
Japanese air raiders were responsible.
Tokyo: A news story was carried in local papers of Adm.
Nimitz's arrival to take comand of the American Pacific fleet the
same day that pictures of the destruction of that fleet were being
shown in theaters of Tokyo, ironic isn't it? The dniral admits
that the danger of further attacks on Havaii still exists, but he
is confident that everything will be solved in time. The dmiral
commented on many things but refused to say what the next move
-1-

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.99)
would be with the Pacific Fleet now reposing in the bottom of
Pearl Harbor.
Berlin: Washington announces the crder given by President
Roosevelt for the removal of the war industries from the west coast
because of the exposure due to the loss of the Pacific Fleet.
Shanghai: A Washington report disclcses the fact that America
is suffering great difficulties due to the lack of tnansportation
and the necessary war ships for convoying.
Hawaii is under strict blockade by the Japanese navy, how
can it hold out more than a couple of months -- the plantations are
raising sugar and pineapples instead of the necessary vegetables.
How can this problem be solved?
Liadrid: The people of Britain are beginning to ask, mWhere
is the powerful United States flect"? They are wondering if Ameri-
ca and Englend have a plan for combatt ing the Japanese Imperial
forces.
Singapore: Attack by Japanese airforce, fron a Japanese base(?).
Japanese forces have surrounded and are about to capture British
and Mal ayan units north of Singapore. Jupanese maling clean sweep
and wiping out enemy in many places. Japanese forces marching along
highway leading to Singapcre in a sustained drive.
Shanghai: The city of Liadan (Madras?) in India is .....
because of fear of Japanese attack.
Berlin: With the fell of Manila and the immenent fall of
Singapore, the Australians are worried about & Japanese landing
force there.
Japanese planes bomb south China.
(Reception bad but it sounds as though the Russians are criti-
sizing the Churchill-Roosevelt conferences while the Philippines
are falling.)
Buenos Aires: The governient of Chile has declared to remain
neutral in the present war in the Pcific (soems to conclude that
there is no hemisphere solidarity between North and South -merica.)
Fall of Manila is just another strategic withdrawal, declares
the United States War Dept. The ierican public is not fooled by
this propaganda.
-2-

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.98)
A news comientary follows:
A brilliant page in histcry: Japanese capture of
America's outpost of imperialism, lanila, etc. etc., Expect some
guerilla warfare in future. ABCD encirclerent now broken. Only
Singapore now renains as an cbstacle. Defense of anila was esti-
mated at 130,000 men and 250 planes; (including flying fortresses)
30,000 of the troops were believed to be Arericans. (Continues
a reiteraticn of all accomplishrents sinee Decerber 7th, demon-
strating how merica and Britain have been beaten to their knees.)
The capture of the Philip ines will give Japan a free hand in pur-
suing the war in the future. The pressure on Singapare will be
doubled. merica is in no position to be able to send reinforce-
ments to East Asia and Britain is too occupied in the atlantic,
Europe, and frica to send help.
To be congratulated is the liberation of the Filipinos who are
of the oriental race.
End of English portion....
 if i ii if li if if
-3-

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.96)
ACCESS RESTRICTED
The item identified below has been withdrawn from this file:
Dyament f aDuinal Hiler, 1940 1444(R959)
File Designation
iterml 894.46/48
WITTDALICE
1-28.1942
Date
U.S.A. National Censovstip
From
To
In the review of this file this item was removed because access to it is
restricted. Restrictions on records in the National Archives are stated
in general and specific record group restriction statements which are
available for examination. The item identified above has been withdrawn
because it contains:
Security-Classified Information
Otherwise Restricted Information
GSA Censership
5.16:1984
Authority
Date
GSA FORM 7117 (2.72)
GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.92)
SWISION OF
TO DA FOR BILLING
4.62
AR1 3 1942
THE AMERICAN IS
DEPARTMENTOFS
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FE
VM
This telEgram must bE
Rio dE JanEiro
FROM
paraphrasEd beforE being
communicated to anyonE
Dated March 12, 1942
other than a Governmentcl
agency. (BR)
REc'd 7:57 pom.
Cofy c
Secretary of State,
RA WS
3/13/12
Washington.
827, March 12, 6 p.m.
894.76/79
Division of
Department's 584, Llarch 7, 8 p.m.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
FOR COORDIHATOR FRO FRIELE
No. 128 Don Francisco. Dip is acting
through Post OfficE DEpartment at Sao Paulo.
VE will report rEsults as soon as possible.
ChargE OfficE of Coordinator.
C..FFERY
82
EIIB
MAR231942
PLE
894.76
(Ja
PS
/SMS

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.94)
87474179
fb n 34 coll cde usg mac
R10 738p Secstate a
827 xmaix
nitua
pyzpu
oveft
ahtpa
p1fv
nabli
orrkj
bitfn
qiqal
ziaaj
pylfx
tepgs
porke
naxq
iwmhe
xuoin
a7 Jfp
ctstc
1jbvg
yhpml
ol:ovq
opcmp
wuhua
axmyk
ytpmz
vixzn
nahli
tooap
Caffery
757p Mar 12 42

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.93)
COMMITTEE:
THOMASON
DIVISION OF
MILITARY AFFAIRS
TH DisTRICt-Texas
+V
MRS. KATE GEORGE
Congress of the Anited States
RECEVED
APR 141942
SECRETARY
UEPARTMENT OF STA
Douse of Representatives
THE AMERICAN REPUBLICS
Washington, D. C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
19:2 AFR 11 AM 9 25
GONRELA
April 10, 1942
FUHEIUN
Hon. Cordell Hull,
of lette to mefied
4/29/4z/w.
834.76/80
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Secretary:
The within communication from Mrs. Cris Aranda concems
radio messages that she states the Sisters of some of the Catholic
Orders have received word of as coming from Japan to Mexico.
This may be of no consequence but I felt it well that you have
the information for what it may be worth. I shall appreciate
your acknowledgment with return of the enclosure.
Division of
Sincerelycurs,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
21942
Department of State
namason
MAY 8 1942
FILED
PS/LP
916

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.88)
EL PASO, TEXAS.
April 5, 1942.
Mr. R. L. Thomason,
Congress of the U. S.
Dear Mr. Thomason:
Just these few lines, to inform you that a dear
friend of mine wes heve to visit one of the Sisters and
told me of a strarce cnll on a radio at a otclock in the
mominr end co etsnes ut l erelock, Prom Japan, she is from
Texico. And tore you con't et noruin just Yexico can
ret those calls. the calls are in muiber tnd they say like
this, 10,00o dollars end t on Soy chan o a ain to another
nu ber ene b er aoein chenae, ane it is rom Jeoen. A
yerw Fow mowe or ae coll.
Hopin yon all tre well.
Re arde to coar Tre. eor e.
Host si cerely,
. S DA
119 . Hovada St.
l Paso, Toxes.

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.95)
APR 29 1942
CONFIDENTIAL
FW
HM
The Department of State tranamits to the Pederal
Commumications Commission the attached information in
894.76/80
the hope that it will be of value:
Enolosure:
Copy of a letter dated April 5, 1942, addressed to
Representative R. E. Thomason by Mrs. Cris Aranda
of El Paso, Texas, concerning a report of radio
calls from Japan being heard in México.
A true eopy of
FC:JDH:DCM
4-28-42

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.89)
April 23, 19
reply refer to
My dear Mr. Thomason:
This will ackmowledge receipt of your letter dated
April 10, 1942, with which you tranamitted the original
Lotter addressed to you by Mrs. Cris Aranda datod April 5.
The information contained in lrs. Aranda's letter
894.76
may prove to be valueble. I wiah to thank you for
forwardiu: this informmtion.
The original enclosure under reference is returned
/80
herewith.
Sincorely yours,
Enclosure:
putIne
From Mre. Cris Aranda,
Apri1 5, 1948.
aw
The Honorable
a-B
11
R. E. Thomason,
-RH
APR 18 1949
FE
House of Representatives.
Ram
PR 18 1712
ku
APR 20 194
FCD:DCI
4-16-42
r

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.89)
May 2, 1942
518
Te the Amsriean Ambassador,
m&xieo. D. P.
The Seeretary of State transmits for the confidential
infemmation of the Embassy, copy of & lotter dated April Ss
894.76
1948, addressed to Representative R. E. Thomasen by
Mrs. Cris Aranda of El Pase, Texas, concerning & report of
radio calls frem Japan being heard in Mixieo.
A cepy of this instruction is being ment te the Ameriean
8
Consulate at Ciudad Juáres, Chihuahua, Néxico.
0
Enslesure:
Frem Ers. Cris Aranda to
Apr11 5, 1948.
PS/THH
894.T6/00
OR
MAY 1 1942
RA
80
Epr
g001
Rnt
FCJDH:DCM
4-28-42

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.95)
COMMISSIONERS
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICATIONS
TO THE SECRETARY
JAMES LAWRENCE FLY. CHAIRMAN
PAUL A. WALKER
T. J. SLOWIE, SECRETARY
NORMAN S. CASE
EDÉRAL-COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
PAREN
GEORGE HENRY PAYNE
WASHINGTON. D. C.
T. A. M. CRAVEN
RAY C. WAKEFIELD
B42 MAY 5 AM 10 62
C. J. DURR
MAY 4 1942
CONFIDENTIAL
CORREL
1942
The Honorable
894.76/81
CTATE
The Secretary of State
My dear Mr. Secretary
Receipt is acknowledged of your
communication dated April 29, 1942, your
reference FC 894.76/80.
The information contained in the
attachment, which was a letter from Mrs. Cris
Aranda, 119 West Nevada Street, El Paso, Texas,
to Representative R. E. Thomason, is appreciated.
0
Sincerely yours,
e
PS/KN
Chairman.
DECLASSIFIED
E.0. 1162. () and 5(0) or (5)
Fec lettei 19Jam 73
Hilytun12/17/73
FORDEFENSE
BUY
UNITED
STATES
SAVINGS
BONDS
ANDSTAMPS

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.96)
FAR EASTEBN AFFAIRS
OF STATE
May 13, 1942.
Department of St
DEPART
Orfigs of Facts and Figures press release no. 27
M1 9 1942
pril  1942 contains the following item based upe
wst recorded by the FCC.
INFOR
The Enemy Save
1942
MAY 1 5 194:
(from Tokyo)
Professor Kunihiko Okura said today in a Japanese-
Teguage broadcast: "We are engaged in a grent war and
wemust not slacken our determination to crush once and
fo all Britain, America and the Netherlands."
Offioe of Facts and Figures press release no. 30
of April 13 contains the following 1tem (presumably also
based upon an FCc recording of  broedcast).
894.
PODAYLS AXIS THREAT
from Tokyo
Hisao Okumura, ofricial Japa-- aookesman: "e
C.
will not only oommand the communioation lines of Eritain
and America, but we wil? carry the war even to ashington
and London. We must deetroy their power.e must aleo
destroy them politically and economically, and even
culturally. ve wust rid ourselves of any trece of their
culture -- in 1ts olmce our Nipponese spirit will dominate
the world."
FILED

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.92)
XEU
Telegron to Tonaon
TELEGRAM RECEIVEPF
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MJF
London
This telEgram must bE
Department of State
FROM
closEly paranhrased hE-
DatEd July 22, 1942
forE hEing communicated
to anyonE. (MC)
REc'a 9:54 p.m.
DVISION O
ROPEAN AFTAIRS
SEcrEtary of StatE,
Canasguram
7-23-42
Washington.
DIVISION OF
NC
4077, July 22, 9 p.m.
SEP 1 S 1942
SECRET
DIPARTMENT OF STATE
894.76/83
WE inquired of thE Foreign OfficE whether thEy felt there
is any significancE in thE nEw tonE adopted hy JapanEsE
16
broadcasts within the last fEw days, i.E. thE Emphasis on
thE importancE of the GErman military succEssEs on thE
A
0
Ruesienfront and thE fEaturing of such succEssEs to thE
U
FILHL
JapanesE puhlic. It was indicated that this linE marks
cs
changE in thE JapanEsE treatment of GErman opErations and
a dEparturE from thE Effort hitherto medE to avoia eny
nublicity which could irritetE thE Russians. As such the
changE might hE rEgarded as a straw in thE wind pointing to
sOmE Early JapanEsE movE against thE maritimE orovincEs. On
thE other han thE ForEign OfficE is convincEa that thE Jap-
PS
anEsE arE playing their own gamE, that they will carefully
6/MLN
mEasurE thE ExtEnt of presEnt and futurE GErman victoriEs
on thE Ruseien front and thE Extent to which thEy cripolE
Russian military power: only if thE JapanEsE arE convinced
that thE opoortunity of striking Vladivostok is in rEality
a goldEn onE will they movE.
The Foreign

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.98)
2
#4067, July 2?, 9 o.m., from London
ThE ForEing OfficE likEwisE takEs thE v1Ew that somE prE-
paraticn of thE JaoanEsE public for such a devElopment is a
nEcEssary prEludE and to th1s ExtEnt thE tonE of JapanEsE
broadcasts is significant. Whether or not however this
publicity build up will bE followed hy military action will,
it fEEls, as indicatEd ahovE dEpEnd solEly on thE JapanEsE
Evaluation.of Russian military strEngth.
WINANT
KLP

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.94)
894.76
83
N OFFICE
IGATE WHETHER
X CONFIDENTIAL OEX
TELEGRAM SENT
NONOONFIDENTIAL OODE
PARTAIR
PLAIN
Department:
Department of State
MC
Full rate
May letter
Washingion.
Might letter
July , 1942
AMERIGAN BMBASSY,
8
48.m
6
LONDON.
:76
3464
6/83
4077(99476/83)
mafore
Your 4069, Ju1y 22; 9 p.m.
The featuring by Japanese broadcasts of German military
successes in Russia does not of itself appear to us to be of
any special significance as it would seem to us that if the
Japanese Government should feel it necessary to do more at this
time by preparing public opinion for an attack on Russia such
preparations would take the form of a more direct appeal to
Japanese self-interest, as, for example, by emphasizing a
menace to Japanese security arising from the possibility of
Russian territory being made a base for military operations by
the United Nations against Japan.
/LI
We concur in the view that the Japanese would be likely
to attack Vladivostok only when convinced that the opportunity
C
1s a favorable one, but we believe that in their calculations
the measure of German suocess against Russia would be only one
factor in a situation involving consideration of their grand
strategy as a whole and of the effeot of such an attack upon
the course of operations elsewhere in the Pacific area.
FE: JWB: HNS
2010
in
jup
FE
JUI. 24 1942

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.94)
DEA
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
JT
FROM
This telegram must bE
Chungking
closEly paraphrased bE-
Dated August 1, 1942
forE bEing communicated
to anyonE. (B)
Rec'd 11:35 p.m
A
Secretary of StatE,
of
Washington.
894.76/83A
A9G7 1942
899, August 1, 2 p.m.
epartment of State
894.76/83a
DepartmEnt's 666, July 24.
For Board of Economic Warfare.
Ministry of Information maintains monitoring
servi cE of JapanEsE radio broadcasts from Tokyo in
AUG 1 0 1942
JapanEsE and ChinEsE, consisting EntirEly of Dome1
FILAD
relEasEs, and prepares daily (?). Embassy making
arrangEments to obtain copy thErEof. Minister of
Information states that frEquently thE reports contain
no Economic information at all or information ofvery
AUG 3
DIVISION OF
littlE valuE. Embassy suggEsts, thereforE, thet it bE
authorized to usE its discretion in rEgard to frEquEncy
of
169
of telEgraphic reports (?) EndEavor to prEparE daily
telegrams as inètructed from scanty material.
PS/MNP
GAUSS
NPL

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.93)
894.76
15222
PREPARING OFFICE
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TELEGRAM SENT
 rate
CONFIDENTIAL
Day letter
RESTRICTED
Night letter
CLEAR
Department of State
Charge Department:
PARTAIR
Full rate
Day letter
Washington.
Night letrer
July 24, 1942
Charge to
Board of Economic Warfare
s
AMEMBASSY,
CHUNGKING.
894.76/83A
C10
pena
666
FOLLOWING FROM BOARD OF ECONOMIC WARFARE.
Imperative that Board of Economic Warfare obtain
all economic information that may be contained in
nte-
Japanese broadcasts. Understand that the Chinese have a
monitoring service which reports foreign broadcasts and
89450
which should contain many Japanese items. Please let us
U
S
know immediately if you can arrange to get copies of this
/LMC
material from the Chinese and cable daily summaries of
economic items it contains to Washington, sending more
complete reports by pouch. Will cable you list of eco-
nomic topics in which BEw is interested.
1942 JUL 24704
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Charge to BEW.
AND RECOR
eell
RECEIVED
SION OF
8
JUL 24 1942
DCA:RHG: JBJ
FE 5:50 fm
cr.ed
Enciphered by
Sent by operader
M.,
19.
10-20000-1

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
BOARD OF ECONOMIC WARFARE
Farm Instruetion to Field
BOONOMICxDERENSEBOARID
JUL 24 1942
WASHINGTON. D. C.
FILE
Diyision of Commercial Affairs
gug 24,1942
MEMORANDUM
To:
Lisison Officer, Board of Economic Warfare, Department
of State
GEB.
Document Security Section, Board of Economic Warfare
From:
Subject: Cable for Dispatch
Please arrange for the transmission of the following cablegram
through the appropriate office of the Department of State.
TO: American Embassy, Chungking
IMPERATIVE THAT BOARD OF ECONOMIC WARFARE OBTAIN ALL
ECONOMIC INFORMATION THAT MAY BE CONTAINED IN JAPANESE
BROADCASTS.  UNDERSTAND THAT THE CHINESE HAVE A
MONITORING SERVICE WHICH REPORTS FOREIGN BROADCASTS
AND WHICH SHOULD CONTAIN MANY JAPANESE ITEMS. PLEASE
LET US KNOW IMMEDIATELY IF YOU CAN ARRANGE TO GET COPIES
OF THIS MATERIAL FROM THE CHINESE AND CABLE DAILY
SUMMARIES OF ECONOMIC ITEMS IT CONTAINS TO WASHINGTON,
SENDING MORE COMPLETE REPORTS BY POUCH.  WILL CABLE
YOU LIST OF ECONOMIC TOPICS IN WHICH  INTERESTED.
B.E.W. is
Approved:
MiMiaone
William T. Stone
Assistant Director
Board of Economic Warfare
45
DCA 2
Jul, 24
N Brochuam

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.94)
DCA
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FF
BAS
Chungking
This telegram must bE
August 13, 1942
communicated to anyonE
other than a Gov Ern-
Rec'd
2:30
p·
mental agency. ()
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Secretary of State,
AG151942
Washington.
Department of State
894.76
894.76/84
Embassy's 899, Lugust 1,
2 p.m.
894.76/85
FOR BOARD OF ECCHO: IC WARFLRE
Following is rtsumE of rEports of JapanEsE
radio brondcasts from July 29 to --ugust 6
obtained from ChincsE monitoring sErvicE.
(1) DirEct cora:Ercial vireless conmunication
Established betveen Tolyo and Nanking, Japan
and thE PhilippinE Islends, Shanghai and Malaya
and Sumatra and Java. Shanghai-Hanila sErvicE
PS/LMB
to bE Established soon.
(2) CEntral Bank of China and Bank of
AUG 22 1942
DIVISION OF COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
Communications will rEopen at Shanghai under
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FILHD
AUG141942
Central ReservE Bank supervision. Reported
capitalization, respectively, 20 million yuan
and 10 million yuan. Chief businEss will bE
agricultural, financE and business in Interior.
子子.
(3)
aug!14,1943
5 to D.E. 2.
1 to commerse
1 to

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.96)
-2- #937, iugust 13, 2 p.m. (SECTION ONE) from Chungking
(3) Central REsErvE Bank of China opens
branch Hankow. Fapi to bE illEgal in Wuhan
area after ugust 10. Branches to bE Established
at Kiukiang, Nanchang, Ichang, Shasi and
Yuehchow to incrEasE collEction of fapi from
YangtzE area.
(4) ExcellEnt JapanEsE ricE crop prEdictEd
this yEar. dditional ricE assurEd by import
from Indo China, Thailand and Burma. HorE than
onE million tons of sugar to bE obtainEd from thE
Philippines and Java. Fishing fleet morE activE
than beforE var with no fear of crudE oil
shortagE.
G∴USS
WSB

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.99)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
MEC
Chungking
This telegram must be
FROM
paraphrased before being
Dated August 13, 1942.
communicated to anyone
other than a Governmental
Rec'd 3:13 p.m.
egency.(BR)
Secretary of State,
Weshington.
937, August 13, 2 p.m. (SECTION TWO)
Five. Singapore to be post war base for Japenese
trade in South Sees. At present must subsist on
stocks on hand until shipping can be made available.
Six. Construction work on Tangku Port to be
completed by 1944. Five-yeer plan for 22,000,000 yen
irrigation canal project for North China. Japanese
have constructed 3,600 kilometers of new highways in
North China.
Seven. Jepanese occupetion Shanghai hes resulted
in Japanese military supervision of British and American
firms, withdrawal of Fapi from circuletion and return
of factories under temporary control of Japenese mili-
tary to former Chinese owners.
Eight. Shortage of grains in Malaya. Authorities
teking steps to increese food production in Malaya and
Sumetra.
Nine. Yokohame Specie Bank opening branches in
Borneo, exchanging military yen at par for Borneo
currency. Ten.

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.99)
2- #937, August 13, 2 p.m., from Chungking.
currency.
Ten. Remittances end savings by Japanese military
since beginning of Sino-Jepenese hostilities total
350,520,000 yen.
Since all of foregoing items ere Domei despetches
broadcast in Jepenese end Chinese and have possibly
been received by American monitoring services, Embassy
suggests thet it be informed whether Board of Economic
Werfare desires further reports of this neture.
(END OF MESSAGE)
GAUSS
EJH

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.95)
August 22, 1942
(Rection
The Beeretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury and
FW 894.76/86
ensloses copies of telegram no. 960, dated August 21,
1942, from the Amerioan Embassy, Uhungking, China,
giving a resume of economio material from Japanese
radio broadoasts from August 6 to August 17, 1942.
Enelosure:
From Embassy, Chungking
no. 960, August 21, 1942.
P
S
FD1BM
rm
FL

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.96)
August 24, 1942
FW 894.76/86
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury and
encloses copies of telegram no. 960, Seotion Two,
dated August 21, 1942, from the American Embasey,
1.
Ohungking, China, conoerning financial conditions
in china as received from radio broadoasts given by
the Japanese.
Enclosure:
From Eabassy, Chungking,
no. 960, Seotion Two,
August 21, 1942.
A true copy st
the signed arig
mal.
PS/MM
FD:BM
FL

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.94)
DCA
FE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
40
AHC
Chungking via N.R.
This telegram must bE
paraphrasEd bEforE bEing
FROM
Dated August 21, 1942
communicated to anyonE
other than a Governmental
REc'd 1:57 a.m.,22nd
agency. (BR)
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Secretary of State,
A18 2 6 1942
Washington.
Department of State
(section one)
960, August 21,
Embassy's 937, August 13, 2 pom. for Board of
FINANCIAL DIVISION
OCT 6-1942
Economic WarfarE.
894.76/86
894.76
Following is rEsumE of Economic material from
JapanE sE radio broadcasts August 6 to August 17 ob-
tainEd from ChinEsE monitoring sErvicEs.
OnE. As a mEans of prohibiting spEculation, plans
96
arE bEing drafted for morE strict control of nativE
banks at Shanghai, numbering over onE thousand. NativE
banks of 1Ess than ChinEsE national currEncy 3 million
DIVISION OF COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
AN
native banks.
4 1942
OF STATE
Two. JapanEsE bEgan liquidation of sEvEn EnEmyD
banks in PhilippinEs August 1. Capitol of banks and
dEposits of commErcial firms with hEad offices in
96
EnEmy countriEs or in PhilinpinEs to bE rEquisitionEd;
PS/MNP
rEquisitionEd funds or propErty to bE confiscated or
utilized under authority of War Minister; dEbts and
dEposit drawings to bE paid by bonds cash rEmovEd by
Enemy

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.97)
-2- #960, August 21, 10 am., from Chungking
Enemy banks.
ThreE. Normal tradE rEsumEd bEtweEn Hong Kong
and Canton.
Four: Food Production Administration Established
under control of Ministry of War with hEad officE
at Batavia for thE purposE of adjusting prices of
food products, purchesE, Export and storagE of such
products and control of granaries:
FivE. Bus sErvices organized at Batavia and other
cities in Java.
Six. REtailers guidE in Philiprines rEquEsted
thE subscribed two hundred thousand pEsos of two
million pEsos nEEdEd for control of nEcEssitiEs in
Philippines
CAUSS
RR

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.97)
DCA
FE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
1N
Chungking via N.R.
MEC
This telegram must be
Dated August 21, 1942
paraphrased before being
FROM
communicated to enyone
Rec'a 4:04 p.m., 22nd
other than a Governmental
egency. (BR)
Secretary of State,
Washington.
FW
960, August 21, 10 8.m. (SECTION TWO)
Seven. Jepanese militery yen being used in
894.76/86
Hong Kong for payment of taxes, various public ser-
vices and purchese of certain daily necessities such
jink
as rice and sugar.
F.W.
Eight. Japanese control transport by ? in
East Indies and plans mede for shipbuilding with
894.76/8
use of local materials.
DIVISION OF COMMERDJAL AFFAIRS
Nine. Japenese strengthen economic blockade of
暑天
Tientsin and vicinity, prohibiting the transport of
and dealing in certain goods and requiring special
Spermiesion for transportation of erms and ammunition,
iron and steel, gasoline, cerepls, cotton, hides,
skins, feathers and hemp.
Ten. Eighteen member corporetions of Shonen
C
(Singapore) Rubber Assooiation heve completed restore-
C
S/DWR
tion work end have resumed operations. Production
will not be restricted since rubber now being con-
verted into fuel by chemical process.
Eleven.

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
#960, August 21, 10 a.m. (SECTION TWO) from
Chungking via N.R.
Eleven. Bank of Tiawan to establish branches
at Cebu, Bacotod and Baguio in the Philippines.
Twelve. North China lisison office of Asia
Development Board discusses measure to check rise
in prices in North China.
Thirteen. Japanese officisls of Cabinet rank
to visit North China and Central China to investigate
industrisl, financial and economic conditions.
Fourteen. Representetives of Japanese light
industry to visit Philippines, Indo-China, Thailand,
Burma Malaya and East Indies with view to promoting
south
imports from and exports to t) sea region of light
industry products.
GAUSS
JRL

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.95)
trowin
TO BE TRANSMITTED
TELEGRAM SENT
SECRET
Full rate
CONFIDENTIAL
Day letter
RESTRICTED
[Might letter
CLEAR
ge Department:
Department of State
PARTAIR
Full rate
Day letter
Washington.
Night letter
21
Charge to Board of Economic Warfare.
August 30, 1942
18m.
AMEMBASSY,
CHUNGKING.
752
894.76/86A
FOLLOWING FROM BOARD OF ECONOMIC WARFARE.
Board of Economic Warfare desires receive weekly
telegraphic reports abstracting or quoting important
economic items in Japanese radio broadcasts from Tokyo
monitored in Chungking. More complete reports can be
sent by pouch. Subjects of interest are: large commodity
movements especially critical materials; industrial
development; new sources raw materials; shipping and
dockage; transportation facilities and development;
power facilities; corporate and government finance; eco-
nomic techniques of penetration and reconstruction.
Coverage - all Far East. Please inform ir this material
can be obtained thru Ministry Information.
Huell
PS/FP
▲UG 21 1942
TRLVS
Rea
FE
DCA:RHG:JBJ
Note: Sent at the reque or Mr. Stone, BEw, August 20, 1942.C
Enciphered by -
Sent hy eperator
M..
19
10-20000-1

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.96)
BOARD OF ECONOMIC WARFARE
EGONOMIG-DEFENSE-BOARD-
WASHINGTON. D. C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Form Lnstruction to Field
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1942
AUG 2 1 1942
FILE
Division of Commoroal Afatrs
Department of State
MEMORANDUM
To:
Lisison Officer, Board of Economic Warfare, Department
of State
LEB
From:
Document Security Section, Board of Economic Warfare
Subject: Cable for Dispatch
Please arrange for the transmission of the following cablegram
through the appropriate office of the Department of State.
TO: American Embassy, Chungking
BOARD OF ECONOMIC WARFARE DESIRES RECEIVE WEEKLY
TELEGRAPHIC REPORTS ABSTRACTING OR QUOTING IMPORTANT
ECONOMIC ITEMS IN JAPANESE RADIO BROADCASTS FROM
TOKYO MONITORED IN CHUNGKING. MORE COMPLETE REPORTS
CAN BE SENT BY POUCH. SUBJECTS OF INTEREST ARE:
LARGE COMMODITY MOVEMENTS ESPECIALLY CRITICAL MATERIALS;
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT; NEW SOURCES RAW MATERIALS;
SHIPPING AND DOCKAGE; TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES AND
DEVELOPMENT; POWER FACILITIES; CORPORATE AND GOVERNMENT
FINANCE; ECONOMIC TECHNIQUES OF PENETRATION AND
RECONSTRUCTION. COVERAGE - ALL FAR EAST. PLEASE INFORM
IF THIS MATERIAL CAN BE OBTAINED THRU MINISTRY INFORMATION.
Approved:
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
87
William T. Stene
AUG 2 1 1942
Assistant Director
Board of Rconomic Warfare
Departnent oi State
DCA 1140
0s1
Ang9o

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.97)
DCA
FE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
REA
Chungking VIA N.R.
This telegram must be
FROM
closely paraphrased be-
Dated August 25, 1942
fore being communicated
to anyone. (B)
Rec'a 6:30 p.m. 26th.
Secretary of State,
Division of
Washington.
FAR EASTEBN AFFAIRS
V4
969, August 25, 9 a.m.
Department of State
56a
Department' g 752,August 21, 1 p.m.
894.76/87
FOR- BOARD OF ECONOMIC WARFARE
Embassy's 899 August 1, 2 p.m. In reply to
894.76
83a.
Department's 666, July 24, 9 p.m. described
monitoring seryice maintained by Chinese Government.
Embassy' 937, August 13, 2 p.m, and 960, August 21,
10 a.m., reported all economic material contained in
IS
Chinese monitoring service reports (from which
E
PTLHD
Embassy selects pertinent portions for notification
1942
and inclusion in telegrams to Department) during
periods indicated and, Embassy's 899, should
九
satisfactorily answer reference telegram.
DIVISION OF COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
SDEPARTMENT
GAUSS
PS/ATB
WSB
271942

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.98)
PARAPHRASE OF TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FROM:
American Embassy, Chungking
TO:
Secretary of State, Washington
L.on
DATE:
August 25, 1942
NUMBER: 969
CONFIDENTIAL
Reference is made to the Department's telegram
of August 21, 1942, No. 752.
The monitoring service being maintained at the
present time by the Chinese Government was described
in this Embassy's telegram of August 1, 1942, No. 899
which was sent in reply to the Department's telegram
of Ju1y 24, 1942, No. 666.
The Department is informed that the Embassy's
telegram of August 13 and August 21 numbered respectively
937 and 960 reported all economic material contained
in the Chinese monitoring service reports during the
periods indicated. The Department will recall that
the Embassy selects pertinent portions for the infor-
mation of our Government and transmits those portions
in telegrams to the Department. It is believed that
the Department's telegram under reference is satisfactorily
answered by the Embassy's previous telegram of August 1,
1942, No. 899.
Please communicate the above to the Board of Economic
GAUSS
Warfare.
DOAYBBS SSW:
8/27/42

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.95)
DCA
FE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
w
TLL
Chungking via N.R.
This telegram must be
paraphrased before being
FROMDated September 9, 1942
communicated to anyone
other than a Governmental Rec d 3:35 a.m., 10th
agency. (BR)
Dwision of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Secretary of State
1:194
Washington.
epartment of State
1022, September 9, 10 a•m., (SECTION ONE)
Embassy's 960,/August 21, 10 a.m.
FOR BOARD OF ECONOMIC WARFARE.
894.76/88
Following is the continuancc of cconomic material
from Japancse radio braodcasts from August 18 to
594.76
26 obtaincd from Chinese monitoring scrvices:
One. Former Japanese rosidents in America who
have now returned to Japan have organized Asia develop-
File
DIVISION OF COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
ment Association, an organization of technical oxperts
s.9/11/4
PARTMENT
for the dcvelopment of eastern Asia.
1-
BEW
2
ducing arcas of thc Philippines under program of
STATE
PS
increased production.
S/ATB
Three. Investigation being made concerning possi-
bility of planting cotton in vicinity of Palembang.
Sumatra.
Four. Large size junks being usod for transpor-
tation of cargo by Japan. and Manchuria, junks of less
than l00 tons loading capacity having been brought
to Dairen

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-, #1O22, September 9, 10 a.m.,(SECTION ONE)
from Chungling via N.R.
to Dairen from Hong Kong.
Five. East Asia Agricultural Research Insti-
tute, director of which is Japanese Minister of
Agriculture, is conducting research into rural
livelihood, farm labor, agricultural resources,
to collaborate increasing production and economic
and population problems in thc "co-prosperity circle.#
Six. Committeos to be organized by Japanese
Ministry of Commerce and Industry for the control of
cotton piece goods, rayon, wool and hemp.
GAUSS
EJH

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.94)
oun
IN
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Chungking via N.R.
HEL
This telegram must be
Dated September 9, 1942
paraphrased before being
communicated to anyone
FROM
Rec'd 3:25 a.m., 10th
other than a Governmental
mo
agency. (BR)
RS
Secretary of State,
TE
Washington.
1022, September 9, 10 a.m., (SECTION TWO)
Seven. Institute salt monopoly in Java.
Eight. Central Bank of Manchuria to be reorgan-
894.76/88
ized to conform to new conditions in eastern Asia.
Nine. Puppet regime at Nanking on August 6
issued instructions prohibiting use of fapi after
August 15 in Sungkiang, Tsingpu, Kiashan, Wuhsien
and Wukiang as well as in Taihu if sufficient district
of Nanking.
Ten. Foreign Bankers Guild at Shanghai to be
reorganized and all anti-Axis banks excluded. Mem-
Lile
ber banks to consist of six Japanese, two French,
C)
DIVISION OF COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
17.7.
C
一
！2
one Italian and one German.
5
-1942
Eleven. Japanese military and civil authorities.
in the Philippines announce plan for restriction of
OF STATE
sugar production and increase in cotton production in
the islands.
Twelve. Exchange agreement concluded between
Japan and puppet regime in Mongolia. Funds to be
made available

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-, #1022, September 9, 10 a.m., (SECTION TW0)
Grom Chungking via N. R.
made available for development of Mongolian resources
and for import of commodities needed by Mongolians.
Thirteen. Large quantities of rice and other
supplies shipped to Japan from Indochina (barter
agreement between Japan and Indochina). Estimated
70%
that  of rice total agreed upon have been shipped
by end of August.
Fourteen. North China Fertilizer Company estab-
lished at Peiping with capital of Federal Reserve
Bank $40,000,000. Factory to be established at
Taiyuan.
Fifteen. Announced expenditures by Japanese
Government for fiscal year which ended July 31, 1942,
8,133,891,000 yen.
(END OF MESSAGE)
GAUSS
JRL

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
DIVI
INFOR
SEP 281042
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
(Moscow)
my
NIIC
Kuibyshev
This telegran must bE FROm
closEly paraphrasEd bE-
Dated SEptEmber 20, 1942
forE being con:unicated
to anyonε. (SC)
Rec'd 12:15 aom., 22nd
SEcrEtary of StatE,
Washington.
1942
WA
805, SEptEmbEr 20, 5 p.n.
ThE Ambassador has asked mE to forward
following telEgran recEived from Thompson:
894.76/89
"SeptEmber 18, 11 a.. JapanEsE broadccsts.
SeptEmber 1l, Tolyo Italian. Savings funcs in
Jepan now anmount to 23 billion yEn.
Septeniber 12 Changchun ChinEsE. QuotEs Tolyo
rEport that fron NovEmber 26 to 28 an EastErn
Asiatic ConferEncE vill bE held in Tokyo in vhich
rEprEsEntatives of Japan Chine Manchukuo FrEnch
Indochina and other countries of Eastern Asic vill
participate.
S
E
FILED
SeptEmber 12 Tolyo English. ThE nEw JapanEaE
Ministry of GrEat East sia is to consist of fou
242
main bureaus: GenEral Aff irs, Manchukuo, China,
South SEc countriEs. Japan, Korea, Formosa and
Karafuto erE Excluded fron its jurisdiction. It
vill handlε all Except purely diplonatic affairs
al File
in

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.95)
-2- #805, SEptEmber 20, 5 p.m., from (Moscov)
KuibyshEv
in East Asic. ThE JapanEsE ForEign OfficE is to
bE rEorganizEd into thE folloving burEaus:
∴dninistrativE, CormErcial, TreatiEs and ResEarch,
other previously Existing burEaus being supprEssed.
Thompson".
HAUPT
HTM

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.99)
PARAPHRASE OF TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FROM:
American Embassy, (Moscow) Kuibyshev
TO:
Secretary of State, Washington
DATE:
September 20, 1942
NUMBER:
805
894.76
CONFIDENTIAL
I have been asked by the Ambassador to forward the
following telegram which was received from Thompson:
September 18, 11 a.m. Japanese broadcasts.
September 1l, Tokyo Italian. Savings funds now
amount to 23 billion yen in Japan.
September 12, Changchun Chinese. A Tokyo report is
quoted that from November 26 to 28 an Eastern Asiatic Con-
ference, in which representatives of Japan, China, Man-
chukuo, French Indochina and other countries of Eastern
Asia will participate, will be held in Tokyo.
September 12, Tokyo English. The new Japanese,
Ministry of Great East Asia is to be composed of four main
bureaus: China, Manchukuo, General Affairs and South Sea
countries. Excluded from its jurisdiction are Japan, Kara-
futo, Formosa and Korea. It will handle all except purely
diplomatic affairs in East Asia. The Japanese Foreign
Office

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
Office 1s to be reorganized into the following bureaus:
Treaties and Research, Commercial, Administrative. They
are suppressing other bureaus which existed previously.
HAUPT
DCA:IDB:CLA
9/23/42
000

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.95)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 610
Chungking, September 10, 1942
Subject: Transmission for Board of Economic Warfare
of Economic Material from Japanese Radio
Broadcasts obtained from Chinese Monitoring
Services.
Bew
OSS
AIR NAIL
usce
PAR 
DIVISION OF COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Agri
894.76/90
C)
--
ON
M.  
ADVISER
NOY
The Honorable
The Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
PS/MEL
I have the honor to refer to the/Department's tele-
gram no./666, July 24, 1942, 9 p.m., concerning the de-
sire of the Board of Economic Warfare to obtain from
Chinese Government monitoring services items relating to
economic questions in Japanese radio broadcasts. As
stated in the Embassy's telegram no. 899 of August 1, 2
p.m., the Embassy has made arrangements with the Ministry
of Information to obtain copies of its daily confidential
reports of all Japanese radio broadcasts covered by its
monitoring service. The Embassy has also received
copies of the reports on Japanese radio broadcasts made
by the monitoring service of the CENTRAL NEWS AGENCY, the
official government news agency, and copies of all such
reports prepared by the Department of Information of the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The substance of the re-
ports received by the Embassy has been transmitted to
the Department for the Board of Economic Warfare in the
Embassy's telegrams no. 937 of August 13, 2 p.m., no.
960 of August 21, 10 a.n. and no. 1022 of September 9,
10 a.m.
As explained in the Embassy's telegram no. 899 of
August 1, 2 p.m., the number of economic items contained
in these reports is not sufficient to warrant a daily
telegraphic report to the Department and the Embassy, in
view of the absence of instructions from the Department
to the contrary, has telegraphed such reports only when
the

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
the material has been of sufficient quantity to warrant
so doing. The Embassy also suggested in its telegram
no. 937 of August 13, 2 p.m., that it be informed whether
the Board of Economic Warfare desired further reports of
that nature since the items reported were DOMEI despatches
which have possibly been received by American monitoring
services. No further instructions having been received
from the Department in this regard, the Embassy has con-
tinued to forward by telegraph such material as it has
received.
Transmitted herewith for the Board of Economic War-
fare is a translation of the economic material from Jap-
anese broadcasts which has been obtained from the three
above-named Chinese monitoring services and which has
formed the basis of the Embassy's telegraphic reports,
mentioned in the first paragraph of this despatch.
Respectfully yours,
fr
C. E. Gauss
Enclosures:
Translations of Economic Material
from Japanese Radio Broadcasts, as
described above.
Original and four copies to the Department.
PDS/wr
820.02

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.99)
No. 1 to Despatch No. 610 dated September 10, 1942
from American Embassy at Chungking
Translation of Economic Items in Japanese Broadcasts Obtained
from Chinese Government Monitoring Services.)
Tokyo, July 29. Direct wireless communication between Nanking and
Tokyo will begin on August 1, bolstering existing Shanghai-routed
telegraphic service between the two capitals. New service will
cut rates by 50% from rates charged for messages routed via Shang-
hai as at present.
Tokyo, July 30. Direct wireless communication between Japan and
the Philippines will be resumed tomorrow. Rate 1.80 yen for first
5 words and 65 sen for the next five in Japanese Kana.
Shanghai, August 6. Wireless communication service between Shang-
hai and Malaya and between Sumatra and Java were inaugurated today
through the facilities of the Central China Communications Company.
Direct connection with Manila is expected to commence within a few
days.
Shanghai, July 31. It has been officially announced that the
Central Bank of China and the Bank of Communications will be
permitted to reopen early in September under the supervision of
the Central Reserve Bank of China. Announcement was made by a
mixed committee of Chinese and Japanese banking experts. Reported
capitalization: Central Bank of China 20,000,000 yuan and Bank of
Communications 10,O0o,00o yuan. Previous shareholders who have no
connection with enemy or hostile elements will be given new shares
at ratio of 2 to 1. For the time being these two banks will operate
only in Shanghai, branches to be opened in central China at a later
date. Business to be conducted on the following principles: 1 - no
bonds will be issued; 2 - control of two banks will be invested in
Central Reserve Bank of China; and 3 - chief emphasis will be placed
on agricultural finance and business in the interior.
Hankow, July 31. Branch office of Central Reserva Bank of China
opened in Hankow. Fapi notes to be prohibited after two week period
for circulation of Central Reserve Bank notes. Fapi notes will be
illegal after August 10 in Wuhan area.
Hankow, Aug. 4. The branch office of the Central Reserve Bank of
China opened here today. Absorption of fapi in Wuhan area is
expected to begin Aug. 1o. The Central Reserve Bank expects to
start offices also in Kiukiang, Nanchang, Ichang, Shasi and Yuehchow
for speeding up the collection of fapi from the Yangtze area.
Sendai, Aug. 2. Minister of Agriculture and Forestry Hiroya Ino
predicted bumper crop of rice in Japan proper this year. Even in
event of drought in Korea, ample rice supplies assured by importations
from French Indo-China, Thailand and Burma. Japanese Government
taking comprehens ive steps to step up production of livestock and
agricultural products. Ample supply of sugar, as more than a million
tons of sugar obtainable from Philippines and Java. Shortage of crude
oil at one time threatened curtail operation of fishing boats, but
now more active than in pre-war days.
Shonan (Singapore), Aug. 3. Shonan City (Singapore) must be re-
constructed as a nerve center of southern regions under Japanese
control, Mayor Shigeo Odata said today. This city should become
not only a permanent base to link Japan with south for trade purpose,
but it also should become a self-sufficient industrial center. For
this

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
this reason, Odata said he was opposed to sending of all raw materials
produced in southern regions to Japan because Japan should not become
a second England full of factories. Singapore relied for existence
solely on materials brought by ships and it still depended on shipping
for materials. Although increased shipping will be made available in
future, Singapore will depend on present stocks until "Japan secures
an absolutely invincible position".
Tokyo, Aug. 6. Rapid progress of construction work is making North
China a powerful supply base for Japan, declared Shichiro Miura,
Chief of the Technological Section of the China Affairs Board.
Commenting on the importance of opening Tangku port, Miura pointed
out that the port was situated close to Peking and Tientsin and that
the construction work was scheduled to be completed by 1944. He said
that completion of the port would allow coal from Tatung mines as
well as other vital ma terials to be shipped to Japan. Miura also
revealed a five-year plan for constructing irrigation canals in North
China at a cost of 22,000,O00 yen to make North China sufficient.
Origina lly (pre-war) 14,Oóo kilometers highways in North hina - many
destroyed by Chinese troops. Japanese have repaired all existing
highways and have constructed 3,60o kilometers of new highways.
Tokyo, Aug. 6. Financially, the YOMIURI SHIMBUN states, the following
changes have taken place in Shanghai since Japanese occupation:
firstly, British and American firms have been put under supervision
of Japanese military; secondly, former fapi notes have been retired
from circulation; thirdly, factories, which were temporarily adminis-
tered by the Japanese military, have been returned to their Chinese
owners. With the establishment of Shanghai Municipal Chamber of
Comme rce, all business in Shanghai has begun to resume normal opera-
tions and speedy progress in industrial Shanghai is expected when it
begins to trade with the southern areas.
Singapore, Aug. 4. In view of the shortage of grains in Malaya,
which formerly relied on imports from Thailand and Burma, the Malayan
military and civil authorities are making every effort to give
guidance and to encourage production with a view to establishing a
self-supporting system. The week from Aug. 3 to Aug. 9 has been
assigned for taking forcible steps to increase food production in
Malaya, Singapore and Sumatra. (1o:30 a.m.)
Kuching (?), Borneo, Aug. 4. The Yokohama Specie Bank is adjusting
and re-establishing financial institutions in Borneo. Early in
July, branches were opened at Sandakan, Kuching (?) and Miri. A
branch was opened at Jesselton on Aug. 1, and anot her one will be
opened in a few days at Sibu (?). The confidence of local people
in the financial institution is increasing. The authorities accept
old Borneo currency at the same value as military notes, but people
like the latter much better. The tendency is that the military
notes will gradually take the place of old Borneo currency.
Tokyo.
While ast Asia is at war, a total savings of 230
million yen is expected in the rear in Japan. Officers and men
fighting on the front also save every cent possible and remit what
they have saved to their home towns for deposit as "military savings"
to take part in the "saving for the country" campaign. According to
statistics compiled by the army authorities, the military savings
and military remittances during the China Incident of past five
years amounted to 290,180,000 yen; and those during the past five
yen, totalling 350,520,000 yen.
Shanghai

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
anghai, July 24. In order to strengthen the "Central Reserve Bank"
nd to prohibit speculation on the market, the appropriate
authorities are drafting a plan for a more strict control of the
native banks, numbering over 1,000,in Shanghai. According to this
plan, a native bank with capital of less than $3,oo0,00o shall be
ordered to close or to incorporate with anot her native bank. Those
which have a capital of more than $3,000,000 subscribed by a number
of shareholders and which have been operating successfully shall be
permitted to continue operation. This restriction is considered
necessary to prevent speculation. There have been reports that many
native banks are exchanging old fapi in order to make profit. Since
the rules forbidding speculation are enforced, the exchange business
suffered considerably and most native banks in fact have no business.
To close these native banks will result in advantages rather than dis-
advantages. When hostilities broke out in ast Asia, a number of
native banks were opened in Szechuen Road exclusively for speculation
of currencies. They enjoyed good profit in January and February.
The appropriate authorities have now decided to impose restriction on
speculation so as to cut down prices. These native banks, which
directly monopolize the market, will no doubt receive a severe
blow. - Domei
Manila, July 30. Beginning the end of February, the Ministry of War
and the Manila Branch of the Bank of Formosa have been aujusting the
seven "enemy" banks in P.I. The work has recently been completed.
On Aug. 1, they will start liquidating these banks. Finance Minister
Kobayashi issued a statement on March l0 as follows:
"The liquidation of the seven enemy banks in P.I. by the Manila
Branch of the Bank of Formosa will begin on Aug. 1 according to
the following principles:
(1) The capital of the banks concerned and the deposits of
commercial firms whose head offices are in enemy countries or in
P.I. and whose trustees are mostly of enemy nationalities shall be
reguis iti oned.
(2) The requisitioned funds or property shall be confiscated or
utilized with authority of the Ministry of War. The confiscated
portion shall be credited to the annual receipts of the budget.
(3) The debts, deducting the amount of funds requisitioned, shall
hereafter be paid by bonds which shall a lso be used for depos it
drawings in the future.
(4) The drawing of deposits shall hereafter be effected by bonds
because when the war broke out all availa ble cash had been taken
away by enemy banks.
(5) Drawing of deposits with enemy banks shall begin one month
later.
(6) Enemy banks subject to liguidation are:
American - National City Bank of N.Y. and Peoples Bank &
Trust Co.
British - Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation and Chartered
Bank of Australia, India & China.
Dutch
- Netherlandsch Indische Handelsbank.
Chungking- China Banking Corporation.
Philippines National Bank.
Hongkong, Aug. 6. Normal trade between Hongkong and Canton has
commenced this month according to the General Principles promulgated
by the Governor as provisional measures pending the organization of a
been enacted. It is decided that local merchants shall take steps to
organize the Guild. On Aug. 6, a preparatory committee of ten, kajiro
Sakurai et al, were appointed.
Batavia

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
Batavia, Aug. 7. With a view to adjus ting demand and supply of
important farm products, the Products Department of the Ministry
of War has very recently established a Food Production Adminis-
tration to perform the following duties: adjustment of prices of
important farm products considered by the authorities as neces-
sities, purchase of farm products, export to and storage at
places within the "co-prosperity circle", control of granaries,
etc. The head office is at Batavia and a branch office at
Sourabaya. Sub-branches will be establ ished at other places
where necessity arises. Director Amahi of the Products Depart-
ment has assumed office as concurrently Director of the Adminis-
tration.
Batavia, Aug. 7. Army transportation authorities have decided
to facilitate highway communication on the entire Java Island.
First of all, a bus service will be inaugurated in Batavia
Municipality. Similar service will be opened at Bandoeng,
Sourabaya and Samarang. By the middle of August, a bus system
will be completed on the Island.
Manila, Aug. 7. Of the total capital of 2 million pesos needed
for the control of necessities in P.I., the retail merchants
ought to pay 200,000 pesos. Since the Retailers Guild is
organized by many retail merchant s, it is difficult to force
them each to share the same amount. It has therefore been de-
cided to use the system of subscription. The Guild issues stock-
shares with a guaranteed interest of 60 per annum. All Filipinos,
members or outsiders, are free to subscribe. This decision was
announced on Aug. 6. A total of 30,o00 pesos worth of shares was
subscribed on the same day. The Guild, in so doing, aims at the
restoration of prosperity and in the meantime absorption of idle
capital as well as the control of prices.
Hongkong, Aug. 1l. Market uneasiness resulting from devaluation
of Hongkong cur rency has gradually been pacified and military
notes have been circulating successfully. Consequently, money
market in Hongkong is gradually becoming active. The Rice and
Sugar Bureau began to use military notes yesterday. The tax
bureau, telegraph office, post office, electricity works, tram
cars, and water plant have been using military notes for a long
time. These notes will be used also in the purchase and sale of
other daily necessities. Military notes will be accepted every-
whe re in Hongkong.
Batavia, Aug. 1l. Native boats which took refuge in Sumatra,
Borneo and Celebes when the Imperial forces attacked Java have on
different occasions returned to Java. Navigation on the sea has
thus become active again. The Ministries of War and Communications
of Java have decided to utilize these native boats. With the
various important harbors of Java as centers, separate organs have
been established for registration of junks. In the past transpor-
tation by sea relied almost entirely on 30-50 ton junks. At
present, these junks still carry salt from Madura and other places
to Jeva, Celebes and Borneo harbors. Other necessities such as
rice, hemp, etc. are also being transported by junks to Sourabaya,
Batavia and Cheribon. The importance of transportation between
of Communications of Java has made a plan for ship-building.
Materials for this purpose shall in principle be obtained looally.
Machinery shall be supplied by interior for the time being and
preparations are being made to manufacture them locally in order
to attain the goal of self-support. (8:o0 a.m.)
Tientsin

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
Mentsin, Aug. 12. Japanese army and Chinese authorities, with a
view to maintaining peace of new China, have decided again to
strengthen economic blockade of Tientsin and vicinity. The
garrison commander of Tient sin issued a proclamation today as follows:
1) Transportation of, and dealing in, goods other than those
designated are absolutely prohibited. Transportation via routes
other than those specified is absolutely forbidden.
2) Time for transportation of goods is:
May to September - 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
October to April - 8:00 " to 6:00
(transportation outside of above hours absolutely forbidden)
3)
Goods subject to permission are:
(a) arms, ammunition and powder
(b) iron and steel of all kinds
(c) gunpowder materials, medicine, gasoline, cereals, daily
necessities, and cotton
(a) Hides, skins, feathers and hemp
Tokyo, Aug. 12. According to the MIYAKO SHIMBUN correspondent in
Shonan City (Singapore), all 18 member corporations of the Shonan
Rubber Association have completed restoration and reconstruction
works and have resumed operations. Some quarters fear an over-
production, but authorities of the Malaya administration will not
restrict production because new uses have been recently discovered by
Japanese research men, the latest being that of converting rubber
into fuel for propelling vehicles by a simple chemical process. The
MIYAKO correspondent predicts that it will not be long before all
automobiles in Malaya will be running on this rubber-base fuel.
Manila, Aug. 13. The Ministries of War and Finance have instructed
the Bank of Taiwan to formulate a plan for the establishment of
"extension" or branch offices at places of economic development in
the Philippines in order to provide a financial system locally.
Preparations are being made for establishing "extension offices" at
Cebu (on Cebu Island), Bacotod (negros) and Baguio (Luzon). The
first two will be opened sometime this month.
Peking, Aug. 13. North China Liaison Office of Asia Development
Board called a conference today for discussing measures to counteract
rise in prices. Those attending the conference are Chief Liaison
Officer Shiozawa and other officials ∞ncerned as well as representa-
tives of economic circle. In his opening address, Shiozawa stated
that the harvest of farm products in North China, especially in its
southern part, is better than what has been expected; that more
wheat can be purchased than first estimated; and he has confidence
in the suc cess of carrying out the measures to check rise in pric es.
After exchanging views, the proposal of Tsuchima, Director of the
North China Development Project, for organizing a People's Committee
for Assisting in Checking Price Increase was passed. The conference
then adjourned.
Tokyo

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
Tokyo,Aug.l4-l5.The Asiatic Development Board has begun to utilize
the services of cabinet officers. It has sent the following
officers to China to investigate present conditions:
1st group
Murase and Sakuma, leaving Japan Aug. 20, to
investigate political and hemp-making conditions
in Central and North China, after which they shall
return to Japan. (Time needed - 37 days)
2nd group
Kondo, Shibayama and Shinoi, to investigate local
conditions at the seat of North China Government
and the conditions under which Japanese people
enter and leave North China, after which they shall
return to Japan (Time needed - 31 days)
3rd group
Goto, Ichinomiya and
, leaving Japan Oct.
15 and returning Oct. 31, to investigate conditions
of production and communications in Central and
North China.
4th group
Tanabe, Kato and hinohara, leaving Japan Sept. 1,
to investigate financial, economic and people's
livelihood conditions in North and South China
(Time needed - 37 days)
Besides the following officers have also been instructed to make
inspection tour to China: Komai (general conditions), Kuroda (rural
conditions), Okuma (educational conditions), Kumugaya (labor
conditions), and Nakatani and Kimura (special service). They shall
visit places wherever necessary and submit reports to the Asia
Development Board at the end of the current year.
Tokyo, Aug.l6-17. The South Seas Spinning Industry Association
called a meeting on Aug. 15. The hitherto Industrial and Commercial
Councils of 3 municipalities and 3 hsiens have been changed to 6
municipalities and 6 hsiens. Arata Kishimoto, Mayor of Tokyo, has
been elected President of the Council. Discussions regarding
operation this year are also held. Japanese exhibits to the Thailand
Exhibition in Memory of the Promulgation of Constitution and to the
First Japanese Exhibition at Saigon shall be handled in the same way
as last year. Decisions are also adopted to send a Mission for
Assisting Reconstruction of the South Seas and also a Mission for
Investigation of Imports and Exports of Light Industry Products.
(Mission for Assisting Reconstruction of the South Seas) a total of
18 members to be selected from among the members of the Industrial
and Commercial Council for 6 municipalities and 6 hsiens, of which
first group shall proceed to Indo-China, second group to Malaya,
Burma and Sumatra, and third group to P.I., Borneo and Java.
(Mission for Investigation of Import and Export of Light Industry
Products) a total of 15 members to be selected from owners of light
industries at various large cities in Japan. The objective of this
mission is to promote imports from, and export to, the South Seas of
light industry products. The first group shall proceed to Thailand
and Indo-China, second group to P.I., third group to Malaya and
Burma and fourth group to N.E.I.
Production and Cultural Exhibition to be held at large cities in
Malaya, Burma, N.E.I. and P.I. for introducing Japanese products
and culture so as to increase the understanding of the South Seas
people.
Tokyo

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
Tokyo, Aug. 20. Japanese who have resided in America for many
years and who have now returned to Japan are organizing an
"Asiatic Development Association" in which technical experts
will be gathered for the development of Great East Asia. An
inaugural ceremony was held on August 20. About 400 persons
attended. A manifesto will be issued in which stress will be
laid on the development of barren land abroad so as to
contribute to the establishment of the "East Asiatic Co-
prosperity Circle".
Manila, Aug. 22. The Minister of Production, accompanied by
the Minister of Agriculture and Commerce, inspected Palawan (?)
and Pampangas, the chief grains producing areas of the P.I. to
see how the project of increasing production is carried out.
In the farming districts, about 80 to 90% have already had
paddies planted while a small part is still planting paddy
because they obtained seeds comparatively late. Paddies planted
in June are 17 or 18 inches high. Insects that people are afraid of
have not yet appeared. So a good harvest is expected next fiscal
year. For self-support of rice for military use, the Palawan (?)
farms have completed adjustment and out of a total of 2,ooo acres,
Formosan rice aa will be transplanted in 4o0 acres.
Singapore, Aug. 20. To echo the plan of increasing production in
Burma, efforts are being made to investigate and to transplant
cotton in the vicinity of Palembang, umatra. It is said that the
district is geologically suitable for planting cotton and an increase
of cotton production is expected. (9:oo a.m.)
Certain base, Aug. 20. The Japanese have been successful in
utilizing rafts for shipping lumber. Now the famous Chinese junks
are being used by Japan and "Manchukuo" for transportation purposes.
These junks are safe and economical, and are able to make shipments
in large quantities. The Japanese and "Manchukuo" authorities have
recently used 20 larger size junks, each with a loading capacity of
less than 1o0 tons, for shipping gunny bags to Manchuria - these
bags are needed by Manchurians for packing broad beans. The junks
took only little more than ten days to reach Dairen from Hongkong.
They do not need fuels and will be helpful in sea transportation.
They will be used in large numbers by the authorities concerned
hereafter.
Tokyo, Aug. 22. In view of the urgency of reconstruction activities
in the South, the East Asia Agricultural Research Institute, of
which the Minister of Agricult ure is concurrently the Director,
has borrowed an office in the Bureau of Agriculture of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Forestry to start operation. The Institute is
endeavoring to adjust and make r esearch in the following:
(1) Research in rural livelihood and rural labor at places in the
"co-prosperity circle".
(2) Research in biological resources (sic) useful to agriculture.
(3) Chemical research in the ways and means of preventing famine
and of increasing production.
(4) Research in general agricultural questions.
The main topics for research and investigation are:
(1) Domestic investigations.
(2) Economic and population problems.
The findings of such investigetions will make one understand
the agricultural and geographical ∞nd itions in East Asia so that
a general agricultural plan may be formulated. With the guidance
successful.
Tokyo

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
Tokyo, Aug. 22. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry issued on
Aug. 24 a proclamation appointing members of preparatory committees
for the control of cotton piece goods, rayon, wool and hemp. They
are instructed to form separate committees. The number of members
should be: cotton piece goods 92, artificial silk l22, wool 38 and
hemp 22. These control committees will report to the Minister of
Commerce and Industry before October 10 and will request approval
for their formal establ ishment. The present Fibre Products
Distribution Association will be abolished before long, and a new
legal person (public body) will be organized to handle the
distribution of fibre products. The Fibre Products Control
Committee will be organized by the above-mentioned four control
committees and Distribution Association after the establishment of
the four committees. The cotton piece goods and rayon control
committees will eadh have 10 supervisory members and the wool and
hemp control committees each have 5.
Batavia, Aug. 24. The salt consumed by inhabitants of Java has been
imported from Madura Island. fter Japanese occupation, the supply
of salt in Java suddenly became insufficient to meet demand
therefor. In view of such state of affairs, the military and civil
authorities have exerted efforts to increase production and to
improve transportation of salt. Bureaus for monopolistic sale of
salt have recently been establ is hed at Batavia, Semarang and
Sourabaya. These bureaus have begun to distribute salt to various
localities. Their efforts are generally speaking successful.
BOGUS "CENTRAL BANK" OF "MANCHUKUO" TO BE REORGANIZED
The "Manchukuo" Government has of late been studying the way
of reorganizing the "Central Bank of Manchukuo" in order to suit
the needs of the new situation. Having discussed certain concrete
policies concerning the reorganization, a conference will be called
for making an official decision, so that the bank will after re-
organization be able to conform to the new financial system enforced
since the outbreak of hostilities in Great ast Asia.
Tokyo, "ug. 7. According to an Asahi correspondent in Nanking,
the Chinese "National Government" issued instructions yesterday
to Sungkiang, Tsingpu, Kiashan, Wuhsien and Wukiang prohibiting
the use of fapi. These places are in the Taihu Model District of
Nanking. The instruction will be put into effect on Aug. 15.
The same instructions have been carried out sometime ago at Nanking,
Shanghai, Hangchow, Kiashing, Qunshan, Soochow, Changchow, Kiangying,
Chinkiang and Wusih. - Domei.
Tokyo, Aug. 7. According to an Asahi correspondence from Shanghai,
after the reorganization takes place in the near future, the
Foreign Bankers Guild in Shanghai wi ll no longer include English and
American members. All anti-axis banks, includ ing Dutch and Belgian,
will be dismissed. Those left will be 6 Japanese, 2 French, 1
Italian and 1 German banks. - Domei.
Manila

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
Janila, Aug. 10. The military and civil authorities in P.I.
announced today the revised production plan which provides for the
change in the production of sugar and includes a five year plan for
cotton production as follows: (Change in production of sugar)
1. Only a certain number of sugar factories with
output sufficient for domestic consumption shall
be retained. All others shall be used for manufacture
of alcohol directly from potatoes (?) and factories of
enemy nationalities shall manufacture fuels in order
to protect interest of potato (?) producers.
2. Only a certain number of potato (?) farms capable of
supplying the ne eds for manufacture of sugar,
shall be retained. Part of the remaining farms
shall be devoted to production of raw materials for
making alcohol and the rest for planting cotton.
3. The above shall be enforced as part of the 5-year
plan - from 17th to 2lst year of Showa. All surplus
potato (?) farms shall be used to plant grains.
(General principles of increasing cotton production)
1. During the 5 years from 1942 to 1946, total area of
cotton fields sha11 be increased to 455,000 mow
producing 1,500,000 piculs of cotton. In 17th year
of Showa, however, the area is only 12,00o mow producing
only 37,000 piculs.
2. The Cotton Industrial Society of Japan shall be the
organ taking charge of increase of production and
shall be authorized to plant and purchase cotton
as well as to do other business. A Philippines
Cotton Purchase Association shall be organized
to guide and ∞ntrol cotton production. It shall
make close contacts with Japanese cotton producers.
3. Purchases of cotton shall be made by authorized
parties either in case or by signing contracts.
The prices quoted in various districts shall
take into consideration both the expens es of
production and the benefit of cot ton industry.
Kalgan, Aug. 31. The Mongolian Government, with a view to providing
guaranty for exchange funds, desired to conclude an agreement with
the Japanese Government. Minister of Economics Numano has been
holding negotiations with the Japanese Ministry of Finance and
other authorities concerned. An agreement was signed at Tokyo on
Aug. 28 proyiding for an increase to a reasonably large figure of
exchange. These funds will, according to a statement issued on Aug.
31 by the Ministry of Economics, be used for development of
important resources needed in time of war and for importing
necessities for the Mongolians. The statement added that the
Japanese Government has determined to help the Mongolian Government
in this regard.
Saigon, Aug. 26. The barter agreement for the present year based
end of August will exceed 70%.
Seoul

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.95)
-10-
Seoul,
The North China Fertilizers Kaisha was opened in
Peking on Aug. 31. Its total capital is 40,000,000 (25% paid up as
first instalment, Japan and North China Development each sharing
half). The President of the Kaisha will be S. Shiraishi, Manager of
the Seoul Branch of the Japanese Iron and Steel Works. In order to
increase grain and cotton production in North China, the abundantly
produced coal tar and gypsum will be used for manufacturing
in large quantities. A factory will be established at Taiyuan.
JAPAN ANNOUNCED RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR THE
FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1942.
Annual Receipts:
Regular receipts
4,277,430,000 Yen
Temporary receipts
4,324,624,000
11
Ordinary annualreceipts
133,214,000
19
Loans .......
2,406,275,000
11
Surplus from last
fiscal year
584,774,000
1"
Total
8,601,695,000 Yen
Annual Disbursements:
Regular disbursements
3,284,995,000 Yen
Temporary disbursements
4,848,895,000
Total
8,133,891,000 Yen
Credit Balance
467,803,000 Yen
(True copy:
(Compared:

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.96)
DEA
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
1N
DLA
Chungking via Kanachi
This telegram must be
paraphrased before beinRoMDated Oetober 7, 1942
communicated to anyone
Rec'à 3:06 p.m. 8th
other then a Governmental
agency. (BR)
vision of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Secretery of Stete, 
ACT 1 2 1942
e1942
Washington.
Depar ment of State
IMMEDIATE
(SECTION ONE)
1146, October 7, noon
894.76/98
Embessy's/1022, September 9, 10 e.m.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
COMMERCIAL AEBAIRS
894.76/91
100
Following is resume of Economic material from
DIVISION
976
Japanese radio broadcasts from August 26 to September 21
obtained from Chinese monitoring services.
One. North Chine Development Compeny to issue
bonds to emount of $30,000,000.
Two. Philippine branch of South Sees Development
Bank has succeeded bank of Formose as represent tive
of Japanese banks in the Phillppines. It will extend
loans to Japanese mining and spinning industrdes,
exchange new military notes for old ones end issue
such notes in smeller denominations.
Three. Circuletion of fapi prohibited in eree
under the jurisdiction of puppet Kwangtung Provincial
Government beginning September 15.
P
S
Four. Eight large banks in Tokyo to establish
A
joint new benk in North Chine for promotion of
D
economic reconstruction.
Five.

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.99)
-2- #1146, October 7, nooh (SECTION ONE), from Karachi
Five. Ilend oil tanker errived Bangkok on
August 30 from unnamed port, the first shipment since
beginning of war in the Pacific.
Six. Dredging of Singapore herbor has resulted
in raising of motor launches end sail boats which will
be repaired and made availeble for use.
Seven. Construction bureau has been orgenized to
develop Hsing Lung coal mines in Jehol.
GAUSS
NPL

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.99)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
HEL
Chungking via Karachi
This telegram must be
paraphrased before being
Dated October 7, 1942
communicated to anyone
FROM
other than a Governmental
Rec'd 5:48 p.m., 8th
agency. (BR)
Secretary of State,
Washington.
IMMEDIATE
1146, October 7, noon, (SECTION TWO)
Eight: Under Japanese cotton maintenance plan
for Philippines 12, Oo0 acres of cotton planted on
Negros, Luzon and Mindanao.
Nine. Total of 21o factories of enemy nationality
have been turned over by Japanese military to the
"people" for operation.
Ten. College agriculture of University of Philippines
at Los Banos to be roopened vith Japanese agricultural
experts on staff.
Eleven. South Seas Development Bank established
in Singapore September 1; branches will be established
in Sumatra.
Twelve. Japanese military now operating match
factory at Surabaya producing 500,000 small cases.
a month.
Thirteen. Central Trust Company of the Central
Bank of China at Shanghai to be liquidated by Yokohana
Specie

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-, #1146, October 7, noon, (SECTION TWO), from
Chungking via Karachi.
Specie Bank
All trade at Hong Kong to be under control
of Hong Kong Trade Union.
Fifteen. Sea Navigation Bureau established in
Borneo under the control of military authorities com-
munication between cities relying entirely upon
sea routes.
Sixteen. Nanking regimo has promulgated regula-
tions for control of banking institutions and all banks
in Kiangsu, Chekiang and Anhwei and in Nanking and
Shanghai have been put under control of Nanking authorities
Seventeen. Indochina Economic Bureau applying
barter system to trado with Manchuria, Korca and
China; to ensure importation from those threc areas
of cotton piece goods, chomicals and motals needed
in Indochina Bureau will not pcrmit shipment of oxports
until imports arrive in Indochinc from countries named.
(END OF MESSAGE)
GAUSS
JRL

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
(Moscow)
REA
001
This telegram must be
Kuibyshey
closøly paraphrased be-
FROMundatod
1942
6FR
forg being communicated
Crs
to anyone. (SC)
Rec:d 11:05 p.m. 12th
Sccretary of Stato,
OCT 1 9 1942
A
Washington.
Tho following tologram has boon rec d from Moscow
322, October 9, noon Japanoso broadcasts.
DIVISION OF COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
DERARTMENT OF STATE
OCT15 1942
icc will be harvested in Java this yoar.
894.76/92
Tokyo Japanoso Soptombor 22: Govornment of
Manchukuo is working on a four yoar plan of industrial
dovelopmont. Expocts fifty now factorios to be built
in that time.
Tokyo Spanish September 21: In last ton yoars
state budget of Manchukuo incroasod from 100,000,000
Jon (*) rico crop in Japan. School children will
dovoto thirty days a yoar to holping poasants.
Tekyo Japaneso Soptembor 25: Japanuso Govorn-
PC
mont is studying quustion cf incroasing wages in cortain
branchos of industry.
NOV 2 - 1942
THOMPSON
FILED
KLP
(*) Apparont omission

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.93)
876
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Radio Broadcasts from Japan to Latin America:
894.76/93
Transmits copies of -.
35
bjh
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
letter
(Despatoh, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)
From
Dated0ct.12.1942
11p/
Justice Dept. (Hoover)
File No.
894.20210/206.
1-1540
93

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.92)
#
DCA
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Ei
HRL
(Toscow)
This tologram must be
Ruibyshev
closely paraphrased be-
forc boing cormunicated
FROMtod Cctobor 17, 1942
to anyone. (sc)
FILER
Rec'd 1:07 a.m., 22nd
Fele
Socrctary of Stato
ons
Washing ton.
894.76/94
The following telegram has been reccived from
OSCOW.
339, October 17, 3 p.m.
A
894.76
JAPA ESE BRO ADCASTS.
Tolyo-Japanese October 2.
deposits in Japanese
savines benks on Soptouber 1, 22 million n mgher
this year tar last.
S
Tokyo-Japeneso Getober a csscciabicn essistance
/LMB
Throne aas appealed for centribut on to Government of
50 billien yon needed to und t o wer successfully.
Tolkyo-Jap. nose October 2:
unchurtan clec tric 1
Pava to:
company has tripled in size un past five years.
DIVISION OF COMMERCIAL
Changchun Chinese Octooer a: Iutsui Company will
NOV2
10
FILED
0CT261942
invost & million yon in mercury mines in Johol Provin
2-4942
Tokyo-Japanese October 6:
ilitar ecministratio
Sonndential File
Philippines prepared fivo year plan inere se cotton
cultivation by one five thousend hec bares.
Chanschun Chinese Cctoper  at conference Chang-
chun onterppases encaged procuroment aericultural
products

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.94)
-2- #339, October 17, 3 p•m. from (iloscow) Kuibyshev
products accused of profiteering! Poasants urged retain
only food for own use. Government urged raise prices
as pocsants dassatisfied being forcod sell at present
fixcd prices.
Chengchun October 6: prices in Manchukuo 50 to
100 percent higher than in Japen.
Tokyo Japaneso Cctober 8: inister Agriculture
states rice crop Japan greater than preceding years.
Thompson.
TEPDET3O1
RR

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.96)
Tne
mines
Agri
PARAPHRASE OF TELEGRAM RECEIVED
BEW
10726/42
FROM:
AMEMBASSY, Kuibyshev
mcQ
TO:
Secretary of State, Washington
DATE:
October 17, 1942, 3 p.m.
NUMBER:  Unnumbered
CONFIDENTIAL
You are informed that on October 17, 1942 the follow-
ing telegram was received from Moscow as no. 339.
Japanese broadcasts.
October 2 Tokyo-Japanese: On September 1, the de-
posits in Japanese savings banks were 22 million yen higher
this year than last.
October 2 Tokyo-Japanese: Association assistance
Throne has appealed for contribution to Government of
50 billion yen needed to win the war successfully.
October 2 Tokyo-Japanese: In the past five years,
the Manchurian Electrical Company has tripled in size.
October 2 Changchun Chinese: 9 million yen will be
invested in the meroury mines in Jehol Province by the
Mitsui Company.
October 6 Tokyo-Japanese: A five year plan to increase
cotton cultivation by 15,0o0 hectares has been prepared by
the military administration of the Philippines.
October 2

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
October 2 Changchun Chinese: At a conference Chang-
chun enterprises engaged in the procurement of agricultural
products were accused of profiteering. Peasants were urged
to retain only food for their own use. Since the peasants
were dissatisfied at being forced to sell at present fixed
prices the Government was urged to raise prices.
October 8 Tokyo Japanese: It was stated by the
Minister of Agriculture that the rice crop of Japan was
greater than the preceding years.
October 6 Changchun: Prices in Manchukuo are 50 to
100 percent higher than in Jepen.
This telegram was signed by Thompson.
HENDERSON
DCA:IDB:MEB:SS

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.93)
ACA
4E
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
N
JMB
Chunglring via Karachi
This telegram must bE
paraphrased befors bEing
Dated Movember 4, 1942
communicated to anyonE
FROM
other than a Governmental
Rec'd 5.50 p.m.
agEncy. (R)
SecrEtary of StatÉ,
NOV 7 -1942
Washington.
File Fdew
ES
DIVISION OF COMMERCIALA
UMENT OF
OE
974.76/91
Octobér 7, noon.
894.76/95
FOR BOLRD OF ECOFO IC WARFARE.
1942
CS
Following is resune of Economic matarial Prom
2
JapanesE radio broaccasts fron SE tenbar 7 to October 19
obtained fror ChiussE ponitorin sErvices.
5
One. Bus lines anaugurated between Batavia  nd cther
important citits in Ja.a.
Two. Japancse civil and m.litary authoritise have
appointed civil Engineering su crvisors to supervise
PS
repair of hig ways and bridges in the Philippinso.
/LMB
Thret. Japanest troops in Yorth China, South
China and SingaporE maling remittancts to Japan wider
savings progral.
Four. Fapi in uhan area completely withdrawn;
Fapi to bE supplanted by Central REserve notes at
Kiukiang, Manchang, Shesi and other points in Central
Cina.
FivE.

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.91)
-2- #1275, Novenber 4, 4 pom. from Chungling via Karachi
FivE. JapanesE, Hanchurian, ChinesE, Longolian,
Thailand and Indochinc delegates to attend economic
confErencE at Tolyo at t E End of Tovember.
Six. Expsndituras for Establishiient of East Asia
Ministry totaled 13,748,000 yEn on SEptembEr 10.
SEven. Central China railway Company to pay  anling
REcimE 319,Oc0 as dividand on governient sharss cnd first
rental payiEnt, Ocntral China Electric Cormnunicataons
Company to pay 725, 0oo as Cavidend.
Eight. Lerger pt of ralayan budgst dEvoted to re-
construction. Recsipts c: E chiefly fror lanc tax other
sources of pivenut arr ronopolistic sals of opium and
wines and beep, stomp e ttlsritancs temes. ilatary
notes succtssfully circulatang. Sumatre to adopt similar
program.
Nine. JapanesE soldiers and studants to hel) farmers
during harvest time.
Ten. Japanasc to scel: revision Economic agrEEllent wit
Indochina in ths licht of Indochina's decision to enforce
barter systea in tradE vith Manchuria, Japan and Chine.
Eleven. JapanEss appeal for savings has resulted in
dEposits ExcsEdins 5,00,000 yEn.
TiElvE.

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.92)
-3- /1273, Noveaber , 4 p.n. fron Chungling via Karachi
TwelvE. JapanesE military institutE control oiEr
Philippines s'iippinc.
Thirteen. Yoliohane Sptcis Janl: and South Seas
Developnent Baik open nev branches in Bornco, rE-
construction activities still confined to planning.
Fourteen. JapanssE ilitar- take ovEr Dutch bank
in Jave with sixty-ue: En branches and placE under control
of Yokohana SpeciE Den.
Fifteen. anchuria has adopted measures to supply
Japen with increased emounts of foodstuffs, uuch as beans,
PicE anu V.cat.
Sixteen. Rius crop in Japan cstimated at 70,000,000
piculs, Korean hervest EstimatEd 15,e40,055 piculs,
Formosa approximatsly sems as last yeer. Shailand,
Indochine und purne will sxport surplus food products
to Japn.
Seventeen. FivE vEer Ha. iE and herpp production plan
in Philippinss nmouncsc by Japana se military.
Eighteen. Coilcge of petrolcun mining vith: three
years course Establish-d by Inperial University at Tokyo.
HineteEn. Ban: of Ohina and Sank of Conmnunications
branclies in Horth China to bE madE indEpendEnt.
TVEnty.

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.93)
-4- #1273, November 4, 4 p.m. from Chungking vie Karachi
Twenty.  Japan and Thailand concluds military,
postal and railway freight agreement.
Twenty-onE. Dancged brid es in Java havs bEen rE-
paired and raxlwaye have all resuaed traffic.
Twei.ty-two. Authoritaes plan inoreassd coal
prod.ction.
Twenty-threc. JEiying authorities issue re gulations
probibiting hoardi g of foreign neuicines.
Tuent -four. Frotincial authorities at Canton rule
all products Pren Heng ong covered by Hong Rong xport
peruit may bE aported vathout reference to provincial
aut:oritiss.
Tuenty-five. Tenling regime prohibits hoaraing of
food procucts by public Sunctionariss.
Thenty-sin. Pres trade in rice by merch.nts
prohibited by  enking municipel covarmment sstablashment
food products purchasing bureau.
Twent -saven. Jap meet Experts beng sent to Halaya
and Sumatra to increass feod production.
Twenty-Ei ht. Japanest military construct branch
railvay line Srom Sicolan on Peiping-Hanllow railvay west
to Han liver.
Tuenty-nine.

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.92)
-5- #1275, Hoveaber 4, 4 p.n. fron Chungking via Karachi
Twenty-nine. Telegraphic comnunic.tions between
HoulmEin and PEguin Surma rEsunEd.
Thirty. Tolkohama SpeciE Bank opEns ninE additional
brancics in Java.
Thirty-o.E. Withdravals of dEposits with Eneny banks
to bE permitted by JapanesE authorities at Batavia; notE
issue of those banlis vill bs pirnittec to circulate along
With JapanesE military notes.
Thirty-two. InsurancE conpaniEs to bE Established
in occupicd Chine, Java, Halaya, Burma and Philippines;
premiums to bE dEpositec vith South SEas Develop Ent
Ban!:.
G.USS.
ITI

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.93)
4N
DCA
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
AS
This tElegram must bE
211
closely paruphrasec bE-
Dated November 4, 1942
forE being communicated
CI/L
to anyonE. (SC)
RS
FROMc'd C :11 p.m.
SEcretary of StatE,
ES
6SR
Washington.
of State
430, HeVEmber 4, 5 p.m.
ous
JapanesE brcadcasts:
couference between reprssentatives of Lanchukuo and
LorEa opEned in Chang Chun on October 13.
874.76/96
Chang Chun, ChinEsE, October 1S: Humber of
rEcistared opium addicts in Chang Chun reduced from
894.76
50,000 to 7,000 in fivE Ears.
Chang Chun, ChinasE, October 1l: A compulsory
Labor law is to co into EffEct in Lanchukuo on January 1,
1043. ThE SEhEhusi SociEty plans t
to increasE number
DIVISION OF COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
of labor training schcols from 175 to 18u. Betveen
NOV 1 9 1942
studies students will bs Engaged in construction worl.
FILED
NOV10
Tokyo, Uarman, Cctober 22: The ChinesE Central
OF STATE
Bank in Hong Kong has announced that dEposits net
Confidential File
Exceeding 300 mey bs v.thdrawn.
PS/MNP
11-9-42
Tolyo, JapanssE, October 23: Jap Linister of
Agriculture states  an faces task of groving nore
rice vith less labor.
 This can bE achiEved by ExtEnsivE
usE of

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.95)
-2- #430, MovEmbEr 4, 5 P.m., from Loscov
use of achinery which ls possible only by croup famming.
Tokyo, JapanesE, October 23: ThE fivE-yEcr plan
for thE dEvelopment of Manchukuo will dEvote attEntion
to coal industry and agriculture, particularly to crowing
greater quantities of bEans and vheat.
Chang Chun, ChanEsE, Cctober 24: Hanchulkuo has
(Liaoyang?)
started building new read bEtveen Laoyan and Anshan.
Chan Chun, ChinEsE, October 25: A sEcond
nEvly-built blast furnacE as baen put into operation
at Bensihu. ThE overnment plans to build tvo more
thErE
HETDERSOT
JT

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.96)
Sutrib telt
B9W
Com.
PARAPHRASE OF TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FROM:
AMDMBASSY, MOSOOW
11/9142
mCQ
TO:
Seoretary of State, Washington
DATED:
November 4, 1942, 5 P.m.
NUMBER:
430
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
The following is a telegram concerning Japanese
brcadoasts.
October 13, Chang Chun, Chinese: On October 13
an economic conference was opened in Chang Chun between
representatives of Korea and Manchukuo.
October 13, Chang Chun, Chinese: In five years
the number of registered opium addiots in Chang Chun
has been reduced from 50,000 to 7,000.
October 11, Chang Chun, Chinese: On January 1, 1943,
a compulsory labor law is to go into effect in Manohukuo.
It is the plan of the Sehehue1 Society to inorease the
number of labor training schools from 175 to 188. The
students will be engaged in construction work between studies.
October 22, Tokyo, German: There has been announced
by the Chinese Bank in Hong Kong that deposits not exceed-
1ng $300 may be withdrawn.
October 23, Tokyo, Japanese: It 1s stated by the
Japanese Minister of Agriculture that the task of growing
more rice with less labor faces Japan. The extensive
use

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.97)
-2
1s
use of machinery can achieve this but it/possible only
through group farming.
Ootober 23, Tokyo, Japanese: Attention to ooal industry
and agriculture, partioularly to growing greater quantities
of beans and wheat will be given in the five-year plan
for the development of Manohukuo.
October 24, Chang Chun, Chinese: Manchukuo has
(Liaoyang?)
started building a new road between Anshan and Laoyan.
October 25, Chang Chun, Chinese: At Bensihu a second
new blast furnace has been put into operation; the build-
ing of two more there is being planned by the government.
HENDERSON
WB.
DCA:IDB:AMT:BS
11/6/42

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.95)
894.76
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Japanese propaganda:
Requests criticism or some indication as to what
would be useful in the reports on Japanese
894.76/97
broadcasts from atavia.
97
PS/MD
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
despatoh #5
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)
From
DatedOct. 26,1942
Batavia (Foote) at Melbourne)
1///
File No.
894.20200/7.
t一.

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.95)
894.76
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
General trend of Japanese radio propaganda:
894.76/98
Seem to have two purposes 1. To prove to the
natives of occupied territories that Japan is
their natural leader. 2. To prove to the Western
hemippheres that the natives of the occupied countries
have welcomed the Japanese with open arms.
PS/MD
ax
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
despatch #3
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, ela.)
From
Dated0ct.26.1942
Batavia (Foote) at Melbourne
kA/
File No.
894.20200/5.
. . GOVERNMNT PRNNG IC 1—1S40

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.94)
XEA
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
RCC
Chungking via KarachI
This telegram must be
paraphrascd before being
Dated Novomber 19, 1942
communicated to anyonc FRoM
other than a Governmental
Rec'd 2:42 p.m., 20th.
agency. (BR)
Rvision of
PAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Sccretary of State
89476
F5
Washington
Department of State
File Fdew
1350, November 19
9 a.m.
894.76/95
Embassy's 1273, Novomber 3, 4 p.m.
894.76/9
FOR BOARD OF ECONOMIC WARFARE.
Following is summary of cconomic matorial from
Japenoso radio broadcasts from October 5 to November
11 obtained from Chinese monitoring sorvices.
6
6
Onc. Japanose Ministor of Economic Affairs
urges incronse of production for our war.
Two. Military authoritics in Singaporo attempting
to incrcasc consumption of foodstuffs other than rico
Jile
in order to conserve latter.
83
Three. Central trae organization ostablished
P
S
Burma to control agriculture, forests and mines industry
F
Beur
and ccon my rehabitation. Japanese military and civil
P
Agri
authoritics and firms in Burma to maintain linison
Jhe
GLLa
with organ rogarding trading and shipping.
Four. Central Rescrve Bank Hankow branch continuing
exchango of reserve notes for fapi at Ichang,
Shasi,

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.95)
-2- #1350, November 19, 9 a.m., from Chungking via
Karachi.
Skasi, Nanchang and other places.
Five. Cable communications established
betwoen North China and soveral places in Phillipincs.
Additional telephonc communicntions ostablished
botweon Koren and Poiping, Tientsin and Shanhaikwan.
Six. Trade control organ being organized in
Malaya in connoction with return of large numbers
of Japanose traders.
Soven. Sovoral thousand tons of tobacco stored
at Xonal. woiting shipnent to Foumesn, Kwantung
and Jrna.
Jight. Iron prcluction in Manchurin being
inc ceved by I onkingtze Conl ne Iuon Mining Company.
Nine. Roconstrustion wri on Lionyun Harbor
(Kinnysu) to begin this month.
Ton. Indo-China nuthorities recuire registration
vith ncwly established Fereign Trade Association;
Japaneso firms heretofore registered with Export
and
Inport Association fjel additional rogistration
unnecessary.
Eleven. Japanosc ostablish currency exchange
organs in Mnlaya and Sumatra.
Twelve.

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.95)
-3-#1350, November 19, 9 a.m., from Chungking via Karachi.
Twolve. Telegraphic communication between
Hongkong and North China and Manchurin began on November
Thirteen, Trading between Philippines and Hongkong
has begun; Philippine products include sugar, cocoanut
oil, tobacco leaf and ramie; Hongkong products include
tea, cigorettos and papor.
Fourtecn. Groatur Enst Asia Ministry objectives
of ccononic recenstruction: in Manchuria-iron and
conl production nd sclf-sufficiency in nericulture;
in China-long pangs rccoastruction ; in South Sens-
exploitesi n I cil, rub r, tin, iron and other resource
Fittocn. Automobila in Horth China now using
charc al insto a ef cocolir.
-ix uen. sripuuilding proci m so bogin in Hongkong
this month: loerl matorials and 1 bor to be used in
construccion of wo olon motor ships.
Sevent on. Rapid prograss being made in development
of North Chino in ficlds of communications harbors,
iron manufacture ana conl mining.
Eightoon. Tolographic conmunicntions ostablished
betwcen Japen enc Eurmn.
Ninotoon. Circulation of fapi at Amoy prohibited
after

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-#1350, Novonber 19, 9 a.m., from Chungking via Karachi.
after Decomber 1.
Twenty. Japanese authorities at Hongkong announce
plen for reforestation, irrigation, cultivation and
increase of domestic animals in Kowloon.
Twenty-one. Telegraphic communications between
Hongkong and Rangoon ostablished November 10.
Twenty-two. Japanese extend cotton acreage in
Java
Twenty-three. Enemy alien propertics in Inter-
national Settlement to be cntrusted to Japaneso firms;
National City Bank building entrusted to Bank of
Formosa.
Twenty-four. Japanese and puppet nuthorities in
occupied arens sponsoring savings campaign.
GAUSS
MRM

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.93)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
DM
Changing via Karachi via N.h
This telegram rust bE
paraphrased before being
Dated Hovember 27, 1942
communicated to anyone FRom
other than a Governmental
REc11:55 p..
agency. (BR)
File
1n/40l/mm8
Secretary of State,
Division of
12/4/42
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Washington.
DEC1 1942
Department of State
1394, NovEmbEr 27, 10 a.m.
Embassy's 1350, fovember 19, 9 .
FOR BOARD OF ECOOMIC ARTARE
Following is a summary ox Economic material
fron JapanesE radio broadcasts from NovEmber 16 to
Noverber 21 obtained fron CninesE lonitoring services:
894.76/100
(1) Econonic conferencs for East Asic held Hovember
16 to November 18 to further Econollio collaboration
between Japan, Hanchuria, China and Mongolia. Dis-
894.76
cussions dealt vith agriculture, mining, comuodity
prices, tradE policies and industry.
(2) Japanege Governient is collecting nickel,
E. %.
copper, aluminus and brass coins which it will replace
PS
with lighter aluninum coins and paper notes.
/LMB
(3) South Sean Development Bank to open office
in Batavia.
DEC7 1942
..2. 0 (fild
F2LEE
(4) BurmesE
Meas.

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.97)
-2- #1394. NovEuber 27, 10 c.m. fron Chungking via Karachi
via N.R.
(4) BurnesE Minister of AgriculturE states
1942 ricE production ap roximetely four aillion tons
hunked ricE; therE is surplus of tiree villion tons
fron last yEar; that production of potatoes, corn
and cotton to bE incrEased;
that credit relief to
bE given to tenant far ers;
and that marinE fishing
vill bE EmphasizEd.
(5) Railvay transportation in Malaya and Sumatra
to bE coordinated by Establishlent of raily adminis-
tration officE in alaya.
(6) ExchangE of old fapi for nEv notes in Kiangsu,
Chekiang and Anhvei and in Shanghai and Hanking to bE
concluded by End of HovElber. After that datE usE
or possession fapi prohibited.
(7) Nanking regame to Establish comodity price
control bureau to control rapidly increasing commodity
prices.
(8)
JapanEsE Ministry of Econonics sponsoring
progran for Economy of ricE consumption in schools,
factories and aong farners.
(9) Peiping authorities Encouraging shipment of
foodstuffs to runicipal area due to increasing prices
of food and taking
steps to prevent hoarding.
(10) JapanESE

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.97)
-3- #1394, Nov Eaber 27, 10 a.m. from Chungking via Karachi
via N.R.
(10) Toromese caring steps to increasE trade
EuropEan GovErnmEnts South Seas and Hanchuria and
Central China; rubber and tin bEing imported into
Manchuria and soap, matches and papEr into Central
China fron South Seas.
(11) REvisEd EstinatE of 1942 ricE production
in Japan announced by JapanEsE Ministry of Agricul-
turE to bE 67,360,900 piculs.
GAUSS
WSB

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
LIAISON
FORMATION
DEC 4-1942
Department of State
FROM
NMC
Chungking via Karachi
This telEgram must bE
DatEd NovEmbEr 50, 1942
paraphrasEd beforE bEing
communicated to anyonE
other than a GovErnmentai yorec:d 8:41 a.m.
agency. (BR)
DFC 1- 1942
SEcrEtary of StatE,
Leivision of
FAR EASTEON AFFAIRS
Washington.
Department of State
ILMEDIATE
00
1402, NovEmbEr 30, 9 a.m.
394.76/101
Embassy has obtained rEport in ChinEsE tianslation
of speech macE last week by former JapanesE Envoy,
Kurusu, and broadcast y JapanEsE radio. If AaErican
monitoring sErvices havE not reported speech and if
Department desires copy thereof, Embasay will
prepare translation for forwarding via pouch
aER
upon recsipt of repariments nstinction
From ths Hage to that EffEct.
GAUSS
PS/SS
RDS

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.92)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
CORRECTED COPY
NTIC
Chungking vic Karachi
This telegram must bE
paraphrasEd bEforE bEiFRoM Dated NovEmber 30, 1942
communicated to anyonE
other than a Governmental
Rec1d 8:41 a.n.
cy. ()
SecrEtary of StatE,
MR. MUKNBELr
Division of
DE0 111942
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Washington.
las
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
2
F.W.
ILRIEDIATE
Department of State
Teligram
894.76/101
1402, HovEmbEr 30, 9 a.m.
12/1/42
Embassy has obtained report in ChinEsE translction
of speech made last week by foruer JapanesE cnvoy,
FW 894.76/101
Kurusu, and broadcast by JapanesE radio. If
American monitoring pErvicEs havE not reported
apeech nd if Department dEsires copy thereof,
Embaesy vill prepare trenslation for forwarding
vie pouch upon reccipt of DepartmentIs instruction
to that EffEct.
INTORMATION
LAISO
Fiee
G..USS
aC
RDS
aupy in 1n
NITERNITIONAL N
DEC 15 1942
PS/MNP

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.90)
101
RGFFICE
TELEGRAM SENT
PARTAM
"Brown" PLam
Department:
Department of State
Fult rate
Day letter
Night letter
Washington.
Charge to
s
December 1, 1942
AMEMBASSY,
CHUNGKING, (CHINA).
11/7
Reference your 1402, November 30, 9 a.m.
Only Domei abridgment in English of Kurusu's speech
1s available here. Please forward by pouch copy in trensla-
894.76/101
tion of version available to you.
Wull
mse
PS/HCW
2
2008
RSSA
C1/Lgke
FE:MWB:MLS/MJF
FE
PA/H
CA
SA
Enctphared by
Sost by aparater
M.,
19

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.93)
Sivision of
TELEGRAM RECEIVEFAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
BCA
DC181942
Depe  cr
PMW
FROM
Moscow
This tElegram must bE
closEly paraphrasEd bE-
Dated DEcember 2, 1942
forE bEing communicated
Rec'd 4:39 a.me, 3rd
CaM
SEcretary of State,
00
Washington.
mfd.
€94.76/102
514, DEcEmbEr 2, 0 .n.
MAR 12 J4J
FO BOARD OF ECOORIC WARFARE.
JapanesE Lroadcasts.
Chang Chun ChinesE OctobEr 27: According to
sEcond FivE YEar Plan for thE Colonization of
Manchuluo 10,O00 KorEan familiEs will bE sEttlEd
there Each year.
な：
Tokyo ChinEsE OctobEr 2: REsEarch ExpEdition
S
0ss
has discovErEd coal dEposits in thE Utaishan
/LMB
Mountains in Chansi Estirated to bE grEatEst in China.
Tokyo Italian hovEmber 3: SalE of war loan
stamps in Japan s:1d to tvE bEEn 5,000,000 yEn
DEC 2 3 1942
1n JunE, 15,000,000 yEn in Ju1y and 13,000,000
in OctobEr. GovErnmEnt plans to sE11 150,000,000.
Chang Chun ChinEsE NovEmber 9: Government
is Endeavoring to promotE popular movements against
fidential File
speculation which public prosecutor states is
obstructing fulfillment of plans to supply the
population

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.97)
#514, DEcEmbEr 2, 6 p.m., from Moscow.
population with provisions. CrimE is said to havE
incrEasEd becausE of shortagE of goods.
Tokyo Italian NovEmber 1l: A dam across
the Sungari RivEr in Manchukuo has bEEn camplEtEd.
It will makE possiblE irrigation of 60,000
hEctarEs of land and construction of largEst
powEr station in thE world.
Tokyo English NovEmber 13: StatE loan
bonds and sEcuritiE in circulation on October 1
was 6,581,000,000 yE,  incrEasE of 1,043,000,000
yen over October last yEar.
Chang Chun ChinE SE ovEmbEr 19: AuthoritiEs
of North China havE dEcidEd to closE all banks
having a basic capital i 1Ess than 500,000
yuan.
HE NDE RS ON
MRII

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.96)
BEw
OSS
Treas
Con
12/4/42
PARAPHRASE OF TELEGRAM RECEIVED
mEQ
M15/12/8/42
FROM:
AMEMBASSY, MOSCOW
ON/ Ju-h:dn
TO:
Secretary of State, Washington
DATED:
December 2, 1942, 6 p.m.
NUMBER: 514
FOR BEW
The following is in reference to Japanese broadcasts.
November 19 Chang Chun Chinese: Authorities of
North China have decided to close all banks having a
basic capital of less than 500,000 yuan.
Chang Chun Chinese October 27: According to second
Five Year Plan for the Colonization of Manchukuo 10,000
Korean families will be settled there each year.
Tokyo English November 13: State loan bonds and
securities in circulation on October 1 was 6,581,000,00 yen,
an increase of 1,043,000,000 yen over October last year.
Tokyo Italian November 3: Sale of war loan stamps
in Japan said to have been 5,000,000 yen in June,
15,000,000 yen in July and 13,000,000 in October. Gov-
ernment p1ans to sell 150,000,000.
Tokyo Italian November 1l: A dam across the Sungari
River in Manchukuo has been completed. It will make
possible

=== Page 351 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
possible irrigation of 60,000 hectares of land and con-
struction of largest power station in the world.
Chang Chun Chinese November 9: Government is
endeavoring to promote popular movements against specula-
tion which public prosecutor states is obstructing ful-
fillment of plans to supply the population with provisions.
Crime is said to have increased because of shortage of
goods.
Tokyo Chinese October 26: Research expedition has
discovered coal deposits in the Utaishan Mountains in
Shansi estimated to be greatest in China.
HENDERSON
S:FED
TDB:MLM
12/4/42

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.93)
whij
PREPARING OFFICE
TO BE TRANSMITTED
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
(Fuil rate
TELEGRAM SENT
SECRET
Collect Day letter
Night letter
Charge Department:
Department of State
Full rate
Day lett
"SC"
Night lefter
This oable wae sent in ronf, ent'al Code.
Washington,
It shou
Charge to
..
SC
March
a1, 1943.
4 pm
THOMPSON,
AMERICAN EMBASSY,
894.76/102
MOSCOW.
132
Department'8 77, February 10, 5 p.m.
BEw requests report on progress made regarding
Japanese broadcast data.
Weller actirs
954
894.76/102
PS/HCW
652
ILP
Eu: GFR: LS
FE
cin
mm/
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
19

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
MEMORANDUM
February 6, 1943
Mr. G. Chaput of the Board of
Economic Warfare called to ask me if it
would be possible to arrange for more
frequent material from the Soviet monitor-
ing of Japanese radio broadcasts which
are being received through the Embassy in
Mosoow. Mr. Chaput said that this material
had been intermittent and at rather long
intervals. He also asked that we endeavor
to obtain from the Soviet authorities a
list of the Japanese stations especially
home broadcasts which are heard in the
Soviet Union. He said this information was
desired in order to permit Federal Communi-
cations Commission to check against the
stations which they are able to monitor in
the United States since there may be some
Japanese stations which could be monitored
but of which we are unaware.
I promised that we would take up the
matter with the Embassy in Moscow.
Eu: CEBohlen: EB

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.91)
894.76/102
TRANITTED
PREPARING OFFICE
VILL INDICATE WHETHEN
TELEGRAM SENT
SECRET
Full rate
Day letter
GONPIDENTIAL
Night letter
Charge Department:
Department of State
GLEAT
Full rate
BARTAIR
Day letter
Night letter
Washington.
TEOP
Charge to
February
1943
THOMPSON,
AMERICAN EMBASSY,
834.76/1
MOSCOW.
Your 514, December 2, 6 p.m., and previous.
One. The Board of Loonomic Warfare is anxious to
obtain more frequent and more extensive material of
02
this nature if possible.
Two. A list of the Japanese stations, especially
home broadcasts with wave lengths and schedules, which
c161
ARE
sheuld be in the Soviet Union is also desired in order
AUDIBLE
to verify extent of coverage by our monitoring service.
Hull
924
C.
2
Jonfidential File
OR OR
S
H3
6/iCL
FEF
a
lours 120
101943PU
FE
EU: 0EB 1 EB
mm!/
Enciphered by
Sant by operater
M..
19
10-00000-1

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.97)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 711
Chungking, China, November 4, 1942
Subject:
Transmission for Board of Economic
Warfere of Economic Material from
Japanese Radio Broadcasts Obtained
from Chinese Monitoring Services.
Com
Bn
DCA
Reo, Dosk
PHe-C.B W.
DEC 11 1942
EED
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
894.76/103
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to my despatch no. 610 of
September 10, 1942, and to my telegrans no. 1146 of
October 7, 12 noon, and no. 1273 of November 4, 3 p.m.,
forwarding for the Board of Economic Warfare economic
materiel from Japanese radio broadcasts obtained from
1/
Chinese Government monitoring services, and to transmit
herewith for the Board of Economic Warfare a translation
of further economic material of the above-described nature.
PS/TL
This material has served as the basis for the two telegrams
under reference.
Due to the discontinuance of the monitoring service
reports formerly issued by the CENTRAL NEWS AGENCY, the
amount of material obtainable has been decreased. The
reports of the Information Department of the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs are received at irregular intervals and
contain material for several weeks preceding: some of the
items reported by telegraph do not, therefore, represent
current materiel.
Respectfully yours,
C. E. Gauss
Enclosure:
1/ Translation of Economic Material from Japanese
Radio Bradcasts, as described above.
Original and four copies to the Department
850 BEW
PDS/gws

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.98)
3sure No. 1 to Despatch No. 71l dated November 4, 1942
from American Embassy at Chungking
Tokyo, Aug. 26 - The Nippon Kogyo Ginko announced on
Aug. 25 that the North China Development will issue bonds
amounting to 30,000,000. This wil1 be the 27th issue
bearing an interest of 4) per annum. Thc capital will be
paid for in 22 years. - Domei.
(2)
Manila, Aug. 27 - The Fhilip ine Branch of the South
Seas Development Bank started operation in July. It has
now enlarged the scope of its activities and has succeeded
the Bank of Formosa as a representative of Japanese banks
in P.I. In order to furnish funds to local industrialists,
it has begun to extend loans to Japanese engaging in mining
and spinning industries. The Bank is also authorized to
exchange new military notes for old ones and also to issue
military notes in smaller acnominations. - Domei. -
(3)
Canton, Seut. 1 - T Regulations Trohibiting the Cir-
culation of Old Fapi of t e local authorities begin to take
effect today. Accordin. to these Roculations, all old fapi
shall not be used in the aren under jurisuiction of the
"Kwan tung Provincial covernment" bo innin Jeptember 15. -
Domei.
(4)
Tokyo, Sept. 3 - The Yomiuri Shimbun has it that the
eight large bants in Tokyo are plannint to stablish jointly
a new bank in Horth China in oruer to romote economic re-
construction in the Greas ast sia Co-prosperity Circle.
Theso banks at Lirst desireu to open branches in various
large cities in north Chine, but have now changed the plan
to open a joint bank. Phe  banks re: Mitsui, Mitsubishi,
Dai Ichi, Sumitomo, Yasuae, Homure, una ther banks. - Domei.
(5)
Bangkok, Auc. 31 - 
, a Pheilana oil tanker,
arrived nere on Au. 3) from
with
tons
of oil. This is the first tanrer arrived in Thailand since
the outbreak of the Great ast sia ar. It vill continue
to make shipments nerearter.
(6)
Singapore, ug. 31 - The aredging of sunk vessels in
Singapore Harbor has be n in progress f or several months
under te uiaance of sea-navigation experts of the military
ana civil ors ns of alaya. ince June 6 and up to date,
20 motor launches, 35 motor boats and 39 large sail boats
have been dredged, most of hich are being repaired and
will be available for use. After dredcing, obstacles under
water that may endan er steamers entering the harbor have
practically all been removed.
(7)
Hsingking, Sept. 4 - The Manchuria Coal Mines learned
through investigations that the coal for refining iron pro-
duced in Hsing Lung Coal Mines in Jehol Frovince is of excel-
lent cuality and that the latter coal mine has 350,000,000
tons of coal undeveloped.  Hsing Lung Construction Bureau
has specially been organized for takin: positive stops to
develop the saia coal mine.
Manila

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
Manila, ept. 4 - In the first year of the 5 year cotton
production plan in the P.I., i.e. the present fiscal year,
areas of land devoted to production of cotton are as follows:
Negros 6,O00 acres, Luzon and part of Mindanao 6,000 acres,
totalling 12,Ooo Japanese acres. It has recently been decided
to increase 6,ooo acres on Luzon and the cotton producers of
Negros shall do the planting.
(9)
Shanghai, Se t. 4 - After the outbreak of the Great East
Asia War, the highest commanding ofricer of the Japanese Army
in Shanghai claimeu that enterprises of "enemy" nationalities
under the control of J: panese troops ...... were on March 28
and May 28 entrusted to the people for operation. There have
been l60 cases. The Horth China Liaison Offico of the Asiatic
Development Board has just, made a second announc ement to turn
over 170 factories heretofore under the lirect control of
Japanese troops to the cople, thus brir in the total number
of factories turned over to the people for oper tion to 2lo.
(10)
Manila, sopt. 8 - Phe military mnd civil muthorities have
ap roved of the reopenin: of the ollege of .riculture of the
University of Phili pines ut Los  nos in view of the import nce
of acriculture in the IThilippine Islande. Jince the University
i not ader uately o uip el, it as been aecided to ensage fomous
a ricultural scholars in Jn or ofesr re. Ho, the a ricul-
tural productivity of the i.I. is only 3o. o that of Jepun.
Vith  view to increasine the productivity of the .I. to the
same level as Japan, methods of u ueation are being imoroved to
achieve agriculturol development in t e philippines.
(11)
Singapore, Sept.  - The south seas Dovelopnent sunl. began
to fune tion in sin pore on e t. 1. Th development of
resources suidenly becomes nctive. It has just been aecided
thnt similer bonks will be estoelished in sumatre. In the near
future, however, the Yokohana pecie Sank at rolemban will
tomporarily perform the duties of such banks.
(12)
Sourabaye, Sept. 16 - The match industry in Java was
formerly operated by Dutch people. There is only ono match
factory at sourabaya, pr aucing only lo, oo small cases a month.
Java Was in the past relyine on imported matches to meet the
needs. The Jupanese authorities have placed the factory under
military control. very effort is being made to adjust the
machinery and ecuipment. at resent, it is producing 500,000
small cases a month - five times the uantity produced before
the war. The authorities are planning to distribute these
ma tches to the civilians for their use.
(13)
Shanghai, Sept. 18 - Since the Central Trust, the "flying
column" of the Cent ral Bank of China t Chungking, was sealed
by the Japanese Army in January, 1942, it has been placed under
military control. is the hostile nature is conspicuous, it is
now decided to licuidate the Central Trust. A letter was
addressed to its responsible officer on Sept. 14 informing him
of the Japanese decision. The liquidation of the Central Trust
will be handled by the Shanghai Branch of the Yokohama Specie
Bank.
IIongkong

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.97)
.-3-
Hongkong, Sept. 18 - Trade between Hongkong and Kwangtung
Province was resumed in August. Similar relations are gradually
restored between Hongkong and Japan and between Hongkong and
other parts of China. On Sent. 18, the Governor of occupied
Hongkong issued the following order as fundamental policies for
control of trade:
1. No free trade in Hongkong. ll transactions shall be concen-
trated in the control organ - Hongkong Trade Union.
2. As a distinction between trade in a ceneral sense and trade
in South China, the former shall be limited to members of
the Trade Union while the la tter may be ermitted to carry
on freely.
(15)
Luching, Sept. 19 - Communications between citios in Borneo
are relying on sea navition. fhererore, sea navigation cons-
titutes an important uestion in ti dovelopment of industries.
The military author ities in sorneo have decided to increase the
number of navigation rout es and a uresu has been formally
established (in the afternoon of sept. 1s). Tol io Mikuria has
assumed office as irector of the sureau.
(16)
Nanking, Sept. 19 - The "Ministry of Finance" of the "National
Government" issued an instruction on u. o yromulcating a set
Of "FROVISIOAL REGULLTIO  FON T CO.TROL OF AMNIHG IHSTITUTIONS!
Since then, all banks and native bunks in the provinces of Kiangsu,
Chekian and Anhwei and the special municipalities of Nanking and
Shanchai have been ut unuer strict control of the "Hational
Government". The "D L RUL R E  RCET" of the
above Regulations wore romulgated on sept. 19, effective imme-
diately. From now on, the aministrative ower of the "Central
Reserve Bank" will be stron thened considerably.
(17)
Saigon, Sept. 31 - The Indo-China conomic ureau has been
considering the enforcement of barter system in trading with
Manchukuo, Korea and China. This has of late been decided that
this rinciple applies to all commod itie hipped to Ianchukuo,
Korea and China. In actually carryin out this project, the
Bureau adopts "imports first" systom so as to insuro the importa-
tion from Lanchukuo, loren and China of cotton  iece oods,
chemicals and metallic roducte which are badly needed in Indo-
China. Unless these   pods are uctually shipoed by the countries
concerned and actually arrive at Sai on and Haiphong, the Bureau
will not permit the shipment of export products. The Bureau
prescribes the following oods for barter:
(Imports) Cotton thread, cotton cloth, fibre products, iron, copper
aluminum, lubricating oils, medicine, chemicals.
(Exports) Coal, rubber, coffee, pepper, tea, utta-percha, and
lumber.
In fact, it is considered that the trade needs botween Indo-
China and the three countries in uustion can not be satisfied
by barter system. So it is necessary to make adjustment in
exchanging products between countries in the Great Last Asia
Co-prosperity Circle.
Batavia

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
Batavia, ept. 7 - The Communications Board has inaugurated
bus lines between Batavia and other important cities in Java
for the convenience of the people. These lines have now been
extended to suburban districts of the cities. Beginning Sept.l0
there ill be bus service between Batavia and Pan Te Geh Lan via
Serang - a total length of 123 kilometers, taking 4 hours to make a
single trip.
(19)
Manila, Sept. 7 - The Japanese civil and military authorities
have approved the appointment of civil engineering supervisors
for all 44 states of the Philippines to supervise the repairing
of highways and bridges destroyed or damaged by war.
(20)
Peking, Sept. 7 - Our (the Japanese) troops maintaining peace
in North China have achieved successful results in savings. By
refraining from go ing to mov ies and tea houses, they have saved
over 250,0o0 yen - espeaially Takahahi unit who, up to the end
of aug., saved 15, oo0. The last named unit is enforcing a
system of 8o of pay and expects to have a total saving of over
20,000 yen this year.
Singapore, Sept. 8 - Our (Jep.) solliers are not paying the
slihtest attention to attractive oods in the show rooms of
luxurious shops. They have determined to save every cent
possible. Comander
iscued instructions to his men on Sept.
i reminding them of the c ni itions in the rear and calling their
attention to the fuct thnt to stren then the rear economically
has an important beoring on fi htin: at front. Even without such
admonitions, many coldiers sent aoroad before the outbreak of
the Great East sia mar have savea mounta exceeding 1,Ooo yen
each. The local post office has receiven depo its amounting to
a total of 1,47o, 00o yen. In adnition more then s0,000 yen has
beun romittod to Ju n.
Canton, seyt. lo - To echo the savings movement in the rear,
soldiers in various local tier ure very cnthusiastic in making
savings. Very recently, statistics for 194l have been compiled
showing that the South China Iost Office received from April, 1941
to March 1942 a total of 10,045,000 yen and hanaled remittances
to Japan amourtin to 4,802, 000 yen. Savings in June shows slight
decrease owing to war - 449,000 yen
(21)
Hankow, Sept. 12 - Old fapi in Vuhan area have been success-
fully witharawn. The "uinistry of Finance of the Hational Govern-
ment" has decided to exchange old fapi for new fapi at Kiukiang,
Nanchang, Shasi and Yingcheng beginning Sent. 16, in order that
the Reserve notes may be circulated in Central China.
(22)
The 1942 meeting of the East Asia Economic Discussion Group
will be held in Tokyo on Nov. 26-28. In addition to the Japanese,
Manchurian, Chinese, and Monrolian delegates, there will also be
delegates from Thailand and Indochina as well as other countries
in the ast Asia o-prosperity Circle. Discussions will be
centered upon the reconstruction of the Co-prosperity Circle.
Sept. 19

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
Sept. 19 - It as decided on Sept. 18 that expenditures for
establishment of the ast sia Ministry totalled 13,748,000 yen,
made up as follows:
Regular expenditures of the Ministry
659,000 yen
Expenditures for branc hes
3,276,000 yen
Transportation ...............
36,000 yen
Building expenses ....
208,000 yen
Subsidies to other organs
2,716,000 yen
Emigration & overseas exenses
591,000 yen
Temporary family allovance
478,000 yen
Rewards.
5,000 yen
Other temporary expenditures
4,759,000 yen
(24)
Nanking, Sept. 18 - The Central China Railway Co. should
pay to the "National Government" 819,000 as dividends on govern-
ment shares for 1940 and 194l and the first rental payment. The
Central China Electric Communications Company should pay 725,000
as the 3rd and 6th period dividends on vovernment capital. Both
sums have been remitted to the "Ministry of Finance" for trans-
mission to the "National Government".
(25)
The characteristic feature of Malaya fi ance is the expenses
for reconstruction occupying an importnt part in the budget -
such expenses are for increase of foou roanction, development of
resources, resumption of transportation, sanitary activities,
police, education, ete. he receipts are land tax which is the
most important, and susiness tax, utomooil tax. The monopolistic
sale of opium and wines and tihe beer tax, stmp tax, inheritance
tax are also s urces of income. In the near future, the tariff
system vill also be resumeu.
sumatra will follow the elmaple of Maluya. Before the war,
there were many taxes such as roac tax, company tax, income tax,
ostal tax, poll tax. djustment vill be maue in those Dutch
taxes.
In the past, the income of Malaye vas used chiefly for paying
covernment personnel. At present, it ill be used to defray
expenditures in reconstruction activities.
Military notes are successfully circulateu in Malaya. With
Yokohama Specie leading, there are three banks financing the
development of resources - the other two being Formosa and south
China Banks. Chinese banks were on pril 28 permitted to reopen.
uick financial adjustments have helped Malaya and Sumatra to
avoid the hih rise of prices and inflntion of currency. Although
the prices are now high, they are not so high from t e viewpoint
of local conditions. is soon as the rosources are developed to a
reasonable level, such a state of affairs will eutomatically
cease to occur.
(26)
Sept. 23. The good harvest this year is unprecedented in
recent years, cspecially rice which alone harvested 70 million
piculs. This is naturally helpful to the war effort. As a result
of discussions between Premier Tojo and the Ministers of Education
and Agriculture, more soldiers and enlisted men will be called to
help the farmers in all parts of the country (the Ministries of
War and Navy sometime ago ordered 8 units of troops in the interior
of Japan to assist). The Ministry of Education has also decided to
mobilize

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
ilize all students in the country to extend help. The Japanese
rmy and Navy will, on the condition that war effort is not to be
affected, allow soldiers and enlisted men a certain period of home
leave to enable them to help farmers. Concrete measures will be
devised by the authorities concerned.
(27)
Saigon, Sept. 25 - Japanese Consul General at Saigon interview-
ed the press today and stated that in the next year Article 15 of
the economic agreement will have to bo revised. The agreement as
it stands only stipulates certain changes regarding export of rice
from Indochina and regarding export of products from Japan. A
general change will be made next year. The agreement was concluded
before the Great ast sia ar.  ow the Ministry of Great East
Asia will soon come into being.
The agreement should therefore be
revised.
Sept. 25. Accordin to nes from a on, the Gaimusho is
making a careful stuay of the decision of the Indochina conomic
Bureau to enforce barter system in trading with Manchukuo, Japan and
China. This new system, if oniorced, is worth attention. The
Japano-Indochina trade relations have improved after the conclusion
of the agreement of May 6, 194l. In the absence of any agreements
between Indochina and Manchukuo, Iwantung and China, it is generally
considered that the Indochina author ties will auopt this barter
system to insure imnorts from without. But this system can not be
carried out to satisfaction by one sidc. o the Gaimusho considers
it necessary to reconsider the matter. Hegotiutions are being
conducted and a satisfact ry decision is expected.
(28)
Sept. 30. Premier Tojo brpudcast on Sept. 3o a speech lauding
the people for the ir help to the covernment in that the deposits
have exceeded the expecteu total of 5oo million yen. He laid
stress on the investment needed for developing the resources and
for mobilizing manpower in reat ast sia. In conclusion, he
expressed tre hope that all Japanese nationals Would continue to
depos it savings with redoubled enthnsiasm.
(29)
Manila, Oct. 1 - The Thilipnine ilitary dministration has
established a I.I. Sea Havigation ociety. n instruction has been
issued today. It is thereby determined that all vessels in .I.
(except fi shing boats belongin~ to fishing organs which have
obtained  ermission from the military authorities and vessels for
military use) above 20 tons and those under 2o tons which use fuels
shell be overned by that instruction.
(30)
Huching, Oct. 2 - In adiition to the branches at Kuching, Miri,
Sandakan, and Jesse ton, the Yokohama Specie ank opened on Sept. 10
a branch at Sibu. On Oct. 1, the south Seas Development Bank
attached to the kuching branch began to func tion. it present,
reconstruction activities in Borneo are still confined to prepara-
tions and there is not much need for funds. ut a reat many
reconstruction plans recuire prompt enforcement. The burden of the
South beas Development ank is therefore daily increasing.
(31)
Batavia, Oct. 3 - The local military authorities have taken
over Aanneming Volks
Ban!: and have today changed its name
to Yokohama pecie Bank. The bank has 67 branches in various
localities in Java.
Hsingking

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
Hsingking, Oct. 4 - Minister Hwang of the Ministry of
Industry and Agriculture stated on Oct. 4 that the present war
in certain respect was a war of food stuffs; that the "government"
has following the outbreak of war exerted efforts to devise means
of self-support and has taken positive measures to supply Japan;
that emergency measures have been taken to increase production of
crops of which beans, rice and wheat have achieved expected
results - especially beans for Japan; and that tne "government"
is doing everything possible to make rural districts prosperous.
(33)
Oct. 5. It is estimated that rice in Japan vill harvest
approximately 70 million piculs - about 10 million piculs more
than the harvest of last year. The Governor of Korea has announced
the estimate made on September 2) of r ce harvest in Korea this
year to be 15,440,053 p culs. Formosa is more or less tho same as
last year. Owing to increasing proiuetion within Formosa, however,
the tendency is that the uant ty
for supplying J pan proper is
gradually decreasing. The good harvest in Japan is neverthcless
sufficient to make up such def cit. The adoption of new distribu-
tion system for rice, wheat, potat pes and other cereals has
adjus ted cons umption of these food products. o te future is
rather ontimistic. Cooperation of army and naval authorities is
expected in order to obtain supplies of rice from South Seas. The
peoples of Thailand, Indochina and Burma are willing to assist
Japan by exporting their surplus food roducts.
(34)
Manila, Oct. 5 - The 5-year ramic and hemp production plan has
been announced by the local military euthorities. t present,
2,ooo acres of Mindanao are dovoted to r duction of ramie. n
increase of 500 acres wi11 be made in 1942, nna the total of 2, 500
acres will produce 960,000 catties of ramie. Hext year, the area
will be increasea to 3,000 acres; the third year to 4,00o acres;
the fourth year to 5, 5ó0 acres; and tne fifth year (1946) to
15, 000 acre: which will bo ablé to pr auce 4 million catties. The
ramie harvesteu will be use to meet too neens of spinnin: cotton
piece coods.
As re aras hemp, the Litsui und ituubishi Companies will
plant it on LMinaanao. In the rirst year, 194n, tiy ill try 20
acres; the second year 100 acres; the thiru year 1,000 acres; fourth
year 2,000 acres; and the rifth year 4,000 scres.
It is also decideu tnat a rhilippine emp Iroauction ssocia-
tion vill be establ ished to supervise the eniorcoment of the plan.
The iscoc ation will be put unier the local military authorities.
(35)
The Imperial University will establish a new college of petro-
leum minin. This college  ill have t o schools: petroleum mining
and petroleum refining. Both schools v ill tate 3 years for a
student to gracuate.
(36)
Teking, Uct. 10 - Through the mediation of the authorities
concerned, the ank of China and the Bank of Communications have
decided to make their branches in north Uhina independent. Both
banks are ma intaining large number of branches and will be helpful
to the improvement of the con itions of the money market in north
China.
Bangkok

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.95)
-8-
Bangkok, Oct. 1l - The Japanese and Thailand joint force
has announced today the conclusion of a military postal and
railway freight agreement as follows:
"The Japanese and Thailand troops, with a view to attain
the common goal of war, have long ago started ne otiations
concerning the conclusion of a postal agreement and a
railway frei ht agreement. The tio agreements have today
been concluded ano signed."
The text of the ostal arreement follows:
Article 1. Thailand shall handle mail matter postec by Japanese
military at places adopting Japanese mail system and aidressed to
the Japanese nationals in Thciland.
Article 2. Thailand shall hanale meil matters addresesd by
Japanese nationals in Thailani to the J panese militury at laces
adoptina Japanese mail uystem. (In this cnse Jupan shell pay
postage charges to Thailand).
Article 3. This rreemont snail tane effect on the date it is
LGd.
(38)
Batavia, Oct. 13 - brii awmape by utch troops have all
been repaired. ailwuys connectine utavia, sandoene, sumarang,
and Sourabaya as well as other lar  cities have all resumed
trafric. Both oous und assun or trar ic ill be  onsiderably
improvea throu h tre c ntralizel co trel of tranep ortation be in-
nine et. le by the Lond Fraemport tion ure u.
(39)
ankin, vet. 9 - ith a viow to increasine coal prpuuction,
the north China au th rities ha ve u ec iully oviseu plane teerofor.
(40)
Foking, bet. 9 - The puryou of rublic health has iesued an
ins truc ti on strictly prohibitirg th, hoarsing  forei n me icine
by merchante. those violatine this i utruc bion  ill b aealt with
accorlin" to militury law.
(41)
Cuton, Det. 9 - In orler to levelop Hon kong-i n tung trade,
the "provincial overnment" as rulel that all ro uets from
Eongkon coverea by excort pemit iseued by Hon kone authorities
may be importel without a tten ine to the formol: ties with
provincial authorities.
(42)
Hanking, Oct. 14 - The "xecutive Yuan" has received a etition
from the "Food Control Sureau" to the effect that a cireular ins-
truction has been issued prohibitin the hoarding of food products
by public func tionaries.
(43)
Nanking, Oct. 14 - the "Food ro ucts Com ittee" and the
Ilankine Municipal Government", for the purchase of rice and
other grains as well as the distribution thereof, have established
a "Food Froducts Furchasing ureau". Seginnin: today, rice
purchasing vermits will be issued to the eople and the free trade
in rice by merchants will be prohibited.
Singapore

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.98)
-9-
Singapore, Oct. 16 - With a view to enabling Malaya and
Sumatra to become agriculturally self-support, experts will be
transferred from Japan to take charge of the work of increasing
food production.
45)
Hankow, Oct. 17 - The engineering corps of Japanese troops
started cons truction of a bran ch line of the Peiping-Hankow
Railway in central Hupeh in February this year.  It has now been
nine months. The construction wor nave been completed today.
This bran ch line is from Siaokan westward to the bank of the Han
River and has a length of 31 kilometers.
(46)
Rangoon, Oct. 17 - 1roduction anu communication conditions
in Burma are gradually returning to normal. The tolegraph
authorities have decided to resume tele raphic comunications
between Moulmein and Pegu on Oct. 21.
(47)
Batavia, Oct. 17 - The Yokohama   cie Bank has decid ed to
onen branches at the followine places busides the three already
Lediri. Malang and
Jilatjap, Lagelang,
Jember.
(48)
Batavia, Oct. 19 - Tne militury md civil authorities will
is sue a proclamation tomorrow to o everything possible to allow
the local people as well as hinese residents to withdraw their
deposits with the "enemy" banks  hich have been sealed. Notes
issued by former banks in Java mill erearter be vermitted to
circulate like Jaoanese military notes. The authorities will
also meko efforts to helr the looal benes.
(49)
 total o: 15 insurance companios vill be opened in China:
7 in central China, 5 in north China ana 3 in south Uhina. In the
South Seas, there will be 4 in Java, 4 in Malaya, 2 in Burma and
2 in U lebe. The premium received vill be deposited with the
South Soas Dovelopment Bank.
(True copy:
(Campared:

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.97)
FAN EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEC 2 6 1942
GM
Depa. tment of State
Kuibyshev
This telegram must be
closely paraphresed be-
Dated December 18, 1942
fore being communicated
to anyone. (SC)
FROM
Rectd 11 a.m., 19th.
DEC 2 9 1942
sécretary of State,
Fite Fdew
Washington.
(Sectin 1)
1114, December 18, 10 a.m.
FOR BOARD OF ECONOHIC VARFARE
The following summaries have been received from
Thompaon in Moscow: Japanese broadcasts.
Tokyo, Japanese November 23: Prime Minister Tojo
894.76/104
states that crop yields for the past season exceed
194l production but complains that the efforts of the
76
peasantry are still insufficient. He points out that
under war conditions great quantities of raw materials
and supplies are necessary and demands that the
population put every effort to achieve victory.
DEC 31 1942
Tokyo, Japanese, November 25: Methods of increasing
FILED
industrial production were discussed at a conference
DIVISION OF GOMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
ass
held yesterday in the Ministry for Greater Eastern Asia.
EC211942
Improved output of raw materials, particulartly increased
Casysstial File
coal production in Hokkaido, and the mining of minerals
in Central China were considered.
Peiping, Chinese, November 30: It is reported from
Hongkong that beginning December 1 postal comaunications
will be reestablished petween Hongkong and the occupied
regions of China.
DOOMAN.
USB

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVEDhev
(Meacow)
HRL
This telegram must
closely paraphrased be-
Dated December 18, 1942
fore being communicated
to anyone. (SC)
Rec'd 12:18 asm., 20th
FROM
Division of
Secretary of State,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Vashington,
DEC 2 6 1942
Department of State
1114, December 18, 10 a.m. (SECTION Te)
Chanchun, Chinese, Hovember 29: One. An economic
conference for Eastern Asia, attended by more than 500
delegates from Japan, Lanchukuo, China, and Fongolia,
FW 894.86/104
was held in Tolyo Tovember 26-27. The conference
F.W.
noted that great progress in the economic development
of these countries had. been made since the outbreak of
894.76
104
war. Close relations between the countrios represented
are essential for the future.
Two. Confcrences were hold on Novembor 21 in a
to：
Bew
number of provinces of Eastern lanchuria to consider
oS S
DIVISION OF GOMMERCTAL AFFAIRS
agri
Maeans of attracting agricultural produce to the rarkets.
This year's crops in anchuria are no worse than last
E
0
yoars.
221942
PS
Changchun, Chinese. November 30: Tho income tax
/Gonfidential File
on restaurants, cafes, and various amusement enter-
prises in Manchukuo is increascd as of December 1.
Tokyo, Japanese. Decombor 1: One. The Privy Council
today cave final approval to the troaty of aid with
Thailand

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.98)
-2- 1114, December 18. 10 a.m.. (SECTION TWO) from (Moscow)
Kuibyshev
Thailand.. The friendly union between Japan and
Thailand grows strongor every day. We already havo
treaties of mutual assistance and cultural collaboration
with Thailand.
Two. It is reported from Batavia that regular postal
sorvice betwoen Java and Sumatra is establishod as of
Docember 1.
Three. Harvesting has been finished in Morthern
Japan and the peasants are paying off their debts. In
their freo timo thoy must now work in nearby shops and
factories like peasents in othor districts.
Changch, Chinoso, November 29: to ensure the
cevelopment of tho mining industry the Governmont of
I anchuluo has organized special courses of training
for mining technicians.
Peiping, Chinese, ovember 29: A reprosentative
of tho Contral Industrial Administration of Northern
China urgos the population, particularly tho poasants,
to observe strict cconomy in food consumption.
Tolyo, Japanoso, Docember 1: The Railroad
Construction Cormission at Karafuto reports thc com-
pletion of a railway and a motor highway on Salhalin.
Changchun, Chinose, December 1: In the ton years
of its oxistence ianchuluo has becone indepondent of
imports

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.96)
-3- #1114, December 1810 aam (SECTIoN TWO) from (Moscow)
uibyshev
imports and is now ablo to supply Japan with many
ossential cormoditios. This yoar production of coal
and iron increased sharply and crops were cxcellont.
There certain shortages rosulting from the war, but
because of tho rationing system distribution is
satisfactory. Tho adoption ofa prico stabilization law
last year has provonted furthor price rises. Thero is
no inflation. Popular savings have exccoded the amount
set in tho plan by ono and onc-half bi(*) nce tho outbreak
of tho Asiatic Var more than 10 million yuans have been
contributed to the vantung army fund and more than 5
mllion yuans have boon offered as sifts. During tho
same poriod the Japaneso Haval Attacho has received more
than 65 million yuans for tho Japanoso navy fund.
DOOMAN
1CR
(*) Omission belicvcd to bo "llion yuans. Si"

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.93)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
(Moscow)
WMB
Kuibyshev
This telegram must be
closely paraphrased. be-
FROMDated DEcEmbEr 18, 1942
to. anybnt.(SC)
REc'd 7:50 p•m•; 20th
Seoretary of State,
Washington,
1114. DEcEmbEr 18, 10 a.m. (SECTION THREE)
Tokyo, JapanEsE, DEcEmber 5: ThE rEsouroEs of
Java arE bEing dEvElopEd under JapanEsE direction
4 million hEctares arE under oultivation. ThE annual
rioE crop avErages morE than 4 million tons. It will
bE larger this yEar than in thE past. Sugar produotion
18 2,300,000 tons, of wh1ch 300,000 tons arE rEquired
locally and thE balancE availablE for Export. Annual
production of cinchona bark is 8oo tons; of rubber
2,500,000 tons; of tobac00 25,000 tons. ThE JapanEsE
authorities with thE coopEration of thE looal population
are taking. etepe to Effeot thE rapid dEvElopmEnt of thE
rith deposits of sulphur, zinc, gold, silver, manganesE
and other minerals.
(END OF MESSAGE)
C
DOOMAN
MCR
in

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.96)
Be
On
Ogi
12/22/42
mEQ
FARAPHRASE OF TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FROM: AMEMBASSY, Kuibyshev
TO:
Secretary of State, Washington
DATED: December 18, 1942, 10 a.m.
NO.
1114
Following is for BEW:
Thompson in Moscow has sent these summaries
of Japanese broadcasts:
November 23, from Tokyo in Japanese: According
to Prime Minister Tojo crop yields for the past season
are larger than those for 1941. The Prime Minister
complains however that the peasantry is still not making
sufficient efforts. He points out that great quantities
of raw materials and supplies are needed in time of war
and demands that the population make every possible
effort to bring about victory.
November 25, from Tokyo in Japanese: At a con-
ference held in the Ministry for Greater Eastern Asia
yesterday there was a discussion of methods of increasing
industrial production. Consideration was given to the
improved output of raw materials, especially increased
coal production nd Hokkaido, and the mining of minerals
in Central China.
November 30,

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
November 30, from Peiping, in Chinese:
Reports from Hongkong state that postal communications
between the occupied parts of China and Hongkong will
be reestablished December 1.
DOOMAN
ASB
S:ASB
FWS:LEY
12/20/42

=== Page 372 === (confidence 1.00)
PARAPHRASE OF TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FROM:
American Embassy, Kuibyshev
TO:
Secretary of State, Washington
DATE:
December 18, 1942
NUMBER:
1114
SECTION TWO
November 29 from Chanchun in Chinese:
One. There was held in Tokyo on November 26 and 27
an economic conference for Eastern Asia attended by more
than five hundred delegates from Japan, Mongolia, Manchukuo,
and China. The conference took note of the fact that since
the outbreak of the war great progress in the economic
development of the aforementioned countries had occurred.
In the future it will. be essential for the countries repre-
sented at the conference to maintain close relationships.
Two. On November 21 conferences were held in a number
of provinces of Eastern Manchuria for the purpose of con-
sidering means whereby agricultural produce would be
attracted to the markets. Crops in Manchuria this year are
not poorer than last year's crops.
November 30 from Changchun in Chinese: As of December 1
the income tax on cafes, restaurants, and various amusement
interprises in Manchukuo is to be increased.
December 1

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
December 1 from Tokyo in Japanese:
One. The treaty of aid between Japan and Thailand
received final approval today from the Privy Council. Each
day the friendly union between Japan and Thailand grows
stronger. Already we have treaties of cultural and mutual
assistance with Thailand.
Two. From Batavia it is reported that as of December 1
regular postal service has been established between Java and
Sumatra.
Three. In Northern Japan the harvesting has been completed
and the peasants are paying off their debts. During their spare
time they must now work in nearby shops and factories like the
peasants in other districts.
November 29 from Changch in Chinese: The Government of
Manchukuo has organized special courses of training for mining
technicians in order to insure the development of the mining
industry.
November 29 from Peiping in Chinese: The population,
particularly the peasants, are urged by a representative of
the Central Industrial Administration of Northern China to
observe strict economy in their consumption of food.
December 1 from Tokyo in Japanese: A report has been
received from The Railroad Construction Commission at
Karafuto

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
afuto that on Sakhalin a railroad and motor highway have
been completed.
December 1 from Changchun in Chinese: During the decade
which Manchukuo has existed, it has become independent
of imports and is able at the present time to supply Japan
with many essential commodities.and materials. During the
past year there has been an increase in the production of
coal and iron and crops were excellent. Certain shortages
resulting from the war exist. However, distribution is
satisfactory because of the rationing system. Further in-
creases in the price level have been prevented by the adoption
of the price stabilization law last year. Inflation does not
exist. The amount prescribed in the plan for popular savings
has been exceeded by one and one-half bi(*). Since the out-
break of the Asiatic War more than ten million yuans have been
contributed to the Kwantung army fund. More than five million
Juans have been offered as gifts. The Japanese Naval Attache
has received for the Japanese navy fund during the same period
more than sixty-three million yuans.
SECTION THREE
December 5 from Tokyo in Japanese: Under Japanese
direction the development of resources in Java proceeds.
Four million hectares of land are under cultivation. The
annual rice crop averages more than four million tons. This
year

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
year it will be larger than it has been during past years.
The production of sugar amounts to 2,300,000 tons. Of this
amount 300,000 tons are required for local consumption while
the balance is available for export. The production of cinchona
bark amounts to eight hundred tons annually. Rubber production
is 2,500,000 tons. Tobacco production amounts to 25,000 tons.
In cooperation with the local population, the Japanese
authorities are taking steps to develop rapidly the rich
deposits of silver, manganese, sulphur, gold, and zinc.
Deposits of other minerals are also being rapidly developed.
DOOMAN
(*) Omission believed to be "llion yuans."
DCA:BB$: CLA
12-21-42

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.93)
GAR
crs
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
AIR
Kuibyshev, November 13, 1942
a
No. 147
Subject:
Transmitting copies of monitored Japanese
broadcasts.
Soleys eopies toze
Diviaion of
FAR EASTEHN AFFAIRS
442   1 MM9 41
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
1/4/43
DE,291942
faww/k/w//
THO
ECVED
RD
S
File
Deps tmont of Stats
The Hoporable
OISIAIO
he Secretary of State,
COMMUN
R
Washington, D. C.
AND
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to Moscow's telegram
number 430 of November 4, 1942, 5 p.m., concerning
Japanese broadcasts as received by Soviet monitoring
894.76/105
1/
stations, and to transmit herewith copies of the full
Russian texts in single copy of the monitored broadcasts,
summaries of which were contained in the telegram under
reference.
Respectfully yours,
For the Chargé d'Affaires ad interim:
894.76
Charles E. Dickerson, Jr
First Secretary of Embassy
Enclosure
 1/ Copies of Japanese broadcasts, as stated
Original and two copies to the Department
File No. 874
JAN 11 1943
ELS:els
FILED
Carbon Copies Destroyed
VH
PS
/BMB

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.92)
Divisign of
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
OF THE
DEC 2 8 1942
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Depa, tment of State
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Kuibyshev, October 22, 1942
No. 129
AIR
NOF GOMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
DE61942
1943
Subject:
Transmitting copies
ofmonitored Japanese
 D1    9  39
broadcasts.
SNOI
January
File
F
STRICELY CONFIDENTIAL
E
a
D1
R
HD
N/NL/m
00211942
Thes
ble
oretary of State,
ashington, D. C.
800.76 mointaring 1439 Cr
sir:
I haye the honor to refer to the Embassy's despa
c
mumber 106 of October 1, 1942, concerning Japanese
6
broadcasts as received by Soviet monitoring stations,
1/
and to transmit herewith copies of the full Russian texts
in single copy of the monitored broadcasts for the
76/106
period September 18 to October 11, summaries of which
have been telegraphed to the Department.
Respectfully yours,
For the Chargé d'Affaires a. i.:
Las. S
Charles E. Dickerson, Jr
First Secretary of Embassy
Enclosure
1/ Copies of Russian texts of
JAN S-1943
Japanese broadcasts, as stated.
FILED
To the Department in original and hectograph
File No. 874
ELR:els
v2
6FR
by.
PS/BM
8

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.97)
January 6, 1943
The Seeretary of State presents his compliments
to the Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission
and encloses for his information and that of the Foreign
Broadcast Intelligence Service sopies of despatohes of
894.76/106
Rstober 22 and November 13, 1942, received from the
Ameriean Embassy at Kuibyshev, together with the
original enelosures thereto, namely, copies of the full
Russian texts of Japanese broadoasts as received by
Soviet monitoring stations.
Enclosures:
1. From Embassy,
Kuibyshev,
no. 129 or
Oetober 22, 1942,
with original enclosure.
2.
From Embassy,
Kuibyshev, no. 147 of
PS
November 13, 1942, with
eax
original enelosure.
A tree cory 
6/VMC
1943PM
NK
JB
IN:HGK:MND
1-4-43
Eu

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 8, 1943
Reference Chungking's underlying
despatch No. 778 of December 5, 1942
with which 1s enclosed a translation
received from Chinese sources of Ambas-
sador Kurusu's speech of November 26.
This speech was extensively re-
viewed by FE in a tag dated December 1,
1942 based on reports from monitorings
of the FCC. A copy of this tag is
attaohed.
The two translations are substan-
tially the same, with minor differences
caused chiefly by the fact that the one
received from Chungking was translated
through the Chfnese.
FE:Benninghorr:MLs

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.95)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Chungking, December 5, 1942.
AIR AL
No. 778
SK
Subject: Transmission of Translation
or Xurusu's Speech.
C
EED
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D.C.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
telegram no. 1174, December 1, 1942, 10 p.m. con-
cerning the speech made on November 26 by former
Japanese Envoy Kurusu and broadcast by the Japanese
radio and, in accordance with the Department's ins-
tructions, to enclose a trans lation of the speech
prepared by the Embassy from a Chinese text obtained
from Dr. Quo Tai-chi, former Chinese Minister for
Foreign Affairs.
CC
76
Respectfully yours,
07
C. E. Gauss
M9 DASVOL SKY
Enclsure :
Speech, as stated above.
Original and two copies to the Department.
711
PDS:g
R
1943

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.99)
TRANSLATION OF SPEECH MADE ON NOVEMBER 26, 1942,
BY FORMER JAPANESE ENVOY KURUSU, AS BROADCAST BY
JAPANESE RADIO.
Exactly a year ago today---November 26th---was
the day on which Secretary Hull personally handed a
document to the two Ambassadors Nomura and Kurusu
after a lengthy period of eight months of talks be-
tween Japan and America, and on which the negotiation
practically came to an end. That document gave no
consideration to our proposals but enumerated condi-
tions hardly bearable to the Empire. Arrogant America
presented its unilateral views, at the same time se-
cretly planning to start a Great Asia War and preparing
a challenge to us. Secretary Hull's threatening words
to Japan were practically an ultimatum and indeed the
first direct mention of an ultimatum of war. Thus,
November 26th can be taken as the date on which America
issued its ultimatum to this Empire.
On August 20th of last year (?), the former Am-
bassador to America Kurusu returned home on an exchange
ship. While attending a luncheon party sponsored by
TA CHENG YI CHAN HUI (Imperial Political Assistance
Association) at the Imperial Hotel, he broke a silence
of three months after his return by declaring to the
public the true state of affairs in connection with
the Japanese-American negotiations and by exposing
fully the tyranny of America. Besides explicitly
stating where the responsibility for the war should
belong, he vigorously emphasized in the speech that
the people must show their firm determination to fight
the war to the bitter end.
Here is the important substance of the speech:
It will soon be a year since His Majesty the Em-
peror proclaimed the decree of declaration of war on
December 8th in the 16th year of Tsau Ho. To recall:
For ten months after the spring of last year the Empire
continued to take the attitude of courtesy and for-
bearance with the sole hope of securing peace and mak-
ing progress in improving the relations between Japan
and America. In the end, however, she was forced to
rise up courageously and to face the war with America
and Britain. This the Imperial Government has made
very clear to the world in its declared statements.
Significant was the day of last year when Ambas-
sador Nomura and I received from Secretary Hull a
very important document which brought the final stage
of negotiations to a close and to the crucial point
of peace or war. Thus, that day to me is an unfor-
gettable day in my life, and at the same time a day
which the pe ople of our own country must specially bear
in mind. Later in about ten days the two countries,
Japan and America, fell right into the midst of the
cannon fire. The Imperial Army, however, has not found
a real enemy in the war yet. In only about half a year
since

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
since the beginning of the war the Imperial Army has
already wiped out the American and British forces in
the entire Southern area and has reaped a record
harvest unprecedented in the history of world wars.
At the time when we were interned in the enemy country,
very often we received detailed reports, and, besides
offering our profound gratitude to the grace of His
Majesty the Emperor, we felt more than ever thankful
for being Japanese ourselves.
The factors causing the outbreak of the war in
the Great East Asia may be found in past history. In
reviewing the world development, it is found that all
the events which have occurred since the 19th century
have largely been struggles for power and have formed
a record for Western power over Eastern ......." All
the peoples of East Asia have been brought under the
advances of the strong military forces and economic
power of the Western (European) countries. This Great
Asia War, a natural sequence in the world history, is
but a revolt of the peoples of the East Asia against
the unlawful encroachment by the vestern (European)
power. Realizing this situation Germany, Italy and
other Axis Powers have on one hand advocated the es-
tablishment for themselves of a new order in Europe,
and on the other decidedly acknowledged the reasons
for the establishment of a new order in East Asia.
That is exactly why our country has taken coordinated
steps with these nations, has denied the schemes of
Britain and America, and has resorted to war with the
latter attempting to undermine our objectives.
Next, when we observe the relations of America
with Japan, we find that the Far Eastern policy of
America in the early period took primarily the develop-
ment of trade and propagation of Christianity as its
objectives, that then there existed the Furitan cons-
cience of Colonial America, and that the relations of
the two countries were thus most friendly and cordial.
But after the Spanish-American Nar in 1898 when America
took the Philippines and entered into the sphere of the
East Asia together with other countries of the West
(Europe), the American policy with respect to East Asia
changed its nature. There was outwardly shown a sign
of Puritanical idealism, but there were also in the
heart intrigues of imperialism. As a result, there
was an incongruous contradiction, or in other words,
imperialistic designs were too often disguised under
the good name of idealism. That kind of inconsistent
trend was most manifest after the Russo-Japanese War.
When the Manchurian Incident took place, America was
anti-Japanese and pro-Chinese, and the American policy
towards Imperial Japan was more outrageous than ever.
Then the China Incident broke out and America came to
aid China and maintain her antagonistic policy toward
Japan, even resorting to the use of threats and finally
to open war with Japan. On another side, witnessing
the growing prosperity of Nazi Germany, America un-
ceasingly insisted upon the threat from dictatorships
and

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
and went on with her planning of the increase of her
own armament program. When the Second European War
suddenly broke out, America declared that her national
defence line had moved to Europe, and accordingly she
busily indulged in the work of rendering assistance
to England. At the same time, she adopted in East
Asia a strong stand against Japan and stood on the
first line of aid for the Chiang regime. She used all
kinds of tactics to prevent our righteous development
in the South, because she had made a wrong estimate
of Japan, thinking that Japan, having already spent
most of its energy for four years in dealing with the
China Incident, could easily be brought to surrender
by means of economic pressure. At first she used em-
bargo as a threat and later she abrogated the Japanese-
American commercial treaty. At that time, our country
finding herself in a changing world situation had to
stand at the crossroads and to exercise extreme caution
in deciding its important national policy. But under
the repeated American pressure, our country finally
came to a decision to conclude the Tripartite Treaty with
Germany and Italy, to which America shortly answered
with the embargo of scrap iron. Again, immediately
following the conclusion of a joint defence between
the Empire and French Indo-China in July of last year,
America answered with an order of freezing assets and
another of prohibiting oil export. These are indeed
not measures of economic pressure, but important steps
comparable to the opening of the war. In the meantime,
just a few days before the enforcement of the freezing
order, Fresident Roosevelt made a speech in which he
said: "This kind of cconomic pressure may, of course,
lead to war, but it is something that cannot be avoided."
This statement was purposely made with the intention
to show determination as well as to hint that economic
pressure meant decision for war. Now, after the out-
break of the war, Assistant Secretary of State Berle
on February 20th of this year made a speech from which
it might be learned very clearly that America at that
time had already made up its mind to open war with
Japan. Furthermore, America's intrigues toward Japan
did not stop there. Besides economic war......
(here broadcast broken)...... to threat our country.
The Imperial Government, in the interest of pre-
serving peace in the Pacific, continued to exercise
forbearance and consideration working very hard toward
reaching an accord with America at Washington since
the spring of last year. However, on the part of
America, the above-mentioned steps like embargo of
oil and freezing of assets were all taken during the
negotiations, and there was throughout no indication
of a spirit of mutual compromise but, on the contrary,
a complete disregard of the actualities of East Asia.
In spite of all these, the Imperial Government
even at the last minute still attempted to solve the
problem, desperately hoping to prevent the possible
spread of war to the Pacific. It was with this idea
that

=== Page 384 === (confidence 1.00)
that I was instructed to cross the Pacific. At first
America showed only an attitude of social courtesy
toward our warm interest in reaching an agreement.
But all the way through she insisted upon the same
conception and the same principle as her keynote, thus
making delay in negotiations inevitable. With a desire
to relieve the tension of the atmosphere, we recommended
a modus vivandi on November 2oth of last year after very
careful and practical consideration. The contents of
the proposal are exactly what has been published. The
principal idea behind it was to relieve the growing
tension of the situation caused by the freezing order
and other actions. But to this America answered with
a document listing demands, which was personally handed
to me on November 26th, and which contained contradic-
tions........ including complete evacuation of troops
from China and French Indo-China, establishment of a
system based on the multilateral non-aggression treaty
concluded at the Washington Conference, and rejection
of our proposals. Thereupon negotiations came to the
last serious crisis, and war broke out.
The American proposed document of November 26th
and other documents have now all been published. One
American critic who had read this document once sigh-
ingly said: "It is not difficult to understand why
Japan decided to open war after receiving this kind of
document. But it was indeed wrong for the American
Government to hand such 'war-conducive' document to
Japan without first making it public to the people of
this country". As to what kind of attitude America
took at that time, it can be readily seen from an
American document published after the war. In the re-
port made on January 24 after investigation on the
spot at Pearl Harbor by the Roberts Commission which
was created to investigate the truth of the Pearl Har-
bor Battle, there are passages about long, careful and
coordinated preparations made by the headquarters of
American army and navy at the time of delivery of the
document on November 26th. It is stated: "The Japanese-
American negotiations have already come to an end under
such a deadlock that they cannot be opened again."
Thereupon, the Chief of Army Staff and the Chief of
Naval Operation respectively issued secret orders to
army and navy commanders in Hawaii together with de-
tailed instructions about necessary preparations for
the outbreak of the war. This can be taken as evidence
without a shred of doubt that the American Government
definitely made up its mind for a war with Japan. That
is why this war came so suddenly and the responsibility
of the war should be borne by America and not Japan.
However, from the document issued by America herself
alone it is still difficult to see the whole truth.
From the report of the Roberts Commission there are
many facts contained therein to prove that before Novem-
ber 27th, in connection with the Japanese-American ne-
gotiations, there were preparations in America for a
war with Japan. What should be particularly noted is
that in certain parts of the introduction in the report
there

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
there is a recognition of the possibility of conflict
between the American Pacific policy and policies of
other countries, and, following that argument, a
realization by American army and navy that when these
policies intended to avoid conflict could not be
brought into reconciliation, war would be unavoidable.
On January 24, 194l, Secretary of War Stimson issued
a circular letter stating: "The critical danger in
the relations between Japan and America has become
serious. The problem of safety of the Pacific Fleet
at Pearl Harbor should be examined again. And on the
basis of observation of the moment it may not be en-
tirely beyond expectation that Japan may attack Pearl
Harbour by surprise". It is indeed unthinkable that
America should, a year before, suspect others without
any ground. In a word, America was proud because she
had forseen the inevitability of the war with Japan.
Thus she showed no sincerity in the negotiations and
at the same time took the measures of freezing assets
and the like. America had evidently blinded herself
in the belief that Japan, having been wearied in the
China Incident, actually had no strength to fight a
combined force of America and Britain. The informa-
tion I received then confirms that some Americans be-
lieved that, in order to put Japan into a deep mire,
a war on the Pacific should be fought without regret
and that it was only a question for study as to how
to declare that war. There is also reason to believe
that there were not a few Americans who advocated
solidarity in the country rather than going into the
war. The navy and army commanders at Hawaii, the
Chief of Naval Operation, the Chief of Army Operation,
and others all believed then that since the war be-
tween Japan and America would be unavoidable, America
should take action before the Japanese. America was,
however, very timid with regard to the opening of the
war.
Since Japan occupied the Philippines, the American
country became panic-stricken and pessimistic over the
prospect of the war. At the same time the American
people boastfully declared that the aims of the war
were to destroy the stupid plans of Japan, to over-
throw the Axis Powers, to support democracy, and to
bring into realization the Atlantic Charter drafted
at the conference of Roosevelt and Churchill.
In the spring of this year Roosevelt himself be-
came highly interested and excited over this war. On
one hand, he named the war as "the war for survival",
but, on the other, he was not satisfied with this,
for at the bottom of his heart he embraced not only
the idea of bringing Japan into her knees, but also
the great scheme of placing the entire world under the
protection of the American flag. What is most signi-
ficant is the speech of Under-Secretary of State Welles
made on May 30th of this year. The New York Times re-
corded in this speech something about.........emancipa-
tion of all peoples after the war and the following
points as the aims of the war:
First,

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
First, Prosecution of individuals, groups and
citizens who are responsible for the war.
Second, Establishment of a peace organization in
a considerable time after the war, and then disarming
of the aggressor nations.
Third, Institution of an international police....
as a perpetual organization for preservation of peace.
Fourth, Attention to the solution of economic and
social problems after the war, and establishment of an
international structure with America and her Allies as
the basic members for establishing final conditions for
peace.
Fifth, Responsibility of America to assume leader-
ship in the world order after the war.
Sixth, Continuance of the Fan-American structure.
On the first point about the responsibility of the
war......
.......at the beginning of March of this year,
Britain's Foreign Secretary Eden and the Chungking re-
gime all manufactured reports of maltreatment of pri-
soners of war at Hong Kong and made a great use of the
material for propaganda.......The idea is to aim at the
punishment of the people of our country. Disarming of
aggressor nations in the second point and international
police in the third point mean........to place... ...
under military pressure of America, Chungking, etc.
The fourth and fifth points mean the placing of the
post-war world order under the leadership of America
and Anglo-Saxons. The sixth point means the continuance
of the western hemisphere as the sphere of influence
for America. As to the so-called world peace based on
economic freedom and equality, the primary purpose back
of it must be read together with the above-mentioned
fourth and fifth points.
In a word, they are all designed to create an
American system upon which all other countries must
depend so that when the latter have any kind of de-
mand, economic pressure or other means can be used to
bring them into surrender. Thus it is not difficult
to imagine what the aims of the war are. They are
none less than attempts to make our country fall down
so deeply as to be deprived of a chance to become an
independent nation again. That is one of the reasons
why our country must be well prepared to go on with
the war and to fight to the bitter end.
Translated by: TTL
Checked by: PDS

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
(Moscow)
Kuibyshev
HEL
This telegram must be
Dated January 6, 1943
closely paraphrased be
REc'd 6:45 p.m., 8th
to anyone. (SC)
INTA
JAN 1 51943
Division of
Secretary of StatE
DEPAR
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
File
925.
181943
Washington.
Depa tment of State
94.76
26, January 6, 9 p.m..
FOR BOARD OF ECONOMTC MARFARE.
894.76/108
JapanEsE broadaeats.
Tokyo Italian DEcEmber. 8: (a) JapanEsE command
reports incrEased production of oil and coal in BornEo.
Japan will also rEceivE industrial diamonds, now in
short supply.
(b) Shipyards at Hongkong arE rEpairEd and in
full operation. First org& transport already launched
C
and sEcond will follow shortly. Many smaller craft
JAN 2 0 1943
FILED
under construction.
P
Tokyo JapanEsE DEcEmbEr 12: (a) ThE WEEk of
CS
DEcEmber 13 will bE devoted to thE mobilization of
右:
2
provisions for thE national defencE fund. Between
DIVISION OF COMMERCIAL AAIRS
January 1 and Aprilla campaign will bE conducted through-
Confidential File
out Japan for the conservation of foodstuffs. ll pa-
JAN 11 1943
triots are urged to support this campaign as a con-
tribution to national defEnoE.
(b) It is rEported from SEoul that a conferencE
was convened by the Governor General of Korea to
consider

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-, #26, January 6, 9 p.m, from KuibyahEv.
consider question of food conservation.
(c) In radio address Katokanzi former lEader of
thE pro-letariatE party, appEaled to peasants for
greater production, greater Efforts, greater sacrifices
in order that armed forces should not lack necessary
foodstuffs.
Tokyo Italian DecEmber 12:
To advancE industrial dEvElopmEnt JapanEsE havE
constructed nEw railvay across Central Sumatra. Vith
growing industrialization additional transportation facil-
1ticg
arE badly nEeded.
Tokyo Italian DEcEmber 13: (a) JapanEsE authoritiEs
havE changed many placE names in occupied territories.
City and provincE of Batavia renemed Jokarta.
(b) PEiping rEports that construction of a nEtwork
of important trunk highways joiningPEiping and sEveral
provincial cities is almost completed. ThesE roads
will havE grEat significancE for thE Economic develop-
mEnt of China and thE Exploitation of its agricultural
rESOUrCES.
(c) Postal sErvices bEtvEen SingaporE and thE
southern provinces werE rEsumed on DEcember 1.
Tokyo German DEcember 14: FrimE Minister Tojo has
announced that at thE outbreak of thE war Japan's
petroleum

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.97)
-5-, #26, January 6, 9 p.m., from Kuibyshev.
pEtroleum position was nuch vorse than at present.
Although the JapanesE supposad that all oil reserves
in the Dutch East Indies vould bE destroyed, actually
they fell almost Entirely into the hands of thE Japan-
EsE. Japan now controls su ficient oil production to
mEEt its own military needs and to supply its EuropEan
allies as well. The Japanzss fleet is fully supplied.
Japan can solvE thE transport problem, sincE it is
not threatened by submarinEs; furthermorE sincE thE bE-
ginning of the war a substantial number of warships and
merchant vessels, including tankers have been built.
ThE JapanesE fleet increases steadily and circulates
freEly in all sEas
Tokyo Italian DEcember 14: SincE bEginning of
var popular contributions to the War linistry for arm-
aments and rEliEf of war victims have ExcEEded
86,000,000 yEn; to thε Navy Ministry 157,000,000 yEn.
Contributions to thE dEfensE fund sincE 1938 ExcEEdEd
42,000,000 yen.
Tokyo JapanEsE DEcEmber 14: a bill for thE Estab-
lishment of a government pEtroleum trading monopoly, vhic!
has bEen considerEd by thE CabinEt and approvEd by thE
Min vill bE introduced at thE nExt sEssion of Parliament.
ThE CabinEt has dEcidEd to ElaboratE a dEtailEd plan
for fixing

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.96)
-4-, #26, January 6, 9 p.m., 
from Kuibyshev.
for fixing monopoly prices Anlsesignatang firms
which may deal in pEtroleum in Japan and occupied
territoriEs.
Chang Chun ChinEsE DEcEmber 14: SincE October
thE Manchurian company for thE production of articles
of primary nEcEssity has prEpared 50,000 sEts of
woolen and cotton clothing which will shortly bE
distributed to thE population.
STANDIEY
WSB

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.98)
Bew
OSS
PARAPHRASE OF TELEGRAM RECEIVED
m.
1/1743
FROM:
AMEMBASSY, Kuibyshev
EQ
TO:
Secretary of State, Washington
DATE:
January 6, 1943, 9 p.m.
NUMBER: 26
CONFIDENTIAL
The following telegram concerns Japanese broad-
casts.
December 8, 1942 from Tokyo in Italian: (a)
Increased production of coal and oil in Borneo is
reported by the Japanese command. Industrial diamonds,
now in short supply, will also be received by Japan.
(b) Shipyards at Hongkong are repared and are in
full operation. The first large transport has already
been launched and the second will follow shortly.
There are also under construction many smaller craft.
December 12 from Tokyo in Japanese: (a) the week
of December 13 will be devoted to the mobilization of
provisions for the netional defense fund. A campaign
will be conducted throughout Japan between January 1
and April for the conservation of foodstuffs. All
patriots are urged to support this campaign as a
contribution to national defense.
(b) From Seoul it 1s reported that the Governor
General of Korea convened a conference to consider
the

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
the question of food conservation.
(c) The former leader of the proletariat party,
Katokanzi, in a radio address appealed to peasants
for greater sacrifices, greater efforts, and greater
production so that the armed forces would not lack
the necessary foodstuffs.
December 12 from Tokyo in Italian:
A new railway has been constructed by the Japan-
ese across Central Sumatra to advence industrial
development. With growing industrialization additional
transportation facilities are needed badly.
December 13 from Tokyo in Italian: (a) Many
named places in occupied territories have been
changed by Japanese authorities. The city and province
of Batavia have been renamed Jokarta. (b) It is
reported from Peiping that the construction of a net-
work of important trunk highways joining Peiping
and several provincial cities is almost completed.
These roads will have great significance in the
economic development of China and the exploitation
of its agricultural resources.
(c) On December 1 the postal services between
Singapore and the southern provinces were resumed.
December 14 from Tokyo in German: An announce-
ment has been made by Prime Minister Tojo that The
Japanese

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
Japanese petroleum position at the outbreak of the
war was much worse than at present. Although it was
supposed by the Japanese that all oil reserves in the
Dutch East Indies would be destroyed, actually they
fell almost entirely into the hands of the Japanese.
Sufficient oil production is now controlled by Japan.
to meet its own military needs and to supply its
European allies as well. The Japanese fleet is fully
supplied. Since it is not threatened by submarines
Japan can solve the transport problem; furthermore
a substantial number of warships and merchant vessels,
including tankers, have been built since the beginning
of the war. The Japanese fleet increases steadily and
circulates freely in all seas.
December 14 from Tokyo in Italian: Popular con-
tributions to the War Ministry for armaments and relief
of war victims since the beginning of the war have
exceeded 86,000,000 yen; to the Navy M1nistry 137,000,000
yen. Contributions to the defense fund since 1938
exceeded 42,000,000 yen.
December 14 from Tokyo in Japanese: At the
next session of Parliament a bill for the establish-
ment of a Government petroleum trading monopoly,
which has been considered by the Cabinet and approved
by

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.98)
-4
by the Min, will be introduced. The Cabinet has
decided to elaborate a detailed plan for fixing
(and designating?)
monopoly prices Anlsesignatang firms which may deal
in petroleum in Japan and occupied territories.
December 14 from Chang Chun in Chinese: 50,000
sets of woolen and cotton clothing, which will shortly
be distributed to the population, have been prepared
since October by the Manchurian company for the
production of articles of primary necessity.
The foregoing message should be brought to the
attention of the Board of Economic Warfare.
STANDLEY
JOB
DCA:IDB:MEB:SS
1/11/43

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.93)
Division of
FAR EASTEAN AFFAIRS
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
JAV 2 7 1943
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERIÇA
Depa tment of State
AMERICAN EMBASSY
6FR
PIRTA
0
Kuibyshev, December 17, 1942
AIR MAIL
No. 194
STATS
Subject:
Transmitting copies of monitored Japanese
BUNICATIONS
broadcasts.
AM
Fale
DIVISION OF COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
RECOF
9
R
R
Capy of despitch 
N
23
00
sigeial inoloures
liformgely to FCC
1943
(n/a mm
1-2/-43
The Honorable
894.76/109
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
102
CF
Sir:
894.76
I haye the honor to refer to Moscow's telegram
number 514 of December 2, 1942, 6 p.m., concerning
Japanese broadcasts as receive by Coviet monitoring
1/
stations, and to transmit herewith copies of the full
Russian texts in single copy of the monitored broadcasts,
summaries of which vere contained in the telegram under
reference.
Respectfully yours,
Loy W. Heuderooy
Loy. Henderson
Chargé dihrfaires ad interim
Enclosure
1/ Copies of Japanese broadcasts, as stated
Original and two copies to the Department
JAN 2 9 1943
FILED
File No. 874
ELS:els
2 cachos co pere - 212
PS / GT

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.94)
IM
DCA
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
DIVISION OF
RECEIVED
OF THE
IROOLAN
AFFAIRS
DEPARTHENFOFSSTAEE OF AMERICA
Eu
1943 FEB 2 PM 1 53
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Kuibyshev, December 19, 1942
DIVISION OF
No. 196
COMMUNICATIONS
Subjeot:
broadcasts.
4
DIVISION
Fle
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
nclopure
cofies infomelept
ONICTIONS
The Honorable
14
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
894.
Sir:
894.76/104
CP
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's telegram
number 1114 of December 18, 1942, 10 p.m., concerning
Japanese broadcasts as received by Soviet monitoring
1/
stations, and to transmit herewith copies of the full
Russian texts in single copy of the monitored broadcasts,
summaries of which were contained in the telegram under
reference.
Respectfully yours
For the Chargé d'Affaires ad interim:
Charles E. Dickerson, Jr.
First Secretary of Embassy
Enclosure
PE/RA
1/ Copies of Japanese broadcasts, as stated.
Original and two copies to the Department
File No. 874
ELS:els
FEB 2 3 1943
6
FILED

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.94)
Division of
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
OF THE
FE311943
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Depa tment of State
EU
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 225
Subject:
Transmitting copies of monitored Japanese
broadcasts.
1 BE2V
with enes
In
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
sec
FEB 1 5 1943
Recording Desk
The
Honorable
The Secretary of State,
File.C.B.W.
Washington, D. C.
874.76/108
Sir:
894.76
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's telegram
number 26 of January 6, 1943, 9 p.m., concerning
Japanese broadcasts as received by Soviet monitoring
1/
stations, and to transmit herewith copies of the full
Russian texts in single copy of the monitored broadcasts
C
summaries of which were contained in the telegram under
reference.
Respectfully yours,
P  TA
2 M 154
For the Ambassador:
MUIAIONS
Mpue N. Doomais
ES
EE
Eugone H. Dooman
5
Minister Counselor of Embassy
1943 FE8
1/ Copies of Japanese broadcasts, as stated.
FEB 23 1943
Original and two copies to the Department
FILED
File No. 874
ELS:els
PS/CF
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS
FEB 1 8 1943

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.96)
RESTRICTED
FEB1-1943
DIVISAN OF
THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 1943
FORE IGN BROADCAST INTELLIGENCE SERVICE
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
DECLASSIFIED
00.11. See. 3(E) and 5(0) r(
lettir 19.gax 73
894.76
SPEC
RELEASE
TOKYO ENGLISH-LANGUAGE BROADCAST REPORTING
FREMIER TOJO'S SPEECH IN THE JAFANESE DIET;
TOGETHER ITH ENGLISH TRANSLATION OF PARTS
OF THE SPEECH AS
BROADCAST IN JAPANESE TO
THE HOME AUDIENCE
SUPPLEMENT TO THE
FILED
DAILYREPORT

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.97)
FROMTOJOS
bilowing is a broadcast giving parts of tho spoech by Premier Pideki
Tolo. Before the House of Poere of the Imperial Diet, in English by Tokyo
(DONI) to the world (Jan. 27, 8:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m: WT):
JAPAN AS. LAID FOUNDATIONS FOR VICTORY
Premier Togo, addressing the Po se of Peers in the 8lst Diet session, which
reconvened today (January 27). after the New Year's recess, declared that,
through the brilliant victories achleved by the Imperial forces, Japan already
has aecured strategic areas and ample resources in East Asia, in the first
year of the war. To'o took the rostrum, although his fever has not yet
completely subevded, in order not to further delay the Diet session reopening
which had been postponed one week on account of his illness.
Lande Fighters--At the outset of his address Tojo, on tehalf of the 100,000,000
people of Japan, pledged renewed determination to fight to win through to
victory. Tojo paid his respects to the officers and men of the Imperial forces,
who day and night continue to fight furiously with doath-defying spirit.
(we bespoke his) heartfelt apprecietion to the people on the home front who
are vigorously executing the task of expanding Japan's fighting strength, for
the spirit of the brave and loyal men who died on the field of battle, and his
sympathy to the wounded and sick.
Alliee' Sinister Ambitious--The Promior went on to say: "The Empire of Japan
is now in the midst of a war unprecodonted in scale against both the U.S.
and Britain--which vaunt wealth and strength to the world--in order to destroy
their sinister ambitions to dominate the world.
To Crush U.S., Britain--"Neodless to say it has been the great 1deal of our
mpire, mince ite founding, to enable all countries each (in its) proper place,
and all peoples, to enjoy thoir lives in peace and socurity. Indeod it is
toward the realization of this great ideal that the Empire has, for the past
3,ooo years, exerted its efforts. And it 1s also to realize this great ideal
that the nation with 100,000,000 united people, in humble obodience to the
Imperial Reecript doclaring war, is marching to crush the U.S. and britain.
OEJECT OF WAR: REAL WORLD PEACE
"The object of the war of Greater Rast Asia.l1es indeed in speodily stabilizing
Greater ast Asia and construction of a Now Ordor on the basis of othical
prinoiples and thus in bringing about a real world peace in cooperation with
our allies who share the same purpose with us. This object, compared with the
traditional ambition of the Anglo-American countris to promote their own
prosperity at the maorifico of other countrios and to monopolize the world
t exploitation of other poople, is wholly differont in its very essence.

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
hold Consolidatod--"Moreovor under the august virtue of His Majeety, the
ire already, in the first year of the war, has ouickly consolideted a
foothold to attain tho object of the war.
Strategic Suporiority--"As soon as tho Imporial Rescript was granted, our
Imporial forcos, under tho lugust virtue of Fis Majosty, at onco (swopt clear)
tho military strongth of tho U.S., Pritain and tho Nothorlands in Groator
ast Asia, and atill further captured and s curod stratogic rons. This
posttion of our stratogic suporiority will moro and moro bo strongthoned and
porfoctod through srand-scalo offonsivo oporetions which aro to bo offoctod
henceforth through watertight cooporation totwoon tho Imporial Army and Navy,
es well aa throush oxpansion of fighting strongth which accompenios such
oporations.
Land-basod Aircreft--"Taking tho irplano as n inotanco, in sponking of tho
presont position of our stratogic superiority, tho powor of land-besed aircraft
is exceedingly ront in operations carriod cross the sor. At this timo,
whon land basos ro domonetrating such reat power, tho Imperial forces, by
brilliant victories in succucsive battlos ginco the outbroak of tho wer,
obtainod poworful ir basus locatod at suitabl points nd, day by day, our
power is boing demonotiitcd with the fullost offoct.
OFFENSIVE POSITIONS ARE NOW READY
"Now thet, in important rons nd points in cccupiod torritorios, poworful
trategic baaos ro boins purfcctod--in ddition to nir brsos which I havo
alreedy montioned--and in stretugic points our invinciblo land and son forces
have boen distributed, our position for both tho offonsivo nd dofonsivc hes
been complotod. uoroin lic my rosons in mentioning tho fct (that plane have
been) comploted (which lay tho) basis for cortcin victory.
Raw Materinls Socurcd--"Boforo tho outbronk of the war of Greater Enst Asia,
Japan wes deficiont to no little oxtont in such important wor matoriels as
potroloum and rutbor. Tho U.S. and Fritain looked down upon our country with
oontempt, as (shown whon thoy), by taking dventago of this position, dared to
rupture economic rolatione, in nct which we cen (not forget, no mattor how much)
wo may try. owever todry, ftor one yerr of our war of justico, tho southern
arone--the worlds foromost tronsuro house--havo been complotely socured by
. Important natural resourcoo which were monopolized ty tho U.S. nd Eritain
before tho wer hevo changed ownore and have fallen under our control. In
thi mcnnor, Japan came to secure mple resources, ennbling us to prosecute the
war, howevor large its scalo may bo.
lli Hit By Shortnges--"In contrast to this position of ours, the U.S. and
ritain, which bonsted of their wealth and resources bofore the wer, are now
peing the gront shortege of vitel war resources. For their supply of rubber,
t, cinchon, etc.,which thoy proviously obteined from the Southwost Pacific
gions, they are now so unonsy and distressed that, however herd thoy try,
oannot succeed 1n concorling thoir predicament. Feroin lies the very
wmy they, in a mood of darinc, como forth for decisive battle, oven by
strategic disndvantagee.

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.96)
- 5. -
wertnge--"Japan thw occupies an extromely favorable posttiem
to resources, besides holding a position of strategio superiority.
illsing New Reeources--"It will, of course, honceforth, requiro grent
tort on our part to mike these resources domonstrate their real worth and
power. For that purpose, howovor, 1,000,000,000 industrious poople, who
heve awakened to the dawning of a Greater East Asin, are prepered to cooperate
with us and, therefore, we may well expect effective utilization of these
vast resources. At such a juncture, tho U.S. and Eritain, relying solely on
their industricl nbility, are foverishly endeavoring to rocover thoir impaired
fighting strength, cnd lroedy ro ttomptin? to make counteroffonsives. We
should not of couree be off our urrd gainot such a situation; but it is,
nevertholoss, a situation which wo should oxploit most effentively.
1943 IS PE10D OF DECISIVE EATTLES
"This is suroly a yeer which may bo called the period of decisive battles,
through which wo must further add to the great victories we have achieved
during the post yeer ond moro, nd thus consolidato all the moro firmly the
conditions of ure victory.
Offensivos To Come--"Japan intends, by offecting still closer cooperation with
our allies, and in conjunction with thom, to carry on offunsive operations
increasingly against the U.S. and Iritain, ovontually dopriving the enemy of
their ability to continue the war and forcing thom to give up. Wo will
prosecuto tho wer, attaining spoodily thoreby our object in the present con-
fl1ct."
Menchukuo Inductrica--Citing Menchukuo's phenomenal dovelopmont of war
industrioe, which cro contrituting to Japan's fiehting strongth, Promier Tojo
declared:  "Tho presont progross nd prosperity of Manchukuo is itself the
epitome of tho whole rogions of Groster Enst Asin."
Nanking's War--Pointing out Nanking's war declaration against Britain and the
U.S., tho Premier doclared: "This act aignif1es a croat forward step toward
successful prosecution of the Grecter East Asia war to crueh the U.S. and
Britain." Tojo omphasized thet Japen, immediately following China's wer
declaration, decided to tako nocossary stepe for rondition of exclusive Japanese
Concessions in China as well as recongnition and rostoration to China of the
International Settlemente at Shanghai, Amoy and the Peking Legation Quarter,
as well as rolinguishment of oxtratorritorial righte and disposal of enomy
property in China.
Axis Cooporation--Fa snid Gormony's and Italy's cooperative attitude toward
Japan's new relatione in China cre encouraging.
Thailand's Unity--"Thailand, with complete national unity under the powerful
leadership of Premier Field-Marshal Pibul Songgram, and with a bond with our
mpire through the offensive and defensive alliance, ever more strongly cemented,
Tojo declared, "is valiantly engaged with us in the joint war for subjugation
of the U.8. and Britein, and 1s bending earnest efforts toward achievement

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.96)
ion. of the. now Grent er Bst Asia thus demonstrating real
rde of our mpire."
e Strength--Turning to Europe, the Premier remerked that Germany,
pd the other cllies' growing strength "in further developing advantagoous
anf operations by consolidating the invincible position hitherto acquired.
AFRICA CANNOT AFFECT TPE SITUATION
ojo mphasizod the situation in North Africe "cannot affect the goneral war
ituation." He continued: "Thuc, our comredos in arms and allies in the
ast and West, with their fricndtip with us gr wing in cordiality yoar by
year, are, by rieing ahove themeclvos, working in tho clos est possible mutual
collaboration toward the att inment of victory and the renlization of tho
common idoc.1."
Allios' Controvors1es--Turning to nglo-American selfish controversiee, Tojo
commented: "This single fact, by itself, explains, I firmly bolieve, which
ide is right and which side is wrong, and which side will be crowned with
ultimate victcry."
Now Construction--The Promior extended congratulations to Japan's allies for
their accomplishments to dato, end oxpreseed a hope for continued succeas.
Tojo wus Gratified that the Southorn crens already are wholeheartodly cooperating
in new construction. "Its inhabitante aro ontcring  happy and reassuring life.
hiherto unknown," the Promier uxpl ined, adding: "Japan is stoadily producing
cónorete rosulta in making their lands ? placo of poncoful life."
'Burma State--Paying tribute to the dovolopmont of poeco and ordor in Burma
der the leadership ct Maunc, To1) promisod: "Our Empire, during thie yeer
t tho latost, intendo to rocogniz: the crerti n of 1 Burmi State from the
reas under the jurisdiction of tho presont dministration organ."
EURMESE, PTILIFPINE INDEPENDENCE
11:00 p.m. EWT brondcaet udds the following further excerpte:
 Independence--The Promior addod that, thus, Eurmese independence, long
ohed by the Burmese, is about to be renlized.
mpines 'If'--Tojo reitoratod last year's declaration that Japan is willing to
 independonce to the Philippinos if the Filipinos cooperate with Japan
tablishment of the'mst Asin coprosperity sphere.
Cooperatlon--Expressing sntisfaction with steedily improving conditions
 ihilippines under Vargne, Tojo doclared: "I sincerely expect the
will further strengthen their cooperation with our country and thus
ato at the earliest possible opportunity tho indopendence of their

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.99)
Bst With India--Contrasting Burma and the Philippinoe, which are o
regnant with promise, with Burma's neighbor India, which now ie in the
throes of miserable agony, the Premier pointed out that Indie already has
become independent in spirit from Britain. However the Anglo-Americana are
using India as a base of operations endeavoring to disturb the peace of the
New Burma; thus the Imperial Army forces are, therefore, making crushing attack
on theee Anglo-American forces. "A s'ection of the Indien people, who already
know the real intention of Jepan, actually are cooperating with us on the
battlefield," he said.
Sympathy For India--Tojo disclosed (that he is) extending Japan's heartfelt.
sympathy to the leaders and people of India, at present undorgoing the pangs
of labor, in and out of India, for the construction of e new India. Tojo
pledgod their full cooperation.
Chungking--Since the Chungking regime is continuing futile resistance, Tojo
emphaticelly declared: "Japan will continue to deel telling blows to that
regime."
Australia--Japan's attitude toward Australia is similar, since the Australians
ere relying on the U.S. and Eritain, Tojo added.
The Fome Front--Turning to the home front, Tojo pointed out: "In order to win,
we must also continue, more end more, to expand our fighting power in conformity
with the requirements cf military operations." Tojo therefore explained that
"all domestic measures must accordingly be concentrated on this single purpose."
Growing Strength--Tojo paid tritute to the Japanese poople's growing enthusiasm
and strength, which is fully employed in the augmentation of the fighting strength
The Government is emphasizing all efforts for speedily increasing production of
vital war materials, thus renlizing concrete results, Tojo noted. Wartime
inconveniences are unavoidable, he indicated, cmphasizing however that all
Governmental measures are directed toward a more simple and vigorous wartime
mode of living.
More Birthe, Fewer Deathe--Tojo pointed out that the population situation is
satisfactory, since births have attained unprecedented figures while deaths,
conversely, are decreasing.
Asks Budget Approval--Tojo asked the Imperial Diet for speedy approval of the
budget and other bills being presented.
WORK HARD TO PLFASF THF FMPFROR
In a Japanese-language broadcast to Japan and the Fmpire (Jan. 27, 11:00 p:m.
EWT), Tokyo quoted Premier Tojo as follows: "At this. time, on the occasion
of the reconvocation cer mony, we have received a most gracious Imperial Rescript
for which we are very deeply moved. It is to be desired that each of us shall
prosecute our special occupations with an all-out effort, that we might attain
the objective of the war in heimony, thus bringing satisfaction to the heart of
our Sovereign. The Emperor most graciously proceeded to the state shrine last
Dec. 12 and, in the midst of the prosecution of a war, the concern of the
Emperor is indeed e heretofore unprecedented occasion. We have been most deeply
moved upon hearing of His Majesty's most gracious deed

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.99)
-6
Pledges Aid To Army- "We firmly pledge that we, the people, shall renew our
determination with the preparedness to fight through to the very end, thus
doing our share in compensation to the Imperial forces.
Unparalleled Victory-"Reminiscing, a little more than a yeer has passed since
the outbreak of the Greater East Asia War and, at preeent; the Fmpire, with the
brave fighting of the officers and men of the Imperial forces, together with
the cooperation of the people on the home front, under the august virtue of
the Fmperor, has achieved a great war result which is unparelleled in the world,
and is fighting through to victory in the road of right, with the objective
of destroying Britain and America, which 1s indeed an occasion for hearty
congratulations.
Salute To Army--"I, here together with you, extend my heartfelt respects to the
officers and men of the Imperial forces on the front lines who, night and day,
continue to fight through, furiously, with death defying spirit. And to my
brethren of the nation who are striding forward to the straight path of in-
creasing fighting strength by overcoming ail difficulties, I express my
heartfelt apprcciation At the same time on this ocasion I, together with
you, reverently offer my deepest respects to the epirits of the brave and loyal
men who died on the field of battle, and I extend my sincere sympathy to the
wounded and sick and to the bercaved familics....
MANCHUKUO IS STRONG PRODUCTION BASF
"At this time, in Manchukuo the (path of the nation) is becoming increasingly
stronger, and Manchukuo is sharing its truf national mission with the Empire.
As its part of the Greatrr East Asia War, (Manchukuo) is now exerting its
efforts to the progrcss of war production, contributing greatly to the increase
of our fighting strength and splendidly manifesting its strength as a production
base of the Greater Fast Asia. The present progress and perfection of Manchukuo
is indeed reassuring, as it points out the unique Greater Fast Asia of tomorrow.
Nanking Stronger--"The Nanking Government, under the wisr guidance of Premier
Wang, is daily strengthening its power and on Jan. 9 the Nanking Government
of China entered into a state of war against Britain and America. I here
extend my profound respects to the determination of thr Nanking Government which
resolutely rosc in a united spirit under Premier Wang.
U.S. Retrocessions- "Confused by this arrangement of the Fmpire (that is, return-
ing Concessions and relinquishing extraterritorial rights- Ed.), Britain and
America, on Jan. ll, made an absolutely valuelese declaration which promised
many retrocessions of settlements, for which we are very much humbled.
Ties With Axis--"Turning to Furope, our friendly nations led by Gormany and
Italy are making their ties with the Empire ever stronger and, overcoming all
difficulties, are manifeeting without reserve their great war strength every-
where, which is astounding the world They are further developing advantageous
offensive operations by consolidating the invinciblr positions hitherto acquired.

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.95)
AFRICAN FRONT IS JUST A RIPPLE
ion such as exists on tho North Africen front is nothing mose
m the long form of the wer, and docs not affrot the general wer
thation. This new situation rather signifire the opportune coming of the
*pening of thorough attacks to be madr on the Britieh and American armies.
Tripertite Mutuality--"Thus, in the cast and wrst, Germany and Italy have made
their prcperetions and, at thc eam time, are manifesting their greater
tendrnoy of giving importanc- in the mutuel war with the Fmpirr, and are
working in reciprocel cfforic to firm a structurr of making ettacke upon our
common nomies, Britain and Am-rica.
Allies' Struggle--"In contrast to this. Dritain end Amrice, either for selfish
intereste or irr ep ctiv of thrir wisdom, arr elrrady rrvraling on ill-fevored
strugglr in thr midet of tho war.
Salute To Axie-. "Rrcalling thr brilllont activitirs of our friondly nations,
and (oonfidont of) th-ir brillient futurr, I, togothrr with you, rxtend my
hrartfelt rrsp cts end gratitud, for threr frirndly netions' grrut achievements
up to datr. Furthrr, I rxtrnd my gratitud to thr frirndly nations (for their)
remarkablc cooprration to thr Fmplre, and carnrstly pray for our futurr success
in war
PUNISH THOSF WHO DO NOT UNDTRCTAND
"It is truly beyond songretulations thot, under wartim conditione, the
inhebitente of tns various oreas in the southorn r gions are ncw ehowing signs of
sinc-re cooperation towards a new construction, shining in trillisncr in the august
virtue of His Imperiol Mujrsty The Jepanrer Goverumrnt, from thr very boginning,
has taken steps to punish thoa- wio do not undr rstand the trur motives of
our country, but thosr who havr rr- stubliahrd themer lvrs und,r our direction
are accorded the love cxisting br twron mother and son.
Conquered Territorice--"Peacr end order hay brrn compl tely restorcd in Malay,
Sumatre, Djawa, Bornro, and thr Celrbes, undrr thr 1 adership of our Imperiel
forcrs, end the inhabitanto are gladly giving th ir carvicrs in industry. The
Imperial Government, in response to the ch rishrd drsire of the inhebitants,
hes plodged thom security, and is stradily producing concrots rosults in this
phese.
Peaor In Burma--"Peacr end ordor heyr alrrady bern restorod in Burme, end Burma
1s responding to the immuteblr policy of the Imporial Govornment, extending
whole hourted cooperation to the Japen sr forces on the spot, in complete
unity and under the lradership of Ch:ef Fxrcutiv- Administretor U Bamaung, end
1s steadily progressing toward thr catablishmont of Burme for the Burmesr,
thereby continuing to xtend eplrndid rfforts in thr construction of Grreter
Fest Asia. This fact is the subject of thr admiretion of thr Imprrial Government.

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.95)
8
Batiafaction--"To. be able to make this clear (that is, Burmese
ende.Ed) in this Dict, is e great satisfaction to the Impcrial
rnt, and this is bryond xpression of congratulations for the sake of
ae well ae for th- sakc of a new Greater Fast Asia.
d Indian Leadere--"However, Britain, with her attitude still unchanged,
restrd and interned thr lraders of Indian ind-pondenor crcating further
(hatred) among the fiery and indignant Indian masece."
ommunicatione should br addressed to the Chiof Faitor, Forrign Broadcast In-
1gence Service, 1424 K St. N W , Washington, D.C (Fxecutive 3620, Branch

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.97)
DCR
MR HORYBLCK
DEPARTMENT OF STATE FE 1 1943
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN
February 16, 1943
Reference the underlying copy of a
Tokyo broadcast as monitored by the F.B.I.S.
This contains a statement of the Tokyo
Board of Information in regard to the
Convention of Amity and Cultural Collaboration
between Japan a nd Bulgaria signed at Tokyo
on February 11, 1943.
After the usual preamble, the Conven-
tion (1) reaffirms the relations of amity
and confidence between the two countries,
(2) provides for the mutual promotion,
"as far as possible", of cultural relations
between the two countries, and (3) states
that the Convention became effective from
the date of its signature.
It is obvious that this Convention can
not be implemented to any degree at the
present time and that it is merely a
political gesture.
894.76
rT]
Copic sentito
ED
FE:Benninghoff:MS
EU
TD
PS

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.96)
A122
XYO (DOMEI) IN EN
IT SIOO AM TO THE WORLD
(TEXT) "TOKYO
ENTAL WITH THE CELEBRATION OF EMPIRE
DAY, THE BOARD OF
JION TODAY ANNOUNCED RATIFICATION OF
THE CONVENTION OF
D CULTURAL COLLABORATION BETWEEN JAPAN AND
BULGARIA, TO FURTI
ANCE THE FRIENDLY RELATIONS EXISTING BETWEER
THEM, THEREBY DEE
INTHE MUTUAL UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE PEOPLE
OF THE TWO NATIONTH TEXT OF THE ANNOUNCEMENT ISSUED BY THE
BOARD OF INFORMATINFOLLOWS:
CONVENTION FOR THE
RELATIONS EXISTING
 THE GOVERNMENTS OF JAPAN AND BULGARIA
CONVENTION OF AMITY AND CULTURAL COLLABORATICN THE AIM OF WHICH
IS TO DEEPEN THE MUTUAL UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE PEOPLES OF THE
TWO COUNTRIES BY REAFFIRMING THEIR RELATIONS OF AMITY AND PROMOTING
THEIR CULTURAL INTERCOURSE.
894.76
THE CONVENTION WAS SIGNED PY MASAVUKI TANI MINISTER OF FOREIGN
AFFAIRS. AND YANCO PEYEFF. BULGARIAN MINISTER TO JAPAN AT THE
OFFICIAL RESIDENCE OF THE FOREIGN MINISTER.
THE TEXT OF THE CONVENTION OF AMITY AND CULTURAL COLLAFORATION
BETWEEN JAPAN AND BULGARIA FOLLOWS:
THE IMPERIAL GOVERNMENT OF JAPAN AND THE ROYAL GOVERNMENT OF
BULGARIA, DESIROUS OF AFFIRMING PY SOLEMN ACT, AND OF STRENGTHENING
N
AMICABLE RELATIONS WHICH HAPPILY EXIST BETWEEN THE TWO COUNTRIES.
AND BEING EQUALLY ANIMATED EY THE DESIRE FOR DEVELOPING CULTURAL
RELATIONS BETWEEN THE TWO COUNTRIES. AND THUS DEEPENING THE MUTUAL
UNDERSTANDING OF THE TWO PEOPLES. HAVE AGREED UPON THE FOLLOWING
PROVISIONS.
P
"ARTICLE ONE--THE TWO GOVERNMENTS HEREBY REAFFIRM THE RELATIONS
OF AMITY AND MUTUAL CONFIDENCE EXISTING BETWEEN THE TWO COUNTRIES.
rT
hsj
G
ARTICLE TWO--THE TWO GOVERNMENTS SHALL PROMOTE, AS FAR AS
LED
POSSIBLE. THE CULTURAL RELATIONS BETWEEN THE TWO COUNTRIES AND
39
SHALL ASSURE THEIR CLOSEST COLLABORATION FOR THIS PURPOSE.
ARTICLE THREE--THE PRESENT CONVENTION SHALL ENTER INTO OPERATION
FROM THE DATE OF ITS SIGNATURE, AND SHALL REMAIN IN FORCE FOR 1O
YEARS. IT SHALL BE PROLONGED BY TACIT RENEWAL YEAR BY YEAR. UNLESS
EITHER OF THE TWO GOVERNMENTS SHALL HAVE GIVEN NOTICE TO THE
OTHER SIX MONTHS BEFORE THE EXPIRATION OF ITS INTENTION TO TERMINATE.
EMS
2/11 928A

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.96)
COMMISSIONERS
FOR INTER - OFFICE CORRE
JAMES LAWRENCE FLY, CHAIRMAN
T. J. SLOWIE, SECRETARY
PAUL A. WALKER
NORMAN S. CASE
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
GEORGE HENRY PAYNE
WASHINGTON. D. C.
T. A. M. CRAVEN
November 17 1942
RAY C. WAKEFIELD
DEPARTMENT O!
RACETV
C. J. DURR
NOV 20942
Forward in Pouch
NOV 2 1 1942
For. Act. Cor.
11942
MEMORANDUM TO: Mr. DeWolf
The attached unsealed envelope contains "Radio Report
on the Far East", an assemblage and summary of political,
economic and other items broadcast by the Tokyo and other
Japanese-controlled radios about current cevelopments in
Japan and the occupied territories of Asia and the Pacific.
As you know, radio is one of the very few sources of
information about the Far East; the Ministry of Information,
the Political Warfare Executive and other British ministries
894.76/11
are very anxious to have this aocument in London semi-monthly
as it is issued. We would appreci:te it very much if you could
transmit this ana succeeding issues to London by diplomatic
pouch.
Honrs n. Gm, Jr.
Harold N. Graves, Jr.
4
Foreign Broadcast Intelligence Service
PS/JW
NOV 2 3 1942
FILED

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.95)
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
FOREIGN BROADCAST INTELLIGENCE SERVICE
A. M. GRAVEN
1424 K STREET N. W.
AYC. WAKEFIELD
WASHINGTON, D. C.
C. J. DURR
Divisidn of
January 13, 1943
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JAV241943
IAN 151042
IR03
Depa. tment of State
Mr. Maxwell M. Hamilton
Chief, Division of Far Eastern Affairs
Department of State
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Hamilton:
In response to the request contained in your letter
of Januy 9th, we are dding your Division to those
who receive the Radio Report on the Far East regularly
894.76/11
as it is issued. he are also sending you the back
numbers.
We are very much pleased to hear th't you find
K，
the Daily Reports and other publications regarding the
Far East of use to you.
Sincerely yours,
Pobutweigh
5
Robert D. Leigh
Director
JAN 1 5 1943
FILED
PS /JW
FORDEFENSE
BUY
UNITED
STATES
SAVINGS
BONDS
AND STAMPS

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.92)
EU
TELEGRAM RECEJYED
DCA
BE
This telegram must be
Dated March 8, 1943
plosely paraphrased be-
fore being communicated
to anyone. (SC)
FROM Rec'd 4: 25 p.m.
65R
CNB
Secretary of State
fiee
Washington
Tleg
Divisiono
129, March 8, 4 p.m.
FAR EASTER
MAR121943
Reference my immediately preceding 128 March 8
094.70/1
p.m.
#S
A marked difference in tone has been noted in
Japanese broadcast summaries received by the
Embassy since the beginning of the year. The note
3
of triumph and confidence which narked the Decemoer
C:
2
elebrations is gone, and has been succeeded by
a pessinistic outlook concerning prospects for the
P
final outcome of the Pacific war and by emphasis
/L
on the difficulties confronting Japan and its Allies
C.
in many fields, particularly supply, raw materials,
C
APR 3-1943
OF CONMEROIA. AFFAIRS
aricultural deficiencies, and labor reserves.
FILED Contie
The people are constantly being exhorted to supreme
1943
efforts to increase production and to acceptance
个
2
of new sacrifices to enable eventual attainment of
Oss,
Buo
Japanese goals. There is now little talk of
Was
victory. Such a frank statement of difrieulties.
DIVISION OF
facing Japan as that conteined in the GermanouTIcAy STUDIEs
aik-2
MAR 8 91943
language
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.98)
-2~ #129, March 8, 4 p.m. from Moscow
language broadcast from Tokyo on January 18 has
not been noted previously.
STANDLEY
CSB

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.99)
PARAPHRASE OF TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FROM:
AMERICAN EMBASSY, MoscoW
TO:
Secretary of State, Washington
DATED:
March 8, 1943
NUMBER: 129
SECRET
In connection with this message, I refer to my telegram
immediately preceding dated March 8, 1943, no. 128.
Since the beginning of the year, a marked difference in
tone has been noted in the broadcast summaries from Japan
received by the Embassy. Gone is the note of confidence and
triumph which marked the December celebrations. A pessimistic
outlook concerning the prospects for the final outcome of the
Pacific war succeeds the former note of triumph and emphasis
is stressed on the difficulties which confront Japen and its
allies in many fields, particularly in raw materials, agricul-
tural deficiencies, labor reserves, and supplies. In order
that the Japanese goals may eventually be attained, the people
are constantly being exhorted to the acceptance of new sacri-
fices and to supreme efforts to increase production. Little
talk of victory is now heard in these broadcasts. There has
not been previously noted such a frank statement of difficulties
facing Japan as that contained in the broadcast from Tokyo
on January 18 in the German language.
STANDLEY
DCA:CBF:JTM
3/18/43

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.95)
人
PREPARING OFFICE
TO BE TRANSMITTED
TELEGRAM SENT
X SBCRET X
Full rate
CONFIDENTIAL
Day letter
RESTRICTED
Night letter
Department of State
CLEAR
Charge Department:
PARTAIR
Full rate
"SC"
Day letter
Washington,
Night letter
Charge to
March , 1943
$ AMERICAN EMBASSY,
Thie cable wes rnt in ouantiml Code.
CHUNGKING (CHINA).
It en
.a d before
351
Y
A survey of summaries of Japanese broadcasts (especially
894.76/
those directed toward Europe) as reoeived by the Department
0
indicates that since the first of this year there has been a
change in tone. In December a note of triumph and confidence
was marked; now little talk of victory 1s heard. Greater
894.76
9
oulsural deficiencies, and the supply of raw materials. These
subjeots, as well as the need of further sacrifices to enable
Japan to reaoh its final objectives, are constantly mentioned
on the air.
Of particular interest was a broadcast in German to
Germany on January 18 which emphasized Japan's shipping dif-
C
ficulties as well as certain new restriotions on the supply
P
of suoh commodities as cigarettes and textiles and a reduotion
S
in the quality of rice. The admission was made that the
1t was
Japanese were seriously affeoted thereby but/added that they
realized that military objeotives could not be achieved withouti
discomfort.
CL
19

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.92)
TO DE TRANSISITED
OFFICE
BATE WHETHER
SECRIET
TELEGRAM SENT
CONFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTED
fat letter
CLEAR
Department of State
Department:
PARTAIR
Full rate
Day letter
-2-
Washington.
Night letter
Charge to
Japan's European allies that Japan had sound reasons for
not having attacked Siberia or diverted more shipping to
3.71√
run the European blockade. They might also be designed to
make future suocesses stand out more favorably, to explain
future defeats, or to act as a screen to cover impending
activities.
Huel
894.76/116
MS
120
AS
FE: HMB: MHP
FE
PA/H
OR
3.71
MAR 15 19435M
Enctphored by
Sant by aperaber
M.,
10-20000-1

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.90)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
neht of State
JIB
HoscoW
This telegram must bE
closEly parap-rasEd E- FRoMatEd Harch 8, 1943
fore being communioated
c/t
to anyonE. (SC)
Rc'd 10:49 a.1., th
File
4
正
GFR
Washington.
cary
894.76
126, March 8, 1 .m. (SECT10: ONE).
The followang s seat to luibyahev.
107, FEbrur 37, 10 a.. ( )
DIVISION OF
POLITICAL STUDIES
FOR EOARD OF ECC IC RTARE.
MAR20 1943
7)
JapanEse broadcasts.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Chang Chun Cheneet Deoember 24
(onE) it
is
89.76
has apropriated 30,Ooo yuans to sstablish a 3ta E
stud farm in the Jh rar uistrict in order to i  ravE
the breed and EncouracE  orsE raicang in Hongolic.
(Two) On his rEturn from thE Eco comic JonfcrencE
at Tokyo Samada, Darector of thE auchurian Company
for the product on va s le of articles of
P
P
OIVISION OF COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
S
nacessity, stated tis thE people of hanchupi. uot
S
make every Effort to ancrease procuc tion of all
S
types of oods in or er to rive pitish und er.can
101
influence fron Eastere sia.
MAR 3 0 1943
2
FILED
Tokyo
mgk

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.95)
-2- #128, March 8, 1 P.m (SECTION ONE), from Hoscow
Tokyo English Dec mber 26 (onE) JapanesE
authorities in Man:la avE ainounced thE coiaplet_on
of recons truction vork in districts in the southern
half of Luzon which sufiEred danngE through wilitary
operations. Traffic on railways which have been re-
stored throuch Efforts of the JapanesE authorities
and thE local popula i n will bE resumed shortly.
Stepe are being taken to place all Thilippine rellvays
in opsrat on by the end of iarch. Railvay reconstruction
work which  as begn n September was completed sooner
than Expec hed thanks to the cooperation of the
Philipinos.
(Tvo) It is reporte: from Nanking that thE
authorities intend to take steps to strengthen the
corporation for thE dEvelopuent of CEntral China
which at present com rises 13 sEparatE conpan.es and
controls ten others. ThesE me s res will assist in
Establishing closer cooperation between Japan and
China.
Tokyo English JEcElber 28: thE program for thE
admint tration of the ThilippinEs during 1943 ms been
published in Mhnila. The staff of admiuistrative
Employees will bs Expanded considerably.
ThE JPOnESE
Association

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.95)
-3- #126, March 8, 1 P.m. (SECTION ONE), from Ioscow
Association vill bE Eorcanized so that
it can assist
thE administration. ll schools and universities
Vill bE rEopEned. All  inEs  ill bE rEstorEd and
placed in operat:on. Cotton cultivation vill bE
Extended to thE EntirE country: Financial provisions
for this program have already been made.
Tokyo Italian DEcel ber 28: the JapanEsE command
has Established bases in thE strategically important
Gilbert Islands and mas constructed a series of com-
lex defensivE and of EnsivE fortificatlons.
Tokyo JapanesE DecEmber 29 (one) ccord ng to
rEports from Chang Jhan thE mnin inspection bureau
has announcEd that it ic plannEd to bu:ld an ExtensivE
network of railvays ant. ighways in .anchukuo.
Workers will be reer ited cliefly from re-settlers
(Two) ThE Ministry of  inancE announced today
that 90 per cent of ttE quota in thE savings ct."cign
was reached in the Tame gucci and Ibaraki prefectures
and 80 per cent in the Akiyama and Hirosima prefectures.
(ThrEE) ThE JapanecE Hinis try of Iat rior has
announced a ten per cent rccuction in the supoly gas
for household purposes.
Tokyo JapanEsE DEcEmber 30: (onE)
on an
inspection

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.95)
-4- #/126) March 8, 1 p.m) (SICTION OHE), from Joscow
inspEction tour of thE defensE dispostions in Ibaraki
prefecturE rimE inister Tojo appealed to thE youth
to put forth all their Efforts in order to increasE
agricultural production.
ST:.DLEY
HPD

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.92)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
JG
Loscow
This telegram rust be
closely paraphrascd be-
Dated Larch 8, 1943
to anyonE.(C)
REc1C 5:52 p.m.
SecrEtery of Stcte,
Wachington.
120, Larch 8, 1 P.. (SE0T10H TWO)
THE FOLLOTING TELTGRE LHS SELT TO KUIBYSIEV
107, PEbruary S7, 10 e n. SECTIOH THO
(2) Nev banks have bEen Established in Ianile
with the asoistance of the Japan css cuthorities
and mriuting bankis have inereaned the scope
of tisir opesntions. ll7 persone were greduated
today fron the intermedictE schools opened
after the JapanssE occupation. Ths craductes
vill bs placed in industry end conetruction
work. (S) A veckly illustrated paper devoted
to photogre hs of mil tery cetivitico on the
various Asiatic fronta has bE jan publication
in Tolye. The same paper will soon be published
in Changchun.
Changchun, Chinese, January 2: ThE program
for the d:vzlopment of ianchuluo in thE second
phasE of its cxistence and the law introducing
labor service for young peoplE entered into
Effect on January 1.
Tokyo;

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.96)
-2- 126, Larch 8, 1 p.m.(SECTIOH TWO) from Loscow
Tokyo: English, January 2: Peaceful cctivity
is developing on thE Island of Timor. Kupang
is thE most important center in this part of the
pacific. ∴griculture is being Expanded rapidly,
particulcrly thE growing of vEcetables. JapanEsE
has bzen introduced in Timor's schools.
Changchun, ChinesE January 5: The Government
of Manchuluo plans a serics of measures to aid
agricultural developnent. ∴ recent conferemcE
of provincial cgricultural directors decided
to conbinE provincial and district Experimental
stations and to makE plcns for their cctivities.
During the present year attention will bE civn
to thE preparction of ccricultural specialists.
Changchun, ChinesE Januery 6: According
to rEports from Tokyo PrimE -inister Tojo
yEsterday visited c zinc factory in the outskirts
of Tokyo cnd called upon the worters of cpply
still grecter nergy end increasE thE output
of zinc.
Changchun, JapenesE, January 6: During
the past yEar thE number of opium dealers in
Lanchuluo has bEen reducEd 65%. ThE policE
is sucaessfully fighting cgainst the scle of
opiurm.
Ianila, Spanish, Janucry 6: (1) ThE Bureau
for

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.95)
-3- 126, Larch 8, 1 p.m. SEction Twc) from Loscow
for enlarging cotton plantations states that
the Philippines vill bE able to Export
considerable more cotton this year than last.
This yEar's crop is very Good exceeding last
years! and the quality is Excellent.
(2) Sanitary Services in the Philippines
are conducting an cctive canpaign agcinst
contagious ciseases. Specicl sanitary inapection
squads havE been organized in various provinces
to inducE cleanliness and combat disEasE.
Tolgyo, JapanesE , January 6: In viEv of
the necsasity of rEgulating rubber consumption
a cormission of 350 mmbers has been formed
in the Ministry of Commercε and Industry to
handls questions involving rubber purcheses.
Changchun, ChinesE Jonucry 8: ThE Linistry
of National Welfars has announced thE admission
of lo0 students to courses in which they will
be trainec to combat the plague.
(END CF LESSIGE)
STHDLEY
ICR

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.99)
PARAPHRASE OF TELEGRAM RECEIVED
AMERICAN EMBASSY, MOSCOW
TO:
Secretary of State, Washington
DATED:
March 8, 1943
NUMBER:
126
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
Please be advised that I have sent the following
telegram to Kuibyshev under date of February 27, 1943
as no. 107.
The following summary of Japanese broadcasts should
be of interest to the BEW.
December 24, 1942 in Chinese from Chang Chun:
1. In order to establish a State stud farm in
the Charer district for the purpose of improving the
breed and encouraging horse raising in Mongolia, it
is reported from Kalgan that the Mongolian Government
has appropriated 300,000 yuans.
2. Simada, Director of the Manchurian Company
for the production and sale of articles of primary
necessity, stated upon his return from the economic
conference at Tokyo that in order to drive British
and American influence from Eastern Asia, the people
of Manchuria must make every effort to increase
their production of all types of goods.
December 26, 1942 in English from Tokyo:
1. It has been announced by the Japanese
authorities in Manila that reconstruotion work in
districts

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
districts in the southern half of Luzon which suf-
fered damage as the result of military operations
has been completed. It is expected that traffic
will be resumed shortly on the railways which have
been restored through the efforts of the local
population and the Japanese authorities. Measures
are being taken to place all railways in the Philip-
pines in operation by the end of March. Thanks to
the cooperation of the Philipinos the railway con-
struction work which was begun in September was
completed sooner than expected.
2. Nanking reports that the authorities there
intend to t ake steps designed to strengthen the
Corporation for the Development of Central China
which at the present time comprises thirteen
separate companies and controls ten others. Closer
cooperation between Japan and China will be estab-
lished by the contemplated measures.
December 28, 1942 in Italian from Tokyo:
The Japanese command has established bases
in the strategically important Gilbert Islands
and has constructed a series of complex defensive
and offensive fortifications.
December 28, 1942 in English from Tokyo:
The program for the administration of the
Philippines

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
Philippines during 1943 has been published in
Manila. The staff of administrative employees
will be expanded considerably. The Japanese
Association will be reorganized so that it can
assist the administration. All schools and uni-
versities will be reopened. All mines will be
restored and placed in operation. Cotton cultiva-
tion will be extended to the entire country.
Financial provisions for this program have already
been made.
December 29, 1942 1n Japanese from Tokyo:
1. Chang Chun reports that the main inspec-
tion bureau has announced that it is planned to
build in Manchukuo an extensive network of railways
and highways. Work for this project will be per-
formed by recruits selected chiefly from among
re-settlers.
2. It was announced today by the Ministry of
Finance that the prefectures of Ibaraki and Yemagucci
had reached 90% of theirquota in the savings campaign.
The prefecture of Hirosima and Akiyamahave attained
80% of their quota.
3. The supply of gas for household purposes
has been reduced by 10% according to an announcement
by the Japanese Ministry of Interior.
December

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.99)
December 30, 1942 in Japanese from Tokyo:
1. Prime Minister Tojo while conduoting an
inspection tour of the defenee positions in the
prefecture of Ibaraki appealed to the youth to
exert their utmost efforts for the purpose of
increasing agricultural production.
2. The Japanese authorities in Manila have
lent their assistance in establishing new banks and
existing banks have increased the scope of their
operations. From the intermediate schools opened
after the Japanese occupation 117 persons were
graduated today. The graduates will be placed in
construction work and in industry.
3. The publication in Tokyo of a weekly illus-
trated paper devoted to photographs of military
activities on the various Asiatic fronts has been
inaugurated. It is intended very son the same paper
will be published in Chang Chun.
January 2, 1943 in English from Tokyo:
Peaceful activity is developing on the Island
of Timor. Kupeng is the most important center in
this part of the Pacific. Agriculture is being
expanded rapidly, particularly the growing of vege-
tables. Japanese has been introduced in Timor's
schools.
January 2, 1943 in English from Chang Chun:
The

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.98)
-5
The program for the development of Manchukuo
in the second phase of its existence and the law
introducing labor service for young people entered
into effect on January 1.
January 5, 1943 in Chinese from Chang Chun:
A series of measures designed to aid in the
development of agriculture is being planned by the
Government of Manchukuo. It was decided at a
recent conference of provincial agricultural direc-
tors to combine district and provincial experimental
stations and to make plans for their activities.
Attention will be given during the present year to
the preparation of agricultural specialists.
January 6, 1943 in Japanese from Chang Chun:
During the past year the number of opium dealers
in Manchukuo has been reduced 65%. The police is
successfully fighting against the sale of opium.
January 6, 1943 in Japanese from Tokyo:
In view of the necessity of regulating rubber
consumption a commission of 35o members has been
formed in the Ministry of Commerce end Industry to
handle questions involving rubber purchases.
January 6, 1943 in Spanish from Manila:
1. The Bureau for enlarging cotton plantations
states that the Philippines will be able to export
considerable more cotton this year than last. This
years'

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.99)
-6
year's crop is very good, exceeding last year's, and
the quality is excellent.
2. Sanitary Services in the Philippines are
conducting an active campaign against contagious
diseases. Special santary inspection squads have
been organized in various provinces to induce
cleanliness and combat disease.
January 6, 1943 in Chinese from Chang Chun:
According to reports from Tokyo Prime Minister
Tojo yesterday visited a zinc factory in the out-
skirts of Tokyo and called upon the workers of
apply still greater energy and increase the output
of zinc.
January 8, 1943 in Chinese from Chang Chun:
It has been announced by the Ministry of
National Welfare that 100 students have been
admitted to courses in which they will be trained
as to how the plague should be combated.
STANDLEY
DCA:BBB:EMW
3/11/43

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.94)
FEO
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
BE
Moscow
This telegram must be
FROM
closely paraphrased be-
Dated March 8, 1943
fore being communicated
to anyone. (SC)
Rec'd 12:30 p.m..9th
OF CURRENT
DIVISION
LIAISON
Secretary of Stat
DIVISION OF
MAR 2 6 1943
FLIAOPLAN AFFAIRS
Washington
20
128, March 8, 3 p.m. (SECTION ONE)
FOR BOARD OF ECONOMIC WARFARE
Divisicn of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Japanese broadcasts
91943
Tokyo English January 7.
R.
894.76/1
One. Representatives of Germany and Manchutuo
have areed to negotiate an economic end commercial
agreement.
DIVISION OF WC
Two. It is reported from Shenghaa that
the
MAR 24 1943Chief of Staff of the Chinese Nationalist Army has
8
DEPARTMENT OF STAT& nounced that the Government intends to reorganize
its armed forces and to create a new technically equippod
army. He also enumerated steps taken by his gover ment
B
DIVISION OF COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
in the field of war production and reconstruction in-
s
S
cluding the construction of new ailways and the
repair of established lines and the construction
of new homes and factories and of special equipment
C
therefore.
2
MA
Three. On their return from a trip to Jaya meniers
R
2
of a Jap military mission steted that they were impressed
6
by the

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.98)
-2- #123, March 8, 3 p.m. (SECTION ONE) from Moscow
by the enthusiasm with which the local population was
cooperating in the work of reconstruction An important
railway line which was destroyed by the retreeting
Hollandeers has resumod operations.
Tokyo Gorman. . January twelfth.
One. At a conference convened by the War Council
of Nationalist China 70 representatives of various
firms discussed the problem of increa:ing the
oroductivity of labor, the growth of war industry and
the accumulation of food reserves.
Two. A new trade agreement between Japan and
French Indio China was signed at Saigon on January
11.
Three. After six months research Professor Tanimuki
of the Japanese liicro--biological Universitv has
isolated the bacillus through which malaria is tr nsmitted
in the southern regions of the Pacific and has discovered
an antidote which completely cures that patient within
two days.
Tokyo、 Japanese. January 12. A member of the
Coal Control Committee states that the war requires
increased production of all tvpes of goods particularly
coal which 1s needed in war industries for the fleet
and for transport. Reilway workers should exercise
the strictest

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.99)
-3- #128, March 8, 3 p.m. (SECTION ONE) from Moscow
the strictest economy in the use of coal. Coal
miners must strive still further to increase their
output.
Spanish January 12. Several municipal regulations
concerning retail trade have been published at Manila.
The sale of butter will be resumed tirough retail
shops after a twp weeks interuption. To prevent
price increases the public is requested to report to
specially organized pblice units, instences of prices
beyond the limits fixed and of refusal to sell
utter at the established prices.
The unrestricted
sale of powdered soap will begin shortly.
Tokyo English. January 14. Folldwing the declaratic
of war by Nationalist China against Britain and the
United States the Japanese Government decided to turn
ovor l04 additional enterprises to their Chinese
owners. 140 enterpris.es formerly belonging to
Chinese remain under Japanese control.
Tokyo Italian. January 14
One. Japan has turned over to Nationalist China
eicht factories operated by Japanese personnel among
which cre two textile mills two cement factories
and a flour mill. 36 factories belonging to China
are still directed by Japan.
Two. Postal survices in occupied Malaya
Sumatra Hong Kong

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.99)
-4- #128, March 8, 3 pim. (SECTION ONE) from Moscow
Sumatra Hong Kong New Guinea and Burma have been
very limited. It has only been possible to
exchange periodioals and postcards with Japani Now
books and letters may be s ent and postal operations
are approaching the pre war level.
Tokyo English. January 15.
One. It is renorted from Peiping that a representat
of the North China Development Company states that
production of coal and iron ore tier is expanding
rapidly. Noticeable progress is being made in
railway and utility construction for which one billion
four hundred million yen has been appropriated this
year. An excellent cotton crop is anticipated.
Two. It is reported from Singapore that postal
servic? has been resumed between Sumatra Java Burma
Thailand Japan Malaya China Manchukuo and French Indo
China.
Three. Following adoption of a low defening the
functions of administrative agencies for the duration
of the war a national economic council will be orgenized
in Nat:onalist China to direct thc economic development
of the country. A Ministry of Public Security
will be set up and a Ministry of Foods will be formed
to control agriculture and to fix prices on
agricultural products.
Changchun Chinese. January 15.
One

=== Page 433 === (confidence 1.00)
-5- #128, March 8, 3 p.m. (SECTION ONE) from Moscow
One. An agreement for the ex-change
radio broadcasts between Germany and Manchukuo
was signed today at Changchun.
Two. A confer:noe was held today at the
Ministry of National Welfare to adopt measures
for fighting the plague. A report on the campaign
against the plague in 1942 was submitted and plans laid
for the current year.
Tokyo English. January 18th. The military
authorities at Singapore are assisting in the
development of scientifio research. New research in-
stitutes have been created and those already
operating have extended their activities. Research
institutes are trying to discover new sources
of strategic materials to develop local industries
and to expand the food industry.
Similar institutes
are being established in Malaya Java and the
Philippines.
Tokyo, Italian. January 18. It is reported
from Singapore that the Japanese authorities in
"alaya began preparations in December for working
the salt mines. These preparations will be
completed by March and the population of this
province will receive sufficient salt to meet its
requirements. It is expected that surplus will be
available

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.97)
6 #128, March 8, 8 pi m. (SECTION ONE) from Moscow
available for industrial use.
Tokyo Japanese January 18. In a radio broadoast
Isikava Pirosi r presenting the Ministry of Trade
and Industry urged the greatest economy in the use
of consumer goods. On January 19 a government decree
concerning certain organizations for the sale of
various commodities will onter into effect.
Thüs
dccree must be carefully observed. On February 1
1942 we were obliged to introduoe a card rationing
system in order to provide supolies to the population
accoraing to plan. The rationing system has fully
justificd itself. The government is taking all pos ible
measures to increase production of basic consumer goods
but the population must cooperate and reconcile
thomselves to limited supolies
Tokyo German January 18. Special broadeast
to Germany.
One. It is well nown that Japan is experiencing
certain difficulties with maritime transport. Recently
for instance a traveller in the South Seas might
observe a considereble number of oiling vessels which
arc used to trnasport raw materials from the countrics
of this area. Furthermore the Japanese are using large
refts which drift with the current for transport
purposcs

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-, #123, March e, 8 p.m. (SECTION ONE) from Moscow
purposes.
Tww. In Tokyo now people are discussing certain
restrictions in the supply of commodities which were in-
trocuced recently with a view to organizing distriouti'n
morc rationally during the war. Rations of cigerettes
and textile goods have been reduced. Larger quantities
of unclcaned rice will be used. Rationalization
of course soriously effects the Japanese but they
realize that they must live less comfortably to attain
important military objectives.
STANDLEY
CSB

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
LSII
Hoscow
This telegram must bE
olosely peraphrased bE- Dated
Harch 8, 1943
forE bEing cormunicated FROM
to anyonE. (SC)
Rec'd
5:14 a.m. 9th
SEcretary of State,
Vashington,
128, IIarch C, 3 p.n. (SECTION T10)
Chang Chun, ChinesE, January 22: thE availability
of an adequatE rEservoir of mannower is an important
condition for thE rEalization of thE Economic dEvElopment
of anchukuo. For this reason the government has
introduced labor sErvice.. In all countries a considerablE
nortion of thE rural population is now mobilized for
industrial work. anchukuo has a largE population,
but likevisE a large territory; for tiis reason our
agricultural situation will further dEteriorate. To
take up the slacl: in agriculture and rEleasE a portion
of farm workers to industry, the government has been
considering means of improving agricultural Equipment and
modernizing mEthods of cultivation. ThE government has
also been maling Every Effort to recruit workers in
Horth China and has rEached an agreement on this
question with the authorities there. Foreign workers
arE unsatisfactory, however, sincE the turnover is
high and largE sums of money arE sent out of the
country.

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.95)
-2- 128 Harch 8, 3 p.m. (SECTION TWO) from LMoscow
country. Large regourges 8f raw materials are
availablE in the areas 8f the South Pacific occupied
by Jap forces but such materials cannot bE transported.
IHanchukuo must accordingly take meesures to producE more
iron for Japan and it is EssEntial that thErE bE a
corrEsponding increasE in coal production. The
Government has thereforE cEcided that all peasants
shall work in thE mines in their freE time although
they may return home when necessery to work the
fiεlds. Hanchurian women should abandon their
custon of sitting at homE and take their husbands'
places in thE fiElds thereby freeing thE men for
work in industry.
Tokyo, Italian, January 24 A commercial agreement
betwEen lanila and Sanghai has gonE into Effect.
PhilippinE goods such as sugar and jute vill bE
Exchanged for paper and other goods.
(EIHD IESCAGE)
STANDLEY
TTTIT

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.97)
PARAPHRASE OF TELEGRAM RECEIVED
American Embassy, Moscow
1-Nary
Secretary of State, Washington
1.aqu
DATE:
March 8, 1943
NUMBER: 128
1-FE(mee
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
Stanta
The message which follows is in regard to Japanese
3/10/43
broadcasts.
MEQ
January 7 from Tokyo in English.
1. It has been agreed by German and Manchukuan representative
to negotiate a commercial and economic agreement.
2. From Shangha1 it is reported that the Chinese
Nationalist Army's Chief of Staff has announced that it is the
intention of the Government to reorganize its armed forces and
to create a new technically equipped army. The Chief of Staff
also enumerated the steps which his government has taken in the
field of reconstruction and war production including the repair
of established railway lines, the construction of new railways,
the construetion of new factories and homes and construction
of special equipment for these factories.
3. It was stated by members of a Jap military mission on
their return from a trip to Java that the enthusiasm with which
the local population was cooperating in the work of reconstruc-
tion impressed them. Operations have been resumed on an
important railway line which the retreating Hollandeers had
destroyed.
January 12

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
January 12 from Tokyo in German.
1. The problemsof inoreasing the produotivity of labor,
the acoumulation of food reserves and the growth of war
industry were discussed by 7o representatives of various firms
at a conference convened by the War Council of Nationalist China.
2. On January 1l a new trade agreement between French
Indio China and Japan was signed at Saigon.
3. Professor Tanimuki of the Japanese Micro-biological
University after six months of research has isolated the bacillus
through which malaria 1s transmitted in the southern regions
of the Pacific and has discussed an antidote wnich completely
cures the patient within two days.
January 12 from Tokyo in Japanese. It was stated by a
member of the Coal Control Committee thet the war requires an
increased production of all types of goods especially coal which
is needed for transport, for the fleet and in war industries.
In using coal the strictest economy should be exercised by rail-
way workers. Coal miners must strive still further to increase
their output.
January 12 in Spanish. In Manila there has been published
several municipal regulations regarding retail trade. After
an interuption of two weeks the sale of butter will be resumed
through retail shops. In order to prevent increases in price
the public is requested to report to specially organized police
unit

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
mits, instances of refusal to sell butter at the established
prices and of prices beyond the fixed limits. The unrestrioted
sale of powdered soap will soon begin.
January 14 from Tokyo in English. The Jepanese Government
decided to turn over l04 additional enterprises to their Chinese
owners after Nationalist China had declared war against the
United States and Great Britain. The 104 enterprises formerly
belonging to the Chinese remained under the control of the
Japanese.
January 14 from Tokyo in Italian.
1. Eight factories operated by Japanese personnel, among
which are a flour mill, two textile mills and two cement
factories, have been turned over to Nationalist China by Japan.
ing
Japan still directs 36 factories belong to China.
2. Postal services have been very limited in occupied
New Guinea, Burma, Malaya, Hong Kong and Sumatra. It has only
been possible to exchange postcards and periodicals with Japan.
Postal operations are approaching the pre war level and letters
and books may now be sent.
January 15 from Tokyo in English.
1. From Peiping it 1s reported that it has been stated
by a representative of the North China Development Company that
production of iron ore and coal there is rapidly expanding.
This year one billion four hundred million yen has been
appropriated for railway and utility construction and noticeable
progress

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.99)
-4
rogress is being made in this. It is anticipated that there
will be an excellent cotton crop.
2. From Singapore it is reported that postal service
has been resumed between Manchukuo, Malaya, French Indo China,
China, Burma, Sumatra, Java, Japan and Thailand.
3. A national economic council to direct the economic
development of the country will be organized in Nationalist
China following the adoption of a law defening the functions
of administrative agencies for the duration of the war. A
Ministry of Public Security will be set up and a Ministry of
Foods to control agriculture and to fix prices on agricultural
products will be formed.
January 15 from Changchun in Chinese.
1. An agreement for the exchange of radio broadcasts
between Manchukuo and Germany was signed at Changchun today.
2. At the Ministry of National Welfare a conference was
held today to adopt measures for fighting the plague. At this
meeting there was submitted a report on the campaign against
the plague in 1942 and plans were laid for the current year.
January 18 from Tokyo in English. Assistance in the
development of a scientific research is being given by the
military authorities at Singapore. New research institutes
have been created and the activities of those already
operating have been extended. An attempt is being made by
research

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.99)
-5
research institutes to discover new sources of strategic
materials, to expand the food industry and to develop
local industries. In the Philipp&nes, Malaya and Java similar
institutes are being established.
January 18 from Tokyo in Italian. A report has been
received from Singapore that the Japanese authorities in Malaya
in December began preparations for working the salt mines.
These preparations will be completed by March and the
population of this province will receive sufficient salt to
meet requirements. It is believed that there will be an
available surplus for industrial use.
January 18 from Tokyo in Japanese. During the radio
broadcast Isikava Pirosi who was representing the Ministry of
Trade and Industry urged the greatest economy in the use of
consumer goods. A government decree concerning certain
organizations for the sale of various commodities will go into
effect on January 19. This decree must be observed carefully.
In order to provide supplies to the population according to
plan we were obliged on February 1, 1942 to introduce a system
of card rationing. The rationing system has fully justified
itself. All possible measures are being taken by the govern-
ment to increase the production of basic consumer goods but the
population must cooperate and reconcile themselves to limited
supplies.
January 18

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
January 18 from Tokyo in German. Special broadcast to
Germany.
1. It is a well known fact that certain difficulties
with maritime transport are being experienced by Japan. For
instance, recently a traveller in the South Seas might observe
a large number of oiling vessels which are used to transport
raw materials from the countries in this area. Furthermore
for transport purposes rafts which drift with the current are
being used by the Japanese.
2. At the present time people in Tokyo are discussing
certain restrictions in the supply of commodities which were
recently introduced with a view to organizing distribution more
rationally during the war. There has been a reduction in the
rations of textile goods and cigarettes. Larger quantities of
uncleaned rice will be used. Of course the Japanese are
seriously effected by the rationalization but it is realized
by them that they must live less comfortably to attain
important military objectives.
January 22 from Chang Chun in Chinese. An important
condition for the realization of the economic development of
Manchukuo is the availability of an adequate reserve of man-
power. Labor service has been introduced by the government
for this reason. At the present time a considerable portion
of the rural population is now mobilized for industrial work
1n

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.99)
-7
1 countries. There is a large population in Manchukuo
but it also has a large territory; for this reason our
agricultural situation will deteriorate still further. The
government has been considering means of improving agricultural
equipment and modernizing methods of cultivation in order to
release a portion of farm workers to industry and to take up
the slack in agriculture. Also the government has been making
every effort to recruit workers in North China and they have
reached an agreement with the authorities there on this question.
However, since the turn over is high and large sums of money
are sent out of the country, foreign workers are unsatisfactory.
In the areas of the South Pacific which the Jap forces occupy
there are large resources of raw materials available but these
materials cannot be transported. Accordingly, measures must
be taken by Manchukuo to produce more iron for Japan and it is
essential that the coal production be increased correspondingly.
Therefore, it has been decided by the government that during
their free time all peasants shall work in the minesalthough
they may return home when necessary to work the fields. The
custom of sitting at home should be abandoned by Manchurian
women and they should take their husbands' places in the fields
thereby freeing men for industrial work.
January 24 from Tokyo in Italian. A commercial agreement
between Shanghai and Manila has gone into effect. Paper and
other

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.96)
-8-
other goods will be exchanged for Philipping goods such as
jute and sugar.
The foregoing should be brought to the attention of the
Board of Economic Warfare.
STANDLEY
JRB
DCA:IDB:SSW
3-10-43

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.95)
ACCESS RESTRICTED
The item identified below has been withdrawn from this file:
Dipartruact of Shate Docnalt he, dG4o-194(RG59)
File Designation
1tem 8.94.76/119
IICE
216 194Z
Date
From ilitacy Intelligince Diucicon W.D.G.S.
To
In the review of this file this item was removed because access to it is
restricted. Restrictions on records in the National Archives are stated
in general and specific record group restriction statements which are
available for examination. The item identified above has been withdrawn
because it contains:
Security-Classified Information
Otherwise Restricted Information
GSA Censovdlip
5.16.1984
Authority
Date
GSA FORM 7117 (2-72)
GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.92)
plme.
DCA
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
l.
FMH
(Moscow)
De
This telegram must be FROM Kuibyshev
closely paraphrased be-
fore being communicated
Dated March 15, 1943
to anyone. (Sc)
Rec'd 2:50 a.m., 17th
Secretary of State,
894.76
A
Washington.
eut le ..
dew
260, March 15, 4 p.m.
894.76/102CF
Department's 77, February 10, 5 p.m. to Moscew.
A list of the Japanese radio stations, including
home broadcasts with wave lenghts and schedules, which
are audible in the Soviet Union was requested by the
Embussy in a note to the Foreign Office dated February
17 to which no response has yet been received.
Moscow will endeavor to subxit more frequent and
extensive reports, particularly When the shortage of
MAR 31 194
personnel there is overcore.
FILET
Repeated to Moscow.
DOOHAN
HPL
84
SION F OMMERGIA AFFAIRS
PS/
/SMS
1943

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.99)
PARAPHRASE OF TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FROM:
AMERICAN EMBASSY, (Moscow) Ku1byshev
TO:
Secretary of State, Washington
DATED:
March 15, 1943
NUMBER:
260
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
Reference is made herewith to the Department's
wire to Moscow of February 10, 1943, no. 77.
In a note to the Foreign Office dated February 17,
this Embassy requested a list of the Japanese radio
stations, including home broadcasts, with wave lengths
and schedules which are audible in the Soviet Union.
Up to now no reply to the Embassy's note has been
received.
Moscow will attempt to submit more extensive and
frequent reports, particularly when they are able to
overcome the shortage of personnel existing there.
This telegram has been repeated to Moscow for the
information of our officers.
DOOMAN
DCA:BES:EMW
3/18/43
66

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
EJ
MOBCOW
This telegram must be
closoly paraphrased be
FROM
Pated March 23, 1943
fore being communicated
mon of
AAS
1543
ES
UC:En
Washingtony.
DEPARTMENT OF/ETATE
1943
894.76
193, March 23, 11a.m. (SECTION N
FOR BOARD OF ECONOMIC WARFARE.
894.76/1
Scct.2
Japanese broadcasts.
Changchun Chinese December 30 a recruiting of-
fice will be established in Shanghai by the Ministry
of National Welfare of Manchukuo to hire technical
21
personnel for Manchurian industries. The project has
the support of Japanese authorities.
Manila Spanish January 25 owmers of all types of
radio receivers must submit them to the local authori-
ties for altcration before January 31. More than
20,000 sets have been altered to date but the time
PR S-1943
FILED
remaining is short and action should not be delayed.
Tokyo Japanese January 25 the Diroctor of the
Electric Share Company today discussed with tho Vice
P
Minister of War the construction of new power stations
S
AFFAIRS
oss, 2-war,
and the restriction of drafting for army service of
SMS
workers in the elcctrical industry.
Tokyo Spanish January 25 in a review of the war
a radio

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-#193, March 23, 11 a.m. (SECTION ONE) from Moscow
a radio commentator points out that the United States
is now bending every effort to increase armament pro-
duction particularly of tanks, ships and planes and
admits that the United States has now gained quanti-
tative superiority in these catagories. He adds how-
over that the decisive factors in present day war are
quality of armament man power reserves military science
and correct strategy and tactics in which fields Japan
retains the ascendency.
Tokyo German January 26.
One. Negotiations are taking place at Shanghai
for the exchange of goods between central China and
Inner Mongolia. China will export cotton medicines
and tobacco. Similar negotiations between Shanghai
and the Philippines are also being conducted:
Two. The Japanese military authorities in the
Philippines have announced that strict measures will
be taken against any resident Jew who attempts to in-
crease prices on foodstuffs or engage in speculation.
Tokyo Italian January 30.
The Japanese authorities in Java have decided
to devote greater attention to cotton cultivation.
A specially organized society will study soils and
climatic

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-#193, March 23, 11 a.m. (SECTION ONE) from Moscow
climatic conditions on the island.
Tokyo Spanish February 1 Domei agency reports
that the reconstruction of railways on Java has becn
completed.
Changchun Chinese February 2.
An official of the Ministry of National Wolfare
states that in order to realize the use of a common
language throughout the co-prospcrity sphere pcople
should learn Japanese in addition to their native
tongue Japanese will become the lingua franca of all
Asiatic nations. At a teachers. confcrence in Manchukuo
last year delegates from Japan China and Manchukuo do
cided unanimously to consider Japanese the common
language of the countries of east Asia.
Changchun Chinese February 3.
This year the spring holiday will be reduced from
sevcn to two days thereby avoiding important losses in
production. The celebrations should be modest and we
should remember to economize and save. In times of war
we must work more and rest less.
STANDLEY
RR

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.98)
DCA
FE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
1N
FROMMOSCOW
UL
EJ
This telegram must be
closely paraphrased be-
Dated March 23, 1943
fore being communicated
to anyone. (sC)
Recta 11:44 a,m., 26th
F.W.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
193, March 23, 11 a.m. (SECTION TWO)
894.76/1
Seoul Jap February 3 a program of road building
will be started on February 15 through Korea. The
entire population must participate in this important
work.
2
Changchung Chinese February 5.
One. Manchurian peasant sure bringing quantities
of foodstuffs to the markets. The Ministry of Communi-
cations has decided to make every effort to facilitate
the transport of foodstuffs.
Two. The population of Manchukuo must become even
more conscious of the tasks before it and further in-
PC
S
crease the production of foodstuffs, steel and coal in
F
order to provide new tanks, planes and supplies for
P
Japan.
Three. The Central Committee of Manchurian Agri-
cultural Cooperatives has decided to hold a conference
at Changchun on February 8 and 9 to consider concrete
measures for the development of agriculture. The.
committee

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-#193, March 23, 11.a.m. (SECTION TWO) from Mosoow
committee has been authorized by the Ministry of
Agrioulture to show soientific films throughout the
country before spring planting begins in order to
assist the peasants to produce larger crops.
Four. The Ministry of National Welfare of
Manchukuo has called a conference to discuss a ten-
year plan for combatting the plague and to work out
concrete measures for the realization of the plan.
Changchun Chinese February 6.
One of the tasks of the Government of Manchukuo
is to enlist the active participation of the entiro
population in the development of industry and agriculture.
For many years Manchukuo has depended on North China as
a source of labor. In the future we must free ourselves
from this dependence and provide our own workers in
factories. The Government is introducing a series of
measures to improve food supplies for workers and plans
to increase their wages. This year primary attention
will be given to securing adequate labor for the mining
industry. We must combat with all our strength those
elements whioh impede the inoreased produotivity of
labor.
Two. The Government of Manchukuo has deoided to
instruot

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 #193; March 23, 11 a.m. (SECTION TWO) from Moscow
instruct the Ministry of Justice to issue special cer
tificates of domicile during March to all citizens of
Manchukuo. They will also be issued to naturalized
foreigners and to all alien residents including Chinese
with the exoeption of Japs serving in the Manchukuo
Army and employees of foreign missions.
Tokyo English February 6. It is reported from
Shanghai that at a joint conference of Chinese owners
of machine tool factories and owners of Jap plants
building machinery it was decided to concentrate all
efforts on the production of machinery and machine tools
essential for war industries. As a first step in this
direction it was decided to exchange technical experts
and to create in Ywanghai a special institute to train
qualified technicians.
Tokyo German February 7. The Jap Minister of
National Economy stated in Parliament that the oil re
sources now at the disposal of Japan in the Southwest
Pacific ensure that sufficient oil supplies will be
available for the conduct of the war and for the oper
ation of war industries at full capacity.
Two. Minister of Finance of Nationalist China de-
clared that the newly 1ssued bank notes offer real
security.

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-#193, March 23, 11 a.m. (SECTION TWO) from Moscow
security. He further stated that the financial po-
sition of Nationalist China is being consolidated with
the rapid expansion of Chinese industry.
Tokyo Italian, February 7. The Jap Government has
taken a series of measures to increase yields of cotton,
rice and tobacco in Java and Sumatra. A special expori-
mental etation for cotton cultivaticn hns been estab-
lished in Java. The Java cotton gruving society is very
active dissributing seeds and supplying the local popu-
lation wiih medorn tools. Java formcrly harvested some
135,800 k1los of tobacco annually but thanks to certain
improvemonts and the extension of areas sown the tobacco
crop this year will be increased by 103,000 kilos.
29,600 hectares are planted to rice. Next year Sumatra
will yield 433,000 tons of rice.
Changchun Chinese February 7. It has recently been
established that the number of ration cards issucd to
families of ten does not correspond with the actual
number of persons. Changes in family status are of ten often
not reported to the police. On February 10o the Changchun
police will begin to verify all cards which have been
1ssued. Persons not reporting extra cards voluntarily
and without delay will be subject to severe penalties.
Changchun

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-#193, March 23, 11 a.m. (SECTION TWO) from Moscow
Changchun Chinese February 8. Although there is
no shortage of basic commodities in Manchukuo many house
wives complain that they cannot obtain certain goods.
They do not bother to. think about cur soldiers who are
guarding the northern borders who themselves must pro-
vide for all their needs. They weave shoes from ula
grass, m ke clothes from birch bark aise pigs, goats
and chictens et cetera. The Kwantus Army Command en-
deavers to teach its soldiers to use their hands.
Tokyc Itallan February 1l. Tho Jap administration
in Java has decided to appoint loo Javanese who have
long been cooperating with the Japs to administrative
posts.
STANDLEY
WSB

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.97)
DCA
FE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
GM
Moscow
1N
This telegram must be
closely paraphrased be-
Dated March 23, 1943
UL
fore being communicated
FROM
to anyone. (SC)
Rec'd 12:20 p.m., 26th
Secretary of State,
Washington.
7.U.
193, March 23, 11 a.m. (SECTION THRE)
F.W.
Tokyo English February 11.
894.
(One) The Ministry of Greneer East Asia has
894.76/121
announced that Manchukuo has fulfilled its quota for
the deliv ry of cast iron during 1942.
(Two) ll automobile factories which were destroyed
during the enemy withdrawal from the Thiliprines have
been rebuilt. A large number of cars w uch were damaged
by the Americans have been repuired. Fuel for automotive
transport is assured from alcohol cistilled fro: abundant
supplies of bananas and sugar cane.
(Three) A representative of the War Hinistry
stated at a session of the budget corrnittee of the lo ver
that from the outbreak of the Chinese ineident
the Japanese army had received popular contributions
of£214,090,000 yen. Vice dmiral Takai stated that the
心
navy hád received 243,000,000 yen.
1943
Tokyo English February 12.
is a result of a yeer's intensive reconstruction
work Singapore has become one of the strongest Japanese
naval bases.

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-#193, March 23, 11 a.m. (SECTION TIRE) from Moscow
naval bases. Control of the seas, which formerly belonged
to the British , has passed to Japan. The port has been
cleared of sunken vessels and is engaged in peaceful
activity.
Manila Spanish February 12.
(Onc) More than 4,O00 persons have applied for
work to Emiliano Tirona, director of the newly organized
labor administration of the Phillip ines. Tirona told
journalists that as soon as the administration was fully
organized he would ondeavor to provide work for at least
part of the apylicants who include not only laborers but
also skilled workers, doctors,engineers, lawyers and
several hundred teachers who have bean out of work.
(Two) Pangasinin province has the largest cotton
production. In the settlements of Santo Tomas and
Alkla the cotton yield averages 8oo kilos per hectare
and on certain plantations it is considerably higher.
The Governor of Santiago province stated that the area
planted to cotton in that province this year will be
twice that of last year.
Tokyo Japanese February 12.
The Vice Minister of .griculture and Forestry, Isiguro,
stated in a broadcast that the forests of Japan provided
essential materials for construction of homes, the
manufacture of

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.98)
3-193. March 23, 11 a.m. (SECTION THREE) from Moscow
manufacture of various articles and at the present time
also for ship building. In the past Japan's forost
resources have been wasted. Now lumber like other raw
materials is extremely necessary for us particularly
since there is no other available source of supply and
we must manage with our own resources. We must use our
resources econonically and derive the greatest possible
advantage therefror for the condmembe that the forests
offer good protecti on acainst air raids. The Japanese
people should refrain
as far as possible fron using
lumber and practice the strictest conservation of the
fore sts.
Manila Spanish February 13.
(One) Philippine labor legislation is being studied
to determine which laws shnll remain in force and which
shall be annullad. The Labor Bureau in the ..drinistration
for Internal Affairs states thet at present the law
governing the eight hour day strikes and minimum wages
has been temporarily suspended. The basic problem now
is that of mutual relations between workers and omployers.
Any dissatisfaction of either side should be referred to
the burec.u.
(Two) During the first four weeks of the registration
period only 35o0 foreigners wore inscribed at Manila.
It is

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-#193, March 23, 11 aim. (SECTION THREE) from Moscow.
It is estimated that by May 31 more than 60,000 will
be registered. The population is meeting the requirements
willingly.
(END OF MESSAGE)
STANDLEY
EMB

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.96)
OSS
I this message was not received in the Division es
fairs until 4:30 p.m., March 27, 1943.)
2.war
Havy
cos
PARAPHRASE OF TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Agi
Jariff
American Embassy, Moscow
Secretary of State, Washington
DATE:
March 23, 1943
3-29.43
NUMBER: 193
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
The following message concerning Japanese broadcasts should be
brought to the attention of the BEw.
December 30 from Changchun in Chinese: The Ministry of National
Welfare of Manchukuo will establish a recruiting office in Shanghai
the
with & purpose of hiring technical personnel for Manchurian industries.
Japanese authorities are supporting the project.
January 25 from Manila in Spanish: Before January 31 the owmers
of all types of radio receivers must submit them to the local authorities
for alteration. To date more than 20,O00 sets have been altered but
the time remaining is short and action should not be delayed.
January 25 from Tokyo in Japanese: Today the construction of new
power stations and the restrictions of drafting for army services of
workers in electrical industry was discussed with the Vice Minister of
7.2
War by the Director of the Electric Share Company.
January 25 in Spanish from Tokyo: It was pointed out by a radio
commentator during a review of the war that the United States is now
bending every effort to increase armament production, especially of
planes, tanks and ships, and he admits quantitative superiority in
these catagories has now been gained by the United States. However,
it is added by him that the quality of armament, man power, reserves,
military

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
ay science, and correct strategy and tactics are the decisive
tors in present day war and in these fields Japan retains the
seendendy.
January 26 from Tokyo in German.
1. At Shanghai negotiations are taking place for the exchange
of goods between Inner Mongolia and central China. Tobacco, cotton
and medicines will be exported by China. Similar negotiations are also
being conducted between Shanghai and the Philippines.
2. It has been announced by the Japanese military authorities in
the Philippines that strict measures will be taken against any resident
Jew who attempts to increase prices on foodstuffs or engage in specula-
tion.
January 30 in Italian from Tokyo.
The Japanese authorities in Java have decided to devote greater
attention to cotton cultivation. Soils and climate conditions on the
a
island will be studied by/specially organized society.
From Tokyo in Spanish February 1. Domei agency reports that the
reconstruction on railways in Java has been completed.
February 2 from Changchun in Chinese. It has been stated by 
Ministry of National Welfare official that people should learn Japanese
in addition to their native tongue in order to realize the use of a
aommon: language, throughout their co-prosperity sphere. Japanese will
become a lingua franca of all Asiatic nations. At a teachers conference
in Manchukuo last year it was unanimously decided by delegates from
Japan

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
China and Manchukuo to consider Japanese the common language of
the countries of east Asia.
February 3 from Changchun in Chinese.
The spring holiday this year will be reduced from 7 to 2 days so
as to avoid important losses in production. The celebrations should be
modest and we should remember to economize and save. We must work mere
and rest less in times of war.
February 3 in Japanese from Seoul: On February 15 a program of
road building will be started through Korea. The entire population must
join in this important work.
February 5 from Changchung in Chinese.
1. Manchurian peasant sure bringing quantities of foodstuffs to
the markets. The Ministry of Communications has decided to make every
effort to facilitate foodstuffs transportation.
2. The Manchukuo population must become even more conscious of the
tasks before it and increase still further the production of coal, steel
and foodstuffs so as to provide new planes, tanks and supplies for Japan.
3. The Central Committee of Manchurian Agricultural Cooperatives
has decided to hold a conference on February 8 and 9 at Changohun to
consider concrete measures for the development of agriculture. The
Ministry of Agriculture has authorized the committee to show scientific
films throughout the country before the beginning of spring planting in
order to assist the peasants to produce larger crops.
4.

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.99)
A conference to disouss a 1o year plan for fighting the plague ai
work out concrete measures for the realization of the plan has been
called by the Ministry of National Welfare in Manchukuo.
February 6 in Chinese from Changohun. One of the Government of
Manchukuo's tanks is to enlist the active participation of the entire
population in the development of agriculture and industry. Manchukuo
has depended on North China as a source of labor for many years. We must
free ourselves of this dependence in the future and provide our own
workers in the factories. A series of measures to improve food supplies
for the workers and plans to increase workers wages are being introduced
by the Government. Primary attention will be given this year to
securing adequate labor for the mining industry. With all our strength
we must fight those elements which impede the increase productivity of
labor.
2. The Government of Manchukuo has decided to instruct the Ministry
of Justice to issue special certificates of domicile during March to all
citizens of Manchukuo. They will also be issued to naturalized foreigners
and to all alien residents including Chinese with the exception of Japs
serving in the army in Manchukuo and employees of foreign missions.
February 6 from Tokyo in English. From Shanghai it is reported that
of
it was decided that a joint conference of Chinese owners ana machine
tool factories and owners of Jap plants building machinery to concentrate
all efforts on the production of machinery and machine tools essential
for

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.97)
二5
industries. It was decided as a first step in this direction
tchange technical experts and to and to oreata special institute in
anghai for the purpose of traning qualified technicians.
February 7 from Tekye in German. A statement was made in Parliament
by the Jap Minister of National Economy that the oil resources in the
Southwest Pacific now at Japan's disposal ensure that sufficient oil
supplies will be available for the conduct of the war and for the operation
of war industries at full capacity.
2. The Minister of Finance of Nationalist China declared that real
security 1s offered by the newly issued bank notes. It was further
stated by him that the financial position of Nationalist China is being
conselidated with the rapid expansion of Chinese industry.
February 7 in Italian from Tokyo. A series of measures have been
taken by the Government of Japan to increase the yields of tobacco,
cotton and rise in Java and Sumatra. In Java there has been established
a special experimental station for cotton cultivation. The Java cotton
society is very active distributing seeds and supplying the local
population with modern tools. Bome 135,800 kilos of tobacce annually were
harvested by Java formerly but the tobacco crop this year will be increased
by l03,000 kilos due to certain improvements and the extension of areas
sown. 29,600 hectares are planted to rice. Sumatra will yield 433,000
tons of rice next year.
February 7 from Changchun in Chinese. It has recently been
established that the number of ration cards issued to families of ten
aoes

=== Page 466 === (confidence 0.99)
-6
sorrespond with the actual number of persons. Changes in family
are often not reported to the police. The Changchun police on
ary 1o will begin to verify all cards which have been issued. Persons
do not report extra carde voluntarily and without delay will be
subjeet to severe penalties.
February 8 in Chinese from Changchun. Many house wives complain
that they cannot obtain certain foods although there is no shortage of
basic commodities in Manchukuo. They do not bother to think about our
soldiers who are guarding the northern borders who themselves must provide
berk
for all their needs. They make clothes from birch, weave shoes from
ula grass and raise chickens, pigs, goats, etc. The Kwantung Army
Command tries to teach its soldiers to use their hands.
February 11 from Tokyo in Italian.   In Java the Jap administration
has decided to appoint to administrative posts loo Javanese who have long
been cooperating with the Japs.
February 1l from Tokyo in English.
1. It has been announced by the Ministry of Greater East Asia that
Manohukuo has fulfilled its quota for the delivery of cast iron during
1942.
2. The Japanese have rebuilt all the automobile factories which were
destroyed during the enemy withdrawal from the Philippines. A large
number of cars which the Americans damaged have been repaired. Fuel for
automotive transport is assured from alcohol distilled from abundant
supplies of sugar cane and bananas.
3. At a session of the budget committee of the lower house it was
stated by a War Ministry representative that popular contributions of
214,000,000

=== Page 467 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
o00 yen have been received by the Japanese army since the outbreak
Chinese incident. It is stated by Vice Admiral Takai that
000,000 yen have been received by the navy.
February 12 in English from Tokyo. Singapore has become one of the
strongest Japanese naval bases as a result of a years intensive recon-
struotion work. Control of the seas, which formerly belonged to the
British, has passed to Japan. The port has been cleared of sunken vessels
and is engaged in peaceful activity.
February 12 from Manila in Spanish.
1. More than 4,O00 persons have applied for work to Emiliano Tirona
who was the director of the newly organized labor organization of the
Phillippines. Journalists were told by Tirona that we would endeavor to
provide work for at least part of the applicants as soon as the administra-
tion was fully organized. Laborers, skilled workers, lawyers, engineers,
doctors and several hundred teachers who have been out of work are
inoluded in the applicants.
2. The province of Pangasinin has the largest production of cotton.
The cotton yield averages 8oo kilos per hectare in the settlements of
Santo Tomas and Alkla and it is considerably higher on certain plantations.
The overnor of Santiago province stated that the area in that province
planted to cotton this year will be twice the amount planted last year.
February 12 from Tokyo in Japanese.
It was stated in a broadcast by Isigure,the Vice Minister of
Agriculture and Forestry, that the forests of Japen provided essential
materials

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
ials for the manufacture of various articles, the construction of
and also for ship building at the present time. The forest resouroes
Japan have been wasted in the past. Now lugber like other raw materials
is extremely necessary for us particularly since there is no other available
source of supply and we must manage with our own resources. Our resouroes
must be used economically and we must derive the closest possible advantage
therefpom for the condmembe that the forests offer a good protection against
air raids. The Japanese people should refrain as far as possible from
using lumber and the strictest conservation of forests should be protected
by them.
February 13 in Spanish from Manila.
1. A study is being made of Philippine labor legislation to determine
which laws shall be annulled and which shall remain in force. It is stated
by the Labor Bureau in the Administration for Internal Affairs that there
has been a temporary suspension at the present of the law governing the
8 hour day strikes and minimum wages. The basic problem now is that of
mutual relations between workers and employers. The bureau should behave
it
referred to as any dissatisfaction of either side.
2. Only 3,500 foreigners were inscribed at Manila during the first
four weeks of the registration period. It is estimated that more than
60,000 will be registered by May 31. The requirements are being willingly
mot by the population.
STANDLEY
JDB.
DCA:IDB:SSW
3 - 29 - 43

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
EJ
Chungking via N. R.
This telegram must be
parephrased before being
Dated Apr1l 14, 1943
communicated to anyone
FROM
other than a Governmental
Rec'd 2:40 a.m., 15th
agency. (BR)
Secretary of State,
Diviaton of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
894.76/122
Washington.
APR 20 1943
FS
Department of State
541, Apr11 14, 1 p.m. (SECTION ONE)
FOR BEW.
DEF
Following 1s a summary of Economic material from
recent Chinese monitoring of Japanese broadcasts re
garding increased cotton in southeastern Asia:
894.76
One. Philippines: Last August Japanese an-
nounced five year plan for increasing production to
1,500,000 p1culs by 1946. Planted area will then
D'ile
aggregate 450,000 hectares including 120,000 hectares
formerly planted sugar cane remainder wastelands. In
gw
first year plan planted area reached 18,500 hectares
providing "bumper crop"; current year area will be
Deu
treblcd as result of allocation of additional land
om
for crop, 1ncluding 26,500 heotares in Luzon, 15,000
PS/SMS
Panay, 5,250 Negros and 3,000 Mindanao.
ariff
AIC
Two. Burma: Japanese selected Meiktila, Thayeymo,
Chindwin and Sagaing regions for cotton production.
Plan adopted provides for doubling average crop during
1943-1944

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-#541, Apr11 14, 1 p.m. (SECTION ONE) from Chungking
via N. R.
1943-1944 and trebling same following year. In past
five years area planted reported averaged 550,000
acres during past four years crop averaged 270,000
piculs. Estimated current crop year output will ap-
proximate 500,000 piculs and following year 750,000
piculs. Japanese expect much from highland cotton
plantings in Shan states.
Three. Sumatra: Higashiyama agricultural company
putting into effeot a five year plan south Sumatra where
company found native species cotton "excellent"; par
ticularly in Lampongs. Activities to be focussed this
area and Palembang where processing to be established.
In north Sumatra similar plan projected with plantings
started last March with native species, but improvement
predicted upon importation seeds from Taiwan and Burma.
VINCENT
NPL

=== Page 471 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
NMC
Chungking via N.R.
This telegram must be
paraphrased before being
communicated to anyone
other than a Governmental
Rcctd 2:50 a.m., 15th.
agency. (BR)
Secretary of State,
Washington.
541, Apri1 14, 1 p.m., (S CT10N T.0)
In first year of plan plantims will total
5,000 hoctares which expectec produce 45,000 piculs
unginned cotton.
Four. Java: cultivation or cotton decided
last November covering 10,O00 hoctares in Malang
and Besoeli districte. Later in accordence with
5 year plan additional areas near Cheribon will
be planted. Increased output hoped by importation
selected seeds from Japan proper Taiwan and Durma.
Planning establish research nstitute eastern
Java in order to expand cotton cul uivation there.
Fivo. Celebes: 5 year plan for south Celebes
announced vith possible aren cuitable cotton crop
120,000 hectares. Investigetlons reveal corcitions
favorable including adequate rainfall irrigation
systems and other facilitics ultimately produce
1 million piculs including long staple cotton.
In north

=== Page 472 === (confidence 0.96)
-2- #541, Apri1 14, 1 P.m., (SHCTION TWO) from
Chungking via N.R.
In north Celebos possible aroc 25,000 hectares but
irregular rainfall weak point.
Six. Lesser Sunda Islands: possible acreage
85,000 hectares.
Seven. French Indochina: Cambodia, Northern
Annam, and Tongking (?) excellont cotton producing
areas with average prewar output 48,000 piculs
incrensing to 96,000 in 1941 o ing to :overnment
encouracement.
Mi ht. Thailand: with 7,O00 hectares under
cultivation in castern and rert crn distr.cts country
also folloving policy encourage increased cultivation.
(END OF MESSAGE)
VELCEIT
BB

=== Page 473 === (confidence 0.97)
894.76
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Ionitored Japanese broadcasts. Transmits
copies of -.
894.76/123
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
#260
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)
Dated
Merch 1, 1943
From
U.S.S.R.(Kuibyshev)
To
Dickerson
File No. SEE 103.917/1639.
ega
B. S. GOVERNNENT PRINTING OFFICK 1—1540

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.91)
FE
THE FOREIGN SERVICEIVISION
OF THE
ROPLNAIS
14
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
   48
PAR  SA
U比
ATION
894.76
 RS
AMERICAN EMBASSY
DIVISION OF
EE
Moscow, U.S.S.R.
March 1, 1943
17
LYATSOR OFFYOR
1.0
53
DEPARTMANT 
AF27 19
ecor s
Subject:
Transmitting Transcripts of Japanese
FieB.
Broadcasts for period from December 23, 1942
to January 8.
1943.
Divlsion of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAY 10194
APE 291943
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIA
Depa tment of State
file
The Honorable
The Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
894.76/12
Sir:
I have the honor to forward herewith for transmission
1/
to the Board of Economic Warfare transcripts of Japanese
broadcasts monitored by the Soviet authorities during the
4
period from December 23, 1942 to January 8, 1943. A summary
of the economic information in these broadcasts was submit-
ted on February 27, 1943 through the Embassy in Kuibyshev.
Respectfully,
MAY 12 1943
For the Ambassador:
FILED
Lluuellyn E Dhompin
LlewellynE. Thompson, Jr.
Second Secretary of Embassy
FBS:rfj
P
Enclosures:
BMB
1/ Transcripts of Japanese broadcasts

=== Page 475 === (confidence 0.92)
DeA
EU
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OFDAMERICA
FE
DIVISION OF COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
(CN)
AMERICAN EMBASSY
PM 3 48
Moscow, U.S.S.R.
PHARTENT OFEE
March 17, 1943.
E
DIVISION OF
O NOISIANO
ECONOMIC STUDIES
MAY 81443
64
19 APR
NO
DEPARTNENT OF STATE
et:
Transmission ofSummaries of Japanese
Broadcasts.
1N
Recording Desk
dy
with ews
EGC
894.76
STRIOEL
IDENTIAL
APR 29 1943
894.76/125
The Honorable
The Secretary of State
di: en fe ps cilk
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
894.76/117 0.t.
I have the honor to refer to my telegram No. 126,
March 8, 1 p.m. sent at the request of the Board of Economic
nfare, and to transmit herewith the summaries of Japanese
ferred to therein.
Respectfully,
FBS:rfj
7
MAY 1 3 1943
FILED
Enclosures:
Summaries of Japanese Broadcasts
PS/BMB

=== Page 476 === (confidence 0.90)
U - LIAISON OFFICE
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
-119437
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
N
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
943 A   3
d S
S
DIANISION O
Divisidn or
ED
OF
FEASTERN AFFAIRS
AMERICAN EMBASSY
REEIE
PR 2 9 1943
Moscow, U.S.S.R.
FPARTMEN
March 27, 1943
Depa. tment of State
1B
EC
with ene
No. 75
2C
Subject:
Transmitting monitored Japanese
DIVISION BÈ COMMERCIAL
broadcasts for the period December 30,
APP 2 1943
1942 to February 15, 1943.
7
APR 27 2040
89
T CB
File taew.
394.76/126
The
Honorable
FUHELHN
Sir:
(193) 894.76/121
MLNI
With reference to my telegram of March 23, 1943,
11 a.m. submitting a summary of monitored Japanese
broadcasts for the Board of Economic Warfare, I have
the honor to transmit herewith the transcripts for
the period from December 30, 1942 to Februery 15, 1943,
which have been received by the Embassy from the appro-
priate Russian authorities.
14
Respectfully yours,
WH. Staudlley.
American Ambassader
P S/BMB
103.9
FBS/1dm
Euels-

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.90)
By all svers
tht
ew
In reply reßer to Initials
El
and No.
DR
0p-16-
NAVY DEPARTMENT
A7-1(17)/EF37
0n
tre
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS
Serial 477216
6Fe
WASHINGTON
MAY - 6 1943
894.76/130
MEMORANDUM For Liaison Officer,
MAY1 5 1948
Department of State.
SUBJECT:
Japanese Domestic Radio Propaganda Copies.
It is requested that Op-l6-W be supplied with copies
of Japanese Domestic Radio Propaganda forwarded to the Department
of State by the American Embassy in Moscow.
Mach
894.76
M.Zacharias,
Captain, U.S. Navy,
Deputy Director of Naval Intelligence.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MAY 1 11943
DIVISION OF
COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
MAY 1 5 1943
FILFT PS/MJN
SPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 478 === (confidence 0.94)
Division of
CONFIDENT IAL
RB
9.8
Copyvto PA/H
March 30, 1943
MANCHURIA
APRS
Reports of Japanese broadcasts taken from
"Daily Report - Foreign Radio Broadcasts",
March 29, 1943, 1ssued by Foreign
Broadcast Intelligence Service
894.76
Fifteen Nations Now Recognize "Manchukuo". Radio Tokyo
announced that "in addition to Japan, 15 countries, in-
cluding Germany, Italy, the rejuvenated National Government
of China, and Thailand", have officially recognized
"Manchukuo".
This number, it was reported, did not include
the Soviet Union and the Vatican,"which have extended
de facto recognition."
51
894.76
CELISSTED
E.O.. D
Hilep tha1/73
APR 5 1943
PS
FILED
/MJN
MWB
FE:Bishop:MS

=== Page 479 === (confidence 0.96)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Copies of Japanese broadcasts to the United States.
Transmits -.
894.76
33
2
v1
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
DESC. ENTRY
PS
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, ela.)
S/RA
May 11,1943
From| DESC. ENTRY
Dated
/π6
894.20200/10
File No.
132

=== Page 480 === (confidence 0.96)
481
5
RECEIVED
MENT OF STATE
S4/2
Melbourne, Australia, July 12, 1943.
CONFIDENTIAL.
6.A.
RDS
CIVISION OF COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
SUBJECT:
Objectives, Character and Effect of
1-1055
Japanese Propaganda Directed to
Fec-mm.giaves(forCl/L)
Australia.
2EU ILL
est
20ss 1cl/8
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
2wor yul 27
WASHINGTON.
I Navy
SIR:
I have the honor to report that for over a year past
Japanese and Japanese-controlled short-wave radio stations
have directed a steady stream of propaganda to Australia.
Some of this propaganda is beamed direct to Australia by
894.76/13
Radio Tokyo, but more comes from the Japanese-controlled
station at Batavia (presumably because that station, being
nearer Australia, is not as subject as is Tokyo to atmos-
GIVISION OF CONMERCIAL AFFAIRS
pherio interference), and from the Japanese-controlled
WD
tation at Singapore.Some propaganda for Australia is
also broadoast on occasions from the Japanese-controlled
stations at Saigon and Shanghai. As a general rule, the
propaganda from Batavia is better ohosen and developed
than that from Tokyo, and indioates that it is being writ-
3
ten by someone with a wide knowledge of Australia, who
follows closely and uses intelligently information gather-
ed from Australian broadoasts.(This is presumably due
to the simple fact that because of its geographical situ-
ation Batavia is able to pick up more Australian broad-
oasts than is Tokyo.) While each of the Japanese or
Japanese-controlled stations follows its own line in
broadcasting to Australia, they are all apparently direo-
ted from Tokyo, as they all aim at the same general
objectives.
PS/JT
AUG171943
Objeotives: The prinoipal objeotive of the Japanese
radio propaganda directed to Australia is to accomplish
the inolusion of Australia in the Greater East Asia Co-
Prosperity Sphere without the necessity of conquering the
country and compelling inolusipn. Toward this end the
Japanese radio propagandists jendeavor to convince the Aus-
S
tralians of their dangerous and defenceless position, to
persuade them to withdraw from the war and to oonolude a
separate peace with Japan, and to induce them to consent
to inolusion in the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere.
A sboond

=== Page 481 === (confidence 0.99)
A second objeotive appears at times to be the relief
of pressure on Germany and Italy by diversion of Allied
strength from Europe to the Pacifio. Toward this end the
Japanese propagandists extol the growing might of the
Japanese military machine, threaten Australia with invasion
and exaggerate the weakness of the Allies' military posi-
tion.(This type of propaganda has deoreased during re-
oent months, probably because Japan feels that it has
already diverted too much Allied strength to the Pacific.)
 Character of the Propaganda. In pursuance of the
above-named objeotives, Japan's propaganda to Australia is
at the same time threatening and appeasing.
It follows
certain well-defined lines, which may be summarized as fol-
lows: (a) the menace to Australia of Japan's present and
future military strength; (b) Australia's inevitable mili-
tary weakness, caused by its geographio isolation, inade-
quate manpower, and the inability or unwillingness of the
other Allies to furnish sufficient supplies; (c) the use-
lessness of further association with or dependenoe upon
Britain and the United States, both of whioh countries are
rent with social and economic troubles; (d) the growing
internal diffioulties in Australia, caused by labor troubles,
shortages of food stuffs, and the burden of Amerioan troops
1n the country; (e) the suocessful development of Japan's
Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere; and (f) the economic
and other advantages which would aocrue to Australia as a
member of the Co-Prosperity Sphere.
(a) Monace to Australia of Japan's military strength.
This propaganda consists of direct threats to Australia
and of boasts of Japan's present and growing military
might. Samples of the first type of propaganda are: "Now
the spearhead of the Imperial forces points at the heart
of Australia." "The situation is extremely grave for Aus-
tralia." "The situation for Australia is so dangerous
that the holding of oonferences in Washington and London
oan neither add nor deduct anything. The Japanese are
just around the corner......" "Tokyo says Australia's
days are numbered." "Further defense of Australia is
impossible." Examples of the second type of propaganda
are: "Before long Japan's position in the Pacific will be
impregnable." "Japan controls the sea routes between
Amerioa and Australia and can prevent help reaching Aus-
tralia." "The growing power of Japan in the Southwest
Pacific is bringing a orisis to Australia."
"T1me is
working on the side of Japan." "Japan is invinoible."
"Japan's spiritual strength is superior to that of Amerioa."
"If the Allies were to conoentrate the whole of their
forces in the Pacific, Japan would consider this as a
ohance from heaven, because she would be able to wipe out
both America and Britain once and for all." "Nippon's
reserves of soldiers, sailors and air-men are inexhaustible."
In their efforts to maintain the fiction of Japan's
"invincible navy" and "peerless war eagles", Japanese
propegandists broadcast to Australia fantastic aocounts of
naval and air battles, in which the Japanese forces are
oonsistently

=== Page 482 === (confidence 0.99)
oonsistently and overwhelmingly victorious. They grossly
exaggerate the Allied losses and as grossly minimize the
Japanese losses. (Example: Russell Islands air battle
of June 12, in which the Japanese olaimed to have shot
down 33 American airplanes with a loss of 5 Japanese planes,
as against the American olaim of 25 Japanese planes shot
down with a loss of 6 American planes.)
(b) Australia's weak military position: This propa-
ganda is usually along the obvious lines of Australia's
difficulties in defending its vast territory with a popu-
lation of only 7,000,000; of its isolated geographioal
position, with long supply lines, subject to enemy abtack,
from Britain and the United States; and of Australia's
difficulties in persuading Britain and the United States
to furnish adequate assistance in men and equipment. This
propaganda refers to the danger to Australia of the "vast
open spaces"; oalls Australia the "orphan of the Pacifio"
and asserts that help oannot reach Australia because
"Japan controls the sea routes between the United States
and Australia". It states that Australia cannot defend
itself because of lack of manpower and that its "ultimate
defeat is inevitable"; that with its commitments in North
Afrioa, the United States cannot send airplanes to Aus-
tralia even were shipping space available; that "the
Motherland can no longer protect Australia"; and that Aus-
tralia is not being supplied with equipment by the United
States ("Maybe the material is not produced, maybe it is
lost at sea, or maybe America prefers to keep it in her
own land"). Occasionally some specific shortage is men-
tioned, such as, "Australia is short of planes and is not
able to build high-powered engines" or "80 per cent of
Australian troops have contracted melaria, which cannot
be cured because Japan controls the supply of quinine."
Sometimes the American aid to Australia is twisted into a
danger instead of a help.
It is asserted that if Aus-
tralia is attacked by Japan, it is Australia's own fault,
as the Americans are permitted to use Australia as a
battleground.
The types of threatening, sabre-rattling propaganda
desoribed in (a) and (b) above have become less frequent
in Japanese broadcasts to Australia in recent months than
in the early days of the Paoific war.
This is believed
to be due to the fact that the Japanese must realize that
Australia's military position has improved immeasurably
during the past year and that in consequence there is
practically no possibility that Australia can now be
frightened into submission to Japan. The Japanese propa-
gandists are now inolined to use the wheedling, or appeas-
ing, methods in preference to the threatening methods.
The wheedling and appeasing methods are described under
the four following headings.
(c) Uselessness of further association with or
dependence upon Britain or the United States: This propa-
ganda is both political and economic in oharacter. In
rogard to Britain, it implies that Mother England is old
and tired and feeble and asserts that the British Empire
1s

=== Page 483 === (confidence 0.99)
-4 ~
is about to disintegrate; that "British imperialism is
doomed"; that "the British are not fighting for demooracy
but only for the British Empire"; that "Britain is hated
by all the world"; that the British "leave the fighting
to Russians, oolonials and other lesser breeds"; that
"the Dominions take only second or third place in the
interests or Britain"; that "Australia will not be able
to maintain an independent existence unless she draws aay
from Britain and joins the Co-Prosperity Sphere"; that
this is Britain's war, not Australia's and that Australia
should make its own plans and fight its own battles; that
"Australians must rise and free Australia as the Irish
did for Ireland"; that "Britain can never repay her debts
to Australia" and that "Australia should cut her losses
now"; nd that "Britain's distant markets, separated from
Australia by thousands of miles of enemy-infested waters,
can offer no substitute for the Asiatic markets on Aus-
tralia's doorstep"; and asks if Australia should "still
be tied to her mother's economio apron strings".
The Japanese propagandists are rather more vociferous
in their criticism and condemnation of the United States'
alleged weaknesses, faults and sinister designs and machi-
nations than they are with the British. They assert in
their broadoasts to Australia that the United States caused
the war by a desire for world domination; that by use of
its gold stooks the United States intends to establish
economic control of the world; that the United States is
endeavoring to penetrate, economically and politically,
the countries of the British Empire and such countries as
Iran, Irak and Egypt, under the guise of military neces-
sity; that Britain is threatened in the rear by American
imperialism; that the United States is waiting for Britain's
downfall, "so that she can share in the estate"; that the
United States casts covetous eyes on Canada, Australia and
New Zealand; that President Roosevelt's Four Freedoms are
"nothing but a smokescreen to hide the new Amerioan imperi-
alism"; that President Roosevelt "has thrown Jeffersonian
democracy overboard;" that American post-war plans are only
schemes for the invasion of weaker nations after the war;
that the United States is fighting this war perfunotorily;
that the United States is only fighting this war to save
its big financial interests in Asia; that at Bataan the
Americans shoved raw Filipino recruits into the front line
while themselves remaining in safety; that United States
troops are only doing pleasant garrison duty in North
Africa and Australia while the British, Australians and
New Zealanders do the fighting; that the Amerioans wanted
to send arms and not men to the belligerent countries, as
they wanted "to get the spoils of a belligerent and enjoy
the privileges of a neutral"; that the United States will
abandon Australia as it has already abandoned the Philip-
pines, Malaya and Java; that American aid to Australia is
inadequate and will entail Australia's subservience to the
United States after the war; that America's interest in
Australia is only strategio; that American munitions pro-
duotion figures should not be believed; that the United
States has neither the means nor the inolination to aot in
the Pacifio; that the United States brought pressure upon
Australia to have General MacArthur acoepted as Commander-
in-Chief

=== Page 484 === (confidence 0.99)
-5
in-Chief; that "the presence of General MacArthur and the
American foroes in Australia bodes no good for that coun-
try"; that "politicians and radio commentators are running
the war in the United States" and that Australia is there-
fore in a bad position, to whioh it should awaken; that
Australians are too wise to be fooled by the Americans,
who have "wild and sinister designs" on the whole world;
that if the United States does suoceed in saving Australia,
that country will become the 49th State of the United
States; and that that condition would be most unsatisfac-
tory for Australia, as the United States is too far from
Australia and because the United States and Australia pro-
duce competitive and not complementary goods.
In recent weeks the Japanese propagandists have
introduced a new line, designed to undermine Australian
faith in the social and economic stability and in the
idealism of the United States. They assert that the
American social system is breaking down; that the American
people have yet to find a leader who can give them some
idea of where they are heading; that the United States is
"suffering from the dead hand of the Roosevelt epoch with
its cruelty"; that America has not yet learned its duty
toward its neighbors; that the United States is still
imbued with racial prejudice; that in the United States
the war between oapital and labor is the greatest prob-
lem, overshadowing military problems; and that America
cannot expect to bring order to the world, when it cannot
keep order in its own country.
In addition to the individual attacks on Britain
and the United States, Japanese propagandists in their
broadcasts to Australia sometimes endeavor to discredit
both countries together, by denouncing what they term
"Anglo-American" policies and activities.
Thus they
assert that big business in Britain and the United States
caused the war and that big business is profiteering
while the young men are dying; that Anglo-American post-
war plans are nothing but a smoke-screen to cover their
disappointment over the progress of the war; that the
Anglo-Amerioans are exploiting the weaker peoples of the
world, giving them consoling promises like the Atlantic
Charter; that the Atlantic Charter really means control
and exploitation of the whole world by the Anglo-Amerioans;
that the Anglo-Americans are spending so much time on
post-war plans that they are losing battles; that the
United States is using Lend-Lease to dominate the future
world, while Britain, unable to compete with Lend-Lease,
is working for dominance through control of the govern-
ments of small nations; that Anglo-American reconstruction
plans are impossible of achievement because they presup-
pose victory; that the Anglo-Americans are "letting the
Chinese down"; that the Russians are bitter at the Anglo-
Americans because of their bad faith in not opening a
second front in Europe in 1942; that plutoorats are still
in power in Britain and the United States and that under
such conditions it is not surprising that Soviet Russia
is unwilling to become a close ally of Britain and the
United States; that Britain and the United States profess
to be democraoies but have associated themselves with a
Communist

=== Page 485 === (confidence 1.00)
Communist state; that democracy as practiced by Britain
and the United States means the right of the rich to
exploit the poor and of the few to exploit the many; that
there is a revolt in Britain and the United States against
the untruthful statements put out by leaders regarding
military operations; that the Anglo-Americans are not
brave enough to fight the armed forces of Japan; that only
a few English have done any fighting and that the "Amer-
icans are worse"; and that the Anglo-Americans put others
in the front line to do their fighting for them.
(a) Growing internal difficulties in Australia: The
purpose of this type of propaganda is obviously to create
dissatisfaction and dissension within Australia and there-
by to weaken the war effort and to sow the seeds of a
negotiated peace. Toward these ends the Japanese propa-
gandists exaggerate the unavoidable war-time discomforts
in Australia.
They point to the shortage of man-power
for civilian production, the shortage of certain foods,
the rising cost of living, the discomforts of "austerity"
life, etc. They assert that "Australia is suffering from
a shortage of food, clothing, fuel, everything. The Aus-
tralians are a freedom-loving people; they want long week-
ends, to go fishing, to bet on the races. Now they must
buy bonds and more bonds. There is an acute shortage of
man-power and they have to perform compulsory labor service.
They are being strictly regimented.
They are getting
tired of the war.
Australia should never have gone to
war. It was forced into the war by the British". They
state that Australia is rent with internal dissension,
that there is unrest in Australian political parties and
that the morale of the people is low, largely as a reper-
cussion of Japanese activities in the Southwest Pacific.
They exaggerate the prevalence of strikes and other labor
troubles in Australia and endeavor to create further dis-
satisfaction among the laboring classes by asserting (quite
falsely, as it happens) that the rich are getting richer
and the poor poorer as a result of the war. "It is always
the common people who have to pay for wars........If they
are not defeated, the common people still have to pay the
price........Manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers are
getting a bigger turn-over and making bigger profits. But
no effort is being made to reduce prices." They further
assert that Australia is economically and financially un-
sound and that the response to the war loans has been un-
satisfactory (which is partly true). They state that the
Labor Government of Australia is serving the interests of
the "incompetent capitalists of London and Washington", as
a result of which the Australians have to starve themselves
in order to feed the people of Britain and the United States.
They olaim that the real enemies of Australia are not the
Axis powers and Japan, but the Jewish refugees in Australia
"who are eating the food of your women and children", as
well as war profiteers and blaok marketeers.
They point
to the disadvantages to Australia of having to feed a large
number of American troops. They state that the defenses
of Australia have been taken over by Americans and Aus-
tralian military leaders have been relegated to the back-
ground; that American troops have demanded and received
extraterritorial

=== Page 486 === (confidence 0.99)
- 7 
extraterritorial rights, whereby Australia "has sacri-
ficed the right to make her own laws"; and that "the
presence of Americans in Australia constitutes more of
a danger than an advantage".
(e) Success of the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity
Sphere: The propaganda of this type broadcast to Aus-
tralia is undoubtedly similar to propaganda broadcast to
the United States and oonsequently need not be described
here in detail. It purports to show that everything is
lovely in the Garden of Eden; that the natives of the oo-
cupied territories are gladly cooperating with the Japa-
nese; that reconstruction is proceeding rapidly; that the
various countries concerned are rapidly attaining self-
sufficiency in regard to food and textiles; that indepen-
dence (under the aegis of Japan) is to be granted as soon
as possible to eaoh individual country; that the Japanese,
unlike the British, Americans and Dutch, are not exploit-
ing the occupied lands for their own profit but for the
benefit of the natives; that the people of East Asia now
have freedom from want and security of living, which they
did not have formerly; that the Allied Utopia is only a
plan, with no ohance of accomplishment in a realistic,
post-war world, while the Co-Prosperity Sphere is a "work-
ing reality"; that the Co-Prosperity Sphere is a real con-
tribution to the lasting peace of the world; etc. In
broadcasts to Australia this type of propaganda is often
associated with more or less emotional appeals to the Aus-
tralians to recognize the sincerity of Japan's motives in
forming the Co-Prosperity Sphere and for Australia to take
its proper place in the Sphere."The world knows too well
our sinoere desire for real equality between nations - an
oquality before the law, acknowledging, however, the natu-
ral differences between dwarfs and giants, between children
and grown-ups". It states that the objeotive of Japan is
"to ensure a place in the sun for every human being in the
world, for every nation" and "to create a brotherhood of
all human beings". It invites Australians to "give up
their selfish White Australia policy and to share their
abundant resources to a reasonable degree and in a reason-
able way with needy nations in other parts of the world,
notably in nearby Asia". It urges Australia to "abandon
racial discrimination" and to understand Asia; and to co-
operate with Japan "to bring about an abiding peace". It
asserts that "the natural resources of the countries of
East Asia are being used for their own emancipation" and
states that in the Co-Prosperity Sphere, which Australia
is invited to join, "sovereignty must be disoredited in
favor of general economic prosperity". It claims that
the fight is between two causes, which however are funda-
mentally the same, as both aim at equality and a fair deal
for all. "But the conoepts of the new order are vastly
different.The Axis is fighting because there is no
freedom and equality in the status quo, whereas the Allies
regard the status quo as the best safeguard for seourity
and happiness for all".
(f) Boonomio

=== Page 487 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8-
(f) Eoonomic and other advantages which would accrue
to Australla as a member of the Co-Prosperity Sphere. This
type of propaganda appears at first glance to be the most
logioal of all, but on examination it is found that the
logic is based on a false premise. It asserts that Aus-
tralia's principal products (wool, wheat and meat) have
to compete with the products of other nations within the
British Commonwealth of Nations, but that Australia's
economy would not be competitive with but complementary
to those of the nations of the Co-Prosperity Sphere. This
argument ignores the fact that Australia's economy is not
competitive with but complementary to that of the United
Kingdom, and that Australia would have little or nothing
to gain by linking its economy with that of Japan instead
of that of Britain.
The prinoipal themes in this propaganda are that Aus-
tralia is too far from Britain and the United States and
that therefore it falls naturally within the Greater East
Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere; that the future of Australia
is tied up with the Far East, with which Australia's trade
would be complementary and not competitive; that Australia
cannot expect much in trading with Britain and the United
States after the war, while Japan offers all the advan-
tages; that Australia will not be able to dispose of its
exportable surpluses in Britain and the United States
after the war, while Japan is today building up the great-
est potential market in the world, which will be open to
Australian products if Australia will only join the Co-
Prosperity Sphere; and that Australians are giving their
lives to prevent Japan from providing that market for Aus-
tralia, which is a "tragio irony".This theme is reiter-
ated constantly in passages such as the following: "No
one, except an ostrioh, can be blind to the fact that Aus-
tralia and New Zealand have to compete with the other
members of the British Commonwealth of Nations in all es-
sential products. The world is amazed at the tenacity of
the British colonial system of exploitation, and wonders
if the time has not really arrived when Australia should
be seriously considering, even during these abnormal times,
which side her bread is buttered, whether she should still
be tied to her mother's economic apron strings of imperial
preference, when the motherland oan no longer protect her
or offer her any return".
Another inducement offered to Australia to join the
Co-Prosperity Sphere is the allegedly superior economic
system offered by Japan. In the first place, "the future
economic situation of the world must consist of mutually
interdependent groups of nations". Among the groups,
"all accounts can be settled by booking, without the need
for gold or silver, by adjusting demand and supply among
countries. Such a thing is possible only by the creation
of regional spheres under a leader nation, who will con-
trol everything. Otherwise there would be a number of
nations competing with each other". (Japan apparently is
to be the leader nation for East Asia, Australia and New
Zealand). "Japan wishes to break the power of money -
money based on gold. Therefore Japan has encouraged self-
reliance and self-sufficiency in Asiatic peoples, who now
have

=== Page 488 === (confidence 0.99)
- 9 -
have freedom from hunger and security of living. They
will not now go back to Anglo-American-Dutch domination."
Japan also offers as an inducement to Australia the
alleged fact that Japan has made enormous progress in
scientific researoh, and that Australia can share in these
discoveries if it will join the Co-Prosperity Sphere.
While the above lines of propaganda contain features
which might appeal to some Australians as fairly reasonable,
the Japanese propagandists use another line which only
succeeds in turning every Australian against any idea of
inclusion in the Co-Prosperity Sphere. This line tells
the Australians of the blessings which will come to Aus-
tralia when, as a member of the Co-Prosperity Sphere,
Asiatic immigrants will settle in Australia in great
numbers. (A Tokyo commentator estimated that Australia
could carry from 100 to 200 million Asiatics; a Singapore
commentator estimated that Asiatics would swell Australia's
population to 30,000,000 within ten years.) "Australia
is underdeveloped. She should have allowed the Asiatics
to enter the country. In the future, as a member of the
Co-Prosperity Sphere, under Japan's benign guidance, Aus-
tralia will blossom like the rose, thanks to the industry
of the Asiatic settlers". Again, Singapore, in describ-
ing the effeot of Asiatic immigration into Australia,
stated: "A new economio life will develop. Cotton will
be oultivated on a large scale, where not a single bale
was grown before. In the Northern Territory, Queensland,
Western Australia and South Australia, ootton plants will
wave in the breeze over vast expanses of country.
The
soil is so fertile that there will be no need for irriga-
tion (!). The climate is suitable for the production of
ootton of exoellent quality. Townsville, Brisbane, Broome,
Perth and Adelaide will be the main centers for the dis-
tribution and marketing of raw cotton, while the spinning
industry will thrive in Melbourne and Sydney.........The
capitalists and leaders of the industry will be seleoted
from among the Japanese and the workers from among the
Indians, Chinese and Indonesians". Radio Singapore did
not indicate the part which the Australians would play in
this imaginary ootton Utopia.
With this propagania are issued appeals to Australia
to join the Co-Prosperity Sphere, sometimes with an "or
else -" threat attached. Australia is assured that
"Japan's only desire is to see in the South Sea an Australia
free, peaceful, prosperous and contented". "Australia
has a place in the CoProsperity Sphere if she cares to
avail herself of the opportunity." But, "to hesitate is
dangerous. He who hesitates is lost." "After this war
there will be a new Australia. Her wealth will be put to
great use, and her vast country will be cultivated by
people from Asia". "Whether the people of Australia
would or would not enjoy happiness and well-being depended
on whether their Government understood the intentions of
Nippon and adopted a fair and just attitude."
Effect of Japanese Propeganda: The effeot of the
vast bulk of the Japanese prepaganda directed to Australia
1s

=== Page 489 === (confidence 0.99)
- 10 -
is practically nil. Most of the Japanese propaganda is
so ridioulously untrue or illogical that very few Aus-
tralians care to listen to it. A few persons whom I have
questioned on the subject say that they "tune in on Japan
occasionally to get a laugh". I have heard of two or
three Australians who listen in regularly, but it seems
that they do so in order to be able to say in the tram
the following morning: "Did you hear what the Japanese
said over the radio last night? They claim that they
shot down 21 planes over Darwin". I do not think that
these persons have any ulterior motive in thus spreading
Japanese propaganda - they simply like to acquire and
disseminate information, correct or incorrect, which others
do not have. Mr. Blaokburn, an Independent Labor M.P.
for Victoria, stated some months ago that Australia would
not be in danger from the Japanese were it not for the
presence of American troops in this country (a theme some-
times used by the Japanese) but it is not known whether
he obtained this opinion from Japanese propaganda or
whether he evolved it from his own consciousness. Laborers,
partioularly in New South Wales, are reported to say at
times, when urged to greater efforts because of the neces-
sities of the war situation, "Aw! We wouldn't be any
worse off under the Japanese!" I do not believe, however,
that this attitude is the result of Japanese propaganda.
It is simply the normal attitude of a certain section of
recalcitrant, intransigent labor, whioh is always "agin
the gov'ment". In general, therefore, it would appear
that most of the psyohological warfare directed by the
Japanese against Australia represents only a considerable
waste of effort and money. In fact, it has had so little
effect upon the vast mass of the Australians that the Aus-
tralian Government has not seen fit to endeavor to combat
it within Australia, although counter propaganda is broad-
cast to the occupied territory to the north.
In one respect, however, the Japanese propaganda has
achieved a measure of success. This is in connection with
the Japanese olaims of Allied losses on the sea and in the
air. As is undoubtedly well known in the United States,
the Japanese claims in regard to any particular battle are
usually approximately the reverse of the Allied figures.
The censorship in Australia permits the Japanese olaims to
be published in the press, and consequently they achieve
wide ciroulation here. While, as far as I can diecover,
no Australian swallows the Japanese olaims in toto, the
claims do have the effeot of oreating a measure of doubt
in the minds of the Australians regarding the complete ao-
ouracy of the Allied claims. I have questioned several
Australians on this point and almost invariably the reply
has been that the person questioned believes that the
"truth lies somewhere in between the two olaims".
This
particular type of propaganda is partioularly difficult to
combat, and it would appear that the only antidote thereto
would be irrefutable evidence, in the form of photographs
or the testimony of an impartial observer, of the accuraoy
of the Allied olaims.
Respeotfully yours,
Erle R. Dickover
American Consul General
820.02

=== Page 490 === (confidence 0.98)
-11 -
820.02
ERD/jwp
Original and hectograph to Department.
Copy to Legation, Canberra.
Copy to Consulate General, Sydney.
