894.20222 Military Affairs. Army. Army Posts. Fortifications. Defenses. Military Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., Military Activities Of Japan In Ecuador Including Gathering Of Information. Espionage. Propaganda., March 2 (File 1144)
ID: 894.20222-1144   Pages: 106   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.20222-military-affairs-army-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
March 22 1982.
STRIOTLY CONFIDENTIAL.
No.139
F/HS
The Honorable
William Dawson,
American Minister,
894.20222/A
Quito.
Sir:
There is enclosed herewith for your information a
copy of a strictly confidential despatch under date of
894.20223
February 6, 1932, from the Ambassador at Lima, relating
to the activities of certain Japanese in Peru.
The Director of Naval Intelligence of the Navy
Department has expressed interest in this question, and,
at his request, you are instructed to transmit to the
Department such information regarding activities of
Japanese subjects in Ecuador as may come to the atten-
tion of the Legation.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
FRANCIS WHITH
Enclosure:
A true eopy of
From Embassy, Lima,
the signed grig-
MAR18.19
February 6, 1932.
CR
T

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.96)
LEGATION OF THE
569
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Quito, May 4, 1932.
DIVISION OF
STRIOTLY CONFIDENTIAL.
LATIN AMERICAN AFFAIRS
MAY1/1932
Subject: Activities of Japanese.
DEPART
MENOISIATE
49 1982.
F/H
ATE
DISRIEU
Y. N.
S
894.20222/1
L
The Honorable
Division of
FAR EASTERH AFFAIRS
The Secretary of State,
MAY 20 1932
Washington, D. C.
Department of State
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Depart-
1420
ment's strictly confidential instruotion No. 139
of Maroh 32, 1932 (no file number), with respect
to the interest of the Director of Naval Intel-
ligence in activities of Japanese subjeots in
Ecuador.
It does not appear that Japanese subjects
have engaged in Ecuador in any activities such
as are referred to by the Amerioan Ambassador
j
894.20223/,0
in Lima in his despatoh No. 1508 of February
dential File
FIOMD
6, 1932. In faot, the Legation has been able
to learn of the presence in Eouador of only
one

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
one Japanese subjeot, a cook who resides in
Santa Elena where he operates a small restaurant
when he is not employed by one of the oil com-
panies. It may be noted that Japan is repre-
sented in Ecuador by an honorary consular of-
ficer, Dr. Pedro V. Miller Gutierrez, former
Ecuadoran Minister of Publio Works.
The foregoing statement is based on infor-
mation obtained through discreet inquiries in
which the Legation has had the assistance of
the Consulate General at Guayaquil.
Respectfully yours,
William Dawson.
In quintuplicate to Department.
855.
102.5
Carbon Copi
WD/ohb
dadnoned
5-76-32

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.96)
May 19 1982.
In reply refer to
894.20222/1
LA 894.20322/1
The Honorable
The Seoretary of the Navy.
Sir:
There is transmitted herewith for the consideration
of the Office of Naval Intelligence a opy of a striotly
confidential despatoh dated May 4th, last, from the
Amerioan Legation at Quito, on the subject of the
activities of Japanese subjects in Ecuador, containing
information requested by the Director of Naval Intel-
CONFIDENTIAL
ligence.
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Francis White
Confdentiel File
Assistant Seoretary.
Enclosure:
From Legation Quito
No. 569, May 4, 1932.
A true cepy of
the wened orig
CR
14th
LA:SR

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.94)
RECD
—
LEGATION OF THE
No. 586
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Quito, May 17, 1932.
3
STRIOTLY CONFIDENTIAL
Yau
Subject: Aotivities of Japanese.
MAY 1 32
X()
0n2
F/HS
. 1. D. o
FILE
3437
ny LA
ADISTRIBUTION - CHECK
Y
894.20222/
ONI.
MID
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State
D vision of
Washington, D. C.
FAR EASTER ARAIRS
2
LY O
J-1932
Sir:
Department of State
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
strictly confidential instruction No. 130 of March
22, 1932 (no file mumber), and the Legation's des-
patch No. 569 of May 4, concerning the interest of
the Director of Naval Intelligence in activities
of Japanese subjects in Ecuador.
Under date of May 12, Vice Consul Gannett
has advised the Legation that on May 8 the follow-
ing Japanese subjects arrived at Guayaquil from
Trujillo, Peru, and entered Ecuador as agricul-
tural immigrants:
Confidential File
Tokuso Aguena, 29 years of age, farmer,
born at Okinawa Ken, Japan; passport
1ssued by Minister of Foreign Rela-
tions of Japan.
Masaharu

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
Masaharu Awakon, 28 years of age, farmer,
born in Okinawa Ken, Japan; passport
issued by Minister of Foreign Rela-
tions of Japan.
Chosho Teugazan, 30 years of age, farmer,
born in Okinawa Ken, Japan; passport
issued by the Japanese Legation at
Lima.
Vice Consul Gannett has been requested to
furnish the Legation any further information
which may become available from time to time
concerning the arrival of Japanese subjects in
Ecuador and their activities.
Respeotfully yours,
W
William Dawson.
In quintuplicate to Department.
855.
WD/ohb
5731 En4
2 cam &msout
n.R
June 4

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.96)
LEGATION OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 1175
¿uito, October 20, 1933.
DIVISIA
LATIN AMERISAFAIRS
F/EPG
NOV-
Guayaquil concerning Japane
Vessels in Vicinity of Galápagos
Islands.
FAR EASTN AS
1933
894.20222/3
beowtment  Sate
994
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose, as of possible in-
terest to the Department, a copy of a letter dated
October 17, 1933, from Consul General uarton repor-
ting the receipt of information to the effect that
NOV
two Japanese vessels have recently been cruising in
FILED
the vicinity of the Galápagos Islands, that it was
1933
noted that they were charting the surrounding waters,
and that they were ordered to leave by the local
authorities.
This information yas received by r. uarton
from Dr. Herman B. Parker, an American physician
residing in Guayaquil.
Respectfully

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
Respectfully yours,
Wcuian az
William Dawson
Enclosure:
Copy of letter from Consul General,
Guayaquil, 0ctober 17, 1933.
85.91
ED/hr

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
to Despatch No. 1175 of October 20, 1933, American
gation at Quito, Ecuador
AMERICAN CONSULAR SERVICE
Guayaquil, cuador, 0ctober 17, 1933.
Dear "r. Dawson:
ur. Parker's new receiving and sending set is now in
operation and he has recently intercepted several messages
which appear of interest. 'ost of these were local and
later appeared in the press, but one concerning two
Japenese ships reconnoitering in the vicinity of the
Calápagos Islands has not been published.
The message, according to Dr. Parker, was as follows:
"The Japanese ships were cruising in
the vicinity of the Galápagos Islands during
a period of two weeks allegedly for the pur-
pose of fishing but it was noted that they were
charting the surrounding waters. They were
ordered to leave by the Governor."
I have encouraged Dr. Parker to give me any copies
of such messages as he considers important but have not
wanted to become too intimate with hi on this subject
as he wants me to arrange that he be appointed as official
reporter for the sec et service authorities in the Canal
Zone. I think Dr. rarker is somewhat excitable and may
submit reports of a biased nature and consequently I
have done nothing in this regard.
Respectfully yours,
Harold B. uarton
The Honorable
William Dawson,
American Minister,
juito.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.93)
a1 and four copies of this despatch sent to the
frtment by air mail pouch on October 24.
No. 1175
cu1to, Cotober 20, 1933.
Subjeot: Report from Consul General at
Guayaquil conoerning Japanose
Vessels in Vicinity of alapagos
Ialands.
TE
N0V 133
3
RS
e
C
X
894.2
The Honorable
he ec etary of tate,
022
asninston
:ir:
F
i have the honor to enolcse, ar of posaible 1n-
3
terest to the epartment, a cony cf a letter dated
cotober 17, 1933, from Jonsul General uarton repor-
ting the receint of inforration to the frect that
two Japanese vessels ave recently been e uistng in
the vioinity of the alaaron slends, thet it was
note: that they were chartin: the surroundin waters,
and that they were crdrred to eeve by the l cel
authorities.
hin information was received by r. uarton
NOV.80.1938
from br. Herman . arler, an merican physlcian
residing in uayaquil.
espeotrully

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.89)
-2-
espectfully yours,
11lian
erson
inclosure:
Copy of letter fro" Jonsul  eneral.
uayaqull, ctober 17, 1.
85.91
/nr

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.96)
Dempatch No. 1175 of Cetober 20, 1933, Amerieem
siem at Quito, Eoumdor
AMERICAN CON GU:AR SERVICE
Guayaquil, Eouador, Cctober 17, 1933.
Dear Yr. ewson:
Dr. arker's new receiving and sending set is now in
operesion and he has recently intercepted several messages
whish appear of interest. "oat of these were local and
later appeared in the press, but one conoerning two
Japamese ships reconnoitering in the vioinity of the
Galapagos Islands has not been published.
The message, aocording to r. erker, was as follows:
"The Japanese ships were oruising in
the vicinity of the alapagos Islande during
a period of two weeks allegedly for the pur-
pose or fishing but it was note: that they ere
charting the surrounding waters. :hey were
ordered to leave by the fovernor."
I have enoouraged r. arker to ive e any coples
of such messages as he oonsiders 1 portant but have not
wanted to beoome too intimate with h1 on this subjeot
as he wants me to arrange that he be appointed as ofricisl
reporter for the sec et service authorities in the anal
one. I think Lr. arker is sonewhet excitable and ay
submit reports of a 'iased nature and consequently I
have done nothing in thin regard.
es ectfully yours,
lar d. uarton
he onorable
11:iam Dewson,
merioan intster,
u1to.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20222
032 S2/17
SEE
FOR
eLo.
FROM
State Department
(.Carr
) DATED NOV. 12, 19.4
A-C
XTO
NAME
1-1127
OPO
4
REGARDING:
Lessage Prom Phillips ord to t e President
regardins visit o punese fishing
boats to sabela.
med

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 30, 1935.
The information in the attached file to
the effect that Japanese have interested them-
selves aotively toward preventing the granting
of a concession to non-Japanese for fishing
rights in the Galapagos Islands, a point some
750 miles from the Panama Canal, is of definite
interest to FE. This particular information
may or may not be true. However, when con-
sidered in connection with other reports and
ovidence of Japanese subversive and espionage
activities and in relation to the incident of a
prominent Japanese at Singapore committing
suicide when apprehended by the British
authorities in Japanese espionage activities
there, it emphasizes that Japan and Japanese
nationals are definitely and systematically
organized for the purpose of espionage
activities andopposing the advancement of
interests which might run counter to Japan's
efforts to improve its strategic position
(present or potential).
MMH/REK

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 30, 1935.
The information in the attached file to
the effect that Japanese have interested them-
selves actively toward preventing the granting
of a concession to non-Japanese for fishing
rights in the Galapagos Islands, a point some
750 miles from the Panama Canal, is of definite
interest to FE. This particular information
may or may not be true. However, when con-
sidered in connection with other reports and
evidence of Japanese subversive and espionage
activities and in relation to the incident of a
prominent Japanese at Singapore committing
suicide when apprehended by the British
authorities in Japanese espionage activities
there, it emphasizes that Japan and Japanese
nationals are definitely and systematically
organized for the purpose of espionage
activities and opposing the advancement of
interests which might run counter to Japan's
efforts to improve its strategic position
(present or potential).
MMH/REK

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.95)
THE UNDER SECRETATY
1930
OF
STATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ÉCEIVED
DLPAFIMIYI OFSIATE
7e
wl
#
FEB121935
DIVISION OF LATIN-AMERICAN AFFAIRS
DIVISION OF
MEMORANDUM
STATE
入
Division of
February 8, 1935
Conversation
APR 1-1935
FAR EASTERN AFFANS
MAR 21 1935
MR
WEI
Desartsment of State
894.20222
Commander Holmes, Office of Naval Intelligence;
894.20222/5
Mr. McGurk.
Commander Holmes came in and left with me the
attached copies of correspondence. He stated that he
had been instructed to bring them over by the Director
of Naval Intelligence with no request for any action
as they were solely for our information.
The correspondence concerns a Countess Hamon, a
British subject, and her husband, also British, who
had a tentative concession for the fishing rights in
the Galapagos Islands. In October last she, in company
with her husband en route to Ecuador to confirm the
concession with the Ecuadoran Government, stopped off
at Panama and there was warned by a Japanese to keep
hands off the Galapagos Islands and to keep her mouth
Sogaquil
APR·15 1935
FILED
shut. She, however, proceeded to or, and upon
arrival there received an anonymous telephone call at
her hotel reminding her of the warning she had received
in Panama. She did not thereafter go to Quito to follow
up the concession, but returned home.
The
G

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.97)
-2~
The story seems a bit fantastic, but it has a
practical point since she is desirous of obtaining
financial backing to establish the concession from the
Secretary of the Navy, her own financial backing having
been withdrawn.
I thanked Commander Holmes for his courtesy in
bringing the matter to our attention.
J. F. McGurk
LA:JFMCG/LO

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.98)
H
Telophone: Gladstone 9434
7417 Hollywood Boulevard
Cable Address: Nomahcount
Hollywood, California.
Confidential
January 15th, 1935.
Private and Confidential
The Honorable Claude Swanson,
Secretary of the Navy
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sir,
I wish to brin: the following facts to your notice and to
ask if you will favor me with an interview in the event that I
should go to Washington and put before you certain information,which
I think is of importance, as it concerns the Japanese Fishing Activities
some 750 miles from the Panama Canal.
I have just returned to California from Ecu- ior, where I went to
conclude the final agreenents on a Concession for the Fishing Rights
at the Gelapagos Islands which the Government of Ecuador has agreed
to grant me for 15 years with option for a further 15 years subject
to certain conditions. I hold a Memorandum of this proposed Concession.
I left San Pedro, Los Anpeles, vith ay husband on the "Oregon" for
Cristobal, C. Z. on October 22nd 1934 and arrived at the Hote1 Washin ton
Cristobal at 1l p.m. Thursday on Noveaber 1st. From Friday to the
following Tuesday vas a netionel noliday in Panamc.
On Sunday November 4th I vas sitting on the Sen-Wall in the Hotel
Grounds at about 4 p.m. when a Japanese came up to me and asked if
ny name was Countess Hamon? I of course replied "Yes" He yuickly
entered into conversation and said several things of grert importance
which I think it would be vell for you to know. He warned me not to
continue my negocictions with the Presilent of Ecutdor Senor Doctor
Velasco Ibarre, nor with the Minister of War & Aviation. He told me
to "keep my hands off the Galaparos Islanis" ;ni ordered me "to keep
my mouth shut" about this meeting and warnint either in Cristobrl, the
Canal Zone or in Tcua lor - he forpot to montion the U.S.A. or Tophinston
in his threstening demands.
On Wednesey Yoy 7th ve went on bour? the "Boskoop" sailing for
Guayaquil cusdor. On the voyee I did plenty of thinkin and lthoush
accompanied by my husband I never mentionei to him about being threatened
at Cristobal as he is not in e good stite of health.
When I errived in Guaya uil ny mind vas made un - I decided that
I would not comnit yself and used the ples of illness as the excuse
for not keeping my appointments with the President and certain Ministers
in Quito (the Capitai) but us the Press had announced thet I was poing

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.98)
Quito, on my arrival at our Hotel I received an annoymous telephone
message reminding me of the warning I had received in Cristobal.
On Dec 12th we went on board the "Pacific Grove" where apain a
Japanese who has been following me came and spoke to me. Next morning
we sailed and arrived in Los Angeles on December ?4th.
We came to California from Lonion in Aurust 19r9. my husband becomes
an American citizen this year, Passport No 79189, my Pansport No. A10549.
I have many friends in Ecuador, that is why I became interested in
the Country and the Fishing situation which is dangerously in too
many Japanese hends. These people prelominate in the West Coast
Canneries here and many boats are ovned by Japanese of course subsidized
under cover by their Government.
It is a very delicate situation but one which I feel sure is worthy
of your consideration on account of its strategic importance which the
Japanese have demonstrated to me r ther forcenbilly and most unpleasantly
by the threats I have rec ived.
If I can have an interview with you, I relieve I heve something to put
before you that mey be of great value to the U.S.A. Government, but I am
sure you will understand that it would be inpossible for me to communicate
this information in any other way than by a private interview.
Awaitinp the favor of an early reply so tnat I can meke my arrange-
ments to go to Washington.
Believe me
Very sincerely yours,
Mena Hamon.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.97)
Commandants Office
Eleventh Naval District
San Diego, Calif.
?4 January 19:5.
Dear Captain:
Yours of 21 January vas received at 1400 yesterday.
Herewith preliminary report:
"Parties live at address stated,  hich is in a very secluded
neighborhood - only one nerr neighbor. House sits way beck in clump
of trees. vuiet people, heving no o rties of any kind. They travel
in motion pieture and author society. lusband is an author an: lec-
turer on occult sciences. He vas born in Ireland end hes truveled
considerably. Went into business once in London and w nt bankrunt.
Lived there at 21 Park Sguare, Portlend Plece, N.Y. (I remember this
as a very good neighborhood). Cume to America 1929 end vi ited first
at 401 5th St., Santa Monica. Have been t present ddress, hich
they rent, for about two ye: rs. Telephone Gladstone 9434. Berr vory
good reputations and do not mix with anyone."
I am flying to Hollywood tomorrow morning, and if
possible, will personally contact . i. and find out what she knors -
if nything. On my return in afternoon will sutmit urther report.
Sincecely,
Grayson.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.98)
Commandant's Office
FLEVENTH NAVAL DISTRICT
San biego, Calif.
25 January, 1935.
6 p.m.
CONFIDENTIAL
Dear Captain:
I flev to Hollywood this morning and hove just returned,
so brought this report home to write up, in order that you might have it on
Monday.
At 1l: 30 this morning, I had a tvo hour interview  ith
Count and Countess Hamon at their home 7417 Hollyvood Boulev rd. He is bout
55 years old, British in appearance, manners and speech. Has been a life
long member, or Fellow, of the Royl Geogranhical Society and is a member of
the Royal Thames Yacht Club, London. Still m intains  residence in London
as evidenced by his card, and is & Mason of high derree. The countess is
about 50, short, fat, and with & mess of peroxide hair. Has an American
background, but typically Irish in appearance. He is an author and lecturer
in occult sciences and she a chemist vith a big laboratory located in her
home - which I saw. Therein is the berinning of the present husiness, for
she claims that she hes invented a process for preserving fruits, vegetables
and fish, not by freezing, smoking, or the use of selt, but by a special
process of de-hydrating vhich is perticularly tpplicable to fish. With the
idea of commercielizing her process, she has been in correspondence with
certain Ecuadorean officials for some time, notebly Dr. Ayora, Attorney Gen-
cral, and Dr. Alberto Romero, Minister of Wer and Marine, with the view to
securing the exclusive concession to fish the Galapagcs Islands and the vaters
of Ecuador. A tentative contrect was drawn up, later modified by certain
amendments, and it was arrenged for her to go to Ecuador and complete it.
In the grounds of the Washinston Hotel &t Cristobal, vhile waiting for a ship
to Guayaquil, she vas approeched by a Jananese, who in a very nesty manner,
warned her not to go on to cuador, thot the Japanese wanted no interference
there, and that the fovernment would eventually teke over all the islands
from their mandated Marshals and Carolines to the South American co st, in-
cluding the French Islands and the Galapagos. The Countess said she was
startled and made somewhat nervous by the Jap's attitude, but decided to go
on anyway. The day she arrived in Guayaquil, and before proceeding to Quito,
she received a telephone call from someone who again warned her not to go
ahead with her plens, and told her that she would not reach Quito if she
started there. This second warning got her nerve, so she and her husband em-
barked on the first boat to return to U. S. On the decr of this ship the
night before sailing, a Japanese came directly up to her and told her he wes
glad to see that she was a sensible woman and was returning to the U.S.,
and advised her to drop all plans for getting the concession. He left the ship
and went ashore before she sailed. She arrived in Los ngeles from Ecuador on
Concdeatial

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
Codentiai
Dec., and has by no means given up the idea. Prior to going south, she
claims she had the financial backing to put the deal through, but now, such
backing has been withdrawn through the efforts of V. M. Egns, listed in the
Los Angeles city directory as Ecuadorean consul. She says Egas is a fake,
has been dismissed by his government and discredited, and that he is in the
pay of the Japanese, - that the nearest Ecuadorean Consul is in San Francisco.
(Egas is still listed es the Ecuaoorean Consul out here. This might be eesily
checked through their Minister in Washington - not, hovever, through any Navy
inquiry. Also Countess Hamon said she knew the Ecuadorean Minister in Washing-
ton. Check this by other than naval inquiry, as it would never do for him to
suspect that the Navy Department is interested.
The Countess' idea in going to Washin ton w's to interest
the Secretary of the Navy in getting financial backing for her fishing con-
cession, which, enforced by rigid patrols of vessels flying the Fcuadorean
flag (as outlined in the contract) vould keep the Jananese out of the Galapagos
Islands (8o0 miles from the Panama Canal). She says the 1slands are & no-mans
land at present, that Japanese, American, Portuguese, Italien, etc., fishermen
fish at all seasons with no regard for spawning tine and with no restrictions
from the Ecuadorean government which is poverless to stop them. She also states
that there are 50 or more Japanese fishing boats there at all times.
I was favorably impressed with both the Count and his wife.
They are cultured, well read, eductted people, quiet of manner, know the world,
and have travelled about & lot. She was in the British Red Cross in Frence
during the wer and says Lord Kitchener wes one of her best frienus.
I  sked her if she had been ennoyed by Japanese since her
return, and she replied in the negative, but added thet at le: st ten different
Japanese gardeners had been at her house from time to time, wanting to take care
of her gardens for as little as 50 cents a dey. That, of course, is her ctory,
but if true, is significant.
On Wednesdey of next week, I am getting & complete set of
all correspondence thet has passed between the liamons and others in regerd to
her concession, and will send them to you by registered mail for you to peruse
at your leisure. I know there's no chance of the Hamons getting any financial
backing through the Navy Department, but if, &fter reading over the file of her
correspondence, you think enything of it, such becking might be arranged other-
wise. She believes (British view) that if our Navy Department wants islands of
great strategic value, they would go about getting them as the Eritish Admiralty
would do, in any way possible so long as the safety of the Fmpire was enhenced
thereby.
Another name mentioned in the course of our conversation wes
that of Sam Hornstein of the Yest Coast Fisheries Corporation. He was born in
Japan and goes back there periodically. I wes told by one of my men in Los
Angeles that our office has something in the files on him, but frankly, I haven't
had time to look him up. Countess Hamon thinks that he is also in the pay of
the Japanese, and helped block her efforts to get backing out here, in connection
with Egas.
Count Hamon has taken out his first papers, April 1933, so
his two years are up three months hence. She has not declared her intention,
her idea being that as a British citizen she would get more favoreble action
out of the Ecuadorean government. Othervise, she would have declared her in-
- 2 -

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
Confidential
tion with her husband. (She, by the way, is the guiding spirit in the
ramily).
Personally, I think they have a good thing. Put into the
hands of the right people and given the financial backing they need to get
the exclusive concession, maintained by force - if necessary - by the proper
patrols, we could eliminate one very serious menace to the Panama Canal from
the west.
I discouraged any proposed visit by her to Washington on
the grounds that the less publicity the better. When I asked for her files
to send on to the Department, she readily agreed to let me have them, and
I'm getting them next week.
It is urgent thet you return them to me by safe conveyance
when you've got all you want out of them, as I promised to see that she got
them back when no longer needed. Also, I'd like to have a copy of this letter,
for my files and to show to the Commandant if he desires to see it. We have
the 5 day week out here, and no clerical help is available on Saturdays,
hence this longhand and the request to you for a copy of this letter, if
you'll be so good.
Further check is being made on the Hamons and I've put a
watch on Egas. I may possibly be able to get at his place and see what he
has in the way of papers.
Please advise if you want anything further done out here
in this particular matter. I'd like to know what, if anything, can be done
back east on this. If nothing, give me some logical and reasonable explana-
tion to pass on to Countess Hamon when I return her papers to her.
I'll be in Los Angeles londay, Tuesday and Wednesday of
next week on official business.
Best wishes,
Sincorely,
Greyson.
(Hamon may be checked to a certein extent back east thru the McMillan
Publishing Company).
 1

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.95)
Dp-16-1
File
Hamou7
ws
My deer Countess Hamon:
I wish to acknowl dge your letter of 15 Januery,
1935, and to thenk you for your court sy in fortarding the in-
0p-16-1
formation contsined therein.
0p-16
Your offer to come to Washington for en inter-
view is appreciated, but in view of the personel expense to
0p-11
which you would be put, and the fect that contact hes already
0p-10
been established with you by an officer representing the Com-
mandant of the Eleventh Nevel District, it is believed that this
effort on your part mey very well be svoided. However, if at
eny time you should be in T: chington, I, of course, rould be glnd
to see you.
It is regretted, that in the nstter of becking and
financial sssistance for your enterprise, the Navy Department is
unable to assist you.
Sincerely yours,
Secretary of the Navy.
Countess K.F. . Hamon,
Dictated 6 February, 1935.
Dictated by Capdain Stapler,
4717 Hollywood Boulevard,
Typed by M. Haynes.
Hollywood, California.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.94)
DIVISION UP
LTLLAMERICANAFPH
VAe mal
NOV 151935
LA
we
TMENT OF STATE
REOEIVED
Queyeqa1l, Eouador, Movember 6, 1935.
NOV 1 6 1935
Ender G. L. Weyler, USN.,
Neval Attsché,
Americen Embasgy,
Lime, Perú.
Dear Commender Weyler:
I om in receipt of your letter of Novomber B.
l935, regarding the press reports of submarines being
seen in the Galepagos Islands. Suoh reports heve been
published here also from correspondents on the islends.
The enelosed olipping from L UNIVERSO, leading deily
894.20222/6
newapeper of Guayaquil, gives the account that was
published in sev rel other papers and edds e rough
map or sketeh of the place where the ships were seen
showing the supposed foreign warship end the mubmerines.
The people who sre the best informed about events
on the Galapagos are managers and employees of the
Sociedad Continental, e Spanish firm whieh Operates 
radio station at Sen Cristobal, Galapagos, and also
operetes the ship whioh merves those islends from
Guayequil. Mr. Fernando Meulma, the mnneger of that
concern at Gueyaquil, has been interviewed on the sub-
jeet or the submarines. He stetes that their radio
operator escerteined that there were several submerines
of small size in the waters of the Galepagos sccompanied
by a mother ship, but that the number of the submerines
could not be escertained. Locording to the same radio
operetor, messeges were sent by the foreign warahtps
in poor inglish es well es in code end the operator as
well as the other employees of the Sooiedad Continental
NOV 16·1
)iving on the islands are firmly convinoed that the
shipa are Japanese. No definite information about the
netionelity or the ships has been escertained.  The
Ecuedoren Government hes only e sailing vessel in the
案
islands und it is said to be unable to epproech the
warshipe. The PRESIDENTE ALPARO formerly the ARA is
16 1935
now temporarily disabled at Gueyaquil owing to the feot
that the engineere of the Eouedoran nevy scem not to
be femiliar with Diesel engines. Thus this ship is un-
able to go to investigete the report or the presonce
of foreign warships in the Galapagos.
Mmployees of the Sociedad Contánentel and Mr. Dme

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.88)
-8
mglinh whieh it used ia zending messegeé.
The ceaerel opiaies, whieh is coafirmed by Mr. marms.
meems to be thut the kmerleam ships from mem Diege ur Sem
Pedre, C lifornis, come dewn to riae but that the Japamess
fisking boets eeme down ror other purposes. Mr. Burms
Ing the early part of this year and saw Japenese fishing
beats three or four times. His opiniom is thet these
ships ere too far away from Japam to be fiskinge Oa the
ether hamé, it hes been reported that some Amerieam fishe
ing veseels engaged in fiahing in these waters edrvy eems
Japemese as members of their erews. For example, Ceptain
Ress of eme of the Grese Lime skips at one time stated
that ome of the meriean fishimg beats while at Pemame had
trouble with the Ameriean erew whe obj oted to the employ-
mnt of Japenese. Nr. Burns seye that the erems ef the
American rishing bocts ere mainly Portuguese. Be seys thet
the fishing ls done a few miles out to ses but thet the
bosts must come close to the shore in harbors in oruer to
obtain bait. lie atys thet the boats do not fly flegs nor
reveel their icentity es they are regsrded by the Bousdor
en Covernment es violating its laws.
I h ve no reason to doubt the belier by the employees
of the Socic ue. continental in their atatomente that the
subwrines were seen cnd that they ere J panese. shether
the ships re otue ly Japanese does not seem to be well
estaslished but c oirounstanoes :re such ne to oause
conjectures. I. Surns is retur ing to the islends within
e few caye tnd promises to let this consulate Gen rel know
tthare
If ny rurt ur info metion or in erest en the gen rel
subj ot is obtci .ed, it will  ccmmnic tec to you prompt-
ly by ir muil.
rosp ut:ully youra.
lbonough
in
srin cotsul Gone).
nolosure:
1. suttim from
L
tiunuito
tottoft

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.96)
UNIVERSO
Servielo Cable
31 de Qambre.-(UP
Libra ester
Franco
0.06.59
Lira
0.08.11
es el más
formaciones nacionales y cablegráficas son las má amplias e importantes, por
periódico del Pais y el de mayor prestigio, por su seriedad,
Franco suizo
Belga
0.16.84
0.32.50
me circulación  porque sus maquinarias son las nayores en la República
Director: Ismael Pérez Pazmi
VIERNES 1o. DE NOVIEMIRE DE 1935
Sub-Director: Sucre Pérez Q.
érase Aún la Nacionalida
Submarinos
s Vistos en Las Ga
DE WASHINGTON Y
QUE NO SON YAN
ISLA
LA PRIMERA DUDA
Sta.f
Lo Cierto es Que
Archipiélago
Hidrográfico
SAN CRISTODAL, (Archip
Jago de Colón), 31 de Octub
EXTRANJEROS
Desde Puetto Baquerizo  se
observado la presencla de 
flotilla de submarinos que
moviliza entre San Cristóbal
las islas cerçanas de Santa
y Española realizando mister
sas maniobras. - Se presume
verifican estudios hidrográfi
como son: direcclón, ranlfi
ciones y temperatura de la
ESPAÑODA
constitución del fondo del m
rriente de Humboldt, relieve
etc.; pero puede ser tambl
que estudien esta zona desde
S
punto de vista ectratégiço.
No se ha podido precisarh
ta el momento la naciónali
de los submarinos
El grabado repreduce la zona del- Archiplélago
Colón en la
dean en este territorio inau
eual realiza exploraciones y maniobras cuyo fin se desconoce, la flo-
nl del barco de guerra que
illa de submarinos que se presume sean de nacionalidad japunesa. Los
compaña a la flotilla y
movimientos se operan entre San Cristóbal, isla habitada donde nues-
se encuentra "anclado frent
tro Goblerno tlene una guarniclón de diez hombres,
las islas de
Santa Fé (Barrington), peqt
Santa Fe 
Española, totalmente despobladas.
isla situada a unas s0 m
Por faita de medios materia les
la
guarnición militar se halla
de San Cristóbal y visible
imposibilitada de impedir la arbitraria
presencia de naves extranjeras
de Puerto Baquerizo. Biu-e
en nuestras aguas territoriales.
des en afirmar que pertene
a la marina de guerra japo
sa.
El bote de vela que t
nuestro Gobierno en el pu
antes mencionado, ha hech
tentativa de acercarse
submarinos, pero tan pronte
no se advlerte esta
gran distancla. Por lo
Española

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.85)
Servlo
31 de
Libra este
Fratico
Lira
Beiga
Franco suiso
1935
Direetor: Ismael P
T: Lamael Peres Castro.
Bub-Director: susre
Jefe: José A. Campos.
 la Nacionalidad de Los
Vistos en Las Galápagos
DE WASHINGTON Y VALPARAISO DECLARAN
QUE NO SON YANQUIS NI CHILENOS Y EN
Pto. BAQUERIzD
LA PRIMERA DUDAN QUE SEAN JAPONESES
Lo Cierto es Que Esas Naves Recorren el
Archipiélago Efectuando Estudios
Hidrográficos o de Estrategia
SAN CRISTODAL, (Archiple
duda para probar.
EXTRANJEROS
iago de (olon), 31 de Octubre.
Sería de desear que nuestro
Desde Pueito Baquerizo se ha
Gobierno envie el crucero Pre-
observado la presencla de una
sidente Alfaro para que resguar
fotilla de submarinos que e
de cste
Archiptélago tan tre-
meviliza cntre San Cristobal y
la, l cercanas de Santa Fe
cuentado
tranjeros, haclendo re-petar 1
barcos
1-panola realizando misterio-
soberanta
del Ecuador en este
a imaniebras. Se presume que
apartado territorio.
15LA
veritiein estudios hidrograficos,
SO SON YANQUIS LOS
Cno
son dreclon. ramifiea
SUBMARINOS
clones  temperatura de la Co
BALBOA. 3L.—(UP)_La- -
ESPAÑOUA
ente de tumboldt, relheve y
toridades navaies dicen que os
constitecion del fondo del mar,
ubmarino. que megún  a-
etc: pero puele ser, también,
sura. han ido istos en  cos
que etutdien esta zona desde eà
ta ecuatoriana, no pertene: en 
punto de vi-t.a
e tratégico.
la Zona det Canal. porque los
sumergibies nortcamericano,
m m ato  nacionalidad
más uperan en esa áre
is
que mero-
WASHGTONLOP
manuebras
drn cn este territorio in-ular.
 departamento de la
Pir.n7
presin an de
to olelal
aumergibles
talmente de-pobttd
a arhua
1.3
visible den
30 inillas
1-1as Galapages.
guas ccuntortna cera 
11
ties.
Sin embar
estan acor
pertneeen
de
1ie Hene
cl puerto
ha hecho la
Intención
aleja a
1:1r

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.2022
622.9415/10
D.sp.269
SEE
FOR
FROM.
Ecuador
Sparks
) DATED
Feb.13,1936.
TO
NAME
1-1187
2
7
Japanese desire to control Galapagos Islands.
REGARDING:
Jonviotion is general that - in the cun of
in emergency.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20222/
622.9415/10
Dusp.#269
SEE
FOR
FROM
Ecuador
Sparks
) DATED
Feb.13,1936.
TO
NAME
1-1127
7
Japanese desire to control Galapagos Islands.
REGARDING:
Conviotion is general that - in the case of
an emergency.
FU
7

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.95)
FN
DIVISION
MAR 3
inEllin I8
CEARIMENT OFSTATE
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
810:00
Guayaquil, Ecuador, February 16, 1938.
B
1.1
SUBJECT: Japanese propaganda in Ecuador.
10
THE HONORABLE
894.20222/8
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
I have the honor to report that Japanese
propaganda has become slightly more active in
Ecuador recently, but is stiil not intense nor
effective.
1.
Pamphlets in in lish such as the enclosed
entitled "How the ffair in North China rose"
F/A
have been Cistriuuted .t Gueyacuil. The Japarese
Consul at Guaye uil,  is an Ecuadoran, ns
distributed to ell membors of the Consuler Jorps
2.
of Guayacuil & pamnhlet (copy enclosed) in the
Spanish lenguace entitled "El Comunisno en
Oriente" ("Communism in the  rient"). The
pamphlet in Spavish was printed in Lime, Peru.
The pamphlet in Spanish (pacs 23-24) rejects
int rvention by the Lea ue ef Hati ons or by the
Nine Powers and states that the conflict between
China and Janan must be settled by direct ne gotia-
tions. The terms stated are as follows: linitation
of Chinese armaments; the rormation of e now
Chinese armed force to keep peace and order in
Chinese

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
Chinose territory; the formation of new Chinese
government which will cooperate to increase economic
relations with Japan; the recognition by China of the
Manchukuo Empire; the immediate termination of
anti-Japanese propaganda in all Chinese territory;
and the emancipation of the Chinese government from
all the powerful Soviet influences that now inspire
its actions. The pamphlet concludes by declaring
that Japan is carrying on a crusade in eastern Asia
in favor of peace and civilization and that nothing
or nobody can prevent it from carrying out its work
of saving a continent from Bolshevism.
Respactfully yours,
AmericanConsu
General
Enclosures:
1. Copy of pamphlet entitled "How the Affair in
Horth China Arose". (Cosy enclosed vith
original only).
2. Copy of pamphlet entitlcd "El Conmunismo en
Oriente". (Copy enclosed ith original
only).
820.02
DCLCD/aje
In quintuplicate to Department of State.
Copy to American Levatien, uito.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.92)
A
Jarinl d lo Es
ttude arnsica
EL COMUNISMO
EN ORIENTE
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 643 dated
February 16, 1938, from Dayle C. McDonough,
American Consul General, Guayaquil, Bouador,
on the subject Japanese propaganda in
"Ecuador".
Exegesis ue ws uniecruenies, causas
y consecuencias del actual conflicto
chino - japonés
"PERU JIHO" Y "LIMA NIPPO"
LIMA - 1937
PHISI OUME NTA POP LF RETURNED TO THE
DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
EL COMUNISMO
EN ORIENTE
Exégesis de los antecedentes, causas
y consecuencias del actual conflicto
chino - japonés
"PERU JIHO" Y "LIMA NIPPO"
LIMA - 1937

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
con la institución ginebrina a la que no pertenece, constata, sin embar-
go, con sincero pesar, el poco prestigio y la poca respetabilidad de la
Liga de las Naciones que denuncia, como ella lo ha hecho, a un pais,
tomando como única base digna de crédito, las informaciones parcia-
les y falsas de algunas agencias noticiosas o del propio país interesa-
do en agravar el conflicto y sin considerar la tremenda responsabili-
dad que, con ello, asume contra una Nación que está desplegando to-
dos los esfuerzos de su pueblo y de sus organismos, con enormes sacri-
ficios, a fin de combatir la injusticia y la politica errónea de un país
que amenaza su existencia y obstaculiza su desenvolvimiento.
Tampoco la solución advendrá de la Conferencia de las Nueve
Potencias. Hace pocos dias, se declaró en receso indefinido, después
de algunas deliberaciones en Bruselas. Es que el Japón tampoco par-
ticipó de esa conferencia, a la que fué especialmente invitado por el
gobierno belga, porque comprendía que existía en ella el mismo espi-
ritu que en Ginebra, como que todos sus participantes están incorpo-
rados a la Liga.
Lo proclamamos sin eufemismos. El actua! conflicto en el Asia
Oriental sólo podrá resolverse mediante las negociaciones directas e
inmediatas entre el Japón y la China, las dos naciones sobre las que
recae el peso común de la responsabilidad de los destinos de esa parte
importante del Viejo Mundo. Las bases de una solución aceptable se-
rian: la limitación armamentista en la China; la formación de un nuevo
Cuerpo Chino Armado para el mantenimiento de la paz y del orden
dentro del territorio chino; la formación de un gobierno chino que
preste colaboración al desarrollo de las relaciones económicas con el Ja-
pón; el reconocimiento, por parte de la China, del Imperio Manch
húo; poner fin inmediato a la propaganda anti-japonesa en todo e!
territorio chino; y emancipar al gobierno chino de las poderosas in-
fluencias soviéticas que ahora inspiran casi todos sus actos.
El Japón está librando actualmente, en el Asia Oriental, la má
bella cruzada en favor de la paz y de la civilización. Nada ni nadie,
por eso, seria capaz de detenerlo en la realización de esos objetivos
supremos que se vinculan a la estabilidad social de un continente, se
riamente amenazada por la irrupción de la avalancha bolchevique y
que se yergue como una sombría interrogación para el porvenir de la
humanidad.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 1.00)
Precio: Un Sol

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.97)
cuador."
THE FORLIGN AFFAIRS ASSOCIATION OF JAPAN
Price : 40 sen

=== Page 38 === (confidence 1.00)
HOW THE NORTH CHINA
AFFAIR AROSE

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
First Edition: August 20, 1937
Revised Edition: August 25, 1937
Fourth Impression: Nov. 22, 1937
Printed in Japan
At the Kenkyusha Press

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.98)
(ity Wall of Tungchow as t Looked after the Encounter between Lapanese and (hinese Troops Yomiurt photo

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.92)
Five Minutes' Massage: Japanese Soldiers at Tientsin Asal/ phro

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.77)
pamese Cooes at Kuangummen. Peopime
en oneved Po 26 of Chinese Soder

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.96)
e
Lapanese Telephone Operstors at Work at Langfang Station
Yomiuri pboto

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.72)
sses o the Pop Ped up at the Japanese   a t

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.93)
Street Fighting in Tientsin The (Chinese Almost Captured the Lapanese Concesston on Juiy 29 Irahe photo

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.85)
(oolineu
Japanese Soldiers at the Iront I njov ine A Slice of W atermelon
1.1111101

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.98)
For the Soldiers in North China: Lach Woman Passing in the Strects of Tokyo Contribute One Stitch to the " Senninbari
the Healthbands of a Ihousand Sutches, to be Sent to the Japanese Soldiers in North China Asabi photo

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
HOW THE NORTH CHINA
AFFAIR AROSE
WHY FOREIGN TROOPS IN CHINA?
Peiping, then the capital of China's last monarchical régime
and known as Peking, became the focal point of world attention
and concern auring the Boxer Insurrection of 19o0—the now
historic uprising of a superstitious Chinese mob, led by reckless
champions of anti-foreignism, against the entire community of
foreign residents in the city. Worldwide sympathy was evoked
by the sufferings and privations of the foreign colony while pent
up in the beseiged Legation Quarter and which, incidentally,
are deftly described in A. Conan Doyle's story "A Pot of
Cariar." The firle of this incident was the conclusion of a
treaty by which Britain, America, Belgium, Italy and Japan were
cmpowered to station troops at several places near Peiping and
Tientsin for the purposes of safeguarding communications bet-
ween the capital and the adjacent city port and of protecting
their respective Legations and nationals residing in this area.
Troops of the respective Powers (except Belgium) have since
then been detailed to Peiping, Tientsin, Shanhaikwan, Chin-
wangtao, Tangku and Tungchichichu and have continued to
discharge the duties assigned them by the stipulations in the
treaty.
The disorder and periodic upheavals which lack of authority
and endless civil wars have caused throughout the whole of
China, especially after the fall of the Empire in 1912, have made
the maintenance of special means of protection an absolute
necessity. Though all recognize that the presence of armed
foreign forces in the territory of a friendly State is abnormal,
none of the Powers have been able as yet to relinquish this only
effective way of securing the safety of their nationals. British,
American, Italian and Japanese gunboats steam up the Yangtse
River to points 1,s00 miles inland. Marines are stationed in
all important cities. Only the presence of these warships and
I

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.97)
men has safeguarded the homes of foreigners from being robbed
and looted and has prevented the foreigners themseives from
bcing murdered in cold blood.
During the years leading up to the establishment of the
Government in Nanking, China was a chaos of conflict. Re-
presentatives of the Powers who assembied at Washington in
1921 sought by various means to help China put her house in
order and expressed the wish, preliminarily to considering the
gradual withdrawal of their own armed forces, that the Chinese
armies which overran the country be brought under control
and reduced to reasonable strength. However, the Nationalist
armies themselves were soon to tax foreign patience to the limit.
In 192s fighting reached the outer limits of Shanghai, and to
prevent an invasion of the International Settlement itself all
foreign troops were stationed at their defense positions.
The shooting of student demonstrators in Shanghai fanned
the flames of a fierce anti-British campaign throughout China,
with the result that British and American missionaries were kil-
led. In 1927 the war-mad troops attacked foreign residents and
"entered Nanking with the definite licence, if not instructions,
to rob and kill foreigners."
The concessions in Hankow and Kiukiang were wreste
from Britain by force; the Japanese concession in Hankow
narrowly escaped a similar fate. Great Britain sent 15,000
troops to Shanghai to protect her interests. Japan sent troops
to Tsinan, and she still remembers the atrocities committed by
the Nationalist forces on her residents there.
This brief summary adequately explains why all the Powers
still have to maintain troops on Chinese soil.
The numerical strength and military equipment of the f
eign forces in the Peiping-Tientsin area just before the rece
clash are tabulated below :
Orficers
NCO. &
privates
Total
Machine
guns
Cannon
Tanks & A
mored(C
Japan
U.S.A.
221
69
3.859
1.158
4.080
1.227
173
121
38
1;
9
r1
I Extract from a statement concerning the Nanking outrage signed by the Rev A.
J. Bowen, President of Nanking University, and 16 other members of educational inst
tions and missionaries in China. See also the statement of Sir A. Chamberlain in the
House of Commons, March 30, 1927.
2

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.98)
Britain
37
962
999
64
10
France
65
1,774
1,839
135
26
10
Italy
12
374
384
62
4
4
Japan's military force of 4,o8o men shown above gives
protection to 16,99s Japanese residents, whereas the combined
force of the other Powers, or 4,449 men, to 10,338 non-Japanese
foreign residents. Thus Japan's military force in the Peiping-
Tientsin area is proportionately smaller than that of the other
Powers, and if consideration is given to Japan's material interests
in that region which are at stake, the difference is even greater.
The Foreign Legation Quarter in Peiping is the actual seat
of the Commanding Staffs and garrisons of the five Powers,
but it is out of the question for them to hold maneuvers, which
are necessary for the maintenance of their troops' efficiency,
inside the walls of the thickly populated city. Consequently all
the forces garrisoned in North China have been accustomed to
carry on maneuvers without being subjected to any restriction
as to time or locality. A southeastern suburb commonly known
as  Happy Valley is the location used by the American troops for
this purpose. To the British and other foreign troops have
been allotted suburban districts north of Happy Valley. The
Japanese contingent is accustomed to hold exercises on a flat
area along one bank of the Yungting River, which flows through
the southwestern suburb of Peiping. This area is nearly two
miles from the city and was specially chosen because it is suffi-
ciently isolated from the thickly populated districts between the
river and the city.
A Chinese garrison is situated in Yuanping, near Lukou-
chiao, in the vicinity of the so-called Marco Polo Bridge (be-
cause the famous traveller mentions the bridge in his narrative,
this name has been given by foreigners to the Lukouchiao
Bridge); and this fact has in the past occasi nally given rise
to minor troubles which, however, were amicably settled.
The Notes of July, 1902, exchanged between Japan and
China, provide that with the exception of gun practice in which
live ammunition is used, no notice need be given for individual
mancuvers. However, as a matter of fact, it has been the cus-
tom of the Japanese military authorities to serve advance notice
on every occasion for the benefit of the local inhabitants.
3

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
THE CLASH AT LUKOUCHIAO
On Wednesday night, July 7th, a small unit of Japanese troops
was engaged in maneuvers on their usual grounds in the vicinity
of Lukouchiao and Lungwangmiao—villages which stand on the
left bank of the Yungting River (see map). With the regular!
summer inspection but a fortnight ahead, all Japanese troops in!
the area had been drilling day and night for weeks. The!
Chinese authorities had been notified of these maneuvers as
usual, and nothing untoward had occurred or been anticipated.
But suddenly, at 11:4o o'clock on this particular night,
the Japanese troops were fired upon by Chinese soldiers from
the directions of Lukouchiao and Lungwangmiao. The Japanese
were completely taken by surprise and were utterly unprepared
to return the fire, for they were only 1so strong and their supply
of live ammunition amounted only to one ball-cartridge per
man, which was being kept by the commanding officer. All
that they could do at this critical moment was to halt their
mancuvers, concentrate at a spot some distance from the Chinese,
and send for help to their headquarters, situated about two and
a half miles away in the former British barracks at Fengtai.
Reinforcements came quickly, and when the Japanese replied
to the Chinese fire with real shots, the first clash occurred.
EFFORTS TO ACHIEVE PEACEFUL SETTLEMENT
The Chinese authorities at Peiping were immediately noti-
fied, and a joint Sino-Japanese mediation party hurried to the
scene. Before it arrived, however, the Chinese troops at s:2o a.m.
again opened fire. A cessation of hostilities was at last arranged
for at 6:oo o'clock on Thursday morning. However, the Chi-
nese soldiers, either in ignorance or in wilful disregard of the
terms of the settlement, fired on the Japanese troops, who were
forced to protect themselves. So fighting broke out for the se-
cond time at 3:oo o'clock in the afternoon, and for the third
time at 6:00 o'clock in the evening.
A more definite agreement for maintaining a truce was reach-
ed on Friday, July 9th, between Colonel Matsui of the Japanese
Special Mission Service at Peiping and the representatives of
the z9th Army, according to which the Chinese were to with-
4

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.99)
w to the right bank of the Yungting and the Japanese to
main on the lcft. Save for spasmodic shots fined by the
inese soldiery in various localitics, this day passed in compara-
e quiet.
The Chinese troops involved in this affair were a part of
37th Division, belonging to the z9th Army. This division,
der the command of General Feng Chi-an, was composed of
mnants of General Feng Yu-hsiang's troops, well-known for
eir anti-Japanese spirit. In view of the fact that for several
onths previous the Communists and Blue Shirts had been
usily carrying on propaganda for the so-called " Anti-Japanese
cople's Front," the attitude of these troops was a matter of
oncern to both the Chinese and Japanese authorities. Accord-
igly it was with no small relief that the news of a speedy
ettlement of the affair was received.
On the following day, however, at about s:oo o'clock in the
fternoon approximately 1o0 Chinese soldiers, in violation of the
terms of the truce, appeared with trench mortars 3 miles to the
north of Lukouchiao and launched an attack upon the Japanese.
At 7:00 o'clock another Chinesc contingent of some 100 men
marched into the village of Lungwangmiao from a northwesterly
direction and there opened fire upon the Japanese, who then
aunched a counter attack and drove the Chinese from the vil-
lage. These clashes were ended by an agreement between the
authorities of the two sides to suspend hostilities for the night.
The situation seemed quiet for the moment and some mem-
bers of the Tokyo Government had even left the capital, when,
on Saturday afternoon, July roth, news poured into Tokyo
concerning the northward movements of the armies of the
Chinese Central Government, the mobilization of air forces in all
parts of China, and the proclamation of martial law in the Peiping
area. The rapid worsening of the situation causing imminent
danger to Japanesc lives in North China became apparent.
DISQUIETING DEVELOPMENTS AND THE TOKYO
GOVERMENT'S STATEMENT
In view of these disquieting developments members of the
Cabinet speedily assembled late on July roth and discussed the
question of sending troops to North China in order to forestall

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
any untoward event that might precipitate a general clasl
At the same time, without abandoning the hope of effecting a
early settlement, or at least of minimizing the affair, the Goverr
ment on Sunday morning, July rith, sent instructions to th
authorities on the spot to continue endeavors in this directior
On the basis of these instructions, negotiations were conducte
with the Chinese; an agreement was reached on July rith, and a
4:00 o'clock in the afternoon the Chinese representatives, Genera
Chang Tsu-chung, mayor of Tientsin, and General Ying Yung
chief of the Public Safety Bureau of Hopei, wrote to the Japa
nese representative, Colonel Matsui, agreeing to the following
terms :
(1) Apology to be made by the representatives of the z9th Army
and punishment of those directly responsible.
(2) Chinese troops to evacuate Lukouchiao and to be replaced by
the Peace Preservation Corps for the purpose of keeping the Chinese
troops sufficiently separated from the Japanese.
(3) Adequate measures to be taken for curbing the activities of the
Blue Shirts and Communists.
It will be clearly seen that these terms were extremely casy
to carry out, having no political or economic significance
whatsoever, and that the intention of the unoffending side was
to arrive at as rapid and simple a settlement as possible.
Meanwhile, in Tokyo the Japanese Government had been
studying measures for coping with the situation. The dec-
sion to send necessary forces to North China was reached
in view of the alarming news which continued to arrie
regarding the provocative actions of the 29th Army sc
diers, and the movements of Chinese troops not only in North
China but also in South Hopei. The following statement was
issued by the Japanese Government at 4:oo p.m. on that day:
The Japanese forces garrisoned in North China have always main-
tained a calm and patient attitude toward successive anti-Japanese out-
bursts in North China. On the night of July 7th an unfortunate clash
occurred when the Japanese troops were wantonly fired upon by soldiers
of the z9th Army, which had been co-operating with our torces in main-
taining peace and order in that region. This led to such an atmosphere
of tension in the Peiping and Tientsin districts as to cause deep anxiety
for the safety of the lives and property of Japanese nationals. However,
the earnest endeavors of the Japanese authorities to localize the affair
6

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.98)
h and prevent further aggravation succeeded in bringing the z9th Army
authorities to agree to a peaceful settlement.
On the night of July roth, however, soldiers of the z9th Army, in
1
violation of the agreement, suddenly fired upon Japanese troops, causing
It
considerable casualties. The Chinese have since pushed warlike prepara-
tions by increasing their forces on the front lines; the troops stationed
at Siyuan have advanced to the South, while troops of the Central
Government have been moved forward. The Chinese have thus not
only failed to evince any sincere desire for a peaceful solution, but have
gone the length of flatly rejecting all of Japan's offers for amicable
settlement, thus leaving no room for doubt that the present inci-
dent is the outcome of a well-organized agitation for warlike action
against Japan.
There is no need of stressing the vital importance to Japan and
Manchoukuo of the maintenance of peace and order in North China.
What is most urgently needed for the peace of East Asia is that the
Chinese not only apologize for their most recent lawless actions and mani-
festations of antagonism to Japan, but give adequate guarantee against a
recurrence of such outrages in the future. An important decision has
been reached by the Japanese Government at today's Cabinet meeting
to take all necessary measures for dispatching military forces to North
China.
But, desirous as ever of preserving the peace of East Asia, the Japa-
nese Government has not abandoned its hope that negotiations may yet
assure the non-aggravation of the situation, and that prompt reconsider-
ation on the part of China may bring about an amicable solution. The
Japanese Government is, of course, prepared to give full consideration
to the safeguarding of the rights and interests of the Powers in China.
CONSIDERATIONS PROMPTING THE
DISPATCH OF TROOPS
The announcement that troops were to be dispatched to
North China was not intended to frighten China into submission,
nor did it mean that Japan was embarking upon a war with her
neighbor. The action taken by the Japanese Government was en-
tirely in keeping with its avowed intention not to aggravate the
situation; it was calculated to forestall any conflict which would
inevitably lead to hostilities on a major scale. In the face of
repeated failures on the part of the Chinese to carry out their
promises, and especially in the light of past experiences with
excited, uncontrolled and uncontrollable Chinese soldiery, the
task of protecting the lives and property of large numbers of
Japanese nationals in the affected areas requires more numerical

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.99)
strength than the garrison troops now stationed there can affor
The Nanking incident of 1o years ago mentioned above is bi
one illustration of what defenseless foreigners may have to suffe
at the hands of undisciplined Chinese troops. Memory of th
189 houses looted, of the men, women and children tortured
defiled and killed when the Nationalist troops occupied Tsina
in 1927, is still fresh in the mind of the Japanese nation. Th
Japanese garrison troops in North China would be heavily ou
numbered if they were attacked by the troops of the 29th Arm
which is stationed in and around the Peiping and Tientsin dis
tricts. Should such eventualities occur, all hopes would be lo:
for an early and amicable settlement of the problem. Mort
over, the fact should not be overlooked that the rank and fi
of the 29th Army, which consists of the remnants of Fen
Yu-hsiang's once-famous "National Armies," have always be:
notoriously anti-Japanese, the more so of late since they hay
been tutored in the teachings of the Communists. It wis thu
more than doubtful whether they could be held in leash.
In fact, only a few hours after an agreement for a truc
had been reached, a Japanese staff officer sent to treat with th
Chinese troops at Lukouchiao was fired upon. Later, the Chi
nese troops stationed at Yamenkou advanced upon Lungwang
miao, the village that was to be evacuated. And during
night Chinese troops were violently firing at each other eres
the Yungting River, each group in the belief that the o
were Japanese.
NANKING BLAMES JAPAN
No sooner had the present incident arisen than the
Nanking authorities embarked upon a vigorous campaign of pro-
paganda, both at home and abroad, accusing Japan of impr-
ing China's sovereignty and conducting a war of conquest.
According to official Chinese information, it would apear
that the Japanese troops were illegally stationed in North(
that their holding of maneuvers constituted an encroach ment
on Chinese territorial integrity and, moreover, that the Lukou-
chiao affair had been engineered by Japanese military authorties
who had ulterior motives such as, for instance, the occup ton
of that village to control the Peiping-Hankow Railway.
8

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.99)
In support of this contention a story was circulated to the
effect that it was the Japanese soldiers who fired at Chinese sen-
tinels while the latter were looking for a missing comrade and
that the Japanese tried to force their way into the village of
Lukouchiao. This is a plausible falsehood that migh be taken
for the truth by those who are unacquainted with the actual
circumstances and the topography of the village in question.
Let us establish the facts. In the first place, Lukouchiao, being
always jealously guarded by Chinese, is a village which Japa-
nese soldiers had been instructed not to enter. In the second
place, in order to approach the village gate from the field of
maneuvers it is necessary twice to cross the railway track on
a high embankment. It is utterly inconceivable that any Japa-
nese soldier, even if he became lost in the familiar tract of land,
should have ever wandered over and across those steep railway
tracks into the village against the strict warnings of his supe-
riors, and unnecessarily court danger in the middle of the night.
Again, even assuming that the affair had been planned by the
Japanese military, would they have chosen that particular method
of relying upon a handful of men equipped with one ball-cart-
ridge per head ?--or would they have chosen that particular spot
which is vastly advantageous to the Chinese occupying the hills
en the western side?—or, in view of the large military
movements which such a coup would involve, would they
have chosen the particular night when the commander of
the Tientsin garrison lay ill and was on the verge of death,
and when the officer next in command was absent from his post,
having departed on an inspection tour to Shanhaikwan? Final-
ly, if they had really wanted to hold the railway, would they
have proposed the withdrawal of troops from Lukouchiao and
promptly put their proposal into practice? Would they in any
case have provoked large scale operations when they were sur-
rounded by 8,ooo Chinese troops and when their own troops,
consisting only of the garrisons distributed over the Peiping-
Tientsin area, were at a disadvantage of more than 1o to 1?
A tentative answer to the above questions is furnished by
the opinion of a neutral and experienced observer, the Peiping
correspondent of The Times (London), whose report of July
8th appeared under the heading, " Fighting near Peiping: Japa-
nese and Chinese Clash," on page 1s of the issue of July 9th.
9

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.98)
This was in part as follows :
The Chinese lay the blame for the situation on the widespread
Japanese field exorcises which have been proceeding during the last few
days. The trouble seems to have started when Chinese troops mistook
a sham attack on Marco Polo Bridge near Wanping for a real one.
GENERAL SUNG CHE-YUAN RETURNS TO TIENTSIN
On July 13th General Sung Che-yuan, chairman of the
Hopei-Chahar Political Council, returned to Tientsin from the
country resort where he had been staying, and took up the nego-
tiations on the spot with Lieutenant-General Katsuki, newly-ap-
pointed commander of the Tientsin garrison in place o
General Tashiro, who had been confined to bed, owing to serious
illness, for over a month.
However, the prevailing état d'esprit of the 29th Army was
still a cause of anxiety ; minor clashes were occurring as frequently
as before, although the Japanese authorities were exercising the
greatest patience, instructing their men not to retaliate for the
wrongs done by Chinese soldiers save in unavoidable cases.
Despite the Chinese promise to lift martial law, release the
Japanese held in detention, and restore communications be-
tween Peiping and Tientsin, the city of Peiping on the morning
of July 1zth was plastered with anti-Japanese posters and seethed
with demonstrations against Japan. On the same day, 4
Japanese motor lorries were fired upon near Yungtingmen;
the next day I soldier of a cavalry unit was shot to death
while passing south of Nanyuan ; on the 16th a detachment on
its way to Tungchow was fired upon by a band of Chinese police,
who had to be disarmed; on the r9th the Chinese fired on
the guards at Lukouchiao, severely wounding the commanding
officer, Captain Yamazaki.
In the meanwhile, anti-Japanese movements were spreading
rapidly in other parts of China. New anti-Japanese organiza
tions were being formed in the city of Nanking, such as the
"Fight-Enemy-Fight-Japan Society;" and at Canton the
authorities issued a circular telegram pressing the Central Go-
vernment to dispatch more troops to North China.
NANKING REFUSES TO RECOGNIZE ANY LOCAL
SETTIEMENT
On July 12th Mr. S. Hidaka, counsellor of the Japanese Em-
I0

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
bassy at Nanking, seeing that matters were on a fair way to a
settlement in North China, visited the Minister of Foreign Affairs,
Mr. Wang Ching-hui, and urged that the Nanking Government
not obstruct the execution of the settlement. He reiterated
this advice 2 days later to another Chinese official, but Nanking
refused to listen, declaring that it would not recognize any local
arrangement and issued orders for the mobilization of more
troops. Gravely concerned over the growing tension caused by
this attitude, which only served to delay the execution of the
agreement and might lead to serious consequences on the spot,
the Japanese Government decided formally to approach the
Nanking authorities.
Late in the night of July 17th Mr. Hidaka again called on
the Chinese Foreign Minister and handed him a memorandum
in which the Japanese Government urged the Nanking
Government not to interfere with the execution of the agreement
arrived at en the spot and to suspend immediately all military
movements against Japan. The Chinese Foreign Minister told
Mr. Hidaka that be would be able to reply by Monday, July 19th.
The next day, July 18th, at r:oo p.m. in pursuance of the agre-
ed terms, General Sung Che-yuan expressed to General Katsuki
his regrets concerning the Lukouchiao incident. The first step
seemed thus to have been taken toward a settlement of the
affair.
However, the attitude of the officers and men of the 37th
Division remained still uncertain. It would doubtless be in-
fluenced to a great extent by whether or not Nanking would
encourage them to resist a settlement.
CHLANG KAI-SHEK DEFINES CHINA'S + POINTS
Meanwhile, on the same day General Chiang Kai-shek
made a lengthy statement to educational and technical leaders
of China then gathered at Kuling, setting forth " the minimum
conditions acceprable to China for the settlement of the North
China crisis."
The conditions were (i) that any kind of settlement must
not infringe upon the territorial and sovereign rights of China;
(2) that the status of the Hopei-Chahar Political Council is fixed
by the Central Government of China and there must not be
II

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.97)
POINTS OF DIFFERENCE
NO INFRINGEMENT ON
SUPPRESSION
SOVEREIGN
CF
RiGHTS
CCMMUNISTS
NO 'LLEGAL ALTERATION
CONTIOL OF ANTI-
OFTHE CHSHAR-HOPEI
JAPANESE ORGANIZATIONS
POLITICAL COUNCIL
'NO REMOVAL OF
ELIMINATJON OF PERSONS
OFFICIALS
IMPEDING GOOD FELATA
NO RESTRICTION LUPON
REMOAL OF THE
THE POSITIONS OF THE
37"DIVISION
29ARMY
The Nortb Cima Daily Nons, July 26]
[Shanghai
any alterations made; (3) that the Central Government w
not agree to the removal of those local otlicials it has appointed,
such as the Chairman of the Hopei-Chahar Political Council;
and (4) that the Central Government will not allow any restric
tions to be placed upon the disposition of the 29th Army.
"All that," the American owned In Ar
commented editorially, "is rhetoric and r from the real
of the present situation as the Lytton Report's recommendations
were from the reality of the Manchurian situation."
NANKING'S REPLY EVADES THE ISSUE
Thus it was with considerable anxiety that the Chinese tep
was awaited in Tokyo.
At 2:30 p.m., July 19th, Mr. Tung Tao-ning, chief of the tirs
section of the Asiatic Bureau, by order of the Forcign Minister f
the Nanking Government, called on Mr. Hidaka at the latter's
office and handed him an aide mémoire after reading it aloud.
In this document it was declared that the movements of
Chinese troops were a measure of defense and the following
was submitted :
12

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
(1) The two Governments to agree upon a date for both sides
simultaneously to stop the movements of their troops and also to recall
their armed forces to their original stations.
(2) They should enter into diplomatic negotiations with a view to
reaching an immediate settlement.
(3) The authorization of the Central Government is necessary for
any agreement to be made on the spot concerning any question, even of
a local character.
(4) The Chinese Government is willing to accept any means of
settlement recognized by international law or treaties, such as direct ne-
gotiations, good offices, mediation or arbitration.
Mr. Hidaka, after asking a few questions concerning the
memorandum and expressing his disappointment at its contents,
told Mr. Tung that he would accept it as a reply from Foreign
Minister Wang; but that, if it was not, he would expect to
hear again from Mr. Wang within the day.
In oflicial circles in Tokyo, the Chinese memorandum
brought forth the comments, published in the morning papers
of July zoth, that Nanking's memorandum evaded both points
pui porward in the Japanese memorandum of luly ryth.
The direct cause of the affair, it was recalled, was the firing
on Japanese troups during their night maneuvers by Chinese
ferces of the s7th Division from Lukouchiao aud Lungwang-
miao. For Japan to agree to simultaneous withdrawal, which
would imply partial responsibility of the Japanese, was out of
the question, particularly in view of the fact that, although Japan
had taken immediate steps in order to obtain a speedy settlement,
the agreements subsequently arrived at for the suspension of hosti-
lities and withdrawal of troops were broken by the Chinese,
including even the written understanding made by their repre-
sentatives on July ith. In fact it had not been possible for
these reasons seriously to entertain a similar proposal sub-
mitted by Nanking on July 12th.
As to the contention that the Chinese troops movements
were defensive measures, it was pointed out that this was absurd:
the Japanese decision to send troops to North China was in t-
self caused by the heavy concentration in, and transportation
to, North China of Central Government troops, beginning on
July gth. There were in the Peiping-Tientsin region over
8e,oco men of the 29th Army : more than 25 divisions were
massed along the railway lines leading to these cities and were
13

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
being shifted to the North, some troops being barely one hour's
distance from Peiping. Meanwhile, Japan was manifesting
great restraint, even in face of the peril threatening her natio.
nals and her relatively small garrison in North China. The
Japanese reinforcements were as yet standing by, since only
small contingents had been sent to China from Manchuria, bu
none as yet from Japan.
Furthermore, it was pointed out that the Nanking Govern-
ment had recognized the establishment of the Hopei-Chahar Po.
litical Council, a unique régime wielding wide powers, and h
not interfered heretofore when it entered into local agreements on
its own responsibility. There was no reason for ciaiming at the
present moment that all local agreements must have Nanking's
sanction which thus meant nothing but obstruction of a speedy
settlement.
The attitude of the Nanking Government as revealed
by its reply was extremely disappointing to the Japanese Govern-
ment which had endeavored to enlist Nanking's co-operation to-
ward bringing about an amicable settlement at an carly date.
Already there had been deliberate delay in sending a large
force over the sea (as strategical considerations would have
demanded), because it was hoped that such measures would not
prove absolutely necessary.
A further delay now would be procrastination and b
fraught with increasing danger both to Japanese citizens and 
Japanese troops.
Accordingly on July 19th, at 10:00 p.m., the headquarters
of the Japanese garrison at Tientsin announced that they wou!
be compelled to take the action which they deemed approprite
in coping with the situation on and after July zoth, unless the
Chinese immediately ceased their provocative actions.
14

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.98)
THE SECOND PHASE: CHINA PRECIPITATES
THE CRISIS
NEW PROMISES MADE BY CHINESE GARRISON
The warning issued the previous day by the Tientsin gar-
rison was apparently unheeded, for at 2 : 00 p.m., July zoth, the
Chinese troops at Lukouchiao again opened fire and the Chinese
machine gun unit at Papaoshan began advancing on the Japanese
position. The Japanese, acting on the declaration issued on
the 19th, retorted with field and machine guns and eventually
silenced the Chinese.
Upon representations made by the Japanese commander,
General Sung Che-yuan renewed the pledge that he would
cause the 37th Division under General Feng Chi-an stationed
at Yamenkou and Papaoshan to be withdrawn toward the rear by
the noen of the 21st and replaced by the Peace Preservation Corps
under General Shih Yu-san. He further made it known that
he would on his own responsibility see to it that the incident
was localized and the Japanese residents duly protected. The
Japanese commander resolved to abstain from positive actions
and wait to see if he (General Sung) would live up to his word.
On the other hand the Nanking Government, which ap-
parently places great faith in its aerial force, had assembled nearly
350 planes at Loyang and Hsuchou, and a portion of this force
was starting joint operations with the Chinese troops in Hopei.
A squad of so planes forming part of their reserve aerial force
was also ordered to stand by.
Preparations were being pushed forward on July 2ist. At
11 : co a.m. Chiang Kai-shek summoned the Army leaders to his
residence in the Military School and discussed ways and
means to provide against the possibility of an all-round encount-
er with japan, the distribution of personnel connected with
the direction of troops in Middle, South and North China, and
General Staff affairs.
As to the disposition of the Chinese troops in the field of
IS

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.98)
immediate concern to the Japanese, the 29th Army near Yamen
kou had evacuated their quarters but not those at and near Lukou.
chiao, thus defaulting on their agreement. As a result of furth
parley, General Sung promised to evacaute his troops by 8:0o .
m., and on July zand the troops under Genreal Feng Chi-
stationed within the walls of Peiping began to withdraw in te
direction of Paoting.
However, a minor event again set back the favorable tread
of affairs on July 23rd, when at Chiang Kai-shck's commanl
General Hsiung Pin, assistan: chief of the Chinese Gere
Staff, arrived by plane at Paoting from Nanking, then made
way to Peiping which he reached toward dusk. This wa: de
known to the Chinese troops, who interpreted the arrival o su
an important messenger as an encouragement to resist. Conir
to General Sung's agreement, the main body of the th Divi
was still staying at Siyuan; so the Peace Preservation Co
under General Shih Yu-san built military positions at Papaos
on July 24th. The Chinese forces at Peiping vere still showing
sign of evacuating and would not move even a single trin n
the pretext that there was not sutlicient rolling stock, whil
27th Regiment under Chao Teng-chang attached to the :
Division entered Peiping in flagrant violation of their 
The Japanese authorities had placed full faith in Gentm
Sung Che-yuan and Chang Tsu-chung to do their urmos
striving to settle the matter peacefully and locally. On la
zsth, in reply to a question asked by Japanese newspapermm,
Commander Katsuki of the Tientsin garrison even went sot
to tell them confidentially that he believed there would be
necessity for his troops to fight the z9th Army.
However, two incidents occurred which dashed these b
to the ground.
The Japanese military telephone line between Peipi
Tientsin had been repeatedly cut by the Chinese om abo
19th. On July 2sth it was found that the line had been s
again near Langfang, a small railway station midway bea
the two cities.
A Japanese unit was sent to make the necessary repur
the understanding of General Chang Tsu-chung, comm
of the 38th Division.
At 4: 20 p.m. a detachment of engineers, under the p:
16

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.99)
tion of a company of soldiers, arrived at Langfang, where they
found the railway station occupied by a detachment of soldiers
belonging to the 38th Division. After some parleying, the Japa-
nese secured the latter's consent to enter the station. They
were further delayed by difficulty in obtaining lodgings for the
night from the Public Safety Bureau. However, the work was
finally completed and around 11:0o p.m., with their rifles stacked,
the men were taking supper within the station compound.
The Langfang station presented a scene of perfect peace. There
were absolutely no indications that within a few minutes it
would be converted into a scene of fierce battle between the Chi-
nese and Japanese forces.
At 11:1o the Chinese launched their attack against the Japan-
ese. Rifles, hand grenades, and machine guns were brought into
play. The Japanese, taken by surprise, at once picked up their
arms and fired back in the darkness.
Near y a full regiment of Tsui Chen-hui's infantry was
garrisoned at a point north of Langfang, and these troops,
upon hearing the sound of the firing, entered the fray
with trench mortars. The Japanese, outnumbered by the Chi-
ritse, asked for reinforcements. These could not be rushed up
soon enough to rescue the besieged men. So on the next morning
at z:oo o'clock a number of planes flew to the scene and bombed
the Chinese barracks, thus saving the Japanese from annihilation.
The Chinese troops were finally driven away in the direction of
Huangtsun, but the pursuit was not pushed further.
GENERAL KATSUKI DELIVERS A STRONG NOTE
This affray showed that it was impossible to rely on the
pledges made by the Chinese, whose troops and officers were
getting out of hand, and the hesitation of their leaders had to be
overcome. So General Katsuki decided to send a formal note,
a virtual ultimatum, to General Sung, embodying the points
already accepted. This note was delivered at s:so p. m. by Col.
T. Matsui at Peiping. General Katsuki pointed out that the
fresh outbreak at Langfang had been started by lawless Chinese
firing on the Japanese unit sent there to protect communications.
Voicing regret at the occurrence of another armed clash, he
blamed it entirely on the failure of the 29th Army to carry out
17

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.99)
the terms of the agreement concluded with the Japanese authori.
ties and also on that army's maintenance of a provocative attitude.
If the 29th Army authorities still intend to prevent aggra-
vation of the situation, he demanded that they demonstrate it
by promptly effecting complete evacaution of the entire Peiping
area by the 37th Division.
The note specified that the troops of the 37th Division near
Lukouchiao and Papaoshan be withdrawn " by noon tomorrow"
to Changsintien, south of Lukouchiao, on the Peiping-Hankow
Railway; that all troops of the same division immediately leave
the walled city of Peiping, and that these troops, together with
those of the 37th Division stationed at Siyuan, a short distance
northwest of Peiping, be moved from the area north of the
Peiping-Hankow Railway to the west bank of the Yungting
River by Wednesday noon, July 28th.
Specifying further that all these troops must be withdrawn
promptly to the Paoting area, go miles south of Peiping on the
Peiping-Hankow Railway, General Katsuki sternly warned tha,
should the Chinese fail to carry out the demand, the Japa-
nese Army would be " compelled to conclude that the z9th Army's
authorities lack sincerity and to take any action it may deem ap-
propriate." In that event the z9th Army must take full re-
ponsibility for anything that might happen.
In the wake of the Langfang affair, another proof of Chinese
animosity and treachery occurred a few hours later, at 6:eo o'clock
in the afternoon. In view of the disquicting situation in Peiping.
it had been decided that a detachment of the forces stationed
Fengtai should be sent to Peiping, with the object of providin:
better protection for the Japanese residents. An understanding h
already been reached with the Chinese garrison concerning id
matter and these soldiers, riding in a number of trucks, arrived
at 4:0o p. m. at Kuanganmen, one of the wall gates of Peiping, on
their way to the Japanese barracks. The Chinese soldiers on
guard there, however, would not unlock the gates. At 6:oo o'clock.
parleying was still in progress. Lt.-Col. Sakurai, adviser to the
29th Army, came to the spot, accompanied by newspapermen.
At 7:35 p. m. the gates were partially opened and the Japanese
began to enter the city.
Some explanation about town gates in China must be given
to make the subsequent events clear. The town wall in China,
18

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.98)
as a rule, is a double wall
where a passage is provided,
and there are an outer and
WALL
an inner gates, as shown in
the accompanying sketch.
CUTER
GATE
To enter the town, both
WALL
gates must be negotiated.
COLST
They may be in line or
WALL
WALL
at right angles to each
other.
AVER
GATE
As the file of trucks
DCD
lumbered through the heavy
gates, resentful Chinese
soldiers watched from atep the walls and elsewhere. Five,
ten, twenty trucks had rumbled by, waen sud denly the inner
portals were swung to. The first of the trapped trucks had
not even stopped before a hail of bullets was directed on it.
The men on the following trucks jumped from the vehicles,
as the outer gate shut behind them. Machine guns spat
death, hand grenades exploded. The soldiers on the trucks
stranded outside the city and those who had already gone through,
hesitated, bewildered, then spread to cover and began returming
the fire which runed from the walls. The trapped men made a
desperate ethort to escape, forced open a gme and rejoined their
comrades, leaving 3 dead behind them. Under the cover of
darkness two newspapermen and a newsree man were carried
to safety, seriously wounded.
JAPAN DECIDES TO ORDER OUT REINFORCEMENTS
The frequent occutrence of treacherous action such as that
just cited—so indic ative of the aggressive attitude of the Chinese—
was not only disquieting to the Japanese at the front but also
showed the danger to public opinion in Japan. The Goverm-
ment, keenly alive to the situation as one calling for defensive
action to an increasing extent, held a Cabinet mecting at 1:30
p. m. on the z-th and as a result presented for Imperial sanction
an order mobilizing reinforcements to be sent to China. It
issued the same day, through the Chief Secretary, an important
declaration stating its position.
19

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.99)
Voicing Japan's grave concern over the maintenance of
peace and order in North China, the statement pointed out thar
the consistent policy of anti-Japanism pursued by the Chinese
side had repeatedly menaced peace in North China.
It went on to say that in accordance with its policy not to
aggravate the North China situation and to seek a local settlement
of the affair for the sake of peace in East Asia, Japan had been(
making every effort to dispose of the situation peacefully.
Japan had submitted very lenient demands to the authorities!
of the Hopei-Chahar Political Council and, though they had
recognized them at the time, they had failed to show good faith
in carrying out the conditions. On the other hand the Japanese
Government had called the attention of the Nanking Government
on July 17th to the necessity of immediately suspending provoca-
tive speech and actions and of not obstructing the efforts fora
local settlement of the issue. Disregarding the actual conditions,
the Nanking Government did not comply with the Japanese
Government's contentions. Continues the statement :
On the contrary, the Nanking Government strengthened its
preparations for war, thus incrcasing unrest. While Japan was making
efforts towards a peaceful solution of the situation with patience and
self-restraint, the Chinese side perpetrated acts which can only render
these efforts meaningless. The Chinese troops illegally fired on the
Japanese at Langfang on July z6th and on the same evening the Chinesc
side committed unwarranted violence at Kuanganmen.
These two cases constitute armed obstruction on the part of the
Chinese troops of the original duties of the Japanese North China garri-
son which are to safeguard the communication lines between Peiping
and Tientsin and to protect Japanese nationals resident in the area.
Thus the Japanese Army has been forced to take defensive actions
necessary for the execution of its duties and also for the securing of the
carrying out of the terms of the agreement concluded between Japan
and the Hopei-Chahar Political Council. The aim of the Japanese
Government is to eradicate the fundamental causes for the outbreak of
untoward incidents like the present one. Japan does not entertain
enmity toward the Chinese people. Neither has Japan any territorial
designs. It goes without saying that Japan will make every effort to
protect the vested rights and interests of the forcign Powers in China.
Although the situation has come to such a pass, Japan, whose
mission is to secure peace in East Asia, desires that the Chinese side will
reflect on its stand by minimizing the situation to the smallest possible
extent and by co-operating toward immediate and amicable settlement
of the incident.
20

=== Page 69 === (confidence 1.00)
NANKING BELATEDLY APPROVES THE LOCAL
TERMS OF SETTLEMENT
However, in Nanking the Foreign Ministry issued on the
ht of the 27th, at 10: 30 o'clock, a statement which de-
red in part that the Japanese had worked out with the Chinese
cal authorities an emergency form of settlement to which the
ntral Government, finding it not so divergent from its establi-
ed policy, had been generous enough to take no exception.
nfortunately this last minute approval of the local settlement
hich Nanking had up to then obstructed, came too late.
he Chinese Government's previous attitude had already borne
fruit. Had the Chinese Govemment been willing from the
tset to consider reaching an agreement on the spot, as the
panese authorities had striven to do, the whole affair would
ave been localized and, as such, would have blown over
without engendering today's crisis.
But the commander on the spot, responsible for the safety
of 18,000 Japanese civilians, faced a most serious situation which
Nanking's belated words could not alleviate. The restlessness
of the 37th Division had spread to General Chang Tsu-jung's
forces, the 28th Division. Not only were the Chinese troops
not preparing to execute the promised withdrawal, but on the
ontrary some were strengthening their positions and preparing
to attack. The situation was becoming more and more serious.
It demanded swift and drastic action. Only the forcible evic-
tion of the 2gth Army could now solve matters. During the
night of July 27th to 28th General Katsuki informed General
Feng and the Mayor of Peiping of his decision. At s a. m.,
July 28th, the Japanese troops began their mirch toward the
Chinese lines.
General Katsuki, in a statement published at that time,
declared that what had brought about the crisis was the serious
and unpardonable breach of faith committed by China in rushing
orthward a formidable number of Central Army troops in out-
right violation of the Ho-Umezu Agreement and in steadily
preparing for action against the Japanese.
In consequence peace and order in North China had now
heen completely disrupted and the lives and property of the
Japanese residents were exposed to imminent danger. The
aintenance of peace and order in North China was a matter of
21

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
serious concern to both Japan and Manchoukuo, but every mear
for a peaceful settlement of the present complications had nor
been exhausted.
He stressed the fact that the punitive action to be under
taken was aimed solely at those Chinese forces which had bee:
persistently challenging the Japanese troops and that it was in n
way directed towards the 1oo million Chinese population i
North China. The speedy restoration of peace and order i
North China was desired in the hope of promoting the welfar
of the people in this part of China. He also made it clear that th
Japanese troops had no intention of using force inside the walle
city of Peiping unless the Chinese troops remaining there shoul
try to challenge them. And he promised, recognizing the rigat
and interests of foreign nationals in China, to try his best to accon
adequate protection to their lives and property. He also too:
this opportunity to aflirm that the Japanese Army entertainc
absolutely no territorial designs on North China.
Despite a prevailing heavy rain and storm, the Japan's
air force was called out and early that same morning the Chines
barracks at Siyuan were bombed. The land forces went on
posing of the Chinese troops at Shanhsuchen, Chinghoche
Nanyuan, Matsun, Yamenkou, Papaoshan, and Lukouchiaos
that by 4: 00 p.m. in the afternoon of the 29th all of the Chin
ese troops had been expelled from Peiping.
The position of General Sung Che-yuan, commander
the 29th Army, and General Chin Teh-chun, mayor of th
city of Peiping, had become so untenable that with General Fen.
Chi-an, commander of the 37th Division, they secretly fled
Paoting on July 28th.
Pursuing their mopping up operations, the main Japanest
force occupied a strategic point to the south of Peiping, ne
Changsintien, on the zoth'; to the north the Suzuki unit sue
cessfully disarmed the Chinese forces at Peiyuan.
THE 29TH ARMY ATTACKS TIENTSIN
But whilst the Japanese forces were busy near the ancien
capital, new and alarming developments had cropped 
Tientsin. This densely populated city, an internationa
center of business, is built on the banks of the White River,
22

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.97)
he Peiho. On its left bank, from east to west, lie the ex-
German Concession, taken over by the Chinese and called the
First Special District; the British Concession; the French Conces-
sion, which commands the International Bridge, sole way of
rossing from the Concessions' quarter to the other part of
he city; then the Japanese Concession and the native city.
From this part another bridge crosses the river. On the right
ank, facing the British and French Concessions are the ex-Bel-
gian and Russian Concessions (Third and Second Special Dis-
ricts), and facing the Japanese Concession is the Italian Conces-
sion, bordered by the ex-Austrian Concession. Beyond runs the
railway line. The principal station, the East Staton, lies straight
ahead of the International Bridge.
M Tientsin Municipal
TIENTSIN
CAST STATION
Oice
CHINESE
VITALIAN
QUARTER
CONCES-
K -Kuoninang Head-
S
SION
FORMER
quarters
RLSSIAN
JAPANESE FRENCH
P Thentsin Peace Pre-
CONCESS-CO NCESS
CONCESSION
servation Corps
ION
ION
FORMER
GRITISH
BELGIAN
S lapanese police sta-
CONCESSION
CONCESS
ION
FORMER
G-- Japanese garrison
GERMAN
Pints where the
CONCESSION
Chinese a tempted
invasion and attack
口
NANKAI
WY'VERSITY
In the Notes est tanged between China and Japan in 1902
with regard to the ro rocession of Tientsin, it is set forth that
the Chinese Government shall not move or staton its troops
within 2o Chinese miles of the foreign garrisons stationed in
Tientsin, but of this treaty obligation the Chinese troops were
taking no heed.
At z:co o'clock in the morning of July 29th, soldiers of the
29th Army with the aid of the Chinese Peace Preservation Corps
launched a surprise atack on four important points, the Japanese
barracks, the Concessien, the East Station, and the Japanese
field. In the dark from the north and the west Chinese soldiers
silently crept toward the Concession. Another force advanced
23

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
from the south along the road leading to the Japanese barracl
In these remained only a single company of artillery. In t
concession another company of infantry was on duty. Tl
Chinese had approached to within 3o yards of the artillery dep
when the sentries discovered them. The alarm was raised; g:
were hurriedly trained on the advancing mass, and shrapnel w
fired point blank. At the concession gate a handful of police
men held the enemy at bay. At the acrodrome the fire of th
sentries checked the surging waves of Chinese soldiers. Bu
they soon surrounded the field, cutting it off from the ciy
And at the East Station a small group of Japanese soldies
surprised by the attack, fell back but soon regained cont
They too, however, were cut off from the city, but despera
clung to their positions.
PLANES TO THE RUSCUE
At the same time spear- hend thrusts were being made 
Langfang and other points of the Peiping-Tientsin Railway n
order to sever the Japanese communication lines.
Trench mortars and small artillery had come into action
shells began to fall in the foreign concessions. Japanese re
forcements were hurriedly summoned and by severe hand-to-ha
fighting the Chinese were kept at ba. Irme surroun
flying-lield planes happily could leave and land: they ree 
noitered, dropping reports of the situation. Fresh Chine
troops were seen assembling at their rallying phace in the Chine
city, the municipal office, the Peace Preservation Corps Hea
quarters, and the Nankai University buildings. The pressu
was becoming unbearable.
So at 2:30 p.m. planes were ordered out to bomb the Chine:
headquarters. By this time the civilian population in the tig!
ing area had fled and the danger of causing civilian casualtie
was small. The Japanese planes picked their objectives and 
an efficient job on the big buildings, but spared the smi!
civilian houses.
By 7:00 p.m. the peril had been practically warded off. Bu:
under the cover of night the Chinese reassembled. On the morn-
ing of July zoth Japanese planes were again sent out. Hampered
by the impossibility of sending troops through the foreign con-
24

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.98)
cessions and thus using the International Bridge which springs
from the French Concession, the Japanese built a pontoon bridge
across the river.
At noon the Japanese had the situation in hand, but mean-
while were slowly sustaining heavy losses while driving the
Chinese away from the city. Tientsin had escaped the horrors of
a fate which even then was befalling a nearby city, Tungchow.
THE TUNGCHOW MASSACRE
The walled city of Tungchow is situated 6 miles east of
Peiping on the limit of the demilitalized zone established by the
Tangku agreement in 1932. It is the principal city of that area
and the seat of the East Hopei Administration. In accordance
with the provisions of the Tankgu truce agreement no regular
Chinese troops were to be stationed in East Hopei, and Yin
Ju-keng, head of the Administration, had organized a Peace
Preservation Corps, a sort of military police armed with rifles
and light machine guns.
In the bevinning lawless clements had overrun the country
and Japanese troops had been actively co-operating with the Peace
Preservation Corps to reestablish order, but of late things had
quictened down. In Tungchow itself a Japanese garrison had
been stationed. In the city were garrisoned p,eee Peace Preser-
vstion troops. The Lmuse and Korean population at the end
of June amounted to 1s: Japanese and 187 Koreans, and during
the disturbances shot so refugees came from Peiping. Army
troops or the z9th independent brigade of the z9th Army had
been allowed to stay in the outskirts of the city.
As the situation in North China became surous and the
troops of the Japanese garrison were sent out to the Peiping area,
agitation began to sprtnd among the Chinese soldiers, who at-
tempted to gain the aid of the Peace Preservation troops; and
as matters became worse, otlicers from the headquarters of the
37th Division secretly came to Tungchow to incite them to join
in a widespread movement against the Japanese. The attitude
of the regulars became more and more bellicose, and on the 27th
they were disarmed with the help of the Peace Preservation Corps.
Quiet apparently returned.
But suddenly at about 3:o0 a.m., July 29th, just at the time the
25

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
Chinese were attacking the Japanese Concession in Tientsin and
trying to sever the Peiping-Tientsin Railway line, 2,ooo men of
the 29th Army who had covertly gathered around Tungchow.
helped by a part of the Peace Preservation Corps, launched a
surprise assault on the principal Japanese buildings of Tungchow,
the Japanese garrison, the Japanese Army's special service mission
and the Kinsuiro, a Japanese managed hotel. In this attack they
were joined by some 1,ooe men of the Peace Preservation Corps,
whom they had successfully instigated to join the raid. All the
attacks were obviously premeditated and carried out in accordance
with carefully laid plans.
Those who attacked the garrison killed a sentinel before he
had time to sound an alarm, but the Japanese troops, then only
120 strong, promptly took up their positions to defend the bir
racks as soon as they realized an attack was being made. The
Chinese fired intensively from the southern side of the barracks.
The Japanese returned the fire and held out until dawn, when the
Chinese opened fire with machine guns and trench mortars from
the top of the town wall.
Fire broke out in the barracks when tins of gasoline and
cases of munitions loaded on 1s trucks ready to leave for Peiping
were hit during the bombardment. The munitions cases begn
to explode one by one, and no Chinese dared to approach me
barracks as the splinters of the cases flew in all directions w
terrific force.
As soon as news of the attack reached Peiping, orders were
sent for the rescue of the besieged. But the Japanese troons
were rounding up the remnants of the 37th Division near Peipin
while others were hurrying towards Tientsin.
About 2:00 o'clock Friday afternoon, July zoth, a Japant.
warplane arrived to help the Japanese. The Chinese attack su
sequently lessened in intensity, but the fire at the barracks cou
not be brought under control. On July 3ist, despite r.
Japanese planes flew over the scene and bombed the Chine.
who abandoned the seige and retreated to the north.
It was not until 4:20 p.m. of the same day that a ur:
from the Kawabé detachment, which had been fighting tote
south of Peiping, could arrive on the spot. It immedintely to
possession of five gates in the wall and then quickly moppedu
the Chinese soldiers. Calm again prevailed.
26

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
When the Japanese troops arrived, they found that all Japa-
nese homes not only had been ransacked, but also their occupants
tortured and killed. And while they were masters of the city,
the Chinese troops had also thoroughly looted the Chinese houses,
restaurants, etc.
The massacre of the Japanese by the Chinese troops seems to
have been prepared carefully, and all available evidence tends
to indicate that they had ascertained beforehand the homes of
Japanese residents. As soon as the attack started, small groups
of soldiers broke into every Japanese residence, butchering the
occupants with rifles and swords and making a thorough search,
even tearing up the floors and ceilings.
Panic-stricken children were seized and brutally killed by
having their heads twisted off or being beaten or hurled to the
ground. All the women who met death were shot while offering
desperate resistance, and their bodies were mutilated and mangled
with swords.
An otficial report states that the maid servants of the Kinsuiro
were strung together by wire pierced through their noses or throats
and taken to be shot; and after being subjected to unspeakable
outrages, their bodies were thrown into a lotus pond near the
East Gate.
It was ascertained on August 4th that 77 Japanese and 18
Koreans, who had fled to the Japanese barracks, were safe.
One hundred and fifty bodies had been recovered by that date.
Later a few survivors, who had been given refuge by Chinese
friends or servants, were discovered. The toll of civilian men,
women and children tortured and killed exceeded 200.
27

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.99)
Chinese were attacking the Japanese Concession in Tientsin and
trying to sever the Peiping-Tientsin Railway line, 2,oo0 men of
the z9th Army who had covertly gathered around Tungchow,
helped by a part of the Peace Preservation Corps, launched a
surprise assault on the principal Japanese buildings of Tungchow,
the Japanese garrison, the Japanese Army's special service mission
and the Kinsuiro, a Japanese managed hotel. In this attack they
were joined by some 1,ooo men of the Peace Preservation Corps,
whom they had successfully instigated to join the raid. All the
attacks were obviously premeditated and carried out in accordance
with carefully laid plans.
Those who attacked the garrison kill: ntinel before he
had time to sound an alarm, but the'  troops, then only
120 strong, promptly took up thei: p tons to defend the bar-
racks as soon as they realized an tack was being made. The
Chinese fired intensively from the southern side of the barracks.
The Japanese returned the fire and held out until dawn, when the
Chinese opened fire with machine guns and trench mortars from
the top of the town wall.
Fire broke out in the barracks when tins of gasoline and
cases of munitions loaded on 1s trucks ready to leave for Peiping
were hit during the bombardment. The munitions cases began
to explode one by one, and no Chinese dared to approach the
barracks as the splinters of the cases flew in all directions with
terrific force.
As soon as news of the attack reached Peiping, orders were
sent for the rescue of the besieged. But the Japanese troops
were rounding up the remnants of the 37th Division near Peiping,
while others were hurrying towards Tientsin.
About 2:oo o'clock Friday afternoon, July zoth, a Japanese
warplane arrived to help the Japanese. The Chinese attack sub-
sequently lessened in intensity, but the fire at the barracks could
not be brought under control. On July 31st, despite rain,
Japanese planes flew over the scene and bombed the Chinese,
who abandoned the seige and retreated to the north.
It was not until 4:2o p.m. of the same day that a unit
from the Kawabé detachment, which had been fighting to the
south of Peiping, could arrive on the spot. It immediately took
possession of five gates in the wall and then quickly mopped up
the Chinese soldiers. Calm again prevailed.
26

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
When the Japanese troops arrived, they found that all Japa-
nese homes not only had been ransacked, but also their occupants
tortured and killed. And while they were masters of the city,
the Chinese troops had also thoroughly looted the Chinese houses,
restaurants, ctc.
The massacre of the Japanese by the Chinese troops seems to
have been prepared carefully, and all available evidence tends
to indicate that they had ascertained beforehand the homes of
Japanese residents. As soon as the attack started, small groups
of soldiers broke into every Japanese residence, butchering the
occupants with rifles and swords and making a thorough search,
even tearing up the tloors and ceilings.
Panic-stricken children were seized and brutally killed by
having their heads twisted off or being beaten or hurled to the
ground. All the women who met death were shot wi le offering
desperate resistance, and their bodies were mutilated and mangled
with swords.
An otlicial report states that the maid servants of the Kinsuiro
were strung together by wire pierced through their noses or throats
and taken to be shot; and after being subjected to unspeakable
outrages, their bodies were thrown into a lotus pond near the
Last Gate.
It was ascertained on August ath that 77 Japse and s8
Koreans, who had hed to the Japanese barracks, were safe.
One hundred and fifty bodies had been recovered by that date.
Later a few survivors, who had been given refuge by Chinese
friends or servants, were discovered. The toll of cilian men,
women and children tortured and killed excceded se.
27

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
THE PROBLEM OF NORTH CHINA
WHAT FRUSTRATED A SPEEDY SETTLEMENT
Having followed the sequence of events in North China,
it may be well to consider the causes of the present situation and
see what hope can be held for the future.
As to the initial incident, the Lukouchiao affair, it has been
established that the firing, whether accidental or not, began on
the Chinese side. Both the Manchester Guardian and the Jour-
nal de Genève, in their leading articles of July 19th and July
29th respectively, accept this fact as true.
Why then has the situation become aggravated to the point
it has reached today in spite of Japan's earnest efforts to localize
the incident and speedily attain a peaceful settlement? Both in
Tokyo and on the spot moderation and restraint were exercised
to the utmost. Troop embarkment was delayed to the limit ;
the most lenient terms of settlement were proferred in order to ob-
tain a speedy solution; and orders were given to the troops
not to retaliate against provocation nor return fire, in order to
avoid causing new incidents during the withdrawal of the
Chinese troops to their agreed positions. In spite of this, new
clashes occurred, warlike operations spread, Japanese men,
women and children were massacred, and Chinese and Japanese
forces began preparations for a major struggle. Why?
Concerning the recurrence of clashes, it is to be deplored
that the leaders of the 29th Army lacked the authority to assure
that their men observed the terms of the agreement made with
the Japanese. It is not certain whether this was due to the ab-
sence of discipline on the part of the Chinese troops or to the
fact that the ranks deliberately ignored orders from their super-
iors. But since the Chinese soldiers are very apt to turn ag-
gressivein the presence of a force numerically inferior, it is as likely
as not that the ranks were responsible for the recent occurrence.
As an example, it may be mentioned that when a Japanese in-
fantry force was passing through the neighborhood of Matsun
to the south of Peiping on the 23rd, and again, when a Japanese
28

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
cavalry force was procceding through Tuanho village on the
following day, they were attacked by Chinese soldiers and suffered
losses of some men. In each of these instances the attack was
made on the small force guarding the rear after the passage of
the main body, damage incurred by the Japanese being con-
siderable each time. The occurrences at Langfang and Kuan-
ganmen were of the same complexion.
The constant anti-Japanese agitation to which the Chinese
troops were subjected may also be given as a reason for such an
aggressive attitude. It is said that even in peace times the
Chinese soldiers at drill keep step to the words, "Ta-tao Jih-
pen," or "Down with Japan," instead of one, two, three,
four. Can it be wondered that the soldiers, trained in such a
fashion, should assume aggressive attitude upon the slightest
pretext?
HEAVY TROOP MOVEMENTS RASHLY ORDERED
BY NANKING
Secondly, the attitude taken by the Nanking Government
must also be said to have considerably embarrassed the position
of the leaders of the z9th Army. When the Lukonchiao affair
occurred, the Nanking Government telegraphed the a9th Army,
advising it to take any, and if necessary forcible measures
against the Japanese. Immediately after the outbreak of the
trouble the Nanking Government and Army leaders met in con-
ference to discuss the situation. Was the incident premediated
by Japan? Should Japan be fought? Either misdirected by re-
ports from the Chinese sources on the spot or prompted by some
ulterior motives, the conclusion was reached that Japan had
planned the whole affair. Steps should be taken to meet this
situation. It is reported that General Ho Ying-chin, Chief of
Staff and General Cheng Chien, vice-Chief of Staff, soldiers of
approved experience and knowledge, definitely recommended
Chiang Kai-shek to take a course of moderation as the only way
of averting the risk of jeopardizing the whole organization of the
Chinese Army. Chiang Kai-shek was disposed to temporize as
he shared the views of his two chief military advisers. Yet
his repeated pledge to fight a foe on Chinese soil had to be
fulfilled. The Blue Shirts and the Communists won the day.
29

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
So the Central Government, as early as July 9th, issued an
order for the northward movement of 4 army divisions under
its command. The air force was mobilized and ordered to
stand by. Prompt action, however, to be valued from the
strategic point of view, may precipitate conflict, or at least
aggravate a situation when it is unwarranted. It is hardly
understandable that so great an aggregation of armed men
should be moved immediately after a minor clash. It means
either provocation or hasty judgment.
It will be remembered that meanwhile in Japan a Cabinet
meeting had been, as mentioned above, hurriedly called on July
11th when the report of the Chinese troop and air force move-
ments had been known and the decision had been made to take
all necessary measures for dispatching military forces to North
China. Actual mobilization was, however, deferred several days,
because the attempts at a local settlement might prove successful
and thus the actual dispatch of troops become unnecessary.
These data, although they may appear immaterial to a
cursory observer, are in reality very important for a knowledge of
the real facts.
Since then, movements had steadily continued. Cent-
ral Army troops had been approaching North China along the
Peiping-Hankow Railway and on July zand entered Hopci
Province. The strength of the army in Hopei was estimated to
be about 70,ooo on July 23rd. These troops were later reported
to have started advancing with the forces under General Wan
Fu-lin and General Feng Chan-hai, reportedly 30,oco strong,
both stationed around Liangsiang, 10 miles south of Lukouchiao.
The total number of Chinese troops concentrated near Chang-
chow approached 130,000. In addition, more than s0,000 were
stationcd near Hsuchow on the Tientsin-Pukow Railway. There
was every evidence that the Central Army had entered the suburbs
of Tsinan, and units of the Nanking Military Academy, one of
the crack regiments of the Central Army, were reported to have
been mobilized. Although no Chinese warplanes have partici-
pated so far, preparations for aerial fighting were being rushed.
However, some Nanking leaders were seriously concerned
over the sending of a huge army to the North. Dr. H. H. Kung,
Finance Minister of the Nanking Government, has been so quoted
here for instance. Dr. Kung attended the Coronation ceremony
30

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
of King George VI as the representative of his Government and
during his stay in London received the news of the outbreak of
the North China incident. He immediately sent urgent telegra-
phic messages to the home Government, advising it to use great
caution in meeting the emergency. Due to his great concern over
China's situation, Dr. Kung also cabled to Nanking on July 27th,
stating that the Furopean Powers, being busily engaged in con-
solidating their own defenses, had no time to divide their at-
tention to the Far Eastern situation and he earnestly advised
the Nanking Administration to make strenuous efforts not to en-
large the possibility of war which would make the solution of the
situation impossible. This was wise counsel. Dr. Kung is
keenly alive to the prevailing situation in Europe and America
and has seemingly found that China's vigorous attitude runs
counter to her real interests. Unfortunately, however, his
advice was not accepted.
NANKING'S REFUSAL TO ACCEPT A LOCAL SETTLEMENT
The stand first taken by Nanking refusing to give any con-
sideration to a local settlement of the affair also had the most
unfortunate results.
It must be recalled that Hopei and Chahar Provinces have
an entirely ditferent political status from the other provinces of
China. Circumstances that led to the establishment of the Hopei-
Chahar Political Council make this clear.
North China, as a region in which a large number of Japanese
live and in which are bound up vast and vital interests, and es-
pecially as a territory contiguous to Manchoukuo, necessarily
occupies a special position. The existence there of a régime pur-
suing openly and actively an anti-Japanese and anti-Manchoukuo-
an policy would bring on constant friction and collision, if not
war itself, which would be intolerable and ruinous for both
Japan and China. The Hopei-Chahar Political Council came into
being as the logical outgrowth of such a condition.
After the Manchurian incident the Nanking Government
dispatched General Ho Ying-chin, War Minister, to Peiping and
established there a branch of the National Military Council.
The object was to relieve the confused situation in North China.
At the same time the Nanking Government concluded the Tang-
31

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
ku Truce Pact with Japan, which was signed by Major-
General Yasutsugu Okamura, vice-chief of staff of the Kwantung
Army, and General Hsiung Pin, vice-chief of the General Staff of
the Nanking Government. Simultaneously, the Peiping Political
Council was established by Nanking to execute the provisions of
the pact. This council was a branch of the Executive Yuan of
Nanking.
The Council co-operated with the Japanese authorities and
achieved satisfactory results in administration. Manchoukuo
and North China lie adjacent to each other, but had no formal
communications and intercourse. Their traffic, communications
and trade were restored to normal through co-operation between
this council and Japan. Through railway tratfic was resumed,
the customs services readjusted, rendering trade possible, and
postal connections amicably settled at the same time.
The Peiping Political Council also has settled questions
concerning the assassination of two Chinese journalists of pro-
Japanese leanings on May 2nd and 3rd, 1935, the murder of a
Chinese commander of the Peace Preservation Corps at Luan-
chow, midway between Shanhaikwan and Tangku, and the
wounding of a Japanese gendarme there by paid agents of anti-
Japanese bodies on August 4th of the same year.
Further steps were taken for co-operation among Japan,
Manchoukuo and China and for eliminating undue interference.
Then the council was consolidated into the Hopei-Chahar
Political Council on December 18th, 1935, and General Sung
Che-yuan, commander of the z9th Army and former chairman
of the Chahar Provincial Government, was made the chairman of
the new body.
Unlike those of the other provinces of China the new council
did not operate under the direct supervision of the Central
Government, but was placed underNanking's supervision through
its Political Affairs Committee. As regards the local affairs of
North China, the council entered into direct negotiations with
the Japanese authorities there. It is thus self-evident that the
representation for a settlement of the Lukouchiao incident as a
local affair was within the Council's authority, especially as there
were no political issues involved.
32

=== Page 83 === (confidence 1.00)
NANKING'S EFFORTS TO UPSET THE NORTHERN STATUS
That the Sino-Japanese conflict brings no profit to either
country is understood by those who have the two nations' inter-
est and destiny seriously in mind. Why then should the Nanking
Government have disliked to solve what had happened as a
local affair? The answer may be found in its intention to upset
the present status of North China.
As mentioned before, opinions pro and con were advanced
by Government and party leaders in the important conference
held on July 8th at Nanking. Some urged that the matter should
be solved locally, while others insisted on a solution by arms.
The latter were apparently influenced by China's " unification"
in recent years and their over-estimation of China's strength, and
they believed that the time had now come to change the status of
North China.
This tendency had already been visible for some time, and its
effects were to be seen in different domains, particulary in Sino-
Japanese economic co-operation. For example, plans had ripen-
ed to develop the Lungkwan Iron Mine under Sino-Japanese
joint management and to build a railway between Tientsin and
Shihchiachwang, but sudden interference by the Nanking Govern-
ment wrecked those plans. Nanking also prohibited the es-
tablishment of the Huitung Aviation Corporation under Sino-
Japanese management and the opening of a Japan-Manchoukuo-
China air mail service. In Tientsin an anti-land sales act was
cnforced against Japan, imposing severe punishment on Chinese
who sold or leased their land to Japanese. Open efforts had also
been made to bring about a change in the Hopei-Chahar Council.
During last May and June North China was visited officially
or unofficially by many lieutenants of General Chiang, such as
General Feng Yu-hsiang, vice-president of the Military Affairs
Council, General Chiang Tso-pin, former Ambassador to Tokyo,
General Lu Chung-lin, Mr. Shih Ching-ting and several others
who are well acquainted with the conditions there. The mis-
sion common to them was to relegate General Sung to some
distant post in order to permit some Nanking agent to
occupy the Peiping position and so to reorganize the local
government.
33

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
SYMPATHY MISTAKEN FOR WEAKNESS
The new trend of policy apparent in Nanking seems to have
been the result of misjudgment of Japan's attitude. The
policy of sympathy proclaimed by Foreign Minister Sato; Japan's
friendly attitude during the farcical Sian incident, when Chiang
Kai-shek was kidnapped by his protégé Marshal Chang Hsuch-
liang, former war lord of Manchuria, and later duly returned
to Nanking with the kidnapper on his plane; the opinions
of Japanese diplomats and military officers lauding Nanking's
efforts for unification and reconstruction; all these had led to a
demand for "a new view of China." In Japan criticisms were
even levelled against the policy of the Tokyo Government
on the grounds that it was not fixed on a firm basis. These
signs of sympathy China took for weakness, and this led to the
over-estimation of her own strength. However, far sighted
foreigners had been warning the Chinese of the danger inherent
in this attitude toward Japan and the North China question.
The North China Daily Nens, Shanghai, in an editorial on
May 22nd, under the title of " Unfortunate Tendencies," said :
At a time when Japanese statesmen have clearly shown their desire
to view Chinese affairs by a ' new concept,' it is unfortunate that certain
asperities in argument have lately manifested themselves in Chinese
comment on Sino-Japanese relationships. It should not be forgotten
that in making his pronouncements on the new policy Mr. Naotaké
Sato is by no means assured of freedom from criticism. There is still in
Japan a powerful section of opinion which watches affairs here with
vigilant eyes for signs of intransigence for the better justification of its
belief in "positive action" here. The present ebullitions amon the
students in Peiping must afford considerable satisfaction to Mr. Sato's op-
ponents in Japan.... The danger of overcalling a hand is well-known to
diplomatists as well as to bridge players. The success of General Chiang
Kai-shek in obtaining the recognition of China's equality of status as
the result of his unification of the country, will only be prejudiced if
the occasion is taken to claim for China a measure of military or political
strength unwarranted by the facts. The man who cries before he is out
of the wood is apt to receive a nasty shock. So also is he who bank's too
much on a forbearance which emanates from a sense of strength mistaken
by him for weakness.
Mr. Nathaniel Peffer, an American journalist and student
of international affairs well versed in the China situation, who had
34

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
been studying the most recent course of China's tendencies
during his stay there cautioned China to the same effect in
the June issue of the Asia in an article entitled "China Must
not Fight Now."
Space prevents us from reproducing his article here in toto,
but the introductory note by Mr. Richard J. Walsh, the editor,
who is responsible for having published Mr. Peffer's article,
may be usefully reprinted. It said :
This article, written in Shanghai early in April, is a warning based
upon the author's recent observations in both China and Japan. His
fear is that over-confidence bred by the recent " moral victory " over
Japan may lead China to a reckless use of force which might be disastrous
for her.
That our readers may better judge the bases of this warning we
summarize below the events just before and since the article was writ-
ten:
During March the threat of further Japanese military movements
in Inner Mongolia ceased and Japanese troops were withdrawn from
Suiyuan.
At Peiping a Japanese spokesman said that Japan might soon be
ready to discuss a formula for restoring Chinese control in North China.
At Tokyo Foreign Minister Sato said that China's wish to be treated
on an equal footing " should be respected and past differences forgotten."
A council called by the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce formally declared
that it was useless to press further in North China, and that economic co-
operation was impossible unless political differences were solved. Finance
Minister Yuki said, in the clection campaign, " Japan's economic policy
cannot stand without regard to China. The Army understands this point
now and agrees that cconomic co-operation in China is essentual. We
propose to go ahe d with it."
Meanwhile the Central Government of China made further progress
toward unitication. Pressure from Nanking brought more co-operation
from Sung Che-yuan, chaurman of the Hopei-Chahar Council.
Smuggling by Japanse and Koreans, which had been a evere point
of irritation in North China, was brought further under control by the
Chinese.
A new National Defense Councii was formed under Chiang Kai-
shek. It was reported that this council would include General Feng
Yu-hsiang, General Ho Ying-chin, and General Pain Chung-hsi, and that
Pai would succeed Ho as War Minister. This would be espectally signi-
ficant because Genera! Pai is one of the two Kwangsi leaders who started
the rebellion in the South a year ago, intended to force a declaration of
war against Japan.
À congress representing zoo,o00 young Comnunists formed the
35

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
No thwest Youth Association as the basis of a nation-wide organization
prepared to fight Japan, and telegraphed to the Central Government a
renewed offer of Communist co-operation.
The total effect of the past two months was such as to inspire in
China the over-confidence which Mr. Peffer finds to be so dangerous for
China herself at the present moment.
R. J. W.
From Mr. Peffer's article we will only extract a few
sentences :
What needs most to be said about China now is that the Chinese
are very close to losing their balance. If they do not pull themselves up,
they will repeat the mistake they made almost ten years ago, with the
same disastrous consequences. In fact, it is difficult just now to say
which China has more to fear: Japan or China, the ambitions of the
Japanese Army or the state of mind of the Chinese people. The latter,
I am inclined to think. For it may succeed in bringing on a war that
is not easy to prevent in any case but that could still be prevented....
(China) won a great moral victory last autumn. It stood off Japan
by sheer force of will. But the victory. has borne an over-confidence, a
recklessness and an impatience to exploit the victory that may very well
bring on that which the Chinese have had most reason to dread till now—
a formal attempt by Japan to conquer the country by force. What began
as a resignation to war if necessary, as a last resort, in self-preservation,
is now in a fair way to becoming a will to war. One has only to be here
in China for forty-eight hours to be shocked by the recklessness with
which not only students but mature and influential Chinese talk and think
of war.
36

=== Page 87 === (confidence 1.00)
FUNDAMENTAL ISSUES IN SINO-JAPANESE
RELATIONS
WHO RULES CHINA?
We must, however, go deeper to find the real reasons be-
hind the present developments of Chinese policy. These facts
do not shed sufficiently satisfactory light on the underlying im-
pulses and motives that have guided China. For that, we must
tind out the hidden force that is leading China.
Let us go back two and a half decades to the birth of the
present régime. The revolutionary dreamer, Sun Yat-sen, push-
ed over the tottering structure of the Chinese Empire. He pro-
claimed the People's Three Principles, and in their name he de-
manded the abolition of unequal treaties, of foreign rights acquired
allegedly by conquest. An age of chaotic civil wars followed.
The Chinese National Party had to cope with powerful war lords
and barely extended its rule over a part of Canton. But a new
power arose. The Bolshevist party ruled the millions of the
old Russian Empire. From the Kremlin spread a campaign to
bolshevize the world. And Moscow's help was extended to
the Kuomintang.
With the aid of Russian men and money, the Canton Revo-
lutionary Government waged an economic war on British
Imperialism, holding Hongkong by the throat. Then, under the
leadership of the cadets from Colonel Chiang Kai-shek's Whampoa
Military Academy, the revolutionary armies swept to the north
to stop at Hankow. There a split occurred; Chiang Kai-shek
broke away from the left wing of the party and his Communist
advisers. The Nationalist Party set out to conquer China.
Ten years have elapsed since those hectic days. Under the
slogans of " Down with Imperialism!" and " Scrap the unequal
treaties!" the Kuomintang has fought its way to power, uniting
the people in a common hatred of the "foreign imperialists."
Fierce hate against them was the common link between the
peoples of different languages and customs of the South, the
37

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
Central Provinces and the North. British and American " imperi-
alism" was attacked and boycotts declared. Students were killed
on Nanking Road in the Shanghai Settlement. American
women were attacked in Nanking. Great Britain abandoned
her concessions in Hankow and Kiukiang.
Then the Kuomintang turned on Japan. From 1915 to
1931 seven boycotts were declared. The Nationalist flag was
hoisted in Manchuria, where Japan had vital interests for which
she had already staked her existence in two wars in 1894 and
1905. Kuomintang agitation began there too, menacing Japan's
legitimate interests. Nippon's diplomats, pursuing the policy
which had prompted the Washington agreements, made to help
China to her feet and exerted utmost forbearance and amity. But
the Kuomintang pursued its " revolutionary policy "—the uni-
lateral abrogation of unpleasant agreements and the forceful
capture of legitimate interests. Japan could bear no more.
And in September, 1931, the Manchurian affair broke out.
THE BLUE SHIRTS
It was after this affair that the most formidable political
power in China came into being.
In reaction against the corruption which was spreading in
the victorious Nationalist Party, a group of young otlicers,
graduates from the Whampoa Military Academy in Canton,
organized a secret society in order to carry out the ideals of the
Revolution: war against imperialism, abrogation of unequal
treaties and destruction of the military caste. The leadership they
offered to their former director at the Academy, Chiang Kai-shek.
This movement responded to the latter's ideals as well as
to his ambition. In the party he held but a lower rank, compar-
ed with the veteran politicians of the Revolution. His dream of
reaching the pinnacle seemed hardly realizable. As head of this
new organisation he could wield a power which, as a member of
the Kuomintang, was beyond his grasp. So General Chiang
gladly accepted the offer of his old pupils and subordinates and
started to build a fascist party—the mightiest weapon of power
that China, the land of secret societies, has known since the
days of the Taiping.
The Blue Shirts, as the society is known although it has no
39

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.98)
official name, today really rule China. Their nucleus is forned
of some thirty-four men, all save one graduates of Whampoa.
These men, active, devoted to their ideals and their chief, hold
key positions in the party, the Administration and the Army.
The commanders of Chiang's crack "personal" divisions are
Blue Shirts; the spiritual guidance of the armed forces is in the
hands of Chiang's personal representatives, among them Ho
Chung-han.1 Money they have too, either derived from their
positions or supplied by the opium transit dues, which are levied
by Chiang's men and go directly into his war chest.
The membership of the society now totals about 1o,o00,
though it aims at 2 million. But these ten thousand are the
pick of the nation, for Chiang will admit only those who are
willing to become soldiers, to work and suffer, obey and sacrifice,
never seeking official position or personal privileges, and are
able to labor at least 12 hours a day. And also an onth is
taken always to fight Japan bitterly by all and any means. In
fact anti-foreignism—what the Kuomintang called the “ Revo-
lutionary policy"—has always been a weapon of internal politics
in faction-ridden China. It is not to be wondered that the Blue
Shirts seized on this—certain to win popular support—but this
time with Japan as its object.
This is one of the hidden powers that Japan has to face in
China. It has been working up the tide of antagonism all over
the country through the otlicial sections of the Kuomintang and
the countless secret societies which are in existence. This ac-
tivity was the reason why Japan demanded in 193s the withdrawal
 In the Party and Administration: Ho Chung-han, director of the Bareau of
Political Training of Military Council; Kan Tse, Chief of the so-called "G. Pof the
Nationalist Party; Liu Chien-chun, one of the directors of the Canton Military Council;
Teng Wen-i, director of the cultural activities of the Blue Shirts, military ache f the
Chinese Embassy in Soviet Russia; Tseng Kuo-ching, member of the Centrm Executive
Committee; Feng Ti, Military attaché of the Chinese Embassy in Germany, Pan Yu-chiang.
of the Division of National Military Education; the most dreaded Tai Li, conmnder of
the detachment specializing in assassination.
(In the Army) Army and Division Commanders: Hu Tsung-nan (rst Army and rst
Div., Huang Chieh (Commander of and Army and and Division) also general com-
mander of the Customs Police, Kuan Lin-cheng r7th Army and 2sth Div., Tang En-po
(1zth Army), Li Mo-an (roth Div.), Yu Chi-shih ex. 87th Div.), Sun Yuan-liang s8th
Div.). The air force and gendarmerie are as a matter of course under direct Blue Shirt
influence. Tsai Tsin-chün, chief of plice of Shanghai and Chi Chang-chien, chief of
the Peace Preservation Corps of Shanghai, are also members of the society.
69

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
from North China of all Blue Shirt organizations. With their
retreat, productive co-operation was again made possible.
THE BLUE SHIRTS'ALLIES: THE COMMUNISTS
The Blue Shirts in their campaign against Japan were to have
been helped by an ally whom until recently they openly fought.
This is the Communist Party.
In 1935, at the Seventh World Congress of the Comintern
held at Moscow, a new line of action was set. Attempts at direet
revolution in the European countries were to be abandoned for
the moment, as they had provoked strong reaction. The masses
were to be won with the help of the Second International, and
the Communists were to rally the socialists and radicals to their side
and form a People's Front, then take the leadership of government.
In another resolution passed at the Congress, Poland and Japan
were singled out as countries against which efforts were to be
specially directed.
The success reaped by the People's Front policy has been
seen in France and Spain.
In China, following Moscow's orders, the Communists made
a skilful move. Cleverly taking advantage of the prevailing
anti-Japanese sentiment, which the Blue Shirts had already done
so much to intensify, they attempted to take the leadership of the
campaign, and under the slogan of " Fight Japan!" to build a
People's Front and renew the alliance of 1927 between the Com-
munists Party and the Kuomintang.
The feud between the Blue Shirts and Communists subsided--
temporarily at least. Sun Yat-sen's widow, who lives in Shang-
hai, told friends she now dared to go out of the French Conces-
sion, as she no longer feared assassination by the Blue Shirts.
These were the allies that the Blue Shirts found particularly
active in North China when they secretly filtered in again some
months ago. Since that time order has again been disturbed,
the fruitful and harmonious co-operation between Chinese and
Japanese destroyed. Resentment and hate have been fanned into
flame. And one day shooting broke out at Lukouchiao.
THE FORCES JAPAN HAS TO FACE
Such is the situation Japan has to cope with in China. Anti-
40

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
Japanese sentiment is being kindled and cultivated as a matter
of policy. Whether this sentiment itself is justified or not is
beside the question. Wilful excitation against any country cer-
tainly is not in the interest of humanity. It certainly has made
relations between the two peoples born to be friendly neighbors
bitter in an unbelievable degree, bringing with it a train of
sorrow and hardships. There lies the fundamental problem in
the relationship between China and Japan. Will the leaders of
China keep pursuing, for reasons of internal expediency or of
national intent, a consistent policy of hatred against Japan? Re-
action follows action. One clash leads to a counter clash. It is
the privilege and the duty of statesmen to stop, even at a sacrifice
of so-called "national pride" or personal disadvantage, the
lumbering march of nations to disaster.
WHAT JAPAN WANTS: CO-OPERATION, NOT TERRITORY
Premier Konoyé declared, on July zyth, in the 7ist special
Diet session that what Japan wanted of China was not her
territory, but her co-operation. Even the most nationalistic
elements in Japan reject the idea of conquering China with her
400,000,o00 recalcitrant people as utterly foolish. Not even a
single voice urging anything resembling the conquest of North
China has ever been heard in Japan. Such a demand would
run against the policy of the Japanese Government and would
not merit even casual attention.
Japan at heart sympathizes with China's cardinal national
policy of internal unitication and reconstruction of the country
on a unified basis. However, Japan is opposed to a policy of
co-operation with the Comintern or a People's Front, as its only
and natural result is to disturb the peace of the Far East and the
international relations of this part of the world.
May the Chinese people take a true and realistic view of
their country's position in the world and seriously set themselves
to the task of their country's unification and reconstruction pri-
marily by their own initiative and effort. World sympathy—and
particularly Japan's—s theirs. But let them not be made to
believe that a wilful policy of hate and contempt towards any
Power will heighten the esteem in which their constructive
cfforts are held.
4

=== Page 92 === (confidence 1.00)
If China is really avake to this, the present crisis can pave
the way toward Sino-Japanese reconciliation and co-operation,
and so prove to be a worthy contribution to peace in the Far
East and in the world. Then the heavy price paid by the two
countries and the sacrifices they have made will not have been in
vain.
42

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.98)
APPENDICES
CHINESE FORCES IN HOPEI PROVINCE BEFORE
AND AFTER THE INCIDENT (AS OF JULY 21st)
Before
July z1st Increase
incident
Central Army (under
Liu Chih Army
direct control of
Li Mo-an Army
0
17.00
17.000
Chiang Kai-shek)
Central Army (under Shang Chen Army
indirect control) (Pang Ping-hsun Army
7.000
58.000
51.000
Sun Che-yuan Army 57.000
19.000
2.000
Local Armies
Wan Fu-lin Army 16.000
16.00
Feng Chan-hai Army 15.000
15.00
Total
95.000
165.0
STATEMENT OF SIR AUSTIN CHAMBERLAIN IN THE
HOUSE OF COMMONS, MARCH 30, 192
I am in a position to supplement my statement of the other day by facts
derived in part, directly from British sources and, in part, from information
suprit u to His Maiesty's Minister in Peking by American and Japanese re-
presentatives. The looting was carried out by soldiers in uniform belong-
ing to formations under the command of General Cheng Chien. Foreign
women, including Mrs. Giles, the wife of His Majesty's Consu! General.
were thoroughly searched and rudely stripped of valuables. Many hd their
clothes torn off them, and two American women were saved from attempted
violation. These facts can be established by sworn depositions.
SWORN STATEMENT BY MRS. GILES, THE WIFE OF THE
BRITISH CONSUL-GENERAL AT NANKING, ISSUED AS A
BRITISH FOREIGN OFFICE PAPER, MARCH 30, 1927
.. . Three soldiers at once seized me, tore rings off my fingers, inflicting
considerable pain, and snatched brooch in my dress and chain from the neck,
43

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
also watch and bracelet from the wrist. They took shoes from my feet and
felt to see if there was anything in my stocking. They treated me with great
brutality. Mrs. Robert and Miss Blake were treated in the same manner. ...
At one time men came in with executioner's sword, and held it within an
inch of my husband's throat. Another man brandished a carving knife.
Others attempted to tear clothes from myself and other ladies in the party....
STATEMENT REGARDING THE NANKING OUTRAGE
March 24, 1926
In order that the American public may know the facts regarding the
Nanking outrage, we, the undersigned American citizens and residents of
Nanking who were present when the outrages against foreign lives and pro-
perty were committed in that city on March path, desire to make a public
statement. Out of our own first hand experience and observation we un-
equivocably affirm that these outrages were committed by armed Nationalist
soldiers in uniform who acted with the knowledge and approval of their
superior officers. These outrages consisted not only in the looting of
foreign homes, consular offices, schools, hospitals and places of business, lut
also in the burning of foreign homes and schools; in deliberau murder; in
twice shooting and seriously wounding a young American woman; in
shooting at and attempting to kill foreign men, women and children; in the
attempted rape of American women; and in other shocking indignities to
foreign women too indecent to be published. To many of such we can bear
the sworn testimony of eye-witnesses; and numerous other cases have been
proven beyond the least shadow of doubt. From the statements of many of
the Nationalist soldiers made to us and from the testimony of Chinese
friends, it is an established fact that they entered Nanking with detinite
license, if not instructions, to rob and kill foreigners. From the actions of
the troops it was evident that their plan was to loot foreign buildings, forge
the occupants to disclose the location of their valuables, strip them of their
clothing, and maltreat them at will. Some of us were told both by these
soldiers themselves and also by Chinese friends who helped us to find places
of concealment, that we should surely be killed. It is our conviction that
the firing from the naval vessels prevented the murder of many foreigners
who were caught in the city. It was immediately after the shelling was
begun by American and British ships that bugles were sounded and the
soldiers ceased their svstematic work of destruction, thus demonstrating that
they were under the control of higher military officers. These are all in-
controvertible facts.
It now seems well established, in the opinion of both Chinese and for-
44

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.98)
eigners, that those responsible for these outrages are of the Communist wing
of the Nationalist Government which is dominated and directed by Russian
Bolshevist advisers. They are the enemies not only of foreign interests in
China but also of China's truest welfare, and it is our belief that unless
checked they will nake impossible the realization of an orderly and unified
Government. We have always been in deepest sympathy with genuine
Chinese national aim-, and in spite of the fearful experience through which
we have passed, we maintain this sympathy. For this reason we are appalled
as we think of the inevitable consequences to China and to the world, if the
destructive influences which are now determining the policy of the Nationalist
Government are not restrained.
(Sigued A. J. Bowen, LL.D., Methodist Episcopal Missiun. and Presi-
dent of Nanking University.
P. F. Price, D.D., Southern Presbyterian Mission.
Donald W. Richardson, Southern Presbyterian Mission.
W. R. Williams, Friends Mission.
C. A. Matti, I'riends Mission.
Lohn U. Reisner, Northern Presbyterian Mission.
1. C. Thomson, Northern Presbyterian Mission.
(. Stanley Smith, Nerthern Presbyterian Mission.
Iarry Clemons, Northern Presbyterian Mission.
G. W. Loos, Jr., Northern Presbyterian Mission.
L. J. Owen, Treasarer of University of Nanking.
Edwin Marx, Diseiples of Christ Mission.
L. B. Ridgely, D.D., American Episcopal Mission.
W. P. Roberts, American Episcopal Mission.
J. G. Mager, Arierican Episcopal Mission.
C. L.. Pickens, Jr., American Episcopal Mission.
N. D. Gifford, Jr., American Episcopal Mission.
45

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.95)
Published by Hiromu Toyoshima, The Foreign Affairs Association of Japan,
556-7 Tbe Osaka Brilding, Hibiya Park, Tokyo. Printed by K. Kosakai, be
Konkyusba, 2 Kaguracho I-cbomé, Usbigomé, Tokyo.
46

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.99)
The ORIENTAL
ECONOMIST
ESTABLISHED 1895
ANNOUNCEMENT
TANZAN ISHIBASHI
This journal is independent. It
Editor
pays its own way through legitimate
income from circulation and adver-
tising. It is in no sense propaganda.
Its views are independent; un-
THE ORIENTAL ECONOMIST
biased by any racial, national or
(October, 19:-
other slant except one toward
Featuring the folloning articles :
liberalism.
China's Wartime Finances
This announcement is backed by
BankingProfit on Uparade
a successful career of 43 vears as
the leading economic journal in the
Foreign Exchange Control in
Japanese language.
Japan
It aims to be thorough. During
Emergency
Foreiin Trade
the busy generation of its growth
Control
the journal has built up a large
Perilla as Woodoil Substitute
trained staff and assembled a
Raw Hide Supply Scarcity
unique wealth of statistical data.
Heavy Sulphuric Acid Output
Its fact-finding ability and impar-
Nine Power Treaty
tial analyses are now made available
Review of the Month
in English at the lowest price pos-
sible consistent with costs of pro-
Business Indicators
duction.
Special Correspondence:
From Seoul
Under the personal direction of
From Dairen
its Editor, Mr. Tanzan Ishibashi,
From Tientsin
The Oriental Economist, English
Stocks & Bonds
Edition, is sbsolutely the only
Investment Outlook
authentic monthly report n exist-
ence of social and political as well
The Commodity Market
as economic conditions in Japan
Ocean Transportation
and Eastern Asia.
Statistical Data
SUBSCRIPTICN RATES
THE ORIENTAL ECONOMIST, INC.
U.S.A. Other Foreign
Countries
3-chome, Hongokucho, Nihonbashi
1 year
11s.
TOKYO, JAPAN

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
THOSE WHO WANT TO BE WELL POSTED
ON JAPANESE AFFAIRS SHOULD READ
CONTEMPORARY JAPAN
THE DECEMBER, 1937, NUMBER CONTAINS:—
Our Planned Economy
Shinji Yoshino
Behind Japan's Greater Cabinet
Taketora Ogata
Hostilities and Foreign Exchange
Juichi Tsushima
The Bolshevisation of China
Hikomatsu Kamikawa
Intimate Sidelights on Prince Saionji
Kinkazu Saionji
Sino-Japanese Hostilities : A Frank British
Opinion
H. G. W. Woodbead
Folk Craft
Soetsu Yanagi
The Man in the Street and the Incident
Itaru Nii
The Monroe Doctrine Re-examined
Sakutaro Tachi
Britain's Choice : Japan or Red Ch'na
Yuji Shibata
The U. S. Attitude; Cat's Paw or Common
Sense
Ujiro Obyama
Formosan Glimpses
Shofu Muramatsu
The Righteous (A Story)
Naoya Shiga
Japan's Periodicals—Extracts :
Toshio Shiratori: The Fundamental Significance of Our Continental
Policy—Chikao Fujisawa: A Waming to Britain—Minoru Yokota:
Kuomintang—Communist Rapprochement—Junzo Inamura: Control
of Consumption-Shoken Joshi: Semminberi——Hatsusaburo Hirao: The
Substance of Japanese Culture
Book Reviews :
Gregory Bienstock: The Struggle for the Pacific —F. Mödlhammer:
Moskaus Hand im Fernen Osten—Bruno Taut: Houses and People of Japm
—Sadasuke Amano: The Rational Sense—Yuzo Yamamoto: How Should
One Live?—International Cinema Ass'tion of Japan : Cimems Year Book,
1936-37
Books in Brief: International Control in the Non-Ferrous Metals — A
History of Modern and Contemporary Far East-China's Postal and Other
Communication Services—Readings in Japamese Culture—Gleams From Japen
Chronicle of Current Events (Angust 1—Ortober 3z)
Documentary Material
Subscription Rate (Postage prepaid)
A Single Copy ¥1.50 ($ .75, 3s.) One Year ¥ 5.00 ($ 3.00, 128.)
Two Years
Y9.00 ($5.50, 225.) Five Years ¥21.00 ($13.00, £2, 128.)
The Foreign Affairs Association of Japan
The New Osaka Building, Hibiya Park, Tokyo

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.99)
EVERY
STATESMAN, DIPLOMAT, JOURNALIST, BANKER, IEXPORTER,
IMPORTER AND STUDENT OF INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS
SHOULD HAVE AT HAND
THE JAPAN YEAR BOOK
1937
WITH MAP OF JAPAN
ABOUT THIRTEEN
HUNDRED PAGES,
OCTAVO
IT CONTAINS
ALL the fact about
Japan and Manchou-
kuo in forty-five
closely but brightly
written chapters.
120 Pages of
Appendices
PRICE:
In Japan, Manchoukuo
and China .....Y15.00
In the United States of
America
..$7.00
Elsewhere
..301-
Now on Sale
OBTAINABLE AT
Marusen and Branches, Kyobunkwan.
The French Bookstore, Peiping
The Imperial Hotel Book Store, Mitsukoshi
H. A. Goddard, Sydney
Azakami & Co., London
Akateeminen Kiriakauppa, Helsingfors
The Worid Peace Foundation, Boston and
J. H. de Bussy. Amsterdam
New York
G. Koeff & Co., Batavia
Kelly and Walst. Shanghai and Hongkong
The Oriental Bookstore, Tientain
International Booksellers, Shanghai
Fratelli Treves, Rome
Chinese American Pub. Co., Shanghai
Joseph Kiew Agency. Bangkok
Thacker & Co., Bombay
PUBLISHED BY
THE FOREIGN AFFAIRS ASSOCIATION OF JAPAN
The New Osaka Building, Hibiya Park, Tokyo

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.70)
vergosuH
bb.05 ym
1u8cpscpmu8
Kvoncpmu8
prozuncu
Lcocpeeul
I
Knopmm&cp8
λruBcumuß CusuBruncu

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.96)
Publications
of
The Foreign Affairs Association of Japan
The Japan Year Book, 1937
The Fifth Annual Publication
Now on Sale
Price :
1$7.00
301—
Contemporary Japan,
A Quarterly Review of Japanese Affairs
Price : A Single Copy
175 cents
One Year
1$3.00
(31-
(12'—
Tokyo Gazette, A Monthly
Published under the Supervision of Cabinet Bureau
of Information
Price: A Single Copy
30 cents
One Year
1$3.00
(i/-
(12/—
Booklets and Pamphlets :
(25 cents or 1/—
Titles Subject to Change)
Japan and World Resources
( Ready)
Japan's Advance Southward
(in preparation)
Agrarian Problems in Japan
Political Parties in Japan
”
”
Social Policy in Japan
”
Labour Movement in Japan
”
Education in Japan
”
Japan's Woman Question
”
To be followed by otbers dealing with equally
important problems of the country
The North China Incident, 1937
10 cents or gd.
What Happened at Tungchow?
15 cents or 8d.
How the North China Affair Arose 20 cents or rod.
Why Japan Had to Fight in Shanghai 25 cents or 1/—
The Sino-Japanese Conflict
and Financial Resources
15 cents or 8d.
Japan's Case in the Shanghai
Hostilities
10 cents or sd.
The Sino-Japanese Conflict:
A Short Survey
10 cents or sd.
Particulars can be obtained by writing to
The Foreign Affairs Association of Japan
556-557 The New Osaka Building, Hibiya Park, Tokyo

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.98)
N
To Kalgan
Siyüao
Huangssu
To Kupeikou
Peiping-Swyüan Rly
Tungchihmen
Tehshengmen Antingmen
British, French and Other
Hsichihmen
Powers Maneuver Area
Chaoyangmen
Peiping
Fuchengmen
Papaoshan
Hsipienmen Hsüanwumen
Tungpienmen
Yamenkow (Simenkow)
Chengyangmen
Tungch
Paomachang
Changchrachuang
American Maneuver
Kuanganmen
Japanese Mancuver Area
Temple d. Himmels
Lungwangmiao Tungsintien
E. Wulitien
Yungtingmen
Wulitien
1.ukouchiao
Fengtas
Nanyüan
Chichrachuang
Yangchuang,Changsintien
Kuokungchuang
Chaosintien
Fenchuang
Apanese Maneuver Area
Kaolichuang
Langchiachuang
Lipafang
Changyangtsun
Tienchiatsun
Yungting River
Huangtsun
Liangsiang Hsicn
Peiping-Mukden Rly
Peiping-

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.95)
ONANGCHIAKOW
KUPE NOOW
SHANHSI AR
80,000
MORTH CHAINA 29m ARMY 80,000
35.006
TAIYUAN
LIU CHIH
TSIAN
15.000
TSINGTAB
CHENGCHOU
LOYUAN
WAI-CHOW
LUNG-HAI RAILWAY
SULHOW
CENTRAL TROOPS
CENTRAL TROOPS
NANKING
OHANKOW
HANGCHOW
Position of Chinese Armies
(July 16, 1937)

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.63)
X
10
CSUPIC
habni
卜
LTC.
H
OLU

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.97)
CHINCHOU
JEHOL
(CHENGTE)
YINGKOL
TASHIHCHIAO
ANTUNG
KALGAN
KUPEIKOU.
HSUANHUA
LIUCHIANG
SHANHAIKUAN
PITZUWO
RANGHUANCHEN
CHINHUANGTAO
TATUNG
MENTDUKOU
KAIPING
PEIPING
LUNGCHOL
LUANCHOU
LUKOUCHIAO
FENGTAI
CNANGSINTIEN
LANGFANG
TANGSHAN
CHOHSIEN
LIULIHO
YANGTSUN
TIENTSIN
LUTAI
RYOJYUNO
DAIREN
KADPEITIEN
TANGKU
PORT ARTHUR
YUANDIN
HUANGTSUN
TAKU
HODIENTSUN
LIANGKOCHUANG
PAOTINGFU
illm
IMACHANG
nillm
CHEFOO
WEIHAIWEI
TAIYÜAN
SHIHCHIACHUANG
TSANGCHOU
WUCHIANG
NIANGTZUKUAN
KA01
TECHOU
LINCHENG
CHANGTIEN
WEIHSIEN
SHUNTE
KIAOCHOU
TSINANFU
POSHAN
TSINGTAO
TAIAN
LIUHOKOU
CHANGTE
YENCHOU
FENGLECHEN
TAOKOUCHEN
CHINING
CHINHUACHEN
LINCHENG
HAICHOU
HSINHSIANG
SUNCHIASHAN
WUCHIHHSIEN
KAIFENG
KUITE
CHILTIN
LOYANG
CHENGCHOU
LIUHO
anllann
SHUCHOU
YENCHENG
PANGPU
YINGCHOU
HUAIYUAN
YINGSHANG
TINGYUAN
PUKOU
MINCHIANG
NANKING
SUCHOU
WUSUNG
HOFEI
SINYANG
SHANGHAI
WUHU
YUHSI
HSUANCHENG
willlin
DENOTES ONE DIVISION
willllhunn.
DENOTES FOUR DIVISIONS
POSITION OF CHINESE ARMIES, AUGUST 3, 1937

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.98)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
2022
NOTE
SUBJECT Contract with Japanese national, N. Susuky, for planting
cinchona trees and estab isning quinine laboratory.
cuadorean Minister of Agriculture authorized to enter
into -. Sumnary of provisions of contract; r. Susuky
allowed to bring into Ecuador not more than 80 techni-
cians and laborers, no doubt Japanese nationals.
894.20222
2
6
mjd
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
11736
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, elo.)
From
Ecuador_(Gade)
Dated.....October..31,1939
To
File No.
822.6173usuky,N./2
U. B. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1—1540
6
