894.3211 Personnel. Organization. Discipline. Mutiny. Compulsory Naval Services., Commissioned Officers., Japan, Detail For Language Study In Foreign Countries., October 17, 1940 - September 10, 1941 (File 1300)
ID: 894.3211-1300   Pages: 17   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.3211-personnel-organization-discipline-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.89)
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON

1940 OCT 2 AM 10 13

DIVISION OF CONTROLS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

1940 OCT 2 AM 10 13
File

894.3211

894.3211/1

FILED
OCT 29 1940

J. J.

894.3211/1

The Japanese Ambassador presents his compliments to the Honorable the Secretary of State and has the honor to transmit herewith a biographical record of Engineer Lieutenant Masakazu Tukasaki, newly arrived language officer of the Imperial Japanese Navy.

(Enclosure)
Original dated by
By: B. P. WY.

October 17, 1940

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.92)
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
940 OCT 24 PM 1 55 PM
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DIVISION OF CONTROLS
FILED
NOV 4-1940
894.3211

No. 264

The Japanese Charge d'Affaires ad interim presents his compliments to the Honorable the Secretary of State and, with reference to the Ambassador's note No. 255, dated October 17, 1940, has the honor to state that Masakazu Tukasaki's title was incorrectly stated, and that it should be Ordnance Lieutenant instead of Engineer Lieutenant.

October 23, 1940

g.y.

894.3211/2
FILED NOV 4-1940
894.3211/2

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.97)
APR 10 1941
894.3211/521
PS/HH

In reply refer to
FC 894.3211

PERSONAL AND
CONFIDENTIAL

Dear Mr. Hoover:

I acknowledge receipt of your confidential letter of February 20, 1941 pertaining to one Masakusu Tukasaki, an Ordnance Lieutenant detailed to the Japanese Naval Attache's Office in Washington, D. C., as a language officer. You request information pertaining to the status of this alien as well as data concerning his background.

The records of the Department indicate that this alien does not enjoy diplomatic immunity. He was born in Tokyo, February 4, 1915, and arrived in the United States, October 11, 1940, at the port of New York on the steamship Hakaesaki Maru. He is an "Ordnance Lieutenant" and is assigned for duty in the United States as a language officer.

I regret

The Honorable
J. Edgar Hoover, Director,
Federal Bureau of Investigation.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-

I regret that the biographical record of this alien available to the Department is not mere complete. As stated above, this man is not entitled to diplomatic privileges; however, his services come under the supervision of the Japanese Naval Attache at Washington. As you are no doubt aware, this Government has several young Naval officers assigned to Japan as language students and they are assigned to our Embassy in Tokyo in much the same manner as this alien is assigned to the Japanese Naval Attache's Office in Washington. Should your Bureau conduct an investigation of the activities of this Japanese officer, I would recommend that discretion be used in this surveillance by your Special Agents.

Sincerely yours,

Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary

A true copy of the signed original. Mf

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF PROTOCOL

March 4, 1941.

Mr. Lyon:

With reference to your inquiry concerning Masakuzu TUKASAKI, I have the following:

Born February 4, 1915 in Tokyo.
Japanese nationality.
Arrived in U.S. October 11, 1940 at New York on the SS HAKOZAKI MARU.
He is an Ordnance Lieutenant serving as a language officer at the Japanese Naval Attache's Office in Washington.
Previously a language officer in England.

I do not have a record of his date of appointment in my file, but I do have a reference to the Embassy's note no. 255 of October 17, 1940, which I presume was the letter of notification. Mr. Spruks' office does not have a record of him on the "White List".

PR:WILLIAMS

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.97)
Federal Bureau of Investigation
United States Department of Justice
Washington, D. C.
February 20, 1941

PERSONAL AND
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER

Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Berle:

This Bureau has been furnished with a copy of a memorandum dated February 4, 1941, from the Visa Division of the Department of State, indicating that a visa has been issued to a Japanese by the name of Masakuzu Tukasaki, an Ordnance Lieutenant detailed to the Japanese Naval Attache's Office in Washington, D. C., as a language officer. It is noted that this individual was at one time a language officer in England.

It will be appreciated if you will advise whether Masakuzu Tukasaki is a member of the consular or diplomatic service of any foreign country and if so whether he is entitled to diplomatic immunity.

It will also be appreciated if you will advise me of any background information which the Department of State may have concerning this individual.

Sincerely yours,

J. E. Moore

Justice Department Guidelines, 1-27-1984
5-18-1984

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.97)
894.7211/4
PS/MM

Confidential File

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.85)
DEC 1941
894.7211/4
FILED OCT 22 1941
PS/MM

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1941 NOV 20

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF STATE
DEC 1941

OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER OF STATE
DEC 1941

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1941 NOV 20

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF STATE
DEC 1941

894.7211/4

10-20-41

Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Junior
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Berle:

For your information, I am transmitting herewith data which may be of interest to you.

Sincerely yours,

John Edgar Hoover
Director

DECLASSIFIED
Justice Dept. of State 1-22-1964
By R.T. NARS, Date 5-16-1994

Your Reference
Enclosure

FILED
OCT 22 1941
894.7211/4

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.97)
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

1

CASE ORIGINATED AT WASHINGTON, D. C.

FILE NO. 65-1664

|  REPORT MADE AT WASHINGTON, D. C. | DATE WHEN MADE 8-20-41 | PERIOD FOR WHICH MADE 7-9-41 8-8-41 | REPORT MADE BY W. J. GOODWIN WJG:LS  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  TITLE MASAKATO TUKASAKA |   |   | CHARACTER OF CASE INTERNAL SECURITY - J  |

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

Private MAURICE BARCO of Metropolitan Police Department advised that Subject's car had been found to have four bullet holes in it, and what appeared to be blood stains in it; Assistant Coroner Dr. ROSENBERG reports stains in car were not blood. TUKASAKA questioned by Metropolitan Police Department in presence of Agent, stated that the bullet holes were found in his car after it had been parked all day back of the Alban Towers Apartment in Washington, D. C.; denied knowledge of who shot them in the car. Laboratory report on two books, one magazine, two maps obtained from instant car and submitted to Bureau for examination, set out. Inspector GLENDENING of Immigration and Naturalization Service, advises Subject has made arrangements to leave Washington, D. C., July 11, 1941 for Seattle, thence to Tokyo, sailing July 18, 1941.

- C -

REFERENCE:

Letter from the Atlanta Field Division, dated October 23, 1940; Letter to the Bureau, dated November 30, 1940.

DETAILS:

AT WASHINGTON, D. C.

|  APPROVED AND FORWARDED: | SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE | DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES  |   |   |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  |   |   |   |   |
|  COPIES OF THIS REPORT 1 - Bureau 2 - Philadelphia (Inf.) 2 - Boston (Inf.) 2 - Washington Field |  |  |  |   |
|   |  |   |   |   |

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1941 — O-281898

=== Page 10 === (confidence 1.00)
Investigation in this case is predicated upon information received on July 3, 1941, by Special Agent F. I. McGARRAGHY, from Private MAURICE BARCO, No. 3 Precinct, Metropolitan Police Department, who telephonically advised this office that the Police were bringing to police headquarters, an automobile which belonged to MASAKAYO TUKASAKA, and that this automobile had four bullet holes in it and that apparently there were blood stains in the back of the car. He further stated that this car had a brand new movie camera in it. BARCO said that Subject is a student at Maryland University and resides at the International House, and apparently lives sometimes with a Japanese Admiral, Captain ICHIRO YOKOYAMA. BARCO further stated that he was going to the International House for the purpose of getting the Subject and bringing him to police headquarters for questioning. He said that Subject had no diplomatic immunity. He advised that he had made some inquiry in the home of Captain YOKOYAMA and had talked to the Japanese interpreter there and had been told that the holes in the automobile of the Subject were caused by some mischievous youngster in the neighborhood. BARCO requested that a representative of the Federal Bureau of Investigation act as interpreter, rather than use an interpreter furnished by the Japanese Naval Attache's office. He was advised that this office would communicate with him in the event an Agent wished to question him.

On July 9, 1941, Inspector W. P. GLENDENING, Inspection Unit, Bureau of Immigration and Naturalization Service, telephonically contacted Special Agent K. M. PIPER to advise that he, accompanied by Private MAURICE BARCO, of the Metropolitan Police Department, interviewed MASAKAYO TUKASAKA on the evening of July 8, 1941, in an effort to ascertain information bearing upon the bullet holes appearing in the automobile of TUKASAKA. GLENDENING advised that TUKASAKA, who, incidentally does not have any diplomatic immunity, claimed that he was in the company of Captain ICHIRO YOKOYAMA, Naval Attache, Alban Towers Apartments, driving through Shenandoah Valley and that upon looking in his rear view mirror he noted that it was impossible to

-2-

=== Page 11 === (confidence 1.00)
see through the rear window due to obstruction from glass
fractures. Upon making an examination it was noted, according
to TUKASAKA, that there were bullet holes in the back
of the car. GLENDENING advised that TUKASAKA did not offer
any logical explanation for these, claiming that he had no
knowledge of them, and TUKASAKA was unable to explain the
cause of the apparent accident to this car, since it had
been noted from examination of the car by GLENDENING that
the hood had been repaired as well as a new grill work
having been placed in front of the radiator, and apparently
the bumper had been repaired since there had been some cheap
spray paint placed upon it.

GLENDENING stated that TUKASAKA was an officer in
the Ordnance Department of the Japanese Imperial Navy on a
two year tour of duty, having first been assigned to London
and due to activities there came to the United States in
October, 1940, entering Catholic University on June 30,
1941, where he was studying labor problems and economics.
He stated that arrangements have been made by TUKASAKA to
leave Washington, D. C., on July 11, 1941, enroute to
Seattle, Washington, for travel to Tokyo on July 18, 1941.

GLENDENING stated further that from October, 1940
to May, 1941, TUKASAKA attended the University of Pennsylvania,
where he studied mechanical engineering and that on
May 15, 1941, he left Washington, D. C., enroute to Bangor,
Maine, by way of New York, Philadelphia, and Niagara Falls,
and that inquiries of the Conoco Oil Company reflect that he
requested maps of Mexico, particularly inquiring for routings
along side roads rather than upon the principal and main
highway.

GLENDENING advised that preliminary tests for
blood had been made of stains in the rear of the automobile
with negative results, and he stated that the bullets were
approximately of 38 caliber since he checked with 48 caliber
bullets which he had, and they were too large to penetrate.
He advised further that there was found a new movie camera
in the back of this automobile, as well as a map of Washington
reflecting the main streets.

-3-

=== Page 12 === (confidence 1.00)
It might be noted that information furnished by Private BARCO and GLENDENING failed to reflect that any match books or materials of any kind have been found in the automobile by personal reporters of TUKASAKA which bear upon National Defense.

The writer contacted Private MAURICE BARCO, No. 3 Precinct, Metropolitan Police Department, who advised substantially the same information as set forth in the information furnished by Inspector GLENDENING. The writer inspected the Subject's car and it was ascertained to be a 1940 Buick, Four-Passenger Coupe, District License No. 65-683, Motor Number 53,991,770. There was one bullet hole in the rear glass, one bullet hole in the side panel glass next to the back seat, one bullet hole in the side window, and one bullet hole in the right rear hub-cap. All four bullet holes appeared to have struck the right-hand side of the automobile. An examination of the contents of the car revealed two copies of a Japanese Book, "The Central Review", which was forwarded to the Bureau; one copy of a Japanese magazine written entirely in Japanese characters, which was forwarded to the Bureau. There was nothing in the above-mentioned articles which would indicate activities inimical to the security of the United States. One map containing Japanese characters was also found in the car, and the Bureau Laboratory examination of this revealed the following:

"This letter is written in script and some characters are not readable but the meaning is quite clear in general. 'I hasten to reply to your letter.

I entirely overlooked (something) the other day, please pardon. Since I arrived at (place not clear) there has been so much confusion from nine o'clock in the morning till ten or eleven o'clock at night till it is difficult to sleep. I am much absorbed in making a change up to the present time.' (Then follows a line that is not clear) The address of a person is given (a Mr. Imai) c/o Mrs. Drake, 79 Upland Road, Cambridge, Massachusetts, Telephone Kirkland 4458. The map shows the place named in the address. The top of the map is toward Boston. Going from the bottom of the map we have the Charles River near the bottom. The square marked in the street shows where the Electric Car Line runs underground. Across the street from Harvard University is the Public Park and the Hotel Commander is the black dot near. Then near the top is the Sears Store Building. The note says the railroad cannot be seen from the house. The letter then continues:

-4-

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
'Mrs. Drake has two rooms that are vacant and everything is very convenient there. In case you definitely decide on a room, it seems that you should let the engineer know. I shall see you at (Rafu, same place as mentioned above) at the end of the month.
to Mr. Nakayama.'

Cannot read the signature

One mimeographed map with the English words "Manor Country Club" contained thereon, and a few Japanese characters, was also found in the car, and the Laboratory report on this is as follows:

"This map shows part of the District of Columbia and part outside. From a point at the junction of the Seventh Street Pike, George (ia) Ave. and 16th Street, the Japanese characters in parenthesis read: '8 miles from here'."

There was also a Conoco Touraide Map, with the Subject's name on the front, indicating a route of travel from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania to Trenton, thence to Willsboro and Buffalo, New York, thence to Rochester, New York, to Portland, Maine, Bangor, Maine, returning to Boston, Massachusetts, Hartford, Connecticut, New York City, Trenton, Pennsylvania, and back to Philadelphia. There was a laundry ticket for M. TUKASAKA from Quaker City Laundry, Philadelphia, giving his address in care of Mrs. JAMES, 5034 Pine Street. This ticket was dated May 17. The automobile contained a picture of the

-4A-

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
Philomouian Club in December of 1940, with the information contained thereon Annual Banquet, International Students House. This picture was made by the News Photo Service, 34 South 17th Street, Philadelphia, and addressed to the Subject, in care of Kettling, at 447 South 3rd Street, City. The rear of the automobile contained several copies of maritime reports sent to MAGOTO TAKITA, addressed No. 79 Upland Road, Cambridge, Massachusetts, and had been forwarded to 413 Alban Towers, 3700 Massachusetts Avenue, Washington, D. C. There were several copies of the Hampshire Telegraph and Naval Chronicle addressed to the Subject, Japanese Naval Attache, Alban Towers, Washington, D. C. These papers were dated 1940 and contained a block stamp "30 Portman Square, London".

Private BARCO advised the writer that the Subject had been released on the night of July 8, took to his home and at that time, they had allowed him to take the camera mentioned by Inspector GLENDENING, home with him. He stated that they did not find any undeveloped film in the car. BARCO further advised that Assistant Coroner Dr. ROSENBERG had examined the stains in the rear seat of the automobile and after a preliminary blood test, advised that they were not blood.

Private BARCO explained that he intended to bring the Subject back to the Police Station for further questioning, at which time he intended to have representatives of G-2 and ONI present, as well as the writer. He requested that the writer accompany him to the Subject's house, at 1708 New Hampshire Avenue, N. W. The writer accompanied Private BARCO to the above-mentioned address, where it was ascertained that the Subject was not at home, and had spent the night at the Naval Attache's apartment in the Alban Towers. The Subject's room-mate, one SIUICHI SHINOHARA, was in his room and Private BARCO questioned him, in an attempt to ascertain how the bullet holes got in the Subject's car. SHINOHARA denied that he had any knowledge

-5-

=== Page 15 === (confidence 1.00)
of when or how the car was shot. It was noted that SHINOHARA could not and did not wish to speak very good English, and in this manner, avoided answering some of the questions propounded to him. He advised that he was a student in this country, having been here since January, 1940. He stated that he was employed by the Bank of Japan in New York City, and that he was presently studying Economics at George Washington University. He stated that he intended to stay in this country for two or three years, and exhibited his Alien Registration Card, which is No. 3,579,125, listing his residence on the Card as % Dr. MASON, 2265 Sedgwick Avenue, Bronx, New York. It was noted by the writer that SHINOHARA had in his book-case a book entitled "Naval Ordnance", published in 1939 by the United States Naval Institute, several Japanese books, a book entitled "Nazi Europe and World Trade", a book entitled "Berlin Diary" by EDWIN SHIRER, another book, "America in Our Day", and a pamphlet on military books published by D. VAN NOSTRAND Company, Inc., 103 Church Street, New York City. SHINOHARA informed Private BARCO that the Naval Ordnance book was the property of the Subject and that the other books belonged to him. Private BARCO then proceeded to the Alban Towers, accompanied by the writer (it should be noted, however, that the writer did not go in the Alban Towers), where he picked up TUKASAKA and an interpreter, KUN-ICHI SASAKI, and proceeded back to No. 3 Precinct, the Agent's identity not being made known to either of the Japanese.

Inspector W. P. GLENDENING, Inspection Unit, Bureau of Immigration and Naturalization Service, and LEE SHIPMAN, of ONI, were at the 3rd Precinct. Subject TUKASAKA was questioned by BARCO, in the presence of the above-mentioned and the writer. TUKASAKA advised that he had come to this country from London, and that he was presently in Washington, where he had enrolled in Catholic University, for the purpose of studying Engineering. When questioned regarding the bullet holes found in the automobile, TUKASAKA advised that

-6-

=== Page 16 === (confidence 1.00)
on the 28th of June, he had left his room at 1708 New Hampshire Avenue, and driven his car to the Alban Towers, where he parked it on a street in the rear of the Alban Towers, and that thereafter, he, accompanied by Commander NAKAYAMA and Lieutenant Commander OKADA, and an Engineer Lieutenant YAMADA, had proceeded in another automobile down the Sky-Line Drive into the Shenandoah Valley. He stated that they had been sight-seeing in the Shenandoah Valley, returning to Washington that evening about 8:00 P. M., and that about 10:00 P. M., he returned to his automobile to go home, at which time he found the bullet holes in it. It should be noted at this point that Inspector GLENDENING had previously advised that the Subject had stated that he was driving through the Shenandoah Valley when he noted that it was impossible to see through his rear-view mirror, due to obstruction from glass fractures. The writer pointed out this discrepancy to Private BARCO, who advised that the Subject had stated the same information the night before, that is, to the effect that he found the bullet holes in his car after he returned to the Alban Towers.

TUKASAKA explained that the repairs done on his automobile had been done in October, 1940, and January, 1941, when he had had accidents in the car. It should be noted that Inspector GLENDENING seemed to be of the opinion that TUKASAKA could offer no logical explanation for the apparent accident to his car. The writer, upon questioning Private BARCO about this discrepancy, was advised that possibly they had misunderstood the Subject, due to his poor English, as to how these accidents had occurred. Private BARCO questioned the Subject as to how he obtained the book on "Naval Ordnance", and TUKASAKA stated that he had ordered it from the Japanese Naval Attache in New York City. SHIPMAN, of ONI, stated that these books were available to the various foreign Naval Attaches.

While Subject TUKASAKA was being questioned by Private BARCO, the writer obtained his Passport, and with the aid of the Police Photographer, obtained pictures of TUKASAKA from the Passport. These pictures are being retained in the Washington Field Office file.

-7-

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
TUKASAKA, upon being questioned regarding his travel while in the United States, advised that he had traveled from Washington down the East coast to Key West, Florida, back through New Orleans, Louisiana to Houston and Dallas, Texas, returning from Dallas to Washington. He stated that this was a sight-seeing trip. However, it was noted when he was questioned regarding the length of stay in the various cities, he mentioned that he had stayed only one night at Houston and Dallas, and when asked by Private BANCO as to why the short stay, he stated that he was traveling according to schedule.

TUKASAKA was questioned at length by BANCO to check his story as to how the bullet holes got in his automobile. However, the Subject steadfastly maintained that he did not know and stated that apparently it was due to mischievous children in the neighborhood.

This case is being closed upon authority of the Special Agent in Charge, in view of the fact that the investigation reveals nothing inimical to the United States.

- CLOSED -

-8-
