894.427 Education. Correspondence Schools., Japan, Cultural Relations. Exchange Of Professors And Students., March 25, 1940 - March 22, 1943 (File 1382)
ID: 894.427-1382   Pages: 48   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.427-education-correspondence-schools-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
March 22, 1943
STRIOTLY CONFIDENTIAL
257
To the American Charge d'Arfaires ad interim,
Chungking, China.
The Secretary of State encloses for the Embassy's
information a copy of a memorandum prepared in the
China Section of the Division of Cultural Relations
894!427/A
on the subject: "Japan's Program of Cultural Relations,
1942."
894.427
Enclosure:
1. Cepy of memorandum,
"Japan's Program or
Caltural Relations, 1942"
OR eax
MAR 18 1943PM
MAR20 1943PM
RO:PWXtha
8/18/45
mat

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
January 30, 1943
JAPAN'S
PROGRAM OF CULTURAL RELATIONS, 1942.
894.42
A report based upon Japanese shortwave broadcasts,
as recorded by the Foreign Broadcast Intelligence Ser-
vice of the Federal Communications Commission, and
compiled by the Division of Cultural Relations,
Department of State.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
CONTENTS
Page
No.
1.
Summary..
1
2.
The Source Material..
3
3.
Japanese Military Government as the Basis
of Cultural Relations.
4
4. Eucational Control in the Occupied Areas....
5
5.
Peligious Activities in Occupied Areas...
7
S.
Press Control in Occupied Areas....
10
7. Dominant Cultural Propaganda Themes....
11
Organizations Promoting Japanese Cultural
Relations..
12
9. Promotion of Japanese Language Study..
15
10.
Cultural Publications.
19
11.
Motion Pictures and Photographs..
21
12.
Radio Broadcasting.
23
13.
Exchange of Students and Teachers.
25
14.
Visits of Statesmen and Scientists..
28
15.
Music and Drama...
31
16.
Art and Archeology..
33
17.
Exhibitions and Fairs.
35
18.
Technical Aid to Health and Agriculture....
36
19.
International Athletics..
37
20.
Educating the Home Front in regard to Other
Nations..
38
Treaties to Formalize Cultural Relations....
39

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
1. Summary
TO:
Mr. Charles A. Thomson, Chief, Division of
Cultural Relations
FPOM:
Haldore Hanson, China Section, Division of
Cultural Relations
William H. Dennis, China Section, Division
of Cultural Relations
SUBJECT:
JAPANESE PPOGRAM OF CULTURAL RELATIONS DURING
1942.
This report indicates that the Japanese Army and
the Japanese Government have stressed and even expanded
their program of cultural relations in the midst of war.
The term "cultural relations" is here used in its
broadest sense, meaning an attempt to build between
selected nations an appreciation of each nation's attain-
ments in scholarship, science, and the arts, and an
understanding of each nation's history and "way of life".
High ranking Japanese Army officers and civilian
officials devoted considerable time during 1942 to con-
ferences on cultural relations, to societies for the pro-
motion of Japanese culture, and to speeches on cultural
subjects.
The Japanese program must now cost millions of dol-
lars annually. On January 28, 1943 the Tokyo radio
quoted a report by the Ministry of Finance that the sup-
plemental Japanese budget for 1943 (apparently referring
to the fiscal year ending April 30, 1943) included "about
150,000,000 yen for renovation of cultural education".
The same broadcast indicated that this cultural appro-
priation represented 1.3 percent of the total budget for
the civilian agencies of Japan during 1943.
Japanese military authorities repeatedly granted
transportation priorities during 1942 for the exchange of
students and teachers between Japan and the occupied ter-
ritories; for the transportation of motion picture films,
books and art objects; and for the travel of Japanese
scholars and scientists within Greater East Asia.
The

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
The support for various projects of the Japanese
cultural program came from the Ministries of Foreign
Affairs, Var, Navy, Education and Agriculture; and from
the Information Board and the Government universities.
The Japanese have attempted, in their occupied ter-
ritories, to remould the activities of the schools, the
churches, the press, and other civilian organizations.
They appear to have succeeded in breaking down many of
the previous cultural institutions of the Americans, the
British and the Dutch in those regions.
Then the time comes for the American Government to
begin its cultural relations with the regions now under
military occupation by Japan it will probably be found
that despite the initial handicap of hatred aroused in
the native populations by an invading Japanese Army, the
Jepanese cultural program had made sufficient headway
to necessitate a cultural effort of unusual vigor by
the United States and the other United Nations.
Nor is this wertime cultural achicvement of an
Axis Power our only concern. We may expect that Japan
and Gormany after being defcated in war will in peace-
time prosccute their old expansionist schemes through
subtle media. Thcir prograas of cultural relations
will cortainly be cmphasized.
It is for this post-war competition of diffcring
"ways of life", as well as for the more immediate con-
tribution to the war effort, that the United States
should develop its cultural relations program in the
Fai East.
To propare for this compotition of ideas the
Amcrican Government should acquire and train a staff
of men oxporionced in intcrnational cultural work,
backed by an offective research program on the cul-
turcs of China, the Philippines, Indo-China, Malaya,
Indonesie, Thailand and Burma.
?.The

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
2. The Source Material
This report on Japanese cultural activity is frag-
mentary because it is based upon radio reports which the
Japanese wrote themselves and broadcast by shortwave to
foreign audiences.
The broadcasts were recorded by the Foreign Broad-
cast Intelligence Service of the Federal Communications
Commission. Monitoring reports were then scanned by
officers of the Division of Cultural Relations, who made
routine clippings. It is possible that some Japanese
references to cultural reletions were overlooked.
The resulting picture is a sug estive outline of the
character and quantity of Japanese labor in the cultural
field.
Nothing in the broadcasts would indicate that the
Japanese are falsifying their reports although some
broadcasts appear to be overly optimistic about future
results. The cultural program in the newly occupied
areas during 1942 followed very closely the pattern
which the Japanese applied earlier in China (1937-1941),
at which time the progrem was observed closely by Ameri-
can residents of China.
Each inset paragraph in this report represents the
information condensed from a single broadcast. The
reference in parenthesis at the end of each citation
sives the dato of the monitoring report and the page
number. All dates refer to 1942 unless othervise
incicated.
3. Japanese

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.98)
 =4
3 Japanese Military Government es the Basia
of Cultural Relationg
One fundamental difference existed during 1942
between the Japanese cultural nelations program and
that of the United States. Japan was building relation-
ships primarily with conquered territories while the
United States was dealing with independent countries.
Japanese Military Administrators controlled the
principal cultural instituticns in the occupied areas,
including the schools, the churches and the press.
Those institutions can be used for cultural warfare in
a manner which would not be possible or desirable
between independent nations.
Some officials for the Japanese military administra-
tions are now being trained in a school at Saigon. The
Tokyo radio reported:
The South Seas Institute for the treining of
Japanese administrators to serve in occupied
regions will open in Saigon, Indo-China early
in November. The Institute will be headed by
Dr. Junji Nomura, Frofessor Emeritus of Tokyo
Imperial University, and will be supervised
jointly by the Ministry of Education and the
Foreign Orfice. (October 15, H6)
Dr: Junji Nomura and 60 students arrived in
Saigon December 17 to open the school for
Japanese administrators. It is understood
that the institution will give a three year
course with each year divided into three
terms. Thirty additional Japanese middle
school graduates will be enrolled each term.
Students will study principally native lan-
guages, agriculture, economy and other appro-
priate subjects. (Radio Report on the Fer
East, January 5, 1943, 34)
4. Educational

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
4. Educational Control in the Occupied Areas
As one of the cultural instruments in the hands of
their military administration, the Japanese reopened
some native schools in each territory as soon as their
crmies had completed the occupation.
Many broadcasts during 194? gave statistics on the
number of schools reopened and the numoer of pupils
enrolled in Indo-China, the Philippines, Malaya, the
East Indies, and Burma. Japanese teachers were sent to
many of these schools.
Some aspects of Japanese educational policy are
indicated in the followin: broadcasts in October:
The Education Ministry has been conferring
with the military administrations and other
appropriate authorities in the southern
rcgions in an attempt to complete measures
to educete the younger enerations of the
regions through the guidance of Jananese cul-
ture, so that the entire one billion people
there may be educated in the Japanese way in
the least time.
To carry out such a program it is ecsential
to select persons with high personal qualifi-
cations. Teachers will be selected from the
present staff members of public middle schoole
and from the general public and will be dis-
patched to the southern regions. Applicants
for the positions must have either a teaching
certificate for English in the middle schools,
or higher than middle cchool education. They
must be 45 years old or older.
The first of these groups will be comprised
of l00 middle school instructors, selected
from all parts of the nation....Upon arrival
at their destination they will teach the
Japanese language to the children there,
guiding them into Japanese culture. At the
same time they are expected to spend every
moment with the children of the land, and
by

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
-6
by continual contact implant the spirit of
the Empire. Inducements offered to such
teachers are: Appointment as higher civil
service officials, bonuses of from 10 to
15 percent of the regular salary, an offi-
cial residence, and foodstuffs and other
facilities. 3efore departure the success-
ful canaidates will receive two months of
instruction, during which they will be paid
30 yen monthly. (Radio Report on the Far
East, October 27, A5)
5. Relixious

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
5. Religious Activities in Occupied Areas
Japan has sought to use religion as a cohesive force
within the areas under military control. In this work
the Japanese Government is not restrained by any theory
of the separation of church and state, which would pre-
vent the United States Government from attempting many
such activities.
Japanese broadcasts have emphasized that the mili-
tary administrations are protecting all religions, and
that Japanese scholars are doing notable research work
in the field of religion. The following broadcasts
appear to have been representative:
The birthday of Mohammed was celebrated
throughout Indonesia March 30. Fully
90 percent of the 70, million Indonesians
are said to embrace the Mohammedan faith.
(April 1, AS)
The Imperial Religious Federation, estab-
lished in order that all religious faiths
within the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity
Sphere may unite and cooperate for the
establishment of the Co-Prosperity Sphere,
held its first directors' meeting at Tokyo
May 12. Plans were made for a five-day
conference at the end of September, to be
attended by representatives from religious
organizations in Japan, Manchukuo, China,
Mongolia, Indo-China, Thailand, Burma, India,
Ceylon, the Philippines, Malaya, and the
East Indies. (April 13, A8)
The Japan-Burma Buddhist Conference was held
in Mandalay on May 15. Japan was represented
by Bishop Sakurai and 9. others and Burma was
represented: by a bishop and 59 others. The
former Premier of Burma and other high offi-
cials attended. (May 18, A13)
Japanese authorities have permitted the
reopening of 71 churches in Hong Kong,
including those of Protestant, Catholic,
Taoist,

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
Toist, Buddhist and Moslem faiths.
(June 30, B6)
The International Buddhist Society is hold-
ing an elaborate program in Hibiya Hall,
Tokyo, on July 25, featuring Buddhist music,
motion pictures, and an international broad-
cast to Thailand, Burma and India. The aim
of the program is to create "a feeling of
international unity among the nations where
Buddhism is the form of religion".
(July 22, D5)
The second book of a four-volume encyolopedia
on the Catholic religion has been issued by
St. Sophia University of Tokyo, which is said
to possess the most extensive library of
Catholic literature in Japan. (August 8, E8)
Official holidays declared by the Japanese
administration in Indonesia include the Islam
new year, Mohammed's birthday, Mohamned's
ascension day, Lent and others.
(Radio Report
on the Far East, August 31, E3)
A Moslem culture library ana a Moslem research
institute have been cstablished in Batavia.
(Radio Report on the Far East, August 31, E3)
The Executive Committee of the Philippine
Federation of Evangelical Churches today
invited Dr. Toyohiko Kagawa, famous Japanese
: evangelist, to visit thc Philippines.
(October 23, H9)
A report from Changteh, capital of Jehol
province in Inner Mongolia, states an Oriental
Culture Promotion Association will be organized
shortly to make copies of the complete Buddhist
Scriptures, of which only two complete original
copies are in existence. One is at Changteh,
the other at Paris. (November 11, F12)
A general conference of Protestant churches in
Japan announced the merger of all denominations
into the Nippon Church of Christ of Japan. The
merger includes the Young Men's Christian
Association,

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
Association, Young Women's Christian
Association and the Association of
Women's Temperance Unions.
(November 24, F7)
Archbishop O'Dougherty of the Philip-
pines is quoted by the Tokyo Radio as
Gesiring the establishment of a joint
Philippine-Japanese Catholic Congrega-
tion, which will conduct studies of
Japanese Catholicism, and arrange for
the exchange of missionaries, magazines
and papers. Twenty young female
Japanese missionaries are alrealy
scheduled to leave for the Philippines.
(Weekly summery, November 14, p.49)
6. Press

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
6. Press Control in Occupied Areas
The military control of the press is not a subject
useful for international publicity; consequently the
Tokyo radio seldom mentions such control measures. The
following three broadcasts are indicative of the trend:
The principal newspapers in Japan will send
representatives to operate the newspapers in
the areas occupied by Japan. The.army will
supervise their work. Japanese-language
papers will be published in Malaya, Singapore,
Sumatra, North Borneo, Java, the Philippines
and. Eurma. Existing Japanese-language papers
in those areas will be absoroed by the new
managers. The policies of English and other
foreign-language papers in the occupied
regions will be directed by the Japanese Army.
(Octoper 20, H5)
On November 1 the Manila Nichi Nichi, Japanese
newspaper, was reorganized as the Manila News-
paper Company, under control of the Tokyo Nichi
Nichi and the Osaki Mainichi. The company is
now operating four newspapers at Manila in the
Jananese, Spanish, En lish anc Tagalog lan-
guages, and plans several magazines.(Radio
Report on the Far East, November 10, I-5)
Thirty delegates from newspapers published in
the Malay, Hindu and Chinese languages in
Malaya and Sumatra will meet in Singapore for
a three-day conference, December 7-9, 1942,
to organize a Malay-Sumatra Newspaper Corre-
spondents Federation. Its purpose will be to
"uide the press trends". (Radio Feport on
the Far East, December 8, L1)
7. Dominant

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
7. Dominant Cultural Propaganda Themes
When Japanese military administrators employ cul-
tural propaganda in their shortwave broadcasts, they
stress three dominant themes:
(1) The cultural influence of the former American,
British and Dutch administrations in the Far East must
oe stamped out; (2) each Asiatic territory must redis-
cover its native culture; and (3) the peoples of
occupied territories must learn more about Japanese
culture. Here are three examples:
An educational conference opened in Tokyo
July 22, attended by 500 representatives
from Mongolia, Manchukuo, and Thailand, to
discuss the suoject, "Drive out American
and 3ritish influence". (July 22, D4)
The question of establishing a new culture
in the Philippines has been under careful
study by the military authorities on the
spot because of the American influence of
individualism and hedonism.
Marquis Yorisada Tokugawa, adviser to the
military administration, called together
the representatives of the military, leaders
of the Filipinos, teachers in universities
and many others, and opened the first forum
on the establishment of the new culture.
The message of the Marquis to the forum
made the following points: (1) the
Filipinos are an Asiatic race and must
return to the family system and must dis-
regard the wrong...received from the
Americans; (2) since Japan is the center
of the new culture, the study of Japanese
culture is especially necessary.
(September 12, E6)
The Tnai Cultural Committee at Bangkok has
announced an essay contest on the subject
of "Ten Years of Thai Culture", referring
to the 10 years since the coup d'etat.
(December 9, G1)
8. Organizations

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
B. Organizations Promoting Japanese Cultural Relations
Several tens of organizations for the promotion of
cultural relations appeared in Japan and in the Japanese
occupied territories during 1942.
These organizations generally maintained a sem-
blance of independence from the Government and the Army,
as though groups of private Japanese citizens were seek-
ing closer cultural ties with groups of private citizens
in other:lands. Some posts of leadership in the organiza-
tions were iven to high ranking Japanese officials or
army officers.
Societies which existed before 1942 for the promo-
tion of Japanese cultural relations were reorganized
durin 1942 to concentrate upon the newly conquered ter-
ritories.
A few of the reports follow. (The underlines were
added by the editors.)
The Japan-China Cultural Council convened its
first 3-day session in Hankow April 21. The
Coungil decided to promote an exchange of stu-
dents and professors between China and Japan,
to hold an All East Asia Athletic Meet, and to
establish a Japan-China Cultural Institute.
(April 24, A6)
Tokyo announces the duties of the Imperial Rule
Assistance Association, as defined by the Cabinet,
are as follows: "To conduct movements among the
people in the categories of education, political
support, reform, agricultural production, leader-
ship, and others". (May 16, A3)
To conduct medical research in the southern areas
occupied by Japan, the Southern Science Research
Society is now being organized oy professors of
the Medical Department of Tokyo Imperial Uni-
versity. (May 20, A9)
A Racial Research Bureau will be created in
Tokyo in July to study the racial problems of
the

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere.
(May 20, A3)
The Filipino Music Association has been
organized and the formation of a Filipino
Literature Association is under way.
(June 27, B8)
President Matsuzo Nagai of the Japanese
International Cultural Society returned to
Japan July 1 from a 40-day tour of investi-
gation of cultural activities in China. The
activities of the Cultural Society, which
were formerly concentrated in Britain and the
United States, will hereafter be directed
toward the countries of Greater East Asia.
In China the Society will cooperate with the
China Cultural Society headed by Chu Min-yi,
Nanking foreign minister. (July 2, 28)
The Greater East Asia Science and Education
Liaison Council, organized in Tokyo under the
auspices of the Army, Navy and Education
Ministries, held its first meeting July 6.
Develooment of Japanese science and education
in the southern regions was discussed.
(July 7, 37)
The Thailand Cultural Relations Center was
opened in Bangkok September 29. The Thai
premier attended.(Radio Report on the Far
Last, October 12, Ci)
The Japan-Philippines Cultural Committee has
been organized under the Department of Health
and Public Welfare of the Philippines Govern-
ment. Its purpose is to study the historical
relationship between the Philippines and other
countries, including such subjects as "What we
should learn from Japan". The Committee has
already issued pamphlets and gathered songs
and ballads. (Radio Report on the Far East,
November 10, I-5)
The Japanese Cultural Institute of Rangoon,
Burma, is being organized by Dr. 3a Maw, a
few Burmese newspaper men and authors, and
the

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
the Japanese Army press section. The insti-
tute plans the diffusion of Japanese culture
through the publication of books, sponsoring
of motion pictures and broadcast of lectures
on Japan.(Radio Report on the Far East,
October 27, H5)
The Asia Development Society of Shanghai will
hold its first meeting November 15. Its pur-
pose is to intensify the spiritual collabora-
tion between the Japanese and Chinese people.
"The Society is a vanguard of the Asia Develop-
ment National Movement to strive for the accom-
plishment of war aims." One of its projects is
said to be the "fostering of culture". (Novem-
ber 3, F8)
The Asia Development Formative Arts and Litera-
ture League held its inaugural session in Tokyo,
attended by 150 persons. The League's purpose
is to protect industrial, architectural and
other formative arts of China, and to develop
the same arts in other areas of East Asia.
(November 4, F8)
The East Asia Agricultural Research Institute
has been organized under the Ministry of Agri-
culture and Forestry in Tokyo. (November 6, F1o)
General Homma called a Philipoine Cultural
Reconstruction Conference on Septcmoer 14, which
was reported to have formulated concrete plans.
(Radio Report on the Far East, December 8, K8)
The Special International Music Committee, under
the Music and Culture Association, has been
organized in Tokyo to "pour out Japanese music
abroad". (January 4, 1943, F13)
9. Promotion

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
9. Promotion of Japanese Language Study
The cultural project which received the most atten-
tion during 1942 in the Japanese occupied areas was the
promotion of Japanese language study.
No Asiatic country prior to 1942 regarded Japanese
as its secondary language and no Asiatic country, with
the possible exception of China, had a sizable number
of citizens who could read or speak Japanese.
It was one of the historic results of western
colonization and trade that English, French or Dutch
had become the secondary language of each of the coun-
tries in Asia and the South Facific.
Japanese authorities made the study of the
Japanese language compulsory in most of the schools
under their control.  They prepared special textbooks
and phonograph records to teach the language.
A negati ve side of this campaign was the fight
e ainst the use of English and Dutch. The names of
cities and streets were changed. English was banned
as the official language of the Philippines and Burma.
Here ere a few of the reports:
Malayan and Dutch newspapers in Java are
now giving instruction in the Japanese
language. Simple phrases like "Thank
you", "How are you?" and "Good morning",
are seen in the pages of the newspapers.
(April 6, A9)
The first Japanese language school in
Satavia will be opened April 29, less
than two months after the fall of the
city. (April 28, AS)
Noboru Ogawa, Japanese Consul General in
Hanoi, who is now in Tokyo for consulta-
tion with Government officials, urges
that plans be speeded to send Japanese
teachers to French Indo-China. He also
asserts

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
asserts that Japan "must follow a positive
program of exchanging students and professors".
The consul reveals he plans to take Japanese
teachers with him when he returns to his post.
(Apr11 30, A5)
The International Cultural Society is speeding
the publication of Japanese-language textbooks
so that they may be sent early in June to the
southern areas occupied by the Japanese.
(May 18, A12)
Japanese language week opened in Singapore
June 1. Movies, lectures, and radio programs
will pe carried out during the week. Signs on
shops and streetcars are being changed to
Japanese. (June 1, A10)
The Japanese cabinet appointed a committee of
its on members to give new names to the areas
occupied by the Japanese in the South Pacific.
Asiatic names will replace American, British
and Dutch names. (June 8, A12)
Eighty-one Singapore schools already have
Japanese language classes. (June ?7, B9)
The Japanese language should be revised to
reduce the number of characters if the Japanese
intend to make their language popular among the
natives of the occupied regions, Hidejiro Nagata
advised the Japanese military administration in
Batavia after a two-week inspection tour of Java.
Nagata is adviser to the Administration.
(July 6, 38)
Japanese and Tagalog have been designated the
official languages of the Philippines. The
radio mentions that this. is the first time that
Japanese has been made the official language of
any area occupied by the Japanese. (July 25, E3)
A thirå series of Japanese language lessons by
radio will begin on the Manila radio station KZRH
August 3. It will be necessary for each student
to purchase for 30 centavos a book entitled
Japanese for Filipinos. (August 1, F2)
The

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
The Manila radio is broadcasting Japanese
language lessons daily from 4:30 to 5:00 p.m.
(Radio Report on the Far East, August 31, I2)
A first shipment of 100,000 phonograph
records containing Japanese language
lessons is being prepared for the occupied
regions by the Japanese Language Society.
(August 29, E5)
A Tagalog-English dictionary is being pre-
pared to facilitate the study of Tagalog.
(Radio Report on the Far East, September 12,
F3)
A simple, illustrated book entitled The
Japanese Language, containing 300 different
Japanese words, has been prepared by the
Information Bureau in Tckyo for use by
people in the occupied areas. (Radio
Report on the Far East, Octoser 27, A5)
Employees of the Japanese Embassy in Indo-
China are teaching Japanese at Hanoi Uni-
versity. They have a first class of 300
and a new class of 200 is bein organized.
(Radio Report on the Far East, October 27,
E3)
New Japanese language schools have been
opened in the Burmese cities of an goon,
Mandalay, Moulmein, Pegu, Bassein, Lashio,
and Maymyo. Some scnools are operating
three shifts, 15 hours a cay. The students
include 400 Burmese priests, 30 Burmese army
officers, and scores of Indians.(Radio
Report on the Far East, October 27, H5)
Penang (Malaya) radio states that those who
learn to speak Japanese will receive higher
wages under the new regime. In Fenang a
school for officials is offering free tuition
to 500. Regular examinations are held in
Singapore for those who attain a certain pro-
ficiency in the language. (Radio Report on
the Far East, November 10, D3)
The Educational Department of the Java Mili-
tary Administration has organized a commission
of

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
of language experts to establish technical
terms in the Melayan language, so that the
native tongue can oe substituted for western
languages previously used.(Radio Report on
the Far East, November 10, F4)
A party of 85 Japanese language teachers has
arrived in Shanghai to serve in the schools
of Taihsien, Kiangsu Province. Three will be
employed in Central University at Nanking and
two at the Kiangsu Provincial Education Insti-
tute. (Radio Report on the Far East, Novem-
ber 24, D3)
In Batavia the Japanese Military Administra-
tion has banned the use of the English and
Dutch languages. (December 1, F10)
About l60 Filipino elementary school teachers
have been enrolled in a Normal Training Insti-
tute to learn how to give instruction in the
Japanese language. The Institute was set up
by the Japanese Military Administration.
(January 2, 1943, F10)
10.Cultural

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
-19-
10. Cultural Publications
The Tokyo radio has mentioned a number of books and
ma azines which have been prepared for distribution in
the Japanese occupied areas. For example:
A new magazine entitled Nippon Philippines
has been placed on the market by the Nippon
Philippine Society. Six thousand copies
will oe sold at a price of S0 cents each
in Philippine currency. (July 11, D4)
A new history of Greater East Asia, based
upon Jananese concepts, will be edited by
the Japanese Ministry of Ecucation. The
history will be in about 50 volumes and
will be suited to the midale class school.
The new history aims at expanding the
history of Greater East Asia (from the
standpoint of the whole area), dwelling on
the rise and fall of its various nations.
Japan's historical mission in Greater East
Asia also will be made clear, while full
explanation will be given concerning the
relations among the various Asiatic races,
as well as how American and Europcan nations
have exploited these Asiatic nations. Thus
it is intended that the perverted Anglo-
American view of the history of Greater
East Asia will be rectified. (July 22, D3)
Books in the Singapore Liorary have doubled
in number to 200,000 since the Japanese
occupation. (Radio Report on the Far East,
September 14, G2)
The Intelligence Section of the Japanese
Embassy in Hanoi will publish a bi-monthly
Annamese magazine entitled East Asia, con-
taining photographs, articles on current
events, and stories from Japanese history
to illustrate the Japanese spirit. (Radio
Report on the Far East, October 27, E4)
Two Japanese novels, Dirt and Sand and Wheat
and Soldiers, have been translated into
Burmese.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
-20-
Burmese. (Radio Report on the Far East,
October 27; H5)
A book entitled Connaissance de L'Indo-Chine,
containing sketches on Indo-Chinese history,
customs, economics and industries, has been
translated into Japanese. The work was done
through the Society for International Cul-
tural Relations in Tokyo, by arrangement with
La Societé'des Amities Nippon-Indochine.
Count Kiyoshi Kuroda, president of the Tokyo
Society, described the book as the first step
in the exchange of culture and knowledge
between the two countries, and said that
La Connaissance du Japon would be ready soon.
(Radio Report on the Far East, November 24,
H4-5)
The first issue of a magazine published in
both French and Japanese, dealing with Indo-
China, has been released by the Society for
International Cultural Relations in Tokyo.
The issue contains "various articles giving
a'vivid description of the national features
and industry of present-day Indo-China".
(Radio Report on the Far East, December 8, J4)
11. Motion

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
-21-
11. Motion Pictures and Photographs
Reports about motion pictures broadcast by the Tokyo
radio concern ohiefly newsreels on the various military
campaigns. The last of the broadcasts cited below refers
to a sizable project in cultural relations.
Films made by special photographic units
attached to the Japanese Fleet are now
being shown in Japanese motion picture
theaters. The films of the spectacular
raids over Pearl Harbor are so (dramatic)
as to serve as an inspiration for the people
of Japan....The films of the Japanese
advances into Java are now being shown. But
(none) can ecual the latest film, which
arrived from Macassar waters, dealing with
the spectacular battle of the Java Sea....
The sinking of the U. S. destroyer Paul Jones
ives proof of the remarkaole marksmanship of
the Japanese gunners operating....in a stormy
sea. (April 2, A8)
In a commentary in Japanese dealing with propa-
ganda, Tokyo declares: "We must teach the mem-
bers or Greater East Asia to understand our
true position....To further our propaganda,
moving pictures and the radio must be used.
Our branch offices are aining results even
in South America, where anti-Japanese feel-
ing is great. The pictures of the Hawaii
attack made a reat impression in Saigon (Indo-
China), where the people now believe that Japan
is strong". (May 1, A5)
Camera crews for the film, The Sattle and Cap-
ture of Hong Kong, are leaving Tokyo May 14
for Hong Kong. (4ay 14, A12)
A survey made by the Home Ministry, announced
on May 23, reveals that 5,258 reels of motion
picture film were exported from Japan to coun-
tries in East Asia in 194l, an increase of
1,000 over the previous year. (May 23, A2)
Nippon

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
-22-
Nippon Eiga Kaisha, a Japanese news reel cor-
poration, under the direction of the Japan War
News Film Council, will forward news pictures
to all the important centers under Japanese
occupation. (June 1, A8)
Nevsreel films showing the downing of American
bombing planes by Japanese anti-aircraft bat-
teries in the Aleutians were displayed in Japa-
nese theaters July 16. (July 17, D1)
A collection of 130 photographs of Japan's mili-
tary might, industry, and cultural activities,
and the life of Thai students in Japan, is being
sent to Thailand for exhibition. Similar exhibi-
tions are to be sent to Indo-China, Burma, Malaya
and the Philippines. (Quoted in Suggestions for
Overseas Propaganda, August 22; Far East 3)
Japanese battle films on Malaya are expected to
be released August 10, and those on the Burma
cempaign September 3. (July 24, F2)
Japanese film distribution agencies will operate
all important movie theaters in occupied areas.
The agencies will be responsible for the distribu-
tion of culture....and films. (september 1l, Ell)
A motion picture on the life and adventures of
Wan Chingwei, leader of the Japanese-dominated
overnment at Nanking, Ohina, is in preparation.
(Radio Report on the Far East, October 12, G2)
A l4-reel documentary film entitled The Philippine
Campaign has been completed by the Press Section
of the Japanese Army. It is comparable to the
previous production on the Malay Campaign. (Radio
Report on the Far East, November 10, I-5)
The Koho Motion Picture Studios are now producing
a dramatic movie of Japanese culture, Tokyo radio
told the Philippines, East Indies, Thailand, Burma
and Indo-China. "The film will show Japanese cul-
ture in its true light and how the peonle of the
Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere live. The
production, a pictorial tour of Japan, will intro-
duce lovely Japanese villages and scenes in such a
way as to explain the flower of true Japanese cul-
ture." (November 6, F1o)
12.Radio

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
-23-
12. Radio Broadcasting
Of the following reports on the use of radio as an
instrument of Government, only two items refer specifi-
cally to cultural subjects. One describes the exchange
between Germany and Japan of their reports on scientific
Ciscoveries.
With repairs on the dama ed transmitter com-
pleted, the Singapore radio station will begin
news broadcasts March 28 in Thai, Pariru,
Hindustani and Cantonese. (March 27, A7)
Ichikawa, Japanese Minister to Iran, reported
upon his return to Japan that reception of
Japanese shortwave broaccasts in Iran was
excellent, especially those in French. He
said that the upper classes of Iran are well
informed of Japanese victories.  (May 11, A4)
Japan and Germany, shut off from easy contact
by the Russo-German war, will exchange
scientific findings via the radio, the Tokyo
radio disclosed on May 19. Tokyo points out
that since hostilities broke out between the
Germans and Russians, it had been impossible
for the Japanese scientists to exchange the
results of their research. The radio plan
vas worked out, "thus bringing about the
cooperation of the Axis countries, even in
scientific research". The Japanese Ministry
of Education has already arranged to obtain
some scientific information from Germany.
These data, it declares, will be broadcast
by Japanese scientists who are in Germany and
on the Japanese end will be compiled and
arranged by the Education Ministry. Then
it will be distributed to Japanese scientists
and "is expected to be of great help to Japa-
nese scientific circles".(May 20, A3)
Radio receiving sets with loud speakers are
being installed in public places in Batavia,
Surabaya, and Bandoeng, East Indies. Some
40 spots have been chosen for the installa-
tions in Batavia. (Weekly summary, August 15,
p.24)
The

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.98)
-24-
The first radio round table discussion between
radio stations in Tokyo, Singapore, Manila and
Batavia will be held on October 13. The broad-
cast is described as "a new page in the annals
of Japanese radio". (October 9, H1O)
The Manila radio is giving lectures on such
subjects as "The Meiji Restoration and Present
Day Japan". (Radio Report on the Far East,
November 10, I-5)
13. Exchange

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
-25-
13. Exchange of Students and Teachers
The following reports indicate that even in wartime
the Japanese Government has been able to arrange for
several thousand students and teachers to travel between
the countries of Greater East Asia.
Twelve members of a delegation of Thai school
teachers have been selected for a trip to
Japan. (April 10, A8)
roup of 4,ooo Japanese boy colonists will
leave Tokyo soon for the Asiatic mainland,
chiefly Manchukuo. (April 13, A9)
Approximately 600 boy and girl students from
China, Burma, Mongolia, Turkey, India,
Thailand, Annam and Germany were entertained
in Tokyo May 2 at a gatheriny sponsored by
10 organizations, including the International
Student Institute of Tokyo, the Japan India
Association, and the Japan Burma Society.
(Earlier reports indicated that some of
these students were flown to Japan in Japa-
nese planes.) (May 4, A6)
Four Thai aviation officers will be trained
under the Japanese at the central aviation
school in China. (May 13, All)
A meeting of German and Japanese students at
Lake Biwa, Japan, closed on May 30. (June 1,
AS)
Some 830 Jananese agricultural students and
150 medical students will be sent from Japan
to North China and Manchukuo during the sum-
mer of 1942 to carry on agricultural research
and give medical service during their summer
vacation. (June 26, 39)
Three Japanese students who will study in
Thailand have been selected. (June 30, B5)
A group of Korean youths who are to be trained
for leadership in their country arrived in
Tokyo

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
-26-
Tokyo July 6 and were received by the Overseas
Minister. (July 7, 36)
The East Asia Students' Society, formed to
assist students from other countries now resi-
dent in Japan or who intend to study in Japan,
held its inaugural meeting in Tokyo July 10.
General Senjuro Hayashi is president of the
organization. (July 11, D5)
Rash Behari Bose, Indian collaborationist,
advised Koki Hirota, head of the Japanese mis-
sion to Thailand, that Japanese youths should
be sent to 1ive among the 2,000,000 Indians in
the region occupied by Japan, and thus promote
better understanding between Japan and India.
(July 21, D3)
Fifty Chinese middle school graduates from Hupeh
Province have been selected for study in Japa-
nese higher and technical schools, "in order to
extend their services as leaders in the recon-
struction of the New China". They will first
spend six months studying the Japanese language
in Tokyo. (Radio Report on the Far East,
Au ust 31, D3)
Six Thai students arrived in Tokyo September 26.
Three Japanese students reached Bangkok on Sep-
tember 23. (Radio Report on the Far East, Octo-
ber 12, C1)
An Annamese medical student has been admitted to
Osaka Imperial University. He is said to be the
first foreigner to be registered as a regular stu-
dent in any Japanese university. (Radio Report on
the Far East, October 27, E4)
Three types of exchange students and teachers
between Indo-China and Japan were announced Octo-
ber 23. (1) The Japanese International Students
Society arranged to exchange three graduate stu-
dents in each direction. The candidates must be
university instructors or graduates, and will
remain in the other country for three years.
(2) The Japanese Embassy at Hanoi agreed to send
five Indo-Chinese middle school graduates to
Japan for university courses of four or five
years.
(3) The

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
-27~
(3) The Embassy also announced plans for a
party of 12 teachers and students to be
exchanged in each direction between the two
countries for a one-month inspection trip.
(Radio Report on the Far East, October 27,
E3-4)
Professor Kamada, Doctor of Surgery at Keio
Medical School, and Ryoko Oshima, Doctor of
Gynecology and Obstetrics at Tokyo Imperial
University, accompanied by four postgraduate
medical students, arrived at Manila Octo-
ber 23 to teach at the College of Medicine in
Santo Tomas University. They will also do
research on tropicel diseases. The medical
school opens November 5. (Radio Report on
the Far East, November 10, I-6)
Five Malayan students, three men and two women,
were awarded scholarships for study in Japan.
The three men are all graduates of Raffles Col-
lege and were at the time of the award employed
in the Malay civil service. The broadcast
states that Marquis Yoshiohika Tokugawa,
Adviser to the Military Administrator, arranged
the scholarships because of "his firm conviction
that young able native leaders educated in Japan
would win the wholehearted cooperation of the
native residents for the common cause of Asiatic
emancipation". (Radio Report on the Far East,
December 22, I-5)
14. Visits

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
-28-
14. Visits of Statesmen and Scientists
In peacetime the travel of prominent citizens from
one country to another is believed to serve a useful
purpose under cultural relations. In wartime it is diffi-
cult to evaluate such travels, especially between a con-
quering nation and its conquered territories.
Japan during 1942 sent junkets of its statesmen to
most of the occupied regions, and most of those regions
sent good-will missions in return.
Many Japanese technical experts also went into
newly won territories, a gesture which might have cul-
tural implications between two independent countries,
but in this instance it would seem to suggest only a
military objective.
To speed up development of the southern ter-
ritories, Japanese military authorities have
decided. to send more than 1,0oo economic
experts to the islands under Japanese mili-
tary administration. About half of these
experts have worked in these territories
sefore. Their present task will oe to
pring production into full stride.
(Auri1 17, D5)
A Japanese scientific party headed by
Viscount (Tsushahedo) will survey undeveloped
resources in Shansi Province in China, and has
arrived in Peking. (Aoril 21, A7)
The Greater East Asia road construction
experts' conference will be held May 29 and
30 at the Sankaido Hall in Tokyo. More than
400 experts, representing Japan, Manchukuo,
Nanking, Thailand and French Indo-China, will
attenc. (April 23)
A Thai Mission to Tokyo was received by the
Emperor on April 21. (Anril 24, A5)
In return for the Thai Mission to Tokyo in
April, headed by Lieutenant General Phya Pahon,
Japan is preparing to send a mission to Bangkok,
headed

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
-29-
headed by Koki Hirota, former foreign minis-
ter. Others in the mission will be Lieu-
tenant General Okamoto, Vice Admiral Inouye,
and the former ambassador to Thailand, Yatabe.
(June 20, 36)
The Japanese Mission to Thailand completed
its duties July 22. (July 22, D4)
A group of 73 Japanese cotton experts, who
will take part in the setting up of a 5-year
cotton plan for the Philippines, arrived in
Manila July 19. (July 21, D4)
A Japanese good will mission to occupied
China, including former premier Hirenuna,
former forein minister Arita, and former
communications minister Nagai, arrived in
Nanking, where it was welcomed by a crowd
of 35,000 persons. (Seotember 23, H8)
Mr. Yoshikawa, a well-known Japanese novelist,
attended a conference of literary men in
Manila on August 1l.(Radio Report on the
Far East, August 31, I-2)
On October 20 literary men of Inco-China
athered in Hanoi to prepare for the con-
vention of writers in Tokyo beginning
Novemoer 3. (Octoper 31, E2)
A Greater East Asia conference of writers
was held in Tokyo Novemoer 3-5, and was
apparently considered a very important event
by the Japanese Government, although the
only non-Japanese delegates were 15 from
China and six from Manchukuo. The first
meeting was held at Imperial Theater with
an audience of 800. (November 3, F6-7)
The writers' conference was preceeded by
similar regional meetings in the Philip-
pines, Thailand, Indo-China, Burma and
Malaya, each of which sent a message to
the Tokyo gathering. (November 4, B6)
The Tokyo meeting was sponsored by the
Japanese

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.98)
-30-
Jepanese Literary Association and had the sup-
port of the War, Navy and Foreign ministries,
and the Information 3oard. (September 25, H9)
Pesolutions were adopted by the writers' Con-
ference urging the following actions: (1) The
founding of a cultural liaison body and cul-
tural research committee. (2) The exchange of
writers petween East Asiatic nations. (3) The
selection and translation of representative
works of the East Asiatic countries as well as
the exchange of literature. (4) The estaplish-
ment of Greater East Asia cultural prizes for
outstanding literary works and persons respon-
sible for the advancement of Asiatic culture.
(3) The sponsoring of lectures on Asiatic Classics.
(s) The holding of an annual Greater East Asia
Literary Conference. (7) Cooperating vith the
Asinmin movement and the pacification campaign.
(8) Contributing toward the consummation of the
Greater East Asia War through literature. (9) The
promoting of Youth culture in the East Asia
Sphere. (November 6, F6)
15. Music

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
-31-
15. Music and Drama
Music and drama are not emphasized in the Japanese
vartime program of cultural relations, and those activi-
ties which did receive publicity were generally related
closely to the war effort.
Good-will groups of Japanese actors soon are
to go to Manchukuo as part of the observance
of Manchuko's lOth anniversary. The actors
vill include the nationally famous
Kikugoro Onoe of the Kabuki Theater and about
80 others, who will be sent mainly to Hsinking
and Mukden. (April 29, A4)
The Hungarian pianist, Miss Lyly Kraus, who
as on a concert trip to the East Inlies when
the war broke out, is broadcasting over the
Batavia radio, and "assisting the Japanese
military authorities in uplifting the native
culture through her brilliant work".
(August 27, E9)
A marching song entitled Asia!s Reconstruction
was made puolic August 27 by the Japan-Asia
Construction League. The song can be sung in
the Japanese, Chinese, Thai and Malayan lan-
guages. (August 29, E5)
Five thousand copies of a textbook conteining
20 Japanese songs, to be used in Philippine
grammar schools, is being prepared with the
assistance of the Japanese military administra-
tion. The book is written in both Japanese
and Roman letters. (September 10, E7)
A party of Japanese which went to Java with
songs, dances and music to entertain imperial
troops, put on a special performance for
King Soro and 94 members of the imperial
family. (Radio Report on the Far East,
September 28, F4)
Manila radio says the local schools will
teach Japanese songs as soon as the teachers
are familiar with them. (Radio Report on the
Far East, November 10, 15)
On

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
-32
On October 25 Tokyo announced that a Greater
East Asia Theatrical and Culture Exhibition
would be held for three weeks in November under
the auspices of the Theatrical Museum of Waseda
University. It was described as an exhibit of
popular arts representing the history and customs
of all territories under Japanese control, as well
as India and Tibet. (Radio Report on the Far East,
November 10, B7)
The Japanese Administration in Java has selected,
from a number of new songs, the one song that will
commemorate officially the cooperation between the
Japanese and the Javanese. It was played for the
first time by the military band of the Japanese
Expeditionary Forces in Java. (Radio Report on
the Far East, November 10, F4)
Meiji Day celebration at Singapore on November 3
included a concert in Singapore auditorium. (Padio
Report on the Far East, November 10, D4)
The second Machukuoan Musical Conference is being
held by Russian violinists and vocalists on
November 15-17 at Hsinching. Elimination contests
are being held in Hsinching, Dairen, Mukden, and
other cities. Songs will be sung in both Russian
and Japanese. (November 16, G2)
The Philippines Philharmonic Orchestra was organized
in July. On November 28 the Manila Radio announced
the first concert would be held soon. (Radio Report
on the Far East, December 8, K8)
Rangoon Radio (Burma) stated on November 1l: "Actors,
like the press, can mould public opinion, and especially
so in Burma where the populace is extremely fond of the
theater. The Government wishes that every encourage-
ment should be given to actors, who were neglected by
the old regime. There will be suitable regulations
governing the acting profession....
(Radio Report
on the Far East, December 8, H3)
16.Art

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
-33
16. Art and Archeology
Art, like music, is not emphasized in the wartime
program of cultural relations, but the Japanese Army
apparently has permitted the use of military trans-
portation facilities for the movement of artists and
art objects, as the following news items indicate:
Fourteen Japanese artists have left for the
southern war front to gather material for pic-
tures to depict the war for the Japanese people
at home. An exhibition of their work will be
held December 8, 1942, in commemoration of the
first anniversary of the war in the Pacific and
"invitations will be sent to other Axis Nations."
(April 6)
The collection of paintings by Leonardo Da Vinci
which was shown at the San Francisco Fair, the
Chicago Art Institute, and the New York World's
Fair during 1939-1940, has arrived in Japan and
will be exhibited starting July 10. (June 10,
A12)
Premier Tojo visited the Leonardo Da Vinci art
exhibit in Tokyo July 30 and was welcomed by the
Italian Ambassador, Mario Indelli. (July 31, E7)
Manchukuo has sent 2oo art objects to Tokyo for a
Greater East Asia Art Exhibit to be held Sept-
ember 1-15. Japan has also sent to Manchukuo
for exhibition the 30 new works of the members
of the Imperial Artists Society. (Suggestions for
Overseas Propaganda, August 15, to the Far East-2)
A party of Japanese archeologists, headed by
Professor Hirade of Tokyo Imperial University,
is preparing to leave for Shantung Province in
China, to do excavation work. (Radio Report on
the Far East, Au ust 31, D3)
The Imperial Museum of Japan is sending to Ento
Gakuin of Indo-China 31 art objects including
Buddhist bronzes, No dance masks, ancient swords,
ceramics and masterpieces of the Tokugawa period.
This is part of an exchange arrangement whereby
Japan will receive historical relics from Ankor
Vat. (Radio Report on Far East, October 21, E4)
Ten

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
-34-
Ten leading Japanese sculptors are working on a statue
of soldiers in action, to be erected on' the summit of
Bukit Timah overlooking Singapore. The unveiling is
soheduled for the third anniversary of the fall of
Singapore (1944). (Radio Report on the Far East,
November 10, D4)
An investigation party of 13 Japanese artists and
painters under the leadership of Mr. Tetsuo Sugimoto
will spend about six months at Ankor Vat, site of
famous ruins in Indo-China, "in an attempt to make
a contribution to southern cultural policy of our
country. " (Radio Report on the Far East, November 10,
B8)
A statue of Sun Yat-sen was unveiled in Nanking on
November 12, the birthday of the late Dr. Sun.
(November 12, F11)
Art exhibits at Nanking, Peking, and Shanghai will
be held in March, 1943 under the auspices of the
Formative Arts League of Tokyo. Member artists
of the league will send 1,500 entries, and Chinese
organizations are expected to participate. (Novem-
ber 13, F8)
An exhibition of paintings by Japanese school children
has been held in Milan, Italy, under the auspices of the
Society of Friends of Japan. (November 16, H4)
A statue of Takayama, first Japanese Christian to go
to the Philippines about 3oo years ago, is to be
presented to Manila by the Philippine Military Adminis-
tration. The suggestion came from Prince Tokugawa.
(Weekly summary of November 25, p. 17)
A plan to send a collection of pictures (apparently
paintings) of Indo-China to Japan was broadcast
domestically in Japan. The selection committee, which
will choose the pictures on December l0-ll, includes
two Indo-Chinese officials, an officer of the Japanese
Embassy, and three Annamese artists. (Radio Report on
the Far East, December 8, J4)
17. Exhibitions

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.98)
~35
17. Exhibitions and Fairs.
Since the preparation of exhibitions, especially
on industrial subjects, requires considerable equip-
ment, it is not surprising that only two such projects
were reported during 1942.
An exhibition of 100 models of German airplanes
and some 600 photographs depicting the history of
German aviation was opened in Mitsukoshi Department
Store in Tokyo on November 3, and continues for
one week. (November 5, F6)
The Government of Indo-China has invited Japan
to participate in a fair to be held for one month
in Saigon City Park. The fair will cover 100,000
square meters, with 32 buildings. "Japan Hall"
in the center will cover 3,000 square meters and
will display Japanese models of airplanes, ships,
trains, streetcars; also art and inäustrial objects.
(Radio Report on the Far East, October 27, E4)
18. Technical

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
-36
18: Technical Aid to Health and Agriculture.
Japan recognizes that the exchange of scientific
information and personnel in the field of health and
agriculture is a useful demonstration of cultural relations.
A Far East Agricultural Experiment Station to study
the agricultural resources of Greater East Asia will
be established in Tokyo by October, 1942. (July 11,
D5)
An increase in the Philippine rice crop during the year
ending June 30, 1942, is attributed partially to the
experimental use of horai rice from Taiwan. (January 2,
1943, F10)
In the Philippines the College of Agriculture at the
University of the Philippines at Laguna is undertaking
100 research projects on crops and fsrm animals, and
has begun the experimental cultivation of cotton with a
Japanese corporation, Toyo Menka Kaisha, Ltd. The
college is also working on sugar cane as a source of
charcoal for trucks. (January 2, 1943, F10)
The Public Health Bureau of Malaya is organizing a
Hygiene Institute which will absorb the existing
Tropical Disease Research Institutes, and an Associa-
tion of Physicians to which all doctors will belong.
(Radio Report on the Far East, November 10, D3)
19. International

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
-37-
19. International Athletics.
Before the war three countries were noted for
the sending of athletic teams on unofficial junkets
as good will agents; these were Japan, the United
States and Finland. During the war Japan has had
less scope for this activity, but the following
reports are suggestive of the future:
The Physical Education Bureau of the Indo-
China Government invited Japanese athletes
to participate in a 4,l00 kilometer cycling
race around Indo-China during the period
December 2 to February 2. (Radio Report on
the Far East, December 8, J4)
A Friendship Sports Carnival, with 17,000
representatives from Japan, China, Manchukuo,
Thailand, the Philippines, Germany, Italy and
India, was held in Shanghai, according to a
broadcast on November 7. (The attendance
apparently refers largely to Shanghai residents)
(Radio Report on the Far East, November 24, D3)
Meiji Day celebrations in Singapore on November 3
included an athletic meet in which 2,000 school
children participated.
(Radio Report on the Far
East, November 10, D4)
The festival held in Batavia during September 3-19
included the All Java Youth Athletic Culture Meet.
(Radio Report on the Far East, September 28, F4)
20. Educating

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
-38-
20. Educating the Home Front in regard to
Other Nations.
The Japanese cultural program, like that of the
United States, seems to require further development in
the task of educating the home population in regard. to
the countries with which cultural relations are con-
ducted. Only three items on this subject were noted
in the 1942 radio report.
The Education Ministry in Tokyo has recommended
the following books for reading by Japanese to
acquaint themselves with Greater East Asia: Our
Friendly Nation, Manchukuo, by Shinkichiji Hashimoto,
Professor at Tokyo Imperial University; The Study
of China in the Far East, by Professor Ishida at
Nippon University; The History of Thailand, by
W. A. R. Wood; and The Retrospect:on of Meteorology
in the Far East, by Takematsu Okaca. (October 25,
F11)
A series of about 20 lectures in Tokyo on the results
of research regarding Greater East Asia will be given
by the Philosophy Society of the Japan Society for the
Promotion of Science on November 3-5. Topics include
the Agriculture of East Asia, the Fundamental Principles
of Japan, and the Life of Humanity Seen Overseas.
(November 5, F7)
During the three month period of October-December,
1942, Japanese periodicals contained 137 articles on
the countries of Greater East Asia. These included
27 on India, 20 on the East Indies, and 15 on the
Solomons and the greater Pacific area. The other
areas covered, in the order of the frequcncy of
articles, wero Indo-China, Australia, Thailand, Malay
and Burma. (Radio Rcport on the Far East, January 5,
1943, B4)
21. Treaties

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
-39
21. Treaties to Formalize Cultural Relations.
A cultural relations treaty between Japan and
Thailand, which was described by the Tokyo Radio as a
model for future treaties between Japan and other Asiatic
nations, was signed on October 28 and ratified December 21.
A commentator on the Tokyo Radio quoted "observers"
who believed that the cultural treaty would facilitate
the carrying out of the military alliance and the
economic agreement with Thailand. (Weekly report,
November 5, p. 36)
The full text of the cultural agreement, as
announced by the Japanese Board of Information and
reported by Domei, follows:
"His Majesty, the Emperor of Japan, and His
Majesty, the King of Thailand, being desirous
of contributing to the advancement of the culture
of East Asia, and at the same time strengthening
further the bond of friendship so happily existing
between the two countries by promoting more and
more cultural relations between the two countries,
and with mutual respect for the intrinsic features
of the culture of their respective countries and
in close collaboration, have resolved to conclude
a cultural agreement for that purpose, and have
appointed as their plenipotentiaries His Majesty
the Emperor of Japan, Masayuki Tani, Minister of
Foreign Affairs; His Majesty the King of Thailand;
Direck Chayanama, Ambassador Extraordinary and
Minister Plenipotentiary of Thailand to Japan,
who after having communicated to each other their
respective full powers found in due form and have
agreed upon the following articles:
Cultural Consolidation--"ARTICLE I. The high
contracting parties shall endeavor to deepen
the mutual knowledge and understanding between
the two countries by consolidating the foundation
of cultural relations between them and shall col-
laborate most closely for this purpose in all
cultural fields.
Convening of Confcrences--ARTICLE II. The high
contracting parties shall from time to time
convene cultural conferences for the purpose of
deliberation

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
-40
deliberation on the progress of the development
of the culture of the two countries and shall.
endeavor to extend assistance to conferences
organized for the said purpose.
Development of Institutions--"ARTICLE III. The
high contracting parties shall endeavor to establish,
maintain and develop institutions contributing to
the promotion of cuiture between the two countries
and shall mutually afford every possible facility
in respect thereof. The institutions referred to
in the preceding paragraph shall include other
scientific organizations, institutions, libraries,
museums, educational institutions and sanitary
institutions for charitable purposes.
Chairs of Culture--"ARTICLE IV. Each of the high con-
tracting parties shall give particular consideration
to the establishment, maintenanoe and development in
universities of the country of chairs on the culture
of the other. Each of the high coit racting parties
shall give particular consideration to periodical
exchange, sending or inviting professors, scholars
and specialists for the purpose of conducting courses
or delivering lectures on the culture of the two
countries. The high contracting parties shall mutually
afford every possible facility for the execution of the
provisions in the preceding three paragraphs.
Research Workers--"ARTICLE V. The high contracting
parties shall by mutual accord periodically exchange,
or shall send or invite research workers, students,
and pupils for the purpose of studying the culture
of the two countries. The:high contracting parties
shall endeavor to exchange, send or invite apprentice-
students and short-term students.
Scholarship Funds--"The high contracting parties shall
mutually afford every possible facility for the execution
of the provisions of the preceding two paragraphs and
shall give consideration to the establishment of scholar
ship funds. Each of the high contracting parties shall
afford similar facilities to scholars and specialists
of the other coming for the purpose of studying the
culture of its own country.
Authors and Artists--"ARTICLE VI. The high contracting
parties shall encourage the activities of authors, artists
and religionists who they deem.contributory to promotion
of

=== Page 44 === (confidence 1.00)
-41
of cultural relations between the two countries
and shall endeavor to exchange, send or invite
such persons.
Plays, Dances, Mucic--"The high contracting parties
shall encourage the performance of plays, dan ces
and music which they deem contributory to the
promotion of cultural relations between the two
countries and shall endeavor. to exchange, send
or invite individuals and parties engaged in
these pursuits.
Exchange of Publications--"ARTICLE VII. Each of
the high contracting parties shall endeavor to
supply the other, in as large quantities and as
frequently as possible, with publications,
cinematographic films, lantern slides, photographs,
gramaphone records and musical scores of its country
which it deems contributory to promoting the mutual
knowledge and understanding between the two coun-
tries, and the other shall give special consideration
as to their preservation, distribution, presentation
and exhibition so that these may be utilized effeo-
tively in its country.
Works of Art--"The high contracting parties shall
exchange lists, publications and works of art of
each country deemed to be worthy of being introduced
to the other and shall endeavor to introduce and
diffuse them by appropriate mean s.
Books and Exhibits--"The high contracting parties
shall endeavor to extend their necessary good
offices and assistance for the translation and
reproduction of the above-mentioned publications
and works of art. Each of the high contracting
parties shall endeavor to extend the collection
of books and exhibits concerning the other in
libraries and museums in its country and shall
afford evcry possible facility to nationals of the
other in regard to the utilization of these.
Organization of Exhibitions--"ARTICLE VIII. The
high contracting parties shall from time to time
organize exhibitions for the purpose of promoting
the mutual knowledge and understanding of sciences,
fine arts and industrial arts of the two countries
and shall endeavor to extend the necessary good
offices

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
-42-
offices and assistance in organizing exhibitions
held for such purpose.
Radio Broadcasts--"ARTICLE IX. Each of the high
contracting parties shall have radio organizations
in its country make periodical broadcasts to the
other and shall have them relay periodical broad-
casts from the other. Each of the high contracting
parties shall from time to time have radio organi-
zations in its country broadcast lectures, entertain-
ments and music concerning the culture of the other.
Athletic Contests--"ARTICLE X. The high contracting
parties shall endeavor to exchange, send or invite
parties of youth and juvenile athletic teams in order
to promote amicable intercourse between their nations.
The high contracting parties shall endeavor to exchange,
send or invite sight-seeing parties and educational
tour parties in order to promote the mutual knowledge
and understanding of the two countries. The high con-
tracting parties shall mutually afford every possible
facility for the execution of the provisions of the
preceding two paragraphs.
Cultural Institute--"ARTICLE XI. The high contractin
parties shall endeavor to establish a cultural institute
each in the capital of the other for the purpose of con-
tributin to the promotion of cultural relations between
the two countries and every possible facility to the
activities of said institutes.
Cultural Committee--"ARTICLE xII. The. high contracting
parties shall establish a cultural working committee in
Tokyo and Bangkok respectively in order to maintain
liaison between the two countries regarding the
execution of the provision of the present agreement.
Diplomatic authorities of the high contracting parties
shall decide by mutual accord details concerning the
organization and function of said committee.
Diplomatic Duties--"ARTICLE XIII. Diplomatic authori-
ties of the high contracting parties shall decide by
mutual accord details concerning the execution of the
provisions of the present agreement.
Ratification--"ARTICLE XIV. The present agreement
shall be ratified and the ratifications thereof shall
be exchanged at Bangkok as soon as possible. The
present agreement shall be enforced from the date
of

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
-43
of exchange of the ratification and shall remain
in force for 10 years from that date.
Year's Notice for Abrogation--"In case neither
of the high contracting parties shall have given
notice to the other one year prior to the
expiration of said 10-year period of its
intention to terminate the present agreement,
it shall continue in force until the expiration
of one year from the date on which either party
shall have given such notice.
Affixing of Seals--"In witness whereof the
respective Plenipotentiaries have signed the
present agreement and have hereunto affixed their
seals. Done in duplicate in the Japanese and Thai
languages in Tokyo this 28th day of the 10th month
in the 17th year of Showa, corresponding to the
28th day, 10th month, in the 2,485th year of
the Buddhist era. Signed. Masayuki Tani Direck
Chayanama." (December 22, F2-4)

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
MAR28194004
DERARTMENT OF STAT
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 25, 1940.
Yokohama's voluntary report of January
29, 1940, "American Citizens of Japanese Race
Residing in Japan".
In this report Consul Boyce brings to-
gether current information in regard to per-
sons of Japanese race in Japan who by reason
of birth in the United States possess American
citizenship. He divides them into two groups.
The first group is a larger group of whom no
accurate enumeration has ever been made, con-
sisting of persons brought to Japan at an
early age, having no American education, es-
sentially Japanese in everything but birth,
and showing no marked tendency to return to
the United States. These persons live mostly
in the Kobe consular district and Consul Boyce
says that their number has been estimated at
from 25,000 to 100,000. The second group
consists of persons of Japanese race born in
the United States who have lived in the United
States long enough to acquire through American
schools and American surroundings a definite
American character and have then returned to
Japan, generally for the purpose of schooling,
but often remaining after schooling is com-
pleted. Consul Boyce estimates this group at
about 1,500 and states that the persons com-
posing it are congregated mostly in Tokyo.
Most of the persons in this group have arrived
in Japan since 1933: Upper class Japanese
civilians were at first generally reluctant
to

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
to associate with the sons and daughters of
low born Japanese amigrants but more recently
the Japanese Government and various semi-
official organizations have recognized the
advantage of cultivating the good opinion of
these Americans of Japanese race for the pur-
pose of spreading in the United States a
favorable opinion of Japan and of Japanese
policy. Many ef such Americans of Japanese
race are employed, on account of language
ability and for other reasons, in propaganda
work of various kinds. The America-Japan
Society devotes special effort to activities
which will appeal to this group.
The Japanese Government realizes that
many Americans of Japanese parentage have the
thought of returning to Japan for employment,
and has taken steps by radio broadcasts and
other means to discourage such movement,
pointing out the difficulties which they must
face in Japan in finding the employment and
conditions which they seek.
Some times there is an effort in Japan
to convince Americans of Japanese race that
American culture is inferior and undesirable.
Enclosure 3 to the present despatch is an
example of a lecture of this model.
894.42711/7
CC
FE:CoVille:JPS
