894.20292 Military Affairs. Army. Army Posts. Fortifications. Defenses. Military Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., Military Activities Of Japan In Thailand Including Gathering Of Information. Espionage. Propaganda., March (File 1362)
ID: 894.20292-1362   Pages: 52   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.20292-military-affairs-army-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.94)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Domei Hews representative in Thailand named Ata (?).
Reported to be direct arent engaged in subversive
activities with view to Japanese intervention.
894.
O
2
6
2
m.jd
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
#39
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)
From
Dated March 18.1941
To
Military Attache
Confider
(Thai Indo-China)
(O'Pear)
File No. 894.20212/521
U. 8. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1-1540

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
MMserve
9
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 9, 1942
Reference underlying despatch dated
August 22, 1942 from former Minister to Thai-
land, Willys R. Peok, with which there 1s
enolosed a "Report on Japanese Wartime Propa-
ganda in Thailand" prepared under date
August 21, 1942 by Third Secretary of Legation
Harlan B. Clark.
The report in question is the result of a
careful study made by Mr. Clark of Japanese
propaganda that appeared in the Bangkok Timea,
a Japanese army-controlled newspaper; the report
also contains material obtained sub rosa from
conversations with Thai police guards, Chinese
servants, and others.
There given in tabular form on pages
12 and 13 of the report the general objectives
of Japanese propaganda in Thalland.
Mr. Clark feels that the Japanese have thus
far succeeded in their objective of keeping the
Thai public sufficiently quiescent to ensure the
succass of their major objeotive of using
Bangkok as a springboard for Aslatic independ-
ence campaigns, especially the Indian In-
dependence Movement. Bangkok has been the
fooal point of Japanese machinations for so-
called "independence movements" among outland
Burmese, Chinese and Indians; the greatest
attention has been given to the Indian movement.
Mr. Clark

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
Mr. Clark believes that 1t may be inferred
that liberal leaders in Thailand would welcome
a counter-propaganda campaign by the United
Nations. He comments that apparently no serious
restriotions have thus far been placed on the
use of short wave receivers in Thailand. He
believes that the chief question in any counter-
propaganda campaign would be how to utilize the
considerable evidence of Thailand's unhappy
position under the Japanese in such a way as
most successfully to discredit Japan's claims
concerning Thailand's whole-hearted cooperation
1n construoting the "New Order", and at the
same time to appeal to other Oriental peoples
at whom Japan's propaganda campaign 1s chiefly
directed, such as the Indians.
It is believed that CI/L will wish to send
a copy of the despatch and report in question
to OWI. It 1s thought that NE will be in-
terested in those sections of the report relat-
ing to Indian matters.
894.20292/2
RLS
FE:Smyth:MHP

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.94)
Former American Legation
tob,   142
at Bangkok, Thailand
on board M. S. Gripsholm
August 22, 1942
Subject: Transmitting Report on "Japanese Wartime
Propaganda inThailend"
PBivision of
DIVISION OF
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SPECIAL RESEARCH
AUG 2 8 1942
DEC/281942
Department of
ULPARTMENT OF STATE
Copy in TE(RLs)
894.20292/2
Sp.9.1942
STATE
1942
RLS
S
Far
Yos
No
Givael
5
26
For
I: U S
X
0.V.I.
MID. them ONI
R
21
C
COPESENT TO
DIVISION OF
AFTER
O.N.I.M.IP
RESEARCH
9-9-42
NOV 18194C
SEP 1 7 1942
UEPARTMENT OF STATE
The Honorable
DIVISION OF COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENTSTATE
NOV 17 1942
The Secretary of State,
DEC 4-1942
MR. PASVOLSKY
Washington.
cosir:
1942
have the honor to enclose a "Report on Japanese wartime
Propaganda in Thailand" dated August 21, 1942.
This report is the result of a careful study, made by
3rd Secretary and Vice Consul Harlan B. Clark, of Japanese propa-
ganda that appeared in the Bangkok Times, an English-language
newspaper controlled by the Japanese Army. The report also con-
tains material gleaned from sub rosa conversations with Thai
police

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
police guards, with chinese servants, with the swiss consul,
and others.
I venture to believe that appropriate persons in the Govern-
ment will find tlis analysis of Japanese propaganda of great value
in preparing counter-propaganda. The list of "General Objectives
of Japanese Iropaganda", beginning on page 12, is based on a
painstaking tabulation by Ir. Clark of innumerable passages in
different separate items. ir. Clark intended to collect these
items, for use as exhibits, but he was given anot her assignment,
on arrival at Lourenco i arques, an as unable to complete the
project. Lditing of the report, with necessary slight changes
in Ir. Clark's draft to moet this chnge in plan, was perfomed
Ly Secretary Chanman on board the . S. Gripsholm.
espectfully yours,
Willys R.Peeh,
Willys R.Peck
American iinister
Enclosure:
1. Report
RP/de

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
Voluntary.
NOT FOR PUBLICATION.
REPORT ON
JAPANESE WARTIME PROPAGANDA
IN THAILAND.
American Legation,
Bangkok, Thailand,
(Enroute to the United States
on the M.S. GRIPSHOLM),
August 21, 1942.
Prepared by:
Harlan B. Clark
3rd Secretary and Vice Consul.
Note:
This report was prepared by Mr.
Clark before he left the M.S.
ASAMA MARU at Lourenco Marques
for his new post at Capetown.
Confidential Fil
Approved by:
Wallina B. Perl.
Willfs R/ Peck
American Minister.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
7
The Propaganda Setting.
The capitulation of Tnailand with little or no struggle
on December 8, 194l, provided the Japanese with the opportunity
for which their pre-war activities had been preparing, namejy,
that of presenting to the world and particularly to the people
of India, Burma and other Asiatic countries the example of an
independent Oriental nation which had, apparently of its own free
will, thrown in its lot with Japan for the express purpose of
co-operating in the task of eliminating Anglo-American
influences from the Far East and constructing a so-called
"New Order in East Asia" in which only Asiatics should
participate, under the leadersnip of Ja, an. With its air force
grounded, its army immobilized and scattered, its strategic
centers and com.unication linos speedily occupied by strong
invasion forces, Thailand was in fact as abjectly conquered
as any other area under Japanese army control; yet for the
sake of the propaganda objective outlined above, from the start
Japan has spared no effort to maintain the fiction of Thailand's
independence and to this end has, amidst great pomp and fan-
fare, concluded numerous pacts and agreements and exchanged
good-will missions, including some of its most well-known
political figures, with this small and militarily insignifi-
cant country.
Political and Economic Factors.
In view of the propaganda appeal deriving from the
appearance of Thailand's voluntary cooperation, it was
obviously advantageous to Japan to disturb the organization
and personnel of the Thai Government as little as possible
and to utilize existing agencies in the country for the
dissemination of propaganda. Thus, even the most avowedly
pro-allied members of the Government were left unmolested
for

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
1
-2-
for some days until tney could quietly be transferred to
"safe" posts, anu then only unuer the guise of merited
promotions. The rest did not matter, save for the few at
the top who Japan knew could be counted on to carry out
the simple puppet roles to be as igned them. The Thai
leaders who have been willing participants in Japan's
propaganda drive in Thailand can be counted on tne fingers
of one hand, ana chief among them is Nai Vanich Pananonda,
Minister of State without portfolio, who even before the
war was branded as a traitor for his pro-Ja anese policy
and whose activities in September lu4l were the subject of
a semi-judicial investigution in response to widespread
popular demand. When last neard of in Jun 1942 he was in
Japan, some say because ne was afraid to return to Thailand.
Nai Vanich has been piesent at, und provaply tne cnief
participant in each of the numerous Tnai-Ja,anese conferences
in the last two years, including the Tokyo mediation
conference in the spring of ly4l, which set the stage for
Japan's further advance southward. Because of Nai Vanich's
close relationship with and evil influence over the Prime
Minister of Thailand, and because his traitorous connections
with Japan for personal gain have been condemned at home,
rendering him especially vulnerable to an Allied propaganda
attack, his activities are being made the subject of a
separate report.
The dominant feeling prevailing in Tnaiaand prior to
the outbreak of war, especially following the occupation
of Cochin China in July and August 194l, was fear and dislike
of Japan, and it can be safely said that this feeling has not
diminished. The economic condition of the country is chaotic,
with foreign and domestic trade practically at a standstill,
●
shortages

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
3
:
-3-
shortages developing in many vital necessities such as medicines,
cotton cloth, sugar, oii and replacement parts, the cost of
living much above the pre-war figure, and the country practically
bankrupt. The Baht-Yen parity agreement concluded on April 22,
1942, reduced the value of the Bant to that of the Yen, and its
yen value is undergoing steady further depression under Japanese
pressure. Japan extendeu a loan of Yen 200,000,000 to Thailand
in June, but this will only serve to fasten Japanese cnntrol
more firmly on the country and can not in itself relieve the
real problem, which i: a comnodity shortage that is already
bringing real hardshi, to the Thai people. There is every
reason to believe that these cendticns will steadily grow
Worse instead of better, in view of Ja, an's inability to
supply the needs of the nreas she has conquered, owing to
shortages of ran matericls anu sni, ping. Only a small fraction
of the Japanese shi ping wnich formerly called at Bangkok now
carries rice frem Thailand or brings finished goods in exchange,
and it is typical of the Ja anese policy that such goods as do
arrive are distributed through Japanese firms. In Thailand, as
elsewhere, Japan is again demonstrating its ineptitude as a
colonial power, and its greedy and high-handed policies
inevitably antagonize the business classes, especially. Not
only is import trade being retained by Japanese firms to the
exclusion of others, but Ja anese artisans are being brought
to Bangkok, so that such tradesas hair cutting are threatened
with becoming a Japanese monopoly.
It is said that one of the first ac ions of the Japanese
in Thailand was to remove 5,O00 American (Singer) sewing
machines with the promise that they would be replaced by
Japanese machines, and it is reliably reported that the Japanese
have refused the Thai Premier's request that Thailand be
furnished with needed machinery such as weaving looms,
apparently

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
apparently for the reasen tuat they de not want a weaving
industry to aevelop in Thailand, the output of which would
compete with Japanese cloth in the Thai market.
Official promouncements have expressed concern over the
economic stuation, andhave appealed to the people to suffer
their hardships with fortitude and thus to help the Premier
who, say the oiiici.I conmentators, cannot sleep at night
owing to "future worries". It nis been openly admitted tnat
conditions will not im rove until after the war, and the
people have been urged to produce domostic substitutes for
manufactured goods which can no longer be imported. At the
same time strenuous efforts are beint m de to divert he
attention of the people from their plignt through the
intensification of "culture cimpaigns" designed to "modernize"
the dress, hapits and customs of the Thai pe le, as well as
nationalistic appeals such as that to popularize the Thai
language through the revision o1 the alphabet, and the
"conquest" of part of the Shan States - which had already
been occupied by Japanese forces before the Tnai army was
ordered by the Japanese to march in. There has also been a
continual effort to assure the people that Japan will with-
draw her forces from Thailand after the war and that it now
respects, and will continue to respect, the independence of
Thailand. This is undoubtedly the point about which all
classes of people in Thailand entertain the greatest mis-
givings, and there is undoubtedly a widespread and growing
feeling that the only way in which Thailand's independence
can be completely restored is through an Allied victory.
Notwithstanding these causes of unrest, there is no
doubt that the Japanese have thus far succeeded in their
simple objective of keeping the Thai public sufficiently
quiescent to ensure the success of their major objective
of using Bangkok as a springboard for Asiatic independence
campaigns, especially the Indian Independence Movement.
Tha1

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
Thai newspapers are tradionally subservient, and they have
recently been placed more directly under the control of the
Government through a Press Act, the express intention of
which is to reduce the nunber of papers published. The
handful of weak or pro-Japanese leaders of the present puppet
Thai Government have sponsored the conferences and programs
of the Burmese, Nanking Cninese and Indian movements, and on
December 21, 1941, wen so far as to broadcast a radio appeal
to Chang Kai-shek to follow Thailand's example in co-operating
with Japan and olfering Tuailand's good offices to bring about
an understanding between Cnun king and Tokyo. Moreover,
despite the dislocation o1 Thailand's ec nomy and the fiscal
problems which confront the Tnai Government, there does not
seem to be any liklihood that people will starve and no one
will suffer frem cola in Thailand's tropical climate, as do
the miilions who labor unuer the privations of wartime
conditions in Eu ope. The Thai police have several times averred
to an officer of the Legation that a revolution may break out
at any time in Thailand, but it is difficult to believe that
the real leaders of liberal thought and pro-Allied sentiment
in Thailand will risk the plunge into inevitable extinction
which would follow any revoluntionary move in Thailand. Since
it is to these liberal leaders, such as L uang Pradist Manud-
harm, Luang Dhamrong Navasvast, L uang Kovid Aphaiwongse,
Nai Vilas Osathananda, and others who are unquestionably
pro-Allied and pro-democratic, that we must look for leader-
ship in the post-war period, and for quiet under-cover
propaganda such as they are now unquestionably carrying on,
it would be a tragedy for them to be encouraged or goaded to
turn openly against Japanese control at the present time.
Of interest in this connection is the report of Mr. Walter
Siegenthaler, Consul of Switzerland, when accompanying the
exchange party from Bangkok to Saigon on board the S.S.
VALAYA, that late in June 1942 he had received a message said
。

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.97)
1
-6-
to have been sent by a "very high official" of the Thai Govern-
ment, whom he believed to be Luang Pradist Manudharm, the
former Minister of Finance and foremost leader of the pro-
democratic group in Thailand, to tell the American authorities
that the radio propaganda from San Francisco was not well
liked in Thailand and was defeating its own ends. The reason
given was that such propaganda seemed to be directed against
the Thai people themselves, condemning them for suffering a
situation which in reality was not of their own making and
could not be changed by their efforts alone. The Thai people
felt that the Americans should understand their situation and
sympathize with them rather than condemn them. The report
also indicated that the radio propaganda from New Delhi (which
has been bitterly denounced by official radio commentators in
the Thai radio broadcasts) actually was better liked by the
same people who criticized the San Francisco broaccasts. This
report is passed on for what it is worth, but the Legation has
not had access to a radio and is therefore not in a position to
evaluate the report at the present time. Since it is known,
however, that the Thai radio commentators have criticized
British Broadcasting Company's attacks on the Premier, it is
interesting to note that the group referred to by the Swiss
Consul apparently did not object to propaganda attacks on
individual Thai government leaders.
Counter-Propaganda.
It may be inferred that liberal leaders in Thailand
would welcome a counter-propaganda campaign by the United
Nations, and they they anticipated that the radio would be
the most useful medium for such a campaign. According to
the most recent information available, no restrictions had
yet been placed on the uss of short wave receivers in Thai-
1 and, except that they should be tuned to a low volume
2

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
in order that foreign broadcasts should not be heard outside
the walls of the house in which the radio was being used, a
prohibition on listening to radio broadcasts from Chungking,
and warning to radio listeners that they must not spread
"sinful rumors", meaning apparently rports contrary to the
official Thai and Japanese versions of events, upon pain of
severe punishment. There are approximately ten thousand short
wave radio receivers in Thailand.
From conversations with numerous individuals, during the
period of their internment, Legation officials and other
Americans in Bangkok could not avoid th: conclusion that Allied
news reports were given wide currency in Thailand, at least in
the capital city, and th t the "bamboo wireless" (whispering
campaign) was an effective adjunct to the radio in spreading
the Allied reports. Probably the most active group in spread-
ing such propaganda is the Chinese, who form a considerable
minority in thecapital city. Each time a Chinese barber called
to cut the hair of the Chinese servants, he gave detailed
accounts of the war's progress, stressing Japanese difficulties
in such areas as Burma, where they were opposed by the Chinese,
and American naval victories. The first raid on Tokyo created
a sensation in Bangkok. The Chinese servants had many other
sources of news, and while many of the reports were obviously
false or exaggerated, it was clear that Allied propaganda was
actually reaching the classes for whom it was intended. The
Thai police officers who were in charge of the L egation guard
were either more reticent or more poorly informed of foreign
events than tradespeople and servants, but they very often
talked without restraint about conditions within the country,
always on the theme that no one in the Thai Government could
call his soul his owm and that the Japanese had forced the
Thai Government to declare war on the United States and
Great Britain,

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
.-8-
Great Britain, and that no one wanted to fight the United
States. One ofiicer declared that the Premier had to obey
the Japanese or be shot. Many reported and described in
detail incidents of altercations between Japanese soldiers
and Thai civilians which were daily occurrences.
The chief question in any consideration of a counter-
propaganda campaign is now to utilize tne considerable
evidence which is at hand of Thailand's unnappy position under
the heel of the conqueror, in such a way as most successfully
to discredit Japan's claims as to Thailand's whole-hearted
co-operation in constructing the "New Order" and at
the same
time to appeal to other Oriental peoples at whom Japan's
propaganda campaign is chiefly drected, such as the Indians.
As pointed out above, it is not believed that any useful
purpose is served in conaemnine the Thai people for yielding
to overwhelming force, although there is doubtless ample room
for condemning those people who have been called to account
in Thailand itself for traitorous dealings with the Japanese.
The aavantage of concentrating on the dissatisfaction of the
Thai people with their present lot seems obvious, while the
disadvantage of representing the Tha.. people as willing
participants in Japan's campaign seems equally obvicus, in
that this lends credibility to Japan's claims as to Thailand's
voluntary co-operation with her in the "Greater East Asia War".
The considerable expense and effort to which Japan has gone
to maintain the fiction of Thailand's independence and
voluntary co-operation might well be taken as the measure of
the value of a propaganda campaign to discredit these claims.
It is suggested that to present Thailand as but another suffering .
nation under the Japanese heel would be an effective means of
showing the people of India the disaster which surely follows
yielding to Japan, whether by conquest or by persuasion.
Japanese

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
Japanese External Propaganda for Independence Movements.
There is another aspect of Japanese propaganda which
merits greater development than is possible here. From
the beginning of the war Bangkok has been the focal point
of Japanese machinations for so-called independence movements
among outland Burmese, Chinese and Indians, culminating in
the large Indian conference held in Thailand's capital city
in June 1942, which was a gathering together of Indian repre-
sentatives from all important areas unaer Japanese control.
From articles appearing in the Bangkok Times it has been
possible to trace the movemonts organized by Japan among
these outland groups and to study the various lines of
propaganda used by Japan to foster unrest within tne countries
mentioned. It is interesting to note in this connection that
there were abundant traces of German propaganda work in these
campaigns, and it is reliably reported, for in tance, two
days after the Japanese invasion that a German Trans-Ocean
News Correspondent was made managing editor of the Bangkok
Times to handle this work, though no public announcement
has ever been made to this effect. A few months following
the outbreak of war an Indian was named editor of this paper.
The Burmese and Nanking Chinese movements in Bangkok
never seemed to made much headway, though both English and
vernacular Thai papers followed closely developments in Burma
during the early part of the Burma campaign, especially
featuring alleged British atrocities and tyrannical treatment
of the Burmese Government officials, who, according to the
newspaper reports, desired to co-operate with the Japanese in
their advance. According to an American national who had
access to vernacular Thai newspapers during her internment,
the latter gave accounts of Japanese difficulties in Burma
owing

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
'-10-
owing to the opposition of the natives, and reported that the
Japanese military authorities could not find enough capable
Burmese who were willing to co-operate to form a puppet govern-
ment. The Bangkok Times published almost no reports of the
developments in Burma from the time of the fall of Rangoon to
the fall of Mandalay (March 8 - May 1). A revelation of note
was made by Luang Vichitr Vadakar, the pro-Japanese Director of
the Fine Arts Department who in June 1942 was made Minister of
Foreign Affairs, when lie opened the first meeting of the "Free
Burma" leaders in Bangkok in December 1941. Luang Vichitr
boasted publicly that ne nad sent agents to Burma to work for
independence for two years prior to the outbreak of war, but
he regretted that it was not possible to accomplish much as
his agents nad to work under cuver!
Little was neard of the
Nanking movement in Bangkok foliowing the broadcast of the
Premier to Chang Kai-shek on December 26, 194l, referred to
above, and the first meeting of the pro-Nanking organization
on December 28, 1941.
From the start, however, by far the greatest attention
was given to the Indian Independence movement in Bangkok.
Two-column articles on tne Indian question were regularly
featured by the Bangkok Times, which, in the absence of an
Indian newspaper in Bangkok, was the chief propaganda organ
among the outland Indians in Thailand. Many of the articles
and news reports, significantly enough, bore Berlin datelines
or were unmistakably German in flavor. While it appears that
Japan did not find it useful or possible to use the Thailand
broadcasting station extensively for propaganda work abroad,
the Independence League of India gave regular weekly short-
wave broadcasts, and the official Thai radio commentators
frequently dealt with the subject of Indian independence.
hile it is not possible here to trace the various lines
of

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
of propaganda which were stressed, some features of the
propaganda campaign for Indian independence in Thailand
are worthy of special note. It was noticeable,for example,
that the division and mutual distrust which sunders national
groups on India itself was also present in the Bangkok movement.
Two organizations, the Independence League of India ana the
Indian National Council, were formed shortly after the out-
break of war, and it was severul months before tnese groups
could be persuaded to amalgamate, and then only on the under-
standing that the names of each of these organizations would
be retained jointly in tne now organization. These organiza-
tions force local merchants to contribute cunsiderable suns
of money ior the benefit of the Indian Independence program,
but it was freely rumored in Bangkok that the money went for
personal ends. Similar coments were muue by frienas of the
Indian watchmen at the Legation and Thai police officers
regarding he leaders of the Independence movement who were
brought to Bangkok by the Japanese for the conference in
June 1942. According to these persons, the Indian Leaders
were for the most part paid henchmen of Japan anu were known as
such among Bangkok Indians. It is reasonable to believe that
at least some of the leaders were inspired by patriotic
motives, and it is especially significant in this connection
that, according to the Swiss Consul and others, there was
great confusion in the conference of leaders in Jun: when plans
were discussed for ways and means of effecting complete indepen-
dence for India. Some of the leaders, it was said, would not
agree to assist Japan to invade India, and openly stated they
would not countenance such an invasion, the plain implication
being that they did not trust Japan's motives. Interest is
added to this report by the fact that Indian troops employed by
Japan in Thailand following the Malaya campaign were, according
to

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
to reliable reports, never used except in labor battalions,
since they could not be trusted in the actual military
operations. Many of these labor troops were seen working
in Bangkok. It is believed that good use could be made of
reports showing tne disunity of the Indian Independence
movements in Thailand, especially that springing from
distrust of Japan's motives.
General Objectives of Japanese Propaganda.
There is given below in tabular form tne general
objectives of Japanese propaganda in Thailand, as evidenced
by published material:
(1) Creation of tne Impression of Japanese Invincibility.
(a)
The claim that on lane and sea the Japanese have
destroyed Anglo-Americ n 1orces wherever they
have met them.
(b)
The Japanese nation is united and its armed
forces enjoy a vast moral superiority over the
enemy.
(c)
Japanese equipment, metnods and strategy are
vastly superior to those of the enemy.
(d)
Japan and its Axis allies are out-producing
the enemy and mastering him in economic warfare.
(2)
Conversely, Creation of the Impression that the Enemy
(usually referred to as "Anglo-America") is weak and
beaten.
(a)
The enemy armies and navies have been destroyed
and their merchant fleet decimated. They have
lost, or are losing, all important bases.
(b)
The enemy camp is torn by internal strife and
mutual recrimination. The morale of their people
is broken.
(c)
The enemy's equipment is outmoded, and its
production is hampered by lack of raw materials
and by labor difficulties.
(3) Justification of the "War of Greater East Asia".
(a)
Anglo-America forced the war on Japan. They
committed the first overt acts of war.
(b)
Japan's war aims and policies are just.
(1) Japan desires the liberation of the Asiatics
from Anglo-American domination, and the
establishment of a "Co-Prosperity Sphere"
in their place.
(ii) Japan has no quarrel with "neutrals" (especially
directed at Latin America and Russia).
(111)

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
(iii)
Japan is tolerant of all religions
(probably also directed at Latin America).
(1v)
Japan adheres strictly to international law -
the spirit of Bushido and the Samurai, which
is merciful to civilians, noncombatants and
the conquered enemy.
(v)
This is not a racial war.
(vi)
Asiatics show their approval of Japan's aims
through whole-hearted co-operation.
(4) Condemnation of Anglo-American War Aims and Policies.
(a)
Their policies of aggrandisement and exploitation
made war inevitable ("freezing" and embargos, etc.).
(b)
England, already beaten in Europe, was using her
subject peoples to prolong the war, with their
blood and treasure.
(c)
The United States, under President Roosevelt, knows
that the British Empire is doomed and is waging
war to seize its possessions as heir.
(i) Australia and New Zealand.
(ii)、 India.
(iii) Others.
(d)
Anglo-A merica violates International Law.
(i)
Atrocities against civilians, noncombatants
and Japanese prisoners - Pacific Coast
evacuation.
(ii)
Indiscriminate bombing.
(iii)
Sinking of hospital ships.
(1v)
The sccrched earth policy.
Typical samples of propaganda articles from the Bangkok
#
Times are appended to this report.
HBC/evc
NOTE: The foregoing report has been edited by
Mr. J. Holbrook Chapman, 2nd Secretary and Consul.
# The sets of propaganda articles attachdd to the triplicate.
quadruplicate and quintuplicate copies of the report are
incomplete.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.98)
Source: The Bangkok Times
Date: December 13, 1941.
THE RESULTS OF TLE PACIFIC BATTLE AT A GLANCE.
"According to the Japanese aval Headquarters, the following
figures were published tnis morning of the damage inflicted on the
U. S. Navy by the Japanese Navy and Air Force:-
WARSuIPS So..K.
8 attleships
1 Aircraft Carrier
2 Submarines
8 Small Snips
(Exceeding 100,000 tons in all).
'PLANES DSTROYD.
202 'Planes (At the ihilippines)
(Excluding those in nangars)
"The above figures snow that out of 250 planes in the Philippines,
the majority have alreay been destroyed by the Japanese Air Force.
"HARSHIPS BADLY DAAGED
4 Cruisers
"Damage to the Japanese Navy and Air Force
1 Patrol Ship Sunk
1 Light Cruiser (Slightly Damaged - in use)
Aircraft 9 Went in Power dive
7 Still to Return
"The news broadcasted by the U. S. Navy quarters saying that the
29,O00 ton Japanese Marship "HIRANUiA" was sunk is a great invention
to hide from the American nation a great defeat, for there does not
exist such a warship in the Japanese Navy."

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.98)
Source:
Bangkok Times
December 18, 1941.
ADITRAL YAAMOTO
Obtains World-wide
Fame
Iwaki, December 17.
"Tokyo: Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto, Commaner-
in-Chief or the Japanese conbined Fleet,
whose name was catapul ted out of oblivion
to a position or world-wide fame as Japan's
Fleet struck the brilliantly planned blows
at the outbreak of the Pacific hostilities,
is reported by the Yomiuri Shimbun as having
written on 24th January this year:- "I am
looking forward to dictating peace to the
United States at the White House in Washing-
ton asterisks if war breaks out."
The fifty-seven years old Admiral Yama-
moto writing to a close Tokyo friend, said:
"If war breaks out between Japan and the
United States I will not be content merely
with capturing Guam, the Phili pines and
occupying Hawaii. I am looking forward to
dictating peace to the United States aster-
isks. Admiral Yamamoto's ability to co-
ordinate the Japanese Naval and Air Force
is based on solid experience gained as
Commander of the first Naval Air Corps in
the Naval aviation Headcuarters in 1930
also as Chief of the Aviation Department
in 1938. -- Rengo Imperial Service.
11

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
Source: The Bangkok Times
Date: December 19, 1941.
"TERRIFIC BLOW GIVEN TO THE U.S. NAVY AT PEARL HARBOUR
Several Battleships Sunk: Japanese Troops
Landing in Hongkong
The American Navy
Details of the Destruction.
Iwaki, December 18.
"A bulletin issued at Tokyo states: The Navy section of the
Imperial fieadquarters announced that aerial observation disclosed
the annihilation of the United States Pacific Fleet as well as the
United States Air Force based on awaii.
"The Imperial Hign Command said that aerial photoraphs taken
by the Navy have disclosed that the United States casualties include
five battleships sunk, including one California calss, one Maryland
class, one Arizona class, one Utah class, another of an unidentified
class, also two heavy cruisers, and one oil tanker sunk.
"The High Command said the enemy naval ships damaged beyond
repair include respectively one ship of the California class, one
Maryland class, oneivevada class, also two light cruisers and two
destroyers.
"The High Command said a total of four hundred and fifty
United States aircraft were machine-gunned and set on fire, fourteen
'planes were shot down and many others damaged in the battle at
Hawaii.--Rengo Iiperial Service."

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
Source: The Bangkok Times
Date: December 19, 1941.
"THE THAI VIEW-POINT
AS SEEN IN TTE NEWSPAPERS
"The Sri Krung in its editorial today stated that the War in the
Pacific which Japan has now been fighting shows clearly that the
strength of Anglo-America is not as creat as propaganda in Thailand
had tried to make out. Everywhere the well disciplined Japanese
forces are beatint the Anglo-American forces.
"No doubt the Americans themselves would not like their country
to launch on an undertaking which will ultimately bring loss to
America. England, however, will suffer most. The economic strength
of England is derived from her colonies, most of which are in Asia.
The action of the Japanese could be described as cutting the life-
line of Britain.
"According to the news received here it is shown that Britain
will leave Burma and Malaya but will hold India. It is a well known
fact that India herself does not like to be under Britain any more
and we sincerely hope that all the Asiatic nations will stand to-
gether and get themselves rid of the European influence - more parti-
cularly the English influence.
"The duty of the Asiatics is to cooperate and drive away the
English. We have everything necessary for building our own economics.
Our continent is the most prosperous in all the five continents of
the world. Asia is for the Asiatics."

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
Source: The Bangkok Times
Date: December 20, 1941
" U.S. PACIFIO FSET
Comments on Destruction.
Iwaki, December 19.
"Tokyo. All the metropolitan mornin newspapers headlined
in bold type United States Pacific Fleet completely destroyed',
giving prominence to the sensgational announcement b. the Navy
section of the Imperial Headquarters regardin: the decisive victory
won by the Japanese aval aircraft on 8th December. At the same
time an oil paintine depictin Fearl Harbour debacle is shown with
Japanese planes swarming over t e American Fle t laying at anchor
in the Hawaiian iaval base.
"Emphasising the elation felt Ly the Japanese nation in the unique
achievement of the Japanese Haval forces in Hawaiian waters the Japan
Times and Advertiser in an editorial entitled "The greatest Naval
Victory in history" asserted that the sea battle in Hawaii hasa
added another chapter of glorious fame to the annals of the Imperial
Navy. The paper said: "It will go down in history as an event without
parallel a sea battle, so sweeping: in victory nd so decisive in
effect, will always be regarded as an achievement of heroism in which
hhe Japanese have surpassed themselves in a supreme moment of duty and
loyalty to their country."
"Reviewing the startling announcement which revealed the con-
clusiveness of the Japanese victory in Pearl Harbour the editorial
pointed out significantly that of the capital ships there remains
not a single one afloat or in a condition fit for action. It added
the decisive character of the sea battle in Hawaii 'is more decisive
than the caassic battle of the Japanese which brought the Imperial
Russian Navy to an end•."

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
December 22.
"JAPAN-THAILAND ALLIANCE SIGNED ON SUNDAY
Signiture takes Place in the Temple of the
Emerald Buddha
Object: Establishing a New Order in East Asia.
THE TERMS OF THE PACT
Joint Action as Regards Peace.
894-20292
"The Government of His Thai Majesty and that of His Imperial
Japanese Majesty firmly believing that the establishment of the New
Order in East Asia is the only way to bring prosperity in this sphere
and the conditdons indispensable to restore and reinforce the peace
of the world, and with the clear intention to get rid of ill influences
and other obstacles have concluded the following articles:
"1. An alliance is to be established between Japan and Thailand
on the basis that each will respect the independance and
sovereignty of the other.
2
"2. In case where either Japan or Thailand is engaged in an
armed conflict with an outside country or countries Thailand or Japan
will take side with the party to this Pact immediately and will accord
all assistance politically, economically and militarily.
"3. Details relative to the execution of article 2 will be
determined by common agreement between the competent authorites of
both Japan and Thailand.
44. In case Japan and Thailand are engaged in a common war Japan
and Thailand agree that each party will not conclude an armistice or
any peace treaty without the complete agreement of both parties.
"5. The present Pact will come into force on the date of signi-
ture. It will be in force for a perior of ten years. Both parties will
consult each other on the subject of renewing the said Pact before its
expiration.
"The Pact was in duplicate and was signed by H. E. Field-Marshal
Plaek Pibulasonggram, the Thai Premier, and Minister of Foreign Affairs,
and H. E. Mr. Teiji Tsubokami, the Japanese Ambassador."

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
Source: Bangkok Times
December 22, 1941.
THE PRIIE MINISTER'S SPEECH
H. E. the Premier said: Monsieur 1'Ambassadeur: - The
signing of the Pact of Alliance between Thailand and Japan,
which has just taken place, is a solemn occasion in the history
of the relations between our two countries. These relations
have long been cordial for many centuries and have become ever
closer and more intimate to this day, as is evidenced by the
most important fact of Japan's assistance in mediating for the
conclusion of the Convention of Peace at Tokyo, for which the
Thai people feel greatly thankful.
Now the international situation has so developed that the
time has come ror the estab ishment of a new order in East
Asia for the realization or prosperity in this sphere and for
restoration and strengthening of world peace. Japan and Thai-
land have therefore manifested their firm friendship by con-
cluding this alliance upon the basis of mutual respect of
their independence and sovereignty.
I am confident that this alliance will serve to bring
about peace and stable progress in this part of the world
and I would offer my con ratulctions to the Japanese Govern-
ment, to Your xcellency and the officials of the Embassy
for your collaboration in the conclusion of this Pact, and
also to all those who are assembled at the signature of this
Pact.
As this Pact of Alliance is a sacrec document arrange-
ments have been made for its fcrnal signature to take place
in this sacred tennle and I pray thet, by virtue of the Triple
Gems, our two allied countries may be blessed with the suc-
cesful and fruitful achievement of our asrirations for the
peace ani prosperity of East Asia.
11

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
Source:
Bangkok Times
December 24, 1941.
PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT
A Japanese Comment.
Iwaki, December 22.
Tokyo: The people of the United States vill turn
against President Roosevelt the Japan Times and Advertiser
predicted, when they come to realize that in plunging the
nation into war President Roosevelt had "Cooked the American
Goose".
The ultimate course of the  resent war is clear, the
paper said and the United States is doomed. It was pointed
out that the situation to-day is far different from the
favourable position which faced the United States when she
entered the Great War in 1917.
At the time the British, French, Italian and Russian
Armies were pressing Germany, the journal said, while Japan
was on the side of the Allies, 'So the americans had every
reason to feel optinistic, but the situation was reveresed
today.
The British have not a single soldier on European soil
and is hard pressed. The French are out of the picture.
Italy is fighting on the German side and Russians have been
nushed as far (as) back as Hoscow. Ja an has just crushed
the Pacific fleet of (the) United tates. Recalling its
prediction a few days ago that the British will soon be
cursing the President as 'that blested idiot' the paper
declared it hates to thin what the American people will
be soon calling their President. - Rengo Imperial Service."

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
December 24, 1942
" MASSACRES IN MINDANAO
Japan Indignant
Iwaki, December 22, 1941
Tokyo: As the metropolitan evening newspapers blazed forth
in indignation over the Foreign Office's disclosure this:morning
that seventyJapanese residents of Mindanao had been killed or
wounded as the result of the irresponsible conduct of the United
States Far Eastern forces the Chugai Shogyo special correspondent
from Shanghai sensationally reported that Japanese nationals have
been massacred and outraged by American troops as well as whites.
"The journal said the Japanese forces which effected a land-
ing in Mindanao on 2Oth December found that numbers of Japanese
labourers had been ruthlessly machine-gunned on hemp plantations
and fmrms while the Japanese employees, of American farms are
reported to have discovered shot.
"The Nichi Nichi Shimbun said 'American troops machine-gun
Japanese.' It is understood that eighteen thousand seven hundred
Japanese nationals are residing at Mindanao. The Japanese pioneers
moreover played a historic role in the development of Mindanao
as the centre of the famous Philippine hemp industry in the course
of the past forty years as well as the construction of public roads
and activity contributing to the general welfare of the island.--
Rengo Imperial Service."

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
December 24, 1941
"THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY
(paragraph from)
"H. E. the Minister of Justice then made a statement in the name of
the Government regarding the appointment of Nai Vanich Panananda. He
said Nai Vanich had been the subject of rumours recently. The story
originated from an anonymous letter addressed to the local papers as
well as to high Thai officials. In spite of its being an anonymous
letter since it concerned international politics the Government had
appointed a Committee to investigate and had issued a statement which
was known to all. The Minister wished to assure th House that what
Nai Vanioh had done was in accordance with the instructions and orders
issued to him. "

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
The Bangkok Times
December 29, 1941
"THE INDIAN VIEWPOINT
Asia Lust Join Against Anglo-America.
"From the members of the Indian Independent League (Thailand).
"First of all we offer our repeated prayers to Geru or Khudawand
Kareem, by whose nature the management of the whole world is kept in
proper order.
"We may be pardoned to express our thoughts in this funny and dirty
language like English, which is one of the causes of our slavery. No
merit is filled in the tonsue of these robbers.
"The English nation has cheated the whole world.
"We, the Asiatic nations, Indians, Thai, Chinese, Japanese, Malays,
Burmese and all the Mohammedan countries, must join together and help
Japan to destroy our common enemy, the British and foe of humanity.
"This is the only nation on the face of this earth, guilty of all
crimes and unrest in this world.
"They started to conquer the other simple minded and peaceful
Nations of Asia, by pretention of trade since last two centuries. Since
the (that) time they occupied the whole of lndia, they became very power-
ful and proud by the help of Indians.
"Afterwards they conquered many other clauries of Asia, that is,
Malaya, Burma, Hongkong, Arabia, Egypt, and many other countries in the
continent of Africa by the help of Indians.
"We are very grateful to the Japanese Emperor and the people who
have taken the whole responsibility of the poor .Asiatic nations on their
own shoulders, to quit them from the slavery of British tyrants.
"The Almighty God bestowed power and right sense to the Japanese
Emperor and his people by taking the sides of Germany and Italy for a
right cause to save the world from Anglo-Saxon slavery. The influence
of the Japanese Emperor is shining like a rising ßun from the east.
"The real cause of the last war and the present war is only the
British and the Indian slaves. By the help of India this nation has
acquired influence nearly in the whole world. Germany, Italy, and Japan
were the only nations against her will.
"Germany

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
"Germany is blameless. They declared war against Germany simply
because she was very strong. In the last Great War the Englishmen brought
the whole world against Germany. The conquered were forced to sing the
treaty of Versailles by Wilson, the U.S.A. President. Afterwards Germany
was annoyed at the point of the sword. And they say, they will allow
Germany to live. It means that Germany should remain upon the mercy
of England.
"Why, because Germany did not like to keep any connection with
England they again started this present war on Germany.
"Particularly to our Indian people, Indian Brothers!--The world
has got a new turn, the Goddess of Independence is knocking at your door.
Truth wins, not the falsehood. You must stand and fight for your free-
dom. The Almighty God has created the very powerful nations like Germany,
Japan and Italy, to destroy your bitterest enemy like a tyrannical
nation like British. Germany and Italy have conquered the whole contin-
ent of Europe completely, and Soviet Russia which was a very large
country was smashed in five months. It is very hard for her to rise
again. Don't listen to some of our Indian people who are traitors to
our country. We are not born to shed our blood for the maintenance of
British luxuries.
"Be sure that nothing can save the British in both worlds. Germany,
Japan and Italy will cut the roots of British cunning, which rests on
nothing.
only
"Now the/hope of Britain is Roosevelt, the U.S. A. President, and
her slaves. Neither U. S. A. nor the slaves can save the British.
The fate of England is sealed. Our duty is to follow Japan --(Amarnath
Singh), Amar Singh."

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.97)
Source:
Bangkok Times
December 29, 1941.
PERSONAL LESSAGE OF THE THAI PREIIER
To Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek.
(section)
CO-OPLRITICN ITH JPAN
11
As for my Goverient and myself as well as for the
Thai people, we have, arter our deternination to co-operate
with Japan, come to see more and more clearly thst the Japan-
ese nation is a highly cultured nation, with sincerely good
intentions towards fellow Asiatics. Anything to any other
effect comes fron propaganda for the benefit of British
peoples. The people of Burma and of India are vaking up.
'Asia for the Asiatics' is becoming the slogan and is
now serving as our life-impulse and hope. I would invite
Your Excellency to join with us in collaboration for re-
storing the honour of Asia. I earnestly in lore Your Excel-
lency to come to an understanding ith Japan. All misunder-
standings can be readjusted into mutuul good understanding
if we sacrifice our ovn purticular viev voint in considera-
tion for hunanity and common velfare.
Ly Government and I are at Your Excellency's disposal
for bringing about the jcinin of hands. and hearts between
Your Excelleney and the Japanese nation and I am confident
that if Your xcelleney vere now ninded to come to an agree-
ment, it is not impossible for an understindin to be effected.
I hope that Your micelluney will consider ny present appeal
with goodwill.
If this appeal of mine is found to contribute in however
little neasure to the buildine up of veace between Jhian and
Japan, I shall be gratified. I vculd repeat once again that
I make this appeal with a  ure conscience and that in taking
this action, I have not been under the influence or inducement
of anyone. Iy only inducenent is the slogan 'Asia for the
Asiatics'. Please accept the assurance of y hihest con-
sideration. -- (Signed) Pibulasonggram.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
The Bangkok Times
Date: Jan. 26 (P. 1)
"THAILAND DECLARES WAR AGAINST ANGLO*AMERICA
Sequel to Continuous Agression
Charged with Breaking Promises, Vindictiveness
and Invasion of Territory
ASSURANCE GIVEN TO BRITISH SUBJECTS.
(section)
11
"ACTS OF AGRESSION.
"Owing to the fact that there has been a declaration of war
between Thailand and Great Britain and the United States His Majesty's
Government makes the following statement:
"From the time England extended her Empire towards the East,
Thailand has been subject to suppression and oppression from time
to time. England has taken her territories and has divided the
Thai race and did everything to weaken Thailand. In economics and
finance England had taken the control of the life-line of Thailand
in every way. Every Government of Thailand had to comply with the
requirements of England all along. Still England tried to block
the important trades of the Thai, for example Rice, Minerals, Rubber
and Teak.
"As regards the United States of America Thailand also received
the same treatment similar to England. Thai nationals wéialrecall
that in the most recent incident between Thailand and Indochina, the
United States of America tried in every way to discourage the Thai
policy. The United States of America confiscated shipments of aero-
planes and other weapons ordered from her and which had been paid
for.
"In the history it could be found that when Thailand was in dis-
pute with France in the year R.S. 1l2 Thailand asked America to inter-
vene for the sake of safety and humanity but America did not take
heed of such an appeal leaving Thailand opened to maltreatment."

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
Source: Bangkok Times
Larch 23, 1942.
IN CORREGIDOR
Morale at Low Ebb
A Pathetic Letter
Tokyo, March 22.
11
Hanila: (Ly a Domei correspondent:) That the morale
of the Anericun forces in the besieged Corregidor fortress
has been sinkin gradually owing to the continuous Japanese
bombings is revealed in a letter written by the American
Lieutenant-Colonel Wilson, adressed to his wife in the
United States which was found anon: the contents of the
mailbag seized by the Japanese Arny recently.
Intendine te escape his own : ilitary censors Lt.-Colonel
Wilson mailed the letter aduressed to the United States via
Australia. The letter suys "iy deurest wife: it is already
four months since we separated. During that time, as you
already know, Hanila and bavao have fallen and now we are
leading a terrible life in Corregidor Fortress. Since January
every day we receive furious Japanese bombings. It's a wonder
I am alive and am able to write to you.
"It seens as if the J& anese operations are being directed
by God himself. Attucks cone like a hurricane....food in
Corregidor is running out and the water shortage is also
looming. All of us have come to fear and hate the war. As
food daily decreases we are continually giving out hopeless
sighs.
"Even the Filipino soldiers are gradually beginning to
disobey our orders and daily filipino and American soldiers
are fighting among themselves in all places. My dearest,
in this melanocholy atmosphere the only light I see are you
and the children. I have thought of deserting but it's use-
less. I wish peace comes soon, so that I can see your face
again. Please give my regards to father in New York." --
Domei News Service.

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.98)
Source: The Bangkok Times
Date: April 21, 1942.
"TATLAND'S SHARE IN CONSTRUCTING
NET CRDR
"nai Vanich tates Lis Views
"'People tand nited Behind Their Leader.'
Tokyo, April 21.
"Tokyo: Thailand's determination to contribute her share to-
ward the construction of the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere
was stressed by Nai Vanich Panananda, the Thai acting Minister for
Finance, who has been in Tokyo since 7th April in his capacity as
leader of the Thai Economic Mission to Japan, in an exclusive inter-
view with the Domei.
"We have sided with Japan in this war in line with our policy
to liberate Asia for the Asiatics. It is with this goal before us
that we have gladly taken upon ourselves sacrifices which participa-
tion in the war are necessarily demanding of our people,' the visit-
ing Thai Statesman declared.
"Dismissing the idea that there was anything inconsistent or un-
expected or that there was any element of speculation or opportunism
in Thailand's conclusion of a Pact of Alliance with Japan, when the
war broke out Nai Vanich emphasized this step was the logical out-
come of the policy which the Thai Government had been adhering to
for several years.
"'We acted according with our own conviction and determination to
do our duty as a member in the family of Asiatic nations when we took
up arms with our Japanese Ally on the first day of the war, to win
or die with her" he said.
GOVERNLENT SUPPORTED.
"He said 'In this determination the Thai people stand united
behind their leaders as was demonstrated in the spontaneous mass
rallies staged throughout the country pledging the whole-hearted
support of the Government's decision. At the present moment our
armed forces are standing shoulder to shoulder with the Japanese
forces in fighting our common foes.
"'But long before this war broke out Thailand honestly revealed
her true spirit and actively assisted Japan in preparing for this
war. We have readily supplied Japan with considerable quantities of
rubger, tin and other strategically important raw materials when she
was cut off from the richest sources of supply of these materials by
the economic blockade of the so-called A. B. C. D. encirclement.
"'Now as the Japanese Ally we are willing to do our utmost in
contributing our share towards the construction of Greater East Asia.
*ADMS OF

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
AIMS OF THE MISSION.
"Defining the aims of the present Thai Mission to Japan the Thai
leader stressed the necessity of jointly studying the most suitable
measures to be taken towards the creation of an efficient system of
war economy for the mutual good of the two Allied nations in order to
plan and build up the maximum economic strength.
"He stated: - *While looking to our Japanese Ally for the help
we need at the same.time we are well prepared to supply what Japan
needs. If our two nations will thus co-operate as one, in principle
and in spirit, the best results will be achieved.*
"JAPAN-THAI TRADE.
"Reviewing the Japan-Thailand trade relations, Nai Vanich revealed
that the economic relatione have never been so close as during the past
few years when the volume of trade carried on between Japan and Thai-
land rose from the annual average of 20 million yen to the unprecedented
height of 80 million yen per annum.
"The chief items in Thailand's exports to Japan, included goods
which Japan needed but was no longer able to secure from the A.B.C.D.
Powers, such as rice, rubber, hides, tungsten, cotton, etc., while
Thailand imported chiefly machinery, tools, textile, rubber goods,
Nai Vanich stated, adding that in future not only the trade volume
should be increased but also the scope of goods covered would be widened.
"THAILAND'S ECONOMIC LIFE.
" 'It must not be forgotten that Thailand's economic life has long
been dependent on imports from third countries from which she was com-
pletely cut off when the War in Greater East Asia was declared,' he
said. 'We hope Japan will do what she can to fill this gap. Thai in-
dustry is now mostly in need of steel and chemicals.
" 'But while looking up to Japan for assistance in these fields,
we do not forget that Japan, thus far, has been shouldering the greatest
burden in fighting for Greater East Asic and that we should try to ease
this burden by looking after our own needs as much as we can.
" 'Thai industry has been making very favourable progress during
the past two or three years and as necessity is the mother of invention
I am sure the needs of the present time will prove the greatest stimulus
to the development of our industry. Thailand is a small country but
working hand in hand with Japan we are striving to achieve the utmost
for the prosperity of Greater East Asia,' Nai Vanich concluded.--Domei
News Service."

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
Source: Bangkok Times
May 15, 1942.
LOCAL INDIAN POLITICAL ORGANISATIONS
Merged into one Body.
n
The two political organisations of the Indians,
namely the Indian National Council and the Independence
League of India have now merged into one body working
for the freedom of India. The unification of these
two bodies was placed under one Executive to deal with
the various problems in Thailand.
The members of the Indian National Council and
the Independence League of India showed the utmost
co-operation to the efforts of Colonel Gill a very
senior Indian officer of the army in alaya to effect
the unity. Colonel Gill and his associates were at home
to the members of the two organisations at a Tea-Party
at 4 p.m. on the 13th Iiay at the Rajdhani Hotel, where
other members of the Indian co munity in Bangkok were
also present.
The announcement of the amalgamation was received
with great enthusiasm. In announcing the result of his
efforts and his colleagues, Col. Gill in a neat and short
speech stressed on the importance of the unison of all
Indian thoughts and ideas for the good of the motherland.
At a time when India looked to be the crux of all inter-
national problems, the Colonel concluded, it was high
time that Indians stood for a comon goal i.e. complete
freedom of India from any alien rule and that they found
unity amidst diversity.
Mr. Usman Khan, a delegate from Shanghai for the
ensuing Indian conference at Bangkok, also spoke. Then
Baba Amar Singh, on behalf of the League and L.r. Debnath
Das on behalf of the Council assured that the cooperation
thus achieved would be maintained at any cost. Messrs.
Sevekram, Kundan Singh, Pandit Raghunath, and Hakim
Mirza were amongst the many who offered congratulations
on the amalgamation. The function ended at six in the
afternoon.
Some of the salient points of the agreement is as
follows:
The I.N.C. and The I.L.I. will be merged into one
organization henceforth to be known as the "I.N.C. and
I.L.I." This name may be changed later, should that be
deemed necessary in the interest of the movement. The
office of this combined organization will be located at
462 Siphya Road, Bangkok, and the new name board will
be put up forthwith.
Baba

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Baba Amar Singh being veteran and staunch patriot
and one of the pioneers of the Freedom movement for
Hindustan, will henceforth be a Patron of the new organi-
zation. Important matters regarding the movement will be
shown to and discussed with him and his valuable advice
will be duly appreciated.
Mr. Debnath Das will be the General Secretary of the
new organization and as such will be responsible for all
executive and administrative arrangements including such
things as broadcasts, publications, and propaganda etc. "
Britain Criticised.
Berlin, May 15.
"Bangkok: The spokesman of Indian National Council here
in Thursday night's radio adaress sharply criticized the
attempts of British propaganda to minimize the successes
of the German forces in the Peninsula of Kerch. He warn-
ed Indians of falling into the traps of British propaganda.
The Axis Powers were friendly disposed towards India and
were ready to support India's national policy.- Trans-
Ocean Service."
Conference of Leaders
Berlin, May 15.
"Bangkok: A conference of the leaders of the Free India
organization from all parts of Eastern Asia will be open-
ed here in the course of next week. Delegates will be
present from Japan, Shanghai, the Philippines, Malaya and
Burma and the first arrivals are expected this Saturday.-
Trans-Ocean Service."

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
Source:
Bangkok Times
May 20, 1942.
INCITING BAD FEELINGS
11
The gist of the talk by the two local Radio
commentators last niglit was to the effect that
various kinds of news had emanated from the enemies
of Thailand. They were of a kind that went to in-
cite bad feelings between the Thai and the Japanese
so that these two nations might take up arms to fight
one another.
Such incitement owed its origin to the British
principally, but the Thai people were not stupid
enough to listen to such propaganda. However, tripe
of this nature only served to cement closer the bond
of friendship between the Thai and the Japanese.
Since the very beginning the Thai realized their
inability to avoid being involved in war. They also
realized that the Japanese and the Thai never had oc-
casion to quarrel with one another during the long
term of their friendship, and when the war in Greater
East Asia broke out all the Japanese requested of the
Thai was permission for their troops to pass through
the country in order to fight the enemy of Asia.
They never used to interfere with the activities
of this country in any way. It was just the reverse
with Britain which used to cheat the Thai in regard
to a portion of their territory.
The Thai and the Japanese are real comrades of
war and once the cessation of hostilities results in
their favour they will procced to share sone of the
territorial gains together. As for the British, in
the first instance, after inciting the Thai to fight
the Japanese they just left the Thai to their own
fate.
The British should take it from the Thai that
the Thai and the Japanese will have no cause to break
away from one another at all and are fully determined
to continue to be corrades for all time.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.98)
Source: Bangkok Times
May 21, 1942.
THE JAPAN-THAI ALLIANCE
The theme chosen by the two local Radio com-
mentators last night was the Japan-Thai Alliance.
They commenced by pointing out that when the Japan-
ese arrived in this country they came as friends and
not as disturbers of the peace of the Thai in any way.
Since the 8th December last the 3ritish influence had
faded away from this country which then became more
intimately attached in a bond of friendship with Japan.
WThereas Japan is bent on giving a helping hand to
fellow Asiatics the British, for their part, only in-
terested themselves in levelling abuse at everyone and
showed more interest in acquiring new territory without
taking into consideration the econonic welfare of the
indigenous people.
The British never for a moment believed that it
was possible for Japan to attack Shcnanto as she did,
and at the sane tiue they wanted to get off cheaply
by depending on the Thai to undertake the defence of
that island on their behalf. The Thai, as a matter
of fact, were ever ready to fight any foe, but not the
Japanese people who belonged to the same yellow race
like themselves.
Both Japan and Thailand had been bullied and op-
pressed by Britain in the past and deceived by her as
well. All the Thai are well aware of the fact that
in the past Japan had assisted tren to ficht against
their enemy. Since then the tvo countries had been
depending on each other in various ways. hereas the
yellov r ce is still largely independent this cannot
be said of the dark people who were enslaved by the
British after their territory had been first wrested
from them.
Japan is a Great Power, and the Thai realize the
fact that if her Ally should stu ible and fall the yellow
race will follov. in the wake of the coloured people
and become slaves of the wiite men for ever more. That
being so it was only well anú  roper that the Thai
should side with the Japanese in the great work of try-
ing to relieve Asia fron the yoke of oppression.
The commentators concluded by recalling the fact
of the great contempt shown for the Thai and other
coloured people who had travelled in England, and the
United States of Anerica. The white men showed their
distinct dislike for them as though they did not belong
to the same level.
11

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
Source: Bangkok Times
May 22, 1942.
JAPANESE INTERNEES IN THE
UNITED STATES
Reported Cheerful and Happy
Getting Ready to Leave for Mozambique.
Tokyo, Mav 20.
An Asahi Shimbun special dispatch from Madrid
reported that more than one thousand Japanese inter-
nees, including Diplomatic officials in America, as
well as South American countries, excluding Brazil,
who assembled at the White Sulphur Springs, West
Virginia, will shortly leave on board a Swedish ves-
sel for Mozambizue, Portuguese South Africa, to be
exchanged for Allied nationals in Japan and the East
asiatic continent. It is saiu the date for the ex-
change is scheduled ior 15th July. It said the basic
arrangements vrere reached through the good offices of
the Spanish Government. - Domei News Service.
ENVOYS CHEERFUL
Tokyo, ay 20.
Tokyo: The Nichi Nichi Shimbun Lisbon correspond-
ent said it is learned from the German and Italian
Diplomats who returned on 16th Iay from the United
States that the Japanese Ambassador, Admiral Kichisa-
buro Nomura, and the special Envoy, Mr. Saburo Kurusu,
are both healthy and cheerful in the detention camp at
White Sulphur Springs, Virginia.
The correspondent quoted Herr Hans Thomsen, the
German Minister in Washington, as saying before the
Axis Diplomats' departure from America the Diplomats
of Germany, Italy and Japan held a farewell party at
the hotel in the White Sulphur Springs.
Her Thomsen said: "The Japanese, Germans and
Italians gathered at the party spoke in their own
languages and gave cheers of "Banzai, for their
countries. The Ambassador, Admiral Nomura, made a
speech and his splendid attitude was very much ad-
mired by all those present."
The Nichi Nichi Shimbun correspondent further
quoted Herr Thomsen as saying that the outbreak of
the present war is making life extremely painful for
the Americans. President Roosevelt's administration
believed that as long as America confined her actions
to economic pressure Japan would never rise in arms.
The Roosevelt administration is confused over meeting
the increasing domestic problems and are daily adopting
new counter measures. - DomeiNews Service.

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.98)
Source:
Bangkok Times
May 23, 1942.
AXIS NATIONALS IN AIERICA
Get Bad Treatment
Tokyo, May 22.
1n
Tokyo: The Asahi Shimbun Berlin correspondent
in a radiophone conversation with the Tokyo Head-
quarters quoted returnin German Diplomats from the
United States as sayins the treatment by the American
authorities of Axis Nationals in the current war was
far worse than it was in the first world war.
On the basis of the interview given by repatri-
ated Germans in yesterday morning's Berlin newspapers,
the correspondent said the merican authorities had
arrested even wonen and chiluren of Axis nationali-
ties and were at  resent detaining them in quarters
under surveillance of Jews and Negroes. He said the
detention camps were generally situated in New York,
Ellis Island and Long Island vhere the internees in-
clude, educators, lerchants and newspapermen.
He said Axis Di lonats on the other hand are in-
terned at White Sulphur Springs in West Virginia.
Apparently the Axis newspapernen generally were at
first interned et Ellis Island. Living conditions
there were extrenely unhealthful, he said, pointing
out that, for instance three hunared beds were placed
in one room with poor ventilation and inadequate
toilet facilities.
One German newspaper correspondent was pulled
off from a train vhile en route to New York and grill-
ed by the authorities for eleven hours after which he
was sent to llis Island. There he discovered that
Japanese, Italian, Bulgarians, and Hungarians as well
as other Axis nationals of ali classes were interned.
The German correspcndent in question was finger-print-
ed, photographed and treated as if he were a criminal
convicted of murder. The treatment at Long Island was
even worse and the Gernan correspondents there are
describing it as "hell".
The latest indications are that the newspaper
correspondents after the completion of their investi-
gation had been trensferred to West Virginia where
those charged with political or espionage activities
and Diplomats are interned. The internees at llis
Island and Long Island were permitted to read the
New York Times from which they obtained news of the
war.
He said the American people were dumbfounded
by the Japanese forces' astounding victory at Pearl
Harbor

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Harbor and since then had been depressed by the Japanese
continuous military successes. Axis nationals, too, had
been deeply impressed by the might of the Japanese armed
forces.
In the wake of the Pearl Harbor debacle the Ameri-
cans were determined about making war preparations; how-
ever in the face of continued setbacks by the Allied.
forces they have lost their enthusiasm about war. As
an example he pointed out that the sale of war bonds
which totalled one milliard dollars in January had
dropped to seven hundred million dollars in February
and to five hundred million dollars in April.
President Roosevelt armament expansion programme
has become a mere "bluff" adding that what makes the
situation worse is that this rogramme slows up all
other industries causing insoluble complications. The
Asahi Shimbun correspondent quoted a German returning
economic expert as saying the American authorities
are fearing most an inflation crisis. - Domei News
Service.

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.98)
Source: Bangkok Times
May 23, 1942.
AN UNFAIR ATTACK
n
As regards the unfair attack made by the British
Broadcasting Corporation censuring this country and
its leader in various directions, after due considera-
tion, they are found to be puerile. As they appeared
to relish the idea of repeating such attacks day in and
day out it was time that this country took steps to
contradict such vile statements and should not remain
satisfied to allow them to persist in more attacks.
The bulk of the accusation against the Thai people
at the present juncture appears to lie in the fact that
they are greatly annoyed with us for joining our great
Ally, the Japanese, to fight against them. What they
would have liked to see was our choosing to side with
them, instead, and abandoning our comrades.
We should indeed like to point out that as we
have come to an agreement with the Japanese to fight
shoulder to shoulder with them we are resolved to do
so and will not allow ourselves to be persuaded to
side with the British in any manner. The Japanose
have abided by the terms of the Pact by not molesting
us or interfering with our affairs at all and prove
themselves to be very staunch friends. It is there-
for well that tie Thai shoulā continue to fight by
the side of fellow Asiatics in the Asiatic cause.
Before the 8th December last the British Prime
Minister sent a letter to the Thai Premier asking
Thailand to put up a defence against the Japanese think-
ing that the Thai would be stupid enough to follow in
the lead of the poor Australians and the Indians.
Winston Churchill was keenly disappointed when
the Thais refused to be led to such a trap - to be
killed in order that Britain should survive. It was
indeed well that the Thai as a yellow race had refused
to walk in the wake of the poor coloured people in
order to avoid their fate of being slaves to their
white masters.
After the war the Thai could look forward to re-
gaining their territory lost to the British in the
past. The Thai should be proud of the wise move they
had taken since the 8th of December, as it had been a
matter of plain sailing for them ali along in a sea of
tranquillity.
n

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
Source:
Bangkok Times
May 25, 1942.
OVER THE RADIO
THAILAND RPLIES TO B.B.C.
11
In their broadcast on Saturday the two local
Radio comentators repeated the fact that four days
ago they had replied to the attack of the B.B.C. point-
ing out that the reason which noved Thailand to join
in the war was for her won benefit and also for that
of the whole yellow race. Thailand could not be ex-
pected to fi ht the Japunese who belong to the yellow
race like thenselves.
In reply to the Delhi broadcasting station which
had attacked the Thai station, the conmentators said
that everybody knows that the belhi stution is the
mouthpiece of the B.B.c. itself ana its voice is there-
fore a British anu not an Indian one. It is really be-
yond their comprehension why the British should inter-
fere in Asiatic affairs.
Their proper place should be in Europe, but the
reason they became annoyed was because of their lust
for territory and hence when they becane aware of the
earnestness of Japan to releuse Inaia from their yoke
and to liberate the poor Indians they were beside them-
selves with great anger. The cormentators recalled the
fact that Britain sent the King of Burma into exile till
his death after which they confiscated his palace and
converted the same into barracks for their troops.
The comentators next alluded to the case of the
Sawbwa of Kengtung whose death, they said, was due to
the British. Thereafter the British had recourse to
put one of their own people to succeed him as Sawbwa.
Such action could not be helā to be right.
Since the Boxe Rising the Chinese had nursed a
hatred against the British; but the latter and the
Americans took advantage o the Sino-Japanese war to
incite them to offer greater resistance to the Japanese
by making unfulfilled pronises. The Chinese have not
yet come to know the Japanese properly, but in due course
of time, when they do, they would undoubtedly become
friendly with them and both woulā then join hands to
drive the British out of Asia for good. Even iahatma
Gandha has no use for the British and has tola them
very often to get out.
The New Delhi station will do better to shift
its activities to the British Isles so that when the
Germans invade Britain it will have an opportunity of
meeting death in the midst of friends. Do not inter-
fere with Thailand's affairs as the Thais are not un-
der anyone's influence. As a matter of fact we are
building up our own future," concluded the commenta-
tors.
SUNDAY'S

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
SUNDAY'S COIMMENTS.
Last night the comentators alluded to the fact
that the British derived much benefit in the Great War
through propaganda. But in the present war such propa-
ganda stuff does not have much effect on the Asiatics
who are already greatly disgusted with it. The Asiatics
evince a love for the truth more than anything else. And
the reason Ir. Roosevelt's Envoy had to retrace his steps
from India was because he was disappointed to find that
the Indians refused to listen to him.
What the Indians should now proceed to do is to
drive the Delhi broadcasting station away from their
country as all alon it has proved to be like a poison-
ous snake. The Thai, as a whole, are fighting by the
side of the Japanese because they are well aware of
the sincerity or the Japanese in trying to release the
Asiatics from the yoke of foreign oppression.
The New Delhi station is determined to incite the
Thai to fight against one another and it also wishes
to incite the Chinese to continue fighting the Japanese.
It also would very much like to see the Chinese go to
Malaya in order to take away the different occupations
of the indigenous people, and  hen famine comes it will
next proceed to incite the Burmese, Indians, Malays and
Chinese to wage a battle enong thenselves vhile the British
would remain in the background.
The commentators then referred to a Penang incident.
When that island was about to fall to the Japanese the
British adopted the cunning ruse of giving the air alert
sinal which caused the twonspeople to rush into air raid
shelters. They then took the oprortunity to evacuate
their own people by neans of chins which were already
to sail. The poor Penane people were then left to their
owm fate!

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
Source: Bangkok Times
June 9, 1942.
The Nichinichi Shimbun declaring
that the nation cannot but be surprised
by the swift change said the influence
of Japan's fighting services now estends
from the Western Coast of the United
States, to Australia in the South and to
Madagascar and beyond the Indian Ocean -
unprecedented operations of combined land,
sea and air forces. It declared that
nothing can stop the Japanese fighting
services once they are deternined to march
forward.
It asserted that the Japanese columns,
without rest, will advance to every corner
of the globe until Japan achieves its final
goal of annihilation of Britain and the
United States. The Nichi Nichi Shimbun
stressed the close relations existing among
Japan, Germany and Italy and asserted that
all attempts of the enemy to estrange the
Axis Powers never will succeed in causing
friction among the three nations. The
three will go forward hand in hand until
complete victory in the present war is won
and a new era of law and order established
in the world the paper declared."

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
Source: Bangkok Ti
June 19,1
THE TERMS OF THE AGREEMENT
Tokyo, June 19
Tokyo: The Ministry of Finance announced the terms
of the agreement for Yen two hundred million loan to
Thailand which Mr. Yuki, Governor of the Bank of Japan and
the Thai Minister without Portfolio, Nai Vanich Panananda,
the Chief of the Thai Economic Mission to Japan, signed
yesterday as follows:
First, the Bank of Japan agrees to extend to the Thai
Ministry of Finance a loan totalling yen two hundred million
within a period of five years from the date of the present
agreement.
Second, the loans acquired by the Thai Ministry of
Finance shall be recorded in a special deposit account in
Bank of Japan in the name of the Thai Ministry of Finance.
Third, the Thai Ministry of Finance may purchase gold
from the Bank of Japan drawing from the foregoing special
deposit accounts.
Fourth, the interest for the loans is payable at the
rate of 3.5 per cent per annum.
Fifth, the loan thus acquired is payable in one sum or
in installments within a period of five years from the present
agreement.
Sixth, the terms whereunder the present loan may be made
or the terms whereunder the present loan may be returned may
be extended by consultation between the Bank of Japan and the
Thai Ministry of Finance. - Domei News Service.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
Source:
The Bangkok Times
"WILL INDIA BE TURNED INTO
AN ALTRICAN COLONY?
"The following article was broadcast on the local radio yester-
day under the auspices of the In ian National Council:
"During the negotiations of Sir Stafford Cripps in India, the
American press and American Official uarters made no secret thet in
case Indian leaders should not uccept the Rritish proposals, America
would step in and take in India wh: tever measures she thought necessary.
"Roosevelt has stood by nis promise. ithin ten days from
Cripps' departure from India, Roosevelt's special delegate in India,
Colonel Louis Johnson, announced in Delhi that American troops are
already stationed in India, and that more American troops will arrive
there.
"At the same time, a special American technical mission is busy
talking with Government Officials in Delhi und will sortly tour Indian
production centers with a view to turning India into a supply basis for
the Allied armies.
"Roosevelt's intention to take over the British Empire from the
collapsing Britain and to exploit it for the benefit of the United
States is obvious, and is the one and only reason for Roosevelt's war
mongering policy. Roosevelt started his plan with inciting the European
nations to go to war.
"When Britain's Navy was already weakened by the losses sustained
from Azis warships and 'planes, Roosevelt made the first step towards
the realization of his goal by handing over to the British Government
fifty old American destroyers in return for numerous military bases.
Since then, Roosevelt's policy of taking over the British Empire has
made further progress.
"Canada has been torn away from Britain and has become a dependency
of the United States. Australia has also been forced to drift away more
and more from Britain and to get in closer touch with Washington. A
few months ago, the first American troops landed in Australia, and to-
day the American Commander-in-Chief General MacArthur with his staff is
practically governing Australia through a military dictatorahip.
"As all other parts of the British Empire in Asia have already been
conquered by the Japanese Forces, Roosevelt is now turning his attention
towards the jewel of the British Empire, India. It may be that Roosevelt
was after all not so much disappointed with the failure of Cripps'
mission, since it gave him an excuse to play a leading rôle in Indian
affairs.
"COLONEL JOHNSON'S MESSAGE
"According to All India Radio, Colonel Johnson, Roosevelt's
apecial delegate in India, read out on Tuesday last in Delhi a special
message

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
message of President Roosevelt to the Indian people. In this message,
President Roosevelt stresses that he is longing to see India become
a great and mighty nation, and that he has for this purpose sent his
envoy, Colonel Johnson, to Delhi. Roosevelt then continues to say
that the American administration in Cuba and in the Philippines fur-
nishes the best proof of America's good intentions towards India.
"In order to avaoid suspicion amongst the Indian people, President
Roosevelt then adds tat the United States have no intention of ex-
ploiting India's riches, since the United States are themselves one
of the richest countries in the vorld.
"In our opinion, Roosevelt's message to the Indian people is a very
badly camouflaged attempt at seizing India as an Ame ican Colony. The
fact that Roosevelt thought it necessary to advertise the Anerican ad-
ministration of Cuba and the Philippines is very much characteristic
for Roosevelt's real intentions. The Indian people will no doubt con-
sider a comparison between I dia and Cuba as a gross insult.
"How does Roosevelt dare to put India, a nation of four hundred
millions with a tradition, a Listory and a culture datin back thousands
of years in line with. an odl C tral A erican Island inhabited by a
handful of mixed peop e without uny culturel b ck round? Such an
Island may be in need of Aerican Adminintration, and it is uite possible
that tnis Administration has one the ubans some good.
"Roosevelt should lowever remember that India was a United Empire
with one of the i hest cultures, religions and philosophies as well
as an effective system of administration many centuries before the Uni-
ted States came into existence. Indians are not in need of any system
of American administration or civilization, but it may be that they could
teach their culture and relicion to the American people.
U. S. TROCPS D: TIHDLA.
"Now  oosevelt has already bucted up his I perialistic designe on
India with .merican troops. Anerican commanders are already active in
India, and the Anerican carrisons in India are to be further reinforced.
The Indian people are unarmed and helpless, and they have no effective
weapons against American tanks, guns and aeroplanes.
"The Indian people will however resist American occupation and
American exploitation in the same way as they have resisted British
Domination: Not with arms, but with their spirit. Britain has ruled over
India by crude military forcd for many decades, but she has never been
able to conquer the heart of the Indian people. America will suffer the
same spiritual defeat.
"We think that in addition to this spiritual defeat, she will
probably suffer a military one, not through the Indian people, but thr
through the Japanese Forces. Roosevelt has spoken of friendship to-
wards the Indian people, but in reality he is dragging India into the
war by oreating American military bases in India.
"The American designs on India have been proved by yet another
fact: The dispateh to India of an American technical mission. Roosevelt
mnts to do a thorough job. Not only should Americams administrate
India and Amerioan,soldiers ccupy India, but at the same time the
Indien industry shoald be "Amerieanized" and India's resources exploite

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.98)
7
for the benefit of American capitalists. America wants to rule over
India politically, militarily and economically.
"Anglo-American propaganda is today busy warning Indians against
a Japanese invasion. any Indian leaders have fallen victims to this
propaganda and are likewise requesting their countrymen to concentrate
on the defence of India and uard against a Japanese invasion.
"India has been invaded by Britain some two hundred years ago,
and the British invaders have not yet left the country. India has
been invaded for the second time now by American troops. Thy do the
Indian people not stand up against t.is invasion? America is as much
a foreign power to India as Japan.
"America's designs on India are certainly not those of protection
and friendship, but of Imperialism and exploitation. We would therefore
like to warn our countrymen aainst this invasion of India by American
troops and against the obscure activities of Roosevelt's agent, Colonel
Johnson in Delhi, as well as against the "Anericanization" of the Indian
industry by Grady's technical mission.
"The Indian people h ve repeatedly expressed their desire to fight
any foreign ag;ressor. Indians must therefore stand up and fight against
the Anerican invasion of India, otherwise India will be turned into an
American Colony beforc long."
--00000--

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.98)
October 21, 1942
CONFIDENTIAL -
My dear Mr. Stanley:
The Department has received a despatch dated
August 22, 1942 from the former Amerioan Minister to
894.20292/2
Thailand, concerning Japanese wartime propagands in
Thailand.
As of interest to you a copy 1s enelosed herewith.
An enelosure to this deepatoh entitled "Report on Jap-
anese Wartime Propaganda in Thailand" is also inoluded
for your information.
Sincerely youre,
John M. Begg
Asslstant Chier
Division of Cultural Relations
Enclosure:
2
Despateh dated August 22,
1942 from former American
Minister to Thailand, and
enclosure.
Edward Stanley,
Care of Mrs. Helen Barnes,
Office of War Information,
itial
Fourth and Independencs Avenue, N.
27
Washington, D. O.
PS/VMC
CI/L:HW:HMW:NNN
10/5,6,19,20/42
FE
RLS
894
